Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



fe/ 










03C38 



■-•■/■ 



I 
f 



/; --7 



t 






r^ 



i; 



■ K: 



t ' * f * 






Cookery 




As Practiced in 1894 by the Women of the 
South Church, St. Johnsbury, Vt. 



KDITKI) BY 

MRS, C. IL MERRILL. < 

I 



ooo 

**/T is the concretion of u good deal of thought, emotion^ and toil 

of brain and hand,** said Kenyon "/ kindled a great 

fire within my mind, and threw in the material — as Aaron threw 
the gold into the furnace — and in the midmost heat up rose Tins, 
as you see it/' — Makiilk Faun. 

OOO 



PKKSS or 

Cl. 3n, Bton» ft Clotnpang, 

ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 

1894. 



THJi XK . .o;-.L' 
PUBLIC MDHAHY 

513269B 

AOTOR, LKNOX AM) 
TlLnHN FOiMiATiONS 
» lJi4:< L 



4^ 



^^%i^ ^m^ 







4? 



'''Not that a new book is wanted,' said The 
Disae^reeablc Man ; * there are too many as it is, 
and not people enough to dust them.'*' 

— Ships That Pass in the Night. 

** Some things being always in use get no dust 

nor spidet weits," observed The Agreeable Woman. 

— IIousBS That Have Good Thinos. 



O 



"In ever new elaboration and addition this 
is the combined work of all thinkers — how changed 
from shape to shape by each thinker's contribution, 
till it got to full final shape, no man will now 
ever know." 

— CAKI.YI.E. 



PREFACE. 



The compilers of this little volume h.'ivini^ been thoroughly 
indoctrinated in the inspiration of the Scriptures do not doubt 
the wisdom of Solomon who has told us tlifit '* there is no new 
thing under the sun." Hut we are all wiUing to concede that 
some things are less old thnn other things. We believe that 
the concocting of an appetizing dish has been dear to the hcfirt 
of woman and the stomach of man since the time when Adam 
so unhesitatingly partook of thesomethingnew offered him by 
our mother Eve. Familiar objects often gain a new interest in 
our eyes by a mere re-adjustment of position ; and the deft- 
handed cook will, with the same ingredients differently ])ro- 
portionedj tickle our palpates with that variety which is the 
very spice of life. 

And so, although gastronomic science can by no means be 
considered to be in its infancy, it may yet be believed to be 
lingering in the region of middle life, and while anything per- 
taining to an increase of comfort in our daily living is of al- 
most universal interest, we feel that we may hazard our very 
modest venture without an accompanying apology. 

As we turn the subsecjuent pages and look at the famiHfir 
names we shall undoubtedly be reminded of many pleasant 
hours when we h«'ive enjoyed each other's hos])it«'dity ; perhaps 



more particularly of the times when we have enlarged our 
V)()r(lers and spread our feast under the friendly roof of the 
old South Chureh and given a true and hearty welcome to the 
friends who gathered around our hearthstone. 

We have endeavored, in our recipes, to give something that 
shall be of interest to each one who shall turn to these pages, 
hoping for a little new light on an old subject. An exchange 
of ideas will surely please our elder housekee[)ers and if, to 
them, some minute directions may seem needless, perhaps they 
will kindh' think of our younger cooks who may come to our 
pages for real instruction ; and also look back to the time 
when they themselves would have been but little benefitted by 
the old-time problematic recipe: 

"Sn/ie and l)read. mix just eiioiii^h 
Salt and pepper quantum sufT/' 

And if any perplexed housekeeper shall gain from Cookery 
Craft any new inspiration or fresh courage that shall assist her 
in providing a tempting menu for those whom she delights to 
serve, the aim of this little book will have been realized, as to 
share our good things with ourfriends, and lend a hel[)ing hand 
to each other has ever been the motto of the 

Ladies of the South CurKCii. 



CONTENTS. 



I'A(JK. 

Preface, ....... -, 

Bread, Breakfast and Tea Cakes, - - 1) 

Sandwiches, ---.-. 24 

I)()U(;nNUTS AND Fried Cakes, - - - 27 

Eggs, .--.-... 31 

Salads, -------- 35 

Soups, ----.-.. 41 

Fish and Oysters, - - - - - - 45 

Meats, ----..-. 54 

PoiTLTRV AND (tAME, -..-.. (;() 

Fntrees, ---.-.. 0(5 

Vegetadles, - - - - - - - 77 

Pies and Pastry, --.... s() 

Puddings and Sauces, - - - - - - 98 

Creams, Siierhets, Fancy Dishes, - - - 1(H) 

Cookies and Small Cakes, - - - - - 112 

Cake, .-.--.-. 120 

Icings and Confectionery, - - - . . 137 

Drinks, Hot and Cold, - . . . . 147 

Jellies, - - - - - - . 151 

Preserving and Canning, - . - . ir^o 

Pickles, Sweet and Sour, - . . . . 1(53 

For the Sick, - - - - - . 170 

Timely Sugc.estions, - - - - - - 177 

Cookery Craft, Miscellaneously Considered, - 187 



T 



IIH Woman'j* Home Mimilonary Society of the 
South Chtirch, iHnuin^ "Cookkmy Ckaft," wiwh 
Mpcc'ially to thnnk \l\nn Maktiia B. Kohh for 
I her illuMtrationw, l*rofc*i«or S. II, IJicackktt for 
i" hin picture of the Church, and Mm, C. K. I'lJi- 
NBY and Dr. Buwauu T. Faikisankh for their 
careful and efficient Nelectionn of quotntionfl. 



Bread, BreakfAvST and Tea CakEvS. 



MRS. Henry G. Ely. 




HOP YEAST. 

'• My nature is subdued to whfit it works in." 

Shakespeare (Sonnet.) 



1 tablcspoonful salt. 
% cup sugar. 



3 potatoes. 
8 or 10 hops. 
1 quart boiling water. 

Put hops and salt into a bowl and pour over them thcboil- 
ing water. Peel and grate the potatoes, strain the liquid over 
them and add sugar. Set on the stove a few minutes to thicken. 
When milk warm stir in 1 coffee cup of good yeast, cover 
and put in a warm place to rise. Mrs. Ahijaii Smith. 

HOP YEAST No. 2. 

4 medium sized potatoes. V2 cup sugar. 
V^ cup flour. 1 quart water. 

1 tablcspoonful salt. 1 cup home-made yeast or V2 

1 tablcspoonful hops. yeast cake in 1 cup water. 

Peel the potatoes and let them stand in cold water one hour. 

Boil, then drain and mash them fine find sift in the salt, sugar 

2 



10 COOKERY CRAFT. 



and flour. Mix all together thoroughly. Put the hops into a 
saucepan with a quart of cold water, set on stove and bring to 
a boil and strain the liquid while boiling hot upon the potatoes, 
mixing well until smooth. Leave it to cool and then add yeast. 
Cover closely and let rise until next day. 

WHITE BREAD No. 1. 

"Truth crushed to earth shall rise a<ra\n /'— Bryant. 

'* But a batch o' bread that hain't Hz once, ain't goin' 
to rise ag'in 
An' it's just money throw'd away to put theemptins 
in." —James Russell Lowell. 

1 quart milk. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

M cup lard. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

V4 cup butter. V2 cake yeast dissolved in a lit- 

tle water. 
Mix all this together, sift in one quart of Pillsbury's flour, 
stir well and let stand over night. In the morning add V2 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a little hot water and flour enough 
to make a thick batter. Let it rise again and then chop it, 
the longer the better. Knead well with as little flour as pos- 
sible ; make into loaves. Let it rise a little and bake in a slow 
oven. Mrs. A. H. McLkod. 

WHITE BREAD No. 2. 

1 quart new milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 cakes compressed yeast. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Scald the milk in the morning and let it stand until 
lukewarm. Dissolve the yeast in Vi cup warm water and 
stir into the milk, sugar and salt. Add the flour (Washburn's 
Gold Medal) gradually, beating well all the time. When you 
have beaten in sufllicient flour, take it upon the bread board 
and knead until it is smooth and elastic. Return to the bowl, 
cover and place it in the cool oven to rise. When it has 
doubled its size, take it upon the board again, sha])e it into 
loaves, return to the cool oven to rise again. When sufficiently 



BREAD. 11 



raised, bake in as hot an oven as you can without burning, 

from one-half to three-quarters of an hour according to size of 

loaf. 

Mrs. Geo. M. Howe. 

Married, at Black Lake, L. I., February 7, 1828, 
James Anderson to Miss Ann Bread. 

** He'll be contented with Ann Bread, 
And won't have an}' bul-her. " 

WHITE BREAD No. 3. 

1 quart milk. 1 scant teaspoonful salt. 

% cake compressed yeast. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Virup butter and lard mixed. 

Warm the milk in cold weather, add the melted shorten- 
ing. Dissolve yeast in a little warm water and add with salt 
and sugar. Use good bread flour and stir in gradually all 
that can be mixed in with spoon, the stifler the dough the 
better. Let stand in warm place over night. In the morning 
stir down and let rise again. When very light take out 
enough for a loaf upon board, knead and chop with chopping 
knife perhaps tenr minutes, using as little flour as possible, 
cut in halves and mold each little loaf a minute or two longer. 
Place these two loaves in one tin with a little melted butter 
rubbed between, proceed in the same way with remainder of 
dough. This quantity should make three small loaves. 
When well risen bake one hour in an oven quite hot at first. 

A suggestion coming from a number of sources has been 
acted upon and found to be valuable, viz., the use of the knife, 
entirely, instead of spoon, in stirring or cutting in the flour at 
night and cutting down in morning, also cutting and chop- 
ping the dough on the board, using the hands only to place 
the dough in tins. This insures fine-grained and moist bread. 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER BREAD. 

1 quart flour. A pinch of salt. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. New milk. 



12 COOKERY CRAFT, 



Sift the baking powder into the flour, add salt and enough 
milk to mould lightly. Bake in hot oven. Very niee made in 
the same way with Franklin flour with the addition of two 
tablespoonfuls sugar. Mrs. Wm. Matthews. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

2 cups graham flour. Mj cup cream. 

2 cups sour milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

% cup dark molasses. Scant teaspoonful soda. 

Makes a brick loaf tin 9 in. by 4 by 3. Oven should be 
hot at first, kept moderate so that the bread can bake slowly 
for at least an hour. Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 

RAISED GRAHAM BREAD. • 

1 pint new milk. Vz cup molasses. 

1 pint flour (scant). 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 pint graham (sifted). 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

V2 cake yeast, dissolved in V2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup warm milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

Stir together at night the milk, flour, graham and yeast. 
Let stand in warm place to rise. In the morning add the mo- 
lasses, sugar, butter, salt, and soda dissolved in a little hot 
water. Add enough more sifted graham meal to make a thick 
batter. Pour into one large or two small tins and bake one 
hour. Caroline D. Ely. 

Delicious bread can be made from this rule by adding in 
the morning equal parts of rye and graham, stirring a little 
stifler than when using the graham alone. 

BROWN BREAD. 

1 cup sour milk. 1 teaspoonful soda in 

1 cup molasses. V2 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoonful melted lard. Equal parts of rye and Indian 

A pinch of salt. meal. 

Make a little thicker than griddle cakes. Steam four 
hours. Set in moderate oven ten minutes. 

Mrs. W. D. Flint. 



BRHAD. 13 



BROWN BREAD No. 2. 

2 cups sour milk. % cup of molasses. 

1 cup Indian meal. 1 full teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups rye meal. A pinch of salt. 

Steam at least three hours. 

Mrs. Z. a. Richardson. 

rai5ed brown bread. 

2 cups Indian meal. 1 even teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup graham meal. 1 even teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup rye meal. 2V^ cups lukewarm milk. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup hop yeast or Vi yeast cake 

1 tablespoonful flour. in one cup of milk. 

Sift the rye and graham, sift the salt with Indian meal, 
add the soda and the flour, first sifting the soda twice with the 
flour. Mix all together, then stir in the molasses. Add the 
milk gradually. Last of all add yeast and stir thoroughly 
fiwc or six minutes. Do not have the water in steamer boiling 
until the bread has been in twenty-five minutes, but lukewarm, 
then boil hard for four hours and a half. Grease the tin well, 
also cover. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

•• I leave you the bread : Bight thousand loaves: 
You can do what youple.'ise withit." — Cyrus Hamlin. 

RAI5ED BISCUIT. 

1 pint sweet milk. Ms cup butter. 

1 cup yeast. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix thoroughly and stir in flour enough to make a stiff 
batter and let rise over night. In the morning mold and i)ut 
in bowl to rise again. Dip the closed hand in flour and plunge 
in dough to the bottom of bowl; when this is risen even over 
the top mold again. Cut off pieces of proper size and mold 
into biscuit, place close together in tin and bake quickly. 

Buns can be made same as biscuit by adding 1 cup sugar 
and 14 cup currants at night. Just before putting into the 



74 COOKERY CRAFT. 



oven, brush over with water, cand when taken out of cjven, with 
sweetened milk. Mrs. L. C. Haklow. 

The >»rent strnii^lt' of life is first for bread; then 
butter on the bread ; and Inst suf^ar on the bulter. 
— Good Housekeeping. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

1 pint milk. 1 small eup yeast or V2 yeast eake. 

Flour to make a stiff hatter. I^et rise over night. In the 
morning add 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful butter and flour to make 
it stiff enough to knead. Let it rise, then knead again to 
make it fine and white. Roll out, eut with round eutter, brush 
with milk and fold over; |)ut them in a pan and eover very 
close. Set in a warm place until they are very light; bake 
quickly and you will have delicious rolls. 

S. A. Mathkr. 

PARKER H0U5E ROLLS. 

2 quarts flour. 2 tablespoonfuls lard. 
1 pint milk. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Ms cup yeast. 

Rub the lard into the flour, then put in all the other ingred- 
iejits and do not stir. Let stand until morning; mix and 
knead, then stand until noon, mix and knead again and cut 
into shape and stand in tins until tea time. Bake in a hot 
oven. Mrs. Rebecca P. I^virhanks. 

RAI5ED WHITE ROLLS. 

1 pint new milk. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

V2 cake compressed yeast. Mj cup butter and lard mixed. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. 

When wanted for tea, start in the morning, dissolving 
yeast in a little warm water, melting butter and lard and add- 
ing, with sugar and salt, to the milk, which should be warmed 
in cold weather. Stir in as much flour as can be well mixed in 
with spoon and set in a warm place to rise. When light, take 
out upon board and mold and chop with chopping knife at 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 15 

least ten minutes, then replace in bowl to rise again. When 
light, repeat this process of molding and chopping; cut oflt' 
pieces of the dough the size of a large egg and mold under the 
hand into a long narrow roll and lay in dripping pan. Have 
a dish of melted butter and lard, equal parts, into which dip 
each roll on the side next to its neighbor. Use care to fill the 
pan just full. Brush over the top with melted butter. Let 
rise until very light and bake in hot oven. These rolls are 
equally good when taken from bread dough in the morning 
(made according to rule No. 3), adding V4 cup of butter and 
lard mixed. Warm the shortening a little and chop and mold 
it into dough. Mrs. IIknrv G. Ely. 

CREAM TARTAR BISCUIT. 

1 quart flour. V2 cup butter, or butter and 
4 heaping teaspoonfuls Royal lard, 

baking powder. \ scant teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. I scant pint of sweet milk. 

Sift baking powder through flour, rub in the shortening 
with sugar and salt. Mix with the milk as soft as can be 
handled, roll out and cut with biscuit cutter, lay close 
together in dripping pan and bake in a very hot oven about 
twenty minutes. 

EQQ BI5CUIT. 

Make the dough as for cream tartar biscuit only richer, 
and the last thing add the whites of 2 or 3 eggs beaten stift'. 
Light as feathers. S. A. Mather. 

MUFFINS No. 1. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 cups flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 cup milk. or 1 of soda and 2 of cream 

1 Qgg. of tartar. 

Beat butter and sugar together, add the beaten Qgg and 
beat again, then milk, then flour. Put in baking powder the 



16 COOKERY CRAFT. 



last thing and give a good beating. Bake in muffin rings or 
gem pans, in a quick oven, about twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Charles H. Merrill. 

MUFFINS No. 2. 

1 quart flour. Vi cup yeast or H yeast cake in 

Va: cup butter. ^4 cup water. 

V4 cup sugar. 1 pint sweet milk. 

1 Q^g. A pinch of salt. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add Qy:,g well beaten. 
To the quart of flour add the salt and yeast, then the sugar, 
butter, and Qjs^f:^^ with milk. Let it rise over night. In the 
morning stir down, fill the muffin tins half full, let rise until light 
and bake in rather quick oven. If wanted for tea set to rise in 
the morning. Mrs. Grace Knight Robertson. 

MUFFINS No. 3. 

*^ ^Rg*'- ^ cups flour. 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 even teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cup sweet milk. powder. 

Mrs. J. H. Hastings. 

RAISED RICE MUPFIN5. 

3 pints of flour. 2 eggs. 

1 pint warm milk. 1 even cupful of boiled rice. 

2 large tablespoonfuls butter. %cup yeast or V^ yeast cake 
1 tablespoonful white sugar. dissolved in % of a cup of milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar, stir in the well-beaten eggs, 
add 1 pint of flour, then the milk and the remainder of flour. 
Add the rice and yeast mixed well together. Leave to rise 
over night. In the morning put into well buttered muffin 
tins, let them rise an hour in a warm place. Bake in quick 
oven half an hour. From New England Cook Book. 

SCONES. 

One quart prepared flour, with butter size of tg^ wdl 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. J 7 



worked in ; 1 beaten egg in milk enough to make firm dough ; 
salt and sugar to suit. Divide in two parts, each rolled out to 
size of tin; cut across to make four quarters, bake -in quick 
oven. 

BROWN SCONES. 

White and graham flour, 1 pint each, 2 heaping teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. Other parts as above. 

Mrs. Emma C. Fairijanks. 

COLUMBIAN COFFEE COILS. 

3 cups sweet milk. V2 cup butter, melted. 

1 cup yeast. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 cup sugar. 

Stir up at night and set in warm place. In the morning 
stir and let rise again. Knead well, roll into long, narrow 
rolls, butter on inside of roll and coil up. Put into round tin, 
let it rise. When readv for the oven, brush over with sweet 
milk and sift frosting sugar over all. 

Cornelia T. Fairbanks. 

GRAHAM OEMS No. 1. 

1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup graham meal. 

1 egg. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 tablespoonful butter. A little salt. 

1 cup flour. 

Mrs. Harylin Paddock. 

graham OEMS No. 2. 

V2 cup sweet cream. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup sugar. V2 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Mix the soda and cream tartar with graham enough to 
make a thin batter ; have gem pans hot and bake in a quick 
pyen, Mrs. A. H. McLeod, 



18 COOKERY CRAFT. 



GRAHAM OEM5 No. 3. 

1V4 cups grah.'im flour. 1 tablcspoonful brown sugar. 

IV2 cups wheat flour. 1 even teaspoonful salt. 

1 even teaspoonful soda. 2 cups sour milk. 

1 scant teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Sift graham, having full measure, with the sugar and salt. 
Sift wheat flour with cream tartar, then mix together and stir 
in sour milk. Stir well together. Have gem pans on top of 
stove hot and ver}' well buttered; fill full and bake in hot oven. 
A teaspoonful or more sour cream or butter, tciking the place 
of some of the milk, is considered by some an improvement. 

PEELED WHEAT FLOUR. 

Text — The finest ol the wheat. 
Revised version — Peeled Wheat flour. 
Exposition — Delicate, nutritious. 
Argument — To live well is the duty of man. 
AppliCfition — Fit the text to every day life. 
Inference— Extraordinary satisfaction. 
Remark — This is not an advertisement. 
Conclusion — Great is good livinjj. — [li. T. F. 

PEELED WHEAT GEMS No, 1. 

1 pint peeled wheat flour. 1 cup sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. V2 cup sweet cream. 

Have gem pans hot and well buttered and bake in quick 
oven. Josephine. 

PEELED WHEAT GEMS No. 2. 

1 large cup sour milk. 1 tablcspoonful molasses. 

1 Ggg. 1 tablcspoonful sugar. 

2 scant cups flour. 1 tablcspoonful butter. 

Beat the egg very light. Add sugar, molasses and butter 
and beat again. Dissolve soda inalittle warm water and add 
with the flour. Have gem pans hot and fill nearly full and 
bake in hot oven. 

Arlington wheat gems made by same rule, stirring a 
a trifle stiffer with Arlington wheat meal ; very nice. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



19 



GRAHAM BI5CUIT. 

2 cups graham flour sifted. 8 small tcaspoonfuls baking 

1 cup white flour sifted. i)owder. 

2 taf)lespoonfuls shortening. 1 small teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Sift baking powder into flour, rub shortening into flour, 
add sugar and salt, lastly the milk, roll out with as little 
handling as may be into thin sheets cut with biscuit cutter. 
Bake directly in hot oven. . Shkkpcotk. 

FRANKLIN FLOUR OEMS. 

V2 cup sour cream. 2 large spoonfuls sugar. 

V2 cup sour milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

A very little salt and enough Franklin flour to drop from 
spoon in small cakes. Bake in quick oven — very nice. 

Mrs. Wm. Matthkws. 



1 ^KK- 

1 cup flour. 

1 cup rye meal. 



2 cups corn meal. 
1 cup flour. 
1 cup sweet milk. 
V2 cup sugar. 



RYE ROLLS. 

W\ cup sour milk. 
V2 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful soda, a little salt. 
Mrs. F. a. Tifft. 

CORN CAKE No. 1. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
3 tcaspoonfuls baking powder. 
V2 teaspoonful salt. 

Mrs. G. E. Goodall. 



CORN CAKE No. 2. 

Mj cup sugar. 

2 tcaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Butter one-half the size of an Q^g^ a little salt. Beat sugar, 
butter and egg thoroughly together. 

Mrs. 0. E. Nettleton, 



1 cup milk. 
1 cup flour. 
1 cup meal (scant). 



20 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CORN CAKE No. 3. 

V'2 cup brown su^c'ir. 1 cup flour. 

2 tahlcsjjoonfuls butter. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups milk. 2 cups cream of tartar. 

2 cups corn me«'il. 2 eggs. 

A pinch of salt. 

Maudk E. McLeod. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

2 cui)s flour. 1 dessertspoonful butter. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teasi)oonful cream of tartar. 

1 cup milk. V2 teaspcM^nful soda. 
V^cup Indian me«'il. Scant teaspoonful salt. 

May be baked in shallow tins or gem pans. 

Mabel F. Fairbanks. 

SPIDER CAKE. 

1% cup granulated corn meal. 1 cup sour milk. 
Mj cup wheat flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs well beaten. . 1 teaspoonful soda (scant). 
2 cui)s sweet milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Mix together the meal, flour, salt, soda and butter. 
Add the eggs, then 1 cup of sweet milk, and the sour milk. 
Hutter a spider with a piece of butter the size of an Qy:^^. Pour 
in the mixture and add, without stirring, the second cup of 
sweet milk and bake. Luklla Merrill. 

CORNMEAL OEMS. 

1 tablespoonful white sugar. IV'^cups Indian meal. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 Mj cups flour. 

2 eggs. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking 2 cups milk, 
powder. 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add eggs thoroughly 
beaten, sift in the flour with baking powder, stir in part of 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 21 



the milk, then sift in the meal and salt and add the remainder 
of the milk, stirring all well together. Have the gem pan well 
buttered and very hot on top of stove. F'ill nearly full and 
hake in hot oven. 

PAN DOODLE5. 

Make a dough as for bread, letting it stand over night. 
In the morning take pieces the size of walnuts and fry in boil- 
ing lard until light brown. Serve in a hot dish and eat with 
butter and syrup. F. M. Simpson. 

POP-OVERS. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful butter. 

2 cups flour. A pinch of salt. 

2 cups milk. 

Beat well and bake in moderate oven three-fourths of an 
hour. 

WAFFLES. 

1 pint milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Flour enough to make a little thicker than griddle cakes. 
Heat waffle iron and cook quickly. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Kvburg. 

buckwheat oriddle cakes. 

1 pint buckwheat. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

V2 tablespoonful brown sugar. Vs cake yeast in Va, cup water. 

1 pint warm water. 

Stir well, cover closely and let rise over night. Fr}' in the 
morning, having the griddle hot and well greased with butter. 

WHEAT ORIDDLE CAKES No. 1. 

1 pint sweet milk. Pinch of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls thick cream. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
1 egg. V2 teaspoonful soda. 



22 COOKERV CkAPT. 



Mix sodci and cream tartar with flour enough to make a 
thin batter. ILive the griddle hot and fry quickly with 
butter. Mrs. A. H. McLeod. 

WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES No. 2. 

IH cups flour. 1 egg. 

Vi teaspoonful salt. IV^ cups milk. 

y^ teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKE5 No. 3. 

IV^ cups sour milk. 1 egg. 

IVi cups flour. % teaspoonful soda. 

V^ teaspoonful salt. V^ teaspoonful cream tartar 

(scant). 
A great variety of griddle cakes can be made with these 
batters by using corn, graham, or other meals. 

WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES No, 4. 

1 pint sour milk. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 pint flour. V^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs. 

Mix flour and sour milk together at night. In the morn- 
ing add the eggs well beaten, with the salt and soda dissolved 
in a little hot water. S. E. R. 

A suggCvStion comes that the addition of the white of an 
egg^ beaten stiff, to any griddle cake batter, just before frying 
is a great improvement. The batter should be a trifle richer 
than when made without the egg. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

1 pint flour. V^ cup butter. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of A little salt, 
baking powder. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Sift baking powder through flour, rub in the butter, stir in 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 23 



enough sweet milk (about V2 pint) to mix in the flour. Take 
out upon hoard, divide in halves, roll out round about one-half 
inch thick, lay in round tin, spread thinly with melted butter and 
la}' the second one on top and bake in hot oven about twenty 
minutes, Sej)arate when done, spread both well with butter 
and heap on the berries, which have been mashed with plenty 
of sugar, on one, and lay the other on top and serve immedi- 
ately. 



SANDWICHES. 



MISS ISABEL PADDOCK. 




HAMIDRESSINQ FOR SANDWICHES. 

For a pint of vinegar take yolks of 6 eggs thoroughly 
beaten, 1 dessertspoonful mustard (or 2, if one likes it 
strong,) and a little pepper. Stir all together and set over fire. 
Boil till it thickens. The ham should be chopped very fine, 
leaving in, if you choose, a little of the fat, as no oil or butter 
is used in the dressing. Let it be cold before using. 

Mrs. French. 

sardine sandwiches. 

One box sardines drained and boned. Rub to a paste. 
Yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs, mashed smooth and seasoned 
with Vi teaspoonful salt, a bit of pepper, and 2 teaspoonfuls 
lemon juice. Add sardines and mix thoroughly. Spread on thin 
slices of bread and cut in inch-wide strips. 



SANDWICHES. 25 



5ALAD SANDWICHES. 

Chop lobster or chicken very fine and mix with mayon- 
naise dressing. Place a portion between two fresh lettuce 
leaves, and again between two slices of bread. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Spread slices of soft bread with butter. Cut each in two 
and between the halves put crisp leaves of lettuce, allowing the 
leaves to show beyond the edges of the bread. These must be 
served immediately while lettuce is crisp. Many like a little 
dressing on the lettuce, either of sugar and vinegar or a regular 
salad dressing. L. B. M. 

'* With two seeming bodies but one heart. " 

— Midsummer Night's Dream, 

FILLING FOR SANDWICHES. 

Chop cold boiled chicken very fine, (ham or tongue may 
be used instead,) and to every 4 teacupfuls add 1 teaspoonfulsalt 
and V^ teaspoonful pepper. Mash yolks of 5 hard boiled 
eggs, add 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, beating well, and grad- 
ually beat in V2 cup cream or »nilk. When smooth, stir in the 
chopped meat. 

ROLL SANDWICHES. 

Finger rolls split open lengthwise, hollowed out, and filled 
with the preceding mixture, may be placed together and tied 
with narrow ribbon. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

White or brown bread cut very thin and buttered, or 
toasted crackers, may be sprinkled with grated cheese before 
placing together. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES. 

Strawberries cut in thin slices and sprinkled with powdered 
sugar are placed between thin slices of bread and butter, or 
fruit jam may be used. Salted crackers spread with orange 
marmalade are also delicious. 
3 



26 COOKERY CRAFT, 



EOa SANDWICHES. 

Already given under eggs. 

Finely minced meat should be used as a filling for sand- 
wiches, rather than that cut in clumsy slices. The bread 
should be buttered on the loaf somewhat scantily, and then 
sliced with a sharp knife, the crusts being trimmed off. For 
picnics, wrap separately in paraffine paper. F'or teas, cut in 
triangles, fancy shapes, or finger lengths, and serve on a 
napkin. Very soft, spongy bread may be cut thin, rolled, and 
tied with ribbon. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

See ''Original Letters of Edward Montague, First Lord Sand- 
wich, wherein diverse matters between the crowns of England and 
Spain from 1603 to 1678 are set in a clear li«i:lit." Also, Original 
Layers of Ham set in divers position between Territorial Limits by 
John Montague, Fourth Earl of Sandwich, about 1746. 



Doughnuts and Fried Cakes, 



( i. e., Kings and Things.) 



MRS. H. C. BOND. 




RAISED DOUGHNUTS No. I. 

*' Here already there lurk suggestions of a waiting 
for something to turn up. " — Lit. Digest. 

1 pint milk. 1 cup sugar. 

1 tahlespoonful of melted but- 1 whole yeast cake. 

ter. Flour. 

A little salt. 

Scald the milk, then cool until it is lukewarm and sponge 
with flour enough for a thick batter. Mold once in the morning, 
then let rise again. When raised, turn out on the board and 
pat down, cut in squares and fry. Mrs. F^rank Paink. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS No. 2. 

1 quart flour. V4 of a yeast cake. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Salt. 

2 tablesp(fonfuls lard. Sweet milk enough to knead. 

Put all together and mold. Let rise over night. In the 



2f^ COOKERY CRAFT. 



morning mold again and let rise till very light ; then very care- 
fully turn out on the molding board and roll out about one inch 
thick and twist. I think them nicer to let stand about fifteen 
minutes before putting into fry. Have the lard very hot and 
nerertum them o^er but once and not then till they are nearly 
done. Mrs. E. N. Stevens. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS No. 3. 

To 1 quart of sponge add 2 well-beaten eggs, % cup 
of sugar and 1 generous teaspoonful of butter. Chop all 
thoroughly together and work until light and smooth, adding 
as little flour as possible. Cut into cakes the size of a walnut 
and place them some distance apart on a baking sheet so they 
will not touch in rising. Cover well with a soft cloth and let 
them rise till very light. When ready slip a knife under them, 
lift very carefully into the boiling fat and fry quickly. Drain 
them in a wire basket or on a cloth. This rule makes about 
three dozen cakes. Mrs. Albert Paddock. 

PLAIN DOUGHNUTS. 

1 egg. 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 cups thick sour milk. 4 tablespoonfuls cottolene. 

1 teaspoonful soda. Flour enough to mold lightly 

1 teaspoonful salt. and roll out. 

Do not melt the cottolene, but cream the sugar and cotto- 
lene together, beat in the eggj add the milk with the soda dis- 
solved in it, then the flour. Let rise ten minutes before frying. 

Mrs. W. a. Graham. 

DOUGHNUTS No. I. 

2 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. % cup thick sour cream. 

% teaspoonful soda. V^ cup sour milk. 

Flour to roll. M. 

"Who knows to what unnamable subtleties of law 
all these owe their shape. " — The Hero as Divinity* 



DOUGHNUTS AND FRIED CAKES. 29 

DOUGHNUTS No. 2. 

2 cups sour milk. V2 cup cream. 

1 cup sugar. 1 egg. 

1 rounding tcaspoonful soda. Salt. 

Flour to roll. Mrs. James Moork. 

DOUGHNUTS NO. 3. 

1 pint sweet milk. 1 cup sugar. 
4" ^gg^- V^ cup butter. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls cream 6 cups flour. 

tartar. A little nutmeg and salt. 

1 teaspo(mful soda. 

Drop from spoon into hot lard and fry quickly. 

Mrs. Alyord. 

CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sour milk. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

% cup sugar. 1 tcasp(jonful salt. 

1 Qgg. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

E. M. Emerson. 

JOLLY BOYS. 

Sift thoroughly 2V^ tablespoonfuls of yellow corn meal, 2 
heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 
saltspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Beat 1 cg\i 
and add to the dry mixture with enough milk to make a drop 
batter, stir in quickly V2 teaspocmful melted butter, beat well 
and drop by spoonfuls into smoking hot lard. Mrs. N. M. 

CRULLERS NO. I. 

3 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

8 tablespoonfuls butter. 4 tablespoonfuls sweet milk. 

Little soda and cinnamon. Flour to make it stiff*. 

Mix hard, roll thin, frv in hot lard. Mrs'. N. M. 

CRULLERS NO. 2. 

3 eggs. 3 large tablespoonfuls sugar. 

A little soda and salt. 



30 COOKERY CRAFT, 



Mix hard, roll thin and fry in hot lard. Very good. 

Mrs. N. M. 
crullers no. 3. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 heaped tablespoonful sugar. 

1 egg. A little nutmeg and salt. 

A pinchof sodain 1 teaspoon- Flour, 
ful water. 
Roll thin, cut into fancy shapes with a cruller cutter, fry 
quickly. Miss Hawes. 

OLD FASHIONED FRIED TURNOVERS. 

1 pint sour milk. 1 tablespocmful cream. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1 egg. 

Pinch of salt. Flour. 

Roll out as soft as possible, cut out the dough about 
the size of a saucer, fill with apple, pinch the edges firmly 
not to let the apple out. Fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Proctor, 
fried pies. 

Make a dough same as for doughnuts, only not quite as 
short, roll thin and cut around the size of a small pie plate. 
Have the lard quite hot and fry quickly, turning often to keep 
the shape. Put each crust on a separate plate that any sur- 
plus fat may drain off. Mash and sweeten cider apple sauce, 
and spice with nutmeg and cinnamon, and spread between and 
upon these crusts. Mrs. A. D. Nelson. 

These pies do not require " The Great Pie Belt" 
to hold them together. 



EGGS. 



MRS. Z. A. RICHARDSON. 




OMELET. 

Beat 3 eggs, add 3 tablesptionfuls sweet milk and a little 
salt. Pour into a hot frying pan well buttered. When partly 
done double in the pan. Canbemadcin two parts if you wish. 
Mrs. W. J. White. 

HAM OMELET. 

Four eggs, whites beaten to a stiif broth, the yolks and 4 
tablespoon fu Is of sweet milk beaten together. Add pepper, salt 
and a littlepinchofbakingsoda to thcyolks, pour both together 
and put the apoon through a few times. Pour into a hot, but- 
tered pan, sprinkle a layer of ham chopped fine, put in the oven 
until the egg is set, then cut apart and put one on top of the 
other. Serve hot. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

FRENCH OMELET. 

6 eggs. 1 cup boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 1 cup bread crumbs. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



32 COOKERY CRAFT. 



This is sufficient f(»r two cakes. Fry them in suet drippings 
and when nearly done turn them, each one together in the 
shape of a half moon. Mrs. Willis D. Flint. 

"This fcHow (Iocs not st:ind upon points." — Mid- 
summer NighVs Dream. 

NETTIE'5 OMELET. 

3 eggs beaten separately. 3 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the yolks, add milk, salt and pepper, lastly the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Have the frying pan as hot as possible 
without scorching, j)ut in a good sized tablespoonful of butter, 
then pour in the omelet, to which should be added a pinch of 
soda. As soon as the whites seem firm, cut through the middle 
and fold over. Shake the pan to free the omelet, slide upon a 
hot platter and serve at once. L. B. Merrill. 

STEAMED EOaS. 

Place cups, each containing 1 teaspoonful of butter, a lit- 
tle salt and pepper, in a steamer. When the butter is melted 
break an Q^g into each cup, steam three minutes. 

Mrs. Crawford Ranney. 

BAKED EQQS No. 1. 

Butter a shallow baking dish, cover bottom and sides with 
very fine bread crumbs, break in as many eggs as will stay in 
place on bottom of dish and not run together; put on top, bits 
of butter, a little salt and pepper, cover all with fine bread 
crumbs. Bake in hot oven ten minutes. 

BAKED EQQS No. 2. 

6 little Qgg cups. 6 eggs. 

Bits of butter. Bread crumbs, line. 

Butter cups, line with bread crumbs, break in the eggs, put 
on bits of butter, and salt and pepper to taste, cover with bread 
crumbs. Bake in hot oven. Both are much liked by all that 
have eaten them. Julia A. Taplin, 



KGGS. 33 

BAKED EUaS No. 3. 

Hreak 8 eggs in a buttered dish, add a little pepper, 
a little salt, small bits of butter and 3 tablespoonfuls of sweet 
cream. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Hknrv Faikiianks. 
eqos and ham baked. 

Take some very fine minced hfim, mixed to a paste, with a 
little boiling water, let it cool, line small q^^ cups with ham, 
break an egg:^ into each cup, cover with bread crumbs. Bake 
ten minutes. Joskpiiink. 

EOa TOAST. 

^ ^Ki^^' ^^^^ plate of meal. 

G slices of bread. 

Toast and butter bread. Break eggs, put whites into a 
bowl, keep yolks in shells, stand each shell in plate of meal. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, spread on each slice of buttered 
toast and drop a yolk into the middle of whites, putting toast 
upon a platter. Put into hot oven until yolks are cooked. 
Very good. Julia A. Taplin. 

EOO 5ANDWICHE5. 

Boil 3 eggs one-half hour, mash and season well with salt, 
butter and a little pepper. Spread 12 slices of bread, cut very 
thin, with butter, then spread with the Qgg and fold. 

Mrs. G. M. Howe. 

"The matter of c^J^g^ lobster, man and mutton, as 
Mr. Huxley explained, is the same, and by subtle 
influences may be transubstantiated into each other, 
and this is the Physical Basis of Life. " — Wainwrigbt, 

PRIED EQQS. 

Place in a frying pan on a hot range 3 tablespoonfuls of 
butter or pork fat, heat well, then carefully break in 1 tgg, 
taking care not to break the yolk. Cook one-quarter of a 
minute, then turn and cook one-(|uarter of a minute on the 
other side. 



S4 COOKHKY CRAFT. 



POACHIil) IUi(i5. 

One pint lioilin^ water in a spider, break e^^^^searcfully one 
hy one into the water, let boil until the whites set, lay on 
dish and put over a little butter, salt and iK*p])er. Iv)i(^s should 
be (juite fresh to ])oaeh nicely. 

SCkAMBLHI) Ii005 No. 1. 

Hutter the size of a walnut in the frying pan. When hot 
put in c^K**' which should be jireviously broken in a dish, 
season and stir until cooked as tnuch as desired. Some prefer 
to use a little milk or cream with the e^^s. 

SCkAMBIJil) liOOS No. 2. 

Be/it <) e^^jjs, season with a little pepper and sfilt. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter in the fryin^j; pan, when it is hot pciur 
in the e;j^|L(s, stir until it thickens. Ivat hot. 

SOIT HOUAll) I:(1(I5. 

Put fresh e^^s in a dish of boilin;^ water and set cm the 
back of ran^e where it will not boil. Let stand ten or fifteen 
minutes. They will be soft but beaiitifidly done*. 

SPANI5H 120(15. 

Add to 2 rpiarts boiliti;; water a tablespoonful of salt, and 
in it cook until soft one cup of rice. l)rain through a colander 
andadd a tfiblespoonfid of butter, spread lightly tm hot plat- 
ter, and on it place dropped eggs. Mks. P. I). Bloixjktt. 

I)I:VILI:I) 1:0(15. 

Seasouitig for 2 eggs. 1 tcaspoonfid melted butter. 

1 teaspootiful vinegar. Vh teaspoonful sugar. 

Vh teas]>oonful mustard. A pinch of pep|)er. 

Vh teaspoonful salt. 

After tlie eggs have been boiled until the yolks are mealy, 
cool them, and removing the shells, cut in two. Mash the 
yolks until smooth and add the seasoning. ImII the whites 
with the seasoned yolks and serve when rpiitecold. 

liuAis C. PuTNJcy. 



SALADS. 



MRS. HARVLIN PADDOCK. 




MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

2 teaspoonfuls dry mustard. Vicup salad oil. 

1 teaspoonful water. M? cup strong vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Mix salt and yolks of eggs with wooden spoon, add prepared 

mustard, mix till smooth with Dover egg beater, add oil, a few 

drops at a time, beat till thick, then add vinegar till of proper 
consistency. Mrs. M. 

'*To make a salad dressing four persons are 
wanted: A spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, 
a counselor for salt, and a madman to stir up." — Span- 
ish Proverb. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

3 tablespoonfuls oil. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. V2 saltspoonful pepper. 

Place salt and pepper in a cup, and 1 tablespoonful of the 
oil, mix thoroughly, then add the remainder of oil and vinegar 
slowly. 



:Ui COOKERY CRAFT, 



SALAD l)Ri:S5IN(] No. 1. 

Yolks of 8 c^^s well beaten. 1 teaspoonfiil dry mustard. 
V4 saltspoonful eayenne. 2 teaspoonfids salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 1 ouj) eream. 

2 scant tablespoonfuls su^ar. V'2 cuj) hot vinegar. 

Cook in steamer until like soft custard, then add whites of 

3 eg^s beaten li^^ht. Mrs. Orris Paddock Hastings. 

5ALAD DRI£5SIN(] No. 2. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 cup best vinegar. 

1 tablesj)oonful mustard. 1 egg. 

1 small tablespoonful salt. A bit of cayenne. 

Put mustard, sugar, salt, pepper and vinegar into earthen 
kettle, setting in boiling water, stir as it heats. When well 
cooked add the egg, well beaten, and stir all together. When 
cold, set away in glass jar until wanted. To j)repare for table 
take 2 tablespoonfuls cream, well beaten, 4 tablespoonfuls 
boiled dressing, beat all together, add chopped celery or lettuce, 
mix with any choj)ped meat, garnish with nasturtium blos- 
soms and leaves. Miss Taplin. 

CRRAM SALAD DRBSSINQ. 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 1 teasjxxmful salt. 

1 tablespoonful cre/im. Vi. teaspoonful mustard. 

2 eggs. 

Beat eggs, add sugar, salt, mustard, lastly vinegar and 
cream. Cook in a double boiler until as thick as rich cream. 

Mrs. IIknrv Paikdanks. 

REMOULADE DRESSING. 

3 hard boiled eggs. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
1 raw yolk of egg. »'i tablesj)()onfuls olive oil. 
V2 teaspoonful made mustard. Salt and cayenne to taste. 

Remove egg shells, set aside whites to be used as a garnish. 
Mash yolks perfectly smooth, add mustard, seasonings, one- 
half the vinegar and mix thoroughly, .'idd oil droj) by dro]), 
beating thoroughly all the while, then the yolk of the raw ^gg, 



SALADS. 37 



and when this is well beaten in, add remainder of vinegar. 
The quantities of oil and vinegar may be slightly increased 
according to taste. Mrs. Jonathan Ross. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

1 cold boiled chicken, white V2 teaspoonful made mustard. 

meat only. 2 hard boiled eggs. 

An equal quantity crisp celery. 1 raw egg. 

1 teaspoonful salt. V2 teacupful vinegar. 

2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls salad oil, (or 2 
V^ teaspoonful pepper. of sweet cream or 1 of butter.) 

Cut meat and celery in' small squares, mix together, 
sprinkle a little salt over and set in a cool place while 
dressing is prepared. Rub yolks to a fine powder. Add salt, 
pepper and sugar, then the oil, a few drops at a time. Add 
mustard and let stand while you whip to a froth the raw egg. 
Add to the dressing, beating briskly all the while. Lastly add 
vinegar little by little. Mix lightly with a wooden spoon and 
turn into a salad bowl. Garnish with rings of the whites of 
hard boiled eggs, and parsley, or bleached celery tops. If in. 
haste Durkee's dressing may be substituted. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

"It is not now a question of sentiment but one of 
digestion : Can we take in so much foreign material and 
so many sorts and retain our integrity." — The Immi- 
gration Problem. 

VEAL SALAD. 

Boil 3 pounds of veal until tendei*. Chop and add one-half 
the same amount, celery in season, (or cabbage and celery salt), 
chopped fine. When cold, pour over it the following dressing: 

3 eggs beaten up. V2 cup vinegar. 

Vs teaspoonful red pepper. 1 tablespoonful French mustard. 
1 cup sweet or sour cream. 1 tablespoonful salad oil or butter. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 scant tablespoonful salt. 



Boil till thick like custard. 



Mrs. Alick Smith JohNvSon. 



38 COOKERY CRAFT. 



FISH SALAD. 

One quart of any kind of cold, cooked fish (halibut, haddock or 
cod is nice), flaked and freed from bones and skin. Mash yolks 
of 3 hard boiled eggs, and 6 or 8 sardines (bones and skin re- 
moved) to a smooth paste. Mix this paste with boiled or 
mayonnaise dressing. Arrange fish on lettuce leaves and pour 
over it the dressing. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

Mahel Fairbanks. 

salmon salad. 

One can salmon, 1 large cupful cold boiled potato cut 
into dice. Drain salmon and remove bones and skin. Mix 
with potato. Add dressing just before serving. Garnish with 
parsley. Mrs. Merrill. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Two medium sized fresh lobsters, 3 stalks celery. Shred 
the meat of lobster, add chopped celery, and just before serv- 
ing, the dressing. A cream dressing is desirable. Garnish with 
lettuce or celerv leaves. 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil 6 eggs, remove shells, separate the yolks without 
breaking, cut whites into thin strips, or chop fine, and mix 
with an equal quantity of minced chicken, ham or salmon, and 
a tablespoonful of fine sprigs of parsley. Arrange this mix- 
ture on a bed of lettuce and garnish with yolks. Serve with 
French, mayonnaise or remoulade dressing. 

Mrs. Jonathan RoSvS. 

potato salad. 

6 eggs well beaten. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful mixed mustard. V2 teaspoonful pepper. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 coffee cup vinegar. 

Butter, size of an f^gg. 

Make a custard of these, afterward add a cup of sweet 



SALADS. 39 



cream and a bit of cayenne, add salt after custard is well 
cooked. Ten potatoes boiled, when cold cut into dice, add 
dressing just before serving. A very little onion gives a fine 
flavor. J. H. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Three-fourths cup of sour vinegar, butter size of an ^gg. 
When melted add a large teaspoonful of mustard mixed with 
a little vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a dash of cay- 
enne pepper, 2 beaten eggs. Cook until it thickens, stirring 
all the while. Have cabbage chopped fine, season with salt 
and pepper. Add a cup of whipped cream to the custard. Mix 
all together. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Take large, ripe tomatoes, pare and scoop out a little on 
upper side. Fill cavity with chopped celery. Pour over all 
any nice salad dressing. These placed on fresh lettuce leaves 
make a very attractive dish for tea. M. W. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Select tender stalks of asparagus, boil, set away to cool, 
then cut into inch pieces. Just before serving, pour over it 
salad dressing No. 2. Garnish with parsley. M. L. P. 

BEET SALAD. 

Chop cold boiled beets. Place a layer in dish, then spread 
a thin layer of any good salad dressing (No. 1. is excellent), 
having first pulverized the yolk of 1 hard boiled Qgg and ad- 
ded to the dressing. Repeat until dish is filled, then garnish 
with the white of egg cut in rings. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

To have a salad perfect, certain things should be noted. 
The meat or fish should not be moist; the celery or lettuce 



40 COOKERY CRAFT. 



should be crisp, and no pressure should be used in putting 
together; the dressing should be added just before serving, the 
mixing to be done with a silver fork as lightly as possible. 

SPECIFIC DIRECTION. 

" One should ordinarily stopeatin^ the same when 
he experiences a hurry of ideas, or indistinctness of the 
senses." — Lumpkin. 



SOUPS. 



MRS. Henry French 



'* Modern research teaches that bones may be re- 
duced to food, as in Papin's Digester, and common saw- 
dust by chemical process made nutritious." — Bridge- 
water Treatises^ ii, 139, 

In preparing soups a few general rules are needed. When 
buying meat for soups, lean, juicy, fresh killed meat should be 
chosen. But an economical cook will save the liquor in which 
meat has been boiled and the trimmings of undressed meat 
and game. The bones from roast beef and lamb will also make 
good stock for soups. Great care should be taken to skim the 
soup just before it begins to boil. 

It is desirable to prepare the soup the day before it is wanted, 
that the fat may be removed when cold, when it should be 
carefully strained before using. 

** Jess, having three whole plates and two cracked 
ones, insisted on dinner being taken genteelly, i. e., broth 
and beef on separate plates."— Wnc/ow in Thrums, 

4 



42 COOKERY CRAFT. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

To 3 pints of soup stock, seasoned with salt and pep- 
per, add V2 can tomatoes; when hot, strain and add a round 
tablcspoonful of flour made very smooth in cold water. One good 
cook adds a generous tablcspoonful of sugar, this may be as 
one likes. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

One quart can tomatoes, 3 pints of milk. Heat milk in 
double boiler, when hot add 1 tablcspoonful of flour wet in a 
little cold milk. Add butter size of an egg^ salt and pepper. 
Cook tomatoes and after straining add V4, teaspoonful soda, 
put all together and serve immediately. 

FRENCH SOUP. 

To 1 gallon beef stock, free from fat, add 1 head of celery, 
4 sprigs of parsley, 1 cup of stewed tomato, 1 medium sized 
onion cut fine, 1 small carrot cut into dice, 1 tablcspoonful of 
rice, salt and pepper to taste. Boil steadily for one hour, 
remove celery and parsley before serving, add boiling water to 
preserve same quantity till done. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Six medium sized potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 3 
pints of milk, 1 tablcspoonful chopped parsley, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of salt, % teaspoonful white pepper, 1 onion if you please. Pare 
potatoes and boil until tender, pour off the water, mash them 
and add the otheringredients and boil a few minutes. If you use 
parsley put it in the tureen and pour the soup on it through a 
colander. If you use an onion put it in the milk, removing it 
before you serve. 

'* Much loved of all-commanding — Jove.*' 

CHICKEN AND CORN SOUP. 

Add 1 pint of tender green corn to 1 quart of chicken broth. 
Boil twenty minutes, add 1 cup of cream or milk, butter, salt 
and pepper. 



SOUPS. 43 



QREBN CORN CHOWDER. 

Two slices of salt pork, fried brown, 2 small onions, 6 
potatoes, sliced. Cover with water and cook until soft. Cut 
the corn from 8 ears and cook fifteen minutes with 1 
quart of milk. Salt and pepper to taste. Add crackers if you 
like. Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One quart oysters, IV^ pints of milk, Vq pint of hot water. 
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Put milk and hot water in 
double boiler, let it come to a scald, then add oysters and 
cook till the edges begin to curl, thicken with a tablespoonful of 
flour wet with a little cold milk. Cook long enough to cook 
the flour. Have tureen hot. In the bottom of it put pepper, 
salt and butter. Pour soup over this. This prevents curdling. 

E. W. R. 

** They made a most superior mess of broth, a 
thing which poesy but seldom mentions. But the best 
dish e'er was cooked since Homer's Achilles ordered 
dinner for new comers." 

QREBN PEA SOUP. 

Cook together for fifteen minutes a quart of delicate stock, 
can of green peas and a very small onion. Remove the onion 
and rub remainder through a sieve. Return to the fire, add a 
cup of milk or cream, a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into a 
teaspoonful of flour, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil two or 
or three minutes and it is ready to serve. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

One pint of black beans, soaked over night, in the morn- 
ing drain off the water, put on to boil in 3 quarts of stock. 
Boil for four hours, adding water as it boils away, add salt 
and pepper to taste. When the beans are thoroughly done 
strain the soup Slice 1 lemon and 2 hard boiled eggs very thin 
into the tureen and pour the soup over them. Serve with 
crackers or squares of toasted bread. 



44 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

One cup split peas, soaked over night, in the morning put 
on to boil in 1 quart of water, adding as it boils away to keep 
quantity the same. Any meat can be added to season it. 
When ready to serve, strain and season to taste, add a table- 
spoonful of flour. 

BEAN PORRIDOE. 

Six or 8 pounds of beef fram the shank ; at least 6 quafts 
of cold water. Before it boils skim carefully, add water as it . 
boils away. This should boil at least six hours. Remove the 
meat and skim off the fat. Season with salt and pepper. Add 
to this a (juart of beans previously parboiled, boil until the 
beans are thoroughly done; then add a thickening of a pint of 
corn meal wet in cold water. It should then boil an hour. 

Mrs. E. E. Bakkk. 
bean soup. 

To 3 cupfuls of cold baked beans add 3 pints of 
water, 2 slices of onion, and 2 stalks of celery. Simmer 
thirty minutes and rub through a sieve, add IV^ cupfuls stewed 
and strained tomatoes, V2 tablespoonful chili sauce. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Bind together with a tablespoonful each of 
melted butter and flour, adding it slowly to the soup. Served 
with croutons. Mabkl Fairbanks. 

•• If you boil dry beans they wWlswuW/'—IingHsh Reader, 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

1 quart chicken or veal broth. ¥2 cupful rice. 

1 quart milk. 1 head of celery. 

1 teaspoonfut salt. A pinch of white pepper. 

Cook the rice very soft in a double boiler with half the milk 
and the salt. Orate the celery into the remainder of the milk, and 
let it warm slowly. When the rice is sufficiently cooked, put 
through a fine sieve, and mix with the celery . Then add the well- 
heated stock and pepper. Stir gently over a hot fire a few 
moments before serving. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



Mrs. Dennis e. Mav. 



5 pounds cod, haddock 
A 2-inch cube of salt pork, 
1 tablespoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 

6 crackers. 

Wipe the fish (ha 
about two inches s(]uai 
cold water and boil. 




ethe: 



c quantity by measurement 



id, cover with 
potatoes, usingenough to 



46 COOKERY CRAFT. 



soak in cold water; cut the pork in small pieces and 
fry; cut the onions in thin slices and fry in the pork 
fat ; pour fat into the kettle, leaving out the onions and 
scraps of pork ; add potato, barely covering with boiling water. 
Boil ten minutes, then add the water in which the bones were 
boiled ; add salt and pepper, when boiling add fish and simmer 
ten minutes; add butter, hot milk and crackers, and, if you like, 
a little flour made smooth in milk. 

Mrs. Henry P^rench. 

"Adam and Eve lived in Paradise — they rarely ate 
fish but a g^reat deal of hotchpotch and radishes.*' 
— Sign of The Three Radishes — Holland. 

FISH CHOWDER No. 2. 

1 pint codfish (diamond wedge). 4 large potatoes. 

4 medium sized onions. 2 or 3 slices salt pork. 

1% pints milk. 6 crackers. 

Shred fish in the morning, put in cold water and freshen 
well. Slice potatoes thin, also the onions, and cover wth 
cold water. One hour before dinner lay the pork in the bot- 
tom of an agate or porcelain lined kettle and fry a golden 
brown, cutting in small squares while frying; turn off the fat, 
leaving pork in kettle. Add a layer of the sliced potato, one 
of fish and one of onion, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
dredge with flour. Just cover with boiling water and simmer 
slowly until potatoes and onion are done, about three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Just before serving, add the milk and bring 
to a boil. Have the crackers split and buttered and laid in 
the tureen. Turn the chowder over them and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Henry G. Ely. 

boiled fish. 

Have the fish thoroughly cleaned and scaled, then wash 
carefully and wipe dry, dredge with flour, wrap in a clean 
cloth and sew or tie firmlv. Put into kettle with cold water 
enough to well cover it and add a tablespoonful of salt. Let 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 47 



come to a boil and then keep it boiling till done, allowing fifteen 
minutes to every pound of fish (codfish does not require as 
much time). Open the cloth on a sieve or strainer, and roll 
the fish carefully out. Let drain a minute and then turn upon 
the platter for the table. Serve with egg or white sauce. 

Mrs. Merrill. 
baked pish. 

Take a fresh cod or cusk, scale and wash thoroughly in 
salted water, wipe dry with a cloth. If the fish is to be served 
whole do not remove the head or tail ; stuff' the fish and sew 
it up. Rub with pepper, salt and flour, place in dripping pan 
with thin slices cf salt pork under it, also on top of it. Bake 
till brown, baste often. Do not put water in the pan. Serve 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

STUPFINQ FOR BAKED PISH. 

1 cup bread crumbs. 1 saltspoonful of salt. 

1 saltspoonful pepper. 1 saltspoonful chopped onion. 

1 saltspoonful chopped pickles. Vi cup butter. 

Moisten with water. 

"Thegulosity of Gastaldy at the table of the Car- 
dinal Belloy caused his death. Let this be a warning 
to Priests, whether Protestant, Pa pish or Presbyter- 
ian, as to helping guests three times to the belly part 
of a fish." — Timbs. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Get a square piece of halibut, put in a shallow baking pan, 
half cover with milk, baste often while baking. Serve with 
drawn butter and hard boiled eggs sliced. 

Mrs. French. 

baked halibut steak. 

Have the fish cut into inch slices, wash in salt and water, 
dry on a cloth. Cut some thin slices of salt pork, wash and 
dry them, then place the pork in the pan and fry till crisp on 
one side. Take some flour on a plate, add pepper and salt, 



48 COOKERY CRAFT. 



then rub the fish thoroughly on both sides with this mixture. 
Take the pork from the pan and lay the fish in the hot 
pork fat ; place the slices of pork on top of the fish and set in 
hot oven until crisp. Swordfish is nice cooked in same way. 
Serve with drawn butter sauce. 

FILLET OF HALIBUT. 

3 pounds halibut. 2 onions. 

3 hard boiled eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Juice of 1 lemon. Salt and pepper. 

Free the fish from skin and bone. Cut in slices one-half 
inch thick, cut these in strips three inches long and two wide. 
Sprinkle with lemon juice, salt and pepper. Lay a thin slice of 
onion on each strip and let stand one-half hour. Melt the but- 
ter and put strips into it. Roll up and pin with wooden skew- 
ers, dip in butter once more, place in a tin pan, dredge with 
flour and bake twenty minutes. Remove skewers and pour 
around it white sauce No. 2. Mrs. French. 

3rd Fish — '* Master, I marvel how thefishes live in 
the sea." 

1st Fish — " Why, as men do a-land ; the great ones 
eat up the little ones." — Pericles. 

BAKED TROUT. 

Wash, wipe dry and rub salt in the inside of the fish. Lay 
in a dripping pan upon wooden fish sticks, with a little water 
in the bottom of the pan. Bake twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. Turn over very carefully and bake fifteen minutes 
longer. Put it on a hot platter and serve with cream sauce. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

fried trout. 

Clean, wash and wipe carefully. Rub a little salt into 
each fish, roll in fine corn meal. Have ready a hot frying pan 
in which small squares of salt pork are partly fried. Add a 
little butter. Put in the fish and fry quickly to a delicate 
brown, turning only once. Lay each fish for an instant OU a 



PISH AND OYSTERS. 49 

hot napkin to absorb the grease, and serve on a platter well 
heated, and garnished with parsley or celery tops. Great care 
should be taken not to handle the fish roughly. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

pish a la creme. 

4 to G lbs. fish. Vq cup melted butter. 

1 cup cracker crumbs moist- 1 to IV^ pints white sauce No. 1. 
ened with 
Clean fish, cook in boiling salted water with 1 tablespoon- 
ful vinegar till flesh separates from bones easily. . Drain, and 
when cool remove skin and b(mes, pick apart in flakes, sprin- 
kle with salt and pepper. Put a layer offish on platter, cover 
with sauce, another layer of fish, then sauce. Moisten the 
cracker crumbs with the melted butter, spread over the top 
and bake until crumbs are brown. Garnish with parsley. \ 
fish weighing 3V^ pounds is suflficient for eight people. Cod or 
halibut may be used in the same way. Mrs. French. 

PI3H BALLS No. I. 

1 cup raw salt fish. 1 pint raw potatoes. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 cirg well beaten. 

Vl saltspoonful pepper. More salt if needed. 

Wash fish and pick in half-inch pieces ; pare potatoes and 
cut in (juarters. Put together in a stew pan and cover with 
boiling water. Boil twenty-five minutes or till d(me, drain ofl* 
all the water, beat fish and potato until very light, add but- 
ter, pepper, salt and beaten ngg^ mold into balls and fry in 
smoking hot lard one minute. Drain on paper. Mrs. F. 

'* At breakfast fish balls I consumed. ''—Hunt. 

** In fish balls the phosphites are supplied." — Taylor. 

"There is no thinking without phosphorus." 

— HOchncr. 

** But this is an assumption." — Chambers. 

** Bread is the staff of lifc."-w9w//i. 

** A piece of bread, sir, if you please."— yones. 

'* We don't f»ive bread with one fish bnW.''— Jenkins. 

5 



50 COOKERY CRAFT, 



PI3H BALLS No. 2. 

Make ready a pint of cold salt fish nicely shredded and 
chopped fine, also nearly a quart of fresh boiled potatoes, 
mashed with a cupful of broken butter and 2 even teaspoonfuls of 
made mustard, and Vz teaspoonful of salt thoroughly mixed in. 
Beat an egg light and stir it in with 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of 
cream or sweet milk. Now add the chopped fish, beating 
till it is thoroughly mixed. Take a heaping tablespoonful 
at a time and roll it on a floured board ; make it as round 
as possible and dredge well ; go on till all is made up. Drop 
them, a few at a time, into deep, boiling hot lard, turn 
them over and over till they are evenly crisped and browned. 
Take out with a skimmer and drain. Keep in hot place till 
time to serve. 

Mrs. Merrill. 

clams with cream. 

Chop 50 small clams, not too fine, and season with pepper 
and salt. Put into a stew-pan butter the size of an ^^gy when it 
bubbles sprinkle in a teaspoonful of flour and cook a few minutes, 
stir into it gradually the clam li(iuor, then the clams. Stew 
two or three minutes, then add a cup of boiling cream, and 
serve immediately. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS No. I. 

For a family of five or six take a pint of oysters, add a gill 
of water, heat in a sfiucepan and skim well. Butter a medium 
sized nappy, place a layer of oysters in the bottom of the dish, 
dredge with salt and pepper, cover with a layer of fine bread 
or cracker crumbs, cover this with bits of butter. Alternate 
with the oysters and cracker crumbs, leaving alayer of crumbs 
on top. Strain the liquor off the oysters to take out any bits 
of shell that may be in it, and pour over the dish. Add enough 
water to make sufficiently moist and bake until a nice brown. 

Mrs. Mary A. Brackett. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. ni 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS No. 2. 

1 pint oysters. 1 cup cream or rich milk. 

1 pint bread or cracker crumbs. Vi cup butter. 

Heat the oyster liquor with the butter and milk. Butter 
a shallow dish, put in a layer of crumbs, then a layer of oysters 
and 8eas('n with salt and i)epiK»r, then put in other layers of 
crumbs, oysters and seasoning, with a thick layer of crumbs 
on top. Moisten each layer of bread crumbs with the liquid, 
reserving the larger part for the top layer of crumbs. Lay a 
few pieces of butter on top. Bake in a hot oven twenty min- 
utes or till brown on top. Mrs. IIknkv Ross. 

LITTLE PIflS IN BLANKETS. 

Take as many large oysters as are wished and dry them 
with a towel. Have some fat bacon cut in very thin slices, 
cover each oyster with them and pin on with wooden tooth- 
picks. Broil or roast them until the bacon is crisp and brown. 
Do not remove toothpicks. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Nkttik Maooon. 

*• Within tlicnc foldn we may confidently look to 
find the intellectual powers of man."— /^« /re ofAr^ylc. 

OYSTERS EN COQUILLE. 

F'ill oyster or scallop shells with oysters, season with salt, 
l>utter, pepper and lemon juice; cover with sifted, buttered 
bread crumbs. Bake till the crumbs arc brown. Place the 
shells on small plates and serve. W. C. B. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

1 pint oysters. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 pint cream or rich milk. Small piece of onion and mace. 

I-^et the cream, with mace and onion, come to a boil; mix 
the flour with a little cold milk and stir it into the cream. Let 
the oysters come to a boil in their own li(|uor, skim carefully, 
drain off all the liquor, turn the oysters into the cream, skim 
out the m^ce and onion, and serve. W. C. B. 



S2 COOK BR Y CRAFT. 



PRIED OYSTERS. 

Select largest, finest oysters, drain and wipe carefully, roll 
each in cracker crumbs, then in fwaten egg, then in crumbs 
again. Pry in e(|ual parts of lard and butter. Mix a dash of 
pepper with the crumbs. M. 

OYSTER SHORT CAKE. 

1 quart oysters. Vi cup butter. 

1 cup cream. 1 t«'iblespoonful cornstarch. 

Bake short cake according to rule in bread department. 
Split and fill with creamed oysters. 



• • * 



"The types of created life arc four: 1, Radiate 
2, Molluscous — oyster : all stomach, no back bone. 
There fire such i)eople. I have seen tlu'in at Washing- 
ton."—/. My rick. 

EQO SAUCE. 

Take 1 cupful butter, rub into it 1 tablespoonful flour, V^ 
teaspoonful salt and V4 teaspoonful black pepper; then add a 
pint of cold water, heat it, stirring all the time; when it begins 
to simmer, remove it from the fire, and «'idd 2 or 3 hard boiled 
eggs, sliced thin or chopped fine as you prefer. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Mj cup butter. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

V2 lemon, juice only. 1 Sc'iltspoonful salt. 

V2 cup boiling water. M saltspoonful pepper. 

Rub butter to a cream, add yolks, one at a time and beat 
well; then add lemon juice, pepper and salt. Five minutes 
before serving add the boiling water. Place the bowl in a 
saucepan of boiling water and stir briskly until it thickens. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

1 pint hot water or white V2 cup butter. 

stock. iVppcr and sfdt to taste. 

2 even tablespoonfuls flour. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 53 



CREAM SAUCE. 

2 cups sweet milk. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 cup sweet cream. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, except enough to wet the 
flour. When the milk is well heated, not boiled, add the cream, 
flour, butter and salt. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

WHITE SAUCE No. 1. 

1 pint cream or milk. 1 heaping tablespoonful butter. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

V2 saltspoonful pepper. Mrs. French. 

WHITE SAUCE No. 2. 

1 cup white stock or milk. 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. French. 



MEATS. 



MRS. P. D. BLODGETT. 




"If 3'ou are hungry or a dry, 

Or your stomach out of orders, 

There's sure relief at The Round of Beef 
For both these 2 disorders." 

— Tavern Si£^, 

ROAST BEEF. 

Have the oven hot and allow one hour for cooking a piece 
w^eighing 8 pounds. If you wish it very rare, three-fourths of an 
hour. Wipe the meat, then rub into it salt and pepper and dredge 
with flour. Place in baking pan without water. After the 
meat is browned over, which should be quickly, add* a pint of 
hot water, watch carefully, and add more water if there is 
danger of burning and you desire a gravy. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

Wipe the meat with a cloth wrung out of cold water, then 
dredge with salt and pepper, and generously with flour. PlacQ 



MEATS. 55 



on a meat rack in the baking pan or steamer. Cover the bot- 
tom of the pan with flour, place in hot oven, and as soon as 
the flour in the pan is brown, pour in hot water enough to 
cover the bottom of the pan. Baste it often. Cook a 6 pound 
leg one and three-fourths hours. When the meat is done, pour 
all the fat from the gravy and add a cup of boiling water to 
what remains in the pan. Thicken this with a paste made of 
a tablespoonful of flour and a little cold water. Stir well and 
boil two or three minutes, season with salt and pepper, strain 
and serve. All the dishes must be very warm for a mutton 
dinner. 

PRIED VEAL WITH TOMATOES. 

Cut veal in thin slices, season and fry a nice brown. Have 
ready tomatoes which have been stewed very dry. Pass 
through a sieve to remove the seeds. Put in the pan in which 
the meat has been fried, and add butter enough to make a 
rich gravy. Pour hot over the veal and serve. 

BOILED LEO OP LAMB. 

Take fine, fresh leg of lamb, weighing about 5 pounds, soak 
in warm water for two hours, then wrap it in a xrloth and 
boil it slowly for an hour and a half, or until tender. Put it 
to boil in hot water, and when partly done, add salt enough 
to season the broth. If V^ a cup of rice is boiled with the 
lamb, it gives the meat a nice white look. 

** What is this, mutton ? No sheep, sweet lamb." 

BEEF BALLS. 

Take round steak or any inexpensive piece of fresh beef, 
chop it fine, season with salt and pepper. Form this into small 
flat cakes. Put in the frying pan 2 tablespoonfuls of butter or 
drippings, fry in this a little chopped onion until it is brown, 
remove the onion, and frv the meat balls until brown on both 
sides. Nice for breakfast. Mks. W. A. Taplin. 



56 COOKERY CRAFT. 



VEAL LOAF No. I. 

SMi pounds leg of veal 8 tablespoonfuls powdered 

chopped raw. cracker. 

3 tablespoonfuls cream. 2 scant tablespoonfuls salt. 

1 small teaspoonful pepper. Butter size of egg. 

2 eggs. 

Stir all together, then mold into loaf. Put a little water 
in dish in which it is baked. Sprinkle cracker over top. Bake 
three hours, basting well. Mrs. H. Paddock. 

VEAL LOAF No. 2. 

3 pounds of veal or fresh beef. 3 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

V2 pound of salt pork 1 dessertspoonful of pepper. 

chopped line. 2 beaten eggs. 

Add a little sage. 1 teacupful cracker crumbs. 

Mix and press hard into a tin. Bake one and one-half 
hours. Slice when cold. The butcher will weigh and chop the 
meat. Mrs. H. E. Belknap. 

BROILED BEEF STEAK. 

Have steak cut from three-fourths to an inch thick Cook 
over clear coals ten minutes, this gives it rare, then place on a 
warm dish, season with salt, pepper and butter. Many peo- 
ple prefer to dredge it with salt and flour before cooking. But 
it is not as good. 

FRIED BEEF STEAK. 

The next best thing to broiling is to heat a frying pan hot, 
grease the pan to prevent the steak from sticking, lay the steak 
in, cook quickly, and serve as broiled steak. 

"I found that Friday still had a hankering after 
some of his accustomed meat." — R. Crusoe, 

BEEF STEAK. 

Broil and season as before directed, then place lettuce 
leaves, on dish, steak on the lettuce, then place thin slices of 
lemon on steak. 



MEATS. 57 



BOILED HAM No. 1. 

F'or a 10 pound ham, wash and boil gently for three hours 
in just water enough to cover it, then remove the skin and put 
it in a large baking pan, place in moderate oven until it is a 
rosy brown. It gives a nice flavor to the ham if whole cloves 
are stuck in it before baking. 

BOILED HAM No. 2. 

Wash, then boil an 8 or 10 pound ham for two hours in 
water enough to cover. Remove the skin and bake in a blanket 
for an hour and a half. Then remove the blanket and serve 
hot or cold. To make the blanket, prepare dough as for cream 
tartar biscuits, only use a pint of water in place of milk, and no 
shortening. Roll the dough out large enough to wrap the 
ham in, bake in a dripping pan in a moderate oven for one 
and one-half hours. Mrs. A. Lincoln. 

FRIED HAM. 

Put a tablespoonful of drippings in a frying pan, when 
hot, lay slices of ham in, fry quicklj' eight or ten minutes. It 
will be. brown and crisp. 

BROILED HAM. 

Cut the ham in thin slices, cut off the rind, then broil over 
clear coal ten minutes. If ham is salt or hard, let it stand in 
warm water a little while before cooking. 

"They claim it is as natural for a man to eat what 
will give him fat and phosphorus, as for a monkey to 
eat nuts." 

ROAST PORK. 

Rub the meat well with pepper, salt and flour. Put a pint 
of water in the pan, baste often and do not have the oven as 
hot as for other meats. Bake twenty minutes for each pound. 
It is more wholesome if cooked until tender and eaten cold. 



58 COOKHRy CRAFT. 



BCBF STEAk 5MOTHERED IN ONIONS. 

In cooking; beef steak and onions use (5 medium-sizd 
onions to a pound of beef. Sliee the onions and place in iron 
spider, in which has been melted a piece of butter and a piece 
of lard the si/.e of a walnut. Stir c(jnstantly while frying to 
prevent scorchin)^, and fry to fi deep golden brown. When done 
turn out into a hot dish with a cover, then put in same spider 
and fry quickly the steak. Serve on hot ])latter with lumps of 
butter and pour the onions over it. Season with pepjKT and 
salt. Mrs. Iv. A. Bi.odgktt. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

Slice the liver and place between two towels, cut salt pork 

into dice, sprinkle a layer of pork into frying pan, then lay in a 

layer of the liver, then a layer of the pork and a layer of liver 

until you have the desired amount, then season with salt 

and pepper and pour in boiling water until it comes up in sight. 

Cover closely, bake in moderate oven one hour. Serve on hot 

platter and cover with bits of butter. 

Mks. Gkokok IIowk. 

pre33ed beep. 

Take a piece of corn beef and ])ut it into boiling water 
and keep it boiling till tender. Remove bones. Chop lean and 
fat together. It does not need to be made very fine, only so 
that fat and lean may be thoroughly mixed. Stir in enough 
dry mustard to flavor it. Put the meat in a baking tin and 
put another tin of the same size inside the onecontaining the 
meat; put on this two or three flatirons for a weight, and let 
the meat stand over night; the next day it will come out in a 
good loaf from which nice slices can be cut. 

Mrs. S. W. Hall. 

drawn butter sauce. 

Beat 1 cuj) of butter and 2 tablesj)oonfuls of flour to a 
cream, pour over this 1 pint of boiling water, let it come to a 
boiling point, but do not boil. Serve immediately. 



MEATS, 59 



EGO 3AUCE. 

Chop two hard boiled eggs and stir into drawn butter. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Into a pint of drawn bntter, stir 3 teaspoonfuls of capers. 

MINT SAUCE. 

1 cup of fresh chopped mint, ^4 cup of brown sugar, % cup 
of vinegar. Let it stand an hour, serve cold with lamb or mut- 
ton. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

Meat is in season all the year. Pork in autumn and win- 
ter, veal in spring and summer, lamb in summer and fall, mut- 
ton and beef at anytime. All meats require more or less trim- 
ming and cleaning, also the most watchful care while cooking. 
If possible never wash fresh beef, as by this means much of the 
juice is lost. Wring a clean cloth out of cold water and wipe 
the meat. In roasting meat if a little sugar is dredged over it 
before dredging with salt and flour, it improves the flavor and 
helps to keep in the juice of the meat. 

Mutton, veal and pork should be thoroughly cooked to be 
wholesome. Boiled salt meat is nicer if it stands in the water 
until cool. It is well to boil corned beef the day before using. In 
broiling, first grease the gridiron with some of the fat, the 
secret of broiling is frequent turning. 

"A dinner lubricates business." — LordStowell. 
"Dispatch is the soul of business," — Lord Chesterfield, 



POULTRY AND GAME. 




Falrbankb. 



ROAST TURKEY. 

First singe over blazing paper or alcohol, then cut off the 
feet and tips of the wings, and the neck as far as it is dark; 
then with the blade of a knife take out all the pin feathers; 
turn the skin of the ntek back and with the thumb and fore- 
finger draw out the crop and wind pipe. Cut a slit in the 
lower part of the fowl and draw out the intestines, beiDg care- 
ful not to break the gall bag, which is found near the upper 
part of the breast bone and attached to the Hver. Cut the oil 
bag from the tail. Now wash thoroughly and drain. Split 
gizzard and take out the inside and inner lining, wash and put 
on to boil in two quarts of cold water. (ThisJsforthegravy)- 
Turkey of 8 pounds. 1 tablespoonful parsley. 

VA pint bread crumbs. 1 teaspoonful pepper. 

Vt pint cracker crumbs. 1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoonful sage. 

M cup butter. 1 tablespoonful summer savory. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 61 

Soak the bread and cracker crumbs in cold milk or 
water till soft. Add the other ingredients and mix well. 
Fill the breast of the turkey first, and put the remainder in the 
body of the bird, sewing the openings securely together. Cross 
and tie the legs, run a skewer through the wings, fastening to 
the body. Fasten the neck under the body with a skewer, tie 
all with a twine. Rub the turkey with salt, and lay thin slices 
of salt pork on the body. Place on a rack in a dripping pan or 
in a tin kitchen. Cover the bottom with water. Place in a 
hot oven and baste often with the drippings. Fifteen minutes 
before dishing, remove the bits of salt pork, moisten with but- 
ter and dredge lightly with flour. After the first half hour 
reduce the heat of the oven. Bake two hours, and fifteen min- 
utes more if a tin kitchen is used. Serve wi th giblet gravy. 

"Why dost not tlioii take me upon thy pens, O 
King of the air! thou fearless and unwearied bird of 
wondrously swift flight! Who, more than thou, is 
raised above the mean fatalities of existence?" 

— Micheht. 

For giblet gravy, boil the heart, gizzard and liver in 2 
quarts of water two hours, then take up and chop tlie gizzard 
and heart. Mash the liver till fine and return to the liquid. 
When hot thicken with 1 tablespotmful of flour and season with 
pepper and salt. When the turkey is taken up, turn the drip- 
pings into this gravy, boil up once and send to the table. 

Mrs. J. W. Balch. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

To clean the chicken, singe, remove the pin feathers, oil 
bag, crop, entrails, and cut off legs and neck, slip the skin 
back from the neck, and cut the neck off close to the body, leav- 
ing skin enough to fold over on the back. Remove the wind 
pipe, pull the crop awav from the skin on the neck and breast. 
Always pull the crop out from the end of the neck. Wash and 
wipe the inside. 

To clean the giblets, slip off the thin membrane round the 



62 COOKERY CRAFT. 



heart, cut out the veins and arteries, remove the liver, and cut 
off all that looks green near the gall bladder. Trim the fat and 
membranes from the gizzard, open it, and remove the inner 
lining without breaking it. Wash them and put in cold water 
to cook until tender. The neck and tips of the wings can be 
cooked with the giblets. 

Dressing made as follows for a chicken weighing between 
3 and 4 pounds : Take 1 pint of stale bread, break up in fine 
crumbs and moisten. Addl teaspoonful of salt, V^teaspoonful 
pepper, ^ teaspoonful powdered sage, V2 teaspoonful 
summer savory, and % cupful butter. Mix well together, and 
put the stuffing in at the neck ; fill out the breast until plump 
and even, then draw the neck skin together at the end and sew it 
over on the back. Put the remainder of the stuffing into the 
body at the other opening and sew it with fine twine. 

To truss the fowl, draw the thighs up close to the body, 

and cross the legs over the tail and tie firmly with twine. 

Put a long skewer through the thigh into the body and out 

through the opposite thigh, and another through the wings, 

drawing them close to the body. Wind a string from the tail 

to the skewer in the thigh, then up to the one in the wing, 

across the back to the other wing, then down to the opposite 

thigh, and tie firmly round the tail. If you have no skewers, 

the strings must be passed round the body, over thighs and 
wings. 

•*15th March, 1669, I did walk to 'The Cocke,^ 
at Head of Suffolke street, where a great ordi- 
nary mightily cried up and there bespoke a pullet, and 
we dined very handsome with a good soup and Pullet 
for 4s. 6d. the whole." — Pepys. 

Before putting the chicken into the pan it should be 
dredged well with salt. Take soft butter in the hand, and 
rub thickly over the chicken, then dredge rather thickly with 
flour. Place on the side on the rack, and put into a hot oven 
for a few moments, that the flourin the bottom of the pan may 



POULTRY AND GAME. 63 

brown. When it is browned, put in water enough to cover the 
pan. Baste every fifteen minutes with the gravy in the pan, 
and dredge with flour. When one side is browned, turn and 
brown the other. The last position in which the chicken should 
bake is on its back, that the breast may be nicely browned. 
The last basting is on the breast, and should be done with soft 
butter and dredged with flour. The water in the pan should 
often be removed, and always be careful not to get in too 
much at a time. It will take about one hour and a half to 
cook a chicken weighing between 3 and 4 pounds. 

For gravy, take the giblets, which have been cooking, put 
the liver on a plate, mash ^nt with the back of the spoon, then 
chop the gizzard f heart and meat from the neck very fine, and 
add to the water in which thev have been boiled. Then take 
the gravy from the pan in which the chicken was cooked, and 
add to the giblet gravy, thicken with flour, and season with 
salt and pepper. Mrs. Ellen R. Pike. 

TO ROAST A aOOSE. 

Parboil an hour to extract the oil from the skin ; wipe dry 
and add dressing as for a turkey. When you put the water 
into the dripping pan, cut an onion in halves and lay one 
piece on each side. When the goose is basted it will not taste 
of the onion, but the otherwise strong taste is quite destroyed. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

"This brave and beautiful bird, native of the 
primitive cloaca, last born of ancient world has no 
stain nevertheless. His grand and formidable voice 
announces from afar the gravity and dignified heroism 
of his race." — Palemedea Kornuta, 

TO ROAST A DUCK. 

Parboil, with onions and V&teaspoonful of soda. Parboil 
a second time in clear water, then takeout, stuff and roast like 
turkey, basting often. Mrs. Annie Horton. 



64 COOKERY CRAPT. 



TO BOIL A TURKEY. 

Prepare as for roasting. Fill with whole crackers to keep 
the fowl in shape; rub a little salt inside to season ; sew up in 
a cloth well dredged with flour. See that the water boils when 
the fowl is put in and that there is enough to cover the turkey. 
Try as other boiled meats, with a fork or knitting needle. 
This method of cooking requires a sauce. Either drawn but- 
ter or oyster sauce is nice. Boil a chicken the same way, 
except a shorter time. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

1 pint oysters. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

V2 lemon. 1 teaspoonful flour. 

1 teacupful milk or cream. Cayenne and nutmegif you like. 

Stew the oysters in their own liquor ^\q. minutes, add the 
milk. When this boils, strain, return the liquor to the sauce- 
pan. Thicken with moistened flour. Add the butter, boil one 
minute; add lemon juice and pour out. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Split down through the breast tender spring chickens. 
Wash and wipe thoroughly ; rub both sides in salt, dredge 
with flour, and put in a baking pan with a little water. When 
nearly cooked, remove to a buttered broiler over hot coals and 
brown on each side. 

CHICKEN FRICAS5EED. 

Cut one chicken in pieces as for serving, cover with salted 
boiling water; let it simmer for an hour or until it is 
almost tender. Takeout the chicken and cook the broth down 
to about a pint. To- this add 1 pint of sweet milk, 1 well 
beaten Qg^^ 1 tablespoonful flour, a little more salt, and a 
pinch of celery salt. Put the chicken back into the hot gravy 
and cook twenty minutes or half an hour. This for a white 
fricassee. If you wish a brown one, brown the pieces of fowl 
in a hot buttered frying pan, and pour the gravy over as in 
the first. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 65 

TO COOK A PARTRIDQE. 

Clean and wipe dry. Boil half an hour in salted water, 
then fry until brown in a hot pan with plenty of butter. 
Serve on slices of dry toast, with parsley and currant jelly for 
garnishing. 

5NIPE, PLOVER, WOODCOCK, AND OTHER SMALL QAME. 

These may be cleaned and trussed like chickens but not 
stuffed. Should be laid in rows on the rack in the dripping 
pan, sprinkled with salt and often basted with butter and 
water. Each bird should be served on a round of bread nicelv 
browned and generously buttered. 

Rabbits should be skinned and soaked an hour in salt 
water before cooking. They can be roasted, stewed, fried or 
fricasseed. 

Squirrels are best broiled after the manner of spring 
chickens, having first been soaked thoroughly to draw out the 
blood and then wiped dry. 

Some people delight in squirrel pie. The following is a 
good recipe : 

Clean and soak the squirrels and stew in a saucepan 
with small bits of salt pork and water to nearly cover, until 
half done. Season with salt and pepper and a bit of butter, 
thicken the gravy and pour all into a deep buttered dish. 
Cover with pie crust and bake half an hour. 

HOW TO EAT PEACOCK. 

** Tito quoted Horace, dispersed his slice of peacock 
over the plate. Rucellai made a learned observation 
about the ancient price of peacocks' eggs but did not 
pretend to eat his slice. Nichols Ridolphi held a 
mouthful of peacock on his fork while he told a 
story." — George Eliot. 

*' Apicius dined on peacocks' brains and tongues of 
nightingales. He made way with himself, having 
only £1,000,000 to live on."— ^/j^. Review. 

6 



ENTREES. 



MI8S LIZZIE M. ROSS. 




"Let's do it after the high Roman fashion." 

— Cleopatra. 

MACARONI. 



IV^ cups hot milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 



V4 pound macaroni. 
V2 tea spoonful salt. 
% cup bread crumbs. 
1 cup melted butter. 

Break the macaroni in three inch pieces and put into 3 
pints of boiling salted water. Boil twenty minutes or until 
soft. Drain in a colander and pour cold water through to keep 
it from sticking. Cut into inch pieces. Put in a shallow bak- 
ing dish and cover with a white sauce made with V/2 cups of 
milk, 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 of flour. Add the salt. 
Mix the bread crumbs and melted butter and sprinkle over the 
top. Bake until the crumbs are brown. 

MACARONI AND TOMATOES. 

Boil as above and cover with tomato sauce made from IV^ 
cu])s of steamed tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour. Pour over the macaroni, cover with bread crumbs 
and brown in the oven. 



ENTREES. 67 



MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

One-fourth pound macaroni, 1 cup grated cheese. Boil the 
macaroni as directed above. Butter an earthen dish. Putin a 
layer of macaroni, then a layer of cheese, salt, pepper and but- 
ter. Next a layer of macaroni, cheese, etc., so on until all has 
been used, covering the top with cheese. Pour over all enough 
milk to nearly reach the top of the macaroni. Bake half an 
hour or until a rich brown. Mrs. Edward Ross. 

LAMB SCALLOP. 

1 cup cold lamb, chopped fine. 1 cup stewed tomatoes. 
1 cup fine bread crumbs. 

Arrange all in layers in a buttered dish, having the crumbs 
at the top. Season with salt and pepper, put bits of butter on 
top and bake. Mrs. S. W. Hall. 

SCALLOPED LAMB. 

Remove the fat and skin from cold roast lamb; cut the 
meat in small, thin slices, season it with salt and pepper. 
Cook V4 pound macaroni in boiling salted water until tender ; 
rinse thoroughly in cold water. Prepare a lorown tomato 
sauce. Butter a baking dish and put in a layer of meat, then 
one of macaroni, then tomato sauce. Continu^ in this order 
till the dish is filled, having sauce on top. Cover with % cup 
of cracker crumbs moistened with Vz cup melted butter. Cook 
in the oven until the crumbs are brown. 

** Varieties of dishes, pleasant sauce, all that 
Misillus admired in Lucian;also he hath gout, drop- 
sies, apoplexies, palsies, stone, pox, rheums, catarrhs, 
conditions, oppilations, and such others as therewith 
get in. " — Anatomy of Melancholy . 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 pint tomatoes. 2 cloves. 

V2 onion. A sprig of parsley. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 heaping tablespoon ful flour. 

Cook the tomatoes, onions, cloves and parsley ten minutes 



68 COOKERY CRAFT. 



in a double boiler, then strain. Brown the butter, then add 
the flour, then the tomato pulp gradually. Serve with salt 
and pepper. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

% cup crackers broken fine. 1 cup sweet milk. 
V2 cup grated cheese. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

2 eggs beaten light. Pepper and salt to taste. 

A pinch of soda. 

Bake in a quick oven. Very nice for supper. Put soda in 
the last. Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

RICE WITH CHEESE. 

Wash thoroughly 1 cup rice, add it to 2^ cups boiling 
water, to which has been added 1 tablespoonful salt. Steam 
until tender. Put a layer into a buttered pudding dish, dot 
over with butter, sprinkle with thin shavings of cheese and a 
speck of cayenne ; repeat until the rice is used and Vl pound 
cheese. Add milk to half the depth of the contents of the dish, 
cover with buttered crumbs and bake until the cheese melts. 
Use a silver fork to stir the nee. To prepare cracker crumbs, 
roll but not sift them, and use V4 cup of melted butter to 1 cup 
crumbs. Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 

TURKISH PILAF. 

Boil well washed rice, 1 scant cup, for half an hour, stir- 
ring seldom, and only with a fork. Pour inl tablespoonful of 
melted and slightly scorched butter, and- 1 scant cup of 
strained tomato juice. When it has absorbed the water so as 
not to be watery, it is read}- to serve. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks, 
chicken croquettes. 

V2 pound cooked chicken or 1 pint very thick cream sauce. 

veal, chopped very fine. V2 teaspoonful celery salt. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

1 saltspoonful white pepper. A few drops onion juice. 
A few grains cayenne pepper. 1 beaten ^gg. 

Mix sauce with chicken, spread on a plate to cool, shape 



ENTREES. 69 



into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, 
then in bread crumbs and fry one minute in very hot fat. 
Drain on paper and let stand in the oven a few minutes, as the 
lard may not have heated the mixture through. They may be 
fried in the morning and placed in the oven and warmed for tea. 

Cooking School. 

THICK CREAM SAUCE FOR CROQUETTES. 

1 pint hot cream or milk. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

2 even tablespoonfuls butter. V2 teaspoonful celery salt. 
4 heaping tablespoonfuls flour V2 saltspoonful pepper. 

or 2 heaping tablespoonfuls A few grains of cayenne, 
cornstarch. Mrs. J. Ross. 

" Evidently dyspepsia cannot be said to depend on 
filling the stomach with odds and ends, as it were a 
second-hand junk shop." — Nat. Review. 

CROQUETTES OF ODDS AND ENDS. 

These are made of any scraps of meat that may be left 
over from one or more meals in such quantities that they can- 
not be utilized separately. For example, a leg of chicken, the 
lean meat of a lamb chop, bits of roast beef or veal maybe used 
together with good effect. Chop the meat very fine, after the 
fat and gristle has been removed. To 1^ cups of meat, add 2 
tablespoonfuls mashed potato, 3 tablespoonfuls rich drawn 
butter gravy, 1 teaspoonful onion juice, 1 sprig of parsley, 
finely chopped, salt and pepper to taste. Beat 2 eggs and add 
2 tablespoonfuls of same to croquette mixture, reserving what 
is left to use later. Set the croquette mixture on the ice to 
harden, then form into little cones. Dip in the egg saved for 
the purpose, then roll in bread crumbs ; set them in a frying 
basket and fry in hot lard till they are a rich, golden brown in 
color. Bread crumbs may be used in place of the potato, and 
any meat gravy in place of the drawn butter, but care must be 
taken that the croquettes are moist enough to be palatable 
and at the same time not too rich to keep their shape. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Kyiujrg. 



70 COOKER y CRAFT. 



NELLIE'S MEAT CROQUETTES. 

1 pint meat chopped very fine. % cup sweet milk. 

IV2 tables poonfuls butter. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

A bit of salt and pepper. 

Heat the milk. Rub the butter and cornstarch together. 
Stir into hot milk, add the meat, mix well, roll into small balls, 
roll in fine cracker crumbs. Beat 2 eggs, roll the balls in the 
beaten ^gg^ then crumbs again. Fry in hot lard. 

Miss Taplin. 

potato croquettes no. i. 

One pint mashed potatoes, 1 tablespoonful butter, white 
pepper to taste, a speck of cayenne, V2 teaspoonful salt and a 
little celery salt, also 1 tgg. Mix all but egg and beat until 
very light. When slightly cool, add the well beaten ^gg and 
mix well. Shape into round balls or rolls, cover with bread 
crumbs, then dip in ^gg^ then roll again in fine crumbs and fry 
for one minute in smoking hot lard. Serve at once or keep in 
hot place until wanted. This will make about fifteen cro- 
quettes. Mrs. R. p. Fairbanks. 

POTATO CROQUETTES No. 2. 

6 potatoes. 1 ounce butter. 

Vz cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

Boil and mash the potatoes, mix butter, milk and salt. 
Make into balls or rolls, roll in cracker crumbs, then in beaten 
^gg, then crumbs again. Fry in hot lard. J. J. A. T. 

"Apparent rari nantes gurgite vasto." 

FISH CROQUETTES No. 1. 

6 potatoes. 1 cup fish ofany kind well cooked- 

Mix as for potato croquettes. J. A. T. 

FISH CROQUETTES No. 2. 

Take 1 pint of any cold white fish, flake it very fine, 
remove all bones and pieces of skin ; season it highly with salt, 
pepper, cayenne and onion juice. Let the taste decide, but 



ENTREES. 71 



remember that fish needs more than meat. Moisten the fish 
with one cup thick cream sauce. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Put 1 pint of oysters on to boil in their own liquor for five 
minutes, then drain and chop. Put a scant cup of the liquor 
with the same quantity of cream in a sauce pan, rub 1 table- 
spoonful of butter with 2 of flour and pour into boiling broth. 
When slightly cooked add chopped oysters with 2 beaten eggs, 
V2 cup bread crumbs or enough to make mixture thick, season 
with salt, a dash of cayenne and mace, if that is liked, mix well 
and spread on a dish to cool. When firm, form into croquettes. 
Roll first in fine bread crumbs, then in beaten egg and then in 
bread crumbs again. Fry in boiling fat. 

Mrs. R. p. Fairbanks. 

FRITTER BATTER. FOR OYSTERS, CLAMS OR FRUIT. 

Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. 1 tablespoonfiil olive oil, or 
V2 cup milk or water. melted butter. 

1 cup flour. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

Mix and add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. If it is 
intended for fruit add a teaspoonful of sugar. For clams or 
meat add 1 tablespoonfiil of lemon juice or vinegar. 

For oyster fritters, boil the oysters till the liquor flows 
freely. Drain, strain the liquor and use instead of milk in mak- 
ing the batter. Dip each oyster in the batter and fry brown in 
hot fat. 

For clam fritters, drain the clams and chop the hard parts. 
Use the liquor to make the batter. Add the clams to the bat- 
ter and fry by small tablespoonfuls in hot lard. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

1 cup flour. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 scant teaspoonful baking 1 saltspoonful salt. 
powder. 
Mix together. Beat 1 egg very light, add Va cup milk. Add 



72 COOKERY CRAFT. 



this to the first mixture, beat well. Add 1 large apple cut in 
small pieces. Drop by tablespoonfuls into deep fat and fry 
until brown. Mrs. J. Ross. 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 

1 pint oysters. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Yolks 2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

1 cup cream. 1 tablespoonful chopped pars- 

1 teaspoonful salt. ley. 

A few grains cayenne. 

Drain the oysters and chop slightly. Melt the butter, add 
the flour, and pour on slowly the hot cream. Add the beaten 
yolks, the parsley, salt and cayenne. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until brown. Mrs. J. Ross. 

SUPREME OF CHICKEN. 

Chop the choicest parts of a raw chicken very fine, having 
about 2 cups, add 4 well beaten eggs, one at a time, until the 
mixture is smooth ; add IV^ cups of thick cream, V2 teaspoonful 
salt, and V4, saltspoonful pepper. Decorate molds with truffles, 
fill with the mixture, cover with buttered papers. Set in a pan 
of hot water and bake thirty minutes. Serve with a sauce 
made of 1 cup each of white stock and milk and the yolks of 3 
eggs. Miss Mabel Fairbanks. 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour. 
Pour in slowly 1 cup hot milk or cream, add V2 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 saltspoonful pepper, and 1 cup chicken meat cut into 
dice. 

POTATO BORDER FOR CREAM CHICKEN. 

Wash and pare 9 medium sized potatoes, cook them in 3 
pints boiling salted water until tender, drain off" water, mash 
and season with 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
saltspoonful pepper, and hot milk to moisten. Arrange as a 
border around chicken. Mrs. Julia Ross Aldrich. 



ENTREES. 73 



CHICKEN PIE No. 1. 

Take 2 quarts flour, add 4 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 2 
teaspoonfuls soda, and 2 teaspoonfuls salt ; sift all together. 
Rub in 2 cups of lard, mix soft with sweet milk. Cover the 
pan with the crust except a small space on the bottom. Boil 
2 chickens tender, remove the large bones, fill the pan with 
chicken, add salt, pepper and bits of butter. Thicken the 
broth, pour over the chicken, cover with crust one-half inch 
thick, with an opening in the center for steam to escape. 
Bake one and one-half hours. Mrs. William Shaw. 

CHICKEN PIE NO. 2. 

Joint the chicken and boil till tender in salted water. 
Remove the breast bone. 

1 quart flour. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter or 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. lard. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Increase this quantity to the size of pie desired. Sift the 
cream tartar into the. flour, rub in the butter and mix all to- 
gether with sweet milk enough to roll easily. Line the pan in 
which you wish to bake, with the dough one-half inch thick. 
Fill the center with the chicken laid in, without breaking the 
pieces ; season with salt and pepper. Pour over the chicken 
1 cup of the chicken liquor; lay on pieces of butter. Roll the 
remainder of the dough one inch thick, spread with butter and 
dust with flour; roll up hard. Cut this into slices ; lay one on 
the board and roll each way ; on this place another slice and 
roll as before. Repeat this until the dough fits the top of the 
pan; slash through the center that the steam may escape and 
close the edges of the pic carefully. Bake in hot oven two or 
three hours. Take the remainder of the chicken liquor, thicken 
it a little with flour, season with butter, salt and pepper, if 
liked, serve with the pie, Mrs. H. ROvSS. 

**They are all upper crust here." — Haliburton. 



U COOKERY CRAFT. 

CREAM CRUST FOR CHICKEN PIE. 

1 quart flour. 1 cup sour cream. 

1 teaspoonful salt. V2 cup sour milk. 

1 rounded teaspoonful soda. 

Mrs. Wm. Clkment. 

pidqeons. 

Take smnll pieces of round steak, make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, melted batter, salt and pepper. Roll the steak around 
a small bit of the dressing and pin with a toothpick. Make a 
sauce of stock, or hot water and butter; thicken with bread 
crumbs and flavor with tomatoes or onions. Put thepidgeons 
into an earthen dish, cover and bake two or three hours. 

Mrs. H. B. 

BEEF ROLL. 

1 V2 pounds round steak. V4 pound salt pork. 

1 ^y^g. 4 or 5 slices of white bread. 

Chop the bread and meat fine and season with salt, pepper 
and a little ch()pj)ed onion. Mix with the ^gg well beaten and 
roll in a sheet of buttered foolscap paper. Bake an hour. 
When the juice begins to ooze out put a very little water in the 
pan to keep the gravy from burning. Add to the gravy a little 
tomato and butter, and thicken. Pour this over the meat, or 
serve separately, as you like. Mrs. Charles E. Putney. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

(> tomatoes. 1 cupful bread crumbs or chop- 

2 tablespoonfals butter. ped meat. 

V2 cupful stock. V2 tablespoonful flour. 

V2 teaspoonful onion juice. Salt, pepper. 

Cut slices from the stem end of the tomatoes. Remove 
the juice and pulp with a spoon, and dredge the inside with 
salt and pepper. Put 1 tablespoonful butter in a frying pan 
and when hot add the bread crumbs. Stir until they are 
brown, then fill the tomatoes with them. Cover the openings 
with fresh crumbs and bits of butter. Bake slowly half an 



ENTREES. 75 



hour. Fifteen minutes before the tomatoes are done make the 
sauce by putting V2 tablespoonful of bu tter in frying pan. When 
hot add the flour. Stir until brown and smooth ; then add the 
stock, tomato juice and pulp. Stir until it boils up and add 
salt, pepper and onion juice. Simmer ten minutes, pour the 
sauce around the tomatoes and serve. 

Miss Caroline C. Ross. 

sweetbreads. 

Soak them in cold water one or two hours; remove the 
pipes and membranes. Cook them in boiling salted water, with 
1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, twenty minutes and plunge into 
cold water to harden ; then they maybe cooked in either of the 
following ways : 

Larded — Lard and bake until brown, basting with brown 
stock. Serve with peas. 

Fried— Roll in fine bread crumbs, eggs, a second time in 
crumbs; fry in deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Saute — 1 sweetbread, salt, pepper, 1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour. Split and cut the sweetbread into four 
pieces. Season with pepper and salt. Put the butter and 
flour into a small frying pan ; when hot pour in the sweet- 
bread, turn constantly until a light brown; they will fry in 
about eight minutes. Serve with cream sauce or tomato 
sauce. 

En Coquille — Cut 2 sweetbreads into tiny cubes. Make 

a white sauce with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 3 tablespoon- 

fuls of flour, V2 teaspoonful of salt, ^ saltspoonful pepper and 

1 V2 cups of hot milk. Mix the sauce with the sweetbreads and 

put in buttered scallop shells. Be careful not to fill them too 

full. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs and brown in the 

oven. 

tomato sauce. 

1 pint canned tomatoes. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

4 cloves. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

A small slice of onion. 



76 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Cook the tomato, onion, cloves, ten minutes. Brown the 
butter in a small saucepan and add the flour, then tomatoes, 
a little at a time. Cook two minutes. Season with pepper 
and salt and rub through a strainer fine enough to keep back 
the seeds. 

BAKED BEANS No. i. 

1 quart pea beans. % pound pork. 

% cup molasses. V2 lablespoonful salt. 

Vi teaspoonful soda. 

Soak the beans over night in cold water, put the soda 
and beans into water and let them boil until they begin 
to crack. Drain of? the water and rinse with cold water. 
Wash the pork in hot water and cut the rind into 
V2 inch strips; place in the bottom of the bean pot ; put in the 
beans, molasses, salt and water, enough to cover them. Bake 
all day in a slow oven, adding more water as needed. 

BAKED BEAN5 No. 2. 

Pick over and wash 1 quart of beans, put into an earthen 
bowl; pour over 2 quarts cold water; add 1 teaspoonful salt; 
let stand over night; in the morning wash in 2 waters; put 
into kettle of cold water; boil slowly 1 hour; put into bean 
pot; add V2 cup molasses, V2 pound salt pork, 1 teaspoonful 
salt; fdl up with boiling water; cover and put in oven, not too 
hot; bake 24- hours, filling up the pot as is needed with boiling 
water. Joskphink. 

*• I am fttill of the opinion that I paid an unrea- 
Hon.'ibU* price for that plate of baked beans." 

— Telegram, 



VEGETABLES. 



MRS. GEO. M. HOWE. 




BOILED NEW POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes carefully so as not to break the skin. 
Pare once around each potato the longest way. Put them 
into boiling water and let them boil till you can pierce them 
easily wijth a fork. Drain the water from the kettle and raise 
the lid and set them on the stove to dry for a minute. Remove 
the rest of the skin. Put them in a warm covered dish, and 
carry to the table. 

BOILED OLD POTATOES. 

Remove all the skin of the potatoes. Soak in cold water 
several hours. Putl tablespoonful of salt into enough boiling 
water to cover them. Boil until done. Drain all the water 
from the kettle, raise the lid and put on the stove to dry. 
Take into a heated covered dish and serve at once. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare the potatoes as for boiled old potatoes. Mash in 
the kettle in which they were boiled, season well with butter, 
salt and pepper, and cream if you have it, if not use a little 



78 COOKERY CRAFT. 



heated milk to moisten. Use a wire masher as it makes them 
light and creamy. Pour into a well heated dish. Do not 
smooth them over as that will make them heav}'. 

POTATO BALLS. 

One pint of hot mashed potatoes highly seasoned with salt, 
pepper, celery salt, chopped pai slev and butter. Moisten with a 
little cream. Beat 1 Q\^y^ light, add part of it to the potatoes. 
Shape into smooth round balls. Placed on a buttered tin, 
brush over with the remainder of the Qgg and bake until 
brown. The parsley may be omitted. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes with a brush, taking care not to break 
the skin. Dry them before putting into the oven. Allow 
three-fourths of an hour for them to bake. As soon as they 
are done pinch them to break the skin and allow the steam to 
escape. Serve in an open dish without covering. 

"The axiom of the Azamazuluisthatacontiaually 
stuffed body cannot see invisible things." — Tyler ^ 
Primitive Culture. 

STUFFED POTATOES. ^ 

Bake potatoes of medium size, cut a piece of the -^fcin from 
the flat side of the potatoes. Remove the inside, mash, and 
mix with it any highly seasoned meat, chopped fine, also a 
seasoning of butter, salt and pepper. Fill the skins rounding 
full. Set in the oven to brown over. If preferred leave out the 
meat. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Put in your frying pan V2 cup of cream and V2 cup of milk. 
Let them come to a boil, stir 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch into 
2 tablespoonfuls of cold milk, and pour into your boiling 
cream, to thicken it. Let it boil one minute. Season well 
with butter, salt and pepper, then add your cold boiled 
potatoes which have previously been cut into dice. Let them 
cook three or four minutes and they are ready for the table. 



VEGETABLES. 79 



LYONNAISe. POTATOES. 

Cut 1 pint of cold boiled potatoes into dice and season 
with salt and pepper. Fry 1 taBlespoonful of minced onion in 
1 tablespoonful of butter until it is a light brown, add the 
potatoes and stir with a fork until all the butter is absorbed, 
being careful not to break them. Add a tablespoonful of chop- 
ped parsley and serve hot. The parsley may be omitted. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Pare raw potatoes and cut in long narrow strips. Let 
soak an hour or more in cold salted water. Drain well and fry 
in deep, hot lard until a nice brown. Dredge with salt. 

Miss Flora Johnson. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

F'our large potatoes sliced very thin ; let remain in cold 
water an hour or more, then drain and dry between two 
towels. Drop into a kettle of smoking hot lard, a large 
handful at a time ; stir with a fork to prevent them from 
adhering to the kettle or to each other. Remove with a 
strainer as soon as they are a light brown, and sprinkle with 
salt. Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Sweet potatoes should be baked or boiled the same as 
Irish potatoes except the skin should never be cut until after 
they are cooked. In serving baked sweet potatoes, always 
cover the dish with a napkin, or they may be rolled separately 
in doilies, and one laid beside each plate. 

• WARMED OVER SWEET POTATOES. 

Take a small pudding dish or a round cake tin and into it 

put 1 tablespoonful of butter. When melted put in 1 cup of 

cold sliced sweet potatoes, sprinkle over them 2 tablespoonfuls 

of sugar, add V2 cup of hot water. Put into the oven and bake 

until the potatoes begin to brown. 

Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 



80 COOKHRY CRAFT. 



SUMMER SQUASH. 

Wash and cut into convenient pieces, leavini;^ both skin and 
seeds. Boil in salted water one-half hour, or until it will pierce 
easily with a fork. Place a strainer cloth over the colander, 
pick the squash into it, press out all the water, put into a dish 
and season with butter, salt and pepper. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Pare the s(|uash and with a spoon scrape out the seeds 
and steam until soft. If the shell be hard, split the squash, 
scrape out the seeds and steam until done; then remove all 
the soft part from the shell: mash and season with butter, 
salt and a little suf^ar. If the squash be dry add a spoonful 
of cream. Squash may be baked in theshell and then seasoned 
as above. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel th(J onions and drop into a kettle of boiling salted 
water; boil ten minutes and change the water; boil half an 
hour or until tender; drain in a colander and press all the 
water out; put into a dish and season well with butter, salt, 
pepper and a teaspoonfid of thick *;weet cream. 

"That this substance exists we know 1)ecause the 
science of psycholoi^^y by logical necessity lands us on 
the platform of ontology ; " — we also know it by the 
sense of smell. 

CREAMED ONIONS. 

Boil onions till tender ; then lay them in an earthen bak- 
ing dish ; cover with drawn butter gravy ; over the whole place 
a layer of bread or cracker crumbs moistened with milk and 
seasoned with pepper and salt; add bits of butter; bake till 
crust is brown. Mrs. Geo. W. Kyburg. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over them to remove the skins ; cut in 
slices and stew in an agate kettle fifteen minutes; add salt, 
butter, pepper and sugar, if desired, or vinegar if preferred; 
a little onion is an addition. 



VEGETABLES. 81 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut from the stem end, with a sharp knife, a thin slice ; 
make a little hole in the tomatoes; put into each a piece of 
butter, some salt and pepper; put on a tin plate and bake twen- 
ty minutes; a little onion juice in each tomato is an addition. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

To be prepared as scalloped oysters, only put in water 
instead of milk, and sprinkle a little sugar on each layer of 
tomatoes. Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

BOILED SWEET CORN No. 1. 

Remove the husks and silk fibre; put into boiling water 
and cook from ten to fifteen minutes. Have a brisk fire so 
that it will commence boiling as soon as plunged into the water. 
Com on the cob cannot be boiled in less than ten minutes and 
never should be boiled more than fifteen minutes. 

BOILED SWEET CORN No. 2.' 

Cut through each row of kernels with a sharp knife, then 
with the back of the knife scrape from the cob. Put 1 cup of 
boiling water into your stew pan to 1 pint of corn. Let it 
boil five minutes, stirring constantly to prevent sticking to the 
pan. Season well with butter, salt, pepper and cream. 

QREEN CORN OYSTERS. 

Cut through each row of kernels with a sharp knife, then 
with the back of the knife press out the pulp, leaving the hull 
on the cob. To 1 pint of corn pulp add 1 Qg^ beaten well, Mf 
teaspoonful of salt, V2 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 tablespoonful 
ofmilkand2 tablespoonfuls flour, or suflBcient flour to make 
a thin batter. Put a tablespoonful in a place on a well 
heated and buttered griddle, fry until browned well on each 
side. When taken from the griddle butter them well and serve 
immediately. 
7 



82 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SHELLED BEANS. 

One-third of a pound of salt pork, 1 quart of shelled beans. 
Cut the pork into strips, put into the kettle and boil one-half 
hour. Add the beans and boil until tender. Let the water boil 
nearly away. Add salt a few minutes before taking them from 
the kettle. Season them with butter, and cream if you like. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Succotash is made by mixing equal quantities of shelled 
beans and corn cut from the cob. Cook the beans by the rule 
given for shelled beans, using one-half the amount of beans and 
pork. Cut the corn from the cob by scoring with a sharp knife 
through each row of kernels, and scrape out with the back of 
the knife, being careful not to get any of the hull. Add the 
corn when the beans are nearlv done. Cook ten minutes. 
Season with butter, salt, pepper and cream. 

STRING BEANS. 

Remove the strings if there are any, break or cut into inch 
pieces, cook in salted water from two to three hours, drain, 
season with butter, salt, pepper and cream, and serve hot, or 
serve cold seasoned with salt as a salad, using a salad dressing. 

PEAS. 

Wash the pods before shelling and the peas will need no 
washing. Pick over to remove the fine particles. Put them 
into boiling water and let them boil until nearly done, then 
add salt and let the water boil nearly away. Season with but- 
ter, salt and cream. If the peas are a little old, put in a lump 
of soda half the size of a pea and a tcaspoonful of sugar when 
you put them on to boil. If to be used as a garnish for lamb, 
cook until the water is nearly out and season with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Select a small firm cabbage, remove the outside leaves, cut 
in quarters and cook in -salted boiling water from three to fowr 



VEGBTA liLES. H3 



hours. Drain well, chop and season with butter and cream, or 
pour over a drawn butter grav)', and sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs and bake until the crumbs are browned. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

Chop the cabbage, after removing the outside leaves and 
core, and cook one hour in salted water; drain in colander and 
season with butter, cream and pepper. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil in well salted water three-quarters of an hour, drain 
thoroughly, put bits of butter and pepper over it and pour 
over a heated thick cream, if you have it, or make a rich cream 
with 1 cup of rich milk, 1 teaspoonful flour, a piece of butter 
half the size of an egg, salt and pef)per. Or, after boiling as 
before, place in an earthen baking dish, pour over 1 cup of the 
made cream, grate over some cheese, sprinkle with cracker 
crumbs moistened with butter, put in the oven and brown. 

Cauliflower is also good served as a salad. Boil in strong 
salted water, let it get cold then serve with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

** Herbs and other country messes which the neat- 
handed Phyllis dresses." — Milton. 

3PINACH. 

Wash the spinach very carefully, boil in salted water 
twenty minutes. Drain and chop fine, add 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, V4 cup of sweet cream and a f)inch of salt, put in a 
saucepan and cook over a slow fire twent}' minutes, stir con- 
stantly, and serve on slices of thin buttered toast. 

Mrs. Hknkv Faikhanks. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash and break into inch pieces; when it strings in break- 
ing it is too tough to use. Cook in boiling salted water one 
half hour or until done, drain well in a colander. Put into 
the double boiler a piece of butter, 1 cup of cream and some 



84 COOKERY CRAFT. 



salt ; when the butter is melted, pour in the asparagus, let 
stand a minute and serve as peas. Or, cook and drain as 
above, toast several slices of bread, pour the asparagus over 
each slice, make a rich cream sauce and pour over the whole. 
Asparagus served with a dressing as a salad is also very 
nice. 

5EA KALE. 

This is one of the finest vegetables for greens. Pick the 
large leaves and full length of the broad white stems, pick over 
carefully and wash. Boil one hour and a half in well salted 
water, take into the colander to drain. When well drained put 
on a platter and season well with butter and a sprinkling of 
salt. Garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

PARSNIP3. 

Parsnips must be washed thoroughly with a brush. Boil 
in salted water one hour, cut them in halves, if small, or, if 
large, slice through them lengthwise, and fry them brown on a 
well buttered frying pan. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Take cold boiled parsnips and slice crosswise one-eighth of 
an inch thick. Make a rich cream as for creamed potatoes, 
put in your sliced parsnips and let boil three minutes. Serve in 
a well heated nappy. , 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil parsnips until tender, dip them in water and slip the 
skins off, mash and season well with butter, salt and pepper. 
Shape into small flat oval cakes, roll in flour and fry in butter. 

TURNIPS. 

Boil in salted water (or steam) until tender, mash and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper. Add a sprinkling of sugar 
if you like, or cut into dice and follow the rule for creamed 
parsnips. 



VEGETABLES. S5 



BEETS. 

Wash, but do not trim or break any part of the skin. 
Young beets will cook in an hour, but old beets require a 
longer time. If wilted they never become tender. When cooked 
dip them in a pan of cold water and rub the skins off. Slice 
young beets, sprinkle with sugar, salt and pepper, put bits of 
butter over them, set in the oven for a minute and serve hot. 
Or they may be cut into dice and served with cream, or make a 
rich cream sauce and pour over them, or they may be served 
in vinegar. 



PIES AND PASTRY. 



MRS. G. E. GOODALL. 



PIE PASTE NO. 1. 

1 pint flour. 1 cup of butter and lard mixed. 

1 tcaspoonful of baking powder. 

Mix the baking powder with the flour, then work in half 
the shortening and a little salt, mix with icewater. For the 
top crust roll out the paste, spread on the rest of shortening, 
sprinkle with flour. This quantity makes two pies. 

Mrs. p. D Blodgett. 

pie paste no. 2. 

4V^ tablespoonfuls lard. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

2Y2 tablespoonfuls warm V2 teaspoonful salt. 

water. V2 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1 tablespoonful sour cream or milk. 
Flour to roll out. For one pie. 

Mrs. William Johnson. 

pie paste no. 3. 

For four pies take 6 cups flour and L scant cup of lard. 
Chop the two together with a knife, add a little salt and 1 
teaspoonful of cream tartar. Dissolve V2 teaspoonful soda in 



PIBS AND PASTRY, 87 



a little water, then moisten the whole with cold water. When 
the upper crust is rolled out spread lard over it, then sift on 
flour and press it down with the palm of the hand. Put on 
flour so it will not be sticky, then mark and put it on the pie 
and hold under the cold water faucet until the water has 
covered the pie, then bake. S. A. M. 

TART SHELLS. 

V2 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V2 cup lard. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

3 tablespoonfuls cold water. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. White of 1 tgg. 

Mix as hard as pie crust. 

BANBERRIES. l^' 

2 cups raisins, seeded and 1 cup powdered sugar, 
chopped. 1 lemon. 

Grate outside of lemon ; chop the rest fine. Cut rounds of 
nice pastry ; fill half full with the mixture and cover like turn- 
overs, pinching the edges carefully. Place on a tin and bake a 
delicate brown. 

AMBER TARTS. 

Line patty pans with pufl* paste and bake. Next fill them 
half full of any kind of fruit jam. Beat the whites of 2 eggs 
to a stiff froth. Add 8 drops of the essence of almond and 
a very little sugar; put this over the jam and return to oven 
and brown slightly. 

CREAM TARTS. 

Fill tart shells with whipped cream, then drop a teaspoon- 
ful of jelly on the top of each. Mrs. P. D. Blodgett. 

** Friends, this is an age of inquiry. Can any one 
tell who first imprisoned our luscious fruits in a paste 
of grease and flour, baptized the thing in fire, and 
named it pie?'' ^ Home Life in Tweenit. 



88 COOKERY CRAFT. 



APPLE PIE. 

Choose nice tart apples; pare, quarter, core and slice. 
Line a pie plate with good paste. Lay the apples evenly on 
them, cover with a scant cup of sugar, put bits of butter over 
sugar, and a little nutmeg or cinnamon. Cover with top crust 
and bake slowly twenty minutes. 

FROSTED APPLE PIE. 

U^' 6 medium-sized apples, steamed and sifted. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Sweeten to taste, flavor with lemon extract. Bake with 
one crust. When the pie is baked and partially cool, frost 
with the whites of 2 eggs and a little sugar. Return to 
oven and brown slightly. Mrs. J. B. Braley. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Stew the berries and sweeten. Pour into pie plates lined 
with good paste; put bits of butter on top; dredge with flour; 
cover with top crust. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

1 pint sifted pumpkin. 1 cup sugar. 

1 pint cream. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonfiil ginger. 

If milk is used put in butter the size of an egg. 

Mrs. p. D. Blodgett. 

rhubarb pie. 

1 cup chopped rhubarb. 1 Qgg, 

1 cup sugar. Butter the size of a walnut. 

Bake with two crusts. 

CIDER PIE. 

4 tablespoonfuls boiled cider. 1 cup sugar. 
1 tablespoonful corn starch. 1 egg. 

5 tablespoonfuls of water. Flavor with lemon. 

Bake without a cover and frost. 

Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 



PIES AND PASTRY. 89 



"They don't make pies as they used to when I 
was a boy." — Harriot. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. 

1 quart milk. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup cocoanut. Yolks of 5 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful corn starch. Salt to taste. 

Use whites of eggs for frosting or meringue. Makes two 
pies. D. L. W. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

2 tablespoonfuls cocoanut. 2 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 pint milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. Butter the size of a walnut. 

Cook the cocoanut in milk slowly; add sugar and yolks of 
eggs well beaten together; next the cornstarch with a little 
cold milk. Line a pie plate with crust and bake, after which 
fill with the above and frost with the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Spread on pie and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and cocoanut. Set in the oven and brown 
slightly. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

2 pounds fruit. 1 pound sugar. 

Stew as for sauce. Pour into plates lined with paste. Put 
in bits of butter. Cover with strips of paste and bake. 

CREAM PIE. 

2 cups milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

V2 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

.Flavor with vanilla. 

Stir sugar and butter to a cream; add the eggs well 
beaten. Bake with one crust. Mrs. P. D. Blodgett. 

"There are more things in heaven and earth, 
Horatio, 
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy." — Ha/n/et. 



90 COOKBR^ CRAFT. 



MINCE PIE. 

2 cups meat. 2 cups raisins. 

3 cups maple sugar. 6 cups apple. 

1 cup boiled cider. 2 cups pot liquor. 

1 cup chopped suet. ^ cup sweet pickle juice. 

4 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 teaspoonful allspice. 
4 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 2 teaspoonfuls cloves. 

Mix all thoroughly together and let it cook slowly four 
hours. Mrs. Esther Carr. 

CU5TARD PIE NO. 1. 

1 cup milk. V2 cup cream. 

y2 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

Boil the milk, ])cat the eggs light, stir into boiling milk, 
then add cream and bake in deep plate. 

Mrs. a. C. Babbitt. 

"And she's wise as she is winsome, and as good 
as she is wise, 
And, besides her other graces, she is good at baking 
pies." 

CUSTARD PIE NO. 2. 

A good custnrd pie can be made from the yolks of 4 eggs 
when the whites have been used for cake. Add % cup sugar 
and 2 cups milk. Great care must be used not to bake too 
much. Mrs. A. D. Nelson. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

1 cup bread crumbs. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup vinegar. ^/^ cup butter. 

V2 cup molasses. % cup raisins. 

All kinds of spice. 

Mrs. Goodall. 
currant pie. 

1 cup mashed currants. 1 tablespoonful water. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Bake with one crust and frost with the whites of eggs 

lightly beaten with a little powdered sugar. 



PIES AND PASTRY. 91 



SQUASH PIE. 

V^ cup of squash. V^ cup sugar. 

1 egg. A piece of butter size of a 
A bit of salt and pepper. walnut. 

1 cup milk. A little allspice and cinnamon. 
Bake with one crust. Mrs. M.\rtha Smith. 

PEACH PIE. 

Pare and stone the fruit. Cut in small pieces. Line a 
plate with paste, put in peaches, cover with a scant cup of 
sugar, put bits of butter over the top, dredge with flour, then 
put on top crust and bake. 

RAISIN PIE. 

1 cup raisins. Juice of 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. . Butter the size of a walnut. 

Boil and stone the raisins, then chop and add butter. 
Bake with two crusts. 

ORANGE PIE. 

1 cup sugar. Pulp and juice of 2 oranges. 

1 Clip milk. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Stir the eggs with sugar and a little of the grated orange 
peel and a tablespoonful of butter; add milk, and lastly the 
orange. Bake with one crust. After the pie is cool spread the 
whites of eggs well beaten, with a little sugar on top. Return 
to oven and brown slightly. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

1 pint of boiled and mashed 1 cup milk. 

potatoes. V2 cup butter. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

3 eggs. 

Pour the milk on potato and put through a colander. 
Beat the yolks of eggs light, cream the butter and sugar; add 
vanilla, and, last of all, the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake with crust, and when done sprinkle sugar over 
top. 



92 COOKERY CRAFT. 



** A more convenient, labor-saving medium than 
this excellent compilation of" Dates can scarcely be 
found in any language." — New York Tribune, Book 
Review. 

DATE PIE. 

Simmer slowly 1 pound of dates in milk to cover them. 
Sift them through a sieve to free them from the stones ; add V2 
cup of sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, a little cinnamon, and 1 pint 
of boiled milk. Bake in deep lined plates as for custard pie. 
Whip the whites and frost, having flavored the frosting with 
vanilla. Brown nicely. This is sufficient for two pies. 

Mrs. R. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



MRS. ANNIE T. NORTON. 



FEATHER CAKE FOR DESSERT. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespbonful melted butter. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

V2 cup sweet milk. 1^ cups flour. 

Flavor with nutmeg and eat warm with whipped cream. 

QINGERBREAD FOR DESSERT. 

V2 cup butter and V2 cup sour milk. 

V2 cup sugar beaten together. 2 scant cups flour. 
y2 cup molasses. 1 even teaspoonful soda. 

Serve warm with whipped cream. 

Mrs. p. D. Blodgett. 

sweet short cake. 

Butter about the size of a small egg, and % cup of sugar 
beaten together for eight or ten minutes, then break in 1 egg 
and beat three minutes. Dissolve 1 small teaspoonful of soda 
in V4 cup of milk and 2 small teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
sifted with IV^ cups flour. Do not make the batter stiff", but 
quite thin. Cook in a quick oven in two jelly tins well buttered. 
Spread with strawberries same as plain short cake. 

Mrs. Hattie Blodgett Belknap. 



94 COOKERY CRAFT. 



ALL THE YEAR ROUND PUDDING. 

Line a pic dish with paste, spread on 3 ounces of an}' kind 
of jam, (raspberries the best), then beat well in a basin the 
following: Three ounces bread crumbs, the same of sugar and 
butter, the rind and juice of V2 a large lemon. Add this to the 
pastry and jam and bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. W. T. Hortox. 

" A man cannot have a clear mind who refuses 
apple dumpling." — Chas. Lamb. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

V2 dozen apples. 1 pint flour. 

2 even teaspoonfuls cream tar- 1 even teaspoonful salt. 

tar. Enough water to make a stiff 

1 even teaspoonful soda. batter. 

Pare and core the apples, leaving them whole. Take a 
spoonful of the dough on the kneading board and roll or pat 
with the hands until it is large enough to cover the apple. 
Wrap it around the apple and place on a buttered plate. Pro- 
ceed in like manner with each apple until all are covered. Set 
the plate into the steamer and let it steam from thirty to 
forty minutes, according to size of apples. 

Mrs. Geo. M. Howe. 

" Ever a plain, homely dowdv." — Pepys' Diary, 

PAN DOWDY. 

1 cup brown sugar. 1 cup molasses. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. V2 teaspoonful clove. 
1 saltspoonful allspice. ^2 saltspoonful mace. 

Enough tart apples, cored, pared and quartered, to fill a 
three-(|uart earthen pan. Butter the pan well, put in the 
apples, and stir in the seasoning. Cover it with crust and 
bake as long as you can without burning. When done, take 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 95 

off the crust, break it up in small pieces and mix with the hot 
baked apple. Set all away to ^^row cold. 

CRU5T. 

1 quart flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 scant pint sweet milk. Mrs. Merrill. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

1 quart scalded milk. Vz teaspoonful each salt, ginger, 

V2 cup molasses. cinnamon. 

% cup corn meal. Butter size of walnut. 

Add a cup of cold milk just before putting in oven. Bake 
one and one-half hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Goo I) all. 

FIG PUDDING. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup chopped suet. 

1 pint milk. 3Vi cups flour. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. V2 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 pint figs. 

Pour into buttered mold and steam five hours. Serve with 
Liquid Sauce. Mrs. T. C. F'lktciier. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cup suet, chopped fine. 1 cup sour milk. 

1 cup molasses. 4 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. Salt and spice to taste. 

Steam three hours. One cup raisins improve it. 

Mrs. a. Simi'vSux. 
english pudding. 
1 cup sour milk. 1 cup raisins. 

% cup chopped pork or ¥2 cup 3 cups flour. 

butter. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

% cup molasses. 

Steam three hours. Serve with Sour Sauce. 

Mrs. B. E. Carr. 



96 COOKERY CRAFT. 



HEIDELBURQ PUDDINQ. 

••The secret of making this, observefl the Count, 
has been kept in our family for man^' centuries — taste 
it." — Count of Monte Bent. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup sweet milk. 

2'^ cups flour. 1 cup suet or butter. 

1 cup raisins. 1 egg. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 1 tcaspoonful each cinnamon 
V2 teaspoonful each cloves and and allspice. 

nutmeg. 
Steam three hours and serve with pudding sauce. 

Mrs. Emma C. Fairhanks. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

1 brick loaf bread, cut in slices % teaspoonful cloves. 

thin as a knife. V2 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 pint bowl raisins (stoned). 1 teaspoonful salt. 
4- eggs. 4 cups milk. 

3 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 2 cups molasses. 

Butter pan well, lay in alternate layers of bread and 
raisins, (occasionally buttering a slice of bread), until the dish 
is full. Pour on 3 cups of milk and let it stand over night. 
Beat Qg^, add molasses, spice, and the other cup of milk, and 
pour over the pudding in the morning. Tie a wet cloth over 
the top and put in a kettle of water. Boil five or six hours. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

ENGLISH I»LUM PUDDING. 

"On the 12th of May, 1718, James Austin began- 
to cook his plum pudding at The Red Lion. It weighed 
1000 pounds. He cooked it 14 days, but before he 
could get it over to The Boar's Head for his guests, 
the hungry Londoners seized and devoured it, while 
the band played ' What lumps of pudding my mother 
gave me.' " — Larwood and Hotten, 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 97 

RICE PUDDING No. 1. 

V2 cup rice. 1 quart milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Steam until soft. Add thej^olksof 4 eggs, 4tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, 1 cup of raisins, stir together. While hot pour in a 
deep dish and bakefifteen or twenty minutes. Beat the whites 
of the eggs and pour over the top. Set in the oven and brown 
a little. Mrs. J. M. Alvord. 

RICE PUDDING No. 2. 

1 cup rice. 1 cup sugar. 
3 pints sweet milk. 5 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfulsextractoflemon. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Cook the rice in the milk. When it is soft stir in the salt 
and yolks of the eggs. Set in the oven a few minutes. For 
the frosting take whites of the eggs, the sugar and lemon. 
Brown lightly. Mrs. Crawford Ranney. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

1 cup molasses. 3 cups flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup melted butter. A pinch of salt. 

1 cup stoned raisins. V2 teaspoonful each cinnamon, 

V2 cup currants. grated nutmegs and cloves. 

Steam three hours. Equally good without the fruit. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

POOR MAN'3 RICE. 

Put 1 quart of sweet milk into a kettle to heat. Take 3 
cups of flour, break 1 egg into it and rub them together. When 
the milk boils, salt to taste, and stir into it the prepared flour. 
To be eaten at once. S. A. Mather. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 

- ^ggs. % cup sugar. 

1 pint boiling milk. 2 tablespoonfuls grated choco- 

2 cups bread crumbs. late. 

Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 
8 



98 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CHERRY PUDDING. 

Mix together 2 eups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and water enough for a soft dough. Butter cups and 
drop in a little dough, some stoned cherries, then dough, to half 
fill the cup. Steam one-half hour. Eat with sweetened cream. 

Mrs. Annie T. Horton. 

blueberry pudding. 

Two cups of bread flour, with 2 teaspoonfuls Royal bak- 
ing powder, piece of butter size of an egg rubbed in the flour, 
and sweet milk enough to make a thick dough. Stir in 1 pint 
of blueberries, and steam one and one-half hours. Serve with 
cream and maple sugar. Mrs. Henry Albee. 

"Come, give us a tasteof vourquality." — Hamlet. 
WATERMELON PUDDING. 

1 egg. 2% cups flour. 

V2 cup sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 cup strawberry juice. 1 large teaspoonful butter. 
V2 teaspoonful salt. 1 cup raisins. 

Mix the baking powder and salt with the flour and stir in 
the raisins. Add the strawberry juice, then stir in the egg and 
sugar, well beaten together, and add the melted butter. Steam 
one and one-half hours. Serve with Savory Sauce. 

Edith E. Ranney. 

5weet corn pudding. 

12 ears of sweet corn. 1 quart milk. 

2 eggs. V2 cup flour. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. A little salt. 

Draw knife through each row of corn, cutting every kernel ; 
then scrape out the corn, leaving the hulls on the cob. Mix 
this corn with milk, add the eggs, beaten light, with the flour, 
then the sugar and salt. Put in tins one inch and a half thick, 
and bake two hours or longer. To be eaten with butter. 

Mrs. I. J. Robinson. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 99 

APRICOT PUDDING. 

1 cup sweet milk. I heaping teaspoonful baking 

1 egg. powder. 

V2 cup flour. 1 heaping tahlespoonful butter. 

Put a spoonful of the batter in each cup, then 4 halves of 
canned apricots ; turn the rest of the batter over them ; steam 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve with sugar and whipped 
cream. Mrs. Etta Graham Stanhope. 

3NOW BALL PUDDING. 

Vi cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. Whites of 4 eggs. 

V2 cup milk. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

After the butter is well creamed, put the sugar with it 
gradually. ,Mix the baking powder and flour and add alter- 
nately with the milk. Then add the whites of eggs beaten stifl". 
Fill cups half full and steam twenty minutes or half an hour. 
This amount makes a dozen. When you take them from the 
cups for the table, roll in powdered sugar and cocoanut. 

Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 

'* The woman who maketh a good pudding in 
silence is better than she who maketh a tart reply." 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

1 cup tapioca. 1 pint milk or little more. 

^ eggs. IV^ cups sugar. 

Little nutmeg. Little piece butter and salt. 

Put the tapioca in cold water and set on back of stove and 
cook slowly until done. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. H. F. Estabrooks. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

V2 cup tapioca. 1 quart milk. 

V2 cup sugar. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

V2 saltspoonful salt. V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Soak the tapioca in hot water until soft, scald the milk in 
a double boiler, when hot eidd the tapioca, and cook until 

513269B 



100 COOKERY CRAFT. 



transparent. Beat the eggs, and sugar, and salt, and add, and 
eook until it thiekens like boiled custard ; when cool add the 
flavoring. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 3 
tablespoonfuls sugar, and after beating lay on top of pudding 
and brown in oven. Mrs. C. E. Peck. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

1 pint milk. V2 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 2 tablespoonfuls Baker's choco- 
^ ^^E^- ^^^^ melted and boiled with 

Vanilla flavoring. the milk. 

Line a dish with marshmallows, pour custard over them 
while hot, and add the whites of eggs, with 1 tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar. Dot the top with marshmallows. 

Mrs. Henry»Albee. 
chocolate pudding. 

Make a cornstarch pudding with a quart of milk, 3 table- 
spoonfuls cornstarch and 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. When 
done, remove about half, and flavor to taste, and then to that 
remaining in the kettle, add an eg^ beaten very light, and 4 
tablespoonfuls of chocolate, grated and dissolved in a little 
milk. Put in a mold, alternating the dark and light. Serve 
with whipped cream or boiled custard. 

Mrs. O. C. Chamberlin. 

blackberry flummery. 

Blackberry flummery is made by placing a pint of ripe 
blackberries in a saucepan with a pint of water, let boil slowly 
without stirring for ten minutes. Moisten 2 tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch with cold water, stir into the berries, let thicken, 
take from the fire and add V2 teacup of sugar. When cool, 
serve with sugar and cream. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

One pint water, 3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, whites of 2 or 3 eggs. Let the water be 



PUDDINGS A ND SA UCES. 101 

hot in double boiler and thicken with the starch. First wet 
the cornstarch with a little cold water, add the sugar and a 
little salt, cook five minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, and when ready to take from the stove, add the 
beaten whites, stir briskly and pour into a mold to cool. Make 
a custard, using the yolks of the eggs, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, 
1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste and flavor with vanilla. When 
cold pour around the mold on deep dish, or serve separately. 

Sarah Daniei.. 

A DISH OF HAPPINESS. 

Take 1 large spoonful of usefulness, I cup of love for mother, 
another cup of love for yourlittle brothers and sisters, a whole 
pound of wishes to make others happy, and a very small tea- 
spoonful of wishing to be hai)py yourself; mix it all up together, 
and see if it doesn't make the nicest kind of an afternoon for 
anybody. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

V^ box gelatine. Whites of 3 eggs, 

V2 cup sugar. 1 coffee cup cold water. 

Juice of 1 large lemon. 

Soak the gelatine one hour in the cup of cold water, then 
set on stove until dissolved. When cooled to the consistency 
of cream, beat until white and foamy. Have the whites of the 
eggs beaten light, and add to the gelatine, then the sugar, 
and lastly the lemon juice. Set in a cold place to harden. 

CUSTARD FOR ABOVE. 

1 pint milk. Yolks of 8 eggs. 

V2 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Scald the milk, add the eggs and sugar beaten light, steam 
until it thickens, then add vanilla. Mrs. Paul S. Cartkr. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

V2 box gelatine, soaked one hour in V2 pint milk. 

Boil 1 quart of milk, to this add the dissolved gelatine and 



102 COOKERY CRAFT. 



let it boil, then add the yolks of 8 eggs. Beat the whites of the 
same to a stiff froth and add to the custard after takingit from 
the stove, stirring it in thoroughly. Season with vanilla, and 
add a little salt. A. M. P. 

PUDDING. 

1 pint sweet milk. 2 eggs. 

% cup sugar. V^ box gelatine. 

1 dessertspoonful vanilla. 

Cover gelatine with cold water, stand one hour. Beat 
sugar and yolks of eggs well together, add to milk heated in 
steamer, stir until soft custard, stir in gelatine and flavoring. 
When custard is cold, but not hard, add the whites of eggs 
beaten light. Beat all together until foamy. Harden in mold. 
Serve with whipped cream. H. P. 

** Requiring, with various tastes, things very 
unlike." — Horace. 

SAVORY PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 cup sweet milk. 1 large tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 1 cup sugar. 

Salt. White of 1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Boil the milk and thicken with flour, worked smooth in a 
little cold water. Cook five minutes, and add a little salt. 
Cream the butter and sugar and add the vanilla, beat into the 
cool thickened milk, then gradually stir in the beaten white of 
the egg. * Edith E. Ranney. 

FROTH SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup boiling water. 

Vs cup butter beaten to a cream. Juice of 1 lemon. 

1 Q^g beaten to a froth. Mrs. 0. C. Chamberlin. 

QUICK PUDDING SAUCE. 

Use 1 cupful of any fruit juice, fresh or canned, add Va cup- 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 103 



ful sugar and 1 teaspoonful cornstarch. Boil five minutes and 
strain. Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar. Butter the size of an egg. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Mix these well together, pour in 1 cup of boiling water 
and let boil until thick enough, then put in enough vinegar and 
nutmeg to flavor well. Mrs. S. J. Burbank. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

V^ cup butter. 3 tablespoonfuls cream or milk. 

V2 cup powdered sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Wash the butter and cream it. Add slowly the powdered 
sugar, then add the cream, a very little at a time, also the 
vanilla. Place where it will be cold until you serve the pud- 
ding. Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 

** The good things of life are not to be had singly, 
but come to us with a mixture." — Cbas. Lamb. 

GOLDEN SAUCE. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 egg. 

1 gill powdered sugar. V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually beat into it the 
powdered sugar, next add the yolk of the egg and beat well. 
Beat the white of the egg to a stifl" froth, and stir into the 
sauce. Add the flavor. Place the bowl in a pan of boiling 
water and cook four minutes, stirring constantly. 

Miss Eva S. Burke. 

pudding sauce. 

Whites of 2 eggs (beaten), add 1 cup sugar and beat, add 
the yolks well beaten, and a cup of cream. A. T. H. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 teacup sugar. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teacup boiling water. 



104 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Beat egg and sugar thorou^jhly together. Make a thick 
boiling starch with the flour, water and salt and pour into the 
well beaten egg and sugar. Flavor with vanilla. To be served 
with Apple Dumplings or Cottage Pudding. 

Mrs. George M. Howe. 

fairy butter. 

1 cup white sugar. White of 1 egg. 

V^ cup butter. 

Beat all together until light and creamy. Flavor with 
nutmeg. A. T. H. 

50UR SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar. 1 egg (well beaten). 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Add V2 cup hot water, stirring 
(creamed). all the time. 

V2 cup vinegar. A. T. H. 

SAUCE. 

1 cup sweet cream. 4 tablespoonfuls of maple or 

Little nutmeg. granulated sugar. 

L. C. Mather. 

SAUCE. 

1 egg. 1 cup white sugar, (well 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. beaten together). 

Just before serving add 1 cup of hot sweet milk. Stir well. 

Gorilla C. 

"II n'est Sauce que d'appetit." 

HARD SAUCE FOR STEAMED PUDDING. 

1 cup powdered sugar. White of 1 egg. 

V2 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Beat the white of the egg 
very stiff and whip in lightly. Add the vanilla. Heap on a 
pretty dish roughly and set on the ice an hour before serving. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 



PUDDINGS A ND SA UCBS. 1 05 



5AUCE FOR 5NOW PUDDING. 

Beat together the yolks of (> eggs and Vj cup sugar, add to 
this 2 tahlespoonfuls milk and V2 teaspoonful salt. Put 1 pint 
milk into a double boiler, let it come to a boil and then stir in 
the eggs. Stir this two minutes, then take off and set in ice 
water. Flavor with vanilla. Mrs. J. W. Balcii. 



Creams, Sherbets, Fancy Dishes. 

Mt«« MASCL PAinSANKS. 




RASPBBKRV SPONOe. 

1 quart raspberries. 1 cup sugar. 

H pueka^^e gelatine. WIiitcHof 4 eggs. 

1'/^ cups water. juice of 1 lemon. 

Soak the gelutine in Vi cup of the water until soft. Wash 
the raspberries and add half the sugar to them. Boil the 
remainder of the sugar and water gently twenty minutes. 
Rub the raspberries through a sieve. Add the gelatine to the 
boiling syrup and take from the tire immediately ; then add the 
raspberry juice. Place in a pan of ice water and beat five 
minutes, add the whites of the eggs and beat until the mixture 
begins to thicken. Pour into molds and set away to harden. 
Serve with sugar and cream, Mrs. Jonathan Rohh. 



CREAMS, SHERUETS, FANCY DiSHES. 107 



*• In this inconvertability we neither acquire the 
functions of what we eat, nor impart our functions to 
what eats us — it is not likely, e. g., that a sponge 
would be to the stomach of Mr. Huxley anything 
more than Mr. Huxley would be to the stomach of a 
sponge." — Scientific Sophisms, 576. 

PEACH TAPIOCA. 

Drain 1 can of peaches, sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
let stand one hour. To the syrup add enough water to make 
3 cups. Boil and add IVi cups pearl tapioca, 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar and 1 saltspoonful salt, and cook until the tapioca is 
transparent. Line a mold with the sections of peaches, pour 
in the tapioca and bake in a pan of hot water thirty minutes. 
Cool and serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 
Two tablespoonfuls of gelatine, added when to be served cold, 
will make it keep its shape. Miss Mabel Fairbanks. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

1 pint cream. • V2 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. Sponge cake. 

Mix the cream, vanilla and sugar. Place the bowl in ice 
water, and when chilled whip to a stiff froth, and skim off the 
whip into a sieve. Drain and whip again that which has 
drained through. When nearly all whipped, line a glass dish 
with sponge cake or lady fingers, fill with the cream, garnish 
with cubes of any bright jelly and keep on ice until ready to 
serve. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

Vs box Cox's gelatine. 1 cup orange juice. 

Vs cup cold water. 1 lemon. 

Vs cup boiling water. Whites of 8 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. 

Dissolve gelatine in the cold water, then add the boiling 
water with the sugar, orange juice and some of the pulp, and 
the juice of the lemon. Bring just to a boil, remove from the 



lOS COOKERY CRAFT. 



fire and when quite cold and nearly stiff, beat in the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all together well and 
keep on ice until nearly time to serve; then pile up in the center 
of a dish lined with lady fingers or thin slices of sponge cake. 

Mrs. George W. Kyburg. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE. 

Remove the whip froml pint of cream and drain. Soak Va. 
box gelatine in Vi cup cream fifteen minutes and dissolve in Vs 
cup hot cream. \dd Vs cup powdered sugar, 1^ squares of 
Baker's chocolate melted and cooked until smooth with Vs cup 
sugar and 3 tablespoonfuls hot water. Stir until it thickens 
slightly, when the whip should be carefully folded in ; add 1 
teaspoonful vanilla. Line a mold with lady fingers placed 
about one-fourth inch apart, turn in the mixture and chill. 
This amount of charlotte will serve six or eight people. 

M. Fairbanks. 

COFFEE SPANISH CREAM. 

y2 pint milk. 5 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

V2 pint strong coffee. 3 eggs. 

V2 box gelatine. 

Put milk and gelatine in a double boiler and heat together 

until gelatine is dissolved ; then add coffee which has been 

strained and allowed to settle until perfectly clear ; then add 

yolks of eggs well beaten with sugar. Cook until it thickens, 

which may be fifteen minutes if the boiler is an earthen one; 

then remove from the fire and add the whites of the eggs beaten 

to a stiff froth. Beat all together, flavor with vanilla and set 

on ice to cool. Serve with cream and sugar. This must be 

made early in the morning for a dessert, and it is better to 

make it the day before it is wanted. 

Mrs. Henry G. Ely. 

oranoe cream. 

Cut up 4 oranges ipto small pieces and sprinkle with sugar. 
Make a thin custard, using 1 pint milk, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls 



CREAMS, SHERHETS, FANCY DISHES 109 



sugar and 1 teaspoonful cornstarch. When cold pour over the 
oranges and garnish with whipped cream. Keep in a cool 
place until ready to serve. Mrs. H. C. Bond. 

Or, make a thicker custard, and in place of whipped cream 
make a meringue of the whites of 3 eggs and 3 teaspoonfuls 
sugar, spread over the custard and just brown in the oven. 

LEMON JELLY AND STRAWBERRIES. 

Make lemon jelly with gelatine and pour into cups, filling 
them half full of jelly. Then fill up with strawberries or any 
other fruit. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. p. D. Blodgett. 

BLANC MANQE. 

Dissolve Vb box gelatine in V2 pint milk (over the teakettle.) 
While that is cooling whip 1 pint cream, add 1 cup sugar; fla- 
vor to taste; add the cooled milk and pour into a mold. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

"There were mounds of6/o'/non/e,alsocustard, some 
of the indolent fluid sort; others firm, in which every 
stroke of the spoon left a smooth, cofichoidal surface 
like the fracture of chalcedony." — Holmes. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Stew 3 large tart apples, cored and quartered but not 
pared, drain and rub through a siev^. Beat the whites of 3 
eggs stiff, add V2 cup fine granulated or pulverized sugar and 
beat again. Add the apple and beat till like snow. Pile Hght- 
ly in a glass dish, garnish with jelly and serve with a custard 
made as follows: 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Scald 1 pint milk. Beat the 3'olks of 3 eggs, add 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar and 1 saltspoonful salt and beat well. Pour 
part of hot milk upon the eggs and when well mixed pour back 
into double boiler and stir constantly till smooth and thick 



110 COOKERY CRAFT. 



like cream. Strain and when cool add V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. R. p. Fairbanks. 

SNOWBALL CUSTARD. 

Beat the whites ol 3 eggs stiff; make a little sweet, and 
boil in 1 pint milk, dipping them into the boiling milk in table- 
spoonfuls. As they rise, turn them and when done put into a 
glass dish. Then put the beaten yolks with 3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar into the milk. Stir until it thickens, remove from the 
fire and flavor with lemon or vanilla. Turn this custard 
around the white balls in the glass dish. 

Annette Mather. 

ice cream. 

1^/^ quarts milk. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. 

V2 pint cream. 2 eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in V2 pint cold milk ; heat the remainder 
of the milk and add the gelatine and yolks of eggs. When cool 
add the whites of the eggs well beaten and the cream, and any 
flavor desired. This will make 2 quarts. More cream can be 
used if desired. Mrs. Henry R. Albee. 

" In this the appetite is never satisfied except by 
most successful exertion of the faculties of research." 

— Argyle on Mind. 

PEACH ICE CREAM No. 1. 

One pint of peaches run through a sieve and sweetened to 
taste; 1 pint cream, 1 pint milk sweetened, whites of 2 eggs 
beaten stiff. Put milk and cream in the freezer; when it sets 
add peaches and freeze five minutes ; add the whites of eggs 
and freeze hard. Mrs. Pearl D. Blodgett. 

PEACH ICE CREAM No. 2. 

Take a pint of canned peaches, drain off the juice, cut up 
the fruit into small pieces and replace in the juice to which a 
pint of water has been added. Add 1 quart of cream and 
sweeten to taste. Freeze at once. Other fruit can be used in 



CREAMS. SHERBETS, FANC Y DISHES. Ill 

place of the peaches. Strawberries are especially delicious. If 
the cream is not very rich, milk can be substituted for the 
water. Mrs. Lyman P. Wood. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

One pint cream, 1 pint milk, yolks of 6 eggs beaten well with 

2 cups sugar. Add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with 

3 sliced bananas. Put in freezer and partly freeze, then add 2 
more sliced bananas, 1 tablespoonful vanilla and freeze hard. 
This makes 1 gallon. Mrs. Ernest A. Blodgett. 

MILK SHERBET. 

One quart milk, 1 pint sugar, full measure, 3 lemons. Mix 
lemon juice and sugar and let it stand. Chill the milk and 
just before freezing add the sugar and lemon. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Soak 1 tablespoonful gelatine in 1 cup cold water ten min- 
utes. Add 1 cup boiling water and when dissolved add 1 pint 
sugar, 1 pint cold water and the juice of 5 or 6 lemons. 
Strain when the sugar is dissolved and freeze. 

ORANQE 5HERBET. 

Make the same as lemon sherbet, using oranges in place of 
lemons. Or a sherbet of a lovely color can be made by using 
blood red oranges. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Two medium sized pineapples, IV^ quarts water,! pint sugar. 
After removing outer scales of pineapple, pare until clear fruit 
is reached, then grate to the core. Add to the cold water the 
second paring and the core cut into inch pieces and boil long 
enough to extract the strength. Strain, add sugar and boil 
five minutes longer. When cool add grated fruit and freeze. 

Mrs. Harvlin Paddock. 

"Oh, bother such a cook book! I've been all 
through ittwict,an' it doant give no fancy dishes wot 
kin be made out of bread and water." — Life. 



Cookies and Small Cakes. 



Mrs. abijah Smith. 




*'At Athens the women were permitted to eat 
cakes made of sesame and honey on theNeesteia of the 
third day of the Thesmophoria." — Encyc. Britan. 



% cup sugar. 
Va, cup butter. 

V2 cup molasses. 



NEW YQRK aiNQERBREAD. 

V2 cup sour milk. 
V^ teaspoonful soda. 
V2 teaspoonful ginger. 
1% cups flour. 
Mrs. Gillian Webster Dean. 

BAKER'S aiNQERBREAD. 

1 teaspoonful pulverized alum. 
1 large teaspoonful soda. 
1 large teaspoonful ginger. 



1 cup sugar. 
V2 cup butter. 
1 cup molasses. 
1 cup cold water. 

Cream butter and sugar, and add the molasses. Dissolve 
alum in one-half the cold water, and soda in the other. Make 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 113 



very soft, roll out one-half inch thick, cut in scjuares, crease 
the tops and bake quickly. Plan to just fill the baking pan 
with the squares. Mrs. Henry G. Ely. 

Mrs. E. E. Carr. 

SOFT QINQERBREAD No. 1. 

1 eg^. V2 teaspoon ful ginger. 

V2 cup sugar (scant). 1 teaspoonful soda (scant). 

V4 cup shortening. IV^ cups flour. 

V2 cup molasses. Pinch of salt. 
V^ cup boiling water. 

Bake in two inch tins. Mrs. Lulu Fenno Woolson. 

SOFT QINQERBREAD No. 2. 

2 cups flour. V2 teaspoonful salt. 
V2 teaspoonful ginger. 1 coffee cup molasses. 
Butter size of a walnut. 

Mix salt and ginger in flour. Melt butter and stir into the 
molasses. One teaspoonful soda dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls 
warm water, and stir into the molasses. Then stir the 
molasses into the flour while it is foaming. 

Mrs. E. Bowker. 

SOFT QINQERBREAD No. 3. 

1 cup molasses. V4 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful soda. Butter size of an Eng. walnut. 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

Pour upon this V2 cup boiling water, add 2 cups flour and 
beat thoroughly. Then stir in 1 well beaten egg. Bake in a 
thin sheet. Mrs. A. D. Nelson. 

QINQERBREAD No. 1. 

1 ^gg, 2% cups flour. 

% cup butter, or V2 teaspoonful soda. 

y2 cup sour cream. 1 teaspoonful ginger. 

1 cup molasses. Bit of salt. 

Mrs. W. W. Thayer. 
9 



114 COOKERY CRAFT. 



QINQERBREAD No. 2. 

1 cup molasses (boiled ). 1 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 

1 egg (well beaten). 2 ctSps flour. 

Add egg and butter while warm and beat well. 

Mrs. Henry E. Byron. 

aiNQER SNAP5 No. 1. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup water. 

1 cup butter. Mj teaspoonful ginger. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

Flour to roll out as hard as possible. Roll very thin and 
cut in squares. Mrs. Abijah Smith. 

aiNQER SNAPS No. 2. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful ginger. 

V2 cup butter. V2 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

V2 cup molasses. Flour to roll. 

Mrs. Henry E. Byron. 

aiNQER SNAPS FOR CHILDREN. 

1 cup molasses, boiled and 1 teaspoonful soda. 

cooled. 1 teaspoonful ginger. 

1 egg. A little salt. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Flour to roll without sticking to board. Roll thin. 

Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

QINQER DROP CAKES. 

3 eggs. 1 cup lard. 

1 cup baking molasses. 1 cup brown sugar. 

1 large tablespoonful ginger. 1 tablespoonful baking powder 

5 cups unsifted flour. dissolved in 1 cup boiling 

water. 

Drop tablespoon fuls of this mixture into a slightly greased 

dripping pan, about three inches apart. 

Mrs. F. A. Tifft. 



COOKIBS AND SMALL CAKES. Ih 



COFFEE COOKIES. 

V2 cup sup^ar. V2 cup molasses. 

V2 cup butter. V2 cup strong coflee. 

% teaspoonful ginger. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

Very little salt. Flour to roll out. 

Mks. Hknry B. Byron. 

lemon cookies. 

5 cups flour. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup butter. Vh cup sweet milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 2 teaspoonfuls extract lemon. 

2 eggs. 

Mix thoroughly together the flour, sugar and butter. Add 
the eggs, well beaten, the soda dissolved in the milk, and the 
lemon. Mks. Ckawfokd Rannky. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup butter. 

2 eggs. Vi teaspoonful soda dissolved 
1 teaspoonful lemon. in 1 teaspoonful of milk. 

Mix very hard with flour. Mrs. W. W. S. Brown. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

1 V2 cups sugar. 1 ^f^g, 

1 cup sour cream. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful extract lemon. Flour. 

Mrs. F. F. Ruitkr. 

WALNUT COOKIES. 

1 cup walnut meats, pounded 1 cup sugar. 

fine. 1 egg, well beaten. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. I^our to roll thin. 
1 heaping teaspoonful baking 

powder. S. C. S. 



116 



COOKERY CRAFT. 



1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 



COOKIES. 

1 cup butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

Flour to roll. 

Mrs. W. D. Flint. 
cocoanut cookies. 



1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 

IMs teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 

Enough flour to roll thin. 

METHODIST CRUMPETS. 

1 cup moist brown sugar. 
1 cup chopped raisins. 
V2 teaspoonful soda. 

Spice as for cookies, 
like cookies. 



V2 cup butter. 

V4: cup milk. 

1 cup dessicated cocoanut. 

A little salt. 

Bake quickly. 



N. P. M. 



2 cups sugar. 

3 eggs. 

1 large cup chopped raisins. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Cut and bake as cookies. 



V2 cup butter. 

I tablespoonful sweet milk. 
Flour enough to roll out and bake 

Mrs. J. N. Gale. 

HERHITS. 

1 cup butter. 

All kinds of spice. 

4 tablespoonfuls sour milk. 

Flour enough to roll out. 



Miss Alice Johnson. 

''Their influence, subtle, but still potent from its 
very subtleness, is being felt around us in many a 
puzzle — educational, social, political." — C. Kingsley on 
Hermits. 

MACAROONS. 

1 V4, pounds almonds. 1 pound sugar. 

3 eggs, whites only. Rose water. 

Blanch and pound the almonds, with a little rose water. 
Beat the whites of the eggs stiff", add the sugar gradually then 
the almonds. Drop a teaspoonful at a time on buttered tins. 
Bake slowly a light brown. L. B. Merrill. 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 117 



CUP CAKES. 

1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup sour cream. 3 cups flour (or a trifle more). 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 1 even tea spoonful soda. 

Flavor to taste. 

S. C. 

WAFERS. 

4- eggs . 1 V2 cu ps I )u t ter . 

3 cups sugar. 1 tcaspoonful soda. 

Cream butter and sugar, add the well beaten eggs. Dis- 
solve the soda in a very little water. Stir in all the flour pos- 
sible, then knead in more; try it and see if it is gummy, if so it 
needs more flour. Roll thin, sprinkle with coarse white sugar, 
cut into strips and bake alight brown. If they are put into 
tin pails or boxes they will keep for months. 

Mrs. Hkxrv Fair hanks. 

qraham crackers. 

V2 cup sugar. V2 tcaspoonful soda dissolved in 

Mj cup butter. V2 cup water. 

White of 1 egg. (rraham flour to knead. 

1 tcaspoonful cream tartar. 

Roll thin and cut in strips, prick with a fork and bake in a 
quick oven till crisp. I'sc white flour to roll out. Add more 
sugar if desired. Miss Helen Shaw. 

QRAHAM WAFERS. 

2 cups graham flour. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. V2 tcas[)o()nful ginger. 
V2 tcaspoonful cream tartar. A little salt. 

Work all into the flour, moisten with cold water with V4 
tcaspoonful soda. I. I. 

OATMEAL CRACKERS. 

2 cups oatmeal (fine). V2 cup hot water. 

2 cups white flour. ¥2 tcaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup butter. 1 tcaspoonful salt. 
Vi cup sugar. 



lis 



COOKERY CRAFT. 



Mix well together the oatmeal, flour, sugar and salt. Melt 
the butter and add to it the hot water and soda, and pour 
into the dry mixture as quickly as possible. Roll very thin 
and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Merrill. 



OATHEAL COOKIES. 



2V^ cups oatmeal. 

IfuU cup butter. 

2 eggs. 

1 scant teaspoonful soda. 



2Vi cups flour. 

1 full cup sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

1 large tablespopnful cinnamon. 



Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. J. N. Gale. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

1 pound flour. V2 pound butter. 

% pound sugar. 6 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 
1 wine glass sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks of eggs well 
beaten, then soda dissolved in the milk; lastly, alternate flour 
with cream tartar sifted into it, and the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff, and add vanilla. Drop with a spoon on buttered tins 
and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

1 cup thick sour cream. 1 egg. 

1 cup sugar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. Spice or vanilla. 

Flour to make rather stiff" dough. Handle but small por- 
tion of dough at once and roll about V2 inch thick. Bake in 
hot oven. Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 



COOKIES. 



1 cup l)utter. 

1 even teaspoonful soda. 



1 cup sugar. 
3 tablespoonfuls milk. 
Flour to roll. Roll very thin. 
Mrs. Henry French. 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 119 



WAFERS. 

1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 

Mj cup milk. 3 eggs. 

Spice or flavor as one pleases. 1 teaspoonful soda mixed in G 

cups flour. 
Roll dough thin, then sprinkle with fine sugar and roll very 
thin. Then cut, and with a wide knife lav in tins and bake. 

Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 

VANILLA WAFERS. 

1 cup sugar. % cup melted butter, scant. 

1 Qgg. 4- tablespoonfuls milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Flour to stiffen and roll very thin. Bake in hot oven not 
longer than five minutes. Will make six dozen. 

Miss Fannie Russell. 

COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup butter. 

1 egg. V4r cup milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 4 cups flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten Qgg, then milk, 
then baking powder sifted with the flour. Roll thin and bake 
twenty minutes. Mrs. Loren F. Miner. 

Of small cakes it may be said in general that age 
cannot wither nor custom stale their infinite variety. 



CAKE. 



Mrs. IRVING H. FROST. 




ANQGL CAKE No. 1. 

Whites of llcg^sbeaten toastifFfroth,l^cups sugar and 1 
cup flour sifted four times with 1 small teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and a little salt. Beat eggs and 
sugar, stir thoroughly, add flour a tablespoonful at a time. 
Bake forty minutes. Turn pan upside down to cool. 

Mrs. W. T. Horton. 



ANQEL CAKE No. 2. 

10 eggs, whitesonly. IVicups sifted granulated sugar. 

A pinch of salt added to eggs V2 teaspoonful cream tartar, 
before beating. 1 cup sifted flour. 

After sifting flour four or five times set aside 1 cup; then sift 
and measure sugar, beat whites of eggs about half, then add 
cream tartar and beat until very stiff", stir in sugar, then flour, 
very lightly. Put in pan and in a moderate oven at once. Will 
bake in thirty-five to fifty minutes. Mrs. J. W. Balch. 



CA KE. 121 

ANGEL CAKB No. 3. 

1 tcaspoonful cream tartar. 1 tumblerful (lour. 
Whites of G eggs. 1 tumblerful sugar. 

Sift flour ?iWQ times. Put cream tartar in tumbler, (ill 
tumbler with flour and sift again ; measure sugar and sift ; 
beat whites stiff, add the sugar, and then the flour, beat until 
well mixed, add salt and flavoring. Bakefrom one-half to one 
hour. Turn tin upside down to cool. 

Mrs. a. M. Ritciiik. 

'* While Gilliat ^uzcd, sonielhin^ white passed be- 
fore him, and (|nickly vanished." — Toilers of the Sea. 

ARCHANGEL CAKE. 

8 eggs, whites only. 1 cup butter. 

2 cups sifted flour. 1 cup A sugar. 
1 teaspo(mful baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour and flavoring, add 
lastly the whites beaten to a stifl froth. Bake in layers six to 
ten minutes, and fill with almond paste filling, or bake in a 
Turk's head tin. Bake al)out thirty minutes in a moderately 
quick oven. Miss Lv/z/ak M. Ross. 

MARBLED CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

V2 cup butter. 1 cup sugai . 

V2 cup sweet milk. IV^ cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. Whites of 4 eggs (added last). 

Take 1 cup of this mixture, add to it 5 tablespoonfuls 
grated chocolate wet with milk, and flavor with vanilla. Put 
a layer of white batter in cake pan, drop the chocolate batter 
with a spoon in spots, pour over the remaining white batter 
and bake. Ice with Chocolate Icing No. 1. 

Miss Mar(;aki:t Mkrkill. 

CHOCOLATE OR BLACK CAKE. 

3 eggs beaten separately. 3 cups flour. 

2 cups powdered sugar, or V2 cup milk. 
IVi cups granulated sugar. V2 cup butter. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 2 squares chocolate. 



122 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs thoroughly, 
then add milk, then whites of eggs beaten stiff, add flour and 
stir hard, then stir in the chocolate dissolved in a little hot 
water. Bake in loaf or layers. Miss Eva Burke. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

1 Q^g. 1 cup sugar. 

V2 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

3 cups flour. 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Bake in two layers. Ice with Boiled Chocolate Icing No. 2. 

Mrs. Grace Weijster Locke. 

chocolate layer cake. 

V2 cup milk. 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

W2 cups sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

2 cups flour. 

Ice with Boiled Chocolate Icing No. 1. 

Mrs. Percy Thompson Kennedy. 

CARAMEL CAKE No. 1. « 

^ ^ggs. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1 cup sugar. Mj teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

V^ cup sweet milk. 

Bake in two tins. Put together with Caramel Frosting 
No. 2. Mrs. W. A. Taplin. 

CARAMEL CAKE No. 2. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

Vi cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V2 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups flour (heaping). V2 cup grated chocolate. 

Dissolve the chocolate and stir into the cake. Make two 
layers and bake rather quickly. 

CREAn. 

% cup milk. Butter size of an ^gg. 

2 cups sugar. 



CAKB. 123 

Boil ten minutes, remove from the fire and stir until cool. 
Add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and spread on the cake. 

Mrs. C. C. Montgomery. 

" It is sometimes pleasant enough to consider the 
different notions which different persons have of the 
same thing." — Addison. 

SPONGE CAKE No. 1. 

3 eggs beaten separately. \V2 cups sugar. 

Large V2 cup cold water. 2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

Stir the yolks and sugar together, add part of the water, 
then the beaten whites, and dissolve the soda in the remaining 
water. Mrs. Lulu Fknno Woolson. 

SPONGE cake" No. 2. 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 1 cup 
powdered sugar; % of the sugar beaten with the yolks and the 
remainder with the whites; then beat all together, add 1 cup 
flour, 1 teaspoonful Royal baking powder, a little salt, beat all 
together, then add V2 cup boiling water, beat well and bake in 
a moderate oven. Mrs. Minnik R. Ide. 

SPONGE CAKE No. 3. 

'^ ^ggs. % cup sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls water. 1 cup flour. 

Two teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted with flour. Flavor. 

Mrs. Bessie Thompson Tucker. 

SPONGE CAKE No. 4. 

^ eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

4- tablespoonfuls boiling water. 1V4 cups flour. 
1 teaspoonful baking powder. Flavor to taste. 

Beat well and add the water the last thing. Sprinkle 
sugar on top before baking. Mrs. C. H. Stevens, 



124- COOKERY CRAFT, 



SPONQB CAKE No. 5. 

Three effi^s, beaten two minutes, add IY2 eups sugar, beat 
five minutes, 1 eup flour, beat one minute, V^ eup sweet milk 
and V2 teaspoonful soda, beat one minute, now add 1 cup flour 
and 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, beat all five minutes. Flavor 
to taste. M. E. S. 

CREAn SPONGE CAKE. 

^ ^*R^^- ^^-^ cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup sweet cream. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 
Flavor with lemon. S. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

^ ^^S^- ^ teaspoonful cloves. 

2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 cup cold coflee. 1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

3 cups flour. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

Mrs. G.C. Burnham. 

DATE CAKE No. 1. 

One cup sugar creamed with V2 cup butter, 2 well beaten 
eggs, V2 cup sweet milk, in which dissolve V2 teaspoonful soda, 

2 even cups sifted flour, with 1 teaspoonful cream tartar well 
mixed in, a pinch of salt. Have ready 1 cup of nice fresh dates, 
stoned and chopped to about the size of raisins, roll these in a 
very little flour and stir well through the cake. Bake in a 
shallow pan for a full half hour. You can add a pinch of all 
kinds of spice. Mrs. Nettie Magoon. 

DATE CAKE No. 2. 

2 cups sugar. 3 eggs. 

% cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

1 cup sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

3 cups flour. 1 cup dates rolled in flour. 

F. M. Simpson. 



CAKB. 



121 



L) 



V2 cup butter. 

V2 cup sour cream. 

iy2 cups brown sugar. 

2V^ cups flour. 

1 cup raisins. 



PLAIN DARK CAKE. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 teaspoonful each of cloves, 
cinnamon, allspice and nut- 
meg. 
Mrs. LrcY Hoyey Spooxer. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

2 cups sugar. 
2 V^ cups flour. 

1 V2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



1 cup butter. 

% cup sweet milk. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

1 pound blanched almonds. 

1 pound citron. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add milk, then stir 
in flour with the baking powder well mixed ; next add the eggs 
beaten to a stifl* froth and when well mixed stir in the citron 
sliced and dusted lightly with flour, and lastly the almonds 
chopped fine. Line two medium sized cake tins with buttered 
paper. Pour in the batter, smoothing over the top, and bake 



slowly till done. 



V2 pound sugar. 
V2 pound flour. 
V2 pound currants. 
1 teaspoonful each all kinds 
spices. 



Mrs. CivARa Wheeler Peterson, 

FRUIT CAKE No. 1. 

V2 pound butter. 
V2 pound raisins. 
5 eggs. 
1 lemon chopped. 



Mrs. G. H. Taplln. 

FRUIT CAKE No. 2. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 1 cup sugar. 



V2 cup butter. 

% cup molasses. 

V^ teaspoonful soda dissolved 

in milk. 
Spice to taste. 



V2 cup sour milk. 
2 V2 cups flour. 

V2 cup each of raisins, currants 
and citron. 

Mrs. Wm. Green. 



126 



COOKERY CRAFT. 



FRUIT CAKE No. 3. 



o eggs. 

2 cups butter. 

2 cups molasses. 

6 cups flour. 

All kinds of spices. 



2 cups sugar. 
1 cup sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 large coffee cupful each of rai- 
sins, currants and citron. 
Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 



CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 



5 eggs. 

1 pound raisins. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 teaspoonful each all kinds 



3 cups sugar. 
1 cup melted butter. 
1 cup sour milk. 
5 cups flour. 



of spices. 

This will make two good sized loaves. 

Mrs. F. G. Moore. 

" When we have succeeded then shall be our time 
to rejoice and Ireely laugh." — Buckley's Sophocles. 

ANTI FOREIGN FRUIT CAKE. 

One pint of dried apple soaked in cold water one hour, then 
chop as fine as raisins; put it into 1^ cups of molasses and let 
it stand in a warm place until the molasses is nearly absorbed, 
then add spices as for fruit cake and 
1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

I cup butter. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup sour milk. 4 cups flour. 

Mrs. J. M. Alvord. 

APPLE CAKE. 

Two cups dried apple soaked over night in cold water. 
Chop fine and cook slowly one hour in 2 cups molasses and V^ 
cup sugar. When cool add 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour 
milk, 4^ cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in the 
milk, and spices of all kinds. Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 



CAKE. 127 

EASY CAKE. 

IV^ cups flour. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1 cup sugar. 

Mix well together, then break 1 egg into a teacup and 
beat; add 3 tablespoonfuls butter melted. Fill up cup with 
new milk and V2 teaspoonful soda. Add prepared flour. 
Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. Ellen Ely Kyburo. 

snow cake. 

V2 cup butter. 4 eggs, whites only. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

iy2 cups flour. V2 cup sweet milk. 

Flavor with lemon. 

M. G. vS. 

GOLD CAKE. 

V2 cup butter. 1 egg. 

1 cup sugar. Yolks of 4 eggs. 

V2 cup sweet milk. 1 teasponful l)aking powder. 

IV^ cups flour. 

Flavor with lemon and spice to taste. M. G. W. 

GOLD LOAF. 

Yolks of 8 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

V2 cup butter, scant. V2 cup sweet milk. 

IV^ cups flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Beat yolks to a stiff* 
froth and stir evenly through. Put in milk, then flour and stir 
hard. Bake in tube pan in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. a. W. SimPvSon. 

charhinq cake. 

3 ^R^s. 2V^ cups sugar. 

1 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

3^ cups flour. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V2 teaspoonful soda. Flavor with vanilla. 

This makes two loaves. Mrs. C. H. Stkvkns. 



71^.S 



COOKERV CRAFT. 



ONE EOO CAKB. 



1 cup sii^ar. 
Vi cup butter. 

1 cuj) sweet milk. 

2 cups flour. 



1 <^^^K- 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V'2 teaspoonful soda. 

M. Bloisk Stevens. 



DELICATE CAKE. 

Whites of 2 eg^s ])eaten to a V2 teaspoonful soda. 

stiff froth. V2 cup butter. 

\V2 cuj)s*sugar. '^ cups flour. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoonful essence of lemon. 

1 te«'is])oonfuI cream tartar. 

Mrs. Carrie Tapun Hinman. 

variety cake. 

2 cups sugar. \\ <-*ggs- 

% cuj) ])utter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Vis cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda, or 

ti cups flour. i\ teasj)oonfuls baking powder. 

Take half this mixture for whitecake, to the remainder add 
1 tablespoonful molasses, 1 tablespoonfid cinnamon. 

Mrs. Orris Paddock Hastings. 

NANCY HANK5 CAKE.— First Part. 

8 tablespoon fuls grated choco- 5 tables])oonfuls sugar, 
late. V2 cup milk. 

Cook together till thick, flavor and cool. 

Second Part. 

\V2 cu])s sugar. .'i eggs. 

V2 cup butter. 14 cup sweet milk. 

V2 CUJ) flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Put the first ])art into the second part, bake in layers, put 
together with Hoiled Icing No. 2. 

Mrs. Alice Smith Johnson. 



CAKE. 129 

. CORNSTARCH CAKE. 

Whites of 3 eggs. V2 cup cornstarch. 

V^ cup butter. V2 cup sweet milk. 

V^ teaspoonful cream tartar. 1 cup sugar. 
Vi teaspoonful soda. 1 cup flour. 

Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

1 cup butter. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup sweet milk. 2 cups sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 3 cups flour. 

Take a little of the batter and add spices and molasses to 
darken it. Mrs. Abbie M. McNeil. 

CAKE WITHOUT EQQS. 

1 V^ cups sugar. ^ cup butter. 

1 cup sour milk. 3 cups flour. 

1 V2 cups raisins. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 teaspoonful cinnamon. V2 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

D. L. W. 

CREAn CAKE. 

1 cup cream. 1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 scant cups flour. A little salt. Q. Q. 

RAILROAD CAKE. 

Break an egg into a cup and fill it with sour cream. Add 

1 cup sugar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups flour. Salt and flavor to taste. 

Mrs. Abijah Smith. 

QERHAN CAKE. 

1 ^ cups butter. 5 eggs. 

2 V^ cups sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

3 V4 cups flour. V2 teaspoonful each of cloves, 
V^ cup sweet milk. cinnamon, allspice and a bit 

of nutmeg. 
Bake in sheets and frost with lemon frosting. 

German Lady. 
10 



130 COOKHRY CRAFT. 



BANANA CAKE. 

1 cup sugar (powdered is best). V^ cup butter. 
1 cup sweet milk. IVz teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1% cups flour sifted with the der. 
baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar together. When these ingredi- 
ents are well mixed add the whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff. 
Flavor with almond. Bake in layers. Put together with the 
following Banana Filling. 

BANANA FILLING. 

Slice up some bananas and stir them through 1 cup of 
rich cream which has been whipped to a stiff froth. 

Mrs. N. W. M. 

FIQ CAKE. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

V4 cup butter. IV^ cups flour. 

V2 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Mix to a cream the sugar and butter, add the eggs, well 
beaten, the soda dissolved in the milk, and the cream tartar 
sifted with the flour. Bake in three layers and fill with Fig 
Filling. 

FIQ FILLING. 

^ pound figs. V4, cup water. 

1 ^gg. V2 cup sugar. 

Chop the figs fine and steam with the water for ten min- 
utes. When cool add the egg and sugar. Use white frosting 

for the top. 

Mrs. Crawford Ranney. 

FIG ECDAIRE. 

Bake white cake in thin sheets. Put between the layers a 
filling made as follows : Chop fine V2 pound figs, add H cbp 
sugar, Mj cup water and the juice of 1 lemon. Cook in double 
boileruntil thick enough to spread. Miss Lizzie M. Ross. 



CAKB. 



131 



"Sufficient to have stood though free to fall." 

— Milton. 
NUT CAKE NO. 1. 



1 cup sugar. 
V2 cup butter. 
y2 cup sweet milk. 

2 cups flour. 

V2 cup stoned and chopped rai- 
sins. 



1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. 



2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
V2 teaspoonful soda. 
1 large cup hickory or butter- 
nut meats. 
Mrs. J. Hammond Hastings. 

NUT CAKE No. 2. 

5 ^ggs, whites only. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
V2 teaspoonful soda. 
Bake in layers. 

PILLING. 

1 cup sour or sweet cream. 



1 cup nuts chopped fine. 
1 cup sugar. 

Mix and boil till right thickness to spread between the 
layers. Ice the top with white frosting and save a few whole 
nuts for the top. Mrs. Alice Smith Johnson. 

NUT CAKE NO. 3. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

V2 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1 ¥2 cups flour. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V^ cup raisins chopped. V^ cup walnut meats chopped. 

V2 cup cold water. 

Reserve some of the whole meats to lay on the icing while 
soft. Mrs. F. W. Taylor. 

NUT CAKE No. 4. 



1 cup sugar. 
V2 cup butter. 

% cup sweet milk. 

2 cups flour. 



4 eggs, whites. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

% pound nuts chopped fine. 

Mrs. Etta Graham Stanhope. 



132 COOKERY CRAFT. 



NUT CAKE No. 5. 

1 V2 cups su^ar. 3 I'^gs. 

% cup ])uttcr. 1 cup ments of any kind of nuts 

V4 cu[) sweet milk. preferred. 

Flavor with vanilla. 2^^ cuj)s flour. 

Mks. Ooouall. 

PREMlUn WALNUT CXKE. 

1 cup sugar. 8 eggs, yolks. 
V2 cup butter. White of 1 c^)2^. 

2 cups flour. 1 tcaspoonful soda dissolved in 
2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. V2 cup sweet milk. 

Bake in layers. Beat the whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar and 

1 cup chopped walnuts together and place between the cakes. 
Frost and place walnuts on the frosting if liked. 

Mrs. C. C. Frost. 

LEMON CAKE. 

4 tumblers flour. 8 eggs. 

2 V2 tumblers powdered sugar. 2 large lemons. 

% tumbler butter. 1 heaping teaspoonful soda. 

1 tumbler sweet milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, then 

the milk with the soda, and then the beaten whites and the 

flour. When this is well mixed grate in the peel of 1 lemon 

and add the juice of 2. Bake immediately. 

Miss Ellkn C. Putnkv. 

'* If it were done when 'tis done, then 't were well 
it were done quickly." — Macbeth. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

1 V2 cups sugar. 3 eggs. 

V2 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

2 V2 cups flour. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

JELLY FOR CAKE. 

1 grated lemon, juice and rind. 1 cup sugar. 
Butter the size of an ii^j^y^,. 2 eggs. 

Mrs. C. F. Eastman. 



CAKE. 133 

WHITE CAKE. 

1 cup pulverized sugar. 8 eggs, whites only. 

V4 cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

V2 cup sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful extract lemon. 

IVicups flour. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add gradually the milk and 
the flour, into which the baking powder has been sifted ; add 
the lemon extract and beat well for several minutes. Beat the 
whites of the eggs very stiff and add to the cake, stirring care- 
fully. Frost with Golden Lemon Frosting. 

MivSs Caroline D. Ely. 

BOSTON CAKE. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
V2 cup sweet milk. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 tablcspoonful butter. 

Frost with Maple Sugar Frosting No. 2. 

Mrs. Gillian Webster Dean. 

leap year cake. 

1 cup sugar. "¥2 cup ])utter. 

V2 cup milk. 1% cups flour. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 1 heaping teaspoonful baking 

1 teaspoonful extract lemon. powder. 
Frost with Chocolate Frosting No. 6. 

Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 

HARLEQUIN CAKE. 

1 V2 cups sugar. V2 cup butter. 

3 ^K^^- ^ ^"P sweet milk. 
V2 teaspoonful soda. 3 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Divide in four parts ; bake two ])arts as it is, add 1 tea- 
spoonful liquid coloring to third, and 1 square chocolate to 
fourth. Put in alternate layers with jelly between and frost- 
ing on top. MivSs Flora M. Simpson. 



134 COOKERY CRAFT. 



GRANDMA'S TEA CAKE. 

1 cup su)2;ar. 1 egg. 

2 cups flour. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
1 cup sour cream. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup chopped raisins or cur- 
rants. Grandma. 

Grandmother's motto : " Do it and it will be done." 
ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

2 eggs. ^ cup sugar. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. Vi cup flour. 

V2 teaspoonful soda. Mrs. I. H. Frost. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

3 ^ggs. 1 ^ cups sugar. 
V2 cup milk. V2 cup butter. 

1 heaping teaspoonful bak- 2 cups flour. 

ing powder. 

Divide into three partes. Bake two parts plain ; to the 

other part add 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 1 teaspoonful cloves. 

A little nutmeg. 2 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

1 cup fruit. 

Put jelly between the layers and frost on top. 

Mrs. Mabel Brackett Welch. 

french loaf. 

3 cups light sponge. 3 eggs. 

2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 cup butter. Fruit and spices, 

3 ci^ps flour. Mrs. G. H. T. 

RAISED CAKE. 

1 cup bread dough. 1 egg. 

1 cup brown sugar. 1 level teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup flour. Raisins and spice to taste. 

V2 cup butter. 

Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 



CAKE. 



135 



MAPLE SUGAR FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, add V2 enp of 
maple sugar and V2 cup of chopped nuts and spread between 
the layers. Mrs. Ahijaii Smith. 

CREAM CAKES. 



V2 teaspoonful salt. 
\y2 cups pastr}' flour. 



1 cup hot water. 
V^ cup butter. 
4 eggs. 

Put on the water, salt and butter to boil, the instant it 
boils all over add the flour all at once, stir well until it cleaves 
from the pan ; it will take about Ave minutes. Let the mixture 
cool, then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat each Qg^ in 
thoroughly before adding another. When well mixed, drop in 
small tablespoonfuls on a buttered baking pan, some distance 
apart to allow for spreading. Bake about thirty minutes in a 
hot ijven until well risen, then decrease the heat and be careful 
to bake them until done. Split when cool and fill with the fol- 
lowing cream : 

CREAM FOR CREAM CAKES. 



2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 
% cup sugar. 



1 pint milk, boiled. 
3 eggs, well beaten. 
V2 teaspoonful salt. 

Wet the cornstarch in cold milk and cook in the boiling 
milk ten minutes, stirring thoroughly. Beat the eggs, add 
sugar and salt, stir this into the thickened milk and cook a few 
minutes longer. When cool, flavor with a few drops of almond 
and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Mrs. Elva Soule Wkhstkr. 

CREAH CAKE No. 1. 



1 ^^'g- 

Butter size of a butternut. 
1 cup flour. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Bake in two tins. 



V'2 cup sugar. 

V2 cup sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 



136 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CREAM. 

1 egg. 1 cup milk. 

1 tablcspooniul flour. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Mrs. Z. a. Richardson. 

CREAM CAKE No. 2. 

1 cup sugar. Butter size of a walnut. 

1 egg. 1% cups flour. 

% cup sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V2 teaspoonful soda. Flavor to taste. 

Beat well and bake in three round cakes. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

To 1 cup sweetcreara, beaten stiff", add V2 cup sugar, flavor 
and spread between layers. Mrs. Wm. Johnson. 

"With weights and measures just and true, 

Oven of even heat. 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves, 

Success will be complete." 



Icings and Confectionery. 

MRS. CLARENCE BERRY— Ml^S EVA BURKE. 




ICING. 

Stir into 2 tablespoonfuls of hot milk powdered sugar 
enough to make an icing that will spread nicely on cake. 

Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

plain frosting. 

1 egg ( white ). 1 cup powdered sugar. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar gradually, then 
cornstarch. Flavor to taste. Spread on cake and smooth 
with a knife wet in cold water. Mrs. J. W. Balch. 

"A result of molecular changes and differentiation 
— once nothing but cosmic vapor." 

BOILED ICING No. 1. 

IVi cups of sugar. 1 egg ( white ). 

5 tablespoonfuls of water. 



138 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Add water to sii^ar and boil over a hot fire until it 
threads from the spoon, stirring;!; frecjuently at first. Beat 
white of Qgy^ fairly stiff. Pour the boiling sugar into it; add 
\i teaspoonfid cream tartar. Stir rapidly for about thirty 
seconds, then put in beater and beat until light and creamy. 
Flavor to taste. When cooled to proper consistency spread on 
cake. Mrs. C. E. Peck. 

BOILED PROSTINQ No. 2. 

2 cups granulated sugar. V2 cuj) water. 

Boil till thick. Then turn it upon the well beaten whites 

of 2 eggs; add a pinch of cream tartar to make frosting soft. 

Add V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. Alice Smith Johnson. 

GELATINE FROSTING. 

To 2V^ tablespoonfuls of hot water add V2 level teaspoon- 
ful of granulated gelatine, or 1 tablespoonful of ordinary gela- 
tine. When dissolved add % cup of confectioner's sugar ; 
add V4, teaspoonful vanilla and beat until the right consistency 
to spread. Miss Mabel Fairbanks. 

CHOCOLATE ICING No. 1. 

1 cup powdered sugar. Vi cake Baker's chocolate 

2 tablespoonfuls boiling water. ( shaved ) . 
White of 1 Qgg. 

Cook V^ of the sugar, all the chocolate and water together 
until smooth. Have the egg and remainder of the sugar 
beaten together and pour into them the hot chocolate. Beat 
well and spread on cake at once. 

Miss Margaret Merrill. 

CHOCOLATE ICING No. 2. 

Butter V2 size of an egg. 2 cups sugar. 

V^ cup milk. 1 square chocolate. 

Boil fifteen minutes; beat till cool, then add melted choco- 
late and viinilki. Spread between layers and over the top. 

Mrs. Grace Webster Locke. 



ICINGS AND CONFECTIONERY, 139 

"Thou art all ice; thy kindness freezes." 

--Richard III. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 3. 

1 cup grated chocolate. Ms cup sweet milk. 

1 cup sugar. 

Boil in a double boiler twenty minutes, or until it thickens. 

Mrs. B. 

CHOCOLATE J'ROSTING No. 4. 

Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of cream with powdered sugar 
enough to spread nicely, then melt a small piece of chocolate 
and pour into the cream and sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mlss Eliz.v Blodoktt. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 5. 

V2 cake of chocolate. 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 

% cup of sugar. 1 Q^y^. 

Cook in a double boiler until soft. Add the Q*f:^[f well 
beaten; stir until smooth; add flavoring. When cooled to 
proper consistency spread on cake. 

Mrs. Hknrv Frknch. 

chocolate frosting no. 6. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 8 tablespoonfuls of powdered 

1 cake of melted chocolate. sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Mrs. (i. C. Hurnham. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 7. 

One cup of sugar moistened with a little milk. Boil about 
five minutes after it begins to foam, then put on a plate and 
beat until quite thick. To this add not (piite a square of 
grated chocolate and beat again about five minutes. 

Miss Isauhl Pkndriuge. 

golden frosting. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

Beat fifteen minutes, or until stiff enough to spread. 
Flavor with vanilla. Miss Latra I^rknch. 



140 COOKERY CRAFT. 



ORANGE FROSTINO. 

Into the yolks of 2 eggs stir powdered sugar enough to 
thicken. Add the grated rind and juice of 1 orange. 

Mrs. Irving Frost. 

PINK FROSTING. 

To a boiled icing add liquid cochineal enough to color. 

W. 

'* This curious morsel of antiquity, Thucydides hath 
preserved for us." — Survey of Pelop. War, 

LEMON FROSTING. 

White of 1 Qgg. I cup of sugar. 

Juice of V^ lemon. 

Pour the white of the egg into a bowl, and add the sugar 
by degrees, taking care not to beat until the sugar is added. 
When all the sugar has been used beat in the lemon juice. 

If the white of the egg is large it will require a full cup of 
sugar; if small, a scant cup. The lemon juice may be omitted 
and any other flavoring used. 

APPLE FROSTING. 

Grate 1 good-sized tart apple and beat into it the white 
of 1 egg until stiff. Add 1 cup of sugar and flavor to taste. 
This also makes a nice filling for layer cake. 

Miss Isabel Pendridge. 

GOLDEN LEMON FROSTING. 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of 3 eggs ; add V2 teaspoonful 
of lemon extract and pulverized sugar until the frosting is stiff 
enough to spread. Miss Caroline D. Ely. 

nAPLE SUGAR FROSTING No. 1. 

2 cups maple sugar. % cup water. 

1 egg ( white). 

Boil sugar and water until it threads from a spoon. Re- 
move from fire and add the well beaten white of the egg. Stir 
rapidly until thick enough to spread. 

Mrs. L. W. Rowell. 



ICINGS AND CONFECTIONERY. 141 

MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING No. 2. 

One cup maple sugar moistened with a little cold water. 
Boil till it hairs, then heat into the beaten white of 1 egg. 

Mrs. Gillian Wkhstkk Dean. 
caramel frosting no. 1. 

1 cup sugar. Vq cup milk. 
Piece of butter the size of a walnut. 

Boil until it waxes; do not stir, and spread while warm. 

Mrs. Harry May. 

CARAMEL FROSTING No. 2. 

IV^ cups sugar. Small piece of butter. 

% cup milk. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

A small piece of sweet chocolate, grated. Boil four 
minutes. Mrs. W. A. Taplin. 

"Sweetmeats, niesst'n^ers of stronjif prevailment 
in unharden'd youth." — Midsummer Night's Dream. 

FONDANT FOR CANDIES. 

Put a pint of confectioner's sugar and a ])int of cold water 
into a porcelain lined kettle on the back of the stove. When 
the sugar is dissolved add a small saltspoonful ofcream tartar. 
Do not stir but place where it will boil slowly for fifteen min- 
utes; when done it will form a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water, which may be easily worked between the fingers. Place 
in a dish of cold water, flavor and beat with a wooden paddle 
until it is cool enough to touch, when it should be worked 
with the hands until it is quite pliable and yet creamy. From 
this, walnut, date and almond creams and many other candies 
may be made. Miss Blla D. Ross. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

2 cups fine granulated sugar. V2 cuj) boiling water. 
% teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put sugar in a granite saucepan, add the water and stir 
until sugar is dissolved. Boil without stirring until the syru]) 
dropped from the spoon leaves a fine hair. Pour carefully into 



142 COOKERY CRAFT. 



another pan and place in cold water. When the syrup is cold 
enough to bear your finger in it stir rapidly and constantly 
until it creams. Work in the vanilla and form into balls, 
which should be placed on waxed paper, and after three orfour 
hours they will be ready to cover. 

COVERING FOR CREAMS. 

% pound unsweetened choco- 2 tablespoonfuls powdered su- 

late. gar. 

V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Melt the chocolate by putting it in a small saucepan or 
bowl and standing it in a dish of boiling water. Then stir in 
the sugar and add vanilla drop by drop. Drop in the cream 
balls one by one; take them out with a fork and place on 
waxed paper. Maple creams may be made by boiling maple 
syrup in the same way. Miss Persis D. Hewitt. 

CREAMED WALNUTS. 

1 cup white sugar (scant). Vs cup water. 

V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 1 cup unbroken half walnut 

meats. 
Let the sugar and water boil until, when dropped in cold 
water, it will form a soft ball, not brittle. Take from the tire 
and add vanilla. Stir until it begins to look milky, then pour 
in cup of nut meats. Stir until they are all covered and then take 
out on plates. The meats will not stick together ; if they do 
they can be pulled apart. Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 

*' A tender nest ot soft young hearts, each to be 
separately studied." 

WALNUT CREAMS. 

Take the white of 1 egg and stir into it enough powdered 
sugar to roll into balls. Flavor as you please, and set in a 
cool place fifteen minutes, then roll into balls and place half an 
English walnut on either side of each ball and press together. 

Mrs. Carrie Frost Eastman. 



ICINGS AND CONFECTIONERY. 143 



WALNUT CANDY. 

1 cup walnuts ch()])pec1 line. 2 cu|)s white sugar. 
1 cup milk. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

I^t the milk and sugar boil until a little of it dropped in 
water will make a soft hall and not melt. Take from the fire 
and add the vanilla, then stir until it looks creamy, add the 
finely chopped nuts and pour into a flat tin. Mark in scjuares 
hke caramels. Mrs. L. H. Mkrrill. 

*• A wilderness of sweets." — Paradise Lost. 
CHOCOLATB CREAHS. 

1 pound powdered sugar. 1 teas|)()onful vanilla. 

White of 1 egg. 

Heat the white to astitffroth and add sugar, mold into 
balls and roll in sugar. 

Chocolate— One-half cake Baker's chocolate and V2 tea- 
s])oonful of lard. Melt chocolate and lard until soft, then dip 
creams into this. Drain on waxed |)a|)er. 

Miss Lkna Rowkll. 

peppermint cream5. 

Boil together without stirring 2 cups of sugar find hftlf a 
cup of water. When thick enough to s[)in a thread, remove 
from stove to a basin of cold water and stir the mixtttrc rap- 
idly until it becomes of a white creamy consistency. TMavor 
with ])eppermint and drop on waxed |)aper. 

CHOCOLATE PEPPERMINTS. 

Make like the above and when the dro])s are almost cooled 
dip into «'i pan of melted and sweetened chocolate. 

Mrs. C. M. Berry. 

COCOANUT BALL5. 

1 pound sugar. 1 i:\:f^ (white). 

V2 package cocoanut. 1 tcas})()onful vanilla. 

Beat the a^^ to a stitf froth, add cocoanut and sugar. 
Mold into balls and drain on waxed j)aper. 

Miss Iwa Bi'rke. 



144 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CARAMEL CANDY. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup molasses. 

IvCt them come to a boiling point, then add 1 cup new 
milk, boil until it will rope, probablj' twenty-five minutes, then 
take from the fire and add butter the size of half a hen*s egg] 
flavor with vanilla. Pour into a buttered pan and let cool. 
Cut in squares and let harden. Miss Jennie Gale. 

TURKISH CARAHELS. 

2 cups sugar. V2 cup grated chocolate. 
^ cup milk. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful flour. Butter size of walnut. 
Pinch of salt. Vanilla. 

Boil until it will make a soft ball when dropped in water. 
Flavor with the vanilla as you take from the stove; stir until 
creamy. Pour into a flat tin and cut in squares. 

Miss Ella D. Ross. 

" Who knows to what unnamable subtleties of 
law all these . . . owe their shape?" — The Hero 
as Divinity. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

V2 cup sugar. 14 cake of chocolate. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Boil until it hardens. Remove from the fire, add vanilla 
and stir until cold. Pour into buttered tins. When nearly 
cold stripe off into squares, then when hard, cut and roll in 
wax paper. Miss Lena Rowell. 

CREAM CANDY. 

1 coft'eecup white sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls water. 

Dissolve and boil without stirring, until brittle, in water. 
Just before it is done add ^ teaspoonful cream tartar. Flavor 
to taste. When done pour into buttered pans, and when cool 
enough to handle stretch until perfectly white. Cut in any 
shape preferred. Miss Fannie Russell. 



ICINGS AND CONFHCriONERY lir. 



PLOWED FIELD. 

1 cup milk. 2 cups sugar. 

Put on stove until they boil, then add 1 square ( or half 
cake) of Baker's chocolate, })ut in without breaking or grat- 
ing. Stir all the time, and cook until it will sugar when 
poured out into a tin. This generally takes over twenty 
minutes. Just before taking off stir in butter the size of an 
egg. When cool, plow in sfjuares with a knife. 

Miss Ciiarlottk Fairbanks. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

2 cups molasses. 1 cup sugar. 

1 quart peanuts. 1 teaspoonful soda. 
Butter size of walnut. 

Boil until brittle in water. Stir in soda, break peanuts 
into mixture and pour into buttered tins. Cut in s(juares. 

Miss Laura French. 

"Its nutritive properties are so widely diffused that 
we doubt if it can be fed to lattenin^jj stock with ad- 
vantage." — Am. Farm Book. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

2 quarts peanuts. 2 cups granulated sugar. 

Shell the nuts, rub off the brown peel and chop fine. Put 
the sugar into a hot, dry vskillet and stir continually with an 
iron spoon. This will soon lump and look })rown Imt con- 
tinue stirring and suddenly it will become liquid. Pour in the 
nuts immediately, then pour out on buttered tins; mark in 
squares when cool. W. 11. M. 

5ALTED PEANUTS. 

Remove the shells and pour boiling water over the nuts 
until the red covering leaves them. Spread on fiat tin; pour 
some salad oil over them and ])lace in a slow oven for one-half 
hour; then sprinkle with very fine salt; shake and set away 
to cool. Mrs. S. W. Hall. 

11 



140 COOKHRV CRAFT, 



SALTED ALnONDS. 

To every cupful of blanched almonds add 1 even tal)le- 
spoonful of melted butter or olive oil and let stand a while. 
Sprinkle with a level teaspoonful of salt for each cupful. Place 
in a moderately hot oven and bake until brown, stirring occa- 
sionally. Peanuts may be substituted for alm(mds and will 
be found palatable. J. L. M. 

CARAneL ALM0ND5. 

Blanch 1 |)ound almonds and drain well. Mix 1 tablc- 
spocmful melted butter with the nuts and spread them in two 
tins. Place in a moderately hot oven and roast for twenty 
minutes, stirring often. They should be of a delicate brown 
color. Put half a cup of sugar into a frying pan and stir over 
the fire until the sugar melts and begins to smoke. Instantly 
put in the browned nuts and stir rapidly until the}' are all 
coated with sugar. When cold break them apart. 

Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 
crystallized pop corn. 

Put in an iron kettle 1 tablespoonful ot butter, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of water and 1 cup f)f white sugar. Boil until ready 
to candy then throw in 3 quarts of com nicely popped. Stir 
briskly until the candy is evenly distributed over the corn. 
Set the kettle from the fire and stir until it has cooled a little 
and each grain will be separate and crystallized with sugar. 

Miss Jknnik: Galk. 

"There's a divinity that shnpes our ends 
Kou)<h " —Hamlet. 



Drinks, Hot and Cold. 



MRS. EMMA ALBCe. 




TEA. 

The Japanese and Russians do not boil tea, but pour boil- 
ing water upon it. There is very little color to tea made in 
this way, and to most Americans it seems to have but little 
flavor. Long boiling of tea destroys the fragrant flavor and 
gives it a bitter taste. It is best to use a teapot of earthen 
ware or granite instead of tin, as it is said that the tannin in 
the tea will aft'ect the metal and produce a poisonous compound. 
Scald the teapot that it may be hot, put into it 1 teaspoonful 
of tea for each cup to be made, pour on (juickly boiling water 
and let it boil one minute, then after adding more boiling water, 
set it where it will keep hot, butnot boil, for five minutes before 
serving. Increase the proportion of tea if a larger (|uantity is 
to be made. Mrs. Rkbecca Fairbanks. 



J4S COOKERY CRAFT. 



"A solvent is that which dissolves something. 
Wjirm tea is a solvent of snpnr. * * Solvent signi- 
fies able to pay all debts." — Webster's Spelling Book. 

ICED TEA. 

Make tea by receipt already given. Straitiinto an earthen 
pitcher and when cool set in an ice chest until wanted for use. 
To serve, put 2 lumps of sugar with cracked ice and a slice of 
lemon into a glass and fill with cold tea. 

Mrs. Rehecca Fairbanks. 

COFFEE FOR FIVE. 

V2 pint brown coffee. V2 a beaten e^g. 

1 quart boiling water. 1 pinch salt. 

Mix well together the white of the egg well beaten, with 
the coffee in a little cold water, then pour in the boiling water. 
Stir it in a coffee boiler from the sides as it boils up. Let it 
boil ten minutes. Pour in a little cold water to settle it and 
set it where it will keep warm and not boil. Add the salt and 
serve with hot, but not boiled milk. 

"James Farr of * The Rainbow' by Inner Temple 
, Gate, hath beeiie prosecuted by the Inquest of Saint- 
Dunstans-in-the-West, for making and selling a sort of 
Liquor called Koffee; whereby in making of the same 
he annoyeth neighbors by the evill smelle thereof — it 
being a nusance and prejudice to all the naborhood." 

— Records of St. Sepulchres\ London^ 1657. 

CHOCOLATE. 

2 squares chocolate. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 1 pint boiling milk. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Stir until smooth the sugar, chocolate and cold water; 
then add the boiling water. Let it boil five minutes, then add 
the boiling milk and serve immediately. Mrs. S. French. 

CURRANT SHRUB. 

Mash currants, sufficient to give a quart of juice, first 
through a coarse sieve or fruit squeezer and then through a 



DRIXKS, HOT AM) COLD J40 



bag, and to this add 1 (juart water and sugar to taste. Strain 
after the sugar is dissolved and serve with eraeked ice. 

Mrs. Ricijhcca I'aikhanks. 

RA5PBi:RRY SHRUB No. 1. 

1 (juart Ixrrries. 1 pint vinegar. 

1 V2 cjuarts sugar. 

Ix't the berries and vinegar stand over niglit, then press 
and strain; add the sugar, boil fifteen minutes; skim while 
boiling until elear. Mrs. (). E. (joodall. 

** HuL J (]<) Icel thirsty; I think a )^la8S of srub 
would do mv throat ^ood ; it is dreadful dry. Mr. 
Peckham, wouhlyou l)c scj polite as to pass me a ylass 
of srub." — \Irs. Sjjrf)wlc in litsic Vciiiwr. 

RASPBERRY 5HRUB No. 2. 

1 pint vinegar. 4 pints ras|)berries. 

1 pint currant juice. 

IvCt it stand over night. Strain, then add an ecjual (juan- 
tity of sugar and boil ten minutes, skimming until clear. 

Mrs. M. Paddock. 

RASPBHRRY 5HRUB No. 3. 

4 (juarts berries. 1 ounce of tartaric acid, 

.'i pounds sugar. 

Press the juice from the berries, add the sugar, and boil 
twentv minutes. Dissolve the acid in a little of the iuice. 
When cool mix all together, let stand over night, then strain 
and bottle. Mrs. V. Hlodoktt. 

LBMONADE- No. 1. 

tUemons. (> tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 (juart water. 

R(^ll the lemons, ]>ress out the juice (jn the sugar, then add 
ice. A little pineapple and orange juices add very much to the 
flavor. Mrs. Emma Aiamih. 



150 COOKERY CRAFT. 



LEMONADE No. 2. 

To make lemonade by a new method is to pour water that 
has reached the boiling point over the lemons and sugar, then 
put on ice to cool. To make 1 quart use juice of 3 lemons, 
Vh pound powdered sugar and 1 scant quart of water. 

Mrs. S. W. Hall. 

LEMONADE No. 3. 

A delicious lemonade is made by beating 1 ^^g^ separately, 
stir the beaten yolk into the lemonade. Beat the white to a 
stiff froth, add a little sugar and pour on the lemonade. One 
(igg to about a quart. Mrs. G. Richardson. 

STRAWBERRY LEMONADE. 

1 quart strawberries. 1 quart water. 

2 lemons. 1 small cup sugar. 

Squeeze the juice from the strawberries and lemons, then add 
sugar and water. Before serving put chopped ice in the glasses 
to be used. Mrs. C. B. R. 

SODA WATER. 

2 quarts boiling water. 3 pounds sugar. 

1 pint cold water. 3 ounces wintergreen. 

4 whites of eggs. 3 ounces tartaric acid. 

Pour cold water on acid, and boiling water on sugar. 
When cold add wintergreen and acid. Beat eggs and add last. 
Beat all together; bottle and cork. Keep in a cool place for 
use. Put Vi teaspoonful soda in ^4 glass ice water; add four 
tablespoonfuls of mixture. This is equal to the best soda 
water. ^ Josephink. 



JELLIES. 



Mrs. Crawford ranney. 



" The amassed thou!;>ht and experience of innum- 
erable minds." — Emerson. 

CURRANT JELLY No. I. 

Pick currants before too ripe. Remove all dry leaves and 
bad currants; wash and spread to dry; then mash them and 
hang in cheese cloth bags to drcTrn over night. To 1 tumbler- 
ful of juice, drained, allow 1 tumblerful of sugar. Boil the juice 
twenty minutes; skim carefully; add the sugar and let it boil 
until it will jelly when dropped on an ice-cold dish. Pour into 
tumblers. This is as clear as crystal. Press the juice from the 
bags for the second kettleful, and proceed in like manner as 
before. This makes nice jelly, but not as clear as the juice that 
drains from the bags. Twelve ((uarts currants make 20 tum- 
blers of jelly. Mrs. G. M. Howe. 



7a:> COOKERY CRAFT. 



CURRANT JELLY No. 2. 

Pick over the currants, wash, leaving them on the stems. 
As thev heat, break with wooden ladle; when hot squeeze in 
coarse linen bag; then boil live minutes very fast; add 1 pound 
sugar to each pint of juice; stir well and boil again five min- 
utes. JoSKPHINE. 

a005EBERRY JELLY. 

Cut the gooseberries in halves, (they must be green) and 
put them into an agate kettle on the back of the range till the 
berries are soft; then mash with a spoon and put them in the 
jelly bag to drain. When all the juice is squeezed out measure 
it, and to 1 pint of juice allow 1 pound of loaf sugar. Put the 
juice and sugar into the preserving kettle and boil twenty 
minutes, skimming carefully. Put the jelly warm into tum- 
blers. MivSs S. A. Mather. 

PLUM JELLY. 

Place the plums in a kettle and add enough water to cover; 
let them come slowly to the boiling point, then simmer gently 
until soft. Put in a jelly bag to drip. Use equal quantities of 
juice and sugar. Boil the clear juice fifteen minutes; add the 
sugar, which has been heated, and boil five or ten minutes 
longer, or until it jellies. This can be determined by dropping 
a little on a saucer; if it remains rounded and slightly jellied it 
is done; or drop a little into a glass of cold water, if it drops 
to the bottom without clouding the water it is done. Put 
into heated glasses and expose to the air until firm and cool. 

Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 
blackberry jelly. 

Heat the mashed berries carefully until the juice will flow 
freely. Squeeze through a jelly bag. Use equal quantities of 
juice and sugar and boil until it thickens, when tested, like 
plum jelly. Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Wash the fruit, quarter, but do not pare; barely cover 



jELUi:s\ ir,3 

with cold water, boil and mash until soft. Drain, but do not 
squeeze the fruit. Boil the juice with an equal quantity of 
.sugar until it jellies. The juice of 1 lemon added to each pint 
of juice improves the flavor. Miss Lizzie Ross. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Pare and core quinces and cut into small pieces. Put the 
cores and parings into a preserving kettle, adding any left from 
quinces for preserves. Add cold water enough to cover, and 
simmer for two hours. The cores and seeds are rich in pectine, 
and using them one cannot fail to secure a hrm, bright jelly. 
Put the cut up quinces into a kettle and treat the same as the 
cores and parings. Strain the juice from both kettles through 
a jelly bag, allowing them to drain instead of squeezing if you 
wish a clear jelly. To each pint of juice allow % pound of 
sugar. Boil the juice rapidly twenty minutes, skimming 
carefully, without stirring. Add hot sugar, boil one minute, 
and dip into jelly glasses. Let stand a day or two in a dry, 
cool place before covering. Mrs. Hknkv Fairbanks. 

QRAPE JELLY. 

Use Salem gra])es, heat them, putting in a little water to 
keep from burning. When well cooked, strain and boil the 
juice twenty minutes, add an equal quantity of sugar and stir 
till it is dissolved, then put into tumblers. 

Mrs. Hhxrv Frkxch. 

JELLIED QUINCE. 

Slice the quinces very thin. Weigh an ecjual quantity of 
sugar, boil the fruit until very tender in water enough to cover 
the slices. Take out of the kettle, add the water that the 
rinds and cores have been boiled in ; strain through jelly bag, 
add the sugar and boil until it will jelly, then add the slices 
and boil about five minutes. Put into jelly tumblers, being 
careful to keep the slices whole. The orange quince is the best. 

JOSKPIIIXE. 



154 COOKERY CRAFT 



1894. "These should be hours for necessities, not 
for delights. "—He/zrr VIIL 

PEACH MARHALADE. 

This, like otherm.'irmalades.mavbe made from the parings 
and the pulp of fruit which is too soft to can. Use only enough 
water to cover. Boil vslowly until soft enough to rub through 
a sieve, add % as much sugar as fruit and boil slowh' about 
three quarters of an hour until it thickens. Stir frequently. 

Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 

cranberry jelly. 

Put the cranberries into the preserving kettle with 1 pint 
of water for each quart of berries. Cook until soft, then hang in a 
cheese cloth bag to drain. Measure the juice and allow an 
equal quantity of sugar. Boil the juice twenty minutes, then 
add the sugar, stirring until dissolved. It is not necessary, 
usually, to boil again. Mrs. Crawford Ranney. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

12 sweet oranges. 6 lemons cut fine. 

15 pints water. 

Let stand twentj'-four hours ; boil three hours, then add 
12 pounds sugar and boil thirty minutes. 

M Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

WILD GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, wash and put on to boil; 
as they heat, stir and mash with a wooden spoon, when well 
cooked, sift through a wire sieve. To every pint of pulp add 
1 pound of sugar. Boil fifteen minutes. Putinto jelly tumblers. 

Miss Julia A. Taplin. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

The juice of 5 oranges and 1 lemon, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups 
boiling water. Soak V^ box of gelatine in 1 cup of cold water for 
an hour, add this to the boiling water and the juice of oranges 
and lemon, and strain all that the jelly may be clear. 

Mrs. Richard Hovev. 



JELLIES. 155 

"A man I knew wlio liveiJ ujjon a smile; 
And well it fed him; he looked plump and fair." 

— Young. 
LEMON JELLY No. I. 

One-half box gelatine soaked over night in 1 cup water, 
add 1 heaping cup sugar, juice of 2 lemons, grated rind of 1. 
Let stand one hour, add 2 cups boiling water, and stir until 
dissolved. Strain and cool. Mrs. S. H. Brackett. 

LEMON JELLY No. 2. 

Pour 1 pint boiling water on V2 box gelatine, add the juice 
of 1 lemon and 2 cups sugar. When nearly cold strain and add 
the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, then beat the whole 
together and put in a glass dish. Miss Addik S. Alvord. 

COFFEE JELLY No. I. 

V2 package gelatine. 1 pint new milk. 

V2 pint strong coffee. % cup sugar. 

1 cup sweet cream. Whites of 2 eggs. 

Put gelatine into pitcher, pour over it the milk, let stand V2 
hour, add the boiling coffee, stirring until all is dissolved, add 
the sugar and strain, through muslin. Stir in the cream, 
whipped, and the whites of the eggs well beaten. Pour into 
molds. Serve with sugar and cream. Josephine. 

"All life originates in jelly; this is the germinal 
substance, primordial, structureless, out of which come 
the numberless varieties of animated beini»:s." 

COFFEE JELLY No. 2. 

1 ounce gelatine. V2 pint cold water. 

V2 cup sugar. IV^ pints strong hot coffee*. 

Pour the cold water on the gelatine and let stand till soft. 
Pour over this the hot coffee and add the sugar. Stir till the 
gelatine and sugar are dissolved, strain into a mold and set on 
ice to harden. Serve with vsugar and cream. 

Mrs. C. II. Merrill. 



Preser\'ing and Canning. 



Miss S. A. Mather 




GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

In canning, or preserving, the principal thing is to see that 
every bubble is taken out. It can be done bv slipping a knife 
or spoon carefulh' down the side of the can. 

Another thing, put the fruit into the cans boiling hot. This 
can be done by first putting a silver spoon into the can. 

See that the cans are well rinsed and filled with warm 
water and fitted to covers and rubbers. Also see that no can 
is nicked, as that will prevent sealing. 

After the cans are filled and bubbles taken out, heap the 
can with juice, put on cover, and seal. Set away till morn- 
ing. 

In the morning unfasten the top, then if, by taking hold 
of the cover only, you can lift the can without bubbles gather- 
ing near the rubber, it is sealed. Otherwise it must be heated 
over and tried again. I find this a good test. 

I prefer the ** Lightning" cans. 



PRnSBNVIXO AM) CANNINO. 157 



"So they took Cliristiann, her cliihlrcn,and Mercy, 
into the closet and showed them one of the apples 
tliat Eve did eat of, and that she also did give to her 
husband, and for the eatin*^ of whicli they both were 
turned out of Paradise, and askerl her what she 
ihou<rht that was?" — Banyan's Pilgrim's Progress. 

PRESERVED APPLE. 

Core and pare a dozen good sized apples and eut into 
eighths; make a syrup of 1 pound sugar, V2 pint water, let it 
boil, and then put in as much apple as can be boiled without 
breaking, Remove them carefully when tender. After all are 
done add a little more sugar, boil a few minutes, flavor with 
lemon and pour over the apples. S. A. M. 

PRESERVED TOnATOES. 

Take 6 pounds of tomatoes, peel; the peel and juice of 8 
lemons, 1 lemon sliced thin, and Vh pound of ginger tied up in 
a bag; put on the side of the range and boil slowly for three 
hours, Mrs. IIkxrv Fairbanks. 

PRESERVED TOMATOES. 

Take ripe tomatoes, peel, take out all seeds, put into the 
kettle. To 7 pounds of tomatoes take 3V^ pounds of sugar, 
the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, and 2 lemons sliced thin. 
Boil slowly, mashing fine. When sweet and thick put into 
jars or tumblers. Miss S. A. Mathkr. 

PRESERVED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Take gooseberries before quite ripe; allow a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit; stew them till (piite clear and till 
the syrup becomes thick. Mrs. HKxNRV Fairijaxks. 

WATERMELON PRESERVES. 

Cut a watermelon in two; take out the soft inside, leav- 
ing only the firm white rind. Cut into any shape. Boil the 
bits in water enough to cover, with fresh lemon peel to color 
yellow. When tender place in dishes to cool. Make a syrup 



ir,s COOKERY CRAFT. 



of 1 pound of su^ar and 1 teacup of water to 1 pound of mel- 
on. Let it boil, then put in the melon and boil till clear, with 
slices of lemon to flavor. When the melon is transparent take 
out with a skimmer; boil syrup till thick, then pour over the 
fruit. Miss S. A. Mather. 

OUINCB PRESERVES. 

Pare, (|uarter and core the fruit and then cut each quarter 
into three slices. Put into enough hot water to cover and 
boil till tender but not too soft. Skim out and put into cans. 
Make a thick syrup of the water in which they were boiled, 
using a cup of sugar to every cupful of water. When boiling 
skim clear and then fill the cans. Do not seal the cans till they 
have stood at least five minutes, for you can fill the second 
time with syrup. The orange quince is better for preserving 
as it cooks tender more easily. Equal parts of sweet apple 
and quince make a preserve that can hardly be told from the 
(juince alone. Treat the apples exactly as you do the quince. 

Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 

"Contact with the extremities of the papilla; of 
the tongue is re(|uisite for the best effect." 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

Peel and (juarter fruit. Allow % of a pound of sugar to 1 
pound of fruit. Make a syrup in proportion of 1 pint of wa- 
ter to 2 pounds of sugar. Cook fruit in syrup two or three 
hours, or to a golden brown. Mrs. Annie Horton. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Pare and place them on a plate in the steamer over boiling 
water, keeping them tightly covered. Steam until they can be 
easily pierced with a fork. Put into heated cans, standing in 
hot water till sealed. Make a syrup of 1 pint of water to each 
pound and a half of sugar. Pour over the fruit the hot syrup, 
and seal. Mrs. Annie IIorton. 



PRESERViNG AND CANNING. 159 



Explanatory' — ** Pompions arc sometimes called 

Pumpkins." 
" Plums erow on trees." 

PRESERVED PUMPKINS. 

Cut a thick yellow pumpkin into narrow strips about two 
inches long. Use 1 pound white sugar to 1 pound pumpkin. 
Pour over it 2 wineglassfuls of lemon juice for each pound of 
pumpkin. Next day put the peel of 1 lemon in a muslin bag 
and boil the whole long enough to make it tender without 
breaking. Skim out the pumpkin, let it cool, strain the syrup 
and boil ten minutes. Pour over pumpkin and seal \t up. 

Mrs. Laura Blodoktt. 

PLUMS. 

Wash and weigh the plums, using 1 pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit. Make a syrup, using V2 pint of water to 
2 pounds of sugar. Boil and skim, then put in plums, after 
they have been well pricked, and let them cook very slowly 
until sweet. Mrs. Sarah Pkknxmi. 

CANNED PURPLE EGGS. 

Wash and wipe the perfect plums. Make a syrup of 1 
pound of sugar to V2 pint of water; let it boil, then ])ut in 
as many plums as can be cooked without breaking; remove 
them carefully when tender and place in a jar. After all are 
done fill the jars with the syrup, after it has been skimmed 
and set away till morning. Then take a deep kettle, putting 
pieces of wood in the bottom, so the jars will not touch the 
bottom, set in the cans, filling the kettle with cold water nearly 
to the top of the cans ; let it come to a boil, then take the cans 
out and press out all air bubbles, then fill with hot syrup and 
seal. 

CANNED GREEN GAGE. 

Made the same as Purple Bggs. 



/6y; cookery craft. 



CANNED RASPBERRIES. 

Pill a cnn with ^oofl firm berries; then fill the ean with 
pure cold waiter, place in a deep kettle of cold water (putting 
pieces of wood in the bottom to prevent the can touching the 
kettle), let it boil a few minutes, press out the air bubbles, fit 
rubbers, fill with l)()ilin«i^ water, and vSeal. 

CANNED BLACKBERRIES. 

Made the same as Canned Raspberncs. 

COLD CURRANTS. 

Wash and drain, mash thoroughly, and to each pint or 
pound add equal amount of sugar, let stand several hours, 
(over night if you can) stir well and put in cans. Blackberries 
and raspberries can be put up in the same way. 

Mrs. Z. a. Richardson. 

CURRANT CONSERVE (For Heats.) 

Three pounds of currants picked from stems, 2 pounds best 
table raisins, 4 pounds sugar, 1 pint currant juice. Stone the 
raisins, mix with the currants, heat the sugar in the oven, pour 
the juice over it. Mix the currants and raisins with it and 
boil until it jellies. Put into jelly glasses. J. C. K. 

''Will't ])lease your lionor taste of these con- 
serves ? " — Taming of the Shrew. 

CURRANT CONSERVE. 

7 pounds currants. pounds sugar. 

2 pounds raisins. 2 oranges. 

Stone and chop the raisins. Put with the currants, sugar, 
and juice of oranges and cook twenty minutes or half an hour. 
The grated rind of oranges can be added if you like. 

Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 

jellied currants. 

Pick over and wash the currants (drain well), and weigh 
equal (juantities of sugar and fruit. Boil the fruit ten minutes, 



PRESEkVIS(i AND CAXXIXf^. Uil 



add the su/;?ar £ind boil another ten minutes ( measure the time 
from the minute hoilin/j^ eommenees ) ; put into eans. As it 
c(M)Is the syrup will be a fine jelly, JosivI»hink. 

COLD STRAWBERRIES. 

Piek over firm, fresh berries. If sandy, rinse and drain vvell. 
Then to 3 eups of berries, t«'ike 2 of su^ar, put into a IrMrge 
earthen bowl, mix well, and plaee in the refrij;(er«'itor till morn- 
ing. Then stir well, but not beat, take oif all bubbles, ])ut 
into eans, press out air (it will take a lon^' while), seal, wipe 
off ean, and at once roll in two or three thieknesses of ])aper, 
so no li/^ht will touch the fruit. Put in a dark eellar. 

Found good at the end of the year. 

Miss S. A. Matukk. 

APPLE GINOER. 

f) pounds sour apples. o pounds sugar. 

2 ounecs ginger root. 2 or '5 slieed lemons. 

Make syrup of the sugfir, eut «'ipples into sniidl pieees — 
Sfjuares. Boil all together till apples take on a elcar, rieh, 
yellow eolor. Shkhi»cotk. 

CANNED CRANBERRIES. 

1 eup eranberries. 1 euj) water. 

1 eup sugar. 

Boil eranberries in the water until thev break, then add 
sugar until thoroughly mixed. Mrs. II. Paddock. 

WILD (iRAPE PRESERVES. 

Piek over the grapes, wash and drain ; put into a kettle 
and set on the baek of the stove till heated through. Rub 
through a wire sieve till nothing but seeds and skins remain. 
To every pint of licpiid add 1 pound of sugar. Hoil fifteen 
minutes and seal. J. 

CANNI-D RHUBARB. 

Prepare the rhid>arb as for pies, pour boiling water over 
it, and ])our off, then add enough water to barely eover (as 



IG:^ COOKIiRY CRAFT. 



for saucf), cook till tender, put into cans hot and seal. Ik- 
sure to take oil" all the scum. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

I'eel and slice gc^od, rij)e tomatoes into a kettle with a 
little salt, cook well, takin/;^ off all scum. Can while hot. If 
they are sealed the next morning, they are all right. 

Mrs. IIknkv Fairbanks. 



Pickles, Sweet and Sour, 



MRS. F. A. TIFFT— MISS ADDIC ALVORD. 




"The thouiiflitsliere embodied are clear, axiomatic, 
vigorous and valuable for solving many difficulties." 

— Z)ea/3 of Canterbury. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

To 5 pounds of green gooseberries put 4 pounds of brown 
sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful ground cloves, 1 
tablespoonful ground cinnamon. Boil gently four hours. Stir 
frequently. Mks. Abijah Smith. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 



5 pounds currants. 
4 pounds brown»sugar. 
V2 teaspoonful ginger. 
A little nutmeg. 

Boil slowly two hours; longer if you wish it (juite thick. 

Mrs. Mkrrill. 



1 pint vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 



UH- COOKUKY CRAFT. 

5PICI-I) (iRAPI-5. 

7 poinirls ^^r.'ipcs. 1 pint vine;^ar. 

.'> ])()tiiuls su^.'ir. Spice to tnste. 

S(|iiccv.c the pulps from the skins, cook them till tender, put 
them thronj^h <'i colander to remove seeds; then ])ut pulj)s and 
skins to/^ether and make according to the al>()ve receipt. Hoil 
till the /j;rape skins are tender and the comj):)und thick. 

Mrs. IIknry Frhnch. 
5pici:i> tomatoes. 

Peel and slice ripe tomatr)es, cook twenty minutes. To 
each pound oi cooked tomatoes add V2 f)ound brown sugar, V2 
pint vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each iff cassia, cloves and ginger. 
Stew slowlv two hours. Mrs. Crawford Ranxkv. 

PICKLBI) BLACKBERKIHS. 

7 pounds blackberries. 1 pint vinegar. 

'A pounds sugar. 

Simmer (not boil) one hour. Nice for pies. 

Mrs. II. n. HvRox. 

BI:I:T PICKLH5. 

Choose small beets, boil until tender. Make a syrup of 1 
cu|) of sugar and 1 pint of cider vinegar, l)oil five minutes and 
pour over the beets while hot. Seal in glass jars. 

Mrs. AiiijAii Smith. 

CiiCllMBHR PICKI.HS No. 1. 

1 gallon cider vinegar. 1 cu]) salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls white mustard 1 tfiblespoonful powdered 
seed. alum. 

Pour boiling water over cucumbers,let them stand one night, 
wipe dry and put in the prepared vinegar. 

Mrs. IIknrv I^^rknch. 

"lie delivered him.scifof these judicious sentiments 
in that peculiar, acid tone hereditary to four genera- 
tions raised on east winds, salt fish, and large, white- 
bellied, pickled cucumbers." — O. W, Holmes. 



p/cKu:s. uk-i 



CUCUMBER PICKLES No. 2. 

2 gallons cider vinogjir. Mj ])oun(l l)lack mustard seed, 

4 ounces ginger-root. l)rnised and put in a b«'ig. 

'5 ounces whole black peppers. 'A ounces alls])ice. 
1 ounce whole cloves. 

Wash cucumbers and soak in salted water twentj'-four 
hours, then wash and wi])e carefully and put in the above 
mixture cold. Tse onions if you like. Will keep any length of 
time. Mks. Hhnkv Fkhnch. 

(iREEN CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pick small cucumbers, wash and wipe carefully, |)ut them 
in glass jars. To 1 (juart good vinegar add 1 teaspoonful 
salt and V2 teaspoonful pepper. Scald vinegar and pour on 
cucumbers and seal the jars cpiickly. 

Mrs. W. L. Kisshll. 

SHALL CUCUHBER PICKLES. 

Wash cucumbers, soak in a strong brine twenty-four hours. 
(Make brine of rock salt and boil.) To 1 gallon of strong 
cider vinegar (cold) add V2 pound of the mixed pickling spices, 
(father your cucumbers each morning; add to the vinegar the 
ones gathered the previous morning and put the new ones into 
the brine until vou fill vour jar. Mks. (j. M. IIowk. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

7 pounds peaches. i\ pints vinegar. 

»'{ pounds sugar. 1 tablespoonful each of mace 

1 teaspoonful each of celery and cinnamon, 
seed and whole cloves. 
Rid) the fur oft with a coarse cloth, prick with a fork and 
stick in the cloves. Fleat in just water enough to cover until 
almost to a boiling point ; take out the peaches and add to the 
water 8 poimds of sugar. Hoil fifteen minutes, skim and add 
.'5 pints of vinegar and the remaining spices in muslin bags. 
Boil this mixture ten minutes, then put in the fruit and boil 



160 COOKERY CRAFT. 



until you can ])ierce with a straw. Take out the peaches and 
spread in dishes to cool. Boil the syrup down thick. Pack 
the peaches in glass jars and pour over the syrup hot. 

Mrs. Hkxry Fairbanks. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES. 

10 pounds peaches. 2 (juarts vinegar, 

f) pounds sugar. 

Put the sugar and vinegar together and add whole cloves 
and cinnamon to taste. Put a dozen peaches in the syrup and 
cook until they can be pierced with a silver fork, then take out 
on a plate and put 3 cloves in each one. Place the peaches in 
ajar, and after the fruit is all cooked, boil the syrup five min- 
utes and pour over the fruit. Scald the syrup three days in 
succession. Mrs. C. C. Montgomery. 

"Thou shalt be * * * stewed in brine. 

Smarting in lingering pickle." — Cleopatra. 

RIPE CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLE No. i. 

Pare, cut and take out seeds of ripe cucumbers, put in pans 
and sprinkle with salt, cover with boiling water and let stand 
twenty-four hours; then remove from that and cover cucum- 
bers with weak vinegar and let stand another twenty- four 
hours; take out of that, passing each piece through the band to 
removeany soft part. Put in kettleand to 1 quart of vinegar 
add 1 pound sugar; cinnamon, cloves and allspice to taste. 
Cook till tender. Put spices in little bags. 

Mrs. VV. L. Russell. 

ripe cucumber sweet pickle no. 2. 

7 pounds ripe cucumbers. V2 ounce each of ginger root, 

'5 pounds sugar. stick-cinnamon, whole cloves 

1 quart vinegar. and allspice berries. 

Prepare cucumbers and rub in salt the night before using. 
In the morning boil in alum water until soft, drain well, put in 
a stone jar and pour over the syrup while it is hot. Have the 



PICKLES. 167 



spices in muslin bags. After standing three days, scald and 
pour over again hot. Mother's receipt. 

Mrs. Hknry Fairbanks. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Eight pounds green tomatoes chopped fine, add 4 pounds 
brown sugar and boil down three hours; add 1 quart vinegar, 
1 teaspoonful each ofmace, cinnamon and cloves. Boil about 
fifteen minutes; let it cool and put in jars. 

Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

mustard pickles. 

1 quart green tomatoes. 1 pint onions. 

1 quart green cucumbers. 1 pint cabbage. 

Put in a weak brine at night. In the morning boil until 
tender and chop. Make a syrup of 1 quart vinegar and 2 
cups sugar; to this add chopped vegetables, 2 large spoonfuls 
of mustard and thicken with % cup flour. Boil until thick and 
well done. Mrs. H. E. Bvron. 

" Efficient but not sufficient." 

PICCALILLY No. I. 

1 peck tomatoes. 2 tablespoonfulseach ofalls])icc, 

1 cup white mustard seed. cloves and cinnamon. 

1 cup grated horseradish. 1 pint sugar. 

Sprinkle over the tomatoes 1 cup salt and let them stand 
over night. Drain and rinse in cold water. Chop and boil 
until tender in weak vinegar. Heat the sugar and vinegar, 
add spices tied in a bag. When boiling hot pour over the 
tomatoes. Six chopped onions may be added if desired. 

Mrs. F. a. Tifft. 

PICCALILLY No. 2. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful red pepper. 1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

V^teaspoonfulground mustard. V^ tablespoonful cloves. 
1 tablespoonful allspice. 



16S COOKERY CRAFT. 



To 1 peck of green tomatoes sliced add 1 cup salt. Let stand 
over night, drain, boil in 1 gallon good vinegar with 2 or 3 
onions until tender. Skim them out and boil the vinegar down 
to one-third, then add the above ingredients. Pour over the 
tomatoes hot and cover till cold. 

Mrs. Gko. C. Burnham. 

red cabbage pickle. 

Take red cabbages, quarter and take out the hard stalk; 
then chop and lay in an earthen bowl with a good sprinkling 
of salt, put in a cool place for twenty-four hours, after which 
rinse in cold water and drain. To 1 quart of strong vinegar 
put 2 tablespoon fuls of black pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of all- 
spice and 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and mace. Bring to a 
boil, then put in the cabbage, let boil twelve minutes, then set 
off and allow to cool slowly with cover on. 

Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

tomato catsup. 

To V2 bushel skinned tomatoes add 1 quart best cider vine- 
gar, 1 pound salt, H pound black pepper, 1 ounce African 
cayenne, ^ pound allspice, 1 ounce cloves, 3 boxes ground 
mustard, 20 cloves of garlic, 6 onions, 2 pounds brown sugar 
and 1 handful peach leaves. Boil this for three hours, con- 
stantly stirring to keep from burning. Let cool and then 
strain through a sieve and put into bottles. It improves with 
age. S. M. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP, 

12 large green cucumbers. 8 or 4 medium sized onions. 

1 quart vinegar. 1 tablespoonful pepper. 

»'{ tablespoonfuls salt. 

Pare and grate the cucumbers and onions, add the other 
ingredients, srirring together thoroughly. Let stand a few 
hours and then put up in bottles or glass jars. This is not 
heated at all and will always retain the flavor of the fresh 
vegetables. Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 



PICKLUS. 1G9 



CHILI SAUCE. 

18 ripe tomatoes (pared). 3 green peppers chopped fine. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 onion. 

1 teaspoonful each of all kinds 1 cup sugar, 
of spice. 2V^ cups vinegar. 

Boil slowly one-half hour and bottle for use. 

L. B. M. 



I 



FOR THE SICK 



MISS Julia a. taplin. 




UNLEAVENED WAFERS. 

Sift 1 pint flour, (snlt), mix to a stiff dough with new 
milk, roll out very thin, cut into round eakes, bake very quickly. 

CURD AND WHEY. 

1 teaspooniul Fairchild's Ks- 1 small pint new milk, 
sencc of Pepsin. 
Have the milk just warm, what we call milk warm, put 
into glass dish, stir in the essence of pepsin, set away to cool. 
Serve with sugar, or sugar and cream. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

1 cup tapioca. 3 cups cold water. 

Wash the tapioca in 3 or 4 waters. Drain and 
pour 3 ca])s of cold water over it, let it stand over night, 
or at least four hours. Cook in double boiler. When it begins 
to look clear stir often. Add boiling water if required. When 
quite clear pour into molds. Serve cold with sugar and 
cream. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 171 



SAOO. 

2 cups cold water. 2 tahlcspoonfuls of sago. 

Wash the sago and put into the cohl water, set into double 
l)oiler. Stir often, let it cook half an hour, serve hot with 
sugar and cream. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

1 pint sweet milk. 2 dozen raisins. 

V2 teaspoonful cornstarch. 

Quarter and boil raisins twenty minutes. Let all the water 
boil away, add milk and cornstarch, boil ten minutes, season 
with salt and strain. 

** Yet I do fear thy nature; 
It is too full o* the milk of human kindness." — Endy Macbeth. 

ARROW ROOT ORUBL. 

1 tablespoonful arrow root. V2 pint sweet milk. 
V2 pint boiling water. 

Boil fifteen minutes. Sweeten with loaf sugar. Bxcellent 
for children with bowel trouble. Mrs. Irvino Frost. 

INDIAN MEAL ORUEL. 

1 cup of meal (granulated 2 (juarts boiling water, 
is the bdst.) 
Stir the meal into the water slowly, salt to taste, let it 
simmer one hour. It is much better if cooked longer. Add 
cream to taste. 

ORAHAH ORUEL. 

Dissolve 2 large spoonfuls of graham meal in 1 cup of 
cold water, add 1 quart of warm water and heat gradually 
for an hour. Then boil steadily for one hour, adding boiling 
water until you have 1 (juart of gruel, strain, salt and 
sweeten to suit taste. Mrs. Mary J. Tai»li\. 

OATMEAL JELLY. 

Pour 1 pint of cold water over 2 cups of fine oat- 
meal. IvCt stand one-half hour. Add 1 quart boiling water, 



171* COOKERY CRAFT. 



a teaspoonfnl of salt. Cook otic lioiir in double boiler. Sift 
through wire sieve, pressing hard with wooden spoon. Set 
jelly away to eool. Serve with su^ar and cream. 

*' Oatnunl is the mcfd of onts. It is very good 
food."— Uf/As^er. A. I). is:t(). 

" It should he boiled till it cannot swell any more 
on the stoiuMcli." — llippocraics, on Ptisnn.li. C.330. 

OATMEAI. ORUEL. 

Put 1 enp fine oatmeal into 1 pint cold water. Let 
stand half hour. Stir well and strain off the water. Hoil 
iifteen minutes. Strain and salt. Add cream or milk if 
allowed. Serve hot. 

8079 
"The minimum temperature should be- -—„,-'- —- -=2731 C." 

' 3.07X0.216 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Stir into 1 pint boilin/^ (new) milk 1 tablespoonful 
flour wet withcold milk. Cook very slowly onehour (indouble 
boiler, covered.) If it evfiporates add more milk, keeping the 
pint. When done strain and salt. 

Mrs. B. R. Alyord. 

parched corn coffee. 

Brown the corn and break (not very fine.) Pour over it 
boiling water, l)oil a few moments, add scalded milk, sugar if 
vou like. Mrs. B. R. Alyord. 

COUOH MIXTURE. 

Boil 1 ounce of flaxseed and 1 ounce of sbppcry elm 
bark in 1 (piart of water for half an hour. Strain and add 
to the licpiid the juice of 2 lemons and half a pound of rock 
candy or sugar. If the cough is accompanied by weakness and 
loss of appetite, add V2 ounce of powdered gum arable 
and simmer for another hfdf hour. Take wineglass full when 
needed. Mrs. P. f). B. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 173 



" For cough of the Lun«>t>cs: take a Cock, pull him 
alive, cutt him upe, take his intralles out, wipe him 
clean, put him in a stille with a poltle of sack and a 
pottle of Red Cow's milk.- Ms. Medycinc liokc of Dr. 
S. Jonas ofliettwys-y-Cocd 1650. 

A refreshing and nourishing drink for an invalid may be 
made ])y stirring the yoke of 1 <^gi^ into a glass of lemonade. 

Mrs. p. I). B. 

Stir in a glass of milk the white of 1 Qgg lightly beaten. 

Mrs. p. D. B. 

mulled jelly. 

One tablespoonful of currant or grape jelly. Be£it with it 
the white of 1 egg and a little loaf sugar. Pour (m it ^ ])int 
of boiling water. Break into it a slice of dry toast or cracker. 

Mrs. Irvln'g Frost. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Four tablespoonfuls of whole flaxseed with 1 quart of 
boiling water ])oured on. Juice of 2 lemons minus the peel. 
Sweeten to taste. Steep three hours in a covered pitcher. If 
too thick put in cold water with the lemon juice and sugar. 
Ice for drinking. Mrs. Iryinc; Frost. 

RICE JELLY. 

Mix 1 heaping tablespoonful of rice flour with a little 
water (smooth), pour into it slowly 2 small cu])s of boiling 
water. Sweeten to taste. Boil until clear. Flavor with lemon 
juice. Put into molds. 

Bellows F^alls Cook Book. 

sago toast. 

Boil in V2 pint of milk 1 teaspoonful of sago with a little 
salt. When boiled clear pour over toasted crackers. 

B. F. C. B. 

BREAKFAST DISH FOR the SICK. 

Let fi slice of bread drv in the oven. Then toast brown. 



17 1 COOKERY CRAFT. 

licit swict cream or rich milk hot. Sfilt to taste. I'oiir over 
the bread, serve hot. J. J. A. T. 

HKBf THA NO. I. 

Cut 1 pound lean lieef very fine. I'ut into farina kettle. 
Add IV2 pints cold water. Set in cold place. Ix't stand 
over night. Put into boiler of hot water and cook one-half 
hour. Take out l)eef and season the tea. 

Mrs. C. Iv. Pi'tnev. 

Bl:l:l' TKA No. 2. 

Two pounds best beefsteak cut very fine, trimming off all 
fat. Put in a (juart glass jar pressing in lightly. Fill jar full. 
Then pour in cold water. S<.Tew down the cover, put in 
steamer and cover closely, steam three hours. Strain through 
a cloth strainer, pressing but little. Set away to cool. Skim 
ofTevery particle of fat that may be left on. Heat andserveas 
wanted. Mrs. (iKo. HoWK. 

LONii MADH BHHf TI:A. 

Take 2 or,'' pounds of shin of beef. Remove all the skin, and 
the marrow from the bone. Cut the meat into small pieces 
and have the bone broken up. Take also a knuckle of veal, 
that is, just the knuckle bone. Have it broken up, and put all 
into a strong earthen jar. IMace the jar in a large saucepan 
of boiling water and tie the cover down with a piece r^f stout 
brown |)aper. I'se neither salt nor pepjier. lA*t it boil slowly 
all day. When done the jar will be filled with meat gravy. 
Strain this and when cold it will be a strong jelly. In summer 
this may be served cold. In winter pour hot water (iver a 
jiortion and you have beef tea. This will keep a week in 
summer, in a cool place, and much longer in winter. 

Mrs. Hllkn B. Kyhuko. 

" 'Tis not eiKJUgh to help the feeble up 
Hut to Hup[K>rt him after." 

Timon of Athens. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 175 



CHICKEN AND BEEF BROTH. 

One small chicken, same weight in lean beef. Cut in small 
pieces. Boil four hours in water to cover. Strain through a 
colander. Salt and let cool. Remove all fat. Put 1 dessert- 
spoonful in a coffee cup and iill the cup with boiling water. 

Mrs. W. J. White. 

To remove grease from broths pass a piece of writing paper 
over the top, using several pieces. B. F. C. B. 

FLOUR ROLL. 

Tie 1 pint sifted flour in a stout bag, and boil ten hours. 
When done take out of bag and drv in warm oven. Very good 
to make gruel, also for children and babies having any 
bowel trouble. 

CRACKER PUFF. 

Six crackers, 1 quart new milk, a pinch of salt. Butter a 
pudding dish. Put the crackers in the dish. Pour the milk 
over the crackers, put into a slow oven, cook until the crackers 
are a light puff. Serve hot. L. O. P. 

Put into chicken and lamb broths just a bit of soda when 
given to the sick, to prevent any acidity in the stomach. 

L. O. P. 

INVALID'S SOUP. 

One cup barley or oatmeal,! pound juicy lean beef. Cut 
the beef fine. Cook in double boiler (covered tightly) one hour. 
Cook barley in double boiler one hour in 1 pint of water. 
Strain beef, add barley broth, season to taste. 

Mrs. Matthews. 

WHITE SOUP. 

1 pint new milk. 1 teaspoonful cornstarch. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

Cook milk and cornstarch in double boiler ten minutes. 
Beat the whites, add quickly, take from fire, beat all together, 
3ea^oj) with salt. 



17(i COOKERY CRAFT, 



LEMON JELLY. 

1 box gelatine. 8 lemons — only the juice. 

1 i)int cold water. 2 oranges — only the juice. 

1 (juart boiling water. 2 cups sugar. 

Pour the cold water over the gelatine, let stand one-half 
hour, then pour on boiling water, stir until all dissolved, add 
sugar, lastly the fruit juice, strain and set on ice, or in a cool 
place. 

GELATINE AND ARROW ROOT FOR BABIES. 

One dessertspoonful gelatine soaked in V^ cup of cold 
water ten minutes. Add 1 pint boiling water. Boil ten 
minutes. One dessertspoonful arrow root dissolved in cold 
water and stirred into gelatine. Add 1 pint milk and just 
bring to a boil. Add 2 small teaspoonfiils of sugar and a 
l)inch of salt. Mrs. French. 



TIMELY SUGGESTIONS. 




WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

One pint or 2 i-ups of gi'anulatcd sugar (or 2 iii'apiiig 
cups powdered sugar) is 1 pound. 

One quart sifted flour, 1 pound. 

Two Clips butter packed, 1 pound. 

Eight even tablespoon fuls, 1 gill. 

To measure a spoonful of drv material (all flour, meal, sail, 
spice and soda should be sifted before measuring), shake it 
till it is roundedoverin the same proportion as the spoon is con- 
cave. A scant teaspoonful is leveled off with a knitc. One- 
half spoonful is divided through the spoon lengthwise. 
13 



17S COO KICKY CRAFT. 



PICKLED MEAT No. i. 

() gallons water. 9 pounds coarse salt. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 1 (juart molasses. 

1 ounce saleratus. 100 pounds meat. 

3 ounces saltpetre. 

This should he skimmed while boihng and the meat, tightly 
packed, should have the brine poured on when it is cold. 

Mrs. Hknry Fairbanks. 

PICKLED HEAT No. 2. 

To 100 i)ounds meat take gallons water, 9 pounds salt, 
3 ounces nitre, 1 ounce saleratus. 

Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

sausage meat. 

" This is so fantastic in its habit, so wedded to 
literature, science and speculation, that its name calls 
up a host ot thoughts." 

25 pounds meat. V2 cup black pepper. 

V2 cup salt. 2 cups pulverized sage. 

Mrs. Wm. Clement. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into the double 
boiler; when nearly melted add m cups of cheese cut fine, 
V2 teaspoonful mustard, a ^peck of cayenne. Stir all the time. 
Add V2 cup ale, beer or milk slowly. When smooth add 2 eggs 
well beaten. Serve hot on toast or toasted soda crackers. 

Mrs. Edward Ross. 

CHEESE FINGERS. 

Cut good pastry into strips three inches long and two 
inches wide. Strew with grated cheese, season with pepper and 
salt ; double the paste upon this lengthwise and bake in a 
quick oven. Brush over with beaten egg just before taking 



TIMELY SUOGB'^riOXS ITU 



them up, and sift a little powdered eheesc upon them. Pile^ 
log-cabin-wise, upon a folded na])kin laid within a flat dish, and 
eat without. delay as thev are not t»;ood cold. 

CHEESE RELISH FOR TEA. 

To 1 full cup of coarse bread crumbs add 3 cups sweet 
milk, a good sized piece of butter and 1 cup grated cheese. 
Put into a pudding dish, strew bread crumbs thickly over the 
top and then bits of butter and l)ake twenty minutes or till a 
rich brown. Serve hot. \V. C. B. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAH IN COFFEE. 

Beat 1 i:^^ to a froth, add to it a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut and turn the ht)t coffee on it gradually. It is difficult 
to distinguish this from fresh cream. 

TOriATO TOAST. 

A delicious breakfast dish may be prepared by ])aring and 
slicing fine 5 or small round green tomatoes, (if too large 
they will have a sour taste), boil for twenty mifiutes in plenty 
of water, seas(m with plenty of butter, a little pepper and salt, 
and 1 or 2 beaten eggs. Then pour over well ])rowned toast. 

N. M. H. 

EGG TOAST. 

To 3 well beaten eggs add 1 pint of milk and a Httle salt. 
Dip slices of bread in this mixture and fry in a hot, well ])ut- 
tered frying pan till brown on both sides. Bat hot with butter. 

Mrs. Z. a. Richardson. 

COURTLAND BEEF. 

"I am a part of all Lhal I havetnet." 

— Tennyson — Ulysses. 

Shred rare roast beef fine, leaving in some of the fat. Put 
in a small stew pan (which has been rubbed with a clove of 
garlic) a little water, V2 a small onion, pepper and salt; boil 
until the onicm is quite soit, then add some of the gravy of the 



ISO COOKIiRY CRAFT. 



meat and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have readv a hot 
dish with triangles of toasted bread laid around it; mix a lit- 
tle vinegar with the meat and serve. 

COTTAOE CHEESE. 

In summer when milk sours so rfipidly, ijt can be made 
into very delicate little cheeses. Heat the loppered milk in a 
pan (m the stove until a small (juantity pressed in the hand 
will retain its shape, but be careful not to let it scald. Strain 
ofVthe whe\ through a cloth, [)ressing it gently. Put the curd 
thus obtained into a dish and mold with the hands, after add- 
ing a little salt and a little cream or butter, till it will take the 
form of a mold. 

EA5TER EGGS. 

Make a (piart of blanc-mange in the usual way. Empty 
12 ii^pr shells through a small hole in one end and rinse well 
with cold water. Divide the blanc-mange into four parts. 
Leave one white; stir into another 2 beaten yolks; into a third 
chocolate; intt) the fourth cochineal coloring. Heattheyellow 
over the fire long enough to cook the egg. Fill the shells with 
the various mixtures, three of each. Set upright in a pan of 
meal or flour to keep them steady, and leave until next day. 
Then fill a glass bowl more than three-fourths full with nice 
lemon jelly, broken into sparkling fragments. Break away the 
egg shells, bit by bit, from the blanc-mange. If the insides of 
the shells have been properly rinsed and left wet, there will be 
no trouble about this. Pile the vari-colored **cggs" upon the 
bed of jelly, lay shred preserved orange peel, or very finely 
shred candied citron about them, and surprise the children with 
them as an Baster day dessert. 

CHURCH S0CIAL5. 

r\)r one hundred and fifty persons, 350 rolls or tea biscuit, 
2 boiled hams, or 1 largehamand 10 pounds cold pressed corn 
beef, (if sandwiches are preferred, use 30 loaves baker's bread 



TIMELY SUGGHSTrONS. 181 



and 1 large boiled ham) 5 pounds of butter, 8 (juarts cream, 
quarts pickles, 4 pounds coffee, $1 worth of sugar, 12 loaves 
of cake. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

** I find a vast chaos and confusion of receipts and 
magistrals * ♦ * some of the chicfest of which I 
will now rehearse — be^innin^ with Helleborismus 
Matthioli."— /if/rto/7. 

To remove the skins from cooked beets, let them lie a few 
moments in cold water and the skins will slip off easily. 

Boiling onions in milk and water diminishes the strong 
taste. 

A piece of red pepper the size of a fdbert dropped into meat 
or vegetables when first put on to cook will aid in destroying 
bad odors. 

A small piece of charcoal in the pot with boiling cabbage 
removes the bad odor. 

A little cream tartar improves frosting. Also to keep eggs 
cool is a great help. 

To make whites of eggs beat uptjuickly add a pinch of salt. 

Eat salt with nuts, and take it after eating them, for indi- 
gestion. 

When canning fruit set your glass jars in a pan of warm 
water or on a folded cloth which has been dipped in cold water. 

Sprinkle a little flour over suet when chopping to prevent 
the pieces from sticking together. 

Keep cranberries in cold water in a cool place. Will keep 
for weeks. 

Dishes prepared with new milk should not be salted until 
ready to remove from the stove, as salt will curdle new milk. 

'* Milk adulterated from the ])nmp is worth less 
than pure milk."— ZJncj^c. Britnn. IXth Edition, 
Vol. vii. 

Browned flour should be kept on hand to use for thicken- 



1SL' COOKERY CRAFT 



in^. Prepare l)y putlinu: a little dry flour in the oven on a 
dripping p.'in, stir it oeeasionallynnd cook until it is all a li^ht 
brown. 

To stone raisins easily pour boiling water over them. 

In baking cake set a dish of water in the oven with it, and 
it will seldom scorch. 

Two apples kept in the cake box will keej) cake moist for a 
^reat len;;j^th of time, if the apples are changed when withered. 

In making puddings or pancakes snow (2 tablespoonfuls) 
stirred in (juickly is ecjual to 1 Qfj^^. 

There is no economy in purchasing brown sugar. The 
additional moisture it contains more than makes up for the 
diflerence in price. 

COLOGNE WATER. 

60 drops oil of lavender. (50 drops oil of bergamont. 

00 drops orange flower wfiter. 00 drops oil of lemon. 

HAIR TONIC. 

A good tonic for the hair is a teaspoonful of salt in a half 
pint of water, applied to the h.air two or three times a week. 

Hair tonic 2. — "Do^s' teeth, over-ripe dates, asses' 
hoofs, equal (|uaniitiei», cooked in oil and made fine." 
—Family Medicine Hook ofSchesch, Mother of Tcta^ 
Kwg of Egypt, U. C. 3700. 

The juice of a ripe tomato will remove stains from the 
hands and whiten them. 

MEDICINAL. 

Paroxysms of coughing may be prevented by swallowing 
a little dry salt. 

If one is fatigued, the best restorative is hot milk. A tum- 
})ler of the beverage as hot as it can be sipped. 

BURNS. 

There is nothing more soothing for a burn or scald than 
the white of an egg. 



TIMELY SVGGHSriOSS 1SS 

Another remedy ivS to beat the white of an egfr with a piece 
of alum till it forms a curd, and apply it to the bum, changing 
often. Use the piece of alum as a spoon. 

FOR STINGS OF INSECTS. 

Wash the part with water of ammonia; washing venomous 
bites with strong solution of salt and water; in bad cases, 
inserting the salt itself into the wound is recommended. 

POULTICE. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 

4 teaspoonfuls graham meal. 

Mix with hot water. Mrs. Harylin Paddock. 

"For this relief much thanks." — Hamlet. 

WASHING EMBROIDERED LINEN. 

When washing linen embroidered with white silk use cold 
water. It is the same with white woven silk. Keep hot water 
away from it and it will retain its purity of whiteness. 

All table linen embroidered with colored silks should be 
washed quickly in suds made with castile soap, rinsed thor- 
oughly then rolled in clean sheets and ircmed immediately per- 
fectly dry. 

WASHING RED LINEN. 

In washing a red linen tablecloth put enough powdered 
borax into tepid water to make it feel slippery. Use no soap. 
Hang in shade after rinsing, and iron when almost dry. 

Clean kid gloves with gasoline, rubbing till dr}-. 

CLEANING DRESS GOODS. 

Half pail of warm water, 1 tablespoonful of ammonia, 1 ta- 
blespoonful of salt, ^ cup vinegar. Mrs. J. M. Alvord. 

MILDEW. 

In removing mildew from clf)thes put a tablespoonful of 
chloride of lime in an earthen bowl, and add 4 quarts of cold 



IH'l , COOKHKY CRM'T. 

wntcr. Stir with a wooden spoon till dissolved. Put inil- 
dcwod article in and work it around with the spoon. Let it 
stay in the water till all the spots have disappeared, then 
throw into tub of cold water, wash well and rinse thoroughly. 
If the rinsing he thorough, the fabric will be iniinjured. 

i-KlllT STAINS. 

I'^resh fruit stt'iins may be removed from linen by pourin;;? 
boilin/j; water throfi^h the stained portion while it is still dry. 

INK STAIN.S. 

To remove ink stains apply lemon juice and salt and lay 
the article in the sun. 

OIL 5TAINS. 

To era.se sewing machine oil from miislins, soak the spots 
and wash in cold water. 

I-LAT-IRON5. 

Beeswax and salt will make flat-irons as smooth as glass. 
Kub sw'.Tt oil on them when you close your house. 

ABOUT THH H0ll5li. 

To remove coating from inside of teakettle fdl it with 
water, to which has been added <'i large piece of salsoda. Boil 
for about an hour. 

Hardwood floors nifiy be kept bright by washing with 
skim milk. 

Clcfin oilcloths with milk and water. 

Hot water, containing a little chloride of lime, poured into 
drains twice a week Avill prevent all unpleasant odors. Cop- 
peras water may be iiscd in the same way. 

In washing windows |)ut soda into the water and the 
finger marks, putty stains, etc., will be easily removed. 

Scrfitchcs may be removed from highly polished furniture 
by rubbing with a wr)olcn cloth saturated with boiled linseed 
oil. Shellac dissolvedinalcr)hol niav then beused as a varnish. 



TIMELY SUGGESTIONS. 185 



Remedy for scratches may also be found in Yonatt 
on the Horse. 

Common soda is good for polishing tinware. 
The white stains on inside of ice chest can be removed by 
scouring with any of the scouring soaps and baking soda. 

GREASE SPOTS. 

1 quart boiling water. 1 ounce pulverized borax. 

V2 ounce gutp camphor. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

To take oil out of carpets or any woolen stuff, apply buck- 
wheat flour plentifully. Never put liquid of any kind to such a 
grease spot. 

Soot stains may be taken from the carpet by covering 
quickly with dry salt before sweeping. 

Straw matting is kept clean by washing with a clean cloth 
and lukewarm water, to which has been added a little salt. 

Salt sprinkled upon the carpet before sweeping will make 
it look bright and clean. 

A teaspoonful of aqua ammonia (hartshorn) in the hot 
suds of the dish-pan will remove grease instantly and give a 
fine polish to silver and glass. 

The most satisfactory dusters are made of five cent cheese 
cloth, cut one yard long and neatly hemmed. 

To driveaway ants, take essence of anise seed, put on cloths 
and hang in the pantry where ants are troublesome. Also, 
sprinkle oil of pennyroyal about the places infested. As this is 
a poison care must be taken in the use of it. 

TO DESTROY HOTHS (OR BUGS) IN CARPETS. 

Wring a coarse towel out of clean water, spread it smoothly 
over the carpet and inm with a hot iron, changing the iron 
often. Repeat on all parts of the carpet suspected. The color 
of the carpet will not be injured and the moths will be destroyed 
bv the steam from the hot iron. 



IHO CnoKliNY CNM'T. 



CONUNDRUM FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 

How to make nice li^ht, nutritious griddle cakes without 
any of the ordinary Hquid mixings or means of raising. No 
water, milk, eggs, yeast or baking powder of any kind. Such 
were the cakes made bv a baker named \Vm. Hracketl, who 
used to practice his trade to good advantage in a domestic 
wav. S. II. Hkackktt. 

Answer to be looked for in the next issue of Cookery Craft. 

*' With SUipi<iily nncl sound Di^jcstinn injin may 
Irout imu'li. Therefore oil Cocjkery l(t us build, * * 
brjiiuHsliin;^' our Vry'nv^ \M\r\ 08 Cens«r, k't us ofTer 
sweet luccnsi "—Ilerr Ten/blsdrockh. 



COOKERY CRAFT. 



niSCELLANEOUSLY CONSIDERED. 



The historic basis and doctrine of Cookery are now tolera- 
bly well defined. Higher criticism has sighted the cook stove 
in Tubal Cains' blacksmith shop, though not then advanced to 
the six rimmer stage. The evolution of the doughnut may be 
distinctly traced by an imaginative mind in the Aryan Sun 
Myths relating to the annular solar eclipse. If the interesting but 
obscure allusion in theXIVth Fragment of Sanchuniathon refers 
to a then prevalent custom of giving bread with one fish ball, we 
have evidence not only of the liberal usages of the ancients, 
but of their early culinary mastery of the codfish. It is to be 
regretted that Homer's mention of nectar as an article of high 
diet does not include the Olympian flapjacks, though to our 
mind the inference is sufficiently clear. We may also reason- 
bly conjecture that pic attained a supreme development in the 
Hellenic culinary culture from the fact that the Nine Muses 
were Pie-rides. It was not till the last century that a poet 

arose who ventured to say, "Touch not the Pie !" seeing 

that a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. 

We detect symptoms of craft entering into the domain of 
Cookery as early as 1792 B. C, when it was proposed to get 
venison out of Jacobean goat. Ethically considered this was 



7^^ COOKERY CRAFT. 



so manifest!}' retrograde that we repudiate it. Under due 
restriction, however, it cannot be doubted that Cookery offers 
a legitimate field for craft, making it possible and proper to 
convert cheese into Welsh "rabbits" and oyster into blanketed 
pig; zoological achievements quite transcending the skill of 
primitive man. 

Remondino, in his treatise on human life, astutely remarks 
that discovery of the art of Cooking lengthened man's bill of 
fare, though not perhaps his Hfe, for now appear the first 
rumblings of gastric discontent.* He also points out that 
when man became an anthropophagic connoisseur he parted 
with somewhat of the optimism enjoyed under his primitive 
diet of berries and grasshoppers. 

Whilethis may be measurably true it is to be taken with a 
grain of salt. Anthropophagianism and grasshopper, how- 
ever optimistic, do not meet all the demands of an eclectic 
taste. The man of today has by scientific tests discovered 
that his mouth is capable of 2187 muscular variations. This 
he interprets as an invitation to various and voluminous diet 
as well as oratory. The result is that in the course of his years 
he eats up 4H tons of bread and butter, 59,606 hen's eggs, 
1556 fish, not including six-inch trout, 98,937 oysters, sweet- 
est morsels of the night, 22,671 winged fowl, 482 sheep, rams, 
lambs and beef cattle, 77 pigs, QV2 tons of onions, potatoes, 
turnips and squash. This is exclusive of fruits and peanuts 
which, with other items, give a total of 54 tons which the man 
will eat if he be not prematurely cut off during the process or 
by it. This calculation is based on the estimates of M. Soyher, 
slightly varied from the Gallic to American gustatory stand- 
ards. Nor can it be regarded large if we consider the immense 
demand at the present time for vital force — incalculable 
amounts of which are now known to be run off on bicvcles, 



* Carlyle seems to have arrived at the like conclusion. "I came forth 
with the direful persuasion that I was miserable owner of a diabolical ar- 
rangement called a stomach." 



M ISC ELL A NEO US L 1 ' CONS IDE RED 



189 



political jobber}^ and the newspaper portrait department of 
the great modern folk cures. 

The problem of the age therefore resolves itself to this: 
how properly to feed contemporaneous man, adjusting sup- 
ply to demand in 2187 muscular mouth movements; at the 
same time maintaining the ideal stomachic harmoniousness on 
which the stal)ility of our institutions may be said to depend. 
This phase of socir)logical study lies clearK' within the domain 
of woman's sphere: a brilliant solution of its mysteries may 
therefore be looked for along with the expert application of 
the principles of Cookery Craft. E. T. F. 




\ 



•■> 







, 


1 




m-&, 


1 


^ 


,u.,i!,\ii,i;y 

Pianos 

and 
Organs 

^cw Bflicland. 




sTf 


zm 


BURLINGTON and 
ST. .lOHNSBURV. VI. 



Housekeepers-^^ 

Our Plavorin){ BxtrncU are stronB^'" ttiaii the bottled extracts 

and will go farther. Our Baking; Soda the beat that money will 

bu>. Our Cream of Tartar ii chemically pure and of fine quality. 

These arc nil goods we can recommend. 

"=~~ WAlKEirS STMIIARD DRIT, STORE 

109 Eastern Avenue. 



Bundy's Shoe 5tore 

Contains all widths in Ladies' Shoes, from A to P.B. and sizex 
from 2'/i to 1). Special attention is called to our Ladies' Warm 
Lined Khciesi, because they are oT good style and are pretty, which 
is BomeLhinfr new for a warm shoe, A dressy, handsome, warm 
shoe Bit]i)ilieB a long (elt want. Obtained only at 

BUNDY'S SHOE STORE, 

-^MAIN STREET. 



Rule for Making a Fortune 

Take a five-dollar hili and four one-dollar bills 

— two-dollar billH may be used if more convenient 

— and, after folding them out smoothly, deposit 
them in the 

<• |ln$$ump$ic Sailings J&ank •> 

Do not disturb this deposit, but allow it to re- 
main at least ten years— adding each month as 
many one, two, five, or ten dollar bills as you can 
S])are— and allow the semi-annual dividends and the 
deposits to mix thoroughly together, and at the end 
of the period jou will have a small but a well- 
seasoned Fortune. 

MAIN ST., 8T. JOHN8BURY, Vt. 

Lapier's Ticket Agency 

For mileages on all New England railroads. — Money 
saved on tickets West.— Courteous attention.— Re- 
liable information. 

1 7 Eastern Avenue 



E. H. ROSS 
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON 

24 MAIN STREET 
ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



China Firing 



DECOKATISG TO ORDER. LESSONS IM OIL AND CHINA 
PAINTING. CHINA FOR SALE. 

Hiss Helen F. Shaw 

13 Belvidere Street (South Park) 

St. Johnsbury, Vt. — • 



JOHN M.ALLEN 
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON 

24 RAILROAD ST. 
ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



To flake a Suit of Clothes 



d o o o o o o 



\ 



Medium-sized Pocketbook 

One. pair of Legs 

Well balanced mind placed in a good sound Body. 

Shalce well and bring to 

"^^Wilson & King 



CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK AND TRUST CO. 



OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 

C. M. CHASE, President. A. L. BAILEY, Vice-President. 

JOHN T. RITCHIE, Treasurer. J. G. HOVEY. 

GEO. P. BLAIR. JAMES RITCHIE. 

C. E. JOSLYN. D. R. DENSMORE. 

• 

Capital Stock $50,000 00 

Undivided Profits 35,000 00 

Deposits 1,000,000 00 

Four per cent, interest paid on Saviners accounts. 

We receive accounts subject to check. $ 

Deposit boxes to rent, $3.00 and $5.00 a year. 



A— -^ ^ Take equal parts of good work- 

I— ^1*^^ ^ manship, well mixed with experi- 

ence and proper sanitary material, 
^^ ^ » putting in money enough so that 

V^^f^'f I V^^ f the mixture will not be too thin, 

making a plumbing job that will 
^ I be "well done" and warranted to 

T^^f* I please. If you want such a recipe 

call on 140. 

Sickness I a. b. noves & co. 

ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



3 



THE RECEIPTS IN THIS BOOK 



Are all right, but to ensure the best success use pure, 
strong Flavors, the best of Spices, a touch of Color, 
and Good Judgment. We can furnish all the 
requisites except good judgment. Call and see. 



Bingham's Drug Store 



1=2 the Success^^ 

Of good cooking lies in the quality of the 
.*. materials. I sell only the best of .*. 

Meats, Qame and Provisions 

4 A 4 

J. e. GRAg, A3 Main Street 



Domestic 

D^I^^^M^^ ^^^ While vou are reading don't 

UalVCl J^.^ — -^^^ forget 'that L. F. GASKILL 

is never behind on all kinds 
of FINE BAKING, and any kind that 

cannot be found in this book you may CO A/I o S t^ 

expect to find at the Domestic Bakery, O-^ 1t1.cI.II1 

Street 



WILLIAM DANIELS 

• • Dealer in Western and Native • • 

Meats and Provisions 

CHOICE . CUTS . A . SPECIALTY 

Also Groceries, Vejjjetables and Canned Goods. 



94 Railroad St., St. Johnsbury, Vt, 

4 



PILLSBURY'S 
BEST^ 



la the best 
flour made in America to- 
day. If jou do Dot be- 
lieve it try a barrel and be 
convinced. It will make 
better bread and more of 
it than any other floar 



We aliio handle such well known flour us Washburk's Best, 
Crocker's Best, Stobbk's Best, Elegast, Spotless, and others. 
Give OS a call. Onr pricea are as low ai the lowest. 




MILLING CO. 



KENNEDY'S 

SyPERIOR 

BISCUIT 



KENNEDY'S 

NEW 

SOCIETY I 

AND 

SARATOGA CHIPS 



Manufactured by 

TfHe NEW yOTlK BISCUIT SO. 

Gam bridge port. A^aoa. 




^BAKING POWDER 



leat fhem «1 



CHICAGO, 1693. 




THE JUDOE REPORTED ITS 

LFAVENING POWER . . . 15.64 
Nkxt IIighest Only . . . 14.22 

OM.Y Powder ExhlUtid Complitely DIs- 

lOlvlns in IfDt Water WITHOUT 

SEDIMErVT. 



•hil with SUGAR OF MILK POWDER it will always 

much. niscults. Pica, anil Cakt made with It have a 

iose made from staffiil powrfera. .... 

^-OH. D. THATCHER & CO., Potsdam, N. V. 

It won't Beat Eggs 

For Your Dainty Dishes, but our 

V. F. M. BABCOCK 




Does Beat the World 

For ASCERUINING the HONESS of IILK. 



re III Operation, txir the l-acllitr with which the Required 
obtalneil, for Accara>:v anil Simplicity, it It Uaegaaleil. 
' tarns of the crank per minute gives the bottle-hted 1120 
una per minute, a hlnhrr speed than the aelentlata say Is 
y to iihtnln aeeurslc renulta. Write for our Special Book 

• vermont farm machine co.. 

Bellows falls, vt. • ■ 



U. S. Clothes Pin Co. 

The U. S. SPRING 
CLOTHES PINS 

Never Smut, Rust, Break, 

Split, Freeze on, or Blow 

off the Line. 

Will hold the clothes in a blizzard. Those who use them once will i;ise 

no other. Send for samples and price list. Manufactured by 

^THE UNITED STATES CLOTHES PIN CO., 

MO/MTPELIEH, VT., U. S. A. 




Mrs. HELEN F. CARPENTER, 

DECORATVE ART 
NEEDLEWORK. 

Novelties in Honiton Lace Work. 
Ten Cloths, Table Squares. 
Scarfs and Tray Cloths. 

Embroidery Silks. 
Yarns and Germantown Ribbons. 
Plush Balls, Baskets. 

Christmas Novelties. 

Mrs. HELEN F. CARPENTER, 

ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



J. HALLEg &eo. 

Dry Goods and Millinery. 



In Y. M. C. A. Block. 



For- 



NEW MILLINERY, 

DRESS GOODS, 

LADIES' and CHILDREN'S HOSIERY, 

ALL KINDS OF 

INFANTS' WEAR, 
GLOVES AND UNDERWEAR, 

• Qo to 

J. HALLEg* CO., 

y.M. e. A. Block, 

ST. JOHNSBURY. VT. 



^Not Good, Nor Better, But BEST ! 

The Best Goods in 

SILVERWARE, JEWELRY, CUT GLASS, . . . 

.... BLANK BOOKS and STATIONERY 

• • Can be had at • • 

-^ ^ A. D. Rowell Co.'s, 

Cor. nain St. and Eastern Ave., . ST. JOHNSBURY. 



CALL FOR 



01. JUriNODuKr 



. . . CRACKERS. 



A WOriANLY WEAKNESS. 

Woman's Hesire for the pretty things 
in Jewelry h«i8 come to be proverbiaL 
Men have the same leaning, 

but they disguise ^ it. Just the same, 
a man, or a woman either, 

appreciates a gift of a Watch or piece of 
Jewelry. For the best come to our store. 

T. C. SPENCER. 

45 Railroad Street, St. Johnsbury, Vt. 



If You Want 

Any Kind Of 

INSURANCE 

Call on 

^CHAS. 8. HASTINGS, 

, . Over Post Office . . 
ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



F. N. BROWN, 

HOUSE FinmiiNG (joods, 

Crocl[ery, Hardware and (rroceries. 

.... 49 MAIN STREET. 

8 



r 



DON'T SCRATCH 
LIKE A HEN 

.'. .'. .'. With that horrid old pen, but come into 

our store and look the stock o'er All the pens 

that we sell will write easy and well. . ... And if 
paper you need we can suit you, indeed, for the best 

writers dote on our splendid Cream Note It is 

smooth to the pen of both women and men, and, as 
sure as you live, satisfaction will give. .\ .'. .'. .'. 

.*. .*. .*. Most every visitor who looks through our 
unequaled stock of Books will find a volume that will 
please—his reading appetite appease. Our Novels, Trav- 
els, Works of Love, Romances, modern and of yore, our 
Tales of risk by land and sea, and handsome books ot 
Poetry are pretty gifts to make to friends— such gifts as 

pleasure oft attends Our prosy poet asks you 

all to make on us an early call for anything that's in 
our line, for which you may at times incline. .'. .'. 

.'. We are also agents for the Photographic 
Reproductions of Works of Art published by the Soule 
Photograph Company. . . . We keep constantly on 
hand a large line of these goods at their regular prices. 

F. O. CLARK 

BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER 
PYTHIAN BUILDING 
ST. JOHN8BURY, VT. 



Griswold, Pearl & Co., 

FLOUR, GRAIN/FEED, 

KEROSENE OIL, ETC. 



The proof of the Pudding 
is in the eating.** 

O O O O O O O 



If you are pleased with the typographical 
appearance of 

COOKERY CRAFT, 

Remember that it was printed at " The 
Caledonian** office. 

o o o o o o o 

We do all kinds of Job Printing 
in a stylish manner. 



HAVE YOU EVER 
UvSED THE. 



« Twin 






Dress Stay 



THEY WERE ALWAYS GOOD.^^^^ 

THEY ARE BEING MADE BETTER THAN EVER. 
WE HAVE THEM, Covered with Satin, for 25c. Set. 



Lougee B 
3t Smythe. 



Agents for Domestic Patterns 
. . . and Publications. . . . 



r 



Drouin^s Blocks 

Rnilroad Street. 



^ 



1^ 



A Tailor's Goose is C()ol(C(l 



WHEN HIS WORK IS POORLY DONE 

.". .". We aim to Excel in Workmanship and all the 
t| Accessories which go to make up fine garments. Our prices 
a are as low as for inferior work. 

i J. S. MEIGS, 

M ^=C^^ ^^^ '^^^'^^ ^ ^'^ Music Hall. ||^ 

SJKCTHWC Jyr "f MM' mwH tt" mm Mf HiM^ai mm mm mm mm mm mm mm •Mn^'»t^rT'^^» 

W^^ ^W^ »»^ tl^ f^^ tF T^' '^p ^l^^ ^^^ ^F' '^^ '^^^ 'T^^ ^^^ T[^ '^' T^^ ^^^ 'l^' ^^' ^MM 



JO 



E. C. PIERCE & CO. 



• Fash ionable • Millinery • • 

FANCY GOODS, 

RIBBONS, LACES, GLOVES, SILKS. VELVETS, and WORSTEDS. 

^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ST, JOHNSBURY, VT. 



VISIT ■ 

HARRY H. CARR'S DRY GOODS STORE, 

For COTTON, WOOL, and vSILK DRESS GOODS, 
i:XDERWEAR, HOSIERY, GLOVES, HOUSE- 
HOLD GOODS, AND OUTSIDE GARMENTS for 
MISSES AND LADIES. 

75 RAILROAD STREET, 

St. Johnsbury, Vt. 



E.D.STEELE & CO. 

41 MAIN STREET 

ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 

CLOTHIERS, HATTERS & GENTS' FURNISHINGS 

* • TRUNKS * BAGS • • 

Largest Stock and Lowest Prices in Town or County, 

IF YOU ARE IN 

Want oJ a first-class job of Plumbing, Steam, 
or Hot Water Heating, or if you are thinking of 
buying a New Stove, or a First-Class Range, 
call on 

FARNHAM & ALBEE, 

16 PORTLAND vSTREET, 
^::^^::^^^ST. JOHNSBURY. VT. 

11 



E. & T. FAIRBANKS k CO. 



T T T T T 



.*. .'. .*. Special attention' is called 
to our large stock of Carpets, 

Body Brussels, Velvets, Tapestry Brussels, 
All-wool Extra Super Carpets. 

Also the "Agra" Wool Carpet, a new weave, extra 
heavy, supplying the place of the old three-ply, in much 
superior patterns and qualities. Straw Mattings. 
Special prices for Church Carpets. Samples sent and 
estimates given when requested. 
M^ '?;-. _ .*. .*. .*. Our spring stock of 

♦-♦-WALL PAPERS-^-^ 

arrives January 1. Patterns and colorings will be more 
desirable than ever. Prices from 7M»c. a roll up. Lace 
Curtains. Heavy Drapery Curtains. Window Shades 
made to order to fit any size window. 

Full Line of Upholstery Goods. 

.*. .*. .*. Furniture of all kinds re- 
paired. Mattresses made and renovated and Carpets 
laid by a practical upholsterer. 



E. & T. FAIRBANKS & CO. 



T T T T T 



New Dry Goods Store, 

Main- Street, 

wSt. Johnsbury, Vt. 



12 



Merchants' Natl Bank 



ST. JOHNSBURY. Vr. 




• • • • • • 



Capital, $300,000.00. 

YOUR • BUSINESS • SOLICITED. 

L. D. HA ZEN, PresH. 




W. L. PEARL, Vice Pres't. 
H. W. ALLEN, Cashier. 




at 10 not ^anl} 



• . « OF ... 

SAINT JOHNSBURY, VT. 

Capital, $400,000. 

Surplus, $53,500. 



OFFICERS 



FRANKLIN FAIRBANKS, President 

A. H. McLEOD, Vice-President 

HOMER E. SMITH, Cashier. 



DIRECTORS 



A. H. McLeod Chas. H. Stevens 

Franklin Fairbanks Delazan D. Wead 

Walter P. Smith John C. Clark 

Samuel N. Brown. 



Accounts of Corporations, Firms, and Individuals Solicited, 
Ladies^ and Family Accounts are Especially Invited. 

13 



C. F. GIBBS 




Grower of and dealer in FLOWERING and VEGETABLE PLANTS. 
CUT FLOWERS and FLORAL DESIGNS A SPECIALTY. Wed- 
dings, Parties, and Funerals supplied. I arrange flowers in the latest 
and best style to ^o with safety at all seasons. My facilities are such 
that I can furnish flowers to almost any amount on short notice. 
For immediate attention order by telegraph, telephone, or special 
delivery. Send for Price List. N. B. — Please mention this book or 
where you have seen advertisement. 

^ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



Furniture 



FINEST LINE OF ... . 

PARLOR SUITS * 

OAK & ASH CHAMBER SUI 

DINING ROOM FURNITURE 

And UNDERTAKING in all its branches 
to be found in town. 

HALL & STANLEY, 

Music Hall. 




TO * LIGHT 
YOUR * HOME 

IN THE MOST SATISFAC- 
TORY MANNER IIUY THE 
CKLEBRATKD 

"B. & H. 

LAMPS. 



ff 



Made in every style and 

at Prices to suit all 
purses. All Dealers sell 
them. They are made Ity 




BRADLEY & HUBBARD TIFG. CO., 



NEW YORK \ 
BOSTON / 

CHICAGO I 

PHILADELPHIA! 



PACTOKIBH AND OPPICE8: 

MERIDEN, CONN. 

Write for our Little Book. 



14 



W. J. ALDRICH, M. D. 



PHgSieiA/N AMD SURGEO/N, 

OFFICE IN PYTHIAN BLOCK. 

hours: 8 TO 10 a. m.; 2 to 3, and 7 to 9 p. m. 

RESIDENCE AT NO. 7 CHERRY STREET. 

Special Attention given to all kinds of Surgical Work. 



3cis. %. Iltrkina, M. 3D., M. ©. S» 

BANK BI/OCK, 27 MAIN STREET, 
SAINT JOHNSBURY. 



FRANK Q. LANDRY 

DRUOGIST AND PHARiVE ACISX. 
83 RAILROAD ST., ST. JOHNSBURY, VX. 

PURE DRUGS, FANCY and TOILET ABTICLES. 
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 



■^^7". xa:. iv£o-criL.T03^, 

Practical Painter and PaiDerhanger 

Dealer in Wall Paper, Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Btc. 
80 RAILROAD ST., - - ST. JOHSSBURY, Vt. 

BOg/NTO/N & EASTMA/N, 

^> PHARMACISTS •> 

Dealers In Drugs, Chemicals, and Patent Hedicines. 

Druggists' Sundries, Stationery, 

Quns, Ammunition, Fishing Taclcle, Knives, Shears, Razors 

and Window Qlass. 

36 & 38 EASTERN AVE., ST. JOHNSBURY. Vt, 

15 



•; 



\\/l--w Ar^^^^4- You buy your Kitchen FurnishinjL's at CAK- 
W ny UUn l PUNTER'S, Pythian Buildin)?, 89 Eastern 

Avenue, St. Johnshury, Vt.? A lull line of 

Aji^ate Ware, Tinware, Wooden ware, and Hardware of all kin'ls. 

Remember, my Repair Shop is always open and ready to do all your 

repairing;. If you want your house heated or plumbed we 

can do it and do it well. A full line of Boy n ton Furnaces O O 

and Heaters always on hand • • 



*^* The ^^ 

^ Blodgett ^^ 

Insurance Agency 



St. Johnsbury. 



A WORD TO COOKS. 

Tell your butcher to send his hides find tallow to 
me. If by doing this you influence a new customer to 
deal with me I will send you $5 if the business aggre- 
gates $100 for a year, or a proi)r)rtionate sum if less. 

The Publishers of this book know me and will as- 
sv»re you that my offer will be kept in good faith and 
that you can conscientiously commend me as at least 
having the reputation of being the largest dealer in 
my line in the United States. 

CARKOI^L S. PAOB, 
Oct. 16, 1894. Hyde Park, Vermont. 




F 



AC. ^ 



Pure 
Groceries 



¥F THERE is one thing that the people of this 

generation want, it is pure food products. 

We have the largej^t stock of groceries in the 
State, and thev are the best that monev can 
buv. 

We have established a reputation for honest 
dealing, anrl this reputation is as widely known 
as our name. 

Having the largest and best equipped gro- 
cery store in Vermont, we can suit our cus- 
tomers on whatever they may want in our line, 
whether it be butter, poultry, apples, pork, flour, 
or the general staple line of groceries. 

Let us have your trade and wc will prove to 
you that we can please you. 

E. & T. FAIRBANKS & CO. 



T T T T T 




17 



\ 






\ 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS. 





Paob 


F. G. Bundy, 


1 


A. L. Bfiiley, 


1 


Standard Drug Store, 


1 


Dr. J. M. Allen, . 


2 


Dr. E. H. Ross, 


2 


Miss Shaw, . 


2 


Pass. Savings Bank, . 


2 


La pier's Agency, . 


2 


A. B. Noyes & Co., . 


3 


Wilson & King, . 


3 


Citizens Savings Bank, 


3 


William Daniels, . 


4 


L. F. Gaskill, 


4 


C. C. Bingham, . 


4 


J. C. Gray, . 


4 


New York Biscuit Co., 


5 


A. H.McLeod Milling Co., 


5 


Vt. Farm Mach. Co., 


6 


H. D. Thatcher & Co., 


6 


U. S. Clothes Pin, 


7 


J. Halley & Co., . 


7 


A. D. Rowell, 


7 


Mrs. Helen F. Carpenter, 


7 


F. N. Brown, 


8 


C. S. Hastings, 


8 


T. C. Spencer, 


8 





Page 


Geo. H. Ooss, 


. 8 


F..0. Clark, . 


. 9 


Caledonian, . 


. 9 


Griswold, Pearl & Co., 


9 


Lougee Bros. & Smythe, 


. 10 


0. S. Abbott, 


. 10 


J. S. Meigs, . 


. 10 


Farnham 8z. Albee, 


. 11 


E. C. Pierced Co., 


. 11 


H. H. Carr, . 


. 11 


E. D. Steele ^ Co., 


. 11 


E.& T. Fairbanks^Cc, 


. 12 


Merchants Bank, 


. 13 


First Nat'l Bank. 


. 13 


Bradlev & Hubbard, . 


. 14 


Hall 8r Stanley, . 


. 14 


C. F. Gibbs, . 


. 14 


Frank Landry, 


. 15 


Boynton& Eastman, . 


. 15 


W. H. Moulton, . 


. 15 


Dr. W.J. Aldrich, 


. 15 


Dr. Perkins, . 


. 15 


C. P. Carpenter, . 


. 16 


C. S. Page, . 


. 16 


P..D. Blodgett&Co . 


. 16 


Fairbanks Grocery, 


. 17 



>. 1 



I 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




% 



641.6195 
V527S 



I 




The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 




Gift of Sophie Ctoe 




\j;' 



\'\ 



9.0 



V OOKKKY 



.\b 



Ck/n If 



■j-i Dl 



v: ," 



:t. Ji;iir;^.;:^-'V. 






> the . 

/ // -I/;. 

<>■ vow >i 



< :t i 

./ '. /, 



■J O O 






C *tt ^^oni^ Ik 4F.oiti}jn«M.t. 

•- ' .. .,Ii \Sni'"Y, \ T 

I • •• t . 



■••. '■■'■■■ -. ■:' .'^. 



COOKBRY 



~> 




As Practiced in 1894 by the Women of the 
South Church, St. Johnsbury, Vt. 



EDITED BY 

MRS. C. H, MERRILL. 



ooo 

* JT is the concretion of a good deal of thought, emotion, and toil 

of brain and band," said Kenyon "/ kindled a great 

Gre within my mind, and threw in the material — as Aaron threw 
the gold into the furnace — and in the midmost heat up rose this, 
as you see it," —Marble Faun. 

OOO 



PRESS OP 

d* an* SfOttft Si Cotnpang, 

ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 
1894. 



64 I . <^ ^'1? 



" * Not that a new book is wanted,' said The 
Disasrreeahle Man ; ' there are too many as it is, 
and not people enough to dust them.* " 

— Ships That Pass in the Night. 

" Some things being always in use get no dust 

nor spider webs,*' observed The Agreeable Woman. 

— Houses That Have Good Things. 



''In ever new elaboration and addition this 
is the combined work of nil thinkers — how changed 
from shape to shape by each thinker's contribution, 
till it got to full fiiral shape, no man will now 
ever know." 

— CARLYI.E. 



PREFACE. 



The compilers of this little volume having been thoroughly 
indoctrinated in the inspiration of the Scriptures do not doubt 
the wisdom of Solomon who has told us that " there is no new 
thing under the sun." But we are all wilHng to concede that 
some things are less old than other things. We believe that 
the concocting of an appetizing dish has been dear to the heart 
of woman and the stomach of man since the time when Adam 
so unhesitatingly partook of the something new offered him by 
our mother Eve. Familiar objects often gain a new interest in 
our eyes by a mere re-adjustment of position ; and the deft- 
handed cook will, with the same ingredients differently pro- 
portioned, tickle our palates with that variety which is the 
very spice of life. 

And so, although gastronomic science can by no means be 
considered to be in its infancy, it may yet be believed to be 
lingering in the region of middle life, and while anything per- 
taining to an increase of comfort in our daily living is of al- 
most universal interest, we feel that we may hazard our very 
modest venture without an accompanying apology. 

As we turn the subsequent pages and look at the familiar 
names we shall undoubtedly be reminded of many pleasant 
hours when we have enjoyed each other's hospitality ; perhaps 



more particularly of the times when we have enlarged our 
borders and spread our feast under the friendl}^ roof of the 
old South Church and given a true and heart}' welcome to the 
friends who gathered around our hearthstone. 

We have endeavored, in our recipes, to give something that 
shall be of interest to each one who shall turn to these pages, 
hoping for a little new light on an old subject. An exchange 
of ideas will surely please our elder housekeepers and if, to 
them, some minute directions may seem needless, perhaps they 
will kindly think of our younger cooks who may come to our 
pages for real instruction ; and also look back to the time 
when they themselves would have been but little benefitted by 
the old-time problematic recipe: 

"Sn<ie and bread, mix just enouirh 
Salt and pepper quantum suff.'^ 

And if any perplexed housekeeper shall gain from Cookery 
Craft any new inspiration or fresh courage that shall assist her 
in providing a tempting menu for those whom she delights to 
serve, the aim of this little book will have been realized, as to 
share our good things with our friends, and lend a helping hand 
to each other has ever been the motto of the 

Ladies of the South Church. 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Preface, - - - - - - - 5 

Bread, Breakfast and Tea Cakes, - - .9 

Sandwiches, .------ 24 

Doughnuts and Fried Cakes, - - - - 27 

Eggs, ....---- 31 

Salads, ---_...- 35 

Soups, -------- 41 

Fish and Oysters, ..--_. 45 

Meats, -------- 54 

Poultry and Game, ------ 60 

Entrees, .---... 66 

Vegetables, --...-. 77 

Pies and Pastry, ------ 86 

Puddings and Sauces, - - - - - - 93 

Creams, Sherbets, Fancy Dishes, - - - 106 

Cookies and Small Cakes, ----- 112 

Cake, -------- 120 

Icings and Confectionery, ----- 137 

Drinks, Hot and Cold, ----- 147 

Jellies, -------- 151 

Preserving and Canning, _ _ . - 156 

Pickles, Sweet and Sour, . . . - _ 163 

For the Sick, ------ 170 

Timely Suggestions, - - - - - - 177 

Cookery Craft, Miscellaneously Considered, - 187 



1 -T *#:-♦« ^oar.v Soc-irty of the 

--i:n2 CcM^KEBY Cbaft." wish 

'!-< %£:** Maetha E- Ross for 

. . . .-. P''.-e«v>r S. H. Bkackett for 

■r^ J'lnr.fa. and Mrs. C. E. Ptjt- 

- j£: % kai» T. Faikbanks for thcir 

T.^^ti-it *e?cction<> of quotntions. 



Bread, Breakfast and Tea Cakes. 



MRS. HENRY G. ELY. 




HOP YEAST. 

** My nature is subdued to what it works in.'* 

—Shakespeare (Sonnet.) 

3 potatoes. 1 tablespoonful salt. 
8 or 10 hops. % cup sugar. 

1 quart boiling water. 

Put hops and salt into a bowl and pour over them the boil- 
ing water. Peel and grate the potatoes, strain the liquid over 
them and add sugar. Set on the stove a few minutes to thicken. 
When milk warm stir in 1 coffee cup of good yeast, cover 
and put in a warm place to rise. Mrs. Abijah Smith. 

HOP YEAST No. 2. 

4 medium sized potatoes. % cup sugar. 
V2 cup flour. 1 quart water. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 1 cup home-made yeast or % 

1 tablespoonful hops. yeast cake in 1 cup water. 

Peel the potatoes and let them stand in cold water one hour. 

Boil, then drain and mash them fine and sift in the salt, sugar 



f|^HE Woman's Home Missionary Society of the 
South Church, issuing "Cookery Craft," wish 
specially to thank Miss Martha E. Ross for 
her illustrations, Professor S. H. Brackett for 
his picture of the Church, and Mrs. C. E. Put- 
ney and Dr. Edward T. Fairbanks for their 
careful and efficient selections of quotations. 



Bread, Breakfast and Tea Cakes. 



MRS. HENRY G. ELY. 




HOP YEAST. 

** My nature is subdued to what it works in." 

—Shakespeare (Sonnet.) 

3 potatoes. 1 tablespoonful salt. 
8 or 10 hops. % cup sugar. 

1 quart boiling water. 

Put hops and salt into a bowl and pour over them theboil- 
ing water. Peel and grate the potatoes, strain the liquid over 
them and add sugar. Set on the stove a few minutes to thicken. 
When milk warm stir in 1 coffee cup of good yeast, cover 
and put in a warm place to rise. Mrs. Abijah Smith. 

HOP YEAST No. 2. 

4 medium sized potatoes. V2 cup sugar. 
V2 cup flour. 1 quart water. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 1 cup home-made yeast or % 

1 tablespoonful hops. yeast cake in 1 cup water. 

Peel the potatoes and let them stand in cold water one hour. 

Boil, then drain and mash them fine and sift in the salt, sugar 

2 



10 COOKERY CRAFT. 



and flour. Mix all together thoroughly. Put the hops into a 
saucepan with a quart of cold water, set on stove and bring to 
a boil and strain the liquid while boiling hot upon the potatoes, 
mixing well until smooth. Leave it to cool and then add yeast. 
Cover closely and let rise until next day. 

WHITE BREAD No. 1. 

"Truth crushed to earth shall rise again. ^'—Bryant. 

'* But a batch o' bread that hain't riz once, ain't goin' 
to rise ag'in 
An' it's just money throw'd away to put the emptins 
in." —James Russell Lowell. 

1 quart milk. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

% cup lard. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

V4, cup butter. ^ cake yeast dissolved in a lit- 

tle water. 
Mix all this together, sift in one quart of Pillsbury*s flour, 
stir well and let stand over night. In the morning add V2 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a little hot water and flour enough 
to make a thick batter. Let it rise again and then chop it, 
the longer the better. Knead well with as little flour as pos- 
sible ; make into loaves. Let it rise a little and bake in a slow 
oven. Mrs. A. H. McLeod. 

WHITE BREAD No. 2. 

1 quart new milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 cakes compressed yeast. 1 tablespoonful sugar. . 

Scald the milk in the morning and let it stand until 
lukewarm. Dissolve the yeast in ^ cup warm water and 
stir into the milk, sugar and salt. Add the flour (Washburn's 
Gold Medal) gradually, beating well all the time. When you 
have beaten in sufl&cient flour, take it upon the bread board 
and knead until it is smooth and elastic. Return to the bowl, 
cover and place it in the cool oven to rise. When it has 
doubled its si/^e, take it upon the board again, shape it into 
loaves, return to the cool oven to rise again. When sufiiciently 



BREAD. . 11 



raised, bake in as hot an oven as you can without burning, 
from one-half to three-quarters of an hour according to size of 
loaf. 

Mrs. Geo. M. Howe. 

Married, at Black Lake, L. I., February 7, 1828, 
James Anderson to Miss Ann Bread. 

'* He'll be contented with Ann Bread, 
And won't have an3'' but -her. " 

WHITE BREAD No. 3. 

1 quart milk. 1 scant teaspoonful salt. 

% cake compressed yeast. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

^ cup butter and lard mixed. 

Warm the milk in cold weather, add the melted shorten- 
ing. Dissolve yeast in a little warm water and add with salt 
and sugar. Use good bread flour and stir in gradually all 
that can be mixed in with spoon, the stiffer the dough the 
better. Let stand in warm place over night. In the morning 
stir down and let rise again. When very light take out 
enough for a loaf upon board, knead and chop with chopping 
knife perhaps ten minutes, using as little flour as possible, 
cut in halves and mold each little loaf a minute or'two longer. 
Place these two loaves in one tin with a little melted butter 
rubbed between, proceed in the same way with remainder of 
dough. This quantity should make three small loaves. 
When well risen bake one hour in an oven quite hot at first. 

A suggestion coming from a number of sources has been 
acted upon and found to be valuable, viz., the use of the knife, 
entirely, instead of spoon, in stirring or cutting in the flour at 
night and cutting down in morning, also cutting and chop- 
ping the dough on the board, using the hands only to place 
the dough in tins. This insures fine-grained and moist bread. 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER BREAD. 

1 quart flour. A pinch of salt. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. New milk . 



12 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Sift the baking powder into the flour, add salt and enough 
milk to mould lightly. Bake in hot oven. Very nice made in 
the same way with Franklin flour with the addition of two 
tablespoonfuls sugar. Mrs. Wm. Matthews. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

2 cups graham flour. ^ cup cream. 

2 cups sour milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

% cup dark molasses. Scant teaspoonful soda. 

Makes a brick loaf tin 9 in. by 4 by 3. Oven should be 
hot at first, kept moderate so that the bread can bake slowly 
for at least an hour. Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 

RAISED GRAHAM BREAD. 

1 pint new milk. V^ cup molasses. 

1 pint flour (scant). 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 pint graham (sifted). 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

V2 cake yeast, dissolved in V2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup warm milk. % teaspoonful soda. 

Stir together at night the milk, flour, graham and yeast. 
Let stand in warm place to rise. In the morning add the mo- 
lasses, sugar, butter, salt, and soda dissolved in a little hot 
water. Add enough more sifted graham meal to make a thick 
batter. Pour into one large or two small tins and bake one 
hour. . Caroline D. Ely. 

Delicious bread can be made from this rule by adding in 
the morning equal parts of rye and graham, stirring a little 
stiffer than when using the graham alone. 

BROWN BREAD. 

1 cup sour milk. 1 teaspoonful soda in 

1 cup molasses. V2 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoonful melted lard. Equal parts of rye and Indian 

A pinch of salt. meal. 

Make a little thicker than griddle cakes. Steam four 
hours. Set in moderate oven ten minutes. 

Mrs. W. D. Flint. 



BREAD. 13 



BROWN BREAD No. 2. 

2 cups sour milk. % cup of molasses. 

1 cup Indian meal. 1 full teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups rye meal. A pinch of salt. 

Steam at least three hours. 

Mrs. Z. a. Richardson. 

RAISED BROWN BREAD. 

2 cups Indian meal. 1 even teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup graham meal. 1 even teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup rye meal. 2V2 cups lukewarm milk. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup hop yeast or V^ yeast cake 

1 tablespoonful flour. in one cup of milk. 

Sift the rye and graham, sift the salt with Indian meal, 
add the soda and the flour, first sifting the soda twice with the 
flour. Mix all together, then stir in the molasses. Add the 
milk gradually. Last of all add yeast and stir thoroughly 
five or six minutes. Do not have the water in steamer boiling 
until the bread has been in twenty-five minutes, but lukewarm, 
then boil hard for four hours and a half Grease the tin well, 
also cover. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

** I leave you thebrt-ad: Eight thousand loaves: 
You can do what you please with it." — Cyrus Hamlin. 

RAI5ED BISCUIT. 

1 pint sweet milk. Va cup butter. 

1 cup yeast. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix thoroughly and stir in flour enough to make a stiff" 
batter and let rise over night. In the morning mold and put 
in bowl to rise again. Dip the closed hand in flour and plunge 
in dough to the bottom of bowl ; when this is risen even over 
the top mold again. Cut off* pieces of proper size and mold 
into biscuit, place close together in tin and bake quickly. 

Buns can be made same as biscuit by adding 1 cup sugar 
and H cup currants at night. Just before putting into the 



74 COOKERY CRAFT. 



oven, brush over with water, and when taken out of oven, with 
sweetened milk. Mrs. L. C. Harlow. 

The ^reat struggle of life is first for bread; then 
butter on the bread ; and last sugar on the butter. 
— Good Housekeeping. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

1 pint milk. 1 small cup yeast or Vz yeast cake. 

Flour to make a stiff batter. Let rise over night. In the 
morning add 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful butter and flour to make 
it stiff enough to knead. Let it rise, then knead again to 
make it fine and white. Roll out, cut with round cutter, brush 
with milk and fold over; put them in a pan and cover very 
close. Set in a warm place until they are very light; bake 
quickly and you will have delicious rolls. 

S. A. Mather. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

2 quarts flour. 2 tablespoonfuls lard. 
1 pint milk. - 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
^ cup yeast. 

Rut) the lard into the flour, then put in all the other ingred- 
ients and do not stir. Let stand until morning; mix and 
knead, then stand until noon, mix and knead again and cut 
into shape and stand in tins until tea time. Bake in a hot 
oven. Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 

RAISED WHITE ROLLS. 

1 pint new milk. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

V2 cake compressed yeast. V2 cup butter and lard mixed. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. 

When wanted for tea, start in the morning, dissolving 
yeast in a little warm wat^r, melting butter and lard and add- 
ing, with sugar and salt, to the milk, which should be warmed 
in cold weather. Stir in as much flour as can be well mixed in 
with spoon and set in a waifni place to rise. When light, take 
out upon board and m6ld and chop with chopping knife at 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 15 

least ten minutes, then replace in Dowl to rise again. When 
light, repeat this process of molding and chopping; cut oft' 
pieces of the dough the size of a large egg and mold under the 
hand into a long narrow roll and lay in dripping pan. Have 
• a dish of melted butter and lard,i equal parts, into which^di^; 
each roll on the side next to its neighbor. Use care to fill the 
pan just full. Brush over the top with melted butter. I-ct 
rise until very Hght and bake in hot oven. These rolls are 
equally good when taken from bread dough in the morning 
(n\ade according to rule No. 3), adding H cup of butter and 
lard mixed. Warm the shortening a little and chop and mold 
it into dough. Mrs. Henry G. Ely. 

CREAM TARTAR BISCUIT. 

1 quart flour. V2 cup butter, or butter and 

4 heaping teaspoonfuls Royal lard. ' 
baking powder. A. scant teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. ' 1 scant pint of sweet milk. 

Sift baking powder through flour, rub in the shortening 
with sugar and salt. Mix with the milk as soft as can be 
handled, roll out and cut with biscuit cutter, lay close 
together in dripping pan and bake in a very hot oven about 
twenty minutes. 

EQQ BISCUIT. / 

Make the dough as for cream tartar biscuit ^only richer, 
and the last thing add the whites of ^ or 3 eggs beaten stiff. 
Light as feathers. S. A. Mather. 

MUFFINS No. 1. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 cups flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 cup milk. or 1 of soda and 2 of cream 

1 egg. ^ of tartar. 

Beat butter and sugar tjogether^ add the beaten egg and 
beat again, then milk, thqp flour. Fut in baking powder the 



16 COOKERY CRAFT. 



last thing and give a good beating. Bake in muffin rings or 
gem pans, in a quick oven, about twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Charles H. Merrill. 

MUFFINS No. 2. 

1 quart flour. % cup yeast or Vi yeast cake in 
V4, cup butter. ^ cup water. 

V4: cup sugar. 1 pint sweet milk. 

1 tgg. A pinch of salt. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add ^g^g well beaten. 
To the quart of flour add the salt and yeast, then the sugar, 
butter, and ^gg with milk. Let it rise over night. In the 
morning stir down, fill the muffin tins half full, let rise until light 
and bake in rather quick oven. If wanted for tea set to rise in 
the morning. Mrs. Grace Knight Robertson. 

MUFFINS No. 3. 

2 eggs. 2 cups flour. 

4 tal)lespoonfuls sugar. 2 even teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cup sweet milk. powder. 

Mrs. J. H. Hastings. 

RAISED RICE MUFFINS. 

3 pints of flour. 2 eggs. 

1 pint warm milk. 1 even cupful of boiled rice. 

2 large tablespoonfuls butter. %cup yeast or ^ yeast cake 
1 tablespoonful white sugar. dissolved in % of a cup of milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar, stir in the well-beaten eggs, 
add 1 pint of flour, then the milk and the remainder of flour. 
Add the rice and yeast mixed well together. Leave to rise 
over night. In the morning put into well buttered muffin 
tins, let them rise an hour in a warm place. Bake in quick 
oven half an hour. From New England Cook Book. 

SCONES. 

One quart prepared flour, with butter size of tgg well 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES, 17 

worked in ; 1 beaten ^gg in milk enough to make firm dough ; 
salt and sugar to suit. Dividein two parts, each rolled out to 
size of tin ; cut across to make four quarters, bake in quick 
oven. 

BROWN SCONES. 

White and graham flour, 1 pint each, 2 heaping teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. Other parts as above. 

Mrs. Emma C. Fairbanks. 

COLUMBIAN COFFEE COILS. 

3 cups sweet milk. V2 cup butter, melted. 

1 cup yeast. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 cup sugar. 

Stir up at night and set in warm place. In the morning 
stir and let rise again. Knead well, roll into long, narrow 
rolls, butter on inside of roll and coil up. Put into round tin, 
let it rise. When ready for the oven, brush over with sweet 
milk and sift frosting sugar over all. 

Cornelia T. Fairbanks. 

GRAHAM OEMS No. 1. 

1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup graham meal. 

1 egg. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 tablespoonful butter. A little salt. 

1 cup flour. 

Mrs. Harvlin Paddock. 

GRAHAM GEMS No. 2. 

V2 cup sweet cream. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup sugar. V2 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Mix the soda and cream tartar with graham enough to 
make a thin batter; have gem pans hot and bake in a quick 
oven. Mrs. A. H. McLeod, 



18 COOKERY CRAFT. 



GRAHAM QEM5 No. 3. 

IM cups graham flour. 1 tablespoonful brown sugar. 

1^ cups wheat flour. 1 even teaspoonful salt. 

1 even teaspoonful soda. 2 cups sour milk. 

1 scant teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Sift graham, having full measure, with the sugar and salt. 
Sift wheat flour with cream tartar, then mix together, and stir 
in sour milk. Stir well together. Have gem pans on top of 
stove hot and ver3' well buttered; fill full and bake in hot oven. 
A teaspoonful or more sour cream or butter, taking the place 
of some of the milk, is considered by some an improvement. 

PEELED WHEAT FLOUR. 

Text — The finest ol the wheat. 
Revised version — Peeled Wheat flour. 
Exposition — Delicate, nutritious. 
Argument— To live well is the duty of man. 
Application — Fit the text to every day life. 
Inference— Extraordinary satisfactitjii. 
Remark — This is not an advertisement. 
Conclusion — Great is good livinij. — [E. T. F. 

PEELED WHEAT GEMS No. 1. 

1 pint peeled wheat flour. 1 cup sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. V2 cup sweet cream. 

Have gem pans hot and well buttered and bake in quick 
oven. ' Josephine. 

PEELED WHEAT OEMS No. 2. 

1 large cup sour milk. 1 tablespoonful molasses. 

1 Qgg. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

2 scant cups flour. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Beat the egg very light. Add sugar, molasses and butter 
and beat again. Dissolve soda in a little warm water and add 
with the flour. Have gem pans hot and fill nearly full and 
bake in hot oven. 

Arlington wheat gems made by same rule, stirring a 
a trifle stifl*er with Arlington wheat meal ; very nice. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 19 



GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

2 cups graham flour sifted. 3 small teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cup white flour sifted. powder. 

2 tablespoonfuls shortening. 1 small teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Sift baking powder into flour, rub shortening into flour, 
add sugar and salt, lastly the milk, roll out with as little 
handling as may be into thin sheets cut with biscuit cutter. 
Bake directly in hot oven. Sheepcote. 

FRANKLIN FLOUR OEMS. 

Vz cup sour cream. 2 large spoonfuls sugar. 

Vz cup sour milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

A very little salt and enough Franklin flour to drop from 
spoon in small cakes. Bake in quick oven — very nice. • 

Mrs. Wm. Matthews. 

RYE ROLLS. 

1 ^gg. IM cup sour milk. 

1 cup flour. Vi cup sugar. 

1 cup rye meal. 1 teaspoonful soda, a little salt. 

Mrs. F. a. Tifft. 

CORN CAKE No. I. 

2 cups com meal. 1 egg. 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

1 cup sw^eet milk. 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

V2 cup sugar. Vz teaspoonful salt. 

Mrs. G. E. Goodall. 

CORN CAKE No. 2. 

1 cup milk. V2 cup sugar. 

1 cup flour. 1 tgg. 

1 cup meal (scant). 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Butter one-half the size of an egg, a little salt. Beat sugar, 
butter and egg thoroughly together. 

Mrs. 0. E. Nettleton, 



20 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CORN CAKE No. 3. 

V2 cup brown sugar. 1 cup flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups milk. 2 cups cream of tartar. 

2 cups corn meal. 2 eggs. 



A pinch of salt. 



Maude E. McLeod. 



BREAKFAST CAKE. 

2 cups flour. 1 dessertspoonful butter. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

1 cup milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup Indian meal. Scant teaspoonful salt. 

1 egg- 

May be baked in shallow tins or gem pans. 

Mabel F. Fairbanks. 

SPIDER CAKE. 

1% cup granulated corn meal. 1 cup sour milk. 

V3 cup wheat flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs well beaten. 1 teaspoonful soda (scant). 
2 cups sweet milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Mix together the meal, flour, salt, soda and butter. 
Add the eggs, then 1 cup of sweet milk, and the sour milk. 
Butter a spider with a piece of butter the size of an ^gg. Pour 
in the mixture and add, without stirring, the second cup of 
sweet milk and bake. Luella Merrill. 

CORNMEAL GEMS. 

1 tablespoonful white sugar. IV^ cups Indian meal. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1^ cups flour. 

2 eggs. % teaspoonful salt. 

3 teaspoonfuls of baking 2 cups milk, 
powder. 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add eggs thoroughly 
beaten, sift in the flour with baking powder, stir in part of 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES, 21 

the milk, then sift in the meal and salt and add the remainder 
of the milk, stirring all well together. Have the gem pan well 
buttered and very hot on top of stove. Fill nearly full and 
bake in hot oven. 

PAN DOODLE5. 

Make a dough as for bread, letting it stand over night. 
In the morning take pieces the size of walnuts and fry in boil- 
ing lard until light brown. Serve in a hot dish and eat with 
butter and syrup. F. M. Simpson. 

POP-OVERS. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful butter. 

2 cups flour. A pinch of salt. 

2 cups milk. 

Beat well and bake in moderate oven three-fourths of an 
hour. 

WAFFLES. 

1 pint milk. % teaspoonful soda. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Flour enough to make a little thicker than griddle cakes. 
Heat waffle iron and cook quickly. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Kyburg. 

BUCKWHEAT QRIDDLE CAKES. 

1 pint buckwheat. % teaspoonful salt, 

^tablespoonful brown sugar. V& cake yeast in l^ cup water. 
1 pint warm water. 

Stir well, cover closely and let rise over night. ¥vy in the 
morning, having the griddle hot and well greased with butter. 

WHEAT QRIDDLE CAKES No. 1. 

1 pint sweet milk. Pinch of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls thick cream. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
1 Qg^. V2 teaspoonful soda. 



22 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Mix soda and cream tartar with flour enough to make a 
thin batter. Have the griddle hot and fry quickly with 
butter. Mrs. A. H. McLeod. 

WHEAT QRIDDLE CAKES No. 2. 

1% cups flour. 1 egg. 

V2 teaspoonfiil salt. IV^ cups milk. 

y2 teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspootiful melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

WHEAT QRIDDLE CAKES No. 3. 

1^ cups sour milk. 1 egg. 

1^ cups flour. % teaspoonful soda. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. V2 teaspoonful cream tartar 

(scant). 
A great variety of griddle cakes can be made with these 
batters by using corn, graham, or other meals. 

WHEAT QRIDDLE CAKES No. 4. 

1 pint sour milk. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 pint flour. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs. 

Mix flour and sour milk together at night. In the morn- 
ing add the eggs well beaten, with the salt and soda dissolved 
.in a little hot water. S. E. R. 

A suggestion comes that the addition of the white of an 
egg, beaten stiff*, to any griddle cake batter, just before frying 
is a great improvement. The batter should be a trifle richer 
than when made without the egg. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

1 pint flour. V2 cup butter. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of A little salt, 
baking powder. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Sift baking powder through flour, rub in the butter, stir in 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 23 

enough sweet milk (about V2 pint) to mix in the flour. Take 
out upon board, divide in halves, roll out round about one-half 
inch thick, lay in round tin, spread thinly with melted butter and 
lay the second one on top and bake in hot oven about twenty 
minutes. Separate when done, spread both well with butter 
and heap on the berries, which have been mashed with plenty 
of sugar, on one, and lay the other on top and serve immedi- 
ately. 



SANDWICHES. 



MISS ISABEL PADDOCK. 




HAM DRESSING FOR SANDWICHES. 

For a pint of vinegar take yolks of 6 eggs thoroughly 
beaten, 1 dessertspoonful mustard (or 2, if one likes it 
strong,) and a little pepper. Stir all together and set over fire. 
Boil till it thickens. The ham should be chopped ver}' fine, 
leaving in, if you choose, a little of the fat, as no oil or butter 
is used in the dressing. Let it be cold before using. 

Mrs. French. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

One box sardines drained and boned. Rub to a paste. 
Yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs, mashed smooth and seasoned 
with % teaspoonful salt, a bit of pepper, and 2 teaspoonfuls 
lemon juice. Add sardines and mix thoroughly. Spread on thin 
slices of bread and cut in inch-wide strips. 



SANDWICHES. 25 



5ALAD SANDWICHES. 

Chop lobster or chicken very fine and mix with ma3'on- 
naise dressing. Place a portion between two fresh lettuce 
leaves, and again between two slices of bread. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Spread slices of soft bread with butter. Cut each in two 
and between the halves put crisp leaves of lettuce, allowing the 
leaves to show beyond the edges of the bread. These must be 
served immediately while lettuce is crisp. Many like a little 
dressing on the lettuce, either of sugar and vinegar or a regular 
salad dressing. L. B. M. 

" With two seeming bodies but one heart. " 

— Midsummer Night's Dream, 

FILLING FOR SANDWICHES. 

Chop cold boiled chicken very fine, (ham or tongue may 
be used instead,) and to every 4 teacupfuls add 1 tea spoonful salt 
and V& teaspoonful pepper. Mash yolks of 5 hard boiled 
eggs, add 2 tablespoon fuls melted butter, beating well, and grad- 
ually beat in V2 cup cream or ♦nilk. When smooth, stir in the 
chopped meat. 

ROLL SANDWICHES. 

Finger rolls split open lengthwise, hollowed out, and filled 
with the preceding mixture, may be placed together and tied 
with narrow ribbon. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

White or brown bread cut very thin and buttered, or 
toasted crackers, may be sprinkled with grated cheese before 
placing together. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES. 

Strawberries cut in thin slices and sprinkled with powdered 
sugar are placed between thin slices of bread and butter, or 
fruit jam may be used. Salted crackers spread with orange 
marmalade are also delicious. 



26 COOKERY CRAFT, 



EGO SANDWICHES. 

Already given under eggs. 

Finely minced meat should be used as a filling for sand- 
wiches, rather than that cut in clumsy slices. The bread 
should be buttered on the loaf somewhat scantily, and then 
sliced with a sharp knife, the crusts being trimmed off. For 
picnics, wrap separately in paraffine paper. For teas, cut in 
triangles, fancy shapes, or finger lengths, and serve on a 
napkin. Very soft, spongy bread may be cut thin, rolled, and 
tied with ribbon. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

See "Original Letters of Edward Montague, First Lord Sand- 
wich, wherein diverse matters between the crowns of England and 
Spain from 1603 to 1678 are set in a clear lift^ht.'* Also, Original 
Layers of Ham set in divers position between Territorial Limits by 
John Montague, Fourth Earl of Sandwich, about 1746. 



Doughnuts and Fried Cakes, 



(i. e., Rings and Things.) 
MRS. H. C. BOND. 




RAI5ED DOUGHNUTS No. 1. 

" Here already there lurk suggestions of a waiting 
for something to turn up. " — Lit. Digest. 

1 pint milk. 1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of melted but- 1 whole yeast cake. 

ter. Flour. 

A little salt. 

Scald the milk, then cool until it is lukewarm and sponge 
with flour enough for a thick batter. Mold once in the morning, 
then let rise again. When raised, turn out on the board and 
pat down, cut in squares and fry. Mrs. Frank Paine. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS No. 2. 

1 quart flour. ^ of a yeast cake. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls lard. Sweet milk enough to knead. 

Put all together and mold. Let rise over night. In the 



28 COOKERY CRAFT. 



morning mold again and let rise till ver^' light; then very care- 
fully turn out on the molding board and roll out about one inch 
thick and twist. I think them nicer to let stand about fifteen 
minutes before putting into fry. Have the lard very hot and 
never turn them over but once and not then till they are nearly 
done. Mrs. E. X. Stevens. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS No. 3. 

To 1 quart of sponge add 2 well-beaten eggs, % cup 
of sugar and 1 generous teaspoonful of butter. Chop all 
thoroughly together and work until light and smooth, adding 
as little flour as possible. Cut into cakes the size of a walnut 
and place them some distance apart on a baking sheet so they 
will not touch in rising. Cover well with a soft cloth and let 
them rise till very light. When ready slip a knife under them, 
lift very carefully into the boiling fat and fry quickly. Drain 
them in a wire basket or on a cloth. This rule makes about 
three dozen cakes. Mrs. Albert Paddock. 

PLAIN DOUGHNUTS. 

1 e^g. 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 cups thick sour milk. 4 tablespoonfuls cottolene. 

1 teaspoonful soda. Flour enough to mold lightly 

1 teaspoonful salt. and roll out. 

Do not melt the cottolene, but cream the sugar and cotto- 
lene together, beat in the ^g^^ add the milk with the soda dis- 
solved in it, then the flour. Let rise ten minutes before frying. 

Mrs. W. a. Graham. 

DOUGHNUTS No. I. 

2 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

Vz teaspoonful salt. % cup thick sour cream. 

% teaspoonful soda. V2 cup sour milk. 

Flour to roll. M. 

"Who knows to what unnamable subtleties of law 
all these owe their shape. ''—The Hero as Divinity. 



DOUGHNUTS AND FRIED CAKES. 29 

DOUGHNUTS No. 2. 

2 cups sour milk. V^ cup cream. 

1 cup sugar. 1 Qg^. 

1 rounding teaspoonful soda. Salt. 

Flour to roll. Mrs. James Moore. 

DOUGHNUTS NO. 3. 

1 pint sweet milk. 1 cup sugar. 
4 eggs. V2 cup butter. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls cream 6 cups flour. 

tartar. A little nutmeg and salt. 

1 teaspocmful soda. 

Drop from spoon into liot lard and fry quickly. 

Mrs. Alvord. 

CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sour milk. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

% cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 ^g^. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

E. M. Emerson. 

JOLLY BOYS. 

Sift thoroughly 2^ tablespoonfuls of yellow corn meal, 2 
heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 
saltspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Beat 1 egg 
and add to the dry mixture with enough milk to make a drop 
batter, stir in quickly V2 teaspoonful melted butter, beat well 
and drop by spoonfuls into smoking hot lard. Mrs. N. M. 

CRULLERS NO. 1. 

3 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 4 tablespoonfuls sweet milk. 

Little soda and cinnamon. Flour to make it stiff. 

Mix hard, roll thin, fry in hot lard. Mrs. N. M. 

crullers NO. 2. 

3 eggs. 3 large tablespoonfuls sugar. 

A little soda and salt. 



30 COOKERY CRAFT, 



Mix hard, roll thin and fry in hot lard. Very good. 

Mrs. N. M. 

CRULI^ER5 NO. 3. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 heaped tablespoonful sugar. 

1 egg. A little nutmeg and salt. 

A pinch of soda in 1 teaspoon- Flour, 
ful water. 
Roll thin, cut into fancy shapes with a cruller cutter, fry 
quickly. Miss Hawes. 

OLD FASHIONED FRIED TURNOVERS. 

1 pint sour milk. 1 tablespoonful cream. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1 egg. 

Pinch of salt. Flour. 

Roll out as soft as possible, cut out the dough about 
the size of a saucer, fill with apple, pinch the edges firmly 
not to let the apple out. Fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Proctor. 

FRIED PIES. 

Make a dough same as for doughnuts, only not quite as 
short, roll thin and cut around the size of a small pie plate. 
Have the lard quite hot and fry quickly, turning often to keep 
the shape. Put each crust on a separate plate that any sur- 
plus fat may drain off. Mash and sweeten cider apple sauce, 
and spice with nutmeg and cinnamon, and spread between and 
upon these crusts. Mrs. A. D. Nelson. 

These pies do not require ** The Great Pie Belt" 
to hold them together. 



EGGS. 



MRS. Z. A. RICHARDSON. 



,^^:m^=.=^^ 




OMELET. 

Beat 3 eggs, add 3 tablespoonfuls sweet milk and a little 
salt. Pour into a hot frying pan well buttered. When partly 
done double in the pan. Can be made in two parts if you wish. 

Mrs. W. J. White. 

HAM OMELET. 

Four eggs, whites beaten to a stiff broth, the yolks and 4 
tablespoonfuls of sweet milk beaten together. Add pepper, salt 
and a little pinch of baking soda to the yolks, pour both together 
and put the spoon through a few times. Pour into a hot, but- 
tered pan, sprinkle a layer of ham chopped fine, put in the oven 
until the ^^'g is set, then cut apart and put one on top of the 
other. Serve hot. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

FRENCH OMELET. 

6 eggs. 1 cup boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 1 cup bread crumbs. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



32 COOKERY CRAFT. 



This is sufficient for two cakes. Fry them in suet drippings 
and when nearly done turn them, each one together in the 
shape of a half moon. Mrs. Willis D. Flint. 

" This fellow does not stand upon points. " — Mid- 
summer NighVs Dream. 

NETTIE'S OMELET. 

3 eggs beaten separately. 3 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the yolks, add milk, salt and pepper, lastly the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Have the frying pan as hot as possible 
without scorching, put in a good sized tablespoonful of butter, 
then pour in the omelet, to which should be added a pinch of 
soda. As soon as the whites seem firm, cut through the middle 
and fold over. Shake the pan to free the omelet, slide upon a 
hot platter and serve at once. L. B. Merrill. 

STEAMED EGGS. 

Place cups, each containing 1 teaspoonful of butter, a lit- 
tle salt and pepper, in a steamer. When the butter is melted 
break an ^gg into each cup, steam three minutes. 

Mrs. Crawford Ranney. 

BAKED EGGS No. 1. 

Butter a shallow baking dish, cover bottom and sides with 
very fine bread crumbs, break in as many eggs as will stay in 
place on bottom of dish and not run together; put on top, bits 
of butter, a little salt and pepper, cover all with fine bread 
crumbs. Bake in hot oven ten minutes. 

BAKED EGGS No. 2. 

6 little Qgg cups. 6 eggs. 

Bits of butter. Bread crumbs, fine. 

Butter cups, line with bread crumbs, break in the eggs, put 
on bits of butter, and salt and pepper to taste, cover with bread 
crumbs. Bake in hot oven. Both are much liked by all that 
have eaten them. Julia A. Taplin, 



EGGS. 33 

BAKED Ea03 No. 3. 

Break 8 eggs in a buttered dish, add a little pepper, 
a little salt, small bits of butter and 3 tablespoonfuls of sweet 
cream. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 
egos and ham baked. 

Take some very fine minced ham, mixed to a paste, with a 
little boiling water, let it cool, line small egg cups with ham, 
break an itgg into each cup, cover with bread crumbs. Bake 
ten minutes. Josephine. 

EGG TOAST. 

6 eggs. * Pie plate of meal. 

6 slices of bread. 

Toast and butter bread. Break eggs, put whites into a 
bowl, keep yolks in shells, stand each shell in plate of meal. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, spread on each slice of buttered 
toast and drop a yolk into the middle of whites, putting toast 
upon a platter. Put into hot oven until yolks are cooked. 
Very good. Julia A. Taplin. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Boil 3 eggs one-half hour, mash and season well with salt, 
butter and a little pepper. Spread 12 slices of bread, cut very 
thin, with butter, then spread with the egg and fold. 

Mrs. G. M. Howe. 

"The matter of t^gy lobster, man and mutton, as 
Mr. Huxley explained, is the same, and by subtle 
influences may be transubstantiated into each other, 
and this is the Physical Basis of Life. " — Wainwrigbt, 

FRIED EGGS. 

Place in a frying pan on a hot range 3 tablespoonfuls of 
butter or pork fat, heat well, then carefully break in 1 egg, 
taking care not to break the yolk. Cook one-quarter of a 
minute, then turn and cook one-quarter of a minute on the 
other side. 



34 COOKERY CRAFT. 



POACHED EQQ5. 

One pint boiling water in a spider, break eggs carefully one 
by one into the water, let boil until the whites set, lay on 
dish and put over a little butter, salt and pepper. Eggs should 
be quite fresh to poach nicely. 

SCRAMBLED E0Q5 No. 1. 

Butter the size of a walnut in the frying pan. When hot 
put in 6 eggs, which should be previously broken in a dish, 
season and stir until cooked as much as desired. Some prefer 
to use a little milk or cream with the eggs. 

SCRAMBLED EQQS No. 2. 

Beat 6 eggs, season with a little pepper and salt. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter in the frying pan, when it is hot pour 
in the eggs, stir until it thickens. Eat hot. 
SOFT BOILED EQGS. 

Put fresh eggs in a dish of boiling water and set on the 
back of range where it will not boil. Let stand ten or fifteen 
minutes. They will be soft but beautifully done. 

SPANISH EQQS. 

Add to 2 quarts boiling water a tablespoonful of salt, and 
in it cook until soft one cup of rice. Drain through a colander 
and add a tablespoonful of butter, spread lightly on hot plat- 
ter, and on it place dropped eggs. Mrs. P. D. Blodgett. 

DEVILED E005. 

Seasoning for 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful vinegar. Vs teaspoonful sugar. 

Vs teaspoonful mustard. A pinch of pepper. 

Vs teaspoonful salt. 

After the eggs have been boiled until the yolks are mealy, 
cool them, and removing the shells, cut in two. Mash the 
yolks until smooth and add the seasoning. Fill the whites 
with the seasoned yolks and serve when quite cold. 

Ellen C. Putney. 



SALADS. 



MRS. HARVLIN PADDOCK. 




MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

2 teaspoonfuls dry mustard. ^cup salad oil. 

1 teaspoonful water. V2 cup strong vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Mix salt and yolks of eggs with wooden spoon, add prepared 
mustard, mix tillsmooth with Dover egg beater, add oil, a few 
drops at a time, beat till thick, then add vinegar till of proper 
consistency. Mrs. M. 

"To make a salad dressing four persons are 
wanted : A spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, 
a counselor for salt, and a madman to stir up." — Span- 
ish Proverb. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

3 tablespoonfuls oil. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. V2 saltspoonful pepper. 

Place salt and pepper in a cup, and 1 tablespoonful of the 
oil, mix thoroughly, then add the remainder of oil and vinegar 
slowly. 



36 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SALAD DRESSING No. 1. 

Yolks of 3 eggs well beaten. 1 teaspoonful dry mustard. 
^ saltspoonful cayenne. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 1 cup cream. 

2 scant tablespoonfuls sugar. V2 cup hot vinegar. 

Cook in steamer until like soft custard, then add whites of 

3 eggs beaten light. Mrs. Orris Paddock Hastings. 

SALAD DRESSING No. 2. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 cup best vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful mustard. 1 egg. 

1 small tablespoonful salt. A bit of cayenne. 

Put mustard, sugar, salt, pepper and vinegar into earthen 
kettle, setting in boiling water, stir as it heats. When well 
cooked add the egg, well beaten, and stir all together. When 
cold, set away in glass jar until wanted. To prepare for table 
take 2 tablespoonfuls cream, well beaten, 4 tablespoonfuls 
boiled dressing, beat all together, add chopped celery or lettuce, 
mix with any chopped meat, garnish with nasturtium blos- 
soms and leaves. Miss Taplin. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful cream. ^ teaspoonful mustard. 

2 eggs. 

Beat eggs, add sugar, salt, mustard, lastly vinegar and 
cream. Cook in a double boiler until as thick as rich cream. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 
remoulade dressing. 

3 hard boiled eggs. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
1 raw yolk of egg. 3 tablespoonfuls olive oil. 
V2 teaspoonful made mustard. Salt and cayenne to taste. 

Remove egg shells, set aside whites to beused as a garnish. 
Mash yolks perfectly smooth, add mustard, seasonings, one- 
half the vinegar and mix thoroughly, add oil drop by drop, 
beating thoroughly all the while, then the yolk of the raw eggy 



SALADS. 37 

and when this is well beaten in, add remainder of vinegar. 
The quantities of oil and vinegar may be slightly increased 
according to taste. Mrs. Jonathan Ross. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

1 cold boiled chicken, white V2 teaspoonful made mustard. 

meat only. 2 hard boiled eggs. 

An equal quantity crisp celery. 1 raw ^gg. 

1 teaspoonful salt. V2 teacupful vinegar. 

2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls salad oil, (or 2 
% teaspoonful pepper. of sweet cream or 1 of butter.) 

Cut meat and celery in small squares, mix together, 
sprinkle a little salt over and set in a cool place while 
dressing is prepared. Rub yolks to a fine powder. Add salt, 
pepper and sugar, then the oil, a few drops at a time. Add 
mustard and let stand while you whip to a froth the raw ^gg. 
Add to the dressing, beating briskly all the while. Lastly add 
vinegar little by little. Mix lightly with a wooden spoon and 
turn into a salad bowl. Garnish with rings of the whites of 
hard boiled eggs, and parsley, or bleached celery tops. If in 
haste Durkee's dressing may be substituted. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

"It is not now a question of sentiment but one of 
digestion : Can we take in so much foreign material and 
so many sorts and retain our integrity." — The Immi- 
gration Problem. 

VEAL SALAD. 

Boil 3 pounds of veal until tender. Chop and add one-half 
the same amount, celery in season, (or cabbage and celery salt), 
chopped fine. When cold, pour over it the following dressing: 

3 eggs beaten up. V2 cup vinegar. 

% teaspoonful red pepper. 1 tablespoonful French mustard. 
1 cup sweet or sour cream. 1 tablespoonful salad oil or butter. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 scant tablespoonful salt. 

Boil till thick like custard. 

Mrs. Alice Smith Johnson. 



38 COOKERY CRAFT. 



FISH SALAD. 

One quart of any kind of cold, cooked fish (halibut, haddock or 
cod is nice), flaked and freed from bones and skin. Mash yolks 
of 3 hard boiled eggs, and 6 or 8 sardines (bones and skin re- 
moved) to a smooth paste. Mix this paste with boiled or 
mayonnaise dressing. Arrange fish on lettuce leaves and pour 
over it the dressing. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

Mabel Fairbanks. 

salmon salad. 

One can salmon, 1 large cupful cold boiled potato cut 
into dice. Drain salmon and remove bones and skin. Mix 
with potato. Add dressing just before serving. Garnish with 
parsley. Mrs. Merrill. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Two medium sized fresh lobsters, 3 stalks celery. Shred 
the meat of lobster, add chopped celery, and just before serv- 
ing, the dressing. A cream dressing is desirable. Garnish with 
lettuce or celery leaves. 

EQQ SALAD. 

Boil 6 eggs, remove shells, separate the yolks without 
breaking, cut whites into thin strips, or chop fine, and mix 
with an equal quantity of minced chicken, ham or salmon, and 
a tablespoonful of fine sprigs of parsley. Arrange this mix- 
ture on a bed of lettuce and garnish with yolks. Serve with 
French, mayonnaise or rcmoulade dressing. 

Mrs. Jonathan Ross. 

potato salad. 

6 eggs well beaten. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful mixed mustard. V2 teaspoonful pepper. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 coffee cup vinegar. 

Butter, size of an egg. 

Make a custard of these, afterward add a cup of sweet 



SALADS. 39 



cream and a bit of cayenne, add salt after custard is well 
cooked. Ten potatoes boiled, when cold cut into dice, add 
dressing just before serving. A* very little onion gives a fine 
flavor. J. H. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Three-fourths cup of sour vinegar, butter size of an egg. 
When melted add a large teaspoonful of mustard mixed with 
a little vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a dash of cay- 
enne pepper, 2^beaten eggs. Cook until it thickens, stirring 
all the while. Have cabbage chopped fine, season with salt 
and pepper. Add a cup of whipped cream to thecustard. Mix 
all together. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Take large, ripe tomatoes, pare and scoop out a little on 
upper side. Fill cavity with chopped celery. Pour over all 
any nice salad dressing. These placed on fresh lettuce leaves 
make a very attractive dish for tea. M. W. 

ASPARAQU5 SALAD. 

Select tender stalks of asparagus, boil, set away to cool, 
then cut into inch pieces. Just before serving, pour over it 
salad dressing No. 2. Garnish with parsley. M. L. P. 

BEET SALAD. 

Chop cold boiled beets. Place a layer in dish, then spread 
a thin layer of any good salad dressing (No. 1. is excellent), 
having first pulverized the yolk of 1 hard boiled egg and ad- 
ded to the dressing. Repeat until dish is filled, then garnish 
with the white of egg cut in rings. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

< 

To have a salad perfect, certain things should be noted. 
The meat or fish should not be moist; the celery or lettuce 



40 COOKERY CRAFT. 



should be crisp, and no pressure should be used in putting 
together; the dressing should be added just before serving, the 
mixing to be done with a silver fork as lightly as possible. 

SPECIFIC DIRECTION. 

** One should ordinarily stop eating the same when 
he experiences a hurrv of ideas, or indistinctness of the 
senses." — Lumpkin. 



SOUPS. 



MRS. HENRY FRENCH. 




" Modern research teaches that bones may be re- 
duced to food, as in Papin's Digester, and common saw- 
dust by chemical process made nutritious."— Br/c/^e- 
water Treatises, ii, 139. 

In preparing soups a few general rules are needed. When 
buying meat for soups, lean, juicy, fresh killed meat should be 
chosen. But an economical cook will save the liquor in which 
meat has been boiled and the trimmings of undressed meat 
and game. The bones from roast beef and lamb will also make 
good stock for soups. Great care should be taken to skim the 
soup just before it begins to boil. 

It is desirable to prepare the soup the day before it is wanted, 
that the fat may be removed when cold, when it should be 
carefully strained before using. 

*'Jess, having three whole plates and two cracked 
ones, insisted on dinner being taken genteelly, i.e., broth 
and beef on separate plates,'*— Window in Thrums. 

4 



42 CfXjKERY CRAFT. 



TOMATO 50L1». 

To 3 pints of soup stock, seasoned with salt and pep- 
per, add V2 can tomatoes; when hot, strain and add a round 
tab]es(>oonful of flour made very smooth in cold water. One good 
cook adds a generous tablespoonfnl of sugar, this may be as 
one likes. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

One quart can tomatoes, 3 pints of milk. Heat milk in 
double boiler, when hot add 1 tablespoonful of flour wet in a 
little cold milk. Add butter size of an egg, salt and pepper. 
Cook tomatoes and after straining add ^i teaspoonful soda, 
put all together and serve immediately. 

FRENCH SOUP. 

To 1 gallon beef stock, free from fat, add 1 head of celery, 
4 sprigs of parsley, 1 cup of stewed tomato, 1 medium sized 
onion cut fine, 1 small carrot cut into dice, 1 tablespoonful of 
rice, salt and pepper to taste. Boil steadily for one hour, 
remove celery and parsley before serving, add boiling water to 
preserve same quantity till done. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Six medium sized potatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 3 
pints of milk, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of salt, % teaspoonful white pepper, 1 onion if you please. Pare 
potatoes and boil until tender, pour off" the water, mash them 
and add the other ingredients and boil a few minutes. If you use 
parsley put it in the tureen and pour the soup on it through a 
colander. If you use an onion put it in the milk, removing it 
before you serve. 

** Much loved of all-commanding— Jove." 

CHICKEN AND CORN SOUP. 

Add 1 pint of tender green corn to 1 quart of chicken broth. 
Boil twenty minutes, add 1 cup of cream or milk, butter, salt 
and pepper. 



SOUPS. 43 



OREBN CORN CHOWDBR. 

Two slices of salt pork, fried brown, 2 small onions, 6 
potatoes, sliced. Cover with water and cook until soft. Cut 
the corn from 8 ears and cook fifteen minutes with 1 
quart of milk. Salt and pepper to taste. Add crackers if you 
like. Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

One quart oysters, 1V4 pints of milk, V2 pint of hot water. 
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Put milk and hot water in 
double boiler, let it come to a scald, then add oysters and 
cook till the edges begin to curl, thicken with a tablespoonful of 
flour wet with a little cold milk. Cook long enough to cook 
the flour. Have tureen hot. In the bottom of it put pepper, 
salt and butter. Pour soup over this. This prevents curdling. 

E. W. R. 

*' They made a most superior mess of broth, a 
thing which poesy but seldom mentions. But the best 
dish e'er was cooked since Homer's Achilles ordered 
dinner for new comers." 

QREEN PEA SOUP. 

Cook together for fifteen minutes a quart of delicate stock, 
can of green peas and a very small onion. Remove the onion 
and rub remainder through a sieve. Return to the fire, add a 
cup of milk or cream, a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into a 
teaspoonful of flour, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil two or 
or three minutes and it is ready to serve. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

One pint of black beans, soaked over night, in the morn- 
ing drain off the water, put on to boil in 3 quarts of stock. 
Boil for four hours, adding water as it boils away, add salt 
and pepper to taste. When the beans are thoroughly done 
strain the soup Slice 1 lemon and 2 hard boiled eggs very thin 
into the tureen and pour the soup over them. Serve with 
crackers or squares of toasted bread. 



44 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

One cup split peas, soaked over night, in the morning put 
on to boil in 1 quart of water, adding as it boils away to keep 
quantity the same. Any meat can be added to season it. 
When ready to serve, strain and season to taste, add a table- 
spoonful of flour. 

BEAN PORRIDaE. 

Six or 8 pounds of beef from the shank ; at least 6 quarts 
of cold water. Before it boils skim carefully, add water as it 
boils away. This should boil at least six hours. Remove the 
meat and skim ofi*the fat. Season with salt and pepper. Add 
, to this a quart of beans previously parboiled, boil until the 
beans are thoroughly done ; then add a thickening of a pint of 
corn meal wet in cold water. It should then boil an hour. 

Mrs. E. E. Baker. 
bean soup. 

To 3 cupfuls of cold baked beans add 3 pints of 
water, 2 slices of onion, and 2 stalks of celery. Simmer 
thirty minutes and rub through a sieve, add IV^ cupfuls stewed 
and strained tomatoes, V2 tablespoonful chili sauce. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Bind together with a tablespoonful each of 
melted butter and flour, adding it slowly to the soup. Served 
with croutons. Mabel Fairbanks. 

"If you boil dry beans they will swell. "—-B72^//s/ii?eac?er. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

1 quart chicken or veal broth. V2 cupful rice. 

1 quart milk. 1 head of celery. 

1 teaspoonful salt. A pinch of white pepper: 

Cook the rice very soft in a double boiler with half the milk 
and the salt. Grate the celery into the remainder of the milk, and 
let it warm slowly. When the rice is sufficiently cooked, put 
through a fine sieve, and mix with the celery. Then add the well- 
heated stock and pepper. Stir gently over a hot fire a few 
moments before serving. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 



-FISH AND OYSTERS. 



MRS. DENNIS E. MAY. 




PISH CHOWDER No. 1. 

5 pounds cod, haddock or bass. 6 potatoes. 
A 2-inch cube of salt pork. 
1 tablespoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 

6 crackers. 

Wipe the fish (having removed bones), and cut in pieces 
about two inches square. Break the bones and head, cover with 
cold water and boil. Pare and slice potatoes, using enough to 
have the same quantity by measurement as you had of fish ; 



2 small onions. 

V^ teaspoonful white pepper. 

1 quart milk. 



46 COOKERY CRAFT, 



soak in cold water; cut the pork in small pieces and 
fry; cut the onions in thin slices and fry in the pork 
fat; pour fat into the kettle, leaving out the onions and 
scraps of pork ; add potato, barely covering with boiling water. 
Boil ten minutes, then add the water in which the bones were 
boiled ; add salt and pepper, when boiling add fish and simmer 
ten minutes; add butter, hot milk and crackers, and, if you like, 
a little flour made smooth in milk. 

Mrs. Henry F'rench. 

"Adam and Eve lived in Paradise — they rarely ate 
fish but a ^reat deal of hotchpotch and radishes." 
—Sign of The Three Radishes— Holland. 

PISH CHOWDER No. 2. 

1 pint codfish (diamond wedge). 4 large potatoes. 

4 medium sized onions. 2 or 3 slices salt pork. 

1% pints milk. 6 crackers. 

Shred fish in the morning, put in cold water and freshen 
well. Slice potatoes thin, also the onions, and cover with 
cold water. One hour before dinner lay the pork in the bot- 
tom of an agate or porcelain lined kettle and fry a golden 
brown, cutting in small squares while frying; turn off the fat, 
leaving pork in kettle. Add a layer of the sliced potato, one 
of fish and one of onion, sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
dredge with flour. Just cover with boiling water and simmer • 
slowly until potatoes and onion are done, about three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Just before serving, add the milk and bring 
to a boil. Have the crackers split and buttered and laid in 
the tureen. Turn the chowder over them and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Henry G. Ely. 

BOILED PISH. 

Have the fi^ thoroughly cleaned and scaled, then wash 
carefully and wipe dry, dredge with flour, wrap in a clean 
cloth and sew or tie firmly. Put into kettle with cold water 
enough to well cover it and add a tablespoonful of salt. Let 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 47 

come to a boil and then keepit boiling till done, alio wing fifteen 
minutes to every pound of fish (codfish does not require as 
much time). Open the cloth on a sieve or strainer, and roll 
the fish carefully out. Let drain a minute and then turn upon 
the platter for the table. Serve with egg or white sauce. 

Mrs. Merrill. 
baked pish. 

Take a fresh cod or cusk, scale and wash thoroughly in 
salted water, wipe dry with a cloth. If the fish is to be served 
whole do not remove the head or tail ; stufl' the fish and sew 
it up. Rub with pepper, salt and flour, place in dripping pan 
with thin slices cf salt pork under it, also on top of it. Bake 
till brown, baste often. Do not put water in the pan. Serve 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH. 

1 cup bread crumbs. 1 saltspoonful of salt. 

1 saltspoonful pepper. 1 saltspoonful chopped onion. 

1 saltspoonful chopped pickles. M cup butter. 

Moisten with water. 

"The galosity of Gastaldy at the table of the Car- 
dinal Belloy caused his death. Let this be a warning; 
to Priests, whether Protestant, Pa pish or Presbyter- 
ian, as to helping guests three times to the belly part 
of a fish." — Timbs. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Get a square piece of halibut, put in a shallow baking pan, 
half cover with milk, baste often while baking. Serve with 
drawn butter and hard boiled eggs sliced. 

Mrs. French. 

BAKED HALIBUT STEAK. 

Have the fish cut into inch slices, wash in f^alt and water, 
dry on a cloth. Cut some thin slices of salt pork, wash and 
dry them, then place the pork in the pan and fry till crisp on 
one side. Take some flour on a plate, add pepper and salt, 



48 COOKERY CRAFT. 



then rub the fish thoroughly on both sides with this mixture. 
Take the pork from the pan and lay the fish in the hot 
pork fat ; place the slices of pork on top of the fish and set in 
hot oven until crisp. Swordfish is nice cooked in same way. 
Serve with drawn butter sauce. 

FILLET OF HALIBUT. 

3 pounds halibut. 2 onions. 

3 hard boiled eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Juice of 1 lemon. Salt and pepper. 

Free the fish from skin and bone. Cut in slices one-half 
inch thick, cut these in strips three inches long and two wide. 
Sprinkle with lemon juice, salt and pepper. Lay a thin slice of 
onion on each strip and let stand one-half hour. Melt the but- 
ter and put strips into it. Roll up and pin with wooden skew- 
ers, dip in butter once more, place in a tin pan, dredge with 
flour and bake twenty minutes. Remove skewers and pour 
around it white sauce No. 2. Mrs. French. 

3rd Fish — " Master, I marvel how thefishes live in 
the sea.*' 

1st Fish — *' Why, as men doa-land ; the great ones 
eat up the little ones."— Per/c/es. 

BAKED TROUT. 

Wash, wipe dry and rub salt in the inside of the fish. Lay 
in a dripping pan upon wooden fish sticks, with a little water 
in the bottom of the pan. Bake twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. Turn over very carefully and bake fifteen minutes 
longer. Put it on a hot platter and serve with cream sauce. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

FRIED TROUT. 

Clean, wash and wipe carefully. Rub a little salt into 
each fish, roll in*fine cornmeal. Have ready a hot frying pan 
in which small squares of salt pork are partly fried. Add a 
little butter. Put in the fish and fry quickly to a delicate 
brown, turning only once. Lay each fish for an instant QH ^ 



PISH AND OYSTERS. 49 



hot napkin to absorb the grease, and serve on a platter well 
heated, and garnished with parsley or celery tops. Great care 
should be taken not to handle the fish roughly. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

PISH A LA CREME. 

4 to 6 lbs. fish. Vs cup melted butter. 

1 cup cracker crumbs moist- 1 to IVi pints whitesauceNo. 1. 
ened with 
Clean fish, cook in boiling salted water with 1 tablespoon- 
ful vinegar till flesh separates from bones easily. Drain, and 
when cool remove skin and b(mes, pick apart in flakes, sprin- 
kle with salt and pepper. Put a layer offish on platter, cover 
with sauce, another layer of fish, then sauce. Moisten the 
cracker crumbs with the melted butter, spread over the top 
and bake until crumbs are bfown. Garnish with parsley. 4 
fish weighing 3^ pounds is sufficient foY eight people. Cod or 
halibut may be used in the same way. Mrs. French. 

PI3H BALLS No. 1. 

1 cup raw salt fish. 1 pint raw potatoes. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 egg well beaten. 

^ saltspoonful pepper. More salt if needed. 

Wash fish and pick in half-inch pieces ; pare potatoes and 
cut in quarters. Put together in a stew pan and cover with 
boiling water.' Boil twenty-five minutes or till done, drain off" 
all the water, beat fish and potato until very light, add but- 
ter, pepper, salt and beaten egg, mold into balls and fry in 
smoking hot lard one minute. Drain on paper. Mrs. F. 

" At breakfast fish balls I consumed. "—Hunt. 

** In fish balls the phosphites are supplied." — Taylor. 

"There is no thinking without phosphorus." 

—BOcbner. 
" But this is an assumption."— CAamfoers. 
*' Bread is the staff of life."— Sw/'/b. 
** A piece of bread, sir, if you please."— yongs. 
" We don't give bread with onefish baW.^*— Jenkins. 
5 



50 COOKERY CRAFT, 



PISH BALLS No. 2. 

Make ready a pint of cold salt fish niceh' shredded and 
chopped fine, also nearly a quart of fresh boiled potatoes, 
mashed with a cupful of broken butter and 2 even teaspoonfuls of 
made mustard, and V^ teaspoonful of salt thoroughly mixed in. 
Beat an Ggg light and stir it in with 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of 
cream or sweet milk. Now add the chopped fish, beating 
till it is thoroughly mixed. Take a heaping tablespoonful 
at a time and roll it on a floured board ; make it as round 
as possible and dredge well; go on till all is made up. Drop 
them, a few at a time, into deep, boiling hot lard, turn 
them over and over till they are evenly crisped and browned. 
Take out with a skimmer and drain. Keep in hot place till 
time to serve. 

Mrs. Merrill. 

CLAMS WITH CREAM. 

Chop 50 small clams, not too fine, and season with pepper 
and salt. Put into a stew-pan butter the size of an egg, when it 
bubbles sprinkle in a teaspoonful of flour and cook a few minutes, 
stir into it gradually the clam liquor, then the clams. Stew 
two or three minutes, then add a cup of boiling cream, and 
serve immediately. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS No. 1. 

For a family of five or six take a pint of oysters, add a gill 
of water, heat in a saucepan and skim well. Butter a medium 
sized nappy, place a la3'er of oysters in the bottom of the dish, 
dredge with salt and pepper, cover with a layer of fine bread 
or cracker crumbs, cover this with bits of butter. Alternate 
with the oysters and cracker crumbs, leaving a layer of crumbs 
on top. Strain the liquor off" the oysters to take out any bits 
of shell that may be in it, and pour over the dish. Add enough 
water to make sufficiently moist and bake until a nice brown. 

Mrs. Mary A. Brackett. 



PISH AND OYSTERS, 51 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS No. 2. 

1 pint oysters. 1 cup cream or rich milk. 

1 pint bread or cracker crumbs. Vi cup butter. 

Heat the oyster liquor with the butter and milk. Butter 
a shallow dish, put in a layer of crumbs, then a layer of oysters 
and sea sc>n with salt and pepper, then put in other layers of 
crumbs, oysters and seasoning, with a thick layer of crumbs 
on top. Moisten each layer of bread crumbs with the liquid, 
reserving the larger part for the top layer of crumbs. Lay a 
few pieces of butter on top. Bake in a hot oven twenty min- 
utes or till brown on top. Mrs. Henry Ross. 

LITTLE PiaS IN BLANKET3. 

Take as many large oysters as are wished and dry them 
with a towel. Have some fat bacon cut in very thin slices, 
cover each oyster with them and pin on with wooden tooth- 
picks. Broil or roast them until the bacon is crisp and brown. 
Do not remove toothpicks. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Nettie Magoon. 

*' Within these folds we may confidently look to 
find the intellectual powers of man." — Duke of Ar gyle, 

OYSTERS EN COQUILLE. 

Fill oyster or scallop shells with oysters, season with salt, 
butter, pepper and lemon juice; cover with sifted, buttered 
bread crumbs. Bake till the crumbs are brown. Place the 
shells on small plates and serve. W. C. B. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

1 pint oysters. 1 tablespoonfurflour. 

1 pint cream or rich milk. Small piece of onion and mace. 

Let the cream, with mace and onion, come to a boil; mix 
the flour with a little cold milk and stir it into the cream. Let 
the oysters come to a boil in their own liquor, skim carefully, 
drain oflf all the liquor, turn the oysters into the cream, skim 
out the mace and onion, and serve. W. C. B, 



52 COOKERY CRAFT, 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select largest, finest oysters, drain and wipe carefully, roll 
each in cracker crumbs, then in beaten ^gg, then in crumbs 
again. Fry in equal parts of lard and butter. Mix a dash of 
pepper with the crumbs. M. 

OYSTER SHORT CAKE. 

1 quart oysters. Vz cup butter. 

1 cup cream. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Bake short cake according to rule in bread department. 
Split and fill with creamed oysters. 

"The types of created life are four: 1, Radiate 
* * * 2, Molluscous— oyster: all stomach, no back bone. 
There are such people. I have seen them at Washing- 
ton."—^. My rick. 

EQG SAUCE. 

Take 1 cupful butter, rub into it 1 tablespoonful flour, ^ 
teaspoonful salt and Vk teaspoonful black pepper ; then add a 
pint of cold water, heat it, stirring all the time; when it begins 
to simmer, remove it from the fire, and add 2 or 3 hard boiled 
eggs, sliced thin or chopped fine as you prefer. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

% cup butter. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Vz lemon, juice only. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

Va cup boiling water. ^ saltspoonful pepper. 

Rub butter to a cream, add yolks, one at a time and beat 
well; then add lemon juice, pepper and salt. Five minutes 
before serving add the boiling water. Place the bowl in a 
saucepan of boiling water and stir briskly until it thickens. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

1 pint hot water or white Va cup butter. 

stock. Pepper and salt to taste. 

2 even tablespoonfuls flour. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 53 



CREAM SAUCE. 

2 cups sweet milk. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 cup sweet cream. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, except enough to wet the 
flour. When the milk is well heated, not boiled, add the cream, 
flour, butter and salt. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

WHITE SAUCE No. 1. 

1 pint cream or milk. 1 heaping tablespoonful butter. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

% saltspoonful pepper. Mrs. French. 

WHITE SAUCE No. 2. 

1 cup white stock or milk. 1 tablespoonful chopped onion. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. French. 



MEATS. 



MRS. P. D. BLODGETT. 




•'If 3-ou are hungry or a dry, 

Or your stomach out of orders, 
There's sure reliet at The Round of Beef 
For both these 2 disorders." 

, —Tavern Sign. 
ROAST BEEF. 

Have the oven hot and allow one hour for cooking a piece 
weighing 8 pounds. If you wish it very rare, three-fourths of an 
hour. Wipe the meat, then rub into it salt and pepper and dredge 
with flour. Place in baking pan without water. After the 
meat is browned over, which should be quickly, add a pint of 
hot water, watch carefully, and add more water if there is 
danger of burning and you desire a gravy. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

Wipe the meat with a cloth wrung out of cold water, then 
dredge with salt and pepper, and generously with flour. Place 



MEATS. '55 



on a meat rack in the baking pan or steamer. Cover the bot- 
tom of the pan with flour, place in hot oven, and as soon as 
the flour in the pan is brown, pour in hot water enough to 
cover the bottom of the pan. Baste it often. Cook a 6 pound 
leg one and three-fourths hours. When the meat is done, pour 
all the fat from the gravy and add a cup of boiling water to 
what remains in the pan. Thicken this with a paste made of 
a tablespoonful of flour and a little cold water. Stir well and 
boil two or three minutes, season with salt and pepper, strain 
and serve. All the dishes must be very warm for a mutton 
dinner. 

PRIED VEAL WITH TOMATOES. 

Cut veal in thin slices, season and fry a nice brown. Have 
ready tomatoes which have been stewed very dry. Pass 
through a sieve to remove the seeds. Put in the pan in which 
the meat has been fried, and add butter enough to make a 
rich gravy. Pour hot over the veal and serve. 

BOILED LEG OP LAMB. 

Take fine, fresh leg of lamb, weighing about 5 pounds, soak 
in warm water for two hours, then wrap it in a cloth and 
boil it slowly for an hour and a half, or until tender. Put it 
to boil in hot water, and when partly done, add salt enough 
to season the broth. If % a cup of rice is boiled with the 
lamb, it gives the meat a nice white look. 

" What is this, mutton ? No sheep, sweet lamb." 

BEEF BALLS. 

Take round steak or any inexpensive piece of fresh beef, 
chop it fine, season with salt and pepper. Form this into small 
flat cakes. Put in the frying pan 2 tablespoonfuls of butter or 
drippings, fry in this a little chopped onion until it is brown, 
remove the onion, and fry the meat balls until brown on both 
sides. Nice for breakfast. Mrs. W. A. Taplin. 



56 COOKERY CRAFT. 



VEAL LOAF No. 1. 

3V^ pounds leg of veal 8 tablespoonfuls powdered 

chopped raw. cracker. 

3 tablespoonfuls cream. 2 scant tablespoonfuls salt. 

1 small teaspoonful pepper. Butter size of egg. 

2 eggs. 

Stir all together, then mold into loaf. Put a little water 
in dish in which it is baked. Sprinkle cracker over top. Bake 
three hours, basting well. Mrs. H. Paddock. 

VEAL LOAF No. 2. 

3 pounds of veal or fresh beef. 3 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

V2 pound of salt pork 1 dessertspoonful of pepper. 

chopped fine. 2 beaten eggs. 

Add a little sage. 1 teacupful cracker crumbs. 

Mix and press hard into a tin. Bake one and one-half 
hours. Slice when cold. The butcher will weigh and chop the 
meat. Mrs. H. E. Belknap. 

BROILED BEEP STEAK. 

Have steak cut from three-fourths to an inch thick Cook 
over clear coals ten minutes, this gives it rare, then place on a 
warm dish, season with salt, pepper and butter. Many peo- 
ple prefer to dredge it with salt and flour before cooking. But 
it is not as good. 

FRIED BEEP STEAK. 

The next best thing to broiling is to heat a frying pan hot, 
grease the pan to prevent the steak from sticking, lay the steak 
in, cook quickly, and serve as broiled steak. 

*'I found that Friday still bad a hankering after 
some of his accustomed meat."— ^. Crusoe, 

BEEP STEAK. 

Broil and season as before directed, then place lettuce 
leaves on dish, steak on the lettuce, then place thin slices of 
lemon on §teak. 



MEATS. 57 



BOILED HAM No. 1. 

For a 10 pound ham, wash and boil gently for three hours 
in just water enough to cover it, then remove the skin and put 
it in a large baking pan, place in moderate oven until it is a 
rosy brown. It gives a nice flavor to the ham if whole cloves 
are stuck in it before baking. 

BOILED HAM No. 2. 

Wash, then boil an 8 or 10 pound ham for two hours in 
water enough to cover. Remove the skin and bake in a blanket 
for an hour and a half. Then remove the blanket and serve 
hot or cold. To make the blanket, prepare dough as for cream 
tartar biscuits, only use a pint of water in place of milk, and no 
shortening. Roll the dough out large enough to wrap the 
ham in, bake in a dripping pan in a moderate oven for one 
and one-half hours. Mrs. A. Lincoln. 

PRIED HAM. 

Put a tablespoonful of drippings in a frying pan, when 
hot, lay slices of ham in, fry quickly eight or ten minutes. It 
wll be brown and crisp. 

BROILED HAM. 

Cut the ham in thin slices, cut off the rind, then broil over 
clear coal ten minutes. If ham is salt or hard, let it stand in 
warm water a little while before cooking. 

"They claim it is as natural for a man to eat what 
will give him fat and phosphorus, as for a monkey to 
eat nuts." 

ROAST PORK. 

Rub the meat well with pepper, salt and flour. Put a pint 
of water in the pan, baste often and do not hnve the oven as 
hot as for other meats. Bake twenty minutes for each pound. 
It is rapr? ^vholesom^ if cooked until tender and eaten cold, 



58 COOKERV CRAFT. 



BEEP STEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS. 

In cooking beef steak and onions use 6 medium-sized 
onions to a pound of beef. Slice the onions and place in iron 
spider, in which has been melted a piece of butter and a piece 
of lard the size of a walnut. Stir constantly while frying to 
prevent scorching, and fry to a deep golden brown. When done 
turn out into a hot dish with a cover, then put in same spider 
and fry quickly the steak. Serve on hot platter with lumps of 
butter and pour the onions over it. Season with pepper and 
salt. Mrs. E. A. Blodgett. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

Slice the liver and place between two towels, cut salt pork 
into dice, sprinkle a layer of pork into frying pan, then lay in a 
layer of the liver, then a layer of the pork and a layer of liver 
until you have the desired amount, then season with salt 
and pepper and pour in boiling water until it comes up in sight. 
Cover closely, bake in moderate oven one hour. Serve on hot 
platter and cover with bits of butter. 

Mrs. George Howe. 

PRESSED BEEF. 

Take a piece of corn beef and put it into boiling water 
and keep it boiling till tender. Remove bones. Chop lean and 
fat together. It does not need to be made very fine, only so 
that fat and lean may be thoroughly mixed. Stir in enough 
dry mustard to flavor it. Put the meat in a baking tin and 
put another tin of the same size inside the one containing the 
meat ; put on this two or three flatirons for a weight, and let 
the meat stand over night ; the next day it will come out in a 
good loaf from which nice slices can be cut. 

Mrs. S. W. Hall. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE, 

Beat 1 cup of butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour to a 
cream, pour over this 1 pint of boiling water, let it come to a 
boiling point, but do not boil. Serve immediately. 



MEATS. 59 



EGG SAUCE. 

Chop two hard boiled eggs and stir into drawn butter. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Into a pint of drawn butter, stir 3 teaspoonfuls of capers. 

MINT SAUCE. 

1 cup of fresh chopped mint, ^/i cup of brown sugar, V2 cup 
of vinegar. Let it stand an hour, serve cold with lamb or mut- 
ton. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

Meat is in season all the year. Pork in autumn and win- 
ter, veal in spring and summer, lamb in summer and fall, mut- 
ton and beef at anytime. All meats require more or less trim- 
ming and cleaning, also the most watchful care while cooking. 
If possible never wash fresh beef, as by this means much of the 
juice is lost. Wring a clean cloth out of cold water and wipe 
the meat. In roasting meat if a little sugar is dredged over it 
before dredging with salt and flour, it improves the flavor and 
helps to keep in the juice of the meat. 

Mutton, veal and pork should be thoroughly cooked to be 
wholesome. Boiled salt meat is nicer if it stands in the water 
until cool. It is well to boil corned beef the day before using. In 
broiling, first grease the gridiron with some* of the fat, the 
secret of broiling is frequent turning. 

•'A dinner lubricates business." — LordStowelL 
"Dispatch is the soul of business,"— LorJ Chester£eld, 



POULTRY AND GAME. 




ROAST TURKEY. 

First singe over blazing paper or alcohol, then cut off the 
feet and tips of the wings, and the neck as far as it is dark ; 
then with the blade of a knife take out all the pin feathers; 
turn the skin of the neck back and with the thumb and fore- 
finger draw out the crop and wind pipe. Cut a slit in the 
lower part of the fowl and draw out the intestines, being care- 
ful not to break the gall bag, which is found near the upper 
part of the breast bone and attached to the liver. Cut the oil 
bag from the tail. Now wash thoroughly and drain. Split 
gizzard and take out the inside and inner lining, wash and put 
on to boil in two quarts of cold water. (This is for the gravy). 

Turkey of 8 pounds. 1 tablespoonful parsley. 

1^ pint bread crumbs. 1 teaspoonful pepper. 

V2 pint cracker crumbs. 1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoonful sage. 

% cup butter. 1 tablespoonful summer savory. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 61 

Soak the bread and cracker crumbs in cold milk or 
water till soft. Add the other ingredients and mix well. 
Fill the breast of the turkey first, and put the remainder in the 
body of the bird, sewing the openings securely together. Cross 
and tie the legs, run a skewer through the wings, fastening to 
the body. Fasten the neck under the body with a skewer, tie 
all with a twine. Rub the turkey with salt, and lay thin slices 
of salt pork on the body. Place on a rack in a dripping pan or 
in a tin kitchen. Cover the bottom with water. Place in a 
hot oven and baste often with the drippings. Fifteen minutes 
before dishing, remove the bits of salt pork, moisten with but- 
ter and dredge lightly with flour. After the first half hour 
reduce the heat of the oven. Bake two hours, and fifteen min- 
utes more if a tin kitchen is used. Serve wi th giblet gravy. 

'•Why dost not thou take me upon thy pens, O 
King of the air! thou fearless and unwearied bird of 
wondrously swift flight! Who, more than thou, is 
raised above the mean fatalities of existence?" 

— Micbekt, 

For giblet gravy, boil the heart, gizzard and liver in 2 
quarts of water two hours, then take up and chop the gizzard 
and heart. Mash the liver till fine and return to the liquid. 
When hot thicken with 1 tablespoonful of flour and season with 
pepper and salt. When the turkey is taken up, turn the drip- 
pings into this gravy, boil up once and send to the table. 

Mrs. J. W. Balch. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

To clean the chicken, singe, remove the pin feathers, oil 
bag, crop, entrails, and cut off" legs and neck, slip the skin 
back from the neck, and cut the neck off" close to the body, leav- 
ing skin enough to fold over on the back. Remove the wind 
pipe, pull the crop awav from the skin on the neck and breast. 
Always pull the crop out from the end of the neck. Wash and 
wipe the inside. 

To clean the giblets, slip off the thin membrane round the 



82 COOKERY CRAFT. 



heart, cut out the veins and arteries, remove the liver, and cut 
off all that looks green near the gall blajdder. Trim the fat and 
membranes from the gizzard, open it, and remove the inner 
lining without breaking it. Wash them and put in cold water 
to cook until tender. The neck and tips of the wings can be 
cooked with the giblets. 

Dressing made as follows for a chicken weighing between 
3 and 4 pounds : Take 1 pint of stale bread, break up in fine 
crumbs and moisten. Addl teaspoonfulof salt, V^teaspoonful 
pepper, V2 teaspoonful powdered sage, V2 teaspoonful 
summer savory, and Vi cupful butter. Mix well together, and 
put the stuffing in at the neck ; fill out the breast until plump 
and even, then draw the neck skin together at the end and sew it 
over on the back. Put the remainder of the stuffing into the 
body at the other opening and sew it with fine twine. 

To truss the fowl, draw the thighs up close to the body, 
and cross the legs over the tail and tie firmly with twine. 
Put a long skewer through the thigh into the body and out 
through the opposite thigh, and another through the wings, 
drawing them close to the body. Wind a string from the tail 
to the skewer in the thigh, then up to the one in the wing, 
across the back to the other wing, then down to the opposite 
thigh, and tie firmly round the tail. If you have no skewers, 
the strings must be passed round the body, over thighs and 
wings. 

"15th March, 1669, I did walk to *The Cocke,' 
at Head of Suffolke street, where a great ordi- 
nary mightily cried up and there bespoke a pullet, and 
we dined very handsome with a good soup and Pullet 
for 4s. 6d. the whole." — Pepys. 

Before putting the chicken into the pan it should be 
dredged well with salt. Take soft butter in the hand, and 
rub thickly over the chicken, then dredge rather thickly with 
flour. Place on the side on the rack, and put into a hot oven 
for a few moments, that the flourinthebottomof the pan may 



POULTRY AND GAME. S3 

brown. When it is browned, put in water enough to cover the 
pan. Baste every fifteen minutes with the gravy in the pan, 
and dredge with flour. When one side is browned, turn and 
brown the other. The last position in which the chicken should 
bake is on its back, that the breast may be nicely browned. 
The last basting is on the breast, and should be done with soft 
butter and dredged with flour. The water in the pan should 
often be removed, and always be careful not to get in too 
much at a time. It will take about one hour and a half to 
cook a chicken weighing between 3 and 4 pounds. 

For gravy, take the giblets, which have been cooking, put 
the liver on a plate, mash fine with the back of the spoon, then 
chop the gizzard, heart and meat from the neck very fine, and 
add to the water in which they have been boiled. Then take 
the gravy from the pan in which the chicken was cooked, and 
add to the giblet gravy, thicken with flour, and season with 
salt and pepper. Mrs. Ellen R. Pike. 

TO ROAST A GOOSE. 

Parboil an hour to extract the oil from the skin ; wipe dry 
and add dressing as for a turkey. When you put the water 
into the dripping pan, cut an onion in halves and lay one 
piece on each side. When the goose is basted it will not taste 
of the onion, but the otherwise strong taste is quite destroyed. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

'*This brave and beautiful bird, native of the 
primitive cloaca, last bom of ancient world has no 
stain nevertheless. His grand and formidable voice 
announces from afar the gravity and dignified heroism 
of his race."— Pa/einecfea Kornuta, 

TO ROAST A DUCK. 

Parboil, with onions and V^ teaspoonful of soda. Parboil 
a second time in clear water, then takeout, stuff" and roast like 
turkey, basting often. Mrs. Annie Horton. 



64 COOkERY CRAPT. 



TO BOIL A TURKEY. 

Prepare as for roasting. Fill with whole crackers to keep 
the fowl in shape ; rub a little salt inside to season ; sew up in 
a cloth well dredged with flour. See that the water boils when 
the fowl is put in and that there is enough to cover the turkey. 
Try as other boiled meats, with a fork or knitting needle. 
This method of cooking requires a sauce. Either drawn but- 
ter or oyster sauce is nice. Boil a chicken the same way, 
except a shorter time. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

1 pint oysters. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

% lemon. 1 teaspoonful flour. 

1 teacupful milk or cream. Cayenne and nutmegif you like. 

Stew the oysters in their own liquor five minutes, add the 
milk. When this boils, strain, return the liquor to the sauce- 
pan. Thicken with moistened flour. Add the butter, boil one 
minute; add lemon juice and pour out. 
BROILED CHICKEN. 

Split down through the breast tender spring chickens. 
Wash and wipe thoroughly ; rub both sides in salt, dredge 
with flour, and put in a baking pan with a little water. When 
nearly cooked, remove to a buttered broiler over hot coals and 
brown on each side. 

CHICKEN FRICA55EED. 

Cut one chicken in pieces as for serving, cover with salted 
boiling water; let it simmer for an hour or until it is 
almost tender. Takeout the chicken and cook the broth down 
to about a pint. To this add 1 pint of sweet milk, 1 well 
beaten egg, 1 tablespoonful flour, a little more salt, and a 
pinch of celery salt. Put the chicken back into the hot gravy 
and cook twenty minutes or half an hour. This for a white 
fricassee. If you wish a brown one, brown the pieces of fowl 
in a hot buttered frying pan, and pour the gravy over as in 
the first. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 65 

TO COOK A PARTRIDGE. 

Clean and wipe dry. Boil half an hour in salted water, 
then fry until brown in a hot pan with plenty of butter. 
Serve on slices of dry toast, with parsley and currant jelly for 
garnishing. 

SNIPE, PLOVER, WOODCOCK, AND OTHER SMALL GAME. 

These may be cleaned and trussed like chickens but not 
stuffed. Should be laid in rows on the rack in the dripping 
pan, sprinkled with salt and often basted with butter and 
w^ater. Each bird should be served on a round of bread nicely 
browned and generously buttered. 

Rabbits should be skinned and soaked an hour in salt 
water before cooking. They can be roasted, stewed, fried or 
fricasseed. 

Squirrels are best broiled after the manner of spring 
chickens, having first been soaked thoroughly to draw out the 
blood and then wiped dry. 

Some people delight in squirrel pie. The following is a 
good recipe : 

Clean and soak the squirrels and stew in a saucepan 
with small bits of salt pork and water to nearly cover, until 
half done. Season with salt and pepper and a bit of butter, 
thicken the gravy and pour all into a deep buttered dish. 
Cover with pie crust and bake half an hour. 

HOW TO EAT PEACOCK. 

*' Tito quoted Horace, dispersed bis slice of peacock 
over the plate. Rucellai made a learned observation 
about the ancient price of peacocks' eggs but did not 
pretend to eat his slice. Nichols Ridolphi held a 
mouthful of peacock on his fork while he told a 
story."— George Eliot, 

" Apicius dined on peacocks' brains and tongues of 
nightingales. He made way with himself, having 
only £1,000,000 to live on:'—Eng. Review. 



ENTREES. 



MISS LIZZIE M. Ross. 




"Lei's do it after^he high Roman fashion." 

— Cleopatra. 
MACARONI. 

^ pound macaroni. 1^ cups hot milk. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

% cup bread crumbs. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 cup melted butter. 

Break the macaroni in three inch pieces and put into 3 
pints of boiling salted water. Boil twenty minutes or until 
soft. Drain in a colander and pour cold water through to keep 
it from sticking. Cut into inch pieces. Put in a shallow bak- 
ing dish and cover with a white sauce made with IV^ cups of 
milk, 1 tablespoonful butter and 1 of flour. Add the salt. 
Mix the bread crumbs and melted butter and sprinkle over the 
top. Bake until the crumbs are brown. 

MACARONI AND TOMATOES. 

Boil as above and cover with tomato sauce made from IV^ 
cups of steamed tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour. Pour over the macaroni, cover with bread crumbs 
and brown in the oven. 



ENTREES. 67 



MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

One-fourth pound macaroni, 1 cup grated cheese. Boil the 
macaroni as directed above. Butter an earthen dish. Putin a 
layer of macaroni, then a layer of cheese, salt, pepper and but- 
ter. Next a layer of macaroni, cheese, etc., so on until all has 
been used, covering the top with cheese. Pour over all enough 
milk to nearly reach the top of the macaroni. Bake half an 
hour or until a rich brown. Mrs. Edward Ross. 

LAMB SCALLOP. 

1 cup cold lamb, chopped fine. 1 cup stewed tomatoes. 
1 cup fine bread crumbs. 

Arrange all in layers in a buttered dish, having the crumbs 
at the top. Season with salt and pepper, put bits of butter on 
top and bake. Mrs. S. W. Hall. 

SCALLOPED LAMB. 

Remove the fat and skin from cold roast lamb; cut the 
meat in small, thin slices, season it with salt and pepper. 
Cook H pound macaroni in boiling salted water until tender ; 
rinse thoroughly in cold water. Prepare a brown totnato 
sauce. Butter a baking dish and put in a layer of meat, then 
one of macaroni, then tomato sauce. Continue in this order 
till the dish is filled, having sauce on top. Cover with % cup 
of cracker crumbs moistened with Vs cup melted butter. Cook 
in the oven until the crumbs are brown. 

"Varieties of dishes, pleasant sauce, all that 
Misillus admired in Lucian;also he hath gout, drop- 
sies, apoplexies, palsies, stone, pox, rheums, catarrhs, 
conditions, oppilations, and such others as therewith 
get in." — Anatomy of Melancholy. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 pint tomatoes. 2 cloves. 

% onion. A sprig of parsley. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 heaping tablespoonful flour. 

Cook the tomatoes, onions, cloves and parsley ten minutes 



68 COOKERY CRAFT. 



in a double boiler, then strain. Brown the butter, then add 
the flour, then the tomato pulp gradually. Serve with salt 
and pepper. 

CHEESE PONDU. 

% cup crackers broken fine. 1 cup sweet milk. 
V2 cup grated cheese. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

2 eggs beaten light. Pepper and salt to taste. 

A pinch of soda. 

Bake in a quick oven. Very nice for supper. Put soda in 
the last. Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

RICE WITH CHEESE. 

Wash thoroughly 1 cup rice, add it to 2V2 cups boiling 
water, to which has been added 1 tablespoonful salt. Steam 
until tender. Put a layer into a buttered pudding dish, dot 
over with butter, sprinkle with thin shavings of cheese and a 
speck of cayenne ; repeat until the rice is used and Vi pound 
cheese. Add milk to half the depth of the contents of the dish, 
cover with buttered crumbs and bake until the cheese melts. 
Use a silver fork to stir the nee. To prepare cracker crumbs, 
roll but not sift them, and use Vi cup of melted butter to 1 cup 
crumbs. Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 

TURKISH PILAP. 

Boil well washed rice, 1 scant cup, for half an hour, stir- 
ring seldom, and only with a fork. Pour inl tablespoonful of 
melted and slightly scorched butter, and 1 scant cup of 
strained tomato juice. When it has absorbed the water so as 
not to be watery, it is read}- to serve. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

V2 pound cooked chicken or 1 pint very thick cream sauce. 

veal, chopped very fine. V2 teaspoonful celery salt. 

V2 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

1 saltspoonful white pepper. A few drops onion juice. 
A few grains cayenne pepper. 1 beaten figg. 

Mix sauce with chicken, spread on a plate to cool, shape 



ENTREES. 69 



into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, 
then in bread crumbs and fry one minute in very hot fat. 
Drain on paper and let stand in the oven a few minutes, as the 
lard may not have heated the mixture through. They may be 
fried in the morning and placed in the oven and warmed for tea. 

Cooking School. 

' THICK CREAM SAUCE FOR CROQUETTES. 

1 pint hot cream or milk. % teaspoonful salt. 

2 even tablespoonfuls butter. % teaspoonful celery salt. 
4 heaping tablespoonfuls flour V2 saltspoonful pepper. 

or 2 heaping tablespoonfuls A few grains of cayenne, 
cornstarch. Mrs. J. Ross. 

" Evidently dyspepsia cannot be said to depend on 
filling the stomach with odds and ends, as it were a 
second-hand junk shop.' — ATat. Review. 

CROQUETTES OF ODDS AND ENDS. 

These are made of any scraps of meat that may be left 
over from one or more meals in such quantities that they can- 
not be utilized separately. For example, a leg of chicken, the 
lean meat of a lamb chop, bits of roast beef or veal maybe used 
together with good effect. Chop the meat very fine, after the 
fat and gristle has been removed. To 1^ cups of meat, add 2 
tablespoonfuls mashed potato, 3 tablespoonfuls rich drawn 
butter gravy, 1 teaspoonful onion juice, 1 sprig of parsley, 
finely chopped, salt and pepper to taste. Beat 2 eggs and add 
2 tablespoonfuls of same to croquette mixture, reserving what 
is left to use later. Set the croquette mixture on the ice to 
harden, then form into little cones. Dip in the egg saved for 
the purpose, then roll in bread crumbs; set them in a frying 
basket and fry in hot lard till they are a rich, golden brown in 
color. Bread crumbs may be used in place of the potato, and 
any meat gravy in place of the drawn butter, but care must be 
taken that the croquettes are moist enough to be palatable 
and at the same time not too rich to keep their shape. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Kyburg. 



70 COOKER y CRAFT, 



NELLIE'S MEAT CROQUETTES. 

1 pint meat chopped very fine. % cup sweet milk. 

IV^ tablespoonfuls butter. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

A bit of salt and pepper. 

Heat the milk. Rub the butter and cornstarch together. 
Stir into hot milk, add the meat, mix well, roll into small balls, 
roll in fine cracker crumbs. Beat 2 eggs, roll the balls in the 
beaten egg, then crumbs again. Fry in hot lard. 

Miss Taplin. 

POTATO CROQUETTES No. 1. 

One pint mashed potatoes, 1 tablespoonful butter, white 
pepper to taste, a speck of cayenne, V2 teaspoonful salt and a 
little celery salt, also 1 egg. Mix all but egg and beat until 
very light. When slightly cool, add the well beaten egg and 
mix well. Shape into round balls or rolls, cover with bread 
crumbs, then dip in egg, then roll again in fine crumbs and fry 
for one minute in smoking hot lard. Serve at once or keep in 
hot place until wanted. This will make about fifteen cro- 
quettes. Mrs. R. p. Fairbanks. 

POTATO CROQUETTES No. 2. 

6 potatoes. 1 ounce butter. 

Vs cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

Boil and mash the potatoes, mix butter, milk and salt. 
Make into balls or rolls, roll in cracker crumbs, then in beaten 
egg, then crumbs again. Fry in hot lard. J. J. A. T. 

"Apparent rari nantes gurgite vasto." 
FISH CROQUETTES No. 1. 
6 potatoes. 1 cup fish of any kind well cooked. 

Mix as for potato croquettes. J. A. T. 

FISH CROQUETTES No. 2. 

Take 1 pint of any cold white fish, flake it very fine, 
remove all bones and pieces of skin ; season it highly with salt, 
pepper, cayenne and onion juice. Let the taste decide, but 



ENTREES. 71 



remember that fish needs more than meat. Moisten the fish 
with one cup thick cream sauce. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Put 1 pint of oysters on to boil in their own liquor for five 
minutes, then drain and chop. Put a scant cup of the liquor 
with the same quantity of cream in a sauce pan, rub 1 table- 
spoonful of butter with 2 of flour and pour into boiling broth. 
When slightly cooked add chopped oysters with 2 beaten eggs, 
V2 cup bread crumbs or enough to make mixture thick, season 
with salt, a dash of cayenne and mace, if that is liked, mix well 
and spread on a dish to cool. When firm, form into croquettes. 
Roll first in fine bread crumbs, then in beaten egg and then in 
bread crumbs again. Fry in boiling fat. 

Mrs. R. p. Fairbanks. 

FRITTER BATTER. FOR OYSTERS, CLAMS OR FRUIT. 

Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. 1 tablespoonfiil olive oil, or 
V2 cup milk or water. melted butter. 

1 cup flour. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

Mix and add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. If it is 
intended for fruit add a teaspoonful of sugar. For clams or 
meat add 1 tablespoonfiil of lemon juice or vinegar. 

For oyster fritters, boil the oysters till the liquor flows 
freely. Drain, strain the liquor and use instead of milk in mak- 
ing the batter. Dip each oyster in the batter and fry brown in 
hot fat. 

For clam fritters, drain the clams and chop the hard parts. 
Use the liquor to make the batter. Add the clams to the bat- 
ter and fry by small tablespoonfuls in hot lard. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

1 cup flour. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 scant teaspoonful baking 1 saltspoonful salt. 
powder. 
Mix together. Beat 1 egg very light, add V^ cup milk. Add 



72 COOKERY CRAFT, 



this to the first mixture, beat well. Add 1 large apple cut in 
small pieces. Drop by tablespoonfuls into deep fat and fry 
until brown. Mrs. J. Ross. 

DEVILED OYSTERS. 

1 pint oysters. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Yolks 2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

1 cup cream. 1 tablespoonful chopped pars- 

1 teaspoonful salt. ley. 

A few grains cayenne. 

Drain the oysters and chop slightly. Melt the butter, add 
the flour, and pour on slowly the hot cream. Add the beaten 
yolks, the parsley, salt and cayenne. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until brown. Mrs. J. Ross. 

SUPREME OF CHICKEN. 

Chop the choicest parts of a raw chicken very fine, having 
about 2 cups, add 4 well beaten eggs, one at a time, until the 
mixture is smooth ; add W2 cups of thick cream, V2 teaspoonful 
salt, and Vi saltspoonful pepper. Decorate molds with truffles, 
fill with the mixture, cover with buttered papers. Set in a pan 
of hot water and bake thirty minutes. Serve with a sauce 
made of 1 cup each of white stock and milk and the yolks of 3 
eggs. Miss Mabel Fairbanks. 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

Melt 1 tablespoonful butter, add 1 tablespoonful flour. 
Pour in slowly 1 cup hot milk or cream, add V2 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 saltspoonful pepper, and 1 cup chicken meat cut into 
dice. 

POTATO BORDER FOR CREAM CHICKEN. 

Wash and pare 9 medium sized potatoes, cook them in 3 
pints boiling salted water until tender, drain off" water, mash 
and season with 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
saltspoonful pepper, and hot milk to moisten. Arrange as a 
border around chicken. Mrs. Julia Ross Aldrich. 



ENTREES. 73 



CHICKEN PIE No. 1. 

Take 2 quarts flour, add 4 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 2 
teaspoonfuls soda, and 2 teaspoonfuls salt; sift all together. 
Rub in 2 cups of lard, mix soft with sweet milk. Cover the 
pan with the crust except a small space on the bottom. Boil 
2 chickens tender, remove the large bones, fill the pan with 
chicken, add salt, pepper and bits of butter. Thicken the 
broth, pour over the chicken, cover with crust one-half inch 
thick, with an opening in the center for steam to escape. 
Bake one and one-half hours. Mrs. William Shaw. 

CHICKEN PIE NO. 2. 

Joint the chicken and boil till tender in salted water. 
Remove the breast bone. 

1 quart flour. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter or 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. lard. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Increase this quantity to the size of pie desired. Sift the 
cream tartar into the flour, rub in the butter and mix all to- 
gether with sweet milk enough to roll easily. Line the pan in 
which you wish to bake, with the dough one-half inch thick. 
Fill the center with the chicken laid in, without breaking the 
pieces ; season with salt and pepper. Pour over the chicken 
1 cup of the chicken liquor; lay on pieces of butter. Roll the 
remainder of the dough one inch thick, spread with butter and 
dust with flour; roll up hard. Cut this into slices; lay one on 
the board and roll each way; on this place another slice and 
roll as before. Repeat this until the dough fits the top of the 
pan ; slash through the center that the steam may escape and 
close the edges of the pie carefully. Bake in hot oven two or 
three hours. Take the remainder of the chicken liquor, thicken 
it a little with flour, season with butter, salt and pepper, if 
liked, serve with the pie. Mrs. H. Ross. 

" They are all upper crust here." — Haliburton, 



74 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CREAM CRUST FOR CHICKEN PIE. 

1 quart flour. 1 cup sour cream. 

1 teaspoonful salt. V2 cup sour milk. 

1 rounded teaspoonful soda. 

Mrs. Wm. Clkment. 

PIDGEONS. 

Take small pieces of round steak, make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, melted butter, salt and pepper. Roll the steak around 
a small bit of the dressing and pin with a toothpick. Make a 
sauce of stock, or hot water and butter; thicken with bread 
crumbs and flavor with tomatoes or onions. Put thepidgeons 
into an earthen dish, cover and bake two or three hours. 

Mrs. H. B. 

BEEF ROLL. 

W2 pounds round steak. V4, pound salt pork. 

1 ^gg. 4 or 5 slices of white bread. 

Chop the bread and meat fine and season with salt, pepper 
and a little chopped onion. Mix with the ^gg well beaten and 
roll in a sheet of buttered foolscap paper. Bake an hour. 
When the juice begins to ooze out put a very little water in the 
pan to keep the gravy from burning. Add to the gravy a little 
tomato and butter, and thicken. Pour this over the meat, or 
serve separately, as you like. Mrs. Charles E. Putney. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

6 tomatoes. 1 cupful bread crumbs or chop- 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. ped meat. 

V2 cupful stock. V2 tablespoonful flour. 

V2 teaspoonful onion juice. Salt, pepper. 

Cut slices from the stem end of the tomatoes. Remove 
the juice and pulp with a spoon, and dredge the inside with 
salt and pepper. Put 1 tablespoonful butter in a frying pan 
and when hot add the bread crumbs. Stir until they are 
brown, then fill the tomatoes with them. Cover the openings 
with fresh crumbs and bits of butter. Bake slowlv half an 



ENTREES, 75 



hour. Fifteen minutes before the tomatoes are done make the 
sauce by putting V2 tablespoonful of butter in frying pan. When 
hot add the flour. Stir until brown and smooth ; then add the 
stock, tomato juice and pulp. Stir until it boils up and add 
salt, pepper and onion juice. Simmer ten minutes, pour the 
sauce around the tomatoes and serve. 

Miss Caroline C. Ross. 

SWEETBRBAD5. 

Soak them in cold water one or two hours ; remove the 
pipes and membranes. Cook them in boiling salted water, with 
1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, twenty minutes and plunge into 
cold water to harden ; then they may be cooked in either of the 
following ways : 

Larded— Lard and bake until brown, basting with brown 
stock. Serve with peas. 

Fried — Roll in fine bread crumbs, eggs, a second time in 
crumbs; fry in deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Saute — 1 sweetbread, salt, pepper, 1 tablespoonful butter, 
1 tablespoonful flour. Split and cut the sweetbread into four 
pieces. Season with pepper and salt. Put the butter and 
flour into a small frying pan; when hot pour in the sweet- 
bread, turn constantly until a light brown; they will fry in 
about eight minutes. Serve with cream sauce or tomato 
sauce. 

En Coquille— Cut 2 sweetbreads into tiny cubes. Make 

a white sauce with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 3 tablespoon- 

fuls of flour, V2 teaspoonful of salt, V2 saltspoonful pepper and 

1 V2 cups of hot milk. Mix the sauce with the sweetbreads and 

put in buttered scallop shells. Be careful not to fill them too 

full. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs and brown in the 

oven. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 pint canned tomatoes. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

4 cloves. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

A small slice of onion. 



76 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Cook the tomato, onion, cloves, ten minutes. Brown the 
butter in a small saucepan and add the flour, then tomatoes, 
a little at a time. Cook two minutes. Season with pepper 
and salt and rub through a strainer fine enough to keep back 
the seeds. 

BAKED BEANS No. 1. 

1 quart pea beans. % pound pork. 

% cup molasses. V2 tablespoonful salt. 

% teaspoonful soda. 

Soak the beans over night in cold water, put the soda 
and beans into water and let them boil until they begin 
to crack. Drain off the water and rinse with cold water. 
Wash the pork in hot water and cut the rind into 
V2 inch strips ; place in the bottom of the bean pot ; put in the 
beans, molasses, salt and water, enough to cover them. Bake 
all day in a slow oven, adding more water as needed. 

BAKED BEANS No. 2. 

Pick over and wash 1 qu^rt of beans, put into an earthen 
bowl; pour over 2 quarts cold water; add 1 teaspoonful salt; 
let stand over night; in the morning wash in 2 waters; put 
into kettle of cold water; boil slowly 1 hour; put into bean 
pot; add V2 cup molasses, V2 pound salt pork, 1 teaspoonful 
salt ; fill up with boiling water ; cover and put in oven, not too 
hot; bake 24 hours, filling up the pot as is needed with boiling 
water. Josephine. 

'• I am still of the opinion that I paid an unrea- 
sonable price for that plate of baked beans." 

— Telegram. 



VEGETABLES. 



MRS. GEO. M. HOWE. 




BOILED NEW POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes carefully so as not to break the skin. 
Pare once around each potato the longest way. Put them 
into boiling water and let them boil till you can pierce them 
easily with a fork. Drain the water from the kettle and raise 
the lid and set them on the stove to dry for a minute. Remove 
the rest of the skin. Put them in a warm covered dish, and 
carry to the table. 

BOILED OLD POTATOES. 

Remove all the skin of the potatoes. Soak in cold water 
several hours. Putl tablespoonful of salt into enough boiling 
water to cover them. Boil until done. Drain all the water 
from the kettle, raise the lid and put on the stove to dry. 
Take into a heated covered dish and serve at once. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare the potatoes as for boiled old potatoes. Mash in 
the kettle in which they were boiled, season well with butter, 
salt and pepper, and cream if you have it, if not use a littk 



78 COOKERY CRAFT. 



heated milk to moisten. Use a wire masher as it makes them 
light and creamy. Pour into a well heated dish. Do not 
smooth them over as that will make them heavy. 

POTATO BALLS. 

One pint of hot mashed potatoes highly seasoned with salt, 
pepper, celery salt, chopped pai sley and butter. Moisten with a 
little cream. Beat 1 ^gg light, add part of it to the potatoes. 
Shape into smooth round balls. Placed on a buttered tin, 
brush over with the remainder of the figg and bake until 
brown. The parsley may be omitted. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes with a brush, taking care not to break 
the skin. Dry them before putting into the oven. Allow 
three-fourths of an hour for them to bake. As soon as they 
are done pinch them to break the skin and allow the steam to 
escape. Serve in an open dish without covering. 

"The axiom of the Azamazulu is that a continually 
stuffed body cannot see invisible things." — Tyler ^ 
Primitive Culture. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake potatoes of medium size, cut a piece of the skin from 
the flat side of the potatoes. Remove the inside, mash, and 
mix with it any highly seasoned meat, chopped fine, also a 
seasoning of butter, salt and pepper. Fill the skins rounding 
full. Set in the oven to brown over. If preferred leave out the 
meat. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Put in your frying pan V2 cup of cream and V2 cup of milk. 
Let them come to a boil, stir 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch into 
2 tablespoonfuls of cold milk, and pour into your boiling 
cream, to thicken it. Let it boil one minute. Season well 
with butter, salt and pepper, then add your cold boiled 
potatoes which have previously been cut into dice. Let them 
cook three or four minutes and they are ready for the table. 



VEGETABLES. 79 



LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut 1 pint of cold boiled potatoes into dice and season 
with salt and pepper. Fry 1 tablespoonful of minced onion in 
1 tablespoonful of butter until it is a light brown, add the 
potatoes and stir with a fork until all the butter is absorbed, 
being careful not to break them. Add a tablespoonful of chop- 
ped parsley and serve hot. The parsley may be omitted. 

FRENCH PRIED POTATOES. 

Pare raw potatoes and cut in long narrow strips. Let 
soak an hour or more in cold salted water. Drain well and fry 
in deep, hot lard until a nice brown. Dredge with salt. 

Miss Flora Johnson. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Four large potatoes sliced very thin ; let remain in cold 
water an hour or more, then drain and dry between two 
towels. Drop into a kettle of smoking hot lard, a large 
handml at a time ; stir with a fork to prevent them from 
adhering to the kettle or to each other. Remove with a 
strainer as soon as they are a light brown, and sprinkle with 
salt. Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Sweet potatoes should be baked or boiled the same as 
Irish potatoes except the skin should never be cut until after 
they are cooked. In serving baked sweet potatoes, always 
cover the dish with a napkin, or they may be rolled separately 
in doilies, and one laid beside each plate. 

WARMED OVER SWEET POTATOES. 

Take a small pudding dish or a round cake tin and into it 

put 1 tablespoonful of butter. When melted put in 1 cup of 

cold sliced sweet potatoes, sprinkle over them 2 tablespoonfuls 

of sugar, add V2 cup of hot water. Put into the oven and bake 

until the potatoes begin to brown. 

Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 



80 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SUMMER SQUASH. 

Wash and cut into convenient pieces, leaving both skin and 
seeds. Boil in salted water one-half hour, or until it will pierce 
easily with a fork. Place a strainer cloth over the colander, 
pick the squash into it, press out all the water, put into a dish 
and season with butter, salt and pepper. 
WINTER SQUASH. 

Pare the squash and with a spoon scrape out the seeds 
and steam until soft. If the shell be hard, split the squash, 
scrape out the seeds and steam until done ; then remove all 
the soft part from the shell; mash and season with butter, 
salt and a little sugar. If the squash be dry add a spoonful 
of cream. Squash may be baked in the shell and then seasoned 
as above. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel the onions and drop into a kettle of boiling salted 
water; boil ten minutes and change the water; boil half an 
hour or until tender; drain in a colander and press all the 
water out; put into a dish and season well with butter, salt, 
pepper and a teaspoonful of thick sweet cream. 

*' That this substance exists we know because the 
science of psychology by logical necessity lands us on 
the platform of ontology;" — we also know it by the 
sense of smell. 

CREAMED ONIONS. 

Boil onions till tender; then lay them in an earthen bak- 
ing dish ; cover with drawn butter gravy ; over the whole place 
a layer of bread or cracker crumbs moistened with milk and 
seasoned with pepper and salt; add bits of butter; bake till 
crust is brown. Mrs. Geo. W. Kyburg. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over them to remove the skins ; cut in 
slices and stew in an agate kettle fifteen minutes; add salt, 
butter, pepper and sugar, if desired, or vinegar if preferred ; 
a little onion is an addition. 



VEGETABLES. 81 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut from the steiu end, with a sharp knife, a thin slice ; 
make a little hole in the tomatoes; put into each a piece of 
butter, some salt and pepper; put on a tin plate and bake twen- 
ty minutes; a little onion juice in each tomato is an addition. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

To be prepared as scalloped oysters, only put in water 
instead of milk, and sprinkle a little sugar on each layer of 
tomatoes. Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

BOILED SWEET CORN No. 1. 

Remove the husks and silk fibre; put into boiling water 
and cook from ten to fifteen minutes. Have a brisk fire so 
that it will commence boiling as soon as plunged into the water. 
Com on the cob cannot be boiled in less than ten minutes and 
never should be boiled more than fifteen minutes. 

BOILED SWEET CORN No. 2. 

Cut through each row of kernels with a sharp knife, then 
with the back of the knife scrape from the cob. Put 1 cup of 
boiling water into your stew pan to 1 pint of corn. Let it 
boil five minutes, stirring constantly to prevent sticking to the 
pan. Season well with butter, salt, pepper and cream. 

QREEN CORN OYSTERS. 

Cut through each row of kernels with a sharp knife, then 
with the back of the knife press out the pulp, leaving the hull 
on the cob. To 1 pint of corn pulp add 1 Qgg beaten well, V2 
teaspoonful of salt, V2 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 tablespoonful 
of milk and 2 tablespoonfuls flour, or sufficient flour to make 
a thin batter. Put a tablespoonful in a place on a well 
heated and buttered griddle, fry until browned well on each 
side. When taken from the griddle butter them well and serve 
immediately. 



82 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SHELLED BEANS. 

One-third of a pound of salt pork, 1 quart of shelled beans. 
Cut the pork into strips, put into the kettle and boil one-half 
hour. Add the beans and boil until tender. Let the water boil 
nearly away. Add salt a few minutes before taking them from 
the kettle. Season them with butter, and cream if you like. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Succotash is made by mixing equal quantities of shelled 
beans and corn cut from the cob. Cook the beans by the rule 
given for shelled beans, using one-half the amount of beans and 
pork. Cut the corn from the cobby scoring with a sharp knife 
through each row of kernels, and scrape out with the back of 
the knife, being careful not to get any of the hull. Add the 
corn when the beans are nearly done. Cook ten minutes. 
Season with butter, salt, pepper and cream. 

STRING BEANS. 

Remove the strings if there are any, break or cut into inch 
pieces, cook in salted water from two to three hours, drain, 
season with butter, salt, pepper and cream, and serve hot, or 
serve cold seasoned with salt as a salad, using a salad dressing. 

PEAS. 

Wash the pods before shelling and the peas will need no 
washing. Pick over to remove the fine particles. Put them 
into boiling water and let them boil until nearly done, then 
add salt and let the water boil nearly away. Season with but- 
ter, salt and cream. If the peas are a little old, put in a lump 
of soda half the size of a pea and a teaspoonful of sugar when 
you put them on to boil. If to be used as a garnish for lamb, 
cook until the water is nearly out and season with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Select a small firm cabbage, remove the outside leaves, cut 
in quarters and cook in salted boiling water from three to four 



VEGETABLES. 83 



hours. Drain well, chop and season with butter and cream, or 
pour over a drawn butter gravy, and sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs and bake until the crumbs are browned. 

ANOTHER METHOD. 

Chop the cabbage, after removing the outside leaves and 
core, and cook one hour in salted water ; drain in colander and 
season with butter, cream and pepper. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil in well salted water three-quarters of an hour, drain 
thoroughly, put bits of butter and pepper over it and pour 
over a heated thick cream, if you have it, or make a rich cream 
with 1 cup of rich milk, 1 teaspoonful flour, a piece of butter 
half the size of an egg, salt and pepper. Or, after boiling as 
before, place in an earthen baking dish, pour over 1 cup of the 
made cream, grate over some cheese, sprinkle with cracker 
crumbs moistened with butter, put in the oven and brown. 

Cauliflower is also good served as a salad. Boil in strong 
salted water, let it get cold then serve with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

** Herbs and other country messes which the neat- 
handed Phyllis dresses." — Milton. 

SPINACH. 

Wash the spinach very carefully, boil in salted water 
twenty minutes. Drain and chop fine, add 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, V^ cup of sweet cream and a pinch of salt, put in a 
saucepan and cook over a slow fire twent}' minutes, stir con- 
stantly, and serve on slices of thin buttered toast. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash and break into inch pieces ; when it strings in break- 
ing it is too tough to use. Cook in boiling salted water one 
half hour or until done, drain well in a colander. Put into 
the double boiler a piece of butter, 1 cup of cream and some 



84 COOKERY CRAFT. 



salt; when the butter is melted, pour in the asparagus, let 
stand a minute and serve as peas. Or, cook and drain as 
above, toast several slices of bread, pour the asparagus over 
each slice, make a rich cream sauce and pour over the whole. 
Asparagus served with a dressing as a salad is also very 
nice. 

5EA KALE. 

This is one of the finest vegetables for greens. Pick the 
large leaves and full length of the broad white stems, pick over 
carefully and wash. Boil one hour and a half in, well salted 
water, take into the colander to drain. When well drained put 
on a platter and season well with butter and a sprinkling of 
salt. Garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips must be washed thoroughly with a brush. Boil 
in salted water one hour, cut them in halves, if small, or, if 
large, slice through them lengthwise, and fry them brown on a 
well biittered frying pan. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Take cold boiled parsnips and slice crosswise one-eighth of 
an inch thick. Make a rich cream as for creamed potatoes, 
put in your sliced parsnips and let boil three minutes. Serve in 
a well heated nappy. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil parsnips until tender, dip them in water and slip the 
skins off, mash and season well with butter, salt and pepper. 
Shape into small flat oval cakes, roll in flour and fry in butter. 

TURNIPS. 

Boil in salted water (or steam) until tender, mash and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper. Add a sprinkling of sugar 
if you like, or cut into dice and follow the rule for creamed 
parsnips. 



VEGETABLES. S5 



BEETS. 

Wash, but do not trim or break any part of the skin. 
Young beets will cook in an hour, but old beets require a 
longer time. If wlted they never become tender. When cooked 
dip them in a pan of cold water and rub the skins off. Slice 
young beets, sprinkle with sugar, salt and pepper, put bits of 
butter over them, set in the oven for a minute and serve hot. 
Or they may be cut into dice and served with cream, or make a 
rich cream sauce and pour over them, or they may be served 
in vinegar. 



PIES AND PASTRY. 



PIE PASTE NO. 1. 

1 pint flour. 1 cup of butter and lard mixed. 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Mix the baking powder with the flour, then work in half 
the shortening and a little salt, mix with icewater. For the 
top crust roll out the paste, spread on the rest of shortening, 
sprinkle with flour. This quantity makes two pies. 

Mrs. p. D Blodgett. 

pie paste no. 2. 

4V^ tablespoonfuls lard. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

214 tablespoonfuls warm V2 teaspoonful salt. 

water. V2 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1 tablespoonful sour cream or milk. 
Flour to roll out. For one pie. 

Mrs. Wii,liam Johnson. 

PIE PASTE NO. 3. 

For four pies take 6 cups flour and I scant cup of lard. 
Chop the two together with a knife, add a little salt and 1 
teaspoonful of cream tartar. Dissolve V2 teaspoonful soda in 



PIES AND PASTRY. 87 



a little water, then moisten the whole with cold water. When 
the upper crust is rolled out spread lard over it, then sift on 
flour and press it down with the palm of the hand. Put on 
flour so it will not be sticky, then mark and put it on the pie 
and hold under the cold water faucet until the water has 
covered the pie, then bake. S. A. M. 

TART SHELLS. 

V2 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V2 cup lard. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

3 tablespoonfuls cold water. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. White of 1 egg. 

Mix as hard as pie crust. 

BANBERRIES. 

2 cups raisins, seeded and 1 cup powdered sugar, 
chopped. 1 lemon. 

^ egg- 
Grate outside of lemon ; chop the rest fine. Cut rounds of 
nice pastry ; fill half full with the mixture and cover like turn- 
overs, pinching the edges carefully. Place on a tin and bake a 
delicate brown. 

AMBER TARTS. 

Line patty pans with puff" paste and bake. Next fill them 
half full of any kind of fruit jam. Beat the whites of 2 eggs 
to a stiff" froth. Add 8 drops of the essence of almond and 
a very little sugar; put this over the jam and»return to oven 
and brown slightly. 

CREAM TARTS. 

Fill tart shells with whipped cream, then drop a teaspoon- 
ful of jelly on the top of each. Mrs. P. D. Blodgett. 

" Friends, this is an age of inquiry. Can any one 
tell >yho first imprisoned our luscious fruits in a paste 
of grease and flour, baptized the thing in fire, and 
named it pie .? " — Home Life in Twee nit. 



88 COOKERY CRAFT. 



APPLE PIE. 

Choose nice tart apples; pare, quarter, core and slice. 
Line a pie plate with good paste. Lay the apples evenly on 
them, cover with a scant cup of sugar, put bits of butter over 
sugar, and a little nutmeg or cinnamon. Cover with top crust 
and bake slowly twenty minutes. 

FROSTED APPLE PIE. 

6 medium-sized apples, steamed and sifted. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Sweeten to taste, flavor with lemon extract. Bake with 
one crust. When the pie is baked and partially cool, frost 
with the whites of 2 eggs and a little sugar. Return to 
oven and brown slightly. Mrs. J. B. Braley. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Stew the berries and sweeten. Pour into pie plates lined 
with good paste; put bits of butter on top; dredge with flour ; 
cover with top crust. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

1 pint sifted pumpkin. • 1 cup sugar. 

1 pint cream. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

If milk is used put in butter the size of an egg. 

Mrs. p. D. Blodgett. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

1 cup chopped rhubarb. 1 egg. 

1 cup sugar. Butter the size of a walnut. 

Bake with two crusts. 

CIDER PIE. 

4 tablespoonfuls boiled cider. 1 cup sugar. 
1 tablespoonful corn starch. 1 egg. 

5 tablespoonfuls of water. • Flavor with lemon. 

Bake without a cover and frost. 

Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 



PIES AND PASTRY. 89 



"They don*t make pies as they used to when I 
was a boy." — Harriot. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. 

1 quart milk. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup cocoanut. Yolks of 5 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful corn starcli. Salt to taste. 

Use whites of eggs for frosting or meringue. Makes two 
pies. D. L. W. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

2 tablespoonfuls cocoanut. 2 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 pint milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. Butter the size of a walnut. 

Cook the cocoanut in milk slowly ; add sugar and yolks of 
eggs well beaten together; next the cornstarch with a little 
cold milk. Line a pie plate with crust and bake, after which 
fill with the above and frost with the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Spread on pie and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and cocoanut. Set in the oven and brown 
slightly. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

2 pounds fruit. 1 pound sugar. 

Stew as for sauce. Pour into plates lined with paste. Put 
in bits of butter. Cover with strips of paste and bake. 

CREAM PIE. 

2 cups milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

V2 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

Flavor with vanilla. 

Stir sugar and butter to a cream; add the eggs well 
beaten. Bake with one crust. Mrs. P. D. Blodgett. 

"There are more things in heaven and earth, 
Horatio, 
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy." — i7a/n/et. 



^0 COOKBR^ CRAPT. 



MINCE PIE. 

2 cups meat. 2 cups raisins. 

3 cups maple sugar. 6 cups apple. 

1 cup boiled cider. 2 cups pot liquor. 

1 cup chopped suet. Vi cup sweet pickle juice. 

4 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 teaspoonful allspice. 
4 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 2 teaspoonfuls cloves. 

Mix all thoroughly together and let it cook slowly four 
hours. Mrs. Esther Carr. 

CUSTARD PIE NO. 1. 

1 cup milk. V2 cup cream. 

Vz cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

Boil the milk, beat the eggs light, stir into boiling milk, 
then add cream and bake in deep plate. 

Mrs. a. C. Babbitt. 

"And she's wise as she is winsome, and as good 
as she is wise, 
And, besides her other graces, she is good at baking 
pies." 

CUSTARD PIE NO. 2. 

A good custard pie can be made from the yolks of 4 eggs 
when the whites have been used for cake. Add % cup sugar 
and 2 cups milk. Great care must be used not to bake too 
much. Mrs. A. D. Nelson. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

1 cup bread crumbs. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup vinegar. V2 cup butter. 

V2 cup molasses. % cup raisins. 



All kinds of spice. 



Mrs. Goodall. 

CURRANT PIE. 



1 cup mashed currants. 1 tablespoonful water. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Bake with one crust and frost with the whites of eggs 
lightly beaten with a little powdered sugar. 



PIES AND PASTRY. 91 

SQUASH PIE. 

V2 cup of squash. V2 cup sugar. 

1 egg. A piece of butter size of a 

A bit of salt and pepper. walnut. 

1 cup milk. A little allspice and cinnamon. 

Bake with one crust. Mrs. Martha Smith. 

PEACH PIE. 

Pare and stone the fruit. Cut in small pieces. Line a 
plate with paste, put in peaches, cover with a scant cup of 
sugar, put bits of butter over the top, dredge with flour, then 
put on top crust and bake. 

RAISIN PIE. 

1 cup raisins. Juice of 1 lemon. 

1 cup sugar. Butter the size of a walnut. 

Boil and stone the raisins, then chop and add butter. 
Bake with two crusts. 

ORANGE PIE. 

1 cup sugar. Pulp and juice of 2 oranges. 

1 cup milk. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Stir the eggs with sugar and a little of the grated orange 
peel and a tablespoonful of butter; add milk, and lastly the 
orange. Bake with one crust. After the pie is cool spread the 
whites of eggs well beaten, with a little sugar on top. Return 
to oven and brown slightly. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 
1 pint of boiled and mashed 1 cup milk. 

potatoes. V2 cup butter. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

3 eggs. 

Pour the milk on potato and put through a colander. 
Beat the yolks of eggs light, cream the butter and sugar ; add 
vanilla, and, last of all, the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake with crust, and when done sprinkle sugar over 
top. 



92 COOKERY CRAFT. 



"A more convenient, labor-saving medium than 
this excellent compilation of Dates can scarcely be 
found in any language." — iVew York Tribune, Book 
Review. 

DATE PIE. 

Simmer slowly 1 pound of dates in milk to cover them. 
Sift them through a sieve to free them from the stones ; add V2 
cup of sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, a little cinnamon, and 1 pint 
of boiled milk. Bake in deep lined plates as for custard pie. 
Whip the whites and frost, having flavored the frosting with 
vanilla. Brown nicely. This is sufficient for two pies. 

Mrs. R. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



MRS. ANNIE T. NORTON. 




FEATHER CAKE FOR DE55ERT. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

1 egg, ' 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

V2 cup sweet milk. IV^ cups flour. 

Flavor with nutmeg and eat warm with whipped cream. 

aiNQERBREAD FOR DESSERT. 

V2 cup butter and V2 cup sour milk. 

V2 cup sugar beaten together. 2 scant cups flour. 
y2 cup molasses. 1 even teaspoonful soda. 

Serve warm with whipped cream. 

Mrs. p. D. Blodgett. 

SWEET SHORT CAKE. 

Butter about the size of a small eggy and % cup of sugar 
beaten together for eight or ten minutes, then break in 1 egg 
and beat three minutes. Dissolve 1 small teaspoonful of soda 
in V^ cup of milk and 2 small teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
sifted with IV^ cups flour. Do not make the batter stiff", but 
quite thin. Cook in a quick oven in two jelly tins well buttered. 
Spread with strawberries same as plain short cake. 

Mrs. Hattie Blodgett Belknap. 



94 COOKERY CRAFT. 



ALL THE YEAR ROUND PUDDING. 

Line a pie dish with paste, spread on 3 ounces of any kind 
of jam, (raspberries the best), then beat well in a basin the 
following: Three ounces bread crumbs, the same of sugar and 
butter, the rind and juice of V2 a large lemon. Add this to the 
pastry and jam and bake one-half hour. 

Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

" A man cannot have a clear mind who refuses 
apple dumpling."— C/ias. Lamb. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

V2 dozen apples. 1 pint flour. 

2 even teaspoonfuls cream tar- 1 even teaspoonful salt. 

tar. Enough water to make a stiff 

1 even teaspoonful soda. batter. 

Pare and core the apples, leaving them whole. Take a 
spoonful of the dough on the kneading board and roll or pat 
with the hands until it is large enough to cover the apple. 
Wrap it around the apple and place on a buttered plate. Pro- 
ceed in like manner with each apple until all are covered. Set 
the plate into the steamer and let it steam from thirty to 
forty minutes, according to size of apples. 

Mrs. Geo. M. Howe. 

" Ever a plain, homely dowdv." — Pepys* Diary. 

PAN DOWDY. 

1 cup brown sugar. 1 cup molasses. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. V2 teaspoonful clove. 
1 saltspoonful allspice. V2 saltspoonful mace. 

Enough tart apples, cored, pared and quartered, to fill a 
three-quart earthen pan. Butter the pan well, put in the 
apples, and stir in the seasoning. Cover it with crust and 
bake as long as you can without burning. When done, take 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 95 

off the crust, break it up in small pieces and mix with the hot 
baked apple. Set all away to grow cold. 

CRUST. 

1 quart flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 scant pint sweet milk. Mrs. Merrill. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

1 quart scalded milk. V& teaspoonful each salt, ginger, 

V2 cup molasses. cinnamon. 

% cup corn meal. Butter size of walnut. 

Add a cup of cold milk just before putting in oven. Bake 
one and one-half hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Goodall. 
fig pudding. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup chopped suet. 

1 pint milk. 3^ cups flour. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. V^ teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 pint figs. 

Pour into buttered mold and steam five hours. Serve with 
Liquid Sauce. Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cup suet, chopped fine. 1 cup sour milk. 

1 cup molasses. 4 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. Salt and spice to taste. 

Steam three hours. One cup raisins improve it. 

Mrs. a. Simpson. 

ENGLISH PUDDING. 

1 cup sour milk. 1 cup raisins. 

% cup chopped pork or V2 cup 3 cups flour. 

butter. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

% cup molasses. 

Steam three hours. Serve with Sour Sauce. 

Mrs. E, E. Carr, 



96 COOKERY CRAFT. 



HEIDELBURQ PUDDING. 

*' The secret of making this, observed the Count, 
has been kept in our family for manj' centuries — taste 
it." — Count of Monte Bent. 

1 cup molasses. 1 cup sweet milk. 

2^ cups flour. 1 cup suet or butter. 

1 cup raisins. 1 ^gg> 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 1 teaspoonful each cinnamon 
V2 teaspoonful each cloves and and allspice. 

nutmeg. 
Steam three hours and serve with pudding sauce. 

Mrs. Emma C. Fairbanks. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

I brick loaf bread, cut in slices % teaspoonful cloves. 

thin as a knife. V2 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 pint bowl raisins (stoned). 1 teaspoonful salt. 
^ ^g^s. 4 cups milk. 

3 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 2 cups molasses. 

Butter pan well, lay in alternate layers of bread and 
raisins, (occasionally buttering a slice of bread), until the dish 
is full. Pour on 3 cups of milk and let it stand over night. 
Beat egg, add molasses, spice, and the other cup of milk, and 
pour over the pudding in the morning. Tie a wet cloth over 
the top and put in a kettle of water. Boil five or six hours. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

"On the 12th of May, 1718, James Austin bepfan 
to cook his plum pudding at The Red Lion. It weighed 
1000 pounds. He cooked it 14 days, but before he 
could get it over to The Boar's Head for his guests, 
the hungry Londoners seized and devoured it, while 
the band played ' What lumps of pudding my mother 
gave me.' " — Larwood and Hotten, 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 97 

RICE PUDDINQ No. 1. 

Vn cup rice. 1 quart milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Steam until soft. Add the yolks of 4 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, 1 cup of raisins, stir together. While hot pour in a 
deep dish and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. Beat the whites 
of the eggs and pour over the top. Set in the oven and brown 
a little. Mrs. J. M. Alvord. 

RICE PUDDING No. 2. 

1 cup rice. 1 cup sugar. 
3 pints sweet milk. 5 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls extract of lemon. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Cook the rice in the milk. When it is soft stir in the salt 
and yolks of the eggs. Set in the oven a few minutes. For 
the frosting take whites of the eggs, the sugar and lemon. 
Brown lightly. Mrs. Crawf6rd Ranney. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

1 cup molasses. 3 cups flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup melted butter. A pinch of salt. 

1 cup stoned raisins. V2 teaspoonful each cinnamon, 
V2 cup currants. grated nutmegs and cloves. 

Steam three hours. Equally good without the fruit. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

POOR MAN'S RICE. 

Put 1 quart of sweet milk into a kettle to heat. Take 3 
cups of flour, break 1 egg into it and rub them together. When 
the milk boils, salt to taste, and stir into it the prepared flour. 
To be eaten at once. S. A. Mather. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 

2 eggs. % cup sugar. 

1 pint boiling milk. 2 tablespoonfuls grated choco- 

2 cups bread crumbs. late. 

Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 
8 



98 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CHERRY PUDDINO. 

Mix together 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and water enough for a soft dough. Butter cups and 
drop in a little dough, some stoned cherries, then dough, to half 
fill the cup. Steam one-half hour. Eat with sweetened cream. 

Mrs. Annie T. Horton. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING. 

Two cups of bread flour, with 2 teaspoonfuls Royal bak- 
ing powder, piece of butter size of an egg rubbed in the flour, 
and sweet milk enough to make a thick dough. Stir in 1 pint 
of blueberries, and steam one and one-half hours. Serve with 
cream and maple sugar. Mrs. Henry Albee. 

"Come, give us a taste of your quality." — Hamlet. 
WATERMELON PUDDING. 

1 egg. 2^ cups flour. 

V2 cup sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 cup strawberry juice. 1 large teaspoonful butter. 
V2 teaspoonful salt. 1 cup raisins. 

Mix the baking powder and salt with the flour and stir in 
the raisins. Add the strawberry juice, then stir in the egg and 
sugar, well beaten together, and add the melted butter. Steam 
one and one-half hours. Serve with Savory Sauce. 

Edith E. Ranney. 

SWEET CORN PUDDING. 

12 ears of sweet corn. 1 quart milk. 

2 eggs. V2 cup flour. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. A little salt. 

Draw knife through each row of corn, cutting every kernel ; 
then scrape out the corn, leaving the hulls on the cob. Mix 
this corn with milk, add the eggs, beaten light, with the flour, 
then the sugar and salt. Put in tins one inch and a half thick, 
and bake two hours or longer. To be eaten with butter. 

Mrs. I. J. Robinson, 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 99 

APRICOT PUDDING. 

1 cup vSweet milk. I heaping teaspoonful baking 

1 egg. powder. 

V2 cup flour. 1 heaping tablespoonful butter. 

Put a spoonful of the batter in each cup, then 4 halves of 
canned apricots ; turn the rest of the batter over them ; steam 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve with sugar and whipped 
cream. Mrs. Etta Graham Stanhope. 

SNOW BALL PUDDING. 

V2 cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. Whites of 4 eggs. 

V2 cup milk. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

After the butter is well creamed, put the sugar with it 
gradually. Mix the baking powder and flour and add alter- 
nately with the milk. Then add the whites of eggs beaten stifl*. 
Fill cups half full and steam twent}' minutes or half an hour. 
This amount makes a dozen. When you take them from the 
cups for the table, roll in powdered sugar and cocoanut. 

Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 

** The woman who maketh a good pudding in 
silence is better than she who maketh a tart reply." 

tapioca pudding. 

1 cup tapioca. 1 pint milk or little more. 

4 eggs. IV^ cups sugar. 

Little nutmeg. Little piece butter and salt. 

Put the tapioca in cold water and set on back of stove and 
cook slowly until done. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. H. F. Estabrooks. 
tapioca cream. 
V2 cup tapioca. 1 quart milk. 

V2 cup sugar. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

V2 saltspoonful salt. V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Soak the tapioca in hot water until soft, scald the milk in 
a double boiler, when hot add the tapioca, and cook until 



100 COOKERY CRAFT. 



transparent. Beat the eggs, and sugar, and salt, and add, and 
cook until it thickens like boiled custard ; when cool add the 
flavoring. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 3 
tablespoonfuls sugar, and after beating lay on top of pudding 
and brown in oven. Mrs. C. E. Peck. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDINQ. 

1 pint milk. V2 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 2 tablespoonfuls Baker's choco- 

2 eggs. late melted and boiled with 
Vanilla flavoring. the milk. 

Line a dish with marshmallows, pour custard over them 
while hot, and add the whites of eggs, with 1 tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar. Dot the top with marshmallows. 

Mrs. Henry Albee. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

^ Make a cornstarch pudding with a quart of milk, 3 table- 
spoonfuls cornstarch and 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. When 
done, remove about half, and flavor to taste, and then to that 
remaining in the kettle, add an egg beaten very light, and 4 
tablespoonfuls of chocolate, grated and dissolved in a little 
milk. Put in a mold, alternating the dark and light. Serve 
with whipped cream or boiled custard. 

Mrs. 0. C. Chamberlin. 

BLACKBERRY FLUMMERY. 

Blackberry flummery is made by placing a pint of ripe 
blackberries in a saucepan with a pint of water, let boil slowly 
without stirring for ten minutes. Moisten 2 tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch with cold water, stir into the berries, let thicken, 
take from the fire and add V2 teacup of sugar. When cool, 
serve with sugar and cream. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDINQ. 

One pint water, 3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, whites of 2 or 3 eggs. Let the water be 



PUDDINGS A ND SA UCES. 1 01 

hot in double boiler and thicken with the starch. First wet 
the cornstarch with a little cold water, add the sugar and a 
little salt, cook five minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, and when ready to take from the stove, add the 
beaten whites, stir briskly and pour into a mold to cool. Make 
a custard, using the yolks of the eggs, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, 
1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste and flavor with vanilla. When 
cold pour around the mold on deep dish, or serve separately. 

Sarah Daniel. 

A DISH OF HAPPINESS. 

Take 1 large spoonful of usefulness, I cup of love for mother, 
another cup of love for your little brothers and sisters, a whole 
pound of wishes to make others happy, and a very small tea- 
spoonful of wishing to be happy yourself; mix it all up together, 
and see if it doesn't make the nicest kind of an afternoon for 
anybody. Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

V& box gelatine. Whites of 3 eggs, 

V2 cup sugar. 1 coffee cup cold water. 

Juice of 1 large lemon. 

Soak the gelatine one hour in the cup of cold water, then 
set on stove until dissolved. When cooled to the consistency 
of cream, beat until white and foamy. Have the whites of the 
eggs beaten light, and add to the gelatine, then the sugar, 
and lastly the lemon juice. Set in acold place to harden. 

custard for above. 

1 pint milk. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

V2 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Scald the milk, add the eggs and sugar beaten light, steam 
until it thickens, then add vanilla. Mrs. Paul S. Carter. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

V2 box gelatine, soaked one hour in V2 pint milk. 

Boil 1 quart of milk, to this add the dissolved gelatine and 



102 COOKERY CRAFT. 



let it boil, then add the yolks of 8 eggs. Beat the whites of the 
same to a stiff froth and add to the custard after takingit from 
the stove, stirring it in thoroughly. Season with vanilla, and 
add a little salt. A. M. P. 

PUDDING. 

1 pint sweet milk. 2 eggs. 

Vi cup sugar. V^ box gelatine. 

1 dessertspoonful vanilla. 

Cover gelatine with cold water, stand one hour. Beat 
sugar and yolks of eggs well together, add to milk heated in 
steamer, stir until soft custard, stir in gelatine and flavoring. 
When custard is cold, but not hard, add the whites of eggs 
beaten light. Beat all together until foamy. Harden in mold. 
Serve with whipped cream. H. P. 

"Requiring, with various tastes, things very 
unlike."— Horace. 

SAVORY PUDDING SAUCE. 

1 cup sweet milk. 1 large tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 1 cup sugar. 

Salt. White of 1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Boil the milk and thicken with flour, worked smooth in a 
little cold water. Cook five minutes, and add a little salt. 
Cream the butter and sugar and add the vanilla, beat into the 
cool thickened milk, then gradually stir in the beaten white of 
the egg. Edith E. Ranney. 

FROTH SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup boiling water. 

V^ cup butter beaten to a cream. Juice of 1 lemon. 

1 Qgg beaten to a froth. Mrs. O. C. Chamberlin. 

QUICK PUDDING SAUCE. 

Use 1 cupful of any fruit juice, fresh or canned, add Ms cup- 



PUDDINGS AMD SAVCBS. 103 



ful sugar and 1 teaspoonful cornstarch. Boil five minutes and 
strain. Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 

PUDDINQ SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar. Butter the size of an ^gg. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Mix these well together, pour in 1 cup of boiling water 
and let boil until thick enough, then put in enough vinegar and 
nutmeg to flavor well. Mrs. S. J. Burbank. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

Vi cup butter. 3 tablespoonfuls cream or milk. 

V2 cup powdered sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Wash the butter and cream it. Add slowly the powdered 
sugar, then add the cream, a very little at a time, also the 
vanilla. Place where it will be cold until you serve the pud- 
ding. Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 

" The good things of life are not to be had singly, 
but come to us with a mixture." — Cbas. Lamb. 

GOLDEN SAUCE. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 egg. 

1 gill powdered sugar. V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually beat into it the 
powdered sugar, next add the yolk of the egg and beat well. 
Beat the white of the egg to a stifl" froth, and stir into the 
sauce. Add the flavor. Place the bowl in a pan of boiling 
water and cook four minutes, stirring constantly. 

Miss Eva S. Burke. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 
Whites of 2 eggs (beaten), add 1 cup sugar and beat, add 
the yolks well beaten, and a cup of cream. A. T. H. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 teacup sugar. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teacup boiling water. 



104 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Beat ^gg and sugar thoroughly together. Make a thick 
boiling starch with the flour, water and salt and pour into the 
well beaten egg and sugar. Flavor with vanilla. Tobeserved 
with Apple Dumplings or Cottage Pudding. 

Mrs. George M. Howe. 

FAIRY BUTTER. 

1 cup white sugar. White of 1 tgg. 

V2 cup butter. 

Beat all together until light and creamy. Flavor with 
nutmeg. A. T. H. 

50UR SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tgg (well beaten). 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Add ^ cup hot water, stirring 
(creamed). all the time. 

V2 cup vinegar. A. T. H. 

SAUCE. 

1 cup sweet cream. 4 tablespoonfuls of maple or 

Little nutmeg. granulated sugar. 

L. C. Mather. 

SAUCE. 

1 ^gg. 1 cup white sugar, (well 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. beaten together). 

Just before serving add 1 cup of hot sweet milk. Stir well. 

Gorilla C. 

"II n'est Sauce que d'appetit." 

HARD SAUCE FOR 5TEAMED PUDDING. 

1 cup powdered sugar. White of 1 egg. 

V2 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Beat the white of the egg 
very stiff and whip in lightly. Add the vanilla. Heap on a 
pretty dish roughly and set on the ice an hour before serving. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 105 

SAUCE FOR SNOW PUDDING. 

Beat together the yolks of 6 eggs and ¥2 cup sugar, add to 
this 2 tablespoonfuls milk and V2 teaspoonful salt. Put 1 pint 
milk into a double boiler, let it come to a boil and then stir in 
the eggs. Stir this two minutes, then take off and set in ice 
water. Flavor with vanilla. Mrs. J. W. Balch. 



Creams, Sherbets, Fancy Dishes. 



Miss Mabel Fairbanks. 




RASPBERRY SPONGE. 

1 quart raspberries. 1 cup sugar. 

V^ package gelatine. Whites of 4 eggs. 

IV^ cups water. Juice of 1 lemon. 

Soak the gelatine in V2 cup of the water until soft. Wash 
the raspberries and add half the sugar to them. Boil the 
remainder of the sugar and water gently twenty minutes. 
Rub the raspberries through a sieve. Add the gelatine to the 
boiling syrup and take from the lire immediately ; then add the 
raspberry juice. Place in a pan of ice water and beat five 
minutes, add the whites of the eggs and beat until the mixture 
begins to thicken. Pour into molds and set away to harden. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Mrs. Jonathan Ross. 



CREAMS, SHERBETS, FANCY D/SHES. 107 



"In this inconvertability we^ neither acquire the 
functions of what we eat, nor impart our functions to 
what eats us — it is not likely, e. g., that a sponge 
would be to the stomach of Mr. Huxley anything 
more than Mr. Huxley would be to the stomach of a 
sponge." — Sctenti£c Sophisms, 576. 

PEACH TAPIOCA. 

Drain 1 can of peaches, sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
let stand one hour. To the syrup add enough water to make 
3 cups. Boil and add 1^ cups pearl tapioca, 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar and 1 saltspoonful salt, and cook until the tapioca is 
transparent. Line a mold with the sections of peaches, pour 
in the tapioca and bake in a pan of hot water thirty minutes. 
Cool and serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 
Two tablespoonfuls of gelatine, added when to be served cold, 
will make it keep its shape. Miss Mabel Fairbanks. 

CHARLOTTE RU5SE. 

1 pint cream. V2 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. Sponge cake. 

Mix the cream, vanilla and sugar. Place the bowl in ice 
water, and when chilled whip to a stiff froth, and skim off the 
whip into a sieve. Drain aj\d whig again that which has 
drained through. When nearly all whipped, line a glass dish 
with sponge cake or lady fingers, fill with the cream, garnish 
with cubes of any bright jelly and keep on ice until ready to 
serve. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

Vs box Cox*s gelatine. 1 cup orange juice. 

Vs cup cold water. 1 lemon. 

Va cup boiling water. Whites of 3 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. 

Dissolve gelatine in the cold water, then add the boiling 
water with the sugar, orange juice and some of the pulp, and 
the juice of the lemon. Bring just to a boil, remove from the 



lOS COOKERY CRAFT. 



fire and when quite cold and nearly stiff, beat in the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat all together well and 
keep on ice until nearly time to serve; then pile up in the center 
of a dish lined with lady fingers or thin slices of sponge cake. 

Mrs. George W. Kyburg. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE. 

Remove the whip froml pint of cream and drain. Soak V4. 
box gelatine in ^ cup cream fifteen minutes and dissolve in Vs 
cup hot cream. A.dd Vs cup powdered sugar, IV^ squares of 
Baker's chocolate melted and cooked until smooth with Vs cup 
sugar and 3 tablespoonfuls hot water. Stir until it thickens 
slightly, when the whip should be carefully folded in ; add 1 
teaspoonful vanilla. Line a mold with lady fingers placed' 
about one-fourth inch apart, turn in the mixture and chill. 
This amount of charlotte will serve six or eight people. 

M. Fairbanks. 

COFFEE SPANISH CREAM. 

V2 pint milk. 5 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

V2 pint strong coffee. 3 eggs. 

V2 box gelatine. 

Put milk and gelatine in a double boiler and heat together 
until gelatine is dissolved ; then add coffee which has been 
strained and allowed to settle until perfectly clear ; then add 
yolks of eggs well beaten with sugar. Cook until it thickens, 
which may be fifteen minutes if the boiler is an earthen one; 
then remove from the fire and add the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth. Beat all together, flavor with vanilla and set 
on ice to cool. Serve with cream and sugar. This must be 
made early in the morning for a dessert, and it is better to 
make it the day before it is wanted. 

Mrs. Henry G. Ely. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Cut Up 4 oranges into small pieces and sprinkle with sugar. 
Make a thin custard, using 1 pint milk, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls 



CREAMS, S HER BETS, FANCY DISHES. 109 

sugar and 1 teaspoonful cornstarch. When cold pour over the 
oranges and garnish with whipped cream. Keep in a cool 
place until ready to serve. Mrs. H. C. Bond. 

Or, make a thicker custard, and in place of whipped cream 
make a meringue of the whites of 3 eggs and 3 teaspoonfuls 
sugar, spread over the custard and just brown in the oven. 

LEMON JELLY AND STRAWBERRIES. 

Make lemon jelly with gelatine and pour into cups, filling 
them half full of jelly. Then fill up with strawberries or any 
other fruit. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. p. D. Blodgett. 

blanc manqe. 

Dissolve V^ box gelatine in Vz pint milk (over the teakettle.) 
While that is cooling whip 1 pint cream, add 1 cup sugar; fla- 
vor to taste; add the cooled milk and pour into a mold. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

"There were moundsoffi/o'mon/e, also custard, so me 
of the indolent fluid sort; others firm, in which every 
stroke of the spoon left a smooth, conchoidal surface 
like the fracture of chalcedony." — Holmes, 

APPLE SNOW. 

Stew 3 large tart apples, cored and quartered but not 
pared, drain and rub through a sieve. Beat the whites of 3 
eggs stiff, add V2 cup fine granulated or pulverized sugar and 
beat again. Add the apple and beat till like snow. Pile light- 
ly *in a glass dish, garnish with jelly and serve with a custard 
made as follows: 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Scald 1 pint milk. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar and 1 saltspoonful salt and beat well. Pour 
part of hot milk upon the eggs and when well mixed pour back 
into double boiler and stir constantly till smooth and thick 



110 COOKERY CRAFT. 



like cream. Strain and when cool add V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. R. p. Fairbanks. 

SNOWBALL CUSTARD. 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs stiff; make a little sweet, and 
boil in 1 pint milk, dipping them into the boiling milk in table- 
spoonfuls. As they rise, turn them and when done put into a 
glass dish. Then put the beaten yolks with 3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar into the milk. Stir until it thickens, remove from the 
fire and flavor with lemon or vanilla. Turn this custard 
around the white balls in the glass dish. 

Annette Mather. 

ICE CREAM. 

W2 quarts milk. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. 

V2 pint cream. , 2 eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in V2 pint cold milk ; heat the remainder 
of the milk and add the gelatine and yolks of eggs. When cool 
add the whites of the eggs well beaten and the cream, and any 
flavor desired. This will make 2 quarts. More cream can be 
used if desired. Mrs. Henry R. Albee. 

'* In this the appetite is never satisfied except by 
most successful exertion of the faculties of research." 

—Argyle on Mind. 

PEACH ICE CREAM No. 1. 

One pint of peaches run through a sieve and sweetened to 
taste; 1 pint cream, 1 pint milk sweetened, whites of 2 eggs 
beaten stiff. Put milk and cream in the freezer; when it sets 
add peaches and freeze five minutes ; add the whites of eggs 
and freeze hard. Mrs. Pearl D. Blodgett. 

PEACH ICE CREAM No. 2. 

Take a pint of canned peaches, drain off the juice, cut up 
the fruit into small pieces and replace in the juice to which a 
pint of water has been added. Add 1 quart of cream and 
sweeten to taste. Freeze at once. Other fruit can be used in 



CREAMS. SHERBETS. FANC Y DISHES. Ill 

place of the peaches. Strawberries are especially delicious. If 
the cream is not very rich, milk can be substituted for the 
water. Mrs. Lyman P. Wood. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

One pint cream, 1 pint milk, yolks of 6 e^gs beaten well with 

2 cups sugar. Add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with 

3 sliced bananas. Put in freezer and partly freeze, then add 2 
more sliced bananas, 1 tablespoonful vanilla and freeze hard. 
This makes 1 gallon. Mrs. Ernest A. Blodgett. 

MILK SHERBET. 

One quart milk, 1 pint sugar, full measure, 3 lemons. Mix 
lemon juice and sugar and let it stand. Chill the milk and 
just before freezing add the sugar and lemon. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Soak 1 tablespoonful gelatine in 1 cup cold water ten min- 
utes. Add 1 cup boiling water and when dissolved add 1 pint 
sugar, 1 pint cold water and the juice of 5 or 6 lemons. 
Strain when the sugar is dissolved and freeze. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Make the same as lemon sherbet, using oranges in place of 
lemons. Or a sherbet of a lovely color can be made by using 
blood red oranges. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Two medium sized pineapples, 1^ quarts water,l pint sugar. 
After removing outer scales of pineapple, pare until clear fruit 
is reached, then grate to the core. Add to the cold water the 
second paring and the core cut into inch pieces and boil long 
enough to extract the strength. Strain, add sugar and boil 
five minutes longer. When cool add grated fruit and freeze. 

Mrs. Harvlin Paddock. 

*'0h, bother such a cook book! I've been all 
through ittwict,an' it doant give no fancy dishes wot 
kin be made out of bread and water."— L/7e. 



Cookies and Small Cakes. 



MRS. ABIJAH SMITH. 




V^ 



** At Athens the women were permitted to eat 
cakes made of sesame and honey on theNeesteia of the 
third day of the Thesmophoria. "—Hncjc. Britan. 



V2 cup sugar. 
W, cup butter. 

V2 cup molasses. 



NEW YQRK GINQERBREAD. 

V2 cup sour milk. 
V2 teaspoonful soda. 
V2 teaspoonful ginger. 
IV^ cups flour. 
Mrs. Gillian Webster Dean. 



BAKER'S GINQERBREAD. 

1 teaspoonful pulverized alum. 
1 large teaspoonful soda. 
1 large teaspoonful ginger. 



1 cup sugar. 
V2 cup butter. 
1 cup molasses. 
1 cup cold water. 

Cream butter and sugar, and add the molasses. Dissolve 
alum in one-half the cold water, and soda in the other. Make 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 113 



very soft, roll out one-half inch thick, cut in squares, crease 
the tops and bake quickly. Plan to just fill the baking pan 
with the squares. Mrs. Henry G. Ely. 

Mrs. E. E. Carr. 

SOFT QINQERBRBAD No. 1. 

1 egg. V2 teaspoonful ginger. 

'V2 cup sugar (scant). 1 teaspoonful soda (scant). 

H cup shortening. IV^ cups flour. 

Vz cup molasses. Pinch of salt. 
V2 cup boiling water. 

Bake in two inch tins. Mrs. Lulu Fenno Woolson. 

SOFT QINQERBREAD No. 2. 

2 cups flour. V2 teaspoonful salt. 
V2 teaspoonful ginger. 1 coffee cup molasses. 
Butter size of a walnut. 

Mix salt and ginger in flour. Melt butter and stir into the 
molasses. One teaspoonful soda dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls 
warm water, and stir into the molasses. Then stir the 
molasses into the flour while it is foaming. 

Mrs. E. Bowker. 

soft qinqerbread no. 3. 

1 cup molasses. Vi teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful soda. Butter size of an Eng. walnut. 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

Pour upon this V2 cup boiling water, add 2 cups flour and 
beat thoroughly. Then stir in 1 well beaten egg. Bake in a 
thin sheet. Mrs. A. D. Nelson. 

QINQERBREAD No. 1. 

1 tgg. 2% cups flour. 

% cup butter, or V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup sour cream. 1 teaspoonful ginger. 

1 cup molasses. Bit of salt. 

Mrs. W. W. Thayer. 



114 COOKERY CRAFT. 



QINQERBREAD No. 2. 

1 cup molasses (boiled). 1 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 

1 ^gg (well beaten). 2 cups flour. 

Add ^gg and butter while warm and beat well. 

Mrs. Henry E. Byron. 

QINOER SNAPS-No. 1. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup water. 

1 cup butter. % teaspoonful ginger. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

Flour to roll out as hard as possible. Roll very thin and 
cut in squares. Mrs. Abijah Smith. 

QINQER SNAPS No. 2. 

1 ^gg. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful ginger. 

V2 cup butter. V2 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

V2 cup molasses. Flour to roll. 

Mrs. Henry E. Byron. 

OINQER SNAPS FOR CHILDREN. 

1 cup molasses, boiled and 1 teaspoonful soda. 

cooled. 1 teaspoonful ginger. 

1 tgg. A little salt. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Flour to roll without sticking to board. Roll thin. 

Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

QINQER DROP CAKES. 

3 eggs. 1 cup lard. 

1 cup baking molasses. 1 cup brown sugar. 

1 large tablespoonful ginger. 1 tablespoonful baking powder 
5 cups unsifted flour. dissolved in 1 cup boiling 

water. 
Drop tablespoonfuls of this mixture into a slightly greased 
dripping pan, about three inches apart. 

Mrs. F. a. Tifft. 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 115 



COFFEE COOKIES. 

V2 cup su^ar. V2 cup molasses. 

V2 cup butter. Va cup strong coffee. 

% teaspoonful ginger. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

Very little salt. Flour to roll out. 

Mrs. Henry E. Byron. 

LEMON COOKIES. 

5 cups flour. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup butter. Mj cup sweet milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 2 teaspoonfuls extract lemon. 

2 eggs. 

Mix thoroughly together the flour, sugar and butter. Add 
the eggs, well beaten, the soda dissolved in the milk, and the 
lemon. Mrs. Crawford Ranney. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup butter. 

2 eggs. ^4 teaspoonful soda dissolved 
1 teaspoonful lemon. in 1 teaspoonful of milk. 

Mix very hard with flour. Mrs. W. W. S. Brown. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

1 V2 cups sugar. 1 egg. 

1 cup sour cream. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful extract lemon. Flour. 

Mrs. F. F. Ruiter. 

WALNUT COOKIES. 

1 cup walnut meats, pounded 1 cup sugar. 

fine. 1 egg, well beaten. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. Flour to roll thin. 
1 heaping teaspoonful baking 

powder. S. C. S. 



116 COOKERY CRAFT. 



COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup butter. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

1 teaspoonful soda. Flour to roll. 

Mrs. W. D. Flint. 
cocoanut cookie5. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup butter. 

2 eggs. Vi cup milk. 

1% teaspoonfuls baking pow- 1 cup dessicated cocoanut. 
der. A little salt. 

Enough flour to roll thin. Bake quickly. N. P. M. 

METHODIST CRUMPETS. 

1 cup moist brown sugar. ^ cup butter. 

1 cup chopped raisins. 1 egg. 

V2 teaspoonful soda. I tablespoonful sweet milk. 

Spice as for cookies. Flour enough to roll out and bake 
like cookies. Mrs. J. N. Gale. 

HERniTS. 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup butter. 

3 eggs. All kinds of spice. 

1 large cup chopped raisins. 4 tablespoonfuls sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda. Flour enough to roll out. 

Cut and bake as cookies. 

Miss Alice Johnson. 

" Their influence, subtle, but still potent from its 
very subtleness, is being felt around us in many a 
puzzle — educational, social, political." — C. Kingsley on 
Hermits. 

MACAROONS. 

1 ^^ pounds almonds. 1 pound sugar. 

3 eggs, whites only. Rose water. 

Blanch and pound the almonds, with a little rose water. 
Beat the whites of the eggs stiff", add the sugar gradually then 
the almonds. Drop a teaspoonful at a time on buttered tins. 
Bake slowly a light brown. L. B. Merrill. 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 117 



CUP CAKE5. 

1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup sour cream. 3 cups flour (or a trifle more). 

3 eggs, beaten separately- 1 even teaspoonful soda. 

Flavor to taste. 

S. C. 

WAFERS. 

4 eggs. IVz cups butter. 

3 cups sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

Cream butter and sugar, add the well beaten eggs. Dis- 
solve the soda in a very little water. Stir in all the flour pos- 
sible, then knead in more; try it and see if it is gummy, if so it 
needs more flour. Roll thin, sprinkle with coarse white sugar, 
cut into strips and bake alight brown. If they are put into 
tin pails or boxes they will keep for months. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

QRAHAM CRACKERS. 

Va cup sugar. V2 teaspoonful soda dissolved in 

V^ cup butter. V2 cup water. 

White of 1 egg. Graham flour to knead. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Roll thin and cut in strips, prick with a fork and bake in a 
quick oven till crisp. Use white flour to roll out. Add more 
sugar if desired. Miss Helen Shaw. 

QRAHAM WAFERS. 

2 cups graham flour. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. V2 teaspoonful ginger. 
V2 teaspoonful cream tartar. A little salt. 

Work all into the flour, moisten with cold water with Vi 
teaspoonful soda. I. I. 

OATMEAL CRACKERS. 

2 cups oatmeal (fine). V2 cup hot water. 

2 cups white flour. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup l)utter. 1 teaspoonful salt. 
% cup sugar. 



118 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Mix well together the oatmeal, flour, sugar and salt. Melt 
the butter and add to it the hot water and soda, and pour 
into the dry mixture as quickly as possible. Roll very thin 
and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Merrill. 

OATHEAL COOKIES. « 

2V^ cups oatmeal. 2\i cups flour. 

1 full cup butter. 1 full cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

1 scant teaspoonfiil soda. 1 large tablespoonful cinnamon. 

Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. J. N. Gale. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

1 pound flour. V2 pound butter. 

% pound sugar. 6 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 
1 wine glass sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks of eggs well 
beaten, then soda dissolved in the milk ; lastly, alternate flour 
with cream tartar sifted into it, and the whites of eggs beaten 
stifi*, and add vanilla. Drop with a spoon on buttered tins 
and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

1 cup thick sour cream. 1 ^gg. 

1 cup sugar. Vz teaspoonful soda. 

'V2 teaspoonful salt. Spice or vanilla. 

Flour to make rather stiff" dough. Handle but small por- 
tion of dough at once and roll about V2 inch thick. Bake in 
hot oven. Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 

COOKIES. 

1 cup butter. 1 cup sugar. -^S^ 

1 tgg. 3 tablespoonfuls milk. 

1 even teaspoonful soda. Flour to roll. Roll very thin. 

Mrs. Henry French, 



COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 119 

WAFERS. 

1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 

V2 cup milk. 3 eggs. 

Spice or flavor as one pleases. 1 teaspoonful soda mixed in 6 

cups flour. 
"Roll dough thin, then sprinkle with fine sugar and roll very 
thin. Then cut, and with a wide knife lay in tins and bake. 

Mrs. Rebecca P. Fairbanks. 

VANILLA WAFERS. 

1 cup sugar. % cup melted butter, scant. 

1 Qgg. 4 tablespoonfuls milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Flour to stifl'eti and roll very thin. Bake in hot oven not 
longer than five minutes. Will make six dozen. 

Miss Fannie Russell. 

COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup butter. 

1 egg. ^ cup milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 4 cups flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten cgg^ then milk, 
then baking powder sifted with the flour. Roll thin and bake 
twenty minutes. Mrs. Loren F. Miner. 

Of small cakes it may be said in general that age 
cannot wither nor custom stale their infinite variety. 



CAKE. 



MRS. IRVING H. FROST. 




ANQEL CAKE No. 1. 

Whites of lieges beaten to as tifFfroth,lV^ cups sugar and 1 
cup flour sifted four times with 1 small teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and a little salt. Beat eggs and 
sugar, stir thoroughly, add flour a tablespoonful at a time. 
Bake forty minutes. Turn pan upside down to cool. 

Mrs. W. T. Horton. 



ANQEL CAKE No. 2. 

10 eggs, whitesonly. l^/icups sifted granulated sugar. 

A pinch of salt added to eggs Vz teaspoonful cream tartar, 
before beating. 1 cup sifted flour. 

After sifting flour four or five times set aside 1 cup ; then sift 
and measure sugar, beat whites of eggs about half, then add 
cream tartar and beat until very stiff", stir in sugar, then flour, 
very lightly. Put in pan and in a moderate oven at once. Will 
bake in thirty-five to fifty minutes. Mrs. J. W. Balch. 



CAKE. 121 

ANOEL CAKE No. 3. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 1 tumblerful flour. 
Whites of 6 eggs. 1 tumblerful sugar. 

Sift flour five times. Put cream tartar in tumbler, fill 
tumbler with flour and sift again; measure sugar and sift; 
beat whites stiff", add the sugar, and then the flour, beat until 
well mixed, add salt and flavoring. Bakefrom one-half to one 
hour. Turn tin upside down to cool. 

Mrs. a. M. Ritchie. 

" While Gilliat ^azcd, something white passed be- 
fore him, and- quickly vanished." — Toilers of the Sea. 

ARCHANGEL CAKE. 

8 eggs, whites only. 1 cup butter. 

2 cups sifted flour. 1 cup A sugar. 
1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour and flavoring, add 
lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in layers six to 
ten minutes, and fill with almond paste filling, or bake in a 
Turk's head tin. Bake about thirty minutes in a moderately 
quick oven. Miss Lizzie M. Ross. 

MARBLED CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

V2 cup butter. 1 cup sugar. 

V^ cup sweet milk. IV2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. Whites of 4 eggs (added last). 

Take 1 cup of this mixture, add to it 5 tablespoonfuls 
grated chocolate wet with milk, and flavor with vanilla. Put 
a layer of white batter in cake pan, drop the chocolate batter 
with a spoon in spots, pour over the remaining white batter 
and bake. Ice with Chocolate Icing No. 1. 

Miss Margaret Merrill. 

CHOCOLATE OR BLACK CAKE. 

3 eggs beaten separately. 3 cups flour. 

2 cups powdered sugar, or V2 cup milk. 
IV^ cups granulated sugar. V2 cup butter. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 2 squares chocolate. 



122 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs thoroughly, 
then add milk, then whites of eggs beaten stiff, add flour and 
stir hard, then stir in the chocolate dissolved in a little hot 
water. Bake in loaf or layers. Miss Eva Burke. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

1 tgg. 1 cup sugar. 

V2 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk, 

3 cups flour. 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Bake in two layers. Ice with Boiled Chocolate Icing No. 2. 
Mrs. Grace Webster Locke. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

V2 cup milk. 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

W2 cups sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

2 cups flour. 

Ice with Boiled Chocolate Icing No. 1. 

Mrs. Percy Thompson Kennedy. 

CARAMEL CAKE No. 1. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1 cup sugar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup butter. 2 cups flour. 

^ cup sweet milk. 

Bake in two tins. Put together with Caramel Frosting 
No. 2. Mrs. W. A. Taplin. 

CARAMEL CAKE No. 2. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

\i cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V2 cup sweet milk. 1^ teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups flour (heaping). V2 cup grated chocolate. 

Dissolve the chocolate and stir into the cake. Make two 
layers and bake rather quickly. 

CREAH. 

% cup milk. Butter size of an ^gg. 

2 cups sugar. 



CAKE. 123 

Boil ten minutes, remove from the fire and stir until cool. 
Add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and spread on the cake. 

Mrs. C. C. Montgomery. 

** It is sometimes pleasant enough to consider the 
different notions which different persons have of the 
same thing." — Addison. 

SPONGE CAKE No. 1. 

3 eggs beaten separately. IV^ cups sugar. 

Large V2 cup cold water. 2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

Stir the yolks and sugar together, add part of the water, 
then the beaten whites, and dissolve the soda in the remaining 
water. Mrs. Lulu Fenno Woolson. 

SPONQE CAKE No. 2. 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 1 cup 
powdered sugar; Mj of the sugar beaten with the yolks and the 
remainder with the whites ; then beat all together, add 1 cup 
flour, 1 teaspoonful Royal baking powder, a little salt, beat all 
together, then add V2 cup boiling water, beat well and bake in 
a moderate oven. Mrs. Minnie R. Ide. 

SPONQE CAKE No. 3. 

2 ^ggs. % cup sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls water. 1 cup flour. 

Two teaspoonfuls baking powder sifted with flour. Flavor. 
Mrs. Bessie Thompson Tucker. 

SPONGE CAKE No. 4. 

3 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

4 tablespoonfuls boiling water. Wi cups flour. 

1 teaspooriful baking powder. Flavor to taste. 

Beat well and add the water the last thing. Sprinkle 
sugar on top before baking. Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 



124 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SPONGE CAKE No. 5. 

Three eggs, beaten two minutes, add W2 cups sugar, beat 
five minutes, 1 cup flour, beat one minute, V2 cup sweet milk 
and V2 teaspoonful soda, beat one minute, now add 1 cup flour 
and 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, beat all five minutes. Flavor 
to taste. M. E. S. 

CREAH SPONGE CAKE. 

3 eggs. IV2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup sweet cream. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 
Flavor with lemon. S. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful cloves. 

2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 cup cold coffee. 1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

3 cups flour. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

Mrs. G.C. Burnham. 

DATE CAKE No. 1. 

One cup sugar creamed with V2 cup butter, 2 well beaten 
eggs, V2 cup sweet milk, in which dissolve V2 teaspoonful soda, 

2 even cups sifted flour, with 1 teaspoonful cream tartar well 
mixed in, a pinch of salt. Have ready 1 cup of nice fresh dates, 
stoned and chopped to about the size of raisins, roll these in a 
very little flour and stir well through the cake. Bake in a 
shallow pan for a full half hour. You can add a pinch of all 
kinds of spice. Mrs. Nettie Magoon. 

DATE CAKE No. 2. 

2 cup's sugar. 3 eggs. 

% cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

1 cup sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

3 cups flour. 1 cup dates rolled in flour. 

F. M. Simpson. 



CAKE. 



125 



PLAIN DARK CAKE. 



V2 cup butter. 

V2 cup sour cream. 

W2 cups brown sugar. 

2Mj cups flour. 

1 cup raisins. 



2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 teaspoonful each of cloves, 
cinnamon, allspice and nut- 
meg. 
Mrs. Lucy Hovey Spooner. 



WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

2 cups sugar. 
2 V2 cups flour. 

W2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



1 cup butter. 

% cup sweet milk. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

1 pound blanched almonds. 

1 pound citron. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add milk, then stir 
in flour with the baking powder well mixed ; next add the eggs 
beaten to a stiff" froth and when well mixed stir in the citron 
sliced and dusted lightly with flour, and lastly the almonds 
chopped fine. Line two medium sized cake tins with buttered 
paper. Pour in the batter, smoothing over the top, and bake 



slowly till done. 



V2 pound sugar. 
V2 pound flour. 
V2 pound currants. 
1 teaspoonful each all kinds 
spices. 



Mrs. Clara Wheeler Peterson. 

FRUIT CAKE No. 1. 

V2 pound butter. 
V2 pound raisins. 
5 eggs. 
1 lemon chopped. 



Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 



FRUIT CAKE No. 2. 



2 eggs, beaten separately. 

V2 cup butter. 

% cup molasses. 

V2 teaspoonful soda dissolved 

in milk. 
Spice to taste. 



1 cup sugar. 

V2 cup sour milk. 

2 V2 cups flour. 

V2 cup each of raisins, currants 
and citron. 

Mrs. Wm. Green. 



i26 COOKERY CRAPT, 



FRUIT CAKE No. 3. 

5 eggs. 2 cups sugar. 

2 cups butter. 1 cup sour milk. 

2 cups molasses. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

6 cups flour. 1 large coffee cupful each of rai- 
All kinds of spices. sins, currants and citron. 

Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 

CHEAP FRUITCAKE. 

5 eggs. 3 cups sugar. 

I pound raisins. 1 cup melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1 cup sour milk. 

M teaspoonful each all kinds 5 cups flour. 

of spices. 

This will make two good sized loaves. 

Mrs. F. G. Moore. 

" When we have succeeded then shall be our time 
to rejoice and freely laugh." — Buckley's Sophocles. 

ANTI FOREIGN FRUIT CAKE. 

One pint of dried apple soaked in cold water one hour, then 
chop as fine as raisins; put it into 1 V^ cups of molasses and let 
it stand in a warm place until the molasses is nearly absorbed, 
then add spices as for fruit cake and 
1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

I cup butter. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup sour milk. 4 cups flour. 

Mrs. J. M. Alvord. 

APPLE CAKE. 

Two cups dried apple soaked over night in cold water. 
Chop fine and cook slowly one hour in 2 cups molasses and V2 
cup sugar. When cool add 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour 
milk, 4V^ cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in the 
milk, and spices of all kinds. Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 



CAKE. 127 

EASY CAKE. 

W2 cups flour. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1 cup sugar. 

Mix well together, then break 1 tgg into a teacup and 
beat; add 3 tablespoonfuls butter melted. Fill up cup with 
new milk artd V2 teaspoonful soda. Add prepared flour. 
Flavor to taste. 

Mrs-. Ellen Ely Kyburg. 
snow cake. 
V2 cup butter. 4 eggs, whites only. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

IV^ cups flour. ^ cup sweet milk. 

Flavor with lemon. 

M. G. S. 

GOLD CAKE. 

V2 cup butter. 1 ^gg. 

1 cup sugar. Yolks of 4 eggs. 

V2 cup sweet milk. 1 teasponiul baking powder. 

W2 cups flour. 

Flavor with lemon and spice to taste. M. G. W. 

QOLD LOAF. 

Yolks of 8 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

V2 cup butter, scant. V2 cup sweet milk. 

W2 cups flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Beat yolks to a stifl" 
froth and stir evenly through. Put in milk, then flour and stir 
hard. Bake in tube pan in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. a. W. Simpson. 

CHARniNQ CAKE. 

3 eggs. 2H cups sugar. 

1 cup butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 

3V^ cups flour. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V2 teaspoonful soda. Flavor with vanilla. 

This makes two loaves. Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 



128 COOKBRy CRAFT. 



ONE EQQ CAKE. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tgg. 

^ cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups flour. 

M. Eloise Stevens. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten to a ^ teaspoonful soda. 

stiff froth. ^ cup butter. 

W2 cups sugar. 3 cups flour. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoonful essence of lemon. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Mrs. Carrie Taplin Hinman. 

VARIETY CAKE. 

2 cups sugar. 3 eggs. 

% cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V& cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda, or 

3 cups flour. 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Take half this mixture for whitecake, to the remainder add 
1 tablespoonful molasses, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

Mrs. Orris Paddock Hastings. 

NANCY HANKS CAKE.— First Part. 

8 tablespoonfuls grated choco- 5 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
late. V2 cup milk. 

Cook together till thick, flavor and cool. 

Second Part. 

W2 cups sugar. 3 eggs. 

V2 cup butter. M cup sweet milk. 

V2 cup flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Put the first part into the second part, bake in layers, put 
together with Boiled Icing No. 2. 

Mrs. Alice Smith Johnson. 



CAKE. 129 

CX)RNSTARCH CAKB. 

Whites of 3 eggs. V2 cup cornstarch. 

V2 cup butter. V2 cup sweet milk. 

V2 teaspoonful cream tartar. 1 cup sugar. 
Va> teaspoonful soda. 1 cup flour. 

Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

1 cup butter. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup sweet milk. 2 cups sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 3 cups flour. 

Take a little of the batter and add spices and molasses to 
darken it. Mrs. Abbie M. McNeil. 

CAKE WITHOUT EQGS. 

1 V2 cups sugar. V2 cup butter. 

1 cup sour milk. 3 cups flour. 

1 V2 cups raisins. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

'V2 teaspoonful cinnamon. V2 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

D. L. W. 

CREAH CAKE. 

1 cup cream. 1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 scant cups flour. A little salt. Q. Q. 

RAILROAD CAKE. 

Break an ^gg into a cup and fill it with sour cream. Add 

1 cup sugar. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups flour. Salt and flavor to taste. 

Mrs. Abijah Smith. 

QERHAN CAKE, 

1 % cups butter. 5 eggs. 

2% cups sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

3% cups flour. V2 teaspoonful each of cloves, 

V2 cup sweet milk. cinnamon, allspice and a bit 

of nutmeg. 
Bake in sheets and frost with lemon frosting. 

German Lady. 
10 



130 COOKERY CRAFT. 



BANANA CAKE. 

1 cup sugar (powdered is best). % cup butter. 
1 cup sweet milk. IV^ teaspootifuls baking pow- 

1% cups flour sifted with the der. 
baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar together. When these ingredi- 
ents are well mixed add the whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff. 
Flavor with almond. Bake in layers. Put together with the 
following Banana F'illing. 

BANANA FILLINQ. 

Slice up some bananas and stir them through 1 cup of 
rich cream which has been whipped to a stiff froth. 

Mrs. N. W. M. 

I^IG CAKE. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

H cup butter. 1^ cups flour. 

V2 cup sweet milk. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Mix to a cream the sugar and butter, add the eggs, well 
beaten, the soda dissolved in the milk, and the cream tartar 
sifted with the flour. Bake in three layers and fill with Fig 
Filling. 

FIQ FILLING. 

V2 pound figs. Vi cup water. 

1 egg. V2 cup sugar. 

Chop the figs fine and steam with the water for ten min- 
utes. When cool add the egg and sugar. Use white frosting 
for the top. 

Mrs. Crawford Ranney. 

FlQ ECDAIRE. 

Bake white cake in thin sheets. Put between the layers a 
filling made as follows: Chop fine y2 pound figs, add % cbp 
sugar, Vq cup water and the juice of 1 lemon. Cook in double 
boiler until thick enough to spread. Miss Lizzie M. Ross. 



CAKB. 



131 



"Sufficient to have stood though free to fall." 

— Milton. 
NUT CAKE NO. 1. 



1 cup sugar. 
Vz cup butter. 
% cup sweet milk. 

2 cups flour. 

V2 cup stoned and chopped rai- 
sins. 



1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. 



2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
V2 teaspoonful soda. 
1 large cup hickory or butter- 
nut meats. 
Mrs. J. Hammond Hastings. 

NUT CAKE No. 2. 

5 eggs, whites only. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
V2 teaspoonful soda. 
Bake in layers. 

FILLING. 

1 cup sour or sweet cream. 



1 cup nuts chopped fine. 
1 cup sugar. 

Mix and boil till right thickness to spread between the 
layers. Ice the top with white frosting and save a few whole 



nuts for the top. 



Mrs. Alice Smith Johnson. 

NUT CAKE NO. 3. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

V2 teaspoonful soda. 

V2 cup walnut meats chopped. 



1 cup sugar. 

% cup butter. 

1 V2 cups flour. 

V2 cup raisins chopped. 

V2 cup cold water. 

Reserve some of the whole meats to lay on the icing while 



soft. 

1 cup sugar. 
% cup butter. 
%cup sweet milk. 

2 cups flour. 



Mrs. F. W. Taylor. 

NUT CAKE No. 4. 

4 eggs, whites. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

% pound nuts chopped fine. 

Mrs. Etta Graham Stanhope. 



132 COOKERY CRAFT. 



NUT CAKE No. 5. 

1 V^ cups sugar. 3 eggs. 

% cup butter. 1 cup meats of any kind of nuts 

V2 cup sweet milk. preferred. 

Flavor with vanilla. 2V^ cups flour. 

Mrs. Goodall. 

PREMlUn WALNUT CAKE. 

1 cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks. 
V2 cup butter. White of 1 egg. 

2 cups flour. 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. V2 cup sweet milk. 

Bake in layers. Beat the whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar and 

1 cup chopped walnuts together and place between the cakes. 
Frost and place walnuts on the frosting if liked. 

Mrs. C. C. Frost. 

LEMON CAKE. 

4 tumblers flour. 3 eggs. 

2 V2 tumblers powdered sugar. 2 large lemons. 

% tumbler butter. 1 heaping teaspoonful soda, 

1 tumbler sweet milk. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, then 
the milk with the soda, and then the beaten whites and the 
flour. When this is well mixed grate in the peel of 1 lemon 
and add the juice of 2. Bake immediately. 

Miss Ellen C. Putney. 

'* If it were done when 'tis done, then 't were well 
it were done quickly. "^-MacfcetA. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

1 Vi cups sugar. 3 eggs. 

V2 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

2 V^ cups flour. 1/^ teaspoonful soda. 

JELLY FOR CAKE. 

1 grated lemon, juice and rind. 1 cup sugar. 
Butter the size of an egg. 2 eggs. 

Mrs. C. F. Eastman. 



CAKE. 133 

WHITE CAKE. 

1 cup pulverized sugar. 3 eggs, whites only. 

Vi cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

V2 cup sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful extract lemon. 

W2 cups flour. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add gradually the milk and 
the flour, into which the baking powder has been sifted; add 
the lemon extract and beat w^ell for several minutes. Beat the 
whites of the eggs very stifl" and add to the cake, stirring care- 
fully. Frost with Golden Lemon Frosting. 

Miss Caroline D. Ely. 
boston cake. 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

2 cups flour. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
V2 cup sweet milk. V^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Frost with Maple Sugar Frosting No. 2. 

Mrs. Gillian Webster Dean. 

LEAP YEAR CAKE. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup butter. 

V2 cup milk. 1% cups flour. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 1 heaping teaspoonful baking 

1 teaspoonful extract lemon. powder. 
Frost with Chocolate Frosting No. 6. 

Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 

HARLEQUIN CAKE. 

1 V2 cups sugar. V2 cup butter. 

3 eggs. 1 cup sweet milk. 
V2 teaspoonful soda. 3 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Divide in four parts; bake two parts as it is, add 1 tea- 
spoonful liquid coloring to third, and 1 square chocolate to 
fourth. Put in alternate layers with jelly between and frost- 
ing on top. Miss Flora M. Simpson. 



134 



COOKERY CRAFT. 



GRANDMA'S TEA CAKB. 

1 cup sugar. 1 egg. 

2 cups flour. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
1 cup sour cream. V2 teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup chopped raisins or cur- 
rants. Grandma. 

Grandmother's motto : " Do it and it will be done." 
ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

2 eggs. V^ cup sugar. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. ^ cup flour. 

^ teaspoonful soda. Mrs. I. H. Frost. 

RIBBON CAKB. 

3 eggs. 1 ^4 cups sugar. 
V2 cup milk. Vat cup butter. 

1 heaping teaspoonful bak- 2 cups flour, 
ing powder. 
Divide into three parts, 
other part add 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
A little nutmeg. 
1 cup fruit. 

Put jelly between the layers and frost on top. 

Mrs. Mabel Brackett Welch. 



Bake two parts plain ; to the 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses. 



3 cups light sponge. 

2 cups sugar. 
1 cup butter. 

3 cups flour. 

1 cup bread dough. 
1 cup brown sugar. 
1 cup flour. 
%cup butter. 



FRENCH LOAF. 

3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Fruit and spices, 

Mrs. G. H. T. 

RAISED CAKE. 

1 level teaspoonful soda. 
Raisins and spice to taste. 

Mrs. C. H. Stevens, 



CAKE. 135 



MAPLE SUGAR PILLING FOR CAKE. 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, add %cnp of 
maple sugar and V2 cup of chopped nuts and spread between 
the layers. Mrs. Ahijah Smith. 

CREAM CAKES. 

1 cup hot water. V2 teaspoonful salt. 

V^ cup butter. • IV^ cups pastry flour. 

4 eggs. 

Put on the water, salt and butter to boil, the instant it 
boils all over add the flour all at once, stir well until it cleaves 
from the pan ; it will take about five minutes. Let the mixture 
cool, then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat each Qgg in 
thoroughly before adding another. When well mixed, drop in 
small tablespoonfuls on a buttered baking pan, some distance 
apart to allow for spreading. Bake about thirty minutes in a 
hot oven until well risen, then decrease the heat and be careful 
to bake them until done. Split when cool and fill with the fol- 
lowing cream : 

CREAM FOR CREAM CAKES. 

1 pint milk, boiled. 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 

3 eggs, well beaten. % cup sugar. 

V^ teaspoonful salt. 

Wet the cornstarch in cold milk and cook in the boiling 
milk ten minutes, stirring thoroughly. Beat the eggs, add 
sugar and salt, stir thisinto the thickened milk and cook a few 
minutes longer. When cool, flavor with a few drops of almond 
and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Mrs. Elya Soule Webster. 

CREAH CAKE No. 1. 

1 Qgg. V2 cup sugar. 

Butter size of a butternut. V2 cup sweet milk. 

1 cup flour. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
Bake in two tins. 



136 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CRBAM. 

1 Qgg. 1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Mrs. Z. a. Richardson. 

CREAM CAKE No. 2. 

1 cup sugar. Butter size of a walnut. 

1 Qgg. 1% cups flour. 

% cup sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Va teaspoonful soda. Flavor to taste. 

Beat well and bake in three round cakes. 

WHIPPED CRBAM. 

To 1 cup sweet cream, beaten stifl", add Vz cup sugar, flavor 
and spread between layers. Mrs. Wm. Johnson. 

"With weightsand measures just and true, 

Oven 'of even heat. 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves, 

Success will be complete." 



Icings and Confectionery. 



MRS. Clarence berry— miss Eva Burke. 




ICINQ. 

Stir into 2 tablespoonfuls of hot milk powdered sugar 
enough to make an icing that will spread nicely on cake. 

Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 
plain frosting. 

1 egg ( white ). 1 cup powdered sugar. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar gradually, then 
cornstarch. Flavor to taste. Spread on cake and smooth 
with a knife wet in cold water. Mrs. J. W. Balch. 

** A result of molecular changes and differentiation 
— once nothing but cosmic vapor." 

BOILED ICINQ No. 1. 

1% cups of sugar. 1 egg ( white ). 

5 tablespoonfuls of water, 



138 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Add water to sugar and boil over a hot fire until it 
threads from the spo.on, stirring frequently at first. Beat 
white of egg fairly stiff. Pour the boiling sugar into it; add 
^ teaspoonful cream tartar. Stir rapidlj* for about thirty 
seconds, then put in beater and beat until light and creamy. 
Flavor to taste. When cooled to proper consistency spread on 
cake. Mrs. C. E. Peck. 

BOILED FROSTINQ I^o. 2. 

2 cups granulated sugar. V2 cup water. 

Boil till thick. Then turn it upon the well beaten whites 
of 2 eggs; add a pinch of cream tartar to make frosting soft. 
Add V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. Alice Smith Johnson. 

GELATINE FROSTINQ. 

To 2V^ tablespoonfuls of hot water add V2 level teaspoon- 
ful of granulated gelatine, or 1 tablespoonful of ordinary gela- 
tine. When dissolved add % cup of confectioner's sugar ; 
add V4, teaspoonful vanilla and beat until the right consistency 
to spread. Miss Mabel Fairbanks. 

CHOCOLATE ICINQ No. 1. 

1 cup powdered sugar. i/4 cake Baker's chocolate 

2 tablespoonfuls boiling water. ( shaved ) . 
White of 1 egg. 

Cook Vs of the sugar, all the chocolate and water together 
until smooth. Have the egg and remainder of the sugar 
beaten together and pour into them the hot chocolate. Beat 
well and spread on cake at once. 

Miss Margaret Merrill. 

CHOCOLAJE ICINQ No. 2. 

Butter Ms size of an egg. 2 cups sugar. 

Vs cup milk. - 1 square chocolate. 

Boil fifteen minutes; beat till cool, then add melted choco- 
late and vanilla. Spread between layers and over the top. 

Mrs. Grace W^ebster Locke. 



ICINGS AND CONFECTIONERY. 139 

**Thou art all ice; thy kindness freezes." 

—Richard III. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 3. 

1 cup grated chocolate. V2 cup sweet milk. 

1 cup sugar. 

Boil in a double boiler twenty minutes, or until it thickens. 

Mrs. E. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 4. 

Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of cream with powdered sugar 
enough to spread nicely, then melt a small piece of chocolate 
and pour into the cream and sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 

Miss Eliza Blodgett. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 5. 

% cake of chocolate. 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 

% cup of sugar. 1 f^gg. 

Cook in a double boiler until soft. Add the tgg well 
beaten ; stir until smooth ; add flavoring. When cooled to 
proper consistency spread on cake. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 6. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 8 tablespoonfuls of powdered 

1 cake of melted chocolate. sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Mrs. G. C. Burnham. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 7. 

One cup of sugar moistened with a little milk. Boil about 
five minutes after it begins to foam, then put on a plate and 
beat until quite thick. To this add not quite a square of 
grated chocolate and beat again about five minutes. 

Miss Isabel Pendridge. 

GOLDEN FROSTING. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 

Beat fifteen minutes, or until stiflp enough to spread. 
Flavor with vanilla, Miss Laura French, 



140 COOKERY CRAFT. 



ORANOB FROSTING. 

Into the yolks of 2 eggs stir powdered sugar enough to 
thicken. Add the grated rind and juice of 1 orange. 

Mrs. Irving Frost. 

PINK FROSTING. 

To a boiled icing add liquid cochineal enough to color. 

W. 

'* This curio us m orsel o f an tiquity,Th ucydides hath 
preserved for us." — Survey of Pelop. War. 

LEMON FROSTING. 

White of 1 ^gg. I cup of sugar. 

Juice of ^ lemon. 

Pour the white of the Qgg into a bowl, and add the sugar 
by degrees, taking care not to beat until the sugar is added. 
When all the sugar has been used beat in the lemon juice. 

If the white of the tgg is large it will require a full cup of 
sugar; if small, a scant cup. The lemon juice may be omitted 
and any other flavoring used. 

APPLE FROSTING. 

Grate 1 good-sized tart apple and beat into it the white 
of 1 egg until stiff. Add 1 cup of sugar and flavor to taste. 
This also makes a nice filling for layer cake. 

Miss Isabel Pendridge. 
golden lemon frosting. 
Beat thoroughly the yolks of 3 eggs ; add V2 teaspoonful 
of lemon extract and pulverized sugar until the frosting is stiff 
enough to spread. Miss Caroline D. Ely. 

HAPLE SUGAR FROSTING No. 1. 

2 cups maple sugar. % cup water. 

1 egg (white). 

Boil sugar and water until it threads from a spoon. Re- 
move from fire and add the well beaten white of the egg. Stir 
rapidly until thick enough to spread. 

Mrs. L. W. Rowell. 



ICINGS AND CONFECTIONERY. 141 

MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING No. 2. 

One cup maple sugar moistened with a little cold water. 
Boil till it hairs, then beat into the beaten white of 1 egg. 

Mrs. Gillian Webster Dean. 

CARAMEL FROSTING No. 1. 

1 cup sugar. V2 cup milk. 

Piece of butter the size of a walnut. 

Boil until it waxes; do not stir, and spread while warm. 

Mrs. Harry May. 

CARAMEL FROSTING No. 2. 

1^ cups sugar. Small piece of butter. 

% cup milk. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

A small piece of sweet chocolate, grated. Boil four 
minutes. Mrs. W. A. Taplin. 

"Sweetmeats, messengers of strong prevailment 
in unharden'd youth." — Midsummer Night's Dream. 

FONDANT FOR CANDIES. 

Put a pint of confectioner's sugar and a pint of cold water 
into a p(fi-celain lined kettle on the back of the stove. When 
the sugar is dissolved add a small saltspoonful of cream tartar. 
Do not stir but place where it will boil slowly for fifteen min- 
utes ; when done it will form a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water, which maybe easily worked between the fingers. Place 
in a dish of cold water, flavor and beat with a wooden paddle 
until it is cool enough to touch, when it should be worked 
with the hands until it is quite pliable and yet creamy. From 
this, walnut, date and almond creams and many other candies 
may be made. Miss Ella D. Ross. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

2 cups fine granulated sugar. V2 cup boiling water. 
V4 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Put sugar in a granite saucepan, add the water and stir 
until sugar is dissolved. Boil without stirring until the syrup 
dropped from the spoon leaves a fine hair. Pour carefully into 



142 COOkERY CRAFT. 



another pan and place in cold water. When the syrup is cold 
enough to bear your finger in it stir rapidly and constantly 
until it creams. Work in the vanilla and form into balls, 
which should be placed on waxed paper, and after three orfour 
hours they will be ready to cover. 

COVERING FOR CREAMS. 

V2 pound unsweetened choco- 2 tablespoonfuls powdered su- 

late. gar. 

V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Melt the chocolate by putting it in a small saucepan or 
bowl and standing it in a dish of boiling water. Then stir in 
the sugar and add vanilla drop by drop. Drop in the cream 
balls one by one; take them out with a fork and place on 
waxed paper. Maple creams may be made by boiling maple 
syrup in the same way. Miss Persis D. Hewitt. 

CREAMED WALNUTS. 

1 cup white sugar (scant). Vs cup water. 

V2 teaspoonful vanilla. 1 cup unbroken half walnut 

meats. 
Let the sugar and water boil until, when dropped in cold 
water, it will form a soft ball, not brittle. Take from the fire 
and add vanilla. Stir until it begins to look milky, then pour 
in cup of nut meats. Stir until they are all covered and then take 
out on plates.' The meats will not stick together; if they do 
they can be pulled apart. Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 

** A tender nest of soft young hearts, each to be 
separately studied.'* 

WALNUT CREAMS. 

Take the white of 1 egg and stir into it enough powdered 
sugar to roll into balls. Flavor as you please, and set in a 
cool place fifteen minutes, then roll into balls and place half an 
English walnut on either side of each ball and press together. 

Mrs. Carrie Frost Eastman. 



ICINGS AND CONFECTIONERY. 143 



WALNUT CANDY. 

1 cup walnuts chopped fine. 2 cups white sugar. 
1 cup milk. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Let the milk and sugar boil until a little of it dropped in 
water will make a soft ball and not melt. Take from the fire 
and add the vanilla, then stir until it looks creamy, add the 
finely chopped nuts and pour into a flat tin. Mark in squares 
like caramels. Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 

" A wilderness of sweets." — Paradise Lost. 
CHOCOLATE CREAHS. 

1 pound powdered sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

White of 1 egg. 

Beat the white to a stifl" froth and add sugar, mold into 
balls and roll in sugar. 

Chocolate— One-half cake Baker's chocolate and V^ tea- 
spoonful of lard. Melt chocolate and lard until soft, then dip 
creams into this. Drain on waxed paper. 

Miss Lena Rowell. 

PEPPERMINT CREAMS. 

Boil together without stirring 2 cups of sugar and half a 
cup of water. When thick enough to spin a thread, remove 
from stove to a basin of cold water and stir the mixture rap- 
idly until it becomes of a white creamy consistency. Flavor 
with peppermint and drop on waxed paper. 

CHOCOLATE PEPPERMINTS. 

Make like the above and when the drops are almost cooled 
dip into a pan of melted and sweetened chocolate. 

Mrs. C. M. Berry. 

COCOANUT BALLS. 

1 pound sugar. 1 egg (white). 

V^ package cocoanut. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Beat the egg to a stiff froth, add cocoanut and sugar. 
Mold into balls and drain on waxed paper. 

Miss Eva Burke. 



144 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CARAMEL CANDY. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup molasses. 

Let them come to a boiling point, then add 1 cup new 
milk, boil until it will rope, probably twenty-five minutes, then 
take from the fire and add butter the size of half a hen's egg ; 
flavor with vanilla. Pour into a buttered pan and let cool. 
Cut in squares and let harden. Miss Jennie Gale. 

TURKISH CARAHELS. 

2 cups sugar. V2 cup grated chocolate. 
V2 cup milk. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
i teaspoonful flour. Butter size of walnut. 
Pinch of salt. Vanilla. 

Boil until it will make a soft ball when dropped in water. 
Flavor with the vanilla as you take from the stove; stir until 
cfeamy. Pour into a flat tin and cut in squares. 

Miss Ella D. Ross. 

"Who knows to what unnamable subtleties of 
law all these . . . owe their shape ? " — The Hero 
as Divinity. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

^ cup sugar. V^ cake of chocolate. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Boil until it hardens. Remove from the fire, add vanilla 
and stir until cold. Pour intft buttered tins. When nearly 
cold stripe ofl" into squares, then when hard, cut and roll in 
wax paper. Miss Lena Rowell. 

CREAM CANDY. 

1 coffeecup white sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls water. 

Dissolve and boil without stirring, until brittle, in water. 
Just before it is done add ^ teaspoonful cream tartar. Flavor 
to taste. When done pour into buttered pans, and when cool 
enough to handle stretch until perfectly white. Cut in any 
shape preferred. Miss Fannie JRussell. 



ICINGS AND CONFECTIONERY 145 



PLOWED FIELD. 

1 cup milk. 2 cups sugar. 

Put on stove until they boil, then add 1 square ( or half 
cake) of Baker's chocolate, put in without breaking or grat- 
ing. Stir all the time, and cook until it will sugar when 
poured out into a tin. This generally takes over twenty 
minutes. Just before taking off stir in butter the size of an 
^SS' When cool, plow in squares with a knife. 

Miss Charlotte Fairbanks. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

2 cups molasses. o 1 cup sugar. 

1 quart peanuts. 1 teaspoonful soda. 
Butter size of walnut. 

Boil until brittle in water. Stir in soda, break peanuts 
into mixture and pour into buttered tins. Cut in squares. 

Miss Laura French. 

**Its nutritive properties are so widely diffused that 
we doubt if it can be fed to fattening stock with ad- 
vantage." — Am. Farm Book. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

2 quarts peanuts. 2 cups granulated sugar. 

Shell the nuts, rub off the brown peel and chop fine. Put 
the sugar into a hot, dry skillet and stir continually with an 
iron spoon. This will soon lump ai^d look brown but con- 
tinue stirring and suddenly it will become liquid, four in the 
nuts immediately, then pour out on buttered tins; mark in 
squares when cool. W. H. M. 

SALTED PEANUTS. 

Remove the shells and poCir boiling water over the nuts 
until the red covering leaves them. Spread on flat tin; pour 
some salad oil over them and place in a slow oven for one-half 
hour; then sprinkle with very fine salt; shake and set away 
to cool. Mrs. S. W. Hax^l. 

11 



146 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SALTED ALnONDS. 

To every cupful of blanched almonds add 1 even table- 
spoonful of melted butter or olive oil and let stand a while. 
Sprinkle with a level teaspoonful of salt for each cupful. Place 
in a moderately hot oven and bake until brown, stirring occa- 
sionally. Peanuts may be substituted for almonds and will 
be found palatable. J. L. M. 

CARAHEL ALMONDS. 

Blanch 1 pound almonds and drain well. Mix 1 table- 
spoonful melted butter with the nuts and spread them in two 
tins. Place in a moderately hot oven and roast for twenty 
minutes, stirring often. They should be of a delicate brown 
color. Put half a cup of sugar into a frying pan and stir over 
the fire until the sugar melts and begins to smoke. Instantly 
put in the browned nuts and stir rapidly until thej' are all 
coated with sugar. When cold break them apart. 

Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 

CRYSTALLIZED POP CORN. 

Put in an iron kettle 1 tablespoonful of butter, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of water and 1 cup of white sugar. Boil until ready 
to candy then throw in 3 quarts of corn nicely popped. Stir 
briskly until the candy is evenly distributed over the corn. 
Set the kettle from the fire and stir until it has cooled a little 
and each grain will be separate and crystallized with sugar. 

Miss Jennie Gale. 

"There's a divinity that shapes our ends 
Rough " — Hamlet. 



Drinks, Hot and Cold. 



MRS. EMMA ALBEE. 




TEA. 

The Japanese and Russians do not boil tea, but pour boil- 
ing water upon it. There is very little color to tea made in 
this way, and to most Americans it seems to have but little 
flavor. Long boiling of tea destroys the fragrant flavor and 
gives it a bitter taste. It is best to use a teapot of earthen 
ware or granite instead of tin, as it is said that the tannin in 
the tea will affect the metal and produce a poisonous compound. 
Scald the teapot that it may be hot, put into it 1 teaspoonful 
of tea for each cup to be made, pour on quickly boiling water 
and let it boil one minute, then after adding more boiling water, 
set it where it will keep hot, but not boil, for five minutes before 
serving. Increase the proportion of tea if a larger quantity is 
to be made. Mrs. Rebecca Fairbanks. 



148 COOKERY CRAFT. 



"A solvent is that which dissolves something. 
Warm tea is a solvent of sugar. * * Solvent signi- 
fies able to pay all debts."— W'efester's Spelling Book. 

ICED TEA. 

Make tea by receipt already given. Strain into an earthen 
pitcher and when cool set in an ice chest until wanted for use. 
To serve, put 2 lumps of sugar with cracked ice and a slice of 
lemon into a glass and fill with cold tea. 

Mrs. Rebecca Fairbanks. 
coffee for five. 

V2 pint brown coffee. V2 a beaten egg. 

1 quart boiling water. 1 pinch salt. 

Mix well together the white of the egg well beaten, with 
the coffee in a little cold water, then pour in the boiling water. 
Stir it in a coffee- boiler from the sides as it boils up. Let it 
boil ten minutes. Pour in a little cold water to settle it and 
set it where it will keep warm and not boil. Add the salt and 
serve with hot, but not boiled milk. 

"James Farr of ' The Rainbow' by Inner Temple 
Gate, hath beene prosecuted by the Inquest of Saint- 
Dunstans-in-the-West, for making and selling a sort of 
Liquor called Koffee ; whereby in making of the same 
he annoyeth neighbors by the e-vill smelle thereof— it 
being a nusance and prejudice to all the naborhood." 

— Records of St. Sepulchres\ London^ 1657. 

CHOCOLATE. 

2 squares chocolate. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 1 pint boiling milk. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Stir until smooth the sugar, chocolate and cold water; 
then add the boiling water. Let it boil five minutes, then add 
the boiling milk and serve immediately. Mrs. S. French. 

CURRANT SHRUB. 

Mash currants, sufficient to give a quart of juice, first 
through a coarse sieve or fruit squeezer and then through a 



DRINKS, HOT AND COLD. 149 

bag, and to this add 1 quart water and sugar to taste. Strain 
after the sugar is dissolved and serve with cracked ice. 

Mrs. Rebecca Fairbanks. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB No. 1. 

1 quart berries. 1 pint vinegar. 

1 V2 quarts sugar. 

Let the berries and vinegar stand over night, then press 
and strain; add the sugar, boil fifteen minutes; skim while 
boiling until clear. Mrs. G. E. Goodall. 

"But I do feci thirsty; I think a glass of stub 
would do my throat good; it is dreadful dry. Mr. 
Peckham, would you be so polite as to pass me a glass 
of srub." — Mrs. Sprowh in Elsie Venner. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB No. 2. 

1 pint vinegar. 4 pints raspberries. 

1 pint currant juice. 

Let it stand over night. Strain, then add an equal quan- 
tity of sugar and boil ten minutes, skimming until clear. 

Mrs. M. Paddock. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB No. 3. 

4 quarts berries. 1 ounce of tartaric acid. 

3 pounds sugar. 

Press the juice from the berries, add the sugar, and boil 
twenty minutes. Dissolve the acid in a little of the juice. 
When cool mix all together, let stand over night, then strain 
and bottle. Mrs. P. Blodgett. 

LEMONADE No. 1. 

3 lemons. 6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 quart water. 

Roll the lemons, press out the juice on the sugar, then add 
ice. A little pineapple and orange juices add very much to the 
flavor. Mrs. Emma Albee. 



150 COOKERY CRAFT, 



LEMONADE No. 2. 

To make lemonade by a new method is to pour water that 
has reached the boiling point over the lemons and sugar, then 
put on ice to cool. To make 1 quart use juice of 3 lemons, 
Vs pound, powdered sugar and 1 scant quart of water. 

Mrs. S. W. Hall. 

LEMONADE No. 3. 

A delicious lemonade is made by beating 1 egg separately, 
stir the beaten yolk into the lemonade. Beat the white to a 
stiff froth, add a little sugar and pour on the lemonade. One 
egg to about a quart. Mrs. G. Richardson. 

STRAWBERRY LEMONADE. 

1 quart strawberries. 1 quart water. 

2 lemons. 1 small cup sugar. 

Squeeze the juice from the strawberries and lemons, then add 
sugar and water. Before serving put chopped ice in the glasses 
to be used. Mrs. C. B. R. 

SODA WATER. 

2 quarts boiling water. 3 pounds sugar. 

1 pint cold water. 3 ounces wintergreen. 

4 whites of eggs. 3 ounces tartaric acid. 

Pour cold water on acid, and boiling water on sugar. 
When cold add wintergreen and acid. Beat eggs and add last. 
Beat all together; bottle and cork. Keep in a cool place for 
use. Put ^ teaspoonful soda in V2 glass ice water; add four 
tablespoonfuls of mixture. This is equal to the best soda 
water. Josephine. 



JELLIES. 



MRS. CRAWFORD RANNEY. 




"The amassed thought and experience of innum- 
erable minds." — Emerson. 



CURRANT JELLY No. 1. 

Pick currants before too ripe. Remove all dry leaves and 
bad currants ; wash and spread to dry ; then mash them and 
hang in cheese cloth bags to drani over night. To 1 tumbler- 
ful of juice, drained, allow 1 tumblerful of sugar. Boil the juice 
twenty minutes; skim carefully; add the sugar and let it boil 
until it will jelly when dropped on an ice-cold dish. Pour into 
tumblers. This is as clear as crystal. Press the juice from the 
bags for the second kettleful, and proceed in like manner as 
before. This makes nice jelly, but not as clear as the juice that 
drains from the bags. Twelve quarts currants make 20 tum- 
blers of jelly. Mrs. G. M. Howe. 



152 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CURRANT JELLY No. 2. 

Pick over the currants, wash, leaving them on the stems. 
As they heat, break with wooden ladle; when hot squeeze in 
coarse linen bag; then boil five minutes very fast; add 1 pound 
sugar to each pint of juice; stir well and boil again five min- 
utes. JOSKPHINE. 
GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 

Cut the gooseberries in halves, (they must be green) and 
put them into an agate kettle on the back of the range till the 
berries are soft; then mash with a spoon and put them in the 
jelly bag to drain. When all the juice is squeezed out measure 
it, and to 1 pint of juice allow 1 pound of loaf sugar. Put the 
juice and sugar into the preserving kettle and boil twenty 
minutes, skimming carefully. Put the jelly warm into tum- 
blers. Miss S. A. Mather. 

PLUM JELLY. 

Place the plums in a kettle and add enough water to cover ; 
let them come slowly to the boiling point, then simmer gently 
until soft. Put in a jelly bag to drip. Use equal quantities of 
juice and sugar. Boil the clear juice fifteen minutes ; add the 
sugar, which has been heated, and boil five or ten minutes 
longer, or until it jellies. This can be determined by dropping 
a little on a saucer; if it remains rounded and slightly jellied it 
is done; or drop a little into a glass of cold water, if it drops 
to the bottom without clouding the water it is done. Put 
into heated glasses and expose to the air until firm and cool. 

Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY. 

Heat the mashed berries carefully until the juice will flow 
freely. Squeeze through a jelly bag. Use equal quantities of 
juice and sugar and boil until it thickens, when tested, like 
plum jelly. Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Wash the fruit, quarter, but do not pare; barely cover 



JELLIES. 153 

with cold water, boil and mash until soft. Drain, but do not 
squeeze the fruit. Boil the juice with an equal quantity of 
sugar until it jellies. The juice of 1 lemon added to each pint 
of juice improves the flavor. Miss Lizzie Ross. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Pare and core quinces and cut into small pieces. Put the 
cores and parings into a preserving kettle, adding any left from 
quinces for preserves. Add cold water enough to cover, and 
simmer for two hours. The cores and seeds are rich in pectine, 
and using them one cannot fail to secure a firm, bright jelly. 
Put the cut up quinces into a kettle and treat the same as the 
cores and parings. Strain the juice from both kettles through 
a jelly bag, allowing them to drain instead of squeezing if you 
wish a clear jelly. To each pint of juice allow % pound of 
sugar. Boil the juice rapidly twenty minutes, skimming 
carefully, without stirring. Add hot sugar, boil one minute, 
and dip into jelly glasses. Let stand a da}- or two in a dry, 
cool place before covering. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

QRAPE JELLY. 

Use Salem grapes, heat them, putting in a little water to 
keep from burning. When well cooked, strain and boil the 
juice twenty minutes, add an equal quantity of sugar and stir 
till it is dissolved, then put into tumblers. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

JELLIED QUINCE. 

Slice the quinces very thin. Weigh an equal quantity of 
sugar, boil the fruit until very tender in water enough to cover 
the slices. Take out of the kettle, add the water that the 
rinds and cores have been boiled in ; strain through jelly bag, 
add the sugar and boil until it will jelly, then add the slices 
and boil about five minutes. Put into jelly tumblers, being 
careful to keep the slices whole. The orange quince is the best. 

Josephine, 



154 COOKERY CRAFT. 



1891?. " These should be hours for necessities, not 
for delights."— Henrj' VIII. 

PEACH MARHALADE. 

This, like other marmalades, may be made from the parings 
and the pulp of fruit which is too soft to can. Use only enough 
water to cover. Boil slowly until soft enough to rub through 
a sieve, add % as much sugar as fruit and boil slowly about 
three quarters of an hour until it thickens. Stir frequently. 

Mrs. T. C. Fletcher. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Put the cranberries into the preserving kettle with 1 pint 
of water for each quart of berries. Cook until soft, then hang in a 
cheese cloth bag to drain. Measure the juice and allow an 
equal quantity of sugar. Boil the juice twenty minutes, then 
add the sugar, stirring until dissolved. It is not necessary, 
usually, to boil again. Mrs. Crawford Ranney. 

ORANQE MARMALADE. 

12 sweet oranges. 6 lemons cut fine. 

15 pints water. 

Let stand twenty-four hours ; boil three hours, then add 
12 pounds sugar and boil thirty minutes. 

Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

WILD QRAPE MARMALADE. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, wash and put on to boil ; 
as they heat, stir and mash with a wooden spoon, when well 
cooked, sift through a wire sieve. To every pint of pulp add 
1 pound of sugar. Boil fifteen minutes. Putinto jelly tumblers. 

Miss Julia A. Taplin. 

ORANQE JELLY. 

The juice of 5 oranges and 1 lemon, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups 
boiling water. Soak Vz box of gelatine in 1 cup of cold water for 
an hour, add this to the boiling water and the juice of oranges 
and lemon, and strain all that the jell}' may be clear. 

Mrs. Richard Hovey. 



JELLIES, 155 

** A man I knew who lived upon a smile; 
And well it fed him; he looked plump and fair." 

— Young. 
LEMON JELLY No. 1. 

One-half box gelatine soaked over night in 1 cup water, 
add 1 heaping cup sugar, juice of 2 lemons, grated rind of 1. 
Let stand one hour, add 2 cups boiling water, and stir until 
dissolved. Strain and cool. Mrs. S. H. Brackett. 

LEMON JELLY No. 2. 

Pour 1 pint boiling water on ^box gelatine, add the juice 
of 1 lemon and 2 cups sugar. When nearly cold strain and add 
the whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, then beat the whole 
together and put in a glass dish. Miss Addie S. Alvord. 

COFFEE JELLY No. 1. 

V2 package gelatine. 1 pint new milk. 

V2 pint strong coffee. % cup sugar. 

1 cup sweet cream. Whites of 2 eggs. 

Put gelatine into pitcher, pour over it the milk, let stand V2 
hour, add the boiling coffee, stirring until all is dissolved, add 
the sugar and strain through muslin. Stir in the cream, 
whipped, and the whites of the eggs well beaten. Pour into 
molds. Serve with sugar and cream. Josephine. 

"All life originates in jelly; this is the germinal 
substance, primordial, structureless, out of which come 
the numberless varieties of animated beings." 

COFFEE JELLY No. 2. 

1 ounce gelatine. V2 pint cold water. 

V2 cup sugar. IV2 pints strong hot coffee. 

Pour the cold water on the gelatine and let stand till soft. 
Pour over this the hot coffee and add the sugar. Stir till the 
gelatine and sugar are dissolved, strain into a mold and set on 
ice to harden. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. C. H. Merrill, 



Preserving and Canning. 




-^.- ::s^.-^r. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

In canning, or preserving, the principal thing is to see that 
every bubble is taken out. It can be done by slipping a knife 
or spoon carefully down the side of the can. 

Another thing, put the fruit into the cans boiling hot. This 
can be done by first putting a silver spoon into the can. 

See that the cans are well rinsed and tilled with warm 
water and fitted to covers and rubbers. Also see that no can 
is nicked, as that will prevent sealing. 

After the cans are filled and bubbles taken out, heap the 
can with juice, put on cover, and seal. Set away till morn- 
ing. 

In the morning unfasten the top, then if, by taking hold 
of the cover only, you can lift the can without bubbles gather- 
ing near the rubber, it is sealed. Otherwise it must be heated 
over and tried again. I find this a good test. 

I prefer the ** Lightning" cans. 



PRESERVING AND CANNING. 157 

"So theytook Christiana, her children, and Mercy, 
into the closet and showed them one of the apples 
that Eve did eat of, and that she also did give to her 
husband, and for the eating of which they both were 
turned out of Paradise, and asked her what she 
thought that was?" — Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. 

PRESERVED APPLE. 

Core and pare a dozen good sized apples and cut into 
eighths; make a syrup of 1 pound sugar, V2 pint water, let it 
boil, and then put in as much apple as can be boiled without 
breaking. Remove them carefully when tender. After all are 
done add a little more sugar, boil a few minutes, flavor with 
lemon and pour over the apples. S. A. M. 

PRESERVED TOHATOES. 

Take 6 pounds of tomatoes, peel ; the peel and juice of 3 
lemons, 1 lemon sliced thin, and Vs pound of ginger tied up in 
a bag; put on the side of the range and boil slowly for three 
hours. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

PRESERVED TOMATOES. 

Take ripe tomatoes, peel, take out all seeds, put into the 
kettle. To 7 pounds of tomatoes take 3V^ pounds of sugar, 
the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, and 2 lemons sliced thin. 
Boil slowly, mashing fine. When sweet and thick put into 
jars or tumblers. Miss S. A. Mather. 

PRESERVED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Take gooseberries before quite ripe; allow a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit ; stew them till quite clear and till 
the syrup becomes thick. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

WATERMELON PRESERVES. 

Cut a watermelon in two ; take out the soft inside, leav- 
ing only the firm white rind. Cut into any shape. Boil the 
bits in water enough to cover, with fresh lemon peel to color 
yellow. When tender place in dishes to cool. Make a syrup 



ir,S COOKERY CRAFT. 



of 1 pound of sugar and 1 teacup of water to 1 pound of mel- 
on. Let it boil, then put in the melon and boil till clear, with 
slices of lemon to flavor. When the melon is transparent take 
out with a skimmer; boil syrup till thick, then pour over the 
fruit. Miss S. A. Mather. 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Pare, quarter and core the fruit and then cut each quarter 
into three slices. Put into enough hot water to cover and 
boil till tender but not too soft. Skim out and put into cans. 
Make a thick syrup of the water in which they were boiled, 
using a cup of sugar to every cupful of water. When boiling 
skim clear and then fill the cans. Do not seal the cans till they 
have stood at least five minutes, for you can fill the second 
time with syrup. The orange quince is better for preserving 
as it cooks tender more easily. Equal parts of sweet apple 
and quince make a preserve that can hardly be told from the 
quince alone. Treat the apples exactly as you do the quince. 

Mrs. L. B. Merrill. 

'* Contact with the extremities of the papillae of 
the tongue is requisite for the best effect." 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

Peel and quarter fruit. Allow % of a pound of sugar to 1 
pound of fruit. Make a syrup in proportion of 1 pint of wa- 
ter to 2 pounds of sugar. Cook fruit in syrup two or three 
hours, or to a golden brown. Mrs. Annie Horton. 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Pare and place them on a plate in the steamer over boiling 
water, keeping them tightly covered. Steam until they can be 
easily pierced with a fork. Put into heated cans, standing in 
hot water till sealed. Make a syrup of 1 pint of water to each 
pound and a half of sugar. Pour over the fruit the hot syrup, 
and seal. Mrs. Annie Horton. 



PRESERVING AND CANNING. 159 

Explanatory — **Pompions arc sometimes called 
Pumpkins." 
" Plums grow on trees." 

PRESERVED PUMPKINS. 

Cut a thick yellow pumpkin into narrow strips about two 
inches long. Use 1 pound white sugar to 1 pound pumpkin. 
Pour over it 2 wineglassfuls of lemon juice for each pound of 
pumpkin. Next day put the peel of 1 lemon in a muslin bag 
and boil the whole long enough to make it tender without 
breaking. Skim out the pumpkin, let it cool, strain the syrup 
and boil ten minutes. Pour over pumpkin and seal it up. 

Mrs. Laura Blodgett. 

PLUMS. 

Wash and weigh the plums, using 1 pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit. Make a syrup, using V^ pint of water to 
2 pounds of sugar. Boil and skim, then put in plums, after 
they have been well pricked, and let them cook very slowly 
until sweet. Mrs. Sarah French. 

CANNED PURPLE EGGS. 

Wash and wipe the perfect plums. Make a syrup of 1 
pound of sugar to V2 pint of water; let it boil, then put in 
as many plums as can be cooked without breaking ; remove 
them carefully when tender and place in a jar. After all are 
done fill the jars with the syrup, after it has been skimmed 
and set away till morning. Then take a deep kettle, putting 
pieces of wood in the bottom, so the jars will not touch the 
bottom, set in the cans, filling the kettle with cold water nearly 
to the top of the cans ; let it come to a boil, then take the cans 
out and press out all air bubbles, then fill with hot syrup and 
seal. 

CANNED GREEN GAGE. 

Made the same as Purple Eggs. 



160 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CANNED RASPBERRIES. 

Fill a can with ^ood firm berries; then fill the can with 
pure cold water, place in a deep kettle of cold water (putting 
pieces of wood in the bottom to prevent the can touching the 
kettle), let it boil a few minutes, press out the air bubbles, fit 
rubbers, fill with boiling water, and seal. 

CANNED BLACKBERRIES. 

Made the same as Canned Raspberries. 

COLD CURRANTS. 

Wash and drain, mash thoroughly, and to each pint or 
pound add equal amount of sugar, let stand several hours, 
(over night if you can) stir well and put in cans. Blackberries 
and raspberries can be put up in the same way. 

Mrs. Z. a. Richardson. 

CURRANT CONSERVE (For Heats.) 

Three pounds of currants picked from stems, 2 pounds best 
table raisins, 4 pounds sugar, 1 pint currant juice. Stone the 
raisins, mix with the currants, heat the sugar in the oven, pour 
the juice over it. Mix the currants and raisins with it and 
boil until it jellies. Put into jelly glasses. J. C. K. 

•'Will't please your lionor taste of these con- 
serves ? '' — Taming of the Shrew. 

CURRANT CONSERVE. 

7 pounds currants. 6 pounds sugar. 

2 pounds raisins. 2 oranges. 

Stone and chop the raisins. Put with the currants, sugar, 
and juice of oranges and cook twenty minutes or half an hour. 
The grated rind of oranges can be added if you like. 

Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 

JELLIED CURRANTS. 

Pick over and wash the currants (drain well), and weigh 
equal quantities of sugar and fruit. Boil the fruit ten minutes, 



PRESERVING AND CANNING. 161 

add the sugar and boil another ten minutes ( measure the time 
from the minute boiling commences); put into cans. As it 
cools the syrup will be a fine jelly. Josephine. 

COLD STRAWBERRIES. 

Pick over firm, fresh berries. If sandy, rinse and drain well. 
Then to 3 cups of berries, take 2 of sugar, put into a large 
earthen bowl, mix well, and place in the refrigerator till morn- 
ing. Then stir well, but not beat, take off all bubbles, put 
into cans, press out air (it will take a long while), seal, wipe 
off can, and at once roll in two or three thicknesses of paper, 
so no light will touch the fruit. Put in a dark cellar. 

Found good at the end of the year. 

Miss S. A. Mather. 

APPLE aiNOER. 

5 pounds sour apples. 5 pounds sugar. 

2 ounces ginger root. 2 or 3 sliced lemons. 

Make syrup of the sugar, cut apples into small pieces — 
squares. Boil all together till apples take on a clear, rich, 
yellow color. Sheepcote. 

CANNED CRANBERRIES. 

1 cup cranberries. 1 cup water. 

1 cup sugar. 

Boil cranberries in the water until they break, then add 
sugar until thoroughly mixed. Mrs. H. Paddock. 

WILD GRAPE PRESERVES. 

Pick over the grapes, wash and drain ; put into a kettle 
and set on the back of the stove till heated through. Rub 
through a wire sieve till nothing but seeds and skins remain. 
To every pint of liquid add 1 pound of sugar. Boil fifteen 
minutes and seal. J. 

CANNED RHUBARB. 

Prepare the rhubarb as for pies, pour boiling water over 
it, and pour off, then add enough water to barely cover (as 
12 



162 * COOKERY CRAFT. 



for sauce), cook till tender, put into cans hot and seal. Be 
sure to take off all the scum. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Peel and slice good, ripe tomatoes into a kettle with a 
little salt, cook well, taking off all scum. Can while hot. If 
they are sealed the next morning, thej- are all right. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 



Pickles, Sweet and Sour. 



MRS. F. A. TIFFT— MISS ADDIE ALVORD. 




"The thoui?hts here embodied are clear, axiomatic, 
vigorous and valuable for solving many difficulties." 

— Dean of Canterbury. 



SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

To 5 pounds of green gooseberries put 4 pounds of brown 
sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful ground cloves, 1 
tablespoonful ground cinnamon. Boil gently four hours. Stir 
frequently. Mrs. Abijah Smith. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

5 pounds currants. 1 pint vinegar. 

4 pounds brown sugar. 1 tablespoonful cloves. 

V2 teaspoonful ginger. 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 

A little nutmeg. 

Boil slowly two hours; longer if you wish it quite thick. 

Mrs. Merrill. 



164 COOKERY CRAFT. 



SPICED GRAPES. 

7 pounds grapes. 1 pint vinegar. 

3 pounds sugar. Spice to taste. 

Squeeze the pulps from the skins, cook them till tender, put 
them through a colander to remove seeds; then put pulps and 
skins together and make according to the above receipt. Boil 
till the grape skins are tender and the compound thick. 

Mrs. Henry F'rench. 
spiced tomatoes. 

Peel and slice ripe tomatoes, cook twenty minutes. To 
each pound of cooked tomatoes add V2 pound brown sugar, V2 
pint vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each of cassia, cloves and ginger. 
Stew slowly two hours. Mrs. Crawford Ranxey. 

PICKLED BLACKBERRIES. 

7 pounds blackberries. 1 pint vinegar. 

3 pounds sugar. 

Simmer (not boil) one hour. Nice for pies. 

Mrs. H. E. Byron. 
beet pickles. 

Choose small beets, boil until tender. Make a syrup of 1 
cup of sugar and 1 pint of cider vinegar, boil five minutes and 
pour over the beets while hot. Seal in glass jars. 

Mrs. Abijah Smith. 
cucumber pickles no. 1. 

1 gallon cider vinegar. 1 cup salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls white mustard 1 tablespoonful powdered 
seed. alum. 

Pour boiling water over cucumbers,let them stand one night, 
wipe dry and put in the prepared vinegar. 

Mrs. Henry French. 

" He delivered himselfof these judicious sentiments 
in that peculiar, acid tone hereditary to four genera- 
tions raised on east winds, salt fish, and large, white- 
bellied, pickled cucumbers. "—O. W. Holmes. 



PICKLES. 165 



CUCUMBER PICKLES No. 2. 

2 gallons cider vinegar. V2 pound black mustard seed, 
4 ounces ginger-root. bruised and put in a bag. 

3 ounces whole black peppers. 3 ounces allspice. 
1 ounce whole cloves. 

Wash cucumbers and soak in salted water twenty-four 
hours, then wash and wipe carefully and put in the above 
mixture cold. Use onions if you like. Will keep any length of 
time. Mrs. Henry French. 

QREEN CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pick small cucumbers, wash and wipe carefully, put them 
in glass jars. To 1 quart good vinegar add 1 teaspoonful 
salt and V2 teaspoonful pepper. Scald vinegar and pour on 
cucumbers and seal the jars quickly. 

Mrs. W. L. Russell. 

shall cucuhber pickles. 

Wash cucumbers, soak in a strong brine twenty-four hours. 
(Make brine of rock salt and boil.) To 1 gallon of strong 
cider vinegar (cold) add V2 pound of the mixed pickling spices. 
Gather your cucumbers each morning; add to the vinegar the 
ones gathered the previous morning and put the new ones into 
the brine until you fill your jar. Mrs. G. M. Howe. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

7 pounds peaches. 3 pints vinegar. 

3 pounds sugar. 1 tablespoonful each of mace 

1 teaspoonful each of celery and cinnamon, 
seed and whole cloves. 
Rub the fur off with a coarse cloth, prick with a fork and 
stick in the cloves. Heat in just water enough to cover until 
almost to a boihng point ; take out the peaches and add to the 
water 3 pounds of sugar. Boil fifteen minutes, skim and add 
3 pints of vinegar and the remaining spices in muslin bags. 
Boil this mixture ten minutes, then put in the fruit and boil 



166 COOKERY CRAFT. 



until you can pierce with a straw. Take out the peaches and 
spread in dishes to cool. Boil the syrup down thick. Pack 
the peaches in glass jars and pour over the syrup hot. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHE5. 

10 pounds peaches. 2 quarts vinegar. 

5 pounds sugar. 

Put the sugar and vinegar together and add whole cloves 
and cinnamon to taste. Put a dozen peaches in the syrup and 
cook until they can be pierced with a silver fork, then take out 
on a plate and put 3 cloves in each one. Place the peaches in 
ajar, and after the fruit is all cooked, boil the syrup five min- 
utes and pour over the fruit. Scald the syrup three days in 
succession. Mrs. C. C. Montgomery. 

"Thoushaltbe * * * stewed in brine. 

Smarting in lingering pickle." — Cleopatra. 

RIPE CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLE No. 1. 

Pare, cut and take out seeds of ripe cucumbers, put in pans 
and sprinkle with salt, cover with boiling water and let stand 
twenty-four hours ; then remove from that and cover cucum- 
bers with weak vinegar and let stand another twenty- four 
hours; take out of that, passing each piece through the hand to 
remove any soft part. Put in kettle and to 1 quart of vinegar 
add 1 pound sugar; cinnamon, cloves and allspice to taste. 
Cook till tender. Put spices in little bags. 

Mrs. W. L. Russell. 

RIPE CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLE No. 2. 

7 pounds ripe cucumbers. V2 ounce each of ginger root, 

3 pounds sugar. stick-cinnamon, whole cloves 

1 quart vinegar. and allspice berries. 

Prepare cucumbers and rub in salt the night before using. 
In the morning boil in alum water until soft, drain well, put in 
a stone jar and pour over the syrup while it is hot. Have the 



PICKLES. 167 



spices in muslin bags. After standing three days, scald and 
pour over again hot. Mother's receipt. 

Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

sweet pickles. 

Eight pounds green tomatoes chopped fine, add 4 pounds 
brown sugar and boil down three hours ; add 1 quart vinegar, 
1 teaspoonful each ofmace, cinnamon and cloves. Boil about 
fifteen minutes ; let it cool and put in jars. 

Mrs. W. T. Hort(»n. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

1 quart green tomatoes. 1 pint onions. 

1 quart green cucumbers. 1 pint cabbage. 

Put in a weak brine at night. In the morning boil until 
tender and chop. Make a syrup of 1 quart vinegar and 2 
cups sugar; to this add. chopped vegetables, 2 large spoonfuls 
of mustard and thicken with % cup flour. Boil until thick and 
well done. Mrs. H. E. Byron. 

** Efficient but not sufficient." 

PICCALILLY No. 1. 
1 peck tomatoes. 2 tablespoonfuls each of allspice, 

1 cup white mustard seed. cloves and cinnamon. 

1 cup grated horseradish. 1 pint sugar. 

Sprinkle over the tomatoes 1 cup salt and let them stand 
over night. Drain and rinse in cold water. Chop and boil 
until tender in weak vinegar. Heat the sugar and vinegar, 
add spices tied in a bag. When boiling hot pour over the 
tomatoes. Six chopped onions may be added if desired. 

Mrs. F. a. Tifft. 

PICCALILLY No. 2. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful red pepper. 1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

V^teaspoonfulground mustard. V^ tablespoonful cloves. 
1 tablespoonful allspice. 



168 COOKERY CRAFT. 



To 1 peck of green tomatoes sliced add 1 cup salt. Let stand 
over night, drain, boil in 1 gallon good vinegar with 2 or 3 
onions until tender. Skim them out and boil the vinegar down 
to one-third, then add the above ingredients. Pour over the 
tomatoes hot and cover till cold. 

Mrs. Geo. C. Burnham. 

RED CABBAGE PICKLE. 

Take red cabbages, quarter and take out the hard stalk ; 
then chop and lay in an earthen bowl with a good sprinkling 
of salt, put in a cool place for twenty-four hours, after which 
rinse in cold water and drain. To 1 quart of strong vinegar 
put 2 tablespoonfuls of black pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of all- 
spice and 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and mace. Bring to a 
boil, then put in the cabbage, let boil twelve minutes, then set 
off and allow to cool slowly with cover on. 

Mrs. W. T. Horton. 

tomato catsup. 

To V2 bushel skinned tomatoes add 1 quart best cider vine- 
gar, 1 pound salt, Vi pound black pepper, 1 ounce African 
cayenne, Vi pound allspice, 1 ounce cloves, 3 boxes ground 
mustard, 20 cloves of garlic, 6 onions, 2 pounds brown sugar 
and 1 handful peach leaves. Boil this for three hours, con- 
stantly stirring to keep from burning. Let cool and then 
strain through a sieve and put into bottles. It improves with 
age. S. M. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

12 large green cucumbers. 3 or 4 medium sized onions. 

1 quart vinegar. 1 tablespoonful pepper. 

3 tablespoonfuls salt. 

Pare and grate the cucumbers and onions, add the other 
ingredients, srirring together thoroughly. Let stand a few 
hours and then put up in bottles or glass jars. This is not 
heated at all and will always retain the flavor of the fresh 
vegetables. Mrs. C. H. Stevens. 



PICKLES. 169 



CHILI SAUCE. 

18 ripe tomatoes (pared). 3 green peppers chopped fine. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 onion. 

I teaspoonful each of all kinds 1 cup sugar, 
of spice. 2V^ cups vinegar. 

Boil slowly one-half hour and bottle for use. 

L. B. M. 



FOR THE SICK. 



MISS JULIA A. TAPLIN. 




UNLEAVENED WAFERS. 

Sift 1 pint flour, (salt), mix to a stiff dough with new 
milk, roll out very thin, cut into round cakes, bake very quickly. 
CURD AND WHEY. 

1 teaspoonful Fairchild's Es- 1 small pint new milk, 
sence of Pepsin. 
Have the milk just warm, what we call milk warm, put 
into glass dish, stir in the essence of pepsin, set away to cool. 
Serve with sugar, or sugar and cream. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

1 cup tapioca. 3 cups cold water. 

Wash the tapioca in 3 or 4 waters. Drain and 
pour 3 cups of cold water over it, let it stand over night, 
or at least four hours. Cook in double boiler. When it begins 
to look clear stir often. Add boiling water if required. When 
quite clear pour into molds. Serve cold with sugar and 
cream. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 171 

SAQO. 

2 cups cold water. 2 tablespoonfuls of sago. 

Wash the sago and put into the cold water, set into double 
boiler. Stir often, let it cook half an hour, serve hot with 
sugar and cream. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

1 pint sweet milk. 2 dozen raisins. 

V2 teaspoonful cornstarch. 

Quarter and boil raisins twenty minutes. Let all the water 
boil away, add milk and cornstarch, boil ten minutes, season 
with salt and strain. 

" Yet I do fear thy nature ; 
It is too full o' the milk of human kindness.''— Lady Macbeth. 

ARROW ROOT QRUEL. 

1 tablespoonful arrow root. V2 pint sweet milk. 
y2 pint boiling water. 

Boil fifteen minutes. Sweeten with loaf sugar. Excellent 
for children with bowel trouble. Mrs. Irving Frost. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 

1 cup of meal (granulated 2 quarts boiling water, 
is the best.) 
Stir the meal into the water slowly, salt to taste, let it 
simmer one hour. It is much better if cooked longer. Add 
cream to taste. 

GRAHAH GRUEL. 

Dissolve 2 large spoonfuls of graham meal in 1 cup of 
cold water, add 1 quart of warm water and heat gradually 
for an hour. Then boil steadily for one hour, adding boiling 
water until you have 1 quart of gruel, strain, salt and 
sweeten to suit taste. Mrs. Mary J. Taplin. 

OATMEAL JELLY. 

Pour 1 pint of cold water over 2 cups of fine oat- 
meal. Let stand one-half hour. Add 1 quart boiling water, 



172 COOKERY CRAFT. 



a teaspoonful of salt. Cook one hour in double boiler. Sift 
through wire sieve, pressing hard with wooden spoon. Set 
jelly away to cool. Serve with sugar and cream. 

"Oatmeal is the meal of oats. It is very good 
food."— Webster, A. D. 1S30. 

" It should be boiled till it cannot swell any more 
on the stomach." — Hippocrates, on Ptisan, B. C.330. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Put 1 cup fine oatmeal into 1 pint cold water. Let 
stand half hour. Stir well and strain off the water. Boil 
fifteen minutes. Strain and salt. Add cream or milk if 
allowed. Serve hot. 

8079 
'* The minimum temperature should be -3— 7ZT77— — r =2731 C." 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Stir into 1 pint boiling (new) milk 1 tablespoonful 
flour wet withcoldmilk. Cook very slowly onehour (in double 
boiler, covered.) If it evaporates add more milk, keeping the 
pint. When done strain and salt. 

Mrs. B. R. Alvord. 

PARCHED CORN COFFEE. 

Brown the corn and break (not very fme.) Pour over it 
boiling water, boil a few moments, add scalded milk, sugar if 
you hke. Mrs. B. R. Alvord. 

COUGH MIXTURE. 

Boil 1 ounce of flaxseed and 1 ounce of slippery elm 
bark in 1 quart of water for half an hour. Strain and add 
to the liquid the juice of 2 lemons and half a pound of rock 
candy or sugar. If the cough is accompanied by weakness and 
loss of appetite, add V2 ounce of powdered gum arabic 
and simmer for another half hour. Take wine glass full when 
needed. Mrs. P. D. B. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 173 



" For cough of the Lungges : take a Cock, pull him 
alive, cutt him upe, take his intralles out, wipe him 
clean, put him in a stille with a pottle of sack and a 
pottle of Red Cow's milk.— Afs. Medycine Boke of Dr. 
S.Jones of Bettwys-j'Coed 1650. 

A refreshing and nourishing drink for an invalid may be 
made by stirring the yoke of 1 egg into a glass of lemonade. 

Mrs. p. D. B. 

Stir in a glass of milk the white of 1 Qg,^ lightly beaten. 

Mrs. p. D. B. 

MULLED JELLY. 

One tablespoonful of currant or grape jelly. Beat with it 
the white of 1 ^gg and a little loaf sugar. Pour (m it ^^ ])int 
of boiling wiiter. Break into it a slice of dry toast or cracker. 

Mrs. Irylng Frost. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

F^'our tablespoonfuls of whole flaxseed with 1 quart of 
boiling water poured on. Juice of 2 lemons minus the peel. 
Sweeten to taste. Steep three hours in a covered pitcher. If 
too thick put in cold water with the lemon juice and sugar. 
Ice for drinking. Mrs. Irving Frost. 

RICE JELLY. 

Mix 1 heaping tablespoonful of rice flour with a little 
water (smooth), pour into it slowly 2 small cups of boiling 
water. Sweeten to taste. Boil until clear. Flavor with lemon 
juice. Put into molds. 

Bellows F'alls Cook Book. 

sago toast. 

Boil in V2 pint of milk 1 teaspoonful of sago with a little 
salt. When boiled clear pour over toasted crackers. 

B. F. C. B. 

BREAKFAST DISH FOR the SICK. 

Let a slice of bread dry in the oven. Then toast brown. 



174 COOKERY CRAFT. 



Heat sweet cream or rich milk hot. Salt to taste. Pour over 
the bread, serve hot. J. J. A. T. 

BEEF TEA NO. 1. 

Cut 1 pound lean beef very fine. Put into farina kettle. 
Add IV^ pints cold water. Set in cold place. Let stand 
over night. Put into boiler of hot water and cook one-half 
hour. Take out beef and season the tea. 

Mrs. C. E. Putney. 

BEEF TEA No. 2. 

Two pounds best beefsteak cut very fine, trimming off all 
fat. Put in a quart glass jar pressing in lightly. Fill jar full. 
Then pour in cold water. Screw down the cover, put in 
steamer and cover closely, steam three hours. Strain through 
a cloth strainer, pressing but little. Set aw.ay to cool. Skim 
off every particle of fat that may be left on. Heat andserveas 
wanted. Mrs. Geo. Howe. 

LONG MADE BEEF TEA. 

Take 2 or 3 pounds of shin of beef. Remove all the skin, and 
the marrow from the bone. Cut the meat into small pieces 
and have the bone broken up. Take also a knuckle of veal, 
that is, just the knuckle bone. Have it broken up, and put all 
into a strong earthen jar. Place the jar in a large saucepan 
of boiling water and tie the cover down with a piece of stout 
brown paper. Use neither salt nor pepper. Let it boil slowly 
all day. When done the jar will be filled with meat gravy. 
Strain this and when cold it will be a strong jelly. In summer 
this may be served cold. In winter pour hot water over a 
portion and you have beef tea. This will keep a week in 
summer, in a cool place, and much longer in winter. 

Mrs. Ellen E. Kyburg. 

** 'Tis not enough to help the feeble up 
But to support him after." 

Timon of Athens, 



DISHES FOR THE SICK. 175 



CHICKEN AND BEEP BROTH. 

One small chicken, same weight in lean beef. Cut in small 
pieces. Boil four hours in water to cover. Strain through a 
colander. Salt and let cool. Remove all fat. Put 1 dessert- 
spoonful in a coffee cup and fill the cup with boiling water. 

Mrs. W. J. White. 

To remove grease from broths pass a piece of writing paper 
over the top, using several pieces. B. F. C. B. 

FLOUR ROLL. 

Tie 1 pint sifted flour in a stout bag, and boil ten hours. 
When done take out of bag and drv in w^arm oven. Very good 
to make gruel, also for children and babies having any 
bowel trouble. 

CRACKER PUFF. 

Six crackers, 1 quart new milk, a pinch of salt. Butter a 
pudding dish. Put the crackers in the dish. Pour the milk 
over the crackers, put into a slow oven, cook until the crackers 
are a light puff. Serve hot. L. O. P. 

Put into chicken and lamb broths just a bit of soda when 
given to the sick, to prevent any acidity in the stomach. 

L. 0. P. 

INVALID'5 SOUP. 

One cup barley or oatmeal, 1 pound juicy lean beef. Cut 
the beef fine. Cook in double boiler (covered tightly) one hour. 
Cook barley in double boiler one hour in 1 pint of water. 
Strain beef, add bark}' broth, season to taste. 

Mrs. Matthews. 
white soup. 
1 pint new milk. 1 teaspoonful cornstarch. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

Cook milk and cornstarch in double boiler ten minutes. 
Beat the whites, add quickly, take from fire, beat all together, 
season with salt. 



176 COOKERY CRAFT. 



LEMON JELLY. 

1 box gelatine. 8 lemons — only the juice. 

1 pint cold water. 2 oranges — only the juice. 

1 quart boiling water. 2 cups sugar. 

Pour the cold water over the gelatine, let stand one-half 
hour, then pour on boiling water, stir until all dissolved, add 
sugar, lastly the fruit juice, strain and set on ice, or in a cool 
place. 

GELATINE AND ARROW ROOT FOR BABIES. 

One dessertspoonful gelatine soaked in ^ cup of cold 
water ten minutes. Add 1 pint boiling water. Boil ten 
minutes. One dessertspoonful arrow root dissolved in cold 
water and stirred into gelatine. Add 1 pint milk and just 
bring to a boil. Add 2 small teaspoonfuls of sugar and a 
pinch of salt. Mrs. French. 



TIMELY SUGGESTIONS. 



MRS. S. W. HALL. 




** He has carried every point who has mingled the 
useful with the agreeable." — Horace. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

One pint or 2 cups of granulated sugar (or 2 heaping 
cups powdered sugar) is 1 pound. 

One quart sifted flour, 1 pound. 

Two cups butter packed, 1 pound. 

Eight even tablespoonfuls, 1 gill. 

To measure a spoonful of dry material (all flour, meal, salt, 
spice and soda should be sifted before measuring), shake it 
till it is rounded over in the same proportion as the spoon is con- 
cave. A scant teaspoonful is leveled ofl" with a knife. One- 
half spoonful is divided through the spoon lengthwise. 
13 



17H COOKERY CRAFT. 



PICKLED MEAT No. 1. 

G gallons water. 9 pounds coarse salt. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 1 quart molasses. 

1 ounce saleratus. 100 pounds meat. 

3 ounces saltpetre. 

This should be skimmed while boiling and the meat, tightly 
packed, should have the brine poured on when it is cold. 

Mrs. Hknry Fairbanks. 

PICKLED HEAT No. 2. 

To 100 pounds meat take 6 gallons water, 9 pounds salt, 
3 ounces nitre, 1 ounce saleratus. 

Mrs. G. H. Taplin. 

5ausaqe meat. 

" This is so fantastic in its habit, so wedded to 
literature, science and speculation, that its name calls 
up a host of thoughts." 

25 pounds meat. V2 cup black pepper. 

V2 cup salt. 2 cups pulverized sa :j;e. 

Mrs. Wm. Clement. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into the double 
boiler; when nearly melted add IH cups of cheese cut fine, 
V2 teaspoonful mustard, a speck of cayenne. Stir all the time. 
Add V2 cup ale, beer or milk slowly. When smooth add 2 eggs 
well beaten. Serve hot on toast or toasted soda crackers. 

Mrs. Edward Ross. 

CHEESE FINGERS. 

Cut good pastr}' into strips three inches long and two 
inches wide. Strew with grated cheese, season with pepper and 
salt ; double the paste upon this lengthwise and bake in a 
quick oven. Brush over with beaten Qg^ just before taking 



TIMELY SUGGE'^riOXS! 179 

them up, and sift a little powdered cheese upon them. Pile^ 
log-cabin-wise, upon a folded napkin laid within a flat dish, and 
eat without delay^ as they are not good cold. 

CHEESE RELISH FOR TEA. 

To. 1 full cup of coarse bread crumbs add 3 cups sweet 
milk, a good sized piece of butter and 1 cup grated cheese. 
Put into a pudding dish, strew bread crumbs thickly over the 
top and then bits of butter and bake twenty minutes or till a 
rich brown. Serve hot. W. C. B. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAH IN COFFEE. 

Beat 1 t^f[, to a froth, add to it a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut and turn the hot coffee on it gradually. It is difficult 
to distinguish this from fresh cream. 

TOnATO TOAST. 

A delicious breakfast dish may be prepared by ptiring and 
slicing fine 5 or 6 small round green tomatoes, (if too large 
they will have a sour taste), boil for twenty minutes in plenty 
of water, season with plenty of butter, a little pepper and salt, 
and 1 or 2 beaten eggs. Then pour over well browned toast. 

N. M. H. 

EGG TOAST. 

To 3 well beaten eggs add 1 pint of milk and a little salt. 
Dip slices of bread in this mixture and fry in a hot, well but- 
tered frying pan till brown on both sides. Eat hot with butter. 

Mrs. Z. a. Richardson. 

COURTLAND BEEF. 

"I am a part of all that I have met." 

— Ten nyso n — Ulysses . 

Shred rare roast beef fine, leaving in some of the fat. Put 
in a small stew pan (which has been rubbed with a clove of 
garlic) a little water, V2 a small onion, pepper and salt; boil 
until the onion is quite soft, then add some of the gravy of the 



180 COOKERY CRAFT. 



meat and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have ready a hot 
dish with triangles of toasted bread laid around it; mix a lit- 
tle vinegar with the meat and serve. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

In summer when milk sours so rapidly, it can be made 
into very delicate little cheeses. Heat the loppered milk in a 
pan on the stove until a small quantity pressed in the hand 
will retain its shape, but be careful not to let it scald. Strain 
off the whey through a cloth, pressing it gently. Put the curd 
thus obtained into a dish and mold with the hands, after add- 
ing a little salt and a little cream or butter, till it will take the 
form of a mold. 

EA5TER EQQS. 

Make a quart of blanc-mange in the usual way. Empty 
12 Qgg shells through a small hole in one end and rinse well 
with cold water. Divide the blanc-mange into four parts. 
Leave one white; stir into another 2 beaten yolks; into a third 
chocolate ; into the fourth cochineal coloring. Heat the yellow 
over the fire long enough to cook the egg. Fill the shells with 
the various mixtures, three of each. Set upright in a pan of 
meal or flour to keep them steady, and leave until next day. 
Then fill a glass bowl more than three-fourths full with nice 
lemon jelly, broken into sparkling fragments. Break away the 
egg shells, bit by bit, from the blanc-mange. If the insides of 
the shells have been properly rinsed and left wet, there will be 
no trouble about this. Pile the vari-colored "eggs" upon the 
bed of jelh\ lay shred preserved orange peel, or very finely 
shred candied citron about them, and surprise the children with 
them as an Easter day dessert. 

CHURCH SOCIALS. 

For one hundred and fifty persons, 350 rolls or tea biscuit, 
2 boiled hams, or 1 large ham and 10 pounds cold pressed corn 
beef, (if sandwiches are preferred, use 30 loaves baker's bread 



TIMELY SUGGESTIONS. 181 

and 1 large boiled ham) 5 pounds of butter, 8 quarts cream, 6 
quarts pickles, 4 pounds coffee, $1 worth of sugar, 12 loaves 
of cake. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

*' I find a vast chaos and confusion of receipts and 
magistrals * * ♦ some of the chiefest of which I 
will now rehearse — beginning with Helleborismus 
Matthioli." — Burton. 

To remove the skins from cooked beets, let them lie a few 
moments in cold water and the skins will slip off easily. 

Boiling onions in milk and water diminishes the strong 
taste. 

A piece of red pepper the size of a filbert dropped into meat 
or vegetables when first put on to cook will aid in destroying 
bad odors. 

A small piece of charcoal in the pot with boiling cabbage 
removes the bad odor. 

A little cream tartar improves frosting. Also to keep eggs 
cool is a great help. 

To make whites of eggs beat up quickly add a pinch of salt. 

Eat salt with nuts, and take it after eating them, for indi- 
gestion. 

When canning fruit set your glass jars in a pan of warm 
water or on a folded cloth which has been dipped in cold water. 

Sprinkle a little flour over suet when chopping to prevent 
the pieces from sticking together. 

Keep cranberries in cold water in a cool place. Will keep 
for weeks. 

Dishes prepared with new milk should not be salted until 
ready to remove from the stove, as salt wifl curdle new milk. 

"Milk adulterated from the pump is worth lef^s 
than pure mWk. ''—Encyc. Britan. IX th Edition, 
Vol. vii. 

Browned flour should be kept on hand to use for thicken- 



182 COOKERY CRAFT. 



ing. Prepare by putting a little dry flour in the oven on a 
dripping pan, stir it occasionally and cook until it is all a light 
brown. 

To stone raisins easily pour boiling water over them. 

In baking cake set a dish of water in the oven with it, and 
it will seldom scorch. 

Two apples kept in the cake box will keep cake moist for a 
great length of time, if the apples are changed when withered. 

In making puddings or pancakes snow (2 tablespoonfuls) 
stirred in quickly is equal to 1 egg. 

There is no economy in purchasing brown sugar. The 
additional moisture 'it contains more than makes up for the 
difference in price. 

COLOGNE WATER. 

60 drops oil of lavender. 60 drops oil ot bergaraont. 

60 drops orange flower water. 60 drops oil of lemon. 

HAIR TONIC. 

A good tonic for the hair is a teaspoonful of salt in a half 
pint of water, applied to the hair two or three times a week. 

Hair tonic 2. — "Do^s' teeth, over- ripe dates, asses' 
hoofs, equal quantities, cooktd in oil and made fine." 
^Family Medicine Book ofSchesch, Mother ofTeta, 
King of Egypt, B, C. 3700. 

The juice of a ripe tomato will remove stains from the 
hands and whiten them. 

MEDICINAL. 

Paroxysms of coughing may be prevented by swallowing 
a little dry salt. 

If one is fatigued, the best restorative is hot milk. A tum- 
bler of the beverage as hot as it can be sipped. 

BURNS. 

There is nothing more soothing for a burn or scald than 
the white of an egg. 



TIMELY SUGGEST loss 183 

Another remedy is to beat the whit^ of an tgg with a piece 
of alum till it forms a curd, and apply it to the burn, changing 
often. Use the piece of alum as a spoon. 

FOR STINQS OF INSECTS. 

Wash the part with water of ammonia; washing venomous 
bites with strong solution of salt and water; in bad cases, 
inserting the salt itself into the wound is recommended. 

POULTICE. 
1 teaspoonful mustard. 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 

4 teaspoonfuls graham meal. 

Mix with hot water. Mrs. Harvlin Paddock. 

•* F'or this relief much thanks." — Hamlet. 
WASHING EMBROIDERED LINEN. 

When washing linen embroidered with white silk use cold 
water. It is the same with white woven silk. Keep hot water 
away from it and it will retain its purit}' of whiteness. 

All table linen embroidered with colored silks should be 
washed quickly in suds made with castile soap, rinsed thor- 
oughly then rolled in clean sheets and ironed immediately per- 
fectly dry. 

WASHING RED LINEN. 

In washing a red linen tablecloth put enough powdered 
borax into tepid water to make it feel slippery. Use no soap. 
Hang in shade after rinsing, and iron when almost dry. 

Clean kid gloves with gasoline, rubbing till dry. 

CLEANING DRESS GOODS. 

Half pail of warm water, 1 tablespoonful of ammonia, 1 ta- 
blcspo(»nful of salt, V2 cup vinegar. Mrs. J. M. Alvord. 

MILDEW. 

In removing mildew from clothes put a tablespoonful of 
chloride of lime in an earthen bowl, and add 4 quarts of cold 



184 COOKERY CRAFT. 



water. Stir with a wooden spoon till dissolved. Put mil- 
dewed article in and work it around with the spoon. Let it 
stay in the water till all the spots have disappeared, then 
throw into tub of cold water, wash well and rinse thoroughly. 
If the rinsing be thorough, the fabric will be uninjured. 

FRUIT STAINS. 

Fresh fruit stains may be removed from linen by pouring 
boiling water through the stained portion while it is still dry. 

INK STAINS. 

To remove ink stains apply lemon juice and salt and lay 
the article in the sun. 

OIL STAINS, 

To erase sewing machine oil from muslins, soak the spots 
and wash in cold water. 

FLAT-IRONS. 

Beeswax and salt will make flat-irons as smooth as glass. 
Rub sweet oil on them when you close your house. 

ABOUT THE HOUSE. 

To remove coating from inside of teakettle fill it with 
water, to which has been added a large piece of salsoda. Boil 
for about an hour. 

Hardwood floors may be kept bright by washing with 
skim milk. 

Clean oilcloths with milk and water. 

Hot water, containing a little chloride of lime, poured into 
drains twice a week will prevent all unpleasant odors. Cop- 
peras water may be used in the same way. 

In washing windows put soda into the water and the 
finger marks, putty stains, etc., will be easily removed. 

Scratches may be removed from highly polished furniture 
by rubbing with a woolen cloth saturated with boiled linseed 
oil. Shellac dissolved in alcohol ma v then beused as a varnish. 



TIMELY SUGGESTIONS. 185 



Remedy for scratches may also be found in Yonatt 
on the Horse. 

Common soda is good for polishing tinware. 
The white stains on inside of ice chest can be removed bv 
scouring with any of the scouring soaps and baking soda. 

GREASE SPOTS. 

1 quart boiling water. 1 ounce pulverized borax. 

V2 ounce gum camphor. Mrs. Henry Fairbanks. 

To take oil out of carpets or any woolen stuff, apply buck- 
wheat flour plentifully. Never put liquid of any kind to such a 
grease spot. 

Soot stains may be taken from the carpet by covering 
quickly with dry salt before sweeping. 

Straw matting is kept clean by washing with a clean cloth 
and lukewarm water, to which has been added a little salt. 

Salt sprinkled upon the carpet before sweeping will make 
it look bright and clean. 

A teaspoonful of aqua ammonia (hartshorn) in the hot 
suds of the dish-pan will remove grease instantly and give a 
fine polish to silver and glass. 

The most satisfactory dusters are made of five cent cheese 
cloth, cut one yard long and neatly hemmed. 

To drive away ants, take essence of anise seed, put on cloths 
and hang in the pantry where ants are troublesome. Also, 
sprinkle oil of pennyroyal about the places infested. As this is 
a'poison care must be taken in the use of it. 

TO DESTROY nOTHS (OR BUGS) IN CARPETS. 

Wring a coarse towel out of clean water, spread it smoothly 
over the carpet and iron with a hot iron, changing the iron 
often. Repeat on all parts of the carpet suspected. The color 
of the carpet will not beinjuredand the moths will be destroyed 
bv the steam from the hot iron. 



186 COOKERY CRAFT. 



CONUNDRUM FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 

How to make nice light, nutritious griddle cakes without 
any of the ordinary liquid mixings or means of raising. No 
water, milk, eggs, yeast or baking powder of any kind. Such 
were the cakes made by a baker named Wm. Brackett, who 
used to practice his trade to good advantage in a domestic 
way. S. H. Brackett. 

Answer to he looked for in the next issue of Cookery Craft. 

'• With Stupidity smd sound Di>i:esti(>n injin may 
Iroiit much. Therefore on Cookery It t us build, * * 
br.'n]diphin«r our Fry'wii pan as Censtr, let us offer 
sweet Incense .""—Herr Tenfelsdrockh. 



COOKERY CRAFT. 



niSCELLANEOUSLY CONSIDERED. 



The historic basis and doctrine of Cookery are now tolera- 
bly well defined. Higher criticism has sighted the cook stove 
in Tubal Cains' blacksmith shop, though not then advanced to 
the six rimmer stage. The evolution of the doughnut may be 
distinctly traced by an imaginative mind in the Aryan Sun 
Myths relating to theannularsolareclipse. If the interesting but 
obscure allusion in the XI Vth Fragment of Sanchuniathon refers 
to athen prevalent custom of giving bread with one fish ball, we 
have evidence not only of the liberal usages of the ancients, 
but of their early culinary mastery of the codfish. It is to be 
regretted that Homer's mention of nectar as an article of high 
diet does not include the Olympian flapjacks, though to our 
mind the inference is sufficiently clear. We may also reason- 
bly conjecture that pie attained a supreme development in the 
Hellenic culinary culture from the fact that the Nine Muses 
were Pie-rides. It was not till the last century that a poet 

arose who ventured to say, "Touch not the Pie !" seeing 

that a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. 

We detect symptoms of craft entering into the domain of 
Cookery as early as 1792 B. C, when it was proposed to get 
venison out of Jacobean goat. Ethically considered this was 



188 COOKERY CRAFT. 



so manifestly retrograde that we repudiate it. Under due 
restriction, however, it cannot be doubted that Cookery offers 
a legitimate field for craft, making it possible and proper to 
convert cheese into Welsh '*rabbits" and oyster into blanketed 
pig; zoological achievements quite transcending the skill of 
primitive man. 

Remondino, in his treatise on human life, astutelj'^ remarks 
that discovery of the art of Cooking lengthened man's bill of 
fare, though not perhaps his life, for now appear the first 
rumblings of gastric discontent.* He also points out that 
when man became an anthropophagic connoisseur he parted 
with somewhat of the optimism enjoyed under his primitive 
diet of berries and grasshoppers. 

While this may be measurably true it is to be taken with a 
grain of salt. Anthropophagianism and grasshopper, how- 
ever optimistic, do not meet all the demands of an eclectic 
taste. The man of today has by scientific tests discovered 
that his mouth is capable of 2187 muscular variations. This 
he interprets as an invitation to various and voluminous diet 
as well as oratory. The result is that in the course of his years 
he eats up 4 H tons of bread and butter, 59, HOG hen's eggs, 
1556 fish, not including six-inch trout, 98,937 oysters, sweet- 
est morsels of the night, 22,671 winged fowl, 482 sheep, rams, 
lambs and beef cattle, 77 pigs, 6V2 tons of onions, potatoes, 
turnips and squash. This is exclusive of fruits and peanuts 
which, with other items, give a total of 54 tons which the man 
will eat if he be not prematurely cut off during the process or 
by it. This calculation is based on the estimates of M.Soyher, 
slightl}^ varied from the Gallic to American gustatory stand- 
ards. Nor can it be regarded large if we consider the immense 
demand at the present time for vital force — incalculable 
amounts of which are now known to be run off on bicvcles, 



* Carlyle seems to have arrived at the like conclusion. *'I came forth 
with the direful persuasion that I was miserable owner of a diabolical ar- 
rangement called a stomach." 



MISCELLANEOUSLY CONSIDERED 189 



political jobbery and the newspaper portrait department of 
the great modern folk cures. 

The problem of the age therefore resolves itself to this: 
how properly to feed contemporaneous man, adjusting sup- 
ply to demand in 2187 muscular mouth movements; at the 
same time maintaining the ideal stomachic harmoniousness on 
which the stability of our institutions may be said to depend. 
This phase of sociological study lies clearly within the domain 
of woman's sphere: a brilliant solution of its mysteries may 
therefore be looked for along with the expert application of 
the principles of Cookery Craft. E. T. F. 





Pianos 

and 
Organs 

In Northern 
New Ensriand. 



Office and Warerooms : 

BURLINGTON and 
ST. JOHNSBURY, Vt. 



Housekeepers 

Our Flavoring Extracts are stronger than the bottled extracts 

and will go farther. Our Baking Soda the best that money will 

buy. Our Cream of Tartar is chemically pure and of fine quality. 

These are all goods we can recommend. 

WALKER'S STMDARD DRI'G STORE 

109 Eastern Avenue. 



Bundy's Shoe Store 

Contains all widths in Ladies' Shoes, from A to EE, and sizes 
from 2V^ to 9. Special attention is called to our Ladies' Warm 
Lined Shoes, because they are of good style and are pretty, which 
is something new for a warm shoe. A dressy, handsome, warm 
shoe supplies a long ielt want. Obtained only at 

BUNDY'S SHOE STORE, 

^MAIN STREET. 



Rule for Making a Fortune 

Take a five-dollar bill and four one-dollar bills 
— two-dollar bills may be used if more convenient 
— and, after folding them out smoothly, deposit 
them in the 

<• Passumpsic Sanings Bank •^ 

Do not disturb this deposit, but allow it to re- 
main at least ten years — adding each month as 
many one, two, five, or ten dollar bills as you can 
spare— and allow the semi-annual dividends and the 
deposits to mix thoroughly together, and at the end 
of the period you will have a small but a well- 
seasoned Fortune. 

MAIN ST., ST. JOHNSBURY, Vt. 



Lapier's Ticket Agency _^^ 

For mileages on all New England railroads. — Money 
saved on tickets West.— Courteous attention.— Re- 
liable information. 

Eastern Avenue 



E. H. ROSS 
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON 

24 MAIN STREET 
ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



.China Firing 



DECORATING TO ORDER. LESSOSS IN OIL AND CHINA 
PAINTING. CHINA FOR SALE. 

rXiss Helen F. Shaw 

13 Belvidere Street (South Park) 

St. Johnsbury, Vt. • 



JOHN M.ALLBN 
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON 

24 RAILROAD ST. 
ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 

2 



To riake a Suit of Clothes 



o o o o o o o 



Medium-sized Pocketbook 

One pair of Legs 

Well balanced mind placed in a good sound Body. 

Shake well and bring to 



<^Wilson & King 



CITIZENS' SAYINGS BANK AND TRUST CO. 

^^^. —-7-. 7-^^. :^- r^-T-; ^7-7-. ; •► 

OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 

C. M. CHA.SB, President. A. L. BAILEY, Vice-President. 

JOHN T. RITGHIB, Treasurer. J. G. HOVEY. 

GEO. P. BLAIR. JAMES RITCHIE. 

C. E. JOSLYN. D. R. DENSMORE. 

• 

Capital Stock $50,000 00 

Undivided Profits 35,000 00 

Deposits 1,000,000 00 

Four per cent, interest paid on Saviners accounts. 

We receive accounts subject to check. 

Deposit boxes to rent, $3.00 and $5.00 a year. 

• ••• V 

A— ^ m Take equal parts of good work- 

1-^1*^^ mk manship, well mixed with experi- 

■ ence and proper sanitary material, 

^ W putting in money enough so that 

^gt^T l^g f the mixture will not be too thin, 

\ making a plumbing job that will 

^ I be *' well done" and warranted to 

T/^l* I please. If you want such a recipe 

\ call on us. 

Sickness \ a.b.noyes&co. 

W ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 

• ••• 1 

3 



THE RECEIPTS IN THIS BOOK 



-•► 



Are all right, but to ensure the best success use pure, 
strong Flavors, the best of Spices, a touch of Color, 
and Good Judgment. We can furnish all the 
requisites except good judgment. Call and see. 



<•- 



Bingiiam's Dru|r Store 



1-2 the Success^^ 

Of good cooking lies in the quality of the 
.'. materials. I sell only the best of .*. 

Meats, Game and Provisions 

J. e. GKAg, A3 Main Street 



Domestic 

Rfll^^l*V ^^^^ While vou are reading don't 

LICIIVCI J". — ^m f^^^^^ -^j,^^ L F. GASKILL 

is never behind on all kinds 
of FINE BAKING, and any kind that 

cannot be found in this book you may CO A/I#i2«^ 

expect to find at the Domestic Bakery, ^^^ iYlfllrl 

.Street 



WILLIAM DANIELS 

• • Dealer in Western and Native • • 

Meats and Provisions 

CHOICE . CUTS . A . SPECIALTY 

Also Groceries, Vegetables and Canned Goods. 



94 Railroad St., St. Johnsbury, Vt, 

4 




PILLSBURY'S 



Is the best 
flour made in America to- 
day. If you do not be- 
lieve it try a barrel and be 
convinced. It will niake 
better bread and more of 
it than any other flour 
made. 
We also handle such well known flour as Washburn's Best, 

Crocker's Best, Storer's Best, Elegant, Spotless, and others. 

Give us a call. Our prices are as low as the lowest. 






X H. MTOD MILLING CO. 






-••- 



KENNEDY'S 
SUPERIOR • 
BISCUIT 



( Are Absolute Purity.) . 

Li^ht, dainty and unique. 
Put up in handsome . . 
and convenient one . . 
pound packages 






f * Pure food products 
i are essential." 



KENNEDY'S 

NEW 

SOCIETY 

AND 

SARATOGA CHIPS 






Manufactured by 

THE AIBW yO"RK BISCUIT CO. 

Cambrldgeport, Mass. 

•• •• 



soeaR-'MILK 

BAKING POWDER 



" leai ftiem ill 




AT 



WORLD'S FAIR, 

CHICAGO, 1893. 



-•► 



THE JUDGE REPORTED ITS 

LFAVENING POWER . . . 15.64 
Next HighEvST Only . . . 14.22 

ONLY Powder Exhibited Completely Dis- 

solving: in Hot Water WITHOUT 

SEDIMENT. 



• — IT was not found to contain a grain 
of impurity, and hence its higher leavening 
power. — • 

• •••// Cooks fail with SUGAR OF MILK POWDER it will always 

be from using too much. Biscuits, Pies, and Cake made with it have a 

finer flavor than those made from stuffed powders. • • • • 



X^H. D. THATCHER & CO., Potsdam, N. Y. 




It won't Beat Eggs 

For Your Dainty Dishes, but our 

V. F..M. BABCOCK 



TESTER 



Does Beat the World 

For ASCERTAINING the RICHNESS of MILK. 



For Ease of Operation, for the Facility with which the Required 
Speed is obtained, for Accuracy and Simplicity, it is Unequaled. 
Only 40 turns of the crank per minute gives the bottle-head 1120 
revolutions per minute, a higher speed than the scientists say is 
necessary to obtain accurate results. Write for our Special Book 
on Babcock Testers. 

• • VERMONT FARM MACHINE CO., 

BELLOWS FALLS, VT. • • 

Manufacturers of Cooley Creamers, Davis Swing Churns, Separa- 
tors, and everything for the dairy and creamery. 



U. S. Clothes Pin Co.^^ 

The U.S. SPRING 
CLOTHES PINS 

Never Smut, Rust, Break, 

Split, Freeze on, or Blow 

off the Line. 

Will hold the clothes in a blizzard. Those who use them once will use 

no other. Send for samples and price list. Manufactured by 

^THE UNITED STATES CLOTHES PIN CO., 

MOAITPELIE-R, VT., U. S. A. 




Mrs. HELEN F. CARPENTER, 

DECORATVE ART 
NEEDLEWORK. 

Novelties in Hon it on Lace Work. 
Tea Cloths, Table Squares. 
Scarfs and Tray Cloths. 

Embroidery Silks. 
Yams and Germantown Ribbons. 
Plush Balls, Baskets. 

Christmas Novelties. 

Mrs. HELEN F. CARPENTER, 

ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



J.HALLEg acCO. 

Dry Goods and Millinery. 

in Y. M. C. A. Block. 
For • 

NEW MILLINERY, 

DRESS GOODS, 

LADIES' and CHILDREN'S HOSIERY, 

ALL KINDS OF 

INFANTS' WEAR, 
GLOVES AND UNDERWEAR, 
• Go to 

J.HALLEgatCO., 

y.M. e. A. Block, 

ST. JOHNSBURY. VT. 

• • 



^Not Good, Nor Better, But BEST I 

The Best Ooods In 

SILVERWARE, JEWELRY, CUT GLASS, . . . 

.... BLANK BOOKS and STATIONERY 

• * Can be had at * • 

. ^ A. D. Rowell Co.'s, 

Cor. Hain St. and Eastern Ave., . ST. JOHNSBURY. 

7 



CALL FOR. 



inuhic-iv: ir7\/ 



!: ir::\: :•%:.••.: ij^ 



CRACKERS. 



I 
I 



A WOriANLY WEAKNESS. 

Woman's Hesire for the pretty things 
in Jewelry has come to be proverbial. 
Men have the same leaning, 

but they disguise ^ it. Just the same, 
a man, or a woman either, 

appreciates a gift of a Watch or piece of 
Jewelry. For the best come to our store. 

T. C. SPENCER, 

45 Railroad Street, St. Johnsbury, Vt. 



If You Want 

Any Kind Of 



INSURANCE 



Call on 

-%^CHA8. S. HASTINGS, 

. . Over Post OtSce . . 
ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



F. N. BROWN, 



H OUSE FURNISHING pODS, 
Croclery, Hardware anil &roceries. 



... 49 MAIN STREET. 



DON'T SCRATCH 

LIKE A HEN-^^ 

.'. .'. .*. With that horrid old pen, but come into 

our store and look the stock 6*er All the pens 

that we sell will write easy and well And if 

paper you need we can suit you, indeed, for the best 

writers dote on our splendid Cream Note It is 

smooth to the pen of both women and men, and, as 
sure as you live, satisfaction will give. .'. .'. .*. .'. 

.'. .'. .'. Most every visitor who looks through our 
unequaled stock of Books will £nd a volume that will 
please — his reading appetite appease. Our Novels, Trav- 
els, Works of Love, Romances, modern and of yore, our 
Tales of risk by land and sea, and handsome books ot 
Poetry are pretty gifts to make to friends — such gifis as 

pleasure oft attends Our prosy poet asks you 

all to make on us an early call for anything that's in 
our line, for which you may at times incline. .'. .'. 

.'. .'. .'. We are also agents for the Photographic 
Reproductions of Works of Art published by the Soule 
Photograph Company. . . . We keep constantly on 
hand a large line of these goods at their regular prices. 

F. O. CLARK 

BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER 
PYTHIAN BUILDING 
ST. JOHN8BURY, VT. 



Griswold, Pearl & Co., 

FLOUR, GRAIN, FEED, 

KEROSENE OIL, ETC. 



'The proof of the Pudding 
is in the eating.** 

O O O O O O O 



If you are pleased with the typographical 
appearance of 

COOKERY CRAFT, 

Remember that it was printed at **The 
Caledonian '' o£Sce. 

o o o o o o o 

We do all kinds of Job Printing 
in a stylish manner. 



asBSase ^ 



HAVE YOU EVER 
UvSED THE.- 



* Twin 
Dress 5tay 



AC 



THEY WERE ALWAYS 0000.^%^^^ 

THEY ARE BEING MADE BETTER THAN EVER. 
WE HAVE THEM, Covered with Satin, tor 25c. Set. 



I Lougee Bros. 
; 3c Smythe - 



Agents for Domestic Patterns 
. . . and Publications. . . . 




1 

! 



Drouin^s Block, 

Railroad Street. 



1 



A Tailor 's Goose is Cooked 

•^^^^ ^' 

WHEX HIS WORK IS POORLY DOXE 
,\ We aim to Excel in Workwansbip and all the 
Aixessories wbicb sro to make up 6ne garments. Our prices 
are as low as tor interior work. 

J. S. MEIGS, 

Music Hall. 



10 



E. C. PIERCE & CO. 



Fashionable • Millinery 



FANCY GOODS, 

RIBBONS, LACES, GLOVES, 5ILKS, VELVETS, and WORSTEDS. 

^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ST, JOHNSBURY, VT. 



VISIT ==^ 

HARRY H. CARR'S DRY GOODS STORE, 

For COTTON. WOOL, and SILK DRESS GOODS, 
UNDERWEAR, HOSIERY, GLOVES, HOUSE- 
HOLD GOODS, AND OUTSIDE GARMENTS for 
MISSES AND LADIES. 

75 RAILROAD STREET, 

-St. Johnsbury, Vt. 



E. D. STEELE & CO.^*- I 

41 MAIN STREET I 

ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. I 

4 CLOTHIERS, HATTERS & GENTS' FURNISHINGS b 

1 «« TRUNKS « BAGS « « I 

1 Largest Stock and Lowest Prices in Town or County. f 

IF YOU ARE IN 

Want of a first-class job of Plumbing, Steam, 
or Hot Water Heating, or if you are thinking of 
buying a New Stove, or a First-Class Range, 
call on 

FARNHAM & ALBEE, 

16 PORTLAND STREET, 
-^^:^<:::^ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 

11 



E. & T. FAIRBANKS k CO. 



.*. .*. .*. Special attention is called 
to our large stock of Carpets, • 

Body Brussels, Velvets, Tapestry Brussels, 
All-wool Extra Super Carpets. 

Also the "Agra" Wool Carpet, a new weave, extra 
heavy, supplying the place of the old three-ply, in much 
superior patterns and qualities. Straw Mattings. 
Special prices for Church Carpets. Samples sent and 
estimates given when requested. 
g3j. .*. /. .*. Our spring stock of 

♦-♦-WALL PAPERS-*-* 

arrives January 1. Patterns and colorings will be more 
desirable than ever. Prices from 7V^. a roll up. Lace 
Curtains. Heavy Drapery Curtains. Window Shades 
made to order to fit any size window. 

Full Line of Upholstery Goods. 

.'. .'. .*. Furniture of all kinds re- 
paired. Mattresses made and renovated and Carpets 
laid by a practical upholsterer. 



E. & T. FAIRBANKS k CO. 



New Dry Goods Store, 

Main Street, 

St. Jolinsbury, Vt. 



12 



• ••- 



Merchants' Nat'l Bank 

ST. JOHNSBURY. Vr. 






Capital, $300,000.00. 

• YOUR • BUSINESS • SOLICITED. • 

L. D. HAZEN, PresH. 
,^^, W. L. PEARL, Vice PresH. 

H.W. ALLEN, Cashier. 



. . . OF , . . 

SAINT JOHNSBURY, VT. ^ 

Capital, $400,000. 

Surplus, $53,500. 

OFFICERS ► 

FRANKLIN FAIRBANKS, President 

A. H. McLEOD, Vice-President 

HOMER E. SMITH, Cashier. 



DIRECTORS ► 

A. H. McLeod Chas. H. Stevens 

Franklin Fairbanks Delazan D. Wead' 

Walter P. Smith John C. Clark 

Samuel N. Brown. 



Accounts of Corporations, Firms, and Individuals Solicited. 
Ladies' and Family Accounts are Especially Invited. 

13 



C. F. GIBBS 




Grower of and dealer in FLOWERING and VEGETABLE PLANTS. 
CUT FLOWERS and FLORAL DESIGNS A SPECIALTY. Wed- 
dings, Parties, and Funerals supplied. I arrange flowers in the latest 
and best style to ^o with safety at all seasons. My facilities are such 
that I can furnish flowers to almost any amount on short notice. 
For immediate attention order by telegraph, telephone, or special 
delivery. Send for Price List. N. B.— Please mention this book or 
where you have seen advertisement. 

^ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 



Furniture 



FINEST LINE OP ... . 

PARLOR SUITS 

OAK & ASH CHAMBER SUITS 

DINING ROOM FURNITURE 

And UNDERTAKING in all its branches 
to be found in town. 

HALL & STANLEY, 

.Music Hall. 




TO * LIGHT 
YOUR' 



IN THE MOST SATISFAC- 
TORY MANNER BUY THE 
CELEBRATED 

"B. & H." 

LAMPS. 

Made in every style and 

at Prices to suit all 
parses. All. Dealers sell 
them. They are made by 

BRADLEY & HUBBARD flFG. CO., 

NEW YORK \ FACTORIES AND OFFICES : 

!SPJa°g''o { MERIDEN. CONN. 

PHILADELPHIA) Write for our Little Book. 




14 



W. J. ALDRICH, M. D. 



PHgSieiA/M A/MB SURGEO/N, 

OFFICE IN PYTHIAN BLOCK. 

hours: 8 TO 10 a.m.; 2 to 3. and 7 to 9 p. m. 

RESIDENCE AT NO. 7 CHERRY STREET. 

Special Attention given to all kinds of Surgical Work, 



BANK BI,OCK, 27 MAIN STR^^T, 
SAINT JOHN8BURY. 



FRANK Q. LANDRY 

DRUQOISX AND PHARiVE AGIST, 
83 RAILROAD ST., ST. JOHNSBURY, VT. 

PURE DRDSS. FANCY and TOILET ARTICLES, 



PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY. 



-^^7-. H. lv£0"CriL.T02?T, 
Practical Painter and Paperhanger 

Dealer In Wall Paper, Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Etc. 
80 RAILROAD ST., - - ST. JOHSSBVRY, Vt. 



BOg/NTOM 3t EASTMA/N, 

<• PHARMACISTS *- 

Dealers in Drugs, Chemicals, and Patent iledicines. 

Druggists' Sundries, Stationery, 

Quns, Ammunition, Fishing Tackle, Knives, Shears, Razors 

and Window Glass. 

36 & 33 EASTERN AVE., ST. JOHNSBURY. Vt. 

15 



Ag^f^^4- XPA^^^.yP"!!^*^?^^" J^'urnisbin.jrs at CAR- 



Why UUll t PENTER'S, Pythian Building. 89 Eastern 
Avenue, St. Johnsbury, Vt.? A full line of 

Achate Ware, Tinware, Wooden ware, and Hardware of all kinds. 

Remember, mj' Repair Shop is always open and ready to do all your 

repairing. If you want your house heated or plumbed we 

can do it and do it well. A full line of Boynton Furnaces O O 

and Heaters always on hand • • 






The ^^ 

^ Blodgett 
Insurance Agency 



-St. Johnsbury. 



A WORD TO COOKS. 

Tell your butcher to send his hides and tallow to 
me. If by doing this you influence a new customer to 
deal with me I will send you $5 if the business aggre- 
gates $100 for a year, or a proportionate sum if less. 

The Publishers of this book know me and will as- 
sure you that my offer will be kept in good faith and 
that you can conscientiously commend me as at least 
having the reputation of being the largest dealer in 
my line in the United States. 

CARROLL S. PAGE, 
Oct. 15, 1894. Hyde Park, Vermont. 

16 



F 



Pure ^^ ^ 
Groceries 



¥F THERE is one thing that the people of this 
* generation want, it is pure food products. 

We have the largest stock of groceries in the 
State, and they are the best that money can 
buy. 

We have established a reputation for honest 
dealing, anrl this reputation is as widely known 
as our name. 

Having the largest and best equipped gro- 
cery store in Vermont, we can suit our cus- 
tomers on whatever they may want in our line, 
whether it be butter, poultry, aj^ples, pork, flour, 
or the general staple line of groceries. 

Let us have your trade and we will prove to 
you that we can please you. 

E. & T. FAIRBANKS & CO. 



▼ ▼ ▼ ▼ ▼ 




17 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMKNTS. 





Page 


F. G. Bundy, 


1 


A. L. Bailey, 


1 


Standard Dru^ Store, 


1 


Dr.J. M.Allen, . 


2 


Dr. E. H. Ross, . 


2 


Miss Shaw, . 


2 


Pass. Savings Bank, . 


2 


La pier's Agency, . 


2 


A. B. Noyes & Co., 


3 


Wilson & King, . 


3 


Citizens Savings Bank, 


3 


William Daniels, . 


4 


L. F. Gaskill, 


4 


C. C. Bingham, . 


4 


J.C.Gray, . . 


4 


New York Biscuit Co., 


5 


A. H.McLeod Milling Co., 


5 


Vt. Farm Mach. Co., 


6 


H. D. Thatcher & Co., 


6 


U. S. Clothes Pin, 


7 


J. Halley & Co., . 


7 


A. D. Rowell, 


7 


Mrs. Helen F. Carpenter, 


7 


F. N. Brown, 


8 


C. S. Hastings, 


8 


T. C. Spencer, 


8 





Page 


Geo. H. Cross, 


. 8 


F.O.Clark, . . 


. 9 


Caledonian, . 


. 9 


Griswold, Pearl & Co., 


9 


Lougee Bros. & Smythe, 


. 10 


0. S. Abbott, 


. 10 


J. S. Meigs, . 


. 10 


Farnham & Albee, 


. 11 


E. C. Pierce & Co., 


. 11 


H. H. Carr, . 


. 11 


E. D. Steele & Co., 


. ii 


E.& T. Fairbanks&Co., 


. 12 


Merchants Bank, 


. 13 


First Nat'l Bank, 


. 13 


Bradley & Hubbard, . 


. 14 


Hall&Stanlev, . 


. 14 


C. F. Gibbs, . . 


. 14 


Frank Landry, 


. 15 


Boynton& Eastman, . 


. 15 


W.H. Moulton, . . 


. 15 


Dr. W.J. Aldrich, 


. 15 


Dr. Perkins, . 


. 15 


C. P. Carpenter, . 


. 16 


C. S. Page. . 


. 16 


P. D. Blodgett & Co , 


. 16 


Fairbanks Grocery, 


. 17 



v_ 



-ff 



