Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



^\\ 



C \ 




TEMPTING DISHES 



WORKS BY HRS. DE SALIS. 



:yin™yki 



iuoiu to higb art.' 
LA MODE. 



CAKES AND CONFECTIONS 

DOGS: a Manual for Amateur*. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 
• DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY A LA MODE. 
Crown Svo. H id. 
^-DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. Crown 

DRINKS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. U. Sst, 
^/ENTREES A LA MODE. Crown Svo. u. 6J. 

FLORAL DECORATIONS: Suggestions and Detciip- 

GARDENING A LA MODE. Crown Svo. Part I. 
Vkgitailu, ii. id. Puill, Kiuin. Crown Svo. .., id. 

NATIONAL VIANDS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. 

is. id. 
NEW-LAID EGGS: Hint, for Amateur Poullry 

Ham. CrowD Bra. ». id. 
OVSTERS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. u. 6V. 
PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Crown 

SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. u, b,t. 
-SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 

Crown Ivo. ■». id. 
SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 

Crown Svo. II. «•*. 

..TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES. 
Crown Sto. n. id, 

FOR EVERY 



LONGMANS, CRREN. ft CO. y, PiurniMn 






TEMPTING DISHES 



FOR SMALL INCOMES 



MRS de SALIS 



•II /t mttngtr; Ihtft lilt Frtnch iijlxf, and nwiviri'v '' — 
Jcnumu, Bluk Houm 



■EVE NTH IMPRESSION 



LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

39 1'ATKKNUSTKK ROW, LONDON 
NKW YOKK AND HOMllAY 

1899 

All rlfkn rttitvtd 



'I Ml- ' I '.'. MiliK 



I ' ! > . i ' 1 i ' » , . ; 

3647791* 

AETTOK, LRNffX AM) 

TIL4H5N FO I'M) AT JONS 

1 1B4« L 



PREFACE 



i 



i 



Tins little work Is not intended aa a cookery book 
in the usual acceptance of the word ; it is merely 
^ what the title indicates, viz. a few tempting and in- 
' expensive recipes within the scope of everybody's 
' v cookery, and which 1 have been induced to collect 
(J from many requests to do aa The plainest of 
( vj general servants should be able to manage- any of 
\ these dishes, and so vary the meals of those families 
1 having small incomes, whose purses cannot afford 
t- entrees, entremets, and savouries, and who would be 
^ f glad to have relishing dishes now and then ; and 
there is no reason why they should be debarred 
from them, as so many can be made easily and in- 
expensively. 

A few persons have remarked that in my 
d la mode series of Cookery Books (which the 
public have kindly made so popular) many of 
the recipes are too extravagant for short purses, 
but I may mention that in those little volumes there 
are recipes of all kinds to suit all incomes. A 
recipe is often pronounced extravagant if the cook 
sees cream In it ; but any cook who knows some- 
thing of the culinary art would understand that a 
UbJespoonfui of cream goes a long way in entrtei 



vl TKMPTWG DIStlHS. 

and mvourien, Tlw«« Uttlo Jugn at cream, prfw) 
nix pence, nold everywhere fi'/w, urn Invaluable, xiid 
when opened ili- / will keep quite frenh if plowl 
frt tli« cool and ntood in old water. If one i»f 
thene In xlwayn kept In tin; h'/une It will nut, I 
think, Ik; found Mil expennlve luxury, 

Kim- Aft f Hunt ration s I hod tint other 'lay a friend 
or two to dinner, mid one of thene little Jugn of cream 
winced to mttkn nix little crimen dc volallle with 
the white nance ; nomc wan lined for naiad drennlnu, 
h taldc&poonlul In »omc noup, a little whipped mm 
nome ui/rloA tartlet*, and there wan just enough left 
bit coffee A quart mould of cream tnity I"- made 
with one of the nliltlini; jtit/l'nln well whipped. To 
wIii|fthlN thick cream u little milk munt lie added to 
It There In aloo the (.'remain Gxnpany'n cream, 
of Stockholm, which keep* for nevcrul day* after 
being opened, 

cor ordinary *weei dMien tltc tient SwJnn milk 
In nlway* available ; two Ublenpoonfuln of It un- 
diluted will be ('mud wry riffc'.tlve Innleud of 
cream, and of amnm naven tlie Miliar, an It in already 
Kweeteued. There are many little tiling tlmt an 
(jreni. uld* and lioonn In the kit' hen, nuch an fnln- 
uUnlw., lined innleiid "f H'-hillne, lom/ito vinegar for 
flavouring, at)W rmillfi-ii, whl'li in im lti''X|*Pll*lw 
and firnt-rate "fiidlmrnt to heighten llw flavour 
of noupn, gruvie*, tot:. ; and above all I advise 
tnont ntrongly ibone who have to buy new stew- 

txus, Kti:., to have Ureden'n patent 11U ke| nteel 
ollowware ; it Is no clean and *i> ilumlile, and In 
Min ialiy adapted to clone rangea, I n<-vr my 
•elf tine the corrugated iron naiicepunn; they wear 



out no constantly, 

them ab'iit no lljiit lh'-y toon Ijecoii 



I the generality ofrookn knock 
mailable, mid 




PREFACE vll 

they can never be relined, and arc therefore unwhole- 
some. 

Upon all matters of cookery I shall be very 
pleased to give advice, and to explain any of the 
recipes in any of my books which may present 
difficulties to the cook, on receipt of a stamped 
directed envelope ; and if I can help the fine art of 
cookery, which cookery has become, by so doing I 
shall indeed have achieved a success. 

HARRIET A. DE SALia 




TEMPTING DISHES. 



Celery Soup. 

Take the white part of four heads of celery and cut 
into pieces an inchlong and put them into a saucepan 
with two onions peeled and sliced thin, four ounces 
of lean ham cut into dice, and a pint of nicely 
flavoured white stock. Boil until the vegetables 
are sufficiently soft to pulp them, press them through 
a sieve, and return them to the saucepan ; add three 
pints more stock, two ounces of butter, a seasoning 
of salt, white pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of 
flour which have been moistened to a thin smooth 
batter with a little cold stock or water. Boil again 
for half an hour, then skim if necessary, and add a 
teacupful of boiling cream or milk. 

Italian Soup. 

Cut the meat from a knuckle of veal ; break up 
the bones and make a broth of them ; take four or 
five slices of the lean of bacon (ham is better if 
handy) and lay them at the bottom of the stewpan, 
and upon them put the meat from the knuckle, with 
four carrots and three turnips sliced, a few pepper- 




1 TEMPTING DISHES. 

corns, a large onion stuck with four cloves and some 
celery leaves (or celery seed) ; cover down closely, 
and stew till the gravy is drawn out and the vegeta- 
bles tender ; then pour over the broth made from the 
knuckle-bones and cover entirely. Add six spoon- 
fuls of rice and stew for four hours ; pass the soup 
through a sieve and add vermicelli before serving. 

Kidney Soup. 

Cut about two pounds of ox-kidney into slices, 
and then into small neat pieces. Take some flour 
and season it well with salt and pepper; roll the 
kidney in this, and then toss them in a little good 
beef dripping over the fire for ten minutes, then add 
a turnip, a carrot, the white part of one leek, one 
onion, and a little outer leaf of celery all cut up 
fine. To this add a quart anda half (or more) thin 
stock or cold water. Bring to the boil, then simmer 
very gently for an hour and a half to two hours, 
skim carefully, when it will be ready to be served. 
When celery is not in season use celery seed. 

Onion Soup. 

Take medium-sized onions, one large parsnip, 
one carrot, one small turnip, a few peppercorns, 
two cloves, half a teaspoonful of salt, a rasher of 
ham or bacon (lean), a little bit of celery, or the 
seed when celery is not in season, a pint of milk, 
and about a quart or a little more of stock. Pre- 
pare the vegetables in the usual way and cut them 
into very small pieces ; chop the ham and put all 
into a large saucepan. Let all boil for a few minutes, 
throw in a little salt and skim thoroughly. In two 
hours the vegetables ought to be soft enough to 




TEMPTING DISHES. J 

pass through a fine sieve with the assistance of the 
liquid ; then return to a clean saucepan with the 
milk and stir till boiling. If not sufficiently thick 
one tablespoonful of cornflour may be mixed with 
a little cold milk, added to the soup and boiled for 
five minutes. Serve with fried bread. 



Puree of Poultry or Game. 

Take any remains of roast or boiled poultry or 
game that there may be in the larder, carefully free 
from bones and skin ; put the latter into a sauce- 
pan with an onion, some mixed herbs (powdered) 
and a teaspoonful of white stock or water, and boil 
gently until the liquid is reduced to half the quan- 
tity. In the meantime chop the meat very finely 
and put into a mortar with a piece of fresh butter, 
and salt and pepper to taste, and pound it to a 
smooth paste, moistening it with a little of the 
liquor from the bones, &c Rub the paste through 
a fine sieve and put in the saucepan with the re- 
duced gravy strained and six tablespoonfuls of 
milk, and thicken with a mixture of cornflour cooked 
in butter. Stir over the fire till quite hot 



Potato Soup. 

Take two pounds of potatoes weighed after 
being washed and peeled, the outer sticks of some 
celery, and a good-sized onion. Cut all up small, 
and put into a saucepan with a heaped-up table- 
spoonful of fresh butter and a seasoning of salt 
and pepper. Cover the pan closely and stew over 
a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring 



4 TEMPTING DISH US. 

frequently to prevent tliclr sticking or becoming 
coloured. Then pour over three pints of while 
stock and dimmer all until the vegetables are soft, 
I>iiww them through a fine sieve Into a clean sauce- 
pan, add a Uttlc more Halt if necessary, a breakfast - 
cupful of hot milk, and a large ta M ttipoonftd of 
minced parsley. Jioil up at once and servo very 
hot. 

Soup a la Rune, 
Make about a dozen or more very small force- 
meat bulla, by mincing very finely half a pound of 
lean veal and three ounces of beef suet. I*ut these 
Into a morlar with a little salt, pepper, minced 
parsley, and a pinch of mixed herbs. Mix and 
pound these to a smooth paste, moisten will) a 
well-beaten egg, and make this preparation up 
into the required number of balls. l'"ry these well 
In a little boiling dripping, drain them, and put 
aside till required. Chop very finely three small 
.11 h< hi-, and one miki I] < ;d>ha;;i', try llnin in a :;aui < 
pan with two ounces of butter till lightly coloured, 
[hen mix in as smoothly as possible two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Pour on it about two quails of 
nicely flavoured stock and stir over the fire till Hie 
soup boils, draw the saucepan on one side and 
allow the contents to simmer gently for thirty 
minutes or till the vegetables are quite soft, cut a 
nice slice of cooked ham or lean bacon into small 
neat dice, and place them with the forcemeat bulls 
at the bottom of lite sou p- tureen, pour over the 
boiling liquid and let ft stand for five minutes, 
then stir the soup round and nerve, A little finely 
Chopped tarragon (if to be had; sprinkled In Is an 
Improvement 



^1 




TEMPTING DISHES. % 

Sbeep'i Head Broth. 

Take out the brains and wash every part of 
the head well. Pierce the eyes and wash the skin 
well with the liquor which exudes from it. Scrape 
out the holes where the eyes have been, then put 
the head and trotters in a tub of clean water with 
a little soda and salt. Let them soak for some 
hours, then take them out and scrape them well. 
1'ut them into the pot with a gallon of water, a 
teacupful of green peas (when in season) and three- 
quarters of a teacupful of barley. Boil for three- 
quarters of an hour. Add half a turnip cut in 
slices, half a carrot, parsnip, and cabbage, cut very 
small, JJoil for an hour ; add leeks, celery, parsley 
cut small, and boil for another hour. 

Brodetto of Fish. 

Put some salad oil and some slices of onion 
into a saucepan, let the onion become a nice 
colour, then add some parsley and claret, or instead 
of claret some vinegar and water, and when it boils 
up add different kinds of fish. Season with pepper 
and salt, and let the whole simmer gently till done, 
Toast some slices of bread and place them in a deep 
dish and serve the fish with the sauce on them, 

Brochet of Smelts, 

Melt some butter and spread it on a dish, and 
dredge rasping* of bread on it, season with pepper 
and salt, chopped parsley and shalots. Over the 
Kindts pour a glass of wine (this can be omitted), 
a little Harvey and anchovy sauces, and some of 



fi TEMPTING DISHES. 

the above dressing or butter. Put them in the 
oven for a quarter of an hour, serve quite hot on 
a napkin and garnish with lemon and fried parsley. 

Eel au Gratin. 

Put some oyster sauce at the bottom of a pic- 
dish, then a layer of sliced eel, seasoned with 
pepper and a dash of nutmeg. Repeat the layers 
offish and sauce till the dish is filled, Cover with 
fine bread-crumbs, put little tabs of butter here 
and there, and bake for half an hour. 



Eels Stewed. 

Cut the eels into pieces about three inches 
long; stew them gently in a little broth or stock 
with a tcaspoonful of sweet herbs, When tender 
remove the eels and strain the stock, season with 
a little pepper and salt and a dessertspoonful of 
ketchup ; and, if possible, some port-wine dregs ; 
add also a little finely chopped parsley. Thicken 
the stock with a little brown thickening, skim off 
any fat, warm up the eels in the stock, and serve 
with some fried bread. 

Fish Quenelles. 

Ren ovc all skin and bones from any good cold 
fish ; pound say five ounces in a mortar till fine. 
Put the bones in a saucepan with a little water, 
pepper and salt, to make stock. When sufficiently 
done, strain it, and when cool soak in it two ounces 
of stale bread-crumbs, squeeze it out, stir over the 
fire in a small pan till dry without burning ; turn 
it into a basin and beat into it the yolk of an egg. 



TEMPTING DISHES. j 

When cold mix the fish into it, add a little pieca 
of butter, salt, pepper, a gratt of a nutmeg, and one 
whole egg. Shape the mixture into ovals like eggs 
with two tablespoons, and poach them in boiling 
water. Sauce can be served with them or not 

Haddock Souffle's, 

Have some puff paste patty cases, as for oyster 
patties, spread anchovy butter all round inside 
them, put in some dried haddocks, cut up very 
finely, and place on the top of each a cheese souffle 1 
mixture ; place in the oven and serve very quickly 
and hot. 

Mackerel with Black Butter. 

Take the mackerel and soak it for a couple of 
hours in oil, seasoned with pepper and salt, and 
then broil it, basting with the oil. For sauce melt 
a tablespoon ful of butter in a fryingpan till quite 
hot, fry some parsley in it and a tablcspoonful of 
vinegar and two of stock ; boil up and pour over 
the mackerel, and serve very hot 

Mussels a la Rochelle. 

Steep some mussels in oiled butter with a little 
lemon-juice or tarragon vinegar, cayenne, and an 
idea of shalot, then roll them separately in fine 
bread-crumbs, next in beaten egg, and then again 
in bread-crumbs, and fry a golden yellow. 

Salmon (cold remains). 

Butter a stewpan and put in one or two small 
sliced onions and a handful of finely cut vegetables, 



8 TEMPTING DISHES. 

as used for Julienne soup. Lay in the salmon cut 
in steaks, add a gill of stock and a glass of white 
wine (but it can be well made without). Stew the 
fish in this gravy for half an hour or till it boils. 
Strain the gravy when the fish is lifted out and 
thicken with butter and flour, add some seasoning 
and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, which pour 
over the fish ; strew some capers over and serve. 

Fillets of Sole &. 1'EspagnoIe. 

Bake the fillets for twenty minutes ; when cooked 
lay them flat on a dish and pour the following 
sauce over them : Cut up a Spanish onion in thin 
slices and mince it. Fry the onion in butter till 
quite cooked without its taking colour, then add 
some tomatoes, which have been peeled and the 
pips removed (there should be double as much 
tomato as onion), add pepper, salt, and a , little 
Nepaul pepper. Stir well on the fire till the 
mixture is dried up a little, but not too much. 
Make a heap of this on a dish, and round it arrange 
the fillets of sole. Strew a little finely minced 
parsley over all and serve. 

Sole au Gratin. 

Take a skinned sole, cut off the fins, wash and 
dry it in a cloth. Prick it with a knife both sides, 
take a sprig of parsley, half a shalot and mush- 
rooms, chop them all up finely, butter a baking- 
tin and sprinkle half the chopped-up mixture over 
it, lay the sole on it, sprinkle in the remainder over 
it, and add a squeeze of lemon-juice and one ounce 
of butter cut into small pieces, and over all two 



TEMPTING DISHES. 9 

tablespoon fuls of glaze ; put the dish in the oven 
for twenty minutes to half an hour, and then 
sprinkle over it some brown bread-crumbs and 
serve. 

Fillets of Sole a l'ltalienne. 

Bake the fillets for twenty minutes, lay them 
flat on a dish and pour the following sauce over 
them : Mince a couple of shalots quite fine and fry 
them to a pate straw colour, add two or three 
mushrooms finely minced, a little chopped parsley 
and the liquor in which the fillets were cooked. 
Let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, add a 
little salt and pepper, melt a small piece of butter 
in a saucepan and mix with it a little flour. Turn 
the sauce into this, let it give one boil up and It is 
ready. 

Fillets of Sole a la Reine. 

Take some fillets of sole, spread them on one 
side with a layer of stuffing made of bread-crumbs, 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt and cayenne, and a 
little beaten egg. Roll up the fillets of sole and tie 
each one round with tape, boil them in water with 
a little salt till tender, drain them and put them 
aside. 

Make a white sauce with a little stock thickened 
with flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold 
milk, add a small lump of butter, two cloves, pepper 
and salt, and a dust of coralline pepper ; let this 
simmer till flavoured ; strain, put back in the 
saucepan, add a spoonful of raw cream and the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Put the cooked fillets of 
sole in this sauce to get quite hot, but it must not 
boil after the cream and egg are added. Remove 




TEMPTING DISHES. 



the tape carefully, and dish the fillets set upright 
with the sauce round them. 



Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms. 

Take a piece of rumpsteak, cut it in slices three- 
eighths of an inch thick and trim them to shape and 
size of a mutton cutlet Melt some butter into a 
baking-tin, lay the fillets in this, and let them stand in 
a warm place for an hour or two. Then take them 
out and fry them in a very hot butter or good drip- 
ping, turning them so as to let both sides colour. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter and mix it with 
a tablespoonful of flour. Moisten with some good 
stock free from fat, add a little colouring (I'ansiennc 
is best and cheap) and about half a basketful of 
button mushrooms neatly trimmed and washed. 
Let the sauce cook till the mushrooms are done, 
add the juice of half a lemon, pour the sauce on 
the dish, heap the mushrooms in the centre and 
arrange the fillets round in a crown shape. 



Hashed Beef with Tomato Sauce. 

Make a tomato sauce by removing the pips 
from each tomato and the watery substance, put 
them into a saucepan with plenty of butter, pepper, 
salt, a bayleaf and some thyme, add a few spoon- 
fuls of either stock or gravy, keep stirring over the 
fire till all is reduced to a pulp, when it should be 
passed through a sieve and allowed to get cold. Cut 
thin slices of roast beef, which should be underdone, 
trim them as near as possible to the same size, lay 
them in a saucepan, sprinkle pepper and salt over 
and pour on the cold sauce. Put the saucepan 



TEMPTING DISHES. 1 1 

over a gentle fire and let the contents become 
slowly hot, then serve and garnish with fried sippets 
round the dish. 

Beefsteak Pudding. 

Make a paste of six ounces of chopped suet and 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, butter a pudding- 
basin and line it with the suet Flatten some 
rumpsteak and cut it into small pieces, also some 
ox-kidney. Put a good handful of flour on a 
board, well pepper and salt it, then roll each piece 
of steak and kidney in it, add some stock, cover 
with paste, tie it over with a buttered and floured 
cloth and boil for four hours. 

Stewed Beefsteak. 

Brown one pound of steak slightly in a fryingpan, 
then place it in a stewpan with a carrot, a turnip, 
and a large onion all sliced ; cover the meat with 
sufficient stock. Let it stew very gently and 
sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it before 
serving. Thicken the gravy with a little butter 
and flour and add a few port-wine dregs, a little 
mushroom catsup and Worcester sauce, and send 
to table with it carrots and turnips cut into shapes 
and cooked in stock. 

Beef Trifles. 

Take a pound of cold roast beef, mince it very 
finely, then put it into a basin and mix with it a 
seasoning of salt and pepper, three ounces of melted 
butter, two tablespoon fu Is of finely grated horse- 
radish, six tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs 
and a teaspoonful of minced onion. Mix these 




II TEMPTING DISHES. 

ingredients thoroughly, then moisten well with 
beaten eggs. Put the mixture into small well- 
buttered cups or moulds, bake in a moderate oven 
for twenty minutes, then turn out and garnish with 
sprigs of fresh parsley and serve with or without 
horseradish sauce. 

Boned Leg of Mutton. 
After removing the bone from the mutton 
make some parsley forcemeat with bread-crumbs, a 
little lean bacon, two shalots, and fill up the hole 
where the bone was taken from, cut away any extra 
fat, and sew it up. Bind it and tie up compactly 
and roast with great care. Remove the binding 
and serve with good thick brown gravy. 

Calf's Brains and Black Butter. 

Soak the brains in vinegar and water and put 
in a little piece of thyme. Fry some round pieces 
of bread for about twenty minutes. Place some of 
the brains, after draining them, on each piece of 
fried bread, make a little hole in each piece of brain 
and place a piece of red tongue in each. Pour black 
butter over and serve. The black butter is made by 
taking one ounce of butter and melting it in a frying- 
pan till it turns a rich brown colour, then add half a 
teaspoon fiil of chopped capers, half a tcaspoonful of 
Harvey sauce, and the same quantity of mushroom 
catsup and a little pepper. This can be used 
thickened if preferred. 

Calf's Head Fritters. 

Cut some slices from a calf's head (cold)and mask 
with tomato sauce, dip them into battcrand frya nice 
golden colour. Serve crisped parsley as a garnish. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 13 

Chicken Cutlcti. 

Trim the remnins of a cotd roast or boiled fowl 
into nice cutlets. Cut pieces of bread the same size 
and shape. Fry the bread to a pale brown in 
butter and put in the oven with the door open to 
keep warm. Dtp the cutlets in melted butter 
mixed with the beaten yolk of an egg, roll in 
bread-crumbs, season with salt and pepper, and fry 
for five minutes. Serve each cutlet on a piece of 
fried bread. 

Fried Chicken. 

Cut a chicken into pieces, lay it in salt and 
water, which should be changed several times. 
Roll each piece of chicken in flour and fry in very 
hot butter or clarified dripping. Season with 
pepper and salt and a trifle of cayenne, and serve 
hot. 

Croustades of Chicken. 

Pick the remains of a cold boiled chicken free 
from bones and skin and pound thoroughly with a 
third of its quantity of white sauce, season with salt 
and pepper, and pass through a wire sieve. Work 
this in a stewpau with half a gill of cream over the 
fire with a wooden spoon till it is hot and light ; if 
it should be too soft stir in the yolk of an egg ; 
fill the croustadc case and cover the top with hard 
boiled yolk of egg passed through a wire sieve, on 
which sprinkle a little chopped parsley. Garnish 
round with crisped parsley. Make the croustadc 
case with two ounces of flour, the yolk of an egg anil 
a pinch of salt worked into a smooth paste with cold 
' water, roll out these, and then stamp out as many 



l| TEMPTING DISHES. 

rounds as possible with a good-sized plain cutter, 
gather up the rough pieces and make them into a 
ball. Now roll out one of the rounds of paste 
much thinner and place it in the mould, dip the 
ball of dough into flour and press it in the lined 
mould, trim off rough edges, remove the ball and 
fill with rice that has been mixed with a third part 
suet. Fill as many croustades as required and bake 
them a pale colour. 

Stewed Duck. 

Cut a duck into joints and fry a light brown in 
butter. Put them in a stewpan with half a pint of 
gravy, a couple of large onions, a little salt, parsley, 
two sage leaves, and a sprig of marjoram. Cover 
and stew till tender. Remove the onions and herbs, 
add a little pepper ; skim; mix a little flour into the 
gravy, stir and boil. 

Curried Eggs. 
Fry two sliced onions in butter, then add a 
tablcspoonful of curry powder, and fry this also for 
a minute or two ; then pour the whole into a stew- 
pan with a pint of broth. Let all stew till the 
onion is perfectly tender, then mix a small cup of 
cream (or milk thickened with arrowroot and 
slightly sweetened, or a cup of cocoanut milk), and 
simmer all together for five minutes. Cut six 
hard-boiled eggs into quarters and let them heat 
thoroughly, but do not let them boil ; run the sauce 
through a hair sieve before putting in the eggs. 

Egg Cutlets. 

Boll hard six eggs, and when cold and shelled 
cut them into rather thick slices ; dip each slice 




TEMPTING DISHES. 15 

Into beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and minced parsley ; fry them a light 
brown, and do not let them lie in the fryingpan an 
instant after they are cooked. Drain them free 
from fat and lay them on a very hot dish, arranged 
neatly, and pour some boiling gravy over them. 

Egg Kromesldes. 
Poach three eggs in water a little salted, with 
■ tablcspoonful of vinegar in it ; drain the eggs, 
sprinkle them with a little salt, pepper, and a dust 
of nutmeg. Dtp them in batter and fry in boiling 
lard for one minute only. 

Epigram of Lamb and Peas. 
Place a breast of lamb in a stewpan, with a 
little water, three onions, one carrot, some outer 
sticks of celery, a little pepper, salt, parsley, and 
sweet herbs to taste. When cooked enough to 
allow it, pull out all the bones and put the breast 
between two dishes with a heavy weight on it 
When cold cut it into small cutlets, egg and bread- 
crumb them, fry them a nice colour, and serve 
with some peas in the centre uf the dish, or, if pre- 
ferred, a puree made by boiling a pint of peas in 
salt and water, a slice of onion, a sprig of parsley, 
and a few mint leaves. When cooked pass it 
through a sieve and moisten with some stock, put it 
into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and work it 
Over the fire till quite hut. 

Haricot Mutton. 
Cut up part of a best end of neck of mutton into 
chops, or the whole if required ; trim off most of the 



I ft TEMPTING DISHES. 

fat from the chops and fry them a delicate brown ; 
just flour them slightly before frying, and then 
put them into the saucepan ; fry a large carrot, cut 
in slices a turnip, a parsnip, two onions, add a stick 
or two of celery or some celery seed, and a handful 
of parsley. Season well with salt and pepper and 
a little mushroom catsup or Worcester sauce, and 
place them over the meat; add some boiling stock 
to cover, and let them simmer very gently for a 
couple of hours. Then lake up the meat and 
vegetables, cut the latter up small, and place it ir: 
a deep dish. Thicken the gravy with a little flour 
and butter, pour it over the meat and serve very 
hot 

Kidney Fritters. 

Make a breakfast-cupful of nice frying battel, 
and stir in a tablespoonfu! of finely minced onion, 
a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, and a small pinch of 
cayenne. Take half-a-dozen sheep's kidneys, re- 
move the skin, and cut each one into three or four 
slices; season these with a little salt, dip them 
into the batter— which ought to be thick enough to 
stick to the meat— and fry in boiling fat till suffi- 
ciently cooked and coloured a nice brown ; drain 
well and serve piled up with a little parsley 
powdered over the top and a few sprigs of parsley 
placed round about. 

Stewed Ox -Kidney. 

Cut the kidney into pieces about the size of 
half a sheep's kidney; brown the outside quickly 
in a fryingpan with a very little fat or butter ; 
then place them in some good dark gravy to stew 
very gently. Fry a few small onions in the frying- 




TEMPTING DISHES. :? 

pan, after browning the outside of the kidneys, till 
the onions are nice and brown, and then add these 
to the stewed kidneys ; season with pepper and 
salt These cannot be stewed too gently or slowly ; 
they must on no account boil or they will be 
spoilt 

Stewed Kidneys. 

Skin and parboil kidneys, simmer till tender ; 
slice, and toss them in a saucepan with butter ; 
add pepper and salt and a slight dredging of flour. 
When the flour is well amalgamated with the butter, 
moisten with a little stock ; add wine, a little 
minced parsley, and a few drops of Worcester 
sauce. Let the whole simmer a few minutes and 
serve. 

It takes about an hour and a half to simmer the 
kidneys. 

Kidneys and Tomatoes. 

Throw three kidneys in boiling water ; having 
skinned and split them open, pepper and salt them. 
Slice four tomatoes and put them into a saucepan, 
with a sliced onion, a gill of stock, salt and pepper, 
and stew for fifteen minutes. Put a quarter of a 
pound of butter or dripping in a fryingpan; put in 
the kidney and later the tomatoes, and fry. Pour 
into a buttered pie-dish, cover with bread-crumbs 
and egg over, and place in oven for ten minutes. 

Kromeskies. 

Take some pieces of meat or poultry and mix 

them with good brown sauce that is firm when 

cold ; fold up a small quantity of this in a slice of 

fat bacon, which must be cut as thin as possible 



»8 TEMPTING DISHES. 

and the ends closed, so that the sauce cannot 
escape whilst the kromeskies are fried. After 
wrapping them in the bacon dip them into batter 
and fry to a nice golden colour. Then arrange 
them on a dish in a pyramid and serve with fried 
parsley. 

Lamb Cutlets au Parmesan. 
Take the best end of a neck of lamb, take six 
cutlets and partly fry them, then steep them in a 
sauce made of two tablespoon fu Is of white sauce, in 
which is mixed four spoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and then coat them twice over with egg and 
bread-crumbs, make the surface very smooth and 
even, fry them a golden brown, dish them up in a 
circle and garnish with fried parsley. 

Lamb's Fry. 
Parboil the sweetbreads. Throw them into 
cold water, and when cold trim them. Flour all 
the pieces and fry in the fryingpan in a little 
dripping or in the fat of the fried bacon, which 
should be served with the fry. When nicely 
browned pour a little water into the dripping-pan 
and thicken it with a little flour. Throw in a little 
chopped parsley and season with pepper and salt ; 
it takes about ten minutes to fry. 



Lamb's Head Curry. 

Put a cleansed lamb's head in a stewpan with 
sufficient water to cook it, having previously 
blanched it. Let it stew slowly till the meat falls 
from the bones. When cool cut it into small 




TEMPTING DISHES. 19 

pieces. Fry a small onion in two ounces of butter 
to a light brown, add a tablespoon ful of curry 
powder and half a spoonful of curry paste ; mix all 
together with half a pint of good gravy or stock, put 
in the meat and let it stew gently for half an hour. 
Stew the brains in water five minutes, chop them 
very fine, mixing with them a handful of bread- 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
bind together with an egg, and make them into 
small round balls ; egg and bread-crumb, then fry a 
pale brown ; serve the curry with the balls round 
and boiled rice served separately. 

Lobster Cutlets. 
Take all the meat from the lobster and cut it 
up in little pieces, with a small piece of onion, a 
tcaspoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of 
anchovy sauce, a dust of cayenne and a piece of 
thin lemon-peel the size of the thumbnail ; pound 
all in a mortar till smooth, and mix in sufficient 
lobster butter to make the whole a bright red, 
then add butter till the mixture can be easily 
moulded ; after moulding, flour them, then egg 
and bread-crumb them till of a delicate brown ; 
stick in each a little piece of the tips of the small 
claws to represent a cutlet bone ; serve with fried 
parsley in the centre. Lobster butter is made by 
pounding the spawn with some butter in the mortar. 

Lobster Pancakes. 

Divide a lobster into as nice pieces as possible, 
dip each into good frying butter, adding to it a 
Uttle cayenne pepper and a few drops of essence 
of anchovies. Fry in hot fat as quickly as possible. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



Macaroni Quenelle. 

Take one ounce of macaroni, four ounces of 
bread -crumb*, two eggs, half a pint of milk, a tca- 
spoonful of minced parsley, a pinch of mixed herbs, 
11 dust of cayenne and salt to taste, two ounces of 
melted butter, and two spoonfuls of chopped ham ; 
boil the macaroni till cooked, cut it into small 
pieces, boil the milk and pour on the breadcrumb* 
and soak for five minute*, add the macaroni, herb*, 
C BK S ' melted butter and ham, steam in a well- 
buttered basin for an hour, and serve with brown 
mushroom sauce over it. 

Meat Fritters. 

Take any remains of a chicken or veal, or even 
mutton or lamb, mince very finely ; ncason highly 
with onion, chopped parsley, and a little mixed 
•vvect herbs. Make all this into a liquid state by 
mixing it in a little pale stock and milk, then place 
this mixture into a soup plate and let it get cold 
and set Into a firm jelly. Cut little pieces out 
about an inch and a half in diameter. Hour them 
well, dip them into batter, and then plunge them 
into smnkhig-ltot fat. These are also very good 
made with calf's liver, seasoned with shalot or 
garlic, for those who do not object to the flavour. 

Meat Toast. 

Take any sort of meat that has been served at 
table, cut it into small square pieces, and make a 
well* Thickened ragout of it ; when cold, put in the 
yolk* of two raw eggs, arrange the meat upon some 




TEMPTING DISHES. »i 

crumb of bread, and draw a knife dipped in a beaten 
egg over it. Grate some bread upon the whole, 
fry, and serve with clear sauce. 

Mushroom Cutlets. 
Remove the peel and stalk from a dozen large 
mushrooms, scrape out the gills, wash and chop 
them fine, mix with them sufficient good sauce to 
bind them together, add a little chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper, the yolks of two raw eggs, and 
place on the stove in a saucepan to come to boil- 
ing-point without actually boiling ; turn the mixture 
on to a plate to cool. When wanted, divide this 
into six or eight equal portions with the aid of a 
palette-knife, add a little flour and form them into 
cutlets ; then egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish 
them in a circle with a few peas in the centre and 
white mushroom sauce round. 



Mutton Collops. 
Chop some parsley and one shalot, and get 
small thin slices, about two inches square, from 
the chump end of a loin of mutton. Fry the 
collops alone, till brown on both sides, in a stew- 
pan with one ounce of dissolved butter. The fire 
should be brisk, and the collops turned up and 
down in the butter. When done take them out, 
put in the parsley and shalot, add a little more 
butter, and stew for five minutes. Then add a 
tables'poonful of flour, a tablespoonful of catsup, 
a little stock, and the juice of half a lemon. Put 
in the collops, make them hot but do not boil them ; 
pour the sauce over and serve with potato balls. 



=■! TEMPTING DISHES, 

Mutton-Chops aux Legumes. 

Trim some mutton-chops and set them to stew 
gently over the fire, with a slice of butter, a bunch 
of parsley, and green onions, two or three cloves, 
and a little bit of garlic ; moisten the whole with 
a tumbler of stock and the same quantity of claret, 
adding a carrot and a slice of ham. When done 
skim off the fat and serve the chops with the 
sauce, the ham and the roots. Garlic and wine 
may always be omitted when not liked. 

Mutton-Chops a la Mariniere. 

Take some loin chops, rather short and thick, 
put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter 
about the size of an egg, turning them a few times 
over the fire till they are rather brown, then moisten 
with a large glass of claret and as much stock, 
adding a dozen small white onions. Let the whole 
boil half an hour over a slow fire, then add two 
rashers of streaky bacon, a carrot and a parsnip cut 
into bits, a small bunch of fine herbs, some chopped 
parsley, pepper, salt, and a sprinkling of vinegar. 
When the chops are done, and the sauce nearly 
consumed, dish them for table with the onions 
round and the pieces of bacon, &c. 

Mutton-Chops en Robe de Chambre. 

Put some mutton-chops in a fair quantity of 
stock, adding a bunch of parsley and green onions. 
When the chops are done, take them out, skim 
the fat off the stock, strain, and reduce it to a thick 
gravy, putting in the chops again for the gravy to 



TEMPTING DISHES, sj 

adhere to them, then take them out and leave 
them to cool. Make a forcemeat with a tittle 
piece of fillet of veal, a little bit of beef, two eggs, 
salt, pepper, parsley, and onions cut small and 
moistened with milk ; cover each chop with the 
forcemeat, grate bread over them, and put them 
into the oven to brown. When they are a good 
colour drain off the fat and serve with good clear 
gravy. 

Onions & l'litoile. 
Take a large Spanish onion, core it with the 
column cutter, then cut it down within two inches 
of the bottom in divisions like an orange, so that 
It has somewhat the appearance of a star. Make 
a mince of beef or mutton in the usual way, flavour 
it highly, and fill in the onion with it, tying the 
onion round till it is cooked to prevent the mince 
falling out. Make a hole in the centre of the 
mince and put some carrots and turnips, cut in 
Julienne strips made with a brown sauce, in which 
a little isinglassine has been mixed. When it is 
cooked cut the string and dish up with a mush- 
room puree round it 

Pigeons en Capote. 

Take the number of pigeons required, clean, 
truss, and stuff them with a mixture made of the 
chopped livers, parsley, butter, and a few bread- 
crumbs. Place them in a stewpan with two or 
three slices of bacon, and stew gently for three- 
quarters of an hour. Thicken the gravy, and add 
a couple of tablespoon fuls each of mushroom 
catsup and port-wine (the port-wine may be 
omitted). Use stock to stew them in. 



It, .1 



U TEMPTING DISHES. 

Potato Cutlets. 

Put some cold boiled potatoes into a basin, 
beat tliem to a smooth pulp, and to every pound 
add one ounce of warmed butler, salt, pepper, and 
a tablcspoonful each of minced parsley and finely 
chopped onion, and one well-beaten egg. Mix all 
these together thoroughly, and then allow the 
mixture to get quite cold, then make it up into 
neat cutlet shapes. Brush over with beaten egg 
and coat thickly with grated cheese, and fry in 
the usual way. When just delicately browned, 
drain very carefully and arrange the cutlets in 
two raws down the middle of a hot dish, one 
cutlet slightly overlapping the other. Garnish with 
parsley and serve hot 

Rabbit Batter Pudding:. 

Place at the bottom of a buttered pic-dish two 
rabbits cut into pieces, season and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and ihftlot, cover this with a layer 
of streaky bacon, fill up with batter and bake. 

Minced Rabbit. 

Take the remains of a roasted rabbit, cut off 
nil the meat and mince it with a little roast mutton. 
Ifreak the bones of the rabbit into small piece.! 
and put them into a stewpuri with a slice of butter, 
two shulots, a very small piece of garlic, thyme, 
and a bayleaf; turn all this a few times over the 
lire, then shake in a little flour; moisten with a 
glass of light claret and as much stock, and let it 
boil half an hour over the fire ; strain it off and 




TEMPTING DISHES. 15 

put fn the mincemeat, with salt and pepper ; let 
the whole heat without boiling, and serve hot ; 
garnish with fried sippets. The claret, of course, 
can be left out when not required. 

Rabbit a la Poulette. 

Joint a young rabbit and put it into a stew- 
pan with sufficient stock to cover it Season with 
a little parsley, some sweet herbs, two small onions, 
and if possible a few mushrooms. Let it boil up 
in a few minutes, then draw it aside and let it 
simmer very gently for an hour ; remove the meat, 
strain the liquor and beat it briskly up, and add it 
to the rabbit ; garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. 

Rabbit a la Tartare. 

Have a rabbit boned, cut it in pieces, put it to 
steep for an hour with an onion, some parsley, a 
few mushrooms and chives, all chopped finely ; add 
pepper and salt to taste and a few drops of oil, 
then dip each piece of rabbit in egg and bread- 
crumbs and broil. 

Ragouts for an Entre'e. 

Take some small dariole tins and line them 
thinly with batter made with a quarter pound of 
Vienna flour, two eggs, and rather more than a table- 
spoonful of salad oil ; mix into a paste with a good 
half tumbler of cold water and see that the batter is 
smooth and not lumpy. Fry these in a saucepan 
with plenty of fat in it, and not too hot when the 
moulds are first put in. They must be done one at a 
time, and as soon as the cup is put into the grease it 



36 TEMPTING DISHES. 

should be twisted round and round with a knife. 
When cooked the batter mould will easily slip out. 
Brush the outside of the cases with the white of 
an egg and sprinkle over a little finely chopped 
parsley or coralline pepper. Fill the moulds with 
any kind of white meat cut up in dice shapes and 
mixed with white sauce ; a few button mushrooms 
cut up and mixed in is an improvement. 

Risotto. 

Parboil some well-washed rice in boiling water 
for five minutes, draining and drying it on a cloth, 
then fry it a light brown with a little chopped onion 
and butter, and stew it till tender in enough 
well-seasoned soup to cover it well. It must be 
watched very closely, and the saucepan must be 
shaken to prevent burning. When done put it into 
a buttered mould with .shreds of cold chicken, 
tongue or ham well shaken down, dust it with 
grated cheese, and brown it in the oven ; or slices of 
mushrooms or a little tomato sauce are used as 
variations from the tongue or chicken. 



Roulades of Mutton, 

Remove the fillet from a loin of mutton, trim 
away all skin and fat. Flatten the fillet with the 
cutlet-bat and cut it lengthways into slices as 
thin as possible ; divide these into neat pieces three 
inches long. Sprinkle each with pepper and salt 
and finely chopped parsley ; roll them up tightly, 
dip into beaten egg and then into bread-crumbs 
mixed with an equal quantity of flour and highly 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Place each roulade 



Il 



TEMPTING DISHES. 17 

on a skewer (three or four on each skewer) and 
cook them in one ounce of butter in a fryingpan. 

Rumpsteak a la Bonne- Bouche. 

Rub a thick steak with salt, pepper and mustard, 
flour. Put some butter into a fryingpan, and 
when it is boiling put the steak in and cook 
with a few sticks of celery cut small and about 
eight mushrooms ; a good thick slice of onion 
and one little tiny piece of garlic should be put 
into the pan merely to lend its flavour. Fry all 
very quickly ; after taking it up remove the grease 
and add one tablespoonful of well-smoothed flour, 
two of Harvey sauce, one teaspoonful of bovril 
melted inateacupful of boiling water ; stir well the 
whole time and let it have a good boil up ; serve 
the same separately. 

Sausage Pudding. 

Make a suet crust and line a greased pudding- 
basin with it and All the basin with sausages and a 
very little water, put on the cover, press the sides 
close, wet and flour the pudding-cloth and cover 
the pudding, Sec, and boil one hour and a half. 

Savoury Moulds. 

Mince half a pound of underdone beef or mutton 
as finely as possible and put it into a basin with half 
its weight in bread-crumbs, one ounce of butter 
broken into small pieces, a tablespoonful of finely 
minced onion, a teaspoonful of mixed powdered 
herbs and a good seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Mix these ingredients thoroughly, moisten with 



■I 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



beaten egg and fill in some small, well-buttered 
moulds ; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, 
and turn out carefully ; insert a small sprig of pars- 
ley in the top of each and pour a little brown gravy 
round. 



Sheep's Brains Roasted. 

Prepare the brains by soaking in cold water 
with a little salt for half an hour, remove the caul 
or skin which envelops them very gently, leave 
them in fresh water a little longer ; they should be 
simmered in about a pint of water, seasoned with a 
tablcspoonful of vinegar, a clove of garlic, bayleaf, 
thyme and half a tcaspoonful of sugar, pepper and 
salt. When the brains are done drain and dry 
them, cut each one in half lengthways, brush over 
with yolk of egg and roll them in fine bread-crumbs 
seasoned with minced parsley, then sprinkle them 
with clarified butter and bread-crumbs again. Put 
each piece of brain on a small slice of bacon, place 
them in a baking-dish and set them in a well- 
heated oven for about half an hour, basting oc- 
casionally. When nicely browned lay the slices of 
bacon on toast, put the brains on the top of the 
bacon and serve with tomato sauce in a tureen. 

This is a very tasty and economical dish, as 
brains are very cheap. 



Sheep's Head au Gratia. 

Remove the brains and put the head in water, 
having blanched it previously ; bring it slowly to 
I he boil, throw away the water, and again cover the 
head with fresh water ; then add a faggot of herbs, 



TEMPTING DISHES. *j 

an onion, carrot, celery, one or two each of cloves, all- 
spice, and peppercorns, and any trimmings of bacon, 
and let it simmer very gently for two hours, when 
it should be done enough for the bones to slip out 
easily, take it up, remove the bones, and skin the 
tongue. Place the head on a greased baking-tin 
with the tongue upright in the centre ; sprinkle 
with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a very 
little scraped onion and shalot ; cover thickly with 
bread-crumbs, putting pieces of butter here and 
there, pour very little of the broth round, and bake 
till the crumbs arc quite brown. Meanwhile, wash 
and skin the brains, boil them quickly in a little 
broth, drain and cut each piece in two, flour them, 
egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Make a sauce 
by slicing an onion into a stewpan with a piece of 
butter ; fry till brown ; mix in a spoonful of flour, 
add a cupful of the broth and one of brown gravy ; 
stir till it boils, add a tables poonful of sharp sauce, 
strain, and mix in a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, pour round the head and garnish with 
fried brains. 

Tomato Curry. 
Bake some large tomatoes and pass them 
nigh a sieve ; add a tablespoonful of finely 
iced onions, a pinch of garlic, and some good 
y powder ; add enough stock or water to moisten 
whole. As the water or stock reduces, add 
we til! the whole is well cooked, when remove 
d serve very hot. It is not necessary to serve 
e with it 

Tongue Pie. 
Take equal parts of cold tongue and cold poultry. 
oe an earthenware baking-dish with good pic- 



» j. 






3 o TEMPTING DISHES. 

crust, put the two meats into it in layers, seasoning 
each layer lightly with salt and pepper ; when the 
dish is full add sufficient cold gravy of any kind to 
moisten the meat ; put an upper crust on it ; cut a 
few slits in the upper crust to allow the steam to 
escape, and brush it over with melted butter. Bake 
in a moderate oven for an hour and serve either 
hot or cold. 

Milanese Timbale. 
Cook some macaroni in good beef gravy, drain 
it in a colander, place it in a warmed dish, and mix 
with some grated Gruyere cheese. Prepare a 
sauce with a few tomatoes, in which mix two or 
three mushrooms, forcemeat balls, and shelled 
shrimps. Make a light dough, line the bottom 
and sides of a round mould after greasing it with 
fresh butter, then put in a layer of macaroni, a 
layer of the prepared sauce, and so on till the 
mould is full. Pour a little beef gravy on thewhole, 
and place the mould long enough in the oven to 
bake the paste ; turn it out of the mould and 
serve either with tomato or brown sauce round it. 

Tripe a la Francaise. 
Take a pound of fresh tripe, cut it into pieces 
about two inches square, put them into a stewpan 
with enough good veal broth or light stock to cover 
them, and let them simmer gently from four to 
four and a half hours, or until the tripe is perfectly 
tender. Put into another stewpan two or three 
button mushrooms chopped, a little chopped parsley, 
a small onion minced, part of a bayleaf, a little 
pepper and salt, and a gill of white sauce. Stir 
these over a gentle fire titl the mushrooms become 




TEMPTING DISHES. \i 

tender, and then add half a pint of veal broth or 
an/ pale broth. Let the same boil until it la 
perfectly smooth, then pour it over the tripe and 
serve. 

Prltot de Cervelle de Veau. 
Blanch the brains, and when cold they must be 
cut in slices as neatly as possible, seasoned with a 
little eschalot and parsley finely chopped and a 
little salad oil ; then dip into batter and fry till a 
nice golden colour. 

Veal Mould. 

Slice evenly any cold roast veal, put a layer of 
this at the bottom of n pic-dish j season with pepper 
and a little finely shrcded lemon-rind. Next put on 
a layer of sliced cold boiled bacon or ham. Boil 
four eggs hard, and when cold slice and fill the dish 
with alternate layers of veal, ham, and c;;gs. Steep 
half an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water, and 
then add three-quarters of a pint of good stock 
flavoured with beef extract and lemon-juice. Hoi] 
till quite dissolved, and pour over the meat hot, but 
not boiling. Turn out when eold.--C««iwr. 

Vinaigrette of Fish. 
Take any cold fish ; heap the pieces without any 
bones or skin with them in a mound in the centre 
of a platter, Chop two boiled eggs, the yolks and 
whites separately, and arrange first a border of 
chopped yolks, then a border of chopped whites 
around the fish, finally add n wreath of capers 
about an inch from the eggs and serve the fish 
with a vinaigrette sauce, made by mixing a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one of salt, and half a one 



3» 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



of mustard to a paste and gradually adding vinegar 
enough to make half a cupful. When mixed add 
two tablespoon fu Is of olive oil and beat the whole 
very thoroughly. This same may be used with 
cold meat also. 

Yorkshire Pudding, 
Take three ounces of flour, two eggs, a little 
over a gill of milk, two ounces of beef dripping, 
quarter of an ounce of Cowan's baking-powder; 
mix the flour, eggs, milk, and baking-powder to- 
gether ; add a pinch of salt ; put the dripping into 
a baking-tin, and place it in the oven to get hot ; 
then pour in the batter and cook cither in front of 
the fire under meat which is being roasted, or else 
hi a quick oven. In the oven it takes from fifteen 
to twenty minutes to cook, but much longer if put 
under the meat 




TEMPTING DISHES. 3J 

Apple Compote. 
Cut up and boil six apples in one pint of water 
till soft ; drain, and add to the juice a cup of sugar 
and a little lemon-rind ; boil one minute, add six 
more apples, cored and pared, and cook till tender. 
Then remove and fill the cores with orange marma- 
lade. Boil the syrup to a jelly and pour over. 

Apples & l'Enfance. 

Peel some apples and cut them into quarters, 
remove the cores and cook them in syrup till 
tender. When cooked mix them with stiffly 
whipped cream and place them in a pile on the 
dish, garnish the cream with some of the quarters 
of the apples, and ornament with crystallised 
cherries ; if possible, stand the dish on ice. 

Apple Fritters. 

Peel some apples; cut them into rather thin 
slices and cut the core out of each slice, forming a 
ring. Take a little castor sugar, squeeze a drop or 
two of lemon-juice on each apple slice, and then 
press them on to the sugar on each side; dip into 
some batter and fry in hot fat When they become 
a nice delicate brown take them out and dry them. 
Shake some white castor sugar over them and pile 
them high on a dish. 

It is a good plan to put a finger through the 
hole in the ring whilst throwing them into the fat 
in order to keep the ring shape. Batter should be 
a mixture of flour and milk made about as thick 
as double cream, and it should be very smooth ; 
and the fat should be very hot into which it is 
thrown. To make an extra good batter, add 



34 TEMPTING DISHES. 

half a pint of water to sufficient flour to make H 
the required thickness and then work in the yolk 
of an egg, and just before using the batter the 
white of the egg stiffly whisked should be added. 

Apple Fritters. 

Peel some apples, cut them in rings and stamp 
out the cores ; sprinkle a little very finely grated 
lemon-rind over them, also a little castor sugar and 
a little rum, and let them remain with this on them 
for an hour, and then dip into the prepared batter 
before frying them. 

Albert Sandwiches. 
Take three eggs ; a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut ; a little grated cheese ; a little salt ; and a 
dust of cayenne pepper. Put all into a saucepan 
and stir over the fire till it thickens ; cut some round 
pieces of bread, fry them in butter and spread the 
paste over them, and sprinkle a little grated tongue 
or ham over them before serving. 

Banana Fritters. 
Peel and cut each banana in half lengthwise ; 
sprinkle a little finely chopped lemon-peel over 
them, and a little rum (the Liquid Sunshine rum is 
ike best). Then dip the bananas in batter ; fry 
them, and dust them with powdered sugar. 

Batter Puddings. 

Take six ounces of flour ; add a saltspoonful of 

salt and sugar to taste ; moisten with a pint of 

milk , mix till smooth and free from lumps ; then 

beat up separately two eggs ; strain the eggs and 



TEMPTING DISHES, 35 

the milk and mix it quickly ; while this is doing 
put one tablespoonful of beef dripping into a tin, 
and when it is very hot pour in the batter, and 
bake for an hour and a half. The batter before the 
eggs are added should be of the consistence of 
thick cream. Put the tin in the hottest part of the 
oven for an hour, then remove it to a cooler part 
to cook thoroughly through in another half-hour. 
Serve with meat or gravy. 

Carrot Pudding. 

Grate two cupfuls of carrots ; add to this one 
and a half cupfuls of finely chopped suet; four of 
moist sugar ; eight of flour ; half a pound of 
chopped raisins ; the same of currants ; one salt- 
spoonful of salt; and steam four hours. Set in an 
oven twenty minutes before serving. 

Chocolate Blancmange. 

Take a tin of condensed milk, and add some 
fresh milk to it ; stir it over the fire, and stir into 
it about six sheets of white leaf gelatine which has 
been soaked in a cup of cold water ; add three 
tcaspoonfuls of grated chocolate, boil ten minutes, 
stirring all the time ; when nearly cold beat for 
five minutes or until it begins to stiffen. Flavour 
and whip up at once, and put into a wet mould, and 
it will be firm in six or seven hours. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Take three tablespoonfuls of sugar, four of 
cornflour. Dissolve two and a half tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate in hot water, scald a quart of 
milk by putting it into a boiler over boiling water. 



yb TEMPTING DISHES. 

Dissolve the cornflour in a little scalded milk, and 
before it thickens, stir in the dissolved chocolate ; 
keep all in the boiler, stirring constantly till cooked. 
Use with cream or custard. 

Coffee Custards. 

Make a quarter of a pint of very strong clear 
coffee and, when cold, stir it into half a pint of 
sweetened milk; beat up two fresh eggs (leaving 
out the whites), mix them with the coffee and 
milk ; put into a jug and stir over the fire as above. 
When cool, pour into custard glasses. 

Crumb Pudding. 
One quart of milk, the same of bread-crumbs, 
three-quarters of a cup of sugar, the yolk of two 
eggs, a tablcspoonful of butter ! flavour with 
nutmeg and lemon ; then bake in a slow oven, and 
when done spread over a layer of red-currant jelly. 
Whip the whites of the eggs to a froth ; add two 
tablcspoonfuls of castor sugar ; pour over the jelly 
and bake a light brown. 

The Empress Rice. 
riz A l'imperatrice, 
Boil three tablcspoonfuls of washed rice in 
a pint of milk, with sugar to taste, and a few drops 
of essence of vanilla. Make a custard with a gil! 
of milk and three eggs, and when cold add it to 
the rice. Ueat to a froth a gill of cream with 
some suijar and a pinch oi hinglassint, dissolved 
in a little water. Mix this in with the rice and 
custard ; fill a mould, and set on ice ; then turn it 
out and serve. Preserved fruit, or preserve, may 
be served with it. 




TEMPTING DISHES 37 

French Cannelons. 

Make some puff paste, roll thin, and cut into 
equal-siiod strips. Place a spoonful of jam in the 
centre of each, cover with another strip of pastry, 
give a slight twist in the centre of each, and fry in 
boiling lard for about ten minutes ; then drain 
thoroughly upon a hot napkin and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. 

Fig Mould. 

Take half-a pound of figs, the yellow peel of 
a lemon, chopped fine, one and a half ounces of 
white sugar, and a large tcacupful of water ; put 
all in a jar with a cover or lid on, and place it in 
a saucepan with as much boiling water as will 
reach half-way up the jar, and let all stew gently 
till all the liquid is dried up and the figs arc quite 
soft; press the figs into a mould and let it stand 
till cold, then turn out, and pour a custard round it. 

Fig Pudding. 
Chop a pound of figs and six ounces of beef 
suet Put a tcaspoonful of baking powder and 
a pinch of salt into half-a-pound of (lour. l*ut 
this mixture into a basin with a quarter of a pound 
of bread-crumbs and two tablespoon fu Is of brown 
sugar. Beat up two eggs till light, and moisten 
with a little milk these ingredients to a stiff 
paste, and put it into a buttered mould with a cloth 
over, and boil it in boiling water for two hours. 

Floating Island. 
Cut a round sponge cake in slices, spread them 
with jam, place them on each othcr.and spread the 



38 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



top with jam. Put the cake in a glass dish, and pour 
over it about a pint of boiled custard. Whip the 
whites of the two eggs used for the custard stiffly 
with a tablcspoonful of white powdered sugar and 
heap on the top. Sprinkle over with chopped 
pistachio kernels and ' hundreds and thousands,' 

General Satisfaction. 

Cover the bottom of a tart dish with some 
finger sponge cakes, one gill of milk, and some 
jam, and put it in a moderate oven till hot Grate 
the peel of a lemon and mix it with some sugar. 
Beat the yolk of one egg and the whites of three, 
beating in the sugar. Then pour on the cakes. 
Bake for fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 



Gingerbread Pudding. 

Work two ounces of butter with two table- 
spoonfuls of brown sugar, beat an egg well and 
add to it ; then mix in one tcacupful of milk, one 
teaspoonful of ground ginger, eight ounces of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, and two of 
golden syrup, and steam for four hours. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Take a quart of gooseberries and put them in 
a jar with two tablespoon fu Is of water, and a very 
little powdered white sugar ; set the jar in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water and let it boi! till the fruit 
is soft enough to mash ; beat it to a pulp, and pass 
the pulp through a sieve, and stir into it two or 
three spoonfuls of condensed milk. Serve in a 
glass dish. 




TEMPTING DISHES. » 

Hasty Pudding. 
Put some milk in a saucepan to boil, and when 
ft quite boils dredge in some flour and keep stirring 
all the time (as it might burn), till the whole 
becomes very thick. Turn it out and stir for 
another minute after taking it from the fire, add 
a little butter and sweeten with sugar. Jam should 
be served round this pudding. 

Junket. 

Take a pint of fresh milk, a spoonful of white 
sugar, and one of rennet (bottles of rennet can be 
procured at most grocers), and a little brandy. 
Make the milk blood-warm, put it in a deep dish 
with the other ingredients, stir well together, and 
the milk* will curdle and set Then spread some 
clotted cream over the top, grate some nutmeg, 
and serve. 

Lemon Cheesecakes. 

Take one lemon and three ounces of sugar, 
rub the sugar on the rind, then put the sugar in a 
basin, in not quite half a pint of water, squeeze in 
the juice and place all in a saucepan to dissolve 
the sugar ; thicken with a little arrowroot or corn- 
flour, till it becomes a jelly, stirring all the time 
till quite smooth (put in the thickening a little at 
a time and stir it quickly). Four it then on to a 
plate to get cold, and then, with two forks, break 
it into little pieces and fill the tartlet cases. 

Lemon Pudding. 
Peel the rinds of two lemons as thin as possible. 
Take as little of the white substance off with the 



40 THMI'fJXH lit SI I &*, 

flll'l it* |i'.o«ll<k Slew lllt'«W limit III Imll A J'flit 
..I 'milk till 111*/ w*i tuft WMfU|jll )<» lin.nl) lliiniljjl 
a ymv>">lriilii' , r. Wlil|i up luilf n jilut "C KJWtlU i 
llini, willi'fitt mmtviw tlm <w«in, mid iw» nyjf« 
una |»y mid, Next, ikI'MIih Jul' c irf lli'i two l«ili"ii* 
■ImliH-il, with « l)"n|»f'l ljilil<"ajiiiuiif)il «f [iijwrfsrwl 
tugar, llin milk in tvliMi lli» Imikhi HiiiIn w#*wt 
Uil-.l, hii<( llm li-mou.ni.lj-. I,l„<- » | ( | t . illili Willi 

I Hill' jmol", jimir in tfii iiilnlure, uuvrr with -> 
mtUtwJ jwjn.tr am) Iwbn, Itmwn ilw jitt«l« a HtUo. 

Lrmoii Tart, 

Uim h iIbuji ()I«-(llali wllli ttnUy utmlti mid tlitit 
fill in wllli tt i»it'jjamtlfiii Hindu i>{ tlw hiluti uf Mtia 
IWlUril tun I tlii! yrllnw ilml (intli-il, two tlilnln of A 
tim ill wlilin augur, win wHJ le-ni'-n i*yu, find <jh» 
litltlfeiMHiiiliil ill UJFIlfliriJr i Mir ..II Illiti hiilf it jilnt 
«il "billing wiiIi-i.oii.I lii.il li-nnlliii-" In Hv«uillimtei»i 
ptiur on t» ill' citint Mill vi In tin; iivwi fur a few 
liilliul'-a, 

Lcmun Whlji, 

Kitljtw'Miii't u luilf niiii'iaNf oiia.ir<ni « Umum, 

I limit til" tHIJ/OI', |ll|l II llll'f H a|i WJ».MI, till'! B-JUrn/u 

Hio ktium Jol<" tliMxi^fi a »ii»lii"> mi im ||, IWL 
ll|i tlir ynllia i.f Hlffl ''Kga, »'M lli-rji f'» til* augur 
mi'l Imhuw IuImv «Ml tiff WW tltHflnt till lft«<M> 
tiild t ■■■(,,,■, |,nl .!<, ||"l I- i II loll I 'iilllimw 
0'llllllly ii |i'W lllilMlira nll'T I'riiiuviilg III (I II Uw 

flic, l|i.-u I'-iivt fl In tlw WtlH rjwH Id y I iimily 
ii'lil, Wliiili nji lliw wlilt"* In u wj/slilf li'illt, 
Mir tlii'iii liylilly Ijil'illKiniolaul, llimi Jn-ti|) It IIJi 
III ft glua* illali. 'Mila Mwilld mily Iw Iii.hIu Iwy 
llniiia \mUffl! Il it wuiil' il, 



FiU^v 




TEMPTING V/Sf/ES. 41 

Norfolk Dumpltngi. 

Purchase a few muffins from the baker, boil 
them for twenty minutes In water, and serve with 
sweet sauce. 

Orange Fool. 

Take six oranges, and extract the juice, and 
mix it with one and a half pints of milk (or one 
pint of cream), two eggs beaten till light, sugar to 
taste, and about a tcaspoonful of cornflour mixed 
till smooth. Stir this all over a slow fire till as 
thick as good custard. Another way is to mix 
the juice of six or eight oranges, and the strained 
fruit, with two tablespoon fu Is of condensed milk, 
and serve cold. 

Orange Meringue Pudding. 

Pour half a pint of milk over a couple of ounces 
of bread-crumbs, and let them soak till cold. Beat 
Up the yolks of two eggs till light ; add two ounces 
of pounded sugar, and the grated rind of four 
oranges. Cut away all the white pith and press 
the pulp of the oranges through a wire sieve. Add 
the orange-pulp and bread to the sugar, break it 
up in pieces, and stir in half an ounce or fresh 
butter. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
snow, mix lightly half the whites into the mix- 
ture, pour into a buttered pudding-dish, pile the 
remainder roughly on the top, dredge on some 
finely powdered sugar, and bake the pudding In a 
Blow oven for three-quarters of an hour, when it 
should be of a pale golden colour. When the 
pudding is half baked, lay a sheet of paper on the 
lop to prevent scorching. 




TEMPTING DISHES. 



Orange Pudding. 

Take the rind of three oranges and the juice of 
six, a cup of powdered sugar, and four eggs, one 
large tablespoonful of cornflour, and a pint of 
milk. Mix the cornflour with the milk. Stir it 
in a milk saucepan, add the thin rind of the 
oranges. When the milk begins to thicken, add 
the yolks of the eggs very carefully one at a time, 
then add a little salt and the juice of the oranges. 
Cook the pudding in a moderate oven till firm in 
the centre— it takes about forty minutes — remove 
the rind before the pudding is put into the oven. 
Whip the whites of the eggs up with a little orange- 
juice and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
cover the pudding, and let it cook in a moderate 
oven, with the door open a little. Serve the 
pudding cold. 

Pear Croquettes. 

Peel, core, and chop fine or grate six large ripe 
pears. Mix two ounces of fresh butter, melted, 
with them, and sugar to taste ; beat up three eggs 
until light, add to the fruit, and mix in as large a 
quantity of fine bread-crumbs as will make the 
mixture stiff. From this mixture mould the cro- 
quettes into egg-shaped form with two tablespoons, 
drop these into boiling water, and let them merely 
simmer till they are done— about twenty minutes 
— drain them, roll each in pounded sugar, lay them 
on a hot napkin, and place a very little ground cin- 
namon on the top of each croquette. Serve up very 
hot with or without sweet sauce. 




TEMPTING DISHES. 



Pear Marmalade. 



Take a dozen pears, throw them into boiling 
water and boil for twenty minutes or till soft enough 
to press through a sieve. Drain, remove the skins 
by gently rubbing the pears with a damp towel, 
press the pulp through the sieve. Weigh and add 
to its bulk in powdered loaf sugar made hot in the 
oven. Stir till it boils ; draw the pan to one side and 
keep the marmalade at the simmering point about 
twenty minutes or so, taking care not to let it boil. 
When the marmalade gets stiff pot it and cover 
when cold- 
Pears, to Stew. 

Take twelve good-sized hard pears, peel and 
cut them in halves, leaving the stalk on one half. 
Remove the cores and then place them in a jar with 
half a pound of loaf sugar, six cloves and half a 
pint of water. Cover with a lid and stew in a slow 
oven from six to eight hours. When they arc done 
lift each piece of pear on to a dish, strain the liquor 
into a saucepan and boil it quickly for ten minutes. 
If the colour is not good two or three drops of 
cochineal may be added. Let it cool and then 
pour over the pears ; a little lemon-peel cut in thin, 
long, narrow strips may be stewed in with the pears, 
and it is a great improvement 

Juice of Pears. 

Take some ripe and sound pears, wipe them 
with a damp cloth, cut them into thin slices and 
put them into a preserving-pan with one pint of 
water to every three pounds of fruit, and boil gently 
urtil they are soft enough to be rubbed through a 



44 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



hair sieve. Weigh the juice and allow equal weight 
of powdered sugar, and mix thoroughly. Pour into 
clean bottles, cork tightly and tie down with string. 
Place the bottles in a pan of cold water with twists 
of hay around them to prevent them from breaking ; 
let the water boil for five minutes and then cool agai a 
before the bottles are removed. Store in a dry 
place. 

Pippin Tart3. 
Pare two oranges very thinly, boil the peel till 
tender, shred it fine, and core six apples and put 
them in a jar with a gill of water; when half- 
cooked add half a pound of sugar and boil till 
pretty thick. When cold, place in a shallow dish 
lined with paste, turn out, and cat cold. 

Raspberry Trifle. 

Put a layer of sponge cake at the bottom of a 
glass dish, cover with raspberries and sprinkle 
white powdered sugar over them and repeat layers 
till the dish is full. Make a custard with two eggs, 
add a tablcspoonful of castor sugar and stir in 
gradually a pint of milk. Let it thicken slightly, 
and then flavour with vanilla or lemon, and when 
cold pour it over the cake, etc. Whip the whites 
of two eggs to a stiff froth with a teaspoonful ot 
•ugar, pour over all and serve as quickly as pos- 
sible. 

Ratafia Pudding 

Soak the crumb of a French roll and three 
sponge cakes and half a pound of ratafias in milk 
till quite soft, then beat them up, add three ounces 
of warmed butter, the yolks of four and the whites 
of two eggs, and a few almonds blanched and 



TEUPr/XS D/SfiES* 4 * 

pounded. Butter a mould, lay a few dried cherries 
in it, pour in the pudding, cover the mould and 
steam it in a saucepan of boiling water for an hour 
and a half. 

Rhubarb Cream. 

Boil a bundle of rhubarb with a little water, 
some sugar, and the rind of half a lemon thinly 
peeled ; when quite soft, pass it through a sieve, and 
to the pulp add two wcll-bcntcn eggs ; stir over 
the fire again till it just boits ; or when pulped 
add half a pint of cream, stir well together and put 
into a glass dish. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Boil the rice until quite soft and tender ; whilst 
warm add an egg well beaten, a tnblcspoonfut of 
butter and salt to taste, and half a tcacupful of any 
kind of cold meat, ham, or tongue, chopped fine, 
When cold, make into croquettes, cover with beaten 
egg and bread-crumb*, and fry in hot dripping till 
browned. 

Rice Fritter!. 

Boil two ounces of rice in a little milk and water 
till quite soft, let it cool, then mix it up with one 
ounce of sugar, a few currants, a tablcspoonful of 
flour, two wcll-bcatcti eggs, a few drops of essence 
of almonds, and as much milk as will make It of 
a proper consistency. Drop the mixture from a 
tablespoon into boiling butter, and fry a light 
brown on both sides ; drain well and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve very hot. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



Rolled Jelly Cake, 

Take two eggs, beat the yolks till creamy, 
adding gradually a good heapcd-up tablespoonful 
of castor sugar ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, add 
them to the yolk and sugar ; add half a teaspoon ful 
of baking-powder to half a cup of lightly sifted 
flour ; put this very carefully and slowly with the 
butter, add one tablespoonful of warm water. 

Line a long-shaped baking-pan with greased 
paper, pour in the mixture to the depth of a quarter 
of an inch. Bake from eight to ten minutes in a 
moderate oven. It must be thoroughly cooked, 
but lightly baked. As soon as it is done, turn it 
quickly from the pan, remove the paper, turn the 
cake, and spread it with jelly. With a knife 
quickly crush the crust round the edge and roll up 
the cake. 

Preserved Tomatoes. 

Take five pounds of yellow egg tomatoes five 
pounds of white sugar, the juice of two lemons 
(three, if small). Cover the fruit with the sugar, 
and let it stand overnight. In the morning drain 
the syrup from the fruit, boil, skim, put in the 
tomatoes, and boil slowly for twenty minutes ; 
skim the fruit, then put out into plates; boil the 
juice til! thick ; add the lemon-juice, and put the 
tomatoes carefully into bottles, and cover with the 
hot syrup. Seal up at once. 

Scotch Fritters. 

Take any remains of cold game, and mince 
very finely, removing all skin and gristle. If there 



TEMPTING DISHES. 47 

should be half a pound, mix In with It about six 
or eight finely chopped mushrooms, a little season- 
ing of salt and pepper, a dust of cayenne, and stir 
It Into about half a pint of good batter. Drop the 
mixture a tablespoon ful at a time into a saucepan 
with plenty of boiling fat in it, and as soon as the 
fritters become a good golden colour, remove and 
drain them, and keep hot till all are cooked. Then 
pile them up high on a hot dish with sprigs of 
crisp,' fried parsley, and serve. 

Simple Sweet Omelet. 

Beat together the yolk of an egg, one teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, one and a half tcaspoonfu] of orange- 
juice, and three gratings of the nrangc-pcel ; then 
pour this over the lightly whisked while of egg, put 
in a hot pan over a quick fire, cook for about three 
minutes, and then put it Into the oven for half a 
minute, fold and sprinkle with sugar. 

Stanley Pudding. 

Take half a pint of milk and mix a little of It 
with a tablcsponnful of flour. Heat the rest of the 
milk, and pour it on the flour, stirring well. Beat 
a couple of eggs, and with an ounce of butter add 
to the flour, stitiing and beating well. Pour all 
into a buttered pic-dish, and bake for half an hour. 
Spread on the top a layer of raspberry jam, and 
the white of tin egg whipped and sweetened. 

Yeast Dumplings. 

Get half a quartern of dough from the baker's; 
roll it into dumplings; throw into boiling water 



it TEMPTING DISHES, 

and boil for about twenty minutes. Serve either 
with sweet sauce or good gravy. 

Anchovy Cream Toasts. 

Fry some thin sippets of bread, cither round or 
diamond shape. Spread these with a little anchovy 
paste. Make a thick mayonnaise sauce to which 
has been added chopped chervil, shalot or chives, 
and capers. Spread the sauce between the anchovy 
sippets like sandwiches, and serve with watercress 
or mustard and cress. 

Baked Eggs. 

Butter a dish, cover the bottom with fine bread- 
crumbs ; then break as many eggs as may be 
required over them, be careful not to break the 
yolks ; then sprinkle another layer of crumbs over 
them ; season with pepper and salt ; place on a few 
little pieces of butter, and bake five minutes in a 
quick oven. 

Baked Eggs. 

Put some good gravy into a shallow baking- 
dish. Break four eggs or as many as arc required 
into this, salt them, and strew some bread-crumbs 
over them, and bake for five minutes in a quick 
oven. Take up the eggs carefully one by one and 
lay upon little rounds of fried bread. Add to the 
gravy a little cream and some very finely chopped 
parsley and onion ; put into a saucepan and boil up 
quickly and pour over the eggs. 

Baked Eggs. 
Fill the dish with the beaten whites. Make a 
hollow in the centre and put in the unbeaten yolks ; 



TEMPTING DISHES. 49 

sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the top, and 
lay a small piece of butter on the yolk. Bake for 
two minutes. 

Bloater Puree. 

Simmer six bloaters, remove the skins and 
take off the flesh from the bones, and pass it through 
a sieve and put it into a stewpan. Add sufficient 
butter to make it into a perfectly smooth paste. 
Draw the pan a little on one side, and stir in 
two tablespoon fuls of cream, a little finely chopped 
parsley and a seasoning of Nepaul pepper. Stir till 
the preparation is quite hot, then turn it out, sprinkle 
brown raspings and sifted egg-yolk over the top, 
and garnish with a border of toasted sippets. 

Bloaters' Brains on Toast 

Take the soft roe of the bloater, slice it neatly, 
with a tiny dust of Nepaul or coralline pepper, and 
then roll each slice very delicately in a very thin 
slice of bacon. Roll them on a neatly cut piece of 
toast, and put them into the oven and quickly 
cook and serve very hot — Pouard. 

Bloater Roes. 

Take some bloater roes, either hard or soft, 
boil them ; then pound them in a mortar and roll 
them up with a little butter, and a dust of salt and 
cayenne pepper, and then spread on very hot 
buttered toast 

Stuffed Bloaters. 

Remove the roes from some bloaters, and pound 
them in the mortar, take away all bones from the 



50 TEMPTING DISHES, 

fish, add to the roes a couple of tablespoonfuls of 
bread-crumbs, some minced parsley, and a teaspoon- 
ful of sweet herbs chopped fine, a little finely grated 
lemon-peeL Stuff the bloaters with this and fasten 
with a skewer, and bake, and serve very hot 

Breakfast Dish. 

Take three tomatoes, slice them and put them 
in a stewpan with a little butter, a little finely 
chopped ham, pepper and salt, and let them cook 
for a few minutes ; then add two raw eggs and 
stir all together for a few minutes till the eggs set, 
then serve on buttered toast with a little finely 
chopped parsley sprinkled over the top. 

Cabbage a la Creme. 

Boil cabbage till tender. Drain it When it is 
perfectly cold drain it a second time, then chop 
up, and mix with it a tablespoonfut of butter, a 
well-beaten egg, pepper, salt, and half a teacupful 
of milk or cream. Stir all well. Then bake brown 
in a pudding dish. Serve hot in the dish in which it 
is baked. The dish should be buttered or greased. 

Cabbage and Tomato. 

Boil and chop finely some young cabbage, as 
little water as possible should be used ; when quite 
tender add half the quantity of hot stewed tomatoes. 
Boil together for a fezv minutes. Season with 
a little salt and pepper, and pour a little white 
sauce over. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



Fried Celery. 

Cut the white pieces of the celery into lengths 
of four inches, and sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
dip them into beaten egg, then bread-crumb them, 
and fry quickly in very hot fat ; drain, and then 
serve. 

Celery a la Parmesan. 

Stew some celery in milk till tender ; then make 
a white sauce, into which grated Parmesan should 
be mixed, and then place the celery on the dish it 
is to be served in. Pour the white sauce over, then 
a layer of grated Parmesan, then a thin layer of 
bread-crumbs, and over all arrange some little 
pieces of butter, salamander, and serve. 

Champignons a la Bordelaise. 

Take half-a-pound of fresh mushrooms of good 
size, peel and place them in an earthenware dish 
with plenty of pepper and salt to season, also a 
small piece each of garlic and parsley. Place the 
dish in the oven and baste continually with 
melted butter ; remove after an hour's cooking, and 
broil each mushroom slightly over a moderate fire. 
Make a sauce of the liquor contained in the baking- 
dish by adding flour and butter. 

Cheese Custards. 

Take two ounces of grated cheese, three tea- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream, one egg well-beaten, 
a little cayenne and salt to taste. Beat all well 



Sa TEMPTING DISHES. 

together, bake in a small dish in a gentle oven for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve very hot. 



Cheese Pudding:. 

Beat up two eggs well', mix in three ounces 
of grated cheese. A little salt, cayenne, made 
mustard and a little milk. Thoroughly mix and 
pour into a buttered pic-dish and bake. 



Cheese Tartlets. 

Beat up the yolk of an egg ; mix with it two 
tablespoon fuls of grated Parmesan cheese, a dust 
of cayenne pepper, and a little salt. Have ready 
a little very light puff paste, line half a dozen small 
patty-pans with it, or cut it into small squares ; put 
a little mixture into each pan, or in the centre of 
the squares, fold the latter over corncrways, or 
pinch the four corners into the centre ; bake for 
a few minutes. The paste may be cut into finger- 
strips and the mixture spread on half of them, 
placing the others sandwich fashion over them. 



Colcannon. 

Boil some potatoes and any kind of greens, 
separately. Mash the former, and chop the latter 
very finely, and mix the two~togcthcr with a little 
butter, pepper, salt, and a very tiny piece of chopped 
onion. I'ut all into a buttered mould, and atand 
it in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 



TEMPTING DtSt/KS. 



Convent Bggt. 

Boll four eggs for ten minutes, nut them Into 
told water ; peel and nkln one onion very thin ; 
then put Into a fryingpan one ounce of butter, 
^nd, when melted, add the onion, a tcaspoonful of 
flour, httlf-a-pfnt of milk, salt, and pepper ; then 
add the egg*, cut crosswise, each into six pieces. 
Serve upon toast. 

Croute* a la Cttmpogne, 

Take nix boned ami well-washed anchovies, 
pound them together with the yolk* of hard -boiled 
eggs, about a quarter of n pound of butler, and a 
tiny dust of Nepaul pepper, and a little cochineal 
colouring, found these Into a smooth paste, rub 
through wire sieve, ami then arrange them on to 
some Utile round fried croutons, and sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley over, 



Croutes of Haddock. 

Take a Mnnon haddock about a pound In 
weight, free it from skin and bones, and put It Into 
a stewpnn with two ounces of butter, four table- 
spoonfuls of milk, a wcll-beatcn yolk uf egg, a llttlo 
pepper, and a teaspoon ml of Icniun-julce. Whisk 
these ingredients quickly over the fire for fivd 
minutes, by which time the fish will bo smooth. 
1'lle this on some small rounds of hot buttered 
toast. Sprinkle the tops lightly with finely minced 
parsley and coralline pepper, and serve. 



jV , 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



Curried Eggs on Toast. 

Cut some round pieces of fried bread, curry 
some onions, and put a good layer of them on the 
fried rounds of bread. Keep very hot while the 
required number of eggs is being poached, and lay 
a poached egg on each round of curry toast, and 
serve quickly. 

Devilled Biscuits. 
Take some water biscuits, steep them in milk 
for ten minutes, take them out, dust them with 
cayenne, salt and black pepper, and bake them in a 
slow oven for twenty minutes. 

Devilled Lobster. 

Take the meat from a lobster and put on a little 
Nepaul pepper, chop it very finely, then add a 
dessertspoonful of chutney, a little oiled butter and 
a tomato cut up small. These must be stewed 
over the fire, stirring til! they boil ; add a little 
mixed mustard (French also if available). Have 
ready some little squares of fried bread, and put 
some of the devilled lobster on each, and sprinkle a 
little finely chopped parsley over. 



Devilled Sardines. 

Take six sardines and spread over them on 
both sides some made mustard and a dash of 
cayenne, grill them and serve on hot buttered toast ; 
garnish with slices of lemon. 



TEMPTING DISHES. j 5 

Eggs & la Bonne Femme. 

Get as many eggs as there arc guests (they 
should all be of the same size) ; boil them for ten 
minutes and put them into cold water to cool, then 
remove the shells very carefully, cut them in half] 
remove the yolks and cut from each the pointed tip 
of white so that they should stand quite flat 
Make some very tiny dice of cold chicken, ham, 
beetroot and the yolks of the eggs. Fill the 
hollows with these up to the brim, and pile it high 
up in the centre. Arrange lettuce on the dish, and 
place the eggs in the midst of it 

Eggs and Mushrooms. 

Hard boil three or four eggs, cut them length- 
wise, scoop out the yolks and put in their place a 
mixture of equal parts of tomatoes and mushrooms 
rubbed through a sieve ; close the two halves of the 
eggs and lay them on a bed of hot crisped parsley. 
The eggs should be heated a few minutes before 
serving, and then some hot clear butter poured over 
them. 

Finnon Haddock with Poached Eggs. 

Heat a large pic-dish, place the haddock in it 
and cover it with boiling water ; put a dish over 
and allow the fish to soak for eight minutes. The 
haddock should now be swollen to nearly double 
its original size. Drain it from the water and place it 
with the skin downwards in a Dutch oven before the 
fire, with several lumps of butter on the top ; add also 
a little pepper and cayenne. The fish should remain 



56 TEMPTING DISHES. 

before the fire till a golden-brown colour, and it 
may require the tin turning, so as to bake equally. 
When done, place on a hot dish and cover the top 
with poached eggs, according to the number of 
persons. 

Gascony Butter. 

Take equal quantities of parsley picked from 
the stalk and parboiled, of boned and pounded 
anchovies, and of fresh butter. Mix the ingredients 
well together and pass them through a hair sieve ; 
shape the butter into little balls and ice them. 
These are nice little relishes for breakfast or 
lunch. 

Grenada Toasts. 

Cut some fat and lean bacon into dice, give 
them a few turns over the fire with parsley, green 
onions, pepper and salt ; add the yolks of two eggs, 
stir them well together, and spread over slices of 
fried bread. 

Ham Balls. 

Chop half a pound of cold lean ham, put a tea- 
cupful of milk on to boil, add to it half a teacupful 
of stale bread-crumbs and stir till it thickens; add 
two egg yolks, a little salt, cayenne pepper, and the 
chopped ham ; stir over fire till well heated, adding 
a little minced parsley ; leave till cold. 



~> 



Ham Toast. 

A quarter-pound of lean ham chopped very 
fine, a dessertspoonful of butter and the yolk of an 




TEMPTING DISHES. y 

egg, a dust of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of cream 
or milk ; stir over fire in a saucepan till it thickens, 
then spread on toast 

Jerusalem Artichokes and Cheese. 

Boil some artichokes, and cover them with a 
sauce made with a dessertspoonful of flour, rubbed 
into cold water (about a tcacupful), and stirred 
over the tire till hot, then a little butter and grated 
Parmesan cheese stirred in till the former is dis- 
solved. 

Macaroni a l'ltalieune. 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water, and 
let it boil till cooked, which will be in twenty-live 
minutes ; allow half a pound of macaroni to a pint 
of boiling water. Take some tomato sauce, and 
add a good piece of fresh butter to it whilst cooking ; 
then pour on some good beef gravy, and thoroughly 
warm. Drain the macaroni, and place a layer of 
it in a deep dish, and sprinkle well with grated 
Gruyere and Parmesan cheese ; pour on it a small 
portion of the sauce and gravy mixed, and ttryAot, 
so as to melt the cheese ; then place another layer 
of macaroni, grated cheese and sauce ; then strain 
well, without breaking the macaroni, after which 
continue putting on layers, and finally serve. 

Macaroni a la Milanese. 

Boil a tcacupful of macaroni till tender, strain 
it off, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter, 
pepper and salt ; add a teaspoonful of tomato pulp ; 
serve hot, and hand grated cheese separately. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



Mushrooms au Gratin. 

Scoop out the inside of some nice round cup 
mushrooms after peeling them ; cut off the stalks, 
peel them and chop them up with a small bit of 
onion, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch 
of thyme and a piece of thin lcmon-pcel, the size 
of sixpence ; fry these in bacon fat, flavour with 
pepper and salt, and add sufficient quantity cf 
bread-crumbs to fill the hollowed-out mushrooms. 
Fill the hollows with this mixture and cover with 
a few bread-crumbs, and cook very slowly in good 
fat in a stewpan, keeping them well covered to keep 
in the flavour. Serve with a little gravy poured 
round. 

Mushrooms with Toast. 

Rub the tops of the mushrooms with a piece of 
flannel dipped in salt. Heat some butter in a sauce- 
pan, into which put the mushrooms with a little 
salt and Ncpaul pepper ; let them stew gently till 
the butter has almost disappeared, when add cream 
and the grated rind of a lemon. Let them simmer 
now only till done. Serve the mushrooms on cut 
rounds of fried bread, and squeeze some lemon- 
juice over them. 

Pailles de Parmesan. 

Grate four ounces of Parmesan cheese, four 
ounces of bread-crumbs, the same quantity each 
of flour and butter, and add a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Make into a paste (use a little milk to 
mix), cut this into narrow strips of half an inch 
thickness, and bake in a quick oven for five minutes. 
Serve cold. 




TEMPTING DISHES. 59 

Potatoes and Bacon. 
Cut thin rashers of bacon, fry them, and when 
cooked throw into the fat in the saucepan some 
roughly chopped potatoes ; pile them on a hot dish, 
brown in front of the fire, and serve with the 
rashers on the top. Season the potatoes well with 
pepper and salt 

Baked Potatoes with Cheese. 

Scour the potatoes and bake them till done ; 
cut their tops nearly off and scoop out the insides ; 
mix with them a little grated cheese, an egg, a little 
butter or milk, salt and pepper ; fill the skins with 
this mixture, replace the tops, and bake them again 
till hot 

Potato and Cheese Patties. 

Mash three or four potatoes, mix them with a 
little butter, milk, grated cheese, salt and pepper ; 
put a little of the mixture in each patty-pan and 
bake for a few minutes. Paper Ramekin cases 
can be filled with them, instead of using patty* 
pans. 

Potato and Ham Sandwiches. 

Stir two eggs into a quart of well-seasoned 
mashed potatoes without beating ; on two table- 
spoonfuls of this potato lay a slice of cold ham 
neatly trimmed ; cover with the same amount of 
potato, press firmly together round the edges, 
dredge with flour on both sides ; have some boiling 
fat ready on the stove, and fry these a delicate 
brown. 




TEMPTING DISHES. 



Potatoes a la Lyonnaise. 

Mince an onion and fry it in hot butter; add 
cold sliced potatoes, and stir them till they are 
fried white ; then add a little minced parsley. 

Potatoes a la Maltre d'H6tel. 
Boil six potatoes for half an hour ; when cool, 
peel and cut them into thick slices. Put two 
ounces of butter, one tablcspoonful of minced 
parsley, a little pepper and salt, and two table- 
.-.poonfuls of gravy juice into a stewpan ; mix to- 
gether, put in the potatoes, and shake the sauce- 
pan, so that the sauce may cover them well. When 
quite hot squeeze some lemon over, and serve. 

Potato Puff. 

One pint hot mashed potato ; add one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper, two 
spoonfuls of celery salt, one tablcspoonful of butter, 
and hot milk to moisten. When partly cool add 
the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake for ten minutes. 
Beat lightly. 

Scotch Woodcock. 

Take a couple of slices of buttered toast, place 
an anchovy on each slice ; take the yolks of two eggs 
and a gill of milk or cream. Separate the yolks from 
the whites of the eggs, beat the formc'r,~"and stir 
them into the cream or milk, and bring the same 
to boiling point or it will curdle. Take the hot 
buttered toast and spread with the anchovies 
pounded to a paste ; pour a little of the hot sauce 
on the top and serve quickly and hot 




TEMPTING DISHES. 61 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake six potatoes of equal size ; when done and 
still hot cut off a small piece from the end of each 
potato, scoop out the inside, mash and mix with 
half the quantity of any cold mcat,highly seasoned 
and finely minced. Fill the skins a little above the 
edge. Set in the oven to brown the tops. 

Rice Croquettes with Parmesan. 

Wash half a pound of rice and simmer slowly 
in a quart of milk and water until the rice is nicely 
swollen and the quart of liquid all absorbed. Then 
place in a colander before the fire and shake occa- 
sionally until the rice is quite dry. Add bread- 
crumbs and grated I'armcsan (an equal cupful of 
each), a little salt and cayenne ; then roll into small 
round balls, dip each one into egg and butter, and 
fry a delicate brown. Sprinkle thickly with grated 
I'armcsan and serve cither hot or cold. 

Rice and Cheese, 

Boil some rice in milk till tender and all the milk 
is soaked up, then mix in some grated cheese, 
pepper and salt; put the mixture in a small pic- 
dish, shake some grated cheese over the top, and 
bake in the oven till the top is nicely browned. 

It must be well moist before it is baked. Mus- 
tard should be served with it 

Risotto a la Milanese. 

Cut up an onion and fry it a nice brown, but do 
not burn it. I'ut this into a saucepan with half a 
pound of rice and some nice stock to it, and let the 



f 




6) TEMPTING DISHES. 

rice cook gently till all the stock is soaked up. 
Season with a little pepper and salt, and serve 
with grated cheese. 

Sardine Sandwich 
Remove the skin and bones from six sardines j 
mash them, add a teaspoonful of made mustard, 
one of lemon-juke, one of Worcestershire sauce ; 
pound, and add gradually one tablcspoonful of 
olive oil ; when smooth spread thinly on small 
crisp water biscuits ; dust thickly with the yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs mashed fine ; serve with water- 
cress or lettuce. 

Savoury Custard. 

Beat up two eggs, and stir into them a teacup- 
ful of cold beef-tea or some bovril ; add a little 
salt and pepper ; pour into a small buttered basin . 
cover with a buttered paper and place in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, which should come rather 
more than half-way up, and steam gently for half 
an hour. 

Savoury Croutons. 

Cut some slices of stale bread into fancy 
shapes — rounds, diamonds, heart-shapes, trefoils, 
etc. — and soak these thoroughly in milk; then 
sprinkle them on both sides with a mixture of 
minced onion, herb powder, pepper, salt and 
chopped parsley ; press this well into the croutons, 
and fry them in boiling fat ; drain carefully ; pile 
up high on a hot napkin, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve hot. The croutons may be soaked in 
white stock instead of milk. 




TEMPTING DISHES. 6} 

Savoury Pancakes. 

Put six tablespoonfuls of flour in a basin with a 
teaspoonful of salt ; make this into a batter of the 
proper consistence as thick as double cream, with 
three large eggs well beaten and a little milk ; beat 
the mixture briskly with a wooden spoon till every 
tiny knot is smooth ; then stir in a tablespoonful 
of minced onion ; a teaspoonful of herb powder ; 
and a good dust of pepper. Let the batter stand 
a few hours, then fry a small teacupful at a time 
in boiling fat or lard ; as each pancake is finished 
roll it up bolster fashion, sprinkle pepper and 
salt over, and serve as quickly after being cooked 
as possible. 

Spinach Souffle". 

Make a thick puree of spinach, using good 
stock to mix it with ; add half a tablespoonful of 
flour, a little salt, pepper, and an ounce of butter ; 
let all this boil till thick, then add the yolks of 
two eggs, a gill of milk, and mix well together. 
Just before sending to tabic, add the whipped 
whites of the eggs and put into the oven till 
cooked. 

Strew hard-boiled egg (yolk and white), passed 
through the sieve, over the top. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 



Choose a large cabbage ; remove the outside 
leaves ; throw into boiling water with salt and boil 
for ten minutes ; then throw it into cold water ; 
drain and press it with the hands to get all the 
moisture out ; take out the middle of the cabbage 
and fill it with a stuffing made of sausage meat. 



64 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



bacon, or the remains of cold meat, etc., chopped ; 
cover the stuffing with cabbage leaves ; tie up the 
cabbage ; cook it in a stewpan with slices of bacon 
over, and under it herbs, carrots, onions, cloves 
and nutmeg ; moisten with stock or broth, and cook 
slowly from two and a half to three hours. When 
done put the cabbage on a dish ; skim and strain 
the gravy, and pour some over the cabbage. 

Tomatoes and Cheese. 

Cut off the tops of the tomatoes, remove the 
insides ; mix with them a little grated cheese, pepper, 
salt, butter, and grated bread-crumbs ; fill them with 
this mixture and bake in a buttered tin. 






Tomatoes and Cream. 

Slice the tomatoes rather thick and turn off all 
the juice that escapes ; sprinkle with sugar, and just 
before they are served pour cream over them. 

Tomatoes and Eggs. 

Boil some ripe tomatoes and pulp them through 
a coarse sieve, stir in two or three eggs according 
to size of dish, pepper, salt, and a little butter, and 
fry all together lightly. A little fine onion is an 
improvement. 

Tomato Pancakes. 

Make a batter as for savoury pancakes, and stir 
into it, instead of the onion, etc., four ripe tomatoes 
skinned and beaten to a pulp. Fry and serve in 
the usual manner, or they may be fried with the 
onions and the herbs as in the previous recipe ; then 



TEMPTING DISHES. 6j 

when nicely set and turned a couple of spoonfuls of 
hot stewed tomatoes may be lightly laid in the 
centre of each pancake ; the edges must then be 
turned over and the whole nicely browned. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take half a pound of sliced tomatoes and one 
ounce of Spanish onion, cut into very thin rings. 
Lay the tomatoes on the bottom of the dish, 
scatter the rings over, dress with vinegar, black 
pepper and salt 

Tomatoes on Toast 

Take six or eight ripe tomatoes, cut oflf the 
stalks and any green part there may be, take out 
the seeds and cut the tomatoes into thick slices ; 
arrange these in a single layer on a greased baking- 
tin, sprinkle over them some finely sifted bread- 
crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ; put a little 
piece of butter on each slice and bake in a brisk 
oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve on 
neatly cut pieces of hot buttered toast, with the 
gravy that is in the dish with them poured over ; a 
few drops of lemon-juice is an improvement 

Vegetable Marrow au Parmesan. 

Peel and cut in half a vegetable marrow; take 
out the seeds and soft part, and cut it into neat oval- 
shaped fillets about three inches long and two inches 
wide. Put them into a small stewpan with a piece 
of butter and stew till tender ; add pepper and salt 
and serve on fried croutons of bread and pour 
Parmesan sauce over them. 



66 TEMPTING DISHES. 

Anchovy Sauce. 
Prepare some melted butter (sec ' Melted 
Butter ), add a little cayenne, and add when the 
sauce is over the fire a tcaspoonful of essence of 
anchovies. 

Apple Sauce. 

Take half a dozen good sized apples and throw 
them into cold water, alter paring and coreing them. 
Then put them into a saucepan with sufficient water 
to moisten them, and boil till soft enough to pulp. 
Beat them up, adding a little sugar to taste and a 
small piece of butter. 

Bread Sauce, to Make. 

Take half a pint of milk, and boil in it a slialnt 
which has one clove stuck in it for five minutes ; 
then add two ounces of grated freshly made bread- 
crumbs, and an ounce of butter. Let the sauce 
simmer gently for ten minutes, at the end of which 
time the shalot must be taken out of the sauce, 
and two good tablespoon fuls of cream added to it, a 
pinch of salt, a dust of white pepper, and a trifle of 
Ncpaul pepper. The sauce must boil for a few 
minutes more, and will then be ready to serve. 
The cream can be omitted. 

Caper Sauce. 

Make some melted butter and take two table- 
spoonfuls of capers with some of their liquor, chop 
the capers in halves, and add them with their 
liquor to the melted butter, and keep stirring well 
Let the sauce simmer, and then serve. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 67 

Egg Sauce. 

Take half a pint of melted butter and twc eggs 
hard boiled. The eggs should be boiled for twenty 
minutes and then thrown into cold water for half 
an hour ; then strip off the shells, chop the eggs 
(not too fine), and stir into the melted butter on 
the fire, with a squeeze of lemon-juice. A table- 
spoonful of cream is a great improvement 

Horseradish Sauce. 

One teaspoonful of made mustard, a dessert- 
spoonful of condensed milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, and as much grated horseradish as will 
make it as thick as custard. A good tablespoonful 
of cream is a great improvement 

Lobster Sauce. 

Make some good melted butter as per recipe, 
add a dust of coralline pepper to it, and a couple 
of tablespoonfuls of cream if wanted superior. 
Take the meat from a new lobster and cut it into 
small square pieces, put the spawn into a mortar 
with half an ounce of butter and pound it smooth, 
rub it through a hair sieve, put the pieces of lobster 
into the melted butter and the pounded spawn, 
stir well together over the fire and serve. 

Melted Butter. 

Take one teaspoonful of flour, one ounce of 
butter, and not quite half a pint of milk, and a few 
grains of salt Mix the butter and a tittle of the 
milk smoothly together in a basin, and melt the 



M TUMfriNG HISIIF.M. 

hulier In Ihe wtueepan ; \mi lh« AW-pMte. Into tht 
tuA l*Mi tec In tlw iwueepin ; (ttlr It WW (He fir* for mi« 
tnlnule and then pour In the remainder i4 the mftU ; 
ia-iyi Mitring one way only over * rjufefc fire ; Jet 
It l»"i) 'juicltfy I'/f a minute <*■ two, and then ft will 
he ready to nerve. Thf» Muce In (fie foundation of 
nil '/liter Miucet, 

Mustard ftauce. 

Mix (mir tabletfftoonful* of mutlard, and una 
tetwfjooruul of salt, wjiti enough Chili vinegar I*/ 
form a «mooth paste, then ntlr in half a pint of 
vinegar. 

Onion Sauce, 

feel •owe onion* and f^it them Into a Utile 
wit and water, and let litem »t</(/ for fifteen 
minute*. Then put them Into a •aw^epaii, "ivcr 
them with water, and Id (Item Ml (ill |e»fl' '- 
Then drain the onton*, * hop them finely, and ritl/ 
them through a *Ieve, 'Juke half* j*fnt of nHf>d 
hulfer i»m ' Melted Batter '^ and when 11 ft Ijofhrig 
put fn the onion*, km*om with a very little tsuli 
and ¥tim wljlt-9 pepper, and nerv* 

Oyster Sauce, 

TaV« half a pint of incited hutler <vn uifdei 
'Melted Duller '/and put into 11 lh« If'juor of t)f. 
oysuts, and In wjii'.h ll'mor the heard* of (he 
oyster* tltoiild he *»,«)ded and then *f mined ; add a 
lew drop* of e**enee of aU'.hovy, a l*a*poonml of 
lemon-jiiio*, and a d»*h */f '.avenue; boil up, and 
then put hi tlte oy*W» unbooked, 1/Ul '.ut fn bail, 
A labt'-tpoonful of treaifi ft a great improvement. 




TEMPTING DISHES. 69 

Parsley Sauce. 

Take one ounce of butter and one and a half 
ounces of flour, and fry them until they become a 
pale gold colour ; then add, by degrees, half a pint 
of boiling water, and stir the sauce over the fire 
till it boils, then strain the sauce through a tammy. 
Then add the parsley, which has been made thus. 
Take a good handful of parsley and branch it, 
press out all the water, mix a little butter with it 
and a little green colouring, and then rub through 
a hair sieve ; then mix it with the sauce and add a 
tablespoonful of cream. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Take a handful of parsley and put it into a 
stewpan, and cover it with cold water ; add a little 
soda and a pinch of salt, and bring the water 
quickly to the boil ; strain it off and press the 
water well from the parsley. Mix an ounce of 
butter with the parsley and rub it through a hair 
sieve. Fry an ounce of butter and an ounce and 
a half of flour together till a pale gold colour ; 
then pour on rather more than half a pint of boil- 
ing water, and stir over the fire till the sauce boils ; 
then strain it, and afterwards add the parsley 
and two tablespoon fuls of cream. If the parsley 
is a bad colour, a little green colouring may be 
added. 

Piquante Sauce {another way}. 

Take a dessertspoonful of chopped shalot, one 
of capers, and one of pickled gherkins. Put these 
into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of vinegar 
and a bay leaf, and let all simmer till the vinegar 




73 TEMPTING DISHES. 

has evaporated very nearly away ; then add half a 
pint of good brown gravy, and add a little salt 
If required thick, add some brown thickening, and 
skim the sauce to get rid of any grease. 

Corn-flour Cake. 

Beat a quarter of a pound of outter, and the 
same of sugar, to a cream ; add the yolks of two 
eggs, beating all the time, and the grated rind of 
a lemon ; stir in six ounces of corn-flour, which 
should be warmed and sifted, and then the whites- 
stiffly whipped. Bake in a buttered and papered 
tin for an hour. 

Crisp Biscuits. 

Make a pound of flour, the yolk of one egg, 
and some milk, into a very stiff paste, beat it well, 
knead it smooth, roll very thin, and cut into 
biscuits. Bake in a slow oven till quite dry and 
crisp. 

Drop Cakes. 

Put one pound of flour into a basin, and rub 
into it half a pound of butter ; add a quarter of 
a pound of castor sugar ; grate the peel from one 
lemon, and add to it Mix in a quarter of a pound 
of currants, and two eggs, well beaten; stir well 
all together, and drop this mixture on to a floured 
baking-tin in lumps, and bake in a moderate oven 
from a quarter to half an hour. 

Gingerbread Cake. 

Take a pound and a half of flour, one pound 
of treacle, a quarter of a pound of butter, one tea- 
epoonful of carbonate of soda, the same of ground 




TEMPTING DISHES. 71 

ginger and of ground cinnamon, half a teaspoonful 
of auspice, and half an ounce of carraway seeds, 
two ounces of sugar and of orange-peel, two eggs, 
and enough milk to make all into a stiff paste. 
Melt the butter ; add this to the treacle, then add 
the eggs, well-beaten. Mix all the dry ingredients 
together, and to these add the liquid with sufficient 
milk to form a stiff paste, and stir all well up. 
Line two cake-tins with buttered paper, put in the 
mixture in equal quantities, and bake about an 
hour in a moderate oven. 

Thin Ginger Wafers. 

Beat four ounces of butter to a cream and mix 
in four ounces of golden syrup ; stir in four ounces 
of flour and one ounce of pounded ginger ; roll out 
thin, and bake for fifteen minutes in a slow oven ; 
roll like wafers when warm. 

Potato Cakes. 

Rub two ounces of beef dripping and two 
ounces of lard into one pound of flour. Add 
a teaspoonful of baking-powder and a pound of 
cold boiled and baked potatoes. Mix thoroughly 
with one well-beaten egg, and as much lukewarm 
milk as will make a smooth light pasta Roll this 
out about one inch in thickness, and cut in any 
desired shape. Bake in a buttered tin. 

A Pound Cake. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs, and whip up the 
whites in a separate basin, cream six ounces of 
butter, and add it to the beaten eggs. Dredge in 



"-I 



73 TEMPTING DISHES. 

gradually six ounces of flour, and the same quan- 
tity of sugar. Mix all these ingredients lightly 
together, and beat the cake for half an hour. Pour 
it into a well-greased cake-tin and bake in a quick 
oven for about an hour. 

Scones. 

Dissolve half a saltspoonful of carbonate of 
soda and five ounces of butter in a quarter of a 
pint of warm milk. Put ten ounces of flour into 
a bowl, add a pinch of salt, and stir into the milk 
in which the butter has been dissolved, until it is 
a stiff dough. Roll out into a cake a quarter of 
an inch thick, and bake on a girdle from twelve to 
fifteen minutes. 

■ Seed Cake. 

Rub six ounces of dripping into a pound of 
flour ; add a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of mixed 
spice, a tablespoonful of carraway seeds, and six 
ounces of sugar. Mix the dry ingredients tho- 
roughly. Dissolve a teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda into half a pint of milk, add a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and stir into the cake. Beat the cake well, 
put it into a buttered hoop, and bake in a moder- 
ately heated oven for one hour. 

Soda Cake. 

Take a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, 
half a pound of moist sugar, half a pound of cur- 
rants, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 
a quarter of a pint of milk, three eggs. Mix all 
well together, and bake immediately. 




TEMPTING DISHES. 



Tea Cakes. 



Take three eggs, beat the yolks and mix them 
with half a pound of flour, and four ounces of castor 
sugar. Beat six ounces of fresh butter to a cream, 
add the other ingredients gradually to the butter, 
and mix most thoroughly. Roll it out, and cut it 
into strips five inches long, and twist each strip 
into the shape of an S. Brush each one over with 
white of egg, and sugar slightly. Bake in a mode- 
rate oven for twenty minutes. 

Prairie Oyster. 

Take a wineglass, put into it half a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, break a new-laid egg into it, season 
with pepper and salt, sprinkle it with vinegar, and 
swallow like an oyster. 

Green Barley Water. 

This is a capital drink for garden and lawn- 
tennis parties, etc It is made by peeling three 
lemons very thinly, so that there is no white pith, 
placing to them a quart of boiling water, five or six 
large lumps of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of the 
juice. When cold and the water is highly flavoured, 
take out the pec! and stand the jug on ice. 

Lemon Squash. 

Press the juice from some lemons, and strain 
it free from all particles. To two quarts of juice 
put in a piece of alum as large as a walnut, and a 
piece of Spanish earth about the same size. In 
the morning the juice will be clear ; gently pour it 



74 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



off, or to its own bulk of white sugar acid one pint 
of water ; stir over a gentle fire till the sugar is dis- 
solved ; add the shell and white of one egg whisked 
a little, whip it into the lemon syrup and continue 
till it boils, Give a sharp boil up, strain through 
a cambric cloth, and bottle. The bottles must be 
very dry. Put two drops of essence of lemon in 
each, fill up with cold syrup and seal. One wine- 
glassful in a tumbler three parts filled with ice, and 
add soda-water from a syphon ; serve with straws. 

To Cook an Old Fowl. 

Prepare the fowl for roasting, stuff it with bread- 
crumbs, parsley, and a little sweet herb, a very 
small onion, salt, pepper. Truss securely and boil 
for three hours, and it will eat as good as a young 
fowl. 

Cooking Hints. 

Royal icing must always be mixed with a 
wooden spoon, adding a few drops of lemon to 
make the icing whiter. 

Mutton chops should be broiled over a clean 
but not fierce fire ; pour a little salad oil over the 
chops, and sprinkle them with a little pepper and 
salt an hour before broiling them. 

Asparagus, to Boil. 

The special pots now sold are a great boon to 
lovers of asparagus, because in them asparagus can 
be boiled vertically. The asparagus should be put 
in upright, with the points at the top. Then, if the 
salted water is kept very fast boiling at a level not 
much more than half the height of the asparagus, 




TEMPTING DISHES. 71 

it may be given more than double the usual time, 
which is a great advantage, because the lower part 
is made tender and edible, while the frail green 
portion is never touched by the water, and takes its 
due time to soften and swell without losing shape. 
Forty minutes will not harm them. There is an 
asparagus saucepan sold by Wilson & Co., W ardour 
Street, in which it is impossible to cook them any- 
thing but perfectly. 

Spinach, to Cook. 

Boil the spinach with very little water, and put 
it into a saucepan with a little butter, pepper and 
salt, an eggspoonful of castor sugar ; thicken with a 
little flour, and then add a little cream and let it 
boil 

Eggs, to Poach. 

Just a drop of vinegar should be put Into the 
water, which should be boiling before the eggs are 
put into it After each egg has been put into the 
pan the water should reboil before another egg is 
put into it ; and the eggs should be rinsed in fresh 
hot water when they are cooked. 

Baking. 

To bake properly and get the oven properly 
and quickly hot the flues must be very clean. 

The oven should be heated to a temperature 
above that of boiling water, and it must be perfectly 
hot at starting. The ventilator should be shut at 
first, but in about ten minutes' time it should be 
opened. Meat should be baked on a proper tin, 



75 TEMPTING DISHES. 

that is a double one, and placed on a gridiron in 
the upper tin, and the under tin rilled with hot 
water. The joint must be basted every fifteen 
minutes and done as quickly as possible, as the 
oven-door should not be kept open. If one side is 
petting more brown than the other, turn it round. 
Keep the fire up so that the oven is kept hot all 
the time. Meat baked requires ten minutes for 
every pound to cook it ; if there be much fat, it will- 
take a little longer. Do not bake meat and pastry 
at the same time, as the steam renders the crust 
heavy. 

Boiling. 

The water must be violently boiling and the 
meat suddenlyput into it, and the boiling must not 
be stopped by the insertion of the meat, but must 
continue incessantly for from ten to fifteen minutes, 
after which it should be reduced to a simmer till 
done. The scum rising to the top must be skimmed 
off from time to time ; a little salt should be put 
into the water when about half-done. This rule for 
boiling meat does not apply to fish, as nearly all 
kinds, especially turbot and cod, must be put into 
cold water and brought to a boil gradually. Salmon 
and trout arc best put into boiling water, and 
soles and all small fish into warm water only. 



Broiling. 

The fire for broiling should be hot and clear; 
the gridiron should be close down on the fire, and 
gradually raised as cooking proceeds. 




TEMPTING VtSltKS. 97 

Frying. 

To fry properly, plenty of boiling fat must be 
used and enough to cover whatever la being fried, 
and it must be hot enough to eolour a piece of 
bread directly it In thrown In— in fact, the fat should 
smoke. Kverythlng should bo dried before tt is 
fried, and if plunged then Into hot fat, a very little 
time in sufficient to cook it. When the crackling 
cease* it shows the fut is hotter than water. 

All fried things should be well drained when 
taken off the grid, mid the fut should be poured 
into a basin containing a little hot water and let 
stand till it is cold, when it will do to use again and 
again if the part next the water Is scraped to take 
off the impurities which will collect there. 

Routing, 

The fire and utensils should he thoroughly hot 
at starting ; for if not, and the temperatuie is only 
very warm, the effect is to soften and to sodden the 
surface of the meat, from which it will not recover 
afterwards j and the result would he the meat would 
be drained of a large portion of its vital elements, 
leaving the surface soft lu the end, and destitute ol 
the brownncss which is the sign of weU-rwwted 
meat, 

It is wty important the meat should be well 
hasted at intervals of about twenty minutes, and it 
tttuuld be done quickly and not too often. 

Stewing. 

Meat to hi; slewed should be put into cold 
water or cold stuck, and set on a good fire til) it 



rt TEMPTING DISHES. 

simmers. It must never get beyond simmering or 
it will spoil. It is a very slow process, extending 
to many hours, to a whole day or even two days. 
The water must not boil. The water must be kept 
nearly boiling, and when it is in this state little 
infinitesimal small bubbles will appear every now 
and then at the edges, and it must never be allowed 
to get beyond that point The time for simmering 
should be from ten to twelve minutes for every 
pound of meat 



Hints to Cooks. 

Salted and dried meats should be slowly boiled, 
and liquid must not be allowed to cool in pewter 
vessels. 

Rapid boiling hardens meat 

Fat for frying must be perfectly fresh. 

Fresh trimmings of meat should be used in the 
stock pot 

Avoid skewers in meat as much as possible. 

Always blow off the dust before removing the 
lid of a saucepan. 

Never leave anything in the pot after it has 
boiled. 

Never throw animal or vegetable substances into 
the dust-bin, they should be burnt on the kitchen 
fire. 

Have a time and place for everything. 

Cold meat is best if not cut when warm. 

Fresh vegetables will snap crisply. Stale ones 
will bend instead of break. 

Meat can be preserved in summer by covering 
it with bran. 




TEMPTING DISHES. 79 

Cooking utensils should always be wiped dry 
after using. 

Meat should never be washed, but wiped with a 
dry cloth. 

Cooking for dinner should commence early in 
the day, for hurry and good cooking can never go 
together. 

Be careful in dishing vegetables to drain them 
perfectly from the water. 

Meat should always be kept in a current of 



a&vr 




TERMS USED IN COOKING AND IN 
THE KITCHEN 

AihmaHiU i Reduced white sauce thickened with cream and yotki 

of egg and seasoned with lemon -juice. 
Anjph'ta i A preserve used for decorating, 
Asfk i A savoury jelly. 
Anitttt l Small entrees and hors-d 'omvrei, not more than a plate 

will hold. 
AsttiUu vt/anUn Dishes handed and not put on the table. 
Attlfti ■■ Small silver skewers used in garnishing. 
Ah hit* i Fish dressed In such a manner as to hare a bluish 

appearance. 
AHgras i Dressed with meat gravy. 
An jut t In the natural juice or gravy. 
An Ma/nrtli Plain simple cooking. 
fiat* : A kind of light sweet cake. 
£*in-m*rii t A metal pan which has a loose bottom to hold water, 

into which (mall saucepans can be put for keeping warm. 
Rortti i A thin slice of tat bacon placed over steaks, fowls, Ac, 

instead of larding. 
fiutttrit <it i mi'ii'm i A complete set of necessary apparatus for all 

culinary purposes. 
Pfthamtt i A rien while sauce made with cream. 
Jttigtut t A pancake or fritter. 
/tiifiu i A soup made with shell fish. 
/limit i While broth. 
iiliinth t To parboil, to scald vegetables, Sc , In order to remove 

skin*, Ac, and to whiten poultry. 
J!J<tii</nttft i A kind of fricassee made with white sauce and 

thickened with yolk of egg. 
filigmr i To fritter anything in buttered egg and fry. 
/i'iWi'i* i A rich mixture of different meats minced. 
Ftmillii Beef much baited. 
JtfUilhn i A thin soup or broth, 

&ttipttt> Simply parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf lied together. 
AVnfiMf jwm'i The same with the addition of cloves, 
Ffnrg*igH*tt t A ragout or truffles. 
Unit* i Meat cooked with bacon in a closely covered stewpan, to 

prevent evaporation, j 



Bi TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Braisiirei A saucepan wilh ledges to the !itl, so a' tcput fire en the 

Bridtr : To trass fowls with a needle and thread. 

Brioche : A kind of light spongy cake. 

Bullion : A clu-.tir ur liis-.li <>i smyihiri;; piled on n dish. 

Callipash: The glutinous flesh of the turtle found on the upper 
shell. 

CaUipti ■ The same found on the under shell. 

( 'mutism I Small rolls of anything filled with meat, Iruit, or mince?. 

Capilotaile : A hash ofpoultry. 

Caramel: Burnt sugar. 

Casserole : A crust of rice, which, having hecn moulded to the re- 
quired shape, is tilled with mince, fricassee, &c 

Charlotte: Thin slices of bread steeped in clarified butter and placed 
in a plain mould with fruit or cream. 

Chartreuse : An ornamental entree composed chiefly of quenelle 
forcemeat and arranged in a plain mould. 

Chemiser : To line a mould. 

Civet : A dark thick stew. 

Compete : Stewed fruits served with syrup. 

Confiture : Preserves, sweets, jams, &c. 

Consommi : Strong clear gravy or broth. 

Contisi : Small ~-i:_i 1 2 ■ ■] -._ nl truitle;;, tiiiiyiie, Si:., inlaid as ornaments 
by incision In fillets of any kind, 

Coulis : A rich brown gravy. 

Couronne, en : To dish up entries in the form of a crown. 

Croquantcs : A bright mixture of fruit and liuiled sugar. 

Croquette! ; Minces of meat, fish, or fowl made into various shapes, 
rolled in egg and bread-crumbs and fried crisp. 

Croustades : Fried shapes of bread upon which various entries are 

Croutons : Fried ■.ippeis of fn-iiil used for garnish. 

Dariolc ; A sweet tart baked in a mould. 

Daube, en : Meat, fowl, or game stewed in sauce. 

Daubiire : An oval stewpan. 

Disaster : To bone poultry, game, fish, &.C. 

Entrh : Dishes handed round after the fish, comprising cutlets, 

salmis, chartreuses, and all made dishes, &c. 
Entremets: Second-course di >\:-::,, ci>m[n-i.«ing dressed vegetables, 

savouries, and sweets of all kinds. 
Escalopes : Collops, small thin round pieces of mtnt, poultry, or fish. 
Eipagnole : Drown sauce, very rich. 

Fagot: A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay leaf. 
Fanchonnettes : Varieties of small pastry mcringucd over. 
Farce i Forcemeat stuffing. 
Farciei Stuffed. 
Ftuilletage : Rough paste. 




AND IN THE KITCHEN. 8j 

Flair : A French custard. 

b'lambtr : To singe fowls or game. 

Flaw : Varieties of French cheese cakes. 

Florentines : Light pastry iced over. 

Fonter : To pat slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of the sauce- 



Fonaue : A 



se dish of the souffle 1 order. 
Fricandeaux : A dish of Iamb or veal cookery, &&, without bone 

larded and glazed with a concentration of their own liquor. 
Ftitaiiic : Chickens, &c , cut in pieces and cooked in rich white 

sauce with mushrooms and other accessories. 
Fritter: Anything made in batter and fried. 
Calttte : A broad thin cake, a kind of muffin, 
Gdteou : A cake. 
Gaufres : Light spongy biscuits. 
Glaci : Anything iced. 
Clou: Stock boiled down to jelly. 
Godivtau : A variety of forcemeats. 
Gras : Made with meat. 

Gratin ; A forcemeat made with meat and thin panee. 
Gratiner : To grill. 

Haricot x A stew made with mixed vegetables and meat. 
ffon-d'aTarres : These are appetisers, or whets lo the appetite, and 

eaten before soup, and consist of sardines, oysters, and anchovies, 

caviare, foreign dried sausages, &c. 
Jardiniere x Vegetables stewed in [heir own sauce. 
Lardoen : The strips of bacon used for larding. 
Liaison : A mixture of cream and egg, used to thicken with. 
Lit : Thin slices in layers with seasoning between. 
Luting : A paste made of flour and water and used to fasten on thu 

lids to pie-pans when preserving game, in order to prevent 

evaporation. 
MatMoine : A mixture of vegetables with the addition of some 

kind of sauce. 
Macfdoine of fruit : A mixture of fruits in syrup. 
Madeleine ; A kind of queen cake ornamented with preserve and 

sugar, &c. 
Maigre : Without meat. 

Mask : To cover meat over with forcemeat, Sc, 
Matelote \ A rich fish stew made with wine. 
Mayonnaise : Salad dressing. 
Maiarine ; An ornamental entree. 
Menu ; Bill of fore. 

Meringues : Light pastry made with whites of egg and sugar. 
Mirlittms : Varieties of French cheesecakes. 
Miroton : Slices of meat, larger than collops, stewed in rich sauce 

and dished up in a round. 



84 TERMS USED IN COOKING, ETC. 

Jfoitllltr : To add broth or water during cooking, 

*Vtnigal : A mixture of almond and burnt auear and lemon Juice 

iVtuitlti i Strips of patie made of Mp and flour. 

Panada: A mixture of brew), milk, lie, UM(I in making fore 

Paner: To egg and breadcrumb. 

Papillelct: Crvaval papei fail cned over ruJi and cutteta, 

Hli: Aumnll pie. 

J'aupiellti \ Slice* of meal rolled. 

Piiic dt rltiiluntt : The prin<:i|>,d joint of (he dinner. 

Pilau ; A rii«h of meat or poultry with rice. 

Piping: Sugar dctoratiom used in ornament I rig cakci, paltry, lit 

Plant: I-ardcd. 

J'/ut/it i Leave* of pnriley, chervil, tarragon, leltuca, Jtc, m 

very iitmll. 
PefUt ; Slock uied irutcad of water for boiling. 
Pelagt : Soup. 

Printanlirt : Early ipring vegetable*. 
Fnfittnlti : I.ifihi jiaslry with cream iniidc, 
Purii : Meat and vegetable! reduced to ■ pulp and then R)l*| 

with other liquid* to the conii.trncy of ihkk *oub. 
QuEtittlis ; Delicate forr''.-mr»t lomicil into ball* and poached. 



JilmalaJl: Salad d ratine. 

Jiinslei ; 1'tutry made of light puff potle filled with minei'i and 

fried. 
Ke-ux: A mixture of liulter and flour u-iol for lliicl:r .-niriy *ou|« and 

taucc* ; there are two kind*, white and brown. 
Salmi : A highly faulted hath of game or wild fowl with a rich 

Satpicm: A mixture of different finely diop|ied meat*, 

Saute piquant* : A thsrp >aure, fJDCfU or lemon predominating. 

Hauler; To cook in aaaucepan with tauce, corutantly abatting it. 

Sireiellt, d la : Served ui. in a la Lie -napkin. 

Siffeti : Small piece* of bread cut into different .luj«t, filed a;id 

used for (^rniih. 
;:-.■« in. ' ■. A light pudding. 
Stttk i The broth of which aoup* are mode. 
7'amii, tommy. A tlrainei or hoc tieve for tlralninrj broth, taucit, 

cream*, Ac, through. 
Timtmlt | A *ort of pie made in a mould. 
Taut it i Tart fruit pie Ukcd In a ahallow diih. 
Trtftt : A iweet dith made of tporige cake, macaroon*, jam, v,ir.ea, 

and linucur*. 
Tttiuur ; To iru**. 
V*leutf : A very rich white tauee. 




INDEX. 



— sauce, 66 
Apple compote, 3a 
Apple fritters, 33 

— sauce, 56 
Apple* i 1'enfance, 3a 
Asparagus, to boil, 75 



Baked eggs, 48 

Baking, 75 

Banana fritters, 34 

Barley water, green, 73 

Baiter puddings, 34 

Beef, fillets of, with mushrooms, 

— hashed, with tomatoes, 10 

— trifles, 1 1 
Beefsteak pudding, 11 

Biscuits, crisp, 70 

— devilled, 54 
Blancmange chocolate, 35 
Bloaters' brains on toast, 49 
Bloater puree, 49 

— roes, 49 

— stuffed, 49 
Boiling, 76 
Bread sauce, 66 
Break fas 1 dish, 50 



Brochet ofimclts, % 
Brodetloof fish, 5 
BroiJing, 75 



Cabbage it la crime, 30 

— and tomato, 50 

Calf's brains with black butter, 

— head fritters, 11 
Cakes, cornflour, 70 

— drop, 70 

— gingerbread, ?<> 

— pound, 71 

— soda, 73 
— 1<», 73 

Cannelons, French, 36 
Caper sauce, 66 
Carrot pudding, 34 
Celery, fried, 51 

— a la parmesan, 51 

Champignons a la BordclaUe, 

51 
Cheese cakes, lemon, 39 

— custards, 5 1 

— pudding, 5a 

— tartlets, 52 
Chicken croustade), IJ 

— cutlets, 13 



< 



Chicken, fried, 13 
Chocolate blancmange, 35 

— pudding, 35 
Colcnnnon, 52 
Convent eggs, S3 
Cooking hints, 74 
Cornflour cake, JO 
Crouslades of chicken , 13 
CroQtes a la campagne, 53 

— of haddock, S3 
Crumb pudding, 35 
Curried egg" on toast, 14, S4 
Curry, lamb's head, 17 

— tomato, ao 
Cutlets, chicken, 13 

— egg, 14 

— lobster, I? 

— potato, 24 



Devilled biscuits, 54 

— lobster, 54 

— sardines, 54 
Drop cakes, 70 
Duck, stewed, 70 
Dumplings, Norfolk, 40 

— y=ast. 47 



Eel bu gratin, 6 
Eels, stewed, 6 
Eggs, baked, 48 

— k In bonne femme, 35 

— cutlets, 14 

— kromeskies, 15 

— and mushrooms, 35 

— sauce, 67 

— to poach, 79 
Empress rice, 36 
Epigram of lamb, 15 



FIG mould, 36 
— pudding, 37 
Fillets of beef with : 



Finnon haddock with egg*, 

55 
Fish quenelles, 6 
Floating island, 37 
Frying, 7° 



37 

Gingerbread cake, 70 
— pudding, 38 
Ginger wafers, 71 
Gooseberry fool, $$ 
Grenada toasts, 56 



Haddock souffles, 7 
Ham balls, 56 
- toast, S o 
Haricot mutton, IS 
Hasty pudding, 38 
Hints to cooks, 78 
Horse-radish sauce, 67 



Jerusalem artichokes and 

cheese, 57 
Junket, 39 



Kidney fritters, 18 
Kromcskics, 19 



I ,,i« Ei cutlets mi parmessn, 16 

— epigram of, 1 5 
Lamb's fry, 16 

— head cuny, 17 
Lemon cheese-cakes, 39 

— pudding, 39 

— Kjuash, 73 

Lobster sauce, 67 




Macaroni a I'lttltenne, 57 
Mackerel with black butler, 7 
Miitl frltleti, 10 

— toait, M 
Melted bulltr, 67 
Milanese tlmhole, 30 
Muihroom eutltu, ai 

— nmladet, *fi 
— ■ an urittln, 58 
— . wllhtooit, 58 
Mimlanl h«, 6ft 

Mutton chopi tux l/gunm, it 

— oollot*. at 

— Icu hi, Wed, 11 

— tin n 1 arl tilt to, ai 

— tu rolw do chiiiiitirc, II 
Mn.wl. i It Roohelk, 7 



Monro Lit dumpling*, 40 



Onri.1T, iweel, 47 
On km noun, a 
Oiiiun. a lVlolle, B] 
Orange, fool, 41 

— mpilnuue |nldd 111);, 41 
• - pudding, 41 

Oyitur uuct, 08 

I'Aii.i.M da ptrnieean, jS 
I'anlcy mum, 69 
l'onr croouotttM, 4a 

— wit 111 Blade, 41 

— 1 tewed, 43 
llgeoni en enpote, * J 
I'lliptn ttrti, 33 
Piquant* laucr, (k) 
ISiiBitvrn and twci'ti, 59 

— linked, with clicne, 59 

— cake*. 71 

— and olicett ptltlea, 59 

— Cutlet*, n 

— and 1mm Mndwiitim, 59 

— i It I.yuniwla*. M 

— t la iimtt™ tl'hoid, 60 



Prairie oyttar, 7J 
l*uddlitg, batter, 34 

— bttftleak, 1 1 

-cheese'" 
— - cliocoltte, 35 

— crumb, JJ 

-- "b. V 

— central MtUfai-liiilt, 3) 
—- ui 11 |[c (bread, 38 

— haity, 38 

— Union, 39 

— orange, 41 
meringue, 41 

— ratafia, 44 

— tau*aK«i a 7 

— Stanley, 47 

— Yoikthira, 3* 



rUMMT, minced, 14 
-- t la pauletle, 15 

— a It Tutate, 15 
Knitoutt, 15 
Kmplwrry trllle, 44 
It alalia pudding, 44 
Rhubarb cream , 45 
Klee ertx]uelta«, 45 

— mil ohmm, 08 

— frltler*. 4J 

— with jnmieun, 6 1 
Klaotln, 16 

— a la Miltnaite, 61 
Roaming, 77 
tolled Jelly cake, 45 
Kuiiijutrok ft la boLinu bundle, 

»1 



Sauce, bread, 66 


Soup, ItalUn, I 


— caper, 66 


— kidney, a 


-egg, 67 




— horse- radish, 67 


— ila Russe, 4 


— lobster, 67 


— mustard, 68 


— sheep's head, 5 




Spinach, to cook, 74 


— oyster, 68 


Stanley pudding, 47 


— parsley, 69 


Stewing, 77 


— piquante, 69 




Sausage pudding, 27 




Savoury moulds, 27 


Tea cake*, 73 


Scones, 72 


Tomato curry, 29 


Scotch Miters, 47 


— salad, 65 


— woodcock, 60 


Tomatoes, prcserred, 46 


Seed cake, 72 


Tongue pie, ag 

Tripe a la Francaise, 31 


Sheep's Wains, roasted, 28 


— head au gratia, 2S 




*oup, 5 




Soda cake, 72 

Sole a 1'Espagnole, 8 


Veal mould, 31 


Vegetable marrow au p 




«n,6 5 


— fillet of, Ilalienne, 9 




» la reine, g 




jfonp, celery, 1 


VBAST dumplings, 47 


— game, 3 


Yorkshire pudding, 32 





Y 


m 









IV ' 




4 



LIBERTY RECIPES 



BY 

AMELIA DODDRIDGE 

Foruorljr, Initrector of Cooking, Mniranl Training High fcfcoot 

Indinaapollo, Indian*; nod Bworgoncy City Horn* 

ftmtioo Agoot Wilmington, Doloworo. Now, Hond 

of Boom Booponlet DoportaDont, Woootor 

Collogo, Wootttr, Ohio. 



CINCINNATI 

STEWART & KIDD COMPANY 

1918 

)■ 



THE NE7/ YOfcK J 

PUBLIC LIBRARY' 
AwmfSrf.rt'ri Ann 

TlLUI'.ll i '.'.N/MIIUJ. 
R 1 ! B L 



COFYBIOHT, 1918, BT 

BTBWART A KIDD COMPANY 
All Right$ Reserved 

COFTBIOHT XJT EKQLXKD 



• m 



♦ 






* • # 



♦ • • 



• • • 



• • : 



j .. i lit./ J; K 

PUBUC LIBRARY 



ASTOR, LENOX 
TILfeS^ FOUNDATIONS 




CONSERVATION SLOGANS 

Be a Kitchen Patriot and Conserve. 

Save an ounce a day ; 'twill surely pay. 

Peel potatoes thin and help our Sammies to 
Berlin. 

Place meat and buns behind the guns. 

The power of an ounce of Wheat is the power of 
a Democracy. 

Husband your stuff; don't stuff your husband. 

Sacrifice if necessary, but — "Look up at the stars 
and smile at the stripes." 

Be a Cheese Patriot; join the ranks and cheese 
the Kaiser. 

Let us all pull hard, and at the same "string" — 
save the foods that are needed. 

Bemember the * * Gospel of the Clean Plate. ' ' 

"Eat Plenty— Eat Wisely— Without Waste." 

15 



FOREWORD 

This book of reoipos and suggestions for using 
the "substitute" foods is offered to the house- 
wives and teachers of Cooking in our sohools, 
in the hope that it will bo of service in the pres- 
ent eniorgonoy call for Food Conservation. 
This collection is the outgrowth of several years 
of experience in working out practical reoipos 
and of six months' concentrated experimentation 
in the use of the special food products so greatly 
urged in these war-time days. 

However, it is not intended that this work be 
a " Liberty n issue only and to be used just for the 
present Sinoe all the recipes are tried and true, 
they should be usable and still practical even after 
the war clouds pass and Freedom is ours. 

Although numberless leaflets and bulletins of 
recipes are now available, the modern housewife 
with the multiplicity of increasing duties takes 
little time to use them in a benefiting way. Sho 
thinks it too much trouble to hunt in a pile of 



FOREWORD 

leaflets for the recipe she wishes at the particular 
time she needs it. Having this in mind, there is 
given in this book, in a concise form, a collection 
of recipes for breads, meat-substitute dishes, des- 
serts, cakes, and pastries, which affords an oppor- 
tunity for the selection of an entire menu, without 
having to consult various bulletins. Directions 
are given simply, and basic principles used freely 
so that even the untrained and inexperienced 
housewife or student may follow and the way be 
made easy. 

Acknowledgement is hereby given to the helpful 
suggestions obtained from various University 
and Government publications, and to friends who 
have generously offered recipes, and thus aided in 
making this book a reality. 

A. D. 

June, 1918. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PASS 

Conservation Slogans 16 

YEAST BREADS 

Nora on Yeast Breads 17 

Standard Bread Recipe 10 

Barley Bread I 21 

Barley Bread II 22 

Bran Bread 22 

Buckwheat Bread 23 

Corn Flour Bread 23 

Corn Meal Yeast Bread 24 

Mock "Graham" Bread 24 

Hominy Bread 25 

Oatmeal Bread I 25 

Oatmeal Bread II 26 

Potato Bread I 26 

Potato Flour Bread 26 

Potato Bread II 27 

Sweet Potato Bread 27 

Quick Tea Rolls . . . 27 

Barley Parker House Rolls 28 

Corn Flour Rolls 20 

Barley Bread 30 

Corn Flour Bread 30 

Ground Rolled Oats Bread 30 

Rice Flour Bread 31 

Rice Bread 31 

QUICK BREADS 

Suggestions for Quick Breads . 32 

Proportions or Ingredients 33 

Baking Powder Biscuits 33 

Muffins 34 





10 CONTENTS 

PAOR 

Barley Biscuits 34 

Barley Scones 34 

Bean Gems 35 

Buckwheat Biscuits .35 

Buckwheat Muffins ....... ..... 35 

Coin Floub Muffins 36 

Coin Meal Bbown Bread 36 

Wheatless Cokn Bread 36 

Cobn Meal Muffins 37 

Spoon Cobn Bbkad 37 

Cobn Pone 37 

Cobn Meal Bbead Sticks 38 

Egoless Joiinny Cake 38 

Egoless Muffins 39 

Emergency Biscuits 30 

Nut Bread 39 

Oatmeal Coffee Cake 40 

Oatmeal Muffins I .40 

Oatmeal Muffins II 40 

Potato Cobn Meal Muffins 41 

Potato Biscuits 41 

Rye and Rice Muffins 42 

Scotch Soup Sticks 42 

WHEATLESS BISCUITS AND MUFFINS 

Barley-Oatmeal Biscuit 43 

Barley Biscuit 43 

Buckwheat-Corn Flour Biscuit . 43 

Corn Floub Biscuit 43 

Corn Flour-Rolled Oats Biscuit 44 

Rice and Barley Flour Muffins ... ..... 44 

Rice and Ground Oats Muffins 44 

Oatmeal and Corn Flour Muffins 44 

Barley and Corn Flour Muffins 46 

MEAT SUBSTITUTE DISHES 

Bean Loaf with Tomato Sauce 46 

Tomato Sauce 46 



CONTENTS 11 

MM 

Hock Clam Chowdeb 46 

Cmuac Cnnuii 47 

Cheese Cbmustth 47 

Cheese Sandwiches 48 

Cunt and Tomato Rabebxt 48 

Croquettes, Baked 49 

Codfish Balls 49 

Cottaqi Cheese Sausage SO 

Baked Cow Pus 60 

Cow Pcas and Cheese Roll 60 

Baked Homint with Cheese 61 

Hominy and Peanut Buttcb, en Casiebole 61 

Nut and Cheese Loaf 62 

Prajiut Roast 68 

Polenta 62 

Rice and Coin Heal Custard 63 

Salmon Loajt 63 

Lemon Sauce 64 

White Sacce 64 

Casserole or Salmon and Peas 66 

Salmon Soutfle 66 

Baked So* Beans 60 

Tuna Fish Chowdeb. 60 

Tuna Loaf 67 

HEAT EXTENDER DISHES 

Beet Stew 68 

Chaetkeusk or Rice and Heat 69 

RscALLOPED Heat 69 

Meat Tlmbaleb 69 

SnEPHEtos' Pie 69 

Potato Ceust 00 

a few salads 

Cabbage and Cheese Salad 01 

Cabbot Salad I 01 

Cabbot Salad II 01 

OOOOANUT AND CABBAGE SALAD 02 



12 CONTENTS 

FA01 

Bate and Apple Salad ., 62 

Manhattan Salad 62 

Orange and Date Salad 63 

Orange and Pineapple Salad 63 

Lemon Cream Sauce 63 

Pea and Peanut Salad 64 

Pear and Cheese Salad 64 

Spicy Salad Dressing 64 

Porcupine Salad 65 

Raisin and Fruit Salad 65 

String Bean Salad 65 

Tomato Jelly Salad 66 

Tomato Sandwich Salad 66 

Tuna Salad 67 

DRESSINGS FOR SALADS 

Boiled Dressing 68 

Cucumber Dressino 68 

French Dressing 68 

Fruit Salad Dressino 60 

Mayonnaise Dressing 69 

SUGAR-SAVING DESSERTS 

Apple Brown Betty 70 

Apricot Whip 70 

Buckwheat Short Cake 71 

Caramel Custard 71 

Caramel Sauce . 72 

Chocolate Pudding 72 

Chocolate Cornstarch Pudding 73 

Cocoanut Pudding 73 

Date Custard 74 

Date Pudding 74 

Fruit Short Cake 74 

Nut Blanc Mange 75 

Oatmeal Pudding .76 

Prune Puddino I 76 



(XiNTKNTM 13 

Piynit Puwixa II T« 

Haimin Haw TT 

XllW AND t'KACH Mot* TT 

HTHAWniTMt HolL Ti 

Tamoca Cuau TM 

Pmnmn Mahji Cuitaw T9 

PMIIT 1cm , . . T> 

Mai-iji Moum .... It 



HAWKS FOR HKIWKUTH 



AMitirr Havm . 
Ohiwuutr Skwm 



Vanilla Rawr *U 

WMIPPU CRkAU tUWR *> 

PATRIOTIC CAKKH AMI COOK IK* 

NtmM on Carh Marinu 09 

Sn.Miu CAKB * * fl 

•'llUTTCH H CAitH KB 

lUu.KT Pmumi Cam R6 

ItucBWItlUT Eti'ii'n 0*11 "T 

OHXtll.ATR CAKB WITH Cl'MN Ku>u* HT 

flKHHtt.An 1 AIM i'AKP HT 

flIRN MKAL tltmiKH llHKAIt MN 

llhi I'M I ■*( UK 

KmiOXN, Mll.KIK-it, IIHTTMIt FHM t'ARH ■»» 

l**f Cam HI) 

Mai-lk Hyri-p Carr «t 

MtHJMA CARR BO 

M,... ...... ibniwHtp »t> 

Oni Km Carr »l 

O&ANtlB 1.AVKR CARK VI 

Shpkb Coin Carr M 

tUNI.KV NMNDH t'ARH , , M 

WllRATt.RRR ftfH'H i'AKH BR 



14 CONTENTS 

paot 

Bablet Dbop Cakes 03 

Bablet Limon Queens 93 

Bablet Cookies 94 

Coooanut Dbop Cookies 94 

CoooAiiuT Kisses 95 

Cobn Meal Cookies 95 

Date Babs 96 

Honet Cookies 96 

Hebmits 97 

Oatmeal Cookies .97 

Raisin Marguerites 98 

Rolled Oats and Buckwheat Dbop Cookies 98 

FROSTINOS AND FILLINGS 

(Sugar Saving) 

Apple Butteb Filling 99 

Chocolate Filling 99 

Cream Fbuit Filling 99 

Dried Fruit Filling 100 

Fig Filling 100 

Mock "Boiled Fbosting" 100 

Maple Frosting 101 

Mocha Fbosting 101 

Orange Honet Filling 101 

Sugarless Obange Fbosting 102 

PASTRIES AND SUGARLESS FILLINGS 

Cobn Flour Biscuit Crust 103 

Potato Biscuit Crust 103 

Wheatless Pie Crust I 103 

Wheatless Pie Crust II 104 

Chocolate Filling 104 

Meringue 104 

Fbuit Filling 104 

Maple Filling ,. . 105 

Pumpkin Filling ,. . 105 

Sweet Potato Filling 105 

Cottage Cheese Filling 106 



NOTE 

Measurements in all oases mean level measure- 
ments. A tablespoonful or teaspoonful as given 
in a recipe means a spoonful leveled off. When 
flour is measured by cups, the oup is filled with a 
spoon until level full. Unless otherwise stated, 
flour is always measured after sifting onoe. 

You will note in the Yeast Bread recipes that 
wheat flour is usod in almost every case in combi- 
nation with the other flours. It is difficult to make 
a satisfactory bread from a wheat substitute alone. 
The speoial characteristic of the protein of wheat 
flour which makes the dough elastic and light is 
laoking in other kinds of flour. Therefore, it is 
neoessary to use some wheat flour along with the 
substitute flours in order to have a well raised and 
palatable loaf of bread. 

TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS 

t sb teaapoon o*. = ounce 

tb. a* tablespoon apk. = speck 

o, ss cup lb. = pound 

pi bb pint sq. = square 
qt =b quart 

TABLE OF MEASUREMENTS 

8t.=»ltb. 2pt.= lqt 

16tb.«=le. loi.= 2tb. 

2o.»l pi 16o«.= llb, 



the n:\v ,- o?k 

PUBLIC LIBPARY 



Asror*. ll:- o\ 



LIBERTY RECIPES 

YEAST BREADS 

The following Standard Recipe is given for 
the purpose of comparison. It may be taken as 
the foundation recipe in using the substitute 
floors. Li place of part of the wheat flour, as 
used formerly, the following substitutes may be 
used: barley flour, buckwheat flour, corn flour, 
corn meal, potato flour, rice flour, soy bean flour, 
kaferita flour, tapioca or banana flours; as well 
as mashed potatoes or the cooked cereals, as rice, 
oatmeal, hominy grits or corn meal mush. Tn 
most cases, at least one half or two thirds of the 
wheat flour must be used, because it alone contains 
the gluten necessary for making a light, porous 
loaf. 

If you have a good recipe that " works, M use 
it. But if you wish to use substitutes with which 
you are unfamiliar, follow the Standard Recipe 
as a foundation and use the substitutes in the 

17 



18 LIBERTY RECIPES 

proportion mentioned above, and a satisfactory 
bread should result. The fat ingredient may be 
lessened or left out entirely in making yeast 
breads. The sugar (or syrup) may also be left 
out entirely. Almost all breads made with the 
substitute flours are better made up by the straight 
dough process rather than by allowing a sponge 
to rise overnight. This is because fermentation 
sets in sooner in the substitute flours. 

Be sure that you are familiar with the general 
rules for mixing and baking bread. It is just as 
essential to know the method of combining in- 
gredients and the temperatures for the raising 
and baking of bread as it is to know the propor- 
tion of ingredients. 

As substitution for wheat flour is made by 
weight instead of by measure, the following table 
will be found helpful. Each measure given is 
equivalent in weight to 1 cup of wheat flour. 



Barley 1% cups 

Buckwheat % cup 

Corn flour ^ 1 cup (scant) 

Corn meal (coarse) % cup 

Corn meal (fine) 1 cup (scant) 

Cornstarch % cup 



YEAST BREADS 19 

Peanut floor 1 cop (scant) 

Potato floor % cop 

Riee floor % cup 

Rolled oat* 1% cupa 

Rolled oats (ground in meat chopper) . .1% copt 

Soy-bean floor % cop 

Sweet potato floor V/% cops 

STANDARD BREAD RECIPE 

(lLoaf) 

1 e. liquid (water, milk, or 3 c floor 

other liqoid) % to y% cake compressed 
1 t. salt yeast softened in 

1 tb. sogar %, ©• lukewarm liquid 
lth. fat 

Heat the liquid to boiling point. Pour it over 
the fat, salt and sugar. When this mixture is 
lukewarm add to it the yeast softened in the 
water, and one half the flour. Beat thoroughly. 
Then cut in the rest of the flour with a case knife. 
When the dough becomes too stiff to stir, work in 
the remainder of the flour by kneading with the 
hands. It may take a little more flour or a little 
less depending upon the kind of flour used. The 
dough should be of such a consistency that it will 
not stick to the hands or to the bowl. Knead 
10 or 15 minutes until the dough is smooth and 



20 LIBERTY RECIPES 

elastic. Place in a bowl, cover, and keep it in a 
warm temperature (75° to 85° F.). When risen 
twice its bulk, cut down and knead again. Then 
shape into loaves, place in greased pans and set 
in a warm place. When light and doubled in 
bulk it is ready to bake. To prevents crust from 
forming over the top of the loaf while rising, rub 
the surface with a little melted fat. Watch the 
rising and put into the oven at the proper time. 
If risen too long, it will make a loaf full of holes ; 
if not risen enough, it will make a heavy bread. 

Bake 45 minutes to 1 hour in a moderately hot 
oven (375°-400° F.). If oven is too hot, the crust 
will brown before the heat has reached the center 
of the loaf and will prevent further rising. The 
loaf should raise well during the first 15 minutes 
of baking; then it should begin to brown, and 
continue browning for the next 15 or 20 minutes. 
The last 15 to 30 minutes, it should finish baking 
and the heat may be reduced. When done, the 
bread will not cling to the sides of the pan. If a 
tender crust is desired, brush the bread over with 
a little melted fat as soon as it is taken from the 
oven. 



YEAST BREADS 21 

When bread is allowed to rue overnight, use the 
smaller quantity of yeast Bread mixed and 
baked during: the day requires a larger quantity 
of yeast. Sometimes as much as 1 yeast cake to 1 
pint of liquid is used. If the large quantity of 
yeast is used, the dough should be watched during 
rising, and cut down as soon as the mixture 
doubles its hulk. If care is taken, the bread will 
be most satisfactory and well flavored and will not 
taste "yeasty." 

BAILEY BBEAB I 
1 qt. potato water '/a cake compressed yeast 

y% c mashed potato 2 c. barley flour 

3 tb. glucose or mnlnmrin Enough white flour to make 

1 tb. melted fat a soft dough 

lttdt, 

Make a sponge of the potato water, mashed po- 
tato, syrup, salt, fat, yeast, barley floor and about 
I c of the wheat flour. Allow to stand overnight. 
Add remainder of wheat floor to make a soft 
dough. When doubled in bulk cot down and allow 
to rise a second time. Form into loavea. When 
doubled in bulk, bake for 45 minutes to 1 hour. 



22 LIKKIiTV HKdlVttH 

BABIZT BEEAD II 

1 pt, milk (jt milk m4 w«i*r % *, torn m#tl or com flmtr 

2 t, »ftJt 4 «, wh«*t flwsr 

2 tb, «rsm *j?t!p */i «ompr«i*#d y*a*t e*k# 

1 tb, t*t notUtmA in 

2 #, tarty flottr % «, ltsk#wflrm wator 

Hoat the liquid. Pour over the *alt, corn *yrup, 
and fat. Whan lukewarm add tho ytmnt noftenod 
In this water, Mix th« flour*. Add 2 cup* to 
abovi* mixture to maki* a *ponff<;. Whan ri*<m 
until light and spongy, add remainder of flour. 
Mow flour may b<? muuhul to mako a *oft dough, 
f f ao, u*o whwit flour, Krwad and w\um doubled 
in bulk, krmad again; turn into loaf pan*. When 
again light, bak<$ 45 minutft* to 1 hour in a mod- 
«rato own, 

BIAVMUEAD 

1 «, milk 8 tb, fiwtaiMrt 

% <?, It)k*wftrrn wfttor I «# trfaftt fl/mr 

1 <$*k# w/mpr««*Ml y<mt tirm a* tumlmi hit ft mrtt 

2 tb, f*t clmigb 
V% t, nnit 

fteald milk; pour over th* fat, wait and mola****. 
When lukowarm, add ytmnt, which ban bwm rnixwl 
with tho lukowarm wator; add /lour arid bran an 



YKAHT lillKAIi.H 23 

needed to make a soft dough. Let it stand with- 
out kneading until light} cut down and turn into 
an ordinary bread pan. When nearly doubled in 
bulk, bake 1 hour 

BVOKWKIAT BREAD 

1 e, batkwtoftt flour V/% o. lukewarm wafer 
3 6. wheat flour l 1 /i o. milk 

y% oak* ypaat 2 tb. molaaaea 

1 t, Mii 2 tb, rut 

Add warm water to thn ywiHt. Hcald tho milk 
and pour it over the fat and Halt. When lukewarm 
add the niolaflaoa and ywint diwHolvwl in tho wator. 
Bent In the flour nlowly mid let r'me. When 
doubled in bulk cut down mid put in a wftll-grctiHcd 
pan. When doubled in bulk hake 1 hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

CORN FLOUE BREAD 

2 o. water or water and milk 2 tb. fat 

2 t. aalt 2 c. corn flour 

2 tb. augar 4 to 5 «. wh<<at flour 

Follow dirootioiiH given in the Standard Broad 
recipe. 



24 LIBEETY EECIPES 

CORN HEAL TEAST BREAD 

1% c. milk or milk and water 2y 8 c. wheat flour 

1 tb. sugar 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 tb. fat softened in 

1 t. salt % c. lukewarm water 

% c. corn meal 

Mix corn meal with just enough cold water to 
dampen. Pour over it the scalded milk, stirring 
constantly. Let cook in a double boiler for 15 min- 
utes. Add sugar, salt and fat. Let the mixture 
cool, then add the moistened yeast cake and the 
flour. The dough will be quite stiff, but work in 
all the flour called for in recipe. Let rise and pro- 
ceed as in wheat bread. 

MOCK "GRAHAM" BREAD 

1 c. bran 2 tb. molasses 

1 c. corn meal 2 tb. fat 

1 c. barley flour 1 t. salt 

3 c. wheat flour 1 yeast cake softened in 

1 pt. liquid % c. lukewarm water 

Follow the general rules for mixing, as given in 
the Standard Bread recipe, combining the bran 
and corn meal with the sifted barley and wheat 
flours. A little more wheat flour may be needed to 
make a dough stiff enough to handle. 



YEAST 


HKKADS Itt 


HOMDrr BKEAD 


2}4 a. eookvd hominy (put 


6 to 8 o, wheat flour 


through potato ruwr) 


1 lb. aalt 


or 2»4 c hominy grit* 


1 tb. augar 


(oooktd) 


1 tb. fut 


2 medium aia*d potatom, 


1 yoaat aaka aoflentd in 


maahad. 


Vi e. lukewarm watar 



Add enough lukewarm water to the hominy and 
mashed potatoes to make a quart measure full. 
Add the softened yeast cake, salt, sugar and fat 
Use enough wheat flour to make a sponge. After 
rising, add enough flour to knead. After knead- 
ing 10 or 15 minutes, let rise again. Knead and 
make into loaves. This recipe makes 3 loaves of 
bread. 

OATMEAL BREAD I 

1 & milk and water 1 <\ rolled oata 

1*4 t aalt 2Vj <\ wlwat (lour 

1 tb. fat Vj enko yenat 

2 tb. moU«k* 3 tb. lukewarm watar 

Scald the liquid and pour it over the ground 
rolled oats, molasses, salt and fat. Let stand until 
lukewarm. Add yeast softened in the warm 
water. Add flour and knead. Let rise until dou- 
bled in bulk. Knead again and place in pan. 
Bake in moderate. oven 45 minutes to 1 hour. 



26 LIBERTY RECIPES 

OATMEAL BREAD H 

1 pt. rolled oats 1 t. salt 

Pour 1 quart boiling water on above ingredients 
and let stand until lukewarm. Then add 

% yeast cake, softened, in % c. molasses (or less) 
2 tb. lukewarm water 2 qts. wheat flour 

Let rise several hours. Cut down with a knife 
and beat well. Put in pans and when well raised 
bake carefully in a hot oven for 45 minutes. (This 
mixture is not stiff enough to knead.) 

POTATO BREAD I 

2 x /2 c. liquid 4 to 6 c. wheat flour 

2 tb. sugar 1 cake compressed yeast 
2 t. salt softened in 

1 tb. fat *4 c. lukewarm water 

2 c. mash'ed potatoes 

Use the potato water for the liquid. Pour it 
gradually over the hot mashed potatoes. When 
lukewarm add the softened yeast, salt, sugar and 
fat. Add the flour and proceed as in the Standard 
Bread recipe. 

POTATO FLOTTB BREAD 

2 c. liquid 2 c. potato flour 

2 t. salt 5% c. wheat flour 

2 tb. sugar 1 yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tb. fat % <*. lukewarm water 



YEAST BREADS 27 

Follow the general directions given in the recipe 
for Standard Bread 

POTATO BEEAD H 

% c. milk or milk and water 1 t salt 

1 c. maahed potatoes 1 t. sugar 

1 c. wheat flour % to y% yeast cake 

1 c. rye flour 

Heat the liquid and when lukewarm add the 
yeast and dissolve. Mash boiled or baked pota- 
toes. Make a sponge of the milk, yeast, salt, 
sugar, potatoes and V$ of the mixed flours. Beat 
well and let stand to rise. Add remainder of flour 
and let rise again. Knead. Make into a loaf. 
Let rise and bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 
If potatoes are not mealy more flour may be 
needed 

SWEET POTATO BREAD 

2 & mashed sweet potatoes, 1 tb. fat (if desired.) 

(about 5 potatoes of 1 tb. sugar 

medium size.) % c. lukewarm water 

6 e. wheat flour 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 t. salt 2 c. liquid 

Proceed as in Potato Bread I recipe. 

QUICK TEA SOILS 

% c. scalded milk 2 c. wheat flour 

% e. lukewarm water 1 c. corn flour 

1 tb. sugar % t. salt 

2 tb. fat 1 cake compressed yeast 



28 LIBERTY RECIPES 

Pour the hot milk over the fat and sugar and 
salt. Dissolve yeast in the lukewarm water. 
When the first mixture is lukewarm, combine mix- 
tures, add half the flour, and beat until very 
smooth. Add remainder of the flour and knead 
thoroughly; roll to % inch in thickness, and cut 
with a 2-inch biscuit cutter. "Butter" slightly 
one-half of the biscuit, crease and fold over as 
for Parker House rolls. Let rise for about 2 
hours in a warm place and bake 15 to 20 minutes 
in a moderately hot oven. This recipe makes 2 
dozen rolls. 

BABLET PABKEB HOUSE BOLLS 

1 c. milk % c. fat 

1 c. water 1 t. salt 

% c. lukewarm water 1 tb. sugar 

1 cake compressed yeast 3 c. wheat flour 

3 c. barley flour 

Heat the milk and water and when lukewarm 
pour over the dissolved yeast cake. Mix thor- 
oughly, then cover and let stand until it becomes 
light. Then add the salt, sugar, fat and wheat 
flour to make a dough. Knead well until very 



YKAST BRKAOS 29 

smooth and elastic* Thou place in bowl and let 
rise until doubled in bulk. Handling as little as 
possible, turn onto a lightly floured board and roll 
to half an inch in thickness. Cut into rounds, 
crease in the middle with the handle of a knife, 
brush one-half with melted fat, and fold over. Set 
close together in a baking pan and when again 
light bake 25 or 30 minutes. 

00BH FLOim BOLLS 

% e. Maided milk 1 egg, well beaten 

2 tb. sugar 2 tb. molted fat 

% t. salt Few gratings lemon rind 

% cake eompressed yeast Ms c corn flour 

dissolved in Wheat flour 
2 tb. lukewarm water 

Pour the milk over the sugar and salt; when 
lukewarm add the dissolved yeast and % cup wheat 
flour. Cover; and when light add the fat, egg and 
grated lemon rind, and corn flour. If moro flour 
is needed to make a dough, use wheat flour. Let 
rise again, roll to one-half inch thickness, cut in 
rounds and placo in a well-greased pan to rise. 
When light, bake. This recipe makes 12 rolls. 



FIFTY.FIFTY YEAST BBBAD8 

BAILEY B1EAD 

y% : liquid y% «*k# mmprmmd y***t 

1 iM, tyrup tmMmmi iu 

It, tvX 2 tb, \u\umwnu water 

1 «, barley 1 1. mdt 

% 0, mmAwd potato IV* *> wttiftt tfour 

Pour the hot liquid over th^ fat, *alt, and ayrup, 
When lukewarm, add the moiatened yeaat. Then 
add the maahed potato and flour, Proceed a* in 
the standard iiecipe for ymnt brutal*. 

00ft* ILOTT* MEAD 

% «/ Ity«i4 1 I, *aJt 

1 tb, nyrup % *, nmtmd potato 

1 1, fat 1 <*. mm fhur 

y% Hk§ mmprmmi ytmd V/% e# wheat fitmr 

Follow direction* iflven in ttarley Bread recipe 
above, 

atOVVD BOILED OATf BEEAD 

% *, U«tii4 1 1, mil 

1 tb, nyrup V/% *. wheat (four 

It tut I «, wmtiA eetmaal 

y% eeke vtmprmmA ytmrt % *, mmftwA potato 

Follow direction* given in Barley Bread recipe, 

10 



FIFTY-FIFTY YEAST BREADS 31 

BICE FLOim BREAD 

y% c liquid 1 1. salt 

I tb. syrup % c. mashed potato 

I I fat 1% c. wheat flour 
% cake compressed yeast 1 c rice flour 

Follow directions given in Barley Bread recipe. 

SICE BBEAD 

4 e, boiled rioe (soft) 1% e. hot liquid (potato 

1 c. mashed potatoes water) 

6 or 6 e. wheat flour 1% t. salt 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 tb. syrup 

2 t fat 

Mix the rice and potatoes and add to the liquid 
which has been poured over the salt, syrup and 
fat. Add the moistened yeast cake and proceed 
as in the Standard Bread recipe. 



QUICK BEEADS 

In making Quick Breads a larger substitution 
for wheat flour may be made than in Yeast Breads. 
A safe proportion is " fifty-fifty * ' (half wheat and 
half a substitute flour), but in many oases from 
seventy to one hundred per cent substitutes may 
be used. The most satisfactory substitute flours 
for quick breads are corn, barley, oats, rice, and 
buckwheat. These work out well in the making of 
not only biscuits, muffins and other hot breads but 
also cakes and cookies. 

Use the substitutes available in your locality, 
choosing from these types : 



FLOURS 


MEALS 


CEREALS 


Barley 


Corn 


Hominy Grits 


Buckwheat 


Feterita 


Rice 


Corn 


Kafir corn 


Rolled Oats 


Oats 


Oatmeal 




Potato 






Rice 







As stated above, the flours and meals may be 

32 



THK KLW "vil'K 

PUBLIC l.IBi-ARY 



ASTOH. IJ'NOX 
TILDl-N I -pUt:UA 'VIPN' 



QUTCK BREADS 33 

used in the proportion of fifty-fifty, or in some 
oases, seventy-fivo to one hundred per cent in 
substituting. The following table offers sugges- 
tions for use of the cooked cereals and potatoes in 
biscuit making : 

PROPORTIONS OF INGREDIENTS 

Hominy grita . . . V/2 c. None 2 0. 6 1. 3 tb. It 

Rice lc. 3tb. 2o. 6t. 3tb. It. 

Rolled oats 1# e. None 2 0. 6 1. 3 tb. It. 

Mashed potatoes 1% e. None 2c. 6t. 3tb. It. 

The first two recipes below are given as founda- 
tion recipes for biscuits and muffins. Recipes 
which follow show combinations of flours and 
meals which have proved satisfactory. Other 
substitutions may be made, however, using the 
foundation recipes as guides. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

(Standard Recipe) 
2 e. floor 2 tb. fat 

1 t. salt Enough milk or water to 

4 t. baking power make a soft dough 

Sift and mix the dry ingredients. Cut in the 
fat, using one or two case knives. Add the liquid 
gradually until a dough is formed. Toss out onto 



34 LIBEETY EECIPES 

a floured board Boll to one-half inch thickness ; 
cut in rounds and bake 10 to 15 minutes in a hot 
oven. 

MUFFINS 

(Standard Recipe) 

2 e. flour 2 tb. fat 

1 c. milk 2 tb. corn syrup (may omit) 

1 egg % t. salt 

3 t. baking powder 

Mix and sift all dry ingredients. Beat the egg, 
add to the milk. Combine mixtures. Beat thor- 
oughly. Add melted fat last. Bake in muffin 
pans in a moderately hot oven 25 to 35 minutes. 

BARLEY BISCUITS 

iy 2 c. barley flour 2 tb. fat 

% c. wheat flour Milk or water to make a soft 

1 t. salt dough 

3% t. baking powder 

Mix according to general rule for baking pow- 
der biscuits. Bake in a hot oven 10 or 15 minutes. 

BARLEY SCONES 

1 c. barley flour 4 tb. fat 

1 c. wheat flour 1 egg 

4 t. baking powder % c. milk 
y 2 t. salt 

Cut the fat into the flour to which has been added 
the baking powder and salt. Beat the egg and % 



QUICK BHNADS 35 

onp of milk together. Add gradually to the first 
mixture. Add more milk if required to make a 
soft dough. Toss on a floured board, pat, roll out 
to %-inoh thickness. Cut in diamond shape and 
bake for 15 minutes in a hot oven. Break open, 
spread with jolly or marmalade and serve. 

BEAN OEMS 

1 0. bran 1% t. salt 

y% c barley flour 1 tb. sugar 

y% 0. wheat flour 1 tb. fat 

3 t. baking powder 1 e. milk 

Mix dry ingredients, and add milk and melted 
fat. Mix thoroughly. Buko in a moderately hot 
oven. 

BUCKWHEAT BISCUITS 

lVa 0. buckwheat flour 3Vi t. baking powder 

l /i e. wheat flour 2 tb. fat 

1 t ialt Milk or water to make dough 

Mix as for baking powder biscuits. Bake in hot 
ovon for 10 or 15 minutos. 

BUCKWHEAT MUFFINS 

1 pt. buckwheat flour 1 tb. fat 

% pt. wheat flour 4 t. baking powder 

2 t ialt 1 pt. milk 

Make a smooth batter by adding the milk gradu- 



36 LIBERTY RECIPES 

ally to the sifted dry ingredients. Add melted fat 
last* Bake in muffin tins for 25 minutes in a hot 
oven. 

COBH FLOUR MTOTINS 

1/4 e. fat % o. miik 

3 tb. sugar % 0. wheat flour 

1 egg IV2 c. com flour 

Vi t. salt 4 t. baking powder 

Cream the fat. Add the sugar and egg well 
beaten together. Add the sifted dry ingredients 
to the first mixture alternately with the milk. 
Bake in well-greased muffin tins for 25 or 30 min- 
utes. 

CORN HEAL BROWN BREAD 

1 c. corn meal IV2 t. soda 

1 c. rye meal % c. molasses 

1 c. barley flour 2 c. sour milk 

1 t. salt 

Sift dry ingredients together. Add molasses 

and milk. Mix thoroughly and steam 3% hours in 
well-greased and covered molds. Remove covers 
and bake bread long enough to dry the top. 

WHEATLESS CORN BREAD 

2 e. corn meal IV2 t. salt 
2 0. sour milk 2 eggs 

J tb. fat 1 1. soda 

1 tb. sugar 



QUICK BUKADS 37 

Mix all dry ingredients including soda. Add to 
the sour milk and well-beaten eggs. Add melted 
fat last. Bake in a shallow pan 30 minutes. 

CORN MEAL MUPPIHS 
1 e. milk or water 1 egg 

Vfe o. flour 4 t. baking powder 

IVi o. corn meal % t. salt 

1 tb. fat 

Add dry ingredients to the milk and egg t then 
add molted fat. Mix well and bake in greased 
muffin pans about 30 minutes. 

SPOON CORN BREAD 

1 o. milk 1 tb. fat 

1 o. white corn meal 2 eggs 

2 e. water 2 t. salt 

Mix water and corn meal ; bring slowly to boil- 
ing point and cook 6 minutes. Add eggs, well 
beaten, and other ingredionts. Beat thoroughly, 
bake in well-greased pan 25 minutes in hot oven. 
Sorvo from the same dish witli a spoon. 

CORN PONE 
2 c. white corn meal IVi e. lour milk 

1 1. salt 2 tb. melted fat 

% t. soda 

Sift meal, salt, and soda together, stir in the 
sour milk; add the melted fat and beat until 



38 LIBERTY EECIPES 

smooth. With hands wet in cold water, shape the 
mixture into small pones. Grease a griddle or 
pan with melted fat, and when smoking hot, place 
the pones on it. Bake in a moderately hot oven 
until thoroughly done and brown. 

CORN HEAL BSEAD STICKS 

V/z e. corn meal 1% tb. sugar 

% e. wheat floor 2 tb. fat 

3 t. baking powder 1 egg 

y 2 t salt Scant y 2 c milk 

Chop the fat into the meal and flour to which 
have been added the dry ingredients. Beat the 
egg, add to the milk and combine mixtures. Mix 
to a dough, pat out on a board, roll lightly to 
%-inch thickness. Cut in %-inch strips. Bake in 
a moderate oven about 20 minutes. 

egoless jomnnr cake 

3 e. corn meal % e. water 

1 e. bread floor % t. salt 

2 tb. baking powder 1 tb. fat 
1 c. milk 



together the dry ingredients, stir in liquid 
and melted fat. Bake in a well-oiled pan. If de- 
sired, 134 c. chopped sweet apples may be stirred 
into the mixture. Cold, crumbled and served with 
milk, this makes an excellent supper for children* 



QUICK BREADS 39 

EGOLESS XUFFHB 

V% e. wheat floor % t salt 

% c earn meal 2 t melted fat 

3 t baking powder % c milk 

2 t sugar (or Done) 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk and 
melted fat. Mix thoroughly. Bake in greased 
muffin pans for 20 minutes. This recipe makes 6 
muffins. 

EXEB&EECY BISCUITS 

% e, wheat floor 1 e. thick aoor milk 

1 e. corn floor % t. salt 

% e. barley floor V 2 t soda 
2tb. fat 

Follow general rule for mixing baking powder 
biscuits given in the Standard Recipe. Drop from 
a spoon into a well-greased baking pan and bake 
in a hot oven 15 minutes. 

BUT BEEAD. 

V/z e, corn floor % e. corn syrup 

lVi e. 50-50 floor V% e. sugar 

3 t baking powder 1 1 salt 

% *» chopped outs 1 egg beaten well 

1 c milk (minus 2 tb.) 

Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder. 
Add nut meats, egg beaten until light, corn syrup 
and the milk. Mix to a batter. Turn into greased 



40 L1BKKTY RECIPES 

briok-loaf bread pan, lot stand for 15 minutes; 
bake for 45 minute*. Graham flour may be *ub- 
itituted for 50-50 flour. 

OATMEAL COFFEE OAKS 

IVi o. oatmeal 1 egg 

1 o. barley flour 1 o. tuilk or water 
8 t. baking powder % a. raieiue 

8 tb. sugar 1 /y t. salt 

2 tb. f at 

Grind oatmeal in a meat grinder. Cream the 
fat and sugar. Add egg, milk, dry ingredient* 
mixed together, and last the raisin* floured. Bake 
in shallow pan 20 minutes, in a moderate oven. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS I 
l 1 /a o. cooked oatmeal 1 o, milk 

2 a. wheat flour iVa tb. fat 

1 tb. sugar or molasses 1 egg 

6 t. baking powder 1 1. salt 

Mix all dry ingredient*. Add the egg and 
molasses to the oatmeal. Then add the milk al- 
ternately with the dry ingredient*. Bake for 30 
or 85 minute* in muffin tin*. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS II 
% o. uncooked oatmeal 4 t. baking powder 

lVa o. wheat flour 2 tb. melted fat 

1 o. scalded milk 2 tb. sugar or molasses 

Isgg 



QUICK BREADS 41 

Pour the hot milk over the oatmeal. Lot stand 
until cool, then acid the well beaten egg, and 
dry ingredients mixed together. Add last the 
melted fat. Bake in greased muffin pans 25 to 36 
minutes. 

POTATO CORH HEAL XV7TXHI 

1 e. miuihed potatoes 1 t. mlt 

Vi «• corn meal 4 t. baking powdar 

Vfc o. wheat flour 1 egg 

2 tb. augar 1 o, milk 
1 tb. molted f»t 

Combine the dry ingredients. Mix the egg and 
milk with the mashed potatoes. Combine the two 
mixtures and add the melted fat Bake for 30 
minutes in a hot oven. 

POTATO BI8CTTIT8 

I & barley flour I t. suit 

1 e. wheat flour 2 tb. fat 

1 a. maohed potatoe* % & milk 
4 t. baking powder 

Sift the dry ingredients. Put oooked potatoes 
through ricer or mash thoroughly. Cut the fat 
into the dry ingredients, then add the potatoes and 
milk. Less milk may be needed to make a soft 
dough. Pat out on a floured board to %-inoh 
thickness. Bake 15 minutes in a hot oven. 



42 LIBERTY EECIPES 

EYE AND BICE MUFFINS 
1 c. rye flour 1 tb. fat 

1 c. rice flour % t. salt 

1 tb. sugar 1 egg 

1 e. milk 4 t. baking powder 

Mix and sift the flour, salt, baking powder and 
sugar. Beat together the egg, milk and melted 
fat. Add about half of the liquid to the dry in- 
gredients and mix carefully without beating. 
Then add remainder of liquid and mix thoroughly, 
but do not beat. Bake in a moderate oven about 
30 minutes 

SCOTCH SOUP STICKS 

1 c. ground rolled oats 1 t. baking powder 

% c. barley flour Enough cold water to make 

% t. salt a dough 

Mix ingredients in order given. Pat out on a 
floured board to %-inch thickness. Cut in narrow 
strips and bake to a light brown in a hot oven. 
If desired, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar may be added 
to the mixture. 



WHEATLESS BISCUITS AND MUFFINS 

BABLEY-OATXEAL BISCUIT 

V/i e. ground oatmeal 2 tb. fat 

y% c. barley floor Milk or water to make a 

3 t baking powder soft dough 

y% Lsalt 

Grind the oatmeal in a meat grinder. Mix the 
ground oatmeal and flour. Proceed as in baking 
powder biscuit recipe. 

BISCUIT 



4 e. barley flour 6 t. baking powder 

3 tb. fat 1 t. salt 

Milk or water 

Follow directions for mixing baking powder bis- 
cuits. 

BUCXWHEAT-COBH FLOUB BISCUIT 

1% e. buckwheat 5 t baking powder 

IVi e. corn flour 1 1. salt 

3 tb. fat Milk or water 

Follow directions for mixing baking powder bis- 
cuits. 

COBB FLOUB BISCUIT 

2 e. corn flour 4 t baking powder 

3 tb. fat 1 1 salt 

Milk or water 
43 



44 LIBERTY RECIPES 

Follow directions for mixing baking powder bis- 
cuits. 

COBN FLOUBr-BOLLED OATS BISCUIT 

V/2 c. corn flour 5 t. baking powder 

1 c. ground oats 1 t. salt 

3 tb. fat Milk or water 

Follow directions for mixing baking powder bis- 
cuits. 

BICE AND BABLET FLOUB MUFFINS 

1 c. milk 4 t. baking powder 

1 tb. fat 1 t. salt 

2 tb. syrup % c. rice flour 

2 eggs 1% c. barley flour 

Follow general role for mixing Muffins as given 
in Standard recipe. 

BICE AND OBOUND OATS MUFFINS 
1 c. milk 4 t. baking powder 

1 tb. fat 1 1. salt 

2 tb. syrup 1 c. rice flour 

2 eggs 1 c. ground rolled oats 

Follow general rule for mixing Muffins as given 
in Standard recipe. 

OATMEAL AND COBN FLOUB MUFFINS 
1 c. liquid 4 t. baking powder 

1 tb. fat 1 1. salt 

2 tb. syrup % c. ground oatmeal 
2 eggs 1% c. corn flour 



WHEATLESS BISCUITS 45 

Follow general rulo for mixing Muffins as givon 
in Standard recipe. 

BAELEY AND CORN FLOTTB MUFFINS 

V/g o. liquid 4 t. baking powder 

1 tb. fat 1 1. salt 

2 tb. syrup IVi c corn flour 

2 eggs 1V4 e. barley flour 

Follow general rule for mixing Muffins as given 
in Standard recipe. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTE DISHES 

BEAN LOAF WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

2 c. cooked beans % t. salt 

1 egg Pepper 

2 tb. melted fat 

Mash the beans. Add other ingredients and 

mix well. Turn into a greased bread pan and bake 

by placing the pan in another pan of hot water. 

Bake for 35 or 40 minutes. Serve with Tomato 
Sauce. Peas may be used instead of beans. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

1 e. strained tomato juice % t. salt 

1 tb. cornstarch % t. pepper 

Add 1 tb. chopped onion if desired 

Moisten the cornstarch with a small portion of 
the cold tomato juice and mix well. Add rest of 
the juice and seasonings. Cook well, and when 
thickened, serve. 

MOCK CLAM CHOWDEE 

2 c. potatoes, cut in dice 1 small onion 

2 c. corn (1 can) IV2 t. salt 

1 pt. boiling water % t. pepper 

1 pt. hot milk % t. paprika 

2 tb. fat 

46 



THE r!L'.V "■;! i< 

PUBLIC LIBKARY 



ASTOR, LENOX 
LDKN FOUNDATIONS 



if^MhJBKJhfe 



MEAT SUBSTITUTE DISHES 47 

Cook the chopped onion and fat for about 5 min- 
utes in the kettle in which the chowder is to be 
made. Add the potatoes, corn and boiling water. 
Cook. When the potatoes are done, add the sea- 
sonings and milk. Then bind with 1 tb. flour and 
1 tb. butter substitute well blended. Cook for 2 
or 3 minutes. This may bo served as the substan- 
tial dish at 'dinner, in plaoe of meat. 

CHEESE CUSTARD 

Bread (% small loaf) % t. salt 

1 o. cheese Spk. paprika or cayenne 

1 pt. milk 2 eggs 

Oreaso baking dish, put in a layer of broad out 
in pieoes one inch square. Sprinkle thin slices of 
cheese over the bread and season. Repeat Beat 
eggs slightly; add the milk and pour this mixture 
over the layers of bread and oheese. Bake % hour 
in a moderate oven. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

8 tb. fat 1 o. American oheeae cut in 

2% tb. cornstarch small pieces 

% o. milk or chicken stock % o. grated Parmesan 

2 egg yolks cheese 
Vi t. salt Paprika 

Make white sauoe of the fat, cornstarch, season- 
ings and liquid; add the beaten yolks, grated 



48 LIBERTY RECIPES 

cheese and when mixed well add the oheese. Turn 
in dish to oool. Shape in balls or cylinders, dip in 
egg whites beaten slightly, to which 1 tb. water is 
added, and then in bread crumbs ; brown in a shal- 
low greased baking pan in the oven; drain on 
paper, garnish and serve with salad or crackers. 



OHEESE SANDWICHES 

1 c. oheese 2 tb. milk 

1 egg yolk Seasonings 

Bread (1 small loaf) 

Put soft oheese through a potato ricer or ohop 
fine and add egg yolk, milk and seasonings. 
Spread between thin shoes of bread, pressing well 
together, then out in strips. Beat the white of egg 
with % o. milk, dip sandwiohes in this; drain and 
sauto in a hot frying pan. 



OHEESE AND TOMATO EAEEBIT 

2 tb. fat (may omit) Seasonings: 

1% tb. cornstarch salt to taste 

1 o. milk dash paprika 

Make above ingredients into a white sauoe. 
Add slowly 1 o. thiok tomato juioe. Add 1% o. 



MKAT SUIISTITUTK D1SUKS 49 

cheese (American or Cottage). Stir and boat in a 
double boilor until thick, Sorvo on crackers, 

CBOQUETTES, BAKED 

9 c btana 1 egg 

8 tb. fat S*aaomnga 

1 e. bread eruniba 

Mash the cooked beans. Add other ingredients. 
Make into croquettes ; brown well in a greased pan 
in the baking or broiling oven. Serve with a 
white saucey to which chopped parsley has boon 
added. 

CODFISH BALLS 

1 cu salt todflsh 1 cm 

4 ainall potatoes \$ tb. fat 

tt t popper 

Wash the ftsh in water. Tear in small shreds. 
Wash, pare and out potatoes in large cubes. Cook 
tho ftsh and potatoes together in gently boiling 
water, without salt, until potatoes are soft. Drain 
and shako over fire until dry ; mash and add beaten 
egg, fat and seasonings. When well beaten, take 
up by spoonfuls, mold and drop onto a well- 
greased pan. Brown in a hot oven. Garnish and 
serve while hot. 



50 LIBERTY EECIPES 

COTTAGE CHEESE SAUSAGE 

1 c. cottage cheese 1 t. salt 

1 c. dry bread crumbs % t. white pepper 
% c. chopped peanuts % t. soda 

% c. peanut butter 1 tb. chopped onion 

V2 t. powdered sage 
% t. powdered thyme 

Mix together the bread crumbs and all dry in- 
gredients. Combine the peanut butter, onion, 
cheese and mix with the bread crumbs. Shape 
into flat cakes, roll lightly in corn meal or crumbs 
and brown to a delicate shade in greased shallow 
pan in a hot oven. Garnish and serve hot. 

BAKED COW PEAS 

% c. dried cow peas V& c. bread crumbs 

2 c. boiled rice 1 onion, chopped 
2 c. stewed tomatoes Salt and pepper 

Cook the peas (should make 2c). Place the 
peas, rice, tomatoes and onion in layers in a 
greased baking dish. Season with salt and pep- 
per, and cover with the bread crumbs. Bake until 
brown. 

COW PEAS AND CHEESE BOLL 

2 c. cooked cow peas 1 tb. finely chopped sweet 

% c. grated cheese green pepper or celery 

1 tb. batter substitute % c. bread crumbs 

1 tb. finely chopped onion 



MEAT SUBSTITUTE DISHES 51 

Press the peas through a sieve to remove th( 
skins, and mix with the bread crumbs and cheese 
Cook the onion and pepper or celery in the fat 
being careful not to brown, and add them to th( 
peas and cheese mixture. Form the mixture intc 
a roll, place in a greased pan and bake in a mod 
erate oven until brown, basting occasionally 
Serve hot or cold like a meat roll. 

BAKES HOMINY WITH CHEESE 

2 o. hominy 1 t. salt 

% e. milk % o. bread crumb* 

% o. cheese 

Put cooked hominy in a greased baking dish 
with alternate layers of grated cheese, seasoned 
Pour milk over the cheese and hominy, cover, and 
bake slowly 20 minutes. Cover with bread crumbs 
and brown. 

HOMINY AND PEANUT IUTTEK EN GASSEBOLE 

2 c. hominy 1 t. salt 

% c. milk % c. bread crumbs 

4 tb. peanut butter 

Put the cooked hominy in a greased baking dish 
Heat milk in double boiler ; add gradually to pea* 
nut butter. Pour over hominy, cover and bake 



\ 



52 LIBERTY EECIPES 

slowly 40 minutes. Cover with bread crumbs and 
brown, 

NUT AND CHEESE LOAF 

1 c. grated cheese 1 t. salt 

1 c. English walnut or hick- % t. pepper 

ory nut meats 2 tb. onion 

1 c dry bread crumbs 1 tb. fat 
1 c. liquid (milk or water) 

Cook the onion in the fat until tender. Strain 
into the mixture of crumbs, cheese and chopped 
nuts. Add liquid and seasonings. Mix thor- 
oughly. Place in a greased loaf pan and bake un- 
til brown. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

PEANUT EOAST 

% c. uncooked rice % c. milk 

1 c. chopped peanuts, or 1 egg 

% <*• peanut butter Seasonings 

Cook the rice. When cool add other ingredients 
and mix well Bake in a well-greased loaf pan 
about 30 minutes in a hot oven. Serve with To- 
mato Sauce. 

POLENTA 

% c. corn meal % t. salt 

3 c. water 

Boil the corn meal in the boiling salted water for 



MEAT SUBSTITUTE DISHES 52 

one-half hour, over a direct flame, or in a double 
boiler from 3 to 5 hours. 

1 c grated cheese 1 t. salt, paprika 

Place the corn meal in a greased baking dish 
with alternate layers of cheese seasoned with the 
salt and paprika. Bake in a slow oven 15 or 2C 
minutes until heated through and the cheese 
melted. 



SICE AVB CORK HEAL CUSTAKD 

% c. rice 2 eggs 

V2 c. white corn meal 2 tb. butter substitute 

3 c. milk or milk and water 1 t. salt 
mixed 

Mix the rice, meal, and salt with the milk in the 
top of a double boiler, and cook until the rice h 
nearly soft. Add the butter ' substitute and t 
eggs well beaten and transfer to a greased baking 
pan. Bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Serve 
in the dish in which it is baked. 

SALMON LOAF 

2 c. salmon V2 t. Bait 

1 c. bread crumbs Pepper 

2 eggs 

Remove the skin and bones from the can of sal- 



54 LIBERTY RECIPES 

mon and chop the fish fine. Beat the eggs well and 
add to them the bread crumbs and seasonings. 
Combine with the salmon. Mix all ingredients 
well and bake for 45 minutes in a moderately hot 
oven in a well-greased loaf pan. This loaf may be 
served with Lemon Sauce, or a plain white sauce 
to which has been added 2 tb. tomato catsup. 

LEMON SAUCE 

2 tb. flour, or 1 tb. corn- % t. pepper 

starch 1 t. lemon juice 

1 tb. butter substitute 1 c. boiling water 
V2 t. salt 

Melt the fat, add the flour and seasonings. 
When well mixed add gradually the water and stir 
until the boiling point is reached. Add the lemon 
juice and serve. 

WHITE SAUCE 

1 c. milk % t. salt 

y 2 to 1 tb. cornstarch Dash white pepper 

1 tb. fat 

Melt the fat, add the cornstarch to which has 
been added the seasonings. Mix until smooth and 
cook 2 minutes. Then add the milk gradually and 
stir until thickened and the cornstarch is cooked. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTE DISHES 

CAS8EB0LE OF 8ALM0V AMD PEAS 

2 c. salmon 2 c. white sauce 

2 e. pea* 

Make a white sauce by using the liquid froi 
peas as part of the liquid with the milk. Us 
proportion of: 

2 c. liquid V 3 t. salt 

1 tb. fat Pepper 

1 tb. cornstarch 

Add the peas and flaked salmon to the 
Put in a greased baking dish. Cover with * 
tered" crumbs and bake for 20 minutes in a 
erate oven. 

8ALM0V SOOTFli 

2 tb. batter substitute x /% t. paprika 
lVa tb. cornstarch Vi c. salmon 
% o. scalded milk 3 egg yolks 
y% t salt 3 egg whites 

Melt the fat, add the cornstarch and season 
Cook 2 minutes, then add milk slowly, stirrii 
stantly. When thickened and cooked for a 
minutes add the salmon chopped fine. Let 
slightly. Add the well-beaten yolks. When 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Pour it 



56 LIBERTY RECIPES 

greased baking dish and bake 30 minutes in a slow 
oven. Serve immediately. 

BAKED SOT BEAM 

1% <s* yellow soy bean* Yz c. sugar 

y% c. white beans Va t. mustard 

1 onion (may omit) 1 t. salt 

Soak beans for 12 hours. Put all ingredients 
together into a baking dish and cover with cold 
water. Bake 12 hours; add water as needed. 
(Use the Fireless Cooker, if possible.) 

TUNA FISH CHOWDEB 

2 o. diced potatoes 2 tb. fat 

IVi c. tuna fish 1 small onion 

% c. diced celery IV2 t. salt 

1 pt. boiling water Dash pepper 

1 pt. hot milk % t. paprika 

Chop the onion and cook in the fat for 5 minutes 
in the kettle in which the chowder is to be made. 
Add the celery, potatoes and boiling water. Cook 
until the potatoes are almost done, then add the 
flaked tuna fish and seasonings and hot milk. 
Bind with 1 tb. flour and 1 tb. butter substitute 
which have been blended together. Cook 3 min- 
utes and serve. Other fish may be substituted for 
tuna, if desired. 



MKAT SUBSTITUTE DISHES 

TUNA LOAF 
1 o. flaked tuna flah 1 e. aweet milk 

1 o. bread orumba Salt and pepper 

1 egg Onion juiee 

Beat tho ogg until light, then mix all ingred 
together. Press the mixture into a greased 
ing pan and bake 25 minutes. Garnish with 
slioes of lemon or hard eooked eggs. 



MEAT EXTENDER DISHES 

BEEF STEW 
1 lb. beef 1 can peas or 1 peck 

4 potatoes cut in quarters 1 t. salt 

1 c. carrots cut up small 

Cut the meat in small pieces and brown in the 
fat from the meat. Simmer in 2 quarts of water 
for 1 hour. Add the peas and carrots and cook 
for one-half hour, then add the potatoes. If 
canned peas are used, add them 10 minutes before 
serving. Serve when potatoes are done. 

CHARTREUSE OF RICE AND MEAT 

1 c. rice % c. water or meat stock or 

2 qts. water tomato sauce 
1 1. salt Seasonings 

IV2 to 2 c. meat or fish 

Cook the rice in the salted water until tender 
and quite dry. Line the bottom and sides of a 
greased baking dish with rice. Put in the cut-up 
meat, seasonings and liquid. Cover with remain- 
der of rice. Pack solid and bake 20 minutes. 
Serve with a tomato or cheese sauce. 

68 



MEAT EXTENDER DISHES 

ESCALLOPED MEAT 
3 o. cooked meat, chopped 1 t. onion juice 

2 c. bread crumb* 2 c. thick white sauce 
ft t salt 

Mix the meat, crumbs and seasonings. Plac 
two layers in a baking dish with white sauee < 
each layer. Cover with " buttered M crumbs 
bake for 15 or 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

MEAT TIMBALES 

3 c. cold meat, chopped 1 t. salt 

y% o. bread crumbs % t. onion juice 

1 o. meat stock or water % t. pepper 

2 eggs 1 t. chopped parsley 
1 tb. butter substitute 

Mix together the meat, seasonings and crui 
Heat the stock or water, melt the fat in it and 
to the meat mixture. Add the well-beaten \ 
and mix thoroughly. Pack in well-greased nu 
cover, and place in a pan of water. Bake 
moderate oven for 30 minutes. Turn out c 
platter, and serve with tomato sauce. 

SHEPHERDS' FIE 

1 lb. cold cooked mutton % c. water or stock 

2 c. cold boiled potatoes Salt and pepper to tast 
Mj tb. fat 



m L1BKUTY BECIPE8 

Chop the mutton and dice the potatoes. Mix all 
ingredients together and place in a baking diib or 
deep pie pan. Cover with a potato crust, 

POTATO CEWT 

4 Utr%* potMUm % tt>, tut 

% e, ihAmU) wuUer V% t mU 

Hash the potatoes, add the fat, salt and water 
in which potatoes were cooked Beat until light; 
add enough flour to make a soft dough, Boll out, 
make a hole in the center, place over the above 
meat mixture in the pie pan and bake in a moder* 
ate oven for 1 hour, 






- r 



PUBLIC LIBRARY 



ASTOR, LENOX 

T1LDFN FOUNDATIONS 
-- — *-~-~ 



A FEW SALADS 

CABBAGE AHD CHEESE SALAD 
Mix chopped cabbage with Boiled Dressii 

using % c. for each serving. Arrange on or 

lettuce leaves. Make balls of Cream or Cott* 

Cheese, roll in chopped parsley and use as 

garnish with the cabbage. 

Chopped peanuts may be added to the cabbj 

to make a delicious Cabbage and Nut Salad. 

this case omit the cheese balls. 

CABBOT SALAD I 

1 c. grated raw carrots 1 c. chopped peanuts 

1 c. chopped celery Cooked Salad Dressing 

Mix together the carrots, celery and pean 
and moisten with Salad Dressing. Garnish vi 
parsley and a few halves of peanuts. 

CABBOT SALAD II 
1 c sliced apples V? c. sugar 

1 c. sliced raw carrots 2 tb. lemon juice 

% e. chopped pecans Lettuce 

Mix together the apples, carrots and m 
Sprinkle with the sugar, add the lemon juice j 

61 



62 LIBERTY RECIPES 

place on ice for otic hour. Arrange on leaves of 
lettuce and garnish with nut meats. 

COCOAOTT AWD CABBAGE SALAD 

2 c, abredded cabbage Green pepper 

1 e, grated cocoantit y% c. alieed Almond* 

Combine the cabbage and cocoanut and almonds 
with Cooked Salad Dressing. Place on a bed of 
lettuce leaves and garnish with strips of green 
pepper. 

DATE AND APPLE SALAD 

2 c, diced apple* 1 c, chopped date* 

1 e. chopped celery 

Wash and stone and chop the dates. Cut the 
apples in small cubes, and combine both dates and 
apples with the celery. Mix with Mayonnaise 
Dressing and garnish with parsley. This makes a 
crisp and palatable salad. 

MAWHATTAH SALAD 

1 tb, granulated gelatine 2 tb, augar 

% «' cold water 2 tb, lemon jnice 

1 e, boiling water % t, aalt 

Soak gelatine in the cold water for 5 minutes, 
then dissolve by pouring on the hot water. Add 
the lemon juice, sngar and salt. Strain, cool, and 
when beginning to stiffen, add V% c. celery cut in 



A FEW SALADS I 

small pieoes, % a finely shredded cabbage and 
of a canned pimento cut in small pieces. Tui 
into molds and chill. Bomovo from mold, gam 
and serve with Mayonnaise or Cooked Dressing. 

ORANGE AND DATE SALAD 

2 o. stoned dates V& & chopped walnuts 

2 oranges 1 cake pimento cheese 

Mix the nuts with cheese and stuff tho dates wi 
the mixture. Roll in lemon juice. Peel the o 
anges and divide into sections. Place the stuff* 
dates and pieces of orange alternately on crii 
leaves of lettuce and serve with Fronoh Drossin 

ORANGE AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 

2 oranges 1 o. pineapple % <*. preserved cherries 

Lemon Cream Sauce 

Bemovo tho white mombrane from the pulp of 
oranges and cut each section into half, orosswii 
Mix tho pineapple, cut into cubes, with the cl 
rios (drained from the juice). Add the oranf 
and servo with Lemon Cream Sauoe. 

LEMON CBEAX SAUOE 

% e. thick cream 4 tb. sugar 

3 tb. lemon juice 



64 LIBERTY EECIPES 

Whip the cream. Fold in the sugar and lemon 
juice. Serve on fruit salads, 

PEA AHD PEANUT SALAD 

1 can peas (2 c.) Lettuce 

1 c. chopped peanut* Mayonnaise 

Combine the peas and peanuts and moisten with 
Mayonnaise Dressing* Serve on lettuce leaves. 
This makes a substantial luncheon dish, taking 
the place of meat. 

PEAR AND CHEESE SALAD 

Use halves of pears, canned, or ripe juicy pears 

in season. Set a ball of Cream Cheese or Cottage 
Cheese in the center of the halves. Place these 
ombeart leaves of lettuce and pour a highly sea- 
soned dressing over the whole; garnish with 
shreds of pimentos. 

SPICY SALAD DRESSING 

(For above salad) 
% c, salad oil % t. salt 

1 t, vinegar % t, mustard 

V% t> paprika * % c Chili Sauce 

Beat all ingredients together until well blended. 
Then gradually beat into % c. of Mayonnaise 
Dressing* 



A FEW SALADS 

PORCUPIHE SALAD 

Halves of peaches or pean 

Almonda 

Salad Dressing 

Dip the halves of fresh or canned p 
pears into thick Salad Dressing. Lay on 
leaves. Stick in rows, lengthwise, bland: 
shredded almonds. 

EAISIN ATO FEUIT SALAD 
2 oranges 1 c. seeded raisins 

2 bananas 2 tb. lemon juice 

1 grapefruit 

Mix the raisins fend sliced bananas an< 
with the lemon juice. Cut the peeled oran 
grapefruit into cubes. Combine mixtun 
with Mayonnaise Dressing and serve in l 
lettuce leaves. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

2 c. beans 3 tb. oil 
(fresh cooked or canned) % t. paprika 

% thin slice Bermuda onion % t. salt 

1 hard-cooked egg % Chili pepper ( 

(1 tb. finely chopped pars- fine) 

ley may be used) 1% tb. cider vinega 

Make a dressing of the oil, pepper, vine; 
and paprika. Add to the beans and chop 



66 LIBERTY RECIPES 

ion. Mix well and serve with a spoonful of Ma- 
yonnaise on top. Garnish with lettuce or parsley 
and slices of hard-cooked egg. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

3 tb. granulated gelatine 2 cloves 

% c. cold water 1 t. salt 

1 can tomatoes (2c.) Speck paprika 

1 small onion 1 tb. vinegar 
1 stalk celery 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Cook the 
tomatoes, onion, celery, salt, cloves and paprika 
together for ten minutes. Add the vinegar and 
pour the hot mixture over the gelatine. Stir until 
dissolved, strain and mold. Serve with a spoon- 
ful of Salad Dressing on top. (This recipe makes 
4 individual molds.) 

TOMATO SANDWICH SALAD 
Pare and slice tomatoes. Use 2 slices for a 
serving. Place one slice on a lettuce leaf, and 
spread over it, (% inch thick) Cream or Cottage 
Cheese which has been mixed with a little Cream 
to make a smooth paste. Put the other slice of 
tomato on top of the cheese. Place a spoonful of 



A FEW SALADS 

tho chooso on tho top. Servo with Mayom 
Dressing. 

TUNA SALAD 
8 c. tuna flih 1 c. thick Mayonnaise 

1 o. diced celery V4 & French Drawing 

1 hard-cooked egg Vi o. chopped olivea 

1 green pepper, •hredded 

Mix tho flaked tuna, oolery, chopped egg 
groon popper lightly togothor and add tho Frc 
Dressing gradually. Lot stand several ho 
Just before serving add tho chopped olives 
toss lightly again. Plaoe it in tho salad bowl 
put Mayonnaise Dressing over the top. Oar] 
with parsley. If made properly this salad 
provo as delioious and inviting as tho best chic 
salad. 



DBESSINGS FOB SALADS 

BOILED DBESSIVO 

2 eggs 2 tb. sugar 

% c. milk % t. mustard 

% c. vinegar 1 t. salt 

2 tb. butter substitute % t white pepper 
2 tb. flour 

Mix the dry ingredients ; add to the melted fat. 
Mix and add the slightly beaten eggs, the milk and 
the vinegar slowly. Cook over boiling water 
until the mixture thickens. Strain and cooL 

CTTCTTOBEB DBESSING 
Beat 1 c. heavy cream until stiff. Add % t. salt, 
few grains pepper and gradually 2 tb. vinegar; 
then add 1 cucumber, pared, chopped and drained 
through cheese cloth. Use for Fish salads. 

FBENCE DBESSIHG 

4 tb. salad oil V 2 t. salt 

V/ 2 tb. vinegar % t. pepper 

Mix and beat • ingredients until well blended. 
Lemon juice may be used in place of vinegar. A 

68 



DRESSINGS FOR SALADS 

few drops of onion juioe may be added, if desir 

FRUIT 8ALAD DBI88IHO 

1 egg well beaten 
6 tb. fruit juioe 

2 tb, augur 

Mix and oook in a double boiler until thicken 
Beat well. Serve oold. Any kind of juioe may 
used. A combination of two or more fruit jui 
makes a pleasing flavor. 



MAT0NNA 


I 




2eggyolka 




s 


1 1 mustard 




tb^ 


IVi t aalt 




So,i 


1 1 powdered sugar 




a or 


Few grains cayenne 




y be 



Beat the egg yolks; add dry ingredien 
When well mixed, add % t. vinegar. Then add 
gradually, and when thickened add a little lerr 
juioe or vinegar. Add alternately until all 1 
oil is used. Chill and serve on salads. 



SUGAR-SAVING DESSERTS 

APPLE BROWN BETTY 

5 medium-sized apples 4 tb. fat 

1^4 c. bread crumbs 1% tb. lemon juice 

5 tb. corn syrup V2 t. salt 

Y2 c. hot water % t. cinnamon 

Mix together the lemon juice, syrup, salt, spice 
and hot water. Moisten the bread crumbs with 
part of this mixture. Put into a greased baking 
dish, alternate layers of the bread crumbs and ap- 
ples. Pour a part of the liquid over each layer of 
apples. Bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 
Serves ten. 

APRICOT WHIP 

1 c. dried apricots 
% c. powdered sugar 
3 egg whites 

Mash the cooked apricots or press through a 
colander and add the sugar. Beat the whites of 
eggs until quite stiff; fold them into the apricot 
and sugar mixture. Chill and serve. 

70 



HUOAR-SAVINO DESSEKTS 

BUCKWHEAT 8H0ET CAKE 

1 e. milk 1 c. buckwheat flour 

2 t. baking powder Vi o. wheat flour 
1 t. ult 1 tb. fat 

Make a smooth batter by adding the milk 
ually to the mixed dry ingredients. Add m 
fat last. Pour into a pan so that mixture is 
half inch thick. Bake 25 minutes in a n 
quick oven. Cut in squares and serve wi 
sweetened fruit filling. 

CA1AXEL CUSTARD 

1 pt. milk Vn t. salt 

4 eggs 2 tb. caramel sauce 

4 tb. corn syrup 2 t. cornstarch 

Scald the milk. Beat the eggs slightly, 
the salt and sugar, cornstarch, and corn syrt 
the milk and mix until dissolved. Add the 
milk mixture gradually to the beaten eggs, 
ring constantly. Place a little caramel sau< 
the bottom of individual custard cups. Poui 
mixture slowly on top of the sauce to preven 
custard and sauce from mixing. Place the 
in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate 
until firm. To test for sufficient cooking, ins< 



72 LIBERTY RECIPES 

knife into the onstard. If it oomes out clean, the 
custard is done. 

Turn the custard out of the cup and serve hot 
or cold. The caramel serves as a sauoe for the 
pudding. 

CAEAMEL SAUCE 

% o. granulated sugar % <*• boiling water 

Put sugar in a frying pan and stir constantly 
over a flame until it is melted to a light brown 
syrup. Add the water gradually, being careful 
that it does not bubble out of the pan. Simmer 10 
minutes. Serve cold or hot, as a sauoe. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 c. bread crumbs V2 e. corn syrup 

1% <*• scalded milk 1 egg 

1 oz. chocolate % t. salt 

% 0. boiling water % t. vanilla 

Pour scalded milk over the bread crumbs; let 
stand until soft. Add the boiling water to the 
chocolate cut up in small pieces ; cook gently until 
a smooth paste is formed. Add this to the bread 
mixture. Add the syrup and salt to the beaten 
egg. Combine mixtures, add vanilla; bake in a 
greased baking dish, in a moderate oven. Cover 



SUGAR-SAVING DESSERTS 

during the first 15 minutes. Serve with crew 
Vanilla Sauoe. 

CHOCOLATE CORNSTAECH PUDDING 

2 o. milk 2 t. vanilla 

V+ o. cornstarch Nutmeg (spk.) 

% o. corn syrup 1% sq. Baker's ohoc< 

Mix a little oold milk with the oorns 
Soald rest of milk in double boiler. Add hot : 
slowly to the moistened cornstarch, stirring 
idly. Add the oorn syrup and grated chooo 
Return to double boiler and stir constantly i 
mixture thickens. Cook 30 minutes. Add i 
ing and pour into a mold. 

COCOANUT PUDDING 

1 pt. milk Vi o. oorn syrup (light] 

4 tb. cornstarch % t. vanilla 

% o. shredded cocoanut 

Add Vi o. of the oold milk to the cornstarch 
mix until smooth. Soald remainder of milk ; \ 
over the cornstarch mixture, stirring constai 
Add the oorn syrup and ooooanut and cook : 
double boiler 40 minutes. Stir until the mix 
thickens; then occasionally. Add vanilla 
done and pour into molds whioh have been dip 
into oold water. Serve oold. 



74 LIBERTY RECIPES 

DATE CUSTARD 

% o. dates, seeded V% t. salt 

2 o. milk % t. nutmeg 

2 eggs 

Cook dates in the milk 15 minutes in top of dou- 
ble boiler. Rub through a strainer; add beaten 
eggs, salt, and nutmeg. Place mixture in a 
greased baking dish and bake in a slow oven until 
firm (about 50 or 60 minutes). 

DATE PUDDING 

1 e. dates 2 tb. cornstarch 

y% o. sugar 1 t. baking powder 

2 eggs Pinch salt 
% o. English walnuts 

Wash and stone and cut up the dates. Mix the 
eggs and sugar. Then add the dates, the chopped 
nuts and all dry ingredients mixed together, to the 
first mixture. Bake in a greased baking dish in a 
moderate oven until the mixture is firm. Serve 
hot with plain or whipped cream. 

FRUIT SHOUT CAKE 

1 e. corn flour % t. salt 

1 o. 50-50 flour %, to y 2 c liquid (milk or 

8 to 4 tb. butter substitute water) 

4 t. baking powder 



SUGAR-SAVING DESSERTS 

Mix according to directions for baking powc 
biscuits. Use enough liquid to make a soft doi 
Roll out to one-half inch in thiokness. P c 
half the mixture in a greased, shallow pan, tt 
spread it sparingly with melted fat Plaoe 1 
rest of the dough on top and bake 20 to 30 minut 
Remove from the pan, split the cake open and 
with crushed and sweetened berries or frui 
Save out a few uncrushed fruits to garnish the t< 
Serve with plain cream, Whipped Cream Sauce, 
a Fruit Sauce. 

HUT BLAWO XANOS 

i\b tb, <K>rnnUrch 1% & hot milk 

4 tb, own ayrup Vi t, salt 

H * <*)ld milk 1 t, vanilla 

Mix the cornstarch with the oold milk. W 
smooth add the hot milk to which has been 
the salt and com syrup. Cook directly over 1 
flame until the mixture thickens, then place ir 
double boiler and cook one-half hour. Add the i 
nilla and I o. finely chopped nut meats. Pour ii 
molds (moistened with cold water), and set asi 
to cool. Serve with Chocolate Sauoe or fr 
juice, or cream* 



76 LIBERTY RECIPES 

Plain Blanc Mange may be made by omitting 
the nuts. 

OATMEAL PUDDING 

2 e. cooked oatmeal % t. salt 

% c. dark corn syrup % t. cloves 

y 2 c. seeded, chopped raisins % t. cinnamon 
1 tb. milk 

Mix oatmeal, corn syrup, salt, spices and milk 
together and heat in double boiler until the mixture 
has a smooth consistency. Add raisins. Put into 
a greased baking dish and bake 35 minutes in a 
moderately hot oven. 

PBTTHE PUDDING I 

1 c. prunes, cooked, seeded 1 tb. fat, melted 

and chopped % c. fine cracker crumbs 

Y2 c. corn syrup 1 t. baking powder 

1 c. chopped nuts 1 t. vanilla 

y± c milk Pinch of salt 

Mix all ingredients well. Place in a greased 
baking dish. Place this in a pan of hot water and 
bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven, or until the 
mixture is firm. Serve hot with cream. 

PRUNE PUDDING H 

4 slices bread 1 c. prunes 

1 c. milk % c. sugar 

1 egg Nutmeg and salt to taste 



SUGAR-SAVING DESSERTS 

Remove the stones from cooked prunes 
drain from the water. Add the sugar and nuti 
Break or cut the bread in pieces. Put the bi 
and prunes in a greased baking dish in alteri 
layers, having a layer of the bread on top. Bu 
(using a substitute) the top side of the top li 
of pieces of bread. Add the milk and salt to 
beaten egg and pour this mixture over the bi 
and prunes. Bake slowly until the milk is tt 
ened. Cover during the first 15 minutes. 

SAISIV BARS 

% o* raisins or dates 1 egg 

% o. English walnuts 1 t. baking powder 

V2 c. sugar 2 tb. flour 

% e. milk 

Beat egg separately; mix all ingredients 
the beaten yolk; add the white last. Bake i 
sheet. Serve with Whipped Cream Sauce. 

EICE AND PEACH MOLD 

2 e. cooked rice % t. salt 

4 halves of peaches % t. nutmeg 

2 tb. corn syrup % t. cinnamon 

Heat the rice, syrup, salt and spices in a doi 
boiler with a little milk, until the mixture 



78 LIBERTY EECIPES 

smooth. Add the peaches cut in small pieces. 
Mix well ; pour into molds which have been dipped 
in cold water. Chill and serve with a sauce or 

« 

with cream. Any left-over cereal may be used in 
place of rice. 

STRAWBEBBY SOU 

2 eggs % t salt 

V2 c. sugar V/2 t. baking powder 

% c. barley flour % c. water 

% c. wheat flour 1 tb. butter substitute 

Rind of 1 lemon (grated) 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar, and cream well. 
Add the lemon rind, salt and baking powder to the 
sifted and mixed flours. Add to the egg mixture 
alternately with the water. Melt fat and add last. 
Bake in a sheet in a moderate oven. When done, 
spread with sweetened and crushed berries and 
roll as a Jelly Roll. Serve with cream or a sauce. 





TAPIOCA CEEAM 


3 tb. tapioea 


1 t vanilla 


1 pt. milk 


% c. corn syrup 


2 eggs 


1 tb. cornstarch 



Soak the tapioca (pearl) in cold water until soft. 
Bring milk to the boil, stir in the tapioca and the 
yolks of the eggs beaten with the sugar; when 



SUGAR-SAVING DESSERTS 

cooked sufficiently, add vanilla and pour the n 
ture on the stiffly beaten whites. Cut and fold 
until well blended Serve as a dessert. 

FBOZEN MAPLE CUSTARD 

2 c milk % t. salt 

1 c. maple syrup 1 tb. cornstarch 

3 eggs 

Mix the salt and cornstarch and moisten wit 
little cold milk. Heat the rest of the milk. P 
slowly over the cornstarch mixture and bea 
eggs, stirring constantly. When thickened, c 
and freeze. May be served with Chocolate Sai 





PETTIT ICE 


3 pts. water 


3 oranges 


2 c. sugar 


3 lemons 


1% c. strained honey 


3 bananas 



Boil together the sugar, honey and water f oi 
minutes. Cool. Add the juice from the lem 
and oranges. Crush and mash the peeled i 
scraped bananas to a soft pulp. Add to the f 
mixture immediately and freeze at once. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

1 c. hot maple syrup 4 eggs 

1 pt, thick cream 



80 LIBERTY RECIPES 

Pour the hot maple syrup onto the eggs beaten 
slightly. Cook until thickened. Cool. Fold in 
the cream beaten until stiff. Place in a mold, pack 
in salt and ice and let stand about 3 hours. 



SAUCES FOR DESSERTS 

* 

APEICOT SAUCE 

% c. apricot pulp % c. heavy cream 

Drain cooked apricots and rub through a Bie\ 
Boat cream until stiff, fold into the apricot pu 
and sweeten to taste. Use as a sauce for pu 
dings or stale cake. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

V2 c. corn syrup 4 tb. grated chocolate 

IV2 tb. cornstarch 1 c. boiling water 
% t. salt 

Mix all the dry ingredients and the chocolal 
Gradually add the boiling water, stirring co 
stantly. Boil for 5 minutes. 

FRUIT SAUCE 
% c. corn syrup 1 tb. lemon juice 

% c. sugar 1 tb. grated lemon rind 

% c. fruit juice Pinch salt 

% c. hot water % t. cinnamon 

1 tb. cornstarch 

Mix the sugar, cornstarch and salt. Add tl 
boiling water slowly, stirring constantly ; then a< 

81 



82 LIBERTY RECIPES 

the corn syrup. Boil 5 minutes; then add the 
lemon juice, rind, and spice. Peach, pear, pine- 
apple or prune juices may be used alone or in com- 
bination. 

LEMOH SAUCE 

% e. sugar 1% tb. lemon juice 

% c. corn syrup Few gratings nutmeg 

1 tb. cornstarch Few grains salt 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar. Add the water 
slowly, stirring constantly; then add the corn 
syrup. Boil 5 minutes, and add the lemon juice, 
salt and nutmeg. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

2 c. boiling water 1 tb. cornstarch 

*4 <?• corn syrup 1 tb. butter substitute 

1 t. vanilla 

Mix the cornstarch and corn syrup. Pour the 
water gradually onto the mixture, and cook for 15 
minutes. If the sauce is too thick, dilute with 
water. Add the butter substitute and vanilla just 
before serving. 

WHIFFED CBEAH SAUCE 

% c. thick cream % c. powdered sugar 

% c. milk % t. vanilla 

Mix the cream and milk. Beat until stiff. Add 
sugar and vanilla. 






TK 
PUBLIC LI&r.AM 



ASTOR. LENOX 
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS 



PATRIOTIC CAKES AND COOKIES 

Recipes for the richer cakes and cookies call fo: 
ingredients which violate greatly the conservation 
program. Therefore in war times, it is best to us< 
only the simplest recipes; and to make substitu 
tion, as far as possible, for the wheat flour, anin 
fat and sugar. A few suggestions follow : 

1. In both Sponge and "Butter" Cakes the fol 
lowing flours may be used alone or in combinatioi 
with wheat flour: rice, corn, potato, barley am 
oats flours. Substitution should be made bj 
weight instead of measure. (See table givei 
pnder Yeast Breads.) For the wheat flour ii 
Sponge Cake, a 100 per cent substitution may 
made. For "Butter" Cakes a 50 per cent substi 
tution is a safe rule. One hundred per cent sub 
stitution may be made, however, with both barle; 
and oats flour. 

2. Substitute the vegetable fats or fat com 
pounds for the animal fat usually used. Drip 

83 



84 LIBERTY RECIPES 

pings are excellent for both cakes and cookies. 

3. For the sugar ingredient 

(a) Reduce the amount by using one-half 

sugar and one-half corn-syrup. 

(b) "When syrup is used, add citron, raisins 

or other dried fruits to increase the 
sweetness (if desired). 
(o) Honey, maple syrup and molasses may 
be used as substitutes in many cases. 

4. Reduce sugar used in f rostings by 

(a) Omitting frosting altogether, or 

(b) Sprinkling the cake lightly before bak- 

ing, with spice and sugar. 

(c) Using dried fruit fillings sweetened 

with honey or corn syrup. 

(d) Using sugarless frostings or fillings. 

(e) Using raisins and dried fruits inside 

the cake. 

(f ) Making more cookies. 

Standard recipes for Sponge and Butter Cakes 
follow. Use the substitute flours in the propor- 
tions mentioned above, following these general 
rules for other ingredients and the mixing and 
baking. 



PATRIOTIC CAKES AND COOKIES 85 





SPONGE CAKE 




(Standard Recipe) 


4 38? yolka 


1 tb. lemon juice 


1 c. sugar 


y 2 t. salt 


1 o. flour 


4 egg whites 



Method of mixing ingredients : 

Beat the yolks of eggs until thick and lemon col- 
ored. Gradually add the sugar, creaming thor- 
oughly. Add the lemon juice. Beat again. Sift 
the flour (and baking powder, if used) several 
times. Add salt to the egg whites and beat until 
stiff. Then add the flour and beaten whites alter- 
nately to the yolk mixture, folding in carefully and 
thoroughly, until all are used. Place immediately 
into a pan and bake in a slow oven 50 to 60 min- 
utes. 

"BUTTER" CAKE 

(Standard Recipe) 
% c. fat (butter substitute) 1 c. liquid 
1 egg 6 t. baking powder 

1% c. sugar 1 1. flavoring 

3 c. flour % t. salt 

This recipe is for a plain cake. It may be made 
richer by increasing the fat and eggs. This will 



86 LIBERTY RECIPES 

lessen the amount of liquid and baking powder 
used in above recipe. 

Method of mixing ingredients : 

Cream the fat (a butter substitute) by mashing 
it well with a spoon until a soft mass results ; add 
the sugar gradually, creaming each portion before 
the next is added. Beat the egg until light and 
add. Beat this mixture well ; then add the flavor- 
ing. Add the milk and sifted dry ingredients al- 
ternately until all have been used. Beat the mix- 
ture thoroughly. Turn into a greased pan and 
bake in a moderate oven. Bake a layer cake for 
15 or 20 minutes ; a loaf cake 45 minutes to 1 hour. 



BARLEY PRUNE CAKE 

1 c. light brown sugar 1% c. barley flour 
Vi c. butter substitute 2 t. baking powder 

2 eggs 1 e. well cooked prunes, 
4 tb. milk drained and cut in 
1 t. cinnamon small pieces 

1 1. nutmeg 

Cream the sugar and shortening; add eggs well 
beaten. Mix together the flour, baking powder 
and spices. Add alternately with the milk. Add 
the prunes and bake in a loaf pan about 1 hour. 



PATRIOTIC CAKES AND COOKIES 87 

BUCKWHEAT SPICE CAKE 

%, e. sugar 2 t baking powder 

y% o. molasses %, t. aalt 

1 egg 1 t. cinnamon 

% c. milk %, t. cloves 

1 c. buckwheat floor 1 t. vanilla 

8 tb. fat. 

Follow general rules for mixing cake, and bake 
in muffin tins or a loaf pan in a moderate oven. 
The mixture will be quite thin. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH COBJT FLOTTB 

% c. fat V2 c. corn flour 

V/2 squares grated chocolate % <*. wheat flour 
% c. boiling water % t. soda 

% c. sugar % c. sour milk 

% c. corn syrup 1 egg 

Pour the hot water over the chocolate and fat 
and mix until dissolved. Add the sugar and corn 
syrup. When lukewarm add the sour milk, egg, 
and then the flours combined with the soda. Mix 
thoroughly and bake in layers or in a loaf. The 
batter will be quite thin. 



CHOCOLATE LATEB CAKE 

2 tb. fat 1 c. milk 

1 c. brown sugar 2 c. flour (50-60) 
% cake melted chocolate 2 t. baking powder 

2 egg yolks 



88 LIBERTY RECIPES 

Cream the fat, add one half the sugar and mix 
well. Then add the beaten yolks and the remain- 
der of the sugar. Melt the chocolate and add 
when cool. Sift the baking powder with the 
flour and add alternately with the milk. Bake in 
3 layers. Use Mock " Boiled Frosting' ' between 
layers. 

COEN HEAL GINGER BBEAD 

2 c. corn meal 1 c. sour milk 

% o. molasses 1 e. sweet milk 

% o. sugar 1 o. wheat (lour 

2 tb. fat iy 2 t soda 

1 1. salt 1 egg 

Spices: % t. ginger, 1 t. cinnamon, Vi t. cloves 

Mix first seven ingredients and spices in double 
boiler and cook over hot water for about 10 min- 
utes. Cool, and add wheat flour, soda and egg 
well beaten. Bake in a shallow pan 35 minutes. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

Vs c. fat 3 c. barley flour 

2 c. molasses 5% t. baking powder 
'% t. soda x /2 t. wit 

x /2 c. milk 3 egg whites 

3 egg yolks 1% t. vanilla 

4 squares chocolate 

Add the molasses to the melted fat. Add the 
milk, well beaten yolks, melted chocolate and van- 



PATMOTIC CAKES AND COOKIES 89 

ilia. Sift together the flour, salt, baking powder 

and soda, and add gradually to the mixture. Mix 

thoroughly, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 
Pour into a well-greased pan and bake. 

EGOLESS, MILKLESS, BUTTEBLESS CAKE 

1 o. brown sugar 1 t. Bn It 

1 c. water 1 t. cinnamon 

1 o. raisins seeded nnd out % o. fat 

up Mj t. nutmeg 

Boil carefully for 3 minutes ; when cool, add 2 o. 
flour, Vi t. baking powder, 1 1. soda. Bake slowly 
1 hour in a loaf pan. 

LOAF CAKE 

y» o. butter substitute 1 o. potato flour 

% c. sugar % o. wheat flour 

y± o. com syrup 2 1 /a t baking powder 

Va c milk (scant) 1 1. vanilla 

2 eggs 

Follow general rules for mixing. Plaoe in a 
well-greased loaf pan and bake 1 hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

MAPLE SYBUP OAKS 

% o. fat 2 e. wlieat flour 

Va o. granulated sugar 1 scant o. barley flour 

1 o. maple syrup 2 t. baking powder 

2 eggs % t. soda 
Vi o. water V% t. ginger 



90 LIBERTY RECIPES 

Cream the fat and add gradually the sugar, the 
maple syrup and well beaten eggs. Sift together 
the dry ingredients and add alternately with 
the water. Bake in a loaf pan 45 to 60 min- 
utes. 

MOCHA CAKE 

l*/2 tb. butter substitute % t. vanilla 

% c. sugar 1 c. flour (barley) 

1 egg 1% t. baking powder 

% c. milk 2 sq. chocolate 

% t. salt 

Cream butter ; add sugar, yolk of egg, milk and 
vanilla; flour sifted with baking powder and salt 
3 times ; and then the melted chocolate. Mix well 
and fold in beaten white of egg. Bake in 2 small 
layers in a moderately hot oven. When cool, put 
together with Mocha Frosting. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD 

1 c. molasses IV2 c. barley flour 

% c. fat V2 c. "wheat flour 

1% t. soda 2 t. ginger 

% c. sour milk y 2 t. salt 

legg 

Heat the molasses and fat together until the boil- 
ing point is reached. Remove from fire and while 
stirring rapidly, add the soda. Then add the milk, 



PATRIOTIC CAKES AND COOKIES 91 

well beaten egg and the dry ingredients mixed and 
sifted together. Bake in muffin pans 15 or 20 
minutes. 



ONI IOO CAKE 

Vi cu fat H *• <*>rn flour 

% o, augur 9% t taking powder 

1 egg % t vanilla or lemon ex- 
H * milk tract 

1 e, Se-50 flour 

Cream the fat, add sugar, and egg well beaten. 
Mix and sift flours and baking powder together. 
Add alternately with milk. Bake 30 minutes in 
shallow pan or in muffin pans. (12 muffins.) 



ORANGE LAYEB OAKS 

1 e. sugar 1 & potato flour (or other 
Vi e. fat auhatitute) 

1 e. milk 3 t, baking powder 

1 egg white 1 t vanilla 
1 e. wheat flour 

Cream the fat, add the sugar gradually, and 
cream well Add vanilla. Sift and mix together 
the flours and baking powder. Add alternately 
with the milk ; fold in the beaten white last. Use 
orange frosting between the layers. 



92 LIBERTY RECIPES 

SPICED COEH CAKE 

1 c. corn ami % <*. sour milk 

Yi c, whole wheat flour % <*. water 

% c. rye flour 1 t. ginger 

*4 c. molaaae* X t, cinnamon 

% t. salt Vi t. clove* 

% t. soda ^4 <*• rawing 

Mix all dry ingredients and add the milk, water 
and molasses and then floured raisins* Bake in a 
moderate oven 1 hour in a loaf pan. 

BARLEY SPONGE CAKE 

1 e. sugar V/z t baking powder 

4 egg yolk* Vi t, gait 

1 c. barley flour 1 1. lemon juice 

1 tb. water 4 egg white* 

Beat the yolks until lemon colored; add sugar 
gradually, beating constantly. Add water and the 
flour which has been sifted with the salt and baking 
powder. Add lemon juice and fold in the beaten 
whites. Bake in a slow oven for 1 hour. 

WHEATLESS SPICE CAKE 

% c. sugar 1 egg 

*4 c. fat \ x />i t. baking powder 

V3 c. milk V% t cinnamon 

1 c. oatmeal % t. nutmeg 

x /<l c. barley flour % t. allspice 

Grind the oatmeal in a food chopper. Sift and 



PATRIOTIC CAKES AND COOKIES 93 

put the screenings back in. Mix together all the 
dry ingredients. Cream the fat and sugar to- 
gether. Add the egg well beaten, the milk and the 
dry ingredients. Bake in a moderate oven as a 
loaf or in muffin pans. 

BAELET DROP CAKES 

% o. fat 2 t. baking powder 

% o. sugar % t. salt 

% o. raisins % o. water or milk 

1 egg % °* chopped nuts 

2 c barley flour 

Cream the fat and sugar. Add beaten egg and 
milk. Sift the dry ingredients together and add 
the chopped raisins and nuts. Combine mixtures 
and beat thoroughly. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto 
a greased pan or baking sheet and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Spices may be added, if desired. 

BABLEY LEMON QUEENS 

% e. butter substitute % tb. cornstarch 

Grated rind 1 lemon 1 e. barley flour 

% c. sugar % c 60-50 flour 

% c. corn syrup % t soda 

Yolks of 3 eggs Whites 3 eggs 

3 tb. lemon juice 

Cream the butter, add the lemon rind. Grad- 
ually beat in the sugar, then the corn syrup and the 



94 LIBERTY RECIPES 

beaten egg yolks. Add lemon juice. Sift to- 
gether the flours, baking soda and cornstarch. 
Add to the first mixture alternately with the beaten 
whites. Bake in muffin pans in a moderately hot 
oven. 

BARLEY COOKIES 

Yi c. fat % c. wheat flour 

% o. corn syrup (dark) 2 t. baking powder 

1 egg % t. salt 

% c. milk % c. cocoanut 

1 t. lemon juice l/ 2 c . raisins 
% c. barley flour 

Add melted fat to the corn syrup; then the 
beaten eggs and milk. Add this mixture grad- 
ually to the sifted dry ingredients. Lastly add 
the lemon juice, raisins and cocoanut. Drop from 
a teaspoon into a greased pan and bake 12 to 15 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

COCOANUT DEOP COOKIES 

2 tb. brown sugar 1 t. baking powder 
% c. mo leases V2 t. soda 

% 0. sour milk % c. buckwheat 

y* e. fat V/2 c. rye flour 

1 egg % c. corn meal 

% t. salt Vs c. cocoanut 

Mix the molasses, sugar, melted fat, and beaten 
eggs together. Sift and mix the dry ingredients ; 



PATRIOTIC CAKES AND COOKIES 95 

add alternately with the milk. Drop the mixture 
by teaspoonfuls on greased pans and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

COCOANUT KISSES 
2 egg whites % e. gran, sugar 

% tb. cornstarch 

Beat egg whites until stiff; mix sugar and corn- 
starch and add gradually to egg whites, beating 
constantly. Put in a double boiler and cook 15 
minutes. Remove and add 1M> a cocoanut; flavor 
if desired. Drop by spoonfuls on greased tins and 
bake 10 to 20 minutes. 

CORN MEAL COOKIES 

1% c wheat flour % c. sugar 

1% o. fine corn meal 3 tb. fat 

1 1, salt 1 egg 

2 t. baking powder 1 1. vanilla 

% o. corn syrup Milk sufficient to mix (%e*t) 

Mix together the flour, corn meal, salt and bak- 
ing powder and sift twice. Cream the fat and su- 
gar ; add well beaten egg, then flavoring, and the 
milk and dry ingredients alternately. Add only 
enough milk to make of consistency to roll out 
Boll to % inch thickness and cut ; bake in shallow 
pans 10 minutes. 



96 LIBERTY EECIPES 

SATE BABS 

% c. butter substitute 2% e. flour 

1 c brown sugar % c cold water 

2% c. rolled oats 1 1. soda 

Make a paste of: 1 c. cooked apricots and 

1 lb. seeded dates, or 1 c. seeded dates 

% c. water Cook in double boiler until 

1 c brown sugar a smooth paste results. 

Mix first 6 ingredients as for cake. Boll % inch 
thick. Spread one half the dough with the paste. 
Cover with layer of dough. Cut in small strips 
and bake. (50 bars.) 

HONEY COOKIES 

% c. honey 1 c. raisins 

% c. fat y 2 t. soda 

V/2 c. wheat flour % t. salt 

V/2 c. barley or corn flour 1 1. lemon rind grated 

1 egg 1 1. lemon juice 

% t. each of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves 

Heat together the fat and honey until melted, 
then add the spices and grated lemon rind. When 
lukewarm add the beaten eggj lemon juice and the 
flour to which has been added the salt and soda and 
chopped raisins. This should make a stiff dough. 
After mixing thoroughly, let stand overnight in a 
cool place. Then knead slightly, roll in a thin 



PATRIOTIC CAKES AND COOKIES 97 

sheet, cat, and bake in a hot oven for 10 minutes. 
These cookies are better the longer they are kept 
before using. 



1 e. brown sugar 
1 c. drippings 
1 e. molasses 

1 c chopped raisins 

2 eggs 

% c. strong coffee 



HEBMTS 

1 t. each soda, ground cin- 
namon, cloves, nutmeg 
% t. allspice 
Flour to make a soft dough 

(Vfc barley and % white 

flour) 



Cream sugar and drippings. Add eggs well 
beaten, coffee, dry ingredients and chopped fruit. 
Take a small portion of dough at a time and roll 
out on a well floured board. Cut and bake in a 
quick oven. 



OATMEAL COOKIES 



% c. molasses 
% c sugar 
% e. fat 

1 egg 

2 c. rolled oats 

% c. sweet milk (scant) 



1 c. raisins 

3 t. baking powder 

1 t. cinnamon 
Pinch salt 

2 c. flour (barley or wheat) 



Cream the fat; add sugar gradually, then the 
molasses. Mix all dry ingredients and add al- 
ternately with the milk. Flour the cut-up raisins 
and add last. Drop by teaspoonfuls in greased 



i*i LIKKKTY JiKC'JPKH 

pan* and bake 15 minute*. Thin recipe make* 75 
nrrotll cookie*, 

EAISIV XABGVEftllES 

1 e. w*Ai'A rmntrm J *|0{ whit* 

J *, *hr<r'J<J''<J wttnttul % e„ utypa 

y% v. *\*t\f\#A\ EttyJmU w»l- VrwSwm 
not* 

Fold the rai*in*, cocoanut and nut* into tbo 
stiffly beaten white*. Add the *u#ar gradually. 
When well combined, place the mixture, */% inch 
deep, on top of cracker*, Tlacc a rai*in or rnarah* 
mallow in the eenter of each cracker. Brown in 
a moderately hot oven. 

SOILED OATf AHD BUCKWHEAT D10P COOKIEf 

% *, f*t 2 «, bw>kwU**t fUmr 

% /% <:. tWfWw* 2 *,. r*AM <m\M 

y A *„ wrn %'jrup V* *» rnmtm 

% *% wtnr ttttlk 1 i, wnnnmm 

% t **Jt 1 t, v*ttiH* 

(Irwin the fat, add alternately the li'juid* and 
the dry ingredient* which have Wfn *iftcd to- 
aether Add the vanilla, then the rolled oat* and 
the ruhttiH. Orop the mixture by *poonfu1* on 
(frcaacd pan* and hake in a hot oven. 






ti.k.'K. SnlailH. I)iwert». from "l.ilm 



'Ji!;. ' • 






FROSTINQS AND FILLINGS 

( SUQ AH SAVING) 

APPLE BUTTIB FILLING 

1 Ot apple butter V& *• chopped nut* 

Stir tho nuts into tho apple buttor. Swooton to 
tasto and spread. 

CHOCOLATE FHXINO 

(EggloM and Sujrarletia) 

2 e. milk Vv cake «weet chocolate 

\\ e, cornstarch Vi t. vanilla 

Iloat tho milk. Add tho cornstarch which has 
boon dissolved in a littlo cold liquid (part of tho 
milk). Cook 5 minutes. Add tho chocolate and 
vanilla. When chocolate is completely dissolved, 
boat well and spread hetwoon tho layers of cake. 

CREAM FUTJIT FILLING 
% c, heavy cream * a c. chopped prunes 

H c. powdered augur V± c. chopped nut meats 

Va e. chopped flpi 2 th. lemon juice 

Boat tho cream until stiff, Fold in tho sugar 
and nut meats, Moisten tho combined figs and 
prunoa with tho lemon juice, and add to tho first 
mixture. Uso as a filling for cakes. 



100 LIBERTY RECIPES 

DRIED FRUIT FILLING 

1 c. stewed dried peaches or 1 tb. orange juice 

apricots 3 tb. honey or corn syrup 

1 c. seeded raisins 1 c. hot water 

Let cook in a double boiler until well thickened. 
Cool and use for cake fillings, sponge rolls (like 
Jelly Roll) or for spreading on crackers to use as 
Marguerites. 

FIG FILLING 

% lb. figs chopped % c. boiling water 

y$ c. sugar 1 tb. lemon juice 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cook in double 
boiler until thick enough to spread. Use while 
hot. 

MOCK "BOILED FROSTING" 

2 egg whites % c. white corn syrup 
1 t. vanilla % c. water 

Boil the corn syrup and water together until it 
falls in a sheet-like drop from the spoon. Pour 
half of the mixture slowly over the beaten whites, 
beating constantly. Put the rest of the syrup back 
on the stove to cook a couple of minutes longer, 
then add to the egg mixture, beating constantly. 
Add the vanilla and when cool and stiff use as 
frosting. 



FROSTING S AND FILLINGS 101 

MAPLE FB08TING 

1*4 o. maplo syrup 
2 tb. corn syrup 
2 egg whites 

Boil the syrups together to the soft ball stage 
(240° F.) Pour slowly onto the beaten whites, 
stirring constantly. Beat until cold. If it does 
not get stiff enough to hold its shape in the bowl, 
set over boiling water and keep beating it from the 
bottom until it thickens. 

MOCHA FROSTING 

% o. butter substitute 2 tb. coffee infusion 

V/2 e. powdered sugar 1 1 vanilla 

Cream the butter substitute. Add gradually 
the sugar, creaming well. Add the coffee and van- 
illa last. More sugar may bo needed to make of 
consistency to spread. 

ORANGE HONEY FILLING 

% e. sugar % <*• orange juice 

% <*• light corn Byrup .% e. chopped orange peel 

Yi c« water 

Boil the sugar, corn syrup, orange juice and 
water together until the syrup spins a thread. 
Remove white portion from orange peel and chop 



102 LIBERTY RECIPES 

fine. Add the orange peel to the cooked syrup; 
bring again to the boiling point. !When cool use 
for cake filling. 

SUGABLESS ORANGE FROSTING 

1 o. white corn syrup 1 egg white 

1 e. wuter Juice and rind of 1 orange 

Cook together the syrup and water until it drops 
in a sheet from the spoon. Pour one-half the 
syrup slowly onto the stiffly beaten white of egg. 
Add the orange juice and rind. Mix well. Add 
the remainder of the syrup which has cooked a 
minute longer and beat until cold and stiff. 



PASTEIES AND SUGABLESS FILLINGS 

OOEH FLOTJB BISCUIT CBTJ8T 
1 c. wheat flour 4 t baking powder 

1 c corn floor % c ( t ) milk or milk an< 

3 ib. fat water 

y 2 t. salt 

Cut the fat into the sifted dry ingredients, thei 

add enough liquid to make a soft dough. Pat anc 
roll out to % inch thickness and use as a lowei 
crust for a fruit pie. 

POTATO BISCUIT CBTJST 
1!4 c. pastry floor 3 tb. fat 

4 1. baking powder % e. cooked potato presses 

% t salt through a ricer 

Out the fat into the sifted dry ingredients. Mu 
with the potatoes. Mix to a soft dough with milk 
Turn onto a floured board, knead slightly and rol 
out. Use as the top crust for meat pics or i 
lower crust for a fruit pie. 

WHEATLESS FIE CBUST I 
% e, rye floor % t. baking powder 

% e. corn floor 3 or 4 tb. fat 

y 3 t salt % to % c. water 

103 



104 LIBERTY RECIPES 

Cut fat into the sifted dry ingredients. Add 
water to make a stiff dough. Chill and roll out. 

WHEATLESS FIE CRUST U 

V2 c. rye flour Va t. baking powder 

Vz c. barley flour 3 or 4 tb. fat 

% c. corn flour % to % c. water 

Va t. salt 

Mix ingredients as for Pie Crust No. 1. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING 

1% c. scalded milk 1% *q* chocolate 

% c. cornstarch % c. cold milk 

4 tb. corn syrup % t. vanilla 

34 t. salt 

Mix and cook as for a pudding. Use as a filling 
in a baked crust. Cover with a Meringue and 
brown lightly in the oven. 

MERINGUE 
2 egg whites 
% c. corn syrup 
% c. water 

Follow directions given for Mock " Boiled 
Frosting" for cakes. Use as a Meringue for pies. 

FRUIT FILLING 
Use any fruits which have been cooked and 

sweetened with honey or corn syrup. 



PASTRIES 

MAPLE FILLING 

1 qt. milk 

% o. cornstarch 

1 e. maple syrup 

Moisten the cornstarch with part of 
liquid When smooth add the remaindc: 
milk which has been heated, stirring coi 
Add the syrup and cook in a double boile 
until thickened, then let cook, stirring o 
ally, for 20 minutes. Use in a baked crui 



PUMPKIN FELLING 

IVi <*. strained pumpkin IV2 <*. milk 

V2 c. corn syrup % t. salt 

% c. molasses % t. mace or nuti 

1 egg % t. cinnamon 

Mix ingredients in order given and use 
filling. 

SWEET POTATO FILLING 

2 c. mashed potato (cooked) 4 tb. corn syrup 
2 egg yolks 1 0. milk 

% t. salt Nutmeg and allspu 

Mix all ingredients well and use in \ 
crust. 



106 LIBERTY RECIPES 

COTTAGE CHEESE FILLING 

(With Sugar) 

1 c. cottage cheese 1 tb. melted fat 
2 /i c. sugar % t. vanilla 

% c. milk Salt 

2 egg yolks 

Beat the egg yolks. Mix the ingredients in or- 
der given. Place the mixture in a one-crust pie 
and bake. Make a Meringue of the egg whites. 
Cover the baked pie with the Meringue and brown 
in a slow oven. 



it 



For what avail the plough or sail, 
Or land or life, if freedom fail?" 

— Embbson. 



THB NKW YOMK PUBLIC] LIBRARY 



c_ 



Till* tone- k nadir 

• 



•If ftflmilMMt !• fe« 



MM 



NOV | Iffl 



fi> i in itrt 



I . ' I i HMH 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 



TEMPTING DISHES 



WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS 
ON COOKERY, &<:• 



A LA MODE COOKERY: Up-to-Date Recipes. 
With 24 Plates (16 in Colour). Crown 8vo. 5*. net. 

CAKES AND CONFECTIONS A LA MODE. 

Crown 8vo. is, td, 
DOGS : a Manual for Amateurs. Crown 8vo. is, 6d, 

DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY A LA MODE. 
Crown 8vo. is. td. 

DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. Crown 

Bvo. If. 6d. 

DRINKS A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. u. 6d, 

ENTRIES A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is, 6d, 

FLORAL DECORATIONS. Crown 8vo. is, 6d, 

GARDENING A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. Part L 
Vegetables, is. 6d. Part II. Fruits. Crown 8vo. is. 6d' 

NATIONAL VIANDS A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. 
is.6d. 

NEW-LAID EGGS. Crown 8vo. is, 6d 

OYSTERS A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is, 6d. 

PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Crown 
Bvo. XX. 6d. 

SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d, 

SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 
Crown Bvo. is. 6d, 

SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 
Crown Bvo. is. 6d. 

TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES. 
Crown Bvo. is. 6d. 

WRINKLES AND NOTIONS FOR EVERY 
HOUSEHOLD. Crown Bvo. m. &/. 



LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 39 Paternoster Row, London 
New York and Bombay. 



TEMPTING DISHES 



FOR SMALL INCOMES 



BY 

MRS DE SALIS 

AUTHOR OP THB 'X LA MODE* SBRIBS OF COOKERY BOOKS, ETC 



*Il /o manger t that's the French saying^ and manger tng is as 
necessary to me as it is to a Frenchman^ or more so* 

JOBLING, Bleak House 



EIGHTH IMPRESSION 



LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 

NEW YORK AND BOMBAY 

1903 

All rights reserved 






*1 1, ■ ,: 1 '■• f 



PREFACE 



TlilS little work is not intended as a CQokery book 
in the usual acceptance of the word ; it is merely 
what the title indicates, viz. a few tempting and in- 
expensive recipes within the scope of everybody's 
cookery, and which I have been induced to collect 
from many requests to do so. The plainest of 
general servants should be able to manage any of 
(iiese dishes, and so vary the meals of those families 
having small incomes, whose purses cannot afford 
entries, entremets, and savouries, and who would be 
glad to have relishing dishes now and then ; and 
there is no reason why they should be debarred 
from them, as so many can be made easily and in- 
expensively. 

A few persons have remarked that in my 
d la mode series of Cookery Books (which the 
public have kindly made so popular) many of 
the recipes are too extravagant for short purses, 
but I may mention that in those little volumes there 
are recipes of all kinds to suit all incomes. A 
recipe is often pronounced extravagant if the cook 
sees cream in it ; but any cook who knows some- 
thing of the culinary art would understand that a 
tablespoontul of cream goes a long way in entries 



vi TEMPTING DISHES. 

and savouries. Those little jugs of cream, price 
sixpence, sold everywhere now, are invaluable, and 
when opened they will keep quite fresh if placed 
in the cool and stood in cold water. If one of 
these is always kept in the house it will not, I 
think, be found an expensive luxury. 

For an illustration : I had the other day a friend 
or two to dinner, and one of these little jugs of cream 
sufficed to make six little cremes de volaille with 
the white sauce ; some was used for salad dressing, 
a tablespoonful in some soup, a little whipped over 
some apricot tartlets, and there was just eftough left 
for coffee. * A quart mould of cream may be made 
with one of the shilling jugfuls well whipped. To 
whip this thick cream a little milk must be added to 
it There is also the Cremain Company's cream, 
of Stockholm, which keeps for several days after 
being opened. 

For ordinary sweet dishes the best Swiss milk 
is always available ; two tablespoonfuls of it un- 
diluted will be found very effective instead of 
cream, and of course saves the sugar, as it is already 
sweetened. There are many little things that are 
great aids and boons in the kitchen, such as isin- 
glassine, used instead of gelatine, tomato vinegar for 
flavouring, also cruetteen, which is an inexpensive 
and first-rate condiment to heighten the flavour 
of soups, gravies, &c. ; and above all I advise 
most strongly those who have to buy new stew- 
pans, &c., to have Breden's patent nickel steel 
hoUowware ; it is so clean and so durable^ and is 
especially adapted to close ranges. I never my- 
self use the corrugated iron saucepans ; they wear 
out so constantly, and the generality of cooks knock 
them about so that they soon become unusable, and 



PREFACE vii 

they can never be relined, and are therefore unwhole- 
some. 

Upon all matters of cookeiy I shall be very 
pleased to give advice, and to explain any of the 
recipes in any of my books which may present 
difficulties to the cook, on receipt of a stamped 
directed envelope ; and if I can help the fine art of 
cookery, which cookery has become, by so doing I 
shall indeed have achieved a success. 



HARRIET A. DE SALI& 



Hampton Lea, Sutton, 
July 189a 



TEMPTING DISHES. 



Celery Soup. 

Take the white part of four heads of celery and cut 
into pieces an inch long and put them into a saucepan 
with two onions peeled and sliced thin, four ounces 
of lean ham cut into dice, and a pint of nicely 
flavoured white stock. Boil until the vegetables 
are sufficiently soft to pulp them, press them through 
a sieve, and return them to the saucepan ; add three 
pints more stock, two ounces of butter, a seasoning 
of salt, white pepper, and two tablespoonfuls. of 
flour which have been moistened to a thin smooth 
batter with a little cold stock or water. Boil again 
for half an hour, then skim if necessary, and add a 
teacupful of boiling cream or milk. 

Italian Soup. 

Cut the meat from a knuckle of veal ; break up 
the bones and make a broth of them ; take four or 
five slices of the lean of bacon (ham is better if 
handy) and lay them at the bottom of the stewpan, 
and upon them put the meat from the knuckle, with 
four carrots and three turnips sliced, a few pepper- 

B 



1 TEMPTING DISHES. 

corns, a large onion stuck with four cloves and some 
celery leaves (or celery seed) ; cover down closely, 
and stew till the gravy is drawn out and the vegeta- 
bles tender ; then pour over the broth made from the 
knuckle-bones and cover entirely. Add six spoon- 
fuls of rice and stew for four hours ; pass the soup 
through a sieve and add vermicelli before serving 

Kidney Soup. 

Cut about two pounds of ox-kidney into slices, 
and then into small neat pieces. Take some flour 
and season it well with salt and pepper ; roll the 
kidney in this, and then toss them in a little good 
beef dripping over the fire for ten minutes, then add 
a turnip, a carrot, the white part of one leek, one 
onion, and a little outer leaf of celery all cut up 
fine. To this add a quart and a half (or more) thin 
stock or cold water. Bring to the boil, then simmer 
very gently for an hour and a half to two hours, 
skim carefully, when it will be ready to be served. 
When celery is not in season use celery seed. 

Onion Soup. 

Take medium-sized onions, one large parsnip, 
one carrot, one small turnip, a few peppercorns, 
two cloves, half a teaspoonful of salt, a rasher of 
ham or bacon (lean), a little bit of celery, or the 
seed when celery is not in season, a pint of milk, 
and about a quart or a little more of stock. Pre- 
pare the vegetables in the usual way and cut them 
into very small pieces ; chop the ham and put all 
Into a large saucepan. Let all boil for a few minutes, 
throw in a little salt and skim thoroughly. In two 
hours the vegetables ought to be soft enough to 



TEMPTING DISHES. 3 

pass through a fine sieve with the assistance of the 
liquid ; then return to a clean saucepan with the 
milk and stir till boiling. If not sufficiently thick 
one tablespoonful of cornflour may be mixed with 
a little cold milk, added to the soup and boiled for 
five minutes. Serve with fried bread. 



Pur6e of Poultry or Game. 

Take any remains of roast or boiled poultry or 
game that there may be in the larder, carefully free 
from bones and skin ; put the latter into a sauce- 
pan with an onion, some mixed herbs (powdered) 
and a teaspoonful of white stock or water, and boil 
gently until the liquid is reduced to half the quan- 
tity. In the meantime chop the meat very finely 
and put into a mortar with a piece of fresh butter, 
and salt and pepper to taste, and pound it to a 
smooth paste, moistening it with a little of the 
liquor*from the bones, &c. Rub the paste through 
a fine sieve and put in the saucepan with the re- 
duced gravy strained and six tablespoonfuls of 
milk, and thicken with a mixture of cornflour cooked 
in butter. Stir over the fire till quite hot 

Potato Soup. 

Take two pounds of potatoes weighed after 
being washed and peeled, the outer sticks of some 
celery, and a good-sized onion. Cut all up small, 
and put into a saucepan with a heaped-up table- 
spoonful of fresh butter and a seasoning of salt 
and pepper. Cover the pan closely and stew over 
a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring 



4 TEMPTING DISHES. 

frequently to prevent their sticking or becoming 
coloured. Then pour over three pints of white 
stock and simmer all until the vegetables are soft, 
pass them through a fine sieve into a clean sauce- 
pan, add a little more salt if necessary, a breakfast- 
cupful of hot milk, and a large tablespoonful of 
minced parsley. Boil up at once and serve very 
hot 

Soup a la Russe. 

Make about a dozen or more very small force- 
meat balls, by mincing very finely half a pound of 
lean veal and three ounces of beef suet Put these 
into a mortar with a little salt, pepper, minced 
parsley, and a pinch of mixed herbs. Mix and 
pound these to a smooth paste, moisten with a 
well-beaten egg, and make this preparation up 
into the required number, of balls. Fry these \yell 
in a little boiling dripping, drain them, and put 
aside till required. Chop veiy finely three, small 
onions and one small cabbage, fry them in a sauce- 
pan with two ounces of butter till lightly coloured, 
then mix in as smoothly as possible two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Pour on it about two quarts of 
nicely flavoured stock and stir over the fire till the 
soup boils, draw the saucepan on one side and 
allow the contents to simmer gently for thirty 
minutes or till the vegetables are quite soft, cut a 
nice slice of cooked ham or lean bacon into small 
neat dice, and place them with the forcemeat balls 
at the bottom of the soup-tureen, pour over the 
boiling liquid and let it stand for five minutes, 
then stir the soup round and serve. A little finely 
chopped tarragon (if to be had) sprinkled in is an 
improvement 



TEMPTING DISHES. 5 

Sheep's Head Broth. 

Take out the brains and wash every part of 
the head well. Pierce the eyes and wash the skin 
well with the liquor which exudes from it Scrape 
out the holes where the eyes have been, then put 
the head and trotters in a tub of clean water with 
a little soda and salt. Let them soak for some 
hours, then take them out and scrape them well. 
Put diem into the pot with a gallon of water, a 
teacupful of green peas (when in season) and three- 
quarters of a teacupful of barley. Boil for three- 
quarters of an hour. Add half a turnip cut in 
slices, half a carrot, parsnip, and cabbage, cut very 
small. Boil for an hour ; add leeks, celerj', parsley 
cut small, and boil for another hour. 

Brodetto of Fish. 

Put some salad oil and some slices of onion 
into a saucepan, let the onion become a nice 
colour, then add some parsley and claret, or instead 
of claret some vinegar and water, and when it boils 
up add different kinds of fish. Season with pepper 
and salt, and let the whole simmer gently till done. 
Toast some slices of bread and place them in a deep 
dish and serve the fish with the sauce on them. 

Brochet of Smelts. 

Melt some butter and spread it on a dish, and 
dredge raspings of bread on it, season with pepper 
and salt, chopped parsley and shalots. Over the 
smelts pour a glass of wine (this can be omitted), 
a little Harvey and anchovy sauces, and some of 



6 TEMPTING DISHES. 

the above dressing of butter. Put them in the 
oven for a quarter of an hour, serve quite hot on 
a napkin and garnish with lemon and fried parsley. 

Eel au Gratin. 

Put some oyster sauce at the bottom of a pie- 
dish, then a layer of sliced eel, seasoned with 
pepper and a dash of nutmeg. Repeat the layers 
of fish and sauce till the dish is filled. Cover with 
fine bread-crumbs, put little tabs of butter here 
and there, and bake for half an hour. 

Eels Stewed. 

Cut the eels into pieces about three inches 
long ; stew them gently in a little broth or stock 
with a teaspoonful of sweet herbs. When tender 
remove the eels and strain the stock, season with 
a little pepper and salt and a dessertspoonful of 
ketchup ; and, if possible^ some port- wine dregs ; 
add also a little finely chopped parsley. Thicken 
the stock with a little brown thickening, skim off 
any fat, warm up the eels in the stock, and serve 
with some fried bread. 

Fish Quenelles. 

Remove all SKin and bones from any good cold 
fish ; pound say five ounces in a mortar till fine. 
Put the bones in a saucepan with a little water, 
pepper and salt, to make stock. When sufficiently 
done, strain it, and when cool soak in it two ounces 
of stale bread-crumbs, squeeze it out, stir over the 
fire in a small pan till dry without burning ; turn 
it into a basin and beat into it the yolk of an egg. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 7 

When cold mix the fish into it, add a little piece 
of butter, salt, pepper, a grate of a nutmeg, and one 
whole egg. Shape the mixture into ovals like egg^ 
with two tablespoons, and poach them in boiling 
water. Sauce can be served with them or not 

Haddock Souffles. 

Have some puflF paste patty cases, as for oyster 
patties, spread anchovy butter all round inside 
them, put in some dried haddocks, cut up ver>^ 
finely, and place on the top of each a cheese souffle 
mixture ; place in the oven and serve very quickly 
and hot. 

Mackerel with Black Butter. 

Take the mackerel and soak it for a couple of 
hours in oil, seasoned with pepper and salt, and 
then broil it, basting with the oil. For sauce melt 
a. tablespoonful of butter in a fryingpan till quite 
hot, fry some parsley in it and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar and two of stock ; boil up and pour over 
the mackerel, and serve very hot 

Mussels 2l la Rochelle. 

Steep some mussels in oiled butter with a little 
lemon-juice or tarragon vinegar, cayenne, and an 
idea of shalot, then roll them separately in fine 
bread-crumbs, next in beaten egg, and then again 
in bread-crumbs, and fry a golden yellow. 

Salmon (cold remains). 

Butter a stewpan and put in one or two small 
sliced onions and a handful of finely cut vegetables, 



8 TEMPTING DISHES. 

as used for Julienne soup. Lay in the salmon cut 
in steaks, add a gill of stock and a glass of white 
wine (but it can be well made without). Stew the 
fish in this gravy for half an hour or till it boils. 
Strain the gravy when the fish is lifted out and 
thicken with butter and flour, add some seasoning 
and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, which pour 
over the fish ; strew some capers over and serve. 

Fillets of Sole k TEspagnoIe. 

Bake the fillets for twenty minutes ; when cooked 
lay them flat on a dish and pour the following 
sauce over them : Cut up a Spanish onion in thin 
slices and mince it Fry the onion in butter till 
quite cooked without its taking colour, then add 
some tomatoes, which have been peeled and the 
pips removed (there should be double as much 
tomato as onion), add pepper, salt, and a little 
Nepaul pepper. Stir well on the fire till the 
mixture is dried up a little, but not too much. 
Make a heap of this on a dish, and round it arrange 
the fillets of sole. Strew a little finely minced 
parsley over all and serve. 

Sole au Gratin. 

Take a skinned sole, cut off" the fins, wash and 
dry it in a cloth. Prick it with a knife both sides, 
take a sprig of parsley, half a shalot and mush- 
rooms, chop them all up finely, butter a baking- 
tin and sprinkle half the chopped-up mixture over 
it, lay the sole on it, sprinkle in the remainder over 
it, and add a squeeze of lemon-juice and one ounce 
of butter cut into, small pieces, and over all two 



TEMPTING DISHES. 9 

tablespoonfuls of glaze ; put the dish in the oven 
for twenty minutes to half an hour, and then 
sprinkle over it some brown bread-crumbs and 
serve. 

Fillets of Sole k ritalienne. 

Bake the fillets for twenty minutes, lay them 
flat on a dish and pour the following sauce over 
them : Mince a couple of shalots quite fine and fry 
them to a pale straw colour, add two or three 
mushrooms finely minced, a little chopped parsley 
and the liquor in which the fillets were cooked. 
Let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, add a 
little salt and pepper, melt a small piece of butter 
in a saucepan and mix with it a little flour. Turn 
the sauce into this, let it give one boil up and it is 
ready. 

Fillets of Sole k la Reine. 

Take some fillets of sole, spread them on one 
side with a layer of stuffing made of bread-crumbs, 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt and cayenne, and a 
little beaten egg. Roll up the fillets of sole and tie 
each one round with tape, boil them in water with 
a little salt till tender, drain them and put them 
aside. 

Make a white sauce with a little stock thickened 
with flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold 
milk, add a small lump of butter, two cloves, pepper 
and salt, and a dust of coralline pepper ; let this 
simmer till flavoured ; strain, put back in the 
saucepan, add a spoonful of raw cream and the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Put the cooked fillets of 
sole in this sauce to get quite hot, but it must not 
boil after the cream and egg are added. Remove 



10 TEMPTING DISHES. 

the tape carefully, and dish the fillets set upright 
with the sauce round them. 



Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms. 

Take a piece of rumpsteak, cut it in slices three- 
eighths of an inch thick and trim them to shape and 
size of a mutton cutlet. Melt some butter into a 
baking-tin, lay the fillets in this, and let them stand in 
a warm place for an hour or two. Then take them 
out and fry them in a very hot butter or good drip- 
ping, turning them so as to let both sides colour. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter and mix it with 
a tablespoonful of flour. Moisten with some good 
stock free from fat, add a little colouring (Parisienne 
is best and cheap) and about half a basketful of 
button mushrooms neatly trimmed and washed. 
Let the sauce cook till the mushrooms are done, 
add the juice of half a lemon, pour the sauce on 
the dish, heap the mushrooms in the centre and 
arrange the fillets round in a crown shape. 

Hashed Beef with Tomato Sauce. 

Make a tomato sauce by removing the pips 
from each tomato and the watery substance, put 
them into a saucepan with plenty of butter, pepper, 
salt, a bayleaf and some thyme, add a few spoon- 
fuls of either stock or gravy, keep stirring over the 
fire till all is reduced to a pulp, when it should be 
passed through a sieve and allowed to get cold. Cut 
thin slices of roast beef, which should be underdone, 
trim them as near as possible to the same size, lay 
them in a saucepan, sprinkle pepper and salt over 
and pour on the cold sauce. Put the saucepan 



TEMPTING DISHES, it 

over a gentle fire and let the contents become 
slowly hot, then serve and garnish "with fried sippets 
round the dish. 

Beefsteak Pudding. 

Make a paste of six ounces of chopped suet and 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, butter a pudding- 
basin and line it with the suet Flatten some 
rumpsteak and cut it into small pieces, also some 
ox-kidney. Put a good handful of flour on a 
board, well pepper and salt it, then roll each piece 
of steak and kidney in it, add some stock, cover 
with paste, tie it over with a buttered and floured 
cloth and boil for four hours. 

Stewed Beefsteak. 

Brown one pound of steak slightly in a fryingpan, 
then place it in a stewpan with a carrot, a turnip, 
and a large onion all sliced ; cover the meat with 
sufficient stock. Let it stew vety gently and 
sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it before 
serving. Thicken the gravy with a little butter 
and flour and add a few port-wine dregs, a little 
mushroom catsup and Worcester sauce, and send 
to table with it carrots and turnips cut into shapes 
and cooked in stock. 

Beef Trifles. 

Take a pound of cold roast beef, mince it very 
finely, then put it into a basin and mix with it a 
seasoning of salt and pepper, three ounces of melted 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of finely grated horse- 
radish, six tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs 
and a teaspoonful of minced onion. Mix these 



12 TEMPTING DISHES. 

ingredients thoroughly, then moisten well with 
beaten eggs. Put the mixture into small well- 
buttered cups or moulds, bake in a moderate oven 
for twenty minutes, then turn out and garnish with 
sprigs of fresh parsley and serve with or without 
horseradish sauce. 

Boned Leg of Mutton. 

After removing the bone from the mutton 
make some parsley forcemeat with bread-crumbs, a 
little lean bacon, two shalots, and fill up the hole 
where the bone was taken from, cut away any extra 
fat, and sew it up. Bind it and tie up compactly 
and roast with great care. Remove the binding 
and serve with good thick brown gravy. 

Calf's Brains and Black Butter. 

Soak the brains in vinegar and water and put 
in a little piece of thyme. Fry some round pieces 
of bread for about twenty minutes. Place some o{ 
the brains, after draining them, on each piece of 
fried bread, make a little hole in each piece of brain 
and place a piece of red tongue in each. Pour black 
butter over and serve. The black butter is made by 
taking one ounce of butter and melting it in a frying- 
pan till it turns a rich brown colour, then add half a 
teaspoonful of chopped capers, half a teaspoonful of 
Harvey sauce, and the same quantity of mushroom 
catsup and a little pepper. This can be used 
thickened if preferred. 

Calf's Head Fritters. 

Cut some slices from a calf s head (cold) and mask 
with tomato sauce, dip them into batter and fry a nice 
golden colour. Serve crisped parsley as a garnish. 



TEMPTING DISHES 13 

Chicken Cutlets. 

Trim the remains of a cold roast or boiled fowl 
into nice cutlets. Cut pieces of bread the same size 
and shape. Fry the bread to a pale brown in 
butter and put in the oven with the door open to 
keep warm. Dip the cutlets in melted butter 
mixed with the beaten yolk of an ^g^y roll in 
bread-crumbs, season with salt and pepper, and fry 
for five minutes. Serve each cutlet on a piece of 
fried bread. 

Fried Chicken. 

Cut a chicken into pieces, lay it in salt and 
vvrater, which should be changed several times. 
Roll each piece of chicken in flour and fry in very 
hot butter or clarified dripping. Season with 
pepper and salt and a trifle of cayenne, and serve 
hot 

Croustades of Chicken. 

Pick the remains of a cold boiled chicken free 
from bones and skin and pound thoroughly with a 
third of its quantity of white sauce, season with salt 
and pepper, and pass through a wire sieve. Work 
this in a stewpan with half a gill of cream over the 
fire with a wooden spoon till it is hot and light ; if 
it should be too soft stir in the yolk of an egg ; 
fill the croustade case and cover the top with hard 
boiled yolk of egg passed through a wire sieve, on 
which sprinkle a little chopped parsley. Garnish 
round with crisped parsley. Make the croustade 
case with two ounces of flour, the yolk of an ^g'g and 
a pinch of salt worked into a smooth paste with cold 
water, roll out these, and then stamp out as many 



!4 TEMPTING DISHES. 

rounds as possible with a good-sized plain cutter, 
gather up the rough pieces and make them into a 
ball. Now roll out one of the rounds of paste 
much thinner and place it in the mould, dip the 
ball of dough into flour and press it in the lined 
mould, trim off rough edges, remove the ball and 
fill with rice that has been mixed with a third part 
suet. Fill as many croustades as required and bake 
them a pale colour. 

Stewed Duck. 

Cut a duck into joints and fry a light brown in 
butter. Put them in a stewpan with half a pint of 
gravy, a couple of large onions, a little salt, parsley, 
two sage leaves, and a sprig of marjoram. Cover 
and stew till tender. Remove the onions and herbs, 
add a little pepper ; skim ; mix a little flour into the 
gravy, stir and boil. 

Curried Eggs. 

Fry two sliced onions in butter, then add a 
tablespoonful of curry powder, and fry this also for 
a minute or two ; then pour the whole into a stew- 
pan with a pint of broth. Let all stew till the 
onion is perfectly tender, then mix a small cup of 
cream (or milk thickened with arrowroot and 
slightly sweetened, or a cup of cocoanut milk), and 
simmer all together for five minutes. Cut six 
hard-boiled eggs into quarters and let them heat 
thoroughly, but do not let them boil ; run the sauce 
through a hair sieve before putting in the eggs. 

Egg Cutlets. 

Boil hard six eggs, and when cold and shelled 
cut them into rather thick slices ; dip each slice 



TEMPTING DISHES. 15 

into beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and minced parsley ; fry them a light 
brown, and do not let them lie in the fryingpan an 
instant after they are cooked. Drain them free 
from fat and lay them on a very hot dish, arranged 
neatly, and pour some boiling gravy over them. 

Egg Kromeskies. 

Poach three eggs in water a little salted, with 
a tablespoonful of vinegar in it ; drain the eggs, 
sprinkle them with a little salt, pepper, and a dust 
of nutmeg. Dip them in batter and fry in boiling 
lard for one minute only. 

Epigram of Lamb and Peas. 

Place a breast of lamb in a stewpan, with a 
little water, three onions, one carrot, some outer 
sticks of celery, a little pepper, salt, parsley, and 
sweet herbs to taste. When cooked enough to 
allow it, pull out all the bones and put the breast 
between two dishes with a heavy weight on it. 
When cold cut it into small cutlets, egg and bread- 
crumb them, fry them a nice colour, and serve 
with some peas in the centre of the dish, or, if pre- 
ferred, a pur^e made by boiling a pint of peas in 
salt and water, a slice of onion, a sprig of parsley, 
and a few mint leaves. When cooked pass it 
through a sieve and moisten with some stock, put it 
into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and work it 
over the fire till quite hot 

Haricot Mutton. 

Cut up part of a best end of neck of mutton into 
chops, or the whole if required ; trim off most of the 



i6 TEMPTING DISHES. 

fat from the chops and fry them a delicate brown ; 
just flour them slightly before frying, and then 
put them into the saucepan ; fry a large carrot, cut 
in slices a turnip, a parsnip, two onions, add a stick 
or two of celery or some celery seed, and a handful 
of parsley. Season well with salt and pepper and 
a little mushroom catsup or Worcester sauce, and 
place them over the meat ; add some boiling stock 
to cover, and let them simmer very gently for a 
couple of hours. Then take up the meat and 
vegetables, cut the latter up small, and place it in 
a deep dish. Thicken the gravy with a little flour 
and butter, pour it over the meat and serve very 
hot 

Kidney Fritters. 

Make a breakfast-cupful of nice frying battei, 
and stir in a tablespoonful of finely minced onion, 
a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, and a small pinch of 
cayenne. Take half-a-dozen sheep's kidneys, re- 
move the skin, and cut each one into three or four 
slices ; season these with a little salt, dip them 
into the batter — which ought to be thick enough to 
stick to the meat — and fry in boiling fat till suffi- 
ciently cooked and coloured a nice brown ; drain 
well and serve piled up with a little parsley 
powdered over the top and a few sprigs of parsley 
placed round about. 

Stewed Ox-Kidney. 

Cut the kidney into pieces about the size of 
half a sheep's kidney ; brown the outside quickly 
in a fryingpan with a very little fat or butter ; 
then place them in some good dark gravy to stew 
very gently. Fry a few small onions in the frying- 



TEMPTING DISHES. t? 

pan, after JDrowp^ng. the outside of the kidneys, till 
the oniqtiis..j^e5nice, and brown, and then add these 
to^the stewi^^liidneys ; season with pepper and 
.salt. .Ti>esj? jcannot be stewed too gently or slowly ; 
they :m,i^s]fM.Qi;}np account boil or they will be 
spoilt 

Stewed Kidneys. 

Sine ^^ ■ 

Skin and parboil kidneys, simmer till tender; 
slice, and foss them in a saucepan with butter : 
add pepper and salt and a slight dredging of flour. 
When the flour is well amalgamated with the butter, 
moisten with a little stock ; add wine, a little 
minced parsley, and a few drops of Worcester 
sauce. Let the whole simmer a few minutes and 
serve. 

It takes about an hour and a half to simmer the 
kidneys. 

Kidnejrs and Tomatoes. 

Throw three kidneys in boiling water ; having 
skinned and split them open, pepper and salt them. 
Slice four tomatoes and put them into a saucepan, 
with a sliced onion, a gill of stock, salt and pepper, 
, and stew for fifteen minutes. Put a quarter of a 
pound of butter or dripping in a fryingpan; put in 
the kidney and later the tomatoes, and fry. Pour 
into a buttered pie-dish, cover with bread-crumbs 
and egg over, and place in oven for ten minutes. 

Kromeskies. 

Take some pieces of meat or poultry and mix 
them with good brown sauce that is firm when 
cold ; fold up a small quantity of this in a slice of 
fat bacon, which must be cut as thin as possible 

c 



f« TEMPTING DISITES. 

and the ends closed, so that the^ 5auce cannot 
escape whilst the kromeskies ace^fi-ied. After 
wrapping them in the bacon Avp^^iStikm^'itito batter 
and fry to a nice golden colotl^;^. Then- arrange 
them on a dish in a pyramid and servife?with fried 
parsley. 

Lamb Cutlets au Parmesan. 

Take the best end of a neck of laitib, take six 
cutlets and partly fry them, then steep them in a 
sauce made of two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, in 
which is mixed four spoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and then coat them twice over with ^gg and 
bread-crumbs, make the surface very smooth and 
even, fry them a golden brown, dish them up in a 
circle and garnish with fried parsley. 

Lamb's Fry. 

Parboil the sweetbreads. Throw them into 
cold water, and when cold trim them. Flour all 
the pieces and fry in the fryingpan in a little 
dripping or in the fat of the fried bacon, which 
should be served with the fry. When nicely 
browned pour a little water into the dripping-pan 
and thicken it with a little flour. Throw in a little 
chopped parsley and season with pepper and salt ; 
it takes about ten minutes to fry. 

Lamb's Head Curry. 

Put a cleansed lamb's head in a stewpan with 
sufficient water to cook it, having previously 
blanched it Let it stew slowly till the meat falls 
from the bones. When cool cut it into small 



TEMPTING DISHES. 19 

pieces. Fry a small onion in two ounces of butter 
to a light brown, add a tablespoonful of curry 
powder and half a spoonfyl of curry paste ; mix all 
together with half a pint of good gravy or stock, put 
in the meat and let it stew gently for half an hour. 
Stew the brains in water five minutes, chop them 
very fine, mixing with them a handful of bread- 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
bind together with an ^ggy and make them into 
small round balls ; egg and bread-crumb, then fry a 
pale brown ; serve the curry with the balls round 
and boiled rice served separately. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

Take all the meat from the lobster and cut it 
up in little pieces, with a small piece of onion, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of 
anchovy sauce, a dust of cayenne and a piece of 
thin lemon-peel the size of the thumbnail ; pound 
all in a mortar till smooth, and mix in sufficient 
lobster butter to make the whole a bright red, 
then add butter till the mixture can be easily 
moulded; after moulding, flour them, then egg 
and bread-crumb them till of a delicate brown ; 
stick in each a little piece of the tips of the small • 
claws to represent a cutlet bone ; serve with fried 
parsley in the centre. Lobster butter is made by 
pounding the spawn with some butter in the mortar. 

Lobster Pancakes. 

Divide a lobster into as nice pieces as possible, 
dip each into good frying butter, adding to it a 
little cayenne pepper and a few drops of essence 
of anchovies. Fry in hot fat as quickly as possible. 

C2 



ao TEMPTING DISHES. 

Macaroni Quenelle. 

Take one ounce of macaroni, four ounces of 
bread-crumbs, two eggs, half a pint of milk, a tea- 
spoonful of minced parsley, a pinch of mixed herbs, 
a dust of cayenne and salt to taste, two ounces of 
melted butter, and two spoonfuls of chopped ham ; 
boil the macaroni till cooked, cut it into small 
pieces, boil the milk and pour on the bread-crumbs 
and soak for five minutes, add the macaroni, herbs, 
eggs, melted butter and ham, steam in a well- 
buttered basin for an hour, and serve with brown 
mushroom sauce over it 

Meat Fritters. 

Take any remains of a chicken or veal, or even 
mutton or lamb, mince very finely ; season highly 
with onion, chopped parsley, and a little mixed 
sweet herbs. Make all this into a liquid state by 
mixing it in a little pale stock and milk, then place 
this mixture into a soup plate and let it get cold 
and set into a firm jelly. Cut little pieces out 
about an inch and a half in diameter, flour them 
well, dip them into batter, and then plunge them 
into smoking'liot fat These are also very good 
made with calf's liver, seasoned with shalot or 
garlic, for those who do not object to the flavour. 

Meat Toast 

Take any sort of meat that has been ser\:ed at 
table, cut it into small square pieces, and make a 
well- thickened ragout of it ; when cold, put in the 
yolks of two raw eggs, arrange the meat upon some 



TEMPTING DISHES. ^t 

crumb of bread, and draw a knife dipped in a beaten 
egg over it. Grate some bread upon tlie whole, 
f«y, and serve with clear sauce. 

Mushroom Cutlets. 

Remove the peel and stalk from a dozen large 
mushrooms, scrape out the gills, wash and chop 
them fine, mix with them sufficient good sauce to 
bind them together, add a little chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper, the yolks of two raw eggs, and 
place on the stove in a saucepan to come to boil- 
ing-point without actually boiling ; turn the mixture 
on to a plate to cool. When wanted, divide this 
into six or eight equal portions with the aid of a 
palette-knife, add a little flour and form them into 
cutlets ; then egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish 
them in a circle with a few peas in the centre and 
white mushroom sauce round. 

Mutton Collops. 

Chop some parsley and one shalot, and get 
small thin slices, about two inches square, from 
the chump end of a loin of mutton. Fry the 
collops alone, till brown on both sides, in a stew- 
pan with one ounce of dissolved butter. The fire 
should be brisk, and the collops turned up and 
down in the butter. When done take them out, 
put in the parsley and shalot, add a little more 
butter, and stew for five minutes. Then add a 
tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of catsup, 
a little stock, and the juice of half a lemon. Put 
in the collops, make them hot but do not boil them; 
pour the sauce over and serve with potato balls. 



22 TEMPTING DISHES. 

Mutton-Chops aux Legumes. 

Trim some mutton-chops and set them to stew 
gently over the fire, with a slice of butter, a bunch 
of parsley, and green onions, two or three cloves, 
and a little bit of garlic ; moisten the whole with 
a tumbler of stock and the same quantity of claret, 
adding a carrot and a slice of ham. When done 
skim off the fat and serve the chops with the 
sauce, the ham and the roots. Garlic and wine 
may always be omitted when not liked. 

Mutton-Chops k la Marini^re. 

Take some loin chops, rather short and thick, 
put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter 
about the size of an egg, turning them a few times 
over the fire till they are rather brown, then moisten 
with a large glass of claret and as much stock, 
adding a dozen small white onions. Let the whole 
boil half an hour over a slow fire, then add two 
rashers of streaky bacon, a carrot and a parsnip cut 
into bits, a small bunch of fine herbs, some chopped 
parsley, pepper, salt, and a sprinkling of vinegar. 
When the chops are done, and the sauce nearly 
consumed, dish them for table with the onions 
round and the pieces of bacon, &c. 

Mutton-Chops en Robe de Chambre. 

Put some mutton-chops in a fair quantity of 
stock, adding a bunch of parsley and green onions. 
When the chops are done, take them out, skim 
the fat off the stock, strain, and reduce it to a thick 
gravy, putting in the chops again for the gravy to 



TEMPTING DISHES. 25 

adhere to them, then take them out and leave 
them to cool. Make a forcemeat with a little 
piece of fillet of veal, a little bit of beef, two eggs, 
salt, pepper, parsley, and onions cut small and 
moistened with milk; cover each chop with the 
forcemeat, grate bread over them, and put them 
into the oven to brown. When they are a good 
colour drain off the fat and serve with good clear 
gravy. 

Onions St TEtoile. 

Take a large Spanish onion, core it with the 
column cutter, then cut it down within two inches 
of the bottom in divisions like an orange, so that 
it has somewhat the appearance of a star. Make 
a mince of beef or mutton in the usual way, flavour 
it highly, and fill in the onion with it, tying the 
onion round till it is cooked to prevent the mince 
falling out Make a hole in the centre of the 
mince and put some carrots and turnips, cut in 
Julienne strips made with a brown sauce, in which 
a little isinglassine has been mixed. When it is 
cooked cut the string and dish up with a mush- 
room pur^e round it 

Pigeons en Capote. 

Take the number of pigeons required, clean, 
truss, and stuff them with a mixture made of the 
chopped livers, parsley, butter, and a few bread- 
crumbs. Place them in a stewpan with two or 
three slices of bacon, and stew gently for three- 
quarters of an hour. Thicken the gravy, and add 
a couple of tablespoonfuls each of mushroom 
catsup and port-wine (the port-wine may be 
omitted). Use stock to stew them in. 



24 TEMPTING DISHES. 

Potato Cutlets. 

Put some cold boiled potatoes into a basin, 
beat them to a smooth pulp, and to every pound 
add one ounce of warmed butter, salt, pepper, and 
a tablespoonful each of minced parsley and finely 
chopped onion, and one well-beaten Qgg. Mix all 
these together thoroughly, and then allow the 
mixture to get quite cold, then make it up into 
neat cutlet shapes. Brush over with beaten egg 
and coat thickly with grated cheese, and fry in 
the usual way. When just delicately browned, 
drain very carefully and arrange the cutlets in 
two rows down the middle of a hot dish, one 
cutlet slightly overlapping the other. Garnish with 
parsley and serve hot 

Rabbit Batter Pudding. 

Place at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish two 
rabbits cut into pieces, season and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley and shalot, cover this with a layer 
of streaky bacon, fill up with batter and bake. 

Minced Rabbit 

Take the remains of a roasted rabbit, cut off 
all the meat and mince it with a little roast mutton. 
Break the bones of the rabbit into small pieces 
and put them into a stewpan with a slice of butter, 
two shalots, a very small piece of garlic, thyme, 
and a bayleaf ; turn all this a few times over the 
fire, then shake in a little flour ; moisten with a 
glass of light claret and as much stock, and let it 
boil half an hour over the fire ; strain it off and 



TEMPTING DISHES. «5 

put in the mincemeat, with salt and pepper ; let 
the whole heat without boiling, and serve hot ; 
garnish with fried sippets. The claret, of course, 
can be left but when not required. 

Rabbit Jl la Poulette. 

Joint a young rabbit and put it into a stew- 
pan with sufficient stock to cover it Season with 
a h'ttle parsley, some sweet herbs, two small onions, 
and if possible a few mushrooms. Let it boil up 
in a few minutes, then draw it aside and let it 
simmer very gently for an hour ; remove the meat, 
strain the liquor and beat it briskly up, and add it 
to the rabbit ; garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. 

Rabbit a la Tartare. 

Have a rabbit boned, cut it in pieces, put it to 
steep for an hour with an onion, some parsley, a 
few mushrooms and chives, all chopped finely ; add 
pepper and salt to taste and a few drops of oil, 
then dip each piece of rabbit in egg and bread- 
crumbs and broil. 

Ragouts for an Entree. 

Take some small dariole tins and line them 
thinly with batter made with a quarter pound of 
Vienna flour, two eggs, and rather more than a table- 
spoonful of salad oil ; mix into a paste with a good 
half tumbler of cold water and see that the batter is 
smooth and not lumpy. Fry these in a saucepan 
with plenty of fat in it, and not too hot when the 
moulds are first put in. They must be done one at a 
time, and as soon as the cup is put into the grease it 



26 TEMPTING DISHES: 

should be twisted round and round with a knifSe. 
When cooked the batter mould will easily slip out 
Brush the outside of the cases with the white of 
an egg and sprinkle over a little finely chopped 
parsley or coralline pepper. Fill the moulds with 
any kind of white meat cut- up in dice shapes and 
mixed with white sauce ; a few button mushrooms 
cut up and mixed in is an improvement. 

Risotto. 

Parboil some well-washed rice in boiling water 
for five minutes, draining and drying it on a clothe 
then fry it a light brown with a little chopped onion 
and butter, and stew it till tender in enough 
well-seasoned soup to cover it well. It must be 
watched very closely, and the saucepan must be 
shaken to prevent burning. When done put it into 
a buttered mould with shreds of cold chicken, 
tongue or ham well shaken down, dust it with 
grated cheese, and brown it in the oven ; or slices of 
mushrooms or a little tomato sauce are used as 
variations from the tongue or chicken. 

Roulades of Mutton. 

Remove the fillet from a loin of mutton, trim 
away all skin and fat Flatten the fillet with the 
cutlet-bat and cut it lengthways into slices as 
thin as possible ; divide these into neat pieces three 
inches long. Sprinkle each with pepper and salt 
and finely chopped parsley ; roll them up tightly, 
dip into beaten egg and then into bread-crumbs 
mixed with an equal quantity of flour and highly 
seasoned with pepper and salt Place each roulade 



TEMPTING DISHES. 37 

on a skewer (three or (bur on each skewer) and 
cook them in one ounce of butter in a fryingpan. 

Rumpsteak ^ la Bonne-Bouche* 

Rub a thick steak with salt, pepper and mustard, 
flour. Put some butter into a fryingpan, and 
when it is boiling put the steak in and cook 
with a few sticks of celery cut small and about 
eight mushrooms; a good thick slice of onion 
and one little tiny piece of garlic should be put 
into the pan merely to lend its flavour. Fry all 
very quickly ; after taking it up remove the grease 
and add one tablespoonful of well-smoothed flour, 
two of Harvey sauce, one teaspoonful of bovril 
melted in ateacupful of boiling water ; stir well the 
whole time and let it have a good boil up ; serve 
the same separately. 

Sausage Pudding. 

Make a suet crust and line a greased pudding- 
basin with it and All the basin with sausages and a 
very little water, put on the cover, press the sides 
close, wet and flour the pudding-cloth and cover 
the pudding, &c., and boil one hour and a half. 

Savoury Moulds. 

Mince half a pound of underdone beef or mutton 
as finely as possible and put it into a basin with half 
its weight in bread-crumbs, one ounce of butter 
broken into small pieces, a tablespoonful of finely 
minced onion, a teaspoonful of mixed powdered 
herbs and a good seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Mix these ingredients thoroughly, moisten with 



26. TEMPTING DISHES. 

beaten egg and fill in some *small, well-butterefd 
moulds ; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, 
and turn out carefully ; insert a small ^rig of pars- 
ley in the top of each and pour a little brown gravy 
round. 

Sheep's Brains Roasted. 

Prepare the brains by soaking in cold water 
with a little salt for half an hour, remove the caul 
or skin which envelops them very gently, leave 
them in fresh water a little longer ; they should be 
simmered in about a pint of water, seasoned with a 
tablespoonful of vinegar, a clove of garlic, bayleaf, 
thyme and half a teaspoonful of sugar, pepper and 
salt When the brains are done drain and dry 
them, cut each one in half lengthways, brush over 
with yolk of egg and roll them in fine bread-crumbs 
seasoned with minced parsley, then sprinkle them 
with clarified butter and bread-crumbs again. Put 
each piece of brain on a small slice of bacon, place 
them in a baking-dish and set them in a well- 
heated oven for about half an hour, basting oc- 
casionally. When nicely browned lay the slices of 
bacon on toast, put the brains on the top of the 
bacon and serve with tomato sauce in a tureen. 

This is a very tasty and economical dish, as 
brains are very cheap. 

Sheep's Head au Gratin. 

Remove the brains and put the head in water, 
Iiaving blanched it previously ; bring it slowly to 
the boil, throw away the water, and again cover the 
head with fresh water ; then add a faggot of herbs, 



TEMPTING DISHES. 29 

an onion, carrot, celery, one or two each of cloves, all- 
spice, and peppercorns, and any trimmings of bacon, 
and let it simmer very gently for two hours, when 
it should be done enough for the bones to slip out 
easily, take it up, remove the bones, and skin the 
tongue. Place the head on a greased baking-tin 
with the tongue upright in the centre; sprinkle 
with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a very 
little scraped onion and shalot ; cover thickly with 
bread-crumbs, putting pieces of butter here and 
there, pour very little of the broth round, and bake 
till the crumbs are quite brown. Meanwhile, wash 
and skin the brains, boil them quickly in a little 
broth, drain and cut each piece in two, flour them, 
egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat Make a sauce 
by slicing an onion into a stewpan with a piece of 
butter ; fry till brown ; mix in a spoonful of flour, 
add a cupful of the broth and one of brown gravy ; 
stir till it boils, ad^ a tablespoonful of sharp sauce, 
strain, and mix in a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, pour round the head and garnish with 
fried brains. 

Tomato Curry. 

Bake some large tomatoes and pass them 
through a sieve; add a tablespoonful of finely 
minced onions, a pinch of garlic, and some good 
curry powder ; add enough stock or water to moisten 
the whole. As the water or stock reduces, add 
more till the whole is well cooked, when remove 
and serve very hot It is not necessary tp serve 
rice with it 

Tongue Pie. 

Take equal parts of cold tongue and cold poultry. 
JLine an earthenware baking-dish with good pie- 



30 TEMPTING DISHES. 

crust, put the two meats into it in layers, seasoning 
each layer lightly with salt and pepper ; when the 
dish is full add sufficient cold gravy of any kind to 
moisten the meat ; put an upper crust on it ; cut a 
few slits in the upper crust to allow the steam to 
escape, and brush it over with melted butter. Bake 
in a moderate oven for an hour and serve either 
hot or cold. 

Milanese Timbale. 

Cook some macaroni in good beef gravy, drain 
it in a colander, place it in a warmed dish, and mix 
with some grated Gruyfere cheese. Prepare a 
sauce with a few tomatoes, in which mix two or 
three mushrooms, forcemeat balls, and shelled 
shrimps. Make a light dough, line the bottom 
and sides of a round mould after greasing it with 
fresh butter, then put in a layer of macaroni, a 
layer of the prepared sauce, and so on till the 
mould is full. Pour a little beef gravy on the whole, 
and place the mould long enough in the oven to 
bake the paste; turn it out of the mould and 
serve either with tomato or brown sauce round it. 

Tripe it la Fran9aise. 

Take a pound of fresh tripe, cut it into pieces 
about two inches square, put them into a stewpan 
with enough good veal broth or light stock to cover 
them, and let them simmer gently from four to 
four and a half hours, or until the tripe is perfectly 
tender. Put into another stewpan two or three 
button mushrooms chopped, a little chopped parsley, 
a small onion minced, part of a bayleaf, a little 
pepper and salt, and a gill of white sauce. Stir 
these over a gentle fire till the mushrooms becomie 



TEMPTING DISHES. %\ 

►tender, and then add half a pint of veal broth or 
any pale broth. Let the same boil until it is 
perfectly smooth, then pour it over the tripe and 
serve, 

Fritot de Cervelle de Veau. 

Blanch the brains, and when cold they must be 
cut in slices as neatly as possible, seasoned with a 
little eschalot and parsley finely chopped and a 
little salad oil ; then dip into batter and fry till a 
nice golden colour. 

Veal Mould 

Slice evenly any cold roast veal, put a layer of 
this at the bottom of a pie-dish ; season with pepper 
and a little finely shreded lemon-rind. Next put on 
a layer of sliced cold boiled bacon or ham. Boil 
four eggs hard, and when cold slice and fill the dish 
with alternate layers of veal, ham, and eggs. Steep 
half an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water, and 
then add three-quarters of a pint of good stock 
flavoured with beef extract and lemon-juice. Boil 
till quite dissolved, and pour over the meat hot, but 
not boiling. Turn out when cold. — Caterer. 

Vinaigrette of Fish. 

Take any cold fish ; heap the pieces without any 
bones or skin with them in a mound in the centre 
of a platter. Chop two boiled eggs, the yolks and 
whites separately, and arrange first a border of 
chopped yolks, then a border of chopped whites 
around the fish, finally add a wreath of capers 
about an inch from the eggs and serve the fish 
with a vinaigrette sauce, made by mixing a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, one of salt, and half a one 



32 TEMPTING DISHES. 

of mustard to a paste and gradually adding vinegar 
enough to make half a cupful. When mixed add 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil and beat the whole 
very thoroughly. This same may be used with 
cold meat also.. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Take three ounces of flour, two eggs, a little 
over a gill of milk, two ounces of beef dripping, 
quarter of an ounce of Cowan's baking-powder; 
mix the flour, eggs, milk, and baking-powder to- 
gether ; add a pinqh of salt ; put the dripping into 
a baking-tin, and place it in the oven to get hot ; 
then pour in the batter and cook either in front of 
the fire under meat which is being roasted, or else 
in a quick oven. In the oven it takes from fifteen 
to twenty minutes to cook, but much longer if put 
under the meat 



TEMPTING DISHES. 53 

Apple Comp6te. 

Cut up and boil six apples in one pint of water 
till soft ; drain, and add to the juice a cup of sugar 
and a little lemon-rind ; boil one minute, add six 
more apples, cored and pared, and cook till tender. 
Then remove and fill the cores with orange marma- 
lade. Boil the syrup to a jelly and pour over. 

Apples St TEnfance. 

Peel some apples and cut them into quarters, 
remove the cores and cook them in syrup till 
tender. When cooked mix them with stiffly 
whipped cream and place them in a pile on the 
dish, garnish the cream with some of the quarters 
of the apples, and ornament with crystallised 
cherries ; if possible, stand the dish on ice. 

Apple Fritters. 

Peel some apples; cut them into rather thin 
slices and cut the core out of each slice, forming a 
ring. Take a little castor sugar, squeeze a drop or 
two of lemon-juice on each apple slice, and then 
press them on to the sugar on each side ; dip into 
some batter and fry in hot fat When they become 
a nice delicate brown take them out and dry them. 
Shake some white castor sugar over them and pile 
them high on a dish. 

It is a good plan to put a finger through the 
hole in the ring whilst throwing them into the fat 
in order to keep the ring shape. Batter should be 
a mixture of flour and milk, made about as thick 
as double cream, and it should be very smooth ; 
and the fat should be very hot into which it is 
thrown. To make an extra good batter, add 

D 



34 TEMPTING DISHES. 

half a pint of water to sufficient flour to make it 
the required thickness and then work in the yolk 
of an egg, and just before using the batter the 
white of the egg stiffly whisked should be added 

Apple Fritters. 

Peel some apples, cut them in rings and stamp 
out the cores ; sprinkle a little very finely grated 
lemon-rind over them, also a little castor sugar and 
a little rum, and let them remain with this on them 
for an hour, and then dip into the prepared batter 
before frying them. 

Albert Sandwiches 

Take three eggs ; a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut ; a little grated cheese ; a little salt ; and a 
dust of cayenne pepper. Put all into a saucepan 
and stir over the fire till it thickens ; cut some round 
pieces of bread, fry them in butter and spread the 
paste over them, and sprinkle a little grated tongue 
or ham over them before serving. 

Banana Fritters. 

Peel and cut each banana in half lengthwise ; 
sprinkle a little finely chopped lemon-peel over 
them, and a little rum (the Liquid Sunshine rum is 
the best). Then dip the bananas in batter; fry 
them, and dust them with powdered sugar. 

Batter Puddings. 

Take six ounces of flour ; add a saltspoonful of 
salt and sugar to taste ; moisten with a pint of 
milk ; mix till smooth and free from lumps ; then 
beat up separately two eggs ; strain the eggs and 



jTEMPTING dishes. 35 

the milk and mix it quickly ; while this is doing 
put one- tablespoonful of beef dripping into a tin, 
and when it is very hot pour in the batter, and 
bake for an hour and a half. The batter before the 
eggs are added should be of the consistence of 
thick cream. Put the tin in the hottest part of the 
oven for an hour, then remove it to a cooler part 
to cook thoroughly through in another half-hour. 
Serve with meat or gravy. 

Carrot Pudding. 

Grate two cupfuls of carrots ; add to this one 
and a half cupfuls of finely chopped suet ; four of 
moist sugar; eight of flour; half a pound of 
chopped raisins ; the same of currants ; one salt- 
spoonful of salt ; and steam four hours. Set in an 
oven twenty minutes before serving. 

Chocolate Blancmange. 

Take a tin of condensed milk, and add some 
fresh milk to it ; stir it over the fire, and stir into 
it about six sheets of white leaf gelatine which has 
been soaked in a cup of cold water; add three 
teaspoonfuls of grated chocolate, boil ten minutes, 
stirring all the time; when nearly cold beat for 
five minutes or until it begins to stiffen. Flavour 
and whip up at once, and put into a wet mould, and 
it will be firm in six or seven hours. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Take three tablespoonfuls of sugar, four of 
cornflour. Dissolve two and a half tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate in hot water, scald a quart of 
milk by putting it into a boiler over boiling water. 

D2 



36 TEMPTING DISHES. 

Dissolve the cornflour in a little scalded milk, and 
before it thickens, stir in the dissolved chocolate ; 
keep all in the boiler, stirring constantly till cooked 
Use with cream or custard. 

Coffee Custards. 

Make a quarter of a pint of very strong clear 
coffee and, when cold, stir it into half a pint of 
sweetened milk ; beat up two fresh eggs (leaving 
out the whites), mix them with the coffee and 
milk ; put into a jug and stir over the fire as above. 
When cool, pour into custard glasses. 

Crumb Pudding. 

One quart of milk, the same of bread-crumbs, 
three-quarters of a cup of sugar, the yolk of two 
^ggs, a tablespoonful of butter : flavour with 
nutmeg and lemon ; then bake in a slow oven, and 
when done spread over a layer of red-currant jelly. 
Whip the whites of the eggs to a froth ; add two 
tablespoonfuls of castor sugar ; pour over the jelly 
and bake a light brown. 

The Empress Rice. 

RIZ A l'imperatrice. 

Boil three tablespoonfuls of washed rice in 
a pint of milk, with sugar to taste, and a few drops 
of essence of vanilla. Make a custard with a gill 
of milk and three eggs, and when cold add it to 
the rice. Beat to a froth a gill of cream with 
some sugar and a pinch oi isinglassine^ dissolved 
in a little water. Mix this in with the rice and 
custard ; fill a mould, and set on ice ; then turn it 
out and serve. Preserved fruit, or preserve, may 
be served with it. 



TEMPTING DISHES 37 



French Cannelons. 



Make some pufF paste, roll thin, and cut into 
equal-sized strips. Place a spoonful of jam in the 
centre of each, cover with another strip of pastry, 
give a slight twist in the centre of each, and fry in 
boiling lard for about ten minutes ; then drain 
thoroughly upon a hot napkin and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. 

Fig Mould 

Take half-a pound of figs, the yellow peel of 
a lemon, chopped fine, one and a half ounces of 
white sugar, and a large teacupful of water ; put 
all in a jar with a cover or lid on, and place it in 
a saucepan with as much boiling water as will 
reach half-way up the jar, and let all stew gently 
till all the liquid is dried up and the figs are quite 
soft ; press the figs into a mould and let it stand 
till cold,, then turn out, and pour a custard round it 

Fig Pudding. 

Chop a pound of figs and six ounces of beef 
suet Put a teaspoonful of baking powder and 
a pinch of salt into half-a-pound of flour. Put 
this mixture into a basin with a quarter of a pound 
of bread-crumbs and two tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar. Beat up two eggs till light, and moisten 
with a little milk these ingredients to a stiff 
paste, and put it into a buttered mould with a cloth 
over, and boil it in boiling water for two hours. 

Floating Island. 

Cut a round sponge cake in slices, spread them 
with jam, place them on each other, and spread the 



38 TEMPTING DISHES. 

top with jam. Put tiie cake in a glass dish, and pour 
over it about a pint of boiled custard. Whip the 
whites of the two eggs used for the custard stiffly 
with a tablespoonful of white powdered sugar and 
heap on the top. Sprinkle over with chopped 
pistachio kernels and * hundreds and thousands.' 

General Satisfaction. 

Cover the bottom of a tart dish with some 
finger sponge cakes, one gill of milk, and some 
jam, and put it in a moderate oven till hot Grate 
the peel of a lemon and mix it with some sugar. 
Beat the yolk of one egg and the whites of three, 
beating in the sugar. Then pour on the cakes. 
Bake for fifteen minutes in a slow oven. 

Gingerbread Pudding. 

Work two ounces of butter with two table- 
spoonfuls of brown sugar, beat an egg well and 
add to it ; then mix in one teacupful of milk, one 
teaspoonful of ground ginger, eight ounces of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, and two of 
golden syrup, and steam for four hours. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Take a quart of gooseberries and put them in 
a jar with two tablespoonfuls of water, and a very 
little powdered white sugar ; set the jar in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water and let it boil till the fruit 
is soft enough to mash ; beat it to a pulp, and pass 
the pulp through a sieve, and stir into it two or 
three spoonfuls of condensed milk. Serve in a 
glass dish. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 39 

Hasty Pudding. 

Put some milk in a saucepan to boil, and when 
It quite boils dredge in some flour and keep stirring 
all the time (as it might burn), till the whole 
becomes very thick. Turn it out and stir for 
another minute after taking it from the fire, add 
a little butter and sweeten with sugar. Jam should 
be served round this pudding. 

Junket. 

Take a pint of fresh milk, a spoonful of white 
sugar, and one of rennet (bottles of rennet can be 
procured at most grocers), and a little brandy. 
Make the milk blood-warm, put it in a deep dish 
with the other ingredients, stir well together, and 
the milk will curdle and set Then spread some 
clotted cream over the top, grate some nutmeg, 
and serve. 

Lemon Cheesecakes. 

Take one lemon and three ounces of sugar, 
rub the sugar on the rind, then put the sugar in a 
basin, in not quite half a pint of water, squeeze in 
the juice and place all in a saucepan to dissolve 
the sugar ; thicken with a little arrowroot or corn- 
flour, till it becomes a jelly, stirring all the time 
till quite smooth (put in the thickening a little at 
a time and stir it quickly). Pour it then on to a 
plate to get cold, and then, with two forks, break 
it into little pieces and fill the tartlet cases. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Peel the rinds of two lemons as thin as possible. 
Take as little of the white substance off with the 



40 TEMPTING DISHES. 

rind as possible. . Stew these rinds in half a pint 
of milk . till they are soft enough to mash through 
a gravy-strainer. Whip up half a pint of cream ; 
then, without removing the cream, add two eggs 
one by one. Next, add the juice of the two lemons 
strained, with a heaped tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar, the milk in which the lemon-rinds were 
boiled, and the lemon-pulp. Line a pie-dish with 
puff paste, pour in the mixture, cover with a 
buttered paper and bake. Brown the paste a little. 

Lemon Tart. 

Line a deep pie-dish with flaky paste and then 
fill in with a preparation made of the juice of one 
lemon and the yellow rind grated, two-thirds of a 
cup of white sugar, one well-beaten egg, and one 
tablespoonful of cornflour ; stir all into half a pint 
of boiling water, and boil from three to five minutes ; 
pour on to the crust and set in the oven for a few 
minutes. 

Lemou Whip. 

Rub two and a half ounces of sugar on a lemon> 
crush the sugar, put it into a stewpan, and squeeze 
the lemon-juice through a strainer on to it Beat 
up the yolks of three eggs, add them to the sugar 
and lemon-juice, and stir over the fire till the cus- 
tard thickens, but do not let it boil; continue 
stirring a few minutes after removing from the 
fire, then leave it in the saucepan to get nearly 
cold. Whisk up the whites to a very stiff froth, 
stir, them lightly into the custard, then heap it up 
in a glass dish. This should only be made two 
hours before it is wanted. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 41 

Norfolk Dumplings. 

Purchase a few muffins from the baker, boil 
them for twenty minutes in water, and serve with 
sweet sauce. 

Orange Fool. 

Take six oranges, and extract the juice, and 
mix it with one and a half pints of milk (or one 
pint of cream), two eggs beaten till light, sugar to 
taste, and about a teaspoonful of cornflour mixed 
till smooth. Stir this all over a slow fire till as 
thick as good custard. Another way is to mix 
the juice of six or eight oranges, and the strained 
fruit, with two tablespoonfuls of condensed milk, 
and serve cold. 

Orange Meringue Pudding. 

Pour half a pint of milk over a couple of ounces 
of bread-crumbs, and let them soak till cold. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs till light ; add two ounces 
of pounded sugar, and the grated rind of four 
oranges. Cut away all the white pith and press 
the pulp of the oranges through a wire sieve. Add 
the orange-pulp and bread to the sugar, break it 
up in pieces, and stir in half an ounce of fresh 
butter. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
snow, mix lightly half the whites into the mix- 
ture, pour into a buttered pudding-dish, pile the 
remainder roughly on the top, dredge on some 
finely powdered sugar, and bake the pudding in a 
slow oven for three-quarters of an hour, when it 
should be of a pale golden colour. When the 
pudding is half baked, lay a sheet of paper on the 
top to prevent scorching. 



41 TEMPTING DISHES. 

Orange Pudding. 

Take the rind of three oranges and the juice of 
six, a cup of powdered sugar, and four eggs, one 
large tablespoonful of cornflour, and a pint of 
milk. Mix the cornflour with the milk. Stir it 
in a milk saucepan, add the thin rind of the 
oranges. When the milk begins to thicken, add 
the yolks of the eggs very carefully one at a time, 
then add a little salt and the juice of the oranges. 
Cook the pudding in a moderate oven till firm in 
the centre — it takes about forty minutes — remove 
the rind before the pudding is put into the oven. 
Whip the whites of the eggs up with a little orange- 
juice and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
cover the pudding, and let it cook in a moderate 
oven, with the door open a littla Serve the 
pudding cold. 

Pear Croquettes. 

Peel, core, and chop fine or grate six large ripe 
pears. Mix two ounces of fresh butter, melted, 
with them, and sugar to taste ; beat up three eggs 
until light, add to the fruit, and mix in as large a 
quantity of fine bread-crumbs as will make the 
mixture stiff. From this mixture mould the cro- 
quettes into egg-shaped form with two tablespoons, 
drop these into boiling water, and let them merely 
simmer till they are done — about twenty minutes 
— drain them, roll each in pounded sugar, lay them 
on a hot napkin, and place a very little ground cin- 
namon on the top of each croquette. Serve up very 
hot with or without sweet sauce. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 43 

Pear Marmalade. 

Take a dozen pears, throw them into boiling 
water and boil for twenty minutes or till soft enough 
to press through a sieve. Drain, remove the skins 
by gently rubbing the pears with a damp towel, 
press the pulp through the sieve. Weigh and add 
to its bulk in powdered loaf sugar made hot in the 
oven. Stir till it boils ; draw the pan to one side and 
keep the marmalade at the simmering point about 
twenty minutes or so, taking care not to let it boil. 
When the marmalade gets stiff pot it and cover 
when colA 

Pears, to Stew. 

Take twelve good-sized hard pears, peel and 
cut them in halves, leaving the stalk on one half. 
Remove the cores and then place them in a jar with 
half a pound of loaf sugar, six cloves and half a 
pint of water. Cover with a lid and stew in a slow 
oven from six to eight hours. When they are done 
lift each piece of pear on to a dish, strain the liquor 
into a saucepan and boil it quickly for ten minutes. 
If the colour is not good two or three drops of 
cochineal may be added. Let it cool and then 
pour over the pears ; a little lemon-peel cut in thin,, 
long, narrow strips may be stewed in with the pears, . 
and it is a great improvement 

Juice of Pears. 

Take some ripe and sound pears, wipe them 
with a damp cloth, cut them into thin slices and 
put them into a preserving-pan with one pint of 
water to every three pounds of fruit, and boil gently 
until they are soft enough to be rubbed through a 



44 TEMPTING DISHES. 

hair sieve. Weigh the juice and allow equal weight 
of powdered sugar, and mix thoroughly. Pour into 
clean bottles, cork tightly and tie down with string. 
Place the bottles in a pan of cold water with twists 
of hay around them to prevent them from breaking ; 
let the water boil for five minutes and then cool again 
before the bottles are removed. Store in a dry 
place. 

Pippin Tarts. 

Pare two oranges very thinly, boil the peel till 
tender, shred it fine, and core six apples and put 
them in a jar with a gill of water ; when half- 
cooked add half a pound of sugar and boil till 
pretty thick. When cold, place in a shallow dish 
lined with paste, turn out, and eat cold. 

Raspberry Trifle. 

Put a layer of sponge cake at the bottom of a 
glass dish, cover with raspberries and sprinkle 
white powdered sugar over them and repeat layers 
till the dish is full. Make a custard with two eggs, 
add a tablespoonful of castor sugar and stir in 
gradually a pint of milk. Let it thicken slightly, 
and then flavour with vanilla or lemon, and when 
cold pour it over the cake, etc. Whip the whites 
of two eggs to a stiff froth with a teaspoonful of 
sugar, pour over all and serve as quickly as pos- 
sible. 

Ratafia Pudding 

Soak the crumb of a French roll and three 
sponge cakes and half a pound of ratafias in milk 
till quite soft, then beat them up, add three ounces 
of warmed butter, the yolks of four and the whites 
of two eggs, and a few almonds blanched and 



TEMPTING DISHES. 45 

pounded. Butter a mould, lay a few dried cherries 
in it, pour in the pudding, cover the mould and 
steam it in a saucepan of boiling water for an hour 
and a hal£ 

Rhubarb Cream. 

Boil a bundle of rhubarb with a little water, 
some sugar, and the rind of half a lemon thinly 
peeled ; when quite soft, pass it through a sieve, and 
to the pulp add two well-beaten eggs; stir over 
the fire again till it just boils ; or when pulped 
add half a pint of cream, stir well together and put 
into a glass dish. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Boil the rice until quite soft arid tender ; whilst 
warm add an egg well beaten, a tablespoonful of 
butter and salt to taste, and half a teacupful of any 
kind of cold meat, ham, or tongue, chopped fine. 
When cold, make into croquettes, cover with beaten 
egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot dripping till 
browned. 

Rice Fritters. 

Boil two ounces of rice in a little milk and water 
till quite soft, let it cool, then mix it up with one 
ounce of sugar, a few currants, a tablespoonful of 
flour, two well-beaten eggs, a few drops of essence 
of almonds, and as much milk as will make it of 
a proper consistency. Drop the mixture from a 
tablespoon into boiling butter, and fry a light 
brown on both sides ; drain well and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve very hot 



iC) TEMPTING DISHES. 



Rolled Jelly Cake. 

Take two eggs, beat the yolks till creamy, 
adding gradually a good heaped-up tablespoonful 
of castor sugar ; beat the whites to a stifT froth, add 
them to the yolk and sugar ; add half a teaspoonful 
of baking-powder to half a cup of lightly sifted 
flour ; put this very carefully and slowly with the 
butter, add one tablespoonful of warm water. 

Line a long-shaped baking-pan with greased 
paper, pour in the mixture to the depth of a quarter 
of an inch. Bake from eight to ten minutes in a 
moderate oven. It must be thoroughly cooked, 
but lightly baked. As soon as it is done, turn it 
quickly from the pan, remove the paper, turn the 
cake, and spread it with jelly. With a knife 
quickly crush the crust round the edge and roll up 
the cake 

Preserved Tomatoes. 

Take five pounds of yellow egg tomatoes five 
pounds of white sugar, the juice of two lemons 
(three, if small). Cover the fruit with the sugar, 
and let it stand overnight. In the morning drain 
the syrup from the fruit, boil, skim, put in the 
tomatoes, and boil slowly for twenty minutes ; 
skim the fruit, then put out into plates ; boil the 
juice till thick ; add the lemon-juice, and put the 
tomatoes carefully into bottles, and cover with the 
hot syrup. Seal up at once. 

Scotch Fritters. 

Take any remains of cold game, and mince 
very finely, removing all skin and gristle. If there 



TEMPTING DISHES. 47 

should be half a pound, mix in with it about six 
or eight finely chopped mushrooms, a little season- 
ing of salt and pepper, a dust of cayenne, and stir 
it into about half a pint of good batter. Drop the 
mixture a tablespoonful at a time into a saucepan 
with plenty of boiling fat in it, and as soon as the 
fritters become a good golden colour, remove and 
drain them, and keep hot till all are cooked Then 
pile them up high on a hot dish with sprigs of 
crisp, fried parsley, and serve. 

Simple Sweet Omelet. 

Beat together the yolk of an egg, one teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, one and a half teaspoonful of orange- 
juice, and three gratings of the orange-peel ; then 
pour this over the lightly whisked white of ^gg^ put 
in a hot pan over a quick fire, cook for about three 
minutes, and then put it into the oven for half a 
minute, fold and sprinkle with sugar. 

Stanley Pudding. 

Take half a pint of milk and mix a little of it 
with a tablespoonful of flour. Heat the rest of the 
milk, and pour it on the flour, stirring well. Beat 
a couple of eggs, and with an ounce of butter add 
to the flour, stirring and beating well. Pour all 
into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for half an hour. 
Spread on the top a layer of raspberry jam, and 
tlie white of an egg whipped and sweetened. 

Yeast Dumplings. 

Get half a quartern of dough from the baker's ; 
roll it into dumplings; throw into boiling water 



48 TEMPTING DISHES. 

and boil for about twenty minutes. Serve either 
with sweet sauce or good gravy. 

Anchovy Cream Toasts. 

Fry some thin sippets of bread, either round or 
diamond shape. Spread these with a little anchovy 
paste. Make a thick mayonnaise sauce to which 
has been added chopped chervil, shalot or chives, 
and capers. Spread the sauce between the anchovy 
sippets like sandwiches, and serve with watercress 
or mustard and cress. 

Baked Eggs. 

Butter a dish, cover the bottom with fine bread- 
crumbs ; then break as many eggs as may be 
required over them, be careful not to break the 
yolks ; then sprinkle another layer of crumbs over 
them ; season with pepper and salt ; place on a few 
little pieces of butter, and bake five minutes in a 
quick oven. 

Baked Eggs. 

Put some good gravy into a shallow baking- 
dish. Break four eggs or as many as are required 
into this, salt them, and strew some bread-crumbs 
over them, and bake for five minutes in a quick 
oven. Take up the eggs carefully one by one and 
lay upon little rounds of fried bread. Add to the 
gravy a little cream and some very finely chopped 
parsley and onion ; put into a saucepan and boil up 
quickly and pour over the eggs. 

Baked Eggs. 

Fill the dish with the beaten whites. Make a 
hollow in the centre and put in the unbeaten yolks ; 



TEMPTING DISHES. 49 

sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the top, and 
lay a small piece of butter on the yolk. Bake for 
two minutes. 

Bloater Pur^e. 

Simmer six bloaters, remove the skins and 
take off the flesh from the bones, and pass it through 
a sieve and put it into a stewpan. Add sufficient 
butter to make it into a perfectly smooth paste. 
Draw the pan a little on one side, and stir in 
two tablespoonfuls of cream, a little finely chopped 
parsley and a seasoning of Nepaul pepper. Stir till 
the preparation is quite hot, then turn it out, sprinkle 
brown raspings and sifted egg-yolk over the top, 
and garnish with a border of toasted sippets. 

Bloaters' Brains on Toast 

Take the soft roe of the bloater, slice it neatly, 
with a tiny dust of Nepaul or coralline pepper, and 
then roll each slice very delicately in a very thin 
slice of bacon. Roll them on a neatly cut piece of 
toast, and put them into the oven and quickly 
cook and serve very hot. — Pouard, 

Bloater Roes. 

Take some bloater roes, either hard or soft, 
boil them ; then pound them in a mortar and roll 
them up with a little butter, and a dust of salt and 
cayenne pepper, and then spread on very hot 
buttered toast 

Stuffed Bloaters. 

Remove the roes from some bloaters, and pound 
them in the mortar, take away all bones from the 

E 



50 TEMPTING DISHES. 

fish, add to the roes a couple of tablcspoonfuls ol 
bread-crumbs, some minced parsley, and a teaspoon- 
ful of sweet herbs chopped fine, a little finely grated 
lemon-peeL Stuff the bloaters with this and fasten 
with a skewer, and bake, and serve very hot 

Breakfast Dish. 

Take three tomatoes, slice them and put them 
in a stewpan with a little butter, a little finely 
chopped ham, pepper and salt, and let them cook 
for a few minutes ; then add two raw eggs and 
stir all together for a few minutes till the eggs set, 
then serve on buttered toast with a little finely 
chopped parsley sprinkled over the top. 

Cabbage ^ la Cr^me. 

Boil cabbage till tender. Drain it When it is 
perfectly cold drain it a second time, then chop 
up, and mix with it a tablespoonful of butter, a 
well-beatcn ^gg, pepper, salt, and half a teacupful 
of milk or cream. Stir all well. Then bake brown 
in a pudding dish. Serve hot in the dish in which it 
is baked. The dish should be buttered or greased. 

Cabbage and Tomato. 

Boil and chop finely some young cabbage, as 
little water as possible should be used ; when quite 
tender add half the quantity of hot stewed tomatoes. 
Boil together for a few minutes. Season with 
a little salt and pepper, and pour a little white 
sauce over. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 51 

Fried Celery. 

Cut the white pieces of the celery into lengths 
of four inches, and sprinkle with salt and pepper ; 
dip them into beaten egg, then bread-crumb them, 
and fry quickly in very hot fat ; drain, and then 
serve. 

Celery 3t la Parmesan. 

Stew some celery in milk till tender ; then make 
a white sauce, into which grated Parmesan should 
be mixed, and then place the celery on the dish it 
is to be served in. Pour the white sauce over, then 
a layer of grated Parmesan, then a thin layer of 
bread-crumbs, and over all arrange some little 
pieces of butter, salamander, and serve. 

Champignons k la Bordelaise. 

Take half-a-pound of fresh mushrooms of good 
size, peel and place them in an earthenware dish 
with plenty of pepper and salt to season, also a 
small piece each of garlic and parsley. Place the 
dish in the oven and baste continually with 
melted butter ; remove after an hour's cooking, and 
broil each mushroom slightly over a moderate fire. 
Make a sauce of the liquor contained in the baking- 
dish by adding flour and butter. 

Cheese Custards. 

Take two ounces of grated cheese, three tea- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream, one egg well-beaten, 
a little cayenne and salt to taste. Beat all well 

B2 



52 TEMPTING DISHES. 

together, bake in a small dish in a gentle oven for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve very hot 



Cheese Pudding. 

Beat up two eggs well\ mix in three ounces 
of grated cheese. A little salt, cayenne, made 
mustard and a little milk. Thoroughly mix and 
pour into a buttered pie-dish and bake. 



Cheese Tartlets* 

Beat up the yolk of an egg ; mix with it two 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, a dust 
of cayenne pepper, and a little salt Have ready 
a little very light puff paste, line half a dozen small 
patty-pans with it, or cut it into small squares ; put 
a little mixture into each pan, or in the centre of 
the squares, fold the latter over cornerways, or 
pinch the four corners into the centre ; bake for 
a few minutes. The paste may be cut into finger- 
strips and the mixture spread on half of them, 
placing the others sandwich fashion over them. 



Colcannon« 

Boil some potatoes and any kind of greens, 
separately. Mash the former, and chop the latter 
very finely, and mix the two together with a little 
butter, pepper, salt, and a very tiny piece of chopped 
onion. Put all into a buttered mould, and stand 
it in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 53 



Convent Eggs. 

Boil four eggs for ten minutes, put them into 
cold water ; peel and skin one onion very thin ; 
then put into a fryingpan one ounce of butter, 
and, when melted, add the onion, a teaspoonful of 
flour, half-a-pint of milk, salt, and pepper ; then 
add the eggs, cut crosswise each into six pieces. 
Serve upon toast. 

Croutes St la Campagne, 

Take six boned and well-washed anchovies, 
pound them together with the yolks of hard-boiled 
eggs, about a quarter of a pound of butter, and a 
tiny dust of Nepaul pepper, and a little cochineal 
colouring. Pound these into a smooth paste, rub 
through wire sieve, and then arrange them on to 
some little round fried croutons, and sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley over. 



Croutes of Haddock. 

Take a Finnon haddock about a pound in 
weight, free it from skin and bones, and put it into 
a stewpan with two ounces of butter, four table- 
spoonfuls of milk, a well-beaten yolk of egg, a little 
pepper, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk 
these ingredients quickly over the fire for five 
minutes, by which time the fish will be smooth. 
Pile this on some small rounds of hot buttered 
toast Sprinkle the tops lightly with finely minced 
parsley and coralline pepper, and serve. 



54 TEMPTING DISHES. 



Curried Egg^s on Toast 

Cut some round pieces of fried bread, curiy 
some onions, and put a good layer of them on the 
fried rounds of bread. Keep very hot while the 
required number of eggs is being poached, and lay 
a poached egg on each round of curry toast, and 
serve quickly. 

Devilled Biscuits. 

Take some water biscuits, steep them in milk 
for ten minutes, take them out, dust them with 
cayenne, salt and black pepper, and bake them in a 
slow oven for twenty minutes. 



Devilled Lobster. 

Take the meat from a lobster and put on a little 
Nepaul pepper, chop it very finely, then add a 
dessertspoonful of chutney, a little oiled butter and 
a tomato cut up small. These must be stewed 
over the fire, stirring till they boil ; add a little 
mixed mustard (French also if available). Have 
ready some little squares of fried bread, and put 
some of the devilled lobster on each, and sprinkle a 
little finely chopped parsley over. 

Devilled Sardines. 

Take six sardines and spread over them on 
both sides some made mustard and a dash of 
cayenne, grill them and serve on hot buttered toast ; 
garnish with slices of lemon. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 55 

Eggs Si la Bonne Femme. 

Get as many eggs as there are guests (they 
should all be of the same size) ; boil them for ten 
minutes and put them into cold water to cool, then 
remove the shells very carefully, cut them in half, 
remove the yolks and cut from each the pointed tip 
of white so that they should stand quite flat 
Make some very tiny dice of cold chicken, ham, 
beetroot and the yolks of the eggs. Fill the 
hollows with these up to the brim, and pile it high 
up in the centre. Arrange lettuce on the dish, and 
place the eggs in the midst of it 

Eggs and Mushrooms. 

Hard boil three or four eggs, cut them length- 
wise, scoop out the yolks and put in their place a 
mixture of equal parts of tomatoes and mushrooms 
rubbed through a sieve ; close the two halves of the 
eggs and lay them on a bed of hot crisped parsley. 
The eggs should be heated a few minutes before 
serving, and then some hot clear butter poured over 
them. 

Finnon Haddock with Poached Eggs. 

Heat a large pie-dish, place the haddock in it 
and cover it with boiling water ; put a dish over 
and allow the fish to soak for eight minutes. The 
haddock should now be swollen to nearly double 
its original size. Drain it from the water and place it 
with the skin downwards in a Dutch oven before the 
fire, with several lumps of butter on the top ; add also 
a little pepper and cayenne. The fish should remain 






56 TEMPTING DISHES. 

before the fire till a golden-brown colour, and it 
may require the tin turning, so as to bake equally. 
When done, place on a hot dish and cover the top 
with poached eggs, according to the number of 
persons. 

Gascony Butter. 

Take equal quantities of parsley picked from 
the stalk and parboiled, of boned and pounded 
anchovies, and of fresh butter. Mix the ingredients 
well together and pass them through a hair sieve ; 
shape the butter into little balls and ice them. 
These are nice little relishes for breakfast or 
lunch. 

Grenada Toasts. 

Cut some fat and lean bacon into dice, give 
them a few turns over the fire with parsley, green 
onions, pepper and salt ; add the yolks of two eggs, 
stir them well together, and spread over slices of 
fried bread. 

Ham Balls. 

Chop half a pound of cold lean ham, put a tea- 
cupful of milk on to boil, add to it half a teacupful 
of stale bread-crumbs and stir till it thickens ; add 
two egg yolks, a little salt, cayenne pepper, and the 
chopped ham ; stir over fire till well heated, adding 
a little minced parsley ; leave till cold. 

Ham Toast. 

A quarter-pound of lean ham chopped vety 
fine, a dessertspoonful of butter and the yolk of an 



TEMPTING DISHES. 57 

cg&> a dust of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of cream 
or milk ; stir over fire in a saucepan till it thickens, 
then spread on toast 

Jerusalem Artichokes and Cheese, 

Boil some artichokes, and cover them with a 
sauce made with a dessertspoonful of flour, rubbed 
into cold water (about a teacupful), and stirred 
over the fire till hot, then a little butter and grated 
Parmesan cheese stirred in till the former is dis- 
solved. 

Macaroni 'k Tltalienne. 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water, and 
let it boil till cooked, which will be in twenty-five 
minutes ; allow half a pound of macaroni to a pint 
of boiling water. Take some tomato sauce, and 
add a good piece of fresh butter to it whilst cooking ; 
then pour on some good beef gravy, and thoroughly 
warm. Drain the macaroni, and place a layer of 
it in a deep dish, and sprinkle well with grated 
Gruy^re and Parmesan cheese ; pour on it a small 
portion of the sauce and gravy mixed, and vetyhot, 
so as to melt the cheese ; then place another layer 
of macaroni, grated cheese and sauce ; then strain 
well, without breaking the macaroni, after which 
continue putting on layers, and finally serve. 



Macaroni St la Milanese. 

Boil a teacupful of macaroni till tender, strain 
it off, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter, 
pepper and salt ; add a teaspoonful of tomato pulp ; 
serve hot, and hand grated cheese separately. 



5S TEMPTING DISHES. 

Mushrooms au Gratia 

Scoop out the inside of some nice round cup 
mushrooms after peeling them ; cut off the stalks, 
peel them and chop them up with a small bit of 
onion, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch 
of thyme and a piece of thin lemon-peel, the size 
of sixpence ; fry these in bacon fat, flavour with 
pepper and salt, and add sufficient quantity cf 
bread-crumbs, to fill the hollowed-out mushrooms. 
Fill the hollows with this mixture and cover with 
a few bread-crumbs, and cook very slowly in good 
fat in a stewpan, keeping them well covered to keep 
in the flavour. Serve with a little gravy poured 
round. 

Mushrooms with Toast 

Rub the tops of the mushrooms with a piece of 
flannel dipped in salt Heat some butter in a sauce- 
pan, into which put the mushrooms with a little 
salt and Nepaul pepper ; let them stew gently till 
the butter has almost disappeared, when add cream 
and the grated rind of a lemon. Let them simmer 
now only till done. Serve the mushrooms on cut 
rounds of fried bread, and squeeze some lemon- 
juice over them. 

Failles de Parmesan. 

Grate four ounces of Parmesan cheese, four 
ounces of bread-crumbs, the same quantity each 
of flour and butter, and add a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Make into a paste (use a little milk to 
mix), cut this into narrow strips of half an inch 
thickness, and bake in a quick oven for five minutes. 
Serve cold. 



TEMPTING DISHES^ » 

Potatoes and Bacon. 

Cut thin rashers of bacon, fry them, and when 
cooked throw into the fat in the saucepan some 
roughly chopped potatoes ; pile them on a hot dish, 
brown in front of the fire, and serve with the 
rashers on the top. Season the potatoes well with 
pepper and salt 

Baked Potatoes with Cheese. 

Scour the potatoes and bake them till done; 
cut their tops nearly off and scoop out the insides ; 
mix with them a little grated cheese, an egg, a little 
butter or milk, salt and pepper ; fill the skins with 
this mixture, replace the tops, and bake them again 
till hot 

Potato and Cheese Patties. 

Mash three or foxir potatoes, mix them with a 
little butter, milk, grated cheese, salt and pepper ; 
put a little of the mixture in each patty-pan and 
bake for a few minutes. Paper Ramekin cases 
can be filled with them, instead of using patty- 
pans. 

Potato and Ham Sandwiches. 

Stir two eggs into a quart of well-seasoned 
mashed potatoes without beating; on two table- 
spoonfuls of this potato lay a slice of cold ham 
neatly trimmed ; cover with the same amount of 
potato, press firmly together round the edges, 
dredge with flour on both sides ; have some boiling 
fat ready on the stove, and fry these a delicate 
brown. 



6o TEMPTING DISHES. 

Potatoes IL la Lyonnaise. 

Mince an onion and fry it in hot butter ; add 
cold sliced potatoes, and stir them till they are 
fried white ; then add a little minced parsley. 

Potatoes k la Maitre d'H6teL 

Boil six potatoes for half an hour ; when cool, 
peel and cut them into thick slices. Put two 
ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of minced 
parsley, a little pepper and salt, and two table- 
spoonfuls of gravy juice into a stewpan ; mix to- 
gether, put in the potatoes, and shake the sauce- 
pan, so that the sauce may cover them well. When 
quite hot squeeze some lemon over, and serve. 

Potato Puff. 

One pint hot mashed potato; add one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper, two 
spoonfuls of celery salt, one tablespoonful of butter, 
and hot milk to moisten. When partly cool add 
the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake for ten minutes. 
Beat lightly. 

Scotch Woodcock. 

Take a couple of slices of buttered toast, place 
ati anchovy on each slice ; take the yolks of two eggs 
and a gill of milk or cream. Separate the yolks from 
the whites of the eggs, beat the former, and stir 
them into the cream or milk, and bring the same 
to boiling point or it will curdle. Take the hot 
buttered toast and spread with the anchovies 
pounded to a paste ; pour a little of the hot sauce 
on the top and serve quickly and hot 



TEMPTING DISHES. tt 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake SIX potatoes of equal size ; when done and 
still hot cut off a small piece from the end of each 
potato, scoop out the inside, mash and mix with 
half the quantity of any cold meat, highly seasoned 
and finely minced. Fill the skins a little above the 
edge. Set in the oven to brown the tops. 

Rice Croquettes with Parmesan. 

Wash half a pound of rice and simmer slowly 
in a quart of milk and water until the rice is nicely 
swollen and the quart of liquid all absorbed. Then 
place in a colander before the fire and shake occa- 
sionally until the rice is quite dry. Add bread- 
crumbs and grated Parmesan (an equal cupful of 
each), a little salt and cayenne ; then roll into small 
round balls, dip each one into egg and butter, and 
fry a delicate brown. Sprinkle thickly with grated 
Parmesan and serve either hot or cold. 

Rice and Cheese. 

Boil some rice in milk till tender and all the milk 
is soaked up, then mix in some grated cheese, 
pepper and salt ; put the mixture in a small pie- 
dish, shake some grated cheese over the top, and 
bake in the oven till the top is nicely browned. 

It must be well moist before it is baked. Mus- 
tard should be served with it. 

Risotto d, la Milanese. 

Cut up an onion and fry it a nice brown, but do 
not burn it Put this into a saucepan with half a 
pound of rice and some nice stock to it, and let the 



61 TEMPTING DISHES. 

rice cook gently till all the stock is soaked up. 
Season with a little pepper and salt, and serve 
with grated cheese. 

Sardine Sandwich: 

Remove the skin and bones from six sardines ; 
mash them, add a teaspoonful of made mustard, 
one of lemon-juice, one of Worcestershire sauce ; 
pound, and add gradually one tablespoonful of 
olive oil ; when smooth spread thinly on small 
crisp water biscuits ; dust thickly with the yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs mashed fine; serve with water- 
cress or lettuce. 

Savoury Custard. 

Beat up two eggs, and stir into them a teacup- 
ful of cold beef-tea or some bovril ; add a little 
salt and pepper ; pour into a small buttered basin ; 
cover with a buttered paper and pjiace in a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, which should come rather 
more than half-way up, and steam gently for half 
an hour. 

Savoury Croutons. 

Cut some slices of stale bread into fancy 
shapes — rounds, diamonds, heart-shapes, trefoils, 
etc. — and soak these thoroughly in milk; then 
sprinkle them on both sides with a mixture of 
minced onion, herb powder, pepper, salt and 
chopped parsley ; press this well into the croutons, 
and fry them in boiling fat ; drain carefully ; pile 
up high on a hot napkin, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve hot. The croutons may be soaked in 
white stock instead of milk. 



-^ 



TEMPTING DISHES. 63 

Savoury Pancakes. 

Put six tablespoonfuls of flour in a basin with a 
teaspoonful of salt ; make this into a batter of the 
proper consistence as thick as double cream, with 
three large eggs well beaten and a little milk ; beat 
the mixture briskly with a wooden spoon till every 
tiny knot is smooth ; then stir in a tablespoonful 
of minced onion ; a teaspoonful of herb powder ; 
and a good dust of pepper. Let the batter stand 
a few hours, then fry a small teacupful at a time 
in boiling fat or lard ; as each pancake is finished 
roll it up bolster fashion, sprinkle pepper and 
salt over, and serve as quickly after being cooked 
as possible. 

Spinach Souffld. 

Make a thick pur^e of spinach, using good 
stock to mix it with ; add half a tablespoonful of 
flour, a little salt, pepper, and an ounce of butter ; 
let all this boil till thick^ then add the yolks of 
two eggs, a gill of milk, and mix well together. 
Just before sending to table, add the whipped 
whites of the eggs and put into the oven till 
cooked. 

Strew hard-boiled egg (yolk and white), passed 
through the sieve, over the top. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Choose a large cabbage; remove the outside 
leaves ; throw into boiling water with salt and boil 
for ten minutes ; then throw it into cold water ; 
drain and press it with the hands to get all the 
moisture out ; take out the middle of the cabbage 
and fill it with a stuffing made of sausage meat, 



64 TEMPTING DISHES. 

bacon, or the remains of cold meat, etc., chopped ; 
cover the stuffing with cabbage leaves ; tie up the 
cabbage ; cook it in a stewpan with slices of bacon 
over, and under it herbs, carrots, onions, cloves 
and nutmeg ; moisten with stock or broth, and cook 
slowly from two and a half to three hours. When 
done put the cabbage on a dish ; skim and strain 
the gravy, and pour some over the cabbage. 

Tomatoes and Cheese. 

Cut off the tops of the tomatoes, remove the 
insides ; mix with them a little grated cheese, pepper, 
salt, butter, and grated bread-crumbs ; fill them with 
this mixture and bake in a buttered tin. 

Tomatoes and Cream. 

Slice the tomatoes rather thick and turn off all 
the juice that escapes ; sprinkle with sugar, and just 
before they are served pour cream over them. 

Tomatoes and Eggs. 

Boil some ripe tomatoes and pulp them through 
a coarse sieve, stir in two or three eggs according 
to size of dish, pepper, salt, and a little butter, and 
fry all togetlier lightly. A little fine onion is ah 
improvement 

Tomato Pancakes. 

Make a batter as for savoury pancakes, and stir 
into it, instead of the onion, etc., four ripe tomatoes 
skinned and beaten to a pulp. Fry and serve in 
the usual manner, or they may be fried with the 
onions and the herbs as in the previous recipe ; then 



TEMPTING DISHES. 65 

when nicely set and turned a couple of spoonfuls of 
hot stewed tomatoes may be lightly laid in the 
centre of each pancake ; the edges must then be 
turned over and the whole nicely browned. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take half a pound of sliced tomatoes and one 
ounce of Spanish onion, cut into very thin rings. 
Lay the tomatoes on the bottom of the dish, 
scatter the rings over, dress with vinegar, black 
pepper and salt 

Tomatoes on Toast 

Take six or eight ripe tomatoes, cut off the 
stalks and any green part there may be, take out 
the seeds and cut the tomatoes into thick slices ; 
arrange these in a single layer on a greased baking- 
tin, sprinkle over them some finely sifted bread- 
crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ; put a little 
piece of butter on each slice and bake in a brisk 
oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve on 
neatly cut pieces of hot buttered toast, with the 
gravy that is in the dish with them poured over ; a 

few drops of lemon-juice is an improvement 

/■ 

Vegetable Marrow au Parmesan. 

Peel and cut in half a vegetable marrow ; take 
out the seeds and soft part, and cut it into neat oval- 
shaped fillets about three inches long and two inches 
wide. Put them into a small stewpan with a piece 
of butter and stew till tender ; add pepper and salt 
and serve on fried croCltons of bread and pour 
Parmesan sauce over them. 

¥ 



66 TEMPTING DISHES. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Prepare some melted butter (see 'Melted 
Butter ' ), add a little cayenne, and add when the 
sauce is over the fire a teaspoonful of essence of 
anchovies. 

Apple Sauce. 

Take half a dozen good sized apples and throw 
them into cold water, after paring and coreing them. 
Then put them into a saucepan with sufficient water 
to moisten them, and boil till soft enough to pulp. 
Beat them up, adding a little sugar to taste and a 
small piece of butter. 

Bread Sauce, to Make. 

Take half a pint of milk, and boil in it a shalot 
which has one clove stuck in it for five minutes ; 
then add two ounces of grated freshly made bread- 
crumbs, and an ounce of butter. Let the sauce 
simmer gently for ten minutes, at the end of which 
time the shalot must be taken out of the sauce, 
and two good tablespoonfuls of cream added to it, a 
pinch of salt, a dust of white pepper, and a trifle of 
Nepaul pepper. The sauce must boil for a few 
minutes more, and will then be ready to serve. 
The cream can be omitted. 

Caper Sauce. 

Make some melted butter and take two table- 
spoonfuls of capers with some of their liquor, chop 
the capers in halves, and add them with their 
liquor to the melted butter, and keep stirring well 
Let the sauce simmer, and then serve. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 67 

Egg Sauce. 

Take half a pint of melted butter and two eggs 
hard boiled. The eggs should be boiled for twenty 
minutes and then thrswii into cold water for half 
an hour ; then strip off the shells, chop tfie eggs 
(not too fine), and stir into the melted butter on 
the fire, with a squeeze of lemon-juice. A table- 
spoonful of cream is a great improvement 

Horseradish Sauce. 

One teaspoonful of made mustard, a dessert- 
spoonful of condensed milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, and as much grated horseradish as will 
make it as thick as custard. A good tablespoonful 
of cream is a great improvement 

Lobster Sauce. 

Make some good melted butter as per recipe, 
add a dust of coralline pepper to it, and a couple 
of tablespoonfuls of cream if wanted superior. 
Take the meat from a new lobster and cut it into 
small square pieces, put the spawn into a mortar 
with half an ounce of butter and pound it smooth, 
rub it through a hair sieve, put the pieces of lobster 
into the melted butter and the pounded spawn, 
stir well together over the fire and serve. 

Melted Butter. 

Take one teaspoonful of flour, one ounce of 
butter, and not quite half a pint of milk, and a few 
grains of salt Mix the butter and a little of the 
milk smoothly together in a basin, and melt the 



68 TEMPTING DISHES. 

butter in the saucepan ; put the flour-paste into the 
hot butter in the saucepan ; stir it over the fire for one 
minute and then pour in the remainder of the milk ; 
keep stirring one way only over a quick fire ; let 
it boil quickly for a minute or two, and then it will 
be ready to serve. This sauce is the foundation of 
all other sauces. 

Mustard Sauce. 

Mix four tablespoonfuls of mustard, and one 
teaspoonful of salt, with enough Chili vinegar to 
form a smooth paste, then stir in half a pint of 
vinegar. 

Onion Sauce. 

Peel some onions and put them into a little 
salt and water, and let them steep for fifteen 
minutes. Then put them into a saucepan, cover 
them with water, and let them boil till tender. 
Then drain the onions, chop them finely, and rub 
them through a sieve. Take half a pint of melted 
butter (see * Melted Butter '), and when it is boiling 
put in the onions, season with a very little salt 
and some white pepper, and serve. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Take half a pint of melted butter (see undei 
' Melted Butter ') and put into it the liquor of the 
oysters, and in which liquor the beards of the 
oysters should be scalded and then strained ; add a 
few drops of essence of anchovy, a teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice, and a dash of cayenne ; boil up, and 
then put in the oysters uncooked, but cut in half. 
A tablcspoonful of cream is a great improvement 



TEMPTING DISHES. 69 

Parsley Sauce. 

Take one ounce of butter and one and a half 
ounces of flour, and fry them until they become a 
pale gold colour ; then add, by degrees, half a pint 
of boiling water, and stir the sauce over the fire 
till it boils, then strain the sauce through a tammy. 
Then add the parsley, which has been made thus. 
Take a good handful of parsley and branch it, 
press out all the water, mix a little butter with it 
and a little green colouring, and then rub through 
a hair sieve ; then mix it with the sauce and add a 
tablespoonful of cream. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Take a handful of parsley and put it into a 
stewpan, and cover it with cold water ; add a little 
soda and a pinch of salt, and bring the water 
quickly to the boil ; strain it off and press the 
water well from the parsley. Mix an ounce of 
butter with the parsley and rub it through a hair 
sieve. Fry an ounce of butter and an ounce and 
a half of flour together till a pale gold colour ; 
then pour on rather more than half a pint of boil- 
ing water, and stir over the fire till the sauce boils ; 
then strain it, and afterwards add the parsley 
and two tablespoonfuls of cream. If the parsley 
is a bad colour, a little green colouring may be 
added. 

Piquante Sauce (another way). 

Take a dessertspoonful of chopped shalot, one 
of capers, and one of pickled gherkins. Put these 
into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of vinegar 
and a bay leaf, and let all simmer till the vinegaf 



70 TEMPTING DISHES. 

has evaporated very nearly away ; then add half a 
pint of good brown gravy, and add a little salt 
If required thick, add some brown thickening, and 
skim the sauce to get rid of any grease. 

Corn-flour Cake. 

Beat a quarter of a pound of outter, and the 
same of sugar, to a cream ; add the yolks of two 
eggs, beating all the- time, and the grated rind of 
a lemon ; stir in six ounces of corn-flour, which 
should be warmed and sifted, and then the whites 
stiffly whipped. Bake in a buttered and papered 
tin for an hour. 

Crisp Biscuits. 

Make a pound of flour, the yolk of one egg, 
and some milk, into a very stiff' paste, beat it well, 
knead it smooth, roll very thin, and cut into 
biscuits. Bake in a slow oven till quite dry and 
crisp. 

Drop Cakes. 

Put one pound of flour into a basin, and rub 
into it half a pound of butter ; add a quarter of 
a pound of castor sugar ; grate the peel from one 
lemon, and add to it Mix in a quarter of a pound 
of currants, and two eggs, well beaten ; stir well 
all together, and drop this mixture on to a floured 
baking-tin in lumps, and bake in a moderate oven 
from a quarter to half an hour. 

Gingerbread Cake. 

Take a pound and a half of flour, one pound 
of treacle, a quarter of a pound of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda, the same of ground 



TEMPTING DISHES. 71 

ginger and of ground cinnamon, half a teaspoonful 
of allspice, and half an ounce of carraway seeds, 
two ounces of sugar and of orange-peel, two eggs, 
and enough milk to make all into a stiff paste. 
Melt the butter ; add this to the treacle, then add 
the eggs, well-beaten. Mix all the dry ingredients 
together, and to these add the liquid with sufficient 
milk to form a stiff paste, and stir all well up. 
Line two cake-tins with buttered paper, put in the 
mixture in equal quantities, and bake about an 
hour in a moderate oven. 

Thin Ginger Wafers. 

Beat four ounces of butter to a cream and mix 
in four ounces of golden syrup ; stir in four ounces 
of flour and one ounce of pounded ginger ; roll out 
thin, and bake for fifteen minutes in a slow oven ; 
roll like wafers when warm. 

Potato Cakes. 

• Rub two ounces of beef dripping and two 
ounces of lard into one pound of flour. Add 
a teaspoonful of baking-powder and a pound of 
cold boiled and baked potatoes. Mix thoroughly 
with one well-beaten egg, and as much lukewarm 
milk as will make a smooth light paste. Roll this 
out about one inch in thickness, and cut in any 
desired shape. Bake in a buttered tin. 

A Pound Cake. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs, and whip up the 
whites in a separate basin, cream six ounces of 
butter, and add it to the beaten eggs. Dredge in 



^^ TEMPTING DISHES, 

gradually six ounces of flour, and the same quan- 
tity of sugar. Mix all these ingredients lightly 
together, and beat the cake for half an hour. Pour 
it into a well-greased cake-tin and bake in a quick 
oven for about an hour. 

Scones. 

Dissolve half a saltspoonful of carbonate of 
soda and five ounces of butter in a quarter of a 
pint of warm milk. Put ten ounces of flour into 
a bowl, add a pinch of salt, and stir into the milk 
in which the butter has been dissolved, until it is 
a stiff" dough. Roll out into a cake a quarter of 
an inch thick, and bake on a girdle from twelve to 
fifteen minutes. 

Seed Cake. 

Rub six ounces of dripping into a pound of 
flour ; add a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of mixed 
spice, a tablespoonful of carraway seeds, and six 
ounces of sugar. Mix the dry ingredients tho»- 
roughly. Dissolve a teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda into half a pint of milk, add a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and stir into the cake. Beat the cake well, 
put it into a buttered hoop, and bake in a moder- 
ately heated oven for one hour. 

Soda Cake. 

Take a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, 
half a pound of moist sugar, half a pound of cur- 
rants, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 
a quarter of a pint of milk, three eggs. Mix all 
well together, and bake immediately. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 73 

Tea Cakes. 

Take three eggs, beat the yolks and mix them 
ivith half a pound of flour, and four ounces of castor 
sugar. Beat six ounces of fresh butter to a cream, 
add the other ingredients gradually to the butter, 
and mix most thoroughly. Roll it out, and cut it 
into strips five inches long, and twist each strip 
into the shape of an S. Brush each one over with 
white of egg, and sugar slightly. Bake in a mode- 
rate oven for twenty minutes. 

Prairie Oyster- 
Take a wineglass, put into it half a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, break a new-laid egg into it, season 
with pepper and salt, sprinkle it with vinegar, and 
swallow like an oyster. 

Green Barley Water. 

This is a capital drink for garden and lawn- 
tennis parties, etc It is made by peeling three 
lemons very thinly, so that there is no white pith, 
placing to tJiem a quart of boiling water, five or six 
large lumps of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of the 
juice. When cold and the water is highly flavoured, 
take out the peel and stand the jug on ice. 

Lemon Squash. 

Press the juice from some lemons, and strain 
it free from all particles. To two quarts of juice 
put in a piece of alum as large as a walnut, and a 
piece of Spanish earth about the same size. In 
the morning the juice will be clear ; gently pour it 



74 TEMPTING DISHES. 

off, or to its own bulk of white sugar add one pint 
of water ; stir over a gentle fire till the sugar is dis- 
solved; add the shell and white of one egg whisked 
a little, whip it into the lemon syrup and continue 
till it boils. Give a sharp boil up, strain through 
a cambric cloth, and bottle. The bottles must be 
very dry. Put two drops of essence of lemon in 
each, fill up with cold syrup and seal. One wine- 
glassful in a tumbler three parts filled with ice, and 
add soda-water from a syphon ; serve with straws. 

To Cook an Old Fowl. 

Prepare the fowl for roasting, stuff it with bread- 
crumbs, parsley, and a little sweet herb, a very 
small onion, salt, pepper. Truss securely and boil 
for three hours, and it will eat as good as a young 
fowl. 

Cooking Hints. 

Royal icing must always be mixed with a 
wooden spoon, adding a few drops of lemon to 
make the icing whiter. 

Mutton chops should be broiled over a clean 
but not fierce fire ; pour a little salad oil over the 
chops, and sprinkle them with a little pepper and 
salt an hour before broiling them. 

Asparagus, to Boil. 

The special pots now sold are a great boon to 
lovers of asparagus, because in them asparagus can 
be boiled vertically. The asparagus should be put 
in upright, with the points at the top. Then, if the 
salted water is kept very fast boiling at a level not 
much more than half the height of the asparagus, 



TEMPTING DISHES. 75 

it may be given more than double the usual time, 
which is a great advantage, because the lower part 
is made tender and edible, while the frail green 
portion is never touched by the water, and takes its 
due time to soften and swell without losing shape. 
Forty minutes will not harm them. There is an 
asparagus saucepan sold by Wilson & Co., Wardour 
Street, in which it is impossible to cook them any- 
thing but perfectly. 

Spinach, to Cook. 

Boil the spinach with vety little water, and put 
it into a saucepan with a little butter, pepper and 
salt, an eggspoonful of castor sugar ; thicken with a 
little flour, and then add a little cream and let it 
boil. 

HSgSy to Poach. 

Just a drop of vinegar should be put into the 
water, which should be boiling before the eggs are 
put into it After each egg has been put into the 
pan the water should reboil before another egg is 
put into it ; and the eggs should be rinsed in fresh 
hot water when they are cooked. 

Baking. 

To bake properly and get the oven properly 
and quickly hot the flues must be very clean. 

The oven should be heated to a temperature 
above that of boiling water, and it must be perfectly 
hot at starting. The ventilator should be shut at 
first, but in about ten minutes' time it should be 
opened. Meat should be baked on a proper tin, 



76 TEMPTING DISHES. 

that is a double one, and placed on a gridiron in 
the upper tin, and the under tin filled with hot 
water. The joint must be basted every fifteen 
minutes and done as quickly as possible, as the 
oven-door should not be kept open. If one side is 
getting more brown than the other, turn it round. 
Keep the fire up so that the oven is kept hot all 
the time. Meat baked requires ten minutes for 
every pound to cook it ; if there be much fat, it will 
take a little longer. Do not bake meat and pastry 
at the same time, as the steam renders the crust 
heavy. 

Boiling. 

The water must be violently boiling and the 
meat suddenly put into it, and the boiling must not 
be stopped by the insertion of the meat, but must 
continue incessantly for from ten to fifteen minutes, 
after which it should be reduced to a simmer till 
done. The scum rising to the top must be skimmed 
off from time to time ; a little salt should be put 
into the water when about half-done. This rule for 
boiling meat does not apply to fish, as nearly all 
kinds, especially turbot and cod, must be put into 
cold water and brought to a boil gradually. Salmon 
and trout are best put into boiling water, and 
soles and all small fish into warm water only. 

Broiling. 

The fire for broiling should be hot and clear ; 
the gridiron should be close down on the fire, and 
gradually raised as cooking proceeds. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 77 

Frying. 

To fry properly, plenty of boiling fat must be 
used and enough to cover whatever is being fried, 
and it must be hot enough to colour a piece of 
bread directly it is thrown in — in fact, the fat should 
smoke. Everything should be dried before it is 
fried, and if plunged then into hot fat, a very little 
time is sufficient to cook it When the crackling 
ceases it shows the fat is hotter than water. 

All fried things should be well drained when 
taken off the grid, and the fat should be poured 
into a basin containing a little hot w&ter and let 
stand till it is cold, when it will do to use again and 
again if the part next the water is scraped to take 
off the impurities which will collect there. 

Roasting. 

The fire and utensils should be thoroughly hot 
at starting ; for if not, and the temperature is only 
very warm, the effect is to soften and to sodden the 
surface of the meat, from which it will not recover 
afterwards ; and the result would be the meat would 
be drained of a large portion of its vital elements, 
leaving the surface soft to the end, and destitute of 
the brownness which is the sign of well-roasted 
meat 

It is very important the meat should be well 
basted at intervals of about twenty minutes, and it 
should be done quickly and not too often. 

Stewing. 

Meat to be stewed should be put into cold 
water or cold stock, and set on a good fire till it 



7ft TEMPTING DISHES. 

simmers. It must never get beyond simmering or 
it will spoil. It is a very slow process, extending 
to many hours, to a whole day or even two days. 
The water must not boil. The water must be kept 
nearly boiling, and when it is in this state little 
infinitesimal small bubbles will appear every now 
and then at the edges, and it must never be allowed 
to get beyond that point The time for simmering 
should be from ten to twelve minutes for every 
pound of meat. 



Hints to Cooks 

Salted and dried meats should be slowly boiled, 
and liquid must not be allowed to cool in pewter 
vessels. 

Rapid boiling hardens meat 

Fat for frying must be perfectly fresh. 

Fresh trimmings of meat should be used in the 
stock pot. 

Avoid skewers in meat as much as possible. 

Always blow off the dust before removing the 
lid of a saucepan. 

Never leave anything in the pot after it has 
boiled. 

Never throw animal or vegetable substances into 
the dust-bin, they should be burnt on the kitchen 
fire. 

Have a time and place for everything. 

Cold meat is best if not cut when warm. 

Fresh vegetables will snap crisply. Stale ones 
will bend instead of break. 

Meat can be preserved in summer by covering 
it with bran. 



TEMPTING DISHES. 79 

Cooking utensils should always be wiped dry 
after using. 

Meat should never be washed, but wiped with a 
dry cloth. 

Cooking for dinner should commence early in 
the day, for hurry and good cooking can never go 
together. 

Be careful in dishing vegetables to drain them 
perfectly from the water. 

Meat should always be kept in a current of 
air. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING AND IN 
THE KITCHEN 

AUemande : Reduced white sauce thickened with cream and yolks 

of egg and seasoned with lemon-juice. 
AngtUca : A preserve used for decorating. 
Aspki A savoury jelly. 
Assiette : Small entr&s and hors-d'ceuvres, not more than a plate 

will hold. 
Assuttes volantesi Dishes handed and not put on the table. 
AtelHs : Small silver skewers used in garnishing. 
Au hku; Fish dressed in such a manner as to have a bluish 

appearance. 
Augras : Dressed with meat gravy. 
Aujus : In the natural juice or gravy. 
Au naiureli Plain simple cooking. 
Baba : A kind of light sweet cake. 
Bcdn^marU : A metal pan which has a loose bottom to hold water, 

into which small saucepans can be put for keeping wann. 
Barok : A thin slice of faX bacon placed over steaks, fowls, &c., 

instead of larding. 
Batterie de cuisine : A complete set of necessary apparatus for all 

culinary purposes. 
Bkhamel : A rich white sauce made with cream. 
Beigfut : A pancake or fritter. 
Bisque : A soup made with shell fish. 
Blanc : White broth. 
Blanch : To parboil, to scald vegetables, &c., in order to remove 

skins, &C., and to whiten poultry. 
BlanqucUei A kind of fricass^ made with white sauce awl 

Uiickened with yolk of epr. 
Bligntr : To fritter anything m buttered egg and fiy. 
Bcudin : A rich mixture of difierent meats minced. 
Bouiili : Beef much boiled. 
Bouilkn : A thin soup or broth. 

Bouquet : Simply parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf tied together. 
Bouquet garni : The same with Uie addition of doves. 
Bomguignote : A ragoflt of truffles. 
Braise : Meat eook^ with bacon m a closely covered itewpan, to 

prevent evaporation. 

G 



«i TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Braisih^i A saucepan with ledges to the lid, so as tc put 6re on the 

top. 
Brider : To trass fowls with a needle and thread. 
Brioche : A kind of light spongy <»ke. 
Buisson : A cluster or bush of anything piled on a dish. 
CalUpash : The. glutinous flesh of the turtle found on the upper 

shell. 
Callipee : The same found on the under shell. 
CanneUms : Small rolls of anything filled with meat, fruit, or minces. 
Capiloiadei A hash of poultry. 
Caramel I Burnt sugar. 

Ctisserole : A crast of rice, which, having been moulded to the re- 
quired shape, is filled with mince, fricassee, &c. 
Charlotte : Thin slices of bread steeped in clarified butter and placed 

in a plain mould with fruit or cream. 
Chartreuse : An ornamental entr^ composed chiefly of quenelle 

forcemeat and arranged in a plain mould. 
Chemiser : To line a mould. 
Civet : A dark thick stew. 
Compote : Stewed firuits served with syrup. 
ConJUure : Preserves, sweets, jams, &c. 
C(msommi : Strong clear gravy or broth. 
Contisii Small scallops of traffics, tongue, &c., inlaid as ornaments 

by incision in fillets of any kind. 
CouUs : A rich brown gravy. 

Couronne, en : To dish up entr^s in the form of a crown. 
Croquantes : A bright mixture of fruit and boiled sugar. 
Croquettes : Minces of meat, fish, or fowl made into various shapes, 

rolled in egg and bread-crumbs and fried crisp. 
Croustades : Fried shapes of bread upon which various entrte are 

served. 
Croutons : Fried sippets of bread used for garnish. 
Dariole : A sweet tart baked in a mould. 
Daube, en : Meat, fowl, or game stewed in sauce. 
Daubiire : An oval stewpan. 
Disosser : To bone poultry, game, fish, &c. 
Entrie : Dishes handed round after the fish, comprising cutlets, 

salmis, chartreuses, and all made dishes, &c. 
Entremets : Second-course dishes, comprising dressed v^etables, 

savouries, and sweets of all kinds. 
Escalopes : Collops, small thin round pieces of meat, poultry, or fish. 
Espagnole : Brown sauce, very rich. 

Fagot : A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay leaf. 
Fanchonnettes : Varieties of small pastry meringued over. 
Farce : Forcemeat stuffing. 
Farciei Stuffed. 
Feuilletage : Rough paste. 



AND IN THE KITCHEN. «3 

Flair : A French custard. 

Flambtr : To singe fowls or game. 

Flans : Varieties of French cheese cakes. 

Florentines : Light pastry iced over. 

Fencer : To put slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of the sauce 

pan. 
Fondue : A cheese dish of the souffle order. 
Fricandeaux : A dish of lamb or veal cookery, &c., without bone 

larded and glazed with a concentration of their own liquor. 
Fricassiei Chickens, &c., cut in pieces and cooked in rich whita 

sauce with mushrooms and other accessories. 
Fritter : Anything made in batter and fried. 
Galette : A broad thin cake, a kind of muffin. 
G&teau : A cake. 
Gaufres : Light spongy biscuits. 
Glaci : Anything iced. 
Glaze : Stock boiled down to jelly. 
Godi'veau : A variety of forcemeats. 
Gra'i : Made with meat. 

Graiin : A forcemeat made with meat and thin pan6e. 
Gratiner : To grill. 

Haricot : A stew made with mixed vegetables and meat. 
Hors-cPoeuvres : These are appetisers, or whets to the appetite, and 

eaten before soup, and consist of sardines, oysters, and anchovies, 

caviare, foreign dried sausages, &c. 
lardinitre : Vegetables stewed in their own sauce. 
Lardoon : The strips of bacon used for larding. 
Liaison : A mixture of cream and egg, used to thicksn with. 
Lit : Thin slices in layers with seasoning between. 
Luting : A paste made of flour and water and used to fasten on the 

lids to pie-pans when preserving game, in order to prevent 

evaporation. 
Mcuidoine : A mixture of vegetables with the addition of some 

kind of sauce. 
Macidoine of fruit : A mixture of fruits in syrup. 
Madeleine : A kind of queen cake ornamented with preserve and 

sugar, &c. 
Maigre : Without meat. 
Mcuk : To cover meat over with forcemeat, &a 
Matelote : A rich fish stew made with wine. 
Mayonnaise : Salad dressing. 
Mazarine : An ornamental entr^A 
Menu : Bill of fare. 

Meringues : Light pastry made with whites of egg and sugar. 
Mirlitofis : Varieties of French cheese-cakes. 
Miroton : Slices of meat, larger than collops, stewed in rich sauce 

and dished up in a round. 



«4 TERMS USED IN COOKING, ETC. 

MouilUr : To add broth or water during cooking. 
Nougat : A mixture of almond and burnt sugar and lemon-juice 
Nouilles : Strips of paste made of eggs and flour. 
Panada I A mixture of bread, milk, &c;, used in making force- 
meats. 
Paner : To egg and bread-crumb. 
Papillotes : Greased paper fastened over fish and cutlets. 
pits : A small pie. 
Paupiettes : Slices of meat rolled. 
PUce de resistance : The principal joint of the dinner. 
Pilau : A dish of meat or poultry with rice. 
Piping : Sugar decorations used in ornamenting cakes, pastry, &a 
Piqui\ Larded. 
Pluchei Leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce^ &c, cut 

very small. 
PoilSe : Stock used instead of water for boiling. 
Potage : Soup. 

Printaniers : Early spring vegetables. 
ProfiteroUs : Light pastry with cream inside. 
Purie : Meat and vegetables reduced to a pulp and then mixed 

with other liquids to the consistency of thick soup. 
Quenelles : Delicate forcemeat formed into balls and poached. 
Ragoilt : Quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, &c., mixed in a rich sauce. 
Relevix The remove dishes. 
Rimolade : Salad dressing. 
Rissoles : Pastry made of light puff paste filled with minces and 

fried. 
Roux : A mixture of butter and flour used for thickening soups and 

sauces ; there are two kinds, white and brown. 
Salmi : A highly finished hash of game or wild fowl with a rich 

sauce. 
Salpicon : A mixture of different finely chopped meats. 
Sauce piquante : A sharp sauce, vinegar or lemon predominating. 
Sauter : To cook in a saucepan with sauce, constantly shaking it 
Serviette^ h la : Served up in a table-napkin. 
Sippets : Small pieces of bread cut into different shapes, fried and 

used for garnish. 
Souffli : A light pudding. 
Stock : The broth of wluch soups are made. 
Tamis, tammy : A strainer or fine sieve for straining broth, sauces, 

creams, &c., through. 
TimbaJe : A sort of pie made in S mould. 
Tourte : Tart fruit pie baked in a shallow dish. 
Trifle : A sweet dish made of sponge cake, macaroons, jam, wines, 

and liqueurs. 
7}'ousser : To truss. 
Velouti : A very rich white sauce. 



INDEX. 



Albert sandwiches, 33 
Anchovy cream toasts, 48 

— sauce, 66 
Apple compote, 32 
Apple fritters, 33 

— sauce, 56 
Apples k I'en&nce, 32 
Asparagus, to boil, 75 



Baked eggs, 48 
Baking, 75 
Banana fritters, 34 
Barley water, green, 73 
Batter puddings, 34 
Beef, fiUetsof, withmushroomsy 
10 

— hashed, with tomatoes, 10 

— trifles, II 
Beefsteak pudding, 11 

— stewed, 11 
Biscuits, crisp, 70 

— devilled, 54 
Blancmange chocolate, 35 
Bloaters' brains on toast, 49 
Bloater pur^, 49 

— roes, 49 

— stuffed, 49 
Boiling, 76 
Bread sauce, 66 
Breakfast dish, 50 



Brochet of smelts, $ 
Brodettooffish, 5 
Broiling, 75 



Cabbage k la cr^me, 50 

— and tomato, 50 

Calf's brains with black butter, 
12 

— head fritters, 12 
Cakes, cornflour, 70 

— drop, 70 

— gingerbread, 70 

— pound, 71 

— seed, 72 

— soda, 73 

— tea, 73 

Cannelons, French, 36 
Caper sauce, 66 
Carrot pudding, 34 
Celery, fried, $1 

— i la parmesan, 51 

— SOUJ), I 

Champignons k la Bordelaise, 

51 
Cheese cakes, lemon, 39 

— custards, 51 

— pudding, 52 

— tartlets, 52 
Chicken croustades, 13 

— cutlets, 13 



86 



INDEX. 



Chicken, firied, 13 
Chocolate blancmange, 35 

— pudding, 35 
Colcannon, 52 
Convent e^s, 53 
Cooking hints, 74 
Cornflour cake, 70 
Croustades of chicken, 13 
CroAtes ^ la campagne, 53 

— of haddock, 53 
Crumb pudding, 35 
Curried eggs on toast, 14, 54 
Curry, lamb*s head, 17 

— tomato, 29 
Cutlets, chicken, 13 

— egg, 14 

— lamb, 16 

— lobster, 17 

— potato, 24 



Devilled biscuits, 54 

— lobster, 54 

— sardines, 54 
Drop cakes, 70 
Duck, stewed, 70 
Dumplings, Norfolk, 40 

— yeast, 47 



Eel au gratin, 6 
Eels, stewed, 6 
Eggs, baked, 48 
—-a la bonne femme, 35 

— cutlets, 14 

— kromeskies, 15 

— and mushrooms, 35 

— sauce, 67 

— to poach, 79 
Empress rice, 36 
Epigram of lamb, 15 



Fig mould, 36 
— pudding, 37 

FUlets of beef with mush- 
rooms, 10 



Finnon haddock with eggi^ 

Fis^ quenelles, 6 
Floating bland, 37 
Frying, 76 



Gascony butter, 56 
General satisfaction pudding. 

Gingerbread cake, 70 
— pudding, 38 
Ginger wafers, 71 
Gooseberry fool, 58 
Grenada toasts, 56 



Haddock souffles, 7 
Ham balls, 56 
— toast, 56 
Haricot mutton, 15 
Hasty pudding, 38 
Hints to cooks, 78 
Horse-radish sauce, 67 



Jerusalem artichokes and 

cheese, 57 
Junket, 39 



Kidney fritters, 18 

— soup, 2 

— and tomato, 18 
Kromeskies, 19 



Lamb cutlets au parmesan, 16 

— epigram of, 15 
Lamb*s fry, 16 

— head curry, 17 
Lemon cheese-cakes, 39 

— pudding, 39 

— squash, 73 
^ tart, 40 

— whip, 40 
Lobster sauce, 67 



INDEX, 



87 



Macaroni k I'ltalienne, 57 
Mackerel with black batter, 7 
Meat firittersy 20 

— toast, 20 
Melted batter, 67 
Milanese timbale, 30 
Mushroom cutlets, 21 

— roulades, 26 

— au gratin, 58 
— ■ with toast, 58 
Mustard sauce, 68 

Mutton chops aux l^mes, 22 

— collops, 21 

— leg of, boned, 12 

— It la marini^, 22 

— en robe de chambre, 22 
Mussels k la Rochelle, 7 



Norfolk dumplings, 40 



Omelet, sweet, 47 
Onion soup, 2 
Onions k T^toile, 23 
Orange fool, 41 
— meringue pudding, 41 
< — pudding, 41 
Ojrster sauce, 68 



Paillbs de parmesan, 58 
Parsley sauce, 69 
Pear croquettes, 42 

— marmalade, 42 

— stewed, 43 
Pigeons en capote, 23 
Pippin tarts, 53 
Piquante sauce, 69 
Potatoes and bacon, 59 

— baked, with cheese, 59 

— cakes, 71 

<^ and cheese patties, 59 
^ cutlets, 24 

— and ham sandwiches, 59 

— k la Lyonnaise, 60 

— i la mattre d'hdtel, 60 



Potatoes, pufl^ 60 

— stuffed, 61 

— soup, 3 
Pound cakes, 71 
Prairie oyster, 73 
Pudding, batter, 34 

— beefeteak. 11 

— carrot, 34 

— cheese, 52 

— chocolate, 35 

— crumb, 35 

— % 37 

— general satis&ction, 37 

— gingerbread, 38 

— hasty, 38 

— lemon, 39 

— orange, 41 
meringue, 41 

— ratafia, 44 

— sausage, 27 

— Stanley, 47 

— Yorkshire, 32 



Rabbit, minced, 24 

— k la poulette, 25 

— k la Tartare, 25 
Ragouts, 25 
Raspberry trifle, 44 
Ratafia pudding, 44 
Rhubarb cream, 45 
Rice croquettes, 45 

— and cheese, 68 

— firitters, 45 

— with parmesan, 61 
Risotto, 26 

— k la Milanaise, 61 
Roasting, 77 
Rolled jellv cake, 45 

Rump steak 2i la bonne bouche, 
27 



Salmon, cold, to dress, 7 
Sardines, devilled, 54 
Sauce, anchovy, 66 
— apple, 66 



sa 



INDEX. 



Sauce, bread, 66 

— caper, 66 

— egg, 67 

— horse-radish, 67 

— lobster, 67 

— mustard, 68 

— onion, 68 

— oyster, 68 

— parsley, 69 

— piquante, 69 
Sausage pudding, 27 
Savoury moulds, 27 
Scones, 72 
Scotch fritters, 47 

— woodcock, 60 
Seed cake, 72 

Sheep's brains, roasted, 28 

— head au gratin, 28 
soup, 5 

Soda cake, 72 

Sole k TEspagnole, 8 

— au gratin, 8 

— fillet of, Italienne, 9 

JL la reine, 9 

Soup, celery, 1 

w- game, 3 



Soup, Italian, 1 

— kidney, 2 

— onion, 2 

— potato, 3 

— - a la Russe, 4 

— sheep's head, 5 
Spinach, to cook, 74 
Stanley pudding, 47 
Stewing, 77 



Tea cakes, 73 
Tomato curry, 29 
— salad, 65 

Tomatoes, preserved, 46 
Tongue pie, 29 
Tripe k la Fran9aise, 31 



Veal mould, 31 
Vegetable marrow an parme 
san, 65 



Yeast dumplinp[s, 47 
Yorkshire puddmg, 32 



PRINTED BY 

SPOtTlSWOODE AND CO. LTD., NEW-STREET SQUARE 

LONDON 



i 



