


Ik 




] / 



l>^ 



SlielfNo j 




k_ 



_^ 



?' 



V 




<3 

SEP 10 A 

f ^ '1 



This book is not in 
good condition. Please 
use it carefully. 

B. p. L. Form No. 403. 



SEP 1 4 



JUL 19 i9!4 



FEB 16 






STANDARD COOKERY BOOKS. 



MRS. BEETON'S HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 7s. 6d. 
MRS. BEETON'S FAMILY COOKERY BOOK. 5s. 
MRS. BEETON'S EVERY-DAY COOKERY. 3s. 6d. 
MRS. BEETON'S ALL ABOUT COOKERY. 2s. 6d. 
MRS. BEETON'S COOKERY BOOK. Is. 
MRS. BEETON'S ENGLISHWOMAN'S COOKERY. 6d. 
MRS. BEETON'S PENNY COOKERY BOOK. Id. 
THE ART OF PASTRY MAKING. 2.s. 6cl. 
TINNED FOODS: HOW TO USE THEM. 2s. 6d. 
LOUISA E. SMITH'S BONNES EOUCHES. Is. 6d. 
MARY HOOPER'S GOOD PLAIN COOKERY. Is. 
EDITH A. BARNETT'S COOKERY INSTRUCTOR. Is. 



London : WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Ltd. 



THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY 

cfrom a <£unt\} |Joinl of 0wfo 



THE 

PROFESSION OF COOKERY 

ifrom a ifri^ncl; goint 0f bicfo; 

fF/r// SOME ECONOMICAL PRACTICES 
PECULIAR TO THE NATION, 



BY 



LUCY H. YATES, 

LECTURER TO THE INTERNATIONAL HORTICULTURAL EXHIBITION 
COMMITTEE. 



' ^ 3 133 ^ 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, LIMITED, 

LONDON: WARWICK HOUSE, SALISBURY SQUARE, E.C 

NEW YORK AND MELBOURNE. 
1894 

[All rights 7-ese filed.] 






c c c t c c c 

^ c c c c c 

C "^fCCCCC c 

c c c ^r "^ <^ c 

cc c "-cccccc 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Economy as the Soul of Cookery , 1 

II. Soups and Purees .... 14 

III. Vegetables and Vegetable Dishes 28 

IV. Salads 45 

V. Sauces 59 

VI. The "Daubiere," or "Braisiere" . 75 

VII. Frying and " Saute "-ing. . 82 

VIII. Some Gateaux and Compotes . 89 

IX. "Maigre" Dishes .... 106 

X. Fricassees and Hechauffees . . 125 

XI. Some Little-used Vegetables. . 132 



viii CONTENTS. 



CHAPTEB PAOE 

XII. Leeks and Onions. . . . 140 

XIII. Tomatoes . . . . .146 

XIV. Mushrooms 153 

XV. Fruits '' en Salades " and Glaces 160 

XVI. Entrees and Entremets . . 167 

XVII. The Dejeuner a la Fourchette . 178 

XVIII. Menus for Small Dinners . . 185 

XIX. Choice Supper Dishes . . . 193 

XX. Addendum. Some strictly French 
Recipes not included in former 

chapters 2<JU 



THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. 



INTRODUCTORY. 

COOKERY lias long been tliouglit to be an 
art, and one also for wbicli a special gift 
is required, if an}- great degree of perfection 
tliereinis to be attained. 

This is perfectly true, and a tlioronglily good 
cook will be no mean ^^ artist ^^ in every sense 
of tbe word. 

But very few people, even among those who 
are daily employed in cooking, will give the 
same amount of patience and diligence to attain 
the distinction of meriting the term " artist ^^ in 
this most important of professions as they would 
give to gain a knowledge of music or painting, 
or to learn a language. 

And yet the preparation and serving of the 
food we eat, in a right or a wrong manner, is 



X THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. 

the very foundation of our home life ; not only 
does the health of the inmates greatly depend 
upon the cook, but their tempers and spirits 
also. 

It is just in this part of the household where 
what are commonly called '' brains '' tell to 
most advantage, and where, alas, they are most 
seldom thought to be needed. 

Upon method, skill, and economy in the 
kitchen depend so much the well-being of the 
household, and these can rarely be found where 
the kitchen is under the rule of a kitchen maid, 
or even of the modern ^^ good plain cook/' 

This department is as well worthy of the best 
considerations of every true ladij as any of the 
many ^' higher branches '^ which claim her atten- 
tion in the world to-day. 

The training — even the classical training — 
which she receives at school need never unfit, 
but rather make her the more apt a pupil when 
she gives the same amount of attention to learn 
this profession which she gave to mathematics. 

Brains tell everywhere, particularly in the 



THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. xi 



kitchen. If our girls and young ^7 omen would 
study cookery as tliey study French and German, 
starting from the A^ B, 0, and progressing 
upwards, step by step, studying it in all its 
branches until they might be said to have 
"graduated," there would then be hope that 
our kitchens might become as attractive to visit 
as the studio or the music room. 

The knowledge of how to save labour, and 
economise not only time, but strength — which 
is the real test of the practical from the theo- 
retical — in this profession as in all others, is 
only acquired by the earnest student. 

If the natural taste for this be dull, the more 
need to lay to it strength of will — resolution 
born of a just judgment of the importance of 
the knowledge she would acquire. 

On the other hand, however good her inten- 
tions may be, without this knowledge a great 
deal of toil will be needlessly expended ; the 
result mortification, and the heavy, wearing 
sense of inferiority that puts the novice so soon 
out of heart. 



xii THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. 



In treating cookery as a profession there will 
be found ample scope for various degrees of 
talent ; all who enter for it should be willino" to 
pay the premium and give the necessary time 
to learn it thoroughly. As the very lowliest 
occupation is dignified by the manner in which 
it is performed, so nothing is "^ menial " or 
beneath the attention of her who would excel 
or assist others to excel in this department of the 
world's work_, essentially the woman's province, 
where she reigns and rules by right of special 
fitness. 



THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. 



CHAPTER I. 

Economy as the Soul ot CooUeiw 

TRUE economy is tlie soul of good cookery. 
There is, perhaps, no word so little under- 
stood as this word economy. It is too often 
considered to mean parsimony, meanness, or stin- 
giness. It will invariably be found the better 
the cook the more economy will be practised. 

What a so-called '' good plain cook '' will 
throw away or consign to the dog-kennel, an 
ingenious French artiste will make into an 
entree or an entremet of the most tempting 
kind. 

The French are a nation of cooks, and they 
cannot afford to dine without soup ; yet in 
England, the most frequent excuse given for 

P.c. B 



2 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 

the absence of the soup is the cost as well as 
the trouble of preparing it. 

Sometimes it is urged that '^ We think soup 
disagrees with us," or ^'^ My husband can't take 
soup " : and yet no Frenchman, whatever his 
status in life, would think his meal complete 
without his ^^ potage." Is there any reason to 
suppose his digestive organs are constructed on 
a different plan to his brother Englishman's ? 

The real reason — when soup is found to dis- 
agree — may generally be traced to its over- 
strength. It is not intended to furnish solid 
nutriment, but to supply a want felt by most 
people for something warm and savoury to 
begin the meal with, and it will also be found 
to greatly lessen the thirst for drink after- 
wards, hence effecting a saving in the wine 
cupboard. 

Among the poor, a simple nourishing vege- 
table soup would be found of great value, 
largely dispensing with the, at present, almost 
inevitable jng of beer, to which recourse is had 
so frequently to ^^ wash down " or make up for 
a dinner often far from appetising. 

The saving, also, in the consumption of meat 
when soup takes the precedence, is no small 
argument in its favour. 



ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, 3 

Take, for example, tlie ordinary mid-day 
meal of tlie Frencli ^^ ouvrier." The soup pot 
has been put on the stove at an early hour; it 
contains carrots, turnips, potatoes, peas, hari- 
cots, leeks, etc., with a " bouquet'' (a variety of 
herbs) and sorrel in abundance ; the only thing 
of the nature of meat is a small piece of salted 
pork, and this, with plenty of water, is left to 
boil gently until required, often for several 
hours. 

The pork is almost dissolved by this time ; if 
not, it is cut very small, and returned to the 
pot, the contents of which go through the 
'^ passoir," or colander. It is well seasoned, 
and is then ready to pour into plates; sub- 
stantial, satisfying, and with a mighty hunch 
of bread, this forms the staple of his meal. If 
he be well off, a piece of meat and a salad may 
follow this ; but among the poor, a little fruit 
is thought quite sufficient. 

On Sundaj^s, high days, and festivals, he will 
partake of " bouillon "■ — a small piece of beef 
from the leg, boiled with the vegetables, but 
left clear this time, and the vegetables served 
on a separate dish — the meat served after- 
wards. 

Of course, in different parts of the country 



> 



4 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 

tliis simple menu may vary somewhat^, but in 
southern France^ wliere, if anywhere, economy 
is to be found in perfection^ it rarely consists 
of anything more. 

Among the peasants of the Vosges mountains 
it is still more simple, their diet, year in, year 
out, being mainly made up of potatoes, onions, 
and bread ; yet they are a hardy a sinewy race. 

The Swiss peasantry also greatly resemble 
their French neighbours in their diet, Avith the 
exception that they eat rather more meat — the 
colder climate naturally calls for it ; but true 
thrift, economy in small things, is characteristic 
of both nations. 

All nations may learn from one another ; as 
a rule, English people have much to learn in 
the art of thrifty cookery. They have not the 
faculty possessed by their neighbours across the 
silver streak, of makiuo* a deliofhtful some- 
thing out of the despised remains, too often, 
alas ! cast away as worthless. 

The thrifty bourgeoise, trotting along in the 
early morning with her market basket, would 
be horrified to see the English butchers' shops 
with their piles of stale scraps and trimmings 
all thrown to one side, -just beginning to go 
bad, and sending out an odour which makes the 



ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 5 

butcher's stall a trial to visit ; the fat portions 
and suet all mixed up together, while the prime 
joints are being lavishly cut off. 

One of the great French ^^ chefs '^ has said 
that English meat could not be surpassed ; 
when good, it needed no sauce with it, being of 
a richer quality itself. That is true, but only 
when one can purchase of the best. 

Take a butcher's shop in a provincial French 
town : your first thought on entering would be 
'^ how very little there is to buy/' and you see 
all there is too — each piece set out on a separate 
hook, the well scrubbed tables and counters ; 
while as to fat (!) there is scarcely a morsel to 
be had. 

Every part of the different animals has its 
own special destiny to fulfil, no portion is of 
greater honour than another. Madame's eye 
is ever on the watch for the morsels for her 
'^ragout," and the ^' marchand de f rites " has 
been beforehand with them all, collecting the 
suet for his frying-pan. 

Then, again, amongst the vegetables : Eng- 
lish vegetables are not inferior in quality, yet 
they lack the freshness and the crispness — also 
the cleanliness — which makes this part of the 
market so attractive to visit in French towns : 



6 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 

neither is tlie supply any tiling like wliat it 
ought to be. Perhaps the ^' Small Holdings 
Act" may cause a change for the better in this 
respect. 

In the present day, when the prices o£ pro- 
visions have so much increased, and still show 
an upward tendency, it is very needful for 
every family throughout the country to do all 
in their power to lessen the consumption of 
meat, thereby rendering it cheaper to those 
possessed of less wealth than themselves. It 
is a great mistake to depend too much upon 
meat. 

Where bones are thrown aw^ay, and fresh 
meat is bought for soup making, it is certain 
that much nutritive matter is absolutely wasted, 
which under better management might bo 
turned to good account. 

Of the many delicious and even charming 
dishes composed of vegetables, few, indeed, are 
much known in English households ; yet their 
medicinal value is great, while they satisfy the 
appetite, and save the pocket at the same time. 

A dainty ^^plat de legumes,^^ served either 
before or with the joint of meat, thereby acting 
as a damper to the appetite, would be found to 
be true economy, especially in houses wdiere 



ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 7 

healthy children call to be fed. The variety — 
ever capable of being extended — of these dishes 
call for chapters to themselves. 

AVith regard to economy in cookery, it will 
have been seen, therefore, that it consists not 
so much in living plainly, but rather in so 
managing and arranging the various dishes 
which compose the meal, that one shall spare 
the other — by the use of simple means, lessen- 
ing the consumption of the more expensive dish 
or joint. 

For the average housekeeper to do this easily 
and effectively, she must bear in mind at least 
two points : first, to keep herself an courant of 
the commodities which are in season ; the time 
when any article in the market is most plentiful 
and cheap will generally be found to be the 
time when it is most wholesome for food. 

'^ Early '' or forced varieties are rarely de- 
sirable for ordinary food, however tempting 
they may appear, and they are but seldom 
bought by the truly thrifty housekeeper. 

Throughout the winter months higher prices 
are demanded for several kinds of food, but 
the prudent and w4se will " forestall the 
market'^ in this respect, and lay in their stock 
while they are at the cheapest. 



8 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 

There are ways and means of storing most 
vegetables and fraits, even in households where 
keeping room is limited ; the main principle to 
be observed in storing perishable articles_, is to 
exclude the air from them. 

Another point to bear in mind, is to have the 
right quantity only, so far as can be judged, 
when providing for any particular dish. It is 
the *^ bits left over '^ which run away with the 
money. 

In the South it is sometimes lauo-hable to see 
how, when there happens to be a small portion 
left over, what skill is displayed in so turning 
it to account that it reappears under a fresh 
disguise, and forms a sensible addition to the 
next repast ; but, as a rule, it takes the patience 
and skill of a genuine Frenchwoman to accom- 
plish this feat. 

One great reason of the economy of French 
methods of cooking is to be found in the 
utensils employed by them, and not a little is 
due to the difPerent stoves. Of the latter there 
is a great variety. 

The " bourgeoise Parisienne ^^ has her char- 
coal stove, w4th its white tiles and the miniature 
baker's oven built in the wall; her roaster is 
quite a separate affair, resembling what is known 



ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 9 



in England as a ^^Dutcli oven/' bufc for all her 
only fuel is '' wood coal ''—'' cliarbon de bois/' 

By the way, these charcoal stoves are so easy 
to set up, and so useful for many purposes, that 
it is a marvel they are so little known in 
England. 

Built of brick, either in a recess or close to 
a kitchen wall; for neatness, the front and 
sides are covered with tiles, and the edges 
bound with iron. An opening a few inches 
square, with a grating above it, holds the char- 
coal, which lights rapidly and gives no smoke. 

When not in use, the grating can be covered 
with a loose tile, and the flat top will serve as 
an extra table. During the course of a dinner 
it will render astonishing service for sauces, side 
dishes, etc. ^ 

In most French kitchens one of these fur- 
naces is to be found, generally fitted with two 
or three gratings, and the " bourgeoise " will 
prefer to use it for her soup pot, rather than 
trust the latter to the more variable heat of her 
'^ cuisiniere.^' 

The true French cuisiniere, or range, is very 
different, and in many respects much superior 
to, as well as far simpler than, its English com- 
peer. 



\o ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 

With its brightly polished table-like top and 
light ornamentation^ it is an ornament to any 
roora^ and the consumption of fuel is so little — 
the heat being made to reach each part before 
it passes up the chimney — that it is wonderful 
such a clever inventive race as the English 
have yet so much to learn in the art of stove 
building. 

To see their ranges^ so heavily clamped and 
barred, one might think the food cooking there- 
in was expected to take to itself wings and fly 
away. 

Doubtless the labour attendant upon using 
these ranges is one reason why cooking is 
found to be such heavy work in middle- class 
households. 

Nearly all French cooking vessels are made 
either of glazed earthenware or enamelled iron. 
In great houses the housekeeper will proudly 
show her extensive " batterie de cuisine ^^ of 
immaculately shining copper; but these would 
be seldom used. 

Nothing is found to surpass tlie "terrine'^ 
or earthen cooking vessels ; they are long in 
reaching the boiling point, but they will retain 
the heat, and keep a more equable temperature 
longer than any other kind ; and this slow cook- 



ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, ii 



ing is an essential in most of tlieir metliods of 
cookery, particularly in soup making. 

The favourite form for the ^' pot-au-feu " is a 
very deep one with aflat bottom, not very wide, 
and the sides sloping upwards to a slightly 
narrower opening at the top with a well-fitting 
lid. This makes the perfection of bouillon. 

Where more rapid cooking is desirable, as in 
boiling of vegetables or sauces, nothing is found 
to equal enamelled iron, not easily burnt at the 
bottom, and quite easy to keep clean if only the 
cook will take the precaution of filling up the 
vessel with water immediately it is done with. 

As the enamel retains the heat longer than 
plain iron, whatever remains on the surface 
hardens very quickly, making it a diflScult 
matter to get off again once it is allowed to 
become dry. Where the enamel has become 
discoloured or stained, it may be made white 
again by boiling a little quicklime in the water. 

Sand and powdered pumice-stone are ex- 
cellent aids in cleaning saucepans, also earthen- 
ware vessels of all kinds. 

A French housewife has her regular cleaning 
day for all her kitchen utensils, which is as 
faithfully observed as her washing day. Every 
article which admits of being polished is taken 



\2 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 

down aud literally scnihhed with simd and strong 
soda water till it shines again; a final rinse in 
hot water, and a wipe with a clean towel before 
it is restored to its place. 

All tinware, iron, copper, or brass utensils 
are kept in excellent condition by this means; 
one or two hours' steady labour will suffice. 

French country people throughout the land, 
and even the townspeople in the southern towns, 
reckon to keep at least one pig; and this most 
useful animal is turned to good account. 

If he is not " the gintleman that pays the 
rint," he at least does a very largo share to- 
wards maintaining the family. 

Killed in the autumn, by pickling, drying, 
and various other methods of curing, his flesh 
provides meat for all the winter at least, and 
has the advantage of being always at hand 
should an emergency arise in the shape of an 
unexpected visitor. 

There are professional pig slayers and curers, 
whose sole business it is to do everything that 
is required in regard to the animal. They make 
the strings of sausages ready for smoking, the 
hams for curing, the " black puddings,'^ the 
" pates,'' .the " fromages de pore " ; prepare 
the pieces for the pickling tub, and, in fact, 



ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 13 

undertake all tlie trouble and responsibility 
connected witli tlie occasion. 

Then is tlie grand opportunity of the year 
for the good ^'menagere'^ to show her kind 
heart. 

There is the generous portion for the ^^cure^' 
or the " pasteur/' according as her faith dic- 
tates ; the gift to be bestowed on a less fortunate 
friend or neighbour ; and ^^ the poor man at the 
gate '' will not be overlooked. 

With her pig safely disposed of, another 
growing up in the pen, her vegetables well 
stored and housed^ her fruits preserved, and her 
^^ dame Jeanne ^^ of oil in the cellar, the '^ bonne 
bourgeoise ^^ is proof against invasion^ in what- 
ever form it may come. 

In this simple, homely fashion of living, an 
unexpected guest is ever a welcome addition to 
the family table. 



CHAPTER II. 

Soups ant) purees, 

IN starting on tlie subject o£ soups in general, 
it will be well to classify tliem under three 
divisions : Clear, thickened, and '^ purees/^ or 
vegetable soups. 

The distinction between thickened soup and 
a puree, lies in the fact of the former owing its 
consistency to the introduction of some artificial 
substance, such as rice, tapioca, flour, etc., while 
the puree is made by carefully pressing all the 
ingredients through a "tamis,'^ or wire sieve. 

Pea soup is really puree of peas, tomato soup 
puree of tomatoes, etc. 

AVhen rice, vermicelli, or macaroni are added 
to a clear soup or stock, they should have been 
previously boiled in w^ater, otherwise they will 
be apt to give a cloudy appearance to the soup. 

Clear soup may be simply ^* bouillon,'^ or 
broth, from beef, mutton, or veal, or it may be 



SOUPS AND PUREES. 15 

stock made from bones, or, again, the stock 
from shin of beef or veal. 

The same principle of cooking applies to each 
and all — to bring it very slowly to boiling point, 
and never to let it boil hard. 

Many French cooks put the meat intended for 
bouillon on the stove in nearly cold water, even 
when it is intended to be eaten afterwards ; 
but where it is deemed preferable to keep a 
little more flavour in the meat, it should wait 
until the water nearly boils, then be plunged 
into the pot, and quickly come to boiling point 
again, after which it should be drawn aside 
from the fire, the vegetables added (either 
whole or merely split in two), the little bunch 
of herbs securely tied, then allowed to boil very 
gently for two or three hours. 

It is not customary to serve any vegetables in 
the tureen with true French bouillon — they are 
placed on a dish, and handed round, or reserv^ed 
to be eaten with the meat. 

When making a broth from veal, it may be 
treated in the same way, only as veal takes a 
less time to cook, and soon becomes soft, it is 
better to remove it when sufficiently done, and 
make a different dish altogether of the meat. 

When using shin of beef or veal, it would be 



i6 SOUPS AND PUREES. 



wasteful to treat it as the otlier parts of boiling 
meat, as it contains really more nutritious 
matter, wliicli takes a mucli longer time to be 
extracted. It should be placed in a deep brown 
jar, and be relegated to tlie far corner of the 
oven, and left to cook for several hours ; then 
carefully pour away all the liquor from it into 
a clean vessel, and put in a cold place. 

When vegetables are required to be added to 
this, they should be boiled apart, never in this 
stock, which merely requires warming up as it 
is needed. 

The meat, if carefully separated from all skin 
and gristle, liberally seasoned, and pounded in 
a mortar, makes very presentable potted meat, 
quite good enough for every-day family use. 

Clear sonp is also made from bones, cooked 
or uncooked, odds and ends of meat, and the 
carcases of poultry. Always bear in mind that 
it is stoch, and to be treated as such. 

No scraps or bones need ever be wasted. 
Chop all bones with a hatchet into very small 
pieces. All dry corners and trimmings of meat 
are valuable also, particularly if they are hroiun. 

In soup made of this stock, vegetables may 
be added in a variety of ways. Cut very small 
indeed, and frizzled in a little clear fat till they 



SOUPS AND PUREES. 17 

are just brown^ then it is known as '''Julienne 
soup ^^ ; or cut small^ and plain boiled, then it 
is •' consomme ^^ (either with or without the 
addition of rice and a little brown gravy) ; 
or the carrots may be grated^ the remaining 
vegetables cut into dice. 

It is to this kind of stock, also, that macaroni 
and vermicelli are added, and the same stock 
forms the foundation of mulligatawny and the 
richer kinds of soup, which properly come under 
the division of thickened soups. 

If a thickened soup is still required clear, it 
may be kept so by using tapioca or potato-flour 
as the thickening medium. 

If tapioca be added early enough, it will 
completely dissolve and become perfectly 
smooth ; sago is a similar agent, but it never 
quite loses its grain, neither is it quite so clear. 
If ever ordinary flour be nsed, it will be found 
a great improvement to first bake it in the oven. 

There are many thickening agents sold by 
grocers, but few of them are to be trusted ; it 
is better to compound one's own, although it 
may take more time to do it. 

Bread is an ingredient very largely used both 
in France and Switzerland in soup making ; 
either put in the pot with the vegetables, and 

p.c. c 



i8 SOUPS AND PUREES. 

allowed to dissolve, or cut into dice and deli- 
cately browned in butter, then put in the tureen 
for the soup to be poured upon it, it forms a 
substantial addition to, and greatly increases 
the nourishing properties of the " potagc/^ 

Now we come to consider the purees — true 
vegetable soups. 

The first desideratum in the making of a 
successful puree is patience on the part of the 
cook, for upon the patient rubbing of all the 
ingredients through the sieve will hang all the 
quality of the soup. It is by no means labour 
spent in vain. 

The most common vegetable soup is the kind 
known as '^ Soupe a la Bataille,'^ as all the 
vegetables are supposed to bo fighting with 
each other. 

With many people this is a foundation soup, 
and is varied by adding a larger quantity of 
the particular vegetable which is to give it its 
name for the day — more peas, if it is called pea 
soup, etc. 

In the south of France a vegetable puree will 
have nothing but a little onion and a few savoury 
herbs added to its main ingredient. 

Lentils, peas, haricots, beans, and potatoes 
are the most frequently used for purees. They 



SOUPS AND PUREES. 19 

are all rendered mucli richer and smoother to 
the taste if one or two beaten yolks of eggs are 
added the last thing before bringing to the 
table. 

When a white soup is desired, milk or cream 
is added, and the latter should be made hot in 
a saucepan before putting into the tureen. 

Turnips, chestnuts, potatoes, Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, vegetable marrows, and white haricot 
beans, all make most delicious white soup. 

The vegetables are indeed few in number 
which are not pressed into the service of the 
soup pot in one form or another. 

In green soups, where it is desirable to keep 
the colour nice, it is well to put the green 
vegetables in boiling water with a little salt 
added, and a grain of carbonate of soda, and 
let the cover of the pot be tilted to allow the 
steam to escape. 

A delicate potage, and one which is con- 
sidered a specific for indigestion by the good 
people of the south, is made as follows : — A 
good slice of white bread is cut into dice, and 
put in the tureen, four eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately; with the yolks four spoon- 
fuls of olive oil are mixed, and this is poured 
over the bread. 



20 SOUPS AND PUREES. 

A quart of water is boiled with a few shallots, 
a clove and a peppercorn or two, into this the 
beaten whites are stirred, and a few spoonsful 
of cold milk ; the whole is then poured into the 
tureen, and quickly mixed together. 

This is called an " eau bouillie/' 

As there are but few things, whether of fish, 
flesh, fowl, or vegetables which will not lend 
themselves to soup making, given a fair intelli- 
gence with patience, industry, and cleanliness 
on the part of the cook, the variety is almost 
inexhaustible to the student of this branch of 
the profession. 



Potato Soup. 

For a quart of soup, boil three or four 
medium-sized potatoes, then mash them quite 
smooth, and put them into the stewpan with 
nearly the quantity of boiling water. Remove 
the outer skin from a large white onion, melt 
a small lump of butter, then slice the onion 
into it and let it stew until perfectly tender, 
but not brown. When done, dredge a little 
baked flour over, to absorb the butter, then stir 
this gradually into the boiling liquor ; add salt 



SOUPS AND PURP.ES. 21 

and pepper to season it well, and let it boil 
gently until required. Just before pouring into 
the tureen stir in two tablespoonfuls of hot cream, 
and a teaspoonful of dried and sifted parsley. 

To improve the appearance of the soup, a 
whole carrot may be boiled at the same time 
as the potatoes, then cut into fr.ncy shapes and 
rounds and added to the whole. The beaten 
yolk of an Qg'g, and a little n.ore butter, will 
make the soup very much richer. 

Brown Onion Soup. 

A little clear stock is required for this. 

Skin two or three large onions, slice them as 
thinly as possible, and fry them until thoroughly 
tender and well browned in a little beef dripping. 
Drain them. Make the stock almost boiling hot 
in your stewpan. Mix a little baked flour with 
the dripping in the frying pan, stir it over the 
fire to brown it. Add this gradually to the 
stock, see that it is perfectly smooth. Add the 
onions next, and leave it to simmer for half an 
hour. Remove all fat from the surface, add salt, 
pepper, a spoonful of sharp sauce, same of 
mushroom ketchup, and a drop of caramel if it 
be not brown enough already. Serve over 
fried croutons. 



22 SOUPS AND PUREES. 



Tomato Soup. 

Use either fresli or tinned tomatoes. 

Melt two ounces of fresli butter, and frizzle 
first a few chopped shallots, or one white onion. 

Next skin half a dozen fine tomatoes, and 
slice them into the butter, and stew them thus 
until quite dissolved. Have a quart of water, 
or the same quantity of clear broth, ready in the 
stewpan. When it boils throw in the white part 
of a slice of bread cut into dice. Add the con- 
tents of the smaller stewpan to this, let all 
simmer together for awhile, then pour through 
a strainer, rubbing the ingredients well that 
nothing good may be left behind. 

Return to the stewpan, season it well, stir in 
the yolk of an egg beaten up in a cup of milk, 
let it nearly boil again, then serve. 

Watercress Soup. 

Boil half a pint of white haricots until 
thoroughly tender, rub them through a fine 
strainer, and add a quart of boiling water to 
the puree thus obtained. 

Chop up quite finely a large bunch of washed 
and picked watercress, — and also a handful of 
green chives, a bunch of spring onions, some 



SOUPS AND PUREES. 23 

chervil^ parsley, sorrel, — in fact anything green 
wliicli yoa ma}^ be able to obtain. 

Melt two ounces of fresli butter, frizzle the 
chopped green stuffs in this until they show 
signs of turning colour, then stir them briskly 
into the liquor in the stewpan. Season well. 

The soup ought to be sufficiently thickened 
by the haricots, but if not, wet a teaspoonful 
of potato flour and stir that in, letting the liquor 
boil up once afterwards. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Clear stock from mutton, beef or veal ; pour 
boiling water over a small ciuantitjT- of thin ver- 
micelli; then drain it, and cut into short lengths 
with a sharp knife, and throw into the stock. 
Cut quite small one carrot, half a head of celery, 
and half a dozen fine leeks. Let these all boil 
until tender in a separate vessel ; then add 
them to the stocky and season it well. 

If macaroni be added instead of vermicelli, 
let it boil separately in a saucepan for twenty 
minutes; then drain and add to the stock. 

Should it be preferred that the soup be 
thickened, use a spoonful of brown roiix for 
the purpose; and cook the vegetables in a 



24 SOUPS AND PUREES. 

little clarified fat instead of water. Add tlie 
macaroni or vermicelli the last of all. 

White Stock Soup. 

A quart or more of stock made from knuckle 
of vealj chicken or ham bones. Boil an onion 
and a turnip in a small quantity of thig^stock ; 
when tender, chop them up finely, and add 
them to the remainder of the clear liquor. Boil 
half a pint of fresh milk, and thicken it with a 
tablespoonful of potato flour previously wetted ; 
stir it into the stock, season with salt, pepper, 
and a grate of nutmeg, and just before serv- 
ing, stir in half an ounce of fresii butter. 

Puree of Haricot Beans. 

Let the beans soak over night ; set them on 
with sufiicient water to cover them, and boil 
them for three or four hours. Rub them 
through a sieve, leaving nothing but skins be- 
hind j to every pint of the puree thus obtained 
add a pint of boiling milk. Season liberally; 
chop a few shallots very finely, and cook them 
in a little butter ; dredge a little flour over them 
to absorb the butter, then stir into the puree. 
Add a tablespoonful of cream before bringing 
to table. 



SOUPS AND PUREES. 25 

When fresh. " button ^' mushrooms are obtain- 
able, a score of them may be skinned ; then 
gently boiled for a minute or two, drained, and 
added to the soup. 

Puree of Peas or Lentils. 

Soak these also for a couple of hours. Boil 
them in the right quantity of water required 
for the soup. When beginning to dissol^re, 
strain through a sieve as before, and return to 
the stewpan. Crumble a little stale roll into 
this liquor, and season with pepper and salt. 

Chop finely half a dozen fresh spring onions 
or leeks, a bunch of fresh sweet herbs, and a 
few leaves of spinach. Cook these in a little 
butter, then stir into the puree. 

Puree of Turnips and Parsnips. 

Pare half a dozen sound white turnips, and 
half as many parsnips ; add to them half a head 
of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a dozen 
leeks, and an onion. 

Boil all together in a quart of water for three 
hours. Strain and rub all well throuo-h a 

o 

colander. Return to the pan ; add enough 
boiling milk to make up the required quantity. 



SOUPS AND PUREES. 



season well, and stir in a tablespoonful of 
cliopped parsley. 

Jerusalem Artichoke Soup 

is made very similarly to the above^ substituting 
the artichokes for the turnips. 

Puree of Carrots. 

Use clear stock made from bones or shin of 
beef. 

Grate a large carrot; chop finely a red onion, 
and skin two or three tomatoes. Let all these 
stew tosfether in a covered vessel with a little 
clear beef dripping, until thoroughly cooked. 
Then stir them into the heated stock; skim off 
superfluous fat, season well, and crumble a 
French roll into the liquor. Let all come to 
boiling-point ; then pour over a few fried 
croutons in the tureen. 

Gamekeeper*s Potag*e. 

From the remains of game and poultry the 
following savoury soup may be made. Cut off 
any nice firm parts of meat, and reserve them 
for frying. 

Make a stock from bones and trimmings, 
adding carrots, turnips, onions, herbs, and 



SOUPS AND PUREES. 



whole peppercorns to tlie pot ; let tliis cook 
many hours. Strain the stock and remove all 
fat. Cut the meat into small neat pieces; roll 
in reasoned flonr^ and brov>"n them well in a 
frj'ing-pau. 

Place the meat in the stock, and let that 
merely simmer. Frizzle a minced onion in the 
same fat until brown, then dredge a little 
baked flour over, sprinkle with salt, add a pinch 
of dried sage, and a drop of caramel ; stir these 
into the stock, then let all simmer for half an 
hour, and serve at once. 

It should be of the consistency of cream, 
highly seasoned, and of a light brown colour. 

A spoonful of vinegar is a great improvement 
to thickened and much seasoned soups. 

All soups should be seasoned sufficiently 
before taking them to table ; it is most objec- 
tionable to find them requiring salt before they 
can be eaten at all. 



CHAPTER 111. 

Degetables anb WcQctaUc Disbes* 

VEGETABLES, as a rule, are not suffici- 
ently appreciated amongst English peo- 
ple, neither are they cultivated in the quantity 
and variety, nor exposed for sale with the 
cleanliness and care which make this part of 
a continental market so attractive to visit. 

A well prepared dish of vegetables tempt- 
ingly arranged, with an eye to contrast of 
colour, may often be served in place of a dish 
of meat ; particularly in large families would it 
be found most economical, sparing the joint, 
and frequently obviating the necessity for a 
second dish of meat ; or if served cold, as a 
salad, will prove a most acceptable accompani- 
ment where cold meat is a dreaded dish. 

The medicinal virtues of fresh, well-dressed 
vegetables are great ; they are blood purifiers, 

28 



VEGETABLES AXD VEGETABLE DLSHES. 29 

as well as being easy of digestion, and most 
nutritious. 

If freshly gathered out of the garden, they 
should be washed as they are wanted, and not 
allowed to remain in water: but when bouo^ht 
in town, it is often needful not only to wash, 
but to soak them in water for some time, to re- 
gain something of their original freshness. 

If not the happy possessor of a bit of garden 
ground (and it is wonderful, with careful man- 
agement, how much may be got out of ever so 
small a piece), it is a wise plan to treat with a 
farmer or cottage gardener for a regular 
supply. 

To buy in shops or of costermongers is not 
cheap, besides the certainty that your purchase 
has suffered considerable handling before it 
reached you. 

If laid on the floor of a cool cellar, takino* 
care they do not touch each other, and are not 
wet at the time, vegetables may be kept quite 
good for a week in summer time ; but in the 
autumn, when the crops are gathered in, a 
frugal housewife will lay in her store : carrots, 
turnips, parsnips, beetroot, potatoes, and such- 
like are best kept in dry sand. 

Celery and leeks keep quite fresh if put in a 



30 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 

box of eartli; onions should be strung together, 
and hung up. 

In nearly all dishes and soups made of vege- 
tables, herbs play an active part, particularly 
sorrel and parsley. 

During spring and summer they are easily 
obtained fresh, but for winter use the parsley 
should be dried in bunches, as likewise a supply 
of mint, thyme, marjoram, sage, and, in fact, 
any herb you can procure. 

The secret of keeping dried herbs a good 
colour is to dry them very quickly and 
thorouorhlv, hans: them as near the kitchen 
stove as possible ; when dry, rub them through 
a tamis, and bottle for use. 

Sorrel is gathered in large quantities, and 
boiled like spinach, with coarse salt, then kept 
in a deep stone jar. 

In cooking vegetables, it is most important to 
keep them a good colour, particularly in cook- 
ing ^^greens.^^ 

To do this, it is needful always to place them 
in boiling salt and water, and leave the lid of 
the saucepan slightly tilted, to let the steam 
escape. 

For white vegetables, such as turnips, cauli- 
flowers, salsifies, etc., the same precautions 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 31 

should be observed, and a little vinegar be 
added to the water. 

A French cook will frequently take these out 
of the water when only partly cooked, and let 
them finish by simmering them in white sauce ; 
this keeps them a very good colour indeed. 

Any vegetables if cooked more than the 
proper time will soon become soddened ; they 
should be lifted out of the water the moment 
they are done. 

And now we come to consider vegetable 
dishes proper. 

Here there is scope for much of taste and 
judgment, and the artistic eye of the lady cook 
as well as the skilled hand of the professional, 
for upon the arrangement of colour depends 
much of the success of the dish. 

Take, for instance, a ^^ plat de carrottes,'' 
with its pretty contrast of white and red and 
green, or the creamy whiteness of " choufleurs 
a la creme,^^ and the very pretty dish of spinach 
with the white and yellow eggs reposing on their 
dark green bed, and say if it is not so. 

The *' garniture '' of these dishes will call for 
as much taste as the arrangement of a bouquet. 

Finely chopped parsley is the cook's grand 
resource in nearly all these compounds, and 



32 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 

truffles^ capsicums, eggs_, even flowers, all are 
pressed into the service of ornamentation. 

As it is the custom in France to serve most 
vegetables as a separate course, quite as much 
care is given to their preparation as to a 
coarse of meat, and various are the forms they 
are made to make ; the sauces which accompany 
or disguise them, and the dressings which, if 
served cold, transform them into delicious 
salads. 

A green vegetable, or " dish of greens," 
served as an English cook sends them to table, 
would in a French cuisine be considered quite 
an anomaly ; there they would, after being well 
drained, be tossed up in butter, seasoned, some 
fragrant herbs added, and, generally, fried 
bread would be sent up with them. 

Peas, haricots, broad beans, cabbages, and 
cauliflowers are certainly improved by this 
treatment, so are potatoes ; and white sauce, 
either with or without parsley, is a frequent 
accompaniment to these and many other kinds 
of vegetables. Some, again, after being par- 
tially boiled, are fried in batter, as salsify and 
parsnips ; these make an excellent luncheon or 
supper dish. 

When onions are used, they should be first 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 33 

lightly and quickly browned in fat_, then drawn 
away from the fire^ and allowed to cook slowly 
under cover; this draws the juices out, and 
makes tlicui very much more easy of digestion. 

Yegetables_, if added to " ragouts '^ of meat, 
make them very much more savoury, and 
greatly economise the amount of meat. Car- 
rots accord best with beef, turnips and parsnips 
best with mutton and veal, while tomatoes suit 
all meats. 

Remnants of cold meat, which are often a 
source of perplexity to the economical house- 
keeper, may, with a judicious use of very 
simple means, be turned into many a delicious 
dish. 

Green artichokes and asparagus are delicious, 
and do not come within the reach of the poor 
man, except he have a garden ; but Jerusalem 
artichokes are both cheap and delicate, also 
very nourishing. Mushrooms, either stewed or 
broiled, are the delight of all classes^ and well 
replace a dish of meat. 

The forms which potatoes may be made to 
assume are almost legion ; while a good potato 
may be spoiled by bad cooking, an inferior one 
may, with proper management, be rendered 
comparatively good. 

P.O. D 



54 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 



Large quantities of this most useful vegetable 
are constantly wasted in many families^ owing 
to the way in which they are dressed. 

How is it that the stalls of the ^^ marchand 
de pommes-de-terre frites '^ are never seen in 
England^ while they are so common in France^ 
where they do a thriving trade ? 

Vegetables are not usually associated with 
"sweet dishes"; but tlie cook who has once 
succeeded in making a vegetable plum-pudding, 
will find it a formidable rival to her very best 
and most time-honoured recipe. 

It is an open secret that turnips and veget- 
able marrows are in great request in the large 
jam and marmalade factories ; and. it is really 
surprising how readily these tv/o vegetables 
adapt themselves to this sort of use, having 
the faculty of absorbing whatever flavour is 
added to them. 



Many of the follov/ing recipes are distinctively 
French, and only those vegetables which have 
not been treated of elsewhere will be found 
here mentioned. 

Sea Kale in Cream. 
Boil sea kale in salted water until it is just 
tender, then drain it and lay in a dish, and 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 35 



cover witli white sauce ; or^, better stilly let tlie 
kale only be par-boiled^ and fiuisli cooking it 
in tlie sauce^ stirring a cupful of cream into the 
latter at the last. 

Before sea kale is in the market_, a very 
similar dish to the above may be made by boil- 
ing a head of celery, and dressing it the same 
way. Use only the whitest parts. 

Green Artichokes, "a la Barigoule." 

For larq-e-sized artichokes : — 

o 

Cut off the stalks and remove the tips from 
the leaves. Boil them in salted water until 
tender, then drain them, and press between a 
cloth to exclude all water. 

Mix together a tablespoonf ul of sausage meat 
with as much butter, a few bread-crumbs, a 
spoonful of flour, the same of minced herbs, 
and a little seasoning. Stir this mixture over 
the fire for about five minutes, then carefully fill 
in the spaces between each leaf of the artichokes 
with it, and place them side by side in a shallow 
stewpan; jDour a little butter or clarified fat 
over them, and bake quickly for five minutes. 

Lift them out on to a dish ; mix a spoonful of 
sharp sauce with the butter, and pour over all. 



36 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 

Green articliokes,, after boiling, are commonly 
served witli dissolved butter ; or if cold with a 
''.sauce poivrade'' (see Cliapter Y.). The fol- 
lowing way is also excellent :— 

Eemove the stalks, split each one in two, and 
boil them for five minutes. 

Make a rich brown sauce from a little clear 
stock and brown roux ; add to it one onion, a 
bunch of herbs, and glassful of white wine ; 
season well. 

Put the artichokes into this; cover up, and 
stew for an hour. Strain the sauce, place the 
artichokes in the middle of the dish, and pour 
the sauce around them. 



Jerusalem Artichokes, a la Maitre-d'hotel. 

Wash the artichokes, and put them to boil in 
salted water with the skins on. When tender 
enough for a skewer to penetrate them, drain 
away the water, peel them, and cut into short, 
thick pieces. Have ready two ounces of butter 
melted ; put the artichokes into it, turn them 
about, and sprinkle them with pepper and 
chopped parsley. When slightly frizzled serve 
them up. A dash of vinegar is an improve- 
ment. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSTTES. 37 

Jerusalem Artichokes in Sauce. 

After wasliing and paring tliem^ boil tliem in 
water containing vinegar and salt until tender, 
then serve in wliite or brown sauce; or sauce 
ponleiie, according to discretion. 

Cauliflowers au Gratin. 

Boil tliem as if for eating with white sance ; 
drain and crush them with a fork, add a few 
bread-crumbs or a little cooked macaroni, a 
nob of butter, a cupful of cream, and plenty of 
pepper and salt. Butter a shallow dish, ponr 
the mixture into it, sprinkle the surface with 
bread-crumbs, and bake until slightly browned. 

Cauliflower '*au Fromagfe." 

Boil a large white cauliflower; drain it, and 
break it carefully into two parts. 

Make a small quantity of good white sauce, 
and stir into it a spoonful of grated Parmesan, 
and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 

Butter a fancy dish which will stand firing ; 
break up half the cauliflower into small bits, and 
put at the bottom of the dish, cover with a layer 
of the sauce. 

Place the other half of the cauliflower on top 



38 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 

of tliis ; well cover every part of it with tlio 
remainder of the sauce ; sprinkle it with more 
cheese, pour a little melted butter the last thing 
over the whole, and place the dish in the oven 
to brown the surface. 

Fried Salsify. 

Scrape the salsify, and throw them into vine- 
gar and water to preserve the colour; boil them 
until just tender in strong salt and water. 

Drain them, flour each one, then dip them 
into a batter, and drop them into boiling fat. 
Fry until brown ; lift them carefully out and 
serve very hot, garnished with parsley. 

Salsifies, when boiled, may be served in 
vv'hite or brown sauce, or cut small and added 
to stews of meat. 

Asparagus tops a la Crenie. 

This is for very thin, green asparagus ; the 
finer kinds with thick fleshy stalks are invari- 
ably served with the accompaniment of pure 
melted butter or white sauce ; oi-, if cold, the 
cruet containing salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil 
is passed round to each individual partaking of 
them. 

Cut the asparagus into inch lengths; leave 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 39 

out all tlie white part, tlirow the pieces into 
hoiling water for about two rainntes_, then drain, 
place them in a stewpan with butter, a lump of 
sugar, some pepper, and a teacupful of water; 
cover up and let them stew^ for at least an hour. 
Remove the onion, and thicken the sauce with 
the 3^olk of an ^^^ and a little cream. Serve 
hot over a thin slice of fried bread. 

Petits Pois. 

Throw the shelled peas into boiling salted 
water for one or two minutes, not more ; then 
drain them. 

Dissolve a little butter at the bottom of a 
stewpan ; put in the peas, two small onions, a 
sprig of mint and parsley, sprinkle with pepper; 
add a lump of sugar, and finally cover the top 
with a cabbage lettuce cut in half, and pour in 
half a teacupful of water. Put on the lid, and 
simmer the whole for nearly an hour. Remove 
the lettuce, herbs, and onions, and serve the 
peas with the sauce as it is, or thicken the latter 
by the addition of a yolk of Qgo^ and cream. 

The above is for peas when served alone ; 
w^hen intended for accompanying meat, use a 
little of the fat from the joint, and omit the 
thickening agents. 



40 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 

Stuffed Cucumbers. 

Prepare a mince from the remains of cold 
meat, poultry, or fisli ; season it liiglily, and 
make it moist witli gravy. If a purely vege- 
tarian stuffing be desired, make it of bread- 
crumbs, parsley and cliives, butter and season- 
ing, and moisten witli a beaten Qg^. 

Pare a sliort tliick cucumber, and with a corer 
remove all the seedy interior ; press the stuffing 
into it until it be quite full. Melt a good-sized 
lump of butter in a stewpan, place the cucum- 
ber in it (if it will not go in without, cut it in 
two), put in an onion and a bunch of herbs, also 
a cup of water; cover up and stew gently for an 
hour or so. Remove to a dish, take out the 
onion and herbs, thicken the butter with a 
little potato flour, season it, add a spoonful of 
chopped parsley and a few drops of vinegar; 
let it boil, then pour over the cucumbers. 

Aubergines Farcies. 

Though but rarely seen, this vegetable is a 
most delicious one. 

Pare each one, and split them down length- 
wise ; remove the soft interior part. 

Melt a little butter, and place the half auber- 
gines to simmer in this. When slightly browned, 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 41 

remove them to a fireproof disli, and stir into 
tlie butter a teaspoouful of flour aud a few 
spoonfuls of gravy. Chop up the portions 
which were removed from the insides ; add a 
good spoonful of fresh herbs minced and salt 
and pepper to them^ then mix in with the sauce. 
Let this cook awhile, then fill up the cavities of 
the aubergines^ sprinkle the surface with bread- 
crumbs^ place a few bits of butter in the dish^ 
and bake quickly for ten minutes. 
Serve in the same dish. 

Grilled Aubergines. 

Split them lengthwise, and steep them in 
salad oil for ton minutes, then drain them, and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and broil them 
over the fire, turning on both sides. 

Aubergines may also be split and fried ; also 
baked simply with butter. 

Fried Parsley 

is not as frequently used as it should be ; for 
garnishing hot pastry or fried dishes it should 
always be used in preference to fresh. Place 
the picked sprigs in a frying-basket, and plunge 
that for exactly one minute into boiling fat. 



42 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 



Curried Veg-etables. 

The following vegetables all make excel- 
lent curries, and tliis form of serving vegetables 
makes a pleasant variation, besides being a very 
savoury one. The addition of a little dessicated 
cocoanut (purcliasable from any grocer in tins) 
gives a delicacy to tlie flavour. 

Potatoes, celery, onions, turnips, parsnips, 
articliokes, haricots, broad beans_, vegetable 
marrows, and cucumbers. 

For a hroK'U curry proceed as follows : — 

Have ready some hot fat, enough to fry the 
vegetables with ease. 

Have the latter cut in slices or small even- 
sized pieces; fry them until brown and tender 
through ; sprinkle them all over with a little 
curry powder, and add sufficient salt. If you 
have no brown thickening ready made, dredge 
the vegetables with a little baked flour before 
they leave the frying-pan ; then pour in a good 
cupful of clear stock, a spoonful of '' ISTabob ^' 
or other sharp sauce and ketchup, a pinch of 
cocoanut, and half the juice of a lemon. 

Let all simmer together for several minutes, 
then serve in the same w^ay as a meat curry. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 43 

For a iL'lilte curry^ cook the vegetables in 
water previous to cutting tliem up. Make a 
small quantity of rich white sauce. 

Dissolve a little butter in a stewpan ; put the 
vegetables in to become well heated throuo-h, 
but not to brown ; pepper them with curry 
powder; stir in the sauce^ then just before 
serving add a little cream. 

Vegetable Pies. 

As in carries^ a combination of different vege- 
tables produces a better result than any one 
kind used singly ; also the seasoning must not 
be given too sparingly. 

Most vegetables for pies should be at least 
partly cooked beforehand, and onions are more 
rich in flavour if previously /r/ecZ. A sprinkling 
of tapioca, sago, etc., gives smoothness and 
'' body ^' to the pie. 

Seasonings should consist of pepper, salt, fine 
herbs (dried or fresh), cayenne, mace, allspice, 
and sometimes grated cheese. 

As a rule the vegetables should be placed in 
separate laj-ers, the seasoning between, and the 
dish filled up with water, stock, or milk, accord- 
ing to discretion; then simmered a little while 



44 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 

before putting on tlie crust. Make and orna- 
ment the crust as if for a meat pie. 

The following combinations go excellently 
well together. 

Alternate layers of cooked macaroni, frizzled 
onions, green peas, and tomatoes (the latter 
uncooked) ; season with pepper, salt, mint and 
lemon juice. 

Alternate layers of cooked haricot beans and 
mushrooms, with a few bits of butter and some 
chopped parsley; pepper and salt for seasoning. 

Alternate layers of potatoes, onions, and 
apples (all uncooked) ; season with pepper, salt, 
and mace. 

Tomatoes, cooked macaroni, onions, apples, 
and grated cheese. 

Potatoes, hard-boiled eggs, fresh herbs, spring- 
onions, and parsley. 

Cooked broad beans, frizzled onion, parsley, 
seasoning, and tapioca, filled up with milk. 

Cooked celery, turnips, and boiled rice. The 
water in which the celery was cooked is thick- 
ened, and a little cream added to it, plenty of 
pepper and salt, a little grated cheese, if liked, 
and the dish filled up with this. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Salads* 

THE subject of salads reminds one of Syd- 
ney Smith's truly Epicurean recipe for a 
salad dressing, wliicli he concludes by saying — 

" 'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. 
Back to the world lie'd turn his weary soul, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." 

This well-hnown recipe of his is^ however, 
quite beyond the reach of an ordinary family 
salad maker, though well deserving of attention 
when a festival calls for extra care in regard to 
this portion of the repast. 

There are but few days in the year when the 
salad bowl is absent from the table of the hon 
bourgeois. He follows the order which kindly 
nature has provided for him with faithfulness 
through the succeeding seasons. 

Spring and summer bring the true "salad 
days '' of his existence, wherein he may revel in 

45 



4''> SALADS. 

the variety open to his choice, and unless the 
frost be too unkind, he will manage to preserve 
his curly endives till the dainty coqullle 
has appeared above ground ; then watercress 
speedily cornes to ring the changes with dande- 
lion and chicory. 

Indeed, there are few things in the vegetable 
kingdom which do not lend themselves to his 
skilful dressing; even cold meat, fish and game 
he will treat in this manner with much effect. 

Jn warm weather, cold meat sent to table in 
this way, or served with the salad as an accom- 
paniment, is often far more acceptable than a 
hot joint. 

Km old Spanish proverb says it takes four 
persons to make a successful salad : a spend- 
thrift to throw in the oil, a miser to drop in the 
vineofar, a lawver to administer the seasoning", 
and a madman to stir the whole together. 

Though comparatively a simple thing to pre- 
pare, it is very easily spoiled if regard be not 
priid to one or two golden rules. The main 
thing to observe in lettuce and vegetable salads 
is that they should be as dry as possible, and 
the dressing bo added at the last moment only. 

It is bettor not to wash lettuces, but to wipe 
them witli a clean towel, then shred them into 



SALADS. 47 

the Ij'jwl. li iiiiiddy or gritty^ or a trifle stale, 
let tliern lie in cold water awliilo, then shako 
vigorously In one of the open wire baskets sold 
for the purpose. 

Vegetables, such as beans, hari'cots_, peas, clc, 
and kidney beans, should, after boilin;;, be quite 
cold and thoroughly well drained before using; 
plenty of chopped parsley, and a suspicion of 
OTiiou added to them when placed in the bowl. 

Amongst the vegetables appropriate for 
.salads in addition to the first-mentioned^ are 
asjiaragus, artichokes, boiled beetroot, celery, 
cucumber, tomatoes, cauliflowers, dandelions, 
French boans^ lentils, broad beans, radishes, 
salsifies, chicory, and watercress, mustard and 
cress, chives, and a variety of herbs, which, 
served with the others, give piquancy to the 
flavour, and aid digestion. 

A few shreds of onion should never be for- 
gotten, though French people prefer to use a 
clove of garlic, and rub the inside of the bowl 
with it. 

A salad well prepared and (jarnislied is a most 
charming compound. For the garnishing, only 
such things as can bo eaten with the mixture 
should be used, such as bright radishes, sliced 
beetroot and cucumber, hard-boiled eggs ; nas- 



48 SALADS. 

turtium leaves and flowers and mariofclds mav 

CD »-' 

also be used. Botli tlie latter flowers are edible^ 
and have a pleasant flavour. 

Of meat salads, chicken salad;, or mayonnaise, 
is the most commonly known, but most poultry 
and game may be treated in this way. 

A very appetising way of treating the remains 
of cold beef is to cut it into dice, excluding all 
fat and gristle (a very small piece of meat is 
needed), then to add a good tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley and chives, and dress as a 
salad with mustard and oil and vinegar; this 
goes by the name of a ^^ persillade.^' 

Fish, too, such as cold salmon or turbot, hali- 
but and cod, with lobster, either by itself or as 
a garniture to the first-named, all four being 
treated in this manner; eggs should always be 
included in the dressing. The coral of a lobster 
is most valuable as a decoration. 

Lettuce and watercress salads are invariably 
served with omelettes and most other dishes 
made with eggs ; and with hot meat and gravy 
they are a delicious accompaniment, many 
people, particularly gentlemen, preferring them 
thus instead of to cold meat. 

Joan Cromwell's grand salad was composed 
of equal parts of almonds, raisins, capers. 



SALADS. 49 

pickled cucumbers^ slirimps, and boiled tur- 
nips ! 

Althougli a salad should not be dressed until 
the moment it is required to be eaten, the dress- 
ing may be prepared some hours before it is 
needed for use, and, where time is precious, and 
salads are frequently required, sufficient for two 
or three days' supply may be prepared at once, 
and bottled up ready for use. 

If you would succeed and have a truly deli- 
cious salad, 7na]cG your own dressing ; let no 
hands but your own have anything to do with 
compounding it. Above all, eschew the com- 
pounds sold at the grocers under the name of 
" creams " or " salad dressing.'^ 

A foolish prejudice exists among many people 
against salad oil, but when once they have over- 
come the dislike, they generally end by becom- 
ing very partial to it ; its judicious use is of 
great benefit, as it tends to prevent the fermen- 
tation caused in the stomach by the presence of 
a raw vegetable, and is a corrective to flatu- 
lence. 

It can often be taken in salads by invalids for 
whom cod-liver oil has been prescribed, which 
is so disagreeable and difficult to take, and is 
found to be very nearly as nourishing. 

P.C. E 



so SALADS. 

There are different oils procurable to suit all 
tastes^ but tlie purest olive oil is ahvaj^s pre- 
ferred by both French and Swiss people_, and is 
bought by them in large flagons, straight from 
the growers. 



The ■principles of salad-making having been 
broadly given in the foregoing remarks_, recipes 
for a few choice salads are here appended. 

Capsicum Salad. 

An excellent dis^estive. 

The capsicums should be rather unripe, 
although for appearance sake they should be 
red in colour. 

Split them^ remove the seeds, let them lie in 
cold water for some hours, to reduce their 
pungency. 

With the fingers pull them to small pieces, 
and shred some crisp lettuce also. Chop a 
small onion finely, and slice up two or three 
tomatoes. 

Mix all together in the salad bowl ; sprinkle 
with salt, then pour several spoonfuls of oil and 
one of vinegar over all, and mix the whole very 
thoroughly together. 



SALADS. 51 

Cucumber Salad. 

There will be none of the usual grumbling 
as to the indigestibility of cucumbers if the 
following directions are minutely followed : — 

Firstly, slice the cucumbers as thinly as a sheet 
of notepaper^ leaving the rind on if the taste of 
it be not disliked ; place the slices on a plate^ 
also some finely shred onions^ half as many as 
the cucumber ; cover v/ith a sprinkling of salt_, 
then with another plate, and let these stand for 
half an hour to ^^ cry." Then drain the '' tears '^ 
away, and put cucumbers and onions into the 
salad bowl. Dredge with pepper and a little 
castor sugar, then j)our over the usual propor- 
tion of oil and vinegar, and serve at once. 

When this salad is to accompany fish, leave 
out the onion, and substitute a few sprigs of 
watercress. 

Carrot Salad. 

An accompaniment to cold salt beef. 

Slice thinly some carrots which have been 
boiled whole and allowed to become cold. Lay 
the slices separately on a flat dish and season 
them with pepper, salt, and a drop of oil on 
each ; squeeze some lemon juice over them. 

Shred finely some lettuce, and mix some 



52 * SALADS. 

chopped cliives or shallots witli it, and nearly 
fill the bowl with this. Dredge with the usual 
dressing, and mix lightly. Carefully lift the 
slices of carrot and lay them over the green ; 
decorate with tufts of scraped horse-radish and 
sprigs of watercress. 

Celery Salad. 

The white stalks of celery should be shred 
downwards, then cut into inch lengths, and 
piled in the centre of a shallow glass dish. 

Pour over these a cream salad dressing, and 
place a tuft of the green leaves on the top. 
Make a border round the base of pickled red 
cabbage, a few strips of hard-boiled egg, and 
an outer edge of celery leaves. 

Apple Salad. 

A tasty accompaniment to cold roast pork, 
goose or raised pie. 

Keswicks are the best for this purpose, on 
account of their sharp juiciness and fine green 
skins. Core the apples, but leave the skins on. 
Slice them on to a shallow dish, dust them with 
cayenne pepper, and sprinkle among them a few 
finely minced shallots. Place a few split capsi- 
cums and tiny pickled gherkins about the edge, 



SALADS. 53 

strain a little lemon juice, and mix it with an 
equal quantity of salad oil, and a pinch each 
of salt and powdered sugar. Pour over the 
apples, and serve before they have time to 
change colour. 

Bean Salad. {Salade de Haricots Verts.) 
French beans are by far the best for making 
this, although kidney beans are not at all bad if 
treated in the same way. 

When the former are used, strip the strings 
off and simply break the beans in inch lengths ; 
do not cut them. Boil them until tender ; drain 
thoroughly, and leave until quite cold. Put 
them in a bowl, sprinkle with about two table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley and any fresh 
herbs obtainable, then with salt and pepper, 
and dress with vine^rar and oil. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Fennel Salad. 

For accompanying white fish, turbot, cod, 
halibut or hake. 

Use only the tender sprouts of the fennel, 
and shred them finely ; intersperse these with 
shred leaves of tender cabbage lettuce. 

Pile up in the bowl, and garnish with chopped 



54 SALADS. 

hard-boiled egg, shreds of fresh lemon, and 
chopped pickled walnut. Dress as preferred. 

Haricot Bean Mayonnaise. 

The white haricot beans should have been 
soaked previous to cooking them, to ensure their 
being thoroughly mealy afterwards. 

When well drained, mix with them a little 
mustard and cress, and the faintest suspicion of 
raw onion. 

Pour over all a good mayonnaise or cream 
dressing. 

Yery nice for luncheon with brown bread and 
butter. 

Mushroom Salad. 

Small or " button " mushrooms should be 
used for this. 

Remove the outer skins and most of the stalk, 
drop them into boiling salted water, and boil 
gently for two or three minutes. Remove them 
on to a cloth. When quite cold, sprinkle them 
with mixed pepper and salt, and chopped pars- 
le}^ Pile in the salad bowl, and dredge liber- 
ally with oil and spiced vinegar. 



SALADS. 55 

Potato Salad. 

Slice some cold boiled potatoes very evenly, 
sprinkle tliem all over with finely minced pars- 
ley and shallots, and strew a little thinly sliced 
lemon amongst them. Mix a teaspoonfid of 
grated horse-radish with an egg salad dressing, 
and pour it over. Decorate with sliced beet- 
rootj pickled walnuts, and sprigs of watercress. 

Sardine Salad. 

Shred finely some crisp curly endive, dredge 
it with pepper and salt, some lemon juice, and 
the oil of the sardines. Mix very thoroughly, 
then pile in the centre of a round glass dish. 
Border with thin circles of hard-boiled eggs. 
Take several unbroken sardines ; split them 
open to remove the bone, and sprinkle them 
with fresh lemon peel and cayenne pepper ; 
close them up, then sharply cut each sardine 
into three pieces. Lay these fillets over the 
top of the prepared endive, and serve. 

A sausaofe salad mio-ht be made in similar 
fiishion, using slices of Lyons or Bologna sausage 
cut in fancy shapes. The dressing should have 
mustard and the yolk of egg added to the other 
ingredients. 



56 SALADS. 

Game Salads. 

Almost any kind of cold game may be dressed 
as a salad, and the following general directions 
will do for all : — 

The meat must be very thinly sliced — shaved, 
in fact — in neat pieces. Lettuces, mustard and 
cress, and any salad herbs obtainable should be 
arranged in the bowl in alternate layers with 
the game. Dress with a mixture of chutney 
and oil, with a little spiced vinegar, and decor- 
ate the surface with chopped jelly. 

Ham Salad. 

Cold boiled or baked smoked ham is the best, 
although unsmoked may be used. 

Mix together and put into a fine dredger a 
small quantity each of celery salt, cayenne and 
black pepper, white sugar and allspice. 

Shave the lean of the ham, and squeeze lemon 
juice over the pieces, then lightly dredge them 
with the above mixture. 

Shave up some white onions and celery, 
and put them in the salad bowl with a few 
white lettuce hearts. Add the ham next, then 
pour several spoonfuls of oil over all and a dash 
of vinegar. Serve quickly. 



SALADS. 57 

Lobster Salad. 

Mix a well varied green salad, and add the 
flakes taken from tlie larger part of the lobster ; 
make a pyramid of this. 

Dress with a rich cream dressing, containing 
a spoonful of anchovy sauce ; then decorate in 
the following order, commencing from the base : 
beetroot, sliced cucumber, eggs sliced, prawns, 
eggs, and lobster coral at the top. 

As before advised, make your own '^ salad 
dressing/' whether it be simple or compound. 

The many mixtures which come under this 
heading are after all compounded oE a few 
things, a greater or smaller proportion of each 
being employed, according as fancy or fashion 
dictates. 

The following are the components of all salad 
dressings, — the first five being the most com- 
monly used : — 

Ground pepper, black or white. 

Salt and celery salt. 

Mustard. 

Salad or olive oil. 

Vinegar, plain, spicbd, or flavoured. 

Yolk of Qgg, raw or pounded. 

Mashed potato. 



58 SALADS. 

Lemon juice. 

Sauces : tomato, ancliov}^, Worcester, etc. 

Curry powder. 

Powdered sugar. 

Horse-radish. 

Cream and milk. 

Rules for Mixing* the Dressings. 

Add all liquids slowly. 

Put ill the vinegar at the last. 

Mix very thoroughly, and if intended for 
future use, keep in air-tight bottles, in a cool 
dark place. 

Shake well before using. 



CHAPTER V. 

Sauces* 

A GENERAL knowledge of sauces is a part 
of every intelligent housekeeper's culinary 
education. Tliey are no longer the appendages 
of the rich man's table only, for by their aid the 
homeliest dish may become "fit to set before a 
king/' although the actual cost is within the 
compass of the peasant's purse. 

The great chef Soyer used to say that sauces 
are to cookery what grammar is to language, or 
the gamut is to music. However this may be, 
the skill of a cook is shown in nothing more 
assuredly than in the way she manufactures a 
sauce. 

Sauce certainly ought to serve either as a 
relish or a finish to the dish it accompanies. 
The most homely fare may be made relishing, 
as the most excellent may be improved, by a 

59 



6o SA UCES. 

well-made sauce, just as the most perfect oil- 
painting is improved by varnishing. 

Sauces should display a decided character. 
Many cooks make a grand mistake on this point ; 
they think they cannot make a sauce sufficiently 
savoury without putting into it everything that 
happens to be available, supposing every addi- 
tion must be an improvement. 

vSpices, herbs, etc., are often absurdly jumbled 
together. Why have cloves and allspice, mace, 
and nutmeg in the same sauce, or onions, garlic, 
and shallots all together ? Any one of these is 
sufficient by itself. 

You might as well, to make soup, order one 
quart of water from the New River, one from 
the Thames, a third from Hampstead, and a 
fourth from Chelsea. 

An ingenious cook will form as endless a 
variety of compositions as a musician with his 
seven notes, or a painter with his pigments ; no 
part of her business offers a more frequent 
opportunity for the display of her imagination ; 
but to become a perfect mistress in the art of 
cleverly extracting flavours, besides the gift of 
good taste, requires all the experience and skill 
of the accomplished professor. 

Hot sauces should be sent to table as hot as 



SAUCES. 6 1 

possible ; and when wine or tliickening has been 
addedj they should be allowed to boil up again, 
so that the flavours may be well blended. 

In compound sauces the flavouring should be 
so nicely proportioned that no one should pre- 
dominate over the other, but that the mixture 
give out a mellow flavour which cannot but be 
acceptable to the most critical gourmand. 

Although classed among the elegancies of 
cookery, they are not necessarily extravagant, 
or they would never form so important a part 
of the menu of our honne hourgeoise. 

With her, even the juice that runs from the 
meat is " sauce,'^ for it is seldom or never served 
on the meat dish, as it is in England. That she 
would consider wasteful, but carefully pouring 
off every drop, by a few skilful additions it is 
^^ lengthened,'^ and then served in SLsaiiciere. 

Stock forms the foundation of nearly all meat 
sauces, as it is easily adapted to whatever colour 
is desired. 

If clear, bright sauce, which is also to be 
thick, is required, the stock should be thickened 
with potato flour, as that is transparent, and 
wine — either golden sherry or port — is usually 
added. 

For a thick sauce not necessarily clear, there 



62 SAUCES. 

are many ways of thickening ; brown roux, 
wliicli a good cook will make for herself^ and 
keep by her_, is most preferable. 

Vegetable juice is the most wholesome colour- 
ing matter ; spinach juice as a green when 
available, or a good substitute is to be found in 
crushed parsley. 

A most delicious sauce is made from fresh 
tomatoes, for serving hot with boiled beef or 
veal ; and when fresh ones are not to be had, 
the tinned or preserved ones will do for the 
purpose. 

They should be frizzled in butter, seasoned, 
then just covered with good bouillon, a few 
tiny shallots and a little fragrant *' bouquet''' 
added to them, and allowed to simmer for 
an hour, after which it is passed through a 
strainer. 

Slices of cold beef or veal laid in this sauce, 
and allowed to get thoroughly hot through, 
with a few bits of lean ham or bacon, then 
dished with finely chopped parsley sifted over 
all, makes a very capital way of finishing up a 
joint. 

A thin clear *^^ sauce piquante " is '^ sauce a la 
Diable,'' into the composition of which enter 
shallots and several herbs finely mixed, made 



SA UCES. 63 

mustard, horse-radish grated, salt and pepper, 
vinegar and oil or Lutter, well stewed together, 
and a little stock, brown thickening and wine 
added. 

In all brown sauces, the principal ingredients 
will be found to be, roughly stated, shallots, 
carrots, mushrooms, yolks of eggs, herbs, pars- 
ley, garlic, cloves, pepper, mustard, vinegar and 
oil; sometimes white or red wine, with thicken- 
ing material as required. 

When making sauces for game and poultry, 
the goodness should be thoroughly extracted 
from the giblets and all available bones, by 
crushing and thoroughly stewing. The pinch 
of salt must not be omitted in any sauce. 

White sauces form quite a catalogue by them- 
selv^es, from the simple white sauce made from 
C/hickened milk to the somewhat elaborate 
^^ bechamel sauce." 

For a good white sauce — v/hich is also the 
foundation of the richer kinds of the same — use 
a tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little 
water, and an ounce of butter and milk or 
cream to the amount required. AVhen this is 
boiled, it can receive whatever addition is to 
give it character to suit the dish it accompanies 
— capers, parsley, anchovies, oysters, shrimps. 



64 SA UCES. 

spices, lemons ; in fact^ it can be varied ad 
Hbitum. 



Where many sauces are required, it is a great 
economy of time and material to have a supply 
of both brown and white roiix at hand. Hastily 
made roux is impossible ; and no mixture of flour 
and butter or other thickening agent can fill 
its place — certainly not in taste^ and really not 
in appearance. 

Equal quantities of pure butter and haJccd 
flour, stirred briskly and steadily over the fire 
for a longer or shorter time, is the one and only 
way of making roux ; the difference in colour 
depends entirely on the time expended upon the 
task. 

Sauce dite Beurre Noir. 

Melt a fairly large lump of butter iu a sauce- 
pan, and keep it briskly stirred while it changes 
colour ; let it become quite brown, but not burnt. 
Throw in a handful of lightly chopped parsley, 
a pinch of pepper, and a spoonful of vinegar. 

Black butter sauce is frequently served with 
fish. 



SA UCES. 65 

Sauce Piquante. 

Cliop a sliallot finely, and frizzle it in a little 
butter; add a tablespooufal of brown ?'0».rj a 
teaspoonful of made mustard, same of mixed 
salt and pepper, a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
and half a pint of warm water. Boil together, 
then strain through a sieve, and lastly throw in 
a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins. 

Sauce Robert. 

A spoonful of brown roux, half a pint of clear 
stock, plenty of seasoning, and a teaspoonful of 
mustard added last of all. 

Frequently served with cutlets and steaks, 
notably with pork. 

There are two distinct kinds of wdiite sauce — 
viz., Sauce hlanclie Farisienne and Sauce hlanclie 
Norm ancle. 

Parisienne. 

Dissolve in a saucepan a small lump of butter, 
and work into it as much baked flour or potato 
flour as it will absorb ; when smooth, add a few 
spoonfuls of water to it. When this boils, add 
to it a fresh quantity of butter cut in small 
pieces — enough to make the required quantity 
of sauce. Stir steadily until all is completely 

p.c. P 



66 SA UCES. 

dissolved, but do not let it boil again. The 
juice of half or a whole lemon is added at the 
last. 

Normande. 

Moisten a spoonful of Jecule or flour with suf- 
ficient water, add to it a small lump of butter, 
and milk, to make the requi/iite quantity; stir 
over the fire until it boils freelv. then season and 
add lemon juice. 

White rouXj to which is added milk, or milk 
and wat-er, makes this sauce to perfection. 

A little thick cream added at the last greatly 
improves white sauce. 

Sauce Poulette. 

Make a white sauce accordincr to either of the 
above ; allow an onion and a few herbs to simmer 
in it for a while, then strain, and stir in the 
beaten yolk of an ^^^^^ 

Sauce Soubese. 

Chop up finely a dozen or more shallots, 
frizzle them slowly in a little butter, dredge a 
little floor over them, then stir in a tumblerful of 
hot water; let simmer for a little time. The 
sauce may then be strained, or not, as desired. 



SA UCES. 67 

but it should receive the addition of salt^ pepper, 
and a spoonful or two of cream. 
Served with mutton. 

Sauce Ravig-ote. 

Hot. — Put into a saucepan a teacupful of water 
or clear stock, add to it a spoonful each of 
minced chives, shallots, chervil, tarragon, mustard 
and cress, pepper and salt, and one of vinegar. 
Boil these together for five minutes, then stir in 
a small lump of butter, and a teaspoonfnl of 
potato flour wetted with water to thicken it. 

Gold. — Take the same herbs, after mincing 
them, and pound them in a mortar; add to them 
the raw yolk of an og^. Mix well together, 
and add, drop by drop, three spoonfuls of salad 
oil. A spoonful of viuegar and one of made 
mustard are stirred in last of all. 

Sauce Tartare. 

Mix togetlier the yolks of three eggs, a spoon- 
ful of mustard and one of vinegar, then add 
slowly three spoonfuls of salad oil. Stir care- 
fully over the lire until thoroughly hot, but it 
must not reach boiliug-point. Or it may be used 
cold. 



68 SA UCES. 

Sauce Bordelaise. 

Melt a small piece of butter, and frizzle in 
tliat two sliced shallots ; when done, either stir 
in a tablespoonful of brown roux or sufficient 
potato flour to absorb the butter. Add a tea- 
cupful of clear stock, a wineglassfal of claret, 
two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, a pinch of 
salt, same of pepper, and boil together; stir a 
pinch of mixed herbs in at the last. Much liked 
with beefsteaks and cutlets. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

Some clear but highly flavoured stock is re- 
quired for the foundation of this. Simmer in 
this a small onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a 
carrot cut in rounds, and a clove. When re- 
quired for use, strain through a muslin, thicken 
with one or two spoonfuls of white roux, let it 
boil up once, season well, and stir in lastly three 
tablespoonfuls of hot cream. 

Sauce au Jamb on. 

Chop finely a few ounces of lean ham ; frizzle 
it in a stewpan with a bit of butter. When 
cooked, stir in a sufficiency of potato flour to 
absorb the butter, and clear stock or warm 



SAUCES. 69 

water to reduce it to the consistency of cream. 
Put in a small buncli of herbs, and some pepper. 
Let all simmer for upwards of an hour, then 
strain through a tamis. 

Excellent for serving with poached eggs, 
cooked celery, salsifies, etc. 

Sauce Finaneiere. 

Put in a saucepan half a pint of good clear 
stock, a few fowl or game giblets; cut small 
pieces of cooked liver and ham, a dozen small 
mushrooms, a dozen shallots, two or three 
olives, stoned and cut small (or tomatoes may be 
used instead), a glass of white wine, a spoonful 
of scraped horse-radish, pepper and salt. Let 
all these simmer together for a couple of hours, 
then thicken the sauce with brown ^^ roux '^ or 
butter and flour rolled together, add any gravy 
available and a small spoonful of curry powder. 
Boil it once more and serve. 

Salmis, 

For the remains of poultry or game. 

Dissolve a lump of butter the size of an Q^^, 
stir into it a large tablespoonful of ^^ fecule " or 
potato flour, stir together until brown ; add a 
cupful of stock and one of red wine, salt, pepper 



'lo SA UCES. 

and spices. Mix together well, and wlien it has 
boiled a few minutes draw the saace away from 
the fire^ and put in the joints and pieces to be 
gently simmered therein. 

A Richep Salmis. 

Crush the bones_, necks^ giblets, etc., of the 
birds which you have been jointing; put all to- 
gether into a stewpan with red wine and stock 
enough to cover them, two or three onions, a 
carrot, pepper, spice and cloves. Stew them 
together a long time, then strain through a hair 
sieve. Thicken this sauce until it becomes the 
consistency of cream, add salt, and taste if it be 
rightly seasoned. Warm up the jointed birds in 
the sauce, pour on to a dish, and garnish with 
potato rissoles or fried croutons. Serve very 
hot. 

Mayonnaise Blanche. 

The chief ingredient of this sauce is a small 
quantity of clear, savoury jelly. The jelly 
should be gradually melted by warmth, but must 
not become warm itself. When sujfficiently dis- 
solved to allow of its whisking easily, set the 
basin containing it on the ice if possible, if not, 
in a very cold place. Add an equal quantity of 



/ 



SAUCES. 71 

good salad oil to \i, a spoonful or two o£ good 
flavoured vinegar, and a little salt and pepper 
mixed ; tlien proceed to whisk tlie whole to a 
white creamy froth. The oil and vinegar are 
better if added by degrees. Keep the mayon- 
naise very cold. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. / 

This sauce is a mixture of yolks of eggs_, oil, 
and vinegar or lemon-juice. 

Care is required in the mixing thereof ; the oil 
should be added to the beaten eggs by drops, 
and the acid put in in the same way the last of 
all. 

The proportion usually observed is that of a 
tablespoonful of oil to every egg-yolk, and a 
few drops of vinegar. If found too thick when 
finished, use a little cold water to bring it to the 
requisite consistency. Use a wooden or silver 
spoon in mixing a mayonnaise. 



Green Mayonnaise Sauce 

is made by adding a small quantity of finely 
minced herbs — chervil, cress, parsley, etc. — 
to plain ma^yonnaise. 



72 SAUCES. 

Horse-radish Sauce. 

Pare off tlie outer skin, then scrape or grate 
an ounce of liorse-radisli ; slightly thicken a 
cupful of cream or cream and milk, put the 
horse-radish into it with half a teaspoonful of 
salt and a lump of sugar ; make the sauce very 
hot, and just before bringing to table stir in a 
spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. 

Horse-radish Sauce, 

For cold meat. 

Scrape the root very finely ; to two table- 
spoonfuls of it add half a teaspoonful of salt and 
a whole one of made mustard. Stir these into 
a ready mixed yolk of ^g^ and oil, and add 
lastly a spoonful of vinegar. Serve in a sauce 
boat. Cream may be substituted for the Q^'g 
and oil if preferred. 

Sauce Parisienne, 

For sweet puddings. 

Mix a wineglassful of rum or sweet wine with 
the beaten yolks of three eggs and a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar ; stir over the fire until the mixture 
begins to thicken, draw it aside and add to it 
three tablespoonfuls of cream. Keep warm, but 
do not let it boil. 



SA UCES. 73 

Sauce Napolitaine, 

For Neapolitan and custard puddinsTs. 

Dissolve four ounces of currant jelly in a 
saucepan with four lumps of sugar, add to this 
a wineglassful of claret or port wine. Make 
hot; but do not let it boil. 

Sauce aux Citrons. 

Peel two lemons and squeeze the juice from 
them. Place the rind with half a pint of water 
and four ounces of lump sugar, to boil in a 
saucepan. When the goodness has been ex- 
tracted, remove the rind, stir in a teaspoonful 
of corn flour previously wetted with cold 
water, the lemon juice, and an ounce of butter; 
boil up once and serve in a tureen. 

Sauce au Confiture. 

Mix smoothly together an ounce of dissolved 
butter and the same quantity of flour; stir in 
half a pint of warm water with a pinch of salt. 
Boil this sauce well, then add to it three or 
four spoonfuls of nice jam, free from stones. 



74 SA UCES. 

Flavoured Vineg-ars. 

One or two small bottlesful of viuegai's of 
different flavours will be found most useful for 
sauces and gravies. 

As a rule, steep the herbs or roots in plain 
vinegar for about a fortniglit_, then strain the 
latter, put it on in a pan to boil for a short 
space, and when cold bottle for use. 

Horse-radish, celery, chili, garlic, mushroom, 
and walnut vinegars are made from roots; 
tarragon, mint, sage, nasturtium, basil, etc., from 
herbs. 

Fruit vinegars for sweet sauces, such as rasp- 
berry, blackberry, plum, etc., are made by 
steeping the fruit in the vinegar until all the 
colour and flavour of it has been drawn out, 
then straining the vinegar into an enamelled 
pan and boiling it with half its proportion of 
sugar. Boil for ten minutes, and bottle up 
well. 

A very small quantity of flavoured vinegar is 
sufficient ; it must not be used as freely as 
plain vinegar. 



CHAPTER VI. 

Zbc ''IDaubieve'' ov ''IJISvaisiere/' 

THERE is a kind of stew very popular in 
France whicli is known as a " danbe/' 
" Bceuf a la daube '^ is a favourite dish^ but veal, 
mutton^ and particularly poultr}^, all lend them- 
selves admirably to being treated in this way. 

One great advantage it has is that inferior 
cuts of meat, or elderly (consequently tough) 
denizens of the poultry yard, are quite as eli- 
gible for use in this way as the finest and most 
tender ; if anything', they are, indeed, prefer- 
able, as they are found to contain more flavour 
if they can be made tender, and the object of 
this process is to make them tender, in spite of 
all resistance they may offer. 

The daubiere is a close-covered stewing-pot 
of glazed earthenware, with a deep rim round 
the top for holding charcoal. It is put either 
in a corner of the oven, or placed over the 
grating on the charcoal stove, with more hot 



-jd THE '' DAUBIERE'' OR '' BRAISlkRE^ 

coals round the brim. The latter way is the 
true method of braising. 

For cooking a large piece of meat — a leg of 
mutton, for instance, which can be leffc until 
cold before it is cut — it is a mode of cooking 
truly beyond compare. Most people remember 
the old rhyme anent the turkey : — 

" Turkey boiled is turkey spoiled, 
Turkey roast is turkey lost ; 
But for turkey braised, the Lord be praised ! " 

Any one who has once tasted turkey done in 
this way will well understand how it is so much 
superior. 

This mode of cooking has for its special 
object to cause as little evaporation as possible, 
and thus to retain all the natural juices and 
flavour of the meat. What is not left in the 
meat is fixed in the jelly produced by it. 

Large pieces or joints of meat cooked in this 
way are equally good eaten either hot or cold ; 
but, as before stated, inferior portions of meat, 
if stewed in this vessel, may be rendered most 
excellent and nutritious. 

Let us first take " Boeuf a la daube.^' The 
portion of beef used for this is a slice — say, an 
inch thick — from the shoulder of beef ; either 
above the blade or under it will do. 



THE '' DAUBlkRE'' OR '' BRAISIERE:' yy 

Remove all bone and skin ; if you get a pro- 
per slice^ there will be little of either. Take a 
small portion of beef kidney, a slice of fat 
bacon or salted pork, and a few large white 
onions ; cat the meat into small squares, the 
bacon into strips, the kidney into small pieces, 
and slice the onion finely. 

Then in your daubiere arrange them in layers, 
dredging a little flour over each layer of meat, 
and taking care to have the fat bacon for the 
final layer. A few peppercorns should be dis- 
posed about, and a very little salt. Then, last 
of all, a glass of red wine should be poured 
over. Give it three or four hours to cook. It 
is most excellent. 

Veal done in this same manner should 
be left whole, the kidney omitted ; but the 
meat should be liberally larded through with 
fat bacon, more placed round it, a clove or 
two and peppercorns, but no onions. Sweet 
herbs are an improvement, and white wine 
instead of red. 

Of course the wine may be omitted alto- 
gether where great economy is to be observed ; 
the daube will be less rich, but none the less 
good without it. 

Legs of mutton, shanks, thick portions of t\\Q 



-]% THE ''DAUBIERE'' OR '' BRAISIERE» 

shoulder, etc., require no addition, save a few 
sweet herbs and a little fat to give moisture. 
The same parts of lamb may be cooked in this 
way also, and the meat will be found to waste 
less if so treated. 

True '^booaf a la mode '^ is cooked in the 
daubiere. When intended to be eaten hot, the 
vegetables are served with the meat ; but not 
so intended, they should be lifted out, and the 
fat over the gravy removed as far as possible, 
leaving the meat in the vessel until quite cold. 

It is sometimes well to place a weight over 
the meat before replacing the lid ; it will slice 
more evenly if this precaution be observed. 

A piece of the leg of beef or the '^ round ^' 
cooked in this manner, and left till cold, makes 
a capital luncheon dish ; it will absorb the 
flavour of vegetables, bacon, fat, etc., quite 
readily. 

For cooking turkeys, geese or poultry, ^' en 
daube,^^ the same general directions will suffice. 

Choose an old bird by preference ; pluck and 
empty ifc, saving the heart, liver, and gizzard, 
also the neck; scald these well. Singe the 
bird, and scald the inside, then truss as if for 
roasting. 

Place some fat bacon or salt pork at the bot- 



THE '' DAUBIERE'' OR '' BRAISIERE:' 79 

torn of tlie daublere, your bird upon that,, and 
pack round it tlie giblets^ a calf's foot split and 
quartered, two or three carrots split and quar- 
tered, an onion, some ba3^-leaves, tliyme, and 
parsley. Add peppercorns and a little salt, a 
cupful of good stock, and a glass of wine if 
liked : then cover up tightly, and cook gently 
for five or six hours. 

If intended to be eaten cold, the bird should 
be lifted out, the liquor strained off into a 
saucepan, and allowed to boil gently until re- 
duced to one-third; then all fat must be re- 
moved, and a white of q^^ added to clarify it. 

When nearly cold, the bird may be carefully 
coated all over with this glaze. Garnished 
with curled parsley, it is a handsome dish, and 
no fear need be felt as to whether it will prove 
tender or no. 

The giblets and vegetables would be served 
with the bird if eaten hot; in any case, they 
make an appetising little dish by themselves 
with a little of the gravy. 

A ham may be successfully braised in this 
vessel, and thus cooked it will be found to 
retain far more flavour than if it were boiled. 

It goes without saying that it requires 
nothing with it save a little water. The juice 



8o THE ''DAUBIERE" OR '' BRAISlkREy 

■wliicli runs from ifc^ with the addition of a little 
gelatine and white of eg^^ will make tlie glaze 
for ornamentincr it. 

In the South it is customary; after the meat 
is cooked; to lift it out on to the dish, and then 
to put in whatever vegetables are intended to 
bo eaten with it ; say, for example, a leg of 
mutton has been cooked in the daubiere, and it 
is intended to have a dish of haricots or flageo- 
lets to accompany it; these last will have been 
boiled until tender, then dropped into the dau- 
biere to finish cooking in the ^^ jus/' 

The potatoes also would take their turn in 
like manner, the result being that they will 
all receive the flavour of the gravy, and " har- 
monise ^' with the principal. Plain boiled 
vegetables are regarded as incomplete. 

Before closing this chapter, I would mention 
the class of meat dishes known as the '' galan- 
tines/^ 

Although not cooked in precisely the same 
way, not necessarily in the daubiere at all, still 
the principle is the same. They may be made 
of either cooked or uncooked meat. 

AVlien fresh meat is used, the portion is often 
'^ pique," or larded with something which con- 
trasts in colour , the white meat of veal has a 



THE '' DAUBIERE'' OR '' BRAISIEREP 8i 

truffle or two inserted^ and red meats will Lave 
tlie contrast of a green nasturtium seed^, etc. 

I will describe tlie preparation of a ^'^ galan- 
tine de volaille " when made of cooked meat. 

All the flesh parts of a fowl_, previously 
boiled J should be sliced very thinh', a small 
quantity of ham and tongue alsOj a little sau- 
sage-meat mixed with chopped parsley, herbs 
and bread crumbs, and made up into little 
balls, two eggs hard boiled, also sliced, and a 
little red beetroot cut into strips. 

Take a fluted mould, arrange these ingredi- 
ents in order, having regard to the appearance 
when turned out, then take a cupful of cloar 
stock, season it well, add a little gelatine (pre- 
viously dissolved), colour it a light brown, and 
pour over all. Place the mould in a corner of 
the oven to cook gently for an hour, then 
weight it well, and stand aside till quite cold. 

A galantine made of fresh meat would, of 
course, take lc»nger to cook, but it would also 
require pressing with a weight, as these dishes 
are intended to be sliced very delicately. 

As lunclieon, supper, or "^reserve ^' dishes 
they will be found exceedingly useful, looking 
as well as tasting very good. 

P.C. 



CHAPTEPt VII. 

fvmm auD *' Saute "*=mo» 

FRYING plays an important part in Frencli 
cookery, but it is a very different method 
to that which is pursued by most English cooks. 

The English way more nearly resembles what 
a Frenchwoman would call " to saute/^ that is_, 
to toss up, turning' first to one side, then to the 
other, in only a little fat, wliile the vessel used 
is a sliallow one. 

This method has its advantasfes for several 
things — vegetables, for instance^ which are to 
be lightly browned, chops or steaks which re- 
quire very quickly doing, and most dishes of 
eggs, such as omelettes, alihougli these last 
should have a vessel kept for their sole use. 

Fish of all kinds, bread-crumbed cutlets, 
rissoles, fritters, etc., all require to be plunged 
into boiling fat. The principle in cooking them 
is the same as in boiling meat — to form a ci'usfc 

S2 



FRYING AND '' SAUTE''-ING. 8 



3 



at once upon the outside that sliall keep in tlia 
flavours and juices of the article fried. 

For this purpose a, deep iron vessel is the 
only true frying-pan ; its depth may be from 
six to eight inches, and its dimensions sufficient 
to take in a good-sized fish. Most French pans 
of this description have the handles across the 
top, so that the pan can be hung on a chain if 
more convenient when using over an open fire. 

Here again the charcoal stove is preferable, 
as the embers should be red-hot; it is impossi- 
ble to fry well over a smoky or blazing fire. 

These frying-pans are invariably quite half 
filled with fat ; at first sight it may seem ex- 
travagant, but it is not really so, as Avith care, 
and taking due precautions, the same fat will 
serve very many times. 

If poured off into a jar, which already con- 
tains a little boiling water, as soon as it is 
finished with, and covered over when quite 
cold, keeping in a cool place, it will but seldom 
require renewing. Of course, when fish has 
been fried in this, it should be reserved for 
that purpose alone_, as also anything else of a 
strong flavour. 

An excellent idea of good frying might be 
gained by watching the performance of the 



84 FRYING AND '' SAUTE''-ING, 

*' marcliand de pommes-de-terre frites/^ whose 
stall is sucli a commoa sight in the streets of 
all French towns. 

His little furnace is filled with coke_, red-hot, 
the iron pan, slung on a chain, so that he can 
raise or lower it at will, is three parts full of 
boiling fat. The fat he prefers, by the bye, is 
suet melted, as it is clear and tasteless. 

The potatoes, pared, drained, and cut into 
finsrer lenorths by a little machine made for the 
purpose, are thrown into the pan, and occa- 
sionally stirred about ; a few minutes see them 
cooked, brown and crisp, then the pan is drawn 
up, the potatoes lifted out into the strainer; 
and here it should be noted how careful he is 
not to leave one in the fat, lest that should, by 
being overdone, impart a burnt flavour to the 
rest. 

In this same manner suburban Parisian 
restaurants will turn out the most tempting 
dishes from the rather coarse and tasteless river 
fish. If the precaution is taken to have the fat 
quite boiling, there is no fear of anything be- 
coming soddened with grease when cooked in 
this way. Boiling fat is generally still, free 
from bubbles, and a faint blue vapour may be 
seen to rise from it. 



FRYING AND '' SAUTE ''-ING: 85 

It is really more difiScult to saute to perfec- 
tion than it is to fry well. In the former case^ 
the great point to observe is to take care the 
saute is not too mnch done^ as in that case it 
will not be eatable. To toss it light and quickly, 
and remove before it has had time to become 
tough_, is a safe rule. 

Potatoes are very frequently dressed in this 
manner when intended to eat with veal or 
pork; finely chopped parsley is sprinkled over 
them just before serving. Cold boiled potatoes 
are by this means rendered equal to fresh ones. 

Carrots, turnips, and parsnips, with a variety 
of beans, are all excellent if so treated. 

Eggs may be lightly tossed in the saute pan 
without actually making an omelette of them. 
Parsley is a great addition to all sautes. 

A favourite form of using up cold meat by 
frying is to make " rissoles. ^^ 

Remains of any meat or poultry, with a few 
bread-crumbs, herbs and a minced shallot, and 
a little good sauce to moisten the whole. 

Eoll out a sheet of paste (puff paste is the 
best) to an eighth of an inch in thickness, cut 
into squares, place a little of the mince in the 
middle, fold over securely, and fasten the edges 
together with white of eg^ : plunge into the pan 



86 FRYING AND '' SAUTE"-ING. 

of boiling fat, let tlicrn cook a few minutes, 
wlien tliey will swell out and become deliciously 
crisp and brown. 

If drained on a sheet of blotting-paper, then 
garnished with curled parsley, quite a hand- 
some dish may be obtained at a very small cost. 

Sweet rissoles may be made the same way, 
substituting minced apples, bread crumbs, and 
a little honey for the meat. 

The " Beignet aux pommes," the really 
genuine apple fritter, is rather different to the 
apple fritter of the English cook. 

The batter is made by mixing a tablespoonful 
of flour smoothly with a little water, then add- 
ing a little salt, a spoonful of olive oil, and two 
beaten whites of eggs. 

The apples are pared, quartered, and evenly 
sliced, then allowed to soak a little while in 
some sweet wine, with a few drops of lemon- 
juice. AVhen ready to use them, dip each piece 
in the batter, and drop into the boiling fat. 
AVhen cooked and drained, they should be 
liberally frosted with white sugar. 

Oranges may be done in this way, also 
rhubarb cut into short j)ieces. Many little 
cakes made of dough may be fried in this way, 
and they are truly delicious. 



FRYING AND '' SAUTE ''-ING. Sy 

Where butter or meat fat is difficult to obtain, 
boiling oil is used for tlie same purposes ; it 
is an excellent substitute wlien once one has 
become accustomed to the flavour. 

In Italy and Spain it is generally preferred 
to any other fat. 

French pancakes or " crepes ^^ are dropped 
into boiling fat; hence the curious shapes they 
assume: the cause of much merriment at carnival 
parties. 

But they are certainly not superior to the 
genuine English pancake, the shallow frying- 
pan being eminently suited to this dish, and 
here at least the English cook can hold her 
own. 

It used to be the boast of the old race of 
Virginian cooks that they could toss a pancake 
with such accuracy up the mouth of the \nde 
chimney, that it would turn itself, and come 
down, like St. Lawrence, ready to have the 
other side fried. 

Fortunately, it is not necessary to attain the 
skill needful to perform this acrobatic exploit 
in order to turn out a first-class pancake. In 
the making of these, as in most other things, 
experience is the best teacher. 

The distinction should always be observed 



88 FRYING AND '' SAUTE'' ING. 

between a fritter and a pancake, remembering 
that tlie one is boiled in fat, while the other is 
fried — first one side and then the other. 

When makinsf a number of fritters or small 
things, it is a great convenience to place them 
in one of the wire baskets, sold for the purpose, 
before plunging them in the pan. 

Omelettes are a ^^race apart," and will be 
found under the head of ^' Maigre Dishes." 
They can scarcely be said to be fried, and tlioy 
certainly are not boiled. 



CHAPTER YIII. 

Some Gateaui* anb Compotes, 

WHILE standing pre-eminent in the o.rfc of 
pastry-making, the Frencli cook is not 
great in tlie matter of cakes. A glance at the 
" Patissier's ^' window will show this directly. 
Amongst all the appetising array of dainty con- 
fections the nnmber of cakes may be counted 
upon one's fingers. And the "bourgeoise mena- 
gere ^' would never dream of making a loaf of 
cake, although she has a great appreciation of 
both plum-cake and plum-pudding ; while her 
English sister is ever on the look-out for some- 
thing new to add to her already lengthy list. 

Here, be it stated, the '^ gateau ^^ is not 
exactly a '' cake/' it is rather a dessert dish, 
and as such is most generally used in the 
country where puddings are little known. Al- 
though some of them in their fanciful decoration 
are beyond the scope of the amateur, still a few 
of them may be fairly well imitated. 

80 



90 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 

The ^^ Genoise fourree '^ is the foundation of 
many charming gateaux — the fourree, or filling, 
being varied at will. 

The number of eggs needed depends upon the 
size of the gateau required. The whites and 
yolks are separated, and both thoroughly beaten; 
with the yolks a little rose water or orange- 
flower water is mixed ; pounded sugar and fine 
dry flour in proportions of a quarter of a pound 
of each to four eggs; the whites are added last 
of all, and the whole thoroughly beaten, then 
poured into a well-buttered tin not more than 
two to three inches in depth, and baked in a 
quick oven till a delicate brown. 

For a '^ gateau d'Abricots,'^ this would be 
split open and apricot preserve spread between ; 
the whole would then be covered with clear 
sugar icing, and richly ornamented with candied 
fruits. Or sometimes in place of preserve will 
be found the '^ creme Frangipane ^^ and the 
icing, or, as a substitute for the icing, caramel 
would be used. 

The same foundation is used for a chocolate or 
coffee cream gateau ; the cream consisting of 
butter and pounded sugar well beaten together, 
with the addition of made coffee or chocolate. 
This being very stiff" is used also for the outside 
decoration^ and is wreathed into many fantastic 



SOME gAtEAUX and COMPOTES, 91 

forms; tLe outer edge of the gateau being 
covered witli grated almonds. 

^'^Ptite d'Eclair '' is the foundation of quite a 
distinct kind of gateau. 

Its ingredients are butter, flour, and beaten 
eggs, no sugar, but a pinch of salt. The butter 
is first dissolved in a lined saucepan, the flour 
briskly stirred in, a small quantity of warm 
milk added, and this is boiled, stirring rapidly 
all the time, for about five minutes. It must not 
be stifl" even theu, therefore but a small quantity 
of flour is needed. Let this become cool before 
stirring into it the well-whisked eggs. 

For ^^ Eclairs aux Chocolat^' this batter 
would be poured into little boat-shaped moulds, 
well oiled, and when cooked they would be split 
open and a spoonful of custard cream inserted 
in the hollow, closed up again, and the outside 
coated over with melted chocolate. 

^' Choux Ti la creme ^^ are round tartlets made 
of this batter, the hollow filled with cream. 
The pate, if made "a little stiffer, is used for 
fancy erections, basket-work devices, etc. 

^^ Frangipane " is a delicious creamy custard. 
To beaten eggs, new milk and a very little flour 
are added, with fine white sugar; these are 
brought nearly to boiling-point, and when thick, 
crushed ratifias, a glass of brandy, lemon-juice, 



92 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 

and a little butter are stirred in. Tartlets made 
of pate feuillete are filled with this. 

A '^ gateau au riz ^' is a sweet dish very 
popular in France. Whole rice is cooked in 
milk till quite soft, and the milk nearly ab- 
sorbed; then sugar, lemon-juice, a little butter, 
and beaten eggs are well stirred in. The mix- 
ture is poured into a shallow mould, which has 
been well buttered and coated with fine bread- 
crumbs and sugar. This is baked until firmly 
set, when it is turned out, and covered all over 
with caramel, and ornamented according to 
fancy. It is always eaten cold. 

The " brioche ^^ is quite a different production 
to the English bun. One-third of the quantity 
of flour intended to be used is mixed to a very 
soft paste with a little frothing yeast and warm 
water ; with the other two-thirds of flour, eggs, 
a little butter, a few currants, salt, and more 
warm water are mixed to a soft paste again. 
These two pastes are then kneaded together to 
form a dough, which is left to rise several hours ; 
then the brioches are cut out, brushed over with 
egg and milk, and baked very quickly. They 
are exceedingly light, and much liked by people 
who do not care for sweet cakes. 

The same mixture is baked in loaves, which 
are cut up and buttered, as for bread and butter. 



SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 93 

The cakes made at the fetes in the country 
towns and villages are very similar, more or 
less rich, with or without the fruit, according to 
the custom of the district. 

Here should be mentioned the *^ tarte/' the 
genuine country tart, which makes its appear- 
ance on every table when the ^' ducasse '"' or 
'^ wakes " come round. The crust bears some 
resemblance to the ^^ pate d'Eclair,^^ but the 
country flour renders it mucli more substantial ; 
the custard which frills it is a wonderful com- 
pound of eggs, milk and sugar, spice, with 
here and there an occasional raisin making its 
appearance. 

When well made, this compound is very good, 
but an inferior make has an unfortunate resem- 
blance to leather, and needs a country appetite 
to make it ^' go down.^' 

When making tarts of fresli fruit, the " bour- 
geoise ^^ will invariably make a marmalade of 
lier fruit before laying it on her crust; placing 
a lattice-work of strips of pastry to finish off the 
top. A fruit ^^ pie," or tart, witli tke crust over 
the fruit, is quite unknown in France. 

Puddings are but little adopted in French 
families, gaufres and biscuits, with ^^ confiture," 
in winter, or compote of fruit in summer. Fresh 
fruit and cheese is the general finish to a dinner. 



94 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 

Pastry ciiid sv/eets are only inclLilged in on 
Sundays and extra occasions. 

Nearly all fruits may be made into compotes. 
The syrnp should be made first by dissolving 
sugar in water, and allowing it to boil ; then 
the fruit is added, whole or divided, and cooked 
until tender ; the syrup remaining after the 
fruit is removed may be boiled till it thickens, 
and receive colouring to make it contrast, if 
desired. 

A compote of apples, pared and quartered, 
cooked in clear syrup, the remaining liquor 
coloured with cochineal, makes a very pretty 
dish. Pears invariably receive the addition of 
claret, and they are cooked in the oven^ as they 
require a much longer time. The wine is 
thought no extravagance, as it so greatly 
enriches the fruit. 

There is a very wide difference between a 
compote and ^^ stewed fruit," but with the 
former, as with the latter, the addition of a 
little whipped cream or custard is a great 
improvement. 

The good ^^ menagere " generally prefers to 
make her own ^^ liqueurs.'^ For all of them the 
fruit is steeped in spirit till all the goodness is 
extracted, then sugar equal to the weight of the 



SOME GATEAUX AXD COMPOTES. 95 

liquor is added, and all boiled together for 
about tweiit}^ minutes. AVlien cool_, it is bottled 
off. They make very ^vliolesome drinks Avith 
the addition of water. 

There is a sweefc pickle of very high repute 
ia Switzerland. Date-plumS;, dry and sound, 
and not too ripe, are taken and placed in salt 
and water for forty-eight hours. They are 
then drained and dried in the sun. Afterwards 
they are put into jars, and boiling vinegar with 
pounded sugar (a pound to a pint) is poured 
over them. When cool, they are closely covered 
and set away. It is a delicious pickle for cold 
meat. Cherries also are very good done this 
way. 



Souffle un Citpon. 

A souffle may be either steamed or baked ; 
in either case it must be eaten without a 
moment's loss of time, as it falls directly. Re- 
member also to only partly fill the mould which 
is used; this species of "gateau^' usually 
trebles itself in size while cooking*. 

To make a souffle for six persons, take a pint 
of milk, four ounces of lump sugar, and three 
fresh eggs. Boil the milk and sugar, together 



96 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 

witli the pared leuioii riiid^ in a lined saucepan. 
Mix smootlily with a little cold milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, then pour the boiling milk 
on to this, taking care there are no lumps. 
Return all to the saucepan, and boil, stirring 
rapidly, for three or four minutes, then pour 
this into a basin. 

When the above mixture is perfectly cold, 
beat into it the whisked yolks of eggs, the juice 
of half a lemon (the rind must have been re- 
moved before), and lastly the frothed whites. 
Have your mould well buttered, pour the mix- 
ture into it, and either bake or steam it (without 
a cover) for twenty minutes. The cover of the 
steamer must of course be fastened down; there 
should be sufficient depth of pan to allow of the 
souffle rising without coming in contact with the 
lid. Serve citron sauce with this souffle. {See 
Chapter V.) 

If preferred, the flavouring may be omitted 
from the souffle, and a chocolate sauce made 
and poured round it on the dish. For the 
latter, scrape or dissolve a tablet of chocolate, 
add a quarter of a pint of water to it, and a 
teaspoonful of cornflour to give smoothness and 
substance ; boil well. 

It will be easily seen that a plain souffle may 



SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 97 

be varied by the admixture of almost any 
flavouring, also by the variety of sauces served 
with it. 

The first part of the mixture may be made 
any time in advance. 

Diplomate. 

Remove the crust from some thin slices of 
stale white bread, and stamp them into small 
rounds; dip each one in sweet wine. (If pre- 
ferred, sponge biscuits or stale sponge cakes 
may be used instead.) Butter a plain round 
mould. Arrange the rounds evenly at the 
bottom and sides, sprinkle the bottom with 
stoned raisins, a few currants and strips of 
candied peel. Put another layer of bread or 
biscuits next, and alternate thus with the fruit 
until the mould is three-quarters filled. Boil 
a pint of milk, pour it after sweetening upon 
two beaten eggs, add spice and salt; then care- 
fully pour this custard into the mould. Let 
the mould stand for two or three hours, then 
bake or steam it for three-quarters to one hour. 
Turn out, and serve with wine or custard sauce 
poured round it. 

p.c. H 



98 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 



Savarin. 

The mould generally used for this is a large 
ring with a hollow centre. 

The ingredients required are half a pound of 
fine flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, half 
a tumblerful of warm milk, an ounce of fresh 
German yeast, a tablespoonful of sugar and half 
a teaspoonful of salt, with two eggs. 

Put the flour in a basin, make a hollow iu the 
centre, and put in the j'east mixed smoothly 
with warm water and the milk ; mix this with 
sufficient of the flour to make a stiff dough. 
Cover the basin, and set that in a warm place 
where the sponge may rise. When it has 
risen to twice its original size, add to it the 
sugar, the butter ready dissolved (but not too 
warm), salt, and the eggs — broken but not 
beaten. Knead these all briskly together with 
the hand, until the dough appears all bubbles. 

Butter the mould, and sprinkle the inside 
wdth blanched and chopped almonds and pow- 
dered sugar. Half fill it with the paste; set in 
a warm place to rise until the mould becomes 
quite full. 

Bake it in a quick oven for about half an 
hour. Let it slightly cool, then turn out on to 



SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 99 

a fancy dish, and ponr over it the following 
syrup :— 

Four ounces of sugar boiled with a tumbler- 
ful of water, and flavoured with a little rum or 
essence. 

Galette Cherbourg'eoise. 

Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
work it into half a pound of baker's dough ; 
add to it two beaten eggs, two spoonfuls of 
spirits of wine or other spirit, and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Knead or beat well for several 
minutes ; let it stand in a warm place to rise 
for a couple of hours, place in a buttered tin 
which it will only three parts fill, and bake for 
thirty minutes; turn out and serve hot. 

Galette Lorraine. 

Rub together half a pound of flour and half 
as much butter, add a pinch of salt and an Qg^, 
with water sufficient to form a stiff paste. 
Roll out to the thickness of a five-shilling piece, 
place on a buttered tin, crimp the edge, then 
bake in the oven for a few minutes ; W'hen 
partly done draw it out, and pour upon it a 
cream made from two beaten eggs and a cup of 
svv^eetened milk. Sprinkle a few chopped nuts 



loo SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 

over, and bake nntil the custard is set and 
browned. 

Saint Honope. 

Make a paste by putting into a saucepan a 
tumblerful of water, a little sugar, tlie size of 
an e^^^^ in butter, a pincli of salt, and a small 
bit of lemon rind ; and when these are boiling, 
dredge lightly and carefully in with one hand 
(stirring vigorously all the time with the other) 
sufficient flour to make a light paste. 

Keep stirring for five minutes longer, then 
take off the fire, and allow the paste to cool. 
When cool, break into it three eggs, one after 
the other, beating the paste all the time. 

Form part of this paste as the crust of a tart- 
let, and bake it in the oven till of a bright brown. 

Drop the remaining paste in small balls on to 
a buttered tin ; bake them also. When the 
tartlet is done, take these balls, coat them with 
melted sugar, and place them all round the edge 
of it, pour the remaining syrup over all the 
edgre asrain. Fill the interior with a thick 
pastry cream, or whipped cream, and serve 
fresh. 

Marasquin. 

Blanch and crush half a pound of sweet 
almonds. Add to the paste four ounces of 



SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. loi 

butter or pure lard, four ounces of dry flour, 
the same weiglit of sugar, two eggs — the whites 
and yolks beaten separately, two spoonfuls of 
orange-flower water, a pinch of salt and spoonful 
of cream. 

Beat these ingredients well together, and 
spread them over a round of good puff paste. 
Bake for upwards of half an hour. Glaze the 
surface with sugar and water^ or a little dis- 
solved sweet jelly. 

QuatPe-quarts. {Your Quarters.) 

Take three or four eggs. The same weight 
in flour, butter, and powdered sugar; mix all 
well together, and add a glassful of spirit or 
orange flower-water to the whole. The whites 
of the eggs should be beaten stiff and added 
lastly. Butter a mould, sugar it well, and bake 
the cake in a moderate oven for upwards of an 
hour. 

May be flavoured at discretion. 

Gateau d'oeufs, au Vanille. 

Separate the yolks and w^iites of four eggs. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, then lightly stir 
into them four spoonfuls of powdered sugar 
and a few drops of essence of vanilla (if vanilla 



I02 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 

is disliked, use lemon-jaice) ; have ready a fancy 
mould well buttered and sprinkled inside with 
sugar. Pour the whites into this — they should 
not more than half fill it — and steam the mould, 
setting it in a hain-marie. When it has well 
risen and seems set, turn it out on to a dish, 
and pour round it a sweet custard made from 
the yolks. Garnish with currant jelly. 

Creme Renversee. 

For a moderately large mould take a quart of 
milk and boil it with half a pound of lump sugar 
and fresh lemon rind, or part of a pod of vanilla. 
When cooled a little, stir it into eight eggs 
lightly beaten, the yolks and whites together, 
then pour this cream into a buttered mould 
which will just contain it, and set the mould in 
a hain-marie ov in a cool oven. When the cream 
is become solid, set the mould in a cold place, 
and when required turn it out on to a dish, and 
place currant jelly around it. 

Creme Sambayone. 

Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs. 
Place the yolks in a saucepan, with three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and a wineglassful of rum or 
brandy ; stir these briskly together over the fire 



SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 103 

until the mixture begins to thicken, when with- 
draw it at once. Beat the whites to a stiff froth 
and stir them into the yolks when the latter 
mixture is cool. Pour into ^mall glasses or 
cups. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Line the bottom and sides of a plain mould 
with finger biscuits and ratafias. Fill up the 
mould with whipped cream, or a cream made 
with isinglasS; which when cold will become 
solid. 

Set the mould on ice or in a very cold place. 
Turn out of the mould iust before briuo-insr to 
the table. 

Compote of Quinces. 

Throw some quinces into boiling water for a 
few minutes, lift them out and pour a little cold 
water over them. Next, peel them carefully, 
take out seeds and cores, quarter and sub- 
quarter them and put these latter into a little 
clear boiling syrup and allow them to cook until 
thoroughly done. Take the fruit out on to a 
dish, boil the syrup a little longer to reduce it, 
then pour over the fruit. 



104 SOME GAtEAUX AND COMPOTES. 

Compote of Pears. 

Pare tlie pears very thinly, slice them not too 
thinly^ but removing the pips. Lay them in a 
stewpan with two or three lumps of sugar, a 
clove or two, and blade of cinnamon. Pour over 
them a tumblerful of claret and water enough 
to just cover them. Cover up the stewpan, 
place it in the corner of the oven and let the 
pears cook gently thus for at least an hour or 
more. 

Compote of Cherries. 

Make a clear syrup Avith sugar and a little 
water. Cut away all the stalk save about half 
an inch from some sour cherries. Let them 
cook in the syrup until thoroughly soft. Allow 
them to get cold in this before removing them 
to a dish. 

Compote of Plums. 
Make the syrup, and put the plums in when 
it is boiling hot. Let them cook not too rapidly, 
until they show signs of breaking, then remove 
them to a dish, and pour the syrup over. 

Compote of Prunes. 

Let the prunes soak for several hours in cold 
water. Pour away this water, then place the 



SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 105 

prunes in a stewpan with sufficient fresh water 
to cover them and a few lumps of sugar. Cover 
closely and cook slowly for a couple of hours. 

Compote of Rhubarb. 

Make a little syrup ; cut the rhubarb — after 
wiping with a clean cloth — into inch lengths. 
Drop the pieces into the syrup and cook until 
they show signs of breaking. Remove the fruit 
to a dish. Add a few drops of lemon juice to 
the syrup^ boil it until it becomes reduced, and 
pour over the rhubarb. 

When making a compote of strawberries use 
red currant juice instead of water for the syrup. 

It is generally sufficient to pour a boiling 
syrup over ripe strawberries, having the berries 
in a dish which will not break, and letting them 
lie in the syrup until perfectly cold before re- 
moving to their proper dish. 



CHAPTER IX. 

WniLE, in tlie present degenerate clays, 
^' fast days" are but little observed in 
comparison with the fasliion of keeping them in 
the old times, when the ''cures'^ held undisputed 
sway, still, amongst fairly good Catholics, Friday 
is set apart as a day when no meat shall appear 
on the table — while the weeks of Lent are the 
butcher's holiday time. 

Good Friday is rigidly kept as a day of absti- 
nence by all classes; almost superstitiously 
kept, indeed, for to cat meat or any animal fat 
on that day would be regarded as a wilful 
courting of calamity. Even eggs and butter 
are excluded from the menu of the good 
Catholic on that occasion. 

As a rule, to " faire maigre " is merely to 
abstain from meat, its place being taken by 
fLsli. During the Lenten season it is somewhat 

lor, 



''MAIGRE'' DISHES. 107 

difficult to find vegetables to make separate 
dislies froui; the winter's supply being nearly 
exhausted, or becoming tough, while it is still 
too early in the year to look for fresh ones. 

The ^^ menagere/^ therefore, looks to her fowl 
pen as her great resource, and, fortunately, eggs 
are by then both good and plentiful and fairjy 
cheap. Fish is generally abundant at that 
time, and a good choice to be had. 

Almost all vegetable soups come under the 
title of ^^maigre," but "potage an lait'^ is 
eminently entitled to do so. In the best 
" cuisines ^^ it is made after this fashion. 

A quart of milk is boiled for a little time to 
extract the flavour from a small piece of lemon 
rind, a few coriander seeds, and a small piece 
of stick cinnamon ; a pinch of salt and several 
lumps of sugar. It is then strained, and a 
small quantity poured over the soft part of a 
thick slice of bread cut into dice, and put in 
the tureen. 

This is placed wdiere it will keep hot, and 
into the remainder of the milk two yolks of 
eggs should be stirred, and then allowed to boil 
till they slightly thicken the milk, when it also 
is poured into the tureen and served immedi- 
ately. 



io8 ''MAIGRE'' DISHES. 

" Bisque/^ made from crab, is generally 
thought to be a rather rare dish, but it can be 
made with very little trouble. 

From a cooked crab all the fleshy part should 
be taken and carefully pounded in a mortar 
with an equal quantity of boiled rice, a little 
water, and cayenne pepper; pass it through a 
tamis, and add a sufficient quantity of boiling 
milk or cream; then pour into a hot tureen. 

A very small quantity of lobster butter (which 
is simply the coral of a lobster pounded with 
butter), if stirred in, will turn it a bright red, 
and make a very pretty dish. 

A very delicate and tasty dish of salted cod- 
fish is made as follows : To clear the fish from 
salt it is allowed to lie in water for twenty-four 
hours; it is then slightly boiled, drained, ai d 
broken into flakes. 

Into the saute pan a few knobs of butter are 
put to melt, then a little white bread, roughly 
crumbed, and a teacupful of cold mashed 
potatoes; these are tossed about with a fork, 
and a cupful of milk added by degrees, with a 
good seasoning of pepper ; lastly, the flakes of 
cod are added, and all Avell beaten with the fork 
until it froths; it is then poured out into a hot 
dish and eaten with strips of toasted bread. 



''MAIGRE" DISHES. 109 

A favourite way of cooking flat fisli, sncli as 
soles or plaice, witli French cooks is to do tliem 
'' au gratin/^ When so cooked, they should be 
served in the same dish; a silver one is best, 
but a bright block tin will answer the purpose. 

The bottom of the dish is well buttered, and 
spread with finely-minced herbs, a shallot or 
two, seasoning, and bread-crumbs. The fish is 
placed upon this bed, and covered over with 
the same mixture; then placed in the oven to 
bake. A glass of white wine is generally 
added. 

'^ Sole a la Normande^' is done similarly to 
the preceding ; but a rich sauce, made of melted 
butter, yolks of eggs, button mushrooms, oysters, 
and a little lemon-juice and white wine, is poured 
over the fish before sending to table. It is a 
truly Epicurean dish. 

Mackerel and herrings are excellent when 
split open, boned, and broiled over a clear fire; 
they are better still if the following sauce be 
poured over them : Melted butter (slightly 
thickened with flour), a spoonful of vinegar, 
the same of Worcestershire sauce, also one of 
chopped parsley ; pepper and salt to taste. 

We will now consider the subject of omelettes 
■ — cue of the easiest things to make, and also 



no ''MAIGRE'' DISHES. 

one of the easiest to spoil. It is strange how 
few English cooks seem able to turn out a 
really good omelette, and yet the veriest ^' pay- 
sanne '^ in a country cafe in sunny France will 
make one, at a moment's notice, to satisfy the 
most critical taste. 

Let us, in imagination, visit one of these 
cafes, and watch how the good wife proceeds. 
Setting a light to her charcoal braisiere, she 
will wait till the embers are red, then put on 
her pan, generally a black iron saute pan, kept 
for this purpose alone ; into this she drops a 
lump of butter, and while it is melting she 
breaks her eggs on to a plate, beats them 
quickly with a knife, and adds salt and pepper 
to them. 

When the butter is frothing and turning 
brown, she pours in the eggs, slips a knife 
underneath the middle and round the edge, to 
insure it not sticking to the pan, and as soon as 
ever it is "set,'' she "whips'' off her pan, 
claps a hot plate over it, and with a dexterous 
twist manages to turn it upside down, and re- 
move the pan, leaving the omelette on the plate 
— light, with a delicate brown crust upper- 
most. 

This plain omelette may be varied ad in- 



'' MAIGRE'' DISHES. in 

finitnm by adding minced onion_, lierl)s^ parsle3^_, 
mnsliroomSj cheeso_, or "whatever fancy may 
dictate. 

Another way of making* omelettes is to beat 
the eggs_, whites and yolks separately_, and add 
a few spoonfuls of milk. This makes quite a 
different kind, and is more suitable for sweet 
omelettes when preserves or jellies are eaten 
v/ith them. 

Two eggs per person is a very moderate 
allowance when makino" sino-le omelettes. When 

o o 

several persons are intending to partake at the 
same time, it is better to use more eggs, and 
make one large one. 

Salad is a delicious companion dish to a 
savoury omelette, and makes it a very substantial 
luncheon or supper dish. When ham is obtain- 
able, some very thin slices slightly frizzled are 
also an excellent addition, when not intending 
to make a meal exclusively " au maigre." 

Eggs are also very good when cooked "au 
gratin.'^ The same preparation is used as for 
" sole au gratin,^' and the eggs broken on to the 
bed, and allowed to cook until just firm. 

A great variety of excellent " maigre ^' dishes 
may be made from rice and macaroni. Rice is, 
perhaps, most generally liked when used for 



112 ''MAIGRE'' DISHES. 

sweet dishes, or in curries. AVith cheese or 
fruit it is an excellent food. 

Macaroni is not generally appreciated in 
England_, but on the Continent it becomes a 
wholesome and delicious preparation. Dishes 
of macaroni, with tomatoes, mushrooms, trutSes, 
cheese, or fish are all good. 

The following recipe may be novel to many 
people : — After the macaroni has been boiled 
and drained, put it into a stewpan with a lump 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and as 
much grated Parmesan as will make it as thick 
as custard; toss well together with a fork; then 
take a French roll, which has been previously 
soaked in wine and made hot ; pour the maca- 
roni over it, and slightly brown in the oven. 

Always put macaroni into boiling water with 
salt; allow twenty minutes for it to cook 
through; then drain well before using it. 



As being pre-eminently Lenten faring, most 
of the recipes for the cooking of fish will be 
found grouped under this heading. 

The method of cooking fish ^^au gratin " has 
been detailed above; the following is another 
capital way of treating flat fish : — 



''MAIGRE'- DISHES. 113 

After washiug and drying, cut it down the 
middle on the white side_, carefully raise the 
meat from the hones on each side, but do not 
lift it right off. Prepare a little light, well- 
seasoned stuffing of bread-crumbs, parsley, 
butter-seasoning and ^^^i no milk ; spread this 
on the under side of the raised flesh, press it 
down to the bone again, brush over the surface 
with beaten Q^^, sprinkle with seasoned crumbs; 
lay the fish in a buttered tin, put dabs of butter 
over the top, and bake for about fifteen minutes 
in a quick oven. The fish should be well 
browned on the surface, then slipped out on to 
a hot dish, and a white or brown sauce, with 
capers or chopped gherkins, poured around — 
not over — it. 

Morue a la Hollandaise. 

A cod's head and shoulders or a whole fish is 
best served this way. 

Boiled in water containing plenty of salt and 
one or two lemons cut in quarters. Drain it 
when a skewer will penetrate to the bone with 
ease. Lay on a folded serviette, place large, 
mealy, boiled potatoes around it, and tufts of 
curly parsley. Send pure butter melted to table 
in a tureen. 

p.c. I 



114 '' MAIGRE'' DISHES. 

Baked Cod. 

A fair-sized piece out of the middle of a cod. 
Crimp it, by cutting it tlirougli to tlie bone at 
regular distances. Sprinkle it liberally, inside 
and out, with pepper and salt and fresh parsley, 
squeeze lemon juice over it, lay in a baking tin, 
and bake in moderate oven, with frequent bast- 
ings of butter. Serve with ^^ maitre-d'hotel'^ 
butter. 

Halibut Steaks 

may be baked ''' au gratin,^' or grilled, or fried, 
and served with a brown *^ sance piqnante," or 
they may be done 

a la Creme. 

Dissolve an ounce of butter, stir into it a 
tablespoonful of flour, a little salt and pepper, 
and add a tumblerful of hot water. Lay the 
halibut in a buttered shallow stewpan, cover it 
with this sauce, let it simmer gently (covered 
over) until tender. A small white onion and 
bunch of sweet herbs should be put in the pan 
at the same time. AYhen the fish is sufficiently 
cooked remove it to a dish and keep hot. 

Take out the onion and flavourings, and 



''MAIGRE" DISHES. 115 



thicken the saace by adding the yolk of an egg 
and a few spoonfuls of cream to it; then pour 
it over tlie fish. A hard-boiled egg cut up small 
should be sprinkled over the top of all; or, 
instead of adding yolk of egg to the sauce, stir 
in a spoonful of anchovy essence with the cream, 
and use lobster coral, picked shrimps or prawns 
for the surface decoration. 



Salmon Steaks, 

wrapped in buttered notepaper, and slowly 
grilled over a clear, hot, but not blazing fire, 
then eaten with ^'_2x^//7s iiois'^ (see sequel to 
Chapter III.) are an Epicurean dish. 

Red mullet enveloped in the same manner — 
not stinting the butter, by the way — may be 
either baked or grilled, and are most delicious. 

When a portion out of the middle of a salmon 
is the piece chosen, it will be found that haJcivg 
it is a method preferable to the hoilivr/ thereof; 
although no method can surpass boiling for this 
king of fish if it be a whole one or a very laro-e 
piece. 

Squeeze a little fresh lemon juice over it 
before baking, and use only the best fresh 
butter. 



ii6 ''MAIGRE" DISHES. 

Mackerel and Herring's, 

like most oily fisli, will be found to bake better 
than boil. When possible the bones should be 
removed^ the fish rubbed on both sides with 
lemon juice, some fresh minced herbs and season- 
ing, with a few bread-crumbs, laid on the flat 
inner side of one fish, another one being laid 
sandwich fashion over this, then both baked to- 
gether, using but a very tiny bit of butter, only 
sufficient to keep the fish from adhering to the 
tin. 

There are two ways of ]^)lclding fish— {.c, for 
the lighter and more delicate kinds, taking the 
remaining portions of the fish after boiling, lay 
the meat flakes in a china dish, season lightly, 
place a few leaves of fennel, tarragon or parsley 
about, and pour a little wdiite wine vinegar over 
all. Set aside until required. 

Pickled mackerel, herrings, etc., after very 
thorough washing are laid in a pie-dish, 
sprinkled with salt, several pepper-corns added, 
and vinegar sufficient to cover them. Baked 
until they show signs of leaving the bone. 

In boiling any kind of fish it is better to have 
the water very nearly at boiling point when the 



''AIAIGRE" DISHES. 117 

fish is put ill, to bring it to the boil as quickly 
as possible, then to draw the pan aside and 
simmer until done. 

Never cook fish until it will not keep its 
shape ; as soon as a fine skewer will penetrate its 
thickest part it is done. 

For using up the remains of fish — when there 
are any nice pieces — few methods are better 
than to curry it. The flakes of fish will, how- 
ever, only require to be made hot in the curry, 
not cooked in it. 

A little vegetable or fruit — apple, rhubarb or 
gooseberry, — are needed in a fish curry, and 
eggs boiled hard and sliced, or boiled rice for 
its garnish. 

A Mayonnaise 

of cold boiled or baked fish is another excellent 
and delicate way of using up the remains. 

A crisp white-hearted lettuce, the fish broken 
into small flakes, sliced or chopped boiled eggy 
and a little good mayonnaise sauce (see Chapter 
V.) poured over all, and prettily decorated. 

AVe have it on the anthority of Professor 
Matthieu Williams that the chief reason why 
cheese is found to be difficult of digestion is be- 



ii8 '' MAIGRE'' DISHES. 

cause the mineral properties of tlie milk have 
been left behind in the whey. To neutralise the 
acid remaining in cheese, and to supply the 
deficiency mentioned, he advocates the use of a 
very small quantity of bicarbonate of potash — 
a proportion of a quarter of an ounce to every 
pound of cheese. This addition may be made 
to almost any dish in cheese cookery, and in this 
proportion will never be detected. 

The experiment is well worth the attention of 
those who, liking cheese, are yet unable to as- 
similate it. 

Cheese Pudding*, 

baked or steamed. 

Butter a small pudding mould, half fill it with 
thin slices of stale bread and butter — no crust — 
and between each slice make a layer of grated 
cheese. One beaten egg, half a small teaspoon- 
ful of mixed salt and pepper, and enough warm 
milk to fill- the mould, mixed together, a pinch 
of bicarbonate of potash being stirred into this, 
then the mould filled up. Cover with a plate, 
and let the pudding stand for at least an hour 
before cooking it. Bake in gentle oven for 
half an hour, steam for three-quarters. 



''MA1GRE-" DISHES. 119 

Cheese Fondu. 

Equal quantities of bread-crumbs and grated 
cheese, a little salt and pincli of cayenne_, a 
small nob of butter melted^ one or two beaten 
eggs, and milk to make it of the consistency of 
cream. Bake in shallow buttered dish till crisp 
and brown. 

Cheese Darioles. 

Make some dariole shapes from good short 
paste, fill up with the following mixture, and 
bake in a quick oven till browned. Yolks of 
two eggs_, white of one, a spoonful of melted 
butter or cream, two spoonfuls of grated cheese, 
pinch of potash, pepper and salt, mix together. 

Savoury Baked Rice. 

Cree a cupful of whole rice until tender, mix 
with it half a pint of milk, a beaten ^%^y pinch 
of cayenne, and a little salt, and some stale 
grated cheese of good flavour. Bake this mix- 
ture until well set in a buttered mould ; when 
done, turn it on to a dish, and surround it with 
a brown '^ sauce piquante,'^ or a tomato puree 
sharply seasoned. Or it may be served cold 
with a nicely dressed salad. 



I20 ''MAIGRE" DISHES. 

Cheese Fricassee. 

Frizzle a sliced Spanisli onion in a little but- 
ter; when brown, add to it a tablespoonful of 
brown roux or other brown sauce, sufficient 
warm water to make it of the right consistency ; 
season it well. Slice into this some stale Stilton, 
Cheddar, or other cheese, and let it gradually 
become very hot, but beware of allowing it to 
boil. Serve very hot, with toast '^ fingers'^ or 
with boiled cauliflower. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, 
brown or white ; cut off all crust. Spread grated 
cheese plentifully between, and pepper them 
well. Cut into small squares, and garnish with 
fresh watercress or parsley. 

Very nice for luncheon or supper, with celery 
or w^atercress. 

Another way : 

Spread cream cheese over the bread in lieu 
of butter; sprinkle with chopped cress, pepper 
lightly, and dust with salt. 



''MAIGRE'' DISHES. 121 



Cream Cheese Salads. 

Prepare a little dressing first of all by minc- 
ing together a small shallot^ sprigs of chervil^ 
thyme, parsley, tarragon, etc., and adding to 
them a pinch of salt and pepper, with a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and three of salad oil; 
then mix all well together. Separate the leaves 
of a crisp, well-hearted lettuce ; in the hollow of 
each leaf place a little rocky lump of cream 
cheese. Pour a spoonful of the dressing over, 
then arrange the leaves singly on a dish. 
Garnish with red radishes. 



Cheese Omelette. 

Break four eggs on to a plate, add to them a 
pinch of salt and pepper, and a spoonful of 
grated cheese ; beat up with the blade of a 
knife. Pour the mixture into the omelette pan, 
which should contain plenty of frothing butter. 
Stir it once or twice, when it is set sufficiently, 
fold one half over, slip it out on to a dish, grate 
a little more cheese on the top, and serve very 
hot. If not too stale, the cheese may be sliced^ 
instead of grated. 



122 "MAIGRE" DISHES. 

Mushroom Omelette. 

Remove tlie skins and stalks from half a 
dozen mushrooms ; cut them small, add a mmced 
shallot and teaspoonful of parsley, pepper and 
salt, then cook these together in a little butter. 

Make a plain omelette, lay the cooked mush- 
rooms on the one half, and fold over. 

Onion Omelette. 

Slice very thinly, and frizzle with the butter 
in the omelette pan, two small white onions. 
When they are brown, pour in the beaten eggs 
and seasoning', and cook as usual. Sprinkle the 
surface with a little parsley before bringing to 
table. 

Au Fines Herbes. 

Beat the eggs as for plain omelettes, and stir 
into them chopped chives, parsley, chervil, or 
an}^ herb available. Season and cook as before 
directed. 

Omelette au Sucre. 

Beat the yolks separately in one basin, the 
whites in another; to the j^olks add a table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, pinch of salt, and 



'' MAIGRE'' DISHES. 123 

one or two spoonfuls of milk ; stir in tlie wliites, 
and pour into the frothing butter. When the 
mixture is set^ fold it over, sprinkling powdered 
sugar over the top. 

Omelette au Rhum. 

Make a sweet omelette as above ; sugar it 
freely, and pour a wineglassful of rum or brandy 
around it, setting fire to the latter before bring- 
ing to table. 

Oeufs a la Neige. 

Boil a pint of milk with a pinch of salt, a few 
lumps of sugar, and small piece of fresh lemon 
rind. AVhen it boils remove the rind, and having 
ready the whites of two or three eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth, take up the latter by tablespoon- 
fuls, drop them carefully in the milk, and poach 
them thus for a few moments. Lift each '^^ snow- 
ball '^ out on to a dish, and when all are done 
pour the beaten yolks into the remainder of the 
milk, and stir until a thickish custard is formed. 
When the custard is cool, pour it round the 
snowballs in the dish, and sprinkle a few can- 
died cherries about. 

A very pretty dish. 



124 ''MAIGRE'' DISHES. 

Timbale of Macaroni. 

Line a round mould with good short paste ; 
fill it with the following preparation^ and put on 
the cover, closing the edges with beaten Q^^, 
and bake for three-quarters of an hour in 
moderate oven. Slip it carefully out of the 
mould, so as not to disturb the shape. Serve 
hot. 

Filling: Make a ^^ sauce financiere'^ (see 
Chapter V.), and stir into it a quarter of a 
pound of cooked macaroni. 

Or a white sauce may be made instead, the 
macaroni added, also some grated cheese. 



CHAPTER X. . 

ffncassees ant) IRccbautfecs. 

WITHOUT actually coming within the 
range of what may be called " fried ^^ 
dishes — that is, such as have been treated of 
under the heading of the ^^ Frying-pan " — there 
are sometimes occasions arising in the good 
menagere's arrangements for her table when 
she finds it wise to imitate somewhat the example 
of '^ good King Arthur's " economical spouse, 
and ^' what they could not eat that day, next 
day fry/-* by warming up in a delicate fashion, 
akin to frying, it is true, and yet with a degree 
of difference. 

A fricassee jpar excellence generally means 
fricassee of chicken, one which has been par- 
tially cooked expressly to be used in this man- 
ner ; but although poultry is especially nice, 
other meats may be made into very savoury 
dishes in the same wa3^ Many puddings will 

125 



126 FIUCASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES. 

also lend tlieniselves to tin's sort of ^^ warming 
up." 

PonUry shonkl be cut up into small joints, 
and all meat is better if small thick pieces are 
made of it for a fricassee ; a sauce or batter is 
then made as follows : all trimmings and por- 
tions not nice enough for the dish are boiled in 
a little stock with one or two onions, and a few 
herbs ; the fat removed. It is then thickened 
with a yolk of ^^^ mixed with a little flour. 
Each piece of chicken or meat is dipped in this, 
and then well crumbed over, and carefully 
fried. 

The remainder of the sauce may be browned, 
a spoonful of good ketchup added, then poured 
round the dish of crisp, brown morsels. Some 
French cooks would fry the pieces in oil sea- 
soned with garlic, but the above method is 
more generally practised. Of course this is a 
superior fricassee. 

For an ordinary family dish a plain batter 
would do, taking care to crumb over the pieces 
after they had been dipped in it; and if a 
few vegetables^ such as carrots and parsnips, 
with small onions, are also fried until just ten- 
der and lightly browned, then put with the bits 
of meat and a little gravy poured round, a very 



FRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES. 127 



appetising disli may be obtained at a little cost 
The potatoes whicli accompany tliis sliould also 
be fried. 

Another nice way, supposing the menagere 
has some cold lean beef — not too much cooked 
— which requires warming up, is to cut it into 
thin strips and slice some bacon very thinly, 
laying beef and bacon together; roll them up, 
fastening with a tiny skewer, and then dip in 
batter and fry them. A "sauce piquante " 
should be served with the rolls. 

Then, again, meat may be cut into dice, with 
a little fat bacon, a little cooked vegetable, and 
chopped onion, and fried in some hot fat in 
the saute pan. Let this be lightly tossed about 
until just brown, remove all superfluous fat and 
dredge a little flour over all ; a cupful of stock 
liquor should be poured in and the saute pan 
drawn away from the fire, leaving it to cook 
gently while you make a potato crust, either of 
cold mashed potatoes or freshly cooked ones. 
Mix them with an ^gg and a little milk to make 
them smooth, then cover a shallow tin plate 
about half an inch thick with this crust, crimp 
the edges and bake until brown, when the con- 
tents of the saute pan should be poured into 
the middle. 



128 FRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES. 

Meat, particularly beef and veal,, may he 
^^ recliaufie ^^ by making a good thick gravy or 
sauce and laying in it the meat^ cut in thin 
slices, to simmer gently till hot through without 
cookinof it ag-ain. If ham or bacon be added in 
this case it should be frizzled first, then put on 
the top when the dish is served. 

Mutton is better made into a rao-out. For 

o 

this a deep pie dish will answer the purpose 
excellently well — or the daubiere. Potatoes 
and onions pared and sliced evenly, the mutton 
(generally cooked) also sliced and each piece 
dipped into flour; fill the dish with alternate 
layers of these, then pour over some stock 
liquor made from bones, and a liberal seasoning 
of salt and pepper ; the dish is then well 
covered over and put in the oven for an hour 
and a half. 

If fresh mutton is used for a ragout, portions 
of the breast and trimmings will make the dish 
quite well enough. 

Another way of making a ragout is to cut the 
fresh meat into equal sized pieces, flour each one, 
cut a little salt bacon into strips, and a variety 
of vegetables also, arranging these ingredients 
in layers in a covered stewpan, and dredging 
flour between with salt and pepper; then cover 



FRJCASSAeS and RECHAUFFEES. 129 

witli water and leave to cook gently in a corner 
of tlie oven for some time — about a couple of 
hours. 

A frlcandeau is similar to tlie above^ only 
tlie meat would be left in one piece — a sliort 
thick piece is to be preferred, and if lean it 
may be larded. A slice of fat pork or bacon 
should cover the bottom of the stewpan; any 
vegetables may be used for this, and they 
should be placed around the piece of meat and 
over it. A cupful of stock poured over all. 

When cooked the meat and vegetables should 
be lifted on to a dish, the gravy skimmed from 
all fat, and a little thickening" and seasonino- 
added ; it should then be allowed to boil a few 
minutes before pouring over the dish. 

Nearly all fricandeaux are made after this 
fashion ; salsify, chicory or sorrel, and spinach, 
are good vegetables to use for this dish. 

Curries are well known in England, but the 
preparations known as ^'a la financiered^ may 
be somewhat novel. 

Various small things go to the composition 
of a financiere sauce — mushrooms, quenelles, 
cockscombs, sweetbreads sliced, sometimes 
truffles, giblets, etc. ; these are slowly cooked 
in a rich brown sauce, and a glass of good wine. 

P.C. K 



130 FRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES. 

This is chiefly used in garnishing entrees and 
other dishes. Quenelles are small balls made 
of delicate forcemeat. 

A veal cutlet ^^ a la financiere '^ is cooked as 
follows : the cutlet is boned, and the lean part 
larded through with strips of bacon. 

The bottom of a small stewpan is lined 
with a slice of bacoUj sliced carrot, onion, 
celery, and a bunch of herbs. The cutlet is 
laid upon these, and sufficient stock poured 
over to barely touch the meat; it is then 
covered with a greased paper, and stewed 
gently until the cutlet is quite tender. 

After lifting out, the gravy is strained, the 
vegetable crushed into a puree, thickened and 
browned, a glass of sherry is added, and a good 
pinch of cayenne, some ketchup and seasoning. 
This is poured round the cutlet, and served 
very hot. 

Sweetbreads are very nice, done exactly the 
same way ; always, of course, parboiling them 
first. 

An excellent and cheap way to recliauffer a 
very small remainder of cold meat is to mince 
it finely, add bread-crumbs and a little piquante 
sauce or gravy sufficient to moisten well. A 
small vegetable marrow is pared, and the in- 



FRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES. 131 



side emptied^ and then stuffed witli the above 
mince, a little fat poured over,, and then baked 
in the oven. A large turnip may be used in 
the same way when marrows are out of season. 



T 



CHAPTER XI. 

Some little use^ Degetables. 

HERE are some few vegetables having a 
very extensive use in continental house- 
holds, which are scarcely ever, if at all, used 
in England. Yet they are just as easy to culti- 
vate as any other, and have just as valuable 
hygienic properties. First among them we 
must place Sorrel. 

Except among the enlightened few who can 
boast a patch in their own garden, it is almost 
unknown, and, save at Covent Garden, is 
scarcely ever seen on the market. On the 
Continent it is cultivated in quantities ; no little 
cottage garden but has its sorrel-bed, and sum- 
mer or winter it appears on the table in various 
forms — as a soup, or a puree to eat with meat, 
or a sauce — and it is frequently mixed with 
its sister plant, the spinach, when making a 
vegetable dish. 

1?2 



SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES, 133 

Qaite lately, when seeking for some in London 
for use afc a demonstration, nothing less than a 
"strike" could be had, and from the Central 
Market only — at least ten times as much as the 
quantity required. 

The wild sorrel which one meets with in the 
country is not a bad substitute, but the flavour 
of the cultivated kind is so superior, every 
garden ought to possess a few plants. 

It is sown in drills like spinach ; but once 
established, will come up year after year with 
faithful regularit}^, and if cut down every few 
weeks will yield several cuttings during the 
season. 

It may also take rank as one of Nature's 
medicines, and help to lessen the doctor's bills, 
being an anti- scorbutic, simple and eff'ective, 
an excellent blood-purifier, especially in spring- 
time. 

Full directions for making sorrel sonp are to 
be found at the end of this chapter ; but here 
it may be well to mention that the only ingre- 
dients are sorrel and a couple of young onions, 
white bread, water, butter, and the \jolk of an 
<d^'g. The ^^^ corrects the acidity of the sor- 
rel, the bread gives substance to the soup, and 



134 SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 

the butter smootlmess. As very little liquid is 
needed in wlilcli to cook sorrel, it is better, 
when intending to make a puree to serve with 
meat, to use a little butter in place of water. 
When thoroughly cooked, the sorrel should be 
lightly beaten with a wooden spoon, well-sea- 
soned ; then it is ready to serve either in the 
middle of the dish or to hand round with it. 

A few leaves of sorrel, lightly chopped, 
give piquancy to a salad. A few leaves of 
sorrel may also be added to other vegetable 
soups, but never when there is any meat in the 
pot, as their acidity will tend to harden it. 

Leaving the sorrel, let us consider its sister, 
spinach. Although we have no fault to find 
either with the growth or the supply of spi- 
nach, still it is in only a few better-class 
houses that one ever meets with the dainty 
dishes of spinach which are its common forms 
of presentation on continental tables. 

It is of all green vegetables the most decep- 
tive, shrinking to but a fraction of its original 
bulk when cooked. 

It is also one of the dirtiest and grittiest 
of vegetables, and needs washing in several 
waters. Let it drain thoroughly, and pick 
out all stalky pieces. Our French friends go 



SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 135 

fartlier tlian tliis : tliey tliink it not too much 
trouble to shred each leaf. Staying once at a 
country hotel in France, we were much amused 
and interested to watch the old grandmother, as 
she sat in her chair, doing nothing else all day 
but prepare the vegetables for the table or the 
kitchen. Verily, Ave decided, it needed the 
patience of old age to prepare spinach as she 
did it ; but truly, when it came to table, it was 
as nearly perfect as could be. 

The leaves should be thrown into hoiling 
water, with plenty of salt in it — this keeps 
them a bright green colour. Boil fast for ten 
or fifteen minutes, then drain and press till 
firm and dry. In this state most English 
people consider spinach is quite done ; French 
cooks tliink differently. It is now ready to be 
manipulated in any form desired. 

For instance. Spinach en Groustades is a 
pretty way of serving it as a vegetable dish 
alone, or even as an entree. The croiistade is a 
thick slice of stale white bread, hollowed in the 
centre, and shaped like a dish with a rim. 
This is fried to a golden brown in clear fat (if 
a joint of meat were roasting it might be done 
in the dripping-tin). 

Melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, 



136 SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 

put- in tlie cooked spinacli^ add a little pepper, 
heat well through, beat lightly with a fork, 
then fill the croustades, and chop a little cooked 
beetroot to garnish the top. 

A puree of spinach with a garnish of poached 
eggs, or an q^^ boiled hard, then cut into strips, 
and a few strips of beetroot interspersed to 
give colour, is a great improvement to the vege- 
table plainly boiled. Some thin slices of ham 
frizzled and placed as a border round a puree 
of spinach, also makes a very nice dish. 

Excellent also is Spinach a la Crenie. After 
melting a small lump of butter in the stewpan, 
and putting in the spinach to simmer, stir in 
the beaten yolk of an egg, twopennyworth of 
cream, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Let it 
nearly boil, then pour into a rather deep dish, 
and place fingers of toasted bread round the 
edge. This is one of the daintiest dishes 
known. 

It has been mentioned before that French 
cooks often make a " fond '^ or foundation to a 
dish of meat with a puree of spinach or sorrel ; 
but it must be remembered that no cream or 
eggs should be used then, and less butter, sub- 
stituting the gravy from the meat instead. 



SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 137 

Among tlie lesser known vegetables we may 
also place watercress. 

It may sound paradoxical to say that no 
people consume watercress more largely tlian 
do Londoners^ and yet to call it a little known 
vegetable ; yet apart from eating it in its natu- 
ral state, its capabilities are almost unknown. 

Watercress Soup is undreamt of by many 
people, but it is simple and nourishing, and 
meets with the approbation of all who try it. 
As a salad, too, it is much appreciated, either 
alone or with lettuce, and as a sauce to accom- 
pany roast mutton it is frequently used in 
French houses. Chopped small and laid be- 
tween thin slices of bread and butter for sand- 
wiches, it is getting to be much favoured at the 
afternoon tea-table. 

Be it remembered, however, that although 
watercress is most valuable as a medicine, beingr 
a gentle stimulant, and strengthening to the 
nerves, yet from the nature of its growth it 
requires most careful cleansing, or we may 
imbibe more harmful properties than we gain 
good from eating it. 

The expressed juice of fresh watercress taken 
by a teaspoonful at a time, has been found in- 
valuable in cases of throat disease. The Ger- 



138 SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 

man pliysiciau, Haller, said tliat he liad seen 
patients in deep decline cured by Hying almost 
entirely on tliis plant. 

The best specimens are those with the 
bronzed leaves. During the winter and early 
spring is perhaps the best season for water- 
cress, but they are good and acceptable all the 
year round. 

Full directions for making the watercress 
soup will be found at the end of this chapter. 

Watercress sauce is made by stewing chopped 
watercress in butter for ten minutes^ then add- 
ing a pinch of salt, the same of pepper, the 
same also of mustard, and a spoonful of vin- 
egar. Beat till quite smooth with a wooden 
spoon, then add the gravy from the roasting 
joint. This is served in a sauce-tureen, and is 
a pleasant change from ordinary gravy. 

Almost all the dishes mentioned might come 
under the category of kitchen-physic, — for one 
of the first essentials in sickroom diet is to 
please the eye as well as the palate. 

Sorrel Soup {Potage a VOseille), 

Having carefully washed two large handfuls 
of sorrel, dry it, then chop it finely. Chop 
also a medium-sized spring onion. Melt an 



SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 139 

ounce of butter, stew tlie oniou and sorrel in 
this (in a covered stewpan) for about half an 
hour. Meanwhile, bring a quart of water to 
boiling point in the soup-pot, throw into it a 
slice of stale white bread cut into dice (no 
crust), and let it boil till the sorrel is ready. 
Add that next, then a teaspoonful of salt, half 
one of pepper, and the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Let all boil up once, then pour into the 
tureen. A pinch of dried herbs or just one 
grate of nutmeg may be added then. 

Watercress Soup. 

The foundation of this soup is best made 
from a puree of haricot beans. They should 
have been soaked overnight, then boiled for 
two or three hours, or until they will rub 
through a sieve. Chop the watercress, and 
cook it in butter with an onion also chopped, 
as the sorrel was done. Add enouo'h boilinsr 
water to the haricot puree to bring it down to 
the consistency of cream ; then stir in the 
watercress, etc., and any other green herb you 
may possess. Just before serving stir in a 
tablespoonful of cream, and salt and pepper to 
season it well. A pint of haricots should be 
sufficient for a quart of good soup. 



CHAPTER XII. 

%cc^5 ant) ©nlons. 

A LTHOUGH some attention has been paid 
-^^^ to the uses of leeks and onions in the pre- 
vious chapters, yet for their great medicinal 
and useful properties they merit more particular 
study. 

The wonderful faculty which onions possess 
of absorhlng disease germs ought to be written 
in letters of gold before the eyes of every 
householder. Merely hanging in a net they will 
purify an apartment,, and a string of onions sus- 
pended from the ceiling preserved the inmates 
of a whole cottage from being attacked by 
cholera, when the scourge was devastating the 
whole of the neighbourhood. 

Especially in cases of that fell disease diph- 
theria have they great power. A dish of raw 
onions sliced and set in the sick-room, will draw 
away the disease and give ease to the sufferer ; 

140 



LEEKS AND ONIONS. 141 



as their odour gives out they should be replaced 
by fresh ones. Poison of any kind will discolour 
an onion. If one be placed in a dish of mush- 
rooms about whose orthodoxy there is felt the 
slightest doubt_, the suspicion may be quickly 
removed or proved thereby, as the onion will 
turn black if they are unwholesome. 

They are a stimulant also, rousing and aid- 
ing digestion. 

Many persons who complain of onions being 
difficult of digestion would find the objection 
removed — or considerably lessened — if they 
were cooked thus : cooking them quickly at the 
first start, then drawing aside and covering well, 
allow them to simmer gently for some time ; 
this draws out the juice, which can be poured 
off. If treated thus, they will hardly disagree 
with the most fastidious. 

To confess to a liking for onions is — sad to 
say — considered vulgar, but our French friends 
are notable as proclaiming their weakness for 
both onions and garlic by the scent they carry 
about with them. 

Although certainly related to onions leeks are 
not the same, nor even similar. They are more 
prized in Wales and Scotland than in England, 
and are very highly esteemed in France, where 



142 LEEKS AND ONIONS, 



they are used as a vegetable alone^ and never 
upon any account are tliey omitted from the 
potagere. 

They have a direct action upon the liver, and 
in cases of liver complaints (very often also for 
rheumatism) they are ordered by the doctor, 
either in the form of a tea or tisane, or as a 
poultice. 

The ^^ tea '' made by boiling leeks in water 
may be made very much more palatable for an 
invalid if a teaspoonftd of Bovril or Liebig's 
Extract be dissolved in each cupful. A liberal 
seasoning of salt and pepper also helps both 
taste and tonic. 

For broth from beef or mutton it is better to 
tie the leeks together in bunches, and serve 
them thus among the other vegetables round 
the dish, — or, better still, if there be any quan- 
tity of them, to serve them separately in a vege- 
table dish, pouring white sauce over them ; they 
are both wholesome and delicious if treated 
thus. 

During the winter months they should be kept 
covered with fresh earth. 

A poultice of fresh-boiled leeks laid between 
flannel is a remedy which certainly comes under 
the category of kitchen physic. It is a remedy, 



LEEKS AND ONIONS. 143 

liowevei'j mucli trusted by continental doctors 
for any inflammation of the liver or kidneys^ 
and has the power of quickly bringing out 
copious perspiration. 

The mild flavour of leeks makes them much 
preferred in nearly all soups — they combine 
with other flavours, but will not overpower, as 
the onion too frequently does. 

Both leeks and onions make excellent soups ; 
if a little clear broth is at hand to use instead 
of water, of course the soup will be richer for 
it ; bread forms the thickening quality — a slice 
of white bread cut into dice and thrown into the 
boiling liquor a few minutes before serving it. 

There is a very simple soup known as ^' drunk- 
ard's broth/' made by boiling sliced onions in 
water, which is said to be very valuable and 
grateful to persons recovering from intoxica- 
tion. 

A pinch of mixed sweet herbs is a great 
addition to leek or onion soup. 

A large white onion, wdth the core removed 
and its place filled w^th a savoury stufiing, then 
placed in a covered stewpan with a little drip- 
ping, cooked in the oven for an hour, and a little 
thick brown gravy poured over it on the dish. 



144 LEEKS AND ONIONS, 

makes a very savoury and economical little 
'' plat ^' for a cold winter's evening. The stuff- 
ing may be made from any cold meat, minced, 
and mixed with sharp sauce. 

Large w^hite onions, boiled till tender, then 
drained, sliced thinly into a shallow tin, a few 
nobs of butter placed over them, a liberal pow- 
dering of pepper and salt, then some stale 
cheese shaved as thinly as possible, and a few 
bread-crumbs sprinkled over all, placed in a 
quick oven for ten minutes, makes another cheap 
savoury. 

A small onion may be introduced with advan- 
tage into many preparations of meat, fish, 
poultry, etc., where its presence is not needful 
nor perhaps desired, because it will help to 
bring out the flavour of the other condiments, 
and if sufficiently small, itself pass unnoticed. 

For sauces and fine dishes French cooks much 
prefer to use shallots, their flavour is more deli- 
cate. A clove of garlic, too, although a liking 
for its searching aroma certainly has to be ac- 
quired, is yet most suited for use in many made- 
up dishes. 

If the salad-bowl be rubbed all over inside 
with garlic, before breaking the lettuce or cress 



LEEKS AND ONIONS. 145 

into it, it not only obviates the necessity of 
using any onion in the dressing, but gives a 
piquant, elusive flavouring as difficult to ^' fix " 
as delicious to taste. 

Chives, too, belong to the onion family. They 
are worthy of much more popular use and culti- 
vation than they can boast at present : the root 
is bulbous, and grows up early in the spring, 
ready prepared for the " omelettes au fines 
herbes,'^ the soupe or salade '' printanier '' ; and 
for an addition to forcemeat or stuffing they are 
unrivalled. 

Thus we see that useful and valuable as onions 
are they cannot well do everything, as in this 
country they are unfortunately generally ex- 
pected to. 

In many greengrocers' shops, — large ones too 
— and on the costers' stalls in the street, leeks 
are a rarity, and always expensive ; shallots 
still rarer, garlic and chives unknown. Even in 
the country they are seen in but few gardens; 
and it is no uncommon thing to be asked what 
is their use. This is a state of affairs which 
needs remedying; we are conservative to our 
own loss, and, as a nation, remarkably slow to 
learn, or add to our knowledge. 

P.C. L 



CHAPTER XIII. 

tromatoes. 

FROM being one of the least known and 
most expensive vegetables^ tomatoes have 
become very common and plentiful^ bonght and 
eaten on the streets as freely as cherries or 
apples, and used in the kitchen almost as much 
as we can desire. 

Perhaps never better or more beneficial than 
when eaten raw, still, to be really nice thus, they 
ought to be freshly-gathered from the plant ; 
and few persons are able to do this. 

Next to eating them raw we may rank eating 
them ^^ marinees," or '^en salade,'' viz., slicing 
them in a dish, and dressing with salt and 
pepper, vinegar and oil. In Parisian restaurants 
they are served thus all the summer through, 
and ver}^ refreshing and acceptable they are. 
A small onion sliced with them is an agreeable 

146 



TOMATOES, i^-j 



addition. The}^ are even better than cucumbers 
if dressed in this manner and served with cold 
meats. 

A puree of tomatoes may be made exactly in 
the same way as the puree of sorrel or spinach, 
and. served with hot meat. With veal, poultry, 
sweetbreads, mutton cutlets, or pigeons halved, 
and done on the grill, a puree of tomatoes, 
highly seasoned and made fairly thick, is a great 
addition to the dish. 

The same puree is invaluable as an aid in 
using up the remains of cold meat. The latter 
may be merely sliced and laid in the puree to 
become hot through, or the slices may be 
lightly frizzled first. 

In winter the tinned tomatoes will answer the 
purpose excellently well, therefore it is well to 
have them in reserve : an un-appetising dish of 
cold meat may be quickly transformed into a 
delicious savoury by their aid at very short 
notice. An edging of well-boiled rice is a 
pretty finish to the dish. 

Plenty of seasoning — especially pepper — 
should be used with tomatoes, a pinch of cayenne 
is an advantage. 



148 TOMATOES. 



Tomato Soup 

is one o£ the most delicious and most easily 
prepared. For this, slice the tomatoes into a 
little melted butter in a deep stewpan ; let them 
cook gently at least half an hour, and meanwhile 
cut up a carrot into rounds an eighth of an 
inch in thickness, also slice an onion thinly, and 
frizzle these till tender through in a separate 
vessel. Next strain the tomatoes through a 
sieve to keep out skins and seeds, return the 
pulp to the stewpan, add boiling water to make 
sufficient quantity ; mix a dessert-spoonful of 
potato flour with a little cold water, and stir 
this in, then add salt, pepper, and pinch of cay- 
enne, according to taste ; let the soup boil up 
once, then stir in the carrots and onion. It 
may simmer gently for a time, or be served at 
once, as is required. A few fried croutons of 
bread should be put at the bottom of the tureen. 
This soup should be very hot and piquant. 

With the same puree of tomatoes before men- 
tioned as a foundation, we may, with little 
trouble, make a truly vegetarian dish, and one 
which is very pretty to look at. After making 
the puree smooth, thick, and savoury, pour it 



TOMATOES. 149 



into a fancy dish^ and keep liot while tlie '^snow- 
balls '' are made. Boil a pint of milk witli a 
pincli of salt ; beat to a stiff froth the whites 
of two eggs also with a pinch of salt_, then drop 
this snow by small spoonfuls into the boiling 
milk ; they will swell out, and take but a few 
moments to cook. Lift them carefully out, let 
all the milk drain from them, then set on the 
red puree, and put a sprig of green parsley in 
the centre of each. 

This is called " Snowballs in Tomatoes,'^ and 
is a very effective dish. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

are great favourites with many people. The 
tomatoes used in this way should be of a fair 
size. Remove the core and a small portion of 
the inside, then fill up with forcemeat, sausage- 
meat, or any nice mince well seasoned. Place 
them in a well buttered baking-tin, sprinkle a 
few bread raspings over the top of each, then 
bake for ten or fifteen minutes, but do not allow 
the tomatoes to fall. 

Tomatoes are very good if simply baked with 
a little butter, and salt and pepper, but if done 
au gratin they are better still. 



I50 TOMATOES. 



After buttering the bottom of the dish^ sprin- 
kle upon it a few bread-crumbs^ finely chopped 
parsley, and chives or shallot, then the tomatoes 
— the core removed — and cover with the same 
ingredients, having a few more bits of butter 
for the top of all. Bake for twenty minutes. 

Again, with a dish of cauliflower and maca- 
roni, if dressed in the usual manner, and a puree 
of tomatoes used in place of white sauce, the 
change would be found very acceptable. 

A sliced tomato is a great improvement to 
any salad, and the smaller ones should always 
be set on one side for decorative purposes. In 
a cool place they will keep for some time. 

For a cold dish, and a very refreshing one, a 
Tomaio Mayonnaise is excellent. 

If possible, skin the tomatoes, cut them in 
half, set them in a glass dish, and put on the ice 
or in a very cold place for half an hour. Make 
the mayonnaise with the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs and a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
beaten together to a cream, a pinch of salt 
and a teaspoonful of made mustard with a 
pinch of cayenne. Add by degrees a table- 
spoonful of olive oil. Spread a little of this 



TOMATOES. 151 



mayonnaise over each half tomato, let it cool 
still longer, and before bringing to table place 
tiny pieces of ice amongst them in the dish. 

A Conserve of Tomatoes 

to keep in small jars or pots is very useful for 
making savoury sandwiches for afternoon tea- 
parties. To three pounds of tomatoes allow one 
pound of loaf sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, 
a pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonful of salt, the 
peel and juice of two lemons. Boil the tomatoes 
first for twenty minutes^ then rub them through 
a sieve ; boil next the pulp with the other in- 
gredients for twenty minutes after they have 
come to boiling point. Take out the peel of the 
lemon, pour the mixture into jars, and cover 
tightly when quite cold. Keep in a cool, dry 
place. 

It is difficult to bottle orcrt/i tomatoes at home. 
For those who are able to procure the right 
sort of bottles — with good screw-tops — and who 
have a large quantity of tomatoes to use, it 
should be remembered that the secret of keep- 
ing well depends upon the care of the cook 
in having the bottles heated until they can 
scarcely be touched, the tomatoes hoiling hot 



152 TOMATOES. 



when they are put in^ and screwing down the 
tops at once, before any heat can have evapo- 
rated. The tomatoes should be brought to 
boiling-point in salted water_, and drained before 
they have time to break. 

Tomatoes form an excellent addition to an 
omelette. They should be cut into quarters, and 
slightly sprinkled with pepper, then frizzled in 
the butter before the eggs are added. 

The applications and uses of this valuable 
vegetable-fruit, and the combinations which a 
clever cook may produce by its aid, are very 
numerous, indeed well-nigh endless. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

/IDusbrooms* 

IlSr town mushrooms rank as do tomatoes 
amongst tlie additional luxuries of the 
table ; but in the country, where in their season 
they are to be had for the gathering, they form 
one of the poor man's few delicacies. Most 
people recognise only two distinct classes of 
them, viz., mushrooms and toadstools, and, 
through ignorance, many excellent varieties are 
passed by as unfit for food. The late Dr. Lan- 
kester, an eminent authority on foods of all 
kinds, enumerates no less than forty different 
species of mushrooms, all of which are good to 
eat. 

Chanterelles are much esteemed in France, 
while the delicate morel is there much more 
frequently met with than in England ; although 
if sought for at the beginning of summer it 

153 



154 MUSHROOMS. 



may sometimes be found in our orchards and 
woods. 

Another good authority on foods says : " Have 
nothing at all to do with them, until 3'ou are an 
excellent judge between the true and the false/' 
This advice resembles that of the mother who 
cautioned her son not to venture near the water 
until he had learned how to swim ! 

Although we can scarceljr be too cautious in 
our use of all fungi, still, as they are an excel- 
lent and delicious article of diet, when good; Ave 
need not be martyrs to our fears. 

A peeled white onion thrown into the pot 
while they are cooking will speedily confirm or 
dispel any fears which may be entertained about 
them, so also will a silver spoon, for if poison 
lurks within the vessel it will quickly turn the 
silver black. 

It is chiefly the people who live in the country, 
and have the good fortune to gather for them- 
selves, who have much need to exercise caution ; 
in town we are mostly supplied with mushrooms 
grown from spawn in mushroom houses or frames, 
and have little to fear. On the other hand, 
country people have full benefit of the flavour 



MUSHROOMS. 155 



and succulence of a freshly-gathered mushroom 
which it is difficult to surpass. The best mush- 
rooms are most plentiful in August and Septem- 
ber; they grow in open sunny fields after 
low-lying fogs or heavy dews. The upper 
surface is a dirty white, far comjjlcdsance pearl 
colour, and the under surface salmon or light- 
brown in colour. They should emit a faint 
wholesome smell. The Scripture says of the 
slothful man that '' he roasteth not what he took 
in hunting.'^ The same reproach may be ap- 
plied to those who neglect or despise the good 
gifts -which Providence places within their reach. 
A plentiful crop of mushrooms brings many 
additional pounds into the pockets of the in- 
habitants of some localities. 

For the benefit of those who have the good 
fortune to possess or meet with a plentiful supply 
a hint as to their preservation for winter use may 
prove acceptable. 

They must be taken, while perfectly fresh, 
and skinned, removing the stalk also, — then laid 
on thick white paper, not touching each other, 
and dried in a very slow oven. They should 
take several hours, and when quite dry should 
be threaded on a fine string and hung up in a 



IS6 MUSHROOMS. 



dry place. They will shrink considerably, but 
only require to be placed in cold gravy or 
liquor, then warmed up, to swell out to their 
original size. 

Mushrooms h la Proven gale is a way of treat- 
ing them which is very popular in the South of 
France. 

In a small, shallow frying- or saute-pan place 
sufficient salad-oil to cover the bottom to the depth 
of a quarter of an inch. Let the oil come to boil- 
ing point, then slice into it a small white onion, 
add a tablespoonful of finely minced and dry 
parsley. Next put in the mushrooms — small flat 
ones are preferable — the skin and stalk removed ; 
saute them for five minutes, then pour oS" about 
half the oil, dust flour over the mushrooms, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, add a dash of 
vinegar, toss them well about for a minute longer, 
then serve over fried croutons, or crisp thin 
toast. 

For mushrooms a la Poulette, pick out the 
small white or button ones. After removing 
peel and stalk, drop them into boiling salt and 
water, and cook till just tender through. Drain 
on a cloth, then place in a shallow dish and 
cover with the following sauce : an ounce of 
butter melted, and the same quantity of fine 



MUSHROOMS. 157 



dry flour mixed smoothly witli it, or half the 
quantity of potato flour^ a pinch of salt, and a 
tumblerful of boiling water; boil this well, then 
draw aside and stir in the yolk of an q^^ and 
two spoonfuls of cream. Pour this sauce over 
the mushrooms^ and garnish the dish with 
parsley. 

Mushrooms an Gratin are one of the most 
favoured entrees at grand banquets, — so 
favoured indeed that it is generally found neces- 
sary to provide twice the quantity of this dish 
in proportion to that of any other entree. 

They are prepared exactly in the following 
method. A gratin dish is covered at the bottom 
with an ounce of butter broken into bits, finely 
minced chives, chervil and parsley are sprinkled 
on to this, then a few bread-crumbs ; next the 
peeled mushrooms, stalks uppermost, the bread- 
crumbs and herbs sprinkled over, with half a 
teaspoonful of pepper, and a glassful of white 
wine poured over them, and more melted butter 
last of all. Baked in the oven for twenty 
minutes, then brought to table in the same 
dish. 

Large flap mushrooms are very delicious if 
steeped in a '' marinade '^ of salad oil, minced 



158 MUSHROOMS. 



lierbs and onion, then drained, sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, and grilled quickly over a clear 
fire, first on one side, then on the other, for 
three or four minutes. One of these, served on 
a piece of crisp toast, might tempt the appetite 
of the most fastidious. The deep cup-shaped 
ones filled with a force-meat stufiing, then baked 
in a dripping'-tin and served in pretty paper 
cases, make another nice entree. 

Mushroom Omelette 

is a delicac}^ which needs but to be tried to 
establish its reputation for ever. Whatever 
size or shape they be, the muskrooms must be 
peeled and cut into strips, then frizzled till 
tender in a little butter, dust them with flour 
to slightly thicken the juice, and sprinkle liber- 
ally with salt and pepper. Make the omelette 
in its own pan, according to the directions pre- 
viously given ; slide it on to a hot dish, cover 
half of it with the mushrooms, then fold over 
the other half, thus securing the brown side for 
the upper surface. 

For Mnsliroom Ketchup, than which there is no 
more useful ketchup for kitchen use, tlie follow- 



MUSHROOMS. 159 



ing is an excellent recipe. All broken mush- 
rooms^ parings and stalks (if clean), should be 
placed in a shallow earthen vessel and well 
covered with salt. Let them stand for three 
days, stirring occasionally. Then draw off the 
juice, and to every pint allow half a teaspoonf ul 
of ginger, the same of powdered mace, allspice, 
and cayenne. Put in a stone jar, set in a pan 
of water, boil hard for six hours^ pour into 
bottles when cool. 



CHAPTER XV. 

ffrutt ''cn Sala^e'^ ant) ''6lace/' 

A FRUIT Salad is most certainly an almost 
■^-^ unknown delicacy on Englisli tables. It is 
most frequently met with in Parisian and 
Viennese restaurants, where the most critical 
gourmets do congregate. 

Perhaps at its best when made with the wild 
wood-strawberries, plentiful enough in the 
woods about Paris, it is also exceedingly good 
made with the smaller kinds of cultivated 
strawberries, with raspberries, or raspberries 
and fine ripe currants, with sliced apricots and 
peaches, pineapples, and oranges. 

Next to a salad of wild strawberries, one of 
oranges, with a sprinkling of ground almonds, 
walnuts and grated cocoanut, must take the 
place of honour. 

The sine qua non of a successful salad is that 

160 



FRUIT "EN SALADE'' AND '' GLACE:' i6i 

its components sliould be dry before the dress- 
ing is added to them, whether the salad be 
composed of a vegetable or fruit. 

Next to dryness, we must insist upon perfect 
ripeness when fruit is in question. Hard or un- 
ripe morsels will spoil any dish. 

A crystal salad-bowl, or failing that, a deep 
compote dish, is best for the purpose. 

Pure white castor sugar, and wine suited to 
the kind of fruit used, forms the '^ dressing/^ 
This should be poured over the fruit at least an 
hour before it is brought to table. 

In the case of wild strawberries, plenty of 
sugar and a little good Claret is used, but for 
garden strawberries Port is preferable to Claret. 

With apricots, pineapple, or peaches, use a 
light sweet wine, like Sherry or Madeira; and 
for an orange salad a raisin wine (Muscatel) is 
best suited. 

For a pound of fruit allow four ounces of 
sugar, and half a pint of wine. Turn the fruit 
over occasionally after the dressing has been 
added, that it may absorb it thoroughly. 

Oranges should have all the peel removed, 
especially all the white part, divide them in 
their natural divisions and press the pips out, 

p.c M 



i62 FRUIT ''EN SALADE" AND ''GLACE:' 



Skill tlie walnuts and pound tliem^ the almonds 
likewise^ grate the cocoanut. 

A tablespoonful o£ lujucur, say Trundle or 
Kumrnel^ will be a7i improvement to ^nj fruit 
salad. 

Very ripe blackberries, witli a little less sugar, 
and Port wine or Roussillon, or instead a small 
tumblerful of Blackberry Cordial and a table- 
spoonful of Brandy^ makes a very v/liolesomo 
dessert disli. 

Fruit may be kept fresli for a lengtli of time 
by putting it into stone jars and covering with 
a mixture of honey and water. When required 
for use, take them out, wash in clean vv^ater^ and 
they will be almost as good as freshly-gathered. 

A very easy v»^ay of candying fresh fruit such 
as ripe currants in bunches, grapes, etc., is done 
by taking them by the stalk, dipping into a 
tumbler containing water and the white of an 
eg'g, then rolling them in fine castor sugar and 
laying on sheets of note paper to dry, either in 
the sun or in a cool oven. 

To cancly fruit properly, however, is a much 
more serious process. 



FRUIT "EN SALADE'' AND ''GLACE:' 163 

A syrup of boiling sugar, boiled to tlie fourtli 
or ^^ candied '' degree, that is for at least half 
an hour, is the first essential. 

Place the sugar, — finest loaf — in an enamelled 
saucepan ; to half a pound of sugar allow half 
a tumblerful of ^Yater. Boil until the syrup 
is so stiff it will crack if dra\vn out into 
threads. 

Supposing you are candying some quarters 
of oranges ; after taking out the pips, thread 
them on a fine string, and passing the string 
over a hook hold them in the boiling syrup for 
liolf a miiiute. Then suspend them to drain 
and dry. 

Greengages, apricots, cherries, etc., require 
to remain in the sja^up a little longer, that they 
may be cooked through, then they may be 
rolled in powdered sugar, and dried in a cool 
oven. 

Fine scarlet rhubarb cut in strips of two or 
three inches in length, dropped into this syrup 
for a few moments, then drained and "frosted,'^ 
makes a pretty sweetmeat. 

It is by no means impossible for the amateur 
cook to turn out a very pretty dish of glazed 
fruits for an extra occasion, if needs be, 
although as glace fruit can be bought so reason- 



i64 FRUIT ''EN SALADE" AND ''GLACE." 

ably now^ few amateurs care to attempt the 
process. 

" Marrons glaces/' tlie favourite sweetmeat 
of the few who are able to indulofe their likino-, 
are made in this wise {n.h. the same process is 
employed for " Gldnois glace.-^/' or Chinese green- 
gages, and for crystallized figs) : The chest- 
nuts are boiled in water until they are quite 
cooked, then carefully peeled and thrown into 
cold water to become hard again. In half an 
hour^s time they are placed in boiling syrup, the 
which has been boiled till quite stiff. The vessel 
containing them is then set on one side. The 
next day the syrup (and chestnuts) is brought 
to boiling point, then put aside to cool again. 
This process is repeated four days in succession; 
at the end of the time the chestnuts or fruit 
will be found to have absorbed nearly all the 
syrup, and must then be lifted out on to dishes, 
and dried off. 

The process of preserving fruit by evaporation 
is best performed by means of the mechanical 
" evaporators " when possible to obtain these 
machines ; still, by carefully drying in a cool 
oven (a brick oven is best for the purpose), much 
valuable fruit micrht be saved for winter use 



FRUIT ''EN SALADE'' AND '' GLACEP 165 

which is often left to rot on the trees because it 
will not pay for gathering and turning into 
preserve. 

Only sound fruit should be dried_, and it should 
be gathered on a dry day, laid out separately on 
sheets of paper or tins, and dried in the oven 
when the fire has become low. It will require 
soaking in water before using. 

A word of caution as to the kind of sugar 
which should be used with fruit, will not be out 
of place here. 

Beet sugars, because of the impossibility of 
ensuring their perfect dryness, however highly 
refined, should be avoided ; also because they 
absorb moisture easily and so cause fermentation. 
For all syrups, jams, jellies, etc., use only pure 
cane sugar; although slightly more expensive it 
well repays in the end. 

Boiling sugar quickly passes from one degree 
to another, and in preserving it is important to 
remember this fact and not add the sugar until 
the fruit has been first well cooked. 

It is the fruit that rer^uires coolcing, and not 
the sugar. 

It is a great improvement to jellies to first 



i66 FRUIT ''EN SALADE'' AND ''GLACE:' 

heat tlie sugar in sliallow vessels in the oven, 
before putting into the juice; it should be so 
hot the hand can scarcely touch it. Put into 
the juice when that has boiled for twenty 
minutes, boil up once more after the sugar is 
dissolved, then pour into hot jars at once. It 
will quicklj^ j^^^'^J^ ^^^^ be a better colour than if 
made after the old method, besides retaining 
bettor the flavour of the fruit. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

iBnUccQ ant) jEntreincts^ 

AVERY large variety of dishes may be classed 
under the above title, and it is in the pre- 
paration of these dishes almost more than in 
those of any other class that the really experi- 
enced cook will best exercise the true principle 
of cookery-economy. 

As a rule the entree is served before the 
joint; the eutremet follows it. 

No Parisian 'Mittle dinner '' would be con- 
sidered complete without one entree at least ; 
and although it may seem a strong statement 
to make, it is certainly true, that the materials 
out of: which many of the most tempting of 
these entrees are made are those v/hich in Eng- 
lish hotels and even in private houses would 
be throvvn to the dogs, or into the fowl-pen. 

It is important to strive as far as possible to 

1G7 



i68 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS, 

make entrees tlie means of utilising any remains 
whicli may be left. A nice variety can be made 
in tliis way only. 

Another important point to observe is the 
appearance of the entree. This class of dishes 
may be regarded as one of the higher branches 
of the profession^ and had better not be at- 
tempted by the apprentice. One very common 
mistake made by inexperienced cooks in serv- 
ing entrees is putting too much on one dish. 
'^Little and good'* is an excellent maxim to 
follow. 

It is very desirable to have certain things 
at hand in readiness when making entrees^ or 
indeed any other class of savoury dishes ; viz., 
aromatic spices^ dried herbs, and a little stock 
of sauces and seasonings. 

Once these are set up in the kitchen it is easy 
to keep them renewed, and they prove invaluable 
on many occasions, well repaying what little 
trouble their preparation entails. 

An excellent aromatic ]3reparation is made as 
follows: — take equal quantities, say half an 
ounce, of mace, nutmeg, cloves, marjoram, 
thyme, basil, and bay leaves, a whole ounce of 
peppercorns. Have all these thoroughly dried, 
and pounded, and sifted, and put in a glass- 



ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 169 

stoppered bottle for use. This will keep good 
for years. The preparation of herbs has been 
described in a previous chapter. 

It is not so much a question of expense in 
the preparation of entrees as of management. 

A good cook will never be embarrassed by 
having too much cold meat on hand while she 
has entrees to provide for. By a little skill she 
will be able to turn out the most charming 
dishes ; even a small piece of the loin of mutton 
may be served half a dozen different ways. 

One of the most commonly known of entree 
dishes is perhaps ^^ croquettes ^^ or '' krome- 
skies/' and yet how rarely are they nicely made 
and served. 

The secret^ or rather the principle, to be ob- 
served in making these is the same as in boiling 
or roasting meat ; viz., to form a crust on the 
outside to retain the moisture and juices within. 
It is generally admitted that these are far 
nicer when the inside is moist and juicy, instead 
of hard. A good way to ensure their being so 
is to moisten the mince with gravy made from 
bones, whicb will jelly when it is cold. 

The mince may then be made quite thin, and 
allowed to get quite cold before being shaped 
into little balls or cutlets, and then twice coated 



I70 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS, 

with egg and bread-crumbs^ and dropped into 
boiling fat. The croquettes are thns surrounded 
with a crust, and it' carefully lifted out the 
moment they are sufficiently cooked, the inside 
gravy will be preserved. 

It may almost bo taken as a criterion of the 
skill of the cook when as soon as the fork of 
the eater is inserted into the ball the inside 
gushes out, as it certainly requires some prac- 
tice to attain to tin's. 

Almost any kind of cold meat may be made 
into entrees, but cold remains of poultry, or 
calf's head, or game may be made to look 
very appetising if cut small, nicely shaped, and 
then each piece slightly floured and dipped 
into good batter, when they should be fried a 
beautiful golden colour. 

They will look like fritters, and should be 
lightly piled on a silver dish if possible, and 
garnished with parsley. 

Another way of using up these remains is to 
make a ^' salmi.'' To do this, the pieces of 
meat should be sliced thinly and all trimmings 
and bones be stewed to make sauce. The 
liquor, when they have cooked long enough, 
should be strained and slightly thickened, then 
liberally seasoned and a glass of good wine 



ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 171 



added to it; Madeira is the most suitable, 
thougli sherry will do. The pieces of meat 
have simply to be warmed up in this sauce. 

When making a ^Hiash ^' from cold meat 
it is always preferable to make the sauce or 
gravy first_, then add the minced meat, aud 
allow it to simmer only for a few minutes before 
serving. AV^hen made of fresh meat the hash 
will be found to be much richer and more 
tender if cooked in the oven slowl}^ 

A nice little dish of hash, with two or three 
delicately poached eggs laid upon it, and some 
slender strips of toasted bread round the edge, 
and a little finely chopped parsley sprinkled 
over all, will be found to make a very pretty 
and economical entremet. 

" Tomates farcis " is another economical 
entremet. Smooth, round tomatoes not over 
ripe should be chosen, and a small piece be 
cut out of the middle, and a little of the inside 
removed ; its place should be filled with a little 
forcemeat, or sausage meat alone w^ll do very 
nicely. Place the tomatoes in a tin with small 
bits oE butter, to bake gently until tender 
throu2ch. 

Nice kidney potatoes may be treated in the 



172 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS 

same way, and will be found very excellent 
also. 

Eggs "a la bonne femme " make another 
pretty entree. Take six large eggs, boil tliem 
ten minutes, when cool enough carefully re- 
move the shells, and with a sharp knife split 
them in half; remove the yolk from each half 
and the tip of the point, so that they may 
stand firmly. AYith the yolk mix a little finely 
minced ham and beetroot or boiled chicken, a 
little drop of some piquante sauce, and then 
fill up the hollows, piling the mixture a little 
higher. Place the eggs on a bed of curly let- 
tuce or parsley. 

Omelets and vol-au-vents are served as 
entree dishes. The latter, although properly 
belonging to the confectioner's profession, and 
generally considered to be quite beyond the 
skill of the home cook, may yet be fairly well 
imitated for any extra occasion. 

The exterior or crust is made of the very 
finest puff paste moulded into the required 
shape, and the interior hollow is preserved 
while the crust is cooking by filling it with soft 
bread ; the upper crust is laid OA^er the bread, 
but the edges are kept from sticking to the 
sides. 



ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 173 

When the crusfc is baked the bread is re- 
moved and the proper filling takes its place, 
then the upper crast is laid over and glazed 
Avith white of ^gg. This filling may be varied 
according to fancy — a financiere ragout, sweet- 
breads, oysters, lobsters, shrimps, etc. When 
fish is used, the top of the vol-au-vent should 
be ornamented with the same or similar small 
fish. 

Whatever is chosen for the filling should be 
cooked in a sauce, thick, rich, and suited to its 
individual character : oysters, shrimps, fillets 
of sole, etc., in thick white sauce with cream ; 
ragouts of meat, poultry, etc., in brown sauce. 
Button mushrooms are a great addition to the 
last-named. 

Sweet vol-au-vents, made of fruit cooked as 
for a compote or jam placed in the hollow and 
a whipped cream over the top, are very de- 
licious. 



The following short lists may be useful as a 
guide to what are really orthodox and reliable 
entrees. A few selected entremets are also ap- 
pended. 



171 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS 






Meat Entrees. 

Beof croquettes^ olives^ croustades. 
,, persillades_, miroton, curried. 
,, mincedj grilled and fricassee. 
Mutton cutlets a la sauce piquante. 
a la sauce souhise. 
ail jardiniere, grilled, q[c. 
Sheep's kidneys sautes, with muslirooms. 
„ tails a la sauce tomate. 
,, brains a la sauce jpouletic. 
„ feet^ stuffed_, fried^ etc. 
Lamb's head a la sauce poulcfte. 
,, cutlets aux fines hcrhes. 
Veal cutlet aux pet its pois, 
„ ,, fricassee. 

,, breast en hlanguette, Avitli capars. 
„ sweetbreads; fricassee, a la sauce tomate. 
Calf's liver, baked en f ricandean, fricassee. 
Calf's head a la poulette, etc. 
Pork cutlets a la sauce poiurade, grilled. 
,, ,, a la sauce souhise, tomate, etc. 

,, sausages, aux cJioux, a la purea, etc. 
Poultry, roast, fricassee, au hlanc. 
,, in aspic, in mayonnaise. 
,, a la jardiniere, curried, etc. 
,, with turnips, aux petlts pols, etc. 



ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 175 

Pigeons aiu cJioui'^ ciilg cliamp'Kjnoiis. 

liCKjout Jliianclere. 

Habbit au hlanc, an jamJjon. 

,, stewed, roast^ a la Tartars. 
Salmis of game : — snipe, partridges^ plieasant^, 
woodcock^ quails^ etc. 
Game pie, hunter's pie. 
Chartreuse of game. 

Fish Entrees. 

Salmon cutlets, mayonnaise, pickled. 

,, ,, with divers sauces. 

,, trout, boiled or baked. 
Soles au gratin, aux finen heibes. 
Filleted soles eii af^pic, an hlanc, fried, etc. 
Sole Normande. 

Cod, baked, au gratin, h la sauce hlanclic. 
Salt cod en hrandade. 

Mackerel a la maifre cVJiofel, grilled, etc. 
Herrings, grilled, pickled, etc. 
A\^hiting, fried, baked, au gratin au hlanc. 
Plaice, filleted, staffed, etc. 

Yol-aii-vent, with various fillings. 

Pet its 2> a t es chauds. 

Timbales. 



176 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 

Rissoles. Raised pies. 

Eggs au gratin^ h la sauce, aux ej:n)iard8 (with 
spinacli; sorrel, etc.). 

Entremets. 

Ham^ glazed or sliced. 
Tongues, glazed or pressed. 
GalantiJies of meat or poultry. 
Omelettes, aux fines lierhes, aux tomates. 

J, aux champignons, ognons, etc. 

„ au Sucre, au confiture, rhum, etc. 
Eggs en salade. 
Salads of all kinds. 
Mayonnaises. 
Macaroni, etc. 
Haricots ait hlanc, a la bonne fierame. 

„ flageolets au heurre. 

Petits pois. 

Cauliflower au gratin, au fromage, etc. 
Articliokes. Aubergines. 
Chicory, celer}^, cucumbers. 
Asparagus. Salsify. Sea kale. 
Mushrooms. Potatoes. 

Sweet Entremets. 

Q^afs a la neige. 

Creme renversee, Greme Samhayone. 



ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 177 

Charlotte russe. 

Sovfflees. Crepes. 

Beignets de Pommes, d'abricots, etc. 

Meringues. Compotes of all kinds. 

Jellies of all kinds. 

Fruit salads. 

Directions for preparing* almost all the dishes 
here named have been given in different 
chapters. 

With regard to the dishes made from remains 
(a decided feature amongst this class)_, sufficient 
have been indicated to enable the average cook 
to compile and arrange others for herself. 

When tails, feet, brains, etc.;, are intended to 
be used, care must be taken to have them 
thoroughly cleansed and par-boiled, before 
dressing them in the manner desired. 

Kidneys require light cooking when intending 
to serve them sautes; but if stewed or otherwise 
served they need longer time and gentle heat. 



P.O. N 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Zbc Bejeunei: a la ffoutcbette* 

THAT cleverest of Englislimen_, Macaulay^ 
must have had the ^^ Dejeuner a la Four- 
chette '' in his mind when he said that ^^ An 
invitation to breakfast was a proof that one was 
held to be good company; people were invited 
to dinner very often, but a man must be really 
liked when one asked him to breakfast.'^ 

This can scarcely be associated with the 
modern English breakfast, which, although an 
excellent meal in its way, is generally too early, 
too hurried, and too business-like to admit of 
the sociability which an invited guest would 
naturally expect; hence perhaps the more 
favourite invitation to lunch, common enough; 
sometimes delightful, sometimes not. 

It has been argued that people should never 
meet socially until dinner-time ; tempers are apt 

178 



THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. 179 

to be too miicli tried, or nerves too unsteady, 
until the work of the day is practically over. 
This may be a very safe rule for acquaintances 
and friends, allowing exceptions to be made 
occasionally, but in the family it is different. 

In most families there will be found at least 
one member Avho will shirk coming down until 
the very last moment, thereby endangering the 
certainty as well as the sanctity of the family 
breakfast; another perhaps is so far before- 
hand as to have gone from the house before 
others can fairly begin the meal. 

Our French '' pere de famille " so far recog- 
nises this fact that he does not attempt to 
struggle against the inevitable. Each member 
is at liberty to follow his own inclinations as 
early or late as he pleases, provided they will 
all assemble at ^' dejeuner,'^ when as a rule 
hunger will bring all the flock to the family 
table. 

In Parisian families and in the better class 
provincial households this is the first serious 
meal of the day. It is partaken of at midday, 
breakfast consisting of little more than a cup of 
coffee, frequently served to each member in his 
own chamber. This midday repast is generally 
the time for the family chat, when all meet to- 



i8o THE d/'Ijeuner a la fourchette. 

gether for the first time in the day, and have 
less restraint upon them than at the more formal 
dinner hour. 

It is quite a characteristic meal ; although 
similar to the Eii^^^lishman's lunch, yet it is not 
so raucli a make-up meal as the l.'itter, when it 
is thought lawful to serve up half-finished joints 
or tarts in their original form, with little or no 
attempt at disguise. No, the Frenchman looks 
for his little ^^ plats'' to be as daintily presented 
as at the more important dinner, and the 
"remains," if brought again before him, must 
be delicately " rechauffe." 

" Potage " is sometimes served at this hour, 
and a vegetable puree is mostly chosen, as the 
lighter potages and clear soups are preferable 
at the late dinner. Dishes of fish, ragouts, 
fricassees, omelettes, etc., are all eminently 
suited for the dejeuner. 

Both at the dejeuner and the dinner it is 
customary in France to have whfit are termed 
" appetisers," cither to commence with or to 
liand round during the meal, such for instance 
as olives, anchovies, oysters, pieces of Dutch 
herrings, sardines and radishes. 

The last-named are found exceedingly useful 
as a break between two rich-flavoured dishes. 



THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. i8i 

Sardines are perhaps the most esteemed com- 
mencement for a dejeuner, as oysters arc most 
liked as a preface to a good dinner. 

One very effective little appetiser, and admir- 
ably adapted to commence a dejeuner with, is 
made as follows : — Some small round pieces are 
cut from a stale loaf, then fried a light golden 
colour in hot fat, and allowed to cool. Some 
olives are then stewed, and a few anchovies 
neatly filleted ; these last-named are rolled up 
and slipped into the stoned olives. Next a drop 
of stiff mayonnaise sauce is placed upon the 
tiny round of fried bread, the olive is fixed 
upon this, and another drop of sauce crowns the 
whole, or a bit of bright aspic jelly. 

The mingled flavours of olive, anchovy, and 
sauce are delicious. Anchovy toast is also a 
very nice commencement to a dejeuner. 

We will now consider a few dishes suitable 
for a simple family dejeuner, and equally suited 
for the luncheon table of our English friends. 
Let us suppose that sardines have been first 
handed round, as they are available at all times 
of the year. Nothing but a good piece of bread 
is required with them. It need not be hinted 
that this is a very unsubstantial commencement 
to a meal ; remember it is only the appetiser. 



iS2 THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. 

We will now seriously begiu the meal with 
^' potage a la puree et au croutons." This is 
made by first boiling split peas and other vege- 
tables till thoroughly soft, then passing them 
through the tamis, and adding a sufficient 
quantity of stock or thin broth to make all of 
the consistency of cream. Season this well; 
let it heat again, and while it is doing so, some 
bread which has been cut into dice is fried in a 
little butter till brown, then put in the tureen, 
and the boiling puree poured over jast before 
serving. 

If we had chosen, this same potage might 
have been made of lentils, haricots, or potatoes, 
all done exactly the same way. 

We will presume the menagere has at hand 
some cold roast beef, from which she purposes 
to make " beef olives." She will first prepare 
a light forcemeat, bread-crumbs, suet, chopped 
parsley and herbs, an q^^^ to bind the whole, 
and pepper and salt ; a little fine sausage meat 
is also an improvement. 

The roast beef is sliced very thinly, the force- 
meat laid in small quantities on each slice, and 
these are then rolled lightly, fastened with a 
little skewer, and dipped into ^^^ and bread- 
crumbs, then fried in hot fat for a few minutes. 



THE DijEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE, 183 



After that tliey are laid in a brown sauce, well 
flavoured, to cook a few minutes longer. Just 
before serving a little wine is added to the sauce. 

These olives might also have been made of 
fresh beef, rump steak very thinly sliced, but in 
that case a little longer time to stew should be 
allowed. 

" Flageolets au beurre '' would be excellent 
either to follow this dish or to serve with it, ac- 
cording to taste. 

The flageolets, cooked in water until quite 
tender, are well drained, then tossed about in 
the saute pan with butter, seasoning, and a little 
chopped parsley added last of all. All the 
butter in the pan should be served with them. 
The same remark made in the case of the potage 
will apply here — viz., haricots, potatoes, etc., 
are equally adapted to be served in exactly the 
same way at a dejeuner. 

An ^^ omelette soufflee '' might now follow. 
This is made by whisking the whites and yolks 
of the eggs apart, allowing one for each person, 
adding powdered sugar in the proportion of a 
teaspoonful to each Q^^, and a little lemon juice 
to the beaten yolks; then beat in the snowy 
whites. 

A shallow baking tin is liberally buttered, 



1 84 THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. 

tlien lieated. The mixture is poured in and 
baked in a quick oven. It will rise very much, 
and when lightly browned on the top is suffici- 
ently done^ and must be served immediately. A 
little sifted sugar is a sufficient accompaniment. 

Cheese, or biscuits and jelly, generally form 
the closing portion of a dejeuner, sweet dishes 
being thought rather out of place, excepting as 
far as they occur in omelettes. 

A glass of liqueur is as invariably the final 
note as a cup of cafe noir, both here and at the 
dinner ; indeed the "mazagran^^ or clear black 
cofi"ee, served in a thick glass tumbler with 
lump sugar, seems never out of place at any 
hour of the day. 

Although resembling a dinner, in general 
outline, at least, it will be seen that a dejeuner 
is a far simpler affair. One dish of meat is 
considered quite sufficient, with a dish of vege- 
tables or salad to follow it. 

If a fish course is preferred, and it consists of 
a fairly substantial kind, as soles, or mackerel, 
or cod, then meat may be dispensed with al- 
together, or the potage may be omitted. 

Simplicity should be one of the characteristics 
of this repast, as elegance and simplicity may 
safely travel hand in hand. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

/IDenus for Small Dinners* 

THERE is one point in connection with tlie 
all-important meal of the day that, in 
small households at least, is frequently over- 
looked — viz., having a menu. It is sometimes 
thought to be ostentatious, but this is a great 
mistake, and certainly if there be a guest at 
the table it is a kindness as well as a duty on 
the part of the host to see that one is provided. 

Even at the private family table it will often 
be found of great service ; imagination plays an 
important part in the human organization, a 
good name going a long way towards bringing 
a dish into favour. So many devices are now 
obtainable at so trifling a cost that none need 
be excused on this account. 

A wise housewife will keep the menus which 

185 



1 86 MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS, 

have once served^ making particular note of 
tliose which gained the most favour ; they will 
be found of great service in helping her on 
future occasions. 

Too great care can scarcely be given to the 
appearance of the dinner table. An insufficient 
supply of bread, or the lack of minor comforts, 
such as mustard, well-filled salt- cellars, etc., or 
knives and forks irregularly placed, are quite 
enough in themselves to spoil the appetite of 
the moderately fastidious. 

Elaborate decorations either of fruit or 
flowers are only within the reach of the 
wealthy, but a few fresh flowers, or a little 
growing plant, may be procured by the most 
frugal family economist. 

Perhaps the prettiest decoration possible is the 
common field poppy and its attendant grasses, 
or the autumn bramble leaves, to be had for the 
gathering. Ivy or holly in winter may be kept 
fresh for weeks with care. 

Due regard should be had to the fact that we 
eat by the eye as well as by the palate, and by 
the sense of association as well as by reason. 
In fact, too great a regard for reason with 
many people would be thought sufficient to spoil 
the appetite ; they prefer to follow the example 



MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. 1S7 

of tliafc good old l)0)i vivcmt of anecdote fame 
who '^ate as lie pleased/' 

He had as many things as he liked, and ate 
of them as much as he could, then with a stiff 
tumbler of brandy and water he would go to 
sleep, and '' leave them to fight it out amongst 
themselves/' 

That sociability at table is an aid to digestion 
is an undisputed fact, and no one realizes this 
more than the typical Frenchman. 

Having a natural inclination to domesticity, he 
is much more alive to the amount of trouble in- 
volved in the preparation of a good dinner, and 
is, therefore, prepared to give due and discrim- 
inating appreciation to each course ; welcoming 
with a beaming eye his favourite '^ sauce '' or 
'^ civet,'' as the case may be, until at the last he 
is left in that delightful state of mind described 
as '^ the love of all mankind and toleration of 
the Chinese/' 

When giving an order for a dinner a little 
forethought should be used ; it will save an in- 
finity of trouble. 

It is possible to order a dinner, and a small 
one too, which implies so many saucepans in 
use that the fireplace could not hold them all ; 
or many dishes which can only be dressed at the 



1 88 MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. 

last momentj therefore all claiming the attention 
of the cook at the same time. 

Fried oysters^ croquettes, mutton cutlets, and 
an omelette, would sorely try the most capable 
cook were they ordered as four entrees together. 

Where the menagere is her own cook, she 
will be less likely to fall into this error; still, a 
little thinking beforehand may save even her a 
good many steps, and considerable anxiety at 
the crucial time of serving up. Many things, 
particularly entree dishes, may be cooked hours 
before, and then only require to be warmed up. 

We will suppose that a family of six to eight 
persons has to be catered for, and the housewife 
has to depend largely upon her own two hands 
for most of the actual work of cooking, and that 
soup, fish, one entree, joint, and sweets is to be 
the menu. 

The entree should generally (if economy has 
to be studied) be made of the remains of the 
previous day's joint, if that is sufficiently re- 
duced in size, or something simple, such as 
omelettes or a vegetable dish. 

Whether an entree is an expense or no 
largely depends upon the ingenuity of the cook ; 
if the joint is hot and fresh, an entree preceding 
it will serve as a damper, and save it from a too 



MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. 189 

liberal consumption; if it be cold^ then the 
same entree will make it all the more palatable. 

In sauces, either for fish or meat, one expense 
or provision may be made to serve two pur- 
poses. For instance, if we have ^' Sole a la 
Normande," and rump steak with oyster sauce ; 
half a dozen oysters will serve for both, while 
the melted butter may be all made at once, and 
divided afterwards ; the same wine also, and the 
same seasoning, etc. 

If a disli of vegetables is required, and the 
soup is a clear stock or bouillon, these vege- 
tables will cook quite as well in the soup, and 
increase its flavour; always, of course, except- 
ing such vegetables as cabbage or spinach, 
which should boil in clear water by themselves ; 
cauliflowers do not give a disagreeable flavour 
by any means, but their whiteness could not be 
kept if boiled in stock, therefore they also should 
be cooked alone. 

Where the first part of the dinner claims 
much attention and watching^, the sweet dishes 
should be such as can be prepared in advance ; 
then, if the reverse be the case, the meat cold, 
and the fish of a simple kind, a little more 
elaboration may be given to this course. 

As a rule, two fried dishes or two boiled ones 



I90 MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. 

should not appear in the same menu ; of course, 
there are occasions when it is necessary to make 
exceptions, but it will be found too great a tax 
upon one pair of hands. 

The following menus may be found sugges- 
tive. Recipes are not given here, as they will 
mostly be found under their respective headings, 
or at the close of the book : — 



No. 1. 

Julienne soup. 

Sole au gratin. 

Eoast loin of mutton with turnips and sauce 

blanche cm jpersiL 

Omelettes au rhum. 

Fruit tartlets. 



No. 2. 

Bouillon. 

Boiled beef, with a " plat de carrottes.^' 

Braised chicken and salad. 

Potatoes sautes. 

Apple fritters. 

Cheese, with croutons. 



MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. 191 



No. 3. 

Potage ail tomates. 

Boiled cod, sauce maitre d'hotel. 

Fricandeau of veal. 

Spinacli with eggs. 

Eice mould and 

Compote of fruit. 



No. 4. 



Potage au lait. 
Croquettes,, tomato sauce. 

Roast beef. 

Peas or haricots au beurre. 

Soufflee puddiug, with 

Chocolate or jelly sauce. 



No. 5. 

Bisque of crab. 

Lobster cutlets. 

Braised leg of mutton. 

Cauliflower a la sauce blanche. 

Lemon meringue pudding. 



192 MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS, 

No. 6. 

Yermicelli soup. 

Kagout of mutton. 

Cold roast beef. 

Potatoes a la creme and 

Vegetable salad. 

Gateau de riz. 

"Hors-d'oeuvre/^ consisting of oysters^ olives, 
radishes, cbeese, and butter_, may be placed 
upon tbe table or handed round. If liked, 
potatoes may accompany botli fisli and all meat 
dishes. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Cboice Supper 2)isbe5» 

WITH families wlio breakfast at an early 
hour, and dine in the middle of the day^ 
the need of a fairly substantial meal at supper 
time is a felt want. And whether the supper 
dish be a hot or a cold one, it is of first im- 
portance that it should be a savonry one, as it 
is frequently a wearied mind as well as a tired 
body which asks to be refreshed at this hour. 

Many of the dishes described in the previous 
chapters are eminently suited for supper dishes; 
particulary those classed under the head of 
^'Fricassees and Rechauffes,^^ and for an ap- 
petising way of serving meat cold see the 
chapter on '' Salads.^' 

Kidneys make a very recherche dish for the 
supper table, either served alone or with a little 
meat. They are by no means indigestible if 

P.O. ^^^ o 



194 CHOICE SUPPER DISHES. 

properly cooked. Kidneys saute are delicious. 
Slice some kidneys about a quarter of an incb. 
thick^ dip each piece into flour, and drop into 
a tin containing a little liot fat , cut some mce 
bacon into tbin strips and frizzle at tbe sam6 
time. 

Tbe kidneys sbould be turned about in tbe 
bot fat and only given four or five minutes 
cooking; pour off all superfluous fat, sprinkle 
witb pepper and salt, add a tablespoonful of 
ketcbup or tomato sauce, tbe same of boiling 
water, stir together and pour over a slice of 
bot toast. Serve immediately. 

If a veal kidney is to be bad, it is very nice 
served as ^^ kidney fritters.^' It sbould be pre- 
viously cooked, tben minced finely. A batter 
made witb eggs, milk and flour, according to 
tbe amount of tbe kidney, chopped chives, 
parsley and mushrooms (if available), seasoning 
and a little spice. Beat well together, then 
melt a small lump of butter in the saute pan, 
pour in the mixture, allow it to set firmly, then 
slide it on to a hot dish and set in a very bot 
oven for a moment to brown tbe top. 

The fat part of the kidney should be used as 
well as the lean, or else a little fat pork with it. 

Meat and game pies of all descriptions are 



CHOICE SUPPER DISHES. 195 

very desirable supper dishes. French pie crusty 
whether for eating hot or cold, is made as 
follows : — Into a pound of flour, half a pound 
of butter is lightly rubbed and a teaspoonful 
of salt ; this is made into a smooth paste with 
two eggs beaten and a small quantity of water. 
The paste should be lightly rolled out two or 
three times, then baked as soon as possible. 

A very fair imitation of game pie may be 
made with but little expense if care be given 
to the preparation of the following forcemeat. 

Half a pound of calf's liver and the same 
quantity of fat bacon should be fried till cooked 
through, then chopped small and pounded 
finely in a mortar. When thoroughly reduced, 
add a good teaspoonful of mixed savoury herbs, 
half one of black pepper, mustard and mace, 
and a little salt and a few bread-crumbs ; mix 
smoothly with two yolks of eggs. Line the 
bottom crust of the pie with slices of fat bacon, 
then a good layer of forcemeat, and fill up with 
joints of fowls or ducks, rabbits, or anything 
most available at the time. It is not at all 
necessary that it should be game. If all bones 
which it is possible to remove are taken out, 
the pie will be so much the better. 

Fill up all spaces with forcemeat, lay a little 



196 CHOICE SUPPER DISHES. 

more bacon at the top, then put on the top 
crust, brush over with beaten egg and bake. 
A little strong gravy well seasoned and a little 
dissolved gelatine added to it should be poured 
in when it is baked, through a small hole at 
the top. This pie may be eaten hot, but it is 
better cold. 

Yeal with a little sausage meat, or rump 
steak with mushrooms, or kidneys, and rabbits 
jointed, are all excellent ^^ fillings ^^ for pies. 
These pies require careful and thorough baking. 

A very savoury hot dish is a Pate of Macaroni. 
For this half a dozen lengths of macaroni 
should be broken into small pieces and gently 
simmered in a pint of boiling water in which an 
onion and a little salt has boiled. Drain well, 
in about twenty minutes' time. Place a layer of 
macaroni at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish, 
sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese over and a 
few bits of butter; then cover with pieces of 
beefsteak which has been previously stewed 
tender, the gravy thickened and browned and 
highly seasoned. 

Fricasseed chicken, veal cut small, or sweet- 
breads cut into dice, may take the place of beef, 
but should all have been previously stewed in 
good gravy. Another layer of macaroni and a 



CHOICE SUPPER DISHES. 197 

covering of cheese should form a crust at the 
top ; then bake this pate for about ten minutes 
in the oven. Serve at once. 

Sweetbreads^ either fried in eggs and bread- 
crumbs, fricasseed, or stewed in a brown sauce, 
are excellent at supper time, and are very 
suitable for persons of weak digestion. They 
should always be parboiled in salt and water, 
then thrown into cold water before being 
further dressed. 

Boiled fish is scarcely a dish for the supper- 
table, but small fish broiled over the fire with 
sauce, or '^ au gratin,'^ or even fried, are all 
acceptable. Pork meat and sausages should be 
avoided at this hour by the wise and prudent. 

Eggs are thought to be indigestible at night 
by many people, but if cooked with care they 
need not be feared. 

If done a la Maitre d' Hotel they are very 
savoury. A Spanish onion should be sliced 
thinly, frizzled slightly in butter, a little flour 
added, some hot milk, seasoning and chopped 
parsley; let this thicken. Take some eggs 
and lightly poach them ; then lay on toast, and 
pour this sauce over them. 

Eggs may be fricasseed by first boiling them 
hard ; then cutting them into slices and tossing 



igS CHOICE SUPPER DISHES. 

tliein in tlie saute pan with butter, parsley, 
seasoning, etc., and adding a little cream, or, 
if preferred, a little gravy. Amongst Frencli 
people omelettes are much favoured as a supper 
dish. 

Cheese has rather a bad reputation with 
many people. If they would take the trouble 
to grate it and ^' sandwich '^ it between bread 
and butter, they would find it as harmless as 
it is tasty, and the recommendation given in 
Chap. IX. is worthy of attention. 

^' Cheese fondue '' is a capital way of using 
up stale crusts of cheese, besides being another 
hot and savoury dish. — See Chap. IX. 

Cheese and cauliflowers, cheese and macaroni, 
cheese pates and cheese straws, are all much- 
liked dishes at the supper table. 

Where pastry is objected to, its place may 
be substituted by a light mixture of eggs, flour, 
butter, with a pinch of baking powder j the 
former ingredients in the proportion of a spoon- 
ful of flour and half one of butter to each Qgg, 
and a spoonful of milk. This may be baked in 
small buttered cups, or it may be poured on 
to two buttered plates and baked, jam or jelly 
being spread upon one while the other forms a 
cover, or it may be baked in one tin as a flat 



CHOICE SUPPER DISHES. 199 

sheet; then spread with jam or marmalade^ and 
rolled up as for a Genoese roll. 

Sponge biscuits spread with jelly, placed in 
a glass dish, and a sweet custard or o.^^ cream 
poured over, makes a very nice cold sweet dish. 



CHAPTER XX. 

Some strictly French recipes not included in 
former chapters. 

Potag'e aux Marrons. {Chestnut soup.) 

After having boiled the chestnuts^ peel them 
carefully and pound them in a mortar. Pass 
them through a sieve^ adding a little bouillon 
or clear stock from time to time. When reduced 
to a puree add more stock to make the quantity 
of soup required ; add salt^ cayenne pepper^ and 
mace to flavour it pleasantly. Boil it up again^ 
then if a white soup is desired^ add a teaspoonful 
of boiling cream ; if a brown soup be preferred, 
add a little good gravy and a spoonful of brown 
thickening. Pour over a little fried bread in 
the tureen. 

200 



ADDENDUM. 201 



Potag'e au Potiron. {PumpMn soup.) 

Take a quarter of a pumpkin, if very large a 
thick slice will be sufficient, pare it, take out 
the seeds. Then boil in water till quite soft, 
drain all water away and add a lump of butter 
the size of an egg, a little salt, then mash well 
together. Add a pint of boiling milk and a few 
lumps of sugar, stir well, and when cooled a 
little stir in a beaten yolk of egg. Pour over a 
slice of white bread, cut into dice and serve. 

Pot age Printaniep. (Spring soup.) 

Take a pint of fresh shelled peas, a shred 
lettuce, cress, parsley, a sprig of mint, a few 
leaves of sorrel, a few fresh onions, and cook 
them till tender in a little fresh butter. Press 
through a colander and add clear stock, let it 
boil again, then allow to cool, after which add 
the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Season it 
well before serving. 

Potag'e aux Poireaux. {Leeh soup.) 

This may be made with either stock or water. 

A dozen leeks should be sliced thinly, then 

frizzled in butter till of a nice brown colour, 

when a slice of bread should be added to them. 



202 ADDENDUM 



Pepper and salt liberally. Let tliis cook slowly 
for a little time, then add boiling water or stock 
to make a sufficient quantity. If liked milk 
may be used instead. 

Potage a la Creey. [Suferior carrot soup.) 

Slice and ckop small the best part of tkree or 
four large carrots, put tliem into a stewpan with 
two ounces of butter, add a sliced onion, a 
turnip, some pepper and salt, a slice of lean 
bacon, also cut very small. Let them cook for 
half an hour, shaking the pan occasionally to 
keep from burning. Pour over two pints of 
stock or water, let them boil for two hours 
longer. Strain and press the vegetables through 
a sieve. Thicken with a tablespoonful of tapi- 
oca, return to the pan and boil a few minutes 
longer. Serve with toasted strips of bread. 

Boubillasse. {A Provengal potage.) 

Take any kind of fish, but whiting or cod and 
dory are preferable. Put the fish into a stewpan 
to boil gently. In a frying-pan place a sliced 
onion, a clove of garlic, chopped parsley, chopped 
lemon rind, salt and pepper, spice, and a little 
oil. When sufficiently fried add the fish, which 



ADDENDUM. 203 



should be boned, skinned and cut into quarters. 
Stir well together, add two pints of boiling 
water and a bit of butter mixed with sufficient 
flour to thicken the whole. Let it boil gently 
for a quarter of an hour, then serve. If mack- 
erel, sardines, or other rich kinds of fish are 
used, make them brown by frying, add clear 
stock and a little brown thickening. 

Boeuf a la Mode. 

A piece of the round of beef is best for this 
dish, as there is no bone in it. Lard it with long 
strips of salted pork inserted in a larding needle. 
At the bottom of an earthenware stewpot or the 
^' braisiere " put first a glassful of white wine, 
then several small onions left whole, carrots cut 
in slices, a few more bits of salt pork, a " bou- 
quet garni,'^ some peppercorns and a little salt. 
Place the meat upon these, cover over tightly 
and put the vessel to cook over the charcoal 
stove or in the far corner of the oven. Let it 
stew gently for five or six hours. Serve with 
the vegetables. If the beef is intended to be 
eaten cold a calf's foot or small piece of knuckle 
of veal should be cooked with it. When the 
meat has cooked sufficiently, take it out, take 
away the vegetables, and add a beaten white of 



204 ADDENDUM. 



Q^^^ to clarify the gravy ; let this boil for a 
moment, then strain over the beef ; it will jelly 
when cold. 

Lang-ue de Boeuf a la Persillade. 

Allow a tongue to boil in salted water until 
tender ; then strip it of the skin and cut it 
open lengthways down the middle ; lay it flat 
upon a dish. Pour over it a sauce made of 
butter melted, a wineglassful of vinegar, a good 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt. 

Langue de Boeuf en Hoehe Pot. 

Partly boil the tongue in salted water, skin 
it, cut into short thick pieces. Put into a stew- 
pan with a few pieces of fat bacon all sorts of 
vegetables cut into convenient lengths, a bouquet 
of herbs, seasoning and a glass of white v/ine. 
Cover well and cook gently for two or three 
hours ; arrange all neatly on a hot dish, strain 
the gravy, and pour over all. 

BCBuf au Four. {To he eaten cold.) 

Mince finely a slice of lean beef, then add a 
small quantity of beef fat, also finely minced. 



ADDENDUM. 205 



the same of lean ham, some parsley, mushrooms 
(fresh or tinned ones), shallots, and savoury 
herbs, all finely minced also. Line a mould with 
a few slices of nice bacon, cut small. Add to 
the mince four yolks of eggs, to bind it well 
together, then put into the mould and bake 
gently two or three hours. The mould should 
be carefully covered over with a paste made of 
flour and water. When sujB&ciently cooked re- 
move this crust and pour a little melted butter 
over the top of the meat. Set aside till cold. 
This is a nice dish for the supper table. 

Queue de Bceuf en Hoche Pot. 

The ox tail is jointed, then parboiled and 
cooked afterwards in the stewpan in exactly the 
same manner as the " Langue de boeuf en hoche 
pot.'' 

Queue de Boeuf a la Matelote. 

Cut the ox tail at each joint, stew gently in 
the oven with water till quite tender. Make a 
little brown roux with butter and flour, and mix 
a little of the liquor from the stewpan with it. 
Place the joints of ox tail in this and a few 
small onions previously boiled in water; add a 



2o6 ADDENDUM. 



glass of wine; a buncli of sweet herbs, a clove, 
peppercorns, and a spoonful of salt. Cook 
slowly another hour, take out the pieces of tail, 
put them on a dish, and arrange the onions 
round them; strain the sauce, and add a spoon- 
ful of capers or anchovy sauce. Pour over all 
and garnish with strips of fried bread. 

Carre de Mouton aux Concombres. 

Take a square piece of mutton (a flank cut 
will do), trim it neatly, prick it with fat all 
over, then roast it. While it is roasting prepare 
two or three small cucumbers, which have been 
pared and steeped in vinegar. Cut them into 
dice, put a little butter into a stewpan, and a 
slice of ham ; add the cucumbers, and stir 
them about till they begin to brown, then stir 
in a pinch of flour with seasoning, a little clear 
stock. Let thenj cook a little longer till slightly 
thick ; then pour on the dish and place the 
roast mutton over. 

Carre de Mouton a la Ravigote. 

A piece of the breast is best for this. Cut it 
into small portions, saute them in a little clear fat 
for a few minutes, add a spoonful of flour and 
a cupful of stock ; add seasoning and garlic, if 



ADDENDUM. 207 



liked ; if not, a few shallots. Let it simmer for 
an hour. Then remove all fat ; take away part 
of the sauce, to which add two yolks of eggs 
and a lettuce, a handful of cress, tarragon 
leaves and parsley, mint and thyme, all of which 
have been boiled a few minutes in water and 
then chopped finely. Stir all this over the fire 
till it thickens, then arrange the meat on a hot 
dish, and pour the sauce over it. 

Filet de Mouton a la Maitre d'Hdtel. 

The loin of mutton should have the bones 
removed for this dish. Lay the piece flat, then 
place upon it a mixture of minced parsley, 
herbs, shallots, and a few bread-crumbs ; then 
roll up carefully and fasten securely with small 
skewers. Place in a baking-tin, with a liberal 
supply of fat. Let it cook briskly for an hour 
or more, according to size. Then pour off all 
fat, add a cupful of stock, a dash of vinegar, a 
spoonful of dried parsley, pepper, and salt, and 
a little flour to thicken it. Allow this to boil 
well, then pour over the roll and serve. 

Epaule de Mouton a la Turque. 

Boil a shoulder of mutton in a little bouillon 
or broth with a bunch of savoury herbs, a bit of 



2o8 ADDENDUM. 



garlic^ a clove, a laurel leaf, basil, two onions, 
thyme, and a few root vegetables, till just done, 
allowing a quarter of an bour to a pound weiglit 
of meat. A little wbile before serving take a 
small quantity of tbis bouillon, remove all fat, 
and put in it a quarter-pound of well-wasbed 
rice to cook till soft. Put the shoulder of 
mutton on to a disb, make a few incisions in 
it to receive tbe rice, cover tbe whole completely 
with rice, and over that grate some stale cheese. 
Hold a salamander over it to brown the surface, 
and serve with clear brown sauce. 



Haricot de Mouton. 

Cut up two pounds of breast of mutton or the 
blade part of the shoulder ; fry the pieces in 
clear hot fat after first dipping each piece in flour, 
then drain them when of a nice brown colour ; 
after which cut up some turnips into finger 
lengths, brown them also in the fat. Then 
make some clear brown sauce and place the 
pieces of mutton in it to stew with a bouquet 
garni, two or three whole onions ; then add the 
turnips. When cooked (in about half an hour) 
remove the fat. Serve on a hot dish and cover 
over with the turnips and sauce. 



ADDENDUM. 209 

Gigot de Mouton Farci. 

Bone a leg of mutton and in tlie place of the 
bone put the following stuffing : lean ham^ a 
little salt porkj mushrooms_, and cucumbers, 
minced together^ seasoned with salt, mixed 
spices and savoury herbs mixed firmly together 
with an ^^^. Fill up all spaces in the leg with 
this, tie together with string to keep in place, 
then put into a covered stewpan with a cupful 
of broth and one of wine, an onion, a carrot, 
and a parsnip. Let it cook slowly for two or 
three hours, strain the gravy, remove all fat, 
thicken very slightly and serve with the mutton. 
Or if to be eaten cold, make a glaze of the 
gravy, and pour carefully over the leg when 
nearly cold. 

Blanquette de Veau. 

This is made of the remains of roast fillet of 
veal. Cut the meat into small equal-sized 
pieces. Take two teacupfuls of veloute or 
white thickened sauce, add the yolks of two or 
three eggs, a small lump of butter, and a pinch 
of chopped parsley, with the juice of a lemon 
and a little seasoning. Let the meat thoroughly 
heat through in this sauce, then serve at once. 

P.O. p 



2IO ADDENDUM. 



If made witli fresli meat, it should have been 
cooked througli in a little first. Blanquettes of 
lambj poultry, etc., are all made the same way. 
Add tinned mushrooms if available. 

Foie de Veau k I'ltalienne. 

Cut the liver into small slices and place in a 
covered stewpan in the following order ; a layer 
of liver, each piece having been dipped into 
flour, then a liberal sprinkling of the following 
mixture : — salt, pepper, olive oil, minced fine 
herbs, mushrooms, garlic or shallots. Continue 
to alternate with layers of the liver and this 
mixture till all the liver is used. Let it cook 
slowly for an hour or two. Remove the meat, 
add a spoonful of vinegar and a little brown 
thickening to the sauce, a glass of wine, and 
serve very hot over the liver. 

Foie de Veau a la Bourgeoise. 

Keep the liver in one piece, but lard it thickly 
with fat bacon, cover with flour and place in a 
stewpan with a little fat, herbs, seasoning and 
a few shallots. Let it cook three hours. A 
glass of red wine and a yolk of q^^ are added 
to the gravy before serving. Or a cupful of 
stock may be substituted for the latter, and a 



ADDENDUM. 211 



little more flour added if not tliick enough. 
The liver should be served in thin slices. It is 
an excellent way of cooking this portion of the 
animal. 

Jambon a la Broche. 

Take a ham which has been salted and dried, 
but not smoked, or a leg of fresh pork may be 
used instead. Let the ham steep for twenty 
hours in white wine in which an onion and a 
bunch of parsley are also steeping. Then lift 
it out and set to roast before a clear fire, basting 
with this liquor. Before it is quite cooked 
through remove the rind, then allow it to brown ; 
meanwhile in a saucepan prepare a glaze from 
stock made from bones and remains of meat, 
clarify and thicken this to form a stiff transpa- 
rent glaze, and pour over the ham. Serve either 
hot or cold. 

Jambon a la Braise. 

Hams cooked in the braisiere are very supe- 
rior to boiled hams. A few vegetables may be 
placed in the pot, if liked, and half a bottle of 
wine may be added, but this is quite optional. 
A leg of fresh pork will be very much improved 
if done this way, but a liberal seasoning and 



212 ADDENDUM. 



powdering of jflour should be given from time 
to time. Allow several hours to cook, and if 
not brown enough remove the cover and set the 
leg to finish before the fire. 

Cotelettes de Pore en Ragout. 

The pork cutlets having been previously partly 
cooked in a stewpan, drain them and brown in 
butter; add to them a sweetbread cut small, 
some tinned mushrooms and giblets of poultry, 
if any are available. Add a little flour, salt, 
pepper, a bunch of parsley and herbs, minced 
onion, and a cupful of liquor from the stewpan, 
and let them simmer gently for half an hour. 
Cutlets are very nice served over a puree of 
lentils or peas. For this they should be cooked 
as above, omitting the ingredients of the sauce, 
as the latter is not required with a puree. 

Lapin au Gite. 

After having skinned, cleaned and paunched 
the rabbit, make a stuffing, using the liver and 
kidneys, chopping them finely with a few mush- 
rooms, parsley, chives, bread-crumbs and an Qg^ 
beaten well, and salt and pepper. Fill the body 
of the rabbit, sew together again, truss the 



ADDENDUM. 213 



legs and shoulders witli tlie lielp of wooden 
skewers. Lay in a stewpan^ pour over a glass 
of red wine, a cupful of stock, dust it with flour, 
add a few small onions, a slice or two of fat 
bacon, and let it cook a couple of hours. 
Thicken and brown the gravy before pouring 
over the rabbit. 

Lapin en Assiette. 

Cut up the rabbit into small joints, partly cook 
them in a covered vessel with a little stock well 
seasoned, then lift out the pieces, roll them in 
Q^^ and bread-crumbs, then in a little melted 
butter, and either grill them or fry carefully 
with a little fat. Serve them without gravy 
accompanied by a salad. 

Filets de Lapin en Salade. 

The remains of a rabbit either roasted or 
baked are used for this dish. Cut into small 
thick pieces. Cut up a] so two or three ancho- 
vies, small onions previously boiled, whole 
capers, a small quantity of bread cut into 
^'fing-ers'^ and fried brown. Dress the whole 
as a salad. 



214 ADDENDUM. 



Lapin Saute a la Minute. 

Cut a rabbit into small pieces, wash and wipe 
dry. Brown each piece in the saute pan with 
butter, aromatic herbs (ground), pepper, salt and 
mace; add finely chopped parsley and shallots. 
Draw aside from the fire, cover over and allow 
to simmer for a few minutes,, then serve on a 
hot dish. 

Poulets a la Montmorency. 

Draw and singe two chickens of equal size. 
Mix together minced suet, bread-crumbs, spice, 
aromatic herbs, pepper, salt, and the juice of a 
lemon; put a little in the body of each chicken. 
Lay some thin slices of fat pork over each, and 
also at the bottom of an earthenware stewpot. 
Place the chickens upon them, add several 
carrots, onions, a clove or two, bay leaves, 
thyme, and a bunch of parsley. Moisten with 
a cupful of bouillon. Lay buttered paper over 
all and cook in the oven from two to three hours. 
Serve with clear sauce espagnole. 

Poulets a la Jardiniere. 

Pluck and draw the chicken. Cut it open 
down the back and lay as flat as possible. Let 



ADDENDUM. 215 



it steep awhile in melted butter in whicli a clove 
of garlic and some strong seasoning has lain. 
Then drain the chicken, roll it well in bread- 
crumbs, then broil over a clear fire. When 
cooked lay upon a hot dish and pour over a 
sauce made with a little of the melted butter, 
slightly thickened with flour, a glass of wine, a 
spoonful of vinegar, chopped parsley and mush- 
rooms. Pour over the chicken and serve. 

Poule a la Reine. 

Draw and singe a fowl ; an old one will do. 
Rub it over well with butter, and cover with 
sliced lemons. Let it cook for two hours in a 
covered vessel, in which place also a carrot, two 
onions, a bouquet garni, and a spoonful of vine- 
gar with a little stock. Serve without these 
vegetables, but with a sauce made from fresh 
tomatoes (see Sauces) or a Financiere ragout. 
(See Fricassees and Rechauffes.) 

Canard aux Navets. 

After having drawn and singed a duck, truss 
it, and then place it in a thick brown sauce to 
boil gently, turning it about occasionally; add 
a bouquet garni, coarse salt and peppercorns, and 



2i6 ADDENDUM. 



some turnips cut neatly into sliort thick pieces. 
Allow it to cook from an hour and a half to two 
hours. Skim away all fat^ serve with the tur- 
nips piled round the duck. This is the fac^on 
hourgeoise of preparing the duck. Another way 
is to cook the duck separately in a white sauce, 
the turnips boiled in water to blanch them, then 
added to a little veal stock and white thicken- 
ing, well seasoned, then poured over the duck 
when that is thick enough. 

Canard a la Puree Verte. 

Cook a pint of peas with chives, parsley, and 
watercress in a little water till quite soft. At 
the same time boil a duck in broth with aromatic 
herbs, onions, spice, and seasoning. Pass the 
peas through a tamis, thin the puree with a little 
broth, season well, and pour over the duck. A 
little salt bacon cut in strips and frizzled may 
be laid round the dish as a garni. 

Pigeons en Surprise. 

Take five pigeons, pluck and draw them, 
truss them also. Blanch the pigeons for a few 
minutes in boiling water. Take them out, and 
in the same water put five good lettuces. Let 



ADDENDUM. 217 



them boil ten minutes, throw them into cold 
water and then squeeze them in a cloth. Cut 
them in two without separating the leaves, 
sprinkle the inside with the following mixture : 
the livers finely minced together with parsley, 
tarragon, thyme, chives, etc., and all mixed with 
a little butter, salt and pepper. Then put in 
each lettuce one of the pigeons, cover with 
another sprinkling of herbs, and close up the 
lettuce to appear as if untouched, tie them 
securely and let them stew in rich broth for an 
hour. When cooked drain them, remove the 
string. Serve with a rich sauce made from a 
little of the liquor thickened with yolks of eggs. 
Dress nicely on a hot dish and pour the sauce 
round the " lettuces." 

Morue a la Ppoven^vale. 

Allow some salted cod to lie in water for 
thirty-six hours, changing the water frequently. 
Then put on the fire in clear cold water, and as 
soon as it boils the cod is cooked ; lift it at once 
and drain it. Place in a tin baking dish some 
minced shallots, chives and parsley, sliced 
lemon, a little butter, and two spoonfuls of oil. 
Arrange the cod over this in small pieces ; then 



2i8 ADDENDUM, 



cover over tlie cod with the same mixture and 
grate a little stale bread over all. Bake for 
twenty minutes in the oven. 

Morue Fraiche aux Fines Herbes. 

Take a whole cod, well wash and clean it. 
Dry and powder it with flour, then rub over a 
tin baking-dish with fresh butter. Place the 
cod in it_, pour melted butter over and bake for 
twenty minutes to half an hour. When done 
pour over the following sauce : — a lump of 
butter the size of an Q^^y a glass of white wine, 
a tablespoonful of vinegar, same of chopped 
parsley, chives and sweet herbs, pepper and 
salt. Let these boil a moment, place the cod on 
a dish and cover with the sauce. Cod is very 
good baked this way and served with tomato 
sauce. 

Hareng-s a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

Clean well some herrings, split and bone them; 
broil them over a clear fire, then lay on a hot 
dish, spread over them butter mixed with dried 
parsley, salt and pepper. Squeeze the juice of 
a lemon over just before serving. 



ADDENDUM. 219 



Harengs a la Sainte Menehould. 

Split and bone tlie herrings^ let them lie in a 
little milk for two hours, dry tliem, then dip 
into a mixture of melted butter, yolks of eggs, 
salt and pepper and sweet herbs, cover them 
with brown crumbs of bread, fry gently and 
serve with white wine vineo:ar. 



Garrottes en Sauce. 

Cut some carrots into thin slices lengthways, 
and boil in salt and water till tender. It is 
better to boil them whole and slice them after- 
wards. Melt some butter in a saucepan, add a 
little flour, lay in the carrots, season well, pour 
on to a dish, sprinkle with finely chopped or 
\ dried parsley. Celery, parsnips, chicory, and 
turnips may all be done the same way. 

Pommes-de-Terre a la Cpeme. 

Boil some potatoes in water till quite tender^ 
slice them, and put in a saucepan with butter^ 
parsley and chives minced, salt and pepper, and 
a cupful of cream. Let them boil gently, and 
beat all the time with a wooden fork. 



220 ADDENDUM. 



Salsifis Frits. 

Boil the salsifys in water with vinegar and 
salt till quite tender. Drain and dip them in 
batter as prepared for apple fritters, then cover 
with bread raspings, drop into boiling fat, and 
cook for five minutes. Or they may be boiled, 
drained, then covered with white sauce. 

Betteraves Fricassees. 

Pare and slice some beetroots, put them in the 
saute pan, with butter, chives and parsley, 
chopped, a little garlic or minced shallots and a 
sprinkling of flour, pepper and salt and a dash 
of vinegar. Let them boil up for a few minutes, 
then serve. Very good with either boiled or 
baked beef 

Champig'nons a la Creme. 

Place some mushrooms in the saute pan, with 
the same addition as above, add a little warm 
water; when cooked add the yolks of two or 
three eggs, and a cupful of cream. Let it boil 
once, and then serve over fried bread. 

Pudding" a la Moelle. 

Break four ounces of dried biscuits into a 
glass of milk, mix with this the yolks of four 



ADDENDUM. 221 



and whites of two eggs. Add two ounces of 
powdered sugar^ tlie marrow of a beef bone 
minced, a glass of brandy, one of liqueur, and 
a spoonful of potato flour. Let it boil till 
tbick, tben pour into a buttered mould and 
bake balf an hour. 

Pets de Nonne. 

Put in a saucepan two teacupfuls of water, a 
little sugar and essence of lemon. Gradually 
sift in some flour, stirring all the time, add a 
small lump of butter, and when a smooth paste 
is obtained, take off the fire, and stir in two 
eggs thoroughly. Take small portions no larger 
than a walnut, drop into boiling fat, let them 
attain a golden colour, drain and roll in pow- 
dered sugar. Serve with jelly. 

Giteau d'Amandes. 

Weigh several eggs in their shells, add the 
same weight of flour, butter and white sugar. 
Pound the same weight of sweet almonds in 
a mortar with a little lemon juice. Beat the 
eggs, whites and yolks, together, add them to the 
almonds, then the other ingredients. Mix all 
smoothly together. Batter a shallow mould and 



222 ADDENDUM. 



pour in the mixture. Bake in the oven for 
twenty minutes. This makes an excellent foun- 
dation for fancy cakes. 

Compote Blanche de Pommes. 

Pare and quarter some russet apples^ drop 
them into boiling water with a few lumps of 
sugar in it. Let them cook till tender through^ 
but not broken. Arrange in a glass dish, then 
add more sugar to the liquor to form a syrup, 
and boil till it thickens, then pour over the 
apples. 

Pears may be blanched and done the same 
way. Apricots done the same should have a 
glass of sweet wine added to the syrup, and the 
kernels should be blanched and thrown into it, 
then poured over the fruit. 



INDEX. 





PAGE 




PAGB 


Apple Fritters . 


86 


Canard aux Navets . 215 


Salad . 


52 


Candied Fruit . 


. 162 


Aromatics . 


168 


Capsicum Salad . 


. 50 


Asparagus tops, a la 




Carre de Mouton 


. 206 


Creme . 


38 


Carrots 


. 219 


Aubergines, Farciies . 


40 


Carrot Salad 


. 51 


Grilled 


41 


Soup 


. 202 






Carrottes en Sauce . 219 


Bean Salad . 


53 


Cauliflowers — 




Beef . . . 203-205 


" Au Fromag 


je" . 37 


Olives . 


182 


" Au Gratin 


" . 37 


Beetroots 


220 


Celery Salad 


. 52 


Betteraves Fricassees 


200 


Champignons { 


I la 


Bisque 


108 


Creme 


. 220 


Blanquette de Veau . 


209 


Charlotte Russe 


. 103 


Boeuf a la Daube 


76 


Cheese Darioles 


. 119 


a la Mode 


203 


Fondu . 


. 119 


au Four 


204 


Fricassee 


. 120 


Bouillon 


14 


Omelette 


. 121 


Brioche 


92 


Pudding- 


. 118 


Brown Onion Soup 


21 


Salads . 


. 121 






Sandwiches 


. 120 


Canard a la Puree Verte 216 


Savoury Eic 


e . 119 



223 



224 INDEX. 




PAGE 




PAGE 


Chestnut Soup . . 200 


Eclairs aux Chocolat . 


91 


Chives . . . 145 


Economy- 


1 


Chocolate Cream Ga- 


Eggs .... 


197 


teau ... 90 


a la Bonne Femme 


172 


Choux a la Creme . 91 


au Gratin 


111 


Cod . . . 217-218 


Entrees and Entremets, 




C/ompotes — 


Eemarks on . 


167 


Blanche de Pommes 222 


Entrees — 




Cherries . . 104 


Fish . 


175 


Pears . . .104 


Meat . 


174 


Plums . . .104 


Entremets . 


176 


Prunes. . . 104 


Epaule de Mouton 


207 


Quinces . . 103 






Eemarks on . 94 


Fast-day Dishes . 


106 


Ehubarb . . 104 


Fennel Salad 


53 


Strawberries . 104 


Filet de Mouton . 


207 


Conserve of Tomatoes 151 


Filets de Lapin . 


213 


Cooking- vessels, French 10 


Fish— 




Cotelettes de Pore . 212 


Au Gratin . 


109 


Creme Ptenversee . 102 


Baked Cod . 


114 


Sambayone . . 102 


Flat . 


113 


Croquettes . . . 169 


Halibut a la Creme 114 


Cucumber Salad . 51 


Halibut Steaks . 


114 


Cucumbers, Stuffed . 40 


Mackerel and Her- 




Curried Vegetables — 


rings 


116 


Brown ... 42 


Mayonnaise . 


117 


White ... 43 


Morue a la Hol- 






landaise 


113 


" Daubieres " and " Brai- 


Pickling 


116 


sieres," Eemarks on 75 


Fish- 




Diplomate ... 97 


Salmon Steaks 


115 


Drunkard's Broth . 143 


Flageolets au Beurre . 


183 


Duck . . . 215-216 


1 Flat Fish Eecijje 


113 



INDEX. 



225 



Flavoured Vinegars 

Foie de Yeau 

Fowl . 

Frangipane. 

French Cooking- vessels 

Kitchens 

Pancakes 

Pie-crust 

Stoves . 
Fricandeaux 
Fricassees and Re- 
chauffees, Remarks 
on . 
Fried Parsley- 
Salsify . 
Fruit "Glace" 

Remarks on 

Salads . 
Frying and " Saute " 
ing, Remarks on 



PAGE 

210 

214 

91 

10 

9 

87 

195 

8 

129 



125 
41 
38 
162 
160 
160 

82 



Galantines ... 80 
Galette Cherbourgeoise 99 
Lorraine . . 99 
Gamekeeper's Potage . 26 
Game Salad . . 56 
Gateaux and Compotes, 

Remarks on . 89 

Gateau au Riz . . 92 
d'Abricots . . 90 
d'Amandes . . 221 
d'CEuf s au Vanille 101 
SoujEde un Citron . 95 



PAGE 

Genoise Fourree . . 90 

Gigot de Mouton . 209 
Green Artichokes, " a 

la Barigoule " . . 35 

Grilled Aubergines . 41 

Ham . . . .211 
Salad ... 56 
Harengs a la Maitre 

d'Hotel. . . 218 

Haricot Bean Mayon- 
naise ... 54 
Puree of . 24 

Haricot de Mouton . 208 
Hashes . . . 171 
Herrings . . 218-219 

Imitation Game Pie . 195 

Jambon a la Braise . 211 

a la Broche . . 211 

Jerusalem Artichokes, 

a la Maitre d'Hotel . 36 

in Sauce . . 37 

Soup ... 26 

Kidneys . . .193 

Flitters . . 194 

Kitchens, French . 9 

Langue de Boeuf . 204 

Lapin au Gite . . 212 

en Assiette . . 213 

Saute . . .214 

Q 



226 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Leeks and Onions, Re- 
marks on . . 140 
Leek Soup . . .201 
Lentils, Puree of . 25 
Lobster Salad . . 57 
Luncheon, Remarks on 178 

Macaroni . . . 112 

Mackerel . . .109 
Maig-re Dishes, Re- 
marks on . . 106 
Marasquin . . . 100 
Mayonnaise . . 54 
Meat Entrees . . 174 
Menus. . . . 190 
Morue a la Proveucale 217 
Fraiche aux Fines 
Herbes . . 218 
Mushrooms — 

a la Poulette . 156 
a la Provencale . 156 
au Gratin . .157 
Ketchup . .158 
Omelette . . 158 
Remarks on . 153, 220 
Salad ... 54 
Mutton . . 206-209 

CEufs a la Neige . .123 

Omelettes — 

au Fines Herbes . 122 
au Rhum . . 123 
au Sucre . . 122 





PAGE 


Omelettes — 




Cheese . 


. 121 


Mushroom . 


. 122 


Onion . 


. 122 


Remarks on . 


. 109 


Soufflee 


183 


Onions and Leeks, Re- 




marks on . 


140 


Ox Tail 


205 


Parsnips and Turnips 


> 


Puree of . 


25 


Pate d'Eclair 


. 91 


Pate of Macaroni 


196 


Peas or Lentils, Puree 




of 


25 


Petits Pois . 


39 


Pets de Nonne . 


221 


Pigeons 


216 


en Surprise . 


216 


Pommes de Terre a la 




Creme 


219 


Pork . 


212 


Potage a la Crecy 


202 


a la Puree . 


182 


au Lait . 


107 


au Potiron . 


. 201 


aux Marrons 


. 200 


A^iL Poireaux 


. 201 


Boubillasse . 


. 202 


Printanier . 


. 201 


Potatoes 


. 219 


Potato Salad 


. 55 





INDEX. 


227 




PAGE 




PAGE 


Potato Soup 


20 


Salads — 




Poule a la Reine 


215 


Game . 


56 


Poulets a la Jardiniere 


214 


Ham 


56 


a ]a Montmorency 


214 


Lobster 


57 


Poultry a la Daube 


78 


Mushroom . 


54 


Pudding a la Moelle . 


220 


Potato . 


55 


Pumpkin Soup . 


201 


Remarks on . 


45 


Purees .... 


18 


Sardine 


55 


Purees of— 




Salsifis Frits 


220 


Carrots 


26 


Salt Cod 


108 


Haricot Beans 


24 


Sardine Salad 


55 


Peas or Lentils . 


25 


Sauces — 




Turnips and Par- 




au Confiture 


73 


snips . 


25 


au Jambon . 


68 






aux Citrons . 


73 


Quatre-quarts 


101 


Bechamel 


68 


Queue de Boeuf . 


205 


Bordelaise . 


68 






Dite Beurre Noir 


64 


Rabbit . . ' . 212-214 


Financiere . 


69 


Ragout of Mutton 


128 


Green Mayonnais( 


3 71 


Rissoles 


85 


Horse Radish 


72 






Mayonnaise . 


. 71 


Saint Honore 


100 


Blanche 


70 


Salad Dressings, Rules 




Napolitaine . 


. 73 


for Mixing 


58 


Normande . 


. 66 


Salads — 




Parisienne . 


. 65 


Apple . 


52 


(sweet) . 


. 72 


Bean 


53 


Piquante 


. 65 


Capsicum 


50 


Poulette 


. 66 


Carrot . 


51 


Ravigote 


. 67 


Celery . 


52 


Remarks on . 


. 59 


Cucumber . 


51 


Robert . 


. 65 


Fennel . 


53 


Salmis . 


69,70 



228 



INDEX. 



Sauces — 

Soubese » 

Tartar e 
Savarin 

Sea Kale in Cream 
Shin of Beef 
Small Dinners, Ee 

marks on . 
Snowballs in Tomatoes 
Sole a la Normande 
Sorrel . 

Soup 
Soups — 

Artichoke 

Brown Onion 

Carrot . 

Chestnut 

Classified 

Leek 

Potato . 

Pumpkin 

Sorrel . 

Spring . 

Tomato . 

Vermicelli 

"Watercress 

White Stock 
Spinach 

a la Creme 

en Croustades 
Spring Soup 
Stews . 
Stoves, French 



PAGE 

66 
67 
98 
34 
15 

185 
149 
109 
132 
138 

26 

21 

202 

200 

14 

201 

20 

201 

138 

201 

22 

23 

22 

24 

134 

136 

135 

201 

75 

8 



Ee- 



Stuffed Cucumbers 

Tomatoes 
Supper Dishes, 

marks on 
Sweetbreads 
Sweet Entremets. 
Sweet Pickle 



Tarte . 

Timbale of Macaroni 

Tomatoes — 

Conserve 

Farcis . 

Mayonnaise 

Puree . 

Remarks on 

Soup 

Stuffed . 
Tongue 

Turnips and Parsnips, 
Puree of . 



PAGE 

40 
149 

193 

197 

176 

95 

93 
124 



. 151 

. 171 

. 150 

. 147 

. 146 
22, 148 

. 149 

. 204 

25 



Veal . . . 209-211 
Vegetable Pies . . 43 
Vegetables, Curried . 
Vegetables, Remarks 

on . 
Vermicelli Soup. 
Vol-au-vents 



42 

28 

23 

172 



Watercress . . . 137 

Soup . . 22,139 

White Stock Soup . 24 



A SELECTION FROM 



Ward, Lock & Bowden's 

LIST OF 

STANDARD REFERENCE VOLUMES, 



AND 



POPULAR USEFUL BOOKS 



THE NEW EDITION OF 
TB£ BEST COOKERY BOOK IN THE WORLD. 

(Published November, 1868). 

Enlarged, Re-composed, Revised, Improved. With New Menus, 

New Modes, New Recipes, New Tables, New Engravings, 

New Coloured Plates. 

5S8th Thousand, strongly bound, hali-roan, price 7s. 6d. ; cloth gilt. 

bevelled boards, gilt edges, 8s. Gd.; half-calf, lOs. 6d, ; 

e legant full tree calf, 18s. 

MRS. BEETON'S 

BOOK OF 

jHOUSEHOLD JVIANAGEMENT. 

Efitirely New ayd greatly Enlarged and Improved Edition, 

INCLUDING 

360 additional pages of New Recipes and New Engravings, or in all 

about 1,700 pages, with Thousands of Recipes and Instructions, 

Hundreds of Engravings and New Coloured Cookery Plates. 

With Quantities, Time, Costs, and Seasons, Directions for Carvine 
and Trussing, Management of Children, Arrangement and Economy of 
the Kitchen, Duties of Servants, the Doctor. Legal Memoranda, and 
Bills of Fare and Menus of all kinds and for all Seasons. 

In tJiis New Edition the size of the 2iaffes has been increased, 
and 360 pages added, so that the work noiv contains nearly 
one half as much matter again as the old edition, 

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON THE NEW EDITION. 

" Perfect as it was before, it is much more so now."- -Bristol Times. 

" Should be one of the wedding presents of every bride." — The 
Christian World. 

" Hardly "Jnything belonging to domestic life is wanting to this ency 
clopaedic vCiUme." — Manchester Examiner. 

*^f* As a Weddbig Gift, Bi7-ihday Book, or Presentation Vohivte at 
any feriod of the year, Mrs. Beeton's " Household Managemejit" is en- 
titled to the very first place. The book will last a lijetiine, and save 
money every day. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



STANDARD COpKERY & HOUSEKEEPING BOOKS. 



Price 

3,6 



2/6 



7/6 



7/6 



MRS. BEETON'S EVERY-DAY COOKERY AND HOUSE- 
KEEPING BOOK. Re-written and Revised throughout, greatly- 
Enlarged and Improved ; containing 570 Pages, 1,800 Recipes, in- 
cluding Instructions for Foreign and Vegetarian Cookery, New French 
and English Menus for every Month in the Year, New Menus for 
Breakfast, Luncheon, Tea, Supper and Picnics, New Tables of House- 
keeping Accounts and household Expenditure, New Coloured Plates 
and 600 Engravings. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. 
Mrs. Beeton's Everv-Dav Cookery has the reputation of being 
the best Cookery Book issued at its price, and the Publishers trust that in 
its enlarged and improved fortn it tnay be tnore acceptable than ever in 
English-speaking households, hifinite pains have been taken ifi the pre- 
paration of this New Edition. Eve^y line has been recomposed, and 
Three Hundred Pages added, so that the work "will, it is hoped, deserve 
the praise bestowed upon it of being the Btsr and Cheapest, as well as the 
most Complete Alanual on Cookery dftd Housekeeping ever offered at 
anything like the price. 

MRS. BEETON'S ALL ABOUT COOKERY. Enlarged, 
Revised, and thoroughly brought up to date, containing 2,000 Recipes 
for every branch of Cookery, New Menus for all meals for all months 
in the year Valuable Coloured Plates and EOO Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo, 450 Pages, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. 

The Itnprovements and Additions made in the New Edition tnay be 
described under the following head. . — The thorough Revision of 
all the Recipes contained in the last Edition — New Recipes 
for every branch oi Cookery — The newest modes of serving 
Dinners and ether meals show^n .n the New Menus— Floral and 
other pretty Designs for Menu Cards — Table Decorations for all 
Seasons, being practical suggestions for the Beauty of the Home 
— The new and beautifully executed Coloured Plates, new Full- 
page and other Illustrations. 

A COMPANION VOLUME TO "MRS. BEETON'S BOOK OF 
HOUSEHOLD MANAGMENT." 

MRS. BEETON'S HOUSEWIFE'S TREASURY OF 

DOMESTIC INFORMATION. With numerous full-page Co- 
loured and other Plates, and about 600 Illustrations In the Text. 
Crown 8vo, half-roan, 7 s. 6d. ; half -calf, lOs. 6d. 

Among the subjects treated of will be found : — How to Build, Buy, 
Rent, and Furnish a House.— Taste in the House. — Economical 
Housekeeping. — Management of Children. — Home Needlework, 
Dressmaking and Millinery. — Fancy and Art Needlework. — The 
Toilet.— Modern Etiquette. — Employment of Leisure Hours. 

" In the one thousand and fifty-six pages in this marvellous * Home 
Book * there is not one tvorthless or unnecessary item, not one 

article we would ever wish to forget." — The Court Journal, 

SYLVIA'S FAMILY MANAGEMENT. A Book of Thrift 
and Cottage Economy. With numerous Coloured and other Plates 
and 350 Illustrations in the Text. Medium 8vo, cloth gilt, bevelled 
boards, 7s. 6d. 

The subjects treated of include: Choice of a Home— Furnishing 
— Cookery and Housekeeping — Domestic Hygiene — Dress and 
Clothing— Children — Household Pets and Amusements, &c. &c. 

From the SATUBDAT REVIEW : ** The most important 
publication, so far as variety of subjects is concerned, which tve have 
yet seen for the benefit of families of small means." 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Ltd. 



STANDARD COOKERY & HOUSEKEEPING BOOKS. 



THE COOKERY INSTRUCTOR. By Edith A. Barnett, 

Examiner to the National Training School for Cookery, &c= Illus- 
trated. The reasons for Recipes, which are almost entirely omitted in 
all Modern Cookery Books, are here clearly given. Crown 8vo, cloth 
gilt, 23. 6d. ; Cheap Edition, cloth limp, Is. 

"The Cookery Instructor, we are sure, will be a boon to thousands. 
It is simple, concise, intelligible and accurate." — Sheffield Telegraph. 

GOOD PLAIN COOKERY. By Mary Hooper, Author of 

"Little Dinners," "Every Day Meals,'' &c. This work, by an 
acknowledged Mistress of the Cuisine, is specially devoted to what is 
generally known as Plain Cookery. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s, 6d, ; 
Cheap Edition, cloth limp, Is. 

THE ART OF PASTRY-MAKING: French and English; 

including Cakes, Sweetmeats and Fancy Biscuits. By Emile 
Herisse, late Chief Pastrycook- Confectioner. With 40 Illustra- 
tions. Crown 8vo, linen boards, bevelled, 2s. del. 

The want of a cheap and reliable Book of Recipes /or viaking Pastry 
has lon^ been seriously felt by Cooks, Pastrycooks and Housewives. The 
author has emieavoured to present, in a style so plaifi and fuinute as to be 
perfectly co7uprehe7isible to anyone, the Jievest and bes. recipes, and those 
only oj really pi actical value. Every recipe m the book has been 
thoroughly tested and/reqtiently used by the author during twenty years* 
practice in London and Paris. 

MRS. BEETON'S COOKERY BOOK. New and Enlarged 

Edition, containing upwards of 1,000 Recipes, 3£0 Engravings, and 
Four Coloured Plates. Marketing, Vegetarian Cookery, Menus, Table 
Arrangements, Trussing, Carving, &c., &c. with Quantities, Time, 
Cost and Seasons. Crown Svo, cloth. Is. ; cloth gilt, Is, 6d. 

THE PEOPLE'S HOUSEKEEPER. A Complete Guide to 
Comfort, Economy and Health. Comprising Cookery, Household 
Economy, the Family Health, Furnishing, Housework, Clothes, Mar- 
keting, Food, &c. &c. Post Svo, cloth, Is, 

THE ECONOMICAL COOKERY BOOK, for Housewives, 
Cooks, and Maids-of-all-Work; with Advice to Mistress and Servant. 
By Mrs. Warren. New Edition, with additional pages and numerous 
Illustrations. Post Svo, limp cloth, 6d. 

THE SIXPENNY PRACTICAL COOKERY AND ECONO- 

MICAL RECIPES. Comprising Marketing, Rehshes, Boiled Dishes, 
Vegetables, Soups, Side Dishes, Salads, Stews, Fish, Joints, Sauces, 
Cheap Dishes, Invalid Cookery, &c. Gd. 

MRS. BEETON'S SIXPENNY COOKERY BOOK for the 

people and Housekeeper's Guide to Comfort, Economy and Health. 
Crown Svo, linen covers, 6d, 

MRS. BEETON'S COTTAGE COOKERY BOOK. Contain- 

ing Simple Lessons in Cookery and Economical Home Management. 
A Guide to Economy in the Kitchen, and a valuable Handbook for 
Young Housewives. Fcap. Svo, cloth limp, 6d.; paper covers, 3d, 

BEETON'S PENNY COOKERY BOOK. Containing more 
than 200 Recipes and Instructions. Price Id. ; post free, l\d. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Ltd. 



EDUCATIONAL AND UbKKUL WORKS. 



} Price 

7/6 



6/- 



5/- 

or 

3/6 



51- 



THE BEST WORK FOR SELF-EDUCATOkS. 
THE UNIVERSAL INSTRUCTOR ; or, Self-Culture for All. 

A Complete Cyclopaedia of Learning and Self-Education ; meeting 
the Requirements of all Classes of Students, and forming a Perfect 
System of Intellectual Culture. With 2,000 Illustrations. In Three 
Vols., royal 8vo, each 7«. Qd. ; half-calf or half-morocco, 12s, 
" The ivork ig excellent, and it is to he hoped it may meet 
with the popularity it deserves." — Athen^um. 

THE DOCTOR AT HOME, AND NURSE'S GUIDE BOOK; 

A Guide to the Structure and Composition of the Human Body ; the 
Nature, Causes and Treatment of Disease ; its Maintenance in Health 
and Strength, and the Prolongation of Life ; with special Directions 
respecting the various Ailments and Disorders of Childhood and 
Womanhood, Edited by George Black, M.B. Edin., Author of 
*' First Aid in Accident and Sudden Illness," &c. With Hundreds Of 
Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth, 900 pages, 6s. 

" Doctors will be the first to testify to the value of such a work as 
this."— City Press. 

"THE PRACTICAL MECHANIC SERIES" OF INDUS- 
TRIAL HANDBOOKS. Profusely Illustrated. Demy 8vo, strongly 
bound in cloth, price Ss. 6d. or 5s. each. 

1 The Stonemason and the Bricklayer'. With Eleven Folding 

Plates and 224 Illustrations in tlie Text. 5s. 

2 The Domestic House Planner and the Sanitary Architect. 

With Sixteen Folding Plates and Sixty Illustrations in the 
Text. 5s. 

3 The General Machinist. Witli Four Folding Plates and Seventy- 

five Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 

4 The Building and Machine Draughtsman. With Eighteen 

Folding Plates and 155 Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 

5 The Carpenter and Joiner. Wuh Twenty-five Folding Plates 

and 200 Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 

6 The Ornamental Draughtsman; Including Form and Colour. 

With Nineteen Folding Plates and Illusts. in the Text. 3s.6d. 

7 The Iron and Steel Maker. With Five Folding Plates and Thirty- 

two Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 

8 The Cabinet Maker. With Ten Folding Plates and Sixty-Two 

Illustrations in the Text. Ss. 6d. 

9 The Geometrical Draughtsman. With Seven Folding Plates and 

126 Illustrations in the Text. 3s. 6d. 
10 The Student's Introduction to Mechanics. With 150 Illustra- 
tions. 5 s. 
" The information has been supplied by mien who are peculiarly well 
qualified to speak on the subject ; and if our mechanics and artisans could 
be induced to master books of this kind, their interest in their daily work 
would be quickened, and, since skilled labour can always command the 
Market, their advancement in life would be secured." — The Leeds 
Mercury. 

A DICTIONARY OF THE TECHNICAL AND TRADE 

TERMS of Architectural Design and Building Construction. Being 
Practical Descriptions, with Technical Details, of the Different Depart- 
ments connected with the various Subjects; with derivations of, and 
French and German equivalents or synonyms for the various Terms. 
With Explanatory Diagrams. Demy 8vo, doth, 5s. 
" The thoroughly explanatory character of the work gives it a high 
value, both as a book of reference, and as a practical guide for the young 
architect and builder. Technicality is shown to be no bar to a perfectly 
clear description of every term.'' — Daily Chronicle. 



HIGH-CLASS BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 



36/- 

42/- 

18- 



7/6 



7/6 



7/6 



A Complete Encyclopaedia for Thirty Shillings. 

Iii Fuur Vols., royal 8vo, cloth, 30s. ; strongly bound, half-Persian, 42s. / 

half-russia, 60s. ; half-calf, 63s. ; in Six Vols., cloth, SGs. ; 

half-calf, 54:S. 

BEETON'S ILLUSTRATED ENCYCLOP/EDIA OF UNI- 
VERSAL INFORMATION. Comprising Geography, History, 
Biography, Chronology, Art, Science, Literature, Religion 
AND Philosophy, and containing 4,000 Pages, 50,000 Articles, and 
Himdreds of Engravings and Coloured Maps. 
** We know of no booh which in such small compass gives so 

much information." — The Scotsman. 

** A perfect mine of infonnation.^' — Leeds Mercury. 



Brought down to the Autumn of 1892. 
HAYDN'S DICTIONARY OF DATES. Relating to all 
Ages and Nations ; for Universal Reference. Containing about 12,000 
distinct Articles, and 130,000 Dates and Facts. Twentieth 
Edition, Enlarged, Corrected and Revised by Benjamin Vincent, 
Librarian of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Medium Svo, 
cloth, price 18s. ; half-calf, 24s. ; full or tree-calf, 31s. 6d. 

THE TIMES on the 18th Edition :— " We see no reason to reverse 
Mr qualify the judgment we expressed upon a former er^ition, that the 
'Dictionary of Dates is the most Universal Book of Reference in 
a moderate compass that we hnotv of in the English Lan- 
guage,** 

VINCENT'S DICTIONARY OF BIOGRAPHY, Past and 

Present. Containing the Chief Events in the Lives of Eminent Persons 
of all Ages and Nations. By Benjamin Vincent, Librarian of the Royal 
Institution of Great Britain, and Editor of '"Haydn's Dictionary of 
Dates." In One Vol., medium Svo, cloth, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. ; full 
or tree-calf, 18s. 

" It has the merit of condensing into the smallest possible compass the 
leading events in the career of every man and woman of 
eminence. ... It is very carefully edited, and must evidently be 
the result of constant industry, combined with good judgment and taste." — 
The Times. 

HAYDN'S DICTIONARY OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE. By 

the late Edwin Lankester, M.D., F.R.S., assisted by Distinguished 
Physicians and Surgeons. With an Appendix on Sick Nursing and 
Mothers' Management. With full pages of Engravings. In Ooe 
Vol., medium Svo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. 

*' Tlie best ivorJc of its kind.'*— Medicai. Press and Circular 
'* Hie ftdlest and most reliable work of its kind.** — Liver- 
pool Albion. 

HAYDN'S BIBLE DICTIONARY. For the use of all Readers 

and Students of the Old and New Testaments, and of the Apocrypha. 
Edited by the late Rev. Charles Boutell, M.A. With many 
pages of Engravings, separately printed on tinted paper. In One 
Vol., medium Svo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. 
" Marked by great care and accuracy, clearness com- 
bined with brevity, and a vast amount of information whwh 
will delight and benefit readers.**— Thb Watchman. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



HIGH-CLASS BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 



10/6 



7/6 



7/6 

7/6 
7/6 

7/6 



7/6 

per Vol. 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE: A Guide to Good Health, Long 

Life, and the Proper Treatment of all Diseases and Ailments. Edited 
by George Black, M.B. Edin. Accurately Illustrated with 450 
Engravings. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price lOs. 6d. ; half-calf, 16s. 
"Considerable is the care which Dr. Black has bestowed upon his work 
on Household Medicine. He has gone carefully and ably into all the sub- 
jects that can be included in such a volume. . . . The tvork is roorthy 
of study and attention, and likely to produce real good." — 
Athen.«um. 

THE BOOK FOR AMATEURS IN CARPENTRY, &»c. 
EVERY MAN HIS OWN MECHANIC. Being a Complete 
Guide for Amateurs in Household Carpentry and Joinery, Orna- 
mental AND Constructional Carpentry and Joinery, and 
Household Building, Art and Practice. New, Revised and 
Enlarged Edition, with about 900 Illustrations of Tools, Pro- 
cesses. Buildings, &C. Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7s. 6d. ; half- 
calf, 12s. 

" There is a fund of solid information of every kind in the work before 
us, which entitles it to the proud distinction of being a complete * vade- 
mecum' of the subjects upon tvhicli it treats.''— Thk Daily 
Telegraph. 

BEETONS DICTIONARY OF THE PHYSICAL SCI- 

ENCES ; Including Astronomy, Botany, Chemistry, Geology, Elec- 
tricity, Sound, Light, Heat, &c. With explanatory Engravings. 
Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY, 

POLITICS, AND LAW. With explanatory Woodcuts. Royal 
8vo, cloth gilt, 7*s. 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. 
BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF INDUSTRIES AND COM- 
MERCE; Accounts, Agriculture, Building, Banking, Engineering, 
Mechanism, Mining, Manufactures, Seamanship and Shipping, Steam 
Engines, and many other Useful Articles. With 300 Explanatory 
Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF LITERATURE, FINEARTS 

AND AMUSEMENTS ; Architecture, Books, Heraldry, Journalism, 
Music, Painting, Sculpture, and many other Subjects pertaining to 
Culture and general Information. With Explanatory WoodCUtS. 
Royal Svo, cloth gilt, price 7s. 6d. 

The care and labour bestowed on these works have rendered them com- 
plete and trustworthy Encyclopedias on the subjects which they include. 
The latest discoveries, iwprovetnents, 'and changes have been noticed and 
duly chronicled in the vayious articles, and no pains have been spared to 
attain at once completettess, clearness, and accuracy in each book. 

THE INDUSTRIAL SELF-INSTRUCTOR in the leading 

branches of Technical Science and Industrial Arts and Pro- 
cesses. With Coloured PJates, and many Hundreds of Working 
Drawings, Designs, and Diagrams. In Five Vols., demy 4to, cloth 
gilt, 7s. ad. each. 

This work, devoted to the spread of Technical Education, appeals to 
all who take an interest in Manufacttires and Construction, and in the 
progress ana operation of practical Science. Asa useful and- interesting 
book for youths and those engaged in self-education, it cannot fail to recotn- 
mend itself, while it will be found a book of useful reference to the general 
reader. 

"Promises to be one •/ the most useful books ever issued 
from the British press.' — Freeman's Journal. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



HELP FOR THOSE WHO HELP THEMSELVES. 



Price 

6/- 



7/6 
7/6 

7/6 

7/6 

7/6 

7/6 

7/6 

7/6 

7/6 



15/- 
18/- 
21/- 

15/- 
18/- 
21/- 



THE THIRD VOLUME OF THE SECOND SERIES OF \ 

AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. A Cyclopedia of 

Constructive and Decorative Art and Manual Laboi.r. With Foldine 
Supplements and Hundreds of Engravings in the Text. Crown 4to 
cloth gilt, 6*. ^ ' 

THE SECOND VOLUME OF THE SECOND SERIES OF 
AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. With Folding 

Supplements and Hundreds of Engravings. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt. Is. 6d, 
MECHANICAL PASTIMES : Volume 1. of the Second Series 

°'^."^^-^J^"'* Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements 

and Hundreds of Engravings. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. 
THE AMATEUR MECHANIC. Being the Seventh Volume 

of ''Amateur Work. Illustrated." With Folding Supplements 

and about 1,000 Engravings. 7*. 6d. 

THE AMATEUR'S STOREHOUSE. Being the Sixth 
Volume of " Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Svb- 
piements and about 1,000 Engravings. 7s. 6d 

THE HOME WORKMAN. Being the Fifth Volume of 
"Amateur Wokk, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements 
and about 1,000 Engravings. 78. 6d. 

PRACTICAL MECHANICS. Being the Fourth Volume of 
"Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements and 
about 1,000 Engravings. 7s. 6d. 

THE WORKSHOP AT HOME. Being the Third Volume of 

'Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements 
and about 1,000 Engravings. 7s. 6d. 

MECHANICS MADE EASY. Being the Second Volume of 
"Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements 
and about 1,000 Engravings in the Text. 7s. 6d. 

AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. Vol. 1. With Folding 

Supplements and about 1,000 Engravings. 7«. 6d. 

Among the subjects treated of in these Volumes will bt found •— 
Lathe Making — Electro Plating — Modelling in Clay— Orffan 
Building-Clock Making-Photography-Boat Building- Book- 
binding— Gas Fitting— Tools and Furniture-Veneering— French 
Polishing— Wood Carving— Plaster Casting— Fret-Work— Decora- 
tion— Working Drawings— House Painting and Papering— Violin 
Making— Electric Bells— Brass Casting— Wood Jointing— Brazine 
and Soldering— Boot Mending and Making— China Painting — 
House Painting— House Papering— Gilding— Picture Frame Mak- 
ing— Printing— Pianoforte Tuning— Forge Work — Bird Stuffing 
and Preserving, &c. &c., with Thousands of Useful Hints. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF UNIVERSAL INFORMA- 
TION : Science, Art, Literature, Religion and Philosophy 
Comprising about 2,000 pages, 4,000 columns, 25,000 complete 
Articles. In Two Vols., royal 8vo, with many Illustrations, 15s. : 
half- Persian, 21s. ; in One Vol., half-roan, without Illustrations, 18s. 
** A most valuable work, of reference."— Thv. Times 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF UNIVERSAL INFORMA- 
TION, relating to Geography, History, Biography, &c. With Maps 
In Two Vols., royal 8vo, cloth, with many Illustrations, 15s. ; half- 
Persian, 21s. : m One Vol., half-roan, without Illustrations, 18s. 
"A combination of accuracy, compactness, compre- 

hpnsivcness and cheapness."— Glasgow Herald. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



STANDARD REFERENCE BOOKS. 



Price 



10/6 



6/- 



7/6 

7/6 
7/6 
7/6 

7/6 
10/6 

12/- 
12/- 

V- 



IMPORTANT iVORK ON THE F/CZ/M— Second Edition. 
Dedicated by Special Permission to H R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh. 

VIOLIN-MAKING: As it Was and as it Is. A Historical, 
Theoretical, and Practical Treatise on the Art, for the Use of all Violin 
Makers and Players, Amateur and Professional. Preceded by an 
Essay on the Violin and its Position as a Musical Instrument. By 
Edward Heron-Allen. With Photographs, Folding Supplements 
and 200 Engravings. Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, price 10s. 6d. 
"A bock which all who love to hear or play the instrument will receive 
with acclamation." — Yorkshire Post. 

EVERYBODY'S LAWYER (Beeton's Law Book). Eighth 

and Entirely Xew Edition, completely Re-written and Re-composed. 
A Practical Compendium of the General Principles of English Juris- 
prudence. With copious Index. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s. 
"The information is set forth in the clearest manner. . . . 'Every- 
body's Lawyer' may be trusted to prove most helpful." — The Daily 
Chronicle. 

" A volume which really contains a vast storehouse of useful legal 
lore." — The Liverpool Daily Post. 

" We know of no work of its kind which is at once so simple, so clear, 

and so complete." — The Yorkshire Post. 

BEETON'S DIOTIONARY OF GEOGRAPHY: A Universal 

Gazetteer. Illustrated by Maps— Ancient, Modem, and Biblical, and 
several Hundred Engravings. Containing upwards of 12,000 distinct 
and complete Articles. Post 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 10s. 6d. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF BIOGRAPHY. Containing 
upwards of 10,000 Articles, profusely Illustrated by Portraits. Post 
8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 10s. 6d. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF NATURAL HISTORY. 

Containing upwards of 2,000 Articles and 400 Engravings. Crown 
8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 10s. Gd. 

BEETONS BOOK OF HOME PETS: How to Rear and 

Manage in Sickness and in Health. With many Coloured Plates, and 
upwards of 200 Woodcuts from designs principally by Harrison 
Weir. Post 8vo, half-bound, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 10s. 6d. 

A MILLION OF FACTS of Correct Data and Elemen- 
tary Information concerning the entire Circle of the Sciences, and on 
all subjects of Speculation and Practice. By Sir Richard Phillips. 
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 10s. 6d. 

THE SELF-AID CYCLOP/EDIA, for Self-Taught Stu- 
dents. Comprising General Drawing ; Architectural, Mechanical, and 
Engineering Drawing ; Ornamental Drawing and Design ; Mechanics 
and Mechanism ; the Steam Emgine. By Robert Scott Burn, 
F.S.A.E., &c. With upwards of 1,000 Engravings. Demy Svo, half- 
bound, price 10s. 6d. 

LAVATER'S ESSAYS ON PHYSIOGNOMY. With Memoir 

of the Author. Illustrated with 400 Profiles. Royal Svo, cloth, 128. 

BROOKES' (R.) GENERAL GAZETTEER; or, Geogra- 
phical Dictionary. Medium Svo, cloth, price 12s. 

BROWN'S (Rev. J.) DICTIONARY OF THE BIBLE. 
Medium Svo, cloth, price 7s, 



L. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



WARD & LOCK'S POPULAR DICTIONARIES. 



Price 



2/6 



5/- 

51- 
6/- 
3/6 

2/6 
6/- 

51- 
3/6 

3/6 

2/- 

v- 

2/6 

v- 

1/- 

2/- 

1/- 
6(i. 



Id. 



THE STANDARD 
DICTIONARIES OP LANGUAGE. 

The Cheapest Derivative Dictionary Published. 2s. 6d. 

The STANDARD ETYMOLOGICAL DICTIONARY of the 

ENGLISH LANGUAGE. By Francis Young. Large crown 8vo, 
cloth gilt, marbled edges, 500 pp., 2s. 6d. ; half-russia, 5s. Illus- 
trated Edition, cloth gilt, 3*. 6d. ; half-roan, 5s. 
" The work is brought well up to date. . . . Altogether, for its 
size, it will be found to be the most complete pojmlar Diction- 
ary of our language yet published."— Thu Athen^um. 

BREWER'S ETYMOLOGICAL 8c PRONOUNCING DIC- 
TIONARY OF DIFFICULT WORDS. By the Rev. E. Cobham 
Bkewhr, LL.D. Large crewn 8vo, 1,600 pp., cloth, 5s.; half-roan, 6s. 

WEBSTER'S UNIVERSAL PRONOUNCING AND DE- 
FINING DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. 
Condensed by C. A. Goodrich, D.D. Royal 8vo, half-roan, 5s. f 
Illustrated Edition, cloth, 6s. ; ditto gilt, 7s. 6d.; half-morocco, 
10s. 6d.; Smaller Edition, demy 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d. 

WEBSTER'S IMPROVED PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY 

OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Condensed and adapted by 
Charles Robson. Super-royal i6mo, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; half-roan, 
3s. 6d. / Illustrated Edition, half-morocco, 6s, 

WALKER AND WEBSTER'S ENGLISH DICTIONARY. 

With Key by Longmuir. Demy 8vo, cloth, 5s. ; half-roan, 6s. 

AINSWORTH'S LATIN DICTIONARY, English- Latin and 
Latin-English, Additions by J. Dymock, LL.D. Super-royal i6mo, 
cloth, 3s. 6d. 

NEW FRENCH-ENGLISH AND ENGLISH-FRENCH PRO- 
NOUNCING DICTIONARY. On the Basis of Nugent. Super- 
royal i6mo, cloth, 3s. 6d.; small fcap. 8vo, half-roan, 2s.; New Edi- 
tion, fcap. 8vo, wrapper. Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. 

WARD AND LOCK'S NEW PRONOUNCING DIC- 
TIONARY of the ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Crown 8vo, cloth, 300 
pp., price Is. ; Thicker Edition, half- roan, 2s. 6d. 

WEBSTER'S POCKET SHILLING DICTIONARY OF 

THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Condensed by Charles Robson. 
Imp. 32mo, cloth, 768 pp., Is. 

WARD AND LOCK'S SHILLING GERMAN DICTIONARY. 

Containing German- English and English-German, Geographical Dic- 
tionary, &c. Crown i6mo, cloth, Is.; demy 32mo, half-roan, ;3*. 

WALKER AND WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY. Containing 
upwards of 35,000 Words. Small fcap. 8vo, cloth. Is.; half- roan, Is. 6d, 

WEBSTER'S SIXPENNY POCKET PRONOUNCING 

DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Revised 
Edition, by W. G. Webster, Son of Noah Webster. Demy 32mo, 
cloth, 6d. 

WEBSTER'S PENNY PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY. 

Containing over 10,000 words. Price Id. ; or linen wrapper, 2d. 

WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



GARDENING BOOKS. 



Price 



10/6 



7/6 



6/- 

3/6 
2/6 



THE 



Standard Gardening Books. 



Enlarged and Revised Edition. 
BEETON'S NEW BOOK OF GARDEN MANAGEMENT. 

A New and Greatly Enlarged Edition, entirely Remodelled and 
thoroughly Revised ; forming a Compendium of the Theory and Practice 
of Horticulture, and a Complete Guide to Gardening in all its Branches. 
Profusely Illustrated with Coloured Plates and 600 Engravings. 
Royal 8vo, very handsomely bound, cloth gilt, bevelled boards, 
10s. 6d. 

Beeton's New Book of Garden Management is a complete attd 
exhaustive work on the Theory and Practice of Gardening in all its 
Branches, embodying Full and Detailed Iti/ormation on every subject 
that is directly or indirectly connected with tJie A rt, leading up from the 
preparation of any description of Ground, to render it fit and suitable 
for Horticultural purposes, to the Culture of every kind of Flower 
Fruit, Vegetable, Herb and Tree that is or can be grown in it. 

" The work is exceedingly comprehensive .... appears to 
leave no detail of the subject without adequate treatment.**— 
The Daily Telegraph. 

BEETON'S ILLUSTRATED GARDENING BOOK. A 

Complete Guide to Gardening in all its Branches, and a reliable com- 
pendium of the Theory and Practice of Horticulture. With Coloured 
Plates and Hundreds of Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. 

This -work is of a most comprehensive character, showing how to Lay 
Otit and Stock the Garden, and describing the Culture necessary for 
every Fruit, Flower and Vegetable that is grown in it. The work also 
treats exhaustively of Sites, Soils aftd Manures, Sequence of Crops, 
Garden Carpentry, Tools and Appliances, Greenhouses, Orchard 
Houses, &*f. 

BEETON'S BOOK OF GARDEN MANAGEMENT. The ! 

Original Crown 8vo Edition. Embracing all kinds of information con- i 
nected with Fruit, Flower, and Kitchen Garden Cultivation, Orchid 
Houses, &c. &c. Illustrated with a large number of Engravings. 
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, price 6«. ; or in half-calf, 10s. 6d. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF EVERY-DAY GARDENING. 

Constituting a Popular Cyclopaedia of the Theory and Practice of 
Horticulture. Illustrated with Coloured Plates, made after Original 
Water Colour Drawings, and WoodcutS in the Text. Crown 8vo, cloth 
gilt, price 3s. 6d. 

ALL ABOUT GARDENING. Being a Popular Dictionary of 
Gardening, containing full and practical Instructions in the different 
Branches of Horticultural Science. With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 
cloth gilt, price 2s. 6d. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



GARDENING BOOKS. 



Price 

2/6 
2/6 



1/- 
1/6 



1/- 

v- 
1/- 

v- 

v- 
v- 

Id. 



The Standard Gardening Books— continued. 
THE GARDEN: Its Preparation and Arrangement. 

Showing and Describing how Gardens are Laid Out ; the Tools and 
Appliances wanted for Garden Work ; the Stractures with which Gar- 
dens are Furnished and Fquipped. With many Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo, clothj Us. 6d. 

WORK IN GARDEN AND GREENHOUSE ALL THE 

YEAR ROUND. Describing how Gardens are Kept, Stocked and 
Renewed ; Routine Work in Garden and Greenhouse all the year 
round ; the Training, Culture, and Propagation of Trees, Shrubs, 
Fruits, Flowers, and Vegetables. With many Illustrations. Crown 
8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. 

BEETON'S GARDENING BOOK. Containing full and prac- 
tical Instructions concerning general Gardening Operations, the Flower 
Garden, the Fruit Garden, the Kitchen Garden, Pests of the Garden, 
with a Monthly Calendar of W«rk to be done in the Garden throughout 
the Year. With Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth, price Is. ; or cloth 
gilt, with Coloured Plates, price Is. 6d. 

HOW TO MAKE A GARDEN. Giving Complete Instruc- 
tions on the Formation of a Garden. Describing every Operation that 
is necessary for the Conversion of a piece of Land into a well-arranged 
Garden. With many Illustrations. Crown Svo, limp cloth, Is. 

AIDS TO GARDENING: An Exhaustive and Reliable Sum- 
mary of Articles of all kinds requisite for Garden Work in every 
branch. With clear and practical Instructions for the Construction, 
Heating and Ventilation of Glazed Appliances, Fixed and Movable. 
With many Illustrations. Crown Svo, limp cloth. Is. 

THE GARDEN AND ITS WORK FOR EVERY MONTH 

IN THE YEAR. Setting forth the best Modes and Means of Re- 
storing worn-out Garden Ground ; the Renovation an i Regeneration 
of Fruit Trees ; the Theory of Plant Life and Growth ; the Methods 
of Propagation ; the Management of all kinds of Fruit Trees ; and the 
Gardener's Out-door Work in every Season. With many Illustra- 
tions. Crown Svo, limp cloth. Is, 

GREENHOUSE AND GARDEN. A Complete Summary of 
the Treatment of Flowers, Fruits and Vegetables under Glass; Direc- 
tions for Planting and Preserving Ornamental Shrubs and Trees ; the 
Culture of all kinds of Plants used as Food : Cultural Notes on all 
Varieties of Flowers ; and Instructions for Window Gardening and 
Management of Ferns. With many Illustrations. Crown Svo, 
limp cloth, l8. 

KITCHEN AND FLOWER GARDENING FOR PLEASURE 

AND PROFIT. A Practical Guide to the Cultivation of Vegetables, 
Fruits, and Flowers. With upwards of 100 Engravings. Crown Svo, 
limp cloth. Is. 

GLENNY'S ILLUSTRATED GARDEN ALMANAC AND 

FLORISTS' DIRECTORY. Published Annually, with Engravings 
of the Year's New Fruits, Flowers, and Vegetables, List of Novelties, 
Special Tables for Gardeners, Wrinkles for Gardeners, Alphabetical 
Lists of Florists, &c. &c. Demy Svo, price la. 

BEETON'S PENNY GARDENING BOOK. Price Id. f 

post free, i}^d. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



NEEDLEWORK BOOKS. 



Price 



7/6 



V- 



6d. 



1/- 



10/6 

5/- 
51- 

1/- 

ed. 
1/- 



Standard Needlework Books. 

BEETON'S BOOK OF NEEDLEVVORK. Consisting of 670 

Needlework Patterns, with full Descriptions and Instructions as to 
working them. Every Stitch Described and Engraved with the 
utmost accuracy, and the Quantity of Material requisite for earh 
Pattern stated. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 7s, 6d. 



SHILLING NEEDLEWORK BOOKS. 



1 Tatting Patterns. 

2 Embroidery Patterns. 
4 Knitting and Netting. 



6 Guipure Patterns. 

7 Point Lace Book. 



NEEDLEWORK INSTRUCTION BOOKS 

Imperial i6mo, ornamental wrapper, price 6d. each. 

1 Berlin Wool Instructions. With 1 8 Illustrations. 

2 Embroidery Instructions. With 65 Illustrations. 

3 Crochet Instructions. With 24 Illustrations. 

SYLVIA'S Needlework Books. 

Crown 8vo, fancy wrappers, profusely Illustrated, price Is. each. 

The Child's Illustrated Fancy Work and Doll Book. 



Sylv 
Sylv 
Sylv 
Sylv 
Sylv 
Sylv 
Sylv 



a's Lady's Illustrated Lace Book, 
as Book of Ornamental Needlework, 
as Illustrated Macrame Lace Book, 
a's Art of Church Embroidery, 
a's Book of Monograms, Initials, &c. 
as Illustrated Crochet Book, 
as Book of Drawn Linen Work. 



ART NEEDLEWORK. With full Instructions. Demy 4to, 
cloth gih, 10s. 6d, With many Designs and Four Folding Supple- 
ments. 

THE LADY'S BAZAAR AND FANCY FAIR BOOK. With 

364 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 5s. 

LADY S HANDBOOK OF FANCY NEEDLEWORK. Uni- 
form. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 5s, 

THE KNITTER'S NOTE BOOK. By E M. C, Author of 
" The Lady's Knitting Book," &;c. Is, ; limp, 6d. 



Bazaar and Fancy«Pair Books. 

Crown 8vo, fancy boards, price Js. each. 

1 Sylvia's Book of Bazaars and Fancy-Fairs. 

2 Sylvia's New Knitting, Netting, and Crochet Book. 

3 Sylvia's Illustrated Embroidery Book. 

4 Sylvia's Illustrated Book of Artistic Knicknacks. 

WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



POPULAR SHILLING MANUALS. 



WARD, LOCK, BOWDEN & CO.'S UNIVERSAL SERIES OF 

SHILLING USEFUL BOOKS 



1 Beeton's Shilling Cookery Book. With Cold. Plates. 

2 Beeton's Shilling Gardening Book. Fully Illustrated. 

3 Beeton's Complete Letter Writer, for Ladies and 

Gentlemen. 

4 Webster's Pocket English Dictionary. 

5 Beeton's Ready Reckoner. 

6 Beeton's Pictorial Spelling Book. 

7 Beeton's Family Washing Book. For Fifty-two Weeks. 
9 Beeton's Investing Money with Safety and Profit. 

13 Webster's Book-keeping. Single and Double Entry. 

14 The People's Shilling Housekeeper. 

15 Ward and Lock's Pocket English Dictionary. 

16 Ward and Lock's English and German Dictionary. 

18 Complete Etiquette for Ladies. 

19 Complete Etiquette for Gentlemen. 

20 Complete Etiquette for Families. 

22 Etiquette of iVIodern Society. 

23 Guide to the Stock Exchange and Money Market. 

24 Tegg's Readiest Reckoner ever Invented. 

25 The Bible Student's Handbook 

26 The Complete Shilling Self-Instructor. 

28 Speeches and Toasts : How to Make and Propose them. 

29 Ward and Lock's New Pronouncing Dictionary. 

30 Grammar Made Easy: The Child's Home Lesson Book. 

31 Child's First Book of Natural History. Illustrated. 

32 Webster's Dictionary of Quotations. With full Index. 

33 The Pocket Map of London, and 32,000 Cab Fares. 

34 Beeton's Recipe Book. Uniform with Beeton's Cookery. 

36 Walker and Webster's English Dictionary. 

37 HolidayTrips Round London. Profusely Illustrated. 

38 The Holiday Companion, and Tourist's Guide. 

39 Ward and Lock's Indestructible ABC. Illustrated. 
39AWard and Lock's Indestructible Alphabet. 

40 Doubts, Difficulties, and Doctrines. Granville. 

41 Beeton's Dictionary of Natural History. Illustrated. 

42 The Dictionary of Every-day Difficulties. 

43 Webster's Illustrated Spelling Book. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



POPUI.AR SHILLING MANUALS. 



Price 

V- 



Universal Series of Useful Books — continued. 

Beeton's Book of Songs. New and Improved Edition. 

The Art of Swimming. By Captain Webb. 

Elementary Carpentry and Joinery. 257 Illusts. 

Ornamental Carpentry and Joinery. 271 Illusts. 

General Building, Art and Practice. 224 Illusts. 

New South Wales and Queensland. Trollope. 

Victoria and Tasmania. By Anthony Trollope. 

South and West Australia. By Anthony Trollope. 

New Zealand. By Anthony Trollope. 

Cobbett's English Grammar. Annotated Edition. 

Cobbett's French Grammar. Annotated Edition. 

How to Pass Examinations; or, The Candidate's Guide. 

Professions and Occupations: A Guide for Youths. 

Common Blunders in Speaking and Writing. 

Ahn's First Lessons in German. 

Original Readings and Recitations. Pemberton. 

Westhall on Training. (Pocket size.) 

Moody's Talks on Temperance. (Also cloth, is» 6d.) 

Intoxicating Drinks: Their History and Mystery. 
By Dr. Kirton. (Also in cloth gilt, Is, 6d.) 

The Poetry of Flowers. With Illustrations. 

The Language of Flowers. With Illustrations. 

Watts's Short View of Scripture History. 

72,73 Moxon's Penny Readings. Ed. by Hood. 3 Vols. 

Sun, Moon and Stars: Elementary Astronomy. 

Tables of the Population of the United Kingdom. 

Manners of the Aristocracy. By One of Themselves. 

English Grammar for Self-Learners. L. T. Smith. 

The Improvement of Modern Dress. 

Shakespeare's Complete Works. 

The Book of Recreation and Amusement. 

The Magic Lantern : Its Construction and Management. 

Carpenter's Dictionary of Synonyms. 

Sound, Light and Heat. ByDuNMAN. 135 Illusts. 

Electricity and Magnetism. By Dunman. 165 Illusts. 

The Elementary Writing Book for Self-Instruction. 

TheProgressiveWriting Bookfor Self-lnstruction. 

The Model Writing Book for Self-Instruction. 

(Nos. 87, 88, 89, in One Volume, 2s.) 

The Guide to Health. Ed. by Geo. Black, M.B. Illust. 
The Household Doctor. Edited by Geo. Black, M. B. 

Limited. 



44 
48 

49 
50 
SI 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
60 
61 
62 

63 
64 
66 
67 

68 
69 
70 
71, 
74 
75 
76 

77 
78 

79 

80 
81 
82 
83 
84 
87 
88 

89 

90 

9^ 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, 



POPULAR SHILLING MANUALS. 



Price 

v- 



The Universal Series of Useful Books— conHnued. 

92 Lessons in French. By J. A. L. Kunz. (Also cloth, 2s.) 

93 Lessons in German. By H. W. Dulcken PhD 

(Also in cloth, 2s.) ' ' ' 

94 Our Nurses, and the Work they Have to Do. By 

I-. ^:Jr- 9',^^'^^ ^"'^ ^- ^- Barnett. (Also cloth, 2s.) 

95 Profitable Poultry Keeping. By Mrs. Eliot Tames. 

96 Fret-Sawing and Marquetry Cutting. By D B 

Adamson. Illustrated. (Also cloth, 2s.) 

97 Plays for Home Performance. By T. Maddison 

Morton, Author of " Box and Cox " 

98 The Enquirer's Oracle: What to Do and How to Do It 

99 Good Plain Cookery. By Mary Hooper 
100 French and English Dictionary. 
loi The Clerk's Instructor; or, How' to Excel in Business. 

102 The Good Housewife. With 160 Illustrations. 

103 The Family Advice Book. With 200 Illustrations. 

104 The Cookery Instructor. By Edith A. Barnett 

105 How to Make a Garden. Illustrated. 

106 Aids to Gardening. Illustrated. 

107 The Garden and Its Work. Illustrated. 

108 Greenhouse and Garden. Illustrated. 

109 How to Read Character in Handwriting. By 

Henry Frith. ^ 

no Select Plays for Amateurs. Illustrated 

111 Origmal Plays for the Drawing. Room. Illustrated. 

112 Playsfor Amateur Actors. Illustrated. 

113 Dr. Koch's Cure for Consumption 

114 Work among the Fallen. By the Chaplain of Mill- 

BANK. With Fntroduction by Archdeacon Farrar, 

115 HOW to Read Character in Faces, Features and 

Forms. By Henry Frith. 

116 Life of Parnell. By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. 

117 What to Do With Our Boys and Girls. By Sir Geo. 

Baden-Powell, Miss Clementina Black, and others. (Also 
cloth, 2».) 

118 Animal Life: Introduction to Zoology. Bettany 

119 Temperance Summer and Winter Drinks. 600 

Recipes. 

USEFUL HANDBOOKS. 

2/6 Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s, 6d. each. 

1 Indian Household Management. A Handbook for 

the Guidance of all Visiting India. By Mrs. Eliot James. 

2 Corn and Root Crops: How to Manage Them, must 

3 Country Sports by Flood and Field. A Handbook 

to every Branch of Rural Recreation. Illustrated. 

4 How to Choose and Manage a Farm with Pleasure 

and Profit. Illustrated. 

5 Trees, and How to Grow Them. A Manual of Tree- 
Culture. Illustrated. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



POPULAR USEFUL BOOKS. 



Price 



1/- 



2/6 



1/- 



3/6 
3/6 

2/6 



THE LONG LIFE SERIES. 

Edited by Gkorge Black, M.B. Edin. , Author of " First Aid in Accident 
and Sudden Illness," &c. Illustrated where necessary. 

Price Is. per Volume, neatly bound in cloth. 

1 Long Life, and How to Reach It. 

2 Eyesight, and How to Care for It. 

3 The Throat and the Voice. 

4 The Mouth and the Teeth. 

5 The Skin in Health and Disease. 

6 Brain Work and Overwork. 

7 Sick Nursing. 

8 The Young Wife's Advice Book. 

9 Sleep: How to Obtain It. 

10 Hearing, and How to Keep It. 

11 Sea Air and Sea Bathing. 

12 Health in Schools and Workshops. 

13 The Human Body: Its Structure and Design. 

The Saturday Review says: '* It is not too much to say of 
tJieni, as a series, tJiat tlie shilling invested betimes in each 
of them tnay be the means of saving many a guinea," 

LONDON MEDICAL SPECIALISTS: A Classified List of 1 
Names and Addresses. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d, 



BEETON'S LEGAL HANDBOOKS. 

Crown 8vo, in strong cloth boards, price Is. each. 
I Property. — 2 Women, Children, and Registration. — 3 Divorce 
and Matrimonial Causes.— 4 Wills, Executors, and Trustees. — 
5 Transactions in Trade, Securities, and Sureties. — 6 Partnership 
and Joint-Stock Companies. — 7 Landlord and Tenant, Lodgers, 
Rates and Taxes. — 8 Masters, Apprentices, Servants, and Working 
Contracts.— 9 Auctions, Valuations, Agency, Games and Wagers. — 
II Conveyance, Travellers, and innkeepers.— 12 Powers, Agree- 
ments, Deeds and Arbitrations. — 13 The County Court Handbook. 
— 14 The Householder's Law Book. — 15 The Licensing Laws. — 16 The 
Married Women's Property Act, 1882.— 17 The Bankruptcy Act, 
1883.— 18 The New Reform Act. 



ORGAN BUILDING FOR AMATEURS. A Guide for Home 

Workers. Containing Specifications, Designs and full Instructions for 
Making every portion of the Instrument. By Mark Wicks. With 
upwards of 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. 
" We have seldotn met xoith a more clear, concise and 
exhanstive little treatise than this." — Manchester Guardian. 

FISHING TACKLE: Its Materials and Manufacture. By 
John Harrington Keene, Author of " The Practical Fisherman," &c. 
With 254 Explanatory Diagrams. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. 
"All anglers tvho are wise will find a niche for it in 

the sanctnm. It is a positive pleasure to recommend so unassuming 

and meritorious a book." — Athen.(EUM. 

THE MAGIC LANTERN: Its Construction and Manage- 
ment. With 80 Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 28. 6d. 



WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 745 4 



iB 



S9 



V 



