
EMUS 



^r&refcs \Ti\Teme\s 




Ex Libris 
C. K. OGDEN 












MENUS MADE EASY. 



MENUS MADE EASY; 



OB 



HOW TO ORDER DINNER AND GIVE 
THE DISHES THEIR FRENCH NAMES. 



B7 

NANCY LAKE, 

AUTHOR OP " DAILI DIJiXEBS." 



THE EIGHTH EDITION, 
REVISED AND ENLAEGED. 



LONDON: 
FREDERICK WARNE & CO. 

AND NEW YORK. 

1894. 



INTRODUCTION. 



THIS publication is a humble endeavour to afford 
some assistance to ladies in the daily difficulty of 
what to order for dinner, and how to describe it. 

Cooks are not generally gifted with fertile imagi- 
nations, and are inclined to get into a routine 
which is a source of annoyance to those who desire 
a variety of dishes, if not for themselves, at least 
for their friends. Ladies often wish to be ready 
with suggestions of a change in the proposals of 
the cook, and even when in some measure provided 
with these, a second difficulty arises What are 
these dishes to be called? What are the correct 
technical names for them ? 

The French of cookery is a language of itself, 
and those who are not learned in it are often 
entirely at a loss when suddenly called on to write 
out a correct French menu with no other assistance 
than that of a dictionary. In carrying out this 

a 3 

1G97798 



INTRODUCTION. 



idea, lists of various dishes have been given, 
arranged in courses, with the French names, as 
well as the English equivalent or description. 

It is not intended to give recipes, such as would 
be adequate for the preparation of the dishes in 
the kitchen ; the dishes are only so far described 
as to enable the mistress to recognize them, giving 
a general idea of their ingredients and of their 
appearance when sent to table, 



PEEFACE TO EE VISED EDITION, 



IN this edition a considerable number of dishes 
have been added, and such alterations made as are 
demanded by the changes of fashion. 

Dishes of a very elaborate character have, for 
the most part, been rejected. They are often 
merely (what a botanist would term) " sports " 
from well-established originals, differing from them, 
perhaps, only in some details of fantastic decora- 
tion, the fashions of which are very short-lived, 
and are quickly succeeded by some newer fancy. 

With regard to decoration, it is suggested that 
very fanciful effects should be avoided. In a zeal 
for originality in this respect, the object of all 
decoration viz. to render the dish attractive 
seems occasionally to be forgotten, and a contrary 
effect is produced. Dishes are presented more fit 
to adorn a confectioner's window than to appear 
at a gentleman's table. 



viii PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION. 

Compounds of preserves and ices have actually 
been made to represent, with painful accuracy, 
boiled legs of mutton, boars' heads, etc., etc 

It is a mistake, too, to give fantastic names to 
the dishes. A menu is intended to convey in- 
formation, not to mislead or confuse ; and few 
people care to bestow sufficient attention to the 
subject to enjoy a succession of "surprises." 

Neither is a dish more generally appreciated for 
bearing an extravagant name even when under 
such a name as Sastartees a la Malay are revealed 
the homely aspects of curried veal! One is re- 
minded of the old saying, " Fine feathers do not 
make fine birds." 

Names given to quenelles, creams, etc., often 
have reference to the fancy moulds in which they 
are dressed. For instance, Petites cremes au 
Chevalier are creams steamed or set in moulds 
made to represent little horseshoes. So petites 
cignes, petits chevanx, papillons, etc., refer to the 
moulds. 

Even petites langues, petits jambonneaux, petits 
poulets, do not necessarily imply something made 
of tongue, ham, or chicken. 

Very few such names are introduced in these 
pages. They are obviously only the passing 
fashion of the moment, and do more credit to the 



PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION. ix 

skill of the ironmonger than to that of the 
cook. 

From the number of dishes described, it is hoped 
that it will be found easy to select such as shall 
be suited to the occasion for which they are re- 
quired, whether for homely dinners, or for more 
elaborate entertainments. Complete menus of the 
former class will be found in the author's " Daily 
Dinners," which, with the assistance here given, 
may be enlarged or varied without difficulty. 

In planning a dinner, ladies are reminded not 
to be content with dishes individually excellent, 
without regard to the contrast they bear to one 
another. 

Variety is required, not only in the material, 
but also in the style of dressing, and in the accom- 
panying sauces and garnishes. 

Light and dark dishes should as far as possible 
succeed one another. The same sauce should not 
appear twice. Several sorts of pastry should be 
avoided. "When cold dishes form part of the menu, 
they should be interspersed judiciously among the 
others. 

The author has adhered to her original inten- 
tion of giving descriptions rather than recipes. 
They will probably be sufficient, in most cases, to 
enable the mistress to give directions which a 



X PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION. 

fairly competent cook may carry out without the 
aid of a detailed recipe. But should they be found 
insufficient, recourse may always be had to some 
of the excellent cookery-books now published. 



CONTENTS. 



INTRODUCTION , , . , 

PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION , , 

CHAPTER I. 



HORS D'CEUVRES 



CHAPTER II. 
SOUPS OB POTAGES Clear and thick! 8 

CHAPTER III. 

FISH OR POISSONS Different modes of dressi ng Fish; Shell- 
Fish and Fish Entrees . . . . . 17 

CHAPTER IV. 

ENTREES Of Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lainb, Pork, Poultry, 

Game . . . . . . . . .46 

CHAPTER V. 

REMOVES OR RELEVES Of Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, 

Poultry, Game 106 

CHAPTER VI. 
ROASTS, OB ROTS 136 



xii CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER VII. 

PAGE 

VEGETABLES, OR LEJUMES, AND SALADS . . . ,13!) 

CHAPTER VIII. 

EGGS AND OMELETTES . , . . . . , 1G1 

CHAPTER IX. 

ENTREMETS Cakes and Pastry, Puddings, Fritters, Compotes 

of Fruit, Creams, Jellies . . . 1C6 

CHAPTER X. 
SAVOUET ENTREMETS , , , , , , . 201 

CHAPTER XL 

ICES, OB Gf-ACES, AND SORBETS , , , , .211 

CHAPTER XII. 

SAUCES AND GARNISHES , , , , . , .218 



INDEX . 227 



MENUS MADE EASY. 



CHAPTEE I. 

HOKS D'CEUVKES. 

A LAKGE dinner may begin with one of the following 

hors d'oeuvres : 

Huitres au naturel. Oysters, served in the shells, 
with lemon, and slices of brown bread and 
butter. 

Saucisson de Bologne, de Lyons, etc. Thin slices 
of Bologna, Lyons, or other sausage, garnished 
with small salad. 

Sardines a I'huile. Sardines in oil ; aux tomates, in 
tomato sauce. A la Royale, they are served 
on shred celery, seasoned with oil and vinegar, 
and are garnished with strips of beetroot, 
gherkins, and white of hard-boiled egg. 

Anchois. Anchovies ; a la Diable, devilled. A la 
Burlington, small fillets, seasoned with oil and 
vinegar, are rolled and served on slices of 
hard-boiled egg, garnished with shred lettuce ; 
garnished with capers and anchovy butter, 
they are a la Victoria. 



MENUS MADE EASY. 



\ 

Olives. Olives ; farcies, stuffed. A la Metropole, 
they are stuffed with green butter, set in little 
moulds of aspic, and served on slices of 
Bologna or other sausage, garnished with 
green butter. 

Caviar sur croutes. Caviar spread on buttered 
croutes. Garnished with prawns, it is called 
aux crevettes. As Blini au caviar, it is spread 
on buttered crumpets, well seasoned with 
lemon juice. 

Lax sur croutes. Lax on buttered croutes. 

If more variety is required, many of the dishes 

given in the chapter on savoury entremets will be 

found suitable. 

Hors d'oauvres are usually served in very small 

fancy plates, one to each person. 



CHAPTER II. 

SOUPS OB POTAGES. 

SOUPS may be divided into two classes : 1st. Clear, 
transparent soups, or consommes, of meat, game, or 
poultry, varying according to the floating garnish 
added to them. 2ndly. Thick soups, including 
purees of game, vegetables, etc. 

At a large dinner, when there are two soups, one 
is thick and the other clear. 
Consomme a la Julienne has a floating garnish of 

vegetables cut in strips. 

a la Xavier has a garnish of threads of vegetables. 
a la Jardiniere is garnished with vegetables cut 

in small fancy shapes. 
a la Brunoise has vegetables cut in small dice. 

This is sometimes called Potage Faubonne. 
a la Printaniere, or Potage printanier, has early 
summer vegetables cut in small shapes, with 
green peas and asparagus heads. 
a la Kursel is Printaniere soup with lettuces. 
a la Chijfonade has lettuces stamped out with a 
cutter, and peas. 



MENUS MADE EASY. 



Consomme a la D'Esclignac has a garnish of 

turnips, and small squares of custard. 
a la Royale and a VImperiale have small shapes 

of custard, which may be white, or coloured 

red and green. 
Printanier a la Royale has the vegetables as in 

"a la Printaniere," and the little pieces of 

custard as in "a la Eoyale." 
a la Portugaise is garnished with shreds of leeks, 

and French plums. 
a la Franqaise has a mixed vegetable garnish. 

With the addition of rice it is called a la 

Fleury. 
a la Clermont has little slices of onion fried 

brown. 

a la Crecy is garnished with shreds of carrots. 
a la Prince has turnips cut into little balls. 
a la Russe has shreds of carrot, celery and 

leeks. 

a la Dustan has haricot beans. 
a la D'Artois, or a la Saint-Germain, has a garnish 

of peas. 

aux chouxfarcis has stuffed Brussels sprouts. 
aux pommes olives has potatoes cut in the shape 

of olives. 
aux trois racines is garnished with carrots, turnips 

and celery. 
aux pointes d'asperges has asparagus heads. Any 

vegetable or herb may be used as a garnish, 

and the soup is named accordingly. 
aux ceufs poches has poached eggs. 



SOUPS OR POTAGES. 



Consomme aux prqfiterolles has little baked balls 

of a light " choux " paste. 
aux quenelles has very small quenelles. 
a la Komaine has little quenelles made of bread- 
crumbs. 

a la Baviere has quenelles made of semolina. 
a la Florentine has cheese quenelles. This is 

sometimes called a la Venitienne. 
a la Parmentier has quenelles made of potatoes. 
aux epinards has quenelles made with spinach. 
auxpetitsjambonneaux'h&B little quenelles of ham. 
au macaroni has a garnish of macaroni; au 

vermicelle has vermicelli. Grated Parmesan 

should be served with these soups. 
aux nouilles has poached strips of German paste 

made of flour, eggs, butter, etc. 
aux pates d'ltalie, sometimes called Potage aux 

lazagnes, has pieces of Italian paste. 
a la semoule, au tapioca, and au riz are respectively 

garnished with semolina, tapioca, and rice. 
aux huitres is garnished with oysters. 
aux oeufs files is garnished with an egg custard 

in threads, made by passing it through a 

colander. 
a la Poissonniere is garnished with quenelles of 

fish. 

a la Montglas has quenelles made of liver farce. 
a la Sevigne has little shapes of chicken cream, 
a la Prince de Galles has little pieces of chicken 

enveloped in forcemeat, pieces of custard cut 

in the same shape, and asparagus points. 



MENUS MADE EASY. 



Consomme a la Colbert has a garnish of lettuce, 

celery, Jerusalem artichokes and button onions. 
a la Jerusalem, or a la Palestine, has Jerusalem 

artichokes cut into very small balls. 
a la macedoine is garnished with several kinds of 

vegetables. 
a la Nivernaise has vegetables cut in thin small 

shapes, Italian paste, and quenelles cut in 

slices. Another soup which bears the same 

name is garnished with quenelles made of a 

puree of carrots. 
a la Duchesse is garnished with little balls of 

a light cheese paste and small shapes of 

vegetables. 
a la Napoleon has tiny rissoles in paste boiled 

in the consomme, 
a la Lelie has shreds of chicken, almonds, carrot 

and tarragon. 
a I'lnnocent has shreds of chicken and almonds, 

with quenelles, and little shapes of custard. 
a la Pompadour has little shapes of vegetables 

and custard of several different colours, 
a la Bernhardt has little slices of marrow, tiny 

quenelles, and watercress. 
a la Grande Duchesse has little anchovy quenelles 

and cheese quenelles, and shreds of chicken 

and tongue. 
a V Alexandra has small round slices of chicken, 

and cherries. 
a la Christina is garnished with chestnuts and 

cherries. 



SOUPS OR POTAGES. 



Consomme a la Valetta has slices of Tangerine 

oranges and shreds of the peel. 
a la D' Orleans has little quenelles coloured green, 

red and white. 
a la Rachel has green, red and black quenelles, 

made with tarragon, lobster and truffle. 

Another soup of this name is garnished with 

little shapes of steamed white and yolk of 

egg, carrot, turnip and French beans. 
a la Eosiere has little cheese quenelles and ham 

quenelles. 
a la Chasseur has little quenelles of game. A 

clear game soup is also called by this name. 
a la Due de York is a clear game soup, garnished 

with quenelles of game, 
a la Princesse is a clear chicken soup, garnished 

with vegetables cut in fancy shapes. 
de poisson is a clear fish soup. 
a la Dufferin is a clear curried fish soup. It is 

served with rice and little round slices of fillets 

of soles. 

a rindienne is clear Mulligatawny soup. 
Potage Baraquine is garnished with tapioca, and 

strips of chicken and truffles. 
croutes au pot has toasted crusts. 
de riz au gras is Brunoise or Jardiniere soup with 

the addition of rice. 
Bouillon is gravy soup, or broth. It may be 

served au riz with rice, or a la Colbert with 

poached eggs. 

The following soups can be either clear or thick : 
Potage a la tortue. Turtle soup. 



MENUS MADE EASY. 



Potage a lafausse tortue. Mock turtle. 
aux abatis d'oie. Giblet. 
aux queues de bosuf. Ox-tail. Thick ox-tail soup 

is called queues de boeuf a VAnglaise. 
tete de veau. Calf's head. 
aux grouses. Grouse. 
aux perdreaux. Partridge. 
aux faisans. Pheasant. 
aux becasses. Woodcock. 
au lapereau. Rabbit. 
au levraut or a la lievre. Hare. 
a la venaison. Venison. 
Of the thick soups there are also : 
Potage queues de boeuf a VIndienne. A curry soup 

with pieces of ox-tail in it. 
Mulligatawny. Curry soup. With this and all 
soups "a 1'Indienne," rice is served on a 
separate dish. 

a la Hesse. Ox-cheek soup. 
aux rognons. Kidney soup. Ox-kidney soup is 

called Potage a la Sydney, 
queues de veau. Calf s-tail soup. A VIndienne, 

it is curried. 
aux pieds de veau. Calf's-feet soup. With the 

addition of barley, it is called a la Balmoral, 
tete de veau a VIndienne. Calfs-head soup, 

curried. 

aux queues d'agneau. Lamb's-tail soup. 
a Vanguille. Eel soup. 
a la Bisque. Crab soup. 
Bisque a la Normande. Shrimp soup. 



SOUPS OR POTAGES. 9 

Potage Bisque de liomard. Lobster soup. 
a la bisque d'ecrevisses. Crayfish soup. 
aux liuitres. White oyster soup. 
Dupoise. Mussel soup. 
aux raviolis. Game stock with small pieces of 

forcemeat wrapped in paste. 
a la Victoria. White soup with barley or rice. 
a la Eeine, or a la Princesse. Chicken puree with 

cream, garnished with quenelles of chicken, or 

with dice of fried bread. 
a la chasseur. Game soup, garnished with pieces 

of the game. 
aux herbes printanieres. White soup with shred 

lettuces and other vegetables. 
a la Russe. Brown soup with vegetables and 

round balls of sausage meat. 
a Vltalienne. Fowl stock with puree from vege- 
tables, anchovies, etc., garnished with small 

pieces of the fowl, 
a la Regence is a game soup with barley, and 

hard-boiled yolks of eggs cut in small pieces. 
a la Frankfort is a chicken soup garnished with 

asparagus points. 
a la Prince de Galles is mock-turtle soup with 

quenelles. 

a la Castelaine is a brown soup made of beef. 
a VAurore is egg soup of stock with yolks of 

eggs- 

a VAndalouse is a fish soup with puree of onions 
and tomatoes, garnished with pieces of cray- 
fish or prawns. 



10 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Potage a la Provengale or Bouillabaisse is a fish soup 

with shred Portugal onions, garnished with 

fillets of several kinds of fish. 
a la Comtesse. White soup of veal stock and 

sweetbreads, with dice of fried bread. 
a la Chanoincsse, White soup with quenelles of 

fish, and mackerel roe cut in small square 

pieces. 
a la Bonne Femme. White soup with yolks of 

eggs and shreds of green vegetables. 
a la Colbert. White soup with poached eggs. 
a la Milanaise is a white soup with grated cheese. 

It may be garnished with macaroni, or with 

vegetables cut in shreds. 
a la Hollandaise is a white soup with cream and 

yolks of eggs. 
a la Bomaine is a white soup garnished with 

little balls of rice. 
a la Duchesse is a white soup garnished with 

quenelles. 
a la Moderne is a white soup with shreds of fried 

lettuce. This is often called a I'Imperatrice. 
a la Maltaise is a rich white soup, garnished with 

slices of oranges, and shreds of capsicums, 

chillies and of orange peel. 
a la Florenza is a white soup with macaroni and 

grated cheese. 
Creme a la Eoyale is a white soup with little dice 

shapes of cheese custard. 
Creme a la Zingari is a white soup garnished 

with red, black and yellow quenelles. 



SOUPS OR POTAGES. 1L 

Potage Jardiniere a la Hollandaise is white soup 

with a Jardiniere garnish. 
Cockie leekie is made of pheasant or chicken with 

leeks. French plums may be added to it. 
a la Friar Tuck is a chicken soup, garnished 

with pieces of the chicken and shreds of 

leeks. 
au sagou is sago soup ; au tapioca tapioca soup. 

Garnished with strips of chicken, tongue and 

truffles, it is Potage a la Gouffe. 
vermicelle a la Hollandaise is vermicelli soup with 

cream and yolks of eggs. 
Pilau de riz is rice boiled in stock 
au mouton. Mutton broth served with the 

mutton in it. 

a VIrlandaise is mutton broth with potatoes, 
a I'Ecossaise. Scotch broth of mutton with 

barley, chopped parsley, and vegetables cut 

in dice. Sheep's-head soup is also called by 

this name. 
Hoche-pot. Hodge-podge soup, of mutton with 

vegetables. 
de riz a la Turque. Mutton broth served with 

rice. 
Pot-au-feu. Uncleared stock served with the 

vegetables in it. 
Livonien. Puree of vegetables and rice, with 

cream and yolks of eggs. 
Solferino. Stock with young vegetables, puree 

of tomatoes, chopped parsley, etc. 
a la Grecque. Pea soup and Jardiniere soup 



12 MENUS MADE EASY. 

with pieces of braised mutton. Another 

Potage a la Grecque is a fish soup with 

tomatoes, garnished with oysters. 
Potage a la Bagration. White fish soup with curry 

powder, crayfish tails, chopped sole, and 

vegetables. 
anas filets de soles. Veal or fish stock with fillets 

of sole. 
a la Poissonniere, or Creme de poisson. White 

fish soup. 

Bisque au riz is a shellfish soup with rice. 
a la Nimoise. Fish stock with yolks of eggs. 
a la Brisse. Chicken soup with small shapes 

of vegetable cream, made of a puree of the 

vegetable with eggs. 
a la Marechale is a bread soup garnished with 

quenelles of crayfish or shrimps. 
a la Tyrolienne is barley soup garnished with 

carrots. 
a VAllemande is white sago or tapioca soup with 

Brunoise vegetables. 
a la Polonaise is a potato soup with cheese and 

macaroni, 
a la Pluche is a potato soup with shreds of 

carrots. 
a la Conservative is a puree of potatoes with 

cream and yolks of eggs, garnished with little 

red and white quenelles. It is sometimes 

made in the same way with a puree of carrots. 
a la Boston is made with tomatoes, potatoes, and 

okra. 



SOUPS OR POTAGES. 13 

Potage a la Flamande is a white vegetable soup. 

a la Jiibile is made of a puree of tomatoes and 
mushrooms. 

a la Dauphine is a puree of peas and tomatoes, 
garnished with little strips of ham and of 
vegetables. 

a la Modena is a spinach soup with eggs. 

a la St. Louis is a puree of white vegetables with 
shreds of carrot. 

d'amandes a la Colbert is a white almond soup, 
garnished with poached eggs. 

au macaroni. Macaroni soup. With the ad- 
dition of rice, it is called a la Turque ; or with 
cream and yolks of eggs, a la Hollandaise. 
Garnished with little pieces of game, it is 
a la Chasseur. 

Besides these there are the Purees : 
Puree de gibier. Puree of game. 
Puree de lapereaux. Puree of rabbit. 
Puree de grouses. Puree of grouse. 
Puree de volaille. Puree of fowl. It may be served 
a la Milanaise, garnished with macaroni ; or 
a la Napolitaine, with the addition of pounded 
almonds, and a garnish of pieces of chicken 
and tongue. 

And the Vegetable Purees : 

Puree de pommes de terre. Potato puree. This is 
often called Potage Parmentier, on account of 
Parmentier having introduced potatoes into 
France. It may be curried and served a 
VJndienne; or aux quenelles, garnished with 



14 MENUS MADE EASY. 

quenelles ; a la St. Germain, with peas ; a la 

Milanaise, with macaroni. 
Puree de petits pois or pois verts. Puree of green 

peas. This can also be called Potage a la 

D'Artois. Served with whole peas in it, it is 

Potage a la St. Germain. 

Potage a la Palestine. Puree of Jerusalem 'arti- 
chokes. 

Potage a la Crecy. Puree of carrots. 
Puree d'asperges. Puree of asparagus. It can be 

served a la Princesse with the addition of 

rice. 

Puree de celeris. Pure'e of celery. 
Puree de marrons. Puree of chestnuts. 
Potage a la Bretonne. Pure'e of turnips. As Puree 

de navets a la Frangaise, it is served with fried 

bread. 
Puree de choux-fieurs. Puree of cauliflower. This 

soup with the addition of tapioca is called 

Potage a la Chartreuse. 
Puree de concombres. Puree of cucumbers. 
Potage a la Soubise. Pure'e of onions. 
Puree d'epinards, or Potage vert-pre. Puree of 

spinach. 
Puree de tomates, or Potage a VAmericaine. Puree 

of tomatoes. Served a f la Mancelle, it is 

garnished with chestnuts. 
Puree de potirons. Puree of vegetable marrow. 
Potage a la Conde. Puree of red haricots. 
Potage Pomeranienne, or a la Dustan. Puree of 

white haricots. 



SOUPS OR POTAGES. 15 

Potage a la Chantilly. Puree of lentils. 

Potage a la Stamboul. Puree of rice and tomatoes. 

Puree d'artichauts. Puree of artichokes. 

Puree d'oseitte. Puree of sorrel. 

Puree defeves. Puree of beans. 

Puree de pois. Puree of dried peas. 

Puree de chicoree. Puree of endive. 

Potage Crecy a la Chantilly. Puree of carrots and 

lentils. 
Puree de marram a la Mancelle. Puree of chestnuts 

with puree of game. 

When made with the addition of cream, these 
purees are often called Creme d'artichauts, etc., 
instead of Puree. 
Potage a la creme d'orge. Cream of barley soup. 

Garnished with quenelles of chicken, it is 

called a la Marie Louise, 
a la creme de riz. Cream of rice. With the 

addition of Parmesan, it may be called a la 

Milton. Garnished with asparagus heads, it 

is Potage a VArgenteuil. 
a la creme de tapioca. Cream of tapioca. 
a la creme d'avoine. Cream of oatmeal. 
When chervil is added to a soup, a la peluche, or 
a la chiffbnade, de cerfeuil may be appended to the 
name. With poached eggs, it is called a la 
Colbert, or with mixed vegetables, a la Paysanne. 

If maigre soups are required, Potage Julienne, 
and many of the vegetable soups, may be made 
without stock. The following are also sug- 
gested : 



16 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Potage au lait d'amandes is made of rice milk and 

almond milk. 

aux noix de coco. Cocoanut soup. 
a la Paysanne. Mixed vegetable soup. 
a la Savoyards. Vegetable soup, poured over 

slices of bread sprinkled with grated cheese. 
a la Monaco. Milk with yolks of eggs, poured 

over toast. 



CHAPTEE III. 

FISH OR POISSONS. 

WHEN fish is plainly boiled, the French name 
for it is given on the Menu, with the name of 
the sauce served with it; as Turbot, sauce Hol- 
landaise, for boiled turbot served with Hollandaise 
sauce in a sauce-boat. 

BARBEL. 

Barbeau, or Barbillon, grille is broiled, and should 

be served with anchovy sauce; or sauce pi- 

quante, with piquante sauce. 
au Parmesan pieces of barbel with Bechamel 

sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated 

Parmesan, and browned. 
a Vetuvee is boiled in wine, and served in the 

sauce with flour and butter. 
au court-bouillon is boiled in a bouillon of wine 

and water with onions, cloves, herbs and lemon 

peel. 

BASS. 

Bar, sauce au beurre is boiled or broiled, and 
served with butter sauce. 

c 



18 MENUS MADE EASY 



BREAM. 

Breme grille is broiled, and served with brown 

caper sauce. 
au vin blanc is boiled in white wine sauce. 

BRILL. 

Barbue aux cdpres is boiled and served with melted 

butter and capers ; a la Hollandaise, it is served 

with Hollandaise sauce ; sauce homard, with 

lobster sauce. 
a la puree de cdpres is served with a sauce of 

melted butter, puree of capers, gherkins and 

spinach. 

a VEspagnole served in a rich brown sauce. 
a la Sicilienne served in a white sauce with 

lemon juice, and shreds of lemon peel and 

tarragon. 
a la Ravigote baked, and served in green Kavi- 

gote sauce with capers. 
a la Conti cooked with oil, stock, white wine 

and herbs, 
a la Sainte-Menehould. Pieces of brill with white 

sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and grated 

Parmesan, and browned. 
Filets de larbue a la Juive. Fillets of brill cut in 

two or more pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. 

Served with Hollandaise sauce. 
a la Provenqale are fried fillets served in anchovy 

sauce, garnished with stuffed olives. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 19 

Filets de barbue en matelote are fried fillets dressed 
on a border of mashed potatoes, with Matelote 
sauce. 
They are also dressed au gratin, a la meuniere, a 

Vlmperatrice, and in many of the ways given for 

turbot. 

CARP. 

Carpe/rife is split and fried. 
a la maitre d'hotel is grilled and served with 

Maitre d'hotel butter. 
a Vltalienne stewed in Italian sauce. 
aux fines herbes served in a brown sauce with 

chopped mushrooms and herbs. 
farcie stuffed and baked. It may be served 

with a brown sauce. 
a la biere boiled in beer with bacon, onions, 

carrots, etc. 
a la Marquise stewed, and served in a white 

sauce with whipped cream, chopped gherkins, 

and capers. 
a la Chambord larded, stuffed with forcemeat, 

boiled in court-bouillon and browned. 
a la Mariniere is saute with butter, breadcrumbs, 

chives, garlic, etc. 
au bleu is pickled. 

Coquilles de laitances de carpe is carp roe scalloped. 
Casserole de laitances. Carp roe stewed in stock 

with wine and herbs, and served in the sauce 

with butter, flour and lemon juice. 



20 MENUS MADE EASY. 

CHAR. 
Ombre Chevalier en terrine is potted char. 

COD. 

Cabillaud a la Hollandaise is served with Hol- 

landaise sauce; a I'ltalienne, with Italian 

sauce. 
a la Victoria served in a Cardinal sauce with 

anchovies, 
a la Portugaise slices dipped in flour and fried ; 

served in tomato sauce with anchovy, etc. 
a la Grand Hotel slices cooked in wine with 

butter and lemon juice, and served in the 

sauce, garnished with shreds of parsnips and 

little sprigs of parsley. 
a VIndienne is fried or grilled, and served with 

curry sauce. 
a la Garonne pieces of cod with oil, chopped 

capers, anchovies and parsley; covered with 

breadcrumbs and browned. 
a la creme pieces of cod in Be'chamel sauce, 

covered with breadcrumbs and browned. 
farci stuffed and baked. 
grille a la Colbert broiled, and served on Maitre 

d'hotel butter, with Maitre d'hotel sauce. 
recrepi, sauce aux huitres crimped, and served 

with oyster sauce; aux moules, with mussel 

sauce. 
en fricassee a la Suede is a fricassee of cod in 

mayonnaise sauce with horseradish. It is 



FISH OR POISSONS. 21 

served in an ornamental border of mashed 
potatoes. 

Filets de cabillaud a VAurore are little slices broiled 
and served with egg sauce. Served in a 
cheese sauce, they are a la Morny. 

Morue au beurre noir. Salt cod, boiled, and served 
with black-butter sauce. Served with egg 
sauce, it is called a la Capucine. 
au gratin. Pieces of salt cod, with a sauce of 
butter, flour and cream ; sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs, grated cheese and melted butter, and 
browned. 

Brandade de Morue. Salt cod, in small pieces, with 
oil, melted butter, parsley and garlic ; stirred 
to a cream. 

DABS. 

Served as Limandes /rites they are fried. 

EELS. 

Anguilles au soleil are cut up, stewed in wine and 
water with vegetables, etc. ; the pieces rolled 
in the sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. 

en ragout are stewed in the same way, and served 
in the sauce with the addition of wine. Served 
in oyster sauce, they are a la Parisienne. 

a la broche are larded and roasted. 

a, la minute boiled, and served with maitre 
d'hotel sauce and potatoes. 

a la Poulette stewed with broth, wine, butter, 
onions, mushrooms, etc. Served with yolks 
of eggs and lemon juice added to the sauce. 



22 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Anguilles a I'Anglaise are small slices wrapped in 

paste, or dipped in batter, and fried. Served 

with anchovy sauce. 
a la Tartare small pieces, breadcrumbed and 

fried ; served in Tartare sauce. 
a la Suffren larded with strips of gherkins and 

anchovies, braised with vinegar and herbs, and 

served in tomato sauce. 
en mayonnaise a la Dieppe are pieces stuffed with 

forcemeat, rolled, covered with Mayonnaise 

sauce, and served on a border of green aspic 

with salad in the centre. 

en matelote stewed, and served in Matelote sauce. 
Filets d'anguilles en paupiettes are pieces stuffed, 

rolled, breadcrumbed and fried. 
a V aspic are pieces of stewed eels set in a mould 

of aspic. 

EEL-POUT. 

Lottes en matelote are stewed in wine with mush- 
rooms and herbs, and served in the sauce. 

a la Parisienne stewed, and served in white 
sauce with oysters. 

a I'ltalienne fried, and served with Italian 
sauce. 

a la Prussienne boiled in a sauce of stock, oil, 
champagne, etc. 

FLOUNDERS. 

Carrelets frits are fried. Served with tomato 

sauce, they are called a la Orly. 
grilles broiled. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 23 

Souche de carrelets. A water souche of flounders 
boiled with strips of carrot and turnip, sprigs 
of parsley, etc. Tench, perch, eels, and many 
other fish are dressed in this way. 

GUDGEON, 

Goujons/n'te are fried. 

GURNARD. 

Grondin/arci aufour is stuffed and baked. 
Filets de grondins en matelote. Fillets cut in halves, 
breadcrumbed and fried ; served on a border, 
with Matelote sauce. 

a Vltalienne are saute, and served with Italian 
sauce ; a la Maitre d'hotel, with maitre d'hotel 
sauce. 

a la Venitienne are served in a white sharp sauce 
with chopped tarragon. 

HADDOCK. 

Merluche grillee is broiled. Served with tarragon 

butter, it is a I'estragon. 
a la Hollandaise served with Hollandaise sauce ; 

a la maitre d'hotel with maitre d'hotel sauce. 
sauce aux osufs boiled and served with egg sauce. 
farcie stuffed, baked, and served with brown 

gravy. 
a la Syrienne served in a brown sharp sauce 

with chopped gherkins, 
a la Viennoise served in a white saiice with 

chopped ham and tarragon. 



24 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Filets de merluche a la tartare are fried fillets served 
with Tartare sauce. 

a I'Indienne are served with curry sauce. 

a la Eoyale are saute, and dressed in a crown, 
covered with anchovy sauce, and garnished 
with fillets of anchovies and hard-boiled egg. 

HAKE. 

Merlus a VIndienne is cut in slices, broiled, and 
served in curry sauce. 

HALIBUT. 

Fletan a la Morny. Small fillets served in a cheese 
sauce. Hake and halibut may be dressed like 
cod; but, as they are rather coarse fish, a 
highly seasoned sauce should be selected. 

HERRINGS. 

Harengs grilles, sauce moutarde, are broiled, and 

served with mustard sauce. 
a la creme boiled, and served with a sauce of 

cream, butter and lemon juice. 
a la Bohemienne are served in a brown sauce 

with red currant jelly. 
au jus d' oranges served with orange sauce. 
farcis are boned, stuffed and baked. 
en matelote are stewed with herbs, etc. 
en paupiettes are boned, rolled and fried. 
en caisses are baked in paper cases. 
au gratin baked with herbs and covered with 

breadcrumbs. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 25 

Harengs a la Mariniere boned, rolled, boiled, and 
served on toast, with the roes cut in small 
pieces and fried. 

fumes a la Bruxelloise are fillets of smoked 
herrings broiled in a paper case with a layer 
of stuffing between them. Served with pieces 
of lemon. 

For Croquettes de harengs they are broiled, made 
into balls with mashed potatoes, and fried. 
They can also be made into little cakes, or 
petits pains, and served a la Tartare with 
Tartare sauce. 

JOHN DORY. 

Jean Dore, or Saint Pierre, en ravigote is served 

in Ravigote sauce. 
a la cremiere is boiled in milk and water, and 

served with a sauce of cream, butter and 

lemon juice. 
a la puree de crevettes served in a puree of 

shrimps with white sauce. 
a la bateliere served in white sauce with button 

onions, mushrooms and essence of anchovy. 
en matelote mariniere served in Matelote sauce 

with oysters. 
a V Orleannaise is stuffed with fish forcemeat, 

braised, and served in Cardinal sauce with 

tarragon vinegar, and slices of gherkins and 

beetroot. 

It is dressed au gratin, a la Vatel, a la Parisienne, 
etc., in the same way as turbot. 



26 MENUS MADE EASY. 



LAMPREY. 

Lamproie a I'ltalienne is filleted, and stewed in 

wine with oil, onions, herbs and lemon juice. 

au supreme is cut up, saute, and served in a 

sauce of red wine with truffles. 
They are also dressed in many of the ways given 
for eels. 

MACKEREL. 

Maquereaux, sauce fenouil are boiled and served 

with fennel sauce. 
a la maitre d'hotel broiled, and served in Maitre 

d'hotel sauce. Fillets are also dressed in this 

way. 
aux censes are broiled, and served with cherry 

sauce. 

a la Normande are stuffed and baked. 
a la Flamande stuffed with chopped shallots 

and chives, butter and lemon juice; and 

broiled. 
grilles au beurre noir grilled, and served with 

black-butter sauce. 

aux groseilks vertes stuffed with green goose- 
berries, pieces of herring, etc. ; boiled, and 

served in green gooseberry sauce. 
Filets de maquereaux a la Venitienne fillets saute, 

and served in a rich brown sauce with chopped 

tarragon and truffles. 
a la Orly fried fillets served with tomato sauce. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 27 



RED MULLET. 

Rougets en caisse are broiled in papers, sprinkled 

with chopped parsley and oil. 
en papillotes are baked in papers and served with 

Italian sauce. Served with white Eavigote 

sauce, they are called a la Eavigote. 
aux fines herbes cooked with butter, wine, Harvey 

sauce and anchovy. Served in the sauce with 

chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallot, and 

lemon juice. 

sauce verte served with green sauce. 
a la Claudine served in a brown sauce with 

anchovies, mushrooms and capers. 
a la Metropole stewed in white wine with herbs, 

and served in the sauce thickened with butter 

and flour. 
a la maltre d'hotel served in Maitre d'hotel 

sauce. They are dressed in this way in 

fillets. 
Filets de rouyets a la Montesquieu. Fillets cut in 

halves, saute in butter with wine, lemon juice, 

etc., and served in the sauce with melted 

butter and milk. 

GREY MULLET. 

Mulets au beurrefondu are broiled, and served with 
melted-butter sauce. They are also served an 
vert, with green sauce; or sauce pimcnt, with 
capsicum sauce. 



28 MENUS MADE EASY. 

PERCH. 

Perches a VEspagnole are baked and served in a 

brown sauce. 
Filets de perches a la Homaine are fillets seasoned 

with oil and herbs, fried, and served with 

tomato sauce. 

They may be dressed in the same way as carp, 
tench, and trout ; and also in a water souche. 

PIKE. 

Brocket farci is stuffed and baked. Served with 
Matelote sauce, it is called en matelote. 

sauce au beurre d'anchois boiled, and served 
with anchovy sauce; aux cdpres, with caper 
sauce. 

au bleu pickled. 

a la Eusse is served with horseradish sauce. 

PILCHARDS. 

Pelamides are dressed in the ways suggested for 
herrings. 

PLAICE. 

Pile au gratin is baked in brown sauce, covered 

with breadcrumbs, 
a la Portugaise is stuffed and baked ; served in 

tomato sauce with slices of Spanish onions 

and tomatoes. 
a VAmericaine is stuffed with a tomato stuffing, 

baked, and served in tomato sauce. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 29 

Filets de plie aux fines herbes are fillets served in 

fine-herbs sauce. 

a V Airibassade are fillets covered with a red fish 
sauce, sprinkled with Parmesan and browned. 
Petits filets de plie a la tartar e are little rolled fillets, 

fried, and served with Tartare sauce. 
They are also dressed in the same way as 
soles. 

SALMON. 

Saumon a VEcossaise is crimped and boiled. 
a la Hollandaise served with Hollandaise sauce. 
a la Beyrout slices broiled in papers, and 

served in anchovy sauce with vinegar, Harvey, 

chopped onions and mushrooms. 
a la creme d'anchois slices served in anchovy 

sauce. 
a la Cardinal. A whole fish stuffed with fish 

forcemeat, braised, and served in Cardinal 

sauce. 

a la Eegence. A small fish covered with force- 
meat, to which chopped trufHes are added ; 

served in Perigueux sauce. 
en matelote served in Matelote sauce. 
en kari a la Durand is curried and served with 

rice. 
Tranche, or Darne, de saumon grillee is a grilled 

slice of salmon. 
Filets de saumon a VIndienne are fried fillets/served 

with curry sauce. 
a la Marechale fillets saute, and served in 



30 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Aurora sauce, garnished with shrimps or 

oysters. 
Filets de saumon a la Tartare are fried fillets, 

served with Tartare sauce; a la Eavigote, 

with Eavigote sauce. 

a la Maintenon fillets broiled in paper cases. 
a la Suede fillets baked in paper cases with 

tomato sauce, and garnished with cucumber, 

beetroot and tarragon. 
a la Eichelieu fillets served on a border of 

salmon forcemeat, masked with a puree of 

tomatoes, and garnished with crayfish and 

truffles. 
Mazarine de saumon is a steamed mould of salmon 

forcemeat. It may be garnished with prawns, 

or served with Cardinal sauce. As Pain de 

saumon a la Russe, it is served cold with horse- 
radish sauce. 
Mayonnaise de saumon. Pieces of cold salmon, 

with lettuce or other salad, and Mayonnaise 

sauce. 
Cotelettes de saumon en Mayonnaise are cutlet moulds 

of salmon forcemeat, served cold with salad 

and Mayonnaise sauce. 
Chaudfroid de saumon a la Tartare is cold salmon 

served in Tartare sauce. 
a V Alexandra. Little slices of salmon on croutes 

of fried bread or light pastry, dressed on a 

salad border with a whipped Mayonnaise 

cream in the centre. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 31 

SHAD. 

Alose a la Maitre d'hotel is baked, and served with 
Maitre d'hotel sauce. It is also dressed in 
fillets, saute. 

SKATE. 
Raie a la Maitre d'hotel is boiled and served with 

Maitre d'hotel sauce; au beurre noir, with 

black butter sauce. 

a la Orly fried and served with tomato sauce. 
a la Hollandaise served with Hollandaise sauce. 
a la Genoise served in a brown sauce with 

anchovy and chopped parsley. 
a la noisette served in butter sauce with the 

pounded liver of the skate, and Tarragon 

vinegar. 
aux fines herbes cooked with milk, butter, flour, 

lemon, herbs, etc., and served with fine-herbs 

sauce. 

Skate is obtained crimped and filleted. It is 
never served whole. 

SMELTS. 

Eperlans a la Juive are breadcrumbed, fried, and 

served without sauce. Served with anchovy 

sauce in a sauce-boat, they are called a VAn- 

glaise ; or with tomato sauce, a la Orly. 

en ragout stewed in white stock with herbs and 

wine. 

au gratin baked with melted butter and dried 
herbs, covered with breadcrumbs. 



32 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Buisson d'eperlans breadcrumbed and fried with 
their tails in their mouths. Melted butter 
should be served with them. 

SOLES. 

Soles frites a VAnglaise are breadcrumbed and fried. 

au gratin covered with brown sauce and bread- 
crumbs, and baked. 

a la Normande stewed and served in a rich 
brown sauce with oysters. 

a la Portugaise are dressed in the same way as 
plaice. 

a la creme d'anchois boiled and served in a 
white sauce, with anchovy and whipped cream. 

a Vaurore stuffed and baked ; served in a white 
sauce, with grated Parmesan and hard-boiled 

egg- 
a la Cardinal stuffed, baked, and served in 

Cardinal sauce. 
a la Colbert stuffed with Maitre d'hotel butter, 

and served with Maitre d'hotel sauce, 
a la Maitre d'hdtel served in Maitre d'hotel 

sauce. The same dish may be made with 

fillets. 
a la Trouville cut in two or three pieces, and 

cooked with butter, breadcrumbs, chopped 

onions and cider. 
Filets de soles au gratin. Fillets breadcrumbed and 

fried; covered with brown sauce and bread- 
crumbs, and baked, 
a Vltalienne are saute, and served in white 



FISH OR POISSONS. 33 

Italian sauce. They are served a la Hoi- 
landaise, in Hollandaise sauce ; or en Ravigote, 
in Kavigote sauce. 

Filets de soles en matelote are cut in halves, bread- 
crumbed and fried; dressed in a crown, with 
Matelote sauce in the centre. 

a la Vienne are rolled, stuffed with fish force- 
meat, and served with anchovy sauce. If 
served in a white sauce, they are called a la 
Beine. 

a la Bohemienne are folded fillets served in a 
white sauce, garnished with truffle, hard-boiled 
egg, lobster coral, and chopped parsley. 

a la Due de Naples are served cold, masked 
alternately with green and white Mayonnaise 
aspic, on an aspic border with salad in the 
centre, and are garnished with cucumber and 
hard-boiled white of egg. 

a la Dauphine are rolled, stuffed, breadcrumbed 
and fried, and served with lobster sauce. If 
stuffed with oysters, etc., and served with 
oyster sauce, they are called a la RotJischild ; 
or stuffed with lobster sauce and served with 
tomato sauce, a la Chesterfield. 

a la Eouennaise are coated with whiting force- 
meat coloured with lobster spawn, and served 
with white Matelote sauce. 

They may also be served en caisses, in little 
cases ; or cold en Mayonnaise, with salad and 
Mayonnaise sauce ; or en aspic, set in moulds 
of aspic. 

D 



34 MENUS MADE EASY. 

SPRATS. 

Esprots a VAnglaise are fried. 

au gratin are baked -with herbs and breadcrumbs. 
a la Diable are devilled. 

STURGEON. 

Esturgeon en fricandeau is cut in thick slices, 
larded, stewed with bacon and mushrooms, 
and browned. 

a la Eoyale tied up in the form of a bolster, 
covered with forcemeat, and ornamented with 
pieces, of truffle, tongue, etc. 
Darne d'esturgeon au four is a baked slice of 

sturgeon. 

braisee is larded and braised. 
grillee sauce piquante is broiled, and served with 

Piquante sauce. 

a la Bourguignotte is served with Bourguignotte 
sauce. 

TENCH. 

Tanche/rite is fried. 
sur le gril is grilled. 
au court-bouillon boiled in court-bouillon, and 

served with caper sauce. 
farcie stuffed and baked. 

TROUT. 

Truites au Ueu are turned blue with boiling vinegar, 
and foiled in it with wine and vegetables; 
served with oil and vinegar. 
frites are fried. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 35 

Truites en ragout are stewed. 
a la Beyrout are dressed in the same way as 

salmon. 
a la Maitre d'hdtel served with Maitre d'hotel 

sauce. 
a la Chambord cooked in marinade sauce, and 

garnished with crayfish, quenelles of fish, and 

sweetbreads. 
a la hussarde stuffed with butter and herbs; 

broiled, and served with Poivrade sauce. 
a la Perigueux stuffed with a truffle stuffing, 

and served with Perigueux sauce. This is 

also called a la Rothschild. 
Filets de truites a la Mazarine are fillets saute, and 

served in a sauce of melted butter, yolks of 

eggs, lobster spawn, anchovy, etc. 
a Vaurore are covered with white sauce, grated 

Parmesan, and hard-boiled egg. 
a la Genevoise are served with Genevoise sauce. 
a V Alexandra are rolled, and served cold, 

garnished with green butter and little balls 

of cucumber. They are sometimes served in 

little paper cases. 

TUNNY. 

Them frit is cut in pieces and fried. It is served 
with Kemoulade sauce. 

TURBOT. 

Turbot a la Hollandaise is boiled, and served with 
Hollandaise sauce ; sauce homard, with lobster 
sauce. 



36 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Turbot a la creme served with a sauce of cream, 
yolks of eggs and lemon juice. 

a la creme d'anchois served in a sauce of melted 
butter, anchovy butter, and cream, sprinkled 
with chopped gherkins and capers. 

a la Mazarine served in the same sauce as 
fillets of trout " a la Mazarine." 

a la Eusse served with horseradisla sauce. 

a la Napier served in a white sauce with 
mussels. 

a la Morny served in a cheese sauce. 

a la Eeligieuse served in Hollandaise sauce, 
sprinkled with chopped tarragon and {raffle, 
and garnished with hard-boiled egg. 

grille a la Vatel grilled, and served with mussel 
sauce, and crayfish or prawns. 

a la Parisienne stuffed and baked, and served 
with a white sauce. Served with white Matelote 
sauce, it is called a la Normande. 

au gratin, or a la Bechamel. Pieces of turbot in 
Bechamel sauce, covered with breadcrumbs 
and grated Parmesan, and browned. Dressed 
with shrimp sauce and served in scallop shells, 
it is called a la Beyniere. 

a la creme gratine. Alternate layers of pieces of 
turbot and of a sauce of milk, butter, flour, yolks 
of eggs, parsley, etc., sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. 

au gratin a la Proven $ ale. Alternate layers of 
pieces of turbot and Provenale sauce, bread- 
crumbed and browned. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 37 

Petit turbot a la Meuniere is a small fish crimped, 
grilled, and served in a sauce of melted butter, 
yolks of eggs and lemon juice. 

Filets de turbot a VImperiale are small fillets, 
masked alternately with red and white sauce, 
and served with Cardinal sauce. 
a I'Imperatrice are masked with white forcemeat, 
decorated with red forcemeat, and are served 
on a forcemeat border with a red sauce. 

WEAVERS. 

Vives au gratin are stewed, breadcrumbed, and 
baked. 

a la Normande larded with pieces of eel and 
anchovy; cooked in wine with butter and 
vegetables, and served in the sauce. If served 
with Italian sauce, they are called a la Borde- 
laise. 

a la Maitre d'hotel broiled, and served with 
Maitre d'hotel sauce. 

WHITEBAIT. 

Blanchailles are fried. They should be served 
with lemon, cayenne, and slices of bread and 
butter. 
a la Diable are devilled. 

WHITING. 

Merlans au gratin, or a VAnglaise, are bread- 



38 MENUS MADE EASY. 

crumbed and fried with their tails in their 

mouths. 
Merlans a la Frangaise dipped in milk, floured, 

and fried ; served with anchovy or any other 

sauce. 
Filets de merlans a la Hollandaise. Fillets served 

with Hollandaise sauce. They may also be 

served with Italian, Bordelaise, Fines-herbes, 

and other sauces. 
a la Orly are floured, fried, and served with 

tomato sauce. 
a I'Aurore are served in an egg sauce with 

cheese. 
a la Vatcl are served in tomato sauce, garnished 

with strips of anchovies and gherkins. 
a la Comtesse are baked in paper cases, and 

garnished with forcemeat balls, and prawns 

or crayfish tails. 
a VExcellence are fried, and served in a rich 

white sauce with capers and anchovies. 
Petites cremes de merlans a V aspic are little creams 

of whiting, served cold, garnished with aspic. 
Souffle de merlan en surprise is a baked souffle 

of whiting with a ragout of lobster in the 

centre. 

WHITING POLLOCK. 

Colin frit is cut in slices, fried, and served with 
oil and lemon. 



FISH OR POISSONS. 39 



SHELL FISH AND FISH ENTKEES. 
GRAB, i 

Coquille de crabe is scalloped crab, served in the 
shell. As Supreme de crabe aux tomates, it is 
dressed with tomato sauce and breadcrumbs, 
and served in the shell. 

Petites wquilles de crabe en mayonnaise are little 
shell moulds of crab forcemeat, served with 
salad and Mayonnaise sauce. 
It may also be dressed in little fried cakes, as 

Crepi&ettes de crabe, in a souffle, and in many of 

the ways suggested for lobster. 

CRAYFISH. 

Ecrevisses au court-bouillon are boiled in court- 
bouillon. If served in Bordelaise sauce, they 
are called a la Bordelaise. 

Aspic d'ecrevisses a mould of aspic with crayfish, 
and vegetables cut in shapes ; served with 
Mayonnaise sauce. 

Petits pates aux ecrevisses covered patties, filled 
with crayfish and quenelles of fish. 

Langouste a la broche. Sea crayfish roasted. 

LOBSTER. 

Homard au court-bouillon is boiled in court-bouillon, 

and served with lobster sauce, 
a la Bordelaise cut up and served in Bordelaise 
sauce. 



40 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Homard au kari curried ; served with boiled rice. 
en aspic slices coated with white sauce, in a 

mould of aspic. 

en del is a cream made of pounded lobster with 
clotted or whipped cream, served in little cases. 

Cotelettes de homard are lobster cutlets. They may 
be served with Mayonnaise sauce. 

Miroton de homard a la Cardinal. Slices of lobster, 
half of them dipped in white sauce, and half 
in the same sauce coloured with lobster butter ; 
dressed on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce. 

Coquille de homard. Scalloped lobster, served in the 
shell. 

Croquettes de homard are croquettes of lobster, bread- 
crumbed and fried. 

Bissoles de homard is the same preparation folded in 
thin pieces of paste, breadcrumbed and fried. 

Petits vol-au-vents, or petits pate's, de homard are 
little puff paste patties filled with the croquette 
preparation of lobster. 

Bouchees de homard a la Bechamel are patties smaller 
than the vol-au-vents, filled with chopped 
lobster in Bechamel sauce. 

Mayonnaise de homard the lobster cut up and 
served with lettuces and Mayonnaise sauce ; 
ornamented with anchovies, olives and hard- 
boiled egg. 

Salade de homard a VIndienne cut in slices and 
served on a salad with Indian pickles and 
Mayonnaise sauce ; garnished with hard-boiled 



FISH OR POISSONS. 41 

Gateau, or Pain, de homard is a mould of lobster 
forcemeat. Timbale moulds of this forcemeat 
may be served cold with salad and Mayon- 
naise sauce as Timbales de homard en Mayon- 
naise. 

Petits pains de homard a la Hollandaise are little 
moulds or cakes of lobster, served with Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Quenelles de homard a la Russe are quenelles of 
lobster served with horseradish sauce. Served 
with Hollandaise or Mayonnaise sauce, they 
are called a la Belle Vue. 

MUSSELS. 

Moules a la poulette are cooked in butter with chives 
and parsley, and served in the sauce with 
yolks of eggs. 
a la Villeroi are masked with Villeroi sauce, 

breadcrumbed and fried. 

au gras stewed with bacon, stock, flour, mush- 
rooms, etc. 

Coquilles de monies scalloped ; served in scallop- 
shells. 

SCALLOPS. 

Potencies en coquilles are scalloped and served in 
the shells. 

OYSTERS. 

Huitres a la Villeroi. Large oysters, each coated 
with Villeroi sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. 



42 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Huitres au Parmesan browned with breadcrumbs, 
grated Parmesan, chopped parsley, and wine. 
en papillotes rolled in oval-shaped pieces of a 
paste made of mashed potatoes, flour and 
butter, and baked. 

a la Diable are devilled broiled, seasoned with 
butter, lemon juice and cayenne. Slices of 
brown bread and butter are served with them. 
a VAmericaine are breadcrumbed and fried. 
a la Virginie are breadcrumbed and broiled; 
served with tomatoes and a brown sauce. 

Ragout aux huitres stewed with vegetables, butter, 
flour, etc. Served in the sauce with yolks of 
eggs. 

Coquilles aux huitres scalloped and served in 
scallop-shells. 

Petits pains aux huitres stewed with bread- 
crumbs and butter, and baked in very small 
rolls, from which the crumb has been scooped 
out. 

Croutes aux huitres pounded with cream and 
spread on small pieces of toast. 

Andouillettes aux huitres are small oyster sausages, 
made with suet, breadcrumbs, etc. 

Bouchees aux huitres are small oyster patties. 

Croquettes aux huitres are croquettes of oysters, 
breadcrumbed and fried. 

Kromeskys aux huitres are small pieces of oyster 
croquette preparation wrapped in thin slices 
of bacon, dipped in batter and fried. 

Rissoles aux huitres are made of the same pre- 



FISH OR POISSONS. 43 

paration folded in paste, breadcrumbed and 
fried. With the addition of chopped truffles, 
they are called Rissoles a la Hollandaise. 

Timbale aux Imitres is a steamed or baked timbale 
mould of oyster preparation. It may be 
served with white or Cardinal sauce. 

Crepinettes aux Imitres are little fried oyster cakes. 
They may be served a la Hollandaise, or a la 
Tartare, with Dutch or Tartare sauce. 

Beignets aux huitres are oyster fritters. 

Oysters can also be curried, or dressed in a 

souffle, a vol-au-vent, or an omelette. 

SHRIMPS AND PRAWNS. 

These are dressed in Rissoles or Petits pates in 
the same way as lobster. They are called Rissoles 
or Petits pates, de crevettes of shrimps, de chevrettes 
of prawns. Friantines de crevettes are fritters of 
shrimps. 

The preparations of shellfish generally appear 
as entrees, but such dishes as crab or lobster, 
scalloped, in aspic, or as a Mayonnaise, may be 
substituted for a roast or dressed vegetable in the 
second course. 

Fish entrees can be made with almost any kind 
of fish. They may be prepared in any of the ways 
given for shellfish, and take their name from the 
fish of which the dish is composed ; or they may 
be called simply Petits pains, etc., de poisson. 

In addition to those already enumerated, the 



44 MENUS MADE EASY. 

following are suggested. In each case the name 

of the fish used may be substituted for "poisson." 

Poisson au supreme. Pieces of fish with white sauce 
in a potato border, decorated with hard-boiled 
egg, etc. 

Pain, or Boudin, de poisson a la Turque is a steamed 
mould of fish dressed with rice, etc. A la 
Milanaise, it is dressed with macaroni. 

Gateau de poisson a la Palerme is a fish cake baked 
or steamed in a mould, and served in a brown 
sauce with lemon juice and shreds of lemon 
peel. The same preparation of fish steamed 
in little moulds is served as Petits boudins, or 
timbales, de poisson a la Cardinal with Cardinal 
sauce, a la Venitienne with Venetian sauce, 
a la Tartare with Tartare sauce. A Vaspic, 
they are served cold, set in aspic, or on a 
border of aspic with a salad garnish. 

Petits pains de poisson a la Mazarine are little fish 
cakes made with anchovy cream and served 
with anchovy sauce. 

Poisson en ballotines are little fish balls, poached or 

fried. 

Creme de poisson is a cream made of pounded fish 
with eggs, and cream or panada a preparation 
of butter, water, and flour. It is steamed in a 
mould, or in several small moulds. Cold 
fish creams, set in moulds, or served in little 
cases, are sometimes called Petites mousses 
de poisson. 
Cotelettes de poisson a la Bergen are cutlet moulds 



FISH OR POISSONS. 45 

of fish cream, served cold on croutes of fried 

bread, garnished with a cucumber salad and 

aspic. A VAlexandra, they are set in red 

aspic, and are garnished with salad, and little 

moulds of tomato cream. 
Souffle de poisson glace is an iced fish souffle. 
Petits z&phyrs de poisson are a very light form of 

little steamed fish souffles. This name is also 

frequently given to quenelles of fish. 
Croustades de poisson are little cases of pastry, or 

of fried bread, filled with dressed fish. They 

are sometimes called Cassolettes. 
Talmouses ft VIndienne are tartlets of anchovy 

pastry filled with curried fish. 
Petites causes a la Pecheur are china or paper cases 

filled with dressed fish in white or red sauce, 

sprinkled with breadcrumbs and lobster coral, 

and browned. 
Pilau de poisson is a fish pilau dressed with rice, 

saffron, spice, raisins, etc. 
Pate de poisson a V Irlandaise is a baked shape of 

mashed potato filled with fish dressed in white 

sauce. 



46 MENUS MADE EASY. 



CHAPTER IV. 

ENTBEES. 
BEEF. 

THE fillet, or undercut of the sirloin, is the part 
most used in the preparation of entrees. It is 
cut in little slices and dressed as 
Filets de bceuf a la Franqaise broiled, and served 

with Maitre d 'hotel butter and fried potatoes. 
a la Chateaubriand broiled, and served in 

Chateaubriand sauce. 

They may be served aux cerises or aux oranges 
with a compote of cherries or of oranges in the 
centre of the dish; a la Tartar -e with Tartare sauce ; 
or with any dressed vegetable, and are named 
accordingly. 
a Vltalienne floured, fried, and served in Italian 

sauce. 
a la Russe saute, and served with horseradish 

sauce. 
a la Perigueux served with tomatoes and 

Perigueux sauce. 
a la Pompadour served with a slice of tomato 



ENTRIES. 47 

and a tiny pat of Maitre d'hotel butter on each 
fillet, and a garnish of Sparghetti macaroni 
with cheese in the centre of the dish. 
Filets de bceuf a la St. James spread with foie-gras 
or liver forcemeat, saute, and served with a 
garnish of mushrooms and cherries. 

a la Carlsbad served with a compote of cherries, 
and a brown sharp sauce with horseradish 
and currant jelly. 

a la Reforme covered with slices of bacon, bread- 
crumbed, with chopped ham mixed with the 
crumbs, and fried ; served with Eeform sauce. 

a la Nemours covered with forcemeat and slices 
of ham, breadcrumbed and fried ; served with 
a white sauce. 

a VOstende spread with an oyster sauce, bread- 
crumbed and fried ; served in a brown sauce 
with anchovy. 

au chasseur larded, soaked in marinade, and 
braised ; served with brown sauce and currant 
jelly. 

a la Grande- Bretagne larded, split, and stuffed 
with macaroni and horseradish sauce ; served 
with a brown sauce and potato chips. 

Petits filets de bceuf a la Riga are rolled fillets, 
stuffed with bacon and forcemeat, braised, 
and served with peas and a brown sauce, 
garnished with slices of tomatoes. 

Orenadins de bceuf a la Financiere are little fillets, 
larded, braised, and served with a Financiere 
garnish. 



48 MENDS MADE EASY. 

Tournedos a la sauce poivrade. Slices of cooked 

fillet dressed in a crown alternately with fried 

slices of bread of the same size; Poivrade 

sauce in the centre. 

This may be served with olives or French 

beans, instead of Poivrade sauce ; and would then 

be called Tournedos aux olives, or aux haricots 

verts. 

Slices of the fillet served with Piquante, Hol- 

landaise or other sauce, are called after the sauce 

with which they are served. A la Naples, they are 

served with a cheese sauce ; aux pruneaux, with a 

compote of prunes. 

Mironton de bceuf are slices of cooked beef in a 
sauce of onions, butter, gravy, flour, etc.; 
covered with breadcrumbs and baked. 
This dish is often called Escalopes de bceuf au 

gratin. It may be served aux cdpres with a sharp 

sauce and capers, and a la St. Jacques with a 

garnish of mushrooms and cherries. 

Mironton de baeuf aux choux is the dish known as 
Bubble-and-Squeak. 

Olives, or Paupiettes, de bceuf are slices of beef spread 
with forcemeat, rolled, stewed, and served in 
the sauce. They may be garnished aux olives 
with olives, or aux tomates with tomatoes. 

Salade de boeufa la Chateau. Little rolled slices of 
beef served on an aspic border with a mixed 
vegetable salad in the centre. 

Bouilli en matelote. Slices of boiled beef in a sauce 
of stock, wine, onions, mushrooms, etc. 



ENTREES. 49 



Entre-cotes de bceuf a la Bordelaise are thick slices 
of ribs of beef, broiled and served in Bordelaise 
sauce with pieces of beef marrow. 

Timbale de bceuf a la Milanaise is a mould lined 
with macaroni, filled with a preparation of 
minced beef. 
A mould of beef is served as Gateau, or Pain, 

de Iceuf, a la Naples with a cheese sauce, a la 

Milanaise with a garnish of macaroni. 

Cotelettes de bceuf a la Moltke are cutlet moulds of 
beef forcemeat, served with a Milanaise garnish 
and a rich tomato sauce. 

Dormers de bceuf are beef dormers the whites of 
hard-boiled eggs filled with a puree of beef. 
They are sometimes breadcrumbed and fried. 

Petits pains a la Menagert are little moulds of 
minced beef served with brown sauce and 
mushrooms. The same preparation may be 
made into little rolls or cakes, wrapped in 
pork caul and fried, and served as Crepinettes, 
or dressed in little patties, as Petites bouchees, 
a la Menagere. 

(Eufs a VEcossaise are hard-boiled eggs coated with 
minced meat or forcemeat, breadcrumbed and 
fried, and then cut in halves. If covered with 
crushed vermicelli instead of breadcrumbs, 
and served with a sharp sauce, they are called 
a la Garfteld. 
Curried beef is served as Kari de Iceuf, or Bceuf 

a llndienne ; a I 'Orient, it is garnished with olives 

and gherkins. 



50 MENUS MADE EAST. 

Rissoles a VIndienne are curried rissoles. 

Rissoles a la Suisse are flat cakes of mince, served 

with gravy. 

Boulettes a la Franchise are little balls of minced 
beef with breadcrumbs, etc., served with gravy 
and fried potatoes. 

Chaudfroid a la Paysanne is a mould of aspic, 
decorated with vegetables, and filled with a 
puree of meat. 

Moelle de boeuf a la Orly. Beef marrow cut in 
long pieces, dipped in batter and fried ; served 
with tomato sauce in a sauce-boat. 
Quenelles a la moelle are quenelles of beef marrow 

with breadcrumbs, eggs, etc. 
Petites bo?nbes a la moelle are made of the same 

preparation, steamed in little bombe moulds. 
Bouchees a la moelle are small patties filled with 
marrow and a savoury sauce of cream, shallot, 
chives, etc. 

Petites croustades a la moelle are made of the same 
preparation put into little cases of fried bread, 
breadcrumbs strewed on the top, and browned. 
Friantines de moelle a la St. Marc are slices of 
marrow laid on slices of tomato, covered with 
forcemeat, and fried in batter. 
Vol-au-vent d'amourettes a la creme is a vol-au-vent 
of beef tendons with Bechamel sauce and 
mushrooms. 

Palais de boeuf a la Robert. Ox palates cut in 
round or oval pieces, and served with Robert 
sauce. This dish may be served with other 



ENTREES. 61 

sauces instead of Eobert, changing the name 
accordingly. 
Palais de bosuf a la Lyonnaise, or a la Marseillaise, 

are served in soubise sauce. 
a la Eavigote. Oval pieces, dipped in -white 
sauce with shallot, parsley, etc., breadcrumbed 
and fried ; served with Eavigote sauce. 
a la Vivahdiere are dressed in the same way, but 
served in a brown sauce with onions, butter, 
port wine, etc. 

en papillotes. Oval pieces in white sauce with 
parsley and mushrooms, broiled in papers, 
and served with Italian sauce. 
For Croquettes de palais de baeuf, the palates are 
cut in pieces and rolled, with forcemeat in the 
centre of each, dipped in batter, and fried. 

They are also dressed in a vol-au-vent, or, if 
preferred, in several small ones, as Petits vol-au- 
vents de palais de boeiif. 

Ox-cheek, braised or stewed, and cut in small 
pieces, is served as 
Tete de boeuf a la St. Germain with green peas ; 

a la Portugaise with Spanish onions. 
a la Czarina is served in a sharp brown sauce 

with currant jelly, sultanas, and gherkins. 
Ox-tongue is served as 
Langue de boeuf an Parmesan. Slices cooked with 

stock, wine, and grated Parmesan. 
en papillotes. Slices wrapped in papers with 

slices of bacon and broiled, 
a la Napolitaine. Slices covered with cheese 



52 MENUS MADE EASY. 

sauce and breadcrumbs, and served with 

macaroni and tomatoes. 
Turban de langue de bceuf a I'Ecarlate. Oval slices 

cut from two tongues, one pickled red, the 

other fresh; dressed in a crown alternately, 

with tomato sauce. 
a la Macedoine is dressed in the same manner, 

and served with a white Macedoine garnish in 

the centre, and white sauce. 
Bouchees a Vecarlate are little patties of tongue. 

Ox-tails are dressed as 
Queue de bceuf en haricot, or en ragout, cut in 

joints, stewed, and served in the sauce with 

onions, carrots and turnips cut in shapes. 
aux navets au brun stewed, and served with 

turnips cut into small balls, and brown sauce. 
a la jardiniere served with brown sauce, and 

vegetables cut in small shapes. 
en Jcari curried, and served with boiled rice. 
a la Milanaise stewed, and served in white 

sauce with macaroni. 
aux marrons served in brown sauce with braised 

chestnuts. 
a la Ste. Menehould served in a brown sauce, 

covered with breadcrumbs and browned, 
a la Marseillaise the pieces masked with a 
, puree of onions, breadcrumbed and fried; 
1 served in a highly seasoned brown sauce. 

VEAL. 

Veal Cutlets are served as : 
Cotelettes de veau a la Russe fried, spread on 



ENTREES. 53 



one side with a preparation of horseradish, 
and breadcrumbed with grated Parmesan 
mixed with the crumbs; served with thin 
tomato sauce. 

Cotelettes de veau a la Maintenon coated with a 
sauce of mushrooms, ham, eggs, etc., and baked 
or grilled in papers. This dish is sometimes 
prepared with little slices of veal fricandeau. 

enpapillotes soaked in oil with mushrooms, lemon 
juice, etc. ; wrapped in papers and cooked in 
the seasoned oil. 

a la Boulanger saute, and served in tomato 
sauce with a puree of apples in the centre. 

a la Talleyrand seasoned with chopped mush- 
rooms and shallots, cooked and served in a 
white sauce with lemon juice and chopped 
parsley. 

a la St. Clair served with slices of fried ham 
and tomato sauce. 

a la Drayton thickly coated with a rich brown 
sauce, breadcrumbed and saute. 

a la sans faqon breadcrumbed with chopped 
shallots and parsley mixed with the crumbs, 
broiled, and dressed round mashed potato. 

a la Marquise covered with a slice of ham and 
a coating of forcemeat, breadcrumbed and 
fried, and served in a white sauce with chopped 
ham. 

a la Reine breadcrumbed and broiled; served 
with truffles and mushrooms, and clear gravy. 

<i la Marechale breadcrumbed with grated cheese 



54 MENUS MADE EASY. 

i 

mixed with the crumbs, and fried ; served 
with orange sauce. ' 

Cotelettes de veau a la Financiere larded, braised 
and glazed ; served with Financiere sauce. 

aux champignons larded, braised and glazed ; 
served with a puree of mushrooms. They are 
also served with tomato, Jardiniere, or other 
sauce, or with dressed cucumber or asparagus, 
and named after the sauce or garnish with 
which they are served. A la [Eusse, they are 
served with horseradish sauce ; a la Bretonne, 
with a puree of turnips. Veal cutlets dressed 
in this way are often called Grenadins de veau 
instead of cotelettes. 

a la St. Garat larded with bacon and tongue, 
and braised. Set in aspic ornamented with 
hard-boiled egg, truffles, etc., and cut out; 
served cold. 

la Princesse braised in white stock, coated 
with Mayonnaise sauce, and served cold with 
salad and aspic jelly. Served with iced toma- 
toes, they are called a VAmericaine. 

The tendons, or gristly part of the breast, cut 
in pieces, are dressed as 

Tendrons de veau aux petits pois stewed with 
peas, etc. 

frits soaked in vinegar and water, and fried. 
Served with horseradish sauce, they are called 
a la Russe. 

& la Poulette cooked in a white sauce with 
onions, mushrooms, etc. 



ENTRIES. 55 

Tendrons de veau a la noble dame. Small pieces 

coated with a white sauce, dipped in batter and 

fried. Dressed with fried watercress in the 

centre, and a sauce of cream and butter. 

aux epinards. Oval pieces, braised and glazed ; 

served with dressed spinach. 
en kari curried ; served with a slice of fried 
bacon between each piece, and with rice in 
the centre, 
a la Naples served in a Soubise sauce with 

cheese. 

en Mayonnaise served cold in Mayonnaise sauce, 
with onions and gherkins. 

Escalopes Ecossaiscs are slices of veal seasoned 
with spice, served in a savoury sauce, garnished 
with rolls of fried bacon, forcemeat balls, and 
lemon. 

Haricot de veau a la Normande is a haricot of veal 
with herbs and green peas. 

Blanquette de veau is a white fricassee of veal ; a 
I'ecarlate, it is dressed with tongue. A fri- 
cassee of veal can also be served a I'Anglaisc 
with fried bacon, or aux ceufs poches with 
poached eggs. 

Pilau de veau a la Madras. Pieces of veal dressed 
with curried rice, spice and raisins ; garnished 
with rolls of fried bacon. 

Pilau de veau a la Bombay is dressed with savoury 
rice with spice and raisins, and is garnished 
with slices or divisions of oranges, and shreds 
of lettuce and orange peel. 



56 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Medallions de veau a la Belle Vue are slices from a 
galantine of veal, coated with a white sauce 
and served on an aspic border with a salad in 
the centre. 

Pain de veau is a mould of minced veal. Served a 
la Napolitaine, it has a white sauce with cheese. 

Petitcs croustades a la Napolitaine are little pastry 
cases filled with minced veal in a white cheese 
sauce. 

Timbale a I'Indienne is a mould of minced veal or 
veal forcemeat, served with Indian sauce and 
garnished with Indian pickles. 

Timbale a la Talleyrand is a mould of forcemeat 
and tongue. Made in a shape of pastry, it is 
called Croustade a la Talleyrand. 

Andouillettes de Troyes grillees are broiled veal 
sausages, made with mushrooms, truffles, 
eggs, etc. 

Poupiettes, or Olives, de veau are slices of veal 
spread with forcemeat, rolled and stewed. 

Creme de veau is a cream of veal steamed in a 
mould. It is served a la Perigueux, with 
Perigueux sauce. A la Richelieu, it is steamed 
in a mould lined with chopped truffles, and 
served with truffle sauce. A la Jardiniere, the 
mould is ornamentally lined with vegetables, 
and it is served with a thin brown sauce ; this 
dish is frequently called Chartreuse a la Sour- 
geoise. 
These creams or boudins are also steamed in 

small timbale or bombe moulds. They may be 



ENTREES. 57 



lined in the same manner, or served with a vegetable 

garnish, or a la Bourgeoise with mixed vegetables. 

Quenelles de veau a la puree de champignons are 
poached quenelles of veal forcemeat served 
with a puree of mushrooms. They are also 
served aujambon, with ham sauce, with brown 
or white sauce, or with any dressed vegetable. 
As Chaudfroid de quenelles aux censes, they are 
served cold with a compote of cherries, or with 
cherry sauce. 

Souffle a la Bourgeoise is composed of minced or 
pounded veal in a rich white sauce, covered 
with a savoury meringue and browned ; dressed 
in a souffle dish. This preparation of veal 
may be served cold, as Petites gelees set in 
little moulds of aspic, and garnished with a 
vegetable salad. 

Pctits pates a la Bourgeoise are small patties filled 
with veal forcemeat. 

Petits pates a la Turque are rice patties filled with 
minced veal in white sauce with currants 01 
sultanas. 

Gateau de riz a la Menagere is a mould of rice with 
a preparation of minced or pounded veal in 
the centre. 

Pain a la Franqaise consists of layers of slices of 
veal, bacon and calf's liver in a mould of 
aspic. 
Calf s head for an entree is boned, boiled, and 

cut in pieces. It is dressed as 

Tete de veau a la Sainte-Menehould the piece 



58 MENUS MADE EASY. 

coated with a sauce of butter and flour, bread- 
crumbed, sprinkled with melted butter, and 

browned. 
TeHe de veau en moule minced, and baked in a 

mould in alternate layers with chopped ham. 
a la Financiere served with Financiere garnish. 
Turban de tete de veau a la Maitre d'hotel the 

pieces dressed in a crown, and served with 

Maitre d'hotel sauce, 
a la Hollandaise served with Dutch sauce; a 

la poulette in white sauce with mushrooms, 

onions, and yolks of eggs. 
Calves' Brains are dressed as 
Cervelles de veau a la Provengale cooked in stock 

with wine, oil, parsley, garlic, etc., and served 

in the sauce. 
a la Eavigote boiled, cut in slices, and arranged 

in a circle, with Eavigote sauce. 
en caisses au gratin. Small slices with a white 

sauce, baked in paper cases, with breadcrumbs 

on the top. This preparation may be served 

in little cases of pastry or fried bread, as 

Petites croustades de cervelles. 
Croquettes de cervelles made into croquettes with 

breadcrumbs, milk, eggs, etc., breadcrumbed 

and fried. 
Fritot de cervelles. Fritters made of pieces of the 

brains soaked in vinegar, dipped in batter, 

and fried. 

They are also served with Matelote, black 
butter, or other sauce, and take their name from it. 



ENTREES. 59 

Calves' Ears dressed as 

Oreilles de veau aux champignons are boiled, and 
served in a brown sauce with yolks of eggs 
and mushrooms. 
farcies stuffed with forcemeat, breadcrumbed 

and fried ; served with gravy. 
en marinade cut in strips, steeped in vinegar, 
etc., dipped in batter and fried; served with 
tomato sauce. 
Calf's Tongue as 
Langue de veau sauce tomates is larded, stewed, 

cut in two, and served in tomato sauce. 
a la jardiniere stewed in white stock, cut in 
oval slices, glazed, and served with a Jardiniere 
garnish. It is also served with Mushroom, 
Ravigote, or Piquante sauce. 
The Liver is dressed as 

Foie de veau a I'ltalienne. Slices cooked with oil, 
wine, bacon, mushrooms, etc., and served in 
the sauce. 
au lard, or a I'Anglaise. Slices saute, and served 

with slices of bacon. 

Cooked with bacon and a few vegetables and 
herbs, pounded and passed through a sieve, it is 
used as a substitute for foie gras. It may be 
dressed in croustades, bouchees, and a variety of ways. 
Pain de foie de veau is a steamed mould of liver 

forcemeat served with thin brown sauce. 
Calf's Kidney is served as 

Rognon de veau sante minced, and saute with 
butter, wine, brown sauce, etc. 



60 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Rognon de veau en ragout a la Nivernaise stewed 
and served with carrots and turnips cut in 
small shapes. 

a la Turque stewed with rice. 
a la Tuilerics minced with bacon, and served 
in a parsley sauce, with a border of puree of 
mushrooms, garnished with potato straws. 
en caisses. Small round slices in brown sauce 
with chopped shallots, mushrooms, etc., baked 
in paper cases, the tops sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs. 

Calves' Feet may be boiled, and dressed in 
tomato, poulette, or other sauce; the dish is 
called 
Pieds de veau aux tomates, or according to the 

sauce, 
a la Tartare are breadcrumbed and broiled, and 

served in Tartare sauce. 

a la bourgeoise are stewed with bacon, veal, 
carrots, onions, etc., and served in the sauce, 
with the vegetables and meats. 
For Pieds de veau en friture or en marinade 
small pieces are steeped in vinegar and water, 
dipped in batter, and fried. 

Calf's Tail, cut in pieces and boiled, is served 
as 

Queue de veau a la Ravigote in Ravigote sauce ; 
or a la poulette in white sauce with onions 
and mushrooms. 
Sweetbreads are dressed as 
Ris-de-veau a la Villeroi, Slices coated with 



ENTRIES. 61 

Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried ; 

served with a white sauce and any dressed 

vegetable. 
Ris-de-veau a lapoulette cooked with flour, butter, 

mushrooms, onions, etc. 
a VAnglaise breadcrumbed and roasted; served 

with gravy. 
frits dipped in batter and fried; served with 

tomato sauce. 
a la Proven$ale braised in stock with bacon and 

garlic, and served in the sauce, 
a I'Espagnole larded, braised in stock with 
t veal, bacon, onions, etc., and served in the 

sauce. 
a la Toulouse larded and braised; served 

with a Toulouse garnish, or in a white sauce 

with mushrooms and quenelles. 
a la St. Cloud larded and braised, and served 

with truffles and tomato sauce. 
a la Dauphine larded and braised, and served 

with a puree of sorrel. 
a la Montpensier larded and braised, and served 

with rice, and a white sauce with truffles or 

mushrooms. 
a la Constance larded with strips of truffle 

and tongue, braised, and served with white 

sauce, garnished with braised olives and little 

heaps of chopped truffle and tongue. 
enfricandeau larded, braised, and glazed; served 

on a puree of spinach or tomato. 
piques a la Turque larded, braised, and glazed ; 

cut in halves and dressed on a border of 



62 MENUS MADE EASY. 

forcemeat, with rice in the centre, and supreme 
sauce over the rice. 

Ris-de-veau piques aux trujfes larded, braised, and 
served with truffle sauce. Jardiniere or Finan- 
ciere sauce, dressed peas or cucumber, may be 
substituted for the truffle sauce, altering the 
name according to the sauce or vegetable with 
which they are served. 

en Ugarrure. Small sweetbreads, half of them 
larded and braised, and half breadcrumbed 
and roasted ; dressed alternately, and served 
with tomato sauce. 

a la Chinoise. Small sweetbreads larded and 
braised, set in little moulds of aspic orna- 
mented with hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, etc.; 
served cold, with rice in the centre of the dish. 
Ildtelettes de ris de veau are larded slices of sweet- 
bread, roasted and served on little skewers. 
Cotelettes de ris de veau are slices of sweetbread, 
breadcrumbed and fried; served with plain 
gravy or with a white sauce. Served with 
Indian sauce, they are a VIndienne. 
Cotelettes de ris de veau au supreme are saute slices 
served with supreme sauce ; aux champignons, 
with mushroom sauce. Au Montpellier, the 
slices are set in aspic and served with asparagus 
points and Mayonnaise sauce. 
Bis de veau en caisses are small round slices in 
brown sauce with chopped mushrooms, etc., 
baked in paper cases, sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs. 



ENTRIES. 63 

Blanquette de ris de veau aux truffes are round slices 
cooked with slices of truffles in -white sauce 
with cream and yolks of eggs. Garnished 
with fried croutons of bread. 

Petites croustades de ris de veau are little cases of 
pastry filled with sweetbread cut in dice, and 
white sauce with chopped truffles or mush- 
rooms. 

Petites caisses a la St. Clair are little pastry cases 
filled with sweetbread in white sauce, garnished 
with little balls of cucumber. 

Petites caisses a la Whit stable are filled with sweet- 
bread and oysters, and are garnished with 
chopped truffles. 

Vol-au-vent a la Toulouse is a vol-au-vent filled with 
a Toulouse garnish, or with a preparation of 
sweetbread and mushrooms in white sauce. 

MUTTON. 

Cotelettes de mouton sauce tomates are grilled, and 

served with tomato sauce. 
a, la jardiniere are served with stewed vegetables; 

a, la Milanaise, with macaroni. 
a la Soiibise are stewed with stock, etc., and served 

with the sauce round, and thick Soubise sn.uce 

in the centre. 
a la Provenc.ale are covered with an onion sauce, 

breadcruinbed, with grated Parmesan mixed 

with the crumbs, and browned; served with 

fried potatoes. Served with Soubise eauce, 

they are a la Marseillaise, 



64 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Cotelettes de mouton a. la Vicomtesse are coated 
with a sauce of ham, mushrooms, yolks of 
eggs, stock, etc., breadcrumbed and fried ; 
served with paper frills round the bones. 

ti la Bohemienne soaked in marinade, bread- 
crumbed and broiled ; served with a sauce of 
some of the marinade with tomato and brown 
sauce, currant jelly, etc. 

en robe de chambre covered with forcemeat of 
veal, breadcrumbed and browned ; served 
with gravy. 

a la financiere braised, and served with Finan- 
ciere garnish. 

braisees aux navets larded, braised, and dipped 
in aspic with Poivrade sauce ; served cold with 
dressed turnips and broken aspic. 

a la Viennoise larded and braised ; served in a 
brown sauce with currant jelly. 

a la Maintenon are split, stuffed with Duxelles 
sauce, broiled, and served with a Jardiniere or 
Financiere garnish. Stuffed with an onion 
sauce, they are called a la Pompadour. 

& la Marquise. A. slice of ham laid on each 
cutlet, and veal forcemeat spread on it in a 
mound ; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and 
browned ; served in white sauce with chopped 
ham. 

& la Eeforme breadcrumbed, with chopped ham 
mixed with the crumbs, fried, and served with 
Eeforme sauce. They may have a Eeforme 
garnish in the centre. 



ENTRIES. 65 

Cotelettes de mouton a la Juire coated with 

forcemeat, glazed, and served with a Macedoine 

garnish. 
a la Durcelle put into paper cases, and baked 

in brown sauce with Harvey sauce, chopped 

onions, mushrooms, etc. 
panees grillees breadcrumbed and broiled, and 

served with clear gravy, 
a la Bretonne are breadcrumbed and fried, and 

served with mashed turnips, or with a puree 

of white haricot beans. 

a la Palestine are served with Jerusalem arti- 
chokes cut in little balls, and white sauce. 
au parmesan have parmesan mixed with the 

breadcrumbs, and are served with a cheese 

sauce. 
a la Dreux are served with mashed potatoes, 

and are garnished with chopped ham and 

gherkins, 
a la Napolitaine are served with Chevreuil sauce, 

garnished with strips of truffle, tongue and 

macaroni. 
a la Cussy are served in a white sauce with 

chopped ham and mushrooms. 
aux pointes d'asperges served with a garnish in 

the centre of asparagus in white sauce. 
aiix truffes served in brown sauce, with truffles 

cut in slices. 
aux petites ratines on a mashed potato border 

with carrots and turnips cut in long shapes, 
brown sauce. They are also served with 

F 



66 MENUS MADE EASY. 

any kind of dressed vegetable or puree of 
vegetable, or with Hollandaise, Italienne, 
Lyonnaise, Maitre d'hotel or other sauce. 
They are named after the sauce or vegetable 
with which they are served. 
For Chaudfroid de cotelettes a Vaspic they are 

spread with forcemeat in a mound, coated with 

brown sauce, and served cold on a border of the 

forcemeat, garnished with aspic. 

Chaudfroid de cotelettes a la Fermiere coated with 
Maitre d'hotel sauce with cream, and served 
cold, dressed in a crown with a salad in the 
centre. If coated with brown sauce, they are 
called a la Eusse; or with sauces of two or 
three different colours, a la Pompadour. 

Cotelettes a la Prince de Galles are pieces of stewed 
breast of mutton, breadcrumbed and fried; 
served with a puree of turnips, and gravy. 

Epigrammes de mouton a la Smyrne are cutlets from 
a boned breast of mutton, half of them saute, 
and half breadcrumbed and fried ; served in 
a sharp white sauce with raisins and pickled 
onions. 

Ragout de mouton a VIrlandaise is Irish stew. 

Haricot de mouton is haricot mutton. It is now 
often called Navarin de mouton. A I'Allemande, 
it is served in a sharp brown sauce with 
currant jelly and prunes. 

Filets de mouton a la Frangaise are mutton chops 
cut from the loin, broiled and served with fried 
potatoes. 



ENTREES. 67 



Petits filets de mouton au chevreuil, or a la, Chas- 
seur, are slices cut from the fillet or under part 
of the loin, larded, soaked in marinade, and 
braised ; served with Chevreuil sauce and 
French beans. Dressed in this manner they 
are also served aux epinards, with spinach, or 
a la Macedoine, with a Macedoine garnish in 
the centre and brown sauce. 
a la minute are cooked in stock with bacon, and 

served in the sauce. 
a V Orient are dressed with savoury tomato rice, 

and curry sauce with olives. 
a la Palestine are served with a puree of Jeru- 
salem artichokes. 

Noisettes de mouton a la Syrienne are little slices 
from a neck or loin of mutton, served with 
savoury rice, and Indian sauce with sultanas 
or raisins. A la Parisienne, they are dressed 
on croutes of fried bread with slices of toma- 
toes, and are served with Supreme sauce. 
The chump end of the loin, cut in thin slices, is 
dressed as Escalopes de mouton aux fines herbes 
cooked with butter, flour, stock, chopped mush- 
rooms, etc. ; served with a garnish of fried croutons, 
or sippits, of bread. 

Carbonade de mouton (see Eemoves) is dressed as 
an entree, cut in slices, and served with 
Piquante, Poivrade, or other sauce. The 
slices are also dipped in Maitre d'hotel sauce 
with cream, and served cold with a salad in the 
centre, as Carbonade de mouton a la Fermiere. 



68 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Escalopes, or filets, de mouton a I'Indienne are slices 

of mutton in a cnrry sauce ; served with rice. 
a la Normahal are served with savoury tomato 

rice and a spiced tomato sauce. 
a I'Americaine are served with stuffed tomatoes ; 

a la Bourgeoise, with brown gherkin sauce; 

a la Czarina, with Czarina sauce. 
a la Galloise are served on croutes of fried bread, 

with a ragout of mushrooms and olives in the 

centre, and brown sauce. 
Ragout de mouton a la Turque is stewed mutton, 

served with stuffed cucumbers. Served with 

a puree of tomatoes, it is called a- I'Americaine ; 

or with a compote of prunes, a I'Algeriemie. 
Fricassee de mouton au riz is a white fricassee of 

mutton with rice. 
Pilau de mouton a la Turque is a mutton pilau. 

Small pieces dressed with savoury rice cooked 

with spice, saffron, raisins, etc. 
Croustade a la Turque is a baked shape of rice, 

filled with a preparation of minced mutton. 

The same preparation is served in little balls 

of rice as Ballettes a la Turque; or in little 

patties made of semolina as Petites croustadcs 

a la semoule. 
Petites croustades a la Menagere are pastry cases 

filled with mince, with poached eggs on the 

top. 
Cassolettes a VIrlandaise are little patty shapes of 

mashed potato, filled with mince. 
Chartreuse aux epinards is a mould of spinach, 



ENTREES. 69 

filled with minced or pounded mutton and 

brown sauce. 
Sabotages a I'Indienne are made of pounded mutton, 

curried, steamed in little moulds, and served 

with a curry sauce. 
Kabobs a I'Indienne are little pieces of curried 

mutton put on skewers with button onions 

and slices of tomatoes ; served with rice, and 

curry sauce. 
Pate a la Romaine is a baked mould of macaroni 

filled with layers of mince and macaroni. 
Pctits pates de mouton a la Windsor are small covered 

patties filled with minced mutton, brown 

sauce, chopped mushrooms, etc. 
Petits pates de Cornouailles are Cornish pasties. 

Kidneys dressed as 
Rognons de mouton a Vepicurienne are cut open, 

breadcrumbed and broiled, and the hollows 

filled with Tartare sauce; served with devil 

sauce, 
a la brochette are dressed in the same way, the 

hollow of the kidneys filled with a lump of 

Maitre d'hotel butter. 
a la Venitienne cut in halves, fried in butter 

with chopped shallots, and dressed on a border ; 

brown sauce with anchovy butter, etc. 
an vin de Champagne. Thin slices served in a 

white sauce with champagne, or other white 

wine, and mushrooms. 
en ragout. Thin slices cooked hi butter, with 

wine, flour, chopped mushrooms, shallot, etc. 



70 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Rognons de wwuton sautes aux epinards. Slices saute, 
and served with dressed spinach. Served on 
a border of spinach with a rich brown sauce, 
they are a la Princesse. They are also dressed 
a la Dufferin with brown caper sauce and 
fried potatoes ; a la Milanaise with macaroni ; 
a la Maitre d'hotel with Maitre d'hotel sauce. 

Petits pates, or bouchees, aux rognons are slices in 

white sauce put into little patties. 
Sheep's Tongues are served as 

Langues de mouton braisees larded, braised, and 

served in the sauce with capers. 
an parmesan braised, and served in a cheese 

sauce. 

a V Alleinande braised, and served with a com- 
pote of pears and brown sauce. 
en ragout stewed. Served with Brussels sprouts, 
they are a la Bruxellaise ; or with currant 
sauce, a la Bohemienne. 

Cervelles de mouton en caisses are Sheep's Brains 
cut in small pieces, with Bechamel sauce, 
baked in little souffle cases, the tops sprinkled 
with breadcrumbs. 

Queues de mouton au riz are braised Sheep's 
Tails, coated with rice, breadcrumbed and 
fried. They are also served au Parmesan, 
omitting the rice, and mixing grated Parmesan 
with the breadcrumbs. 

Sheep's Trotters, though rarely seen at a gentle- 
man's table in England, are much more often 



ENTRIES. 71 

served in France. Boiled and cut in pieces, they 

are dressed as 

Pieds de mouton en marinade soaked in marinade, 

dipped in batter and fried, and served with 

tomato sauce ; or a la Robert, served in Robert 

sauce. 
a la poulette are served with Poulette sauce in 

a baked shape of rice. 

LAMB. 

Lamb Cutlets are dressed in most of the ways 
which have been suggested for mutton cutlets. 
There are also 

Cotelettes d'agneau Superlative coated with Alle- 
mande sauce with chopped mushrooms and 
herbs, breadcrumbed and fried; served with 
white sauce, and dressed spinach in the centre. 
Served with asparagus in the centre, they are 
called a la Princesse; for the cold entree of 
this name the cutlets are saute, and served 
in Mayonnaise sauce. 

a la Duchesse coated with Duxelles sauce, bread- 
crumbed and fried; dressed on a high vege- 
table border, with vegetables in the centre, 
and white sauce. 

a la boulangere dipped in oil and then in flour; 
broiled, and served with a cream sauce. 

a la Robert breadcrumbed, broiled and glazed ; 
served with Robert sauce. 

a VAngelique broiled, and served in a rich 
brown sauce, garnished with cucumber. 



72 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Cotelettes d'agneau a la Maltaise fried, and 
served in a white sauce with wine and orange 
juice and shreds of orange peel. 

aux petits legumes breadcrumbed and fried; 
served with carrots and turnips cut in long 
shapes in the centre, and brown sauce. 

au Parmesan dipped in a white sauce with 
grated Parmesan, breadcrumbed and fried. 

a la Pompadour coated with veal forcemeat 
with truffles, and served in papers. 

farcies aux truffes larded, coated with a puree 
of truffles, breadcrumbed and fried; served 
with brown sauce. A puree of artichokes, 
asparagus, mushrooms, or turnips, may be 
used instead of truffles, and the name altered 
accordingly. 

en belle vue larded with tongue, ham, or truffles, 
and braised ; set in aspic and cut out. Served 
cold, with Mayonnaise sauce or Jardiniere 
garnish. 

a V aspic. Cutlets from a larded and roasted 
neck of lamb, coated with Proven^ale sauce, 
and served cold with aspic. 

a la Chatelaine coated with a white sauce with 
Soubise sauce, and served cold with a compote 
of prunes or cherries, garnished with aspic. 

E2ngrammes d'agneau a Vancienne are cutlets cut 
from a boned breast of lamb, half of them 
saute, and half breadcrumbed and fried; served 
with small round slices of lamb in the centre 
with mushrooms and white sauce. 



ENTREES. 73 

Epigrammes d'agneau a la Dauphine are coated with 
white sauce before being breadcrumbed, and 
are served with a puree of green peas. 
They are also served aux concombres, with dressed 

cucumber, or with any other vegetable garnish. 

Tcndrons d'agneau auxpointes d'asperges is a braised 
breast of larnb cut up and arranged in a crown 
alternately with fried slices of bread, with 
dressed asparagus in the centre. 

Noisettes d'agneau a la Beatrice are little slices 
from the neck or loin, dressed with slices of 
cucumber on croutes of fried bread. Served 
with brown sauce, and a garnish of potato 
balls, and artichoke bottoms filled with peas. 

Filets d'agneau en belle vue are fillets of lamb 
masked with Mayonnaise sauce, and served on 
an aspic border with a vegetable Mayonnaise 
in the centre. 

Fricassee d'agneau a la Villeroi is a white fricassee 
of lamb, covered with breadcrumbs and grated 
cheese; a la Milanaise, it is dressed with 
macaroni. 

Roulades d'agneau are thin slices of lamb, rolled, 
breadcrumbed and fried, and served on little 
skewers. 

Blanytutte d'agneau. Small round slices of lamb and 
of ham or tongue, with white sauce, parsley, etc. 
It is sometimes served in a baked shape of 
rice, or in a croustade, or fried shape of bread. 

Blanquette d'agneau a Vlndienne is a white curry of 
lamb ; served with rice. 



74 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Blanquette d'agneau a la Viennet. Small square 
pieces of lamb in white sauce, with layers of 
pieces of hard-boiled eggs of the same size, 
covered with a cheese sauce. 

Tinibales a la Pompadour are little moulds lined 
with macaroni and filled with minced lamb or 
any white meat, steamed, and served with a 
white sauce. 

Tinibales en aspic a la Menagere are little timbale 
moulds of mince, set in aspic. If made in 
cutlet moulds, the dish is called Chaudfroid de 
cotclettes a V aspic. 

Petites croustades a Vltalienne are little cases of rice 

dressed with tomato sauce, breadcrumbed and 

fried ; filled with mince in white sauce, covered 

with whipped whites of eggs, and browned. 

Minced lamb may also be made into cutlet 

shapes, coated with rice, breadcrumbed and fried, 

and served as Cotelettes de riz a la Turque ; or the 

little cutlets may be dressed on croutes of fried 

bread, and served with brown sauce and stuffed 

tomatoes as Cotelettes a V Americaine. 

Lambs' Feet are dressed en marinade and a la 

poulette, in the same manner as sheep's feet. 

As 

Pieds d'agneau farcis, they are stuffed ; served in 
Hollandaise sauce with chopped gherkins. 

Casserole de riz aux pieds d'agneau stewed and 
served in a casserole, or baked shape, of rice. 
Lambs' tails are dressed in the same way. 

Queues d'agneau a la cremiere are Lambs' Tails 



ENTRIES. 75 

braised and served in white sauce with whipped 
cream, etc. 

Cervelles d'agneau a V innocent are Lambs' Brains 
cut in thin slices and put in paper cases with 
white sauce, chopped parsley, etc., sprinkled 
with breadcrumbs and browned. 

Lambs' Ears are stew r ed and served as 
Oreilles d'agneau farcies, filled with a stuffing of 
veal forcemeat, etc., breadcrumbed and fried ; 
served on a border, with Italian sauce. 

a la Eavigote are served on a forcemeat border, 
with Eavigote sauce. 

a la Marquise are served on a border with a 
peeled plover's egg in each ear. White sauce 
with cream, cocks' combs, mushrooms, etc., 
in the centre. 

Langues d'agneau a la Per sane are stewed Lambs' 
Tongues, cut in halves and dressed in a circle, 
covered with a white sauce with wine, mush- 
rooms, etc., sprinkled with breadcrumbs and 
baked ; served with white sauce. 

Lambs' Sweetbreads are dressed as 
Ris d'agneau a la Munich larded and braised ; 
served with rice, and cocoanut sauce. 

a Vaspic set in little moulds of aspic, garnished 
with truffle, etc. 

aux huitres dressed with oysters in a white sauce. 

a la jardiniere larded, braised and glazed; served 
with a Jardiniere garnish. 

Dressed in this way they are served aux petits 
pois, aux concombres, aux pointes d'asperges, etc., 



76 MENUS MADE EASY. 

with dressed peas, cucumber, asparagus or other 

vegetable in the centre, instead of Jardiniere 

garnish. 

Casserole de riz aux ris d'agneau. Sweetbreads and 

cocks' combs with Allemande sauce, in a 

baked shape of rice. 

They may also be dressed in many of the ways 
suggested for ris de veau. 

PORK. 

Pork Cutlets are saute, broiled, or breadcrumbed 
and fried. They are served with Eobert, Tomato, 
Eavigote, Piquante, Indienne, or Remoulade sauce, 
and called Cotelettes de pore frais sauce tomates, or 
a la Robert, according to the sauce with which they 
are served. Aux coings, they are served with a 
compote of quinces. 

Cotelettes de pore a la Bolognaise are bread- 
crumbed, with grated Parmesan mixed with 
the crumbs, and fried ; served with brown 
sauce, and a garnish in the centre of short 
pieces of macaroni, mushrooms and tongue, 
with tomato sauce and grated cheese. 
a VAmericaine are masked with a tomato sauce 
with aspic, and served on an aspic border 
with tomatoes in the centre. 
aux marrons are braised, and served with a puree 
of chestnuts in the centre, and brown sauce. If 
orange juice and shreds of orange peel are added 
to the sauce, they are called a la Daupldnoise. 
a la Navarraise are pickled and braised, and 
served with rice and tomato sauce. 



ENTREES. 77 



Filets de pore a la Marechale are small fillets cut 

from the under part of the loin, breadcrumbed 

and broiled. 
a la Hanoverienne are larded, braised and 

glazed ; dressed in a crown with white pickled 

cabbage in the centre, and brown sauce. They 

are aux epinards or aux pommes, with spinach 

or apple sauce in the centre instead of the 

cabbage. 
a la Haltaise are served in a savoury white sauce 

with orange juice, and chopped orange peel, 

mushrooms, and parsley. 
Escalopes de pore a la Lyonnaise are fillets cut in 

oval slices, breadcrumbed and fried"; dressed 

in a border, covered with Soubise sauce, 

sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. 
Escalopes de pore a la Robert are breadcrumbed 

and fried, and served with Eobert sauce ; 

a I'Indienne with Indian sauce. 
Croustades de pore a la Diable are little fillets on 

croutes of fried bread, covered with a tomato 

sauce with cayenne, and sprinkled with grated 

cheese and breadcrumbs. 
Hagout de pore a la Portugaise is a stew of pork with 

Spanish onions. Aux cornichons, it is dressed 

with pickled gherkins. 
Crepinettes a la sauce piquante are fried sausage 

balls or cakes, served with piquante sauce. 

They are also served aux epinards, with spinach ; 

and a la Franqaise, with fried potatoes. 
Ham for an entree may be minced or pounded, 



78 MENUS MADE EASY. 

steamed in little moulds, and served with spinach 
as Petits pains de jambon aux epinards. Quenelles 
of ham as Quenelles de jambon a la D'Artois are 
served with peas; aux champignons, with mush- 
rooms. 

Petites cremes de jambon en Mayonnaise are little 
creams of ham, served with salad and Mayon- 
naise sauce, garnished with aspic. 
Ham is also dressed as a souffle, and in little 
iced souffles or petites mousses. 

Pig's Ears dressed as 

Oreilles de pore a la Ste. Menehould are bread- 
crumbed and baked, and served with Eemoulade 
sauce. 
braisees are braised and served in the stock, on 

dressed spinach. 
a la Lyonnaise cut in strips and cooked in stock 

with slices of onion, etc. 
Pigs' Feet are dressed en marinade in the same 

way as sheep's feet ; and as 
Pieds de cochon a la Ste. Menehould p'ickled, 

breadcrumbed and fried. 

a la Marseillaise stuffed, and served with Soubise 
sauce. 

POULTRY. 

A very large number of dishes can be made with 
chickens, and they are, perhaps, more useful than 
anything else in the preparation of entrees. 

Cut in joints, they are dressed in the following 
ways : 



ENTREES. 79 



Poulet a la Tartare breadcrumbed and broiled; 

served with Tartare sauce and pickles. 
a la Tyrolienne breadcrumbed and fried ; ^served 

with tomato sauce and fried parsley. 
a la bonne femme stewed and served in white 

sauce. 
au chasseur soaked in oil with onion, etc., 

breadcrumbed and broiled; served in "Yin 

de Madere " sauce with chopped ham. 
a la Chabert cooked in oil with tomatoes, 

chopped parsley, shallots, etc. 
a la Marengo cooked in oil, and served in 

Italian sauce with the oil in which it was 

cooked. 

en kari is curried, and served with rice. Gar- 
nished with little heaps of grated cocoanut 

and of sultanas, it is a la Simla, 
a la Provengale covered with a white onion 

sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and 

browned. 
en marinade soaked in vinegar with herbs, etc., 

and fried in batter. 
saute the joints are saute, and served in a 

sauce of stock, wine, chopped mushrooms, etc. 
saute aux truffes saute, and served in brown 

sauce with truffles. 
a la Demidoff saute, and served with a border 

of rice, and brown sauce with wine, 
a la Pondichery saute, and served with a border 

of rice, and brown sauce with puree of apples, 

orange juice, and shreds of orange peel. 



80 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Fricassee de poulet cooked in a white sauce with 
mushrooms, cocks' combs, pieces of sweet- 
bread, etc. 

a Vancienne cooked with flour, butter, milk, 
young onions, etc. 

Fritot de poulet the joints are seasoned with oil 
and herbs, floured, and fried. Served with 
tomato sauce, it is a la Orly. A laSuisse, they 
are fried in batter. 

Small fillets cut from the breast of fowls are 
dressed as 

Filets de volaille, or poulardes, au supreme, on 
a border, covered with Supreme sauce. 

aux champignons covered with white sauce with 
cream and mushrooms. If slices of truffles 
are substituted for the mushrooms, the dish 
is called aux truffes instead of aux champignons. 

a la Duchesse saute, and dressed in a crown, 
with cocks' combs in the centre, and white 
sauce with cream, etc. 

a la Talma half of them larded, braised and 
glazed, and half stuck with pieces of French 
beans and saute; arranged alternately on 
dressed spinach, and served with brown sauce. 

a I'Ambassadrice cut in slices, and coated with 
forcemeat of fowl with chopped truffles ; 
breadcrumbed, half of them with chopped 
truffles and half with chopped ham mixed 
with the crumbs, and saute. Arranged alter- 
nately ; a puree of cucumbers with cream in 
the centre. 



ENTREES. 81 

Filets de volaille a la Dumas masked with a puree 
of cucumbers with white sauce, etc., bread- 
crumbed and fried; served on a puree of 
cucumbers with cream. 

a la Nesselrode are served cold, masked with a 
white sauce with cream, etc., and dressed alter- 
nately with glazed slices of tongue on a border 
of hard-boiled eggs ; a salad in the centre 
with Mayonnaise sauce. 

aux concombres are arranged in a circle alter- 
nately with stewed pieces of cucumber; served 
with a puree of cucumber. 
aux pointes d'asperges are coated with Supreme 
sauce, and dressed alternately with pieces of 
tongue of the same size ; asparagus points in 
the centre. 

Supreme de volaille is the same dish served with 
Supreme sauce, and with truffles instead of 
asparagus in the centre. It may be served 
cold as Chaudfroid de filets de volaille au 
supreme. 
For Supreme de volaille a la Royale, the fillets 

are dressed on an ornamental border of vegetables, 

with a macedoine garnish in the centre, and a 

small piece of truffle or tongue on each fillet. 

Saute de filets de volaille a la Cardinal is composed of 
saute fillets arranged in a circle with alternate 
slices of truffle ; Cardinal sauce in the centre. 

Poulct a la Princesse is a cold entree prepared 
with fillets of chickens cut in oval slices, coated 
with a sauce of aspic and cream, set in aspic 

G 



82 MENUS MADE EASY. 

and cut out ; served on an aspic border, with 
salad. 

Salade de volatile a la Brunow. Small round slices 
of fowl and slices of cucumber, stewed with 
white sauce, aspic, and peas; cut in square 
pieces when cold, and dressed on a salad 
border, with Tartare sauce. 

Blanc, or Blanquette, de volatile aux concombres. 
Slices from the breast of a roast fowl, with 
pieces of cucumber, white sauce, cream, etc. > 

Cdtelettes de volatile a la Dauphine are made with 
the legs of fowls from which the thigh-bone 
has been removed. They are dipped in Alle- 
mande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried ; served 
with a dressed vegetable in the centre, and 
white sauce. 

Legs of fowls are also boned, stuffed with force- 
meat, and served as Cuisses de volatile, or 
poulardes, a la jardiniere, with a Jardiniere 
garnish; aux concombres, or aux petits pois, 
with dressed cucumber or peas. As Ballotine 
de volatile a la Kusse, the stuffed legs are cut 
in slices, and served with alternate slices of 
tomato, and a vegetable garnish in the centre. 

Cuisses de volaille au soleil are stuffed with force- 
meat, larded in rays, braised, and served on 
a pyramid of forcemeat, with mushroom 
sauce. 

a Vecatilere are stuffed with forcemeat and 
oysters, and dressed on a pyramid of force- 
meat, with oyster sauce. 



ENTREES. 83 

Cuisses de volaille truffees a la Perigord stuffed 
with truffles and Maitre d'hotel butter ; served 
with paper frills round the bones, and with 
truffle sauce. 

a la Bayonnaise the thigh-bone removed, they 
are cooked in oil with onions, and served in 
a white sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs 
and browned. 

farcies aux petits legumes are stuffed and braised ; 
dressed on a border, with carrots and turnips 
cut in shapes, and brown sauce. 

Chaudfroid de volaille. Cooked fowls cut in pieces, 
coated with white sauce and aspic, and served 
cold, dressed in a circle with alternate slices 
of tongue. A la Marie, the pieces are coated 
with a curry sauce, and served with rice and 
stuffed olives. En Mayonnaise, they are coated 
with Bechamel sauce, and served on a salad 
with Mayonnaise sauce, or with aspic whisked 
to a froth with Tarragon vinegar and oil. 

Mayonnaise de volaille. Pieces of fowl served on a 
salad, covered with Mayonnaise sauce, and 
garnished with olives, anchovies, etc. 

Salade de volaille a la Carlton. Pieces masked with 
Mayonnaise sauce with chopped ham, capers, 
etc. ; served with a vegetable mayonnaise, 
garnished with strips of cucumber and beet- 
root. 

Chaudfroid de fricassee is a fowl cut up and coated 
with a white sauce; served cold, garnished 
with aspic. 

Capolitade de volaille. Pieces of fowls served in 



84 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Italian sauce with capers, or in brown sauce 

with wine, garnished with croutons of fried 

bread. 
Chartreuse de volaille is an ornamental mould of 

mixed vegetables, with pieces of chicken in 

the centre. 
Creme de volaille. A pure'e of fowl with cream, 

steamed in a mould decorated with truffles, 

tongue, etc. 
Petits souffles de volaille are made of a puree of 

fowl and beaten eggs, baked in little souffle 

cases, or steamed. 
Souffle glace de volaille. Minced chicken soaked in 

oil, vinegar, etc. ; put into a souffle* dish in 

alternate layers with aspic whipped to a froth, 

and iced. 
Aspic a la Royale is prepared with small round 

slices of fowl, slices of truffle, mushrooms and 

cocks' combs, with Bechamel sauce and aspic ; 

cut into oval pieces and dressed in a mould of 

aspic, ornamented with hard-boiled white of 

egg and truffles. 
Vol-aii-vent de volaille aux huitres is a vol-au-vent 

filled with shreds of chicken in white sauce 

with oysters. 

Small puff paste patties filled with minced chicken 
and white sauce, with tongue, mushrooms or truffles, 
are served as Petitcs louchecs, or Petits pates, a la 
Heine. 

This preparation of chicken is also dressed in 
little china or paper cases as Petites caisses a la 



ENTRIES. 83 

Eeine ; or -with poached eggs on the top, a la 

Victoria. 

Petitcs caisses a la Belle Isle are filled with chicken 
or game in white sauce with chopped mush- 
rooms and ham, garnished with shreds of 
truffle and almonds. 

Bordure de riz a la Eeine is a round wall of rico 

filled with minced, or puree of, fowl. It is 

sometimes garnished with plovers' eggs round 

the edge. 

Minced chicken, with ham or tongue, can be 

made into croquettes, breadcrumbed and fried, or 

into rissoles, folded in thin paste and fried. The 

latter are sometimes coated with broken vermicelli, 

Croquettes de volaille aux trujfes are made with 
chopped truffles instead of ham or tongue, and 
are served with truffle sauce. Dressed with 
tongue and served in a white sauce with 
chopped tongue, they are called Croquettes de 
volaille a Vecarlate. 

Pclitcs bombes a la Eeine are little moulds of chicken 
forcemeat. They may be served cold, set in 
aspic, as Chaudfroid en aspic a la Eeine. 

Petites bombes a la Princesse are moulds made of 
chicken forcemeat with croquette preparation 
in the centre, and are served with white sauce 
and a vegetable garnish. 

Crepes a la Eeine are small pancakes folded over 
chicken croquette preparation, cut in halves 
and served in a crown. 

Dormers de volaille are chicken dormers the whites 



86 MENUS MADE EASY. 

of hard-boiled eggs filled with chicken force- 
meat; served with spinach or any vegetable 
garnish, and a white sauce with chopped ham. 

Quenelles de volatile are quenelles of chicken force- 
meat. They are poached and served with a 
dressed vegetable, or dipped in white sauce, 
breadcrumbed and fried. Au Supreme, they 
are served with Supreme sauce. 
En demi deuil, half of them are rolled in chopped 
truffles ; dressed in a crown, with white sauce 
and chopped truffles. 

A Vecarlate, they are dressed alternately with 
glazed slices of tongue of the same size, and 
served with Supreme sauce. If a Eussian 
tongue is used, they are called a la Russe 
instead of a Vecarlate. 

Boudins de volatile a la Lucullus are quenelles of 
chicken forcemeat with a piece of puree of 
truffles in the centre of each; served in a 
croustade, or shape of fried bread, with Alle- 
mande sauce. 

Boudins de volatile a la Richelieu are oblong pieces 
of quenelle forcemeat, dressed in a crown with 
Perigueux sauce. 

Cigarettes a la Reine are made of chicken forcemeat 
with white sauce and chopped truffles ; pieces 
the shape of cigars, breadcrumbed and fried. 

Rissolettes de volatile a la Pompadour are diamond- 
shaped sandwiches of the preparation for 
chicken croquettes with truffles, between layers 
of chicken forcemeat ; dipped in batter and fried. 



ENTRIES. 87 

Timbales a la Pahlen are small moulds lined with 
macaroni, filled with a white forcemeat veal 
or fowl and a black forcemeat of truffles, etc., 
in the centre. 

Ravioles a la Napolitaine are little pieces of chicken 
or game forcemeat wrapped in paste ; arranged 
in a circle with alternate slices of Parmesan 
cheese ; baked, and served with brown sauce. 

Croustades de beurre a la Due de York are little 
croustades of butter, thickly breadcrumbed 
and fried ; the butter removed, and the cases 
filled with a puree of fowl with dice of stewed 
cucumber; served with plovers' eggs on the 
top. 

Timbale de Nouilles is a mould lined with paste, 
filled with German paste, minced chicken, 
grated cheese, etc. 

Timbale a la Champenoise is filled with minced 
chicken, anchovies, gherkins, truffles, etc., with 
white sauce and wine. 

Foie gras a V aspic is a mould of aspic with pieces 

of foie gras in it. 
Foie gras can also be dressed with truffles in 

little patties, as Petite pates a la Montglas; or 

larded with pieces of truffle, braised, and served 

with truffle sauce as Foie gras a la Perigueux. 

DUCKS. 

Filets de canetons aux petits pois are fillets of 
roast ducks dressed in a circle, with stewed 
peas in the centre. A la Macedoine, they 



88 MENUS MADE EASY. 

are served -with a vegetable Macedoine ; a la 

Bigarade, with Bigarade sauce. 
Filets de caneton farcis. A boned duck covered with 

forcemeat of fowl, cut in pieces the shape of 

fillets, and dressed in a crown with a vegetable 

garnish in the centre. 
Caneton a la DiaUe is a roast duck cut up and 

devilled served in a sharp sauce with mustard 

and cayenne. 
Aiguillettes de canetons aux oranges are slices cut 

from the breast, dressed in a circle with a 

compote of oranges in the centre, and orange 

sauce. 

The legs of roast ducks, in a sauce of stock and 
wine with shallots, etc., are served as Salmis de 
cuisses de canetons. 
Salmis de caneton a VAmencaine is a salmis of duck 

in a brown sauce with black currant jelly. 
Cotelettes de canetons a la Portugaise are cutlets 

made of minced duck, breadcrumbed and 

fried; served with a dressed vegetable and 

tomato sauce. 
Rissoles de caneton a la Careme are little round 

rissoles of duck in brioche paste. 
Timbale de caneton a la Valencienne is a steamed 

mould of minced duck, served in an orange 

sauce, garnished with slices of oranges. A 

la Milanaise, it is steamed in a mould lined 

with macaroni, and is served in a white sauce 

with grated cheese. 



ENTREES. 89 



GOOSE. 

The legs of a roast goose are cut in pieces, fried 
with slices of onion, and served with Piquante 
sauce as Quartiers, or cuisses, d'oie a la Lyonnaise. 
Fricassee d'oie aux pommes is a fricassee of goose, 

served with a puree of apples in the centre. 
Chaud/roid d'oie a Vlndicnne is curried goose, served 

cold with rice. 
Ragout d' abatis a V Orient are stewed giblets, served 

with savoury rice, and a curry sauce with 

olives and gherkins. 

TURKEY. 

The pinions of a Turkey as 

Ailerons de dindon, or dinde, a la puree de celeris 
are boned, and served in a circle with a puree 
of celery in the centre. 

a la Ste. Menehould are boiled in stock with wine, 
etc., coated with the sauce, breadcrumbed 
and broiled. 

Escalopes de dinde en blanquette, or Blanquette de 
dinde, are slices cut from the breast of a roast 
turkey, served in white sauce with cream, 
etc. With the addition of slices of ham, it 
is called au jambon. Dressed with chestnuts, 
it is called a la Mancelle ; or garnished with 
poached eggs, a la Heine. 

Supreme de dinde a la Victoria. Little slices served 
in Supreme sauce, garnished with poached 
eggs and croutes of fried bread. 



90 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Emince de dinde a Vltalienne are slices served with 
Italian sauce and gherkins. 

Chartreuse de dinde is an ornamental mould of 
mixed vegetables, filled with minced turkey 
and white sauce. 

Medallions de dinde a la Financiere are made with 
the legs of a turkey. They are boned, stuffed 
with forcemeat and braised; cut in slices, 
coated with a puree of chestnuts, and served 
with chestnut sauce or a Financiere garnish. 
This dish can also be made with slices of a 
galantine of fowl or turkey, and can be served 
cold with salad and aspic. 

Abatis de dinde a la Chipolata are the giblets stewed 
and served with Chipolata garnish. 

PIGEONS. 

Fillets of Pigeons are served as 
Filets de pigeons a la Duxelle coated with Duxelle 
sauce, breadcrumbed and fried; served with 
Provencale sauce and mushrooms. 
a la Parisienne spread with forcemeat, bread- 
crumbed and fried ; dressed on fried croutons 
of bread, with a brown puree of cucumbers in 
the centre. Served with brown sauce and a 
Macedoine garnish, they are called a la 
Duchesse. 

a la Moderne coated with liver forcemeat, 
breadcrumbed and fried; served with tomato 
sauce and dressed spinach. 
Cotelettes de pigeons a la Czarina are fillets 



ENTRIES. 91 

breadcrumbed and fried, and a small piece 
of bone stuck in each to imitate cutlet bones ; 
served with Czarina sauce. This dish may 
be served a Vltalienne with Italian sauce, or 
with any vegetable garnish. 

Cotelettes de pigeons a la Mazarine are pigeons 
cut in halves, spread with forcemeat, bread- 
crumbed and fried; served with tomato sauce. 
They are also cut in halves and boned, with 
the exception of the leg bones, stuffed, bread- 
crumbed and broiled, and served as Cotelettes 
de pigeons a la Financiere, with a Financiere 
garnish. 

Compote de pigeons a VAlgerienne are pigeons cut 
up, stewed, and served with a savoury brown 
sauce and pickled plums. 

Chaudfroid de pigeons a la Castillane is made of 
pigeons, boned, stuffed with forcemeat, and 
braised ; cut in slices, masked with brown game 
sauce, and served cold with a compote of dried 
cherries, garnished with aspic. 

GAME. 
VENISON. 

Hachis de venaison is hashed venison. 

Venison Cutlets, saute and dressed in a crown, 
are served as 
Cotelettes de venaison aux olives with brown 

sauce and olives; aux champignons with 

mushrooms. 



92 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Cotelettes de venaison a VAmericaine are served 

with a rich Espagnole sauce. 
au jus de groseilles with Poivrade sauce and red 
currant jelly. 

Eouelles de cerf a la St. Hubert are slices of fillet 
of venison, larded, and cooked in brown sauce 
with wine, slices of gherkins, etc. ; served 
with a compote of French plums. 

Cotelettes de chevreuil sautees are cutlets of roe- 
buck cooked in butter, with wine, stock, mush- 
rooms, etc., and served in the sauce. 
sautees sauce Poivrade are saute, and served in 

Poivrade sauce with pickled mushrooms. 
a la Bohemienne are soaked in marinade, bread- 
crumbed and broiled ; served in brown sauce 
with some of the marinade, currant jelly, etc. 

Civet de chevreuil is jugged roebuck. 

Slices from any joint are served in Piqtiante 

sauce with currant jelly, etc., as E 'mince de chevreuil. 

For Salmis de chevreuil a la Sultane, the meat is 
soaked in marinade, stewed, and served in 
a brown sauce with port wine and pickled 
sultanas. 

HARE. 

Lievre, or levraut, saute is cut in pieces, saute, 
and served in a sauce of broth and wine with 
mushrooms, etc. 

Civet de lievre is jugged hare; a la St. Hubert, 
it is served with a compote of cherries, and 
a rich sauce with wine and chopped truffles. 

Filets de lievre, or levraut, are fillets of hare fried 



ENTREES. 93 

aiid dressed in a circle with a brown sauce. 
They are also piques larded and braised, 
and served with Poivrade sauce. Served 
with tomato sauce, they are piques sauce 
tomates. A la Bourguignotte, they are cut in 
halves, larded and braised ; dressed in a crown 
with a brown sauce, bacon cut in dice, young 
onions, etc. 

Cotelcttes de lievre a la Daupliine are slices cut from 
the fillets with a small piece of bone stuck 
in each, breadcrumbed and fried ; served with 
Piquante sauce and chopped olives. Arranged 
alternately with little cutlet shapes of rich 
hare stuffing, and served with a game sauce, 
garnished with mushrooms and button onions, 
they are called a la Chef. 

For Turban de lievre a la Peronne, the fillets are 
dressed in the same way, and arranged in a 
circle alternately with quenelles of forcemeat 
of hare ; white sauce with vinegar and pickled 
onions. 

Jjjudins de lih-re. Kolls of forcemeat of hare, 
breadcrumbed and browned. Aux cerises, they 
are garnished with stewed cherries, j 

RABBITS. 

Cut in joints, Babbits are served as 
Lapereau, or Lapin, saute aux fines herbes saute, 

and served in fine-herbs sauce. 
saute aux truffes with brown sauce and slices 



94 MENUS MADE EASY. 

of truffles; or aux olives, substituting olives 

for the truffles. 
Lapereau, or Lapin, a la Venitienne larded, 

braised in oil and wine with veal and garlic, 

and served with the sauce. 
a la Suisse fried in batter. 
en kari, or a la Madras curried and served 

with rice. 
en gibelotte stewed with onions, bacon, wine, 

etc. ; served in the sauce with mushrooms. 
en papillate boned, coated with a stuffing of 

bacon, mushrooms, etc., and broiled in papers. 
The backbone with the fillets, cut in sections, 

larded, and braised, is served as Grenadins 

de lapin or lapereau, with brown sauce and 

spinach. 
Cotelettes de lapereau a la Soubise are made with the 

legs, cut in two, boned, spread with forcemeat 

and served with Soubise sauce. 
Filets de lapereaux aux concombres are fillets of 

roast rabbits in a white sauce with slices of 

cucumber. 
a la Valenciennes are dressed in a crown with 

white sauce, cream and mushrooms. With 

alternate pieces of ham, they are called a 

Vecarlate. 

They are also served a la Musulmane larded 
and braised ; dressed in a crown with curry sauce, 
and rice in the centre. 
Turban de lapereau a la Douariere is composed of 

small fillets larded and braised; served with 



ENTRIES. 95 

quenelles of forcemeat of rabbit in the centre, 
and brown sauce with wine, etc. 

Lapereau en salade. Fillets of roast rabbits soaked 
in oil and vinegar; served cold on a salad, 
garnished with hard-boiled egg, beetroot, etc. 

Escalopes de lapereau au fumet. Fillets cut in oval 
slices, and arranged with a little slice of truffle 
on each piece; covered with a white sauce 
made of rabbit, and baked. Aux pointes 
d'asperges, the slices are served in a white 
sauce with asparagus. 
For Fricassee de lapereau the rabbit is cut up and 

cooked in a white sauce with mushrooms, etc. 

Supreme de lapereau a VIndienne is a white curry 
of rabbit. It may be served cold as a Cliaud- 
froid. 

Boudin de lapin is a poached roll of rabbit force- 
meat ; served with mushrooms or truffles, in 
brown sauce. It is also cut in pieces and 
dressed on a border. 

a la Bichelieu. A roll of forcemeat of fowl, 
truffles, etc., thickly covered with forcemeat 
of rabbit, breadcrumbed and broiled; served 
with Perigueux sauce. 

Cotelettes de lapereau a la Maintenon are cutlet 
shapes of minced rabbit, breadcrumbed and 
fried, and served in a brown sauce with wine. 
a la Duchesse Marie are cutlet moulds of rabbit 
cream, coated alternately with chopped ham 
and chopped truffles ; served with white sauce 
and a vegetable garnish. 



96 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Petits cannelons de lapereau are little rolled pastry 
cases filled with minced rabbit. 

Chartreuse a la Mikado is a preparation of minced 
rabbit, steamed in a mould lined with force- 
meat and decorated with rings of different 
coloured vegetables. 

Timbales de semoule au chasseur are small moulds 
of semolina, breadcrumbed and fried, filled 
with forcemeat of rabbit and puree of mush- 
rooms. 
Many of the ways in which chickens are dressed 

are also suitable for rabbits. 

PHEASANT. 

A roast Pheasant, cut up, is served with Salmis 
sauce and mushrooms or truffles, as Salmis de 
faisan. Aux pruneaux it is garnished with stewed 
prunes. 

Faisan au veloute de gibier is served in a white 
game sauce ; a la puree de gibier in a puree of 
game sauce, 
a la Bohemienne is served in a rich brown sauce 

with chopped ham and mushrooms, 
a la bonne femme is cooked with square pieces of 

ham, slices of Portugal onions, etc. 
Fillets of pheasants are served as 
Filets de faisans piques aux legumes larded and 
braised ; dressed in a crown alternately with 
stewed pieces of cucumber of the same size ; 
Jardiniere garnish in the centre. 
a la Comte de Brabant larded and braised; 



ENTREES. 97 

arranged alternately with slices of bacon 

round a pyramid of Brussels sprouts. Fumet 

of game sauce. 
Filets de faisans a la Marquise half of them larded 

and braised, and half breadcrumbed and fried ; 

arranged alternately, with cocks' combs in the 

centre, and white game sauce, 
a la Maintenon very small fillets coated with 

a white sauce with chopped mushrooms, etc. ; 

broiled in papers, and served with gravy. 
Chaudfroid de filets de faisans is a cold entree of small 

fillets of roast pheasants coated with a game 

sauce, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs. 
Gcdantine defaisan aux truffes is a pheasant boned, 

and stuffed with game forcemeat with truffles, 

etc. ; braised, and served cold with aspic. 
Boudins de faisan a la Richelieu are oval-shaped 

pieces of forcemeat of pheasant, breadcrumted 

and fried ; served with Eichelieu sauce. 
Quenelles of forcemeat of pheasant, dressed in a 
crown with game sauce and mushrooms or truffles, 
are called Quenelles defaisan en turban. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Perdreaux en ragout, or en gibelotte, are cut in 
joints, stewed and served in a rich game sauce. 
Roast partridges, cut up, are served as Salmis de 
chasseur in a sauce of oil, wine, lemon, etc. 

As Salmis chaudfroid de perdreaux, the joints arc 
masked with Salmis sauce and aspic jelly ; served 
cold with a garnish of aspic. 

H 



98 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Filets de perdreaux aux petits legumes are fillets 
of roast birds, dressed in a crown, with young 
onions, carrots and turnips cut in shapes, 
and game sauce. For a Chaudfroid de filets de 
perdreaux, the fillets are dressed with alternate 
slices of tomato; garnished with aspic, and a 
puree of game in the centre. 

Cutelettes de perdreaux a la Bacchante are fillets 
with a piece of bone stuck in each, bread- 
crumbed and fried; served in a white game 
sauce with raisins, juice of grapes, etc. They 
are also served a la Douariere, with quenelles 
of partridge in the centre, and game sauce. 
Epigram/me de perdreaux aux champignons is com- 
posed of fillets, half of them saute, and half 
larded and braised; served with game sauce 
and mushrooms. 

For Epigramme de perdreaux a la Perigord, the 
fillets are dressed alternately with quenelles of par- 
tridge; served with chopped truffles in a game sauce. 
Escalopes (thin round or oval slices) cut from 
the fillets, are served as Perdreaux en escalopes, or 
Saute de perdreaux, in a white game sauce with 
mushrooms, etc. If truffles are substituted for the 
mushrooms, the dish may be called Saute de per- 
dreaux aux truffes. 

Chartreuse de perdreaux is an ornamental mould of 

vegetables, filled with larded and braised 

partridges, pieces of sausage, dice of bacon, etc. 

Pain de perdreaux is a puree of partridge steamed 

in a mould ; served with brown game sauce. 



ENTRIES. 99 

Pctits pains de perdreaux a la Dauphine are little 
moulds of a puree of partridge with truffles ; 
served in a brown sauce with wine, mush- 
rooms and asparagus points. 

Fritot de perdreaux a la creme are fritters of a 
puree or cream of partridge fried in batter. 

Perdreaux en souffle, or Omelette soufflee de perdreaux, 
is made of a puree of roast partridges with 
eggs, etc., and is baked in a souffle dish or in 
small paper cases. 

GROUSE. 

Eoast grouse, cut up, are dressed as 
Grouse a la Ailsa covered with a game sauce, 

sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned, 
a la Commodore the joints coated with force- 
meat of grouse, and dressed in a pyramid with 
a rich game sauce. 

For Salmis de grouse aux truffes they are served 
in a rich salmis sauce with slices of truffles ; a la 
St. Hubert, with cherries. 

Salade aux grouses the joints masked with salmis 
sauce and aspic ; dressed on a salad with 
Mayonnaise sauce, garnished with hard-boiled 
eggs, etc. 

The fillets are served as Filets de grouse a la 
Chanccliere, dressed in a crown, with small quenelles 
of veal in the centre, and game sauce. 

Black-game and Ptarmigan are dressed like 
grouse. 



100 MENUS MADE EASY. 



DUCK. 

Boast wild ducks, cut in joints, are served as 
Canards, or Canetons, sauvages en salmis, with a 

salmis sauce. 

a la bigarade with bigarade sauce. 
a la Muette in a rich salmis sauce with wine 

and truffles. 
The fillets as- 
Filets de canetons sauvages au fumet de gibicr are 

served with fumet of game sauce. 
a Vessence served with a brown game sauce, 

port wine, shallots, etc. 
a la Syrienne dressed alternately with slices of 

fried bread spread in a dome shape with the 

livers with butter, etc. ; served with brown 

game sauce and olives. 

TEAL. 

Teal are dressed in the same way as wild ducks ; 
also as 

Sarcelles a la puree de chajnpignons cut in joints 
and arranged in a circle with a puree of mush- 
rooms in the centre ; served with a macedoine 
garnish, they are called a la macedoine. 
Filets de sarcelles aux anchois are fillets of teal 
with stock and grated Parmesan, a fillet of 
anchovy laid on each, sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs and Parmesan, and browned. 
a la Toulouse are dressed in a crown, with fumet 
of game sauce, pickled mushrooms, etc. 



ENTRIES. 101 

Filets de sarcelles a la moderne are spread with 
forcemeat of game, and served with a brown 
game sauce. 

WOODCOCKS. 

Salmis de becasses the birds cut up and served 

in salmis, or fumet of game, sauce. 
an chasseur served in a game sauce with wine, 
mushrooms, etc. ; the insides spread on crou- 
tons, and arranged round the dish. 

Chaudfroid de becasses the joints masked with 
brown game sauce, and brown meat jelly ; 
served cold. 

Filets de becasses a la Lucullus. Fillets coated 
with forcemeat, and served on a border with a 
thick puree of woodcocks piled in the centre, 
and game sauce round. 

a la Talleyrand are dressed in a crown, with the 
insides spread on croutons of fried bread of 
the same size as the fillets. Fumet of game 
sauce with truffles. 

en canape are laid on croutons of bread and 
covered with a stuffing of the trail with bacon, 
etc. ; served with a game sauce. 

Crousiade de becasses a la Comtesse is a low oval 
croustade, or shape of fried bread, filled with 
a puree of woodcocks ; the fillets dressed on 
the top alternately with cocks' combs. 

SNIPES. 
Snipes are dressed in the same way as wood- 



102 MENUS MADE EASY. 

cocks, but are cut in halves where woodcocks are 

filleted. They are also served as 

Becassines a la bonne louche, filled with a force- 
meat of foie gras and bacon; dressed on a 
forcemeat border, covered with forcemeat and 
baked ; served with truffle sauce. This is 
sometimes called a la Superlative. 

QUAILS. 

Cailles aux laitues are braised, and served with 
stewed lettuces. 

aux petits pois are'roasted with vegetables, and 
served with stewed peas in white sauce. 

aux truffles are stuffed with the livers, truffle, etc., 
and are served with Perigueux sauce. 

a la Beaconsfield wrapped in slices of bacon, 
braised, covered with a puree of peas, and 
served with mushrooms in a rich brown sauce. 

a la Lucullus boned, stuffed with foie gras and 
truffles, and baked in paper cases with truffle 
sauce. 

a la bonne bouche are stuffed with foie gras and 
braised. 

au delice are boned, stuffed with foie gras and 
braised; served cold, masked with a white 
sauce, and garnished with truffles and pista- 
chios. 

a la Financiere cut in halves and dressed on a 
border, with Financiere garnish in the centre. 
They are also served aux concombres, with 
stewed pieces of cucumber, and a puree of 



ENTREES. 103 

cucumbers in the centre ; or as a Chaudfroid, 
masked with game sauce and served with 
aspic, and salad, or any vegetable garnish. 
For Compote de caillcs they are cooked in wine 
and stock with slices of sweetbread, ham, truffles, 
etc. ; garnished with croutons. They may also 
be dressed in a vol-au-vent with Toulouse garnish, 
as Vol-au-vent de cailles. 

PLOVERS. 

Plovers can be dressed in any of the ways that 
are suggested for woodcocks. The fillets of roast 
birds are served as 

Filets de pluviers aux champignons in, a circle 
alternately with croutons spread with the 
trail ; game sauce with mushrooms. 

LARKS. 

A salmis of larks is called Mauviettes en salmis. 
Mauviettes grillees are broiled ; served on slices of 
fried bread. 

a la chipolata are cooked with Chipolata garnish. 

en caisses are boned, stuffed with forcemeat and 
baked in paper cases. 

en cdtelettes are boned, spread with forcemeat 
and served with brown sauce. 

Turban de mauviettes a la Parisienne. The larks 
are boned, stuffed with game forcemeat and 
truffles, and braised ; dressed in a crown, with 
small quenelles of veal in the centre, and a 
game sauce. Dressed alternately with large 



104 MENUS MADE EASY. 

quenelles of game forcemeat, they are called 
aux quenelles. 

Chaudfroid de mauviettes boned, stuffed with force- 
meat, coated with brown sauce and served 
with aspic. Set in little moulds of aspic, they 
are called en aspic. 

Croustade de mauviettes boned, stuffed, and baked 
in a croustade of fried bread with Perigueux 
sauce and mushrooms. 

Vol-au-vent de mauviettes boned, stuffed, and 
served in a vol-au-vent case with white game 
sauce and mushrooms. 

ORTOLANS. 

Ortolans a la Perigourdine are served in truffles, 

of which the centres have been cut out. 
en caisses are baked in small paper cases with 
Perigueux sauce. 

Blanquette de gibier aux champignons is composed 

of small pieces of game in a white sauce with 

mushrooms. 
Mayonnaise de gibier a V aspic is a mayonnaise of 

game, garnished with aspic. 
Quenelles a la Chasseur are quenelles of game, 

served in a white sauce with mushrooms or 

truffles. 
Creme de gibier is a puree of game, steamed in a 

mould, or in several small moulds. As Petites 

cremes a la Moderne, they are served in a white 

sauce with chopped truffles. 



ENTREES. 105 

Boudins a la Chasseur are little moulds of minced 
game, or game forcemeat, served in a game 
sauce with mushrooms. 

P'etites bouchees de gibier are little patties of game. 

Pelits pates a la puree de gibier are patties filled 
with puree of game. 

Kromeskis a la ttusse are made with pieces of any 
kind of forcemeat or croquette preparation, 
wrapped in slices of bacon, dipped in batter, 
and fried. A la Nemours, a coating of a purea 
of mushrooms is substituted for the slices of 
bacon. 

Cassolettes de riz are patties of rice, breadcrumbed 
and fried; filled with forcemeat or croquette 
preparation. 

Timbale a la Milanaise is Milanaise garnish in a 
shell of paste. Another dish of the same 
name is composed of a preparation of minced 
game or chicken, steamed in a mould lined 
with macaroni. 

Fritot a I'Ecossaise are Scotch fritters of minced 
game with mushrooms, etc., dipped in batter 
and fried. 
Game is also dressed in a croustade, or raised 

pie, in souffles, chaudfroids, etc. 



106 MENUS MADE EASY. 



CHAPTER V. 

REMOVES OB RELEVES. 
BEEF. 

A ROAST sirloin of beef is called Aloyau a la broche. 

For Aloyau de boeuf a la Provenqale the sirloin 
is larded and spread with a stuffing of marrow, 
anchovies, garlic, etc. ; roasted, and served with 
Piquante sauce. 

The upper part of the sirloin, boned and rolled, 
is served as 

Aloyau en cannelon roasted; sauce raifort, with 
horseradish sauce. 

braise a la royale larded and braised. 

a la Printaniere braised, and served with young 
vegetables. 

a la Portugaise larded and braised ; served with 
stewed Portugal onions and brown sauce. 

a la Godard braised, and served with slices of 
sweetbread, mushrooms, etc. 

The fillet, or undercut of the sirloin, is usually 
cut out and dressed as a separate dish. 

It is roasted and served as Filet de boeuf roti, 
and may have a vegetable garnish Macedome, 



REMOVES OR RELEVfi's. 107 

Jardiniere, or Printaniere and be named accord- 
ingly. Aii jus & orange, it has orange sauce. 
Filet de boeuf au macaroni is garnished with 

macaroni. 
a la Napolitaine larded, roasted, and served in 

a savoury brown sauce with Tarragon vinegar, 

currant jelly, raisins and French plums. 
au jus de groseilles larded, soaked in marinade 

and roasted; served in a brown sauce with 

currant jelly. 
pique aux legumes printaniers larded, roasted 

and glazed ; served with young vegetables and 

brown sauce. 
a la Milanaise larded, roasted, and served in 

white sauce with macaroni, etc. Served with 

macaroni dressed with tomato sauce and 

grated cheese, it is a la Romaine. 
a la Toscane larded and braised; served with 

tomatoes and stuffed artichoke bottoms. 
a la Bohemienne larded, soaked in marinade, 

and roasted or braised ; served with fried slices 

of potatoes, and Poivrade sauce with pickled 

onions, pickled mushrooms, and olives; or 

cold, with tomato sauce, currant jelly, etc. 
Braised, it is served as Filet de boeuf braise; 
a la sauce Madere, it has Madeira sauce; a la 
Paysanne, it is garnished with vegetables. 

A Bound of beef as 
Rouelle de boeuf bouillie is boiled ; a VAnglaise it 

is served with carrots and turnips and small 

suet dumplings. 



108 MENUS MADE EASY. 

The Brisket as 

Piece de bceuf a la Flamande is braised and 

garnished "a la Flamande." 
a la Bonne Femme is stewed. Served with fried 
onions, it is called a la Bourgeoise. 

Noix de boeuf braisee is a braised chump of beef. 
Bibs of beef, rolled and braised, are served as 

Cotes de boeuf braisees a la puree de tomates with 
tomato sauce ; or a la Milanaise with 
macaroni. 

aux ratines larded and served with carrots ; 
a la Portugaise with Portugal onions ; a 
UEspagnole with button onions. 

Piece de boeuf a la St. Florentin is rolled, and served 

with Bobert sauce. 
Beef or Bump Steak as 

Bifteck a la Frangaise is broiled, and served with 

fried potatoes. 

en ragout is stewed ; with onions, it is a la bonne 
bouche. 

Chateaubriand grille is a broiled fillet steak. A la 
Russe, it is served with horseradish sauce; a la 
Bruxelloise with a puree of Brussels sprouts. 
It is also served aux huitres with oysters ; 
au beurre d'anchois garnished with anchovy 
butter ; and aux pommes frisees with fried 
potato ribbons. As Filet de bceuf a la Mirabeau, 
it is larded, broiled, and served with Maitre 
d'hotel butter, anchovies, olives, and water- 
cress. As Cannelon de boeuf, it is stuffed, rolled, 
and braised. 



REMOVES OR RELEV^S. 109 

Boiled beef is served with a Flainande garnish 
as Piece de boeuf bouillie a la Flainande. Garnished 
with sausages, bacon and cabbages, it is garni de 
cJioux. A la Macedoine, it is served with a Mace- 
doine garnish. 

Rosbif a VAnglaise is roast beef, served with horse- 
* radish and Yorkshire pudding. 
Boeuf braise aux haricots verts is braised beef served 

with French beans ; a la Jardiniere with 

Jardiniere garnish. 
a la Mode is stewed with vegetables. 
a la Hollandaise is rubbed with treacle, etc., 

salted, smoked and boiled. It is eaten 

cold. 
an chasseur is spiced beef. It may be served 

with Chevreuil or Poivrade sauce, or with 

currant jelly. 
froid aux Indes is served cold with Indian 

pickles ; a VAmericaine with a tomato salad. 
Fricandeau de boeuf is a beef fricandeau. It can 

be served with macaroni, a la Milanaise ; or 

cold, with salad, a la Jardiniere. 
Slices of a beef fricandeau can be dressed for an 
entree in a sharp brown sauce, with currants and 
sultanas, as Grenadins de boeuf a la Romaine. 
Pate de boeuf aux pommes de terre is a pie of minced 

beef and mashed potatoes, with a crust of 

mashed potatoes. 

Pate chaud de boeuf is a hot beef pie. 
Pate de bo3uf aux huitres is a beef- steak pie with 

oysters. 



110 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Pate de tete de bceuf is an ox-cheek pie. This is 

also called Pate a la Hesse. 
Ox-tongue, or Langue de bceuf, boiled and glazed, 
is served a la prima donna with a border round it 
of quenelles of veal, and white sauce with Brussels 
sprouts. A la Princesse, it is covered with Mayon- 
naise sauce, and garnished with salad and cucumber. 

VEAL. 

A Fillet of veal is dressed as 
Rouelle de veau aux petitspois larded and roasted ; 
served with peas in white sauce. 

a la Pontoise stuffed, roasted, and served cold 
with Tartare sauce. 

a la potagere larded and roasted ; served with 
carrots cut in shapes, onions, cauliflower, and 
brown sauce. 

a la jardiniere stuffed with a piece of bacon, 
roasted, and served with a Jardiniere garnish. 

a la Princesse stuffed with forcemeat, mush- 
rooms, etc. ; roasted, and served with slices of 
tongue and bacon/and white sauce with cream. 

a la Versaillienne stuffed with a tongue and 
forcemeat ; roasted, and served with quenelles, 
slices of stewed cucumber and white sauce. 

en tlwn larded with fillets of anchovy, pickled, 
and cooked in oil. 

A Chump of veal, larded and braised, is served as 
Noix de veau a I'oseille, or aux epinards, on a puree 
of sorrel or spinach ; a la bourgeoise with 
brown sauce. 



REMOVES OR RELEVfs. Ill 

Noix de veau a la Trianon with a puree of 

chestnuts, and clear gravy. 
a la potagere is braised white, and served in a 
white sauce with peas and pieces of cauli- 
flower, 
a la Montpensier is larded with strips of truffles 

and bacon, and braised. 

It is also served a la puree de champignons, on a 
puree of mushrooms ; or aux petite legumes, with 
stewed young carrots, turnips and onions, and 
brown sauce. 

For Veau en fricandeau, veal is larded on one 
side with thick strips of bacon, on the other side 
with fine ones, and braised. 

The Loin as 

Longe de veau is roasted. Served a la Strasbour- 
gienne, it has slices of Strasbourg or other 
bacon round it, and Poivrade sauce. 
It is served cold au jambon, with oval slices of 
ham and croutons of aspic ; or a la dame blanche, 
with a sauce over it of Bechamel and aspic with 
Tarragon vinegar, etc., garnished with Indian 
pickles. This is sometimes called a la Princesse. 
Longe de veau a la Montglas is braised, and served 
with clear gravy or half glaze, garnished with 
strips of chicken, tongue, truffles, and mush- 
rooms. 

Larded and braised, it is served piquee braisee, or 
a la Eoyale ; a la macedoine de legumes with a 
vegetable macedoine. A la Cambaceres, it has a 
border round it of small slices of tongue, truffles 



112 MENUS MADE EASY. 

and cucumber; white sauce with wine, chopped 
mushrooms, etc. 

The under part of a loin is roasted and dressed 
as Filet de veau a la cremiere, with poached eggs, 
and Bechamel sauce with cream, etc. 
Filet de veau a la Chipolata is a veal steak braised, 
and served with balls of sausage-meat, fried 
bacon, and tomato sauce. It is also served 
with capsicum sauce, sauce piment. 
A Neck of veal dressed as 

Carre de veau au naturel is stewed, and served in 
the sauce with chopped gherkins and vinegar. 
A la Bourgeoise, it is stewed with vegetables. 
A la Milanaise, it is braised, and served with a 

Milanaise garnish. 

Eoasted, it is served a la puree de celeris, with 
stewed celery, and celery sauce. 

A la St. Clair, with slices of fried ham and 
tomato sauce. 

A la Bruxellaise, with Brussels sprouts and white 
sauce. 

A la Printaniere, with spring vegetables. 
A Breast of veal as 
Poitrine de veau rotie is roasted ; a la Soubise, it 

is served with Soubise sauce. 
Boned, stuffed, rolled, and braised, it is served 
a la Jardiniere with young vegetables ; or a la 
Chipolata with Chipolata garnish. 

A Knuckle of veal as 

Jarret de veau a la Mancelk is stewed and served 
with chestnut*. 



REMOVES OR RELEVES. 313 

Galantine de veau is a galantine of veal. It is 
served cold, garnished with aspic. 

Calf s head is served as 
Tete de veau au naturel, stewed, and garnished 

with the tongue and brains. 
farcie stuffed with forcemeat, etc., and stewed. 
Served in a white sauce with currants and 
sultanas, it is a I'Allemande. 
en tortuecni in pieces and boiled with vegetables 
and turtle herbs basil, marjoram, thyme, bay 
leaves, etc. ; served in the sauce with wine 
and mushrooms. 

Veal and ham pie is called Pate de veau aujambon. 

Pate a Vltalienne is a veal and ham pie, with yolks 

of hard-boiled eggs, and small balls of stuffing. 

Timbale a la Franqaise is a pie of layers of slices of 

larded veal, ham and forcemeat, in a shell of 

paste. 

Pate de pieds de veau a I'Ecossaise. A pie of calf s 
feet minced with suet and apples, with gravy 
and wine. 

Pate chaud de godiveau is a hot pie of veal or fowl 
forcemeat. 

MUTTON. 

Hanche de mouton is a roast haunch of mutton. 
It maybe served an jus de groseilles with brown 
sauce, currant jelly, etc. 

a la Bohemienne soaked in marinade, roasted, 
and served in a brown sauce with pickled 
onions, olives, currant jelly, etc. 



114 MENUS MADE EASY. 

A leg or neck of mutton is also dressed in this 
way. 

A fore-quarter of Southdown mutton is called 
Quartier de pre-sale. Served with haricot beans, 
it is a la Bretonne. 

A Saddle of mutton as 
Selle de mouton a VAnglaise or en broche is roasted. 

au laver served with laver and a brown sauce. 

rdtie a lavenaison it is hung a fortnight, roasted, 
and served in a brown sauce with wine, etc. 

a la Mirabeau roasted, and served in Poivrade 
sauce with chopped gherkins and beetroot. 

a la Polonaise. The meat of a roast saddle is 
cut out, minced, and put back again with 
brown sauce, etc., keeping the shape by a wall 
of mashed potatoes ; it is sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs, and browned. Dressed in this way, 
with a puree of onions over the mince, and 
served with Soubise sauce, it is called a la 
Marseillaise. 

A Leg of mutton as 

Gigot roti is roasted ; a la Portugaise, it is served 
with Spanish onions. 

a la Russe roasted, and the cooking finished in 
burning brandy; served with the gravy and 
brandy. 

a la Provenqale garlic inserted into the leg; 
roasted and served with Bretonne sauce. 

en chevreuil larded, soaked in oil and roasted ; 
served with Poivrade sauce. 



REMOVES OR RELEVE*S. 115 

Gigot a la Flamande boiled, and served with car- 
rots and mashed turnips. It is also served with 
caper sauce sauce aux cdpres. 

a la Eoyale is larded and braised; a la Jar- 
diniere with a Jardiniere garnish ; a la 
Napolitaine with macaroni and Neapolitan 
sauce ; a. la Soubise with Soubise sauce and 
potato croquettes. 

de sept heures is boned, and stewed for seven 
hours with vegetables. 

farci is boned, stuffed and roasted ; served with 
tomato or Soubise sauce. 

a la Bretonne is stuffed and braised, and served 
with Bretonne sauce and haricot beans. 

a la Polonaise is braised, cut in slices without 
severing them from the bone, and a stuffing 
put between each slice. 

A Neck of mutton as 

Carre de mouton is roasted; bouitti boiled; aux 
cdpres served with caper sauce ; a la Niver- 
naise with carrots and mashed turnips, and 
caper sauce in a sauce-boat. 

au riz cooked with rice, slices of onion and 
dice of ham. 

a VIrlandaise is braised and served with onions 
and potato croquettes. 

a la Dustan is served with a puree of haricot 
beans ; a la Jardiniere with a Jardiniere 
garnish; or with any dressed vegetable or 
puree, naming it accordingly. 

a la Provenqale spread with ^i pure'e of onioms. 



116 MENUS MADE EASY. 

breadcrumbed and browned; served in a 
highly seasoned brown sauce. 

Carre de mouton a la SouUse larded, braised, 

and served with Soubise sauce. 
au chevreuil larded, soaked in marinade and 
braised ; served with Chevreuil sauce and 
potatoes cut in little balls. If stewed prunes 
are substituted for the potatoes, it may be 
called a VAllemande. 

a VAlgerienne larded, soaked in marinade and 
roasted; served in brown sauce with some 
of the marinade and French plums. 

Carres de mouton a la legumiere are two necks 

roasted, put together like a saddle, and the 

space between filled up with mashed potato, 

garnished with other vegetables. 

A Loin of mutton may be dressed in many of 

the ways suggested for necks ; also as 

Cannelon de mouton boned and rolled. A la Polo- 
naise, it is larded, rolled, and braised, and 
served with stuffed mushrooms. 

Carbonade de mouton boned, larded, and rolled 
with forcemeat in the centre, braised and 
glazed ; served with a dressed vegetable, 
Soubise or Piquante sauce, or a la Nivernaise 
with stewed carrots. A la Sultane, it has a 
rich savoury stuffing with raisins or sultanas, 
and is served in a brown sauce with orange 
juice and chopped ham. 
As Faux Canard, it has a duck stuffing of sage 

and onions ; apple sauce may be served with it, 



REMOVES OR RELEVES. 117 

Poitrine de mouton aux cdpres is a breast of mutton 
braised, and served in Piquante sauce with 
capers. Boned, rolled, braised, and garnished 
with vegetables, it is called Cannelon de mouton 
a la Windsor. 

A shoulder of mutton boned, stuffed, and roasted 
or braised, is served with Piquante sauce as Epaule 
de mouton farcie. En ballon it is boned, larded, 
made into the shape of a balloon and braised. 
This is sometimes called en musette. 

A mutton steak, broiled or stewed, can be served 
as Filet de mouton a la Soubise with Soubise 
sauce ; a la Bretonne with haricot beans ; or with 
any dressed vegetable. Soaked in marinade and 
braised, it is served a la Polonaise with stuffed 
mushrooms. 

A mutton pie made with potatoes and onions, 
covered with potato paste, is called Pate de mouton 
a VIrlandaise. 

Pate a VEcossaise is a sheep's head pie. 
Boudin, or Casserole, de mouton is a mutton pudding 
in suet crust. Aux rognons, it is dressed with 
kidneys ; a la Milanaise with macaroni. 

LAMB. 

Hanche d'agneau is a roast haunch of lamb. It 
is sometimes called Bosbif d'agneau a la broche. 
The Fore-quarter as 
Quartier d'agneau a la broche is roasted. 

a Vhoteliere roasted, and served in a sauce of 
Maitre d'hotel butter with cream. 



118 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Quartier d'agneau farci a stuffing put between 
the neck and shoulder, roasted and served 
with brown sauce. I 

Cotes d'agneau a la Chanceliere is a roast fore- 
quarter, the shoulder cut out, and the meat 
of it minced with ham, truffles, etc., mixed 
with white sauce, and put into the space the 
shoulder was cut from ; breadcrumbed, 
browned, and served with white sauce. 

Selle d'agneau rotie is a roast saddle of lamb. It 
is served a VIndienne with Indian sauce and 
Indian pickles; and a la bonne fermiere with 
lamb's fry, breadcrumbed and fried, and mint 
sauce. 

braisee a V Allemande boned, stuffed and 
braised; served with Allemande sauce and 
any vegetable garnish. 

a la Villeroi is dressed in the same way, covered 
with Allemande sauce, and sprinkled with 
breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan. 
a la Menagere is dressed like saddle of mutton 
a la Polonaise, with a white instead of a brown 
sauce, and the meat cut in small square 
slices. 
A Leg of lamb may be dressed the same as 

a leg of mutton ; also as 

Gigot d'agneau bouilli aux epinards boiled and 
served on spinach; or a la Palestine with 
a puree of Jerusalem artichokes. 
The Loin is roasted, or dressed en Canndon, in 

the same way as mutton. 



REMOVES OR RELEVES. 119 

The Breast as 
Poitrine d'agneau auxpetits pois is stewed with peas. 

a la Turque is boned, rolled and braised, and 
served with rice cooked in stock with saffron, 
currants and sultanas. 

The Neck as 

Carre d'agneau au cresson, is roasted, and served 
with watercress; aux legumes printaniers 
with spring vegetables. 

a la BruxeUaise is braised and served on a puree 
of Brussels sprouts. 

aux cerises is served with cherry sauce. 

a la Douairiere is braised, and served in a white 
sauce with cocks' combs, and braised lambs' 
breads cut in slices. 

The Shoulder, or 

Epaule d'agneau, is roasted; served a la Maitre 
d'hotel with Maitre d'hotel sauce; or aux 
pointes d'asperges with asparagus heads and 
white sauce. Boned, larded, braised and 
glazed, it is served cold as glacee. 

a la Montmorency boned, stuffed with force- 
meat, larded and braised; served with Tou- 
louse garnish. It is also dressed a la Polonaise 
in the same way as a saddle of mutton. 
Pate cliaud d'agneau is a hot pie of lamb cutlets, 
with potatoes, white sauce, etc. 

PORK. 

Selle de pore frais is a roast saddle of pork. A 
la Eobert it has Robert sauce. 



MENUS MADE EASY, 



A Leg of pork as 
Gigot de pore bouilli is boiled with the carrots, 

turnips and parsnips with which it is served. 
a la Piemontaise is roasted and served in a highly 

seasoned brown sauce, with Chili vinegar and 

olives. 
a VAllemande is pickled, boiled, and served with 

stewed red cabbage and pickled cabbage, 

carrots and turnips, and Poivrade sauce. 
Echinee de pore rotie is a roast chine of pork. 
Cotes de pore is a spare-rib of pork. A la Diplomate, 

it is braised and served in a brown sauce with 

sausages and stuffed potatoes. 
Carre de pore a la Remoulade is a roast neck 

served in Remoulade sauce with chopped 

Indian pickles. 
a VAlsacienne is braised and served with pickled 

cabbage, potato croquettes, and sausage balls. 
a la Eusse braised, and served in orange sauce 

with sultanas. 
Longe de pore rotie is a loin roasted. A la Soiibise, 

it is served with Soubise sauce. 
Pate a la Leicestershire is a pork pie in a crust 

made with lard. 
Pate a la Devonshire is a pie of layers of slices of 

pork, bacon and apples. 
Croustade a la Chipolata is a raised pie filled with 

sausage-meat, bacon and chestnuts, and brown 

sauce. 

Salt pork boiled and served with cabbages and 
other vegetables, is called Petit sale aux choux, 



REMOVES OR RELEVES. 121 

or a la Fermiere ; aux panais, it is served with 

parsnips. 

Cochon de lait is a sucking pig. It is plainly 
roasted; or stuffed with truffles, etc., a la 
Perigueux ; or with chestnut and sausage- 
meat stuffing, and served with Chipolata 
garnish, a la Chipolata. 

a la Savoyarde stuffed with sausage-meat, rice, 
etc., and roasted ; served with little sausages, 
and a white sauce with wine and mushrooms. 
en galantine is a braised galantine of sucking 

Pig- 
Pdtefroid de cochon de lait is a cold sucking pig pie. 

A Ham as 

Jambon a la broche aux epinards is roasted, and 
served with spinach. If a York ham is used, 
the dish is called Jambon d'York a VAnglaise. 

braise is braised. Served with sausages and peas 
puddings, it is called a la Polonaise. 

aux cerises is braised, and served in a brown 
sauce with wine and stewed cherries. 

a la Maillot is braised in wine; served with 
vegetables and Madeira sauce. 

glace a la Jardiniere is glazed, and garnished "a 
la Jardiniere." It is also served a la Mace- 
doine, aux petits pois or aux haricots verts, with 
a garnish of Macedoine, green peas or French 
beans. 

Fromage de cochon is brawn. 

A haunch of boar, or Cuissot de sanglier, may be 
served a la Eouale, larded, and braised in wine and 



122 MENUS MADE EASY. 

water with vegetables, etc. Aux cerises, it is served 

with cherry sauce. 

Filet de sanglier au chasseur is a fillet of boar, 

soaked in oil, etc., and braised ; served with 

Poivrade sauce. 
Hure de sanglier is a boar's head. 

POULTRY. 

A capon boiled in stock with bacon, onions, etc., 
is served in the sauce as Chapon au gros sel. Stuffed 
with truffles, etc., and roasted, it is served a la 
Perigueux, with Perigueux sauce ; or a la Piemon- 
taise, with tomato sauce and raviolis. 

A fowl boiled and served with Bourgeoise sauce 
is called Poule au pot. 

A fat pullet, or poularde, is roasted, and served a 
la Financiere with Financiere garnish ; or aux 
legumes printaniers with stewed young vegetables 
and brown sauce. 

A la Grimod de la Reyniere, it is filled with a 
stuffing of the liver with truffles, mushrooms, etc., 
and roasted in slices of bread and ham. 

A I'Anvers, it is larded, roasted, and served with 
a compote of apples, and balls of forcemeat, and 
brown sauce. 

A la Eegence, it is stuffed and braised, and served 
with truffle sauce. 

A la Lucullus, it is stuffed with liver forcemeat 
with truffles, roasted, and served with a garnish of 
tomato rice with cheese, and truffle sauce. 

A la Montmorency, it is larded, stuffed with liver 
forcemeat, braised and glazed. 



REMOVES OR RELEVE*S. 123 

A la Guillaume Tell, it is boned, stuffed and 
braised ; set in a mould with the stock, garnished 
with truffles, and served cold. 

For Pilau de poularde it is cooked with spice, 
onions, rice, etc. ; masked with the rice, and 
garnished with hard-boiled eggs. 
Poulet a la sauce is a boiled chicken served with 

white sauce. It may be au celeri with celery 

sauce, au macaroni with macaroni, or with 

any vegetable garnish. Served cold, covered 

with a white sauce and garnished with strips 

of tongue and truffles, it is called a la Belle 

Vue. 
au riz is boiled with rice. A la Turque, the 

rice is dressed with saffron, currants and 

sultanas. 
a la Genoise is boiled, and served in a white 

curry sauce with cheese and macaroni. 
a la Chivry is cooked in mirepoix with slices of 

bacon, and served in Eavigote sauce. 
a la Mona cooked with wine, tomato sauce, 

Portugal onion and bacon. 
a la d'Escars larded, and braised in stock and 

wine with bacon, vegetables, etc. 
roti a la peau de goret has a crackly skin from 

melted lard having been dropped on it while 

roasting. 
a la Milanaise stuffed, roasted, and served with 

Milanaise garnish. 
a la Hambourgeoise stuffed with butter, chopped 

parsley, etc., and roasted. 



124 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Poulet a Vestragon has a stuffing made of the 
liver, bacon, tarragon, etc. ; it is roasted, 
and served in a white sauce with chopped 
tarragon. 

a la Eoyale is stuffed and braised. 

a la Chevaliere is larded, braised, and served in 
a rich white sauce with mushrooms. 

a la Carmelite the back and breast bones re- 
moved, it is stewed and served in rich brown 
sauce with button onions, olives, and artichoke 
bottoms cut in slices. 

a la St. Cloud is larded with strips of truffle and 
bacon, braised, and served in brown sauce 
with wine. 

a Vltalienne filled with a stuffing of the liver 
with bacon, mushrooms, etc. ; roasted, and 
served in a white sauce with oil, wine, tarra- 
gon, etc. 

a la sauce tomates is stuffed, braised, and served 
with tomato sauce ; aux champignons with 
mushroom sauce. 

Petits poulets a I'Indienne are young chickens 
stuffed with rice, breadcrumbs, curry powder, 
etc. ; braised, and served with rice and Indian 
sauce, garnished with Indian pickles. 
Petits poussins are very young chickens. They 
are larded and braised, and served a la Veni- 
tienne in a white sauce with wine, cocks' 
combs, chopped mushrooms, truffles, etc. ; or 
a la Chevaliere, in white sauce with button 
onions and mushrooms. 



REMOVES OR RELEVES. 125 

Pate chaud de volatile au jambon is a hot chicken 

and ham pie. 
Pdtefroid de volatile aux truffes is a cold chicken pie 

with forcemeat and truffles. 
Galantine de poulet is a galantine of chicken. 

DUCKS. 

Ducks are roasted and served au jus d'orange, 
with orange sauce ; or braised and served aux 
petite pois, or aux champignons, with stewed peas 
or mushrooms. 
Canards, or canetons, a la Mancelle are braised 

and served with chestnuts. 
aux groseilles vertes are roasted or braised, and 

served with green gooseberry sauce. 
au Pere Douillet are braised in wine and stock, 

and served in the sauce. 
a la St. Michel braised in wine and broth, 

and served with mushrooms, etc., in the 

sauce. 
a VEspagnole braised with vegetables, oil, and 

garlic ; served in a brown sauce with olives, 
a puree verte are stewed, and covered with a puree 

of green peas. 

a la Provence stewed and served with mush- 
rooms and olives. 
en surprise the breasts are cut out, minced, and 

put back again with highly seasoned brown 

sauce ; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and 

browned. 
a I'Andalouse are boned, stuffed with sausage 



126 MENDS MADE EASY. 

meat and braised ; served with slices of toma- 
toes, and artichoke bottoms. 
They are also served aux navets, aux choux, au 
celeri, or aux olives, with stewed turnips, cabbages, 
celery, or olives. With a puree of turnips, they 
are a la Nivernaise. Au vert pre, they are stewed 
with green herbs. 

GOOSE. 

Oie rotie is a roast goose, served with apple sauce 

in a sauce-boat. 
a la Mount Vernon is served with baked apples, 

and brown sauce with currant jelly. 
braisee a la Jardiniere is braised, and served with 

brown sauce and Jardiniere garnish. 
a la Chipolata served with Chipolata sausages. 
a la puree d'oseille served with Sorrel sauce. 
a I'orange with slices of oranges and orange 

sauce. 
rotie, farcie de marrons stuffed with the liver, 

chestnuts, etc., and roasted. 
a la Portugaise stuffed with slices of Portugal 

onions, etc., roasted, and served with stewed 

Portugal onions and a brown sauce, 
a- VArlesienne stuffed with onions, truffles, chest- 
nuts, etc., braised in mirepoix, and [served in 

tomato sauce. 
a la Dauphinoise stuffed with chestnuts, etc., 

braised, and served in brown sauce with orange 

juice and shreds of orange peel, 
a la Royale boned, stuffed and braised, and 



REMOVES OR RELEVES. 127 

served in a brown sauce with anchovy and 

port wine. 
Oie en daiibe is stuffed and braised, and is served 

cold covered with the sauce. 
Pate aux abatis d'oie is giblet pie. 
Casserole aux abatis is a giblet pudding. 

TURKEY. 

Dinde rotie is a turkey roasted, and garnished with 

sausages. 

rotie parfaite is stuffed with sausage-meat, chest- 
nuts and truffles, and roasted. 
a la St. James is stuffed with sausage-meat and 

roasted. It has a brown sauce, and is served 

with currant jelly. 
a la imree de celeris boiled, and served with 

celery sauce and slices of fried bacon ; aux 

marrons with chestnut sauce. 
a la Chipolata stuffed with sausage-meat and 

chestnuts, roasted, and served with Chipolata 

garnish. 
iniffee stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, 

roasted, and served with gravy and chopped 

truffles. 

a la Provencale stuffed with onions, bread- 
crumbs, etc., roasted, and served with truffle 

or tomato sauce. 
en daube larded and stewed; served cold, 

covered with the sauce. 
a. la Yorkshire the legs are cut off, it is boned 

and stuffed with forcemeat and a tongue ; 



128 MENUS MADE EASY. 

braised, and served with white sauce and 

vegetables. 
Dinde a la Sultane the breast-bone removed, it is 

larded, roasted and glazed ; served in a brown 

sauce, with sausages, balls of stuffing, and 

tomatoes. 

A young turkey, roasted, is served as Dindonneau 
a la Duchessc, with a puree of cucumbers, garnished 
with quenelles, small pieces of tongue, and French 
beans. 
Galantine de dinde is a braised galantine of turkey ; 

it is served cold. Aux foies gras, it has fat 

livers of fowls added to the forcemeat. 

PIGEONS. 

Pigeons stewed in stock, with bacon, mushrooms, 
onions, etc., are served in the sauce as Pigeons en 
compote. 
Pigeons a la Crapaudine are ^breadcrumbed and 

broiled ; served with Piquante sauce. 
en ragout d'ecrevisses, or a la Mcrveilleuse, are 

stewed, and served in a rich white sauce with 

mushrooms and crayfish. 
a I'Algerienne are stewed and served with French 

plums. 
a la Princesse are stuffed with foie gras and 

mushrooms, stewed, and served with Espagnole 

sauce. 
aux petits pois, or a la St. Germain, are stuffed, 

and stewed with green peas. A la Nivernaise, 

they are served with mashed turnips. 



REMOVES OR RELEV1SS. 129 

Pate chaud de pigeons, or pigeonncaux, is a hot 

pigeon pie. 
Pate de pigeons a VAnglaise is a pigeon pie with 

collops of beef steak. 



GAME. 
VENISON. 

The haunch of venison, or Hanche de venaison, 
ranks first among removes. 

Dressed a la Corinthienne, it is larded, soaked in 
marinade and roasted ; served in a brown sauce 
with port wine, currants, currant jelly, etc. 
Quartier de venaison is a fore-quarter of venison. 
Gigot de cerf, or venaison, is a leg of venison. 
Filet de cerf, or venaison, is a fillet of venison. 
Epaule de cerf, or venaison, is a shoulder of venison. 
Carre de cerf, or venaison, is a neck of venison. 

The fore-quarter of a roebuck is served as Quartier 
de chevreuil; the leg, as Gigot de chevreuil; the 
saddle, as Cimier de chevreuil. 

Dressed a la St. Hubert, it is soaked in marinade, 
larded, braised, and served in a rich brown sauce 
with prunes. 

A venison pasty is called Pate de venaison. 

HARE, 

Lievre, or Levraut, sauce Poivrade, is larded, 

roasted, and served with Poivrade sauce, 
au jus de groscilles larded, roasted, and served 
in brown sauce with currant jelly and olives. 

K 



130 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Lievre, or Levraut, rotie a la Finnoise larded, 

roasted, and served in a sauce of stock, vinegar, 

sour cream, etc. 
a la Matanzas soaked in marinade, stuffed -with 

a forcemeat of fowl, and braised. 
en daiibe is boned, and stewed in a jar with 

bacon, veal, game stock, etc. ; it is served 

cold, in the jar. 
liable de lievre roti is a baron of hare, larded and 

roasted. A la St. Denys, it is stuffed, braised, 

and served with truffle sauce. 
Pate de lievre a VEcossaise is a pie of hare stewed 

with wine, etc. 
Pain de lievre a la Yorkshire is a pie of layers of 

slices of hare, ham, and hard-boiled eggs, with 

game jelly ; it is served cold. 



RABBITS, 

Lapereaux a VAnglaise are stewed, and served with 

Soubise sauce. 
grilles are flattened and broiled j served with 

butter and chopped parsley* 
a la sauce are boiled, and served in white sauce. 
aux petits pois are cooked in a white sauce with 

onions, green peas, etc; If mushrooms are 

substituted for the peas, they are called a la 

Tavcrniere. 
a la Jardiniere are cooked in white sauce, with 

young onions, carrots and turnips cut in little 

balls, and peas. 



REMOVES OR RELEV12S. 131 

Lapereaux a la villagcoise stuffed, roasted, and 
served in melted butter sauce with shallots, etc. 

aux groseilles vertes are roasted or stewed, and 
served with green gooseberry sauce. 

Galantine de lapin is made of rabbit boned, 
stuffed, and braised. It is served cold, garnished 
with the sauce in a jelly. 

Rabbit pie is served as Pate chaiid de lapereaux. 
If made in a raised pie dish, it is called Lapereaux 
en terrine. 



PHEASANTS. 

Faisans a la Soubise are braised pheasants covered 
with Soubise sauce ; aux marrons with chest- 
nut sauce. 

a la puree de gibier are larded, braised, and 
served with puree of game sauce. 

a la Fontaincblcauihe breasts are larded in a 
square ; they are braised in white stock with 
lettuces, sausages, etc., and served with the 
lettuces and sausages, and brown sauce. 

a la Gitana stewed with bacon, slices of Portu* 
gal onions, tomatoes, wine, etc. 

a la Flamande stewed with bacon, sausages, 
cabbages, etc. ; served with the cabbages 
pressed and cut in shapes, carrots and turnips, 
and Poivrade sauce. 

a Vetouffade larded and stewed; served with 
game sauce. 

a la Beauharnais braised, and served in truffle 



132 MENUS MADE EASY. 



sauce, with mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, and 

asparagus points. 
Paisans a la Victoria stuffed with a forcemeat of 

oysters, bacon and herbs, stewed, and served 

with oyster sauce. 
auxfoies gras stuffed with foie gras, ham, truffle, 

etc., and roasted. 
truffles a la Piemontaise stuffed with truffle 

stuffing, roasted, and served with a sauce of 

aspic and wine with slices of truffles. 
a la Bohemienne stuffed with foie gras, truffle, 

etc. ; cooked in mirepoix, and served in the 

sauce with truffles and foie gras. 
(1 la Connauglit stuffed with chestnut stuffing, 

roasted, and served with a watercress salad. 
a la Saint-Cloud boned, filled with a stuffing 

of the livers with partridge, truffles, etc. ; 

roasted, and served on toast with Italian sauce 

and truffles. 
Pate chand defaison aux truffes is a pie of pheasant 

with forcemeat and truffles. 

PARTRIDGES. 

Partridges braised in stock with bacon, cabbages, 
etc., are served as Perdreaux aux choux, with the 
cabbages and slices of bacon. 
Perdreaux braises are larded and braised. 
a Vetouff'ade larded, and stewed in stock and 

wine with onions, etc. 

a la Parisienne cooked in a brown sauce with 
wine, and served in the sauce. 



REMOVES- OR RELEvSs. 133 

Perdreaux a VAnglaise stuffed with the livers 
and butter, and roasted. A stuffing of shallots, 
breadcrumbs, etc., is inserted under each joint, 
and they are served in a sauce of stock and 
wine. 

truffles a la Perigord stuffed with truffle stuffing 
and roasted; served in a white sauce with 
truffles. 

a la Mecklenlourg stuffed with chopped French 
plums, game forcemeat, etc. ; braised in stock 
and wine, and served in the sauce with tomato 
sauce and currant jelly. 

a la Sarbarie stuffed with truffle stuffing, and 
larded ornamentally with truffles ; braised, 
and served with Financiere sauce. 

a la Pompadour stuffed with foie gras and 
truffles, larded, braised, and served with 
truffle sauce. 

11 la Cussy boned, with the exception of the leg 
bones, and stuffed with a forcemeat made of 
sweetbread, truffles, mushrooms and cocks' 
combs ; braised, and served with truffle sauce. 

(i la Victoria the breast bones removed, stuffed 
with game forcemeat, larded and braised; 
served with brown sauce, wine, etc. 
Pate de perdreaux au chasseur is a pie of partridges 
with veal and bacon, mushrooms, and game 
sauce. 

GROUSE. 

Grouse are dressed like pheasants a la Piemon- 



134 MEN.US MADE EASY, 

taise. A la Kinnaird, they are stuffed, roasted, and 

served with Financiere garnish, 

Pate de grouse a I'Ecossaise is a pie of grouse with 

beef steak, etc. 
Grouse en timbale is a grouse pie baked in a French 

raised pie mould. 

BLACK GAME. 

As Coqs noirs, or Coqs de bruyere, a la royale, 
blackcocks are larded, braised, and served with a 
white sauce and little rissoles of game. 

A la Rob Roy, they are stuffed, roasted with 
sprigs of heather and whiskey, and served with 
melted-butter sauce. 

Grouse are also dressed in this way. 

SNIPES. 

Snipes cut in halves, baked on layers of bacon, 
w r ith butter, are served cold as Becassines en terrine 
a VIrlandaise. 
Boudin de becassines a VEpicurienne is a pudding oi 

snipes, with mushrooms, truffles, etc., and 

wine, in suet crust. 

Quails, Plovers, and Larks, may be dressed in hot 
pies, and served as Pates cJiauds de cailles, pluvicrs, 
or mauvicttes ; or in cold pies, as Pates froids. Any 
small birds may be used for these pies. 
Pate de mauviettes a la Melton Mowbray is a lark pie 

with veal and bacon, mushrooms, truffles, etc. 
Pate de mauviettes a la Moderne is a raised pie of 

boned larks stuffed with beef forcemeat. 



REMOVES OR RELEVE's, 135 

Larks or other small birds are dressed as Boudin 
a la Chipolata, with Chipolata garnish in suet crust. 
Pate froid de gibier is a cold pie made of the meat 

of several kinds of game. 
Pate a la Yorkshire is composed of goose, hare, 

grouse, and snipes, with spices, sausage-meat, 

and slices of ham. 



136 MENUS MADE EASY. 



CHAPTER VI. 

BOASTS, OB BOTS. 

BLACK Diver Macreuse, Dressed an chocolat, they 
are served covered with chocolate. 

Black game Coqs noirs, or Coqs de bmyere. 

A la Stockholm, they are larded on one side, and 
barded with vine leaves on the other side. 

Bustard Outarde canepetiere. 

A la Russe, they have a slice cut in the breast 
and a stuffing inserted, and are served with brown 
sauce. 

Capon Chapon. Served with watercress, it is 
called au cresson. 

Chicken Poulet. A la Forrester, it is covered 
with watercress leaves, mustard and cress, etc. 

Barde, it is barded roasted with a slice of bacon 
over the breast, and served with the bacon on it. 

Roti a la Stael, it has a white crust from being 
sprinkled with flour during the roasting. 

Spring chickens Petits poulets. 

Young chickens Petits poussins, 

Duck Canard. 



nOASTS, OR ROTS. 137 

Duckling Cancton. Served with orange sauce, 
it is called an jus d' orange or a la bigarade. 

Goose Oie. 

Green goose Oison or Oisillon. 

Grouse Grouse. 

A la bonnie lassie, they are served on brown bread 
toast with melted-butter sauce. 

Guinea fowl Pintade. 

Piquee, they are larded ; bardee, barded. 

Hare Lievre. 

Hazel hen Gelinottc. 

A la Victoria, they are stuffed and larded, and 
are served with a brown sauce. 

Lapwings Vanneaux. 

Larks Mauvicttcs. 

Leveret Levra itt. 

Ortolans Ortolans. 

Partridges Perdrix or Perdrcaux. "Perdrix" 
is usually applied to older birds. A brace of par- 
tridges is Accolade de perdreaux. Perdreaux de 
Russie are Russian partridges. 

Peahen Paon ne. 

Pheasant Faisa n . 

Pigeons Pigeons. 

Young pigeons Piyconneaux. 

Bardes aufcnillcs de rignes, they are roasted with 
vine leaves and slices of bacon over the breasts. 

Pintail Pilet. 

Plovers Pluviers. 

Prairie birds Ponies dc Prairie. 

Fat Pullet Poularde. 



138 MENUS MADE EASY, 

Quails Cailles. They are bardees aux feuilles 
de vignes in the same way as pigeons. 

Rabbit Lapin. 

Young rabbit Lapereau. A brace of young 
rabbits Accolade de lapereaitx. 

Shovellers Rouges de riviere. 

Snipes Becassines. 

Teal Sarcelle. They are served au cresson with 
watercress; and a la Biyamde, with Bigarade 
sauce. 

Turkey Dindon (m.), or Dinde (f.). 

Turkey poult Dindonneau. They are pique, 
larded; barde, barded; and farci, stuffed with 
forcemeat and truffles. 

Widgeon Canard siffieur. They are sometimes 
called Macreuses. 

Wild Duck Canard, or Caneton, sauvage. 

Woodcocks Bccasses. Served a, la Picmontaise, 
they have game sauce ajid slices of truffles, 



( 139 ) 



CHAPTER VII. 

VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 
ARTICHOKES. 

ARTICHOKES plainly boiled are served with butter 
sauce in a sauce boat as Artichauts sauce au leurre, 
or with Dutch sauce, sauce Hollandaise. Artichoke 
bottoms as 
Artichauts a la "bonne femme are boiled and served 

with white sauce. 

a la Bmxcllaise are cut in quarters, cooked in 

white sauce, and arranged in a border with 

Brussels sprouts and Maitre d'hotel sauce in 

the centre. 

auveloute are dressed in the same way, and served 

in the sauce with cream and yolks of eggs. 
a la Lyonnaise cooked in butter and served in 

brown sauce with onions, etc. 
a Vltalienne cooked in stock, wine, etc., and 

served in Italian sauce, 
/arm stuffed, and cooked with oil and bacon, 

etc. 

a V essence de jambon stuffed, braised, and served 
covered with a puree of ham. 



140 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Artichauts a la Valentine stuffed with braised 

chestnuts and white sauce, covered with 

whipped white of egg and baked; served on 

croutons with tomato sauce. 
a la Marquise stuffed with chopped mushrooms, 

ham, herbs and breadcrumbs, and cooked in 

wine and stock. 
a la Barigoule stuffed with chopped bacon, 

mushrooms, etc., braised and served with 

Italian sauce. 
farcis a I'ltaliennc the stuffing is made of onion, 

breadcrumbs and grated cheese, 
a la Hollandaisc stuffed with a puree made from 

the leaves, and served with Hollandaise sauce. 
en mayonnaise served cold, coated with Mayon- 

naise sauce and sprinkled with chopped 

parsley. 
Creme d'artichauts is a puree of artichokes with 

cream, steamed in a mould ; served with 

cream sauce. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

Topinambours a Vltalicnne are cut in fancy 

shapes, cooked wdth butter, stock, etc., and 

glazed ; served with Italian sauce. They are 

also sautes in thin slices. 

A puree of Jerusalem artichokes with cream, 

sprinkled with grated, Parmesan and browned, is 

called Topinambours au gratin. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Plainly boiled, they are called Aspcrgcs en 
branches. 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 141 

They are served a la sauce with white sauce ; 
an beurre with butter sauce ; a I'huile with oil 
and vinegar; a la Tartarc, or a la Hollandaise 
with Tartare or Hollandaise sauce. 
Asperges a la Piemontaise are served in white sauce 

with grated cheese. 

a VEspagnole are served with poached eggs 
sprinkled with chopped herbs, and tomato 
sauce. This is also called a la Colbert. 
c,i Mayonnaise are served cold in Mayonnaise 

sauce. 

tit la Nigoisc are served cold in a sauce made of 

hard-boiled yolks of eggs with oil and vinegar. 

Cut up small, they are dressed en petits pois 

stewed and served in a white sauce; as Pointcs 

d'aspcrges an jus stewed in stock; or a la creme 

served in Bechamel sauce ; a la Pompadour in 

a sauce of butter, yolks of eggs, vinegar, etc. 

FRENCH BEANS. 

Cut in strips and boiled, they are served as 
Haricots verts a VAnglaise with butter and 

chopped parsley. 

a la Maitre d' hotel with Maitre d'hotel sauce. 
a la Poulette with Poulette sauce. 
an beurre noir with black-butter sauce. 
aux fines herbes in a butter sauce with chopped 

parsley and shallots. 

sautes are saute in butter with chopped parsley. 
HancotspanacliesaUMaUred'hotd are French beans 
and haricot beans with Maitre d'hotel sauce. 



142 MENUS MADE EASY. 

HARICOT BEANS. 

White haricot beans, boiled, are served as 
Haricots blancs a la Maltre d'hotcl, or a la 
Bretonne with Maitre d'hotel or Bretonne 
sauce; au leurre de piment with capsicums 
pounded with butter; a la moelle with beef 
marrow, etc. 

aujus are stewed in stock. 

They are also served en puree with stock ; or as 
Puree de haricots a la creme a puree with cream. 
Haricots rouges a la Bourguignonne are red haricot 

beans cooked in stock with onions, wine, etc. 
Flageolets may be dressed au jus stewed in 
stock ; a la Poulette boiled and served in Poulette 
sauce ; and in many of the ways suggested for peas. 

BROAD BEANS. 

Peves de marais a I'Anglaise are boiled, and served 
with parsley and butter. 

a la creme are boiled in milk with chopped 
parsley ; served in the sauce with cream, etc. 

a la Eomaine are stewed, and served with a 
puree of tomatoes. 

a la Mentone are served in Soubise sauce, gar- 
nished with little rolls of bacon breadcrumbed 
and fried, and croutons sprinkled with grated 
cheese. 
Puree defeves is a puree of beans. 

BEETROOT. 

Cut in slices, beetroot is served as 
Betteraves a la creme boiled in a white sauce. 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 143 

Betteraves a la Poitevinc served in brown sauce 

with onion, spice, etc. 

a la Chartreuse. Sandwiches of a slice of onion 
between slices of yellow beetroot, dipped in 
batter and fried. 

Broccoli is dressed in the same way as cauli- 
flower. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Choux de Bruxelles a la Maitre d'hotel are boiled, 
and served in Maitre d'hotel sauce. Sautes, 
they are saute in butter with lemon, etc. A la 
Frangaise, they are dressed with alternate 
layers of a white sauce with cream and grated 
cheese, covered with breadcrumbs and hard- 
boiled yolk of egg, and garnished with croutons. 

CABBAGE. 

Choux farcis the heart is cut out, and a stuffing 

of sausage-meat, etc., put between each leaf j 

it is braieed, and served in the sauce. 

en surprise the heart cut out, it is filled with 

sausage-meat and boiled chestnuts, and stewed* 

CARDOONS. 

Boiled cardoons are served an veloute in white 
sauce; a VEspagnole in brown sauce; or augratin 
covered with breadcrumbs, sprinkled with melted 
butter, and browned. If grated cheese is mixed 
with the breadcrumbs, they are called a Vltalienne. 
Gardens au jus are stewed, and served in brown 
sauce with beef marrow. Garnished with 



144 MENUS MADE EASY. 

pieces of toast spread with beef marrow, they 
they are called a la mo'elle. 
A puree of cardoons with cream, etc., garnished 
with croutons, is served as Puree cle cardons aux 
croutons. 

CARROTS. 

Boiled and cut in shapes, carrots are served as 
Garottes a la Bechamel, in Bechamel sauce, 

garnished with croutons ; or a la poulette 

glazed, and served in Poulette sauce. 
a la Flamande are served in a tomato sauce, 

garnished with pieces of cooked tomatoes on 

croutons. 
a la menagere are cut in slices and served in a 

white sauce with wine, herbs, etc. 
aux pctits pois cut in dice and served with peas 

in a white sauce. 
au sucre mashed, and dressed with milk, sugar, 

eggs, etc., the top sprinkled with sugar. 
a VIndienne served in a curry sauce with a 

border of rice, 
a la Maiden are stewed, and served in a vol-au- 

vent with slices of beef marrow, capers, and a 

rich brown sauce. 

Young carrots stewed in white sauce are called 
Petites carottes, or Garottes nouvelles, a la sauce 

blanche. 

Stewed and glazed, they are glacees ; or a VAllc* 
inande, served with Allernande, or brown sauce. 

CAULIFLOWERS. 

Chouxfleurs au gratin are masked with a white 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 145 

sauce with grated Parmesan, breadcrumbed 
and browned. They may also be called an 
Parmesan. 
Chouxfleurs sauce au leurre are served with butter 

sauce ; a la sauce with white sauce. 
a la Eeine served in a rich white sauce with 

chopped ham. 
a la Piemontaise served in a white sauce with 

grated cheese. 

Pieces of cauliflower, masked with white sauce, 
dipped in batter and fried, are called Marinade de 
chouxfleurs. 

Souffle de chouxfleurs a la Baronne is composed 
of pieces of cauliflower in layers with slices of raw 
tomato, covered with cheese souffle mixture, and 
baked. 

CELERY. 

Celeri aujus is stewed in stock. 
a la mo'elle is stewed, and served on toast with 

brown sauce and beef marrow. 
a la creme stewed, and served in a white sauce 

with cream. 
a I'Espagnole stewed, and served in Espagnole 

sauce. 
a la Chetwynd stewed with onions, and served 

on toast with the onions, and Bechamel sauce 

with cream, etc. 
a la Genevoise stewed, covered with white sauce, 

sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, 

and browned. 

L 



146 MENDS MADE EASY. 

Celeri a la Villeroi masked with Allemande sauce, 

breadcrumbed and fried. 
Beignets de celeri are fritters of celery fried in 

batter. They are sometimes served -with 

tomato sauce. 

Celery roots are served with butter sauce as 
Celeri-rave a la sauce au beurre ; stewed and served 
an jus ; or glazed a la deini glace. They are also 
dressed as a Puree de celeri-rave. 

CHESTNUTS. 

Though properly a fruit, a puree of chestnuts 
cooked with stock and wine may be served as a 
vegetable, and called Puree de marrons. 

They are also dressed as a souffle. 

CUCUMBER. 

Slices of cucumber cooked with cream, butter 
and flour are called Concombres a la creme. 
Concombres a la poulctte cut in pieces, and 

cooked with butter and sugar ; served in white 

sauce with cream, chopped parsley, etc. 
farcies a la creme the centres scooped out, they 

are stuffed and stewed; served in Bechamel 

sauce with cream and sugar. 
a VEspagnole cut in short lengths, stuffed, 

stewed, and served with brown sauce. Served 

in white sauce with grated cheese, they are 

a Vltalienne. 
ft la moelle the stuffing is made of breadcrumbs, 

beef marrow, etc. ; they are served with a 

brown sauce; 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 147 
EGG PLANT. 

Aubergines farcies are cut in halves, the centres 
chopped, and put back into the skins with oil, 
brown sauce, etc. ; sprinkled with breadcrumbs 
and browned. 

ENDIVE. 

Chicoree aujm is stewed in stock. 
a la creme is chopped, and dressed with cream, 
white sauce, etc. ; garnished with croutons. 
Garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, it is 
a la Theodora. If the cream is omitted, it 
should be called en puree. 

LEEKS. 

Poireaux an jus are stewed in stock. 

a la Mediterranee are braised, stuffed with sausage- 
meat, breadcrumbed and fried, and served with 
slices of cooked tomatoes. 

LENTILS. 

A puree of lentils with stock, garnished with 
croutons, is served as Puree de lentilles aux croutons. 
Boiled and served in ^white sauce, they are en 
fricassee. 

LETTUCE. 

Lettuce is served an jus, stewed ; or as Laitues 
farcies, the centres cut out, filled with forcemeat 
and braised. 

MORELS. 

Morilles aux croutons are stewed and served on 
buttered toasti 



148 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Morilles a Vltalienne are served in Italian sauce. 
a I'Andalouse are cooked with oil, "wine, hani, etc., 
and served in the sauce. 

MUSHROOMS. 
Champignons a la sauce are stewed, and served in 

white sauce. 

a la Superlative are laid on pieces of toast spread 

with Devonshire cream, and the cream piled 

on the top ; and are cooked in a covered dish. 

a la Milanaise are seasoned with oil and vinegar, 

dipped in beaten eggs with grated cheese, and 

fried. 

a la Bordelaise are soaked in oil, broiled, and 

served in the oil with chopped parsley, etc. 
farcis or au gratin are filled with stuffing, sprinkled 
with breadcrumbs and baked. They may be 
served with brown sauce. 

a la Napolitaine filled with a stuffing made of 
the stalks with herbs, breadcrumbs and grated 
cheese ; baked, and served with gravy. 
For Crodtes aux champignons they are broiled 
and served on toast. 

En fritot, or as Beignets de champignons, they 
are fried in batter with slices of bacon. 

Cut in slices, they are dressed en ragotit with 
broth, chopped parsley, etc. ; or a la creme with 
butter, cream, etc. 

For Puree de champignons they are chopped, and 
served with butter, gravy, etc., garnished with 
croutons. 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 149 

Pctites gelees aux cliampignons are little mushroom 
jellies, served with a garnish of aspic and 
salad. 

ONIONS. 

Stewed Portugal onions are served as Oignons 
an jus. 

Stewed in a white sauce with puree of ham, they 
are en ragout. 

For Oignons farcis the centres are cut out, they 
are stuffed, and braised. 

Small onions served in Poulette sauce are a la 
poulctte. 

An sirop dore they are stewed with butter, sugar, 
etc., and are served in the sauce. 

A puree of onions with stock is called Puree 
(Voignons a la Bretonne. It is garnished with 
croutons. 

PARSNIPS. 

Panais a la Hamelin are dressed in a puree with 
a rich white sauce, covered with green peas. 

PEAS. 
Petits pois a VAnglaise are boiled, and served on 

a lump of butter. 
a la Franfaise are stewed, and mixed with flour 

and butter. 
a la Parisienne boiled with onions, butter, 

sugar, etc., and served with the sauce. 
aujus stewed in stock. 
aux laitues stewed with lettuces. 



150 MENUS MADE EASY. 



Petits pois a Vancienne mode stewed, and served 

with cream and yolk of egg. 
a la Venitienne are served in an onion sauce, 

garnished with slices of tomatoes. 
en cosscs are boiled in their shells. 
They are also served au lard stewed in stock 
with dice of bacon, etc. ; or au janibon with dice 
of ham, young onions, etc. 
Creme a la D'Artois is a cream of green peas. 
Cotclettes de pois a la Comte de Paris are cutlets of 
peas with Soubise sauce, breadcrumbed and 
fried ; served with Soubise sauce, and peas in 
the centre. 

POTATOES. 

Pommes de terre en chemise are boiled in their 
skins. 

Boiled and cut in slices, they are served a 
I'Anglaise with butter ; a la Maitre d'Jwtel in 
Maitre d'hotel sauce ; a la creme in white sauce ; 
au lard in white sauce with dice of bacon. Au 
gratin, they are dressed with white sauce and 
grated Parmesan, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and 
browned ; a la Norvegienne, they are served in a 
cheese sauce. 

a la Parisienne are cooked in butter and water, 

with onions, etc. 
melangees are cut in slices and stewed with slices 

of apples. 

a, la Lyonnaise cut in slices and saute in butter 
with shallot, etc. If oil is used instead of 
butter, they are called a la Provencals. Served 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 151 

in Soubise sauce, sprinkled with chopped 
parsley and grated cheese, they are a la 
Turque. 

Pommes de terre Chateau are cut in oval shapes 
and fried. 

sautees cut in slices and fried. 

a la Macaire are fried potato trimmings. 

frisees are fried potato ribbons or curls. 

pailles are fried potato straws, the size of 
matches. 

farcies, or a la Beaufort the centres are scooped 
out, and filled with forcemeat or minco pre- 
paration ; they are baked and served with 
gravy. 

soujftees baked in their skins ; the potatoes 
mixed with butter, grated Parmesan, eggs, 
etc., put into the skins and browned. These 
souffles may be served in little cases, and 
called Pctits souffles de pommes a laNapolitaine. 
A la Christina, they are made with the addition 
of cream and chopped parsley, etc. 

a Vltalienne are dressed in the same way, but 
the potato pulp is mixed with rice, grated 
Parmesan, etc. They are served in the skins. 

nouvclles a la creme are young potatoes boiled in 

cream with chopped parsley, etc. 
Croquettes de pommes de terre are potato croquettes, 
breadcrumbed and fried. This paste saute in 
small shapes, and dressed in a crown with 
white sauce, is called Pommes a la Duchesse. 
It is also made into quenelles. 



152 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Croquettes de pommes a la BecJiamel are potato 
croquettes with Bechamel sauce. 

A puree of potatoes as Puree de pommes gratinee 
is sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. Mixed 
with white sauce, it is called a la Maria. A la Theo- 
dora, it is garnished with little balls of cucumber. 

In writing a menu, Pommes de terre is usually 
curtailed to Pommes. 

PURSLANE. 

The stalks of Purslane with cinnamon, etc., 
dipped in batter and fried, are called Pourpier en 
friture a la Milanaise. 

SALSIFIS. 

Salsifis a la creme is boiled and served in a white 

sauce ; a la Bechamel, in Bechamel sauce. 
a la moelle stewed, and served with beef marrow 

spread on pieces of toast, and brown sauce. 
a la poulette served in white sauce with cream, 

mushrooms, etc. 

frits soaked in oil, etc., breadcrumbed and 
fried. If the pieces are dipped in batter and 
fried, they are called Beignets de salsifis. 
Coquilles de salsifts is scalloped salsifis served in 

scallop shells. 

Fondues de salsifis are made of a puree of salsifis 
with eggs, baked in little cases, sprinkled with 
chopped parsley and breadcrumbs. 

SEA-KALE. 

Boiled sea-kale served on toast with butter sauce 
is called Choux de mer a la sauce ; a VEspagnole, 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 153 

it is served in Espaguole sauce ; a la Hollandaisc, 
with Hollandaise sauce ; ait jus, it is stewed and 
served with gravy. 

SPINACH. 

Spinach is served a I'Anglaise with butter or 
cream ; a la Franpaise with butter, stock, etc. 
Epinards a VAllemandc dressed with butter, 

cream, breadcrumbs, etc. 
a Vltalicnnc dressed with anchovy butter and 

raisins, garnished with croutons. 
an veloute with veloute sauce, 
a la cremc with cream and sugar. 
ait, jus is served with gravy, garnished with glazed 

croutons. 
au sucre cooked in butter and mixed with sugar, 

etc. 
aux ceitfs is served with poached eggs. This is 

often called a la Colbert. 
Beignets aux epinards are spinach fritters. 
It is also dressed as a souffle and as a cream. 

TOMATOES. 

Tomates/araes or au gratin the centres are cut 
out, they are stuffed, sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs and baked. 

a la Provenpale the centres are mixed with oil, 
chopped onions, etc., put back into the skins 
and baked. 

farcies aufromage are stuffed with cheese mixture. 
These are frequently called a la Napolitaine. 

a la Cardinal are stuffed with anchovy sauce. 



154 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Tomates a la Graham are stuffed with a puree of 

potato. 
a la Caroline are stuffed with savoury rice with 

grated cheese. 

a la, St. Jacques are stuffed with button mush- 
rooms in mushroom sauce. 
a la Toscane are stuffed and braised, and served 

with truffle sauce. 

a V Americaine are raw tomatoes stuffed with 
Mayonnaise sauce with chopped olives, an- 
chovies and tarragon, and garnished with 
aspic. 

en surprise are little round moulds of tomato 
jelly, filled with forcemeat or mince in white 
sauce. 

Tomatoes may be cut in slices, and served a la 
crime, with cream sauce ; or as Cotelettes de tomates, 
breadcrumbed and fried, and served with broiled 
mushrooms and Tartare sauce. 
Souffle de tomates is tomato pulp with eggs, baked 
in small souffle cases. 

TRUFFLES. 

Truffes a. la serviette are cooked in wine and broth, 

and served on a napkin. 
sous la ccndre wrapped in slices of bacon and 

paper, and broiled in hot cinders. 
au vin de champagne cooked with bacon, veal, 

mushrooms, champagne, etc., and served in 

the sauce. 
a la Piemontaise cut in slices, fried in oil with 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 155 

garlic, etc., and served on buttered toast with 
Italian sauce. 

Truffes demi Piemontaise are dressed in the same 
way, substituting a highly seasoned tomato 
sauce with wine for Italian sauce. 
a la Dino. Truffles dressed " au vin de cham- 
pagne " are used for this dish ; the centres 
chopped with forcemeat, etc., put back into 
the shells, braised, and served with truffle 
sauce. 
For Croutes aux truffes, they are cut in slices, 

cooked in brown sauce with wine, and served on 

toast. 

TURNIPS. 

Navets au jus are stewed in stock and served in 

the sauce. 
glaces au sucre cooked with butter, sugar and 

stock, and glazed. 
farcis a la creme are stuffed, stewed, and served 

in cream sauce, 
a la Poulette cut in shapes and cooked in white 

sauce. 

They are also dressed in a puree, garnished with 
croutons, as Puree de navets, and in a souffle. 

VEGETABLE MARROW. 

Potirons, or Giraumons, a la Hollandaise are cut 
in pieces, baked, and served in Hollandaise 
sauce. 

a la Provenqale are cut in halves, fried, and filled 
with a stuffing of onions, breadcrumbs, oil, etc. 



150 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Potirons, or Giraumons, au gratin a puree of 
vegetable marrow with cream, sprinkled with 
breadcrumbs and browned. 

YAMS or SWEET POTATOES. 

Patates au beurre are cooked, cut in slices and 

served with butter, 
a la Frangaise are cut in pieces, and served in a 

sauce of butter, flour, cream, etc. 
For Beignets de patates they are cut in pieces, 
soaked in brandy, dipped in batter and fried. 

SALADS. 

Salade a la Macedoine is composed of separate 

heaps of vegetables, with oil and vinegar. 
de pommes de terre slices of potatoes and beet- 
root, with chopped parsley, etc., oil and 

vinegar. 
de cresson aux pommes watercress and slices of 

potatoes, with oil and vinegar. 
de tomates slices of raw tomatoes with chopped 

shallots, etc., oil and vinegar. 
de choux rouges a la Russe red cabbage, with sauce 

of sour cream, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, etc. 
aux concombres slices of cucumber with oil and 

vinegar. 
aux betteraves slices of beetroot, with chopped 

Portugal onions, oil and vinegar. 
de ckicoree a la Franpaise endive, with oil, 

vinegar and garlic. 
a la Fran$aise lettuce, or any one kind of salad 

only, with oil, vinegar, etc. 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 157 

Salade a VAnglaisc lettuce, celery, beetroot, 
endive, etc., with oil and vinegar. 

a VAllemande slices of potatoes, Brussels 
sprouts, cauliflower and celery, with oil, 
vinegar, etc. 

a ritalienne several kinds of salad and vege- 
tables, with meat or fish, anchovies, olives, 
etc., and Tartare sauce. 

a I'Indienne lettuce and mustard and cress, with 
a sauce of claret with chutney, vinegar and 
spice ; in a border of plovers' eggs, or hard- 
boiled eggs cut in halves. It may be gar- 
nished with curried shrimps and slices of 
lemon, and is served with brown bread and 
butter. 

a la Flamande Dutch herrings, or any dried 
fish, pickled shrimps, apples, beetroot, potatoes, 
etc., with oil and vinegar. 

a I'Espagnole a border of slices of tomatoes, 
and pickled onions with Mayonnaise sauce in 
the centre. 

a la Russe carrots, parsnips and beetroot cut 
in shapes, pieces of fowl or game, anchovies, 
olives, caviar, etc., with oil, vinegar and 
mustard. Another form of Russian salad is a 
mould of vegetables with yolks of eggs, cream, 
puree of spinach, etc. 

a la Suede pickled herrings, beef, apples and 
potatoes, cut in dice, with chopped herbs, 
gherkins and capers, oil and vinegar ; garnished 
with anchovies and olives. 



158 MENUS MADE EASY. 



Salade a la Vienne lettuce with shreds of ham, 
tarragon and chervil, oil and vinegar, etc. 

a VAnvers lettuce with shreds of chicken, ham 
and capsicums, in a Mayonnaise sauce with 
curry powder, garnished with slices of potatoes. 

a la Napolitaine a border of slices of hard-boiled 
eggs and Bologna sausage, and a salad with 
Tartare sauce in the centre. 

a la Rachel shreds of celery and hard-boiled 
whites of eggs, in Tartare sauce with chopped 
herbs ; garnished with the yolks of eggs and 
sausages cut in slices. This is sometimes 
called a la Reine. 

a la Cazanova dice of ham and fish, with celery, 
hard-boiled whites of eggs, etc. Mayonnaise 
sauce with powdered yolks of eggs. 

a la Tartare lettuce, with pickled cucumbers, 
onions, etc., herrings cut in dice, oil and 
vinegar. 

a la Demidoff slices of potatoes and truffles, 
with oil and vinegar, young onions, etc. 

a Madame lettuce, with sauce of oil, vinegar, 
yolk of egg, etc. 

a V Adeline salsifis with Mayonnaise sauce, in 
a border of tomato mayonnaise with aspic ; 
garnished with strips of cucumber and tomato. 

d'Estrees endive and celery in Mayonnaise 
sauce, with a border of slices of potato and 
beetroot. 

a la Pompadour pieces of cauliflower in Mayon- 
naise sauce with cheese^ in a border of slices 



VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. 159 

of potatoes, carrots and leeks. Savoury cream 

sauce. 
Salade a la Jardiniere fine strips of vegetables, 

with oil, vinegar, etc. 
Cerises a la vinaigrette is composed of stoned 

cherries, fillets of anchovies, young onions, 

chopped bacon, etc., \vith oil, vinegar, mustard 

and spice. 
Mayonnaise a la Macedoine, or a la Jardiniere, is 

composed of mixed vegetables with Mayonnaise 

sauce. 
Mayonnaise a la Bretonne shreds of lettuce and of 

fish, with anchovies and olives, and green 

Mayonnaise sauce. 
Mayonnaise de tomates a Vaspic chopped tomatoes 

with Mayonnaise sauce in a border of aspic ; 

garnished with tarragon and olives. 
Mayonnaise de tomates a la Couronne chopped 

tomatoes in Mayonnaise sauce with aspic, set 

in little paper cases. 
Salade a la Duchessc de Fife is a mould of tomato 

puree with aspic and Mayonnaise sauce, 

decorated with hard-boiled egg, and served 

with salad. 
Tinibale a la Macedoine is a mould of aspic, 

decorated with egg, and filled with a vegetable 

Macedoine in Mayonnaise sauce. 
Petites cremcs a la Jardiniere are little moulds of 

mixed vegetables in Mayonnaise sauce with 

aspic. 
Chartreuse de legumes is an ornamental mould of 



160 MENUS MADE EASY. 

mixed vegetables, filled with chopped vegetables 
stewed in brown sauce. 

Kan de legumes is a curry of vegetables. It may 
be served hot or cold. 

Crepes a la Jardiniere are pancakes made with 
chopped vegetables. Crepes aux fines herbcs are 
made with chopped herbs. 

Puree de legumes a la Eomaine is a puree of 
mixed vegetables, garnished with little moulds of 
cheese custard breadcrumbed and fried. 



CHAPTEE VIII, 

EGGS AND OMELETTES. 

THESE are specially useful for luncheon, and for 
dinner when maigre dishes are required. Some of 
them are suitable for savouries. At luncheon they 
are usually served first, as at a foreign dejeuner, 
but they are sometimes introduced as second- course 
dishes. This does not, of course, apply to the 
sweet omelettes. 

Poached eggs, or (Eufs pockes, may be served au 
jus, with brown gravy, garnished with fillets of 
anchovy placed crosswise on each egg ; or au 
jainbon, on oval slices of fried ham, with Poivrade 
sauce. 

So-called " buttered " eggs cooked with butter, 
etc. are served as (Eufs brouilles. 
CEufs brouilles aux pointes d'aspergcs, aux cham- 
pignons, aux truffes, or au jainbon, are dressed 
in the same way, with the addition of asparagus 
cut up, chopped mushrooms, truffles, or ham. 
brouilles a I'Indienne are cooked with butter, 
chopped onion, curry powder, etc. 

M 



162 MENUS MADE EASY. 

CEufs au beurre noir fried, and served in black- 
butter sauce. 

la Suissc are baked in a dish lined with slices 
of cheese, covered with cream and sprinkled 
with grated cheese. 
au kari, or a VIndienne, are poached in a sauce 

of milk, butter, onions, curry powder, etc. 
an miroir are baked with butter, etc., in the dish 

in which they are served. 

aux pistaches mixed with cream, pounded pis- 
tachio nuts, etc., and baked. 
a la bonne femme baked with chopped onions 

and vinegar. 
au soleil poached, dipped in batter and fried. 

These are sometimes called cnfritot. 
a la matelote poached, and served on croutons, 
garnished with strips of anchovies and gher- 
kins, with fine herbs sauce. 
a la Portugaise poached, and served on croutons, 
covered with half tomatoes filled with savoury 
stuffing. 

ala neige spoonfuls of whipped whites poached in 

milk, etc. ; served in the milk with yolks of eggs. 

en caisse cooked in little souffle cases half 

filled with breadcrumbs. 
au bouillon steamed with stock in little moulds ; 

served with gravy. 

a la Provenpale cooked in small moulds with 
brown sauce, chopped onions, etc., and served 
with brown sauce. 
a la Florentine are lightly boiled, shelled, and 



EGGS AND OMELETTES. 163 

served on a pure"e of fowl, garnished with fried 
pastry straws. 

CEufs a la Bechamel are hard-boiled, cut in halves, 
and served in Bechamel sauce. 

<i la Norfolk^ hard-boiled, cut in halves, bread- 
crumbed and fried ; served with Piquante sauce. 

auvdoute hard-boiled, cut in slices and served 
in white sauce. 

ii la Tripe slices of eggs with slices of onions 
and Bechamel sauce with garlic, etc. 

au gratin slices in layers with white sauce, 
grated Parmesan, etc. ; sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs and grated Parmesan, and baked. 

a I'aurore shred hard-boiled whites of eggs in 
Aurora sauce, in layers with grated Parmesan 
and the yolks of the eggs powdered. 

a la St. James boiled hard in moulds, the yolks 
mixed with chopped truffles and put back into 
the whites ; served in Mayonnaise sauce with 
chopped truffles. 

farcis, or en canapes hard-boiled and cut in 
halves, the yolks mixed with chopped parsley, 
butter, etc., and put back into the whites ; a la 
creme, they are served with Bechamel sauce. 

farcis ait, Parmesan have a cheese stuffing, and 
are served with cheese sauce. 

a la Normande have a stuffing with pounded 
shrimps, etc., and are garnished with small 
salad. 

a la Poonah have an anchovy and shrimp stuff- 
ing, and are served with rice, and curry sauce. 



164 MENDS MADE EASY. 

CEufs en aspic slices of hard-boiled eggs set in a 

mould of aspic. 
Bcifjncts aux ceufs are slices of hard-boiled eggs, 

dipped in batter and fried. 

Crep'mettes d'ceujs a la Soubise are slices of hard- 
boiled eggs, coated with Soubise sauce, wrapped 
in pork caul, breadcrumbed and fried. 
Plovers' or Lapwings' eggs are set in a mould of 
aspic, or served with a border of aspic round them, 
as (Eufs de pluvicrs, or vanneaux, en aspic, or a 
I" aspic. A la Charmante, they are set in little 
moulds of aspic garnished with strips of beetroot, 
gherkin and white of egg, and are served with a 
mayonnaise of shred cucumber and celery. 

OMELETTES. 

A simple omelette is called Omelette au naturcl. 
Omelette aux fines lierbes is a savoury omelette 

with chopped parsley and shallot. 
au Parmesan with grated Parmesan. If Gruyere 

cheese is used instead of Parmesan, it is called 

aufromage. 

au jambon with chopped ham. 
au lard with chopped fried bacon. 
a la puree de volaille, or gibier, has a puree of 

fowl or game in the centre of the omelette. 
aux truffes has slices of truffles in brown sauce 

in the centre of the omelette. 
aux champignons has mushrooms in brown sauce 

in the centre. 
aux tomates has dressed tomatoes in the centre. 



EGGS AND OMELETTES. 165 

Omelette aux olives has olives and brown sauce in 

the centre. 
aux hultres has oysters in white sauce in the 

centre. 
aux abatis stewed giblets with herb sauce in 

the centre. 
aux rognons -kidneys with fine herbs in the 

centre of a savoury omelette. 
aux anclwis has fillets of anchovy on pieces of 

toast in the centre ; it is served with gravy. 
a la Normande has shrimps in anchovy sauce in 

the centre. 
a la Macedoine has a Macedoine garnish in the 

centre. 
a la Jardiniere is made with chopped vegetables 

mixed with the eggs. 

In addition to these there are the sweet omelettes 
au sucre. 
Omelette aux confitures a sweet omelette folded 

over jam. 
a u rhum a sweet omelette with rum, and a 

sauce of burning rum. 
a la Celestine a small sweet omelette, with 

apricot marmalade in the centre. 
aux /raises a sweet omelette with a compote of 

strawberries in the centre. These can be 

made with any fruit. 

An Omelette soufflce is made with sugar, beaten 
yolks and beaten whites of eggs, and is baked. 

For Omelette soufflee a la crcme, whipped cream 
is used instead of some of the whites of eggs. 



MENUS MADE EASY. 



CHAPTEE IX. 

ENTREMETS. 
CAKES AND PASTRY. 

Gateau Napolitaine is a cake composed of thin 
round pieces of a paste of pounded almonds, 
flour, butter, yolks of eggs, etc., spread with 
preserve and piled one on the other. It may 
be garnished with pistachio nuts, or masked 
with the preserve, or glazed with sugar icing. 
Served with cream, it is called Gateau Napoli- 
taine a la Cliantilly. 

a la Compiegne is a light cake cut in slices, 
spread with apricot marmalade, and put 
together again. 

a la Victoria a cake with dried cherries, citron, 
etc. ; served with almond custard. 

d'amandes a cake of ground almonds, eggs, 
sugar, etc. Baked in a shallow mould lined 
with paste, it is called Gateau Saint-Charles. 

de pistaches is made in the same way with 
pistachio nuts instead of almonds. 

Saint Louis a light cake of flour, butter, whites 



ENTREMETS. 167 



of eggs and pounded almonds, in a shell of 
paste ; sprinkled with chopped almonds. 

Gateau de Mokaia a coffee cake, served with cream. 

a la Monico is composed of layers of chocolate 

cake, and of a cake with almonds and cherries, 

spread with preserve, and the whole covered 

with chocolate icing and decorated with pink 

and white icing. 

de riz rice cake. Served au caramel it has 

burnt sugar sauce. 

de riz a la bourgeoise a rice cake baked in a 
mould lined with breadcrumbs ; served with 
any fruit sauce. 

de semoule semolina cake. Served with cream 
it is called a la creme. 

Baba au rhum a light cake made with yeast, with 
sultana raisins, citron, etc., baked in a mould 
decreasing in stages, and served with a sauce 
of apricot syrup and rum. It is sometimes 
called Baba a la Polonaise. A la Parmenne it 
is soaked with syrup, covered with a puree of 
apricots, and decorated with dried fruit ; 
served with a compote of fruit and cream in 
the centre. 

Brioches a la creme are light yeast cakes served 
with cream. If served with stewed fruit they 
are called Brioches aux fruits. 

Savarin is another light cake made with yeast. 
Aux fruits it is served with stewed fruit. 

Patisserie genoise is Genoese pastry. 

Gateau genoise aux abricots is a cake of Genoese 



168 MENUS MADE EASY. 

paste cut in slices, spread with apricot marma- 
lade, and put together again ; covered with 
the marmalade, and served with whipped 
cream. Little shapes or cakes made of this 
paste decorated with pink and white icing are 
called Genoises glaces a Vltalienne. 
As Genoises aux amandes, they are masked with 
meringue mixture, and sprinkled with chopped 
almonds, etc. 

Genoise aux confitures is a thin piece spread with 
jam and rolled. This is known as a Swiss 
roll, and is sometimes called Cannelon a la 
Suisse. 

A Genoese cake cut into sandwiches with jam is 
served as Biscuits a la Venitienne, coated with pink 
and white icing. As Puits cTamoiirs it is cut in 
shapes an inch thick, the centres cut out, the 
space filled with whipped cream and preserve, and 
the whole glazed with sugar icing. These are 
also made with pound cake instead of Genoese. 
They may be coated with chopped pistachios and 
almonds instead of the icing, and called Petits nids 
aux confitures. Made in sponge cake with little 
handles of citron they are called Petitcs corbeillcs a 
la Lucullus. 

Any cake cut in small shapes and glazed with 
chocolate is served as Chocolat glace. Sponge 
biscuits glazed with chocolate are called Biscuits 
glaces au cliocolat. Served with custard they are 
Biscuits a la creme. 
Biscuit de Savoie is Savoy or sponge cake, 



ENTREMETS. 169 



As Gateau a la Duchcsse it is cut in slices, spread 
with preserve and put together again ; decorated 
with icing. For Gateau a la St. Honore it is soaked 
in wine, covered with whipped and flavoured cream, 
and surrounded with balls of meringue. For 
Gateau a la Parisicnne the centre is cut out and 
filled with a puree of fruit ; it is covered with 
coffee icing, and decorated with dried cherries and 
whipped cream. 

Gateau aux rins, or an cognac, is a tipsy cake. 
Petits pains a la Parisicnne are sandwiches of 
finger biscuits with preserve, masked with 
alternate lines of meringue mixture and pre- 
serve. 

Petits gateaux aux amandcs are small shapes of 
pastry with chopped almonds strewn on the 
top ; the} 7 are served with whipped cream or 
preserve in the centre of the dish. 
au chocolat are little chocolate cakes. They may 
be served with cream, or with a chocolate 
custard. 

a la Heine small shapes of a paste of pounded 
almonds, sugar and whites of eggs ; glazed 
with sugar icing. 

a la Victoria little cakes of flour, butter, pounded 
almonds, maraschino, etc., spread with orange 
marmalade, and glazed with yellow icing. 
Madeleines are little cakes of a batter of flour, 

butter, eggs, brandy, etc. 

Darioles a batter of flour, sugar, eggs, cream, 
pounded almonds, etc., baked in dariole moulds 



170 MENUS MADE EASY. 

lined with paste, with candied orange flowers 
on the top. Flavoured with vanilla or coffee, 
they are called a la vanille, or au cafe. 

Darioles a la Duchesse are Duchess cakes made of 
a batter with citron, angelica, dried cherries, 
etc. ; glazed with white sugar. 

Ballettes dorees are little cakes of pounded almonds 
with breadcrumbs, etc., and apricot jam. 

Biscuits a I'ltalienne are fancy shapes of a light 
paste with chopped almonds, spread with jam, 
and put together in pairs. They are served 
in a crown with whipped cream in the centre. 
aux peclies are round-topped biscuits spread with 
jam and put together in pairs in the shape of 
peaches ; coated with white icing and a little 
red colouring. 

aux abncots are made in the same way, but of a 
smaller size. Apricot jam should be used, 
and yellow icing. 

G ateau aux /raises, etc., is composed of layers of 
light cake and of mashed strawberries or other 
ripe fruit, covered with cream. It can be 
made with slices of bread, instead of cake, 
soaked in a syrup of the fruit. 
de fruits a Vltalienne a light cake soaked with a 
liqueur or fruit syrup, with a compote of fruit 
in the centre, decorated with fruit and whipped 
cream. 

feuillete is puff paste cut in shapes. 
de mille feuilles a pile of thin round pieces of 
puff pastry, spread alternately with apricot 



ENTREMETS. 171 



marmalade, orange marmalade and currant 
jelly;- masked with apricot marmalade, and 
garnished with dried cherries. Garnished 
with angelica and a piping of whipped cream, 
and with stewed fruit in the centre, it is called 
Puit de fruits aux blanches couronnes. 

Gateau de Nantes a pile of rings of puff pastry, 
with an almond paste with chocolate in the 
centre, decorated with icing. 

Gateaux a la Conde thin oblong or fancy shapes 
of puff paste, the surface covered with chopped 
almonds, sugar, etc. This is sometimes called 
Patisserie d'amandes a la Conde. 
a la creme pastry of cream, flour and butter, in 
fancy shapes. 

Petits gateaux d'abricots are square pieces of puff 

paste folded over apricot marmalade. 
a la Polonaise are little folded envelopes of puff 
paste, garnished with red currant jelly. 

Ev entail aux cerises strips of puff pastry on a border 
of apple marmalade with stewed cherries in 
the centre. 

Petits vol-au-vents a la Chantilly are little vol-au- 
vents of puff pastry filled with marmalade and 
Chantilly cream. These are sometimes called 
Puits d'amours. 

a la gelee mousseuse are covered with chopped 
sugar coloured red, and filled with Maraschino 
jelly whipped to a froth. As Petits puits aux pis* 
taches they are covered with chopped pistachio 
nuts and sugar, and filled with whipped cream. 



MENUS MADE EASY. 



Patisserie a la tartine sandwiches of puff pastry 

and jam. 
Gaufres a la Franqaise are wafers made of a batter 

of flour, sugar, whipped cream, eggs, etc., 

baked in gauffre irons. 
a VAllemande, a la Flamande, and de Carlsbad, 

are varieties of the French wafers. 
aux amandes are almond wafers baked in thin 

pieces, coiled round and filled with whipped 

cream. 
Suedoises a la crime a batter of flour, sugar, 

almonds, etc., baked in small balls, and served 

with whipped cream. 
Petits choux are Spanish cakes made of a batter 

of flour, butter, eggs, sugar, etc., baked in 

small balls. They are served aux amandes, or 

a la creme, covered with chopped almonds and 

sugar, or filled with cream ; au caramel, they 

are dipped in boiled sugar and covered with 

chopped pistachio nuts and sugar. 
a VEspagnole are fried in the shape of small 

balls. These are sometimes called Soupirs, or 

Pets, de nonrw. 
a la comtesse are baked in finger-shaped pieces 

and filled with cream. If masked with choco- 

late or coffee icing, they are called Eclairs au 

clwcolat or au cafe. 
en gimblettcs are deep rings of the paste covered 

with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar. 
au chevalier are made in the shape of horse- 

shoes, filled with cream and decorated with 

vanilla and coffee icing. 



ENTREMETS 173 



Petits pains Je la Mccque, or Mecca loaves, are 
small oval cakes made of the same paste with 
the addition of whipped cream ; sprinkled with 
chopped sugar. Flavoured with lemon, they 
are called Petits pains de la Mecque au citron. 

Profiteroles au clwcolat are small oval cakes of 
milk, butter, sugar, eggs, etc.; served with 
chocolate sauce. 

Gateaux fourres aux confitures are jam turnovers 

or puffs. 
fourres a la crime are turnovers or puffs filled 

with frangipane. 

fourres de pommes a la Pansienne are turnovers 
filled with stewed apples and apricot mar- 
malade. 

d'Artois, or a la Manon, are covered puff paste 
tarts or tartlets filled with any kind of pre- 
serve. They may he called D'Artois aux 
abricots, etc., according to the jam with which 
they are filled. Au chocolat, they are filled 
with a chocolate custard. 
Mince pies are called Pates d'emince. 
Small balls of mincemeat, coated with crushed 

ratafias, and with chopped citron and cocoanut, 

are called Ballotines de Noel en surprise. 

Petits cannelons a la Chateaubriand are little strips of 
puff pastry spread with mincemeat and rolled. 

Cannelons a la creme are rolled strips of pastry 
filled with cream. Rolled pieces of crisp 
gingerbread, known as Brandy snaps, are 
often used for this dish. 



174 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Canndons de Moka are made with coffee pastry. 

Tartlets are filled with any kind of preserve, and 
take their name from it as Tartelettes de /raises, 
mix cerises, aux prunes, etc. ; a la vanille, they are 
filled with pounded almonds, vanilla sugar, whipped 
whites of eggs, etc. 
Tartelettes de crime a la Frangipane are filled with 

frangipane. 
a la Mosa'ique are filled with preserve, and 

covered with a mosaic of paste. 
a la Pompadour are filled with a ball of brioche 

paste folded over apricot or other marmalade, 

and sprinkled with sugar, 
a la Princcsse are filled with preserve, meringued 

over, and covered with coffee icing. 
a la Mikado are filled with an almond custard 

with raisins or dried cherries. 
Dauphines are tartlets filled with preserve, with 

custard over it, and meringue mixture piled 

on the top. 
Fanchonettes are tartlets filled with custard, 

meringued over, and the tops ornamented 

with little miniature meringues. In Fancho- 

nettes a la vanille the custard is flavoured with 

vanilla. 
Mirlitons aux fleurs d'oranger are tartlets filled 

with a batter of eggs, sugar, butter, pounded 

macaroons, candied orange flowers, etc. They 

are flavoured in various ways aux amandes, 

with almonds instead of the orange flowers ; 

or au chocolat, with chocolate* Aux confitures) 



ENTREMETS, 175 



they are half filled with jam before the batter 
is put in. 

Talmouses are cheese-cakes. 
au citron lemon cheese-cakes. 
aux amandes almond cheese-cakes. 
aux oranges are made of pounded almonds, 
orange-flower water, sugar, butter and eggs, 
with orange marmalade. 
aux confitures are cheese-cakes with jam. 
a la creme are cream tartlets filled with custard. 
aux abricots a la creme are filled with preserved 

apricots and covered with cream. 
aux fruits are filled with any kind of preserved 

fruit. 

Of the fruit tarts there are : 
Tarte aux abricots apricots; aux prunes 
plums ; aux reine-Claudes greengages ; de pecJies 
peaches; de pommes apples; de pommes aux 
coings apple with quince ; de poircs pears ; de 
framboises et groseilles raspberries and currants; 
de groseilles, vertes, or a maquereau green goose- 
berries ; de groseilles currants ; de cassis black 
currants ; de raisins verts green grapes ; de cerises 
cherries ; de rhubarbe rhubarb. 
Tourte a la, creme d'amandes is an open tart filled 

with almond cream. 

a lafrangipane is an open tart filled with fran- 
gipane a custard of flour, eggs, cream, 
butter, etc. 

a la Frangaise consists of alternate layers of 
light pastry and jam, covered with meringue* 



176 MENUS MADE EASY. 



Flan de poires, de cerises, de f raises, etc., are open 

fruit tarts. 
d* oranges is an open tart filled with stewed 

oranges. 
d'abricots a VAllemande an open tart filled with 

apricots, and apricot marmalade over them. 
d'abricots a la Metternich is filled with apricots 

and cherries, and the pounded kernels with 

cream on the top. 
de pommes a VEcossaise is filled with stewed 

apples, covered with orange marmalade. 
d'ama?ides a la d'E scars is filled with a custard 

of green almonds with candied orange flowers, 

yolks of eggs, cream, etc. This is also made 

with filberts. 
a la creme pralinee is filled with custard, and 

is sprinkled with sugar and glazed. 
Fleur de peches, etc., is also an open tart, baked 

in a " fleur " ring ; de groseilles a la creme is 

filled with stewed gooseberries with cream or 

custard. 
de pommes a la Suede is filled with a puree of 

apples with shreds of orange peel and burnt 

almonds, and is covered with meringue. 
a la Meringue is filled with layers of custard and 

jam, and covered with meringue. 
a VAllemande is filled with stewed fruit and 

custard. 

Little open tarts or tartlets are sometimes called 
Petits fleurs, as Petits fleurs aux /raises for straw- 
berry tartlets. 



ENTREMETS. 177 



Pommes en croustade, or Croustade de pommes a 
I'lmperiale, is a baked shape of paste filled 
with apple marmalade and garnished with 
dried cherries, etc. 

Apple dumplings are called Dumplings aiix 
pommes. 

A jam roll in suet crust, boiled or baked, is 
called Cannelon aux confitures. 

PUDDINGS. 

Plum pouding Plum pudding. A Christmas 
pudding is called Pouding de Noel. Little 
round blocks of plum pudding, the centres cut 
out and filled with brandy butter, are called 
Puits d' amours a la Noel. 

Fouding au riz rice pudding ; au tapioca tapioca; 
an sagou sago; a la semoule semolina; au 
macaroni macaroni; au vermicelle vermi- 
celli ; a la creme de riz ground rice. These 
puddings when steamed are often called Gateau 
instead of Pouding. A la Franfaise, they are 
served with a fruit sauce. 

au pain bread-and-butter pudding. Another 
pudding " au pain " is made of breadcrumbs, 
milk, eggs, lemon peel, etc. 

au pain bis brown-bread pudding. 

aux abricots breadcrumbs, cream, sugar, yolks 
of eggs and apricots, baked in a mould lined 
with paste. 

aux groseilles a puree of gooseberries, with 



178 MENUS MADE EASY. 

breadcrumbs, eggs, etc.; baked in a mould 
lined with paste. 

Pouding aux marrons a steamed pudding of 
pounded chestnuts with butter, milk, eggs, 
etc. It is served with apricot syrup or jam. 

aux pommcs a pudding of alternate layers of 
breadcrumbs and stewed apples. It can be 
baked or steamed. With the addition of 
powdered ginger and spice it is called Poud- 
ing de pommes au gingembre ; with ginger 
syrup and pieces of preserved ginger, a 
VIndienne; or with almonds and currants, a 
la Suisse. 

aux figues a boiled mould of dried figs, suet, 
milk, eggs, breadcrumbs, etc. Aux dattcs is 
made in the same way with dates ; aux raisins, 
with raisins. 

a Vananas Pineapple pudding. Whip sauce, 
with the pineapple syrup, is served with it. 

au gingembre Ginger pudding* 

au citron Lemon pudding. 

aux oranges is made in the same way as lemon 
pudding, with oranges instead of lemons* 

aux sultancs -a light steamed pudding with 
sultana raisins* 

aux amandes Almond pudding. 

aux noix de coco ^Cocoanut pudding. 

ft la crime Custard pudding. 

a la vanillc a light steamed pudding flavoured 
with vanilla. 

au clwcolat a steamed mould of sponge cake in 



ENTREMETS. 179 



crumbs, butter, sugar, eggs, chocolate, etc. 

Made with coffee instead of chocolate, it is 

called Ponding Mocha. 
Pouding an, caramel custard pudding in a mould 

with burnt sugar. It is usually served cold, 

with burnt sugar sauce, or with burnt brandy 

and sugar, as Creme an caramel, 
a la marmelade a steamed mould of flour, sugar, 

milk, eggs, marmalade, etc. ; served with mar- 
malade sauce. 
souffle a very light steamed pudding; it is 

served with wine or marmalade sauce, or with 

a syrup of fruit. Served with stewed fruit, 

it is aux fruits, 
de cabinet, or a la Chanceliere Cabinet pudding. 

This is also iced and served as Ponding glace 

a la Chanceliere. 
an biscuit dc Savoie a sponge cake with brandy, 

steamed in a mould with custard and dried 

cherries. 
Bakeicell a batter of eggs, butter and sugar, 

flavoured with lemon or pounded almonds, 

over apricot or other jam, baked in a dish 

lined with paste. 
a Vambre is Amber pudding a puree of apples 

or other fruit, with yolks of eggs, baked in a 

dish lined with paste, covered with meringue. 
au mid a boiled pudding of damsons or 

cherries, with breadcrumbs, butter, eggs and 

honey. 
a la Crccy is carrot pudding a boiled pudding of 



180 MENUS MADE EASY. 

chopped carrots, mashed potatoes, suet, flour, 

raisins and candied peel. 
Pouding a la Berkeley a suet pudding flavoured 

with lemon, served with a rum custard. 

a la Baronne a boiled pudding of suet, raisins, 

flour and milk. 
a la Portland a rich boiled pudding of brown 

breadcrumbs, suet, chopped apples, ginger and 

dried fruits ; served with a brandy whip sauce. 
a la Snowdon a boiled pudding of suet, bread- 
crumbs, brown sugar and marmalade. 
a la Cowley a pudding of mashed potatoes, 

almonds, sugar, eggs, etc. ; it is served covered 

with whip sauce. 
a la Mousseline a steamed pudding of lemon, 

sugar, butter, eggs, etc. ; served with a sweet 

or whip sauce. 
a la Victoria a pudding of flour, breadcrumbs, 

dried cherries, candied peel, cream, eggs, 

brandy, etc. ; served with whip sauce. Another 

pudding of the same name is a vanilla custard, 

served with a compote of fruit in syrup. 
a VAutrichienne a rich raisin and marmalade 

pudding with brandy, boiled, and served with 

an orange brandy custard. 
a Vltalienne macaroni and marmalade pudding. 
a la Franqaise a breadcrumb pudding, covered 

with jam, and then with a whip of whites of 

eggs and jam. 
a la Saxonne a steamed brown breadcrumb 

pudding with almonds and dried fruits. 



ENTREMETS. 181 



Ponding a VAllemande, or a la Viennoise a steamed 

pudding of bread cut in dice, almonds, raisins, 
l t sugar, custard, wine, etc.; served with whip 

sauce. 
a la JubiU a steamed breadcrumb and jam 

pudding, served with wine sauce. Made with 

raspberry or strawberry jam, it is sometimes 

called Savarin a la Nelson, 
au Paradis a steamed breadcrumb and apple 

pudding with brandy. 

a la St. Martin a boiled pudding of mincemeat 
. with rice and eggs ; served with burnt brandy 

sauce. 

a la Genevoise a baked apple and rice pudding. 
a VImperatrice layers of rice and jam, with 

custard, baked in a dish lined with paste. 
a la Gitana layers of bread and jam, with yolks 

of eggs and brandy, baked in a mould. 
a la Metropole layers of sponge cake, jam and 

custard, baked in a dish lined with paste, and 

covered with meringue. 
de neige a breadcrumb and jam pudding, covered 

with whipped whites of eggs. 
a la Norvegienne a mould of sago and fruit 

pure'e. 

a la Clarence a sponge cake and custard pud- 
ding with brandy, steamed in a mould decorated 

with dried fruits or sweetmeats. 
a VEspagnole a sponge cake and custard pudding 

steamed in a mould lined with French plums, 
a Vlndiennea sponge cake and custard pudding 



182 MENUS MADE EASY. 

with ginger and slices of preserved ginger; 

ginger and brandy sauce. 
Pouding a la Newcastle a bread and custard 

pudding steamed in a mould lined -with dried 

cherries. Made with cake instead of bread, 

and decorated with whipped cream coloured 

pink, and chopped pistachios and cocoanut, it 

may be called a la Louise, 
panache au chocolat a steamed pudding of layers 

of a chocolate cake and of a plain light cake, 

served with a fruit sauce. 
a la Venitienne a cold custard and sponge cake 

pudding with layers of preserved fruits, set in 

a mould lined with jelly and decorated with 

fruit. 
Diplomate a rich custard with dried fruits set 

in a mould lined with jelly. 
a V Alexandra a steamed custard flavoured with 

vanilla. It may be served hot with a whip 

sauce, or cold with a macedoine of fruit. 
a la Eeine Marguerite a rich custard with raisins, 

citron and preserved ginger. 
a la Kaisir a rich almond custard steamed in a 

mould decorated with citron, etc. 
a VAdolphe a strawberry custard with chocolate 

cream and sponge cake in the centre, set in a 

mould lined with jelly and decorated with 

pistachios and cocoanut. 
Nesselrode, or a la Nesselrode Ice pudding. 
Petits poudings a V Alexandra are little sponge cake 

and custard puddings decorated with chopped 



ENTREMETS. 183 



almonds, cherries and angelica; served in an 
apricot sauce with brandy. 

Petits poudings a la Florida are little light steamed 
puddings, garnished with dried cherries and 
served with a macedoine of fruit. 

Petits poudings de college are College puddings. 

Petits chateaux au vin are Castle puddings served 
with wine sauce. They may also be served 
cold, the centres cut out, filled with preserve 
and cream and decorated with little handles 
of angelica, as Petitcs corbcillcs defantaisic. 

Meringue d'oranges is a steamed orange and bread- 
crumb pudding covered with meringue. 

Croquettes de riz are rice croquettes ; de crime de 
riz ground rice ; de semoule semolina ; de 
vermicelle vermicelli. 

Croustade de riz is a fancy mould of rice, the centre 
filled with a cornflour custard. 

Eiz meringue rice, with milk, cream, sugar, whites 

of eggs, etc. ; sprinkled with sugar and baked. 

a I'Imperatrice is a rice cream served with a 

compote of fruit. 

a la Parisicnne is a rice cream set in a mould 
lined with jelly and decorated with angelica 
and dried cherries ; served with a compote of 
fruit in the centre covered with whipped 
cream. 

Crepe a VIndienne is a flat cake of rice, browned on 
the top, and decorated with preserved ginger 
and cherries, etc. 

Quenelles a la crime are small quenelles of a paste 



184 MENUS MADE EASY. 

of flour, cream, eggs, etc. They are also made 
a la semoule with semolina. 

Soupe doree, or Pain perdu small shapes of bread, 
soaked in milk, etc., dipped in beaten eggs 
and fried, 

FRITTERS. 

Beignets d'abricots a la Chartres are apricot fritters. 
d'abricots a Veau de vie sandwiches of bread 

dipped in brandy and half apricots, fried in 

batter. 

de peches a la royale peach fritters. 
de peches au vin du Rhin half peaches soaked in 

Rhine wine, etc., and fried ; served in a syrup 

of the wine with the kernels. 
de brugnons nectarine fritters. 
de pommes a la d' Orleans apple fritters. ] 
de pommes a la Bavarie apples soaked in brandy, 

etc., floured and fried. 
de poires pear fritters. 
de /raises a la Dauphine strawberry fritters. 
de groseilles a la Dauphine currant fritters. 
d 'ananas pineapple fritters. 
d'oranges orange fritters. 
de fleurs de sureau fritters of sprigs of elder 

flowers. 

a la creme are custard fritters. 
aux confitures small sandwiches of cake and 

jam, dipped in batter with wine, and fried. 
au riz round or oval pieces of a paste of ground 

rice with milk, eggs, etc., breadcrumbed and 

fried, 



ENTREMETS. 185 



Beignets a la bonne femme small fried balls of a 

paste of butter, sugar, eggs, etc. 
a la Chant-illy are made of a batter of flour, eggs, 

cream cheese, wine, etc. 
de Cintra thin round slices of cake soaked in 

cream, etc., floured and fried, 
a VAllemande small round sandwiches of brioche 

paste and preserve, fried. 
a la Prussienne are the same made of puff paste, 

with apple marmalade. 
it VEspagnole small pieces of crumb of French 

roll soaked in cream, etc., and fried. 
a la Portugaise balls of a paste of rice, milk, 

sugar, eggs, etc., with marmalade in the 

centre ; breadcrumbed and fried. 
en surprise apples with the stalks left on, soaked 

in brandy, etc., filled with apricot jam, dipped 

in batter and fried. 
a la Saint-Denys cherries stuck on strips of 

angelica, dipped in batter and fried. 
Beignets souffle's a la ranille are small fried balls 

of light " choux " paste flavoured with vanilla ; 

aux fleurs d'oranger, they are flavoured with 

orange -flower water. 
aux confitures are served with preserve; a la 

creme with cream; auchocolat with chocolate 

sauce. 

Crepes are pancakes. 

aux confitures are spread with preserve and rolled. 
ait riz are made of rice with sugar, cream, eggs, 

etc. 



186 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Crepes a la Fran$aise are folded over preserve. 
They are sometimes baked, and served in a 
pile, with layers of jam between them. 
a la Bengale are rice pancakes folded over pre- 
serve. 

COMPOTES, ETC., OF FRUIT. 

Abricots an liz are stewed apricots with rice. 

Served round a shape of rice cream, with 

apricot syrup, they are called a la Conde. 

Pears, peaches, apples, plums, etc., are dressed 

in the same way. 
a VAmericaine halves of stewed apricots on 

croutes of fried bread, glazed with sugar; 

served with custard. 
Compote d'abricots apricots boiled in syrup. It is 

also made of green apricots. 
Compote d'abricots a la Breteuil half apricots 

sprinkled with sugar and broiled ; served with 

apricot and raspberry syrup. A la cfeme, it 

is served with cream or custard. 
Pain d'abricots is a mould of apricot puree ; it is 

served with cream in the centre. 
Meringue d'abricots apricot marmalade with cus- 
tard over it, and meringue mixture on the top. 
Croutes aux abricots are fried slices of bread spread 

with preserved apricots, and served with a 

syrup of apricots. 
Ffcches en surprise are stewed peaches served in 

little cases, covered with cream. 
Chartreuse de peches is a mould ornamentally lined 



ENTREMETS. 187 



with pieces of peaches, and filled with peach 

marmalade. 
Compote de pcches peaches boiled in syrup. They 

are also dressed in the same way as apricots. 
Compotes, can be made of any fruit, but soft ripe 
fruit requires no cooking, if boiling syrup is poured 
over it. 

Prunes an riz are stewed plums or prunes with rice. 
Gateau, or Pain, de Mirabelles is a mould of Mira- 

belle plum marmalade. As Meringu-e de prunes, 

plums are dressed in the same way as apricots. 
Pain de prunes a la creme is a mould of stewed 

prunes, currant jelly, etc. ; served with whipped 

cream in the centre. 
Pain de prunes de damas is a mould of damson 

cheese or marmalade. 
Groutes aux reine-Claudes, brugnons, etc., are little 

patties of fried bread filled with compote of 

greengages, nectarines, or other fruit, and the 

syrup poured round. 
Pommes au beurre, or a la Parisienne, are apples 

filled with butter and sugar, and baked. 

Covered with apricot marmalade they are a 

la Portugaise. Filled with an almond paste 

they are a. la Comtesse. 
au riz en timbale a shell of paste filled with rice, 

and stewed apples in the centre ; covered with 

apricot marmalade. 
au riz meringue are stewed, and served in a 

border of rice with custard over them, and 

the whole covered with meringue mixture. 



188 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Dressed in this way without the rioe they are 

Pommcs moinguees. 
Pommes a la Julile are stewed whole, filled with 

strawberry jam and covered with whipped 

cream. 
a la Frangipane slices of apples with jam, 

covered with custard; baked in a dish lined 

with paste. 
a, la Polonaise are dressed in an open tart, covered 

with orange marmalade and crushed macaroons. 
Miroton de pommes stewed apples with melted 

currant 'jelly and wine; garnished with dried 

cherries. 
Gateau, or Pain, de pommes a la creme is a mould 

of apple marmalade, served with a custard 

sauce ; aux abricots, it is covered with apricot 

marmalade ; a la Eusse, it has whipped cream 

in the centre, and melted currant jelly round. 
Croquettes de pommes are pieces of apple marmalade, 

breadcrumbed and fried. 
Meringue de pommes a la Portugaise a round shell 

of paste filled with apple marmalade, with half 

apples on the top, and a well of custard in the 

centre ; spread with orange marmalade, and 

covered with meringue mixture. 
Chartreuse de pommes is a mould ornamentally 

lined with slices of apples, coloured pink and 

yellow, and filled with apple marmalade. 
Charlotte de pommes is Apple Charlotte. If apricot 

jam is mixed with the apple marmalade it is 

palled Charlotte de pommes aux dbricots. 



ENTREMETS. 189 



Pears are dressed as Charlotte de poires, and in 

many of the ways given for apples. 

Poires a VAllemandc are stewed pears. 

a la Victoria are stewed, and served on a border 

of sponge cake custard coloured red. 
en surprise are halves of stewed pears imitating 
cutlets, with a strip of angelica for a bone, on 
a jelly border, with chopped fruit and cream 
in the centre like a vegetable mayonnaise. 

Timbale de poires is stewed pears in a shell of paste, 
covered with apricot marmalade. 

Compote de poires an riz is stewed pears served with 
a border of rice. 

Compote a la Normande is a mould of pears stewed 
in cider. Slices of fried bread spread with this 
compote are called Croiites a la Normande. 
They are dressed in a circle, with a syrup of 
the jam with wine in the centre. 

Croiites de poires a la Parisienne is a border of 
stewed pears on croutons, with a macedoine 
of fruit in the centre. 

Fraises a la Cliantillij are strawberries with whipped 
cream. 

Croiites aux /raises a la Bcllerifc strawberries 
spread on buttered buns. 

Chartreuse de /raises is a mould lined with straw- 
berries and filled with crushed strawberries 
and cream. This is also made with rasp- 
berries and other fruit. 

Gateau de /raises a la St. Georges mashed straw* 
berries with yolks and whipped whites of eggs, 



190 MENUS MADE EASY. 



baked in a mould lined with paste. It is 
covered with maraschino icing and decorated 
with strawberries and whipped cream. 

Meringue a la Mont -Ida crushed raspberries 
covered with cream and then with meringue. 

Groseilles vertes a la Saint-Honore are stewed 
green gooseberries in a shape of pastry, covered 
with cream, with a border of balls of choux 
paste. Cherries or any other fruit may be 
dressed in this way. 

Pain de mures sauvagcs a la Metropole is a mould of 
blackberries decorated with almonds and dried 
fruits. This is also made with black currants 
as Pain de cassis, or de censes, with cherries. 

Salade aux oranges slices of oranges with wine 
and raisins, garnished with angelica, etc. 

Mousse aux oranges is orange sponge the juice 
whipped to a sponge with whites of eggs, etc. 

Charlotte aux oranges is an orange Charlotte. 

Bananes au rhum stewed bananas served with a 
rum sauce. 

Pain d' ananas a la Royale is a mould of pineapple 
puree set in jelly and garnished with whipped 
cream. 1 

Compote a la Sarde is composed of green figs covered 
with milk which has been boiled to a custard, 
and baked. 

Marrons a la creme are powdered chestnuts covered 
with whipped cream. 

Gateau de marrons is a steamed mould of pounded 
chestnuts with cream, eggs, etc. Balls of 



ENTREMETS. 191 

this preparation, breadcrumbed and fried, are 

served as Croquettes de marrons. Chestnuts 

are also served en compote stewed in syrup. 
Chataignes croquantes are small crystallized pieces 

of pounded chestnuts with sugar, eggs, etc. 
Gateau de figues is a mould of dried figs. Dates 

and prunes are dressed in the same way. 
Macedoine de fruits is composed of mixed fruits in 

syrup. Au citron, it is flavoured with lemon. 

En gelee, it is set in a mould of jelly. 
Gateau de fruits is a mould of any kind of fruit ; a 

la crime, it is served with cream or custard ; 

a la Metropole, it is decorated with cherries or 

other dried fruits ; a la Royale, it is set in a 

mould lined with jelly, and is served with 

cream. 
Timlale de fruits a la Pansienne is composed of 

mixed fruits in a mould of jelly flavoured with 

liqueur ; served with a fruit macedoine. 
Chartreuse de fruits is an ornamental mould of 

fruit. 
C routes aux fruits are fried slices of bread spread 

with various preserved fruits, and served with 

a fruit syrup. 
Petits nougats a la crime are small shapes of 

nougat filled with cream ; a la Chantilly, with 

Chantilly cream. 
Croquantes are small pieces of nougat. 

CREAMS. 

Crme au chocolat is chocolate cream. These 



192 MENUS MADE EASY. 



creams, served in little cups, are called Petits 
pots de creme au cliocolat, etc. 
Creme au cafe is coffee cream. 

de the is tea cream. 

de the verl is green tea cream. 

a la vanille is vanilla cream. 

au ponche, au noyau, au marasquin, are respec- 
tively flavoured with punch, noyau and mara- 
chinos. 

aux abricots is apricot cream. 

de /raises is strawberry cream. 

deframboises is raspberry cream. 

a V ananas is pineapple cream. 

aux mille fruits is made with preserved straw- 
berries, raspberries, apricots, plums and other 
fruits. 

d'orangcs is orange cream. 

d'ama?idcs is almond cream. It is sometimes 
called Creme a la Romaine. 

de matrons is chestnut cream. 

aux fleurs d'oranger is made of fresh orange 
flowers boiled in cream. 

de gingembre is made with ginger, and pieces of 
preserved ginger. 

de riz, de tapioca, a, Vorge, are rice, tapioca and 
barley creams. 

de pain bis is brown-bread cream. 

de groseilles vertes is gooseberry fool* Khubarb, 
strawberries and raspberries are dressed in 
this way ; a la Suisse, they are served with 
sponge cakes. 



ENTREMETS. 193 



Creme de velours is made of cream, sugar, wine, 

etc. 

a la gcUe a mould of whipped jelly and cream. 
merge small moulds of cream with pounded 

almonds, etc. 
a la ChantiUy is made of whites of eggs and 

cream, with sugar, etc. 
a la Celestine a mould lined with strawberries 

and filled with any kind of cream, 
a I'ltalienne is made with cream, sugar, eggs, 

curacao, dried cherries, candied peel, etc. 
a la Flamande is made of cream, eggs, sugar, 

arrowroot, madeira, etc. 
a la Hollandaise is made of yolks of eggs and 

wine, with whipped cream, etc. 
a la Bavaroise a mould of whipped cream, with 

flavouring, etc. Served with stewed fruit or 

a syrup of fruit, it is called Bavarois aux fruits, 
a la Suisse is vanilla cream over sponge cakes. 
a V Antoinette a custard with preserved ginger 

and cherries, set in a mould lined in divisions 

with chopped pistachios and white cream, 

and grated cocoanut and chocolate cream; 

served with a macedoine of fruit, 
a la Venus a mould of custard flavoured with 

rum, decorated with preserved ginger ; served 

with a ginger custard. 
a la Marguerite is a chocolate custard covered 

with meringue; served with a sweet sauce. 

It is usually dressed in little moulds as Petite* 

cremes. 

o 



194 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Bavaroise aux pommes is a custard made of a 

puree of apples, with eggs and cream. 
aux poires is made in the same way with 

pears. 
aux pistaches pounded pistachio nuts and 

almonds, etc., with custard, coloured green ; 

sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts. 
an cafe is coffee custard. 
a la Mont-Ida is a raspberry custard. 
glacee is iced Bavarian cream. 
a la Ceylon is a chocolate custard set in a mould 

lined with a mottled pink and white cream, 

flavoured with lemon and liqueur. 
Blancmanger aumarasquinis blancmange flavoured 

with maraschino : a la vanille, it is flavoured 

with vanilla; aux amandes, with pounded 

almonds. Set in a mould lined with jelly, and 

decorated with dried fruits, it is Bavaroise a 

la Princesse. 
Creme fouette'e de /raises, or Mousse aux /raises, 

is whipped strawberries and cream. 
aux framboises whipped raspberries and cream. 
Creme frite au chocolat, etc., is chocolate or other 

cream, cut in pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. 
Meringues a, la creme are meringues filled with 

whipped cream. 
aux /raises are filled with whipped strawberries 

and cream. 
a la Chantilly are filled with Chantilly cream ; 

au chocolat, with chocolate cream. 
aux amandes are almond meringues made with 



ENTREMETS. 193 



chopped or shred almonds ; a la noix de coco 

cocoanut meringues. 
Meringues aux champignons are made in the shape 

of mushrooms, the brown insides imitated 

with chocolate. 
Petites meringues aux pistaches are small meringues 

sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts, and 

filled with whipped cream. 
Meringue a la Parisienne a pile of rings of 

meringue preparation, piped with currant 

jelly in stripes, the centre filled with cream 

and garnished with strawberries. 
Corbeille a la Chantitty is a shape of macaroons 

filled with whipped cream and preserved fruits. 
Charlotte Eusse is a mould lined with finger 

biscuits, and filled with vanilla or other cream. 

Au cafe, it is filled with coffee cream; aux 

groseilles vertes, with green gooseberry cream. 
a la, Princesse is filled with vanilla cream with 

dried fruits, and is decorated with pink and 

white icing, etc. 
a V Alexandra is filled with a chocolate _custard 

and served with apricot sauce. 
Prussienne is a mould with half an inch of red 

jelly at the bottom, lined with finger biscuits, 

and the centre filled with Bavarian cream. 
aux /raises, etc. a mould lined with strawberries 

or other fruit, and filled with maraschino cream. 
Bagatelle aux f raises is a strawberry trifle. 
Biscuits a la cremea, rich frothy cream, baked in 

small paper cases. 



196 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Glace meringuce au four is a mould of any kind 
of cream ice, covered with a meringue pre- 
paration, and browned. 

de Plombieres is an ice of pounded almonds, 
sugar, cream, eggs, etc. This ice is not put 
in a mould, and is served with apricot jam. ' 

Par/ait au clwcolat or au cafe is a tall conical mould 
of chocolate or coffee cream ice. 

Glaces au four are small pieces of ice, folded in 
paste and baked. 

Gateau glace a VElo'ise a mould lined with 
whipped cream, and filled with custard and 
stewed cherries ; iced, and served with custard 
over it. 

Cartouches de M. de Cupidon Love's cartridges 
vanilla cream ice in the shape of cartridges, 
filled with chocolate. 

Bonibe glacee a cream of yolks of eggs with syrup 
etc., iced in a round " bombe " mould. 

Melon glace a pistachio cream ice with an orange 
ice in the centre, iced in a melon-shaped 
mould. It is often called en surprise. 

JELLIES. 

Gelde de pommes Apple jelly. A la crime, it is 

served with whipped cream. 
de prunes Plum jelly. 
d 'oranges Orange jelly. 
de citron Lemon jelly. 
de cassis Black currant jelly. 
de censes Cherry jelly. 



ENTREMETS. 197 



Gelee deframboises Raspberry jelly. 

def raises is jelly coloured red, with whole straw- 
berries in it. If the jelly is flavoured with 
vanilla, it is called Gelee de /raises a la 
vanille. 

de mures Mulberry jelly. 

de mures sauvages a la creme a mould of black- 
berry jelly with whipped cream in the centre. 

a Vananas is a pineapple jelly, with pieces of 
pineapple in it. 

de riefles Medlar jelly. 

de coings Quince jelly. 

aujus de grenades Pomegranate jelly. 

a la macedoine de fruits layers of mixed fruits 
in a jelly flavoured with maraschino or other 
liqueur. 

au madere Wine jelly. 

au rlmm is flavoured with rum. 

a la Chartreuse is flavoured with Chartreuse. 

au curaqao, au noyau and au marasquin are 
flavoured with curacao, noyau and maraschino. 

au ponche is flavoured with punch ; au Kirsch, 
with Kirschenwasser. 

de Dantzic aux f raises is flavoured with cherry 
brandy, and has whole strawberries in it. 

de marasquin aux abricots is flavoured with 
maraschino, and has pieces of apricots in it. 

de noyau aux fruits is flavoured with noyau, and 
has pieces of apricots and strawberries, or 
other fruits, in it. 

aux violettes printanieres is made of an infusion 



198 MENUS MADE EASY. 

of fresh violets in syrup. Jellies of fresh 
flowers are also made of roses, pinks, jonquils, 
etc. 

Gelee a, la Bacchante is made with the juice of 
green grapes and champagne ; coloured green. 
a la Duchesse is flavoured with liqueur, and 
decorated with shreds of pistachios and cocoa- 
nut, etc. 
a la Panachee a mould of alternate layers of 

white and pink jelly. 

a la Russe a mould of jelly whisked to a froth. 
mousseuse a, Veau de vie a mould of jelly whipped 

with brandy. 
mousseuse au& oranges a mould of orange jelly 

whisked to a froth. 

fouettee aux fruits whipped maraschino jelly, 
with pieces of apricots, cherries, strawberries, 
etc. 
Petites gelees a la Napolitaine are creams of various 

colours set in little moulds of jelly. 
Kiselle is a jelly made of fruit syrup with flour. 

SOUFFLES. 

These may be served in a souffle dish, or in small 
paper cases as Petits souffles. 
Souffle an cafe is flavoured with coffee. 

au chocolat is flavoured with chocolate. 

au cafe merge is flavoured with green coffee. 

au citron is flavoured with lemon. 

a la vanilk is flavoured with vanilla. 

au marasquin is flavoured with maraschino. 



ENTREMETS. 199 

Souffle aux amandes is flavoured with pounded 
almonds. 

aux macarons is flavoured with macaroons. 

aux fieurs d'oranger is flavoured with candied 
orange flowers, or orange flower water. 

au gingembre is flavoured with preserved ginger. 

aux abricots is made with the addition of stewed 
apricots. Souffles are also made with other 
fruit. Little fruit souffle's are sometimes called 
Petits zephyrs aux fruits. 

a la creme is made with whipped cream instead 
of some of the whites of eggs. Baked in small 
paper cases, it is called Biscuits souffles a la creme. 

au nz is a rice souffle flavoured with lemon or 
vanilla. 

a la creme de riz is made with ground rice ; au 
tapioca, with tapioca. 

au pain bis is made with brown breadcrumbs. 

aux confitures is made with preserve. 

a la Paysanne a puree of apples, with a puree 
of chestnuts with cream over it, and meringue 
mixture on the top. 

a I'Espagnole layers of sponge cake and preserve, 
soaked with wine and covered with meringue. 

glace au marasquin is an iced souffle flavoured 
with maraschino. Coffee or other flavouring 
may be substituted for maraschino, and the 
souffle named accordingly. Iced in a mould, 
instead of a souffle dish, it is called Mousse 
glacee, or in little cases, Biscuits glaces, au 
marasquin, etc. 



200 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Souffle glace auxf raises is an iced strawberry souffle. 

glace vanille et cliocolat an iced vanilla souffle, 
with chocolate on the top. 

glace au curaqao an iced souffle flavoured with 
Curasao and covered with a meringue pre- 
paration. Iced in small paper cases, this is 
called Biscuit mousseux glace en caisse. 

glace a la Victoria is a rich iced souffle flavoured 
with liqueur and coloured green, with a mace- 
doine of fruit in the centre. 



( 201 ) 



CHAPTER X. 

SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 

Souffle au Parmesan is a cheese souffle. As Petits 

souffles, it is served in small paper cases. Little 

steamed souffles are sometimes called Petits 

zephyrs defromage. 
Fondue au Parmesan is a cheese fondu, baked in a 

souffle dish or paper case, or steamed. 
a la Napolitaine has the addition of short pieces 

of macaroni ; au Stilton, of small dice of Stilton 

cheese. They may be served in little cases 

as Petites fondues. 
Ramequins are made of milk, flour, eggs, grated 

Parmesan, etc., baked in paper cases. 
a la Raymond are made with Gruyere cheese, and 

are baked in small lumps. 
a la Sefton, or aufeuilletage, are small shapes of 

puff paste with grated Gruyere and Parmesan 

cheese, 
a la Genevoise grated cheese with cream, baked 

on slices of bread. 
Salade au fromage is composed of beetroot and 



202 MENUS MADE EASY. 

celery with a cheese Mayonnaise sauce, gar- 
nished with small salad and hard-boiled 

egg- 

Kluskis aufromage a la creme are little poached rolls 
of a paste of cream cheese, butter, eggs, bread- 
crumbs, etc. ; served with black-butter sauce. 

Quenelles de Parmesan are cheese quenelles, served 
with a cheese sauce. 

Fritot, or Bcignets, defromage are cheese fritters. 

Crepes defromage are very small cheese pancakes. 

Eonds au Parmesan are fried rings of a cheese 
batter. 

Aigrettes au Parmesan are made of a light cheese 
paste, fried in spoonfuls. 

Canapes aufromage dissolved Parmesan on round 
slices of fried bread. 

Croutes au fromage grated cheese with butter, 
breadcrumbs, yolks of eggs, etc., spread on 
pieces of toast and browned. 

Brioches aufromage are small cakes of brioche paste 
with grated Parmesan and dice of Gruyere. 

Petits choux aufromage are fried balls of " choux " 
paste with cheese. 

Eclairs au Parmesan are made of the same paste 
baked in finger shaped pieces, and are filled 
with savoury cream. They are sometimes 
called Eclairs a la Palmerston. Filled with 
anchovy cream, they are Eclairs aux anchois. 

Creme defromage is a cheese cream or custard. It 
is usually served as Petites cremes. 

Petiies mousses defromage are a rich frothy cheese 



SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 203 

cream set in little moulds or served in cases. 

They are sometimes iced. 
Pctits pains de fromage are little cakes of flour, 

butter and grated cheese. 
Petits pates, or Bouchees, de fromage are very small 

patties of puff pastry with cheese, filled with 

small dice of cheese in cheese sauce. These 

are often called Croustades a la Milanaise. 
a la Napolitaine, little bits of macaroni are 

substituted for the dice of cheese. 
Petites caisses de fromage toasted cheese served in 

little cases. 

Petits fleurs de fromage are cheese tartlets. 
Tartelettes, or Talmouses, a la Sefton are tartlets of 

a paste of grated Parmesan, flour, butter, etc., 

filled with a cheese custard. 
Pailles au Parmesan are cheese straws. 
a la Sefton are cheese straws of puff paste with 

grated Parmesan. 
Diablotins au Gruyere are little fried balls, the size 

of chocolate drops, of a light paste with grated 

cheese. 
Balkttes de fromage are small balls of cheese paste, 

breadcrumbed and fried. 
Cannelons de fromage are little rolled wafers of 

cheese pastry. They may be filled with 

whipped cream. 
Pyramides au Parmesan are made of whipped cream 

with grated cheese piled on little cheese biscuits. 

Covered with a savoury meringue they are 

called Meringues de fromage. 



204 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Biscuits aufromage are cheese biscuits. 

a la Diable are biscuits spread with cheese, 

mustard, cayenne, etc., and grilled. 
a la Eitsse biscuits spread with chopped parsley , 
hard-boiled egg and anchovies, and ornamented 
with the separate ingredients. 
Talmouses a la Saint-Denys are biscuits of flour, 

cream curds, cheese, butter and eggs. 
Timbale a la Diable is a mould of layers of rice with 
grated Parmesan, etc., with alternately slices 
of ham and of Gruyere cheese between the 
layers of rice. Baked and served with gravy. 
Olives farcies are stuffed olives. They are served 

on croutes. 
au Parmesan are served on cheese croutes or 

biscuits. 
en aspic are set in a mould of aspic, garnished 

with hard-boiled egg, etc. 
a la Saint-Augustine are stuffed with foie gras 

and set in little moulds of aspic. 
Croutes aux olives served on little croutes, garnished 

with egg, anchovies or capers. 
au jambon are ham toasts ; a Vecarlate tongue 

toasts. 

aux anchois are spread with anchovy butter or 
paste. They are sometimes garnished with 
chopped parsley and hard-boiled egg, or with 
fillets of anchovy. A la Frangaise, they have 
a stuffed olive in the centre. 

Canapes aux anchois are round slices of fried bread 
with chopped anchovies, capers, yolk and 



SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 205 

white of egg arranged on them separately in 

quarters. 
Anchois farcis anchovies boned, stuffed, dipped 

in batter and fried. 
a la Colmar fillets of anchovies on croutes of 

fried bread, garnished with anchovy cream 

and yolk and white of egg. 
a la St. Augustine anchovy creams set in little 

moulds of aspic. 
Allumettes d 1 anchois are strips of anchovies wrapped 

in paste and fried. 
Petites gelees aux anchois are fillets of anchovies 

with hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley and 

capers, set in little moulds of aspic. 
Talmouses aux anchois are tartlets made of anchovy 

pastry, filled with cheese or anchovy cream. 
Pctits nids aux anchois are egg shapes of anchovy 

cream served in little nests of pastry, garnished 

with sprigs of parsley, etc. 
Many of the savouries of cheese that have been 
enumerated are also made with anchovy souffles, 
creams, pancakes, fritters, straws, etc. 
Sardines au Parmesan are sardines on buttered 

strips of toast spread with grated Parmesan. 

"Without the Parmesan, they are called sur 

croutes. 
en papillotes are boned, stuffed, and served in 

papers. 

farcies are stuffed ; au Diable, devilled. 
a la Suisse are fried in batter. They are some- 
times called enfritot. 



206 MENUS MADE EASY. 



Crevettes en surprise are shrimps served in little 

rolled slices of brown bread and butter, gar- 
nished with small salad. 
en mascaradeaxQ served on croutes with Mayonnaise 

sauce, covered with aspic whipped to a froth. 
Mousses aux crevettes are rich frothy creams made 

with pounded shrimps. They are usually 

served in little cases. 
Eissolettes a la Normande are very small rissoles of 

shrimps. 
Huitres a la Saint-Patrice are oysters served raw 

on croutes spread with bloater roe. 
au caviar are served on thin slices of lemon 

spread with caviar, on croutes of fried bread. 
Anges a Cheval are oysters wrapped in little slices 

of bacon, broiled and served on toast. 
Harengs a la Duchesse creams of pounded herring 

set in little moulds of aspic. 
Fritot aux harengs little fillets of herring fried in 

batter. These fritters are also made with 

dried haddock merluchefume'e. 
Fritot a la Russe fritters made of a cream of any 

dried fish, fried in batter. 
Friantines a la Madras are little fritters made of 

curried fish. 
Cassolettes aux Indes are small patties of rice filled 

with dried haddock devilled. 
Pailles a la Yarmouth are straws of pastry made 

with bloater paste. 
Paupiettes a la Yarmouth are fillets of bloaters, 

stuffed, rolled, and served on toast. 



SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 207 

Laitances a la Diable is devilled roe. It is served 

on toast. 
a la Madras small pieces of roe, wrapped in little 

slices of bacon with capers and chutney, and 

served on toast. Chickens' livers are dressed 

in this way as Foies de volatile a la DiabU. 
Tomates en mascarade are little moulds of rice, the 

centres filled with a puree of tomatoes ; served 

with a cheese sauce. 
Pailles a I'Americaine are straws of pastry made 

with tomato sauce. 
Pompadours a la Portugaise are little rolls of cheese 

pastry filled with tomato cream. 
Marrons en mascarade are braised chestnuts, coated 

with a savoury forcemeat, and then half with 

grated ham and half with grated cheese; 

served in paper cases, a red and white one in 

each case. 
Croquettes a la Mancelte'&ie little croquettes made of 

chestnuts with white sauce, grated cheese, etc. 
Eoasted chestnuts may also be devilled and 
served in little cases as Marrons a la Diable. Wal- 
nuts, almonds or raisins may be served in this way. 
Pommes en kari are curried apples. 
Petits souffle's piquants are little savoury souffles 

with chopped herbs. Highly seasoned with 

cayenne pepper, etc., they are called Petits 

souffles a la Diable. 
a la Yarmouth are bloater souffles. 
Petites gele'es aux fines herbes are little moulds of 

aspic with chopped mushrooms and herbs. 



208 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Petites caisses a VAlgerienne are French plums 

stuffed with foie gras, or other rich forcemeat, 

served in little cases. 

a la Tunis are dates dressed in the same way. 
a la Florence little cases filled with a puree 

of dried haddock covered with a savoury 

meringue. 
a la Westphalie are filled with a puree of ham, 

and garnished with slices of red and white 

radishes, and chopped parsley. 
Croutes a la Campagne croutes garnished with 

anchovy puree in a rose design, sprinkled with 

chopped parsley. 
a la Fran$aise are garnished with anchovy, 

cheese and parsley butter, with caviar in the 

centre. 

a la Russe are spread with a cream of horse- 
radish. 
a I'Indienne are spread with a highly seasoned 

mixture of buttered eggs with chopped capers, 

anchovy, etc. 
a Vltalienne have slices of beetroot on them and 

rings of white and yolk of hard-boiled egg, an 

olive in the centre with an anchovy curled 

round it. 

a VEcossaise Scotch woodcock on toast. 
a la Jubile have a puree of dried haddock piled 

on them, with an oyster in the centre covered 

with the puree. 
a la Marjorie are spread with a puree of dried 

haddock and garnished with hard-boiled egg. 



SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 209 

Croutes a V Albert are spread with a mixture of 
buttered eggs -with cheese, and sprinkled with 
chopped tongue. 

a la Rosamonde are rolled fillets of anchovies on 
slices of tomato, garnished with hard-boiled 
yolk of egg. 

a la Burlington are spread with minced chicken 
in Tartare sauce, covered with a slice of 
tomato, and garnished with cream of chicken 
and a stuffed olive in the centre. 

a la Berne are spread with chopped olives, 
shallots and parsley, covered with chopped 
tongue, and have a hard-boiled yolk of egg 
seasoned with oil and vinegar on each. They 
are served hot. 

a la Marie are spread with foie gras, garnished 
with dried cherries stuffed with foie gras, and 
decorated with whipped cream. 

a la Clarisse are spread with shreds of ham and 
anchovy, covered with little slices of bacon, 
and are dipped in batter and fried. 

a la Normande are spread with a shrimp paste. 

a la Yarmouth are spread with bloater paste. In 
addition to these, croutes may be served aux 
harengs, with fillets of herring ; de homard a la 
Tartare, with chopped lobster and Tartare 
sauce; a la moelle, with marrow; aux cham- 
pignons, or aux epinards, with a puree of mush- 
rooms or spinach ; and may be garnished 
with yolk and white of egg, chopped celery, 
beetroot, parsley, etc. Cheese biscuits are 
often used for croutes instead of fried bread. 



210 II EN US MADE EASY. 

Canapes d'oeu/s are biscuits or tartlets of cheese 
or anchovy pastry spread -with buttered 
eggs. With curried eggs, they are a la 
Madras. 

a Madame tartlets of anchovy pastry filled 
with chopped potato in Mayonnaise sauce, 
garnished with fillets of anchovies, and 
aspic. 

a la Prince de Galles very small rolls filled with 
chopped ham, anchovies, gherkins and truffles, 
with oil, vinegar, etc. The tops covered with 
aspic or Mayonnaise sauce. 

Croustades a la Versailles are little souffles of 
anchovy on croustades of anchovy pastry. 

a la Mancelle croustades of anchovy pastry 

filled with a savoury puree of chestnuts. 
Cremes aux fines herbes are little moulds of savoury 
custard with chopped herbs. 

de Galles is Welsh rare-bit. It is sometimes 
called Bonne-bouche a la Galloise. With the 
addition of chopped gherkin it is a I'Irlandaise. 

a I'Egyptienne savoury creams of three different 
sorts and colours, served in small Neapolitan 
ice cases, imitating Neapolitan ices. 

a la Beatrice are little creams of cheese, bread- 
crumbed and fried. 

a la Bichelieu little anchovy creams, bread- 
crumbed and fried; served with a cheese 
sauce. 

Tartines de caviar Eussian caviar spread on 
small slices of buttered toast. 



SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 211 

Tartines or Sandwiches a la Jardiniere little 
sandwiches of bread and butter with small 
salad and Mayonnaise sauce. 

a. la Mancelle are made with a puree of chest- 
nuts. 

a VImperiale are made of brown bread and butter 
with a cream of bloater, and chopped celery 
and tarragon. 

ft la Greville are made with brown bread, and 
pounded meat with capers and anchovies, and 
each one is masked half with brown and half 
with white sauce. 

a la Pompadour are made of brown bread with 
potted game or chicken, and are masked with 
several different coloured sauces white, 
brown, and coloured with tomato and spinach. 

ft la Princesse are made in the same way, but 
are masked with Mayonnaise sauce and 
decorated with macedoine vegetables. 

A variety of sandwiches may also be made with 
cheese, anchovy, shrimps, eggs, cucumber, etc. 
Macaroni an gratin macaroni with grated cheese 
and white sauce, sprinkled with bread- 
crumbs, Parmesan and melted butter, and 
baked. 

a VltaUenne macaroni with grated Parmesan, 
gravy and melted butter. 

la Napolitaine, or ft la creme with grated 
Parmesan, butter, cream, etc. 

la Milanaise with a puree of tomatoes and 
grated cheese ; garnished with croutons. 



212 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Macaroni a la sauce tomatcs is dressed with cream, 

grated cheese, etc., and covered with tomato 

sauce. 
en timbale a mould of macaroni dressed with 

butter and grated cheese. 
Timbale de macaroni a la Florentine is dressed with 

cream and anchovy sauce. 
Croquettes a la Milanaise are croquettes of macaroni 

with grated Parmesan, Bechamel sauce, etc. ; 

breadcrumbed and fried. Macaroni thus 

dressed may be served in little cases as Petites 

caisses a la Milanaise. It can also be made 

into small rissoles or rissolettes. 
Sparghetti a la Russe is Sparghetti macaroni dressed 

with chopped tomatoes and cheese sauce ; 

garnished with shrimps or prawns. 
Vermicelle au Parmesan vermicelli dressed with 

cheese, white sauce, etc. 
a la Venise a savoury cream of vermicelli with 

chopped ham ; served with gravy. 
Riz a VIndienne is curried rice. 
a la Diable is devilled rice. 
a la Turque is rice with melted butter. 
a la Milanaise a mould of rice boiled in broth, 

with grated Parmesan, etc. 
a VEspagnole is served with tomato sauce, 

grated cheese, etc.; garnished with slices of 

ham. 

a la Florentine curried rice with grated Par- 
mesan and shrimps or prawns, 
a la Piemontaise dry rice with potato pulp, 



SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 213 

grated Parmesan, etc. ; garnished with fillets 
of anchovies. 
Riz a la Polonaise served with slices of fried onion, 

grated hani and cheese, 
a la Miistaplia with melted butter and chopped 

truffles. 
a la Victoria cooked with broth, etc., and served 

with poached eggs and rolls of fried bacon. 
Ballotincs de riz a I'Indienne are little balls of 
curried rice, breadcrumbed and fried. Dipped 
in batter and fried, they are called Fritot de 
riz a I'Indienne. 

Rice is also dressed au Parmesan with white 
sauce and grated cheese, and in any of the ways 
given for macaroni. 

The preparations of macaroni and rice are 
specially suitable for second course dishes at 
luncheon. If required for a savoury, they may 
be dressed in little cases. 



214 MENUS MADE EASY. 



CHAPTEE XI. 

ICES, OB GLACES, AND SORBETS. 

AT large dinners it is usually the custom to give 
the names of the ices cream and water on the 
menu ; but they are often omitted from it, as they 
are served after the dessert has been put on the 
table, and therefore cannot be said to form part of 
the dinner. 
Crdme de the Tea cream ice. 

de the vert Green tea cream ice, 

de vanille Vanilla cream ice. 

de ratafias Eatafia cream ice. 

de pain bis Brown bread cream ice. 

aux fleurs d'wanger Cream ice with infusion of 
orange flowers. 

Bavaroise Bavarian cream ice. 

au caramel Cream ice with caramel, flavoured 
with vanilla. 

a la Bisque Cream ice with powdered macaroons, 
flavoured with madeira or sherry. 

a la Clidtcaulriand Vanilla cream ice with 
whipped cream and strips of preserved fruits. 



ICES, OR GLACES, AND SORBETS. 215 

Creme a la Japonaise Brown bread cream ice with 
almonds, flavoured with vanilla and maras- 
chino. 

The following can be cream or water ices 
Creme, or eau, de cafe Coffee cream or water ice. 

de chocolat Chocolate cream or water ice. 

de noyau Noyau cream or water ice. 

d'abricots Apricot cream or water ice. 

de peches Peach cream or water ice. 

de /raises Strawberry cream or water ice. 

de framboises Raspberry cream or water ice. 

de framboises et groseilles Raspberry and currant 
cream or water ice. 

de groseilles Currant cream or water ice. 

de cassis Black currant cream or water ice. 

de cerises Cherry cream or water ice. 

de groseilles vertes Green gooseberry cream or 
water ice. 

de raisins Grape cream or water ice. 

d'ananas Pineapple cream or water ice. 

de bananes Banana cream or water ice. 

de rhubarbe Rhubarb cream or water ico. 

de canneberges Cranberry cream or water ice. 

de citron Lemon cream or water ice. 

d'orangcs Orange cream or water ice. 

d'amandcs Almond cream or water ice. 

de pistachcs Pistachio nut cream or water ice. 

de tutti-frutti Maraschino cream or water ice, 
with pistachios, and dried fruit cut in small 
pieces. 

de marrons Chestnut cream or water ice. 



216 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Creme, or eau, de gingembre Ginger cream or 

water ice. 
Panachee Ices of two or more different colours 

and flavourings. 
In addition to these there are 
Eau de ponche Punch water ice. 
de melon Melon water ice. 
de grenade Pomegranate water ice. 
d'epine-vinette Berberry water ice. 
de mille fruits Mixed fruit water ice. 
de candle Cinnamon water ice. 
Glaces Napolitaines Neapolitan ices, served in 

paper cases. 

Fruits varies ices made in the form and colour 
of a variety of fruits, one of which is served to 
each person. 

If orange ice is made of Chinese oranges it is 
called de Chinois ; if of Tangerine oranges, de 
Tangerines. Muscat grape ice is called de Muscat. 
For water ices fresh fruit is necessary, as 
preserved fruit can only be used for cream 
ices. 

Sorbets are half frozen water ices with wine or 
liqueur. They are served in glasses either before 
or after the remove at a large dinner. 
Ponche a la Romaine is Eoman punch a lemon 
water ice with whipped whites of eggs and rum. 
a la Eegencc is made with the addition of cham- 
pagne and Martinique or Arrack. 
a la Norfolk is made of Seville oranges with 
brandy or rum, etc, 



ICES, OR GLACES, AND SORBETS. 217 

Ponche a la Cardinal is made of Seville oranges 

with champagne, and is coloured red. 
a la Ilusse is made of lemons, with green tea and 

Kiimmel. 

Granito Romaine is made with coffee. 
Sorbet a la Saint-Charles is a cherry water ice 

flavoured with cherry brandy. 
a la Proven$ale is a lemon water ice with whipped 
whites of eggs and shreds of candied fruit and 
almonds, flavoured with ginger and vanilla, 
a la Grecque is an orange ice with maraschino 
and ginger brandy, and small pieces of ginger 
and preserved fruits. 
a VAmericaine is an orange and lemon ice with 

champagne. 
a la Victoria is flavoured with liqueur, and is 

coloured pink. 

a la Cannes is made of tomatoes, apples, and 
apricot jam, with preserved ginger, rum and 
noyau. 

Besides these there are the Sorbets au champagne, 
au Kirsch, etc., and those made of fruit aux /raises, 
a Vorange, a Vananas, aux pechcs, etc. For Sorbet 
a VImperiale, the lower half of the glasses contains 
pineapple ice with rum, the upper half strawberry 
ice with champagne. 



218 MENUS MADE EASY. 



CHAPTEE XII. 

SAUCES AND GARNISHES. 
SAUCES. 

THE following are the principal sauces and garnishes 
which are used in cookery. Many of them have 
been mentioned in the course of these pages, and 
as the names frequently convey no idea of their 
ingredients, a slight description of them is given. 

The two chief sauces are Veloute white, and 
Espagnole brown. Many other sauces are made 
from these. 

Allemande is a thicker form of veloute sauce. 
Anchois (Anchovy) melted-butter sauce with 

anchovy, etc. 
Aubois a sweet sauce of syrup and yolks of eggs 

with whipped cream. 
Aurore Allemande and tomato sauce, with Chili 

vinegar, etc. 
B^arnaise yolks of eggs, butter, French vinegar, 

chopped parsley, etc. 
Bechamel Veloute sauce with cream. For a 

maigre sauce it is made without stock. 
Beurre melted-butter sauce. 



SAUCES AND GARNISHES. 219 

Beurre noir black-butter sauce of browned butter 

and vinegar. This sauce is usually served with 

skate or grilled mackerel. 
Bigarade is made of oranges with brown sauce. 
Blonde melted-butter sauce made with stock 

instead of water. 
Bordelaise brown sauce with wine, chopped 

parsley, etc. 
Bourgeoise stock with French mustard, tarragon, 

etc. 
Bourguignotte brown sauce with wine, onions, 

mushrooms and truffles. 
Bretonne brown sauce with onions, etc. 
Capres (Caper) brown or white sauce, with capers. 
Caramel burnt sugar. It is sometimes made of 

burnt brandy and sugar. 
Cardinal white sauce coloured with lobster or 

crayfish butter. 

Cazanova Mayonnaise sauce with yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, shred whites of eggs and truffles. 
Champignons (Mushroom) brown or white sauce 

with puree of mushrooms. 
Chateaubriand brown sauce with Maitre d'hotel 

sauce. 
Chevreuil Poivrade sauce with wine, Harvey, red 

currant jelly, etc. 
Cornichons (Gherkin) brown sauce with vinegar, 

and pickled gherkins cut in slices. 
Court-bouillon wine, or vinegar and water, butter, 

vegetables, etc. This sauce is only used in 

cooking. 



220 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Creme melted-butter sauce with yolks of eggs 
and cream. 

Crevettes (Shrimp) Cardinal sauce with anchovy 
and shrimps. 

Czarina brown sauce with sultana raisins, gher- 
kins, etc. 

Diable (Devil sauce) brown gravy with Oude and 
Harvey sauce, vinegar, etc. 

Diplomate Bechamel sauce with crayfish or 
lobster butter. 

Duchesse white sauce with chopped mushrooms 
and tongue. 

D'Uxelles white sauce with chopped ham, mush- 
rooms, parsley, etc. 

Estragon (Tarragon) white stock with Tarragon 
vinegar, tarragon, etc. 

Penouil (Fennel) melted butter Bauce with 
chopped fennel. 

Financiere brown sauce with wine, mushroom 
catsup, etc. 

Fines-herbes brown sauce with chopped mush- 
rooms, shallots and parsley. 

Fouette 1 e sweet whip sauce of yolks of eggs, sugar 
and wine. 

Fumet de gibier a brown game sauce with 
onions, wine, etc. 

Genevoise brown sauce with wine, anchovy, 
chopped parsley, etc. This sauce is generally 
used for freshwater fish. 

Groseilles vertes green gooseberries with butter, 
breadcrumbs, etc. For mackerel. 



SAUCES AND GARNISHES*. 221 

Hollandaise yolks of eggs and butter with 

vinegar, etc. 
Homard (Lobster) melted-butter sauce, with 

lobster spawn and the flesh in small pieces. 
Hubert a game sauce with wine and chopped 

truffles. 

Huitres (Oyster) oysters in white or brown sauce. 
Indienne tomato sauce with curry paste, anchovy, 

etc. White Indian sauce is made of Bechamel 

sauce with curry powder. 
Irlandaise green Mayonnaise sauce with whipped 

cream and Tarragon vinegar, and vegetables 

cut in shreds. 
Italienne brown or white sauce with wine, 

chopped shallots, mushrooms, etc. 
Jambon (Ham) brown sauce with shred ham, 

butter, chopped shallots, etc. 
Jolie fille (Fair maid's) white chicken sauce with 

hard-boiled yolks of eggs, breadcrumbs, etc. 
Kari Curry sauce. 
Lyonnaise Tomato sauce with Portugal onions, 

etc. 

Maitre d'hotel Bechamel sauce with chopped 
parsley, etc. It is also made without stock. 

Maltaise white sauce with wine, chopped mush- 
rooms and herbs, and shreds of orange peel. 

Marinade vinegar and water with onions, carrots, 

etc. 

Marrons (Chestnut) chestnut flour with brown 
stock. White chestnut sauce is made of the 
flour with broth and milk. 



222 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Matelote brown stock with wine, young onions, 

mushrooms, etc. White Matelote sauce is a 

white sauce with oysters, mushrooms and 

herbs. 
Mayonnaise a cold sauce of yolks of eggs, oil 

and vinegar. 
Milanaise grated Parmesan with cream sauce, 

or with brown sauce and mustard. 
Mirabeau brown sauce and Tarragon vinegar, 

with butter and chopped herbs. 
Mirepoix broth and wine with bacon, chopped 

vegetables, etc. 
Moules (Mussel) a white sauce with anchovy and 

mussels. 
Mousquetaire oil and Tarragon vinegar, with 

mustard, shallot, etc. 
Mousseline Mayonnaise sauce, whipped aspic and 

cream. Served with fish. It is also a sweet 

sauce of whipped eggs and liqueur. 
Moutarde (Mustard) melted-butter sauce with 

mustard, Chili vinegar, &c. For herrings. 
Napier a white fish sauce with mussels. 
Naples a white Soubise sauce with cheese and 

chopped truffles. 
Napolitaine brown sauce with Port wine, Harvey 

sauce, ham, horseradish, currant jelly, etc. 
CEufs (Egg) melted-butter sauce with hard-boiled 

eggs cut in pieces. Served with haddock and 

salt cod. 
Orange brown sauce with orange juice and shreds 

of orange peel. 



SAUCES AND GARNISHES. 223 

Persil (Parsley) melted-butter sauce with chopped 

parsley. 

Pe"rigueux brown stock with wine and truffles. 
Piquante a highly seasoned brown sauce with 
vinegar, shallots, etc. 

Poivrade a well seasoned brown sauce with vine- 
gar, anchovy, ham, onions, etc. White Poivrade 
sauce is made of white sauce with vinegar, 
onions, etc. 

Portugaise butter, yolks of eggs and lemon juice. 

Poulette Allemande sauce with chopped parsley. 
This is also called JBlanquette. 

Provencale brown sauce and white wine with 
tomatoes, chopped capers, mushrooms, and 
shallots, etc. 

Raifort (Horseradish) cream, vinegar and horse- 
radish. 

Ravigote Maitre d'hotel sauce with Chili vinegar, 
Harvey and anchovy. 

Ravigote verte white sauce with pounded tar- 
ragon, chervil, etc. 

ReTorme brown sauce with wine, currant jelly 
and lemon juice. 

Remoulade broth with mushrooms, chopped 
parsley, mustard, vinegar and garlic. Cold 
Remoulade sauce is made of oil with chopped 
parsley, capers, garlic, etc. 

Richelieu a white game sauce with onions and 

wine. 

Robert brown stock with chopped onions, mus- 
tard and vinegar. 



224 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Russe a white sauce with horseradish, vinegar, 

yolks of eggs and cream. 
Saint-Menehould milk, butter and flour, with 

chopped parsley, mushrooms, etc. 
Salmis a brown game sauce with wine, oil, etc. 
Sicilienne a white sauce with lemon juice and 

shreds of lemon peel and tarragon. 
Soubise a puree of onions with cream. 
Suedoise Mayonnaise sauce with grated horse- 
radish and cream. For a hot sauce white 

sauce with Chili vinegar is substituted for 

Mayonnaise. 
Supreme a white chicken sauce with wine and 

cream. 
Tartars Mayonnaise sauce, or oil and vinegar, 

with mustard, etc. 
Tomates (Tomato) a puree of tomatoes with 

stock, etc. 
Truffes (Truffle) brown sauce with chopped 

truffles.. 
Venitienne white sauce with Tarragon vinegar, 

chopped tarragon and mushrooms. 
Verte green sauce made of wine and stock with 

pounded herbs, yolks of eggs, etc. 
Viennoise a white sauce with chopped ham and 

tarragon, etc. 
Villeroi white sauce flavoured with mushrooms, 

etc. 
Vin de Madere brown sauce with Madeira or 

other wine. It is also a sweet sauce of yolks 

of eggs, wine, etc. 



SAUCES AND GARNISHES. 225 

Vin d' Oporto Port wine with shallots, Harvey, 
etc. This sauce is used for wild ducks. 



GARNISHES. 

Chipolata small round sausages, pieces of bacon, 

mushrooms, chestnuts, etc., with brown 

sauce. 
Pinanciere cock's combs, livers, quenelles, pieces 

of sweetbread, etc., with brown sauce and 

wine. 
Flamande carrots, turnips, cabbages and other 

vegetables, with sausages. 
Godard pieces of sweetbread, quenelles and 

truffles, with brown sauce. 

Italienne minced sweetbreads, ham and mush- 
rooms, with Financiere sauce. 
Jardiniere vegetables cut in shapes, in a light 

glaze. 
Macedoine vegetables cut in shapes, with brown 

or white sauce. 
Milanaise strips of macaroni, ham, chicken, 

truffles, etc., in white sauce with grated 

Parmesan. 
Montglas minced chicken and truffles, with white 

or brown sauce. 
Reforme shred ham, carrots, truffles and whites 

of eggs. 
Royale minced chicken, sweetbreads, foie gras 

and mushrooms, with Bechamel sauce and 

lobster butter. 

Q 



226 MENUS MADE EASY. 

Toulouse Financiere garnish made \vith white 
instead of brown sauce. This is sometimes 
called a white Financiere garnish. 

Valenciennes minced chicken, lobster, mush- 
rooms and artichoke bottoms, with rice, and 
white sauce with curry powder. 



INDEX. 



Almond blancmange, 194 

cakes, 166, 169, 170 

cream, 192 

ices, 215 

meringues, 194 

pastry, 168, 169, 171, 172, 
174, 175 

pudding, 178 

souffle', 199 

soup, 13, 16 

tart, 175, 176 
Amber pudding, 179 
Anchovy hors d'ceuvres, 1 

omelette, 165 

savouries, 204 
Apple charlotte, 188 

compotes, etc., 187 

cream, 194 

curried, 207 

dumplings, 177 

fritters, 184 

jelly, 196 

puddings, 178, 181 

tarts, 175, 176, 177 
Apricot compotes, etc., ISC 

cream, 192 

fritters, 184 

ices, 215 

pastry, 170, 171, 173 

pudding, 177 

souffle', 199 

tarts, 175, 176 
Artichokes, 139 

soup, 15 



Artichokes, Jerusalem, 140 

soup, 14 
Asparagus, 140 

soup, 14 
Aspic of crayfish, 39 

of fowl, 84 

Baba, 167 

Bacon omelette, 1G4 

Bakowell pudding, 179 

Bananas, 190 

Barbel, 17 

Barley cream, 192 

soup, 12, 15 
Bass, 17 
Bavaroiscg, 194 
Beans, broad, 142 
soup, 15 

flageolets, 142 

French, 141 

haricot, 142 

soup, 14 
Beef, brisket of, 108 

chump of, 108 

entries of, 40 

fillet of, 10G 

little fillets of, 46 

pies, 109 

removes of, 106 

ribs of, 108 

roast, 109 

round of, 107 

sirloin of, 106 

steak, 108 



228 



INDEX. 



Beetroot, 142 

salad, 156 
Berberry ice, 21 G 
Blackberry jelly, 197 

mould, 190 
Black-currant ice, 21o 

jelly, 196 

mould, 190 

tart, 175 
Black-diver, 136 
Black game, 99, 136 

removes of, 134 
Blancmanges, 194 
Blanquette of game, 104 

lamb, 73, 74 

poultry, 82, 89 

sweetbread, 63 

veal, 55 

Bloater savouries, 206, 207 
Boar, fillet of, 122 

haunch of, 121 

head, 122 
Brains, calf's, 58 

lamb s, 75 

sheep's, 70 
Brawn, 121 
Bread pudding, 177 

brown, cream, 1!>2 

pudding, 177 
Bream, 18 
Brill, 18 
Brioches, 167 

cheese, 202 
Broccoli, 143 
Broth, 7 

mutton, 11 

Scotch, 11 

Brussels sprouts, 143 
Bubble-and-squeak, 48 
Bustard, 136 

Cabbage, 143 

red, salad, 156 
Cabinet pudding, 179 
Cakes, 166 

cheese, 203 

fish, 25, 39, 41, 43, 44 

little, 169, 170, 171, 172, 173 



CalPs brains, 58 

ears, 59 

feet, 60 
pie, 113 
soup, S 

head, 113 
entrees of, 57 
soup, 8 

kidney, 59 

liver, 59 

tail, 60 
soup, 8 

tongue, 59 

Canape's, savoury, 202, 204, 210 
Capon, removes of, 122 

roast, 136 
Caramel ice, 214 

pudding, 179 
Cardoons, 143 
Carp, 19 
Carrots, 144 

pudding, 179 

soup, 14, 15 

Cases, savoury, 203, 208 
Castle puddings, 183 
Cauliflower, 144 

soup, 14 
Caviar, hors d'oeuvrcs, 2 

savoury, 210 
Celery, 145 

soup, 14 
Chautilly basket, 195 

cream, 193 
Char, 20 
Charlottes, 195 

fruit, 188, 189, 190 
Chartreuse of fruit, 186, 188, 
189, 191 

game, 96, 98 

meat, 56, 68 

poultry, 84, 90 

vegetables, 159 
Chaudfroidofflsh, 30 

game, 95, 97, 98, 101, 103, 
104 

meat, 50, 57, 66 

poultry, 81, 83, 89, 91 
Cheese omelette, 164 



INDEX. 



229 



Cheese savouries, 201 
Cheese-cakes, 175 
Cherry ice, 215 

jelly, 196 

mould, 190 

salad, 159 

tart, 175, 176 

tartlets, 174 
Chestnuts, 146 

compotes, etc., 190 

cream, 192 

ice, 215 

pudding, 178 

savouries, 207 

soup, 14, 15 
Chicken, entrees of, 78 

omelette, 164 

removes of, 122 

roast, 136 

soup, 7, 9, II, 12, 13 

young, 124, 1H6 
Chipolata boudiu, 135 

croustade, 120 

garnish, 225 
Chocolate cakes, 1G7, 168 

cream, 191, 194 

ice, 215 

pudding, 178, 182 

souffle', 198 
Choux pastry, 172 

cheese, 202 

Cinnamon water ice, 216 
Cocoanut meringues, 195 

pudding, 17S 

soup, 16 
Cod, 20 

salt, 21 
Coffee cake, 167 

cream, 192 

custard, 194 

ice, 215 

pastry, 174 

pudding, 179 

souffle, 198 
College puddings, 183 
Compotes of fruit, 186, 187, 189, 

190 
Consommes, 3 



Cruh, 39 

soup, 8 

Cranberry ice, 215 
Crayfish, 39 

sea, 39 

soup, 9 
Creams, 191 

fish, 38, 40, 44 

fowl, 84 

game, 104 

ham, 78 

iced, 196 

savoury, 202, 206, 210 

veal, 56 

vegetable, 140, 150, 159 
Crepinettes of eggs, 104 

fish, 39, 43 

meat, 49, 77 
Croustades, chicken, 87 

fish, 45 

game, 101, 104 

meat, 50, 56, 58, 63. 68, 7t, 
77, 120 

savoury, 210 

sweet, 177, 183 
Cioutes, fruit, 186, 187, 189, 191 

mushroom, 148 

oyster, 42 

savoury, 202, 204, 208 

truffle, 155 
Cucumber, 146 

salad, 156 

soup, 14 
Curasao jelly, 197 

souffle, iced, 200 
Currant fritters, 184 
ice, 215 
tart, 175 

black, ice, 215 
jelly, 196 
mould, 190 
tart, 175 
Custard, 193, 194 

fritters, 184 

pudding, 178, 182 

savoury, 202, 210 

I Da>s 21 



230 



INDEX. 



Damson mould, 187 


Forcemeat pie, 113 


Darioles, 169 


Fowl, 122 


D'Artois, 173 


pure'e of, 13 


Dates, 191 


Frangipane tart, 175 


pudding, 178 


tartlets, 174 


Dauphines, 174 


Fricandeau, beef, 109 


Dormers, beef, 49 


veal, 111 


chicken, 85 


Fritters, 184 


Duck, entrees of, 87 


brain, 58 


removes of, 125 


egg, 164 


roast, 13G 


fish, 43 


wild, entre'es of, 100 


game, 99, 105 


roast, 138 


savoury, 202, 206 


Duckling, 137 


souffle', 185 


Dumplings, 177 


vegetable, 146, 148, 152, 153, 




156 


Eclairs, 172 


Fruit compotes, etc., 186 


savoury, 202 


creams, 192 


Eel-pout, 22 


croutes, 186, 187, 189, 191 


Eels, 21 


fritters, 184 


soup, 8 


gateaux, 187, 188, 189, 190, 


Egg-plant, 147 


191 


Eggs, 161 


ices, 215, 216 


canape's of, 210 


jellies, 196 


plovers', 164 


macedoine, 191 


Scotch, 49 


sorbets, 217 


soup, 4, 5, 9 


souffle's, 199, 200 


Elderflower fritters, 184 


tartlets, 174 


Endive, 147 


tarts, 175, 176 


salad, 156 




soup, 15 


Galantine of fowl, 125 


Epigrammes, lamb, 72, 73 


pheasant, 97 


mutton, 66 


rabbit, 131 


partridge, 98 


turkey, 128 




veal, 113 


Fauchonettes, 174 


Game entrees, 91, 104 


Fig compote, 190 


omelette, 164 


mould, 191 


pies, 134, 135 


pudding, 178 


soups, 7,8,9, 13, 15 


Fish entre'es, 43 


Garnishes, 225 


savouries, 204-207 


Gaufres, 172 


soups, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 


Genoese cakes, 167 


Flageolets, 142 


pastry, 167 


Flounders, 22 


Giblets, 89, 90 


Foie-gras, 87 


omelette, 165 


Fondues, cheese, 201 


pie, 127 


salsifis, 152 


pudding, 127 


Forcemeat, liver, 59 


soup, 8 



INDEX. 



231 



Ginger cream, 102 


Iced creams, 196 


ice, 216 


pudding, 182 


pudding, 178 


souffle's of cbicken, 84 


souffle', 199 


of fish, 45 


Goose, entrees of, 89 


of fruit, etc., 199 


removes of, 126 


of ham, 78 


roast, 137 


Ices, cream, 214 


Gooseberry cream or fool, 192 


Neapolitan, 216 


ice, 215 


water, 215, 216 


pudding, 177 


Irish stew, 66 


St. Honore', 190 




tart, 175, 176 


Jam fritters, 184 


Grape ice, 215, 216 


omelette, 165 


jelly, 198 


puffs, 173 


tart, 175 


roll, 177 


Greengage croutes, 187 


souffle', 199 


tart, 175 


tartlets, 174 


Grenadins, beef, 47 


Jellies, aspic, with eggs, 164 


veal, 54 


fish, 22, 33, 39, 40, 44 


Grouse, entre'es of, 99 


foie-gras, 87 


removes of, 133 


fowl, 84 


roast, 137 


larks, 104 


soup, 8, 13 


meat, 57, 74 


Gudgeon, 23 


sweetbread, 62, 75 


Guinea fowl, 137 


fruit, etc., 196 


Gurnard, 23 


mushroom, 149 




savoury, 205, 207 


Haddock, 23 


tomato, 154 


Hake, 24 


John Dory, 25 


Halibut, 24 




Ham croutes, 204 
entrees of, 77 
omelette, 164 
removes of, 121 
Hare, entre'es of, 92 


Kabobs, Indian, 69 
Kidney, calf's, 59 
omelette, 165 
sheep's, 69 
SOHD 8 


removes of, 129 


Kiselle, 198 


roast, 137 


Kromeskies, 42, 105 


soup, 8 




Haricot of mutton, G3 




of veal, 55 


Lamb, brains, 75 


Haricot beans, 142 


breast of, 119 


soup, 14 


cutlets, 71 


Hazel bens, 137 
Herrings, 24 


ears, 75 
entrees of, 71 


savouries, 206, 209 


feet, 74 


Hodge-podge soup, 1 1 
Honey pudding, 179 
Hors d'ceuvres, 1 


lorequarter of, 117 
haunch of, 117 
leg of, 118 



232 



INDEX. 



Lamb, loin of, 118 

neck of, 119 

pie, 119 

removes of, 117 

saddle of, 118 

shoulder of, 119 

sweetbreads, 75 

tails, 74 
soup, 8 

tongues, 75 
Lamprey, 26 
Lapwing, 137 

eggs, 164 
Larks, entrees of, 103 

pies, 134 

roast, 137 
Lax, 2 
Leeks, 147 
Lemon ice, 215 

jelly,'196 

pudding, 178 

souffle', 198 
Lentils, 147 

soup, 15 
Lettuce, 147 
Leveret. 137 
Lobster, 39 

croutes, 209 

soup, 9 

Macaroni, 211 

pudding, 177 

soup, 5, 13 
Macedoine, fruit, 191 

garnish, 225 

jelly, 197 

omelette, 165 

salad, 156, 159 

soup, 6 
Mackerel, 26 
Madeleines, 169 
Maraschino blancmange, 191 

cream, 192 

jelly, 197 

souffle', 198, 199 
Marinade, 221 
Marmalade pudding, 179 
Marrow, 50 



Marrow croutes, 209 
Mayonnaise, eels, 22 

fowl, 83 

game, 104 

lobster, 40 

salmon, 30 

soles, 33 

vegetable, 159 
Medlar jelly, 197 
Melon ice, 216 
Meringues, 194 

cheese, 203 

fruit, 183, 185, 187, 188, 
190 

tart, 176 
Mince pies, 173 
Mirepoix, 222 
Mirlitons, 174 
Mock-turtle soup, 8, 9 
Morels, 147 
Mulberry jelly, 197 
Mullets, grey, 27 

red, 27 

Mulligatawny soup, 7, 8 
Mushrooms, 148 

croutes, 148, 209 

omelette, 164 
Mussels, 41 

soup, 9 
Mutton, breast of, 117 

broth, 11 

carbonade, 67, 116 

chops, 66 

cutlets, 63 

entre'es of, 63 

fillets, 67, 68 

haunch of, 113 

leg of, 114 

loin of, 116 

neck of, 115 

pies, 117 

pudding, 117 

removes of, 113 

saddle of, 114 

shoulder of, 117 

Southdown, 114 

steak, 117 



INDEX. 



233 



Noisettes of lamb, 73 


Pancakes, vegetable, 160 


of mutton, 67 


Parfait, 196 


Nougat, 191 


Parmesan omelette, 164 


Noyau cream, 192 


savouries, 201 


ice, 215 


Parsnips, 149 


jelly, 197 


Partridge, entrees of, 97 




removes of, 132 




roast, 137 


Oatmeal soup, 15 


soup, 8 


Olive hors d'ceuvres, 2 
omelette, 165 


Pastry, almond, 169 
choux, 172 


savouries, 204 
Olives, beef, 48 


Genoese, 167 
puff, 170-172 


veal, 56 
Omelettes, 164 
soufflees, 165 


rolled, 173 
Pasty, Cornish, 69 
venison, 129 


sweet, 165 
Onions, 149 


Patties, beef, 49 
cheese, 203 


soup, 14 


chicken, 84> 


Orange compotes, etc., 190 


crayfish, 39 


cream, 192 
fritters, 184 


foie gras, 87 
game, 105 


ice, 215, 216 


kidney, 70 


jelly, 196, 198 


lobster, 40 


ineringne, 183 


marrow, 50 


pudding, 178 


mutton, 69 


tart, 176 
Orange-flower cream, 192 


oj>ter, 42 
shrimp, 43 


ice, 214 
Ortolans, entre'es of, 104 


tongue, 52 
veal, 57 


roast, 137 
Ox cheek, 51 


Peach, compotes, etc., 180 
fritters, 184 


pie, 110 


ice, 215 


soup, 8 


tarts, 175, 176 


kidney soup, 8 
palates, 50 


Peahen, 137 
Pears, compotes, etc., 189 


tail, 52 


custard, 194 


soup, 8 


fritters, 184 


tongue, 110 


tart, 175, 176 


entrees of, 51 


Peas, 149 


Oysters, 1, 41 _ 
omelette, 165 


soup, 14, 15 
Perch, 28 


savouries, 206 


Pheasant, entre'es of, 96 


soup, 5, 9 


removes of, 131 




roast, 137 


Pancakes, 185 


soup, 8 


cheese, 202 


Pies, beef, 109 


chicken, 85 


calf's feet, 113 



234 



INDEX. 



Pies, chicken, 125 

forcemeat, 113 

game, 134, 135 

giblet, 127 

grouse, 134 

hare, 130 

lamb, 119 

lark, 134 

mutton, 117 

ox-cheek, 110 

partridge, 133 

pheasant, 132 

pigeon, 129 

pork, 120 

rabbit, 131 

sheep's head, 117 

sucking pig, 121 

veal, 113 
Pig's ears, 78 

feet, 78 
Pigeon, entre'es of, 90 

removes of, 128 

roast, 137. 
Pike, 28 
Pilau, fish, 45 

fowl, 123 

mutton, 68 

of rice soup, 11 

veal, 55 
Pilchards, 28 
Pineapple cream, 192 

fritters, 184 

ice, 215 

jelly, 197 

mould, 190 

pudding, 178 
Pintail, 137 
Pistachio cake, 166 

custard, 194 

ice, 215 
Plaice, 28 
Plover, entre'es of, 100 

pies, 134 

roast, 137 
Plovers' eggs, 164 
Plum compotes, etc., 187 

jelly, 196 

pudding, 177 



Plum tart, 175 

tartlets, 174 
Pomegranate ice, 216 

jelly, 197 
Pork, chine of, 120 

cutlets, 76 

entrees of, 76 

fillets, 77 

leg of, 120 

loin of, 120 

neck of, 120 

pies, 120 

removes of, 119 

saddle of, 119 

salt, 120 

sausages, 77 

spare-rib of, 120 
Potatoes, 150 

salad, 156 

soup, 12, 13 
Prairie birds, 137 
Prawns, 43 
Profiteroles, 173 

soup, 5 

Prunes, 187, 191 
Ptarmigan, 99 
Puddings, 177 

cold, 179, 181, 182, 183 

fruit, 177, 178 

ice, 182 

game, 134, 135 

giblet, 127 

little, 182, 183 

mutton, 117 

plum, 177 

rice, etc., 177 
Puffs, jam, 173 
Pullet, removes of, 122 

roast, 137 
Punch, 216 

cream, 192 

ice, 216 

jelly, 197 
Pure'es of fowl, 13 

game, 13 

rice, barley, etc., 15 

vegetables, 13 



INDEX. 



235 



Purees, dressed vegetable, 142, 


Sago pudding, 177 


144, 146, 147, 148, 149, 152, 


soup, 11, 12 


155, 160 


Salads (see also MAYONNAISES), 


Purslane, 152 


156 




beef, 48 


Quails, entrees of, 102 


cheese, 201 


pies, 134' 


cherry, 159 


roast, 138 


fowl, 82, 83 


Quenelles, cheese, 202 


grouse, 99 


cream, 183 


orange, 190 


fish, 41, 45 


Salmon, 29 


fowl, 86 


Salsifis, 152 


game, 104 


Sandwiches, savoury, 211 


ham, 78 


Sardines, hors d'ceuvrea, 1 


marrow, 50 


savouries, 204 


pheasant, 97 


Sauces, 218 


potato, 151 


Sausages, Bologna, 1 


semolina, 184 


oyster, 42 


veal, 57 


pork, 77 


Quince jelly, 197 


veal, 56 


and apple tart, 175 


Savarin, 167 




Savouries, cases, 203, 208 


Rabbit, entre'es of, 93 


cheese, 201 


removes of, 13 J 


creams, 210 


roast, 138 


croutes, 202, 201, 20S 


soup, 8, 13 


fish, 204 


Ramequins, 201 


jellies, 205, 207 


Raspberry cream, 192 


macaroni, 211 


custard, 194 


rice, 212 


ice, 215 


sandwiches, 211 


jelly, 197 


souffles, 201,207 


meringue, 190 


vegetable, 204, 207 


Ratafia ice, 214 


vermicelli, 212 


Rhubarb ice, 215 


Scallops, 41 


tart, 175 


Scotch broth, 11 


Rice cake, 167 


collops, 55 


cream, 192 


eggs, 49 


fritters, 184 


woodcock, 208 


moulds, etc., 183 


Seakale, 152 


pancakes, 185 


Semolina cake, 107 


pudding, 177 


croquettes, 18iJ 


savoury, 212 


pudding, 177 


souffle', 199 


quenelles, 184 


soup, 5, 7, 11, 15 


soup, 5 


Roe, 19 


Shad, 31 


savouries, 207 


Sheep's brains, 70 


Roebuck, entrees of, 92 


head pie, 117 


removes of, 129 


eoup, 11 



236 



INDEX. 



SIieep'8 feet, 70 

kidneys, 69 
soup, 8 

tails, 70 

tongues, 70 
Shovellers, 138 
Shrimps, 43 

savouries, 206 

soup, 8 
Skate, 31 
Smelts, 31 
Snipes, entre'es of, 101 

pies, etc., 134 

roast, 138 
Soles, 32 

soup, 12 

Sorbets, 216, 217 
Sorrel soup, 15 
Souche' of fisb, 23 
Souffle's, 198 

cheese, 201 

fish, 38, 45 

fowl, 84 

game, 99 

iced, fish, 45 
fowl, 84 
ham, 78 
sweet, 199 

meat, 57, 78 

savoury, 207 

vegetable, 145, 151, 154 
Soups, chicken, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 

clear, 3-8 

fish, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 

game, 7, 8, 9, 13, 15 

maigre, 15, 16 

purees of fowl, 13 
game, 13 
rice, etc., 15 
vegetables, 11, 12, 13-16 

thick, 7-16 

Sparghetti macaroni, 212 
Spinach, 153 

croutes, 209 

soup, 13, 14 
Sponge cakes, 168 
pudding, 179 
Sponge, orange, 190 



Sprats, 31 

Strawberry chartreuse, etc., 183 

creams, 192, 194, 195 

fritters, 184 

gateau, 170 

ices, 215 

jelly, 197 

omelette, 165 

souffle, iced, 200 

tartlets, 174 

tarts, 175, 176 

trifle, 195 
Straws, bloater, 206 

cheese, 203 

potato, 151 

tomato, 207 
Sturgeon, 34 
Sucking-pig, 121 
Sue'doises, 172 
Sultana pudding, 178 
Sweetbread, 60 

lamb's, 75 
Swiss roll, 168 

Tapioca cream, 192 

pudding, 177 

souffle', 199 

soup, 5, 11, 12, 15 
Tartlets, 174, 176 

curried fish, 45 

savoury, 203, 205 
Tarts, 175 

open, 175, 176 
Tea cream, 192 

ice, 214 
Teal, entre'es of, 100 

roast, 138 
Tench, 34 
Tipsy cake, 169 
Tomatoes, 153 

omelette, 164 

salad, 156, 159 

savouries, 207 

soup, 12, 13, 14 
Tongue, calf s, 59 

croutes, 204 

lamb's, 75 

ox, 51, 110 



INDEX. 



237 



Tongues, sheep's, 70 


Vegetable curry, 160 


Trifle, 195 


mayonnaise, 159 


Trout, 34 


omelette, 165 


Truffles, 154 


pancakes, 160 


omelette, 164 


pure'es, 13, 160 


Tunny, 35 


Vegetable marrow, 155 


Turbot, 35 


soup, 14 


Turkey, entre'es of, 89 


Venison, entre'es of, 91 


removes of, 127 


hashed, 91 


roast, 138 


haunch of, 129 


Turnips, 155 


removes of, 129 


soup, 14 


soup, 8 


Turtle soup, 7 


Vermicelli croquettes, 183 




pudding, 177 


Vanilla blancmange, 194 


savoury, 212 


cream, 192 


soup, 5, 11 


ice, 214 




pudding, 178 


Wafers, 172 


souffle', 198, 200 


"Watercress salad, 156 


tartlets, 174 


Weavers, 37 


Veal, breast of, 112 


Welsh rare-bit, 210 


chump of, 110 


Whitebait, 37 


cream of, 56 


Whiting, 37 


cutlets, 52 


Whiting pollock, 38 


entre'es of, 52 


Widgeon, 138 


fillet of, 110 


Wild duck, entrees of, 100 


knuckle of, 112 


roast, 138 


loin of, 111 


Wine jelly, 197 


neck of, 112 


Woodcocks, entre'ee of, 101 


pies, 113 


roast, 133 


removes of, 110 


soup, 8 


steak, 112 




tendons, 54 


Yams, 156 


Vegetable chartreuse, 159 





PRINTED BV WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, 
LONDON AND BECCLES. 



PRACTICAL HANDBOOKS. 



Price 2s. 6d. each. 

HANDY INFORMATION BOOKS. 

In crown 8vo, cloth gilt extra. 
BY A MEMBER 0? THE ARISTOCRACY. 

THE MANNERS AND RULES OF GOOD SOCIETY. The Standard Handbook 
of Etiquette. New and Thoroughly Revised and Extended Edition. 
" This book may be accepted as a standard work Of reference on all question 
Of etiquette." The Queen. 

SOCI ETY SMALL TALK ; or, What to Say and When to Say it. Tenth 

Edition. 
THE MANAGEMENT OF SERVANTS: A Practical Guide to the Routine of 

Domestic Service. Fourth Edition. 

" To masters and mistresses we commend this very useful book of reference 
containing information for the management of servants in all grades of society, 
detailing the work in each department." Lady'$ Pictorial, 

PARTY GIVING ON EVERY SCALE; or, The Cost of Entertainments. 
Second Edition. 

"This handy book is fall of information of a really practical kind, and it takes 
into account innumerable wants of various circles." Midland Herald, 

TH E COR R EOT G U I D E TO LETTER WRITING. Fifth Edition. 

HEALTH, BEAUTY AND THE TOILET: Letters to Ladies from a Lady 
Doctor. By ANNA KINGSFORD, M.D. Paris. Third Edition. 
" A book we have much pleasure in recommending to every woman, young or 
old, who cares as every real woman does to look her best in the eyes of those 
around her." Le Follet. 

MENUS MADE EASY; or, How to Order Dinner and Give the Dishes their 
French Names. By NANCY LAKE. Sixth Edition. 
" The book will be a great help to those who have to write menus, and I 
cordially recommend it." Hotel Mail. 

THE HOME, as it Should be : Its Duties and Amenities. By L. VALEN- 
TINE. Second Edition. 

TRICKS WITH CARDS: A Complete Manual of Card Conjuring. By 
Professor HOFFMANN. Illustrated with over a Hundred Practical 
Illustrations and Diagrams. 

" Without doubt the best and most practical book as a guide to the art of con- 
juring we have seen, the tricks and instructions given are clear and well illustrated 
in the diagrams." Lloyfi. 

BIRD- KEEPING: A Practical Guide to the Management of Cage and Sing, 
ing Birds. By C. E. DYSON. Illustrated with numerous Wood En- 
gravings and Coloured Plates. 

DAILY Dl N N ERS. 366 Menus in English and French. By NANCY LAKE, 
Author of " Menus Made Easy." 

" A capital little book for ladies who find difficulty in varying their menus and 
who are blest with idealess cooks, and it will be found most useful for planning out 
dinners which are both dainty and inexpensive." .Jfjrro't Journal. 

HOW WE ARE GOVERNED: A Handbook of the Constitution, Govern- 
ment, Laws and Power of the British Empire. By ALBANY DK 
FONBLANQUB. Sixteenth Edition, Revised and Re-edited by W. J. 
GORDON. 

" The book, besides being a capital one to put into the hands of a student, is 
BO written as to be attractive to the reader seeking knowledge on the origin and 
progress of mu^ic as an art." Jfuiical Standard. 



FREDERICK WARNE AND co.'s PUBLICATIONS; 

Price 2s. Gd. each. 

THE CANARY: Its Varieties, Management and Breeding. By Rev. F. 
SMITH. 

"A useful handbook giving extensive and accurate information as to the 
management of these most delightful of household pets," Pancitr'i Gazette, 

MUSICAL GROUNDWORK: Being a First Manual of Musical Form and 

History for Students and Readers. By FREDERICK J. CROWEST. 

" We have not met with any manual of the same kind so well calculated to 

quicken the mind of the musical reader and thenco to stimulate him to a more 

extended study of the history and science of musical form." Manchester Guardian. 



MODERN MANUALS. 

Price Is. Gd. each, Price Is. each, 

In square f cap. Svo, cloth gilt. In square f cap. 8vo, neat binding (new style). 
MODERN ETIQUETTE, in Public and Private. Including Society at 
Large, the Etiquette of Weddings, the Bali-Room, the Dinner Table, 
The Toilet, &c. &c. A New and Revised Edition. 

" This little volume, which has long maintained the highest reputation, will be 
found in its new form to be still more useful and reliable on this complex subject." 

MODERN HOYLE; or, How to Play "Whist, Chess, Draughts, Euchre, 
Poker, Napoleon, Bdsique, Backgammon, Dominoes, Solo Whist, 
Ecarte, &c. &c. By Professor HOFFMANN. 
" This volume is the recognised standard handbook on the rules and methods 

adopted in playing Card Games, &c." 

THE BEST OF EVERYTHING. Practical Information on a Thousand 

Subjects. By the Author of " Enquire Yftthin." New Edition. 

" VVe have in this little work most useful information on subjects of every kind, 

given 'in plain language, rendering .to the reader ' The Best of Everything ' in a 

popular form, of easy reference and undoubted practical value." Brighton Examiner. 

HINTS ABOUT HOME AND FARM FAVOURITES : For Pleasure, Prize and 
Profit. By GORDON STABLES, M.D., C.N., R.N. 

"This work may well be called a multum-in-parvo on the subject; with such a 
book as this anyone should be able, not only to choose a pet, but manage to keep 
that pet happy and well when they get it." 

Price Is. eacli: 

KEW EDITION OF GAMES FOR FAMILY PARTIES. 

In crown 8vo, picture boards. 

GAMES FOR FAMILY PARTIES. By Mrs. VALENTINE. With 100 Illusts. 
A most attractive volume, which will give much pleasure and amusement to 
k.ome circles. 

PROFESSOR HOFFMANN ON CARD CONJUEINO. 

In crown 8vo, with Illusts. and Diagrams, stiff picture cover, cut flush, 
CARD TRICKS WITH APPARATUS. 
CARD TRICKS WITHOUT APPARATUS. 



In small crovm 8vo, cloth boards, round corners. 
HOME ACTING for Amateurs. FIRST SERIES. Six Original Comediettas 

by NELLA PARKER. 

HOME ACTING for Amateurs. SECOND SERIES. Seven Original Come- 
diettas by NELL A. PARKER, &c. 
** Each of the Plays are published separately, sewed, price 3d. 



UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY 



A 000 085 276 4 




