=0) 
=CM 

=00 
=^ 

■o 
■o 







Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/badairbadhealthOOwageuoft 



^-:S\ 



BAD AIR AND 
BAD HEALTH 

BY 

HAROLD WAGER 

AND 

AUBERON HERBERT 

Dedicated to Professor Clifford AUbutt with the 
esteem and regard of the writers. 



[This Paper has been reprinted from the Contemporary Review hy permission 
of the Editor, and altered and enlarged. For a part of the additions Mr. 
Auberon Herbert is alone responsible, — Mr. Wager, much to his regret, 
having been prevented b}'- special circumstances from giving full attention 
to the matter.] 

" It is but too common for men to treat that which is their best 
friend as a dangerous enemy." 



WILLIAMS & NORGATE 

14, HENRIETTA STREET, COYENT GARDEN, LONDON; 

20, SOUTH FREDERICK STREET, EDINBURGH. 



1894. 




BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH 



I HE purpose of this paper is to utter a warning against the 
A careless way in which the mass of people, poor and rich, 
ignorant and learned, allow the air of their living-rooms to be in 
an impure condition ; and to point out the great sacrifice of 
energy and health which results from this carelessness. We shall 
try to show that there is a strong ground for believing that not 
only a large part of the ever-increasing trouble of bronchial and 
lung affections, but also a very large part of that vague and subtle 
ill-health, which troubles our modern lives in varying forms, are to 
be placed to the account of the impure air which we so habitually 
breathe."^ 

As we wish to make the paper plain to every one, we shall 
occasionally go back to the A B C of certain matters involved. 
The air which we breathe is made up of two gases, one active, 
one indifferent. The active gas, oxygen, on which life depends, 
is in pure air in the proportion of about one-fifth (nearly 21 per 
cent.) of the whole ; the indifferent gas, nitrogen, which tempers 
and dilutes its active partner, is in the proportion of four-iifths 
(just over 79 per cent.), and with these two gases is found a small 
quantity — continually varying according to circumstances — of car- 
bonic acid, about three to four parts in 10,000 parts, or -04 per 
cent., and in addition a minute quantity of a peculiarly active form 
of oxygen, called ozone, which is said to be rarely found in the air 
of towns. Of this gas-mixture (which we call air) we breathe 
enormous quantities. Of it we breathe in the twenty-four hours, 
according to Professor M. Foster, over 2600 gallons, that is about 
425 cubic feet. As it returns from our lungs, the proportions 

* Another article will follow the present article. At the end of this article 
is a list of the boolcs referred to, with explanation as regards the manner of 
reference, and a list of medical terms employed, with translation of their 
meaninsrs. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 3 

of the mixture are changed, the oxygen being reduced, and the 
carbonic acid increased.* But in all ordinary cases the quantity of 
oxygen in a room in which people are meeting is not greatly 
decreased, Avhilst neither this decrease, nor the increase of the 
carbonic acid, is sufficient to account for all the bad effects. 
How, then, arises the mischief ? 

The truth is that in taking air into the lungs and breathing it 
out again, we breathe out with it an organic poison. About the 
existence and presence of this poison there can hardly be doubt, 
though but little is known about its nature. Of it Dr. Foster 
writes (p. 552) that it may be formed in the lungs, or it may be 
a product of putrefractive decomposition, allied to a class of 
poisons known as ptomaines, which are found in the system. 
Dr. A. Ransome ("Health Lectures," 1875—76, p. 160) says: 

''The aqueous vapour arising from the breath, and from the general surface 
of the body, contains a minute proportion of animal refuse matter, which 
has been proved, by actual experiment, to be a deadly poison. . . It is this 
substance that gives the peculiar, close, unpleasant smell which is perceived 
on leaving the fresh air and entering a confined space occupied by human 
beings or other animals. . . Air thus charged has been fully proved to be the 
great cause of scrofulous or tubercular diseases, and it is the home and 
nourisher of those subtle microscopic forms of life that have lately become so 
well known under the title of germs of disease, or microzyms. It is probably 
the source of a large part of that increase of mortality that seems inevitably 
to follow the crowding together of the inhabitants of towns." 

Aitken says (27) : " It has been found that air spoiled by the 
breathing of human beings contains small quantities of one or 
more extremely poisonous substances, which Du Bois-Kaymond 
has named ' anthropotoxine.' " Gautier (214) sums up the 
changes that take place in air that has passed through the 
lungs : — Increase of carbonic acid, slight diminution of oxygen, 
increase of nitrogen and water vapour, presence of poisonous 
vapours, or at least of matters that are putrid, or in a state of 
gas, and giving rise presently to putrid gaseous (putrescibles 
gazeuses) matters, or matters in a state of fine division and 
suspension in the air; whilst the causes of these changes are — 
"the complex organic products of human or animal respiration, 

* It must be remembered that the act of breathing consists in bringing the 
blood of the system in contact with air, through a delicate membrane in the 
lungs. Here an exchange takes place — oxygen being yielded up from the air 
to the blood, and carbonic acid from the blood to the air. 



4 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

and of the breathing through the skin ; the gases that escape 
from bodies ; the consumption of oxygen, Sec," 

Galton says (" Our Homes." p. 497) : " This organic matter " 
(given off from the lungs), " on an average, may be estimated at 
thirty or forty grains a day for each adult ;"*' and both Dr. 
Carpenter and Sir Douglas Galton notice that if breath be passed 
through water (and then kept in a closed vessel at a high 
temperature), putrefraction is set up, and an offensive smell is 
given off.f 

Now let us take the case of a person who sits in a perfectly closed 
room, ten feet high, ten feet broad, and fifteen feet long, for five 
hours. At the end of that time he is breathing air which contains 
1*2 per cent, less oxygen than it ought to contain. Now this is 
serious enough, but besides this, he is breathing some air which has 
already entered into and passed out from his lungs, and is therefore 
charged with this special poison. Here seems the great secret of 
the fatal mischief. Nature has got rid of the poison, thrown it out 
of the system, but the perverse occupant of the room insists on 
thwarting Nature, and, by means of his closed doors and windows, 
breathes in again, — it may be a second time or a third time, — the 
poison that has been once safely got rid of. Say that in twenty- 
four hours 425 cubic feet have passed once through his lungs, 
then in six hours our friend will have vitiated one quarter of 
that quantity, or 106 cubic feet — i.e., about one-fourteenth of the 
whole air in the room in which we have supposed him to be 
sitting, and which contains 1500 feet of air. If he still goes on 
sitting in his study, at the end of nine hours he will have vitiated 
159 cubic feet, or about one-ninth of the whole ; or if he has 
been unfortunate enough to have had a friend sitting with him, 
then in six hours they will have vitiated one-seventh of the air ; 
and of every mouthful of air they breathe after that time, one- 
seventh part of such air must be supposed to be charged with 
poisons that have been already once got rid of, but are now 

* We do not know by whom this calculation was made. 

t Foster (p. 552) states that ' 'when the expired air is condensed . . the aqueous 
product is found to contain organic matter, which, from the presence of micro- 
organisms is very apt rapidly to putrefy." L. P. writes to us : "If a 

globe be filled with^ ice and taken into a close, badly ventilated room, the 
dew which forms outside is found to be contaminated with these organic 
impurities." L. T. writes: "It is more than likely that it is this animal 
poison which is the direct cause of typhus fever, as that follows overcrowding 
with mathematical precision." 



UAL) AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 6 

being retaken into the system. Of course this proportion of one- 
seventh will not remain constant. Each breath expired will make 
the matter worse. ^* That we do inspire such impurities of the 
air, we know, not only from the consequences that follow the 
breathing of impure air, but from a common experience referred 
to by Professor Beale (S.A., 125) that a person may breathe in 
a putrid smell, and then breathe it out again — the taste and 
smell persisting for some time. 

As a matter of fact, the supposed study does not strictly con- 
form to facts, and the oxygen would not be reduced to this very 
serious extent in any ordinary room, since some air enters under 
doors, by the side of window-frames, and even through brick walls, 
when dry. Quite apart, however, from the question of the poisons 
which we breathe out into the air, a loss of r2 in the quantity of 
oxygen (^.e., r2 per cent, of the whole air, or a reduction in the 
amount of oxygen itself from 20-96 to 19"76) would be a very large 
and hurtful loss. Probably any loss of oxygen amounting to two or 
three tenths of 1 per cent, is hurtful. Angus Smith records (p. 25) 
some reductions of oxygen : after a lecture at the Sorbonne, 19*86 ; 
a public elementary school, 20'65 ; an English law court, 20-49 — 
end of sitting — (p. 67) and some low amounts in mines under 
special circumstances. Indeed, much lower figures have been given 
for mines, but they seem doubtful, since whenever a reduction in 
the amount of the oxygen of the air takes place from 20-96 
(natural quantity) to 18 per cent, (z'.e., nearly 3 per cent, of the 
whole air), being accompanied with an increase in the carbonic 
acid from -04 (normal quantity) to 3 per cent., the candles in mines 

* In order to keep the air of a room in thoroughly pure condition, the large 
quantity of about 3600 cubic feet of outside air should be admitted per grown-up 
male per hour (Parkes, p. 179). Large as this quantity is, it will not keep the 
room pure, if those in it are engaged in active work. In work, more carbonic 
acid is evolved from the body than in repose, and the larger amount of 4750 
cubic feet of fresh air per head p. hour is required. This, however, is light 
work. In hard work, nearly 10,000 cubic feet would be wanted. In hospitals 
again, very large quantities should be supplied. It may be considered ideal 
to seek to make the air of a room as pure as the outside air ; and we should 
have reason to be only too grateful if care were ordinarily taken to supply 
something a good deal less than the quantities of air just named. 

It should be noticed that in these cases the vitiation of the air is indirectly 
measured by the quantity of carbonic acid, which, resulting from the breath- 
ing of the persons in the room, is in excess of the normal quantity (4 in 
10,000 parts). It is a convenient and probably fairly accurate test, since 
the impurities generally increase proportionately with the carbonic acid, and 
carbonic acid is easily ascertained, the organic impurity only with difficulty. 

! 



6 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

cease to burn (p. 81). This extinction of the candles, however, 
is due to the presence of carbonic acid as well as to the loss of 
oxygen. The influence of both can be fairly measured by 
the fact (stated by Dr. Angus Smith in another place, p. 165), 
that when air contains only 18*5 of oxygen, with about 25 of 
carbonic acid — a point at which the candles went out — (the 
figures quoted just above are apparently intended to leave a 
margin) if the carbonic acid be removed from the air by chemical 
means, the candle still burns, though with a little less than half 
of its full light, — the light being only -45 per cent. ; and we 
might add to this statement the fact that a candle M'ill bum with 
as much as 10 per cent, of carbonic acid in the air, if the normal 
quantity of oxygen be supplied (Quain, i., 208). It is interesting 
to remark here, that a man can live in air where neither candle 
nor lamp can burn, just because the venous blood has stronger 
affinity for oxygen than has candle substance or oil (Angus Smithy 
p. 75), and life can be sustained until oxygen drops to 10 or 12 p.c. 
of the total air ; but at the same time the effects of diminished 
oxygen must be very hurtful. If the light of a candle be reduced 
by one- third when the oxygen is only reduced by '8 {i.e., from 
20'96 to 20' 16 per cent.), we may be sure that we too must 
suffer much from diminished oxidization in the same fashion as 
the candle. It must be so, since any diminution of oxygen, 
and any increase of carbonic acid, in the air that we are breath- 
ing, means that less work of blood purification can be done in 
equal times, — each cubic inch of such air, carried to the lungs, 
presenting less oxygen for the blood to seize and to make 
use of. Dr. Angus Smith, who performed some very interesting 
experiments on himself, on his friends, and on candles, in a lead 
chamber, believes that very small reductions in the amount of the 
oxygen in the air affect us prejudicially. He points out (p. 69) 
that in nature the reduction of the amount of oxygen in the air is 
very limited ; and that such reduction — marking the difference 
between healthy and unhealthy places — is only about the l-25th of 
the reduction that took place in an English law court (200 parts in 
nature, per million, as against 5,000). Gautier (i., 218) also thinks 
that any decrease in the oxygen of the air is more hurtful than 
an increase in the carbonic acid. Moreover, Dr. Angus Smith 
points out (29) what is of great importance, that when the air 
is impure, by that very fact, the proportion of oxygen is still 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 7 

further lessened. We should, indeed, naturally expect this to be 
the case, as the oxygen would be taken up by the impurities in 
the air.* Of course it is quite possible — as in the case of 
excessive alcohol taking, or other unhealthy habits — that we 
may not feel for months, or even for years, the effects of slight 
oxygen starvation, but the great and expensive labour that nature 
undergoes, in every human body, to supply the blood with oxygen, 
is an eloquent fact that we should never allow ourselves to forget. 
Professor Foster (p. 254) calculates that the total work done by the 
heart in a day is about the equivalent of a journey up Snowdon, 
•or the lifting of 75,000 kilograms up the height of one metre. If 
we credit half this work as done for the purpose of bringing the 
blood to the lungs, and there discharging carbonic acid and taking 
in oxygen, and if we add to it the continual and costly movement of 
the muscles which are concerned in respiration (the contraction 
of the chest cavity takes place about 17 times a minute, and is 
stated by Professor Haughton — Carpenter, p. 324 — to be equal to 
the lifting of 21 tons one foot in 24 hours), we can fairly realise 
how imperative is our physical duty not to waste or defeat any part 
of this great labour — undertaken for the sake of blood purification — 
l)y our own carelessness as regards the quality of the air that we are 
breathing in our houses. Nature has done her part ; it is but fair 
that we in turn should do our part also.f 

Before leaving this part of our subject, we ought to say some 
words on carbonic acid. We have three things to consider as regards 
the air of our living rooms, (1) as we breathe, we lessen the oxygen 
in every confined space ; (2) we increase in proportion the carbonic 
^cid — oxygen being taken into the lungs, carbonic acid being given 

* The winters found in Scotland that the test paper showed ozone in the 
air at a slight distance from the house, but would not show it in the house, 
though windows were always open. 

f It is right to refer here to the experiments of Dr. Marcet and Mr. Russell. 
They found, we believe, that the result of breathing air with an excess of 
carbonic acid was to increase the quantity of oxygen inspired — not having 
the papers before us, we presume through quickening of respiration — and to 
decrease the carbonic acid expired. (Proceedings of Royal Society, June 4, 
1891.) This decrease of the carbonic acid expired (which would be still 
greater, as we should expect, but for the increase of oxygen inspired) shews 
the depression of certain vital functions — such as the changes connected with 
the getting rid of waste — following upon the breathing of an excess of 
^carbonic acid ; just as Miiller found in the reverse case that more carbonic acid 
■was expired — i.e., certain vital functions were quickened — when excess of 
oxygen was inspired. 



8 3AD AIR AND BAB HEALTH. 

out ; (3) we breathe out a certain organic poison. Leaving the 
other two j^oints for the moment, we wish to call attention to 
certain facts affecting carbonic acid. 

First of all, it is necessary to distinguish between the effects of 
pure carbonic acid, and carbonic acid accompanied by those organic 
impurities which come from skin and lungs. It is true that pure 
carbonic acid has in itself, when inhaled in sufficient quantities, " a 
distinctly toxic narcotic effect" (1 Quain. p. 208) ; and it is stated 
(see Parkes p. 157, and Angus Smith), that when (in a pure state, 
apart from organic emanations) it amounted to 3 '84 per cent, of the 
whole air, it tended to produce disturbance and slowing of pulse 
with quickening of respiration — the quickening of respiration being 
more marked than the slowing of the pulse. When Dr. Angus 
Smith introduced this quantity of pure carbonic acid (3*84 per cent, 
of the whole air) into the lead chamber, his two friends suffered 
after a few minutes from headache ; and he himself was affected 
with feverish activity " of body and mind," his breathing being 
increased from 20 to 26 per minute (p. 142). But 3 per cent, or 
3-84 is a very large quantity. Even 1-lOth of one per cent, 
(or '1) is a large amount when compared with the normal quan- 
tity ('04 per 100) that is found in the air. This quantity (-1 
per cent.) of pure carbonic acid was found in the air of a well- 
ventilated soda water factory (windows wide open) in Manchester, 
which A. Smith visited (p. 409), and was believed to produce 
no bad effects. 

But quite different from pure carbonic acid is the carbonic acid 
which results from respiration and has very " evil companions " in 
the shape of organic impurities. Though '1 per cent, of pure 
carbonic acid may be nearly harmless in itself, De Chaumont and 
Parkes (Parkes, p. 177) believe that when once the carbonic acid of 
respiration amounts to about -08 (as against -0401 of the natural 
air), or about double the normal quantity, an odour (resulting from 
organic emanations) becomes perceptible ; and when it amounts to 
about '1 per cent, (or 1 in a thousaitd) that the odour becomes 
disagreeable. They would therefore impose -06 per cent, (or about 
1-1 7th of 1 per cent.) of carbonic acid as a limit, which, in their 
opinion, should not be exceeded in living rooms, when it results 
from respiration. How much this limit is constantly exceeded, may 
be seen by some figures of carbonic acid given by Dr. Angus Smith 
(p. 54) : Chancery Court (near ground), '20 per cent, (by vol. ; or 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 9 

l-5tli of 1 per cent, instead of the 1-1 7th allowed) ; different theatres 
from -10 up to '32 per cent, (or in the worst cases 3- 10th of 1 per cent, 
instead of 1-1 7th). It should be remembered, to avoid confusion, 
that in some cases the figures of those, who write about the carbonic 
acid present in crowded rooms, include the normal quantity of car- 
bonic acid in the air, while other figures exclude it. In the limit of 
•06 per cent, it is included, and it is easy to remember this limit by 
remembering that organic odours become perceptible (and therefore, 
as we must presume, distinctly hurtful) when the carbonic acid, 
resulting from respiration, about equals the normal quantity of car- 
bonic acid already in the air, and thus forms a double supply. The 
limit lies half-way between the natural quantity and the double 
supply, at which last point (*08 per cent, of total air) the organic 
emanations of skin and lungs become perceptible to the smell. 
This should never be tolerated. 

It is, perhaps, well to add that Dr. A. Smith (194) has proposed 
a very simple way of testing the amount of carbonic acid (and by 
inference the organic impurities) in the air. Carbonic acid brought 
into contact with lime water or baryta water, forms a precipitate. 
Where the air is of ordinary purity, a bottle of a certain size 
holding ^oz. of lime water and so many ounces of air will give a 
certain amount of precipitate. Now if a bottle, also holding 
^oz. of lime water but only half the quantity of air, is found to 
contain a precipitate of the same amount, it is plain that in this 
second case the air contains twice as much carbonic acid as in the 
first case (pure air). Thus, by bottles of different sizes, any person 
can test easily for himself the air of different rooms. Reduced 
to the simplest rule, there should be no appreciable precipitate, 
when the air of a room is shaken up in a lO^oz. bottle containing 
^oz. of clear lime water (202). If there is, the air is impure. At 
the same time we think that possibly a still simpler test might be 
found. Might not a special candle be made — for test purposes — 
by mixing some substance with the wax, which is unsuitable for 
combustion, and which would show by the decreasing light when 
there was a hurtful diminution of oxygen with a hurtful increase 
of carbonic acid. 

We must now leave this part of our subject, but in leaving it, it 
is right to say that a new discussion has lately arisen as regards the 
respective parts played in bad air by carbonic acid and by the 
organic poisons. For details, see Appendix A. 



10 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

A few words seem necessary here for those who have never 
followed the changes going on in the body. We know that we 
are constantly building up new tissue of different kinds, and that 
this building up makes it necessary that the old tissue should be got 
rid of. The larger part of our food measures this change which 
is always going on. If we take our daily food, liquid and solid, 
for twenty-four houi's, as weighing about 5 lb. 8 oz. (Hermann, 
p. 233) — a large proportion being water — we may consider 
about 51b. 3oz. of this quantity as taking part in the formation of 
fluids and tissues, the other 5oz. forming exhausted ferments, as 
they are called, which, passing along the alimentary canal, are 
eventually rejected. Now, all the suitable part of the food, after 
imdergoing various changes, which are necessary to prepare it for 
its passage from dead food into living tissue, finds its way into 
the blood ; and when by means of the larger blood-vessels, it 
reaches the very minute blood-vessels, called capillaries or hair 
vessels, it pours a part, of itself out through the permeable walls 
of these minute vessels, bathing and feeding the whole surround- 
ing tissue. Thus, as somebody has said, the whole of the new 
living body is in solution in this wonderful food-stream of the 
blood, which, by a very subtle mechanism of nerves, distributes 
its good gifts in proportion to the needs of each separate part. 
But the blood is not simply a food-stream, it is also a sewage 
stream, and it is as such that we are specially interested in it. 
Where no growth or storing of flesh material of any kind is 
taking place in the system, it is evident that such part of the 
daily food which is turned into tissue measm*es not only the 
daily construction that is taking place within us, but also the 
daily destruction or waste. In fact — if one may so speak of the 
particles of which he is composed — we are for ever living and 
dying within ourselves — making a new self, and getting rid of an 
old self; and just as the new living body is in solution in the 
blood, so also is the old dead body, that has done its work and 
has to be got rid of. Now, of this dead body such part, as 
does not escape through the kidneys, has to escape through lungs 
and through skin.* 

About this process of waste, that is, the getting rid of the old 
tissue which is being rejilaced by new tissue, but Utile is known. 

* We do not take notice here of certain other slight losses, such as loss 
of dead outer skin by friction, &c. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 11 

We know, whilst certain temporary forms of waste are found in 
muscle, such, for example, as kreatin (Gr. kreas, flesh) which, 
whether again made use of or not, has been supposed to be even- 
tually changed in some complex manner into urea in the liver, or 
an acid called lactic (Gr. gala, milk) which is also supposed to be 
decomposed in the liver into carbonic acid and water (M. Foster, 
p. 827), that all our dead tissue is — with certain slight but most 
important exceptions — got rid of safely at last in the three forms of 
urea, carbonic acid and water.* These are the final forms which 
the waste, that passes from the tissue into the blood, takes — the urea 
being separated from the blood and got rid of by the kidneys, the 
carbonic acid both by the skin and the lungs, and the water by 
all three channels of separation.! 

But we said that urea, carbonic acid, and water did not account 
for quite all the waste tissue ; and amongst the part not so 
accounted for are the very hurtful poisons which escape from lungs 
and skin. What are these poisons ? Have they a connection with, 
n relation to, the poisons which, as we know, exist at all times 
within the system on a large scale. Broken-down or waste tissue 
passes through many forms before it reaches the safe final forms 
of urea, carbonic acid and water, and there are reasons for conclud- 
ing that some of these forms are highly poisonous. We see this 
by what happens to a man when he is drowned. A drowned 
(asphyxiated) man is in reality a poisoned man. The waste which 
is going on everywhere and at every moment in his tissues is 
producing poisons of so deadly a character that when they cannot 
be oxidised by receiving oxygen from the blood (as happens under 
ordinary circumstances by means of the two gallons — nearly — of air 
which he breathes in a minute) death ensues in a very short space 
of time. In such a case, the poison produced all over the system 
has been no longer rendered harmless by oxygen, and goes as 
poison to the brain J Now, this poisoning does not appear to be 

* "We are not taking into account certain substances discharged from the 
skin in minute quantities, as chloride of sodium, phosphate of soda, oxide 
of iron, &c. ; or other substances got rid of by the kidneys. 

t ' ' The natural waste of the body appears in two simple forms of carbonic 
acid — the gaseous form having the chemical formula C0,0, while that, which 
is got rid of in solution, is urea, that is, C0,(NH2)2 in which the second atom 
of oxygen in the carbonic acid is replaced by a nitrogenous body termed 
amidogen," writes L. P. 

X It may affect the brain, directly through the blood, or indirectly, by 
poisoning the local nerve centres. 



12 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH, 

primarily or necessarily due to an excess of carbonic acid, which 
must accumulate in the blood when a man is drowned. As Pro- 
fessor Foster shows, even where the carbonic acid is got rid of, and 
no oxygen is available, the same result follows (600). Thus we have 
a pretty clear indication that the poisoning which results is the non- 
oxidisation of certain active poisons. Other indications point to 
the same conclusion. When a man faints from loss of blood, he 
probably faints because the diminished stream of blood does not 
carry a sufficient quantity of oxygen with it to neutralise the 
poisons which reach the brain.* It is also noticeable that this 
desire for oxygen is emphasised by the convulsions that take place 
in such cases as dro\\Tiing, — or when the inhalation of nitrpus 
oxide is continued without air (Quain, p. 42) ; or after such a loss 
of blood as proves fatal (Watson, vol. I., 66, 286). In these 
cases, oxygen being denied, the poisons (carried by the blood, and 
retaining all their virulence from being non-oxidised) act at first 
as a powerful stimulant to a part of the nervous centres, which, 
in their turn acting through the local nerves, throw one set of 
muscles after another (connected with the respiratory system) into 
action, in order to obtain the oxygen that is so sorely needed j 
ending at last in that general violent movement which is called 
convulsions. After a short time, when no oxygen responds to 
the muscular effort made to obtain it, the poisons overpower 
the nerve centres and death ensues. f 

Both fevers and violent exercise seem also to illustrate the same 
action. In fever, the tissue rapidly wastes, and great quantities of 
waste-poison are poured into the blood. These poisons in like 
fashion act on the nerve centres, and are the cause of the 
quickened respiration and circulation,^ which are necessary to get 

* One of the writers was informed by a friend in Africa, that he was 
present Avhen a man cut himself badly with a bill-hook, and was carried into a 
cabin. Each time the door was closed, the man fainted ; each time the door 
was thrown open, he came back to his senses, indicating pretty clearly that 
the supply of oxygen, which was unduly diminished by the loss of blood, was 
increased when the door was open, and was just sufficient to neutralise the 
effect of the waste-poisons and prevent unconsciousness. 

t It is interesting to remark here that this reaction of the nerve centres- 
under the effect of the poison, seems to be of that "protective character" 
which occurs so often, and to which Professor Foster more than once haa 
referred ; that is to say, that it produces a violent movement of the muscles in. 
the effort to obtain air, which can alone neutralize the mischief. 

+ The nerve centres, however, of heart and respiration are differently 
affected. In certain cases, the circulation is slowed, not quickened. This 
is the case. Professor Foster saj'S, in drowning, after a slight quickening has 



BAB AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 13 

the excess of poison oxidised ; and, therefore, when delirium or un- 
consciousness supervenes, we may say pretty confidently that the 
rapid circulation and the rapid breathing have not been sufficient 
to oxidise and render harmless the mass of poison which is being 
oarried to the brain.f So again, in pneumonia, the quickened 
breathing shows both the effort of Nature to make up for the loss 
of that part of the lung which is ineffective, and shows also the 
stimulus, which the increased waste-poison in the blood (increased, 
owing to diminished lung capacity, and therefore diminished 
oxygen) exerts upon the respiratory machinery.]; So again, when 
less blood is carried to the lungs, owing to the artery which leads 

taken place. May this be explained — whether by means of the increased 
difficulty of passage through the small arteries and capillaries by impure 
blood, or the stimulation of the nerve centres [which restrict the bore of the 
arteries and thus slow the circulation] by impure blood, or by other machinery 
— by the supposition that, where oxygen is denied, an increase in the rapidity 
of the circulation would carry the poison quicker to the brain, and therefore 
hasten the end ? It is plain that the quickening of the respiration may be 
safe in many cases where the quickening of the circulation would involve 
danger to the nervous centres, owing to the mass of poison in the blood. A 
sipfiilar eifect in a slight degree seems to occur in the case of vitiated 
air. It has been stated that in such air the circulation is slowed. 
Angus Smith's experiments on himself in the lead chamber seem to confirm 
the statement — the breathing being quickened, the pulse being a good deal 
disturbed, but tending to be weakened and slowed (211), especially when one 
person was alone in the chamber, and therefore, perhaps, less subject to 
■excitement. In fever, on the other hand, the circulation is, generally speak- 
ing, quickened ; in exercise, again, when oxygen is freely available, and is 
being pumped to every part of the system by the action of the muscles, the 
effect is the same as in fever ; both respiration and circulation are quickened 
in order to increase the supply of oxygen required to meet the large increase 
of waste — the quickened circulation probably not being due to carbonic acid, 
which, as is remarked by Professor Foster, is not found on analysis in excess 
in the blood. Perhaps it is well to add that there are three ways in which the 
circulation may be affected : by action of the nerve centres which regulate 
the heart ; action of the nerve centres which regulate the bore of the arteries, 
find thus affect the circulation by increasing or diminishing the resistance to 
the passage of the blood ; and changes in the condition of the muscle of the 
heart. In the case of those persons who habitually breathe impure air, and 
whose blood is in an impure state, it seems likely that the condition of the 
muscle of the heart is affected, as well as the nerve centres, by the normal 
impurity of the blood. Something could be learnt by very simple observations. 
Those who attend crowded concerts or meetings should notice at the time 
and also next day, the effect upon their pulse and rate of breathing. There 
is evidently not only stimulation of certain nerve centres, but also depression 
of nerve action resulting from these waste-poisons (see p. 26). 

t This indicates very clearly that the purest and freshest air should flow 
through the room of a person suffering from fever. It would be almost as 
necessary to him as to the person suffering from loss of blood. Such 
treatment is confirmed by experience, — see case of Austrian army, further on. 

X Unless in this case it be attributed in part at least to increased carbonic acid. 



14 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

from the heart to the lungs being partially blocked with a clot, the 
same effect is produced. We might also compare with these con- 
ditions of imperfectly oxidised waste the condition which arises after 
hard work, — to which a person is not accustomed — either in old age 
or in a feeble state of health. The tissue, not being in the firm 
condition of the tissue of a vigorous person accustomed to daily 
work, breaks down in undue quantities, whilst at the same time the 
circulatory and respirator}^ machineries being no longer at their 
best, the "unburnt" waste remains in the tissues, being insufficiently 
supplied with oxygen brought by the now enfeebled blood-stream. 
On the next day the over-worked man is poisoned by this unusual 
quantity of waste in the system, and feels discomfort in many parts 
of his body or limbs. So also the discomfort acutely felt by some 
persons during east winds probably arises from the poison, which 
ought to have been got rid of by the skin, but owing to the 
closing of the pores, has been thrown back into the system. It is 
different with the ordinary violent exercise taken by men in the 
vigour of life. In this case there are no after pains, because when 
men are young and healthy they are capable of oxidising success- 
fully large quantities of waste, which are got rid of at once, and do 
not remain in the system to cause trouble. The successful athlete 
is therefore, first, the good oxidiser (see M. Foster, p. 628),— 
the person who has good lung capacity and — what is more 
important — a powerful heart to drive the blood swiftly ; and, 
secondly, the person who trains well, whose tissue is healthy 
and firm and does not break down rapidly into waste — waste 
in his case not outstripping the powers of oxidation, and thus 
causing distress. On the other hand, the untrained man, who 
breaks down in the race with ever^' sjTnptom of distress, is the 
poisoned man — the man w^ho formed waste quicker than he 
could oxidise it.* It is hardly too much to say, that if we 

* In such a case, it may be asked, why are not the waste -poisons passing 
into the blood from the tissues safely got rid of in the form of carbonic acid 
and water by the time that the blood reaches the lungs ? It seems difficult to 
escape from the conclusion (see Foster, p. 603) that imperfectly oxidised waste 
products must, on occasion, pass the lungs without being got rid of. In the 
case of violent exercise, it would seem that the quickened heart and quickened 
breathing come from the action of waste-poisons, which, passing the 
lungs, reach the medulla (nerve centre at base of brain, regulating respira- 
tion) and stimulate the nerve centres ; and that in many cases there is not 
time, owing to the excessive quantity of waste in the blood, to reduce all the 
waste to the safe final products of water and carbonic acid. As regards 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 15 

cannot oxidise vigourously, we cannot, physically speaking, lead 
a successful life. 

Reviewing, then, what we have said, Ave seem to see three 
things : first, that so long as our working machinery remains 
good, and we are able to supply ourselves plentifully with oxy- 
gen, we can get rid of a large amount of daily waste in safe 
and harmless forms ; secondly, that when oxygen is withheld 
from us there are poisons in every part of our tissue of so deadly 
a character (either abnormally formed because oxygen is absent, 
or formed under ordinary circumstances but normally neutralised 
by the supplies of oxygen constantly carried to the tissues) as to 
take life in a few minutes ; thirdly, that even when all is well, 
and our system is functioning under healthy conditions, we are 
still always breathing out from ourselves, through lung and 
through skin, certain dangerous poisons, which poisons, when 
we are living in bad air, we perpetually reabsorb into our- 
selves, to our o\\^l great hurt. 

Nothing, however, that we have said, satisfactorily explains the 
presence of these poisons which escape from the lungs and the 
skin. It seems hard to explain why, when Nature so successfully 
breaks down the great mass of waste into harmless products, there 
should be this comparatively slight residue left over — reminding 
one of a» lawless fraction of people in an orderly society — which 
cannot be got rid of on the same easy terms. As we have seen, we 
have about 5lbs. 3ozs. of daily waste that is nearly all safely got rid 
of as urea, carbonic acid, and water, by means of kidneys, skin, 

the poisons we rebreaihe from the air, it seems rather a surprising thing, 
as they enter the circulation, that they should not be at once oxidised in 
the arterial blood, when we remember how they must be surrounded by 
the oxygen that the blood has just received from the air. But active as 
oxygen is — in its "nascent" state, just released from haemoglobin — in the 
tissues after leaving the blood, there are reasons for thinking that this 
activity does not exist in the blood itself (Foster, 580). Thus we are told 
that pyrogallic acid, which is an easily oxidisable substance, may pass 
through the blood without undergoing any change ; and fresh blood, as 
we are told, has little oxidising effect. This powerlessness of the oxygen 
in the blood is important as regards these rebreathed poisons. If they 
were oxidised in the blood, they would at once, we may presume, lose 
their hurtful character, but such an arrangement might interfere with the 
delicate adjustments by which more oxygen (by means of more blood) is 
distributed to those organs where there is special need of it at special 
moments. Were the blood liable to lose its oxygen on its way from the 
lungs to the organs, greater mischief of other kinds might result than 
from the existing failure to directly oxidise those poisons, which we breathe 
into the blood, when we take vitiated air into our lungs. 



J6 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

and lungs ; but accompanying this safe discharge we have a few 
grains of poison — a sort of surplus of evil — which in some way 
or other escapes the oxidation to which all the other mass of 
waste has been subject. What, then, is this poison ? How far 
is it the same, how far does it differ from, the normal poisons of 
the tissues, which as we see, in a few minutes destroy life when 
oxygen is withheld ? Where and how is it formed ? Are we to 
look upon it as a putrefactive poison formed at the surface of 
the lungs and the skin ; and if so, why should it be formed in 
this irregular fashion? Dr. Klein tells us (p. 241) that septic 
bacteria* {i.e., the authors of putrefactive change, not of disease) 
are to be found in those parts of the body into which air pene- 
trates, as the mouth, the air-passages, the whole alimentary tract. 
Are we then to look upon these expired poisons as derived from 
putrefactive decompositions taking place in the air passages, and 
therefore, either as matter left over after the bacteria of these 
tracts have taken from waste substances — escaped from the 
blood — such elements as they require ; or as matter excreted by 
these minute organisms in their own growth? At present, both 
within and without the body, the nature of these poisons 
is surrounded with mystery, and many are the interesting 
questions that remain to be solved about them. In whatever 
manner these expired poisons are formed, are they — when they 
have passed outside the body — the food of the bacteria which 
are found so plentifully in foul air ? f If so, are these ordinary 
bacteria (excluding the case of certain bacteria producing disease) 
friends rather than enemies ; do they render this expired poison 
itself less harmful ; or do they themselves produce an excretion 
which is of a poisonous character ; or should they be looked 
on as neutral, destroying one poison and producing another? 
So also we should like to ask, are the poisons themselves 
removed by simple currents of air, or are they oxidised in the 
air ; if so, are they oxidised only when ozone is present (see 
"Our Homes," p. 495) ; and if oxidised in the air, are thej^ 

* For reference to a different view, see De Bary on " Bacteria." 
t Bacteria (Gr. Bakterion, a staff) are the smallest living organisms known, 
and now included in the vegetable kingdom. They are fungus -like ; possess a 
very simple structure, are capable of free movement, and may multiply very 
rapidly. Some kinds play a part in putrefaction ; others in certain diseases. 
It has been calculated that not uncommonly we inhale 300,000 of these 
germs in the day. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 17 

oxidised also in the blood, after we have rebreathed them, when 
they are surrounded with oxygen, — the oxygen being in loose 
combination with htemo-globin ; or are they only oxidised — in 
common with other waste in the tissues — after they have passed 
from the blood into the tissues? 

Another interesting light is thrown upon the bad character of 
the waste-poisons, which are always present in the tissues, by the 
statement that they exhaust the power of muscle to contract. 
Muscle taken from a freshly killed animal, if fed with arterial 
blood, or blood supplied with oxygen, may retain for some time 
its power of contraction. But if venous blood (blood that 
has lost its oxygen and is charged with waste-poisons) be in- 
jected into it, the power of contraction is lost quicker than if 
no blood be supplied to it. In the same way the power of the 
muscle is soon exhausted if a solution containing substances, which 
can be extracted from muscle (such as kreatin, lactic acid, &c.), 
be injected into it (M. Foster, p. 150). These facts help us to 
see the local mischief which must often arise from these poisons, 
as well as their effects on the nerve centres. Many an ache and 
pain are probably due to the local action of these waste-poisons, 
whether they are the normal waste-poisons of the system, of which, 
under unhealthy conditions of life, we are not properly getting rid, 
or these special poisons of skin and lungs that we persist in re- 
breathing into the system. When it is said that " pain is the cry 
of a nerve for healthy food," it might often be said with equal 
truth that it is the cry of the nerve to be relieved from waste- 
poisons ; and a human body, the tissues of which are blocked 
with waste, may be fairly compared to a town, whose system of 
sewage from some cause or another has been arrested.* 

* Where Nature does not get fair-play, where, for example, the blood is viti- 
ated by our constantly rebreathing poisons that have been already once got rid 
of, other dangers must exist. In the delicate chemical translations which take 
place either when food is being changed into tissue, or worn-out tissue into 
harmless waste, it may happen that the process goes wrong, and an abnormal 
poison is formed. We have a great capacity for forming poisons and 
abnormal substances, both in illness and when health is slightly deranged. 
Thus, under certain circumstances, instead of urea, uric acid is formed ; 
thus in uraemia, or retention of urea in the system, various secondary 
compounds are formed which act on brain or spinal cord as narcotic 
poisons ; thus a highly contagious poison is formed in inflammation 
both of the conjunctiva and of the peritoneum, and in "other inflammatory 
and febrile diseases " (Beale, S. A., 343) : thus pus may be formed 
from an alteration in normal bioplasm and may assume the most poisonous 
character (94-5) ; thus, in acute yellow atrophy, where liver cells lose 

B 



18 BAD AIH AlfD BAD HEALTH. 

We now pass to other evidence affecting the poison that escapea 
from lungs and skin. We all know that a room is offensive when 
many people are crowded into it ; we know the unpleasantness 
of a bedroom before the air has freely entered it ; we know how 
disagreeable the breath and the clothes can be ; we know that 
animals die when submitted to air that has been breathed, even 
when the carbonic acid has been removed;* we know how necessary 

a part of their activity, a substance called leucin is manufactured to 
a considerable extent instead of urea (M. Foster, p. 755) ; thus gall- 
stones are formed instead of gall, and certain changes take place in the 
bile, by which some of its constituents cease to be dissolved in it (M. 
Foster, p. 431) ; and thus when the liver is diseased, various abnormal com- 
pounds appear in what passes from the kidneys (Brown, 194). Thus also in 
digestion we may manufacture an acid called butyric, which when absorbed 
into the blood is stated to act as a nerve poison (L. Brunton, 146) ; or an 
improper compound called hemi-albumose (L. Brunton, 37) ; thus Valerianic, 
Acetic, Formic, and other acids may be formed when digestion is much 
deranged (Beale, S. A., 151) ; or to take an example of common experience, 
in cases of indigestion, we may fail in manufacturing a true gastric juice, 
which in its proper state should be acid, but may have an opposite (alkaline) 
character (L. Brunton, 22), thus " losing its digestive power." Thus, again, 
there are poisons, to which we shall refer in a later paper, of a very inter- 
esting character, which are formed in the system both during life and after 
death. [It is curious to notice in connection with these ptomaines (poisons 
formed after death) that a dispute arose during an important Italian trial as to 
whether a poison detected in a body was strychnine, or a naturally formed 
ptomaine. We give in the second part of this paper a sketch of Dr. A. Brown's 
and Sir "W. Aitken's account of these ptomaines.] Thus, too, Blyth 
(" Poisons," pp. 468-470) describes cases in which narcotic poisons have- 
been formed by synthesis of substances in the tissues or in the blood. So 
also we might refer to the speculation of Dr. Carpenter — though, 
if modern views are correct in assigning a bacterial origin to cancer, 
the matter should be stated in rather different terms — that a cancer 
is an excretory organ, formed to get rid of poisons in the system, illus- 
trating once more " the protective nature" even of that which finally brings 
pain and death ; and to the case of certain pathogenic (disease-producing) 
microbes, which, as seems likely, are not able to affect healthy living 
tissues, but only unhealthy tissues — the unhealthiness implying alteration of the 
tissue. Most of these cases are, doubtless, of an extreme kind ; they imply 
the abnormal formation of poisons to a serious extent, sufiicient to constitute 
illness ; but there are many less serious foripations of abnormal poisons, 
which, though not sufficient to produce illness, yet cause much discomfort, 
and which are the consequence of the vitiated state of the blood, — often 
and often arising, as we believe, from the evil habit of breathing impure air. 

* If we remember rightly, both Parkes and D. Galton ("Our Homes") 
refer to these experiments — a mouse dying in forty-five minutes when sub- 
mitted to air treated in this manner. Dr. Richardson also refers in one of hia 
works to experiments, which were conducted by himself, and which are more 
fully described in a report to the British Association. Dr. Richardson had 
formerly a theory of " devitalised oxygen," but we suppose he would probably 
consider now that it was a truer statement to say that this special poison had 
not been removed from the air which the creatures breathed. Experiments of 
the same kind have also been made on rabbits in Paris. One of our number 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 19 

is the continuous flood of pure air in hospitals — we have heard it 
stated that a much freer admission of air may render unneces- 
sary the antiseptic treatment of wounds ; we know how by treating^ 

(A. H.) adds the following remarks: "Though I think it would be quite 
misleading to speak of the experiments upon the mouse, and the experiments 
conducted by Dr. Richardson as in any sense cruel, yet, expressing my owa 
personal opinion, I remain opposed to all such experiments. Whilst I admit 
the neat and convenient evidence often supplied by them, and the ready test 
that they seem to offer in the case of new hypotheses, and also admit that 
difficulties of method would at first exist, were they renounced, yet I venture 
to think, speaking generally, that the wealth of material — consisting of the 
facts of health and all the delicate gradations between ill -health and disease 
— which exists on all sides of us for pushing forward knowledge, is so great, 
that however convenient these experiments may be, they are not really 
necessary and might be replaced. After all, a method of verification is much 
easier to replace than a method of discovery ; and, indeed, it seems probable that 
a keener perceptive sense in tracing out the meaning of the things of common 
life, which are of such vital importance, a closer alliance between lay obser- 
vation [now unguided and wasted] and scientific enquirj-, and a more careful 
examination into the causes of that modem ill- health, which does not amount 
to disease, but which is so instructive from a pathological point of view, would 
be developed, as investigators consented to renounce this particular method. 
In writing this, however, I admit grave difficulties as regards new methods, 
and am simply governed by the moral side of the question. Whether, there- 
fore, for the moment we gain or lose in knowledge, I think we — who dis- 
approve — ought to seek out other methods. No legal compulsion, however, 
of any kind should be employed. All of us must be left free to follow our 
own conscience and judgment in the matter ; and those of us who disapprove 
of such experiments should recognise that upon us is placed the burden of 
putting our shoulders to the wheel and showing that we can produce equally 
good practical results by employing other methods. Doubtless a great deal 
has been learnt through inoculations of animals, — uncertain as some of them 
are ; but we have yet to see whether other reactions from the bacterial virus 
could not take their place. I should like to see physiological schools founded 
— especially at the Universities — for the purpose of developing methods 
differing from the present method. Why are we, who differ amongst our- 
selves, always to be in servitude to one uniform system and one uniform 
school of teaching ? Let the schools founded on experiment pursue their 
own way on their own responsibility ; and let others amongst us oppose 
other schools to them. Progress consists in these practical oppositions more 
than in denunciations of each other, — though 1 admit that we might find 
life a little dull, if the denunciations on both sides came entirely to an end ; 
and, perhaps, a certain amount is required for all causes. Personally I find 
myself indulging in a fair amount. 

*' A few last words. The physiologists have the right to claim freedom of 
judgment and freedom of action in the matter, and they must have it. On 
the other hand, not one penny of State money or one fraction of State 
privilege should be conceded to them. It must be a perfectly fair field 
between us. There must be no State power of any kind placed in the hands 
of the medical profession. Like other bodies, they may adjust the conditions 
of their own service, or the conditions of entrance into their body, to their 
own liking, but they must have no power of interfering with or repressing 
any kind of medical practice or teaching outside their own ranks. We are 
finishing up with our established churches ; and we will build no secular 
imitations upon their ruins. Professor Horsley will recognise the justice of 



20 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

men in the open air and in tents recoveries have been made quicker 
and better than in hospital ; and how in the case of the Austrian 
army "the most severe maladies ran their course much more mildly" 
in the free air, while the recovery was quicker and more perfect 
(Ransome, " Health Lectures," 1875-78, p. 151). So during the 
French evacuation of Mexico it was discovered with much surprise 
that the wounded, having to be transported in open conveyances 
during several weeks, did much better than if treated in hospital 
(Gautier, 213) ; so also in the Crimean War the mortality in French 
hospitals in Varna was 60 per cent, in buildings, in tents 26-5 per 
cent. (213); so also the tent hospitals during the siege of Paris, 
notwithstanding the winter season and scarcity of fuel, gave the 
only good results ; and in consequence of these facts, both Germans 
and Americans have established, as a regular thing, tent hospitals, 
placed in gardens, as soon as the winter is over ; so " erysipelas 
is somewhat frequent in fixed hospitals, but is exceedingly rare 
in tents and huts " (Russell, 171) ; and " overcrowding in 
hospitals and want of ventilation" are amongst its causes (174); 
«o hospital gangrene " . .is prevented by perfectly free venti- 
lation ... It not only does not occur in tents, but patients 
removed to tents at once commence to improve" (172) ; so Dr. 
€ollie recommends in acute infectious diseases " the windows 
being open, as a rule, by night as well as by day," — the patient, 
however, not to be exposed to draughts ; so also the loss by 
puerpural fever has been largely reduced in maternity hospitals 
by purifying the atmosphere and improved hygienic surroundings 
(Russell, 246). So also Dr. Parkes says (p. 181) in cases of blood 
poisoning, the best treatment is complete exposure to open air ; 
so also in typhus, [in a less degree in enteric fever] and in small- 
pox and plague. " This complete exposure," he adds, " of patients 

this claim. He has taunted those who disapprove of experiments upon 
animals with availing themselves of knowledge gained by these experiments. 
He will at once see that if we owe him freedom to act upon his own judg- 
ment, he equally owes us freedom to organise such medical schools, and to 
take such medical help as we like, orthodox or unorthodox. Lastly, some of 
lis esteem and like the profession too much to wish to quarrel with it. If the 
State give it any kind of monopoly or privilege, then it forces upon both 
flides perpetual bitter war ; for some of us will never acquiesce in any form 
•of State privilege and power. Let the State stand wholly aside. In that 
way alone shall we be able to remove artificial and unnecessarj^ obstacles to 
A continual growth of trust and liking between the public and the medical 
profession, towards whom, even if we must at times quarrel with them, we 
<»nnot but have warm feeUngs of gratitude." 



BAD AIR ANT) BAD HEALTH 21 

to air is the most important mode of treatment, before even 
diet and medicines."* So "all the common highly infectious 
diseases in England, except measles, have a high rate of prevalence 
in January," ' indicating the fatal effect of shut-up rooms and 
want of ventilation ; so " well ventilated depots of typhus 
patients are not dangerous even to the attendants " (Russell, 342, 
quoting Sir J. McCormack) ; so, as regards diphtheria, " dirty, 
unventilated buildings and bad nourishment" (Russell, 135) in- 
crease the liability to it ; so want of ventilation and crowding 
favour that terrible disease, the plague (Russell, 237) ; so on the 
other hand light and air are safeguards against cholera (76) ; 
so also even in natural positions, where " hills or jungle " impede 
ventilation, malaria is favoured (224) ; and so in Liverpool " the 
open courts remained on the whole healthy, and this even in 
districts smitten with fever" (Thome Thorne, 18). In the same 
way, the deaths of the Black Hole of Calcutta add their evidence, 
though it is evidence of an extreme kind. Whilst out of the 
146 persons shut up, 123 died (Carpenter, p. 357), of the re- 
maining number many afterwards died of putrid fever — that is, 
were poisoned, owing to an insufficiency of oxygen to neutralize 
the poisons breathed out on all sides of them, and rebreathed by 
themselves. So also a contagious disease similar to typhus has 
been developed amongst animals crowded on ship board (Aitken, 
30) ; so at Portsmouth when the carbonic acid in the cells did not 
exceed -7 per 1000 the convicts " were robust and healthy," when 
it rose to 10 per 1000, then they " suffered from anaemia, lung, and 
other diseases " (Russell, 96) ; so Collie writes (128) " disease of 
some sort almost invariably attends large aggregations of indi- 
viduals "; so shearing-shed fever, which is very like influenza, 
arises when a large number of men and sheep are crowded in the 
shearing-sheds in Australia in hot, dry weather (Russell, 472) ; so 
*' Dr. Madden has noted that trismus nascentium and spasmodic 
croup are very largely reduced by ventilation or removal to country 

* ' * When our Health Commissioners were sent out to the Crimea to examine 
the heavy mortality among soldiers in the hospitals, their first act was to use 
their sticks to break some hundreds of glass panes in the windows, so as to 
admit air freely. After that the wounded recovered rapidly," writes L. P. In 
the same way Dr. Clifford Allbutt reduced the mortality in a heavy epidemic 
of typhus fever in Leeds by fastening the windows in the fever hospital with 
screws, so that they could not be shut. He remarks that in Ireland those 
attacked with tj^hus, who were put out to die under hedges, would often 
recover. 



22 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH^ 

air" (Russell, 376). So again Mr. Russell writes: "The decline 
of robustness is plainly visible in persons living in bad air "; so 
*' during the prevalence of influenza and colds the chances of escape 
are almost directly as the air admitted " ... If statistics were 
procurable, it would be found that the daily travellers by train in 
winter suffer from colds and lung troubles in much larger propor- 
tion than the engine drivers and guards who get more of the outside 
air. All statistics of the influenza epidemic prove that those living 
in the stuffiest conditions were most attacked " (Russell, 478) ; 
so the death-rate increases as the density of people increases per 
acre (399), and again as the density increases per room (418) ; and 
so (Gautier 220) soldiers and sailors, confined in too small 
spaces, may suffer terribly — " then appear fevers of the typhus 
type, affections of the skin, such as herpes, zona, purpura, scurvy, 
and endemic typhus"; so bad air (and sedentary life) to some 
persons (as east winds to others, (Beale, S. A., 211) by checking 
skin action and so poisoning the system) may be a cause of a lesser 
trouble, — constipation (Beale, S. A., 175), but a trouble which 
brings with it after a time much serious mischief, — such mischief 
itself being specially likely to result where the nervous centres are 
depressed by the breathing of impure air, and where in consequence 
the great purifying organs are doing their work less effectually ; so 
" the spread of diphtheria is favoured by schools, especially through 
the closeness of the breathing organs to each other" (Russell, 
143) ; so typhus is a disease of bad air, crowded towns, and 
crowded rooms, and it begins in the most crowded part of 
a town. . . . Typhus may be greatly limited by securing 
abundance of fresh air" (Russell, 338); so typhus and houses 
built back to back, where ventilation is much impeded, are related 
to each other (Thorne Thorne, 21) ; so " offensive and evil-smelling 
drains are much less likely to produce typhoid, than covered un- 
ventilated drains which have access to the interior of the house. 
In the free atmosphere typhoid is rarely caught, even at an open 
cesspool " (Russell, 294) ; and so also one of the new diseases 
of the century, cerebro - spinal - meningitis (80), is believed to 
be favoured by overcrowding. A simpler piece of evidence, 
however, is presented to us daily by our own eyes. Who is not 
struck by the pasty anaemic look of our city children and of the 
larger number of those who follow sedentary occupations, as con- 
trasted with the looks of those who live in the countrv, and are 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 23 

much in the open air ? What is that pasty anaemic look ? It results 
from the absence of red corpuscles in the blood, and appears to 
indicate that where oxygen is deficient in the blood* the red cor- 
puscles are not produced in their proper quantity. So also the 
effects of living in rooms in which sewer gas has penetrated 
illustrate in their own stronger degree the effects of living in un- 
ventilated rooms. The one is the lesser form, the other the more 
•serious form of the same evil. In both, bacteria thrive and multiply, 
and in both, meat and milk rapidly taint.f Both atmospheres are 
full of putrid organic matter, and the symptoms of headache and 
feverishness are common to both, though, of course, the case of sewer 
gas in a house is the more serious form. J Again, we all know the 
wonderfully restoring effect that hill air with its ozone has upon 
us after town life ; showing how the poison has depressed all our 
functions, and how the pure air restores their energy. We see 
the same effect in the lives of workpeople. Sir D. Galton, like 
many others, tells us of better work done, more energy, more 
appetite, when air is introduced into unhealthy workrooms. Dr. 
Parkes tells the same story. Dr. A. Ransome, speaking in 1875, 
quotes the case of the Guards, picked men, highly cared for, yet 
who died quite as fast as the civil population. Why? he asks. 
Mainly from defective ventilation of the barracks ("Health Lec- 

* But why is oxygen deficient in these cases ? Is it, once more, because so 
much organic poison is breathed in with the air of the shut-up rooms, that the 
functions are depressed and imperfectly performed ; that, for example, the act 
of respiration, though at first stimulated, is gradually impaired';' Or does 
the poison — unoxidised in the blood — directly affect the formation of the red 
corpuscles ? 

f The number of microbes is much greater in town than country (Russell, 
p. 405, following Miguel) ; at Montsouris the number of microbes per cubic 
metre of air was 75, in the Rue de Rivoli, 750 ; in rooms there were eight 
times as many microbes as in the open air, and in hospitals twelve times ; M. 
Miguel also found, according to Russell, 3,000 germs in some Paris streets per 
cubic metre, 45,000 in an old house, and 90,000 in one hospital in winter 
(440); whilst in a crowded railway carriage 3,120 microbes are said to have 
fallen per square foot of surface per minute (411). This extraordinary 
increase reqiiires verification ; but railway travellers will do well to observe 
that this enormous quantity was, as it is stated, the result of a full carriage 
and closed windows. When one window was open and there were but four 
persons in the carriage the number was only 395. There can be no doubt we 
think that far more lives are lost in railway travelling by closed windows 
than by railway accidents. 

X Sewer gas in a shut up house may be much worse than sewer gas in a 
eewer. It has been shown recently, by Camelley, that the air in a well- 
ventilated sewer is, so far as organic matter and micro-organisms are con- 
eemed, purer than the air in a small crowded and badly -ventilated room. 



24 BAD AIR AST) BAD HEALTH. 

tures," 1875 — 78, p. 150).*' Again, we find disease attacking 
country districts for the first time, where houses had been im- 
proved, and the ventilation, which used to take place through 
porous walls and less well-fitting windows, had been done away 
with.f So also it is stated in one of the Manchester Health 

* * * Sir Lyon Playfair, one of the Commissioners for inquiring into the state 
of barracks passed a couple of nights with the soldiers in their crowded 
sleeping-rooms, and found the air saturated with organic effluvia which dis- 
coloured permanganate of potash. The mortality among soldiers is now 
greatly reduced by the better ventilation enforced by the Commission," 
writes L. P. 

f A case of this kind is reported to ns by Mr. Alexander Campbell, of 
Auchindarroch, Lochgilphead ; and we believe that the same thing was 
observed in a Westmoreland district. In an interesting letter Mr. Campbell 
writes : ' ' Some years back I was asked by a medical officer of large experience 
in the Highlands regarding a phenomenon which had puzzled him. He had 
exerted himself much and with great success, to have improved cottages built, 
but in proportion as the cottages grew better did the health of the people grow 
worse. I gave him my opinion that in the old, uncomfortable-looking cottages, 
built maybe of dry stone, and open to the roof, the people were kept healthy 
in spite of themselves by the wind blowing through them, whilst the new 
cottages, tightly built, and with weU-fitting doors and windows, excluded the 
air, and the windows being seldom or never opened, the inhabitants were 
poisoned. He said he fully agreed in this, and would ask for no more new 
cottages until the people had learned how to live in them. I have found a 
considerable amount of ill- health amongst the paupers in the Island of Tiree, 
which, from its situation, exposed as it is to the free action of breezes from the 
Atlantic, should be one of the healthiest islands of the Hebrides. I attribute 
this to the mode in which the houses are built, with two walls two or three 
feet apart, the interval being closely packed with sand. The air is thu* 
hermetically excluded, and unless the windows are made to open, and are 
freely opened, the inhabitants are constantly, when within their dwellings, 
breathing vitiated air.' ' In the same manner the natives of Labrador, living 
in imperfectly covered tents and subject to much hardship, are free from 
consumption ; when they come down the St. Lawrence, and live in well-built 
houses, they take the disease readily (Ransome, 51) ; thus also, the Bedouins who 
*' exchange their tents for stone -built houses suffer from consumption" (see 
41) ; thus in Algeria the nomad Arab is free from consumption, whilst 
*' amongst the captives many die from the disease "; and thus Cornish miners, 
owing to the impure air of the deeper mines, have three times as much con- 
sumption as other Cornish men (Russell, 400). It is also worth while quoting, 
as regards the effects of buildings, which exclude the air, from a review of 
Major Fisher's book (the book itself we have not read) in Spectator, May 2, 1891, 
** Through the Stable and Saddle Room" — "Everybody knows something of 
the importance of ventilation, both for man and horse ; but it is not so widely 
known as it ought to be, that while horses seldom or never take cold, through 
being exposed to cold, they are often made ill by being too warm. [It is not 
the warmth ; it is the impure air.] It is the inside, not the outside, air 
that gives them coughs, sore-throats, congestion of the lungs, and sundry 
other ills to which horseflesh is heir. For this reason, old ramshackle stables, 
full of cracks and crevices, are healthier than brand-new buildings with tight 
doors and windows, and impervious roofs. Our author, who never genera- 
lises rashly, and supports his theories with copious instances, mentions one 
or two curious ' cases in point.' Remounts for cavalry regiments, which are 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 25 

Lectures that in the old crowded lodging-houses people sleeping 
on the floor would escape fever, whilst those sleeping on the bed- 
steads would be struck by it. The explanation is that those on 
the floor got ventilation from the door and fireplace. The colder 
and purer air, being heavier than the heated impure air, followed 
the line of the floor and thus protected those sleeping on it. 

Animals furnish the same evidence. Cows and horses both 
suffer grievously from want of ventilation in their stables ; and 
cattle, though they require wannth for fattening, still put on flesh 
better in a colder but well-ventilated place than in a warmer 
place which is unventilated (Parkes, p. 180). So also Parkes tells 
us about the French cavalry. Before 1836 the mortality among 
the horses varied from 180 to 197 per 1000 per annum. With 
the enlargement of the stables and increased quantity of air, the 
loss was reduced to 68 per 1000, and finally to 28^ per 1000, and 
of officers' horses to 20 (130). 

Then we have the evidence of the ordinary tests for ascertaining 
the purity of the air. Air fouled by respiration discolours perman- 
ganate of potash and robs it of a portion of its oxygen ; the amount 
of organic matter is then measured by the number of volumes of 
oxygen required to restore the lost oxygen to the permanganate and 
bring it back to its former condition. Another test is the presence 
of bacteria, which are found in large numbers in foul air, increasing 
out of proportion to the moulds (fungi) found in the air, which 
appear to be less favoured by the presence of impurities than 
the bacteria. The significant fact is their number in badly 
ventilated places, which seems to show that they prosper just 
because they have discovered their proper food — the organic 
poison poured out into the air from our lungs and skin. On 

mostly of Irish extraction, have often to travel in severe weather part of the 
way in cattle-trucks, with no other protection from the cold than their own 
coats. Nevertheless, the remounts nearly always arrive at their destination 
in perfect health ; yet they are no sooner placed in stables, however well ven- 
tilated, [so very few stables are ' well-ventilated ' and well-trapped, as regards 
drains, that we feel pretty sure that an error in observation has crept in here], 
than they begin to suffer from coughs and colds, which generally end in 
strangles. During the autumn man^iuvres of 1875, Major Fisher's regiment 
was encamped near Aldershot, and though it rained almost incessantly, and 
the horses were picketed in the open, without so much as a blanket to cover 
them, colds and coughs were unheard of, and the favourite charger of one of 
his brother officers, which at the time she left the barrack-stable suffered 
from a severe cold, was made whole by a few days' exposure to the elemental 
strife." The book should contain some valuable facts. 



86 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

this point, Dr. A. Ransome makes an interesting speculation. 
Impressed with the belief that consumption is communicable in 
foul air, and non-communicable in good air, he believes that the 
tubercle-bacillus (one form of disease-bacteria) which is believed 
to convey the disease, becomes more virulent in foul air than in 
pure air, and is thus better able to make a lodgment in the human 
system. Such speculation however should not make us lose sight 
of the cardinal fact, that, as the result of living in bad air, there is 
a change of tissue, which is the direct preparation for disease.* 

* This speculation of Dr. Ransome leads us to consider the preparation for 
disease. Just as the malignancy of the bacillus would be increased by a vitiated 
atmosphere, so also it would be increased by vitiated blood, or deteriorated tissues. 
Dr. Klein (pp. 238-248) believes that in the interior of healthy human tissue 
no bacteria, which cause putrefaction, are found. They are found abundantly 
in those parts of the system to which air penetrates, as, for instance, in the 
mouth, or in the alimentary canal ; and from the alimentary canal they pass 
easily, as the food itself does, into the diminutive blood-vessels or the diminu- 
tive lymphatics (a system of vessels employed in manufacturing the blood) 
that line the walls of this canal. But if the blood is in healthy order they 
seem to perish, dying for want of food. Dr. Klein goes on to state, that if 
at some point they are carried to tissue that is in an unhealthy condition, they 
may obtain a footing there and begin to multiply. He does not actually state, 
as we understand, that the unhealthy condition of the blood keeps them alive, 
but it would seem to be implied ; for it m'ust be probable that the unhealthy 
state of the blood — for example, blood charged with poisons, which having 
once escaped from the skin and lungs, have been re-breathed into the system — 
would have the same favouring effect in their case as the unhealthy tissue. 
Both are likely to present them with the food they require. If this is so, 
then just as bacteria that cause dlsea-se are favoured by the external poisons 
they find in vitiated air, so also they would be internally favoured by the 
unhealthy state either of the blood or the bronchial and lung tissues of those 
persons who habitually breathe the poisons of shut-up rooms. Thus, these 
organic poisons, both within and without a man, would tend to make him a 
prey to those illnesses in which the success of the germ depended upon its 
proper food being supplied to it ; and it would seem probable that by constant 
attention to the purity of the air which we breathe, we might do much towards 
securing individual exemption from the danger of infectious diseases. It 
is worth quoting Professor Nussbaum as regards cholera (see an interesting 
article by Mrs. Priestley, Nineteenth Century, May, 1891, p. 825) : " It is known 
with certainty that the cholera bacillus is. dangerous only to those persons 
whose stomach is not in a healthy state, and jeopardises life only when it 
passes into the intestines. A health)' stomach will digest the bacillus, and 
therefore it does not reach the intestines in a living state." It is, perhaps, 
right to refer also to a much-quoted theor}- that in the blood the white 
cells (leucocytes) act as protective cells (phagocytes), whose ofiice is to 
overpower invading bacteria of a dangerous character ; and, according to 
Metschnekofi: (" Ann. de I'lnstitut Pasteur ") these can, in case of need, migrate 
to the point which is invaded by parasites, even leaving the blood to do so. 
On this point — the defence given by healthy blood and healthy tissues against 
infectious diseases — we have written more fully in the second part of this 
paper ; and here it is sufficient to say tliat the growth of any disease-bacillus 
in the human system must be looked upon in the light of an agricultural 



BA,D AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 27 

It should be noticed that exercise, as well as pure air, helps us 
in our constant struggle against the poisons that we either manu- 
facture or store within ourselves. It does this by driving the 
blood charged with oxygen, by means of the pressure of the muscles 
called into play, more thoroughly through every part of the tissue ; 
and thus it would help to quicken the breaking down of dead tissue 
into its safe and final waste-products (water, carbonic acid, and 
urea), and shorten the period during which the dead tissue was 
passing through the various dangerous forms which it temporarily 
assumes. From this fact we may infer that the man of sedentary 
life, above all others, requires pure air. The stimulus of moving 
-air, says Gautier (220), is wanted to whip the skin, and excite the 
lungs to their proper action. Such action, and the action of light, 
are necessary for the formation of healthy blood. 

In truth, pure air and exercise are equal forces acting in the same 
direction. They both get rid of waste, and with it of the poisons 
in the system which are depressing various organs. We need not 
therefore be surprised when we are told by Sir D. Galton, that after 
barracks were better ventilated the rations of the men had to be 
increased ; or by " the pathetic story " of certain seamstresses whose 
workroom was ventilated, and who then begged that the old state of 

operation. The bacillus, like any other form of vegetation, requires to 
be supplied with its proper food, if it is to grow rapidly and vigorously ; and 
there is much reason for believing that it does not find this proper food, so 
long as the blood and tissues are healthy. As in the case of all other plants, 
it must have its prepared seed-bed ; and it is this seed-bed which we prepare 
when we breathe impure air, or live under any other unhealthy conditions 
likely to favour the accumulation of improper materials in the tissues or the 
blood. We should perhaps add that the quantity of germs which enter the 
bloodstream in breathing impure air has also to be considered. The dead 
germs probably form excellent manure for the fatal germ which at last one day 
survives within us and finds itself able to grow. In this manuring of our- 
selves — and there are many ways of doing it — in preparation for the germ, 
which thus at last is enabled to grow, lies the secret of the infectious diseases, 
both of men and animals. Eventually we maj' get rid of these diseases, not 
by barricading out the germ, but by living under such healthy conditions 
that there is no seed-bed within us for the bacillus when we breathe it into 
the blood. We have written fully on this point in the second article, and 
have tried to show that these infectious diseases — like other forms of evil — 
have also a useful side, and that any attempts to suppress them violently 
— any mere system of "stamping out" — will produce greater evils than the 
diseases themselves. They are to be strenuously fought, and perhaps they 
may be finally banished from human existence, but only in one way — 
by teaching and helping men to conduct their daily life under m'ore 
healthy conditions. They must be starved out, not stamped out. Higher 
levels of general health offer the only security against them. The same 
truth applies equally to animals and animal diseases. 



28 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

things might be restored, as their appetites had increased beyond 
their earnings. Sir D. Galton gives another experience, which illus- 
trates the depressive effect of these poisons upon the functions of 
life. A New York medical man — some of us may think, rather 
cruelly — shut up some flies without food, some in foul air, others in 
pure air, — the pure air being constantly changed. To his surprise,, 
the flies in the pure air died first, — these dying from simple starva« 
tion ; whilst the flies in the foul air died from poison, and with the 
tissue of their bodies unexhausted, indicating that the functions of 
life were caiTied on to the last where oxygen was available, but had 
been slowed and depressed by the presence of the poison, — so that 
life was actually maintained longer in the foul air than in the pure 
air. To take one more example. Parkes tells us that it was found 
in the case of miners that they required 6000 cubic feet space per 
man per hour (this included the air necessary for horses and lights), 
to be able to work at their best. When this quantity was reduced to 
one-third or one-half, there was a great reduction in their working 
energy. In other words, the poison within their system, being 
imperfectly oxidised, impaired their faculties.* 

We could wish that it were possible to write the whole of the 
noble story of oxygen from a physiological point of view. It is a 
manifold service that it performs for us. It not only, as we have seen, 
neutralises the deadly poisons resulting from waste, but it provides 
heat, and is necessary for the production of the labour-energy 
stored in our muscles. All through animal life the consumption 
of oxygeii, serving this double purpose, is the measure of activity. 
Just as reptiles and cold-blooded creatures consume small amounts 
of oxygen and develop little activity, so birds and insects consume 
immense quantities of oxygen and exhibit immense activity. 
Each animal has, as Professor Foster believes (p. 812), its owa. 

* We may also take the case of races living in hot and cold climates. In 
hot climates we breathe a smaller quantity of oxygen (owing to the expansion 
of gases) than in cold climates. Thus, taking two climates, one of 32° F. and 
the other of 80*^ F., we should inhale about 2164 grains of oxygen per hour in 
the one climate (the cold), and only 1971 in the other climate (the warm), or a 
difference of about 10 per cent. (Galton, " Our Homes," p. 498). This might 
in part account for the difference of energy that exists in the races of hot and 
cold climates, just as our own energy, as Galton remarks, varies considerably on 
hot days and keen frosty days, though on the other hand some allowance must 
be made for the more open-air life that is led in warm climates. The bearing 
of these facts upon crowded rooms should be perceived. As the room gets 
hotter, not only are we breathing more poison, but also less oxygen, which is 
the only remedy for the poison. We are therefore doubling the causes of evil. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 29 

peculiar quantity, its co-efficient, so to speak, of oxygen, which 
it consumes — an amount which, judging from the few instances 
he gives, seems to vary with intelligence ; thus the dog con- 
■sumes more than the rabbit per lb. of its weight, and a man 
more than the dog. In the same way, a waking man consumes 
more oxygen than a sleeping man, a man at work than a 
sedentary man, a young man than an old man, a young child 
(relatively) more than the young man. The restless activity of 
children marks both their great consumption of oxygen and the 
pressing need that exists in their case that they should be allowed 
to possess it abundantly by breathing pure air. Rapid and 
extensive waste is going on in every child's body. Tissue of 
every kind, including bone, is being constantly broken down in 
•order that it may be built up anew on a larger scale, and it is 
therefore the greatest cruelty in their case not to provide them 
in fullest measure ^ with the purest air. Unhappily, very little 
thought is given to this matter; and with quite young children 
— whose need is the greatest of all — our nurseries are only 
too often mere slaughter-houses. It is noticeable, that out of 
every four deaths of infants, as it is stated,* one takes place from 
lung collapse, — a condition that often follows bronchial inflam- 
mation (see Symes Thompson, "Lungs" ; Quain, p. 861), and thus 
indicates the ordinary source of mischief. Dr. Symes Thompson 
significantly says: "AH causes that interfere with respiratory 
efficiency favour the occurrence of the condition named." 

It is now right for us to look at the subject of these waste- 
poisons in special reference to the skin. Without referring here 

* So it has been stated. At the same time it is right to remember that lung 
collapse follows many different kinds of illness. The villainous state of our 
nurseries, however, is shown by the statement from the Kegistrar- General's 
Report for 1889, that there were in that year 71,056 deaths of male infants 
(i.e., not over twelve months) in England, and out of this numher, 13,805 
(roughly speaking, nearly 1 in 5) died from diseases connected with the 
respiratory system. It is perhaps well to repeat here that bad air lessens the 
supply of oxygen for the human body in three ways (1) It slightly lessens the 
proportion of oxygen in the air of the room and increases the carbonic acid ; 
(2) the poisons which are re-breathed in bad air must be oxidised in the blood 
or in the tissues, and therefore must take some of the oxygen required for 
other purposes ; (3) owing to the depressing effect of the poison, some of the 
functions of life are less vigorously performed, and therefore more waste 
would accumulate in the system. Add heat, and the oxygen is again 
diminished, owing to the expansion of gases. On the Continent the unventi- 
lated nursery seems to slaughter children in even more wholesale fashion than 
with us. If we remember rightly, the Times correspondent reported that 37 
children [under the year] per 100 died at Kiel from taTbeTculosia. . 



30 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

to the different calculations made on this subject, it is enough 
to say that much less carbonic acid escapes from the skin than 
from the lungs; more water (if we are to follow Prof. Foster — 
who differs from other authorities, who again differ amongst them- 
selves — we may say roughly, 1 -5 lb. of water from lungs, and 2*5 lbs. 
from skin per day), and a larger amount of solid matter. The 
solid matter (from the skin) is put at 1 or 2 p. c. of the whole 2* 5 
lbs. and two-thirds of this 1 or 2 p. c. is organic matter contain- 
ing the poisons in question.* We can see the importance of the 
skin, as an organ of excretion, in various ways. In the first 
place, the enormous number of sweat glands under the skin, 
supposed by Krause (Baker's Kirke, p. 427) to be between 2 and 
3 millions in number — -in the parts where they are least abundant 
they are over 400 to the square inch — offers evidence of a 
physiological character as regards the work which is thrown 
on the skin, even if, as is stated, some small part of skin per- 
spiration takes place independently of these glands. Then we 
have the evidence of the disagreeable odour from the skin and 
clothes where cleanliness is not observed; again, we have the 
striking facts of death having both actually and nearly occurred 
in cases where the body had been covered (the mouth having 
been left free) with gold-leaf or plaster of Paris. Thus, also, 
a case has come under the notice of one of the writers in which 
quite recently a farmer lost a large number of sheep owing to a 
preparation used, when they were dipped, containing a resinous 
element, which interfered with the breathing through the skin. 
Thus, too, chimney-sweepers — probably from deficient action of skin 
owing to constantly unclean linen " have eight times their due of 
malignant disease, especially cancer" (Russell, 401). Various ex- 
planations have been given, but Prof. Foster seems to think (p. 697) 
that the retention of poisonous matters — " constituents of sweat, or 
the products of some abnormal metabolism" (changes through which 
tissue passes) — which would have been discharged through the 
sweat glands, is largely concerned in the matter. Independently 
of certain physiological experiments, this conclusion rests upon 
much interesting evidence. 

Indeed we have a most remarkable case bearing on this point re- 
corded by Sir D. Galton ("Our Homes"). Some men in the Horse 

* Thus we should have from 118-3 to 236*6 grains of organic matter 
excreted by the skin in twenty-four hours. 



BAD AIR AND liXJ) HEALTH. 31 

Artillery had left their bedding rolled up for two months, without 
haying it opened to the air. When first used again, man after 
man, who had slept on this bedding, came into hospital with 
" a suspicious fever." It would be difficult to find a case 
that more vividly illustrates both the poisonous character of the 
emanations of the body, and the necessity of free exposure to air 
in order to render bedding harmless. Again, when serious conse- 
quences result from a chill — owing primarily to the constriction of 
the blood vessels of the skin and disturbance of the action of the 
sweat glands — such as a dangerous affection of the kidneys- 
(Richardson, p. 283), or a congestion of the spleen (Richardson, 
p. 307), or the more rare inflammation of bone (Richardson, p. 
323), it seems that the great cause of mischief in all thcvSe case* 
is either the retention of normal poisons that ought to have escaped. 
through the skin, or the formation of abnormal poisons during the 
inaction of the skin. [We think Dr. Richardson as well as Pro- 
fessor Beale suggests the formation of abnormal poisons.]* Again,, 
the foetid exhalations from lungs and skin in starvation, arising 
from the breaking down of tissue, which is very rapid in these 
cases and results in a larger discharge than usual, through skin 
and lungs, of putrid matter, show how these organs play their 
part in relieving us from the waste-poisons. 

From what has been already said, we ought not to feel surprised 
that those who live in foul air are not only lowering their health,, 
but are carefully preparing themselves either for lung and bronchial 
affections, or for such infectious diseases as scarlet fever, measles, 
diphtheria, small-pox, typhoid, cholera, &c.f As regards cholera, 
we extract the following interesting account given by Dr. Carpenter. 
He states (p. 360) that in the fatal autumn of 1 849 there was at 
Taunton an exceedingly badly ventilated workhouse. In the school- 
rooms there were only 68 cubic feet or less per head. The fatality 
of the cholera attack — thus carefully prepared for — was awful. 
Within 48 hours after the first attack 19 deaths and 42 seizures 
had taken place. In the course of a week 60, or 22 per cent. 
of the whole number, died, almost all the others suffering badly. 
Fewer boys died as compared with girls, because, as it was stated,, 
having even less air than the girls, they used to break the windows. 

* In such cases, however, the result will be principally dependent upon 
the previous state of the blood, as explained further on as regards a cold. 

t This dependence of infectious fevers upon the unhealthy condition of 
blood is discussed in the second paper. 



52 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

In the gaol of the same town, where each prisoner had over 800, 
and, in some cases, over 900 cubic feet, and where a system of 
ventilation kept renewing the air, there was not " the slightest 
indication of the epidemic influence." In August, 1849, the cholera 
raged severely in London, the mortality having increased from nearly 
1 per 1000 in June and July to 4^ in August and September. It 
happened that at this moment a large number of male prisoners 
were transfen-ed from Millbank Prison — which was in one of the 
bad districts — to another part of the country, the numbers being 
thus reduced from over 1000 to about 400 ; whilst at the same 
time the female prisoners were slightly increased in number in 
Millbank Prison, from 120 to 131. The consequences were remark- 
able. The mortality of the female prisoners (who were attacked) 
went up from a little over 8 to a little less than 54 per 1000 (which 
was very much above the rate of increase in the outside districts), 
whilst the mortality of the men fell from slightly over 23 per 
1000 to nearly 10 (the June and July rate of mortality). Carpenter 
gives other interesting examples, and also remarks upon the fact 
that the special centres of cholera existed, before the invasion of 
that disease, as fever nests ; and that cholera followed the footsteps 
of other diseases, not only in the same district, but in the same 
streets and houses, and even rooms.* 

As with cholera, so with other diseases. At Secunderabad, 
in India, in old days, the barrack accommodation for the Line was 
unusually deficient, and the average annual mortality of the men 
was nearly double the average of the Presidency ; whilst at the same 
station both the officers, who were well quartered, and the detach- 
ment of artillery, who had roomier barracks " at no great distance," 
did not share in the heightened mortality (Carpenter, p. 363). 
Barrackpore furnished an even worse example as regards 
troops ; but the worst of all was to be found in the Indian 

* Of course it would be unfair to put all such cases simply and exclusively 
down to the effects of vitiated air, as we might, perhaps, in the special case of the 
prison quoted ahove, since overcrowding in towns occurs amongst the poorest 
part of the people, living on the worst food, hadly clothed, and therefore 
for these reasons specially exposed to attacks of disease ; but with all such de- 
ductions, the evidence is of a very striking character. Dr. Richardson writes 
to the same effect. Speaking of relapsing fever, he says: — "The disease 
(1847) followed where the habitation was most crowded" ("Our Homes," 
p. 7) ; and, again, " Certain it is that homes which are charged with impure 
atmosphere are the places in which septic diseases are most likely to be 
intensified and most likely to spread " (Our Homes," p. 21). 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 33 

gaols, where, in some instances, 70 cubic feet only of air was 
the average allowed ; in no cases did it exceed 300 cubic feet. 
The mortality was, — as might be expected, — 1 in 4. It was a 
fair imitation of the Black Hole of Calcutta. So at the end of 
the last century, in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, the mortality 
from trismus of the children was 1 in every six born ; by better 
conditions of ventilation, it was reduced to 1 in 19^ (Carpenter, 
p. 365) ; and this number of deaths was again reduced. So in 
the London workhouses of last century, 23 out of 24 children 
died in their first year. By reforms, especially by improved 
ventilation, the number of deaths was reduced from between 
2000 and 3000 to between 400 and 500 (Carpenter, p. 365). So 
with our soldiers. When barracks were improved, especially in 
the matter of ventilation, deaths from zymotic diseases fell from 
4-1 per 1000 to 0-96 per 1000. So in the case of our sailors on 
board the Rattlesnake^ a case which came, as it is stated, under 
the notice of Professor Huxley. The crew (Carpenter, p. 256) 
had acquired by confinement (this seems to have been one special 
cause, though not the only cause) a predisposition to disease. 
No malady appeared, however, until one of them slightly wounded 
liis hand ; then disease appeared, and ran through the whole 
ship's company. They had carefully prepared themselves for 
disease with the poisons of impure air. 

We suspect, however, that no class of human beings suffers 
so much from the poison of foul air as infants. Hirschberger 
is stated to have declared that 25 per cent, of all children who 
die under one year of age die from tuberculosis. Older children 
and grown up persons are seldom so much shut up, and the 
other principal diseases by which so many infants die, diarrhoea, 
convulsions, atrophy, debility, teething, bronchitis, and pneumonia,* 
all of them strongly suggest the general irritation, or the special 
local poisoning, produced by re-breathing these waste - poisons, 
though improper food must often bear a large share of blame. Of 
^11 the evil consequences of foul air — as already seen — none can 
be traced more surely than phthisis or pulmonary consumption, to 
which disease nearly half the deaths between the ages of 15 and 35 
^re due in this country (Ransome, 35). Wherever men are crowded 

* According to Dr. Vernon, "Health Lectures," 1877, p. 2i8, seven out 
of ten infants die of these diseases (and premature birth). 

C 



34 BAD AIR AXD BAD HEALTH. 

together without care and proper means taken to supply them 
with fresh air, there pulmonary disease relentlessly destroys life. 
Parkes, Dr. A. Ransome, Sir D. Galton, and others have collected 
many interesting examples, bearing on this matter. Sir D. 
Galton tells us (" Our Homes," p. 502) that after our barracks 
were improved — ventilation being one of the leading improvements 
— chest and tubercular disease, which had been fatal to 10-1 per 
1000 soldiers, were only fatal to 4"2, and in the same way 
wdth proper ventilation (and other improvements) of the stables 
of the horses, coughs and catarrhs disappeared. He also quotes 
Dr. Leeds, of New York, to show that the supposed cure of 
sending a consumptive patient to a cow stable was in reality 
the cure of sending him into somewhat purer air than that of his 
own room (p. 502). Thus Dr. Ransome tells us (65) that wherever 
air is excluded, where courts and alleys are closed, there tubercular 
disease is favoured ; thus in proportion as people are attracted ta 
indoor trades, so the death-rate rises by lung disease (60) ; thus 
Dr. Greenhow concludes that the same constant proportion exists 
between indoor life and deaths by lung disease (Russell, 106) ; thus 
Dr. Farr shows that the same constant proportion exists between 
deaths from diseases of the respiratory organs and density 
of population (Russell, 106) ; thus the wives of agricultural 
labourers, employed at home, die at twice the rate, compared with 
their husbands, from consumption ; thus out-door occupations 
give immunity, — thus " the poor fishermen of Iceland, the hunters 
and trappers of North America, the nomad tribes of Asia and 
Africa, the wretched natives of Australia," and " the ill-fed, 
ill-clothed fishermen of St. Kilda and the Hebrides " hardly ever 
contract consumption (Ransome, 50) ; thus also comparatively 
escape consumption " soldiers on campaign, fishermen, hunters, 
gipsies, engine-drivers, gardeners, and agricultural labourers"; thus 
also escape, " blacksmiths, charcoal-burners, forge-men, iron pud- 
dlers, sailors, and coachmen"; thus while the comparative average 
of all persons dying (between certain ages) of consumption is 220 
in England and Wales, that of fishermen is only 108, or not quite 
half (Russell, 94) ; thus in breezy Westmoreland the deaths from 
consumption were 2-27, for all England 3-54, for Manchester town- 
ship 7*7 (Russell, 98, quoting Dr. Ransome, quoting Mr. Baxendell); 
thus the deaths from consumption, between certain ages, of weavers 
compared with spinners in cotton-mills increased as the foulness of 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 35 

air increased; — the deaths of weavers being 11-4 per cent., when 
the carbonic acid (resulting from respiration) in weaving sheds 
ranged from "7 to 1*4 per cent., whilst the deaths of spinners 
were 6*4 per cent., when the carbonic acid in spinning rooms was 
•55 per cent. (Ilussell, 95) ; thus it is stated that where the cubic 
feet in printing-rooms fell below a certain number per head, 12*5 
per cent, of the printers (compositors) had consumptive symptoms ; 
with larger space the number fell to 4 "35 ; and with further en- 
largement to 2 per cent. (Russell, 98, quoting Dr. Ransome, quoting 
Dr. Guy) ; thus in Canada the deaths in barracks from consump- 
tion were, at one time, 23 per 1000 ; as the barracks were improved 
and " better ventilation introduced " the deaths fell to something 
over 9, and again subsequently to 6 (Russell, 105) ; thus the deaths 
from respiratory diseases were twice as great in proportion to the 
population in metropolitan Surrey than in extra metropolitan Surrey 
(82) ; thus a bright sunny climate is good for the consumptive 
patient, just because it tempts him out of shut-up rooms into the 
open air (see Ransome, 47) ; thus even in the most favourable 
positions, such as high altitudes, those who live crowded together, 
or in shut-up rooms are not free from consumption (see 43) ; thus 
Baudelocque writes of air made foul by breathing : — " This is the 
true cause, — perhaps the sole cause, — of the disease of scrofula" 
(quoted by Ransome, 63) ; thus Sir J. Simon, when examining the 
causes of lung disease, writes : — " Probably none is so effective as 
the bad ventilation of the work-place" (quoted by Ransome, 62) ; 
thus Dr. Welch showed that consumption increased in the army 
with length of service owing to the long-continued breathing of 
impure air (see 64) ; thus Dr. Ransome thinks that oxygen dis- 
favours the bacillus of consumption, and that in an open-air-life 
" it is robbed of its power for evil "; thus Gautier writes (220), 
" people living in bad air, which, from not being sufficiently 
changed, is poor in oxygen, rich in carbonic acid, in moisture, 
and in hurtful miasmatic exhalations, pass successively to anaemia, 
to scrofula, and often to consumption. These effects show them- 
selves specially in women and children, still more in children on 
account of the delicacy and impressionability of their constitution. 
Moreover, among children . . different eruptive fevers, thrush 
and diphtheritic affections show themselves "; and thus Sir J. 
McCormack (quoted by Ransome, 63) writes : — " Wherever there is 
foul air, unrenewed air, impure air, we meet with consumption, we 



36 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

meet with scrofula, and untimely death." Thus also Dr. Richardson 
quotes a case where no less than nine members of a family following 
the occupation of Cheap Jack, were in succession the victims of 
consumption from sleeping in a travelling van, their life in the 
open air during the day being insufficient to counteract the poison 
breathed in the night ("Our Homes," p. 11). Parkes also tells 
us that in the Royal Navy and in the Mercantile Navy, bad 
ventilation and phthisis, occasionally amounting to a veritable 
epidemic, have gone hand in hand ; and he quotes many 
authorities insisting upon the close relation between foul air and 
pulmonary consumption. On the same point — the slaughter pro- 
duced by un ventilated barracks — Dr. Richardson tells us that the 
mortality in the Army before Sebastopol was during twenty-two 
weeks ending May 31, 1856, at the rate of 12'5 per 1000 as 
against 20*4 of the Guards quartered in England (" Our Homes," 
p. 13). Dr. A. Ransome reports a case as late as 1861, where 
fearful lung disease broke out in some of the ships of the Royal 
Navy. The arrangements were actually such that only 14 inches 
space w^as allowed to each hammock, and the air above the 
hammock w^as 8^ to 10° hotter than below.* 

The same evidence comes from the sedentary trades, some of 
which "afford experimental conditions for the development of 
disease " ; from the cases of phthisis (or some destructive lung 
disease) amongst coavs in unventilated sheds (Parkes, p. 162) ; 
from the higher rate of consumption in town as against village, 
and city as against town (Hirsch, p. 213) — in each case the dearer 
lodging implying more over-crowding ; from the outdoor treatment 
now recommended for consumptive patients ; and from many other 
classes of facts, f 

* The recent violence of influenza has been probably the result of that 
breathing of highly impure air, which is so common in our own country, and 
€ven more in other countries. We suspect that this disease deserves a 
leading place among the many forms of trouble which appear where people 
live in constant disregard of the purity of the air of their living rooms. 
They do not yet see that it is just as wrong to live in filthy air as it is 
to drink filthy water. 

f There are many interesting points — such as Sir G. Buchanan's views as 
regards the effect of dampness of soil, and Hirsch's theory as regards the 
high Mexic>in plateaus — which have to be considered ; but nothing yet written 
in any way shakes the great fact that impure air is found in the closest alliance 
with pulmonary consumption, and is the special favouring cause. As regards 
damp, we venture to believe that it greatly increases danger where there is a 
tainted soil, or matter liable to putrefaction ; otherwise, apart from any taint, 
and as merely affecting pure air, to be nearly harmless in itself, except 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 37 

When we eome to pneumonia, it is still the same poisons, we 
believe, which are at their mischievous work. Just as in pulmonary 
consumption the bacillus finds its food prepared for it by the 
unhealthy state of the blood and tissues — altered by the poisons 
that have been rebreathed from foul air — so also must it be in 
pneumonia, if we are to accept the theory, that pneumonia is 
directly caused by a special bacillus of its own (" Crookshank,'* 
p. 273). Secondary pneumonia, which is a lung attack resulting 
from the poison in the system from such a fever as typhoid, 
throws light upon this matter, and seems exactly to explain the 
origin of ordinary pneumonia. Where ordinary pneumonia is not 
preceded by some violent exposure and chill, — in other words by 
violent poisoning through the skin — we believe that it would be 
almost always found that the person attacked had been living in 
rooms where the air was impure, had breathed consequently, again 
and again, the exhaled poisons, until these poisons had so altered 
the tissue as to allow the bacillus to obtain a lodgment ; in other 
words that he was as much "poisoned" as the person suffering 
from secondary pneumonia. Of course any slight chills, by arrest- 
ing the action of the skin, by thus increasing the poison in the 
system, and by diverting the blood that has been poison-laden, 
perhaps for many months, from the surface of the body — where it 
undergoes a certain aeration, with a consequent mitigation of 
the mischief — to the internal organs, are likely enough to be the 
immediate precursor of the attack by rendering the conditions still 
more favourable for the germ. Again, latent pneumonia in quite 
young children is sometimes masked (Quain, p. 880) by consider- 
able nervous disorder which precedes it. This nervous disorder 
tells the story. It is caused by the poisons which are acting on 
the system, poisons which solely and simply result, as we believe, 
in far the majority of cases, from the villainous state of air that 
is common in nurseries, and which prepare the system for every 

perhaps so far as it may affect skin action in certain persons, and thua 
lessen elimination of poison by the skin. It has also certain bad indirect 
effects, — the wet bricks of a house, for example, allowing less air to pass 
than the dry bricks. The moral cf this is, — that we should not be afraid 
of letting pure damp air freely through open windows into a room ; but 
that we should take every precaution against damp rising from the ground 
and affecting floors, walls, &c. ; or against floors, walls, &c., left continuously 
in a damp state, as these almost always have some organic impurities 
about them, and the damp favours the decay of these impurities. *' Shutting 
up " seems to us the worst and most dangerous method of fighting damp. 



38 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

kind of disorder, especially those affecting the respiratory organs.* 
The same thing happens after poisoning by drink. 

It might, however, be urged that a person leading a healthy 
outdoor life might, after severe exposure, be attacked by pneu- 
monia. Certainly ; and in his case the attack would mean violent 
momentary poisoning (whether direct poisoning or a sudden altera- 
tion of the state of tissue so as to allow the growth of the germ) 
through the skin ; just as in the case of the man living in bad air, 
it would mean gradual slow poisoning through the bad air taken 
into the lungs. But in his case, the attack, if the life has been 
lived under really healthy conditions, should be more safely and 
easily got over. 

The case of a common cold is exactly analogous, but simpler 
and clearer. It should not be called a " cold," but, in more exact 
language, " throat poisoning." What really happens is this : — 
A. B. lives in unventilated offices and rooms, breathing bad air, 
until his blood assumes a poisoned condition. During this time 
the impure blood flows through the small blood-vessels of the 
surface of the body, as the result of the hot rooms, and of the 
tendency of impure blood to relieve itself by respiration through 
the skin. Then seme slight chill — so slight, perhaps, that it was 
imperceptible to him at the time — acts upon his skin ; the flow 
of blood is diverted from the surface of the body to the internal 
organs, and the minute blood vessels, that line the mucus membrane 
of the air-passages, become full and congested. As this happens, 
the walls of these little blood-vessels become stretched, and in con- 
sequence thinner, and as a second consequence allow their contents 
to transude easily. As the contents transude, the poison that is in 
the blood escapes also, acts probably both upon the local nerves and 
the small local nerve-centres, and by affecting these nerve-centres 
still further paralyses their nerve-fibres which go — as Beale has 

* If on the other hand it is believed that pneumonia can arise without the 
intervention of the bacillus, we must regard it as a case of direct instead of 
indirect poisoning ; that is, that the organ was directly poisoned by poisons 
discharged into it from the blood, instead of the tissues of the organ being 
altered by these same poisons, so as to afford the special food which the bacillus 
requires for its rapid growth. That there is such direct poisoning we know 
from those attacks of the liver and kidneys, which follow a chill — itself 
following a long-continued poisoning of the blood — and in which the poisons 
(which had accumulated before the skin failed to act owing to the final 
chill) are thrown back on to those organs. Parkes <'164) b(ilieved that 
hronchitic affections are often produced from the breathing of foul air. 



BAD AIR AXD BAD HEALTH. 39 

shown — to the minute blood-vessels.* The effect of this paralysis is 
still more to relax the minute blood-vessels and thus to favour an 
increased transudation of the contents so that the poisoning of the 
part is increased, with the usual accompanying symptoms of poison- 
ing, — the pouring out of mucus, which marks both the irritation 
that exists and the protective effort to render the poison harmless, 
and the loss of sensation and contraction in the part. Professor 
Beale points out (S. A., 122) when a cold is coming on, how a part 
of the throat loses its contracting power. The muscles of the 
pharynx, generally so sensitive to any stimulus, contract " very 
sloM^y," or " not at all," and the familiar difficulty in swallowing 
shows that the nerves are jDartly paralysed and no longer able 
to fulfil their functions. We have an example of the same 
paralysis from poison in the case of the common gnat-bite. As 
Professor Beale (S. A., 307) points out, the little red spot sur- 
rounding the bite is the result of the paralysis (by the poison) 
of the local nerves or the small local nerve-centres, and marks 
the dilatation and gorging with blood (congestion) of the minute 
blood-vessels that surround the spot bitten. f 

It is of importance to notice one point carefully in this matter. 
Mr. Erasmus Wilson (150), in writing about " a cold," describes 
how, as the small blood-vessels of the skin contract, under the 
influence of cold, the skin circulation comes to an end, and the 
blood is thrown either upon the throat or lungs, causing throat or 
lung disease, or upon the membranes lining nose, eyes, or ears, 
producing a cold in the head, or upon stomach, producing stomach 
disorder, or upon the kidneys, producing pain in the loins, or on 
the joints, producing rheumatism, or on the nerves, producing 
neuralgia, &c. ; and Mr. Russell gives much the same account of 
a cold. But surely the mere transference of the blood from one 
part of the body to the other cannot be responsible for all these 
evils. Unless the exposure to cold is sufficiently violent to lead to 
the formation of abnormal poisonous substances in the blood at 
the moment itself, as the blood begins to stagnate in the skin- 
capillaries, — a formation that probably takes place only when either 
the chill is very violent, or the blood is very impure, — there can be 

* A certain amount of poisoning of the tissue might have gone on for some 
previous time ; but the sudden violent poisoning brings matters to a climax. 

t Speaking of this paralysis he says, '* mainly due to poison expelled," 
and also suggests another cause. 



40 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH, 

no reason why the flow of blood directed from the surface to the 
interior should be hurtful. On the contrary, it is in itself a pre- 
serv^ative and most necessary process which is constantly taking 
place to regulate the temperature of the blood in a greater or 
lesser degree. The truth is that the mischief depends upon the 
previous state of the blood. It is the sudden flow of vitiated 
blood (vitiated, it may be, from many different causes, from over- 
eating, from drinking habits, from drinking impure water or taking 
impure food, from over-fatigue, from deficient exercise, from 
failure of any of the great purifying organs, from old age and 
impaired functions, but above all and in the great majority of 
cases, from breathing impure air) which, thrown upon some 
organ — itself from the same cause in an unhealthy state — and 
escaping through the distended capillaries, creates the disturbance 
and does the mischief. That very mischief, however, is preser- 
vative in its character, as we shall try to show in another paper, 
and is in the general interests of the body. 

There are many other evidences that the common cold — like 
its more serious congeners, bronchitis, pneumonia, and consumption 
itself — is a case of poison in the blood from which the system is 
relieving itself by discharging the poison into some special organ. 
In the first place in some of the infectious diseases, when the 
system is struggling to get rid of a specific poison, the respira- 
tory tract is affected, just as if it were an attack of ordinary 
sore throat or pneumonia or bronchitis. Thus, in measles one 
of the early symptoms is " a short dry cough " (Collie, 43) ; thus 
measles is " often mistaken for a cold or cough " (Russell, 227) ; 
thus in severe cases the cough is " frequent and distressing,'* 
"the lungs greatly congested" (Collie, 205), whilst "the most 
formidable and most frequent of all the complications of measles 
is broncho-pneumonia " (206) ; thus, too, in typhus " the com- 
plications are chiefly pulmonary " (112) and " congestion is so 
frequent that it should be regarded rather as part of the 
disease " — a fact indicating only too clearly — when we remember 
that typhus is the disease of over-crowding — that the respiratory 
system is specially liable to be attacked, whenever trouble comes 
from living in bad air ; thus, too, congestion of the lungs is a 
common complication in typhoid ; thus throat symptoms play an 
important part in scarlet fever, and sore throat in many cases 
leads up both to scarlet fever and diphtheria (Russell, 135), — • 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 41 

*' mild throat cases were the connecting links between successive 
outbreaks of diphtheria" (141); just, indeed, as colds lead up to 
consumption itself (116) — the frequent return of common cold 
evidently indicating that the system is fairly poisoned, and that 
unless the conditions of life are changed some more serious form 
of poisoning will be presently developed. 

Many more similar examples might be given; but perhaps 
these are sufficient of their kind to show that troubles in some 
part of the respiratory tract are constantly arising when from 
various causes poison is circulating in the system; and therefore 
cases of cold, influenza, bronchitis, pneumonia, and indeed con- 
sumption itself, must be looked upon as cases of one common 
family, as cases of poison, first accumulated in the blood-stream 
— in far the larger number of instances due to breathing bad 
air — then discharged at some point or other of the respiratory 
tract, in order that the system may be rid of the poison that 
is embarrassing it. We shall discuss the matter again in the 
second part of this paper, and here it is sufficient merely 
to say that all these outpourings of poison from the blood- 
stream into various parts of the body — however painful or 
even dangerous in themselves — are protective in their nature. 
When the poison is poured out into the upper air-passages, it 
is for the sake of protecting the lower air-passages and the 
lungs ; when it is poured out into the lungs, it is to protect the 
great nervous centres on which the maintenance of life depends 
from minute to minute, and which must be safe-guarded even at 
the expense of an important organ like the lungs. Thus there 
is a sort of hierarchical order existing among the organs ; and 
Nature, like a skilful general, sacrifices — as the need arises — a 
valuable outpost to save the citadel. 

We may, moreover, appeal to some evidences of another class 
to show that throat and lung attacks are essentially cases of 
poison discharged from the blood at certain points. When 
seventy-two persons were partially poisoned at Welbeck, in 1880, 
by eating beef-and-ham sandwiches (Klein, 122), pneumonia [and 
enteritis] were found "most prominent" as post-mortem symptoms; 
in a similar case at Nottingham in 1881 the post-mortem disclosed 
"intense pneumonia" (124), whilst in both instances the animals 
which were inoculated with the same meat exhibited the same 
symptoms ; then also poisonous alkaloids are found (Brown) 



42 BAD AIR AXD BAD HEALTH. 

in what passes through the kidneys of pneumonic patients; and 
animals dying of swine plague are found to have inflammation of the 
lungs (Klein, 134) ; and thus — to take a lesser fact of a different 
order but equally significant — in pneumonia, as Lauder Brunton 
points out, the temperature falls, when an aperient is successfully 
given, and remains high when constipation exists, — indicating that 
the poisons which result from constipation (owing to absorption 
of putrescent matter through the intestine) increase the sum total 
of poison in the system, and maintain the fever. Thus also in 
a severe febrile attack in an orphanage, caused principally by too 
much sewage being distributed on insufficient land, " pneumonia 
often supervened. . . Dr. Bridges thought that pneumonia was 
present in a large proportion of the cases, but was sometimes abor- 
tive " (Russell, 366), — an instance bringing into close relation with 
each other the previous poisoning of the blood and the resulting 
pneumonia. Perhaps, however, of all the facts which connect 
diseases of the respiratory machine with a poisoned state of the 
blood — and especially with that poisoned state which arises from 
breathing impure air, is the case of persons with gouty tendencies 
in advanced age. These persons are apt to suffer from atheroma, 
that is, the channel, or bore, of the arteries becomes smaller, and 
consequently smaller quantities of blood are aerated in the lungs, 
and therefore the waste of the tissues is less efficiently disposed of. 
As a result, bronchitis is apt to supervene, — the aeration of diminished 
quantities of blood owing to the diminished channel of the blood- 
vessels almost exactly re-producing what takes place in the case of 
the ordinary healthy person who lives in impure air. [If it is right 
to interrupt the argument to draw a moral, — such moral would be 
that persons in advanced age should be as much out of doors as 
possible, should eat moderately so as to lessen waste, and be exceed- 
ingly careful about changing the air of their living rooms. Pure air 
is as vitally important to them as it is to those who are affected 
with some specific fever and are fighting for their lives against 
the poison which has taken hold of their system]. Thus, again, 
"senile pneumonia " that shows itself " in old persons, especially 
if broken down," (Fothergill, S. and A.), tells exactly the same 
story. Much the same thing, again, happens with kidney disease. 
Waste-poisons circulating in the blood, from whatever cause, seem 
specially liable to affect the air-passages. Campbell (21) speaking 
of kidney disease, writes : " The circulation of nitrogenous sewage 



BAD AIR AXD BAD HEALTH. 



43 



renders the tissues more apt to inflame ; hence the tendency to 
bronchitis, and [inflammation of the serous textures]"; thus Prosser 
James writes : — " Gouty people are prone to sufEcr from chronic 
inflammatory or congestive sore throat, which is greatly aggravated 
at intervals" (157) ; and thus, again, it is held that asthma may be 
due to improper substances circulating in the blood and irritating 
the muscular fibres or nerves of the larger air passages, and thus 
causing their contraction (see L. Brunton, 40). It is also interest- 
ing to note that a drug (iodide of potassium) may produce in some 
persons the symptoms of a cold (Collie, 211 ; "a violent coryza," 
Robinson, 2) ; whilst in others it may produce a bullous rash, — 
indicating that the system sometimes gets rid through the air- 
passages, sometimes through the skin, of what is poisonous to it. 

There are some interesting analogies to be noticed in this 
matter. Just as the mucus membrane of the air passages may 
take " cold " or to speak more correctly, may be affected 
by an outpouring of poison, so also may the mucus membrane 
of the stomach and intestine. In Professor Beale's words 
{S. A. 350) " It becomes red and less moist than in the normal 
state," "the secretion of gastric juice is interfered with, and its 
qualities changed." In truth, a stomach or intestinal attack is. 
often exactly parallel to an affection of the respiratory system, 
— poison being poured out into these tracts for the sake of 
purifying the blood-stream and getting rid of the poison, — as in 
the case of a cold, at the cost of considerable inconvenience and 
suffering to the part poisoned. One other fact makes the com- 
parison more interesting. The same cause, the same poison present 
in the system may affect either or both of these tracts (the 
respiratory and the digestive). Thus in parts of Leicester, 
of which we are told that " its soil has been much polluted 
dfrom insufficient and defective sewers," there has been much 
trouble, says Mr. Russell, from summer diarrhoea, — in this case 
the poisons of the infected air attacking the digestive rather than 
the respiratory tract. Thus again there is a connection between 
■dysentery — just as there is between sore throat — and bad venti- 
lation (Russell, 169); "it appears probable," writes Dr. Ransome 
(66), quoting from report on back-to-back houses, " that the 
want of thorough ventilation " favours a rise not only in diseases 
of the respiratory organs, but in diarrhoea; in India, writes Mr. 
Russell, there is a prevalence of dysentery from over-crowding 



44 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

and want of ventilation in barracks ; thus, as we all know^ 
sewer gas, which has found its way into a house, may produce 
either sore throat or diarrhoea, or both ; thus we see enumerated 
amongst the causes of diarrhoea some of the very same causes 
which favour disease of the respiratory organs, such as chill, 
"damp, cold, dark, unventilated buildings" and emanations from 
decaying organic matter (Quain's article Diarrhoea, referred to 
by Russell, 126) ; thus the influenza-poison " in cold weather and 
cold countries largely attacks the respiratory organs " (Russell, 
437) — a fact which results not from the cold but from our shutting 
ourselves up in bad air — whilst " in warm weather and warm 
countries" (where sanitation is often bad and drinking water is 
often polluted) " it largely attacks " the intestines ; and thus the 
eating of meat in an improper state may produce either the early 
symptoms of a cold or a disturbance of the digestive system. A 
case of a boarding school was brought to the notice of one of 
the writers where cod in a wrong condition was eaten. From 
the first symptoms which occurred, the mistress of the school 
thought that a cold and sore throat were running through a part 
of the school. So also in the case of boils [a case, where the 
poison in the system seeks another outlet in the place of the air- 
passages] "the inhalation of infected air" may be, like eating 
diseased meat or over-eating, a cause of the trouble (Beale, S. 
A., 357), — indicating pretty clearly how many different methods 
there are by which we can produce similar states of poisoning, 
and provoke the same remedy or similar remedies ; so mosquito- 
bites, in the same manner as impure air, may favour boils (Beale, 
S. A., 357), — im23lying that in both cases, just as with the 
eating of diseased meat, the common cause of mischief is the 
poison taken into the blood ; and so also " sewer gas has been 
proved to be a cause of erysipelas" (Russell, 172) — showing 
again how the same poison taken into the blood may alike affect 
the skin, respiratory tract, and digestive tract, and be discharged 
from the system at one or other of these outlets. If one more 
link is wanted, it is to be found in the fact stated by Mr. Russell 
that sewer gas " has now been shown to be the cause of much 
pytcmia in hospitals." Thus we have the poisoning of the blood and 
the resulting affection of different organs, just according to circum- 
stances, by the same agent. When we look at all these facts taken 
together, it is very hard to escape the conclusion that the diseases 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 45 

of our respiratory organs are cases of blood-poisoning, and — in far 
the great majority of such cases — of the poisoning which results 
from living in impure air. Nature is not a fool, though we 
often like to treat her as such. She did not elaborate for 
us that most costly apparatus for purifying the blood, which we 
call the lungs, and leave it a matter of indifference whether we 
breathed again or not what had been already cast out of the 
system by her efforts. As Professor Foster has shown, the force 
which we expend daily on the internal machinery and internal work 
of our bodies is much greater than the force we have at our 
command to expend in labour outside the body ; whilst — as we have 
already seen — the labour of the heart alone represents for a day 
in foot pounds {i.e., the raising a pound a foot high) a walk to the 
top of Snowdon. We can thus see cleaily how deliberately we 
thwart the intentions of nature and the elaborate efforts she has 
made to endow us with good health, when we refuse to give our 
lungs a fair chance by offering them through many hours of the 
day impure air to breathe. 

From what we have said it must not be supposed that chill plays 
no part in producing cold. As a fact it often pulls the trigger ; 
and brings on the cold that is due. But though chill is a 
thoroughly bad thing in itself, as affecting the action of the skin 
and its excretion of poison, to all those who are susceptible to it,* 
its real harmfulness almost always depends upon the poisoned and 
unhealthy condition of the blood which precedes the chill, whether 
such condition has been produced by living under unhealthy condi- 
tions, or by weakness in some organ on which the purity of the 
blood depends. The slight causes of chill, which then become 
hurtful, ought to have hardly any effect upon naturally healthy 
persons living in good air ; though for all that, as long as they 
have the slightest effect, they must be most carefully avoided. 

A few words should be added as regards those diseases which 
are closely associated with certain bacilli. As we have already 

* When blood is stagnating in the capillaries, writes Beale (S. A., 162), 
substances may be formed " which, re-entering the blood, may poison . . 
the system." This would probably only take place, as we have said, either 
in the case of blood in a vitiated condition, or of feebly performed functions, or 
of severe chill. Few persons under ordinary circumstances and with ordinary 
care ought to take such a chill in waking hours. The time when there is far 
more danger — to those who are susceptible — is at night with open windows, 
when the temperature may fall suddenly. 



46 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

said, and shall try to show later, the intervention of the disease- 
bacillus — for example, in consumption or in pneumonia — in no way 
alters the essential conditions of the case. In a state of true health 
and pure blood, the inhaling of chance disease-germs, as we believe^ 
will not produce disease, — infectious disease requiring that the blood 
should have been previously altered or poisoned. But on this^ 
matter a good deal has to be said. 

Reserving, then, many matters for discussion in our second paper, 
we can only say here, in conclusion, that we are convinced that 
very grave issues are dependent upon the question of breathing pure 
air in our houses. We suspect that not only liability to cold, but 
common troubles like gout, rheumatism, lumbago, neuralgia, some 
forms of headache, and of dyspepsia, and many forms of nervous 
irritation, are generally to be conquered by constantly giving 
lungs and skin a fair chance of getting rid of these poisons, unless- 
indeed either the digestive organs, or an eliminating purifying 
organ, like the kidneys, are failing in their duty ;* we feel sure that 
the irritable temper that so often accompanies severe literary work, 
and at last ends in the " break-down," must largely be put ta 
the account of the impure air breathed through long hours ; and 
we suspect that much of the intemperate drinking in towns- 
results from the depressed feeling which follows work done under 
similar conditions. We think a great societyf might be formed tO' 
arouse the interest of all classes in this subject, and that friendly 
enquiries should be made — the answers being published — as to the 
provision for fresh air in hotels, concert-rooms, theatres, schools, 
examination rooms, churches, &;c. We are, both of us, opposed ta 
action being taken through State-inspectors. The present evil 
will never really be overcome until individual interest is aroused ; 

* Living in pure air is not sufficient in itself to keep the blood pure, if 
the digestion is imperfectly performed. The difficulties of diet must be 
satisfactorily arranged by each person for himself, and constipation avoided, 
if the blood stream is to be kept in a pure state. Constipation often means 
that .some kind of food taken is disagreeable to the liver and is conse- 
quently throwing too much work iipon it and impairing its action. 

f A sketch of the proposed society is given in our second paper. A 
great society is in itself an evil as well as a good. It should be organised 
80 as to develop individual action as much as possible, and to minimise official 
action, — indeed it should rather be a bond of encouragement existing between 
individual workers, than an organization, consisting of a small body doing 
everything, and a large body doing nothing. Meanwhile each individual 
should be doing his best in his own way. That in reality is worth more 
than any society. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 47 

and the State-inspector does not develop individual interest. We 
shall be glad to communicate with any persons anxious to take 
steps in the matter, and shall hope to draw up a short paper 
containing a few practical suggestions of a simple nature. Mean- 
while, without discussing systems of artificial ventilation, we say 
to everybody : " Live as much as you can with open windows, 
wearing whatever extra clothes are necessary. In this way you will 
turn the hours of your sedentary work to physical profit instead 
of physical loss. The secret of health is to turn indoor life into 
outdoor life, by adapting your windows, so as to be able to open 
them as widely as possible in different kinds of weather, then to 
open them widely^ then to get curtains and other impedi- 
ments to air well fastened back, and then, as regards yourself, 
to wear a sufficiency of extra clothing that will make you 
thoroughly comfortable. If unfortunately you think you cannot 
bear an open window, even with an extra coat, and a rug 
over your knees, when you are sitting in a room, do the 
next best thing, which is : throw all windows wide open — not a 
poor six inches — whenever you leave your room, and thus get rid 
of the taint of the many dead bodies that we have breathed 
out from ourselves, and that hang like bad ghosts about our 
houses. Smuts, as we confess, may be bad, but they are 
white as snow compared with impure air. Pay special attention 
to the constant exposure to pure air both of clothes and of 
bedding. If susceptible, avoid chill, that is one very bad form of 
poisoning ; but just as carefully avoid impure air, that is another 
and still more dangerous form of poisoning, because it gives 
no immediate warning of the evil that is taking place, and 
will at last produce the most serious results." 

Our addresses are : — Harold Wager, Yorkshire College, Leeds ; 
Auberon Herbert, Old House, Ringwood, Hants. 

HAROLD WAGER, 
AUBEROX HERBERT. 



-48 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

Several gentlemen were kind enough to read the foregomg 
paper, when it was first published, and to express the following 
opinions upon it. We ought to say that it has undergone some 
considerable alterations and received some considerable additions 
especially towards the end, since it was submitted to them. We 
do not know how far any approval, previously expressed, would 
apply to the paper in its present form. The letters have been left 
.almost in the order received. 

Lord Playfair wrote : 

" I return your proof with only a few suggestions. The paper 
is a good exposition of air in its relations to public health, and 
is likely to be very useful. You ought to follow it up with another 
paper on water, and conclude with one on cleanliness. Pure 
air, pure water, and cleanliness, personal and objective, are the 
three great factors of public health, provided that people are 
: adequately fed. Napoleon, reciting his long personal experiences 
:at St. Helena, made a wise remark : — ' Life is a fortress which 
neither you nor I know anything about. Why throw obstacles 
in the way of its defence ? Water, air, and cleanliness are the 
chief articles in my pharmacopoeia.' You and Mr. Wager have 
made an excellent beginning with air. Follow it up with essays 
on water and cleanliness, and then, as a veteran sanitary reformer, 
I will begin to think that my time for preaching is ended. I 
write this withholding my judgment on certain special theories 
you have advanced." 

Professor Huxley wrote : 

" When you insist upon the importance of fresh air — especially 
in combination with exercise — I go heartily with you. I have 
long been convinced (and to a great extent by personal experience) 
that what people are pleased to call ' overwork,' in a large pro- 
portion of cases means under-oxygenation and consequent 
accumulation of waste-matter, which operates as a poison. The 
* depression ' of overworked nervous organization, is very 
commonly the 'oppression' of some physiological candle-snuff 
not properly burnt. 

" Furthermore, it is highly probably that the decaying organic 
matter given off from the whole free surface of animal bodies, 
-taken in conjunction with its microbial contents, is a source of 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 49 

danger, but whether directly or indirectly is a point about which 
I should not like to speak confidently. 

" The fact is, while the virtues of fresh air and the wisdom of 
physical purity as a prophylactic may be very confidently justified 
by experience, the theory of the subject is full of difficulties, 
and the present views of physiologists must be regarded as merely 
tentative hypotheses. I should not feel justified in putting the 
theoretical points you advance as safely established truths before 
the public. I began to mark some paragraphs I thought specially 
open to objection ; but I cannot go into the matter, as I am myself 
struggling out of the influenza poison, which afflicts one's brain 
with mere muddiness." 

Dr. Clifford Allbutt wTote : 

" Whether there be room for question in parts of your argument 
or not, it is in the main true, and your practical conclusions are as 
solidly true as they are impressive. 

" If any one doubt, let him try the marvellous recreation of a few 
nights camped out sub dio, and be converted. 

" Moreover, the marvellous effects of an open-air life in the cure 
of such maladies as consumption are known of all men. But is it 
kind to tell us these dreadful things when we are helpless to amend 
them? 

" Your home solution of the problem is known to your friends, 
and is excellent in your circumstances, but is impossible in towns, 
where every inch of window means an inch of grime on walls, 
ceilings, and furniture. Not only so, but our big common dwelling- 
halls are gone, our high -backed chairs and settles are gone, our 
tapestry is gone, and air supplied in modem fashion hy slits or pipes 
means ' draughts.' 

" Now, ' draughts ' will kill some of us as quickly as ptomaines 
and far more painfully. 

" Please write another paper to tell us w^hat is to be done ! " 

Dr. W. B. Cheadle wrote : 

" I am sure that you are doing a valuable sanitary service in 
calling attention to the chronic poisoning by foul air which goes on 
so constantly without being realised, in the homes of both rich and 
poor, and in business offices, and in workshops. 

" The poor suffer from the small, ill-ventilated cubic space avail- 

D 



50 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

able for either sitting-rooms or bed-rooms, and the crowding of 
work-rooms ; the better classes partly from the close offices in which 
some of them work, but chiefly from defective bedroom space and 
ventilation. Few people, I imagine, realise the fact that about one- 
third of their whole lives is spent in their bedrooms^ and that they 
pass this third part of their existence in an atmosphere so poisoned 
by organic matter that it would not be tolerated in a sitting-room 
for a moment. The amount of space allowed in bed-rooms and 
dormitories is frequently altogether insufficient. Doors and 
windows are tightly closed, and there is practically little venti- 
lation going on for six or eight hours of sleeping time, whereas 
in sitting-rooms the admission of air is promoted by persons 
passing in and out. 

" This steady nightly poisoning goes on in many public institu- 
tions, I am afraid, in the ' houses ' of some public schools, and the 
doraiitories of charitable institutions. They are well ventilated 
during the day, closed at night, and the allowance of cubic space is 
quite insufficient to supply fresh air enough with the very small 
influx which can take place. 

" Night nurseries again, especially in large towns, are liable to be 
grossly overcrowded. I have seen a small, low room, in the attics 
of a London mansion used as a sleeping apartment for five or six 
children and a nurse, Avhich had not space or ventilation enough for 
two persons. 

"Without endorsing the whole of the pathology suggested in 
your excellent paper, I am sure you are right in attributing a large 
proportion of ill-health, contagious disease, and especially the 
increased virulence of this, to air fouled by organic matter." 

Professor W. H Flower wrote : 

" I am not sufficiently acquainted with modern physiology to 
know whether all the scientific details of the paper are correct, 
but I quite agree with you in the very great importance of the 
subject being pressed home upon all classes. How, for instance, 
could people travel in a railway carriage with perhaps six or 
more companions, shut up together for several hours, and 
insisting on keeping all the tvindoivs closed, as they often do, if 
they were made to realise that the air which they are breathing 
must necessarily be passing in and out of the lungs, not only of 
themselves, but of all their fellow-travellers as well, over and 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 51 

over again in the course of the journey, and each time becoming 
more and more contaminated ? 

" I have always thought, though I have not medical experience 
-enough to prove it, that the greater prevalence of tuberculosis and 
other lung disease in cold over warm climates is owing, not so 
much to difference of temperature, as to the fact that in the 
former there is a greater tendency to breath impure air for the 
purpose of warmth. My theories on the subject are, however, 
rather staggered by the thought of rabbits, sand-martins, &c., 
passing a considerable part of their lives at the bottom of burrows, 
where anything like ventilation seems absolutely impossible, and 
yet remaining perfectly healthy." 

Mr. Lawson Tait wrote : 

" What can I add to an article, so lucidly written, save that I 
agree generally with it, and hope that it may be productive of 
great good, as it well may." 

Surgeon-Major George Paddock Bate, M.D., 5th R. B. Med. Off., 
Bethnal Green, wrote : 

" I think you have (in an otherwise exhaustive article) made 
no mention of the fouling of the air produced by damp walls, 
floors, and foundations. 

" Many houses in the district for which I am Medical Officer, 
are so badly constructed, that dampness more or less is always 
present, and patches of wall, where undisturbed, become rapidly 
covered with mildew, and the same condition obtains beneath the 
floor-boards where there is no ventilation. 

" Of course you are aware that putrefaction is accelerated by 
moisture, and " dirt" on walls, and beneath floors, which in a dry 
state would be harmless, undergoes certain changes in the presence 
of moisture, and becomes a fruitful source of disease. In camp 
here (Shorn cliff e), we find that if the floor boards of the tents 
are not frequently taken up, and the ground exposed to light and 
air, the surface becomes most offensive, and sore throats, and 
ultimately diphtheria amongst the men, may be caused by the foetid 
emanations from beneath the boards. 

" Doubtless you saw an account of a local enquiry recently, 
held in Bethnal Green by order of the Home Office, as to the 
immediate sanitary requirements of the District. I was exposed 



52 BAD AIR AXD BAT) HEALTH. 

to a good deal of mild chaff, because I held that dilapidations 
of houses were sometimes not the cause of unhealthiness to the 
inmates, but, on the contrary, were often an advantage, as they 
improved the ventilation, and thereby prevented disease. I see 
you have scored the same point in your article." 

Professor Sir John Banks, LL.D., M.D., University of Dublin, 
wrote : 

" T have read the article on " Bad Air and Bad Health " with 
very great interest, and I beg to assure you that T give my un- 
qualified assent to nearly all the views on the subject which you 
have advanced. I have no doubt you have done good service to- 
the public, and I join in the hope expressed by Sir Lyon Playfair, 
that you will follow it up with an essay on ' Water and Clean- 
liness.' No one can be more thoroughly impressed with the 
power possessed by fresh air in the prevention of disease, and it» 
salutary influence on its progress when present, than I am. 

" I have myself, like most Hospital Physicians in Ireland, whose 
duties involve frequent intercourse with fever cases, absorbed the 
pestilential effluvia, which if largely diluted with fresh air is- 
comparatively innocuous. I was conscious at the moment that I 
had absorbed the poison. 

" Many proofs I might adduce from my own experience of the 
fatal effects of bad air in the production and spread of disease. 
I may briefly refer to a few. A physician visited a person 
labouring under fever, who resided in a small low apartment 
wholly destitute of ventilation. Perceiving a most disagreeable 
smell, he observed that he had caught the infection, and he 
rushed to the window and forced out a pane of glass. Such a 
deadly dose had he taken in that he died on the fourth day. 
So concentrated was the typhus poison that he was overwhelmed, 
stricken do^\'n as it were " uno ictu." Many similar cases I might 
refer to. During the prevalence of some of the epidemics of 
typhus fever, which have devastated Ireland, the hospital accom- 
odation being insufficient, tents were erected for the overflow of 
the hospitals. It was found that the mortality of the patients ia 
the tents was much less than that of those placed as it was at 
first supposed under much more favourable conditions, attended 
with a care not always bestowed on the others. It may be 
noticed that many of the hospitals Avere ill-ventilated, and such 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 53 

was the pressure on them, that double the number for which 
they were suited were admitted. 

" At one time it was said that Ireland was the favourite habitat 
of typhus fever. Virchow in his work on ' Hunger Fever ' thus 
describes Ireland — ' Ireland ist noch heute das Land des hungers 
und der Auswanderung des Fleckfieber.' I am happy to say it no 
longer deserves the appellation. Cases of true typhus are becom- 
ing rare, owing to the improved state of the country in all 
respects. No need for ' entassement ' of proofs of the e^^l 
influence of bad air in the causation of disease. I have only 
selected a few examples." 

Mr. R. N. MacDonald, M.D., Gesto Hospital, Edinbane, Skye, 
wrote : 

" I have read your article on ' Bad Air and Bad Health * in 
the Contemporary Review for this month, and agree with it in 
ioto^ barring some trifling details that might be difficult to carry 
out in practice. It has been arranged exceedingly well, and 
contains no more thunder than is necessary to awaken public 
interest in the matter. The writers have also shown an intimate 
acquaintance with all those physiological questions which have 
to be solved and understood before one can speak authoritatively 
on the vital processes that are brought into play in health and 
disease, and all the causes which may disturb the former and 
produce the latter." 

Mr. H. S. Webb, M.R.C.S., of Welwyn, Herts., wrote : 
"The paper entirely meets with my approval. From long ex- 
perience, I am convinced of the necessity of pure air for the 
maintenance of health and for the cure of disease ; for I see, 
day by day, the injurious and often fatal effects of the depriva- 
tion of it. I see the children of the poorer classes running about 
the streets and lanes healthy and happy, but if, unfortunately, 
they contract whooping cough, measles, or such like diseases 
of childhood, and are compelled to remain in bed in small ill- 
ventilated rooms, with several other persons helping to consume 
the poorly oxygenated air, they very frequently succumb, not to 
the disease, but to the deprivation of the lungs of their natural 
stimulant. 

"As you are well aware, it takes a great deal of iteration and 



54 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

reiteration to overcome popular prejudices. For years I have 
striven hard to impress on my patients and their friends the 
vital importance of free ventilation of the dwelling-house, with 
the response very frequently, ' It is one of the doctor's fads.' 

" I am quite sure that many a dying person would again become 
a living one if, when the expected end appears to be approach- 
ing, the unwisely over-anxious friends would not crowd the sick 
room, depriving the invalid of pure atmospheric air, the one 
thing that could restore him to health. 

" Again, often do I see sickly children of well-to-do parent* 
ricketty and tuberculous frgm being shut up in dull close 
niu-series, because they are too respectable to be allowed to run 
about and caper in the public thoroughfares, and they have not 
space to do so at home. 

"I inculcate to mothers of children that the best room in the 
house is only good enough for the nursery, but I find the best 
room is what they call the drawing-room, kept dark lest the 
furniture should be spoiled, dreary and smelling fusty; the guest 
room on festive occasions. 

" I have no doubt that in time your exertions for the promotion 
of Sanitation will have the desired effect, but it takes a great 
many drops of water to wear away a stone. For twenty years I 
have been preaching on horse-shoeing and the repair of country 
roads, but I believe, so far, I have made few converts. 

" As regards stable management, I have kept many horses with 
scarcely any sickness. I insist on free admission of air, night 
and day, with plenty of woollen clothing in the winter, and each 
fine day in the summer the horses not at work sj^end their time 
in the paddock." 

Professor E. D. Mapother, M.D., late Prof, of Physiology and 
Hygiene, R. Coll. Surgeons, Ireland, wrote : 

" It is much to be desired that this channing chapter in 
Physiology and Hygiene shall be followed by another in which 
remedial measures shall be as forcibly advanced. 

" Having found adults quite unmindful of the harm resulting 
from rebreathed air and of other breaches of obvious natural laws, 
I have alone depended on the teaching of the pupils of primary 
schools in these ^dtal points. The evil from want of ventilation 
which has lately come prominently before me is want of sleep ; and 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 55 

irrespective of temperature or grimminess, air should be let into 
every bedroom by an inch or two of the window." 

Mr. Francis Warner, M.D., wrote : 

" Your paper in the Contemporary Review will, I hope, lead to 
a better appreciation of the importance of good air. I have 
already visited 106 schools for the purpose of examining the 
physical condition of the pupils. Bad air is often a cause of 
mental exhaustion ; overcrowding may effect this, so may the want 
of personal cleanliness, without which, ventilation in the school- 
room is ineffectual. 

" I have been much impressed in visiting certain districts in 
London, with conditions in the children apparently, in part, 
dependent upon want of general illumination, i.e. in the neigh- 
bourhood of large block buildings and warehouses — but this matter 
is different to investigate. 

" I think that also great noise, as many passing trains, may 
probably affect conditions of growth and brain power. 

" One of the removable causes of chronic exhaustion among 
children is late hours, the effects of M'hich are plainly marked 
in them, and are disastrous in their results. 

" The physical surroundings of our population, and their effects 
upon development and brain power, are most important. Among 
50,000 school children I found some abnormal points in considerably 
over 10 per cent., which points to the urgency of enquiry and 
consideration of conditions of healthy living as well as the rates 
of mortality. 

" I hope you may be able to draw attention to some of these 
matters." 

Sir Dyce Duckworth, M.D., LL.D., wrote : 

" I thank you for your article in the Contemporary Mevietv. I 
have taught and practised all, or much of what you advise, for a 
quarter of a century. 

" 1 am bound to say that as I grow older, I can bear less 
cold fresh air than fonnerly, and you will certainly find the 
same. I generally observe that where scientific men mostly 
congregate the ventilation is worse than elsewhere. This is a 
sad reflection, but it is a true statement. 



56 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

" I cannot agree to some of your pathogenic views. You are 
confident where I should hesitate to tread." 

Mr. Symes Thompson, F.R.C.P., wrote : 

" As Gresham Professor of Medicine, it has been my duty for 
more than 20 years, to expound the principles of Health preserv- 
ation to the * Citizens of London.' 

" I rejoice to know that you have taken up the subject with 
such force and vigour. 

" Every year, with advancing knowledge, new point and 
emphasis is given to the old teaching. 

" For instance, the recent observations on the behavionr of 
tubercle bacilli when exposed (1) to foul air, (2) to pure air, 
(3) to pure air with diffused daylight, and (4) to pure air with 
direct sunshine, demonstrate with a definiteness previously lack- 
ing, the value of air and light in destroying these noxious 
organisms. 

"The evidence collected in your article regarding stable air, 
and the air in cowsheds, is perfectly true, and might easily be 
amplified. It is strange how people will spend freely on the 
ventilation of their stables, whilst entirely neglecting the venti- 
lation of their nurseries and sleeping rooms. 

*' The absence of catarrh at sea is indeed remarkable, as is also 
the frequent presence of catarrh on landing, until acclimatisation 
is established. 

" The frequent relation of acute pneumonia to impure air is 
now recognised, the chilling of the skin, and consequent arrest of 
excretion being merely an incident in the determination of the 
attack. I have on several occasions been able to arrest the 
fever and other symptoms of pneumonia by sealing the waste 
pipe of bath or sink, through which drain air had previously been 
drawn into the sleeping room. 

"In a recent case of influenza to which I was called in con- 
sultation, four * old maids ' were living in a fusty, frowsy, airless 
house, all windows and registers were firmly closed. On the day 
of my visit one sister had been buried, one had died, the third 
was moribund, and died on the following day, and the fourth had 
profound double pneumonia, and recovery seemed well-nigh hope- 
less. However, after opening the windows, and registers of the 
grates, she recovered ; of the four servants who caught the disease. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 57 

one, an old nurse, died from the same type of pneumonia as her 
mistress. 

" I was called to Mentone to see a case of typhoid fever. 
Dr. Marriott informed me that he had ceased to fear continued 
fevers, since he had adopted the plan of taking out the windows 
of the bedroom, and putting the bed in the middle of the room, 
and thus avoiding all chance of rebreathed air. In our humid 
climate, this plan of treatment is rarely feasible, but the * hyper 
ventilation ' treatment of many forms of chronic disease is of 
unquestionable value." 

Dr. Bower, of Ivel Lodge, Sandy, wrote : 

" I quite agree with all that is said on the subjects of 
ventilation, exercise, and cleanliness. They are matters of im- 
mense importance, and cannot be too frequently and too forcibly 
impressed upon all classes of the community. The article is likely 
to do a great deal of good, and I would like to endorse all that 
has been said by Sir Lyon Plaj-fair and Professor Huxley." 

Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., wrote : 

" I have read your article on Air with much interest, and, like 
you, am a great believer in pure oxygen. I do not, however, feel 
that I can add anything of value to what you have said so well." 

Mr. Tom Smith, F.R.C.S., wrote : 

" I am much obliged to you for sending me your paper, and 
I entirely agree with your main conclusions. 

" If you can purify the polluted air of our houses without 
damage to the inhabitants you will remedy one of the most 
serious exih incidental to civilized life." 

Mr. Thos. Bond, F.R.C.S., Westminster Hospital, wrote : 

" The subject you write on is of great importance, but it 
seems almost impossible to find a satisfactory solution to the 
vexed question of ' ventilation.' 

" In the case of the poor the necessity of keeping out the 
cold, especially in winter, compels them to shut up windows 
and doors, and the architects have not yet found a cheap and 
easy method of keeping out cold and letting in air. 

" The most efficient method at present known to me is the 
system of ventilation by tubes called Tobin Tubes. 



58 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

" If this system were generally carried out and perfected, I 
believe it would bring us nearer to the solution of this vexed 
question than any other method." 

Mr. G. Fielding Blandford, M.D., wrote: 

"With your article on Bad Air all must agree, but it leads 
me on to other questions. Sir Lyon Playfair suggests your 
following it up with another on water, and one on cleanliness,. 
and I would suggest one on cold and one on damp. These two 
are fertile sources of disease, and they are intimately connected 
with the question of bad air, especially among the poor. You 
cannot expect people who have scanty food and coals, to open 
their windows in an English winter. For the same reason they 
bum gas to warm the room and use up the oxygen and poison 
themselves. But the well-to-do classes have not this excuse, and 
ought to read your paper and profit by it." 

Sir J. Sawyer, M.D., Consulting Physician to the Queen's 
Hospital, Birmingham, wrote : 

" The paper entitled ' Bad Air and Bad Health ' is an able and 
popular exposition of a difficult subject, which is second to none 
in its importance to human health, and upon which there is much 
public ignorance. So far as I know, the writers are accurate in 
their chemical, physiological, and physical data, in matters of fact * 
in their opinions, they are in consonance with the teachings of 
medical experience. Oxygen is a food, which we take in breathing, 
which we can only take in that way, which is absolutely essential 
to the structure of our bodies, and it is a food which we cannot 
do without entirely for more than three minutes, without dyin^. 
Much of chronic invalidism is chronic sub-oxidation, and much 
of ill-health which is attributed to ' over- work ' is due to work 
in wrong conditions, and one of the worst of wrong conditions 
is work in stale air. Whenever we doubt about our vitality we 
should doubt about our ventilation. From the discussion which 
this paper should excite I hope there may be evoked an enthu- 
siasm for fresher air, which may result in the better ventilation of 
houses, of sleeping rooms, of public buildings — especially of place* 
of public worship — of railway carriages — especially of those for 
first-class passengers — of workshops, and of those in which dusty 
trades are plied." 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 5^ 



APPENDIXA. 



Quite recently Drs. J. Ilaldane and J. Smith at Oxford have 
raised the question, as regards the chief source of mischief in 
badly ventilated rooms, — is it the increase of carbonic acid, the 
deficiency of oxygen, or the expired organic poisons {Journal of 
Pathology, Oct., 1892, Feb., 1893)? Having performed some 
interesting experiments of a harmless character upon human 
subjects, they seem to have ascertained from them that a large 
excess of carbonic acid in the air was the chief cause of quickened 
respiration ; that a great deficiency of oxygen was also a cause, 
though in a considerably less degree, of quiekened respiration ; 
and that the excess of carbonic acid produced more immediate 
distress than the deficiency of oxygen. Having arrived at these 
results they seem to have founded upon them, and upon the results 
of some experiments upon animals, the conclusion that the effect of 
the organic poisons is of very secondary and but small importance. 
The human experiments are recorded with delightful clearness. 

We now give in short form most of the experiments on human 
subjects on which their conclusions were founded. We do not 
propose to pass any remark upon the experiments on animals. 
As the experimenters themselves are well aware, these experi- 
ments are strikingly at variance with other experiments ; and we 
venture to believe — one of us, be it said, being the victim of 
prejudices upon the subject — that the facts of health and disease 
are a safer guide in this matter than the experiments on animals. 
Unhapi^ily in all civilised countries the larger part of the human 
race is unintentionally performing a whole series of experiments 
upon itself as regards the breathing of impure air ; and an immense 
deal has to be learnt from a closer observation than has yet been 
given of common but slightly differing habits in every-day life. 

The experimenters constructed a small wooden chamber with 
various convenient arrangements. They made it air-tight, and 
they analysed the air at stated intervals during the time that the 
subject of experiment was in the chamber. Of course after a 



-60 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

certain time the air became exceedingly impure, the carbonic acid 
being greatly increased, the oxygen greatly diminished.* 

1. Air vitiated by breathing. The subject remained in the 
chamber until the carbonic acid rose to 3-9 p.c. Results : 
Some ill effects at the time, which ceased on leaving the chamber. 

2. Air still more vitiated by breathing. The subject remained 
in the chamber till the carbonic acid rose to 6*39 p.c, and the 
oxygen was diminished to 13 p.c. Results : Quickened respiration 
(30 per minute) ; headache ; on leaving the chamber headache 
and sickness. Results complicated by question : if food had been 
improperly taken ? When first subject left, a second entered. 
Breathing quickened ; only smelt paint. 

Experiment repeated. Carbonic acid increased to 5*8 p.c. 
Results : Respiration much increased, up to 35 ; pulse slightly 
quickened, 76 ; slight headache, not persisting next morning. 
The observer, who entered, as the first subject left, only smelt 
paint. Results^ after 15 minutes, breathings [p. min.] 30, pulse 96. 

3. Air greatly vitiated by breathing^ but carbonic acid removed by 
chemical means. The subject remained until the oxygen was de- 
creased to 14'7 ; the carbonic acid being kept to a fairly low point 
(•6 p.c.) by chemical means. Results : Respiration quickened 
(30), pulse slightly lowered. No positive discomfort ; slight 
occasional headache, which ceased on leaving ; but " nausea and 
sickness " in evening. Results complicated by question whether 
sickness was due to having been experimented upon during 15 
hours out of 48. The observer who enters has slight tendency 
to quickened respiration ; respiration recorded as 1 1 ('?). 

Repeated. Oxygen falls to 13 p.c, but in this case carbonic 
acid rises to 1'4. Results: Respiration slightly increased (18); 
pulse falls (from 90 to 84) ; temperature of body falls over 2 
degrees, though temperature of chamber rises 1 8 degrees. 

4. A large quantity of pure carbotiic acid artificially introduced 
into the chamber. [In this experiment it was apparently intended 
that the air should be normal except as regards the introduction 
of pure carbonic acid. The air, however, was not normal, as 
the oxygen was at starting 20*4 instead of 208, and fell to 19'8 
before the end of the experiment. Perhaps the chamber itself 

* It is well to remind some readers that ordinary respiration is about 18 
per min., pulse about 70-75. The oxygen in the air should be 20*8 p.c. ; 
aiid the carbonic acid "04 p.c. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 61 

was tainted after previous experiments. At all events the air 
became impure during the experiment in question.] Results : 
Greatly quickened respiration (34) ; in one instance no headache- 
during experiment, and only for short time after experiment ; in 
another instance severe headache during experiment and persisting 
after experiment. 

Experiments were then made by breathing air, the elements 
of which were mixed in different proportions in a bag. 

5. Common air breathed and re-breathed from a bag in highly 
impure state. When carbonic acid reached 10 p.c, and oxygen 
was diminished in proportion, the distress became so great that 
the experiment had to be stopped. 

6. Large quantities of oxygen mixed with common air breathed 
from the bag. When the carbonic acid reached 10 p.c, though 
the oxygen amounted to 58*6 p.c, great distress. The excessive 
quantity of oxygen, therefore, seemed unable to counteract the 
effects of the excessive carbonic acid. 

7. Results of breathing air (1) icith great excess of carbonic 
acid and oxygen diminished in proportion ; and (2) with great 
excess of carbonic acid and great excess of oxygen., compared 
together. Residts : Experimenters seem to have concluded that 
the excess and deficiency of oxygen were comparatively unim- 
portant as regards quickened respiration. No record gi^-en of the 
time in which the breathing was quickened by each kind of air. 

8. Very large quantities of pure carbonic acid., 18'6 p.c, 
breathed for a short time. Results : Experiment had to be 
stopped after 94 (?) and 110 seconds. 

9. Air, with oxygen greatly deficient and carbonic acid chemi^ 
cally removed. Residts : When the oxygen fell to 8'7 p.c. the 
experiment had to be stopped. Subject getting blue in face, but 
no headache, no marked increase in respiration. Another subject 
then breathed the same air. Results : Pulse rose to 131 in 5 
minutes ; respiration to 24. Experiment stopped after 6 minutes. 
The oxygen had fallen to 6-7 p.c. 

10. Effect of two different mixtures — (1) air greatly deficient in 
oxygen and icith great excess of carbonic acid, (2) air greatly 
deficient in oxygen and only a trace of carbonic acid — compared. 
Residts : The air with excess of carbonic acid rapidly produced 
quickened respiration, which was relieved by breathing the air 
which had only trace of carbonic acid. 



•62 BAD AIR AXD BAD HEALTH. 

First of all we think it has to be remarked that the question 
of how much immediate distress is caused by great excess of 
carbonic acid and how much by great deficiency of oxygen 
requires a greater number of experiments, as the subjective 
element counts for so much in this matter. Even from these 
experiments it is plain that different persons, submitted to the 
«ame experiment, were differently affected. We must next remark 
that the experimenters generally subjected the person experimented 
upon to an enormous excess of carbonic acid and an enormous 
deficiency of oxygen, — as they themselves pointed out, far exceed- 
ing any normal excess or deficiency ; that by these enormous 
quantities they were of course able to produce immediate effects ; 
and that they seem disposed to look upon these immediate effects, 
resulting from this enormous excess and deficiency, as having 
•some important bearing upon the question of the organic poisons. 
But have these effects any such important bearing? The net 
result of the experiments upon human beings seems to be that a 
marked physiological effect (quickened respiration, as attested 
■earlier by Angus Smith) follows the breathing of a great excess 
•of carbonic acid, and follows in a much less marked degree a 
great deficiency of oxygen. But this fact, interesting in itself 
and important as it is, like all other physiological facts, seems 
hardly to touch the question of the health effects, which in some 
cases follow quickly iipon the three conditions, — the breathing 
of slightly excessive quantities of carbonic acid, of slightly 
deficient oxygen, and of certain organic poisons ; or those other 
more remote effects which follow the same three conditions, 
when exerting their continuous influence through months and 
years. It seems hardly to affect the question — given a head- 
ache after a night of a crowded imventilated room ; or given 
a case of tuberculosis after years of a sedentary occupation in 
unventilated rooms, — how much is to be put to the account of 
the respective factors — increased carbonic acid, diminished oxy- 
gen, and organic poisons, — to ascertain that carbonic acid, ten or 
twenty times in excess of the carbonic acid in an unventilated 
room, and oxygen, diminished some imits per cent., produce 
in their different degrees quickened breathing and immediate 
distress. Like the related fact, that if the experiments had been 
pushed to a still further point, life itself could not have been 
.sustained, the statement seems to leave the question pretty nearly 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 63 

in the condition in which it was before. It is an interesting 
contribution to the material already collected upon the subject 
to know that quickened breathing is more readily provoked by 
•excess of carbonic acid than deficiency of oxygen ; but it is im- 
possible to claim that such a fact — even when placed in the 
domain that lies beyond controversy — in any sort of manner 
settles what is the permanent mischief, arising from excess of 
carbonic acid, deficient oxygen, or the organic poisons. 

As regards these poisons, the writers occasionally seem inclined to 
throw some doubt upon their existence. In one experiment it was 
observed that on entering the chamber after the subject had been 
shut up in it until the carbonic acid rose to the excessive amount of 
6-39 p.c, that "there was no perceptible odour " to be noticed as the 
next person entered it. This was observed on two occasions by two 
different persons. We do not quite understand the purpose of this 
observation. Is it recorded for the purpose of implying that the 
organic emanations do not ordinarily leave a smell ? But that is 
to challenge a fact that rests on very wide testimony. We think 
that most people who habitually live in rooms with fresh air, and 
accustom themselves to use their power of smell as regards ill- 
ventilated rooms when they first enter them, can have no doubt of 
the painful reality of this smell. It is true that, in the case of 
persons living generally in impure air, their senses are apt to 
become inefficient guides in the matter ; secondly, that the sense of 
smell is so poorly developed in modern life, that it often requires 
training before it can be relied upon as a test-sense ; thirdly, that 
with many persons it varies considerably in power from day to day, 
(generally in some relation with health), as perhaps might be ex- 
pected from its low state of development in present modern life. 
Moreover, there seems in the case of the Oxford experiments to 
have been a special reason why the smell of organic emanations was 
not perceived. In two cases the second subject, who enters as the 
first leaves the chamber, smells the paint on the walls ; and this 
smell may have overpowered or disguised other smells. The paint 
suggests other questions. The door, after being closed, was sealed 
up so as to be air-tight. What was the sealing material used ; had 
it any special smell ? Again, beyond these questions lies a more 
interesting one — when a certain excessive amount of carbonic acid 
and organic emanation is reached, and the oxygen is very largely 
reduced, is the power of smell itself rendered less acute ? Parkes 



64 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

has already observed that when a certain moderate quantity of 
carbonic acid, -09 p.c, is reached (p. 177), the power of smell 
ceases to perceive shades of difference. Parkes also adds " Carnelly, 
Ilaldane^ and Anderson, point out that the test by the sense of 
smell is liable to be influenced by many conditions, and that it not 
infrequently happens that a more overpowering odour is perceptible 
with a small than with a larger amount of carbonic acid" (179). 
We hope that Dr. Haldane will not quarrel with the authorities we 
have cited. Although the recording of the observation — no smell 
but paint — looks a little suspicious, we cannot believe that the 
experimenters desire to challenge the Avidely-observed fact that 
there is a smell to the emanations which come from skin and 
lungs. If it is necessary to make any appeal beyond common daily 
observation w^e may refer to Parkes, who quotes De Chaumont's 
four states of impure air which may be recognised by the smell, — 
each state containing a certain amount of carbonic acid (p. 177). 

By excessive quantities of carbonic acid the experimenters 
produced quickened respiration. Can that fact be taken for a 
single moment as proof that other kinds of physiological dis- 
turbance were not being caused by deficient oxygen, or organic 
poisons, or by that very same excess of carbonic acid ? A man may 
eat some indigestible food; may work longer than he is accus- 
tomed to ; may pass through some agitating scene ; may suffer 
a chill ; and perhaps neither at the moment itself, nor in the 
time that immediately succeeds will there be any plain sign of 
the mischief that has been done, and the effects of which may be 
accumulating against him. But on the strength of these experi- 
ments (and of the animal experiments) the experimenters write 
(185) — we cannot help thinking without sufficient ground — " the 
immediate dangers from breathing air highly vitiated by respira- 
tion arise entirely from the excess of carbonic acid and deficiency 
of oxygen, and not from any special poison." We submit 
that this sentence would be safer, if limited as follows : 
" The immediate dangers, as regards the respiration, &c." What 
forms the whole body of immediate dangers we think are as 
yet hardly known ; and it seems probable from certain cases, 
such, for instance, as the black hole of Calcutta, that persons 
may suffer more under close confinement from the organic 
emanations and deficiency of oxygen — for the two are closely 
co-related — than from excessive carbonic acid. This seems at 



BAD AIR AND BAB HEALTH. 65 

least implied by the fact that most of the survivors were ill 
afterwards with putrid fever, which can hardly be put down to 
the direct effects of carbonic acid. In another passage the experi- 
menters write (181): "Our experiments in the chamber afforded 
distinct evidence against the theory that a poisonous volatile 
substance is present in air vitiated by respiration." Are there 
not at least two assumptions in this passage : that the effect of 
these breath-poisons is immediate ; that their effect can be 
separated and distinguished when there is great physiological 
disturbance owing to excessive quantity of carbonic acid or 
excessive deficiency of oxygen ; and that it is safe to form a 
conclusion, founded upon conditions which are violently abnormal, 
as regards conditions commonly existing in every-day life. Again 
they say (186) : "If there be no special poison in air vitiated by 
respiration, it would seem to follow that (apart from the effects 
of heat and moisture and of infection caused by bacteria) the 
air of ordinarily close rooms is only injurious so far as it is 
offensive to the sense of smell. . . If, however, the deleterious 
effects are produced through the nerves of smell, it is evident that 
in order to secure wholesome air, efforts must rather be concentrated 
on the prevention of smell than on mere dilution of the products of 
respiration." It seems difficult to follow this line of reasoning. If 
there is a smell, from what does it come ? It cannot come from 
excessive carbonic acid or (directly) from deficient oxygen. If 
there is a smell, and it is due to putrid particles or volatile poison, 
why is it simply to be hurtful by affecting the nerves of smell ; why 
is it not to be hurtful when inspired ? And if there is such a 
poison, can much be hoped from a continual disinfection of the air 
of our living rooms ? Would that not mean — if the process were 
fairly successful in altering the most hurtful elements in these 
poisons — that we should be condemned to breathe for the rest of 
our lives the altered or partly altered poison+the disinfectant. 
The use of ordinary disinfectants has been described by an un- 
friendly critic as creating one bad smell to overpower another bad 
smell ; and we hardly think that a combination of chemicals with our 
atmosphere will be the best thing to improve it for breathing purposes. 
Before leaving the question of the existence of these organic poisons, 
we wish to add a few remarks of a more general character. (1) In 
ordinary cases — we are not speaking of extreme cases — the effect of 
these organic poisons contained in the breath are slow in their action. 

E 



66 BAD ATR AND PAD HEALTH. 

In many cases they produce an alteration of tissue which is the 
preparation for disease rather than disease itself, as, for example, 
the breathing of vitiated air, which precedes tubercvdosis. It 
may be well to quote a sentence of Angus Smith. After speaking 
about " the overwhelming evidence " as to the hurtful effects of 
bad ventilation, he says : " The senses begin the argument, but 
it takes months or years to show the bad effects of that air which 
they dislike. At the other extremity the vital powers give way, 
and between these two we must have a gradation of effect " (p. 
141). (2) Certain cases of sore throat, which arise either from 
breathing putrid organic particles (or volatile poison), or from the 
presence of various kinds of poison in the system, suggest that the 
sore throat of the common cold is due to some volatile poison or 
putrid organic particles ; thus, some of the symptoms from breathing 
sewer gas which has entered a house — sore throat, slight fever, head- 
ache — have much in common with the severe feverish cold that so 
commonly follows living in impure air ; whilst it might be added, 
the diarrhoea itself, which accompanies this introduction of sewer 
gas into a house, is only a cold, or inflammation, or poisoning, 
with discharge of mucus, of a different region of the same mucus 
membrane from that which is affected in a throat-cold. In the 
same way (as we have pointed out at greater length elsewhere) 
many other forms of sore throat, as in measles, scarlet-fever, 
poisoning from putrid meat, &c., are the results of poison in 
the blood, and therefore again suggest — as in the case of 
sewer gas, just referred to — that the ordinary sore throat or 
cold — which is so largely due to breathing vitiated air — is also 
caused (like these other sore throats) by the presence of its own 
special poison in the blood. Putting the two facts — if they are 
facts — together : that in air vitiated from breathing there are 
putrid organic particles (or volatile poison), and that colds, which 
are generally produced from living in bad air, are cases of 
poisoning — if such is the case, as we believe it to be, and as 
we have tried to show that it is — it is not easy to accept 
the suggestion that carbonic acid should be looked on as 
the chief cause of mischief, where ventilation is deficient. 
(3) The reality of these poisons is further attested, — as shewn 
in the text — by various evidence, such as the smell of badly- 
ventilated rooms, the impurities, though very small in amount, of 
water, through which the breath has passed, the test o| " dis- 



BAD AlU AND BAD HEALTH. 6? 

tillation with alkaline permanganate" (Parkes, 142), the evidence 
yielded by sulphuric acid, platinum, and nitrate of silver ; the large 
numbers of bacteria in filthy shut-up and unventilated rooms, — pre- 
sumably because putrid particles supply their necessary food^* ; &c. 

(4) It must not be forgotten that the quickened respiration caused 
by an excess of carbonic acid is a physiological adaptation and 
remedy to meet an unusual — but only, when a certain degree is 
reached, dangerous — state of circumstances. It is not necessarily 
an evil in itself. Exactly the same result is produced when 
violent exercise is taken, and yet we do not look upon the 
quickened breathing in such a case as a sign of grave mischief 
or danger. Of course in either case the process can be pushed 
so far as to produce danger and mischief ; as in the case of a 
hunted animal, who though not caught by the hounds dies after 
the exertion ; or the case of a person who breathes 6, 7, or 8 p.c. 
of carbonic acid out of a bag. But that may happen by pushing 
too far the most blameless physiological process. There is a con- 
siderable chance of a person retiring altogether out of this world 
who undertakes to eat 50 buns at a sitting. We call attention to 
this point, because we think that proving that carbonic acid 
quickens the respiration by no means exhausts the subject-matter. 

(5) The evidence of soda-water factories is, we believe, against 
the belief that carbonic acid is in itself the cause of mischief. 
This evidence — so far as we know — has never been of a very 
precise character ; but there has been a certain amount of evi- 
dence to show that men might breathe, without apparent harm, 
large quantities of pure carbonic acid, considerably larger than 
that found in crowded rooms, where, at the same time, air was 
freely admitted. The inquiries by letter of one of the present 
writers, made some little time ago of the owners of a soda-water 
factory, seemed to confirm this statement (see also Parkes, 157.) 

(6) The analogy of the skin cannot be used as an argument, but, 
admitting that there are breath-poisons, it suggests how important 
is the action of the lungs in this matter. How deadly these 
organic poisons are, in the case of the skin, is shewn by the 
often quoted cases of the man, of whose body during life it was 

* Bacteria are not always found in large quantities when the quantity 
of carbonic acid is high. In a hall — generally kept clean and open and 
fresh — where many people were temporarily collected — the carbonic acid 
would be increased out of proportion to the bacteria. 



68 JBAl) Altl ANlJ BAD HEALXil. 

attempted to take a plaster cast, and of the child who was 
covered with gold leaf. Thus we have two organs — if the 
breath -poisons are admitted — both of which dispose of certain 
minute forms of waste not otherwise got rid of, — waste derived 
from the breaking down of worn-out tissue ; and it is reason- 
able, when, in the case of the one — the skin — we see how 
deadly the poisons are, if by accident retained, that we should 
be led to suspect that the poisons got rid of by the other 
organ must also be powerful for mischief, whenever we are placed 
under conditions unfavourable for their elimination. (7) We ven- 
ture to think that a good deal of the hurtful effect of an undue 
amount of carbonic acid is indirect, and that it sins by increasing 
the effect of the organic poisons. Apart from its direct mischief 
— of whatever kind that may be — its indirect mischief consists 
in aggravating the effect of the waste poisons that are in the 
tissues and in the blood. First, an increase of carbonic acid in 
the air means a decrease of oxygen, and thus the supply of oxygen 
taken in by the lungs is lessened — a fact that must count for 
much as regards the rendering harmless the waste poisons in the 
system ; and, secondly, in proportion as an undue quantity of 
carbonic acid in the air enfeebles the pulse (A. Smith, 216) to 
that extent it diminishes the quantity of blood sent through 
the lungs, and therefore again increases the quantity of poison, 
remaining in the system, which would otherwise have been brought 
by the blood to the Jungs, and thus got rid of. One beat of the 
heart (say, equalling 3 oz. of blood) less per minute means " a 
diminished circulation of many gallons of blood per day," and 
this means a large retention of poison in the system.^ Thus, 
whatever may be the direct mischief caused by an excess of 
carbonic acid in the air, at all events it increases the mischief of 
the waste poisons in the body, by lessening the supply of oxygen, 
both as regards the amount of blood driven through the lungs 
(the circulation being enfeebled) and as regards the actual 
proportion of oxygen in the air that is being breathed, — the pro- 
portion of oxygen in the air being proportionately diminished by 
the increased carbonic acid. We might add that any diminution 
of oxygen in the air of a room probably still further diminishes 

* On the other hand some allowance must be made for quickened respi- 
ration. But does quickened respiration persist where the increase of 
carbonic acid is only slight I' We want observations on this point. 



JBAD AIR AND feAD HEALTH. 6^ 

the supply of oxygen, because as the organic putrid particles in- 
crease, these again diminish the diminished oxygen. Angus Smith 
found that in the neighbourhood of organic coiTuption the pro- 
portion of oxygen in the air was sensibly less — the oxygen being 
taken up presumably in oxidising the putrid particles. (8) Though 
increased carbonic acid quickens respiration, yet other causes, 
producing the same effect, must be taken into account. As 
Professor Foster seems to remark, excess of carbonic acid cannot 
be held responsible for the quickening of the respiration in strong 
exercise, as on analysis it is found that the blood has no such 
excess (see 628, 663) of carbonic acid. It is also important in 
this controversy to remember another statement made by him : 
"The phenomena of asphyxia are in the main due to the former " 
(deficiency of oxygen) ; " the accumulation of carbonic acid in 
the blood has subsidiary effects only" — a statement which we 
think clearly shows that there are poured into the blood waste 
poisons of greater importance in their toxic effect than carbonic 
acid. 



Books referred to. In the text the names of the authors only 
are given, with the number of page referred to. When only the 
page is given, the reference is to the author last named. Where 
two books by the same author are referred to, the name of the 
book, not mentioned in this list, is given in the text. 

Aitken, "Animal Alkaloids"; Beale, ''Slight Ailments"; Blythe, 
"Poisons"; Brown, "The Animal Alkaloids"; Brunton, "Disorders of 
Digestion"; Campbell, "Causation of Disease": Carpenter, "Principles 
of Human Physiology," 7th edit.; Collie, "On Fevers"; Crookshnnk, 
" Manual of Bacteriology"; Foster, "Text-book of Physiology," 7th edit.; 
Fothergill, "Diseases of Sedentary and Advanced Life "; Gautier, " Chiraie 
Applique, etc."; " Health Lectures "; Hermann, " Human Physiology "; 
Kirke, " Handbook of Physiology "; Klein, " Micro-organisms and Disease"; 
"Our Homes," by various writers, Galton, etc. ; Parkes, "Practical Hygiene"; 
Prosser James, " Sore Throat "; Quain, " Dictionary of Medicine"; Ransome, 
" Milroy Lectures " ; Richardson, " Field of Disease"; Russell, "Epidemics, 
&c."; Thorne Thome, " Progress of Preventive Medicine "; Watson, 
"Lectures on Principles and Practice of Physic"; E. Wilson, " Healthy 
Skin." 



70 BAl) AIll AND BAD ttEALTti. 



GLOSSAKY OF TERMS USED. 

Alimentary tract : The food-tube of the body with its expansion (the stomach; 
employed for the reception of food and the earlier preparations which the 
food undergoes for becoming blood. 

Alkaloids : Substances resembling alkalis. Alkalis, such as soda, unite with 
acids to form salts. " They have a soapy feel and taste." The alkaloids 
were supposed to be only vegetable products; they are now known also 
to be animal products. They are often in both cases poisonous. 

Antemia: A defect in the quality of the blood; "a deficiency in the red 
corpuscles." 

Arterial blood: Blood as it comes from the lungs after receiving oxygen and 
giving up carbonic acid. 

Asthma : A difficulty in breathing, " occurring in paroxysms." 

Bacillns : A division, comprising in itself many subdivisions of bacteria, 
which latter word is the wider term. 

Bacteria'. Explained in text, see p. 15. 

Bronchitis : Inflammation of the two large air tubes (bronchi) leading into 
the lungs. These tubes are more or less filled with mucus or some kind of 
secretion, "and thus impede the entrance of air to the lungs." The inflam- 
mation may be of the many small air tubes which descend into the lungs. 

Broncho- pnenmonia : Inflammation of the lung associated with, and generally 
following upon, inflammation of the large air tubes (bronchi) leading into 
the lungs. The inflammatory products of the bronchi help to fill up the 
air-cells of the lungs. 

Bnlloas : Bulla is a vesicle or bag, which is formed by the outer skin and 
filled with watery fluid. 

Capillaries : The minute blood vessels which supply every part of the body 
with blood. They lie between and connect the two systems of vessels, 
those which take the blood from the heart (arteries) and those which return 
the blood to the heart (veins) . 

Carbonic acid : A heavy poisonous gas, which extinguishes flame and destroys 
life when breathed. It is the same as choke-damp. It is produced by 
burning, fermentation, and the breaking down of waste matters in the 
body. See oxygen. 

Congested : When applied to the minute blood-vessels, denotes fulness, the 
blood being torpid and stagnating, and certain of its elements having an 
increased tendency to pass through the walls of the vessels. 

Consumption: (Phthysis) generally applied to lung-consumption. It is a 
wasting disease, in which the lung may be consolidated or filled up "by 
various kinds of growths and exudations" {i.e. escape of matters from the 
diminutive blood vessels in the lungs) ; or may be " occupied by cavities " 
of very varying sizes (see Quain), — such cavities in extreme cases eating 
out the lung substance, and leaving a mere empty bag. 

ConrtUsions : A strong muscular movement, affecting a large number of 
muscles at the same moment, connected with the respiratory apparatus. 

Corijza : Cold in the head. 

Diphtheria : A contagious disease in which an exudation of bad character is 
poured out on various parts of the back of the mouth, the wind-pipe, &c., 
generally forming a false membrane. 

Enteric feeer : Another name for typhoid. 

Erysipelas : An inflammation, the products of which can convey the same 
inflammation to other parts. Often affects the skin. 



BAT) ATR AXD TAD HEALTH. 7l 

Gland : Generally denotes an organ composed of blood-vessels, lymph -vessels, 
nerves, secreting cells, &;c. These secreting cells separate from the blood 
certain elements, and from these elements compound and store various sub- 
stances required for the use of the body, such as saliva, gastric juice, &c. 

Gnaiimr^nesirly 15| grains (Troy) . 24 grammes make 1 ounce (Avoirdupois). 

Intestine : That part of the food-tube or food-canal which extends from the 
stomach downwards. The useful part of the food — having been subjected 
to various processes — is absorbed into the lymph -vessels and blood-vessels 
to form lymph and blood, — the useless part being rejected. 

Kilogr(X')n)ne=?Mgh.i\Y more than 2-^^ lbs. (Troy). 

Kreatin : Probably, one of the earlier forms of the waste of muscle after- 
wards changed into urea. 

Li rer : A very important organ which purifies the blood ; acts upon and 
renders harmless hurtful matters before they pass into the general circula- 
tion ; assists digestion by pouring bile into the intestine ; stores food in the 
form of fat or animal starch, thus supplying the system with sugar as 
required ; and probably turns certain forms of waste into urea. 

Zffnf/ : An organ with innumerable air-cells in which the air taken in at the 
mouth and descending the air tube (wind-pipe) is brought into close neigh- 
bourhood with the blood. The air and the blood are only separated from 
each other by the thin membrane of the air-cells and the wall of the minute 
blood-vessels which are imbedded in the wall of the air-cells. Through 
these membranes oxygen passes to the blood, and carbonic acid from the 
blood to the air. The carbonic acid is breathed out; the oxygen breathed in. 

Lymphatic vessels : Carry the lymph, a colourless liquid, which helps to make 
blood. Are found all over the body. 

Metre=3 feet 3f inches. 

Microbe : Generally used now as another term for bacteria. 

Micro-organisms : A term embracing the minute forms of life, whether plant 
or animal in their nature. 

Nitrogen : A gas which dilutes the oxygen of the air. It is an element in all 
forms of animal and vegetable life. It is not poisonous, but when breathed 
cannot support life ; nor can it preserve the flame of any burning body 
placed in it. 

Nitrous oxide : A gas formed by a combination of oxygen and nitrogen, used 
as an anaesthetic. 

Organic substances : Are substances produced by living things, animal or 
vegetable. 

Oxidised : Acted upon by or combining with oxygen. In the great majority 
of cases, combustion is oxidation, or the union of some element of the 
thing burnt with oxygen. 

Oxggen : One of the gases in the air, on which all ordinary cases of combus- 
tion depend. When wood, coal, &c., are burnt, oxygen combines with 
the carbon of the wood, and in doing so, produces heat and light, and 
forms carbonic acid gas. When it is breathed into the blood, it passes 
into the tissues and "burns" up, — i.e., combines with, cei'tain elements 
of the waste matters. 

Ozone : A condensed form of oxygen, possessed of "intensely oxidising 
powers," and, therefore, a very valuable agent in destroying unwholesome 
substances. Exists in pure air, and can be produced by electrical discharges. 

Feriostemn : A membrane surrounding the bones. 

Fharynx : The cavity at back of the mouth which opens into the food-tube 
leadings to the stomach, 



72 BAD AIR AXD BAD HEALTH. 

Tlagne : A fever accompanied by inflammation of the lymphatic (which see) 
glands, and of a tissue below the skin. Once extended over all Europe. 

Pneinnonia : An inflammation of the lung in which certain elements of the 
blood pass from the tiny blood-vessels and fill the air-cells of the lungs. 

Fuerpcral : Connected with child-bearing. 

Pulmonary : Connected with the lungs. 

Pas: **A product of inflammation." Certain contents of the blood-vessels 
escape from the vessels, and, in combination with the white cells of the 
blood form pus. 

Putrefaction : A decomposition of animal or vegetable matter, by the growth 
or action of extremely minute plants, called bacteria and found in earth, 
air, and water. Freezing arrests the growth of these minute plants. 

Relapsing fever : Or hunger fever. It was first distinguished this century 
from typhus and typhoid fevers, with which it has much in common. 
It specially attacks the underfed. Is very contagious, and has a 
tendency to return (relapsing) "an indefinite number of times" after 
short intervals. 

Septic : Connected with putrefaction. 

Scrofula : A constitutional disease in which the glands develop in the later 
stages '* a white soft cheesy matter mixed with a thick pus." 

Spasmodic croup : Croup is an affection of the air-tube (trachea) and the upper 
part of it (larynx) which has the vocal chords. This tube takes air from 
the mouth down towards the lungs. A false membrane is apt to be formed 
on the affected part. The spasms affect the aperture which exists between 
the cartilages placed across the top of this air-tube. 

Spleen : An organ in the left half of the body ; has no duct (canal) of its 
own like the liver ; manufactures no juice. Is believed to purify the blood, 
arresting and destroying old worn-out blood-corpuscles. 

Tract : Used to denote part or region. 

Trismus : A form of lock-jaw in infants. 

Tuberch : A growth in certain tissues, the product of a specific bacillus. It 
is found in many different parts of the human system ; but when only 
found in one part, or localised, it is generally in the lung ; it commences so 
as only to be visible microscopically ; after a certain growth it forms a 
nodule or lump of diseased matter. 

Typhoid'. A "continued" fever, i.e., not placed amongst those fevers which 
have intermissions or those classed as eruptive. Marked by rose-coloured 
rash and ulcers in the intestines. 

Typhus : A *' Continued" fever (see Typhoid). Marked by great prostration, 
"cerebral (brain) depression," and dusky rash. Generally caused by over- 
crowding. 

Urea : Is one important form of the waste which is always going on in human 
tissues. It is that part of the waste which contains nitrogen and which is 
removed from the blood by the filtering action of the kidneys. It is a 
solid, but dissolves readily in water. It is probably formed in the liver 
from antecedent forms of waste which are changed into simpler forms 
of waste. 

Zymotic fevers : Generally employed now to denote certain fevers which are 
communicated ' ' by matter derived from the human body (as in small 
pox), or from the earth (as in ague)." The term at one time covered 
other diseases which in some points resemble the process of fermentation 
(zume Gr. ferment). [mercury press, bwforo. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 



APPENDIX B 



73 



A medical friend writing on the subject, says : 

" There is no doubt that limited and stagnant air is bad ; that it 
depresses the bodily energy and concentrates contagion. And you 
shew abundantly that certain diseases vary inversely with the supply 
of fresh air. But when we ask how bad air acts, we have to be very 
cautious in answering. Physiology is a shifting science ; many of its 
facts are but half-facts, and nearly all its conclusions but temporary 
theories. . . . There is, however, no doubt that pure air and plenty 
of it is the treatment for influenza ; and I believe that much of the 
debility — though influenza is in itself a disease that leaves debility — 
which follows it, is due to the shocking way in which people poison 
themselves with bad air during and after an attack." 

From Professor M. Foster, Cambridge : — 

" I have been very much tied of late and have only just now been 
able to read your pamphlet. There is very much in it with which I 
agree, but it is almost impossible without writing almost a treatise to 
enter into details. I quite agree with you that in a well regulated 
economy the mere transference of blood from the skin to the internal 
organs ought not of itself to cause mischief, and the fact that cases of ex- 
posure to cold, quite apart from the intervention of microbes, give rise to 
disease is to be explained by something which we may call ' poisons ' 
in the blood. The matter however seems to me too complicated to 
allow, with our present knowledge, a simple explanation. We must 
remember that, even in perfect health, the blood is full of ' poisons ' — 
indeed ' health ' is, from one point of view, the result of the nice 
adaptation of the effects of these poisons. Whether, when cold to the 
skin seems to cause a bowel attack, the result is due to the transferred 
blood being bad, or to the bowels, owing to their condition, being 
unable to cope with the extra supply of blood, is to my mind at 
present a problem. We must go steadily on working these things 
out. I am certainly more and more impressed with the view that we 
physiologists know very little about the functions of the skin. I'm 
sure it does many more things than we at present dream of. May 
not the ill effects of vitiated air have more to do with the skin than 
the lungs ? " 

" By the way that estimate of mine about the heart's work is pur- 
posely put as a very high one. The daily work of the heart of an 
average man is distinctly less," 



74 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

Mr. R. Thorne Thorne, M.D., C.B., writes :— 

" I am much obliged to you for a copy of your interesting article. 
If, as you suggest, it may contain ' heresies,' I can only say that you 
have contrived to mask them under a great array of facts and sound 
truth. You will see from the enclosed, that I approached the same 
subject in 1891, urging as regards one disease at least the imperative 
importance of living in a moving air and under circumstances admit- 
ting of abundance of light." 



Mr. Mortimer Granville, M.D., writes : — 

• " Bad air, I take it, is air bad in itself, and has its badness aggra- 
vated by being made the medium for the dissemination of other bad 
things. The ' bad things ' of which I am, at. the moment, particularly 
thinking are the wretched 'microbes.' No one who has worked much 
at practical bacteriology can fail to have been struck with the absur- 
dity of the accepted theory of ' disinfection.' I do not deny that if 
you fire a maxim gun into space you may hit something ; but when it 
is remembered that the atmosphere of any ordinary room is really a 
highly concentrated medium through the whole of which bacilli and 
cocci capable of generating nearly all of the known diseases exist in 
crowds, it is difficult to set any high value upon the precautionary 
measure of ' disinfection.' The name of the enemy is Legion, and the 
mortality resulting from the most vigorous and sustained fire we can 
keep up on his heterogenous mass of forces is very small. To illustrate 
the fact that microbes take a lot of killing, let me tell you a laboratory 
story. The year before last I was greatly interested in an endeavour 
to discover ' the reason why ' of some success I seemed to have obtained 
with papain administered in a certain combination for the cure of 
cancer. I have since found reason to believe that the post hoc was 
not the propter hoc of the particular hoc I was then thinking about ; 
but that is a digression. In the course of my search for the so-called 
papain bacillus — which I now believe to be an alter ego of the bacillus 
subtilis — I boiled an infusion of papain and thereby killed ofi" the 
parent bacilli, but behold in thirty-six hours I had a new crop even 
more vigorous than the first. This was repeated more than three 
times. with the same result ; and finally I succeeded in staining the 
last generation blue and kept them alive under my microscope for six 
weeks. Now if three boilings only issue in the production of a crop 
of bacilli so vigorous and light-hearted as to live six weeks under the 
ignomony of being stained blue, what sort of success are we likely to 
get in the extermination of a hardy race of disease disseminators by 
firing small globules of carbolic acid or any other noxious material 
into their midst % Simply as Voltaire said about the interchange of 
ideas between speakers of the Basque tongue — ' Mais je n'en crois rien.' 
The only possible method of dealing effectively with the germs of 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 75 

disease is the London policeman's remedy for obstruction, — moving 
them on. Plenty of fresh air, a healthy contempt of ' draughts ' and 
admission of winds, even, if possible, of Kingsley's favourite ' north- 
easter ' ! If a tuberculous lung-cripple has passed a few hours in 
any room you may be sure that the walls and floors are dusted over 
with the bacilli of tubercle. So with all diseases. We never enter any 
home, or, for that matter, any crowded thoroughfare, without being 
peppered with ' seeds of disease ' ; and almost every breath we draw is 
full of them. Happily there is an army of Phagocytes maintained 
''for defensive purposes only ' within us. The food of that army is 
fresh air. Supply it bountifully, and you do more to keep off ' bad 
health ' than by any device the art of man has discovered under the sun. 
Did I say ' under the sun V If only we knew how much those three 
little words mean we should think more kindly of the old Persian 
Sun-worshipper, if we did not incontinently lay aside some of the pride 
of our higher religious culture and enlightenment and bow our own 
heads as reverently and with as loyal devotion as he bowed his head." 

Mr. J. Clement Dukes, M.D., Sunnyside, Rugby, writes : — 

" Your pamphlet seems to me to be calculated to do a vast amount of 
good by calling attention to the fact of the deleterious effect of re- 
breathing pre-breathed air. It has never yet been realized, even by 
intelligent people, that it is just as nasty and injurious to re-intro- 
duce into the system the serial refuse given off from the body, as it 
would be to re-introduce the liquid or solid excretions, yet this is 
perfectly true. If you can persuade people of the fact, you will have 
effected a great work." 

Mr. J. Haldane, M.D., 11, Crick Road, Oxford, March 14th, 1894, 
writes : — 

" I beg to thank you for the pamphlet by Mr. Wager and yourself 
which you kindly sent me, and for the offer of an opportunity of 
replying shortly to your criticisms. The paper has interested me 
greatly, quite apart from what you say at the end of it as to our 
experiments. I entirely agree with you as to the importance to the 
community of the whole subject. However doubtful I may feel as to 
some of the explanations put forward, and backed by authority and 
evidence, in the course of the paper, I cannot doubt that from some 
cause or other disease and death are constantly associated with the 
constant breathing of vitiated air. 

" Your summary of our experiments is so clear and fair that I do 
not think I could add anything to it beyond calling more attention to 
the negative side of our results, and emphasizing the fact that never, 
even in experiments on animals lasting over twelve days, could we 
observe any ill effects produced by air vitiated by respiration to the 
extent of not more than three or four per cent, of carbonic acid, I 



76 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

should like, however, to make a few remarks on your criticisms (pp 
62-69) with regard to the bearing of our experiments on the questions 
discussed in your paper. 

" We do not wish to throw any doubt on the existence of traces of 
volatile organic matter in normal expired air ; but so far as we could 
obtain evidence this organic matter does not act as a poison. Our 
experiments strongly support the conclusion that the ill effects of 
breathing air very highly vitiated by respiration are due to excess of 
carbonic acid and deficiency of oxygen, and to no additional volatile 
poison. Moreover these effects are only produced by air vitiated to a 
much higher extent than is ever the case in ordinary rooms. We lay 
special stress on the experiments on animals, inasmuch as it was 
possible to make upon them far more thorough and prolonged observa- 
tions than upon ourselves. 

" In judging this question it must be borne in mind that the ill 
effects associated with living in vitiated air may be due to a number 
of other causes besides the vitiation of such air by the products of 
respiration. Among these causes we have emphasized, firstly, infection 
by bacteria, and secondly, the sensory impressions produced by evil- 
smelling air. The bacteria do not originate from the lungs or air- 
passages ; nor, as a rule, does more than a small part of the unpleasant 
smell. The presence of both bacteria and smell is chiefly due to want 
of cleanliness, and can in most cases be far more effectually prevented 
by increased cleanliness, both of persons and rooms, than by increased 
ventilation. 

" One of the chief practical outcomes of our investigations was thus 
once more to emphasize the importance of cleanliness, by which we 
mean the prevention of any accumulation of dirt, and not the mere 
application of disinfectants. 

" In conclusion I must freely admit the existence of an unexplained 
conflict of evidence as regards the existence or non-existence of a 
volatile organic poison in expired air. We are inclined to think 
that there were sources of fallacy in the experiments {e.g., those quoted 
at p. 18) which appeared to give an opposite result from our own, but 
this point has still to be cleared up." 

We wish to submit certain considerations as regards the letter 
which Dr. Haldane has been good enough to send us, asking him at 
the same time to excuse occasional details — which are of the A. B.C. 
order — and explanations of terms, for the sake of those leaders who are 
only able to give a small amount of time to these subjects. 

(1). We believe that the ordinary circumstances, familiar to all 
of us, of unventilated rooms cannot at present be satisfactorily 
explained on the theory that the organic emanations are of small 
importance. We believe we are correct in stating that a shut-up 
bedroom, where all attention is given to cleanliness, both as regards 
the person using it, and the room itself, is disagreeable and offensive 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 77 



to anyone entering it from the fresh air in the morning ; and that an 
un ventilated room, clean in itself, and filled only with persons, careful 
as regards personal cleanliness, becomes very offensive after a certain 
time. We also believe that the rapid increase in the offensiveness of 
an unventilated room, filled by an ordinary gathering of persons, is 
opposed to the supposition that the offensive odour is simply or 
principally due to dirty clothes and want of personal cleanliness. 
We have no doubt that the evil smell of a room filled with persons, 
who are careless on the subject of cleanliness, is worse than the 
smell of a room filled by persons careful in this matter ; but is not 
this bad smell itself — so far as it arises from the clothes — principally 
owing to the previous saturation of the clothes by these very ex- 
halations from the skin 1 Does not uncleanliness largely consist in 
negligence on this very point 1 In clothes merely stained by soil, &c., 
there would be no bad smell of the kind which makes a crowded room 
offensive, but there is a peculiar smell in clothes, in which a person has 
often perspired, and which have not been freely exposed to the air. 
We get a piece of indirect evidence on the subject by the warnings 
given that rheumatism is favoured by wearing clothes which have 
often received the perspiration of the skin, and have not been properly 
exposed to the air. In both cases, both when clothes, in which the 
wearer has often perspired, check the action of the skin and favour 
disease, and when they produce an offensive smell, must we not look 
upon the effect as produced by emanations from the skin 1 To what 
other sufficient cause can we attribute it ? 

(2). It may be well here to touch upon some of the statements 
made and evidence collected as regards these organic emanations from 
lungs and skin, (a) As regards the lungs, — Professor M. Foster says 
(552) : " When the expired air is condensed by being conveyed into a 
cooled receiver, the aqueous product is found to contain organic matter, 
which, from the presence of micro-organisms, introduced in the inspired 
air, is very apt rapidly to putrefy." Carpenter says that the fluid 
from the lungs holds also " some animal matter which from the 
enquiries of Dr. R. A. Smith (Phil. Maga., xxx., 478) would appear to 
be an albuminous substance in a state of decomposition " (f Carpenter 
383). " A small quantity of ammonia is usually but perhaps not 
always thrown off." . . . Ransome estimates that an 

amount of ammonia representing about three grains of organic 
matter are eliminated by an adult man in twenty-fours hours."* 

[■^NoTE. — In Dr. Ransome's interesting paper it is stated that he 
found (using the water process of Wanklyn and Chapman) that out of 
12 diseased persons, urea was present in the breath in the case of 3, 
(2 kidney disease, 1 diptheria) ; that in disease the total ammonia in 

f In our references we have not distinguished between a^uthors and their 
editors. Quotations arc rnade under the names of the authors. 



78 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

the breath varies considerably ; that in certain cases it is as low as 
half the total ammonia found in health ; in other cases of kidney 
disease it rises largely, being, in the cases he examined, in one case 
double, in another case more than double the healthy average, — which 
healthy average he puts at 0*2 gramme, or 3 grains in twenty- 
four hours ; that in healthy persons the amount of free ammonia in 
the breath varies considerably, but that, as regards the total ammonia, 
there was "a remarkable uniformity;" and that the air of a railway 
carriage which was shut up (except ventilators) for fifteen minutes, 
with eight persons in it, was " strongly charged both with ammonia 
and organic matter-" He adds the important remark that although 
3 grains or 0.2 gramme of ammonia may seem a small quantity in 
twenty-four hours, " when it is remembered that the most impure 
water (examined by Wanklyn and Chapman) only contained 0.03 of 
organic matter per litre, it will be allowed that there is ample quantity 
to permit of putrefaction, and to foster the growth of the germs of 
disease." Ransome puts the moisture of the breath as yielding about 
10 oz. of water in the twenty -four hours. As 10 oz. equals 7 of a litre, 
we should have in the worst drinking water 0.03 gramme of organic 
matter in one litre ; in the water of the human breath 0.2 gramme in 
7 of a litre. It is right, however, on this important question to keep 
back no fact, whatever may be the theory which it seems to favour. 
M. T. Lemaire {Comptes Eendus, Oct. 14th, 1867) asserts that the 
putrefaction that takes place in water that results from the breath, 
is not in consequence of organic matter, but depends upon the de- 
velopment of infusoires coming from the surrounding air, and from 
the mouth (le dep6t qui s'est form6 . . . tient au developpement 
d'infusoii-es provenant de Fair ambiant et de la bouche). He states 
that if the mouth and throat are cleansed first by water and tartaric 
acid (2 p.c.) and then by pure water, and then air is breathed in through 
the nose, the breath that is breathed out through the mouth from the 
lungs (care being taken to avoid any saliva) will not putrefy, if kept in 
a bottle with glass stopper. For reasons given above we hardly think 
that statement will stand. There are several questions to ask, and 
several things to take into consideration as regards such an experiment.] 



Lossen estimates a much smaller quantity, — '014 grain. Wiederhold 
found chlorides of sodium and ammonium, uric acid, and urates of soda 
and ammonia. Carpenter goes on to point out that when tainted breath 
cannot be refened to decayed teeth, ulcerations in the air passages, 
diseased lungs, (fcc, "it must result from the excretion of odorous 
matter . . from the pulmonary surface. He also says that "some vola- 
tile organic compounds, which communicate an odour to the breath, are 
also eliminated by the lungs." On the other hand (see note p. 383) 
he states that Bachl — unlike other observers — was unable to find any 
traces of amihonia excreted by the lungs ; whilst Schenck states 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 79 

that a small quantity of ammonia is excreted from the lungs of dog, 
rabbit, and guinea-pig. Hermann writes : " Traces of ammonia are 
also excreted in the process of respiration (Thiry) but apparently in 
pulmonary respiration only (Schenck)." Ransome (71) found micro- 
scopically in the aqueous vapour of the breath " epithelial scales and 
other objects ; " and also found that only one half of the amount of 
organic substance is in the breath of those suffering from lung disease 
as compared with the breath of healthy persons, — the difference being 
explained by the greater quantity of mucus excreted in illness which re- 
tains this organic substance. Landois and Stirling state (215) : " An 
excessively small quantity of nitrogen is added to the expired air 
(Regnault and Reiset)." Segen found that all the nitrogen taken in 
the food could not be otherwise accounted for, and " assumed that a 
small part of it was given off in the lungs." They state (216) : "A 
very small quantity of ammonia is found in the expired air — 0*0204 
grains in twenty -four hours. It is probably derived from the blood." 
They add : " The toxicity of the exhalations from the lungs of animals 
described by Brown-Sequard has not been confirmed by other ob- 
servers ; " but again (231) : " To this (carbonic acid given off) must 
be added a certain quantity of organic matter which is extremely 
deleterious to health. While the C O 2 (carbonic acid) diffuses readily 
and is easily disposed of by opening the windows, this is not the case 
with the organic matter, which adheres to clothing, curtains, and 
furniture ; hence to get rid of it, a room, especially a sleeping apart- 
ment, requires to be well aired for a long time, with a free admission 
of sunlight. . . The nature of the organic matter is not precisely 
known, but some of it is particulate, consisting of epithelium, fatty 
matters, and organic vapours from the lungs and mouth. It blackens 
sulphuric acid, and discolourises a weak solution of potassic per- 
manganate. As a test, if we expire through distilled water, and this 
water be set aside for some time in a warm place, it will soon become 
foetid." Writing in 1847 Lewis Thompson finds rather more than 
three grains of bicarbonate of ammonia " constantly exhaled " per 
twenty-four hours from lungs of healthy persons (Philosoph Maga., 
XXX.) Dr. Cornelius Fox (232) quotes from Dr. Ransome's paper "on the 
organic matter of human breath in health and disease " (Manchester 
Philos. Society, Feb. 22, 1870) the statement — already referred to 
— that ten ounces of the fluid condensed from human breath would 
yield about three grains of organic matter — " a quantity sufficient to 
make the fluid highly decomposable ; " and later he says (301) : " M. 
Lemaire finds not only in the air that passes from the lungs, but also 
in the perspiratory fluid, abundant indications of animal and vegetable 
life" (Comptes Rendus, Oct. 14, 1867). Sir John Simon (II., 450) 
speaks of : " The foulness of air, due to the non-removal of the volatile 
refuse of the human body." Professor Louis Parkes says " it (expired 
air) contains a considerable larger proportion of put refi able organic 
matters than air which is inspired" (197). "The organic matter 



80 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

given off by the skin and lungs varies with the individual and his 
state of health. It consists partly of vapour and partly of suspended 
matters (epithelial and fatty debris) ; it is nitrogenous and oxidisable, 
and very rapidly putrefies. It is also absorbed by hygroscopic sub- 
stances, such as wool, feathers, and moist paper, and is noticeable by 
smell, &c." Speaking of breathing and transpiring, Gal ton says (41) : 
" There is an evolution of ammonia and organic matter. A consider- 
able amount of suspended matter is set free, consisting of epithelium, 
and molecular and cellular matter, in a more or less active condition 
of putrefaction. . . The amount of organic matter has been 
variously estimated but there are hardly any trustworthy experiments 
on record. . As already mentioned this organic matter is highly 
poisonous." Dr. G. Wilson writes (96) : " The organic matter given 
off (from lungs and skin) has never been accurately determined. It 
has a very foetid smell and is but slowly oxidised. It is believed to 
be molecular, and may be said to hang about a room like clouds of 
tobacco-smoke, and, like tobacco-smoke, the odour is difficult to be got 
rid of [in text " off" — misprint ?], even after free ventilation has been 
resorted to. It darkens sulphuric acid, and discolorises solutions of 
potassium permanganate. When drawn through pure water it renders 
it very offensive. It is certainly nitrogenous, and probably in com- 
bination with water, because hygroscopic substances absorb it most 
readily. It promotes the growth of micro-organisms, and milk, meat, 
or other food exposed to it becomes rapidly tainted." He quotes 
Angus Smith, who records 148*4 grains of ammonia (free and 
albumenoid) as found in a bedroom per 1,000,000 cubic feet. Pro- 
fessor Corfield (p. 15) attributes the ill effects of un ventilated rooms 
to " foul, or putrescent, organic matter " that we expire. Dr. A. 
Carpenter (quoted by Dr. Fox, 310) speaks of : " septic matters given 
off from the pulmonary membrane, very manifest in some diseases to 
the sense of smell." In addition to these statements, it may be well 
to recall a few facts, which are evidence of the excreting function of 
the lungs as regards organic matters, and therefore when placed side 
by side with the facts just recorded strengthen the view that the act 
of respiration does not consist exclusively of expiring carbonic acid 
and inspiring oxygen. Carpenter (383) points out how turpentine, 
camphor, alcohol, and other odorous substances may be excreted from 
the lungs ; and he also refers to the rapid way in which the breath 
may be affected when there is digestion trouble and the blood is 
affected by some mal-assimilated matter. In the same way phosphorus 
may be excreted by the lungs ; so also the breath of excessive drinkers 
of alcohol may be luminous. Thus also Fothergill says : " I have 
tasted it (iodine) in the mouth on waking after its local application 
to the knees " (H. 72 ; and in another passage (369) : " Many agents, 
especially the liliacese, are found in the breath after being taken by 
the mouth ; they are thus partly given off by the bronchial membrane " ; 
and we have Professor Beale's statement tliat a bad smell which has 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 81 

been inhaled may be given off some hours later from the respiratory 
tract and perceived in the breath. All these examples seem of impor- 
tance as evidencing the delicate excreting function which the lungs — 
at all events — can perform as regards removing substances from the 
blood. Then we have the evidence as regards the difference in 
character between pure carbonic acid and carbonic acid resulting from 
respiration. Parkes points out (160) that in the case of those who 
survive after very severe confinement in closed places " the symptoms 
are not those of pure asphyxia ... a febrile condition is left 
behind, which lasts three or four days, or there are other evidences 
of affected nutrition, such as boils," &c. Carpenter (393) says : 
" Pettenkofer and Voit found that no discomfort was experienced 
from long exposure to an atmosphere containing ten parts of carbonic 
acid in 1000 parts, providing this had been added to the air in a pure 
state ; but if the same quantity were present as a result of the 
respiration of several people serious inconvenience was soon felt." 
Parkes (157) writes about carbonic acid, that "no effect is produced 
by the air of the room (bath at Oeynhausen) in which the bathers 
remain for 30 to 60 minutes, although it contains a large percentage 
. . [Allusion follows to the l)elief that excessive carbonic acid in the 
air favours disease, which is however rejected by Parkes.] Hirt finds no 
symptoms of chronic poisoning by C O2 (carbonic acid) even in trades 
where acute poisoning occasionally occurs ; " and Professor Foster 
(552) re-affirms the doctrine that air in which pure carbonic acid 
amounts to one per cent, "has very little effect on the animal 
economy " whilst raised to one per cent, by breathing "it is highly 
injurious." Of course it should be said here that this hurtful character 
of air in unventilated rooms, as Professor Foster suggests, in the note 
which he is kind enough to send us, may be partly due to skin respira- 
tion as well as to lung respiration ; and it is much to be hoped that 
Dr. Haldane and Dr. Lorraine Smith may be tempted to continue 
some of their interesting human experiments in order to throw more 
light upon this matter. 

Then we have the indirect evidence, already referred to in 
the -text, which is supplied by the fact that the effects of air 
vitiated by breathing are in many ways analogous to the effects 
produced, when sewer air enters a house, — the likeness of effect sug- 
gesting likeness of cause ; and thus also if we put the two facts 
together that micro-organisms increase with (1) foul emanations ; and 
(2) with l)ad ventilation (micro-organisms increasing with increased 
wall-space in badly ventilated schools, decreasing with increased wall 
space in well-ventilated schools — Ransome 123 — ), we have another 
ground for concluding that bad ventilation = organic emanations ; or in 
other words, that what is expired by the lungs and skin furnish, like 
other foul emanations, those organic putridities which favour the 
bacilli ; and to these two kinds of evidence we may ,add the third 
kind, that what are commonly called the zymotic fevers are favoured 



82 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

by human exhalations as they are favoured by the air from sewers or 
other foul places. Carpenter (394) writes impressively : " It is 
impossible ... to hesitate for a moment in the conclusion, that 
the fatality of epidemics is almost invariably in precise proportion to 
the degree in which an impure atmosphere loaded with putrescent 
miasmata may afford a nidus wherein a zymotic poison undergoes a 
marked increase in quantity and intensity, the putrescent exhalations 
from the lungs and skin of the living subject being at least as effectual 
in furnishing such a ' nidus,' as are the emanations from f cecal dis- 
charges or other decomposing matters, &c." If this line of reasoning 
is to be rejected, we must then fall back upon the supposition that 
this favouring of infectious diseases in overcrowded dwellings is due 
either to slight increase of carbonic acid, or slight decrease of oxygen, 
or to a general want of cleanliness. Can these explanations be looked 
upon as sujUcient '? 

So also with the skin : In addition to what is generally stated in 
the text-books as regards the normal organic emanations from the 
skin, there is much evidence to shew the high capacity of the skin to 
take on the most active excreting functions when necessary. A few 
words first of all as regards the nol'mal function. The sweat, con- 
sisting of two kinds, says Professor M. Foster (695) is excreted by two 
kinds of glands, the sebaceous and the sweat-glands, the sebaceous 
glands excreting " fats and fatty acids " and as it appears " some form 
or forms of proteids ;" "we have reason to think that the sweat-glands 
secrete in small quantity some forms of fat and especially volatile fatty 
acids." Professor M. Foster's words are also significant as regards 
those cases where any substance like varnish prevents the action of 
the skin. The symptoms " seem to be due in part to pyrexia or fever 
possibly caused by the retention within or re-absorption into the blood 
of some of the constituents of the sweat, or by the products of some 
abnormal metabolism, [irregular formation of substances in the body], 
and in part to a dilation of the cutaneous vessels " (skin blood-vessels) 
— this dilation resulting in great loss of heat, and affording in itself, 
we think, evidence that it is the retention of poisonous substances 
which is producing the mischief, — the flow of blood to the surface 
being the natural remedial effort to get rid of these poisons by the action 
of the skin as well as to divert them from the internal organs. Car- 
penter (490) says of perspiration : " The acidity often observed appears 
to be due to decomposition and to the presence of certain volatile 
acids, &c." Amongst the constant constituents are fat, urea, and 
various volatile fatty acids. These are products of excretion, being 
separated from the blood by the sweat glands and must be distin- 
guished from what simply transudes from any tissue. In disease, 
albumin, uric acid, biliary colouring matter, and various acids and 
other substances which have been taken with the food, may be ex- 
creted." So Fothergill states (H. 62) that urea is excreted by the 
skin not only under unhealthy but also under healthy conditions ; 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 83 

that it is found in the sweat of horses ; that when the skin is very 
active a less amount of urea is execreted by the kidneys ; and again 
that arsenic is eliminated by the skin as it is by the kidneys, intestinal 
canal, &c. (71) ; so also we have those remarkable instances in which 
the skin comes to the rescue of other eliminating organs when these 
are disabled or overtaxed. Thus as regards cases of kidney disease 
Carpenter writes (494) : " Leube in particular has shewn that in 
certain affections of the kidneys the skin excretes urea phosphoric acid 
and chlorine in excess," just as we have the converse fact, that when 
the action of the skin is lost (Fothergill, H. 438) " we have great 
hypersemia (excess of blood) of the kidney with increased functional 
activity." Of the active character of the excreting function of the 
skin at moments of disease there are many interesting examples. 
Thus in occasional cases of gout the skin excretes uric acid to so large 
an extent that " it is covered every morning with what is popularly 
called 'chalk'" (M. Granville, 41); so Fothergill writes (H. 62, 
quoting H. Wood) : " The skin excretes urea freely during the ad- 
vanced stages of Bright's disease, . . the urea in renal disease may 
even form a distinct crystalline powder on the skin . . " ; so also we 
are told that : " The passage of a urinous fluid from the skin has been 
frequently observed in cases where the renal secretion was scanty ; 
and the critical sweats by which attacks of gout sometimes terminate 
contain urates and phosphates in such abundance as to form a powdery 
deposit on the surface. It has lately been ascertained that in warm 
climates urea is an element of the perspiration of even healthy persons" 
(Fothergill, H. 57, quoting Carpenter, quoting Landerer) ; and thus 
both the kidneys and the skin excrete bile when the blood is over- 
charged with that substance, just as the gastro-intestinal canal on 
occasions can relieve the kidneys by excreting a urinous fluid (for 
other examples see Fotliergill, H. 57). We also get examples of great 
functional activity on the part of the skin in the profuse perspirations 
which accompany lung disease, and which are said to have a delilitating 
effect owing to the loss of salts from the blood, but probably also bring 
great relief ; so too we have a " sour perspiration " which with " the skin 
is bathed " in acute rheumatism (Fothergill, H. 69). Acting upon 
the knowledge of these facts, we see our doctors constantly turning 
this function of the skin to the advantage of the patient. When 
azotised waste (waste containing nitrogen which should have been got 
rid of by the kidneys) is causing mischief by its presence in the blood 
stream, it is sought to obtain depuration of the blood by provoking 
the skin to action (Fothergill, 439). So Beale writes (Liver, 204) : 
" By sweating, excited by heat or medicine, noxious matters that have 
been accumulating in the blood may be removed . . " ; so as regards 
acute kidney disease, he (U. D., 191) recommends sweating and the 
hot air bath; so also he writes (116): " When perspiration is sup- 
pressed, the bladder sometimes becomes irritable ; " so algo in the case of 
one specitic poison a hot climate and hot baths are found very helpful 



84 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

(Fothergill, 493), or in other words an increased excretion of the skin ; 
so in congestion of the liver it is sought to promote the action of the skin 
(Fothergill, H. 149); so the common connection between taking a chill 
and upset of the liver and the evil effects of long continued east winds, 
of which Fothergill gives. an interesting example, offer indirect evidence 
as to the healthy condition of the liver being maintained by the normal 
excreting action of the skin, after due allowance is made for direct 
chill of the liver by insufficient clothing ; so again in some cases of 
anaemia, resulting from a defiled blood-stream, " promoting the action 
of the skin " prepares the way for other remedies (see Fothergill, H. 
67) ; and so also " in bronchitis great relief is experienced when the 
skin acts freely."* In referring to these examples we admit quite 
readily that all these facts only supply indirect evidence ; but they 
seem to point clearly enough in the direction that it is to organic 
emanations, — to that which is excreted and that which transudes 
from skin and lungs — that we must look for the cause of the hurtful 
character of the air where persons live in closed places. f 

We think that we might add to these considerations the case of 
certain affections of the skin itself — these affections being "so notoriously 
associated with imperfect elimination, or, &c." (Fothergill, 73). We 
find these affections associated with digestive trouble (490), and the 
presence of "effete products" in the blood, suggesting — at all events to 
those who are inclined to see in most forms of disease remedial efforts 
of nature — that in these cases the skin is being used, not without 
suffering to itself, as a means for eliminating poison. "The skin," 
writes Fothergill (491), "has much to do with the elimination of these 

* It is right to say that Fothergill believes that some part of the relief 
is to be attributed to the lowering " of the blood-pressure in the arteries " 
"by the refilling of the cutaneous vessels " as well as to increased functional 
activity of the skin (Handbook 439) in cases of remedial sweating. 

f Other instances might be given, if it were necessary, of the action of both 
lungs and skin in eliminating noxious substances from the blood. Sir W. Aitken 
(Animal Alkaloids, p. 32), quotes from Murchison : " It is a common observation 
that a pungent ammoniacaL odour is given off by the skin and lungs in typhus, 
while the presence of a large quantity of ammonia in the breath admits of actual 
demonstration ;" thus also sulphuretted hydrogen when present in the intestine 
has been breathed out from the lungs (Animal Alkaloids, 41) ; thus also — though 
the instance is less directly in point — Dr. A. Brown, in his most interesting book 
on The Aiiimal Alkaloids, following Gautier, describes (p. 141) the increase and 
accumulation of those alkaloid poisons (known as leucomaines) in the blood- 
stream, when liver, skin, or any other of the eliminating organs is at fault. Im- 
portant as is the office of each of these eliminating organs in getting rid of these 
natural poisons — poisons vi'hich are always being poured into or formed in the blood- 
stream, and which — though probably not without their own useful office — are 
always threatening health, unless kept in check, or destroyed, or eliminated, it is 
interesting to notice that Gautier, in Brown's words, thinks that " their incessant 
combustion in contact with the oxygen of the blood " is even more important 
than their elimination, — in other words, if you wish to fight the battle successfully 
of keeping the blood-stream pure — the one great secret of all health — you must 
live in good air and feed the blood with the largest and purest supplies of oxygen. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH, 85 

matters (nitrogenised matter in the blood) and it seems probable that 
many of the skin affections, especially eczema, found under these cir- 
cumstances, are the direct consequence of this function of the skin " 
(491) ; and he goes on to point out that reduction in the amount of 
nitrogen consumed (with taking of alkalies) "at once relieves these 
skin affections." So also Beale writes (U.D. 6) : " An unmistakeable 
indication of the general disturbance of nutrition, and departure from 
the normal state of the blood, is often afforded by the presence of 
eczematous eruption, or of psoriasis in various parts of the body."^ We 
think then that these affections indicate (1) poisonous or improper 
material in the blood, (2) the effort to get rid of the poison by action 
of the skin, (3) the poisoning of the skin itself by the excess of this 
poisonous material with which it cannot deal, (4) the sacrifice of this 
part of the system in order to avert graver dangers from the internal 
organs. 

And now comes the great question, granted that both lungs and 
skin are organs with a high excreting capacity, — a capacity that can 
be almost indefinitely extended, as occasion arises, — granted that there 
are both normal and abnormal organic emanations from both organs, 
granted that it is to these organic emanations and not to the inodorous 
gas, carbonic acid, that we must look for the deadly mischief that 
arises from rebreathing air that has been already breathed, what can 
be stated about the organic poison, the "septic ferment" which we must 
assume to be present 1 Although modern chemistry seems unable as 
yet to return any sufficient answer to the question, we find some valuable 
indications offered to us by way of analogy. Few persons doubt about 
the evil qualities of sewer gas in a house, — in some cases as regards its 
direct action upon the human system, in other cases as regards its pre- 
disposing influence for certain diseases,— though the chemist as yet can 
only speak vaguely of the causa causans. Dr. Fox writes (313) that "of 
the chemical composition of organic emanations we know very little. 
Dr. Odling found that the vapours arising from sewage, were of a carbo- 
ammoniacal nature, similar to such bodies as methylamine . . . Beyond 
this point there is nothing but a terra, incognita as to this very interesting 
subject." Mr. J. Parry Laws, who has been lately examining sewage 
and sewage-air for the London County Council, and, apparently, is 
impressed both with the small quantities of micro-organisms found in 
the sewer air, and with their harmless character, writes : " Although 
one is led almost irresistibly to the conclusion that organisms found 
in sewer air probably do not constitute any source of danger, it is 
impossible to ignore the evidence, though it be only circumstantial, 

* A friend calls attention to the cases of " the absorption of nitrogenous 
waste products and their elimination by the skin when the kidneys are disabled 
or overcrowded with waste. Thus, for example, when the substance called skatol 
appears in what passes from the kidneys, urticaria (nettle-rash) is produced on 
the skin with toxic symptoms." In the same way one of the writers remembers 
cases in India where liver trouble was relieved as long as the -patient suffered 
from the skin affection called " prickly heat." 



86 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

that sewer air in some instances has had some casual relation to 
zymotic disease. ... It (sewer air) may contain some highly poisonous 
chemical substance, possibly of an alkaloidal nature, which, though 
present in but minute quantities may, nevertheless, produce in con- 
junction with the large excess of carbonic acid, a profound effect upon 
the general vitality." As regards all the effects upon the human system 
of air laden with putrid emanations, it is unnecessary to refer 
to the large amount of evidence accumulated on the subject. 
For a special reason, however, we quote one passage. Sir 
J. Simon writes (ii. 457) : " The mucus membrane of the 
intestinal canal seems peculiarly to bear the stress of all accidental 
putridities which enter the blood," — and he goes on to point out how 
diarrhoea is " the universal result " of the septic ferment which has 
once found its way into the blood. We quote the passage because we 
believe this diarrhoea of the intestinal canal is the exact analogue of, 
and so perfectly illustrates, the poisoning of the mucus membrane of the 
throat, which takes place in a "cold," — the cold being caused in so similar 
a manner. In each case the septic ferment is breathed into the blood, 
is again separated from the blood in the tract that is most suitable for 
its elimination, causing considerable disturbance and suffering in the 
tract itself, but relieving the system from grave dangers by its separa- 
tion from the blood. 

The case of malarial air seems to offer another example of a subtle 
poison that, as yet, cannot be determined. Parkes writes : " The 
most important organic impurity in the air is malaria," — and Aitken, 
quoting this, (vol. i., 420), says "no poisonous principle has yet been 
chemically demonstrated in the air of malarial regions. But many 
other acknowledged disease-poisons are in a similar predicament as to 

visible proofs of their substantial existence." "But, although 

no one has seen malarious spores, there is evidence of some subtle in- 
visible imponderable element — the product of the decomposition and 
decay of vegetable matter under certain conditions of heat and 
moisture " ; — and again : " whose presence (i.e., of the malarial poison) 
is solely detected by its action on the human body." He adds : "The 
human system is the only field for the action of this specific poison" ; 
a statement which, though it would be denied by Professors Crudeli 
and Klebs, suggests suspicion, in the case of these very subtle poisons, 
as regards the conclusions drawn from experiments made upon 
animals. On the subject of malaria, Watson, writing at an earlier 
date, says (i., 768) : " The effluvia .... are probably gaseous .... 
But they are imperceptible to any of our senses ; of their physical or 
chemical qualities we really know nothing"; and Dr. W. Maclean 
(Quain's Diet.) writes : " Chemists have not been able to demonstrate 
the presence of a malaria — a fever-generating agent — in the air of 
marshes, any more than they have been able so to do in other places 
where the same fevers prevail." He then goes on to describe the re- 
searches made into the bacillus malaria. On this point Dr. Cornelius Fox 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 87 

writes (268) : " The experimental evidence which at present exists as 
to the presence of a bacillus malaria (Klebs) in the air of marshes 
where ague abounds ... is insufficient and unconvincing." 

Into the evidence on the subject afforded by experiments upon 
animals we have not entered. Whatever is the evidence afforded by 
these experiments, we think that Drs. Haldane and Lorraine Smith 
will admit that the facts of daily observation and human experience, 
the facts of human health and disease, and the reasonings founded 
upon them, must be satisfactorily dealt with before the new doctrine 
as regards the harmlessness of organic emanations and the hurtfulness 
of carbonic acid can be accepted. Until this is done a fortress likely to 
give much serious trouble is left untaken in their rear. A considerable 
number of experiments on animals made some time ago [by Gavarret, 
Hammond, Richardson, Brown-Sequard, Du Bois-Raymond, Friedlander 
— as regards excess of carbonic acid (30 p. c.) with full supply of oxygen 
— see Carpenter, 391] to which more modern experiments have to be 
added, gave results opposed to the new doctrine ; and it is a matter of 
regret to one of our number (A. H.) who has invincible prejudices on 
this subject, that probably a long series of experiments by 
many experimenters will now be performed in the effort to adjust the 
conflicting evidence. Professor Jacob wrote (12) : " Some experiments 
made in Paris a few years ago seemed to shew conclusively that the 
principal agent was the organic impurity referred to above. Recently, 
however, these experiments have been repeated, both in Germany and 
England with negative results, and it seems probable that, as was 
originally held, the excess of carbonic acid must be credited with the 
injurious effects noted." Without entering again here upon a subject 
on which one of our number (A. H.) has explained his own position 
on p. 18 of the text, it is enough to state that results obtained from 
experiments upon animals by careful and competent persons have pro- 
duced results apparently in flat opposition to each other ; and it does 
not seem easy to choose the evidence of one set of experiments and 
reject the other. "^ 

*NoTE. — A. H. writes : " I cannot, however, help adding that I think 
that this conflict of evidence should offer a strong inducement to those, 
who have moral objections to this special method, to make a systematic 
and v^ell-thought out attempt on their own account to work by other methods 
of physiological research. T should like to submit to my medical friends, 
who favour experiments upon animals, whether this instance does not betray a 
weak side in their method ? Grant for a moment that Drs. Haldane and Lorraine 
Smith are right in their view as regards carbonic acid and organic emanations — 
what has taken place ? Certain experiments on animals were made in the past 
years, from which it was concluded that the organic emanations were highly 
poisonous. That conclusion — principally in virtue of these experiments — becomes 
widely accepted, and finds its place in all the text-books and in the schools of medical 
teaching. After a certain number of years new experiments are made and — 
granting for the moment that it is so — a contrary doctrine is established and 
accepted. Meanwhile just because the conclusion (which was once accepted) 
rested upon laboratory experiment, it lay outside the criticism -and daily obser- 
vation of many thousands of medical practitioners in all countries. It was to 99 



88 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

out of 100 practitioners a mere statement of the text-books. It was to them as a 
dogma which they could only accept, and as regards which no call was made 
upon their own intelligence and observation. On the contrary had this conclusion 
rested on facts of health and disease, and on clinical deduction, it would have 
provoked continual observation and criticism on their part. Does not the ques- 
tion then arise, whether physiological experiment — divorced as it is from ordinary 
medical practice— is not more of a hindrance than a help to the ordinary medical 
practitioner ? In other words does not the ordinary practioner lose more than he 
gains by thinking in terms of the laboratory — which lies apart from his experience 
and observation — instead of thinking in terms of his own daily practice ? " 

It may be well before concluding to restate the case quite shortly 
as against Dr. Haldane's view. (1) Dr. Haldane admits an organic 
excretion ; (2) our sense of smell gives evidence of the strong and 
peculiar nature of this excretion ; (3) the physiological probability is 
strong that any excretion continuously got rid of would be hurtful, 
if re-introduced into the system, from which it is regularly eliminated ; 
(4) slight increases of carbonic acid and slight decreases of oxygen in 
the air, and want of personal cleanliness, do not seem sufficient to 
explain either the immediate or the remote effects of stuffy rooms ; 
(6) the evidence — such as it is — seems to be on the side of the com- 
parative harmlessness of slightly increased carbonic acid in the air, 
when pure, and unmixed with products of human respiration ; (6) the 
capacity of the skin and the lungs to separate substances from the 
blood — a capacity which may on occasion be carried to a very high 
point — offers indirect evidence that both these organs normally exercise 
some eliminating and purifying action upon the blood ; (7) the un- 
ascertained nature of such poisons as the malarial poison and the 
poison of sewage-air offers illustrations of the subtle nature of certain 
virulent poisons, and the great difficulty in tracing them except by 
their effects. 



Books referred to (with abbreviation used in text) which are not 
included in former list. The abbreviated form is placed in brackets. 

Beale, *' The Liver " [L.] ; " Urinary Diseases " [U.D.] ; Fothergill, ''Practi- 
tioners Handbook of Treatment" [H.] ; " Diseases of Sedentary Life" [S.L.] ; 
Cornelius Fox, " Sanitary Examinations of Water, &c."; Mortimer Granville, 
"Gout"; Professor Jacob, ''Ventilation and Warming"; J. Parry Laws, 
" Reports on sewer air investigations " (Ij.C.C.) ; Louis Parkes, " Hygiene and 
Public Health " ; Sir John Simon, " Public Health Reports." 



ADDITION TO GLOSSARY OF TERMS. 

Ammonia is a colourless pungent gas resulting from a combination of nitrogen 
and hydrogen. In the analysis of water the ammonia, which is found, is spoken 
of (1) as free, and (2) as albumenoid, — the two together making the total 
ammonia found. Free ammonia is produced on boiling the water with an 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 89 

alkali* ; and albiimenoid ammonia is given off at another stage as the albumen 
(an organic compound, the presence of which shows pollution of the water) is 
broken down and decomposed under the action of oxygen. The free, ammonia 
does not necessarily shew organ impurity of water, resulting from organic 
matter. It indicates the presence of salts of ammonia (whatever their origin) 
not combined with organic matter. These salts may result from previous 
pollution. 

* An alkali neutralises an acid, forming, when combined with it, the neutral substances, 
called salts. 

Eczema: A skin disease. ''An eruption of small vesicles [vesicles— small eleva- 
tions of the outer skin, containing h^mph (lymph is an element of the blood, 
transparent)] usually crowded together." 

Infusoria : Minute organisms, most of which can only be seen microscopically. 
'• Most possess a mouth." Most possess cilia or hairs, on the movement of 
which their own movement depends. " There may be more infusorians in a 
cup of stagnant water than there are people on the globe." They are not to 
be confounded with bacteria. 

Proteid : Composed of protein. Protein is a compound containing carbon, oxygen, 
hydrogen, and nitrogen. '' Nearly identical with white of cggy 

Psoriasis : A skin disease " consisting of patches of rough amorphous (shapeless) 
scales." 



APPENDIX C 



A Fresh Air Society, 



As already suggested, we think that those who hate stuffiness and 
love fresh and pure air might usefully combine in some simple form of 
association. Such an association (exacting a shilling a year from its 
members for postage stamps) might meet once a year — in some place 
with a large airy room and suitable garden accommodation — so as to 
allow the members to know each other, and to report and consider the 
best ways of inducing a greater love of fresh air amongst the public ; 

The work of the association might be carried on in a more 
individualistic manner than generally prevails at present in associations ; 

The committee would act principally as a central body to receive 
and impart information ; 

A, B, C, D, (kc, might then be named as individuals, who would act 
on their own account and on their own responsibility, receiving subscrip- 
tions from all those interested in their special class of work. They 
would undertake work of the following kinds, — the instances given 
below being only given as examples : 



90 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

(1) To communicate with persons responsible for churches, concert- 
rooms, theatres, public halls, hotels, &c., as regards the means of 
ventilation provided, and the purifying of the building by the free 
admission of air during the time that it was not in use ; 

(2) Special arrangements with hotel keepers {a) *for the use of a 
second coffee room, where a window could be continually open ; 
(b) for taking meals under a sheltered verandah ; (c) for carefully 
exposing the bedding of special bed-rooms to the air, and for regular 
cleansing from time to time of the bedding in use ; 

(3) To induce some of those who are in the habit of entertaining to 
give dinners, dances, parties, house-concerts, in rooms permitting the 
free and abundant admission of air, with such adaptations of dress as 
are found convenient, and with simple efficient arrangements to 
prevent any person from being hurtfuUy affected by cold air blowing 
upon them"^ ; 

Any member of the committee, or of the society, might underwrite 
the names of persons willing to undertake this kind of woi'k, as 
expressing their belief in their suitability ; and those persons who con- 
tributed towards A or B or C's work would meet together and arrange 
between themselves and with A, B, or C, as regards the work ; 

In all cases A, B, or C, would act on his own responsibility, and 
not on the responsibility of the Society or of his special group of 
subscribers, unless it were so specially arranged. 

We are afraid that we both of us are too much occupied personally 
to undertake any part in the direction, but we would receive names 
of all persons who are generally favourable to the idea of creating a 
shilling-society for these objects, and the names also of those who 
would undertake work for the society, and if the names of intending 
members were sufficient we would call the members together. 



H. W., A. H. 



Address : Harold Wager, Yorkshire Coll., Leeds. 

AuBERON Herbert, Old House, Ringwood. 



* A good deal of thought and contrivance is necessary on behalf of those 
chilly people, who, notwithstanding their chilliness, delight in fresh air, and have 
learnt that their risks of taking cold are much increased in the long run by 
'* shutting up." For all such people it is necessary that they should bring with 
them a sufficiency of wraps, just as if they intended to take a drive in the open 
air. Overcoats, caps, and bonnets, may be just as necessary in a fresh-air dining 
room, or at a fresh-air concert, as in a carriage or in the street. For dancing — 
both for men and women — the true dress would be the loose easy ilannel dress 
that suits lawn tennis or cricket. The present ballroom dress of men and 
women is a triumphant success in unreason and unsuitability, on which the most 
perverse skill in devising the wrong thing could hardly improve. 



BAD xVIK AND BAD HEALTH. 91 



APPENDIX D 



We feel that we ought not to bring this Kttle tract to a conclusion 
before insisting once more upon the truth that, important as is the 
breathing of pure air, it is but one of the factors in preserving a high 
state of efficient health. The value of pure air consists in its effect in 
keeping the blood-stream pure ; and the purity of the blood-stream 
depends upon other conditions besides the breathing of pure air. The 
water which is drunk must be pure, as witli impure water there is a 
constant accumulation of impurities in the blood and in the tissues, 
which means future trouble of some kind, either infectious or non- 
infectious. In the same way cleanliness of the person and care as 
regards dress and bedding are necessary. Where cleanliness in these 
respects is not observed, the skin does not play its part efficiently in 
helping to keep the blood pure. Clothes and bedding should be 
exposed to pure air much more frequently than is usually done. It is 
a good rule never to wear the same underclothing on two following 
days, but to let the clothes worn on one day be exposed for some 
hours to pure air on the next day. Such an arrangement means 
trouble, since clothes so exposed often require warming at a fire before 
use. In the same way, all bedding should go out into the sun at 
certain intervals, — a process easy enough in the country, but requiring 
special arrangement in towns. If such an arrangement is found 
impossible, it should be exposed for as many hours as possible to the 
sun in a room, where the windows are large, and where a large body 
of air can be made to flow through the room. Again sufficient exercise 
is necessary, since the movement of the muscles both drives the 
products of ''waste" out of the tissues into the blood-stream, where 
if the conditions are healthy, they can be got rid of, and also supplies 
the tissues with the oxygen required for the breaking up of waste 
into the products that are to be got rid of. In the same way consti- 
pation—whenever it exists — must be overcome, not by use of drugs, 
which are an evil ia themselves, and are only serviceable on emergencies, 
but by those alterations in diet and in habits of life, which each person, 
after careful reading upon the subject, must slowly discover for them- 
selves by experiment. Constipation is just as certain a means of 
fouling the blood-stream as either drinking impure water or breathing 
impure air, — noxious substances being re-absorbed into the blood-stream 
and slowly poisoning the whole system. So also excess of every kind 
must be avoided. Excess of eating and di'inking means a defiled 



92 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 

blood-stream, because the overworked liver or kidney is no longer able 
to fulfil its function of purifying the stream, and impurities accumulate 
whilst the purifying organ itself becomes less and less efficient. Other 
excesses lower nerve power ; and the loss of nerve power results in the 
accumulation of poisons in the system, since all the eliminating and 
purifying organs do their work less effectually. 

A few last words should be said on the subject of infection. What- 
ever immunity may exist in special races of animals or men as regards 
certain diseases, or in special individuals, we hold that, speaking 
broadly, immunity from infectious disease depends upon the purity of 
the blood-stream. We have said in an earlier passage that the growth 
of the serm is in reality an agricultural operation within the individual, 
and, in this instance, as in all other agricultural operations, the soil 
must be in a fit state for the growth of the crop introduced. This 
favourable condition exists whenever the blood or tissues are unduly 
charged with impui-ities, whenever the eliminating organs are not 
working effectually, whenever improper substances, as those contained 
in impure air or impure water, are being accumulated from any source. 
The evidence on this point, that infection depends upon the impure 
state of the blood, seems to us very strong. Without giving in this 
tract all the heads into which this evidence may be divided, we may 
call attention to some of them*. (1) The great results attained by 
simple sanitary improvements, as regards the draining, or cleansing of 
districts, the replacing of impure water by pure water, the ventilation 
of buildings, the removal of tilth, &c., all of which improvements 
simply mean that the blood-stream of the individuals ceased to be 
continuously and necessarily defiled ; (2) the greater intensity of 
disease and its more dangerous forms where the conditions are insani- 
tary, and the individuals are continuously prepared for disease ; (3) 
the dying out of terrible diseases over large tracts as the condition of 
the people has improved ; (4) the evidence that infectious disease 
often requires a previous unhealthy state in the person attacked, — thus, 
for example, Dr. Thorne Thorne has pointed out that diphtheria seems to 
require an unhealthy condition of the part attacked ; thus the stomach 
in a healthy condition resists the cholera bacillus (see page 26) ; thus 
some fevers in the East are specially dangerous during times of lowered 
health ; and thus the nurses who attended patients escaped typhus 
when the wards were well ventilated ; (4) the almost certain emergence 
of infectious disease amongst plants, animals, and men, when the 
favourable conditions have existed for a certain time, and when at 
last, by some accident, the stray germ is introduced ; (5) the far 
greater immunity from disease in wild plants and wild animals, as 
compared with domesticated animals and cultivated plants, owing to 
the high rates of health after in the wild plants and animals. 

We have collected a certain amount of evidence on these and similar 
points, which we hope later to publish, and we believe that the 

*Merely a few examples are given here under some of the heads. 



BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 93 

evidence that might be collected is almost unlimited. The present 
continental tendency to discover anti-toxines for almost every in- 
fectious disease seems to us a step wholly in the wrong direction. 
Immunity from infectious disease is to be secured by a more careful 
study of the conditions of health, and by greater intelligence and prudence 
exercised by the individual. Everything in the long run turns upon 
the intelligence and prudence of the individual. If he will not assist 
nature to do her work easily and without unnecessary difficulties and 
exertion in his own person, no protection and no remedies can save 
him. Indeed the (temporary) banishment of infectious diseases, either 
by the use of preventive remedies, or by the blocking out of the 
infectious germs by elaborate contrivances — were it even possible — 
would be a misfortune and evil for the human race, not an advantage. 
For this reason. Every infectious disease is a measure of wrong living. 
By its spread and by its intensity it exactly expresses the amount of 
our departure from the conditions of health— the amount of the defile- 
ment of the blood stream, and of preparation for the growth of the 
germ. Could we, therefore, for a time suspend the danger of infectious 
diseases, we should only sink to lower levels of health, and still further 
encourage ourselves in improper habits of life. The consequence of 
this false protection and encouragement in unintelligent and unhealthy 
habits of life would be that, when disease at last came to us, it would 
come with the destructive violence with which, for example, measles 
came to the inhabitants of Fiji. But in real truth disease is not to be 
evaded. The new forms which it is always tending to assume, both 
among men and animals, assure us that if we block the enemy out at 
one gate, he will enter at another. New forms of infections constantly 
disclose themselves ; diseases which were comparatively unimportant 
become active and intense ; whilst non-infectious diseases, in the 
absence of infectious disease, would become far more serious in their 
character. There is but one true defence, and that is the wise and 
healthy conduct of life by the individual. The thanks of all intelligent 
persons are due to Dr. Thorne Thorne, for the war he has so ably 
waged against the barbaric stupidity of quarantine ; and the moral of 
this war holds good in many directions. No locks and bolts will keep 
out disease. No preventive measures are of the slightest permanent 
utility which leave the standard of health unaltered, or which leave 
the individual free to persevere in unhealthy habits. All disease — 
whether infectious or not — marks the exact amount of our own aber- 
ration, or the aberration of our parents, from the true ways of health ; 
and immunity from disease depends, not upon laboratory dodges, but 
upon our discovering and conscientiously following, the true practice 
of health in all matters of everyday household life. Nature insists 
upon a continual raising of the type, and disease is one of her most 
efficient instruments towards that end. Of course, things being as they 
are, all reasonable precautions should be taken to avoid infectious germs ; 
but the safety so obtained is only a precarious and temporary safety. 



94 BAD AIR AND BAD HEALTH. 



APPENDIX E. 



As regards the protection afforded by the white cells (alluded to on 
page 26) which have been stated to incorporate into themselves and 
devour noxious germs, it is now maintained by other observers that 
these cells exercise their protection by secreting a substance which is 
unfavorable to the invading germs, and not by actually devouring the 



ERRATU M. 



On p. 18 (Note), instead of " assigning a bacterial origin to 
cancer," read "assigning a microbe origin," &c. 

On p. 69, instead of " Appendixa," read " Appendix A." 

On p 88, last line, for " produced " read " liberated." 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR: 

Sacrifice of Education to Examination : A collection of letters 
and papers by well-known persons, edited by Auberon Herbert, 
price 2/- ; 

Windfall and Waterdrift : Verse-Miniatures, price 1/6; in cloth, 2/-; 

Williams & Norgate : 14, Heurietta Street, Covent Garden, London ; and 20, South 
Frederick Street, Edinburgh. 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR: 

To appear shortly: *'A Politician in trouble about his soul," 
new edition, altered and revised ; Under the Yoke of the 
Butterflies, reprinted from the Fortniylitly Review ; Articles 

and Letters, collected ; Voluntary State Leaflets, collected; 
The Voluntaryist's Catechism ; The Voluntaryist's Creed, 



FREE LIFE. 95 



THE FREE LIFE: 

Organ of Voluntary Taxation and of the Voluntary State. 



Edited by Auberon Herbert. Id. Monthly ; 116 per year, free by post. 



The widest possible liberty, only limited by the equal liberty q/ all''' : — 

Herbert Spencer. 

Over his own body and mind the individual is sovereigri " .• — J. S. Mill 



THE FREE LIFE believes that no real progress of any kind can be made 
until we frankly recognise the great body of truths which are expressed in the 
word Self-Ownership. 

We must recognise that every individual is the true owner of his own faculties, 
bodily and mental, and of all property acquired (without force or fraud in his 
dealings with others) by means of his faculties, — individual ownership of property 
being the necessary complement of individual ownership of faculties, and resting 
on the same moral basis ; 

That the only rightful use of force in the world is to protect this self -ownership 
against force ; * in other words to guarantee the person and property of all against 
violence and certain forms of fraud ; in other words again, to restrain the 
murderer, the thief, the swindler, and so to preserve everywhere an open and free 
field for the employment by each of his faculties in such manner and for such 
purposes as he chooses ; 

That the one limit to the employment of faculties is the force-and-fraud-limit, 
since force and fraud, employed by A and B, are the negation of self-ownership 
as regards C and D ; 

That the consent of each individual as regards the use of his faculties, or the 
employment of his property, is the foundation on which all morality depends, — 
apart from which foundation morality is resolved into the shifting^ will of a 
casual majority ; 

■ There must be included certain coarse forms of fraud, which are the equivalent of force, since 
some forms of fraud set aside the consent of the individual concerned in the same manner as 
force itself sets it aside. The force to be restrained is not the force of the more skilful, or the 
more industrious, or the more wealthy, it is not the force of circumstances, which favour some 
individuals more than others, but simply and exclusively the force, of either the bludgeon or the 
law, which sets aside the consent of another as regards his own actions or his own property. 



96 FREE LIFE. 

That this consent of the individual as regards himself, his actions, and his pro. 
perty, is the most sacred thing in the world, and can never be set aside on the 
plea of any alleged public safety, or any alleged public interest ; that force can 
never be rightly employed to advance the opinions or the interests of any section, 
however important such opinions and such interests may be ; that it never can be 
rightfully employed as the instrument of any section to better their condition 
in life ; 

That force cannot be rightly employed to fight any moral evils, to make men 
sober, to regulate sexual relations, to compel children to be educated, to regulate 
the conditions of labour, to prevent any men working on such terms as they 
themselves choose, or to compel one section to accept and to serve the opinions and 
interests of another section ; 

That all compulsory takings of property, under the name of taxes, from the 
individual, all compulsory services placed upon the individual, all barriers and 
restraints to trade, all legal gates placed in front of professions and occupations, 
all creation of vested interests, or privileges, or monopolies, by means of law, all 
tariffs and custom duties, all forcible interferences with the faculties, habits, and 
lives of individuals, are wrongful acts on the part of the State, without any moral 
foundation, and with no title of right for their enforcement, except that the State 
is in mere brute strength stronger than the individual ; 

That free trade, free acquisition of property in the open market, free contract, 
free life, are supreme and inviolable moral rights of the individual, which cannot be 
taken from him by any body of persons, whether calling themselves by the name 
of the State, or by any other name ; 

That whatever rights the State possesses of using force are simply rights first 
possessed by the individual, and then delegated by the individual to the State ; 
and, therefore. State-rights of using force can never exceed those rights of using 
force possessed by the individual as an individual ; 

That it is absurd to suppose that individuals, as individuals, possess any 
rights of using force except the one right to resist force, if necessary, by force, 
since in such case, instead of all men being self-owners, some would be owners of 
others, and possessed of a moral right to do as they chose with the lives and the 
property of these others ; 

That if the individual may not use force, except to repel force, then clearly the 
State cannot do so ; that as the State is the creation and instrument of the indi- 
vidual, and consists simply of a collection of individuals, its rights must always be 
in subordination to the rights of the individual ; that it is a hopeless confusion of 
thought to suppose that the rights of the State can ever transcend or exceed the 
rights of the individuals by whom it is created, and for whom it exists ; 
• That the rule of the majority is only an artificial arrangement, suitable in one 
set of circumstances, and not in another ; that it can only deal with such things 
as fall rightfully under its dominion, — for example, with such things as are 
voluntarily submitted to it by those who make up both the majority and the 
minority ; that it is a mere superstition to suppose that a majority, as such, 
possesses any rights over the faculties or property of a minority, unless the 
minority, individual by individual, consents to place their faculties and pro- 
perty at the disposal of the majority ; 



FREE LIFE. 97 

That numbers can not give rights or take away rights ; that if the whole world 
be placed on one side, and a single individual on the other, there is no moral 
power on the part of the whole world, minus one, to take from this one any 
part of his self -ownership ; 

That where differences of opinion exist between majorities and minorities, each 
should take their own way, without any use of compulsion and without any com- 
pulsory use of the resources of each other ; 

That this or that scheme of state-socialism may grow for the moment, until 
men learn to see the uselessness of all reforms founded on force, but it cannot 
endure ; that just because every state-socialistic scheme is founded on the denial 
of human rights, and on the usurpation of authority by some over others, it must 
sooner or later be broken to pieces on the unalterable rock of individual rights. 

The Voluntary State is the expression of these supreme individual rights. The 
Voluntary State will rest on a voluntary basis, in the sense that it will compel no 
one to join it, or to subscribe to it, or to do service for it. It will depend entirely 
on voluntary payments and voluntary services. It will be the depository of 
compulsion or force for the purpose, as already shewn, of restraining the use of 
force or fraud in the dealings of men with each other, of keeping the field open 
for the employment of the faculties of all within that one limit. It will use 
force, not for the fanciful purposes of this or that section of politicians, but simply 
and solely to restrain the use of force. As a voluntary institution it may have a 
great career of usefulness. For many years, until voluntary effort finds a stronger 
development and assumes the many different competing forms which await it in 
the future, the Voluntary State may continue to be a powerful popular agent in 
matters of education, sanitation, inspection of factories, workshops, buildings, and 
other matters affecting the welfare of the people. But it will simply play the 
part of friend and adviser ; it will use no compulsion, it will usurp no authority, 
it will act with the concurrence of those concerned. It will be a conciliating and 
remedial agent, not an oppressor and a begetter of strife. The mad attempt to 
drive and regulate and persecute by means of rival political factions and clumsy un- 
controlled public departments being abandoned, we shall become far more really 
interested than we have ever yet been in the welfare of each other, and far more 
disposed to co-operate together ; while the moral forces of discussion, sympathy, 
and example, will acquire much more influence, as our hatred of coercion increases. 
We shall not gladden and exalt the politician by spending our time quarrelling 
and struggling for power ; we shall not be rushing from one form of property- 
holding into another, living in perpetual confusion and uncertainty as to what 
each day may bring forth ; we shall not have any reason for hating and fearing 
the domination of some rival section over ourselves ; we shall not see from year 
to year enormous burdens silently growing, whilst in exchange services of very 
doubtful value are conferred upon us, about which we are allowed no individual 
choice ; but we shall all be living face to face with the reality of things, knowing 
exactly how best to employ our faculties for our own advantage or for the help 
of others, and knowing the exact conditions under which our labour is to be 
applied. The free market, free enterprise, free acquisition of property, free 
contract, free conditions of life and labour, — these are things which we can all 
understand, and reckon with accordingly ; but no man knows or can reckon with 



98 FREE LIFE. 

what the socialistic state, or semi-socialistic, or demi-semi-socialistic. state may- 
have to offer him. It is all hidden in the region of uncertainty and arbitrariness ; 
it defies calculation and precision ; it depends upon the blind struggles of parties 
with their varying success ; it is independent of growth and evolution. A rush 
of vague expectations may create state socialism to-day ; a rush of disappointments 
may sweep it out of existence to-morrow. From the point of view of material 
prosperity, what the human race requires is stability and certainty as regards the 
general conditions under which it is to apply its labour, and as regards the owner- 
ship of the produce resulting from its labour, — not abrupt changes, affecting 
labour and property, made by those who have got hold for a moment of an all 
powerful central machine, and are ambitious of remodelling the world according 
to very crude and hastily formed ideas. Only by respecting rights, only by 
refusing the temptation to create fancy social states by force, can there be peace- 
ful growth and development, and peaceful growth and development are the only 
road to better things. The Socialist may go on grinding out artificial states of 
society till the end of time by means of his central machine, but his only service 
to society will be to demonstrate the uselessness of his force-systems. He cannot 
alter the laws of our existence. Men, deprived of their own judgment and 
volition by an external authority, are worthless for all great purposes. No civiliza- 
tion of a high order can be built up from compelled units, but only from free 
units. There is no system possible for human beings, touched with the real 
instinct of progress, but Voluntaryism, — freedom to pursue every path, except 
the one path of aggression by force or fraud on others ; freedom limited only by 
freedom ; force employed for no purpose whatever except to rule out force and 
fraud, as inadmissible elements in the open field of men's dealings with each 
other. 



Order Free Life from Messrs. Marlborough, 51, Old Bailey, E.G. ; Mr. Simpson, Broomfleld Road, 
Heaton Moor, Stockport ; or Mr. Auberon Herbert, Old House, Ringwood. Specimen copy and 
Liberty papers sent gratis. Apply : Mr. Simpson or Mr. Herbert. 



Anti-Compulsory Taxation League. 

Yearly Subscription Id. Send names to Mr. Auberon Herbert or Mr. Simpson. Papers sent gratis. 



Mr. Auberon Herbert will be glad to write to those who are interested ; and very grateful to 
those who will distribute papers and help in any way in forwarding the Voluntaryist movement. 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 





Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made ty LIBRAEY BUREAU 



H 



