
\> 



«^o 



3r 



m 



■?? DeSAbis. 



X 



Shelf No/ 




JAN 29 A 

MAY 6' 4 



GARDENING A LA MODE 

FRUITS 



WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS. 



' Those excellent cookery books that have made Mrs. De Salis 
an authority in every kitchen that has any pretensions to high art.' 

Scotsman. 

SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 

Crown 8vo. is. Cd. ^ 

OYSTERS A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. 
DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY A LA MODE. 

Crown 8vo. i^. 6d. 

ENTREES A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. i^. 6d. 
PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Crown 

8vo. i^. 6d?. 

SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 

Crown Svo. ts. 6d, 

CAKES AND CONFECTIONS A LA MODE. 

Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. Crown 

Svo. ts. (id. 

GARDENING A LA MODE. I. Vegetables. 

Crown Svo. 

GARDENING A LA MODE. II. Fruits. Crown 

Svo. 
SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Crown Svo. i^. (yd. 

DRINKS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. i.r. (id. 

TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES. 

Crown Svo. is. ()d. 

NATIONAL VIANDS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. 
TS. ed. 

FLORAL DECORATIONS : Suggestions and Descrip- 
tions. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

WRINKLES AND NOTIONS FOR EVERY 

HOUSEHOLD. Crown Svo. is. 6d. y 
NEW-LAID EGGS: Hints for Amateur Poultry 

Rearers. Crown Svo. i.f. (^d. 
DOGS : a Manual for Amateurs. Crgwn Svo. \s. 6d. 

London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 

and New York. 



GARDENING A LA MODE 



FRUITS 



RY 



MRS DE SALTS 

AUTHORESS OF 
THE 'A LA mode' SERIES OF COOKERY BOOKS, ETC. 



Apricots, peaches, phtjits, cherries. 
Pears, vieJons, apples, orajiges, 
Citr07is, gooseberries, cnr7-ants, 
Strawberries, raspbe^-ries, and all 
Sorts of fruit come at my call 

' « - - Tpe»TVh?te C«.t 



LONDON 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

AND NEW YORK 
T895 



PREFACE 



These little manuals on gardening are simply 
intended to help amateurs ; they do not pretend to 
go deeply into the science of Vegetable and Fruit 
cultivation, as there are so many standard works 
on this interesting subject. These are merely 
proposed to be handy little books of reference for 
those persons who do their own gardening in a 
small way, and are the upshot of the well-known 
saying ' Experientia docet,' as when we came to 
live in the country we were such Cockneys, we 
knew absolutely nothing of gardening ; and, as we 
had to make our garden, which was only a field, and 
could not afford an experienced gardener, we set to 
work to learn the art We bought various books, 
and took in weekly periodicals on the' subject, 
and experimented on the advice therein contained 
until we found out for ourselves what succeeded 
best ; and I am proud to say our experiments have 



vi FRUITS 

been crowned with success : these little volumes 
are the result of the advice we followed. Of course 
in such abridged works I cannot write all I could 
wish ; still I hope they will prove of some use to 
my readers. But I recommend those who do their 
own gardening to purchase Johnson's ' Dictionary 
of Gardening ' as a reference ; also Messrs. Sutton's 
work on the Culture of Vegetables, and Watts' 
' Orchard and Fruit Garden ; ' and to take in the 
following weeklies — ' The Gardener,' ' Home and 
Farm,' and ' Field, Farm, and Fireside,' each costing- 
one penny. 

H. A. DE Salis. 
Hampton Lea, Sutton. 



GARDENING— FRUITS 



APPLES 

Apple trees delight in a sound, free, and mode- 
rately deep rich soil, of a loamy nature, as on 
heavy moist ground trees get into a stunted, mossy 
condition ; and again, where it is too light or dry, 
especially where the subsoil is gravelly, they are 
apt to become badly cankered. 

In planting them the soil should not only be 
trenched, but beneath each tree chalkstones and 
brickbats should be rammed in (according to the 
extent of the roots), to form a kind of pavement to 
lead the roots horizontally. The roots that are 
nearest the surface should be twelve inches below it. 

In planting an espalier the young plant should 
be cut down to within a foot of the ground, and 
only three shoots permitted to spring from it, and 
should be planted at the distance of twenty feet 
apart, and require both winter and summer pruning. 

I should advise all amateurs to engage a profi- 
cient gardener whenever pruning is necessary, as 
it requires knowledge and great nicety, and once 
the amateur has seen it done two or three times, he 

B 



2 GARDENING 

or she will be able to manage it afterwards ; but 
no explanation can be given so good as a demon- 
strative lesson. When apple trees are old they 
require manuring. 

Apple trees may be pinched back to three leaves 
each, all except the leading shoots, throughout the 
summer. In June the fruit should be thinned, and 
if the trees are young, care must be taken not to 
allow them to bear too heavy crops. 

Canker in Apple Trees. — We have to consider, 
in the first instance, the cause of this disease, 
which may either be from frost on ill-ripened wood, 
injury to the roots through badly drained soil, or 
injury to the stems. The Ribstone Pippin, Reinette 
de Canada, and Bedfordshire Foundling are most 
prone to it. The cure can often be effected by simply 
paring the wounds down to perfectly healthy wood, 
and dressing them with a mixture of loam and fresh 
cow manure, worked into the consistency of paint. 
Storage of Apples. — If the fruit be sound and 
carefully gathered, they may be packed in barrels 
or boxes. An apple room is a great desideratum, 
but it is not always convenient to have one. Each 
kind should be arranged each sort by itself, and 
the earliest arranged so that they may be taken 
first- 
Varieties of Apples. — The varieties are endless, 
and it would require several pages to enumerate all 
the different sorts and their capabilities. Therefore 
I will only name some of them : — Adam's Pear- 
main ; Alfriston, a fine old variety, good keeper, 
sweet and juicy, November and February ; Beauty 
of Bath, vigorous and productive ; Beauty of Kent, 
very juicy, crisp, tender and piquant, cooker ; Bed- 
fordshire Foundling ; Bess Pool, good bearer ; 



FRUITS 3 

Beurre Clairgeau ; Bismark, a new apple from Aus- 
tralia, large, and smelling like a Wellington ; Blen- 
heim Orange, for dessert and cooking ; Boston 
Russet ; Brandling's Seedling, large, heavy, and 
good keeper ; Cellini Pippin ; Cockpit ; Cockle 
Pippin ; Cox's Orange Pippin ; Cox's Pomona, 
cooker ; Codlin, old English ; Court Pendu Plat ; 
Domino, vigorous and productive ; Duchess of 
Oldenburg, vigorous and productive ; Dumelow's 
Seedling ; Dutch Mignonne, a large and late variety ; 
Emperor Alexander, large apple, good bearer, 
cooker, and eating ; Early Plarvest ; Eclinville 
Seedling, good cooker ; Emile d'Heyst ; Flanders 
Pippin ; Fletcher's Prolific ; Gloria Mundi ; Golden 
Noble, useful mid-season ; Golden Reinette ; Golden 
Pippin ; Golden Russet ; Gravenstein ; Jolly Beg- 
gar, cooker ; Jun eating, red and white ; King of 
Pippins ; Keswick Codlin, cooker ; Kentish Fill- 
basket ; Lane's Prince Albert, excellent keeper and 
cooker, a large and handsomely striped fruit, keeps 
from October till March ; Lord Grosvenor, good 
cooker ; Lord Derby, cooker ; Lady Henniker ; 
Lady's Fingers ; Lemon Pippin ; Lord Sufifield, 
cooker ; Malster ; Mere de Minage, a large crimson 
apple, November, December, January ; Nelson's 
Glory ; New Hawthornden, large, excellent, and 
prolific ; Newtown Pippin ; Nonsuch, cooker ; 
Nonpareil ; Northern Greening, late apple ; Peas- 
good Nonsuch ; Pott's Seedling ; Ribstone Pippin ; 
Russet ; Small's Admirable, big and productive ; 
Stirling Castle, good cooker ; The Queen ; The 
Tower of Glammis, a large solid apple, from 
November to February ; Warner's King, good 
cooker, requires a warm soil, very vigorous and 
productive ; Wellington, one of the finest winter 

B 2 



4 GARDENING 

apples ; Worcester Pearmain ; Winter's Peach, 
cooker ; Yorkshire Greening. 

Dessert Apples. — Beauty of Kent ; Benonifine, 
flavour ; Blenheim Orange, late ; Cornish Aromatic ; 
Cox's Orange Pippin, late ; Court Pendu Plat, late ; 
Court of Wirt, keeper ; Devonshire Quarrendon, 
red, a warm soil ; Irish Peach, small ; Golden Knob ; 
Kerry Pippin, small ; King of Pippins ; Lady 
Sudeley, striped fruit, fine flavour ; Lord Burghley ; 
Margil ; Medium ; Mr. Gladstone, striped and 
mottled ; Reinette de Canada, late ; Ross Nonpareil, 
very productive ; Scarlet Nonpareil, late ; Sturmer 
Pippin, late ; Worcester Pearmain, very handsome. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 

Apple Salad 

Boil lightly a few apples, and then slice them into a 
salad bowl, adding half a pint of syrup, the rind and juice 
of a lemon, one tablespoonful of whisky, and a tablespoonful 
of blanched and grated almonds. 

Apple Timbale ct la Dubois 

Peel, core, and divide some apples, chop them, and put 
them into a stewpan with a small teaspoonful of essence of 
vanilla, a piece of butter, and two handfuls of sugar. Toss 
over a brisk fire, cooking them slowly without breaking 
them, then take them off the fire, and mix with them a hand- 
ful of muscatel raisins and half the quantity of preserved 
lemon-peel cut into small dice. Whilst this is cooking have 
ready some short paste, and divide it into eight parts, which 
roll on a floured board into strings the thickness of macaroni. 
Butter a dome-shaped mould, then take one of the strings, 
and place the end of it in the centre of the mould ; continue 
thus with the rest of the paste ; then fill up the mould with 



FRUITS 5 

the apples, which cover with a flat of the paste, and bake 
for fifty minutes. Turn out in a dish, and mask over it with 
a layer of apricot jam. 

Apple Trifle 

Whip up the yolks of four eggs with a little castor sugar, 
into which pour a pint of hot milk ; then put these into a 
stewpan, and stir over the fire till it begins to thicken, then 
turn it out into a pie-dish to cool, having added a teaspoon- 
ful of brandy. Have ready a pint of apple sauce, sweetened 
and flavoured with lemon, into which whip the whites of the 
four eggs, after beating them till quite stiff. When all is 
well whipped pile on a glass dish, and pour the custard 
round, scattering ratafias over it, and then co\'ering the 
whole with cream. 

APRICOTS 

Apricots may be grown from kernel or from 
budding, but it is really best to buy young trees 
from some known good florist. Apricot trees are 
trained against walls, and the time to plant is 
October, when they should be carefully planted on 
a southern or western wall in well prepared and 
readily manured soil. They are very free growers, 
requiring plenty of room, and should be planted from 
12 to 15 feet apart, nailing the young branches to 
the wall. 

If the weather be propitious, in March the 
branches should be unnailed, and the head of the 
tree cut off with a sharp knife, and cut back each 
shoot to about five eyes above the bud ; but if the 
weather is severe, this pruning must be postponed 
a little later. In the spring, if the weather be dry, 
the trees must be watered by hoeing a little circle 
round the roots and pouring water in. When heat 



6 GARDENING 

and drought set in, some covering should be placed 
round the roots to keep out the drought. 

All weak shoots should be cut away in the 
spring and summer, and all new branches nailed 
horizontally to the wall, and in the autumn, when 
the trees have done growing, the branches should 
be unnailed and the vigorous branches cut off to 
eight or nine inches long, and the weaker ones to 
five. When the shoots are shortened they should 
be nailed again as straight as possible, but great 
care must be used every year not to injure the 
spurs of the preceding year's growth, to shorten 
branches at the winter pruning in such a manner as 
to throw out fresh wood in every part of the tree, 
and to cut away all superfluous wood. 

Frost and wasps are deadly enemies to apricots. 
When there are showers in the daytime and frost 
follows in the night, a light net should be put on for 
protection, but it is best to remove the net in the 
daytime. For the wasps some wide- mouthed bottles 
should be tied among the branches, filled with beer 
and a spoonful of gin, with a piece of paper over 
the mouth and a hole pierced in the centre for them 
to crawl in ; the bottom of the paper should have 
preserve smeared over it. The fruit should be 
thinned when large enough to make tarts of. This 
thinning may be twice done, when the apricots 
should be about four to five inches apart. 

A good mulching to the roots is good when 
the fruit is swelling, and afterwards liquid manure 
given at its last growth. The best kinds to grow 
are Moor Park, Red Muscadine, The Royal, 
and Museh Muscle. 

The fruit of the apricot is best picked before it 
is quite ripe. 



FRUITS 7 

RECIPES 

Abricots en Surprise 

Cut some pound cake into little rounds with a pastry 
cutter, and place them on a glass dish. Halve some apricots 
and stew till tender ; add a little sugar to the juice of the 
apricots, and boil till a thick syrup. Dip each of the httle 
rounds of cake in it, and place half an apricot on each. 
Whip some cream, and place it around the apricot in a 
circle ; it can easily be done with a teaspoon. This dish 
represents poached eggs. 

Apricot Fritters 

Take some apricots, cut them in halves, and dust them 
with sugar and a few drops of rum ; then dip singly each 
apricot in good frying batter, and fry them in good boiling 
clarified dripping. Drain them, dust them liberally with 
castor sugar, and glaze them with a salamander. 

BARBERRIES 

This, if possible, should be in every garden, as 
being so ornamental, it can be placed in a pleasure 
ground. It requires very little culture and will 
grow in any soil and situation, and does not require 
pruning except to keep it within bounds. The 
fruit is fully ripe in October, and should be gathered 
in entire bunches for preserving, candying, and 
pickling for garnish. 

Barberry trees are subject to a fungus which 
grows on the bark, called Puccinise. Syringing 
w^ith lime-water is the only cure. 

The best kind to grow is the common red, 
without stones. 



8 GARDENING 

RECIPES 

Barberries, to Candy 

Choose some fine bunches, and hang them for a quarter 
of an hour in a jug of boiling water ; then remove them 
carefully, and simmer in boiling syrup made with two 
pounds of sugar and one pint of water ; then draw the 
syrup from the fire, and let the bunches remain in it for 
some hours. Then hang them up to drain and dry, and 
when dry put them away carefully in boxes. 

Barberries, to Pickle, for Garnishing 

Gather the barberries in clusters before they are quite 
ripe, and cover them in strong brine, made by boiling a 
quarter of a pound of salt with each pint of water, adding a 
mite of alum. The brine must not be put on till quite cold. 
Put into bottles and store in a cool place. 

BULLACE 

These are very hardy trees, and bloom in April. 
They grow best in a chalky soil. 

The Drap d'Or is the best variety. 

The Alba, or White Bullace, is very good also. 

This fruit is excellent when preserved. It is 
very luscious and finely flavoured. The fruit is 
small and round. It is generally ripe in October, 
but will hang longer, and the flavour is much im- 
proved if the fruit hangs till just touched by the 
frost. 



FRUITS ' 9 

RECIPES 
Bullace Solid 

Skin, core, and quarter one pound and a quarter of good 
boiling apples ; put them in a preserving-pan with one 
pound of bullace juice, extracted from the fruit by placing 
them in a cool oven over night ; then add a pound of castor 
sugar, and when the sugar has dissolved boil for another ten 
minutes ; then put it into small moulds. 

Compote of Bullace 

Make half a pint of syrup with half a pound of loaf sugar 
and a quarter of a pint of water ; let it boil till thick ; flavour 
with a dessertspoonful of brandy. When the syrup is boiled 
and thick, drop in one by one a pint of bullaces and simmer 
till soft, taking care that they do not break. Remove them 
from the syrup, and give that a boil up again, and when 
cool pour over the bullaces, and whip some cream over all. 

THE CRANBERRY 

This is seldom grown in private gardens, as it 
will only grow in moist soil or peat earth. It 
succeeds well on the muddy margin of a pond. 
Johnson writes that an artificial compost may be 
made for it, where the soil or situation is not suit- 
able, by mixing one-third peaty earth, one-third 
leaf soil, and one-third sandy loam or ordinary soil. 
It requires a great deal of watering. The shrubs 
require no other attention except being kept free 
from weeds, and a top dressing in November of 
rotten leaves. The American cranberry is easier to 
grow than the common English. The fruit is mostly 
used for tarts and jams and sauce. 



lo GARDENING 

RECIPES 
Compote of Cranberries 

Lay unbruised cranberries in fresh water ; then drain 
them well, and put two pounds of the fruit and half a pound 
of castor sugar into a preserving-pan, and cook slowly. 
Remove the berries, and boil the syrup till it s thick. Mix 
berries and syrup, and put into gallipots ; cover with papers 
steeped in brandy, and tie down closely. (German recipe.) 

Cranberry Sauce 

This is a very good accompaniment to roast turkey. 
Simmer the cranberries till soft in a little champagne ; then 
mix in liberally Devonshire cream. A little sugar may be 
mixed with it, but not much. 

CHERRIES 

Though the cherry is one of the earliest of all 
our hardy fruits, and flourishes freely, yet all soils 
do not suit it. It delights in a deep, rich, loamy 
soil, sandy but not clayey, a well -drained though 
moist soil, and some amount of shelter. Very little 
pruning is required until after a good head is 
formed in standards, but dwarf bushes and 
pyramids require more ; they do not require 
manure, except as a top dressing, till they are 
exhausted or heavily laden with fruit. 

Cherry trees require plenty of room and should 
be planted ten feet apart. The bush may be 
planted six feet apart. All varieties of cherries 
grow well against walls. 

The best varieties are May Duke, Bigar- 



FRUITS II 

reau, Black Heart, Kentish, best cooking, Morella. 
This last is a late cherry, and, not being sweet, it 
does not fall a prey to birds so much ; yet it is 
advisable to protect the trees in bearing with old 
fish netting. 

The Morella cherry is what is so much used in 
making cherry brandy. 



RECIPES 
Cherries a la Royal 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in a little milk for an hour, 
then add to it a pint of raw cream, which sweeten to taste, 
and stir over the fire till the gelatine is quite melted ; then 
stand it aside to cool ; then flavour with a few drops of 
Kirschwasser, and whip till it begins to get thick. Pour a 
thin layer of this to the bottom of a dish, and place on ice, 
and have ready some stewed cherries (stoned and sweetened) 
and arrange them liberally on the cream directly it begins 
to set. Then pour the remainder of the cream over them, 
and as this becomes firm form some pretty design on the 
top with more cherries. Keep on ice till required. 

Cherry Compote 

Stew some cherries in a small quantity of water, a glass- 
ful of claret, a little lemon rind, a couple of cloves, and some 
sugar ; when the cherries are soft remove them from the 
syrup, and boil the latter till thick. 

Cherry Fritters 

Stalk and stone the cherries, crack the stones, and put 
back the kernel into the fruit. Have ready some good fry- 
ing batter, dip the cherries in this, and fry in good butter 
till of a nice gold colour. Drain them well, and serve 
sprinkled with sugar and lemon juice. 



GARDENING 



CURRANTS 



It is much the wisest plan to buy young bushes, 
as propagating from cuttings takes longer before 
any fruit can be realised from them. 

Black currants suit a heavy clay land, but they 
will flourish and bear good crops anywhere, whether 
the soil be light or heavy, moist or dry, and in any 
aspect, in the open, or against a wall or fence. 

Red and white currants require a much lighter 
soil. 

Black currants require very little pruning. If the 
bushes are old it is only necessary to cut away 
old and weak wood, replacing it with young shoots 
from the bottom of the bushes. The suckers from 
the ground want encouragement, and if very 
crowded, they must be thinned out. 

Directly the leaves are off is the time to prune 
them. Leave in as much young wood as possible, 
and take a few of the old branches out occasion- 
ally, if they crowd the younger ones. The points 
of the young shoots should not be cut off, and 
rotted manure must be forked well in and about the 
roots after pruning. 

Black currants should be gathered as soon as 
they are ripe, or they will drop or shrivel and lose 
all goodness. 

Birds very rarely attack this fruit. 

Red and White Currants. — Both these are 
cultivated in the same way. The best soil for 
them is highly cultivated sandy soil, and should be 
pruned back severely near to the old wood. Three 
or four inches of the new wood only should be left 



FRUITS 13 

on the top of each branch. In the summer the 
thickest of the young growth should be removed, to 
let the sun ripen the fruit. Currants begin to ripen 
about June, but will hang on the tree a long time. 
The red will hang longest. 

Red and white currant bushes should be 
sprinkled with lime after a shower, or a syringe, when 
the buds begin to show, to keep the birds off. All 
red and white currant bushes should be covered 
with netting to keep them from their depreda- 
tions. 

Varieties. — The best varieties of currants are : 
Black : Black Naples and Ogden's Black, Lee's 
Prolific. 

Red: Red Dutch, The Cherry, very acid, 
Houghton Castle, Raby Castle, La Fertile, a 
heavy cropper, Wilmot's Long Bunched Red, 
Bunney's Large Red. 

White : Transparent, White Dutch, Pearl 
White. 

Caterpillars on Currant Trees. — Soapsuds, or 
a strong solution of soft soap and water with a dash 
of paraffin in, will clear them off in a couple of 
dressings. The soap and water should be two 
ounces of soap to a gallon and a half of water and 
a wineglassful of paraffin, and used warm. 

Green fly also affects black currant bushes. 
Then they should be syringed with two pounds of 
tobacco paper soaked thoroughly in hot water, and 
dissolve in it three pounds of soft soap, with 
sufficient warm water to make forty gallons, and 
well wash the trees with it in the evening at a 
temperature of 80 degrees. Early next morning 
drench the trees with cold water. Of course this 
quantity is for a large range of bushes. 



14 GARDENING 

RECIPES 
Black Currant Custard 

Take a breakfastcupful of black currants, and put them 
in a jar, closely covered, and placed in a pan of cold water, 
and simmered in the oven till the juice flows freely, and 
when quite hot pour it upon a quarter of a pound of loaf 
sugar, and stir till all is dissolved. Then put it into a sauce- 
pan, and add gradually to it the yolks of four eggs, well 
beaten. Stir over fire till it thickens, and then pour it out 
and stir till nearly cool, and add a gill of cream or more. 

Red and White Currant Salad 

Take a pound each of red and white currants, and take 
off their stalks ; then arrange them alternately in the centre 
of a glass dish ; pour in a wineglassful of curagoa over the 
currants, then cover with a layer of stiffly whipped and 
sweetened cream, and stand on ice for a few hours. 

DAMSONS 

These, being another variety of plum, are culti- 
vated as plums (which see under). They are best 
grown as standards. The Shropshire Damson is 
best to grow, as the flavour of the fruit is better 
than the Prune Damson, which is so commonly 
grown. Farleigh Damsons are also very good, and 
also the Cluster Damson. 



FRUITS 15 



RECIPE 

Damson Cheese Biscuits 

Boil some damsons in a stone jar ; when reduced to pulp 
press through a coarse sieve, and boil till it evaporates. 
Then add an equal weight of pounded sugar, and beat it 
till quite stiff, Make it into round flat cakes, and dry them 
in a cool oven. Turn them, and dry again ; then place them 
on papers on tin for storing. 

FIGS 

Fig trees will grow almost anywhere in a warm 
situation with plenty of hot sunshine. Any good 
light garden soil suits them, though a chalky loam 
is said to be best. 

Fig trees require less care in training and 
pruning than any other tree ; the ill-placed shoots 
should be removed by disbudding only. The fig 
requires to be well supplied with moisture. Soap 
suds thrown on to the roots of the trees are very 
beneficial to them. 

It is best to buy a tree, though the fig roots 
firmly from cuttings. The cuttings should be 
plunged in pots in a moderate hot-bed in January 
or February, and should be planted out when 
there is no danger of frost. 

It may be trained to any shape, and the long 
branches should be bent backwards and forwards 
to help them to make shoots and to cover the 
wall. 

In the winter the trees should be covered over 
with mats or straw before the time of severe frost, 



i6 GARDENING 

removing the mats as soon as it seems over. When 
the young figs are the size of nutmegs, the ends of 
the shoots should be nipped offand suckers destroyed 
from time to time. 

To force figs, plant cuttings taken from ripe 
wood about four inches long. Plant them in pots 
in January or February, and plunge the pots in a 
moderate brisk hot-bed with bottom heat, the plants 
raised well up to the glass. At the beginning the 
top-heat may range from 55 degrees by night to 65 
and 70 degrees in the daytime, the walls and 
paths being frequently damped down, and overhead 
syringings given in the morning and again at 
midday. From the very first the roots must be 
well watered with tepid water, and at the fruiting 
stage plenty should be given. All fig trees must be 
annually thinned out. These trees are apt to be 
infested with mealy bug or scale. They should be 
scrubbed with warm water, and then dressed with a 
mixture composed of gas-tar and thick clayey 
water in about equal parts. 

The best varieties to grow are the White 
Marseilles for forcing ; the Black and the Brown 
Ischia are the best for outdoor culture. The 
Brunswick is very green and very sweet, and very 
hardy for outdoor culture. 

The Malta is small and brown, and ripens by 
the end of August. 

The Green Ischia is very rich and delicious in 
flavour, and forces well. 

RECIPES 
Compote of Green Figs 

Boil half a pound of sugar with three-quarters of a pint 
of water, and the rind of half a small lemon ; skim, and 



FRUITS 17 

when it has boiled fifteen minutes put in a pint of green 
figs, and simmer very slowly till tender, and add a dessert- 
spoonful of port wine. Take out the figs, boil up the syrup 
and pour over the figs, and serve cold. 

Fig Tart 

Slice some good figs and put to them as much milk as 
will just cover them, and set them in a moderate oven to stew. 
.Stir in a small piece of butter, and sugar to taste. Line 
some pattypans with puff paste, and finish them in the same 
manner as mince pies. 

FILBERTS 

Any good ordinary soil agrees with nuts, if it 
does not hold too much stagnant moisture ; but a 
free light loam suits them best, with plenty of 
decayed leaf mould. It is better to buy the young 
trees than to try and propagate them oneself. The 
branches should be kept well thinned out, so that 
the sun and air can play freely among them. The 
strong, straight, vigorous growths that grow from 
the base of the trees, and all suckers, must be 
removed, as they weaken the trees and spoil the 
crops. 

The pruning should not take place till the 
blossoms show, which should be about the middle 
of February. The male blossom is the well-known 
catkin, and the female is of a pinkish or scarlet 
colour and like a very small brush, and which sit in 
a little cluster to the twiggy branches of the trees. 

In pruning, great care must be taken in regard 
to the blossoms ; scarcely a twig should be cut away 
containing them. 

Johnson says, ' Often filbert trees will possess 

C 



i8 GARDENING 

female blossoms with few or no male catkins,' and 
then there will be no crop unless means are taken 
to bring the male farina within their reach. 

Catkins must be sought about the period when 
the male dust is just beginning to burst, and then 
branches of them may be tied here and there 
amongst the bushes most needing them. 

Nuts should be thoroughly ripe before they are 
gathered and well dried before storing. They 
should be put into heaps for a week to sweat, and 
then exposed to the sun and air for another week, 
when they can be packed in jars in a cool, dry 
cellar with the husks on and covered down tightly 
to keep out damp. 

The flavour of red and white filberts is best. 
Kentish Cobs, Pearson's Prolific, Cosford, and the 
Merveille de Bolwyller are the best varieties to 
grow. 

RECIPE 

Filbert Custard (American) 

Shell half a pint of filberts, and boil them in boiling 
water for a few minutes, so that their skins can be rubbed 
off with a cloth. Then pound them in a mortar with just a 
little rosewater. When the nuts are a smooth paste put 
them into a jug with four yolks of eggs, a pint of milk, and 
about two ounces of powdered sugar ; put the jug into a 
saucepan with water, and stir over fire till the water in 
saucepan boils. Let the custard thicken, add a teaspoonful 
of madeira, and let get cold ; then serve. 

GOOSEBERRIES 

Gooseberry bushes succeed almost anywhere. 
The bushes should be planted in lines six feet apart. 



FRUITS 19 

and should annually be well pruned, and a careful 
thinning out of the branches by keeping the plants 
somewhat open in the centre. If this is not 
attended to, the branches become so crowded that 
it is almost impossible to gather the fruit. The 
best time for pruning is when the spring is fairly 
advanced and the buds are about to unfold, as the 
crops often fail from late spring frosts. The birds 
are great enemies when the buds are unfolding, and 
will strip the buds off; the best way, sprinkling 
lime over the trees after a shower of rain, or syring- 
ing the bushes and then sprinkling with the lime 
keeps the birds away ; but the greatest enemy of 
all is the gooseberry caterpillar, and a most careful 
watch should be kept upon the bushes during the 
early spring months. A decoction of Hellebore is 
the most effectual remedy. It should be about the 
strength of one pound of the powder to ten gallons 
of rain water, and should be allowed to stand at 
least twenty-four hours before being applied, when 
the bushes should be syringed with the garden 
syringe on a still evening. Two dressings of this 
generally are sufficient. A top dressing of half 
rotten manure early in May is advisable, and every 
other year in the autumn a trench should be dug 
round the bush, as far from the stem as the branches 
spread, the roots cut away beyond and filled in with 
a compost of good loam and cow manure. 

The best varieties are : Whinham's Industry, 
very abundant cropper ; Lancashire Lad (red) ; 
Red Turkey ; Old Scotch Red (hairy), best for jam 
and bottling ; Nutmeg, hairy ; Capper's Top 
Sawyer, red and large ; Cheshire Lass, white 
gooseberry ; Royal White (dessert) ; Whitesmith, 
white ; Champagne, yellow ; Shiner, green ; Cromp- 



20 GARDENING 

ton's Sheba Queen, white and excellent ; Hill's 
Golden Gourd, green and slightly hairy ; Smiling 
Beauty, first rate in quality, white ; Early Green, 
hairy ; Glenton, green. 

Caterpillars in Gooseberry bushes. — Goose- 
berry bushes are frequently attacked by caterpillars, 
and once they get on them it is difficult to get rid 
of them, except by hand-picking, which is a slow 
process. The magpie moth and the gooseberry 
and currant saw-fly deposit their eggs on the bushes, 
and the larvae feed on the leaves. When the larvae 
are full grown they descend into the earth and form 
pupai, from which flies emerge and again lay eggs. 
The pupae remain in the earth during the winter, 
and the only way is to clear away soil from under 
the bushes to the depth of three inches, and give a 
dressing of lime and manure ; the soil taken out 
should be burnt. It is a good plan during the 
month of February to coat entirely the bushes over 
with a mixture of lime, soot, and clay, made into the 
consistency of paint. Mix it with a little kitchen fat, 
and add to every half gallon of the mixture. Make 
the whole warm, and paint on with a small brush. 
This also prevents the birds picking out the buds. 



RECIPES 
Gooseberries a la Balfour 

Stew some gooseberries, and pass them through a sieve, 
and let them get cold ; then put them in a glass dish, and 
cover with custard, and whip up the whites of two eggs to a 
stiff froth, and that have been mixed lightly with castor 
sugar, and lay on the top ; bake for a few minutes till very 
pale brown, and strew shredded pistachio nut over it. 



FRUITS 



Green Gooseberry Trifle 

Cover the bottom of a deep glass dish with stale sponge 
cake cut in half-inch slices ; mix together one and a half 
spoonful of brandy and half a one of whisky, together with 
some sifted sugar, and pour over the cake and let it steep. 
Then simmer one quart of green gooseberries over a slow 
fire till quite tender, but not broken ; then turn them out to 
cool, adding a few drops of liquid sap-green (Mrs. Marshall's). 
Make a rich custard, flavoured with vanilla ; lay the goose- 
berries when quite cold, on the cake ; then pour the custard 
over all, and set it aside for three or four hours. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

GRAPES 

For the culture of grapes in a greenhouse, I 
would advise my readers to procure a book entirely 
on the subject, as in a little volume like this it 
would be impossible to do justice to them, and I 
therefore give only a few hints as regards the 
diseases vines are liable to, and recommend the 
best varieties : Old Black Hamburgh ; Golden 
Muscat of Alexandria, white ; Muscat Hambro' ; 
Lady Downes (black) ; Foster's Seedling ; Gros 
Colinau ; Gros Maroc. 

To obtain good Colour in Grapes. — The sun's 
rays should not penetrate directly on black grapes. 
The less direct sunshine on the glass they get, the 
better, as the colour is put on the grapes by the 
action of the leaves ; therefore a large amount of 
foliage over them will make them a finer colour. 

White grapes look much better when they are 



22 GARDENING 

of a rich gold colour, and therefore the foliage of 
these can be drawn aside with soft matting, just 
enough to let the sun play on the branches. Do 
not cut off the foliage. 

Mildew on Grapes. — The general cause of 
mildew on grapes is draught. When the vines 
receive a chill, which they often do if the ventilators 
are both opened at the same time, when the sun is 
shining in April and easterly winds are about, and 
the chill creates a fungus on the branches, berries, 
and stems of the vine, and the evil occurs when the 
vines are in an early stage. 

Another cause of mildew is if the borders are 
too dry, and a high day temperature is kept up, it 
will show itself To eradicate this, paint the vines 
thoroughly over with sulphur mixed with water, to 
the consistency of paint ; and when the berries have 
completed the stoning process, paint the main 
stems again, and if any signs of mildew are apparent 
on the leaves they should be sprinkled on those 
parts with sulphur. Scatter sulphur about the vinery 
anywhere in dry places. Painting the hot water 
pipes with sulphur when they are made hot, has a 
beneficial check on the spread of it. Until the 
berries begin to colour, air ought not to be admitted 
through the front ventilators. 

Mealy-bug on Vines.— Take ten ounces of 
Gishurst compound, dissolved in a gallon of boiling 
water and used at a temperature of 1 20 degrees, 
and well brush into the crevices round the spurs ; 
and do this a second time to make sure. 

All loose bark should be moved before washing 
the rods. 

A dressing of lemon-oil insecticide, mixed with 
rain water and applied with a brush, working it 



FRUITS 23 

well into all the cracks and crevices of the vine 
rods. After pruning vines, the safest dressing is a 
mixture of four ounces of soft soap to a gallon of 
warm water, heated to 120 degrees, with half-a- 
pound of flowers of sulphur added to it, with a little 
soot. 

If the vines are badly attacked, the whole 
interior of the house should be thoroughly washed 
with soft soapy water, and again with clear water, 
and then give two coats of paint. Some of the 
soil should also be removed and peat soil put in 
its place, as the mealy-bug will descend and live 
beneath the soil in cold weather. 



RECIPE 
Grapes in Brandy 

Choose large bunches of grapes, see that they are sound, 
and prick each grape in three places, and lay them in a 
deep earthen jar. Cover them with white sugar-candy, 
well crushed, and fill up the jar with brandy ; secure the jar 
down with a bladder, and keep in a cool dry place. — Cassell. 



GREENGAGES 

Greengages, being a variety of the plum, are 
treated in the same manner as plum trees. ^ The 
best varieties are : Guthrie's Late Green, for dessert ; 
Bryanston Greengage ; Reine Claude, Lucombe's 
Nonsuch, and Greengage. 

• See Plums. 



24 GARDENING 

RECIPE 

Greengage Souffle 

Peel, stone, and cut in pieces about two dozen green- 
gages, and put them in a saucepan with three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, half a small teacupful of cold water, and a dozen 
of the kernels, blanched and chopped very fine. Simmer 
gently till the fruit is reduced to a pulp, then mix in very 
gradually three tablespoonfuls of ground rice, one ounce of 
butter, and a breakfastcupful of milk. Bring to the boil, 
then draw the pan on one side, and stir in the yolks of four 
eggs, and the whites after they have been whisked to a stiff 
froth. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled souffle, and bake 
in a brisk oven for about half an hour. Dust a little sugar 
over the top, and serve quickly. 

MEDLARS 

This tree is ornamental and looks well in plea- 
sure grounds. Its branches generally droop and 
form a fine round-headed tree ; the blossom is a 
pretty pinkish white ; it thrives in any soil or situ- 
ation that is fairly moist, and in planting them 
there is no more difference than in planting any 
other shrub. They require pruning of the thin 
superfluous wood, and they like a deep rich soil, 
and when old their roots should be well dressed 
over with manure. 

Standard medlars must be managed in having 
their heads formed like standard plums. 

The fruit should be gathered when fully 
matured, that is, when it shrivels and is in a state 



FRUITS 25 

of decay, which is generally in November. After 
gathering they should be spread out singly, the 
open side downwards, in a bed of sand. As medlars 
are apt to get mouldy a good preventative is to 
dip the stalk ends in a strong brine of common salt 
and water. 

RECIPE 

Medlar Jelly 

Take a pound of ripe medlars, remove all stalks, and put 
them with a pint of water in a stewpan and simmer till the 
fruit begins to break, but not long enough to make the 
liquor red ; pour into a jelly bag and let the juice drain very 
slowly ; then weigh the juice and let it boil by itself for ten 
minutes, and then add ten ounces of sugar to each pound of 
juice. Boil and stir well, take off the scum as it rises, and 
in twenty minutes it can be put into small glass moulds. • 



MELONS 

In growing melons there is a great difference 
as to earliness of growth, as a melon with a thick 
skin takes much longer than a thin-skinned one. 

For early fruiting a yellow-skinned variety is 
best ; for mid-season the green flesh. 

A gardener recommends as the best plan to 
plant in frames in January in eighteen-inch pots, 
and plunge into the hot bed, and place one pot on 
another one, inverted so as to prevent the large one 
sinking down. Then make a rough trellis twelve 
inches from the glass, and train the vine so as to 
get all the sunlight possible. 

To sow the seeds, sow in three-inch pots in good 
loam with a little charcoal refuse in a brisk heat, 



26 GARDENING 

and when the third leaf is out plant at once in the 
pots, if the soil is in a nice warm condition. They 
should be planted firmly. 

Frequent waterings with liquid manure after the 
fruits are secure and swelling will be necessary ; and 
a high temperature with no air, for early fruits. 

For amateurs it is far best to buy the plants. 

It is not necessary for later melons, to make up a 
great pile of manure in the summer — if the weather 
is seasonable just a little bottom heat is enough to 
start the melons. In planting keep the leaves well 
above the soil, showing a clear stem, which pre- 
vents canker, to which melons are subject. 

Tepid water should be given as required, and 
the plants syringed over head about 3 P.M. every 
fine day for a few days, when the flowers are 
expanding, till the fruit is set. Air should be ad- 
mitted to the frame when the thermometer rises 
above 70°, and allowing it to run up to 80° with 
air on, and closing it at 75°. When the roots are 
through the mounds of soil, cover with two inches 
more soil, which should be made warm before it 
comes in contact with them. 

Keep the stem free of leaves, as it prevents 
canker affecting that part. After the first two or 
three days of planting, no shade should be given, as 
they are all sun-loving plants and can never have 
too much. 

Do not give much water at first, and it 
should be tepid after the first three weeks. The 
soil should not be wetted within a circle of six 
inches round the stems, or canker may set in ; and 
after the growth reaches the side of the frame, give 
most of the water near those parts. When the 
plants have made six inches each, pinch off the tops. 



FRUITS 27 

When the plants are six inches high pinch out 
the point of the growth. When the side branches 
have grown one foot long, pinch out the points 
again. The shoots should never be crowded and 
the weakly ones should be removed entirely. 

When the fruit buds are in full flower, they 
should be impregnated with pollen from the male 
blossoms upon the plant, at the same time. Male 
blooms are simply flowers, only the fruit blossoms 
are at the end of a small fruit. 

If one or two fruits show in advance of the others, 
pinch them off, as, if you want a large crop of fruit 
the flowers should open at one time. Those shoots 
which show no fruit should be removed, and those 
with fruit showing allowed to grow without stop- 
ping. When the fruits are the size of a hen's (igg 
place them on an inverted flower-pot. Six fruits 
are as many as a strong plant can swell to a 
suitable size. 

Ventilation. — A little air should be given at 8 
A.M., and close the frame in dull weather at 3 P.M. ; 
but when the sun is hot and bright it should not be 
closed till 5 o'clock, and at the same time damp the 
foliage and the side of the frame with warm water. 
Sometimes in very hot weather it is well to place 
a double thickness of fish-net over the glass, to 
prevent the sun scorching the leaves. The roots 
should be watered once a week when the weather 
is dry and hot, and once in ten days when it is cool 
and moist. 

Canker in Melons is generally caused by damp 
and cold, and moisture settling round the stem of 
the plant. Therefore the collar of the plant should 
be placed high on the summit of a slight mound, 
to keep them comparatively dry. To get rid of it 



28 GARDENING 

a brisk heat should be maintained, and water with- 
held for a few days ; and as a preventive a mixture 
of charcoal and brickdust, with the addition of a 
little quicklime, placed round the affected parts, 
which should be changed when it becomes damp. 

Varieties. — Eastnor Castle ; Cantaloups, the 
Cantaloups are both round and oblong, plain and 
netted ; the Orange ; the Montagnes ; Valentia, or 
Winter ; Persians ; Rock's Scarlet-fleshed ; Rock's 
Green-fleshed ; Green-flesh Beech wood ; Small 
green-fleshed Egyptian — very exquisite flavour ; 
New Lockinge, green flesh ; Golden Perfection, 
scarlet, green, and red ; Sutton's Scarlet Invinci- 
ble ; Veitch's The Countess ; Hero of Lockinge ; 
are some of the best to grow. 



RECIPE 
Melon Fritters 

Cut the melon into strips two inches long and an inch 
wide ; remove the seeds and the rind, and put the melon 
into a basin, and sprinkle it with castor sugar and finely 
chopped lemon rind. Let it remain for about an hour, and 
then drop each piece of melon separately into a batter made 
in the following way. Put into a basin two ounces of Vienna 
flour and the raw yolk of an ^^'g and half a tablespoonful of 
salad oil. Then add about three tablespoonfuls of cold water 
and mix until quite smooth. Whip the whites of two eggs 
until they are quite stiff, and add them to the batter, stirring 
it lightly. Fry the melon when covered with the batter, for 
ten or twelve minutes in clear hot grease, till a pretty golden 
colour ; and after draining the fritters, arrange them in a pile 
and sprinkle castor sugar over them. 



FRUITS 29 



THE MULBERRY 



Mrs. Loudon says that the mulberry has several 
peculiarities in its habits which distinguish it from 
other trees, and one is that it can be propagated by 
truncheons, that is, if a large limb of a tree be cut 
off and stuck into the ground it will grow without 
any further trouble being taken with it, and pro- 
bably the next year or the year after it will bear 
abundance of fruit The mulberry is also later 
than any other tree in coming into leaf ; but when 
it does, the leaves are expanded and the young 
fruit is formed in a very short time. Having had, 
unfortunately, no experience with mulberry trees, 
I cannot do better than quote Mrs. Loudon's 
information. 

She says that old mulberry trees frequently 
split in five or six different parts, each of which in 
time becomes surrounded with bark, so that a very 
old and thick trunk appears changed into five or six 
slender ones. The branches also, if they lie along 
the ground, take root and become trees ; and that 
if an old mulberry tree is blown down, every branch 
sends roots into the ground, and in a very short 
time becomes a mulberry tree ; and even when 
apparently dead it may be resuscitated most times 
by cutting it down to just above the collar, when it 
will send up a number of young stems which will 
soon be covered with the fruit. 

Mulberry trees will grow in any ordinary 
garden or field, if not too clayey. They do not 
require manuring till they grow old and cease pro- 



30 GARDENING 

ducing wood, when a rich mellow compost should 
be used as occasional top dressing. 

In the summer the grosser shoots should be 
stopped, and thinned out for the sun to penetrate. 
They do not require much pruning in the winter. 
The cross shoots should be taken out wherever 
they are crowded. No shortening is required 
except the branches become over-rampant. The 
best time for cutting truncheons is in February. 
They should be placed a foot deep in the earth, 
and moss rolled round all the portion which is 
above ground, except the upper pair of buds, in 
order to avoid evaporation. Mulberry trees bear 
forcing excellently, and the fruit will ripen in 
June. 

This tree will bear a very high temperature, and 
it may be grown also as dwarfs in pots, and forced. 

RECIPE 
Mulberry Cream 

Take a pound of mulberries and stew them in their own 
juice, and one pound of cane sugar. When soft, rub them 
through a hair sieve, and have ready a pint of whipped 
cream and pour the juice into the cream ; add a gill of 
gelatine that has been soaked in milk and rubbed through a 
sieve ; pour gradually in, and then mould. 



NECTARINES 

This delicious fruit should be grown either 
against south or south-west walls in the open air, 
and trained to a fair shape. Planting nectarine 
trees is best at the beginning of November. The 



FRUITS 31 

soil should be moderately rich, quite sweet, free 
sandy loam and thoroughly well-drained. The 
roots must never be where there is stagnant 
moisture, yet they must be kept watered till the 
time, whether growing, blooming, or fruiting. In 
planting, keep the collar of the trees high, spread 
the roots out well and near the surface, and make 
and keep the soil quite firm. The young shoots 
must be thinned out severely during spring and 
summer, leaving them at a distance of six inches 
apart, as they must not be crowded, or they will not 
bear fruit. If the knife is used, much gumming 
and canker will follow. 

The fruit should be thinned out to six inches 
apart if it sets thickly, and the blossoms ought to 
be protected from cold winds and frost while ex- 
panded and setting ; some thin tiffany over at night 
is a good preventative. 

Mulching the roots with stable manure during 
the summer months, with a slight top dressing of 
soot, is very necessary. 

The best varieties are : — Elrouge, very delicious 
flavour ; Pitmaston Orange, very juicy and sweet ; 
Violette Hative, very good indeed ; Roman, full 
flavoured and very large. 

Nectarines are very seldom eaten in any other 
way than in their natural state ; if dressed, anyway 
in which peaches are prepared would be preferred. 



PEACHES 

Peaches require a dry subsoil, and the borders 
must neither be very deep, damp, nor rich. The 
soil should not exceed two feet, and must be well 



32 GARDENING 

drained. Brickbats strewed over the bottom and 
then covered with cinders and some decayed leaves, 
is one of the best ways for preparing the soil. 

They require top dressing every year, in May. 
The blossoms require protection early in the spring, 
and disbudding, which is best performed gradually, 
and which is done by using a sharp, small-bladed 
knife, and cutting off all shoots which tend back- 
wards and forwards, taking care not to go too near 
the tree so as to injure it. Disbudding should be 
completed a little before midsummer ; but I advise 
all amateurs to have a skilful gardener to come and 
do the disbudding, which will answer as a lesson for 
the future. 

Pruning will have to be done in the autumn. 
Thinning the fruit is very necessary, and must be 
done at several times, and most carefully, so as not 
to disturb the fruits. The first thinning should be 
done when the peach is about the size of a cob-nut, 
the second thinning when the size of a walnut, and 
the last as soon as the stone is hard. 

It is best, of course, to have a skilful gardener 
to prune peach and nectarine trees ; but if an 
amateur wishes to prune, it should not be done 
before the bloom-buds are distinguishable, as, before 
that, there is a risk of shortening back the branches 
to a bloom-bud, which causes the destruction of 
that particular shoot. In pruning back young 
shoots, it is necessary to cut back to a wood-bud 
to preserve it ; and if a wood-bud cannot be found, 
any other point than at the end. It should be left its 
whole length. A wood-bud from a blossom-bud is 
known by the latter being long and pointed, the 
former nearly round. 

The chief point in successful peach culture is to 



FRUITS 33 

keep the wood thin, firm, short- pointed, and to 
ensure its being properly ripened towards the 
autumn. With a Httle care in protecting the trees 
from early frosts and cold winds in the spring, 
there is very little uncertainty about their growth. 

Peaches som.etimes are infested by red spider. 
If walls are old and full of holes, wash them with 
Portland Cement mixed with enough water to 
make a thick paint, and work it well into any holes 
or cracks. 

If the walls are good, paint with a mixture of 
I lb. flowers of sulphur, 2 lb. fresh lime, i^ lb. soft- 
soap, boiled together in four gallons of water, then 
add three gallons more before using. Also dress 
the trees with some strong soot water thickened 
with clay, and to every gallon of this mixture add 
I lb. flowers of sulphur and 2 oz. soft soap, and 
throroughly scrub all wood and iron work. 

When the peaches are growing in a house, if there 
are two or three slates painted on one side with 
sulphur mixed with milk and hung so that the 
sun's rays fall on them direct through the glass, 
the fumes given off from them are very distasteful 
to these pests. 

Peach Trees in a House. — Ventilation and 
Watering. — Syringe gently as soon as the fruit is 
set, and as the fruit and leaves grow larger the 
syringe may be applied more vigorously. If the 
trees are trained to a wall or on wires the syringe 
must be applied sideways, so as to get the water to 
reach the underside of the leaves. 

When the sun is very bright, the ventilators 
need not be closed till 5 P.M. ; otherwise they 
should be at 4. 

The trees should always be syringed at closing 

D 



34 GARDENING 

time ; and in very hot weather damp the foHage 
again at dusk, so that the leaves may remain moist 
all night. They should be open at 7 A.M., so that 
the foliage may dry before the sun gets on it. It 
is a good plan to syringe the wall and woodwork 
three or four times a day. 

To Ripen Peaches on a Wall. — Keep the 
young growth thin, so that the fruits are well 
exposed to the sun. After the stoning is completed 
and they show signs of colouring, the trees should 
be looked over and all leaves overhanging the fruit 
should be tied back, or a few leaves may be 
removed ; or cut part of the leaves away. In dry 
weather peach trees on a south wall should be 
watered with a hand syringe. Should black fly 
attack the points of the shoots, dust the parts 
affected with tobacco powder and the following 
morning syringe vigorously. 

Peaches are subject to ' the gum,' mildew, and 
blistered leaves. 

The best time to gather peaches is when they are 
firmly grasped by the hand, and, with a slight 
backward pull, they will part from the tree. A pad 
of cotton wool laid in the hand is sometimes used. 
Peaches are generally fit for gathering when there 
is a change of colour near the base of the fruit. 
The early morn is the best time to gather them, 
and, if put away on cotton wool, they will keep 
from three to five days. They are always better 
for eating twelve hours after gathering. 

Peaches gumming.— This is generally caused 
by the branches having been tied too tightly, 
checking the regular flow of sap, and the bark 
swells about the ligature ; also the young shoots 
coming into close contact with freshly galvanised 



FRUITS 



35 



wire will do it. The wire should be painted. A 
dressing of lime is good for this. 

Varieties. — The best kinds to grow are : Alex- 
ander, a very hardy and capital grower in the open, 
large, well coloured, and highly flavoured ; Early 
Grosse Mignonne, which is handsome and good ; 
Alfred, a very good sort ; A Bee ; Stirling Castle ; 
Belle Beauce ; Bellegarde,good for houses and walls ; 
Alexandra Noblesse ; Violette Hative ; Dymond, 
hardy and fine ; Malta, delicious flavour ; Waterloo 
is a splendid all-round kind for in or out of doors ; 
Royal George, mid-season. Noblesse and Violette 
Hative, Barrington, Princess of Wales, Walburton, 
Admiral, Sea Eagle, and Golden Eagle, are the best 
late kinds. 



RECIPES 
Flanc de Peches 

Make some good syrup ; stone the peaches and fill in the 
spaces with vanilla cream ; boil up the syrup reduced to the 
consistency of thick cream, strain it, and when cool pour over 
the fruit. Blanch and cut in quarters some pistachio kernels, 
and stick the peaches all over with them. Dish up on a 
circle of lemon jelly and fill up the centre with glace fruits. 

Brandy Peaches 

Take ten pounds of very large peaches without flaw and 
just barely ripe ; remove the stones, breaking the peaches as 
little as possible ; put the peaches into a pan of boiling water, 
into which throw a few at a time ; let them remain several 
minutes, then take and with a coarse towel rub off every 
particle of fur, and put them into a jar ; sprinkle on castor 
sugar, allowing three ounces, and two of sugar candy, to 
every pound of fruit ; put in some of the kernels. Let them 

D 2 



36 GARDENING 

remain till morning, then put in enough pale brandy to cover 
the peaches, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water over 
a quick fire, and directly the brandy reaches simmering 
point, which it should do in a quarter of an hour, set aside 
to get cool. Then bottle it and fill up the bottles with brandy. 
Tie down and store in a cool dry place. 

Frosted Peaches 

Take six ripe peaches, the whites of two eggs, whisked 
to a stiff froth, two tablespoonfuls of water, and one cup of 
castor sugar. Put the water and the beaten whites together ; 
rub off the fur of the peaches with a clean soft cloth, put the 
water and beaten whites together and dip in each peach, 
then roll in the powdered sugar. Set them up on the stem 
end upon a sheet of white paper on a tray in a sunny window, 
and when half dry roll again in the sugar ; expose to the 
sun and fresh air till quite dry; then when required they can 
be arranged on a glass dish and garnished with green 
leaves, 

PEARS 

The pear flourishes best in a sound loam, rather 
Inclining to clay. In sandy loam the fruit is apt to 
crack or become otherwise disfigured. For standard 
trees the soil should be at least two feet deep, but 
for espaliers, pyramids and walls, half a yard will 
do if sound. A dry subsoil is especially necessary 
for garden pears. 

The chief point in pear culture is to keep down 
watery spray ; but this must not be done too early, 
or embryo blossom buds may be driven into growth. 
In the beginning of May disbudding should be 
commenced, and all gross foreright shoots must 
be stripped away and several of the more luxuriant 
shoots, where too thick and thin, in a month or two. 



FRUITS 37 

The points from all growing shoots should be 
pinched ; this is generally done about the middle 
of August. 

The spurs on a pear tree should be short and 
far apart, and they must be cut out where they are 
too crowded, and where they are too long they may 
be shortened. 

Pears must be continually thinned out, yet this 
must not be begun too early ; but as soon as the 
pears swell and in the slightest degree seem to 
crowd each other, then begin to thin out. 

It is best, until the amateur is proficient, to hire 
a gardener for the summer and autumn pruning. 

Pears should not be picked unripe, for they then 
shrivel ; yet late pears must not bd; .allowed to 
hang too long. When pears are ripe enough to 
gather they are best kept by wrapping each fruit 
carefully in paper ; pack them in boxes or 
barrels and store them in a dry cellar where the 
temperature is fairly equal. 

To tell when a pear is ripe lift it up in the hand 
and bring just a little pressure to bear on the stalk ; 
and if ripe enough to gather, the least pressure 
brought to bear on the junction of the stalk with 
the tree will cause a separation. 

Picking all the fruit on a tree on the same day 
should not be permitted. Each fruit has but two or 
three days in which it should be gathered, and if 
plucked before this it will shrivel ; if too late it 
will fall on the ground and be bruised. 

Pears should be constantly looked over, and all 
shrivelled and rotting fruit removed at once. There 
are several species of pears which require warmth 
to finish their ripening and to give them their full 
flavour ; and just a week before they are wanted 



38 GARDENING 

they may be placed in a greenhouse with the tem- 
perature at 60°, or they may be kept on the dining- 
room mantel-piece at that same temperature. 

Some good kinds of pears are here given : 

Early Pears. — Doyenne d'Ete, an early and best 
kind (this pear should be gathered before it is ripe) ; 
Citron des Carmes, dessert pear ; Belle de Brusselle ; 
Beurre Giffard, August ; Jargonelle, one of the best 
of the early pears (the fruit should be gathered 
before it is fairly ripe), in season in August ; 
Madame Solanges, fruit green, flushed with red, in 
season in August ; Williams' Bon Chretien, very 
high flavour ; St Swithins, August and September ; 
Souvenir du Congres, very large and handsome ; 
Beurre de I'Assumption, musk flavour. 

Late Pears. — Josephine de Malines ; Beurre 
France, very sweet and juicy ; Chaumontel, very 
delicious flavour ; Crassane ; Knight's Monarch, a 
first-rate winter pear, and grows best on a wall ; 
Ne Plus Meuris, small, but free cropper ; Winter 
Nelus, free cropper and russetty ; Glou Morceau, 
one of the very best pears (it does not do on a dry 
soil) ; Duchesse d'Augouleme, very large ; Rich 
Doyenne, small ; Louise Bonne of Jersey ; Cale- 
basse Tougarel ; Passe Colmar, very juicy and rich 
flavoured ; Easter Beurre, a splendid pear ; Beurre 
Ranee ; Josephine de Malines, a good keeper. 

Stewing Pears. — Gilogil, very prolific, October ; 
General Todleben, for stewing or dessert ; Bellis- 
sime d'Hiver ; Black Pear of Worcester ; Catillac 
(or Bon Chretien d'Amiens) ; Lieutenant Poitevin — 
they can be used for cooking, a most delicious 
flavour ; St. Germain ; Belle Angevine, grand stew- 
ing pear ; Duchesse de Berry, grand stewing pear ; 
Rivedale's Warden, grand stewing pear ; Vicar of 



FRUITS 39 

Winkfield, or Bon Cure, a large and heavy cropper, 
ripe in December and January. 

Storage of Pears. — A cool, moderately dry 
room or cellar is the best to keep them in, and 
where frost does not. penetrate. Spread the fruit 
out in layers, either on the floor or on shelves, and 
do not use straw. A dark room is best, or else 
cover the fruit with two or three sheets of news- 
paper. A little air for the first two or three weeks 
will be beneficial, but not after. Choice pears may 
be each one wrapped in paper and ranged one layer 
deep in shallow boxes, and then one box at a time 
can be removed to a warmer temperature to ripen 
thoroughly. 

RECIPES 
Chocolate Pears 

Parboil some pears in sugar and water, and put them into 
a baking dish well sprinkled with sugar, and bake till soft. 
The sugared water is reduced to a cupful, and a spoonful of 
cream and a tablet of vanilla chocolate must be added to the 
liquid ; pour this liquid over the pears, reheated in the oven 
and served hot. — ' Farm, Field and Fireside.' 

Purde de Poires a la Gelee 

Stew four pears with a little water and sugar, and when 
soft pass them through a sieve, colour w ith carmine and add 
a little dissolved gelatine. Coat some small pear-shaped 
moulds with lemon jelly, set them on ice, then fill them with 
the pear puree. Whip some of the jelly on ice till cold, and 
pile it in the centre of the dish. When the moulds are firm, 
turn them out and stand them round the jelly and sprinkle 
with chopped pistachio nuts. — Mrs. Miller. 



40 GARDENING 



PINEAPPLES 

It is, of course, necessary that pineapples be 
grown in a hothouse. They are very easily grown 
either in pots or planted out in beds where the 
bottom heat can be kept steady. The bed should 
be made of some fermenting substance, such as oak 
leaves, or, better still, tanners' bark. They thrive 
best in a house where there are two rows of hot- 
water pipes under the beds. The bottom heat 
should be always 85°, and the top heat up to 70° 
at night. 

The stock is kept up by suckers when a pine 
plant has produced one fruit. Suckers are thrown 
up, and when they are about twelve inches long 
and have formed some roots, they should be pulled 
up clean and potted firmly in six-inch pots, or in 
beds in a compost of decayed manure, with some 
broken charcoal in it. 

If planted in pots they will require shifting to ten- 
inch ones, when the suckers have well filled the first 
pots. Immediately after potting do' not give much 
w^ater. When the fruits show, liquid manure should 
be given at every watering ; a thin shading of canvas 
will be beneficial for a couple of hours each day, if 
the sun is very bright. The syringe must be freely 
used among successions, and they must be carefully 
ventilated, but cold draughts avoided ; a little air 
may be given when the thermometer rises up to 
80°. They should be closed and damped down 
early in the afternoon. The best soil for pines is 
rough turfy loam, enriched with good manure and 
a sprinkling of soot. The best kinds to grow are : 



FRUITS 41 

The Queen ; Ripley Queen ; St. Vincent, and Black 
Jamaica. 

Very few people with small gardens, and no 
first-rate gardeners, ever dream of growing pines ; 
but there is no reason that amateurs should not 
try, if they have the appurtenances, and after study- 
ing the proper way of growing them. 



RECIPES 
Entremet of Pineapple 

Take two and a half ounces of flour, half-pint of cream, 
an ounce of butter, and the yolks of four eggs ; put these 
into astewpan and cook over the fire for a few minutes ; then 
take it from the fire and mix in two more eggs, and the 
white of eggs whisked to a stiff froth ; add a cupful of pine- 
apple puree, then place in a mould and bake for an hour and 
a half. Boil the peel and use the liquor by adding the yolks 
of two more eggs, half a pint of sherry, one teaspoonful of 
potato flour, and a little sugar. Whisk over the fire and serve 
as sauce. 

Pineapple Fritters 

Make a thick and smooth batter with three-quarters of a 
pint of cream, the yolks and whites of three eggs beaten 
separately, a pinch of salt and sufficient flour to make it a 
proper consistency. Take the peel from the pineapple, cut 
it into slices and let them soak in two glasses of curacoa, 
mixed with two ounces of powdered sugar, for a few hours ; 
then dip the pieces into the batter, and fry them in boiling 
fat ; then drain them on a sieve before the fire, sift powdered 
sugar over them and serve quickly. 



42 GARDENING 



PLUMS 

Plums are very easily grown if the district is 
favourable to the growth of this fruit. The trees 
flourish best on a very stiff soil, where it can thrust 
its roots into harder and more compact masses of 
soil than either the apple or the pear. 

Plums are very hardy fruits, and bear especially 
well on walls. It is best to buy the young trees, 
whether standards, bushes, pyramids, or fan trained. 
Great care should be taken in the planting, as they 
should not be planted too near the surface, so that 
they get the full benefit of the surface soil and the 
manure dressings. 

The trees are best planted in the autumn, and 
by the following April they will make fresh roots, 
and the buds will show ; then the shoots should be 
cut back about three inches, and each shoot will 
throw out three or four shoots, which will form 
head enough. When the winter-time pruning comes, 
if there are not enough shoots to make a good 
head, the best must be cut back again to obtain 
more shoots. After that they only require to be 
looked over from time to time, and in the summer 
to disbud as they require. 

Plums on walls require great care in pruning 
and root pruning, as when they grow on walls they 
are at times spurred in too much, and too much 
young growth taken away. In pruning plums it 
is the better plan to lay in as much young well- 
matured wood, covered with fruit buds, as possible, 
as the young fruit produces the finest fruits ; so that 
every season as much young wood should be 



FRUITS 43 

secured as possible, but all the weaker and foreright 
shoots should be spurred. Wall plums should have 
their roots lifted every third year, in the autumn. 
Root pruning should be done one season, the strong 
roots cut, and lifting take place the following year. 

The best varieties are : 

Red — Angelina Burdett — this is a very good 
bearer and not subject to green fly, it is very juicy 
and is much improved by hanging till it shows 
signs of shrinking ; Belvoir, a black plum, little 
known, but good ; Kirkes is one of the best dessert 
plums ; Italian Prune, very good ; Aime Claude 
Violette, apricot or cherry ; De Montfort, very good 
plum for preserving ; Sultan, very fine ; Belgian 
Purple, a grand cropper ; Belle de Septembre ; 
Imperatrice, late kind, but very delicious ; Magnum 
Bonum, red ; Old Orleans, very useful,, sweet, and 
delicious ; Gistone's Victoria, large, juicy, and 
sweet. 

Yellozv — Coe's Golden Drop; White Impera- 
trice ; Pershore Egg ; St. Catherine ; Kelsey — is of 
immense size, a rich yellow colour, overspread with 
bright red bloom, melting, rich, and juicy in flavour. 



RECIPES 
Plum Katteschale 

Take a pound of sound plums and put them in a deep 
earthen jar and sprinkle a quarter of a pound of castor sugar 
over them, and half a pint of water. Tie two or three folds of 
paper over the jar and set it on a pan three-parts full of boiling 
water, which must be kept boiling till the plums are soft ; 
then lift out the jar and put it aside till the next day. 
Squeeze the fruit through a tamis, crack the stones and boil 



44 GARDENING 

the kernels with the thick part which will not go through the 
tamis ; add half a stick of cinnamon and two cloves in half a 
pint of water for twenty minutes ; strain the liquid into the 
fruit ; add sugar and wine to taste — claret for red plums and 
sauterne for yellow ones. Serve in a compote dish with a 
slice of toast cut into dice and thrown when cold into the 
fruit. 

Plum Vol au Vent 

Boil in half a pint of water six ounces of loaf sugar. 
Stalk a pound of plums, wipe them and put them into the 
syrup ; let all boil at once, then draw the saucepan to the side 
and simmer very gently till the plums are tender without 
being broken. Then take out the plums and boil up the 
syrup till it is reduced and thickened ; strain it and pour when 
cold over the fruit, then they can be put into the pastry. 



QUINCE 

The quince thrives best near water, and is grown 
as a standard. It requires very little care except 
that of planting it in a moist, soft soil. The trees 
require pruning in the usual way annually. The 
best variety is the Portugal. 



RECIPE 
To preserve Quinces whole 

The quinces must be quite ripe, and placed in a preserving 
pan covered with three quarts of cold water ; then take out 
the quinces. To every pint of water allow three pounds of 
loaf sugar, and let all boil rapidly in the preserving pan for 
five minutes, and then put in the quinces again. The syrup 
must not cover them at first, but w^hen they are half cooked 
the fruit will be sufficiently covered. The quinces must be 



FRUITS 



45 



boiled rapidly until soft enough for a skewer to pierce them, 
which should be in ninety minutes' time. Take out the quinces 
carefully and lay them on dishes to cool. Run the syrup 
through a jelly bag and put it back in the preserving pan, 
and boil very quickly until it will jelly when dropped on a 
plate. Put the quinces in the boiling syrup and let them 
simmer for ten minutes. Place each quince carefully in a 
wide-necked jar, pour the hot syrup over them, and when 
cold cover in the usual way. 



RASPBERRIES 

Raspberry canes do best on strong land, 
moderately heavy and moist and in a sunny 
position ; with proper treatment they grow well and 
bear fair crops on light ground, but the fruit is 
always more or less scanty and in dry seasons there 
will be none. 

The canes, or stools, should be planted in rows 
four feet asunder and two-and-a-half feet apart in 
the rows. The ground should never be disturbed 
to any great extent, and weeds are in all cases best 
removed by the hand. In dry seasons they should 
be heavily mulched with manure before the soil 
parts, with all its moisture, and when the fruit is just 
beginning to swell off. 

The old canes should be cut away as soon as 
they have dene fruiting, and then the young ones 
thinned out (of the year's growth only), not more 
than five to each root. 

The young shoots should be tied up to wires 
stretched tightly along the rows and supported by 
means of stout stakes. Where new plantations are 
required the suckers are drawn from the roots of 
the old canes by the hand, with a ball of earth. 



46 GARDENING 

The time for planting is from October to the middle 
of February, and in November these young plants 
should be pruned. 

Raspberries love warmth and sunshine. When 
pruning the canes, they should not be cut off straight 
at the top, but prune them to various heights and 
so avoid a crowded cluster of fruit and foliage 
among which neither sun nor air can penetrate. 

Raspberries are not prone to disease or enemies, 
their chief foe being the birds, from which they 
should be protected when the fruit is ripening. 

The best varieties are Red Antwerp ; the Fastolf, 
large, red and excellent ; the Vice-President French, 
very rich flavour ; Belle de Fontenay ; Hornet ; Nor- 
wich Wonder, large and sweet ; Semper Fidelis, for 
preserving, the largest, and very prolific ; Super- 
lative Northumberland Fillbasket, very fine ; Sweet 
Yellow Antwerp ; Yellow Globe, for dessert ; 
Merveille des Quatre Saisons (jaune) ; White 
Antwerp, a late kind and excellent flavour. 



RECIPES 
Chartreuse of Raspberries 

Pick the stalks from two quarts of raspberries, and put 
the fruit into a basin with half a pint of cold water and 
three-quarters of a pound of castor sugar. Bruise all well 
together, and pour the whole into a jelly bag, and filter it 
through once or twice ; then add a tablespoonful of brandy 
and two ounces of isinglass which has been clarified ; a 
lump of sugar is then added, and a teaspoonful of lemon- 
juice. Remove the scum as it rises. Pour a little of 
the jelly into an open mould : when it has set, arrange 
some raspberries round the edge of the mould, and pour in 



FRUITS 47 

more jelly to make the fruit adhere. When that is set, add 
more fruit and jelly till the mould is full. When set, turn 
out on to a dish and fill the centre of the mould with whipped 
cream, flavoured with raspberry syrup. 

Raspberry Charlotte Russe 

Split twenty-four savoy cakes, and line a Charlotte mould 
with them. Whip one pint of cream, sweeten with two 
tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, and flavour with fresh rasp- 
berry juice. Fill the centre of the mould with cream, pile 
the cream high, and ornament the top with fresh raspberries ; 
when firm turn out of the mould. 

Raspberry Sponge 

Soak three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in a little 
cold water for an hour. Dissolve and strain it, and mix 
with it a gill of raspberry juice made from fresh fruit. Add 
half a pint of cream, the same of milk, the strained juice of 
a lemon, and sweeten to taste. Whisk this in one direction 
till it thickens and looks spongy, then pour it into a damp 
mould, and turn out when stiff. 



RHUBARB 

This plant flourishes best in a deeply-worked 
and rich soil of a loamy nature, which should not 
be either too stiff nor very light. The roots will 
remain in good condition and size for five or six 
years ; but, to prevent deterioration, they should be 
lifted, divided, and replanted in ground that has 
been trenched to a depth of two-and-a-half or three 
feet and rather heavily manured every fourth year 
in the autumn. A good distance in the rows is 
four feet, with three feet between the plants. When 



48 GARDENING 

dividing the clumps, it is best to separate them into 
single crowns. 

If seed is not required the flower-stems should 
be cut off as soon as they appear. Rhubarb roots 
are easily forced by placing pots or barrels over 
the roots in the ground and surrounding them with 
fermenting manure. 

Dancer's Early Victoria and Myatt's Victoria, 
and Sutton's Reading Ruby are the best kinds, the 
first and third for forcing and the second for main 
crop ; also Hawkes' Champagne Red is excessively 
good, as the flavour is rich and the juice very red. 



RECIPES 
Rhubarb Fritters 

Cut and peel some sticks of rhubarb into pieces one inch 
long. Make a batter with a quarter of a pound of flour, the 
raw yolk of an ^gg^ two large tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, 
a tablespoonful of oil, and the white of the ^^g whipped to a 
stiff froth. Lay the pieces of rhubarb in a dish and strew 
castor sugar over them, and moisten with a glass of brandy ; 
let them soak for an hour ; then dip them in the frying batter 
and fry in boiling lard till a nice colour. Serve very hot and 
powdered with white sugar. 

Rhubarb Meringue Tart 

Line a tart tin with a nice light paste, and mark the 
edge prettily, and bake a nice golden. Fill the centre with 
rhubarb cut into inch strips and cooked in a good syrup 
coloured with cochineal. Then make a meringue top with 
the whipped white of two eggs and two ounces of castor 
sugar, and place over the rhubarb and set in the oven for 
one minute only. 



FRUITS 49 



STRAWBERRIES 

The principal points in the culture of straw- 
berries are a deeply-trenched and well-manured 
soil, somewhat stiff loamy being the best, to make 
the soil perfectly firm, and to make use of runners 
from fruitful plants of well-known and proved 
varieties. 

Great care must be taken to prepare the beds. 
Deep trenching and liberal manure is the first 
thing, and when the soil is of a light description it 
ought to be trenched several weeks before planting 
it. 

The ground should be dug two-and-a-half feet 
to three feet, and the soil well broken up ; and a 
liberal dressing of manure, leaf-mould, ashes, etc., 
more or less according to the nature of the soil, 
should be mixed with the top and pit. 

The plants should be put out in rows from 
twenty to twenty-four inches apart, and eighteen 
inches from plant to plant ; and in planting spread 
the roots out evenly all round, keep the crowns 
high, and press the soil down very firmly with the 
foot around each. 

The soil of the beds should never be disturbed 
from the time of planting till they are broken up. 
All weeds should be hand-picked, or else cut off at 
the surface with a sharp hoe. 

The planting should always be done in October, 
from the runners which have been taken off in 
July, and planted by dibbling them into a rich soil, 
where they can be often watered, and where they 
can be shaded from the sun. These plants are 

E 



50 GARDENING 

then lifted with balls of roots and put in their 
permanent border in October. 

All that is necessary beyond this is to keep the 
beds free from weeds, and to shake in between the 
rows in the winter a dressing of short manure, which 
can be lightly forked in before the spring, all old 
runners and stems having been previously cleared 
off. 

During the time the fruit is swelling it will be 
beneficial, if the weather is warm and dry, to give 
two or three soakings of liquid manure, especially 
if the beds are two years or more old. And it is a 
good plan to vary the manure watering, giving at 
one application diluted stable or sheep droppings ; 
soot water the next, and then, perhaps, a little 
nitrate of soda. 

Plants on a sunny morning should be fertilised 
with the brush. 

It is necessary to lay some suitable material 
between the plants to prevent them being splashed 
by rain. Sometimes littery manure is used, but 
it is now generally found that spent tan is best : it 
is easily laid down and removed, and keeps the 
slugs away as well as other insect pests. After the 
tan is removed, if put by in a heap it makes a good 
fertiliser for any kind of crop. 

All runners should be removed till the fruit is 
gathered ; but in spite of removing them there will 
be, in July and August, a profusion of runners 
produced, the foliage of which will, as the 
' Gardener's Chronicle ' says, obstruct the light 
from the older and principal leaves which are pre- 
paring for the formation of the next year's blossoms. 
These waste runners should be cut away as soon as 
possible, as they exhaust the soil by their roots. 



FRUITS 51 

In cutting away these runners care must be taken 
to preserve all the true leaves without touching 
them. 

In layering strawberries for the next year it is 
a good plan to put them into boxes filled with two 
parts loam and one part decayed horse manure. 
Make the soil firm and fasten one runner on the 
top of it with a small peg thrust into the soil. 
When the box is nearly full of roots sever the 
plant from the parent and plant out in their per- 
manent quarters. 

All runners must be pinched off, as they show 
where fruit is the chief object. 

Though it is necessary, to produce good crops 
of fine strawberries, that they must be re-planted 
every third or fourth year in deep and well-manured 
ground, yet there are some varieties will continue 
to produce abundance of fruit for years undisturbed 
— for instance, the fine old-fashioned strawberry 
Keen's Seedling ; British Queen, very large and 
very fine flavour ; Empress of India, similar to 
British Queen ; Lord Sheffield, very firm and good 
flavour ; Gunton Park, very rich in flavour, hand- 
some and hardy, firm, and travels well ; Sir J. 
Paxton, very large and handsome and good colour ; 
President, very large and hardy, and useful for 
all purposes ; Waterloo, a late fruit and of good 
flavour ; Garibaldi, for preserving, very productive ; 
Elton Pine, an early strawberry, and good for pre- 
serving ; La Grosse Sucree, bears large fine-flavoured 
fruit, heavy cropper ; Dr. Hogg, very large but 
late, and does not succeed in all soils ; Monsieur 
Fournier, has immense fruit of a deep purplish 
maroon colour, with dark crimson flesh and very 
delicious flavour ; Lucie Boissellot, a very fine late 

E 2 



52 GARDENING 

variety, and should be grown ; Noble, very fine, 
early, and prolific ; Sir Charles Napier, is superb 
and travels well. 

Varieties of the Strawberry. — In selecting 
strawberries two things must be considered — the 
kind of soil and situation, and also the purpose for 
which the fruit is required. A good plan is to 
plant a trial row or two of each of a dozen or two 
of sorts, and, after a couple of years' experience, 
plant those which have succeeded best. Of course, 
this is a loss of time and waste and spoil of labour, 
which many will object to. Sir J. Paxton, President, 
Garibaldi, Sir C. Napier, for productiveness ; British 
Queen ; Keen's Seedling, Dr. Hogg, Black Prince, 
Countess, and President, for flavour ; Sir J. Paxton, 
President, Sir C. Napier, Noble, Countess, J. Veitch, 
for appearance, colour, form, and size combined ; 
Marguerite, J. Veitch, Noble, British Queen, Helen 
Gloede, Waterloo, for size ; Garibaldi (Vicomtesse 
Hericart de Thury), President, Keen's Seedling, 
Sir J. Paxton, Black Prince, for forcing ; Garibaldi, 
Elton Pine, Old Scarlet Pine, Newton Seedling, for 
preserving ; Elton Pine, James Veitch, J. Powell, 
President, Keen's Seedling, Filbert Pine, Eleanor, 
La Grosse Sucree, for light soils ; British Queen, 
Dr. Hogg, Sir J. Paxton, and most of the others 
under the last head for heavy soils ; Black Prince, 
King of the Earlies, Noble, Pauline, Garibaldi, La 
Grosse Sucree, Keen's Seedling, best early varieties ; 
Elton Pine, Frogmore Late Pine, Eleanor, Unser 
Fritz, and Waterloo, late varieties. 

Strawberries in pots should be fertilised on all 
sunny mornings, using a nice soft camel-hair pencil, 
neither too large nor too small. The plants should 



FRUITS 



53 



be kept from green fly, fumigating at once if there 
are any signs of these pests. 

The best month in the year for planting new 
strawberry beds is April. 

The great thing is to trench deeply and manure 
liberally, taking care to provide free drainage, and 
make the soil firm. The plants should have as 
much room as possible, and the runners from fruitful 
plants only should be used. A change of stock 
often does much good. 

Strawberries should be gathered with short 
stems attached, and those intended for dessert 
should be gathered in the early morning, or late in 
the day when it is cool, as the fruit is then so much 
fresher and, after picking, keeps longer. 

In layering the runners those nearest the plant 
should be marked, to save as the best. When these 
runners have taken root, they may either remain 
where they are till autumn, or they may at once be 
taken up and planted in rows in the nursery five or 
six inches apart ; or if they are taken up and planted 
out they will make fine, large, well -rooted plants 
for fruit-bearing the next season. 



RECIPES 
Strawberry Custard Souffle 

Place a large cupful of milk in a double boiler over the 
fire ; when hot add two tablespoonfuls of flour and four of 
butter, well rubbed together ; stir until well mixed — perhaps 
five or six minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs with a small 
half-cupful of sugar ; add these to the hot milk ; stir one 
minute, and remove from the fire to cool. When cold add 



54 GARDENING 

the well-beaten whites, and place in a quick oven for twenty 
minutes. Turn out when cold over a quart of fresh straw- 
berries. 

Strawberry Dumplings 

Put one pint of flour into a bowl, and rub into it two 
ounces of butter ; add a teaspoonful of baking powder, mix 
well, and add a gill of cold milk to make a soft dough ; 
knead lightly, and roll out into a thin sheet ; cut with a 
round cutter into good-sized pieces. Put three strawberries 
into the centre of each, pinch up the dough, and make into 
a dumpling. Place on a plate and put it into a steamer, 
and steam for fifteen minutes. 



WALNUT TREES 

Walnut trees thrive in deep loamy soil, and 
there is nothing to do to them except pruning very 
occasionally. Some gardeners never touch the 
trees from one year to another ; but if the shoots 
become too luxuriant, then pruning is necessary, to 
make them send out those short spurs which pro- 
duce the nut. 

The best kinds to grow are the Dwarf Prolific, 
Noyer Fertile, and Noyer a Bigore. 

RECIPE 
Walnut Liqueur 

Take a hundred young walnuts with soft shells pricked, 
two quarts of pale brandy, fifteen grains of cinnamon, fifteen 
grains of cloves, one wineglassful of ratafia, and let all 
marinade for ten weeks ; then pound and filter, and add one- 
and-a-half pound of white sugar candy. 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 55 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 



Planting Trees and Shrubs 

The soil for trees and shrubs of ahnost all kinds 
(except rose) need not be very rich, and manure 
should never be placed in immediate contact with 
the roots. The ground should be well drained and 
deeply stirred. Beyond this, little is required except 
that it should be made quite Jinn, and the trees or 
shrubs planted hig/iy spreading the roots out well, 
not allowing them to be pressed or twisted into a 
hole that is too small for them. 

A dull, mild, and moist day is best for planting, 
sunshine and wind being objectionable. 

Each shrub or tree should have plenty of room 
to develop itself properly. 

In fruit trees it is most necessary that their 
roots should lie close to the surface, so that they 
are acted on by air and sunshine. Of course they 
must not be fully exposed nor subjected to rapid 
evaporation, as it is the roots that lie nearest 
the surface that perform the principal part of fruit 
producing. 

In order to effect this, frequent surface dressings 
of manure should be given, especially after the trees 
have begun bearing. Where young trees have 



56 GARDENING 

struck too deep, they may be lifted and replanted 
higher. 

An experienced writer and fruit grower says, in 
respect to planting fruit trees high : ' If all the 
feeding fibres of a fruit tree of any kind be within 
a foot of the surface, the growth it makes will be 
short, pointed, firm and studded with fruit buds or 
spurs, which, under favourable circumstances, will 
result in due time in an abundant crop. It is 
when any of the roots strike downwards, beyond 
the health-giving influences of air and warmth, 
that the energies of the tree become wasted in 
the rank, soft, useless shoots that seldom produce 
anything ; a tree seldom has too many surface 
roots, but it is a common occurrence for them to 
have too many deep-lying feeders, and when this 
occurs they must be either cut away altogether or 
lifted nearer the surface.' 

Fruit Trees 

It is a well-known fact that the production of a 
large quantity of bloom exercises a very weakening 
effect upon plants of all kinds ; therefore, whenever 
practicable, it is a good plan to pinch out a quantity 
of the trusses of bloom before they even begin to 
expand, and, in fact, as soon as they can be perceived 
and fairly got hold of. Thin them out until but 
few more are left than would afford a full crop, 
supposing that one fruit only on each truss comes 
to anything ; if more than this set kindly, the 
number can again be reduced later on. 

Of course this is for pyramids, bushes, espaliers, 
cordons, &c., for it would be impossible to operate 
on large standard trees. 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 57 

Planting Fruit Trees. — Directly the leaves fall 
is the best time for planting all fruit trees. If the 
soil is heavy and retentive of moisture, it should be 
trenched tv/o feet deep, keeping the surface soil in 
the same position it was before ; by this means 
surplus water from heavy rains passes away more 
quickly and the wood ripens better. Manure 
should not be added to the soil except it is very 
poor, then a small quantity of decayed horse 
manure would be beneficial. 

Starving Fruit Trees. — It is a grand mistake to 
plant vegetables right up to the stems of the fruit 
trees ; cabbages in particular are so gross feeding 
that they will soon starve the fruit trees into a 
weakly state. 

Mixed flower borders have the effect of starving 

o 

fruit trees. They will grow well together for a few 
years, but it is only a question of time for the 
plants to get the mastery over the fruit. If inter- 
mediate cropping is done at all, it should be at such 
a distance from each other that the roots of the 
flowers or vegetables cannot rot the fruit trees. 

When to spray Fruit Trees. — The secretary of 
the Fruit Pest Committee recommends that syring- 
ing with Paris green should be done when the leaf 
bud is first developed, before the blossoming period, 
and then again after the blossom has disappeared 
and the fruit has formed. The ' Entomologist,' of 
the Dominion of Canada, says : ' It decidedly pays 
to spray fruit trees, as a protection against the 
various enemies that attack them. This should be 
done as soon as the petals have dropped, which in 
most varieties, would be before there is a large 
surface of foliage.' 

Canker in Fruit Trees. — This proceeds from 



58 GARDENING 

the rupture of the sap vessels, caused by a sudden 
change of temperature. A correspondent in 
* Gardening ' believes that when the sap is rising 
freely and receives a long check, some of the sap 
vessels become clogged, and when the sap again 
rises rupture of the vessels takes place. A bruise 
or frost would have the same effect. Apple trees 
are more liable to canker than others. Weakly 
trees are disposed to this disease. 

The great thing is to see the land is well 
drained, and that the trees get as much sun as 
possible ; keeping the bark clean, destroying insect 
pests and giving any plant-food the trees may 
require. 

To remove Lichen and Moss from Fruit 
Trees. — Limewash made with fresh lime and 
applied with a brush will soon rid trees of these 
parasites. 

PRUNING 

The less plums, damsons, cherries, and green- 
gages are pruned with the knife the better, as it is 
a well-known fact that the removal of large or 
moderate-sized branches causes gumming, which 
leads to canker and death. 

The proper time to prune is during the summer 
months whilst young shoots are growing ; when any 
not required can be taken away without any harm, 
and the shoots deemed advisable to remain can be 
stopped at the right point. 

If a tree makes too much growth and does not 
produce fruit, it should be lifted and replanted bodily, 
if a young one, in the same place, but a few inches 
higher than before ; or where too old to move thus, 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 59 

either uncover the roots and cut two or three of 
those that He deepest and are of the coarsest de- 
scription right off a short distance from the base of 
the trunk, or merely Hft the roots, branch by branch, 
from their places and relay them in fresh loamy 
soil a few inches nearer the surface. 

Gooseberries and currants require very careful 
pruning. Gooseberries and black currants produce 
the most fruit on the strong young wood of the 
previous season ; and when these shoots are vigorous 
and well ripened, they bear along almost their en- 
tire length, while the red and white currants fruit 
chiefly on spurs on the old wood. 

The proper method of pruning the two former 
is to leave the strongest and best matured shoots 
of the previous season untouched, or, at most, short- 
ened back to sound wood, cutting out only the 
weaker growths altogether. 

Red and white currants ought, on the contrary, 
to be confined to a certain moderate number of 
leading branches, and the laterals be cut back an- 
nually, to within two or three buds or eyes of their 
bases. 



PEAR TREES, TO KEEP BIRDS OFF 

Syringe the trees with a mixture of soot, lime, 
and soft soap. Mix up a tubful of soap and water, 
and then place in as much fresh lime and soot as 
will pass through a coarse syringe, and well dress 
the trees with it. But the best plan of all is to 
place netting on the trees, which is best done 
every year soon after Christmas, as the birds begin 
to peck out the buds very soon after this. Half- 



6o GARDENING 

inch netting is best, as that prevents the tomtits 
from finding their way through. 

A few meat bones with a Httle fat adhering, 
placed at a safe distance from the tree, will entice 
tomtits, which are the greatest depredators. 

ACARUS GENICULATUS 

Is a glossy chocolate-coloured mite which infests 
the bark of fruit trees. A slight sponge of turpen- 
tine will do away with them. 

AMERICAN BLIGHT 

This is an insect which attacks apple trees. 
When trees are affected with it the roots should be 
bared and left exposed to the cold for a few days, 
and the earth, before being returned, saturated with 
ammoniacal liquor from the gasworks. In the 
early part of March the branches should be scraped, 
and scrubbed with the same ammoniacal liquid, or 
a strong brine of common salt. 

The presence of these insects is ascertained by 
the white cottony matter found in the cracks and 
excrescences of apple-tree branches in the spring. 

ANTS, TO DESTROY 

Place some saucers near their runs, and cover 
the bottoms of them with sweet oil and put them 
near their nests. The ants will get in the oil and 
not be able to get out again. 

Sponges dipped in treacle put about their 
haunts make very good ant-traps. 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 6i 



APHIDES. APHIS 

These insects are most destructive, and there is 
no plant they let alone. There are several species 
of them : 

Aphis Pyraniali is an enemy to apples and 
pears, and is of a grass-green colour. 

Aphis persiccB is dark green and devours peaches 
and nectarines. 

ApJiis pruni infests plum trees, and is of a very 
pale green. 

ApJiis cerasi, a black pest which infests cherries, 
especially the Morello cherry, and attacks the 
undersides of leaves. 

Aphis coryli, a destroyer of nuts. 

Aphis ribis and Aphis ribis nigrce^ which devote 
themselves to red and black currants. 

Aphis fab cs, known as Black Dolphin, attacks 
beans. 

Aphis pisi is green and affects peas. 

Aphis raphani, radish louse, females green, males 
light red. 

Aphis lathyri, sweet pea louse, dark purple. 

Aphis dahlice, dahlia louse, amber colour. 

To prevent their appearance, about February, 
every other year, paint every branch, with a common 
paintbrush, with a mixture made of Scotch snuff, 
one pound of quicklime, half a pound of lampblack, 
one pound of soft soap, and sufficient water to 
make to the consistency of paint. 

When the tops of beans are attacked by the 
Black Dolphin they should be removed at once and 
should be syringed with tobacco water or washed 
two or three times with soapsuds. 



62 GARDENING 

When peas are affected, Scotch snuff should be 
dusted over whilst the dew is still on them. 

Cherry trees attacked by the Black Aphis, 
which is a glutinous insect, should have the wood 
of the tree as well as the wall they are growing on 
washed yearly in the rest season with soft soap and 
water, six ounces to a gallon, adding plenty of soot, 
lime, and sulphur. When the young shoots are 
attacked in the summer each shoot should be 
dipped in a basin of tobacco water just before 
they are trained 

Ladybirds should be encouraged, as they are 
great enemies to caterpillars. Aphis, and especially 
to American blight 

There is a machine called Curtis's Lime Duster, 
by which repeated applications of quicklime can be 
syringed over apples, pears, and plums, and the 
pests destroyed. 



CATERPILLARS, TO DESTROY 

Hang pieces of woollen rag on every tree and 
bush ; the caterpillars will congregate on them and 
are easily caught. 

Caterpillars on Bush Fruits.— The best plan is 
to remove the soil in the autumn from under the 
bushes to a depth of three inches and replace with 
fresh soil. The gooseberry saw-fly grub buries itself 
in the ground and becomes a chrysalis, from which 
in the spring sawflies emerge and fly into the bushes 
and lay their eggs. The earth containing the 
chrysalides should be burnt, as nothing else will 
eradicate them. 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 



COCCUS 

These are dreadful pests ; they adhere to leaves 
and stems and will kill what they attack. There is 
no remedy but handpicking, washing and scrubbing. 



FLIES ON FRUIT TREES 

Syringe the wall with a strong solution of 
Sunlight soap, three ounces to the gallon, adding a 
wineglassful of paraffin oil. 



GOOSEBERRY CATERPILLAR 

A shilling bottle of fir-tree oil, mixed with water 
according to the directions on the bottle, and well 
syringed, will completely destroy them. 

And in the autumn remove a little of the soil 
beneath the bushes, to take away the cocoons of the 
insects which are to be found about two inches 
below the surface ; and in the spring, lime should be 
sprinkled on the ground. 

The caterpillars are small, dark, oval bodies about 
half an inch long. The parent of these caterpillars is 
the saw-fly. 

EARWIGS 

are night destroyers, for, in the day time, they hide 
away. The best way to trap them is to reverse small 
pots, and fill them with a screw of paper, on the tops 



64 GARDENING 

of sticks. Dip a piece of wool in oil and tie round 
the stalk a foot from the earth and round the stake : 
this will quite prevent them climbing up. 



GARDEN SWIFT 

This is a terrible ravager and loves strawberries 
especially, though all flowers and vegetables are 
assailed by it. These moths appear about the end 
of May, and are very abundant in the evening. 
They deposit their eggs without discrimination, 
which soon hatch, says the ' Gardener's Chronicle.' 
The caterpillars produced are round and yellowish 
white, with black dots and hairs on the upper parts 
and sides of their segments Whole beds of straw- 
berries have been destroyed by these insects. 



GREEN FLY 

Syringe with soft-soap and water in which a 
little paraffin has been mixed ; one-and-a-half ounce 
of soap, one gallon of water, and a wineglassful of 
paraffin. Stir well and use warm. 



LIME-LOOPER 

This is a moth which feeds on the leaves of the 
apple. It appears in November. The caterpillar is 
reddish, with a bright yellow stripe on each side. 
The female moth has no wings, so that a piece of 
cloth dipped in tar and bound round a tree stem 
prevents its ascent. 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 65 



MEALY-BUG ON VINES 

Lemon oil insecticide will kill mealy-bug. It 
should be mixed with rain-water and put on to the 
vines with a brush, taking pains to work it well 
into all the cracks and crevices of the vine-rods. 
Another very good remedy is to dip a small camel's 
hair brush in methylated spirits, and touch the 
insects with it. 



MOTHS ON FRUIT TREES 

In the beginning of October the winter moth 
and the mottled umber moth will come from the 
chrysalis state in the ground under and near the 
fruit trees that were infested in the spring, and the 
female moths will crawl up the trees for the purpose 
of laying their eggs upon the twigs and branches, 
therefore some sticky composition should be put 
round the stems to entrap the moths, or some 
stout varnished cardboard to bar their progress, as 
they are quite unable to fly, having only rudimentary 
wings. These measures must be adopted early in 
October, and the composition must be kept in 
working order as long as moths are seen about. 
Cart-grease made from fats or oils zvitJiout any tar 
is recommended as the best and safest substance, 
which may be applied directly to the stems or put 
upon bands of tough grease-proof paper fastened 
round the trees with string or bass. If the surface 
is raked round the trees the chrysalides would 

■F 



66 GARDENING 

be exposed, many of which could be smashed if the 
ground, after raking, were beaten down with spades. 
Upon grass land the grass should be cut off and 
removed. — ' Farm and Home.' 

Magpie moth attacks the leaves of gooseberries, 
currants, aloe, and even the peach in early summer. 



RED SPIDER 

Red spider is one of the gardeners' greatest pests. 
It is so small it is almost invisible to the naked eye. 
When a plant is much infested by them it has the 
appearance of being scorched. 

The best remedies are fumigating with the 
vapour from sulphur, and then syringing the plants 
continually with water afterwards. 

It is a good plan to beat up soft soap in warm 
water, three ounces to the gallon, and add as much 
finely dissolved clay as will make it into a thick 
paint. To this add three or four handfuls of 
sulphur, and keep the mixture well stirred. Whilst 
applying it to walls and also on the stems of fruit 
trees, soot mixed with it takes away the objection- 
able yellow colour. 

SCIARA, OR PEAR MIDGE 

When a pear falls often, if it is cut open it will 
be found core-eaten and with a brown powder ; 
which is caused by the larva of these insects. They 
appear early in July. They survive the winter and 
deposit their eggs in the blossom when it opens in 
early spring. The larva eats its way into the core 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 67 

of the young fruit, and again eats its way out at 
one side when the time arrives for it to bury itself 
in the ground and pass into the chrysalis form. 
— Kollar. 

SLUGS 

Are woful destroyers of fruit. The best plan 
to rid the plants of them is to water the earth with 
lime water and strew lime over the ground, and at 
the end of a week give a surface dressing of salt 
Consult ' Johnson's Dictionary of Gardening ' for 
quantities. 

SNAILS IN A GARDEN 

The only way of dealing with them is to catch 
them, and they must be looked for early in the 
morning or evening. If they have any favourite 
wall they infest, a preparation of train oil and soot 
daubed along the bottom is a very good barrier. 



THE SAW-FLY 

This is a glossy grub with a shining matter 
covering the body, and chiefly attacks pear trees. 



THRIPS 

Thrips are fearful scourges to ripe plums and 
peaches, &c., and cause them to fall. They are of a 
bufifish colour and hairy. Scotch snuff sprinkled 
over with a sprinkler is a good remedy. 



68 GARDENING 



WASPS, TO DESTROY 

The best way to destroy wasps' nests is by 
dropping a tablespoonful of liquid cyanide of 
potassium just at the entrance to a nest. This will kill 
or stupefy every wasp entering or leaving the nest, 
and when all becomes quiet the comb should be dug 
out and destroyed, as well as the insects themselves. 



WIREWORMS 

Are terrible pests ; to get them out of the soil 
the only plan is to dig it constantly and pick them 
out. 

To entrap them it is a good plan to bury 
potatoes in the soil, and put a stick into each potato, 
which answers as a handle by which it may be 
taken up, so as to destroy the wireworms. They 
are particularly fond of pansies, and it is good to 
grow round the beds an edging of daisies, th^ roots 
of which they devour with avidity. 

WOODLICE 

Woodlice are most injurious to many plants, 
fruits, &c., by gnawing off the outer skin. Gas-lime 
will expel them from their haunts, and two tiles, 
kept one-eighth of an inch apart, make a capital 
trap. 

Woodlice on Peach Trees. — Hollow bean- 
stalks five inches long placed amongst the branches 
make capital traps, and should be examined once a 
day and the insects destroyed. These traps should 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 69 

be set when the fruit begins to ripen. And clear the 
ground of all dry mulching material. 

Woodlice love dry quarters and object to being 
frequently disturbed. 



CURRANT PROTECTORS 

Procure four stakes an inch in diameter and 
four feet long, and two strong wooden hoops three 
feet in diameter. Nail the stakes, at equal distance, 
to the hoops, allowing one hoop to be six inches 
within the bottom of the stakes, and the other even 
with their tops. Next, fasten eight smaller stakes 
between the four stakes and even with the top and 
bottom hoop, place the machine topsy-turvy, and 
drive in slightly som.e tin tacks, four inches apart, all 
round the edge of the hoop. Return the machine to 
its first position, and drive some tacks round the upper 
edge of the hoop. Lay it now on its side and drive 
some tacks four inches apart the whole distance 
between the hoops on one of the four stoutest 
stakes, and then fasten a net round and over the 
top. Sharpen the four-inch legs, and it is complete. 
These netted protectors will keep off frost in the 
sorine as well as birds. — ' Garden Work.' 



FRUIT, TO PACK 

To Pack. — Fruit should be most carefully 
packed, and in packing care must be taken that 
every package is fully filled. If the basket is 
too large for the quantity, put an extra layer of 



70 GARDENING 

moss, soft hay, paper shavings at the bottom, and 
when the packing is finished the Hd should rest 
firmly and gently on the top. Grapes, peaches, 
pears, and plums should be each wrapped in soft 
tissue paper. 

Strawberries should be packed in shallow boxes 
holding two layers of fruit. Cover the bottom with 
strawberry leaves and put each fruit in a strawberry 
leaf, and place plenty of strawberry leaves between 
the layers and on the top. Fruit that has to be 
sent a long distance should be gathered and sent 
before it is ripe. 

To Protect. — The best protection is a material 
called Frigi domo. It is a mixture of wool and 
hair, a non-conductor of heat, thin and light. It is 
very wide — at least it is, I consider, best to buy the 
three or four yards wide, though it is to be had 
yard-wide only. 

The best way to hang it is to place it so that it 
only touches the wall or fence at the top, and is 
borne out from it at an angle at the bottom ; and it 
should be so arranged that it cannot blow back- 
wards or forwards against the blossom. Or curtains 
may be made by hanging them on nails at the top 
of the wall, and then a few long pegs placed at the 
bottom on which the material can be tacked. 



Fruit Rooms 

Wherever it is possible there should be a fruit 
room in a garden, as it so often happens fruit has 
to be picked before it is ripe for fear of its spoiling 
in its fall. This room should be airy and dry, and 
the temperature never above 60° nor below 40°. 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 71 

It is necessary there should be a good window 
in it, which should open top and bottom; air 
must be let in and the damp let out. Fruit keeps 
best in the dark ; and in severe weather the window 
should be matted up to keep out the frost. A 
table made of laths is the best to lay the fruit on, 
and the latter should be picked over pretty often 
and all bad or specked fruit taken away. 

Choice pears should be wrapped each one in 
paper, and arranged one layer deep in shallow 
boxes. 

Moss on Gooseberry Bushes 

Scrape the moss off, wet the bushes and dust 
them well wdth dry powdered lime, also dig a dress- 
ing of lime on the ground round them. Many 
gardeners advise painting the bushes all over with 
a mixture of quicklime, soot and clay, made to the 
consistency of paint, with the addition of a little 
melted rough fat from the kitchen, which will make 
the paste stick to the branches. 



GRAFTING WAX 

Melt half an ounce of wax and the same quantity 
of fat in a pipkin over a fire, then break up half an 
ounce of red sealing-wax in pieces and put into it, 
and keep stirring the whole until all are thoroughly 
melted and incorporated together. Finally, stir in a 
very small quantity of honey and pour the mixture 
into moulds, and stir gently till it begins to set. 



72 GARDENING 



MELONS SPLITTING 

This is caused by a damp atmosphere ; and 
when there are indications of this, the house should 
be ventilated at night and not so much water given. 
Some varieties of melons are more liable to be 
injured by the fruit splitting than others, especially 
the Scarlet Gem. The splitting generally occurs 
just at the time the fruit is changing colour, and it 
is often caused by watering too much when the 
fruit begins to ripen, which affects the skin by con- 
tracting it when water is applied, if the fruit has 
been kept rather dry. 



PYRAMID FRUIT TREES 

These are called Quenouilles ; with a central 
stem, and the branches trained in horizontal tiers, 
the lowest being the longest, and the others 
gradually lessening in length as they do in age, so 
that the tree acquires a pyramidal form. 



SCREENS 

For wall trees glass is the best of all screens, 
and may be employed as glazed frames, of a length 
extending from the coping of the wall to the sur- 
face of the soil, about two feet from the stems of 
the trees. 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 73 



SHANKING 

This is a species of gangrene which attacks the 
footstalks of grapes, and the stems of cabbages 
which have vegetated through the winter. In the 
grape it arises if the vine is deficient of sap, either 
in the leaves, flower, or fruit ; it rarely appears in 
the grape if the roots of the vine are within the 
house. 

In the cabbage it arises from the freezing of the 
stalk just where it comes in contact with the soil. 
The best preventive is to dress the soil with salt 
and charred vegetable matter in the spring and 
autumn. 



STANDARDS 

These are trees unsupported by wall or trellis. 

Full standards are trained with tall straight 
stems six or seven feet high, clear of branches, 
and are then allowed to branch out. 

Half standards are trees trained with short stems 
only two or three feet high, then suffered to branch 
out at that height to form heads ; having low heads, 
the fruit is more easily gathered. Concave dwarfs 
have the middle hollow, and the branches all round 
in a cup form. Horizontal dwarfs have the branches 
extended all round in a flat or horizontal position, 
but the concave dwarf is to be preferred. 



74 GARDENING 



TOBACCO PAPER 

Saturate paper with a decoction of tobacco, and 
burn it. 

TOBACCO WATER 

Is usually made from tobacconists' liquor, made 
of ammonia and the acrid oil of the plant. To 
every gallon of this, five gallons of water should be 
added. 

This mixture is best put on with Read's Garden 
Syringe, and may be sprinkled over the trees, care- 
fully wetting all the leaves. It should only be 
done in the hottest sunshine, as the effect is 
then much greater than it is in dull weather. 



TRENCHING 

Johnson, in his Dictionary, advises : ' Begin by 
taking out a trench two spades deep and twenty 
inches wide, and carry the earth to the opposite 
end to fill up and finish the last ridge. 

' Measure off the width of another trench ; then 
stretch the line and mark it out with the spade ; 
then proceed in this way till the whole of the ridges 
are outlined, after which begin at one end and fill 
up the bottom of the first trench with the surface 
or top spit of the second one ; then take the bottom 
spit of the latter and throw it in such a way over 
the other as to form an elevated sharp-pointed 
ridge.' 



MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 75 



WASP AND BEE STINGS 

Apply a poultice of saleratus water and flour, or 
rub the place where stung with a little strong 
ammonia, which is a very effective cure. 



WEED KILLERS 

Handweed, and then on a dry day in spring time 
dress the walks with salt. One of the most efficacious 
and simplest ways is by pouring boiling (scalding) 
water over the paths, which kills any insects that may 
be about. 



WOOD LABELS, TO WRITE ON 

Wipe them over with a rag moistened with 
thick white paint, rubbing it in well, and leaving 
very little on. Write on them while still wet, 
and the writing will last as long as the wood. 



INDEX 



AcARUS Geniculatus, 60 
American blight, 60 
Ants, to destroy, 60 
Aphides, 61 
Aphis, 61 

— black, 62 
Apples, I 

— trees, care of, 2 

— varieties, 2 

— recipes for cooking, 4 
Apricots, 5 

— recipes for cooking, 7 



Cranberry, 10 

— recipes for cooking, 1 1 
Currants, 12 

— black, 12 

— red, 12 

— white, 12 

— recipes, 14 

— protectors, 69 
Damsons, 14 

— recipes for cooking, 1 5 



Earwigs, 63 



Barberries, 7 

— recipes for cooking, 8 
Birds, to keep away, 59 
Black currants, 12 
Blight, American, 60 
Bullace, 8 

— recipes for cooking, 9 
Bee stings, 75 



Canker 57 

Caterpillars, to destroy, 62 

— on bush fruits, 62 

currant bushes, 13 

gooseberry bushes, ] 

63 

Cherries, 10 

— louse, 62 

— recipes for cooking, 1 1 
Coccus, 63 



Figs, 16 

— recipes for cooking, 17 
Filberts, 17 

— recipes for cooking, 18 
Flies, to destroy, 63 
Fruit trees, 16 

to pack, 59 

to plant, 57 

to spray, 57 

starving, 57 

— rooms, 70 



Garden swift, 64 
Gooseberries, 18 

— caterpillars, 20, 63 

— recipes for cooking, 20 
Grafting wax, 71 
Grapes, 21 



78 



GARDENING 



Grapes, mildew in, 22 

— mealy bug on vines, 22 

recipes for cooking, 23 

Green fly, 66 
Greengages, 23 

— recipe for cooking, 24 



Pruning, 58 

Pyramid fruit trees, 72 



Quince, 44 

— recipe for cooking, 44 



Lichen, to remove, 58 
Lime duster, 62 

— looper, 64 

Louse, black currant, 62 

— red currant, 62 
— - radish, 62 



Mealy bug, 22 
Medlars, 24 

— recipes for cooking, 25 
Melons, 25 

— canker, 27 

— splitting, 72 

— recipes for cooking, 28 
Mildew on vines, 22 
Moss, to remove, 58 
Moths on fruit trees, 65 
Mulberry, 29 

— recipes for cooking, 30 



Nectarines, 30 



Peaches, 31 

— recipes for cooking, 35 
Peach trees in house, 33 

gumming, 34 

on walls, 34 

Pears, 36 

— - midge, 66 

— recipes for cooking, 37 
Pineapples, 40 

— recipes for cooking, 41 
Plums, 42 

— recipes for cooking, 42 



Raspberries, 45 

— recipes for cooking, 46 
Red spider, 66 
Rhubarb, 47 

— recipes for cooking, 48 

Sav;^ fly, 67 
Sciara, 66 
Screens, 72 
Shanking, 73 
Shrubs, to plant, 55 
Snails in gardens, 67 
Slugs, 6^ ^ 
Strawberries, 52 

— varieties, 52 

— recipes for cooking, 53 
Standards, 73 

Thrips, 67 
Trees, to plant, 55 
Tobacco paper, 74 

— water, 74 
Trenching, 74 



Vines, mealy bug on, 22 



Walnut tree, 54 

— recipes for cooking, 54 
Wasps, to destroy, 68 

— stings, 75 
Weed killer, 75 
Wireworms, 68 
Woodlice, 68 
Wood labels, 75 



Spottiswoode £s= Co. Printers, Netv-street Sqjiare, London. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 684 5 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



'W. PfP 7^ 

B SEP 21 
If SEP 9 



