■- v ; "'\ 






'toss 






«3 



fSr 



4 , fff IJf^V' 






> : -;y*' : ' 



\: < 



t 







UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 

Dar. 




Darlington JMemorial .Library 




MRS. HENRY LUMPKIN WILSON, 

Chairman Committee on Agriculture and Horticulture. 



Tested Recipe 

cook BOOK 



COMPILED BY 



MRS. HENRY LUMPKIN WILSON, 

Chairman Committee on Agriculture and Horticulture, Board of 
Women Managers Cotton States and 
International Exposition. 

ATLANTA, GA, 



" The body craveth meats and the spirit is athirst for peacef ill- 
ness. He that hath these hath enough." — Tupper. 



ATLANTA ! 

THE FOOTE & DAVIES COMPANY. 

1895. 



Copyright, 1895, 
By Mrs. Henry Lumpkin Wilso.v. 



PREFACE. 



No recipe is of value until it has been tested. Conversely, 
every recipe wisely endorsed is of much value. In offering 
to the public, therefore, these various concoctions, endorsed 
by names well-known throughout Georgia and the South, 
Mrs. Henry L. Wilson, the compiler of this little volume, and 
herself a recognized authority on household matters, has 
wrought a good work. 

Moreover, this enterprise, undertaken by the Chairman 
of the Committee on Agriculture and Horticulture, in behalf 
of that department, is happily appropriate. For it is the 
field and the garden which feed the larder and the table; and 
Ceres and Pomona, for all their classic names and lineage, 
are but the constant ministers to that homely Saxon sylla- 
ble which we know as cook. 

Believing, therefore, that this book will go forth to win 
a wide success, is only believing that the eternal fitness of 
things will be accomplished. For it is but meet that these 
golden recipes, coined by skilled housewives from the distant 
mint of farm and field, should be the emissaries to go out 
and gather in a return treasury of gold for their original 
benefactors— Agriculture and Horticulture. 




RECIPE FOR MAKING A HOME HAPPY. 

One ounce each system, frugality and industry, one ounce each gentleness, 
patience and forbearance, six ounces PauVs Christian charity, that covers a 
multitude of failures. These ingredients thoroughly kneaded with the salt •/ 
good common sense, flavored with the "graces of nature and art," music and 
flowers, will make a paradise of a desert, a palace of a hovel. — Mrs. S. C. 
Ferrell, LaGrange, Ga. (FerrelVs Gardens.) 



RECIPE FOR^CHEERFULNESS. 

( The best flavor known to mortals.) Take two parts of unselfishness,add as 
much fresh air as can easily be obtained, stir in two hours of "beauty sleep," 
a silver tongue (from the tip of which all spite has been removed), and an eye 
that looks out on the brighter side of life. Into this mixture throw a pinch of 
humor and a sprinkle of the essence of romance. The result is cheerfulness 
warranted to stand the test of time. Where is the mental and moral kitchen 
which furnishes to life's table this wholesome food f — Miss Mary L. Jackson, 
Atlanta. 



RECIPES. 

SOUPS. 

BEEP is the best meat to be used, and only cold water 
should be used at first; then if more water be used let 
it be hot. One of the best articles for young or old 
housekeepers to keep on hand is a can of good extract 
of beef. With a little hot water, a bowl of very rich soup can 
be made at a moment's notice. It requires but a spoonful of 
the extract for a bowl of soup; can be made in five minutes. 
In point of time, strength and money, it cannot be excelled. 
Give variety by change of flavoring, as celery, wine, catsup, 
and onions, etc. 

Bouillon.— Ten pounds of round steak, cut up in small 
pieces, take off all the fat; put the meat in a vessel and 
cover with water; let it boil ten hours, keeping meat covered 
with water ; add one lemon, cut up, and two tablespoons bay 
leaves ; pepper and salt to taste; strain through a thick 
cloth, put on the stove again. When it begins to boil add 
the whites of two eggs well beaten. Strain and serve. This 
amount will be sufficient for twelve persons.— Mrs. W. D. 
Grant, Atlanta. 

Celery Soup.— One pint of milk, one tablespoon of flour, 
one head of celery, one small onion and a half teaspoon of 
mace. Boil celery in a pint of water thirty minutes. Boil 
onions, milk and mace together. Mix flour with two table- 
spoons of milk. Cook all together ten minutes. Add the 
butter, and season with salt and pepper. Stirring, add a 
cupful of whipped cream. Serve immediately. — Mrs. Burton 
Smith, Atlanta. 



6 Soups. 

Creole Gumbo— One chicken, cut up, one quart okra, six 
large onions, twelve large tomatoes. Have okra and onions 
sliced fine. Fry the chicken first, and then in the same skillet 
fry the okra and onions. Put all in a soup pot and add two 
quarts of boiling water, and the tomatoes, the two slices of 
boiled ham cut up fine, red and black pepper. Serve with 
rice, boiled dry. Oysters are a great addition to the gumbo. 
—Mrs. C. C. Black, "Deerland." 

Ground-pea Soup— Shell one quart of roasted ground- 
peas, rub off the dry, brown skin carefully, pound the nuts 
to a smooth paste in a mortar, gradually stir into it one quart 
of fresh sweet milk, let it simmer gently until it thickens, 
stirring frequently to prevent burning. Add to this one quart 
of oysters, drained, a little cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 
As soon as the oysters are sufficiently cooked, serve— Mrs. 
Frank H. Orme, Atlanta. 

Gumbo Fillet.— This can be made of either chicken, oysters 
or crabs. Fry your chicken, also a dozen onions, put in the 
soup pot, pour over them two quarts of boiling water, add 
some boiled ham, cut up fine. Fifteen minutes before you 
take it up, add your oysters. When they are plump, put m 
two tablespoons of fillet, dissolved in cold water. Serve 
with rice. 

Fillet.— Take young sassafras leaves, dry them in the 
shade; when crisp break them up and sift them through a 
fine sieve, or piece of muslin— Mrs. Neville Black, New Or- 

Mock Turtle.— Put one beef bone to simmer (not to boil) 
in a small stone vessel of water for two hours. Have ready 
some flour, browned. Add one teacup of browned flour 



Soups. 7 

mixed to a smooth paste, six cloves, one teaspoon of celery 
seed, red and black pepper to taste. Put no salt in the soup 
until it is nearly ready to send to the table. If liked, add to- 
mato catsup and wine. Always skim off grease as it rises. 
—Mrs. M. G. Holliday, Aberdeen, Miss 

Chicken Gumbo.— Put in a soup pot one tablespoon of 
sifted flour, and the same of lard. Let it become a rich 
brown; add one chicken, cut up; season with salt, pep- 
per, onions and a little tomato. Pour into this two quarts 
of hot water. Let boil two hours. Thirty minutes before 
serving, add one quart of oysters, one tablespoon of mashed 
bay leaves, and one tablespoon of butter. Serve hot. — Mrs. 
D. N. Speer, Atlanta. 

Mock Bisque Soup.— One quart of milk, a large tablespoon 
of butter, one bay leaf, one-fourth teaspoon of soda, a blade 
of mace, one pint cream tomatoes, a sprig of parsley, one 
teaspoon sugar, three tablespoons of flour. Put the toma- 
toes in a saucepan with the bay leaf, parsley and mace, 
cover and stand on back of stove fifteen minutes. Put 
the milk in a double boiler, put the butter and flour to- 
gether, add the milk and stir until it thickens. Strain the 
tomatoes and put into the soup tureen. Add sugar and 
soda, pour in quickly the boiling milk, stir and serve immedi- 
ately. If not ready to serve, keep both tomatoes and milk 
hot, separately, then mix and add the soda and sugar just 
the moment needed.— Mrs. Loulie M. Gordon, Atlanta. 

Oyster Soup. — Two quarts oysters, two quarts milk, one 
tablespoon butter, two of sifted flour, one and one-half wine- 
glass of sherry wine, a few blades of mace and pepper. Boil 
the milk and stir in the flour and butter already creamed to- 



8 Soups. 

gether, then add the oysters; when done add the wine, drop 
ny drop, to prevent curdling. Dish and serve immediately. 
—Mrs. Wm. H. Atwood, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

Lenten Soup.— Wash one-fourth pound small sago in cold 
water, put it on the fire in three quarts cold water, with a 
level teaspoon of salt, as much cayenne pepper as can be 
held on the point of a small knife blade, a saltspoon of 
grated nutmeg. Stir the sago frequently to prevent burn- 
ing. Cook until entirely transparent, adding more water, 
if required. When the sago is transparent add one-fourth 
pound sugar and boiling water to make three quarts of 
soup, then put in a quart of claret, or any good domestic red 
wine, and stir it until dissolved. W 7 hen soup is cold serve it, 
or ice it and serve cold.— Mrs. James Wotton, " West End." 

Cream Tomato Soup.— One can of tomatoes, one pint milk, 
one pint hot water, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
soda, one-fourth spoon pepper. Melt in another vessel one 
tablespoon of butter and when hot, add one tablespoon of 
flour. Cook a few minutes, then add one cup of milk, slowly 
stirring all the time. Cook till smooth and creamy. Rub to- 
matoes through strainer, adding hot water slowly, then soda ; 
put both together and add rest of milk. Let all reach boil- 
ing point. Serve hot.— Mrs. S. P. Callaway, LaGrange, Ga. 

Cream or Corn Soup.— One can grated corn, one and one- 
half pints hot water, one tablespoon butter, one flour, one 
pint hot milk, one teaspoon salt, one-fouith pepper. Melt 
the butter and when hot and bubbling add the flour, cook 
until frothy, stirring constantly. Add slowly the milk, stir 
and add the corn, with hot water, salt and pepper. Serve 
immediately.— Mrs. Harriet E. Johnson, Inman Park. 



OYSTERS AND FISH. 

Fish Pudding".— Take any kind of fish you like. Salmon 
or trout is best. Put on and boil fifteen minutes. Takeoff 
and pick up fine. Make a cream sauce as for chicken cro- 
quettes. Put a layer of fish and one of sauce, until your 
baking dish is full. Put on top a layer of grated cheese 
and bread crumbs. Bake until brown and serve with cream 
sauce. 

Cream Sauce. — One pint cream, two pounds butter, two 
tablespoons of flour. Put butter in a saucepan and 
melt. Put in your flour. Stir in your flour until well mixed, 
then pour over your cream and stir until it thickens. — Mrs. 
Hoke Smith, Washington, D. C. 

Oyster Coquille— Chop oysters rather fine. To one quart 
add two hard-boiled eggs, two raw eggs, well beaten, a small 
quantity of minced pickle, one tablespoon lemon juice, three- 
fourths teacup butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Thicken 
with crumbs of toasted bread. Put on stove and let it get 
thoroughly heated, stirring constantly. Bake in shells, 
with crumbs on top. — Mrs. S. B. Hudson, Columbus, Miss. 

Creamed Oysters. — To one quart of cream use one quart 
oysters ; let the cream come to a boil ; thicken with cracker 
dust, until of the consistency of pudding batter; season with 
pepper and salt. Pour in the oysters and keep on stove until 
hot through. Then place in oven and bake. If cream is not 
obtainable, milk can be used with addition of fresh butter. 
—Mrs. Alex. Smith, Atlanta. 

Pickled Oysters.— To every quart of large, fresh oysters 
add one pint apple vinegar, one tablespoon cloves, one of all- 
spice, one teaspoon of salt. Add no water to oysters. Wash 
them and let come to a boil, pour over vinegar and 
spices. Add salt and let all come to a boil, and when cold 



10 Oysters and Fish. 

they are ready to serve. Use no ground spices. — Mrs. Stokes 
Gregory, Atlanta. 

Mock Oysters.— One can of corn chopped fine, two well 
beaten eggs, one cup milk, butter— size of an egg — salt and 
pepper. Thicken with a little flour and fry in hot lard.— 
Miss Nettie Sergeant, Atlanta. 

Fish a la Creme. — Take any kind of fish — boiled. Pick the 
fish to pieces, taking out the bones ; place in a baking dish. 
Beat together a tablespoon of butter and a little flour. 
Pour on this a piut of boiling cream, stir smooth and sea- 
son with salt and pepper, yolks of two eggs, well beaten. 
Pour over the fish, grate a little cheese over the top and 
bake twenty minutes. — Mrs. E. T. Cook, Montgomery, Ala. 

Deviled Crabs.— For one dozen persons use one large can of 
crabs, taking care to first remove all those hard particles 
which maybe in it. Take three eggs, beaten separately, mix 
them, then stir in the crabs, one tablespoon at a time, until 
all of the crabs are used. Then add the juice of a half lemon, 
three tablespoons melted butter, one teaspoon salt and one- 
third spoon red pepper, two tablespoons cracker crumbs. 
Putin the shells and cover with cracker crumbs mixed with a 
little butter. Bake in hot oven a few minutes. — Mrs. Grant 
Wilkins, Atlanta. 

Hardshell Crabs.— Remove meat from four dozen hard- 
shelled crabs and chop up fine. Put in a saucepan one 
onion, cut up in small pieces, and one ounce butter. When 
beginning to color slightly add a dozen chopped mushrooms, 
a tablespoon of chopped parsley and four ounces hard 
crumbs, previously soaked in consomme, and then pressed 
almost dry, a small pinch of salt and pepper, a little cay- 



Ousters and Fish. 11 

enne, and half a gill of tomato sauce. Mix all well together 
and cook for five minutes. Wash the shells and fill them with 
the mixture, cover with hard crumbs and a very little 
melted butter on top. Send to the oven and color a light 
brown. — Mrs. Lyden-Meekin, Baltimore, Md. 

Shrimps in Bell Peppers.— A soup plate of freshly-picked 
shrimps, cut a lictle (not chop), dust them with a little 
nutmeg and black pepper, then add to them a teacup of 
rich cream and a tablespoon piled with butter, then add a 
teacup, scant, of grated breadcrumbs (not toasted crumbs), 
and lastly a wineglass of sherry wine. Place in peppers that 
have been in cold water for two hours, sprinkle lightly with 
crumbs, place in a pan and bake. — Miss Mary A. Garrard, 
Isle of Hope. 

Deviled Shrimp.— One can shrimp, one can tomatoes, one 
tablespoon butter ; red or black pepper and salt to taste. 
Stew tomatoes and when nearly done, season. Mince shrimp 
and add to tomatoes, mixing thoroughly. A half cup of to- 
mato catsup is an improvement. Cover the whole with 
cracker dust and brown on top.— Mrs. James LeConte 
Anderson, Macon, Ga. 

Baked Salmon.— Put in water to soak about two slices of 
stale bread, then press water out thoroughly; into the 
bread put one-fourth teaspoon red pepper, one-half teaspoon 
salt, two tablespoons of Worcestershire sauce, one table- 
spoon of melted butter, parsley, or celery tops, to taste. 
Mix all thoroughly ; break into the mixture three (or more) 
eggs and beatup lightly. Putinto this one can salmon steak 
and stir enough to mix thoroughly with bread, etc.; use a 
light touch in mixing. Place in a well-buttered pan, put a 



12 Oysters and Fish. 

few pieces of butter over top and bake until brown.— Mrs. 
Julius Alexander, Atlanta. 

Turbot a la Creme.— Boil your fish with plenty of salt, 
remove bones and flake it in as large pieces as you can. Boil 
one quart cream, stirring into it three tablespoons fish until 
smooth, one large onion, a small bunch parsley, let boil five 
minutes, then take p; rsley and onion out and add a quarter 
pound melted butter. Butter a deep dish ; put in a layer of fish , 
then one of cream, then a thin layer of cheese, alternating 
until dish is full. Cream conies on top. Then a layer of bread 
crumbs and cheese. Garnish dish with parsley. Any fish 
free from bones can be used.— Mrs. Charles Hopkins, Atlanta. 

Fillet of Flounder a la Joinville.— Skin two flounders and 
cut the flesh from the bones with a sharp knife. There will 
be eight fillets, which must be rolled into eight little turbans 
and each fastened with a wooden toothpick. Put into the 
dish one ounce of butter and when it bubbles add fish. 
Cover closely and let them simmer a few minutes ; then add 
a small glass of cider champagne, one small onion, a little 
lemon juice, three pepper corns and a pinch of salt, and 
simmer again till done. Remove the fish, thicken the juice 
with one ounce of butter well rubbed with one tablespoon 
flour, and strain it over the fillets. A very nice addition is 
to have some oysters cooked in their own juice with which 
to trim the fillets.— Mrs. Robert Collins, Atlanta. 

Steamed Salmon.— One lean salmon, four eggs beaten light, 
four tablespoons butter melted but not hot, one-half cup fine 
bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt and parsley. Chop 
fish fine and rub butter into it until smooth; beat the crumbs 




MRS. JOSEPH THOMPSON, 
President Board of Women Managers Cotton States and International Exposition. 



Meats, 13 

into the eggs and season before working together. Put 
into a buttered mold and steam one hour. 

Sauce. — One cup sweet milk heated to a boil, thickened with 
one tablespoon corn starch and one tablespoon butter 
rubbed together, the liquor from salmon, one raw egg, one 
tablespoon of tomato catsup, a pinch of cayenne pepper and 
mace; add milk carefully.— Miss Marion H. May, Atlanta. 

Diamond Back Terrapin.— Select females seven inches under 
bottom of shell ; place alive in boiling water. When upper 
and lower shell easily separate, carefully remove the gall 
from the large lobe of the liver, by making a deep incision 
entirely around the gall sac to prevent its bursting. Next 
remove the lungs, which are under the upper portion of the 
back, on the top shell. Everything else is eatable. Place 
in a chopping dish, add cayenne pepper, salt and butter to 
taste. Bring to a boiling point, add heated champagne, 
sherry, or old Madeira. Serve hot. —Mrs. Frederick F. Ly den, 
Baltimore. 

MEATS. 

TO SERVE WITH MEAT AND FISH. 
Roast beef should be served with grated horse-radish. 
Roast mutton with currant jelly. 
Boiled mutton with caper sauce. 
Roast pork with apple sauce. 
Roast lamb with mint sauce and green peas. 
Venison or wild duck with black currant jelly. 
Roast goose with apple sauce, or cranberries. 
Roast turkey with oyster sauce and cranberries. 
Roast chicken with bread sauce and apple jelly. 



14 Meats. 

Compote of pigeon with mushroom sauce. 

Broiled fresh mackerel with sauce of stewed cranberries. 

Broiled bluefish with white cream sauce. 

Broiled shad with rice. 

Fresh salmon with green peas and cream sauce. 



Chicken Coquille. — Boil a chicken as for salad. When 
taken out of the pot, save a little of the stock. Cut the 
meat into small squares, put into a dish and cover with 
sherry. Put a cupful of milk to boil, then take one table- 
spoon of flour, one tablespoon of butter, add this to the 
milk. While boiling, stir constantly. Into this put mush- 
rooms, one cupful, a little of the stock, put chicken, mush- 
rooms and milk into a dish and mix thoroughly. After 
putting into shells sift bread crumbs on each, then put 
in oven and brown slightly. — Mrs. R. T. Bishop, Mont- 
gomery, Ala. 

Creole Stew.— Put into the stewpan one-half onion cut 
fine, one teaspoon of flour, one can of tomatoes, pepper 
and salt to taste, one and one-half cups water. Into this 
put one chicken, cut up as for frying. Sift flour lightly over 
the chicken, and let the whole remain for one hour (do not 
let it boil). Then it is ready for use, to be served with rice, 
which has been boiled until each grain stands alone. Serve 
the rice first on the plate and put the stew over it. Dinner 
dish.— Mrs. W. A. Hemphill, Atlanta. 

Stuffed Mutton Chops.— Select loin chops, cut one and 
one-half inches thick, and trim them closely. With a sharp- 
pointed knife make a pocket in each, reaching to the backbone. 
Fill with a forcemeat of sausage and bread crumbs, adding 



Meats. 15 

more seasoning to taste. Fasten the mouth of the pocket 
with a toothpick skewer. Broil them on each side until 
well browned, then set into a hot oven for six minutes. To 
be served with the following sauce : Mix one tablespoon 
vinegar, one teaspoon lemon juice, one saltspoon salt, one 
tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, and heat over hot water. 
Brown one-third cup butter. Strain it into the mixture 
and pour at once over the chops.— Mrs. J. D. Collins, At- 
lanta. 

Tongue Croquettes.— Mix one cup of cold tongue, 
chopped fine; one cup of cold mashed potatoes. Put this 
mixture in a saucepan. Stir over the fire until the potatoes 
are soft. Add one unbeaten egg. Mix carefully, dip in the 
yellow of one egg, roll in cracker dust, make in shapes and 
fry in boiling lard. — Mrs. B. G. Swanson, LaGrange, Ga. 

Birds Dressed with Mushrooms,— Prepare the birds as if 
they were to be broiled. Put them in a chafing dish, or 
roaster with top. To a dozen birds put a cup of water. 
A lump of butter on each bird. A little red pepper. When 
half done add salt, a little flour to thicken the gravy, half 
a pint of port wine, tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce 
and the juice of one lemon. It requires about three or four 
hours to cook.— Mrs. Rhode W. Hill, Atlanta. 

Champagne Sauce for Ham.— One tablespoon of sugar, 
one wineglass of vinegar. Put in saucepan on fire to boil 
until reduced one-half. Add one quart of chicken broth, one 
glass sherry. Boil about five or ten minutes and it is ready 
to use over sliced cold boiled ham. — Miss Anna Lumpkin, 
Lebanon, Tenn. 



16 Meats. 

Grillard. — In two tablespoons of hot lard put two 
rounds of veal steak, cut thin, with one teaspoon flour sifted 
over it. When brown add one small onion, cut fine; one- 
half dozen or one-half can tomatoes. Stir often, add red 
pepper and salt to taste. Cover closely. In twenty minutes, 
when brown, add one-half pint of water. Cook slowly one 
hour. Serve with rice. — Mrs. Florine Holt, Atlanta. 

Recipe for Quails.— Dress sixteen quails as you would a 
chicken to bake. Put in roasting pan with a little hot wa- 
ter. Piece of butter on each bird. Teacup of port wine, 
two tablespoons of Worcestershire sauce, red pepper pod. 
Cut in strips over the birds and salt to taste. Cook two 
hours in closely-covered pan. Boil two-pound can small 
mushrooms until tender. Do not let water on birds become 
exhausted. After they have cooked one hour add mush- 
rooms. Just before serving, thicken with flour and milk. 
Serve all on one dish with parsley. — Mrs. James English, 
Atlanta. 

Cranberries. — One quart cranberries, one scant quart 
granulated sugar, one pint cold water. Wash the berries 
well, put in granite saucepan, pour the water over them 
and set on back of stove where they will cook slowly. 
When they are softly boiling add one-fourth of the sugar, 
pressing the berries down, but not stirring them. When 
the sugar has melted add another one-fourth and so on 
until the sugar is all used and turned to syrup. Do not on 
any account stir the fruit. When the berries are soft and 
clear they are done. — Miss Josephine Inman, Atlanta. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter.— A delightful sauce to pour over a 
broiled bird, chicken or fish. Mix together cold, one ounce 



Meats. 17 

of butter, a tablespoon ot chopped parsley, a teaspoon of 
lemon juice and one-fourth saltspoonof salt. — Mrs. Lila P. 
Hull, Atlanta. 

Syrian Dish (Yabrah).— One pound mutton in small bits, 
one-half pound rice washed seven times. Mix and season to 
taste with pepper and salt. Take large head of cabbage, 
pick the leaves separately, scald thoroughly and cut away 
the heavy parts. Make the leaves in pieces four or five 
inches square, and into each piece put about a dessert 
spoon of the meat and roll tightly like a cigarette. Pack 
tightly in saucepan and cover with hot water. Let boil 
hard one hour. Just before removing from the fire pour in 
the juice of three lemons. When grape leaves can be had, 
use in preference to cabbage. — Miss Sophie David, Damas- 
cus, Syria. 

Lamb's Head Stew.— Take the head, skin it or scrape it, 
either one; then split it open and put it to boil with the 
liver, the lights and the heart. Let all boil until tender; 
then cut it up fine. If there are any bones in the pot take 
them out, and before you add the meat to the liquid again 
thicken it with a little browned flour and color it with a lit- 
tle burnt sugar, seasoning it with mace, cloves and allspice. 
Return your cut-up meat to the liquid, boil up and serve 
with wine and quartered lemons. — Miss Sallie L. Wylly, 
Darien, Ga. 

Stewed Kidneys with Mushrooms.— Boil your kidneys or 
a small calf's liver five or six hours. Let it stand until the 
following day, cut it into small dice and put to cook in a 
quart of water. Boil an hour, and just before serving sea- 
son high with salt, black and red pepper. Then add a pint 



18 Meats. 

of canned mushrooms, a tablespoon of butter, a table- 
spoon of lemon juice, two tablespoons of rum or sherry 
wine and a small piece of lemon peel. Thicken with a table- 
spoon of corn starch mixed in a little water, and serve.— 
Mrs. Harry Jackson, Atlanta. 

Boiled Ham.— Soak the ham in water one night; then boil 
in water and one pint of white wine vinegar. Allow it to 
get cold in its own liquor; then skin, sprinkle sugar over top 
and bake until brown.— Mrs. Warren Akin, Cartersville, Ga. 

Thanksgiving" Turkey.— For one plump, young turkey al- 
low one-half pound of bread crumbs, one-half pound of suet, 
a small bunch of parsley, three small onions, one and 
one-half pints of cream, two tablespoons of flour, seasoning, 
one teacup of milk, six whole tomatoes and the juice of 
six, one-half pound butter. After washing turkey 
thoroughly inside and out, and allowing it to become quite 
dry, dust lightly with flour. Suet, carefully shredded, must 
be chopped fine with parsley and onion. Add this to 
the bread crumbs and season with salt, pepper and a 
dash of nutmeg. This mixture must be moistened with one 
pint of cream and mixed up into balls an inch or more in cir- 
cumference. Use tomatoes that have been put up whole 
and proceed to fill the turkey with tomatoes, alternating 
with one ball, until quite full. Into a saucepan put the 
iuice of the other six tomatoes, one-half pound of butter, 
seasoning and a teaspoon of flour, and allow to simmer 
slowly until it thickens. When the turkey is first basted, 
throw the whole of the sauce well over it, continuing to 
baste the fowl until brown and crisp. The gravy is made 
by pouring balance of cream and milk into the dripping, 



Meats. 19 

which put back into the oven and keep until it boils well. 
Place in a gravy bowl. Serve both sauce and turkey very 
hot.— Mrs. M. C. Kiser, Atlanta. 

Brain Patties.— For twelve patties put two sets of brains 
and one box of mushrooms. Boil brains done. Take off 
and put in clear water and lemon juice. Chop up mushroom 
and brains together, add tablespoon of butter, half a cup of 
cream, stew a few moments with pepper, salt and nutmeg 
to taste. Serve hot in patties. — Mrs. E. P. Black, Atlanta. 

Imitation Pate de Foie Gras.— Boil one pound of calf liver 
in slightly salted water until quite tender. Pound the liver 
in mortar, moistening from time to time with melted but- 
ter, seasoning well with cayenne pepper, made mustard, 
grated nutmeg and add a tablespoon of water in which 
has been boiled one onion and one clove. When well mixed 
pack in small jelly pots and pour melted butter over the 
surface. Small triangular bits of liver and gizzards of 
fowls, and bits of tongue may be inserted here and there to 
imitate the truffle found in the genuine Strasburg patties. 
If well made this mixture will keep good for weeks. — Mrs. 
Sauloel McKinley Bussey, Atlanta. 

Beef a la Daube.— Four pounds of beef, the round. Pierce 
it with a knife and in the place slip slices of bacon. Flour 
it and brown it well; then cover it with boiling water, add- 
ing twelve onions chopped fine, dessert spoon of allspice, 
parsley, thyme and bay leaves. Boil for four hours. Thick- 
en the gravy with brown flour. — Mrs. Alex. King, Atlanta. 

Apple Duck. — Take one dozen firm, glossy, acid apples. 
With a penknife make a round hole in the bloom end of 



20 Meats. 

each, size of a silver quarter. With an orange spoon careful- 
ly remove the cores and insides, having an even thickness of 
an inch next to the skin. Have one pint of cold duck (chick- 
en or veal may be used) chopped fine with boiled brains of 
a calf. For every pint of this meat allow a half pint of rich 
milk, tablespoon of butter, two tablespoons of flour, table- 
spoon of chopped parsley, a little grated nutmeg, a dash of 
cayenne. Put the milk on to boil. Thicken it with the but- 
ter and flour, rub together, take from the fire, mix and 
cream, adding the meat. Fill the apple shell with this mix- 
ture. Sprinkle bread on top of opening, small piece on each. 
Bake until well done, but not too soft. Garnish with pars- 
ley. Serve with bread sticks as a course, luncheon, or tea. — 
Mrs. A. J. Orme, Atlanta. 

Roast Pigeons.— Select large fat birds just ready to fly. 
Dress birds for stuffing. For twelve birds take one-half a 
loaf of light bread, moisten with sweet milk, add a quarter 
of a pound of butter, red and black pepper and salt to taste. 
Cut fine a small box of truffles and add to dressing. Stuff 
the birds with this and put them to roast, keeping them 
constantly basted with a sauce made of one-half cup Wor- 
cestershire and nearly one-half pound butter. Cook for 
about an hour or longer. These are delightful for either 
dinner or supper.— Mrs. Annie Tarver Hobbs, Albany, Ga. 

Sauce for Roast Lamb and Mutton.— Two tablespoons 
Worcestershire sauce, two of wine, four of vinegar, small 
pieces of butter, mustard, pepper and salt to taste; add a 
small quantity of lamb gravy, warm until the butter melts. 
— Miss Delphine Force, St. Louis, Mo. 




/ * 




MRS. LOULIE M. GORDON, 
Representative at Large and Chairman Committee on Woman's Congresses. 



Meats. 21 

Chicken Terrapin.— Cream together one tablespoon of but- 
ter and flour. Put in a saucepan with a large cupful of 
cream or milk. When it comes to a boil, stir in one-half can 
of mushrooms cut in quarters ; then a soup plate of minced 
turkey or chicken . Season with nutmeg, cayenne pepper, 
salt, and lastly, a large claret glass of sherry. Serve either 
in pastry shells or brown twenty minutes in a baking dish. 
—Mrs. Billups Phinizy, Augusta, Ga. 

Chicken Croquettes.— One pint of very finely-chopped chick- 
en, four eggs boiled hard, with a little onion and a little 
parsley mixed with the chicken, pinch of salt and pepper, 
two tablespoons of tomato sauce, butter size of an egg, one- 
half cup of sweet milk or a beaten raw egg. Mold them 
in a wine glass ; then roll them in beaten egg, and then in 
cracker dust. Fry in a deep vessel in very hot lard. — Mrs. 
William Rawson, Atlanta. 

Stuffed Ham. — Boil your ham until done, remove the skin 
and with a sharp knife make incisions in it to the bone, 
lengthways of the ham. Then make dressing of light bread 
soaked in milk, one onion, a little butter, celery seed, red and 
black pepper. Mix thoroughly and stuff the incisions you 
have made in ham. Grate cracker crumbs over the ham, 
return to the oven and let brown.— Mrs. Marion Lumpkin 
Wilson. 

Marrow Fritters.— (Served with Beefsteak.) Get from the 
butcher several pieces of marrow in as large pieces as pos- 
sible. Boil them in a shallow pan, a little salt, for a min- 
ute. Drain away the water very carefully, add a good 
pinch of pepper and a teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
Let the batter be stiff and drop by spoonfuls into boiling 



22 Meals. 

lard. When light brown lift out and make a border of 
them around broiled steak. — Miss June MeKinley, Atlanta. 

Delicious Stuffing 1 for Fowls.— Two dozen oysters. Chop 
them fine and mix with bread crumbs one full ounce of 
butter, one tablespoon of chopped parsley, a little grated 
lemon peel, one teaspoon of salt, one of black pepper, a lit- 
tle cayenne pepper. The great secret of cooking is to have 
the ingredients so blended that it is impossible to tell of 
what it is composed. Moisten the stuffing a little with hot 
milk beaten with yolk of one egg. — Mrs. Annie Shoecraft, 
Rochester, N. Y. 

Patties au Salpicon.— One pint cupful of chicken cut in 
dice, one pint cupful of rich cream sauce, pinch of parsley 
chopped fine. The chicken having been prepared as for 
salad, put into a saucepan, season with white pepper or 
cayenne, a grating of nutmeg, the juice of one-half lemon, 
little salt, and one ounce of butter. Next pour over it the 
cream sauce and let it gently simmer at the back of a range 
until time to dish up; then fill the pattie cases with mixture. 
—Mrs. P. H. Snook, Atlanta. 

For Boiling 1 Ham.— Take a ham weighing from fifteen to 
eighteen pounds, wash thoroughly, and put it to boil with 
water sufficient to cover it, into which a pint of vinegar has 
been poured. Boil three hours. When half the time has ex- 
pired, turn over. Remove the skin, trim nicely, place in a 
dripping pan, and pour a pint of vinegar over it. Take the 
yolk of an egg and beat into it a cupful of brown sugar. 
With a knife spread this over the ham until all the top is 
cohered. Bake one-half an hour, then baste with the vin- 



Meats. 23 

egar. This gives a flavor like champagne.— Mrs. George T. 
Fry, Sr., Chattanooga, Tenn. 

Creamed Chicken.— One chicken of four and one-half 
pounds, or two of three pounds, and four pounds sweet- 
breads, a can of mushrooms. Boil chicken and sweetbreads, 
and when cool, cut up as if for salad. In a saucepan put a 
quart of cream or new milk ; in another, four large table 
spoons of butter and five even ones of flour. Stir till melted, 
and then pour over hot cream. Stir until it thickens. 
Flavor with one-half small onion grated , and a very little nut- 
meg grated. Season highly with black and red pepper. Put 
chicken in saucepan, all in baking dish, cover with bread 
crumbs and several pieces of butter. Bake ten or twenty 
minutes until done. For twelve persons. — Mrs. A. G. Blincoe, 
Bardstown, Ky. 

Veal a la Mode.— Three and one-half pounds of round of 
veal chopped fine, three eggs, one-half cup milk, butter size 
of an egg, four crackers rolled fine, two teaspoons salt, 
one teaspoon pepper, one grated nutmeg. Mix thor- 
oughly, make into loaf and bake one hour. — Mrs. James F. 
Leary, Atlanta. 

Sweetbreads.— Parboil and place them in cold water. 
When cold, dip in the yolk of well-beaten egg; then roll in 
bread or cracker crumbs highly seasoned. Put in pan with 
butter, a little veal or chicken stock. Bake a light brown. 
Add the juice of a lemon, or if preferred, a little sherry wine 
to gravy. Serve on toast.— Mrs. Penelope Barnett, Grant- 
ville, Ga. 

Baked Calf's Head.— Wash the head well in cold water, 
crack the bones, and put into four quarts of cold water. 



24 Meats. 

Set upon the back of the stove and let simmer for twenty- 
four hours. Take the head from the pot, place on a dish 
and carefully remove all the bone and the brains. Put the 
latter into a bowl and set aside for soup. Chop the meat 
rather fine, and season with a half teaspoon ground allspice; 
cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Put into a baking pan 
and set into the oven until nicely browned. Serve on a flat 
dish garnished with thin slices of lemon; pour over meat 
one or two wineglasses of good sherry and serve hot. — 
Mrs. Henry Boylston, Atlanta. 

Coquille de Volaille.— Boil until tender, two chickens, 
then remove the rice and mince fine the white meat and 
place in a porcelain kettle with one tablespoon of chop- 
ped parsley, one and one-half tablespoons of butter, 
one can of mushrooms chopped fine, and one-half can truf- 
fles chopped very fine, ( mushrooms and truffles should be 
tender), stir gently for thirty minutes, then add three- 
fourths of a pint of sweet cream, pepper and salt to your 
taste. When nearly ready to boil stir in one-half a teacup 
sweet cream (into which you have mixed two tablespoons 
of flour) ; this should thicken the coquille. But the art of 
making them a success is not to make them too dry nor too 
thin. Have ready one dozen silver or porcelain shells, fill 
with the coquille mixture; sprinkle over the top toasted bread 
crumbs. Put in the oven for ten minutes to brown. Serve 
very hot. As an entree, it is unsurpassed. A wineglass of 
sherry added just before placing in the shells is an improve- 
ment, but not a necessity. — Mrs. Jno. P. Richardson, New 
Orleans, La. 



PICKLES. 

Red Pepper Catsup.— One gallon vinegar, add eighty bell 
peppers, two tablespoons salt, two tablespoons mustard, 
three onions, handful horse-radish if you haveit. Boil until 
the pulp slips from skin. When cold rub through sieve, bot- 
tle and seal it.— Mrs. M. J. Wisdom, Corinth, Ga. 

Grape Catsup.— Five pounds grapes boiled and strained. 
Take two and one-half pints of sugar to one pint of vine- 
gar, one tablespoon of cinnamon, one of cloves, one of all- 
spice, one of pepper, one-half pound of salt. Boil until the 
catsup is thick. Put in bottles and seal.— Miss Anna Force, 
St. Louis, Mo. 

Mango Pickle. — One peck of mangoes, after having been in 
brine. Remove all seed and soak for twenty-four hours, 
then put them on the fire in a little water and vinegar with 
one-half ounce of turmeric and one tablespoon of alum, and 
a few grape or fig leaves. Let come to a boil, then take off 
and stuff with a dressing made of a medium-size cabbage 
chopped fine, one-half dozen onions, one-half pound each of 
white and black mustard seed, one pound of brown sugar, 
two tablespoons of whole allspice, two of whole cloves, one 
of ground cinnamon, two of black pepper, two of celery 
seed, one-fourth pound of mustard, a little mace and a little 
horse-radish chopped fine; mix with a little vinegar. Fill 
the mangoes, put in jars and cover with good apple vine- 
gar.— Mrs. R. M. Bell, Montgomery, Ala. 

Tomato Catsup,— The tomatoes should be fully ripe and 
free from decay, scalded and pressed through a sieve. To 
one gallon of the juice, put one quart of sharp vinegar, four 
tablespoons of salt, four of black pepper, three of mustard, 
one of allspice, and four or five pods of red pepper. Slowly 



26 Pickles. 

simmer in a preserving kettle, for three or four hours, oc- 
casionally stirring and skimming it. When cooked down 
quite thick, take out the red pepper, and it is ready for use. 
Bottle when cold.— Miss M. J. Green, Atlanta. 

Chili Sauce. — One quart peeled, ripe tomatoes, two tea- 
cups sugar, five of vinegar, two of onions, three small pods 
of green peppers, with seed removed; chop all fine; two 
tablespoons of mixed spices, beaten fine. Mix and cook 
thick.— Mrs. R. L. Palmer, Atlanta. 

Artichoke Pickles.— To one gallon best cider vinegar add 
three-fourths teacup white sugar, eight medium onions, cut 
fine, two cloves of garlic, cut fine, one-third teacup white 
ground pepper, two tablespoons of powdered horse-radish, 
two of celery seed, two of turmeric; salt to taste. Scrape 
artichokes well, and pour prepared vinegar over them. Tie 
up carefully— Mrs. T. H. Bell, Atlanta. 

PickieUly. — One peck small green tomatoes; slice and put 
them in salt for twenty -four hours. Then take one-fourth 
pound white mustard seed, four tablespoons of ground mus- 
tard, three of black pepper in grains, two ounces ground 
black pepper, one ounce cloves, one ounce mace, four nut- 
megs (pulverize large spices), twelve large onions sliced ; put 
layers of tomatoes, onions and spices in kettle, cover with 
vinegar, and cook slowly for three hours. Stir constantly. 
—Mrs. W. A. Bass, Atlanta. 

Sweet Pickled Beets. — Boil the beets in a porcelain kettle 
until tender, place them in cold water and remove the skin. 
Cut in any desirably shaped slices and put in glass jars. 
Make syrup of vinegar and sugar in proportion of one and 
one-half pint of sugar to one quart of vinegar, one teaspoon 



Pickles. 27 

of ground cloves, tied in a cloth, pour boiling "hot over beets 
and seal. — Mrs. S. K. Linscott, Holton, Kansas. 

Green Pepper Mangoes.— Take the cap off the stem end of 
the pod with a pair of scissors; scrape out the seed. Lay the 
pods in weak salt and water for one hour. Take well-headed 
cabbage; chop very fine. To every quart add one table- 
spoon of salt, one of ground pepper, two of white mustard 
seed, one teaspoon of ground mustard. Mix this well. 
Chop fine a small quantity of horse-radish. Drain the pep- 
pers, stuff with the mixture, replace the caps and tie secure- 
ly. Pack in jar with the small end down and pour over 
cold vinegar. Spices and sugar can be used if preferred. 
Will be ready for use in three weeks. — Mrs. Frank P. Rice, 
Atlanta. 

Peach Mangoes.— Select firm, large peaches and with a 
sharp knife cut in half. Cut out the stone, replace the 
pieces and tie them together. Have ready a sufficient quan- 
tity of chopped cabbage and onions which has been covered 
with salt and water the day before. Throw the first into 
cold water and then season with white mustard and celery 
seed. Fill the peaches and tie them again. To one gallon of 
vinegar put three pounds of granulated sugar, spice to 
taste, two tablespooons of mustard which has been mixed 
with cold vinegar, and two of turmeric. When this is at 
boiling point throw in the fruit and allow it to remain five 
minutes. Put away in jars while hot. — Mrs. Wm. B. Lowe, 
Atlanta. 

Pickled Figs. — Pick the figs with the stems on them when 
they are swelling to ripen. Soak ten or twelve hours in 
brine, get good apple vinegar, add three pounds of brown 



28 Pickles. 

sugar to every gallon of vinegar, with such spices as you 
prefer, cloves, allspice, cinnamon and black pepper. Put the 
vinegar, spices and sugar on (sufficient vinegar to cover the 
figs) in a kettle and when it begins to simmer (wash the figs 
clean of all salt) put the figs in and let them get boiling hot, 
take them out and boil the vinegar down some, then pour 
over the figs boiling hot. They will be ready for use in 
eight days.— Miss Lucy Hatchett, Montgomery, Ala. 

Chili Sauce.— Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, scald, skin and 
slice; also eight onions, six green peppers, eight table- 
spoons of salt, eight of sugar, one of cinnamon, one of all- 
spice, one of nutmeg, one of cloves. When it has boiled 
three hours and is quite thick, add eight teacups of vinegar 
and one tablespoon of celery seed. Seal while hot.— Mrs. 
Mary R. K. Fowlkes, Selma, Ala. 

Watermelon Rind Pickle.— After cutting the rind in any 
shape you fancy, soak twelve hours in lime water, made by 
dissolving two handfuls of lime in three gallons of water, 
change from bottom to top twice. Next scald in alum wa- 
ter. Then put in preserving kettle and cover with water, 
boil half an hour. Take out rind and plunge in cold water, 
repeating the process six times. Then boil in ginger tea 
half an hour. To make syrup— eight pounds of rind, five of 
sugar, three pints vinegar, two tablespoons of spice, one of 
mace and two of cinnamon. Put spices in muslin bag and 
boil with rind till tender. This is a splendid recipe and will 
repay for trouble.— Mrs. Daniel Chandler Jones, Atlanta. 

Ax-Jar Pickles.— To each gallon of vinegar add one ounce 
nutmeg grated, one ounce mace, one ounce allspice, one 
ounce cloves, one ounce ginger, one ounce turmeric, one-half 




MRS. ALBERT H COX, 
Auditor and Chairman Committee on Household Economics. 



Vegetables. 29 

pound white sugar, one-third pound each of white and 
black mustard seed, one-fourth pound ground mustard in 
vinegar, one pint of rum, a little horse-radish grated. Keep 
jar well stirred ; add a few garlic cloves sliced. — Mrs. J. K. 
Barnwell, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

Spiced Apples.— Eight pounds apples peeled and cored, 
four pounds of suga/, one quart vinegar, one ounce stick 
cinnamon, one-half ounce whole cloves. Boil vinegar, sugar 
and spice together. While boiling add apples, a half at a 
time. Boil until tender. Twenty minutes will suffice. Re- 
move and add others until all have been in the jar. Boil 
the syrup until thick as you like and pour over. Should 
there be too little to cover the fruit, sweeten and scald 
enough vinegar to thoroughly cover the apples. Cover the 
jar with a wax cloth.— Mrs. A. D. Adair, Atlanta. 



VEGETABLES. 

Time for Cooking Vegetables.— Green peas, one-half hour; 
parsnips, one hour; string beans, three hours; carrots, two 
hours; squash, one hour; beets, four hours; asparagus, 
twenty minutes; shelled beans, one hour; cabbage, two 
hours; onions, one hour; turnips, one and one-half hours; 
potatoes, one-half hour. 

Macaroni with Tomatoes.— Boil one pound of macaroni 
in milk until tender (but not enough to break). Have ready 
one can of tomatoes hot, in which put one teaspoon of but- 
ter, a little salt, and red pepper. Take the macaroni while 
hot, pour in a deep dish, sprinkle grated cheese thickly over 
it, then turn the tomatoes over the cheese in the same dish. 



30 Vegetables. 

You will find this a delightful dish to be eaten with crack- 
ers.— Miss Lula Belle Hemphill. 

Green Corn Pudding 1 .— Six ears of corn grated, one quart 
sweet milk, six eggs, one cup white sugar, one teaspoon 
lemon essence. Cream butter, sugar and yolk of eggs to- 
gether; add milk, corn and essence. Last add the beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Serve 
hot. — MissSallie Elkin, Lancaster, Ky. 

Potato Puffs.— Boil and mash fine three Irish potatoes 
while warm ; add one large tablespoon of lard, a coffee cup 
of sweet milk, in which dissolve half a cake of compressed 
yeast; mix in enough flour to make a soft dough; set to rise 
in a bowl well greased, and let stand until quite light; then 
sprinkle out about an inch thick, cut with a small biscuit- 
cutter, place them a little apart in the pan; let them rise 
again, then light bake in a quick oven.— Mrs. Judge James 
Jackson, Atlanta. 

Parisian Stuffed Mushrooms.— If the mushrooms have 
not been cooked or canned, remove the stems, peel the cup, 
put in water and vinegar to soak. Boil stems in w T ater and 
lemon juice, mash with small herbs and chicken, veal or pork. 
Put some bread crumbs in sweet milk, let soak, then squeeze 
out the milk and mix the bread w r ith the hashed meat. Stuff 
the mushrooms with this mixture and serve with cream but- 
ter sauce —Mrs. Win. M. Dickson, Atlanta. 

Spaghetti. — One large onion sliced very thin, two small 
pieces of garlic cut very fine, two tablespoons flour, four of 
olive oil. Fry a light brown. Add gradually one large cup of 
stock, one quart can of tomatoes, a little parsley chopped fine, 



Vegetables. 31 

a little nutmeg, three whole cloves, salt and pepper, and one 
can of French mushrooms. Put in the entire contents of the 
can of mushrooms and cook three-fourths of an hour. Put 
spaghetti in boiling water, boil gently until tender. In three- 
fourths of an hour drain perfectly dry. Grate some cheese, 
which sprinkle on a platter, then a little sauce on the cheese, 
then the spaghetti. Alternate until you have used it all. — 
Mrs. E. H. Roberts, Atlanta. 

Candied Potatoes. — Boil your sweet potatoes, then slice 
and put in layers in your baking pan. Add sugar, butter 
and seasoning to taste, and pour on a half cupful of boiling 
water before you place in the oven to brown. — Mrs. W. H. 
Felton, Cartersville, Ga. 

Broiled Tomatoes.— Select large, smooth, ripe tomatoes; 
slice without peeling. Have the griddle hot and broil for a 
few minutes, turning once. Place on a heated dish, and 
sprinkle a little sugar and salt on each piece and pour over a 
small quantity of melted butter. Serve immediately with 
slices of crisp toast.— Mrs. A. J. West, Atlanta. 

Tomato Jelly.— Strain in the juice of two cans of toma- 
toes. Dissolve one-half box gelatine in hot water; when cool 
pour in the juice of the tomatoes, seasoning with pepper 
and salt to taste. Pour in mold to stiffen. When firm turn 
out on a lettuce leaf and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 
The mold should be about the size of a cup and have just 
enough in it to look like half of a tomato. — Miss A. F. 
Jenckes, Atlanta. 

Macaroni. — Beef round four pounds, suet one-half pound, 
onions one quart, tomatoes one-half can or one quart, but- 
ter (if desired) one-half pound, wine (if desired) small glass 



32 Vegetables. 

sherry (or goblet of claret), parmassone cheese one-half 
pound. Break suet in small pieces and put in large kettle; 
slice onions and fry brown, add butter. Take meat 
(which should be well skewered), and place in mixture, turn- 
ing over and about till well browned. Add tomatoes, cover 
close and simmer slowly eight hours ; remove meat and 
strain gravy through colander. Add wine. Boil two and 
one-half pounds smallest macaroni twenty minutes in 
plenty of salt water, strain through colander. Place in 
tureen, sprinkle with grated cheese, pour gravy over and 
mix well.— Mrs. E. A. Angier, Atlanta. 

Potato Souffles.— Boil four good-sized potatoes, mash 
and pass through a sieve. Scald in a clean saucepan half 
teacup sweet milk and tablespoon of butter; add to the 
potato with a little salt and white pepper, and beat to a 
cream. Add one at a time the yolks of four eggs, beating 
thoroughly, drop a pinch of salt into the whites an d beat 
them to a stiff froth. Add them to the mixture, beating as 
little as possible. Have ready a buttered baking dish large 
enough to let the souffle rise without running over; bake 
twenty minutes in a brisk oven. Serve at once in the dish it 
was baked in. It should be eaten with meats that have 
gravies. — Mrs. Wm. T. Wilson, Murfreesboro, Tenn. 

Potato Souffles.— Bake the potatoes till done, then cut 
a piece off large enough to allow the inside scooped out ; 
mix with a large piece of butter, cream, pepper, and salt. 
To every two potatoes one egg will be required. Mix the 
yolks well with the potatoes, whip the whites to a strong 
froth, and lightly stir in, then fill the skins, put them into 
the oven and bake a light brown. If properly made they 



Salads. 83 

are extremely light, and are always liked. — Mrs. M. J. 
Speer, Atlanta. 

Vol au Vent of Asparagus.— Make a puff paste with y 2 
pound butter, 1 pound of flour, proceeding as usual; keep 
the pastry very cool always. Roll out an inch in thickness. 
May be made any shape. Cut around the pastry with a 
sharp knife wet in hot water, trace a small oval on the 
pastry an inch and a half from the edge and bake the vol au 
vent about thirty minutes in a hot oven. Should be a deli- 
cate brown. Have your asparagus stewed and seasoned 
with butter, cream, pepper and salt, and fill while hot. 
Serve with a cream sauce immediately. — Mrs. Joseph 
Thompson, Atlanta. 



SALADS. 

Columbian Salad Cream.— One-half pint thick sweet cream, 
2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon of vinegar, 1 lemon, 3 table- 
spoons Durkee's salad dressing, 1 pinch sugar, dry mustard 
and red pepper, each the size of an English pea, salt to taste, 
making the mixture when finished a little more salt than 
yon would think necessary, so as to prevent having to use 
extra salt on all of the different articles dressed with the 
cream. This quantity is sufficient for five people. Make 
in a soup plate with wooden or silver spoon, rub smooth, 
and gradually moisten into a paste, with a few drops of 
the cream, the mustard, pepper and sugar; then add the 
Durkee's salad dressing, thoroughly mLxing it all. To this 
add the yolks of the eggs which have been in another plate, 
rubbed perfectly smooth, removing any small pieces which 



34 Salads, 

cannot be mashed. Now, add the cream, stirring as little 
as can be to mix it in, being careful to move the spoon 
backward and forward, then crossways from each side, be- 
cause a constant movement around one way has a ten- 
dency to cause cream to go to butter. Stir in the vinegar, 
then the strained lemon juice, and lastly the salt. Now 
slice the whites of the eggs into rings and drop in, and put 
the mixture on i:e till wanted. This cream is a delightful 
adjunct to a picnic dinner, and is invaluable to a house- 
keeper because of its varied uses. For chicken salad, prepare 
your meat, add to it cut up celery and the heart of headed 
up lettuce, and put in the refrigerator; just before serving, 
toss the meat up with enough of the cream, and serve in 
lettuce leaves. With tomatoes, slice carefully of uniform 
thickness on a towel, place when drained, with a silver knife 
on a platter, and set directly on ice when wanted; serve in 
small sauce plates, with the cream put in before the toma- 
toes are put in. For sardines, on a long platter make cra- 
dles of two curled lettuce leaves, lay three sardines that have 
been rinsed off with vinegar in each cradle, pour over them 
some of the cream, and on the center of each put a thin slice 
of hard-boiled egg, just before serving. Canned turkey and 
fresh or pickled shrimp make a fine salad by adding to them 
a few chopped hard-boiled eggs, some lettuce heart and 
shredded celery, dressing with the cream, and setting on ice 
till wanted. The Columbian cream is a perfect dressing for 
chilled lettuce, and delightful lettuce sandwiches are made by 
dipping the leaves, which have been made brittle by contact 
with ice, in the thick cream, and placing between thin freshly 
cut home-made light bread ; and lastly, in the absence of 



S.alads. 35 

anything to dress with it, it has been pronounced "good 
enough" simply spread on home-made light bread. — Mrs. 
Richard Grubb, Darien, Mcintosh County, Ga. 

Stuffed Peppers.— Gather large bell peppers, open them 
at the sides, leaving the stems, but taking out all the seeds. 
Soak them in ice water two or three hours. Take a quart 
of shrimps, chop them up fine with bread crumbs, a table- 
spoon of butter, a cup of sweet milk ; stuff the peppers 
with this mixture, then put in a pan and cook slowly.— 
Mrs. Robert Rutherford, Houston, Tex. 

French Mayonnaise.— The yolks of 6 raw eggs— beat very 
light and add very slowly (drop by drop) a goblet of best 
olive oil, beat until it becomes as thick as mush; boil 6 
eggs, mash the yolks and mix with a teacup of weak vine- 
gar, an even tablespoon of mustard salt, one of red pepper, 
one of sugar, one of salt; mix all well together. Put on 
fire a clean skillet, melt a piece of butter size of walnut, 
pour into the pan all of the above (both raw and cooked 
tgg mixture), and stirring carefully, let it come to a brisk 
boil, and thicken slightly. Remove and place in glass jar. 
—Mrs. H. C. White, Athens, Ga. 

Chicken Salad Dressing.— Four eggs boiled hard, mash 
yolks fine, two teaspoons of mustard, a pinch of red pepper, a 
little piece of butter, 2 tablespoons of sweet oil; then stir. 
Mix 2 tablespoons of vinegar, last 2 spoons of cream; if sour 
just as good. Put in a cool place to get thicker. — Mrs. G. 
W. L. Powell, Atlanta. 

Salad Dressing". — A most delicious salad dressing for let- 
tuce and tomatoes. — 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons of Durkee's 
salad dressing, 1 teaspoon of salt, 2 teaspoons of sugar, V2 



36 Salads. 

glass of thick cream. Boil the eggs hard ; take yolks and 
rub with 1 tablespoon of the Durkee's dressing until it is 
perfectly smooth, then add the salt, sugar, black pepper and 
the whites of the eggs finely chopped or mashed, then add 
the other tablespoon of Durkee's salad dressing, and lastly, 
the Y2 glass of cream.— Mrs. W. R. Hammond, Atlanta. 

Salad in Jelly. — First make the plain lemon jelly, not 
using quite the amount of sugar. Fill bottom of salad 
dish with a little of the jelly, and set on ice. When hard, 
set in the salad dish, on top of the jelly, a bowl large 
enough to hold the desired amount of salad, and fill bowl 
with ice; pour jelly around until almost reaching the top of 
bowl. When the jelly is hard remove ice from the bowl and 
fill with warm water for a moment only ; then remove 
bowl from jelly, being careful not to break the jelly. Make 
any of the ordinary salads, such as chicken, veal, lobster, 
shrimp, or nice red tomatoes sliced with a little green, as 
celery, lettuce, etc., mixed through, here and there. Place 
salad in the space leftin the jelly, and cover salad with re- 
maining jelly. After it has become a little hard, set aside 
in ice box. When wanted set dish in warm water a mo- 
ment and turn salad on a platter. Have a mayonnaise 
dressing ready to serve with salad. Remember in making 
this salad the bottom of dish will be the top, when turned 
out. — Adeline Miller, Atlanta. 

Dressing for Meat or Fish Salads.— Beat the yolks of 4 
eggs with 3 tablespoons of olive oil, thoroughly, then add 
8 tablespoons of vinegar, 2 of French mustard, butter the 
size of a small egg, 2 teaspoons salt, 1 of ground pepper, 1 
of sugar, 2 of celery seed. Put all of these ingredients in a 













■■;.; 

rterMEd 


jf^mfm 





MRS. WILLIAM A. HEMPHILL, 

Chairman Committee on Professional Work of Women. 



Salads. 37 

double vessel and cook like custard. When it begins to 
thicken, stir in the whites of the 4 eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. When cold and just before pouring over salad, add 
V2 teacup thick cream. Of course, if it is celery salad, or 
the celery stalk is used, omit the celery seed. — Mrs. Chas. 
A. Collier, Atlanta. 

Mayonnaise Dressing".— To the yolk of 1 egg, add V* of 
a teaspoon of mustard and V2 teaspoon of salt. Stir with 
a fork till thoroughly mixed. Add a few drops of olive oil, 
and stir till it is all worked in, before adding more oil ; con- 
tinue to add oil, a little at a time; when it becomes too 
thick to mix easily, stir in a little vinegar, and proceed as 
before. The quantity of oil added may be gradually in- 
creased. If too much is added at a time, the mixture will 
look thin and curdle. If this occurs put the plate on the 
fire, and stir hard; if this does not " bring" back the only 
way is to begin again with fresh ingredients and after it is 
well started, stir in the old. Have the eggs and oil cold 
and with a little care it will not curdle. 1 egg will absorb 
about Y2 pint of oil. When finished the dressing should be 
the color of boiled custard and much thicker. Be careful to 
keep in a cool place until ready to use.— Mrs. James O'Neill, 
Atlanta. 

Tomato Salad (Cone Shaped). — Five crisp, curly lettuce 
leaves for the base. Then 3 slices of tomato, with a small 
lettuce leaf filled with mayonnaise dressing for the apex. 
This arranged on a small plate makes a very attractive ap- 
pearance on the table and is very appetizing besides. — Mrs. 
S. K. Linscott, Holton, Kansas. 



38 Salads. 

Slaw. — To 1 beaten egg add 2 tablespoons of sugar, a 
level teaspoon of flour, a heaping one of mustard, a table- 
spoon of butter and a cup of vinegar. Put into a stew pan, 
and when hot, add 1 quart of finely-shredded cabbage, with a 
little salt sprinkled over it. Stew 5 minutes. To be eaten 
hot or cold.— Mrs. J. P. Thornton, LaGrange, Ga. 

Asparagus Salad. — Peel the tops of 1 quart of asparagus, 
and boil in salt and water until thoroughly done. Put on 
ice until ready for use. Mix 3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 1 
of vinegar, *4 teaspoon of salt, one-tenth of pepper, and 
pour over asparagus just before serving. Garnish dish 
with curled parsley.— Mrs. Mary W. Johnson, Atlanta. 

Shrimp Peppers. — Pick your shrimp after being boiled 
with salt. Two or three large spoons of pounded crackers 
or stale bread crumbs, a large spoon of butter, pepper, 
black and red, and a little nutmeg. Mix well together. 
Core as many bell peppers as your mixture will fill, wetting 
them well with juice squeezed from the heads of the shrimp, 
and wine. If your shrimp is not fresh boiled, or you use 
canned shrimp, you must use more butter and wine or they 
will be too dry. Just bake enough to thoroughly heat 
through.— Mrs. J. Gadsden King, Atlanta. 

Creamy Omelet.— Beat the yolks of four eggs, just a lit- 
tle, with a silver spoon ; for each egg add a tablespoon of 
cream; season lightly with salt and pepper; stir in the 
whites of the eggs, beaten less than for cake. Have the 
omelet pan clean, smooth and hot. Put in a generous 
tablespoon of butter, and just as soon as it melts (be care- 
ful not to scorch it), turn in the mixture and at once begin 
to shake the pan with regular motion. While the top is 



Bread. 39 

still s^ r t and creamy set the pan in the baker (which should 
be hotj and remove when the omelet is golden brown. Roll 
out into a hot platter and serve at once. Garnish with 
parsley sprigs. — Mrs. Callie Lumpkin King, Marion, Ala. 

Cheese Omelet.— One teacup of mush, 1 heaping cup of 
grated cheese, lump of butter the size of an egg, 6 or 8 eggs 
beaten separately, whites whipped to a stiff froth. Put 
the butter into the hot mush, then add cheese and mush to 
the yolks after being well beaten. Stir in the whites last. 
Bake quickly. Do not allow it to stand after baking.— 
Mrs. Sue B. Hudson, Columbus, Miss. 



BREAD. 

Economy is not stinginess, as so many people seem to 
think ; but it is the art of utilizing all the scraps, odds and 
ends, and of buying what is needed and nothing more. One 
writer tells us that a " crust saved is a crust earned," and 
it should be printed on every bread jar. 

Waffles. — One and one-half pints of buttermilk, Vz teacup 
corn meal, 1 teaspoon soda , IY2 teaspoon of salt, 3 eggs beaten 
separately, butter the size of an egg, flour enough to make a 
thin batter; cream butter and add salt, corn meal, milk, 
and flour. Beat well ; then stir in lightly the yolks and 
whites. Just before baking, stir in the soda, dissolved in a 
tablespoon of warm water. — Mrs. Hugh T. Inman, Atlanta. 

Cream Puffing.— One cup meal, W2 cup cooked hominy, 1 
cup milk, V2 cup boiling water, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 heap- 
ing teaspoon yeast powder, 3 eggs. Put into a bowl the 
butter, salt, meal, hominy and milk; mash fine and after 
beating a few minutes, stir in hot water; then add eggs 



40 Bread. 

and yeast powdet and beat well. Bake in shallow pans. — 
Airs. John W. Grant, Atlanta. 

Cheese Sticks. — One pound flour, % pound butter, 1 cup 
cheese, % teaspoon red pepper, 1 teaspoon salt. Cut the 
cheese into very thin slices, put into the flour with the salt 
and pepper, and chop with a knife until well mixed. Add 
enough cold water to make a rather stiff dough. Wash 
the butter and roll into the flour, making a smooth paste. 
Put on ice till very cold, roll very thin and cut in strips 
about 4 inches long and V2 inch wide. —Mrs. W. G. Raoul, 
Atlanta. 

Tea Bread. — Three eggs beaten separately, 1 full pint of 
flour, 1 teacup of sweet milk, 1 teaspoon of Royal baking 
powder mixed in flour, 2 teaspoons of sugar, 1 tablespoon 
of butter. Melt butter and mix with sugar and milk, then 
stir in the flour and eggs. Bake in a hot oven.— Mrs. P. F. 
Williams, LaGrange, Ga. 

Tomato Toast.— Put some canned tomatoes in a frying 
pan with a little butter and salt; cook lightly, strain, then 
pour over slices of buttered toast which have been softened 
with a little cream.— Mrs. W. C. Glenn, Atlanta. 

Graham Flour Gems.— One egg, 1 pint of sweet milk, 1 pint 
of Graham flour. Beat the eggs thoroughly and mix with 
the milk. Beat this gradually, adding the flour in a half 
hour. Pinch of salt. Have well-buttered pans piping hot. 
Fill pans even full of batter and put in a hot oven. Bake 
quick.— Mrs. Preston Miller, Atlanta. 

Tea Muffins.— Two eggs well beaten, 1 teacup lightly filled 
with flour, 1 dessert spoon of yeast powder, 1 teaspoon of 



Bread. 41 

sugar, a pinch of salt. Sift this into the egga, 1 tablespoon 
of condensed milk in V2 cup of water. Mix into the flour 1 
teaspoon of melted butter. Do not have the batter too stiff, 
pour in muffin pans very hot and well greased. Bake in a 
quick oven. The amount will make 8 or 10 muffins.— Mrs. 
Augusta Moore, Atlanta. 

Dixie Waffles.— One pint buttermilk, 1 pint of flour, 1 egg, 
i/2 cup melted lard, salt to taste. Break the egg into a bowl, 
beat very light with egg-whip, stir in the melted lard, then 
add the flour and milk alternately, beat thoroughly. Add 
cold water until a thin batter ; now sift in 1 teaspoon of 
soda, and bake quickly in hot waffle irons, well greased the 
first time, not necessary afterwards.— Mrs. Alex. M. Wal- 
lace, Atlanta. 

Nasturtium Sandwiches.— Cut some white or brown 
bread very thin, and spread with the most delicate fresh 
butter. Then pick some nasturtiums, choosing the young- 
est and most perfect in form and color. Separate the 
petals, lay them between 2 pieces of the wafered bread and 
butter, and add a sprinkling of salt and white pepper. The 
crimson petals should peep out between the edges of the 
bread.— Mrs. Dallas Albert, Pittsburg, Pa. 

Non de Scripts.— Mix 1 pint of flour with the yolks of 6 
eggs and a pinch of salt ; work until the dough is perfectly 
smooth, roll out as thin as a wafer, and cut into 3-inch 
squares. Fold these squares together and slash up for 2 
inches, then drop into boiling lard. They fry into all sorts 
of shapes and make a beautiful dish. Pile them on a plat- 
ter or cake basket and sprinkle powdered sugar over them. 
—Mrs. A. W. Calhoun, Atlanta. 



42 Bread. 

Scotch Scones. — One quart flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, ^tea- 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, large tablespoon 
lard, 2 eggs, 1 pint sweet milk. Sift together flour, sugar, 
salt and yeast powders ; rub the lard in cold ; add a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, then add egg and milk. Mix 
m smooth dough to handle. Flour the board, turn out the 
dough, give it 1 or 2 quick kneadings to complete smooth- 
ness, roll it out an eighth of an inch in thickness, cut it 
squares not larger than a soda cracker, fold in half to form 
three-cornered pieces. Bake on hot griddle eight or ten min- 
utes.— Mrs. S. A. Ferrell, La Grange, Ga. 

Cheese Fonder.— One cup of bread crumbs, 1 cup of grated 
cheese, 1 cup of sweet milk, flour, eggs beaten separately. 
Bake in a baking dish twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 
— Miss Lillie Orme, Atlanta. 

Lunch Bread.— Six eggs beaten separately, 4 tablespoons of 
butter stirred into the sugar, 1 pint of flour, 2 teaspoons of 
3'east powder sifted in it, 1 gill of milk. Bake in a quick 
oven. Eat hot with butter.— Mrs. Wra. Rushton, Atlanta. 

Sally Lunn.— Seven teacups of flour, 1 cup of new milk, 3 
eggs beaten separately, 1 cup of yeast, 1 large tablespoon of 
sugar, 2 teaspoons salt, V2 cup butter. Make a soft dough. 
When well risen knead and make into two pieces like large 
biscuit, put into two round or square pans, leaving room 
to rise well. When light bake until well done. Split and 
butter, turning the inner side up.— Mrs. Hildreth Smith, 
Atlanta. 

Muffins.— Two cups flour, 2tablespoons lard, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, V2 tablespoon salt, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 1 cup sweet milk. Beat the sugar and butter together. 



Bread. 43 

Add to this the whites and yolks of eggs, beaten separately, 
until light; sift the flour, salt, and baking powder to- 
gether; pour in on the mixture of sugar, butter and eggs. 
Mix very lightly, but do not stir. Add to the milk, mix in 
lightly, pour in greased muffin pans, bake about fifteen min- 
utes. The delicacy of this muffin depends up on its lightness. 
— Mrs. Edward Herbert Barnes, Atlanta. 

Zephyr Wafers.— One cup of flour, 1 cup of sweet milk, but- 
ter size of small egg, salt to suit taste. The batter must be 
smooth, and must be baked in zephyr wafer molds. — Mrs. 
J. G. Truitt, LaGrauge, Ga. 

Yeast Muffins.— One pint flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 egg, Y<l yeast cake. Beat egg, sugar, and 
butter together; add flour gradually until it makes a stiff 
batter. Just before putting in muffin rings, stir in 1 tea- 
spoon of soda. When made up about 5 p. m., will be ready 
for tea. Bake in a hot oven. — Mrs. F. M. Farley, Atlanta. 

Split Rolls. — One quart of flour, 1 egg beaten with a table- 
spoon even full of sugar ; dissolve V2 cake of compressed 
yeast in a tumbler of warm water, stir well and pour it to 
the egg; sift the flour into a tray. Rub 1 tablespoon of 
lard or butter into the flour; mix and work until the dough 
is smooth. Set in a warm place to rise. When light, work 
over, and roll about half inch thick, butter the top evenly, 
fold together and cut with ordinary biscuit cutter; place in 
buttered pan to rise half hour. Place them in pan so as not 
to touch each other. Bake quickly and serve hot.— Mrs. 
James R. DuBose, Asheville, N. C. 

Sally Lunn. — Two eggs, 1 teacup of lukewarm milk, butter 
size of a hen's egg, teaspoon of salt, 2 teaspoons of sugar, 



44 Bread. 

1 dessert spoon of potato yeast, heaping pint flour. Beat 
the eggs separately; stir the sugar well into the yolks; add 
the whites, then the milk, the butter melted and cooled, the 
yeast and flour. Set this to rise, in winter, at 10 o'clock 
for 7 o'clock tea. At 4 o'clock, put in a cake mold for a 
second rising. No additional flour is needed then. It 
should be a batter at first that will drop from your spoon 
about as hominy would. This baked as muffins is excel- 
lent. They require less time for a second rising. — Mrs. W. 
T. Newman, Atlanta. 

Corn Bread.— Take about 2 teacups of hominy, and while 
hot mix with it 1 very large spoon of butter; beat 4 eggs 
very light, and stir them into the hominy; next add about 
1 pint of milk, gradually stirred in, and lastly 1 pint of corn 
meal. The batter should be of the consistency of a rich 
boiled custard; if thicker, add a little more milk. Bake 
with a good deal of heat at the bottom of the oven, so as 
to allow it to rise. The pan in which it is baked ought to 
be a deep one, to allow space for rising. It has the appear- 
ance, when cooked, of a baked batter pudding, and when 
rich and well mixed, it has almost the delicacy of a baked 
custard. — Mrs. A. V. Heard, LaGrange, Ga. 

Bops. — One pint of rice flour, 3 eggs, 1 spoon of butter, and 
V2 pint of milk. Mix and beat well, and bake like cake. It 
is a delightful breakfast bread .—Miss M. P. Green, Atlanta. 

Rice Cakes.— 6 eggs, 1 cup boiled rice, 1 pint sweet milk, 1 
cup cold water, salt, flour to make a batter, 1 teaspoon of 
3'east powder.— Mrs. J. W. Fears, Atlanta. 

Boston Corn Cakes.— Two cups of meal, lof flour, % of a 
cup of sugar, 2 eggs, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking pow- 




MRS. HUGH HAGAN, 
Chairman Committee on Ways and Means. 



Bread. 45 

der, 2Y2 cups of milk, and a little salt. Bake in gem pans. 
—Mrs. Edward E. Sanger, Atlanta. 

Sally Lunn.— Three eggs beaten well together, % of a teacup 
of sugar, % of a teacup of melted butter, flour to make 
real stiff batter, some thicker than cake batter, 4 table- 
spoons of sweet milk, IY2 spoons of baking powder 
(heaped). Bake in a slow oven. It does not take long to 
bake. Try it with a straw. Grease the pan well.— Miss 
Jennie Inman, Atlanta. 

My Premium Crackers.— Two pints sifted flour, 1 table- 
spoon of lard, rubbed well together; make into a very stiff 
dough, with 1 teacup of cold water, in which has been dis- 
solved 1 teaspoon of salt. Beat until smooth and divide 
into four equal parts ; roll each piece until twelve inches 
square, cut into three-inch squares, stick with a fork ; line 
the bottom of a pan with white paper, greased slightly. 
Put in the crackers and bake three or four minutes in a 
quick oven. — Miss Annie Dennis, Talbotton, Ga. 

Sally Lunn.— Mix together 1 pint of sifted flour, 2 tea- 
spoons of Royal baking powder, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 
Y2 teaspoon of salt. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs ; add to them 
V2 cup of sweet milk, measure scant V2 cup of butter. Put 
the two mixtures together, and lightly beating them with 
spoon, add the whites of the eggs beaten to stiff froth. 
Bake in hot oven twenty minutes. — Mrs. John W. Hurt, 
Atlanta. 

Corn Meal Cakes.— One teacup sweet milk, 1 egg, 3 table- 
spoons of meal, and a little salt. The batter should be the 
consistency of cream. Bake on a very hot griddle. — Mrs. 
Maria Cole, Inman Park. 



46 Bread. 

Sally Lunn.— One quart flour, 1 egg, 1 yeast cake, lard 
size of small hen egg, dessert spoon of sugar. Beat the 
yolks of eggs with the sugar and lard ; dissolve the yeast 
cake in y 2 teacup of tepid water and add; then the sifted 
flour and 1 teaspoon of salt, and make a very stiff batter 
with a little lukewarm boiled milk. Set by the fire to rise. 
In three or four hours, work and make out in a pan, one layer 
at the bottom, greased with a little lard, and the other layer 
on top of that. Set to rise and then bake.— Mrs. A. H. 
Colquitt, Edgewood, Ga. 

Beaten Biscuit.— One pound of flour, 4 ounces of lard, y 2 
teacup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoons of salt. If too stiff, add 
a little cold water. Beat until the dough is soft and blis- 
ters. Stick and cook.— Mrs. Bishop Paine, Aberdeen, Miss. 

Gate City Corn Bread.— One and a half large cups corn 
meal, 3 large cups flour, V2 large cup butter, 1 large cup 
sugar, 1 pint milk, 2y 2 teaspoons baking powder.— Mrs. 
Charlie Tift, Albany, Ga. 

Light Bread.— Boil 1 quart of morning's milk, remove 
from the fire and stir until lukewarm, add 1 tablespoon of 
fine salt and 2 tablespoons of sugar. Then add flour 
enough to make stiff batter. Put in a warm place until it 
rises. Add flour enough to make into a stiff dough. Let it 
rise again and bake brown.— Mrs. D. S. Porter, Flowery 
Branch, Ga. 

Rice Bread.— Boil 1 pint of rice till soft, then mix it with 
1 quart rice or wheat flour. When cool add y 2 teacup of 
yeast, a little salt, and milk enough to make it of the 
consistency of light bread. Knead lightly.— Mrs. Abbie R. 
Hopkins, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 



CAKE. 

General Hints.— The whites of eggs beat stiffer and much 
quicker when quite cool; therefore keep them on the ice 
until wanted for use. The nature of salt is cooling and all 
cakes that are composed largely of the whites of eggs 
should have a good pinch of salt added before beating. Do 
not mix up a cake in a bowl that has just come out of hot 
water; cool it with cold water. It will save you work in 
the end. The fresher the eggs the better the result in cake 
making. Stir butter and sugar to a cream. It will repay 
you to always use fresh butter. When fruit is used sprin- 
kle with flour. Sift baking powder in the flour. Always 
dissolve your soda in milk. Beat whites and yolks sepa- 
rately. Try the recipes as they are first. 

Dolly Varden Cake. — Four eggs, 2 cups white sugar, V2 cup 
butter. Beat hard half an hour, then add 3 cups 
flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons of baking powder. 
Beat well together. Take out half the quantity, and add 
to it 1 cup of raisins, V2 cup of currants, V2 nutmeg, 2 tea- 
spoons cinnamon, 2 of cloves. Bake the light and dark in 
separate pans 1 inch thick. Put icing between and pile 
them up.— Mrs. Benjamin F. Abbott, Atlanta. 

Green Fruit Cake.— Take the whites of 15 eggs, 1 pound 
flour, 1 pound sugar, % pound butter, 3 teaspoons cream 
tartar, 1 teaspoon of soda, 1 tablespoon sweet milk, ex- 
tract lemon. Sift cream tartar in flour; cream butter and 
flour well together. Beat whites of eggs and sugar to- 
gether. Mix gradually so there will be no lumps. Add 
soda just before baking. Bake into one large cake. When 
thoroughly cold slice into six layers, spreading between 
icing, grated cocoanut, bananas sliced, Malaga grapes cut 
thin, pineapple. Ice on the outside, and while damp cover 



48 Cake. 

over with cocoanut; trim with grapes and bananas.— Miss 
Annie Ligon, Columbus, Ga. 

White Fruit Cake.— Sugar 1 pound, butter % pound, eggs 
whites of 16, cocoanuts 2 large, almonds 1 pound, citron 2 
pounds. Flour the fruit well so that it will not settle to 
the bottom of cake. — Mrs. M. A. Abrahams, LaGrange, Ga. 

Black Fruit Cake.— One pound butter, 1 pound flour, 1 
pound dark brown sugar, 2 eggs, 3 pounds seedless raisins, 
1 pound currants, 1 pound citron, 1 ounce ground cinnamon, 
1 ounce of spice, 1 ounce of cloves, 1 tumbler of wine, 
1 tumbler of whisky, *4 pound of dried figs. — Mrs. A. L. 
Hull, Athens, Ga. 

Superior Sponge Cake.— Beat thoroughly the yolks of 6 
eggs with 2 tablespoons of cold water ; add slowly 2 cups 
of sugar, beating with egg-whip until frothy and white ; 
then stir in the beaten whites of 6 eggs, 3 cups of sifted 
flour ; lastly 2 teaspoons of baking powder dissolved in y$ 
cup of cold water. Flavor with lemon. — Mrs. John L. 
Cowles, Athens, Ga. 

Tea Cakes.— Two pounds flour, 1 pound sugar, V2 pound 
of butter, V2 cup milk, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 of cream tar- 
tar, 6 eggs. Knead the dough very soft. — Miss Jennie 
English, Atlanta. 

Silver Cake.— Whites of 7 eggs, 1 cup butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Cream butter and sugar, add the milk; then 
alternate with the flour and beaten whites of eggs. Sift 
the powder in the flour previous to mixing. Lemon Cheese 
Filling for Cake: Yolks of 3 eggs, juice and grated rind of 



Cake. 49 

2 lemons, V^ pound of butter, Vq, pound of sugar. Put on 
fire and stir till cooked rather stiff, then stir in whites, 
beaten to a stiff froth; boil a few minutes, then take off 
and stir till cool. Use any cake batter preferred. — Mrs. W. 
C. King, Atlanta. 

Black Fruit Cake,— Twelve eggs, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound 
flour, 1 pound of butter, 1 cup molasses, 1 tumbler of 
brandy, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon of nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, cloves, 1 teaspoon of allspice, 2 pounds raisins, 2 
pounds currants, 1 pound citron, V^ pound almonds, a few 
dates and figs; about 3 figs and Y2 dozen dates. If you 
prefer, you can use more raisins and less currants. Flour 
the fruit well by using half the flour and about 1 ounce 
more. I brown half of my flour to make it black. Stir the 
soda in the molasses. Mix as you would in pound cake 
batter.— Mrs. Thomas Clarke, Atlanta. 

Cake with Apple Filling".— Three eggs well beaten, 3 cups 
flour sifted with 2 teaspoons of baking powder, l^eups of 
white sugar, 1^ cups butter, V2 cup of sweet milk. Filling: 

3 apples, % cup of sugar, 1 Qgg well beaten, juice and 
rind of 1 lemon. Mix all and stir constantly while cook- 
ing; then cool and place between layers of cake.— Mrs. 
Bulow Campbell, Atlanta. 

Boiled Sugar Sponge Cake.— One pound sugar, Y2 pound 
flour, 7 eggs, 1 tablespoon vanilla. Boil the sugar in 5 ta- 
blespoons of water for a few minutes. Beat the eggs sep- 
arately. Sift the flour twice, first warming it slightly. 
Stir the mixture gently, adding the flour last. Bake twenty 
minutes.— Mrs. S. T. Davis, Federalsburg, Md. 



50 Cake. 

Tutti Fputti Cake.— Whites of 8 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 of 
butter, 3 full cups of flour, 1 of sweet milk, 3 teaspoons of 
baking powder. Bake in layers. Filling: Take Vi pound 
cf crystallized cherries, pineapple, English walnuts, any 
kind of fruit liked can be added. Cut fruit fine and put be- 
tween layers after they are iced. Put English walnuts in 
halves all over top.— Mrs. J. D. Moreland, La Grange, Ga. 

Naples Drop Biscuit. — To 6 eggs well beaten add 1 pound 
of sugar, beat thoroughly, then stir in 1 pound of flour 
lightly, and flavor with lemon. Drop on buttered tins. — 
Mrs. Kate W. Cannon, Neosho, Mo. 

Jam Cake.— (One of my favorite recipes.) Yolks of 8 
eggs, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 1 cup jam, 
1 cup wine, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon each of cloves, cinnamon, and mace. Sift baking 
powder in flour, beat eggs and sugar together until light, 
add butter well creamed, then the flour, spices, jam, and 
lastly the wine. Bake in layer pans, put together with icing. 
A fine substitute for fruit cake.— Mrs. N. P. Black, Atlanta. 

Velvet Cake.— Take 1 cup of butter and 3 cups of sugar, 
cream until very light ; then break 1 egg at a time and beat 
well until you have added 6 eggs. Add 3 cups of flour. 
Lastly add 1 teaspoon of soda dissolved in buttermilk. 
Flavor with vanilla.— Mrs. A. E. Grambling, Atlanta. 

Chocolate Cake.— (Excellent.) For the Chocolate: y 2 cake 
of Baker's chocolate (grated), 1 cup of white sugar, y 2 cup 
of sweet milk, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mix well and boil until 
the sugar and chocolate are melted. Then set to cool and 
add 1 teaspoon of vanilla. For the Batter: 1 cup of 
white sugar, y 2 cup of butter, y 2 cup of sweet milk and the 



Cake. 51 

yolks and whites of 2 eggs beaten separately. 2V 2 cups of 
flour and 1 teaspoon of soda dissolved in milk. Then add 
the boiled chocolate last. Bake in jelly cake pans. Icing : 
2 cups of white sugar, Y2 cup of water, and boil until it 
will harden in water; then stir this into whites of 2 eggs 
beaten stiff, stirring constantly. Flavor with vanilla. — 
Ellice Serena, Pittsburg, Pa. 

Ang*el Food.— Whites of 11 eggs, IY2 cups of granulated 
sugar sifted, 1 cup of flour sifted seven times or more, 1 
level teaspoon of cream tartar sifted with flour the last 
time. 2 teaspoons vanilla, a pinch of salt. Do not grease 
tins. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the sugar and 
beat five minutes with the Dover egg-beater; then take 
your spoon. Beat in the vanilla, salt, and flour last of all. 
Beat as little as possible, after adding flour. Pour in pan 
and bake in moderate oven one hour or until it leaves side 
of pan. Do not allow it to be jarred or shaken in the oven, 
or open the door for the first fifteen minutes, as much of 
the success of this delicious sweet depends upon the baking. 
When done, open the oven door and let it cool off gradu- 
ally. After a few moments, if the pan has a tube, turn it 
upside down upon it, if not, rest it upside down upon two 
even supports. When cold, loosen from the sides of the 
tin with a sharp knife. Cover with boiled icing. — Mrs. 
Thomas H. Morgan, Atlanta. 

White Cake. — Whites of 15 eggs, 1 pound flour, 1 pound 
sugar, % pound butter. Cream butter and flour; beat 
eggs and sugar. After mixing, add 1 teacup of warm 
water and 1 teaspoon of baking powder. Flavor with 
vanilla— Mrs. H. T. Phillips, Atlanta. 



52 Cake. 

Marsh Mallow Cake.— Whites 18 eggs, 2V± cups pulverized 
sugar, l 1 /^ cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 teaspoon 
of vanilla. Beat eggs very light, then cut the sugar in with 
a broad blade carving knife. Sift flour three times with 
cream tartar in it, then cut in the egg and sugar, add 
vanilla. Bake in three layers. Don't grease the pans, put 
paper in bottom, have quick oven. Filling: 2 cups sugar 
boiled with 1 cup of water until syrup ropes. Just before 
taking off fire, add % pound marsh mallows broken in bits 
to melt partially. Pour the mixture gradually over the 
well-beaten whites of 2 eggs. Beat until cold. Put be- 
tween cakes and on top very thick. — Mrs. Albert Cox, 
Atlanta. 

Governor Northen Cake.— Whites of 8 eggs, 1 cup of sweet 
milk, 1 cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup 
of corn starch, 2 tablespoons of Horsford's baking powder 
mixed with flour. Cream the butter and sugar, add the 
milk, flour, and corn starch, then the whites beaten very 
light. Bake in cakes about an inch thick. Icing for Same: 
Whites of 4 eggs beaten very light, 4 cups of sugar. 
Pour 1/2 pint of boiling water on the sugar; boil until clear 
and candy. Pour the boiling sugar over the beaten eggs 
and beat till cold, to a stiff cream. Before it is quite cold 
add 1 teaspoon of cream tartar, 2 teaspoons of vanilla. 
When cold, spread between the cakes as thick as the cake; 
also on top and sides. — Miss Zoe Brown, Sparta, Ga. 

Filled Cake. — Seven heaping tablespoons butter, 6 heaping 
tablespoons of granulated sugar, 3 eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately. Just enough flour to make dough suffi- 
ciently stiff to mold with hands in the pan. Cream the 




J$eS/»*SS H ^ 



MRS. WILLIAM D. GRANT, 

Chairman Committee on Patents and Inventions. 



Cake. 53 

butter and sugar together, then beat in eggs, and lastly stir 
in flour, mixing it just enough to thoroughly incorporate it 
with the other ingredients. The less flour used the richer 
the cakes. Put a layer of dough about one-fourth inch 
thick in bottom of well-buttered square stove pan; then 
spread pineapple marmalade one-fourth inch thick over it, 
and over this another layer of dough of the same thickness. 
Stick the top layer closely with shredded citron and 
blanched almonds. I prefer making my own marmalade, 
as it is nicer than that offered for sale. Bake cake in mod- 
erately hot oven. — Mrs. C. A. Collier, Atlanta. 

Japanese Cake. — One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 
4 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon of yeast powder. Divide 
this in half and bake two layers of plain batter. Into the 
other half put teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and 
spice, and *4 pound of raisins chopped fine, and bake two 
layers of this. Spread between each layer a mixture made 
as follows : Juice and grated rind of 2 lemons, 1 cocoanut, 
2 cups sugar, and 1 cup of boiling water. When this begins 
to boil, add 1 tablespoon of corn starch, and cook till it 
drops in lumps from spoon. — Mrs. Young J. Allen, Shang- 
hai, China. 

Five O'clock Tea Cakes.— Three-fourths pound sugar, % 
pound flour, x /2 goblet of ice water, 7 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
V2 teaspoon baking powder. Bake in 2 square shallow pans in 
a quick oven. Turn them out, put a layer of icing between, 
and with a sharp knife cut them into cubes. This quantity 
makes 3 dozen. Ice them with a firm boiled icing, and 
when cold and dry, tie with narrow ribbons to match the 
color scheme of the entertainment. These cakes are not 



54 Cake, 

only good to eat, but a basket of them adds greatly to the 
beauty of a table.— Mrs. Geo. A. Speer, LaGrange, Ga. 

Ginger Wafers. — Two cups flour, 1 cup brown sugar, lcup 
butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 tablespoon ginger. Roll very 
thin and bake. — Mrs. Wm. Lawson Peel, Atlanta. 

Ginger Cake. — One cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, V/2 cups 
black molasses, 3 cups of flour, 5 eggs, V2 cup ginger, V2 tea- 
spoon soda, i/2 cup sweet milk. — Mrs. Caroline Bleckley, 
Atlanta. 

Chocolate Wafers,— One cup brown sugar, 1 cup of granu- 
lated sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 egg, 1 cup of grated choco- 
late, 1 teaspoon vanilla, enough flour to make stiff (about 
11/2 cups). Roll very thin, cut with square cutter or tin lid. 
Bake quickly. Very nice for afternoon receptions. — Mrs. 
Salouel McKinley Bussey, Atlanta. 

Mother's Jumbles.— Yolks of 12 eggs, 1 pound of sugar, 
Y2 pound of butter, V2 teacup of cream, 1 teaspoon of soda. 
Mix very soft. Roll thin, season with cinnamon and nut- 
meg. Sprinkle sugar over top before baking. A nice way 
to use the yellows after making white cake. — Mrs. R. C. 
Clarke, Atlanta/ 

White Cake.— Four cups of flour, 3 cups of sugar, 1 cup of 
butter, 1 cup of milk, whites of 7 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 
2 teaspoons of cream tartar. For fruit cake, add 1 package 
dessicated cocoanut, 1 pound citron, IV2 pounds almonds, 
mace to taste. — Mrs. Miriam Lumpkin Nichols, Atlanta. 

White Cake.— Cream a heaping tablespoon of butter and 
2 teacups of sugar together. Add alternately 1 cup of 
sweet milk, 4 cups of sifted flour and the whites of 4 eggs, 



Cake. 55- 

well beaten. Lastly, 1 teaspoon of yeast powder.— Mrs. 
Robert A. Hemphill, Atlanta. 

Raisin Cake.— One pound sugar, 1 pound flour, % pound 
butter, 4 eggs, 1 pound raisins (after seeding), lcup butter- 
milk, Y2 teaspoon soda, 1 glass wine. Mix in 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, V2 of cloves, V2 nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether. Beat eggs well, mix all. Bake four hours. — Mrs. 
Columbus A. Pitts, Atlanta. 

Feather Cake.— Two cups sugar, 1 cup milk, V2 cup but- 
ter, 3 of flour, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking powder. 
—Mrs. John M. Billups, Columbus, Miss. 

Almond Cream Cake.— Ten eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, 1^ cups of pulverized sugar, 1 cup of cracker 
dust. Boss lunch biscuit beaten to powder and sifted are 
best. 1 pound of almonds in shell. Hull and beat without 
blanching, not too fine. Mix almonds with cracker dust, 
juice and rind of 1 lemon, 2 teaspoons of vanilla. Beat 
whites well. Beat yolks and sugar together. Add whites, 
then almonds and crackers alternately. Bake in laj^ers and 
spread whipped cream between. To pint of cream whipped 
with a fork until thick like butter, add Y2 cup of sugar, a 
little at a time. This quantity of cream will fill the top 
and layers. Cream must be thick. The almonds must not 
be finer than rice grains. — Mrs. H. A. Tarver, Albany, Ga. 

Brownstone Front. — One and one-half pounds of icing (pul- 
verized sugar) , whites of 6 eggs , 1 teaspoon of vanilla . Make 
icing first and put in a cool place until cake is ready. Do not 
cook, only beat and spread on while cake is hot. Cake: 3 
eggs, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup of sugar, V2 cup of butter, V2 cup 



56 Cake. 

of milk, 2 teaspoons of baking powder. Mix the above 
and add the following ingredients after they are mixed : 7 
squares of Baker's chocolate melted over pan of hot water, 
1 cup of sugar, % cup of milk, yolk of 1 egg. Bake in jelly 
cake pans. The thinner the layers the better the cake. —Mrs. 
Samuel Martin Inman, Atlanta. 

Texas Cake. — Five cups of flour, 3 cups of sugar, 1 cup of 
butter, 1 cup of sweet milk, whites of 1 dozen eggs, 2 tea- 
spoons of cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon of soda. 

Gold Cake. — Yolks of 1 dozen eggs, 4 cups of flour, 2 
•cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of buttermilk, 1 tea- 
spoon of soda, 1 teaspoon of cream of tartar. — Mrs. Nat 
Hammond, Atlanta. 

Jumbles.— One pound butter, 1^2 pounds of sugar, 8 eggs, 
leaving out the whites of 4, 2 pounds of flour, rose water, 
mace or nutmeg. Roll them in grated sugar; bake in a 
quick oven. — Mrs. Colin Frasier, Inman Park. 

Sponge Cake. — Six eggs, leave out whites of 3, 2Y2 cups 
flour, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup boiling water, 1 tablespoon bak- 
ing powder, a pinch of salt, juice 1 green lemon. Beat 
yolks of eggs and sugar until very light ; then add the 
whites of 3 eggs beaten light ; then boiling water ; then the 
flour, warmed and sifted several times, and the baking 
powder sifted in the flour at the last. Frosting: 1 pound 
of pulverized sugar, ^ teacup boiling water, the whites of 
3 eggs. Boil the sugar until it ropes from the spoon, then 
pour in a thin stream on the stiff beaten whites. Flavor. 
Make as layer cake, the icing between and on top. — Mrs. 
Mary R, K. Fowlkes, Selma, Ala. 



Cake. 57 

Washington Cake.— One-half pound of flour, V2 pound of 
sugar, Vi pound of butter, *4 pound raisins, *4 pound of citron , 
Vi pound of currants, 3 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 small tea- 
spoon of soda, cinnamon and nutmeg to the taste, glass of 
wine and brandy mixed. Caramel Filling: 2 teacups of 
white sugar (granulated), lump of butter size of an ^gg y 
% cup of rich milk or cream. Put it in a stewpan on the 
back of stove to boil slowly. Put another cup of white 
sugar in a dry tin pan on stove and brown. — Mrs. Hattie 
Gould Jefferics, Augusta, Ga. 

Doug'hnuts. — One cup sugar, 1 cup buttermilk, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tgg } pinch salt, nutmeg, and 
flour enough to roll out soft. — Mrs. Dr. Sid. Holland, Atlanta. 

FruitCake. — Fivecups of sugar, (the brown sugar is the 
best), 1 pound of butter, 12 eggs, 6 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon 
of soda, 1 cup of strong coffee, 2 tablespoons of fine ground 
coffee, V2 glass of brandy or whisky, 1 pound almonds cut 
fine, 1 pound of Brazil nuts cut fine, 1 pound hickory nuts, 
4 pounds raisins, 1 pound of citron, 1 pound of prunes 
cooked until soft, then chop, 1 cup of wine. — Mrs. W. H. 
Gainde, Montgomery, Ala. 

Layer White Fruit Cake.— Take any nice batter and bake 
in jelly pans, then make an icing, and when well beaten, 
mix in to it ^ pound crystallized pineapple, V2 pound cher- 
ries, x /2 pound of almonds. Cut all up in small pieces, then 
spread on the cake and over that sprinkle grated cocoanut. 
It is very nice. — Mrs. St. Julian Ravenell, Atlanta. 

Premium Cake.*— Whites of 17 eggs, 3 cups of sugar, 3 
cups of flour, 3 heaping teaspoons of cream tartar. Sift 

*Has taken first premium at several Kentucky fairs. 



58 Cake. 

sugar in eggs (well beaten), also cream tartar into flour. 
Mix well, stirring as lightly as possible. Flavor with 
lemon. Bake in four layers and ice together. — Mrs. J. R. 
McDowell, Lexington, Ky. 

Black Caramel Cake.— Two cups brown sugar, 4 cups flour, 
1 cup of butter, 1 cup of jam, 2 cups of raisins cut fine, 6 
eggs, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking powder, 1 tablespoon 
of allspice, nutmeg and brandy to taste. Bake in three lay- 
ers. Filling for Same: 3 cups brown sugar, IV2 cups of 
cream, 3 tablespoons of butter. — Miss Mary Harrison, 
Lexington, Ky. 

Tea Cake. — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of water, butter size 
of a walnut. Fut in a pan on the fire and let boil until 
nearly a syrup, then add V2 cup of sweet milk ; let boil little 
while longer until as thick as sauce. Take off and let cool. 
Have 3 eggs well beaten and beat them into the syrup and 
butter. Flavor this with nutmeg. Have in your tray 1 
quart of flour. Mix in 2 large spoons of baking powder, 
V2 cup melted lard. Pour mixture into this and work into 
light dough, not stiff. Roll out; bake in hot oven.— Mrs. 
Wm. King, Atlanta. 

Rocky Mountain Cake.— Make three layer cakes. Letonebe 
a silver white and one a dark spice, and color one rosy pink. 
Grate 2 cocoanuts. Break into small pieces Y2 pound of 
English walnuts and V2 pound of almonds. Cut up fine 1 
pound of raisins and 1 pound of citron. Wash and pick y 2 
pound of currants. Make a good boiled icing. Place your 
first cake , and spread your icing on rather thin ; sprinkle a 
thick layer of cocoanut, raisins, citron, and currants, and 
before putting on the next cake, ice the bottom side of this 



Cake. 59 

cake so it will stick to the layer of fruits and nuts. After 
it is all stacked, cover the whole with icing, sprinkle with 
cocoanut, and dot with the fruits and nuts. You will find 
this cake, served with a cup of hot chocolate, a dainty little 
repast in itself .—Miss Mamie O. Norris, Cartersville, Ga. 

Crullers.— Ten tablespoons of sugar, 6 tablespoons of 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon of soda, 4 eggs well beaten, 1 
cup sour milk, enough flour to roll into a soft dough, cinna- 
mon, and nutmeg. Fry in boiling hot lard.— Miss Anita 
Black, Atlanta. 

Spice Cake.— One cup of sugar, lcup of molasses, 1 cup of 
butter, 1 cup of sour milk, a little more than a cup of flour, 
3 eggs, 1 large teaspoon of all spice except cloves, of that a 
scant teaspoon. To cup of sour milk add teaspoon soda, 
to cup of molasses add % teaspoon soda. Mix butter and 
sugar together, add eggs, then milk and molasses, and sift 
the soda in the flour. Boil the sugar for frosting until it 
ropes and to this add the well-beaten white of an egg. Be- 
tween first and second layers put finely-chopped raisins 
with a little of the frosting. Use frosting alone on the top. 
—Mrs. B. W. Wrenn, Atlanta. 

Cream Cakes.— One cup hot water, ^ teaspoon salt, Y2 cup 
butter, IV2 cups pastry flour, 5 eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately. Boil the water, butter and salt. While 
boiling add the dry flour, stir well for five minutes, and 
when cool add the eggs. As this is such a stiff mixture 
some prefer to mix with the hand, and some rather add the 
eggs whole, one at a time. When thoroughly mixed, drop 
in tablespoonfuls on a buttered baking pan, some distance 
apart. Bake twenty or thirty minutes, or till brown and 



60 Cake. 

well puffed. Split when cool and fill with cream. Eclair: 
Bake the cream cake mixture in pieces four inches long 
and half that width. When cool split and fill with cream. 
Ice with chocolate or vanilla frosting. — Mrs. Moreland 
Speer, Atlanta. 

Sweet Wafers. — Three eggs, their weight in flour and sugar, 
not quite their weight in butter. Stir as little as possible. 
Fry in wafer irons. — Miss Eugenia Rucker, Atlanta. 

An Economical Cake.— Whites 6 eggs, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
milk, 2 cups of sugar, 3 cups flour, 1 level teaspoon baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Cream well the butter and 
sugar; add the whites of 6 eggs beaten stiff. Add flour 
well sifted with baking powder, then add milk and beat till 
light and smooth. If, after mixing the ingredients, the bat- 
ter is too soft, add enough flour to make it moderately 
stiff .—Miss Salty May Akin, Cartersville, Ga. 

Hot Chocolate Cake.— One cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, V2 cup 
sweet milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 eggs, 1 small teaspoon soda. 
Then add to V2 cup sweet milk 2 squares Baker's choco- 
late, grated. Put on to boil. Before taking off, add yolk 
of 1 egg, V2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Stir this well 
while it is hot into the above cake batter. Bake in layers. 
Frosting to Put Between Layers: 1 cup sugar, Y2 cup 
sweet milk, V2 square chocolate. Boil five minutes, then 
stir until cool and thick enough to spread between kryers. — 
Mrs. Robert Winship, Inman Park. 

Cream Cake.— Three eggs, 2 cups of sugar, y 2 cup butter, 
1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder. To be eaten with sauce.— Miss Sallie Malone, 
Atlanta. 



Cake. 61 

White Cake. — Cream 2 cups of white sugar with % of a 
cup of butter. Add alternately 4 cups of sifted flour and 
the beaten whites of 10 eggs, then 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder dissolved in ^2 cup of sweet milk. Flavor with 
lemon or rose. — Mrs. Sam. Jones, Cartersville, Ga. 

Fig Cake. — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of 
milk, 8 eggs (whites only), S 1 /^ cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 1 pound of figs. Cut the figs in small 
slices, flour them, and mix in the cake when it is ready to 
bake. Bake in a slow oven, and make one large loaf. — 
Mrs. J. J. Duffy, Atlanta. 

Lemon Sponge Cake.— Twelve eggs, beaten separately 
and well, 15 ounces of white sugar, % pound of sifted flour, 
juice of 1 fresh lemon. Weigh 1 pound of sugar and take 
out 2 tablespoons, which will leave 15 ounces. — Mrs. Hugh 
McKee, Atlanta. 

Crullers. — Six heaping tablespoons of sugar, 4 table- 
spoons milk or water, 4 tablespoons melted lard, 4 eggs, 1 
nutmeg, 1 teaspoon soda. Dissolve the soda in the water 
or milk ; knead in sufficient flour to prevent sticking. Cut 
in shapes and fry in boiling lard. — Mrs. G. A. Nicholson, 
Atlanta. 

Butternut Cake.— One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 3 cups flour, the whites of 5 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, flavor to taste. Bake like jelly cake in three 
parts. In the middle layer stir in 1 cup of butternut meats. 
Place one over the other when baked, the middle layer hav- 
ing the nuts. — Miss Bessie Boyd, East Point, Ga. 

Corn Pone.— One teacup of molasses, 1 tablespoon of 
salt, 3 pints warm water, corn meal. Sift the corn meal 



62 Cake. 

into a mixing bowl. Pour in the salt, molasses and water 
mix thoroughly, not too stiff. Let it stand in a warm 
place for five hours, then bake slowly for three hours. — 
Miss Sallie E. Norton, Norton, Ga. 

Cocoanut Cake.— Whites of 8 eggs, yolks of 4, V2 pound 
butter, 1 pound of sugar, 1 pound of flour, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon of yeast powders, 1 cup sweet milk. Beat the eggs 
separately, sift yeast powders with flour. Beat butter and 
sugar together, add milk last. Make 1 pound boiled icing. 
Take about half the icing and mix the cocoanut and spread 
between the layers of cake which have been baked in jelly 
pans, Flavor it with vanilla. — Mrs. Thomas Hardeman, 
Oxford, Ga. 

Marsh Mallow Cake.— Five ounces gum arabic, cover 
with 8 tablespoons of warm water. Set aside for an hour, 
then put this over the teakettle and in a farina boiler. Stir 
constantly until the gum is dissolved. Strain it through a 
fine sieve or piece of cheese cloth ; add to 7 ounces of pow- 
dered sugar (this will be little less than a cup). Stir until 
the sugar is dissolved. Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff 
froth, and pour in the gum while hot. Beat about two 
minutes, add 1 teaspoon vanilla, and put aside until cold 
and stiff. Let the cakes be cold before you put the mix- 
ture between. Any white cake will do for the layers.— 
Mrs. A. W. Force, Atlanta. 

Ginger Snaps.— One teacup of molasses, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 cup of butter and lard mixed, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
of soda in V 2 cup of boiling water, 1 good tablespoon of 
ground ginger, flour enough to make stiff dough. Roll thin 
and bake quickly.— Mrs. Wm. Drake, Atlanta. 



Puddings and Custards. 63 

Almond Cream Cake.— Two cups of sugar, 14 cup of but- 
ter, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups of flour, 4 eggs (whites only), 3 
teaspoons of baking powder, Y2 teaspoon of vanilla. Bake 
in three layers. Filling: One cup of rich cream, whipped 
(to be measured before it is whipped), y 2 cup of powdered 
sugar, 1 pound of almonds blanched and pounded to a 
paste, a few drops of vanilla. Spread thickly between lay- 
ers, and ice the top and sides.— Mrs. H. R. Slack, LaGrange, 
Ga. 

Sponge Cake.— This recipe never fails: Ten eggs, 1 pound 
sugar, V2 pound flour, 1 lemon ; separate eggs, stirring yolks 
and whipping whites the same length of time, until whites 
are firmly foamed, adding the pound of sugar before the 
active stirring of yolks begins, also the juiceof a large lemon 
and the grated rind ; gradually adding the sifted flour, which 
must be stirred in lightly, and immediately turned in a 
papered pan and baked slowly.— Mrs. Charles Price, Salis- 
bury, N. C. 

PUDDINGS AND CUSTARDS. 

Boiled Plum Pudding".— One pound butter, 4 pints of flour, 
12 eggs, 1 quart of milk, 1 tumbler of whisky, 1 pound of 
sweet raisins, 1 teaspoon of soda. Cream butter and 
flour. Beat eggs separately. Add the whites last. Flour 
the raisins, and after mixing flour, butter, eggs, milk, and 
soda, lightly stir in the raisins. Flour a canton flannel 
bag, and pour in the mixture. Put the bag in a pot of boil- 
ing water; be careful not to let it touch the sides. Boil six 
hours, and serve with hard butter sauce. — Mrs. Gen. T. R. 
R. Cobb, Athens, Ga. 



64 Puddings and Custards. 

Delicate and Simple Dessert.— Bring to boiling point 1 
quart of sweet milk. Add 6 tablespoons of sugar, then the 
beaten yolks of 4 eggs, stirring all the time until it thickens. 
Before boiling the milk, have ready 1 tablespoon of corn 
starch or 2 tablespoons of grated chocolate well dissolved 
in a little milk. Add this last. When cooked will be thicker 
than boiled custard. Flavor with 1 teaspoon of lemon and 1 
of vanilla and pour in a pudding dish. Whip whites of eggs, 
beaten stiff, with 3 tablespoons of sugar. Return to oven 
and brown slightly. Serve with or without cake This is a 
nice dessert for Sunday as it can be made on Saturday. 
Always serve cold. — Mrs. Chas. Lovelace, Columbus, Ga. 

Cottage Pudding".— One cup sugar, 1 sweet milk, 1 pint 
flour, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 of 
cream tartar, and 1 egg. — Mrs. Wm. J. Speer, Atlanta. 

Green Tomato Pie.— For one pie, peel and slice 5 green to- 
matoes. Add 4 tablespoons of vinegar, 1 tablespoon of 
butter, 3 tablespoons of sugar. Flavor with nutmeg or 
cinnamon. Bake with two crusts slowly. — Mrs. A. A. Har- 
mon, Atlanta. 

Dixie Pudding". — One cup of sugar, 1 cup of bread crumbs 
grated fine, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons of butter, 1 cup of figs or 
peach preserves, milk enough to make about the con- 
sistency of rice pudding. Pour into a pudding bowl and 
bake. Serve with a sauce. — Mrs. Dr. Richard L. Sykes, 
Columbus, Miss. 

Plum Pudding".— (Simple but very good). One and one-half 
pintsof grated bread crumbs (soft, notdried),l pint chopped 
suet,lM} pintsof currants and stoned raisins mixed, ^2 cup of 
citron shaved thin, 1 scant cup of sugar, ^ teaspoon of salt, 



Puddings and Custards. 65 

V2 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 5 eggs, 2 even tablespoons of 
flour made into a thin batter with milk and V2 glass of 
brandy. Mix in the order given. Boil or steam four hours. 
Serve with sauce. — Mrs. Louis Gholstin, Atlanta. 

Chocolate Pudding". — The yolks of 6 eggs, 1% cups sugar, 
1 cup cracker dust, 1 cup grated chocolate, then add whites 
beaten stiff . Bake. Eat with sauce. 

Lemon Sauce.— One pound sugar, 3 ounces butter, y 2 cup 
water, rind of 2 lemons, 2 teaspoons extract of lemon. 
Pour in saucepan, and when it comes to a boil, beat in the 
yolks of 2 eggs. When boiled, take it off from the fire. 
Add the 2 whites. Let boil a few minutes.— Mrs. Julius 
Alexander, Atlanta. 

White Sauce. — Whites of 2 unbeaten eggs and 1 cup of 
sugar beaten together. Add 1 teaspoon of good vinegar; 
beat well, then add 3 tablespoons of good wine, and just as 
it goes to the table, add % of a cup of beaten (not 
whipped) cream. — Mrs. John Keely, Atlanta. 

1 pound strawberries, V2 pound white sugar steamed 
twenty minutes in double kettle. 1 pound of plums, halved 
and stoned, 1 pound sugar; place in alternate layers in stone 
jar. Let them so remain for at least forty -eight hours; 
then boil twenty minutes. — Mrs. Wm. M. Darlington, Pitts- 
burg, Pa. 

White Custard. — One and one-half pints of cream, scalding 
hot. While the cream is heating, put the whites of 4 eggs in a 
bowl with 4 heaping tablespoons of sugar and 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla. Pour the hot cream on the eggs and sugar, stir- 
ring all the time. Put the custard in cups, set them in a 



66 Puddings and Custards. 

pan of hot water, cover with a paper and bake until like 
jelly. Do not beat the whites of the eggs, or it will be 
spoiled. — Mrs. John Neal, Atlanta. 

Citron Pudding.— Make pastry as for pies. V2 pound of 
butter, 1 pound sugar, 1 lemon, yolks of 12 eggs, citron. 
Cream butter and sugar; add yolks of 12 eggs, well 
beaten; then one or more lemons to taste; then add small, 
thin slices of citron on top. This will make two pies. — 
Mrs. Henry H. Inman, Atlanta. 

Macaroon Pudding-.— Let 1 quart of milk come to a boil, 
then stir in the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, well beaten 
together. Soak % of a box of Cox's gelatine in a cup of 
water and add to the custard. Let it come to a boil, take 
it from the fire and add the whites of the eggs, which must 
be beaten stiff. Fill a glass bowl about half full of maca- 
roons, first dipping them in sherry wine, then pour over 
custard. Serve with whipped cream flavored with wine. 
— Mrs. James Scrutchens, Atlanta. 

Date Mush.— One cup farina, V2 pound dates. Boil farina, 
and pour in small molds over cut up fruit. Serve cold with 
custard. — Miss Kitty Peters, Atlanta. 

" 1776" Mince Meat.— One tongue parboiled, the weight of 
it in suet and V2 pound more, all chopped fine, 2 pounds cur- 
rants, 1^2 pounds raisins stoned, 1 pound citron, 12 tart 
apples, V± ounce each cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, juice 4 
lemons, peel of 2 lemons chopped fine, V2 pint wine, V/2 
pints brandy, IY2 pounds sugar, and some salt. Add juice 
of 2 more lemons if needed. — English, and owned by Richard 
Peters' family. 



Puddings and Custards. 67 

Golden Pudding,— Boil 1 quart of sweet milk, and add 5 
tablespoons of tlour, a little salt, 7 eggs (reserving whites 
of 3), 8Y2 cups sugar. Bake half hour. 

Silver Sauce.— Whites of 3 eggs, beaten with iy 2 cups of 
sugar, and a glass of wine. More wine improves the same. 
It is not so thick.— Mrs. Will Inman, Atlanta. 

Temperance Mince Meat.— Two pounds chopped meat, the 
same of suet chopped fine, 2 pounds each of raisins and cur- 
rants, 3 A pound of citron, 4 pounds chopped apples, 3 
pounds sugar, and a pinch of salt. The juice of 4 oranges 
and a strong lemonade made of 6 lemons to stir into the 
mixture ; spices to taste. Put above in a porcelain kettle 
and boil gently until the suet and apples are entirely dis- 
solved; put in jars.— Mrs. W. H. Nutting, Atlanta. 

Confectioners' Pastry .—One and one-half pounds of flour to 

1 pound of butter. Mix a stiff dough with 1 tablespoon of 
lard and 1 of butter, add a little salt. Roll the dough and 
spread butter on it a number of times, until all of the butter 
is used. — Mrs. Harriet Gould, Augusta, Ga. 

Lemon Meringue Pie.— Two large lemons, juice and rind, 

2 teacups of sugar, 1 teacup of milk, 2 tablespoons of corn 
starch dissolved in the milk and poured in lastly, yolks of 6 
eggs. Make a pie crust, fill with the above, and bake as a 
pie. Whisk the whites of eggs ; add to them 8 tablespoons 
of powdered sugar; flavor with rose water. When the pie 
is baked, pour this mixture over it; set back in the oven 
until it becomes a delicate brown. The above makes two 
pies. A delicate bonne-bouche.— Mrs. L. B. Purnell, Balti- 
more, Md. 



68 Puddings mid Custards. 

Ginger Pudding".— Two cups of syrup, 1 tablespoon of soda . 
Beat soda and syrup together, add 4 cups of sifted flour. 
V2 cup of sifted meal, 1 cup of buttermilk, 1 tablespoon of 
melted lard, 1 teaspoon of ginger. Bake in hot oven. — Mrs. 
Dr. Gillespie, Atlanta. 

Lemon Pudding.— Six eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 ta- 
blespoons corn starch, 2 lemons, rind of one, juice of 2; 
whites with 8 tablespoons of pulverized sugar. — Mrs. J. G. 
Armstrong, Atlanta. 

Strawberry Short Cake.— One pint of flour, yolk of 1 egg, 1 
tablespoon of butter, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 teaspoon 
yeast powder. Mix with sweet milk a soft dough. 
Bake, and while hot split and butter and put a lawyer of 
fresh strawberries well sweetened between the layers, one 
layer on top. Then cover with whipped cream, sweetened. — 
Mrs. Francis Fontaine, Atlanta. 

Vevey Pudding". — \i pound of rice, l 1 /^ pints of rich milk, 
Vs box of gelatine, 1 teacup of white sugar, 1 pint of cream, 
1 tablespoon of vanilla, 1 wineglass of sherry. Boil the 
rice in the IV2 pints of milk until very soft. Add the teacup 
of sugar, V2 teaspoon of salt, vanilla and wine. Dissolve 
the gelatine in as little water as possible and add to the 
pint of cream. Mix all together and pour into mold and 
set on ice. To be served with cream.— Mrs. Dr. Hunter P. 
Cooper, Atlanta. 

Orange Pie. — Two cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour, 1 cup of 
milk, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in 
Washington pie shallow tins. Filling: 2V2 cups of water, 
3 tablespoons of corn starch, grated rind of 2 oranges and 
juice of 3 oranges and pieces of 1 lemon, 1 cup of powdered 




MRS. RHODE HILL, 
Member Board of Women Managers. 



Puddings and Custards. 69 

sugar, 1 tablespoon of butter, and yolks of 3 eggs. Put 
the 2 cups of water in the double boiler. When it boils, 
add the corn starch mixed with IMj cups of cold water. 
Cook ten minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar together, and add butter, the orange and lemon juice, 
and set away to cool. When cold spread between the cakes 
and frost with the whites of eggs. Rule For Frosting : 
To the white of 1 egg add 1 cup of powdered sugar. 
Beat until it will stick to the dish.— Mrs. A. V. Gude, 
Atlanta. 

Washing" ton Fritters.— Two cups milk, 2 cups flour, 3 table- 
spoons sugar, 4 eggs well beaten, a little salt, V2 teaspoon 
of cinnamon. Beat the sugar into the yolks. Add milk, 
salt and seasoning; the flour and whites alternately. Beat 
hard for three minutes. Have ready plenty of lard in a 
deep vessel, make very hot. Make the batter into small 
balls and drop into the fat and cook quickly. Serve on a 
napkin with pulverized sugar sprinkled over them.— Mrs. 
Junius Oglesby, Atlanta. 

Strawberry Spong'e.— Dissolve a small quantity of gela- 
tine in as little water as possible. Dip as many ripe strawber- 
ries in it as will line a two-quart mold. Take 6 ounces of 
fine sugar and 1 quart of strawberries rubbed together till 
smooth, 1 pint of whipped cream and 2 ounces of gelatine 
dissolved and mixed with the cream. Beat these all to_ 
gether and pour into the mold, previously lined with 1he 
berries. Set on ice till ready for use. Turn it out on a dish 
and serve with whipped cream and angel cake.— Mrs. Wal- 
ter B. Porter, Atlanta. 



70 Paddings a ad Custards. 

Swedish Timbales.— For the shells, use 1 cup of flour, V 2 
cup of milk, 2 eggs, V2 teaspoon of salt, V2 teaspoon of 
sugar, 2 tablespoons salad oil. Put all the ingredients to- 
gether in a mixing bowl, and with a beater, beat to a 
smooth batter. Put the timbale iron in a kettle of hot fat 
for about twenty minutes. Take the bowl of batter in the 
left hand and hold it near the kettle of hot fat ; with the 
right hand lift the iron from the fat, wipe it on soft paper, 
dip it into the batter, coating the iron to within % of an 
inch from the top. Allow the batter to dry and then dip it 
in the hot fat, holding the iron a little sidewise until it is in 
the fat, then turn perpendicularly and cook until the bat- 
ter is a delicate brown, or about one minute. Take the 
iron out the same way it is put in, being very careful not to 
drop the timbale into the fat, drain the grease off and lay 
it on paper to drain. Wipe the grease from the iron with a 
soft paper every time it is used. These maybe filled with 
creamed oysters, creamed fish, green peas, macaroni, 
oranges, bananas, apricots, strawberries, etc., or mixed 
fruits with whipped cream over the top. They may be 
made at any time, and put in a dry, warm place, where they 
will keep indefinitely. — Miss Annie B. Northen, Atlanta. 

Bananas en Surprise.— Select 6 firm, good-sized bananas, 
split them open carefully and remove the pulp. Beat the 
pulp to a cream, measure, and add half as many strawber- 
ries, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice, 3 tablespoons of pow- 
dered sugar, and 1 tablespoon of sherry or orange juice. 
Mix well together, being very careful not to make the pulp 
too liquid ; then fill the banana skins and stand them on 
ice. To serve properly, the bananas should be tied with 



Puddings and Custards. 71 

narrow ribbons of green and dull red. When strawberries 
are not in season, peaches, cherries or orange pulp may be 
used, changing the flavoring accordingly. — Mrs. Wm. M. 
Slaton, Atlanta. 

Plum Pudding*.— Half pound citron, 1 pound raisins, V2 
pound butter, *4 pound sugar, 3 eggs, 3 ounces flour, 3 
ounces bread crumbs, 1 cup sweet milk poured over bread 
crumbs, spices to taste. Sauce: 2 cups granulated sugar, 
1 cup fresh butter, V2 teacup of water. Put this on the 
stove and let come to boil. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs and 
stir to this and boil once. Flavor with wine or vanilla. — 
Mrs. James Judkins, Wetumka, Ala. 

Exposition Pudding*. — Mix well 12 eggs, wineglass of 
water with the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 tablespoon of butter, 
juice of 3 lemons, 1 cup of granulated sugar; boil together 
until thick, and when only milk -warm, pour into a deep dish 
lined with sliced sponge cake. After it is entirely cold, 
make a meringue of the 6 whites. Add a few drops of 
lemon juice to the meringue, spread on top the pudding 
and bake a delicate brown. — Mrs. George A. Parrott, Atlanta. 

Strawberry Short Cake.— Make a good biscuit dough, 
rather short, into two layer cakes; bake a delicate brown. 
While hot butter them, slicing each cake in two, sweeten the 
strawberries, then mash them and spread thickly in the lay- 
ers, reserving the largest to cover the top. Serve hot with 
plenty of rich cream. — Mrs. Livingston Mims, Atlanta. 

Syrup Custard.— Five eggs well beaten, 1 cup of sugar, ^ 
cup butter, 2 tablespoons of corn starch or flour and 1 ta- 
blespoon of vanilla. Bake in rich crust. This quantity will 
make two custards. — Mrs. D. B. Freeman, Cartersville, Ga. 



72 Puddings and Custards. 

Steamed Apple Pudding*.— Three juicy apples, 2 eggs, 1 tea- 
cup of sweet milk, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 pint flour. Cut the 
apples in very small slices ; make a batter about the con- 
sistency of waffle batter, using eggs with flour, yeast pow- 
der and salt. Put first in this dish a layer of batter, then 
one of apples. Continue this until the dish is full, having 
batter for the last layer. Steam for two hours and serve 
with sauce or sweetened cream. Flavor either one with 
nutmeg.— Mrs. Wm. B. Lowe, Atlanta. 

Windsor Fig Pudding 1 . — Five ounces of suet, 8 ounces of 
bread crumbs, 6 of sugar, % pound of figs (dried), chopped 
very fine, 3 eggs, 1 cup of milk, V2 wineglass of brandy, 1 
nutmeg, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Chop all very fine 
and stir thoroughly. Steam three hours in a tightly-closed 
steam pan.— Mrs. Wm. Hamlin, Detroit, Mich. 

Gelatine Pudding.— One-half box gelatine, 5 eggs beaten sep- 
arately, 4 tablespoons powdered sugar, 3 pints sweet milk. 
Dissolve gelatine in milk over the fire, then add sugar, then 
yolks, then add the well-beaten whites of eggs, just after 
the bucket comes out of the kettle of boiling water ; then 
pouring into molds, set in a cold place until ready to serve. 
To be eaten cold with sweetened cream, flavored with 
sherry wine, or boiled custard flavored with vanilla. This 
will turn out of the mold, some clear jelly and some yel- 
low. This is a very delicate dessert or a pretty dish for tea 
table.— Mrs. Tom Blanchard, Columbus, Ga. 

Chocolate Pudding'.— One quart milk, 1 cup sugar, V3 cup of 
Baker's chocolate, 1 whole egg and yolks of 3 more, 2 
spoons of corn starch. Leave out a cup of milk to mix the 
ingredients. Boil these until the milk begins to thicken, 



Puddings and Custards. 73 

then pour into your pudding dish. When cold, make a 
meringue of the whites, flavor with vanilla and pour over 
the pudding and set it in the stove for three minutes. A lit- 
tle chocolate beaten with the meringue is nice. — Miss Kate 
Clayton, Atlanta. 

A New Dish.— Soak V2 pound French prunes in a very little 
water ; put them on the stove with 1 tumbler of claret and 
a small piece of stick cinnamon. Simmer the fruit until ten- 
der, add 4 ounces of sugar. When it is dissolved, remove 
the stones and rub the prunes through a wire sieve. Take 
2 ounces of bread crumbs, beat 3 eggs very light, and 
mix together. Add with the prunes. Put the mixture into 
a buttered mold, steam it about one hour. Turn into 
a dish, serving with whipped cream. — Mrs. Phil. Dodd, 
Atlanta. 

Banbury Tarts.— Patty shells or timbales, one cup raisins 
chopped fine, 1 cup sugar, *4 pound figs, V^ pound citron 
chopped fine, juice of 1 orange, juice of 1 lemon. Add a 
little water and let the fruit boil until tender. When cool, 
add a little vanilla, 1 tablespoon sweet wine, fill the shells 
and put 1 large spoon of whipped cream on each one. — Mrs. 
C. H. Page, Atlanta. 

Strawberry Sauce for Puddings.— One large tablespoon of 
butter, creamed. Add gradually 1V£ cups powdered sugar 
and the beaten white of 1 egg. Beat till very light, and 
just before serving add 1 pint mashed strawberries. — Miss 
Bessie Draper, Atlanta. 

Mince Meat. — One pound raisins, 1 pound currants, 
14 pound citron (sliced), 2 pounds lean beef boiled and 
chopped, *4 pound each suet and leaf lard, 3 pints tart 



74 Puddings and Custards. 

apples, sugar to taste, 1 heaping tablespoon of cinnamon, 
spice, mace, ginger and nutmeg, a little salt ; moisten with 
sweet cider or sweet pickle vinegar. After cooking the 
beef, put all on the lire in a vessel and cook until the apples 
are well done, then it will not ferment. — Mrs. W. D. Smith, 
Oxford, Ala. 

Creme Renve'rse.— One quart of milk, 6 eggs, 4 tablespoons 
of sugar, 1 teaspoon of vanilla, 1 teacup of sugar. Take 
the teacup of sugar and put in a small boiler with ^ pint of 
water; let this boil until it begins to burn or be a golden 
brown color; pour this into a mold, covering the sides of 
it with the caramel. Scald the milk, add the yolks of the 
eggs and 4 tablespoons of sugar and the vanilla. Pour 
into the mold and set it in a pan of water and bake in a 
hot oven. When cold turn it out on a dish. P. S. : 1^ pints 
of milk and 4 eggs make a good-sized pudding. — Mrs. H. H. 
Tucker, Atlanta. 

Windsor Pudding*.— Take of apples, currants, suet, raisins 
and a cold Swiss or French roll, each V2 pound, peel and 
juice of 1 lemon, 1 glass of sherry wine, V2 teaspoon of nut- 
meg, and pinch of salt. Grate the roll and add to the suet 
finely chopped, the nutmeg and lemon juice. Stone and 
mince the raisins, apply very fine. Add these, then the cur- 
rants, wine and eggs well beaten. Mix thoroughly and boil 
in a pudding dish. Sift white sugar over the pudding. — 
Mrs. 0. H. Lochrane, Atlanta. 

Nesselrode Pudding.— Forty chestnuts, 1 pound of sugar, 
flavoring of vanilla, 1 pint of cream, yolks of 12 eggs, 1 
glass of maraschino, 1 ounce candied citron, 2 ounces of 
currants, 2 ounces of stoned raisins. Blanch the chestnuts 



Puddings and Custards. 75 

in boiling water, remove the nuts and pound until smooth, 
adding a few spoonfuls of the syrup; then rub through a fine 
sieve and mix them in a basin with a pint of syrup, made 
from 1 pound of sugar flavored with vanilla, 1 pint of 
cream and the yolks of 12 eggs. Set this mixture over a 
slow fire, stirring it without ceasing until the eggs begin to 
thicken (without allowing them to curdle), then take it off. 
When it is cold, put it into the freezer, adding the mara- 
schino and make the mixture set, then add the sliced citron, 
currants and raisins to whole. Then add a plate of 
whipped cream mixed to the whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a 
froth. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put into a 
mold, pack so it will become hard, and serve. — Mrs. Henry 
W. Grady, Atlanta. 

Delightful Sauce.— One-half cup of butter, Y2 cup of sugar. 
Beat them together. Add the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. 
Pour on a cup of boiling wine, or if you have no wine, put % 
cup of whisky, or you may instead use either a teaspoon of 
lemon or vanilla. — Mrs. Mary P. Cooper, Washington, Ga. 

Ginger Pudding 1 .— One cup of molasses, 2 cups of brown 
sugar, V/2 cups sweet milk, 1 cup butter and lard mixed, 6 
cups sifted flour, 1 level teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons 
of ginger, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 3 eggs. — Miss 
Daisy Merrill, Atlanta. 

Jeff Davis Pudding.— Two cups of flour, 1 cup of raisins, 1 
cup of currants, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup suet, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 1 small teaspoon of soda. Put soda in molasses, then 
add flour alternately with milk, suet next, fruit last; put 
in thin cotton bags or molds, and steam for two hours. — 
Miss Carrie M. Merrill, Atlanta. 



76 Puddings and Custards. 

Plum Pudding*— Two cups flour, 1 heaping cup of bread 
crumbs, 1 cup of molasses, IY2 cups stoned raisins, V2 cup 
citron (cut fine), 1 cup suet chopped fine, 1 cup sweet milk, 
1 tablespoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt, IV2 teaspoons of cloves 
and cinnamon ; steam two and a half hours. To be eaten 
with butter sauce.— Mrs. J. H. Porter, Atlanta. 

Pf.um Pudding. — This pudding is best when prepared, all 
but eggs, the day before using. Three-fourths pound picked 
and finely-chopped suet, % pound of stoned raisins, % 
pound of currants, V4 pound of citron cut in small slices, % 
pound of powdered sugar, % pound of bread crumbs 
grated, 1 lemon, grated yellow rind and juice, 1 tablespoon 
of powdered mace and cinnamon mixed and 2 powdered 
nutmegs, 12 eggs beaten separately. Steep allspice in Y2 
pint of mixed wine and brandy over night closely covered. 
Beat wine and eggs together until thick and smooth, then 
add bread crumbs. Mix with the sugar, grated yellow rind 
and juice of lemon, then add gradually prepared ingredi- 
ents, stirring hard. Butter pudding mold, fill with mix- 
ture and boil four hours. Sprinkle hot dish with powdered 
sugar. Turn out pudding; pour Y2 pint warm rum and 
light when taking to the table. This is sufficient for 
twenty persons. — Mrs. Willie Conyers Cook, Inman Park. 

Jeff Davis Pudding 1 .— Put 1 pint milk on fire and when it 
boils, stir in 2 tablespoons of flour wet in a little cold milk. 
Let thicken. Take from the fire and stir in Y2 pound of 
sugar, ^4 pound of butter and 6 eggs well beaten. The 
whites beat to a stiff froth and add just before baking. 
Flavor with vanilla. Serve with wine sauce. — Miss Lucy 
Cook Peel, Atlanta. 



Paddings and Custards. 77 

Trifle.— Make a boiled custard of corn starch, almost as 
thick as blanc mange. When thoroughly cold, flavor to 
taste. Have ready a sponge cake, syllabub and 1 pound of 
almonds blanched and shaved in thin slices with a knife. 
Cover the bottom of a glass dish with custard, cover the 
custard with thin slices of cake, the cake with syllabub and 
so on, custard, cake and syllabub in alternation, sprinkling 
almonds between each layer until the dish is filled, syllabub 
on top. It is better when prepared several hours before it 
is used and best when made over night and kept in a very 
cool place. — Mrs. Earnest Woodruff, Inman Park. 

Prune Souffle.— Thirty -five prunes, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
2 teaspoons of corn starch, whites of 9 eggs. After washing 
prunes thoroughly, put in soak over night and then cook 
them in same water until soft. Stone and mash. Add 
sugar, corn starch, the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Boil for three-fourths of an hour. Serve cold with 
whipped cream.— Mrs. J. Carroll Payne, Atlanta. 

Strawberry Tapioca.— To 1 cup of granulated tapioca 
add 2 cups of cold water; soak a half hour. Put into a 
porcelain kettle and add 3 cups of milk warm water. Let 
cook till clear as jelly. Add a pinch of salt and 1 heaping 
cup of sugar. Cook a few minutes and pour into a vessel 
and let cool. When cold add 1 quart of strawberries 
mashed and sweetened to taste, and the juice of 1 lemon. 
Mix well with the tapioca and put on ice. Whip 1 pint of 
rich cream, flavor with vanilla or sherry. Serve with the 
strawberry tapioca. It can be made with any fruit.— Mrs. 
Samuel Stocking, Atlanta. 



78 Gelatines. 

Swiss Pudding".— One teacup of flour, 4 tablespoons of 
butter, 3 of sugar, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, the rind of a 
lemon ; grate the rind of the lemon into the milk, which put 
in the double boiler; rub the flour and butter together, pour 
the boiling milk on this, and return to the boiler; cook 5 
minutes, stirring the first 2; beat the yolks of the eggs and 
sugar together, and stir into the boiling mixture; remove 
from the fire immediately; when cold, add the whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and pour into a 3-quart mold 
well buttered, and steam 40 minutes. Serve hot with cream 
sauce.— Mrs. R. D. Spalding, Atlanta. 



GELATINES, 



Charlotte Russe.— One quart rich cream, *4 package Nel- 
son's gelatine, whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
sweeten to taste, add 1 wineglass of sherry wine and 1 tea- 
spoon of vanilla. Soak the gelatine in V2 pint milk for 
twenty minutes and then warm till gelatine is dissolved. 
Line a mold with fresh lady fingers, whip the cream, 
eggs, wine, vanilla and sugar, and put it, cup at a time, 
into a bowl. When all is whipped, and the gelatine and 
milk is about milk -warm, stir the latter into the former 
lightly and fill the mold.— Miss Hattie Root. 

Spanish Cream.— One-fourth box Hazard's gelatine, soak 
in 1 cup of water, 1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 6 tablespoons of 
sugar, W2 teaspoons of vanilla. Put milk on to boil in 
double boiler, separate eggs. In yolks, put 3 tablespoons of 
sugar and vanilla, stir well. In whites, beat 3 tablespoons 
of sugar until stiff. When milk boils, put in gelatine, then 



Gelatines. 79 

yolks, then whites. Stir until stiff. Put in mold. Serve 
with cream. — Mrs. Chas. Runnette, Inman Park. 

Wine Jelly.— Half ounce red gelatine, V2 ounce white gela- 
tine mixed, the juice of 1 lemon. Pour 1/2 pint of cold 
water over this and let it stand half an hour. Pour over it 
1 pint boiling water, V2 pound sugar, V 2 pint sherry wine. 
Strain through a bag into a mold. Set it away to get 
cold.— Mrs. J. F. Burke, Atlanta. 

Noszky Cream.— Twelve eggs, 3^4 pounds of granulated 
sugar, 2 lemons, 2 ounces of gelatine, red or white, V2 pint 
of sherry wine. Separate the eggs, the yolks beaten with 
the sugar for a half hour. Grate the lemon peeling and 
strain the juice together. Dissolve the gelatine in the wine, 
warming it a little. Beat the whites of the eggs as stiff as 
possible and add to the yolks ; gelatine added last. Pour in 
a melon mold and set in a cool place. Serve with rich 
cream.— Mrs. Dr. E. L. Connally, West End. 

Coffee Mousse.— One quart of whipped cream, 2 table- 
spoons of gelatine dissolved in 2 tablespoons of boiling 
water. Boil 3 tablespoons of coffee in a cup of milk, 
strain, mix with the gelatine. When cold add it to the 
whipped cream. Put in a mold, pack in ice and salt. The 
cream must be whipped solidly through. — Mrs. James Free- 
man, Atlanta. 

Souffle de Russe.— One and one-fourth quarts milk, dissolve 
in it an ounce box of gelatine and cook until it is as thick as 
soft custard, having added the yolks of 4 eggs beaten light, 
with 4 tablespoons of sugar. When as thick as custard, 
add the whites of the 4 eggs beaten stiff. Take off the 
stove before adding whites. Stir very briskly and pour in 



80 Gelatines. 

molds to cool. Eaten cold with a sauce of whipped cream, 
flavored with wine. — Mrs. Houston Force, St. Louis, Mo. 

Charlotte Polonaise.— Yolks of 3 eggs, IY2 pints of fresh 
milk, 3 heaping iron spoons of sugar, 1 tablespoon of corn 
starch, cook until it thickens, flavor with vanilla. Divide 
the above into two parts, stirring in 1 pound of blanched 
almonds chopped fine in one, and in the other 1 pound 
chopped citron, then spread between any white layer cake, 
alternate layers of citron and almond custard. — Mrs. Sarah 
P. Lea, Holly Springs, Miss. 

Charlotte Russe. — One quart sweet cream, 1 coffee cup 
sugar, whites of 3 eggs beaten to stiff froth. Add to them 
sugar till about thickness of icing, putting remainder of 
sugar in cream, V^toVz cup wine, V2 box gelatine dissolved 
in warm water until thickness of honey. Season with 
vanilla to taste. Add wine and vanilla to cream before be- 
ginning to churn it. After frothed cream and well-beaten 
eggs have been mixed together, add gelatine last, stirring 
gently until whole begins to stiffen; then pour into molds 
and set away in cool place. — Mrs. E. R. DuBose, Atlanta. 

Ribbon Blanc Mange.— Dissolve % of a box of Knox's 
gelatine in a pint of hot milk, sweeten with % cup sugar. 
Now divide the milk into three parts. Into the first, put 
the whites of 2 eggs, previously beaten to a stiff froth, and 
flavor with lemon. Put the beaten yolks, flavored with 
vanilla, into another. Wet 3 good tablespoons of grated 
chocolate with a little warm water, flavor with vanilla, 
and add the remaining third of milk and gelatine. As 
each part stiffens, whip with egg-beater, turning into a 
wet mold; first whites, then yellows, then chocolate. Can 



Gelatines. 81 

color the white pink with fruit coloring, if you like. Serve 
with whipped cream. — Miss Carrie Williams, LaGrange, Ga. 

Charlotte Russe.— If the weather is very cold, use V2 box 
of gelatine, soaked in a little cold water about half an hour. 
If moderately cold use % box. Beat yolks of 4 eggs very 
light with 4 tablespoons of sugar. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth. Churn 1 quart of sweet cream flavored with 
vanilla. Mix the whites with yolks, next the cream. Pour 
enough hot water on the gelatine to thoroughly dissolve it. 
When cool, but before it begins to congeal, pour slowly into 
the mixture. Stir constantly to prevent lumping, only a 
few minutes, however. Then pour into a bowl to congeal. 
— Mrs. John Durr, Jr., Montgomery, Ala. 

Floating 1 Island (English).— One-half pint of cream, 3 
ounces of sugar, the juice and rind of 1 lemon grated, 2 
French rolls, apricot jam, 4 eggs, damson jam, sherry wine. 
Beat the cream and sugar to a stiff froth; lay it at the bot- 
tom of a glass dish. Cut the rolls into thin slices, lay them 
on the cream, pour a little sherry over and spread with 
apricot jam. Put another layer of rolls soaked in sherry, 
and pile on this a whip made of whites of eggs and dam- 
son jam. Pile it as high as possible. — Mrs. Capt. John L. 
Clem, Fort McPherson, Ga. 

Gelatine Jelly.— To 2 boxes of gelatine, add 4 quarts of 
water, 1 quart wine, 4 lemons, 2 quarts crushed sugar, IY2 
ounces of stick cinnamon, 3 dozen cloves, 3 or 4 blades mace, 
whites of 6 eggs well beaten, also the shells. Stir constantly 
until the mixture boils, then do not disturb it until it boils 
thirty minutes, straining through flannel bag.— Mrs. Joe 
Hirsch, Atlanta. 



82 Gelatines. 

White Charlotte.— One quart of cream, 1 pound of sugar, 
1 ounce of gelatine, 1 wineglass of wine, 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla, whites of 6 eggs. Add a part of the sugar to the 
cream and whip to a stiff froth. Whip your eggs very stiif 
and add the rest o: the sugar to them, and then whip them 
into your cream, beat well and flavor. Lastly, add the gel- 
atine after it has been dissolved in the wine and half a cup 
of water. Beat all together well and set in a cool place to 
congeal. — Mrs. A. A. Dozier, Columbus, Ga. 

Jellied Tangerines.— Peel 1 dozen tangerine oranges, very 
carefully removing as much as possible of the white skin. 
Divide into sections and remove the seed. Have ready a 
box of gelatine which has been soaked in cold water for 
two hours. Pour over it 3 teacups of boiling water, stir 
until thoroughly dissolved. Add 2 teacups of fine granu- 
lated sugar. When dissolved, add the juice of 1 lemon, 1 
teacup syrup from canned pineapple (or syrup from fresh 
fruit). Strain mixture through double cheese cloth. Have 
ready as many tiny teacups as there are guests, and dip 
them in cold water ; put two or three sections of orange in 
each and pour over enough jelly to cover well. Set in a cold 
place until serving time. Turn out upon pretty individual 
dishes, and garnish the base with whipped cream. Sprinkle 
a few crystallized cherries on cream. — Mrs. S. B. Hudson, 
Columbus, Miss. 

Chocolate Cream.— (As made byFrauvon Mach, Dresden.) 
One-half of a cake of chocolate grated, IV2 teacups of 
sugar, 1 quart of cream, 1 pint of milk, 1 tablespoon of 
corn starch or flour, 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Put the milk on 
to boil. Pour a little hot water over the chocolate and the 



Gelatines. 83 

sugar, stirring to a smooth paste. Then pour into the milk. 
Cook together until as thick as a boiled custard and stir in 
the corn starch, aud when it boils up well once, it is done. 
Set away to cool, and when quite cold, stir into it the cream, 
which has been flavored previously with vanilla, sweetened 
to taste and well whipped. Do not stir much, leaving the 
chocolate in streaks showing through the white cream. — 
Mrs. Julius Brown, Atlanta. 

Turkish Preserved Oranges.— One bitter orange to 3 sweet 
oranges. Weigh the oranges whole and allow sugar pound 
for pound. Peel the oranges neatly and cut the rind into 
narrow shreds. Boil in clear water until tender, changing 
the water twice. Squeeze the strained juice of all the 
oranges over the sugar. Boil enough to clarify the sugar; 
put in the rinds and boil twenty minutes. — Miss Emma 
Roberts, Atlanta. 

Green Lemon Preserves.— Soak the lemons four days in 
salt water, then simmer them in pure water, do not let 
them boil. When tender, take out the pulp. Place them to 
drain while making a rich syrup. When the syrup is per- 
fectly cold, pour over the lemons. Let it remain three days, 
by which time the syrup will become green. Drain the 
syrup off and boil over again; when perfectly cold pour 
over the lemons. This must be done three times. — Mrs. 
Abbie R. Hopkins, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

Ogeechee Lime Preserves.— Cut off the extreme ends of 
the limes. Soak them three days in salt water, then three 
days in fresh water. Boil them till tender, add syrup, IV2 
pounds sugar to 1 pound of limes. They require more boi 1 - 



84 Gelatines. 

ing than almost any other fruit. — Mrs. Abbie R. Hopkins, 
Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

Small Orange Preserves.— Scrape the skin of the oranges 
with a knife so that the oil may escape. Soak them three 
days in strong salt water, then three days in fresh water. 
Boil in pure water till soft enough to take out the insides, 
which can be done with a teaspoon handle through a small 
opening in the stem end of the orange. Soak again in pure 
water one day and night. Then boil till very tender before 
adding the sugar; 1 pound of sugar to 1 pound of oranges. 
—Miss Lottie Hopkins, Atlanta. 

Fruit Gelatine.— Prepare V2 box of gelatine for congeal- 
ing. When nearly cold, pour over a bowl half -filled with 
pineapple, bananas, sliced orange and Malaga grapes, and 
allow to stand over night. Serve with a generous dash of 
wine. — Miss Gussie Wylie, Atlanta. 

To Make Jelly Without Boiling.— One package Knox's 
gelatine, 1^2 pounds of granulated sugar, 1 pint sherry 
wine, 3 lemons, 1 pint of cold water and 1 quart boiling 
water. Put the gelatine in a bowl with the juice of the 
lemon and the rind pared thin and the sugar. Pour over 
this 1 pint cold water. Let it stand an hour or two. Then 
pour on the boiling water and stir until the jelly is dis- 
solved, then add the wine and set aside to congeal.— Mrs. 
Clarendon Gould, Baltimore. 

Charlotte Russe. — One-fourth of a tumbler of Nelson's 
gelatine ; cover this with morning's milk and leave to dis- 
solve; 1 pint of cream, whites of 5 eggs. Whip the cream 
after it has been sweetened and flavored with sherry or 







• 




fC- 



WC 



MRS. DANIEL NORWOOD SPEER, 
Member Committee on Agriculture and Horticulture. 



Chafing Dish Recipes. 85 

vanilla. Have the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, gradually 
adding cream to the whites until all has been used. Then 
strain into this the gelatine and milk. A coffee strainer is best 
to use. Stir this in thoroughly. Set the gelatine on the back 
of the stove to thoroughly melt while the other work goes 
on. It should be cooled before using, until not warmer 
than new milk. — Mrs. Margaret Newman, Atlanta. 

Pineapple Charlotte.— One quart of whipped cream, % of 
a box of gelatine in 1 pint of sweet milk, IY2 cups of sugar, 
beaten with yolks of 6 eggs. Beat the whites of eggs very 
light. Stir all together and place on stove, letting it come 
to the boiling point. Then remove and place on ice. As it 
begins to congeal, add the whipped cream and 1 can of 
grated pineapple, draining off the syrup. A little grated 
cocoanut is an addition. Flavor with a little wine or 
vanilla.— Mrs. M. G. Kent, Selma, Ala. 

Velvet Cream.— Dissolve 1 package of gelatine in cold 
water. Add 1 quart boiling water, juice of 8 lemons and 2 
cups of pulverized or granulated sugar. Put on stove V2 
gallon of fresh sweet milk and when just to a boil take off 
and add the white of 1 egg, beaten to a stiff froth and 
sweeten to taste. Put this compound of milk, etc., in 
fieezer. Add gelatine solution and finish freezing process. — 
Mrs. J. T. Clark, La Grange, Ga. 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 

How to Use a Chafing Dish.— When the dish is placed on 
the table, either before the host or hostess as the occasion 
may demand, have all the necessary materials. Butter may 
be made into balls, each ball representing 1 ounce. These 



86 Chafing Dish Recipes. 

arrange in a pretty dish on the right. If cream is to be 
used, measure and put in a little pitcher on the left. Bottles 
containing sauces and catsups or wine, should also be 
placed on the left, as well as large materials, such as lob- 
sters and cheese. This saves much time and confusion. See 
that the lamp is filled and matches are at hand before being 
seated. When recipe calls for butter and flour, rub them 
together and put in a dish before serving them. If butter is 
to be browned, put it in dish first, then have the flour in a 
pretty bowl to be added later. Use for stirring a long- 
handled, polished wooden spoon. This will enable you to 
work easily and quietly. If you use a light metal dish, it 
becomes necessary at times to use the hot water pan ; but 
with a heavy silver dish, this is unnecessary. — Mrs. Fred- 
erick F. Lyden, Baltimore, Md. 

Quick Curry of Oysters.— Drain 25 fat oysters, put them 
in a bowl on a saucer at left, have a clove of garlic and a 
tablespoon of chopped pepper. Put into the dish 2 table- 
spoons of butter. When hot, not brown, add oysters. 
Sprinkle over 1 teaspoon curry, pepper and salt. Rub the 
spoon with the garlic and stir until boiling. Serve from 
dish.— Mrs. Frederick F. Lyden, Baltimore, Md. 

Welsh Rarebit.— Two tablespoons of butter, 2 of flour, y 2 
pound of grated cheese, V& teaspoon of salt, *4 of red pep- 
per, 14 of mustard, 1 cup of cream, % teacup of ale or beer. 
Melt the butter in your chafing dish, add the flour gradu- 
ually, then the cream and seasoning, stirring the cheese in 
last. — Miss Belle Newman, Atlanta. 

Oysters Cooked at Table.— Use a chafing dish. Have the 
oysters carefully freed from all bits of shell. Put into the 



Chafing Dish Recipes. 87 

dish for a pint of oysters, 2 heaping tablespoons of butter, 
a dust of cayenne and the oysters. No salt is to be added 
unless the butter is very fresh. Stir the oysters until their 
edges begin to curl and then put out the lamp and serve 
them.— Mrs. John Bratton, Atlanta. 

Oyster Stew.— In a chafing dish put 1 pint of milk, 1 ta- 
blespoon butter, salt, black pepper and a small piece red 
pepper. Let this stew and, while cooking, cut up small into 
it 1 bunch of celery. After this has stewed for about five 
minutes, put in 1 pint of oysters, dipping them up with a 
fork, so as not to get too much of the oyster liquor in the 
dish. Replace the cover and let them stew for about two 
minutes, then add 1 wineglass of sherry or Madeira wine 
and serve at once. Oysters must be opened raw.— Mrs. 
J. J. Bond, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

Scrambled Eggs with Mushrooms.— Put 1 tablespoon of 
butter in chafing dish ; when melted, add y 2 can of mush- 
rooms drained from their liquor and cut in pieces. Let 
them cook until thoroughly heated. Turn in 5 eggs beaten 
lightly without separating, and season with salt and pep- 
per. As soon as they begin to foam, stir as for scrambled 
eggs until sufficiently cooked. Serve on buttered toast.— 
Mrs. Sarah Grant Jackson, Atlanta. 

Anchovy Toast Eggs.— Beat 5 eggs slightly, add y 2 tea- 
spoon of salt, y 2 teaspoon of pepper, and y 2 cup of cream or 
milk. Put a heaping tablespoon of butter in the chafing 
dish, and when melted, add the mixture. Stir until the eggs 
are creamy. Spread slices of toast thickly with anchovy 
paste. Arrange on a platter and pour over them the scram- 
bled eggs. If the crust is cut from the bread before toast- 



88 Chafing Dish Recipes. 

ing, and slices cut in squares, it has a daintier appearance.— 
Miss Sue Harwood, Marietta, Ga. 

Deviled Tomatoes.— Cream 2 tablespoons of butter, add 1 
level teaspoon of powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon of dry mus- 
tard, salt spoon of salt. Add Vi of a salt spoon of white or 
cayenne pepper. Mash the yolk of 1 hard-boiled egg and 
add also 1 raw egg beaten slightly. Add slowly IY2 table- 
spoons of hot vinegar and cook until it thickens. Remove 
the skins from 3 tomatoes and cut in thick slices. Season 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and cook brown — 
Mrs. Clifford Anderson, Atlanta. 

Oyster Rarebit. — Clean and remove the muscle from V2 
pint of oysters. Parboil them in a chafing dish in their own 
liquor until the edges curl and serve in a hot bowl. Put 1 
tablespoon of butter, V2 pound of cheese (broken in bits), 1 
salt spoon each of salt and mustard, and a few grains of 
cayenne into the chafing dish. While the cheese is melting, 
beat two eggs slightly and add them to the liquor. Mix 
this gradually with the melted cheese. Add the oysters and 
turn at once on the hot toast.— Miss Marion May, Atlanta. 

Belle vue Stew. — One quart oysters, 1 cup oyster crackers 
crumbled, not mashed, 1 teacup sherry wine, 1 heaping 
saucer chopped celery, 1 tablespoon Worcester sauce, 1 gen- 
erous tablespoon butter, pepper and salt to taste and a 
squeeze of lemon juice. Put oysters in chafing dish, cover 
and let them get hot, then add butter. After butter is 
melted, add other seasonings, putting in the wine just as it 
is ready to be served.— Miss Isa U. Glenn, Atlanta. 



Chafing Dish Recipes. 89 

Welsh Rarebit. — One-fourth pound of rich cream cheese, 
34 cup cream or milk, 1 teaspoon of mustard, V2 teaspoon 
of salt, a few grains of cayenne, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon of but- 
ter, 4 slices of toast. Break the cheese in small pieces, or if 
hard, grate it. Put it with milk in a double boiler. Toast 
the bread and keep it hot. Mix the mustard, salt and pep- 
per. Add the egg and beat well. When the cheese is melted, 
stir in the egg and butter, and cook two minutes, or until it 
thickens a little, but do not let it curdle. Pour it over the 
toast. May use ale instead of cream. — Miss Isabel Roach, 
Atlanta. 

Chafing" Dish Mushrooms.— Stir 1 large spoon of flour 
and another of butter in a stew pan together until thor- 
oughly cooked. Open the can of mushrooms, and add V2 
cup of the liquor with 1 cup of stock to the stew pan. Let 
it boil five minutes, seasoning with salt to taste and cayenne 
pepper. Then drain the mushrooms from the remainder of 
the liquor, empty into the stew pan, and cook until tender, 
about ten minutes. This makes an accompaniment to 
meat, or poured over toast. — Miss Laura Adair, Atlanta. 

Stewed Oysters. — One quart oysters, 2 tablespoons but- 
ter, y 2 pint cream, yolks of 2 eggs, teaspoon salt, pinch of 
cayenne pepper. Melt the butter in chafing dish over boil- 
ing water, stirring constantly. Beat together the yolks of 
the eggs and the cream, and add gradually, stirring all the 
time. As soon as it is thoroughly mixed, turn in the oysters 
and cook until plump. — Mrs. Julian Field, Atlanta. 

Chicken Terrapin.— Put in the chafing dish the dark part 
of a turkey or chicken or goose, cut in, small pieces, with 34 



90 Frozen Desserts. 

pint of cream or stock, and when it comes to a boil, stir in 
the following mixture: 2 tablespoons of butter, rubbed into 
a smooth paste with 1 tablespoon of flour and the yolks of 
3 eggs and teaspoon of dry mustard, a little cayenne and 
salt mixed with a little cream or stock. Let simmer a few 
minutes (not boil) and then when ready to serve, stir in 1 
wineglass of Madeira or sherry wine. — Mrs. Kate Grambling 
Hardin, Atlanta. 

Bellevue Stew.— Three tablespoons of butter, 2 cups of 
celery, dried, 1 cup of cream, 2 tablespoons of cracker dust, 
salt, pepper to taste, 1 pint of oysters. Stew celery in butter 
until tender, add remaining ingredients, and serve as soon 
as oysters curl. — Mrs. Bertie Crew Inman, Atlanta. 

Terrapin Stew.— Boil your terrapin tender, pick from 
it all the bones, and place the meat in a chafing dish. 
Add salt, allspice, pepper, mace and nutmeg to your taste. 
To five terrapins put 3 good tablespoons of butter, the 
yolks of ten hard-boiled eggs and work them together. 
When that has thickened, add 5 wineglasses cream. Boil the 
whole fifteen minutes, and then add 3 wineglasses of sherry 
or Madeira wine.— Mrs. A. C. Wylly, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 

Maryland Ice Cream.— To each pint of milk, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
of sugar, 1 tablespoon of flour. Let come to a boil, then 
stir in the beaten eggs, sugar and flour. Let boil twenty 
minutes. When cold, put in 1 pint of cream after it is 
churned. Flavor to taste. I often vary this cream by the 
addition of V^ pound of candied cherries. — Mrs. Annie Wil- 
son Lyden, Baltimore, Md. 



Frozen Desserts. 91 

Fig" Sherbet.— Three or four quarts of figs, mashed and 
sweetened, 1 quart lemonade. Freeze. — Mrs. S. E. Farley, 
Montgomery, Ala. 

Vanilla Ice Cream.— One quart of cream, % pound of 
granulated sugar, 1 quart milk, whites of 2 eggs, nearly 
1 tablespoon vanilla. Beat the eggs light in a bowl, then 
add the cream, beat together, then add milk, sugar and va- 
nilla, and freeze. The faster the freezer is turned at first or 
all through the process, the smoother the ice cream will be. — 
Mrs. E. R. L. Gould, Baltimore, Md. 

Burnt Almond Cream.— Half gallon thick cream, 1 pint 
sherry, 1 pound of the thoroughly pulverized burnt almonds, 
sweeten to taste and freeze. — Miss Julia Collier, Atlanta. 

Caramel Ice Cream.— Put 4 ounces of granulated sugar in 
an iron frying pan, and stir over the fire until the sugar 
melts, turns brown, boils and smokes. Have ready 1 pint 
of milk, turn the burnt sugar into this, stir over the fire 
one minute and stand away to cool. When cold, add V2 
pound of sugar, 1 quart of cream and 1 tablespoon of va- 
nilla. Mix well and freeze. When frozen, remove the 
dasher, stir into the cream 1 pint of whipped cream. Re- 
pack, cover and let stand for two hours to ripen. This will 
serve twelve persons.— Mrs. T. R. Mills, Griffin, Ga. 

Macaroon Ice Cream.— One pint milk, 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup 
flour, scant, 2 eggs, 1 quart cream, % dozen macaroons, 3 
tablespoons of wine. Let the wine come to a boil, beat the 
flour, sugar and eggs together, and stir into the milk. Cook 
twenty minutes, stirring often. Set away to cool, after 
beating it in the air about ten minutes. Brown the maca- 



92 Frozen Desserts. 

roons in the oven, roll into crumbs; when cold, add with 
wine and cream to the thick mixture.— Mrs. John Millis, 
Washington, D. C. 

Lemon Sherbet.— Half gallon cream, l 1 /^ quarts cold wa- 
ter, V2 dozen lemons, IV2 pounds sugar; press juice from 
lemons, pour a little boiling water, let stand a few minutes, 
press out, let cool, mix and freeze. — Miss Sallie F.Hunnicutt, 
Atlanta. 

Orange Souffle. — Put 2 cups of granulated sugar and lcup 
of water in a saucepan over the fire, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved. Then let it boil without stirring until the *yrup 
spins a thread. Add 1 pint of- orange juice and the juice of 
1 lemon. Scald 1 cup of cream, add the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, stir them into the scalded cream. Take from the fire, 
cool and mix with the syrup. Stand away to cool and when 
thoroughly chilled, add the remaining cup of cream, 
whipped. Flavor with !/2 a teaspoon of vanilla. Color 
delicately with yellow-colored paste. Turn into the freezer 
and freeze as a sherbet. Serve in glasses. — Miss Helen 
Louise Johnson, Philadelphia, in Table Talk. 

Almond Bavarian Cream.— Custard: Four eggs, slightly 
beaten, 1 cup of sugar, 1 pint of milk. Soakgelatine (^ box) 
four hours if possible, drain water off and pour boiling cus- 
tard on. Strain this and flavor with about 10 drops of bit- 
ter almond. Beat cream (1 quart) well, put over colander 
and drain. Place this cream in a pan over ice and sprinkle a 
cup of pulverized sugar and *4 pound of grated almonds. 
Add custard gradually and fold in. Put in molds, and 
place on ice immediately. — Miss Mattie Smith, Griffin, Ga. 



Frozen Desserts. 93 

Water Icing*.— Three-fourths pound of pulverized sugar, 
juice of 1 lemon or orange and if too stiff, a few drops of 
water. This needs no cooking.— Miss Louise Speer, Atlanta. 

Nesselrode Pudding 1 .— One pound of large chestnuts, 1 
pound of rich boiled chestnuts, 1 cup of sweet cream, 2 
ounces of citron, 2 ounces of raisins, 2 ounces of stewed 
pineapple, V2 cup of maraschino, 1 teaspoon of vanilla ex- 
tract, pinch of salt in the chestnut pulp. Slit shells of 
the chestnuts, boil them half an hour. Peel clean and pound 
the nuts to a pulp and rub through a sieve, moistening with 
cream. Then mix it with the boiled custard. Freeze this 
mixture, and when Arm, whip the cup of cream and stir it in 
and freeze again. Then add the citron, cut in shreds, the 
stewed or candied pineapple, raisins, maraschino, and va- 
nilla extract. Beat up and freeze again. Either serve in ice 
cream plates from the freezer or pack in a mold, and when 
well frozen, send to table in form. Turn out of mold in 
folded napkin on a dish. — Mrs. P. H. Snook, Atlanta. 

Caramel Ice Cream.— Two cups of sugar, 2 eggs, 3 tea- 
spoons of flour, 1 quart of milk, 1 pint of cream. Beat 
eggs, flour and 1 cup of sugar together until light. Put 
milk on fire; when hot, add eggs to it, and cook like custard. 
Take the other cup of sugar, put in a frying pan without wa- 
ter and caramel. When it is the color of syrup (a deep straw 
color), pour into custard. Whip the pint of cream. When 
custard is cold, mix cream with it and freeze. — Mrs. John W. 
Butt, Augusta, Ga. 

Blackberry Water Ice.— (Delicious.) Let 2 quarts berries 
boil in % quart of water until all flavor and juice is ex- 



94 Frozen Desserts. 

tracted from fruit. Strain, and when cold, make very sweet 
(or to taste), add juice of 1 lemon.— Miss Isabella Solo- 
mons, Savannah, Ga. 

Strawberry Water lee.— Mash 2 quarts berry pulp 
through sieve until seeds are left quite dry. Make thick 
syrup by boiling 1 pound sugar with V£ pint water until 
quite clear, adding when nearly cold to juice of berries. 
Lastly, add juice of 2 oranges or lemons. If this quantity 
of sugar does not make sufficiently sweet for general taste, 
more may be added before freezing.— Miss Rebecca Minis, 
Savannah, Ga. 

Orange Sherbet.— One tablespoon gelatine, y 2 cup cold wa- 
ter, V2 cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cold water, juice 
of 6 oranges and 1 lemon. Soak gelatine in V2 cup of cold 
water, add the boiling water when dissolved. Add the 
sugar, the other cup of cold water and the fruit juice. When 
sugar is dissolved, strain and freeze. When it commences 
to freeze, stir into it the well-beaten whites of 2 eggs. A 
pretty addition is a little orange peel shaved very thin and 
cut in tiny pieces, added with the eggs. It looks well in the 
sherbet, when served.— Mrs. Louis Gholstin, Atlanta. 

Apricot Ice.— One can of apricots, 1 lemon, y 2 box gelatine, 
sugar to taste, 1 pint hot water. Take the stones out of 
the apricots and mash them through a colander. Pour the 
hot water over the gelatine, and when cold, mix with the 
fruit. Add the lemon juice and sweeten to taste. Freeze 
until the consistency of mush. Put in a mold and keep in 
salt and ice two hours before using.— Mrs. Edmund Tyler, 
Atlanta. 



Frozen Desserts. 95 

Edelweiss Cream.— Half pint milk, y 2 cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 
1 egg, 1 pint cream, *4 cup sherry wine,^ cup seeded raisins, 
V2 cup preserved ginger, cut line. When the milk has boiled , add 
cup sugar and the flour dissolved in a little cold milk. Let 
scald ten minutes, then add the eggs, well beaten. Boil two 
minutes longer. Let cool, then add % cup sugar, the cream 
and sherry. Beat all well with egg- whip. Freeze ten min- 
utes, and add raisins and ginger. Then freeze as ice cream. 
—Mrs. John W. Grant, Atlanta. 

Lemon Sherbet. — Two quarts milk, 5 lemons, 1 pound 
and a little over of sugar, whites of 6 eggs, pint rich cream. 
Boil milk, pour while hot over the sugar, grated peel of 
lemon, juice of lemon; add cream and whites of eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth, when your milk has become very cold in the 
churn. — Mrs. T. J. Harwell, LaGrange, Ga. 

Strawberry Ice Cream.— Use equal quantities of cream and 
strawberries. Run the berries through a sieve, then strain 
through a thin cloth. Sweeten to taste. Whip the cream, mix 
with strawberries and freeze. — Mrs. William Yenable, Atlanta. 

Strawberry Cream.— Take 1 quart of strawberries, crush, 
strain and set away until needed. Take 2 cups of sugar dis- 
solved in as little water as needed ; bring to a boil, and set 
off to cool. When quite cool, pour into a quart of good 
cream, flavored with vanilla. Whip or churn with sylla- 
bub churn until about a pint of stiff cream can be taken off 
and set away in refrigerator to drain. Into the remainder 
of the cream, pour the strawberry juice and freeze in an ice 
cream freezer. When well frozen, line a gallon mold for an 
inch in thickness with this frozen cream. Fill the center 



96 Frozen Desserts. 

with the whipped cream. Cover the cream with a white 
paper, cut to fit, and press the cover to the mold tightly 
on, drawing a strip of buttered cloth 1 inch wide twice 
tightly around the mold where its top is fitted on. Pack the 
mold in salt and ice for several hours before needed, as it 
takes some time to freeze hard. Turn it out on a flat dish, 
garnish with strawberry leaves and clusters of the fresh 
fruit. This is a beautiful and elegant dessert. If straw- 
berries are out of season, any other fruit may be substituted, 
or chocolate, as the cream maybe colored with fruit coloring 
after the cream for the center is taken off.— Mrs. William J. 
Northen, Atlanta. 

Fruit Delicacy.— Six well-flavored apples grated, 8 bananas 
grated, 1 can of grated pineapple, 1 dozen oranges, juice 
and pulp. Mix all together and sweeten to taste with pulver- 
ized sugar. Use juicy oranges. Prepare the orange cups in 
this way : Cut off a small piece from the top, and scoop out 
with a spoon all the juice and pulp. Mix this with other 
fruit. Strip out the white skin from inside of orange until 
you have a transparent cup. Now lay each cup in a glass 
saucer with a green lemon leaf or orange leaf under it. Fill 
each cup with the mixture and serve with a teaspoon.— Mrs. 
Harry Jackson, Atlanta. 

Rennet Ice Cream.— Put 1 quart of sweet milk into a pan 
of boiling water until it gets lukewarm. Add 1 tablespoon of 
prepared rennet, 2 cups of sugar; beat well until it froths 
and is perfectly smooth. Season with lemon and vanilla. 
Add 1 quart of sweet cream well whipped . Whip all together 
with 1 egg. Whip until perfectly smooth, then freeze.— Mrs. 
Jake Burrus, Columbus, Ga. 



Frozen Desserts. 97 

Frozen Pudding.— Two cups of sugar, 2 eggs, 3 even table 
spoons of gelatine, 3 cups of milk, 1 quart cream , 4 tablespoons 
of wine, 1 pound of candied fruit. Soak the gelatine in enough 
water to cover until the water is absorbed. Put the milk on 
to boil, beat the eggs, flour and 1 cup sugar together, and 
stir into the boiling milk. Cook fifteen minutes, stirring often. 
Add the gelatine, cool; add the wine, 1 tablespoon of va- 
nilla. Add 1 cup sugar to the cream. Beat well and strain 
into the freezer. When half-frozen, add the fruit cut in 
small pieces. — Mrs. Henry L. Wilson, Atlanta. 

Peach Ice Cream.— Take soft ripe peaches ; to each quart, 
after being mashed, add 1 pint of cream and 1 pint of rich 
milk with Y2 ounce of gelatine dissolved and mixed in. 
Sweeten to taste, and freeze. — Miss Anne Speer, Atlanta. 

Neapolitan Mousse.— Put a 3-quart mold in a wooden 
pail, first lining the bottom of pail with fine ice and a thin layer 
of coarse salt. Pack the space between mold and pail 
solidly with fine ice and coarse salt, using 2 quarts of salt, 
and ice enough to fill space. The ingredients are 1 quart of 
milk, Ys of a box of gelatine, 1 teacup of sugar, 4 table- 
spoons of sherry wine, Y2 pound of candied cherries. Pour 
over the gelatine % of a cup of cold water, and let stand 
for two hours. Whip the cream first, putting in sugar and 
wine, then drain through a sieve, in order to insure no liquid 
being left in it. Now pour Yz of a cup of hot water over the 
gelatine which has been standing. When it is thoroughly 
dissolved, pour it in the whipped cream (first letting it cool) 
and stir until it begins to thicken, then pour a portion into 
the mold (after wiping it out). Sprinkle a layer of cherries 
cut in halves, then put in more cream and cherries alternately 



98 Frozen Desserts. 

■until all material is used. Cover the mold, pack with ice, 
throw a wet blanket over the pail, and let stand three 
hours. When served, dip mold into cold water, turn out 
on a flat dish.— Mrs. Dr. G. G. Roy, Atlanta. 

Pineapple lee. — Two small cans pineapple, 2 lemons, 
3 cups sugar, half gallon boiling water, whites of 2 
eggs well beaten. Mix thoroughly and freeze. — Mrs. Col. 
Garth, Columbus, Miss. 

Raspberry Water lee.— Boil 2 cups of water with 4 cups 
of sugar for 20 minutes. When taken from the fire, add the 
juice of 2 lemons and 3 cups of raspberry juice. As soon as 
cool, freeze.— Mrs. E. G. Thomas, Atlanta. 

Strawberry Sherbet. — Mix with a pint of preserved ot 
fresh strawberry juice, V2 cup of orange juice, *4 cup of 
lemon juice, ^ cup of sherry and the juice from a can of 
pineapple. Sweeten to taste and let stand for 2 hours if 
possible. Then mix with 1 quart of ice water and serve. 
Omit the sherry if desired. Fruit beverages are the most 
delightful drinks for hot weather, and are easily made, for 
they are but mixtures of different fruit juices, having the 
desired one predominate. — Mrs. W. P. Pattillo, Atlanta. 

Ginger Sherbet.— Make a lemon water ice and freeze. 
Cut 4 ounces of preserved ginger into very small pieces, add- 
ing to it 2 tablespoons of the ginger syrup. Stir into the 
frozen ice, and pack.— Miss Irene Frazier, Inman Park. 

Iced Cocoa. — To every pint of cocoa, made in the usual 
manner, add V2 cup of whipped cream. Beat it into 
the cocoa, sweeten to taste and let stand until cool. Serve 



Frozen Desserts. 99 

in glasses partly filled with chipped ice.— Mrs. John Cowles, 
Athens, Ga. 

Frozen Mint.— Make a plain lemon water ice, and when 
frozen very hard, add, stirring all the while, a mint julep 
made as follows: Bruise several tender sprigs of mint in 
2 or 3 tablespoons of water sweetened with 1 lump of sugar ; 
add lcup of brandy and 1 of sherry; let it stand 10 minutes 
and strain. When the julep has been added to the water ice, 
pack the freezer and allow the mint to stand some hours to 
ripen before serving.— Mrs. J as. B. Conyers, Carters ville, Ga. 

Frozen Cherries.— Take a quart can of cherries, using as red 
fruit as you can find, and mix with 1 pound of granulated 
sugar; stir until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, add 
the juice from 1 can of pineapple, and 1 pint of water. Mix 
well; freeze as you do any frozen fruit. — Mrs. McDougald, 
Columbus, Ga. 

Nougat Ice Cream.— Shell and blanch y 2 cup of pista- 
chio nuts and ^4 cup of almonds. Chop very, very fine 
with y 2 cup of English walnuts. Make a rich vanilla 
cream, and when nearly frozen, beat in the nuts with a 
spoon, adding a few drops of pistachio extract. — Miss Car- 
oline Holt, Washington, D. C. 

Raspberry Water lee.— Boil 2 cups of water with 4 cups 
of sugar for 20 minutes. When taken from the fire, add the 
juice of 2 lemons and 3 cups of raspberry juice. As soon as 
cool, freeze. — Mrs. Benjamin H. Hill, Sr., Atlanta. 

Strawberry Ice.— Crush 1 quart of strawberries ; add to 
them 1 cup of sugar. Let stand 1 hour. Boil 1 cup of 
sugar with 1 quart of water for 20 minutes ; add to the 



100 Confectionery. 

strawberries, with the juice of 2 lemons and strain through 
a sieve. When cool, freeze. — Mrs. A. P. Thompson, Marys- 
ville, Tenn. 

Orange Water Ice.— Boil 1 pound of sugar with 1 quart 
of water for 15 minutes; take from the fire, add 1 pint of 
orange juice and the juice of 3 lemons. When cool, strain 
and freeze.— Miss Nellie Wright, Atlanta. 

Peach Water Ice. — Cut 8 good-sized, very ripe peaches 
in pieces. Mash them and add 1 cup of sugar; add the juice 
of 3 lemons mixed with % of a cup of sugar. Let stand 20 
minutes. Ad^d 1 quart of water, beat, strain and freeze. 



CONFECTIONERY. 



Creole Kisses. — Beat together 1 pound pulverized sugar, 
whites of 6 eggs (not beaten), 1 teaspoon of vanilla, for 
15 minutes, and then add 1 teaspoon of cream tartar, 
and beat another 15 minutes, add one cup of chopped 
nuts (any kind), drop on paper (not buttered) and bake a 
light brown. — Miss Lillie Lochrane, Atlanta. 

Chocolate Cream Squares.— Into a buttered tin that is 1 
inch deep (square is best) pour a layer of chocolate and then 
1 of the cream twice as thick as the chocolate and then 1 of 
the chocolate. Let each layer cool before adding the next. 
When all are hard cut into squares with a buttered knife. 
For Making the Chocolate : To 2 squares of Baker's choco- 
late chipped fine, add 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar 
and 1 of flour; melt together in an oatmeal cooker. When 
cooked so that it hardens on a cold plate it is ready for use. 
Flavor with a little vanilla. For the cream: 3 cups of 




MRS. SALOUEL McKINLEY BUSSEY, 
Secretary Committee on Agriculture and Horticulture. 



Confectionery. 101 

granulated sugar and 15 tablespoons milk. Boil over a 
quick fire, without burning, 5 minutes. When done stir until 
it is creamy. One-third this amount makes a nice icing for 
cake. — Miss Rebie Lowe, Atlanta. 

Candied Figs.— Cook the figs in thin syrup until clear. 
Then put in colander and drain. Have ready a thick syrup 
made of best white confectioners' sugar. Take V2 dozen figs at 
time and dip in the syrup, laying on a wire strainer to drain 
of surplus syrup. Continue until all have been dipped a half 
dozen times, when all will be found to be nicely candied, 
quite equal in fact to anything from the confectioner. 
Peaches and grapes are also very nice.— Mrs. Virgie Moon, 
Hammond, La. 

Sugared Pecans. — Two cups of pecans, 4 cups of sugar 
teaspoon of butter. Boil the sugar after dissolving ; add 
the butter until it ropes, then remove from the fire and 
stir briskly until it becomes creamy, when the pecans are 
added. Pour upon a buttered dish; when cool cut into 
squares.— Mrs. M. A. Caldwell, Houston, Texas. 

Nut Taffy.— One pint molasses, V2 pint sugar, y 2 tablespoon 
butter. When done beat in V2 teaspoon soda and 1 quart 
of walnuts or hickory nuts. — Mrs. C. O. Tyner, Atlanta. 

Chocolate Fudges.— One-fourth cake of Baker's chocolate, 
2 cups of granulated sugar, 1 cup of cream or rich milk, butter 
size of an egg. Boil ; stir constantly. Try it by dropping in cold 
water; if it hardens remove from the fire. Add 1 teaspoon 
of vanilla. Stir it hard for a few minutes and pour in 

buttered tins.— Mrs. F. M. Scott, Atlanta. 

7 



102 Confectionery, 

ChocoJate Caramels. — Two pounds sugar, butter *4 pound, 
chocolate Y2 cake, milk a large cup, vanilla a table- 
spoon. Let this stand on the back of the stove for half 
an hour, then put it on the front and boil hard for 10 
minutes, stirring well; put in vanilla and boil 5 minutes 
longer. Have pan well buttered, pour in quickly. Mark off 
with bright knife. — Mrs. Frank Brochett, Washington, D. C. 

Cream Candy. — Four cups sugar, 2 o f water. 1 tablespoon 
of vinegar. Just before it is done add l 1 /^ tablespoon of 
butter. Pull when nearly cold.— Mrs. Abner Camp, Grant- 
ville, Ga. 

Caramel Candy. — Three cups of brown sugar,l cup of syrup, 
1 cup of cream or milk and y% cup of butter. When nearly 
done stir constantly. When done pour over marble and cut in 
blocks.— Miss Katie Stocking, Atlanta. 

French Candy. — For 1 measure take 1 cup of granulated 
sugar and moisten well with cold water; into it stir % tea- 
spoon of corn starch. Let it simmer till a spoonful will 
work with the ringers, when cooled in a saucer. Take off 
the fire and stir till cool ; it is now ready for the nuts and 
fruit. Press the raisins open, make little balls of the fondant 
and put in ; partly close the raisin and lay aside. Mash the 
nuts, make little rolls of the fondant and roll through the 
nuts. Open figs, make balls of the fondant, press into a 
shapely form and close the fig partly over it. Have grated 
cocoanut and make the fondant round; sprinkle with 
the cocoanut and slightly flatten. The fondant can be colored 
with chocolate and pink cake coloring, and flavored with 
anything desired. The more the fondant is stirred and 
worked, the nicer it is. Any one with deft fingers can make 



Confectionery. 103 

this candy and it is better than any that is sold.— Miss 
Nellie McLendon, Atlanta. 

Peanut Brittle.— One pound granulated sugar, 1 quart pea- 
nuts, butter size walnut, pinch of soda, vanilla to taste. Put 
sugar in skillet with a little water to keep from burning. Let 
melt till it looks like molasses, put in soda and vanilla. Pour 
over peanuts, which are put in buttered pans. Thinner 
the better. Let cool.— Mrs. Lyden Meekins, Baltimore, Md. 

Marshmallows,— Dissolve V2 pound white gum arabic in 1 
pint of water, strain Y2 pound fine sugar ; place over fire, 
stirring constantly until syrup is dissolved, and of the con- 
sistency of honey. Add gradually the whites of 4 eggs, well 
beaten. Stir until mixture becomes thin and does not ad- 
here to finger. Flavor to taste ; pour into a tin dish with 
powdered starch, and when cool, cut into small squares. — 
Miss Aline Stocking, Atlanta. 

Peppermint Drops,— One cup of sugar, crushed fine and 
just moistened with boiling water, then boiled 5 minutes; 
then take from the fire and add cream of tartar the size of 
a pea; mix well and add 4 or 5 drops of oil of peppermint. 
Beat briskly until the mixture whitens. Then drop quickly 
upon white paper. Have the cream of tartar and oil of 
peppermint measured while the sugar is boiling. If it sugars 
before it is all dropped, add a little water and boil a minute 
or two. — Miss Emily English, Atlanta. 

Grilled Almonds.— Blanch a cup of almonds ; dry them 
thoroughly. Boil a cup of sugar and V± cup of water till 
it "hairs." Then throw in the almonds ; let them fry, as it 
were, in this syrup, stirring them occasionally. Will turn a 



104 Beverages. 

yellow brown before the sugar changes color; do not wait 
an instant after this occurs or they will lose flavor; remove 
from the fire, and stir them until the syrup has turned back 
to sugar and clings to the nuts. (These are popular in 
France — used between courses alternating with salted 
almonds.)— Miss Mary Bert Howard, Atlanta. 

Porceline Candy.— Two cups brown sugar, y* cup of wa- 
ter ; let it boil enough to dissolve. Then add a teacup of milk 
and IV2 cups of hickory, or any other kind of nuts, and boil, 
stirring all the time. To tell when it is done, take out a 
little and stir; if it turns to sugar it is done enough. 
Pour in buttered pans and cut into squares just before it 
gets cold. — Miss Mary Frank Winship, Inman Park. 



BEVERAGES. 



Pineappleade. — Pare and slice some very ripe pineapples ; 
then cut the slices into small pieces. Put them with all of 
their juice into a large pitcher and sprinkle among them 
plenty of powdered white sugar. Pour on boiling water, 
allowing a small half pint to each pineapple. Cover the 
pitcher and let it stand until quite cool, occasionally press- 
ing down the pineapple with a spoon. Then set the pitcher 
for awhile in ice. Lastly strain the infusion into another 
vessel and transfer it to tumbler, putting into each glass 
some more sugar and a bit of ice. This beverage will be 
found delicious.— Mrs. Robert J. Lowry, Atlanta. 

Royal Punch.— Two quarts black tea, 2 quarts claret, 1 
quart sherry, 1 pint of California brandy, 1/2 pint of Santa 
Cruz rum, rind of 3 lemons, juice of 3 lemons. Sweeten and 



Confectionery. 105 

let stand 4- hours. When ready to drink, put in a can each of 
pineapple, strawberries, cherries and oranges. Add 3 quarts 
of champagne the last thing or 4 bottles of Rhine wine and 
2 of Apollonaris water. These ingredients will make punch 
enough for 50 people. Another nice and much less expensive 
punch is as follows: To 1 bottle of Chateau Masgaux 
(Francois Cuzol & Fils Bordeau) add an after-dinner coffee 
cup of cherry cordial, superior quality, the juice and fine 
grating of 4 large lemons, about a pint of strawberries, and 
a cup of sugar, perhaps a little more. Fill the cups with 
shaved ice and pour the punch over it undiluted.— Mrs. Hat- 
tie Gould Jefferies, Augusta, Ga. 

Roman Punch. — One quart weak tea, 1 pint sugar or more 
to taste, 1 pint claret, 2 tablespoons of rum, 1 pound 
glaced cherries, grated rind and juice of 3 lemons. Add the 
rum and cherries when the others are nearly half-frozen. 
Serve with whipped cream on top.— Mrs. Leonard Phinizy, 
Augusta, Ga. 

Blackberry Cordial.— One gallon berries, V/ 2 quarts good 
spirits, 2Y2 pounds sugar, V 2 ounce cloves, Y2 ounce cinna- 
mon. Let it stand 48 hours, then strain and bottle. Set it 
away 4 weeks, pour off and bottle again.— Mrs. J. W. Durr, 
Montgomery, Ala. 

Blackberry Wine.— To each gallon of unbruised berries add 
1 gallon of water. Allow them to stand 30 hours, remove 
whatever is on top; strain through a cloth; add 2Y2 pounds 
of good sugar to each gallon. Thoroughly dissolve and 
strain. Pour into vessels, allowing Yz vacuum for fermenta- 
tion. Into 3-gallon jug put only 2 gallons. Close tightly 



106 Beverages. 

and let stand until December, then open and pour off into 
bottles.— Mrs. A. A. Harman, Atlanta. 

Fruit Punch. — The juice of 1 dozen lemons, 2 pineapples 
or 2 cans of same, 1 pint of strawberry syrup, 1 pint of 
orange flower syrup. Place all in the punch bowl with a 
large lump of ice, then pour in, after you have put in enough 
sugar to suit, 4 bottles of Apollonaris water. (This is a 
very delicious drink.)— Mrs. Cornelia C. Black, Deerland 
Park. 

Brandy Peaches.— Take fine English peaches, scrub with a 
cloth dipped in cold water until all furze is removed, then 
prick to the stone in about a dozen places with a large 
needle. Drop in a kettle of cold water, put on the fire until 
water comes to a boil. Be sure the peaches don't boil. Take out 
with a perforated spoon, putting quickly between blankets, 
where they must strain for several hours. This will make 
them perfectly tender and yet firm. Then place in jars with 
layers of cut loaf sugar and pour over pure spirits or peach 
brandy. (Grandmother Barrett's Brandy Peaches.)— Mrs. 
Clark Howell, West End. 

Raspberry Shrub.— One quart of apple vinegar, 3 quarts 
of berries; let stand 1 day, then strain. Then add to each 
pint 1 pound of sugar ; skim it clear while boiling ; let boil V2 
hour. Put 1 wineglass brandy to each pint of shrub. When 
cold, bottle.— Miss Carrie Thompson, Washington, D. C. 

Chocolate. — One quart of milk put on to boil; when it 
gets to boiling point add *4 cake of chocolate; after it 
is melted (cut in small pieces and put in front of stove to 
dissolve), sweeten to taste. Boil all this for at least 30 min- 



Beverages. 107 

utes. Then add as you are ready to take up, yolk of 1 egg 
well beaten and 3 or 4 drops of vanilla. Stir constantly as 
you pour egg in ; do not let it cook any more. — Mrs. T. R. 
Mills, Griffin, Ga. 

Blackberry Wine.— To a peck of berries pour a quart of 
boiling water, let stand until cool. Strain through a coarse 
bag. Two and one-half pounds sugar to a gallon of juice. 
Put in a jug and let ferment until all black froth is thrown 
off. Keep a vessel to fill from ; fill every day for 12 or 14 
days. Pour off and add % pound sugar to a gallon of juice. 
Rinse jugs and put wine in again. Tie muslin cloth over the 
top, put in a cool place. Cork tight when done fermenting. 
Keep until old. — Mrs. Colin Frazier, Inman Park. 

Noyean Cordial.— One pint alcohol, 1 pint water, 
2 ounces bitter almonds pounded to a paste, 1 pound 
sugar, 1 pint of boiled milk, the peel of 1 lemon. Put in a 
pitcher, cover close. Stir every day for a w r eek and then 
filter. — Mrs. Edgar Thompson, Washington, D. C. 

Orange Cordial.— One quart alcohol, 1 quart water, the 
peel of 6 fresh oranges, removing as much of the inner rind 
as possible. Let it remain in a jug 3 months. Make a rich 
syrup and add to the contents of the jug after it has been 
strained. Bottle and cork. 

Five O'clock Tea.— Select the best variety of tea, accord- 
ing to taste, Japanese Ro3'al Garden being excellent. Boil 
your water quickly in a small kettle and pour over the 
leaves, allowing a teaspoon of tea to each cup. While 
the water is preparing, put a cube of sugar in each cup with 
a dessertspoon of fine old Medford rum and a slice of 



108 Beverages. 

lemon. Let this mixture stand until the tea is drawn 
sufficiently strong. Then pour in the hot tea and you have 
a beverage that is delicious. In the event of any especial 
occasion, lemon juice maybe used instead of the slicedlemon 
and the guest's initial cut out of the rind and allowed to 
float in the cup. — Mrs. Lollie Belle Wylie, Atlanta. 

Persian Rose Leaf Punch.— One bottle of champagne, 14 
blocks of loaf sugar, champagne glass of brandy, white 
wineglass of orange curacoa. Dissolve the sugar in a gill 
of boiling water, and when cool, add the brandy and cura- 
coa. Partly fill the glasses with shaved ice, pour the cham- 
pagne on the other liquors, stir well and fill the glasses at 
once. Add at once to each glass the leaves of 3 American 
Beauty roses. This is a most beautiful looking punch, and 
decidedly out of the ordinary. A frozen Turkish rose leaf 
punch is not so good to look upon, but, if anything, a nicer 
punch to serve. — Table Talk. 

Turkish Punch.— To the ordinary Roman punch, when 
frozen, add 1 can of preserved Turkish rose leaves. Stir 
them in with a spoon, and if the punch then seems too sweet, 
add lemon juice. The cans of rose leaves are small, but the 
flavor is very strong, and 1 can will be sufficient for the 
quantity of punch for 16 people.— Mrs. Clarendon Gould, 
Baltimore, Md. 

Reg'ent's Punch. — One pound of loaf sugar, or rock candy, 
1 large cup of strong black tea (made), 3 wineglasses 
of brandy, 3 wineglasses of rum, 1 bottle champagne, 
juice of 2 oranges, juice of 3 lemons, a large lump of ice.— 
Mrs. Capt. John L. Clem, Fort McPherson, Ga. 



Beverages. 109 

Raspberry Vinegar.— Soak 3 quarts red raspberries in 1 
quart vinegar for 24 hours. Strain and add 3 more quarts 
berries. Let this stand 24 hours — then strain. Put in 1 
cup sugar to every cup juice and boil twenty minutes. — 
Mrs. Richard Peters, Atlanta. 

Chocolate.— Six tablespoons of grated chocolate, 1 pint 
boiling water, 1 pint boiling milk, V2 cup sugar, a pinch of salt, 
a dessertspoon of corn starch. Put sugar, salt and dry choco- 
late together, dissolve gradually in little hot water; add milk 
and let it boil together 1 minute. Dissolve corn starch in 2 
tablespoons of milk reserved from the pint ; add to the boiling 
mixture and stir constantly until it all boils up. Serve with 
whipped cream. — Mrs. Charles Price, Salisbury, N. C. 

Spanish Cream.— Soak 14 box Knox's gelatine in cold water 
(cover it well) 15 minutes ; heat 1 pint of milk, and strain 
gelatine into it the first thing ; then beat the yolks of 2 eggs 
with 2 tablespoons sugar, and cook like boiled custard ; as 
soon as cooked, pour immediately into a pitcher, then add 
whites of eggs and flour. Pour into molds; serve with 
whipped cream. — Mrs. Arthur M. Tinker, North Adams> 
Mass. 

Ratifia. — Take 1 gallon of best brandy, 1 quart of Ma- 
deira wine, 1 quart of Flontignac wine, 1 pint of orange 
flower water, 3 pounds of best loaf sugar, 1 pint of rose 
water, 2 peach kernels, blanched. Keep in the sun for 5 
weeks, and bottle off. — Miss Mamie Boylston, Atlanta. 

Imperial Punch.— One bottle of claret, 1 bottle of soda 
water, 4 tablespoons of sugar, V± teaspoon of grated 
nutmeg, 1 liqueur glass of maraschino, about 1 pound ice, 



110 Beverages. 

3 or f 4s thin slices of cucumber with rind on. Put all the in- 
gredients into a bowl or pitcher, and mix well. — Mrs. J. D. 
Stocker, Atlanta. 

Balaklava Nectar.— (For a Party of Fifteen.) Thinly peel 
the rind of half a lemon, shred it fine, and put it in a punch 
bowl; add 2 tablespoons of sugar, and the juice of 2 
lemons, the half of a small cucumber sliced thin, with the 
peel on ; toss it up several times, then add 2 bottles of soda 
water, 2 of claret, 1 of champagne, stir well together with 
sufficient ice ; serve. 

Roman Punch.— Make a strong, sweet lemonade, using 
IMj dozen lemons; add 1 pint of claret, 1 quart of cham- 
pagne, Y2 box gelatine dissolved in water, strain, add whites 
of 3 eggs; then freeze.— Mrs. Georgia Sykes, Aberdeen, Miss. 

Corn Beer. — Boil 1 quart of corn until the grains crack, 
put the grains into a jug, and pour in 2 gallons of boiling 
water; do not use the water it was boiled in; add 1 quart 
of molasses, 1 handful of dried apples, 1 large spoonful of 
ginger; it will be ready for use in 2 or 3 days. If it is 
cool weather, set it in a warm place. You can use the same 
corn for several weeks ; splendid with hot ginger cakes. — 
Mrs. D: S. Porter, Flowery Branch, Ga. 

Tomato Wine.— Let the tomatoes be fully ripe; after 
washing well, let them stand 24 hours ; then strain, and to 
every quart of juice, add 1 pound of good sugar; let it fer- 
ment again, skimming frequently; when clear, bottle. To 
use this, sweeten a glass of water to the taste, and add the 
tomato wine until sufficiently acid.— Mrs. E. C. Merrill, 
Atlanta. 



Beverages. Ill 

Cherry Nectar.— To 4 pounds of the fruit, washed and 
picked (stone half the fruit), put 3 tumblers of white 
wine, or good apple vinegar; let it stand 4 days; strain 
through a cloth, and to a pint of juice, add a pound of loaf 
sugar; boil in a porcelain kettle a quarter of an hour; when 
cold, bottle and cork it; keep in a dry, cool place. To use, 
pour a tumbler half full of the nectar, add a few pieces of 
ice, fill with very cold water; a refreshing summer drink.— 
Mrs. Frank P. Rice, Atlanta. 

Pineapple Beer.— Take the rind of a pineapple, put it into 
about 2 quarts of water; cover it, and set it aside for 24 
hours; then sweeten to taste, bottle and cork ; put it in the 
sun for 5 or 6 hours.— Miss Sallie Elkin, Lancaster, Ky. 

Colonial Punch.— One quart of Madeira, 1 pint of brandy, 
2 quarts of champagne, 3 sherry glasses of Jamaica rum, 1 
pint of port; pour all the ingredients over 9 sliced oranges, 
except the champagne; sweeten, and set away in a covered 
vessel for 3 days; strain, add a large lump of ice to the 
punch bowl, and 15 minutes before serving, add the cham- 
pagne.— Mrs. Edward Barnes, Atlanta. 

Dripped Creole Coffee.— One tablespoon of ground 
coffee for each person to be served ; place in the dripper of 
the coffeepot, and add to it 1 tablespoon of cold water; 
let stand one hour; have water boiling, and drip slowly; not 
more than 1 tablespoon of water should be used at any 
time; drip % of a cup of coffee for each person, the other ^ 
to be boiled milk, into which pour the coffee, and let boil 3 
minutes; serve very hot. Proportions of brands of coffee: 
% Java, V3 Mocha.— Miss Daisy Hodgson, New Orleans. 



112 



Menus. 



MENUS. 


Breakfast 

Sliced Raw Tomatoes Chicken Terrapin 

Baked Potatoes Creamed 

Asparagus Omelet 

Pop-Overs Coffee 

Marinate the tomatoes and serve sliced 
on beds ©f watercress. Wash and drain 
the cress just before putting the tomatoes 
on it, that it may seem to have been just 
gathered; serve* with French dressing. 
Prepare the eggs, etc., beforehand and 
make the chicken terrapin in the chafing- 
dish on the table that it may be hot. Gar- 
nish with parsley and the whites of the 
eggs. Bake the potatoes ; when done scoop 
out the inside, beat up at once with scalded 
cream and a little melted butter, heap on 
a plate, touch lightly with the beaten yolk 
of an egg, brown in a quick oven and 
serve with the terrapin. Instead of the 
asparagus omelet, can be served a sweet 
omelet, serving it as a course by itself. 

Mrs. G' orge Traylor, Atlanta. 


Ladies' Luncheon 

Bouillon 

Oyster Coquille 

Snowflake Crackers 

Champagne Ris de Veau Patties 

Cream Sauce 

Celery Salad Ginger Ice 

Quail on Toast Saratoga Chips 

Claret Wine 

Chicken Salad Beaten Biscuits 

Olives 

Salted Almonds 

Jellied Tangerines with Whipped Cream 

and Almond Cream Cakes 

Cerise Menier Pink Grapes 

Coffee 

3frs.S. B. Hudson, Columbus, Miss. 


Ladies' Luncheon 

Strawberries, Sugar and Cream 

Bouillon Croutons 

Vol au Vent of Asparagus 

Persian Rose Leaf Punch 

Compote of Chicken French Peas 

Potatoes en Surprise 

Mock Crab Salad 

Bananas en Surprise 

Crackers Coffee 

Mrs. Joseph Thompson , Atlanta. 


BltEAKFAST 

Florida Oranges California Grapes 

Germea with Sugar and Cream 

English Muffins Light Rolls 

Coffee Tea 

Spring Chicken Fried 

Broiled Steak 

Creamed Potatoes Tomato Omelet 

Waffles Flannel Cakes Syrup 

Mrs. John L. Hopkins, Atlanta. 


Supper 

Bouillon 

Fricasseed Oysters 

Broiled Partridge Ham Omelet 

Potato Croquettes 

Tomato Sauce 

Celery Mayonnaise 

Cracker Biscuit French Rusks 

Tea Coffee Chocolate 

Neapolitan Ice Cream 

Pink Angel Cake 

Mrs. Porter King, Atlanta. 


Luncheon 

Roman Punch served in Ice Tumblers 

Sweetbreads a la Creme 

served in paper cases 

Partridges on Toast Salmon Croquettes 

Sauce Hollandaise 

Cheese Ramakin 

Charlotte Russe 
Black Coffee 

Mrs. Clarendon Gould, Baltimore, Md. 



Menus. 



113 



Family Dinger 

Clear Soup Broiled Fish 

Lemon Sauce 

Scalloped Potatoes Spanish Stew 

Boiled Rice Spiced Sweet Potatoes 

Mayonnaise of Celery 

Swiss Pudding Creamy Sauce 

Fruits Coffee 

Mrs. John L. Hopkins, Atlanta. 



Anita's Game Course 

' "With Roast Partridges serve a sauce 
made as follows : Heaping tablespoon but- 
ter and same of sifted flour, rub well 
together ; one half pint of broth, 2 
teaspoons of each; mushrooms, catsup, 
cream and lemon juice. Put to boil, stir- 
ring well. Add beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 
stirring constantly and never allow it to 
boil after adding eggs. Cheese souffles 
are served with this, baked either in 
paper forms or stone dishes. Take 2 level 
tablespoons of butter, when melted stir 
in 1 heaping tablespoon of flour until 
frothy, but not brown, add one-half cup of 
milk gradually, 1 cup of grated cheese, 
one-half teaspoon of salt, cayenne, yolks 
of 3 eggs, beaten light. When about 
to serve, add the whites beaten stiff, and 
bake in a moderate oven 12 minutes. 

Mrs. E. P. Mcllheney, Houston, Texas. 



Luncheon 

Clam Bouillon 

Cheese Straws 

Deviled Oysters Sauterne 

Sweetbread Timbales 

French Peas 

Imperial Punch 

Broiled Chicken with Bernaise Sauce 

Roman Potatoes 

French Rolls (hot) 

Tomato Salad with Mayonnaise 

Rainbow Jelly with Whipped Cream 

Almonds Olives 

Crystallized Ginger 

Creme de Rose 

Miss Corinne R. Stocker, Atlanta. 



Raw Oysters 

Soup 

Baked Shad Potatoes 

Birds 

Green Peas Finger Rolls 

Giilled Almonds 

Apricot Ice 

Asparagus on Toast 

Brain Patties 

Tomato Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing 

Beaten Biscuit Croquettes 

Olives 

Ice Cream Cake 

Fruit 

Cheese Straws and Coffee 

Mrs. Charges F. Rice, Atlanta. 



Dinner 

Julienne Soup 

Oysters a la Creme 

Roast Lamb M int Sauce 

Peas 

New Potatoes Lettuce 

French Dressing 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream 

Crackers Cheese 

Black Coffee 

Mrs. S. B. Hudson, Columbus, Miss. 



Gentlemen's Di ner 

Blue Points on the Half-shell 

Andalusian Soup 

Broiled Pompano Tartar Sauce 

Roast Fillet of Beef with Mushrooms 
Stuffed Tomatoes 

R >man Punch 

Chicken Timbales 
Cream Sauce 
Lettuce with French Dressing 

Royal Diplomatic Pudding 

Kentucky Chess Cake 
Edam and Roquefort Cheese 
Crackers Coffee 

Mrs. R D. Spalding, Atlanta. 



P. s. 



Caramel Cake.— Whites of 8 eggs, 2 cups of powdered 
sugar, 1 cup of butter, 4 cups of flour (measure after sifting) , 
1 cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 of soda; 
bake in 3 layers, good-sized pans. Filling: 3 cups C. 
sugar, 1 cup sweet cream, butter the size of a large egg, boil 
until thick. The above cake recipe can be used with the 
following fillings : 2 cups of sugar, water enough to dis- 
solve, let boil until hard enough to pull like candy, try it in 
cold water, whites of 3 eggs beaten about half stiff; let the 
syrup stop boiling before pouring into the eggs, continue to 
beat until cold enough to spread. Very finely chopped raisins 
put in this is very nice, also nuts or figs; put the fruits or 
nuts in part of icing, saving part for outside, marsh mallow 
cut fine is also very nice put in icing between angel food. — 
Miss Carrie Merrill, Atlanta. 

"Love Not" Palmer's Cakf # *— Two and one-half cups of flour 
%cup of butter, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of sugar, 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 2 eggs, % cake of chocolate (Baker's), 1 cup of 
sugar, V2 cup of milk ; boil until thick, set away to cool, mix 
with batter, bake in layer cakes and stick together with 
chocolate or caramel filling. 

Chocolate Filling'.*— Boil V2 cup of sugar with 8 table- 
spoons of cream and V2 cake of chocolate grated, until it 
will stand; pour this over the beaten whites of 2 eggs, add 
1 teaspoon of vanilla, beat until it thickens, put between 
layers over the top and sides. 

Hinton's Caramel.*— Three cups of white sugar, 1 cup of 
sweet milk, 1 cup of fresh butter. Boil together until it 

* "Inglehurst Recipes" from Mrs. F. D. Wiinberly. 



P. S. 115 

thickens, then remove from the fire, add 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla and whip until it is cold. 

Cousin Ann Hill's White Cake.*— Whites of 14 eggs, 1 
pound of sugar, % pound of flour, V2 pound of butter. Cream 
flour and butter together, beat the whites and sugar to- 
gether until it looks like icing, mix well and flavor with 
lemon. 

Inglehurst White Fruit Cake.*— Whites of 8 eggs,l coffee 
cup of sweet milk, 2 coffee cups of sugar, 4 coffee cups of 
flour, 1 coffee cup of butter, 3 teaspoons of baking powder, 
2 teaspoons of lemon extract, 2 grated cocoanuts, 2 grated 
nutmegs, 1 pound of citron, 1 pound of almonds, 1 glass of 
sherry wine. Add a cup more of sugar with the cocoanut. 
Candied orange peels and crystallized pineapple improves 
the flavor. 

Wimberly Fruit Cake.*— Two pounds of flour, 2 pounds 
of brown sugar, 1 pound of butter, 3 pounds of raisins, 3 
pounds of currants, 3 pounds of citrons, 14 eggs, 1 large 
cup of cream, IV2 tablespoons of cinnamon, l 1 /^ tablespoons 
of spice, IV2 tablespoons of cloves, 1 tumbler of brandy, 1 
tumbler of good wine, 2 grated nutmegs, 2 teaspoons of 
soda dissolved in a large cup nearly full of molasses. Chop 
raisins fine, rub fruit in flour and bake slowly. 

Inglehurst Pound Cake.*— One pound of sugar, 1 pound of 
flour, 1 pound of butter, 1 pound of eggs, and one extra for 
shells; 1 teaspoon of cream tartar, V2 teaspoon of soda, 
1 teaspoon of lemon; sift cream of tartar in flour; dis- 
solve soda in a little water, and add last. 



* "Inglehurst Recipes" from Mrs. F. D. Wimberly. 



116 P- 8. 

Inglehurst Dressing".*— One pint of vinegar, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, 1 teaspoon of mustard, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 
teaspoon of sugar, 1 teaspoon of black pepper, yolks 
of 4 eggs; rub the butter, mustard, salt, sugar and pepper 
together, beat the yolks with a tablespoon of water; 
when the vinegar boils, add the butter, etc., and stir in the 
yolks, and cook until the thickness of cream. Excellent for 
fish, vegetables, and ham. 

Inglehurst Sally Lunn.*— One yeast cake dissolved in a 
tumbler of warm water, % tumbler of warm milk, 1 table- 
spoon of butter or lard, 3 heaping tablespoons of sugar, 
1 dessertspoon of salt, enough flour for a stiff batter, and 
let it stand in a warm place until well risen ; keep beating it 
down until time to bake, put in a well-buttered pan, let rise, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Corn Pickle.* — Two dozen ears of tender corn, 1 head of 
white cabbage (small), 1 bottle of olive oil, 5 cents' worth 
of turmeric, V2 ounce of white mustard seed, jounce of black 
mustard seed, V2 ounce of celery seed, 1 tablespoon of 
mustard; chop cabbage fine, cut corn off ears, sprinkle salt 
over layer of corn and cabbage, and let stand over night, 
then squeeze out of salt water, cover with vinegar, and cook 
until tender; when cool, squeeze out again; take enough 
vinegar and a pound of sugar, let come to a boil, and pour 
over the pickle; mix mustard seeds, mustard, turmeric, celery 
and oil with corn and cabbage, after squeezing the second 
time, and just before pouring on the boiling vinegar and 
sugar. 



* "Inglehurst Recipes" from Mrs. F. D. Wimberly. 




MRS. FREDERICK FOUNTAIN LYDEN, 
Member Committee on Agriculture and Horticulture. 



P. S. 117 

Stuffed Eggs.— Boil 10 eggs 20 minutes, peel off the shells 
and cut in halves to form two bateaux, remove all the hard- 
boiled yolks and put into a bowl; in an earthen saucepan, 
mix 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 tablespoon dry mustard, 3 table- 
spoons cream, 1 teaspoon salt, V2 teaspoon pepper (cayenne 
is best), 2 tablespoons olive oil, 2 of vinegar, one of sugar; 
boil until a thick custard, and mix with hard-boiled yolks; 
fill the whites with the mixture; serve cold.— Mrs. A. D. 
Adair, Atlanta. 

Five O'clock Tea Sandwiches.— With a five o'clock cup of 
tea, one wants a thin, delicately flavored sandwich, and I 
have found this one entirely satisfactory and very popular. 
Cut your bread in thin slices and shape as fancy dictates 
after the crust is removed. Butter smoothly and lay on damp 
cloth until ready to fill. For a filling, use boiled ham, hard- 
boiled eggs and artichoke pickles in equal proportions. Cut 
the ham with a pair of sharp scissors into long, thin threads 
and slice the pickle in round, flat slices, cutting them very- 
thin. Mix a dressing of mustard, salt, pepper, vinegar and 
celery seed and add a raw egg. Boil, and when a little thick 
add to the meat, pickle and eggs. Mix lightly and lay be- 
tween 2 slices of bread. Tie with a ribbon.— Mrs. Lollie 
Belle Wylie, Atlanta. 

Syrup.— One cup white sugar, 1 of good brown sugar, 1 of 
water. Mix well and let it boil 15 minutes, remove and 
flavor with vanilla. 

Blackberry Pudding 1 .— One-half pound butter, 1 pound 
brown sugar, l 1 /^ pounds flour, 4 eggs, well beaten, 1 quart 
blackberries; cream the butter and sugar, add flour and eggs 



118 P. S. 

alternately, put in a baking dish, lay blackberries on top, 
bake in a moderate oven ; in baking, the berries will be evenly 
distributed; serve with wine sauce. — Mrs. Henry Bryan, 
Dillon, Ga. 

Crab Stew, — Pick a dozen crabs carefully, separate the fat 
from the other meat ; rub the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs 
until mashed smooth, add to them a tablespoon of butter, 
and one of wheat flour, rubbing smoothly together; season 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg and a little onion ; mix into this 
slowly 1 quart of milk, and set on the fire to boil; when it 
tastes cooked, put in the picked crabs, boil a short time, and 
just before dishing, add the fat. 

Veal Cutlets. — Cut the cutlets an inch thick, and round 
them ; beat the yolks of two eggs, dip the cutlets in the egg, 
take them out and strew over them grated bread, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, parsley, and thyme; fry 
brown ; when the cutlets are taken out, stir a little butter 
into the gravy ; serve hot. A little grated lemon peel is an 
improvement in the dressing. — Mrs. Henry Bryan, Dillon, Ga. 

Tomato Beer.— Gather the tomatoes in the afternoon, 
wash and let stand until morning, then strain ; put 2 pounds 
of sugar to the gallon of syrup ; put in a vessel, and strain 
as fermentation rises to the top, until it gets clear, then 
bottle tightly; dilute with water when using, and sweeten 
to taste.— Mrs. M. A. J. Powell, Atlanta. 

Cherry Bounce,— Fill demijohn with ripe cherries, un- 
stoned, but without stems; cover entirely with white 
brandy, or fine whisky; cork, and let stand 2 weeks; pour 



P. 8. 119 

off brandy or whisky in another vessel, then refill with 
brandy over cherries again; allow this to stand for 2 weeks, 
then pour off brandy or whisky, and mix with the other 
brandy or whisky ; re-cover cherries with cold water, let 
stand 2 weeks; pour off and mix with first and second 
brandy or whisky ; add 3 pounds of white granulated sugar 
to every gallon of juice, and stir until thoroughly dissolved; 
let stand for two months ; rack off through strainer.— Miss 
Ella M. Powell, Atlanta. 

White Cake.— Whip to a light cream 2 cups sugar and 1 
nearly full of butter, add 1 cup sweet cream ; sift flour twice, 
then measure out 3 cups of flour and 1 teaspoon of Royal 
b iking powder; last, add the whites of 9 eggs well beaten, 
flavor with almond extract, bake in a moderate oven until 
cake leaves sides and stem of pan. A splendid white cake. 
— Mrs. Jennie E. Lumpkin, Central, S. C. 

Julian Chess Cake.— Yolks of 28 eggs, 1 pound of butter, 
1^4 pounds of sugar, 1 pound of dried currants, V2 pound of 
raisins, *4 pound of citron, ^ pound mixed candied French 
fruit, V2 pound of figs, V2 pound of dates, 1 dessertspoon 
each of ground nutmeg, allspice, cloves and mace, 1 
tablespoon of cinnamon, 2 tablespoons of rose water, 1 
glass of wine. Make a rich puff paste, roll very thin and 
line jelly tins; fill with, the above and bake in moderate 
warm oven. Each layer to be iced and put together with 
icing. Put spices in wine and let stand awhile. — Mrs. H. H. 
Kerr, Murfreesboro, Tenn. 

Fruit Cake.— Twelve eggs, 2 cups of butter, 6 cups of 
sugar, 10 cups of flour, 2 cups of sweet milk, 2 teaspoons of 



120 P. S. 

soda and 4 teaspoons of cream tartar dissolved in the milk r 
1 cup black molasses. Stir V 2 teaspoon of soda into mo- 
lasses, 4 pounds raisins, 2 pounds currants, 1 pound citroi, 
IY2 pounds of dried figs, 1 cup blackberry jam, 4 tablespoons 
nutmeg, 6 tablespoons of cinnamon, 3 tablespoons of cloves, 
3 tablespoons spice, 2 tumblers brandy poured over the 
spice before putting into the batter. Flavor to taste with 
vanilla and lemon. Bake slow. Just before it is cold, pour 
over 2 tumblers of some good wine to keep it moist.— Mrs. 
A. M. Robinson, Atlanta. 

Tapioca Apples.— Prepare apples as for apple duck. Take 
5 tablespoons of tapioca, let it soak 20 minutes in cold 
water. Put a quart of sweet milk on the fire, sweeten it a 
little, when near boiling, stir into it the tapioca with the 
well-beaten yolks of 6 eggs ; beat the whites with 6 table- 
spoons of sugar to a stiff froth. When the milk has cooled 
a little, stir in part of the whites. Fill the apples with this 
and bake until the apples are done. In top of each apple 
pile a spoon of remainder of whites and return to the oven 
until a delicate brown.— Mrs. A. J. Orme, Atlanta. 

Salmon for Dinner.— Take all the bones and skin from 
salmon ; warm it without too much of the sauce that comes 
in can. Half pint of rich milk, into which stir two table- 
spoons of flour, 2 tablespoons of melted butter; stir all to- 
gether, put on to boil and stir until thick. Chop up 2 or 3 
hard-boiled eggs and put in dressing.— Mrs. J. M. Eillups, 
Columbus, Ga. 

Milk Yeast Bread.— Take 1 cup of meal, 1 cup of sweet 
milk ; boil and stir in meal while hot ; V2 cup of warm water 



P. S. 121 

stirred in, 1 cup of flour sifted in, then put that in a bowl 
and set in a warm place to rise. After it has risen, add 1 
teaspoon of sugar, large spoon of lard and 3 pints of flour. 
Work as quickly as possible and be careful not to let the 
dough get cold. When it rises to the top of pan, bake in a 
moderate oven. — Miss Lena P. Johnson, Inman Park. 

Corn Meal Muffins.— One and one-half pints of buttermilk, 
stir in 1 teaspoon of soda until it foams. Have ready 2 
eggs well beaten and pour in enough salt to taste. Add 
enough corn meal to make a nice batter. Melt piece of lard 
size of small hen egg and pour in batter boiling hot. — Miss 
Sallie Elkin, Lancaster, Ky. 

Corn Loaf.— Three cups meal, 1 cup flour, 1 cup dark 
syrup, 2 teaspoons yeast powder, 1V6 cups milk, salt. Put in 
a covered bucket, place bucket in a kettle of water, boil 
steadily for 2 Ms hours. — Mrs. Paul Romare, Atlanta. 

Kiss Pudding". — One quart sweet milk boiled in custard 
kettle, stir into it 4 tablespoons corn starch dissolved in a 
little cold water or milk. Add the well-beaten and strained 
yolks of 4 eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth with 1 
teacup of pulverized sugar and 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 
Spread on top of pudding. Set in quick oven and brown. 
Sprinkle with grated cocoanut and set aside to cool. Serve 
after 3 or 4 hours. — Mrs. G. A. Cabaniss, Atlanta. 

A Swedish Dessert.— Two tumblers of acid fruit jelly, 1 
quart boiling water, and a little sugar, if too acid. When 
thoroughly melted, pour in 4 or 5 tablespoons corn starch 
mixed in water, boil till it thickens, pour into dish or molds 
and serve with whipped cream .—Miss Marie Romare, Atlanta. 



122 P. S. 

Restorative Jelly.— One-half box gelatine, 1 cup port wine, 
1 tablespoon of powdered gum arabic, 2 tablespoons of 
lemon juice, 3 tablespoons of stigar, 2 cloves. Put all to- 
gether in a glass jar, and cover closely. Place the jar on a 
trivet in a kettle of cold water. Heat it slowly and when 
the mixture is dissolved, stir well and strain. Pour into a 
shallow dish, and when cool cut it into small squares. This 
is good for an old person or a very weak patient. — Mrs. Dr. 
Robert Ridley, Atlanta. 

Charlotte Russe.— Soak 1 ounce of gelatine in a pint cf 
sweet milk for 1 hour, place the same over the fire and keep 
stirring until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved, then re- 
move, and when nearly cold beat thoroughly with an egg- 
beater. Flavor 1 quart of cream with 1 heaping teaspoon 
of extract vanilla, wine and pulverized sugar to taste. Pour 
the 2 mixtures together and whip thoroughly, then into 
molds lined with sponge cake. — Mrs. R. S. Rust, Atlanta. 

Swiss Biscuit. — Dissolve half a yeast cake in a half teacup 
of warm water ; beat the yolks of 2 eggs very light, and add 
to the yeast, with the sugar, salt, and 1 tablespoon of 
butter, and enough flour to make a soft dough ; let it rise, 
as for rolls ; beat the whites stiff, and add to the risen 
dough with more flour; roll out like biscuit, spread butter 
over it, and fold over; cut with biscuit cutter, put in but- 
tered pans, and when light, bake them a light brown. — Mrs. 
Wm. G. Elkin, Aberdeen, Miss. 

Corn Wafers. — To 1 cup of corn meal add 1 tabl espoon of 
flour, a little salt, and sufficient sweet milk to make a soft 



P. S. 123 

dough ; bake in wafer irons a light brown on both sides.— 
Mrs. P. Brown, Gainesville, Ga. 

Swiss Splits.— Two medium-sized Irish potatoes; boil in 1 
pint or IV2 pints of water until soft; pass through a vegeta- 
ble strainer into a bowl; add to it a teacup of the potato 
water, scalding hot ; 1 tablespoon of sugar, 1 teaspoon of 
salt, % cup of yeast; mix well, and add 1 pint of flour; if 
too stiff to work with spoon, add little more potato water ; 
make up about 9 o'clock a. m., and set to rise until 1 o'clock 
p. m.; when well risen, break into dough 3 eggs; mix well, 
and add 1 good tablespcon of lard and 2 pints of flour; 
work until all are well mixed, then set again to rise; at 5 p. 
m., work again, adding a little flour, if needed, and make 
dough the ordinary consistency of light bread; roll out as 
for biscuit, butter the upper side, and cut out your rolls with 
a biscuit cutter, and place 2 together (buttered sides touch- 
ing) ; set to rise again, and when risen bake for supper. — 
Mrs. Sue B. Hudson, Columbus, Miss. 

Some Simple Remedies From a Texas Lady.— For Indiges- 
tion : One-quarter of a teaspoon of soda, 10 drops of pep- 
permint in !/3 of a glass of water. For Sick Headache: The 
juice of 1 lemon in a half glass of water, either hot or cold ; 
a little sugar and ^ of a teaspoon of soda. 

Cold Cream.— Three ounces almond oil, 3 ounces of rose 
water, 3 ounces of mutton suet, V2 ounce of white wax, Y2 
ounce of spermaceti; perfume with any extract preferred; 
put all together in a saucepan and heat until melted ; don't 
let boil; then beat until a white, smooth cream. — Mrs. Dr. J. 
B. S. Holmes, Atlanta. 



124 P. S. 

Baking 1 Powder. — Nine ounces cream tartar, 4 ounces of 
soda, 6 ounces of flour; sift six times.— Mrs. Charles Run- 
nette, Inman Park. 

Gruel or Beef Tea.— Take 2 tablespoons of oatmeal, with 
3 of cold water, and mix them thoroughly; then add 1 pint 
of strong boiling beef tea or milk ; boil 5 minutes, stirring 
well to prevent the oatmeal from burning; then strain. — Dr. 
J.J. Linscott, Holton, Kansas. 

Pear Butter.— To 7 pounds of pears, peeled and quartered, 
put V2 pint cider vinegar, 1 ounce allspice, 1 ounce cloves, 1 
ounce stock cinnamon, *4 ounce mace; tie the spices in a 
piece of muslin, and let them boil with the pears and vine- 
gar, until the pears can be mashed to a pulp ; take out the 
spice, and add 3 pounds of sugar, and boil to a marmalade. 
—Mrs. J. L. Hopkins, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

Coffee. — Two-thirds Java, and V3 Mocha, whites and shells 
of 2 eggs to 3 pounds ; mix, and then leave in pan to dry ; 
put coffee in pot and pour a little cold water over it ; then 
pour in the boiling water, not to the brim. — Mrs. Elizabeth 
Collins, Baltimore, Md. 

Breakfast Dish.— Take equal quantities of apples and 
onions, stew apples and fry onions in lard till brown; then 
add the apples to the onions, and continue stewing and 
mashing till all are well cooked ; serve hot. Nice side dish 
for breakfast.— Mrs. T. S. Quarterman, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

Mock Olives.— Gather plums just before ripening; soak 
them over night in weak brine, drain and pour over them, 
boiling hot, this pickle: to every quart vinegar, 2 tablespoons 



P. S. 125 

white mustard seed, V2 teaspoon whole cloves, tied in a 
cloth. Simmer for 15 minutes, let them remain in iorine 24 
hours; reheat and return to plums; put up in small jars. 
They mould after being opened. — Mrs. T. S. Quarterman, 
Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

A Pretty Tea Dish.— Make a sweetened pie crust, roll thin, 
and partly bake in sheets ; before it is quite done take from 
the oven, cut in squares of four inches, take up two diagonal 
corners and pinch together, which makes them basket- 
shaped ; now fill with whipped cream, or white of egg, or 
both, well sweetened and flavored, and return to oven for 
few minutes.— Miss Ella Rushton, Atlanta. 

Cold Slaw and Dressing.— To 1 quart of chopped cabbage 
use the following dressing: One teacup of vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoon of mustard, 1 teaspoon of celery seed, 1 teaspoon of 
salt, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 tablespoon of butter; put 
on the fire and let come to a boil. Beat well 2 eggs, pour on 
it a cup of sweet milk or cream, add this to the hot dress- 
ing, stirring constantly until thick. Pour over cabbage and 
set away on ice to get cold until ready to serve. — Mrs. D. G. 
Wylie, Atlanta. 

Pop-Up Muffins.— Two cups of milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 
eggs and a pinch of salt. Beat eggs separately. Then add 
flour and milk, a little at a time and beat very hard. Have 
your tins very hot, and bake at once. The oven must have 
good bottom heat and yet not too hot, or they will crust 
over the top before they rise.— Mrs. Kate Cox, Atlanta. 

Pineapple Fritters.— Make any nice fritter batter, add 1 
grated pineapple. — Mrs. Vannah Dozier, Columbus, Ga. 



126 P. S. 

Cake Without Flour.— One heaping cup of cracker dust, 1 
heaping cup of almond dust, 10 eggs, whites and yolks 
beaten separately. Flavor with vanilla. Cook in layers 
and spread whipped cream between. — Mrs. Eloise Thomas, 
Jefferson, Texas. 

Nut Cake.— Eight eggs, 2 teacups sugar, Y2 pound of Eng- 
lish walnuts, 9 tablespoons of cracker dust, 1 teaspoon of 
spice and cloves; 1 lemon rind grated with the eggs and 
sugar, very light. Add spices and lemon, cracker dust and 
nuts ; bake in moderate oven. — Mrs. E. Brown, Anderson, S. C. 

Velvet Sponge Cake.— Two cups of sugar, 6 eggs, (leave 
out whites of 3), 1 cup of boiling water, 2Y2 cups of flour, 1 
tablespoon of baking powder in the flour. Beat the yolks 
of eggs a little. A.dd the sugar and beat 15 minutes. Add 
the 3 beaten whites and cup of boiling water just before the 
flour. Flavor with teaspoon of extract of lemon. Bake in 
3 layers, putting between them icing made by adding to the 
3 whites, beaten to a stiff froth, 6 dessertspoons of pulver- 
ized sugar to each egg. Flavor with lemon. Cooked icing 
may be used. — Mrs. Charles Lovelace, Columbus, Ga. 

Beaten Biscuit. — One pound flour, 3 ounces lard, 1 teaspoon 
salt, one teacup sweet milk; mix togetherin very stiff dough, 
and beat until it blisters and is soft enough to roll out a half 
inch thick ; cut with small cutter, stick each biscuit through 
with fork, place in moderately hot oven, and bake 25 
minutes. — Mrs. S. F. Hamilton, Columbus, Miss. 

Salmon Croquettes.— One cup of milk to a can of salmon, 
1 spoon of butter rubbed into a dessertspoon of flour. Let 
the milk come to a boil. Empty the salmon into it, let the 



P. S. 127 

whole come to a boil, season and set aside until cold. Mold, 
dip into raw egg, roll in cracker crumbs and fry in boiling 
lard.— Mrs. Clifford Anderson, Atlanta. 

Tongue Croquettes.— Mix 1 cup of cold tongue chopped 
fine, 1 cup of cold mashed potatoes; put this mixture in a 
saucepan, stir over the fire until the potatoes are soft. Add 

1 unbeaten egg. Mix carefully, dip in the yellow of 1 egg, 
roll in cracker dust, make in shapes and fry in boiling lard. 
— Mrs. B. G. Swanson, LaGrange, Ga. 

Cheese Straws.— One pint of grated cheese, % pint of flour, 

2 tablespoons of butter, Y2 teaspoon of black pepper, a little 
salt ; mix with rich milk or water and bake slowly. — Miss 
Annie Lou Harralson, Edgewood, Ga. 

Nonpariel Cake.— Five eggs, 4 cups of flour, 2 cups of 
sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder (Royal), 1 teaspoon of lemon extract. Beat 
the eggs separately. Cream the butter and sugar together, 
add yolks of eggs, then alternately the flour and milk, and 
lastly the whites of eggs. Mix baking powder in flour.— 
Mrs. M. Harralson, Edgewood, Ga. 

Pop-Ups.— One quart of flour, 2 well-beaten eggs, V± tea- 
cup of sugar, 1 good-sized yeast cake dissolved in a little 
milk or water, teaspoon of salt. Mix all well at night, in 
the morning work in a half cup of butter. Place in a warm 
stove or near the stove until it rises, then knead it into 
small biscuits and bake in a qtick oven. The eggs must be 
well beaten, the dough soft with sweet milk. — Mrs. C. A. 
Ferrell, LaGrange, Ga. 



128 P. S. 

Graham Gems.— One cup sour cream and milk, 2 table- 
spoons of molasses, 1 egg, V2 teaspoon soda, the same of 
salt ; graham flour to thicken it so that it will drop easily 
from the spoon. Beat hard and drop into well-heated gem 
pans, place in a hot oven for 15 or 20 minutes.— Miss Flor- 
ence Coles, Inman Park. 

Flour Muffins.— One quart of flour, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons 
of melted butter, 2 cups of sweet milk, 2 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, 4 tablespoons of sugar (good without sugar) 
and salt to taste.— Mrs. Richard Norman, Columbus, Ga. 

Punch Sherbet.— Take a quart can of fine peaches ; rub 
through a sieve. Add 1 pint of water, 1 cup of sugar and 1 
cup of orange juice. Freeze like a punch and serve in glasses, 
adding a tablespoon of champagne to each glass when the 
sherbet is served. The wines served at breakfast are usually 
sauternes, white Burgundy or claret. It is better form to 
serve only 1 wine throughout the breakfast than to serve a 
different wine with each course.— Mrs. Henry L. Wilson, 
Atlanta. 

Orange Souffle. — Whip to a froth 1 quart of sweet rich 
cream, 4 eggs, well beaten, 1 pint orange juice strained, 14th 
of a box of gelatine dissolved in a gill of cold water, sugar 
to your taste. After the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved 
and the 4 eggs well beaten, pour the gelatine to the eggs, 
adding the orange juice, then slowly stir in the whipped 
cream, and sugar to your taste. Then put the whole into 
freezer, packing ice and salt alternately around the freezer; 
let stand until firm. Serve in scooped oranges or glass 
bowl.— Miss Eugenia Rucker, Atlanta. 



P. S. 129 

Boston Brown Bread.— Two cups of corn meal, 1 cup of 
flour, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sour milk or clabber, a 
pinch of salt, a level teaspoon of cooking soda dissolved in 
a little of the sour milk. Sift corn meal and flour together, 
stirring in molasses, then sour milk, adding salt and soda 
last. Put in a tight tin bucket or steamer and steam for 4 
hours. This requires a hot fire. It can be made one day and 
dropped in the steamer and heated for use the next day. — 
Mrs. Robert Paul, Mcintosh Co.,Ga. 

Mush Bread.— Make 1 quart of stiff mush and allow it t Q 
cool well, then add 2 or 3 eggs well beaten, V2 tablespoon of 
lard, V2 tablespoon of soda dissolved in teacup of butter- 
milk, 2 or 3 tablespoons of meal, salt to taste. When you 
have plenty of milk use in mush instead of water. — Mrs. 
James B. Conyers, Cartersville, Ga. 

Rusks.— Three cups new milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup yeast at 
night; in the morning 1 cup more of sugar, 1 cup butter; let 
them rise until light. Cut Y2 the recipe into 6 pieces ; this 
will fill 1 dish. When baked, eat with sugar and milk.— Mrs. 
A. M. Tucker, North Adams, Mass. 

Cheese Souffle.— Butter size of an egg, 2 eggs well beaten, 
V2 cup of milk, 1 pound cheese grated and stirred in last, salt 
and a dash of cayenne pepper.— Mrs. W. W. Freeman, North 
Adams, Mass. 

Dressing* for Slaw.— Three eggs well beaten, 2 level table- 
spoons of sugar, 1 teaspoon of mustard, 1 teacup of vinegar, 
a lump of butter the size of a guinea egg. Mix well together. 
Put on fire, stirring well while cooking to prevent curdling. 



130 P. S. 

When as thick as boiled custard take it off and let cool and 
then pour over the slaw.— Mrs. Charles T. Hopkins, Atlanta. 

Buttermilk Yeast Cakes.— Let 1 pint of buttermilk come 
to a boil, remove from fire and when tepid, dissolve 1 yeast 
cake in it and make a thick batter of meal. Let this stand 
in warm place 5 or 6 hours, or until risen, then add enough 
meal to make stiff enough to mold into cakes. Dry in the 
shade, turning frequently. In making bread, use 1 yeast 
cake (thoroughly dissolved in water with tablespoon of 
sugar) to 1 quart of flour, heaping tablespoon of lard or 
butter, a little salt, and water enough to make into a stiff 
dough. Knead 15 minutes and put to rise in a warm place 
over night. Make out into rolls or loaves, grease on top 
and place in well-buttered pans for second rising about 1 
hour before baking. — Miss June McKinley, Atlanta. 

Caramel Pudding.— Put a handful of loaf sugar to boil in 
^4 pint of water until the syrup becomes a deep 
brown. Warm a small basin, or jelly mold, pour the syrup 
in it and keep turning the basin in your hand until the inside 
is completely coated with the syrup, which will by that time 
have set. Strain the yolks of 8 eggs from the whites, and 
mix them gradually and effectually with 1 pint of milk. 
Pour this mixture into the prepared mold, lay a piece of 
paper on the top ; set it in a saucepan of cold water, taking 
care that the water does not come over the top of the mold ; 
put on the cover and let it boil gently by the side of the fire 
for 1 hour. Remove the saucepan to a cool place and when 
the water is quite cold take out the mold and turn the pud- 
ding out very carefully. By using a portion of the whites 



P. S. 131 

as well as yolks, the risk of breaking the pudding is avoided, 
but it will not be so delicate. — Mrs. Henry Boylston, Atlanta. 
Asper Shade Tea Bread.— One pint of new milk, iy 2 pints of 
flour, 3 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup of yeast (teacup), 1 
tablespoon of butter, 1 teaspoon of salt; beat well, let it 
rise until light; beat again, put into a buttered pan; when 
well risen, bake. — Mrs. Fannie Whiteside, Atlanta. 

Breakfast Cake.— One cup milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, but- 
ter the size of an egg, a little salt, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 3 cups of flour; bake in pans or cups. — Mrs. W. H. 
Freeman, North Adams, Mass. 

White Cake. — One cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 5 cups flour, 
5 cups sweet milk, 12 whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; 
stir butter and sugar together to a cream ; sift one teaspoon 
of baking powder into the flour, and put in the egg whites the 
last thing; flavor with vanilla extract, bake in a rather 
moderate oven. — Mrs. N. R. Fowler, Atlanta. 

Jelly. — One quart water, 1^ ounces gelatine, 8 ounces of 
sugar, 1 or 2 lemons, 1 teaspoon of whole mixed spices, 2 
whites of eggs and the clean shells ; 1 cup of water must be 
added to allow for evaporation, unless V2 pint of wine is 
to be used. Put the water in the kettle; add all the other 
ingredients, the lemon juice withoutthe seeds, and theyellow 
rind cut very thin, the whites of the eggs beaten a little, and 
the clean egg shells ; set the kettle on the side of the range, 
and let come to a boil, slowly stirring occasionally ; boil 20 
minutes, or until the eggs are thoroughly cooked, so that it 
will mix with the jelly like meal; strain, and if wine is used, 
put in after straining.— Mrs. E. F. Millitt, Kentucky. 



132 P. S. 

Cough Mixture.— Take buttonwood root and make a 
strong tea of it ; to a pint of the tea and a pint of honey, a 
piece of saltpetre about the size of your thumb; mix all to- 
gether and boil down to one pint; also add one tablespoon 
of paregoric. — Mrs. Marion Wilson, Atlanta. 

Green Corn Cake.— One quart grated green corn, 4 eggs, 
enough flour to make a batter, salt to taste; fry thin on 
griddle. — Miss Evelyn Orme, Atlanta. 

Eastern Shore of Maryland Tea Bread.— Three eggs, l 1 /^ 
pints warm sweet milk, 14 cup butter, ^ cup sugar, V2 cup 
yeast, 1 teaspoon of suet, flour to make a stiff batter; let it 
stand for 5 hours in a warm place, then stir down; pour 
into a heated loaf pan and let rise again about half an hour ; 
bake in a moderate oven 50 or 60 minutes ; split it open 
evenly, butter well and place 1 piece on top of the other ; 
send to the table hot.— Miss Bettie McDowell, LaGrange, Ga. 

Cheese Bread. — Butteryour pan, put in a layer of slices of 
bread, upon which grate a little cheese; mix together 4 eggs, 
with 3 cups of sweet milk; pour V2 of it on the first layer 
of bread and cheese, then put in a second layer of it (and 
upon the bread put a little butter), and pour upon it the 
rest of the eggs and milk; bake a short time.— Mrs. Eliza 
Peeples, Atlanta. 

Scotch Cakes. — One cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup butter, 
a little spice ; rub the butter and sugar together, add flour 
and spice: roll out and cut with a tumbler; bake on tins. 

Champignons or Timbales.— Take 4 eggs, 6 spoons of 
flour, 1 glass of rum, sugar to suit the taste, stir well ; 
plunge your champignons or timbaleiron in the boiling lard ; 





<4%r 



:;~zz 



7 



miss june Mckinley, 

Member Committee on Agriculture and Horticulture. 



p. s. m 

when the iron is warm, dip it in the batter, then again into 
the lard, until the dough is cooked. — Mrs. Marie V. D. Cor- 
put, Atlanta. 

Creme au Vin Blanc— Place in a stew pan y 2 pint white 
wine, ^4 pound loaf sugar, flavor with vanilla ; allow the 
mixture to come to a boil ; beat the yolks of 8 eggs ; add to 
this 1 tablespoon of arrowroot, mix gradually with the 
wine; boil this, stirring all the time; pass through a sieve, 
and allow it to cool. — Miss Mathilde Corput, Atlanta. 

Peach Pickle (Sweet).— Seven pounds peaches, peeled, 3 
pounds sugar, 1 pint apple vinegar, 2 tablespoons each 
of allspice, cloves, mace, cinnamon (use the stick cinnamon) ; 
tie the different spices up in separate little muslin bags (use 
whole spices). Put the sugar on the fruit over night ; in the 
morning pour off the juice and heat it scalding hot with the 
vinegar and spices ; pour over the fruit ; repeat this for 3 
mornings ; the fourth morning put the fruit in with the 
syrup and scald and set away in jars closely covered. After 
4 or 5 days examine the fruit and, if there is any signs 
of fermentation, scald again. — Mrs. W. A. Moore, Atlanta. 

Pickled Shrimp.— Take off the heads and fins of the prawn; 
wash and wipe the prawn dry. Place in jars a layer of 
prawn and a light layer of salt. Season vinegar strongly 
with mace and cayenne pepper; scald the vinegar and spices 
together ; when cold, pour over the shrimp or prawn and 
cover closely. — Miss Bessie Tunno, Charleston, S. C. 

Potato Split Biscuit.— Take V 2 yeast cake, 1 dessertspoon 
of brown sugar, V2 cup of milk ; dissolve the yeast cake in 



134 P. S. . 

the milk ; take 1 large baked potato, and while hot, mash 
through a strainer with 1 spoon of butter, 1 egg (beaten very 
light), a little salt, 1 pint of flour; set to rise; when risen 
add Y2 pint of flour, set to rise again ; when risen roll out 
and make into rolls; rise again and bake. — Mrs. Henry 
Boylston, Atlanta. 

Preventive of Seasickness.— The following remedy, pre- 
ventive of seasickness, is recommended by Prof. E. Tourgee, 
of Boston, manager of tourist excursions. It was tried by 
himself and family, five in all, who had suffered from sea- 
sickness on every former voyage across the Atlantic, and in 
each case it proved entirely successful, and produced no un- 
favorable results : Dissolve 1 ounce of bromide of sodium 
in 4 ounces of water ; take 1 teaspoon 3 times a day be- 
fore eating. Begin taking the above 3 days before starting 
on the sea voyage.— Mrs. Lucy Milner Lumpkin, Atlanta. 

Fruit Cake.— Two pounds raisins, seeded and cut in 2 
pieces ; 2 pounds currants, washed clean in a sieve and dried 
in the sun ; 1 pound citrons, 1 pound flour, 1 pound sugar, % 
of a pound of butter, 10 eggs, one tumbler of wine or brandy. 
I use also Y2 tumbler of syrup from sweet pickles, 2 table- 
spoons of cinnamon, 1 of cloves, 1 nutmeg. After the rai- 
sins have been seeded and cut, pour brandy or wine on them, 
and let staiad over night. Do this with all the fruit. After 
weighing the flour, take some of it and rub on the fruit; 
after mixing your cake, add your fruit; if the batter is too 
thin the fruit will sink to the bottom of the pan ; bake 
slowly for 3 hours ; if very thick, will take 4 hours.— Mrs. 
John Morse, Atlanta. 



P. S. 135 

Coffee Cake.— Scald V2 of a cup of milk, add to it V2 of a 
cup of cold water, a very small piece of butter, Y2 teaspoon 
of salt, and the same of sugar; when lukewarm, add y± cup 
of yeast, and enough flour to make a stiff batter; beat until 
smooth ; let stand overnight, or until light ; then add enough 
flour to make a soft dough; knead for 10 minutes, until 
very smooth and velvety, being very careful not to add too 
much flour, as it must be very soft; let rise until it has 
doubled its bulk; beat 3 tablespoons of butter to a cream, 
add 4 heaping tablespoons of sugar and beat again, adding 
1 Qgg beaten light, without separating; work this into the 
dough very thoroughly, then set aside to raise ; when light, 
pour into a well-greased baking pans and bake 25 minutes 
in a moderately quick oven. While the cake is baking, pre- 
pare an icing with the whites of 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons 
of powdered sugar ; beat the whites only until they begin to 
be light ; add the sugar by degrees, then beat until smooth 
and glossy. When the cake is done, spread* with the icing, 
and put in the oven to dry for 2 minutes. — Mrs. Henry L. 
Wilson, Atlanta. 

Charlotte Russe.— One quart of cream, whites of 3 eggs, 
9 tablespoons of sugar; flavor with sherry wine, V2 cup of 
gelatine, pour upon it boiling water until the cup is full. 
When the gelatine is well dissolved and cooled, mix with 
cream, eggs, etc., and then churn.— Miss Kate Harralson, 
Edgewood, Ga. 

Spiced Apples.— Eight pounds apples, peeled and cored, 4 
pounds sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 1 ounce stick cinnamon, Y2 
ounce whole cloves ; boil vinegar, sugar and spice together ; 



136 P. S. 

while boiling, add apples, a half at a time; boil until tender, 
twenty minutes will suffice; remove and add others, until all 
have been in jar; boil syrup until thick as you like, and pour 
over ; should there be too little to cover the fruit, sweeten 
and scald enough vinegar to thoroughly cover the apples ; 
cover jar with a wax cloth. — Mrs. A. D. Adair, Atlanta. 

Boiled Plum Pudding*.— Two tumblers of fine bread crumbs, 

1 tumbler of sifted flour, V2 pound raisins, seeded and cut in 
half, the same of currants, picked and dried; a large piece of 
citron, cut into strips; chop Y2 pound of dried beef suet, soak 
several hours in a tumbler of brandy or wine; 1 tablespoon 
of mace and cinnamon, mixed; add to the butter 1 beaten 
nutmeg, 2 grated lemons, removing the seed; 10 eggs, beaten 
well> with a tumbler of sugar; pour upon the bread 2 tum- 
blers of rich milk, very hot; tie well, and follow the direc- 
tions for boiling ; serve with a rich sauce.— Mrs. McD. Dun- 
woody. 

A New Chicken Salad.— One quart of chicken cut into dice, 

2 large cucumbers, 1 can of French peas; chop the cucum- 
bers and let drain ; turn the peas into a colander, let cold 
water run over them for a moment, and then dry in a cloth ; 
just before serving, mix all together with a very thick salad 
dressing, either a boiled dressing or a mayonnaise. This 
salad is most delicious, far better than the salad made witli 
chicken and celery.— Mrs. C. L. Russell, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Canelon of Beef.— Two pounds of the round of the beef, 
chopped very fine, also 3 sprigs of parsley chopped fine; 
1 heaping teaspoon of salt, 1 tablespoon of butter, ^ tea- 
spoon of black pepper, 1 raw egg, and V2 teaspoon of onion 



P. S. 137 

juice ; add these ingredients to the minced beef and parsley 
and mix thoroughly. Shape into a roll about 3 inches in 
diameter. Roll in a buttered paper, place in a baking pan 
and pour over it boiling water (which will melt the butter), 
basting meat quite often to keep paper from burning. 
When cooked done enough, place on a hot dish, unroll from 
the paper, and serve with tomato sauce made as follows : 
Stew a pint of tomatoes, half a slice of onion and 4 cloves 
together 10 minutes. Put on to cook 1 heaping tablespoon 
of butter in a small frying pan; when it is brown add 1 
tablespoon of flour, stir constantly for 2 or 3 minutes, then 
add a teaspoon of salt, V2 teaspoon of white pepper or few 
grains of cayenne to the tomatoes. Rub all through a wire 
strainer to keep back seeds. Pour this around the beef pone 
and garnish with parsley. — Mrs. John W. Hurt, Atlanta. 

Fanchonettes. — Bake nice pastry in scallop shells or patty 
pans; place an almond macaroon in center of each; cover 
with red fruit jelly, then with a thin layer of meringue. Fill 
a paper funnel with stiff meringue, drop a circle of cones an 
inch in height and diameter around it, and one in the center ; 
set in the oven until colored very slightly. When cold, sur- 
mount each cone with a tiny fragment of red jelly or some 
pretty and delicate confection. An elegant dessert. — Mrs. 
S. A. Sykes, Aberdeen, Miss. 

Citron Pudding*.— Line your pie plates with thin paste; cut 
the citron in thin slices and cover bottom of plates ; mix to- 
gether the yolks of 8 eggs and whites of 2 beaten separately, 
a half pound of sugar, and a half pound of melted butter; 
beat this mixture well, and pour it over citron ; bake in a 



138 P. S. 

moderate oven; beat the 6 whites and 5 tablespoons of 
sugar until smooth ; pour over top of pudding after it is 
baked; put in stove and brown lightly. — Mrs. J. D. Shell, 
Aberdeen, Miss. 

Pumpkin Chips. — From a highly colored pumpkin cut slices 
about 3 inches long and 1 inch broad, and about the thick- 
ness of a dollar; for 1 pound of chips, 1 pound of sugar; 
pare the rinds of 5 lemons and add the juice, allowing 1 gill 
of juice to 1 pound of chips. Put the pumpkin into a bread 
pan and cover with the sugar. Pour the lemon juice over 
it and let stand all night. Boil all together till the pumpkin 
is clear; half an hour is sufficient. When half boiled, take 
out the pumpkin, let it cool, return it and boil till clear. — 
Mrs. Henry Boylston, Atlanta. 

Florida Orange Marmalade.— Six perfect oranges with 
bright skin, 2 lemons, 4 pounds of sugar. With a sharp 
knife shred the oranges and lemons as fine as possible, re- 
moving the seed with the cutting. Put the shredded fruit 
in an earthen or porcelain vessel and add a half gallon of 
water. Cover and let stand 48 hours. Pour the whole into 
a preserving kettle, add the 4 pounds of sugar. Let it boil 
until the fruit becomes transparent and a little jellied. The 
more quickly it is cooked, the more brilliant the color. — 
Emma Moffett Tyng. 

Swedish Prune Pudding*.— Take the pits of y 2 pound of 
French prunes. Steam the prunes until tender and chop 
them fine. Take the meats out of pits and chop fine. Mix 
together the prunes, chopped meats and 6 tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, and the beaten whites of 10 eggs. Bake 



P. S. 139 

immediately, 15 minutes, and serve with whipped cream. 
Do not grease the tin, but pour cold water in it before put- 
ting in the pudding.— Mrs. Archibald Davis, Atlanta. 

Fruit Conserve. — Five pounds currants, 3 pounds sugar, 2 
oranges, 1 pound raisins, seeded; use grated rind, juice and 
pulp of the oranges, freed from the white skin and the seeds ; 
cook the whole about 20 minutes; if the seeds of the currants 
are objectionable, strain them, using only the juice, and 
add cherries, equal in bulk to the discarded currant seeds. — 
Mrs. W. D. Shuart, Rochester, N. Y. 

Ginger Pears.— Eight pounds of pears, weighed after they 
are pared, and cut into dice; 6 pounds granulated sugar, 4 
large lemons, V2 pound green ginger root; peel lemons, and 
chop the pulp and yellow rind, discarding the white inner 
skin; parboil the ginger root to soften, and cut into bits; 
cook all together, adding one quart of water, for 3 hours, 
or until the consistency of jelly when cold. — Mrs. W. D. 
Shuart, Rochester, N. Y. 

Onion and Cucumber Pickle.— Slice 1 peck cucumbers, and 
Y2 peck onions ; let stand over night in salt; in the morning, 
wash off the salt, and in a stone jar put a layer of onions, 
then one of cucumbers, sprinkling over each layer whole 
pepper, mustard seed, and a little powdered cinnamon; con- 
tinue this until the jar is almost full, then to V2 gallon vine- 
gar add lpint port wine, and V2 pint olive oil, and pour the 
whole over the pickle; every morning, for two weeks, stir 
well.— Miss Stella Shuart, Rochester, N. Y. 

Dutch Lettuce (For the Chafing Dish.)— Two heads of let- 
tuce, shredded; V4 pound raw ham, diced; 1 egg, raw; dash 



140 P. S. 

of pepper, either cayenne or paprika ; 2 tablespoons vine- 
gar, 2 tablespoons sour cream ; put ham in blazer over the 
flame, and cook until brown, and the fat well dried out; 
then add the vinegar, pepper, broken egg, and sour cream, 
stirring constantly until it thickens; add the shredded let- 
tuce, and serve hot.— Miss Stella Shuart, Rochester, N. Y. 

Apple Salad.— Two tart apples, 1 cup celery, juice of one 
lemon ; pare apples and cut into dice, add celery and lemon 
juice; pour over this a French dressing made from 3 table- 
spoons of oil, one tablespoon of vinegar, y± teaspoon salt, 
i/8 teaspoon pepper; serve on lettuce leaves, with chopped 
parsley and mayonnaise dressing, 1 teaspoon of the latter 
being added to each little nest of the salad. — Miss Gertrude 
Shuart, Rochester, N. Y. 

Beet Salad. — One cupboiled beets, diced; lcup boiled pota- 
toes, diced; 1 cup celery, diced; y% teaspoon celery salt, Y2 
teaspoon curry powder; pour over this a dressing, made as 
follows : One tablespoon sugar, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 cup 
vinegar, 3 eggs; beat all together, boil until it begins to 
thicken like custard, then add one cup sour milk, stirring 
constantly; let boil five minutes more, and when cold, pour 
over the vegetables. — Miss Stella Shuart, Rochester, N. Y. 

Ginger Wafers. — One-half cup butter washed and creamed, 
V2 cup sweet milk, 1 cup fine brown sugar (sifted), 2 cups 
flour sifted twice, 1 heaping tablespoon ground ginger. Rub 
the bottom of stove pans with cold butter and spread the 
mixture as thin as paper; bake in moderate oven. When 
browned, cut into squares with sharp knife; remove imme- 
diately from pan. (Very crisp and nice.)— Mrs. F. B. Mapp, 
Milledgeville, Ga. 






P. S. 141 

Washington Pie.— One tablespoon butter, y 2 cup sugar, 1 
cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, y 2 cup sweet milk, 1 
egg. Cream butter and sugar, beat in yolk, add flour and 
milk, lastly white of egg, bake in 2 layers, spread between 
jelly or jam, serve hot with egg sauce. 

Egg Sauce.— One-half cup sugar, V2 cup water. Cook 
without stirring until it ropes, turn slowly into the beaten 
white of 1 egg, juice of V2 lemon, tablespoon of jelly ; beat 
well.— Mrs. F. B. Mapp, Milledgeville, Ga. 

Chicken Salad.— The w T hite meat of a cold boiled or roast- 
ed chicken, % of the same bulk of chopped celery (or of 
crisp, white cabbage if the celery is not to be had), 2 hard- 
boiled eggs (only using yolks), 1 raw egg well beaten in 
Dover egg-beater, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of mus- 
tard (to taste), pepper, 3 teaspoons of salad oil, 2 tea- 
spoons white sugar, M> teacup of vinegar or what is still 
better, lemon juice. Directions : Rub the yolks to fine pow r - 
der (it helps to put a little butter to it). Add the salt, pepper 
and sugar; then the oil, grinding hard, putting in a few 
drops at a time. Add the mustard next and let all stand 
while you w T hip the raw egg to a froth. Beat this into the 
dressing and pour in the vinegar (or lemon juice) spoonful 
by spoonful, whipping the dressing well while you do it. 
Sprinkle a little dry salt over the meat and celery. Pour the 
dressing over it. Mix it well.— Mrs. Sarah Cooper Sanders, 
Washington, Ga. 

Remedy for Croup. — One pint of olive oil, 1 ounce of gum 
camphor (pulverized), 2 ounces of white wax. Pour the 
olive oil into a covered vessel, place it over the fire, add the 



142 P. S. 

gum camphor and let slowly boil until the camphor is all 
dissolved, then add the wax, stirring thoroughly, until 
melted. Pour the contents of the vessel into glass jars and 
screw the tops firmly down. Keep in a dark place. This 
salve is to be used as a plaster over the throat and chest. 
In my own experience I have found it to be a most excellent 
remedy for croup. It is also very good for asthma.— Mrs. 
D. N. Speer, Atlanta. 

Gumbo Soup. — Cut a spring chicken and a small slice of 
ham into small pieces ; into a pot put a heaping tablespoon 
of lard ; when quite hot, put in the ham and chicken, and fry 
brown ; add to this 2 large tomatoes, 1 onion, 1 tablespoon 
of flour; let brown a little; add 3 dozen okra cut into 
small pieces. Cover with sufficient water to make required 
quantity of soup; let simmer over slow fire, salt to taste; 
serve with boiled rice; cook 2 or 3 hours, and if too thick, 
Vi an hour before serving, thin with boiling water.— Miss 
Daisy Hodgson, New Orleans. 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickles,— Slice the tomatoes and on- 
ions and put into a jar with thick layers of salt; let remain 
over night. The next morning wash thoroughly in cold 
water and squeeze dry ; cover with vinegar, and to every 
gallon add the following: V2 pound of sugar, 1 ounce of 
celery seed, ^4 pound of mustard, 1 ounce of allspice, 1 ounce 
black pepper, 2 nutmegs ; boil the whole gently until clear 
and tender; put some turmeric in muslin bag to color pickle. — 
Mrs. Ira E. Fort, Atlanta. 

Walnut Salad.— Crack 25 English walnuts and pick out 
the kernels as whole as possible; cover with the juice of lemon 



P. 5. 143 

and let stand for 2 hours; do not drain, but pick them out 
of the lemon juice and serve on watercress with French 
dressing. The English serve the green walnuts as a salad, 
and the nuts are often soaked in wine in preference to lemon 
juice. — Mrs. Wm. Hoyle, Atlanta. 

French Dressing" for Salads.— Two tablespoons of olive oil, 
4 of vinegar in a soup plate where a teaspoon of scraped raw 
onion has been placed, then olive oil, vinegar and red pepper 
pulverized; add black pepper and a little salt; serve the 
leaves of bleached lettuce on plates at the seat of each per- 
son at the table, placing at least a whole, hard-boiled egg 
cut in half in the middle of each plate for a garnishing with 
the lettuce leaves turned to the middle; then serve the dress- 
ing over the lettuce ; it is better than a mayonnaise.— Mrs. 
E. P. Pullen, Atlanta. 

Jam Cake.— Two cups of flour, % cup of butter, 1 cup of 
sugar, 8 eggs, 3 tablespoons of sour cream, 1 teaspoon of 
soda, 1 teaspoon spice, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, 2 clips of jam last. This is equal to a black fruit 
cake. — Mrs. Robert W. Walker, Marysville, Tenn. 

Gentlemen's Favorite Cake.— Seven eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately ; 2 cups sugar, V 2 cup of butter 
worked to a cream, 1 tablespoon of water, 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 2 cups flour, V2 teaspoon of salt; bake in 
jelly cake pan. Jelly for the same : One egg, 1 cup of sugar, 
3 apples, peeled and grated, juice of one lemon ; stir until it 
thickens and cool before using.— Mrs. Dr. R. L. Sykes, 
Columbus, Miss. 



144 P. 8. 

Coffee Jelly.— One-half box Knox's gelatine, soak in 1 cup 
cold water for 1 hour, then add 1 cup boiling water, 1 
cup sugar and 2 cups cold coffee.— Miss Louise Galuph, 
North Adams, Mass. 

Snow Cheese. — One and one-half ounce sweet almonds, 1 
tablespoon of ratifia, 2 tablespoons of rose water, 1 quart 
of cream, juice of 3 lemons, 3 ounces of sugar; blanch the 
almonds and pound, add the ratifia and rose water, stir it 
into the quart of cream, add the strained juice of the 
lemons and sugar; whisk the mixture until it begins to 
thicken; pour nuts in the mold and set to cool. It will be 
ready in 12 hours.— Mrs. F. F. Lyden, Baltimore, Md. 

Egg Timbales.— For 6 persons use V2 dozen eggs, 3 gills of 
milk, 1 teaspoon of salt, Vs of a teaspoon of pepper, 1 tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley and V4 of a teaspoon of onion 
juice; break the eggs into a bowl and beat them well with 
a fork, then add the seasoning and beat for a minute 
longer. Now add the milk and stir well. Butter 8 timbale 
molds of medium-size and pour the mixture into them. 
Put the molds in a deep pan and pour in enough hot water to 
come almost to the top of the molds. Place in a moderate 
oven and cook until firm in the center; about 20 minutes; 
then turn out on a warm dish and pour a cream or tomato 
sauce around them. This is a nice dish for breakfast, 
luncheon or tea.— Mrs. J. D. Collins, Atlanta. 

Queen of Pudding's.— Eight eggs, pint of milk, pound of 
sugar, 4 spoons of flour or corn starch and a pinch of salt, 
heaping spoon of butter, flavor with vanilla; put the milk 
and nearly all the sugar and butter on to boil ; mix flour 



P. S. 145 

with a little cold water until a smooth paste, then beat into 
it the yolks of the eggs ; add the salt ; while the milk is boil- 
ing have the whites beaten stiff, adding only enough sugar 
to sweeten delicately, more will cause meringue to fall ; beat 
the yolks of eggs and flour into the boiling milk and sugar ; 
as soon as it thickens pour into pudding bowl and place the 
whites on top ; bake slowly till meringue is a light brown. — 
Miss Martha Harris, High Shoals, Ga. 

Orange Pudding 1 .— Grate rind and squeeze the juice of 2 
oranges or lemons ; stir together with V2 pound of butter, ^ 
pound of sugar and a wineglass of mixed wine and brandy ; 
beat 6 eggs very light and gradually add them; bake ^hour; 
when cool grate sugar over it. — Mrs. Dora Adams Hopkins, 
Atlanta. 

Old-Fashioned Mince Meat.— Four pounds of tender beef, 
IV2 pounds suet, 8 pounds chopped apples, 3 pounds currants, 
washed, dried and picked, 3 pounds seeded raisins, 6 pounds 
sugar (brown will do), 2 pounds citron (chopped), 2 pounds 
large oranges (grated rind, juice and pulp), 4 large lemons 
(ditto), 1 ounce of cinnamon, ^4 ounce of cloves (ground), 
14 ounce of mace, Vi ounce of allspice, 4 nutmegs (grated), 1 
quart Madeira wine, 1 pint brandy, 1 cup of strawberry or 
raspberry jam, 1 cup of quince preserves, 2 cups of molas- 
ses, 2 cups of vinegar, salt to taste ; use the water that the 
meat was boiled in and cook as long as you see fit. — Mrs. L. 
P. Leary, Atlanta. 

Beef Tea (For Invalids).— One-half pound tender beef 
(no fat), cut in bits; put in glass bottles, with top well screwed 
on (can add a little water), place in kettle of boiling water 



146 P. S. 

20 minutes, take out, shake well; this quantity makes 1 cup 
of rich tea.— Mrs. George B. Heard, LaGrange, Ga. 

French Biscuits.— Make a light dough with sweet milk and 
baking powder ; roll thin and dot with small pieces of fresh, 
sweet butter, sprinkle sugar over all and roll ; cut in pieces 
an inch thick and place in biscuit pan ; let rise in a warm 
place about 5 minutes and bake in quick oven ; powdered 
cinnamon, nutmeg or any other spices may be sprinkled in 
with the sugar, according to taste.— Miss Mattie Elkin, 
Lancaster, Ky. 

Gumbo-for 3 O'clock Dinner (Six Plates ).— 1 chicken fried 
and bones mashed, 3 slices ham fried and minced, 1 pint 
dried okra, 3 tomatoes, egg size, 1 onion, 1 handful parsley, 
1 large tablespoon lard, 1 green pepper, 1 kettle of boiling 
water, 1 tablespoon flour, salt and pepper to taste; have the 
pot in which you wish to make your gum bo on the stove hot 
at 10 o'clock a. m., and put in the lard; when it is boiling, 
stir in the flour immediately, and quickly stir in the onions, 
parsley, tomatoes, green pepper, all having been previously 
cut up together; then drop in the okra, stirring all the time, 
pour in boiling water, and season with salt and pepper to 
your taste; stew all well, cover it and let it boil pretty hard 
for half an hour (but not over a blaze), then slower and 
slower; at 12 o'clock, put in the chicken and ham ; occasion- 
ally stir the gumbo until ready to serve, with rice.— Mrs. 
Anna B. Nickles, Laredo, Texas. 

Sponge Cake Roll.— Four eggs, beaten separately, 1 teacup 
sugar, 1 teacup flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar mixed in the 
flour, V2 teaspoon soda in a little water ; bake quickly in a 



P. S. 147 

biscuit pan, turn out on a damp towel, put jelly between, 
and serve while warm.— Mrs. G. W. D. Cook, Atlanta. 

Puff Pudding 1 .— Ten tablespoons flour, 3 cups milk, 4 eggs, 
1 teaspoon melted butter; bake 20 minutes in square tins. 
Sauce for Pudding : One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, mix 
well together, add 1 cup boiling milk, flavor with wine or 
vanilla.— Mrs. C. A. Nichols, Springfield, Mass. 

Croutons.— Slice some stale bread, remove the crust, cut 
in small dice, heat some butter in a pan on the fire; when it 
is boiling, drop in the bread ; shake frequently till light golden 
brown ; the butter should nearly cover the bread ; when done, 
in about 1 minute, remove with a skimmer to brown paper 
in the open mouth of the oven; when dry, serve on a cut 
paper at the same time with tomato soup, or any other puree. 
— Mrs. E. A. Angier, Atlanta. 

Corn Muffins.— One pint sifted meal and 3 gills milk, 1 
pint sour milk, or 1 gill sour cream, 2 tablespoons boiling 
hot lard, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, x /2cup sugar; add the eggs, 
beaten separately, to meal and milk; pour on lard, boiling 
hot. — Miss Sawyer, Sapelo Island, Mcintosh Co., Ga. 

Lemon Sauce.— The whites of 2 eggs, beaten, with 1 cup 
of white sugar. Pour on it 1 cup of boiling milk. Just be- 
fore serving add the juice of a lemon.— Mrs. W. C. Glenn, 
Atlanta. 

White Cake.— The whites of 4 eggs, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup 
sugar, V2 cup butter, V2 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon of yeast 
powder.— Mrs. Mary Cook, Atlanta. 



148 P. S. 

Turtle Soup. — Three teaspoons of cinnamon (ground), 3 
teaspoons of mace, 1 teaspoon of brown sugar, V3 teaspoon 
of spice, 1 heaping teaspoon of butter, V2 tumbler of pepper 
vinegar, % tumbler of sherry or Madeira wine, salt, 1 dozen 
eggs boiled hard and cut up, a little brown flour to thicken 
it, 6 onions (medium size) cut up fine and boiled with the 
turtle. Take the turtle out of the soup, pick out the bones, 
and put the turtle, cut up fine, back in soup. Canned turtle 
will do, using 2 cans for above proportions and putting in 
a little piece of fat bacon about 3 inches square. The brand 
of canned turtle is best with green turtle on box. — Mrs. E. 
P. Howell, West End. 

Chocolate Caramel Cake.— One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
3 cups flour, 4 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 scant spoons of yeast pow- 
der; bake in 3 layers. Let the middle layer be heavily 
spiced, with 2 tablespoons brandy added. Filling: Two 
cups sugar, V2 cup butter, ^ cup milk, ^ cup water, spoon- 
ful vanilla, section of chocolate; boil until quite thick, stir- 
ing all the time, and beat until nearly cold.— Mrs. David W. 
Appier, Atlanta. 

Dainty Dinner or Tea Rolls.— Roll out pie crust dough y± 
inch thick, cut in pieces 3 inches wide, 6 inches long; spread 
first with butter, then add a layer of apple jelly ; roll and 
bake ; nice, hot or cold.— Mrs. Julia M. Watson, Atlanta. 

Vermicelli Toast. — One cup of milk, y 2 cup of flour, ^tea- 
spoon of salt, 3 full teaspoons of butter; boil milk, mix in 
flour and butter; boil 3 eggs hard, chop whites, put whites 
into this sauce and pour over toasted bread, grating the yel- 
lows of eggs over top of this. A little parsley added is good . 
—Miss Mattie Smith, Griffin, Ga. 



INDEX. 



Pages. 

Soups 5-8 

Oysters and Fish 9-13 

Meats 13-24 

Pickles 25-28 

Vegetables 28-33 

Salads 33-39 

Bread 39-46 

Cakes 47-63 

Puddings and Custards 63-78 

Gelatines 78-85 

Chafing Dish Recipes . 85-90 

Frozen Desserts 90-100 

Confectionery 100-104 

Beverages 104-111 

Menus 112-113 

P. S 114r-148 



1HUCKINS 

&HBJ1 1 — i 




ESTABLISHED 1855, 



These Soups: 



Gained the Medaille d'Honneurat the Paris 
Exposition Universelle, in 1889 ; also, Medal 
and Diploma, World's Fair, Chicago, 1893. 
They are rich and heavy-bodied, and per- 
fectly seasoned, being- manufactured from the 
best materials the markets afford at all sea- 
sons of the year, and will keep in any climate. 
There is positively no extract or gelatine 
used, and they are warranted pure and 
unadulterated. The HUCKINS SOUPS 
commend themselves to every housekeeper 
as being- suited to the epicurean palate, ex- 
celling the best home preparation — and what 
a saving in time to have these First-class 
Soups at your elbow in the hour of need. 

Sold by all Qrocers throughout the Nation, 



AN ODORLESS • • • • 

REFRIGERATOR ! 




This is a sectional view 
showing the mode of opera- 
tion of Bead's Odorless Ke- 
frigerator, in which you 
can put onions, bananas, 
raspberries, peaches, cant- 
aloupes, in fact, all kinds 
of vegetables, fruits, meats, 
fish, cheese, or 

Anything that has an Odor, 
together with milk and but- 
ter, leaving the two latter 
in open vessels, 

Without Contamination. 
It consumes from one-third 
to one-half less ice than 
other refrigerators, and it 

Needs no Washing Out. 
Kefrigerators for hotels, 
grocers, dairymen, florists 
and fruit dealers built to 
order on short notice. On 
sale in Atlanta by TheHun- 
nicutt & Bellingrath Co. 



PATENTED JULY, 1895. 



KKYSKR & CO., 



SOLE MANUFACTURERS . 



Chattanooga, Tenn., U. S. A. 



Can recommend above refrigerator. Am now using it and find it all that is claimed. 
Mrs. Henry L. Wilson. 



THE C. A. REESER CO. 

INNISFALLEN GREENHOUSES. 

URBANA, OHIO. 

Growers of and dealers in Roses, Geraniums, Chrysanthemums and all varieties of 
Seeds, Bulbs and Plants. A few of our bargains : 

Col. A.— Ten fine assorted double and single Hyacinths. 

Col. B.— Twenty-five fine assorted single and double mixed Tulips, all colors. 

Col. C. — Seventy fine assorted Crocuses ; all colors mixed. 

Col. D.— Ten assorted double and single Narcissus. 

Col. E.— Twenty-five Freesias ; grown with little care ; hosts of lovely blossoms ; deli- 
cious perfume. 

Col. F.— Five Lilium Harrisii; white Easter Lily; easy to grow; sure to bloom. 

Col. G.— Three fine bulbs of Lily Auratum. 

Col. H.— Five Hyacinths (double and single), ten Crocuses (assorted), six Tulips, two 
Sparaxis, two Triteleas, two Narcissus, two Ixias, two Alliums, two Tritonas, four Free- 
sias. This collection is intended more especially for winter flowering. 

Col. J.— Collection of bulbs for outdoor bedding, Five Hyacinths (assorted colors), 
ten Tulips, (double and single), twelve Crocuses (all colors mixed), two Narcissus, four 
Iris, six Scillas, four Anemones, one Glory of the Snow. 

Col. K.— Twelve beautiful ever-blooming Roses. 

Send for our Fall Catalogue with full list of Flowering Bulbs, etc. Address 

THE C. A. REESER CO., 
Drawer B. Urbana, Ohio. 

LaGrange Banking&Trust Company, 

LaGRANCE, ga. 

CAPITAL, $150,000.00. ^a g E0 ; A ; C0 S D P " R - Presi D dent .; 1 , 

mS B. C. FERRELL, Vice President. 

SURPLUS, $100,000.00. ^ J. T. JOHNSON, Cashier. 
■ ... Do a General Banking Business ■ ■ . ■ 

V. E. LAMBERT, 

Seedsman and Florist. 

FRESH SEEDS AND PLANTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION IN THEIR SEASON. 

Bulbs, Nursery Stock, Etc. Cut Flowers a Specialty. 

•PHONE 783. 

No. 11 N. Broad Street, ATLANTA, GA. 



A Magazine 
Always up 
To Date 



is the one progressive women want. To help to cook, eat, 
serve and live well is the chief aim of 

Table Talk 

the American authority on culinary and household topics. 
It treats of the economies and necessities of the table, as 
well as luxuries and dainties. It gives the latest recipes 
and fashions; menus for weddings, receptions, dinners, 
card parties and all special occasions. Terms, $1.00 per 
year ; 10 cents, current issue, or sample copy free. 

Table Talk Publishing Co., 

1 1 13 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. 




Wheeler & Wilson's 

HIQH=ARM 

New No. Q 

THE ONLY PERFECT SEWING 
MACHINE FOR FAMILY USE. . 

Call on. or address 

WHEELER & WILSON 
MANUFACTURING CO. 



71 Whitehall St., ATLANTA, GA. 



Maier & Berkele, 




Jewelers 



Diamonds, Watches, 



Cut Glass, Silverware, 

Novelties, 



Official Souvenir Spoon of the 

Cotton States and International Exposition, 



We engrave wedding invitations and calling cards in 
the highest style known to the art. Write us for prices for 
anything in our line and we will make them as low as any 
reliable firm can give. We refer you to the Atlanta Na- 
tional Bank, also Capital City Bank, as to our responsibility. 



We will send goods on selection with satisfactory reference. 

H Maier & Berkele, H 

31 Whitehall Street. ATLANTA, QA. 



) 

The Largest Manufacturers of 

PURE, HIGH GRADE 

COCOAS and CHOCOLATES 

On this Continent, have received 



IT 



from the great 




Industrial and Food 

EXPOSITIONS 

1 IN EUROPE AND AMERICA. 



Unlike the Dutch Process, 

no Alkalies, or other Chemicals 
or Dyes are used in any of their 
preparations. Their delicious 



IT 



is absolutely pure and soluble, and 
costs less than otie cent a ctip. 



SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE. 



WALTER BAKER & CO., Dorchester, Mass. 



I'UlU 



^ 



£rt:x..,, i :x , :*i i :r*:S x 



ESTABLISHED 1877. INCORPORATED 1889. 

<§> mmnowr ® © © • 



Ti 

STOVES, FURNITURE, BABY CARRIAGES, 

. . . HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS, Etc . . . . 

Imperial French Steel Plate Ranges a Specialty. 

S5 &q4 87 WHITEHALL &o4 M jlj a, /f=i 

70 m4 72 @ROA® STREBTJ . /^.f E^I^CK^p QE 

Mrs. Kate O'Connor, 

= Fine = nTLLiHSRY = 

AT DOUGLAS, THOMAS & DAVISON'S, 
- 61 Whitehall Street, Atlanta, Ga. 



MRS. A. E. ASHWORTH, 

1 ASHI0NABL I Dressmaker, 

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED, 

Over Douglas, Thorrias & Davison's. 



Panopepton. 



Bread aipd Bee? Peptone. 

PANOPEPTON is the entire edible substance of prime lean beef and 
best wheat flour, thoroughly cooked, properly digested, sterilized and 
concentrated in vacuo and preserved in a sound Sherry. 

PANOPEPTON is the food par excellence for invalids; in all acute 
diseases, fevers, etc.; in convalescence; for the large class of persons 
who, from feebleness or deranged digestion, or antipathy to ordinary 
foods, require a fluid, agreeable and quickly assimilable food. 

PANOPEPTON proves an effective resource against sleeplessness 
when this is due to excessive fatigue, stress of mental work or mal- 
nutrition. 

PANOPEPTON is at once a grateful stimulant and food. 

PANOPEPTON should not be mixed with milk or any other food, but 
should be taken pure or with cracked ice or carbonic water. For an 
adult, the usual portion should be a tablespoonful several times a day 
and at bedtime. 



. . . ORIGINATED AND MANUFACTURED BY . . . 

Fairchild Bros. & Foster, 

^NEW YORK. 



A GREAT WORK. 



• • • 



"The Cotton States and International 



^1^ Exposition and South Illustrated" o 

Will be devoted to Southern progress, and will show the Exposition 
and the South at its best, giving biographical sketches of its leading 
men and women, with handsome engravings of a few of those holding 
leading positions in its progress and culture. The volume will be 
printed upon the finest enameled paper and bound in handsome morocco 
and gilt, and altogether will be the most elegant and select work of its 
kind ever gotten up, and from start to finish will be of Southern work- 
manship and material. It deserves the hearty indorsement and support 
of every believer in the progress of the South. A handsome prospectus 
of this work has been issued by the Southern States Publishing Com- 
pany, who have an active corps now at work gathering the material 
for this work with great care. 

A few more active, energetic lady and gentleman representatives 
can still be accommodated with territory in which they may solicit 
material for this great work. Apply General Office, No. 523 Equitable 
Building. 



Majestic Steel Ranges 



MAJESTIC 

Complete. 




Are the 

Best Constructed. 
Of the 

Best Material. 

They 

Never Break. 

Never Wear Out. 



Sold by Good Dealers Everywhere 



The Cheapest 

Dry Goods House 
On Earth. 

Everything; in First-class Dry Goods, No- 
tions, Ladies' and Men's Furnishings, at 
Reduced Prices. 




E. M. BASS & CO., 

The I^&die^' Bazaar, 
37 Whitehall Street. ATLANTA, GA, 




h 



ouseKee-pe^s 



P < 



We are headquarters for all 
kinds of House-furnishing 
and Kitchen Ware. We keep 
all the latest and best goods 
of this kind. When you can't 
find what you want anywhere 
else, come to see us and you 
can get it. We have the 
largest trade in Atlanta for 
such goods, as we have what 
the people want and at 
prices to please. Are you 
one of our customers? If not, 
why not? Examine the 
Gurney Refrigerator. 

iKlNG---- 
HARDWARE CO. 

. . . fItPso2 ta, Ga. . . . 



5fc i?5i 



MISS MARY RYAN,*** 

FarcGV/ arcH flair GoocLs. 

45" Whitehall Street, Atlanta, Georgia. 

_ — , — _^ 

Stilson 8t Gollins Jewelry Go. 

Successors to Fred. J. Stilson. 

Diar?2©T2cL$, Watc^Bs^ 

ea.3 Jewefr^ SS Whiteha " Street ' 

RefiaSfe GooSs. ATLANTA, GA. 

Fair Dealing and Bottom Prices. 




The Barnes & Davis 

EXCELSIOR 



Quickest and best method 
of canning fruits and veg= 
etables. 



11HIS machine will enable the house- 
keeper to put up fruit and vegeta- 
bles with one-third the trouble of the old 
way and obviates the necessity of stand- 
ing over a hot stove to handle the fruits 
and vegetables during the process of 
cooking and canning. This process re- 
tains the entire flavor of the fruits and 
vegetables and does the work in less 
than one-third the ordinary time. 

The Generator or Pan is first filled 

about two-thirds full of clear water and 

placed on any kind of stove, making as 

much heat as possible While waiting 

for the water to boil to generate steam. 

the fruits or vegetables are prepared and 

the jars filled with cold raw fruit away 

from the stove, and then taken to the 

machine, placed directly under the steam 

tube and the tube pushed down to the 

bottom through the center of the jar. 

The tube turns on the steam as it reaches the bottom of the jar and cooks the contents 

evenly and thoroughly in a very short time, leaving the fruit in the same position in the 

jar as when placed there cold, adding a great deal to its appearance. 

Each machine is supplied with a safety valve, which lets the steam off when all the 
tubes are raised, thus insuring absolute safety. Directions with each machine. 

No housekeeper who puts up fruits and vegetables for winter use can afford to be 
without this Canning Machine. 

Will be sent to any address in the United States on receipt of $5.00. 



PATENT APPLIED FOR. 



BARNES & DAVIS, 

Orlando, Fla. 



