REFERENCE 



G2 



' 



NY PUBL.C LIBRARY THE BRANCH L BRAR ES 



3 3333 05991 9965 



THE 
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 



* * * 



PRESENTED BY 




'f; \L CHILDREN'S ROOM 

CENTER 

N.Y. 10019 



kci)m6 














1 



' rv>A->' I 

,.- 






5 : 




THE DEADLY AM ANITA'. 



Our Edible 
Toadstools and Mushrooms 

and 

How to Distinguish Them 

A Selection of Thirty Native Food Varieties 
Easily Recognisable by their Marked Indi- 
vidualities, icith Simple Rules for the 
Identification of Poisonous Species 




BY W. HAMILTON GIBSON 

WITH THIRTY COLORED PLATES 
AND FIFTY-SEVEN OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE AUTHOR 



NEW YORK 

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 
1895 



THE WORKS OF W. HAMILTON GIBSON. 

ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR. 



SHARP EYES. A Rambler's Calendar among Birds, Insects, and 
Flowers. 8vo, $5 oo. 

HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS; or, Saunterings in New England. 
4to, $7 50. 

STROLLS BY STARLIGHT AND SUNSHINE. Royal Svo, $ 3 50. 

HAPPY HUNTING-GROUNDS. A Tribute to the Woods and 
Fields. 4to, $7 50. 

PASTORAL DAYS; or, Memories of a New England Year. 
4 to, $7 50. 

CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS, and the Tricks of Trapping and 
Trap-making. i6mo, $i oo. 

PUBLISHED HY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK. 



Copyright, 1895, by HARPER & BROTHERS. 

All rights reserved. 






, . , , , 





,..' 
i < i * * < i 



PROPERTY OF THE 
CITY i: YORK 




^*t- 



, . : . 






"For those who do hunger after the earthlie 
excrescences called mushrooms." GERARDE. 



, , , , 1 1 . i 

','., i % . 

> : , i < i ... 

.' : .' : . : V / , ; 




Page 
INTRODUCTION 

THE DEADLY AMANITA . . 43 

THE AGARICACE.-E 77 

THE POLYPOREI 181 

MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI . . 231 

SPORE-PRINTS 277 

RECIPES 299 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 325 

(INDEX 

, 



i ":*t v >Vi^w : 4^;W * s-\^'-\ 




., 

I/- nit,, _S ' C- 




1. The Deadly "Amanita". ........ Frontispiece 

2. Mycelium, and early vegetation of a mushroom ... 45 

3. Amanita vernus development ... 49 

4. Agaricus (Amanita) muscarius . -55 

5. Agaricus campestris ............. 8} 

6. Agaricus campestris various forms of 89 

7. Agaricus gambosus 99 

8. Marasmius oreades. "Fairy-ring" . 105 

9. Poisonous Champignons. M. nrens M.peronatus. . . in 

10. Agaricus procerus ..... . 117 

11. Agaricus (Russula) virescens 123 

12. Edible Russula?. R. hetcropMla R. alntacea R. lepida . 131 

13. Russula emetica 139 

14. Agaricus ostreatus .145 

15. Agaricus ulmarius 151 

16. Coprinus comatus 157 

17. Coprinus atramentarius 163 

18. Lactarius deliciosus 169 

19. Cantharellus cibarius 175 

20. Boletus edulis 187 

21. Boletus scaber . IQ3 



X LIST ()K PLATES 



PAT.R 



22. Edible Boleti. B.snbtonientosnsB.cbrysenteron .... 199 

23. Strobilomyces strobilaceus 2os 

24. Suspicious Boleti. R.fi'llensB.ak'eolatns 211 

25. Fistulina hepatica 217 

26. Polyporus sulphureus 225 

27. Hydnum repandum 235 

28. Hydnum caput-medusce 241 

29. Hydnum caput-medusa? habitat 243 

30. Clavaria formosa 251 

31. Various forms of Clavaria 253 

32. Morchella esculenta 259 

33. Helvetia crispa 265 

34. A group of Puff-balls 271 

35. Spore-surface and spore-print of Agaricus 283 

36. Spore-surface and spore-print of Polyporus (Bo/etna) . 285 

37. Spore-print of Ainanita muscarius 289 

38. Action of slight draught on spores 291 










* 



The Spurned Harvest 



"Whole hnndred- 

ii -eights of rich, whole - 

some diet rotting under the 

trees; ivoods teeming with 

food and not one band to 

gather it ; and this, perhaps, in 

the midst of poverty and all 

manner of privations and 

public prayers against 

imminent famine. ' 





C. D. BADHAM , 






M. ^ **. 



- 



pjssl - " 

Jm ^" r ;. "^ 

M.,, r ... ' '( , ,>p 



.- M 

^-3? 





PROMINENT botanical authority con- 
nected with one of our universities, 
upon learning of my intention of per- 
petrating a popular work on our ed- 
ible mushrooms and toadstools, was inclined 
to take issue with me on the wisdom of such 
publication, giving as his reasons that, owing 
to the extreme difficulty of imparting exact 
scientific knowledge to the " general reader," such a 
work, in its presumably imperfect interpretation by 
the very individuals it is intended to benefit, would 
only result, in many instances, in supplanting the 
popular wholesome distrust of all mushrooms with 
a rash over-confidence which would tend to increase 
the labors of the family physician and the coroner. 
And, to a certain extent, in its appreciation of the 
difficulty of imparting exact science to the lay mind, 
his criticism was entirely reasonable, and would cer- 
tainly apply to any treatise on edible mushrooms for 
popular circulation which contemplated a too exten- 
sive field, involving subtle botanical analysis and nice 
differentiation between species. 



2 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But when we realize the fact now generally con- 
ceded that most of the fatalities consequent upon 
mushroom - eating are directly trace- 
identifkation ab | e to Qne p art j cu i ar tempting group 

fatal species of fungi, and that this group is more- 
over so distinctly marked that a tyro 
could learn to distinguish it, might not such a pop- 
ular work, in its emphasis by careful portraiture and 
pictorial analysis of this deadly genus placarding 
it so clearly and unmistakably as to make it readily 
recognizable might not such a work, to that extent 
at least, accomplish a public service ? 

Moreover, even the most conservative mycologist 
will certainly admit that out of the hundred and fifty 
of our admittedly esculent species of 
Conservative fungi there might be segregated a few 
mycology which bear such conspicuous charac- 
ters of outward form and other unique 
individual features --such as color of spores, gills, 
and tubes, taste, odor, surface character, color of 
milky juice, etc. as to render them easily recogniz- 
able even by the " general reader." 

It is in the positive, affirmative assumption of these 
premises that the present work is prepared, com- 
prising as it does a selection of a score or more, as 
it were, self-placarded esculent species of fungi, while 
putting the reader safely on guard against the fatal 
species and a few other more or less poisonous or 
suspicious varieties which remote possibility might 
confound with them. 

Since the publication of a recent magazine article 
on this topic, and which became the basis of the pres- 



INTRODUCTION 3 

ent elaboration, I have been favored with a numerous 
and almost continuous correspondence upon mush- 
rooms, including letters from every 
Popular State j n tne u n j on to say no thinof of 
interest in ... 

mushrooms Canada and New Mexico, evincing the 

wide -spread interest in the fungus 
from the gustatory point of view. The cautious 
tone of most of these letters, in the main from neo- 
phyte mycologists, is gratifying in its demonstration 
of the wisdom of my position in this volume, or, as 
one of my correspondents puts it, " the frightening of 
one to death at the outset while extending an invita- 
tion to the feast." " Death was often a consequence 
of toadstool eating," my friend continued, " but I 
never before realized that it was a certain result with 
any particular mushroom, and to the extent of this 
information I am profoundly thankful." 

While, then, from the point of view of desired popu- 
larity of my book, the grim greeting of a death's-head 

upon the frontispiece might be consid- 

Caution at ered as something of a handicap, the 

the threshold author confesses that this attitude is 

the result of " malice prepense " and 
deliberation, realizing that he is not offering to the 
" lay public," for mere intellectual profit, this scientific 
analysis of certain fungus species. Were this alone 
the raison d'etre or the logical outcome of the work 
mere identification of edible and poisonous species 
the grewsome symbol which is so conspicuous on 
two of my pages might have been spared. But when 
it is remembered that with the selected list of escu- 
lent mushrooms herein offered is implied also an in- 



4 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

vitation and a recommendation to the feast thereof, 
with the author as the host --that the digestive func- 
tions of his confiding friends or guests are to be 
made the final arbiters of the correctness of his bo- 
tanical identification the ban of bane may as well 

* 

be pronounced at the threshold. Let the too eager 
epicurean be " scared to death at the outset," on the 
general principle pro bono publico, and to the concilia- 
tion of the author's conscience. 

The oft-repeated queries of other correspondents 
surest the wisdom of a clearer definition of the 

OO 

limitations of the present work. Sev- 
To corre= eral individuals have written in surprise 
spondents o f their discovery of a new toadstool 

which I " did not include in my pict- 
ured magazine list," with accompaniment of more or 
less inadequate description and somewhat enigmatical 
sketches, and desiring the name of the species and 
judgment upon its esculent qualities. Such corre- 
spondence is a pleasing tribute to an author, and is 
herewith gratefully acknowledged as to the past and, 
with some mental reservations, welcomed as to the 
future. The number of these communications oc- 
casionally several in a day, and with consequent rapid 
accumulation renders it absolutely impossible for a 
busy man to give them the prompt personal atten- 
tion which courtesy would dictate. My " mushroom " 
pigeon-hole, therefore, is still plethoric with the un- 
honored correspondence of many weeks ; and inas- 
much as the continual accession more than balances 
the number of my responses, a fulfilment of my obli- 
gations in this direction seems hopeless in contem- 



INTRODUCTION 5 

plation. I would therefore beg the indulgence of 
such of my friends as have awaited in vain for my 
reply to their kind communications, even though the 
future should bring no tidings from me. All of 
these letters have been received, and are herewith 
acknowledged : many of them, too, if I may be par- 
doned what would seem to be a most ungracious 
comment, for which the " dead-letter " office would 
have been the more appropriate destination. 

I refer to the correspondence " with accompany- 
ing specimens," the letter occasionally enclosed in 
the same box with the said specimens, 
Consider the which, upon its arrival, arouses a protest 
recipient from the local postal authorities, and 
calls for a liberal use of disinfectants 
a disreputable -looking parcel, which, indeed, would 
appear more consistently referable to the health- 
board than to the mycologist. So frequent did this 
embarrassing episode become that it finally necessi- 
tated the establishment of a morgue for the benefit 
of my mushroom correspondents, or rather for their 
" specimens," usually accompanied with the queries, 
" What is the name of this mushroom ? Is it ed- 
ible ?" I have been obliged to write to several of my 
friends that identification of the remains was impos- 
sible, that the remnant was more interesting ento- 
mologically than botanically, and begging that in the 
future all such similar tokens shall be forwarded in 
alcohol or packed in ice. 

" First impressions are lasting " and " a word to 
the wise is sufficient." I would suggest that corre- 
spondents hereafter consider the hazard of an intro- 



6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

duction under such questionable auspices. Most spe- 
cies of mushrooms are extremely perishable, and 
their " animal " character, chemically 
considered, and their tendency to rapid 
.decomposition, render them unfit for 
transportation for any distance, unless 
hermetically sealed, or their decay otherwise antici- 
pated. 

In the possibility of a continuance of this corre- 
spondence, consequent upon the publication of this 
present book, the writer, in order to forefend a pre- 
sumably generous proportion of such correspondence, 
would here emphasize the fact that he is by no 
means the authority on mycology, or the science 
of fungi, which the attitude of his inquiring friends 
would imply. Indeed, his knowledge of species is 
quite limited. An early fascination, it is true, was 
humored with considerable zeal to the accumulation 
of a portfolio of water-colors and other drawings of 
various fungi- -microscopic, curious, edible, and poi- 
sonous and this collection has been subsequently 
added to at intervals during his regular professional 
work. 

More than one of the originals of the accompany- 
ing colored plates have been hidden in this portfolio 
for over twenty years, and a larger number for ten 
or fifteen years, awaiting the further accumulation of 
that knowledge and experience, especially with refer- 
ence to the edibility of species, which should warrant 
the utterance of the long-contemplated book. 

The reader will therefore kindly remember that 
out of the approximate 1000 odd species of fungi en- 



INTRODUCTION 7 

titled by their dimensions to the dignity of " toad- 
stools " or " mushrooms " -after separating the 2000 
moulds, mildews, rusts, smuts, blights, 
Number of y eas ts, " mother," and other microscopic 

mushroom J 

species species and out or the 150 recom- 
mended edible species, the present work 
includes only about thirty. This selection has direct 
reference to popular utility, only such species having 
been included as offer some striking or other indi- 
vidual peculiarity by which they may be simply iden- 
tified, even without so-called scientific knowledge. 

The addition of color to the present list enables 
its extension somewhat beyond the scope of a series 
printed only in black and white, as in the distinction 
of mere form alone an uncolored drawing of a certain 
species might serve to the popular eye as a common 
portrait of a number of allied species, possibly includ- 
ing a poisonous variety. 

While the study of " fungi " has a host of devotees, 

the mysteries which involve the origin of life in this 

great order of the cryptogamia having 

Mycology and had fascinating attractions to micro- 

mycophagy scopical students and specialists, the 
study of economic mycology has been al- 
most without a champion in the United States. Thus 
we have many learned treatises on the nature, struct- 
ure, and habits of fungi --vegetative methods, chem- 
ical constituents, specific characters, classification- 
learned dissertations on the microscopical moulds, 
mildews, rusts and smuts, blights and ferments, to 
say nothing of the medico-scientific and awe-inspiring 
potentialities of the sensational microbe, bacterium 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

bacillus, etc., which are daily bringing humanity with- 
in their spell and revolutionizing the science of medi- 
cine. But among all the various mycological publi- 
cations we look in vain for the great desideratum of 
the practical hand-book on the economic fungus 
the mushroom as food ! The mycologist who has 
been courageous enough to submit his chemical 

o o 

analysis and his botanical knowledge of 

Need of f u no;i to the test of esculence in his own 
a practical 

work being is a rara avis among them ; in- 
deed, a well-known authority states that 
" one may number on the fingers of his two hands 
the entire list of mycophagists in the United States." 
The absence of such works upon the mushroom and 
" toadstool," greatly desired for reference at an early 
period of my career, and little better supplied to- 
day, led to a resolve of which this volume is but an 
imperfect fulfilment. 

The special character of my volume, then --the 
collateral consideration of the fungus as food will 
be sufficient excuse for the omission of 
Limitations of a merely technical discourse upon the 
this volume structure, classification, and vegetation 
of fungi as a class a field so fully cov- 
ered by other authors more competent to discuss 
these lines of special science, and to a selection of 
whose works the reader is referred in the list here- 
with appended, to a number of which I am indebted 
for occasional quotations. A general idea of the 
methods of dissemination and habitats of fungi will 
be found in the final chapter on " spore-prints," while 
under the discussion of the " Amanita," Agaricus 



INTRODUCTION 9 

campcstris, and the " Fairy Ring " the reader is re- 
ferred to a condensed account of the methods of ves:- 

O 

etation and growth of fungi sufficient for present 
purposes. Other references of similar character will 
be noted under " Fungi," in Index. 

The most conspicuous disciple of mycophagy al- 
most the pioneer, indeed, in America --was the late 
Rev. M. A. Curtis, of North Carolina, 

The pioneer wnose name heads the bibliography on 

American 

mycophagist page 325. For the benefit of those of 
my readers who may wish to follow 
the subject further than my pages will lead them, 
I append the list of edible species of fungi contained 
in Curtis's Catalogue, each group alphabetically ar- 
ranged, the esculent qualities of many of which he 
himself discovered and attested by personal experi- 
ment. The favorite habitat of each fungus is also 
given, and to avoid any possibility of confusion in 
scientific nomenclature or synonymes, the authority 
for the scientific name is also given in each instance : 

LIST OF EDIBLE AMERICAN MUSHROOMS 
FROM THE CATALOGUE OF DR. M. A. CURTIS 

Agaricus albdliis. De Candolle. Damp woods. 

A. (amanita) Ccesarea. Scopoli. In oak forests. 

A. (amanita) rubesccns. Persoon. Damp woods. 

A. (amanita) strobiliformis. Vittadini. Common in woods. 

A. amygdalinus. M. A. Curtis. Rich grounds, woods, and lanes. 

A, arvensis. Schaeffer. Fields and pastures. 

A. bombidnus. Schaeffer. Earth and carious wood. 

A. campestris. Linnaeus. Fields and pastures. 

A. castus. M. A. Curtis. Grassy old fields. 

A. cespitosus. M. A. Curtis. Base of stumps. 

A. colnmbetta. Fries. Woods. 

A. consociatus. Pine woods. 



10 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Agaricus cretaceits. Fries. Earth and wood. 

A. esculcntus. Jacquin. Dense woods. 

A. excoriatus. Fries. Grassy lands. 

A. frumentaceous. Bulliard. Pine woods. 

A. gigantcus. Sowerby. Borders of pine woods. 

A. glandulosus. Bulliard. Dead trunks. 

A. hypopithyus. M. A. Curtis. Pine logs. 

A. mastoideus. Fries. Woods. 

A. melleus. Valmy. About stumps and logs. 

A. mutabilis. Schaeffer. Trunks. 

A. nebularis. Batsch. Damp woods. 

A. odorus. Bulliard. Woods. 

A. ostreatus. Jacquin. Dead trunks. 

A. personatus. M. A. Curtis. Near rotten logs. 

A.pometi. Fries. Carious wood. 

A. procerus. Scopoli. Woods and fields. 

A. prunulus. Scopoli. Damp woods. 

A. rachodes. Vittadini. Base of stumps and trees. 

A, radicatus. Bulliard. Woods. 

A. (russula). Schaeffer. Among leaves in woods. 

A. salignus. Persoon. On trunks and stumps. 

A. speciosus. Fries. Grassy land. 

A. squamosus. Muller. Oak stumps. 

A. sylvaticus. Schaeffer. Woods. 

A. tessdlatus. Bulliard. Pine trunks. 

A. ulmarius. Sowerby. Dead trunks. 
Boletus bovinus. Linnaeus. Pine woods. 

B. castaneus. Bulliard. Woods. 
B. collinitus. Fries. Pine woods. 
B. eduhs. Bulliard. Woods. 

B. ekgans. Fries. Earth in woods. 

B.flavidus. Fries. Damp woods. 

B.granulatus. Linnaeus. Woods and fields. 

B. Inteus. Linnaeus. Pine woods. 

B. scaber. Bulliard. Sandy woods. 

B. subtomeiitosus. Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

B. rersipellis. Fries. Woods. 

Bovista nigresccns. Persoon. Grassy fields. 

B. plumbea. Persoon. Grassy fields. 
CiinthareJlus cibarius. Fries. Woods. 
Clavaria aiirea. Schaeffer. Earth in woods. 

C. botritis. Persoon. Earth in woods. 
C. cristata. Holmskiold. Damp woods. 
C.fastigiata. Linnaeus. Grassy places. 
C. flara. Fries. Earth in woods. 
C.formosa. Persoon. Earth in woods. 



INTRODUCTION II 

Clavaria fuliginea. Persoon. Shady woods. 

C. macropiis. Persoon. Earth. 

C. muscoides. Linnaeus. Grassy places. 

C.pyxidata. Persoon. Rotten woods. 

C. ntgosa. Bulliard. Damp woods. 

C. subtilis. Persoon. Shaded banks. 

C. tctragona. Schwartz. Damp woods. 

Coprinus atramentarius. Eulliard. Manured ground. 

C. comatus. Fries. In stable-yards. 

Cortinarius castancus. Fries. Earth in woods. 

C. cinnamomeus. Fries. Earth and wood. 

C. violaceus. Fries. Woods. 

Fistulina Jiepatica. Fries. Base of trunks and stumps. 

Helvella crispa. Fries. Pine in woods. 

H. infula. Schaeffer. Earth and pine logs. 

H. laciinosa. Afzelius. Near rotten logs. 

H. sukata. Afzelius. Shady woods. 

Hydnum caput- medusas. Bulliard. Trunks and logs. 

H. coralloidcs. Scopoli. Side of trunks. 

H. imbricatnm. Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

H. laevigatum. Schwartz. Pine woods. 

H. repandum. Linnaeus. Woods. 

H. rufescens. Schaeffer. Woods. 

H. subsquamosum. Batsch. Damp woods. 

Hygrophorus eburneus. Fries. Woods. 

H. pratensis. Fries. Hill-sides. 

Lactarius augustissimus. Lasch. Thin woods. 

L. delitiosus. Fries. Pine woods. 

L. insiilsus. Fries. Woods. 

L.pipcratus. Fries. Dry woods. 

L. siibdulcis. Fries. Damp grounds. 

L. volemns. Fries. Woods. 

Lycopcrdon bovista. Linnaeus. Grassy lands. 

Pachyma cocos. Fries. Underground. 

Paxilliis involutits. Fries. Sandy woods. 

Polyporus Berkeleii. Fries. Woods. 

P. couflitens. Fries. Pine woods. 

P. cristatus. Fries. Pine woods. 

P. f randoms. Fries. Earth and base of stumps. 

P. gigantens. Fries. Base of stumps. 

P. leucomdas. Fries. Woods. 

P. ovinus. Schaeffer. Earth in woods. 

P. poripcs. Fries. Wooded ravines. 

P. sulphurous. Fries. Trunks and logs. 

Marasmius oreades. Fries. Hill-sides. 

M. scorodoneus. Fries. Decaying vegetation. 



12 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

MorcheUa Carohniana. Bosc. Earth in woods. 
M. escuknta. Persoon. Earth in woods. 
Russula alutacea. Fries. Woods. 
R. lepida. Fries. Pine woods. 
R. virescens. Fries. Woods. 
Sparassis crispa. Fries. Earth. 
S. laminosa. Fries. Oak logs. 
Tremella mesenterica. Retz. On bark. 



In the contemplation of such a generous natural 
larder as the above list implies, Dr. Badham's feeling 
allusion to the " hundred-weights of wholesome diet 
rotting under the trees," quoted in one of my earlier 
illustrated pages, will be readily appreciated. 

In the purposely restricted scope of these pages 

I have omitted a large majority of species in Dr. 

Curtis's list, known to be equally es- 

Restncted cu l e nt with those which I have select- 
scope Of thlS 77- 

volume ed, but whose popular differentiation 
might involve too close discrimination 
and possibly serious error; and while my list is 
probably not as complete as it might be with per- 
fect safety, the number embraces species, nearly all 
of them what may be called cosmopolitan types, to 
be found more or less .commonly throughout the 
whole United States and generally identical with Eu- 
ropean species. It will be observed that the list of 
Dr. Curtis is headed by three members of Amanitae. 
The particular species cited are well known to be 
esculent, but they are purposely omitted from my list, 
which for considerations of safety absolutely excludes 
the entire genus Amanita of the "poison-cup" which 
is discussed at some length in the succeeding chapter. 
For popular utility from the food standpoint my se- 



INTRODUCTION 13 

lection presents, to all intents and purposes, a more 
than sufficient list, the species being easily distin- 
guished, and, with proper consideration to their fresh- 
ness, entirely safe and of sufficient frequency in their 
haunts to insure a continually available mushroom 
harvest throughout the entire fungus season. 

The knowledge of their identities once acquired, 

it is perfectly reasonable to assert that in average 

weather conditions the fungus-hunter 

O 

Fungus food mav C onflne himself to these varieties 

always J 

available and still be confronted with an embar- 
rassment of riches, availing himself of 
three meals a day, with the mere trouble of a ramble 
through the woods or pastures. Indeed, he may 
restrict himself to six of these species the green 
Russula, Puff-ball, Pasture - mushroom, Campestris 
(meadow -mushroom), Shaggy-mane, and Boletus cdu- 
lis and yet become a veritable mycological gour- 
mand if he chooses, never at a loss for an appetiz- 
ing entree at his table. 

In the group of Russulas and Boleti alone, more 
than one conservative amateur of the writer's ac- 
quaintance finds a sufficient supply to meet all diet- 
ary wants. 

What a plenteous, spontaneous harvest of delicious 
feasting annually goes begging in our 
A neglected woods and fields ! 
harvest The sentiment of Dr. Badham, the 

eminent British authority on mush- 
rooms, years ago, in reference to the spontaneous 
perennial harvest of wild edible fungi which abound- 
ed in his country, going to waste by the ton, would 



14 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

appear to be as true to-day for Britain as when he 
uttered it, and applies with even greater force to the 
similar, I may say identical, neglected tribute of Nat- 
ure in our own American woods and fields, where the 
growth of fungi is especially rich. 

The fungus-eaters of Britain, it is said, are even 
to-day merely a conspicuous coterie, while in Amer- 
ica this particular sort of specialist is 
Fungus more generally an isolated " crank " who 
epicures J s compelled to " flock alone," contem- 
plated with a certain awe by his less 
venturesome fellows, and otherwise variously consid- 
ered, either with envy of his experience and scientific 
knowledge, or more probably as an irresponsible, who 
continually tempts Providence in his foolhardy ex- 
periments with poison. 

But what a contrast do we find on the Continent in 
the appreciation of the fungus as an article of diet ! 
In France, Germany, Russia, and Italy, for example, 
where the woods are scoured for the perennial crop, 
and where, through centuries of popular familiarity 
and tradition, the knowledge of its economic value 
has become the possession of the people, a most im- 
portant possession to the poor peasant who, perhaps 
for weeks together, will taste no other 
Chemical animal food. I say " animal food " ad- 
constituents visedly; for, gastronomically and chem- 
ically considered, the flesh of the mush- 
room has been proven to be almost identical with 
meat, and possesses the same nourishing properties. 
This animal affinity is further suggested in its physi- 
ological life, the fungus reversing the order of all 



INTRODUCTION 15 

other vegetation in imbibing oxygen and exhaling 
carbonic acid, after the manner of animals. It is not 
surprising, therefore, that the analogy should be still 
further emphasized by the discrimination of the pal- 
ate, many kinds of fungi when cooked simulating the 
taste and consistency of animal food almost to the 
point of deception. 

But in America the fungus is under the ban, its 
great majority of harmless or even wholesome ed- 
ible species having been brought into 

Popular popular disrepute through the contami- 

distrust Of . & . 

fungi nation, mostly, ot a single small genus. 

In the absence of special scientific 
knowledge, or, from our present point of view, its 
equivalent, popular familiarity, this general distrust 
of the whole fungus tribe may be, however, consid- 
ered a beneficent prejudice. So deadly is the insid- 
ious, mysterious foe that lurks among the friendly 
species that it is well for humanity in general that 
the entire list of fungi should share its odium, else 
those " toadstool ' fatalities, already alarmingly fre- 
quent, might become a serious feature in our tables 
of mortality. 

But the prejudice is needlessly sweeping. A little 
so-called knowledge of fungi has often proven to be 
a " dangerous thing," it is true, but it 
Fungus food is quite possible for any one of ordinary 
for all intelligence, rightly instructed, to mas- 
ter the discrimination of at least a few 
of the more common edible species, while being thor- 
oughly equipped against the dangers of deadly vari- 
eties, whose identification is comparatively simple. 



l6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It is idle to attempt an adjudication of the vexed 
" toadstool " and " mushroom ' question here. The 
toad is plainly the only final, appealable 
authority on this subject. It may be 
mushroom" questioned whether he is at pains to de- 
termine the delectable or noisome qual- 
ities from the human standpoint of a particular 
fungus before deciding to settle his comfortable pro- 
portions upon its summit if, indeed, he even so 
honors even the humblest of them. 

The oft-repeated question, therefore, " Is this fungus 
a toadstool or a mushroom?" may fittingly be met by 
the counter query, " Is this rose a flower or a blossom?" 
The so-called distinction is a purely arbitrary, pop- 
ular prejudice which differentiates the " toadstool " as 
poisonous, the " mushroom " being considered harm- 
less. But even the rustic authorities are rather mixed 
on the subject, as may be well illustrated by a recent 
incident in my own experience. 

Walking in the woods with a country friend in 

quest of fungi, we were discussing this " toadstool ' 

topic when we came upon a cluster of 

Popular mushrooms at the base of a tree-trunk, 

discrimination their broad, expanded caps apparently 

upholstered in fawn-colored, undressed 

kid, their under surfaces being stuffed and tufted in 

pale greenish hue. 

" What would you call those ?" I inquired. 
" Those are toadstools, unmistakably," he replied. 
" Well, toadstools or not, you see there about two 
pounds of delicious vegetable meat, for it is the com- 
mon species of edible boletus Bolctiis cdulis" 



INTRODUCTION 17 

A few moments later we paused before a beautiful 
specimen, lifting its parasol of pure white above the 
black leaf mould. 

" And what is this ?" I inquired. 

" I would certainly call that a mushroom," was his 
instant reply. 

This mushroom proved to be a fine, tempting speci- 
men of the Agaricus (amanita) vermis, the deadliest 
of the mushrooms, and one of the most violent and 
fatal of all known vegetable poisons, whose attractive 
graces and insidious wiles are doubtless continually 
responsible for those numerous fatalities usually dis- 
missed with the epitaph, " Died from eating toad- 
stools in mistake for mushrooms." 

So much, therefore, for the popular distinction which 
makes " toadstool " a synonyme for " poisonous," and 
" mushroom " synonymous with " edible," and which 
often proves to be the " little knowledge " which is 
very dangerous. 

The too prevalent mortality traceable to the mush- 
room is confined to two classes of unfortunates: 
i. Those who have not learned that 

aJthoHtTes on therG Is SUch a thin . as a fatal mush ' 
" mushrooms" room; 2. The provincial authority who 

can " tell a mushroom " by a number of 
his so-called infallible " tests " or " proofs." There is a 
large third class to whose conservative caution is to 
be referred the prevalent arbitrary distinction be- 
tween " toadstool " and " mushroom," ardent disciples 
of old Tertullian, who believed in regard to toadstools 
that " For every different hue they display there is 
a pain to correspond to it, and just so many modes 



I 8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of death as there are distinct species," and whose 
obstinate dogma, " There is only one mushroom, all 
the rest are toadstools," has doubtless spared them 
an occasional untimely grave, for few of this class, 
from their very conservatism, ever fall victims to the 
" toadstool." 

And what a self-complacent, patronizing, solicitous 
character this rustic mushroom oracle is ! Go where 
you will in the rural districts and you are sure of 
him, or perhaps her usually a conspicuous figure 
in the neighborhood, the village blacksmith, perhaps, 
or the simpler " Old Aunt Huldy." Their father 
and " granther " before them " knew how to tell a 
mushroom," and this enviable knowledge has been 
their particular inheritance. 

How well we more special students of the fungus 
know him ! and how he wins our tender regard with 
his keen solicitude for our well-being ! We meet him 
everywhere in our travels, and always with the same 
old story ! We emerge from the wood, perhaps, with 
our basket brimful of our particular fungus tidbits, 
topped off with specimens of red Russula and Bole- 
tus, and chance to pass him on the road or in the 
meadow. He scans the basket curiously as he passes 
us. He has perhaps heard rumors afloat that " there's 
a city chap in town who is tempting Providence with 
his foolin' with tudstools ;" and with genuine solici- 
tude and superior condescension and awe, all be- 
trayed in his countenance, he must needs pause in 
his walk to relieve his mind in our behalf. I recall 
one characteristic episode, of which the above is the 
prelude. 



INTRODUCTION 19 

" Ye ain't a-goin' to eat them, air ye ?" he asks, anx- 
iously, by way of introduction. 

" I am, most certainly," I respond ; " that is, if I 
can get my good farmer's wife to cook them without 
corning them and inundating them in 
Rustic lemon-juice." 

discrimination Waal, then, I'll say good-bye to ye," 
he responds, with emphasis. " Why, 
don't ye know them's tudstools, 'n 1 they'll kill ye as 
sartin as pizeu? I wonder they ain't fetched ye afore 
this. You never larned tew tell mushrooms. My 
father et 'em all his life, and so hev I, 'n' I know 
'em. Come up into my garden yender 'n' I'll show 
ye haow to tell the reel mushroom. There's a lot 
of 'em thar in the hot-bed naow. Come along. I'll 
give ye a mess on 'em if ye'll only throw them pizen 
things away." 

" And how do you know that those in your garden 
are real mushrooms ?" I inquire. 

" Why, they ain't anything like them o' yourn. 
They're pink and black underneath, and peel up from 
the edge." 

" How many kinds of mushrooms are there, do you 
suppose ?" I ask. 

" They's only the one kind ; all the others is tud- 
stools and pizen. It's easy to tell the reel mushroom. 
Come up and I'll show ye. Don't eat them things, I 
beg on ye ! I vaow they'll kill ye !" 

At this point he catches a glimpse of a Shaggy- 
mane mushroom, which comes to light as I tenderly 
fondle the specimens, and which is evidently recog- 
nized as an acquaintance. 



2O EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" What !" he exclaims, in pale alarm. " Ye airit 
goin' t' eat them too ? r 

" Oh yes I am, this very evening," I respond. " I 
think I'll try themyfr^." 

" Why, man, yure crazy ! You don't know nothin' 

about 'em. I'd as soon think o' eatin' pizen outright. 

Them's what we call black -slime tud- 

A rustic stools. They come up out o' manure. 

authority I've seen my muck -heap in my barn- 
yard covered with the nasty things time 
'n' ag'in. They look nice 'n' white naow, but they 
rot into the onsiteliest black mess ye ever see. I 
know wut I'm sayin'. Ye can't tell me nothin' 'baout 
them tudstools ! They keep comin' up along my 
barn-fence all thro' the fall bushels of 'em." 

" Well, my good friend, it's a great pity, then, that 
you have not learned something about toadstools as 
well as mushrooms, for you might have saved many 
a butcher's bill, and may in the future if you will 
only take my word that this much-abused specimen 
is as truly a mushroom as your pink-gilled peeler, 
and to my mind far more delicious." 

" What ! Do you mean to tell me thet you have 
reely eaten ^em /" 

"Yes, indeed; often. Why, just look at its clean, 
shaggy cap, its creamy white or pink gills under- 
neath ; take a sniff of its pleasant aroma ; and here ! 
just taste a little piece it's as sweet as a nut !" I 
conclude, offering him the white morsel. 

" Not much ! I'll make my will first, thank'ee ! 
You let me see ye eat a mess of 'em, and if the coro- 
ner don't get ye, p'r'aps I'll try on't." 



INTRODUCTION 21 

Experiences similar to this one are frequent in the 
career of every mycophagist, and serve to illustrate 
the pity and solicitude which he awakens among his 
fellow-mortals, as well as to emphasize 
"Toadstool" the prevalent superstitions regarding 
prejudice the comparative virtues of the mush- 
room and toadstool a prejudice which, 
by-the-way, in the absence of available popular liter- 
ature on the subject, and the actual dangers which 
encompass their popular distinction, is a most benef- 
icent public safeguard. 

The mushroom which " he can tell " is generally 
the Agaricus campestris, or one of its several vari- 
eties ; and knowing this alone, and 
Popu ^ a n r d tests tempted by no other, this sort of vil- 
superstitions lage oracle escapes the fate which of- 
ten awaits another class, who are not 
thus conservative, and who extend their definition of 
mushroom (a word supposed to be synonymous with 
" edible "), and this mainly through the indorsement 
of certain so-called infallible tests handed down to 
them from their forefathers, and by which the escu- 
lent varieties may be distinguished from the poison- 
ous. By these so-called "tests" or "proofs" the 
identification of certain species is gradually acquired. 
The rural fungus epicure now " knows them by 
sight," or perhaps has received his information sec- 
ond-hand, and makes his selection without hesitation, 
with what success may be judged from the incident 
in my own experience already noted - - one which, 
knowing as I did the frequency and confidence with 
which my country friend sampled the fungi at his 



22 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

table, filled me with consternation and anxiety for his 
future. 

" How, then, shall we distinguish a mushroom from 
a toadstool ?" 

There is no way of distinguishing them, for they 
are the same. 

" How, then, shall we know a poisonous toadstool 
from a harmless one ?" the reader hopelessly exclaims. 

This discrimination is by no means as difficult as 
is popularly supposed, but in the first place, the stu- 
dent must entirely rid himself of all preconceived 
notions and traditions, such as the following almost 
world-wide " tests," many of which are easily demon- 
strated to be worse than worthless, and have doubt- 
less frequently led to an untimely funeral. Some 
of these are merely local, and in widely separated 
districts are supplanted by others equally arbitrary 
and absurd, while many of them are as old as history. 



WORTHLESS TRADITIONAL TESTS FOR THE DISCRIMINA- 
TION OF POISONOUS AND EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

FAVORABLE SIGNS 

1. Pleasant taste and odor. 

2. Peeling of the skin of the cap from rim to centre. 

3. Pink gills, turning brown in older specimens. 

4. The stem easily pulled out of the cap and inserted in it 
like a parasol handle. 

5. Solid stems. 

6. Must be gathered in the morning. 

7. " Any fungus having a pleasant taste and odor, being found 
similarly agreeable after being plainly broiled without the least 
seasoning, is perfectly safe." 



INTRODUCTION 23 

UNFAVORABLE SIGNS 

8. Boiling with a "silver spoon," the staining of the silver in- 
dicating danger. 

9. Change of color in the fracture of the fresh mushroom. 

10. Slimy or sticky on the top. 

11. Having the stems at their sides. 

12. Growing in clusters. 

13. Found in dark, damp places. 

14. Growing on wood, decayed logs, or stumps. 

15. Growing on or near manure. 

1 6. Having bright colors. 

17. Containing milky juice. 

18. Having the gill plates of even length. 

19. Melting into black fluid. 

20. Biting the tongue or having a bitter or nauseating taste. 

21. Changing color by immersion in salt-water, or upon being 
dusted with salt. 

These present but a selection of the more preva- 
lent notions. Taken in toto, they would prove entirely 
safe, as they would practically exclude every species 
of mushroom or toadstool that grows. But as a rule 
the village oracle bases his infallibility upon two or 
three of the above <: rules," and inasmuch as the entire 
list absolutely omits the only one test by which dan- 
ger is to be avoided, it is a seven-days' wonder that 
the grewsome toadstool epitaph is not more frequent. 

I once knew an aged dame who was accepted as a 

village oracle on this as well as other topics, such 

as divining, palmistry, and fortune-tell- 

Absoiute j n2 r anc } wno ate and dispensed toacl- 
worthlessness ' 
of above tests stools on a few of the above rules. 

Strange to say, she lived to a good old 
age, and no increased mortality is credited to her 
memory as a result of her generosity. 



24 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

How are these popular notions sustained by the 
facts? Let us analyze them seriatim and confront 
each with its refutation, the better to show their en- 
tire untrustworthiness. 



POPULAR TESTS REFUTED 

Pleasant taste and odor (i) is a conspicuous feat- 
ure in the regular " mushroom " (Agaricus campestris\ 
and most other edible fungi, but as a 

Worthless criterion for safety it is a mockery. 

popular tests The deadly Agaricus amanita, already 
mentioned, has an inviting odor and to 
most people a pleasant taste when raw, and being 
cooked and eaten gives no token of its fatal resources 
until from six to twelve hours after, when its unfort- 
unate victim is past hope. (See p. 68.) 

The ready peeling of the skin (2) is one of the most 
widely prevalent proofs of probation, and is often 
considered a sufficient test ; yet the Amanita will be 
found to peel with a degree of accommodation which 
would thus at once settle its claims as a " mushroom.'* 
Indeed, a large number of species, including several 
poisonous kinds, will peel as perfectly as the Cam- 
pestris. 

T/ic pink gills turning brown (3) is a marked char- 
acteristic of the " mushroom " (A. campestris, Plate 5), 
and, being a rare tint among the fungus tribe, is really 
one of the most valuable of the tests, especially as it 
is limited by rules affecting other pink-gilled species. 

The stem being easily pulled out of tlie cap (4) ap- 



INTRODUCTION 25 

plies to several edible species, but equally to the poi- 
sonous. 

The notion that edible mushrooms have solid stems 

(5) would be a very unsafe talisman for us to take 

to the woods in our search for fungus- 

c> 

Worthless food. Many poisonous species are thus 
popular tests solid the emetic Russula, for example 
while the alleged importance of the 
morning specimens (6) is without the slightest foun- 
dation. 

The passage quoted here (7), or a statement to the 
same effect, was quite widely circulated in the news- 
papers a dozen or more years ago, in an article which 
bore all the indications of authoritative utterance, 
the assumption being that the poisonous mushroom 
would invariably give some forbidding token to the 
senses by which it might be discriminated. 

Woe to the fungus epicure who should sample his 
mushrooms and toadstools on such a criterion as this, 
as the most fatal of all mushrooms, the Amanita ver- 
nus, would fulfil all these requisites. 

The discoloration of silver (8) is a test as old as 
Pliny at least, a world-wide popular touchstone for the 
detection of deleterious fungi, but useful only in the 
fact that it will often exclude a poison not contem- 
plated in the discrimination. On this point, especially 
as it affords opportunity to emphasize a common dis- 
appointment of the mushroom-eater, I quote from a 
recent work by Julius A. Palmer (see Bibliography, 
No. 3): " Mushrooms decay very rapidly. In a short 
time a fair, solid fungus becomes a mass of mag- 
gots which eat its tissue until its substance is honey- 



26 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

combed ; these cells, on a warm day, are charged with 

the vapors of decomposition. Now you put such 

mushrooms as these (and I have seen 

Worthless just such on the markets of Boston and 
popular tests London) over the fire. In boiling, sul- 
phuretted hydrogen or other noxious 
gases are liberated ; you stir with a bright spoon and 
it is discolored ; proud of your test, you throw away 
your stew. Now this is right, but if from this you 
conclude that all fungus which discolors silver is poi- 
sonous and that which leaves it bright is esculent, you 
are in dangerous error. It is the same with fish at 
sea. Tradition says that you must fry a piece of sil- 
ver with them and throw them away if it discolors. 
Certainly the experiment does no harm, and shows a 
decomposition in both cases which might have been 
detected without the charm." Opposed to this so- 
called talisman, how grim is the fact that the deadli- 
est of all mushrooms, the Amanita, in its fresh condi- 
tion, has no effect upon silver. 

The change of color in fracture (9) has long been 
a ban to the fungus as food. But this would ex- 
clude several very delicious species, which turn blu- 
ish, greenish, and red when broken viz., Boletus sub- 
tomentosus (Plate 22), Boletus strobilaceus (Plate 23), 
and Lactarius (Plate 18). 

The "toadstools" with "sticky tops" thus discrimi- 
nated against (10) include a number of esculent spe- 
cies, Boleti and Russulae, and others, as do also the 
varieties with side-stems (n) viz., Agaricus ulma- 
rius (Plate 15), Fistulina hepatica (Plate 25), Agaricus 
ostreatus (Plate 14), etc. 



INTRODUCTION 27 

The clustered fungi (12) have long been included in 

the black-list without reason, as witness the following 

esteemed esculent species : The Shag- 

Worthless gy-mane (Plate 16), Coprinus atramen- 
popular tests tarius (Plate 17), Oyster mushroom 
(Plate 14), Elm mushroom (Plate 15), 
Puff-balls (Plate 34), and Champignon (Plate 8). 

To exclude all fungi which grow in dark, damp 
places (13) is a singular inconsistency, as in some 
localities this would eliminate the very one species of 
"mushroom" admittedly eatable by popular favor. 
In many countries these are regularly cultivated for 
market in dark, damp, subterranean caverns or in 
cellars. Indeed, the " dark, damp place" would appear 
to be the ideal habitat of this the " only mushroom !" 

Equally absurd is the discrimination against those 
growing on ivood (14), which again deprives us of 
the delicious Hydnum (Plate 27), the Beefsteak (Plate 
25), Oyster mushroom (Plate 14), Elm mushroom 
(Plate 15), and many others, including Puff-balls 
(Plate 34). If we exclude those growing upon or 
near manure (15), we shall be obliged to omit the 
Coprinus group (Plates 16 and 17), and often the 
" reel mushroom " as well. 

Among the bright-colored species (16), it is true, 
are many dangerous individuals, as, for instance, the 
deadly Fly Amanita of Plate 4, and the emetic 
Russula (Plate 13), but on this fiat we should have to 
reject the other brilliant esculent Russulae (Plates 1 1 
and 12), the brilliant yellow Chantarelle (Plate 19), 
the Lactarius (Plate 18), and various other equally 
palatable and wholesome species. 



28 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The objection against milky mushrooms (17) would 

serve to exclude the poisonous species of Lactarius, 

but would thus include at least two of 

Worthless the delicious species of the group, L. 
popular tests deliciosus, with orange milk (Plate 18), 
and L. piperatiis, another species with 
white milk not figured in this volume. 

The group of Russulae, most of which are esculent, 
is notable for their gills of even length (18), though 
not all the species are thus characterized. This 
discrimination, however, especially applies to the 
Shaggy-mane (Plate 16), which is conspicuously even- 
gilled, and is a decided delicacy. 

This species, together with its congener, the edible 
Coprimes atramentarius (Plate 17), are notorious for 
their melting into black fluid (19), which is thus of no 
significance as a test, although the mushrooms are not 
supposed to be eaten in this stage of deliquescence. 

A fungus which bites the tongue (20) when tasted 
would naturally be excluded from our mushroom diet, 
as would also, of course, those of a bitter or nauseat- 
ing taste ; but several species, notably the Lactarius 
piperatus, as its name implies, is very hot and peppery 
when raw a characteristic which disappears in cook- 
ing, after which it is perfectly esculent. The same 
applies in a scarcely less degree to the Agaricus 
melleus, and less so to the Hydnwn repandum (Plate 
27), and other mushrooms. But the poisonous Rus- 
sula emetica (Plate 13) gives this same hot, warning 
tang, and this rule (17) would at least thus exclude 
the harmful species, and is thus contributive to pop- 
ular safety. 



INTRODUCTION 29 

The salt test (21), with that of the silver charm, is 
also a relic of the dim past, but is absolutely useless 
as a touchstone. Many poisonous spe- 
Worthless cies, notably the Amanita, fail to answer 
popular tests to it. All authorities agree, however, 
that the addition of salt in cooking, or 
the preparatory soaking of specimens in brine, has a 
tendency to render poisonous species innocuous. In- 
deed, it is claimed that in Russia and elsewhere on 
the Continent many admittedly poisonous species, 
even the deadly Fly Amanita, is habitually eaten sub- 
sequent to this semi -corning process, by which the 
poisonous chemical principle is neutralized. 

Among this long list, and many other equally 

arbitrary and ignorant prejudicial traditions, many 

of which date back to the earliest 

Omission times, it is indeed astonishing to note 

of the only . 

true test the conspicuous absence ot the one and 
only valuable sign by which the fatal 
species could be unmistakably determined a symbol 
which was reserved for botanical science to discover: 
the presence of the " cup " in the Amanita, which is 
pointedly emphasized in my Frontispiece, and the im- 
portance of which as a botanical and cautionary dis- 
tinction is considered at more length in the following 
chapter. 

It is well to consider for a moment what is im- 
plied in 

"A POISONOUS MUSHROOM" 

A fungus may be poisonous in various ways : 
i. A distinct and certain deadly poison. 



30 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. The cause of violent digestive or other func- 
tional disturbance, but not necessarily fatal 

3. The occasion of more or less serious physical 
derangement through mere indigestibility. 

4. Productive of similar disorders through the em- 
ployment of decayed or wormy specimens of perfectly 
esculent species. 

5. These same esculent species, even in their fresh 
condition, may become highly noxious by contact or 
confinement with specimens of the Amanita by the 
absorption of its volatile poison, as further described 
on p. 69. 

And lastly comes the question of idiosyncrasy, a 
consideration which is of course not taken into ac- 
count in our recommendation of cer- 
Concerning tain well-established food varieties. 
idiosyncrasy " One man's food another man's poi- 
son." The scent of the rose is some- 
times a serious affliction, and even the delicious straw- 
berry has repeatedly proven a poison. Even the 
most wholesome mushroom will occasionally require 
to be discriminated against, as certain 
Decaying individuals find it necessary to exclude 
mushrooms cabbage, milk, onions, and other com- 
mon food from their diet. When we 
reflect, moreover, that in its essential chemical affin- 
ities the fungus simulates animal flesh, and many 
of the larger and more solid varieties 

O 

Fresh are similarly subject to speedy decom- 

specimens position, it is obviously important that 

all fungi procured for the table should 

be collected in their prime, and prepared and served as 



INTRODUCTION 31 

quickly as possible. More than one case of supposed 
mushroom poisoning could be directly traced to care- 
lessness in this regard, when the species themselves, 
in their proper condition, had been perfectly whole- 
some. 

There can be no general rule laid down for the 

O 

discrimination of an edible fungus. Each must be 

learned as a species, or at least famil- 

NO general iarized as a kind, even as we learn to 

rule for . . 1-1 

identification recognize certain flowers, trees, or birds. 
Within a certain range this discrim- 
ination is practised by the merest child. How 7 are 
the robin, the chippy, and the swallow recognized, or 
the red clover, and white clover, and yellow clover ? 
Even in the instances of species which bear a very 
close outward similarity, how simple, after all, does 
the distinction become. Here, for in- 
Simpie stance, is the wild-lettuce, and its mimic, 

botanical 

discrimination the mulgedium, growing side by side 
to ninety-nine out of a hundred observ- 
ers absolutely alike, and apparently the same species. 
But how readily are they distinguished, I will not say 
by the botanist merely, but by any one who will take 
the small pains of contrasting their specific botanical 
characters perfectly infallible, no matter how vari- 
ous the masquerade of their foliage. The lettuce has 
yellow blossoms, and a seed prolonged into a long 
beak, to whose tip the feathery pappus is attached. 
The mulgedium has dull bluish flowers, and its pap- 
pus is attached to the seed by a hardly perceptible 
elongation. As with the birds and wild-flowers, so 
with the fungi: we must learn them as species, even 



32 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as we learn to distinguish the difference between the 
trefoil of the clover and that of the wood -sorrel, or 
between the innocuous wild-carrot and the poison- 
hemlock, the harmless stag-horn sumach and its 
venomous congener, the Rhus vencnata. There are 
parallel outward resemblances between esculent and 
poisonous fungi, but each possesses otherwise its 
own special features by which it may be identified 
variations of gills, pores, spores, taste, odor, color, 
juice, consistency of pulp, method of decay, etc. 

It must not be presumed that the list of edible 
species just cited from the catalogue of Dr. Curtis 
includes all the esculents among the fungi. Dr. 
Harkness has discovered and classified many others. 
Mr. Palmer and Prof. Charles Peck are never at a 
loss for their "mess of mushrooms" among their list 
of nearly a hundred species, while Mr. Charles Me II- 
vaine, whose name, so far as its practical authority 
is concerned, should appear more prominently in my 
bibliographical list, but who has not yet incor- 
porated his many mycological essays in book form, 
writes me that he has tested gastronomically a host 
of species, and has found over three hundred to be 
edible, or at least harmless. It may be said that the 
probabilities would include a large majority of the 
thousand species in the same category. But this is 
a matter which, in the absence of absolute knowl- 
edge, is mere conjecture. 

Of the forty-odd species which the writer enjoys 
with more or less frequency at his table, he is satis- 
fied that he can select at least thirty which possess 
such distinct and strongly marked characters of form, 



INTRODUCTION' 33 

structure, and other special qualities as to enable 
them, by the aid of careful portraiture and brief de- 
scription, to be easily recognized, even by a tyro. 

As previously emphasized, the present work does 
not aim to be complete, nor does it contemplate a 
practical utility beyond its specific recommendations, 
nor will the author assume any responsibility for the 
hazard which shall exceed its restricted list of species. 

On general principles, however, considering the 
proneness of humanity towards the acquisition of for- 
bidden fruit, and reasoning from my 

Humanity Qwn ac t_ ua } experience, and that of 

forbidden fruit many others to whom this fascinating 
hobby of epicurean fungology has be- 
come a growing passion, it may almost be assumed 
that the fungus appetite with many of my readers 
will increase by what it feeds on, and the sufficiency 
herewith offered will scarcely suffice. Like Oliver 
Tvvist, they must needs have more. The glory of a 
new acquisition to the fungus menu, and emulation 
of other rival tyro mycophagists, will doubtless lead 
many enthusiasts to more or less hazardous experi- 
ment among the legion of the unknown species. 
This logical tendency, then, must be met ere my 
book can safely and conscientiously be launched 
upon its career, to which purpose I would append 
the following condensed 

RULES FOR THE VENTURESOME 

i. Avoid every mushroom having a cup, or S2igg-es- 
tiou of such, at base (see Frontispiece, and Plates 3 
and 4) ; the distinctly fatal poisons are thus excluded. 



34 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. Exclude those having an unpleasant odor, a 
peppery, bitter, or other unpalatable flavor, or tough 
consistency. 

3. Exclude those infested with worms, or in ad- 
vanced age or decay. 

4. In testing others which will pass the above pro- 
bation let the specimen be kept by itself, not in con- 
tact with or enclosed in the same basket with other 
species, for reasons given on page 69. 

Begin by a mere nibble, the size of a pea, and gen- 
tle mastication, being careful to swallow no saliva, and 
finally expelling all from the mouth. 
Testing If no noticeable results follow, the next 

new species trial, with the interval of a day, with 
the same quantity may permit of a 
swallow of a little of the juice, the fragments of the 
fungus expelled as before. 

No unpleasantness following for twenty-four hours, 
the third trial may permit of a similar entire fragment 
being swallowed, all of these experiments to be made 
on "an empty stomach." If this introduction of the 
actual substance of the fungus into the stomach is 
superseded by no disturbance in twenty-four hours, a 
larger piece, the size of a hazel-nut, may be attempted, 
and thus the amount gradually increased day by day 
until the demonstration of edibility, or at least harm- 
lessness, is complete, and the species thus admitted 
into the " safe " list. By following this method with 
the utmost caution the experimenter can at best suffer 
but a slight temporary indisposition as the result of 
his hardihood, in the event of a noisome species hav- 



INTRODUCTION 35 

ing been encountered, and will at least thus have the 
satisfaction of discovery of an enemy if not a friend. 

It may be said that any mushroom, omitting the 
Amanita, which is pleasant to the taste and other- 
wise agreeable as to odor and texture when raw, is 

O 

probably harmless, and may safely be thus ventured 
on with a view of establishing its edibility. A prom- 
inent authority on our edible mush- 
nr. riciivaine's rooms, already mentioned, applies this 
general rule rule to all the Agarics with confidence. 
" This rule may be established," he 
says: "All Agarics excepting the Amanita: mild 
to the taste when raw, if they commend themselves 
in other ways, are edible." This claim is borne out 
in his experience, with the result, already told, that 
he now numbers over one hundred species among 
his habitual edible list out of the three hundred 
which he has actually found by personal test to be 
edible or harmless. " So numerous are toadstools," 
he continues, " and so well does a study of them 
define their habits and habitats, that the writer never 
fails upon any day from April to December to find 
ample supply of healthy, nutritious, delicate toadstools 
for himself and family'.' The italicized portion is 
my own, as I would thus emphasize the similar pos- 
sibilities amply afforded even in the present con- 
densed list of about thirty varieties herein described. 
In gathering mushrooms one should be supplied 
with a sharp knife. The mushroom should be care- 
fully cut off an inch or so below the cap, or at least 
sufficiently far above the ground to escape all signs 
of dirt on the stem. They should then be laid gills 



36 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

upward in their receptacle, and it is well to have a 

special basket, arranged with one or two removable 

bottoms or horizontal partitions, which 

Hints to are k e p|- [ n pl ace by upright props 

mushroom= ... . 

gatherers within, thus relieving the lower layers 
of mushrooms from the weight of those 
above them. Such a basket is almost indispensable. 

Before preparing mushrooms for the table, the 

specimens should be carefully scrutinized for a class 

of fungus specialists which we have 

insects no j. taken into account, and which have 

infesting 

mushrooms probably anticipated us. The mush- 
room is proverbial for its rapid de- 
velopment, but nature has not allowed it thus to 
escape the usual penalties of lush vegetation, as wit- 
ness this swarming, squirming host, minute grubs, 
which occasionally honey-comb or hollow its entire 
substance ere it has reached its prime ; indeed, in 
many cases, even before it has fully expanded or 
even protruded above ground. 

Like the carrion-flies, the bees, and wasps, which in 

early times were believed to be of spontaneous origin 

-flies being generated from putrefac- 

History of tion, bees from dead bulls, and the mar- 
fungus insects tial wasps from defunct "war-horses" 
these fungus swarms which so speed- 
ily reduce a fair specimen of a mushroom to a melt- 
ing loathsome mass, were also supposed to be the 
natural progeny of the u poisonous toadstool." But 
science has solved the riddle of their mysterious om- 
nipresence among the fungi, each particular swarm 
of grubs beings the witness of a former visit of a ma- 

o o 



INTRODUCTION 37 

ternal parent insect, which has sought the budding 

fungus in its haunts often before it has fully revealed 

itself to human gaze, and implanted 

History of within its substance her hundred or 

fungus insects more eggs. To the uneducated eye 

these larvae all appear similar, but the 

specialist in entomology readily distinguishes between 

them as the young of this or that species of fly, gnat, 

or beetle. 

As an illustration of the assiduity with which the 
history of these tiny scavenger insects has been follow- 
ed by science, I may mention that in the gnat group 
alone over seven hundred species have been discov- 
ered and scientifically described, many of them re- 
quiring a powerful magnifier to reveal their identities. 

Specimens of infected or decaying mushrooms pre- 
served within a tightly closed box and, we would 
suggest, duly quarantined will at length reveal the 
imago forms of the voracious larvae: generally a swarm 
of tiny gnats or flies, with an occasional sprinkling 
of small glossy black beetles, or perhaps a beautiful 
indigo -blue insect half an inch in length, of most 
nervous habit, and possessed of a long and very ac- 
tive tail. This insect is an example of the curious 
group of rove-beetles staphylinus a family of insect 
scavengers, many of whose species depend upon the 
fungi for subsistence. 

Even the large woody growth known as " punk '' 
or " touchwood," so frequently seen upon decaying 
trunks, is not spared. A huge specimen in my keep- 
ing was literally reduced to dust by a single species 
of beetle. 



38 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Considering the prevalence of these fungus hosts, 
it is well in all mushrooms to take the precaution 
of making a vertical section through 
A wise stem and cap, excluding such speci- 
precaution mens as are conspicuously monopo- 
lized, and not being too critical of the 
rest, for the over - fastidious gourmet will often 
thus have little to show for his morning: walk. I 

O 

have gathered a hundred specimens of fungi in 
one stroll, perhaps not a quarter of which, upon 
careful scrutiny, though fair of exterior, would be 
fit for the table. The f ungus- hunter par excellence 
has usually been there before us and left his mark 
(see page 135) a mere fine brown streak or tunnel, 
perhaps, winding through the pulp or stem, where 
his minute fungoid identity is even yet secreted. 
But we bigger fungus -eaters gradually learn to ac- 
cept him if not too outrageously promiscuous 
as a natural part and parcel of our Hachis aux 
Champignons, or our simple mushrooms on toast, 
even as we wink at the similar lively accessories 
which sophisticate our delectable raisins, prunes, and 
figs, to say nothing of prime old Rochefort ! 

MUSHROOM POISONING 

In conclusion, lest these pages, in spite of the im- 
press of caution with which they are weighted, should 
lead to discomfiture, distress, or more serious results 
among their more careless readers, it is well to devote 
a few lines to directions for medical treatment where 
such should seem to be required. To this end I 
quote a passage from an article in the Therapeutic 



INTRODUCTION 39 

Gazette of May, 1893, from the pen of Mr. Mcllvaine, 
whose many years' experience with gastronomic fun- 
o-i entitles his words to careful consideration : 

O 

" The physician called upon to treat a case of toad- 
stool poisoning need not wait to query after the va- 
riety eaten ; he need not wish to see a 
Diagnosis sam ple. His first endeavor should be 

and 

treatment to ascertain the exact time elapsing be- 
tween the eating of the toadstools and 
the first feeling of discomfort. If this is within four 
or five hours one of the minor poisons is at work, and 
rapid relief must be given by the administration of 
an emetic, followed by one or two moderate doses of 
sweet-oil and whiskey, in equal parts. Vinegar is ef- 
fective as a substitute for sweet-oil. If from eight to 
twelve hours have elapsed, the physician may rest as- 
sured that amanitine is present, and should adminis- 
ter one-sixtieth of a grain of atropine at once." 

This atropine is intended to be injected hypoder- 
mically, and the treatment repeated every half -hour 
until one-twentieth of a grain has been given, or the 
patient's life saved. 

Further consideration of the Amanita and its 
deadly poison and antidote, with details as to treat- 
ment in a notable case, will be reserved for the fol- 
lowing chapter. 

The colored plates in the volume were prepared 
from pencil drawings tinted in water-color, many of 
them direct from nature, several dating back fifteen 
years, and many of them over twenty years, for their 
original sketch. The colors as presented indicate 
those of typical individuals of the various species, and 



40 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

each, in addition to the extended description in the 
text of the volume, is faced by a condensed description 
for ready reference, the usual troublesome necessity 
of turning the pages being thus avoided. 

In each plate dimension marks are shown which 
indicate the expansion of the pileus or cap of the 
fungus in an ideal specimen. 



In the preparation of this work, acknowledgments 

are specially due to Messrs. Julius A. Palmer and 

Charles Mcllvaine for the privilege of 

Acknowledg= liberal quotations from their published 

ments works, especially with reference to the 

poisonous fungi. The volume is also 

further indebted for occasional extracts from the 

standard works of Prof. Chas. Peck, Mrs. T. J. Hus- 

sey, Rev. Dr. C. D. Badham, Rev. Dr. M. C. Cooke, 

Rev. J. M. Berkeley, Worthington Smith, and Rev. 

M. A. Curtis, all of whose volumes and various other 

contributions on the special subject of mycophagy 

are included in my bibliography on a later page. 

W. HAMILTON GIBSON 

October i, 1894 WASHINGTON, CONN. 



k,- 






'1C 







v t 

'' 



C'~ > 
J 








HE frequency of this terrible foe in all 
our woods, and the ever- recurring fa- 
1 talities which are continually traced to 
its seductive treachery (some twenty -five 
deaths having been recorded in the public 
journals during the summer of 1893 alone), render 
it important that its teeth should be drawn, and its 
portrait placarded and popularly familiarized as an 
archenemy of mankind. 

As we have seen, from every superficial standpoint, 
this species is self-commendatory. It is, without 
doubt, in comeliness, symmetry, and 
A whited structure, the ideal of all our mush- 
sepulchre rooms, as it is, indeed, the botanical 
type of the tribe Agaricus, as well as 
its most notorious genus. Since the time of that 
carousing young lunatic Nero, who, doubtless, was 
wont to make merry with its " convenient poison," 
upon one occasion, it is recorded by Pliny, to the 
presumably amusing extinction of the entire guests 
of a banquet, together with the prefect of the guard 
and a small host of tribunes and centurions, the 
Amanita has claimed an army of victims. 

While giving no superficial token of its dangerous 



44 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

character to the casual observer, the Amanita, as a 
genus and a species, is nevertheless easily identified, 
if the mushroom collector will for the moment con- 
sider it from the botanical rather than 

. J Ea !!l^ ^ the sensuous or eustatorial standpoint. 
identified 

botanicaiiy The deadly Amanita need no longer 

impose upon the fastidious feaster in 

the guise of the dainty " legume " of his menu, or as 

a contaminating, fatal ingredient in the otherwise 

wholesome ragout. 

o 

In Plate 3 I have presented the reprobate Amanita 
vcrnus in its protean progressive proportions from in- 
fancy to maturity. This is especially 
Amanita desirable, in that the fungus is equally 
vernus dangerous as an infant, and also be- 
cause the development of its growth 
specially emphasizes botanicaiiy the one important 
structural character by which the species or genus 
may be easily distinguished. Let us, then, consider 
the specimen as a type of the tribe Agaricus (gilled 
mushroom, see p. 79), genus Amanita. 

Year after year we are sure of finding this species, 
or others of the genus, especially in the spring and 
summer, its favorite haunt being the woods. Its 
spores, like other mushrooms, are shed upon the 
ground from the white gills beneath, as described in 
our chapter on " Spore-prints," or wafted to the ends 
of the earth on the breeze, and eventually, upon hav- 
ing found a suitable habitat, vegetate in the form of 
webby, white, mould-like growth --mycelium which 
threads through the dead leaves, the earth, or decaying 
wood. This running growth is botanicaiiy considered 



< 
o 



r 
c 



PI 

O 



> 
^ 




THE DEADLY AMANITA 47 

as the true fungus, the final mushroom being the 
fruit, whose function is the dissemination of the 
spores. After a rain, or when the conditions are 
otherwise suitable, a certain point among this webby 
tangle beneath the ground becomes 
Vegetation suddenly quickened into astonishing 
of an Agaric cell-making energy, and a small round- 
ed nodule begins to form, which con- 
tinues to develop with great rapidity (Plate 2). In a 
few hours more it has pushed its head above ground, 
and now appears like an egg, as at A, Plate 3. The 
successive stages in its development are clearly in- 
dicated in the drawings. Each represents an interval 
of an hour or two, or more, the most suggestive and 
important feature being the outer envelope, or volva, 
which encloses the actual mushroom at first com- 
pletely, then in a ruptured condition, until in the ma- 
ture growth the only vestige of it which appears 
above ground are the few shreds generally, though 
not always, to be seen on the top of the cap. The 
most important character of this deadly Amanita is, 
therefore, apparently with almost artful 
The danger malice prepense, often concealed from 
signal cur view in the mature specimen, the 
only remnant of the original outer sack 
being the cup or socket about the base of the stem, 
which is generally hidden under ground, and usually 
there remains after we pluck the specimen. 

This " poison-cup " may be taken as the cautionary 
symbol of the genus Amanita, common to all the spe- 
cies. Any 'mushroom or toadstool, therefore, ivhose 
stem is thus set in a socket, or which has any suggestion 



48 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of suck a socket, should be labelled "poison "; for, though 

some of the species having this cup are edible, from 

the popular point of view, it is wiser and certainly 

safer to condemn the entire group. 

The But the cup must be sought for. We 

poison=cup shall thus at least avoid the possible 

danger of a fatal termination to our 

o 

amateur experiments in gustatory mycology ; for, 
while various other mushrooms might, and do, in- 
duce even serious illness through digestive disturb- 
ance, and secondary, possibly fatal, complications, 
the Amanita group are now conceded to be the only 
fungi which contain a positive, active poisonous prin- 
ciple whose certain logical consequence is death. 

Another structural feature of the Amanita is shown 

in the illustration, but has been omitted from the 

above consideration to avoid confusion. 

The "veil" This is the "veil " which, in the young 

or shroud mushroom, originally connected the 

edge of the cap, or pileus, with the 

stem, and whose gradual rupture necessarily follows 

the expansion of the cap, until a mere frill or ring 

is left about the stem at the original point of contact. 

But this feature is a frequent character in many 
edible mushrooms, as witness the several examples in 
the edible species of our plates, and therefore of no 
dangerous significance per se, being merely a mem- 
brane which protects the growing gills. 

Nor are the other features, the remnants of the 
volva on the summit of the cap, to be considered of 
primary importance from the popular point of view, 
for the reason firstly, that these fragments, while con- 



a 



W 
r* 
O 

13 

s 

B 

z 

H 

C 
*3 

> 

> 
SI 



<J 

K 







THE DEADLY AMANITA 51 

spicuous and constant in Amanita muscarius (Plate 
4), are not thus permanent in several other species 
of Amanitse, notably the white-satin-capped Ama- 
nita vernus, Amanita phalloides, and 
Scales and Amanita C&sarca, in which the frag- 
scurfy spots ments are deciduous ; and, secondly, 
because the same general effect of 
these warty scales is so clearly imitated in other 
mushrooms which are distinctly edible, as in exam- 
ples Plate 10 and Plate 16. It is to the volva or 
cup, then, that we must devote our special attention 
as the only safe and constant character. And this 
leads me to the prominent and necessary considera- 
tion of another common species of Amanita, men- 
tioned above, in which even this cup is more or less 
obscure. 

THE POISONOUS FLY- MUSHROOM 

Agaricus (Amanita) muscarius 

This, one of the most strikingly beautiful of our 
toadstools, is figured in Plate 4. Its brilliant cap of 
yellow, orange, or even scarlet, studded with white 
or grayish raised spots, can hardly be 
A deceptive unfamiliar to even the least observant 
Amanita country walker. Its favorite habitat is 
the woods, and, in the writer's experi- 
ence especially, beneath hemlocks and poplars, where 
he has seen this species year after year in whole 
companies, and in all stages shown in the plate at 
the same time, from the globular young specimen 
almost covered with its white warts just lifting its 
head above the brown carpet to the fully expanded 



52 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

individual, in which the spots have assumed a 
shrunken and brownish tint. 

The consideration of this species is of the utmost 
importance, as its beauty is but an alluring mask, 
which has enticed many to their destruction ; among 
the more recent of its conspicuous victims having 
been the Czar Alexis of Russia. For this is another 
cosmopolitan type of mushroom, common alike in 
America, Great Britain, Europe, and Asia, in all of 
which countries it is notorious for its poisonous re- 
sources. It is commonly known as the " Fly-agaric," 
its substance macerated in milk having 

Used as a been employed for centuries as an ef- 

fly = poison factual fly-poison. After the reader's 
introduction to the botanical character 
of the Amanita, he would, presumably, be somewhat 
suspicious of the present species. The suggestive 
white or dingy fragments upon its cap, it is true, 
would alone arouse his suspicions, but in the exami- 
nation of the stem for the telltale volva or cup its 
verification might be somewhat in doubt. It is for 
this reason that the species is emphasized in these 
pages, as the Amanita muscarius, judg- 
its ing from the great dissimilarity of its 

obscure cup numerous portraits from all countries, 
would seem to be remarkably protean, 
especially with reference to its stalk. The majority 
of the portraits of this reprobate presents the volva 
as distinct and as clean cut as in the A. vermts just 
described, and the stalk above as equally smooth, 
features which are usually at variance with the as- 
sociated botanical description of the species, which 



TLATE IV 

FLY MUSHROOM 

Agarieus (Amanita) muscarius 

Pileus: Diameter three to six inches, quite flat at maturity; 

color brilliant yellow, orange, or scarlet, becoming pale 

with age, dotted with adhesive white, at length pale 

brownish warts, the remnants of the volva. 
Gills : Pure white, very symmetrical, various in length, the 

shorter ones terminating under the cap with an almost 

vertical abruptness. 
Spores: Pure white. A spore-print of this species is shown 

in Plate 37. 
Stem : White, yellowish with age, becoming shaggy, at length 

scaly, the scales below appearing to merge into the form 

of an obscure cup. 
Volva: Often obscure, indicated by a mere ragged line of 

loose outward curved shaggy scales around a bulbous 

base. 

Flesh: White. 
Habitat: Woods and their borders, especially favoring pine 

and hemlock. 
Season : Summer and autumn. 



z 

H 



C 

C/i 
n 



Tl 
O 

cn 
o 

2 
O 
C 
01 










-- 







; - r.y? ( , 

r, i\ T \-T> "' 

^^4 V , 



; ^ 



,' 



, 










" - 



m 



5 

n 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 57 

often characterizes the volva as " incomplete " or " ob- 
scure," and the stem as "rough and scaly." If the 
portraits in these works are correct, the Amanita 
qualities of the species are clearly displayed, but if 
their accompanying descriptions are to be credited, 
and such seem to be in perfect accord with the spec- 
imens which I have always found, the A. muscarius 
would seem in need of a more authentic historian. 

The example figured in the plate presents the 
stem and volva as they have always appeared in 
specimens obtained by the writer. In the young 
individuals the stem is waxy-white, becoming later 
a dull, pale ochre hue, the lower half being shaggy 
and torn, and beset with loose projecting woolly 
points which resolve themselves below into scales 
with loose tips curved outward, and so distantly dis- 
posed upon the bulbous base as to leave no marked 
definition of the continuous rim or opening of a cup. 
But the cup is there, and in a section of the bud state 
of the mushroom could have been seen, even as in the 
white warts upon the surface of the younger speci- 
mens we note the evidences of the upper portion of 
the same white volva. In many other 
Volva scales species of Amanita, notably A. vernus, 
permanent as already mentioned, these volva frag- 
ments generally wither and are shed 
from the cap. They are thus not to be counted on 
as a permanent token. But in the fly - mushroom 
they form a distinct character, as they adhere firmly 
to the smooth skin of the pileus, and in drying, instead 
of shrivelling and curling and falling off, simply 
shrink, turn brownish, and in the maturely expanded 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



mushroom appear like scattered drops of mud which 
have dried upon the pileus. Another peculiar struct- 
ural feature of this mushroom is shown in the sec- 
tional drawing herewith given. The shorter gills, 
instead of rounding off as they approach the pileus 




SECTION OF FLY-AMANITA 



(see a), terminate abruptly almost at right angles to 
their edge. The contrast from the usual form will 
be more apparent by comparison with the section of 
the parasol -mushroom on page 114. 

Few species of mushrooms have such an inter- 
esting history as this. Its deadly properties were 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 59 

known to the ancients. From the earliest times its 
deeds of notoriety are on record. 

This is quite possibly the species alluded to by 
Pliny as "very conveniently adapted for poisoning," 
and is not improbably the mushroom 
Historical referred to by this historian in the fol- 
Amanita lowing quotation from his famous Nat- 
ural History : " Mushrooms are a dainty 
food, but deservedly held in disesteem since the no- 
torious crime committed by Agrippina, who through 
their agency poisoned her husband, the Emperor 
Claudius; and at the same moment, in the person 
of her son Nero, inflicted another poisonous curse 
upon the whole world, herself in particular." 

Notwithstanding its fatal character, this mushroom, 
it is said, is habitually eaten by certain peoples, to 
whom the poison simply acts as an intoxicant. In- 
deed, it is customarily thus employed as a narcotic 
and an exhilarant in Kamchatka and Asiatic Russia 
generally, where the Amanita drunkard 
Amanita supplants the opium fiend and alcohol 
dipsomaniacs dipsomaniac of other countries. Its 
narcotizing qualities are commemo- 
rated by Cooke in his Seven Sisters of Sleep, wherein 
may be found a full description of the toxic employ- 
ment of the fungus. 

The writer has heard it claimed that this species 
of Amanita has been eaten with impunity by certain 
individuals ; but the information has usually come 
from sources which warrant the belief that another 
harmless species has been confounded with it. The 
warning of my Frontispiece may safely be extended 



60 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

to the fly-amanita. Its beautiful gossamer veil may 
aptly symbolize a shroud. 

By fixing these simple structural features of the 

Amanita in mind, and emphasizing them by a study 

of our Frontispiece, we may now consider ourselves 

armed against our greatest foe, and 

Forewarned mav w jth some assurance make our 

and J 

forearmed limited selection among this lavish lard- 
er of wild provender continually going 
to waste by the ton in our woods and pastures and 
lawns. For it is now a fact generally believed by 
fungologists, and being gradually demonstrated, that 
the edible species, far from being the exception, as 
formerly regarded, are the rule; that a great majority 
of our common wild fungi are at least harmless, if 
not positively wholesome and nutritious as food. 

THE POISONOUS ALKALOID 

The toxic and deadly effects of certain mushroom 
poisons, as already described, have been known since 
ancient times; and the prolonged intoxicating de- 
bauches to-day prevalent among the Amanita dipso- 
maniacs of Northern Russia and Kamchatka, con- 
sequent upon the allurements of the decoction of the 
fly-agaric, are well-known matters of history. 

The true chemical character of this poison, however, 
was not discovered until 1868, when it was successfully 
isolated by chemical analyses of Drs. Vigier, Schmiede- 
berg, Currie, and Koppe, and ascertained to be an 
alkaloid principle, to which was given originally the 
name of bulbosine, since variously known as musca- 
rine, and finally and most appropriately amanitine. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 6l 

The poison thus identified, it was reserved to an 

American authority on edible fungi, Mr. Julius A. 

Palmer, of Boston, to discover the fact 

Mr. Palmer's of its confinement to but one fungus 

discovery family the Amanita. 

In the year 1879, in an article con- 
tributed by him to the Moniteur Scientifique, of 
Paris, he states : 

" Mushrooms are unfit for food by decay or other 
cause, producing simply a disagreement with the sys- 
tem by containing some bitter, acrid, or slimy element, 
or by the presence of a wonderful and dangerous alka- 
loid which is absorbed in the intestinal canal. This 
alkaloid, so far as known, is found only in the Ama- 
nita family '." 

To Mr. Palmer, then, is due the chemical segrega- 
tion of the Amanita group as the only repository of 
this deadly toxic. 

It has not been discerned in other species of fungi, 

whose so-called " poisonous " effects are more often 

traceable to mere indigestibility, the 

Lesser selection of "over-ripe" specimens, or 

poisoning to idiosyncrasy, rather than to their 

distinctly poisonous properties. 
Many mushrooms of other families which do pos- 
sess ingredients chemically at war with the human 
system as the Russida emetica and certain Lacta- 
rii, for instance at least give a fair warning, either 
by taste or odor, of their dark intentions. 

Owing to the numerous deaths every year conse- 
quent upon mushroom -eating, and nearly always 
directly traceable to the Amanita, the discovery of 



62 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

an antidote to this poison has been the quest of 
many noted chemists several supposed antidotes 

having been experimented with upon 

Antidote dogs and other animals without desired 

for Amanita results. These included atropine, the 

deadly crystalline alkaloid from the 
Atropa belladonna. The earlier experiments upon 
animals with this drug in Paris, as described by Dr. 
Gautier in 1884, while encouraging, were not con- 
sidered conclusive, but were sufficient to warrant 
the suggestion that the treatment upon man might 
be effective. In a resume of the subject in the 
Philadelphia Medical and Surgical Reporter, De- 
cember, 1885, for the benefit of the medical prac- 
titioners who are so frequently called upon to attend 
cases of mushroom poisoning, Captain Charles Mcll- 
vaine recommended the administration of a dose of 
atropine of from 0.05 to 0.0002 milligramme, and it 

was later reserved for the same gentle- 
First authentic man to witness the first authentic in- 
appiication stance of the application of this remedy 

in antagonism with the Amanita poison 
in the human system. The report of this experi- 
ence was afterwards published (see Bibliography, 
No. 6), embodying also a complete and authentic ac- 
count of the symptoms and treatment of the cases 
by the attending physician, Dr. J. E. Shadle, of 
Shenandoah, Pa., which account I feel is appropri- 
ately included here, being in full sympathy with the 
solicitous spirit of my pages. I therefore quote the 
statement of Dr. Shadle for the benefit of those in- 
terested. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 63 

SHENANDOAH, PA., October 26, 1885. 
Mr. CHAS. MC!LVAINE : 

MY DEAR SIR, in compliance with your request, I take pleasure 
in submitting to your consideration the following report of five 
cases of toadstool-poisoning which recently came under my ob- 
servation and treatment : 

On Monday, August 31, at 10 A.M., I was hastily called to see 

a family, consisting of Mr. F., his wife, his mother-in-law, Mrs. R., 

and his brother - in - law, Thomas R., who, the 

Amanita messenger stated, were having "cramps in the 

poisoning bowels." 

symptoms Promptly responding to the call, I found them 

suffering from intense abdominal pains, nausea, 

vomiting, boneache, and feelings of distress in the prcecordial 



region. 



Mr. F., twenty-nine years of age, was a miner by occupation, 
and had led an intemperate life. Mrs. F., twenty-two years of 
age, was a brunette, possessing a delicate body, and bearing a 
decided neurotic tendency. Mrs. R., forty-five years of age, was a 
small nemo-bilious woman. Thomas R., thirteen years of age, was 
a youth well developed. 

While I was examining these patients, Mrs. B., forty years of 
age, a neighbor of the family, presented herself, manifesting in a 
milder degree the same symptoms. She was a tall, spare woman. 
Previous to their present attack of illness their general health was 
good ; in none could signs of disease be traced. 

Picture to your mind five persons suffering from cholera morbus 
in its most aggravated form, and you will be enabled to form a 
pretty correct idea of what I beheld in the Faris residence on 
Monday morning, August 31. 

That five individuals, four being members of one household, 
should be attacked simultaneously by a similar train of symptoms, 
naturally gave rise in my mind to a suspicion that something poi- 
sonous had been eaten. Upon close inquiry I obtained the fol- 
lowing history : 

On the afternoon of Sunday, August 30, Mr. F. and Thomas R. 
were walking through a wood not far distant from their home, 
and, in wandering from place to place, found clusters of very 



64 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

beautiful toadstools growing abundantly under trees, among which 
the chestnut predominated. 

Attracted by their appearance, and supposing them to be edi- 
ble, they gathered a large quantity, with the anticipation of hav- 
ing a delicious dish for their Sunday evening 

Amanita meal - 
poisoning Various other kinds were growing in the same 

symptoms locality, but this particular variety impressed 
them as being the most inviting. A correct 
specimen of the fungus they had collected having been sent 
you, I will leave its botanical description to your pen. 

At about nine o'clock, five hours after gathering them, Mrs. F. 
cooked three pints of the toadstools, stewing them in milk, and 
seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt. 

They had dinner at a very early hour on this day, and by the 
time they had supper all felt exceedingly hungry, in consequence 
of which they ate quite heartily. Mrs. F. and her brother vied 
with each other as to the quantity they could eat. In addition 
to this dish, bread and butter and coffee were served. 

Soon after supper the family retired. None experienced the 
least discomfort until towards daybreak, when considerable dis- 
tress in the abdominal organs and cerebral disturbance manifested 
themselves. Prominent among the initial symptoms were foul 
breath, coated tongue, pain in the stomach, nausea, and a peculiar 
sickening sensation in the epigastrium. These symptoms gradual- 
ly increased in severity, and in twelve hours after the ingestion 
of the poison, when I made my first visit, the condition of the 
victims involved great danger. Intense vomiting was present in 
four, while in Mrs. R.'s case a violent retching seemed to persist. 

Gastro-intestinal irritation, followed by a relaxed condition of 
the bowels, showed itself in about thirty hours after the onset of 
the more active symptoms. With the appearance of this trouble 
an insufferable tenesmus developed, producing paroxysms of 
severe agony. This was particularly true in the case of Mrs. R., 
whose suffering was so great that it became a formidable symptom 
to combat. Upon the subsidence of the more severe symptoms, 
the patients fell into a state of extreme prostration, accompanied 
by stupor and cold extremities. In the mother, son, and daughter 
this was profoundly marked. They were completely indifferent 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 65 

to persons and things around them, as well as to their own suf- 
fering. 

As the symptoms increased in violence, Thos. R. advanced into 

a state of coma, and Mrs. F. into coma vigil, and remained so for 

about twelve hours prior to death. The face 

Amanita na< ^ a shrunken and wrinkled appearance, the 

poisoning eyes were sunken, the skin was dusky, and the 

symptoms surface of the body was dry and cold to the 

touch. The pulse, a number of hours before 

death, was imperceptible at the wrist, and the heart-sounds were 

scarcely perceived by auscultation. 

The pulse in all cases was notably affected, ranging from 120 
to 140 per minute. In character it was soft and compressible; 
intermittent at intervals. 

There was a distinct rise of temperature ; the thermometer in 
the axilla registered as much as 140 F. 

A mild form of delirium was an occasional event. In the case 
of Mrs. F. it formed an important element. 

Respecting the special senses, it is well to mention that sight 
was peculiarly affected. Notwithstanding the fact that the pupils 
responded kindly to the action of the light, an unpleasant sensa- 
tion of blindness frequently appeared, and continued for a few 
minutes. 

In spite of all that was done to counteract its ravages, the ef- 
fects of the poison were so extremely deadly that a fatal issue 
was the result in two cases. Thomas R. died in fifty-six and Mrs. 
F. in sixty-three hours after the ingestion of the toadstools. 

Treatment. The treatment instituted was mainly symptomatic. 
Fearing that undigested particles of toadstools might still be 
lying in the gastro-intestinal tract, to Mrs. R., who had not freely 
vomited, an emetic was administered, and to 
Amanita the rest a mild purge. 

poisoning An intense thirst and a burning sensation 

treatment being present in the mouth, throat, and stomach, 
small pieces of cracked ice were freely used with 
a view to allaying it. 

For the gastro-intestinal irritation I prescribed with satisfactory 
results the following : 



66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

$ Bismuth subnit. , ;v ; 
Creosote, gtt. xv ; 
Mucil. acaciae, fi ; 
Aq. menth. pip., q.s. ad ffiii. M. 
Sig. Teaspoonful every one or two hours. 

'/ 8 grain of morph. sulph. was administered hypodermically to 
alleviate as much as possible the abdominal suffering. 

The impending exhaustion and the failing heart's action I en- 
deavored to combat with a free administration of alcoholic stimu- 
lants in combination with moderate doses of tincture of digitalis 
both by the mouth and under the skin. 

In order to invite the circulation of the blood to the ice-cold 
surface of the body, heated bricks and bottles filled with hot water 
were placed in bed around the patients. 

Analyzing each symptom as it arose, and carefully observing 
the effects of the poison on the system, I formed the opinion thai 
the toxic element contained in the noxious fun- 
gus eaten by these people was narcotic in its 
Diagnosis nature and spent its force on the nerve centres, 
especially selecting the one governing the func- 
tion of respiration and the action of the heart. 

Acting upon this conclusion, I began, in the early part of my 
treatment, subcutaneous injections of sulphate of atropine in fre- 
quently-repeated doses, ranging from y^ to -^ grain. The in- 
jections invariably were followed by a perceptible improvement in 
the patient ; the heart's action became stronger, the pulse returned 
at the wrist, and the respiration increased in depth and fulness. 

Through the agency of this remedy, supported by the other 
measures adopted, three (or sixty per cent.) of the patients re- 
covered. 

The lessons I draw from this experience are : 

1. The poisoning produced by this variety of toadstool is slow 
in manifesting its effects. 

2. That it destroys life by a process of asthenia. 

3. That in atropine we have an antidote, and it should be pushed 
heroically from the earliest inception of the action of the poison. 

I have the honor to remain 

Yours very respectfully, 

J. E. SHADLE, M.D. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 

In reply to the queries, Was atropine administered 
in all the cases ? and What was the total amount 
administered to each ? Dr. Shadle responded as fol- 
lows : 

SHENANDOAH, PA., October 29, 1885. 

MY DEAR MR. MclLVAINE : 

Yours of the 2yth I have received. The two questions you ask 
me therein I see are very important, and they should be answered 
as fully as possible. I am sorry I overlooked the matter in my 
report. 

Before attempting an answer, it is well for me to note right 

here that Mrs. B., the neighbor, did not eat very much of the 

toadstool stew ; Mrs. R. and Mr. F. each ate 

about the same quantity from one and one- 
Amamtine ... ' . . . ,. 

half to two platefuls. This is according to 

and atropine 

Fans s statement. But the two fatal cases- 
Thomas R. and Mrs. F. tried to see which 
could eat the most, and consequently got their full share of the 
poison. The cat mentioned before had about a tablespoonful of 
the broth, and they tell me she was very sick. Whether or not 
she died is not known. 

Now as to the treatment by atropine, I think I can approximate 
a pretty correct statement in reply to your queries. Not knowing 
that atropine was considered an antidote, I began its employment 
in the treatment of these cases from the physiological knowledge 
I had of the drug relative to its action in other diseases in which 
there was heart-failure and embarrassed respiration. 

When I saw the U. S. Dispensatory suggested it, I of course felt 
it my duty to use it, as I could find nowhere anything else men- 
tioned as an antidote. I feel convinced that it was by means of 
the atropine that I saved three of the five patients. Why do I 
think so ? Because whenever I would administer the remedy the 
patient rallied, the pulse returned at the wrist, the heart-sounds 
became stronger, and the respiration increased in strength and 
fulness. What more conclusive evidence do I want than this to 
show as to how the agent was acting ? 

When I first saw the patients twelve hours after the ingestion 



68 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of the poison their symptoms were alike, one suffering as much 

as the other (August 31). I began the use of the alkaloid in 

the evening of the same day, when I saw the 

Administration powers of life giving way, the heart failing, and 

of antidote the respiration becoming shallow. It was used 

in all the cases as follows : 

Mrs. B., -^ TjL, gV> or T | 7 , or ^ gr. 

Mr. F., y^, irV 01 irV> or Tihr g r - 

Mrs. R., y^, ifa **ir aV. or T!O g r - 

Thos. R., yi 7 , -gV> ifo *V, inn or Tb or To g r - 

Mrs. F., T , -gV. > TR>> inr> or dhr or inr g r - 

In accordance with the above formula; the drug was admin- 
istered. I visited the patients at intervals of six or eight hours, 
and at each visitation they received an injection in the doses 
above mentioned. From this we see that in all Mrs. B. received 
gr. gig- of atropine ; Mr. F. received gr. y-JL of atropine ; Mrs. R. 
received gr. y-^ of atropine ; Thos R. (fatal) received gr. ^ of 
atropine ; Mrs. F. (fatal) received gr. -^ of atropine. 

The alkaloid failing to save the two that died I think can be 
attributed to one of two causes, or probably both : 

1. That the use of atropine was begun too late and not used 
heroically enough. 

2. That so much of the poison was taken up by the system in 
these cases that it became too virulent to counteract. 

From the history of the cases I know they ate by far the largest 
quantity. My opinion leans towards the first probable cause I 
have mentioned. 

Another fact worth stating here is that the pupils never became 
affected by the administration of these doses. 

Hoping this will make the matter satisfactory, I remain 

Yours truly, J. E. SHADLE. 

The interval between the ingestion and the symp- 
toms is, therefore, a most important aid in the diag- 
nosis of a case of mushroom poisoning; and in the 
event of an Amanita, heretofore absolutely fatal, it is 
presumably under the control of medical science, now 



TIIK DKADLV A.MAMTA 69 

that the deadly toxic principle has at last found its 
enemy in the neutralizing properties of the equally 
deadly atropine. 

It would seem, moreover, from the severe personal 
experience of Mr. Julius A. Palmer, that the poison 
of the Amanita is quite capable of mischief without 
bein^ taken into the digestive organs. So volatile is 

o o o 

this dangerous alkaloid that it may produce violent 
effects upon the system either through its odor alone, 
or by simple contact with the skin and consequent 
absorption. 

Mr. Palmer, in his before-mentioned article in the 
Moniteur Scientifiquc, Paris, relates the following ex- 
periences : 

" Once while perspiring from a long walk I under- 
took to bring in a large bunch of the Amanita for 
an artist. Seated in a close car, hold- 
Poisons them in my warm hand, although 

by contact 

and odor protected by a paper wrapper, a fearful 
nausea overcame me. The toadstool 
was not at first suspected, yet I had all the symptoms 
of a sea-sick person, and was only relieved by a 
wide distance between myself and the exciting cause. 
" While writing this article," he continues, " a friend 
sent me two very elegant specimens of the Amanita 
tribe. They were in a confined box. On opening 
it I smelled of them a few times, and allowed the 
box to lie near my desk while I wrote to a medical 
gentleman anxious to procure such for chemical ex- 
periment. Having sent them away the matter was 
dismissed from my mind for three hours after, when, 
by an attack of vomiting and oppression at the stom- 



7O EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ach, they were enforced upon my attention. The 
whites of my eyes became livid, and even until noon 
the day following the leaden color of my face was 
noticed by more than one person. 1 ' 

The moral of this story is that the less the reader 

has to do with Amanita fungi the better. Let them 

have a wide berth, or at most an an- 

A wide berth nihilating kick, lest by their alluring 

to Amanita beauty they tempt the next unwary 
traveller who shall encounter them. 

But you desire a specimen " to show a friend," or 
" to make a photograph of, or a sketch," perhaps. 
In such case it were well to consider further the ex- 
periences of Mr. Palmer, which will show the wisdom 
of keeping your gustatorial and artistic mycology 
in separate expeditions, or at least of providing your 
poison-exhaling Amanita specimen with a cage by it- 
self. In the same article he continues : 

" Mushrooms make the same use of the atmosphere 
as men, even their exhalations are accordingly viti- 
ated with their properties. Those not 

Mushrooms Deadly thus attack humanity namely, 

inoculated . . . 

by contact by absorption of their essential elements 
by the whole system. They also in- 
oculate each oilier with or without contact, so that if 
edible and noxious toadstools are gathered together the 
former will absorb the properties of the latter!' 

In proof of this assertion he instances a personal 
experience as follows: " About four years ago a num- 
ber of poisonous mushrooms (not Amanitas, but of a 
totally different family) were sent me with edible fun- 
gus. The two varieties had lain twelve hours in the 



THE DEADLY AM ANITA /I 

same box. The noxious ones were rejected, and the 
esculent washed and eaten. In a moment my appe- 
tite was gone ; violent perspiration, vertigo, and trem- 
bling were the next symptoms ; then chills, nausea, 
purging, and tenesmus, all within thirty minutes. Now 
the substance could not have reached the intestines. 
The virus absorbed from the noxious fungus perme- 
ated the whole system through eating the harmless 
ones ; unmixed with other food it acted upon the 
muscles through an empty stomach ; once spent, the 
ailment passed off," etc. 

From these and other experiences he draws the 

following conclusions : The poisonous principle of a 

fungus being absorbed by a harmless 

Poison element, if the latter be eaten the ven- 

extracted . 

by vinegar om acts more quickly. In reinforce- 
ment of this he states that " if the 
Amanita be cut in sections and laid in vinegar the 
fungus may be eaten without danger to life ; but on 
a very small dose of the vinegar, death will follow 
more speedily than if the whole toadstool be eaten." 
Further interesting matter upon this topic is con- 
tained in the article from which I quote, and to 
which the reader is referred in his volume included 
in my bibliographical list. The work also contains 
numerous other collected articles of Mr. Palmer's 
upon this subject of fungi, to which he has devoted 
so much attention, and with which his name has be- 
come so popularly identified in America. 

The allusion to vinegar as an absorbent of the poi- 
son suggests the prevalent habitual use of salt as a 
safeguard by many in the employment of the fungus 



72 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as food, as both of these ingredients play a prominent 
part in a fungus cuisine. It is averred by some writ- 
ers that one of the most noxious of 
Effect of salt Amanitae- - the Fly-agaric --is eaten in 
and heat some countries, notably Russia, without 
unpleasant results, while it is confident- 
ly asserted to be harmless after, as it were, having 
its venom drawn by a soaking in brine previous to 
cooking. Boiling both in the possible neutralizing 
of the poison through heat, and in the withdrawal of 
the same in the solution would also be contributive 
to safety in such cases, provided the tainted liquid 
were not retained as in a stew or soup. 

On this topic it is interesting to note the epicure- 
an perversity of a certain French author, who, in the 
face of the already overwhelming abun- 
Epicurean dance of nature's esculent species of 
perversity fungi, must needs include all the deadly 
Amanitae as well, though he afives a rec- 

O O 

ipe by which the poison is extracted by the copious 
aid of salt, vinegar, boiling water, and drawing. This 
process, on general principles, might invite humorous 
speculation as to the appetizing qualities of the resid- 
ual morsel thus acquired, or as to the advisability of 
deliberately selecting a poisonous substance for the 
desideratum of the washed-out, corned, spiced, non- 
descript remnant which survives the process of ex- 
traction, not only of its noxious properties, but of 
even what nutriment it might possibly contain. 

Fancy a beefsteak similarly " prepared," all its nour- 
ishing ingredients extracted and thrown away ; its ex- 
hausted remnant of muscular fibre now the mere ab- 



T1JK DEADLY AM ANITA 73 

sorbent vehicle for vinegar, salt, lemon-juice, butter, 
nutmeg, garlic, spice, cloves, and other seeming indis- 

pensables to the preparation of the 
Mushrooms Champignon a la mode f 
a la mode The verdict of the extreme fungus 

epicure upon the delectable flavor of 
this or that mushroom must indeed be taken cum 
grano salts, the customary culinary treatment, or 
maltreatment, of these delicately flavored fruits hav- 
ing for its apparent object the elimination as far 
as possible of any suggestion of the true flavor of 
the fungus. I fancy that even the caustic, rebellious 
root of the Indian-turnip or the skunk-cabbage thus 
tamed and subdued in a smothering emollient of 
spiced gravy or ragout might negatively serve a pur- 
pose as more or less indigestible pabulum. 

While, as already mentioned, a few of this genus 
Amanita are edible, it is well in concluding our 

chapter to emphasize the caution of 
Enough with= an earlier page as to the absolute ex- 
out Amanita elusion of the entire genus from the 

bill of fare of the amateur mycophagist. 
There is an abundance of wholesome, delicious fungi 
at our doors without them. 

Many species of Amanita are to be found more or 
less frequently in company with the esculent varieties 
recommended in the chapters following. Among 
these the two extremes of variation from the typical 
form are seen in the A. muscarius in its permanent 
retention of the volva scales and the obscurity of its 
cup, and in the A.phalloides, herewith pictured about 
half natural size, with the frequent entire absence of 



74 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



these remnant scales, which wither and fall off, leav- 
ing the yellowish or greenish cap perfectly smooth. 

It is to the volva or cup, then, that we must turn 
for the one fixed permanent character by which this 
genus is to be identified. 




J5 

fi 



AMANITA PHALLOIDES 





,, -> 





i3^S?S5? : ~ 

UR introductory description of the Ama- 
nita presents the most perfect botan- 
ical type of a large division of the 
fungus tribe, the Agaricacea^ or gill- 
bearing mushrooms, one of the two 
great orders of fungi which include the large major- 
ity of edible species. 

A brief consideration of the general classification 
of fungi will not be out of place at the head of this 
chapter. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FUNGI 

A fungus is a cellular cryptogamous (flowerless) 
plant, nourished through its spawn or mycelium in 
place of roots, living in air, and propagated by spores. 

Fungi mycetes are naturally subdivided into two 
great divisions : 

1. SPORIFERA those in which the spores or repro- 
ductive bodies are naked or soon exposed, as shown 
in illustration on page 79. 

2. SpORiDiiFERA--in which the spores are envel- 
oped in sacs or asci. These resemble in shape the 
cystidium of illustration on page 79. 



78 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The first of these divisions the SPORIFERA, or 
naked -spored fungi is again subdivided into four 
families, as follows : 

1. Hymenomycetes. Hymenium, or spore- bearing 
surface, exposed and conspicuous, as seen in the 
common mushroom and all Agarics and Polyporei. 

2. Gasteromycetes (gaster, a belly). Hymenium, or 
spore- bearing surface, enclosed in a more or less 
spherical case, called the peridium, which ruptures 
and expels the spores at maturity in the form of dust, 
as in the puff-balls. 

}. Coniomycetes* from the Greek K-oW?, meaning 

*J *s ^j 

dust, the entire fungus having a dust-like appearance. 
Mildew forms a good example of this family. 

4. Hyphomycetes, from the Greek u<a, meaning a 
thread. Thread-like fungi, the filaments being more 
conspicuous than the spore masses, of which group 
blue-mould affords an illustration. 

The Hymenomycetes (i) is again subdivided into 




six orders, the discrimination being based on the 
diverse character of the spore surface. The first of 
these orders is the Agaricini, or gill -bearing fungi, 
to which our present chapter will be confined. 



AGARICS 



79 



I---!- Sterile cell 



--Sporophore 



AGARICINI 

In this order the hymenium, or spore -bearing sur- 
face, is inferior, i.e., on the under side of the pileus, 
and is spread over lamellce or gills, which radiate 
from the stem of the fungus, and each of which may 
be separated into two filmy flat divisions. 

On the opposite page is shown an Agaric in ver- 
tical section, disclosing a full side view of the gills. 
A highly magni- 
fied view Of this -Cystidium 

I X 

gill -surface is in- s P? res 

dicated herewith, 
duly indexed, the 
sporophore being 
shown in the act of 
shedding its spores 
from their points 
of attachment to 
the four stigmata 
at the summit. These fruitful four -pointed sporo- 
phores or basidia are intermingled with the cystidia 
and sterile cells, the whole mass forming the surface 
of the hymenium. The dissemination of the Agaric 
is further considered in a later chapter on " Spore- 
prints." 

The most perfect botanical type of the Agarics 
is the Amanita, already sufficiently dwelt upon. 

We will now proceed to the consideration of other 
examples in which the symbol of the fatal cup is 
happily absent, and whose identities as esculent spe- 
cies are clearly denoted by individual characteristics. 




SPORE-SURFACE MAGNIFIED 



EDIBLE AGARICS 



MEADOW MUSHROOM 
Agaricus campestris 

Perhaps the one species which enjoys the widest 
range of popular confidence as the " mushroom " in 
the lay mind, as distinguished from " toadstool," is the 
Agaricus campestris, known as the " meadow mush- 
room "'(Pl^e 5). It is the species commonly exposed 
in our markets. Its cultivation is an 
"The" important industry, but it often yields 

mushroom an enormous spontaneous harvest in 
its native haunts. The plate shows 
a cluster of the mushrooms in their various stages 
of development, the detached specimen below rep- 
resenting the semi -opened condition in which the 
fungus is usually gathered for market. It will be ob- 
served that the base of the stem is entirely free from 
any suggestion of a volva or cup. As its popular 
name implies, this species in its wild state is one of 
the voluntary tributes of our late summer and autumn 
meadows and pastures, though it may occasionally 
frequent lawns, shrubberies, and barn-yards. In size 
it varies from two to three and a half 

Description mc h es across the pileus or cap, which is 

Campestris either smooth or slightly rough, scaly, 
or scurfy, and creamy white or tawny in 
color, according to age or variety. The most im- 
portant distinguishing feature of this species is the 
color of the gills. If we break away the " veil " in the 




campeAteiA 



TLATE V 

"THE MUSHROOM" 

Agarieus campestris 

Pileus : At first globular, its edge connected to stem by the 
veil ; then round convex, at length becoming possibly 
almost flat. Surface dry, downy, or even quite scaly, 
varying in color from creamy white to light brown. 
Diameter at full expansion, about three inches. 

Gills: Unequal in length; pink when first revealed, becoming 
brownish, brown, purplish, and finally almost black. 

Stem: Solid; of the color of the cap; paler and white in 
section, retaining the remnant of the veil in a permanent 
ragged ring. 

Spores: Brown. 

Taste : Sweet and inviting, and odor agreeable. 

Habitat: Pastures, lawns, and open rich soil generally. 

Season : Late summer and early autumn, occasionally in 
spring. 



PLATE V 








' '_ 

.' .,:.'.;. .1 >.i'i : 




I 




AGARICUS CAMPESTRIS. 



ACARICS 85 

unopened specimen, we find them to be of a pallid 
flesh tint. In the more advanced state they become 
decidedly pinkish, with age and expansion gradually 
deepening to purplish, purple-brown, and finally brown- 
ish black. The gills are of unequal lengths, as shown 
in the section. The stem is creamy white and of solid 
substance, and always shows the remains of the veil 
in a persistent frill or ring just beneath the cap. 

Doubtless a sufficient and satisfactory reason for 

the universal dignity which this species has acquired 

as " the mushroom " may be found in 

Cultivation the fact that it is the only species 
of mushrooms prominently under cultivation, and al- 
most the only one which is sure to 
respond to the artificial cultivation of its spawn in 
the so-called "mushroom bed." The "spawn" of 
the Campestris has thus become a mercantile com- 
modity, duly advertised in the seedsmen's catalogues. 

This so-called spawn is in truth nothing but the 

mycelium, or subterranean vine of the mushroom (see 

Plate 2), taken from the beds in which 

Mushroom the mushrooms have been grown, or 
"spawn "bed ' m which the mycelium has been culti- 
vated. The cultivator simply prepares 
a " bed " to receive it duplicating as far as possible 
the soil conditions from which it was taken, whether 
from foreign cultivation or his old manure-bed or 
stable-yard a rich, warm compost of loam and horse- 
manure, this latter ingredient being a most important 
consideration, as the fungus in its several varieties, 
notably the larger, Agaricus arvensis, known as the 
"horse-mushroom," has followed the track of the horse 



86 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

around the world. These natural conditions having 

O 

been even approximately fulfilled, will, within two 
months, generally reward the cultivator with a crop of 
mushrooms, which, with the continued ramifications of 
the mycelium permeating the muck as the yeast fun- 
gus permeates the home-made loaf, will insure a con- 
tinual succession of crops for weeks or months, to be 
renewed spontaneously, perhaps, the following season. 

The present volume, having specific reference to 
fungi in their wild state, and the celebration of their 
esculent virtues, being thus essentially in antithesis 
to artificial culture, further consideration of the cul- 
tivation of the mushroom is omitted. The reader is 
referred to the volumes in my bibliographical list, 
Nos. 8 and 22, in which full instructions will be found. 

The Campestris is conspicuous among mushrooms 

in its ready accommodation to artificial imitation of 

its native environment. There is no 

species other mushroom which is thus confi- 
opposed to 1-1/^1 

cultivation dently to be relied on. Other species 

not a dozen, however, out of the thou- 
sands --will occasionally reward the cultivator, who 
has devoted the most scrupulous care to the humor- 
ing of their fastidious conditions of growth. Thus 
the Agaricus candicans of the Italian markets is said 
to have been successfully raised from chips of the 
white poplar which have been properly covered with 
manure. Other species, it is claimed, 
Certain can be humored from a block of the 
exceptions cob-nut tree after sin^ein^ its surface 

o o 

over burned straw, while Dr. Thore 
claims that both Boletus cdulis, and Agaricus pro- 



AGARICS 87 

cerus are " constantly raised by the inhabitants of his 
district from a watery infusion of said plants poured 
upon the ground." The truth of these statements 
has been denied by authorities, and individual exper- 
iment will only tend to discredit their trustworthiness. 
In general the mushroom or toadstool absolutely re- 
fuses to be " coaxed or cajoled." The mycelium of all 
is practically identical; but species such as the Co- 
prinus, for instance, which are perhaps found growing 
naturally in company with the Campestris, and whose 
spawn is similarly transplanted to the artificial en- 
vironment, will show no sign of reappearance, while 
its fellow may literally crowd the bed. 

The " fairy-ring " mushroom grows year after year 
upon our lawn, because its mycelium is continually 
present, simply threading its way outwardly, inch by 
inch, in the congenial surrounding soil. Instances 
are reported of the occasional successful establishment 
of this mushroom in new quarters by the transfer of a 
clod of earth threaded with mycelium taken from the 
"fairy-ring" to another lawn, in which the immediate 
soil conditions happened to be harmonious, and this 
method of actual transference of the spawn might oc- 
casionally be effectual. But the writer, in his limited 
number of experiments, has never yet been able to 

propagate a mushroom by a transfer of 
Not to be the spores to soil where the conditions 
humored would appear to be exactly suitable. 

On a certain lawn, for instance, every 
year I obtain a number of the Coprinus comatus (Plate 
1 6). Upon another lawn, apparently exactly similar 
as to soil conditions, I transfer the melting mushroom 



88 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

where it sheds its inky spore-solution upon the earth, 
and yet, after years of waiting, there is no response. 
Even an absolute transfer of the webby spawn from 
the original haunt has proven equally without result. 
Thus while the habitual fungus-hunter comes to rec- 



ognize a certain logical association between a 

o o 

character of natural haunt and some certain species 
of fungi a prophetic suspicion often immediately 
fulfilled as when he inwardly remarks, as he comes 
upon an open, clear spot in the woods, " This is an ideal 
haunt for the green Russula," and instantly stumbles 
upon his specimen; yet he may take the pallid spawn, 
with a small clod of earth from its roots, and place it 
in the mould not ten feet distant, apparently in iden- 
tically auspicious conditions, and it absolutely refuses 
to be humored. He may mark the spot, and look 
in vain in its precincts for a decade for his Russula, 
though the ground in the vicinity be dotted with them. 

Year after year I have thrown my refuse specimens 

of hundreds of species of fungi out of my studio win- 

dow, over the piazza rail or upon my 

Dormant lawn, yet never with the slightest sign 

spores that one of the millions of spores in the 

species thus sown has vegetated. 

Considering the ready accommodation of the Cam- 
pestris, the contrast of the fastidiousness in other spe- 
cies is a notable phenomenon. As a rule, " they will 
not colonize ; they will not emigrate ; they will not 
be cheated out of their natural possessions : they re- 
fuse to be educated, and stand themselves upon their 
single leg, as the most independent and contrary 
growth with which man has to deal." 



' 



I 



o 

C/3 

2 

O 



o 
c 

c 

O 



- mg8m&&& 

;< '-V- ,*-.; - .ijflp&i^ - .;,- 



: ,^ 



^ 




AGARICS 91 

The Campestris is probably the most protean of all 

mushrooms, and mycologists are even yet at odds as 

to the proper botanical disposition of 

Varieties many of the contrasting varieties which 
of the ... 

Campestris it assumes. A tew ot these are indicat- 
ed in Plate 6. Indeed, some of these, 
as in the Agaricus arvensis, following, have until quite 
recently figured as distinct species. In its extreme 
form it might well so do, but when science is con- 
fronted with an intermediate specimen bearing equal 
affinities to the Campestris and Arvensis--and per- 
haps reinforced by other individuals which actually 
merge completely into the Campestris the discrimi- 
nation of the Arvensis as a distinct species becomes 
impossible, and would hardly seem warrantable. 

Berkeley gives the following selection of the more 
distinct varieties, not including the Arvensis with its 
variations, and which he considers a distinct species: 

1. The so-called "garden mushroom," with its brownish, hairy, 
scaly cap. 

2. A. pratensis, in which the pileus is more or less covered with 
reddish scales, and the flesh as well as gills a pinkish tinge. 

3. A. villaticus, large size and very scaly. 

4. A. silvicola, pileus smooth and shining, stem elongated and 
conspicuously swollen at base; often found in woods. 

5. A. vaporarius, brown pilose coat which covers the stem as 
well as the cap, and leaves streaky fragments on the stalk as it 
elongates. 

6. He also figures another marked form, with the cap of a red- 
dish color, completely covered with a pilose coat ; the gills being 
perfectly white in young specimens, and the flesh turning bright 
red when bruised. 

Any one of the above, he admits, are as much entitled to classi- 
fication as " distinct species " as the Arvensis. 



92 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The application of the title " horse -mushroom " to 
this last-mentioned species was generally supposed to 
be referable to the same popular tra- 
The "horse" ditions of which we see the analogies 
mushroom J n the names horse -weed, horse -nettle, 
horse -balm, horseradish among the 
herbs the prefix " horse " referring to the element of 
coarseness or rank growth. But in the instance of 
the mushroom it bears a deeper significance, as this 
ample cosmopolitan variety of the Campestris, which 
follows the horse all over the world, from stable and 
through lane to pasture, and which can only be 
grown in the manure of this animal, is now generally 
believed to be a secondary, exaggerated form conse- 
quent upon the following conditions : 

The spores of the Campestris are shed in myriads 
in the pastures. The grazing horse no doubt swal- 
lows thousands of them, which, upon their return to 
the soil under especially favorable conditions for 
growth, vegetate into mycelium, and at length fructi- 
fy in the full -formed mushroom. The dense white 
spawn of this species may often be seen beneath the 
manure in pastures where no sign of the mushroom 
itself is yet apparent. 

During the writing of the present pages I have 
received from Arizona a letter accompanied with a 
sketch of a most astonishing mushroom, 
A huge which my correspondent finds plenti- 
variety fully prevalent in his vicinity, growing 
in arid sand, even in an exceptionally 
dry season. He claims that " it is deliciously ed- 
ible," and he has partaken of it several times. His 



AGARICS 93 

sketch and description call to mind no existing form 
of mushroom known to me, though from one peculi- 
arity in particular namely, its frequently enormous 
size, "occasionally ten inches in diameter" one 
would naturally expect to find it at least notorious, 
if not famous. 

It is plainly an Agaric related to the Campestris, 
and from the fact of its having " pink gills darker in 
older specimens " I suspect it to be simply another 
local masquerade of this same Campestris, which sus- 
picion, by the receipt of further data, I hope soon to 
verify. 

HORSE-MUSHROOM 



Agaricus arvensis 



This other and larger variety, so readily confound- 
ed with the Campestris, demands further and more 
detailed description. It may frequently be found 
growing in company with the former, and so closely 
do the two kinds merge in specimens of equal size 
that it is often a puzzle to separate the species. In- 
deed, as already mentioned by some mycologists, the 
larger form is considered merely as a variety of the 
Campestris. The accompanying plate (5) may well 
serve as a portrait of this species also. It frequents 
the same localities as the former, and is occasional- 
ly seen crowded in clusters of crescent 
Description shape, or in scattered rings, while its 
of Arvensis s i ze is generally conspicuous, the solid 
cream -colored or white cap often ex- 
panding to the diameter of seven inches. Its sub- 
stance discolors to yellowish brown on being bruised. 



94 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The stem is less solid than in Campestris, often with 
a pithlike or even hollow heart. The gills are of 
unequal length, as in the former species, though of 
much the same tints of pink and brown and black, 
though more dingy in the lighter shades. The veil 
is often more conspicuous, and occasionally appears 
to be double, the outer or lower more or less rao^ed 

OO 

or split into a fringe at the edge. The species can 
hardly be mistaken for any poisonous variety, and, 
once recognized, its generous size, frequent profusion, 
and savory qualities make it a tempting quest to the 
epicure, being considered by many as superior in fla- 
vor to its rival, the smaller Campestris. 

But this question of gastronomic prestige will per- 
haps never be finally settled. De giistibus non cst 
disputandum. Species considered here 

In matters by many as the ne plus ultra of delica- 
of taste cies, like the Campestris, are discrimi- 
nated against in other countries, and in 
Rome, it is said, are even thrown into the Tiber by 
inspectors and guardians of the public health who 
find it exposed for sale in the markets. There are 
those connoisseurs in delicate feasting who consider 
no other species comparable to this. These fastidi- 
ous gourmands are in turn viewed with pitying con- 
sideration by other superior epicurean feeders with 
finer sensuous discrimination, who know perfectly 
well that our woods afford a number of common 
species which easily consign the Campestris to the 
fourth or fifth choice as a competitor at the feast. 

The arts of the chef have been exhausted in the 
savory preparation of this, the most famous of the 



AGARICS 95 

mushrooms. A few of his ingenious methods are 
given in a later chapter. Meanwhile most of us will 
be perfectly contented with our simple " mushrooms 
on toast." 

While the Campestris is generally considered as 
" the " mushroom, there is another species which al- 
most equally shares the honors in popular favor. 

I have alluded to the habit of the horse-mushroom 
as "growing in crescents or rings." This singular 
tendency is, however, much more fully exemplified 
in another fungus, which has thus won the popular 
patronymic of the "Fairy -ring" Champignon, and 
which is considered on page 101. 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 
Agaricus gambosus 

Another very common example of mushroom in 
its season of early spring is the Agaricus gambosus, 
or St. George's mushroom, as it is popularly styled 
in Great Britain, from its usual appearance about the 
time of St. George's Day, April 23d. In addition to 
its unusually early season, which is the same with 
us, and which at this date would be a valuable hint 
in its identification, it has also the singular habit of 
growing in rings or clustered in crescents, after the 
manner of the Fairy -ring Champignon of our lawns. 
Add to this, also, a very strong odor, 
Remarkably and we have at least three suggestive 
strong odor characteristics to aid us. This odor, 
according to Dr. Cooke, is so strong 
as to occasionally become oppressive and overpower- 
ing where the fungus is plentiful. Workmen em- 



9 6 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ployed to root them out are said to have been so 
overcome by the odor as to be compelled to desist. 
Other features of this fungus are noted in Plate 7. 
The cap varies in size in different individuals, but is 
occasionally very large five inches or more in diam- 
eter, the average expanse, perhaps, being about three 
inches. The cap is smooth, thick, and fleshy, sug- 
gesting soft kid leather, at first rounded convex, ulti- 
mately expanding quite 
horizontally, and is com- 
monly fissured here and 
there with irregular cracks, 
both in its expanse and 
at its edges. Its color is 
white, or yellowish white. 
In surface appearance Dr. 
Berkeley compared it to a 
" cracknel biscuit." The 
gills are yellowish white, 
very moist and densely 
crowded, and of various lengths, as indicated in my 
sectional drawing on the plate, and are, moreover, 
annexed to the solid stout stem by a toothed border, 
also shown herewith. 

The season of this mushroom extends into June, 
and in its favorite haunt it may occasionally be gath- 
ered by the bushel. Opinions are at 
Epicurean variance as to the comparative esculent 
opinions qualities of this species. Certainly deli- 
cacy cannot be claimed for it ; but 
those epicures who desire the characteristic fimgus 
flavor at its maximum will find it in the Gambosus. 




TOOTHED GILLS 



TLATE Yll 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 

Agaricus gambosus 

Pileus : Three to six inches in diameter, occasionally much 
larger; rounded convex, at length more flat and common- 
ly cracked here and there; surface smooth, thick, and 
fleshy, suggesting soft kid leather. Color, pale ochre 
or yellowish white. 

Gills: Densely crowded; yellowish white; very moist; va- 
rious lengths; each annexed to stem by a small sharp 
downward curve. 

Stem: Solid; stout; substance creamy white. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Highly flavored; by some considered "too gamy." 

Odor : Powerfully strong, perhaps rank. 

Habitat: Fields, lawns, and pastures, frequently growing in 
broken rings or crescents. 



PLATE VII 




1, 






m 




AGARICUS GAMBOSUS. 



AGARICS IOI 

By many fungus -feasters this species is prized as 
the ne plus ultra, and most various are the methods 
of its culinary preparation, either in the form of mince 
and fricassee with various meats, suitably seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and butter, or simply broiled and 
served on buttered toast. An appetizing recipe for 
this especial mushroom is given on page 313. 

TRUE FAIRY-RING CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius arcades 

I remember, as a boy, summer after summer ob- 
serving upon a certain spot upon our lawn this dense, 
and at length scattering, ring of tiny 
Fairy=nng yellowish mushrooms, and the aroma, 

mushrooms J . . 11-1 

true and false as they simmered on the kitchen stove, 
is an appetizing memory. This species 
is very common, and inasmuch as it is likely to be 
confounded with two noxious varieties, it is advisable 
to bring in prominent contrast the characters of the 
true and the false. 

The true Fairy -ring Champignon is pictured in 
Plate 8. It is common on lawns and close-cropped 
pastures, where it is usually seen growing in rings 
more or less broken, and often several feet in diam- 
eter, or in disconnected arcs, the vegetation extend- 
ing outward year by year. This mushroom is held 
in great esteem, and frequently grows in such pro- 
fusion that bushels may be gathered in a small area. 

The pileus is buff or cream colored, from one to 
two inches in diameter, leathery and shrivelled when 
dry, but when moist, after rain or dew, becoming 
brownish, soft, and pliable, the conditions perhaps 



102 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

alternating for several days ; the skin refuses to be 
peeled, and in the older, fully opened specimens the 
centre of the cap is raised in a distinct 
"True" tiny mound; gills, widely separated, 
fairy=ring about ten or twelve to the inch at cir- 
cumference in average specimens, same 
color as cap, or paler, unequal in length, curving 
upward on reaching stem, thus "free " from apparent 
contact with it ; stem, equal diameter, tough, fibrous, 
and tenacious, paler than gills, smooth to the base 
(no spines nor down] ; cup, none ; spores, white ; taste 
nutty, somewhat aromatic, appetizing ; habitat usually 
on lawns or pastures. 

The "ring" was long involved in mystery, being at- 
tributed to moles, lightning, witchcraft, etc. ; and, 
clothed with popular superstition, has 

Traditions found its way into many folk-legends, 

of the J J & 

mystic "ring" and has figured in the lore of elfs and 

goblins, to whom, in the absence of 
scientific knowledge, the strange, fungus-haunted cir- 
cle was referred, the " ring " being applied not merely 
to the circle of mushrooms themselves, but especially 
to the clearly defined ring of clear, fresh grass sur- 
rounding the central, more faded area. But the fair- 
ies no longer dance their moonlight rigadoon upon 
the charmed circle of the champignon, nor do the 
nimble elves " rear their midnight mushrooms " upon 
the rings of lush grass as of old, for science has 
stepped in and cleared up the mystery. The Rev. 
M. J. Berkeley, in his Outlines to British Fungology, 
thus completely rescues the "fairy-ring" from the do- 
main of poetry and reduces it to prosaic fact : 



ozea 



deA 



TLATE Ylll 

FAIRY RING CHAMPIGNON 

Marasmius oreades 

Pileus : Convex at first, becoming flat, with a mound at cen- 
tre, at juncture of stem; texture, tough and pliable when 
moist, brittle in drying, alternating between these two 
conditions with rain and sun ; color, reddish buff at first, 
becoming cream colored when old, when it is usually 
quite wrinkled. 

Gills: Broad, and quite separated; about ten or twelve to the 
inch at rim in large specimens; unequal in length; deep 
cream color; clearing the stem as they curve upward 
towards cap. 

Stem: Solid; equal diameter; tough and fibrous; naked and 
smooth at base. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Sweet, "nutty," and appetizing. 

Odor: Aromatic and pleasant. 

Habitat: Pastures and lawns, generally growing in rings or 
curved lines. 
Diameter of pileus, full expansion, one to two inches. 



PLATE VIM 







vTjT-'-V ' >, 



' "\>.-v -. 

IV I > 







>& 




/v 
' 



- 



> 



MARASMIUS OREADES. 



AGARICS IO7 

" These rings are sometimes of very ancient date, 
and attain such enormous dimensions as to be dis- 
tinctly visible on a hill-side for a great 
The "ring" distance. It is believed that they orig- 
expiained inate from a single fungus whose growth 
renders the soil immediately beneath 
unfit for its reproduction. The spawn, however, 
spreads all around, and in the second year produces 
a crop, whose spawn spreads again, the exhausted 
soil behind forbidding its return in that direction. 
Thus the circle is continually increased, and extends 
indefinitely till some cause intervenes to destroy it. 
If the spawn does not spread on all sides at first, an 
arc of a circle only is produced. The manure aris- 
ing from the dead fungi of former years makes the 
grass peculiarly vigorous around, so as to render the 
circle visible even when there is no external appear- 
ance of fungus, and the contrast is often stronger 
from that behind being killed by the old spawn. 
This mode of growth is far more common than is 
supposed, and may be observed constantly in our 
woods, where the spawn can spread only in the soil 
or among the leaves and decaying fragments which 
cover it." 

Many recipes are recommended for the preparation 
of this mushroom, some of which are given in a later 
chapter, including the method of des- 
Various iccation so commonly employed with 
recipes other species, and by which the cham- 
pignon may be kept for ready use 
throughout the winter months. 

In its fresh state, according to J. M. Berkeley, " When 



IOS EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of good size and quickly grown, it is perhaps the best 
of all fungi for the table, whether carefully fried or 
stewed with an admixture of finely mixed herbs and 
a minute portion of garlic. It is at the same time 
tender and easy of digestion, and when once its use is 
known and its character ascertained, no species may 
be eaten with less fear. It is so common in some dis- 
tricts that bushels may be gathered in a day." 

FALSE OR POISON CHAMPIGNON 

Marasmius nrens 

There are two other species of mushroom which 
might possibly be mistaken for the above by the 
casual eye, but which are easily distinguishable on 
careful examination. The first of these is the false 
Champignon (Plate 9, fig. i). The most important 
distinguishing features are italicized. They will be 
seen to afford a striking contrast to the true edible 
species in these especial characters. 

The pileus is pale buff, convex, central mound ab- 
sent; the cap varies from one-half to one and a half 
inches in diameter, and is thus slightly smaller than 
the " true " fairy-ring ; gills, yellowish brown, narrow, 
and crowded, twenty -five or more to the inch at cir- 
cumference in good specimen, curving upward at 
junction with stem, thus "free" from actual attach- 
ment ; stem, solid, clothed with whitish down, espe- 
cially noticeable at the base ; cup, none ; taste, acrid. 
This last quality alone should distinguish the species, 
which, moreover, usually grows in woods, though oc- 
casionally found upon the lawn in association with 
the edible species. 



C/foaz 



zadmud 



pewnatuA 



TLATE IX 

POISONOUS CHAMPIGNONS 

Marasmius urens 

Pileus: Pale buff in color; tough and fleshy; flat convex, 

becoming depressed and at length wrinkled; one to two 
inches in diameter. 
Gills: Unequal, cream colored, becoming brownish; much 

closer together than in the true Champignon, hardly 

reaching the stem proper. 
Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, its surface more or less covered 

with white, flocculent down, and densely clothed with 

white down at base. 
Taste: Acrid. 
Habitat: Lawns and pastures, often in association with the 

edible M. creates. 

Marasmius peronatus 

Pileus: Reddish buff; convex slightly flattened at top, be- 
coming convex by expansion; very wrinkled when old; 
diameter, at full expansion, between one and two inches. 

Gills : Thin and crowded ; creamy, becoming light reddish 
brown, continuing slightly down stem by a short, abrupt 
curve. 

Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, densely clothed with stiff yel- 
low hairs at base. 

Taste: Acrid. 

Habitat: In woods, among dead leaves, etc. 



PLATE IX 



Uv' ' -^t 




POISONOUS CHAMPIGNONS. 



MARASMIUS URENS. 



M. PERONATUS. 



AGARICS I I 3 



POISONOUS FAIRY-RING MUSHROOM 
Marasmius pcronatus 

The other false species (Plate 9, fig. 2) still more 
closely simulates the "fairy-ring," but may be identi- 
fied by the growth of spines at the base of the stalk. 
The gills are also annexed to the stalk by a small, 
sharp, recurved tooth. Like the previous spurious 
species, it is found in woods, and is rarely to be seen 
in association with the true Champignon or in its 
peculiar haunt. 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 
Agaricus (Lepiotd) procerus 

One of the most readily recognized of our wild 
mushrooms is the pasture or parasol Agaric (Aga- 
ricus procerus], a cluster of which in 
various stages of development is shown 

Description . 

in Plate 10. It is frequently abundant 

in pasture - lands, and is occasionally 
found in woods. Its conspicuous cap sometimes 
measures six inches or more in diameter, the centre 
being abruptly raised in a mound. The pileus is at 
first egg-shaped. The color of the full specimen is 
pale- brown or buff, more or less spotted with darker 
brown shaggy patches, generally arranged in some- 
what concentric order. The skin of the cap is thick 
and somewhat tough, especially in drying. The gills 
are almost pure white in early specimens, slightly 
creamy later, and unequal in length. Stem, often 
six or eight inches high, proportionately slender, and 
of equal diameter, bulbous at base, but without a 



114 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

cup, hollow, fibrous, finely speckled or streaked with 
brown, and deeply inserted in the cap, at which 
juncture, by a narrow flat space, as shown in the 
section drawing below, it is distinctly free from con- 
tact with the gills. The remnants of the veil are in 
the form of a more or less detachable ring encircling 




the stem. The spores are white and odorous. The 
flavor, when raw, is distinctly nutty, aromatic, sweet, 
and palatable ; when dry, slightly pungent. 

This species is cosmopolitan, and is a great favor- 
ite on the Continent- -in France being known as the 
Coulemelle, in Italy as Bubbola mag- 
Simple giore, and in Spain as Cogomelos. It 
recipe f s by many considered as the choicest 
of all mushrooms, and is indeed a deli- 
cious morsel when quickly broiled over coals, seasoned . 
to taste with salt and pepper and butter melted in 
the gills, and served hot on buttered toast. Other 
recipes are noted in a later chapter. The scurfy 
spots and stems should be removed before cooking. 




azicii6 pzocezu6 



TLATE X 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 

Agarieus procerus 

Pileus : At first egg-shaped, finally expanded like a parasol 
four to seven inches in diameter, the apex raised in a 
prominent mound or " umbo." Color pale buff or creamy, 
occasionally almost pure white, more or less regularly 
spotted with the brown shaggy patches of the separating 
epidermis, which remains of the pale brown color on the 
"umbo." Skin thick and somewhat tough; substance 
hygrometric, drying and swelling naturally in its haunts. 

Gills: Unequal in length; crowded; at first almost white, 
finally becoming creamy or pale buff. 

Stem: Tall, slender, equal, hollow, and fibrous; bulbous at 
base, but with no sign of a "cup;" separated from the 
gills above by a distinct space ; surface streaked and 
speckled with brown, encircled by a loose ring. 

Spores: White, and, like the whole plant, fragrant aromatic 
more so, perhaps, than any other fungus. 

Taste: Distinctly sweet and "nutty," slightly pungent when 
dry. 

Habitat: Pastures and fields, occasionally woods. 

Season: Summer. 



PLATE X 



i%i t-u 




^ . ' 

- / ?r/ 4 "' ' ' 

/ / ~*->-yr ( i f \ 

v A -< ; 




..' , '*"-,. 




AGARICUS PROCERUS. 



AGARICS 119 

This species is especially free from the swarming 
grubs too commonly found in mushrooms. It is high- 
ly hygrometric, dries naturally even 
Hygrometric while standing in the pasture, in which 
properties condition it is decidedly aromatic in 
fragrance and nutty sweet to the taste, 
as described. Indeed, it is sometimes called "the 
nut mushroom." Absorbing moisture from the dews 
and rains, it again becomes pulpy and enlarged, thus 
alternating for clays between its juicy and dry con- 
dition, in which latter state it may be gathered and 
kept for winter use. It is a palatable morsel at all 
times, but especially in the prime of its first expan- 
sion, each successive alternation, with its gradual loss 
of spores, affecting its full flavor. 

THE RUSSULA GROUP 

Among the wild species of mushrooms which the 
novice might possibly mistake for the common "mush- 
room " of the markets which is popularly supposed 
to be the only edible variety, as distinguished from 
"toadstools" is the Russula group. They are ex- 
tremely frequent in our woods from spring to late 
autumn, and have many features in common. Their 
caps vary in color from a gray -green, suggesting 
cheese-mould, to olive-red, scarlet-red, 
Generic and purplish. The gills are generally 
characters o f the same length, or practically so, 
occasionally double- branched, begin- 
ning at the stem and usually extending to the rim of 
the cap, at which portion they are covered by the 



I2O EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

mere skin of the pileus, a slightly fluted appearance 
being observable from above, which indicates the lo- 
cation of the radiating laminae below (Plate 12, fig. 6). 

The stem may be white or cream-colored, or perhaps 
stained or mottled with the color of the cap. 

There are at least four of these edible Russulae 
that we are certain of meeting in our walks in the 
woods : The green Russula (./?. virescens), with its mot- 
tled cap of mouldy or sage green; the various-gilled 
Russula (R. heterophylla), varying in the 
Principal lengths of its gill plates ; the purple 
species Russula (R. lepida\ whose cap varies 
from bright red to dull purple ; and the 
red Russula (R. alutaced], which presents a variety of 
shades of red, from bright to dull. Having once 
identified the Russula as a group, or the common 
characteristics of the genus, we may take our pick 
from all of these delicious species for the table ; but 
we must avoid one other member of the genus, also 
quite common, and which frequently masquerades in 
the oruise of some of the bright red varieties above 

o o 

mentioned. This is the R. emetica, whose obnoxious 
qualities are indicated by its classical surname, and 
which will be separately considered. 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 
Agaricus (Russula) virescetis 

Our first species, the green Russula, is to be found 
throughout the summer in hard-wood groves, and is 
apt to frequent the same immediate locality from year 
to year. I know one such veritable mushroom bed 
in the woods near by, where I am almost certain of 



AGARICS 



121 



my mess of Russule almost any day in their season. 

This species is shown in its various stages of develop- 

ment and also in section in Plate 1 1. Its substance is 

firm and solid creamy white. The pileus, at first al- 

most hemispherical, as it pushes its 

specific way through the earth, at length be- 

characters comes convex, with a slight hollow at 

the centre, and later ascends in a gentle 

slope from centre to rim. Its color is sage green, or 

mouldy green, usually quite unbroken in tint at cen- 

tre, but more or less disconnected into spots as it ap- 



^jr-^f -, '{ 






^3s?*^jll 'fflS^iW^ :t O^X~ I 




RUSSULA VIRESCENS 

(Showing mottled cap of occasional specimen, and variations in gills, i even ; 2 forked ; 3 dimidiate.) 

proaches the circumference by the gradual expansion 
of the cap, the creamy undertint appearing like net- 
work between the separated patches of color. The 
substance of the cap becomes gradually thinned tow- 
ards the circumference, where the mere cuticle con- 
nects the gills, the position of these gills being ob- 
servable from above in a faint fluting of the edge, a 
peculiarity of all the Russulae. The cuticle peels 



122 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

readily some distance from the edge, leaving the 
projecting tips of the gills exposed in a row of comb- 
like teeth, but usually adheres towards the centre of 
cap. The gills, with rare exceptions, are all of the 
same length, white or creamy in color, firm and thick, 
but very brittle, easily broken into fragments by a rude 
touch, a characteristic of all the group ; spores, white. 
The stem is short, stout, and solid, and usually tapers 
towards the base. There is no vestige of a cup or 
veil at any stage of growth. 

A fine specimen of the green Russula should 
measure five inches in diameter when fully open, but 
three inches is probably the average size. 

When once acquainted with the above as a type 
of the Russula group, noting the firm substance, 
straight, equal gills, and their brittle 
The noxious texture ; the sweet, nutty flavor com- 
kussuia mon to all the edible species, these be- 
come readily identified, the noxious 
Russulae, as in the brilliant pink or scarlet R. emetica 
(Plate 13), being acrid and peppery to the taste. 

In an auspicious season and in a congenial habitat 
usually an open wood with scant undergrowth and 
preferably raked clean of dead leaves the green Rus- 
sula is often abundant. Familiarity even with this 
one species will often afford a sufficien- 

Green Russula f uns r us f oo d during its season. A 

often & . 

sufficient lady amateur mycophagist or the writ- 
er's acquaintance, whose home is locat- 
ed at the border of such a wood as is above described, 
and who is especially fond of the green Russula, is 
never at a loss for this especially prized tidbit as a 



TLATE XI 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 

Russula virescens 

Pileus : Very firm; solid, dull, dry-surfaced, as with a fine 
"flock"; mouldy green or creamy, with sage-greenish 
broken spots more united at centre; occasionally entirely 
green, with warty patches of darker hue. At first glob- 
ular, then convex with flat top, at length expanded and 
hollowed towards centre. 

Gills: Pale, creamy white; commonly all of equal length, but 
frequently unequal and forked; very brittle, breaking in 
pieces at a rude touch. 

Stem: Solid; creamy white; no veil. 

Taste : Very mild, sweet, and nut-like. 

Habitat: In woods July-September. 

Diameter of pileus, ideal specimen, four inches. 



PLATE XI 






- 





RUSSULA VlRESCENS. 



AGARICS 



127 



reward for her daily stroll among the trees. A vis- 
itor may often see upon her buffet a small glass dish 
filled with the mushrooms, nicely scraped and cut in 
pieces an ever-present relish between meals. For 
even in their natural state, as she discriminatingly 
says, they are "as sweet as chestnuts." This is espe- 
cially the case with the " buttons " or younger speci- 
mens. 

PURPLE RUSSULA 

Riessnla lepida 

This, perhaps the most common species, is figured 
in Plate 12, fig. 3. It corresponds with the fore- 
going in size as well as in general shape, firm text- 




RUSSULA LEPIDA -CONTORTED AND CRACKED PILEUS 

ure, and friable nature of the gills. The pileus of 
this species frequently assumes eccentric shapes, or is 
often cracked, as seen in the accompanying cut. Its 



128 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

name of " purple " is probably local in its application, 
as it is known also as the red Russula, neither of 

which titles is at all distinctive. In- 
Color of cap deed, the color of the cap is often a mis- 
misleading leading character for identification, as a 

given species may vary greatly in this 
particular. This feature is thus generally omitted in 
purely scientific descriptions, more dependence being 
placed upon the tint of the flesh and that of the spore 
surface, the laminas or gills, which are more perma- 
nent and reliable as a character. Thus, in the present 
species, R. lepida, the tint of the pileus or cap is often 
of a deep dull purplish red or ruddy wine color. An- 
other authority describes it as violet -red and cherry- 
red or slightly tawny, paler at circumference. Berke- 
ley, in his British Fungi, omits any reference to the 
color of the cap, as evidently of little value in identifi- 
cation. But from numerous examples gathered by 
the present writer, the color may, I think, be safely 

averaged under the general hue of dark, 

Specific subdued red inclining to maroon. The 

characters surface is dull, as with a fine dust or 

plum-like bloom, and thus without pol- 
ish. Occasional specimens appear almost velvety in 
the sheen of surface. But the tints of the flesh and 
the gills are always uniform, the leaflets or gills being 
pure white or very slightly creamy, continuous from 
stem to rim or occasionally forked, not crowded, 
curved in outline in open specimen, with broadest 
width near the circumference of cap. The flesh is 
white or slightly creamy, firm and compact as in the 
former species, with the same variations of outline 



TLATE XII 

EDIBLE RUSSUL/E 

1. Russula heterophylla Variable Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; greenish or pinkish -gray; at first con- 
vex, with flat top, ultimately rising from centre to rim. 

Gills: Milk-white; extremely brittle, like all the Russule, 
and easily crumbled (see Fig. 7) ; long, short, and forked 
intermixed. Fig. 5. 

Stem: Milk-white; solid. 

Taste : Mild and sweet. 

2. Russula alutacea Yellow- gilled Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; shape as in above; color very variable, 
from bright to deep red; cuticle thin at rim, where the 
lines of junction of gills are readily discernible from above 
by the depressed channels. Fig. 6. 

Gills: Equal, brittle, broad; yellow -buff color in all stages. 
Fig. 4. 

Stem: Solid; milk-white, commonly stained or streaked with 
red towards the base. 

Taste : Sweet and nut-like. 

3. Russula lepida Purple Russula 

Pileus: In shape like above, varying in color from bright 
red to dull, subdued purplish, with a distinct bloom. 

Gills : White, broad, principally even, occasionally forked as 
in Fig. i ; like the above, extremely brittle. Fig. 7. 

Stem: Solid; white, usually stained and streaked with pink. 
Fig. 8. 

Taste : Sweet, and similar to above. 

Average diameter of extended pileus of each of these spe- 
cies about three and one-half inches; veil absent in each. 
Habitat: All grow in woods July-September. 



PLATE XII 




EDIBLE RUSSULAE. 

RU55ULA HETEROPHYLLA. R.ALUTACEA. RLEPIDA. 



AGARICS '33 

from early stage to maturity. The stem is white, 
solid, and generally more or less tinted or streaked 
vertically with rose or pale crimson (Fig. 8). The 
taste of the flesh is sweet and appetizing. 

YELLOW-GILLED RUSSULA 
Russula alutacea 

Our third example of the Russula is one which is 
also quite common in our woods, and which might in 
the extreme variation of its color be confounded with 
the last by a careless observer, as indeed both might 
be still further confounded with the poisonous mem- 
ber bearing the red tint, and which will be hereafter 
considered. The Russula alutacea (PL 12, figs. 2, 4, 6) 
is a delicious species. In general size 
Botanical and contour it resembles the foregoing. 
characters The color of the cap varies from bright- 
red to blood -red or even approaching 
the purplish red of the preceding species, lightening 
towards edge. But we have a clear distinction in the 
color of the gills, which are distinctly yellowish, pale 
ochre, or nankeen, in all stages of the mushroom, or 
even tawny in old specimens. They are, moreover, 
usually all of even length, being straight and continu- 
ous from stem to circumference of pileus, none of 
them forked, their juncture with the edge of the cap 
being clearly manifest from above by the thinness of 
the cuticle. The flesh is white, stem firm and solid, 
white and smooth, often tinted with pink or red. The 
flesh of the cap often appears pinkish upon peeling 
the cuticle from the edge. The taste resembles that 
of the previous species sweet and nutty. 



134 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

VARIOUS-GILLED RUSSULA 
Russitla heterophylla 

Growing in company with both of the above is 
frequently to be seen another species, which is some- 
what protean in its accomplishments of color, but 
which in the character of its gills, as implied in its 
scientific name, gives us a ready means 
Botanical of identification heterophylla various- 
characters leaved (PI. 12, figs, i and 5). In the pre- 
vious examples of Russulas the gills have 
been commonly straight, continuous from stem to 
edge of cap, or more rarely forked and continuous in 
the bifurcation. In the present species we have both 
of these conditions, combined also with \vhat are 
called dimidiate gills, or shorter leaflets, which reach, 
perhaps, only half-way from rim to stem, all crowded 
together and alternating. The color of the cap is 
very variable occasionally pinkish-ash color or dull 
pinkish-gray inclining to green or olive or even red. 
Its surface is smoother than in the foregoing species, 
being almost polished, and the pellicle of the cap is 
usually noticeably thinner. Having found such a 
specimen, possessing also all the other attributes of 
shape, firmness of flesh, and dry brittleness of gills, 
if tasted and found sweet in flavor it may be eaten 
without the slightest fear, and like its congeners will 
be found a delicious morsel, whether nibbled raw, as 
the squirrels are so fond of doing, or served hot on 
toast as an entree, or otherwise prepared according 
to taste. 

Various methods prevail in the culinary prepara- 



AGARICS 135 

tion of the Russula mushroom, many of which are 

suggested among the receipts in another chapter, but 

broiling is perhaps the most simple and 

Delicious o-enerally satisfactory. Having thor- 
broiled 

Russula oughly cleaned the top, or, if desired, 
peeled the cuticle, place the mushrooms 
on a gridiron over a hot fire, gills downward, for a 
few moments, sufficient to allow them to be heated 
through without scorching. Then reverse them and 
repeat the process, melting a small piece of butter in 
the gills and salting and peppering to taste; serve 
hot on toast or in the platter with roast beef or fowl. 
They are also delicious fried in the ordinary way, 
either with or without batter. 

The Russula is particularly in favor among the 
fungus- eating insects, whose rapid development and 




AN INFESTED SPECIMEN 



voracity are consistently related to the ephemeral 
nature of their food. A Russula specimen showing 



136 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

barely a trace of insect life when gathered will some- 
times prove literally honey-combed and totally unfit 
for food in the space of twenty-four hours. It is 
therefore well to cut each specimen in sections be- 
fore venturing upon its preparation for the table, and 
to profit thereby according to our individual fastidi- 
ousness, as suggested on page 37. 

While the above esculent species of Russulae are 
being familiarized by the tyro, he must now be put 
on guard against a certain dangerous species of the 
group, which is sure to claim his attention, being 
especially fond of the good company of its cousins, 
and likely to do some mischief through its frequent 
disguise. 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 
Russula cmetica 

The variability in the coloring of the three edible 
species already described brings them occasionally 

into such close similarity with the 

The poisonous gamut of color of the one common poi- 

Russula sonous species of the group that this 

enemy must also be familiarized ere we 
venture too confidently upon our Russula diet. The 
Russula emetica (Plate 13), as its name implies, is at 
war with luxurious gastronomy, but its distinction 
from the harmless varieties is, after all, quite simple. 
Its frequent general similarity to R. Icpida and R. 
alutacea is such that the amateur should hardly rely 
upon the botanical characters alone. There is but 
one safe, as it is a simple, rule for him : He should 
taste every specimen of Jiis Russula of zuJiatever kind 



emeticau 



TLATE XIII 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 

Russula emetiea 

Pileus: Expansion two to four inches; color varying from 
pale bright pink to deep scarlet; very smooth. 

Gills: Broad (in section), mostly equal in length, and contin- 
uous from edge of cap to stem; not crowded; white. 

Stem: White or pinkish. 

Spores: White, like all Russulae. 

Taste : Hot and peppery. 

Habitat : Woods, with other Russulse. 

Season: July-September. 

NOTE. While, for conservative reasons, the poisonous reputation of this 
species is here perpetuated, it is quite probable that such condemnation is un- 
warranted, except as to the raw mushroom. The peppery tang and demoral- 
izing powers are now claimed to be dissipated in cooking, and the Emetiea will 
doubtless soon be more generally included with its congeners among the es- 
culents, thus bringing the entire genus fittsstila into the friendly group. 

Captain Charles Mcllvaine is largely responsible for this conversion in favor 
of Emetiea. His individual experiments warrant him in pronouncing this species 
"as good as the rest" when cooked. Others of the writer's acquaintance, fol- 
lowing his example, echo his opinion. 



PLATE XIII 




RUSSULA EMETICA. 

(POISONOUS) 



AGARICS 141 

before venturing upon its use as food. All of the 
sweet and palatable Russula? are esculent. When 

he chances upon the R. emetica he will 

A warning be aware of its important demoraliz- 

tang ing resources in the peppery-hot tingle 

of his tongue, which, if not instantly 
perceived, will within the space of a minute assert 
itself distinctly. All such acrid specimens should 
be excluded, as a single one would be sufficient to 
bring an ignominious denouement to an otherwise 
delectable feast. In the typical R. emetica the pileus 
is a bright, brilliant red which, as we have said, 
is very variable, as indicated in our plate often 
polished and shining ; the gills broad, equal, straight, 
continuous, not crowded, and white, as is the flesh be- 
neath the peeled cuticle. The stem is white or pink. 
The cap will average, perhaps, three inches in diam- 
eter, though occasionally reaching the dimensions in- 
dicated by the marks in plate, or even larger. 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 
Agaricus ostreatus 

What a mass of nutritious food do we occasionally 
pass in innocence or spurn with our foot upon the old 
stump or fallen log in the woods ! a neglected feast, 
indeed, if the specialists on edible fungi are to be be- 
lieved ; a feast, in truth, for a big family, if we chance 
upon even an average cluster of the " vegetable oys- 
ter," which is pictured in Plate 14. 

I have commonly observed this species, the Agari- 
cus ostreatus, in the autumn, and this is the season 
given for its appearance in Europe by the authorities; 



142 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



but according to certain American specialists, notably 
Charles Mcllvaine, it is common in our woods in 

spring, even as early as March, and 

A "vegetable through the summer. It is usually 

oyster" found in large clusters, similar to our 

illustration, growing upon decaying 
stumps and the trunks of various trees. The " oys- 
ter" is a gilled mushroom which grows side-wise from 
its position, the stem being usually lateral and very 
short, though occasionally quite prolonged, the two 
varieties being indicated in the accompanying cut. 




AGARICUS OSTREATUS VARIATIONS IN FORM 

The individual mushroom may be five or six inch- 
es in breadth, a cluster affording several pounds in 
weight. The color of the upper surface is light 
brown or buff, varying to yellowish-ashen, according 
to age, and the gills are dirty white of various 
lengths ; spores white. 

This species and the one following belong to the 
subdivision of the typical genus Agaricus, called 
Leucospori-- white spored. The division has many 




O6tzeatu6 



TLATE XI IS 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 

Agarieus ostreatus 

Pileus: Four to six inches in diameter; smooth. Color, dull, 

light yellowish, sometimes pale ochre or grayish. 
Gills: Dingy white; of various lengths, extending down the 

stem. 

Stem: Short or obsolete; on the side of pileus. 
Spores: White. 
Taste : Agreeable ; suggesting the flavor of the cooked oyster ; 

texture tough in older specimens. 
Odor: Pleasant. 
Habitat: On old tree trunks and fallen logs, occasionally in 

dense masses. 



PLATE XIV 




AGARICUS OSTREATUS. 



ACARICS 



147 



sub -genera. The particular sub -genus in which 
these are included is the Pleurotus, or side -foot 
mushrooms, as they are sometimes called. 

Another earlier species with which A. ostreatus 
might be confounded (A. cuosinns] has spores of a 
rosy pinkish or lilac hue, a sufficient identification, 
and is accounted injurious. 





: * 



<s 



THIRTY POUNDS OF VEGETABLE MEAT 

The clustering growth of the " Oyster Mushroom ' : 
frequently attains huge proportions, as will be seen 
from the above reproduction of a photograph sent to 
me by a correspondent. The dimensions of the mass 



148 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

are easily judged by the height of the gun leaning 
against the tree, and introduced for comparison. 

This " Oyster Mushroom " should be gathered in 

its young state, and may be served in various ways. 

Broiling over the coals, gills upward, 

Broiled seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt 

oyster 

recipe during the cooking, is a favorite meth- 
od with most of the Agarics, but a well- 
known fungus epicure claims that this mushroom 
" may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, and 
will be found fine eating." 

The average specimen will probably prove more 
ashen in hue than those represented in my plate. 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 
Agaricus nlmarins 

This edible species of mushroom, allied to the 
foregoing, and which grows in similar clusters on the 
elm-tree, is the Agaricus ulmarius (Plate 
Appetizing 15). While much difference of opinion 
qualities prevails regarding the appetizing qual- 
ities of this mushroom or its ri^ht to 

O 

a place among the esculents, this varying individual 
judgment has doubtless often had direct reference 
to the character of the particular specimen chosen 
for trial. Dr. M. C. Cooke is not disposed to place a 
high appreciation upon its qualities. " It has been 
customary," he says, " to regard this and some of its 
allies [presumably in allusion to the preceding] as 
alimentary, but there is no doubt that they could all 
be very well spared from the list." Opposed to this 
uncomplimentary aspersion is the testimony of other 




azicud ulmaziud 



TLATE XV 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 

Agarieus ulmarius 

Pileus : From three to five inches in diameter. Color, pale 
yellow or buff ; smooth in young specimen, fissured, 
spotted, and leathery at maturity. Flesh in section white. 

Gills : Dingy white, becoming tawny at maturity, extending 
down the stem. 

Stem : Various in length, occasionally very short and attached 
to side of pileus; generally longer as in Plate, and "off 
centre"; white; substance solid. 

Spores: White. 

Taste : Suggesting fish when cooked. 

Odor: Pleasant. 

Habitat: Trunk of elm or from surfaces of broken or sawn 
branches. Often growing in dense masses covering sev- 
eral square feet. 



PLATE XV 







' , 






/ 



/ : , . - -. 

- 







AGARICUS ULMARIUS. 



AGARICS 153 

authorities who claim that " it is most delectable " 
and "a delicious morsel." Certain it is that in its 
young and tender condition only is it fit for food, as 
it becomes progressively tough in consistency tow- 
ards maturity. 

As its specific name implies Ulmus this mush- 
room is devoted to the elm, upon whose trunk and 

branches it may be often seen, either 
Massive singly, which is rare, or in great dense 
growth masses, sometimes covering a space of 

several square feet, often, unfortunately, 
at an inaccessible height from the ground. I have 
in my possession a photograph which has been sent 
to me by an interested correspondent representing 
a dead tree trunk, apparently a foot in diameter, 
densely covered to a height of seven feet from the 
ground with a mass of the A. uljnarius--2j\& pre- 
sumably representing thirty or forty pounds in weight. 
This species is most frequently seen on apparently 
healthy branches, or growing from the wood of a 
severed limb. Its season is late summer and au- 
tumn. 

A small cluster of these mushrooms is seen in 
Plate 15. They afford a good refutation of the old- 
time discriminating " ban," which excluded all mush- 
rooms which grow "sidewise," or " upon wood." The 

individual mushroom of this species is 

Botanical a horizontal grower, sometimes with a 

characters barely noticeable or obsolete stem ; in 

other specimens this portion being 
quite distinct and an inch or more in length, and 
firm and solid in texture. The upper surface is pale 



154 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

yellow or buff, smooth in the younger specimens, be- 
coming disfigured by spots and fissures with age. 
The flesh is white, as also are the gills, though more 
dingy, becoming tawny- tinted with maturity, when 
the entire mushroom becomes quite leathery in sub- 
stance, and might well awaken doubts as to its di- 
gestibility. The spores are white. 

This fungus is known in some sections as the 
" Fish Mushroom," referring to its peculiar flavor, the 
appropriateness of which appellation is suggested in 
the incident related by Mr. Palmer, and quoted in 
my last chapter. 

SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 
Coprinus comatus 

Upon a certain spot on the lawn of one of my 

neighbors, year after year, without fail, there springs 

up a most singular crop. For the first 

A plebeian two seasons of its appearance it was 
toadstool looked upon with curious awe by the 
proprietors of the premises, and usually 
ignominiously spurned with the foot by the undis- 
criminating and destructive small boy. One day I 
observed about five pounds of this fungus delicacy 
thus scattered piecemeal about the grass, and my 
protest has since spared the annual crop for my sole 
benefit. It usually makes its appearance in late 
September, and continues in intermittent crops until 
November. A casual observer happening upon a 
cluster of the young mushrooms might imagine that 
he beheld a convention of goose eggs standing on 
end in the grass, their summits spotted with brown. 



(9opzinu6 comatu6 



TLATE XVI 

THE SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 

Coprinus comatus 

Pileus: Egg-shaped in young specimens; at length more 
cylindrical, and finally expanded, melting away in inky 
fluid. Color, creamy white, becoming black at edge with 
advancing age, as is also the case with the shaggy points 
upon its surface, which generally cover the pileus. 

Gills: Crowded; equal in length; creamy white in young 
specimens, becoming pink, brown, and finally black, and 
always moist. 

Stem : Cylindrical ; creamy white ; hollow, or with a loose 
cottony pith. 

Spores : Black, falling away in drops. 

Taste : Sweet, which applies only to the pink or white con- 
dition, at which time alone the species is considered es- 
culent. 

Habitat: Lawns, pastures, gardens, and rich grounds in the 
neighborhood of barns, etc. ; usually grows in dense 
clusters. 

Diameter of cylindrical pileus in average specimens, two 
inches. 

One of the most easily identified of all mushrooms. 



PLATE XVI 



' 




ir*W 



,- ' 









COPRINUS COMATUS. 



AGARICS 



If one of them is examined, it is seen to be a 
curious short-stemmed mushroom which never fully 
expands (Plate 16), perhaps five inches high, and 
whose surface is curiously decorated with shaggy 




A DINNER FOR A FAMILY 



patches. In its early stages it is white and singular- 
ly egglike, but later becomes brownish, its curved 
shaggy points finally changing to almost black. The 
concealed gills are crowded and of equal length, at 



l6o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

first creamy white, but gradually changing through 
a whole gamut of pinks, sepias, and browns until they 
become black, at which time the whole substance of 
the cap melts on its elongated stalk 
inky deliquesces into an unsightly inky paste, 
deliquescence which besmears the grass and ultimate- 
ly leaves only the bare white stem 
standing in its midst, a peculiar method of dissem- 
ination which distinguishes the group Coprinus, of 
which it is the most conspicuous example. This is 
the " shaggy-mane " mushroom, Coprinus comatus, the 
specific name signifying a wig "from the fancied 
resemblance to a wig on a barber's block." Even 
a brief description is unnecessary with its portrait 
before us. It is a savory morsel, and it cannot be 
confounded with any other fungus. It frequently 
grows in such dense, crowded masses that a single 
group will afford a dinner for a family. 

It should be gathered while the skills are in the 

o o 

early white or pink stage, and may be prepared for 
the table in various ways, either broiled or fried, as 
described for previous species, or stewed with milk, 
or otherwise served according to the culinary hints in 
our later chapter, in which a special recipe for this 
species is found. 

In a recent stroll down the main street of Litch- 
field, Connecticut, I observed, over the fence in a 
front door-yard of a summer resident, just such a 
dense cluster of the shaggy Coprinus, the proprietor 
of the premises, an appreciative habitue of Delmoni- 
co's at other seasons of the year, complacently read- 
ing his morning paper in his piazza, little dreaming 



(oopzinud atzamentaziud 



TLATE XVII 

THE INKY TOADSTOOL 

Coprinus atramentarius 

Pileus: Fleshy, moist; at first egg-shaped; of a Quaker-drab, 
dirty white, or even pale brownish color; at length be- 
coming expanded, umbrella -like, when it melts away in 
inky drops. 

Gills r Broad and crowded, not adhering to stem at top; 
creamy white in young species, becoming pinkish gray, 
and at length black. 

Stem: Firm; white; hollow. 

Spores: Black; shed in liquid drops. 

Taste : Sweet, as is also the odor, which applies to its early 
stage only. 

Habitat : About old decaying stumps and rotten wood, gar- 
dens, rich lawns, and barn -yards; usually growing in 
clusters, often very dense. 

Diameter of pileus, young state, two inches. 



PLATE XVII 




COPRINUS ATRAMENTARIUS. 



AGARICS 165 

of the twenty pounds of dainty diet, fit for a king, so 
easily available. 

INKY MUSHROOM 
Coprinus atramentaritts 

In frequent company with the foregoing will be 

found another allied species, Coprinus atramentarius 

(Plate 17), with the same inky propensities, which is 

scarcely less delicious as an article of food. In this 

species the shaggy feature is absent, there being 

merely a few obscure slightly raised stains at the 

summit, of a brownish color. The stem 

Botanical is white and hollow. The surface of 

characters the pileus is smooth and of a Quaker- 
drab color, occasionally dirty-white, or 
with a slight shade of ochre, moist to the touch, dark- 
ened by rubbing. In the eatable stage the caps are 
drooping, as shown in the cluster on the plate, while 
the mature specimen expands considerably before its 
inky deliquescence. Its texture when young is firm, 
and the thick gray cuticle peels readily, leaving an 
appetizing nutty-flavored morsel, delicious even when 
raw. The inky Agaric is frequent about barn-yards, 
gardens, and old stumps in woods, and usually grows 
in such crowded masses that the central individuals 
are compressed into hexagonal shape. Like the 
previous variety, it should be collected for food while 
its gills are in the white or pink stage. 

Cordier claims that all the species of Coprinus are 
eatable at this stage. The profusion in which they 
occasionally abound renders it often a simple matter 
to obtain a bushel of them in a few minutes. 



I 66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS' 

Like the foregoing, a large cluster of these mush- 
rooms leaves a most unsightly spot on the lawn. A 
diluted solution of this melting sub- 
Coprinus stance, as Cooke assures us, has been 
ink used " to replenish the ink-bottle. The 

resemblance is so complete that it may 
readily be employed as a substitute, all that is required 
being to boil and strain it, and add a small quantity 
of corrosive sublimate to prevent its turning mouldy." 
It may also be employed as pigment. It is, indeed, 
quite possible to paint the portrait of Coprinus with 
its own dark sepia, as the author has personally 
demonstrated. (See head -piece to " Illustrations.") 

MILKY MUSHROOM 
Lactarius deliciosus 

Prominent among the fungi which give unmistak- 
able characters for their identification is the genus 
Lactarius, or milky mushrooms, another group of the 
agarics or gilled fungi, from which we will select for 

our first example the Lactarius delici- 

Orange=milk osus, or orange-milk Agaric (Plate 18). 

Agaric The figure will itself almost serve to 

identify it in its advanced open stage. 
Having found a specimen resembling our illustration, 
and anywhere from three to five inches in expanse, 
its general upper surface dull rcddisli- orange in 
color, more or less plainly banded with darker red, 
it is safe to predict that when its surface or gills are 
broken an exudation of milky juice will follow. If 
this exudation is orange or deep yellow in hue, grad- 
ually turning greenish on exposure, the identification 



actaziuA deLicio6u6 



TLATE XVlll 

THE ORANGE-MILK MUSHROOM 

Lactarius delieiosus 

Pileus : Diameter three to five inches. Color varying from 
yellow to dull orange, or even brownish yellow with 
mottled zones of deeper color, especially in younger 
plants ; outline at first convex, ultimately somewhat fun- 
nel-shaped ; surface usually smooth and moist. 

Flesh : Brittle ; creamy, more or less stained with orange. 

Gills: Orange; generally clearer in hue than the pileus; when 
bruised, exuding a copious milky juice of orange color, 
becoming greenish in drying. 

Stem: Paler than pileus; hollow; occasionally spotted with 
orange or greenish stains from bruises. 

Spores: White. 

Taste : Slightly peppery. 

Habitat: Woods, pine-groves, and swamps. 

Season: July-September. 



PLATE XVIII 







B 



LACTARIUS DELICIOSUS. 



AGARICS 171 

is complete, and we have the orange-milk L. delicio- 
sus, of which an authority says, " It really deserves its 
name, being the most delicious mushroom known." 
W. G. Smith goes still further in its praise, assuring 
us that " when cooked with taste and care it is one 
of the greatest delicacies of the vegetable kingdom.' 

O O O 

The taste of this species when raw is slightly acrid, 
but this quality disappears in the cooking. 

One other species of Lactarius, L. volcmnm, may 
properly find a place in this work as being easily rec- 
ognized. In general shape it resembles 
Mild ^ deliciosus. The top is of a rich sien- 

white = milk * 

species na golden hue ; the gills are crowded. 

The milk is white as it first falls from 

the fracture, becoming dull dark -reddish, and having 

a mild, pleasant taste; gills white, at length yellowish 

or buff -colored. This species is esculent. 

Other species are accounted edible, even one the 

peppery Lactarius, L. piperatus a pure-white variety, 

whose copious exudations of white milk 

Peppery w jjj a i mos t blister the lips, an acrid 

white = milk 

species property which is claimed by Curtis, 
Smith, and others to be dispelled in 
cooking, by which treatment it becomes delicious and 
wholesome. 

This species may reach a diameter of seven inches, 
its shape at first rounded, convex, then flat, concave, 
and finally funnel-shaped, as in many of the species. 
But its decidedly ardent tang in the raw state, as 
reminiscent from my own experience, warns me not 
to dwell too enthusiastically upon its merits in my 
limited selection of desirable esculent species. 



172 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



THE CHANTARELLE 
Cantharellus cibarius 

Bearing somewhat the shape of the Lactarius, but 
having its own distinguishing features, is the Chan- 
tarelle (Plate 19). 

The "Agarics," as already described on page 79, are 
distinguished by the feature of the gills, or thin lam- 
inated curtains the hymenium upon 
Fluted which the spores are produced, and 
gills from which they are shed beneath the 

mushroom. These gills vary in thick- 
ness and number in the various species, and in one 
genus are so short, thick, swollen, and branched as 
to Sfive rather the effect of turbid veins than mils, as 

o o o 

shown in the accom- 
sectional 
We occa- 
sionally come upon 
one of these mush- 
rooms in our walks, 
usually in the woods. 
When it first appears 
the cap is rounded, 
and the rim folded 
inward towards the 
stem ; but in mature 
specimens it assumes 
the flat or, later, the 
cup -shaped form shown in Plate 19. 

A fungus thus formed is a Chantarelle, or Can- 
tharellus, and is readily identified. Any specimen 



I 




panying 
drawing. 



SECTION OF CHANTARELLE 



(oanthatelluA cibazl 



ZIU6 



TLATE XIX 

THE CHANTARELLE 

Cantharellus cibarius 

Pileus : At first convex, later flat; three to five inches in di- 
ameter, with central hollow, and finally almost funnel 
form. Color, bright to deep yellow above and below. 

Gills : Shallow and fluted, resembling swollen veins, branch- 
ed, more or less interconnected and tapering off down the 
stem; color same as pileus. 

Stem: Solid, generally (often slightly) tapering towards base; 
paler than pileus or gills. 

Spores : Very pale yellow ochre in color; elliptical. 

Taste: Peppery and pungent in the raw state; mild and 
sweet after cooking. 

Odor : Suggesting ripe apricots or plums. 

Habitat: In woods, especially hemlocks, generally in clusters 
of two or three, or in lines or arcs of several individuals. 



PLATE XIX 






< an 

' \ 




CANTHARELLUS CIBARIUS. 



AGARICS 177 

having these features, and which possesses in addi- 
tion a fine, rich yellow color, is the C. cibarius of 
our plate, the esculent morsel so highly prized by 
epicures on the Continent, where to many perhaps 
somewhat indiscriminating gastronomists it forms 
one of the greatest delicacies among the entire list 
of edible fungi. The diameter of the mature speci- 
men may reach five inches, though three inches will 
be nearer the average size. The cap is frequently 
quite eccentric in its form, wavy- edged, 
Botanical or even folded upon itself in occasional 

characters individuals ; but the pure, deep yellow 
color " suggesting the yolk of an egg," 
and the swollen, vein -like hymenium, generally of 
a similar color, will be sufficient to distinguish it 
under any disguise of mere form. Another unique 
characteristic is its odor, which suggests ripe apri- 
cots or plums. The taste of the Chantarelle when 
raw is pungent and peppery, but this quality disap- 
pears in cooking. The spores are of a pale yellow - 
ochre color, and beneath the microscope are elliptical 
in shape. 

From the last of May until early November the 
Chantarelle may be found in our woods, with more or 
less frequency, singly or in clusters. According to 
Dr. Badham, an eminent authority on esculent fungi, 
" the best ways of dressing the Chan- 
stewed tarelle are to stew or mince it by itself, 

Chantarelle O r to combine it with meat or with 
other fungi. It requires long and gen- 
tle stewing to make it tender, but by soaking it in 
milk the night before, less cooking will be requisite." 



178 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But the recipes employed in Great Britain and 
upon the Continent to the glory of the Chantarelle 
would almost fill a fair-sized receipt book, and some 
of them are quite elaborate. A few of these are giv- 
en in a later chapter. After a trial of a number of 
them the writer is assured that the simple broiling or 
frying in butter or oil, with proper seasoning, and 
serving on toast, will prove a most acceptable sub- 
stitute. 

Another species of Chantarelle, which might possi- 
bly be confounded with the C. cibarius, is the Orange 
Chantarelle, C. aurantiacus, which is 
Another pronounced " scarcely esculent " by the 
species authorities. Its average size is much 

o 

smaller than the true Chantarelle, and 
its much deeper orange hue, and straighter, more 
regularly branched and crowded gills, will readily 
identify it, the gills of cibarius being thicker, and 
usually somewhat eccentric and netted. Like the 
foregoing, it assumes the funnel form with age, as 
indicated in the generic name, Cantharellus " a di- 
minutive drinking -cup." 






HE previous examples of mushrooms 
have all been included in the order 
of the Agarics, or "gill -bearing' 
fungi, the under spore-bearing sur- 
face of the cap having been disposed 
in the form of laminae or gills. We 
will now pass to the consideration of a class of 
mushrooms certain of which enjoy a wider reputa- 
tion as " toadstools " than any other species, a new 
botanical order of fungi the Polyporei in which 
the gills are replaced by pores or tubes polyporus 
(many pores). Conspicuous among the Polyporei 
are those great shelf -like woody growths so fre- 
quently to be seen on the trunks of trees, and popu- 
larly known as "punk," "tinder," and " touch - wood," 
and many of which increase in size year by year 
by accession of growth at the rim. A few of these 
lateral - stemmed species are edible during their 
young state, one or two of which are included in 
my subsequent pages. But the most notable group 
from the standpoint of esculence is the typical genus 
Boletus, containing a large number of species, and 
of which Plate 20 presents a conspicuous example. 
Especial attention should here be called to the nota- 



1 82 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ble monograph on the Boleti of the United States 

by State Botanist Professor Charles Peck, of Albany 

University, New York, which presents 

Works by detailed descriptions of one hundred 

Prof. Peck and eight indigenous species. Other 

contributions to mycological literature 

by this distinguished American authority are noted 

in my bibliographical list at the close of the volume. 

THE BOLETI 

Tube mushrooms 

The structure of these mushrooms is clearly shown 
in Plate 38, in my chapter on "Spore-prints," the 
hymenium being here spread upon the honey-combed 
pore surfaces, and shedding its spores from the tubes. 
Each of these tubes is distinct and may be separated 
from the mass. 

The ideal form as shown in Plate 20 is perfectly 
symmetrical, in which condition the pores would nat- 
urally be perpendicular. But this perfection seldom 
prevails, and we continually find the specimens more 
or less eccentric in shape, especially where they are 
crowded or have met with obstruction in growth. 
But in any case, no matter what the angle or 
distortion of growth during development, the tubes 
are always adjusted to the perpendicular, or in mal- 
formed individuals as nearly so as the conditions 
will permit, as shown in the section on next page. 

The Boleti are in general a salubrious group. 
Certain species have long been accredited as being 
poisonous, and others excluded from the feast as "sus- 
picious." The early authorities caution us to avoid 



POLYPOREI 



183 



all Boleti having any shade of red on the spore-bear- 
ing surface beneath, even as it was originally claimed 
that all red-capped toadstools were poisonous. But 
from the writer's own individual experiments, rein- 
forced by the experience of others, he is beginning 
to be persuaded that the Boletus as a genus has been 




SECTION OF BOLETUS SHOWING PERPENDICULAR TUBES 

maligned. Many species accredited as poisonous he 
has eaten repeatedly without the slightest deleterious 
consequences, including the crimson Boletus, B. al- 
veolatus (Plate 24, fig. 2), with its red spore surface, 
and the B. subtomentosus (Plate 22, fig. i), whose yel- 
lowish flesh, like the species just mentioned, changes 
quickly to blue upon fracture, a chemical feature 
which has long stamped both species as dangerous. 



1 84 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It is interesting to note that the ban is gradually 
being lifted from the Boleti by mycophagists of 
distinction, largely through their own experiments. 
Thus I note that Mr. Mcllvaine, who has made a 
close study of esculent fungi, in a recent article 
claims that " all the Boleti are harmless, though 
some are too bitter to eat' 1 ; and Mr. Palmer, in his 
admirable portfolio of esculent fungi, 
Maligned includes among his edible species one 
species o f those whose flesh " changes color on 
fracture," and which has hitherto been 
proscribed as " off color." Of course, this food se- 
lection would obviously apply only to species of 
inviting attributes, possessing pleasant odor, agree- 
able taste, and delicate fibre. The selection com- 
prised in this volume is confined to a few varieties of 
established good repute. As to the rest if only on 
the consideration of idiosyncrasy it is wiser to urge 
extreme caution on the lines laid down on page 34. 

The Boletus, like all other mushrooms, passes 
through a variety of forms from its birth to maturity, 
at first being almost round, then con- 
Changes ye w ith the spore surface nearly flat, 

of form 

in growth horizontal, the profile outline finally 
almost equally cushion-like on both up- 
per and lower surfaces, or the upper surface absolutely 
flat. Mere outline drawings of a number of Boleti 
would be almost identical. The form alone, there- 
fore, is of minor importance in their identification. 
Among those more readily recognized by their color 
and structural features, may be classed the following 
common species: 



cJootetu6 eduliti 



TLATE XX 

EDIBLE BOLETUS 

Boletus edulis 

Pileus: Cushion-like; moist; variable in color, light brown 
to darker brownish red; surface smooth but dull; dimen- 
sions at full expansion, three to six or eight inches. 

Tube surface (A magnified) : Whitish in very young spec- 
imens, at length becoming yellow and yellowish green. 
Pore openings, angled. 

Spores : Ochre-colored. 

Stem : Stout ; often disproportionately elongated. Pale 
brown, generally with a fine raised net-work of pink 
lines near junction of cap. 

Flesh : White or yellowish, not changing color on fracture. 

Taste: Agreeable and nutty, especially when young. 

Habitat: Woods, especially during July and August; com- 
mon. 



PLATE XX 




,>.JV V ,- 







BOLETUS EDULIS. 



POLYPOREI 189 

EDIBLE TUBE MUSHROOM 
Boletus edulis 

The most prominent member of the Boleti is the 

typical species whose portrait I have given on Plate 

20, " in vain calling himself ' edulis', where there were 

none to believe him." But in spite of this remark of 

Dr. Badham, which had reference es- 

A famous pecially to his native country, England, 

delicacy this funsais had lonor been a favorite 

O O 

article of food among a large class of 
the more lowly Europeans, to say nothing of the lux- 
urious epicures of the continent. 

Boletus edulis is to be found singly or in groups, 
usually in the woods. Its average diameter is per- 
haps four or five inches, though specimens are occa- 
sionally found of double these dimensions. A letter 
to the writer from a correspondent in the Rocky 
Mountains describes specimens measuring fifteen 
inches in diameter having been found there. 

The cushion - like cap is more or less convex, ac- 
cording to age, of a soft brownish or drab color 

somewhat resembling kid, and with 

Specific velvety softness to the touch. The 

characters under surface or hymenium is thickly 

beset, honey -combed with minute ver- 
tical pores, which will leave a pretty account of them- 
selves upon a piece of white paper laid beneath 
them and protected from the least draught, a proc- 
ess by which we may always obtain a deposit of 
the ochre-tinted spores, as is further described in 
a later chapter. 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

In Boletus edulis this pore surface is white in 
young specimens, later yellow, finally becoming 
bright olive - green ; flesh white or creamy, un- 
changeable on fracture. Stem paler than cap, thick, 
swollen at base, often malformed and elongated, es- 
pecially when from a cluster, generally more or less 
covered with vertical raised ridges, which become 
somewhat netted together and pinkish as they ap- 
proach the cap. The taste is sweet, and in the very 
young specimen, which is brittle, quite suggestive of 
raw chestnut. 

Any Boletus answering this description may be 
eaten without fear, assuming, of course, that its sub- 
stance is free from any taint of disso- 
insects lution and traces of insect contamina- 
and decay tion. Both of these conditions are too 
apt to prevail in the mature specimens, 
and all Boleti are more safely employed for food in 
their young crisp stage, or at least before their full 
expansion. In their maturity, moreover, they often 
prove too mucilaginous in consistency to be pleasant 
to the average partaker, especially the novice. 

In preparing them for the table, all that is neces- 
sary is to cut off the stems, which are apt to be 
tough and fibrous, and to wipe the pel- 
Preparation licle of the cap perfectly clean, or, if 
for table preferred, to pare the pileus with a very 
sharp knife. It is recommended by 
some that the entire mass of the pore section be re- 
moved. In a mature specimen this would reduce 
the bulk of the mushroom by half, and, moreover, 
deprive the remainder of the full flavor of the fun- 



dcaez 



h 



TLATE XXI 

ROUGH-STEMMED BOLETUS 

Boletus scaber 

Pileus: Rounded convex; diameter two to five inches; sur- 
face occasionally smooth and viscid when moist; color 
usually brownish red, but varying from orange brick red 
or even black in certain varieties to yellow or whitish. 

Tube surface: Rounded, cushion-like; whitish at first, be- 
coming dingy; tube openings small and round, and rather 
long as seen in section. 

Spores: Reddish brown. 

Stem : Solid, dingy white, tapering slightly above, more or 
less thickly beset with brownish, fibrous, dot-like scales, 
this being the most pronounced botanical character for 
identification. 

Flesh : White or dingy in certain varieties, often changing to 
blue, brown, pinkish, or black where wounded. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant. 

Habitat: A common and widely distributed species, with 
many variations of color. Found in woods and shaded 
waste-places. 

Season: July-October. 



PLATE XXI 




' 



.- 










i 








BOLETUS SCABER. 



POLYPOREI 195 

gus. I have not found it necessary, and it is cer- 
tainly needless in a young and tender specimen. 

ROUGH -STEMMED BOLETUS 
Boletus scaber 

This is a very common mushroom in our woods 
all through the summer and autumn, in reasonably 
moist weather. It is figured in Plate 21. The 
cap of an average specimen expands four inches or 
more, is of a brown or brownish buff color, and vis- 
cid when moist. The pore -surface is dingy white, 
the tube orifices being quite minute and round not 
so conspicuously angular or honey -combed as in 
other species and with occasional reddish stains, 
presumably a deposit from the floating spores, 
which are tawny reddish. The flesh is dirty white, 
the stem solid, contracting upwards, and rough with 
fibrous brownish scaly points whence the name 
"scaber" often arranged somewhat in vertical lines. 
Epicures fail to agree as to the esculent qualities of 
this mushroom. It is certainly inferior to the cdulis. 

THE YELLOW- CRACKED BOLETUS 

Boletus subtomentosus 

The general contour of the present species--./?. 
subtomentosus (Plate 22, fig. i) resembles the fore- 
going, but it is easily distinguished by 
specific the color of its cap and tube surface, 
qualities the pileus being usually olive, olive- 
brown, or red of various shades ; the 
color, however, does not extend to the flesh beneath 
the peeled cuticle, as in B. chrysenteron, Fig. 2. The 



IT 



196 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

surface is soft and dry subtomentous to the touch. 
Cracks in the cap become yellow, on which account 
this species is called the "yellow-cracked Boletus," 
in contradistinction to the red -cracked B. chrysen- 
teron. Its most important distinction, however, is of 
a chemical nature. 

The stem is stout, unequal, firm, yellowish, and 
more or less ribbed, occasionally tinted, minutely 
dotted, or faintly striped with the color of the cap. 
The taste of the flesh is sweet and agreeable. 
Palmer compares it to the flavor of walnuts. The 
tube surface is yellow or yellowish green, 
The blue and the tiibcs and yellowish flesh of cap 
stain an d stern titrn a ricJi peacock -blue im- 
mediately on fracture, becoming deeper 
moment by moment until the entire exposed portion 
becomes leaden especially noticeable in mature 
specimens. The pore surface shows a similar blue 
stain whenever bruised. The tubes are angular- 
sided instead of round, and much larger than in the 
B. edulis ; spores ochre colored. 

This blue stain was formerly, and is even now, 

deemed sufficient with many mycophagists to place 

this mushroom on the black-list, but is believed by 

Mr. Palmer and Mr. Mcllvaine to be unwarranted 

as a stigma, assuming that fresh speci- 

An mens are employed. The B. subtomen- 

unwarranted . 

stigma tosus is also among the eleven edible 

Boleti in the list of Dr. Curtis, given 

on a previous page, and the present author has 

habitually eaten the species with enjoyment and 

without unpleasant results. Fresh young specimens 



cJootetuj 



cktydentewn 



TLATE XXII 

YELLOW CRACKED BOLETUS 

1. Boletus subtomentosus 

Pileus: Diameter three to six inches. Color, varying in dif- 
ferent individuals, yellowish brown, olive, or subdued tan 
color; epidermis soft and dry, with a fine pubescence. 
Cracks in surface become yellow. 

Flesh : Creamy white in mature specimens, changing to blue, 
and at length leaden on fracture. 

Tube surface: Yellow or yellowish green, becoming bluish 
when bruised; opening of tubes large and angled. 

Stem: Stout; yellowish; minutely roughened with scurfy 
dots, or faintly striped with brown. 

Spores: Brownish ochre. 

Taste : Sweet and agreeable. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season : Summer and autumn. 

GOLDEN-FLESH BOLETUS 

2. Boletus chrysenteron 

Pileus: Diameter two to four inches; convex, becoming 
more flattened ; soft to the touch, varying from light yel- 
lowish brown to bright brick red ; more or less fissured 
with red cracks and clincks. 

Flesh : Rich, bright yellow, red immediately beneath the 
cuticle. 

Tube surface : Olive-yellow, becoming bluish where bruised ; 
tube openings rather large, angled, and unequal in size. 

Stem: Generally stout and straight; yellowish, and more or 
less streaked or spotted with the color of the cap. 

Spores : Light brown. 

Habitat: Woods and copses. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



CD 

O 

i 
rn 

H 
C 



rn 

z 

O 

cn 
c 
en 



n 

I 

5 
w 

rn 

z 

H 
rn 
^ 
O 




m 

X 
X 



POLYPOREI 2O I 

with the least change of color would perhaps be the 
wiser choice for the novice. 

Another species having this peculiar property of 
" turning blue " even in a more marked degree, and 
named, in consequence, the B. cyanescens, though 
always heretofore considered poisonous, is now pro- 
nounced by certain prominent mycoph- 
Caution agists to be not only harmless but es- 
advisabie culent. It is still advisable, however, 
to caution moderation in its use as 
food, if only on the ground of idiosyncrasy. The 
spores of this species are white, which, with the more 
minute tube openings, form a sufficient discrimina- 
tion from siibtomcntosus. The spores should be ob- 
tained by a deposit on black or dark-colored paper. 
The flesh is white also. Other blue -stain species, 
such as B. alveolatus (Plate 24), are still considered 
with suspicion, presumably groundless. 

YELLOW-FLESHED BOLETUS 

Boletus chrysenteron 

Among the toadstools which tradition would sure- 
ly brand as poisonous on account of " bright color " is 
the common species whose name heads this para- 
graph, and which is illustrated in Plate 22, fig. 2. In 
its various shapes it suggests the preceding varieties. 
Its cap, however, is brownish red, often bright brick 
red. Flesh almost lemon -yellow, stained red just be- 
neatJi the cuticle, and not noticeably changeable on 
fracture. Tube surface yellowish green, turning blue 
or bluish green when bruised. Spores light brown. 
Tubes rather large, angular, and unequal in shape of 



202 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

aperture. Stem yellow, often brightly colored with 
the red of the cap. Chance cracks in its surface be- 
come red, whence the common name of the " Red- 
cracked Boletus." A species frequent in woods 
throughout the summer and autumn, and edible. 

In its brightly colored cap it might possibly be 
superficially confounded with the suspicious Boletus 
alveolatus of Plate 24. But the latter species is ea- 
sily distinguished by its rose-colored spores and red 
pore surface. 

CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 

Strobilomyces strobilaceus 

Another allied species, not especially famous for its 
esculent qualities, but which is, nevertheless, not to be 
despised, is here introduced on account of its espe- 
cially pronounced character (Plate 23) the cone-like 
Boletus, or, more properly, Strobilomyces. It is of a 
brownish gray color, its shaggy surface more or less 
studded with deep brown or black wool- 
Botanical ly points, each at the centre of a scale- 
characters like segment. The tubes beneath are 

O 

covered by the veil in the younger 
specimens, but this at length breaks, leaving ragged 
fragments hanging from the rim of the pileus. The 
pore surface thus exposed is at first a grayish white, 
ultimately becoming brown. The substance of the 
funsfus turns red when broken or cut. 

*_> 

This very striking mushroom is found in woods, 
especially under evergreens. It frequently attains a 
diameter of four inches. Its spores are a deep 
brown, and a specimen selected at the stage when the 



dtwbilaceud 



TLATE XXIII 

THE CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 

Strobilomyees strobilaeeus 

Pileus: From two to four inches in diameter, covered with 
a soft gray wool drawn into regular cone -like points 
tipped with dark brown. 
Flesh grayish white, turning red when bruised. 

Pore surface : Grayish white in young specimen, and then 
usually covered with the veil; dark brown or almost 
black at maturity. Plate 38 shows a spore-print of this 
species. 

Spores : Very dark brown. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant. 

Odor: Sweet and mild. 

Habitat: Woods; singly or in small clusters. 



PLATE XXIII 








''< 




m 





\f 



. 




STROBILOMYCES STROBILACEUS. 



POLYPOREI 207 

under surface is flat will yield a most beautiful spore 
print if laid upon white paper and protected from the 
atmosphere, as described in a later chapter. 

A reproduction of one of these prints is shown in 
Plate 38, the white reticulation representing the con- 
tact of the tube orifices with the paper, 
Black each tube depositing its dot composed 
spore=prints of spores, the depth of color increasing 
in proportion to the time involved in 
the deposit. A single mushroom will yield a half- 
dozen or more prints. This fungus dries readily, 
and may be kept indefinitely. 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 
Boletus feUeus B. alveolatus 

In Plate 24 are shown two examples of the Boleti 
which have commonly been accounted poisonous 
B. felleus and B. alveolatus and, in the absence of 
absolutely satisfactory assurance to the contrary, it is 
safer from our present point of view to consider them 

still as suspicious and to give them a 

Maligned wide berth. There can be no doubt 

species but that the popular condemnation of 

the Boleti has been altogether too 
sweeping. The gradual accession of many question- 
able species to the edible list of Messrs. Mcllvaine 
and Palmer and other daring mycophagists is a 
sufficient attestation of this fact. Thus snbtomento- 
sns and cyanescens, already described, always hereto- 
fore branded as reprobates, are now redeemed from 
obloquy, and even the universal ill -repute of the B. 
satanas, with its pale pileus and blood -red pores, 



208 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

has not frightened the indefatigable Captain Me II- 

vaine from a personal challenge and encounter with 

this lurid specimen, with the result that 

A paring ^ Q formidable " Satanas " has proved 

pioneer 1-1 r 

mycophagist anything but deserving 01 its name 
not half so lurid as it has been paint- 
ed ; indeed, it has been even pronounced " the best 
of them all." Of course there's no telling to what 
extent the considerations of contrast, through sur- 
prise and the consequent demoralization on the con- 
tingents of the personal equation, may have influ- 
enced the captain's discrimination, but it certainly 
would appear, to put it negatively, that even the ill- 
favored world -renowned B. satanas has apparently 
been freed from aspersion as an enemy of mankind. 

But it is well for the amateur to avoid these notori- 
ous species absolutely until their edibility becomes 
universally accepted by the " professionals." 

The Boletus felleus (Plate 24, fig. i) is a very com- 
mon species. The pinkish substance of this Boletus 
is so extremely bitter when raw as to 

The bitter make it sufficiently repellent as food. 
Boletus The color of its smooth cap varies from 
creamy yellow to reddish brown. Sub- 
stance white in young specimens, flesh color or pink- 
ish in older individuals. Tube surface white at first, 
becoming pinkish. Opening of tubes, angled. Stem 
usually more or less netted with raised lines towards 
cap. Spores pinkish or " flesh colored." Common 
in rich soil in woods. 

Boletus alveolatns. Pileus smooth and polished, 
usually rich crimson or maroon, sometimes varied 



c/ooletu6 alveolatud 



felleu.) 



TLATE XXIV 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 

Alveolate Boletus Boletus alveolatus 

Pileus: Smooth, polished; bright, deep crimson or maroon, 
occasionally mottled or marbled with yellowish; three to 
six inches in diameter. 

Flesh: Firm and solid in substance; pale greenish or yellow- 
ish white, changing blue in fracture or where bruised. 

Tubes: Tube -surface reaching the stem proper; undulate 
with uneven hollows; maroon, the tubes in section being 
yellow beyond their dark red mouths. 

Spores: Yellowish brown. 

Stem : Usually disproportionately long, covered with depres- 
sions or oblong pitted indentations, with intermediate 
coarse network of raised ridges; red and yellow. 

Habitat: Woods; quite common. 

Bitter Boletus Boletus felleus 

Pileus : At first firm in substance, becoming soft and cushion- 
like; smooth, without polish, varying in color from pale 
ochre to yellowish or reddish brown; diameter three to 
nine inches. 

Flesh: White on immediate section, generally changing to 
slight pinkish or flesh color in fracture. 

Tubes : Tube-surface rounded upward as it reaches stem ; 
white at first, becoming dull pinkish with age, or upon 
being bruised. 

Spores : Flesh colored or dull pink. 

Stem : Usually quite stout, nearly as smooth as the cap, and 
somewhat lighter in color; more or less ridged with coarse 
reticulations, occasionally covered with them to its thick- 
ened base. 

Taste: Bitter. 

Habitat: Rich woods and copses, often about decaying" 
trunks. 



PLATE XXIV 




SUSPICIOUS BOLETI. 

BOLETUS ALVEOLATUS. 



B. FELLEUS. 



POLYPOREI 213 

with paler yellowish tints. Substance very solid, 
chansons: to blue on fracture or bruise. Tube sur- 

O O 

face deep dull crimson or maroon, this 
The crimson color not extending the full length of 
Boletus the pores, which are yellow a short dis- 
tance above their mouths. The stem 
is quite stout and tall for the size of the cap as 
compared with other Boleti. It is mottled in yellow 
and bright red or crimson, and conspicuously meshed 
with a net-work of firm ridges. The spores are yel- 
lowish brown. A conspicuous and easily identified 
species. 

THE VEGETABLE BEEFSTEAK 

Fistuliiia hepatica 

Our next member of the Polyporus order, or tube- 
bearing fungi, is a unique member of the fun- 
gus tribe, and cannot be mistaken for any other 
species. An example of this species is shown in 
Plate 25, the beefsteak mushroom Fistnlina he- 
patica. The specimen from which my drawing was 
made was found growing at the foot of a chestnut- 
tree, and was about nine inches across 
Botanical by about two in greatest thickness. Its 
characters upper surface was dark meaty red or 
liver colored, somewhat wet, or viscid 
and clammy, and its taste slightly acid. The under 
tube surface was yellowish white, and, as the section 
will show, was proportionately thin the pores being 
about one-eighth of an inch in length. The solid 

O O 

red substance much resembled meat, and in sections 
was streaked with darker lines of red, as indicated in 
plate, somewhat suggesting a section of beet-root. 



214 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Though not common in my vicinity, I neverthe- 
less succeed in obtaining a few specimens during 
the season. It varies greatly in size and shape. 
M. C. Cooke, in his admirable "plain and easy" 
account of British fungi, says of it : " When old it 
affords an excellent gravy, and when 
Savory young, if sliced and grilled, would pass 
qualities for a good beefsteak. Specimens are 
now and then met with that would fur- 
nish four or five men with a good dinner, and they 
have been collected weighing as much as thirty 
pounds. The liver, or paler pinkish meaty color, 
clammy viscidity, and streaky section are sufficient 
guides in the recognition of this species." 

It is a highly prized article of diet on the Continent 
where the arts of the chef are ingeniously employed 
in endless recipes for its savory prep- 
Culinary aration, often, it would seem, with the 
preparation main object of obliterating as far as 
possible all trace of the delicate flavor 
of the mushroom per se. 

If the reader's experience correspond with the 
writer's in his mycological experiments " a la mode" 
he will gladly fall back to the plain plebeian method 
of simply broiling over the coals, or frying or roast- 
ing in the pan, with the least possible seasoning of 
pepper, salt, and butter, relying upon his mushroom 
to furnish the predominant zest and flavor. 

Other hints for serving this fungus are given in a 
later chapter. Besides the common name of " beef- 
steak mushroom," it is also known on the Continent 
as the "oak tongue," and "chestnut tongue." 



I ,_^ >. i V ) fc-V ' ' \-* \^ * I N-f ' \f 1 * ^ * * L v ' * -A ._ ' 



T>LATE XXV 

THE BEEFSTEAK MUSHROOM 

Fistulina hepatica 

Pileus: Diameter, average specimen, about six inches, occa- 
sionally twice or three times this size; color varying from 
pinkish to dark meaty red; surface roughened with mi- 
nute papilke; soft and moist. 

Flesh: Light red, streaked with darker red; tender and juicy 
in young specimens; juice light red. 

Tube surface : Creamy in color ; tubes distinct from each 
other, crowded, very short, as shown in section opposite. 

Stem : Short or obsolete, growing at the side. 

Taste: Slightly acid. 

Habitat : On the stumps and trunks of oak and chestnut trees. 

Season: July-September. 




5 

m 



X 
X 



POLYl'OREI 



219 



THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 

Polyporus stdphurcus 

Probably the most conspicuous member of our na- 
tive polyporei remains to be considered among the 
esculents, though until recently it was included in the 
black list, Dr. Curtis, of North Carolina, I believe, 
having first demonstrated its edibility, though pro- 
nouncing it merely " tolerable." 

The brilliancy of its sulphur- yellow and orange- 
salmon colors, in association with its large size, ren- 
ders it a most conspicuous object, especially from its 






.:,;-> ? 




habit of growing in dense clusters, often a number 
of such clusters in close contiguity upon a decay- 
ing stump or prostrate log, frequently so numerous 
and so crowded as to completely conceal the bark 



12 



22O 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



beneath, as shown in the accompanying figure, or 
completely covering a space of several square feet. 
There lies before me even as I write a fragment 

O 

of a single cluster which I plucked yesterday from the 
trunk of an apparently healthy red -oak near my stu- 
dio, the remainder of the clump having been enjoyed 
as a special course in my dinner of last evening. In 
Plate 26 I present a portrait of this specimen, the 
well-named Sulphur Polyporus Polyporus snlphu- 
reus. It may be found frequently from July till 
frost upon its favorite habitat of old trunk, stump, log 

water-trough, or fence- 
post, usually upon wood 
in the early stages of 
decay. A single clus- 
ter will often measure a 
foot in diameter through 

O 

its very solid mass of 
thickened pulpy branch- 
es, its early and escu- 
lent stage being thus 
compact with the sub- 
divisions ascending 

O 

from their common 

thick stem, the mass somewhat suggesting a cauli- 
flower in shape, as shown in the illustration above. 

The general color at this tender "stage is pure sul- 
phur-yellow, this being the ultimate loiver or spore 
surface now exposed by its upright position. The 
true upper surface or cap of the later eccentrically 
branched fungus is of a bright orange -salmon color, 
and is mostly concealed by the crowded growth. 







A YOUNG SPECIMEN 



POLYPOREI 221 

The specimen above alluded to would have weigh- 
ed about two pounds, and this central mass was so 
crowded as to afford scarcely a glimpse of the pink- 
ish-orange pileus surface. Upon showing my speci- 
men to a friend, I was informed that a certain log 
by the roadside about two miles distant was covered 
with this same kind of fungus, which 
A voice seemed to be spreading all over the 

in the 

wilderness ground. Doubtless ten or twenty 

pounds of good nourishing food was 

thus going begging by the way -side, even in sight 

of a rural homestead, whose lord and master finds 

the butcher's bill a serious drain upon his resources. 

My plate shows a more open cluster of the fungus 
in its earlier stages, the only time when it is fit for 
food. In this condition it is tender, succulent, and 
juicy. In a few days the lobed fringes or fan -like 
divisions have lowered and spread out as widely as 
their crowded condition will permit, assuming the 
horizontal or even drooping position seen at C, and 
at D in the plate, as viewed from above. The pileus 
now being exposed, the fungus presents a deep 
orange -red or salmon color to the beholder, its sul- 
phurous -hued pore surface being turned beneath. 
Its texture at this adult stage is tough, fibrous, and 
almost woody, especially as it approaches the stem, 
and no one would think of eating it. 

The young specimen, however, is quite delicious 
and wholesome, and, considering that a single cluster 
will afford a dinner for a large family, its importance 
as a food product, especially to the farmer or peasant 
who finds economy a necessity, is thus manifest. 



222 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Tasted at the tip, it yields for the first moment of 
mastication an acid flavor recalling that of the Fistu- 
lina Iiepatica. This is followed by a sweet, slightly 
mucilaginous savor, which, in the realization that the 
species is wholesome, will at once prove an invitation 
to further experiment with the fungus as food. 

The texture of the young mushroom will be found 

to vary in its different parts, extremely tender at the 

thickened tuberculated tips, becoming 

Texture fibrous as the stem is approached, and 

and quality increasing in toughness, in fracture 
suggesting wood in appearance (see A, 
Plate 26), and unless the specimen is very young 
this portion will have to be excluded from the diet. 
Excepting this precaution it needs no preparation 
for the table, assuming, of course, that the substance 
is free from grubs, which will presumably be the 
case, as I have never seen this fungus thus infested 
except in its more advanced woody growth. 

I have not as yet satisfied myself as to the best 
methods of cooking this polyporus. Fried in butter 
it has a tendency to become slightly tough in consist- 
ency, in its white stringy fibre as well as in taste 
closely suggesting the " white meat ' of chicken. 
It lends itself well to a stew or ragout, 
Methods and might, perhaps, to a curry, the 

of cooking substance bein^ cut or broken in small 

O 

pieces and treated after the manner 
of meat under similar recipes. Following the hints 
contained in our last chapter, many methods of its 
culinary treatment will suggest themselves. 

The freely expanded specimen of this species is 



6ulphuzeu6 



TLATE XX I/I 

THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 

Polyporus sulphureus 

In the mature specimen the growth is horizontal, spreading 
fan-like from stem, undulating with radiating flutings. 
Upper surface salmon orange or orange red, the edge 
being smooth and unevenly thickened with nodule -like 
prominences. In young specimen ascending, under yel- 
low surface outwardly exposed. 

Pore Surface : Bright sulphur yellow; pores very minute. 

Spores : Dingy white. 

Stem : Very short; a mere close attachment for the spreading 
growth. 

Taste : Slightly acid and mucilaginous when raw; after cook- 
ing somewhat suggesting white meat of chicken. 

Odor : Suggesting A. campestris. 

Habitat : On tree trunks, particularly oaks, often growing in 
very large clusters. 

A. Section of fungus showing fibre. 
C. and D. Matured specimen. 



PLATE XXVI 




POLYPORUS SULPHUREUS. 



POLYPOREI 227 

full of beauty, in its wavy fan-like form and flowing 
lines and flutings presenting a suggestive decora- 
tive theme, whether in the branches of 
painting, sculpture, or the plastic arts. 

ornamental * 

attributes 1 he pores upon its sulphurous surrace 
are so minute as to be scarcely visi- 
ble, but they shed a copious quantity of whitish 
spores. The pileus of the dried specimen is often 
more or less frosted with minute white crystals- 
binoxalate of potash --and the spore surface dulls 
to the color of buckskin. 

Another remarkable feature about this fungus, if 
report be true, is its visibility by night, not merely 
from its pale yellow hue, but by an act- 
Luminous ual flood of bluish luminous phospho- 
by night rescent light, the environment of its 
haunt in the woods sometimes being 
lighted up by the effulgence from its ample mass of 
growth, a resource not uncommon among the fungi, 
and popularly known under the name of " foxfire." 
This phenomenon is frequently observable in woods 
at night, following rainy weather. An old stump 
or prostrate log will appear streaked with lines of 
brilliant light. If we approach and detach the loos- 
ened bark, its back and the decayed surface of the 
log thus exposed will prove ablaze in phosphores- 
cence, whose presence had scarcely been suspected 
but for the chance fissures which revealed the tell- 
tale streaks. I recall from my boyhood experience 
one such midnight episode as this in which, from 
the peculiar outline of the fallen trunk and the coin- 
cident circumstance of two approximate dots of brill- 



228 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



iant light suggesting the eyes of a huge puma or 
tiger, I stood spell -bound with momentary fear, until 
I realized that the apparition was only a bugaboo 
after all. Approaching in the darkness, I soon laid 
hold of the rough head of the monster, and with a 
strong pull at the mass of bark of which it was com- 
posed, laid bare several square feet of blazing phos- 
phorescence whose only hint had gleamed through 
those two imaginary eyes, which proved to be holes 
which had disclosed the hidden luminous fungus. 
One authority describes a single mass of this phos- 
phorescence as extending the entire length of a pros- 
trate trunk thirty feet long. 

Hawthorne records having made orood use of fox- 

o o 

fire upon one occasion when, left in the lurch at 
night by a canal-boat, he procured a phosphorescent 
flambeau which effectually lighted his path for sev- 
eral miles through the otherwise impassable woods. 






HE species of fungi thus far described 
have been confined to the two great 
orders of the Agarics and the Polyporei, 
which include the large majority of our 
edible mushrooms and toadstools. 

The remainder of my selection in the 
present chapter comprises scattered ex- 
amples from four other orders : Hydnei (Spine-bear- 
ers), Clavariei (Coral-fungi), and the Trichogastres 
(Puff-balls), all belonging to the first great division 
of the Sporifera. The remaining two species consid- 
ered Morel and Helvella, of the order Elvellacei- 
are my only representatives of the second grand co- 
hort of the Sporidiifera, whose botanical characters 
are described on page 77. 

In our previous examples the hymenium or spore- 
bearing surface has been disposed upon " gills," as in 
the Agarics, and on " tubes " in the Polypores. In the 
Hydnei group, which we will first consider, this dis- 
seminating surface is spread over spines or teeth. 

The examples selected from this order are both in 
the typical genus Hydnum; and the object of this 



232 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



present book on fungi being especially the presenta- 
tion of only such varieties as are conspicuously self- 
placarded by some distinctive marks for identification, 
these delicious spine-bearing or "hedgehog" mush- 
rooms should of course be included a genus which 




SECTION OF A HYDNUM 



cannot be mistaken for any other, and which is in- 
stantly recognized by its own peculiar character, al- 
ready mentioned, its spore surface being beset with 
soft, drooping spines instead of pores or gills. There 
are more than a score of species. The two more or 
less common with us are the Hydnum repandum, in 
outline suggesting an ordinary mushroom, and of 







zepanoum 



3t 



TLATE XX VII 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 

Hydnum repandum 

Pileus: Diameter two to five inches, generally irregular, with 
the stem off centre. Color varying from pale buff, the 
typical hue, to a distinct bricky red. 

Spines: Beneath the cap, one-quarter to one-third inch in 
length; soft, creamy in tint, becoming darker in old spec- 
imens. 

Flesh: Creamy white, solid. 

Stem: Often set eccentrically into the cap; proportionately 
thick and short. 

Taste : Slightly aromatic. 

Habitat: Woods or shaded places in rich soil, often in clus- 
ters. 

Season : Summer and autumn. 



PLATE XXVII 








rjfe 





4; 



18iP & 



yr/'WWj 

$*#, 






'iffi 

I,' 



31 




^ 



^5 

a m&'*th 

"/.'"^ii: - ^^^^^<a|E'^'' v Ar'jK^ *^~1* S^ 

^^^^wi^^J^W " 

Ki - M *lV( ^T^f^v^ 2^ f( TM\o> 

"'-" <?: 1^" 
^*^- 






u- 




I 




V - 


u 



HYDNUM REPANDUM. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 237 

which the above cut represents a section, and the H. 
caput-medusa, or Medusa- head Hydnum. None of 
the group is accounted poisonous, though some of 
them are too tough to be acceptable as food. 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 
Hydnum rcpandiim 

In this species, figured on Plate 27, bearing some- 
what the contour of an Agaric, the spines are all 
confined to the lower surface of the expanded cap. 
The general color of the upper surface is buff, gen- 
erally very pale, occasionally almost white. The 
spines being of similar hue, this color 

Characters and the smoothness of texture have 
and qualities suggested the common popular English 
name of " doeskin mushroom." The 
flesh is firm and white or creamy, turning brownish 
when bruised. Its sweet but slightly pungent or 
peppery taste when raw disappears in cooking. It 
is quite frequent in our woods, and if fresh and free 
from insects may be eaten without the slightest hesi- 
tation. It is a species highly favored on the Conti- 
nent, where the surplus yield is habitually dried and 
kept for winter use. The hot flavor of the raw 
Hydnum was formerly sufficient to brand it as poi- 
sonous, Roques, I believe, having been the first to 
demonstrate its edibility, and Dr. Badham to dis- 
tinguish its mimetic flavor " Hydna as good as oys- 
ters, which they somewhat resemble in taste." 

Cooke and Berkeley describe a variety of this mush- 
room having a distinctly reddish pileus H. rufescens 
and Prof. Charles Peck gives the species quite a 



238 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

range in its color gamut. " Its color may be pale buff, 

rusty yellow, pale red, or sienna color." The " pale 

buff " will doubtless be found to be the 

Variations most common. In the variety rufcscens 

and . . i i r 

varieties the size is smaller and the form more 
symmetrical, but the general shape and 
fringe-toothed spore surface are sufficient to identify 
the typical species under any disguise of color. 

The cap is occasionally quite symmetrical, suggest- 
ing the outline of a Boletus in profile, but more com- 
monly is irregular and eccentric, with stem attached 
towards its side, as indicated in section on previous 
page. It may reach the diameter of five inches in 
a fine specimen. 

Its favorite haunt is the open woods, where it may 
be seen from the last of June until September, either 
singly or in clusters, lifting the dried leaves from 
their bed, or occasionally barely revealed beneath 
them. 

But the most important and savory of the entire 
group of Hydnei is the species following: 

THE MEDUSA HYDNUM 
H. caput-medusce 

While driving through the White Mountain Notch, 
many years ago, I chanced upon a mass of cream- 
colored, fringy fungus growing upon a fallen beech- 
log by the side of the road. The fungus was then 
entirely new to me, and I lost no time in making 
a sketch of it, with notes. The growth covered a 
space possibly eighteen inches wide by eight in height, 
and I estimated it would weigh fully five pounds, its 



p ^ ^ 

oiiomun caput - meouAce 

cJ I 




TLATE XX VIII 

THE MEDUSA MUSHROOM 

Hydnum eaput-medusse 

Spines: The long, soft spines cover the entire exposed por- 
tion of the fungus, which is disposed in fleshy branching 
divisions, each terminating in a "crown" of shorter, 
drooping teeth. The color is pale buff or dark creamy. 

Stem: Short, concealed beneath the growth. 

Taste : Sweet and aromatic, slightly pungent. 

Habitat: Trunks of trees, especially beech. 

Season: July to October. 



IE 
D 
C 

n 

T) 

C 
H 

> 

rn 

D 

C 

rn 




* 






5 

rn 







<t / : W 

. *~ "'.A : 






PLATE XXIX.-HYDNUM CAPUT-MEDUS/E 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 245 

most marked feature being the dense growth of 
drooping spines. In my limited knowledge of edible 
fungi at the time, I cautiously left the specimen in 
the woods, afterwards to learn from 
A dinner Dr. Harkness, the mycologist, that I 
thrown away had " thrown away five pounds of the 
most delicious fungus meat known to 
the epicure." I have since found minor specimens 
many times, and can readily understand the enthu- 
siastic encomiums of my connoisseur friend as to its 
esculent qualities. 

This species (Plate 28) cannot be confounded with 

any other; it is of a dark creamy color, and usually 

grows sidewise upon dead beech wood 

Haunt and (Plate 29), sometimes in great profu- 

description sion, especially in the summer. The 

soft spines entirely cover the rounded 

branching protuberances of the fungus. The upper 

teeth are short and form a sort of " crown," falling 

from which the more and more elongated spines are 

firmly pendent beneath, somewhat suggesting as many 

heads of tiny skye-terriers in crowded convocation 

-or a tiny bleached " hedgehog," if you choose. 

A fungus bearing such conspicuous characteristics 
may be gathered and eaten without fear, assuming 
the specimen to be fresh and free from grubs. It will 
be found an aromatic and savory morsel, though sim- 
ply fried in butter and served on toast. 

One other species may be mentioned briefly, the 
H. coralloides, or Moss -mushroom, which is unfamil- 
iar to the writer, but which Curtis includes among 
his edible fungi. It may be found growing sidewise 



246 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" on old trunks of living trees," at first white, then 
yellowish, resembling when young the chou -fleur 

(cauliflower). From its base, which is 

Moss= tender and fleshy, spring a large num- 

mushroom ber of flexible branches, interlaced and 

assembled in tufts, bearing upon the 
summit of each of their divisions an expansion of 
long points or projections, at first straight, then pen- 
dent, and even curved under, and terminating in 
layers. Cordier says that it is " delicate food." 

Professor Peck speaks enthusiastically of this spe- 
cies. " It is found in woods, especially in hilly and 
mountainous districts, and occurs during rainy or 
showery weather from August to October. It is a 
pretty fungus, and very attractive to those who are 
neither botanists nor fungus eaters, and it is as good 
as it is beautiful. In our botanical expeditions in the 
vast wilderness of the Adirondack region, we were 
often obliged to camp in the woods several nights in 
succession. On such occasions this fungus some- 

O 

times formed a luxurious addition to our ordinarily 
simple and sometimes limited bill of fare." 

The Hydnei may be cooked in the same manner 

as employed for the ordinary mushroom, or gathered 

and dried for winter use, a very com- 

Hydnum mon cus t om on the Continent. Owin^ 

in the 

kitchen to the somewhat firm, compact sub- 
stance of these mushrooms they should 
be cooked slowly, in order to preserve their tender- 
ness. Berkeley recommends that they be "previously" 
steeped in hot water. Badham especially favors the 
Hydnum stew, which he claims is " an excellent dish 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 247 

with a flavor of oysters." According to the same au- 
thority it yields also a " very good puree." The 
" oyster " flavor is recognized in many of the epicu- 
rean encomiums on this species. Various hints as 
to its culinary treatment will be found in a later 
chapter. 

THE CORAL OR CLUB FUNGUS 
Clavaria 

What frequenter of the summer and autumn woods 
has failed to observe that occasional dense cluster of 
creamy-colored, coral-like growth such as I have indi- 
cated at Plate 30, and who has thought to gather up 
its fragile, succulent mass with designs 

O O 

A neglected on the cook ? I have seen clusters of 

feast this fungus so dense and ample as to 

strikingly suggest a huge cauliflower, 

and representing many pounds in weight. But in 

the absence of popular appreciation it must needs 

decay by "whole hundred-weights" in the woods. 

This is the Clavaria, or coral fungus more literal- 
ly translated, though less appropriate to this partic- 
ular species, " club fungus" a representative of a 
genus containing many edible species. 

The one presented in the Plate is Clavaria for- 
mosa, or the elegant Clavaria. It grows from four 
to six inches in height, is deep creamy yellow or pale 
orange buff in color, and slightly reddish at tips of 
branches. It has a sweet taste, a fragile, brittle con- 
sistency, and white substance ; its spores are pale- 
ochre colored. Curtis gives thirteen edible native 
species. Among them are the following, which hard- 



2 4 8 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ly call for severe technical description, as the entire 
group are doubtless edible : 

The true " coral fungus" Clavaria coralloidcs- 
of our woods resembles C.formosa in general shape, 



X 1 . v ~*fcl i^*Li 











' 



THE WHITE CORAL FUNGUS 



but its color is white, or perhaps pale gray. Its thick 
stem is hollow, and its uneven, crowded branches are 
brittle and flesh -white. Its odor is 
Clavaria like that of the Agaricns cainpestris, 
coraiioides an d it possesses a sweet, pleasant fla- 
vor. Cordier recommends it as eatable 
even when raw. This species is in great favor in 
Germany, Switzerland, and Italy, where it is desic- 
cated for winter use. 



TLATE XXX 

THE CORAL FUNGUS 

Clavaria formosa 

Thickly branched from a stout pale base, the dense branchlets 

being tipped with two or three minute teeth. 
Color: Saffron yellow. Tips generally darker and more rosy. 
Flesh: White. 
Spores: Ochre-tinted. 
Taste : Sweet, tender, and delicate. 
Height: Four to six inches. 
Habitat: Woods. 



PLATE XXX 







>|K -w 





4 






CLAVARIA FORMOSA. 



H . 
X 

X 
X 



n 
r 







MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 255 

Clavaria fastigiata is a somewhat dwarf variety, 
usually found on lawns and pastures, seldom reach- 
ing a height of more than two inches. 

O O 

Clavaria In general aspect it resembles Fig. 3 in 
fastigiata Plate 31. It is of a yellow color, very 
densely branched from its short, slender 
stem close to the ground, the branches mostly termi- 
nating at the same height. 

All of the above-mentioned species, except C.for- 
mosa, have white spores, and while none of the genus 
is considered poisonous, though some 
White=spored are so bitter and of such tough con- 
species edible sistency as to make them unfit for food, 
it is generally conceded among the au- 
thorities that all white -spared Clavarias are certainly 
edible. The spores are easily obtained by simply 
laying the fungus upon a dark surface and excluding 
the air, as directed in a later chapter. 

The various forms assumed by the Clavarei are 
indicated in Plate 31. 

Fig. i is C.flava; 2. C. stricta ; 3. C. umbrina ; 4. 
C. rugosa ; 5. C. amethystina. Any specimen bearing 
resemblance to any of these in form, and which is 
found to have white spores, may be eaten without 
fear. 

The Clavaria forms a most inviting relish by the 
simple process of frying in butter, with seasoning to 
taste. They have the advantage of being quite free 
from "fungus -worms," and in the larger species are 
occasionally so plentiful that a half -bushel may be 
gathered in a few moments. 

Another species bearing the general shape sug- 



256 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

gested in Plate 31, fig. i, is the C. botrytis. It has a 
thick, fleshy trunk and swollen branches. Its sub- 
stance is very brittle ; color creamy-yellow, with red- 
tipped branchlets. It is found in woods. 

THE MOREL 

Morchella esculenta 

In decided contrast to any of the foregoing fungi, 
and of unmistakable aspect, is the famous Morel, 
Morchella esculenta (Plate 32). 

The Morel belongs to a cohort of fungi known 

as the Sporidiifera, in which the spores are enclosed 

in bag-like envelopes, in distinction to the Sporifera, 

in which the spores are naked and ex- 

Botanical posed, as shown in Plates 35 and 36. 

characters These cysts, or bags, or asci, which re- 
semble the cystidium in Plate 35, and 
in the family of Ascomycetes, to which the Morel 
belongs, each contains about eight spores, which are 
finally liberated by the bursting of the tip of the 
bag, after the manner of a Puff-ball. 

In the Morel the hymenium or spore-bearing sur- 
face is crowded with these cysts, and covers the 
entire exposed conical and pitted surface of the 
mushroom. 

Description is hardly necessary with its portrait 
before us. No other fungus at all resembles it ex- 
cept those of the same genus, and inasmuch as they 
are all edible, we may safely add to our bill of fare 
any fungus which resembles our illustration. The 
Morel has long been considered as one of the rarest 
of delicacies, always at a fancy premium in the 



TLATE XXXII 

THE MOREL 

Morchella esculenta 

Pileus : Oval, elliptical, or round in outline ; diameter one inch 
to three inches in a large specimen; hollow. Color pale 
yellowish brown, varying to greenish ; surface more or 
less regularly honeycombed with deep depressions. 

Stem : Hollow, dingy white, united to the base of pileus. 

Taste : Sweet and pleasant. 

Habitat: Woods, orchards, and shaded grassy places. 

Season: May and June. 



PLATE XXXI 




MORCHELLA ESCULENTA. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 26 1 

markets a bon-mot for the rich, a prize for the peas- 
ant. I could fill all rny allotted space with the 
delicate schemes of the chefs in its preparation for 
the table. 

Dr. Badham's recommendation, among my list of 
recipes, is worth a trial for the sake of novelty, if 
nothing more. The hollow shape of our Morel thus 
suggests a variation on the conventional methods of 
cooking. 

The color of the Morel in its prime is grayish- 
green, occasionally brownish. It is most commonly 
found in orchards, and is said to favor spots where 
charcoal or cinders have been thrown. 

HELVELLA 

Helvetia crispa 

One of the most strikingly individual of all the 
mushrooms, and one which could not possibly be 
confounded with any other kind, is the example pict- 
ured in Plate 33. With this mere portrait as our 
guide, we might safely classify our specimen at least, 
as to its genus ; and inasmuch as no one of the 
group is poisonous, and all are edible 
Specific with varying degrees of esculence, we 

characters can ma ke no mistake even in our vent- 
ures as amateur mycophagists. When, 
therefore, we find a fungus with such a peculiar, ir- 
regularly fluted and hollowed stem, itself hollow 
within, or tubular, and surmounted with a rather thin, 
flexible, wavy cap, resembling our illustration, we may 
know that we have a specimen of Helvella. If this 

example happens to be creamy above and ochre- 

14 



262 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

colored beneath, it is the Helvetia crispa of our Plate. 
The specimen here shown is somewhat larger than 
in nature. Other species are differently formed and 
colored, one of them having the cap dark ash-colored 
or even black. There are three species occasionally 
met with, of which the first, H. crispa, is the most 
common and perhaps the most delectable. 

The peculiar texture of these mushrooms permits 

of their ready desiccation, and in Britain and on the 

Continent they are commonly strung on strings and 

dried for future use, in which condition they have 

been compared to dried " wash-leather " in texture. 

The famous aristocratic Morel (Mor- 

Dried chella esculentd], already described, so 

mushrooms prized as food in Europe, and to which 
the Helvella is closely allied, has a sim- 
ilar irregular, pitted, hollowed, and netted surface 
over its entire conical or globular gray cap, and the 
same texture. Most competent judges claim that 
the delicious Morel possesses no advantages over 
the more plebeian Helvella as a delicacy for the 
table. The flavor is identical, and the other qual- 
ities of the two mushrooms make them equally 
desirable. 

The readiness with which they may be dried, and 
thus kept indefinitely, is another distinct advantage 
which the Morels and Helvellas possess over the 
ordinary gilled Agarics, many of which must be gath- 
ered in their young prime and immediately eaten. 

There are numerous ways of serving these fungi, 
among which is the common method of frying with 
butter or oil, and variously seasoning with onion, 



TL/tTE XXXIII 

THE WHITE HELVELLA 

Helvella crispa 

Pileus: Two to three inches in diameter; wavy or curled, 
reflexed at edges, often puckered towards centre; white 
or pale creamy; somewhat leathery in texture in older 
specimens. 

Spore surface: On underside of cap, ochraceous. 

Stem : White, more or less furrowed with vertical hollows. 

Taste : Similar to Morel, to which it is closely allied. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



PLATE XXXIII 










, 

^#f; 



HELVELLA CRISPA. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 



267 



garlic, herbs, etc., according to taste, and serving on 
toast, or with crisped bread-crumbs. Our chapter on 
recipes will suggest other more elaborate methods. 

PUFF-BALLS 
Lyeoperdacece 

A detailed discrimination of the Puff-balls is hard- 
ly necessary here, and I will therefore omit it. While 
I am not inclined to go so far as to contend, as was 
the quaint habit of old Dr. Culpeper, in his Herbal, 
in which he was wont similarly to elude description 
of an herb, affirming that " he were a fool indeed 
who does not know this plant" -or words of similar 




SECTION OF PUFF-BALL-EARLIER AND LATER STAGES 



import it is perfectly safe to say that if there is one 
fungus more than another with which the populace 
is specifically familiar it is the Puff-ball. 

In these fungi, of which there are many species, 
the spores are incased within the white or dingy 
peridium or more or less globular case gastcromy- 
cetetz, from gaster, a stomach. The interior spore 
substance is at first white and firm in structure, at 



268 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

length peppered with gray, both conditions being in- 
dicated in accompanying cut, and ultimately black 
or brown, after which the outer case becomes dry 
and papery, and soon bursts at the summit, liberat- 
ing its clouds of spores with the slight- 
Spore=cioud est zephyr, or, later, becoming dislodged 
dissemination f rom its slender anchorage to the soil, 
is whisked before the breeze envelop- 
ed in its spore -smoke. Fries, the eminent fungol- 
ogist, has reckoned the number of these spores in a 
single Puff-ball at ten millions presumably a con- 
servative estimate. 

But it will surprise most people to know that the 
plebeian Puff-ball of our pastures is good for some- 
thing besides the kick of the small boy. 

There are a number of species of the Puff-ball, 
and none of them is known to be poisonous. 

I have indicated an arbitrary group in Plate 34 
ranging in shape and size from the small white 
globular variety of an inch in diameter, L. saccatinn, 
and the pear-shaped L. gemmatum, to the giant past- 
ure species, which may frequently at- 
Various tain the dimensions of a foot -ball or 
species a bushel basket. In its larger dimen- 
sions it is more spreading in shape, 
being somewhat wider than high. All the Puff-balls 
are edible if gathered at the white stage i.e., white 
pulp ; those of yellow or darker fracture being ex- 
cluded, as the fungus in this later stage is not con- 
sidered fit for food. 

Of the esculent qualities of the larger species, Lyco- 
perdoii giganteum, we may judge from the statement 




'/ 



'PLATE XXXIV 

A GROUP OF PUFF-BALLS 

Lycoperdaceae 

The group opposite represents three species. The largest, 
L. gigantenm; the pear-shaped, L. gemmatum; and the small, 
round L. saccatum. 

L. gigantenm. The largest species. Diameter ten to twenty- 
five inches; often more spreading in shape than speci- 
men shown; surface smooth; stem hardly apparent; color 
dingy white in the edible state, at which time the solid 
flesh is also white. Spore dust, at maturity, yellowish 
brown. Grows in fields and pastures. 

L. gemmatum. Stem prolonged and tapering from above, sug- 
gesting the specific name pear-shaped; color dingy white; 
surface covered with deciduous warts; substance, young 
state, white ; spore dust brown ; height two to three 
inches. 

L. saccatum. Stemless; white; setting close to the ground; 
one to two inches in diameter; surface covered with loose, 
warty granules; substance, young state, white; spore dust 
brown. 

These and all other Puff-balls are edible in the young condi- 
tion when the pulp is white. 



PLATE XXXIV 







A GROUP OF PUFF-BALLS. 



LYCOPERDON GIGANTEUAV 



L. GEMMATUM. 



L. SACCATUM. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 273 

of a connoisseur: " Sliced and seasoned in butter and 

salt, and fried in the pan, no French omelette is half 

as good in richness and delicacy of 

Esculent flavor." M. C. Cooke, the British au- 

qualities thority, says of it: "In its young and 

pulpy condition it is excellent eating, 

and indeed has but few competitors for the place of 

honor at the table." Other epicurean suggestions 

will be found in a later page. Occasionally in its 

plenitude, especially during August and September, 

single clusters will be found which would afford a 

meal for a large family. 

Other species, more or less frequent, are the L. 
separans, whose outer epidermis cracks off in flakes 
at maturity ; L. cyatliiformc, or cup-shaped Lycoper- 
clon, a large species with distinctly purplish smoke 
so familiar to us all, the final cup -shaped remnant 
of its case having suggested its name. The larger 
specimens will be found the more fully flavored. 

There is but one danger which would seem to be 
possible with reference to the use of the Puff-ball as 
food within the restrictions already 
Closing words given, and that is, the remote contin- 
of caution gency assumable only on the suppo- 
sition of most careless observation --of 
confounding the white ball with the globular condi- 

o o 

tion of the Amanita (see Plate 2, fig. i), or other 
fungi of the same deadly group, which are similarly 
enclosed in a spherical volva in their early stages. 

But inasmuch as this spherical period of the Ama- 
nita is usually spent underground and out of sight, 
and the merest glance at its contents would at once 



2/4 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

reveal the folded form of the enclosed mushroom, it 
would hardly seem necessary to warn the intelligent 
reader. But " once warned, twice armed ;" and for 
absolute safety the tyro would do well to open every 
specimen, and be sure of its even, white, homogeneous 
substance before turning it over to the cook. 

i 

There are a number of other esculent species of 
fungi as easily available and enjoyable as those al- 
ready described, but the scheme of the volume would 
hardly warrant their inclusion. Even though the ele- 
ment of danger is practically eliminated, so far as the 
identification of the foregoing fungi is concerned, it 
is still wise for the amateur to proceed with caution 
until he has absolutely learned the individual species 
in their various forms of development. 







m. 



Y 



<2/Kiulrtoom 0pore-pzinU 

V^ / / 




UR common dusty Puff-ball, floating its faint 
trail of smoke in the breeze from the ragged flue 
at its dome-shaped roof as from an elfin tepee, or per- 
haps enveloping our feet in its dense purple cloud as 
we chance to step upon it in the path, is familiar 
to every one. To the mycophagist connoisseur, on 
the alert for every delectable fungus morsel for his 
fastidious appetite, the Puff-ball is in- 
Puff=ball deed pleasantly familiar, though a spec- 
spore=clouds imen in such a powdery stage as the 
above is apt to bring only regrets that 
its discovery has been thus delayed, for in its earlier 
firm white stas;e he knows it at his table as a most 

O 

delicate entree of " mock omelet." 

The old-time country physician gathered its pow- 
dery bag and carefully preserved it for another pur- 
pose, its spongy, dusty contents having been a time- 
honored remedy as a styptic, or for the arrest of 
hemorrhage from wounds. But by no class of the 
community perhaps is it so enthusiastically welcomed 
as by the small boy, to whom it is always a challenge 
for a kick and a consequent demonstration of smoke 
worthy of a Fourth-of-July celebration. 



278 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A week ago this glistening gray bag, so free with 
its dust-puff at the slightest touch, was solid in sub- 
stance and as white as cottage cheese in the fracture. 
In this condition, sliced and fried, it would have 
proven a veritable delicacy upon our table, quite sug- 
gesting an omelet in consistency and flavor, and in 
size also, if perchance we had been favored with 
one of the larger specimens, which frequently ap- 
proaches the dimensions of a football. 

But in a later stage this clear white fracture would 
have appeared speckled or peppered with gray spots 
(see page 271), and the next day entire- 
Development ly gray and much softened, and, later 
of spores again, brown and apparently in a state 
of decay. But this is not decay. This 
moist brown mass by evaporation becomes powdery, 
and the Puff-ball is now ripe, and preparing for 
posterity. 

Each successive squeeze, as we hold it between our 
fingers, yields its generous response in a puff of 
brown smoke, which melts away apparently into air. 
But the Puff-ball does not thus end in mere smoke. 
This vanishing purple cloud is corn- 
Buoyant posed of tiny atoms, so extremely mi- 
spore=atoms niite as to require the aid of a powerful 
microscope to reveal their shapes. Each 
one of these atoms, so immaterial and buoyant as to 
be almost without gravity, floating away upon the 
slightest breath, or even wafted upward by cur- 
rents of warm air from the heated earth, has with- 
in itself the power of reproducing another clump of 
Puff-balls, if only fortune shall finally lodge it in con- 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 279 

genial soil. These spores are thus analogous to the 
seeds of ordinary plants. The number of these vital 
atoms or spores in a single Puff-ball is almost past 
computation. Fries, however, an eminent fungologist, 

went to some pains to estimate this 

Number number, and, referring to a certain puff- 

of spores ball, says : " The spores are infinite. In 

a single individual of Reticnlaria 'max- 
ima I have reckoned ten millions so subtle as to 
resemble thin smoke as light as if raised by evapo- 
ration, and dispersed in so many ways by the sun's 
attraction, by insects, by adhesion and elasticity that 
it is difficult to conceive the spots from which they 
could be excluded." 

We have seen the myriad-fold dispersion of its po- 
tential atoms in the cloud of spore-smoke, but who 

ever thinks of a spore -cloud from a 

SP from Ud musnroom or a toadstool? Yet the 
mushrooms method of the Puff-ball is followed by 
all the other fungi, with only less con- 
spicuousness. The Puff-ball gives a visible salute, 
but any one of the common mushrooms or toadstools 
will afford us a much prettier and more surprising 
account of itself if we but give it the opportunity. 
This big yellow toadstool out under the poplar-tree 
its golden cap studded with brownish scurfy warts, 
its under surface beset with closely plaited laminae or 
gills who could ever associate the cloud of dry 
smoke \vith this moist, creamy -white surface? We 
may sit here all day and watch it closely, but we shall 
see no sign of anything resembling smoke or dust, 
albeit a filmy emanation is continually eluding us, 



280 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

floating away from beneath its golden cap, the eager 
breeze taking such jealous care of the continual 
shower that our eyes fail to perceive a hint of it. 

Do you doubt it ? You need wait but a few mo- 
ments for a visible demonstration of the fact in a 
pretty experiment, which, when once observed, will 
certainly be resorted to as a frequent pastime in lei- 
sure moments when the toadstool or 
Catching mushroom is available. 
the spores Here is a very ordinary-looking spec- 
imen growing beside the stone steps 
at our back door perhaps. Its top is gray, its gills 
beneath are fawn -colored. We may shake it as 
rudely as \ve will, and yet we shall get no response 
such as the Puff-ball will give us. But let us lay 
it upon a piece of white paper, gills downward, on 
the mantel, and cover it with a tumbler or finger- 
bowl, so as to absolutely exclude the least admission 
of air. At the expiration of five minutes, perhaps, 
we may detect a filmy pinkish -yellow tint on the 
paper, following beneath the upraised border of the 
cap, like a shadow faintly lined with 
A white. In a quarter of an hour the 

spore=portrait tinted deposit is perceptible across the 
room, and in an hour, if we carefully 
raise the mushroom, the perfect spore-print is revealed 
in all its beauty a spore -tint portrait of the un- 
der surface of the mushroom- -a pink -brown disk 
with a white centre, which indicates the point of con- 
tact of the cut stem, and white radiating lines, rep- 
resenting the edges of the thin gills, many of them 
as fine and delicate as a cobweb. 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 



28l 



Every fresh species experimented with will yield 
its surprise in the markings and color of the prints. 

These spore -deposits are, of course, fugitive, and 
will easily rub off at the slightest touch. But inas- 






MAKING THE PRINT 



much as many of these specimens, either from their 
beauty of form or exquisite color, or for educational 
or scientific purposes, it will be desirable to preserve, 
I append simple rules for the making and " fixing " 
of the prints by a process which was original with 
15 



282 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the writer, and which he has found most effective 
for their preservation. 

Take a piece of smooth white writing-paper and 
coat its surface evenly with a thin solution of gum- 
arabic, dextrine, or other mucilage, and 
Making allow it to dry. Pin this, cmmmed side 

and fixing 

spore=prints uppermost, to a board or table, prefer- 
ably over a soft cloth, so that it will lie 
perfectly flat. To insure a good print the mushroom 
specimen should be fresh and firm, and the gills or 
spore-surface free from breaks or bruises. Cut the 
stem off about level with the gills, lay the mushroom, 
spore -surf ace downward, upon the paper, and cover 
with a tumbler, finger-bowl, or other vessel with a 
smooth, even rim, to absolutely exclude the slightest 
ingress of air. After a few hours, perhaps even 
less, the spores will be seen through the glass on 
the paper at the extreme edge of the mushroom, their 
depth of color indicating the density of the deposit. 
If we now gently lift the glass, and with the utmost 
care remove the fungus, perhaps by the aid of pins 
previously inserted, in a perfectly vertical direction, 
without the slightest side motion, the spore -print in 
all its beauty is revealed perhaps a rich brown cir- 
cular patch with exquisite radiating 
Various colors white lines, marking the direction and 
of spores edges of the gills, if an Agaric ; perhaps 
a delicate pink, more or less clouded 
disk, here and there distinctly and finely honey-comb- 
ed with white lines, indicating that our specimen is 
one of the polypores, as a Boletus. Other prints will 
yield rich golden disks, and there will be prints of 




Hymenium or Gills 



Section of Hymenium 



Cystidium 



Sterile Cell 



.vvf^r % m l &ms \ 
,'.:; vWihmiK?- 




Spore-print 



PLATE XXXV. SPORE-SURFACE OF AN AGARIC 



i 



A_Tube 
Shedding Spores 




Spore-print 



PLATE XXXVI. SPORE-SURFACE OF POLYPORUS (BOLETUS) 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 287 

varying red, lilac, green, orange, salmon -pink, and 
brown and purple, variously lined in accordance with 
the nature of their respective parent gills or pores. 

Occasionally we shall look in vain for our print, 
which may signify that our specimen had already 
scattered its spores ere we had found it, or, what is 

more likely, that the spores are invisi- 
invisible ble upon the paper, owing to their white- 
prints ness, in which case black or colored 

paper must be substituted for the white 
ground, when the spores will be beautifully manifest 
in a white tracery upon the darker background. One 
of these, from the Amanita muscarius, is reproduced 
in Plate 37. If the specimen is left too long, the 
spore-deposit is continued upward between the gills, 
and may reach a quarter of an inch in height, in 
which case, if extreme care in lifting the cap is used, 
we observe a very realistic counterfeit of the gills of 
the mushroom in high relief upon the paper. A 
print of this kind is of course very fragile, and must 
be handled with care. But a comparatively slight 
deposit of the spores, without apparent thickness, will 
give us the most perfect print, while at the same 

time yielding the full color. Such a 

Fixing print may also be fixed by our present 

the print method so as to withstand considerable 

rough usage, by laying the paper upon 
a wet towel until the moisture has penetrated through 
and reached the gum. The spores are thus set, and, 
upon drying the paper, are securely fixed. Indeed, 
the moisture exuded by the confined fungus beneath 
the glass is often sufficient to set the spores. 



288 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A number of prints may be obtained successively 

from a single specimen gathered at its fruitful prime. 

To those of my readers interested in the science of 

this spore -shower I give illustrations of examples of 

the two more common groups of mushrooms the 

Agaric, or gilled mushroom, and the Polyporus, or 

tube -bearing mushroom. The entire 

Agarics surface of both gills and pores is lined 

and Poiypores with the spore- bearing membrane or 

hymenium, the spores being produced 

in fours from each of the crowded sporophores, and, 

where all air is absolutely excluded, permitting them 

to fall directly beneath their point of departure as 

indicated ; in the case of the Agaric, in radiating 

lines in correspondence with the spaces between the 

gills ; and in Polyporus, directly beneath the opening 

of each pore, whose inner surface is lined with the 

sporophores, as shown in Plate 36. 

This dust-shower is continuous in nature after the 
perfect ripening of the spores, but it is almost impos- 
sible to conceive of such an entire absence of moving 
air under natural conditions as to permit even a 
visible hint of the spore-shower to appear beneath its 
respective fungus. An exception to this rule is 
sometimes to be seen in fungi of mass- 
Spore=mist e j Growth as, for example, beneath 

from an 

Agaric such a cluster as that shown on page 
147. Indeed, a correspondent recently 
described such a cluster as " enveloped in a mist of its 
own spores floating away in the apparently still air." 

In Plate 38 is shown a spore-print with a peculiar 
elongated tail. Such was the specimen which I ob- 





; Silil f ff/////J 

M mm/: 




PLATE XXXVII. SPORE-PRIXT OF AMANITA MUSCARIUS 








PLATE XXXVin. ACTION OF SLIGHT DRAUGHT ON SPORES 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 



293 



served when lifting the pasteboard box which had 
been placed above the mushroom to absolutely ex- 
clude the air. The explanation was simple when I 
discerned that the tapering elongation pointed direct- 
ly to a tiny hole in the box barely 
Affected larger than a knitting-needle. 

by a pm=hole 2, . . 

draft The greatest portion of the myriads 

of spores are wafted to the ends of the 
earth, and form an important element in the so-call- 
ed " dust " so unwelcome to the tidy housewife. A 




FUNGUS SPORES 



sticky glass slide exposed to the deposit of such dust, 
and placed beneath the microscope, will reveal many 
fungus spores. The air is full of them. 



294 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A few of the various characteristic forms of these 
fungus-spores is shown on a previous page, somewhat 
as a powerful microscope would reveal them to us. 

But it is only as they chance to alight individually 
in congenial conditions for growth that they will con- 
sent to vegetate. Thus billions of them are doomed 
to perish without progeny. These whims of habitat 
among the fungi are almost past belief. 
Whims Here, for instance, is a tiny Puff -ball 
of habitat hardly larger than the period on this 
page. It bursts at the summit, and 
sheds its puff of microscopic spores, so light as to 
be without gravity, floating and settling everywhere 
upon the earth, but only as they chance to alight 
upon the spines of a dead chestnut -burr of two years' 
decay will they find heart to grow. Such is the 
fastidiousness of the little white mushroom, whose 
globular caps dot the spines of the decaying chest- 
nut-burrs in so many damp nooks in the woods. 

In closing my chapter a glance at the further ec- 
centricities of choice will not be inopportune. I ap- 
pend a few taken at random from the 
Curious pages of Berkeley, which lie open be- 
fastidiousness f O re me. In addition to the general 
broad distinctions of habitat as " woods," 
" rotten wood," " old pastures," " dunghills," we find 
such fastidious selections as the following, each by a 
distinct species with its own individual whim : " Dead 
fir-cones, sawdust, beechnuts, plaster walls, old fer- 
menting coffee-grounds, wheat ears, cinders, dead oak 
leaves, old linen, wheat bread, hoofs, feathers, decayed 
rope, fat, microscopic lenses, and damp carpets." 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 295 

A complete list of these exclusive habitats of fungi 
would well fill a large book, and might indeed almost 
involve the " index " of our botanies and zoologies, 

o 

to say nothing of organic substances generally. 

Plants, both living and dead, are favorite habitats 
for various species. The old stems of the common 
European nettle, according to Cooke, becomes the 
host of about thirty distinct species of the minute 
fungi. The toadstool itself is often the victim of 
other minor species. Insects are a frequent prey. 
The wasp succumbs to its special fungus parasite, 
which has formed a home within its body, and the 
common house-fly is seen in the toils 
House=fiy of its similar enemy, as it hangs help- 
fungus less by its proboscis upon the window- 
pane, enveloped in the winding-sheet 
of white mould from the fungus which has done its 
work within the insect's body. Spiders, locusts, 
ants, cicadas, and presumably all insects, are subject 
to similar fate from their especial parasitic fungi. 
The fungus thus often comes to the rescue of afflicted 
humanity in regulating the undue increase of insect 
pests. Here is a pretty, slender, orange, pointed mush- 
room growing in the moss. We pluck it from its 
bed, and it brings to the surface a chrysalis, with the 
dead moth distinctly seen within the cavity from 
which its roots spring. When we next come upon 
this species in the moss, we may confidently predict 
the discovery of this same species of chrysalis. 

A similar long, slender fungus springs from the 
head of a caterpillar in New Zealand, and at length 
almost absorbs the insect's body. A similar species 



296 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



upon another caterpillar is carefully collected and 
desiccated by the Chinese, with whom it forms an im- 
portant article in their native pharma- 
Edible copceia, and, moreover, it seems, may be 

caterpillar . . J 

fungi perhaps appropriately included among 
the " edibles," for are we not assured by 
these expert and indiscriminate epicures of the chop- 
sticks that this species " makes an excellent dressing 
for roast duck.' 






' 

*JM\Si*. ' 




^.--S^fet 
^ iSs-ii" 



Concerning " Mushromes and Tadstoles 




now for that our fine 
mouthed and daintie wantons 
who set such store by their 
tooth ; take so great delight 
to dress this only dish with 
their own hands, that they 
may feed thereon in conceit and cogi- 
tation all the while they be handling 
and preparing the same, furnished in 
this their businesse with their fine 
knives and razors of amber and other 
vessels of silver about them. 

"I for my part also am content to 
frame and accomodate myself to their 
humourous fancie and will shew unto 
them in generall certaine observa- 
tions and rules how to order and use them 
that they may be eaten with securitie. " 



I*W* 

E 



PLINIUS SECUNDUS. 




HE earnest plea of Dr. Badham for 
this neglected rather, I may say, 
spurned spontaneous harvest of 
fungi is well worth emphasizing in our pages ; afford- 
ing, as it does, a most suggestive commentary on the 
universal popular ignorance, so far as America is con- 
cerned, of the economic value of this perennial of- 
fering of Nature, which abounds in such luxuriance 
throughout our continent. 

" I have this autumn myself," he writes, "witnessed 
whole hundred -weights of rich, wholesome diet rot- 
ting under trees ; woods teeming with 
food, and not one hand to gather it ; 
and this, perhaps, in the midst of a po- 
tato-blight, poverty, and all manner 
of privations, and public prayers against imminent 
famine. 

" I have, indeed, grieved, when I have reflected on 
the straitened condition of the lower classes this year, 
to see pounds innumerable of extempore beefsteaks 
growing on our oaks in the shape of Fistulina hepat- 
ica ; Agaricus fusipes, to pickle, in clusters under 
them ; Puff-balls, which some of our friends have not 

16 



The spurned 
harvest 



3OO EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

inaptly compared to sweetbreads for delicacy of their 

unassisted flavor ; Hydna, as good as oysters, which 

they somewhat resemble in taste; Agar- 

e icus deliciosus, reminding us of tender 

comprehensive ,..,., 

fungus lamb kidneys ; the beautiful yellow 

Chantarelle, that kalou kaigothon of diet, 
growing by the bushel, and no basket but our own 
to pick up a few specimens on our way ; the sweet, 
nutty-flavored Boletus, in vain calling himself ' edulis ' 
where there was none to believe him ; the dainty 
Orcella; the Agaricus heterophyllns, which tastes like 
a crawfish when grilled ; the Agaricus ruber, and 
Agariciis virescens, to cook in any way and equally 
good in all these are the most conspicuous of the 
trouvailles" 

His remarks applied to Great Britain, and reflected 
a popular disdain of fungi, which presented a marked 
contrast to the appreciation of the 
A reliable mushroom of the Continent, where the 
crop fungus had become the much -sought 
bonne bouche of the epicure, and the wel- 
come reliance of the peasant poor, to whom it afforded 
a perfect substitute for the desideratum of animal 
food commonly denied them by their circumstances. 

This plea of Dr. Badham's is even more pointedly 
pertinent to the America of the present than it was 
for his own country at the time ; for 
The fungus while, in Great Britain, the mycophagist 
specialist epicure was even then occasionally to 
be met with, in America to-day this par- 
ticular gastronomic specialist is locally conspicuous, or 
rather notorious, from his very rarity, being popularly 



RECIPES 301 

considered as a sort of dangerous crank, who should 
be conservatively muzzled by the authorities, for the 
safety of himself as well as the public. 

In the absence of any adequate popular guide to 

this great food resource, it may be hoped that this 

present work may afford not merely an 

Mycophagist occasional dainty entree to the menu 

missionaries of the luxurious epicure, but a far 

more important consideration a means 

of brinsfinsf the fungus within reach of the less-favored 

o o o 

masses as a never-failing dependence for their daily 
food. 

Dr. Badham's further pertinent remarks are worth 
quoting, in this connection, with emphasis : " As 
soon as the reader is initiated in this class of dain- 
ties he will, I am persuaded, lose no time in making 
the discovery known to the poor of his neighbor- 
hood ; while in so doing he will render an important 
service to the country at large, by instructing the in- 
digent and ignorant in the choice of an ample, whole- 
some, and excellent article, which they may convert 
into money or consume at their own tables, when 
properly prepared, throughout the winter." 

Concerning the lavish plenitude of the fungus as 
a food resource, a passage from a letter of the late Dr. 
Curtis, of North Carolina, to the Rev. J. M. Berke- 
ley, of England, many years ago, is 
A suggestive most significant : " Of this latter qual- 

statement ity I had become so well convinced 
that, during our late war, I sometimes 
averred and I doubt if there was much, if any, exag- 
geration in the assertion that in some parts of 



302 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the country I could maintain a regiment of soldiers 
five months in the year upon mushrooms alone." A 
statement which doubtless will appear extravagant to 
those who have been accustomed to consider the one 
common "mushroom'' as the only esculent among 
the fungi. 

As already mentioned previously in my pages, the 

fungus affords a perfect substitute, chemically and 

gastronomically, for animal food. The 

Nutritious analysis of its substance is almost iden- 

properties tical with that of meat, being especially 
rich in nitrogenous elements, while its 
flavor and aroma and texture, as served for the table, 
occasionally so closely imitate that of flesh food as 
to be actually deceptive. Even in its raw state it 
would occasionally seem to suggest the same animal 
similarity. As an illustration, I recall the following 
striking instance of gastronomic discrimination in a 
carnivorous appetite, as exemplified in a full-grown 
pet hawk which I had tethered near my country 
studio. 

One day, returning from a toadstool hunt, she ob- 
served me approaching with a basketful of mush- 
rooms. They were mostly of the fleshy 

. ^ Boleti species. Supposing that I was 

discriminating ... . 

hawk bringing her rood, she became very de- 
monstrative in her actions, eying me 
most eagerly, and uttering that peculiar low squeal 
which seemed to emanate from the region of her 
appetite. As she approached me, thinking to satisfy 
her that the basket contained nothing suitable for 
hawk -food, I tossed her one of the largest of the 



RECIPES 303 

mushrooms, which she almost caught in mid-air in 
her talons. Such was the strength of her clutch that 
the fungus was scattered in fragments upon the 
ground, when what was my surprise to observe the 
bird proceed from one fragment to another in a most 
ravenous manner, exhibiting all those tactics habitual 
to the hawk with live prey the lowering and out- 
spreading of the wings and tail against the ground, 
the raising of the neck feathers, and the same de- 
fiant, defensive mien which she had so often shown 
on previous occasions when a mouse or a squirrel 
had been the object of her solicitude. Having eaten 
the first fungus, I threw her another, which she de- 
voured with the same eagerness, and another, and 
another, until she had taken five, and her crop was 
as large as a pint cup ; after which she betook her- 
self quietly to her roost on the rail near by, evidently 
under the supposition that she had broken her fast 
with a sumptuous meal of rabbit or squirrel flesh. 

The Agaricus ostreatiis is known as the " vegetable 
oyster" -its flavor in a stew quite closely simulating 
the flavor of the bivalve ; another fun- 
Fish, flesh, gus as the " beefsteak mushroom " -not 
and fowl without good reason ; the Poly 'porn s 
snlphureus distinctly suggests the flesh 
and flavor of chicken ; others, as we have seen, re- 
semble kidneys and sweetbread; while the Agaricus 
ulmarius of the elm would seem entitled to its popu- 
lar name of " fish-mushroom," from the following inci- 
dent related by Palmer: 

"I recently sent some elm -tree mushrooms to a 
family where the youngest member is but twenty-one 



304 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

months of as;e. At breakfast-time she noticed the 

O 

strange dish, and her father gave her a small piece. 
' More fish ! more fish !' was the instant response." 

Indeed, the vegetarian may humor his humane 

whim, and still enjoy fish, flesh, and fowl at his table 

without a qualm of conscience in a 

A boon to menu which, in aroma, quality, and fla- 

the vegetarian v or, mishit well deceive his unconverted 

O 

omnivorous brother, only at last to win 
his encomium to the glory of the multum in parvo 
fungus. The possibilities in this direction are sug- 
gested in my appended hints for a menu for the 
vegetarian. 

In my previous pages I have made occasional refer- 
ence to the more simple methods of preparation of 
certain species of fungi for the table, but have re- 
served extended reference to culinary treatment for 
the present chapter. 

For the benefit of those of my readers who may 
desire to " humour their delicate fancie " to the full, 
with the result of a more or less corn- 
Fungi in plete disguise of the characteristic 

the kitchen mushroom flavor through the arts which 
are supposed to " assist nature," I ap- 
pend a selected list of favorite recipes for such al- 
leged appetizing sophistication of the mushroom. 
Many of them will be found equally applicable to 
other species than that for which they are nominally 
recommended, especially if such species should pos- 
sess the same general character as to consistency. 

The author confesses that he is not in thorough 
sympathy with the general trend of these ingeniously 



RECIPES 305 

contrived lures to dyspepsia, whose contemplation 
may well awaken a sympathetic appreciation of that 
antique philosophic epigram, " There are as many 
diseases as cooks " -the discriminating impeachment 
of Seneca regarding the " chef a la mode" 

But doubtless the author will be overwhelmingly 

overruled in his hypercriticisms, and will remain one 

of a select discriminating minority in 

De gustibus continued srenuine enjoyment of his 

non est 

disputandum mushrooms, while the majority of his 
proselytes to mycophagy will in vain 
endeavor to detect the mushroom flavor in the oblit- 
erating disguise concocted in the kitchen or insti- 
gated by the mischievous "receipt-book." 

Indeed, the prominence of the spice, clove, nut- 
meg, thyme, tarragon, and pepper ingredient in most 
of these " favorite recipes," to say nothing of the 
champagne, onion, garlic, lemon-juice, cayenne, an- 
chovy, etc., with which the delicately flavored mush- 
rooms are so generally sophisticated in these culi- 
nary preparations, would seem to warrant our scep- 
ticism as to the value of the epicurean testimony 
as to the " superior flavor," of the various " Cham- 
pignons," " Chantarelles," etc., so confidently recom- 
mended. The juice of a lemon, or oil of lemon-peel, 
will absolutely annihilate the peculiar characteristic 
"fungus" flavor of the average mushroom. The true 
mushroom epicure, it would seem, should value his 
inousserou not as an absorbent vehicle for the eras- 

O 

tronomic conveyance of highly seasoned sauce or 
dressing, but for the unique individual flavor which 
differentiates the fungus from other kinds of food. 



306 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But we are all allowed to differ in matters of taste, 
and each must decide for himself or herself what par- 
ticular disguise is most palatable. 

The recipes which follow are from various sources, 
most of them modifications based upon the earlier 
epicurean devices of Mrs. Hussey and Dr. Badham, the 
pioneers of English mycophagy, and of Roques, Per- 
soon, Paulet, Cordier, and other noted European au- 
thorities. I am indebted, also, to the works of M. C. 
Cook, Worthington Smith, W. Robinson, and J. A. 
Palmer for occasional selections from their recom- 
mended recipes. 

RECIPES FOR MUSHROOM COOKING 

In all cases the mushroom should be fresh, clear 
and free from the insect indications mentioned on 
page 131. Some epicures recommend that the speci- 
mens be also washed in cold acidulated water and 
dried in a cloth ; for what reason is not clear, unless 
the mushrooms are sufficiently dirty to require such 
cleansing process. 

i Mushroom Soup 

" Take a good quantity of mushrooms, cut off the 
earthy ends and wash them ; stew them, with some 
butter, pepper, and salt, in a little good stock until 
tender; take them out and chop them up until quite 
small ; prepare a good stock as for any other soup, 
and add it to the mushrooms and the liquor they have 
been stewed in. Boil all together and serve. If white 



RECIPES 307 

soup be desired, use the white button-mushrooms and 
a good veal stock, adding a spoonful of cream or a 
little milk, as the color may require."- -W. Smith. 

Other mushrooms may be substituted for the ordi- 
nary Campestris above mentioned. A very good 
mock oyster soup may be prepared from the mush- 
rooms Hydnum and the Agaricus ostreatus. 

2 Puree of Mushrooms 

" To make a puree of mushrooms, select such as are 
of a globular shape, called 'button-mushrooms;' wash 
them in cold water and wipe them dry ; chop them as 
fine as possible and press them in a cloth ; put them 
in a stewpan with a little butter and pepper; let 
them stand over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in lemon-juice and add jelly broth, ac- 
cording to the quantity of the mushrooms. Stew 
until reduced to the consistency of pea-soup, and 
serve with meat, fish, or poached egg."- -Cooke. 

3 Mushroom Stew 

Put about two ounces of butter into a stewpan ; 
when thoroughly melted add a teaspoonful of salt, 
and from a quarter to half the quantity of black pep- 
per, according to taste, and a small bit of mace or a 
pinch of powdered nutmeg. Having a pint of the 
mushrooms in readiness, put them in the pan, cover 
closely, and stew them till they are tender, which will 
probably require from twenty minutes to half an 
hour. The addition of flour stirred in cream or 
milk, by which the stew is thickened, is by some 
considered a desirable addition. This recipe is given 



308 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with special reference to the Campestris, but will be 
found suitable for other mushrooms of the same con- 
sistency. 

4 Broiled Mushrooms on Toast 

Remove the stems, and place the mushrooms in 
a double wire broiler over the coals, with the gill sides 
down, for about two minutes, or even less if the speci- 
mens are small. The broiler should then be turned, 
and the cooking should proceed for two minutes more; 
towards the end of that time the juicy gills should 
be sprinkled with salt and pepper, a small piece of 
butter being finally melted in each as they are served 
on the hot toast. By this simple method all the 
natural juices of the mushroom are retained and the 
true aroma and flavor is conserved. Bacon toasted 
over the mushrooms is considered by some to im- 
prove the flavor. 

5 Mushrooms a la Provencal 

Take mushrooms of good size, remove the stems 
and cut their tops in halves or quarters, which, with 
the chopped stems, should then be immersed in olive 
oil, spiced with salt, pepper, and a piece of garlic, for 
about two hours. They should then be put into a 
stewpan with oil and cooked over a brisk fire. A 
variation of this method includes the addition of 
chopped meat and the yolks of two eggs, the whole 
being slightly browned in the oven before serving. 

6 Mushrooms a la Creme 

"Trim and rub half a pint of button-mushrooms; 
dissolve two ounces of butter rolled in flour in a stew- 



RECIPES 309 

pan ; then put in the mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, 
a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful each of white 
pepper and powdered sugar; shake the pan around 
for ten minutes, then beat up the yolks of two eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and add by degrees 
to the mushrooms. In two or three minutes you can 
serve them in the sauce."- -Worthington Smith. 

7 Mushroom Ragout 

" Put into a stewpan a little stock, a small quantity 
of vinegar, parsley and green onions chopped up, 
salt, and spices. When this is about to boil, the 
mushrooms being cleaned, put them in. When done 
remove them from the fire and thicken with yolks of 
eggs.' 1 Worthington Smith. Another recommends 
that the stew should be poured upon toast, or upon 
crusts of bread previously fried in butter. 

8 Stewed Mushrooms on Toast. 

Put a pint of mushrooms into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of butter rolled in flour, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a blade of 
powdered mace, and half a teaspoonful of grated lem- 
on ; stew until the butter is all absorbed, then serve 
on hot toast as soon as the mushrooms are tender. 

9 Champignon 

" Cut in small pieces and seasoned it makes an ex- 
cellent addition to stews, hashes, or fried meats ; but 
it should be added only a few minutes before serving, 
as the aroma is dissipated by over-cooking. It is the 
mushroom used in the French a la mode beef-shops 



310 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

in London."- Badham. They may be cooked in any 
of the methods employed for the ordinary mushroom 
already noted. 

10 Chantarelle Stew 

This mushroom, being of rather tough consistency, 
requires long and slow cooking. 

" Cut the mushrooms across and remove the stems ; 
put them into a closely covered saucepan with a little 
fresh butter, and sweat them until tender at the low- 
est possible temperature. A great heat always de- 
stroys the flavor." Mrs. Hnssey. 

ii Hydnum Stew 

Roques, the French mycologist, says of the Hyd- 
num repandum : " The general use of this fungus 
throughout France, Italy, and Germany leaves no 
room for doubt as to its good qualities." But very 
little has been said of its companion species, the //. 
caput-meduste, described in the foregoing pages, and 
which is certainly greatly its superior in texture and 
flavor. Dr. Harkness considers it one of the most 
delicious morsels amon^ the whole fungus tribe. 

O O 

Both species, containing naturally less moisture 
than most mushrooms, are easily dried. When fresh 
they should be soaked in water and cooked slowly 
at low temperature and frequently basted, the dried 
specimens being first soaked in tepid water until their 
original form and pulpy consistency are nearly re- 
gained. 

In a puree the Hydnum makes an appetizing dish, 
with a slight flavor of oysters. 



RECIPES 311 

Roques recommends the following recipe for a 
stew: "Cut the mushrooms into pieces and let them 
steep in warm water for twenty minutes. Then al- 
low them to simmer for an hour in a pan with butter, 
pepper, salt, and parsley, with the addition of beef or 
other gravy." 

Mrs. Hussey recommends stewing in brown or 
white sauce ; in the latter case it will closely suggest 
" oyster sauce." 

Another mushroom-- the Lactarius deliciosus- 
stewed in a similar manner closely suggests the 
flavor of lambs 1 kidneys. 

12 Roast Mushrooms 

Mr. Palmer recommends the following : " Cut the 
larger specimens into fine pieces and place them in a 
small dish, with salt, butter, and pepper to taste ; put 
in about two tablespoonfuls of water, then fill the dish 
with the half-open specimens and the buttons ; cover 
tightly and place in the oven, which must not be 
overheated, for about ten minutes. The juice of the 
larger mushrooms will keep them moist, and, if fresh, 
yield a most abundant gravy." 

13 Baked Russula 

See that the mushrooms are free from dirt and grit 

o 

on tops and stems, or rinse in cold water, afterwards 
wiping them dry and shaking off the water from the 
gills; make a mince of the stems, bread-crumbs, 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little butter or oil ; 
pile this upon the gills; place the mushrooms in a 
shallow dish in a hot oven and baste them frequently 



312 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with the melted butter or oil. In about fifteen minutes 
they will be ready to serve. 

The Oyster Mushroom or its congener, the Agar- 
icus ulmarius, might both be treated by this method, 
the oyster or fish -like flavor of these species thus 
affording a distinct second course for our menu. 
Either of these Pleurotus species may also be treated 
so as to closely suggest an escalop of oyster or fish. 

14 Baked Procerus 

Remove the stems; do not rinse the mushrooms 
unless they are soiled, and this species is usually con- 
spicuously clean ; put some slices of toast in a well- 
buttered pie-dish, and, with a little melted butter or 
cream poured over them, lay in the mushrooms ; 
sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of 
minced parsley which has previously been rubbed 
with onion or garlic ; cover the dish with a plate 
and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes and serve 
in the dish. The aroma is thus conserved, and, upon 
being released at the table, will prove a most savory 
appetizer. 

15 Cottagers' Procerus Pie 

The following appetizing recipe is recommended 
by Robinson : " Cut fresh Agarics in small pieces, 
cover the bottom of a pie-dish with small, thin slices 
of bacon, and place the mushroom fragments upon 
them, with the addition of salt and pepper; upon 
this place a layer of mashed potatoes, following again 
with other similar layers of bacon, mushrooms, and 
potatoes, until the dish is filled, the last layer of 



RECIPES 313 

potato answering for a crust ; bake in the oven for 
half an hour, and brown before a brisk fire." 

Doubtless many other species of mushroom would 
lend themselves equally well to this particular treat- 
ment. 

16 Baked Qambosus 

" Place some fresh -made toast, nicely divided, on a 
dish, and put the Agarics upon it ; pepper, salt, and 
put a small piece of butter on each; then pour on 
each one a tablespoonful of milk or cream, and add a 
single clove to the whole dish; place a bell-glass or 
inverted basin over the whole ; bake twenty minutes, 
and serve up without removing the glass until it comes 
to the table, so as to preserve the heat and aroma, 
which, on lifting the cover, will be diffused through 
the room." Cooke. "A great quantity of gravy 
comes out of it, mingled, in the case of a good 
specimen, with osmazome, which tastes very much 
like the similar brown exudation on the surface of a 
roast leg of mutton." Robinson. 

17 Fried Mushrooms on Toast 

Place a pint of mushrooms in a pan, with a piece 
of butter about the size of an egg; sprinkle in a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper; 
when the butter is nearly absorbed, thicken with 
fresh butter and flour and pour upon hot toast, which 
should be served hot. 

18 flushrooms with Bacon 

Fry a few rashers of nice streaky bacon in the 
pan in the usual manner ; when nearly done add a 



314 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

dozen or so of mushrooms, and fry them slowly until 
they are cooked. In this process they will absorb 
all the fat of the bacon, and, with the addition of a 
little salt and pepper, will form a most appetizing 
breakfast relish. 

19 Mushrooms en Caisse 

The following is recommended as a dainty by 
Worthington Smith : " Peel the mushrooms lightly 
and cut them into pieces ; put them into cases of 
buttered paper, with a bit of butter, parsley, green 
onions, and shallots chopped up; salt and pepper; 
dress them on a gridiron over a gentle fire and serve 
in the cases." The cases might be made of pastry. 

20 Hungarian Soup of Boleti 

" Dry the Boleti in the oven ; soak the mushrooms 
in tepid water, thickening with toasted bread till the 
whole be of the consistency of a puree ; then rub 
through a sieve, throw in some stewed boleti, boil 
together, and serve with the usual condiments."- 

Paulct. 

21 Boletus Fritters 

Persoon recommends this method of treatment of 
the Boletus as very appetizing : The fritters may be 
prepared in the method ordinarily adopted, the slices 
of the mushroom being dipped in batter and brown- 
ed either in the frying-pan or in the hot fat, after the, 
manner of the doughnut. 

22 Beefsteak flush room 

This species is claimed to resemble meat in flavor 



RECIPES 315 

more than any other fungus. The gravy, in quality 
and color, would certainly deceive a most discrimi- 
nating palate. Like many of the Polyporei, it is com- 
paratively slow in maturing, occasionally, it is said, 
requiring two weeks ere it reaches its prime, when it 
may acquire a large size. 

It should be gathered before its maturity to insure 
tenderness, though the older, tougher individuals, cut 
in pieces and cooked separately, will yield a quantity 
of rich red gravy, to be added to the dish of more 
tender specimens. " If it is not beef itself," says Mrs. 
Hussey, " it is sauce for it." " If sliced and grilled it 
would pass for a good beefsteak," says Cooke, with 
truth. Mrs. Hussey recommends that it should be 
sliced and macerated in salt, the deep- red liquor 
which exudes should be put hot into a dish with a 
little lemon-juice and minced shallots, and a broiled 
steak deposited in it. It may also be variously 
stewed or fricasseed with excellent results, and af- 
fords a delicious soup with savor closely suggesting 
beef broth or consomme clair. A "beef -steak" pie 
made on the foregoing recipe prescribed for the 
Procerus would doubtless prove a most appetizing 
entree. 

23 The Oyster Mushroom 

" It may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, 
and is equally good in all," says a distinguished con- 
noisseur in soups, stewed, broiled, curried, baked, 
in the form of an escalop, patties, or vol-aii-vcnt, or 
fried with butter in the form of fritters. In all cases 
where the fungus itself is to be eaten, the specimens 
should be young and tender, the older individuals, 
17 



316 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

if free from insects, might be used for soups. See 
Recipe 13. 

24 Polyporus Stew 

The beautiful sulphur-colored Polyporus described 
in my previous pages when stewed closely suggests 
the tender white meat of chicken or veal, and might 
lend itself to various deceptive dishes, as, for instance, 
soups, croquettes, fricassees, or patties. 

Only the tender young plant should be employed, 
and a little experience will suggest various appetizing 
methods of treatment. 

25 Ragout of Morels or Helvella 

The following is an old-time recipe of Persoon : 
" Pick and clean your fungi and cut them in two ; 
wash and dry them well by wiping; then put them in 
a stewpan with butter, or a piece of ham or bacon ; 
place them over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in a little lemon-juice, give a few turns, 
and then add salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; 
cook slowly for an hour, pouring on at intervals small 
quantities of beef gravy or jelly broth to prevent burn- 
ing; when done, thicken with yolks of eggs." The 
lemon-juice is omitted by many, who consider it a pos- 
itively unpalatable as well as unwholesome ingredient. 

26 Stuffed Morels 

Dr. Badham's work contains the following recipes 
from Persoon, which, from the peculiar construction 
of the fungus, affords a contrast to ordinary methods: 
" Choose the freshest and whitest Morels ; open the 



RECIPES 317 

stalk at the bottom; wash and wipe them well; fill 
with veal stuffing, anchovy, or any rich farce you 
choose, securing the ends and dressing between 
slices of bacon. Serve with a sauce." 

27 Morelles a la Italienne 

Here is another skilful compound from the same 
source : " Having washed and dried the mushrooms, 
divide them across ; put them on the fire with some 
parsley, scallion, chervil, burner, tarragon, cives, a 
little salt, and two spoonfuls of fine oil ; stew until 
the juice runs out, then thicken with a little flour. 
Serve with bread-crumbs and a squeeze of lemon." 

28 Clavaria Stew 

Badham gives the following recipe for the Clavaria, 
or coral fungus : " After sousing in tepid water and 
wiping perfectly clean, the fungus should be ' sweat- 
ed ' over a slow fire, afterwards to be strained and the 
liquor thrown away; stew for an hour; add salt, pep- 
per, cloves, and parsley to taste, masking with plain 
stock and dredging occasionally with flour. Thicken 
with yolks of eggs and cream." 

29 Fried Clavaria 

The simple process of browning in butter or oil in 
the frying-pan, with the addition of pepper and salt, 
and serving hot on buttered toast or with fried eggs, 
will be found a most palatable method of treating 
this funsfus. For those who are willing to sacrifice 

O O 

the characteristic fiingus flavor to a savor more pro- 
nounced, the Clavaria is also said to be delicious 



318 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

when fried with onions or with curry in the usual 

method. 

30 Puff=ball 

Fritters, Omelettes, Sweetbreads, and Souffle 

As already described, the Puff-balls in their white- 
pulp condition are esculent and afford a delicate rel- 
ish. The species Giganteus sometimes attains a 
diameter of nearly two feet, and where such a speci- 
men or even much smaller ones are situated at an 
easily available distance, we may profit by the hint 
of Vitadini, the Italian mycologist : " Cut off a slice 
at a time, cutting it horizontally, and using great care 
not to disturb its growth, to prevent decay, and thus 
one may have a fritter every clay for a week." Dr. 
Curtis calls this species the " Southdown of mush- 
rooms." His opinion of its merits as food will be 
shared by others who give it a trial : " It has a deli- 
cacy of flavor that makes it superior to any omelette 
I have ever eaten. It seems, furthermore, to be so 
digestible as to adapt itself to the most delicate stom- 
ach." Mrs. Hussey, the pioneer English authority, 
recommends the following recipe : " First remove the 
outer skin; cut in slices half an inch thick; have 
ready some chopped herbs, pepper, and salt; clip the 
slices in the yolk of egg, and sprinkle the herbs upon 
them ; fry in fresh butter and eat immediately." 

The extreme tenderness and delicacy of the Puff- 
ball thus cooked resembles a souffle, and suggests 
many possibilities of appetizing variations and com- 
binations, as, for example, with jelly, in the form of 
an entremet or dessert. By many the flavor of the 
Puff-ball has been compared to "sweetbread," and 



RECIPES 319 

doubtless so cooked and served would afford an 
agreeable variation in the menu. Indeed, it mav be 

O + 

prepared in a variety of ways, as suggested for other 
species, but from its peculiar consistency is particu- 
larly adapted to frying in the pan. With chopped 
ham or thinly sliced smoked beef it might furnish a 
good substitute for the ham-omelette or frizzled beef. 
Another addition to our entremets might be availed 
of in the "jelly mushroom," Hydnum, or Tremelodon 
gelatinosum, which is not described in this volume. 
It is eaten raw, either plain or with milk and sugar, 
and is said to be of most delicate flavor. 

31 flushroom Salad 

According to Cooke, the Beefsteak mushroom 
before mentioned is employed as an entremet in Vien- 
na, the fresh fungus being cut in thin slices and eat- 
en as a salad. The fresh, crisp young Russula mush- 
rooms thus served also furnish a very appetizing 
relish, with the usual varieties of dressing as in the 
various sauces, mayonnaise, French dressing, etc. 
The Polyporus snlpkureus having been boiled and 
allowed to cool might furnish a deceptive " chicken " 
salad. Doubtless other species of mushrooms Cla- 
varia, for example would lend themselves acceptably 
to this method of serving. Cordier recommends this 
latter species as " appetizing even when raw." 

32 Pickled flushrooms 

Select the mushrooms in the round-button condi- 
tion and before expansion ; immerse them in cold 
water for a few moments, then drain them ; cut off the 



32O EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

stalks, and gently rub off the outer skin with a moist 
flannel dipped in salt ; boil the vinegar, adding to 
each quart two ounces of salt, half a nutmeg grated, 
a dram of mace, and an ounce of white pepper-corns; 
put the mushrooms into the vinegar for ten minutes 
over the fire ; then pour the whole into small jars, 
taking care that the spices are equally divided ; let 
them stand a day, then cover them. 



33 flushroom Catsup 

Large quantities of mushrooms of various species 
are annually consumed in Europe in the manufacture 
of catsup. Following is one of the many favorite 
foreign recipes : 

Place the Agarics, of as large a size as you can 
procure, layer by layer in a deep pan ; sprinkle each 
layer with a little salt; the next day stir them well 
several times, so as to mash and extract their juice; on 
the third day strain off the liquor, measure and boil 
for ten minutes, and then to every pint of liquor add 
half an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce 
of bruised ginger-root, a blade of mace, a clove or two, 
and a teaspoonful of mustard-seed ; boil again for 
half an hour, put in two or three bay-leaves, and set 
aside until quite cold ; pass through a strainer, and 
bottle; cork well and dip the ends of the bottle in 
melted resin or beeswax ; a very little Chili vinegar 
is an improvement, and some add a glass of port- 
wine or of ale to every bottle. Care should be taken 
that the spice is not so abundant as to overpower 
the true flavor of the mushrooms. 



RECIPES 321 

34 Dried Mushrooms 

It will often happen in a normal fungus season that 
the production will exceed the possibility of consump- 
tion, and thousands of pounds of delicious mushrooms 
will thus be left to decay in their haunts. 

The process of drying mushrooms for winter use is 
in most extensive practice by the peasantry of Europe 
and Britain, who thus find an all-the-year- round de- 
pendence upon mushroom diet. 

With most species this process of desiccation is so 
simple that it is recommended, in the confident belief 
that, once tried, the winter mushroom will hereafter af- 
ford a frequent relish upon many a board and will well 
repay the slight trouble in their summer preparation. 

In most of the Agarics notably the Campestris, 
Procerus, Champignon, Russula, Chantarelle simply 
threading on strings and hanging in the sun and 
wind, or festooned above the kitchen range, will be 
sufficient to reduce them to complete dryness in a 
few hours. Indeed, some of these, such as the Pro- 
cerus and Champignon, dry spontaneously in their 
haunts, and may be thus gathered. 

In the instances of more fleshy fungi, such as the 
Boleti, Polyporei, and Coprinus, more rapid desicca- 
tion is necessary. By exposing them in the sun on 
a tin roof or absorbent paper the moisture is rapidly 
evaporated. They might also be suspended above 
the kitchen range in a wire basket and thus quickly 
dried. In Boleti the drying is facilitated by the 
removal of the whole pore layer, which is easily sep- 
arated from the cap. 



322 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The Clavaria and Morel are very simply dried, even 
in ordinary house temperature. Strung upon threads 
and suspended in the sun or near the fire they would 
very quickly be reduced to absolute dryness. 

Mushrooms thus treated seem to retain their aro- 
ma; in Procerus, Clavaria, Morel, Helvella, and " Fairy- 
rino-" beingr intensified above that of their moist con- 

O O 

dition and most appetizing. 

The desiccated specimens should be kept in a dry 
place, with good circulation of air, or enclosed in her- 
metically sealed tin boxes ; in the latter case being 
occasionally examined to insure against mould by 
possible absorption of moisture. 

When desired for use they are simply soaked in 
tepid water, which, by gradual absorption, causes the 
specimens occasionally to assume almost their orig- 
inal dimensions and juicy character, when they should 
be treated as recommended for the fresh mushrooms. 



For the benefit of the vegetarian, or the curiously 
or experimentally inclined, I append a few sugges- 
tions apropos of a menu a la mode, in which the fun- 
gus might be employed with good effect as a rival to 
the familiar established prandial delights. Each se- 
lection is numbered with reference to its particular 
descriptive or suggestive paragraph in the preceding 
pages of the chapter. 

A feast based upon these recommendations, re- 
enforced with appropriate adjuncts the " mother "- 
born vinegar, the fungus -leavened loaf, the fungus- 
foaming beaker- -might cumulatively prove a per- 
suasive plea for the creed of vegetarianism. 



c 



o 



en a 



Potagco 

Consomme de boeuf clair, 22 
Potage a la puree d'huitres, i, n, 13 
Potage a la puree de boeuf, 22 
Potage a la puree de volatile, 24 

JJoissons 

Cotelettes de poisson Sauce aux 

champignons, 13 
Escalope de poisson, 13 

Ijors-b 1 oeiuires 

Croquettes de ris de veau, 24 
Bouchees au poulet, 24 

ttdciu'e 

Filet de bceuf aux champignons, 22, 23 

(Entrees 

Omelette aux jambon, 30 

Rognons d'agneau, n 

Pate de biftecks, 22 

Beignettes d'huitres, 13, 23 

Huitres en curry, 23 

Petits vols-au-vent d'huitres ou bou- 

chees d'huitres, 13, 23 
Fricassee de poulet, 24 

(Entremets 

Salad de Russula au mayonnaise, 31 

Salad de Fistulina, 31 

Salad de Clavaria, 31 

Salad de volaille, 31 

Dessert 

Omelette souffle au gelee, 30 
Pouding souffle, 30 
Gelee de Hydnum, 30 



cJoibUoc/zapky 



AMERICAN 



1. Geological and Natural History Survey of North Carolina. 
Part III. Botany. Containing a catalogue of the indigenous and 
naturalized plants of the State. By Rev. M. A. Curtis, D.D., etc. 
Raleigh, 1867. (Out of print.) 

2. Mushrooms of America. Edible and Poisonous. Edited by 
Julius A. Palmer, Jr. Numerous colored plates. Published by 
L. Prang & Co., Boston, 1885. 

3. About Mushrooms. A Guide to the Study of Esculent and 
Poisonous Fungi. A collection of various articles upon the sub- 
ject. By Julius A. Palmer. Lee & Shepard, Boston, 1894. 

4. Boleti of the United States. A catalogue containing full de- 
scriptions of one hundred and eight species. (No illustrations.) 
By Professor Charles H. Peck, State Botanist, State Hall, Albany, 
N. Y. Annual Report of the State Botanist issued by the Board 
of Regents, Albany University. 

Professor Peck has also published a series of papers on " Edi- 
ble Mushrooms" in The Country Gentleman, of Albany, N. Y. A 
new work from him on this subject is in preparation. 

5. Pacific Coast Fungi. By Dr. H. W. Harkness and Justin P. 
Moore. 1880. A catalogue. 

6. 77/6' Deadly and Minor Poisons of Mushrooms. By Charles 
Mcllvaine. Reprint from the Therapeutic Gazette. George S. 
Davis, Detroit, Mich. Quoted in present volume. Captain Mc- 
llvaine is also the author of several popular articles on the subject 
of esculent mushrooms which have appeared in various journals 
and magazines. 

7. Fungi Caroliniani Exsiccati. Five Fasciculi, one hundred 
specimens in each. By H. W. Ravenel, of Aiken, S. C. John 
Russell, Charleston. 

8. Bulletins of United States Department of Agriculture, Wash- 
ington, D. C. By Thomas M. Taylor, Chief of the Division of 
Microscopy. Washington, D. C., 1893-94. Five issues, with many 
colored plates of various specimens, both edible and poisonous ; 
also full directions for cultivation of the common mushroom. 



326 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

9. Notes for Mushroom Eaters. By W. G. Farlow. Pamphlet. 
Illustrated. Garden & Forest Publishing Co., New York. 

ENGLISH 

10. Illustrations of British Mycology. (Hand-painted.) By Mrs. 
T. J. Hussey. Reeve Brothers, London, 1847. An admirable 
work, the pioneer treatise in Great Britain ; rare ; reference copies 
only in prominent libraries. 

11. Esculent Funguses of England. By Rev. Dr. C. D. Bad ham. 
With twenty colored plates. 8vo. L. Reeve Co., London. 1870. 

12. A Plain and Easy Account of the British Fungi ; with De- 
scriptions of the Esculent and Poisonous Species, Details of the 
Principles of Scientific Classification, and a Tabular Arrangement 
of Orders and Genera. By M. C. Cooke, M.A., LL.D. With 
twenty-four colored plates. R. Hardwick, Piccadilly, London, 
1871. An excellent, inexpensive, and popular hand-book. 

13. Outlines of British Fungology. Containing Characters of 
above a Thousand Species of Fungi, and a Complete List of all 
that have been described as Natives of the British Isles. By 
Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. Lovell Reeve, Henrietta 
Street, Covent Garden, London, 1860. Beautifully illustrated 
with twenty-four lithographic hand -colored plates by W. Fitch, 
each plate presenting several species, and including a number of 
the esculent. 

14. Mushrooms and Toadstools: How to Distinguish Easily the 
Differences between Edible and Poisonous Fungi. With two 
large sheets containing figures of twenty-nine edible and thirty- 
one poisonous species drawn the natural size, and colored from 
living specimens. By Worthington T. Smith, F.L.S. 2d edition, 
R. Hardwick, 192 Piccadilly, London, 1875. 

15. A Selection of the Eatable Funguses of Great Britain. Edited 
by Robert Hogg, LL.D., and Geo. W. Johnson, F.R.H.S. Nu- 
merous excellent hand-colored plates. 

1 6. Fungi: Their Nature and Uses. By M. C. Cooke, M.A., 
LL.D. ; edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. In 
" International Scientific Series." D. Appleton & Co., N. Y. 
A very full and condensed epitome of the science of fungology. 

17. Hand-book of British Fungi. By M. C. Cooke. 2 vols. 
Macmillan & Co., London, 1871. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 327 

1 8. Illustrations of British Fungi. Atlas to accompany above. 
By M. C. Cooke. Williams & Norgate, London, 1889. 

19. Scottish Cryptogamic Flora. 6 vols. By R. R. Greville, 1823. 

20. Fungi-hunters" Guide. By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

21. Elementary Text-book. By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

22. British Fungi. By John Stevenson. William Blackwood & 
Sons. London, 1886. 

23. Mushroom Culture. By W. Robinson. F. Warne & Co., 
London, 1870. Containing full directions for the cultivation of 
mushrooms ; also an extended chapter upon common wild species. 
Illustrated with wood-cuts, numerous recipes, etc. 

FRENCH 

24. Plantes Usuelles. Par Joseph Roches. Vol. IV., containing 
the Edible and Poisonous Fungi : also his Histoire des Cham- 
pignons Comestibles et Te'ne-neux. Elegantly illustrated. Paris, 
1838. 

25. Les Champignons: Histoire, Description, Culture, Usages 
des Especes Comestibles, Vene'neuses, Suspectes, etc. Par F. S. 
Cordier. With sixty chromo - lithographs. 4th edition. Paris, 
1876. 

26. Histoire Naturelle des Champignons. By G. Sicard. C. H. 
Delagrave, Paris, 1883. Numerous colored plates. Rare. Copy 
in Astor Library, N. Y. 

27. Botanique Cryptogamique, ou Histoire des Families Naturelles 
des Plantes Inferieures. Par J. Payer, Docteur es Sciences, etc. 
With 1105 engravings on wood. Victor Masson, Paris, 1850. 

28. Des Champignons. (Orfila Prize Essay.) By Emile Boudier. 
J. B. Balliere, Paris, 1866. 

29. Champignons. By L. M. Gautier. J. B. Balliere et Fils. 
Paris, 1884. 

30. Figures Peintes de Champignons. By Captain L. Lucand. 
Friedlander & Son, Berlin, 1882. (Reference copy at Massachu- 
setts Horticultural Society.) 

31. Les Champignons. By J. Moyen. J. Rothschild, Paris, 1889. 

32. Nouvelle Flore. By J. Constantin and Leon Dufour. Paul 
Dupont, Paris, 1891. 




ACKNOWLEDGMENTS, 40. 

Agaricacecc, order of the, 77. 

Agaricini, 75-178 ; botanical characters 
of, 79. 

Agarics, edible, 80-178 ; Curtis's list 
of, 9-12. 

Agaricus, 43, 44 ; vegetation of, 44-47, 
85-92, 107 ; botanical characters of, 
77-79, 283. 

Agaricus, species of : Ainanita, see 
Amanita ; arvensis, 85, 91 ; epicu- 
rean opinions of, 94 ; campestris, 
9, 13, 21, 24, 80-95, 307, 308, 321 ; 
the " Mushroom," 1 6-2 2 ; variations 
in, 89-93 ; spore-print of, 283 
candicans, 86; euosimts, 147 
fitsipes, 299 ; -gambosus, 95-101 to 
cook, 313; heterophylla, see Rus- 
sula ; Marasmius oreades, 101-108; 
melleits, 10,28; orcella, 300; os- 
treatus, 10, 26, 141-148, 303, 307 ; 
frati'iisis, 91 ; ftvcents, 10, 86, 87, 
113-119, 312, 321; rttl'cr, 300; 
ultnariiis, 10, 26, 27, 148-154, 303, 



312; vaporarius , 91 ; villaticus,qi ; 

z'irescens, 300. See, also, Russula, 

Coprinus, Lactarius, Chantarelle, and 

Marasmius. 

Agrippina, victim of Amanita, 59. 
./ inanita, genus of, readily identified, 2, 

23, 74, 273. 
Botanical characters of, 29, 33, 41- 

5i, 79. 273- 

- The cup or volva in, 29, 33, 47, 48, 
57,74,273. 

- Vegetation and development of, 44, 
45, 74 ; the veil or shroud of, 48. 

- Fatalities from eating, 2, 15, 29, 60 ; 
a dangerous enemy, 15, 23, 29 ; " sil- 
ver test " upon, 26 ; effect of salt and 
heat upon, 29. 

- Poison of, 48, 60 ; chemical nature 
of poison of, 48, 61 ; Czar Alexis, 52 ; 
Agrippina, 59 ; intoxication from, 59, 
60 ; dipsomaniacs, 59, 60 ; isolation 
of poison of, 6 1 ; absorption of poison 
of, by contact and odor, 30, 69 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of poison of, 



330 



INDEX 



38,39; antidote for poison of, 61-68; 
report of a case of poisoning by, 63- 
66 ; poison of, extracted by vinegar, 

7i. 

Amanita, Poisonous species of : ver- 
nns, 17, 25, 51 ; muscariiis, 51, 73 ; 
spore-print of, 289, 291; phalloides, 

5i, 74- 

- Edible species of, 73 ; Cusarea, 
rtibescens, strobiliformis, 9, 12, 48. 

Amanitine, 60 ; antidote, 62. 

Alexis, Czar, victim of Amanita, 52. 

America and Europe, comparative ap- 
preciation of fungi in, 299. 

American and European fungi identi- 
cal, 12. 

American mycophagists, 8, 9, 15. 

Antidotes for mushroom poisoning, 62, 
67, 68. 

Ants attacked by fungi, 295. 

Asci in fungi, 256. 

Ascomycetes, 256. 

Asiatic Russia, Amanita dipsomaniacs 
of, 59- 

BACTERIUM bacillus, 7, 8. 

Badham, Dr. C. D., quoted, xii. , 12, 

13, 40, 177, 189, 237, 246, 299, 301, 

306, 310, 316. Bibliography, No. 

n, 326. 

Baked mushrooms, 311-313. 
Basket for gathering mushrooms, 36. 
^'Beefsteak" mushroom, n, 27, 213- 

217, 33 ; to cook, 314 ; as salad, 

3I9- 

Bees and wasps, 36. 

Beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Belladonna. See Atropine. 

Berkeley, Rev. M. J., variations in 
Campestris, 40, 91 ; quoted, 107, 237, 
246, 294, 301. Bibliography, Nos. 
13 and 16, 326. 

Bibliography American, 325; Eng- 
lish, 326 ; French, 327. 

Bitter Boletus, 208. 

Blights, 7. 



Blue mould, 78. 

Blue-stain Boleti, 196. 

Boleti, 182-213 ; botanical characters 
of, 181-184, 285 ; hawk fed upon, 
302 ; fritters of, 314 ; soup of, 314 ; 
to dry, 321. 

Boletus, characters of, 182 ; various 
edible, 10, 26, 182-213 ', spore-print 
of, 285. 

Boletus, alveolatus, 183, 201, 208 ; 
castanens, 10 ; chrysenteron, 195- 
2O I ; collinitus, 10 ; cyanescens, 
201, 207 ; cone-like, 202 ; ednlis, 
10, 13, 16, 18, 189, 190, 300 ; artificial 
cultivation of, 86 ; crimson, 213 ; 
elegans, lo ; f elk us, 207, 208-2 1 3 ; 
flavidus, 10 ; -granulatus, 10 ; 
Iittcus, 10 ; satanas, 207, 208 ; 
scalar, 10, 191-195 ; subtomentosits, 
10, 26, 183, 195 ; blue stain of, 196, 
2OI, 207 ; strobilomyccs, 202-207 ; 
spore-print of, 281 ; rersipellis, 10. 

Botanical discrimination, 31, 32. 

discrimination of Amanita. See 
Amanita. 

Boudier, Emile. Bibliography, No. 28, 

327. 
Bovista nigrescens, 10. 

plumbea, 10. 
Broiled mushrooms, 308. 

Btibbola maggiore. See Pasture Mush- 
room. 
Bulbosine, 60. 

CAMPESTRIS. See Agaricus. 
Cantharellus, cibarius, 10, 27, 172- 

178, 300; aumntiacus, 178; to 

cook, 310; drying of, 321. 
Caterpillar fungi, 295. 
Catsup, Mushroom, 320. 
Champignon "Fairy-Ring," 27, 87, 

95; to cook, 309 ; dried, 321. 

Poisonous, 108, 113. 
Chantarelle. See Cantharellus. 
" Chef a la mode," the, 305. 
Chemical analysis of fungi, 14, 302. 



INDEX 



I 



Chestnut-burr fungus, 294. 

Chestnut tongue. See Fistulina. 

Chicken flavor in mushrooms, 303, 316. 

Chinese caterpillar fungus, 296. 

Cicada fungus, 295. 

Classification of fungi, 77, 78. 

Claudius, Emperor, poisoned, 59. 

(\\iriiriei, 231, 247-256. 

Clavaria, Various, 10, n; amethys- 
tina, fastigiata, jiava, nigosa, stricta, 
iinibrina, 255 ; l>ot>-ytis, 256 ; for- 
mosa, 247; to cook, 317; used as 
salad, 319 ; to dry, 322. 

Club fungi. See Clavaria. 

Cogomelos. See Pasture Mushroom. 

Colored plates of the book, 39. 

Coniomycetes, 78. 

Consomme from mushrooms, 315. 

Cooke, Rev. Dr. M. C., 40, 59, 214, 
237, 273, 295, 306, 307, 313, 315. 
Bibliography, Nos. 12, 16, 17, 326 ; 
No. 18, 327. 

Cooking fungi, 72, 306-322. 

Copri nits, 87; to dry, 321 ; atramen- 
tariits, n, 27, 28, 161, 163 ; coma- 
tits, ii, 87, 154-160. 

Coral fungi. See Clavaria. 

Cordier, F. S., 246, 248, 306, 319. 
Bibliography, No. 25, 327. 

Correspondents, 2-6. 

Cortinariits castanetts, cinnaiiiomeus, 
z<iolaceus, n. 

Cosmopolitan fungi, 12. 

Coulemelle. See Pasture Mushroom. 

Crimson Boletus, 213. 

Cryptogamia, the, 7. 

Crystals on drying fungi, 227. 

Culinary "treatment" of fungi, 72, 
214, 304. 

Cultivation of mushrooms, 85, 86. Bib- 
liography, No. 8, 325 ; No. 23, 327. 

"Cup," the, in Amanita, 29, 33, 47, 
48, 57, 74, 273. 

Currie, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 

Curtis, Rev. M. A., pioneer American 
mycophagist, 9, 32, 40. 



Curtis's, Rev. M. A., list of edible mush- 
rooms, 9-12 ; quoted, 219, 245, 301, 
318. Bibliography, No. i, 325. 

Cystidiitin, the, 77, 256. 

DEADLY mushrooms and toadstools, 

2, 3, 43-7-1- 

Deaths by fungi, 43, 61. 

Decaying fungi, 6, 25, 30, 278. 

Delagrave, C. H. Bibliography, No. 
26, 327. 

Desiccation of fungi, 107, 119, 246, 262, 
321. 

Diagnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 38, 63-68. 

Doe-skin mushroom. See Hydniiin 
repandum. 

Dried fungi. See Desiccation of fungi. 

Dufour, J. Constantin and Leon. Bib- 
liography, No. 32, 327. 

Dust-like fungi, 78. 

ECONOMIC fungology, 7, 13, 14. 

Edible Amanita;, 9, 12, 73. 

Edible mushrooms, number of species, 
2, 7, 32, 60; list of, by Curtis, 9-12; 
popular tests for identification, 22, 
23; become poisonous from contact 
with Amanita, 70. 

Elm mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 148-154, 
303, 312. 

Elvellacei, 231. See Helvella. 

Emetic mushroom. See Russula. 

Epicurean perversity, 72. 

European and American fungi iden- 
tical, 12. 

European mycologists, 14, 326, 327. 

FAIRY-RING mushroom, 95, 101-108 ; 
cause of "ring," 102, 107 ; recipes for 
cooking, 107, 108; false or poison- 
ous, 108, 113. 

False Champignon, 108. 

Farlow, W. G. Bibliography, No. 9, 
326. 

" Fish mushroom," 154, 303, 312. 



INDEX 



Fist it Una hepatica, u, 26, 27, 213, 
299, 303; to cook, 314; as salad, 

3I9- 

Fly, Fungus attacking, 295. 

Fly-poison, Amanita, 27, 51, 52, 72. 
See Amanita nniscariiis. 

Food, Fungi as, 8, 13-15, 35, 221, 245, 
299-323. 

" Foxfire," 227. 

France, Fungus-eaters of, 14. 

Fried mushrooms, 313-318. 

Fries, Fungologist, 268. 

Fritters of fungi, 314, 318. 

Fungi. See, also. Toadstools, Mush- 
rooms, and Moulds. 

- by mail, 4, 5. 

- Chemical constituents of, 14, 302. 

- Classification of, 77, 78. 
-Common tests for "Edible," and 

their reputation, 17-21, 24-29. 

- Coral. See Clavaria. 

- Crystals on, 227. 

- Cultivation of, 85, 88. Bibliog- 
raphy, No. 8, 325 ; No. 23, 327. 

- Desiccation of, 119, 246, 262, 301, 
310, 321. 

- Economic, 7, 13. 

Edible. See Agaricus Boletus, 
Clavarei, Fistulina, Helvella, Morel, 
Mushroom, and Puff-balls. 

Fastidiousness in vegetation, 86-88, 
294. 

- Gill-bearing (Agarics), 78, 178. 

- Hawk fed upon, 302. 

- Hygrometric properties of, 119. 

- Insects infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36- 

33, 135- 

- List of works on, 325. 

- Medical, 277. 

- Menu for fungus repast, 323. 

- Miscellaneous, 231-274. 

- Mycelium, or spawn, of, 44, 45, 77. 
85, 88, 92, 107. 

- Number of species of, 6, 30, 60. 

- on caterpillars and chrysalids, 295. 

- on chestnut-burr, 294. 



Fungi on house-fly, 295. 

opposed to cultivation, 86-88. 
Ornamental forms of, 227. 

- Phosphorescent, 227. 

- Physiological features of, 15. 

Poisoning by, 2, 15, 29; diagnosis 
and treatment, 37 ; remedies, 38, 
39; intoxication from, 59; antidotes, 
62, 67, 68; report of poisoning case, 
63-66 ; poisoning by contact and 
odor, 69; edible species inoculated 
by contact, 70. 

Popular distrust of, 15, 21. 

- Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

Raw, eaten as salad, 248, 319. 

Recipes for cooking, 306-319. 

simulating animal food, 15, 30, 302. 

- Spores and Spore-print of, 277-296. 

- Study of, 7. 

- traditions and superstitions, 22, 23. 

- Vegetation of, 44, 47, 85-92, 107, 
294. 

Whims of habitat of, 294. 
Fungologists, Amateur, safe rules for, 

33- 
Fungus food in Europe and America, 

3, 13-15, 35, 299. 

gnats, flies, and beetles, 37. 

GASTEROMYCETES, 78. 

Gathering mushrooms, Rules for, 35,36. 

Gautier, Dr. M. L., 62. Bibliography, 

No. 29, 327. 

Germany, Fungus-eaters in, 14. 
Gill-bearing mushrooms, 75-178. 
Gnats infesting fungi, 37. 
Greville, R. R. Bibliography, No. 19, 

327- 
"Grubs" in fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135- 

HARKNESS, Dr. H. W. , 32, 245, 310. 
Bibliography, No. 5, 325. 

Hawk fed upon Boleti, 302. 

Hawthorne, Nathaniel, allusion to fun- 
gus phosphorescence, 228. 



INDEX 



333 



Hay, William I"). Bibliography, Nos. 
20, 21, 327. 

Heat destroys poison, 29, 72. 

Hedgehog mushroom. See Ilydnum. 

Helvetia crispa, n, 231, 261, 262 ; oth- 
er species, n ; recipes for cooking, 
262, 316; to dry, 322. 

Historical fungi, 43, 59, 60. 

Hogg, Robert, LL.D. Bibliography, 
No. 15, 326. 

Horse mushroom. See Agaricus ar- 
vensis. 

House-fly fungus, 295. 

Hungarian soup of Boleti, 314. 

Hussey, Mrs. T. J., 40, 306, 310, 311, 
315, 318. Bibliography, No. 10, 
326. 

Hydnei, 231-247; to cook, 310. 

Hydnitm,yx>, 307; caput-meduscc, II, 
27, 238-243; repandum, II, 28, 232- 
238 ; riift-sfciis, 237, 238 ; coral- 
Lndes, 245; -gelatinosum, 319. 

Various edible species of, 11 ; to 
cook, 246. 

Hygrometric fungus, 119. 
Hygrophorus eburneus and pratensis, 

ii. 

Hymenium of fungi, 78. 
Jlymenomycetes, 78. 
Hyphomycetes, 78. 

IDENTIFICATION of fungi, 31. 

Idiosyncrasy, 30, 61. 

Indigestibility of certain species, 

30. 

Inky mushroom, 28. See Coprinus. 
Insects attacked by fungi, 295. 

infesting fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36, 38, 

135- 

Intoxication by Amanita, 59. 
Introduction, I. 
Italy, Fungus-eaters of, 14, 86. 

JELLY-LIKE mushroom, 319. 
Johnson, Geo. W. Bibliography, No. 
15, 326. 



KAMCHATKA, Amanita dipsomaniacs 

of, 59, 60. 

Ketchup, Mushroom. See Catsup. 
Koppe, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 

LACTARIUS, Poisonous, 61. 
Lactarius, Various edible species of, 1 1 ; 

deliciosus, 28, 166-171, 300, 311; 

piferatits,2&, 171; volemitm, 171. 
Lambs' kidneys, Flavor of, in fungi, 

300, 311. 

Letters to the author, 4. 
Liver mushroom. See Fistulina. 
Lucand, L. Bibliography, No. 30, 327. 
Luminous fungi, 227. 
Lycoperdacetz, 267. 
Lycoperdon. See Puff-ball. 
bovisla, n. 
- structure of, 270. 

MAILING fungus specimens, 4. 

Marasmins, scorodoneiis, r I ; oreades, 
ii, 101-108; wens, loS-iii; yV- 
ronatits, 109-113. 

Mcllvaine, Captain Charles, 32; rule 
regarding edibility of fungi, 35 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 39, 40, 62 ; fastidious- 
ness of fungi, 86, 184, 208. Bibli- 
ography, No. 6, 325. 

Meadow Mushroom. See Agaricus 
cantpcstris. 

Medical and Surgical Reporter quoted, 
62. 

Medusa Mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Menu of mushrooms, 323. 

Microbes, 7. 

Microscopic fungi, 7. 

Mildew, 7, 78. 

Milky mushroom. See Lactarius. 

Miscellaneous fungi, 231-274. 

Mock oyster soup, 306. 

Moore, Justin P. Bibliography, No. 

5, 325- 

Moniteur Scientifique, quotation from, 
61. 



INDEX 



Merchella escnhnta. See Morel. 

caroliniana, 12. 

Morel, 12, 231, 256; to cook, 316; to 

dry, 322. 
Mortality in mushroom poisoning, 

43- 

Moss-mushroom, 245. 
"Mother," 7. 
Moulds, 7, 78. 

Moyen, J. Bibliography, No. 31, 327. 
" Muscarine " poison, 60. 
"Mushroom" and "Toadstool," 16- 

21. 

Mushrooms. See Toadstools, Agari- 
cus, Boletus, Polyporei, Fistulina, 
and Fungi. 

- a la creme, 308. 

a la Provei^al, 308. 

Analysis of, 289-291. 

Baked, 311-313. 

Basket for, 36. 

- Bibliography, No. 8,325; No. 23,327. ' 

- Broiled, 308. 

- by mail, 4. 

- catsup, 320. 

- Chemical nature of, 14, 61. 

- Chestnut-burr, 294. 

- Classification of, 77, 78. 

Cosmopolitan types of, 12. 

- Cultivation of, 85, 86. Bibliogra- 
phy, No. 23, 327. 

- Drying of, for food, 119, 246, 262, 
301, 310, 321. 

- Edible, 8, 13-15, 32. 

- Edible species : plentiful supply 
f> 1 3> 35. 33 ! Beefsteak, n, 27; 
Coral, see Clavaria ; Elm, 10 ; 
" Fairy-ring," 95, 101 ; False Fairy- 
ring, 108, 109; Horse, 85, 91-95; 
Inky, n, 20, 28, 88 ; Meadow, see 
Agarictis campestris ; Milky, see 
Lactarius ; Moss, 245 ; Oyster, see 
Agaricus ostreattis ; Pasture, 10, 13, 
113; Russulse, 119-141; Spine- 
bearing, see Hydnum ; St. George's, 
95-101. 



Mushrooms, Fastidiousness of most 
species of, 86, 294. 

- Fried, 313, 317. 

Fritters of, 314, 317. 

- Insects infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135- 

- Large specimens of, 92. 

- List of works on, 325. 

- Menu, 323. 

Melting. See Coprinus. 

Milky. See Lactarius. 

- Moss. See Hydnum. 

- Mycelium or spawn of, and vegeta- 
tion of, 44, 45, 77, 85-88, 92, 107. 

- Number of edible species of, 2, 7, 9, 
32, 60; identification of, 2, 31; Cur- 
tis's list of, 9-12; nourishing prop- 
erties of, 14 ; chemical simulation of 
animal food by, 15, 30, 302; popular 
tests for detecting, 22, 23; refuta- 
tion of same, 24-29 ; desiccation of, 
119, 321; recipes for cooking, 306 
322. 

- Number of general species of, 6. 

- Pickled, 319. 

pie, 312. 

- Poisonous species of, 2, 15, 17, 43- 
74 ; deadly species of, 2, 15, 43-74 ; 
poison by contact with, 30, 69; vine- 
gar, sweet oil, and whiskey, 39 ; diag- 
nosis and treatment of poisoning, 
39,63-66; historical poisoning by, 43, 
59, 60; fatalities from, 43, 61 ; intoxi- 
cation from, 59, 60; poison discrim-^ 
inated, 61 ; antidotes, 62, 67, 68 ; 
report of a poisoning case, 63-66 ; 
harmless mushrooms inoculated from 
poisonous, 70 ; salt, vinegar, and 
heat, 29, 39, 71, 72. See, also, Ama- 
nita, A'ltssitla ctnetica, Boletus, and 
False Champignon. 

Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

- Roast, 311. 

Rules for gathering, 36, 70. 

- Rural authorities on, 16-22. 
salad, 319. 



INDEX 



335 



Mushroom soup, 306, 307, 323. 
spawn. See Mycelium. 

- spores. See Spores and Spore- 
prints. 

-Stewed, 307, 308-311, 315-317. 

tube. See Polyporei. 

Testing new species of, for edibility, 

33- 

Whims of habitat of, 294. 
J/r<v/V.f fungi, 77. 

Mycology and mycophagy, 3, 4, 7, 8. 

- Medical and economic, 7, 8, 13-15, 

35- 277- 
Mycophagists of America, 8, 9. 

- Amateur, safe rules for, 38. 

NERO, 59; poisonous mushrooms used 

by, 43- 

Night, Fungi luminous by, 227 
Nourishing properties of mushrooms, 

14- 

OAK-TONGUE fungus. See Fistulina. 
Odor of Amanita poisonous, 69. 
Omelet, Mushroom, 277, 278, 318. 
Orcella, Agaric, 300. 
Oyster mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 141-148; 
to cook, 303, 311, 315. 

- flavor in fungi, 237, 247,. 300, 303, 
307, 310, 312. 

P achy ma cocas, n. 

Palmer, Julius A., quoted: "Silver 
test," 25, 32, 40; on Amanita poison, 
61, 69-71, 184, 207 ; on mushroom 
food, 303, 306, 311. Bibliography, 
Nos. 2, 3, 325. 

Pasture, or parasol, mushroom, 9, 13, 
So, 113. 

Paulet, 306, 314. 

Paxillus ini'1'liitns, n. 

Payer, J. Bibliography, No. 27, 327. 

Peck, Prof. Charles H., 32, 40, 182, 
237, 246. Bibliography, No. 4, 325. 

Persoon, 306, 316. 

Phosphorescence in fungi, 227. 



Pickled mushrooms, 319. 
Pie of mushrooms, 312, 315. 

Plates of the book, 39. 

Pliny on mushroom "tests," 25 ; on 
poisonous mushrooms, 43, 59 ; on 
edible mushrooms, 298. 

Poison-cup. See Amanita. 

Poison of Amanita, 43, 61 ; antidote, 
68 ; poisoning by contact and odor, 
69. 

Poisoning by fungi : Diagnosis and 
treatment, 38, 63, 68 ; vinegar as 
an antidote, 38, 71 ; antidote, 62, 
68 ; Amanita, 2, 15, 43-74 ; poison- 
ous species identified, 2, 15, 61 ; 
popular poison "tests" refuted, 
17, 21-29 ; poisoning by contact, 
30, 69. 

Poisons, fatal and minor, 2, 15, 17, 29, 
30, 61. 

Polyporei, 78, 181-228; to dry, 321. 

Polypoms, various edible species of, u ; 
sulphureus, n, 219, 303; to cook, 
316; botanical character of , 181-184, 
285. 

Popular discrimination between " toad- 
stool " and "mushroom," 16-22; 
popular distrust of fungi, 15. 

Pore-bearing mushrooms. See Boletus, 
Polyporei, and Fistulina. 

Procerus mushroom, 10 ; pie of, 312. 

Puff-ball fungi, u, 13, 27, 78, 231, 267, 
2 99I gemniatuni, 268; saccatuin, 268; 
giganteum, 268, 318; dissemination 
of spores of, 268, 277-280 ; medical 
use of, 277 ; as food, 277, 318 ; to 
cook, 318. 

"Punk," 37, 181. 

Puree of mushrooms, 307. 

RAGOUT of mushrooms, 309, 316. 
Ravenel, H. W. Bibliography, No. 7, 

325- 
Recipes for cooking fungi, 72, 306- 

322. 
" Ring" in mushrooms, 48, 85, 95. 



336 



INDEX 



Robinson, W., 306, 312, 313. Bib- 
liography, No. 23, 327. 

Roques, Joseph, 237, 306, 310, 311. 
Bibliography, No. 24, 327. 

Rove-beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Rules for the venturesome, 33. 

Russia, Fungus-eaters in, 14 ; fly Ama- 
nita in, 29. 

Russitla, 12, 13, 18, 26, 28; lepida, 12, 
127; ahitacea, 12, 133; virescens, 
12, 88, 120, 300 ; emetica, 25, 27, 28, 
61, 120, 122,136-141; heterophylla, 
134, 300 ; ruber, 300. 

J?iessti/&,iig; opposed to cultivation of, 
88; insects infesting, 135; to bake, 
311; as salad, 319; to dry, 321. 

Rust, 7. 

Rustic fungology, 18-22. 

SALAD of mushrooms, 319. 

Salt as an antidote, 39, 72. 

" Salt test" of mushrooms, 23, 29. 

Scaly mushrooms. See Amanita, Aga- 

ricus procerus, and Boletus strobi- 

loides. 
Schmiedeberg, Dr., on Amanita poison, 

60. 
" Scotch Bonnet." See Ag arictis pro- 

cerns. 

" Sep." See Boletus ediilis. 
" Seven Sisters of Sleep," by Rev. Dr. 

M. C. Cooke, 59. 
Shadle, Dr. J. E., 62. 
Shaggy-mane mushrooms, u, 13; rus- 
tic appreciation of, 19, 27, 28. See 

Coprimis contains. 
" Shroud" in Amanita. 48. 
Silver, Discoloration of, as a " test," 23. 
Smith, Worthington T., 40, 306, 307, 

309, 314. Bibliography, No. 14, 326. 
Smuts, 7. 

Socket in Amanita. See Volva. 
Souffle of puff-balls, 318. 
Sparassis, crispa, 12 ; liiminosa, 12. 
"Spawn," or mycelium, of fungi, 44, 

45, 77, So, 85-88, 92, 107. 



Specimens by mail, 5. 

Spiders attacked by fungi, 295. 

Spine-bearing mushrooms, n, 27. See 
Hydnum. 

Spore-prints from mushrooms, 44, 277- 
296 ; from Amanita iniiscarins, 287, 
289 ; from Boletus, 285, 287 ; from 
Agaricus campestris, 283. 

Spore surface, or hymenium, 78, 182. 

Spores of fungi, 79, 87, 182, 268, 277- 
296; number of, 279; buoyancy of, 
278-293; various colors of, 287; va- 
rious forms of, 293. 

Sporidiifera, 77, 231, 256. 

Sporifera, 77, 78, 231, 256. 

Staphylinus beetles infesting mush- 
rooms, 37. 

Stevenson, John. Bibliography, No. 
22, 327. 

Stew of fungi, 307, 308-311, 315-317. 

St. George's mushroom, 95-101. 

Strobilomyces, 202. 

Styptic, Puff-balls used as, 277. 

Sulphur mushroom, 219, 303; to cook, 
316 ; as a salad, 319. 

" Sweetbreads" in fungi, 300, 303. 

Sweet-oil treatment for mushroom poi- 
soning, 39. 

TAYLOR, Thomas M. Bibliography, 
No. 8, 325. 

Teeth-bearing mushrooms. See Hyd- 
num. 

Tertullian on toadstools, 17. 

Testing new species for edibility, 33. 

"Tests" or "proofs" for the detec- 
tion of poisonous species, 17, 21-29. 
Therapeutic Gazette, quotation from, 

39- 

Thore, Dr., quoted, 86. 

Thread-like fungi, 78. 

"Tinder," 37, 181. 
'Toadstool" and " Mushroom," 16- 
21, 36; popular discrimination of, 16- 
24; popular tests for their discrimina- 
tion and their refutation, 17-22, 24- 



INDEX 



337 



29. See Mushroom, Fungi, Agaricus, 

Amanita, Boletus, Polyporei, Morel, 

Clavarin, IMvella. 
" Toadstools," 181. 
"Touchwood," 37, 181. 
Tremclla mesentcrica, 12. 
Tremelodon gelatinosum, 319. 
Ttichogastres, 231. See Puff-balls. 
Tube mushrooms. See Polyporei, 

Boletus, and Fistulina. 

VEGETARIAN, Menu for the, 304, 323. 
Veil in mushrooms, 48, 60, 85. 
Vigier, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 



Vinegar as an antidote for mushroom 

poisoning, 39, 71. 
Vitadini, 318. 
Volva in Amanita, Importance of, in 

classification, 29, 33, 48, 77. 

WARTY mushrooms. See Amanita, 
Pasture Mushroom, and Strobylo- 
myces. 

Wasps and bees, 36. 
- Fungus attacking, 295. 

Whiskey in mushroom poisoning, 39. 

Wormy specimens of fungi, 25, 30, 34, 
36-38, 135- 




^fK^m , 



i lv -Si\' 

v< B $Mss 

,-^ ::&>-** 

' ' 1 p 

, --^*- ~> ./trK\ i' u> e-' / ^% - - 

-- Mrv 5 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



' Oux Sc/itlc cM.iib-(Corni 




The Deadly "Amanita'. 




)ur 

How in D 










Our Edible 
Toadstools and Mushrooms 

and 

How to Distinguish Them 

A Selection of Thirty Native Food Varieties 
Easily Recognisable by their Marked Indi- 
vidualities, with Simple Rules for the 
Identification of Poisonous Species 



By W. HAMILTON GIBSON 



WITH THIRTY COLORED PLATES 
AND FIFTY-SEVEN OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE AUTKI 



NEW YORK AND LONDON 

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 

1899 







Cr '// 



o ... 



THE WORKS OF W. HAMILTON GIBSON. 

ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR. 






SHARP EYES. A Rambler's Calendar among Birds, Insects, and 
Flowers. 8vo, $5 00. 

HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS; or, Sauntering* in New England. 
4to, $7 50. 

STROLLS BY STARLIGHT AND SUNSHINE. Royal Kvo. $3 50. 

HAPPY HUNTING-GROUNDS. A Tribute to the Woods and 
Fields. 4to, $7 50. 

PASTORAL DAYS; or, Memories of a New England Year. 
4to, $7 50. 

CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS, and the Tricks of Trapping and 
Trap-making. i6mo, $1 00. 

NKW YORK AND LONDON: 
HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS. 



" r 






    

   



    

  : 



  * . ** 



*-^-- 



_ t 






    






 
 



*  . 



  



 * 
  * 









261158 

/ 



Copyright, 1895, by Harper & Brothers. 



All rights reserved. 



^xiicotiovv 



& 



icaduu 



unit *&. CUltaCo K^ott^U- 
C/OlturtWrvtCL 



" For those who do hunger after the earthlie 
excrescences called mushrooms."  Gerarde. 




C. The Deadly "Amanita" Frontispiece 

!. Mycelium, and early vegetation of a mushroom ... 45 

). Amanita vern us development 49 

(. Agarkus (Amanita) muscarius 55 

;. Agaricus campestris 83 

i. Agaricus campestris various forms of 89 

'. Agaricus gambosus oy 

f. Marasmius oreades. "Fairy-ring" 105 

i. Poisonous Champignons. M. units M. peronatus . . .111 

'. Agaricus procerus 117 

. Agaricus (Russula) virescens 123 

:. Edible Russul*. R. beltropbrtlaR. alutaetoR. ttpida . 131 

. Russula emetica 139 

. Agaricus ostreatus 145 

. Agaricus ulmarius 151 

>. Coprinus comatus 157 

. Coprinus atramentarius 163 

> Lactarius deliciosus 169 

'. Cantharellus cibarius 175 

. Boletus eduiis 187 

. Boletus scaber ig3 



LIST OF PLATES 

22. Edible Boleti. B. stiblomeulosnsB. cbrvstuttron .... 199 
2). Strobilomyces strobilaceus 205 

24. Suspicious Boleti. B.felleitsB. aheolalm 211 

25. Fistulina hepatic a 217 

26. Polyporus sulphureus 22; 

27. Hydnum repandum 23; 

28. Hydnum caput-medusie 241 

29. Hydnum caput- medusa habitat 243 

30. Clavaria formosa 251 

ji. Various forms of Clavaria 253 

32. Morchella esculent;* 259 

33. Helvetia crispa 265 

34. A group of Puff-balls 271 

35. Spore-surface and spore-print of Agaricus 283 

36. Spore-surface and spore-print of Polyporus (Boletus) . 285 

37- Spore-print of Amanita muscarius 289 

38. Action of slight draught on spores 291 








W&mwyfticj? 



mm 



''' ' ':';' W;,'^' ' 









C f J 





'Whole hundred- 
weights of rich, whole- 
some diet ratting under the 
trees ; woods teeming witb 
food ami not one band to 
gather it ; and this, perhaps, in 
the midst of poverty and all 
manner of privations and 
public prayers against 
imminent famine." 

C. D. BADHAM JLS 

 ^m~ 




'. "i-*** - u l%* '**> 
9 W 



^ 







oY-ntxoduction 




[PROMINENT botanical authority con- 
nected with one of our universities, 
upon learning of my intention of per- 
petrating a popular work on our ed- 
ible mushrooms and toadstools, was inclined 
to take issue with mc on the wisdom of such 
publication, giving as his reasons that, owing 
to the extreme difficulty of imparting exact 
scientific knowledge to the " general reader," such a 
work, in its presumably imperfect interpretation by 
the very individuals it is intended to benefit, would 
only result, in many instances, in supplanting the 
popular wholesome distrust of all mushrooms with 
a rash over-confidence which would tend to increase 
the labors of the family physician and the coroner. 
And, to a certain extent, in its appreciation of the 
difficulty of imparting exact science to the lay mind, 
his criticism was entirely reasonable, and would cer- 
tainly apply to any treatise on edible mushrooms for 
popular circulation which contemplated a too exten- 
sive field, involving subtle botanical analysis and nice 
differentiation between species. 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 






# . ./. *-J3ut # when we realize the fact  now generally con- 
. # *:/ *" ceded  that most of the fatalities consequent upon 

mushroom - eating are directly trace- 
identification a k] e to one particular tempting group 

fatal species of fungi, and that this group is more- 
over so distinctly marked that a tyro 
could learn to distinguish it, might not such a pop- 
ular work, in its emphasis by careful portraiture and 
pictorial analysis of this deadly genus  placarding 
it so clearly and unmistakably as to make it readily 
recognizable  might not such a work, to that extent 
at least, accomplish a public service ? 

Moreover, even the most conservative mycologist 
will certainly admit that out of the hundred and fifty 

of our admittedly esculent species of 
Conservative fungi there might be segregated a few 
mycology which bear such conspicuous charac- 
ters of outward form and other unique 
individual features  such as color of spores, gills, 
and tubes, taste, odor, surface character, color of 
milky juice, etc.  as to render them easily recogniz- 
able even by the " general reader." 

It is in the positive, affirmative assumption of these 
premises that the present work is prepared, com- 
prising as it does a selection of a score or more, as 
it were, self-placarded esculent species of fungi, while 
putting the reader safely on guard against the fatal 
species and a few other more or less poisonous or 
suspicious varieties which remote possibility might 
confound with them. 

Since the publication of a recent magazine article 
on this topic, and which became the basis of the pres- 



INTRODUCTION 3 

ent elaboration, I have been favored with a numerous 
and almost continuous correspondence upon mush- 
rooms, including letters from every 

intTesMn State * n the Union, to say nothing of 

mushrooms Canada and New Mexico, evincing the 

wide -spread interest in the fungus 
from the gustatory point of view. The cautious 
tone of most of these letters, in the main from neo- 
phyte mycologists, is gratifying in its demonstration 
of the wisdom of my position in this volume, or, as 
one of my correspondents puts it, " the frightening of 
one to death at the outset while extending an invita- 
tion to the feast." " Death was often a consequence 
of toadstool eating," my friend continued, "but I 
never before realized that it was a certain result with 
any particular mushroom, and to the extent of this 
information I am profoundly thankful." 

While, then, from the point of view of desired popu- 
larity of my book, the grim greeting of a death's-head 

upon the frontispiece might be consid- 

Caution at ered as something of a handicap, the 
the threshold author confesses that this attitude is 

the result of " malice prepense " and 
deliberation, realizing that he is not offering to the 
"lay public," for mere intellectual profit, this scientific 
analysis of certain fungus species. Were this alone 
the raison d'etre or the logical outcome of the work 
 mere identification of edible and poisonous species 
 the grewsome symbol which is so conspicuous on 
two of my pages might have been spared. But when 
it is remembered that with the selected list of escu- 
lent mushrooms herein offered is implied also an in- 



4 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

vitation and a recommendation to the feast thereof, 
with the author as the host  that the digestive func- 
tions of his confiding friends or guests are to be 
made the final arbiters of the correctness of his bo- 
tanical identification  the ban of bane mav as well 
be pronounced at the threshold. Let the too eager 
epicurean be " scared to death at the outset," on the 
general principle pro bono publico, and to the concilia- 
tion of the author s conscience. 

The oft-repeated queries of other correspondents 
suggest the wisdom of a clearer definition of the 

limitations of the present work. Sev- 
To corre- eral individuals have written in surprise 
spondents f their discovery of a new toadstool 

which I " did not include in my pict- 
ured magazine list," with accompaniment of more or 
less inadequate description and somewhat enigmatical 
sketches, and desiring the name of the species and 
judgment upon its esculent qualities. Such corre- 
spondence is a pleasing tribute to an author, and is 
herewith gratefully acknowledged as to the past and, 
with some mental reservations, welcomed as to the 
future. The number of these communications  oc- 
casionally several in a day, and with consequent rapid 
accumulation  renders it absolutely impossible for a 
busy man to give them the prompt personal atten- 
tion which courtesy would dictate. My " mushroom " 
pigeon-hole, therefore, is still plethoric with the un- 
honored correspondence of many weeks; and inas- 
much as the continual accession more than balances 
the number of my responses, a fulfilment of my obli- 
gations in this direction seems hopeless in contem- 



INTRODUCTION 5 

plation. I would therefore beg the indulgence of 
such of my friends as have awaited in vain for my 
reply to their kind communications, even though the 
future should bring no tidings from me. All of 
these letters have been received, and are herewith 
acknowledged : many of them, too, if I may be par- 
doned what would seem to be a most ungracious 
comment, for which the "dead-letter" office would 
have been the more appropriate destination. 

I refer to the correspondence " with accompany- 
ing specimens," the letter occasionally enclosed in 

the same box with the said specimens, 

Consider the which, upon its arrival, arouses a protest 

recipient from the local postal authorities, and 

calls for a liberal use of disinfectants 
 a disreputable -looking parcel, which, indeed, would 
appear more consistently referable to the health- 
board than to the mycologist. So frequent did this 
embarrassing episode become that it finally necessi- 
tated the establishment of a morgue for the benefit 
of my mushroom correspondents, or rather for their 
44 specimens," usually accompanied with the queries, 
44 What is the name of this mushroom ? Is it ed- 
ible ?" I have been obliged to write to several of my 
friends that identification of the remains was impos- 
sible, that the remnant was more interesting ento- 
mologically than botanically, and begging that in the 
future all such similar tokens shall be forwarded in 
alcohol or packed in ice. 

44 First impressions are lasting " and 44 a word to 
the wise is sufficient." I would suggest that corre- 
spondents hereafter consider the hazard of an intro- 



6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

duction under such questionable auspices. Most spe- 
cies of mushrooms are extremely perishable, and 

their " animal " character, chemically 
considered, and their tendency to rapid 
decomposition, render them unfit for 
transportation for any distance, unless 
hermetically sealed, or their decay otherwise antici- 
pated. 

In the possibility of a continuance of this corre- 
spondence, consequent upon the publication of this 
present book, the writer, in order to forefend a pre- 
sumably generous proportion of such correspondence, 
would here emphasize the fact that he is by no 
means the authority on mycology, or the science 
of fungi, which the attitude of his inquiring friends 
would imply. Indeed, his knowledge of species is 
quite limited. An early fascination, it is true, was 
humored with considerable zeal to the accumulation 
of a portfolio of water-colors and other drawings of 
various fungi  microscopic, curious, edible, and poi- 
sonous  and this collection has been subsequently 
added to at intervals during his regular professional 
work. 

More than one of the originals of the accompany- 
ing colored plates have been hidden in this portfolio 
for over twenty years, and a larger number for ten 
or fifteen years, awaiting the further accumulation of 
that knowledge and experience, especially with refer- 
ence to the edibility of species, which should warrant 
the utterance of the long-contemplated book. 

The reader will therefore kindly remember that 
out of the approximate iooo odd species of fungi en- 



INTRODUCTION 7 

titled by their dimensions to the dignity of "toad- 
stools" or "mushrooms"  after separating the 2000 

moulds, mildews, rusts, smuts, blights, 
Number of y eas ts, " mother," and other microscopic 

mushroom J r 

species species  and out of the 150 recom- 
mended edible species, the present work 
includes only about thirty. This selection has direct 
reference to popular utility, only such species having 
been included as offer some striking or other indi- 
vidual peculiarity by which they may be simply iden- 
tified, even without so-called scientific knowledge. 

The addition of color to the present list enables 
its extension somewhat beyond the scope of a series 
printed only in black and white, as in the distinction 
of mere form alone an uncolored drawing of a certain 
species might serve to the popular eye as a common 
portrait of a number of allied species, possibly includ- 
ing a poisonous variety. 

While the study of " fungi " has a host of devotees, 
the mysteries which involve the origin of life in this 

great order of the cryptogamia having 
Mycology and had fascinating attractions to micro- 

mycophagy scopical students and specialists, the 

study of economic mycology has been al- 
most without a champion in the United States. Thus 
we have many learned treatises on the nature, struct- 
ure, and habits of fungi  vegetative methods, chem- 
ical constituents, specific characters, classification  
learned dissertations on the microscopical moulds, 
mildews, rusts and smuts, blights and ferments, to 
say nothing of the medico-scientific and awe-inspiring 
potentialities of the sensational microbe, bacterium 



8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

bacillus, etc., which are daily bringing humanity with- 
in their spell and revolutionizing the science of medi- 
cine. But among all the various mycological publi- 
cations we look in vain for the great desideratum of 
the practical hand-book on the economic fungus  
the mushroom as food ! The mycologist who has 
been courageous enough to submit his chemical 

analysis and his botanical knowledge of 
Need of f U nei to the test of esculence in his own 

a practical .  

work being is a rara avis among them ; in- 
deed, a well-known authority states that 
"one may number on the fingers of his two hands 
the entire list of mycophagists in the United States." 
The absence of such works upon the mushroom and 
44 toadstool," greatly desired for reference at an early- 
period of my career, and little better supplied to- 
day, led to a resolve of which this volume is but an 
imperfect fulfilment. 

The special character of my volume, then  the 
collateral consideration of the fungus as food  will 

be sufficient excuse for the omission of 

Limitations of a merely technical discourse upon the 

this volume structure, classification, and vegetation 

of fungi as a class  a field so fully cov- 
ered by other authors more competent to discuss 
these lines of special science, and to a selection of 
whose works the reader is referred in the list here- 
with appended, to a number of which I am indebted 
for occasional quotations. A general idea of the 
methods of dissemination and habitats of fungi will 
be found in the final chapter on "spore-prints," while 
under the discussion of the " Amanita," Agaricus 



INTRODUCTION 9 

campestris, and the " Fairy Ring " the reader is re- 
ferred to a condensed account of the methods of veg- 
etation and growth of fungi sufficient for present 
purposes. Other references of similar character will 
be noted under " Fungi," in Index. 

The most conspicuous disciple of mycophagy  al- 
most the pioneer, indeed, in America  was the late 

Rev. M. A. Curtis, of North Carolina, 

The pioneer w h se name heads the bibliography on 

American  r J 

mycophagtet page 325. For the benefit of those of 

my readers who may wish to follow 
the subject further than my pages will lead them, 
I append the list of edible species of fungi contained 
in Curtis's Catalogue, each group alphabetically ar- 
ranged, the esculent qualities of many of which he 
himself discovered and attested by personal experi- 
ment. The favorite habitat of each fungus is also 
given, and to avoid any possibility of confusion in 
scientific nomenclature or synonymes, the authority 
for the scientific name is also given in each instance: 

LIST OF EDIBLE AMERICAN MUSHROOMS 

FROM THE CATALOGUE OF DR. M. A. CURTIS 

Agaricus albellus. De Candolle. Damp woods. 

A, (amanita) Ccesarea. Scopoli. In oak forests. 

A, {amanita) rubcscens. Persoon. Damp woods. 

A. (amanita) strobiliformis. Vittadini. Common in woods. 

A. amygdalinus. M. A. Curtis. Rich grounds, woods, and lanes. 

A. arvensis. SchaefTer. Fields and pastures. 

A. bombicinus. Schaeffer. Earth and carious wood. 

A, campestris. Linnaeus. P'ields and pastures. 

A. castus. M. A. Curtis. Grassv old fields. 

A. cespitosus. M. A. Curtis. Base of stumps. 

A. columbetta. Fries. Woods. 

A. consociatus. Pine woods. 



IO EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Agaricus cretaceus. Fries. Earth and wood. 

A. esculentus. Jacquin. Dense woods. 

A. excoriatus. Fries. Grassy lands. 

A. frumentaceous. Bulliard. Pine woods. 

A. giganteus. Sowerby. Borders of pine woods. 

A. glandulosus. Bulliard. Dead trunks. 

A. hypopithyus. M. A. Curtis. Pine logs. 

A, mastoideus. Fries. Woods. 

A, melleus. Valmy. About stumps and logs. 

A. mu tab His. Schaeffer. Trunks. 

A. nebula ris. Batsch. Damp woods. 

A. odorus. Bulliard. Woods. 

A, ostreatus. Jacquin. Dead trunks. 

A. persona t us. M. A. Curtis. Near rotten logs. 

A.pometi. Fries. Carious wood. 

A. procerus. Scopoli. Woods and fields. 

A. prunulus. Scopoli. Damp woods. 

A. rachodes. Vittadini. Base of stumps and trees. 

A. radicatus. Bulliard. Woods. 

A. (russula). Schaeffer. Among leaves in woods. 

A. salignus. Persoon. On trunks and stumps. 

A. speciosus. Fries. Grassy land. 

A. squamosus. Muller. Oak stumps. 

A. sylvatieus. Schaeffer. Woods. 

A. tesscllatus. Bulliard. Pine trunks. 

A. ulmarius. Sowerby. Dead trunks. 
Boletus bovinus. Linnaeus. Pine woods. 

B. castaneus. Bulliard. Woods. 
B. collinitus. Fries. Pine woods. 
B. edulis. Bulliard. Woods. 

B. clegans. Fries. Earth in woods. 

B. flavidus. Fries. Damp woods. 

B.granulatus. Linnaeus. Woods and fields. 

B. luteus. Linnaeus. Pine woods. 

B. scaber. Bulliard. Sandy woods. 

B. subtomentosus. Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

B. versipcllis. Fries. Woods. 

Bovista uigresccns. Persoon. Grassy fields. 

B. plumbea. Persoon. Grassy fields. 
Cautharellus cibarius. Fries. Woods. 
Clavaria aurea. Schaeffer. Earth in woods, 

C. botritis. Persoon. Earth in woods. 
C. crisfata. Holmskiold. Damp woods. 
C.fastigiatn. Linnaeus Grassy places. 
C.Jlai'a. Fries. Earth in woods. 
C.formosa. Persoon. Earth in woods. 



INTRODUCTION II 

Clavaria fuligitua. Persoon. Shady woods. 

C. macropus, Persoon. Earth. 

C. muscoides. Linnaeus. Grassy places. 

C. pyxidata. Persoon. Rotten woods. 

C. rugosa. Bulliard. Damp woods. 

C. subtilis. Persoon. Shaded banks. 

C. tetragona. Schwartz. Damp woods. 

Coprinus atramentarius. Bulliard. Manured ground. 

C. covin t us. Fries. In stable-yards. 

Cortinarius castaneus. Fries. Earth in woods. 

C. cinnamomeus. Fries. Earth and wood. 

C. violaceus. Fries. Woods. 

Fistulina hepatica. Fries. Base of trunks and stumps. 

Helvetia crtipa. Fries. Pine in woods. 

H. infula. SchaefTer. Earth and pine logs. 

H. lacunosa. Afzelius. Near rotten logs. 

H. sulcata. Afzelius. Shady woods. 

Hydnutn caput -mcdusce. Bulliard. Trunks and logs. 

H. coralloidcs. Scopoli. Side of trunks. 

H. imbricatum, Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

H. laevigatum. Schwartz. Pine woods. 

H. repandum. Linnaeus. Woods. 

H. rufescens. SchaefTer. Woods. 

H. subsquamosum. Batsch. Damp woods. 

Hygrophorus cbumeus. Fries. Woods. 

H. pratcnsis. Fries. Hill-sides. 

Lactarius augustissimus. Lasch. Thin woods. 

Z. deliciosus. Fries. Pine woods. 

Z. itisulsus. Fries. Woods. 

Z. pipcratus. Fries. Dry woods. 

Z. subdu/cis. Fries. Damp grounds. 

Z. volemus. Fries. Woods. 

Lycoperdon bovista. Linnaeus. Grassy lands. 

Pachyma cocos. Fries. Underground. 

Paxilius involutus. Fries. Sandy woods. 

Pofyporus Berkekii. Fries. Woods. 

P. confluens. Fries. Pine woods. 

P. crista tus. Fries. Pine woods. 

P. frondorus. Fries. Earth and base of stumps. 

P. giganteus. Fries. Base of stumps. 

P. leucotnelas. Fries. Woods. 

P. ovinus. SchaefTer. Earth in woods. 

P. poripes. Fries. Wooded ravines. 

P. sulphureus. Fries. Trunks and logs. 

Marasmius oreades. Fries. Hill-sides. 

M. scorodoneus. Fries. Decaying vegetation. 



12 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Morchella Caroliniana. Itosc. Earth in woods. 
M. csculmta. Persoon. Earth in woods. 
Russula alutacea. Fries. Woods. 
R. hpida. Fries. Pine woods. 
R. virescens. Fries. Woods. 
Sparassis crispa. Fries. Earth. 
S. laminosa. Fries. Oak logs. 
Trcmella mesenterial. Retz. On bark. 



In the contemplation of such a generous natural 
larder as the above list implies, Dr. Badham's feeling 
allusion to the " hundred-weights of wholesome diet 
rotting under the trees," quoted in one of my earlier 
illustrated pages, will be readily appreciated. 

In the purposely restricted scope of these pages 
I have omitted a large majority of species in Dr. 

Curtis's list, known to be equally es- 

Restricted cu l e nt with those which I have select- 
scope of this 

volume ed, but whose popular differentiation 

might involve too close discrimination 
and possibly serious error; and while my list is 
probably not as complete as it might be with per- 
fect safety, the number embraces species, nearly all 
of them what may be called cosmopolitan types, to 
be found more or less commonly throughout the 
whole United States and generally identical with Eu- 
ropean species. It will be observed that the list of 
Dr. Curtis is headed by three members of Amanitae. 
The particular species cited are well known to be 
esculent, but they are purposely omitted from my list, 
which for considerations of safety absolutely excludes 
the entire genus Amanita of the "poison-cup" which 
is discussed at some length in the succeeding chapter. 
For popular utility from the food standpoint my se- 



INTRODUCTION 1 3 

lection presents, to all intents and purposes, a more 
than sufficient list, the species being easily distin- 
guished, and, with proper consideration to their fresh- 
ness, entirely safe and of sufficient frequency in their 
haunts to insure a continually available mushroom 
harvest throughout the entire fungus season. 

The knowledge of their identities once acquired, 
it is perfectly reasonable to assert that in average 

weather conditions the fungus-hunter 

Fungus food m3 y confine himself to these varieties 

always J 

available and still be confronted with an embar- 
rassment of riches, availing himself of 
three meals a day, with the mere trouble of a ramble 
through the woods or pastures. Indeed, he may 
restrict himself to six of these species  the green 
Russula, Puff - ball, Pasture - mushroom, Campestris 
(meadow-mushroom), Shaggy-mane, and Boletus edu- 
lis  and yet become a veritable mycological gour- 
mand if he chooses, never at a loss for an appetiz- 
ing entree at his table. 

In the group of Russulae and Boleti alone, more 
than one conservative amateur of the writers ac- 
quaintance finds a sufficient supply to meet all diet- 
ary wants. 

What a plenteous, spontaneous harvest of delicious 

feasting annually goes begging in our 
A neglected woods and fields ! 
harvest The sentiment of Dr. Badham, the 

eminent British authority on mush- 
rooms, years ago, in reference to the spontaneous 
perennial harvest of wild edible fungi which abound- 
ed in his country, going to waste by the ton, would 



14 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

appear to be as true to-day for Britain as when he 
uttered it, and applies with even greater force to the 
similar, I may say identical, neglected tribute of Nat- 
ure in our own American woods and fields, where the 
growth of fungi is especially rich. 

The fungus-eaters of Britain, it is said, are even 
to-day merely a conspicuous coterie, while in Amer- 
ica this particular sort of specialist is 
Fundus more generally an isolated " crank " who 
epicures J s compelled to " flock alone," contem- 
plated with a certain awe by his less 
venturesome fellows, and otherwise variously consid- 
ered, either with envy of his experience and scientific 
knowledge, or more probably as an irresponsible, who 
continually tempts Providence in his foolhardy ex- 
periments with poison. 

But what a contrast do we find on the Continent in 
the appreciation of the fungus as an article of diet! 
In France, Germany, Russia, and Italy, for example, 
where the woods are scoured for the perennial crop, 
and where, through centuries of popular familiarity 
and tradition, the knowledge of its economic value 
has become the possession of the people, a most im- 
portant possession to the poor peasant who, perhaps 

for weeks together, will taste no other 
Chemical animal food. I say " animal food " ad- 
constituents visedly; for, gastronomically and chem- 
ically considered, the flesh of the mush- 
room has been proven to be almost identical with 
meat, and possesses the same nourishing properties. 
This animal affinity is further suggested in its physi- 
ological life, the fungus reversing the order of all 



INTRODUCTION 15 

other vegetation in imbibing oxygen and exhaling 
carbonic acid, after the manner of animals. It is not 
surprising, therefore, that the analogy should be still 
further emphasized by the discrimination of the pal- 
ate, many kinds of fungi when cooked simulating the 
taste and consistency of animal food almost to the 
point of deception. 

But in America the fungus is under the ban, its 
great majority of harmless or even wholesome ed- 
ible species having been brought into 
Popular popular disrepute through the contami- 
fungi nation, mostly, of a single small genus. 

In the absence of special scientific 
knowledge, or, from our present point of view, its 
equivalent, popular familiarity, this general distrust 
of the whole fungus tribe may be, however, consid- 
ered a beneficent prejudice. So deadly is the insid- 
ious, mysterious foe that lurks among the friendly 
species that it is well for humanity in general that 
the entire list of fungi should share its odium, else 
those " toadstool " fatalities, already alarmingly fre- 
quent, might become a serious feature in our tables 
of mortality. 

But the prejudice is needlessly sweeping. A little 
so-called knowledge of fungi has often proven to be 

a "dangerous thing," it is true, but it 
Fundus food is quite possible for any one of ordinary 
for all intelligence, rightly instructed, to mas- 
ter the discrimination of at least a few 
of the more common edible species, while being thor- 
oughly equipped against the dangers of deadly vari- 
eties, whose identification is comparatively simple. 



16 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It is idle to attempt an adjudication of the vexed 
"*' toadstool " and " mushroom " question here. The 

toad is plainly the only final, appealable 

T a d nd 001 authorit y on this subject. It may be 
 mushroom" questioned whether he is at pains to de- 
termine the delectable or noisome qual- 
ities  from the human standpoint  of a particular 
fungus before deciding to settle his comfortable pro- 
portions upon its summit  if, indeed, he even so 
honors even the humblest of them. 

The oft-repeated question, therefore, " Is this fungus 
a toadstool or a mushroom?" may fittingly be met by 
the counter query, u Is this rose a flower or a blossom?" 
The so-called distinction is a purely arbitrary, pop- 
ular prejudice which differentiates the " toadstool" as 
poisonous, the " mushroom " being considered harm- 
less. But even the rustic authorities are rather mixed 
on the subject, as may be well illustrated by a recent 
incident in my own experience. 

Walking in the woods with a country friend in 
quest of fungi, we were discussing this "toadstool" 

topic when we came upon a cluster of 

Popular mushrooms at the base of a tree-trunk, 

discrimination their broad, expanded caps apparently 

upholstered in fawn-colored, undressed 
kid, their under surfaces being stuffed and tufted in 
pale greenish hue. 

" What would you call those ?" I inquired. 
" Those are toadstools, unmistakably," he replied. 
u Well, toadstools or not, you see there about two 
pounds of delicious vegetable meat, for it is the com- 
mon species of edible boletus  Boletus edulisT 



INTRODUCTION 1 7 

A few moments later we paused before a beautiful 
specimen, lifting its parasol of pure white above the 
black leaf mould. 

" And what is this ?" I inquired. 

" I would certainly call that a mushroom," was his 
instant reply. 

This mushroom proved to be a fine, tempting speci- 
men of the Agaricus (amanita) vemus y the deadliest 
of the mushrooms, and one of the most violent and 
fatal of all known vegetable poisons, whose attractive 
graces and insidious wiles are doubtless continually 
responsible for those numerous fatalities usually dis- 
missed with the epitaph, " Died from eating toad- 
stools in mistake for mushrooms." 

So much, therefore, for the popular distinction which 
makes " toadstool " a synonyme for " poisonous," and 
" mushroom " synonymous with " edible," and which 
often proves to be the "little knowledge" which is 
very dangerous. 

The too prevalent mortality traceable to the mush- 
room is confined to two classes of unfortunates: 

i. Those who have not learned that 

Vi?^ tlc there is such a thins: as a fatal mush- 
authorities on . * 

"mushrooms" room; 2. 1 he provincial authority who 

can " tell a mushroom " by a number of 
his so-called infallible " tests " or " proofs." There is a 
large third class to whose conservative caution is to 
be referred the prevalent arbitrary distinction be- 
tween " toadstool " and " mushroom," ardent disciples 
of old Tertullian, who believed in regard to toadstools 
that " For every different hue they display there is 
a pain to correspond to it, and just so many modes 



18 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of death as there are distinct species," and whose 
obstinate dogma, " There is only one mushroom, all 
the rest are toadstools," has doubtless spared them 
an occasional untimely grave, for few of this class, 
from their very conservatism, ever fall victims to the 
" toadstool." 

And what a self-complacent, patronizing, solicitous 
character this rustic mushroom oracle is! Go where 
you will in the rural districts and you are sure of 
him, or perhaps her  usually a conspicuous figure 
in the neighborhood, the village blacksmith, perhaps, 
or the simpler " Old Aunt Huldy." Their father 
and "granther" before them u knew how to tell a 
mushroom," and this enviable knowledge has been 
their particular inheritance. 

How well we more special students of the fungus 
know him ! and how he wins our tender regard with 
his keen solicitude for our well-being! We meet him 
everywhere in our travels, and always with the same 
old story ! We emerge from the wood, perhaps, with 
our basket brimful of our particular fungus tidbits, 
topped off with specimens of red Russula and Bole- 
tus, and chance to pass him on the road or in the 
meadow. He scans the basket curiously as he passes 
us. He has perhaps heard rumors afloat that " there's 
a city chap in town who is tempting Providence with 
his foolin' with tudstools ;" and with genuine solici- 
tude and superior condescension and awe, all be- 
trayed in his countenance, he must needs pause in 
his walk to relieve his mind in our behalf. I recall 
one characteristic episode, of which the above is the 
prelude. 



INTRODUCTION 19 

" Ye ain't a-goin' to eat them, air ye ?" he asks, anx- 
iously, by way of introduction. 

" I am, most certainly," I respond ; " that is, if I 
can get my good farmer's wife to cook them without 

corning them and inundating them in 
Rustic lemon-juice." 
discrimination " Waal, then, Til say good-bye to ye," 

he responds, with emphasis. " Why, 
don't ye know them's tudstools, V they'll kill ye as 
sartin as pizen? I wonder they ain't fetched ye afore 
this. You never larned tew tell mushrooms. My 
father et 'em all his life, and so hev I, 'n' I knoiv 
'em. Come up into my garden yender V I'll show 
ye haow to tell the reel mushroom. There's a lot 
of 'em thar in the hot-bed naow. Come along. I'll 
give ye a mess on 'em if ye'll only throw them pizen 
things away." 

" And how do you know that those in your garden 
are real mushrooms?" I inquire. 

" Why, they ain't anything like them o' yourn. 
They're pink and black underneath, and peel up from 
the edge." 

" How many kinds of mushrooms are there, do you 
suppose ?" I ask. 

" They's only the one kind; all the others is tud- 
stools and pizen. It's easy to tell the reel mushroom. 
Come up and I'll show ye. Don't eat them things, I 
beg on ye ! I vaow they'll kill ye !" 

At this point he catches a glimpse of a Shaggy- 
mane mushroom, which comes to light as I tenderly 
fondle the specimens, and which is evidently recog- 
nized as an acquaintance. 



20 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" What !" he exclaims, in pale alarm. " Ye airit 
goin' t' eat them too ?" 

" Oh yes I am, this very evening," I respond. " I 
think I'll try them//." 

"Why, man, yure crazy! You don't know nothin' 
about 'em. I'd as soon think o' eatin' pizen outright. 

Them's what we call black -slime tud- 
a rustic stools. They come up out o' manure. 
authority I've seen my muck -heap in my barn- 
yard covered with the nasty things time 
'n' ag'in. They look nice 'n' white naow, but they 
rot into the onsiteliest black mess ye ever see. I 
know wut I'm sayin'. Ye can't tell me nothin' 'baout 
them tudstools ! They keep comin' up along my 
barn-fence all thro' the fall  bushels of 'em." 

" Well, my good friend, it's a great pity, then, that 
you have not learned something about toadstools as 
well as mushrooms, for you might have saved many 
a butcher's bill, and may in the future if you will 
only take my word that this much-abused specimen 
is as truly a mushroom as your pink-gilled peeler, 
and to my mind far more delicious." 

" What ! Do you mean to tell me thet you have 
reely eaten V/;/ .<?" 

" Yes, indeed; often. Why, just look at its clean, 
shaggy cap, its creamy white or pink gills under- 
neath ; take a sniff of its pleasant aroma; and here! 
just taste a little piece  it's as sweet as a nut!" I 
conclude, offering him the white morsel. 

"Not much! Ill make my will first, thanked! 
You let me see ye eat a mess of em, and if the coro- 
ner don't get ye, p'raps I'll try on't." 



INTRODUCTION 21 

Experiences similar to this one are frequent in the 
career of every mycophagist, and serve to illustrate 
the pity and solicitude which he awakens among his 

fellow-mortals, as well as to emphasize 
 Toadstool" the prevalent superstitions regarding 
prejudice the comparative virtues of the mush- 
room and toadstool  a prejudice which, 
by-the-way, in the absence of available popular liter- 
ature on the subject, and the actual dangers which 
encompass their popular distinction, is a most benef- 
icent public safeguard. 

The mushroom which u he can tell " is generally 
the Agaricus campestris, or one of its several vari- 
eties ; and knowing this alone, and 

PopU Md te8ts tem P ted b y no other ' this sort of vil " 

superstitions lage oracle escapes the fate which of- 
ten awaits another class, who are not 
thus conservative, and who extend their definition of 
mushroom (a word supposed to be synonymous with 
" edible "), and this mainly through the indorsement 
of certain so-called infallible tests handed down to 
them from their forefathers, and by which the escu- 
lent varieties may be distinguished from the poison- 
ous. By these so-called "tests" or "proofs" the 
identification of certain species is gradually acquired. 
The rural fungus epicure now " knows them by 
sight," or perhaps has received his information sec- 
ond-hand, and makes his selection without hesitation, 
with what success may be judged from the incident 
in my own experience already noted  one which, 
knowing as I did the frequency and confidence with 
which my country friend sampled the fungi at his 



22 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

table, filled me with consternation and anxiety for his 
future. 

" How, then, shall we distinguish a mushroom from 
a toadstool ?" 

There is no way of distinguishing them, for they 
are the same. 

" How, then, shall we know a poisonous toadstool 
from a harmless one ?" the reader hopelessly exclaims. 

This discrimination is by no means as difficult as 
is popularly supposed, but in the first place, the stu- 
dent must entirely rid himself of all preconceived 
notions and traditions, such as the following almost 
world-wide u tests," many of which are easily demon- 
strated to be worse than worthless, and have doubt- 
less frequently led to an untimely funeral. Some 
of these are merely local, and in widely separated 
districts are supplanted by others equally arbitrary 
and absurd, while many of them are as old as history. 



WORTHLESS TRADITIONAL TESTS FOR THE DISCRIMINA- 
TION OF POISONOUS AND KDIISLE MUSHROOMS 

FAVORABLE SIGNS 

i. Pleasant taste and odor. 

2. Peeling of the skin of the cap from rim to centre. 

3. Pink gills, turning brown in older specimens. 

4. The stem easily pulled out of the cap and inserted in it 
like a parasol handle. 

5. Solid stems. 

6. Must be gathered in the morning. 

7. " Any fungus having a pleasant taste and odor, being found 
similarly agreeable after being plainly broiled without the least 
seasoning, is perfectly safe." 



INTRODUCTION 23 



UNFAVORABLE SIGNS 



8. Boiling with a " silver spoon," the staining of the silver in- 
dicating danger. 

9. Change of color in the fracture of the fresh mushroom. 

10. Slimy or sticky on the top. 

11. Having the stems at their sides. 

12. Growing in clusters. 

13. Found in dark, damp places. 

14. Growing on wood, decayed logs, or stumps. 

15. Growing on or near manure. 

16. Having bright colors. 

17. Containing milky juice. 

18. Having the gill plates of even length. 

19. Melting into black fluid. 

20. Biting the tongue or having a bitter or nauseating taste. 

21. Changing color by immersion in salt-water, or upon being 
dusted with salt. 

These present but a selection of the more preva^ 
lent notions. Taken in toto, they would prove entirely 
safe, as they would practically exclude every species 
of mushroom or toadstool that grows. Put as a rule 
the village oracle bases his infallibility upon two or 
three of the above " rules," and inasmuch as the entire 
list absolutely omits the only one test by which dan- 
ger is to be avoided, it is a seven-days* wonder that 
the grewsome toadstool epitaph is not more frequent. 

I once knew an aged dame who was accepted as a 
village oracle on this as well as other topics, such 

as divining, palmistry, and fortune- tell- 
Absolute j n g an( j w h ate an( j dispensed toad- 

worthlessness 

of above tests stools on a few of the above rules. 

Strange to say, she lived to a good old 

age, and no increased mortality is credited to her 

memory as a result of her generosity. 



24 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

How are these popular notions sustained by the 
facts? Let us analyze them seriatim and confront 
each with its refutation, the better to show their en- 
tire untrustworthiness. 



POPULAR TESTS REFUTED 

Pleasant taste and odor (i) is a conspicuous feat- 
ure in the regular " mushroom " (Agaricus campestris\ 

and most other edible fungi, but as a 

Worthless criterion for safety it is a mockery. 

popular tests The deadly Agaricus antanita, already 

mentioned, has an inviting odor and to 
most people a pleasant taste when raw, and being 
cooked and eaten gives no token of its fatal resources 
until from six to twelve hours after, when its unfort- 
unate victim is past hope. (See p. 68.) 

The ready peeling of the skin (2) is one of the most 
widely prevalent proofs of probation, and is often 
considered a stifficient test ; yet the Amanita will be 
found to peel with a degree of accommodation which 
would thus at once settle its claims as a " mushroom." 
Indeed, a large number of species, including several 
poisonous kinds, will peel as perfectly as the Cam- 
pestris. 

The pink gills turning brown (3) is a marked char- 
acteristic of the " mushroom " {A. campestris, Plate 5), 
and, being a rare tint among the fungus tribe, is really 
one of the most valuable of the tests, especially as it 
is limited by rules affecting other pink-gilled species. 

The stem being easily pulled out of the cap (4) ap- 



INTRODUCTION 2$ 

plies to several edible species, but equally to the poi- 
sonous. 

The notion that edible mushrooms have solid stems 
^5) would be a very unsafe talisman for us to take 

to the woods in our search for fungus- 
Worthless food. Many poisonous species are thus 
popular tests solid  the emetic Russula, for example 

 while the alleged importance of the 
morning specimens (6) is without the slightest foun- 
dation. 

The passage quoted here (7), or a statement to the 
same effect, was quite widely circulated in the news- 
papers a dozen or more years ago, in an article which 
bore all the indications of authoritative utterance, 
the assumption being that the poisonous mushroom 
would invariably give some forbidding token to the 
senses by which it might be discriminated. 

Woe to the fungus epicure who should sample his 
mushrooms and toadstools on such a criterion as this, 
as the most fatal 0/ all mushrooms, the Amanita ver- 
nus, would fulfil all these requisites. 

The discoloration of silver (8) is a test as old as 
Pliny at least, a world-wide popular touchstone for the 
detection of deleterious fungi, but useful only in the 
fact that it will often exclude a poison not contem- 
plated in the discrimination. On this point, especially 
as it affords opportunity to emphasize a common dis- 
appointment of the mushroom-eater, I quote from a 
recent work by Julius A. Palmer (see Bibliography, 
No. 3): u Mushrooms decay very rapidly. In a short 
time a fair, solid fungus becomes a mass of mag- 
gots which eat its tissue until its substance is honey- 



26 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

combed ; these cells, on a warm day, are charged with 

the vapors of decomposition. Now you put such 

mushrooms as these (and I have seen 

Worthless just such on the markets of Boston and 
popular teats London) over the fire. In boiling, sul- 
phuretted hydrogen or other noxious 
gases are liberated ; you stir with a bright spoon and 
it is discolored ; proud of your test, you throw away 
your stew. Now this is right, but if from this you 
conclude that all fungus which discolors silver is poi- 
sonous and that which leaves it bright is esculent, you 
are in dangerous error. It is the same with fish at 
sea. Tradition says that you must fry a piece of sil- 
ver with them and throw them away if it discolors. 
Certainly the experiment does no harm, and shows a 
decomposition in both cases which might have been 
detected without the charm." Opposed to this so- 
called talisman, how grim is the fact that the deadli- 
est of all mushrooms, the Amanita, in its fresh condi- 
tion, has no effect upon silver. 

The change of color in fracture (9) has long been 
a ban to the fungus as food. But this would ex- 
clude several very delicious species, which turn blu- 
ish, greenish, and red when broken  viz., Boletus sitb- 
lomentosus (Plate 22), Boletus strobilaceus (Plate 23), 
and Lactarius (Plate 18). 

The " toadstools" with "sticky tops" thus discrimi- 
nated against (10) include a number of esculent spe- 
cies, Boleti and Russule, and others, as do also the 
varieties with side-stems (11)  viz., Agaricus ulma* 
rius (Plate 15), Fislulina hepatica (Plate 25), Agaricus 
ostreatus {Plate 14), etc. 



INTRODUCTION 2J 

The clustered fungi {\t) have long been included in 
the black-list without reason, as witness the following 

esteemed esculent species: The Shag- 

Worthless gy-mane (Plate 16), Coprinus atramen- 
popular tests tarius (Plate 17), Oyster mushroom 

(Plate 14), Elm mushroom (Plate 15), 
Puff-balls (Plate 34), and Champignon (Plate 8). 

To exclude all fungi which grow in dark, damp 
places (13) is a singular inconsistency, as in some 
localities this would eliminate the very one species of 
"mushroom" admittedly eatable by popular favor. 
In many countries these are regularly cultivated for 
market in dark, damp, subterranean caverns or in 
cellars. Indeed, the " dark, damp place" would appear 
to be the ideal habitat of this the " only mushroom !" 

Equally absurd is the discrimination against those 
growing on wood (14), which again deprives us of 
the delicious Hydnum (Plate 27), the Beefsteak (Plate 
25), Oyster mushroom (Plate 14), Elm mushroom 
(Plate 15), and many others, including Puff-balls 
(Plate 34). If we exclude those growing upon or 
near manure (15), we shall be obliged to omit the 
Coprinus group (Plates 16 and 17), and often the 
" reel mushroom " as well. 

Among the bright-colored species (16), it is true, 
are many dangerous individuals, as, for instance, the 
deadly Fly Amanita of Plate 4, and the emetic 
Russula (Plate 13), but on this fiat we should have to 
reject the other brilliant esculent Russulae (Plates 1 1 
and 12), the brilliant yellow Chantarelle (Plate 19), 
the Lactarius (Plate 18), and various other equally 
palatable and wholesome species. 



28 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The objection against milky mushrooms (17) would 
serve to exclude the poisonous species of Lactarius, 

but would thus include at least two of 

Worthless the delicious species of the group, Z,. 
popular tests deliciostts, with orange milk (Plate 18), 

and L. piperatus, another species with 
white milk not figured in this volume. 

The group of Russulae, most of which are esculent, 
is notable for their gills of even length (18), though 
not all the species are thus characterized. This 
discrimination, however, especially applies to the 
Shaggy-mane (Plate 16), which is conspicuously even- 
gilled, and is a decided delicacy. 

This species, together with its congener, the edible 
Coprinus atramentarius (Plate 17), are notorious for 
their melting into black fluid (19), which is thus of no 
significance as a test, although the mushrooms are not 
supposed to be eaten in this stage of deliquescence. 

A fungus which bites the tongue (20) when tasted 
would naturally be excluded from our mushroom diet, 
as would also, of course, those of a bitter or nauseat- 
ing taste ; but several species, notably the Lactarius 
piperatus, as its name implies, is very hot and peppery 
when raw  a characteristic which disappears in cook- 
ing, after which it is perfectly esculent. The same 
applies in a scarcely less degree to the Agaricus 
mcttcus, and less so to the ffydnum repandum (Plate 
27), and other mushrooms. But the poisonous Rus- 
sula cmetica (Plate 13) gives this same hot, warning 
tang, and this rule (17) would at least thus exclude 
the harmful species, and is thus contributive to pop- 
ular safety. 



INTRODUCTION 29 

The salt test (21), with that of the silver charm, is 
also a relic of the dim past, but is absolutely useless 

as a touchstone. Many poisonous spe- 

Worthless cies, notably the Amanita, fail to answer 

popular tests to it. All authorities agree, however, 

that the addition of salt in cooking, or 
the preparatory soaking of specimens in brine, has a 
tendency to render poisonous species innocuous. In- 
deed, it is claimed that in Russia and elsewhere on 
the Continent many admittedly poisonous species, 
even the deadly Fly Amanita, is habitually eaten sub- 
sequent to this semi-corning process, by which the 
poisonous chemical principle is neutralized. 

Among this long list, and many other equally 
arbitrary and ignorant prejudicial traditions, many 

of which date back to the earliest 
Omission times, it is indeed astonishing to note 

of the only ' & 

true test the conspicuous absence 01 the one and 

only valuable sign by which the fatal 
species could be unmistakably determined  a symbol 
which was reserved for botanical science to discover: 
the presence of the " cup " in the Amanita, which is 
pointedly emphasized in my Frontispiece, and the im- 
portance of which as a botanical and cautionary dis- 
tinction is considered at more length in the following 
chapter. 

It is well to consider for a moment what is im- 
plied in 

"A POISONOUS MUSHROOM" 

A fungus may be poisonous in various ways : 
1. A distinct and certain deadly poison. 



30 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. The cause of violent digestive or other func- 
tional disturbance, but not necessarily fatal. 

3. The occasion of more or less serious physical 
derangement through mere indigestibility. 

4. Productive of similar disorders through the em- 
ployment of decayed or wormy specimens of perfectly 
esculent species. 

5. These same esculent species, even in their fresh 
condition, may become highly noxious by contact or 
confinement with specimens of the Amanita by the 
absorption of its volatile poison, as further described 
on p. 69. 

And lastly comes the question of idiosyncrasy, a 
consideration which is of course not taken into ac- 
count in our recommendation of cer- 
Concerning tain well-established food varieties. 
idiosyncrasy " One man's food another man's poi- 
son." The scent of the rose is some- 
times a serious affliction, and even the delicious straw- 
berry has repeatedly proven a poison. Even the 
most wholesome mushroom will occasionally require 

to be discriminated against, as certain 
Decaying individuals find it necessary to exclude 
mushrooms cabbage, milk, onions, and other com- 
mon food from their diet. When we 
reflect, moreover, that in its essential chemical affin- 
ities the fungus simulates animal flesh, and many 

of the larger and more solid varieties 

Fresh are similarly subject to speedy decom- 

specimens position, it is obviously important that 

all fungi procured/or the table should 
be collected in their prime, and prepared and served as 



INTRODUCTION 3 1 

quickly as possible. More than one case of supposed 
mushroom poisoning could be directly traced to care- 
lessness in this regard, when the species themselves, 
in their proper condition, had been perfectly whole- 
some. 

There can be no general rule laid down for the 
discrimination of an edible fungtts. Each must be 

learned as a species, or at least famil- 

No general iarized as a kind, even as we learn to 

identification recognize certain flowers, trees, or birds. 

Within a certain range this discrim- 
ination is practised by the merest child. How are 
the robin, the chippy, and the swallow recognized, or 
the red clover, and white clover, and yellow clover ? 
Even in the instances of species which bear a very 
close outward similarity, how simple, after all, does 

the distinction become. Here, for in- 
Simple stance, is the wild-lettuce, and its mimic, 

botanical . . . 

discrimination the mulgcdium, growing side by side  

to ninety-nine out of a hundred observ- 
ers absolutely alike, and apparently the same species. 
But how readily are they distinguished, I will not say 
by the botanist merely, but by any one who will take 
the small pains of contrasting their specific botanical 
characters  perfectly infallible, no matter how vari- 
ous the masquerade of their foliage. The lettuce has 
yellow blossoms, and a seed prolonged into a long 
beak, to whose tip the feathery pappus is attached. 
The mulgedium has dull bluish flowers, and its pap- 
pus is attached to the seed by a hardly perceptible 
elongation. As with the birds and wild-flowers, so 
with the fungi: we must learn them as species, even 



32 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as we learn to distinguish the difference between the 
trefoil of the clover and that of the wood-sorrel, or 
between the innocuous wild-carrot and the poison- 
hemlock, the harmless stag-horn sumach and its 
venomous congener, the Rhus venenata. There are 
parallel outward resemblances between esculent and 
poisonous fungi, but each possesses otherwise its 
own special features by which it may be identified  
variations of gills, pores, spores, taste, odor, color, 
juice, consistency of pulp, method of decay, etc. 

It must not be presumed that the list of edible 
species just cited from the catalogue of Dr. Curtis 
includes all the esculents among the fungi. Dr. 
Harkness has discovered and classified many others. 
Mr. Palmer and Prof. Charles Peck are never at a 
loss for their " mess of mushrooms " among their list 
of nearly a hundred species, while Mr. Charles Mcll- 
vaine, whose name, so far as its practical authority 
is concerned, should appear more prominently in my 
bibliographical list, but who has not yet incor- 
porated his many mycological essays in book form, 
writes me that he has tested gastronomically a host 
of species, and has found over three hundred to be 
edible, or at least harmless. It may be said that the 
probabilities would include a large majority of the 
thousand species in the same category. But this is 
a matter which, in the absence of absolute knowl- 
edge, is mere conjecture. 

Of the forty-odd species which the writer enjoys 
with more or less frequency at his table, he is satis- 
fied that he can select at least thirty which possess 
such distinct and strongly marked characters of form, 



INTRODUCTION 33 

structure, and other special qualities as to enable 
them, by the aid of careful portraiture and brief de- 
scription, to be easily recognized, even by a tyro. 

As previously emphasized, the present work does 
not aim to be complete, nor does it contemplate a 
practical utility beyond its specific recommendations, 
nor will the author assume any responsibility for the 
hazard which shall exceed its restricted list of species. 

On general principles, however, considering the 
pronene^_of^hjamanity towards the acquisition of for- 
bidden fruit, and reasoning from my 

Humanity own ac t ua i experience, and that of 

forbidden fruit many others to whom this fascinating 

hobby of epicurean fungology has~be- 
come a growing passion, it may almost be assumed 
that the Tungus appetite with many of my readers 
will increase by what it feeds on, and the sufficiency 
herewith offered will scarcely suffice. Like Oliver 
Twist, they must needs have more. The glory of a 
new acquisition to the fungus menu, and emulation 
of other rival tyro mycophagists, will doubtless lead 
many enthusiasts to more or less hazardous experi- 
ment among the legion of the unknown species. 
This logical tendency, then, must be met ere my 
book can safely and conscientiously be launched 
upon its career, to which purpose I would append 
the following condensed 

RULES FOR THE VENTURESOME 

i. Avoid every mushroom having a cup, or sugges- 
tion of such, at base (see Frontispiece, and Plates 3 
and 4) ; the distinctly fatal poisons are thus excluded. 



34 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. Exclude those having an unpleasant odor, a 
peppery, bitter, or other unpalatable flavor, or tough 
consistency. 

3. Exclude those infested with worms, or in ad- 
vanced age or decay. 

4. In testing others which will pass the above pro- 
bation let the specimen be kept by itself, not in con- 
tact with or enclosed in the same basket with other 
species, for reasons given on page 69. 

Begin by a mere nibble, the size of a pea, and gen- 
tle mastication, being careful to swallow no saliva, and 

finally expelling all from the mouth- 
Testing If no noticeable results follow, the next 

new species trial, with the interval of a day, with 

the same quantity may permit of a 
swallow of a little of the juice, the fragments of the 
fungus expelled as before. 

No unpleasantness following for twenty-four hours, 
the third trial may permit of a similar entire fragment 
being swallowed, all of these experiments to be made 
on u an empty stomach." If this introduction of the 
actual substance of the fungus into the stomach is 
superseded by no disturbance in twenty-four hours, a 
larger piece, the size of a hazel-nut, may be attempted, 
and thus the amount gradually increased day by day 
until the demonstration of edibility, or at least harm- 
lessness, is complete, and the species thus admitted 
into the u safe " list. By following this method with 
the utmost caution the experimenter can at best suffer 
but a slight temporary indisposition as the result of 
his hardihood, in the event of a noisome species hav- 



INTRODUCTION 35 

ing been encountered, and will at least thus have the 
satisfaction of discovery of an enemy if not a friend. 

It may be said that any mushroom, omitting the 
Amanita, which is pleasant to the taste and other- 
wise agreeable as to odor and texture when raw, is 
probably harmless, and may safely be thus ventured 
on with a view of establishing its edibility. A prom- 
inent authority on our edible mush- 
nr. ricilvaine's rooms, already mentioned, applies this 
general rule rule to all the Agarics with confidence. 

44 This rule may be established," he 
says: "All Agarics  excepting the Amanitce  mild 
to the taste when raw, if they commend themselves 
in other ways, are edible." This claim is borne out 
in his experience, with the result, already told, that 
he now numbers over one hundred species among 
his habitual edible list out of the three hundred 
which he has actually found by personal test to be 
edible or harmless. " So numerous are toadstools," 
he continues, " and so well does a study of them 
define their habits and habitats, that the writer never 
fails upon any day from April to December to find 
ample supply of healthy, nutritious, delicate toadstools 
for himself and family? The italicized portion is 
my own, as I would thus emphasize the similar pos- 
sibilities amply afforded even in the present con- 
densed list of about thirty varieties herein described. 
In gathering mushrooms one should be supplied 
with a sharp knife. The mushroom should be care- 
fully cut off an inch or so below the cap, or at least 
sufficiently far above the ground to escape all signs 
of dirt on the stem. They should then be laid gills 



36 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

upward in their receptacle, and it is well to have a 
special basket, arranged with one or two removable 

bottoms or horizontal partitions, which 

Hl h** 10 - are ' ce P t * n P^ ace ty u P r *ght props 
gatherers within, thus relieving the lower layers 

of mushrooms from the weight of those 
above them. Such a basket is almost indispensable. 
Before preparing mushrooms for the table, the 
specimens should be carefully scrutinized for a class 

of fungus specialists which we have 
insects not taken into account, and which have 
mushrooms probably anticipated us. The mush- 
room is proverbial for its rapid de- 
velopment, but nature has not allowed it thus to 
escape the usual penalties of lush vegetation, as wit- 
ness this swarming, squirming host, minute grubs, 
which occasionally honey-comb or hollow its entire 
substance ere it has reached its prime; indeed, in 
many cases, even before it has fully expanded or 
even protruded above ground. 

Like the carrion-flies, the bees, and wasps, which in 
early times were believed to be of spontaneous origin 

 flies being generated from putrefac- 
History of tion, bees from dead bulls, and the mar- 
fungus insects tial wasps from defunct " war-horses" 

 these fungus swarms which so speed- 
ily reduce a fair specimen of a mushroom to a melt- 
ing loathsome mass, were also supposed to be the 
natural progeny of the u poisonous toadstool." But 
science has solved the riddle of their mysterious om- 
nipresence among the fungi, each particular swarm 
of grubs being the witness of a former visit of a ma- 



INTRODUCTION 37 

ternal parent insect, which has sought the budding 
fungus in its haunts often before it has fully revealed 

itself to human gaze, and implanted 

History of within its substance her hundred or 
fungus insects more eggs. To the uneducated eye 

these larvae all appear similar, but the 
specialist in entomology readily distinguishes between 
them as the young of this or that species of fly, gnat, 
or beetle. 

As an illustration of the assiduity with which the 
history of these tiny scavenger insects has been follow- 
ed by science, I may mention that in the gnat group 
alone over seven hundred species have been discov- 
ered and scientifically described, many of them re- 
quiring a powerful magnifier to reveal their identities. 

Specimens of infected or decaying mushrooms pre- 
served within a tightly closed box  and, we would 
suggest, duly quarantined  will at length reveal the 
imago forms of the voracious larvae: generally a swarm 
of tiny gnats or flies, with an occasional sprinkling 
of small glossy black beetles, or perhaps a beautiful 
indigo -blue insect half an inch in length, of most 
nervous habit, and possessed of a long and very ac- 
tive tail. This insect is an example of the curious 
group of rove-beetles  staphylimis  a family of insect 
scavengers, many of whose species depend upon the 
fungi for subsistence. 

Even the large woody growth known as "punk" 
or " touchwood," so frequently seen upon decaying 
trunks, is not spared. A huge specimen in my keep- 
ing was literally reduced to dust by a single species 
of beetle. 



38 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Considering the prevalence of these fungus hosts, 
it is well in all mushrooms to take the precaution 

of making a vertical section through 
a wise stem and cap, excluding such speci- 
precaution mens as are conspicuously monopo- 
lized, and not bein<j too critical of the 
rest, for the over -fastidious gourmet will often 
thus have little to show for his morning walk. I 
have gathered a hundred specimens of fungi in 
one stroll, perhaps not a quarter of which, upon 
careful scrutiny, though fair of exterior, would be 
fit for the table. The fungus -hunter par excellence 
has usually been there before us and left his mark 
(see page 135)  a mere fine brown streak or tunnel, 
perhaps, winding through the pulp or stem, where 
his minute fungoid identity is even yet secreted. 
But we bigger fungus -eaters gradually learn to ac- 
cept him  if not too outrageously promiscuous  
as a natural part and parcel of our Hachis aux 
Champignons, or our simple mushrooms on toast, 
even as we wink at the similar lively accessories 
which sophisticate our delectable raisins, prunes, and 
figs, to say nothing of prime old Rochefort ! 

MUSHROOM POISONING 

In conclusion, lest these pages, in spite of the im- 
press of caution with which they are weighted, should 
lead to discomfiture, distress, or more serious results 
among their more careless readers, it is well to devote 
a few lines to directions for medical treatment where 
such should seem to be required. To this end I 
quote a passage from an article in the Therapeutic 



INTRODUCTION 39 

Gazette of May, 1893, from the pen of Mr. Mcllvaine, 
whose many years' experience with gastronomic fun- 
gi entitles his words to careful consideration : 

" The physician called upon to treat a case of toad- 
stool poisoning need not wait to query after the va- 
riety eaten ; he need not wish to see a 
Diagnosis sample. His first endeavor should be 

and * . 

treatment to ascertain the exact time elapsing be- 
tween the eating of the toadstools and 
the first feeling of discomfort. If this is within four 
or five hours one of the minor poisons is at work, and 
rapid relief must be given by the administration of 
an emetic, followed by one or two moderate doses of 
sweet-oil and whiskey, in equal parts. Vinegar is ef- 
fective as a substitute for sweet-oil. If from eight to 
twelve hours have elapsed, the physician may rest as- 
sured that amanitine is present, and should adminis- 
ter one-sixtieth of a grain of atropine at once." 

This atropine is intended to be injected hypoder- 
mically, and the treatment repeated every half -hour 
until one-twentieth of a grain has been given, or the 
patient's life saved. 

Further consideration of the Amanita and its 
deadly poison and antidote, with details as to treat- 
ment in a notable case, will be reserved for the fol- 
lowing chapter. 

The colored plates in the volume were prepared 
from pencil drawings tinted in water-color, many of 
them direct from nature, several dating back fifteen 
years, and many of them over twenty years, for their 
original sketch. The colors as presented indicate 
those of typical individuals of the various species, and 



40 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

each, in addition to the extended description in the 
text of the volume, is faced by a condensed description 
for ready reference, the usual troublesome necessity 
of turning the pages being thus avoided. 

In each plate dimension marks are shown which 
indicate the expansion of the pileus or cap of the 
fungus in an ideal specimen. 



In the preparation of this work, acknowledgments 
are specially due to Messrs. Julius A. Palmer and 

Charles Mcllvaine for the privilege of 

Acknowiedg- liberal quotations from their published 

menu works, especially with reference to the 

poisonous fungi. The volume is also 

further indebted for occasional extracts from the 

standard works of Prof. Chas. Peck, Mrs. T. J. Hus- 

sey, Rev. Dr. C. D. Badham, Rev. Dr. M. C. Cooke, 

Rev. J. M. Berkeley, Worthington Smith, and Rev. 

M. A. Curtis, all of whose volumes and various other 

contributions on the special subject of mycophagy 

are included in my bibliography on a later page. 

W. Hamilton Gibson 

October i, 1894 Washington, Conn. 




c7he ufeadlygflmanita 



f i 



1. "titod, 

tiy^fmg.nita 




,HE frequency of this terrible foe in all 
our woods, and the ever- recurring fa- 
' tafities which are continually traced to 
jits seductive treachery (some twenty-five 
having been recorded in the public 
journals during the summer of 1S93 alone), render 
it important that its teeth should be drawn, and its 
portrait placarded and popularly familiarized as an 
archenemy of mankind. 

As we have seen, from every superficial standpoint, 
this species is self-commendatory. It is, without 
doubt, in comeliness, symmetry, and 
a whKed structure, the ideal of all our mush- 
sepulchre rooms, as it is, indeed, the botanical 
type of the tribe Agaricus, as well as 
its most notorious genus. Since the time of that 
carousing young lunatic Nero, who, doubtless, was 
wont to make merry with its " convenient poison," 
upon one occasion, it is recorded by Pliny, to the 
presumably amusing extinction of the entire guests 
of a banquet, together with the prefect of the guard 
and a small host of tribunes and centurions, the 
Amanita has claimed an army of victims. 

While giving no superficial token of its dangerous 



44 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

character to the casual observer, the Amanita, as a 
genus and a species, is nevertheless easily identified, 
if the mushroom collector will for the moment con- 
sider it from the botanical rather than 
Rifled the sensuous or gustatorial standpoint. 
botanicaiiy The deadly Amanita need no longer 

impose upon the fastidious feaste r in 
the guise of the dainty " legume " of his menu, or as 
a contaminating, fatal ingredient in the otherwise 
wholesome ragout. 

In Plate 3 I have presented the reprobate Amanita 
vernus in its protean progressive proportions from in- 
fancy to maturity. This is especially 
Amanita desirable, in that the fungus is equally 
vernus dangerous as an infant, and also be- 
cause the development of its growth 
specially emphasizes botanicaiiy the one important 
structural character by which the species or genus 
may be easily distinguished. Let us, then, consider 
the specimen as a type of the tribe Agaricus (gilled 
mushroom, see p. 79), genus Amanita. 

Year after year we are sure of finding this species, 
or others of the genus, especially in the spring and 
summer, its favorite haunt being the woods. Its 
spores, like other mushrooms, are shed upon the 
ground from the white gills beneath, as described in 
our chapter on " Spore-prints," or wafted to the ends 
of the earth on the breeze, and eventually, upon hav- 
ing found a suitable habitat, vegetate in the form of 
webby, white, mould-like growth  mycelium  which 
threads through the dead leaves, the earth, or decaying 
wood. This running growth is botanicaiiy considered 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 47 

as the true fungus, the final mushroom being the 
fruit, whose function is the dissemination of the 
spores. After a rain, or when the conditions are 
otherwise suitable, a certain point among this webby 

tangle beneath the ground becomes 
Vegetation suddenly quickened into astonishing 
of an Agaric cell-making energy, and a small round- 
ed nodule begins to form, which con- 
tinues to develop with great rapidity (Plate 2). In a 
few hours more it has pushed its head above ground, 
and now appears like an egg, as at A, Plate 3. The 
successive stages in its development are clearly in- 
dicated in the drawings. Each represents an interval 
of an hour or two, or more, the most suggestive and 
important feature being the outer envelope, or volva, 
which encloses the actual mushroom  at first com- 
pletely, then in a ruptured condition, until in the ma- 
ture growth the only vestige of it which appears 
above ground are the few shreds generally, though 
not always, to be seen on the top of the cap. The 
most important character of this deadly Amanita is, 

therefore, apparently with almost artful 

The danger malice prepense, often concealed from 

signal our view in the mature specimen, the 

only remnant of the original outer sack 

being the cup or socket about the base of the stem, 

which is generally hidden under ground, and usually 

there remains after we pluck the specimen. 

This " poison-cup " may be taken as the cautionary 
symbol of the genus Amanita, common to all the spe- 
cies. Any mushroom or toadstool, therefore, whose 
stem is tints set in a socket, or which has any suggestion 



48 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of stick a socket, should be labelled "poison "; for, though 
some of the species having this cup are edible, from 
the popular point of view, it is wiser and certainly 

safer to condemn the entire group. 

The But the cup must be sought for. We 

poison-cup shall thus at least avoid the possible 

danger of a fatal termination to our 
amateur experiments in gustatory mycology; for, 
while various other mushrooms might, and do, in- 
duce even serious illness through digestive disturb- 
ance, and secondary, possibly fatal, complications, 
the Amanita group are now conceded to be the only 
fungi which contain a positive, active poisonous prin- 
ciple whose certain logical consequence is death. 

Another structural feature of the Amanita is shown 
in the illustration, but has been omitted from the 

above consideration to avoid confusion. 

The veil" This is the "veil " which, in the young 

or shroud mushroom, originally connected the 

edge of the cap, or pileus, with the 
stem, and whose gradual rupture necessarily follows 
the expansion of the cap, until a mere frill or ring 
is left about the stem at the original point of contact. 
But this feature is a frequent character in many 
edible mushrooms, as witness the several examples in 
the edible species of our plates, and therefore of no 
dangerous significance per se, being merely a mem- 
brane which protects the growing gills. 

Nor are the other features, the remnants of the 
volva on the summit of the cap, to be considered of 
primary importance from the popular point of view, 
for the reason  firstly, that these fragments, while con- 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 5 1 

spicuous and constant in Amanita muscarius (Plate 
4), are not thus permanent in several other species 
of Amanitae, notably the white -satin -capped Ama- 
nita vernus, Amanita phalloides, and 
Scales and Amanita Ccesarca, in which the frag- 
scurfy spots ments are deciduous ; and, secondly, 

because the same general effect of 
these warty scales is so clearly imitated in other 
mushrooms which are distinctly edible, as in exam- 
ples Plate 10 and Plate 16. It is to the volva or 
cup, then, that we must devote our special attention 
as the only safe and constant character. And this 
leads me to the prominent and necessary considera- 
tion of another common species of Amanita, men- 
tioned above, in which even this cup is more or less 
obscure. 

THE POISONOUS FLY- MUSHROOM 
Agaricus (Amanita) muscarius 

This, one of the most strikingly beautiful of our 
toadstools, is figured in Plate 4. Its brilliant cap of 
yellow, orange, or even scarlet, studded with white 

or grayish raised spots, can hardly be 
A deceptive unfamiliar to even the least observant 
Amanita country walker. Its favorite habitat is 
the woods, and, in the writer's experi- 
ence especially, beneath hemlocks and poplars, where 
he has seen this species year after year in whole 
companies, and in all stages shown in the plate at 
the same time, from the globular young specimen 
almost covered with its white warts just lifting its 
head above the brown carpet to the fully expanded 



52 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

individual, in which the spots have assumed a 
shrunken and brownish tint. 

The consideration of this species is of the utmost 
importance, as its beauty is but an alluring mask, 
which has enticed many to their destruction ; among 
the more recent of its conspicuous victims having 
been the Czar Alexis of Russia. For this is another 
cosmopolitan type of mushroom, common alike in 
America, Great Britain, Europe, and Asia, in all of 
which countries it is notorious for its poisonous re- 
sources. It is commonly known as the u Fly-agaric," 

its substance macerated in milk having 
Used as a been employed for centuries as an ef- 
fly -poison fectual fly-poison. After the readers 

introduction to the botanical character 
of the Amanita, he would, presumably, be somewhat 
suspicious of the present species. The suggestive 
white or dingy fragments upon its cap, it is true, 
would alone arouse his suspicions, but in the exami- 
nation of the stem for the telltale volva or cup its 
verification might be somewhat in doubt. It is for 
this reason that the species is emphasized in these 

pages, as the Amanita muscarius^ judg- 

!ts ing from the great dissimilarity of its 

obscure cup numerous portraits from all countries, 

would seem to be remarkably protean, 
especially with reference to its stalk. The majority 
of the portraits of this reprobate presents the volva 
as distinct and as clean cut as in the A. vermis just 
described, and the stalk above as equally smooth, 
features which are usually at variance with the as- 
sociated botanical description of the species, which 




man itao miLkaztao 



.: :l -i- A".i: -.miai muscarius 



m \ : li.it ..it T ii;{Tii!':-v : 
..." ' ''ii I. becoming p.::- 

. '!  " Ve Vulvj. 

. : . \ -i.ii.us in lcnutl). :\\r 
i ;: . =i... i up with .in .lii-M-i 



  



 :; ; ;, : -..I ini^ species is snow :- 



 ; -v-- " ' .' '..:'M , 1l' .-!. iiiiTV. at ie-iiiih 
. , .*"' '.; ' .isefLie ink* til'.-' ionn 






'I 



 .-.  : J* :'."., .">! ,-:'\ -'1 



. ; . i . .  '. 1 1 v. : i 



.-. c. --iv ' ;\-.:!]^ Pi."! 



. .  .  . .. < . ; . 



THE DEADLY AMANITA $7 

often characterizes the volva as " incomplete " or " ob- 
scure," and the stem as " rough and scaly." If the 
portraits in these works are correct, the Amanita 
qualities of the species are clearly displayed, but if 
their accompanying descriptions are to be credited, 
and such seem to be in perfect accord with the spec- 
imens which I have always found, the A. muscarius 
would seem in need of a more authentic historian. 

The example figured in the plate presents the 
stem and volva as they have always appeared in 
specimens obtained by the writer. In the young 
individuals the stem is waxy-white, becoming later 
a dull, pale ochre hue, the lower half being shaggy 
and torn, and beset with loose projecting woolly 
points which resolve themselves below into scales 
with loose tips curved outward, and so distantly dis- 
posed upon the bulbous base as to leave no marked 
definition of the continuous rim or opening of a cup. 
But the cup is there, and in a section of the bud state 
of the mushroom could have been seen, even as in the 
white warts upon the surface of the younger speci- 
mens we note the evidences of the upper portion of 

the same white volva. In many other 
Volva scales species of Amanita, notably A. vermis, 
permanent as already mentioned, these volva frag- 
ments generally wither and are shed 
from the cap. They are thus not to be counted on 
as a permanent token. But in the fly -mushroom 
they form a distinct character, as they adhere firmly 
to the smooth skin of the pileus, and in drying, instead 
of shrivelling and curling and falling off, simply 
shrink, turn brownish, and in the maturely expanded 



S* 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



mushroom appear like scattered drops of mud which 
have dried upon the pileus. Another peculiar struct- 
ural feature of this mushroom is shown in the sec- 
tional drawing herewith given. The shorter gills, 
instead of rounding off as they approach the pileus 




OF FLY-AMANITA 



(see a), terminate abruptly almost at right angles to 
their edge. The contrast from the usual form will 
be more apparent by comparison with the section of 
the parasol - mushroom on page 1 14. 

Few species of mushrooms have such an inter- 
esting history as this. Its deadly properties were 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 59 

known to the ancients. From the earliest times its 
deeds of notoriety are on record. 

This is quite possibly the species alluded to by 
Pliny as "very conveniently adapted for poisoning," 

and is not improbably the mushroom 
Historical referred to by this historian in the fol- 
Amanita lowing quotation from his famous Nat- 
ural History: u Mushrooms are a dainty 
food, but deservedly held in disesteem since the no- 
torious crime committed by Agrippina, who through 
their agency poisoned her husband, the Emperor 
Claudius; and at the same moment, in the person 
of her son Nero, inflicted another poisonous curse 
upon the whole world, herself in particular." 

Notwithstanding its fatal character, this mushroom, 
it is said, is habitually eaten by certain peoples, to 
whom the poison simply acts as an intoxicant. In- 
deed, it is customarily thus employed as a narcotic 
and an exhilarant in Kamchatka and Asiatic Russia 

generally, where the Amanita drunkard 

Amanita supplants the opium fiend and alcohol 

dipsomaniacs dipsomaniac of other countries. Its 

narcotizing qualities are commemo- 
rated by Cooke in his Seven Sisters of Sleeps wherein 
may be found a full description of the toxic employ- 
ment of the fungus. 

The writer has heard it claimed that this species 
of Amanita has been eaten with impunity by certain 
individuals; but the information has usually come 
from sources which warrant the belief that another 
harmless species has been confounded with it. The 
warning of my Frontispiece may safely be extended 



6o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

to the fly-amanita. Its beautiful gossamer veil may 
aptly symbolize a shroud. 

By fixing these simple structural features of the 
Amanita in mind, and emphasizing them by a study 
of our Frontispiece, we may now consider ourselves 

armed against our greatest foe, and 

Forewarned ma y ^fa some assurance make our 

forearmed limited selection among this lavish lard- 
er of wild provender continually going 
to waste by the ton in our woods and pastures and 
lawns. For it is now a fact generally believed by 
fungologists, and being gradually demonstrated, that 
the edible species, far from being the exception, as 
formerly regarded, are the rule; that a great majority 
of our common wild fungi are at least harmless, if 
not positively wholesome and nutritious as food. 

THE POISONOUS ALKALOID 

The toxic and deadly effects of certain mushroom 
poisons, as already described, have been known since 
ancient times; and the prolonged intoxicating de- 
bauches to-day prevalent among the Amanita dipso- 
maniacs of Northern Russia and Kamchatka, con- 
sequent upon the allurements of the decoction of the 
fly-agaric, are well-known matters of history. 

The true chemical character of this poison, however, 
was not discovered until 1868, when it was successfully 
isolated by chemical analyses of Drs. Vigier, Schmiede- 
berg, Currie, and Koppe, and ascertained to be an 
alkaloid principle, to which was given originally the 
name of bulbosine, since variously known as musca- 
rine, and finally and most appropriately amanitine. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 6l 

The poison thus identified, it was reserved to an 
American authority on edible fungi, Mr. Julius A. 

Palmer, of Boston, to discover the fact 
Mr. Palmer's of its confinement to but one fungus 
discovery family  the Amanita. 

In the year 1879, in an article con- 
tributed by him to the Moniteur Scientifigue y of 
Paris, he states : 

" Mushrooms are unfit for food by decay or other 
cause, producing simply a disagreement with the sys- 
tem by containing some bitter, acrid, or slimy element, 
or by the presence of a wonderful and dangerous alka- 
loid which is absorbed in the intestinal canal. This 
alkaloid, so far as known, is found only in the Ama- 
nita family '." 

To Mr. Palmer, then, is due the chemical segrega- 
tion of the Amanita group as the only repository of 
this deadly toxic. 

It has not been discerned in other species of fungi, 
whose so-called " poisonous " effects are more often 

traceable to mere indigestibility, the 

Lesser selection of "over- ripe" specimens, or 

poisoning: to idiosyncrasy, rather than to their 

distinctly poisonous properties. 
Many mushrooms of other families which do pos- 
sess ingredients chemically at war with the human 
system  as the Russula emctica and certain Lacta- 
rii, for instance  at least give a fair warning, either 
by taste or odor, of their dark intentions. 

Owing to the numerous deaths every year conse- 
quent upon mushroom -eating, and nearly always 
directly traceable to the Amanita, the discovery of 



62 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

an antidote to this poison has been the quest of 
many noted chemists  several supposed antidotes 

having been experimented with upon 

Antidote dogs and other animals without desired 

for Amanita results. These included atropine, the 

deadly crystalline alkaloid from the 
Atropa belladonna. The earlier experiments upon 
animals with this drug in Paris, as described by Dr. 
Gautier in 1884, while encouraging, were not con- 
sidered conclusive, but were sufficient to warrant 
the suggestion that the treatment upon man might 
be effective. In a resume of the subject in the 
Philadelphia Medical and Surgical Reporter^ De- 
cember, 1885, for the benefit of the medical prac- 
titioners who are so frequently called upon to attend 
cases of mushroom poisoning, Captain Charles Mcll- 
vaine recommended the administration of a dose of 
atropine of from 0.05 to 0.0002 milligramme, and it 

was later reserved for the same gentle- 
First authentic man to witness the first authentic in- 
ap plication stance of the application of this remedy 

in antagonism with the Amanita poison 
in the human system. The report of this experi- 
ence was afterwards published (see Bibliography, 
No. 6), embodying also a complete and authentic ac- 
count of the symptoms and treatment of the cases 
by the attending physician, Dr. J. E. Shadle, of 
Shenandoah, Pa., which account I feel is appropri- 
ately included here, being in full sympathy with the 
solicitous spirit of my pages. I therefore quote the 
statement of Dr. Shadle for the benefit of those in- 
terested. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 63 

Shenandoah, Pa., October 26, 1885. 
Mr. Chas. McIlvaine : 

My dear Sir, In compliance with your request, I take pleasure 
in submitting to your consideration the following report of five 
cases of toadstool-poisoning which recently came under my ob- 
servation and treatment : 

On Monday, August 31, at 10 a.m., I was hastily called to see 
a family, consisting of Mr. F., his wife, his mother-in-law, Mrs. R., 

and his brother-in-law, Thomas R., who, the 
Amanita messenger stated, were having " cramps in the 
poisoning: bowels.'' 

symptoms Promptly responding to the call, I found them 

suffering from intense abdominal pains, nausea, 
vomiting, boneache, and feelings of distress in the precordial 
region. 

Mr. F., twenty-nine years of age, was a miner by occupation, 
and had led an intemperate life. Mrs. F., twenty-two years of 
age, was a brunette, possessing a delicate body, and bearing a 
decided neurotic tendency. Mrs. R., forty-five years of age, was a 
small ncrvo-biiious woman. Thomas R., thirteen years of age, was 
a youth well developed. 

While I was examining these patients, Mrs. B., forty years of 
age, a neighbor of the family, presented herself, manifesting in a 
milder degree the same symptoms. She was a tall, spare woman. 
Previous to their present attack of illness their general health was 
good ; in none could signs of disease be traced. 

Picture to your mind five persons suffering from cholera morbus 
in its most aggravated form, and you will be enabled to form a 
pretty correct idea of what I beheld in the Faris residence on 
Monday morning, August 31. 

That five, individuals, four being members of one household, 
should be attacked simultaneously by a similar train of symptoms, 
naturally gave rise in my mind to a suspicion that something poi- 
sonous had been eaten. Upon close inquiry I obtained the fol- 
lowing history : 

On the afternoon of Sunday, August 30, Mr. F. and Thomas R. 
were walking through a wood not far distant from their home, 
and, in wandering from place to place, found clusters of very 



64 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

beautiful toadstools growing abundantly under trees, among which 
the chestnut predominated. 

Attracted by their appearance, and supposing them to be edi- 
ble, they gathered a large quantity, with the anticipation of hav- 
ing a delicious dish for their Sunday evening 

Amanita meal - 
poisoning Various other kinds were growing in the same 

symptoms locality, but this particular variety impressed 

them as being the most inviting. A correct 

specimen of the fungus they had collected having been sent 

you, I will leave its botanical description to your pen. 

At about nine o'clock, fat hours after gathering them, Mrs. F. 
cooked three pints of the toadstools, stewing them in milk, and 
seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt. 

They had dinner at a very early hour on this day, and by the 
time they had supper all felt exceedingly hungry, in consequence 
of which they ate quite heartily. Mrs. F. and her brother vied 
with each other as to the quantity they could eat. In addition 
to this dish, bread and butter and coffee were served. 

Soon after supper the family retired. None experienced the 
least discomfort until towards daybreak, when considerable dis- 
tress in the abdominal organs and cerebral disturbance manifested 
themselves. Prominent among the initial symptoms were foul 
breath, coated tongue, pain in the stomach, nausea, and a peculiar 
sickening sensation in the epigastrium. These symptoms gradual- 
ly increased in severity, and in twelve hours after the ingestion 
of the poison, when I made my first visit, the condition of the 
victims involved great danger. Intense vomiting was present in 
four, while in Mrs. R.'s case a violent retching seemed to persist. 

Gastro-intestinal irritation, followed by a relaxed condition of 
the bowels, showed itself in about thirty hours after the onset of 
the more active symptoms. With the appearance of this trouble 
an insufferable tenesmus developed, producing paroxysms of 
severe agony. This was particularly true in the case of Mrs. R., 
whose suffering was so great that it became a formidable symptom 
to combat. Upon the subsidence of the more severe symptoms, 
the patients fell into a state of extreme prostration, accompanied 
by stupor and cold extremities. In the mother, son, and daughter 
this was profoundly marked. They were completely indifferent 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 65 

to persons and things around them, as well as to their own suf- 
fering. 

As the symptoms increased in violence, Thos. R. advanced into 
a state of coma, and Mrs. F. into coma vigil, and remained so for 

about twelve hours prior to death. The face 

Amanita na d a shrunken and wrinkled appearance, the 

poisoning: eyes were sunken, the skin was dusky, and the 

symptoms surface of the body was dry and cold to the 

touch. The pulse, a number of hours before 
death, was imperceptible at the wrist, and the heart-sounds were 
scarcely perceived by auscultation. 

The pulse in all cases was notably affected, ranging from 120 
to 140 per minute. In character it was soft and compressible.; 
intermittent at intervals. 

There was a distinct rise of temperature ; the thermometer in 
the axilla registered as much as 104 F. 

A mild form of delirium was an occasional event. In the case 
of Mrs. F. it formed an important element. 

Respecting the special senses, it is well to mention that sight 
was peculiarly affected. Notwithstanding the fact that the pupils 
responded kindly to the action of the light, an unpleasant sensa- 
tion of blindness frequently appeared, and continued for a few 
minutes. 

In spite of all that was done to counteract its ravages, the ef- 
fects of the poison were so extremely deadly that a fatal issue 
was the result in two cases. Thomas R. died in fifty-six and Mrs. 
F. in sixty-three hours after the ingestion of the toadstools. 

Treatment.  The treatment instituted was mainly symptomatic. 

Fearing that undigested particles of toadstools might still be 
lying in the gastro-intestinal tract, to Mrs. R., who had not freely 

vomited, an emetic was administered, and to 

Amanita the rest a mild P ur g e - 
poisoning An intense thirst and a burning sensation 

treatment being present in the mouth, throat, and stomach, 

small pieces of cracked ice were freely used with 

a view to allaying it. 

For the gastro-intestinal irritation I prescribed with satisfactory 

results the following : 



66 * EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

R Bismuth submit., 3v ; 
Creosote, gtt. xv ; 
Mucil. acaciae, ffi ; 
Aq. menth. pip., q.s. ad ffiii. M. 
Sig.  Teaspoonful every one or two hours. 

7s grain of morph. sulph. was administered hypodermically to 
alleviate as much as possible the abdominal suffering. 

The impending exhaustion and the failing heart's action I en- 
deavored to combat with a free administration of alcoholic stimu- 
lants in combination with moderate doses of tincture of digitalis 
both by the mouth and under the skin. 

In order to invite the circulation of the blood to the ice-cold 
surface of the body, heated bricks and bottles filled with hot water 
were placed in bed around the patients. 

Analyzing each symptom as it arose, and carefully observing 
the effects of the poison on the system, I formed the opinion thai 

the toxic element contained in the noxious fun- 
gus eaten by these people was narcotic in its 
Diagnosis nature and spent its force on the nerve centres, 

especially selecting the one governing the func- 
tion of respiration and the action of the heart. 

Acting upon this conclusion, I began, in the early part of my 
treatment, subcutaneous injections of sulphate of atropine in fre- 
quently-repeated doses, ranging from T J ff to ^ grain. The in- 
jections invariably were followed by a perceptible improvement in 
the patient ; the heart's action became stronger, the pulse returned 
at the wrist, and the respiration increased in depth and fulness. 

Through the agency of this remedy, supported by the other 
measures adopted, three (or sixty per cent.) of the patients re- 
covered. 

The lessons I draw from this experience are : 

i. The poisoning produced by this variety of toadstool is slow 
in manifesting its effects. 

2. That it destroys life by a process of asthenia. 

3. That in atropine we have an antidote, and it should be pushed 
heroically from the earliest inception of the action of the poison. 

I have the honor to remain 

Yours very respectfully, 

J. E. Shadle, M.D. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 67 

In reply to the queries, Was atropine administered 
in all the cases? and What was the total amount 
administered to each? Dr. Shadle responded as fol- 
lows : 

Shenandoah, Pa., October 29, 1885. 
My dear Mr. McIlvaine : 

Yours of the 27th I have received. The two questions you ask 
me therein I see are very important, and they should be answered 
as fully as possible. I am sorry I overlooked the matter in my 
report. 

Before attempting an answer, it is well for me to note right 

here that Mrs. B., the neighbor, did not eat very much of the 

toadstool stew ; Mrs. R. and Mr. F. each ate 

... about the same quantity  from one and one- 

Amanltine , .. , , , r~, .  

. A . half to two platefuls. This is according to 
and atropine _ . , v ^ b 

Fans s statement. But the two fatal cases  

Thomas R. and Mrs. F.  tried to see which 

could eat the most, and consequently got their full share of the 

poison. The cat mentioned before had about a tablespoonful of 

the broth, and they tell me she was very sick. Whether or not 

she died is not known. 

Now as to the treatment by atropine, I think I can approximate 
a pretty correct statement in reply to your queries. Not knowing 
that atropine was considered an antidote, I began its employment 
in the treatment of these cases from the physiological knowledge 
I had of the drug relative to its action in other diseases in which 
there was heart-failure and embarrassed respiration. 

When I saw the U. S. Dispensatory suggested it, I of course felt 
it my duty to use it, as I could find nowhere anything else men- 
tioned as an antidote. I feel convinced that it was by means of 
the atropine that I saved three of the five patients. Why do I 
think so ? Because whenever I would administer the remedy the 
patient rallied, the pulse returned at the wrist, the heart-sounds 
became stronger, and the respiration increased in strength and 
fulness. What more conclusive evidence do I want than this to 
show as to how the agent was acting ? 

When I first saw the patients  twelve hours after the ingestion 



68 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of the poison  their symptoms were alike, one suffering as much 
as the other (August 31). I began the use of the alkaloid in 

the evening of the same day, when I saw the 

Administration powers of life giving way, the heart failing, and 

of antidote the respiration becoming shallow. It was used 

in all the cases as follows : 

Mrs. B., jfo, fa, fa, or yl^, or fa gr. 

Mr. F., T j^ fa, fa, *V> or rh g r - 

Mrs. R., y^, fa, fa, fa, or ih g r - 

Thos. R., -j^, fa, fa, fa, fa, or y-j^, or fa gr. 

Mrs. F., T ^, fa, fa, fa, fa, or y| v , or fa gr. 

In accordance with the above formulae the drug was admin- 
istered. I visited the patients at intervals of six or eight hours, 
and at each visitation they received an injection in the doses 
above mentioned. From this we see that in all Mrs. B. received 
gr. fa of atropine ; Mr. F. received gr. y^ of atropine ; Mrs. R. 
received gr. j^-q of atropine ; Thos R. (fatal) received gr. fa of 
atropine ; Mrs. F. (fatal) received gr. fa of atropine. 

The alkaloid failing to save the two that died I think can be 
attributed to one of two causes, or probably both : 

1. That the use of atropine was begun too late and not used 
heroically enough. 

2. That so much of the poison was taken up by the system in 
these cases that it became too virulent to counteract. 

From the history of the cases I know they ate by far the largest 
quantity. My opinion leans towards the first probable cause I 
have mentioned. 

Another fact worth stating here is that the pupils never became 
affected by the administration of these doses. 

Hoping this will make the matter satisfactory, I remain 

Yours truly, J. E. Shadle. 

The interval between the ingestion and the symp- 
toms is, therefore, a most important aid in the diag- 
nosis of a case of mushroom poisoning; and in the 
event of an Amanita, heretofore absolutely fatal, it is 
presumably under the control of medical science, now 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 69 

that the deadly toxic principle has at last found its 
enemy in the neutralizing properties of the equally 
deadly atropine. 

It would seem, moreover, from the severe personal 
experience of Mr. Julius A. Palmer, that the poison 
of the Amanita is quite capable of mischief without 
being taken into the digestive organs. So volatile is 
this dangerous alkaloid that it may produce violent 
effects upon the system either through its odor alone, 
or by simple contact with the skin and consequent 
absorption. 

Mr. Palmer, in his before-mentioned article in the 
Moniteur Scientifique^ Paris, relates the following ex- 
periences : 

44 Once while perspiring from a long walk I under- 
took to bring in a large bunch of the Amanita for 

an artist. Seated in a close car, hold- 
Poisons j n g them in my warm hand, although 

by contact & J & 

and odor protected by a paper wrapper, a fearful 

nausea overcame me. The toadstool 
was not at first suspected, yet I had all the symptoms 
of a sea-sick person, and was only relieved by a 
wide distance between myself and the exciting cause. 
44 While writing this article," he continues, " a friend 
sent me two very elegant specimens of the Amanita 
tribe. They were in a confined box. On opening 
it I smelled of them a few times, and allowed the 
box to lie near my desk while I wrote to a medical 
gentleman anxious to procure such for chemical ex- 
periment. Having sent them away the matter was 
dismissed from my mind for three hours after, when, 
by an attack of vomiting and oppression at the stom- 



70 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ach, they were enforced upon my attention. The 
whites of my eyes became livid, and even until noon 
the day following the leaden color of my face was 
noticed by more than one person." 

The moral of this story is that the less the reader 
has to do with Amanita fungi the better. Let them 

^have a wide berth, or at most an an- 
A wide berth nihilating kick, lest by their alluring 

to Amanita beauty they tempt the next unwary 

traveller who shall encounter them. 

But you desire a specimen " to show a friend," or 
"to make a photograph of, or a sketch," perhaps. 
In such case it were well to consider further the ex- 
periences of Mr. Palmer, which will show the wisdom 
of keeping your gustatorial and artistic mycology 
in separate expeditions, or at least of providing your 
poison-exhaling Amanita specimen with a cage by it- 
self. In the same article he continues : 

" Mushrooms make the same use of the atmosphere 
as men, even their exhalations are accordingly viti- 
ated with their properties. Those not 

Mushrooms deadly thus attack humanity  namely, 

by contact by absorption of their essential elements 

by the whole system. They also in- 
oculate each other with or without contact, so that if 
edible and noxioits toadstools are gathered together the 
former will absorb the properties of the latter? 

In proof of this assertion he instances a personal 
experience as follows : " About four years ago a num- 
ber of poisonous mushrooms (not Amanitae, but of a 
totally different family) were sent me with edible fun- 
gus. The two varieties had lain twelve hours in the 



THE DEADLY AMANITA J I 

same box. The noxious ones were rejected, and the 
esculent washed and eaten. In a moment my appe- 
tite was gone ; violent perspiration, vertigo, and trem- 
bling were the next symptoms; then chills, nausea, 
purging, and tenesmus, all within thirty minutes. Now 
the substance could not have reached the intestines. 
The virus absorbed from the noxious fungus perme- 
ated the whole system through eating the harmless 
ones ; unmixed with other food it acted upon the 
muscles through an empty stomach ; once spent, the 
ailment passed off," etc. 

From these and other experiences he draws the 
following conclusions: The poisonous principle of a 

fungus being absorbed by a harmless 
Poison element, if the latter be eaten the ven- 

extracted 

by vinegar om acts more quickly. In reinforce- 
ment of this he states that " if the 
Amanita be cut in sections and laid in vinegar the 
fungus may be eaten without danger to life ; but on 
a very small dose of the vinegar, death will follow 
more speedily than if the whole toadstool be eaten." 
Further interesting matter upon this topic is con- 
tained in the article from which I quote, and to 
which the reader is referred in his volume included 
in my bibliographical list. The work also contains 
numerous other collected articles of Mr. Palmers 
upon this subject of fungi, to which he has devoted 
so much attention, and with which his name has be- 
come so popularly identified in America. 

The allusion to vinegar as an absorbent of the poi- 
son suggests the prevalent habitual use of salt as a 
safeguard by many in the employment of the fungus 



J2 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as food, as both of these ingredients play a prominent 
part in a fungus cuisine. It is averred by some writ- 
ers that one of the most noxious of 
Effect of salt Amanitae  the Fly-agaric  is eaten in 
and heat some countries, notably Russia, without 

unpleasant results, while it is confident- 
ly asserted to be harmless after, as it were, having 
its venom drawn by a soaking in brine previous to 
cooking. Boiling  both in the possible neutralizing 
of the poison through heat, and in the withdrawal of 
the same in the solution  would also be contributive 
to safety in such cases, provided the tainted liquid 
were not retained as in a stew or soup. 

On this topic it is interesting to note the epicure- 
an perversity of a certain French author, who, in the 

face of the already overwhelming abun- 
Epicurean dance of nature's esculent species of 
perversity fungi, must needs include all the deadly 

Amanitae as well, though he gives a rec- 
ipe by which the poison is extracted by the copious 
aid of salt, vinegar, boiling water, and drawing. This 
process, on general principles, might invite humorous 
speculation as to the appetizing qualities of the resid- 
ual morsel thus acquired, or as to the advisability of 
deliberately selecting a poisonous substance for the 
desideratum of the washed-out, corned, spiced, non- 
descript remnant which survives the process of ex- 
traction, not only of its noxious properties, but of 
even what nutriment it might possibly contain. 

Fancy a beefsteak similarly " prepared," all its nour- 
ishing ingredients extracted and thrown away; its ex- 
hausted remnant of muscular fibre now the mere ab- 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 73 

sorbent vehicle for vinegar, salt, lemon-juice, butter, 
nutmeg, garlic, spice, cloves, and other seeming indis- 

pensables to the preparation of the 
Mushrooms Champignon a la mode! 
a la mode The verdict of the extreme fungus 

epicure upon the delectable flavor of 
this or that mushroom must indeed be taken cum 
grano salts, the customary culinary treatment, or 
maltreatment, of these delicately flavored fruits hav- 
ing for its apparent object the elimination as far 
as possible of any suggestion of the true flavor of 
the fungus. I fancy that even the caustic, rebellious 
root of the Indian -turnip or the skunk-cabbage thus 
tamed and subdued in a smothering emollient of 
spiced gravy or ragout might negatively serve a pur- 
pose as more or less indigestible pabulum. 

While, as already mentioned, a few of this genus 
Amanita are edible, it is well in concluding our 

chapter to emphasize the caution of 
Enough with- an earlier page as to the absolute ex- 
out Amanita elusion of the entire genus from the 

bill of fare of the amateur mycophagist 
There is an abundance of wholesome, delicious fungi 
at our doors without them. 

Many species of Amanita are to be found more or 
less frequently in company with the esculent varieties 
recommended in the chapters following. Among 
these the two extremes of variation from the typical 
form are seen in the A. muscarius in its permanent 
retention of the volva scales and the obscurity of its 
cup, and in the A. phalloidcs, herewith pictured about 
half natural size, with the frequent entire absence of 



74 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



these remnant scales, which wither and fall off, leav- 
ing the yellowish or greenish cap perfectly smooth. 

It is to the volva or cup, then, that we must turn 
for the one fixed permanent character by which this 
genus is to be identified. 




AMANITA PHAI.LUIDES 





JUR introductory description of the Ama- 
nita presents the most perfect botan- 
ical type of a large division of the 
f j|| fungus tribe, the Agaricatea, or gill- 
bearing mushrooms, one of the two 
great orders of fungi which include the large major- 
ity of edible species. 

A brief consideration of the general classification 
of fungi will not be out of place at the head of this 
chapter. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FUNGI 

A fungus is a cellular cryptogamous (flowerless) 
plant, nourished through its spawn or mycelium in 
place of roots, living in air, and propagated by spores. 

Fungi  mycetes  are naturally subdivided into two 
great divisions: 

1. Sporifera  those in which the spores or repro- 
ductive bodies are naked or soon exposed, as shown 
in illustration on page 79. 

2. Sporidiifera  in which the spores are envel- 
oped in sacs or asci. These resemble in shape the 
eysiidium of illustration on page 79. 



78 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



The first of these divisions  the Sporifera, or 
naked -spored fungi  is again subdivided into four 
families, as follows : 

i. Hymenomycetes. Hymenium, or spore- bearing 
surface, exposed and conspicuous, as seen in the 
common mushroom and all Agarics and Polyporei. 

2. Gasteromycetes (gaster, a belly). Hymenium, or 
spore- bearing surface, enclosed in a more or less 
spherical case, called the peridium, which ruptures 
and expels the spores at maturity in the form of dust, 
as in the puff-balls. 

3. ConiomyceteSy from the Greek /ccwts, meaning 
dust, the entire fungus having a dust-like appearance. 
Mildew forms a good example of this family. 

4. Hyphomycetes, from the Greek v<f>a, meaning a 
thread. Thread-like fungi, the filaments being more 
conspicuous than the spore masses, of which group 
blue-mould affords an illustration. 

The Hymenomycetes (1) is again subdivided into 




six orders, the discrimination being based on the 
diverse character of the spore surface. The first of 
these orders is the Agaricini,ox gill-bearing fungi, 
to which our present chapter will be confined. 



porophor 



AGARICINI 

In this order the hymenium, or spore-bearing sur- 
face, is inferior, i.e., on the under side of the pileus, 
and is spread over lamella? or gills, which radiate 
from the stem of the fungus, and each of which may 
be separated into two filmy flat divisions. 

On the opposite page is shown an Agaric in ver- 
tical section, disclosing a full side view of the gills. 
A highly magni- 
fied view of this 
gill-surface is in- 
dicated herewith, 
duly indexed, the 
sporophore being 
shown in the act of 
shedding its spores 
from their points 
of attachment to 
the four stigmata 
at the summit. These fruitful four-pointed sporo- 
phores or basidia are intermingled with the cystidia 
and sterile cells, the whole mass forming the surface 
of the hymenium. The dissemination of the Agaric 
is further considered in a later chapter on " Spore- 
prints." 

The most perfect botanical type of the Agarics 
is the Amanita, already sufficiently dwelt upon. 

We will now proceed to the consideration of other 
examples in which the symbol of the fatal cup is 
happily absent, and whose identities as esculent spe- 
cies are clearly denoted by individual characteristics. 




SPORE-SURFACE MAGNIFIED 



EDIBLE AGARICS 



MEADOW MUSHROOM 
Agaricus campestris 

Perhaps the one species which enjoys the widest 
range of popular confidence as the " mushroom " in 
the lay mind, as distinguished from " toadstool," is the 
Agaricus campestris^ known as the " meadow mush- 
room " (Plate 5). It is the species commonly exposed 

in our markets. Its cultivation is an 
"The" important industry, but it often yields 

mushroom an enormous spontaneous harvest in 

its native haunts. The plate shows 
a cluster of the mushrooms in their various stages 
of development, the detached specimen below rep- 
resenting the semi -opened condition in which the 
fungus is usually gathered for market. It will be ob- 
served that the base of the stem is entirely free from 
any suggestion of a volva or cup. As its popular 
name implies, this species in its wild state is one of 
the voluntary tributes of our late summer and autumn 
meadows and pastures, though it may occasionally 
frequent lawns, shrubberies, and barn-yards. In size 

it varies from two to three and a half 

Description i nc h es across the pileus or cap, which is 

Campestris either smooth or slightly rough, scaly, 

or scurfy, and creamy white or tawny in 
color, according to age or variety. The most im- 
portant distinguishing feature of this species is the 
color of the gills. If we break away the " veil " in the 



! 



I 
i 

t 

t 

* 
I 
2 

f 






< 



i 




azlcud campedtzid 



 . rrr v 



 .  



v,! SliK'XJM" 



Aj. incus rampestris 



\ v i- 



Cr 



S1 ,. 



.  I * 
.   I I 



!:: \.:m\ w liiu- it- li^hi I- 

i'.ill .-.  '.? .'':: tluvr in-.'hr^. 

'. ! >.:' "' :s" vii ! M:st !^-:j1iJ. I"-. i; 

! * . >,-. .'V \ ..".* i!lv : i i :  i   > t hi . 

     ; n  -, J- -J ', J   *   



 i 



'.-an 



. r  






 * .  \ i  I i  '  



'PLATE V 

"THE MUSHROOM" 

Agaricus campestris 

Pileus : At first globular, its edge connected to stem by the 
veil ; then round convex, at length becoming possibly 
almost flat. Surface dry, downy, or even quite scaly, 
varying in color from creamy white to light brown. 
Diameter at full expansion, about three inches. 

Gills: Unequal in length; pink when first revealed, becoming 
brownish, brown, purplish, and finally almost black. 

Stem: Solid; of the color of the cap; paler and white in 
section, retaining the remnant of the veil in a permanent 
ragged ring. 

Spores: Brown. 

Taste : Sweet and inviting, and odor agreeable. 

Habitat: Pastures, lawns, and open rich soil generally. 

Season: Late summer and early autumn, occasionally in 
spring. 



AGARICS 85 

unopened specimen, we find them to be of a pallid 
flesh tint. In the more advanced state they become 
decidedly pinkish, with age and expansion gradually 
deepening to purplish, purple-brown, and finally brown- 
ish black. The gills are of unequal lengths, as shown 
in the section. The stem is creamy white and of solid 
substance, and always shows the remains of the veil 
in a persistent frill or ring just beneath the cap. 

Doubtless a sufficient and satisfactory reason for 
the universal dignity which this species has acquired 

as "the mushroom" may be found in 

Cultivation the fact that it is the only species 
of mushrooms prominently under cultivation, and al- 
most the only one which is sure to 
respond to the artificial cultivation of its spawn in 
the so-called "mushroom bed/' The "spawn" of 
the Campestris has thus become a mercantile com- 
modity, duly advertised in the seedsmen's catalogues. 

This so-called spawn is in truth nothing but the 
mycelium, or subterranean vine of the mushroom (see 

Plate 2), taken from the beds in which 

Mushroom the mushrooms have been grown, or 
spawn" bed i n which the mycelium has been culti- 
vated. The cultivator simply prepares 
a "bed" to receive it  duplicating as far as possible 
the soil conditions from which it was taken, whether 
from foreign cultivation or his old manure-bed or 
stable-yard  a rich, warm compost of loam and horse- 
manure, this latter ingredient being a most important 
consideration, as the fungus in its several varieties, 
notably the larger, Agaricus arvcnsis, known as the 
"horse-mushroom," has followed the track of the horse 

6 



86 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

around the world. These natural conditions having 
been even approximately fulfilled, will, within two 
months, generally reward the cultivator with a crop of 
mushrooms, which, with the continued ramifications of 
the mycelium permeating the muck as the yeast fun- 
gus permeates the home-made loaf, will insure a con- 
tinual succession of crops for weeks or months, to be 
renewed spontaneously, perhaps, the following season. 

The present volume, having specific reference to 
fungi in their wild state, and the celebration of their 
esculent virtues, being thus essentially in antithesis 
to artificial culture, further consideration of the cul- 
tivation of the mushroom is omitted. The reader is 
referred to the volumes in my bibliographical list, 
Nos. 8 and 22, in which full instructions will be found. 

The Campestris is conspicuous among mushrooms 
in its ready accommodation to artificial imitation of 

its native environment. There is no 
Species other mushroom which is thus confi- 

opposed to 

cultivation dently to be relied on. Other species  

not a dozen, however, out of the thou- 
sands  will occasionally reward the cultivator, who 
has devoted the most scrupulous care to the humor- 
ing of their fastidious conditions of growth. Thus 
the Agaricus candicans of the Italian markets is said 
to have been successfully raised from chips of the 
white poplar which have been properly covered with 

manure. Other species, it is claimed, 

Certain can be humored from a block of the 

exceptions cob-nut tree after singeing its surface 

over burned straw, while Dr. Thore 
claims that both Boletus edulis, and Agaricus pro- 



AGARICS 87 

cerus are/ 4 constantly raised by the inhabitants of his 
district from a watery infusion of said plants poured 
upon the ground." The truth of these statements 
has been denied by authorities, and individual exper- 
iment will only tend to discredit their trustworthiness. 
In general the mushroom or toadstool absolutely re- 
fuses to be " coaxed or cajoled." The mycelium of all 
is practically identical; but species such as the Co- 
prinus, for instance, which are perhaps found growing 
naturally in company with the Campestris, and whose 
spawn is similarly transplanted to the artificial en- 
vironment, will show no sign of reappearance, while 
its fellow may literally crowd the bed. 

The " fairy-ring " mushroom grows year after year 
upon our lawn, because its mycelium is continually 
present, simply threading its way outwardly, inch by 
inch, in the congenial surrounding soil. Instances 
are reported of the occasional successful establishment 
of this mushroom in new quarters by the transfer of a 
clod of earth threaded with mycelium taken from the 
"fairy-ring" to another lawn, in which the immediate 
soil conditions happened to be harmonious, and this 
method of actual transference of the spawn might oc- 
casionally be effectual. But the writer, in his limited 
number of experiments, has never yet been able to 

propagate a mushroom by a transfer of 
Not to be the spores to soil where the conditions 
humored would appear to be exactly suitable. 

On a certain lawn, for instance, every 
year I obtain a number of the Coprinus coma tus (Plate 
16). Upon another lawn, apparently exactly similar 
as to soil conditions, I transfer the melting mushroom 



88 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

where it sheds its inky spore-solution upon the earth, 
and yet, after years of waiting, there is no response. 
Even an absolute transfer of the webby spawn from 
the original haunt has proven equally without result. 
Thus while the habitual fungus-hunter comes to rec- 
ognize a certain logical association between a given 
character of natural haunt and some certain species 
of fungi  a prophetic suspicion often immediately 
fulfilled  as when he inwardly remarks, as he comes 
upon an open, clear spot in the woods, " This is an ideal 
haunt for the green Russula," and instantly stumbles 
upon his specimen; yet he may take the pallid spawn, 
with a small clod of earth from its roots, and place it 
in the mould not ten feet distant, apparently in iden- 
tically auspicious conditions, and it absolutely refuses 
to be humored. He may mark the spot, and look 
in vain in its precincts for a decade for his Russula, 
though the ground in the vicinity be dotted with them. 
Year after year I have thrown my refuse specimens 
of hundreds of species of fungi out of my studio win- 
dow, over the piazza rail or upon my 
Dormant lawn, yet never with the slightest sign 
spores that one of the millions of spores in the 
species thus sown has vegetated. 
Considering the ready accommodation of the Cam- 
pestris, the contrast of the fastidiousness in other spe- 
cies is a notable phenomenon. As a rule, " they will 
not colonize ; they will not emigrate ; they will not 
be cheated out of their natural possessions : they re- 
fuse to be educated, and stand themselves upon their 
single leg, as the most independent and contrary 
growth with which man has to deal." 



AGARICS 91 

The Campestris is probably the most protean of all 
mushrooms, and mycologists are even yet at odds as 

to the proper botanical disposition of 
Va f l th ieS man y f *h e contrasting varieties which 

Campestris it assumes. A few of these are indicat- 
ed in Plate 6. Indeed, some of these, 
as in the Agaricus arvensis^ following, have until quite 
recently figured as distinct species. In its extreme 
form it might well so do, but when science is con- 
fronted with an intermediate specimen bearing equal 
affinities to the Campestris and Arvensis  and per- 
haps reinforced by other individuals which actually 
merge completely into the Campestris  the discrimi- 
nation of the Arvensis as a distinct species becomes 
impossible, and would hardly seem warrantable. 

Berkeley gives the following selection of the more 
distinct varieties, not including the Arvensis with its 
variations, and which he considers a distinct species: 

1. The so-called '* garden mushroom," with its brownish, hairy, 
scaly cap. 

2. A. pratensis, in which the pileus is more or less covered with 
reddish scales, and the rlesh as well as gills a pinkish tinge. 

3. A, villaticuS) large size and very scaly. 

4. A, silvicola, pileus smooth and shining, stem elongated and 
conspicuously swollen at base ; often found in woods. 

5. A, vaporarius, brown pilose coat which covers the stem as 
well as the cap, and leaves streaky fragments on the stalk as it 
elongates. 

6. He also figures another marked form, with the cap of a red- 
dish color, completely covered with a pilose coat ; the gills being 
perfectly white in young specimens, and the rlesh turning bright 
red when bruised. 

Any one of the above, he admits, are as much entitled to classi- 
fication as " distinct species " as the Arvensis. 



92 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The application of the title "horse -mushroom" to 
this last-mentioned species was generally supposed to 

be referable to the same popular tra- 

The horse M ditions of which we see the analogies 

mushroom i n the names horse -weed, horse-nettle, 

horse -balm, horseradish among the 
herbs  the prefix " horse " referring to the element of 
coarseness or rank growth. But in the instance of 
the mushroom it bears a deeper significance, as this 
ample cosmopolitan variety of the Campestris, which 
follows the horse all over the world, from stable and 
through lane to pasture, and which can only be 
grown in the manure of this animal, is now generally 
believed to be a secondary, exaggerated . form conse- 
quent upon the following conditions : 

The spores of the Campestris are shed in myriads 
in the pastures. The grazing horse no doubt swal- 
lows thousands of them, which, upon their return to 
the soil under especially favorable conditions for 
growth, vegetate into mycelium, and at length fructi- 
fy in the full -formed mushroom. The dense white 
spawn of this species may often be seen beneath the 
manure in pastures where no sign of the mushroom 
itself is yet apparent. 

During the writing of the present pages I have 
received from Arizona a letter accompanied with a 

sketch of a most astonishing mushroom, 
a huge which my correspondent finds plenti- 
variety f u l]y prevalent in his vicinity, growing 
in arid sand, even in an exceptionally 
dry season. He claims that "it is deliciously ed- 
ible," and he has partaken of it several times. His 



AGARICS 93 

sketch and description call to mind no existing form 
of mushroom known to me, though from one peculi- 
arity in particular  namely, its frequently enormous 
size, "occasionally ten inches in diameter"  one 
would naturally expect to find it at least notorious, 
if not famous. 

It is plainly an Agaric related to the Campestris, 
and from the fact of its having " pink gills darker in 
older specimens " I suspect it to be simply another 
local masquerade of this same Campestris, which sus- 
picion, by the receipt of further data, I hope soon to 
verify. 

HORSE-MUSHROOM 
Agaricus arvensis 

This other and larger variety, so readily confound- 
ed with the Campestris, demands further and more 
detailed description. It may frequently be found 
growing in company with the former, and so closely 
do the two kinds merge in specimens of equal size 
that it is often a puzzle to separate the species. In- 
deed, as already mentioned by some mycologists, the 
larger form is considered merely as a variety of the 
Campestris. The accompanying plate (5) may well 
serve as a portrait of this species also. It frequents 
the same localities as the former, and is occasional- 
ly seen crowded in clusters of crescent 
Description shape, or in scattered rings, while its 
of Arvensls size is generally conspicuous, the solid 

cream -colored or white cap often ex- 
panding to the diameter of seven inches. Its sub- 
stance discolors to yellowish brown on being bruised. 



94 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The stem is less solid than in Campestris, often with 
a pithlike or even hollow heart. The gills are of 
unequal length, as in the former species, though of 
much the same tints of pink and brown and black, 
though more dingy in the lighter shades. The veil 
is often more conspicuous, and occasionally appears 
to be double, the outer or lower more or less ragged 
or split into a fringe at the edge. The species can 
hardly be mistaken for any poisonous variety, and, 
once recognized, its generous size, frequent profusion, 
and savory qualities make it a tempting quest to the 
-epicure, being considered by many as superior in fla- 
vor to its rival, the smaller Campestris. 

But this question of gastronomic prestige will per- 
haps never be finally settled. De gustibus non est 

disputandum. Species considered here 

in matters by many as the tie plus ultra of delica- 
of taste cies, like the Campestris, are discrimi- 
nated against in other countries, and in 
Rome, it is said, are even thrown into the Tiber by 
inspectors and guardians of the public health who 
find it exposed for sale in the markets. There are 
those connoisseurs in delicate feasting who consider 
no other species comparable to this. These fastidi- 
ous gourmands are in turn viewed with pitying con- 
sideration by other superior epicurean feeders with 
finer sensuous discrimination, who know perfectly 
well that our woods afford a number of common 
species which easily consign the Campestris to the 
fourth or fifth choice as a competitor at the feast. 

The arts of the chef have been exhausted in the 
savory preparation of this, the most famous of the 



AGARICS 95 

mushrooms. A few of his ingenious methods are 
given in a later chapter. Meanwhile most of us will 
be perfectly contented with our simple " mushrooms 
on toast." 

While the Campestris is generally considered as 
" the " mushroom, there is another species which al- 
most equally shares the honors in popular favor. 

I have alluded to the habit of the horse-mushroom 
as "growing in crescents or rings." This singular 
tendency is, however, much more fully exemplified 
in another fungus, which has thus won the popular 
patronymic of the "Fairy- ring" Champignon, and 
which is considered on page 101. 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 
Agaricus gambosus 

Another very common example of mushroom in 
its season of early spring is the Agaricus gambosus, 
or St. George's mushroom, as it is popularly styled 
in Great Britain, from its usual appearance about the 
time of St. George s Day, April 23d. In addition to 
its unusually early season, which is the same with 
us, and which at this date would be a valuable hint 
in its identification, it has also the singular habit of 
growing in rings or clustered in crescents, after the 
manner of the Fairy -ring Champignon of our lawns. 

Add to this, also, a very strong odor, 
Remarkably and we have at least three suggestive 
strong odor characteristics to aid us. This odor, 

according to Dr. Cooke, is so strong 
as to occasionally become oppressive and overpower- 
ing where the fungus is plentiful. Workmen em- 



96 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ployed to root them out are said to have been so 
overcome by the odor as to be compelled to desist. 
Other features of this fungus are noted in Plate 7. 
The cap varies in size in different individuals, but is 
occasionally very large  five inches or more in diam- 
eter, the average expanse, perhaps, being about three 
inches. The cap is smooth, thick, and fleshy, sug- 
gesting soft kid leather, at first rounded convex, ulti- 
mately expanding quite 
horizontally, and is com- 
monly fissured here and 
there with irregular cracks, 
both in its expanse and 
at its edges. Its color is 
white, or yellowish white. 
In surface appearance Dr. 
Berkeley compared it to a 
" cracknel biscuit." The 
gills are yellowish white, 
very moist and densely 
crowded, and of various lengths, as indicated in my 
sectional drawing on the plate, and are, moreover, 
annexed to the solid stout stem by a toothed border, 
also shown herewith. 

The season of this mushroom extends into June, 
and in its favorite haunt it may occasionally be gath- 
ered by the bushel. Opinions are at 
Epicurean variance as to the comparative esculent 
opinions qualities of this species. Certainly deli- 
cacy cannot be claimed for it; but 
those epicures who desire the characteristic fungus 
flavor at its maximum will find it in the Gambosus. 




TOOTHED GILLS 



   

    

   



-  ;      



fLqa ziaid gambod ud 



/'/../ /v* / // 

ST. ni-ORGF.'S MrSllKOOM 

Agaricus gambosus 

F. "!;, i-.- mx iiklivs in J:';itik*?i r, <v*M<!ir:.,ilv jt i. 

CV.i. J l;v'!V :i;'.i til' \ I Mi! I ' kV MH n'ih. thj\ ' ." I 

'.tsh.  'u^-.- jji:^ <oif Li J ii.iihi-r. c 7-'I ? _ p;i!<* ^ :!. 
ji" \   . i.sli u liiiv . 
;il!s: ! . f v  !'n\\\i\! , \v!k. v. i>-h wi."!r: vcrv ,, "i: ; ?" . - 
;^i!r<: i.kli .iiiii'/- vl ;<> Mi-n- In a m.mII <*''. ; 
, l - *\! . " i 1 1" \ '. 



  t 



i j 



</: x..!.-! 



SpO!  

T.-. -. i 

O i 

f ' -Vii.j'. : ! . I i v :i  .  . ; n- .-! - ::.. :; 






t 



i  i 



 < i 



   

   

  * 



TLATE Vll 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 

Agaricus gambosus 

Pileus: Three to six inches in diameter, occasionally much 
larger; rounded convex, at length more flat and common- 
ly cracked here ancf^here; surface smooth, thick, and 
fleshy, suggesting soft kid leather. Color, pale ochre 
or yellowish white. 

Gills: Densely crowded; yellowish white; very moist; va- 
rious lengths; each annexed to stem by a small sharp 
downward curve. 

Stem: Solid; stout; substance creamy white. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Highly flavored; by some considered "too gamy." 

Odor: Powerfully strong, perhaps rank. 

Habitat: Fields, lawns, and pastures, frequently growing in 
broken rings or crescents. 



  i. :i;,'M". "i.\M^:.'!i:ily '.y. . 

'.]' ir.i-i;; ("Lit .md C'. , !!J:'! 1 . : 

.-: =. r ;:i-..ii>h. thick .. J 
1 .. . I'^r C>1m'. p;K* -i V I-- 

.' .  ii >. Lit-. \i- { v iiif>i.4 :   



i  



. t , .  



I < i j. i .ii  i . 



.i,4  

. v.  : 



.  - V  II 



 -w.  : 



PLATE VII 






_ 



AGARICS IOI 

By many fungus -feasters this species is prized as 
the ne plus ultra, and most various are the methods 
of its culinary preparation, either in the form of mince 
and fricassee with various meats, suitably seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and butter, or simply broiled and 
served on buttered toast. An appetizing recipe for 
this especial mushroom is given on page 313. 

TRUE FAIRY-RING CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius oreades 

I remember, as a boy, summer after summer ob- 
serving upon a certain spot upon our lawn this dense, 

and at length scattering, ring of tiny 
Fairy-ring yellowish mushrooms, and the aroma> 

mushrooms J \ . 

true and false as they simmered on the kitchen stove, 

is an appetizing memory. This species 
is very common, and inasmuch as it is likely to be 
confounded with two noxious varieties, it is advisable 
to bring in prominent contrast the characters of the 
true and the false. 

The true Fairy -ring Champignon is pictured in 
Plate 8. It is common on lawns and close-cropped 
pastures, where it is usually seen growing in rings 
more or less broken, and often several feet in diam- 
eter, or in disconnected arcs, the vegetation extend- 
ing outward year by year. This mushroom is held 
in great esteem, and frequently grows in such pro- 
fusion that bushels may be gathered in a small area. 
The pileus is buff or cream colored, from one to 
two inches in diameter, leathery and shrivelled when 
dry, but when moist, after rain or dew, becoming 
brownish, soft, and pliable, the conditions perhaps 



102 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

alternating for several days ; the skin refuses to be 
peeled, and in the older, fully opened specimens the 

centre of the cap is raised in a distinct 
True" tiny mound; gills, widely separated^ 
fairy-ring about ten or twelve to the inch at cir- 
cumference in average specimens, same 
color as cap, or paler, unequal in length, curving 
upward on reaching stem, thus "free" from apparent 
contact with it ; stem, equal diameter, tough, fibrous, 
and tenacious, paler than gills, smooth to the base 
(no spines nor down) ; cup, none ; spores, white ; taste 
nutty ', somewhat aromatic^ appetizing ; habitat usually 
on lawns or pastures. 

The "ring" was long involved in mystery, being at- 
tributed to moles, lightning, witchcraft, etc. ; and, 

clothed with popular superstition, has 

Tr *f th n5 f un( l i* s wa y in* many folk-legends, 
mystic ring" and has figured in the lore of elfs and 

goblins, to whom, in the absence of 
scientific knowledge, the strange, fungus-haunted cir- 
cle was referred, the "ring" being applied not merely 
to the circle of mushrooms themselves, but especially 
to the clearly defined ring of clear, fresh grass sur- 
rounding the central, more faded area. But the fair- 
ies no longer dance their moonlight rigadoon upon 
the charmed circle of the champignon, nor do the 
nimble elves " rear their midnight mushrooms " upon 
the rings of lush grass as of old, for science has 
stepped in and cleared up the mystery. The Rev. 
M. J. Berkeley, in his Outlines to British Fungology, 
thus completely rescues the " fairy-ring" from the do- 
main of poetry and reduces it to prosaic fact : 



SJoaiaAmiu.* oieaOc) 



TLATE Vlll 

FAIRY RING CHAMPIGNON 

Harasmius oreades 

Pileus : Convex at first, becoming flat, with a mound at cen- 
tre, at juncture of stem ; texture, tough and pliable when 
moist, brittle in drying, alternating between these two 
conditions with rain and sun ; color, reddish buff at first, 
becoming cream colored when old, when it is usually 
quite wrinkled. 

Gills : Broad, and quite separated ; about ten or twelve to the 
inch at rim in large specimens; unequal in length; deep 
cream color; clearing the stem as they curve upward 
towards cap. 

Stem: Solid; equal diameter; tough and fibrous; naked and 
smooth at base. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Sweet, "nutty," and appetizing. 

Odor: Aromatic and pleasant. 

Habitat: Pastures and lawns, generally growing in rings or 
curved lines. 

Diameter of pileus, full expansion, one to two inches. 



'Mm^, 




MARASAMUi Ph.'.ADES 



AGARICS IO7 

" These rings are sometimes of very ancient date, 
and attain such enormous dimensions as to be dis- 
tinctly visible on a hill-side for a great 
The "ring" distance. It is believed that they orig- 
explalned inate from a single fungus whose growth 

renders the soil immediately beneath 
unfit for its reproduction. The spawn, however, 
spreads all around, and in the second year produces 
a crop, whose spawn spreads again, the exhausted 
soil behind forbidding its return in that direction. 
Thus the circle is continually increased, and extends 
indefinitely till some cause intervenes to destroy it. 
If the spawn does not spread on all sides at first, an 
arc of a circle only is produced. The manure aris- 
ing from the dead fungi of former years makes the 
grass peculiarly vigorous around, so as to render the 
circle visible even when there is no external appear- 
ance of fungus, and the contrast is often stronger 
from that behind being killed by the old spawn. 
This mode of growth is far more common than is 
supposed, and may be observed constantly in our 
woods, where the spawn can spread only in the soil 
or among the leaves and decaying fragments which 
cover it." 

Many recipes are recommended for the preparation 
of this mushroom, some of which are given in a later 

chapter, including the method of des- 
Various iccation so commonly employed with 
recipes other species, and by which the cham- 
pignon may be kept for ready use 
throughout the winter months. 

In its fresh state, according to J. M. Berkeley, " When 



108 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of good size and quickly grown, it is perhaps the best 
of all fungi for the table, whether carefully fried or 
stewed with an admixture of finely mixed herbs and 
a minute portion of garlic. It is at the same time 
tender and easy of digestion, and when once its use is 
known and its character ascertained, no species may 
be eaten with less fear. It is so common in some dis- 
tricts that bushels may be gathered in a day." 

FALSE OR POISON CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius urens 

There are two other species of mushroom which 
might possibly be mistaken for the above by the 
casual eye, but which are easily distinguishable on 
careful examination. The first of these is the false 
Champignon (Plate 9, fig. 1). The most important 
distinguishing features are italicized. They will be 
seen to afford a striking contrast to the true edible 
species in these especial characters. 

The pileus is pale buff, convex, central mound ab- 
sent; the cap varies from one-half to one and a half 
inches in diameter, and is thus slightly smaller than 
the " true " fairy-ring ; gills, yellowish brown, narrow, 
and crowded, twenty -five or more to the inch at cir- 
cumference in good specimen, curving upward at 
junction with stem, thus "free" from actual attach- 
ment ; stem, solid, clothed with whitish down, espe- 
cially noticeable at the base ; cup, none ; taste, acrid. 
This last quality alone should distinguish the species, 
which, moreover, usually grows in woods, though oc- 
casionally found upon the lawn in association with 
the edible species. 



C'lbaiaMniiL) men.) 
C'lOazaAmiiiA petonatu.) 



! 



'PLATE IX 

POISONOUS CHAMPIGNONS 
Marasmius urens 

Pileus: Pale buff in color; tough and fleshy; flat convex, 

becoming depressed and at length wrinkled; one to two 

inches in diameter. 
Gills: Unequal, cream colored, becoming brownish; much 

closer together than in the true Champignon, hardly 

reaching the stem proper. 
Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, its surface more or less covered 

with white, flocculent down, and densely clothed with 

white down at base. 
Taste: Acrid. 
Habitat: Lawns and pastures, often in association with the 

edible M. oreades. 

Marasmius peronatus 

Pileus: Reddish buff; convex slightly flattened at top, be- 
coming convex by expansion; very wrinkled when old; 
diameter, at full expansion, between one and two inches. 

Gills : Thin and crowded ; creamy, becoming light reddish 
brown, continuing slightly down stem by a short, abrupt 
curve. 

Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, densely clothed with stiff yel- 
low hairs at base. 

Taste: Acrid. 

Habitat: In woods, among dead leaves, etc. 




Poisonous Champignons. 



MARAiMil 



77 vr /.v 



? !; \\Oi:* : CHAMPIGNONS 



M-irasmius urens 



;v 



! . 






(i i>  



' *  -. 

T ;-. V  



i,  



"v. 



 i 



'.->: 



i 



I !  



t  .  .. 1. 

1 

  ! . , 

. <  i  



l'.i>C 



f  






.Is- .' I .  ' I 



! . I S * i".    'V 



* 1 



<r .  ' ' ' ' I" 



. i- ! i:i > =: '.on \v\- . \  



I- 



 !':  



:..raH iv J : .i.- " rcm^v- 



> ,  

1 ' V. ' 



I 



;!' * 



I 



\ i 



.*. i  



 : . ' .: vi .  ,. .  .'- 





Poisonous Champignons. 

MARASMIUS URENS. 



M. PERONATUS 



AGARICS I I 3 

POISONOUS FAIRY-RING MUSHROOM 
Marasmius peronatus 

The other false species (Plate 9, fig. 2) still more 
closely simulates the "fairy-ring," but may be identi- 
fied by the growth of spines at the base of the stalk. 
The gills are also annexed to the stalk by a small, 
sharp, recurved tooth. Like the previous spurious 
species, it is found in woods, and is rarely to be seen 
in association with the true Champignon or in its 
peculiar haunt. 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 
Agaricus (Lepiota) procerus 

One of the most readily recognized of our wild 
mushrooms is the pasture or parasol Agaric {Aga- 
ricus procerus), a cluster of which in 
^ f A1 various stages of development is shown 

Description . 

in Plate 10. It is frequently abundant 

in pasture -lands, and is occasionally 
found in woods. Its conspicuous cap sometimes 
measures six inches or more in diameter, the centre 
being abruptly raised in a mound. The pileus is at 
first egg-shaped. The color of the full specimen is 
pale -brown or buff, more or less spotted with darker 
brown shaggy patches, generally arranged in some- 
what concentric order. The skin of the cap is thick 
and somewhat tough, especially in drying. The gills 
are almost pure white in early specimens, slightly 
creamy later, and unequal in length. Stem, often 
six or eight inches high, proportionately slender, and 
of equal diameter, bulbous at base, but without a 



U4 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



cup, hollow, fibrous, finely speckled or streaked with 
brown, and deeply inserted in the cap, at which 
juncture, by a narrow flat space, as shown in the 
section drawing below, it is distinctly free from con- 
tact with the gills. The remnants of the veil are in 
the form of a more or less detachable ring encircling 




the stem. The spores are white and odorous. The 
flavor, when raw, is distinctly nutty, aromatic, sweet, 
and palatable ; when dry, slightly pungent. 

This species is cosmopolitan, and is a great favor- 
ite on the Continent  in France being known as the 

Coulemelle, in Italy as Bubbola mag- 
giore, and in Spain as Cogome/os. It 
is by many considered as the choicest 
of all mushrooms, and is indeed a deli- 
cious morsel when quickly broiled over coals, seasoned 
to taste with salt and pepper and butter melted in 
the gills, and served hot on buttered toast. Other 
recipes are noted in a later chapter. The scurfy 
spots and stems should be removed before cooking. 



Simple 
recipe 



C?w$a i ictiA p xoceiad 



TLATE X 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 
Agaricus procerus 

Pileus: At first egg-shaped, finally expanded like a parasol 
four to seven inches in diameter, the apex raised in a 
prominent mound or " umbo." Color pale buff or creamy, 
occasionally almost pure white, more or less regularly 
spotted with the brown shaggy patches of the separating 
epidermis, which remains of the pale brown color on the 
4 * umbo." Skin thick and somewhat tough; substance 
hygrometric, drying and swelling naturally in its haunts. 

Gills: Unequal in length; crowded; at first almost white, 
finally becoming creamy or pale buff. 

Stem: Tall, slender, equal, hollow, and fibrous; bulbous at 
base, but with no sign of a "cup;" separated from the 
gills above by a distinct space ; surface streaked and 
speckled with brown, encircled by a loose ring. 

Spores: White, and, like the whole plant, fragrant aromatic 
 more so, perhaps, than any other fungus. 

Taste: Distinctly sweet and " nutty," slightly pungent when 
dry. 

Habitat: Pastures and fields, occasionally woods. 

Season: Summer. 



'\: ^iM'OM 



 " ' 1 "i ' " W ' f J I *  * 



  'J'.:. apex r:i;^i! v 
'. y.'.h- huff *! v ;\-;;; . 
 " i ' 'V >r less !'"l: -I..:' '. 

\ . : !: s m tin* ^;v\ =- . 
' . : ^ !e 1"<\V!1 i  ! : : . 

. . ': iinn'.iiv ir, l!s !: ".; *- 
.: l!!^i aim. . ' * i . !;' 
, I-.!'". 
.'. .:;ni finrt::.s; "KilN-ii  .< 



I 



AGARICS 119 

This species is especially free from the swarming 
grubs too commonly found in mushrooms. It is high- 
ly hygrometric, dries naturally even 
Hygrometric while standing in the pasture, in which 
properties condition it is decidedly aromatic in 

fragrance and nutty sweet to the taste, 
as described. Indeed, it is sometimes called "the 
nut mushroom." Absorbing moisture from the dews 
and rains, it again becomes pulpy and enlarged, thus 
alternating for days between its juicy and dry con- 
dition, in which latter state it may be gathered and 
kept for winter use. It is a palatable morsel at all 
times, but especially in the prime of its first expan- 
sion, each successive alternation, with its gradual loss 
of spores, affecting its full flavor. 

THE RUSSULA GROUP 

Among the wild species of mushrooms which the 
novice might possibly mistake for the common "mush- 
room" of the markets  which is popularly supposed 
to be the only edible variety, as distinguished from 
"toadstools"  is the Russula group. They are ex- 
tremely frequent in our woods from spring to late 
autumn, and have many features in common. Their 
caps vary in color from a gray -green, suggesting 

cheese-mould, to olive-red, scarlet-red, 

Generic and purplish. The gills are generally 

characters G f the same length, or practically so, 

occasionally double - branched, begin- 
ning at the stem and usually extending to the rim of 
the cap, at which portion they are covered by the 



120 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

mere skin of the pileus, a slightly fluted appearance 
being observable from above, which indicates the lo- 
cation of the radiating laminae below (Plate 1 2, fig. 6). 

The stem may be white or cream-colored, or perhaps 
stained or mottled with the color of the cap. 

There are at least four of these edible Russulae 
that we are certain of meeting in our walks in the 
woods : The green Russula (R. virescens), with its mot- 
tled cap of mouldy or sage green; the various-gilled 

Russula (R. heterophylla), varying in the 

Principal lengths of its gill plates; the purple 

species Russula (R. lepidd), whose cap varies 

from bright red to dull purple; and the 

red Russula (R. alutacea), which presents a variety of 

shades of red, from bright to dull. Having once 

identified the Russula as a group, or the common 

characteristics of the genus, we may take our pick 

from all of these delicious species for the table; but 

we must avoid one other member of the genus, also 

quite common, and which frequently masquerades in 

the guise of some of the bright red varieties above 

mentioned. This is the R. emetica, whose obnoxious 

qualities are indicated by its classical surname, and 

which will be separately considered. 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 
Agaricus (Russula) viresccns 

Our first species, the green Russula, is to be found 
throughout the summer in hard-wood groves, and is 
apt to frequent the same immediate locality from year 
to year. I know one such veritable mushroom bed 
in the woods near by, where I am almost certain of 



my mess of Russulae almost any day in their season. 
This species is shown in its various stages of develop- 
ment and also in section in Plate 1 1. Its substance is 
firm and solid creamy white. The pileus, at first al- 
most hemispherical, as it pushes its 
specific way through the earth, at length be- 
characters comes convex, with a slight hollow at 
the centre, and later ascends in a gentle 
slope from centre to rim. Its color is sage green, or 
mouldy green, usually quite unbroken in tint at cen- 
tre, but more or less disconnected into spots as it ap- 




proaches the circumference by the gradual expansion 
of the cap, the creamy undertint appearing like net- 
work between the separated patches of color. The 
substance of the cap becomes gradually thinned tow- 
ards the circumference, where the mere cuticle con- 
nects the gills, the position of these gills being ob- 
servable from above in a faint fluting of the edge, a 
peculiarity of all the Russula;. The cuticle peels 



122 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

readily some distance from the edge, leaving the 
projecting tips of the gills exposed in a row of comb- 
like teeth, but usually adheres towards the centre of 
cap. The gills, with rare exceptions, are all of the 
same length, white or creamy in color, firm and thick, 
but very brittle, easily broken into fragments by a rude 
touch, a characteristic of all the group; spores, white. 
The stem is short, stout, and solid, and usually tapers 
towards the base. There is no vestige of a cup or 
veil at any stage of growth. 

A fine specimen of the green Russula should 
measure five inches in diameter when fully open, but 
three inches is probably the average size. 

When once acquainted with the above as a type 
of the Russula group, noting the firm substance, 

straight, equal gills, and their brittle 

The noxious texture ; the sweet, nutty flavor com- 
Russute m0 n to all the edible species, these be- 
come readily identified, the noxious 
Russulae, as in the brilliant pink or scarlet R. emetica 
(Plate 13), being acrid and peppery to the taste. 

In an auspicious season and in a congenial habitat 
 usually an open wood with scant undergrowth and 
preferably raked clean of dead leaves  the green Rus- 
sula is often abundant. Familiarity even with this 

one species will often afford a sufficien- 

Green Russula cy Q f f un a US food durine its season. A 
often J  *\ " 

sufficient lady amateur mycophagist of the writ- 
er's acquaintance, whose home is locat- 
ed at the border of such a wood as is above described, 
and who is especially fond of the green Russula, is 
never at a loss for this especially prized tidbit as a 



CD 



cJ~biidduLv? KHzedcend 



TLATE XI 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 

Russula virescens 

Pileus : Very firm ; solid, dull, dry-surfaced, as with a fine 
" flock"; mouldy green or creamy, with sage-greenish 
broken spots more united at centre; occasionally entirely 
green, with warty patches of darker hue. At first glob- 
ular, then convex with flat top, at length expanded and 
hollowed towards centre. 

Gills: Pale, creamy white; commonly all of equal length, but 
frequently unequal and forked; very brittle, breaking in 
pieces at a rude touch. 

Stem: Solid; creamy white; no veil. 

Taste : Very mild, sweet, and nut-like. 

Habitat : In woods  July-September. 

Diameter of pileus, ideal specimen, four inches. 



AGARICS I27 

reward for her daily stroll among the trees. A vis- 
itor may often see upon her buffet a small glass dish 
filled with the mushrooms, nicely scraped and cut in 
pieces  an ever-present relish between meals. For 
even in their natural state, as she discriminatingly 
says, they are " as sweet as chestnuts." This is espe- 
cially the case with the " buttons " or younger speci- 
mens. 

PURPLE RUSSULA 
Russula kpida 
This, perhaps the most common species, is figured 
in Plate 12, fig. 3. It corresponds with the fore- 
going in size as well as in general shape, firm text- 




RUSSULA LEPIDA-CONTORTKD AN1J LRACKED PILEUS 

ure, and friable nature of the gills. The pileus of 
this species frequently assumes eccentric shapes, or is 
often cracked, as seen in the accompanying cut. Its 



128 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

name of " purple " is probably local in its application, 
as it is known also as the red Russula, neither of 

which titles is at all distinctive. In- 
Color of cap deed, the color of the cap is often a mis- 
misleading leading character for identification, as a 

given species may vary greatly in this 
particular. This feature is thus generally omitted in 
purely scientific descriptions, more dependence being 
placed upon the tint of the flesh and that of the spore 
surface, the laminae or gills, which are more perma- 
nent and reliable as a character. Thus, in the present 
species, R. lepida, the tint of the pileus or cap is often 
of a deep dull purplish red or ruddy wine color. An- 
other authority describes it as violet- red and cherry- 
red or slightly tawny, paler at circumference. Berke- 
ley, in his British Fungi, omits any reference to the 
color of the cap, as evidently of little value in identifi- 
cation. But from numerous examples gathered by 
the present writer, the color may, I think, be safely 

averaged under the general hue of dark, 

Specific subdued red inclining to maroon. The 

characters surface is dull, as with a fine dust or 

plum-like bloom, and thus without pol- 
ish. Occasional specimens appear almost velvety in 
the sheen of surface. But the tints of the flesh and 
the gills are always uniform, the leaflets or gills being 
pure white or very slightly creamy, continuous from 
stem to rim or occasionally forked, not crowded, 
curved in outline in open specimen, with broadest 
width near the circumference of cap. The flesh is 
white or slightly creamy, firm and compact as in the 
former species, with the same variations of outline 



edible*' 



UTjU'MllltT 



TLATE XII 

EDIBLE RUSSULE 

i. Russula heterophylla Variable Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; greenish or pinkish -gray; at first con- 
vex, with flat top, ultimately rising from centre to rim. 

Gills: Milk-white; extremely brittle, like all the Russulae, 
and easily crumbled (see Fig. 7) ; long, short, and forked 
intermixed. Fig. 5. 

Stem: Milk-white; solid. 

Taste : Mild and sweet. 

2. Russula alutacea Yellow- gilled Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; shape as in above; color very variable, 
from bright to deep red; cuticle thin at rim, where the 
lines of junction of gills are readily discernible from above 
by the depressed channels. Fig. 6. 

Gills: Equal, brittle, broad; yellow -buff color in all stages. 
Fig. 4. 

Stem: Solid; milk-white, commonly stained or streaked with 
red towards the base. 

Taste: Sweet and nut-like. 

3. Russula lepida Purple Russula 

Pileus: In shape like above, varying in color from bright 
red to dull, subdued purplish, with a distinct bloom. 

Gills: White, broad, principally even, occasionally forked as 
in Fig. 1 ; like the above, extremely brittle. Fig. 7. 

Stem: Solid; white, usually stained and streaked with pink. 

Fig. 8. 
Taste : Sweet, and similar to above. 

Average diameter of extended pileus of each of these spe- 
cies about three and one-half inches; veil absent in each. 
Habitat: All grow in woods  July-September. 




Edible Rush-ui <ve 






.nv)!u W'i.^V RussuIj 



. * * 
1 1 






I * * ' *  . * * 



V*i.i-iv uMfeU Riissula 

'   I n. A ! 'I * 



'..: "fit :<-'S>--:tf 



.IS 



V, \  '. 



PLATE XII 




AGARICS 133 

from early stage to maturity. The stem is white, 
solid, and generally more or less tinted or streaked 
vertically with rose or pale crimson (Fig. 8). The 
taste of the flesh is sweet and appetizing. 

YELLOW-GILLED RUSSULA 
Kussula alutacea 

Our third example of the Russula is one which is 
also quite common in our woods, and which might in 
the extreme variation of its color be confounded with 
the last by a careless observer, as indeed both might 
be still further confounded with the poisonous mem- 
ber bearing the red tint, and which will be hereafter 
considered. The Rtcssula alutacea (PI. 12, figs. 2, 4, 6) 

is a delicious species. In general size 
Botanical and contour it resembles the foregoing. 

characters The color of the cap varies from bright- 
red to blood -red or even approaching 
the purplish red of the preceding species, lightening 
towards edge. But we have a clear distinction in the 
color of the gills, which are distinctly yellowish^ pale 
ochre, or nankeen, in all stages of the mushroom, or 
even tawny in old specimens. They are, moreover, 
usually all of even length, being straight and continu- 
ous from stem to circumference of pileus, none of 
them forked, their juncture with the edge of the cap 
being clearly manifest from above by the thinness of 
the cuticle. The flesh is white, stem firm and solid, 
white and smooth, often tinted with pink or red. The 
flesh of the cap often appears pinkish upon peeling 
the cuticle from the edge. The taste resembles that 
of the previous species  sweet and nutty. 



134 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

VARIOUS- GILLED RUSSULA 
Russula heterophylla 

Growing in company with both of the above is 
frequently to be seen another species, which is some- 
what protean in its accomplishments of color, but 
which in the character of its gills, as implied in its 

scientific name, gives us a ready means 
Botanical of identification  heterophylla  various- 
characters leaved (PI. 12, figs. 1 and 5). In the pre- 
vious examples of Russulae the gills have 
been commonly straight, continuous from stem to 
edge of cap, or more rarely forked and continuous .in 
the bifurcation. In the present species we have both 
of these conditions, combined also with what are 
called dimidiate gills, or shorter leaflets, which reach, 
perhaps, only half-way from rim to stem, all crowded 
together and alternating. The color of the cap is 
very variable  occasionally pinkish-ash color or dull 
pinkish-gray inclining to green or olive or even red. 
Its surface is smoother than in the foregoing species, 
being almost polished, and the pellicle of the cap is 
usually noticeably thinner. Having found such a 
specimen, possessing also all the other attributes of 
shape, firmness of flesh, and dry brittleness of gills, 
if tasted and found sweet in flavor it may be eaten 
without the slightest fear, and like its congeners will 
be found a delicious morsel, whether nibbled raw, as 
the squirrels are so fond of doing, or served hot on 
toast as an entree, or otherwise prepared according 
to taste. 

Various methods prevail in the culinary prepara- 



AGARICS I35 

tion of the Russula mushroom, many of which are 
suggested among the receipts in another chapter, but 

broiling is perhaps the most simple and 
*braiied S g enera "y satisfactory. Having thor- 
Russuia oughly cleaned the top, or, if desired, 

peeled the cuticle, place the mushrooms 
on a gridiron over a hot fire, gills downward, for a 
few moments, sufficient to allow them to be heated 
through without scorching. Then reverse them and 
repeat the process, melting a small piece of butter in 
the gills and salting and peppering to taste; serve 
hot on toast or in the platter with roast beef or fowl. 
They are also delicious fried in the ordinary way, 
either with or without batter. 

The Russula is particularly in favor among the 
fungus-eating insects, whose rapid development and 




AN INFESTED SPECIM 



voracity are consistently related to the ephemeral 
nature of their food. A Russula specimen showing 



I36 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

barely a trace of insect life when gathered will some- 
times prove literally honey-combed and totally unfit 
for food in the space of twenty-four hours. It is 
therefore well to cut each specimen in sections be- 
fore venturing upon its preparation for the table, and 
to profit thereby according to our individual fastidi- 
ousness, as suggested on page $7- 

While the above esculent species of Russulse are 
being familiarized by the tyro, he must now be put 
on guard against a certain dangerous species of the 
group, which is sure to claim his attention, being 
especially fond of the good company of its cousins, 
and likely to do some mischief through its frequent 
disguise. 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 

Russula emetica 

The variability in the coloring of the three edible 
species already described brings them occasionally 

into such close similarity with the 

The poisonous gamut of color of the one common poi- 

Russula sonous species of the group that this 

enemy must also be familiarized ere we 
venture too confidently upon our Russula diet. The 
Russula emetica (Plate 13), as its name implies, is at 
war with luxurious gastronomy, but its distinction 
from the harmless varieties is, after all, quite simple. 
Its frequent general similarity to R. lepida and R. 
alutacea is such that the amateur should hardly rely 
upon the botanical characters alone. There is but 
one safe, as it is a simple, rule for him : He should 
taste every specimen of his Russula of whatever kind 



&tUMlaa emetics 



TLATE XIII 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 

Russula emetica 

Pileus: Expansion two to four inches; color varying from 
pale bright pink to deep scarlet; very smooth. 

Gills: Broad (in section), mostly equal in length, and contin- 
uous from edge of cap to stem ; not crowded ; white. 

Stem: White or pinkish. 

Spores : White, like all Russulae. 

Taste : Hot and peppery. 

Habitat : Woods, with other Russulae. 

Season: July-September. 

Note.  While, for conservative reasons, the poisonous reputation of this 
species is here perpetuated, it is quite probable that such condemnation is un- 
warranted, except as to the rata mushroom. The peppery tang and demoral- 
izing powers are now claimed to be dissipated in cooking, and the Emetica will 
doubtless soon be more generally included with its congeners among the es- 
culents, thus bringing the entire genus Russula into the friendly group. 

Captain Charles Mcllvaine is largely responsible for this conversion in favor 
of Emetica. His individual experiments warrant him in pronouncing this species 
"as good as the rest" when cooked. Others of the writer's acquaintance, fol- 
lowing his example, echo his opinion. 



-**" 



.*&&,, *> 




4 



/ ' Yin 



 : !.-' <V ! -^  -I- KM! : I'h: Ml'>H!^ ; 'V. 



f> :is., ii;i emetiea 



t. . 



I' M' 



! ' '.    



  4  






4  1 



I  I 



i V v * > 



': .... * .1 



, i 









 i ; .1 .  



lV 



"I 




RUS5ULA EMETICA. 
(POISONOUS) 



AGARICS 141 

before venturing upon its use as food. All of the 
sweet and palatable Russulae are esculent. When 

he chances upon the R. emetica he will 
A warning: be aware of its important demoraliz- 
ing ing resources in the peppery-hot tingle 

of his tongue, which, if not instantly 
perceived, will within the space of a minute assert 
itself distinctly. All such acrid specimens should 
be excluded, as a single one would be sufficient to 
bring an ignominious denouement to an otherwise 
delectable feast. In the typical R. emetica the pileus 
is a bright, brilliant red  which, as we have said, 
is very variable, as indicated in our plate  often 
polished and shining ; the gills broad, equal, straight, 
continuous, not crowded, and white, as is the flesh be- 
neath the peeled cuticle. The stem is white or pink. 
The cap will average, perhaps, three inches in diam- 
eter, though occasionally reaching the dimensions in- 
dicated by the marks in plate, or even larger. 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 
Agaricus ostreatus 

What a mass of nutritious food do we occasionally 
pass in innocence or spurn with our foot upon the old 
stump or fallen log in the woods !  a neglected feast, 
indeed, if the specialists on edible fungi are to be be- 
lieved ; a feast, in truth, for a big family, if we chance 
upon even an average cluster of the " vegetable oys- 
ter," which is pictured in Plate 14. 

I have commonly observed this species, the Agari- 
cus ostreatus, in the autumn, and this is the season 
given for its appearance in Europe by the authorities ; 



142 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



but according to certain American specialists, not: 

Charles Mcllvaine, it is common in our wood: 

spring, even as early as March, 

a "vegetable through the summer. It is usu 

oyster" found in large clusters, similar to 

illustration, growing' upon decaj 

stumps and the trunks of various trees. The " 

ter" is a gilled mushroom which grows sidewise i 

its position, the stem being usually lateral and i 

short, though occasionally quite prolonged, the 

varieties being indicated in the accompanying ci 




AGAKICUS (JSl'REATUS Vakiatiuks is t'uRM 

The individual mushroom may be five or six ir 
es in breadth, a cluster affording several pounds 
weight. The color of the upper surface is li 
brown or buff, varying to yellowish-ashen, accord 
to age, and the gills are dirty white of vari 
lengths ; spores white. 

This species and the one following belong to 
subdivision of the typical genus Agaricus, cal 
Leucospori  white spored. The division has m; 




qa ricuA oAtzeatiiA 



TLATE XIV 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 

Agaricus ostreatus 

Pileus : Four to six inches in diameter; smooth. Color, dull, 

light yellowish, sometimes pale ochre or grayish. 
Gills: Dingy white; of various lengths, extending down the 

stem. 
Stem : Short or obsolete ; on the side of pileus. 
Spores: White. 
Taste : Agreeable ; suggesting the flavor of the cooked oyster; 

texture tough in older specimens. 
Odor: Pleasant. 
Habitat: On old tree trunks and fallen logs, occasionally in 

dense masses. 






!ti H),\\ 



:": l .lIUS 



:.-=--; ! | . i -.i . 
 ; :.; <ysi-. 



. i. 



.i  



B . i 



AGARICS M7 

sub-genera. The particular sub-genus in which 
these are included is the Pleurotus, or side-foot 
mushrooms, as they are sometimes called. 

Another earlier species with which A. ostnatits 
might be confounded (A. eitosnms) has spores of a 
rosy pinkish or lilac hue, a sufficient identification, 
and is accounted injurious. 




THIKTV POVNI'S OK VEOKTA1JLE MEAT 



The clustering growth of the " Oyster Mushroom " 
frequently attains huge proportions, as will be seen 
from the above reproduction of a photograph sent to 
me by a correspondent. The dimensions of the mass 




I48 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

are easily judged by the height of the gun leaning 
against the tree, and introduced for comparison. 

This " Oyster Mushroom " should be gathered in 
its young state, and may be served in various ways. 

Broiling over the coals, gills upward, 
Broiled seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt 
recipe during the cooking, is a favorite meth- 
od with most of the Agarics, but a well- 
known fungus epicure claims that this mushroom 
4< may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, and 
will be found fine eating/' 

The average specimen will probably prove qjore 
ashen in hue than those represented in my plate. 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 
Agaricus ulmanus 

This edible species of mushroom, allied to the 
foregoing, and which grows in similar clusters on the 

elm-tree, is the Agaricus ulmarius ( Plate 

Appetizing 1 5). While much difference of opinion 
qualities prevails regarding the appetizing qual- 
ities of this mushroom or its right to 
a place among the esculents, this varying individual 
judgment has doubtless often had direct reference 
to the character of the particular specimen chosen 
for trial. Dr. M. C. Cooke is not disposed to place a 
high appreciation upon its qualities. " It has been 
customary," he says, " to regard this and some of its 
allies [presumably in allusion to the preceding] as 
alimentary, but there is no doubt that they could all 
be very well spared from the list." Opposed to this 
uncomplimentary aspersion is the testimony of other 



otLqazlcu.) uLmazia.s 



'PLATE XV 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 

Agaricus ulmarius 

Pileus: From three to five inches in diameter. Color, pale 
yellow or buff; smooth in young specimen, fissured, 
spotted, and leathery at maturity. Flesh in section white. 

Gills : Dingy white, becoming tawny at maturity, extending 
down the stem. 

Stem : Various in length, occasionally very short and attached 
to side of pileus; generally longer as in Plate, and "off 
centre"; white; substance solid. 

Spores: White. 

Taste : Suggesting fish when cooked. 

Odor: Pleasant. 

Habitat: Trunk of elm or from surfaces of broken or sawn 
branches. Often growing in dense masses covering sev- 
eral square feet. 



;:< ', .M 



 -! 



;. : :> ^M.firivs 



.: *. \c '"< ! '~ -. 



<! 1 . '. 

 i   .  

   

> - r  ' i . -  i . i 

 x . I I I .' i  I 

* : : iri'i- .\ ", 



'  N i .   I i . 1 1 ! , . .  i. 






AGARICS 153 

authorities who claim that " it is most delectable " 
and "a delicious morsel." Certain it is that in its 
young and tender condition only is it fit for food, as 
it becomes progressively tough in consistency tow- 
ards maturity. 

As its specific name implies  Ulmns  this mush- 
room is devoted to the elm, upon whose trunk and 

branches it may be often seen, either 
Massive singly, which is rare, or in great dense 
growth masses, sometimes covering a space of 

several square feet, often, unfortunately, 
at an inaccessible height from the ground. I have 
in my possession a photograph which has been sent 
to me by an interested correspondent representing 
a dead tree trunk, apparently a foot in diameter, 
densely covered to a height of seven feet from the 
ground with a mass of the A. nlmarius  and pre- 
sumably representing thirty or forty pounds in weight. 
This species is most frequently seen on apparently 
healthy branches, or growing from the wood of a 
severed limb. Its season is late summer and au- 
tumn. 

A small cluster of these mushrooms is seen in 
Plate 15. They afford a good refutation of the old- 
time discriminating " ban," which excluded all mush- 
rooms which grow " sidewise," or " upon wood/' The 

individual mushroom of this species is 
Botanical a horizontal grower, sometimes with a 
characters barely noticeable or obsolete stem ; in 

other specimens this portion being 
quite distinct and an inch or more in length, and 
firm and solid in texture. The upper surface is pale 



154 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

yellow or buff, smooth in the younger specimens, be- 
coming disfigured by spots and fissures with age. 
The flesh is white, as also are the gills, though more 
dingy, becoming tawny- tinted with maturity, when 
the entire mushroom becomes quite leathery in sub- 
stance, and might well awaken doubts as to its di- 
gestibility. The spores are white. 

This fungus is known in some sections as the 
" Fish Mushroom," referring to its peculiar flavor, the 
appropriateness of which appellation is suggested in 
the incident related by Mr. Palmer, and quoted in 
my last chapter. 

SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 
Coprinus comatus 

Upon a certain spot on the lawn of one of my 
neighbors, year after year, without fail, there springs 

up a most singular crop. For the first 

A plebeian two seasons of its appearance it was 

toadstool looked upon with curious awe by the 

proprietors of the premises, and usually 
ignominiously spurned with the foot by the undis- 
criminating and destructive small boy. One day I 
observed about five pounds of this fungus delicacy 
thus scattered piecemeal about the grass, and my 
protest has since spared the annual crop for my sole 
benefit. It usually makes its appearance in late 
September, and continues in intermittent crops until 
November. A casual observer happening upon a 
cluster of the young mushrooms might imagine that 
he beheld a convention of goose eggs standing on 
end in the grass, their summits spotted with brown. 



Qiopiinud comatud 



TLATE XVI 

THE SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 

Coprinus comatus 

Pileus: Egg-shaped in young specimens; at length more 
cylindrical, and finally expanded, melting away in inky 
fluid. Color, creamy white, becoming black at edge with 
advancing age, as is also the case with the shaggy points 
upon its surface, which generally cover the pileus. 

Gills : Crowded ; equal in length ; creamy white in young 
specimens, becoming pink, brown, and finally black, and 
always moist. 

Stem : Cylindrical ; creamy white ; hollow, or with a loose 
cottony pith. 

Spores : Black, falling away in drops. 

Taste : Sweet, which applies only to the pink or white con- 
dition, at which time alone the species is considered es- 
culent. 

Habitat: Lawns, pastures, gardens, and rich grounds in the 
neighborhood of barns, etc. : usually grows in dense 
clusters. 

Diameter of cylindrical pileus in average specimens, two 
inches. 

One of the most easily identified o( all mushrooms. 



.  



I 



.1 

9 



\ ' 



.1  -\ \:.\ 



\-.i_'$HKnri\\ 



.; . . ..; \\\\\i: .! .\\:\ ;;> ".:.' 
:  . , ".:_: hl;u k ..i .Jl-i' ". "*. 

.  '-..: 1 ill- iv! i;s. 

:- % \ w !-:u i:i \. ::'. 



' ; 



 '  . Ill 'l s 



AGARICS I59 

If one of them is examined, it is seen to be a 
curious short-stemmed mushroom which never fully 
expands (Plate 16), perhaps five inches high, and 
whose surface is curiously decorated with shaggy 




patches. In its early stages it is white and singular- 
ly egglike, but later becomes brownish, its curved 
shaggy points finally changing to almost black. The 
concealed gills are crowded and of equal length, at 



l6o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

first creamy white, but gradually changing through 
a whole gamut of pinks, sepias, and browns until they 
become black, at which time the whole substance of 

the cap melts on its elongated stalk  
Inky deliquesces into an unsightly inky paste y 

deliquescence which besmears the grass and ultimate- 
ly leaves only the bare white stem 
standing in its midst, a peculiar method of dissem- 
ination which distinguishes the group Coprinus, of 
which it is the most conspicuous example. This is 
the " shaggy-mane " mushroom, Coprinus comatus, the 
specific name signifying a wig  "from the fancied 
resemblance to a wig on a barber s block." Even 
a brief description is unnecessary with its portrait 
before us. It is a savory morsel, and it cannot be 
confounded with any other fungus. It frequently 
grows in such dense, crowded masses that a single 
group will afford a dinner for a family. 

It should be gathered while the gills are in the 
early white or pink stage, and may be prepared for 
the table in various ways, either broiled or fried, as 
described for previous species, or stewed with milk, 
or otherwise served according to the culinary hints in 
our later chapter, in which a special recipe for this 
species is found. 

In a recent stroll down the main street of Litch- 
field, Connecticut, I observed, over the fence in a 
front door-yard of a summer resident, just such a 
dense cluster of the shaggy Coprinus, the proprietor 
of the premises, an appreciative habitue of Delmoni- 
cos at other seasons of the year, complacently read- 
ing his morning paper in his piazza, little dreaming 



(joptintid atiaincntaiiu.) 



TLATE XVII 

THE INKY TOADSTOOL 

Coprinus atramentarius 

Pileus: Fleshy, moist; at first egg-shaped ; of a Quaker-drab, 
dirty white, or even pale brownish color; at length be- 
coming expanded, umbrella -like, when it melts away in 
inky drops. 

Gills : Broad and crowded, not adhering to stem at top; 
creamy white in young species, becoming pinkish gray, 
and at length black. 

Stem: Firm; white; hollow. 

Spores: Black; shed in liquid drops. 

Taste : Sweet, as is also the odor, which applies to its early 
stage only. 

Habitat : About old decaying stumps and rotten wood, gar- 
dens, rich lawns, and barn -yards; usually growing in 
clusters, often very dense. 

Diameter of pileus, young state, two inches. 



*';* 



*** 



. . 



.** 


 


 " 




K 


  


*. ?  


" 


 


' 


 > 


*, 


^l-  


c 


 ( 


^  


'/i. 


/ -. *- . 


'* . 


r * 


' ,-* 


p  


* *r 




9 


. . * 5* !.-*. 



AGARICS 165 

of the twenty pounds of dainty diet, fit for a king, so 
easily available. 

INKY MUSHROOM 
Coprinus atramentarius 

In frequent company with the foregoing will be 
found another allied species, Coprinus atramentarius 
(Plate 17), with the same inky propensities, which is 
scarcely less delicious as an article of food. In this 
species the shaggy feature is absent, there being 
merely a few obscure slightly raised stains at the 

summit, of a brownish color. The stem 
Botanical is white and hollow. The surface of 
characters the pileus is smooth and of a Quaker- 
drab color, occasionally dirty- white, or 
with a slight shade of ochre, moist to the touch, dark- 
ened by rubbing. In the eatable stage the caps are 
drooping, as shown in the cluster on the plate, while 
the mature specimen expands considerably before its 
inky deliquescence. Its texture when young is firm, 
and the thick gray cuticle peels readily, leaving an 
appetizing nutty-flavored morsel, delicious even when 
raw. The inky Agaric is frequent about barn-yards, 
gardens, and old stumps in woods, and usually grows 
in such crowded masses that the central individuals 
are compressed into hexagonal shape. Like the 
previous variety, it should be collected for food while 
its gills are in the white or pink stage. 

Cordier claims that all the species of Coprinus are 
eatable at this stage. The profusion in which they 
occasionally abound renders it often a simple matter 
to obtain a bushel of them in a few minutes. 



1 66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Like the foregoing, a large cluster of these mush- 
rooms leaves a most unsightly spot on the lawn. A 

diluted solution of this melting sub- 

Coprinus stance, as Cooke assures us, has been 

ink used " to replenish the ink-bottle. The 

resemblance is so complete that it may 

readily be employed as a substitute, all that is required 

being to boil and strain it, and add a small quantity 

of corrosive sublimate to prevent its turning mouldy." 

It may also be employed as pigment. It is, indeed, 

quite possible to paint the portrait of Coprinus with 

its own dark sepia, as the author has personally 

demonstrated. (See head -piece to u Illustrations.") 

MILKY MUSHROOM 
Laetarius driiciosus 

Prominent among the fungi which give unmistak- 
able characters for their identification is the genus 
Laetarius, or milky mushrooms, another group of the 
agarics or gilled fungi, from which we will select for 

our first example the Laetarius delict 

Orange-milk osus, or orange-milk Agaric (Plate 18). 

Agaric The figure will itself almost serve to 

identify it in its advanced open stage. 
Having found a specimen resembling our illustration, 
and anywhere from three to five inches in expanse, 
its general upper surface dull reddish- or a?ige in 
color, more or less plainly banded with darker red, 
it is safe to predict that when its surface or gills are 
broken an exudation of milky juice will follow. If 
this exudation is orange or deep yellow in hue, grad- 
ually turning greenish on exposure, the identification 



") 



L>actaxiu,) Je/icio.ui.) 



TLATE XVlll 

THE ORANGE-MILK MUSHROOM 

Lactarius deliciosus 

Pileus : Diameter three to five inches. Color varying from 
yellow to dull orange, or even brownish yellow with 
mottled zones of deeper color, especially in younger 
plants ; outline at first convex, ultimately somewhat fun- 
nel-shaped : surface usually smooth and moist. 

Flesh : Brittle : creamy, more or less stained with orange. 

Gills: Orange; generally clearer in hue than the pileus; when 
bruised, exuding a copious milky juice of orange color, 
becoming greenish in drying. 

Stem: Paler than pileus; hollow; occasionally spotted with 
orange or greenish stains from bruises. 

Spores: White. 

Taste : Slightly peppery. 

Habitat: Woods, pine-groves, and swamps. 

Season: July-September. 



'vl ,!: M-IK'..-. 'V 



!. "US Jf:l:0!OSUS 



 ' >. f  ... \.' : '. 

 . V. "l.sil \ !l:  

 ^ :  v. i . 1 1 i '. I ! . 

.'!"! J I ;  ' : V .:!* 
    i J i i  * 

J.;.), *  * : T * - 
    i  . ' 



i 



!.*" s.i-.^v '!  ' .. 






PLATE XVI 1 1 




AGARICS 171 

is complete, and we have the orange-milk L. delicto- 
sus, of which an authority says, " It really deserves its 
name, being the most delicious mushroom known." 
W. G. Smith goes still further in its praise, assuring 
us that " when cooked with taste and care it is one 
of the greatest delicacies of the vegetable kingdom." 
The taste of this species when raw is slightly acrid, 
but this quality disappears in the cooking. 

One other species of Lactarius, L. volcmum, may 
properly find a place in this work as being easily rec- 
ognized. In general shape it resembles 
^^ i,d i.t L. deliciosus. The top is of a rich sien- 

white - milk r . 

species na golden hue ; the gills are crowded. 

The milk is white as it first falls from 

the fracture, becoming dull dark -reddish, and having 

a mild, pleasant taste; gills white, at length yellowish 

or buff-colored. This species is esculent. 

Other species are accounted edible, even one  the 
peppery Lactarius, L. piperatus  a pure-white variety, 

whose copious exudations of white milk 

hit^^iik w *" a ' most blister the lips, an acrid 

species property which is claimed by Curtis, 

Smith, and others to be dispelled in 

cooking, by which treatment it becomes delicious and 

wholesome. 

This species may reach a diameter of seven inches, 
its shape at first rounded, convex, then flat, concave, 
and finally funnel-shaped, as in many of the species. 
But its decidedly ardent tang in the raw state, as 
reminiscent from my own experience, warns me not 
to dwell too enthusiastically upon its merits in my 
limited selection of desirable esculent species. 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



THE CHANTARELLE 
Canlkard/tis dbarius 
Bearing somewhat the shape of the Lactarius, but 
having its own distinguishing features, is the Chan- 
tarelle (Plate 19). 

The "Agarics," as already described on page 79, are 
distinguished by the feature of the gills, or thin lam- 
inated curtains  the hymenium  upon 
Fluted which the spores are produced, and 
gill* from which they are shed beneath the 

mushroom. These gills vary in thick- 
ness and number in the various species, and in one 
genus are so short, thick, swollen, and branched as 
to give rather the effect of turgid veins than gills, as 
shown in the accom- 
panying sectional 
drawing. We occa- 
sionally come upon 
one of these mush- 
rooms in our walks, 
usually in the woods. 
When it first appears 
the cap is rounded, 
and the rim folded 
inward towards the 
stem ; but in mature 
section or chantaheli.e specimens it assumes 

the flat or, later, the 
cup-shaped form shown in Plate 19. 

A fungus thus formed is a Chantarelle, or Can- 
tharcllus, and is readily identified. Any specimen 







fi 



(janthazelltt.i cibaziu.) 



TLATE XIX 

THE CHANTARELLE 

Cantharellus cibarius 

Pileus: At first convex, later flat; three to five inches in di- 
ameter, with central hollow, and finally almost funnel 
form. Color, bright to deep yellow above and below. 

Gills : Shallow and fluted, resembling swollen veins, branch- 
ed, more or less interconnected and tapering off down the 
stem; color same as pileus. 

Stem: Solid, generally (often slightly) tapering towards base; 
paler than pileus or gills. 

Spores: Very pale yellow ochre in color; elliptical. 

Taste: Peppery and pungent in the raw state; mild and 
sweet after cooking. 

Odor : Suggesting ripe apricots or plums. 

Habitat: In woods, especially hemlocks, generally in clusters 
of two or three, or in lines or arcs of several individuals. 



AGARICS 1 77 

having these features, and which possesses in addi- 
tion a fine, rich yellow color, is the C. cibarius of 
our plate, the esculent morsel so highly prized by 
epicures on the Continent, where to many  perhaps 
somewhat indiscriminating  gastronomists it forms 
one of the greatest delicacies among the entire list 
of edible fungi. The diameter of the mature speci- 
men may reach five inches, though three inches will 
be nearer the average size. The cap is frequently 

quite eccentric in its form, wavy -edged, 
Botanical or even folded upon itself in occasional 
characters individuals ; but the pure, deep yellow 

color " suggesting the yolk of an egg," 
and the swollen, vein -like hymenium, generally of 
a similar color, will be sufficient to distinguish it 
under any disguise of mere form. Another unique 
characteristic is its odor, which suggests ripe apri- 
cots or plums. The taste of the Chantarelle when 
raw is pungent and peppery, but this quality disap- 
pears in cooking. The spores are ^f a pale yellow- 
ochre color, and beneath the microscope are elliptical 
in shape. 

From the last of May until early November the 
Chantarelle may be found in our woods, with more or 
less frequency, singly or in clusters. According to 
Dr. Badham, an eminent authority on esculent fungi, 

"the best ways of dressing the Chan- 
stewed tarelle are to stew or mince it by itself, 
Chantarelle G r to combine it with meat or with 

other fungi. It requires long and gen- 
tle stewing to make it tender, but by soaking it in 
milk the night before, less cooking will be requisite." 



178 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But the recipes employed in Great Britain and 
upon the Continent to the glory of the Chantarelle 
would almost fill a fair-sized receipt book, and some 
of them are quite elaborate. A few of these are giv- 
en in a later chapter. After a trial of a number of 
them the writer is assured that the simple broiling or 
frying in butter or oil, with proper seasoning, and 
serving on toast, will prove a most acceptable sub- 
stitute. 

Another species of Chantarelle, which might possi- 
bly be confounded with the C. cibarius, is the Orange 

Chantarelle, C. aurantiacus, which is 
Another pronounced " scarcely esculent " by the 
species authorities. Its average size is much 
smaller than the true Chantarelle, and 
its much deeper orange hue, and straighter, more 
regularly branched and crowded gills, will readily 
identify it, the "gills of cibarius being thicker, and 
usually somewhat eccentric and netted. Like the 
foregoing, it assumes the funnel form with age, as 
indicated in the generic name, Cantharellus  u a di- 
minutive drinking -cup." 




pyh/yporc 




^HE previous examples of mushrooms 
I have all been included in the order 
1 of the Agarics, or " gill- bearing " 
I fungi, the under spore-bearing sur- 
j face of the cap having been disposed 
in the form of lamina? or gills. We 
will now pass to the consideration of a class of 
mushrooms certain of which enjoy a wider reputa- 
tion as " toadstools " than any other species, a new 
botanical order of fungi  the Polyporei  in which 
the gills are replaced by pores or tubes  polyporus 
{many pores). Conspicuous among the Polyporei 
are those great shelf -like woody growths so fre- 
quently to be seen on the trunks of trees, and popu- 
larly known as "punk," "tinder," and " touch - wood," 
and many of which increase in size year by year 
by accession of growth at the rim. A few of these 
lateral -stemmed species are edible during their 
young state, one or two of which are included in 
my subsequent pages. But the most notable group 
from the standpoint of esculence is the typical genus 
Boletus, containing a large number of species, and 
of which Plate 20 presents a conspicuous example. 
Especial attention should here be called to the nota- 



1 82 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ble monograph on the Boleti of the United States 
by State Botanist Professor Charles Peck, of Albany 

University, New York, which presents 
Works by detailed descriptions of one hundred 
Prof. Peck and eight indigenous species. Other 

contributions to mycological literature 
by this distinguished American authority are noted 
in my bibliographical list at the close of the volume* 

THE BOL ETI 
Tube mushrooms 

The structure of these mushrooms is clearly shown 
in Plate 38, in my chapter on "Spore -prints," the 
hymenium being here spread upon the honey-combed 
pore surfaces, and shedding its spores from the tubes. 
Each of these tubes is distinct and may be separated 
from the mass. 

The ideal form as shown in Plate 20 is perfectly 
symmetrical, in which condition the pores would nat- 
urally be perpendicular. But this perfection seldom 
prevails, and we continually find the specimens more 
or less eccentric in shape, especially where they are 
crowded or have met with obstruction in growth. 
But in any case, no matter what the angle or 
distortion of growth during development, the tubes 
are always adjusted to the perpendicular, or in mal- 
formed individuals as nearly so as the conditions 
will permit, as shown in the section on next page. 

The Boleti are in general a salubrious group. 
Certain species have long been accredited as being 
poisonous, and others excluded from the feast as "sus- 
picious." The early authorities caution us to avoid 



POLYPOREI 185 

all Boleti having any shade of red on the spore-bear- 
ing surface beneath, even as it was originally claimed 
that all red'Capped toadstools were poisonous. But 
from the writer's own individual experiments, rein- 
forced by the experience of others, he is beginning 
to be persuaded that the Boletus as a genus has been. 




SECTION OF BOLETUS SHOWiSO PERPENDICULAR TUBES 

maligned. Many species accredited as poisonous he 
has eaten repeatedly without the slightest deleterious 
consequences, including the crimson Boletus. B. a/- 
veolaius (Plate 24, fig. 2), with its red spore surf-ice, 
and the B. subiomentosus {Plate 22, fig. 1), whose yel- 
lowish flesh, like the species just mentioned, changes 
quickly to blue upon fracture, a chemical feature 
which has long stamped both species as dangerous. 



1 84 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It is interesting to note that the ban is gradually 
being lifted from the Boleti by mycophagists of 
distinction, largely through their own experiments. 
Thus I note that Mr. Mcllvaine, who has made a 
close study of esculent fungi, in a recent article 
claims that "all the Boleti are harmless, though 
some are too bitter to eat " ; and Mr. Palmer, in his 

admirable portfolio of esculent fungi, 
Maligned includes among his edible species one 
species of those whose flesh " changes color on 
fracture," and which has hitherto been 
proscribed as "off color." Of course, this food se- 
lection would obviously apply only to species of 
inviting attributes, possessing pleasant odor, agree- 
able taste, and delicate fibre. The selection com- 
prised in this volume is confined to a few varieties of 
established good repute. As to the rest if only on 
the consideration of idiosyncrasy  it is wiser to urge 
extreme caution on the lines laid down on page 34. 

The Boletus, like all other mushrooms, passes 
through a variety of forms from its birth to maturity, 

at first being almost round, then con- 
Changes ve ^jk t j ie S p 0re sur face nearlv flat, 

of form r - 

in growth horizontal, the profile outline finally 

almost equally cushion-like on both up- 
per and lower surfaces, or the upper surface absolutely 
flat. Mere outline drawings of a number of Boleti 
would be almost identical. The form alone, there- 
fore, is of minor importance in their identification. 
Among those more readily recognized by their color 
and structural features, may be classed the following 
common species: 



cSolcttiA cduli 



) 



TLATE XX 

EDIBLE BOLETUS 

Boletus edulis 

Pileus: Cushion-like; moist; variable in color, light brown 
to darker brownish red; surface smooth but dull; dimen- 
sions at full expansion, three to six or eight inches. 

Tube surface (A  magnified) : Whitish in very young spec- 
imens, at length becoming yellow and yellowish green. 
Pore openings, angled. 

Spores: Ochre-colored. 

Stem : Stout ; often disproportionately elongated. Pale 
brown, generally with a fine raised net-work of pink 
lines near junction of cap. 

Flesh : White or yellowish, not changing color on fracture. 

Taste: Agreeable and nutty, especially when young. 

Habitat: Woods, especially during July and August; com- 
mon. 



PLATE XX 




POLYPOREI 189 

EDIBLE TUBE MUSHROOM 
Boletus edulis 

The most prominent member of the Boleti is the 
typical species whose portrait I have given on Plate 
20, " in vain calling himself 4 edulis! where there were 
none to believe him." But in spite of this remark of 

Dr. Badham, which had reference es- 
A famous pecially to his native country, England, 
delicacy this fungus had long been a favorite 
article of food among a large class of 
the more lowly Europeans, to say nothing of the lux- 
urious epicures of the continent. 

Boletus edulis is to be found singly or in groups, 
usually in the woods. Its average diameter is per- 
haps four or five inches, though specimens are occa- 
sionally found of double these dimensions. A letter 
to the writer from a correspondent in the Rocky 
Mountains describes specimens measuring fifteen 
inches in diameter having been found there. 

The cushion -like cap is more or less convex, ac- 
cording to age, of a soft brownish or drab color 

somewhat resembling kid, and with 

Specific velvety softness to the touch. The 

characters under surface or hymenium is thickly 

beset, honey -combed with minute ver- 
tical pores, which will leave a pretty account of them- 
selves upon a piece of white paper laid beneath 
them and protected from the least draught, a proc- 
ess by which we may always obtain a deposit of 
the ochre-tinted spores, as is further described in 
a later chapter. 



190 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

In Boletus edulis this pore surface is white in 
young specimens, later yellow, finally becoming 
bright olive - green ; flesh white or creamy \ un- 
changeable on fracture. Stem paler than cap, thick, 
swollen at base, often malformed and elongated, es- 
pecially when from a cluster, generally more or less 
covered with vertical raised ridges, which become 
somewhat netted together and pinkish as they ap- 
proach the cap. The taste is sweet, and in the very 
young specimen, which is brittle, quite suggestive of 
raw chestnut. 

Any Boletus answering this description may be 
eaten without fear, assuming, of course, that its sub- 
stance is free from any taint of disso- 
insects lution and traces of insect contamina- 
and decay tion. Both of these conditions are too 

apt to prevail in the mature specimens, 
and all Boleti are more safely employed for food in 
their young crisp stage, or at least before their full 
expansion. In their maturity, moreover, they often 
prove too mucilaginous in consistency to be pleasant 
to the average partaker, especially the novice. 

In preparing them for the table, all that is neces- 
sary is to cut off the stems, which are apt to be 

tough and fibrous, and to wipe the pel- 
Preparation licle of the cap perfectly clean, or, if 
for table preferred, to pare the pileus with a very 

sharp knife. It is recommended by 
some that the entire mass of the pore section be re- 
moved. In a mature specimen this would reduce 
the bulk of the mushroom by half, and, moreover, 
deprive the remainder of the full flavor of the fun- 



cSolctu.i Acak 



vr 



TLATE XXI 

ROUGH-STEMMED BOLETUS 
Boletus seaber 

Pileus: Rounded convex; diameter two to five inches; sur- 
face occasionally smooth and viscid when moist; color 
usually brownish red, but varying from orange brick red 
or even black in certain varieties to yellow or whitish. 

Tube surface : Rounded, cushion-like ; whitish at first, be- 
coming dingy; tube openings small and round, and rather 
long as seen in section. 

Spores: Reddish brown. 

Stem : Solid, dingy white, tapering slightly above, more or 
less thickly beset with brownish, fibrous, dot-like scales, 
this being the most pronounced botanical character for 
identification. 

Flesh : White or dingy in certain varieties, often changing to 
blue, brown, pinkish, or black where wounded. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant. 

Habitat: A common and widely distributed species, with 
many variations of color. Found in woods and shaded 
waste-places. 

Season : July-October. 




bOLETUS SCABt : .R 



POLYPOREI I95 

gus. I have not found it necessary, and it is cer- 
tainly needless in a young and tender specimen. 

ROUGH - STEMMED BOLETUS 
Boletus scaber 

This is a very common mushroom in our woods 
all through the summer and autumn, in reasonably 
moist weather. It is figured in Plate 21. The 
cap of an average specimen expands four inches or 
more, is of a brown or brownish buff color, and vis- 
cid when moist. The pore -surface is dingy white, 
the tube orifices being quite minute and round  not 
so conspicuously angular or honey -combed as in 
other species  and with occasional reddish stains, 
presumably a deposit from the floating spores, 
which are tawny reddish. The flesh is dirty white, 
the stem solid, contracting upwards, and rough with 
fibrous brownish scaly points  whence the name 
"scaber"  often arranged somewhat in vertical lines. 
Epicures fail to agree as to the esculent qualities of 
this mushroom. It is certainly inferior to the edu/is. 

THE YELLOW- CRACKED BOLETUS 
Boletus subtomentosus 

The general contour of the present species  B. 
subtomentosus (Plate 22, fig. 1)  resembles the fore- 
going, but it is easily distinguished by 
specific the color of its cap and tube surface, 
qualities the pileus being usually olive, olive- 
brown, or red of various shades ; the 
color, however, does not extend to the flesh beneath 
the peeled cuticle, as in B. chrysenteron, Fig. 2. The 



IT 



I96 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

surface is soft and dry  subtomentous  to the touch* 
Cracks in the cap become yellow, on which account 
this species is called the "yellow -cracked Boletus/ 1 
in contradistinction to the red-cracked B. chrysen- 
tcron. Its most important distinction, however, is of 
a chemical nature. 

The stem is stout, unequal, firm, yellowish, and 
more or less ribbed, occasionally tinted, minutely 
dotted, or faintly striped with the color of the cap. 
The taste of the flesh is sweet and agreeable. 
Palmer compares it to the flavor of walnuts. The 

tube surface is yellow or yellowish green, 
The blue and the tubes and yellowish flesh of cap 
stain and stem turn a rich peacock - blue im- 

mediately on fracture, becoming deeper 
moment by moment until the entire exposed portion 
becomes leaden  especially noticeable in mature 
specimens. The pore surface shows a similar blue 
stain whenever bruised. The tubes are angular- 
sided instead of round, and much larger than in the 
B. edulis ; spores ochre colored. 

This blue stain was formerly, and is even now, 
deemed sufficient with many mycophagists to place 
this mushroom on the black-list, but is believed by 
Mr. Palmer and Mr. Mcllvaine to be unwarranted 

as a stigma, assuming that fresh speci- 
An A ^ mens are employed. The B. subtomen- 

unwarranted l J 

stigma tosus is also among the eleven edible 

Boleti in the list of Dr. Curtis, given 

on a previous page, and the present author has 

habitually eaten the species with enjoyment and 

without unpleasant results. Fresh young specimens 



cfooletu.) dubtomcntoMid 
cJooletiLi cli ii/.ien town 



77./ 77" .VV;/ 



VlfLl/AV CRACKED ROI.HH > 
i. Boletus subtomentosus 

u!V! i  ni!:v\i , ui- -.vllnwish i><\\ n. *.!;\\. m  >-;\"i 
v=i '. i'pi..\*-:rr< m ft ji..! Jr\, with : r 2 t : - - }*''<: 

Klcsh  * :v;;i!V \*  :Ii* ip  n.iTs ::' spv. imcr.s. cr..i':i ;p.j ' 

.; ; .u Ic-iu.'"! !r>.ii-n <p rr;kiit!V. 
Tii>"- -.Lirfact . Yi ! v.' ! vdlnwMi ^'cin. bccwr. : i :j 

S-' m : .v .. \v-i! -v. i>h : 1 ::*:=.: 1 1  1 \- :, -iijIu'IIlJ v "!; 
 1. >!:' >!i-pi\i \vi;h u :>.-\\ :i. 



:'- 



t . 



 

T:\stL  A'-.'t'' .i'!j IlUVimNl 1 . 

Hah t: Y.\  ,!>. 

Sr-  i : St. :i.-.-r ;i!iJ .  . :t t.i:i;i. 



H - 



t ; 



>  1 *  T  

*. i ' ' '  \ ,!-.:.  . ' i ' 



 ': : \  I / 1 1 " P I" '.' x * *  1 f  * f ' " ! ' 



. f 



v. 



VLATE XXII 

YELLOW CRACKED BOLETUS 
i. Boletus subtomentosus 

Pileua: Diameter three to six inches. Color, varying in dif- 
ferent individuals, yellowish brown, olive, or subdued tan 
color; epidermis soft and dry, with a fine pubescence. 
Cracks in surface become yellow. 

Flesh : Creamy white in mature specimens, changing to blue, 
and at length leaden on fracture. 

Tube surface : Yellow or yellowish green, becoming bluish 
when bruised; opening of tubes large and angled. 

Stem: Stout; yellowish; minutely roughened with scurfy 
dots, or faintly striped with brown. 

Spores : Brownish ochre. 

Taste : Sweet and agreeable. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season : Summer and autumn. 

GOLDEN-FLESH BOLETUS 
2. Boletus chrysenteron 

Pileus: Diameter two to four inches; convex, becoming 
more flattened; soft to the touch, varying from light yel- 
lowish brown to bright brick red ; more or less fissured 
with red cracks and clincks. 

Flesh: Rich, bright yellow, red immediately beneath the 
cuticle. 

Tube surface : Olive-yellow, becoming bluish where bruised ; 
tube openings rather large, angled, and unequal in size. 

Stem: Generally stout and straight; yellowish, and more or 
less streaked or spotted with the color of the cap. 

Spores: Light brown. 

Habitat: Woods and copses. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



77 .'//" .V w7 



in ! >\v i;i<\rKi:D Bourn '- 



Uolems subtomentosus 



. * -. 



 



V 



Tit 



.  1!) v\ Nil l'!'w\.\ ii. '.! \ v'. "! > ,' >.:. 

-. !t .ii .1 i'r\. witJi ; r i r t }V  . 

{ *r ii , M. \V:I\V. 
Y '  .' ' Vt ii-'Wish ^VvP, lVv/i>!: !!:'  

. in;' t.-Iv p-'i.'L'liont-J w ,; :; 

I'  .-: : 



J 



.  . ,: 



't i IT '"* 



<ii )!.!>;- \-n i-;sn bmilti s 



i ( 



 . . . k ; 



iV Y.- | "Jt'T i Vi , M: 



r-.i 



POLYPOREI 20 1 

with the least change of color would perhaps be the 
wiser choice for the novice. 

Another species having this peculiar property of 
"turning blue" even in a more marked degree, and 
named, in consequence, the B. cyanescens, though 
always heretofore considered poisonous, is now pro- 
nounced by certain prominent mycoph- 
Caution agists to be not only harmless but es- 
advisabie culent. It is still advisable, however, 

to caution moderation in its use as 
food, if only on the ground of idiosyncrasy. The 
spores of this species are white, which, with the more 
minute tube openings, form a sufficient discrimina- 
tion from sublomcntosus. The spores should be ob- 
tained by a deposit on black or dark -colored paper. 
The flesh is white also. Other blue-stain species, 
such as B. aiveolatus (Plate 24), are still considered 
with suspicion, presumably groundless. 

YELLOW-FLESHED BOLETUS 
Boletus chrysentcron 

Among the toadstools which tradition would sure- 
ly brand as poisonous on account of " bright color " is 
the common species whose name heads this para- 
graph, and which is illustrated in Plate 22, fig. 2. In 
its various shapes it suggests the preceding varieties. 
Its cap, however, is brownish red, often bright brick 
red. Flesh almost lemon - yellow, stained red just be- 
neath the cuticle, and not noticeably changeable on 
fracture. Tube surface yellowish green, turning blue 
or bluish green when bruised. Spores light brown. 
Tubes rather large, angular, and unequal in shape of 



202 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

aperture. Stem yellow, often brightly colored with 
the red of the cap. Chance cracks in its surface be- 
come red, whence the common name of the " Red- 
cracked Boletus." A species frequent in woods 
throughout the summer and autumn, and edible. 

In its brightly colored cap it might possibly be 
superficially confounded with the suspicious Boletus 
alveolatus of Plate 24. But the latter species is ea- 
sily distinguished by its rose-colored spores and red 
pore surface. 

CON E-LIK# BOLETUS 

Strobilamyces strobilaeeus 

Another allied species, not especially famous for its 
esculent qualities, but which is, nevertheless, not to be 
despised, is here introduced on account of its espe- 
cially pronounced character (Plate 23)  the cone-like 
Boletus, or, more properly, Strobilomyces. It is of a 
brownish gray color, its shaggy surface more or less 

studded with deep brown or black wool- 
Botanical ly points, each at the centre of a scale- 
characters like segment. The tubes beneath are 

covered by the veil in the younger 
specimens, but this at length breaks, leaving ragged 
fragments hanging from the rim of the pileus. The 
pore surface thus exposed is at first a grayish white, 
ultimately becoming brown. The substance of the 
fungus turns red when broken or cut. 

This very striking mushroom is found in woods, 
especially under evergreens. It frequently attains a 
diameter of four inches. Its spores are a deep 
brown, and a specimen selected at the stage when the 



C$Viobilomijce6 dtiobilacew 



) 



TLATE XXIII 

THE CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 

Strobilomyces strobilaceus 

Pileus: From two to four inches in diameter, covered with 
a soft gray wool drawn into regular cone -like points 
tipped with dark brown. 
Flesh grayish white, turning red when bruised. 

Pore surface : Grayish white in young specimen, and then 
usually covered with the veil; dark brown or almost 
black at maturity. Plate 38 shows a spore-print of this 
species. 

Spores : Very dark brown. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant. 

Odor: Sweet and mild. 

Habitat : Woods; singly or in small clusters. 



\ 



PLATE XXIII 




POLYPOREI 207 

under surface is flat will yield a most beautiful spore 
print if laid upon white paper and protected from the 
atmosphere, as described in a later chapter. 

A reproduction of one of these prints is shown in 
Plate 38, the white reticulation representing the con- 
tact of the tube orifices with the paper, 
Black each tube depositing its dot composed 
spore-prints of spores, the depth of color increasing 

in proportion to the time involved in 
the deposit. A single mushroom will yield a half- 
dozen or more prints. This fungus dries readily, 
and may be kept indefinitely. 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 
Boletus felleus  B. alveolatus 

In Plate 24 are shown two examples of the Boleti 
which have commonly been accounted poisonous  
B. felleus and B. alveolatus  and, in the absence of 
absolutely satisfactory assurance to the contrary, it is 
safer from our present point of view to consider them 

still as suspicious and to give them a 

Maligned wide berth. There can be no doubt 

species but that the popular condemnation of 

the Boleti has been altogether too 
sweeping. The gradual accession of many question- 
able species to the edible list of Messrs. Mcllvaine 
and Palmer and other daring mycophagists is a 
sufficient, attestation of this fact. Thus subtontcnto- 
sus and cyanescens, already described, always hereto- 
fore branded as reprobates, are now redeemed from 
obloquy, and even the universal ill -repute of the B. 
sat aims, with its pale pileus and blood -red pores, 



208 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

lias not frightened the indefatigable Captain Mc li- 
mine from a personal challenge and encounter with 

this lurid specimen, with the result that 
a daring ^ formidable "Satanas" has proved 

pioneer 

mycophagist anything but deserving of its name  

not half so lurid as it has been paint- 
ed; indeed, it has been even pronounced "the best 
of them all." Of course there's no telling to what 
extent the considerations of contrast, through sur- 
prise and the consequent demoralization on the, con- 
tingents of the personal equation, may have. influ- 
enced the captain's discrimination, but it certainly 
would appear, to put it negatively, that even the ill- 
favored world -renowned B. satanas has apparently 
been freed from aspersion as an enemy of mankind. 

But it is well for the amateur to avoid these notori- 
ous species absolutely until their edibility becomes 
universally accepted by the " professionals." 

The Boletus felleus (Plate 24, fig. 1) is a very com- 
mon species. The pinkish substance of this Boletus 

is so extremely bitter when raw as to 

The bitter make it sufficiently repellent as food. 
Boletus The color of its smooth cap varies from 
creamy yellow to reddish brown. Sub- 
stance white in young specimens, flesh color or pink- 
ish in older individuals. Tube surface white at first, 
becoming pinkish. Opening of tubes, angled. Stem 
usually more or less netted with raised lines towards 
cap. Spores pinkish or "flesh colored." Common 
in rich soil in woods. 

Boletus alveolatus.  Pileus smooth and polished, 
usually rich crimson or maroon, sometimes varied 



t 



<yooLetud alveolatud 



cJooLetud fetteu. 



) 



TLATE XXIV 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 
Alveolate Boletus Boletus alveolatus 

Pileus: Smooth, polished; bright, deep crimson or maroon, 
occasionally mottled or marbled with yellowish; three to 
six inches in diameter. 

Flesh: Firm and solid in substance; pale greenish or yellow- 
ish white, changing blue in fracture or where bruised. 

Tubes: Tube - surface reaching the stem proper; undulate 
with uneven hollows; maroon, the tubes in section being 
yellow beyond their dark red mouths. 

Spores: Yellowish brown. 

Stem : Usually disproportionately long, covered with depres- 
sions or oblong pitted indentations, with intermediate 
coarse network of raised ridges; red and yellow. 

Habitat: Woods; quite common. 

Bitter Boletus Boletus felleus 

Pileus: At first firm in substance, becoming soft and cushion- 
like; smooth, without polish, varying in color from pale 
ochre to yellowish or reddish brown; diameter three to 

nine inches. 

Flesh: White on immediate section, generally changing to 
slight pinkish or flesh color in fracture. 

Tubes: 1 ube-surtace rounded upward as it reaches stem; 
white at first, becoming dull pinkish with age, or upon 
being bruised. 

Spores : Flesh colored or dull pink. 

Stem: Usually quite stout, nearly as smooth as the cap, and 
somewhat lighter in color; more or less ridged with coarse 
reticulations, occasionally covered with them to its thick- 
ened base. 

Taste: Bitter. 

Habitat: Rich woods and copses, often about decaying" 
trunks. 




Suspicious Boleti. 



BOLETUS ALVEOLATUS. 



POLYPOREI 213 

with paler yellowish tints. Substance very solid, 
changing to blue on fracture or bruise. Tube sur- 
face deep dull crimson or maroon, this 
The crimson color not extending the full length of 
Boletus the pores, which are yellow a short dis- 
tance above their mouths. The stem 
is quite stout and tall for the size of the cap as 
compared with other Boleti. It is mottled in yellow 
and bright red or crimson, and conspicuously meshed 
with a net-work of firm ridges. The spores are yel- 
lowish brown. A conspicuous and easily identified 
species. 

THE VEGETABLE BEEFSTEAK 
Fistulina hcpatica 

Our next member of the Polyporus order, or tube- 
bearing fungi, is a unique member of the fun- 
gus tribe, and cannot be mistaken for any other 
species. An example of this species is shown in 
Plate 25, the beefsteak mushroom  Fistulina he- 
patica. The specimen from which my drawing was 
made was found growing at the foot of a chestnut- 
tree, and was about nine inches across 
Botanical by about two in greatest thickness. Its 
characters upper surface was dark meaty red or 

liver colored, somewhat wet, or viscid 
and clammy, and its taste slightly acid. The under 
tube surface was yellowish white, and, as the section 
will show, was proportionately thin  the pores being 
about one-eighth of an inch in length. The solid 
red substance much resembled meat, and in sections 
was streaked with darker lines of red, as indicated in 
plate, somewhat suggesting a section of beet-root. 



214 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Though not common in my vicinity, I neverthe- 
less succeed in obtaining a few specimens during 
the season. It varies greatly in size and shape. 
M. C. Cooke, in his admirable "plain and easy" 
account of British fungi, says of it: "When old it 

affords an excellent gravy, and when 

Savory young, if sliced and grilled, would pass 

qualities f or a good beefsteak. Specimens are 

now and then met with that would fur- 

nish four or five men with a good dinner, and they 

have been collected weighing as much as thirty 

pounds. The liver, or paler pinkish meaty color, 

clammy viscidity, and streaky section are sufficient 

guides in the recognition of this species." 

It is a highly prized article of diet on the Continent 
where the arts of the chef are ingeniously employed 

in endless recipes for its savory prep- 
Culinary aration, often, it would seem, with the 
preparation main object of obliterating as far as 

possible all trace of the delicate flavor 
of the mushroom per se. 

If the . reader's experience correspond with the 
writer's in his mycological experiments "a la mode" 
he will gladly fall back to the plain plebeian method 
of simply broiling over the coals, or frying or roast- 
ing in the pan, with the least possible seasoning of 
pepper, salt, and butter, relying upon his mushroom 
to furnish the predominant zest and flavor. 

Other hints for serving this fungus are given in a 
later chapter. Besides the common name of " beef- 
steak mushroom," it is also known on the Continent 
as the "oak tongue," and "chestnut tongue." 



cTUtuLinao liepaticao 



THE BEEFSTEAK MUSHROOM 
FfsndiBJL hepatic* 

Ptleus: I v .jL*v:ir j^ru^e srec*::. about sL\ inches, occa- 
>;cr j ;> 4 :\\ :ce ,t :>.- rimes :hi> sire : color varying from 
^;*\<>> :;* ij.-k ~ejL:v revi; suruce roughened with mi- 

Ftesh: L:^:^vi- sr^Aiv: w::h ij-kerred: tender an J juicy 

__ ... -  

*.. S. ><.* <JL x. <. - ^ .  ..'. .  T^> .  > ...x..  - - .   v>'\ii 

o^. % >^ *. . - , >. . ... - .*_ - _ 

Sets,:- X .*". *\\ 



TLATE XXV 

THE BEEFSTEAK MUSHROOM 

Fistulina hepatica 

Pileus : Diameter, average specimen, about six inches, occa- 
sionally twice or three times this size; color varying frpm 
pinkish to dark meaty red; surface roughened with mi- 
nute papillae ; soft and moist. 

Flesh : Light red, streaked with darker red ; tender and juicy 
in young specimens; juice light red. 

Tube surface: Creamy in color; tubes distinct from each 
other, crowded, very short, as shown in section opposite. 

Stem : Short or obsolete, growing at the side. 

Taste : Slightly acid. 

Habitat : On the stumps and trunks of oak and chestnut trees. 

Season: July-September. 



POLYPOREI 219 

THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 
Polyporus sulphureus 

Probably the most conspicuous member of our na- 
tive polyporei remains to be considered among the 
esculents, though until recently it was included in the 
black list, Dr. Curtis, of North Carolina, I believe, 
having first demonstrated its edibility, though pro- 
nouncing it merely " tolerable." 

The brilliancy of its sulphur-yellow and orange- 
salmon colors, in association with its large size, ren- 
ders it a most conspicuous object, especially from its 




habit of growing in dense clusters, often a number 
of such clusters in close contiguity upon a decay- 
ing stump or prostrate log, frequently so numerous 
and so crowded as to completely conceal the bark 




beneath, as shown in the accompanying figure, or 
completely covering a space of several square feet 

There lies before me even as I write a fragment 
of a single cluster which I plucked yesterday from the 
trunk of an apparently healthy red-oak near my stu- 
dio, the remainder of the clump having been enjoyed 
as a special course in my dinner of last evening. In 
Plate 26 I present a portrait of this specimen, the 
well-named Sulphur Polyporus  Polyporus sulpku- 
reus. It may be found frequently from July till 
frost upon its favorite habitat of old trunk, stump, log 
water-trough, or fence- 
post, usually upon wood 
in the early stages of 
decay. A single clus- 
ter will often measure a 
foot indiameterthrough 
its very solid mass of 
thickened pulpy branch- 
es, its early and escu- 
lent stage being thus 
compact with the sub- 
divisions ascending 
from their common 
thick stem, the mass somewhat suggesting a cauli- 
flower in shape, as shown in the illustration above. 

The general color at this tender stage is pure sul- 
phur-yellow, this being the ultimate lower or spore 
surface now exposed by its upright position. The 
true upper surface or cap of the later eccentrically 
branched fungus is of a bright orange -salmon color, 
and is mostly concealed by the crowded growth. 




Wlt'NG SPECIMEN 



POLYPOREI 221 

The specimen above alluded to would have weigh- 
ed about two pounds, and this central mass was so 
crowded as to afford scarcely a glimpse of the pink- 
ish-orange pileus surface. Upon showing my speci- 
men to a friend, I was informed that a certain log 
by the roadside about two miles distant was covered 

with this same kind of fungus, which 
A voice seemed to be spreading all over the 

wilderness ground. Doubtless ten or twenty 

pounds of good nourishing food was 
thus going begging by the way -side, even in sight 
of a rural homestead, whose lord and master finds 
the butcher's bill a serious drain upon his resources. 

My plate shows a more open cluster of the fungus 
in its earlier stages, the only time when it is fit for 
food. In this condition it is tender, succulent, and 
juicy. In a few days the lobed fringes or fan -like 
divisions have lowered and spread out as widely as 
their crowded condition will permit, assuming the 
horizontal or even drooping position seen at C, and 
at D in the plate, as viewed from above. The pileus 
now being exposed, the fungus presents a deep 
orange-red or salmon color to the beholder, its sul- 
phurous -hued pore surface being turned beneath. 
Its texture at this adult stage is tough, fibrous, and 
almost woody, especially as it approaches the stem, 
and no one would think of eating it. 

The young specimen, however, is quite delicious 
and wholesome, and, considering that a single cluster 
will afford a dinner for a large family, its importance 
as a food product, especially to the farmer or peasant 
who finds economy a necessity, is thus manifest. 



222 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Tasted at the tip, it yields for the first moment of 
mastication an acid flavor recalling that of the Fistn- 
Una hepatica. This is followed by a sweet, slightly 
mucilaginous savor, which, in the realization that the 
species is wholesome, will at once prove an invitation 
to further experiment with the fungus as food. 

The texture of the young mushroom will be found 
to vary in its different parts, extremely tender at the 

thickened tuberculated tips, becoming 
Texture fibrous as the stem is approached, and 

and quality increasing in toughness, in fracture 

suggesting wood in appearance (see A, 
Plate 26), and unless the specimen is very young 
this portion will have to be excluded from the diet. 
Excepting this precaution it needs no preparation 
for the table, assuming, of course, that the substance 
is free from grubs, which will presumably be the 
case, as I have never seen this fungus thus infested 
except in its more advanced woody growth. 

I have not as vet satisfied mvself as to the best 
methods of cooking this polyporus. Fried in butter 
it lias a tendency to become slightly tough in consist- 
ency, in its white stringy fibre as well as in taste 
closely su^estinij the "white meat" of chicken. 

It lends itself well to a stew or ragout, 
Methods and might, perhaps, to a curry, the 

of cooking substance beinu: cut or broken in small 

pieces and treated after the manner 
of meat under similar recipes. Following the hints 
contained in our last chapter, many methods of its 
culinary treatment will suggest themselves. 

The freely expanded specimen of this species is 



92. 



<<// 



MlUd dll 



Ip/iincu. 



) 



TLATE XXVI 

THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 

Polyporus sulphureus 

In the mature specimen the growth is horizontal, spreading 
fan-like from stem, undulating with radiating flutings. 
Upper surface salmon orange or orange red, the edge 
being smooth and unevenly thickened with nodule -like 
prominences. In young specimen ascending, under yel- 
low surface outwardly exposed. 

Pore Surface : Bright sulphur yellow ; pores very minute. 

Spores : Dingy white. 

Stem : Very short; a mere close attachment for the spreading 
growth. 

Taste: Slightly acid and mucilaginous when raw; after cook- 
ing somewhat suggesting white meat of chicken. 

Odor : Suggesting A. campestris. 

Habitat : On tree trunks, particularly oaks, often growing in 
very large clusters. 

A. Section of fungus showing fibre. 
C. and D. Matured specimen. 






i 'i/NOrus bulphureus 



.-} :> : y\/:>:\\. . . 

 :':..- W L'l iMJ:.!!"'lu 
1 , ! : : Ii :\ v ! i v. V . n . I 



I V. 



 : '\ 1 .-. P--N-S V- ;-\ : 



i : 



 \  \. ! i I I t   .   in I I , i r k V \  



4 .1 

.1 



:*:'" ".'.'.i.-! 1 ""V 1 *:  " 



PLATE XXVI 




POLYPOREI 227 

full of beauty, in its wavy fan-like form and flowing 
lines and flutings presenting a suggestive decora- 
tive theme, whether in the branches of 
lts painting, sculpture, or the plastic arts. 

attributes The pores upon its sulphurous surface 

are so minute as to be scarcely visi- 
ble, but they shed a copious quantity of whitish 
spores. The pileus of the dried specimen is often 
more or less frosted with minute white crystals  
binoxalate of potash  and the spore surface dulls 
to the color of buckskin. 

Another remarkable feature about this fungus, if 
report be true, is its visibility by night, not merely 

from its pale yellow hue, but by an act- 
Luminous ual flood of bluish luminous phospho- 
by night rescent light, the environment of its 

haunt in the woods sometimes being 
lighted up by the effulgence from its ample mass of 
growth, a resource not uncommon among the fungi, 
and popularly known under the name of "foxfire." 
This phenomenon is frequently observable in woods 
at night, following rainy weather. An old stump 
or prostrate log will appear streaked with lines of 
brilliant light. If we approach and detach the loos- 
ened bark, its back and the decayed surface of the 
log thus exposed will prove ablaze in phosphores- 
cence, whose presence had scarcely been suspected 
but for the chance fissures which revealed the tell- 
tale streaks. I recall from my boyhood experience 
one such midnight episode as this in which, from 
the peculiar outline of the fallen trunk and the coin- 
cident circumstance of two approximate dots of brill- 



228 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

iant light suggesting the eyes of a huge puma or 
tiger, I stood spell-bound with momentary fear, until 
1 realized that the apparition was only a bugaboo 
after all. Approaching in the darkness, I soon laid 
hold of the rough head of the monster, and with a 
strong pull at the mass of bark of which it was com- 
posed, laid bare several square feet of blazing phos- 
phorescence whose only hint had gleamed through 
those two imaginary eyes, which proved to be holes 
which had disclosed the hidden luminous fungus. 
One authority describes a single mass of this phos- 
phorescence as extending the entire length of a pros- 
trate trunk thirty feet long. 

Hawthorne records having made good use of fox- 
fire upon one occasion when, left in the lurch at 
night by a canal-boat, he procured a phosphorescent 
flambeau which effectually lighted his path for sev- 
eral miles through the otherwise impassable woods. 




r 

r. 



i) 
I 

1 






t 




avqu 



T^HE species of fungi thus far described 
have been confined to the two great 
orders of the Agarics and the Polyporei, 
which include the large majority of our 
edible mushrooms and toadstools. 
The remainder of my selection in the 
present chapter comprises scattered ex- 
amples from four other orders: Hydnei (Spine-bear- 
ers), Clavariei (Coral-fungi), and the Trichogastres 
(Puff-balls), all belonging to the first great division 
of the Sporifera. The remaining two species consid- 
ered  Morel and Helvella, of the order Elvellacei  
are my only representatives of the second grand co- 
hort of the Sporidiifera, whose botanical characters 
are described on page 77. 

In our previous examples the hymenium or spore- 
bearing surface has been disposed upon " gills," as in 
the Agarics, and on " tubes " in the Polypores. In the 
Hydnei group, which we will first consider, this dis- 
seminating surface is spread over spines or teeth. 

The examples selected from this order are both in 
the typical genus Hydnum; and the object of this 



232 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



present book on fungi being especially the presenta- 
tion of only such varieties as are conspicuously self- 
placarded by some distinctive marks for identification, 
these delicious spine- bearing or "hedgehog" mush- 
rooms should of course be included  a genus which 




SECTION OF A HYDNUM 



cannot be mistaken for any other, and which is in- 
stantly recognized by its own peculiar character, al- 
ready mentioned, its spore surface being beset with 
soft, drooping spines instead of pores or gills. There 
are more than a score of species. The two more or 
less common with us are the Hydnum repandum, in 
outline suggesting an ordinary mushroom, and of 



aibifdntim zepandutn 



*PLATE XXVll 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 

Hydnum repandum 

Pileus : Diameter two to five inches, generally irregular, with 
the stem off centre. Color varying from pale buff, the 
typical hue, to a distinct bricky red. 

Spines: Beneath the cap, one-quarter to one-third inch in 
length ; soft, creamy in tint, becoming darker in old spec- 
imens. 

Flesh : Creamy white, solid. 

Stem: Often set eccentrically into the cap; proportionately 
thick and short. 

Taste : Slightly aromatic. 

Habitat: Woods or shaded places in rich soil, often in clus- 
ters. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 237 

which the above cut represents a section, and the //. 
caput-medusa, or Medusa- head Hydnum. None of 
the group is accounted poisonous, though some of 
them are too tough to be acceptable as food. 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 
Hydnum rcpatidutn 

In this species, figured on Plate 27, bearing some- 
what the contour of an Agaric, the spines are all 
confined to the lower surface of the expanded cap. 
The general color of the upper surface is buff, gen- 
erally very pale, occasionally almost white. The 

spines being of similar hue, this color 

Characters and the smoothness of texture have 
and qualities suggested the common popular English 

name of " doeskin mushroom." The 
flesh is firm and white or creamy, turning brownish 
when bruised. Its sweet but slightly pungent or 
peppery taste when raw disappears in cooking. It 
is quite frequent in our woods, and if fresh and free 
from insects may be eaten without the slightest hesi- 
tation. It is a species highly favored on the Conti- 
nent, where the surplus yield is habitually dried and 
kept for winter use. The hot flavor of the raw 
Hydnum was formerly sufficient to brand it as poi- 
sonous, Roques, I believe, having been the first to 
demonstrate its edibility, and Dr. Badham to dis- 
tinguish its mimetic flavor  " Hydna as good as oys- 
ters, which they somewhat resemble in taste." 

Cooke and Berkeley describe a variety of this mush- 
room having a distinctly reddish pileus  H. rufesccns 
 and Prof. Charles Peck gives the species quite a 



238 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

range in its color gamut. " Its color may be pale buff, 
rusty yellow, pale red, or sienna colon" The " pale 

buff " will doubtless be found to be the 

Variations most common. In the variety rufescens 

varieties the size is smaller and the form more 

symmetrical, but the general shape and 

fringe-toothed spore surface are sufficient to identify 

the typical species under any disguise of color. 

The cap is occasionally quite symmetrical, suggest- 
ing the outline of a Boletus in profile, but more com- 
monly is irregular and eccentric, with stem attached 
towards its side, as indicated in section on previous 
page. It may reach the diameter of five inches in 
a fine specimen. 

Its favorite haunt is the open woods, where it may 
be seen from the last of June until September, either 
singly or in clusters, lifting the dried leaves from 
their bed, or occasionally barely revealed beneath 
them. 

But the most important and savory of the entire 
group of Hydnei is the species following: 

THE MEDUSA HYDNUM 
H. caput-medusic 

While driving through the White Mountain Notch, 
many years ago, I chanced upon a mass of cream- 
colored, fringy fungus growing upon a fallen beech- 
log by the side of the road. The fungus was then 
entirely new to me, and I lost no time in making 
a sketch of it, with notes. The growth covered a 
space possibly eighteen inches wide by eight in height, 
and I estimated it would weigh fully five pounds, its 



cK\i/chi uni caput - tneJti.hv. 




PLATE XXVin 

THE MEDUSA MUSHROOM 

Hydnom caput-medusffl 

Spines : The long, soft spines cover the entire exposed por- 
tion of the fungus, which is disposed in fleshy branching 
divisions, each terminating in a "crown" of shorter, 
drooping teeth. The color is pale buff or dark creamy. 

Stem : Short, concealed beneath the growth. 

Taste : Sweet and aromatic, slightly pungent. 

Habitat: Trunks of trees, especially beech. 

Season: July to October. 



' ji?: ji i\\ 



;  ' -:\ - :M!S:l k 







/  r 

Flats XXIX. HYDNUM CAPUT-MEDUS/E 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 245 

most marked feature being the dense growth of 
drooping spines. In my limited knowledge of edible 
fungi at the time, I cautiously left the specimen in 

the woods, afterwards to learn from 

A dinner Dr. Harkness, the mycologist, that I 

thrown away had " thrown away five pounds of the 

most delicious fungus meat known to 
the epicure." I have since found minor specimens 
many times, and can readily understand the enthu- 
siastic encomiums of my connoisseur friend as to its 
esculent qualities. 

This species (Plate 28) cannot be confounded with 
any other; it is of a dark creamy color, and usually 

grows sidewise upon dead beech wood 

Haunt and (Plate 29), sometimes in great profu- 

description sion, especially in the summer. The 

soft spines entirely cover the rounded 
branching protuberances of the fungus. The upper 
teeth are short and form a sort of "crown," falling 
from which the more and more elongated spines are 
firmly pendent beneath, somewhat suggesting as many 
heads of tiny skye-terriers in crowded convocation 
 or a tiny bleached " hedgehog," if you choose. 

A fungus bearing such conspicuous characteristics 
may be gathered and eaten without fear, assuming 
the specimen to be fresh and free from grubs. It will 
be found an aromatic and savory morsel, though sim- 
ply fried in butter and served on toast. 

One other species may be mentioned briefly, the 
H. coralloides, or Moss -mushroom, which is unfamil- 
iar to the writer, but which Curtis includes among 
his edible fungi. It may be found growing sidewise 



246 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" on old trunks of living trees," at first wkite % then 
yellowish, resembling when young the chou-fleur 

(cauliflpwer). From its base, which is 

Mom- tender and fleshy, spring a large num- 

mushroom ber of flexible branches, interlaced and 

assembled in tufts, bearing upon the 
summit of each of their divisions an expansion of 
long points or projections, at first straight, then pen- 
dent, and even curved under, and terminating in 
layers. Cordier says that it is " delicate food." 

Professor Peck speaks enthusiastically of this spe- 
cies. " It is found in woods, especially in hilly and 
mountainous districts, and occurs during rainy or 
showery weather from August to October. It is a 
pretty fungus, and very attractive to those who are 
neither botanists nor fungus eaters, and it is as good 
as it is beautiful. In our botanical expeditions in the 
vast wilderness of the Adirondack region, we were 
often obliged to camp in the woods several nights in 
succession. On such occasions this fungus some- 
times formed a luxurious addition to our ordinarily 
simple and sometimes limited bill of fare." 

The Hydnei may be cooked in the same manner 
as employed for the ordinary mushroom, or gathered 

and dried for winter use, a very com- 
Hyd " um mon custom on the Continent. Owing 
kitchen to the somewhat firm, compact sub- 
stance of these mushrooms they should 
be cooked slowly, in order to preserve their tender- 
ness. Berkeley recommends that they be "previously v 
steeped in hot water. Badham especially favors the 
Hydnum stew, which he claims is "an excellent dish 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 247 

with a flavor of oysters." According to the same au- 
thority it yields also a " very good puree." The 
" oyster " flavor is recognized in many of the epicu- 
rean encomiums on this species. Various hints as 
to its culinary treatment will be found in a later 
chapter. 

THE CORAL OR CLUB FUNGUS 

CI av aria 

What frequenter of the summer and autumn woods 
has failed to observe that occasional dense cluster of 
creamy-colored, coral-like growth such as I have indi- 
cated at Plate 30, and who has thought to gather up 

its fragile, succulent mass with designs 

A neglected on the cook ? I have seen clusters of 

feast this fungus so dense and ample as to 

strikingly suggest a huge cauliflower, 

and representing many pounds in weight. But in 

the absence of popular appreciation it must needs 

decay by "whole hundred -weights" in the woods. 

This is the Clavaria, or coral fungus  more literal- 
ly translated, though less appropriate to this partic- 
ular species, "club fungus"  a representative of a 
genus containing many edible species. 

The one presented in the Plate is Clavaria for- 
mosa, or the elegant Clavaria. It grows from four 
to six inches in height, is deep creamy yellow or pale 
orange buff in color, and slightly reddish at tips of 
branches. It has a sweet taste, a fragile, brittle con- 
sistency, and white substance; its spores are pale- 
ochre colored. Curtis gives thirteen edible native 
species. Among them are the following, which hard- 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ly call for severe technical description, as the entire 
group are doubtless edible: 

The true "coral fungus"  Clavaria coralloidcs 
of our woods resembles C./ormosa in general shape. 




THK WHII'K OJH.H. 



but its color is white, or perhaps pale gray. Its thick 
stem is hollow, and its uneven, crowded branches are 
brittle and flesh - white. Its odor is 
ciavarta like that of the Agaricus campcstris, 
corallolJes and it possesses a sweet, pleasant fla- 
vor. Cordier recommends it as eatable 
even when raw. This species is in great favor 
Germany, Switzerland, and Italy, where it is desic- 
cated for winter use. 






fO 



(btavaiiao foinwMv? 



TL4TE XXX 

THE CORAL FUNGUS 

Clavaria formosa 

Thickly branched from a stout pale base, the dense branchlets 

being tipped with two or three minute teeth. 
Color : Saffron yellow. Tips generally darker and more rosy. 
Flesh: White. 
Spores: Ochre-tinted. 
Taste : Sweet, tender, and delicate. 
Height: Four to six inches. 
Habitat: Woods. 





Clavaria Formosa 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 255 

Clavaria fastigiata is a somewhat dwarf variety, 
usually found on lawns and pastures, seldom reach- 
ing a height of more than two inches. 
Clavaria In general aspect it resembles Fig. 3 in 
fastigiata Plate 31. It is of a yellow color, very 

densely branched from its short, slender 
stem close to the ground, the branches mostly termi- 
nating at the same height. 

All of the above-mentioned species, except C.for- 
mosa, have white spores, and while none of the genus 

is considered poisonous, though some 
White-spored are so bitter and of such tough con- 
species edible sistency as to make them unfit for food, 

it is generally conceded among the au- 
thorities that all white-spored Clavarias are certainly 
edible. The spores are easily obtained by simply 
laying the fungus upon a dark surface and excluding 
the air, as directed in a later chapter. 

The various forms assumed by the Clavarei are 
indicated in Plate 31. 

Fig. 1 is C.flava; 2. C stricta ; 3. C. umbrina ; 4. 
C. rugosa; 5. C. amethystina. Any specimen bearing 
resemblance to any of these in form, and which is 
found to have white spores, may be eaten without 
fear. 

The Clavaria forms a most inviting relish by the 
simple process of frying in butter, with seasoning to 
taste. They have the advantage of being quite free 
from " fungus - worms," and in the larger species are 
occasionally so plentiful that a half -bushel may be 
gathered in a few moments. 

Another species bearing the general shape sug- 



256 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

gested in Plate 31, fig. 1, is the C. botrytis. It has a 
thick, fleshy trunk and swollen branches. Its sub- 
stance is very brittle; color creamy-yellow, with red- 
tipped branchlets. It is found in woods. 

* 

THE MOREL 
Morchdla esculmta 

In decided contrast to any of the foregoing fungi, 
and of unmistakable aspect, is the famous Morel, 
Morchella esculenta (Plate 32). 

The Morel belongs to a cohort of fungi known 
as the Sporidiifera, in which the spores are enclosed 
in bag-like envelopes, in distinction to the Sporifera, 

in which the spores are naked and ex- 

Botanical posed, as shown in Plates 35 and 36. 

characters These cysts, or bags, or asci y which re- 
semble the cystidium in Plate 35, and 
in the family of Ascomycetes, to which the Morel 
belongs, each contains about eight spores, which are 
finally liberated by the bursting of the tip of the 
bag, after the manner of a Puff-ball. 

In the Morel the hymenium or spore-bearing sur- 
face is crowded with these cysts, and covers the 
entire exposed conical and pitted surface of the 
mushroom. 

Description is hardly necessary with its portrait 
before us. No other fungus at all resembles it ex- 
cept those of the same genus, and inasmuch as they 
are all edible, we may safely add to our bill of fare 
any fungus which resembles our illustration. The 
Morel has long been considered as one of the rarest 
of delicacies, always at a fancy premium in the 



c 



z)lboicliellc& aculentcL? 



"PLATE XXXII 

THE MOREL 
Morchella esculenta 

Pileus : Oval, elliptical, or round in outline; diameter one inch 
to three inches in a large specimen ; hollow. Color pale 
yellowish brown, varying to greenish ; surface more or 
less regularly honeycombed with deep depressions. 

Stem : Hollow, dingy white, united to the base of pileus. 

Taste : Sweet and pleasant. 

Habitat: Woods, orchards, and shaded grassy places. 

Season: May and June. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 26 1 

markets  a bon-mot for the rich, a prize for the peas- 
ant. I could fill all my allotted space with the 
delicate schemes of the chefs in its preparation for 
the table. 

Dr. Badham's recommendation, among my list of 
recipes, is worth a trial for the sake of novelty, if 
nothing more. The hollow shape of our Morel thus 
suggests a variation on the conventional methods of 
cooking. 

The color of the Morel in its prime is grayish- 
green, occasionally brownish. It is most commonly 
found in orchards, and is said to favor spots where 
charcoal or cinders have been thrown. 

HELVELLA 
Helvetia erispa 

One of the most strikingly individual of all the 
mushrooms, and one which could not possibly be 
confounded with any other kind, is the example pict- 
ured in Plate 33. With this mere portrait as our 
guide, we might safely classify our specimen  at least, 
as to its genus ; and inasmuch as no one of the 

group is poisonous, and all are edible 
specific with varying degrees of esculence, we 
characters can make no mistake even in our vent- 
ures as amateur mycophagists. When, 
therefore, we find a fungus with such a peculiar, ir- 
regularly fluted and hollowed stem, itself hollow 
within, or tubular, and surmounted with a rather thin, 
flexible, wavy cap, resembling our illustration, we may 
know that we have a specimen of Helvella. If this 

example happens to be creamy above and ochre- 
14 



262 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

colored beneath, it is the Helvetia crispa of our Plate. 
The specimen here shown is somewhat larger than 
in nature. Other species are differently formed and 
colored, one of them having the cap dark ash-colored 
or even black. There are three species occasionally 
met with, of which the first, H. crispa, is the most 
common and perhaps the most delectable. 

The peculiar texture of these mushrooms permits 
of their ready desiccation, and in Britain and on the 
Continent they are commonly strung on strings and 
dried for future use, in which condition they have 
been compared to dried "wash-leather'* in texture. 

The famous aristocratic Morel (Mor- 
Dried chella esculentd), already described, so 

mushrooms prized as food in Europe, and to which 

the Helvella is closely allied, has a sim- 
ilar irregular, pitted, hollowed, and netted surface 
over its entire conical or globular gray cap, and the 
same texture. Most competent judges claim that 
the delicious Morel possesses no advantages over 
the more plebeian Helvella as a delicacy for the 
table. The flavor is identical, and the other qual- 
ities of the two mushrooms make them equally 
desirable. 

The readiness with which they may be dried, and 
thus kept indefinitely, is another distinct advantage 
which the Morels and Helvellas possess over the 
ordinary gilled Agarics, many of which must be gath- 
ered in their young prime and immediately eaten. 

There are numerous ways of serving these fungi, 
among which is the common method of frying with 
butter or oil, and variously seasoning with onion. 



ctbclvcll 



OjT> Ccl. 



ipnr? 



TLATB XXXIII 

THE WHITE HELVELLA 
Helvetia crlspa 

Pileus: Two to three inches in diameter; wavy or curled, 
reflexed at edges, often puckered towards centre; white 
or pale creamy; somewhat leathery in texture in older 
specimens. 

Spore surface : On underside of cap, ochraceous. 

Stem : White, more or less furrowed with vertical hollows. 

Taste : Similar to Morel, to which it is closely allied. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



1 . 








HELVELLA CRI5PA. 






MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 267 

garlic, herbs, etc., according to taste, and serving on 
toast, or with crisped bread-crumbs. Our chapter on 
recipes will suggest other more elaborate methods. 

PUFF-BALLS 

I.ycopcrdacea 

A detailed discrimination of the Puff-balls is hard- 
ly necessary here, and I will therefore omit it. While 
I am not inclined to go so far as to contend, as was 
the quaint habit of old Dr. Culpeper, in his Herbal, 
in which he was wont similarly to elude description 
of an herb, affirming that "he were a fool indeed 
who does not know this plant" or words of similar 




import  it is perfectly safe to say that if there is one 
fungus more than another with which the populace 
is specifically familiar it is the Puff-ball. 

In these fungi, of which there are many species, 
the spores are incased within the white or dingy 
peridium or more or less globular case  gasleromy- 
cetecc, from gas/rr, a stomach. The interior spore 
substance is at first white and firm in structure, at 



268 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

length peppered with gray, both conditions being in- 
dicated in accompanying cut, and ultimately black 
or brown, after which the outer case becomes dry 
and papery, and soon bursts at the summit, liberat- 
ing its clouds of spores with the slight 
Spore-cloud est zephyr, or, later, becoming dislodged 
dissemination f rom its slender anchorage to the soil, 

is whisked before the breeze envelop- 
ed in its spore -smoke. Fries, the eminent fungol- 
ogist, has reckoned the number of these spores in a 
single Puff-ball at ten millions  presumably a con- 
servative estimate. 

But it will surprise most people to know that the 
plebeian Puff-ball of our pastures is good for some- 
thing besides the kick of the small boy. 

There are a number of species of the Puff-ball, 
and none of them is known to be poisonous. 

I have indicated an arbitrary group in Plate 34 
ranging in shape and size from the small white 
globular variety of an inch in diameter, L. saccatum, 
and the pear-shaped Z. gemmatum, to the giant past- 
ure species, which may frequently at- 
Various tain the dimensions of a foot- ball or 
species a bushel basket. In its larger dimen- 
sions it is more spreading in shape, 
being somewhat wider than high. All tlte Puff-balls 
are edible if gathered at the white stage  i.e. y white 
pulp; those of yellow or darker fracture being ex- 
cluded, as the fungus in this later stage is not con- 
sidered fit for food. 

Of the esculent qualities of the larger species, Lyco* 
perdon giganteum, we may judge from the statement 



C0y gioup of U-yiiff-balU 



TLATE XXXIV 

A GROUP OF PUFF-BALLS 
Lyeoperdacea 

The group opposite represents three species. The largest, 
L giganteum; the pear-shaped, L gemmatum; and the small, 
round L saccatum. 

L giganteum. The largest species. Diameter ten to twenty- 
five inches; often more spreading in shape than speci- 
men shown; surface smooth; stem hardly apparent; color 
dingy white in the edible state, at which time the solid 
flesh is also white. Spore dust, at maturity, yellowish 
brown. Grows in fields and pastures. 

L. gemmatum. Stem prolonged and tapering from above, sug- 
gesting the specific name pear-shaped ; color dingy white ; 
surface covered with deciduous warts; substance, young 
state, while ; spore dust brown ; height two to three 
inches. 

L. saccatum. Stemless; white; setting close to the ground; 
one to two inches in diameter; surface covered with loose, 
warty granules; substance, young state, white; spore dust 
brown. 

These and all other Puff-balls are edible in the young condi- 
tion when the pulp is white. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 273 

of a connoisseur: " Sliced and seasoned in butter and 
salt, and fried in the pan, no French omelette is half 

as good in richness and delicacy of 

Esculent flavor/' M. C. Cooke, the British au- 

qualities thority, says of it : u In its young and 

pulpy condition it is excellent eating, 

and indeed has but few competitors for the place of 

honor at the table." Other epicurean suggestions 

will be found in a later page. Occasionally in its 

plenitude, especially during August and September, 

single clusters will be found which would afford a 

meal for a large family. 

Other species, more or less frequent, are the L. 
separans, whose outer epidermis cracks off in flakes 
at maturity; Z. cyathiforme, or cup-shaped Lycoper- 
don, a large species with distinctly purplish smoke 
so familiar to us all, the final cup -shaped remnant 
of its case having suggested its name. The larger 
specimens will be found the more fully flavored. 

There is but one danger which would seem to be 
possible with reference to the use of the Puff-ball as 

food within the restrictions already 
Closing words given, and that is, the remote contin- 
of caution gency  assumable only on the suppo- 
sition of most careless observation  of 
confounding the white ball with the globular condi- 
tion of the Amanita (see Plate 2, fig. 1), or other 
fungi of the same deadly group, which are similarly 
enclosed in a spherical volva in their early stages. 

But inasmuch as this spherical period of the Ama- 
nita is usually spent underground and out of sight, 
and the merest glance at its contents would at once 



274 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

reveal the folded form of the enclosed mushroom, it 
would hardly seem necessary to warn the intelligent 
reader. But "once warned, twice armed;" and for 
absolute safety the tyro would do well to open every 
specimen, and be sure of its even, white, homogeneous 
substance before turning it over to the cook. 

There are a number of other esculent species of 
fungi as easily available and enjoyable as those al- 
ready described, but the scheme of the volume would 
hardly warrant their inclusion. Even though the ele- 
ment of danger is practically eliminated, so far as the 
identification of the foregoing fungi is concerned, it 
is still wise for the amateur to proceed with caution 
until he has absolutely learned the individual i 
in their various forms of development 




i; 








UR common dusty Puff-ball, floating its faint 
trail of smoke in the breeze from the ragged flue 
at its dome-shaped roof as from an elfin tepee, or per- 
haps enveloping our feet in its dense purple cloud as 
we chance to step upon it in the path, is familiar 
to every one. To the mycophagist connoisseur, on 
the alert for every delectable fungus morsel for his 

fastidious appetite, the Puff-ball is in- 
Puff-ball deed pleasantly familiar, though a spec- 
spore-clouds imen in such a powdery stage as the 

above is apt to bring only regrets that 
its discovery has been thus delayed, for in its earlier 
firm white stage he knows it at his table as a most 
delicate entree of " mock omelet." 

The old-time country physician gathered its pow- 
dery bag and carefully preserved it for another pur- 
pose, its spongy, dusty contents having been a time- 
honored remedy as a styptic, or for the arrest of 
hemorrhage from wounds. But by no class of the 
community perhaps is it so enthusiastically welcomed 
as by the small boy, to whom it is always a challenge 
for a kick and a consequent demonstration of smoke 
worthy of a Fourth -of- July celebration. 



278 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A week ago this glistening gray bag, so free with 
its dust-puff at the slightest touch, was solid in sub- 
stance and as white as cottage cheese in the fracture. 
In this condition, sliced and fried, it would have 
proven a veritable delicacy upon our table, quite sug- 
gesting an omelet in consistency and flavor, and in 
size also, if perchance we had been favored with 
one of the larger specimens, which frequently ap- 
proaches the dimensions of a football. 

But in a later stage this clear white fracture would 
have appeared speckled or peppered with gray spots 

(see page 271), and the next day entire- 

Devdopment ly gray and much softened, and, later 

of spores again, brown and apparently in a state 

of decay. But this is not decay. This 
moist brown mass by evaporation becomes powdery, 
and the Puff-ball is now ripe y and preparing for 
posterity. 

Each successive squeeze, as we hold it between our 
fingers, yields its generous response in a puff of 
brown smoke, which melts away apparently into air. 
But the Puff-ball does not thus end in mere smoke. 

This vanishing purple cloud is corn- 
Buoyant posed of tiny atoms, so extremely mi- 

spore-atoms nu te as to require the aid of a powerful 

microscope to reveal their shapes. Each 
one of these atoms, so immaterial and buoyant as to 
be almost without gravity, floating away upon the 
slightest breath, or even wafted upward by cur- 
rents of warm air from the heated earth, has with- 
in itself the power of reproducing another clump of 
Puff-balls, if only fortune shall finally lodge it in con- 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 279 

genial soil. These spores are thus analogous to the 
seeds of ordinary plants. The number of these vital 
atoms or spores in a single Puff-ball is almost past 
computation. Fries, however, an eminent fungologist, 

went to some pains to estimate this 

Number number, and, referring to a certain puff- 

of spores ball, says : " The spores are infinite. In 

a single individual of Reticularia max- 
ima I have reckoned ten millions so subtle as to 
resemble thin smoke as light as if raised by evapo- 
ration, and dispersed in so many ways  by the sun's 
attraction, by insects, by adhesion and elasticity  that 
it is difficult to conceive the spots from which they 
could be excluded." 

We have seen the myriad-fold dispersion of its po- 
tential atoms in the cloud of spore-smoke, but who 

ever thinks of a spore -cloud from a 
Spore-cloud mus hroom or a toadstool? Yet the 
mushrooms method of the Puff-ball is followed by 

all the other fungi, with only less con- 
spicuousness. The Puff-ball gives a visible salute, 
but any one of the common mushrooms or toadstools 
will afford us a much prettier and more surprising 
account of itself if we but give it the opportunity. 
This big yellow toadstool out under the poplar-tree 
 its golden cap studded with brownish scurfy warts, 
its under surface beset with closely plaited lamina? or 
gills  who could ever associate the cloud of dry 
smoke with this moist, creamy- white surface? We 
may sit here all day and watch it closely, but we shall 
see no sign of anything resembling smoke or dust, 
albeit a filmy emanation is continually eluding us,. 



2&> EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

floating away from beneath its golden cap, the eager 
breeze taking such jealous care of the continual 
shower that our eyes fail to perceive a hint of it 
* Do you doubt it ? You need wait but a few mo- 
ments for a visible demonstration of the fact in a 
pretty experiment, which, when once observed, will 
certainly be resorted to as a frequent pastime in lei- 
sure moments when the toadstool or 
Cwtr W-g mushroom is available. 
the spores Here is a very ordinary-looking spec- 
imen growing beside the stone steps 
at our back door perhaps. Its top is gray, its gills 
beneath are fawn -colored. We may shake it as 
rudely as we will, and yet we shall get no response 
such as the Puff-ball will give us. But let us lay 
it upon a piece of white paper, gills downward, on 
the mantel, and cover it with a tumbler or finger- 
bowl, so as to absolutely exclude the least admission 
of air. At the expiration of five minutes, perhaps, 
we may detect a filmy pinkish -yellow tint on the 
paper, following beneath the upraised border of the 

cap, like a shadow faintly lined with 

a white. In a quarter of an hour the 

spore-portrait tinted deposit is perceptible across the 

room, and in an hour, if we carefully 
raise the mushroom, the perfect spore-print is revealed 
in all its beauty  a spore -tint portrait of the un- 
der surface of the mushroom  a pink -brown disk 
with a white centre, which indicates the point of con- 
tact of the cut stem, and white radiating lines, rep- 
resenting the edges of the thin gills, many of them 
as fine and delicate as a cobweb. 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 



28l 



Every fresh species experimented with will yield 
its surprise in the markings and color of the prints. 

These spore -deposits are, of course, fugitive, and 
will easily rub off at the slightest touch. But inas- 




much as many of these specimens, either from their 
beauty of form or exquisite color, or for educational 
or scientific purposes, it will be desirable to preserve, 
I append simple rules for the making and " fixing " 
of the prints by a process which was original with 






282 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the writer, and which he has found most effective 
for their preservation. 

Take a piece of smooth white writing-paper and 
coat its surface evenly with a thin solution of gum- 
arabic, dextrine, or other mucilage, and 
^JfJ^L allow it to dry. Pin this, gummed side 
spore-print* uppermost, to a board or table, prefer- 
ably over a soft cloth, so that it will lie 
perfectly flat. To insure a good print the mushroom 
specimen should be fresh and firm, and the gills or 
spore-surface free from breaks or bruises. Cut the 
stem off about level with the gills, lay the mushroom, 
spore -surface downward, upon the paper, and cover 
with a tumbler, finger-bowl, or other vessel with a 
smooth, even rim, to absolutely exclude the slightest 
ingress of air. After a few hours, perhaps even 
less, the spores will be seen through the glass on 
the paper at the extreme edge of the mushroom, their 
depth of color indicating the density of the deposit. 
If we now gently lift the glass, and with the utmost 
care remove the fungus, perhaps by the aid of pins 
previously inserted, in a perfectly vertical direction, 
without the slightest side motion, the spore-print in 
all its beauty is revealed  perhaps a rich brown cir- 
cular patch with exquisite radiating 
Various colors white lines, marking the direction and 
of spores edges of the gills, if an Agaric; perhaps 

a delicate pink, more or less clouded 
disk, here and there distinctly and finely honey-comb- 
ed with white lines, indicating that our specimen is 
one of the polypores, as a Boletus. Other prints will 
yield rich golden disks, and there will be prints of 




Plate XXX' 



Plat XXXV.-SP0R-5URFAl.K OF AN AGARIC 



f ! i 



i' 



P 



i |k 



ir 



I 

I 

;i 




it i 





Plati XXXVI -SPORE-SLRFACK UK PUI.VI'i iKl.'S i.BOLI-:rtfS) 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 287 

varying red, lilac, green, orange, salmon -pink, and 
brown and purple, variously lined in accordance with 
the nature of their respective parent gills or pores. 

Occasionally we shall look in vain for our print, 
which may signify that our specimen had already 
scattered its spores ere we had found it, or, what is 

more likely, that the spores are invisi- 
lnvisible ble upon the paper, owing to their white- 
prints ness, in which case black or colored 

paper must be substituted for the white 
ground, when the spores will be beautifully manifest 
in a white tracery upon the darker background. One 
of these, from the Amanita muscartus, is reproduced 
in Plate 37. If the specimen is left too long, the 
spore-deposit is continued upward between the gills, 
and may reach a quarter of an inch in height, in 
which case, if extreme care in lifting the cap is used, 
we observe a very realistic counterfeit of the gills of 
the mushroom in high relief upon the paper. A 
print of this kind is of course very fragile, and must 
be handled with care. But a comparatively slight 
deposit of the spores, without apparent thickness, will 
give us the most perfect print, while at the same 

time yielding the full color. Such a 

Fixing print may also be fixed by our present 

the print method so as to withstand considerable 

rough usage, by laying the paper upon 
a wet towel until the moisture has penetrated through 
and reached the gum. The spores are thus set, and, 
upon drying the paper, are securely fixed. Indeed, 
the moisture exuded by the confined fungus beneath 
the glass is often sufficient to set the spores. 



288 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A number of prints may be obtained successively 
from a single specimen gathered at its fruitful prime. 

To those of my readers interested in the science of 
this spore -shower I give illustrations of examples of 
the two more common groups of mushrooms  die 
Agaric, or gilled mushroom, and the Polyporus, or 

tube -bearing mushroom. The entire 

Agaric* surface of both gills and pores is lined 

and Poly pores with the spore -bearing membrane or 

hymenium, the spores being produced 
in fours from each of the crowded spirophores, and, 
where all air is absolutely excluded, permitting them 
to fall directly beneath their point of departure as 
indicated; in the case of the Agaric, in radiating 
lines in correspondence with the spaces between the 
gills ; and in Polyporus, directly beneath the opening 
of each pore, whose inner surface is lined with the 
sporophores, as shown in Plate 36. 

This dust-shower is continuous in nature after the 
perfect ripening of the spores, but it is almost impos- 
sible to conceive of such an entire absence of moving 
air under natural conditions as to permit even a 
visible hint of the spore-shower to appear beneath its 
respective fungus. An exception to this rule is 

sometimes to be seen in fungi of mass- 

Spore-mist ec j g row th  as, for example, beneath 

Agaric such a cluster as that shown on page 
147. Indeed, a correspondent recently 
described such a cluster as "enveloped in a mist of its 
own spores floating away in the apparently still air." 

In Plate 38 is shown a spore-print with a peculiar 
elongated tail. Such was the specimen which I ob- 



 w 



: 



 t 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 



29$ 



served when lifting the pasteboard box which had 
been placed above the mushroom to absolutely ex- 
clude the air. The explanation was simple when I 
discerned that the tapering elongation pointed direct- 
ly to a tiny hole in the box barely 
Affected larger than a knitting-needle. 

by a pin-hole jjL  , ,  , 

draft 1 he greatest portion of the myriads- 

of spores are wafted to the ends of the 
earth, and form an important element in the so-call- 
ed "dust" so unwelcome to the tidy housewife. A 




sticky glass slide exposed to the deposit of such dust, 
and placed beneath the microscope, will reveal many 
fungus spores. The air is full of them. 



294 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A few of the various characteristic forms of these 
fungus-spores is shown on a previous page, somewhat 
as a powerful microscope would reveal them to us. 

But it is only as they chance to alight individually 
in congenial conditions for growth that they will con- 
sent to vegetate. Thus billions of them are doomed 
to perish without progeny. These whims of habitat 

among the fungi are almost past belief. 

Whims Here, for* instance, is a tiny Puff-ball 

of habitat hardly larger than the period on this 

page. It bursts at the summit, and 
sheds its puff of microscopic spores, so light as to 
be without gravity, floating and settling everywhere 
upon the earth, but only as they chance to alight 
upon the spines of a dead chestnut -burr of two years* 
decay will they find heart to grow. Such is the 
fastidiousness of the little white mushroom, whose 
globular caps dot the spines of the decaying chest- 
nut-burrs in so many damp nooks in the woods. 

In closing my chapter a glance at the further ec- 
centricities of choice will not be inopportune. I ap- 
pend a few taken at random from the 
Curious pages of Berkeley, which lie open be- 
fastidiousness f ore me. In addition to the general 

broad distinctions of habitat as " woods," 
" rotten wood," " old pastures," u dunghills," we find 
such fastidious selections as the following, each by a 
distinct species with its own individual whim : " Dead 
fir-cones, sawdust, beechnuts, plaster walls, old fer- 
menting coffee-grounds, wheat ears, cinders, dead oak 
leaves, old linen, wheat bread, hoofs, feathers, decayed 
rope, fat, microscopic lenses, and damp carpets." 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 295 

A complete list of these exclusive habitats of fungi 
would well fill a large book, and might indeed almost 
involve the " index " of our botanies and zoologies, 
to say nothing of organic substances generally. 

Plants, both living and dead, are favorite habitats 
for various species. The old stems of the common 
European nettle, according to Cooke, becomes the 
host of about thirty distinct species of the minute 
fungi. The toadstool itself is often the victim of 
other minor species. Insects are a frequent prey. 
The wasp succumbs to its special fungus parasite, 
which has formed a home within its body, and the 

common house-fly is seen in the toils 

House-fly. of its similar enemy, as it hangs help- 
fungus less by its proboscis upon the window- 
pane, enveloped in the winding-sheet 
of white mould from the fungus which has done its 
work within the insect's body. Spiders, locusts, 
ants, cicadse, and presumably all insects, are subject 
to similar fate from their especial parasitic fungi. 
The fungus thus often comes to the rescue of afflicted 
humanity in regulating the undue increase of insect 
pests. Here is a pretty, slender, orange, pointed mush- 
room growing in the moss. We pluck it from its 
bed, and it brings to the surface a chrysalis, with the 
dead moth distinctly seen within the cavity from 
which its roots spring. When we next come upon 
this species in the moss, we may confidently predict 
the discovery of this same species of chrysalis. 

A similar long, slender fungus springs from the 
head of a caterpillar in New Zealand, and at length 
almost absorbs the insect's body. A similar species 



296 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

upon another caterpillar is carefully collected and 
desiccated by the Chinese, with whom it forms an im- 
portant article in their native pharma- 
^^j! copceia, and, moreover, it seems, may be 
fungi perhaps appropriately included among 
the " edibles," for are we not assured by 
these expert and indiscriminate epicures of the chop- 
sticks that this species "makes an excellent dressing 
for roast duck." 




WMi 







Concerning: *< Mushromes and Tadstoles" 




NI"> now for that our fine 
mouthed and daintie wantons 
vho set such store by their 
tooth ; take so great delight 
to dress this only dish with 
their own hands, that they 
may feed thereon in conceit and cogi- 
tation all the while they be handling 
and preparing the same, furnished in 
this their businesse with their fine 
knives and razors of amber and other 
vessels of silver about them. 

 I for my part also am content to 

frame and accomodate myself to their 

humourous fancie and will shew unto 

them in generall certaine observa- 

is and rules how to order and use them 

t they may be eaten with securitie. " 

Plinius Secundus. 





HE earnest plea of Or. ISadham for 
this neglected  rather, 1 may say, 
spurned  spontaneous harvest of 
fungi is well worth emphasizing in our pages; afford- 
ing, as it does, a most suggestive commentary on the 
universal popular ignorance, so far as America is con- 
cerned, of the economic value of this perennial of- 
fering of Nature, which abounds in such luxuriance 
throughout our continent. 

" 1 have this autumn myself," he writes, " witnessed 
whole hundred-weights of rich, wholesome diet rot- 
ting under trees; woods teeming with 
The spurned food, and not one hand to gather it ; 
harvest and this, perhaps, in the midst of a po- 
tato - blight, poverty, and all manner 
of privations, and public prayers against imminent 
famine. 

" I have, indeed, grieved, when f have reflected on 
the straitened condition of the lower classes this year, 
to see pounds innumerable of extempore beefsteaks 
growing on our oaks in the shape of Fistulina hepat- 
tea; Agaricus fusipes, to pickle, in clusters under 
them ; Puff-balls, which some of our friends have not 



300 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

inaptly compared to sweetbreads for delicacy of their 
unassisted flavor ; Hydna, as good as oysters, which 

they somewhat resemble in taste ; Agar- 

compressive ieus deliciosus, reminding us of tender 

fungus lamb kidneys; the beautiful yellow 

Chantarelle, that kalon kaigotkon oidiet, 

growing by the bushel, and no basket but our own 

to pick up a few specimens on our way ; the sweet, 

nutty-flavored Boletus, in vain calling himself * edulis ' 

where there was none to believe him; the dainty 

Orcella; the Agaricus heterophyllus, which tastes like 

a crawfish when grilled; the Agaricus ruber, and 

Agaricus virescens % to cook in any way and equally 

good in all  these are the most conspicuous of the 

trouvailles." 

His remarks applied to Great Britain, and reflected 
a popular disdain of fungi, which presented a marked 

contrast to the appreciation of the 
a reliable mushroom of the Continent, where the 
cop fungus had become the much -sought 

bonne bouche of the epicure, and the wel- 
come reliance of the peasant poor, to whom it afforded 
a perfect substitute for the desideratum of animal 
food commonly denied them by their circumstances. 

This plea of Dr. Badham's is even more pointedly 
pertinent to the America of the present than it was 

for his own country at the time ; for 

The fungus while, in Great Britain, the mycophagist 

specialist epicure was even then occasionally to 

be met with, in America to-day this par- 
ticular gastronomic specialist is locally conspicuous, or 
rather notorious, from his very rarity, being popularly 



RECIPES 30I 

considered as a sort of dangerous crank, who should 
be conservatively muzzled by the authorities, for the 
safety of himself as well as the public. 

In the absence of any adequate popular guide to 
this great food resource, it may be hoped that this 

present work may afford not merely an 

Mycophagist occasional dainty entree to the menu 

missionaries Q f the luxurious epicure, but  a far 

more important consideration  a means 
of bringing the fungus within reach of the less-favored 
masses as a never-failing dependence for their daily 
food. 

Dr. Badham's further pertinent remarks are worth 
quoting, in this connection, with emphasis : " As 
soon as the reader is initiated in this class of dain- 
ties he will, I am persuaded, lose no time in making 
the discovery known to the poor of his neighbor- 
hood; while in so doing he will render an important 
service to the country at large, by instructing the in- 
digent and ignorant in the choice of an ample, whole- 
some, and excellent article, which they may convert 
into money or consume at their own tables, when 
properly prepared, throughout the winter/ 1 

Concerning the lavish plenitude of the fungus as 
a food resource, a passage from a letter of the late Dr. 
Curtis, of North Carolina, to the Rev. J. M. Berke- 
ley, of England, many years ago, is 

A suggestive most significant: "Of this latter qual- 

statement ity I had become so well convinced 

that, during our late war, I sometimes 
averred  and I doubt if there was much, if any, exag- 
geration in the assertion  that in some parts of 



302 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the country I could maintain a regiment of soldiers 
five months in the year upon mushrooms alone." A 
statement which doubtless will appear extravagant to 
those who have been accustomed to consider the one 
common "mushroom" as the only esculent among 
the fungi. 

As already mentioned previously in my pages, the 
fungus affords a perfect substitute, chemically and 

gastronomically, for animal food. The 

Nutritious analysis of its substance is almost iden- 

propertie* tical with that of meat, being especially 

rich in nitrogenous elements, while its 
flavor and aroma and texture, as served for the table, 
occasionally so closely imitate that of flesh food as 
to be actually deceptive. Even in its raw state it 
would occasionally seem to suggest the same animal 
similarity. As an illustration, I recall the following 
striking instance of gastronomic discrimination in a 
carnivorous appetite, as exemplified in a full-grown 
pet hawk which I had tethered near my country 
studio. 

One day, returning from a toadstool hunt, she ob- 
served me approaching with a basketful of mush- 
rooms. They were mostly of the fleshy 

, , * , Boleti species. Supposing that I was 

discriminating . . l \ i i 

hawk bringing her tood, she became very de- 

monstrative in her actions, eying me 
most eagerly, and uttering that peculiar low squeal 
which seemed to emanate from the region of her 
appetite. As she approached me, thinking to satisfy 
her that the basket contained nothing suitable for 
hawk-food, I tossed her one of the largest of the 



RECIPES 303 

mushrooms, which she almost caught in mid-air in 
her talons. Such was the strength of her clutch that 
the fungus was scattered in fragments upon the 
ground, when what was my surprise to observe the 
bird proceed from one fragment to another in a most 
ravenous manner, exhibiting all those tactics habitual 
to the hawk with live prey  the lowering and out- 
spreading of the wings and tail against the ground, 
the raising of the neck feathers, and the same de- 
fiant, defensive mien which she had so often shown 
on previous occasions when a mouse or a squirrel 
had been the object of her solicitude. Having eaten 
the first fungus, I threw her another, which she de- 
voured with the same eagerness, and another, and 
another, until she had taken five, and her crop was 
as large as a pint cup; after which she betook her- 
self quietly to her roost on the rail near by, evidently 
under the supposition that she had broken her fast 
with a sumptuous meal of rabbit or squirrel flesh. 

The Agaricus ostreatus is known as the " vegetable 
oyster''  its flavor in a stew quite closely simulating 

the flavor of the bivalve ; another fun- 
Fish, flesh, gus as the " beefsteak mushroom "  not 
and fowl without good reason ; the Polyporus 

sulphurous distinctly suggests the flesh 
and flavor of chicken ; others, as we have seen, re- 
semble kidneys and sweetbread; while the Agaricus 
ulmarius of the elm would seem entitled to its popu- 
lar name of " fish-mushroom," from the following inci- 
dent related by Palmer: 

" I recently sent some elm - tree mushrooms to a 
family where the youngest member is but twenty-one 



304 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

months of age/ At breakfast-time she noticed the 
strange dish, and her father gave her a small piece. 
' More fish ! more fish !' was the instant response." 

Indeed, the vegetarian may humor his humane 
whim, and still enjoy fish, flesh, and fowl at his table 

without a qualm of conscience in a 

a boon to menu which, in aroma, quality, and fla- 
thc vegetarian VO r f might well deceive his unconverted 

omnivorous brother, only at last to win 
his encomium to the glory of the multum in parvo 
fungus. The possibilities in this direction are sug- 
gested in my appended hints for a menu for the 
vegetarian. 

In my previous pages I have made occasional refer- 
ence to the more simple methods of preparation of 
certain species of fungi for the table, but have re- 
served extended reference to culinary treatment for 
the present chapter. 

For the benefit of those of my readers who may 
desire to " humour their delicate fancie " to the full, 

with the result of a more or less corn- 
Fungi in plete disguise of the characteristic 

the kitchen mushroom flavor through the arts which 

are supposed to "assist nature," I ap- 
pend a selected list of favorite recipes for such al- 
leged appetizing sophistication of the mushroom. 
Many of them will be found equally applicable to 
other species than that for which they are nominally 
recommended, especially if such species should pos- 
sess the same general character as to consistency. 

The author confesses that he is not in thorough 
sympathy with the general trend of these ingeniously 



RECIPES 305 

contrived lures to dyspepsia, whose contemplation 
may well awaken a sympathetic appreciation of that 
antique philosophic epigram, " There are as many 
diseases as cooks "  the discriminating impeachment 
of Seneca regarding the " chef a la mode" 

But doubtless the author will be overwhelmingly 
overruled in his hypercriticisms, and will remain one 

of a select discriminating minority in 

Dc gustibus con tinued genuine enjoyment of his 

non est  J J . 

disputandum mushrooms, while the majority of his 

proselytes to mycophagy will in vain 
endeavor to detect the mushroom flavor in the oblit- 
erating disguise concocted in the kitchen or insti- 
gated by the mischievous u receipt -book. " 

Indeed, the prominence of the spice, clove, nut- 
meg, thyme, tarragon, and pepper ingredient in most 
of these "favorite recipes," to say nothing of the 
champagne, onion, garlic, lemon-juice, cayenne, an- 
chovy, etc., with which the delicately flavored mush- 
rooms are so generally sophisticated in these culi- 
nary preparations, would seem to warrant our scep- 
ticism as to the value of the epicurean testimony 
as to the " superior flavor," of the various " Cham- 
pignons," " Chantarelles," etc., so confidently recom- 
mended. The juice of a lemon, or oil of lemon-peel, 
will absolutely annihilate the peculiar characteristic 
"fungus" flavor of the average mushroom. The true 
mushroom epicure, it would seem, should value his 
mousseron not as an absorbent vehicle for the gas- 
tronomic conveyance of highly seasoned sauce or 
dressing, but for the unique individual flavor which 
differentiates the fungus from other kinds of food. 



306 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But we are all allowed to differ in matters of taste, 
and each must decide for himself or herself what par- 
ticular disguise is most palatable. 

The recipes which follow are from various sources, 
most of them modifications based upon the earlier 
epicurean devices of Mrs. Hussey and Dr. Badham, the 
pioneers of English mycophagy, and of Roques, Per- 
soon, Paulet, Cordier, and other noted European au- 
thorities. I am indebted, also, to the works of M. C. 
Cook, Worthington Smith, W. Robinson, and J. A. 
Palmer for occasional selections from their recom- 
mended recipes. 

RECIPES FOR MUSHROOM COOKING 

In all cases the mushroom should be fresh, clear 
and free from the insect indications mentioned on 
page 131. Some epicures recommend that the speci- 
mens be also washed in cold acidulated water and 
dried in a cloth ; for what reason is not clear, unless 
the mushrooms are sufficiently dirty to require such 
cleansing process. 

1 Mushroom Soup 

" Take a good quantity of mushrooms, cut off the 
earthy ends and wash them ; stew them, with some 
butter, pepper, and salt, in a little good stock until 
tender ; take them out and chop them up until quite 
small ; prepare a good stock as for any other soup, 
and add it to the mushrooms and the liquor they have 
been stewed in. Boil all together and serve. If white 



RECIPES 307 

soup be desired, use the white button-mushrooms and 
a good veal stock, adding a spoonful of cream or a 
little milk, as the color may require/'  IV. Smith. 

Other mushrooms may be substituted for the ordi- 
nary Campestris above mentioned. A very good 
mock oyster soup may be prepared from the mush- 
rooms Hydnum and the Agaricus ostreatus. 

2 Pure of Mushrooms 

" To make a puree of mushrooms, select such as are 
of a globular shape, called 4 button-mushrooms ;' wash 
them in cold water and wipe them dry ; chop them as 
fine as possible and press them in a cloth ; put them 
in a stewpan with a little butter and pepper; let 
them stand over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in lemon-juice and add jelly broth, ac- 
cording to the quantity of the mushrooms. Stew 
until reduced to the consistency of pea-soup, and 
serve with meat, fish, or poached egg."  Cooke. 

3 Mushroom Stew 

Put about two ounces of butter into a stewpan ; 
when thoroughly melted add a teaspoonful of salt, 
and from a quarter to half the quantity of black pep- 
per, according to taste, and a small bit of mace or a 
pinch of powdered nutmeg. Having a pint of the 
mushrooms in readiness, put them in the pan, cover 
closely, and stew them till they are tender, which will 
probably require from twenty minutes to half an 
hour. The addition of flour stirred in cream or 
milk, by which the stew is thickened, is by some 
considered a desirable addition. This recipe is given 



308 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with special reference to the Campestris, but will be 
found suitable for other mushrooms of the same con- 
sistency. 

4 Broiled Mushrooms on Toast 

Remove the stems, and place the mushrooms in 
a double wire broiler over the coals, with the gill sides 
down, for about two minutes, or even less if the speci- 
mens are small. The broiler should then be turned, 
and the cooking should proceed for two minutes more; 
towards the end of that time the juicy gills should 
be sprinkled with salt and pepper, a small piece of 
butter being finally melted in each as they are served 
on the hot toast. By this simple method all the 
natural juices of the mushroom are retained and the 
true aroma and flavor is conserved. Bacon toasted 
over the mushrooms is considered by some to im- 
prove the flavor. 

5 Mushrooms a la Provencal 

Take mushrooms of good size, remove the stems 
and cut their tops in halves or quarters, which, with 
the chopped stems, should then be immersed in olive 
oil, spiced with salt, pepper, and a piece of garlic, for 
about two hours. They should then be put into a 
stewpan with oil and cooked over a brisk fire. A 
variation of this method includes the addition of 
chopped meat and the yolks of two eggs, the whole 
being slightly browned in the oven before serving. 

6 Mushrooms a la Creme 

44 Trim and rub half a pint of button-mushrooms; 
dissolve two ounces of butter rolled in flour in a stew- 



RECIPES 309 

pan; then put in the mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, 
a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful each of white 
pepper and powdered sugar; shake the pan around 
for ten minutes, then beat up the yolks of two eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and add by degrees 
to the mushrooms. In two or three minutes you can 
serve them in the sauce."  Worthington Smith. 

7 Mushroom Ragout 

" Put into a stewpan a little stock, a small quantity 
of vinegar, parsley and green onions chopped up, 
salt, and spices. When this is about to boil, the 
mushrooms being cleaned, put them in. When done 
remove them from the fire and thicken with yolks of 
eggs."  Worthington Smith. Another recommends 
that the stew should be poured upon toast, or upon 
crusts of bread previously fried in butter. 

8 Stewed Hush rooms on Toast. 

Put a pint of mushrooms into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of butter rolled in flour, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a blade of 
powdered mace, and half a teaspoonful of grated lem- 
on ; stew until the butter is all absorbed, then serve 
on hot toast as soon as the mushrooms are tender. 

9 Champignon 

" Cut in small pieces and seasoned it makes an ex- 
cellent addition to stews, hashes, or fried meats ; but 
it should be added only a few minutes before serving, 
as the aroma is dissipated by over-cooking. It is the 
mushroom used in the French a la mode beef-shops 



 



310 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

in London."  Badham. They may be cooked in any 
-of the methods employed for the ordinary mushroom 
already noted. 

10 Chanterelle Stew 

This mushroom, being of rather tough consistency, 
requires long and slow cooking. 

" Cut the mushrooms across and remove the stems ; 
put them into a closely covered saucepan with a little 
fresh butter, and sweat them until tender at the low- 
est possible temperature. A great heat always de- 
stroys the flavor."  Mrs. Hussey. 

ii Hydnum Stew 

Roques, the French mycologist, says of the Hyd- 
num repandum ; " The general use of this fungus 
throughout France, Italy, and Germany leaves no 
room for doubt as to its good qualities." But very 
little has been said of its companion species, the H. 
caput-medusie, described in the foregoing pages, and 
which is certainly greatly its superior in texture and 
flavor. Dr. Harkness considers it one of the most 
delicious morsels among the whole fungus tribe. 

Both species, containing naturally less moisture 
than most mushrooms, are easily dried. When fresh 
they should be soaked in water and cooked slowly 
at low temperature and frequently basted, the dried 
specimens being first soaked in tepid water until their 
original form and pulpy consistency are nearly re- 
gained. 

In a puree the Hydnum makes an appetizing dish, 
with a slight flavor of oysters. 



recipes 31 r 

Roques recommends the following recipe for a 
stew: "Cut the mushrooms into pieces and let them 
steep in warm water for twenty minutes. Then al- 
low them to simmer for an hour in a pan with butter, 
pepper, salt, and parsley, with the addition of beef or 
other gravy." 

Mrs. Hussev recommends stewine in brown or 
white sauce ; in the latter case it will closely suggest 
" oyster sauce." 

Another mushroom - the Lactarius deliciosus  
stewed in a similar manner closely suggests the 
flavor of lambs' kidneys. 

12 Roast Mushrooms 

Mr. Palmer recommends the following: u Cut the 
larger specimens into fine pieces and place them in a 
small dish, with salt, butter, and pepper to taste ; put 
in about two tablespoonfuls of water, then fill the dish 
with the half-open specimens and the buttons ; cover 
tightly and place in the oven, which must not be 
overheated, for about ten minutes. The juice of the 
larger mushrooms will keep them moist, and, if fresh,, 
yield a most abundant gravy." 

13 Baked Russula 

See that the mushrooms are free from dirt and grit 
on tops and stems, or rinse in cold water, afterwards 
wiping them dry and shaking off the water from the 
gills; make a mince of the stems, bread -crumbs, 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little butter or oil ; 
pile this upon the gills; place the mushrooms in a 
shallow dish in a hot oven and baste them frequently 



312 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with the melted butter or oil. In about fifteen minutes 
they will be ready to serve. 

The Oyster Mushroom or its congener, the Agar- 
icus ulmariusy might both be treated by this method, 
the oyster or fish -like flavor of these species thus 
affording a distinct second course for our menu. 
Either of these Pleurotus species may also be treated 
so as to closely suggest an escalop of oyster or fish. 

14 Baked Procerus 

Remove the stems; do not rinse the mushrooms 
unless they are soiled, and this species is usually con* 
spicuously clean ; put some slices of toast in a well- 
buttered pie-dish, and, with a little melted butter or 
cream poured over them, lay in the mushrooms; 
sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of 
minced parsley which has previously been rubbed 
with onion or garlic ; cover the dish with a plate 
and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes and serve 
in the dish. The aroma is thus conserved, and, upon 
being released at the table, will prove a most savory 
appetizer. 

15 Cottagers' Procerus Pie 

The following appetizing recipe is recommended 
by Robinson : " Cut fresh Agarics in small pieces, 
cover the bottom of a pie-dish with small, thin slices 
of bacon, and place the mushroom fragments upon 
them, with the addition of salt and pepper; upon 
this place a layer of mashed potatoes, following again 
with other similar layers of bacon, mushrooms, and 
potatoes, until the dish is filled, the last layer of 



RECIPES 313 

potato answering for a crust; bake in the oven for 
half an hour, and brown before a brisk fire." 

Doubtless many other species of mushroom would 
lend themselves equally well to this particular treat- 
ment. 

16 Baked Gambosus 

" Place some fresh -made toast, nicely divided, on a 
dish, and put the Agarics upon it ; pepper, salt, and 
put a small piece of butter on each; then pour on 
each one a tablespoonful of milk or cream, and add a 
single clove to the whole dish ; place a bell  glass or 
inverted basin over the whole ; bake twenty minutes, 
and serve up without removing the glass until it comes 
to the table, so as to preserve the heat and aroma, 
which, on lifting the cover, will be diffused through 
the room."  Cooke. "A great quantity of gravy 
comes out of it, mingled, in the case of a good 
specimen, with osmazome, which tastes very much 
like the similar brown exudation on the surface of a 
roast leg of mutton."  Robinson. 

17 Fried Mushrooms on Toast 

Place a pint of mushrooms in a pan, with a piece 
of butter about the size of an egg ; sprinkle in a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper; 
when the butter is nearly absorbed, thicken with 
fresh butter and flour and pour upon hot toast, which 
should be served hot. 

18 riushrooms with Bacon 

Fry a few rashers of nice streaky bacon in the 
pan in the usual manner; when nearly done add a 



314 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

dozen or so of mushrooms, and fry them slowly until 
they are cooked. In this process they will absorb 
all the fat of the bacon, and, with the addition of a 
little salt and pepper, will form a most appetizing 
breakfast relish. 

19 Mushrooms en Caissc 

 

The following is recommended as a dainty by 

Worthington Smith : " Peel the mushrooms lightly 
and cut them into pieces ; put them into cases of 
buttered paper, with a bit of butter, parsley, green 
onions, and shallots chopped up; salt and pepper; 
dress them on a gridiron over a gentle fire and serve 
in the cases." The cases might be made of pastry. 

20 Hungarian Soup of Boleti 

" Dry the Boleti in the oven ; soak the mushrooms 

in tepid water, thickening with toasted bread till the 

whole be of the consistency of a puree ; then rub 

through a sieve, throw in some stewed boleti, boil 

together, and serve with the usual condiments."  

Pan let. 

21 Boletus Fritters 

Persoon recommends this method of treatment of 
the Boletus as very appetizing: The fritters may be 
prepared in the method ordinarily adopted, the slices 
of the mushroom being dipped in batter and brown- 
ed either in the frying-pan or in the hot fat, after the 
manner of the doughnut. 

22 Beefsteak Mushroom 

This species is claimed to resemble meat in flavor 



RECIPES 315 

more than any other fungus. The gravy, in quality 
and color, would certainly deceive a most discrimi- 
nating palate. Like many of the Polyporei, it is com- 
paratively slow in maturing, occasionally, it is said, 
requiring two weeks ere it reaches its prime, when it 
may acquire a large size. 

It should be gathered before its maturity to insure 
tenderness, though the older, tougher individuals, cut 
in pieces and cooked separately, will yield a quantity 
of rich red gravy, to be added to the dish of more 
tender specimens. " If it is not beef itself," says Mrs. 
Hussey, " it is sauce for it." " If sliced and grilled it 
would pass for a good beefsteak," says Cooke, with 
truth. Mrs. Hussey recommends that it should be 
sliced and macerated in salt, the deep- red liquor 
which exudes should be put hot into a dish with a 
little lemon-juice and minced shallots, and a broiled 
steak deposited in it. It may also be variously 
stewed or fricasseed with excellent results, and af- 
fords a delicious soup with savor closely suggesting 
beef broth or consomme c/air. A " beef-steak " pie 
made on the foregoing recipe prescribed for the 
Procerus would doubtless prove a most appetizing 

entree. 

23 The Oyster Mushroom 

u It may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, 
and is equally good in all," says a distinguished con- 
noisseur  in soups, stewed, broiled, curried, baked, 
in the form of an escalop, patties, or vol-au-vent, or 
fried with butter in the form of fritters. In all cases 
where the fungus itself is to be eaten, the specimens 
should be young and tender, the older individuals, 
17 




EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

if free from insects, might be used for soups. See 
Recipe 13. 

14 Polyporus Stew 

The beautiful sulphur-colored Polyporus described 
in my previous pages when stewed closely suggests 
the tender white meat of chicken or veal, and might 
lend itself to various deceptive dishes, as, for instance, 
soups, croquettes, fricassees, or patties. 

Only the tender young plant should be employed, 
and a little experience will suggest various appetizing 
methods of treatment 

25 Ragout of Morels or Helvetia 
The following is an old-time recipe of Persoon: 
" Pick and clean your fungi and cut them in two ; 
wash and dry them well by wiping ; then put them in 
a pan with butter, or a piece of ham or bacon; 
place them over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in a little lemon-juice, give a few turns, 
and then add salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; 
cook slowly for an hour, pouring on at intervals small 
quantities of beef gravy or jelly broth to prevent burn- 
ing; when done, thicken with yolks of eggs." The 
lemon-juice is omitted by many, who consider it a pos- 
itively unpalatable as well as unwholesome ingredient. 

26 Stuffed Morels 

Dr. Badham's work contains the following recipes 
from Persoon, which, from the peculiar construction 
of the fungus, affords a contrast to ordinary methods: 
"Choose the freshest and whitest Morels; open the 



RECIPES 317 

stalk at the bottom ; wash and wipe them well ; fill 
with veal stuffing, anchovy, or any rich farce you 
choose, securing the ends and dressing between 
slices of bacon. Serve with a sauce." 

27 Morel les a la Italienne 

Here is another skilful compound from the same 
source: "Having washed and dried the mushrooms, 
divide them across ; put them on the fire with some 
parsley, scallion, chervil, burnet, tarragon, cives, a 
little salt, and two spoonfuls of fine oil ; stew until 
the juice runs out, then thicken with a little flour. 
Serve with bread-crumbs and a squeeze of lemon." 

28 Clavaria Stew 

Badham gives the following recipe for the Clavaria, 
or coral fungus: "After sousing in tepid water and 
wiping perfectly clean, the fungus should be 'sweat- 
ed ' over a slow fire, afterwards to be strained and the 
liquor thrown away; stew for an hour; add salt, pep- 
per, cloves, and parsley to taste, masking with plain 
stock and dredging occasionally with flour. Thicken 
with yolks of eggs and cream. 1 ' 

29 Fried Clavaria 

The simple process of browning in butter or oil in 
the frying-pan, with the addition of pepper and salt, 
and serving hot on buttered toast or with fried eggs, 
will be found a most palatable method of treating 
this fungus. For those who are willing to sacrifice 
the characteristic fungus flavor to a savor more pro- 
nounced, the Clavaria is also said to be delicious 



318 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

when fried with onions or with curry in the usual 
method. 

30 Puff-ball 
Fritters, Omelettes, Sweetbreads, and Soufftf 

As already described, the Puff-balls in their white- 
pulp condition are esculent and afford a delicate rel- 
ish. The species Giganteus sometimes attains a 
diameter of nearly two feet, and where such a speci- 
men or even much smaller ones are situated at an 
easily available distance, we may profit by the hint 
of Vitadini, the Italian mycologist : " Cut off a slice 
at a time, cutting it horizontally, and using great care 
not to disturb its growth, to prevent decay, and thus 
one may have a fritter every day for a week." Dr. 
Curtis calls this species the "Southdown of mush- 
rooms.' 9 His opinion of its merits as food will be 
shared by others who give it a trial : " It has a deli- 
cacy of flavor that makes it superior to any omelette 
I have ever eaten. It seems, furthermore, to be so 
digestible as to adapt itself to the most delicate stom- 
ach." Mrs. Hussey, the pioneer English authority, 
recommends the following recipe : " First remove the 
outer skin; cut in slices half an inch thick; have 
ready some chopped herbs, pepper, and salt ; dip the 
slices in the yolk of egg, and sprinkle the herbs upon 
them ; fry in fresh butter and eat immediately." 

The extreme tenderness and delicacy of the Puff- 
ball thus cooked resembles a souffle, and suggests 
many possibilities of appetizing variations and com- 
binations, as, for example, with jelly, in the form of 
an entremet or dessert. By many the flavor of the 
Puff-ball has been compared to "sweetbread," and 



RECIPES 319 

doubtless so cooked and served would afford an 
agreeable variation in the menu. Indeed, it may be 
prepared in a variety of ways, as suggested for other 
species, but from its peculiar consistency is particu- 
larly adapted to frying in the pan. With chopped 
ham or thinly sliced smoked beef it might furnish a 
good substitute for the ham-omelette or frizzled beef. 
Another addition to our entremets might be availed 
of in the "jelly mushroom," Hydnum, or Tremelodon 
gelatinostim, which is not described in this volume. 
It is eaten raw, either plain or with milk and sugar, 
and is said to be of most delicate flavor. 

31 riushroom Salad 

According to Cooke, the Beefsteak mushroom 
before mentioned is employed as an entremet in Vien- 
na, the fresh fungus being cut in thin slices and eat- 
en as a salad. The fresh, crisp young Russula mush- 
rooms thus served also furnish a very appetizing 
relish, with the usual varieties of dressing as in the 
various sauces, mayonnaise, French dressing, etc. 
The Polyportis sttlphureus having been boiled and 
allowed to cool might furnish a deceptive " chicken " 
salad. Doubtless other species of mushrooms  Cla- 
varia, for example  would lend themselves acceptably 
to this method of serving. Cordier recommends this 
latter species as " appetizing even when raw." 

32 Pickled riushrooms 

Select the mushrooms in the round-button condi- 
tion and before expansion ; immerse them in cold 
water for a few moments, then drain them; cut off the 





EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

stalks, and gently rub off the outer skin with a moist 
flannel dipped in salt; boil the vinegar, adding to 
each quart two ounces of salt, half a nutmeg grated, 
a im of mace, and an ounce of white pepper-corns; 
put the mushrooms into the vinegar for ten minutes 
over the fire ; then pour the whole into small jars, 
taking care that the spices are equally divided ; let 
them stand a day, then cover them. 



n rlusbroom Catsup 

Large quantities of mushrooms of various species 
are annually consumed in Europe in the manufacture 
of catsup. Following is one of the many favorite 
foreign recipes: 

Place the Agarics, of as large a size as you can 
procure, layer by layer in a deep pan; sprinkle each 
layer with a little salt; the next day stir them well 
several times, so as to mash and extract their juice; on 
the third day strain off the liquor, measure and boil 
for ten minutes, and then to every pint of liquor add 
half an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce 
of bruised ginger-root, a blade of mace, a clove or two, 
and a teaspoonful of mustard-seed; boil again for 
half an hour, put in two or three bay-leaves, and set 
aside until quite cold; pass through a strainer, and 
bottle; cork well and dip the ends of the bottle in 
melted resin or beeswax; a very little Chili vinegar 
is an improvement, and some add a glass of port- 
wine or of ale to every bottle. Care should be taken 
that the spice is not so abundant as to overpower 
the true flavor of the mushrooms. 



RECIPES 321 

34 Dried Mushrooms 

It will often happen in a normal fungus season that 
the production will exceed the possibility of consump- 
tion, and thousands of pounds of delicious mushrooms 
will thus be left to decay in their haunts. 

The process of drying mushrooms for winter use is 
in most extensive practice by the peasantry of Europe 
and Britain, who thus find an all- the-year- round de- 
pendence upon mushroom diet. 

With most species this process of desiccation is so 
simple that it is recommended, in the confident belief 
that, once tried, the winter mushroom will hereafter af- 
ford a frequent relish upon many a board and will well 
repay the slight trouble in their summer preparation. 

In most of the Agarics  notably the Campestris, 
Procerus, Champignon, Russula, Chantarelle  simply 
threading on strings and hanmncr in the sun and 
wind, or festooned above the kitchen range, will be 
sufficient to reduce them to complete dryness in a 
few hours. Indeed, some of these, such as the Pro- 
cerus and Champignon, dry spontaneously in their 
haunts, and may be thus gathered. 

In the instances of more fleshy fungi, such as the 
Boleti, Polyporei, and Coprinus, more rapid desicca- 
tion is necessary. By exposing them in the sun on 
a tin roof or absorbent paper the moisture is rapidly 
evaporated. They might also be suspended above 
the kitchen range in a wire basket and thus quickly 
dried. In Boleti the drying is facilitated by the 
removal of the whole pore layer, which is easily sep- 
arated from the cap. 




EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The Clavaria and Morel are very simply dried, even 
in ordinary house temperature. Strung upon threads 
and suspended in the sun or near the fire they would 
very quickly be reduced to absolute dryness. 

Mushrooms thus treated seem to retain their aro- 
ma; in Procerus, Clavaria, Morel, Helvetia, and " Fairy- 
ring *' being intensified above that of their moist con- 
dition and most appetizing. 

The desiccated specimens should be kept in a dry 
place, with good circulation of air, or enclosed in her- 
metically sealed tin boxes ; in the latter case being 
occasionally examined to insure against mould by 
possible absorption of moisture. 

When desired for use they are simply soaked in 
tepid water, which, by gradual absorption, causes the 
specimens occasionally to assume almost their orig- 
inal dimensions and juicy character, when they should 
be treated as recommended for the fresh mushrooms. 



For the benefit of the vegetarian, or the curiously 
or experimentally inclined, 1 append a few sugges- 
tions apropos of a menu a la mode, in which the fun- 
gus might be employed with good effect as a rival to 
the familiar established prandial delights. Each se- 
lection is numbered with reference to its particular 
descriptive or suggestive paragraph in the preceding 
pages of the chapter. 

A feast based upon these recommendations, re- 
enforced with appropriate adjuncts  the " mother "- 
born vinegar, the fungus-leavened loaf, the fungus- 
foaming beaker  might cumulatively prove a per- 
suasive plea for the creed of vegetarianism. 




3 

V 



s 

* 

,* 



i 



Consomme de boeuf clair, 23 
Potage a la puree d'huitres, i, n, 13 
Potage a la puree de boeuf, 22 
Potage a la puree de volaille, 24 

{frissons 

COtelettes de poisson  Sauce aux 

champignons, 13 
Escalope de poisson, 13 

Jjjors-u'oenores 

Croquettes de ris de veau, 24 
Bouchees au poulet, 24 

IklCDCC 
Filet de boeuf aux champignons, , 23 

(Entrees 

Omelette aux jambon, 30 
Rognons d'agneau, n 
Pate de biftecks, 22 
Beignettes d'huitres, 13. 23 
Huitres en curry, 23 
Petits vols-au-vent d'huitres ou bou- 
chees d'huitres, 13, 23 
Fricassee de poulet, 24 

(Entremets 

Salad de Russula au mayonnaise, 31 

Salad de Fistulina, 31 

Salad de Clavaria, 31 

Salad de volaille, 3* 

Dessert 

Omelette souffle au gelee, 30 
Pouding souffle, 30 
Gelee de Hydnum, 30 



r:woocGeroDcor>~"*>>:o>:*~#<^^^ 




cJo ibliocjtaphy 



AMERICAN 

i. Geological and Natural History Survey of North Carolina. 
Part III. Botany. Containing a catalogue of the indigenous and 
naturalized plants of the State. By Rev. M. A. Curtis, D.D., etc. 
Raleigh, 1867. (Out of print.) 

2. Mushrooms of America. Edible and Poisonous. Edited by 
Julius A. Palmer, Jr. Numerous colored plates. Published by 
L. Prang & Co., Boston, 1885. 

3. About Mushrooms. A Guide to the Study of Esculent and 
Poisonous Fungi. A collection of various articles upon the sub- 
ject. By Julius A. Palmer. Lee & Shepard, Boston, 1894. 

4. Boleti of the United States. A catalogue containing full de- 
scriptions of one hundred and eight species. (No illustrations.) 
By Professor Charles H. Peck, State l>otanist, State Hall, Albany, 
N. Y. Annual Report of the State Botanist issued by the Board 
of Regents, Albany University. 

Professor Peck has also published a series of papers on " Edi- 
ble Mushrooms " in The Country Gentleman, of Albany, N. Y. A 
new work from him on this subject is in preparation. 

5. Pacific Coast Fungi. By Dr. H. \V. Harkness and Justin P. 
Moore. 1880. A catalogue. 

6. The Deadly and Minor Poisons of Afushrooms. By Charles 
Mcllvaine. Reprint from the Therapeutic Gazette. George S. 
Davis, Detroit, Mich. Quoted in present volume. Captain Mc- 
llvaine is also the author of several popular articles on the subject 
of esculent mushrooms which have appeared in various journals 
and magazines. 

7. Fungi Caroliniani Exsiccati. Five Fasciculi, one hundred 
specimens in each. By H. W. Ravenel, of Aiken, S. C. John 
Russell, Charleston. 

8. Bulletins of United States Department of Agriculture, Wash- 
ington, D. C. By Thomas M. Taylor, Chief of the Division of 
Microscopy. Washington, D. C, 1893-94. Five issues, with many 
colored plates of various specimens, both edible and poisonous; 
also full directions for cultivation of the common mushroom. 



326 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

9: Notes for Mushroom Eaters. By W. G. Fariow. Pamphlet 
Illustrated. Garden & Forest Publishing Co., New York. 

ENGLISH 

10, Illustrations of British Mycology, (Hand-painted.) By Mrs. 
T. J. Hussey. Reeve Brothers, London, 1847. An admirable 
work, the pioneer treatise in Great Britain; rare; reference copies 
only in prominent libraries. 

11. Esculent Funguses of England. By Rev. Dr. C. D. Badham. 
With twenty colored plates. 8vo. L Reeve & Co., London. 1870. 

is. A Plain and Easy Account of the British Fungi; with De- 
scriptions of the Esculent and Poisonous Species, Details of the 
Principles of Scientific Classification, and a Tabular Arrangement 
of Orders and Genera. By M. C. Cooke, M.A., LL.D. With 
twenty-four colored plates. R. Hardwick, Piccadilly, London, 
187 1. An excellent, inexpensive, and popular hand-book. 

13. Outlines <f British Fungology. Containing Characters of 
above a Thousand Species of Fungi, and a Complete list of all 
that have been described as Natives of the British Isles. By 
Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. Lovell Reeve, Henrietta 
Street, Covent Garden, London, i860. Beautifully illustrated 
with twenty- four lithographic hand -colored plates by W. Fitch, 
each plate presenting several species, and including a number of 
the esculent. 

1 4. Mushrooms and Toadstools : How to Distinguish Easily the 
Differences between Edible and Poisonous Fungi. With two 
large sheets containing figures of twenty-nine edible and thirty- 
one poisonous species drawn the natural size, and colored from 
living specimens. By Worthington T. Smith, F.L.S. 2d edition, 
R. Hardwick, 192 Piccadilly, London, 1875. 

1$. A Selection of the Eatable Funguses of Great Britain. Edited 
by Robert Hogg, LL.D., and Geo. W. Johnson, F.R.H.S. Nu- 
merous excellent hand-colored plates. 

16. Fungi: Their Nature and Uses. By M. C. Cooke, M.A., 
LL.D. ; edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. In 
" International Scientific Series." D. Appleton & Co., N. Y. 
A very full and condensed epitome of the science of fungology. 

17. Hand-book of British Fungi. By M. C. Cooke. 2 vols. 
Macmillan & Co., London, 187 1. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 327 

18. Illustrations of British Fungi. Atlas to accompany above. 
By M. C. Cooke. Williams & Norgate, London, 1889. 

19. Scottish Cryptogamic Flora. 6 vols. By R. R. Greville, 1823. 

20. Fungi-hunters'' Guide. By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

21. Elementary Text-book. By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

22. British Fungi. By John Stevenson. William Blackwood & 
Sons. London, 1886. 

23. Mushroom Culture. By W. Robinson. F. Warne & Co., 
London, 1870. Containing full directions for the cultivation of 
mushrooms ; also an extended chapter upon common wild species. 
Illustrated with wood-cuts, numerous recipes, etc. 

FRENCH 

24. Plantes Usuelles. Par Joseph Roches. Vol. IV., containing 
the Edible and Poisonous Fungi : also his Histoire des Cham- 
pignons Comestibles et Tene-neux. Elegantly illustrated. Paris, 
1838. 

25. Les Champignons: Histoire, Description, Culture, Usages 
des Especes Comestibles, Ve'nt^neuses, Suspectes, etc. Par F. S. 
Cordier. With sixty chromo - lithographs. 4th edition. Paris, 
1876. 

26. Histoire Naturellc des Champignons. By G. Sicard. C. H. 
Delagrave, Paris, 1883. Numerous colored plates. Rare. Copy 
in Astor Library, N. Y. 

27. Botanique Cryptogamique, ou Histoire des Families Nat u relies 
des Plantes Inferieures. Par J. Payer, Docteur fes Sciences, etc. 
With 1 105 engravings on wood. Victor Masson, Paris, 1850. 

28. Des Champignons. (Orflla Prize Essay.) By Emile Boudier. 
J. B. Ballifcre, Paris, 1866. 

29. Champignons. By L. M. Gautier. J. B. Balliere et Fils. 
Paris, 1884. 

30. Figures Peintes de Champignons. By Captain L. Lucand. 
Friedlander & Son, Berlin, 1882. (Reference copy at Massachu- 
setts Horticultural Society.) 

31. Les Champignons. By J. Moyen. J. Rothschild, Paris, 1889. 

32. No uvelle Flore. By J. Constantin and Leon Dufour. Paul 
Dupont, Paris, 1891. 



a I 

I 




TcTt 



Acknowl: 

Agarfrattx, order of the, 77. 
Agaricini, 75-178 ; botanical characters 

of. 79. 
Agarics, edible. 80-178; Curtis' s list 

Agarictts,\l,\\ ; vegetation of, 44-47, 
85-92, 107 ; botanical characters ni, 
77-79. '83. 



Agarii 



; spec] 



I of :- 



-Mam 



312; vaporarias, 91;  vil/atiins.qi; 
 -Areucni, 300. See, also, Russula, 

C'ojjrl mis, Lactarius, Chantarelle.and 



1. genus of, readily identified, 2, 



il characters of, 29, 33, 41- 



t, 85, 91 ; epicu- 
rean opinions of. 94;  lampcstris, 
9, 13, 21, 24, 80-95, 3<>7. 39. 321 : 
the ' Mushroom," 16-22 ; variations 
in, 89-93; spore-[iriut of. 2S3 ; 
candicans, 86;  eummus, 147: 
fusipcs, 299 ;  gamiomi, 95-K11; to 
cook, 313;  h/UrephylLi, s 



cup or 
t.273. 



volva 



1. *9. 33. 47. 48. 



i-luS; 



melUut, 10,28;  orctlhi, 300;  os- 
treatus, IO, 26, 141-148, 303, 307 ; 
pratemii, 91 ; proserin. 10. 86, 87. 
113-119, 312, 32i;  rHAi'r, 300; 
tthiiariui, 10, 2d, 27, 148-154, 303, 



- Vegetation and development of, 44, 
45, 74 ; the veil or shroud of, 48. 

- I-V.alitics from eating. 2, 15. 19, 60 ; 
a dangerous enemy, 15, 23, 29 ; "' sil- 
ver test " upon, 26 ; effect of salt and 
heat upon. 29. 

- Poison of, 48, 60 ; chemical nature 
of poison of, 48, 61 ; Czar Alexis, 52; 
Agrippina, 59 ; intoxication from, 59, 
60 ; dipsomaniacs, 59, 60 ; isolation 
of poison of,6l ; absorption of poison 
of, by contact and odor, 30, 69 ; di- 

of poison of, 



330 



INDEX 



38, 39 ; antidote for poison of, 61-68 : 
report of a case of poisoning by, 63- 
66 ; poison of, extracted by vinegar, 

7*. 
Amanita, Poisonous species of :  ver- 

nus 9 17, 25, 51 ;  muscarius, 51, 73 ; 

spore-print of, 289, 291; -pAalfoides, 

51. 74. 

 Edible species of, 73 ; Casarea, 
rubesctns, strobiliformis, 9, 12, 48. 

Amanitine, 60 ; antidote, 62. 

Alexis, Czar, victim of Amanita, 52. 

America and Europe, comparative ap- 
preciation of fungi in, 299. 

American and European fungi identi- 
cal, 12. 

American mycophagists, 8, 9, 15. 

Antidotes for mushroom poisoning, 62, 
67, 68. 

Ants attacked by fungi, 295. 

A set in fungi, 256. 

Aseomycetts, 256. 

Asiatic Russia, Amanita dipsomaniacs 
of, 59* 

Bacterium bacillus, 7, 8. 

Badham, Dr. C. D., quoted, xiL, 12, 

13. 40, 177. 189, 237. 246, 299, 301, 

306, 310, 316. Bibliography, No. 

11,326. 
Baked mushrooms, 31 1-3 13. 
Basket for gathering mushrooms, 36. 
4 * Beefsteak " mushroom, 11, 27, 213- 

217. 33 I to cook, 314; as salad, 

319- 
Bees and wasps, 36. 

Beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Belladonna. See Atropine. 

Berkeley, Rev. M. J., variations in 
Campestris, 40, 91 ; quoted, 107, 237, 
246, 294, 301. Bibliography, Nos. 
13 and 16, 326. 

Bibliography  American, 325; Eng- 
lish, 326 ; French, 327. 

Bitter Boletus, 208. 

.Blights, 7. 



Blue mould, 78. 

Blue-stain Boleti, 196. 

Boleti, 182-213; botanical characters 
of, 181-184, 285 ; hawk fed upon, 
302 ; fritters of, 314 ; soup of, 314 ; 
to dry, 321. 

Boletus, characters of, 182 ; various 
edible, 10, 26, 182-213 5 spore-print 
of, 285. 

Boletus^  aJveolatus, 183, 201, 208;  
eastatteus, 10;  chrysenteron % 195- 
201 ;  collinitus, 10 ;  eyantscens, 
201, 207 ; cone-like, 202 ;  tdulis t 
IO, 13, 16, 18, 189, 190, 300 ; artificial 
cultivation of, 86 ; crimson, 213 ; 
 eUgans, 10 ;ftlteus t 207,208-213; 
 Jtavidus, io \granulatus % 10 ;  
luteus % 10 ;  satanas, 207, 208 ;  
scaler, 10, X91-195 ;  subtomentosus, 
10, 26, 183, 195 ; blue stain of, 196, 
201, 207 ;  strobilomyces, 202-207 ; 
spore-print of, 281 ;  versipellis, 10. 

Botanical discrimination, 31, 32. 

 discrimination of Amanita. See 
Amanita. 

Boudier, Emile. Bibliography, No. 28, 

327. 

Bozrista nigrescens, 10. 

 plumbea % 10. 
Broiled mushrooms, 308. 

Bubbola maggiore. See Pasture Mush- 
room. 
Bulbosine, 60. 

Campestris. See Agaricus. 
Cantharelhis,  cibarius, 10, 27, 172- 

178, 300;  aurantiaeus, 178; to 

cook, 310; drying of, 321. 
Caterpillar fungi, 295. 
Catsup, Mushroom, 320. 
Champignon lt Fairy- Ring," 27, 87, 

95; to cook, 309 ; dried, 321. 

 Poisonous, 108, 113. 
Chantarelle. See Cantharellus. 
" Chef a la mode," the, 305. 
Chemical analysis of fungi, 14, 302. 



INDEX 



331 



Chestnut-burr fungus, 294. 

Chestnut tongue. See Fistulina. 

Chicken flavor in mushrooms, 303, 316. 

Chinese caterpillar fungus, 296. 

Cicada fungus, 295. 

Classification of fungi, 77, 78. 

Claudius, Emperor, poisoned, 59. 

Clavariei, 231, 247-256. 

Clavaria, Various, 10, 11;  amethys- 
tine, fastigiata, Jlava, rugosa % stricfa, 
umbrina, 255 ;  botrytis, 256 ;  for- 
mosa, 247: to cook, 317; used as 
salad, 319 ; to dry, 322. 

Club fungi. See Clavaria. 

Cogomdos. See Pasture Mushroom. 

Colored plates of the book, 39. 

Coniomycetes, 78. 

Consomme* from mushrooms, 315. 

Cooke, Rev. Dr. M. C, 40, 59, 214, 
237, 273, 295, 306, 307, 313, 315- 
Bibliography, Nos. 12, 16, 17, 326 ; 
No. 18, 327. 

Cooking fungi, 72, 306-322. 

Coprinus, 87; to dry, 321 ;  atramen- 
tarius, II, 27, 28, 161, 163;  coma- 
tus, II, 87, 154-160. 

Coral fungi. See Clavaria. 

Cordier, F. S., 246, 248, 306, 319. 
Bibliography, No. 25, 327. 

Correspondents, 2-6. 

Cortinarins castaneus, cinnamomeus, 
viohueus, 11. 

Cosmopolitan fungi, 12. 

Coulemelle. See Pasture Mushroom. 

Crimson Boletus, 213. 

Cnptogamia, the, 7. 

Crystals on drying fungi, 227. 

Culinary "treatment" of fungi, 72, 
214, 304. 

Cultivation of mushrooms, 85, 86. Bib- 
liography, No. 8, 325 ; No. 23, 327. 

"Cup," the, in Amanita, 29, 33, 47, 

48. 57. 74, 273. 
Currie, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 
Curtis, Rev. M. A., pioneer American 

mycophagist, 9, 32, 40. 
18 



Curtis's, Rev. M. A. , list of edible mush- 
rooms, 9-12; quoted, 219, 245, 301, 
318. Bibliography, No. I, 325. 

Cystidium, the, 77, 256. 

Deadly mushrooms and toadstools, 

2, 3. 43-74. 
Deaths by fungi, 43, 61. 

Decaying fungi, 6, 25, 30, 278. 

Delagrave, C. H. Bibliography, No. 
26, 327. 

Desiccation of fungi, 107, 1 19, 246, 262, 
321. 

Diagnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 38, 63-68. 

Doe-skin mushroom. See Hydnum 
repandum. 

Dried fungi. See Desiccation of fungi. 

Dufour, J. Constantin and Leon. Bib- 
liography, No. 32, 327. 

Dust-like fungi, 78. 

Economic fungology, 7, 13, 14. 

Edible Amanitce, 9, 12, 73. 

Edible mushrooms, number of species, 
2, 7, 32. 60; list of, by Curtis, 9-12; 
popular tests for identification, 22, 
23; become poisonous from contact 
with Amanita, 70. 

Elm mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 148-154, 
303, 312. 

Ek't'l/acei, 231. See Helvella. 

Emetic mushroom. See Russula. 

Epicurean perversity, 72. 

European and American fungi iden- 
tical, 12. 

European mycologists, 14, 326, 327. 

Fairy-rim; mushroom, 95, 101-108 ; 
cause of "ring," 102, 107 ; recipes for 
cooking, 107, 108; false or poison- 
ous, 108, 113. 

False Champignon, 108. 

Farlow, \V. G. Bibliography,' No. 9, 
326. 

" Fish mushroom," 154, 303, 312. 



332 



INDEX 



Futulina hepatica, u, 26, 27, 213, 
299, 303 ; to cook, 314 ; as salad, 

319. 
Fly, Fungus attacking, 295. 

Fly-poison, Amanita, 27, 51, 52, 72. 
See Amanita muscarius. 

Food, Fungi as, 8, 13-15, 35, 221, 245, 
299-323. 

M Foxfire," 227. 

France, Fungus-eaters of , 14. 

Fried mushrooms, 313-318. 

Fries, Fungologist, 268. 

Fritters of fungi, 314, 318. 

Fungi. See, also, Toadstools, Mush- 
rooms, and Moulds. 

 by mail, 4, 5. 

 Chemical constituents of, 14, 302. 

 Classification of, 77, 78. 

 Common tests for *' Edible, '* and 
their reputation, 17-21, 24-29. 

 Coral. See Clavaria. 

 Crystals on, 227. 

 Cultivation of, 85, 88. Bibliog- 
raphy, No. 8, 325 ; No. 23, 327. 

 Desiccation of, 1x9, 246, 262, 301, 
310,321. 

 Economic, 7, 13. 

 Edible. See Agaricus Boletus, 
Clavarei, Fistulina, Helvella, Morel, 
Mushroom, and Puff-balls. 

 Fastidiousness in vegetation, 86-88, 
294. 

 Gill-bearing (Agarics), 78, 178. 

 Hawk fed upon, 302. 

 Hygrometric properties of, 119. 

 Insects infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36- 

38, 135. 

 List of works on, 325. 

 Medical, 277. 

 Menu for fungus repast, 323. 

 Miscellaneous, 231-274. 

 Mycelium, or spawn, of, 44, 45, 77, 
85, 88, 92, 107. 

 Number of species of, 6. 30, 60. 

 on caterpillars and chrysalids, 295. 

 on chestnut-burr, 294. 



Fungi on house-fly, 295. 

 opposed to cultivation, 86-88. 

 Ornamental forms of, 227. 

 Phosphorescent, 227. 

 Physiological features of, 15. 

 Poisoning by, 2, 15, 20/; diagnosis 
and treatment, 37; remedies, 38, 
39; intoxication from, 59; antidotes, 
62,67,68; report of poisoning case, 
63-66; poisoning by contact and 
odor, 69; edible species inoculated 
by contact, 70. 

 Popular distrust of, 15, 21. 

 Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

 Raw, eaten as salad, 248, 319. 

 Recipes for cooking, 306-319. 

 simulating animal food, 15, 30, 302. 

 Spores and Spore-print of, 277-296. 

 Study of, 7. 

 traditions and superstitions, 22, 23. 

 Vegetation of. 44, 47, 85-92, 107, 
294. 

 Whims of habitat of, 294. 
Fungologists, Amateur, safe rules for, 

33. 
Fungus food in Europe and America, 

8, 13-15. 35, 299. 

 gnats, flies, and beetles, 37. 

Gasteromycetes, 78. 

Gathering mushrooms, Rules for, 35,36. 

Gautier, Dr. M. L., 62. Bibliography, 

No. 29, 327. 
Germany, Fungus-eaters in, 14. 
Gill-bearing mushrooms, 75-178. 
Gnats infesting fungi, 37. 
Greville, R. R. Bibliography, No. 19, 

327- 
"Grubs" in fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135- 

Harkness, Dr. H. W., 32, 245, 310. 
Bibliography, No. 5, 325. 

Hawk fed upon Boleti, 302. 

Hawthorne, Nathaniel, allusion to fun- 
gus phosphorescence, 228. 



INDEX 



333 



Hay, William D. Bibliography, Nos. 
20, 21, 327. 

Heat destroys poison, 29, 72. 

Hedgehog mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Helvetia cris/>a, 11, 231, 261, 262; oth- 
er species, 1 1 ; recipes for cooking, 
262, 316; to dry, 322. 

Historical fungi, 43, 59, 60. 

Hogg, Robert, LL.D. Bibliography, 
No. 15, 326. 

Horse mushroom. See Agaricus ar- 
vensis. 

House-fly fungus, 295. 

Hungarian soup of Boleti, 314. 

Hussey, Mrs. T. J., 40, 306, 310, 311, 
315, 318. Bibliography, No. 10, 
326. 

Hydnei, 231-247; to cook, 310. 

Hydnum ,300, 307;  caput-meduscr, 11, 
27, 238-243; repandwn, 1 1, 28, 232- 
238 ;  rtifescens, 237, 238 ;  coral- 
hides, 245;  ge latino sum, 319. 

 Various edible species of, 11 ; to 
cook, 246. 

Hygrometric fungus, 119. 
Hygrophorus eburneus and pratensis, 

II. 
Hymenium of fungi, 78. 
Hymenomycetes, 78. 
Hyphomycetes, 78. 

Identification of fungi, 31. 

Idiosyncrasy, 30, 61. 

Indigestibility of certain species, 

30. 
Inky mushroom, 28. See Coprinus. 
Insects attacked by fungi, 295. 

 infesting fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36, 38, 

135. 
Intoxication by Amanita, 59. 

Introduction, 1. 

Italy, Fungus-eaters of, 14, 86. 

Jelly-like mushroom, 319. 
Johnson, Geo. \V. Bibliography, No. 

15. 3 20 - 



Kamchatka, Amanita dipsomaniacs 

of, 59, 60. 
Ketchup, Mushroom. See Catsup. 
Koppe, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 

Lactarius, Poisonous, 61. 
Lactarius, Various edible species of , 1 1 ; 

 deliciosus, 28, 166-171, 300, 311; 

 pi pet 'at 'us, 28, 171;  volemum, 171. 
Lambs' kidneys, Flavor of, in fungi, 

300, 311. 
Letters to the author, 4. 
Liver mushroom. See Fistulina. 
Lucand, L. Bibliography, No. 30, 327. 
Luminous fungi, 227. 
Lycoperdacea, 267. 
Lycoperdon. See Puff-ball. 

 bovisla, 11. 

 structure of, 270. 

Mailing fungus specimens, 4. 

Marasmius,  scorodoneus, 1 1 ;  oreades, 
11, 101-108;  urens, 10S-111; fe- 
ronattts, 109- 1 13. 

Mcllvaine, Captain Charles, 32; rule 
regarding edibility of fungi, 35 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 39, 40, 62 ; fastidious- 
ness of fungi, 86, 184, 208. Bibli- 
ography, No. 6, 325. 

Meadow Mushroom. See Agaricus 
campestris. 

Medical and Surgical Reporter quoted, 
62. 

Medusa Mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Menu of mushrooms, 323. 

Microbes, 7. 

Microscopic fungi, 7. 

Mildew, 7, 78. 

Milky mushroom. See Lactarius. 

Miscellaneous fungi, 231-274. 

Mock oyster soup, 306. 

Moore, Justin P. Bibliography, No. 

5. 325. 
Moniteur Scientifique, quotation from, 

61. 



JfenUb Mnhw* See Moral. 



Morel, is, aji, aj6; to cook, 316; to 

Mortality fat mubroom poboning, 

43- 
HcM Hwhroowi, 4J. 

" Mother," 7. 
Mc*ld*, 7, 7. 

Moyeu, J. Bibliography, No. 31, 317. 
" Meacatina" poiaon, 60. 

^ 16- 



M MhtOOOM. See Toadstool*, Agari- 




-ilao 



*.se. 



i la Provencal, 306. 
Analysis uf, .19-991. 

 Baked, 311-313. 

 Basket for. 36. 

 Jo. 8, 3a J ; N0.13.3a7. 

 Bmilcd, 308. 

 caisup, 320. 
Chemical nature of, 14, 61. 
Chest nut -burr. 904. 

 Classification of, 77, 78. 

 Cosmopolitan types of , 12. 

 Cultivation of, 8;. S6. Bibliogra- 
phy, No. 23. 327. 

 Drying of. for food, tig, 246, 262, 
301, 310, 321. 

 Edible, 8, 13-15, 32. 

 Edible species : plentiful supply 
of. 13. 35. 303; Beefsteak, II, 27; 
Coral, see Clavaria ; Elm, 10 ; 
" Fairy-ring." 95, 101 ; False Fairy- 
ring, 108, 109; Horse, 85, 91-95; 
Inky. II, 20, 28, 88 ; Meadow, see 
Agaricui campesMi ; Milky, see 
Lactarius ; Moss, 245 ; Oyster, see 

113; Russula.', 119-141 ; Spine- 
bearing, sec Hydnum ; .St. (ieoige's, 
95-IOI. 



ip.de.of, 86, 394. 

 Mad, 313, 317. 

 Fritter* of, 314. 317. 

 Inaacta inf eating, as, a* 34. 3<H& 
I3S- 

 Large speciawnt of, 02. 

 Ltat of work* on, 315. 

 Hens, 303. 

 Helling. See Copt-inn*. 

 Milky. See Lactaria*. 

 Moat, Sec Hydnum. 

 Mycelial 01 apawn of, and vegeta- 
tion of, 44. 45. 77. 85-**. 0* io7- 

 Number of edible specie* of , a, 7, 9, 
39, 60; Identification of, 9, 31; Car- 
tii' lift of, o-ia; novritbing prop- 
erde* of, 14 ; chemical aJnjubUkm of 
animal food by, 15, 30, 30a; popular 
teats for delecting, 09, as ; refuta- 
tion of same. 34-09 ; deatccatina of, 
119, jai; recipe* for cooking, 306- 
3 aa. 

 Number of general aperies of, 6. 

 Pickled, 319. 

 pie, 31a. 

 Poisonous species of, a, IS, 17, 4J- 
74 ; deadly species of, 2, 15, 43-74 ; 
poison by contact with, 30, 69; vine- 
gar, sweet oil, and whiskey, 39; diag- 
nosis and treatment of poisoning, 
39,63-66; historical poisoning by,43, 
59, 60; fatalities from, 43,61 ; intoxi- 
cation from, 59, 60; poison discrim- 
inated, 6t ; antidotes, 62, 67, 68: 
report of a poisoning case, 63-66 ; 
harmless mushrooms inoculated from 
poisonous, 70 ; salt, vinegar, and 
heat, 29, 39. 71, 72. See, also, Ama- 
nita, A'ussula emitica. Boletus, and 
False Champignon. 

 Rapid decay of. 6, 25, 30, 

 Roast, 311. 

 Rules for gathering, 36, 70. 

 Rural authorities on, 16-22. 

 salad. 319. 



INDEX 



335 



Mushroom soup, 306, 307, 323. 

 spawn. See Mycelium. 

 spores. See Spores and Spore- 
prints. 

 Stewed, 307, 308-311, 3i5~3i7- 

 tube. See Polyporei. 

 Testing new species of, for edibility, 

33- 

 Whims of habitat of, 294. 

Mycetes fungi, 77. 

Mycology and mycophagy, 3, 4, 7, 8. 

 Medical and economic, 7, 8, 13-15, 
35. 277. 

Mycophagists of America, 8, 9. 

 Amateur, safe rules for, 38. 

Nero, 59; poisonous mushrooms used 

by, 43- 
Night, Fungi luminous by, 227 

Nourishing properties of mushrooms, 
14. 

Oak-tongue fungus. See Fistulina. 
Odor of Amanita poisonous, 69. 
Omelet, Mushroom, 277, 278, 318. 
Orcella, Agaric, 300. 
Oyster mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 141-148; 
to cook, 303, 311, 315. 

 flavor in fungi, 237, 247, 300, 303, 

307. 3io 3 12 - 

P achy ma cocos, II. 

Palmer, Julius A., quoted: "Silver 
test," 25, 32,40; on Amanita poison, 
61, 69-71, 184, 207; on mushroom 
food, 303, 306, 311. Bibliography, 
Nos. 2, 3, 325. 

Pasture, or parasol, mushroom, 9, 13, 
80, 113. 

Paulet, 306, 314. 

Paxillus involutes, II. 

Payer, J. Bibliography, No. 27, 327. 

Peck, Prof. Charles H., 32. 40, 182, 
237, 246. Bibliography, No. 4, 325. 

Pcrsoon, 306, 316. 

Phosphorescence in fungi, 227. 



Pickled mushrooms, 319. 

Pie of mushrooms, 312, 315. 

Plates of the book, 39. 

Pliny on mushroom "tests," 25 ; on 
poisonous mushrooms, 43, 59 ; on 
edible mushrooms, 298. 

Poison-cup. See Amanita. 

Poison of Amanita, 43, 61 ; antidote, 
68 ; poisoning by contact and odor, 
69. 

Poisoning by fungi : Diagnosis and 
treatment, 38, 63, 68; vinegar as 
an antidote, 38, 71 ; antidote, 62, 
68 ; Amanita, 2, 15, 43-74 ; poison- 
ous species identified, 2, 15, 61 ; 
popular poison "tests" refuted, 
17, 21-29 1 poisoning by contact, 
30,69. 

Poisons, fatal and minor, 2, 15, 17, 29, 
30, 61. 

Polyporei, 78, 181-228; to dry, 321. 

Polyporus, various edible species of , 1 1 ; 
 sulphureus, 1 1, 219, 303; to cook, 
316; botanical character of, 181-184, 
285. 

Popular discrimination between " toad- 
stool " and "mushroom," 16-22; 
popular distrust of fungi, 15. 

Pore-bearing mushrooms. See Boletus, 
Polyporei, and Fistulina. 

Procerus mushroom, 10 ; pie of, 312. 

Puff-ball fungi, 11, 13, 27, 78, 231, 267, 
299; gemmatem, 268; saccatum, 268; 
giganteum, 268, 318; dissemination 
of spores of, 268, 277-280 ; medical 
use of, 277 ; as food, 277, 318 ; to 
cook, 318. 

"Punk," 37, 181. 

Puree of mushrooms, 307. 

Ragout of mushrooms, 309, 316. 
Ravenel, H. W. Bibliography, No. 7, 

325. 
Recipes for cooking fungi, 72, 306- 

322. 

" Ring" in mushrooms, 48, 85, 95. 



33$ 



INDEX 



Robinson, W. f 306, 312, 313. Bib- Specimens by mail, 5. 

liography, No. 33, 317. Spiders attacked by fungi, 295. 

Roquet, Joseph, 237, 306, 310, 311. Spine-bearing mushrooms, u, 27. See 

BtoMograpby, No, 24* 3*7 Hydnum. 

Rove-beetles infesting fungi, 37. Spore-prints from mushrooms, 44, 277- 
Rules for the venturesome, 33. 296 ; from Amanita muscarine, 287, 

Russia, Fungiu^aterera, 14; fy Asia- 289; from Boletus, 285, 287; from 

nita in, 29k Agaricus campestris, 283. 

Russuta, 12, 13, 18, 26, 2%\Upida t 12, Spore surface, or bymenium, 78, 182. 

. 127 ;  alutacea, 12, 133 ;  virescens, Spores of fungi, 79, 87, 182, 268, 277- 

12,88, 120, yaojtmeiita, 25, 27,28, 296; number of, 279; buoyancy of, 

61, no, 122, 136-141 \keter9pkyUa, 278-293; various colors of, 287; 

134, 300; -ruber, 300. rious forms of, 293. 

Ruseuia, 1 tg; opposed to cultivation of, Sparidiifera, 77, 231, 256. 



88; insects infesting, 135; to bake, 
311; as salad, 3x9; to dry, 321. 

Rust, 7. 

Rustic fungology, 18-22. 

Salad of mushrooms, 319. 
Salt as an antidote, 39, 72. 
"Salt test" of mushrooms, 23, 29. 



Sport/era, 77, 78, 231, 256. 

Staphylinus beetles infesting mush- 
rooms, 37. 

Stevenson, John. Bibliography, No. 
22, 3*7* 

Stew of fungi, 307, 308-3x1, 3x5-317. 

St George's mushroom, 95-xox. 

Strvbilomyces, 202. 
Scaly mushrooms. Set Amanita, Ago- Styptic, Puff-balls used as, 277. 
ritus procerus, and Beletus str*H~ Sulphur mushroom, 2x9, 303; to cook, 



Uides. 
Schmiedeberg, Dr., on Amanita poison, 
60. 

" Scotch Bonnet." See Agaricus pro- 
cerus. 

' ' Sep. " See Boletus edulis. 

" Seven Sisters of Sleep," by Rev. Dr. 
M. C. Cooke, 59. 

Shadle, Dr. J. E., 62. 

Shaggy-mane mushrooms, 11, 13; rus-" 
tic appreciation of, 19, 27, 28. See 
Coprinus coma t us. 

"Shroud" in Amanita. 48. 

Silver, Discoloration of, as a " test," 23. 

Smith, Worthington T., 40, 306, 307, 
309, 314. Bibliography, No. 14, 326. 

Smuts, 7. 

Socket in Amanita. See Volva. 

Souffle of puff-balls, 318. 

Sparassisy  crispa, 12 ;  luminosa, 12. 

"Spawn," or mycelium, of fungi, 44, 
45. 77. 80, 85-88, 92. 107. 



3x6 ; as a salad, 319, 

" Sweetbreads'' in fungi, 300, 303. 

Sweet-oil treatment for mushroom poi- 
soning, 39. 

Taylor, Thomas M. Bibliography, 
No. 8, 325. 

Teeth-bearing mushrooms. See Hyd- 
num. 

Tertullian on toadstools, 17. 

Testing new species for edibility, 33. 

"Tests" or "proofs" for the detec- 
tion of poisonous species, 17, 21-29. 

Therapeutic Gazette, quotation from, 

39- 
Thore, Dr., quoted, 86. 

Thread-like fungi, 78. 

"Tinder," 37, 181. 

"Toadstool" and " Mushroom," 16- 
21, 36; popular discrimination of, 16- 
24; popular tests for their discrimina- 
tion and their refutation, 17-22, 24- 



29. See Mushroom, Fungi, Agaricus, 
Amanita, Boletus, Polyporei, Morel, 
Clavaria, Helvella. 

" Toadstools," 1B1. 

"Touchwood," 37. 181. 

Tremelodou gelatitlSium, 319. 
Tiuhogaslres, 231. See Puff-balls. 
Tube mushrooms. See Polyporei, 
Boletus, and Fistulina. 

Vegetarian, Menu for the, 304, 323. 
Veil in mushrooms. 48, 60, 85. 
Vigter, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 



Vinegar as an antidote for mushroom 

poisoning, 39, 71. 
Vitadini, 318. 
Volva in Amanita, Importance of, in 

classification, 29, 33, 48. 77- 

Warty mushrooms. See Amanita, 
Pasture Mushroom, and Slrotylo- 

Wasps and bees, 36, 
 Fungus attacking, 295, 
Whiskey in mushroom poisoning, 39. 
Wormy specimens of fungi, 35, 30, 34, 
36-38. "35. 




f '''" 



 V**-W .*-* 



to nos me. tins book should be returned on 
or before the dale last stamped below 



1, 




1SB-7-41 



3 blDS Gil SSS 120 



STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES 

STANFORD AUXILIARY LIBRARY 

STANFORD, CALIFORNIA 94305-6004 

|650) 723-9201 

5olcirc@5ulmoil. 5tanford.edu 

All books are subject to recoil. 

DATE DUE 






(H 


Ipil 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



f^:^^4Li^y,^ B^jULlu, 



A GIFT TO THE 




UNIV. of WISCONSIN-MADISON 

ARBORETUM 



Katharine T, Bradley 



T 



ii  . A. ; 



  










f "'"oy. 




ie|5'/ 



'AH^ 



i"^:>^:M--^ 







^Oox Sclthic '^'^^f^^^^^ 




The Deadly 'AmanitX'. 



Our Edible 

H.rs'-- i ) Disi;n: ii': ' :  

'^' .'   !'hi: ' r .':  '   

' . . .\ ...-,/, r- : 



By W. HAM!LT')N Ir .DN 

Win; T^ilh TV C'.^' > >i i-;> f.j .y \i ^ 
AND ^.Fiy v-ivi.N Onill-! C.I I ^ .:.>!;' )NS HV ' ! aV " HuR 



Nr-A\ VopK ANO I.v'NOON 



Our Edible 
Toadstools and Mushrooms 

and 

How to Distinguish Them 

A Selection of Thirty Native Food yarieties 
Easily Recognisable by their Marked Indi- 
vidualities, with Simple Rules for the 
Identification of Poisonous Species 




1 ^ '\ ^ 



By W. HAMILTON GIBSON 

WITH THIRTY COLORED PLATES 
^ND FIFTY-SEVEN OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE AUTHOR 



NEW YORK AND LONDON 
HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 



r'*"\*f 




B9i^ 



THE WORKS OF W. HAMILTON GIBSON. 

ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR. 



SHARP EYES. A Rambler's Calendar among Birds, Insects, and 

Flowers. 8vo, ^5 00. 
HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS; or, Sauntcrings in New England. 

4to, %^ 50. 

STROLLS BY STARLIGHT AND SUNSHINE. Royal 8vo, $3 5 
HAPPY HUNTING-GROUNDS. A Tribute to the Woods and 

Fields. 4to, %^^ 50. 
PASTORAL DAYS; or, Memories of a New F:ngland Year. 

4to, %^ 50. 

CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS, and the Tricks of Trapping and 
Trap-making. i6mo, j^i 00. 

NFAV YORK AND LONDON : 
HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS. 



Copyright, 1895, by Harper & Brothers. 

All right i rtsfrved. 






Lcl"/ 



c: 



/..- 






''For those who do hunger after the eartblie 
excrescences called mushrooms."  Gerarde. 



.- ^ yj 

' /^*^ 

/' INTRODUCTION i 

/// THE rkEADLV AMANITA . .  

f// THE AGARICACE^ 77 \\ \ 

{ '// ''^^^ flJLVPOREl isi ,i^' ' 

1| '[j MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI . . 131 mI 

il K RECIPES 99^ Jj J 

^l\A\ii BlBLIOGkAt^nV 3 ^ ^ j//// 

^jj^-t.;^ 

r J 




PAGE 

1. The Deadly ** Amanita" Frontispiece 

2. Mycelium, and early vegetation of a mushroom ... 45 

3. Amanita vern us development 49 

4. Agaricus (Amanita) muscarius 55 

5. Agaricus campestris 83 

6. Agaricus campestris various forms of 89 

7. Agaricus gambosus 99 

8. Marasmius oreades. "Fairy-ring" 105 

9. Poisonous Champignons. M. urensM, peronatus . . .111 

10. Agaricus procerus 117 

11. Agaricus (Russula) virescens 123 

12. Edible Russule. R. beteropbyllaR. alutaceaR. lepida .131 

13. Russula emetica 139 

14. Agaricus ostreatus 145 

15. Agaricus ulmarius 151 

16. Coprinus comatus 157 

17. Coprinus atramentarius 163 

18. Lactarius deliciosus 169 

19. Cantharellus cibarius 175 

20. Boletus edulis 187 

21. Boletus scaber i93 



LIST OF PLATES 

PAGB 

22. Edible Boleti. B. suhtomentosusB. cbrysinleron .... 199 

23. Strobilomyces strobilaceus 205 

24. Suspicious Boleti. B./eiUusB. alveolatus 211 

25. Fistulina hepatica 217 

26. Polyporus sulphureus 225 

27. Hydnum repandum 235 

28. Hydnum caput-medusse 241 

29. Hydnum caput-medusa? habitat 243 

30. Clavaria formosa 251 

31. Various forms of Clavaria 253 

32. Morchella esculenta 259 

33. Helvella crispa 265 

34. A group of Puff-balls 271 

35. Spore-surface and spore-print of Agaricus 283 

36. Spore-surface and spore-print of Polyporus {Boletus) . 285 

37. Spore-print of Amanita muscarius 289 

38. Action of slight draught on spores 291 

















^fi ;,' '*t .'^' 







Tlie Spumed Harvest 




''Whole bufhfred- 
tcc/gbis of rub, ivhoie- 
some diet ro/iutg itUifer /be 
BfT- frees; ivooifs ieemitig wilb 
^^^^ /^^'Jf^ arui not arte haruf io 
\ 1^ _ gather it ; and tb/s. perhaps, in 
the midst of poirtiv and ail 
manner of privations and , 
pubiii- prayers against ^/.. 
imminent Jannne/* \y^ 

C. D. BaDHAM r^'^\ 
ft J>M 

HA J V * 






ofntxodaction 



PROMINENT botanical authority con- 
nected with one of our universities, 
upon learning of my intention of per- 
petrating a popular work on our ed- 
ible mushrooms and toadstools, was inclined 
to take issue with me on the wisdom of such 
publication, giving as his reasons that, owing 
to the extreme difficulty of imparting exact 
scientific knowledge to the " general reader," such a 
work, in its presumably imperfect interpretation by 
the very individuals it is intended to benefit, would 
only result, in many instances, in supplanting the 
popular wholesome distrust of all mushrooms with 
a rash over-confidence which would tend to increase 
the labors of the family physician and the coroner. 
And, to a certain extent, in its appreciation of the 
difficulty of imparting exact science to the lay mind, 
his criticism was entirely reasonable, and would cer- 
tainly apply to any treatise on edible mushrooms for 
popular circulation which contemplated a too exten- 
sive field, involving subtle botanical analysis and nice 
differentiation between species. 



2 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But when we realize the fact  now generally con- 
ceded  that most of the fatalities consequent upon 
mushroom - eating are directly trace- 
Identification ^j^jg ^Q Qj^g particular tempting group 

fatal species of fungi, and that this group is more- 
over so distinctly marked that a tyro 
could learn to distinguish it, might not such a pop- 
ular work, in its emphasis by careful portraiture and 
pictorial analysis of this deadly genus  placarding 
it so clearly and unmistakably as to make it readily 
recognizable  might not such a work, to that extent 
at least, accomplish a public service ? 

Moreover, even the most conservative mycologist 

will certainly admit that out of the hundred and fifty 

of our admittedly esculent species of 

Conservative fungi there might be segregated a few 

mycoiosy which bear such conspicuous charac- 
ters of outward form and other unique 
individual features  such as color of spores, gills, 
and tubes, taste, odor, surface character, color of 
milky juice, etc.  as to render them easily recogniz- 
able even by the " general reader." 

It is in the positive, affirmative assumption of these 
premises that the present work is prepared, com- 
prising as it does a selection of a score or more, as 
it were, self-placarded esculent species of fungi, while 
putting the reader safely on guard against the fatal 
species and a few other more or less poisonous or 
suspicious varieties which remote possibility might 
confound with them. 

Since the publication of a recent magazine article 
on this topic, and which became the basis of the pres- 



INTRODUCTION 3 

ent elaboration, I have been favored with a numerous 
and almost continuous correspondence upon mush- 
rooms, including letters from every 
Interest "in ^^^^^ ^^ ^^e Union, to say nothing of 
mushrooms Canada and New Mexico, evincing the 
wide -spread interest in the fungus 
from the gustatory point of view. The cautious 
tone of most of these letters, in the main from neo- 
phyte mycologists, is gratifying in its demonstration 
of the wisdom of my position in this volume, or, as 
one of my correspondents puts it, " the frightening of 
one to death at the outset while extending an invita- 
tion to the feast." " Death was often a consequence 
of toadstool eating," my friend continued, "but I 
never before realized that it was a certain result with 
any particular mushroom, and to the extent of this 
information I am profoundly thankful." 

While, then, from the point of view of desired popu- 
larity of my book, the grim greeting of a death's-head 
upon the frontispiece might be consid- 
Caution at ered as something of a handicap, the 
the threshold author confesses that this attitude is 
the result of " malice prepense " and 
deliberation, realizing that he is not offering to the 
" lay public," for mere intellectual profit, this scientific 
analysis of certain fungus species. Were this alone 
the raison d'etre or the logical outcome of the work 
 mere identification of edible and poisonous* species 
 the grewsome symbol which is so conspicuous on 
two of my pages might have been spared. But when 
it is remembered that with the selected list of escu- 
lent mushrooms herein offered is implied also an in- 



4 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

vitation and a recommendation to the feast thereof, 
with the author as the host  that the digestive func- 
tions of his confiding friends or guests are to be 
made the final arbiters of the correctness of his bo- 
tanical identification  the ban of bane may as well 
be pronounced at the threshold. Let the too eager 
epicurean be " scared to death at the outset," on the 
general principle /r^ bono publico^ and to the concilia- 
tion of the author's conscience. 

The oft-repeated queries of other correspondents 
suggest the wisdom of a clearer definition of the 
limitations of the present work. Sev- 
To corre- eral individuals have written in surprise 
spondenu of their discovery of a new toadstool 
which I " did not include in my pict- 
ured magazine list," with accompaniment of more or 
less inadequate description and somewhat enigmatical 
sketches, and desiring the name of the species and 
judgment upon its esculent qualities. Such corre- 
spondence is a pleasing tribute to an author, and is 
herewith gratefully acknowledged as to the past and, 
with some mental reservations, welcomed as to the 
future. The number of these communications  oc- 
casionally several in a day, and with consequent rapid 
accumulation  renders it absolutely impossible for a 
busy man to give them the prompt personal atten- 
tion which courtesy would dictate. My " mushroom " 
pigeon-hole, therefore, is still plethoric with the un- 
honored correspondence of many weeks; and inas- 
much as the continual accession more than balances 
the number of my responses, a fulfilment of my obli- 
gations in this direction seems hopeless in contem- 



INTRODUCTION 5 

plation. I would therefore beg the indulgence of 
such of my friends as have awaited in vain for my 
reply to their kind communications, even though the 
future should bring no tidings from me. All of 
these letters have been received, and are herewith 
acknowledged : many of them, too, if I may be par- 
doned what would seem to be a most ungracious 
comment, for which the "dead-letter" office would 
have been the more appropriate destination. 

I refer to the correspondence " with accompany- 
ing specimens," the letter occasionally enclosed in 
the same box with the said specimens, 

Consider the which, upon its arrival, arouses a protest 
recipient from the local postal authorities, and 
calls for a liberal use of disinfectants 
 a disreputable -looking parcel, which, indeed, would 
appear more consistently referable to the health- 
board than to the mycologist. So frequent did this 
embarrassing episode become that it finally necessi- 
tated the establishment of a morgue for the benefit 
of my mushroom correspondents, or rather for their 
"specimens," usually accompanied with the queries, 
"What is the name of this mushroom? Is it ed- 
ible ?" I have been obliged to write to several of my 
friends that identification of the remains was impos- 
sible, that the remnant was more interesting ento- 
mologically than botanically, and begging that in the 
future all such similar tokens shall be forwarded in 
alcohol or packed in ice. 

" First impressions are lasting " and " a word to 
the wise is sufficient." I would suggest that corre- 
spondents hereafter consider the hazard of an intro- 



6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

duction under such questionable auspices. Most spe- 
cies of mushrooms are extremely perishable, and 
their " animal " character, chemically 
considered, and their tendency to rapid 
decomposition, render them unfit for 
transportation for any distance, unless 
hermetically sealed, or their decay otherwise antici- 
pated. 

In the possibility of a continuance of this corre- 
spondence, consequent upon the publication of this 
present book, the writer, in order to forefend a pre- 
sumably generous proportion of such correspondence, 
would here emphasize the fact that he is by no 
means the authority on mycology, or the science 
of fungi, which the attitude of his inquiring friends 
would imply. Indeed, his knowledge of species is 
quite limited. An early fascination, it is true, was 
humored with considerable zeal to the accumulation 
of a portfolio of water-colors and other drawings of 
various fungi  microscopic, curious, edible, and poi- 
sonous  and this collection has been subsequently 
added to at intervals during his regular professional 
work. 

More than one of the originals of the accompany- 
ing colored plates have been hidden in this portfolio 
for over twenty years, and a larger number for ten 
or fifteen years, awaiting the further accumulation of 
that knowledge and experience, especially with refer- 
ence to the edibility of species, which should warrant 
the utterance of the long-contemplated book. 

The reader will therefore kindly remember that 
out of the approximate icx)o odd species of fungi en- 



INTRODUCTION ^ 

titled by their dimensions to the dignity of "toad- 
stools " or " mushrooms "  after separating the 2000 
moulds, mildews, rusts, smuts, blights, 
Number of yeasts, " mother," and other microscopic 

mushroom -^ . *^ 

species species  and out of the 150 recom- 
mended edible species, the present work 
includes only about thirty. This selection has direct 
reference to popular utility, only such species having 
been included as offer some striking or other indi- 
vidual peculiarity by which they may be simply iden- 
tified, even without so-called scientific knowledge. 

The addition of color to the present list enables 
its extension somewhat beyond the scope of a series 
printed only in black and white, as in the distinction 
of mere form alone an uncolored drawing of a certain 
species might serve to the popular eye as a common 
portrait of a number of allied species, possibly includ- 
ing a poisonous variety. 

While the study of " fungi " has a host of devotees, 

the mysteries which involve the origin of life in this 

great order of the cryptogamia having 

Mycolog:yand had fascinating attractions to micro- 

mycophagy scopical Students and specialists, the 
study of economic mycology has been al- 
most without a champion in the United States. Thus 
we have many learned treatises on the nature, struct- 
ure, and habits of fungi  vegetative methods, chem- 
ical constituents, specific characters, classification  
learned dissertations on the microscopical moulds, 
mildews, rusts and smuts, blights and ferments, to 
say nothing of the medico-scientific and awe-inspiring 
potentialities of the sensational microbe, bacterium 



8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

bacillus, etc., which are daily bringing humanity with- 
in their spell and revolutionizing the science of medi- 
cine. But among all the various mycological publi- 
cations we look in vain for the great desideratum of 
the practical hand-book on the economic fungus  
the mushroom as food! The mycologist who has 
been courageous enough to submit his chemical 
analysis and his botanical knowledge of 

Need of fungi to the test of esculence in his own 
a practical . ^ , 

work being is a rara avis among them ; in- 
deed, a well-known authority states that 
"one may number on the fingers of his two hands 
the entire list of mycophagists in the United States." 
The absence of such works upon the mushroom and 
" toadstool," greatly desired for reference at an early 
period of my career, and little better supplied to- 
day, led to a resolve of which this volume is but an 
imperfect fulfilment. 

The special character of my volume, then  the 
collateral consideration of the fungus as food  will 
be sufficient excuse for the omission of 
Limitations of a merely technical discourse upon the 
this volume structure, classification, and vegetation 
of fungi as a class  a field so fully cov- 
ered by other authors more competent to discuss 
these lines of special science, and to a selection of 
whose works the reader is referred in the list here- 
with appended, to a number of which I am indebted 
for occasional quotations. A general idea of the 
methods of dissemination and habitats of fungi will 
be found in the final chapter on " spore-prints," while 
under the discussion of the "Amanita," Agaricus 



INTRODUCTION 9 

campestrts, and the " Fairy Ring " the reader is re- 
ferred to a condensed account of the methods of veg- 
etation and growth of fungi sufficient for present 
purposes. Other references of similar character will 
be noted under " Fungi," in Index. 

The most conspicuous disciple of mycophagy  al- 
most the pioneer, indeed, in America  was the late 
Rev. M. A. Curtis, of North Carolina, 
The pioneer ^hose name heads the bibliography on 
mycopha^st page 325. For the benefit of those of 
my readers who may wish to follow 
the subject further than my pages wdll lead them, 
I append the list of edible species of fungi contained 
in Curtis's Catalogue, each group alphabetically ar- 
ranged, the esculent qualities of many of which he 
himself discovered and attested by personal experi- 
ment. The favorite habitat of each fungus is also 
given, and to avoid any possibility of confusion in 
scientific nomenclature or synonymes, the authority 
for the scientific name is also given in each instance : 

LIST OF EDIBLE AMERICAN MUSHROOMS 
FROM THE CATALOGUE OF DR. M. A. CURTIS 

Agaricus albellus, De Candolle. Damp woods. 

A. [amanitd) Ccesarea, Scopoli. In oak forests. 

A. (amanita) rubescens, Persoon. Damp woods. 

A, {amanita) strobiliformis, Vittadini. Common in woods. 

A, amygdalinus, M. A. Curtis. Rich grounds, woods, and lanes. 

A, arifcnsis, Schaeffer. Fields and pastures. 

A, botnbicinus. Schaeffer. Earth and carious wood. 

A, campestris, Linnaeus. Helds and pastures. 

A, castus, M. A. Curtis. Grassy old fields. 

A. cespitosus, M. A. Curtis. Base of stumps. 

A, columbetta. Fries. Woods. 

A, consociatus. Pine woods. 



lO EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Agarkus cretaceus. Fries. Earth and wood. 

A. esciilentus, Jacquin. Dense woods. 

A. excoriatus. Fries. Grassy lands. 

A. frumentaceous, Bulliard. Pine woods. 

A. giganteiis, Sowerby. Borders of pine woods. 

A. glandulosus, Bulliard. Dead trunks. 

A. hypopithyus, M. A. Curtis. Pine logs. 

A. mastoideus. Fries. Woods. 

A, melleus. Valmy. About stumps and logs. 

A. mutabilis, Schaeffer. Trunks. 

A, tubiilaris, Batsch. Damp woods. 

A, odorus, Bulliard. Woods. 

A. ostreatus. Jacquin. Dead trunks. 

A, personatus. M. A. Curtis. Near rotten logs. 

A.pometi, Fries. Carious wood. 

A. procerus. Scopoli. Woods and fields. 

A. prunulus. Scopoli. Damp woods. 

A. rachodes, Vittadini. Base of stumps and trees. 

A. radicatus, Bulliard. Woods. 

A. {russuld), Schaeffer. Among leaves in woods, 

A. salignus, Persoon. On trunks and stumps. 

A. speciosus. Fries. Grassy land. 

A. squamosus, Muller. Oak stumps. 

A, sylvaticus, Schaeffer. Woods. 

A. tesseiiatus, Bulliard. Pine trunks. 

A. ulmarius, Sowerby. Dead trunks. 
Boletus bovinus, Linnaeus. Pine woods. 

B. castaneus, Bulliard. Woods. 
B. collinitus. Fries. Pine woods. 
B, edulis, Bulliard. Woods. 

B, elegans. Fries. Earth in woods. 

B.flavidus, Fries. Damp woods. 

B.granulaius. Linnaeus. Woods and fields. 

B, luteus, Linnaeus. Pine woods. 

B, scaber, Bulliard. Sandy woods. 

B, subtomentosus. Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

B. verstpellis. Fries. Woods. 

Bovista nigresccfts. Persoon. Grassy fields. 

B. plumbea, Persoon. Grassy fields. 
Caniharellus cibarius. Fries. Woods. 
Clavaria aurea, Schaeffer. Earth in woods. 

C, botritis, Persoon. Earth in woods. 
C. cristata, Holmskiold. Damp woods. 
C.fastigiata, LinnjBus. Grassy places. 
C.flava. Fries. Earth in woods. 
C.formosa. Persoon. Earth in woods. 



INTRODUCTION II 

Clavaria fuliginea, Persoon. Shady woods. 

C macropus, Persoon. Earth. 

C, muscoides. Linnaeus. Grassy places. 

Cpyxidata, Persoon. Rotten woods. 

C, rugosa, Bulliard. Damp woods. 

C subtilis. Persoon. Shaded banks. 

C tetragona, Schwartz. Damp woods. 

Coprinus atramentarius, Bulliard. Manured ground. 

C, comatus. Fries. In stable-yards. 

Coriinarius castaneus. Fries. Earth in woods. 

C dnnamomeus. Fries. Earth and wood. 

C violaceus. Fries. Woods. 

Fistulina hepatica. Fries. Base of trunks and stumps. 

Helvella crispa. Fries. Pine in woods. 

H, infula, Schaeffer. Earth and pine logs. 

H. laciinosa, Afzelius. Near rotten logs. 

H, sulcata, Afzelius. Shady woods. 

Hydnum caput -medusce, Bulliard. Trunks and logs. 

H, coralloides, Scopoli. Side of trunks. 

H. imbricatum. Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

JI. laeingatum. Schwartz. Pine woods. 

H, repandum, Linnaeus. Woods. 

H, rufescens, Schaeffer. Woods. 

ff. subsquamosum, Batsch. Damp woods. 

Hygrophorus eburneus. Fries. Woods. 

If. pratmsis. Fries. Hill-sides. 

Lactarius augustissitnus. Lasch. Thin woods. 

Z. deliciosus. Fries. Pine woods. 

Z. insulsus. Fries. Woods. 

L.piperatus, Fries. Dry woods. 

Z. subdulcis. Fries. Damp grounds. 

Z. vokmus. Fries. Woods. 

Lycoperdon bovista. Linnaeus. Grassy lands. 

Fachyma cocos. Fries. Underground. 

Paxillus involutus. Fries. Sandy woods. 

Polyporus Berkeleii, Fries. Woods. 

P, conflums. Fries. Pine woods. 

P, cristatus. Fries. Pine woods. 

P. frondorus. Fries. Earth and base of stumps. 

P, giganteus. Fries. Base of stumps. 

P, leucomelas. Fries. Woods. 

P, ovinus, Schaeffer. Earth in woods. 

P.poripes, Fries. Wooded ravines. 

P. sulphureus. Fries. Trunks and logs. 

Marasmius oreades. Fries. Hill-sides. 

M. scorodoneus. Fries. Decaying vegetation. 



12 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Morchella Caroliniana. Bosc. Earth in woods. 
M, escuienta, Persoon. Earth in woods. 
Russula alutacea. Fries. Woods. 
R, lepida. Fries. Pine woods. 
R, virescms. Fries. Woods. 
Sparassis crispa. Fries. Earth. 
5. laminosa. Fries. Oak logs. 
Tremella mesenterica, Retz. On bark. 



In the contemplation of such a generous natural 
larder as the above list implies, Dr. Badham's feeling 
allusion to the " hundred-weights of wholesome diet 
rotting under the trees," quoted in one of my earlier 
illustrated pages, will be readily appreciated. 

In the purposely restricted scope of these pages 

I have omitted a large majority of species in Dr. 

Curtis*s list, known to be equally es- 

Restricted culent with those which I have select- 
scope of this 

volume ed, but whose popular differentiation 

might involve too close discrimination 
and possibly serious error; and while my list is 
probably not as complete as it might be with per- 
fect safety, the number embraces species, nearly all 
of them what may be called cosmopolitan types, to 
be found more or less commonly throughout the 
whole United States and generally identical with Eu- 
ropean species. It will be observed that the list of 
Dr. Curtis is headed by three members of Amanitas. 
The particular species cited are well known to be 
esculent, but they are purposely omitted from my list, 
which for considerations of safety absolutely excludes 
the entire genus Amanita of the '"^ poison-cup'' which 
is discussed at some length in the succeeding chapter. 
For popular utility from the food standpoint my se- 



INTRODUCTION 1 3 

lection presents, to all intents and purposes, a more 
than sufficient list, the species being easily distin- 
guished, and, with proper consideration to their fresh- 
ness, entirely safe and of sufficient frequency in their 
haunts to insure a continually available mushroom 
harvest throughout the entire fungus season. 

The knowledge of their identities once acquired, 

it is perfectly reasonable to assert that in average 

weather conditions the fungus-hunter 

Fungus food j^^y confine himself to these varieties 
available and still be confronted with an embar- 
rassment of riches, availing himself of 
three meals a day, with the mere trouble of a ramble 
through the woods or pastures. Indeed, he may 
restrict himself to six of these species  the green 
Russula, Puff-ball, Pasture - mushroom, Campestris 
(meadow -mushroom), Shaggy-mane, and Boletus edu- 
lis  and yet become a veritable mycological gour- 
mand if he chooses, never at a loss for an appetiz- 
ing entree at his table. 

In the group of Russulae and Boleti alone, more 
than one conservative amateur of the writer's ac- 
quaintance finds a sufficient supply to meet all diet- 
ary wants. 

What a plenteous, spontaneous harvest of delicious 
feasting annually goes begging in our 

A neglected woods and fields I 
harvest The sentiment of Dr. Badham, the 

eminent British authority on mush- 
rooms, years ago, in reference to the spontaneous 
perennial harvest of wild edible fungi which abound- 
ed in his country, going to waste by the ton, would 



14 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

appear to be as true to-day for Britain as when he 
uttered it, and applies with even greater force to the 
similar, I may say identical, neglected tribute of Nat- 
ure in our own American woods and fields, where the 
growth of fungi is especially rich. 

The fungus-eaters of Britain, it is said, are even 
to-day merely a conspicuous coterie, while in Amer- 
ica this particular sort of specialist is 
Fungus more generally an isolated " crank " who 
epicures is compelled to " flock alone," contem- 
plated with a certain awe by his less 
venturesome fellows, and otherwise variously consid- 
ered, either with envy of his experience and scientific 
knowledge, or more probably as an irresponsible, who 
continually tempts Providence in his foolhardy ex- 
periments with poison. 

But what a contrast do we find on the Continent in 
the appreciation of the fungus as an article of diet! 
In France, Germany, Russia, and Italy, for example, 
where the woods are scoured for the perennial crop, 
and where, through centuries of popular familiarity 
and tradition, the knowledge of its economic value 
has become the possession of the people, a most im- 
portant possession to the poor peasant who, perhaps 
for weeks together, will taste no other 
Chemical animal food. I say " animal food " ad- 
constituents visedly; for, gastronomically and chem- 
ically considered, the flesh of the mush- 
room has been proven to be almost identical with 
meat, and possesses the sam^ nourishing properties. 
This animal affinity is further suggested in its physi- 
ological life, the fungus reversing the order of all 



INTRODUCTION 1$ 

other vegetation in imbibing oxygen and exhaling 
carbonic acid, after the manner of animals. It is not 
surprising, therefore, that the analogy should be still 
further emphasized by the discrimination of the pal- 
ate, many kinds of fungi when cooked simulating the 
taste and consistency of animal food almost to the 
point of deception. 

But in America the fungus is under the ban, its 
great majority of harmless or even wholesome ed- 
ible species having been brought into 

dtet^"*? of popular disrepute through the contami- 
fungi nation, mostly, of a single small genus. 

In the absence of special scientific 
knowledge, or, from our present point of view, its 
equivalent, popular familiarity, this general distrust 
of the whole fungus tribe may be, however, consid- 
ered a beneficent prejudice. So deadly is the insid- 
ious, mysterious foe that kirks among the friendly 
species that it is well for humanity in general that 
the entire list of fungi should share its odium, else 
those " toadstool " fatalities, already alarmingly fre- 
quent, might become a serious feature in our tables 
of mortality. 

But the prejudice is needlessly sweeping. A little 

so<:alled knowledge of fungi has often proven to be 

a "dangerous thing," it is true, but it 

Fungus food is quite possible for any one of ordinary 
for all intelligence, rightly instructed, to mas- 
ter the discrimination of at least ^ few 
of the more common edible species, while being thor- 
oughly equipped against the dangers of deadly vari- 
eties, whose identification is comparatively simple. 



l6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It IS idle to attempt an adjudication of the vexed 
" toadstool " and " mushroom " question here. The 
toad is plainly the only final, appealable 
"^^Md^^*" authority on this subject It may be 
< mushroom" questioned whether he is at pains to de- 
termine the delectable or noisome qual- 
ities  from the human standpoint  of a particular 
fungus before deciding to settle his comfortable pro- 
portions upon its summit  if, indeed, he even so 
honors even the humblest of them. 

The oft-repeated question, therefore, " Is this fungus 
a toadstool or a mushroom .?" may fittingly be met by 
the counter query, " Is this rose a flower or a blossom .f^" 
The so-called distinction is a purely arbitrary, pop- 
ular prejudice which differentiates the " toadstool " as 
poisonous, the " mushroom " being considered harm- 
less. But even the rustic authorities are rather mixed 
on the subject, as may be well illustrated by a recent 
incident in my own experience. 

Walking in the woods with a country friend in 

quest of fungi, we were discussing this " toadstool " 

topic when we came upon a cluster of 

Popular mushrooms at the base of a tree-trunk, 

discrimination their broad, expanded caps apparently 

upholstered in fawn-colored, undressed 

kid, their under surfaces being stuffed and tufted in 

pale greenish hue. 

" What would you call those }" I inquired. 
" Those are toadstools, unmistakably," he replied. 
" Well, toadstools or not, you see there about two 
pounds of delicious vegetable meat, for it is the com- 
mon species of edible boletus  Boletus edulis^ 



INTRODUCTION 1 7 

A few moments later we paused before a beautiful 
specimen, lifting its parasol of pure white above the 
black leaf mould. 

" And what is this ?" I inquired. 

" I would certainly call that a mushroom," was his 
Instant reply. 

This mushroom proved to be a fine, tempting speci- 
men of the Agarims (amanita) vernus, the deadliest 
of the mushrooms, and one of the most violent and 
fatal of all known vegetable poisons, whose attractive 
graces and insidious wiles are doubtless continually 
responsible for those numerous fatalities usually dis- 
missed with the epitaph, " Died from eating toad- 
stools in mistake for mushrooms." 

So much, therefore, for the popular distinction which 
makes " toadstool " a synonyme for " poisonous," and 
" mushroom " synonymous with " edible," and which 
often proves to be the " little knowledge " which is 
very dangerous. 

The too prevalent mortality traceable to the mush- 
room is confined to two classes of unfortunates: 
I. Those who have not learned that 

^}^V^^^^ there is such a thing as a fatal mush- 
authoritles on . ^ . , , . , 

< mushrooms" room; 2. The provmcial authority who 

can " tell a mushroom " by a number of 
his so-called infallible " tests " or " proofs." There is a 
large third class to whose conservative caution is to 
be referred the prevalent arbitrary distinction be- 
tween " toadstool " and " mushroom," ardent disciples 
of old Tertullian, who believed in regard to toadstools 
that " For every different hue they display there is 
a pain to correspond to it, and just so many modes 



1 8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of death as there are distinct species," and whose 
obstinate dogma, " There is only one mushroom, all 
the rest are toadstools," has doubtless spared them 
an occasional untimely grave, for few of this class, 
from their very conservatism, ever fall victims to the 
" toadstool" 

And what a self-complacent, patronizing, solicitous 
character this rustic mushroom oracle is! Go where 
you will in the rural districts and you are sure of 
him, or perhaps her  usually a conspicuous figure 
in the neighborhood, the village blacksmith, perhaps, 
or the simpler "Old Aunt Huldy." Their father 
and "granther" before them "knew how to tell a 
mushroom," and this enviable knowledge has been 
their particular inheritance. 

How well we more special students of the fungus 
know him ! and how he wins our tender regard with 
his keen solicitude for our well-being ! We meet him 
everywhere in our travels, and always with the same 
old story ! We emerge from the wood, perhaps, with 
our basket brimful of our particular fungus tidbits, 
topped off with specimens of red Russula and Bole- 
tus, and chance to pass him on the road or in the 
meadow. He scans the basket curiously as he passes 
us. He has perhaps heard rumors afloat that "there's 
a city chap in town who is tempting Providence with 
his foolin' with tudstools ;" and with genuine solici- 
tude and superior condescension and awe, all be- 
trayed in his countenance, he must needs pause in 
his walk to relieve his mind in our behalf. I recall 
one characteristic episode, of which the above is the 
prelude. 



INTRODUCTION 1 9 

" Ye ain't a-goin' to eat them, air ye ?" he asks, anx- 
iously, by way of introduction. 

" I am, most certainly," I respond ; " that is, if I 

can get my good farmer's wife to cook them without 

corning them and inundating them in 

Rustic lemon-juice." 

discrimination " Waal, then. Til say good-bye to ye," 

he responds, with emphasis. " Why, 

don't ye know them's tudstools, 'n' they'll kill ye as 

sartin 2,^ pizen? I wonder they ain't fetched ye afore 

this. You never larned tew tell mushrooms. My 

father et 'em all his life, and so hev I, 'n' I k7iow 

'em. Come up into my garden yender 'n' I'll show 

ye haow to tell the reel mushroom. There's a lot 

of 'em thar in the hot-bed naow. Come along. I'll 

give ye a mess on 'em if ye'll only throw them pizen 

things away." 

" And how do you know that those in your garden 
are real mushrooms.^" I inquire. 

" Why, they ain't anything like Ihem o' yourn. 
They're pink and black underneath, and peel up from 
the edge." 

" How many kinds of mushrooms are there, do you 
suppose ?" I ask. 

" They's only the one kind ; all the others is tud- 
stools and pizen. It's easy to tell the reel mushroom. 
Come up and I'll show ye. Don't eat them things, I 
beg on ye ! I vaow they'll kill ye !" 

At this point he catches a glimpse of a Shaggy- 
mane mushroom, which comes to light as I tenderly 
fondle the specimens, and which is evidently recog- 
nized as an acquaintance. 



20 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" What !" he exclaims, in pale alarm. " Ye aint 
goin' t' eat them too?'' 

" Oh yes I am, this very evening," I respond. " I 
think ril try them/r^/." 

" Why, man, yure crazy ! You don't know nothin' 

about *em. Td as soon think o' eatin' pizen outright. 

Them's what we call black- slime tud- 

A rustic stools. They come up out o' manure. 

authority IVe seen my muck -heap in my barn- 
yard covered with the nasty things time 
'n' agin. They look nice 'n' white naow, but they 
rot into the onsiteliest black mess ye ever see. I 
know wut I'm sayin'. Ye can't tell me nothin' 'baout 
them tudstools ! They keep comin' up along my 
barn-fence all thro' the fall  bushels of 'em." 

" Well, my good friend, it's a great pity, then, that 
you have not learned something about toadstools as 
well as mushrooms, for you might have saved many 
a butcher's bill, and may in the future if you will 
only take my word that this much-abused specimen 
is as truly a mushroom as your pink-gilled peeler, 
and to my mind far more delicious." 

" What ! Do you mean to tell me thet you have 
reely eate7t 'em /" 

"Yes, indeed; often. Why, just look at its clean, 
shaggy cap, its creamy white or pink gills under- 
neath; take a sniff of its pleasant aroma; and here! 
just taste a little piece  it's as sweet as a nut!" I 
conclude, offering him the white morsel. 

" Not much 1 I'll make my will first, thank'ee ! 
You let me see ye eat a mess of 'em, and if the coro- 
ner don't get ye, p'r'aps I'll try on't." 



INTRODUCTION 21 



Experiences similar to this one are frequent in the 
career of every mycophagist, and serve to illustrate 
the pity and solicitude which he awakens among his 
fellow-mortals, as well as to emphasize 
^Toadstool" the prevalent superstitions regarding 
prejudice the comparative virtues of the mush- 
room and toadstool  a prejudice which, 
by-the-way, in the absence of available popular liter- 
ature on the subject, and the actual dangers which 
encompass their popular distinction, is a most benef- 
icent public safeguard. 

The mushroom which "he can tell" is generally 
the Agaricus ca^npestris^ or one of its several vari- 
eties; and knowing this alone, and 
""""^"anV^^ tempted by no other, this sort of vil- 
superstitions lage Oracle escapes the fate which of- 
ten awaits another class, who are not 
thus conservative, and who extend their definition of 
mushroom (a word supposed to be synonymous with 
"edible "), and this mainly through the indorsement 
of certain so-called infallible tests handed down to 
them from their forefathers, and by which the escu- 
lent varieties may be distinguished from the poison- 
ous. By these so-called "tests" or "proofs" the 
identification of certain species is gradually acquired. 
The rural fungus epicure now " knows them by 
sight," or perhaps has received his information sec- 
ond-hand, and makes his selection without hesitation, 
with what success may be judged from the incident 
in my own experience already noted  one which, 
knowing as I did the frequency and confidence with 
which my country friend sampled the fungi at his 



22 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

table, filled me with consternation and anxiety for his 
future. 

" How, then, shall we distinguish a mushroom from 
a toadstool ?" 

There is no way of distinguishing them, for they 
are the same. 

" How, then, shall we know a poisonous toadstool 
from a harmless one V the reader hopelessly exclaims. 

This discrimination is by no means as difficult as 
is popularly supposed, but in the first place, the stu- 
dent must entirely rid himself of all preconceived 
notions and traditions, such as the following almost 
world-wide " tests," many of which are easily demon- 
strated to be worse than worthless, and have doubt- 
less frequently led to an untimely funeral. Some 
of these are merely local, and in widely separated 
districts are supplanted by others equally arbitrary 
and absurd, while many of them are as old as history. 



WORTHLESS TRADITIONAL TESTS FOR THE DISCRIMINA- 
TION OF POISONOUS AND EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

FAVORABLE SIGNS 

1. Pleasant taste and odor. 

2. Peeling of the skin of the cap from rim to centre. 

3. Pink gills, turning brown in older specimens. 

4. The stem easily pulled out of the cap and inserted in it 
like a parasol handle. 

5. Solid stems. 

6. Must be gathered in the morning. 

7. "Any fungus having a pleasant taste and odor, being found 
similarly agreeable after being plainly broiled without the least 
seasoning, is perfectly safe." 



INTRODUCTION 23 

UNFAVORABLE SIGNS 

8. Boiling with a " silver spoon," the staining of the silver in- 
dicating danger. 

9. Change of color in the fracture of the fresh mushroom. 
10 Slimy or sticky on the top. 

11. Having the stems at their sides. 

12. Growing in clusters. 

13. Found in dark, damp places. 

14. Growing on wood, decayed logs, or stumps. 

15. Growing on or near manure. 

16. Having bright colors. 

17. Containing milky juice. 

18. Having the gill plates of even length. 

19. Melting into black fluid. 

20. Biting the tongue or having a bitter or nauseating taste. 

21. Changing color by immersion in salt-water, or upon being 
dusted with salt. 

These present but a selection of the more preva- 
lent notions. Taken in toto, they would prove entirely 
safe, as they would practically exclude every species 
of mushroom or toadstool that grows. But as a rule 
the village oracle bases his infallibility upon two or 
three of the above " rules," and inasmuch as the entire 
list absolutely omits the only one test by which dan- 
ger is to be avoided, it is a seven-days* wonder that 
the grewsome toadstool epitaph is not more frequent. 
I once knew an aged dame who was accepted as a 
village oracle on this as well as other topics, such 
as divining, palmistry, and fortune-tell- 
ing, and who ate and dispensed toad- 
oriibove tests stools on a few of the above rules. 
Strange to say, she lived to a good old 
age, and no increased mortality is credited to her 
memory as a result of her generosity. 



Absolute 
worthlessness 



24 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

How are these popular notions sustained by the 
facts? Let us analyze them seriatim and confront 
each with its refutation, the better to show their en- 
tire untrustworthiness. 



POPULAR TESTS REFUTED 

Pleasant taste and odor (i) is a conspicuous feat- 
ure in the regular "mushroom "(-^^^xr/a/j-^^w/^^/r/j), 
and most other edible fungi, but as a 

Worthless criterion for safety it is a mockery. 

popular tests The deadly Agartais amaiiita, already 
mentioned, has an inviting odor and to 
most people a pleasant taste when raw, and being 
cooked and eaten gives no token of its fatal resources 
until from six to twelve hours after, when its unfort- 
unate victim is past hope. (See p. 68.) 

The ready peeling of the skin (2) is one of the most 
widely prevalent proofs of probation, and is often 
considered a stifficient test ; yet the Amanita will be 
found to peel with a degree of accommodation which 
would thus at once settle its claims as a " mushroom." 
Indeed, a large number of species, including several 
poisonous kinds, will peel as perfectly as the Cam- 
pestris. 

T/ie pink gills tnrni7tg brown (3) is a marked char- 
acteristic of the " mushroom " {A. campestris, Plate 5), 
and, being a rare tint among the fungus tribe, is really 
one of the most valuable of the tests, especially as it 
is limited by rules affecting other pink-gilled species. 

The stem being easily pulled otit of the cap (4) ap- 



INTRODUCTION 2$ 

plies to several edible species, but equally to the poi- 
sonous. 

The notion that eciid/e mtishrooms have solid stems 
(5) would be a very unsafe talisman for us to take 
to the woods in our search for fungus- 
Worthless food. Many poisonous species are thus 
iK>pular tests solid  the emetic Russula, for example 
 while the alleged importance of the 
vtorning specime^is (6) is without the slightest foun- 
dation. 

The passage quoted here (7), or a statement to the 
same effect, was quite widely circulated in the news- 
papers a dozen or more years ago, in an article which 
bore all the indications of authoritative utterance, 
the assumption being that the poisonous mushroom 
would invariably give some forbidding token to the 
senses by which it might be discriminated. 

Woe to the fungus epicure who should sample his 
mushrooms and toadstools on such a criterion as this, 
as the most fatal of all mtishrooms, the Amanita ver- 
nits, w^ould fulfil all these requisites. 

The discoloration of silver (8) is a test as old as 
Pliny at least, a world-wide popular touchstone for the 
detection of deleterious fungi, but useful only in the 
fact that it will often exclude a poison not contem- 
plated in the discrimination. On this point, especially 
as it affords opportunity to emphasize a common dis- 
appointment of the mushroom-eater, I quote from a 
recent work by Julius A. Palmer (see Bibliography, 
No. 3): " Mushrooms decay very rapidly. In a short 
time a fair, solid fungus becomes a mass of mag- 
gots which eat its tissue until its substance is honey- 



26 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

combed ; these cells, on a warm day, are charged with 

the vapors of decomposition. Now you put such 

mushrooms as these (and I have seen 

Worthless just such on the markets of Boston and 
popular tests London) over the fire. In boiling, sul- 
phuretted hydrogen or other noxious 
gases are liberated ; you stir with a bright spoon and 
it is discolored ; proud of your test, you throw away 
your stew. Now this is right, but if from this you 
conclude that all fungus which discolors silver is poi- 
sonous and that which leaves it bright is esculent, you 
are in dangerous error. It is the same with fish at 
sea. Tradition says that you must fry a piece of sil- 
ver with them and throw them away if it discolors. 
Certainly the experiment does no harm, and shows a 
decomposition in both cases which might have been 
detected without the charm." Opposed to this so- 
called talisman, how grim is the fact that the deadli- 
est of all mushrooms, the Amanita, in its fresh condi- 
tion, has no effect upon silver. 

The change of color in fracture (9) has long been 
a ban to the fungus as food. But this would ex- 
clude several very delicious species, which turn blu- 
ish, greenish, and red when broken  viz.. Boletus sub- 
tomentosus (Plate 22), Boletus strobilaceus (Plate 23), 
and Lactarius (Plate 18). 

The ''toadstools'' with ''sticky tops'' thus discrimi- 
nated against (10) include a number of esculent spe- 
cies, Boleti and Russulae, and others, as do also the 
varieties with side-stems (11)  viz., Agaricus ulma- 
rius (Plate 15), Fistulina hepatica (Plate 25), Agaricus 
ostreatus (Plate 14), etc. 



INTRODUCTION 27 

The clustered ftingi (\2) have long been included in 
the black-list without reason, as witness the following 
esteemed esculent species: The Shag- 
Worthless gy-mane (Plate i6), Coprinus atrameiu 
popular tests tarius (Plate 17), Oyster mushroom 
(Plate 14), Elm mushroom (Plate 15), 
Puff-balls (Plate 34), and Champignon (Plate 8). 

To exclude all fungi which grow in dark, damp 
places (13) is a singular inconsistency, as in some 
localities this would eliminate the very one species of 
" mushroom " admittedly eatable by popular favor. 
In many countries these are regularly cultivated for 
market in dark, damp, subterranean caverns or in 
cellars. Indeed, the " dark, damp place " would appear 
to be the ideal habitat of this the " only mushroom !" 
Equally absurd is the discrimination against those 
growing on wood (14), which again deprives us of 
the delicious Hydnum (Plate 27), the Beefsteak (Plate 
25), Oyster mushroom (Plate 14), Elm mushroom 
(Plate 15), and many others, including Puff-balls 
(Plate 34). If we exclude those growing upon or 
fiear manure (15), we shall be obliged to omit the 
Coprinus group (Plates 16 and 17), and often the 
" reel mushroom " as well. 

Among the bright-colored species (16), it is true, 
are many dangerous individuals, as, for instance, the 
deadly Fly Amanita of Plate 4, and the emetic 
Russula (Plate 13), but on this fiat we should have to 
reject the other brilliant esculent Russulae (Plates 1 1 
and 12), the brilliant yellow Chantarelle (Plate 19), 
the Lac tarius (Plate 18), and various other equally 
palatable and wholesome species. 



28 KDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The objection against milky mushrooms (17) would 

serve to exclude the poisonous species of Lactarius, 

but would thus include at least two of 

Worthless the delicious species of the group, Z. 
popular tests deliciostis, \\\\}Ci orange milk (Plate 18), 
and Z. piperaiuSy another species with 
white milk not figured in this volume. 

The group of Russulae, most of which are esculent, 
is notable for t\\Q\v gills 0/ even length (18), though 
not all the species are thus characterized. This 
discrimination, however, especially applies to the 
Shaggy-mane (Plate 16), which is conspicuously even- 
gilled, and is a decided delicacy. 

This species, together with its congener, the edible 
Coprinus alramenfariiis (Plate 17), are notorious for 
their melting into black fluid {\()), which is thus of no 
significance as a test, although the mushrooms are not 
supposed to be eaten in this stage of deliquescence. 

A fungus which bites the tojigue (20) when tasted 
would naturally be excluded from our mushroom diet, 
as would also, of course, those of a bitter or nauseat- 
ing taste ; but several species, notably the Lactarius 
piperatus, as its name implies, is very hot and peppery 
when raw  a characteristic which disappears in cook- 
ing, after which it is perfectly esculent. The same 
applies in a scarcely less degree to the Agariciis 
fnelleus, and less so to the Hydnuvi repa7idu7n (Plate 
27). and other mushrooms. But the poisonous R7iS' 
sula emetica (Plate 13) gives this same hot, warning 
tang, and this rule (17) would at least thus exclude 
the harmful species, and is thus contributive to poi> 
ular safetv. 



INTRODUCTION 29 

The salt test (21), with that of the silver charm, is 
also a relic of the dim past, but is absolutely useless 
as a touchstone. Many poisonous spe- 
Worthiess cies, notably the Amanita, fail to answer 
popular tests to it. All authorities agree, however, 
that the addition of salt in cooking, or 
the preparatory soaking of specimens in brine, has a 
tendency to render poisonous species innocuous. In- 
deed, it is claimed that in Russia and elsewhere on 
the Continent many admittedly poisonous species, 
even the deadly Fly Amanita, is habitually eaten sub- 
sequent to this semi-corning process, by which the 
poisonous chemical principle is neutralized. 

Among this long list, and many other equally 

arbitrary and ignorant prejudicial traditions, many 

of which date back to the earliest 

Omission times, it is indeed astonishing to note 

of the only ' . ^ 

true test the conspicuous absence of the one and 

only valuable sign by which the fatal 
species could be unmistakably determined  a symbol 
which was reserved for botanical science to discover: 
the presence of the " ctip " in the Amanita, which is 
pointedly emphasized in my Frontispiece, and the im- 
portance of which as a botanical and cautionary dis- 
tinction is considered at more length in the following 
chapter. 

It is well to consider for a moment what is im- 
plied in 

"A POISONOUS MUSHROOxM" 

A fungus may be poisonous in various ways : 
I. A distinct and certain deadly poison. 



30 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. The cause of violent digestive or other func- 
tional disturbance, but not necessarily fatal. 

3. The occasion of more or less serious physical 
derangement through mere indigestibility. 

4. Productive of similar disorders through the em- 
ployment of decayed or wormy specimens of perfectly 
esculent species. 

5. These same esculent species, even in their fresh 
condition, may become highly noxious by contact or 
confinement with specimens of the Amanita by the 
absorption of its volatile poison, as further described 
on p. 69. 

And lastly comes the question of idiosyncrasy, a 
consideration which is of course not taken into ac- 
count in our recommendation of cer- 
Concerning tain well-established food varieties. 
idiosyncrasy " One man's food another man's poi- 
son." The scent of the rose is some- 
times a serious affliction, and even the delicious straw- 
berry has repeatedly proven a poison. Even the 
mos-t wholesome mushroom will occasionally require 
to be discriminated against, as certain 
Decaying individuals find it necessary to exclude 
mushrooms cabbage, milk, onions, and other com- 
mon food from their diet. When we 
reflect, moreover, that in its essential chemical affin- 
ities the fungus simulates animal flesh, and many 
of the larger and more solid varieties 
Fresh are similarly subject to speedy decom- 
specimens position, it is obviously important that 
all fungi procured for the table should 
be collected iu their printe^ a^td prepared and served as 



INTRODUCTION 3 1 

quickly as possible. More than one case of supposed 
mushroom poisoning could be directly traced to care- 
lessness in this regard, when the species themselves, 
in their proper condition, had been perfectly whole- 
some. 

There can be no general rule laid down for the 

discrimination of an edible fu7ig7is. Each must be 

learned as a species, or at least famil- 

No general Jarized as a kind, even as we learn to 

rule for 
identification recognize certain flowers, trees, or birds. 

Within a certain range this discrim- 
ination is practised by the merest child. How are 
the robin, the chippy, and the swallow recognized, or 
the red clover, and white clover, and yellow clover? 
Even in the instances of species which bear a very 
close outward similarity, how simple, after all, does 
the distinction become. Here, for in- 

Simpie stance, is the wild-lettuce, and its mimic, 
botanical . . 

discrimination the mulgedium, growing side by side  

to ninety-nine out of a hundred observ- 
ers absolutely alike, and apparently the same species. 
But how readily are they distinguished, I will not say 
by the botanist merely, but by any one who will take 
the small pains of contrasting their specific botanical 
characters  perfectly infallible, no matter how vari- 
ous the masquerade of their foliage. The lettuce has 
yellow blossoms, and a seed prolonged into a long 
beak, to whose tip the feathery pappus is attached. 
The mulgedium has dull bluish flowers, and its pap- 
pus is attached to the seed by a hardly perceptible 
elongation. As with the birds and wild-flowers, so 
with the fungi: we must learn them as species, even 



32 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as we learn to distinguish the difference between the 
trefoil of the clover and that of the wood -sorrel, or 
between the innocuous wild-carrot and the poison- 
hemlock, the harmless stag-horn sumach and its 
venomous congener, the Rhus venenata. There are 
parallel outward resemblances between esculent and 
poisonous fungi, but each possesses otherwise its 
own special features by which it may be identified  
variations of gills, pores, spores, taste, odor, color, 
juice, consistency of pulp, method of decay, etc. 

It must not be presumed that the list of edible 
species just cited from the catalogue of Dr. Curtis 
includes all the esculents among the fungi. Dr. 
Harkness has discovered and classified many others. 
Mr. Palmer and Prof. Charles Peck are never at a 
loss for their " mess of mushrooms " among their list 
of nearly a hundred species, while Mr. Charles Mcll- 
vaine, whose name, so far as its practical authority 
is concerned, should appear more prominently in my 
bibliographical list, but who has not yet incor- 
porated his many mycological essays in book form, 
writes me that he has tested gastronomically a host 
of species, and has found over three hundred to be 
edible, or at least harmless. It may be said that the 
probabilities would include a large majority of the 
thousand species in the same category. But this is 
a matter which, in the absence of absolute knowl- 
edge, is mere conjecture. 

Of the forty-odd species which the writer enjoys 
with more or less frequency at his table, he is satis- 
fied that he can select at least thirty which possess 
such distinct and strongly marked characters of form. 



INTRODUCTION 33 

structure, and other special qualities as to enable 
them, by the aid of careful portraiture and brief de- 
scription, to be easily recognized, even by a tyro. 

As previously emphasized, the present work does 
not aim to be complete, nor does it contemplate a 
practical utility beyond its specific recommendations, 
nor will the author assume any responsibility for the 
hazard which shall exceed its restricted list of species. 
On general principles, however, considering the 
proneness of humanity towards the acquisition of for- 
bidden fruit, and reasoning from my 
Humanity ^^^ actual experience, and that of 
forbidden fruit many Others to whom this fascinating 
hobby of epicurean fungology has be- 
come a growing passion, it may almost be assumed 
that the fungus appetite with many of my readers 
will increase by what it feeds on, and the sufficiency 
herewith offered will scarcely suffice. Like Oliver 
Twist, they must needs have more. The glory of a 
new acquisition to the fungus menu, and emulation 
of other rival tyro mycophagists, will doubtless lead 
many enthusiasts to more or less hazardous experi 
ment among the legion of the unknown species. 
This logical tendency, then, must be met ere my 
book can safely and conscientiously be launched 
upon its career, to which purpose I would append 
the following condensed 

RULES FOR THE VENTURESOME 

I. Avoid every mushroom having a cup, or suggest 
tion of such, at base (see Frontispiece, and Plates 3 
and 4) ; the distinctly fatal poisons are thus excluded. 



34 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. Exclude those having an unpleasant odor, a 
peppery, bitter, or other unpalatable flavor, or tough 
consistency. 

3. Exclude those infested with worms, or in ad- 
vanced age or decay. 

4. In testing others which will pass the above pro- 
bation let the specimen be ke/>^ by itself, not in con- 
tact with or enclosed in the same basket with other 
species, for reasons given on page 69. 

Begin by a mere nibble, the size of a pea, and gen- 
tle mastication, being careful to swallow no saliva, and 
finally expelling all from the mouth. 
Testing If no noticeable results follow, the next 

new species trial, with the interval of a day, with 
the same quantity may permit of a 
swallow of a little of the juice, the fragments of the 
fungus expelled as before. 

No unpleasantness following for twenty-four hours, 
the third trial may permit of a similar entire fragment 
being swallowed, all of these experiments to be made 
on "an empty stomach." If this introduction of the 
actual substance of the fungus into the stomach is 
superseded by no disturbance in twenty-four hours, a 
larger piece, the size of a hazel-nut, may be attempted, 
and thus the amount gradually increased day by day 
until the demonstration of edibility, or at least harm- 
lessness, is complete, and the species thus admitted 
into the " safe " list. By following this method with 
the utmost caution the experimenter can at best suffer 
but a slight temporary indisposition as the result of 
his hardihood, in the event of a noisome species hav- 



INTRODUCTION 35 

ing been encountered, and will at least thus have the 
satisfaction of discovery of an enemy if not a friend. 

It may be said that any mushroom, omitting the 
Amanita, which is pleasant to the taste and other- 
wise agreeable as to odor and texture when raw, is 
probably harmless, and may safely be thus vefitured 
on with a view of establishing its edibility. A prom- 
inent authority on our edible mush- 
rir. riciivaine's rooms, already mentioned, applies this 
general rule rule to all the Agarics with confidence. 
" This rule may be established," he 
says: "All Agarics  excepting the Amanitce  mild 
to the taste when raw, if they commend themselves 
in other ways, are edible." This claim is borne out 
in his experience, with the result, already told, that 
he now numbers over one hundred species among 
his habitual edible list out of the three hundred 
which he has actually found by personal test to be 
edible or harmless. " So numerous are toadstools," 
he continues, "and so well does a study of them 
define their habits and habitats, that the writer never 
fails upon any day from^ April to December to find 
ample supply of healthy, nutritious, delicate toadstools 
for himself a7td family'' The italicized portion is 
my own, as I would thus emphasize the similar pos- 
sibilities amply afforded even in the present con- 
densed list of about thirty varieties herein described. 
In gathering mushrooms one should be supplied 
with a sharp knife. The mushroom should be care- 
fully cut off an inch or so below the cap, or at least 
sufficiently far above the ground to escape all signs 
of dirt on the stem. They should then be laid gills 



36 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

upward in their receptacle, and it is well to have a 

special basket, arranged with one or two removable 

bottoms or horizontal partitions, w^hich 

Hint* to ^ ^j.^ j^gp^ jj^ place by upright props 

gatherers within, thus relieving the lower layers 
of mushrooms from the weight of those 
above them. Such a basket is almost indispensable. 
Before preparing mushrooms for the table, the 
specimens should be carefully scrutinized for a class 
of fungus specialists which we have 
Insecu j^Q^ taken into account, and which have 
mushrooms probably anticipated us. The mush- 
room is proverbial for its rapid de- 
velopment, but nature has not allowed it thus to 
escape the usual penalties of lush vegetation, as wit- 
ness this swarming, squirming host, minute grubs, 
which occasionally honey-comb or hollow its entire 
substance ere it has reached its prime; indeed, in- 
many cases, even before it has fully expanded or 
even protruded above ground. 

Like the carrion-flies, the bees, and wasps, which in 
early times were believed to be of spontaneous origin 
 flies being generated from putrefac- 
History of tion, bees from dead bulls, and the mar- 
fungus insects tial wasps from defunct "war-horses" 
 these fungus swarms which so speed- 
ily reduce a fair specimen of a mushroom to a melt- 
ing loathsome mass, were also supposed to be the 
natural progeny of the "poisonous toadstool." But 
science has solved the riddle of their mysterious om- 
nipresence among the fungi, each particular swarm 
of grubs being the witness of a former visit of a ma- 



INTRODUCTION 37 

ternal parent insect, which has sought the budding 

fungus in its haunts often before it has fully revealed 

itself to human gaze, and implanted 

History of within its substance her hundred or 

fungus insects more eggs. To the uneducated eye 

these larvae all appear similar, but the 

specialist in entomology readily distinguishes between 

them as the young of this or that species of fly, gnat, 

or beetle. 

As an illustration of the assiduity with which the 
history of these tiiiy scavenger insects has been follow- 
ed by science, I may mention that in the gnat group 
alone over seven hundred species have been discov- 
ered and scientifically described, many of them re- 
quiring a powerful magnifier to reveal their identities. 

Specimens of infected or decaying mushrooms pre- 
served within a tightly closed box  and, we would 
suggest, duly quarantined  will at length reveal the 
imago forms of the voracious larvae: generally a swarm 
of tiny gnats or flies, with an occasional sprinkling 
of small glossy black beetles, or perhaps a beautiful 
indigo -blue insect half an inch in length, of most 
nervous habit, and possessed of a long and very ac- 
tive tail. This insect is an example of the curious 
group of rove-beetles  staphylinus  a family of insect 
scavengers, many of whose species depend upon the 
fungi for subsistence. 

Even the large woody growth known as " punk " 
or " touchwood," so frequently seen upon decaying 
trunks, is not spared. A huge specimen in my keep- 
ing was literally reduced to dust by a single species 
of beetle. 



38 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Considering the prevalence of these fungus hosts, 

it is well in all mushrooms to take the precaution 

of making a vertical section through 

A wise stem and cap, excluding such speci- 

precaution mens as are conspicuously monopo- 
lized, and not being too critical of the 
rest, for the over - fastidious gourmet will often 
thus have little to show for his morning walk. I 
have gathered a hundred specimens of fungi in 
one stroll, perhaps not a quarter of which, upon 
careful scrutiny, though fair of exterior, would be 
fit for the table. The fungus - hunter /^r excellence 
has usually been there before us and left his mark 
(see page 135)  a mere fine brown streak or tunnel, 
perhaps, winding through the pulp or stem, where 
his minute fungoid identity is even yet secreted. 
But we bigger fungus -eaters gradually learn to ac- 
cept him  if not too outrageously promiscuous  
as a natural part and parcel of our Hachis aux 
Champignons, or our simple mushrooms on toast, 
even as we wink at the similar lively accessories 
which sophisticate our delectable raisins, prunes, and 
figs, to say nothing of prime old Rochefort ! 

MUSHROOM POISONING 

In conclusion, lest these pages, in spite of the im- 
press of caution with which they are weighted, should 
lead to discomfiture, distress, or more serious results 
among their more careless readers, it is well to devote 
a few lines to directions for medical treatment where 
such should seem to be required. To this end I 
quote a passage from an article in the Therapeutic 



INTRODUCTION 39 

Gazette of May, 1893, from the pen of Mr. Mcllvaine, 
whose many years' experience with gastronomic fun- 
gi entitles his words to careful consideration: 

" The physician called upon to treat a case of toad- 
stool poisoning need not wait to query after the va- 
riety eaten ; he need not wish to see a 
'^^^d**^ sample. His first endeavor should be 

treatment to ascertain the exact time elapsing be- 
tween the eating of the toadstools and 
the first feeling of discomfort. If this is within four 
or five hours one of the minor poisons is at work, and 
rapid relief must be given by the administration of 
an emetic, followed by one or two moderate doses of 
sweet-oil and whiskey, in equal parts. Vinegar is ef- 
fective as a substitute for sweet-oil. If from eight to 
twelve hours have elapsed, the physician may rest as- 
sured that amanitine is present, and should adminis- 
ter one-sixtieth of a grain of atropine at once." 

This atropine is intended to be injected hypoder- 
mically, and the treatment repeated every half -hour 
until one-twentieth of a grain has been given, or the 
patient's life saved. 

Further consideration of the Amanita and its 
deadly poison and antidote, with details as to treat- 
ment in a notable case, will be reserved for the fol- 
lowing chapter. 

The colored plates in the volume were prepared 
from pencil drawings tinted in water-color, many of 
them direct from nature, several dating back fifteen 
years, and many of them over twenty years, for their 
original sketch. The colors as presented indicate 
those of typical individuals of the various species, and 



40 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

each, in addition to the extended description in the 
text of the volume, is faced by a condensed description 
for ready reference, the usual troublesome necessity 
of turning the pages being thus avoided. 

In each plate dimension marks are shown which 
indicate the expansion of the pileus or cap of the 
fungus in an ideal specimen. 



In the preparation of this work, acknowledgments 

are specially due to Messrs. Julius A. Palmer and 

Charles Mcllvaine for the privilege of 

Acknowledg- liberal quotations from their published 

ments works, especially with reference to the 

poisonous fungi. The volume is also 

further indebted for occasional extracts from the 

standard works of Prof. Chas. Peck, Mrs. T. J. Hus- 

sey. Rev. Dr. C. D. Badham, Rev. Dr. M. C. Cooke, 

Rev. J. M. Berkeley, Worthington Smith, and Rev. 

M. A. Curtis, all of whose volumes and various other 

contributions on the special subject of mycophagy 

are included in my bibliography on a later page. 

W. Hamilton Gibson 

October I, 1894 WASHINGTON, Conn. 



^ . 
c^he ^eddlyB^Jmanita 

L. 







^'*/4jl prfS^ HE frequency of this terrible foe in all 

'*/_ jL^T' ^"^ woods, and the ever- recurring fa- 

> i^^^S^ ^ talities which are continually traced to 

its seductive treachery (some twenty -five 

deaths having been recorded in the public 

journals during the summer of 1893 alone), render 

it important that its teeth should be drawn, and its 

portrait placarded and popularly familiarized as an 

archenemy of mankind. 

As we have seen, from every superficial standpoint, 
this species is self-commendatory. It is, without 
doubt, in comeliness, symmetry, and 
A whited Structure, the ideal of all our mush- 
sepulchre rooms, as it is, indeed, the botanical 
type of the tribe Agaricus, as well as 
its most notorious genus. Since the time of that 
carousing young lunatic Nero, who, doubtless, was 
wont to make merry with its "convenient poison," 
upon one occasion, it is recorded by Pliny, to the 
presumably amusing extinction of the entire guests 
of a banquet, together with the prefect of the guard 
and a small host of tribunes and centurions, the 
Amanita has claimed an army of victims. 

While giving no superficial token of its dangerous 



44 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

character to the casual observer, the Amanita, as a 
genus and a species, is nevertheless easily identified, 
if the mushroom collector will for the moment con- 
sider it from the botanical rather than 
id^*tified ^^ sensuous or gustatorial standpoint. 
t>otanically The deadly Amanita need no longer 

impose upon the fastidious feaster in 
the guise of the dainty "legume" of his menu, or as 
a contaminating, fatal ingredient in the otherwise 
wholesome ragout. 

In Plate 3 I have presented the reprobate Amanita 
vernus in its protean progressive proportions from in- 
fancy to maturity. This is especially 
Amanita desirable, in that the fungus is equally 
vernuA dangerous as an infant, and also be- 
cause the development of its growth 
specially emphasizes botanically the one important 
structural character by which the species or genus 
may be easily distinguished. Let us, then, consider 
the specimen as a type of the tribe Agaricus (gilled 
mushroom, see p. 79), genus Amanita. 

Year after year we are sure of finding this species, 
or others of the genus, especially in the spring and 
summer, its favorite haunt being the w^oods. Its 
spores, like other mushrooms, are shed upon the 
ground from the white gills beneath, as described in 
our chapter on " Spore-prints," or wafted to the ends 
of the earth on the breeze, and eventually, upon hav- 
ing found a suitable habitat, vegetate in the form of 
webby, white, mould-like growth  mycelium  which 
threads through the dead leaves, the earth, or decaying 
wood. This running growth is botanically considered 



I 

< 
n 

w 
r 



> 

o 

w 

> 

73 



W 

o 
PI 

H 

O 
O 



CO 

7i 




THE DEADLY AMANITA 47 

as the true fungus, the final mushroom being the 
fruit, whose function is the dissemination of the 
spores. After a rain, or when the conditions are 
otherwise suitable, a certain point among this webby 
tangle beneath the ground becomes 
Vegetation suddenly quickened into astonishing 
of an Agaric cell-making energy, and a small round- 
ed nodule begins to form, which con- 
tinues to develop with great rapidity (Plate 2). In a 
few hours more it has pushed its head above ground, 
and now appears like an egg, as at A, Plate 3. The 
successive stages in its development are clearly in- 
dicated in the drawings. Each represents an interval 
of an hour or two, or more, the most suggestive and 
important feature being the outer envelope, or volva, 
which encloses the actual mushroom  at first com- 
pletely, then in a ruptured condition, until in the ma- 
ture growth the only vestige of it which appears 
above ground are the few shreds generally, though 
not always, to be seen on the top of the cap. The 
most importa7it character of this deadly Amanita is, 
therefore, apparently with almost artful 
The danger malice prepense, often cmtcealed from 
signal our view in the mature specimen, the 
only remnant of the original outer sack 
being the cup or socket about the base of the stem, 
which is generally hidden under ground, and usually 
there remains after we pluck the specimen. 

This "poison-cup" may be taken as the cautionary 
symbol of the genus Amanita, common to all the spe- 
cies. A7ty mushroom or toadstool, therefore, whose 
stem is thus set in a socket, or which has any suggestio7t 



48 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of stich a socket^ should be labelled ^''poison "; for, though 
some of the species having this cup are edible, from 
the popular point of view, it is wiser and certainly 
safer to condemn the entire group. 
The But the cup must be sought for. We 

poison-cup shall thus at least avoid the possible 
danger of a fatal termination to our 
amateur experiments in gustatory mycology; for, 
while various other mushrooms might, and do, in- 
duce even serious illness through digestive disturb- 
ance, and secondary, possibly fatal, complications, 
the Amanita group are now conceded to be the only 
fungi which contain a positive, active poisonous prin- 
ciple whose certain logical consequence is death. 

Another structural feature of the Amanita is shown 
in the illustration, but has been omitted from the 
above consideration to avoid confusion. 
The ^vefl" This is the "veil " which, in the young 
or shroud mushroom, originally connected the 
edge of the cap, or pileus, with the 
stem, and whose gradual rupture necessarily follows 
the expansion of the cap, until a mere frill or ring 
is left about the stem at the original point of contact. 
But this feature is a frequent character in many 
edible mushrooms, as witness the several examples in 
the edible species of our plates, and therefore of no 
dangerous significance per se, being merely a mem- 
brane which protects the growing gills. 

Nor are the other features, the remnants of the 
volva on the summit of the cap, to be considered of 
primary importance from the popular point of view, 
for the reason  firstly, that these fragments, while con- 



D 

< 
w 

5 

w 
H 
O 






w 

2! 

c 



^iim. 




THE DEADLY AMANITA 5 1 

spicuous and constant in Amanita muscarius (Plate 
4), are not thus permanent in several other species 
of Amanitas, notably the white -satin -capped Ama- 
nita vernus, Amanita phalloides^ and 
Scales and Amanita CcBsarea^ in which the frag- 
scurfy spots nients are deciduous ; and, secondly, 
because the same general effect of 
these warty scales is so clearly imitated in other 
mushrooms which are distinctly edible, as in exam- 
ples Plate 10 and Plate i6. It is to the volva or 
cup^ then, that we must devote our special attention 
as the only safe and constant character. And this 
leads me to the prominent and necessary considera- 
tion of another common species of Amanita, men- 
tioned above, in which even this cup is more or less 
obscure. 

THE POISONOUS FLY- MUSHROOM 
Agaricus {Amanita) muscarius 

This, one of the most strikingly beautiful of our 
toadstools, is figured in Plate 4. Its brilliant cap of 
yellow, orange, or even scarlet, studded with white 
or grayish raised spots, can hardly be 
A deceptive unfamiliar to even the least observant 
Amanita country walker. Its favorite habitat is 
the woods, and, in the writer's experi- 
ence especially, beneath hemlocks and poplars, where 
he has seen this species year after year in whole 
companies, and in all stages shown in the plate at 
the same time, from the globular young specimen 
almost covered with its white warts just lifting its 
head above the brown carpet to the fully expanded 



52 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

individual, in which the spots have assumed a 
shrunken and brownish tint. 

The consideration of this species is of the utmost 
importance^ as its beauty is but an alluring mask, 
which has enticed many to their destruction ; among 
the more recent of its conspicuous victims having 
been the Czar Alexis of Russia. For this is another 
cosmopolitan type of mushroom, common alike in 
America, Great Britain, Europe, and Asia, in all of 
which countries it is notorious for its poisonous re- 
sources. It is commonly known as the " Fly-agaric," 

its substance macerated in milk having 
Used as a been employed for centuries as an ef- 
fiy- poison fectual fly-poison. After the reader's 

introduction to the botanical character 
of the Amanita, he would, presumably, be somewhat 
suspicious of the present species. The suggestive 
white or dingy fragments upon its cap, it is true, 
would alone arouse his suspicions, but in the exami- 
nation of the stem for the telltale volva or cup its 
verification might be somewhat in doubt. It is for 
this reason that the species is emphasized in these 

pages, as the Amanita muscarius^ judg- 

its ing from the great dissimilarity of its 

obscure cup numerous portraits from all countries, 

would seem to be remarkably protean, 
especially with reference to its stalk. The majority 
of the portraits of this reprobate presents the volva 
as distinct and as clean cut as in the A. vernus just 
described, and the stalk above as equally smooth, 
features which are usually at variance with the as- 
sociated botanical description of the species, which 



nianitao mudcaztao 



TL/1TE IV 

FLY MUSHROOM 

Agaricus (Amanita) muscarius 

Pileus: Diameter three to six inches, quite flat at maturity; 

color brilliant yellow, orange, or scarlet, becoming pale 

with age, dotted with adhesive white, at length pale 

brownish warts, the remnants of the volva. 
Gills: Pure white, very symmetrical, various in length, the 

shorter ones terminating under the cap with an almost 

vertical abruptness. 
Spores : Pure white. A spore-print of this species is shown 

in Plate 37. 
Stem : White, yellowish with age, becoming shaggy, at length 

scaly, the scales below appearing to merge into the form 

of an obscure cup. 
Volva: Often obscure, indicated by a mere ragged line of 

loose outward curved shaggy scales around a bulbous 

base. 
Flesh: White. 
Habitat: Woods and their borders, especially favoring pine 

and hemlock. 
Season: Summer and autumn. 



> 

> 

z 

H 
> 

C 

o 

> 
> 

o 

c/> 
o 

z 
o 

c 







.-^'.i- -'r--^ 



35 



THE DEADLY AMANITA . 57 

often characterizes the volva as " incomplete " or " ob- 
scure," and the stem as " rough and scaly." If the 
portraits in these works are correct, the Amanita 
qualities of the species are clearly displayed, but if 
their accompanying descriptions are to be credited, 
and such seem to be in perfect accord with the spec- 
imens which I have always found, the A. muscarius 
would seem in need of a more authentic historian. 

The example figured in the plate presents the 
stem and volva as they have always appeared in 
specimens obtained by the writer. In the young 
individuals the stem is waxy-white, becoming later 
a dull, pale ochre hue, the lower half being shaggy 
and torn, and beset with loose projecting woolly 
points which resolve themselves below into scales 
with loose tips curved outward, and so distantly dis- 
posed upon the bulbous base as to leave no marked 
definition of the continuous rim or opening of a cup. 
But the cup is there, and in a section of the bud state 
of the mushroom could have been seen, even as in the 
white warts upon the surface of the younger speci- 
mens we note the evidences of the upper portion of 
the same white volva. In many other 
Volva scales species of Amanita, notably A. vernus, 
permanent as already mentioned, these volva frag- 
ments generally wither and are shed 
from the cap. They are thus not to be counted on 
as a permanent token. But in the fly -mushroom 
they form a disti^tct character^ as they adhere firmly 
to the smooth skin of the pileus, and in drying, instead 
of shrivelling and curling and falling off, simply 
shrink, turn brownish, and in the maturely expanded 



58 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



mushroom appear like scattered drops of mud which 
have dried upon the pileus. Another peculiar struct- 
ural feature of this mushroom is shown in the sec- 
tional drawing herewith given. The shorter gills, 
instead of rounding off as they approach the pileus 




SECTION OF FLY-AMANITA 



(see a), terminate abruptly almost at right angles to 
their edge. The contrast from the usual form will 
be more apparent by comparison with the section of 
the parasol -mushroom on page 114. 

Few species of mushrooms have such an inter- 
esting history as this. Its deadly properties were 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 59 

known to the ancients. From the earliest times its 
deeds of notoriety are on record. 

This is quite possibly the species alluded to by 
Pliny as "very conveniently adapted for poisoning," 
and is not improbably the mushroom 
Historical referred to by this historian in the fol- 
Amanita lowing quotation from his famous Nat- 
ural History: " Mushrooms are a dainty 
food, but deservedly held in disesteem since the no- 
torious crime committed by Agrippina, who through 
their agency poisoned her husband, the Emperor 
Claudius; and at the same moment, in the person 
of her son Nero, inflicted another poisonous curse 
upon the whole world, herself in particular." 

Notwithstanding its fatal character, this mushroom, 
it is said, is habitually eaten by certain peoples, to 
whom the poison simply acts as an intoxicant. In- 
deed, it is customarily thus employed as a narcotic 
and an exhilarant in Kamchatka and Asiatic Russia 
generally, where the Amanita drunkard 
Amanita supplants the opium fiend and alcohol 
dipsomaniacs dipsomaniac of other countries. Its 
narcotizing qualities are commemo- 
rated by Cooke in his Seven Sisters of Sleeps wherein 
may be found a full description of the toxic employ- 
ment of the fungus. 

The writer has heard it claimed that this species 
of Amanita has been eaten with impunity by certain 
individuals; but the information has usually come 
from sources which warrant the belief that another 
harmless species has been confounded with it. The 
warning of my Frontispiece may safely be extended 



6o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

to the fly-amanita. Its beautiful gossamer veil may 
aptly symbolize a shroud. 

By. fixing these simple structural features of the 
Amanita in mind, and emphasizing them by a study 
of our Frontispiece, we. may now consider ourselves 
armed against our greatest foe, and 
Forewarned ^^y ^j^j^ some assurance make our 
forearmed limited selection among this lavish lard- 
er of wild provender continually going 
to waste by the ton in our woods and pastures and 
lawns. For it is now a fact generally believed by 
fungologists, and being gradually demonstrated, that 
the edible species, far from being the exception, as 
formerly regarded, are the rule; that a great majority 
of our common wild fungi are at least harmless, if 
not positively wholesome and nutritious as food. 

THE POISONOUS ALKALOID 

The toxic and deadly effects of certain mushroom 
poisons, as already described, have been known since 
ancient times; and the prolonged intoxicating de- 
bauches to-day prevalent among the Amanita dipso- 
maniacs of Northern Russia and Kamchatka, con- 
sequent upon the allurements of the decoction of the 
fly-agaric, are well-known matters of history. 

The true chemical character of this poison, however, 
was not discovered until 1868, when it was successfully 
isolated by chemical analyses of Drs. Vigier, Schmiede- 
berg, Currie, and Koppe, and ascertained to be an 
alkaloid principle, to which was given originally the 
name of bulbosine, since variously known as musca- 
rine, and finally and most appropriately amanitine. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 6l 

The poison thus identified, it was reserved to an 

American authority on edible fungi, Mr. Julius A. 

Palmer, of Boston, to discover the fact 

Mr. Palmer's of its confinement to but one fungus 

discovery family  the Amanita. 

In the year 1879, in an article con- 
tributed by him to the Moniteur Scientifique, of 
Paris,- he states : 

" Mushrooms are unfit for food by decay or other 
cause, producing simply a disagreement with the sys- 
tem by containing some bitter, acrid, or slimy element, 
or by the presence of a wonderful and dangerous alka- 
loid which is absorbed in the intestinal canal. This 
alkaloid, so far as known, is found only in the Ama- 
nita family T 

To Mr. Palmer, then, is due the chemical segrega- 
tion of the Amanita group as the only repository of 
this deadly toxic. 

It has not been discerned in other species of fungi, 

whose so-called " poisonous " effects are more often 

traceable to mere indigestibility, the 

Lesser selection of "over-ripe" specimens, or 

poisoning to idiosyncrasy, rather than to their 

distinctly poisonous properties. 
Many mushrooms of other families which do pos- 
sess ingredients chemically at war with the human 
system  as the Russula emetica and certain Lac to- 
rii, for instanceat least give a fair warning, either 
by taste or odor, of their dark intentions. 

Owing to the numerous deaths every year conse- 
quent upon mushroom -eating, and nearly always 
directly traceable to the Amanita, the discovery of 



62 ediblp: mushrooms 

an antidote to this poison has been the quest of 
many noted chemists  several supposed antidotes 

having been experimented with upon 

Antidote dogs and other animals without desired 

for Amanita results. These included atropine, the 

deadly crystalline alkaloid from the 
Atropa belladonna. The earlier experiments upon 
animals with this drug in Paris, as described by Dr. 
Gautier in 1884, while encouraging, were not con- 
sidered conclusive, but were sufficient to warrant 
the suggestion that the treatment upon man might 
be effective. In a resume of the subject in the 
Philadelphia Medical and Surgical Reporter, De- 
cember, 1885, for the benefit of the medical prac- 
titioners who are so frequently called upon to attend 
cases of mushroom poisoning. Captain Charles Mcll- 
vaine recommended the administration of a dose of 
atropine of from 0.05 to 0.0002 milligramme, and it 

was later reserved for the same gentle- 
First authentic man to witness the first authentic in- 
application stance of the application of this remedy 

in antagonism with the Amanita poison 
in the human system. The report of this experi- 
ence was afterwards published (see Bibliography, 
No. 6), embodying also a complete and authentic ac- 
count of the symptoms and treatment of the cases 
by the attending physician, Dr. J. E. Shadle, of 
Shenandoah, Pa., which account I feel is appropri- 
ately included here, being in full sympathy with the 
solicitous spirit of my pages. I therefore quote the 
statement of Dr. Shadle for the benefit of those in- 
terested. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 63 

Shenandoah, Pa., October 26, 1885. 
Mr. Chas. McIlvaine : 

My dear Sir, In compliance with your request, I take pleasure 
in submitting to your consideration the following report of five 
cases of toadstool-poisoning which recently came under my ob- 
servation and treatment : 

On Monday, August 31, at 10 a.m., I was hastily called to see 

a family, consisting of Mr. F., his wife, his mother-in-law, Mrs. R., 

and his brother-in-law, Thomas R., who, the 

Amanita messenger stated, were having " cramps in the 

potooninfi: bowels.'' 

symptoms Promptly responding to the call, I found them 

suffering from intense abdominal pains, nausea, 
vomiting, boneache, and feelings of distress in the pracordial 
region. 

Mr. F., twenty-nine years of age, was a miner by occupation, 
and had led an intemperate life. Mrs. F., twenty-two years of 
age, was a brunette, possessing a delicate body, and bearing a 
decided neurotic tendency. Mrs. R., forty-five years of age, was a 
small nervo-bilious woman. Thomas R., thirteen years of age, was 
a youth well developed. 

While I was examining these patients, Mrs. B., forty years of 
age, a neighbor of the family, presented herself, manifesting in a 
milder degree the same symptoms. She was a tall, spare woman. 
Previous to their present attack of illness their general health was 
good ; in none could signs of disease be traced. 

Picture to your mind five persons suffering from cholera morbus 
in its most aggravated form, and you will be enabled to form a 
pretty correct idea of what I beheld in the Faris residence on 
Monday morning, August 31. 

That five individuals, four being members of one household, 
should be attacked simultaneously by a similar train of symptoms, 
naturally gave rise in my mind to a suspicion that something poi- 
sonous had been eaten. Upon close inquiry I obtained the fol- 
lowing history : 

On the afternoon of Sunday, August 30, Mr. F. and Thomas R. 
were walking through a wood not far distant from their home, 
and, in wandering from place to place, found clusters of very 



64 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

beautiful toadstools growing abundantly under trees, among which 
the chestnut predominated. 

Attracted by their appearance, and supposing them to be edi- 
ble, they gathered a large quantity, with the anticipation of hav- 
ing a delicious dish for Hieir Sunday evening 
AmanlU '"eal. 

poisoning: Various other kinds were growing in the same 

symptoms locality, but this particular variety impressed 

them as being the most inviting. A correct 

specimen of the fungus they had collected having been sent 

you, I will leave its botanical description to your pen. 

At about nine o'clock, five hours after gathering them, Mrs. F. 
cooked three pints of the toadstools, stewing them in milk, and 
seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt. 

They had dinner at a very early hour on this day, and by the 
time they had supper all felt exceedingly hungry, in consequence 
of which they ate* quite heartily. Mrs. F. and her brother vied 
with each other as to the quantity they could eat. In addition 
to this dish, bread and butter and coffee were served. 
 Soon after supper the family retired. None experienced the 
least discomfort until towards daybreak, when considerable dis- 
tress in the abdominal organs and cerebral disturbance manifested 
themselves. Prominent among the initial symptoms were foul 
breath, coated tongue, pain in the stomach, nausea, and a peculiar 
sickening sensation in the epigastrium. These symptoms gradual- 
ly increased in severity, and in twelve hours after the ingestion 
of the poison, when I made my first visit, the condition of the 
victims involved great danger. Intense vomiting was present in 
four, while in Mrs. R.'s case a violent retching seemed to persist. 

Gastro-intestinal irritation, followed by a relaxed condition of 
the bowels, showed itself in about thirty hours after the onset of 
the more active symptoms. With the appearance of this trouble 
an insufferable tenesmus developed, producing paroxysms of 
severe agony. This was particularly true in the case of Mrs. R., 
whose suffering was so great that it became a formidable symptom 
to combat. Upon the subsidence of the more severe symptoms, 
the patients fell into a state of extreme prostration, accompanied 
by stupor and cold extremities. In the mother, son, and daughter 
this was profoundly marked. They were completely indifferent 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 65 

to persons and things around them, as well as to their own suf- 
fering. 

As the symptoms increased in violence, Thos. R. advanced into 

a state of coma, and Mrs. F. into coma vigil, and remained so for 

about twelve hours prior to death. The face 

Amanita ^^^ ^ shrunken and wrinkled appearance, the 

polsonlns: eyes were sunken, the skin was dusky, and the 

symptoms surface of the body was dry and cold to the 

touch. The pulse, a number of hours before 

death, was imperceptible at the wrist, and the heart-sounds were 

scarcely perceived by auscultation. 

The pulse in all cases was notably affected, ranging from 120 
to 140 per minute. In character it was soft and compressible; 
intermittent at intervals. 

There was a distinct rise of temperature ; the thermometer in 
the axilla registered as much as 104 F. 

A mild form of delirium was an occasional event. In the case 
of Mrs. F. it formed an important element. 

Respecting the special senses, it is well to mention that sight 
was peculiarly affected. Notwithstanding the fact that the pupils 
responded kindly to the action of the light, an unpleasant sensa- 
tion of blindness frequently appeared, and continued for a few 
minutes. 

In spite of all that was done to counteract its ravages, the ef- 
fects of the poison were so extremely deadly that a fatal issue 
was the result in two cases. Thomas R. died in fifty-six and Mrs. 
F. in sixty-three hours after the ingestion of the toadstools. 
Treatment,  The treatment instituted was mainly symptomatic. 
Fearing that undigested particles of toadstools might still be 
lying in the gastro-intestinal tract, to Mrs. R., who had not freely 
vomited, an emetic was administered, and to 
Amanita ^^^ rest a mild purge. 

polsonlns: An intense thirst and a burning sensation 

treatment being present in the mouth, throat, and stomach, 
small pieces of cracked ice were freely used with 
a view to allaying it. 

For the gastro-intestinal irritation I prescribed with satisfactory 
results the following : 



66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

B; Bismuth siibnit. , jv ; 
Creosote, gtt. xv ; 
Mucil. acaciae, ffi ; 
Aq. menth. pip., q.s. ad ffiii. M. 
Sig.  Teaspoonful every one or two hours. 

Va grain of morph. sulph. was administered hypodermically to 
alleviate as much as possible the abdominal suffering. 

The impending exhaustion and the failing heart's action I en- 
deavored to combat with a free administration of alcoholic stimu- 
lants in combination with moderate doses of tincture of digitalis 
both by the mouth and under the skin. 

In order to invite the circulation of the blood to the ice-cold 
surface of the body, heated bricks and bottles filled with hot water 
were placed in bed around the patients. 

Analyzing each symptom as it arose, and carefully observing 
the effects of the poison on the system, I formed the opinion thai 
the toxic element contained in the noxious fun- 
gus eaten by these people was narcotic in its 
Diagnosis nature and spent its force on the nerve centres, 
especially selecting the one governing the func- 
tion of respiration and the action of the heart. 

Acting upon this conclusion, I began, in the early part of my 
treatment, subcutaneous injections of sulphate of atropine in fre- 
quently-repeated doses, ranging from jl^ to -gL grain. The in- 
jections invariably were followed by a perceptible improvement in 
the patient ; the heart's action became stronger, the pulse returned 
at the wrist, anrf the respiration increased in depth and fulness. 

Through the agency of this remedy, supported by the other 
measures adopted, three (or sixty per cent.) of the patients re- 
covered. 

The lessons I draw from this experience are : 

1. The poisoning produced by this variety of toadstool is slow 
in manifesting its effects. 

2. That it destroys life by a process of asthenia. 

3. That in atropine we have an antidote, and it should be pushed 
heroically from the earliest inception of the action of the poison. 

I have the honor to remain 

Yours very respectfully, 

J. E. Shadle, M.D. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 67 

In reply to the queries, Was atropine administered 
in all the cases? and What was the total amount 
administered to each ? Dr. Shadle responded as fol- 
lows: 

Shenandoah, Pa., October 29, 1885. 
My dear Mr. McIlvaine : 

Yours of the 27th I have received. The two questions you ask 
me therein 1 see are very important, and they should be answered 
as fully as possible. I am sorry I overlooked the matter in my 
report. 

Before attempting an answer, it is well for me to note right 

here that Mrs. B., the neighbor, did not eat very much of the 

toadstool stew ; Mrs. R. and Mr. F. each ate 

.xs about the same quantity  from one and one- 

Amanitine . .. , r 1 rr^i  i- 

. half to two platefuls. This is according to 

Faris's statement. But the two fatal cases  

Thomas R. and Mrs. F.  tried to see which 

could eat the most, and consequently got their full share of the 

poison. The cat mentioned before had about a tablespoonful of 

the broth, and they tell me she was very sick. Whether or not 

she died is not known. 

Now as to the treatment by atropine, I think I can approximate 
a pretty correct statement in reply to your queries. Not knowing 
that atropine was considered an antidote, I began its employment 
in the treatment of these cases from the physiological knowledge 
I had of the drug relative to its action in other diseases in which 
there was heart-failure and embarrassed respiration. 

When 1 saw the U. S. Dispensatory suggested it, I of course felt 
it my duty to use it, as I could find now^here anj^hing else men- 
tioned as an antidote. I feel convinced that it was by means of 
the atropine that I saved three of the five patients. Why do I 
think so ? Because whenever I would administer the remedy the 
patient rallied, the pulse returned at the wrist, the heart-sounds 
became stronger, and the respiration increased in strength and 
fulness. What more conclusive evidence do I want than this to 
show as to how the agent was acting ? 

W^hen I first saw the patients  twelve hours after the ingestion 



68 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of the poison  their symptoms were alike, one suffering as much 

as the other (August 31). I began the use of the alkaloid in 

the evening of the same day, when 1 saw the 

Administration powers of life giving way, the heart failing, and 

of antidote the respiration becoming shallow. It was used 

in all the cases as follows : 

Mrs. B., j^-^, ,V nhy or ^|^, or ^ gr. 

Mr. F., ^i^, -gV, uV ?V or ^^^ gr. 

Mrs. R., jif^y ^, ^, ^, or y|^ gr. 

Thos. R., yl^, -jV, fhy ^ "oV or ^^q, or ^ gr. 

Mrs. R, y^ijr, ^h, ^\, ^V t^ or y|o, or ^ gr. 

In accordance with the above formulae the drug was admin- 
istered. I visited the patients at intervals of six or eight hours, 
and at each visitation they received an injection in the doses 
above mentioned. From this we see that in all Mrs. B. received 
gr. ^ of atropine ; Mr. F. received gr. yj^ of atropine ; Mrs. R. 
received gr. j|^ of atropine ; Thos R. (fatal) received gr. ^\ of 
atropine ; Mrs. F. (fatal) received gr. -^ of atropine. 

The alkaloid failing to save the two that died I think can be 
attributed to one of two causes, or probably both : 

1. That the use of atropine was begun too late and not used 
heroically enough. 

2. That so much of the poison was taken up by the system in 
these cases that it became too virulent to counteract. 

From the history of the cases I know they ate by far the largest 
quantity. My opinion leans towards the first probable cause I 
have mentioned. 

Another fact worth stating here is that the pupils never became 
affected by the administration of these doses. 

Hoping this will make the matter satisfactory, I remain 

Yours truly, J. E. Shadle. 

The interval between the ingestion and the symp- 
toms is, therefore, a most important aid in the diag- 
nosis of a case of mushroom poisoning; and in the 
event of an Amanita, heretofore absolutely fatal, it is 
presumably under the control of medical science, now 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 69 

that the deadly toxic principle has at last found its 
enemy in the neutralizing properties of the equally 
deadly atropine. 

It would seem, moreover, from the severe personal 
experience of Mr. Julius A. Palmer, that the poison 
of the Amanita is quite capable of mischief without 
being taken into the digestive organs. So volatile is 
this dangerous alkaloid that it may produce violent 
effects upon the system either through its odor alone, 
or by simple contact with the skin and consequent 
absorption. 

Mr. Palmer, in his before-mentioned article in the 
Moniteur Scientijique^ Paris, relates the following ex- 
periences : 

" Once while perspiring from a long walk I under- 
took to bring in a large bunch of the Amanita for 
an artist. Seated in a close car, hold- 

b'^^^^^tict ^^S them in my warm hand, although 

and odor protected by a paper wrapper, a fearful 

nausea overcame me. The toadstool 

was not at first suspected, yet I had all the symptoms 

of a sea-sick person, and was only relieved by a 

wide distance between myself and the exciting cause. 

" While writing this article," he continues, " a friend 
sent me two very elegant specimens of the Amanita 
tribe. They were in a confined box. On opening 
it I smelled of them a few times, and allowed the 
box to lie near my desk while I wrote to a medical 
gentleman anxious to procure such for chemical ex- 
periment. Having sent them away the matter was 
dismissed from my mind for three hours after, when, 
by an attack of vomiting and oppression at the stom- 



70 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ach, they were enforced upon my attention. The 
whites of my eyes became livid, and even until noon 
the day following the leaden color of my face was 
noticed by more than one person." 

The moral of this story is that the less the reader 

has to do with Amanita fungi the better. Let them 

have a wide berth, or at most an an- 

A wide berth nihilating kick, lest by their alluring 

to Amanita beauty they tempt the next unwary 
traveller who shall encounter them. 

But you desire a specimen " to show a friend," or 
"to make a photograph of, or a sketch," perhaps. 
In such case it were well to consider further the ex- 
periences of Mr. Palmer, which will show the wisdom 
of keeping your gustatorial and artistic mycology 
in separate expeditions, or at least of providing your 
poison-exhaling .Amanita specimen with a cage by it- 
self. In the same article he continues: 

" Mushrooms make the same use of the atmosphere 

as men, even their exhalations are accordingly viti- 

ated with their properties. Those not 

^ncSl'S'* deadly thus attack humanity namely, 

by contact by absorption of their essential elements 
by the whole system. They also in- 
oculate each other with or without contact, so that if 
edible and noxious toadstools are gathered together the 
former will absorb the properties of the latter'' 

In proof of this assertion he instances a personal 
experience as follows : " About four years ago a num- 
ber of poisonous mushrooms (not Amanitas, but of a 
totally different family) were sent me with edible fun- 
gus. The two varieties had lain twelve hours in the 



THE DEADLY AMAxMTA 7 1 

same box. The noxious ones were rejected, and the 
esculent washed and eaten. In a moment my appe- 
tite was gone ; violent perspiration, vertigo, and trem- 
bling were the next symptoms ; then chills, nausea, 
purging, and tenesmus, all within thirty minutes. Now 
the substance could not have reached the intestines. 
The virus absorbed from the noxious fungus perme- 
ated the whole system through eating the harmless 
ones ; unmixed with other food it acted upon the 
muscles through an empty stomach ; once spent, the 
ailment passed off," etc. 

From these and other experiences he draws the 

following conclusions : The poisonous principle of a 

fungus being absorbed by a harmless 

Poison element, if the latter be eaten the ven- 

cxtractcd 

by vinegar om acts more quickly. In reinforce- 
ment of this he states that " if the 
Amanita be cut in sections and laid in vinegar the 
fungus may be eaten without danger to life ; but on 
a very small dose of the vinegar, death will follow 
more speedily than if the whole toadstool be eaten." 
Further interesting matter upon this topic is con- 
tained in the article from which I quote, and to 
which the reader is referred in his volume included 
in my bibliographical list. The work also contains 
numerous other collected articles of Mr. Palmers 
upon this subject of fungi, to which he has devoted 
so much attention, and with which his name has be- 
come so popularly identified in America. 

The allusion to vinegar as an absorbent of the poi- 
son suggests the prevalent habitual use of salt as a 
safeguard by many in the employment of the fungus 



^2 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as food, as both of these ingredients play a prominent 
part in a fungus cuisine. It is averred by some writ- 
ers that one of the most noxious of 
Effect of salt Amanitae  the Fly-agaric  is eaten in 
and heat some countries, notably Russia, without 
unpleasant results, while it is confident- 
ly asserted to be harmless after, as it were, having 
its venom drawn by a soaking in brine previous to 
cooking. Boiling  both in the possible neutralizing 
of the poison through heat, and in the withdrawal of 
the same in the solution  would also be contributive 
to safety in such cases, provided the tainted liquid 
were not retained as in a stew or soup. 

On this topic it is interesting to note the epicure- 
an perversity of a certain French author, who, in the 
face of the already overwhelming abun- 
Epicurean dance of nature s esculent species of 
perversity fungi, must needs include all the deadly 
Amanitae as well, though he gives a rec- 
ipe by which the poison is extracted by the copious 
aid of salt, vinegar, boiling water, and drawing. This 
process, on general principles, might invite humorous 
speculation as to the appetizing qualities of the resid- 
ual morsel thus acquired, or as to the advisability of 
deliberately selecting a poisonous substance for the 
desideratum of the washed-out, corned, spiced, non- 
descript remnant which survives the process of ex- 
traction, not only of its noxious properties, but of 
even what nutriment it might possibly contain. 

Fancy a beefsteak similarly ** prepared," all its nour- 
ishing ingredients extracted and thrown away; its ex- 
hausted remnant of muscular fibre now the mere ab- 



THE DEADLY AMAxNITA 73 

sorbent vehicle for vinegar, salt, lemon-juice, butter, 
nutmeg, garlic, spice, cloves, and other seeming indis- 

pensables to the preparation of the 
Mushrooms Champignon a la mode! 
k la mode The verdict of the extreme fungus 

epicure upon the delectable flavor of 
this or that mushroom must indeed be taken cunt 
grano salts, the customary culinary treatment, or 
maltreatment, of these delicately flavored fruits hav- 
ing for its apparent object the elimination as far 
as possible of any suggestion of the true flavor of 
the fungus. I fancy that even the caustic, rebellious 
root of the Indian -turnip or the skunk-cabbage thus 
tamed and subdued in a smothering emollient of 
spiced gravy or ragout might negatively serve a pur- 
pose as more or less indigestible pabulum. 

While, as already mentioned, a few of this genus 
Amanita are edible, it is well in concluding our 

chapter to emphasize the caution of 
Enough with- an earlier page as to the absolute ex- 
out Amanita elusion of the entire genus from the 

bill of fare of the amateur mycophagist. 
There is an abundance of wholesome, delicious fungi 
at our dt)ors without them. 

Many species of Amanita are to be found more or 
less frequently in company with the esculent varieties 
recommended in the chapters following. Among 
these the two extremes of variation from the typical 
form are seen in the A. muscarius in its permanent 
retention of the volva scales and the obscurity of its 
cup, and in the A.phalloides, herewith pictured about 
half natural size, with the frequent entire absence of 



74 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



these remnant scales, which wither and fall off, leav- 
ing the yellowish or greenish cap perfectly smooth. 

It is to the volva or cup^ then, that we must turn 
for the one fixed permanent character by which this 
genus is to be identified. 







AMANITA PHALLOIDES 





UR introductory description of the Ama- 
nita presents the most perfect botan- 
1 ical type of a large division of the 
'''j'l fungus tribe, the AgaricacecE, or gill- 
^^-^-^ bearing mushrooms, one of the two 
great orders of fungi which include the large major- 
ity of edible species. 

A brief consideration of the general classification 
of fungi will not be out of place at the head of this 
chapter. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FUNGI 

A fungus is a cellular cryptogamous (flowerless) 
plant, nourished through its spawn or mycelium in 
place of roots, living in air, and propagated by spores. 

Fungi  mycetes  are naturally subdivided into two 
great divisions: 

1. Sporifera  those in which the spores or repro- 
ductive bodies are naked or soon exposed, as shown 
in illustration on page 79. 

2. Sporidiifera  in which the spores are envel- 
oped in sacs or asci. These resemble in shape the 
cystidium of illustration on page 79. 



78 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



The first of these divisions  the Sporifera, or 
naked-spored fungi  is again subdivided into four 
families, as follows : 

1. Hymenomyceies. Hymenium, or spore-bearing 
surface, exposed and conspicuous, as seen in the 
common mushroom and all Agarics and Polyporei. 

2. G aster omycetes {gaster^ a belly). Hymenium, or 
spore- bearing surface, eiiclosed in a more or less 
spherical case, called the peridium, which ruptures 
and expels the spores at maturity in the form of dust, 
as in the puff-balls. 

3. Coniomycetes, from the Greek /ccuvt?, meaning 
dust, the entire fungus having a dtist-like appearance. 
Mildew forms a good example of this family. 

4. Hypkomycetes, from the Greek v<^a, meaning a 
thread. Thread-like fungi, the filaments being more 
conspicuous than the spore masses, of which group 
blue-mould affords an illustration. 

The Hymenomycetes (i) is again subdivided into 




six orders, the discrimination being based on the 
diverse character of the spore surface. The first of 
these orders is the Agaricini, or gill- bearing fungi, 
to which our present chapter will be confined. 



AGARICS 



79 



A^_^Cysti(1ium 



Sterile cell 



lV/ - Sporophore 



AGARICINI 

In this order the hymenium, or spore -bearing sur- 
face, is inferior, Le,, on the under side of the pileus, 
and is spread over lamellae or gills, which radiate 
from the stem of the fungus, and each of which may 
be separated into two filmy flat divisions. 

On the opposite page is shown an Agaric in ver- 
tical section, disclosing a full side view of the gills. 
A highly magni- 
fied view of this 
gill -surface is in- 
dicated herewith, 
duly indexed, the 
sporophore being 
shown in the act of 
shedding its spores 
from their points 
of attachment to 
the four stigmata 
at the summit. These fruitful four- pointed sporo- 
phores or basidia are intermingled with the cystidia 
and sterile cells, the whole mass forming the surface 
of the hymenium. The dissemination of the Agaric 
is further considered in a later chapter on " Spore- 
prints." 

The most perfect botanical type of the Agarics 
is the Amanita, already sufficiently dwelt upon. 

We will now proceed to the consideration of other 
examples in which the symbol of the fatal cup is 
happily absent, and whose identities as esculent spe- 
cies are clearly denoted by individual characteristics. 




SPORE-SURFACE MAGNIFIED 



EDIBLE AGARICS 



MEADOW MUSHROOM 
Agaricus campestris 

Perhaps the one species which enjoys the widest 
range of popular confidence as the " mushroom " in 
the lay mind, as distinguished from " toadstool," is the 
Agaricus campestris^ known as the " meadow mush- 
room " (Plate 5). It is the species commonly exposed 
in our markets. Its cultivation is an 
The" important industry, but it often yields 

mushroom an enormous spontaneous harvest in 
its native haunts. The plate shows 
a cluster of the mushrooms in their various stages 
of development, the detached specimen below rep- 
resenting the semi -opened condition in which the 
fungus is usually gathered for market. It will be ob- 
served that the base of the stem is entirely free from 
a7iy suggestion of a volva or cup. As its popular 
name implies, this species in its wild state is one of 
the voluntary tributes of our late summer and autumn 
meadows and pastures, though it may occasionally 
frequent lawns, shrubberies, and barn-yards. In size 
it varies from two to three and a half 

Description inches across the pileus or cap, which is 

Campestris either smooth or slightly rough, scaly, 
or scurfy, and creamy white or tawny in 
color, according to age or variety. The most im- 
portant distinguishing feature of this species is the 
color of the gills. If we break away the " veil " in the 



azicud campedtzid 



TLATE V 

"THE MUSHROOM" 

Agfaricus campestris 

Pileus : At first globular, its edge connected to stem by the 
veil ; then round convex, at length becoming possibly 
almost flat. Surface dry, downy, or even quite scaly, 
varying in color from creamy white to light brown. 
Diameter at full expansion, about three inches. 

Gills: Unequal in length; pink when first revealed, becoming 
brownish, brown, purplish, and finally almost black. 

Stem: Solid; of the color of the cap; paler and white in 
section, retaining the remnant of the veil in a permanent 
ragged ring. 

Spores: Brown. 

Taste : Sweet and inviting, and odor agreeable. 

Habitat : Pastures, lawns, and open rich soil generally. 

Season: Late summer and early autumn, occasionally in 
spring. 



Ac A p. cur V. V 








r 


.:\i ^ ' \' 


HI 


! ; ' t 


:>'{ 



:hi y\'i!%' .n 



PLATE V 




Agaricus Campestris. 



AGARICS 85 

unopened specimen, we find them to be of a pallid 
flesh tint. In the more advanced st^te they become 
decidedly pinkish, with age and expansion gradually 
deepening to purplish, purple-brown, and finally brown- 
ish black. The gills are of unequal lengths, as shown 
in the section. The stem is creamy white and of solid 
substance, and always shows the remains of the veil 
in a persistent frill or ring just beneath the cap. 

Doubtless a sufficient and satisfactory reason for 

the universal dignity which this species has acquired 

as " the mushroom " may be found in 

Cultivation the fact that it is the only species 
of mustirooms prominently under cultivation, and al- 
most the only one which is sure to 
respond to the artificial cultivation of its spawn in 
the so-called "mushroom bed." The "spawn" of 
the Campestris has thus become a mercantile com- 
modity, duly advertised in the seedsmen's catalogues. 

This so-called spawn is in truth nothing but the 

mycelium, or subterranean vine of the mushroom (see 

Plate 2), taken from the beds in which 

Miisiiroom the mushrooms have been grown, or 
'spawn" i>ed in which the mycelium has been culti- 
vated. The cultivator simply prepares 
a " bed " to receive it^-duplicating as far as possible 
the soil conditions from which it was taken, whether 
from foreign cultivation or his old manure-bed or 
stable-yard  a rich, warm compost of loam and horse- 
manure, this latter ingredient being a most important 
consideration, as the fungus in its several varieties, 
notably the larger, Agaricus arvensis^ known as the 
"horse-mushroom," has followed the track of the horse 



86 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

around the world. These natural conditions having 
been even approximately fulfilled, will, within two 
months, generally reward the cultivator with a crop of 
mushrooms, which, with the continued ramifications of 
the mycelium permeating the muck as the yeast fun- 
gus permeates the home-made loaf, will insure a con- 
tinual succession of crops for weeks or months, to be 
renewed spontaneously, perhaps, the following season. 

The present volume, having specific reference to 
fungi in their wild state, and the celebration of their 
esculent virtues, being thus essentially in antithesis 
to artificial culture, further consideration of the cul- 
tivation of the mushroom is omitted. The reader is 
referred to the volumes in my bibliographical list, 
Nos. 8 and 22, in which full instructions will be found. 

The Campestris is conspicuous among mushrooms 

in it3 ready accommodation to artificial imitation of 

its native environment. There is no 

Species Other mushroom which is thus confi- 
opposed to 
cultivation dently to be relied on. Other species  

not a dozen, however, out of the thou- 
sands  will occasionally reward the cultivator, who 
has devoted the most scrupulous care to the humor- 
ing of their fastidious conditions of growth. Thus 
the Agaricus candicans of the Italian markets is said 
to have been successfully raised from chips of the 
white poplar which have been properly covered with 

manure. Other species, it is claimed. 

Certain can be humored from a block of the 

exceptions cob-nut tree after singeing its surface 

over burned straw, while Dr. Thore 
claims that both Boletus edulis, and Agaricus pro- 



AGARICS 87 

cerus are " constantly raised by the inhabitants of his 
district from a watery infusion of said plants poured 
upon the ground." The truth of these statements 
has been denied by authorities, and individual exper- 
iment will only tend to discredit their trustworthiness. 
In general the mushroom or toadstool absolutely re- 
fuses to be " coaxed or cajoled." The mycelium of all 
is practically identical; but species such as the Co- 
prinus, for instance, which are perhaps found growing 
naturally in company with the Campestris, and whose 
spawn is similarly transplanted to the artificial en- 
vironment, will show no sign of reappearance, while 
its fellow may literally crowd the bed. 

The "fairy-ring" mushroom grows year after year 
upon our lawn, because its mycelium is continually 
present, simply threading its way outwardly, inch by 
inch, in the congenial surrounding soil. Instances 
are reported of the occasional successful establishment 
of this mushroom in new quarters by the transfer of a 
clod of earth threaded with mycelium taken from the 
" fairy-ring " to another lawn, in which the immediate 
soil conditions happened to be harmonious, and this 
method of actual transference of the spawn might oc- 
casionally be effectual. But the writer, in his limited 
number of experiments, has never yet been able to 

propagate a mushroom by a transfer of 
Not to be the spores to soil where the conditions 
tuimored would appear to be exactly suitable. 

On a certain lawn, for instance, every 
year I obtain a number of the Coprinus comatus (Plate 
16). Upon another lawn, apparently exactly similar 
as to soil conditions, I transfer the melting mushroom 



88 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

where it sheds its inky spore-solution upon the earth, 
and yet, after years of waiting, there is no response. 
Even an absolute transfer of the webby spawn from 
the original haunt has proven equally without result 
Thus while the habitual fungus-hunter comes to rec- 
ognize a certain logical association between a given 
character of natural haunt and some certain species 
of fungi  a prophetic suspicion often immediately 
fulfilled  as when he inwardly remarks, as he comes 
upon an open, clear spot in the woods, " This is an ideal 
haunt for the green Russula," and instantly stumbles 
upon his specimen; yet he may take the pallid spawn, 
with a small clod of earth from its roots, and place it 
in the mould not ten feet distant, apparently in iden- 
tically auspicious conditions, and it absolutely refuses 
to be humored. He may mark the spot, and look 
in vain in its precincts for a decade for his Russula, 
though the ground in the vicinity be dotted with them. 

Year after year I have thrown my refuse specimens 
of hundreds of species of fungi out of my studio win- 
dow, over the piazza rail or upon my 
Dormant lawn, yet never with the slightest sign 
spores that one of the millions of spores in the 
species thus sown has vegetated. 

Considering the ready accommodation of the Cam- 
pestris, the contrast of the fastidiousness in other spe- 
cies is a notable phenomenon. As a rule, " they will 
not colonize ; they will not emigrate ; they will not 
be cheated out of their natural possessions : they re- 
fuse to be educated, and stand themselves upon their 
single leg, as the most independent and contrary 
growth with which man has to deal.*' 



< 

< 

> 

2 
> 

H 
O 



> 

> 

?3 



7> 




AGARICS 91 

The Campestris is probably the most protean of all 

mushrooms, and mycologists are even yet at odds as 

to the proper botanical disposition of 

^*f'th^^ many of the contrasting varieties which 

Campestris it assumes. A few of these are indicat- 
ed in Plate 6. Indeed, some of these, 
as in the Agaricus arvensis, following, have until quite 
recently figured as distinct species. In its extreme 
form it might well so do, but when science is con- 
fronted with an intermediate specimen bearing equal 
aflSnities to the Campestris and Arvensis  and per- 
haps reinforced by other individuals which actually 
merge completely into the Campestris  the discrimi- 
nation of the Arvensis as a distinct species becomes 
impossible, and would hardly seem warrantable. 

Berkeley gives the following selection of the more 
distinct varieties, not including the Arvensis with its 
variations, and which he considers a distinct species: 

1. The so-called "garden mushroom," with its brownish, hairy, 
scaly cap. 

2. A. pratensis, in which the pileus is more or less covered with 
reddish scales, and the flesh as well as gills a pinkish tinge. 

3. A, villaticus^ large size and very scaly. 

4. A, silvicola^ pileus smooth and shining, stem elongated and 
conspicuously swollen at base ; often found in woods. 

5. A, vaporarius, brown pilose coat which covers the stem as 
well as the cap, and leaves streaky fragments on the stalk as it 
elongates. 

6. He also figures another marked form, with the cap of a red- 
dish color, completely covered with a pilose coat ; the gills being 
perfectly white in young specimens, and the flesh turning bright 
red when bruised. 

Any one of the above, he admits, are as much entitled to classi- 
Rcation as " distinct species " as the Arvensis. 



92 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The application of the title "horse -mushroom" to 
this last-mentioned species was generally supposed to 
be referable to the same, popular tra- 
The horse" ditions of which we see the analogies 
mushroom in the names horse -weed, horse -nettle, 
horse -balm, horseradish among the 
herbs  the prefix " horse " referring to the element of 
coarseness or rank growth. But in the instance of 
the mushroom it bears a deeper significance, as this 
ample cosmopolitan variety of the Campestris, which 
follows the horse all over the world, from stable and 
through lane to pasture, and which can only be 
grown in the manure of this animal, is now generally 
believed to be a secondary, exaggerated form conse- 
quent upon the following conditions : 

The spores of the Campestris are shed in myriads 
in the pastures. The grazing horse no doubt swal- 
lows thousands of them, which, upon their return to 
the soil under especially favorable conditions for 
growth, vegetate into mycelium, and at length fructi- 
fy in the full -formed mushroom. The dense white 
spawn of this species may often be seen beneath the 
manure in pastures where no sign of the mushroom 
itself is yet apparent. 

During the writing of the present pages I have 
received from Arizona a letter accompanied with a 
sketch of a most astonishing mushroom, 
A huge which my correspondent finds plenti- 
variety fully prevalent in his vicinity, growing 
in arid sand, even in an exceptionally 
dry season. He claims that "it is deliciously ed- 
ible," and he has partaken of it several times. His 



AGARICS 93 

sketch and description call to mind no existing form 
of mushroom known to me, though from one peculi- 
arity in particular  namely, its frequently enormous 
size, "occasionally ten inches in diameter"  one 
would naturally expect to find it at least notorious, 
if not famous. 

It is plainly an Agaric related to the Campestris, 
and from the fact of its having " pink gills darker in 
older specimens" I suspect it to be simply another 
local masquerade of this same Campestris, which sus- 
picion, by the receipt of further data, I hope soon to 
verify. 

HORSE-MUSHROOM 

Agaricus arvensis 

This other and larger variety, so readily confound- 
ed with the Campestris, demands further and more 
detailed description. It may frequently be found 
growing in company with the former, and so closely 
do the two kinds merge in specimens of equal size 
that it is often a puzzle to separate the species. In- 
deed, as already mentioned by some mycologists, the 
larger form is considered merely as a variety of the 
Campestris. The accompanying plate (5) may well 
serve as a portrait of this species also. It frequents 
the same localities as the former, and is occasional- 
ly seen crowded in clusters of crescent 
Description shape, or in scattered rings, while its 
of Arvensis size is generally conspicuous, the solid 
cream -colored or" white cap often ex- 
panding to the diameter of seven inches. Its sub- 
stance discolors to yellowish brown on being bruised. 



94 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The stem is less solid than in Campestris, often with 
a pithlike or even hollow heart. The gills are of 
unequal length, as in the former species, though of 
much the same tints of pink and brown and black, 
though more dingy in the lighter shades. The veil 
is often more conspicuous, and occasionally appears 
to be double, the outer or lower more or less ragged 
or split into a fringe at the edge. The species can 
hardly be mistaken for any poisonous variety, and, 
once recognized, its. generous size, frequent profusion, 
and savory qualities make it a tempting quest to the 
epicure, being considered by many as superior in fla- 
vor to its rival, the smaller Campestris. 

But this question of gastronomic prestige will per- 
haps never be finally settled. De gustibus non est 
disputandum. Species considered here 

In matters by many as the ne plus ultra of delica- 
of taste cies, like the Campestris, are discrimi- 
nated against in other countries, and in 
Rome, it is said, are even thrown into the Tiber by 
inspectors and guardians of the public health who 
find it exposed for sale in the markets. There are 
those connoisseurs in delicate feasting who consider 
no other species comparable to this. These fastidi- 
ous gourmands are in turn viewed with pitying con- 
sideration by other superior epicurean feeders with 
finer sensuous discrimination, who know perfectly 
well that our woods afford a number of common 
species which easily consign the Campestris to the 
fourth or fifth choice as a competitor at the feast. 

The arts of the chef have been exhausted in the 
savory preparation of this, the most famous of the 



AGARICS 95 

mushrooms. A few of his ingenious methods are 
given in a later chapter. Meanwhile most of us will 
be perfectly contented with our simple " mushrooms 
on toast." 

While the Campestris is generally considered as 
" the " mushroom, there is another species which al- 
most equally shares the honors in popular favor. 

I have alluded to the habit of the horse-mushroom 
as "growing in crescents or rings." This singular 
tendency is, however, much more fully exemplified 
in another fungus, which has thus won the popular 
patronymic of the "Fairy -ring" Champignon, and 
which is considered on page loi. 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 
Agaricus gambosus 

Another very common example of mushroom in 
its season of early spring is the Agaricus gambosus^ 
or St. George's mushroom, as it is popularly styled 
in Great Britain, from its usual appearance about the 
time of St. George's Day, April 23d. In addition to 
its unusually early season, which is the same with 
us, and which at this date would be a valuable hint 
in its identification, it has also the singular habit of 
growing in rings or clustered in crescents, after the 
manner of the Fairy- ring Champignon of our lawns. 
Add to this, also, a very strong odor, 
Remarkably and we have at least three suggestive 
strong odor characteristics to aid us. This odor, 
according to Dr. Cooke, is so strong 
as to occasionally become oppressive and overpower- 
ing where the fungus is plentiful. Workmen em- 



96 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ployed to root them out are said to have been so 
overcome by the odor as to be compelled to desist. 
Other features of this fungus are noted in Plate 7. 
.The cap varies in size in different individuals, but is 
occasionally very large  five inches or more in diam- 
eter, the average expanse, perhaps, being about three 
inches. The cap is smooth, thick, and fleshy, sug- 
gesting soft kid leather, at first rounded convex, ulti- 
mately expanding quite 
horizontally, and is com- 
monly fissured here and 
there with irregular cracks, 
both in its expanse and 
at its edges. Its color is 
white, or yellowish white. 
In surface appearance Dr. 
Berkeley compared it to a 
" cracknel biscuit." The 
gills are yellowish white, 
very moist and densely 
crowded, and of various lengths, as indicated in my 
sectional drawing on the plate, and are, moreover, 
annexed to the solid .stout stem by a toothed border, 
also shown herewith. 

The season of this mushroom extends into June, 
and in its favorite haunt it may occasionally be gath- 
ered by the bushel. Opinions are at 
Epicurean variance as to the comparative esculent 
opinions qualities of this species. Certainly deli- 
cacy cannot be claimed for it; but 
those epicures who desire the characteristic fungus 
flavor at its maximum will find it in the Gambosus. 




TOOTHED GILLS 



oS^azicud cjambodud 



TLATE yil 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 

Agaricus gambosus 

Pileus: Three to six inches in diameter, occasionally much 
larger; rounded convex, at length more flat and common- 
ly cracked here and there; surface smooth, thick, and 
fleshy, suggesting soft kid leather. Color, pale ochre 
or yellowish white. 

Gills: Densely crowded; yellowish white; very moist; va- 
rious lengths; each annexed to stem by a small sharp 
downward curve. 

Stem: Solid; stout; substance creamy white. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Highly flavored; by some considered "too gamy." 

Odor: Powerfully strong, perhaps rank. 

Habitat: Fields, lawns, and pastures, frequently growing in 
broken rings or crescents. 



/^G^R:CU::> ^''A 



PLATE VII 




Agaricus Ga/abosus. 



AGARICS lOI 

By many fungus-f casters this species is prized as 
the ne plus ultra, and most various are the methods 
of its culinary preparation, either in the form of mince 
and fricassee with various meats, suitably seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and butter, or simply broiled and 
served on buttered toast. An appetizing recipe for 
this especial mushroom is given on page 313. 

TRUE FAIRY-RING CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius oreades 

I remember, as a boy, summer after summer ob- 
serving upon a certain spot upon our lawn this dense, 
and at length scattering, ring of tiny 

Faio^-ring yellowish mushrooms, and the aroma, 
mushrooms ^ 1 1 . 1 

true and false as they simmered on the kitchen stove, 

is an appetizing memory. This species 

is very common, and inasmuch as it is likely to be 

confounded with two noxious varieties, it is advisable 

to bring in prominent contrast the characters of the 

true and the false. 

The true Fairy -ring Champignon is pictured in 
Plate 8. It is common on lawns and close-cropped 
pastures, where it is usually seen growing in rings 
more or less broken, and often several feet in diam- 
eter, or in disconnected arcs, the vegetation extend- 
ing outward year by year. This mushroom is held 
in great esteem, and frequently grows in such pro- 
fusion that bushels may be gathered in a small area. 

The pileus is buff or cream colored, from one to 
two inches in diameter, leathery and shrivelled when 
dry, but when moist, after rain or dew, becoming 
brownish, soft, and pliable, the conditions perhaps 



I02 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

alternating for several days ; the skin refuses to be 
peeled, and in the older, fully opened specimens the 
centre of the cap is raised in a distinct 
True" tiny mound; gills, widely separated^ 
fairy-ring about ten or twelve to the inch at cir- 
cumference in average specimens, same 
color as cap, or paler, unequal in length, curving 
upward on reaching stem, thus '""free " from apparent 
contact with it ; stem, equal diameter, tough, fibrous, 
and tenacious, paler than gills, smooth to the base 
(no spines nor down) ; cup, none ; spores, white ; taste 
nutty ^ somewhat aromatic^ appetiziiig ; habitat usually 
on lawns or pastures. 

The "ring" was long involved in mystery, being at- 
tributed to moles, lightning, witchcraft, etc. ; and, 
clothed with popular superstition, has 
^"^fth^"* found its way into many folk-legends, 
mystic ring*' and has figured in the lore of elfs and 
goblins, to whom, in the absence of 
scientific knowledge, the strange, fungus-haunted cir- 
cle was referred, the " ring " being applied not merely 
to the circle of mushrooms themselves, but especially 
to the clearly defined ring of clear, fresh grass sur- 
rounding the central, more faded area. But the fair- 
ies no longer dance their moonlight rigadoon upon 
the charmed circle of the champignon, nor do the 
nimble elves " rear their midnight mushrooms " upon 
the rings of lush grass as of old, for science has 
stepped in and cleared up the mystery. The Rev. 
M. J. Berkeley, in his Outlines to British Fungology^ 
thus completely rescues the " fairy-ring " from the do- 
main of poetry and reduces it to prosaic fact : 



C/lbatadmitid ozeaJed 



VL/tTE yiii 

FAIRY RING CHAMPIGNON 

Harasmius oreades 

Pileus : Convex at first, becoming flat, with a mound at cen- 
tre, at juncture of stem ; texture, tough and pliable when 
moist, brittle in drying, alternating between these two 
conditions with rain and sun ; color, reddish buff at first, 
becoming cream colored when old, when it is usually 
quite wrinkled. 

Gills : Broad, and quite separated ; about ten or twelve to the 
inch at rim in large specimens; unequal in length; deep 
cream color; clearing the stem as they curve upward 
towards cap. 

Stem: Solid; equal diameter; tough and fibrous; naked and 
smooth at base. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Sweet, "nutty," and appetizing. 

Odor : Aromatic and pleasant. 

Habitat: Pastures and lawns, generally growing in rings or 
curved lines. 

Diameter of pileus, full expansion, one to two inches. 







- .J k 



Mi. ^^ 



w^ 



 AFA'^AA !, 



PLATE VIM 



f 





> 






Marasmius Oreades. 



AGARICS 107 

" These rings are sometimes of very ancient date, 
and attain such enormous dimensions as to be dis- 
tinctly visible on a hill-side for a great 
The "ring" distance. It is believed that they orig- 
expiained inate from a single fungus whose growth 
renders the soil immediately beneath 
unfit for its reproduction. The spawn, however, 
spreads all around, and in the second year produces 
a crop, whose spawn spreads again, the exhausted 
soil behind forbidding its return in that direction. 
Thus the circle is continually increased, and extends 
indefinitely till some cause intervenes to destroy it. 
If the spawn does not spread on all sides at first, an 
arc of a circle only is produced. The manure aris- 
ing from the dead fungi of former years makes the 
grass peculiarly vigorous around, so as to render the 
circle visible even when there is no external appear- 
ance of fungus, and the contrast is often stronger 
from that behind being killed by the old spawn. 
This mode of growth is far more common than is 
supposed, and may be observed constantly in our 
woods, where the spawn can spread only in the soil 
or among the leaves and decaying fragments which 
cover it." 

Many recipes are recommended for the preparation 
of this mushroom, some of which are given in a later 
chapter, including the method of des- 
Various iccation so commonly employed with 
recipes other species, and by which the cham- 
pignon may be kept for ready use 
throughout the winter months. 

In its fresh state, according to J. M. Berkeley, " When 



I08 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of good size and quickly grown, it is perhaps the best 
of all fungi for the table, whether carefully fried or 
stewed with an admixture of finely mixed herbs and 
a minute portion of garlic. It is at the same time 
tender and easy of digestion, and when once its use is 
known and its character ascertained, no species may 
be eaten with less fear. It is so common in some dis- 
tricts that bushels may be gathered in a day." 

FALSE OR POISON CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius urens 

There are two other species of mushroom which 
might possibly be mistaken for the above by the 
casual eye, but which are easily distinguishable on 
careful examination. The first of these is the false 
Champignon (Plate 9, fig. i). The most important 
distinguishing features are italicized. They will be 
seen to afford a striking contrast to the true edible 
species in these especial characters. 

The pileus is pale buff, convex, central mound ab- 
sent; the cap varies from one-half to one and a half 
inches in diameter, and is thus slightly smaller than 
the "true" fairy-ring; gills, yellowish brown, narrow, 
and crowded, twenty -five or more to the inch at cir- 
cumference in good specimen, curving upward at 
junction with stem, thus "free" from actual attach- 
ment; stem, solid, clothed with whitish down, espe- 
cially noticeable at the base ; cup, none ; tasle, acrid. 
This last quality alone should distinguish the species, 
which, moreover, usually grows in woods, though oc- 
casionally found upon the lawn in association with 
the edible species. 



C/lbazadmiud utetid 
Cy/bazadmiud pezonatud 



TUTE IX 

POISONOUS CHAMPIGNONS 

Harasmius urens 

Pileus: Pale buff in color; tough and fleshy; flat convex, 

becoming depressed and at length wrinkled ; one to two 

inches in diameter. 
Gills: Unequal, cream colored, becoming brownish; much 

closer together than in the true Champignon, hardly 

reaching the stem proper. 
Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, its surface more or less covered 

with white, flocculent down, and densely clothed with 

white down at base. 
Taste: Acrid. 
Habitat : Lawns and pastures, often in association with the 

edible Af. oreades, 

Harasmius peronatus 

Pileus: Reddish buff; convex slightly flattened at top, be- 
coming convex by expansion ; very wrinkled when old ; 
diameter, at full expansion, between one and two inches. 

Gills : Thin and crowded ; creamy, becoming light reddish 
brown, continuing slightly down stem by a short, abrupt 
curve. 

Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, densely clothed with stiff yel- 
low hairs at base. 

Taste: Acrid. 

Habitat: In woods, among dead leaves, etc 




41 




.\ 






1 w I- 'M , :<' '' ' R 'J NAT I J 



:U:,)> 



G.r.s: 



S^c-i. 



PLATE IX 




Poisonous Champignons. 

MARASMIUS URENS. M. PERONATU5. 



AGARICS I I 3 

POISONOUS FAIRY-RING MUSHROOM 
Marasmius peronatus 

The other false species (Plate 9, fig. 2) still more 
closely simulates the "fairy-ring," but may be identi- 
fied by the growth of spines at the base of the stalk. 
The gills are also annexed to the stalk by a small, 
sharp, recurved tooth. Like the previous spurious 
species, it is found in woods, and is rarely to be seen 
in association with the true Champignon or in its 
peculiar haunt. 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 
Agaricus {Lepiotd) procerus 

One of the most readily recognized of our wild 
mushrooms is the pasture or parasol Agaric [Aga- 
ricus procerus), a cluster of which in 

, , various stages of development is shown 
Description . t^, t  r 11 1 

m Plate 10. It is frequently abundant 

in pasture - lands, and is occasionally 
found in woods. Its conspicuous cap sometimes 
measures six inches or more in diameter, the centre 
being abruptly raised in a mound. The pileus is at 
first egg-shaped. The color of the full specimen is 
pale -brown or buff, more or less spotted with darker 
brown shaggy patches, generally arranged in some- 
what concentric order. The skin of the cap is thick 
and somewhat tough, especially in drying. The gills 
are almost pure white in early specimens, slightly 
creamy later, and unequal in length. Stem, often 
six or eight inches high, proportionately slender, and 
of equal diameter, bulbous at base, but without a 



114 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



cup, hollow, fibrous, finely speckled or streaked with 
brown, and deeply inserted in the cap, at which 
juncture, by a narrow flat space, as shown in the 
section drawing below, it is distinctly free from con- 
tact with the gills. The remnants of the veil are in 
the form of a more or less detachable ring encircling 




the stem. The spores are white and odorous. The 
flavor, when raw, is distinctly nutty, aromatic, sweet, 
and palatable ; when dry, slightly pungent. 

This species is cosmopolitan, and is a great favor- 
ite on the Continent  in France being known as the 
Coulemelle, in Italy as Bubbola mag- 
giore, and in Spain as Cogomelos. It 
is by many considered as the choicest 
of all mushrooms, and is indeed a deli- 
cious morsel when quickly broiled over coals, seasoned 
to taste with salt and pepper and butter melted in 
the gills, and served hot on buttered toast. Other 
recipes are noted in a later chapter. The scurfy 
spots and stems should be removed before cooking. 



Simple 
recipe 



azicud pzocezud 



TMTE X 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 

Agarieus procerus 

Pileus : At first egg-shaped, finally expanded like a parasol 
four to seven inches in diameter, the apex raised in a 
prominent mound or * * umbo. " Color pale buff or creamy, 
occasionally almost pure white, more or less regularly 
spotted with the brown shaggy patches of the separating 
epidermis, which remains of the pale brown color on the 
"umbo." Skin thick and somewhat tough; substance 
hygrometric, drying and swelling naturally in its haunts. 

Gills: Unequal in length; crowded; at first almost white, 
finally becoming creamy or pale buff. 

Stem: Tall, slender, equal, hollow, and fibrous; bulbous at 
base, but with no sign of a *'cup;" separated from the 
gills above by a distinct space ; surface streaked and 
speckled with brown, encircled by a loose ring. 

Spores: White, and, like the whole plant, fragrant aromatic 
 more so, perhaps, than any other fungus. 

Taste: Distinctly sweet and ** nutty," slightly pungent when 
dry. 

Habitat: Pastures and fields, occasionally woods. 

Season: Summer. 



*-v 



\\ 



PLATE X 







i."* 



Agaricus Procerus. 



AGARICS 119 

This species is especially free from the swarming 
grubs too commonly found in mushrooms. It is high- 
ly hygrometric, dries naturally even 
Hygrometric while standing in the pasture, in which 
properties condition it is decidedly aromatic in 
fragrance and nutty sweet to the taste, 
as described. Indeed, it is sometimes called "the 
nut mushroom." Absorbing moisture from the dews 
and rains, it again becomes pulpy and enlarged, thus 
alternating for days between its juicy and dry con- 
dition, in which latter state it may be gathered and 
kept for winter use. It is a palatable morsel at all 
times, but especially in the prime of its first expan- 
sion, each successive alternation, with its gradual loss 
of spores, affecting its full flavor. 

THE RUSSULA GROUP 

Among the wild species of mushrooms which the 
novice might possibly mistake for the common "mush- 
room " of the markets  which is popularly supposed 
to be the only edible variety, as distinguished from 
"toadstools"  is the Russula group. They are ex- 
tremely frequent in our woods from spring to late 
autumn, and have many features in common. Their 
caps vary in color from a gray -green, suggesting 
cheese-mould, to olive-red, scarlet-red. 
Generic and purplish. The gills are generally 
characters of the same length, or practically so, 
occasionally double - branched, begin- 
ning at the stem and usually extending to the rim of 
the cap, at which portion they are covered by the 



120 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

mere skin of the pileus, a slightly fluted appearance 
being observable from above, which indicates the lo- 
cation of the radiating laminae below (Plate 12, fig. 6). 

The stem may be white or cream-colored, or perhaps 
stained or mottled with the color of the cap. 

There are at least four of these edible Russulae 
that we are certain of meeting in our walks in the 
woods : The green Russula {H. virescens), with its mot- 
tled cap of mouldy or sage green ; the various -gilled 
Russula (7?. heterophylla\ varying in the 
Principal lengths of its gill plates; the purple 
species Russula (i?. lepida\ whose cap varies 
from bright red to dull purple; and the 
red Russula (i?. alutaced), which presents a variety of 
shades of red, from bright to dull. Having once 
identified the Russula as a group, or the common 
characteristics of the genus, we may take our pick 
from all of these delicious species for the table ; but 
we must avoid one other member of the genus, also 
quite common, and which frequently masquerades in 
the guise of some of the bright red varieties above 
mentioned. This is the R. emetica, whose obnoxious 
qualities are indicated by its classical surname, and 
which will be separately considered. 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 
Agaricus {Russula) virescens 

Our first species, the green Russula, is to be found 
throughout the summer in hard-wood groves, and is 
apt to frequent the same immediate locality from year 
to year. I know one such veritable mushroom bed 
in the woods near by, where I am almost certain of 



AGARICS 



121 



my mess of Russulae almost any day in their season. 
This species is shown in its various stages of develop- 
ment and also in section in Plate 1 1. Its substance is 
firm and solid creamy white. The pileus, at first al- 
most hemispherical, as it pushes its 
Specific way through the earth, at length be- 
characters comes convex, with a slight hollow at 
the centre, and later ascends in a gentle 
slope from centre to rim. Its color is sage green, or 
mouldy green, usually quite unbroken in tint at cen- 
tre, but more or less disconnected into spots as it ap- 




RUSSULA VIRESCENS 
(Showing; mottled cap of occasional speciinen. and variations in j;ills. i evtn ; ^ forked: 3 dtmidiaU.) 

preaches the circumference by the gradual expansion 
of the cap, the creamy undertint appearing like net- 
work between the separated patches of color. The 
substance of the cap becomes gradually thinned tow- 
ards the circumference, where the mere cuticle con- 
nects the gills, the position of these gills being ob- 
servable from above in a faint fluting of the edge, a 
peculiarity of all the Russulse. The cuticle peels 



122 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

readily some distance from the edge, leaving the 
projecting tips of the gills exposed in a row of comb- 
like teeth, but usually adheres towards the centre of 
cap. The gills, with rare exceptions, are all of the 
same length, white or creamy in color, firm and thick, 
but very brittle^ easily broken into fragments by a rude 
touch, a characteristic of all the group ; spores, white. 
The stem is short, stout, and solid, and usually tapers 
towards the base. There is no vestige of a cup or 
veil at any stage of growth. 

A fine specimen of the green Russula should 
measure five inches in diameter when fully open, but 
three inches is probably the average size. 

When once acquainted with the above as a type 
of the Russula group, noting the firm substance, 
straight, equal gills, and their brittle 
The noxious texture ; the sweet, nutty flavor com- 
Ru8sul mon to all the edible species, these be- 
come readily identified, the noxiotis 
Russulae, as in the brilliant pink or scarlet R. emetica 
(Plate 13), being acrid zxiA peppery to the taste. 

In an auspicious season and in a congenial habitat 
 usually an open wood with scant undergrowth and 
preferably raked clean of dead leaves  the green Rus- 
sula is often abundant. Familiarity even with this 
one species will often afford a sufficien- 
Qreen Russula ^y ^f fungus food during its season. A 
sufficient lady amateur mycophagist of the writ- 
er's acquaintance, whose home is locat- 
ed at the border of such a wood as is above described, 
and who is especially fond of the green Russula, is 
never at a loss for this especially prized tidbit as a 



c/ouddulcL:> vizedcend 



TL/ITE XI 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 

Russula virescens 

Pileus: Very firm; solid, dull, dry-surfaced, as with a fine 
** flock"; mouldy green or creamy, with sage-greenish 
broken spots more united at centre; occasionally entirely 
green, with warty patches of darker hue. At first glob- 
ular, then convex with flat top, at length expanded and 
hollowed towards centre. 

Gills : Pale, creamy white; commonly all of equal length, btiit 
frequently unequal and forked; very brittle, breaking in 
pieces at a rude touch. 

Stem: Solid; creamy white; no veil. 

Taste : Very mild, sweet, and nut-like. 

Habitat: In woods July-September. 

Diameter of pileus, ideal specimen, four inches. 



RlTsiJi a , 



 .. IJ. f 

l-ut 
.1 in 



PLATE XI 




RUSSULA ViRESCENS. 



AGARICS 



127 



reward for her daily stroll among the trees. A vis- 
itor may often see upon her buffet a small glass dish 
filled with the mushrooms, nicely scraped and cut in 
pieces  an ever-present relish between meals. For 
even in their natural state, as she discriminatingly 
says, they are " as sweet as chestnuts." This is espe- 
cially the case with the " buttons " or younger speci- 
mens. 

PURPLE RUSSULA 

Russula lepida 

This, perhaps the most common species, is figured 
in Plate 12, fig. 3. It corresponds with the fore- 
going in size as well as in general shape, firm text- 




RUSSULA LEPIDA -CONTORTED AND CRACKED PILEUS 



ure, and friable nature of the gills. The pileus of 
this species frequently assumes eccentric shapes, or is 
often cracked, as seen in the accompanying cut. Its 

8 



128 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

name of " purple " is probably local in its application, 
as it is known also as the red Russula, neither of 

which titles is at all distinctive. In- 
Color off cap deed, the color of the cap is often a mis- 
misleading leading character for identification, as a 

given species may vary greatly in this 
particular. This feature is thus generally omitted in 
purely scientific descriptions, more dependence being 
placed upon the tint of the flesh and that of the spore 
surface, the laminae or gills, which are more perma- 
nent and reliable as a character. Thus, in the present 
species, R. lepida, the tint of the pileus or cap is often 
of a deep dull purplish red or ruddy wine color. An- 
other authority describes it as violet -red and cherry- 
red or slightly tawny, paler at circumference. Berke- 
ley, in his British Fungi, omits any reference to the 
color of the cap, as evidently of little value in identifi- 
cation. But from numerous examples gathered by 
the present writer, the color may, I think, be safely 

averaged under the general hue of dark. 

Specific subdued red inclining to maroon. The 

characters surface is dull, as with a fine dust or 

plum-like bloom, and thus without pol- 
ish. Occasional specimens appear almost velvety in 
the sheen of surface. But the tints of the flesh and 
the gills are always uniform, the lea/lets or gills being 
pure white or very slightly creamy, continuous from 
stem to rim or occasionally forked, not crowded, 
curved in outline in open specimen, with broadest 
width near the circumference of cap. The flesh is 
white or slightly creamy, firm and compact as in the 
former species, with the same variations of outline 



Sdibiey ffbuddulcB 



TLATE XII 

EDIBLE RUSSUL/E 

1. Russula heterophylla Variable Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; greenish or pinkish -gray; at first con- 
vex, with flat top, ultimately rising from centre to rim. 

Gills: Milk-white; extremely brittle, like all the Russulae, 
and easily crumbled (see Fig. 7) ; long, short, and forked 
intermixed. Fig. 5. 

Stem: Milk-white; solid. 

Taste : Mild and sweet. 

2. Russula alutacea Yellow- gilled Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; shape as in above; color very variable, 
from bright to deep red; cuticle thin at rim, where the 
lines of junction of gills are readily discernible from above 
by the depressed channels. Fig. 6. 

Gills : Equal, brittle, broad ; yellow - buflf color in all stages. 
Fig. 4. 

Stem: Solid; milk-white, commonly stained or streaked with 
red towards the base. 

Taste : Sweet and nut-like. 

3. Russula leplda Purple Russula 

Pileus: In shape like above, varying in color from bright 
red to dull, subdued purplish, with a distinct bloom. 

Gills: White, broad, principally even, occasionally forked as 
in Fig. I ; like the above, extremely brittle. Fig. 7. 

Stem: Solid; white, usually stained and streaked with pink. 
Fig. 8. 

Taste: Sweet, and similar to above. 

Average diameter of extended pileus of each of these spe- 
cies about three and one-half inches; veil absent in each. 
Habitat : All grow in woods July-September. 



^'t-T 



I 




/- '^a. 



iUi 



A :ri 



;. I 



PLATE XM 




Edible Russulae. 

RUSSULA HETEROPHYLLA. RALUTACEA. R LEPIDA. 



I . 



i:.: 



! I 1, 



^ .;.! 



PLATE Xll 







5 



Edible Russulae. 

RUSSULA HETEROPHYLLA. RALUTACEA. R LEPIDA. 



AGARICS 133 

from early stage to maturity. The stem is white, 
solid, and generally more or less tinted or streaked 
vertically with rose or pale crimson (Fig. 8). The 
taste of the flesh is sweet and appetizing. 

YELLOW-GILLED RUSSULA 
Russula alutacea 

Our third example of the Russula is one which is 
also quite common in our woods, and which might in 
the extreme variation of its color be confounded with 
the last by a careless observer, as indeed both might 
be still further confounded with the poisonous mem- 
ber bearing the red tint, and which will be hereafter 
considered. The Russula alutacea (PL 12, figs. 2, 4, 6) 
is a delicious species. In general size 
BoUnicai and contour it resembles the foregoing. 
characters The color of the cap varies from bright- 
red to blood -red or even approaching 
the purplish red of the preceding species, lightening 
towards edge. But we have a clear distinction in the 
color of the gills^ which are distinctly yellowish^ pale 
ochre, or nankeen, in all stages of the mushroom, or 
even tawny in old specimens. They are, moreover, 
usually all of even lengthy being straight and continu- 
ous from stem to circumference of pileus, none of 
them forked, their juncture with the edge of the cap 
being clearly manifest from above by the thinness of 
the cuticle. The flesh is white, stem firm and solid, 
white and smooth, often tinted with pink or red. The 
flesh of the cap often appears pinkish upon peeling 
the cuticle from the edge. The taste resembles that 
of the previous species  sweet and nutty. 



134 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

VARIOUS -GILLED RUSSULA 
Russula heterophylla 

Growing in company with both of the above is 
frequently to be seen another species, which is some- 
what protean in its accomplishments of color, but 
which in the character of its gills, as implied in its 
scientific name, gives us a ready means 
Botanical of identification  heterophylla  various- 
characters leaved (PI. 12, figs, i and 5). In the pre- 
vious examples of Russulae the gills have 
been commonly straight, continuous from stem to 
edge of cap, or more rarely forked and continuous in 
the bifurcation. In the present species we have both 
of these conditions, combined also with what are 
called dimidiate gills, or shorter leaflets, which reach, 
perhaps, only half-way from rim to stem, all crowded 
together and alternating. The color of the cap is 
very variable  occasionally pinkish-ash color or dull 
pinkish-gray inclining to green or olive or even red. 
Its surface is smoother than in the foregoing species, 
being almost polished, and the pellicle of the cap is 
usually noticeably thinner. Having found such a 
specimen, possessing also all the other attributes of 
shape, firmness of flesh, and dry brittleness of gills, 
if tasted and found sweet in flavor it may be eaten 
without the slightest fear, and like its congeners will 
be found a delicious morsel, whether nibbled raw, as 
the squirrels are so fond of doing, or served hot on 
toast as an entree, or otherwise prepared according 
to taste. 

Various methods prevail in the culinary prepara^ 



AGARICS 135 

tion of the Russula mushroom, many of which are 

suggested among the receipts in another chapter, but 

broiling is perhaps the most simple and 

'^b^Ued* generally satisfactory. Having thor- 

Russuia oughly cleaned the top, or, if desired, 

peeled the cuticle, place the mushrooms 

on a gridiron over a hot fire, gills downward, for a 

few moments, sufficient to allow them to be heated 

through without scorching. Then reverse them and 

repeat the process, melting a small piece of butter in 

the gills and salting and peppering to taste; serve 

hot on toast or in the platter with roast beef or fowl. 

They are also delicious fried in the ordinary way, 

either with or without batter. 

The Russula is particularly in favor among the 
fungus-eating insects, whose rapid development and 




AN INFESTED SPECIMEN 



voracity are consistently related to the ephemeral 
nature of their food. A Russula specimen showing 



136 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

barely a trace of insect life when gathered will some- 
times prove literally honey-combed and totally unfit 
for food in the space of twenty -four hours. It is 
therefore well to cut each specimen in sections be- 
fore venturing upon its preparation for the table, and 
to profit thereby according to our individual fastidi- 
ousness, as suggested on page 37. 

While the above esculent species of Russulae are 
being familiarized by the tyro, he must now be put 
on guard against a certain dangerous species of the 
group, which is sure to claim his attention, being 
especially fond of the good company of its cousins, 
and likely to do some mischief through its frequent 
disguise. 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 
Russula emetica 

The variability in the coloring of the three edible 

species already described brings them occasionally 

into such close similarity with the 

The poisonous gamut of color of the on^ common poi- 

Russuia sonous species of the group that this 

enemy must also be familiarized ere we 

venture too confidently upon our Russula diet. The 

Russula emetica (Plate 13), as its name implies, is at 

war with luxurious gastronomy, but its distinction 

from the harmless varieties is, after all, quite simple. 

Its frequent general similarity to R. lepida and R. 

alutacea is such that the amateur should hardly rely 

upon the botanical characters alone. There is but 

one safe, as it is a simple, rule for him : He should 

taste every specimen of his Russula of whatever kind 



cJouddulao emeticcLy 



TLATE XIII 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 

Russula emetlca 

Pilcus: Expansion two to four inches; color varying from 
pale bright pink to deep scarlet; very smooth. 

Gills: Broad (in section), mostly equal in length, and contin- 
uous from edge of cap to stem ; not crowded ; white. 

Stem : White or pinkish. 

Spores : White, like all Russulae. 

Taste : Hot and peppery. 

Habitat : Woods, with other Russulae. 

Season : July-September. 

Note.  While, for conservative reasons, the poisonous reputation of this 
species is here perpetuated, it is quite probable that such condemnation is un- 
warranted, except as to the raw mushroom. The peppery tang and demoral- 
izing powers are now claimed to be dissipated in cooking, and the Emetica will 
doubtless soon be more generally included with its congeners among the es- 
culents, thus bringing the entire genus /^ussu/a into the friendly group. 

Captain Charles Mcllvaine is largely responsible for this conversion in favor 
of Emetica. His individual experiments warrant him in pronouncing this species 
** as good as the rest " when cooked. Others of the writer's acquaintance, fol- 
lowing his example, echo his opinion. 



# 



^ 




PLATE XIII 




RUSSULA Emetica. 

(POISONOUS) 



AGARICS 141 

before venturing upon its use as food. All of the 
sweet and palatable Russulae are esculent. When 

he chances upon the /?. emetica he will 

A warning be aware of its important demoraliz- 

tang ing resources in the peppery-hot tingle 

of his tongue, which, if not instantly 
perceived, will within the space of a minute assert 
itself distinctly. All such acrid specimens should 
be excluded, as a single one would be sufficient to 
bring an ignominious denouement to an otherwise 
delectable feast. In the typical /?. emetica the pileus 
is a bright, brilliant red  which, as we have said, 
is very variable, as indicated in our plate  often 
polished and shining ; the gills broad, equals straight^ 
continuous, not crowded, and white, as is the flesh be- 
neath the peeled cuticle. The stem is white or pink. 
The cap will average, perhaps, three inches in diam- 
eter, though occasionally reaching the dimensions in- 
dicated by the marks in plate, or even larger. 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 
Agaricus ostreatus 

What a mass of nutritious food do we occasionally 
pass in innocence or spurn with our foot upon the old 
stump or fallen log in the woods !  a neglected feast, 
indeed, if the specialists on edible fungi are to be be- 
lieved ; a feast, in truth, for a big family, if we chance 
upon even an average cluster of the " vegetable oys- 
ter," which is pictured in Plate 14. 

I have commonly observed this species, the Agaru 
cus ostreatus, in the autumn, and this is the season 
given for its appearance in Europe by the authorities; 



142 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



but according to certain American specialists, notably 
Charles Mcllvaine, it is common in our woods in 

spring, even as early as March, and 

A  vegetable through the summer. It is usually 

oyster" found in large clusters, similar to our 

illustration, growing upon decaying 
stumps and the trunks of various trees. The " oys- 
ter " is a gilled mushroom which grows sidewise from 
its position, the stem being usually lateral and very 
short, though occasionally quite prolonged, the two 
varieties being indicated in the accompanying cut. 




AGARICUS OSTREATUS Variations in Form 

The individual mushroom m^y be five or six inch- 
es in breadth, a cluster affording several pounds in 
weight. The color of the upper surface is light 
brown or buff, varying to yellowish-ashen, according 
to age, and the gills are dirty white of various 
lengths ; spores white. 

This species and the one following belong to the 
subdivision of the typical genus Agaricus, called 
Leucospori  white spored. The division has many 



artcud odtzeatud 



TLATE XIl^ 

THE OYSTER MUSHRCMDM 

Agaricus ostreatus 

Pileus : Four to six inches in diameter ; smooth. Color, dull, 

light yellowish, sometimes pale ochre or grayish. 
Gills: Dingy white; of various lengths, extending down the 

stem. 
Stem: Short or obsolete; on the side of pileus. 
Spores: White. 
Taste : Agreeable ; suggesting the flavor of the cooked oyster; 

texture tough in older specimens. 
Odor: Pleasant. 
Habitat: On old tree trunks and fallen logs, occasionally in 

dense masses. 



?.<^ 



.1 



'i^^ 






-^: 






I ; 



i' t'v 



i'\ i:i 



PLATE XIV 




Agaricus Ostreatus. 



\'0C 



.\ in 



PLATE XIV 




Agaricus Ostreatus. 



AGARICS 



147 



sub- genera. The particular sub -genus in which 
these are included is the Pleurotus, or side - foot 
mushrooms, as they are sometimes called. 

Another earlier species with which A. ostreatus 
might be confounded i^A. euosmus) has spores of a 
rosy pinkish or lilac hue, a sufficient identification, 
and is accounted injurious. 




THIRTY POUNDS OF VEGETABLE MEAT 



The clustering growth of the " Oyster Mushroom '' 
frequently attains huge proportions, as will be seen 
from the above reproduction of a photograph sent to 
me by a correspondent. The dimensions of the mass 



148 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

are easily judged by the height of the gun leaning 
against the tree, and introduced for comparison. 

This " Oyster Mushroom " should be gathered in 
its young state, and may be served in various ways. 
Broiling over the coals, gills upward, 
Broiled seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt 
recipe during the cooking, is a favorite meth- 
od with most of the Agarics, but a well- 
known fungus epicure claims that this mushroom 
" may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, and 
will be found fine eating." 

The average specimen will probably prove more 
ashen in hue than those represented in my plate. 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 
Agaricus ulmartus 

This edible species of mushroom, allied to the 
foregoipg, and which grows in similar clusters on the 
elm-tree, is the Agaricus ulmartus (Plate 
Appetizing 1 5). While much difference of opinion 
qualities prevails regarding the appetizing qual- 
ities of this mushroom or its right to 
a place among the esculents, this varying individual 
judgment has doubtless often had direct reference 
to the character of the particular specimen chosen 
for trial. Dr. M. C. Cooke is not disposed to place a 
high appreciation upon its qualities. " It has been 
customary," he says, " to regard this and some of its 
allies [presumably in allusion to the preceding] as 
alimentary, but there is no doubt that they could all 
be very well spared from the list." Opposed to this 
uncomplimentary aspersion is the testimony of other 



C2^azicud ulmazlud 



TLATE Xy 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 

Agaricus ulmarius 

Pileus: From three to five inches in diameter. Color, pale 
yellow or buff; smooth in young specimen, fissured, 
spotted, and leathery at maturity. Flesh in section white. 

Gills : Dingy white, becoming tawny at maturity, extending 
down the stem. 

Stem : Various in length, occasionally very short and attached 
to side of pileus; generally longer as in Plate, and *'off 
centre"; white; substance solid. 

Spores: White. 

Taste : Suggesting fish when cooked. 

Odor: Pleasant. 

Habitat : Trunk of elm or from surfaces of broken or sawn 
branches. Often growing in dense masses covering sev- 
eral square feet. 



*%'. 



.jt '  . -. -': 



PLATE XV 




Agaricus Ulmarius. 



AGARICS 153 

authorities who claim that "it is most delectable" 
and **a delicious morsel." Certain it is that in its 
young and tender condition only is it fit for food, as 
it becomes progressively tough in consistency tow- 
ards maturity. 

As its specific name implies  Ulmus  this mush- 
room is devoted to the elm, upon whose trunk and 

branches it may be often seen, either 
Massive singly, which is rare, or in great dense 
growth masses, sometimes covering a space of 

several square feet, often, unfortunately, 
at an inaccessible height from the ground. I have 
in my possession a photograph which has been sent 
to me by an interested correspondent representing 
a dead tree trunk, apparently a foot in diameter, 
densely covered to a height of seven feet from the 
ground with a mass of the A. ulmarius  and pre- 
sumably representing thirty or forty pounds in weight. 
This species is most frequently seen on apparently 
healthy branches, or growing from the wood of a 
severed limb. Its season is late summer and au- 
tumn. 

A small cluster of these mushrooms is seen in 
Plate 15. They afford a good refutation of the old- 
time discriminating " ban," which excluded all mush- 
rooms which grow "sidewise," or " upon wood." The 

individual mushroom of this species is 
Botanical a horizontal grower, sometimes with a 
characters barely noticeable or obsolete stem; in 

other specimens this portion being 
quite distinct and an inch or more in length, and 
firm and solid in texture. The upper surface is pale 



154 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

yellow or buff, smooth in. the younger specimens, be- 
coming disfigured by spots and fissures with age. 
The flesh is white, as also are the gills, though more 
dingy, becoming tawny- tinted with maturity, when 
the entire mushroom becomes quite leathery in sub- 
stance, and might well awaken doubts as to its di- 
gestibility. The spores are white. 

This fungus is known in some sections as the 
" Fish Mushroom," referring to its peculiar flavor, the 
appropriateness of which appellation is suggested in 
the incident related by Mr. Palmer, and quoted in 
my last chapter. 

SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 
Coprinus coniatus 

Upon a certain spot on the lawn of one of my 
neighbors, year after year, without fail, there springs 

up a most singular crop. For the first 
A plebeian two seasons of its appearance it was 
toadstool looked upon with curious awe by the 

proprietors of the premises, and usually 
ignominiously spurned with the foot by the undis- 
criminating and destructive small boy. One day I 
observed about five pounds of this fungus delicacy 
thus scattered piecemeal about the grass, and my 
protest has since spared the annual crop for my sole 
benefit. It usually makes its appearance in late 
September, and continues in intermittent crops until 
November. A casual observer happening upon a 
cluster of the young mushrooms might imagine that 
he beheld a convention of goose eggs standing on 
end in the grass, their summits spotted with brown. 



(ooptinud comatud 



TLATE X^I 

THE SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 

Coprinus comatus 

Pileus: Egg-shaped in young specimens; at length more 
cylindrical, and finally expanded, melting away in inky 
fluid. Color, creamy white, becoming black at edge with 
advancing age, as is also the case with the shaggy points 
upon its surface, which generally cover the pileus. 

Gills : Crowded ; equal in length ; creamy white in young 
specimens, becoming pink, brown, and finally black, and 
always moist. 

Stem : Cylindrical ; creamy white ; hollow, or with a loose 
cottony pith. 

Spores : Black, falling away in drops. 

Taste : Sweet, which applies only to the pink or white con- 
dition, at which time alone the species is considered es- 
culent. 

Habitat: Lawns, pastures, gardens, and rich grounds in the 
neighborhood of barns, etc. ; usually grows in dense 
clusters. 

Diameter of cylindrical pileus in average specimens, two 
inches. 

One of the most easily identified of all mushrooms. 




COPRINUS COMATUS. 



AGARICS 



159 



If one of them is examined, it is seen to be a 
curious short-stemmed mushroom which never fully 
expands (Plate 16), perhaps five inches high, and 
whose surface is curiously decorated with shaggy 



"V^x 




'9 : 7T%# 




v.# 



A DINNER FOR A FAMILY 



patches. In its early stages it is white and singular- 
ly egglike, but later becomes brownish, its curved 
shaggy points finally changing to almost black. The 
concealed gills are crowded and of equal length, at 



I60 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

first creamy white, but gradually changing through 
a whole gamut of pinks, sepias, and browns until they 
become black, at which time the whole substance of 
the cap melts on its elongated stalk  
Inky deliquesces into an unsightly inky past e^ 

deliquescence which besmears the grass and ultimate- 
ly leaves only the bare white stem 
standing in its midst, a peculiar method of dissem- 
ination which distinguishes the group Coprinus, of 
which it is the most conspicuous example. This is 
the " shaggy-mane " mushroom, Coprinus cotnatus, the 
specific name signifying a wig  "from the fancied 
resemblance to a wig on a barber's block." Even 
a brief description is unnecessary with its portrait 
before us. It is a savory morsel, and it cannot be 
confounded with any other fungus. It frequently 
grows in such dense, crowded masses that a single 
group will afford a dinner for a family. 

It should be gathered while the gills are in the 
early white or pink stage, and may be prepared for 
the table in various ways, either broiled or fried, as 
described for previous species, or stewed with milk, 
or otherwise served according to the culinary hints in 
our later chapter, in which a special recipe for this 
species is found. 

In a recent stroll down the main street of Litch- 
field, Connecticut, I observed, over the fence in a 
front door-yard of a summer resident, just such a 
dense cluster of the shaggy Coprinus, the proprietor 
of the premises, an appreciative habitue of Delmoni- 
co's at other seasons of the year, complacently read- 
ing his morning paper in his piazza, little dreaming 



(B. 



opztnud atzameiitaztud 



TLATE Xl^II 

THE INKY TOADSTOOL 

Coprinus atramentarius 

Pileus: Fleshy, moist; at first egg-shaped ; of a Quaker-drab, 
dirty white, or even pale brownish color; at length be- 
coming expanded, umbrella -like, when it melts away in 
inky drops. 

Gills: Broad and crowded, not adhering to stem at top; 
creamy white in young species, becoming pinkish gray, 
and at length black. 

Stem: Firm; white; hollow. 

Spores: Black; shed in liquid drops. 

Taste : Sweet, as is also the odor, which applies to its early 
stage only. 

Habitat : About old decaying stumps and rotten wood, gar- 
dens, rich lawns, and barn -yards; usually growing in 
clusters, often very dense. 

Diameter of pileus, young state, two inches. 



di'TR'-i 






r:Mv. 



PLATE XVII 




COPRINUS Atramentarius. 



AGARICS 165 

of the twenty pounds of dainty diet, fit for a king, so 
easily available. 

INKY MUSHROOM 
Coprinus atramentarius 

In frequent company with the foregoing will be 
found another allied species, Coprinus atramentarius 
(Plate 17), with the same inky propensities, which is 
scarcely less delicious as an article of food. In this 
species the shaggy feature is absent, there being 
merely a few obscure slightly raised stains at the 
summit, of a brownish color. The stem 
Botanical is white and hollow. The surface of 
characters the pileus is smooth and of a Quaker- 
drab color, occasionally dirty-white, or 
with a slight shade of ochre, moist to the touch, dark- 
ened by rubbing. In the eatable stage the caps are 
drooping, as shown in the cluster on the plate, while 
the mature specimen expands considerably before its 
inky deliquescence. Its texture when young is firm, 
and the thick gray cuticle peels readily, leaving an 
appetizing nutty-flavored morsel, delicious even when 
raw. The inky Agaric is frequent about barn-yards, 
gardens, and old stumps in woods, and usually grows 
in such crowded masses that the central individuals 
are compressed into hexagonal shape. Like the 
previous variety, it should be collected for food while 
its gills are in the white or pink stage. 

Cordier claims that all the species of Coprinus are 
eatable at this stage. The profusion in which they 
occasionally abound renders it often a simple matter 
to obtain a bushel of them in a few minutes. 



1 66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Like the foregoing, a large cluster of these mush- 
rooms leaves a most unsightly spot on the lawn. A 
diluted solution of this melting sub- 
Coprinus Stance, as Cooke assures us, has been 
^nk used " to replenish the ink-bottle. The 

resemblance is so complete that it may 
readily be employed as a substitute, all that is required 
being to boil and strain it, and add a small quantity 
of corrosive sublimate to prevent its turning rnouldy." 
It may also be employed as pigment. It is, indeed, 
quite possible to paint the portrait of Coprinus with 
its own dark sepia, as the author has personally 
demonstrated. (See head -piece to " Illustrations.") 

MILKY MUSHROOM 
Lactaritis deliciosus 

Prominent among the fungi which give unmistak- 
able characters for their identification is the genus 
Lactarius, or milky mushrooms, another group of the 
agarics or gilled fungi, from which we will select for 

our first example the Lactarius delicu 

Orange-milk osus, or orange-milk Agaric (Plate i8). 

Agaric The figure will itself almost serve to 

identify it in its advanced open stage. 
Having found a specimen resembling our illustration, 
and anywhere from three to five inches in expanse, 
its general upper surface dull reddish- orange in 
color, more or less plainly banded with darker red, 
it is safe to predict that when its surface or gills are 
broken an exudation of milky juice will follow. If 
this exudation is orange or deep yellow in hue, grad- 
ually turning greenish on exposure, the identification 



J^actaziud deiicioduA 



TLATE Xym 

THE ORANGE-MILK MUSHROOM 

Lactarius deliciosus 

Pileus : Diameter three to five inches. Color varying from 
yellow to dull orange, or even brownish yellow with 
mottled zones of deeper color, especially in younger 
plants ; outline at first convex, ultimately somewhat fun- 
nel-shaped ; surface usually smooth and moist. 

Flesh : Brittle ; creamy, more or less stained with orange. 

Gills: Orange; generally clearer in hue than the pileus; when 
bruised, exuding a copious milky juice of orange color, 
becoming greenish in drying. 

Stem: Paler than pileus; hollow; occasionally spotted with 
orange or greenish stains from bruises. 

Spores: White. 

Taste : Slightly peppery. 

Habitat: Woods, pine-groves, and swamps. 

Season : July-September. 






1^ : M li- ]^ 



'"-i vvitli 



PLATE XVIII 




^ f 



A 



Lactarius Deliciosus. 



T> 



AGARICS 171 

is complete, and we have the orange-milk L. delicio- 
sus, of which an authority says, "It really deserves its 
name, being the most delicious mushroom known." 
W. G. Smith goes still further in its praise, assuring 
us that " when cooked with taste and care it is one 
of the greatest delicacies of the vegetable kingdom." 
The taste of this species when raw is slightly acrid, 
but this quality disappears in the cooking. 

One other species of Lactarius, Z. volemum, may 
properly find a place in this work as being easily rec- 
ognized. In general shape it resembles 

i..?^"^ i ^ deliciosus. The top is of a rich sien- 
white-mllk 1 , , ,  1 , 

species na golden hue; the gills are crowded. 

The milk is white as it first falls from 
the fracture, becoming dull dark -reddish^ and having 
a mild, pleasant taste; gills white, at length yellowish 
or buff -colored. This species is esculent. 

Other species are accounted edible, even one  the 
peppery Lactarius, L. piperatus  a pure-white variety, 

whose copious exudations of white milk 

Peppery ^,jjj almost blister the lips, an acrid 
white- milk \ \ 

species property which is claimed by Curtis, 

Smith, and others to be dispelled in 

cooking, by which treatment it becomes delicious and 

wholesome. 

This species may reach a diameter of seven inches, 

its shape at first rounded, convex, then flat, concave, 

and finally funnel-shaped, as in many of the species. 

But its decidedly ardent tang in the raw state, as 

reminiscent from my own experience, warns me not 

to dwell too enthusiastically upon its merits in my 

limited selection of desirable esculent species. 



172 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



THE CHANTARELLE 
Cantharellus cibarius 

Bearing somewhat the shape of the Lactarius, but 
having its own distinguishing features, is the Chan- 
tarelle (Plate 19). 

The "Agarics," as already described on page 79, are 
distinguished by the feature of the gills, or thin lam- 
inated curtains  the hymenium  upon 
Fluted which the spores are produced, and 
8iii from which they are shed beneath the 
mushroom. These gills vary in thick- 
ness and number in the various species, and in one 
genus are so short, thick, swollen, and branched as 
to give rather the effect of turgid veins than gills, as 

shown in the accom- 
panying sectional 
drawing. We occa- 
sionally come upon 
one of these mush- 
rooms in our walks, 
usually in the woods. 
When it first appears 
the cap is rounded, 
and the rim folded 
inward towards the 
stem ; but in mature 
specimens it assumes 
the flat or, later, the 
cup-shaped form shown in Plate 19. 

A fungus thus formed is a Chantarelle, or Can- 
tharellus, and is readily identified. Any specimen 




SECTION or CHANTARELLE 



(oantkazeUud cibaztud 



TLATE XIX 

THE CHANTARELLE 

Cantharellus cibarius 

Pileus: At first convex, later flat; three to five inches in di- 
ameter, with central hollow, and finally almost funnel 
form. Color, bright to deep yellow above and below. 

Gills : Shallow and fluted, resembling swollen veins, branch- 
ed, more or less interconnected and tapering off down the 
stem ; color same as pileus. 

Stem: Solid, generally (often slightly) tapering towards base; 
paler than pileus or gills. 

Spores: Very pale yellow ochre in color; elliptical. 

Taste: Peppery and pungent in the raw state; mild and 
sweet after cooking. 

Odor : Suggesting ripe apricots or plums. 

Habitat: In woods, especially hemlocks, generally in clusters 
of two or three, or in lines or arcs of several individuals. 



vY 



r .-,/. 



^ '"ti^h'il' L... S L'B^'r \{ 



PLATE XIX 



.^.<'. 




' *;<>*" 



CANTHARELLUS ClBARlUS. 



AGARICS 177 

having these features, and which possesses in addi- 
tion a fine, rich yellow color, is the C cibarius of 
our plate, the esculent morsel so highly prized by 
epicures on the Continent, where to many  perhaps 
somewhat indiscriminating  gastronomists it forms 
one of the greatest delicacies among the entire list 
of edible fungi. The diameter of the mature speci- 
men may reach five inches, though three inches will 
be nearer the average size. The cap is frequently 

quite eccentric in its form, wavy- edged, 

Botanical or even folded upon itself in occasional 

^ characters individuals ; but the pure, deep yellow 

color " suggesting the yolk of an egg," 
and the swollen, vein -like hymenium, generally of 
a similar color, will be sufficient to distinguish it 
under any disguise of mere form. Another unique 
characteristic is its odor, which suggests ripe apri- 
cots or plums. The taste of the Chantarelle when 
raw is pungent and peppery, but this quality disap- 
pears in cooking. The spores are of a pale yellow- 
ochre color, and beneath the microscope are elliptical 
in shape. 

From the last of May until early November the 
Chantarelle may be found in our woods, with more or 
less frequency, singly or in clusters. According to 
Dr. Badham, an eminent authority on esculent fungi, 

" the best ways of dressing the Chan- 
stewed tarelle are to stew or mince it by itself, 
Chantarelle or to combine it with meat or with 

other fungi. It requires long and gen- 
tle stewing to make it tender, but by soaking it in 
milk the night before, less cooking will be requisite." 



178 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But the recipes employed in Great Britain and 
upon the Continent to the glory of the Chantarelle 
would almost fill a fair-sized receipt book, and some 
of them are quite elaborate. A few of these are giv- 
en in a later chapter. After a trial of a number of 
them the writer is assured that the simple broiling or 
frying in butter or oil, with proper seasoning, and 
serving on toast, will prove a most acceptable sub- 
stitute. 

Another species of Chantarelle, which might possi- 
bly be confounded with the C cibarius, is the Orange 
Chantarelle, C aurantiacus^ which is 
Another pronounced " scarcely esculent " by the 
specie5 authorities. Its average size is much 
smaller than the true Chantarelle, and 
its much deeper orange hue, and straighter, more 
regularly branched and crowded gills, will readily 
identify it, the gills of cibarius being thicker, and 
usually somewhat eccentric and netted. Like the 
foregoing, it assumes the funnel form with age, as 
indicated in the generic name, Cantharellus  " a di- 
minutive drinking-cup." 











wiypMm^. 




HE previous examples of mushrooms 
have all been included in the order 
of the Agarics, or " gill - bearing " 
^ fungi, the under spore-bearing sur- 
. face of the cap having been disposed 
in the form of laminae or gills. We 
will now pass to the consideration of a class of 
mushrooms certain of which enjoy a wider reputa- 
tion as " toadstools " than any other species, a new 
botanical order of fungi  the Polyporei  in which 
the gills are replaced hy pores or tubes  polyporus 
(many pores). Conspicuous among the Polyporei 
are those great shelf -like woody growths so fre- 
quently to be seen on the trunks of trees, and popu- 
larly known as "punk," "tinder," and " touch - wood," 
and many of which increase in size year by year 
by accession of growth at the rim. A few of these 
lateral - stemmed species are edible during their 
young state, one or two of which are included in 
my subsequent pages. But the most notable group 
from the standpoint of esculence is the typical genus 
Boletus, containing a large number of species, and 
of which Plate 20 presents a conspicuous example. 
Especial attention should here be called to the nota- 



l82 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ble monograph on the Boleti of the United States 

by State Botanist Pr(5fessor Charles Peck, of Albany 

University, New York, which presents 

Works by detailed descriptions of one hundred 

Prof. Peck and eight indigenous species. Other 

contributions to mycological literature 

by this distinguished American authority are noted 

in my bibliographical list at the close of the volume. 

THE BOLETI 
Tube tfinshrooms 

The structure of these mushrooms is clearly shown 
in Plate 38, in my chapter on "Spore-prints," the 
hymenium being here spread upon the honey-combed 
pore surfaces, and shedding its spores from the tubes. 
Each of these tubes is distinct and may be separated 
from the mass. 

The ideal form as shown in Plate 20 is perfectly 
symmetrical, in which condition the pores would nat- 
urally be perpendicular. But this perfection seldom 
prevails, and we continually find the specimens more 
or less eccentric in shape, especially where they are 
crowded or have met with obstruction in growth. 
But in any case, no matter what the angle or 
distortion of growth during development, the tubes 
are always adjusted to the perpendicular, or in mal- 
formed individuals as nearly so as the conditions 
will permit, as shown in the section on next page. 

The Boleti are in general a salubrious group. 
Certain species have long been accredited as being 
poisonous, and others excluded from the feast as "sus- 
picious." The early authorities caution us to avoid 



POLYPOREI 



183 



all Boleti having any shade of red on the spore-bear- 
ing surface beneath, even as it was originally claimed 
that all red-capped toadstools were poisonous. But 
from the writer's own individual experiments, rein- 
forced by the experience of others, he is beginning 
to be persuaded that the Boletus as a genus has been 




SECTION OF BOLETUS SHOWING PERPENDICULAR TUBES 



maligned. Many species accredited as poisonous he 
has eaten repeatedly without the slightest deleterious 
consequences, including the crimson Boletus, B. al- 
veolatus (Plate 24, fig. 2), with its red spore surface, 
and the B, subtomentosus (Plate 22, fig. i), whose yel- 
lowish flesh, like the species just mentioned, changes 
quickly to blue upon fracture, a chemical feature 
which has long stamped both species as dangerous. 



l84 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It IS interesting to note that the ban is gradually 
being lifted from the Boleti by mycophagists of 
distinction, largely through their own experiments. 
Thus I note that Mr. Mcllvaine, who has made a 
close study of esculent fungi, in a  recent article 
claims that "all the Boleti are harmless, though 
some are too bitter to eat'*; and Mr. Palmer, in bis 
admirable portfolio of esculent fungi, 
Maligned includes among his edible species one 
species of those whose flesh " changes color on 
fracture," and which has hitherto been 
proscribed as "off color." Of course, this food se- 
lection would obviously apply only to species of 
inviting attributes, possessing pleasant odor, agree- 
able taste, and delicate fibre. The selection com- 
prised in this volume is confined to a few varieties of 
established good repute. As to the rest if only on 
the consideration of idiosyncrasy  it is wiser to urge 
extreme caution on the lines laid down on page 34. 

The Boletus, like all other mushrooms, passes 
through a variety of forms from its birth to maturity, 
at first being almost round, then con- 
Changes y^^^ ^yJ|.j^ |.j^g spore surface nearly flat, 

In growth horizontal, the profile outline finally 
almost equally cushion-like on both upr 
per and lower surfaces, or the upper surface absolutely 
flat. Mere outline drawings of a number of Boleti 
would be almost identical. The form alone, there- 
fore, is of minor importance in their identification. 
Among those more readily recognized by their color 
and structural features, may be classed the following 
common species: 



Sdoletud edtdid 



TLATE XX 

EDIBLE BOLETUS 

Boletus edulis 

Pileus: Cushion-like; moist; variable in color, light brown 
to darker brownish red; surface smooth but dull; dimen- 
sions at full expansion, three to six or eight inches. 

Tube surface {A  magnified) : Whitish in very young spec- 
imens, at length becoming yellow and yellowish green. 
Pore openings, angled. 

Spores: Ochre-colored. 

Stem : Stout ; often disproportionately elongated. Pale 
brown, generally with a fine raised net-work of pink 
lines near junction of cap. 

Flesh : White or yellowish, not changing color on fracture. 

Taste : Agreeable and nutty, especially when young. 

Habitat: Woods, especially during July and August; com- 
mon. 



VJ ^T 'f_ X / 




# 





PLATE XX 



^m 



i 




Boletus Edulis. 



POLYPOREI 189 

EDIBLE TUBE MUSHROOM 
Boletus edulis 

The most prominent member of the Boleti is the 
typical species whose portrait I have given on Plate 
20, " in vain calling himself * edulis', where there were 
none to believe him." But in spite of this remark of 
Dr. Badham, which had reference es- 
A famous pecially to his native country, England, 
delicacy this fungus had long been a favorite 
article of food among a large class of 
the more lowly Europeans, to say nothing of the lux- 
urious epicures of the continent. 

Boletus edulis is to be found singly or in groups, 
usually in the woods. Its average diameter is per- 
haps four or five inches, though specimens are occa- 
sionally found of double these dimensions. A letter 
to the writer from a correspondent in the Rocky 
Mountains describes specimens measuring fifteen 
inches in diameter having been found there. 

The cushion -like cap is more or less convex, ac- 
cording to age, of a soft brownish or drab color 
somewhat resembling kid, and with 
Specific velvety softness to the touch. The 
characters under surface or hymenium is thickly 
beset, honey -combed with minute ver- 
tical pores, which will leave a pretty account of them- 
selves upon a piece of white paper laid beneath 
them and protected from the least draught, a proc- 
ess by which we may always obtain a deposit of 
the ochre-tinted spores, as is further described in 
a later chapter. 



190 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

In Boletus edulis this pore surface is white in 
young specimens, later yellow, finally becoming 
bright olive - green ; flesh white or creamy^ un- 
changeable on fracture. Stem paler than cap, thick, 
swollen at base, often malformed and elongated, es- 
pecially when from a cluster, generally more or less 
covered with vertical raised ridges, which become 
somewhat netted together and pinkish as they ap- 
proach the cap. The taste is sweet, and in the very 
young specimen, which is brittle, quite suggestive of 
raw chestnut. 

Any Boletus answering this description may be 
eaten without fear, assuming, of course, that its sub- 
stance is free from any taint of disso- 
insects lution and traces of insect contamina- 
and decay tion. Both of these conditions are too 
apt to prevail in the mature specimens, 
and all Boleti are more safely employed for food in 
their young crisp stage, or at least before their full 
expansion. In their maturity, moreover, they often 
prove too mucilaginous in consistency to be pleasant 
to the average partaker, especially the novice. 

In preparing them for the table, all that is neces- 
sary is to cut off the stems, which are apt to be 
tough and fibrous, and to wipe the pel- 
Preparation licle of the cap perfectly clean, or, if 
for table preferred, to pare the pileus with a very 
sharp knife. It is recommended by 
some that the entire mass of the pore section be re- 
moved. In a mature specimen this would reduce 
the bulk of the mushroom by half, and, moreover, 
deprive the remainder of the full flavor of the fun- 



cJooletud dcabez 



TLy4TE XXI 

ROUGH-STEMMED BOLETUS 

Boletus scaber 

Pileus: Rounded convex; diameter two to five inches; sur- 
face occasionally smooth and viscid when moist; color 
usually brownish red, but varying from orange brick red 
or even black in certain varieties to yellow or whitish. 

Tube surface : Rounded, cushion-like ; whitish at first, be- 
coming dingy; tube openings small and round, and rather 
long as seen in section. 

Spores: Reddish brown. 

Stem: Solid, dingy white, tapering slightly above, more or 
less thickly beset with brownish, fibrous, dot-like scales, 
this being the most pronounced botanical character for 
identification. 

Flesh : White or dingy in certain varieties, often changing to 
blue, brown, pinkish, or black where wounded. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant. 

Habitat: A common and widely distributed species, with 
many variations of color. Found in woods and shaded 
waste-places. 

Season : July-October. 





'A 



^ ft.' -^ 



JSfU-^ *. 



u;-. ,--r^ c. 



\<( 



' c<: si.r- 
l. V In 

 '^J J. 

' t, K - 



 . i(' or 



.1. :-::- to 






PLATE XXI 




Boletus Scaber. 



POLYPOREI 195 

gus. I have not found it necessary, and it is cer- 
tainly needless in a young and tender specimen. 

ROUGH -STEMMED BOLETUS 
Boletus scaber 

This is a very common mushroom in our woods 
all through the summer and autumn, in reasonably 
moist weather. It is figured in Plate 21. The 
cap of an average specimen expands four inches or 
more, is of a brown or brownish buff color, and vis- 
cid when moist. The pore -surface is dingy white, 
the tube orifices being quite minute and rou7id  not 
so conspicuously angular or honey -combed as in 
other species  and with occasional reddish stains, 
presumably a deposit from the floating spores, 
which are tawny reddish. The flesh is dirty white, 
the stem solid, contracting upwards, and rough with 
fibrous brownish scaly points  whence the name 
''scaber''  often arranged somewhat in vertical lines. 
Epicures fail to agree as to the esculent qualities of 
this mushroom. It is certainly inferior to the edulis. 

THE YELLOW- CRACKED BOLETUS 
Boletus subtotnentosus 

The general contour of the present species  B, 
subtotnentosus (Plate 22, fig. i)  resembles the fore- 
going, but it is easily distinguished by 
specific the color of its cap and tube surface, 
qualities the pileus being usually olive, olive- 
brown, or red of various shades ; the 
color, however, does not extend to the flesh beneath 
the peeled cuticle, as in B. chrysenteron. Fig. 2. The 



196 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

surface is soft and dry  subtomentous  to the touch. 
Cracks in the cap become yellow, on which account 
this species is called the "yellow -cracked Boletus," 
in contradistinction to the red-cracked B. chrysen- 
teron. Its most important distinction, however, is of 
a chemical nature. 

The stem is stout, unequal, firm, yellowish, and 
more or less ribbed, occasionally tinted, minutely 
dotted, or faintly striped with the color of the cap. 
The taste of the flesh is sweet and agreeable. 
Palmer compares it to the flavor of walnuts. The 

tube surface is yellow or yellowish green, 

The blue and the tubes and yellowish flesh of cap 

stain and stem turn a rich peacock -blue tm- 

mediately on fracture, becoming deeper 
moment by moment until the entire exposed portion 
becomes leaden  especially noticeable in mature 
specimens. The pore surface shows a similar blue 
stain whenever bruised. The tubes are angular- 
sided instead of round, and much larger than in the 
B. edulis ; spores ochre colored. 

This blue stain was formerly, and is even now, 
deemed sufficient with many mycophagists to place 
this mushroom on the black-list, but is believed by 
Mr. Palmer and Mr. Mcllvaine to be unwarranted 

as a stigma, assuming that fresh speci- 

^" X ^ mens are employed. The B, subtomen- 
unwarranted . 

stigma tosus is also among the eleven edible 

Boleti in the list of Dr. Curtis, given 

on a previous page, and the present author has 

habitually eaten the species with enjoyment and 

without unpleasant results. Fresh young specimens 



cJooLetud dubtomentodud 
cJooietud ckz^dentezoa 



TLATE XXII 

YELLOW CRACKED BOLETUS 

1. Boletus subtomentosus 

Pileus: Diameter three to six inches. Color, varying in dif- 
ferent individuals, yellowish brown, olive, or subdued tan 
color; epidermis soft and dry, with a fine pubescence. 
Cracks in surface become yellow. 

Flesh : Creamy white in mature specimens, changing to blue, 
and at length leaden on fracture. 

Tube surface: Yellow or yellowish green, becoming bluish 
when bruised; opening of tubes large and angled. 

Stem: Stout; yellowish; minutely roughened with scurfy 
dots, or faintly striped with brown. 

Spores: Brownish ochre. 

Taste : Sweet and agreeable. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 

GOLDEN-FLESH BOLETUS 

2. Boletus chrysenteron 

Pileus: Diameter two to four inches; convex, becoming 
more flattened ; soft to the touch, varying from light yel- 
lowish brown to bright brick red ; more or less fissured 
with red cracks and clincks. 

Flesh: Rich, bright yellow, red immediately beneath the 
cuticle. 

Tube surface : Olive-yellow, becoming bluish where bruised ; 
tube openings rather large, angled, and unequal in size. 

Stem: Generally stout and straight; yellowish, and more or 
less streaked or spotted with the color of the cap. 

Spores : Light brown. 

Habitat: Woods and copses. 

Season : Summer and autumn. 



. ".roniPrlosMS 

 J :! ,. Willi I -li t I -.[v > ( Vk ( 

, 1 VIM .;-</ Mni^h 

in I I'i-iv^.L 



 t 1 f- 



V, 



I ..:i;n:: 






.' M '..'' i;; ;; i:. size. 



O 
r- 
m 

H 

c 

CO 

c 

o 

m 
z 

H 
O 

c 

C/1 



n 

X 



m 

O 

z 




5 



X 
X 



POLYPOREI 20I 

with the least change of color would perhaps be the 
wiser choice for the novice. 

Another species having this peculiar property of 
" turning blue " even in a more marked degree, and 
named, in consequence, the B. cyanescens, though 
always heretofore considered poisonous, is now pro- 
nounced by certain prominent mycoph- 
Caution agists to be not only harmless but es- 
advisabie culent. It is still advisable, however, 
to caution moderation in its use as 
food, if only on the ground of idiosyncrasy. The 
spores of this species are white, which, with the more 
minute tube openings, form a sufficient discrimina- 
tion from subtomentosus. The spores should be ob- 
tained by a deposit on black or dark -colored paper. 
The flesh is white also. Other blue-stain species, 
such as B. alveolatus (Plate 24), are still considered 
with suspicion, presumably groundless. 

YELLOW-FLESHED BOLETUS 
Boletus chrysenteron 

Among the toadstools which tradition would sure- 
ly brand as poisonous on account of " bright color " is 
the common species whose name heads this para- 
graph, and which is illustrated in Plate 22, fig. 2. In 
its various shapes it suggests the preceding varieties. 
Its cap, however, is brownish red, often bright brick 
red. Flesh almost levton- yellow, stained red just be- 
neath the cuticle, and not ftoticeably chajigeable on 
fracture. Tube surface yellowish green, turning blue 
or bluish green when bruised. Spores light brown. 
Tubes rather large, angular, and unequal ifi shape of 



202 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

aperture. Stem yellow, often brightly colored with 
the red of the cap. Chance cracks in its surface be- 
come red, whence the common name of the " Red- 
cracked Boletus." A species frequent in woods 
throughout the summer and autumn, and edible. 

In its brightly colored cap it might possibly be 
superficially confounded with the suspicious Boletus 
alveolatus of Plate 24. But the latter species is ea- 
sily distinguished by its rose-colored spores and red 
pore surface. 

CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 
Strobilomyces strobilaceus 

Another allied species, not especially famous for its 
esculent qualities, but which is, nevertheless, not to be 
despised, is here introduced on account of its espe- 
cially pronounced character (Plate 23)  the cone-like 
Boletus, or, more properly, Strobilomyces. It is of a 
brownish gray color, its shaggy surface more or less 
studded with deep brown or black wool- 
Botanical ly points, each at the centre of a scale- 
characters like segment. The tubes beneath are 
covered by the veil in the younger 
specimens, but this at length breaks, leaving ragged 
fragments hanging from the rim of the pileus. The 
pore surface thus exposed is at first a grayish white, 
ultimately becoming brown. The substance of the 
fungus turns red when broken or cut. 

This very striking mushroom is found in woods, 
especially under evergreens. It frequently attains a 
diameter of four inches. Its spores are a deep 
brown, and a specimen selected at the stage when the 



Wttobiiomijced dtzoUiaceud 



TL/iTE XX III 

' THE CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 

Strobilomyces strobilaceus 

Pileus: From two to four inches in diameter, covered with 
a soft gray wool drawn into regular cone -like points 
tipped with dark brown. 
Flesh grayish white, turning red when bruised. 

Pore surface : Grayish white in young specimen, and then 
usually covered with the veil; dark brown or almost 
black at maturity. Plate 38 shows a spore-print of this 
species. 

Spores : Very dark brown. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant. 

Odor : Sweet and mild. 

Habitat: Woods; singly or in small clusters. 



f. 

I- 



^.- 



- ' ': i .[: BOLHTrS 

.. >: *VCeS St.: tl:t*V'011S 

..-1' ! . ." :;.:. I'.". vi'V. 1 J i With 

'c PI v ..!'/ ^ pi viu'.v'P. .'.'I i rl.'. -1 
I'! t;^ ^:> sIk'W's : >|\^:L--prMtt. .;{" ll^iv 



.. :1\ (^'" ill s"i:ili /ILJ f T^i. 



PLATE XXIII 







' / 



Strobilomyces Strobilaceus. 



POLYPOREI 207 

under surface \sjlat will yield a most beautiful spore 
print if laid upon white paper and protected from the 
atmosphere, as described in a later chapter. 

A reproduction of one of these prints is shown in 
Plate 38, the white reticulation representing the con- 
tact of the tube orifices with the paper, 
Black each tube depositing its dot composed 
spore-prints of spores, the depth of color increasing 
in proportion to the time involved in 
the deposit. A single mushroom will yield a half- 
dozen or more prints. This fungus dries readily, 
and may be kept indefinitely. 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 
Boletus felleus  B, alveolatus 

In Plate 24 are shown two examples of the Boleti 
which have commonly been accounted poisonous  
B. felleus and B. alveolatus  and, in the absence of 
absolutely satisfactory assurance to the contrary, it is 
safer from our present point of view to consider them 

still as suspicious and to give them a 

Manned wide berth. There can be no doubt 

species but that the popular condemnation of 

the Boleti has been altogether too 
sweeping. The gradual accession of many question- 
able species to the edible list of Messrs. Mcllvaine 
and Palmer and other daring mycophagists is a 
sufficient attestation of this fact. Thus subtomento- 
sus and cyanescens, already described, always hereto- 
fore branded as reprobates, are now redeemed from 
obloquy, and even the universal ill -repute of the B. 
satanas, with its pale pileus and blood -red pores, 



208 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

has not frightened the indefatigable Captain Mcll- 

vaine from a personal challenge and encounter with 

this lurid specimen, with the result that 

A daring jj^^ formidable " Satanas " has proved 
pioneer , . , , . - . ^ 

mycophagist anything but deserving of its name  

not half so lurid as it has been paint- 
ed; indeed, it has been even pronounced "the best 
of them all." Of course there's no telling to what 
extent the considerations of contrast, through sur- 
prise and the consequent demoralization on the con- 
tingents of the personal equation, may have influ- 
enced the captain's discrimination, but it certainly 
would appear, to put it negatively, that even the ill- 
favored world -renowned B. satanas has apparently 
been freed from aspersion as an enemy of mankind. 

But it is well for the amateur to avoid these notori- 
ous species absolutely until their edibility becomes 
universally accepted by the " professionals." 

The Boletus felkus (Plate 24, fig. i) is a very com- 
mon species. The pinkish substance of this Boletus 
is so extremely bitter when raw as to 

The bitter make it sufficiently repellent as food. 
Boletus The color of its smooth cap varies from 
creamy yellow to reddish brown. Sub- 
stance white in young specimens, flesh color or pink- 
ish in older individuals. Tube surface white at first, 
becoming pinkish. Opening of tubes, angled. Stem 
usually more or less netted with raised lines towards 
cap. Spores pinkish or "flesh colored." Common 
in rich soil in woods. 

Boletus alveolatus.  Pileus smooth and polished, 
usually rich crimson or maroon, sometimes varied 



c/Soletud alveolatud 
cJooietud feUeud 



VLATE XXiy 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 

Alveolate Boletus Boletus alveolatus 

Pileus: Smooth, polished; bright, deep crimson or maroon, 
occasionally mottled or marbled with yellowish; three to 
six inches in diameter. 

Flesh: Firm and solid in substance; pale greenish or yellow- 
ish white, changing blue in fracture or where bruised. 

Tubes: Tube -surface reaching the stem proper; undulate 
with uneven hollows; maroon, the tubes in section being 
yellow beyond their dark red mouths. 

Spores : Yellowish brown. 

Stem : Usually disproportionately long, covered with depres- 
sions or oblong pitted indentations, with intermediate 
coarse network of raised ridges ; red and yellow. 

Habitat: Woods; quite common. 

Bitter Boletus Boletus felleus 

Pileus: At first firm in substance, becoming soft and cushion- 
like ; smooth, without polish, varying in color from pale 
ochre to yellowish or reddish brown ; diameter three to 
nine inches. 

Flesh: White on immediate section, generally changing to 
slight pinkish or flesh color in fracture. 

Tubes : Tube-surface rounded upward as it reaches stem ; 
white at first, becoming dull pinkish with age, or upon 
being bruised. 

Spores : Flesh colored or dull pink. 

Stem : Usually quite stout, nearly as smooth as the cap, and 
somewhat lighter in color; more or less ridged with coarse 
reticulations, occasionally covered with them to its thick- 
ened base. 

Taste: Bitter. 

Habitat: Rich woods and copses, often about decaying 
trunks. 



s 





:i\ 



 . -Ml *  m '. 
 ;. J: 'V V ':: lii. -. 






^ ' l^v, M.T 1. .. iiji'i _ ^(.ti .v\"ishi(;!l- 
' ' J' '!: . > jr\i! L' 1!' i.-fl r 111 in pal-' 

.  vivto ^.^l.>:, U'-*:K'r;i'i} Lini-^.n^; % 

'" \ I ^. 'I l 1.1 ll h'll't I'. 

r,  :" .' a '>\\\M\: :i-. it N '. !' n i-Lm ; 






:' -1 : *'0 :r t"..'L\' -.'i- J 



PLATE XXIV 




Suspicious Boleti. 

BOLETUS ALVEOLATUS. 



B. FELLEUS. 



POLYPOREI 213 

With paler yellowish tints. Substance very solid, 
changing to blue on fracture or bruise. Tube sur- 
face deep dull crimson or maroon, this 
The crimson colot not extending the full length of 
Boletus the pores, which are yellow a short dis- 
tance above their mouths. The stem 
is quite stout and tall for the size of the cap as 
compared with other Boleti. It is mottled in yellow 
and bright red or crimson, and conspicuously meshed 
with a net-work of firm ridges. The spores are yel- 
lowish brown. A conspicuous and easily identified 
species. 

THE VEGETABLE BEEFSTEAK 
Fistulina hepatica 

Our next member of the Polyporus order, or tube- 
bearing fungi, is a unique member of the fun- 
gus tribe, and cannot be mistaken for any other 
species. An example of this species is shown in 
Plate 25, the beefsteak mushroom  Fistulina he- 
patica. The specimen from which my drawing was 
made was found growing at the foot of a chestnut- 
tree, and was about nine inches across 
Botanical by about two in greatest thickness. Its 
characters upper surface was dark meaty red or 
liver colored, somewhat wet, or viscid 
and clammy, and its taste slightly acid. The under 
tube surface was yellowish white, and, as the section 
will show, was proportionately thin  the pores being 
about one-eighth of an inch in length. The solid 
red substance much resembled meat, and in sections 
was streaked with darker lines of red, as indicated in 
plate, somewhat suggesting a section of beet-root. 



214 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Though not common in my vicinity, I neverthe* 
less succeed in obtaining a few specimens during 
the season. It varies greatly in size and shape. 
M. C. Cooke, in his admirable "plain and easy" 
account of British fungi, says of it : " When old it 
affords an excellent gravy, and when 
Savory young, if sliced and grilled, would pass 
qualities for a good beefsteak. Specimens are 
now and then met with that would fur- 
nish four or five men with a good dinner, and they 
have been collected weighing as much as thirty 
pounds. The liver, or paler pinkish meaty color, 
clammy viscidity, and streaky section are sufficient 
guides in the recognition of this species." 

It is a highly prized article of diet on the Continent 

where the arts of the chef are ingeniously employed 

in endless recipes for its savory prep- 

Cuiinary aration, often, it would seem, with the 

preparation main object of obliterating as far as 

possible all trace of the delicate flavor 

of the mushroom per se. 

If the reader's experience correspond with the 
writer's in his mycological experiments "^ /a mode',' 
he will gladly fall back to the plain plebeian method 
of simply broiling over the coals, or frying or roast- 
ing in the pan, with the least possible seasoning of 
pepper, salt, and butter, relying upon his mushroom 
to furnish the predominant zest and flavor. 

Other hints for serving this fungus are given in a 
later chapter. Besides the common name of " beef- 
steak mushroom," it is also known on the Continent 
as the "oak tongue," and "chestnut tongue." 



cFidtuilnao kepaticcLD 



TLATE XX y 

THE BEEFSTEAK MUSHROOM 

Fistulina hepatica 

Pileus: Diameter, average specimen, about six inches, occa- 
sionally twice or three times this size; color varying from 
pinkish to dark meaty red; surface roughened with mi- 
nute papillae; soft and moist. 

Flesh: Light red, streaked with darker red; tender and juicy 
in young specimens; juice light red. 

Tube surface: Creamy in color; tubes distinct from each 
other, crowded, very short, as shown in section opposite. 

Stem : Short or obsolete, growing at the side. 

Taste : Slightly acid. 

Habitat : On the stumps and trunks of oak and chestnut trees. 

Season: July-September. 



\ 



> 







''M]{r- 



' \ lii JiU >. <H .1- 

..! tii'/d vitli nil- 



.-' -< (.. ka::.! . i 



H 

C 
p. 

> 



m 

I 

n 
> 




^ 
m 



X 
X 
< 



POLYPOREI 



219 



THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 

Polyporus sulphureiis 

Probably the most conspicuous member of our na- 
tive polyporei remains to be considered among the 
esculents, though until recently it was included in the 
black list, Dr. Curtis, of North Carolina, I believe, 
having first demonstrated its edibility, though pro- 
nouncing it merely " tolerable." 

The brilliancy of its sulphur- yellow and orange- 
salmon colors, in association with its large size, ren- 
ders it a most conspicuous object, especially from its 










habit of growing in dense clusters, often a number 
of such clusters in close contiguity upon a decay- 
ing stump or prostrate log, frequently so numerous 
and so crowded as to completely conceal the bark 



220 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



.*/: 






beneath, as shown in the accompanying figure, or 
completely covering a space of several square feet. 

There lies before me even as I write a fragment 
of a single cluster which I plucked yesterday from the 
trunk of an apparently healthy red -oak near my stu- 
dio, the remainder of the clump having been enjoyed 
as a special course in my dinner of last evening. In 
Plate 26 I present a portrait of this specimen, the 
well-named Sulphur Polyporus  Polyporus stilphu- 
reus. It may be found frequently from July till 
frost upon its favorite habitat of old trunk, stump, log 

water-trough, or fence- 
post, usually upon wood 
in the early stages of 
decay. A single clus- 
ter will often measure a 
foot in diameter through 
its very solid mass of 
thickened pulpy branch- 
es, its early and escu- 
lent stage being thus 
compact with the sub- 
divisions ascending 
from their common 
thick stem, the mass somewhat suggesting a cauli- 
flower in shape, as shown in the illustration above. 

The general color at this tender stage is pure sul- 
phur-yellow, this being the ultimate lower or spore 
surface now exposed by its upright position. The 
true upper surface or cap of the later eccentrically 
branched fungus is of a bright orange -salmon color, 
and is mostly concealed by the crowded growth. 




A YOUNG SPECIMEN 



POLYPOREI 221 

The specimen above alluded to would have weigh- 
ed about two pounds, and this central mass was so 
crowded as to afford scarcely a glimpse of the pink- 
ish-orange pileus surface. Upon showing my speci- 
men to a friend, I was informed that a certain log 
by the roadside about two miles distant was covered 
with this same kind of fungus, which 
^ ^th^^ seemed to be spreading all over the 

wilderness ground. Doubtless ten or twenty 

pounds of good nourishing food was 

thus going begging by the way -side, even in sight 

of a rural homestead, whose lord and master finds 

the butcher's bill a serious drain upon his resources. 

My plate shows a more open cluster of the fungus 
in its earlier stages, the only time when it is fit for 
food. In this condition it is tender, succulent, and 
juicy. In a few days the lobed fringes or fan -like 
divisions have lowered and spread out as widely as 
their crowded condition will permit, assuming the 
horizontal or even drooping position seen at C, and 
at D in the plate, as viewed from above. The pileus 
now being exposed, the fungus presents a deep 
orange -red or salmon color to the beholder, its sul- 
phurous -hued pore surface being turned beneath. 
Its texture at this adult stage is tough, fibrous, and 
almost woody, especially as it approaches the stem, 
and no one would think of eating it. 

The young specimen, however, is quite delicious 
and wholesome, and, considering that a single cluster 
will afford a dinner for a large family, its importance 
as a food product, especially to the farmer or peasant 
who finds economy a necessity, is thus manifest. 



222 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Tasted at the tip, it yields for the first moment of 
mastication an acid flavor recalling that of the Fistu- 
Una hepatica. This is followed by a sweet, slightly 
mucilaginous savor, which, in the realization that the 
species is wholesome, will at once prove an invitation 
to further experiment with the fungus as food. 

The texture of the young mushroom will be found 

to vary in its different parts, extremely tender at the 

thickened tuberculated tips, becoming 

Texture fibrous as the stem is approached, and 

and quality increasing in toughness, in fracture 
suggesting wood in appearance (see A, 
Plate 26), and unless the specimen is very young 
this portion will have to be excluded from the diet. 
Excepting this precaution it needs no preparation 
for the table, assuming, of course, that the substance 
is free from grubs, which will presumably be the 
case, as I have never seen this fungus thus infested 
except in its more advanced woody growth. 

I have not as yet satisfied myself as to the best 
methods of cooking this polyporus. Fried in butter 
it has a tendency to become slightly tough in consist- 
ency, in its white stringy fibre as well as in taste 
closely suggesting the " white meat " of chicken. 
It lends itself well to a stew or ragout, 
Methods and might, perhaps, to a curry, the 

of cooking substance being cut or broken in small 

pieces and treated after the manner 

of meat under similar recipes. Following the hints 

contained in our last chapter, many methods of its 

culinary treatment will suggest themselves. 

The freely expanded specimen of this species is 



JoolypotaA duLpkuzetid 






^\ 



V 



'A ;iii;v. i-'. 



-on. 



; :o,>K- 



lon g:\)\v:i:^' !ii 



PLATE XXVI 




POLYPORUS SULPHUREUS. 



POLYPOREI 227 

full of beauty, in its wavy fan-like form and flowing 
lines and flutings presenting a suggestive decora- 
tive theme, whether in the branches of 

^^ J. . painting, sculpture, or the plastic arts. 
ornamental Jl ^ / 11. r 

attributes The pores upon its sulphurous surface 

are so minute as to be scarcely visi- 
ble, but they shed a copious quantity of whitish 
spores. The pileus of the dried specimen is often 
more or less frosted with minute white crystals  
binoxalate of potash  and the spore surface dulls 
to the color of buckskin. 

Another remarkable feature about this fungus, if 
report be true, is its visibility by night, not merely 

from its pale yellow hue, but by an act- 
Luminous ual flood of bluish luminous phospho- 
by night rescent light, the environment of its 

haunt in the woods sometimes being 
lighted up by the effulgence from its ample mass of 
growth, a resource not uncommon among the fungi, 
and popularly known under the name of "foxfire." 
This phenomenon is frequently observable in woods 
at night, following rainy weather. An old stump 
or prostrate log will appear streaked with lines of 
brilliant light. If we approach and detach the loos- 
ened bark, its back and the decayed surface of the 
log thus exposed will prove ablaze in phosphores- 
cence, whose presence had scarcely been suspected 
but for the chance fissures which revealed the tell- 
tale streaks. I recall from my boyhood experience 
one such midnight episode as this in which, from 
the peculiar outline of the fallen trunk and the coin- 
cident circumstance of two approximate dots of brill- 



228 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



lant light suggesting the eyes of a huge puma or 
tiger, I stood spell -bound with momentary fear, until 
I realized that the apparition was only a bugaboo 
after all. Approaching in the darkness, I soon laid 
hold of the rough head of the monster, and with a 
strong pull at the mass of bark of which it was com- 
posed, laid bare several square feet of blazing phos- 
phorescence whose only hint had gleamed through 
those two imaginary eyes, which proved to be holes 
w^hich had disclosed the hidden luminous fungus. 
One authority describes a single mass of this phos- 
phorescence as extending the entire length of a pros- 
trate trunk thirty feet long. 

Hawthorne records having made good use of fox- 
fire upon one occasion when, left in the lurch at 
night by a canal-boat, he procured a phosphorescent 
flambeau which effectually lighted his path for sev- 
eral miles through the otherwise impassable w^oods. 





T^HE species of fungi thus far described 
have been confined to the two great 
orders of the Agarics and the Polyporei, 
which include the large majority of our 
edible mushrooms and toadstools. 
The remainder of my selection in the 
present chapter comprises scattered ex- 
amples from four other orders : Hydnei (Spine-bear- 
ers), Clavariei (Coral-fungi), and the Trichogastres 
(Puff-balls), all belonging to the first great division 
of the Sporifera. The remaining two species consid- 
ered  Morel and Helvella, of the order Elvellacei  
are my only representatives of the second grand co- 
hort of the Sporidiifera, whose botanical characters 
are described on page 77. 

In our previous examples the hymenium or spore- 
bearing surface has been disposed upon " gills," as in 
the Agarics, and on " tubes " in the Polypores. In the 
Hydnei group, which we will first consider, this dis- 
seminating surface is spread over spines or teeth. 

The examples selected from this order are both in 
the typical genus Hydnum; and the object of this 



232 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



present book on fungi being especially the presenta- 
tion of only such varieties as are conspicuously self- 
placarded by some distinctive marks for identification, 
these delicious spine- bearing or "hedgehog" mush- 
rooms should of course be included  a, genus which 




X0I/J 





SECTION OF A HYDNUM 



cannot be mistaken for any other, and which is m- 
stantly recognized by its own peculiar character, al- 
ready mentioned, its spore surface being beset with 
soft, drooping spines instead of pores or gills. There 
are more than a score of species. The two more or 
less common with us are the Hydnum repanduniy in 
outline suggesting an ordinary mushroom, and of 



cft>i/()num' zepandum 



TLATE XXyil 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 

Hydnum repandum 

Pileus : Diameter two to five inches, generally irregular, with 
the stem off centre. Color varying from pale buff, the 
typical hue, to a distinct bricky red. 

Spines: Beneath the cap, one-quarter to one-third inch in 
length ; soft, creamy in tint, becoming darker in old spec- 
imens. 

Flesh : Creamy white, solid. 

Stem: Often set eccentrically into the cap; proportionately 
thick and short. 

Taste : Slightly aromatic. 

Habitat : Woods or shaded places in rich soil, often in clus- 
ters. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



I 



^X^ij^H^ 



ii 'HA^ 



 i 



|'r"{> -ri.'.^ 't.Iy 



' . . - '.I n  ' '  i. '",:: ii. . '.i.^- 



PLATE XXVII 




j^VW*^ 



Hydnum Repandum. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 237 

which the above cut represents a section, and the H. 
caput-meduscB, or Medusa- head Hydnum. None of 
the group is accounted poisonous, though some of 
them are too tough to be acceptable as food. 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 
Hydnum repandum 

In this species, figured on Plate 27, bearing some- 
what the contour of an Agaric, the spines are all 
confined to the lower surface of the expanded cap. 
The general color of the upper surface is buff, gen- 
erally very pale, occasionally almost white. The 
spines being of similar hue, this color 

Characters and the smoothness of texture have 
and qualities suggested the common popular English 
name of "doeskin mushroom." The 
flesh is firm and white or creamy, turning brownish 
when bruised. Its sweet but slightly pungent or 
peppery taste when raw disappears in cooking. It 
is quite frequent in our woods, and if fresh and free 
from insects may be eaten without the slightest hesi- 
tation. It is a species highly favored on the Conti- 
nent, where the surplus yield is habitually dried and 
kept for winter use. The hot flavor of the raw 
Hydnum was formerly sufficient to brand it as poi- 
sonous, Roques, I believe, having been the first to 
demonstrate its edibility, and Dr. Badham to dis- 
tinguish its mimetic flavor  " Hydna as good as oys- 
ters, which they somewhat resemble in taste." 

Cooke and Berkeley describe a variety of this mush- 
room having a distinctly reddish pileus  H. rufescens 
 and Prof. Charles Peck gives the species quite a 



238 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

range in its color gamut. " Its color may be pale buff, 

rusty yellow, pale red, or sienna color." The " pale 

buff " will doubtless be found to be the 

Variations most common. In the variety rufescens 

varieties the size is smaller and the form more 

symmetrical, but the general shape and 

fringe-toothed spore surface are sufficient to identify 

the typical species under any disguise of color. 

The cap is occasionally quite symmetrical, suggest- 
ing the outline of a Boletus in profile, but more com- 
monly is irregular and eccentric, with stem attached 
towards its side, as indicated in section on previous 
page. It may reach the diameter of five inches in 
a fine specimen. 

Its favorite haunt is the open woods, where it may 
be seen from the last of June until September, either 
singly or in clusters, lifting the dried leaves from 
their bed, or occasionally barely revealed beneath 
them. 

But the most important and savory of the entire 
group of Hydnei is the species following: 

THE MEDUSA HYDNUM 
H, capiit'tneduscB 

While driving through the White Mountain Notch, 
many years ago, I chanced upon a mass of cream- 
colored, fringy fungus growing upon a fallen beech- 
log by the side of the road. The fungus was then 
entirely new to me, and I lost no time in making 
a sketch of it, with notes. The growth covered a 
space possibly eighteen inches wide by eight in height, 
and I estimated it would weigh fully five pounds, its 



aiDifdnum caput - medudce 



TL/iTE XXVIII 

THE MEDUSA MUSHROOM 

Hydnum caput-medussB 

Spines : The long, soft spines cover the entire exposed por- 
tion of the fungus, which is disposed in fleshy branching 
divisions, each terminating in a *' crown" of shorter, 
drooping teeth. The color is pale buff or dark creamy. 

Stem : Short, concealed beneath the growth. 

Taste : Sweet and aromatic, slightly pungent. 

Habitat: Trunks of trees, especially beech. 

Season: July to October. 



x\> 



V 

< 



1 ' ' I A V 



' :.: > .-. , .r 



.. ^ \ 



't ^\\ 



HvtJrii ,1 c 



.*fc 



*>p:i.o:*  I  * i. r^^- .  ! -; 



i * 



.. 1.': ^ 



...  '. . i.v \u * \ 







If' I 



Plate XXIX.-HYDNUM CAPUT-MEDUS^E 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 245 

most marked feature being the dense growth of 
drooping spines. In my limited knowledge of edible 
fungi at the time, I cautiously left the specimen in 
the woods, afterwards to learn from 
A dinner Dr. Harkness, the mycologist, that I 
thrown away had " thrown away five pounds of the 
most delicious fungus meat known to 
the epicure." I have since found minor specimens 
many times, and can readily understand the enthu- 
siastic encomiums of my connoisseur friend as to its 
esculent qualities. 

This species (Plate 28) cannot be confounded with 

any other ; it is of a dark creamy color, and usually 

grows sidewise upon dead beech wood 

Haunt and (Plate 29), sometimes in great profu- 

description sion, especially in the summer. The 
soft spines entirely cover the rounded 
branching protuberances of the fungus. The upper 
teeth are short and form a sort of "crown," falling 
from which the more and more elongated spines are 
firmly pendent beneath, somewhat suggesting as many 
heads of tiny skye-terriers in crowded convocation 
 or a tiny bleached " hedgehog," if you choose. 

A fungus bearing such conspicuous characteristics 
may be gathered and eaten without fear, assuming 
the specimen to be fresh and free from grubs. It will 
be found an aromatic and savory morsel, though sim- 
ply fried in butter and served on toast. 

One other species may be mentioned briefly, the 
H. coralloideSy or Moss -mushroom, which is unfamil- 
iar to the writer, but which Curtis includes among 
his edible fungi. It may be found growing sidewise 



246 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" on old trunks of living trees," at first white, then 
yellowish, resembling when young the chou-fieur 
(cauliflower). From its base, which is 
M055- tender and fleshy, spring a large num- 
mushroom ber of flexible branches, interlaced and 
assembled in tufts, bearing upon the 
summit of each of their divisions an expansion of 
long points or projections, at first straight, then pen- 
dent, and even curved under, and terminating in 
layers. Cordier says that it is " delicate food." 

Professor Peck speaks enthusiastically of this spe- 
cies. " It is found in woods, especially in hilly and 
mountainous districts, and occurs during rainy or 
showery weather from August to October. It is a 
pretty fungus, and very attractive to those who are 
neither botanists nor fungus eaters, and it is as good 
as it is beautiful. In our botanical expeditions in the 
vast wilderness of the Adirondack region, we were 
often obliged to camp in the woods several nights in 
succession. On such occasions this fungus some- 
times formed a luxurious addition to our ordinarily 
simple and sometimes limited bill of fare." 

The Hydnei may be cooked in the same manner 
as employed for the ordinary mushroom, or gathered 
and dried for winter use, a very com- 
"i^^tir" "^^^ custom on the Continent. Owing 
kitchen; to the somewhat firm, compact sub- 
stance of these mushrooms they should 
be cooked slowly, in order to preserve their tender- 
ness. Berkeley recommends that they be "previously" 
steeped in hot water. Badham especially favors the 
Hydnum stew, which he claims is " an excellent dish 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 247 

with a flavor of oysters." According to the same au- 
thority it yields also a "very good puree." The 
" oyster " flavor is recognized in many of the epicu- 
rean encomiums on this species. Various hints as 
to its culinary treatment will be found in a later 
chapter. 

THE CORAL OR CLUB FUNGUS 
Clavaria 

What frequenter of the summer and autumn woods 
has failed to observe that occasional dense cluster of 
creamy-colored, coral-like growth such as I have indi- 
cated at Plate 30, and who has thought to gather up 
its fragile, succulent mass with designs 

A neglected on the cook ? I have seen clusters of 

feast this fungus so dense and ample as to 

strikingly suggest a huge cauliflower, 

and representing many pounds in weight. But in 

the absence of popular appreciation it must needs 

decay by "whole hundred -weights" in the woods. 

This is the Clavaria, or coral fungus  more literal- 
ly translated, though less appropriate to this partic- 
ular species, " club fungus"  a representative of a 
genus containing many edible species. 

The one presented in the Plate is Clavaria for- 
mosa, or the elegant Clavaria. It grows from four 
to six inches in height, is deep creamy yellow or pale 
orange buff in color, and slightly reddish at tips of 
branches. It has a sweet taste, a fragile, brittle con- 
sistency, and white substance; its spores are pale- 
ochre colored. Curtis gives thirteen edible native 
species. Among them are the following, which hard- 



248 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ly call for severe technical description, as the entire 
group are doubtless edible: 

The /rue ''covzl fungus"  Clavaria coralloides  
of our woods resembles C.formosa in general shape, 




Ja56~' 



*;' 



THE WHITE CORAL FUNGUS 

but its color is white, or perhaps pale gray. Its thick 
stem is hollow, and its uneven, crowded branches are 
brittle and flesh -white. Its odor is 
Clavaria like that of the AgafHcus campestris, 
coralloides and it possesses a sweet, pleasant fla- 
vor. Cordier recommends it as eatable 
even when raw. This species is in great favor in 
Germany, Switzerland, and Italy, where it is desic- 
cated for winter use. 



oiavazioD fotmodao 



TLATE XXX 

THE CORAL FUNGUS 

Clavaria formosa 

Thickly branched from a stout pale base, the dense branchlets 

being tipped with two or three minute teeth. 
Color : Saflfron yellow. Tips generally darker and more rosy. 
Flesh: White. 
Spores: Ochre-tinted. 
Taste : Sweet, tender, and delicate. 
Height: Four to six inches. 
Habitat: Woods. 



f' 



<:' 



PLATE XXX 








mm. 



.MP- 




Clavaria Formosa. 



X 
X 

I 

> 

 
o 
c 



o 

JO 



o 

*^ 

o 

r 

> 




MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 255 

Clavaria fastigiata is a somewhat dwarf variety, 
usually found on lawns and pastures, seldom reach- 
ing a height of more than two inches. 
Clavaria In general aspect it resembles Fig. 3 in 
fastigiata Plate 31. It is of a yellow color, very 
densely branched from its short, slender 
stem close to the ground, the branches mostly termi- 
nating at the same height. 

All of the above-mentioned species, except C.for- 
mosa, have whiie spores, and while none of the genus 
is considered poisonous, though some 
White-spored are so bitter and of such tough con- 
species edible sistency as to make them unfit for food, 
it is generally conceded among the au- 
thorities that all white- spared Clavarias are certainly 
edible. The spores are easily obtained by simply 
laying the fungus upon a dark surface and excluding 
the air, as directed in a later chapter. 

The various forms assumed by the Clavarei are 
indicated in Plate 31. 

Fig. I is C.flava; 2. C stricta ; 3. C umbrina ; 4. 
C rugosa; 5. C. amethystina. Any specimen bearing 
resemblance to any of these in form, and which is 
found to have white spores, may be eaten without 
fear. 

The Clavaria forms a most inviting relish by the 
simple process of frying in butter, with seasoning to 
taste. They have the advantage of being quite free 
from "fungus -worms," and in the larger species are 
occasionally so plentiful that a half -bushel may be 
gathered in a few moments. 

Another species bearing the general shape sug- 



256 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

gested in Plate 31, fig. i, is the C. botrytis. It has a 
thick, fleshy trunk and swollen branches. Its sub- 
stance is very brittle ; color creamy-yellow, with red- 
tipped branchlets. It is found in woods. 

THE MOREL 
Morchella esculenta 

In decided contrast to any of the foregoing fungi, 
and of unmistakable aspect, is the famous Morel, 
Morchella esculenta (Plate 32). 

The Morel belongs to a cohort of fungi known 

as the Sporidiifera, in which the spores are enclosed 

in bag-like envelopes^ in distinction to the Sporifera, 

in which the spores are naked and ex- 

Botanical posed, as shown in Plates 35 and 36. 

characters These cysts, or bags, or asciy which re- 
semble the cystidium in Plate 35, and 
in the family of Ascomycetes, to which the Morel 
belongs, each contains about eight spores, which are 
finally liberated by the bursting of the tip of the 
bag, after the manner of a Puff-ball. 

In the Morel the hymenium or spore-bearing sur- 
face is crowded with these cysts, and covers the 
entire exposed conical and pitted surface of the 
mushroom. 

Description is hardly necessary with its portrait 
before us. No other fungus at all resembles it ex- 
cept those of the same genus, and inasmuch as they 
are all edible^ we may safely add to our bill of fare 
any fungus which resembles our illustration. The 
Morel has long been considered as one of the rarest 
of delicacies, always at a fancy premium in the 



C/lbozckeiicuD edcatenta^D 



TLATE XXXII 

THE MOREL 

Morchella esculenta 

Pileus: Oval elliptical, or round in outline; diameter one inch 
to three inches in a large specimen ; hollow. Color pale 
yellowish brown, varying to greenish ; surface more or 
less regularly honeycombed with deep depressions. 

Stem : Hollow, dingy white, united to the base of pileus. 

Taste : Sweet and pleasant. 

Habitat: Woods, orchards, and shaded grassy places. 

Season : May and June. 




'^V'^'.^'ir 



ta 



' :iu 



:^; he! . c\-! 'i p.\\c 



:]:[ 



,y'.'S>V '\JCc>. 



PLATE XXXll 




/AORCHELLA ESCULENTA. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 26 1 

markets  a bon-mot for the rich, a prize for the peas- 
ant. I could fill all my allotted space with the 
delicate schemes of the chefs in its preparation for 
the table. 

Dr. Badham's recommendation, among my list of 
recipes, is worth a trial for the sake of novelty, if 
nothing more. The hollow shape of our Morel thus 
suggests a variation on the conventional methods of 
cooking. 

The color of the Morel in its prime is grayish- 
green, occasionally brownish. It is most commonly 
found in orchards, and is said to favor spots where 
charcoal or cinders have been thrown. 

HELVELLA 
Helvella crispa 

One of the most strikingly individual of all the 
mushrooms, and one which could not possibly be 
confounded with any other kind, is the example pict- 
ured in Plate 33. With this mere portrait as our 
guide, we might safely classify our specimen  at least, 
as to its genus ; and inasmuch as no one of the 
group is poisonous, and all are edible 
specific with varying degrees of esculence, we 
characters can make no mistake even in our vent- 
ures as amateur mycophagists. When, 
therefore, we find a fungus with such a peculiar, ir- 
regularly fluted and hollowed stem, itself hollow 
within, or tubular, and surmounted with a rather thin, 
flexible, wavy cap, resembling our illustration, we may 
know that we have a specimen of Helvella. If this 
example happens to be creamy above and ochre- 
14 



262 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

colored beneath, it is the Helvella crispa of our Plate. 
The specimen here shown is somewhat larger than 
in nature. Other species are differently formed and 
colored, one of them having the cap dark ash-colored 
or even black. There are three species occasionally 
met with, of which the first, H. crispa, is the most 
common and perhaps the most delectable. 

The peculiar texture of these mushrooms permits 
of their ready desiccation, and in Britain and on the 
Continent they are commonly strung on strings and 
dried for future use, in which condition they have 
been compared to dried "wash-leather" in texture. 
The famous aristocratic Morel {Mor- 
Dried citella esculenla), already described, so 

mushrooms prized as food in Europe, and to which 
the Helvella is closely allied, has a sim- 
ilar irregular, pitted, hollowed, and netted surface 
over its entire conical or globular gray cap, and the 
same texture. Most competent judges claim that 
the delicious Morel possesses no advantages over 
the more plebeian Helvella as a delicacy for the 
table. The flavor is identical, and the other qual- 
ities of the two mushrooms make them equally 
desirable. 

The readiness with which they may be dried, and 
thus kept indefinitely, is another distinct advantage 
which the Morels and Helvellas possess over the 
ordinary gilled Agarics, many of which must be gath- 
ered in their young prime and immediately eaten. 

There are numerous ways of serving these fungi, 
among which is the common method of frying with 
butter or oil, and variously seasoning with onion, 



elvella^ ctidpao 



TLATE XXXIII 

THE WHITE HELVELLA 

Helvella crispa 

Pileus: Two to three inches in diameter; wavy or curled, 
reflexed at edges, often puckered towards centre; white 
or pale creamy; somewhat leathery in texture in older 
specimens. 

Spore surface : On underside of cap, ochraceous. 

Stem: White, more or less furrowed with vertical hollows. 

Taste: Similar to Morel, to which it is closely allied. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



 LVirXLA 






 \ .. .K'U. 



PLATE XXXIII 




Helvella Crispa. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 



267 



garlic, herbs, etc., according to taste, and serving on 
toast, or with crisped bread-crumbs. Our chapter on 
recipes will suggest other more elaborate methods. 

PUFF-BALLS 

Lycoperdacea 

A detailed discrimination of the Puff-balls is hard- 
ly necessary here, and I will therefore omit it. While 
I am not inclined to go so far as to contend, as was 
the quaint habit of old Dr. Culpeper, in his Herbal^ 
in which he was wont similarly to elude description 
of an herb, affirming that "he were a fool indeed 
who does not know this plant "  or words of similar 




SKCTION OF PUFF-BALL-Eaklikr and Latkk Stages 

import  it is perfectly safe to say that if there is one 
fungus more than another with which the populace 
is specifically familiar it is the Puff-ball. 

In these fungi, of which there are many species, 
the spores are incased within the white or dingy 
peridium or more or less globular case  gasteromy- 
cetecB, from gaster, a stomach. The interior spore 
substance is at first white and firm in structure, at 



268 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

length peppered with gray, both conditions being in- 
dicated in accompanying cut, and ultimately black 
or brown, after which the outer case becomes dry 
and papery, and soon bursts at the summit, liberat- 
ing its clouds of spores with the slight- 
Spore-cioud est zephyr, or, later, becoming dislodged 
dissemination from its slender anchorage to the soil, 
is whisked before the breeze envelop- 
ed in its spore-smoke. Fries, the eminent fungol- 
ogist, has reckoned the number of these spores in a 
single Puff-ball at ten millions  presumably a con- 
servative estimate. 

- But it will surprise most people to know that the 
plebeian Puff-ball of our pastures is good for some- 
thing besides the kick of the small boy. 

There are a number of species of the Puff-ball, 
and none of them is known to be poisonous. 

I have indicated an arbitrary group in Plate 34 
ranging in shape and size from the small white 
globular variety of an inch in diameter, Z. saccatum, 
and the pear-shaped L. gemmaium, to the giant past- 
ure species, which may frequently at- 
Various tain the dimensions of a foot- ball or 
species a bushel basket. In its larger dimen- 
sions it is more spreading in shape, 
being somewhat wider than high. All the Puff-balls 
are edible if gathered at the white stage  i.e.y white 
pulp; those of yellow or darker fracture being ex- 
cluded, as the fungus in this later stage is not con- 
sidered fit for food. 

Of the esculent qualities of the larger species, Lyco- 
perdon gigantetim, we may judge from the statement 



gS) gioup of <^uff-baUd 



TLATE XXXI^ 

A GROUP OF PUFF-BALLS 

LycoperdacesB 

The group opposite represents three species. The largest, 
L giganteum; the pear-shaped, L gemmatum; and the small, 
round L saccatum. 

L giganteum. The largest species. Diameter ten to twenty- 
five inches; often more spreading in shape than speci- 
men shown; surface smooth; stem hardly apparent; color 
dingy white in the edible state, at which time the solid 
flesh is also white. Spore dust, at maturity, yellowish 
brown. Grows in fields and pastures. 

L. gemmatum. Stem prolonged and tapering from above, sug- 
gesting the specific name pear-shaped; color dingy white; 
surface covered with deciduous warts; substance, young 
state, while ; spore dust brown ; height two to three 
inches. 

L. saccatum. Stemless; white; setting close to the ground; 
one to two inches in diameter; surface covered with loose, 
warty granules ; substance, young state, white; spore dust 
brown. 

These and all other Puflf-balls are edible in the young condi- 
tion when the pulp is white. 



'.A \ X V V . / 



*,-* 



'>""''- A 



. in^irtt'im; :\\vA ti.t- sin.!:!. 

I)i;iir.rt' \ \:\\ to t\\'..nt.- 

.  '-ji: stt:n I: r ..'v jp|\.rriit: ^.ol >i' 

iJi'^N.' si: to. ?>i Vx-.. h liiijt' tilt* s'Ii(l 

'"'.')ic Jr^* : -i.itiititv. v('l!o\vi^h 

vi*' i.  N VK.I'-: M hsl.l'IcC. V( uu.u 

'. ' ' ? ' '.A .1 ; h j.;'it two t( ti^rtc 

 ' ' : M^VLiHi: ni)>.* to th.f L'i"unJ : 

'. ' : ''; si: .ko .(^vercd v\ iih 1(..'.>\\ 

. \v>i'n.': t.itc. V. I:ito; sj.^ iv Just 



i. .n Vw \\^\.v>(r cofv.i'- 



PLATE XXXIV 




r - .ijm'  LA 




A Group of Puff-Balls. 

LYCOPERDON GIGANTEUM. L. GEMMATUM. 



L. SACCATUM. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 273 

of a connoisseur: " Sliced and seasoned in butter and 

salt, and fried in the pan, no French omelette is half 

as good in richness and delicacy of 

Esculent flavor." M. C. Cooke, the British au- 

qualities thority, says of it : " In its young and 

pulpy condition it is excellent eating, 

and indeed has but few competitors for the place of 

honor at the table." Other epicurean suggestions 

will be found in a later page. Occasionally in its 

plenitude, especially during August and September, 

single clusters will be found which would afford a 

meal for a large family. 

Other species, more or less frequent, are the Z. 
separans, whose outer epidermis cracks off in flakes 
at maturity ; Z. cyathiforme, or cup-shaped Lycoper- 
don, a large species with distinctly purplish smoke 
so familiar to us all, the final cup shaped remnant 
of its case having suggested its name. The larger 
specimens will be found the more fully flavored. 

There is but one danger which would seem to be 
possible with reference to the use of the Puff-ball as 
food within the restrictions already 
Closing: words given, and that is, the remote contin- 
of caution gency  assumable only on the suppo- 
sition of most careless observation  of 
confounding the white ball with the globular condi- 
tion of the Amanita (see Plate 2, fig. i), or other 
fungi of the same deadly group, which are similarly 
enclosed in a spherical volva in their early stages. 

But inasmuch as this spherical period of the Ama- 
nita is usually spent underground and out of sight, 
and the merest glance at its contents would at once 



274 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

reveal the folded form of the enclosed mushroom, it 
would hardly seem necessary to warn the intelligent 
reader. But "once warned, twice armed;" and for 
absolute safety the tyro would do well to open every 
specimen, and be sure of its even, white, homogeneous 
substance before turning it over to the cook. 

There are a number of other esculent species of 
fungi as easily available and enjoyable as those al- 
ready described, but the scheme of the volume would 
hardly warrant their inclusion. Even though the ele- 
ment of danger is practically eliminated, so far as the 
identification of the foregoing fungi is concerned, it 
is still wise for the amateur to proceed with caution 
until he has absolutely learned the individual species 
in their various forms of development. 




4 



UR common dusty Puff-ball, floating its faint 
trail of smoke in the breeze from the ragged flue 
at its dome-shaped roof as from an elfin tepee, or per- 
haps enveloping our feet in its dense purple cloud as 
we chance to step upon it in the path, is familiar 
to every one. To the mycophagist connoisseur, on 
the alert for every delectable fungus morsel for his 
fastidious appetite, the Puff-ball is in- 
i>uff-baii deed pleasantly familiar, though a spec- 
spore-cioud5 imen in such a powdery stage as the 
above is apt to bring only regrets that 
its discovery has been thus delayed, for in its earlier 
firm white stage he knows it at his table as a most 
delicate entree of " mock omelet." 

The old-time country physician gathered its pow- 
dery bag and carefully preserved it for another pur- 
pose, its spongy, dusty contents having been a time- 
honored remedy as a styptic, or for the arrest of 
hemorrhage from wounds. But by no class of the 
community perhaps is it so enthusiastically welcomed 
as by the small boy, to whom it is always a challenge 
for a kick and a consequent demonstration of smoke 
worthy of a Fourth-of-July celebration. 



278 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A week ago this glistening gray bag, so free with 
its dust-puff at the slightest touch, was solid in sub- 
stance and as white as cottage cheese in the fracture. 
In this condition, sliced and fried, it would have 
proven a veritable delicacy upon our table, quite sug- 
gesting an omelet in consistency and flavor, and in 
size also, if perchance w^e had been favored with 
one of the larger specimens, which frequently ap- 
proaches the dimensions of a football. 

But in a later stage this clear white fracture w^ould 
have appeared speckled or peppered with gray spots 
(see page 271), and the next day entire- 
Development ly gray and much softened, and, later 
of spores again, brown and apparently in a state 
of decay. But this is not decay. This 
moist brown mass by evaporation becomes powdery, 
and the Puff-ball is now ripe, and preparing for 
posterity. 

Each successive squeeze, as we hold it between our 
fingers, yields its generous response in a puff of 
brown smoke, which melts away apparently into air. 
But the Puff-ball does not thus end in mere smoke. 
This vanishing purple cloud is com- 
Buoyant posed of tiny atoms, so extremely mi- 
spore-atoms nute as to require the aid of a powerful 
microscope to reveal their shapes. Each 
one of these atoms, so immaterial and buoyant as to 
be almost without gravity, floating away upon the 
slightest breath, or even wafted upward by cur- 
rents of warm air from the heated earth, has with- 
in itself the power of reproducing another clump of 
Puff-balls, if only fortune shall finally lodge it in con- 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 279 

genial soil. These spores are thus analogous to the 
seeds of ordinary plants. The number of these vital 
atoms or spores in a single Puff-ball is almost past 
computation. Fries, however, an eminent f ungologist, 

went to some pains to estimate this 
Number number, and, referring to a certain puff- 
of spores ball, says : " The spores are infinite. In 

a single individual of Reticularia max- 
ima I have reckoned ten millions so subtle as to 
resemble thin smoke as light as if raised by evapo- 
ration, and dispersed in so many ways  by the sun's 
attraction, by insects, by adhesion and elasticity  that 
it is difficult to conceive the spots from which they 
could be excluded." 

We have seen the myriad-fold dispersion of its po- 
tential atoms in the cloud of spore-smoke, but who 

ever thinks of a spore -cloud from a 

Spore-cloud mushroom or a toadstool? Yet the 

irom 
mushrooms method of the Puff-ball is followed by 

all the other fungi, with only less con- 

spicuousness. The Puff-ball gives a visible salute, 

but any one of the common mushrooms or toadstools 

will afford us a much prettier and more surprising 

account of itself if we but give it the opportunity. 

This big yellow toadstool out under the poplar-tree 

 its golden cap studded with brownish scurfy warts, 

its under surface beset with closely plaited laminae or 

gills  who could ever associate the cloud of dry 

smoke with this moist, creamy -white surface? We 

may sit here all day and watch it closely, but we shall 

see no sign of anything resembling smoke or dust, 

albeit a filmy emanation is continually eluding us. 



28o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

floating away from beneath its golden cap, the eager 
breeze taking such jealous care of the continual 
shower that our eyes fail to perceive a hint of it. 

Do you doubt it ? You need wait but a few mo- 
ments for a visible demonstration of the fact in a 
pretty experiment, which, when once observed, will 
certainly be resorted to as a frequent pastime in lei- 
sure moments when the toadstool or 
Catching mushroom is available. 
the spores Here is a very ordinary-looking spec- 

imen growing beside the stone steps 
at our back door perhaps. Its top is gray, its gills 
beneath are fawn -colored. We may shake it as 
rudely as we will, and yet we shall get no response 
such as the PufT-ball will give us. But let us lay 
it upon a piece of white paper, gills downward, on 
the mantel, and cover it with a tumbler or finger- 
bowl, so as to absolutely exclude the least admission 
of air. At the expiration of five minutes, perhaps, 
we may detect a filmy pinkish -yellow tint on the 
paper, following beneath the upraised border of the 
cap, like a shadow faintly lined with 
A white. In a quarter of an hour the 

spore-portrait tinted deposit is perceptible across the 
room, and in an hour, if we carefully 
raise the mushroom, the perfect spore-print is revealed 
in all its beauty  a spore -tint portrait of the un- 
der surface of the mushroom  a pink -brown disk 
with a white centre, which indicates the point of con- 
tact of the cut stem, and white radiating lines, rep- 
resenting the edges of the thin gills, many of them 
as fine and delicate as a cobweb. 



MUSHROOM SPORE-ERINTS 



281 



Every fresh species experimented with will yield 
its surprise in the markings and color of the prints. 

These spore -deposits are, of course, fugitive, and 
will easily rub off at the slightest touch. But inas- 





MAKINO THE PRINT 



much as many of these specimens, either from their 
beauty of form or exquisite color, or for educational 
or scientific purposes, it will be desirable to preserve, 
I append simple rules for the making and " fixing " 
of the prints by a process which was original with 



15 



282 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the writer, and which he has found most effective 
for their preservation. 

Take a piece of smooth white writing-paper and 
coat its surface evenly with a thin solution of gum- 
arabic, dextrine, or other mucilage, and 
^dn^^ allow it to dry. Pin this, gummed side 
spore-prints uppermost, to a board or table, prefer- 
ably over a soft cloth, so that it will lie 
perfectly flat. To insure a good print the mushroom 
specimen should be fresh and firm, and the gills or 
spore-surface free from breaks or bruises. Cut the 
stem off about level with the gills, lay the mushroom, 
spore -surface downward, upon the paper, and cover 
with a tumbler, finger-bowl, or other vessel with a 
smooth, even rim, to absolutely exclude the slightest 
ingress of air. After a few hours, perhaps even 
less, the spores will be seen through the glass on 
the paper at the extreme edge of the mushroom, their 
depth of color indicating the density of the deposit. 
If we now gently lift the glass, and with the utmost 
care remove the fungus, perhaps by the aid of pins 
previously inserted, in a perfectly vertical direction, 
without the slightest side motion, the spore -print in 
all its beauty is revealed  perhaps a rich brown cir- 
cular patch with exquisite radiating 
Various colors white lines, marking the direction and 
of spores edges of the gills, if an Agaric; perhaps 
a delicate pink, more or less clouded 
disk, here and there distinctly and finely honey-comb- 
ed with white lines, indicating that our specimen is 
one of the polypores, as a Boletus. Other prints will 
yield rich golden disks, and there will be prints of 




Spore-print 
Plate XXXV.-SPORE-SURFACE OF AN AGARIC 




Spore-print 



Platb XXXVI. -SPORE-SURFACE OF POLYPORUS {BOLETUS) 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 28/ 

varying red, lilac, green, orange, salmon -pink, and 
brown and purple, variously lined in accordance with 
the nature of their respective parent gills or pores. 

Occasionally we shall look in vain for our print, 
which may signify that our specimen had already 
scattered its spores ere we had found it, or, what is 

more likely, that the spores are invisi- 
Invisible ble upon the paper, owing to their white- 
prints ness, in which case black or colored 

paper must be substituted for the white 
ground, when the spores will be beautifully manifest 
in a white tracery upon the darker background. One 
of these, from the Amanita muscarius, is reproduced 
in Plate 37. If the specimen is left too long, the 
spore-deposit is continued upward between the gills, 
and may reach a quarter of an inch in height, in 
which case, if extreme care in lifting the cap is used, 
we observe a very realistic counterfeit of the gills of 
the mushroom in high relief upon the paper. A 
print of this kind is of course very fragile, and must 
be handled with care. But a comparatively slight 
-deposit of the spores, without apparent thickness, will 
^ve us the most perfect print, while at the same 

time yielding the full color. Such a 

Fixing print may also be fixed by our present 

tlie print method so as to withstand considerable 

rough usage, by laying the paper upon 
a wet towel until the moisture has penetrated through 
and reached the gum. The spores are thus set, and, 
upon drying the paper, are securely fixed. Indeed, 
the moisture exuded by the confined fungus beneath 
the glass is often sufficient to set the spores. 



288 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A number of prints may be obtained successively 
from a single specimen gathered at its fruitful prime. 

To those of my readers interested in the science of 

this spore -shower I give illustrations of examples of 

the two more common groups of mushrooms  the 

Agaric, or gilled mushroom, and the Polyporus, or 

tube -bearing mushroom. The entire 

Agarics surface of both gills and pores is lined 

and Polypores with the spore -bearing membrane or 

hymenium, the spores being produced 

in fours from each of the crowded sporophores, and, 

where all air is absolutely excluded, permitting them 

to fall directly beneath their point of departure as 

indicated; in the case of the Agaric, in radiating 

lines in correspondence with the spaces between the 

gills ; and in Polyporus, directly beneath the opening 

of each pore, whose inner surface is lined with the 

sporophores, as shown in Plate 36. 

This dust-shower is continuous in nature after the 
perfect ripening of the spores, but it is almost impos- 
sible to conceive of such an entire absence of moving 
air under natural conditions as to permit even a 
visible hint of the spore-shower to appear beneath its 
respective fungus. An exception to this rule is 
sometimes to be seen in fungi of mass- 

Spore-mist ^j orrowth  as, for example, beneath 
from an _^ , , , 

Agaric such a cluster as that shown on page 

147. Indeed, a correspondent recently 

described such a cluster as "enveloped in a mist of its 

own spores floating away in the apparently still air." 

In Plate 38 is shown a spore-print with a peculiar 

elongated tail. Such was the specimen which I ob- 



.;: U> frinUiii iv.-Inu.*. 
" .-^t 'd ill Ovj .sriv luc c^ 

 -ins "{ in 1 -.!.-, >(;Ms  t^u; 
n. air 
;. / Pu: r >!" 






J ^|m.R 



^^ ^:" 1 he ( iivin* 



. '>jiM-i)./ii^.re^, and, 

:'iT (  d' txirt'iiv- a>, 
\ . .L .' , in Kidiatini^ 

' at!i ihc (;[)ppiniL!; 
is lin-.'d \\'i\\\ tivj 



. ii^ ill p iturc aftpr t^ip 

. ^. ln:t it i^ alnw.>t ip"^]) >>- 

: ..luii" alv-' MPv' (>f iiioxiii:; 

i'^> K' t" [ prp.it c t p a 

' '. 'a|)j')rar iH']a;cil!i iL-> 

<'.'.ii t" ill's ru!!.- i> 

-'.'. p. in inp.;j;i ot r/ia-s- 

* '1* (_^^anl;'!c hcn'/ath 

 ." siif)\\n ('P p.i,.;e 

' ( '^[Jv'i.dcnl r'/(\:nt!)' 

 i^'j^.d in a IV. Nt K'I '[> 

.'.'i .;:\'nt]\ <u\\ ap-." 
 : ' -nt wiMi a ppcnliar 

'  ' iP^' Pi \\'ip. . i 1 '  '- 




Platb XXXVII.-SPORE-PRINT OF AMANITA MUSCARIUS 




Platb XXXVIIl. action OF SLIGHT DRAUGHT ON SPORES 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 



293 



served when lifting the pasteboard box which had 
been placed above the mushroom to absolutely ex- 
clude the air. The explanation was simple when I 
discerned that the tapering elongation pointed direct- 
ly to a tiny hole in the box barely 

Affected lareer than a knitting-needle. 
by a pin-hole ^ . r ^ .1 

draft The greatest portion of the myriads 

of spores are wafted to the ends of the 
earth, and form an important element in the so-call- 
ed " dust " so unwelcome to the tidy housewife. A 




FUNGUS SPORES 



sticky glass slide exposed to the deposit of such dust, 
and placed beneath the microscope, will reveal many 
fungus spores. The air is full of them. 



294 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A few of the various characteristic forms of these 
fungus-spores is shown on a previous page, somewhat 
as a powerful microscope would reveal them to us. 

But it is only as they chance to alight individually 
in congenial conditions for growth that they will con- 
sent to vegetate. Thus billions of them are doomed 
to perish without progeny. These whims of habitat 
among the fungi are almost past belief. 
Whims Here, for instance, is a tiny Puff-ball 
of habitat hardly larger than the period on this 
page. It bursts at the summit, and 
sheds its puff of microscopic spores, so light as to 
be without gravity, floating and settling everywhere 
upon the earth, but only as they chance to alight 
upon the spines of a dead cheshtut-durr of two years' 
decay will they find heart to grow. Such is the 
fastidiousness of the little white mushroom, whose 
globular caps dot the spines of the decaying chest- 
nut-burrs in so many damp nooks in the woods. 

In closing my chapter a glance at the further ec- 
centricities of choice will not be inopportune. I ap- 
pend a few taken at random from the 
Curious pages of Berkeley, which lie open be- 
fastidiousness fore me. In addition to the general 
broad distinctions of habitat as " woods," 
" rotten wood," " old pastures," " dunghills," we find 
such fastidious selections as the following, each by a 
distinct species with its own individual whim : " Dead 
fir-cones, sawdust, beechnuts, plaster walls, old fer- 
menting coffee-grounds, wheat ears, cinders, dead oak 
leaves, old linen, wheat bread, hoofs, feathers, decayed 
rope, fat, microscopic lenses, and damp carpets." 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 295 

A complete list of these exclusive habitats of fungi 
would well fill a large book, and might indeed almost 
involve the " index " of our botanies and zoologies, 
to say nothing of organic substances generally. 

Plants, both living and dead, are favorite habitats 
for various species. The old stems of the common 
European nettle, according to Cooke, becomes the 
host of about thirty distinct species of the minute 
fungi. The toadstool itself is often the victim of 
other minor species. Insects are a frequent prey. 
The wasp succumbs to its special fungus parasite, 
which has formed a home within its body, and the 
common house-fly is seen in the toils 

House-fly of its similar enemy, as it hangs help- 
fungus less by its proboscis upon the window- 
pane, enveloped in the winding-sheet 
of white mould from the fungus which has done its 
work within the insect's body. Spiders, locusts, 
ants, cicadae, and presumably all insects, are subject 
to similar fate from their especial parasitic fungi. 
The fungus thus often comes to the rescue of afflicted 
humanity in regulating the undue increase of insect 
pests. Here is a pretty, slender, orange, pointed mush- 
room growing in the moss. We pluck it from its 
bed, and it brings to the surface a chrysalis, with the 
dead moth distinctly seen within the cavity from 
which its roots spring. When we next come upon 
this species in the moss, we may confidently predict 
the discovery of this same species of chrysalis. 

A similar long, slender fungus springs from the 
head of a caterpillar in New Zealand, and at length 
almost absorbs the insect's body. A similar species 



296 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



upon another caterpillar is carefully collected and 
desiccated by the Chinese, with whom it forms an im- 
portant article in their native pharma- 
te'^^n copoeia, and, moreover, it seems, may be 
fungi perhaps appropriately included among 
the " edibles," for are we not assured by 
these expert and indiscriminate epicures of the chop- 
sticks that this species " makes an excellent dressing 
for roast duck." 




i^^^ 



Concerning "Mushromes and Tadstoles' 




^ND now for that our fine 
mouthed and daintie wantons 
who set such store by their 
tooth ; take so great delight 
to dress this only dish with 
their own hands, that they 
rniiy feed thereon in conceit and cogi- 
tiition all the while they be handling 
jnJ preparing the same, furnished in 
^^r* this their businesse with their fine 
^^9 knives and razors of amber and other 
vessels of silver about them. 

* ' I for my part also am content to 
^f [r;ime and accomodate myself to their 
f humourous fancie and will shew unto 
them in generall certaine observa- 
tions and rules how to order and use them 
that they may be eaten with securitie." 



Plinius Secundus. 




HE earnest plea of Dr. Badham for 
this neglected  rather, I may say, 
spurned ^  spontaneous harvest of 
fungi is well worth emphasizing in our pages; afford- 
ing, as it does, a most suggestive commentary on the 
universal popular ignorance, so far as America is con- 
cerned, of the economic value of this perennial of- 
fering of Nature, which abounds in such luxuriance 
throughout our continent. 

" I have this autumn myself," he writes, " witnessed 
whole hundred -weights of rich, wholesome diet rot- 
ting under trees ; woods teeming with 
The spurned food, and not one hand to gather it ; 
harvest and this, perhaps, in the midst of a po- 
tato-blight, poverty, and all manner 
of privations, and public prayers against imminent 
famine. 

*' I have, indeed, grieved, when I have reflected on 
the straitened condition of the lower classes this year, 
to see pounds innumerable of extempore beefsteaks 
growing on our oaks in the shape of Fistulina hepat- 
tea ; Agariacs fusipeSy to pickle, in clusters under 
them ; Puff-balls, which some of our friends have not 

i6 



300 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

inaptly compared to sweetbreads for delicacy of their 

unassisted flavor ; Hydna, as good as oysters, which 

they somewhat resemble in taste; Agar- 

^^ , tcus ddiciosus, remindinor us of tender 
comprehensive , , . , ,, , r i 

fungus lamb kidneys; the beautiful yellow 

Chantarelle, that kalon kaigothon of diet, 
growing by the bushel, and no basket but our own 
to pick up a few specimens on our way; the sweet, 
nutty-flavored Boletus, in vain calling himself ' edulis ' 
where there was none to believe him ; the dainty 
Orcella; the Agaricus hcterophyUus^ which tastes like 
a crawfish when grilled ; the Agaricus ruder, and 
Agaricus virescens, to cook in any way and equally 
good in all  these are the most conspicuous of the 
trouvailles^ 

His remarks applied to Great Britain, and reflected 
a popular disdain of fungi, which presented a marked 
contrast to the appreciation of the 
A reliable mushroom of the Continent, where the 
crop fungus had become the much -sought 

bonne bouclie of the epicure, and the wel- 
come reliance of the peasant poor, to whom it afforded 
a perfect substitute for the desideratum of animal 
food commonly denied them by their circumstances. 

This plea of Dr. Badham's is even more pointedly 

pertinent to the America of the present than it was 

for his own country at the time ; for 

The fungus while, in Great Britain, the mycophagist 

specialist epicure was even then occasionally to 

be met with, in America to-day this par- 

ticular gastronomic specialist is locally conspicuous, or 

rather notorious, from his very rarity, being popularly 



RECIPES 301 

considered as a sort of dangerous crank, who should 
be conservatively muzzled by the authorities, for the 
safety of himself as well as the public. 

In the absence of any adequate popular guide to 

this great food resource, it may be hoped that this 

present work may afford not merely an 

Mycophaglst occasional dainty entree to the menu 

missionaries of the luxurious epicure, but  a far 

more important consideration  a means 

of bringing the fungus within reach of the less-favored 

masses as a never-failing dependence for their daily 

food. 

Dr. Badham's further pertinent remarks are worth 
quoting, in this connection, with emphasis: "As 
soon as the reader is initiated in this class of dain- 
ties he will, I am persuaded, lose no time in making 
the discovery known to the poor of his neighbor- 
hood ; while in so doing he will render an important 
service to the country at large, by instructing the in- 
digent and ignorant in the choice of an ample, whole- 
some, and excellent article, which they may convert 
into money or consume at their own tables, when 
properly prepared, throughout the winter." 

Concerning the lavish plenitude of the fungus as 
a food resource, a passage from a letter of the late Dr. 
Curtis, of North Carolina, to the Rev. J. M. Berke- 
ley, of England, many years ago, is 
A suggestive most significant : " Of this latter qual- 

statement ity I had become so well convinced 
that, during our late war, I sometimes 
averred  and I doubt if there was much, if any, exag- 
geration in the assertion  that in some parts of 



302 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the country I could maintain a regiment of soldiers 
five months in the year upon mushrooms alone." A 
statement which doubtless will appear extravagant to 
those who have been accustomed to consider the one 
common "mushroom" as the only esculent among 
the fungi. 

As already mentioned previously in my pages, the 

fungus affords a perfect substitute, chemically and 

gastronomically, for animal food. The 

Nutritious analysis of its substance is almost iden- 

properties tical with that of meat, being especially 

rich in nitrogenous elements, while its 

flavor and aroma and texture, as served for the table, 

occasionally so closely imitate that of flesh food as 

to *be actually deceptive. Even in its raw state it 

would occasionally seem to suggest the same animal 

similarity. As an illustration, I recall the following 

striking instance of gastronomic discrimination in a 

carnivorous appetite, as exemplified in a full-grown 

pet hawk which I had tethered near my country 

studio. 

One day, returning from a toadstool hunt, she ob- 
served me approaching with a basketful of mush- 
rooms. They were mostly of the fleshy 
"^ Boleti species. Supposing that I was 

iiawic bringing her food, she became very de- 
monstrative in her actions, eying me 
most eagerly, and uttering that peculiar low squeal 
which seemed to emanate from the region of her 
appetite. As she approached me, thinking to satisfy 
her that the basket contained nothing suitable for 
hawk -food, I tossed her one of the largest of the 



RECIPES 303 

mushrooms, which she almost caught in mid-air in 
her talons. Such was the strength of her clutch that 
the fungus was scattered in fragments upon the 
ground, when what was my surprise to observe the 
bird proceed from one fragment to another in a most 
ravenous manner, exhibiting all those tactics habitual 
to the hawk with live prey  the lowering and out- 
spreading of the wings and tail against the ground, 
the raising bf the neck feathers, and the same de- 
fiant, defensive mien which she had so often shown 
on previous occasions when a mouse or a squirrel 
had been the object of her solicitude. Having eaten 
the first fungus, I threw her another, which she de- 
voured with the same eagerness, and another, and 
another, until she had taken five, and her crop was 
as large as a pint cup; after which she betook her- 
self quietly to her roost on the rail near by, evidendy 
under the supposition that she had broken her fast 
with a sumptuous meal of rabbit or squirrel flesh. 

The Agaricus ostreattis is known as the " vegetable 
oyster''  its flavor in a stew quite closely simulating 
the flavor of the bivalve ; another fun- 
Fish, flesh, gus as the " beefsteak mushroom "  not 
and fowl without good reason ; the Polyporus 
sulphureus distinctly suggests the flesh 
and flavor of chicken ; others, as we have seen, re- 
semble kidneys and sweetbread; while the Agaricus 
ulmarius of the elm would seem entitled to its popu- 
lar name of " fish-mushroom," from the following inci- 
dent related by Palmer: 

" I recently sent some elm - tree mushrooms to a 
family where the youngest member is but twenty-one 



304 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

months of age. At breakfast-time she noticed the 
strange dish, and her father gave her a small piece. 
* More fish ! more fish !' was the instant response." 

Indeed, the vegetarian may humor his humane 

whim, and still enjoy fish, flesh, and fowl at his table 

without a qualm of conscience in a 

A boon to menu which, in aroma, quality, and fla- 
thc vegetarian yor, might well deceive his unconverted 
omnivorous brother, only at last to win 
his encomium to the glory of the multum hi parvo 
fungus. The possibilities in this direction are sug- 
gested in my appended hints for a menu for the 
vegetarian. 

In my previous pages I have made occasional refer- 
ence to the more simple methods of preparation of 
certain species of fungi for the table, but have re- 
served extended reference to culinary treatment for 
the present chapter. 

For the benefit of those of my readers who may 

desire to " humour their delicate fancie " to the full, 

with the result of a more or less com- 

Fungl In plete disguise of the characteristic 

the kitchen mushroom flavor through the arts which 
are supposed to " assist nature," I ap- 
pend a selected list of favorite recipes for such al- 
leged appetizing sophistication of the mushroom. 
Many of them will be found equally applicable to 
other species than that for which they are nominally 
recommended, especially if such species should pos- 
sess the same general character as to consistency. 

The author confesses that he is not in thorough 
sympathy with the general trend of these ingeniously 



RECIPES 305 

contrived lures to dyspepsia, whose contemplation 

may well awaken a sympathetic appreciation of that 

antique philosophic epigram, " There are as many 

diseases as cooks"  the discriminating impeachment 

of Seneca regarding the '' c/ie/ a la mode'' 

But doubtless the author will be overwhelmingly 

overruled in his hypercriticisms, and will remain one 

of a select discriminating minority in 

De gustlbus continued eenuine enjoyment of his 

non est , 1 ,  - r 1  

disputandum mus/ii'ooms^ while the majority 01 his 

proselytes to mycophagy will in vain 
endeavor to detect the mushroom flavor in the oblit- 
erating disguise concocted in the kitchen or insti- 
gated by the mischievous "receipt-book." 

Indeed, the prominence of the spice, clove, nut- 
meg, thyme, tarragon, and pepper ingredient in most 
of these "favorite recipes," to say nothing of the 
champagne, onion, garlic, lemon-juice, cayenne, an- 
chovy, etc., with which the delicately flavored mush- 
rooms are so generally sophisticated in these culi- 
nary preparations, would seem to warrant our scep- 
ticism as to the value of the epicurean testimony 
as to the " superior flavor," of the various " Cham- 
pignons," " Chantarelles," etc., so confidently recom- 
mended. The juice of a lemon, or oil of lemon-peel, 
will absolutely annihilate the peculiar characteristic 
"fungus" flavor of the average mushroom. The true 
mushroom epicure, it would seem, should value his 
mousseron not as an absorbent vehicle for the gas- 
tronomic conveyance of highly seasoned sauce or 
dressing, but for the unique individual flavor which 
differentiates the fungus from other kinds of food. 



306 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But we are all allowed to differ in matters of taste, 
and each must decide for himself or herself what par- 
ticular disguise is most palatable. 

The recipes which follow are -from various sources, 
most of them modifications based upon the earlier 
epicurean devices of Mrs. Hussey and Dr. Badham, the 
pioneers of English mycophagy, and of Roques, Per- 
soon, Paulet, Cordier, and other noted European au- 
thorities. I am indebted, also, to the works of M. C. 
Cook, Worthington Smith, W. Robinson, and J. A. 
Palmer for occasional selections from their recom- 
mended recipes. 

RECIPES FOR MUSHROOM COOKING 

In all cases the mushroom should be fresh, clear 
and free from the insect indications mentioned on 
page 131. Some epicures recommend that the speci- 
mens be also washed in cold acidulated water and 
dried in a cloth ; for what reason is not clear, unless 
the mushrooms are sufficiently dirty to require such 
cleansing process. 

I Mushroom Soup 

" Take a good quantity of mushrooms, cut off the 
earthy ends and wash them ; stew them, with some 
butter, pepper, and salt, in a little good stock until 
tender; take them out and chop them up until quite 
small ; prepare a good stock as for any other soup, 
and add it to the mushrooms and the liquor they have 
been stewed in. Boil all together and serve. If white 



RECIPES 307 

soup be desired, use the white button-mushrooms and 
a good veal stock, adding a spoonful of cream or a 
little milk, as the color may require."  W. Smith. 

Other mushrooms may be substituted for the ordi- 
nary Campestris above mentioned. A very good 
mock oyster soup may be prepared from the mush- 
rooms Hydnum and the Agaricus ostreatus. 

2 Pur^e of Mushrooms 

" To make a puree of mushrooms, select such as are 
of a globular shape, called ' button-mushrooms ;* wash 
them in cold water and wipe them dry ; chop them as 
fine as possible and press them in a cloth ; put them 
in a stewpan with a little butter and pepper; let 
them stand over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in lemon-juice and add jelly broth, ac- 
cording to the quantity of the mushrooms. Stew 
until reduced to the consistency of pea-soup, and 
serve with meat, fish, or poached egg."  Cooke. 

3 Mushroom Stew 

Put about two ounces of butter into a stewpan ; 
when thoroughly melted add a teaspoonful of salt, 
and from a quarter to half the quantity of black pep- 
per, according to taste, and a small bit of mace or a 
pinch of powdered nutmeg. Having a pint of the 
mushrooms in readiness, put them in the pan, cover 
closely, and stew them till they are tender, which will 
probably require from twenty minutes to half an 
hour. The addition of flour stirred in cream or 
milk, by which the stew is thickened, is by some 
considered a desirable addition. This recipe is given 



308 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with special reference to the Campestris, but will be 
found suitable for other mushrooms of the same con- 
sistency. 

4 Broiled Mushrooms on Toast 

Remove the stems, and place the mushrooms in 
a double wire broiler over the coals, with the gill sides 
down, for about two minutes, or even less if the speci- 
mens are small. The broiler should then be turned, 
and the cooking should proceed for two minutes more; 
towards the end of that time the juicy gills should 
be sprinkled with salt and pepper, a small piece of 
butter being finally melted in each as they are served 
on the hot toast. By this simple method all the 
natural juices of the mushroom are retained and the 
true aroma and flavor is conserved. Bacon toasted 
over the mushrooms is considered by some to im- 
prove the flavor. 

5 Mushrooms a la Provencal 

Take mushrooms of good size, remove the stems 
and cut their tops in halves or quarters, which, with 
the chopped stems, should then be immersed in olive 
oil, spiced with salt, pepper, and a piece of garlic, for 
about two hours. They should then be put into a 
stewpan with oil and cooked over a brisk fire. A 
variation of this method includes the addition of 
chopped meat and the yolks of two eggs, the whole 
being slightly browned in the oven before serving. 

6 Mushrooms a la Creme 

" Trim and rub half a pint of button-mushrooms ; 
dissolve two ounces of butter rolled in flour in a stew- 



RECIPES 309 

pan; then put in the mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, 
a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful each of white 
pepper and powdered sugar; shake the pan around 
for ten minutes, then beat up the yolks of two eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and add by degrees 
to the mushrooms. In two or three minutes you can 
serve them in the sauce."  Worthington Smith. 

7 Mushroom Ragout 

" Put into a stewpan a little stock, a small quantity 
of vinegar, parsley and green onions chopped up, 
salt, and spices. When this is about to boil, the 
mushrooms being cleaned, put them in. When done 
remove them from the fire and thicken with yolks of 
eggs."  Worthmgton Smith. Another recommends 
that the stew should be poured upon toast, or upon 
crusts of bread previously fried in butter. 

8 Stewed riushrooms on Toast. 

Put a pint of mushrooms into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of butter rolled in flour, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a blade of 
powdered mace, and half a teaspoonful of grated lem- 
on ; stew until the butter is all absorbed, then serve 
on hot toast as soon as the mushrooms are tender. 

9 Champis^non 

" Cut in small pieces and seasoned it makes an ex- 
cellent addition to stews, hashes, or fried meats; but 
it should be added only a few minutes before serving, 
as the aroma is dissipated by over-cooking. It is the 
mushroom used in the French a la mode beef-shops 



3IO p:i)ible mushrooms 

in London."  Badham. They may be cooked in any 
of the methods employed for the ordinary mushroom 
already noted. 

10 Chantarelle Stew 

This mushroom, being of rather tough consistency, 
requires long and slow cooking. 

" Cut the mushrooms across and remove the stems ; 
put them into a closely covered saucepan with a little 
fresh butter, and sweat them until tender at the low- 
est possible temperature. A great heat always de- 
stroys the flavor."  Mrs. Hiissey. 

It Hydnum Stew 

Roques, the French mycologist, says of the HycL 
mim repandum : " The general use of this fungus 
throughout France, Italy, and Germany leaves no 
room for doubt as to its good qualities." But very 
little has been said of its companion species, the //. 
captit-mcdusce, described in the foregoing pages, and 
which is certainly greatly its superior in texture and 
flavor. Dr. Harkness considers it one of the most 
delicious morsels among the whole fungus tribe. 

Both species, containing naturally less moisture 
than most mushrooms, are easily dried. When fresh 
they should be soaked in water and cooked slowly 
at low temperature and frequently basted, the dried 
specimens being first soaked in tepid water until their 
original form and pulpy consistency are nearly re- 
gained. 

In a puree the Hydnum makes an appetizing dish, 
with a slight flavor of oysters. 



RECIPES 311 

Roques recommends the following recipe for a 
stew: "Cut the mushrooms into pieces and let them 
steep in warm water for twenty minutes. Then al- 
low them to simmer for an hour in a pan with butter, 
pepper, salt, and parsley, with the addition of beef or 
other gravy." 

Mrs. Hussey recommends stewing in brown or 
white sauce ; in the latter case it will closely suggest 
" oyster sauce." 

Another mushroom  the Lactarius deliciosus  
stewed in a similar manner closely suggests the 
flavor of lambs' kidneys. 

12 Roast Mushrooms 

Mr. Palmer recommends the following: "Cut the 
larger specimens into fine pieces and place them in a 
small dish, with salt, butter, and pepper to taste ; put 
in about two tablespoonfuls of water, then fill the dish 
with the half-open specimens and the buttons ; cover 
tightly and place in the oven, which must not be 
overheated, for about ten minutes. The juice of the 
larger mushrooms will keep them moist, and, if fresh, 
yield a most abundant gravy." 

13 Baked Russula 

See that the mushrooms are free from dirt and grit 
on tops and stems, or rinse in cold water, afterwards 
wiping them dry and shaking off the water from the 
gills; make a mince of the stems, bread- crumbs, 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little butter or oil ; 
pile this upon the gills; place the mushrooms in a 
shallow dish in a hot oven and baste them frequently 



312 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

With the melted butter or oil. In about fifteen minutes 
they will be ready to serve. 

The Oyster Mushroom or its congener, the Agar- 
icus ulmaritis, might both be treated by this method, 
the oyster or fish -like flavor of these species thus 
affording a distinct second course for our menu. 
Either of these Pleurotus species may also be treated 
so as to closely suggest an escalop of oyster or fish. 

14 Baked Procerus 

Remove the stems ; do not rinse the mushrooms 
unless they are soiled, and this species is usually con- 
spicuously clean ; put some slices of toast in a well- 
buttered pie-dish, and, with a little melted butter or 
cream poured over them, lay in the mushrooms ; 
sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of 
minced parsley which has previously been rubbed 
with onion or garlic ; cover the dish with a plate 
and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes and serve 
in the dish. The aroma is thus conserved, and, upon 
being released at the table, will prove a most savory 
appetizer. 

15 Cottagers' Procerus Pie 

The following appetizing recipe is recommended 
by Robinson : " Cut fresh Agarics in small pieces, 
cover the bottom of a pie-dish with small, thin slices 
of bacon, and place the mushroom fragments upon 
them, with the addition of salt and pepper; upon 
this place a layer of mashed potatoes, following again 
with other similar layers of bacon, mushrooms, and 
potatoes, until the dish is filled, the last layer of 



RECIPES 313 

potato answering for a crust; bake in the oven for 
half an hour, and brown before a brisk fire." 

Doubtless many other species of mushroom would 
lend themselves equally well to this particular treat- 
ment. 

16 Baked Qambosus 

" Place some fresh -made toast, nicely divided, on a 
dish, and put the Agarics upon it ; pepper, salt, and 
put a small piece of butter on each; then pour on 
each one a tablespoonful of milk or cream, and add a 
single clove to the whole dish; place a bell-glass or 
inverted basin over the whole ; bake twenty minutes, 
and serve up without removing the glass until it comes 
to the table, so as to preserve the heat and aroma, 
which, on lifting the cover, will be diffused through 
the room."  Cooke. "A great . quantity of gravy 
comes out of it, mingled, in the case of a good 
specimen, with osmazome, which tastes very much 
like the similar brown exudation on the surface of a 
roast leg of mutton."  Robinson. 

17 Fried Mushrooms on Toast 

Place a pint of mushrooms in a pan, with a piece 
of butter about the size of an egg; sprinkle in a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper; 
when the butter is nearly absorbed, thicken with 
fresh butter and flour and pour upon hot toast, which 
should be served hot. 

18 riushrooms with Bacon 

Fry a few rashers of nice streaky bacon in the 
pan in the usual manner; when nearly done add a 



314 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

dozen or so of mushrooms, and fry them slowly until 
they are cooked. In this process they will absorb 
all the fat of the bacon, and, with the addition of a 
little salt and pepper, will form a most appetizing 
breakfast relish. 

19 Mushrooms en Caisse 

The following is recommended as a dainty by 
Worthington Smith : " Peel the mushrooms lightly 
and cut them into pieces ; put them into cases of 
buttered paper, with a bit of butter, parsley, green 
onions, and shallots chopped up; salt and pepper; 
dress them on a gridiron over a gentle fire and serve 
in the cases." The cases might be made of pastry. 

20 Hungarian Soup of Boleti 

" Dry the Boleti in the oven ; soak the mushrooms 

in tepid water, thickening with toasted bread till the 

whole be of the consistency of a puree ; then rub 

through a sieve, throw in some stewed boleti, boil 

together, and serve with the usual condiments."  

Paulet. 

21 Boletus Fritters 

Persoon recommends this method of treatment of 
the Boletus as very appetizing: The fritters may be 
prepared in the method ordinarily adopted, the slices 
of the mushroom being dipped in batter and brown- 
ed either in the frying-pan or in the hot fat, after the 
manner of the doughnut. 

22 Beefsteak riushroom 

This species is claimed to resemble meat in flavor 



RECIPES 315 

more than any other fungus. The gravy, in quality 
and color, would certainly deceive a most discrimi- 
nating palate. Like many of the Polyporei, it is com- 
paratively slow in maturing, occasionally, it is said, 
requiring two weeks ere it reaches its prime, when it 
may acquire a large size. 

It should be gathered before its maturity to insure 
tenderness, though the older, tougher individuals, cut 
in pieces and cooked separately, will yield a quantity 
of rich red gravy, to be added to the dish of more 
tender specimens. " If it is not beef itself," says Mrs. 
Hussey, " it is sauce for it." " If sliced and grilled it 
would pass for a good beefsteak," says Cooke, with 
truth. Mrs. Hussey recommends that it should be 
sliced and macerated in salt, the deep- red liquor 
which exudes should be put hot into a dish with a 
little lemon-juice and minced shallots, and a broiled 
steak deposited in it. It may also be variously 
stewed or fricasseed with excellent results, and af- 
fords a delicious soup with savor closely suggesting 
beef broth or cmisomme clair. A ** beef- steak " pie 
made on the foregoing recipe prescribed for the 
Procerus would doubtless prove a most appetizing 

entree. 

23 The Oyster Mushroom 

" It may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, 
and is equally good in all," says a distinguished con- 
noisseur  in soups, stewed, broiled, curried, baked, 
in the form of an escalop, patties, or vol-au-veiil, or 
fried with butter in the form of fritters. In all cases 
where the fungus itself is to be eaten, the specimens 
should be young and tender, the older individuals, 
17 



3l6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

if free from insects, might be used for soups. See 
Recipe 13. 

24 Polyporu5 Stew 

The beautiful sulphur-colored Polyporus described 
in my previous pages when stewed closely suggests 
the tender white meat of chicken or veal, and might 
lend itself to various deceptive dishes, as, for instance, 
soups, croquettes, fricassees, or patties. 

Only the tender young plant should be employed, 
and a little experience will suggest various appetizing 
methods of treatment. 

25 Ragout of Morels or Helvella 

The following is an old-time recipe of Persoon: 
" Pick and clean your fungi and cut them in two ; 
wash and dry them well by wiping; then put them in 
a stewpan with butter, or a piece of ham or bacon ; 
place them over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in a little lemon-juice, give a few turns, 
and then add salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg? 
cook slowly for an hour, pouring on at intervals small 
quantities of beef gravy or jelly broth to prevent burn- 
ing; when done, thicken with yolks of eggs." The 
lemon-juice is omitted by many, who consider it a pos- 
itively unpalatable as well as unwholesome ingredient. 

26 Stuffed Morels 

Dr. Badham's work contains the following recipes 
from Persoon, which, from the peculiar construction 
of the fungus, affords a contrast to ordinary methods: 
" Choose the freshest and whitest Morels ; open the 



RECIPES 317 

Stalk at the bottom ; wash and wipe them well ; fill 
with veal stuffing, anchovy, or any rich farce you 
choose, securing the ends and dressing between 
slices of bacon. Serve with a sauce." 

27 Morelles a la Italienne 

Here is another skilful compound from the same 
source : *' Having washed and dried the mushrooms, 
divide them across; put them on the fire with some 
parsley, scallion, chervil, burnet, tarragon, cives, a 
little salt, and two spoonfuls of fine oil ; stew until 
the juice runs out, then thicken with a little flour. 
Serve with bread-crumbs and a squeeze of lemon." 

28 Clavaria Stew 

Badham gives the following recipe for the Clavaria, 
or coral fungus: "After sousing in tepid water and 
wiping perfectly clean, the fungus should be * sweat- 
ed * over a slow fire, afterwards to be strained and the 
liquor thrown away; stew for an hour; add salt, pep- 
per, cloves, and parsley to taste, masking with plain 
stock and dredging occasionally with flour. Thicken, 
with yolks of eggs and cream." 

29 Fried Clavaria 

The simple process of browning in butter or oil in 
the frying-pan, with the addition of pepper and salt, 
and serving hot on buttered toast or with fried eggs, 
will be found a most palatable method of treating 
this fungus. For those who are willing to sacrifice 
the characteristic y^^ flavor to a savor more pro- 
nounced, the Clavaria is also said to be delicious 



3l8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

when fried with onions or with curry in the usual 

method. 

30 Puff-ball 

Fritters, Omelettes, Sweetbreads, and Souffle 

As already described, the Puff-balls in their white- 
pulp condition are esculent and afford a delicate rel- 
ish. The species Giganteus sometimes attains a 
diameter of nearly two feet, and where such a speci- 
men or even much smaller ones are situated at an 
easily available distance, we may profit by the hint 
of Vitadini, the Italian mycologist: "Cut off a slice 
at a time, cutting it horizontally, and using great care 
not to disturb its growth, to prevent decay, and thus 
one may have a fritter every day for a week." Dr. 
Curtis calls this species the " Southdown of mush- 
rooms." His opinion of its merits as food will be 
shared by others who give it a trial: " It has a deli- 
cacy of flavor that makes it superior to any omelette 
I have ever eaten. It seems, furthermore, to be so 
digestible as to adapt itself to the most delicate stom- 
ach." Mrs. Hussey, the pioneer English authority, 
recommends the following recipe: " First remove the 
outer skin; cut in slices half an inch thick; have 
ready some chopped herbs, pepper, and salt; dip the 
slices in the yolk of egg, and sprinkle the herbs upon 
them ; fry in fresh butter and eat immediately." 

The extreme tenderness and delicacy of the Puff- 
ball thus cooked resembles a souffle, and suggests 
many possibilities of appetizing variations and com- 
binations, as, for example, with jelly, in the form of 
an entremet or dessert. By many the flavor of the 
Puff-ball has been compared to ** sweetbread," and 



RECIPES 319 

doubtless so cooked and served would afford an 
agreeable variation in the menu. Indeed, it may be 
prepared in a variety of ways, as suggested for other 
species, but from its peculiar consistency is particu- 
larly adapted to frying in the pan. With chopped 
ham or thinly sliced smoked beef it might furnish a 
good substitute for the ham-omelette or frizzled beef. 
Another addition to our entremets might be availed 
of in the ** jelly mushroom," Hydnum, or Tremelodon 
gelatinosum^ which is not described in this volume. 
It is eaten raw, either plain or with milk and sifgar, 
and is said to be of most delicate flavor. 

31 riushroom Salad 

According to Cooke, the Beefsteak mushroom 
before mentioned is employed as an entremet in Vien- 
na, the fresh fungus being cut in thin slices and eat- 
en as a salad. The fresh, crisp young Russula mush- 
rooms thus served also furnish a very appetizing 
relish, with the usual varieties of dressing as in the 
various sauces, mayonnaise, French dressing, etc. 
The Polyporus sulphureus having been boiled and 
allowed to cool might furnish a deceptive " chicken " 
salad. Doubtless other species of mushrooms  Cla- 
varia, for example  would lend themselves acceptably 
to this method of serving. Cordier recommends this 
latter species as " appetizing even when raw." 

32 Pickled riushrooms 

Select the mushrooms in the round-button condi- 
tion and before expansion; immerse them in cold 
water for a few moments, then drain them; cut off the 



320 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Stalks, and gently rub off the outer skin with a moist 
flannel dipped in salt; boil the vinegar, adding to 
each quart two ounces of salt, half a nutmeg grated, 
a dram of mace, and an ounce of white pepper-corns; 
put the mushrooms into the vinegar for ten minutes 
over the fire; then pour the whole into small jars, 
taking care that the spices are equally divided ; let 
them stand a day, then cover them. 



33 riushroom Catsup 

Large quantities of mushrooms of various species 
are annually consumed in Europe in the manufacture 
of catsup. Following is one of the many favorite 
foreign recipes: 

Place the Agarics, of as large a size as you can 
procure, layer by layer in a deep pan ; sprinkle each 
layer with a little salt; the next day stir them well 
several times, so as to mash and extract their juice; on 
the third day strain off the liquor, measure and boil 
for ten minutes, and then to every pint of liquor add 
half an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce 
of bruised ginger-root, a blade of mace, a clove or two, 
and a teaspoonful of mustard-seed; boil again for 
half an hour, put in two or three bay-leaves, and set 
aside until quite cold ; pass through a strainer, and 
bottle ; cork well and dip the ends of the bottle in 
melted resin or beeswax ; a very little Chili vinegar 
is an improvement, and some add a glass of port- 
wine or of ale to every bottle. Care should be taken 
that the spice is not so abundant as to overpower 
the true flavor of the mushrooms. 



RECIPES 321 

34 Dried Mushrooms 

It will often happen in a normal fungus season that 
the production will exceed the possibility of consump- 
tion, and thousands of pounds of delicious mushrooms 
will thus be left to decay in their haunts. 

The process of drying mushrooms for winter use is 
in most extensive practice by the peasantry of Europe 
and Britain, who thus find an all- the-year- round de- 
pendence upon mushroom diet. 

With most species this process of desiccation is so 
simple that it is recommended, in the confident belief 
that, once tried, the winter mushroom will hereafter af- 
ford a frequent relish upon many a board and will well 
repay the slight trouble in their summer preparation. 

In most of the Agarics  notably the Campestris, 
Procerus, Champignon, Russula, Chantarelle  simply 
threading on strings and hanging in the sun and 
wind, or festooned above the kitchen range, will be 
sufficient to reduce them to complete dryness in a 
few hours. Indeed, some of these, such as the Pro- 
cerus and Champignon, dry spontaneously in their 
haunts, and may be thus gathered. 

In the instances of more fleshy fungi, such as the 
Boleti, Polyporei, and Coprinus, more rapid desicca- 
tion is necessary. By exposing them in the sun on 
a tin roof or absorbent paper the moisture is rapidly 
evaporated. They might also be suspended above 
the kitchen range in a wire basket and thus quickly 
dried. In Boleti the drying is facilitated by the 
removal of the whole pore layer, which is easily sep- 
arated from the cap. 



322 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The Clavaria and Morel are very simply dried, even 
in ordinary house temperature. Strung upon threads 
and suspended in the sun or near the fire they would 
very quickly be reduced to absolute dryness. 

Mushrooms thus treated seem to retain their aro- 
ma; in Procerus, Clavaria, Morel, Helvella, and " Fairy- 
ring " being intensified above that of their moist con- 
dition and most appetizing. 

The desiccated specimens should be kept in a dry 
place, with good circulation of air, or enclosed in her- 
metically sealed tin boxes ; in the latter case being 
occasionally examined to insure against mould by 
possible absorption of moisture. 

When desired for use they are simply soaked in 
tepid water, which, by gradual absorption, causes the 
specimens occasionally to assume almost their orig- 
inal dimensions and juicy character, when they should 
be treated as recommended for the fresh mushrooms. 



For the benefit of the vegetarian, or the curiously 
or experimentally inclined, I append a few sugges- 
tions apropos of a menu a la mode, in which the fun- 
gus might be employed with good effect as a rival to 
the familiar established prandial delights. Each se- 
lection is numbered with reference to its particular 
descriptive or suggestive paragraph in the preceding 
pages of the chapter. 

A feast based upon these recommendations, re- 
enforced with appropriate adjuncts  the " mother "- 
born vinegar, the fungus -leavened loaf, the fungus- 
foaming beaker  might cumulatively prove a per- 
suasive plea for the creed of vegetarianism. 



^..._^...,,,.^,..^,._ 



C/Jbenu 



Consomme de bcEuf clair, as 

S Potage a la puree d'huitres, i, n, 13 

S Potage a la puree de boeuf, aa 

J Potage a la puree de volaille, 34 

 Poissons 

h 

^ Cotelettes de poisson  Sauce aux 

p champignons, 13 

5 Escalope de poisson, 13 

2 Croquettes de ris de veau, 24 
;i Bouchees au poulet, a4 

^ ttelctJce 

3 Filet de boeuf aux champignons, aa, aj 

i mrcr6 

6 Omelette aux jambon, 30 
I Rognons d'agneau, n 

jt Pate de biftecks, aa 

: Beignettes d'huitres, 13, 23 

 Huitres en curry, 23 

J Petits vols-au-vent d'huitres ou bou- 

J chees d'huitres, 13, as 

* Fricassee de poulet, a4 

3 (Entremets 

ri Salad de Russula au mayonnaise, 3* 

^ Salad de Fistulina. 31 

q Salad de Clavaria, 31 

8 Salad de volaille, 31 

lOessert 

Omelette souffle au gelee, 30 



I 



Ponding souffle, jo C 

Gelee de Hydnum, 30 ^ 



CO tbUogzapky 

AMERICAN 

1. Geological and Natural History Sun^ey of North Carolina. 
Part III. Botany. Containing a catalogue of the indigenous and 
naturalized plants of the State. By Rev. M. A. Curtis, D.D., etc. 
Raleigh, 1867. (Out of print.) 

2. Mushrooms of America, Edible and Poisonous. Edited by 
Julius A. Palmer, Jr. Numerous colored plates. Published by 
L. Prang & Co., Boston, 1885. 

3. About Mushrooms. A Guide to the Study of Esculent and 
Poisonous Fungi. A collection of various articles upon the sub- 
ject. By Julius A. Palmer. Lee & Shepard, Boston, 1894. 

4. Boleti of the United States. A catalogue containing full de- 
scriptions of one hundred and eight species. (No illustrations.) 
By Professor Charles H. Peck, State Botanist, State Hall, Albany, 
N. Y. Annual Report of the State Botanist issued by the Board 
of Regents, Albany University. 

Professor Peck has also published a series of papers on " Edi- 
ble Mushrooms " in The Country Gentleman, of Albany, N. Y. A 
new work from him on this subject is in preparation. 

5. Pacific Coast Fungi. By Dr. H. W. Harkness and Justin P. 
Moore. 1880. A catalogue. 

6. The Deadly and Minor Poisons of Mushrooms. By Charles 
Mcllvaine. Reprint from the Therapeutic Gazette. George S. 
Davis, Detroit, Mich. Quoted in present volume. Captain Mc- 
llvaine is also the author of several popular articles on the subject 
of esculent mushrooms which have appeared in various journals 
and magazines. 

7. Fungi Caroliniani Exsiccati. Five Fasciculi, one hundred 
specimens in each. By H. W. Ravenel, of Aiken, S. C. John 
Russell, Charleston. 

8. Bulletins of United States Department of Agriculture, Wash- 
ington, D. C. By Thomas M. Taylor, Chief of the Division of 
Microscopy. Washington, D. C, 1893-94. Five issues, with many 
colored plates of various specimens, both edible and poisonous ; 
also full directions for cultivation of the common mushroom. 



326 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

9. Notes for Mushroom Eaters, By W. G. Farlow. Pamphlet. 
Illustrated. Garden & Forest Publishing Co., New York. 

ENGLISH 

\o. Illustrations of British Mycology. (Hand-painted.) By Mrs. 
T. J. Hussey. Reeve Brothers, London, 1847. An admirable 
work, the pioneer treatise in Great Britain ; rare ; reference copies 
only in prominent libraries. 

11. Esculent Funguses of England, By Rev. Dr. C. I). Badham. 
With twenty colored plates. 8vo. L. Reeve & Co., London. 1870. 

12. A Plain and Easy Account of the British Fungi; with De- 
scriptions of the Esculent and Poisonous Species, Details of the 
Principles of Scientific Classification, and a Tabular Arrangement 
of Orders and Genera. By M. C. Cooke, M.A., LL,D. With 
twenty-four colored plates. R. Hardwick, Piccadilly, London, 
187 1. An excellent, inexpensive, and popular hand-book. 

13. Outlines of British Fungology. Containing Characters of 
above a Thousand Species of Fungi, and a Complete List of all 
that have been described as Natives of the British Isles. By 
Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. Lovell Reeve, Henrietta 
Street, Covent Garden, London, i860. Beautifully illustrated 
with twenty-four lithographic hand -colored plates by W. Fitch, 
each plate presenting several species, and including a number of 
the esculent. 

14. Mushrooms and Toadstools : How to Distinguish Easily the 
Differences between Edible and Poisonous Fungi. With two 
large sheets containing figures of twenty-nine edible and thirty- 
one poisonous species drawn the natural size, and colored from 
living specimens. By Worthington T. Smith, F.L.S. 2d edition, 
R. Hardwick, 192 Piccadilly, London, 1875. 

15. /4 Selection of the Eatable Funguses of Great Britain, Edited 
by Robert Hogg, LL.D., and Geo. W. Johnson, F.R.H.S. Nu- 
merous excellent hand-colored plates. 

16. Fungi: Their Nature and Uses, By M. C. Cooke, M.A., 
LL.D.; edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. In 
"International Scientific Series." D. Appleton & Co., N. Y. 
A very full and condensed epitome of the science of fungology. 

17. Hand-book of British Fungi. By M. C. Cooke. 2 vols. 
Macmillan & Co., London, 187 1. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 327 

18. Illustrations of British Fungi. Atlas to accompany above. 
By M. C. Cooke. Williams & Norgate, London, 1889. 

19. Scottish Cryptoganiic Flora. 6 vols. Hy R. R. Greville, 1823. 

20. Fungi-hunters'' Guide. By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lovvrey & Co., London, 1887. 

21. Elementary Text-book. By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

22. British Fungi. By John Stevenson. William Blackwood & 
Sons. London, 1886. 

23. Mushroom Culture. By W. Robinson. F. Warne & Co., 
London, 1870. Containing full directions for the cultivation of 
mushrooms ; also an extended chapter upon common wild species. 
Illustrated with wood-cuts, numerous recipes, etc. 

FKKNXH 

24. Plantes Usuelks. Par Joseph Roches. Vol. IV., containing 
the Edible and Poisonous Fungi : also his Histoire des Cham- 
pignons Comestibles et Tene-neux. Elegantly illustrated. Paris, 
1838. 

25. Les Champignons : Histoire, Description, Culture, Usages 
des Esp^ces Comestibles, Ve'neneuses, Suspectes, etc. Par F. S. 
Cordier. With sixty chromo - lithographs. 4th edition. Paris, 
1876. 

26. Histoire Naturelle des Champignons. By G. Sicard. C. H. 
Delagrave, Paris, 1883. Numerous colored plates. Rare. Copy 
in Astor Library, N. Y. 

27. Botanique Cryptogamigue^ ou Histoire des Families Naturelles 
des Plantes Infirieures. Par J. Payer, Docteur bs Sciences, etc. 
With 1 105 engravings on wood. Victor Masson, Paris, 1850. 

28. Des Champignons. (Orfila Prize Essay.) By Emile Boudier. 
J. B. Balli^re, Paris, 1866. 

29. Champignons. By L. M. Gautier. J. B. Balli^re et Fils. 
Paris, 1884. 

30. Figures Feintes de Champignons. By Captain L. Lucand. 
Friedlander & Son, Berlin, 1882. (Reference copy at Massachu- 
setts Horticultural Society.) 

31. Les Champignons. By J. Moyen. J. Rothschild, Paris, 1889. 

32. Nouvelle Flore. By J. Constantin and Leon Dufour. Paul 
Dupont, Paris, 1891. 







Acknowledgments. 40. 

AgaricacecE, order of the, 77. 

Agaricini, 75-178 ; botanical characters 
of, 79. 

Agarics, edible, 80-178 ; Curtis's list 
of, 9-12. 

Agaricus,^% 44 ; vegetation of, 44-47. 
85-92, 107 ; botanical characters of, 
77-79. 283. 

Agaricus, species of :  Amanita, see 
Amanita ;  an>ensis, 85, 91 ; epicu- 
rean opinions of, 94 ;  campestris, 
9, 13, 21, 24. 80-95, 307, 308, 321 ; 
the ** Mushroom," 16-22 ; variations 
in, 89-93 ; spore-print of, 283 ;  
candicans, 86;  euosmus, 147;  
fusipes, 299 ;  gambosus, 95-101 ; to 
cook, 313;  heterophylla, see Rus- 
sula ;  Marasmius arcades, 101-108; 
 me Ileus, 10,28;  orcella, 300;  os- 
treatiis, 10, 26, 141-I48, 303, 307 ; 
pratensis, 91 \ procerus, 10, 86, 87, 
I13-II9, 312, 321;  ruber, 300;  
ulmarius, 10, 26, 27, 148-154, 303, 



3 1 2 ;  vaporarius, 91 ;  villaticus,^! ; 

 virescens, 300. See, also, Russula, 

Coprinus, Lactarius, Chantarelle, and 

Marasmius. 
Agrippina, victim of Amanita, 59. 
Amanita, genus of, readily identified, 2, 

23. 74, 273. 

 Botanical characters of, 29, 33, 41- 

51. 79. 273. 

 The cup or volva in, 29, 33, 47, 48, 

57. 74. 273- 

 Vegetation and development of, 44, 
45, 74 ; the veil or shroud of, 48. 

 Fatalities from eating, 2, 15, 29, 60 ; 
a dangerous enemy, 15, 23, 29 ; ** sil- 
ver test " upon. 26 ; effect of salt and 
heat upon, 29. 

 Poison of, 48, 60 ; chemical nature 
of poison of, 48, 61 ; Czar Alexis, 52; 
Agrippina, 59 ; intoxication from, 59, 
60 ; dipsomaniacs, 59, 60 ; isolation 
of poison of, 6 1 ; absorption of poison 
of, by contact and odor, 30, 69 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of poison of. 



330 



INDEX 



38, 39 ; antidote for poison of, 61-68 : 
report of a case of poisoning by, 63- 
66 ; poison of, extracted by vinegar, 

71. 
Amanita^ Poisonous species of :  vfr- 
nus, 17, 25, 51 ;  mttscaritis^ 51, 73 ; 
spore-print of, 289, 291;  phalloidfs^ 

51. 74. 

 Edible species of, 73 ; Cccsarea^ 
ruhcscenSy strobiiifomtis, 9, 12, 48. 

Amanitine, 60 ; antidote, 62. 

Alexis, Czar, victim of Amanita, 52. 

America and Europe, comparative ap- 
preciation of fungi in, 299. 

American and European fungi identi- 
cal, 12. 

American mycophagists, 8, 9, 15. 

Antidotes for mushroom poisoning, 62, 
67, 68. 

Ants attacked by fungi, 295. 

Asci in fungi, 256. 

AscomyceteSy 256. 

Asiatic Russia, Amanita dipsomaniacs 
of, 59- 

Bacterium bacillus, 7, 8. 

Badham, Dr. C. D., quoted, xii., 12, 

13, 40. 177, 189. 237, 246, 299. 301, 

306, 310, 316. Bibliography, No. 

II, 326. 
Baked mushrooms, 31 1-3 13. 
Basket for gathering mushrooms, 36. 
'* Beefsteak " mushroom, 11, 27, 213- 

217, 303; to cook, 314; as salad, 

319- 

Bees and wasps, 36. 

Beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Belladonna. See Atropine. 

Berkeley, Rev. M. J., variations in 
Campestris, 40, 91 ; quoted, 107, 237, 
246, 294, 301. Bibliography, Nos. 
13 and 16, 326. 

Bibliography  American, 325; Eng- 
lish, 326 ; French, 327. 

Bitter Boletus, 208. 

Blights, 7. 



Blue mould, 78. 

Blue-stain Boleti, 196. 

BoUti, 182-213; botanical characters 
of, 181-184, 285 ; hawk fed upon, 
302 ; fritters of, 314 ; soup of, 314; 
to dry, 321. 

Boletus, characters of, 182 ; various 
edible, 10, 26, 182-213 \ spore-print 
of, 285. 

Boletus^  alveolatus^ 183, 201, 2o8 ;  
castaneus, 10 ;  chrysenteron^ 195- 
20 r :  collinitusy 10 ;  cyanesccns, 
201, 207 ; cone-like, 202 ;  eduHs, 
10, 13, 16, 18, 189, 190, 300 ; artificial 
cultivation of, 86 ; crimson, 213 ; 
 c'legaris, lo \^'elietis, 207,208-213; 
 flavidus^ 10 ;  granulatus, 10 ;  
luUus, 10 ;  satanaSy 207, 208 ;  
scaber, 10, 191- 195 ;  subtomentosus^ 
10, 26, 183, 195 ; blue stain of, 196, 
201, 207 ;  strobilomycfSy 202-207 ; 
spore-print of, 281 ;  vfrsipeiiis, 10. 

Botanical discrimination, 31, 32. 

 discrimination of Amanita. See 
Amanita. 

Boudier, Emile. Bibliography, No. 28, 

327. 
Biri'ista nii^it'scens, 10. 

 plumbca^ 10. 
Broiled mushrooms, 308. 

Bubhola maggiore. See Pasture Mush- 

room. 
Bulbosine, 60. 

Campestris. See Agaricus. 
Cantharcllus,  cibarius^ 10, 27, 172- 

178, 300;  aurantiacus^ 178; to 

cook, 310; drying of, 321. 
Caterpillar fungi, 295. 
Catsup, Mushroom, 320. 
Champignon *' Fairy- Ring," 27, 87. 

95; to cook, 309 ; dried, 321. 

 Poisonous, 108, 113. 
Chantarelle. See Cantharellus. 
** Chef ^ la mode," the, 305. 
Chemical analysis of fungi, 14, 302. 



INDEX 



331 



Chestnut-burr fungus, 294. 
Chestnut tongue. See Fistulina. - 
Chicken flavor in mushrooms, 303, 316. 
Chinese caterpillar fungus, 296. 
Cicada fungus, 295. 
Classification of fungi, 77, 78. 
Claudius, Emperor, poisoned, 59. 
Clavariei, 231, 247-256. 
Clavariay Various, 10, 11 ;  amethys- 

tina, fastigiata^ flava^ rugosa, stricta^ 

umbrina^ 255 ;  botrytis, 256 'r-for- 

mosa, 247; to cook, 317; used as 

salad, 319 ; to dry, 322. 
Club fungi. See Clavaria. 
Cogomelos. See Pasture Mushroom. 
Colored plates of the book, 39. 
Coniomycetes^ 78. 
Consomm^ from mushrooms, 315. 
Cooke, Rev. Dr. M. C, 40, 59, 214, 

237. 273, 295, 306, 307. 313. 315. 

Bibliography, Nos. 12, 16, 17, 326 ; 

No. 18, 327. 
Cooking fungi, 72, 306-322. 
Coprinusy 87; to dry, 321 \-^atramen' 

tortus, II, 27, 28, 161, 163 ;  coma- 

tus, II, 87, 154-160. 
Coral fungi. See Clavaria. 
Cordier, F. S., 246, 248, 306, 319. 

Bibliography, No. 25, 327. 
Correspondents, 2-6. 
Cortinaritts castaneuSf cinnamomeus, 

viol(ueuSy II. 
Cosmopolitan fungi, 12. 
CouUmelle. See Pasture Mushroom. 
Crimson Boletus, 213. 
Cryptogamia, the, 7. 
Crystals on drying fungi, 227. 
Culinary ** treatment" of fungi, 72, 

214, 304- 

Cultivation of mushrooms, 85, 86. Bib- 
liography, No. 8, 325 ; No. 23, 327. 

**Cup,*' the, in Amanita, 29, 33, 47, 

48. 57. 74, 273. 
Currie, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 
Curtis, Rev. M. A., pioneer American 

mycophagist, 9, 32, 40. 



Curtis's, Rev. M. A. , list of edible mush- 
rooms, 9-12 ; quoted, 219, 245, 301, 
318. Bibliography, No. I, 325. 

Cystidium, the, 77, 256. 

Deadly mushrooms and toadstools, 

2. 3. 43-74. 

Deaths by fungi, 43, 61. 

Decaying fungi, 6, 25, 30, 278. 

Delagrave, C. H. Bibliography, No. 
26, 327. 

Desiccation of fungi, 107, 119, 246, 262, 
321. 

Diagnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 38, 63-68. 

Doe-skin mushroom. See Hydnum 
repandum. 

Dried fungi. See Desiccation of fungi. 

Dufour, J. Constantin and Leon. Bib- 
liography, No. 32, 327. 

Dust-like fungi, 78. 

Economic fungology, 7, 13, 14. 

Edible Amanitas, 9, 12, 73. 

Edible mushrooms, number of species, 
2, 7, 32, 60; list of, by Curtis, 9-12; 
popular tests for identification, 22, 
23; become poisonous from contact 
with Amanita, 70. 

Elm mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 148-154, 
303. 312. 

Elvellacei, 231. See Helvella. 

Emetic mushroom. See Russula. 

Epicurean perversity, 72. 

European and American fungi iden- 
tical, 12. 

European mycologists, 14, 326, 327. 

Fairy-ring mushroom, 95, 101-108 ; 
cause of "ring," 102, 107 ; recipes for 
cooking, 107, 108; false or poison- 
ous, 108, 1*13. 

False Champignon, 108. 

Farlow, W. G. Bibliography, No. 9, 
326. 

'* Fish mushroom," 154, 303, 312. 



332 



INDEX 



Fistulina hfpatica, ii, 26, 27, 213, 
299, 303; to cook, 314; as salad, 

319. 

Fly, Fungus attacking, 295. 

Fly-poison, Amanita, 27, 51, 52, 72. 
Sec Amanita muscarius. 

Food, Fungi as, 8, 13-15. 35. 221, 245, 
299-323. 

 Foxfire,'* 227. 

France, Fungus-eaters of, 14. 

Fried mushrooms, 313-318. 

Fries, Fungologist, 268. 

Fritters of fungi, 314, 318. 

Fungi. See, also. Toadstools, Mush- 
rooms, and Moulds. 

 by mail, 4, 5. 

 Chemical constituents of, 14, 302. 

 Classification of, 77, 78. 

 Common tests for ** Edible," and 
their reputation, 17-21, 24-29. 

 Coral. See Clavaria. 

 Crystals on, 227. 

 Cultivation of, 85, 88. Bibliog- 
raphy, No. 8, 325 ; No. 23, 327. 

 Desiccation of, 119, 246, 262, 301, 
310, 321. 

 Economic, 7, 13. 

 Edible. See Agaricus Boletus, 
Clavarei, Fistulina. Helvella, Morel, 
Mushroom, and Puff-balls. 

 Fastidiousness in vegetation, 86-88, 
294. 

 Gill-bearing (Agarics), 78, 178. 

 Hawk fed upon, 302. 

 Hygrometric properties of, 119. 

 Insects infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36- 
38, 135. 

 List of works on, 325. 

 Medical, 277. 

 Menu for fungus repast, 323. 

 Miscellaneous, 231-274. 

 Mycelium, or spawn, of, 44, 45, 77, 
85, 88, 92, 107. 

 Number of species of, 6. 30, 60. 

 on caterpillars and chrysalids, 295. 

 on chestnut-burr, 294. 



Fungi on house-fly, 295. 

 opposed to cultivation, 86-88. 

 Ornamental forms of, 227. 

 Phosphorescent, 227. 

 Physiological features of, 15. 

 Poisoning by, 2, 15, 29; diagnosis 
and treatment, 37 ; remedies, 38, 
39; intoxication from, 59; antidotes, 
62, 67, 68; report of poisoning case, 
63-66 ; poisoning by contact and 
odor, 69; edible species inoculated 
by contact, 70. 

 Popular distrust of, 15, 21. 

 Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

 Raw, eaten as salad, 248, 319. 

 Recipes for cooking, 306-319. 

 simulating animal food, 15, 30, 302. 

 Spores and Spore-print of, 277-296. 

 Study of, 7. 

 traditions and superstitions, 22, 23. 

 Vegetation of. 44, 47, 85-92, 107, 
294. 

 Whims of habitat of, 294. 
Fungologists, Amateur, safe rules for, 

33. 
Fungus food in Europe and America, 
8, 13-15. 35. 299. 

 gnats, flies, and beetles, 37. 

Gasteromycetes, 78. 

Gathering mushrooms, Rules for, 35,36. 

Gautier, Dr. M. L., 62. Bibliography, 

No. 29, 327. 
Germany, Fungus-eaters in, 14. 
Gill-bearing mushrooms, 75-178. 
Gnats infesting fungi, 37. 
Greville, R. R. Bibliography, No. 19, 

327. 
"Grubs" in fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135. 

Harkness, Dr. H. W., 32, 245, 310. 
Bibliography, No. 5, 325. 

Hawk fed upon Boleti, 302. 

Hawthorne, Nathaniel, allusion to fun- 
gus phosphorescence, 228. 



INDEX 



333 



Hay, William D. Bibliography, Nos. 
20, 21, 327. 

Heat destroys poison, 29, 72. 

Hedgehog mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Helvella crispa, 11, 231, 261, 262; oth- 
er species, 1 1 ; recipes for cooking, 
262, 316; to dry, 322. 

Historical fungi, 43, 59, 60. 

Hogg, Robert, LL.D. Bibliography, 
No. 15, 326. 

Horse mushroom. See Agaricus ar- 
vensis. 

House-fly fungus, 295. 

Hungarian soup of Boleti, 314. 

Hussey, Mrs. T. J., 40, 306, 310, 311, 
315, 318. Bibliography, No. 10, 
326. 

Hydnei, 231-247; to cook, 310. 

Hydnum, yyo, 307;  caput-medusa, 11, 
27, 238-243; rfpandum, ir, 28, 232- 
238 ;  ruffscens, 237, 238 ;  coraU 
loides, 245;  gelatinosum, 319. 

 Various edible species of, 1 1 ; to 
cook, 246. 

Hygrometric fungus, 119. 
Hygtophorus eburneus and praUnsis, 

II. 
Hymenium of fungi, 78. 
Hymenomycetes , 78. 
Hyphomycetes, 78. 

Identification of fungi, 31. 

Idiosyncrasy, 30, 61. 

Indigestibility of certain species, 

30. 
Inky mushroom, 28. See Coprinus. 
Insects attacked by fungi, 295. 

 infesting fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36, 38, 

135. 
Intoxication by Amanita, 59. 
Introduction, i. 
Italy, Fungus-eaters of, 14, 86. 

Jelly-like mushroom, 319. 
Johnson, Geo. W. Bibliography, No. 
15, 326. 



Kamchatka, Amanita dipsomaniacs 

of, 59, 60. 
Ketchup, Mushroom. See Catsup. 
Koppe, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 

Lactarius, Poisonous, 61. 
Lactarius, Various edible species of, 11; 

 ddiciosus, 28, 166-171, 300, 311; 

piperatus,2'^, 171;  volemum, 171. 
Lambs' kidneys, Flavor of, in fungi, 

300, 311. 
Letters to the author, 4. 
Liver mushroom. See Fistulina. 
Lucand, L. Bibliography, No. 30, 327. 
Luminous fungi, 227. 
LycoperdacecEy 267. 
Lycoperdon, See PufF-ball. 

 bovista, II. 

 structure of, 270. 

Mailing fungus specimens, 4. 

MarasmiuSy  scorodoneus^ 1 1 ;  oreades^ 
II, IOI-I08;  urens, 108-111; ^<?- 
ronatus\ 109-113. 

Mcllvaine, Captain Charles, 32; rule 
regarding edibility of fungi, 35 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 39, 40, 62 ; fastidious- 
ness of fungi, 86, 184, 208. Bibli- 
ography. No. 6, 325. 

Meadow Mushroom. See Agaricus 
campesiris. 

Medical and Surgical Reporter c^oit^y 
62. 

Medusa Mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Menu of mushrooms, 323. 

Microbes, 7. 

Microscopic fungi, 7. 

Mildew, 7, 78. 

Milky mushroom. See Lactarius. 

Miscellaneous fungi, 231-274. 

Mock oyster soup, 306. 

Moore, Justin P. Bibliography, No. 

5. 325. 
Alonitenr Scientijique, quotation from, 
61. 



334 



INDEX 



Morchella escuUnta. See Morel. 

 caroliniana^ 12. 

Morel, 12, 231, 256; to cook, 316; to 

dry, 322. 
Mortality in mushroom poisoning, 

43. 
Moss-mushroom, 245. 
' Mother," 7. 
Moulds, 7, 78. 

Moyen, J. Bibliography, No. 31, 327. 
' Muscarine" poison, 60. 
"Mushroom" and "Toadstool," 16- 

21. 
Mushrooms. See Toadstools, Agari- 

cus, Boletus, Polyporei, Fistulina, 

and Fungi. 

 4 la cr^me, 308. 

 ^ la Proven 9al, 308. 

 Analysis of, 289-291. 

 Baked, 31 1-3 13. 

 Basket for, 36. 

 Bibliography, No. 8, 325; No. 23,327. 

 Broiled, 308. 

 by mail, 4. 

 catsup, 320. 

 Chemical nature of, 14, 61. 

 Chestnut-burr, 294. 

 Classification of, 77, 78. 

 Cosmopolitan types of, 12. 

 Cultivation of, 85, 86. Bibliogra- 
phy, No. 23, 327. 

 Drying of, for food, 119, 246, 262, 
301, 310, 321. 

 Edible, 8, 13-15. 32. 

 Edible species : plentiful supply 
of. 13, 35. 303; Beefsteak, 11, 27; 
Coral, see Clavaria ; Elm, 10 ; 
" Fairy-ring," 95, loi ; False Fairy- 
ring, 108, 109; Horse, 85, 91-95; 
Inky, II, 20, 28, 88 ; Meadow, see 
Agaricus campestris ; Milky, see 
Lactarius ; Moss, 245 ; Oyster, see 
Agaricus ostreatus ; Pasture, 10, 13, 
113; Russulae, 110^141; Spine- 
bearing, see Hydnum ; St. George's, 
95-101. 



Mushrooms, Fastidiousness of most 
species of, 86, 294. 

 Fried, 313, 317. 

 Fritters of, 314, 317. 

 Insects infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135- 

 Large specimens of, 92. 

 List of works on, 325. 

 Menu, 323. 

 Melting. See Coprinus. 

 Milky. See Lactarius. 

 Moss. See Hydnum. 

 Mycelium or spawn of, and vegeta- 
tion of. 44, 45, 77, 85-88, 92, 107. 

 Number of edible species of, 2, 7, 9, 
32, 60; identification of, 2, 31; Cur 
tis's list of, 9-12; nourishing prop- 
erties of, 14 ; chemical simulation of 
animal food by, 15, 30, 302; popular 
tests for detecting, 22, 23; refuta- 
tion of same, 24-29 ; desiccation of, 
119, 321; recipes for cooking, 306- 
322. 

 Number of general species of, 6. 

 Pickled, 319. 

 pie, 312. 

 Poisonous species of, 2, 15, 17, 43- 
74 ; deadly species of, 2, 15, 43-74 ; 
poison by contact with, 30, 69; vine- 
gar, sweet oil, and whiskey, 39 ; diag- 
nosis and treatment of poisoning, 
39,63-66; historical poisoning by, 43, 
59, 60; fatalities from, 43,61; intoxi- 
cation from, 59, 60; poison discrim- 
inated, 61 ; antidotes, 62, 67, 68 ; 
report of a poisoning case, 63-66 ; 
harmless mushrooms inoculated from 
poisonous, 70 ; salt, vinegar, and 
heat, 29, 39. 71, 72. See, also, Ama- 
nita, Russula emetica^ Boletus, and 
False Champignon. 

 Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

 Roast, 311. 

 Rules for gathering, 36, 70. 

 Rural authorities on, 16-22. 

 salad, 319. 



INDEX 



335 



Mushroom soup, 306, 307, 323. 

 spawn. See Mycelium. 

 spores. See Spores and Spore- 
prints. 

 Stewed, 307. 308-311, 315-317. 

 tube. See Polyporei. 

 Testing new species of, for edibility, 

33- 

 Whims of habitat of, 294. 
Afycetes fungi, 77. 

Mycology and mycophagy, 3, 4, 7, 8. 

 Medical and economic, 7, 8, 13-15, 

35. 277. 
Mycophagists of America, 8, 9. 

 Amateur, safe rules for, 38. 

Nero, 59; poisonous mushrooms used 

by, 43. 
Night, Fungi luminous by, 227 
Nourishing properties of mushrooms, 

14. 

Oak-tongue fungus. See Fistulina. 
Odor of Amanita poisonous, 69. 
Omelet, Mushroom, 277, 278, 318. 
Orcella^ Agaric, 300. 
Oyster mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 141-148; 
to cook, 303, 311, 315. 

 flavor in fungi, 237, 247, 300, 303, 
307, 310. 312. 

Packyma cocos, II. 

Palmer, Julius A., quoted: "Silver 
test," 25, 32, 40 ; on Amanita poison, 
61, 69-71, 184, 207 ; on mushroom 
food, 303, 306, 311. Bibliography, 
Nos. 2, 3, 325. 

Pasture, or parasol, mushroom, 9, 13, 
80, 113. 

Paulet, 306, 314. 

Paxiilus involuius^ II. 

Payer, J. Bibliography, No. 27, 327. 

Peck, Prof. Charles H., 32, 40, 182, 
237, 246. Bibliography, No. 4, 325. 

Persoon, 306, 316. 

Phosphorescence in fungi, 227. 



Pickled mushrooms, 319. 
Pie of mushrooms, 312, 315. 
Plates of the book, 39. 
Pliny on mushroom "tests," 25 ; on 
poisonous mushrooms, 43, 59 ; on 
edible mushrooms, 298. 
Poison-cup. See Amanita. 

Poison of Amanita, 43, 61 ; antidote, 
68 ; poisoning by contact and odor, 
69. 

Poisoning by fungi : Diagnosis and 
treatment, 38, 63, 68; vinegar as 
an antidote, 38, 71 ; antidote, 62, 
68 ; Amanita, 2, 15, 43-74 ; poison- 
ous species identified, 2, 15, 61 ; 
popular poison "tests" refuted, 
17, 21-29 I poisoning by contact, 
30, 69. 

Poisons, fatal and minor, 2, 15, 17, 29, 
30, 61. 

Polyporei, 78, 181-228; to dry, 321. 

Polyporus, various edible species of , 1 1 ; 
 suiphureuSf il, 219, 303; to cook, 
316; botanical character of, 181-184, 
285. 

Popular discrimination between " toad- 
stool" and "mushroom," 16-22; 
popular distrust of fungi, 15. 

Pore-bearing mushrooms. See Boletus, 
Polyporei, and Fistulina. 

Procerus mushroom, 10 ; pie of, 312. 

Puff-ball fungi, 11, 13, 27, 78, 231, 267, 
299; gemmatum, 268; saccatunty 268; 
giganteuniy 268, 318; dissemination 
of spores of, 268, 277-280 ; medical 
use of, 277 ; as food, 277, 318 ; to 
cook, 318. 

"Punk," 37, 181. 

Puree of mushrooms, 307. 

RagoCt of mushrooms, 309, 316. 
Ravenel, H. W. Bibliography, No. 7,' 

325. 
Recipes for cooking fungi, 72, 306- 

322. 
" Ring" in mushrooms, 48, 85, 95. 



336 



INDEX 



Robinson, W., 306, 312, 313. Bib- 
liography, No. 23, 327. 

Roques, Joseph, 237, 306, 310, 311. 
Bibliography, No. 24, 327. 

Rove-beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Rules for the venturesome, 33. 

Russia, Fungus-eaters in, 14 ; fly Ama- 
nita in, 29. 

Russuia, 12, 13, 18, 26, 28;  lepida, 12, 
127;  ahtiacea, 12, 133;  virescens^ 
12, 88, 120, 300 ;  tmftica, 25, 27, 28, 
61, 120. 122, 136-141;  heterophylla, 
134. 300;  rttber, 300. 

Russulce, 119; opposed to cultivation of, 
88; insects infesting, 135; to bake, 
311; as salad, 319; to dry, 321. 

Rust, 7. 

Rustic fungology, 18-22. 

Salad of mushrooms, 319. 

Salt as an antidote, 39, 72. 

' Salt test " of mushrooms, 23, 29. 

Scaly mushrooms. See Amanita^ Aga- 
ricus procerus^ and Boletus strobi- 
loides. 

Schmiedeberg, Dr. , on Amanita poison, 
60. 

*' Scotch Bonnet." See Agaricus pro- 
cents. 

* Sep." See Boletus edulis. 

* Seven Sisters of Sleep," by Rev. Dr. 
M. C. Cooke, 59. 

Shadle, Dr. J. E., 62. 

Shaggy-mane mushrooms, ii, 13; rus- 
tic appreciation of, 19, 27, 28. See 
Coprinus comatus, 

** Shroud " in Amanita. 48. 

Silver, Discoloration of, as a " test," 23. 

Smith, Worthington T., 40, 306, 307, 
309, 314. Bibliography, No. 14, 326. 

Smuts, 7. 

Socket in Amanita. See Volva. 

Souffle of puff-balls, 318. 

Sparassis,  erispa^ 12 ;  luminosa, 12. 

* Spawn," or mycelium, of fungi, 44, 
45, 77, 80, 85-88, 92. 107. 



Specimens by mail, 5. 

Spiders attacked by fungi, 295. 

Spine-bearing mushrooms, 11, 27. See 
Hydnum. 

Spore-prints from mushrooms, 44, 277- 
296 ; from Amanita muscarius, 287, 
289 ; from Boletus, 285, 287 ; from 
Agaricus campestris, 283. 

Spore surface, or hymenium, 78, 182. 

Spores of fungi, 79, 87, 182, 268, 277- 
296; number of, 279; buoyancy of, 
278-293; various colors of , 287; va- 
rious forms of, 293. 

Sporidiifcra, 77, 231, 256. 

Sporifera^ 77, 78, 231, 256. 

Staphylinus beetles infesting mush- 
rooms, 37. 

Stevenson, John. Bibliography, No. 
22, 327. 

Stew of fungi, 307, 308-311, 315-317- 

St. George's mushroom, 95-101. 

Strobilomyces, 202. 

Styptic, Puff-balls used as, 277. 

Sulphur mushroom, 219, 303; to cook, 
316 ; as a salad, 319. 

"Sweetbreads" in fungi, 300, 303. 

Sweet-oil treatment for mushroom poi- 
soning, 39. 

Taylor, Thomas M. Bibliography, 
No. 8, 325. 

Teeth-bearing mushrooms. See Hyd- 
num. 

Tertullian on toadstools, 17. 

Testing new species for edibility, 33. 

"Tests" or "proofs" for the detec- 
tion of poisonous species, 17, 21-29. 

Therapeutic Gazette^ quotation from, 

39. 

Thore, Dr., quoted, 86. 

Thread-like fungi, 78. 

"Tinder," 37, 181. 

"Toadstool" and " Mushroom," 16- 
21, 36; popular discrimination of, 16- 
24; popular tests for their discrimina- 
tion and their refutation, 17-22, 24- 



INDEX 



337 



29. See Mushroom, Fungi, Agaricus, 

Amanita, Boletus, Polyporei, Morel, 

Clavaria, Helvella. 
*' Toadstools," 181. 
*' Touchwood," 37, 181. 
Tremella mesenterica^ 12. 
Tremelodon ge latinos um^ 319. 
Tiichogastres, 231. See Puff-balls. 
Tube mushrooms. See Polyporei, 

Boletus, and Fistulina. 

Vegetarian, Menu for the, 304, 323. 
Veil in mushrooms, 48, 60, 85. 
Vigier, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 



Vinegar as an antidote for mushroom 

poisoning, 39, 71. 
Vitadini, 31S. 
Volva in Amanita, Importance of, in 

classification, 29, 33, 48, 77. 

Warty mushrooms. See Amanita, 
Pasture Mushroom, and Strobyio' 
myces. 

Wasps and bees, 36. 

 Fungus attacking, 295. 

Whiskey in mushroom poisoning, 39. 

Wormy specimens of fungi, 25, 30, 34, 
36-38, 135. 











fl1011tS2T71 




b8901 1652971a 



ALBERT R. MANN 
' LIBRARY 



AT 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY 




Cornell University Library 
QK 617.G45 



Our edible toadstools and mushrooms and 




3 1924 002 064 842 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924002064842 







The Deadly Amanita, 



Our Edible 
Toadstools and Mushrooms 

;ind 

How to Distinguish Them 

A Selection of Thirty Native Food yarieties 
Easily Recognisable by their Marked indi- 
vidualities, with Simple Rules for the 
Identification of Poisonous Species 




By W. HAMILTON GIBSON 



WITH THIRTY COLORED PLATES 
AND FIFTY-SEVEN OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE AUTHOR 



NEW YORK AND LONDON 

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 

1903 



THE WORKS OF W. HAMILTON GIBSON. 

ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR. 

SHARP EYES. A Rambler's Calendar among Birds, Insects, and 

Flowers. 8vo, $5 oo. 
HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS; or, Saunterings in New England. 

4to, %^ 50. 
STROLLS BY STARLIGHT AND SUNSHINE. Royal 8vo, $3 50. 
HAPPY HUNTING-GROUNDS. A Tribute to the Woods and 

Fields. 4to, $7 50. 
PASTORAL DAYS; or. Memories of a New England Year. 

4to, tl 50. 
CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS, and the Tricks of Trapping and 

Trap-making. i6mo, %i 00. 

NEW YORK AND LONDON : 
HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS. 



(^ a,oi t 



Copyright, 1895, by Harper & Brothers. 



All rights reserved. 



% 



t^-^ a*Lc4 t<rtoU:U- 



' For those who do hunger after the earthlie 
excrescences called mushrooms."  Gerarde. 




^<jJf<^cPla\e,'i> 




PAGE 

1. The Deadly "Amanita" Fronthpiece 

2. Mycelium, and early vegetation of a mushroom ... 45 

3. Amanita vernus  development 49 

4. Agaricus (Amanita) muscarius 55 

5. Agaricus campestris 83 

6. Agaricus campestris  various forms of 89 

7. Agaricus gambosus 99 

8. Marasmius oreades. "Fairy-ring" 105 

9. Poisonous Champignons. M. urein  M. peronatiis . . . in 

10. Agaricus procerus 117 

11. Agaricus (Russula) virescens 123 

12. Edible Russulee. /?. heteropkvl I a  R. aliitacea  R. lepida . 131 

13. Russula emetica 139 

14. Agaricus ostreatus 145 

15. Agaricus ulmarius 151 

16. Coprinus comatus i57 

17. Coprinus atramentarius 163 

18. Lactarius deliciosus 169 

19. Cantharellus cibarius I75 

20. Boletus edulis 187 

21. Boletus scaber I93 



LIST iiF I'LATES 

22. Edible Boleti. B. nibloiiii-iilo^in B. ibrisnitnoii .... 199 
25. Strobiloinyces strobilaceus 205 

24. Suspicious Boleti. B.ulU-iix~B. jl'd-oljtns 211 

25. Fistulina hepatica 217 

26. Polyporus sulphureus 225 

27. Hydnuiii lepaiidLun 235 

28. Hyduum caput-iiiedusa 241 

29. H\'dnuni caput-medusa-  habitat 243 

30. Clavaria formosa 251 

31. Various forms of Cla\aria 253 

32. Morchella esculenta 259 

33. Helvella crispa 265 

34. A group of Puff-balls 271 

35. Spore-surface and spore-print of Agaricus 283 

36. Spore-surface and spore-print of Polyporus (BoUiiis) . 2S5 

37. Spore-print of .Amanita iiiuscarius 289 

38. Action of slight draught on spores 291 



f ' J ^ 






IT- J! >-^^-''." 







>pi&'*^ 




"Whole hundred- 
weights of rich, isohole- 
some diet rotting under the 
trees; zvoods teeming with 
food and not one hand to 
gather it ; and this, perhaps, in 
the midst of porverty-'Und all ^ 
manner of privations and & ,,, 
Yfs^- public prayers against ^' , 
imminent famine." sAj ,, 

C. D. BADHAM J 






t^ 





Q^ntxodactioD 




I PROMINENT botanical authority con- 
nected with one of our universities, 
upon learning of my intention of per- 
petrating a popular work on our ed- 
ible mushrooms and toadstools, was inclined 
to take issue with me on the wisdom of such 
publication, giving as his reasons that, owing 
to the extreme difficulty of imparting exact 
scientific knowledge to the " general reader," such a 
work, in its presumably imperfect interpretation by 
the very individuals it is intended to benefit, would 
only result, in many instances, in supplanting the 
popular wholesome distrust of all mushrooms with 
a rash over-confidence which would tend to increase 
the labors of the family physician and the coroner. 
And, to a certain extent, in its appreciation of the 
difficulty of imparting exact science to the lay mind, 
his criticism was entirely reasonable, and would cer- 
tainly apply to any treatise on edible mushrooms for 
popular circulation which contemplated a too exten- 
sive field, involving subtle botanical analysis and nice 
differentiation between species. 



2 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But when we realize the fact  now generally con- 
ceded  that most of the fatalities consequent upon 
mushroom - eating are directly trace- 
identification g^i^jg ^Q Qjjg particular tempting group 

fatal species of fungi, and that this group is more- 
over so distinctly marked that a tyro 
could learn to distinguish it, might not such a pop- 
ular work, in its emphasis by careful portraiture and 
pictorial analysis of this deadly genus  placarding 
it so clearly and unmistakably as to make it readily 
recognizable  might not such a work, to that extent 
at least, accomplish a public service ? 

Moreover, even the most conservative mycologist 
will certainly admit that out of the hundred and fifty 
of our admittedly esculent species of 
Conservative fungi there might be segregated a few 
mycology which bear such conspicuous charac- 
ters of outward form and other unique 
individual features  such as color of spores, gills, 
and tubes, taste, odor, surface character, color of 
milky juice, etc.  as to render them easily recogniz- 
able even by the " general reader." 

It is in the positive, affirmative assumption of these 
premises that the present work is prepared, com- 
prising as it does a selection of a score or more, as 
it were, self-placarded esculent species of fungi, while 
putting the reader safely on guard against the fatal 
species and a few other more or less poisonous or 
suspicious varieties which remote possibility might 
confound with them. 

Since the publication of a recent magazine article 
on this topic, and which became the basis of the pres- 



INTRODUCTION 3 

ent elaboration, I have been favored with a numerous 
and ahnost continuous correspondence upon mush- 
rooms, including letters from every 

interest "in State in the Union, to say nothing of 

mushrooms Canada and New Mexico, evincing the 
wide -spread interest in the fungus 
from the gustatory point of view. The cautious 
tone of most of these letters, in the main from neo- 
phyte mycologists, is gratifying in its demonstration 
of the wisdom of my position in this volume, or, as 
one of my correspondents puts it, " the frightening of 
one to death at the outset while extending; an invita- 
tion to the feast." " Death was often a consequence 
of toadstool eating," my friend continued, " but I 
never before realized that it was a certain result with 
any particular mushroom, and to the extent of this 
information I am profoundly thankful." 

While, then, from the point of view of desired popu- 
larity of my book, the grim greeting of a death's-head 
upon the frontispiece might be consid- 

Caution at ered as something of a handicap, the 
the threshold author confesses that this attitude is 
the result of " malice prepense "' and 
deliberation, realizing that he is not offering to the 
" lay public," for mere intellectual profit, this scientific 
analysis of certain fungus species. Were this alone 
the raison d'etre or the logical outcome of the work 
 mere identification of edible and poisonous species 

the grewsome symbol which is so conspicuous on 

two of my pages might have been spared. But when 
it is remembered that with the selected list of escu- 
lent mushrooms herein offered is implied also an in- 



4 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

vitation and a recommendation to the feast thereof, 
with the author as the host  that the digestive func- 
tions of his confiding friends or guests are to be 
made the final arbiters of the correctness of his bo- 
tanical identification  the ban of bane may as well 
be pronounced at the threshold. Let the too eager 
epicurean be " scared to death at the outset," on the 
general principle ^r<? bono publico, and to the concilia- 
tion of the author's conscience. 

The oft-repeated queries of other correspondents 
suggest the wisdom of a clearer definition of the 
limitations of the present work. Sev- 
To corre= eral individuals have written in surprise 
spondents of their discovery of a new toadstool 
which I " did not include in my pict- 
ured magazine list," with accompaniment of more or 
less inadequate description and somewhat enigmatical 
sketches, and desiring the name of the species and 
judgment upon its esculent qualities. Such corre- 
spondence is a pleasing tribute to an author, and is 
herewith gratefully acknowledged as to the past and, 
with some mental reservations, welcomed as to the 
future. The number of these communications  oc- 
casionally several in a day, and with consequent rapid 
accumulation  renders it absolutely impossible for a 
busy man to give them the prompt personal atten- 
tion which courtesy would dictate. My " mushroom " 
pigeon-hole, therefore, is still plethoric with the un- 
honored correspondence of many weeks; and inas- 
much as the continual accession more than balances 
the number of my responses, a fulfilment of my obli- 
gations in this direction seems hopeless in contem- 



INTRODUCTION 



plation. I would therefore beg the indulgence of 
such of my friends as have awaited in vain for my 
reply to their kind communications, even though the 
future should bring no tidings from me. All of 
these letters have been received, and are herewith 
acknowledged : many of them, too, if I may be par- 
doned what would seem to be a most ungracious 
comment, for which the "dead-letter" office would 
have been the more appropriate destination. 

I refer to the correspondence " with accompany- 
ing specimens," the letter occasionally enclosed in 

the same box with the said specimens, 

Consider the which, upon its arrival, arouses a protest 

recipient from the local postal authorities, and 

calls for a liberal use of disinfectants 
 a disreputable -looking parcel, which, indeed, would 
appear more consistently referable to the health- 
board than to the mycologist. So frequent did this 
embarrassing episode become that it finally necessi- 
tated the establishment of a morgue for the benefit 
of my mushroom correspondents, or rather for their 
" specimens," usually accompanied with the queries, 
"What is the name of this mushroom? Is it ed- 
ible ?" I have been obliged to write to several of my 
friends that identification of the remains was impos- 
sible, that the remnant was more interesting ento- 
mologically than botanically, and begging that in the 
future all such similar tokens shall be forwarded in 
alcohol or packed in ice. 

" First impressions are lasting " and '' a word to 
the wise is sufficient." I would suggest that corre- 
spondents hereafter consider the hazard of an intro- 



6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

duction under such questionable auspices. Most spe- 
cies of mushrooms are extremely perishable, and 
their " animal " character, chemically 
considered, and their tendency to rapid 
decomposition, render them unfit for 
transportation for any distance, unless 
hermetically sealed, or their decay otherwise antici- 
pated. 

In the possibility of a continuance of this corre- 
spondence, consequent upon the publication of this 
present book, the writer, in order to forefend a pre- 
sumably generous proportion of such correspondence, 
would here emphasize the fact that he is by no 
means the authority on mycology, or the science 
of fungi, which the attitude of his inquiring friends 
would imply. Indeed, his knowledge of species is 
-quite limited. An early fascination, it is true, was 
humored with considerable zeal to the accumulation 
of a portfolio of water-colors and other drawings of 
various fungi  microscopic, curious, edible, and poi- 
sonous  and this collection has been subsequently 
added to at intervals during his regular professional 
work. 

More than one of the originals of the accompany- 
ing colored plates have been hidden in this portfolio 
for over twenty years, and a larger number for ten 
or fifteen years, awaiting the further accumulation of 
that knowledge and experience, especially with refer- 
ence to the edibility of species, w'hich should warrant 
the utterance of the long-contemplated book. 

The reader will therefore kindly remember that 
out of the approximate looo odd species of fungi en- 



INTRODUCTION 7 

titled by their dimensions to the dignity of "toad- 
stools " or " mushrooms "  after separating the 2000 
moulds, mildews, rusts, smuts, blights, 

muThroom Y^^^ts, " mother," and other microscopic 
species species  and out of the 150 recom- 
mended edible species, the present work 
includes only about thirty. This selection has direct 
reference to popular utility, only such species having 
been included as offer some striking or other indi- 
vidual peculiarity by which they may be simply iden- 
tified, even without so-called scientific knowledge. 

The addition of color to the present list enables 
its extension somewhat beyond the scope of a series 
printed only in black and white, as in the distinction 
of mere form alone an uncolored drawing of a certain 
species might serve to the popular eye as a common 
portrait of a number of allied species, possibly includ- 
ing a poisonous variety. 

While the study of " fungi " has a host of devotees, 

the mysteries which involve the origin of life in this 

great order of the cryptogamia having 

Mycology and had fascinating attractions to micro- 

mycophagy scopical students and specialists, the 
study of economic mycology has been al- 
most without a champion in the United States. Thus 
we have many learned treatises on the nature, struct- 
ure, and habits of fungi  vegetative methods, chem- 
ical constituents, specific characters, classification  
learned dissertations on the microscopical moulds, 
mildews, rusts and smuts, blights and ferments, to 
say nothing of the medico-scientific and awe-inspiring 
potentialities of the sensational microbe, bacterium 



8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

bacillus, etc., which are daily bringing humanity with- 
in their spell and revolutionizing the science of medi- 
cine. But among all the various mycological publi- 
cations we look in vain for the great desideratum of 
the practical hand-book on the economic fungus  
the mushroom as food! The mycologist who has 
been courageous enough to submit his chemical 
analysis and his botanical knowledge of 

Need of fungi to the test of esculence in his own 
a practical .  . 

work bem^ IS a vara avis among them ; in- 
deed, a well-known authority states tha:t 
"one may number on the fingers of his two hands 
the entire list of mycophagists in the United States." 
The absence of such works upon the mushroom and 
" toadstool," greatly desired for reference at an early 
period of my career, and little better supplied to- 
day, led to a resolve of which this volume is but an 
imperfect fulfilment. 

The special character of my volume, then  the 
collateral consideration of the fungus as food^will 
be sufficient excuse for the omission of 
Limitations of a merely technical discourse upon the 
this volume structure, classification, and vegetation 
of fungi as a class  a field so fully cov- 
ered by other authors more competent to discuss 
these lines of special science, and to a selection of 
whose works the reader is referred in the list here- 
with appended, to a number of which I am indebted 
for occasional quotations. A general idea of the 
methods of dissemination and habitats of fungi will 
be found in the final chapter on " spore-prints," while 
under the discussion of the "Amanita," Agaricus 



INTRODUCTION 9 

campestris, and the " Fairy Ring " the reader is re- 
ferred to a condensed account of the methods of veg- 
etation and growth of fungi sufficient for present 
purposes. Other references of similar character will 
be noted under " Fungi," in Index. 

The most conspicuous disciple of mycophagy  al- 
most the pioneer, indeed, in America  was the late 
Rev. M. A. Curtis, of North Carolina, 

The pioneer -^^hose name heads the bibliography on 

American -  . 

mycophagist page 325. For the benefit of those of 

my readers who may wish to follow 
the subject further than my pages will lead them, 
I append the list of edible species of fungi contained 
in Curtis's Catalogue, each group alphabetically ar- 
ranged, the esculent qualities of many of which he 
himself discovered and attested by personal experi- 
ment. The favorite habitat of each fungus is also 
given, and to avoid any possibility of confusion in 
scientific nomenclature or synonymes, the authority 
for the scientific name is also given in each instance: 

LIST OF EDIBLE AMERICAN MUSHROOMS 
FROM THE CATALOGUE OF DR. M. A. CURTIS 

Agaricus albellus. De Candolle. Damp woods. 

A. (amanita) Casarea. Scopoli. In oak forests. 

A. (amanita) rubescens. Persoon. Damp woods. 

A. (amanita) strobiliformis. Vittadini. Common in woods. 

A. amygdalinus. M. A. Curtis. Rich grounds, woods, and lanes. 

A. arvensis. Schaeffer. Fields and pastures. 

A. bombicinus. Schaeffer. Earth and carious wood. 

A. campestris. Linnaeus. Fields and pastures. 

A. castus. M. A. Curtis. Grassy old fields. 

A. cespitosus. M. A. Curtis. Base of stumps. 

A. columbetta. Fries. Woods. 

A. consociatus. Pine woods. 



lO EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Agariais cietaceu:. Fries. Earth and wood. 

A. esculentus. Jacquin. Dense woods. 

A. excoriatiis. Fries. Grassy lands. 

A. frumentaceous. Bulliard. Pine woods. 

A. giganteiis. Sowerby. Borders of pine woods. 

A. glandulostts. Bulliard. Dead trunks. 

A. hypopithyus. M. A. Curtis. Pine logs. 

A. mastoideus. Fries. Woods. 

A. me.Ueus. Valmy. About stumps and logs. 

A. mutabilis. Schaeffer. Trunks. 

A. iiebularis. Batsch. Damp woods. 

A. odorus. Bulliard. Woods. 

A. ostreatus. Jacquin. Dead trunks. 

A. personatus. M. A. Curtis. Near rotten logs. 

A.pometi. Fries. Carious wood. 

A. procerus. Scopoli. Woods and fields. 

A. primulus. Scopoli. Damp woods. 

A. rachodes. Vittadini. Base of stumps and trees. 

A. radicatus. Bulliard. Woods. 

A. {russula). Schaefifer. Among leaves in woods. 

A. salignus. Persoon. On trunks and stumps. 

A. speciosiis. Fries. Grassy land. 

A. squamosus. Muller. Oak stumps. 

A. sylvaticus. Schaefifer. Woods. 

A. tessellatics . Bulliard. Pine trunks. 

A. idmarius. Sowerby. Dead trunks. 
Boletus bovinus. I,innaeus. Pine woods. 
. castaneus. Bulliard. Woods. 

B. coUinitus. Fries. Pine woods. 
B. edulis. Bulliard. Woods. 

B. elegans. Fries. Earth in woods. 

B. flavidus. Fries. Damp woods. 

B. granulatus. Linnaeus. Woods and fields. 

B. luteus. Linnaeus. Pine woods. 

B. scaber. Bulliard. Sandy woods. 

B. subtomentosus. Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

B. versipellis. Fries. Woods. 

Bovista nigrescens. Persoon. Grassy fields. 

B. plumbea. Persoon. Grassy fields. 
Cantharellus cibarius. Fries. Woods. 
Clavaria aiirea. Schaeffer. Earth in woods. 

C. botritis. Persoon. Earth in woods. 
C. cristata. Holmskiold. Damp woods. 
C.fastigiata. Linnaeus. Grassy places. 
C.flava. Fries. Earth in, woods. 
C.fonnosa. Persoon. Earth in woods. 



INTRODUCTION II 

Clavaria fuUginea. Persoon. Shady woods. 

C. macropus. Persoon. Earth. 

C. muscoides. Linnseus. Grassy places. 

C.pyxidata. Persoon. Rotten woods. 

C. nigosa. Bulliard. Damp woods. 

C. siibtilis. Persoon. Shaded banks. 

C. tetragotta. Schwartz. Damp woods. 

Coprinus atravientarius. Bulliard. Manured ground. 

C. comatus. Fries. In stable-yards. 

Cortinarius castaneus. Fries. Earth in woods. 

C. cin7iamomeus. Fries. Earth and wood. 

C. violaceus. Fries. Woods. 

Fistulina hepatica. Fries. Base of trunks and stumps. 

Helvella crispa. Fries. Pine in woods. 

H. infula. Schaeffer. Earth and pine logs. 

H. lacunosa. Afzelius. Near rotten logs. 

H. sulcata. Afzelius. Shady woods. 

Hydmim caput -meditsce. Bulliard. Trunks and logs. 

H. coralloides. Scopoli. Side of trunks. 

H. imbrkatum. Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

H. laevigatum. Schwartz. Pine woods. 

H. repandum. Linnseus. Woods. 

H. rufescens. Schaeffer. Woods. 

H. subsguamosum. Batsch. Damp woods. 

Hygrophorus eburtteus. Fries. Woods. 

11. pratensis. Fries. Hill-sides. 

Lactarius augustissimus. Lasch. Thin woods. 

Z. deliciosus. Fries. Pine woods. 

L. insuhus. Fries. Woods. 

L.piperatics. Fries. Dry woods. 

Z. subdukis. Fries. Damp grounds. 

Z. vokmus. Fries. Woods. 

Lycoperdon bovista. Linnaeus. Grassy lands. 

Pachyma cocos. Fries. Underground. 

Paxillus i?tvolutus. Fries. Sandy woods. 

Polyporus Berkekii. Fries. Woods. 

P. confiuens. Fries. Pine woods. 

P. cristatus. Fries. Pine woods. 

P. frnndorus. Fries. Earth and base of stumps. 

P. giganteus. Fries. Base of stumps. 

P. kucomelas. Fries. Woods. 

P. ovinus. Schaeffer. Earth in woods. 

P. poi-ipes. Fries. Wooded ravines. 

P. sulphureus. Fries. Trunks and logs. 

Marasmius oreades. Fries. Hill-sides. 

M. scorodoneus. Fries. Decaying \'egetation. 



12 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Morchella Caroliniana. Bosc. Earth in woods. 
M. escuknta. Persoon. Earth in woods. 
Russnla alutacea. Fries. Woods. 
R. lepida. Fries. Pine woods. 
R. virescens. Fries. Woods. 
Sparassis crispa. Fries. Earth. 
S. lamiiiosa. Fries. Oak logs. 
Tremella mesenterica. Retz. On bark. 



In the contemplation of such a generous natural 
larder as the above list implies, Dr. Badham's feeling 
allusion to the " hundred-weights of wholesome diet 
rotting under the trees," quoted in one of my earlier 
illustrated pages, will be readily appreciated. 

In the purposely restricted scope of these pages 

I have omitted a large majority of species in Dr. 

Curtis's list, known to be equally es- 

Restncted culent with those which I have select- 
scope of this 

volume ed, but whose popular cliff erenhahon 

might involve too close discrimination 
and possibly serious error; and while my list is 
probably not as complete as it might be with per- 
fect safety, the number embraces species, nearly all 
of them what may be called cosmopolitan types, to 
be found more or less commonly throughout the 
whole United States and generally identical with Eu- 
ropean species. It will be observed that the list of 
Dr. Curtis is headed by three members of Amanitae. 
The particular species cited are well known to be 
esculent, but they are purposely omitted from my list, 
which for considerations of safety absolutely excludes 
the entire genus Amanita of the ''poison-cup" which 
is discussed at some length in the succeeding chapter. 
For popular utility from the food standpoint my se- 



INTRODUCTION 1 3 

lection presents, to all intents and purposes, a more 
than sufficient list, the species being easily distin- 
guished, and, with proper consideration to their fresh- 
ness, entirely safe and of sufficient frequency in their 
haunts to insure a continually available mushroom 
harvest throughout the entire fungus season. 

The knowledge of their identities once acquired, 

it is perfectly reasonable to assert that in average 

weather conditions the fungus-hunter 

Fungus food confine himself to these varieties 

always ' 

available and still be confronted with an embar- 
rassment of riches, availing himself of 
three meals a day, with the mere trouble of a ramble 
through the woods or pastures. Indeed, he may 
restrict himself to six of these species  the green 
Russula, Puff-ball, Pasture -mushroom, Campestris 
(meadow -mushroom), Shaggy-mane, and Boletus edu- 
lis  and yet become a veritable mycological gour- 
mand if he chooses, never at a loss for an appetiz- 
ing entree at his table. 

In the group of Russulae and Boleti alone, more 
than one conservative amateur of the writer's ac- 
quaintance finds a sufficient supply to meet all diet- 
ary wants. 

What a plenteous, spontanenns hap '^pg'" "f dflinimi'; 
"*" feasting an nually goes bep ;g ;^ing in oi ir 

A neglected . woods and fields ! 
harvest The sentiment of Dr. Badham, the 

eminent British authority on mush- 
rooms, years ago, in reference to the spontaneous 
perennial harvest of wild edible fungi which abound- 
ed in his country, going to wa,ste by the ton, would 



14 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

appear to be as true to-day for Britain as when he 
uttered it, and applies with even greater force to the 
similar, I may say identical, neglected tribute of Nat- 
ure in our own American woods and fields, where the 
growth of fungi is especially rich. 

The fungus-eaters of Britain, it is said, are even 
to-day merely a conspicuous coterie, while in Amer. 
ica this particular sort of specialist is 
Fungus more generally an isolated " crank " who 
epicures is compelled to " fliock alone," contem- 
plated with a certain awe by his less 
venturesome fellows, and otherwise variously consid- 
ered, either with envy of his experience and scientific 
knowledge, or more probably as an irresponsible, who 
continually tempts Providence in his foolhardy ex- 
periments with poison. 

But what a contrast do we find on the Continent in 
the appreciation of the fungus as an article of diet! 
In France, Germany, Russia, and Italy, for example, 
where the woods are scoured for the perennial crop, 
and where, through centuries of popular familiarity 
and tradition, the knowledge of its economic value 
has become the possession of the people, a most im- 
portant possession to the poor peasant who, perhaps 
for weeks together, will taste no other 
Chemical animal food. I say '' animal food " ad- 
constituents visedly; for, gastronomically an d chem - 
ically considered, the flesh of the mu sh- 
j:oom_ _has been proven to be almost identical wi th 
meat, and possesses the same nniin'^hmn r propertie s. 
This animal affinity is further suggested in its physi- 
ological life, the fungus reversing the order of all 



INTRODUCTION 1 5 

other vegetation in imbibing oxygen and exhaling 
carbonic acid, after the manner of animals. It is not 
surprising, therefore, that the analogy should be still 
further emphasized by the discrimination of the pal- 
ate, many kinds of fungi when cooked simulating the 
taste and consistency of animal food almost to the 
point of deception. 

But in America the fungus is under the ban, its 
great majority of harmless or even wholesome ed- 
ible species having been brought into 

Popular popular disrepute through the contami- 
fungi nation, mostly, of a single small genus. 

In the absence of special scientific 
knowledge, or, from our present point of view, its 
equivalent, popular familiarity, this general distrust 
of the whole fungus tribe may be, however, consid- 
ered a beneficent prejudice. So deadly is the insid- 
ious, mysterious foe that lurks among the friendly 
species that it is well for humanity in general that 
the entire list of fungi should share its odium, else 
those " toadstool " fatalities, already alarmingly fre- 
quent, might become a serious feature in our tables 
of mortality. 

But the prejudice is needlessly sweeping. A little 

so-called knowledge of fungi has often proven to be 

a " dangerous thing," it is true, but it 

Fungus food is quite possible for any one of ordinary 
for all intelligence, rightly instructed, to mas- 
ter the discrimination of at least 2. few 
of the more common edible species, while being thor- 
oughly equipped against the dangers of deadly vari- 
eties, whose identification is comparatively simple. 



l6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It is idle to attempt an adjudication of the vexed 
" toadstool " and " mushroom " question here. The 
toad is plainly the only final, appealable 
"^"alfd""'" authority on this subject. It may be 
"mushroom" questioned whether he is at pains to de- 
termine the delectable or noisome qual- 
ities  from the human standpoint  of a particular 
fungus before deciding to settle his comfortable pro- 
portions upon its summit  if, indeed, he even so 
honors even the humblest of them. 

The oft-repeated question, therefore, " Is this fungus 
a toadstool or a mushroom.?" may fittingly be met by 
the counter query, " Is this rose a flower or a blossom.?" 
The so-called distinction is a purely arbitrary, pop- 
ular prejudice which differentiates the " toadstool " as 
poisonous, the " mushroom " being considered harm- 
less. But even the rustic authorities are rather mixed 
on the subject, as may be well illustrated by a recent 
incident in my own experience. 

Walking in the woods with a country friend in 

quest of fungi, we were discussing this " toadstool " 

topic when we came upon a cluster of 

Popular mushrooms at the base of a tree-trunk, 

discrimination their broad, expanded caps apparently 

upholstered in fawn-colored, undressed 

kid, their under surfaces being stuffed and tufted in 

pale greenish hue. 

" What would you call those ?" I inquired. 
" Those are toadstools, unmistakably," he replied. 
" Well, toadstools or not, you see there about two 
pounds of delicious vegetable meat, for it is the com- 
mon species of edible boletus Bo/e^us edulis." 



INTRODUCTION I7 

A few moments later we paused before a beautiful 
specimen, lifting its parasol of pure white above the 
black leaf mould. 

" And what is this?" I inquired. 

" I would certainly call that a mushroom," was his 
instant reply. 

This mushroom proved to be a fine, tempting speci- 
men of the Agaricus {amanita) vernus, the deadliest 
of the mushrooms, and one of the most violent and 
fatal of all known vegetable poisons, whose attractive 
graces and insidious wiles are doubtless continually 
responsible for those numerous fatalities usually dis- 
missed with the epitaph, " Died from eating toad- 
stools in mistake for mushrooms." 

So much, therefore, for the popular distinction which 
makes " toadstool " a synonyme for " poisonous," and 
" mushroom " synonymous with " edible," and which 
often proves to be the " little knowledge " which is 
very dangerous. 

The too prevalent mortality traceable to the mush- 
room is confined to two classes of unfortunates: 
I. Those who have not learned that 

The rustic there is such a thing; as a fatal mush- 
authontieson   1 ^u 4. u 

"mushrooms" room ; 2. 1 he provincial authority who 

can " tell a mushroom " by a number of 
his so-called infallible " tests " or " proofs." There is a 
large third class to whose conservative caution is to 
be referred the prevalent arbitrary distinction be- 
tween " toadstool " and " mushroom," ardent disciples 
of old Tertullian, who believed in regard to toadstools 
that " For every different hue they display there is 
a pain to correspond to it, and just so many modes 



lo EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of death as there are distinct species," and whose 
obstinate dogma, " There is only one mushroom, all 
the rest are toadstools," has doubtless spared them 
an occasional untimely grave, for few of this class, 
from their very conservatism, ever fall victims to the 
" toadstool." 

And what a self-complacent, patronizing, solicitous 
character this rustic mushroom oracle is ! Go where 
you will in the rural districts and you are sure of 
him, or perhaps her^  usually a conspicuous figure 
in the neighborhood, the village blacksmith, perhaps, 
or the simpler " Old Aunt Huldy." Their father 
and " granther " before them " knew how to tell a 
mushroom," and this enviable knowledge has been 
their particular inheritance. 

How well we more special students of the fungus 
know him ! and how he wins our tender regard with 
his keen solicitude for our well-being ! We meet him 
everywhere in our travels, and always with the same 
old story ! We emerge from the wood, perhaps, with 
our basket brimful of our particular fungus tidbits, 
topped off with specimens of red Russula and Bole- 
tus, and chance to pass him on the road or in the 
meadow. He scans the basket curiously as he passes 
us. He has perhaps heard rumors afloat that " there's 
a city chap in town who is tempting Providence with 
his foolin' with tudstools ;" and with genuine solici- 
tude and superior condescension and av^e, all be- 
trayed in his countenance, he must needs pause in 
his walk to relieve his mind in our behalf. I recall 
one characteristic episode, of which the above is the 
prelude. 



INTRODUCTION I9 

" Ye ain't a-goin' to eat them, air ye ?" he asks, anx- 
iously, by way of introduction. 

" I am, most certainly," I respond ; " that is, if I 

can get my good farmer's wife to cook them without 

corning them and inundating them in 

Rustic lemon-juice." 

discrimination " Waal, then, I'll say good-bye to ye," 

he responds, with emphasis. " Why, 

don't ye know them's tudstools, 'n' they'll kill ye as 

sartin as pizen? I wonder they ain't fetched ye afore 

this. You never larned tew tell mushrooms. My 

father et 'em all his life, and so hev I, 'n' I know 

'em. Come up into my garden yender 'n' I'll show 

ye haow to tell the reel mushroom. There's a lot 

of 'em thar in the hot-bed naow. Come along. I'll 

give ye a mess on 'em if ye'll only throw them pizen 

things away." 

" And how do you know that those in your garden 
are real mushrooms .''" I inquire. 

" Why, they ain't anything like them o' yourn. 
They're pink and black underneath, and peel up from 
the edge." 

" How many kinds of mushrooms are there, do you 
suppose .''" I ask. 

" They's only the one kind ; all the others is tud- 
stools and pizen. It's easy to tell the reel mushroom. 
Come up and I'll show ye. Don't eat them things, I 
beg on ye ! I vaow they'll kill ye !" 

At this point he catches a glimpse of a Shaggy- 
mane mushroom, which comes to light as I tenderly 
fondle the specimens, and which is evidently recog- 
nized as an acquaintance. 



20 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" What !" he exclaims, in pale alarm. " Ye aint 
goin' t' eat them too ?" 

" Oh yes I am, this very evening," I respond. " I 
think I'll try them firsts 

" Why, man, yure crazy ! You don't know nothin' 
about 'em. I'd as soon think o' eatin' pizen outright. 
Them's what we call black -slime tud- 
A rustic stools. They come up out o' manure. 
authority I've seen my muck-heap in my barn- 
yard covered with the nasty things time 
'n' ag'in. They look nice 'n' white naow, but they 
rot into the onsiteliest black mess ye ever see. I 
know wut I'm sayin'. Ye can't tell me nothin' 'baout 
them tudstools ! They keep comin' up along my 
barn-fence all thro' the fall  bushels of 'em." 

" Well, my good friend, it's a great pity, then, that 
you have not learned something about toadstools as 
well as mushrooms, for you might have saved many 
a butcher's bill, and may in the future if you will 
only take my word that this much-abused specimen 
is as truly a mushroom as your pink-gilled peeler, 
and, to my mind far more delicious." 

" What ! Do you mean to tell me thet you have 
reely eaten ^em ?" 

"Yes, indeed; often. Why, just look at its clean, 
shaggy cap, its creamy white or pink gills under- 
neath ; take a sniff of its pleasant aroma ; and here ! 
just taste a little piece  it's as sweet as a nut!" I 
conclude, offering him the white morsel. 

" Not much ! I'll make my will first, thank'ee ! 
You let me see ye eat a mess of 'em, and if the coro- 
ner don't get ye, p'r'aps I'll try on't." 



INTRODUCTION 21 

Experiences similar to this one are frequent in the 
career of every mycophagist, and serve to illustrate 
the pity and solicitude which he awakens among his 
fellow-mortals, as well as to emphasize 
"Toadstool" the prevalent superstitions regarding 
prejudice the Comparative virtues of the mush- 
room and toadstool  a prejudice which, 
by-the-way, in the absence of available popular liter- 
ature on the subject, and the actual dangers which 
encompass their popular distinction, is a most benef- 
icent public safeguard. 

The mushroom which " he can tell " is generally 
the Agaricus campestris, or one of its several vari- 
eties ; and knowing this alone, and 
*'*"'"L*nd*^*** tempted by no other, this sort of vil- 
superstitions lagC; Oracle .escapes the fate which of- 
ten awaits another class, who are not 
thus conservative, and who extend their definition of 
mushroom (a word supposed to be synonymous with 
" edible "), and this mainly through the indorsement 
of certain so-called infallible tests handed down to 
them from their forefathers, and by which the escu- 
lent varieties may be distinguished from the poison- 
ous. By these so-called "tests" or "proofs" the 
identification of certain species is gradually acquired. 
The rural fungus epicure now " knows them by 
sight," or perhaps has received his information sec- 
ond-hand, and makes his selection without hesitation, 
with what success may be judged from the incident 
in my own experience already noted  one which, 
knowing as I did the frequency and confidence with 
which my country friend sampled the fungi at his 



22 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

table, filled me with consternation and anxiety for his 
future. 

" How, then, shall we distinguish a mushroom from 
a toadstool ?" 

There is no way of distinguishing them, for they 
are the same. 

" How, then, shall we know a poisonous toadstool 
from a harmless one ?" the reader hopelessly exclaims. 

This discrimination is by no means as difficult as 
is popularly supposed, but in the first place, the stu- 
dent must entirely rid himself of all preconceived 
notions and traditions, such as the following almost 
world-wide " tests," many of which are easily demon- 
strated to be worse than worthless, and have doubt- 
less frequently led to an untimely funeral. Some 
of these are merely local, and in widely separated 
districts are supplanted by others equally arbitrary 
and absurd, while many of them are as old as history. 



WORTHLESS TRADITIONAL TESTS FOR THE DISCRIMINA- 
TION OF POISONOUS AND EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

FAVORABLE SIGNS 

1. Pleasant taste and odor. 

2. Peeling of the skin of the cap from rim to centre. 

3. Pink gills, turning brown in older specimens. 

4. The stem easily pulled out of the cap and inserted in it 
like a parasol handle. 

5. Solid stems. 

6. Must be gathered in the morning. 

7. "Any fungus having a pleasant taste and odor, being found 
similarly agreeable after being plainly broiled without the least 
seasoning, is perfectly safe.'' 



INTRODUCTION 23 

UNFAVORABLE SIGNS 

8. Boiling with a "silver spoon," the staining of the silver in- 
dicating danger. 

9. Change of color in the fracture of the fresh mushroom. 

10. Slimy or sticky on the top. 

11. Having the stems at their sides. 

12. Growing in clusters. 

13. Found in dark, damp places. 

14. Growing on wood, decayed logs, or stumps. 

15. Growing on or near manure. 

16. Having bright colors. 

17. Containing milky juice. 

18. Having the gill plates of even length. 

19. Melting into black fluid. 

20. Biting the tongue or having a bitter or nauseating taste. 

21. Changing color by immersion in salt-water, or upon being 
dusted with salt. 

These present but a selection of the more preva- 
lent notions. Taken in toto, they would prove entirely 
safe, as they would practically exclude every species 
of mushroom or toadstool that grows. But as a rule 
the village oracle bases his infallibility upon two or 
three of the above " rules," and inasmuch as the entire 
list absolutely omits the only one test by which dan- 
ger is to be avoided, it is a seven-days' wonder that 
the grewsome toadstool epitaph is not more frequent. 

I once knew an aged dame who was accepted as a 

village oracle on this as well as other topics, such 

as divining, palmistry, and fortune- tell- 

Absolute jj^ g^jjjj ^j^Q a,te and dispensed toad- 
worthlessness  , . r ,1 1 1 

of above tests stools on a few of the above rules. 

Strange to say, she lived to a good old 

age, and no increased mortality is credited to her 

memory as a result of her generosity. 



24 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

How are these popular notions sustained by the 
facts? Let us analyze theni seriatim and confront 
each with its refutation, the better to show their en- 
tire untrustworthiness. 



POPULAR TESTS REFUTED 

Pleasant taste and odor (i) is a conspicuous feat- 
ure in the regular " mushroom " {Agaricus campestris), 
and most other edible fungi, but as a 

Worthless criterion for safety it is a mockery. 

popular tests The deadly Agaricus amamta, already 
mentioned, has an inviting odor and to 
most people a pleasant taste when raw, and being 
cooked and eaten gives no token of its fatal resources 
until from six to twelve hours after, when its unfort- 
unate victim is past hope. (See p. 68.) 

The ready peeling of the skin (2) is one of the most 
widely prevalent proofs of probation, and is often 
considered a sufficient test ; yet the Amanita will be 
found to peel with a degree of accommodation which 
would thus at once settle its claims as a "mushroom." 
Indeed, a large number of species, including several 
poisonous kinds, will peel as perfectly as the Cam- 
pestris. 

The pink gills ttirning brown (3) is a marked char- 
acteristic of the " mushroom " {A. campestris, Plate 5), 
and, being a rare tint among the fungus tribe, is really 
one of the most valuable of the tests, especially as it 
is limited by rules affecting other pink-gilled species. 

The stem being easily pulled out of the cap (4) ap- 



INTRODUCTION 25 

plies to several edible species, but equally to the poi- 
sonous. 

The notion that edible mushrooms have solid stem,s 
(5) would be a very unsafe talisman for us to take 
to the woods in our search for fungus- 
Worthless food. Many poisonous species are thus 
popular tests solid  the emetic Russula, for example 
 while the alleged importance of the 
morning specim-ens (6) is without the slightest foun- 
dation. 

The passage quoted here (7), or a statement to the 
same effect, was quite widely circulated in the news- 
papers a dozen or more years ago, in an article which 
bore all the indications of authoritative utterance, 
the assumption being that the poisonous mushroom 
would invariably give some forbidding token to the 
senses by which it might be discriminated. 

Woe to the fungus epicure who should sample his 
mushrooms and toadstools on such a criterion as this, 
as the m.ost fatal of all mushrooms, the Amanita ver- 
nus, would fulfil all these requisites. 

The discoloration of silver (8) is a test as old as 
Pliny at least, a world-wide popular touchstone for the 
detection of deleterious fungi, but useful only in the 
fact that it will often exclude a poison not contem- 
plated in the discrimination. On this point, especially 
as it affords opportunity to emphasize a common dis- 
appointment of the mushroom-eater, I quote from a 
recent work by Julius A. Palmer (see Bibliography, 
No. 3): " Mushrooms decay very rapidly. In a short 
time a fair, solid fungus becomes a mass of mag- 
gots which eat its tissue until its substance is honey- 



26 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

combed ; these cells, on a warm day, are charged with 

the vapors of decomposition. Now you put such 

mushrooms as these (and I have seen 

Worthless just such on the markets of Boston and 
popular tests London) over the fire. In boiling, sul- 
phuretted hydrogen or other noxious 
gases are liberated ; you stir with a bright spoon and 
it is discolored ; proud of your test, you throw away 
your stew. Now this is right, but if from this you 
conclude that all fungus which discolors silver is poi- 
sonous and that which leaves it bright is esculent, you 
are in dangerous error. It is the same with fish at 
sea. Tradition says that you must fry a piece of sil- 
ver with them and throw them away if it discolors. 
Certainly the experiment does no harm, and shows a 
decomposition in both cases which might have been 
detected without the charm." Opposed to this so- 
called talisman, how grim is the fact that the deadli- 
est of all mushrooms, the Amanita, in its fresh condi- 
tion, has no effect upon silver. 

The change of color in fracture (9) has long been 
a ban to the fungus as food. But this would ex- 
clude several very delicious species, which turn blu- 
ish, greenish, and red when broken  viz., Boletus sub- 
tomentosus (Plate 22), Boletus strobilaceus (Plate 23), 
and Lactarius (Plate 18). 

The ''toadstools'' with ''sticky tops" thus discrimi- 
nated against (10) include a number of esculent spe- 
cies, Boleti and Russulae, and others, as do also the 
varieties with side-stems (11)  viz., Agaricus ulma- 
rius (Plate 15), Fistulina hepatica (Plate 25), Agaricus 
ostreatus (Plate 14), etc. 



INTKODUCTION 27 

The chistered fungi (y\2) have long been included in 

the black-list without reason, as witness the following 

esteemed esculent species : The Shag- 

Worthless gy-mane (Plate i6), Coprinus atramen- 
popular tests tariiis (Plate 17), Oyster mushroom 
(Plate 14), Elm mushroom (Plate 15J, 
Puff-balls (Plate 34), and Champignon (Plate 8). 

To exclude all fungi which grow in dark, damp 
places (13) is a singular inconsistency, as in some 
localities this would eliminate the very one species of 
" mushroom " admittedly eatable by popular favor. 
In many countries these are regularly cultivated for 
market in dark, damp, subterranean caverns or in 
cellars. Indeed, the " dark, damp place" would appear 
to be the ideal habitat of this the "only mushroom!" 

Equally absurd is the discrimination against those 
growing on wood (14), which again deprives us of 
the delicious Hydnum (Plate 27), the Beefsteak (Plate 
25), Oyster mushroom (Plate 14), Elm mushroom 
(Plate 15), and many others, including Puff-balls 
(Plate 34). If we exclude those growing upon or 
near manure (15), we shall be obliged to omit the 
Coprinus group (Plates 16 and 17), and often the 
" reel mushroom " as well. 

Among the bright-colored species (16), it is true, 
are many dangerous individuals, as, for instance, the 
deadly Fly Amanita of Plate 4, and the emetic 
Russula (Plate 13), but on this fiat we should have to 
reject the other brilliant esculent Russulae (Plates 1 1 
and 12), the brilliant yellow Chantarelle (Plate 19), 
the Lactarius (Plate 18), and various other equally 
palatable and wholesome species. 



28 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The objection against milky -mushrooms (17) would 

serve to exclude the poisonous species of Lactarius, 

but would thus include at least two of 

Worthless the delicious species of the group, L. 
popular tests deliciosus, vj'iih. orange milk (Plate i8)^ 
and L. piperatus, another species with 
white milk not figured in this volume. 

The group of Russule, most of which are esculent, 
is notable for \.\\e.\v gills of even length (18), though 
not all the species are thus characterized. This 
discrimination, however, especially applies to the 
Shaggy-mane (Plate 16), which is conspicuously even- 
gilled, and is a decided delicacy. 

This species, together with its congener, the edible 
Coprinus atram^entarius (Plate 17), are notorious for 
their melting into black fiuid (19), which is thus of no 
significance as a test, although the mushrooms are not 
supposed to be eaten in this stage of deliquescence. 

A fungus which bites the tongue (20) when tasted 
would naturally be excluded from our mushroom diet, 
as would also, of course, those of a bitter or nauseat- 
ing taste ; but several species, notably the Lactarius 
piperatus, as its name implies, is very hot and peppery 
when raw  a characteristic which disappears in cook- 
ing, after which it is perfectly esculent. The same 
applies in a scarcely less degree to the Agaricus 
melleus, and less so to the Hydnum repandum (Plate 
27), and other mushrooms. But the poisonous J^us- 
sula emetica (Plate 13) gives this same hot, warning 
tang, and this rule (17) would at least thus exclude 
the harmful species, and is thus contributive to pop- 
ular safety. 



INTRODUCTION 29 

The salt test (21), with that of the silver charm, is 
also a relic of the dim past, but is absolutely useless 
as a touchstone. Many poisonous spe- 
Worthless cies, notably the Amanita, fail to answer 
popular tests to it. All authorities agree, however, 
that the addition of salt in cooking, or 
the preparatory soaking of specimens in brine, has a 
tendency to render poisonous species, innocuous. In- 
deed, it is claimed that in Russia and elsewhere on 
the Continent many admittedly poisonous species, 
even the deadly Fly Amanita, is habitually eaten sub- 
sequent to this semi-corning process, by which the 
poisonous chemical principle is neutralized. 

Among this long list, and many other equally 

arbitrary and ignorant prejudicial traditions, many 

of which date back to the earliest 

Omission times, it is indeed astonishing to note 
of the only ' .  

true test the conspicuous absence or the one and 

only valuable sign by which the fatal 
species could be unmistakably determined  a symbol 
which was reserved for botanical science to discover: 
the presence of the " cup " in the Amanita, which is 
pointedly emphasized in my Frontispiece, and the im- 
portance of which as a botanical and cautionary dis- 
tinction is considered at more length in the following 
chapter. 

It is well to consider for a moment what is im- 
plied in 

"A POISONOUS MUSHROOM" 

A fungus may be poisonous in various ways : 
I. A distinct and certain deadly poison. 



30 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. The cause of violent digestive or other func- 
tional disturbance, but not necessarily fatal. 

3. The occasion of more or less serious physical 
derangement through mere indigestibility. 

4. Productive of similar disorders through the em- 
ployment of decayed or wormy specimens of perfectly 
esculent species. 

5. These same esculent species, even in their fresh 
condition, may become highly noxious by contact or 
confinement with specimens of the Amanita by the 
absorption of its volatile poison, as further described 
on p. 69. 

And lastly comes the question of idiosyncrasy, a 
consideration which is of course not taken into ac- 
count in our recommendation of cer- 
Concerning tain well-established food varieties. 
idiosyncrasy " One man's food another man's poi- 
son." The scent of the rose is some- 
times a serious affliction, and even the delicious straw- 
berry has repeatedly proven a poison. Even the 
most whplesome mushroom will occasionally require 
to be discriminated against, as certain 
Decaying individuals find it necessary to exclude 
mushrooms cabbage, milk, onions, and other com- 
mon food from their diet. When we 
reflect, moreover, that in its essential chemical affin- 
ities the fungus simulates animal flesh, and many 
of the larger and more solid varieties 
Fresii are similarly subject to speedy decom- 
specimens position, it is obviously important that 
all fu7igi procured for the table should 
be collected in their prime, arid prepared and served as 



INTRODUCTION 3 1 

quickly as possible. More than one case of supposed 
mushroom poisoning could be directly traced to care- 
lessness in this regard, when the species themselves, 
in their proper condition, had been perfectly whole- 
some. 

There can be no general rule laid down for the 
discrimination of an edible fungus. Each must be 
learned as a species, or at least famil- 
"^rufHor*' i^"^^*^ ^s a kind, even as we learn to 
identification recognize certain flowers, trees, or birds. 
Within a certain range this discrim- 
ination is practised by the merest child. How are 
the robin, the chippy, and the swallow recognized, or 
the red clover, and white clover, and yellow clover? 

Even in the instances of species which bear a very 

close outward similarity, how simple, after all, does 

the distinction become. Here, for in- 

Simple stance, is the wild-lettuce, and its mimic, 
botanical ' . ' ' 

discrimination the mulgedium, growing side by side  
to ninety-nine out of a hundred observ- 
ers absolutely alike, and apparently the same species. 
But how readily are they distinguished, I will not say 
by the botanist merely, but by any one who will take 
the small pains of contrasting their specific botanical 
characters  perfectly infallible, no matter how vari- 
ous the masquerade of their foliage. The lettuce has 
yellow blossoms, and a seed prolonged into a long 
beak, to whose tip the feathery pappus is attached. 
The mulgedium has dull bluish flowers, and its pap- 
pus is attached to the seed by a hardly perceptible 
elongation. As with the birds and wild-flowers, so 
with the fungi: we must learn them as species, even 



2,2 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as we learn to distinguish the difference between the 
trefoil of the clover and that of the wood-sorrel, or 
between the innocuous wild-carrot and the poison- 
hemlock, the harmless stag-horn sumach and its 
venomous congener, the Rhus venenata. There are 
parallel outward resemblances between esculent and 
poisonous fungi, but each possesses otherwise its 
own special features by which it may be identified  
variations of gills, pores, spores, taste, odor, color, 
juice, consistency of pulp, method of decay, etc. 

It must not be presumed that the list of edible 
species just cited from the catalogue of Dr. Curtis 
includes all the esculents among the fungi. Dr. 
Harkness has discovered and classified many others. 
Mr. Palmer and Prof. Charles Peck are never at a 
loss for their " mess of mushrooms " among their list 
of nearly a hundred species, while Mr. Charles Mcll- 
vaine, whose name, so far as its practical authority 
is concerned, should appear more prominently in my 
bibliographical list, but who has not yet incor- 
porated his many mycological essays in book form, 
writes me that he has tested gastronomically a host 
of species, and has found over three hundred to be 
edible, or at least harmless. It may be said that the 
probabilities would include a large majority of the 
thousand species in the same category. But this is 
a matter which, in the absence of absolute knowl- 
edge, is mere conjecture. 

Of the forty-odd species which the writer enjoys 
with more or less frequency at his table, he is satis- 
fied that he can select at least thirty which possess 
such distinct and strongly marked characters of form, 



INTRODUCTION 33 

structure, and other special qualities as to enable 
them, by the aid of careful portraiture and brief de- 
scription, to be easily recognized, even by a tyro. 

As previously emphasized, the present work does 
not aim to be complete, nor does it contemplate a 
practical utility beyond its specific recommendations, 
nor will the author assume any responsibility for the 
hazard which shall exceed its restricted list of species. 
On general principles, however, considering the 
proneness of humanity towards the acquisition of for- 
bidden fruit, and reasoning from my 
Humanity ^^^^ actual experience, and that of 
forbidden fruit many others to whom this fascinating 
hobby of epicurean fungology has be- 
come a growing passion, it may almost be assumed 
that the fungus appetite with many of my readers 
will increase by what it feeds on, and the sufficiency 
herewith offered will scarcely suffice. Like Oliver 
Twist, they must needs have more. The glory of a 
new acquisition to the fungus menu, and emulation 
of other rival tyro mycophagists, will doubtless lead 
many enthusiasts to more or less hazardous experi- 
ment among the legion of the unknown species. 
This logical tendency, then, must be met ere my 
book can safely and conscientiously be launched 
upon its career, to which purpose I would append 
the following condensed 

RULES FOR THE VENTURESOME 
I. Avoid every mushroom having a uj>, or sugges- 
tion of such, at base (see Frontispiece, and Plates 3 
and 4) ; the distinctly fatal poisons are thus excluded. 



34 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. Exclude those having an unpleasant odor, a 
peppery, bitter, or other unpalatable flavor, or tough 
consistency. 

3. Exclude those infested with worms, or in ad- 
vanced age or decay. 

4. In testing others which will pass the above pro- 
bation let the specimen be kept by itself, not in con- 
tact with or enclosed in the same basket with other 
species, for reasons given on page 69. 

Begin by a mere nibble, the size of a pea, and gen- 
tle mastication, being careful to swallow no saliva, and 

finally expelling all from the mouth. 

Testing If no noticeable results follow, the next 

new species trial, with the interval of a day, with 

the same quantity may permit of a 
swallow of a little of the juice, the fragments of the 
fungus expelled as before. 

No unpleasantness following for twenty-four hours, 
the third trial may permit of a similar entire fragment 
being swallowed, all of these experiments to be made 
on "an empty stomach." If this introduction of the 
actual substance of the fungus into the stomach is 
superseded by no disturbance in twenty-four hours, a 
larger piece, the size of a hazel-nut, may be attempted, 
and thus the amount gradually increased day by day 
until the demonstration of edibility, or at least harm- 
lessness, is complete, and the species thus admitted 
into the " safe " list. By following this method with 
the utmost caution the experimenter can at best suffer 
but a slight temporary indisposition as the result of 
his hardihood, in the event of a noisome species hav- 



INTRODUCTION 35 

ing been encountered, and will at least thus have the 
satisfaction of discovery of an enemy if not a friend. 

It may be said that any mushroom, omitting the 
Amanita, which is pleasant to the taste and other- 
wise agreeable as to odor and texture when raw, is 
probably harmless, and may safely be thus ventured 
on with a view of establishing its edibility. A prom- 
inent authority on our edible mush- 
rir. Hcllvaine's rooms, already mentioned, applies this 

general rule rule to all the Agarics with confidence. 
" This rule may be established," he 
says: "All Agarics  excepting the Amanitce  mild 
to the taste when raw, if they commend themselves 
in other ways, are edible." This claim is borne out 
in his experience, with the result, already told, that 
he now numbers over one hundred species among 
his habitual edible list out of the three hundred 
which he has actually found by personal test to be 
edible or harmless. " So numerous are toadstools," 
he continues, " and so well does a study of them 
define their habits and habitats, that the writer never 
fails upon any day from April to December to find 
ample supply of healthy, nutritious, delicate toadstools 
for himself and family!' The italicized portion is 
my own, as I would thus emphasize the similar pos- 
sibilities amply afforded even in the present con- 
densed list of about thirty varieties herein described. 

In gathering mushrooms one should be supplied 
with a sharp knife. The mushroom should be care- 
fully cut off an inch or so below the cap, or at least 
sufficiently far above the ground to escape all signs 
of dirt on the stem. They should then be laid gills 



36 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

upward in their receptacle, and it is well to have a 

special basket, arranged with one or two removable 

bottoms or horizontal partitions, which 

Hints to g^j-g ]jept in place by upright props 
mushroom^ .,., ,. . ii 1 

gatherers withm, thus relievmg the lower layers 

of mushrooms from the weight of those 
above them. Such a basket is almost indispensable. 
Before preparing mushrooms for the table, the 
specimens should be carefully scrutinized for a class 

of fungus specialists which we have 

Insects j^Q^ taken into account, and which have 
infesting 
mushrooms probably anticipated us. The mush- 
room is proverbial for its rapid de- 
velopment, but nature has not allowed it thus to 
escape the usual penalties of lush vegetation, as wit- 
ness this swarming, squirming host, minute grubs, 
which occasionally honey-comb or hollow its entire 
substance ere it has reached its prime ; indeed, in 
many cases, even before it has fully expanded or 
even protruded above ground. 

Like the carrion-flies, the bees, and wasps, which in 
early times were believed to be of spontaneous origin 
 flies being generated from putrefac- 
History of tion, bees from dead bulls, and the mar- 
fungus insects tial wasps from defunct "war-horses" 
 these fungus swarms which so speed- 
ily reduce a fair specimen of a mushroom to a melt- 
ing loathsome mass, were also supposed to be the 
natural progeny of the "poisonous toadstool." But 
science has solved the riddle of their mysterious om- 
nipresence among the fungi, each particular swarm 
of grubs being the witness of a former visit of a ma- 



INTRODUCTION 37 

ternal parent insect, which has sought the budding 

fungus in its haunts often before it has fully revealed 

itself to human gaze, and implanted 

History of within its substance her hundred or 

fungus insects more eggs. To the uneducated eye 

these larvae all appear similar, but the 

specialist in entomology readily distinguishes between 

them as the young of this or that species of fly, gnat, 

or beetle. 

As an illustration of the assiduity with which the 
history of these tiny scavenger insects has been follow- 
ed by science, I may mention that in the gnat group 
alone over seven hundred species have been discov- 
ered and scientifically desoribed, many of them re- 
quiring a powerful magnifier to reveal their identities. 

Specimens of infected or decaying mushrooms pre- 
served within a tightly closed box  and, we would 
suggest, duly quarantined  will at length reveal the 
imago forms of the voracious larvee: generally a swarm 
of tiny gnats or flies, with an occasional sprinkling 
of small glossy black beetles, or perhaps a beautiful 
indigo -blue insect half an inch in length, of most 
nervous habit, and possessed of a long and very ac- 
tive tail. This insect is an example of the curious 
group of rove-beetles  staphyliniLs  a family of insect 
scavengers, many of whose species depend upon the 
fungi for subsistence. 

Even the large woody growth known as " punk " 
or " touchwood," so frequently seen upon decaying 
trunks, is not spared. A huge specimen in my keep- 
ing was literally reduced to dust by a single species 
of beetle. 



38 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Considering the prevalence of these fungus hosts, 
it is well in all mushrooms to take the precaution 
of making a vertical section through 
A wise stem and cap, excluding such speci- 
precaution mens as are conspicuously monopo- 
lized, and not being too critical of the 
rest, for the over - fastidious gourmet will often 
thus have little to show for his morning walk. I 
have gathered a hundred specimens of fungi in 
one stroll, perhaps not a quarter of which, upon 
careful scrutiny, though fair of exterior, would be 
fit for the table. The fungus - hunter /r excellence 
has usually been there before us and left his mark 
(see page 135)  a mere fine brown streak or tunnel, 
perhaps, winding through the pulp or stem, where 
his minute fungoid identity is even yet secreted. 
But we bigger fungus -eaters gradually learn to ac- 
cept him  if not too outrageously promiscuous  
as a natural part and parcel of our Hachis aux 
Champignons, or our simple mushrooms on toast, 
even as we wink at the similar lively accessories 
which sophisticate our delectable raisins, prunes, and 
figs, to say nothing of prime old Rochefort ! 

MUSHROOM POISONING 

In conclusion, lest these pages, in spite of the im- 
press of caution with which they are weighted, should 
lead to discomfiture, distress, or more serious results 
among their more careless readers, it is well to devote 
a few lines to directions for medical treatment where 
such should seem to be required. To this end I 
quote a passage from an article in the Therapeutic 



INTRODUCTION 



39 



Gazette of May, 1893, from the pen of Mr. Mcllvaine, 
whose many years' experience with gastronomic fun- 
gi entitles his words to careful consideration : 

" The physician called upon to treat a case of toad- 
stool poisoning need not wait to query after the va- 
riety eaten ; he need not wish to see a 
"^'^frr'* sample. His first endeavor should be 

treatment to ascertain the exact time elapsing be- 
tween the eating of the toadstools and 
the first feeling of discomfort. If this is within four 
or five hours one of the minor poisons is at work, and 
rapid relief must be given by the administration of 
an emetic, followed by one or two moderate doses of 
sweet-oil and whiskey, in equal parts. Vinegar is ef- 
fective as a substitute for sweet-oil. If from eight to 
twelve hours have elapsed, the physician may rest as- 
sured that amanitine is present, and should adminis- 
ter one-sixtieth of a grain of atropine at once." 

This atropine is intended to be injected hypoder- 
mically, and the treatment repeated every half -hour 
until one-twentieth of a grain has been given, or the 
patient's life saved. 

Further consideration of the Amanita and its 
deadly poison and antidote, with details as to treat- 
ment in a notable case, will be reserved for the fol- 
lowing chapter. 

The colored plates in the volume were prepared 
from pencil drawings tinted in water-color, many of 
them direct from nature, several dating back fifteen 
years, and many of them over twenty years, for their 
original sketch. The colors as presented indicate 
those of typical individuals of the various species, and 



40 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

each, in addition to the extended description in the 
text of the volume, is faced by a condensed description 
for ready reference, the usual troublesome necessity 
of turning the pages being thus avoided. 

In each plate dimension marks are shown which 
indicate the expansion of the pileus or cap of the 
fungus in an ideal specimen. 



In the preparation of this work, acknowledgments 

are specially due to Messrs. Julius A. Palmer and 

Charles Mcllvaine for the privilege of 

Acknowledg= liberal quotations from their published 

tnents works, especially with reference to the 

poisonous fungi. The volume is also 

further indebted for occasional extracts from the 

standard works of Prof. Chas. Peck, Mrs. T. J. Hus- 

sey. Rev. Dr. C. D. Badham, Rev. Dr. M. C. Cooke, 

Rev. J. M. Berkeley, Worthington Smith, and Rev. 

M. A. Curtis, all of whose volumes and various other 

contributions on the special subject of mycophagy 

are included in my bibliography on a later page. 

W. Hamilton Gibson 

October i, 1894 WASHINGTON, Conn. 







o^e S)mdl)^manlta 




manda 



'^ 



HE frequency of this terrible foe in all 
our woods, and the ever- recurring fa- 
talities which are continually traced to 
its seductive treachery (some twenty -five 
deaths having been recorded in the public 
journals during the summer of 1893 alone), render 
it important that its teeth should be drawn, and its 
portrait placarded and popularly familiarized as an 
archenemy of mankind. 

As we have seen, from every superficial standpoint, 
this species is self-commendatory. It is, without 
doubt, in comeliness, symmetry, and 
A whited Structure, the ideal of all our mush- 
sepulchre rooms, as it is, indeed, the botanical 
type of the tribe Agaricus, as well as 
its most notorious genus. Since the time of that 
carousing young lunatic Nero, who, doubtless, was 
wont to make merry with its " convenient poison," 
upon one occasion, it is recorded by Pliny, to the 
presumably amusing extinction of the entire guests 
of a banquet, together with the prefect of the guard 
and a small host of tribunes and centurions, the 
Amanita has claimed an army of victims. 

While giving no superficial token of its dangerous 



44 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

character to the casual observer, the Amanita, as a 
genus and a species, is nevertheless easily identified, 
if the mushroom collector will for the moment con- 
sider it from the do^amca/ . rather than 
d^^'f^d ^^^ sensuous or gustatorial standpoint. 
botanicaliy The deadly Amanita need no longer 

impose upon the fastidious feaster in 
the guise of the dainty " legume " of his menu, or as 
a contaminating, fatal ingredient in the otherwise 
wholesome ragout. 

In Plate 3 I have presented the reprobate Amanita 
vermis in its protean progressive proportions from in- 
fancy to maturity. This is especially 
Amanita desirable, in that the fungus is equally 
vernus dangerous as an infant, and also be- 
cause the development of its growth 
specially emphasizes botanicaliy the one important 
structural character by which the species or genus 
may be easily distinguished. Let us, then, consider 
the specimen as a type of the tribe Agaricus (gilled 
mushroom, see p. 79), genus Amanita. 

Year after year we are sure of finding this species, 
or others of the genus, especially in the spring and 
summer, its favorite haunt being the woods. Its 
spores, like other mushrooms, are shed upon the 
ground from thfe white gills beneath, as described in 
our chapter on " Spore-prints," or wafted to the ends 
of the earth on the breeze, and eventually, upon hav- 
ing found a suitable habitat, vegetate in the form of 
webby, white, mould-like growth  mycelium  which 
threads through the dead leaves, the earth, or decaying 
wood. This running growth is botanicaliy considered 



< 
n 



> 
2; 

O 



to 

< 

M 
O 
M 
H 

> 

O 



c 

o 
o 
s 




THE DEADLY A^IANITA 47 

as the true fungus, the final mushroom being the 
fruit, whose function is the dissemination of the 
spores. After a rain, or when the conditions are 
otherwise suitable, a certain point among this webby 
tangle beneath the ground becomes 

Vegetation suddenly quickened into astonishing 
of an Agaric cell-making energy, and a small round- 
ed nodule begins to form, which con- 
tinues to develop with great rapidity (Plate 2). In a 
few hours more it has pushed its head above ground, 
and now appears like an egg, as at A, Plate 3. The 
successive stages in its development are clearly in- 
dicated in the drawings. Each represents an interval 
of an hour or two, or more, the most suggestive and 
important feature being the outer envelope, or volva, 
which encloses the actual mushroom  at first com- 
pletely, then in a ruptured condition, until in the ma- 
ture growth the only vestige of it which appears 
above ground are the few shreds generally, though 
not always, to be seen on the top of the cap. The 
most important character of this deadly Amanita is, 
therefore, apparently with almost artful 

The danger malice prepense, often concealed from 

signal our view in the mature specimen, the 

only remnant of the original outer sack 

being the cup or socket about the base of the stem, 

which is generally hidden under ground, and usually 

there remains after we pluck the specimen. 

This " poison-cup " may be taken as the cautionary 
symbol of thS^'genus Amanita, common to all the spe- 
cies. Any mushroom or toadstool, therefore, whose 
stem is thus set in a socket, or which has any suggestion 



48 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of such a socket, should be labelled ''poison "; for, though 

some of the species having this cup are edible, from 

the popular point of view, it is wiser and certainly 

safer to condemn the entire group. 

The But the cup must be sought for. We 

poison=cup shall thus at least avoid the possible 
danger of a fatal termination to our 
amateur experiments in gustatory mycology; for, 
while various other mushrooms might, and do, in- 
duce even serious illness through digestive disturb- 
ance, and secondary, possibly fatal, complications, 
the Amanita group are now conceded to be the only 
fungi which contain a positive, active poisonous prin- 
ciple whose certain logical consequence is death. 

Another structural feature of the Amanita is shown 

in the illustration, but has been omitted from the 

above consideration to avoid confusion. 

The "veil" This is the "veil " which, in the young 

or shroud mushroom, originally connected the 

edge of the cap, or pileus, with the 

stem, and whose gradual rupture necessarily follows 

the expansion of the cap, until a mere frill or ring 

is left about the stem at the original point of contact. 

But this feature is a frequent character in many 
edible mushrooms, as witness the several examples in 
the edible species of our plates, and therefore of no 
dangerous significance per se, being merely a mem- 
brane which protects the growing gills. 

Nor are the other features, the remnants of the 
volva on the summit of the cap, to be considered of 
primary importance from the popular point of view, 
for the reason firstly, that these fragments, while con- 



a 
< 

o 

d 
H 



> 

SI 

t-H 

> 

<: 
w 




THE DEADLY AMANITA SI 

spicuous and constant in Amanita muscarius (Plate 
4), are not thus permanent in several other species 
of Amanitae, notably the white -satin -capped Ama- 

nita vernus, Amanita phalloides, and 

Scales and Amanita Ccssarea, in which the frag- 

scurfy spots ments are deciduous ; and, secondly,, 

because the same general effect of 
these warty scales is so clearly imitated in other 
mushrooms which are distinctly edible, as in exam- 
ples Plate 10 and Plate 16. It is to the volva or 
cup, then, that we must devote our special attention 
as the only safe and constant character. And this 
leads me to the prominent and necessary considera- 
tion of another common species of Amanita, men- 
tioned above, in which even this cup is more or less 
obscure. 

THE POISONOUS FLY- MUSHROOM 
Agariciis (Amanita) muscarius 

This, one of the most strikingly beautiful of our 
toadstools, is figured in Plate 4. Its brilliant cap of 
yellow, orange, or even scarlet, studded with white 
or grayish raised spots, can hardly be 
A deceptive unfamiliar to even the least observant 
Amanita country walker. Its favorite habitat is 
the woods, and, in the writer's experi- 
ence especially, beneath hemlocks and poplars, where 
he has seen this species year after year in whole 
companies, and in all stages shown in the plate at 
the same time, from the globular young specimen 
almost covered with its white warts just lifting its 
head above the brown carpet to the fully expanded 



52 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

individual, in which the spots have assumed a 
shrunken and brovi^nish tint. 

The consideration of this species is of the utmost 
importance, as its beauty is but an alluring mask, 
which has enticed many to their destruction ; among 
the more recent of its conspicuous victims having 
been the Czar Alexis of Russia. For this is another 
cosmopolitan type of mushroom, common alike in 
America, Great Britain, Europe, and Asia, in all of 
which countries it is notorious for its poisonous re- 
sources. It is commonly known as the " Fly-agaric," 

its substance macerated in milk having 
Used as a been employed for centuries as an ef- 
fly- poison fectual fly-poison. After the reader's 

introduction to the botanical character 
of the Amanita, he would, presumably, be somewhat 
suspicious of the present species. The suggestive 
white or dingy fragments upon its cap, it is true, 
would alone arouse his suspicions, but in the exami- 
nation of the stem for the telltale volva or cup its 
verification might be somewhat in doubt. It is for 
this reason that the species is emphasized in these 

pages, as the Amanita muscarius, judg- 

its ing from the great dissimilarity of its 

obscure cup numerous portraits from all countries, 

would seem to be remarkably protean, 
especially with reference to its stalk. The majority 
of the portraits of this reprobate presents the volva 
as distinct and as clean cut as in the A. vernus just 
described, and the stalk above as equally smooth, 
features which are usually at variance with the as- 
sociated botanical description of the species, which 



^maiiitciD mudcazlac> 



TLATE IV 

FLY MUSHROOM 

Agaricus (Amanita) musearius 

Pileus: Diameter three to six inches, quite flat at maturity; 

color brilliant yellow, orange, or scarlet, becoming pale 

with age, dotted with adhesive white, at length pale 

brownish warts, the remnants of the volva. 
Gills: Pure white, very symmetrical, various in length, the 

shorter ones terminating under the cap with an almost 

vertical abruptness. 
Spores : Pure white. A spore-print of this species is shown 

in Plate 37. 
Stem : White, yellowish with age, becoming shaggy, at length 

scaly, the scales below appearing to merge into the form 

of an obscure cup. 
Volva : Often obscure, indicated by a mere ragged line of 

loose outward curved shaggy scales around a bulbous 

base. 
Flesh: White. 
Habitat: Woods and their borders, especially favoring pine 

and hemlock. 
Season : Summer and autumn. 



> 

> 

H 
> 

C 

n 
> 

> 

o 

en 
O 
z 

o 

c 




:^--Y-'=i- 



5 

n 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 57 

often characterizes the volva as " incomplete " or " ob- 
scure," and the stem as " rough and scaly." If the 
portraits in these works are correct, the Amanita 
qualities of the species are clearly displayed, but if 
their accompanying descriptions are to be credited, 
and such seem to be in perfect accord with the spec- 
imens which I have always found, the A. muscarius 
would seem in need of a more authentic historian. 

The example figured in the plate presents the 
stem and volva as they have always appeared in 
specimens obtained by the writer. In the young 
individuals the stem is waxy-white, becoming later 
a dull, pale ochre hue, the lower half being shaggy 
and torn, and beset with loose projecting woolly 
points which resolve themselves below into scales 
with loose tips curved outward, and so distantly dis- 
posed upon the bulbous base as to leave no marked 
definition of the continuous rim or opening of a cup. 
But the cup is there, and in a section of the bud state 
of the mushroom could have been seen, even as in the 
white warts upon the surface of the younger speci- 
mens we note the evidences of the upper portion of 
the same white volva. In many other 
Volva scales species of Amanita, notably A. vernus, 
permanent as already mentioned, these volva frag- 
ments generally wither and are shed 
from the cap. They are thus not to be counted on 
as a permanent token. But in the fly -mushroom 
they form a distinct character, as they adhere firmly 
to the smooth skin of the pileus, and in drying, instead 
of shrivelling and curling and falling off, simply 
shrink, turn brownish, and in the maturely expanded 



58 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



mushroom appear like scattered drops of mud which 
have dried upon the pileus. Another peculiar struct- 
ural feature of this mushroom is shown in the sec- 
tional drawing herewith given. The shorter gills, 
instead of rounding off as they approach the pileus 




SECTION OF FLY- AMANITA 

(see a), terminate abruptly almost at right angles to 
their edge. The contrast from the usual form will 
be more apparent by comparison with the section of 
the parasol - mushroom on page 114. 

Few species of mushrooms have such an inter- 
esting history as this. Its deadly properties were 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 



59 



known to the ancients. From the earHest times its 
deeds of notoriety are on record. 

This is quite possibly the species alluded to by 
Pliny as "very conveniently adapted for poisoning," 
and is not improbably the mushroom 
Historical referred to by this historian in the fol- 
Amanita lowing quotation from his famous Nat- 
ural His toiy. " Mushrooms are a dainty 
food, but deservedly held in disesteem since the no- 
torious crime committed by Agrippina, who through 
their agency poisoned her husband, the Emperor 
Claudius; and at the same moment, in the person 
of her son Nero, inflicted another poisonous curse 
upon the whole world, herself in particular." 

Notwithstanding its fatal character, this mushroom, 
it is said, is habitually eaten by certain peoples, to 
whom the poison simply acts as an intoxicant. In- 
deed, it is customarily thus employed as a narcotic 
and an exhilarant in Kamchatka and Asiatic Russia 
generally, where the Amanita drunkard 
Amanita supplants the opium fiend and alcohol 
dipsomaniacs dipsomaniac of other countries. Its 
narcotizing qualities are commemo- 
rated by Cooke in his Seven Sisters of Sleep, wherein 
may be found a full description of the toxic employ- 
ment of the fungus. 

The writer has heard it claimed that this species 
of Amanita has been eaten with impunity by certain 
individuals ; but the information has usually come 
from sources which warrant the belief that another 
harmless species has been confounded with it. The 
warning of my Frontispiece may safely be extended 



6o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

to the fly-amanita. Its beautiful gossamer veil may 
aptly symbolize a shroud. 

By fixing these simple structural features of the 
Amanita in mind, and emphasizing them by a study 
of our Frontispiece, we may now consider ourselves 
armed against our greatest foe, and 
Forewarned ^g^y sfjith some assurance make our 
forearmed limited selection among this lavish lard- 
er of wild provender continually going 
to waste by the ton in our woods and pastures and 
lawns. For it is now a fact generally believed by 
fungologists, and being gradually demonstrated, that 
the edible species, far from being the exception, as 
formerly regarded, are the rule; that a great majority 
of our common wild fungi are at least harm.less, if 
not positively wholesome and nutritious as food. 

THE POISONOUS ALKALOID 

The toxic and deadly effects of certain mushroom 
poisons, as already described, have been known since 
ancient times; and the prolonged intoxicating de- 
bauches to-day prevalent among the Amanita dipso- 
maniacs of Northern Russia and Kamchatka, con- 
sequent upon the allurements of the decoction of the 
fly-agaric, are well-known matters of history. 

The true chemical character of this poison, however, 
was not discovered until 1868, when it was successfully 
isolated by chemical analyses of Drs. Vigier, Schmiede- 
berg, Currie, and Koppe, and ascertained to be an 
alkaloid principle, to which was given originally the 
name of bulbosine, since variously known as musca- 
rine, and finally and most appropriately amanitine. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 6 1 

The poison thus identified, it was reserved to an 

American authority on edible fungi, Mr. Julius A. 

Palmer, of Boston, to discover the fact 

Mr. Palmer's of its confinement to but one fungus 

discovery family  the Amanita. 

In the year 1879, in an article con- 
tributed by him to the Moniteur Scientifique, of 
Paris, he states : 

" Mushrooms are unfit for food by decay or other 
cause, producing simply a disagreement with the sys- 
tem by containing some bitter, acrid, or slimy element, 
or by the presence of a wonderful and dangerous alka- 
loid which is absorbed in the intestinal canal. This 
alkaloid, so far as known, is found only in the Ama- 
nita family T 

To Mr. Palmer, then, is due the chemical segrega- 
tion of the Amanita group as the only repository of 
this deadly toxic. 

It has not been discerned in other species of fungi, 

whose so-called " poisonous " effects are more often 

traceable to mere indigestibility, the 

Lesser selection of "over-ripe" specimens, or 

poisoning to idiosyncrasy, rather than to their 

distinctly poisonous properties. 
Many mushrooms of other families which do pos- 
sess ingredients chemically at war with the human 
system  as the Russula emetica and certain Lacta- 
rii, for instance at least give a fair warning, either 
by taste or odor, of their dark intentions. 

Owing to the numerous deaths every year conse- 
quent upon mushroom -eating, and nearly always 
directly traceable to the Amanita, the discovery of 



62 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

an antidote to this poison has been the quest of 
many noted chemists  several supposed antidotes 

having been experimented with upon 

Antidote dogs and other animals without desired 

for Amanita results. These included atropine, the 

deadly crystalline alkaloid from the 
Atropa belladonna. The earlier experiments upon 
animals with this drug in Paris, as described by Dr. 
Gautier in 1884, while encouraging, were not con- 
sidered conclusive, but were sufficient to warrant 
the suggestion that the treatment upon man might 
be effective. In a resume of the subject in the 
Philadelphia Medical and Surgical Reporter, De- 
cember, 1885, for the benefit of the medical prac- 
titioners who are so frequently called upon to attend 
cases of mushroom poisoning. Captain Charles Mcll- 
vaine recommended the administration of a dose of 
atropine of from 0.05 to 0.0002 milligramme, and it 

was later reserved for the same gentle- 
First autlientic man to witness the first authentic in- 
application stance of the application of this remedy 

in antagonism with the Amanita poison 
in the human system. The report of this experi- 
ence was afterwards published (see Bibliography, 
No. 6), embodying also a complete and authentic ac- 
count of the symptoms and treatment of the cases 
by the attending physician, Dr. J. E. Shadle, of 
Shenandoah, Pa., which account I feel is appropri- 
ately included here, being in full sympathy with the 
solicitous spirit of my pages. I therefore quote the 
statement of Dr. Shadle for the benefit of those in- 
terested. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 63 

Shenandoah, Pa., October 26, 1885. 
Mr. Chas. McIlvaine : 

My dear Sir, In compliance with your request, I take pleasure 
in submitting to your consideration the following report of five 
cases of toadstool-poisoning which recently came under my ob- 
servation and treatment : 

On Monday, August 31, at 10 a.m., I was hastily called to see 

a family, consisting of Mr. F., his wife, his mother-in-law, Mrs. R., 

and his brother-in-law, Thomas R., who, the 

Amanita messenger stated, were having " cramps in the 

poisoning bowels." 

symptoms Promptly responding to the call, I found them 

suffering from intense abdominal pains, nausea, 
vomiting, boneache, and feelings of distress in the prcBcordial 
region. 

Mr. F., twent)'-nine years of age, was a miner by occupation, 
and had led an intemperate life. Mrs. F., twenty-two years of 
age, was a brunette, possessing a delicate body, and bearing a 
decided neurotic tendency. Mrs. R., forty-five years of age, was a 
small nervo-bilious woman. Thomas R., thirteen years of age, was 
a youth well developed. 

While I was examining these patients, Mrs. B., forty years of 
age, a neighbor of the family, presented herself, manifesting in a 
milder degree the same symptoms. She was a tall, spare woman. 
Previous to their present attack of illness their general health was 
good ; in none could signs of disease be traced. 

Picture to your mind five persons suffering from cholera morbus 
in its most aggravated form, and you will be enabled to form a 
pretty correct idea of what I beheld in the Faris residence on 
Monday morning, August 31. 

That five individuals, four being members of one household, 
should be attacked simultaneously by a similar train of symptoms, 
naturally gave rise in my mind to a suspicion that something poi- 
sonous had been eaten. Upon close inquiry I obtained the fol- 
lowing history : 

On the afternoon of Sunday, August 30, Mr. F. and Thomas R. 
were walking through a wood not far distant from their home, 
and, in wandering from place to place, found clusters of very 



64 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

beautiful toadstools growing abundantly under trees, among which 
the chestnut predominated. 

Attracted by their appearance, and supposing them to be edi- 
ble, they gathered a large quantity, with the anticipation of hav- 
ing a delicious dish for their Sunday evening 

Amanita eal. 

poisoning Various other kinds were growing in the same 

symptoms locality, but this particular variety impressed 

them as being the most inviting. A correct 

specimen of the fungus they had collected having been sent 

you, I will leave its botanical description to your pen. 

At about nine o'clock, five hours after gathering them, Mrs. F. 
cooked three pints of the toadstools, stewing them in milk, and 
seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt. 

They had dinner at a very early hour on this day, and by the 
time they had supper all felt exceedingly hungry, in consequence 
of which they ate quite heartily. Mrs. F. and her brother vied 
with each other as to the quantity they could eat. In addition 
to this dish, bread and butter and coiifee were served. 

Soon after supper the family retired. None experienced the 
least discomfort until towards daybreak, when considerable dis- 
tress in the abdominal organs and cerebral disturbance manifested 
themselves. Prominent among the initial symptoms were foul 
breath, coated tongue, pain in the stomach, nausea, and a peculiar 
sickening sensation in the epigastrium. These symptoms gradual- 
ly increased in severity, and in twelve hours after the ingestion 
of the poison, when I made my first visit, the condition of the 
victims involved great danger. Intense vomiting was present in 
four, while in Mrs. R.'s case a violent retching seemed to persist. 

Gastro-intestinal irritation, followed by a relaxed condition of 
the bowels, showed itself in about thirty hours after the onset of 
the more active symptoms. With the appearance of this trouble 
an insufferable tenesmus developed, producing paroxysms of 
severe agony. This was particularly true in the case of Mrs. R., 
whose suffering was so great that it became a formidable symptom 
to combat. Upon the subsidence of the more severe symptoms, 
the patients fell into a state of extreme prostration, accompanied 
by stupor and cold extremities. In the mother, son, and daughter 
this was profoundly marked. They were completely indifferent 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 65 

to persons and things around them, as well as to their own suf- 
fering. 

As the symptoms increased in violence, Thos. R. advanced into 

a state of coma, and Mrs. F. into coma vigil, and remained so for 

about twelve hours prior to death. The face 

Amanita ^^^ ^ shrunken and wrinkled appearance, the 

poisoning eyes were sunken, the skin was dusky, and the 

symptoms surface of the body was dry and cold to the 

touch. The pulse, a number of hours before 

death, was imperceptible at the wrist, and the heart-sounds were 

scarcely perceived by auscultation. 

The pulse in all cases was notably affected, ranging from 120 
to 140 per minute. In character it was soft and compressible; 
intermittent at intervals. 

There was a distinct rise of temperature ; the thermometer in 
the axilla registered as much as 104 F. 

A mild form of delirium was an occasional event. In the case 
of Mrs. F. it formed an important element. 

Respecting the special senses, it is well to mention that sight 
was peculiarly affected. Notwithstanding the fact that the pupils 
responded kindly to the action of the light, an unpleasant sensa- 
tion of blindness frequently appeared, and continued for a few 
minutes. 

In spite of all that was done to counteract its ravages, the ef- 
fects of the poison were so extremely deadly that a fatal issue 
was the result in two cases. Thomas R. died in fifty-six and Mrs. 
F. in sixty-three hours after the ingestion of the toadstools. 

Treatment.  The treatment instituted was mainly symptomatic. 

Fearing that undigested particles of toadstools might still be 

lying in the gastro-intestinal tract, to Mrs. R., who had not freely 

vomited, an emetic was administered, and to 

Amanita the rest a mild purge. 

poisoning An intense thirst and a burning sensation 

treatment being present in the mouth, throat, and stomach, 
small pieces of cracked ice were freely used with 
a view to allaying it. 

For the gastro-intestinal irritation I prescribed with satisfactory 
results the following : 



66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

B; Bismuth subnit. , 3v ; 
Creosote, gtt. xv ; 
Mucil. acaciae, ffi ; 
Aq. menth. pip., q.s. ad fjiii. M. 
Sig.  Teaspoonful every one or two hours. 

7g grain of morph. sulph. was administered hypodermically to 
alleviate as much as possible the abdominal suffering. 

The impending exhaustion and the failing heart's action I en- 
deavored to combat with a free administration of alcoholic stimu- 
lants in combination with moderate doses of tincture of digitalis 
both by the mouth and under the skin. 

In order to invite the circulation of the blood to the ice-cold 
surface of the body, heated bricks and bottles filled with hot water 
were placed in bed around the patients. 

Analyzing each symptom as it arose, and carefully observing 
the effects of the poison on the system, I formed the opinion thai 
the toxic element contained in the noxious fun- 
gus eaten by these people was narcotic in its 
Diagnosis nature and spent its force on the nerve centres, 
especially selecting the one governing the func- 
tion of respiration and the action of the heart. 

Acting upon this conclusion, I began, in the early part of my 
treatment, subcutaneous injections of sulphate of atropine in fre- 
quently-repeated doses, ranging from ^i^ to -gig grain. The in- 
jections invariably were followed by a perceptible improvement in 
the patient ; the heart's action became stronger, the pulse returned 
at the wrist, and the respiration increased in depth and fulness. 

Through the agency of this remedy, supported by the other 
measures adopted, three (or sixty per cent.) of the patients re- 
covered. 

The lessons I draw from this experience are : 

1. The poisoning produced by this variety of toadstool is slow 
in manifesting its effects. 

2. That it destroys life by a process of asthenia. 

3. That in atropine we have an antidote, and it should be pushed 
heroically from the earliest inception of the action of the poison. 

I have the honor to remain 

Yours very respectfully, 

J. E. Shadle, M.D. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 6>J 

In reply to the queries, Was atropine administered 
in all the cases? and What was the total amount 
administered to each ? Dr. Shadle responded as fol- 
lows: 



Shenandoah, Pa., October 29, 1885. 



My dear Mr. McIlvaine : 



Yours of the 27th I have received. The two questions you ask 
me therein I see are very important, and they should be answered 
as fully as possible. I am sorry I overlooked the matter in my 
report. 

Before attempting an answer, it is well for me to note right 

here that Mrs. B., the neighbor, did not eat very much of the 

toadstool stew ; Mrs. R. and Mr. F. each ate 

about the same quantity  from one and one- 
Amanitine , , . , ,. , -^ , . . 

and atropine * *"' P^^tefuls. This is according to 

Faris's statement. But the two fatal cases  
Thomas R. and Mrs. F.  tried to see which 
could eat the most, and consequently got their full share of the 
poison. The cat mentioned before had about a tablespoonful of 
the broth, and they tell me she was very sick. Whether or not 
she died is not known. 

Now as to the treatment by atropine, I think I can approximate 
a pretty correct statement in reply to your queries. Not knowing 
that atropine was considered an antidote, I began its employment 
in the treatment of these cases from the physiological knowledge 
I had of the drug relative to its action in other diseases in which 
there was heart-failure and embarrassed respiration. 

When I saw the U. S. Dispensatory suggested it, I of course felt 
it my duty to use it, as I could find nowhere anything else men- 
tioned as an antidote. I feel convinced that it was by means of 
the atropine that I saved three of the five patients. Why do I 
think so ? Because whenever I would administer the remedy the 
patient rallied, the pulse returned at the wrist, the heart-sounds 
became stronger, and the respiration increased in strength and 
fulness. What more conclusive evidence do I want than this to 
show as to how the agent was acting? 

When I first saw the patients  twelve hours after the ingestion 

5 



68 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of the poison  their symptoms were alike, one suffering as much 

as the other (August 31). I began the use of the all<aloid in 

the evening of the same day, when 1 saw. the 

Administration powers of life giving way, the heart failing, and 

of antidote the respiration becoming shallow. It was used 

in all the cases as follows : 

Mrs. B., yfo. W. ^> or j|^, or ^ gr. 

Mr. F., -j-y, -gV, ^tr, dV. or tJt gr- 

Mrs. R., xio. -gV. -5*0. sh, or tJt gr- 

Thos. R., ^^, -gV, ^0. ^. Vo> or y|o, or ^ gr. 

Mrs. R, y^T. uV. -sV> A- ^. or y|^, or ^ gr. 

In accordance with the above formulee the drug was admin- 
istered. I visited the patients at intervals of six or eight hours, 
and at each visitation they received an injection in the doses 
above mentioned. From this we see that in all Mrs. B. received 
gr. -^ of atropine ; Mr. F. received gr. ^^ of atropine ; Mrs. R. 
received gr. y^^j of atropine ; Thos R. (fatal) received gr. ^ of 
atropine ; Mrs. F. (fatal) received gr. ^ of atropine. 

The alkaloid failing to save the two that died I think can be 
attributed to one of two causes, or probably both : 

1. That the use of atropine was begun too late and not used 
heroically enough. 

2. That so much of the poison was taken up by the system in 
these cases that it became too virulent to counteract. 

From the history of the cases I know they ate by far the largest 
quantity. My opinion leans towards the first probable cause I 
have mentioned. 

Another fact worth stating here is that the pupils never became 
affected by the administration of these doses. 

Hoping this will make the matter satisfactory, I remain 

Yours truly, J. E. Shadle. 

The interval between the ingestion and the syn^p- 
toms is, therefore, a most important aid in the diag- 
nosis of a case of mushroom poisoning; and in the 
event of an Amanita, heretofore absolutely fatal, it is 
presumably under the control of medical science, now 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 69 

that the deadly toxic principle has at last found its 
enemy in the neutralizing properties of the equally 
deadly atropine. 

It would seem, moreover, from the severe personal 
experience of Mr. Julius A. Palmer, that the poison 
of the Amanita is quite capable of mischief without 
being taken into the digestive organs. So volatile is 
this dangerous alkaloid that it may produce violent 
effects upon the system either through its odor alone, 
or by simple contact with the skin and consequent 
absorption. 

Mr. Palmer, in his before-mentioned article in the 
Moniteur Scientifique, Paris, relates the following ex- 
periences : 

" Once while perspiring from a long walk I under- 
took to bring in a large bunch of the Amanita for 
an artist. Seated in a close car, hold- 
Poisons jj^ them in my warm hand, although 

by contact 1 , r ? 1 

and odor protected by a paper wrapper, a fearful 

nausea overcame me. The toadstool 
was not at first suspected, yet I had all the symptoms 
of a sea-sick person, and was only relieved by a 
wide distance between myself and the exciting cause. 
" While writing this article," he continues, " a friend 
sent me two very elegant specimens of the Amanita 
tribe. They were in a confined box. On opening 
it I smelled of them a few times, and allowed the 
box to lie near my desk while I wrote to a medical 
gentleman anxious to procure such for chemical ex- 
periment. Having sent them away the matter was 
dismissed from my mind for three hours after, when, 
by an attack of vomiting and oppression at the stom- 



7 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ach, they were enforced upon my attention. The 
whites of my eyes became livid, and even until noon 
the day following the leaden color of my face was 
noticed by more than one person." 

The moral of this story is that the less the reader 

has to do with Amanita fungi the better. Let them 

have a wide berth, or at most an an- 

A wide berth nihilating kick, lest by their alluring 

to Amanita beauty they tempt the next unwary 
traveller who shall encounter them. 

But you desire a specimen " to show a friend," or 
" to make a photograph of, or a sketch," perhaps. 
In such case it were well to consider further the ex- 
periences of Mr. Palmer, which will show the wisdom 
of keeping your gustatorial and artistic mycology 
in separate expeditions, or at least of providing your 
poison-exhaling Amanita specimen with a cage by it- 
self. In the same article he continues : 

" Mushrooms make the same use of the atmosphere 
as men, even their exhalations are accordingly viti- 
ated with their properties. Those not 

Inooliatwr 'i^^dly thus attack humanity namely, 

by contact by absorption of their essential elements 

by the whole system. They also hi- 

oculate each other with or without contact, so that if 

edible and noxious toadstools are gathered together the 

former will absorb the properties of the latter!^ 

In proof of this assertion he instances a personal 
experience as follows : " About four years ago a num- 
ber of poisonous mushrooms (not Amanitae, but of a 
totally different family) were sent me with edible fun- 
gus. The two varieties had lain twelve hours in the 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 7 1 

same box. The noxious ones were rejected, and the 
esculent washed and eaten. In a moment my appe- 
tite was gone ; violent perspiration, vertigo, and trem- 
bling were the next symptoms ; then chills, nausea, 
purging, and tenesmus, all within thirty minutes. Now 
the substance could not have reached the intestines. 
The virus absorbed from the noxious fungus perme- 
ated the whole system through eating the harmless 
ones ; unmixed with other food it acted upon the 
muscles through an empty stomach ; once spent, the 
ailment passed off," etc. 

From these and other experiences he draws the 

following conclusions: The poisonous principle of a 

fungus being absorbed by a harmless 

Poison element, if the latter be eaten the ven- 
extracted 

by vinegar om acts more quickly. In reinforce- 
ment of this he states that " if the 
Amanita be cut in sections and laid in vinegar the 
fungus may be eaten without danger to life ; but on 
a very small dose of the vinegar, death will follow 
more speedily than if the whole toadstool be eaten." 
Further interesting matter upon this topic is con- 
tained in the article from which I quote, and to 
which the reader is referred in his volume included 
in my bibliographical list. The work also contains 
numerous other collected articles of Mr. Palmer's 
upon this subject of fungi, to which he has devoted 
so much attention, and with which his name has be- 
come so popularly identified in America. 

The allusion to vinegar as an absorbent of the poi- 
son suggests the prevalent habitual use of salt as a 
safeguard by many in the employment of the fungus 



72 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as food, as both of these ingredients play a prominent 
part in a fungus cuisine. It is averred by some writ- 
ers that one of the most noxious of 
Effect of salt Amanitee  the Fly-agaric  is eaten in 
and heat some countries, notably Russia, without 
unpleasant results, while it is confident- 
ly asserted to be harmless after, as it were, having 
its venom drawn by a soaking in brine previous to 
cooking. Boiling  both in the possible neutralizing 
of the poison through heat, and in the withdrawal of 
the same in the solution  would also be contributive 
to safety in such cases, provided the tainted liquid 
were not retained as in a stew or soup. 

On this topic it is interesting to note the epicure- 
an perversity of a certain French author, who, in the 
face of the already overwhelming abun- 
Epicurean dance of nature's esculent species of 
perversity fungi, must needs include all the deadly 
Amanitse as well, though he gives a rec- 
ipe by which the poison is extracted by the copious 
aid of salt, vinegar, boiling water, and drawing. This 
process, on general principles, might invite humorous 
speculation as to the appetizing qualities of the resid- 
ual morsel thus acquired, or as to the advisability of 
deliberately selecting a poisonous substance for the 
desideratum of the washed-out, corned, spiced, non- 
descript remnant which survives the process of ex- 
traction, not only of its noxious properties, but of 
even what nutriment it might possibly contain. 

Fancy a beefsteak similarly " prepared," all its nour- 
ishing ingredients extracted and thrown away; its ex- 
hausted remnant of .muscular fibre now the mere ab- 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 73 

sorbent vehicle for vinegar, salt, lemon-juice, butter, 
nutmeg, garlic, spice, cloves, and other seeming indis- 

pensables to the preparation of the 
Mushrooms Champignon a la mode ! 
a la mode The verdict of the extreme fungus 

epicure upon the delectable flavor of 
this or that mushroom must indeed be taken cum 
grano salts, the customary culinary treatment, or 
maltreatment, of these delicately flavored fruits hav- 
ing for its apparent object the elimination as far 
as possible of any suggestion of the true flavor of 
the fungus. I fancy that even the caustic, rebellious 
root of the Indian-turnip or the skunk-cabbage thus 
tamed and subdued in a smothering emollient of 
spiced gravy or ragout might negatively serve a pur- 
pose as more or less indigestible pabulum. 

While, as already mentioned, a few of this genus 
Amanita are edible, it is well in concluding our 

chapter to emphasize the caution of 
Enough with= an earlier page as to the absolute ex- 
out Amanita clusion of the entire genus from the 

bill of fare of the amateur mycophagist. 
There is an abundance of wholesome, delicious fungi 
at our doors without them. 

Many species of Amanita are to be found more or 
less frequently in company with the esculent varieties 
recommended in the chapters following. Among 
these the two extremes of variation from the typical 
form are seen in the A. muscarius in its permanent 
retention of the volva scales and the obscurity of its 
cup, and in the A. pkalloides, herewith pictured about 
half natural size, with the frequent entire absence of 



74 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



these remnant scales, which wither and fall off, leav- 
ing the yellowish or greenish cap perfectly smooth. 

It is to the volva or cup, then, that we must turn 
for the one fixed permanent character by which this 
genus is to be identified. 




AMANITA PHALLOIDES 





TR introductory description of the Ama- 
nita presents the most perfect botan- 
ical type of a large division of the 
W"^^ fungus tribe, the Agaricacece, or gill- 
bearing mushrooms, one of the two 
great orders of fungi which include the large major- 
ity of edible species. 

A brief consideration of the general classification 
of fungi will not be out of place at the head of this 
chapter. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FUNGI 

A fungus is a cellular cryptogamous (flowerless) 
plant, nourished through its spawn or mycelium in 
place of roots, living in air, and propagated by spores. 

Fungi  mycetes  are naturally subdivided into two 
great divisions : 

1. Sporifera  those in which the spores or repro- 
ductive bodies are jiaked or soon exposed, as shown 
in illustration on page 79. 

2. Sporidiifera  in which the spores are envel- 
oped in sacs or asci. These resemble in shape the 
cystidium of illustration on page 79. 



78 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



The first of these divisions  the Sporifera, or 
naked -spored fungi  is again subdivided into four 
families, as follows : 

1. Hymenomycetes. Hymeniuin, or spore-bearing 
surface, exposed and conspicuous, as seen in the 
common mushroom and all Agarics and Polyporei. 

2. Gasteromycetes {gaster, a belly). Hymenium, or 
spore- bearing surface, enclosed in a more or less 
spherical case, called the peridium, which ruptures 
and expels the spores at maturity in the form of dust, 
as in the puff-balls. 

3. Coniomycetes, from the Greek ko}v'i<;, meaning 
dust, the entire fungus having a dust-like appearance. 
Mildew forms a good example of this family. 

4. Hyphomycetes, from the Greek u<^a, meaning a 
thread. Thread-like fungi, the filaments being more 
conspicuous than the spore masses, of which group 
blue-mould affords an illustration. 

The Hymenomycetes (i) is again subdivided into 




six orders, the discrimination being based on the 
diverse character of the spore surface. The first of 
these orders is the Agaricini, or gill- bearing fungi, 
to which our present chapter will be confined. 



AGARICS 



79 



Spores 

A 



Cystidium 



-Sporophore 



AGARICINI 

In this order the hymenium, or spore -bearing sur- 
face, is inferior, i.e., on the under side of the pileus, 
and is spread over lamellse or gills, which radiate 
from the stem of the fungus, and each of which may 
be separated into two filmy flat divisions. 

On the opposite page is shown an Agaric in ver- 
tical section, disclosing a full side view of the gills. 
A highly magni- 
fied view of this 
gill -surface is in- 
dicated herewith, 
duly indexed, the 
sporophore being 
shown in the act of 
shedding its spores 
from their points 
of attachment to 
the four stigmata 
at the summit. These fruitful four-pointed sporo- 
phores or basidia are intermingled with the cystidia 
and sterile cells, the whole mass forming the surface 
of the hymenium. The dissemination of the Agaric 
is further considered in a later chapter on " Spore- 
prints." 

The most perfect botanical type of the Agarics 
is the Amanita, already sufficiently dwelt upon. 

We will now proceed to the consideration of other 
examples in which the symbol of the fatal cup is 
happily absent, and whose identities as esculent spe- 
cies are clearly denoted by individual characteristics. 




SPORE-SURFACE MAGNIFIED 



EDIBLE AGARICS 



MEADOW MUSHROOM 
Agaricus campestris 

Perhaps the one species which enjoys the widest 
range of popular confidence as the " mushroom " in 
the lay mind, as distinguished from " toadstool," is the 
Agaricus campestris, known as the " meadow mush- 
room " (Plate 5). It is the species commonly exposed 
in our markets. Its cultivation is an 
"The" important industry, but it often yields 

mushroom an enormous spontaneous harvest in 
its native haunts. The plate shows 
a cluster of the mushrooms in their various stages 
of development, the detached specimen below rep- 
resenting the semi -opened condition in which the 
fungus is usually gathered for market. It will be ob- 
served that the base of the stem is entirely free from 
any suggestion of a volva or cup. As its popular 
name implies, this species in its wild state is one of 
the voluntary tributes of our late summer and autumn 
meadows and pastures, though it may occasionally 
frequent lawns, shrubberies, and barn-yards. In size 
it varies from two to three and a half 

Description inches across the pileus or cap, which is 

Campestris either smooth or slightly rough, scaly, 
or scurfy, and creamy white or tawny in 
color, according to age or variety. The most im- 
portant distinguishing feature of this species is the 
color of the gills. If we break away the " veil " in the 



i^gaztcud campedtzid 



TLATE V 

"THE MUSHROOM" 

Agaricus eampestris 

Pileus : At first globular, its edge connected to stem by the 
veil ; then round convex, at length becoming possibly 
almost flat. Surface dry, downy, or even quite scaly, 
varying in color from creamy white to light brown. 
Diameter at full expansion, about three inches. 

Gills : Unequal in length ; pink when first revealed, becoming 
brownish, brown, purplish, and finally almost black. 

Stem: Solid; of the color of the cap; paler and white in 
section, retaining the remnant of the veil in a permanent 
ragged ring. 

Spores: Brown. 

Taste : Sweet and inviting, and odor agreeable. 

Habitat: Pastures, lawns, and open rich soil generally. 

Season : Late summer and early autumn, occasionally in 
spring. 



PLATE V 




Agaricus Campestris. 



AGARICS 85 

unopened specimen, we find them to be of a pallid 
flesh tint. In the more advanced state they become 
decidedly pinkish, with age and expansion gradually 
deepening to purplish, purple-brown, and finally brown- 
ish black. The gills are of unequal lengths, as shown 
in the section. The stem is creamy white and of solid 
substance, and always shows the remains of the veil 
in a persistent frill or ring just beneath the cap. 

Doubtless a sufficient and satisfactory reason for 

the universal dignity which this species has acquired 

as " the mushroom " may be found in 

Cultivation the fact that it is the only species 
ofmustirooms prominently under cultivation, and al- 
most the only one which is sure to 
respond to the artificial cultivation of its spawn in 
the so-called "mushroom bed." The "spawn" of 
the Campestris has thus become a mercantile com- 
modity, duly advertised in the seedsmen's catalogues. 

This so-called spawn is in truth nothing but the 

mycelium, or subterranean vine of the mushroom (see 

Plate 2), taken from the beds in which 

Mushroom the mushrooms have been grown, or 
"spawn" bed in which the mycelium has been culti- 
vated. The cultivator simply prepares 
a " bed " to receive it  duplicating as far as possible 
the soil conditions from which it was taken, whether 
from foreign cultivation or his old manure-bed or 
stable-yard  a rich, warm compost of loam and horse- 
manure, this latter ingredient being a most important 
consideration, as the fungus in its several varieties, 
notably the larger, Agaricus arvensis, known as the 
"horse-mushroom," has followed the track of the horse 

6 



86 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

around the world. These natural conditions having 
been even approximately fulfilled, will, within two 
months, generally reward the cultivator with a crop of 
mushrooms, which, with the continued ramifications of 
the mycelium permeating the muck as the yeast fun- 
gus permeates the home-made loaf, will insure a con- 
tinual succession of crops for weeks or months, to be 
renewed spontaneously, perhaps, the following season. 

The present volume, having specific reference to 
fungi in their wild state, and the celebration of their 
esculent virtues, being thus essentially in antithesis 
to artificial culture, further consideration of the cul- 
tivation of the mushroom is omitted. The reader is 
referred to the volumes in my bibliographical list, 
Nos. 8 and 22, in which full instructions will be found. 

The Campestris is conspicuous among mushrooms 

in its ready accommodation to artificial, imitation of 

its native environment. There, is no 

Species other mushroom which is thus coiifi- 
opposed to 

cultivation dently to be relied on. Other species  
not a dozen, however, out of the thou- 
sands  will occasionally reward the cultivator, who 
has devoted the most scrupulous care to the humor- 
ing of their fastidious conditions of growth. Thus 
the Agaricus candicans of the Italian markets is said 
to have been successfully raised from chips of the 
white poplar which have been properly covered with 
manure. Other species, it is claimed. 
Certain can be humored from a block of the 
exceptions cob-nut free after singeing its surface 
over burned straw, while Dr. Thore 
claims that both Boletus edulis, and Agaricus pro- 



AGARICS 87 

cerus ape " constantly raised by the inhabitants of his 
district from a watery infusion of said plants poured 
upon the ground." The truth of these statements 
has been denied by authorities, and individual exper- 
iment will only tend to discredit their trustworthiness. 
In general the mushroom or toadstool absolutely re- 
fuses to be " coaxed or cajoled." The mycelium of all 
is practically identical; but species such as the Co- 
prinus, for instance, which are perhaps found growing 
naturally in company with the Campestris, and whose 
spawn is similarly transplanted to the artificial en- 
vironment, will show no sign of reappearance, while 
its fellow may literally crowd the bed. 

The " fairy-ring " mushroom grows year after year 
upon our lawn, because its mycelium is continually 
present, simply threading its way outwardly, inch by 
inch, in the congenial surrounding soil. Instances 
are reported of the occasional successful establishment 
of this mushroom in new quarters by the transfer of a 
clod of earth threaded with mycelium taken from the 
"fairy-ring" to another lawn, in which the immediate 
soil conditions happened to be harmonious, and this 
method of actual transference of the spawn might oc- 
casionally be effectual. But the writer, in his limited 
number of experiments, has never yet been able to 

propagate a mushroom by a transfer of 
Not to be the spores to soil where the conditions 
humored would appear to be exactly suitable. 

On a certain lawn, for instance, every 
year I obtain a number of the Coprinus comatus (Plate 
16). Upon another lawn, apparently exactly similar 
as to soil conditions, I transfer the melting mushroom 



88 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

where it sheds its inky spore-solution upon the earth, 
and yet, after years of waiting, there is no response. 
Even an absolute transfer of the webby spawn from 
the original haunt has proven equally without result. 
Thus while the habitual fungus-hunter comes to rec- 
ognize a certain logical association between a given 
character of natural haunt and some certain species 
of fungi  a prophetic suspicion often immediately 
fulfilled  as when he inwardly remarks, as he comes 
upon an open, clear spot in the woods, " This is an ideal 
haunt for the green Russula," and instantly stumbles 
upon his specimen ; yet he may take the pallid spawn, 
with a small clod of earth from its roots, and place it 
in the mould not ten feet distant, apparently in iden- 
tically auspicious conditions, and it absolutely refuses 
to be humored. He may mark the spot, and look 
in vain in its precincts for a decade for his Russula, 
though the ground in the vicinity be dotted with them. 

Year after year I have thrown my refuse specimens 
of hundreds of species of fungi out of my studio win- 
dow, over the piazza rail or upon my 
Dormant lawn, yet never with the slightest sign 
spores that one of the millions of spores in the 
species thus sown has vegetated. 

Considering the ready accommodation of the Cam- 
pestris, the contrast of the fastidiousness in other spe- 
cies is a notable phenomenon. As a rule, " they will 
not colonize; they will not emigrate; they will not 
be cheated out of their natural possessions : they re- 
fuse to be educated, and stand themselves upon their 
single leg, as the most independent and contrary 
growth with which man has to deal." 



> 
2 

H 

o 

!2! 



 
n 

C! 
tn 

n 
> 

K 

en 

H 
(0 




AGARICS 



91 



The Campestris is probably the most protean of all 

mushrooms, and mycologists are even yet at odds as 

to the proper botanical disposition of 

^of'the* many of the contrasting varieties which 

Campestris it assumes. A few of these are indicat- 
ed in Plate 6. Indeed, some of these, 
as in the Agaricus arvensis, following, have until quite 
recently figured as distinct species. In its extreme 
form it might well so do, but when science is con- 
fronted with an intermediate specimen bearing equal 
affinities to the Campestris and Arvensis  and per- 
haps reinforced by other individuals which actually 
merge completely into the Campestris  the discrimi- 
nation of the Arvensis as a distinct species becomes 
impossible, and would hardly seem warrantable. 

Berkeley gives the following selection of the more 
distinct varieties, not including the Arvensis with its 
variations, and which he considers a distinct species: 

1. The so-called "garden mushroom," with its brownish, hairy, 
scaly cap. 

2. A. pratensis, in which the pileus is more or less covered with 
reddish scales, and the flesh as well as gills a pinkish tinge. 

3. A. villaticus, large size and very scaly. 

4. A. silvkola, pileus smooth and shining, stem elongated and 
conspicuously swollen at base; often found in woods. 

5. A. vaporarius, brown pilose coat which covers the stem as 
well as the cap, and leaves streaky fragments on the stalk as it 
elongates. 

6. He also figures another marked form, with the cap of ^ red- 
dish color, completely covered with a pilose coat ; the gills being 
perfectly white in young specimens, and the flesh turning bright 
red when bruised. 

Any one of the above, he admits, are as much entitled to classi- 
fication as " distinct species " as the Arvensis. 



92 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The application of the title "horse -mushroom" to 
this last-mentioned species was generally supposed to 
be referable to the same popular tra- 
The "horse" ditions of which we see the analogies 
mushroom in the names horse -weed, horse -nettle, 
horse -balm, horseradish among the 
herbs  the prefix " horse " referring to the element of 
coarseness or rank growth. But in the instance of 
the mushroom it bears a deeper significance, as this 
ample cosmopolitan variety of the Campestris, which 
follows the horse all over the world, from stable and 
through lane to pasture, and which can only be 
grown in the manure of this animal, is now generally 
believed to be a secondary, exaggerated form conse- 
quent upon the following conditions : 

The spores of the Campestris are shed in myriads 
in the pastures. The grazing horse no doubt swal- 
lows thousands of them, which, upon their return to 
the soil under especially favorable conditions for 
growth, vegetate into mycelium, and at length fructi- 
fy in the full -formed mushroom. The dense white 
spawn of this species may often be seen beneath the 
manure in pastures where no sign of the mushroom 
itself is yet apparent. 

During the writing of the present pages I have 
received from Arizona a letter accompanied with a 
sketch of a most astonishing mushroom, 
A huge which my correspondent finds plenti- 
variety fuHy prevalent in his vicinity, growing 
in arid sand, even in an exceptionally 
dry season. He claims that "it is deliciously ed- 
ible," and he has partaken of it several times. His 



AGARICS 93 

sketch and description call to mind no existing form 
of mushroom known to me, though from one peculi- 
arity in particular  namely, its frequently enormous 
size, " occasionally ten inches in diameter "  one 
would naturally expect to find it at least notorious, 
if not famous. 

It is plainly an Agaric related to the Campestris, 
and from the fact of its having " pink gills darker in 
older specimens " I suspect it to be simply another 
local masquerade of this same Campestris, which sus- 
picion, by the receipt of further data, I hope soon to 
verify. 

HORSE-MUSHROOM 
Agaricus arvensis 

This other and larger variety, so readily confound- 
ed with the Campestris, demands further and more 
detailed description. It may frequently be found 
growing in company with the former, and so closely 
do the two kinds merge in specimens of equal size 
that it is often a puzzle to separate the species. In- 
deed, as already mentioned by some mycologists, the 
larger form is considered merely as a variety of the 
Campestris. The accompanying plate (5) may well 
serve as a portrait of this species also. It frequents 
the same localities as the former, and is occasional- 
ly seen crowded in clusters of crescent 
Description shape, or in scattered rings, while its 
of Arvensis size is generally conspicuous, the solid 
cream -colored or white cap often ex- 
panding to the diameter of seven inches. Its sub- 
stance discolors to yellowish brown on being bruised. 



94 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The stem is less solid than in Campestris, often with 
a pithlike or even hollow heart. The gills are of 
unequal length, as in the former species, though of 
much the same tints of pink and brown and black, 
though more dingy in the lighter shades. The veil 
is often more conspicuous, and occasionally appears 
to be double, the outer or lower more or less ragged 
or split into a fringe at the edge. The species can 
hardly be mistaken for any poisonous variety, and, 
once recognized, its generous size, frequent profusion, 
and savory qualities make it a tempting quest to the 
epicure, being considered by many as superior in fla- 
vor to its rival, the smaller Campestris. 

But this question of gastronomic prestige will per- 
haps never be finally settled. De gustibus non est 
disputandum. Species considered here 

In matters by many as the ne plus ultra of delica- 
of taste cies, like the Campestris, are discrimi- 
nated against in other countries, and in 
Rome, it is said, are even thrown into the Tiber by 
inspectors and guardians of the public health who 
find it exposed for sale in the markets. There are 
those connoisseurs in delicate feasting who consider 
no other species comparable to this. These fastidi- 
ous gourmands are in turn viewed with pitying con- 
sideration by other superior epicurean feeders with 
finer sensuous discrimination, who know perfectly 
well that our woods afford a number of common 
species which easily consign the Campestris to the 
fourth or fifth choice as a competitor at the feast. 

The arts of the chef have been exhausted in the 
savory preparation of this, the most famous of the 



AGARICS 95 

mushrooms. A few of his ingenious methods are 
given in a later chapter. Meanwhile most of us will 
be perfectly contented with our simple " mushrooms 
on toast." 

While the Campestris is generally considered as 
" the " mushroom, there is another species which al- 
most equally shares the honors in popular favor. 

I have alluded to the habit of the horse-mushroom 
as "growing in crescents or rings." This singular 
tendency is, however, much more fully exemplified 
in another fungus, which has thus won the popular 
patronymic of the "Fairy -ring" Champignon, and 
which is considered on page loi. 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 
Agaricus gambosus 

[Another very common example of mushroom in 
its season of early spring is the Agaricus gambosus, 
or St. George's mushroomjas it is popularly styled 
in Great Britain, from its usual appearance about the 
time of St. George's Day, April 23d. Hn addition to 
its unusually early season, which is the same with 
us, and which at this date would be a valuable hint 
in its identification, it has also the singular habit of 
growing in rings or clustered in crescents, after the 
manner of the Fairy -ring Champignon of our lawns^j 
Add to this, also, a very strong odor, 
Remarkably and we have at least three suggestive 
stroiig odor characteristics to aid usj This odor, 
according to Dr. Cooke, is so strong 
as to occasionally become oppressive and overpower- 
ing where the fungus is plentiful. Workmen em- 



96 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ployed to root them out are said to have been so 
overcome by the odor as to be compelled to desist. 
Other features of this fungus are noted in Plate 7. 
The cap varies in size in different individuals, but is 
occasionally very large  five inches or more in diam- 
eter, the average expanse, perhaps, being about three 
inches. The cap is smooth, thick, and fleshy, sug- 
gesting soft kid leather, at first rounded convex, ulti- 
mately expanding quite 
horizontally, and is com- 
monly fissured here and 
there with irregular cracks, 
both in its expanse and 
at its edges. Its color is 
white, or yellowish white. 
In surface appearance Dr. 
Berkeley compared it to a 
" cracknel biscuit." The 
gills are yellowish white, 
very moist and densely 
crowded, and of various lengths, as indicated in my 
sectional drawing on the plate, and are, moreover, 
annexed to the solid stout stem by a toothed border, 
also shown herewith. 

Prhe season of this mushroom extends into June, 
and in its favorite haunt it may occasionally be gath- 
ered by the bushel^ Opinions are at 
Epicurean variance as to the comparative esculent 
opinions qualities of this species. Certainly deli- 
cacy cannot be claimed for it ; but 
those epicures who desire the characteristic fungus 
flavor at its maximum will find it in the Gambosus. 




TOOTHED GILLS 



G^^azicud qambodud 



TLATE VU 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 

Agaricus gambosus 

Pileus : Three to six inches in diameter, occasionally much 
larger; rounded convex, at length more flat and common- 
ly cracked here and there; surface smooth, thick, and 
fleshy, suggesting soft kid leather. Color, pale ochre 
or yellowish white. 

Gills: Densely crowded; yellowish white; very moist; va- 
rious lengths; each annexed to stem by a small sharp 
downward curve. 

Stem: Solid; stout; substance creamy white. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Highly flavored ; by some considered "too gamy." 

Odor : Powerfully strong, perhaps rank. 

Habitat: Fields, lawns, and pastures, frequently growing in 
broken rings or crescents. 



PLATE VM 




Agaricus Gambosus. 



AGARICS lOI 

By many fungus -feasters this species is prized as 
the ne plus ultra^ and most various, are the methods 
of its culinary preparation, either in the form of mince 
and fricassee with various meats, suitably seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and butter, or simply broiled and 
served on buttered toast. An appetizing recipe for 
this especial mushroom is given on page 313. 

TRUE FAIRY-RING CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius oreades 

I remember, as a boy, summer after summer ob- 
serving upon a certain spot upon our lawn this dense, 
and at length scattering, ring of tiny 
Fairy=ring yellowish mushrooms, .and the aroma, 

mushrooms ' . , , . , 

true and false as they Simmered on the kitchen stove, 
is an appetizing memory. This species 
is very common, and inasmuch as it is likely to be 
confounded with two noxious varieties, it is advisable 
to bring in- prominent contrast the characters of the 
true and the false. 

The true Fairy -ring Champignon is pictured in 
Plate 8. It is common on lawns and close-cropped 
pastures, where it is usually seen growing in ring? 
more or less broken, and often several feet in diam- 
eter, or in disconnected arcs, the vegetation extend- 
ing outward year by year. This mushroom is held 
in great esteem, and frequently grows in such pro- 
fusion that bushels may be gathered in a small area. 

-The pileus is buff or cream colored, from one to 
two inches in diameter, leathery and shrivelled when 
dry, but when moist, after rain or dew, becoming 
brownish, soft, and pliable, the conditions perhaps 



I02 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

alternating for several days ; the skin refuses to be 
peeled, and in the older, fully opened specimens the 
centre of the cap is raised in a distinct 
"True" tiny mound; gills, widely separated, 
fairy-ring about ten or twelve to the inch at cir- 
cumference in average specimens, same 
color as cap, or paler, unequal in length, curving 
upward on reaching stem, thus ''free " from apparent 
contact with it ; stem, equal diameter, tough, fibrous, 
and tenacious, paler than gills, smooth to the base 
{no spines nor down) ; cup, none ; spores, white ; taste 
nutty, somewhat aromatic, appetizing ; habitat usually 
on lawns or pastures. 

The "ring" was long involved in mystery, being at- 
tributed to moles, lightning, witchcraft, etc. ; and, 
clothed with popular^ superstition, has 
'"'"'^f'th'"* found its way into many folk-legends, 
mystic " ring " and has figured in the lore of elfs and 
goblins, to whom, in the absence of 
scientific knowledge, the strange, fungus-haunted cir- 
cle was referred, the " ring " being applied not merely 
to the circle of mushrooms themselves, but especially 
to the clearly defined ring of clear, fresh grass sur- 
rounding the central, more faded area. But the fair- 
ies no longer dance their moonlight rigadoon upon 
the charmed circle of the champignon, nor do the 
nimble elves " rear their midnight mushrooms " upon 
the rings of lush grass as of old, for science has 
stepped in and cleared up the mystery. The Rev. 
M. J. Berkeley, in his Outlines to British Fungology, 
thus completely rescues the " fairy-ring " from the do- 
main of poetry and reduces it to prosaic fact: 



cJloazadmiud ozeaded 



TLATE yill 

FAIRY RING CHAMPIGNON 

Marasmius oreades 

Pileus: Convex at first, becoming flat, with a mound at cen- 
tre, at juncture of stem ; texture, tougii and pliable when 
moist, brittle in drying, alternating between these two 
conditions with rain and sun ; color, reddish buff at first, 
becoming cream colored when old, when it is usually 
quite wrinkled. 

Gills: Broad, and quite separated; about ten or twelve to the 
inch at rim in large specimens; unequal in length; deep 
cream color; clearing the stem as they curve upward 
towards cap. 

Stem: Solid; equal diameter; tough and fibrous; naked and 
smooth at base. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Sweet, "nutty," and appetizing. 

Odor: Aromatic and pleasant. 

Habitat: Pastures and lawns, generally growing in rings or 
curved lines. 

Diameter of pileus, full expansion, one to two inches. 



PLATE VIII 




Marasmius Oreades. 



AGARICS 



107 



" These rings are sometimes of very ancient date, 
and attain such enormous dimensions as to be dis- 
tinctly visible on a hill-side for a great 
The "ring" distance. It is believed that they orig- 
explained inate from a single fungus whose growth 
renders the soil immediately beneath 
unfit for its reproduction. The spawn, however, 
spreads all around, and in the second year produces 
a crop, whose spawn spreads again, the exhausted 
soil behind forbidding its return in that direction. 
Thus the circle is continually increased, and extends 
indefinitely till some cause intervenes to destroy it. 
If the spawn does not spread on all sides at first, an 
arc of a circle only is produced. The manure aris- 
ing from the dead fungi of former years makes the 
grass peculiarly vigorous around, so as to render the 
circle visible even when there is no external appear- 
ance of fungus, and the contrast is often stronger 
from that behind being killed by the old spawn. 
This mode of growth is far more common than is 
supposed, and may be observed constantly in our 
woods, where the spawn can spread only in the soil 
or among the leaves and decaying fragments which 
cover it." 

Many recipes are recommended for the preparation 
of this mushroom, some of which are given in a later 
chapter, including the method of des- 
Various iccation so commonly employed with 
recipes other species, and by which the cham- 
pignon may be kept for ready use 
throughout the winter months. 

In its fresh state, according to J. M. Berkeley, " When 



I08 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of good size and quickly grown, it is perhaps the best 
of all fungi for the table, whether carefully fried or 
stewed with an admixture of finely mixed herbs and 
a minute portion of garlic. It is at the same time 
tender and easy of digestion, and when once its use is 
known and its character ascertained, no species may 
be eaten with less fear. It is so common in some dis- 
tricts that bushels may be gathered in a day." 

FALSE OR POISON CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius urens 

There are two other species of mushroom which 
might possibly be mistaken for the above by the 
casual eye, but which are easily distinguishable on 
careful examination. The first of these is the false 
Champignon (Plate 9, fig. i). The most important 
distinguishing features are italicized. They will be 
seen to afford a striking contrast to the true edible 
species in these especial characters. 

The pileus is pale buff, convex, central mound ab- 
sent; the cap varies from one-half to one and a half 
inches in diameter, and is thus slightly smaller than 
the " true " fairy-ring ; gills, yellowish brown, narrow, 
and crowded, twenty - five or more to the inch at cir- 
cumference in good specimen, curving upward at 
junction with stem, thus '' free " from actual attach- 
ment; stem, solid, clothed with whitish down, espe- 
cially noticeable at the base ; cup, none ; taste, acrid. 
This last quality alone should distinguish the species, 
which, moreover, usually grows in woods, though oc- 
casionally found upon the lawn in association with 
the edible species. 



cJlbazadmiud uzend 
cJloazadmiud pezonatud 



TLATE IX 

POISONOUS CHAMPIGNONS 

Marasmius urens 

Pileus: Pale buff in color; tough and fleshy; flat convex, 

becoming depressed and at length wrinkled; one to two 

inches in diameter. 
Gills: Unequal, cream colored, becoming brownish; much 

closer together than in the true Champignon, hardly 

reaching the stem proper. 
Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, its surface more or less covered 

with white, flocculent down, and densely clothed with 

white down at base. 
Taste: Acrid. 
Habitat: Lawns and pastures, often in association with the 

edible M. oreades. 

Marasmius peronatus 

Pileus: Reddish buff; convex slightly flattened at top, be- 
coming convex by expansion; very wrinkled when old; 
diameter, at full expansion, between one and two inches. 

Gills : Thin and crowded ; creamy, becoming light reddish 
brown, continuing slightly down stem by a short, abrupt 
curve. 

Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, densely clothed with stiff yel- 
low hairs at base. 

Taste: Acrid. 

Habitat: In woods, among dead leaves, etc. 



PLATE IX 









Poisonous Champignons. 

MARASMIUS URENS. M. PERONATUS. 



AGARICS I I 3 

POISONOUS FAIRY-RING MUSHROOM 
Marasmius peronatus 

The other false species (Plate 9, fig. 2) still more 
closely simulates the "fairy-ring," but may be identi- 
fied by the growth of spines at the base of the stalk. 
The gills are also annexed to the stalk by a small, 
sharp, recurved tooth. Like the previous spurious 
species, it is found in woods, and is rarely to be seen 
in association with the true Champignon or in its 
peculiar haunt. 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 
Agaricus {Lepiotd) procerus 

One of the most readily recognized of our wild 
mushrooms is the pasture or parasol Agaric {Aga- 
ricus procerus), a cluster of which in 
various stages of development is shown 
in Plate 10. It is frequently abundant 
in pasture - lands, and is occasionally 
found in woods. Its conspicuous cap sometimes 
measures six inches or more in diameter, the centre 
being abruptly raised in a mound. The pileus is at 
first egg-shaped. The color of the full specimen is 
pale-brown or buff, more or less spotted with darker 
brown shaggy patches, generally arranged in some- 
what concentric order. The skin of the cap is thick 
and somewhat tough, especially in drying. The gills 
are almost pure white in early specimens, slightly 
creamy later, and unequal in length. Stem, often 
six or eight inches high, proportionately slender, and 
of equal diameter, bulbous at base, but without a 



114 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



cup, hollow, fibrous, finely speckled or streaked with 
brown, and deeply inserted in the cap, at which 
juncture, by a narrow flat space, as shown in the 
section drawing below, it is distinctly free from con- 
tact with the gills. The remnants of the veil are in 
the form of a more or less detachable ring encircling 




the stem. The spores are white and odorous. The 
flavor, when raw, is distinctly nutty, aromatic, sweet, 
and palatable ; when dry, slightly pungent. 

This species is cosmopolitan, and is a great favor- 
ite on the Continent  in France being known as the 
Coulemelle, in Italy as Bubbola mag- 
Simple giore, and in Spain as Cogomelos. It 
recipe ig by many considered as the choicest 
of all mushrooms, and is indeed a deli- 
cious morsel when quickly broiled over coals, seasoned 
to taste with salt and pepper and butter melted in 
the gills, and served hot on buttered toast. Other 
recipes are noted in a later chapter. The scurfy 
spots and stems should be removed before cooking. 



aztcud pzocezud 



TL/ITE X 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 

Agarieus procerus 

Pileus : At first egg-shaped, finally expanded like a parasol 
four to seven inches in diameter, the apex raised in a 
prominent mound or "umbo." Color pale buff or creamy, 
occasionally almost pure white, more or less regularly 
spotted with the brown shaggy patches of the separating 
epidermis, which remains of the pale brown color on the 
"umbo." Skin' thick and somewhat tough; substance 
hygrometric, drying and swelling naturally in its haunts. 

Gills: Unequal in length; crowded; at first almost white, 
finally becoming creamy or pale buff. 

Stem: Tall, slender, equal, hollow, and fibrous; bulbous at 
base, but with no sign of a "cup;" separated from the 
gills above by a distinct space ; surface streaked and 
speckled with brown, encircled by a loose ring. 

Spores : White, and, like the whole plant, fragrant aromatic 
 more so, perhaps, than any other fungus. 

Taste: Distinctly sweet and " nutty," slightly pungent when 
dry. 

Habitat: Pastures and fields, occasionally woods. 

Season: Summer. 



PLATE X 










..i 



Agaricus Procerus, 



AGARICS I I 9 

This species is especially free from the swarrtiing 
grubs too commonly found in mushrooms. It is high- 
ly hygrometric, dries naturally even 
Hygrometric while standing in the pasture, in which 
properties condition it is decidedly aromatic in 
fragrance and nutty sweet to the taste, 
as described. Indeed, it is sometimes called "the 
nut mushroom." Absorbing moisture from the dews 
and rains, it again becomes pulpy and enlarged, thus 
alternating for days between its juicy and dry con- 
dition, in which latter state it may be gathered and 
kept for winter use. It is a palatable morsel at all 
times, but especially in the prime of its first expan- 
sion, each successive alternation, with its gradual loss 
of spores, affecting its full flavor. 

THE RUSSULA GROUP 

Among the wild species of mushrooms which the 
novice might possibly mistake for the common "mush- 
room " of the markets  ^which is popularly supposed 
to be the only edible variety, as distinguished from 
"toadstools"  is the Russula group. They are ex- 
tremely frequent in our woods from spring to late 
autumn, and have many features in common. Their 
caps vary in color from a gray -green, suggesting 
cheese-mould, to olive-red, scarlet-red. 
Generic and purplish. The gills are generally 
characters of the same length, or practically so, 
occasionally double -branched, begin- 
ning at the stem and usually extending to the rim of 
the cap, at which portion they are covered by the 



I20 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

mere skin of the pileus, a slightly fluted appearance 
being observable from above, which indicates the lo- 
cation of the radiating laminae below (Plate 12, fig. 6). 

The stem may be white or cream-colored, or perhaps 
stained or mottled with the color of the cap. 

There are at least four of these edible Russulae 
that we are certain of meeting in our walks in the 
woods : The green Russula (-/?. virescens), with its mot- 
tled cap of mouldy or sage green ; the various-gilled 
Russula {R. heterophylla), varying in the 
Principal lengths of its gill plates ; the purple 
species Russula {R. lepida), whose cap varies 
from bright red to dull purple ; and the 
red Russula {R. alutacea), which presents a variety of 
shades of red, from bright to dull. Having once 
identified the Russula as a group, or the common 
characteristics of the genus, we may take our pick 
from all of these delicious species for the table ; but 
we must avoid one other member of the genus, also 
quite common, and which frequently masquerades in 
the guise of some of the bright red varieties above 
mentioned. This is the R. emetica, whose obnoxious 
qualities are indicated by its classical surname, and 
which will be separately considered. 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 
Agaricus (Russula) virescens 

Our first species, the green Russula, is to be found 
throughout the summer in hard-wood groves, and is 
apt to frequent the same immediate locality from year 
to year. I know one such veritable mushroom bed 
in the woods near by, where I am almost certain of 



AGARICS 



121 



my mess of Russulae almost any day in their season. 
This species is shown in its various stages of develop- 
ment and also in section in Plate 1 1. Its substance is 
firm and solid creamy white. The pileus, at first al- 
most hemispherical, as it pushes its 
Specific way through the earth, at length be- 
cliaracters comes convex, with a slight hollow at 
the centre, and later ascends in a gentle 
slope from centre to rim. Its color is sage green, or 
mouldy green, usually quite unbroken in tint at cen- 
tre, but more or less disconnected into spots as it ap- 







RUSSULA VIRESCENS 
(Showing mottled cap of occasioDal specimen, and variations in gills, i even ; s/ofAed; 3 dimidiate.) 

proaches the circumference by the gradual expansion 
of the cap, the creamy undertint appearing like net- 
work between the separated patches of color. The 
substance of the cap becomes gradually thinned tow- 
ards the circumference, where the mere cuticle con- 
nects the gills, the position of these gills being ob- 
servable from above in a faint fluting of the edge, a 
peculiarity of all the Russulae. The cuticle peels 



122 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

readily some distance from the edge, leaving the 
projecting tips of the gills exposed in a row of comb- 
like teeth, but usually adheres towards the centre of 
cap. The gills, with rare exceptions, are all of the 
same lejigth, white or creamy in color, firm and thick, 
but very brittle, easily broken into fragments by a rude 
touch, a characteristic of all the group ; spores, white. 
The stem is short, stout, and solid, and usually tapers 
towards the base. There is no vestige of a cup or 
veil at any stage of growth. 

A fine specimen of the green Russula should 
measure five inches in diameter when fully open, but 
three inches is probably the average size. 

When once acquainted with the above as a type 
of the Russula group, noting the firm substance, 
straight, equal gills, and their brittle 
The noxious texture ; the sweet, nutty flavor com- 
Russuis mon to all the edible species, these be- 
come readily identified, the noxious 
Russulae, as in the brilliant pink or scarlet R. emetica 
(Plate 13), being acrid asidi peppery to the taste. 

In an auspicious season and in a congenial habitat 
 usually an open wood with scant undergrowth and 
preferably raked clean of dead leaves  the green Rus- 
sula is often abundant. Familiarity even with this 
one species will often afford a sufficien- 
^''^^often**"'^ ^y ^ fungus food during its season. A 
sufficient lady amateur mycophagist of the writ- 
er's acquaintance, whose home is locat- 
ed at the border of such a wood as is above described, 
and who is especially fond of the green Russula, is 
never at a loss for this especially prized tidbit as a 



cJlDUddulctD 



vizedcend 



TL/tTE XI 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 

Russula vireseens 

Pileus : Very firm ; solid, dull, dry-surfaced, as with a fine 
"flock"; mouldy green or creamy, with sage-greenish 
broken spots more united at centre; occasionally entirely 
green, with warty patches of darker hue. At first glob- 
ular, then convex with flat top, at length expanded and 
hollowed towards centre. 

Gills: Pale, creamy white; commonly all of equal length, but 
frequently unequal and forked; very brittle, breaking in 
pieces at a rude touch. 

Stem: Solid; creamy white; no veil. 

Taste : Very mild, sweet, and nut-like. 

Habitat : In woods  July-September. 

Diameter of pileus, ideal specimen, four inches. 



PLATE XI 




RUS5ULA ViRESCENS. 



AGARICS 



127 



reward for her daily stroll among the trees. A vis- 
itor may often see upon her buffet a small glass ^Jish 
filled with the mushrooms, nicely scraped and cut in 
pieces  an ever-present relish between meals. For 
even in their natural state, as she discriminatingly 
says, they are " as sweet as chestnuts." This is espe- 
cially the case with the " buttons " or younger speci- 
mens. 

PURPLE RUSSULA 

Russula lepida 

This, perhaps the most common species, is figured 
in Plate 12, fig. 3. It corresponds with the fore- 
going in size as well as in general shape, firm text- 




RUSSULA LEPIDA -CONTORTED AND CRACKED PILEUS 

ure, and friable nature of the gills. The pileus of 
this species frequently assumes eccentric shapes, or is 
often cracked, as seen in the accompanying cut. Its 



128 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

name of " purple " is probably local in its application, 
as it is known also as the red Russula, neither of 

which titles is at all distinctive. In- 
Color of cap deed, the color of the cap is often a mis- 
misleading leading character for identification, as a 

given species may vary greatly in this 
particular. This feature is thus generally omitted in 
purely scientific descriptions, more dependence being 
placed upon the tint of the flesh and that of the spore 
surface, the laminae or gills, which are more perma- 
nent and reliable as a character. Thus, in the present 
species, R. lepida, the tint of the pileus or cap is often 
of a deep dull purplish red or ruddy wine color. An- 
other authority describes it as violet -red and cherry- 
red or slightly tawny, paler at circumference. Berke- 
ley, in his British Fungi, omits any reference to the 
color of the cap, as evidently of little value in identifi- 
cation. But from numerous examples gathered by 
the present writer, the color may, I think, be safely 

averaged under the general hue of dark, 

Specific subdued red inclining to maroon. The 

characters surface is dull, as with a fine dust or 

plum-like bloom, and thus without pol- 
ish. Occasional specimens appear almost velvety in 
the sheen of surface. But the tints of the flesh and 
the gills are always uniform, the leaflets or gills being 
pure white or very slightly creamy, continuous from 
stem to rim or occasionally forked, not crowded, 
curved in outline in open specimen, with broadest 
width near the circumference of cap. The flesh is 
white or slightly creamy, firm and compact as in the 
former species, with the same variations of outline 



(hJible^ cJiDUdduLce 



VL/ITE XII 

EDIBLE RUSSUL/E 

1. Russula heterophylla Variable Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; greenish or pinkish -gray; at first con- 
vex, with flat top, ultimately rising from centre to rim. 

Gills: Milk-white; extremely brittle, like all the Russute, 
and easily crumbled (see Fig. 7) ; long, short, and forked 
intermixed. Fig. 5. 

Stem: Milk-white; solid. 

Taste: Mild and sweet. 

2. Russula alutaeea Yellow- gilled Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; shape as in above; color very variable, 
from bright to deep red; cuticle thin at rim, where the 
lines of junction of gills are readily discernible from above 
by the depressed channels. Fig. 6. 

Gills : Equal, brittle, broad ; yellow - buff color in all stages. 
Fig. 4. 

Stem: Solid; milk-white, commonly stained or streaked with 
red towards the base. 

Taste : Sweet and nut-like. 

3. Russula lepida Purple Russula 

Pileus : In shape like above, varying in color from bright 
red to dull, subdued purplish, with a distinct bloom. 

Gills: White, broad, principally even, occasionally forked as 
in Fig. 1 ; like the above, extremely brittle. Fig. 7. 

Stem: Solid; white, usually stained and streaked with pink. 
Fig. 8. 

Taste : Sweet, and similar to above. 

Average diameter of extended pileus of each of these spe- 
cies about three and one-half inches; veil absent in each. 
Habitat : AH grow in woods  ^July-September. 



PLATE XII 





7 



/ c^^ 



Edible Russulae. 

RUSSULA HETEROPHYLLA. RALUTACEA. R.LEPIDA. 



AGARICS 133 

from early stage to maturity. The stem is white, 
solid, and generally more or less tinted or streaked 
vertically with rose or pale crimson (Fig. 8). The 
taste of the flesh is sweet and appetizing. 

YELLOW-GILLED RUSSULA 
Russula alutacea 

Our third example of the Russula is one which is 
also quite common in our woods, and which might in 
the extreme variation of its color be confounded with 
the last by a careless observer, as indeed both might 
be still further confounded with the poisonous mem- 
ber bearing the red tint, and which will be hereafter 
considered. The Russula alutacea (PI. 12, figs. 2, 4, 6) 
is a delicious species. In general size 

Botanical and contour it resembles the foregoing. 

characters The color of the cap varies from bright- 
red to blood- red or even approaching 
the purplish red of the preceding species, lightening 
towards edge. But we have a clear distinction in the 
color of the gills, which are distinctly yellowish, pale 
ochre, or nankeen, in all stages of the mushroom, or 
even tawny in old specimens. They are, moreover, 
usually all of even length, being straight and continu- 
ous from stem to circumference of pileus, none of 
them forked, their juncture with the edge of the cap 
being clearly manifest from above by the thinness of 
the cuticle. The flesh is white, stem firm and solid, 
white and smooth, often tinted with pink or red. The 
flesh of the cap often appears pinkish upon peeling 
the cuticle from the edge. The taste resembles that 
of the previous species  sweet and nutty. 



134 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

VARIOUS -GILLED RUSSULA 
Russula heterophylla 

Growing in company with both of the above is 
frequently to be seen another species, which is some- 
what protean in its accomplishments of color, but 
which in the character of its gills, as implied in its 
scientific name, gives us a ready means 
Botanical of identification  heterophylla  various- 
characters leaved (PI. 12, figs, i and 5). In the pre- 
vious examples of Russulae the gills have 
been commonly straight, continuous from stem to 
edge of cap, or more rarely forked and continuous in 
the bifurcation. In the present species we have both 
of these conditions, combined also with what are 
called dimidiate gills, or shorter leaflets, which reach, 
perhaps, only half-way from rim to stem, all crowded 
together and alternating. The color of the cap is 
very variable  occasionally pinkish-ash color or dull 
pinkish-gray inclining to green or olive or even red. 
Its surface is smoother than in the foregoing species, 
being almost polished, and the pellicle of the cap is 
usually noticeably thinner. Having found such a 
specimen, possessing also all the other attributes of 
shape, firmness of flesh, and dry brittleness of gills, 
if tasted and found sweet in flavor it may be eaten 
without the slightest fear, and like its congeners will 
be found a delicious morsel, whether nibbled raw, as 
the squirrels are so fond of doing, or served hot on 
toast as an entree, or otherwise prepared according 
to taste. 

Various methods prevail in the culinary prepara- 



AGARICS 



135 



tion of the Russula mushroom, man}' of which are 
suggested among the receipts in another chapter, but 

broiling is perhaps the most simple and 
'b^roiler generally satisfactory. Having thor- 
Russula oughl}' cleaned the top, or, if desired, 

peeled the cuticle, place the mushrooms 
on a gridiron over a hot fire, gills downward, for a 
few moments, sufficient to allow them to be heated 
through without scorching. Then reverse them and 
repeat the process, melting a small piece of butter in 
the gills and salting and peppering to taste; serve 
hot on toast or in the platter with roast beef or fowl. 
They are also delicious fried in the ordinary way, 
either with or without batter. 

The Russula is particularly in favor among the 
fungus- eating insects, whose rapid development and 




AN INFESTED SPECIMEN 



voracity are consistently related to the ephemeral 
nature of their food. A Russula specimen showing 



136 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

barely a trace of insect life when gathered will some- 
times prove literally honey-combed and totally unfit 
for food in the space of twenty-four hours. It is 
therefore well to cut each specimen in sections be- 
fore venturing upon its preparation for the table, and 
to profit thereby according to our individual fastidi- 
ousness, as suggested on page 2)1  

While the above esculent species of Russulas are 
being familiarized by the tyro, he must now be put 
on guard against a certain dangerous species of the 
group, which is sure to claim his attention, being 
especially fond of the good company of its cousins, 
and likely to do some mischief through its frequent 
disguise. 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 
Russula emetica 

The variability in the coloring of the three edible 
species already described brings them occasionally 

into such close similarity with the 

The poisonous gamut of color of the one common poi- 

Russula sonous species of the group that this 

enemy must also be familiarized ere we 
venture too confidently upon our Russula diet. The 
Russula emetica (Plate 13), as its name implies, is at 
war with luxurious gastronomy, but its distinction 
from the harmless varieties is, after all, quite simple. 
Its frequent general similarity to R. lepida and R. 
alutacea is such that the amateur should hardly rely 
upon the botanical characters alone. There is but 
one safe, as it is a simple, rule for him : He should 
taste every specimen of his Russula of whatever kind 



cJouddulcLP emeticacf 



VLATE XIII 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOIVI 

Russula emetica 

Pileus: Expansion two to four inches; color varying from 
pale bright pink to deep scarlet; very smooth. 

Gills: Broad (in section), mostly equal in length, and contin- 
uous from edge of cap to stem; not crowded; white. 

Stem: White or pinkish. 

Spores: White, like all Russulse. 

Taste : Hot and peppery. 

Habitat: Woods, with other Russulse. 

Season: July-September. 

Note.  While, for conservative reasons, the poisonous reputation of this 
species is here perpetuated, it is quite probable that such condemnation is un- 
warranted, except as to the raw mushroom. The peppery tang and demoral- 
izing powers are now claimed to be dissipated in cooking, and the B/itetica will 
doubtless soon be more generally included with its congeners among the es- 
culents, thus bringing the entire genus Ritssula into the friendly group. 

Captain Charles Mcllvaine is largely responsible for this conversion in favor 
of Emetica. His individual experiments warrant him in pronouncing this species 
" as good as the rest " when cooked. Others of the writer's acquaintance, fol- 
lowing his example, echo his opinion. 



PLATE XIII 




m 




RUSSULA E/AETICA. 
(POISONOUS) 



AGARICS 141 

before venturing upon its use as food. All of the 
sweet and palatable Russulae are esculent. When 

he chances upon the R. emetica he will 

A warning be aware of its important demoraliz- 

tang ing resources In the peppery-hot tingle 

of his tongue, which, if not instantly 
perceived, will within the space of a minute assert 
itself distinctly. All such acrid specimens should 
be excluded, as a single one would be sufficient to 
bring an ignominious denouement to an otherwise 
delectable feast. In the typical R. emetica the pileus 
is a bright, brilliant red  which, as we have said, 
is very variable, as indicated in our plate  often 
polished and shining ; the gills broad, equal, straight, 
continuous, not crowded, and white, as is the flesh be- 
neath the peeled cuticle. The stem is white or pink. 
The cap will average, perhaps, three inches in diam- 
eter, though occasionally reaching the dimensions in- 
dicated by the marks in plate, or even larger. 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 
Agaricus ostreatus 

What a mass of nutritious food do we occasionally 
pass in innocence or spurn with our foot upon the old 
stump or fallen log in the woods ! a neglected feast, 
indeed, if the specialists on edible fungi are to be be- 
lieved ; a feast, in truth, for a big family, if we chance 
upon even an average cluster of the " vegetable oys- 
ter," which is pictured in Plate 14. 

I have commonly observed this species, the Agari- 
cus ostreatus, in the autumn, and this is the season 
given for its appearance in Europe -b y th e au t h - oritt es ; 



142 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



but according to certain American-speciafet-Sy-notably 
Charles Mcllvaine, it is common in our woods in 

spring, even as early as March, and 

A "vegetable through the summer. It is usually 

oyster" found in large clusters, Sri-mi-l-ar-to our 

illustration, growing upon decaying 
stumps and the trunks of various trees. The " oys- 
ter" is a gilled mushroom which grows sidewise from 
its position, the stem being usually lateral and very 
short, though occasionally quite prolonged, the two 
varieties being indicated in the accompanying cut. 




AGARICUS OSTREATUS Variations in Form 

The individual mushroom may be five or six inch- 
es in breadth, a cluster affording several pounds in 
weight. The color of the upper surface is light 
brown or buff, varying to yellowish-ashen, according 
to age, and the gills are dirty white of various 
lengths ; spores whitej^ 

This species and the one followingv belong to the 
subdivision of the: typical genus'-^Agarlcuv-eallecl 
Leucospori  white' spor'ed. The division has martj 



aticud odtzeatud 



TLATE XI y 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 

Agaricus ostreatus 

Pileus: Four to six inches in diameter; smootii. Color, dull, 

light yellowish, sometimes pale ochre or grayish. 
Gills: Dingy white; of various lengths, extending down the 

stem. 
Stem : Short or obsolete; on the side of pileus. 
Spores: White. 
Taste: Agreeable; suggesting the flavor of the cooked oyster; 

texture tough in older specimens. 
Odor: Pleasant. 
Habitat: On old tree trunks and fallen logs, occasionally in 

dense masses. 



PLATE XIV 




Agaricus Ostreatus. 



AGARICS 147 

sub -genera. The particular sub -genus in which 
these are included is the Pleurotus, or side -foot 
mushrooms, as they are sometimes called. 

Another earlier species with which A. osfraitiis 
might be confounded {A. ciiosunts) has spores of a 
rosy pinkish or lilac hue, a sufficient identification, 
and is accounted injurious. 











THIRTY POUNDS OF VEGETARLE HEAT 



The clustering growth of the " Oyster Mushroom ' 
frequently attains huge proportions, as will be seen 
from the above reproduction of a photograph sent to 
me by a correspondent. The dimensions of the mass 



148 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

are easily judged by the height of the gun leaning 
against the tree, and introduced for comparison. 
/^This "Oyster Mushroom" should be gathered in 
its young state, and may be served in various ways. 
Broiling over the coals, gills upward. 
Broiled seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt 
recipe during the cooking, is a favorite meth- 
od wkir^nost-ef-tbe-Agancs, but a well- 
known fungus epicure claims that this mushroom 
" may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, and 
will be found fine eating// 

The average specimen will probably prove more 
ashen in hue than those represented in my plate. 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 

Agaricus ulmarius 

This edible species of mushroom, allied to the 

foregoing, and which grows in similar clusters on the 

elm-tree, is the Agaricus ulmarius (Plate 

Appetizing 1 5). While much difference of opinion 
qualities prevails regarding the appetizing qual- 
ities of this mushroom or its right to 
a place among the esculents, this varying individual 
judgment has doubtless often had direct reference 
to the character of the particular specimen chosen 
for trial. Dr. M. C. Cooke is not disposed to place a 
high appreciation upon its qualities. " It has been 
customary," he says, " to regard this and some of its 
allies [presumably in allusion to the preceding] as 
alimentary, but there is no doubt that they could all 
be very well spared from the list." Opposed to this 
uncomplimentary aspersion is the testimony of other 



azicud uLmazlud 



TLATE XV 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 

Agaricus ulmarius 

Pileus: From three to five inches in diameter. Color, pale 
yellow or buff ; smooth in young specimen, fissured, 
spotted, and leathery at maturity. Flesh in section white. 

Gills : Dingy white, becoming tawny at maturity, extending 
down the stem. 

Stem : Various in length, occasionally very short and attached 
to side of pileus; generally longer as in Plate, and "off 
centre"; white; substance solid. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Suggesting fish when cooked. 

Odor: Pleasant. 

Habitat : Trunk of elm or from surfaces of broken or sawn 
branches. Often growing in dense masses covering sev- 
eral square feet. 



PLATE XV 





1 


w 


m 


^ 


/ 




/ 
/ 

( 


/ 

/ 

/ 



AcARicus Ulmarius. 



AGARICS 153 

authorities who claim that " it is most delectable " 
and " a delicious morsel." Certain it is that in its 
young and tender condition only is it fit for food, as 
it becomes progressively tough in consistency tow- 
ards maturity. 

As its specific name implies  Ulmus  this mush- 
room is devoted to the elm, upon whose trunk and 

branches it may be often seen, either 
Massive singly, which is rare, or in great dense 
growth masses, sometimes covering a space of 

several square feet, often, unfortunately, 
at an inaccessible height from the ground. I have 
in my possession a photograph which has been sent 
to me by an interested correspondent representing 
a dead tree trunk, apparently a foot in diameter, 
densely covered to a height of seven feet from the 
ground with a mass of the A. ulmarius  and pre- 
sumably representing thirty or forty pounds in weight. 
This species is most frequently seen on apparently 
healthy branches, or growing from the wood of a 
severed limb. Its season is late summer and au- 
tumn. 

A small cluster of these mushrooms is seen in 
Plate 15. They afford a good refutation of the old- 
time discriminating " ban," which excluded all mush- 
rooms which grow "sidewise," or " upon wood." The 

individual mushroom of this species is 
Botanical a horizontal grower, sometimes with a 
characters barely noticeable or obsolete stem ; in 

other specimens this portion being 
quite distinct and an inch or more in length, and 
firm and solid in texture. The upper surface is pale 



154 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

yellow or buff, smooth in the younger specimens, be- 
coming disfigured by spots and fissures with age. 
The flesh is white, as also are the gills, though more 
dingy, becoming tawny- tinted with maturity, when 
the entire mushroom becomes quite leathery in sub- 
stance, and might well awaken doubts as to its di- 
gestibility. The spores are white. 

This fungus is known in some sections as the 
" Fish Mushroom," referring to its peculiar flavor, the 
appropriateness of which appellation is suggested in 
the incident related by Mr. Palmer, and quoted in 
my last chapter. 

SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 
Coprinus comatus 

Upon a certain spot on the lawn of one of my 
neighbors, year after year, without fail, there springs 

up a most singular crop. For the first 
A plebeian two seasons of its appearance it was 
toadstool looked upon with curious awe by the 

proprietors of the premises, and usually 
ignominiously spurned with the foot by the undis- 
criminating and destructive small boy. One day I 
observed about five pounds of this fungus delicacy 
thus scattered piecemeal about the grass, and my 
protest has since spared the annual crop for my sole 
benefit. It usually makes its appearance in late 
September, and continues in intermittent crops until 
November. A casual observer happening upon a 
cluster of the young mushrooms might imagine that 
he beheld a convention of goose eggs standing on 
end in the grass, their summits spotted with brown. 



(oopzinud comatud 



TLATE XVI 

THE SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 

Coprinus comatus 

Pileus: Egg-shaped in young specimens; at length more 
cylindrical, and finally expanded, melting away in inky 
fluid. Color, creamy white, becoming black at edge with 
advancing age, as is also the case with the shaggy points 
upon its surface, which generally cover the pileus. 

Gills: Crowded; equal in length; creamy white in young 
specimens, becoming pink, brown, and finally black, and 
always moist. 

Stem : Cylindrical ; creamy white ; hollow, or with a loose 
cottony pith. 

Spores : Black, falling away in drops. 

Taste : Sweet, which applies only to the pink or white con- 
dition, at which time alone the species is considered es- 
culent. 

Habitat: Lawns, pastures, gardens, and rich grounds in the 
neighborhood of barns, etc. ; usually grows in dense 
clusters. 

Diameter of cylindrical pileus in average specimens, two 
inches. 

One of the most easily identified of all mushrooms. 



PLATE XVI 




COPRINUS COMATUS, 



AGARICS 



159 



If one of them is examined, it is seen to be a 
curious short-stemmed mushroom which never fully 
expands (Plate 16), perhaps five inches high, and 
whose surface is curiously decorated with shaggy 




A DINNER FOR A FAMILY 



patches. In its early stages it is white and singular- 
ly egglike, but later becomes brownish, its curved 
shaggy points finally changing to almost black. The 
concealed gills are crowded and of equal length, at 



l60 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

first creamy white, but gradually changing through 
a whole gamut of pinks, sepias, and browns until they 
become black, at which time the whole substance of 
the cap melts on its elongated stalk  
Inky deliquesces into an unsightly inky paste, 

deliquescence which besmears the grass and ultimate- 
ly leaves only the bare white stem 
standing in its midst, a peculiar method of dissem- 
ination which distinguishes the group Coprinus, of 
which it is the most conspicuous example. This is 
the " shaggy-mane " mushroom, Coprinus comatustthe 
specific name signifying a wig  "from the fancied 
resemblance to a wig on a barber's block." Even 
a brief description is unnecessary with its portrait 
before us. It is a savory morsel, and it cannot be 
confounded with any other fungus. It frequently 
grows in such dense, crowded masses that a single 
group will afford a dinner for a familyjl 

It should be gathered while the giHs are in the 
early white or pink stage, and may be prepared for 
the table in various ways, either broiled or fried, as 
described for previous species, or stewed with milk, 
or otherwise served according to the culinary hints in 
our later chapter, in which a special recipe for this 
species is found. 

In a recent stroll down the main street of Litch- 
field, Connecticut, I observed, over the fence in a 
front door-yard of a summer resident, just such a 
dense cluster of the shaggy Coprinus, the proprietor 
of the premises, an appreciative habitue of Delmoni- 
co's at other seasons of the year, complacently read- 
ing his morning paper in his piazza, little dreaming 



& 



opztnud atzamentaziud 



"PLATE Xl^Il 

THE INKY TOADSTOOL 

Coprinus atraraentarius 

Pileus: Fleshy, moist; at first egg-shaped ; of a Quaker-drab, 
dirty white, or even pale brownish color; at length be- 
coming expanded, umbrella- like, when it melts away in 
inky drops. 

Gills: Broad and crowded, nOt adhering to stem at top; 
creamy white in young species, becoming pinkish gray, 
and at length black. 

Stem: Firm; white; hollow. 

Spores: Black; shed in liquid drops. 

Taste : Sweet, as is also the odor, which applies to its early 
stage only. 

Habitat : About old decaying stumps and rotten wood, gar- 
dens, rich lawns, and barn -yards; usually growing in 
clusters, often very dense. 

Diameter of pileus, young state, two inches. 




PLATE XVII 




CopRiNus Atramentarius. 



AGARICS 165 

of the twenty pounds of dainty diet, fit for a king, so 
easily available. 

INKY MUSHROOM 
Copriiius atramentarius 

In frequent company with the foregoing will be 
found another allied species, Coprinus atramentarius 
(Plate 17), with the same inky propensities, which is 
scarcely less delicious as an article of food, fin this 
species the shaggy feature is absent, there being 
merely a few obscure slightly raised stains at the 
summit, of a brownish color. The stem 
Botanical is white and hollow. The surface of 
characters the pileus is smooth and of a Quaker- 
drab color,, occasionally dirty-white, or 
with a slight shade of ochre, moist to the touch, dark- 
ened by rubbing. In the eatable stage the caps are 
drooping, as shown in the cluster on the plate, while 
the mature specimen expands considerably before its 
inky deliquescence._^ Its texture when young is firm, 
and the thick gray cuticle peels readily, leaving an 
appetizing nutty-flavored morsel, delicious even when 
raw. The inky Agaric is frequent about barn-yards, 
gardens, and old stumps in woods, and usually grows 
in such crowded masses that the central individuals 
are compressed into hexagonal shape. Like the 
previous variety, it should be collected for food while 
its gills are in the white or pink stage. 

Cordier claims that all the species of Coprinus are 
eatable at this stage. The profusion in which they 
occasionally abound renders it often a simple matter 
to obtain a bushel of them in a few minutes. 



1 66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Like the foregoing, a large cluster of these mush- 
rooms leaves a most unsightly spot on the lawn. A 
diluted solution of this melting sub- 
Coprinus stance, as Cooke assures us, has been 
ink used " to replenish the ink-bottle. The 

resemblance is so complete that it may 
readily be employed as a substitute, all that is required 
being to boil and strain it, and add a small quantity 
of corrosive sublimate to prevent its turning mouldy." 
It may also be employed as pigment. It is, indeed, 
quite possible to paint the portrait of Coprinus with 
its own dark sepia, as the author has personally 
demonstrated. (See head- piece to " Illustrations.") 

MILKY MUSHROOM 
Lactarius deliciosus 

Prominent among the fungi which give unmistak- 
able characters for their identification is the genus 
Lactarius, or milky mushrooms, another group of the 
agarics or gilled fungi, from which we will select for 

our first example the Lactarius delict' 

Orange = milk osus, or orange- milk Agaric (Plate i8). 

Agaric The figure will itself almost serve to 

identify it in its advanced open stage. 
Having found a specimen resembling ^ur illustration, 
and anywhere from three to five inches in expanse, 
its general upper surface dull reddish -orange in 
color, more or less plainly banded with darker red, 
it is safe to predict that when its surface or gills are 
broken an exudation of milky juice will follow. If 
this exudation is orange or deep yellow in hue, grad- 
ually turning greenish on exposure, the identification 



Jjactaziud deiiciodud 



PLATE Xyill 

THE ORANGE-MILK MUSHROOM 

Laetarius deliciosus 

Pileus : Diameter three to five inches. Color varying from 
yellow to dull orange, or even brownish yellow with 
mottled zones of deeper color, especially in younger 
plants ; outline at first convex, ultimately somewhat fun- 
nel-shaped ; surface usually smooth and moist. 

Flesh: Brittle ; creamy, more or less stained with orange. 

Gills: Orange; generally clearer in hue than the pileus; when 
bruised, exuding a copious milky juice of orange color, 
becoming greenish in drying. 

Stem: Paler than pileus; hollow; occasionally spotted with 
orange or greenish stains from bruises. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Slightly peppery. 

Habitat: Woods, pine-groves, and swamps. 

Season : July-September. 



PLATE XVIII 




Lactarius Deliciosus. 



AGARICS 171 

is complete, and we have the orange-milk L. delicio- 
sus, of which an authority says, " It really deserves its 
name, being the most delicious mushroom known." 
W. G. Smith goes still further in its praise, assuring 
us that " when cooked with taste and care it is one 
of the greatest delicacies of the vegetable kingdom." 
The taste of this species when raw is slightly acrid, 
but this quality disappears in the cooking. 

One other species of Lactarius, L. volemum, may 
properly find a place in this work as being easily rec- 
ognized. In general shape it resembles 

.-^''^ M. L. deliciosus. The top is of a rich sien- 
white = milk ^ , 

species na golden hue ; the gills are crowded. 

The milk is white as it first falls from 

the fracture, becoming dull dark-reddish, and having 

a mild, pleasant taste; gills white, at length yellowish 

or buff -colored. This species is esculent. 

Other species are accounted edible, even one  the 

peppery Lactarius, L. piperatus  a pure-white variety, 

- ' '> whose copious exudations of OT/^zV^ milk 

Peppery ^jj| ai^nost blister the lips, an acrid 
white = milk , . , . , . , , ^ 

species property which is claimed, by Curtis, 

Smith, and others to be dispelled in 

cooking, by which treatment it becomes delicious and 

wholesome. 

This species may reach a diameter of seven inches, 

its shape at first rounded, convex, then flat, concave, 

and finally funnel-shaped, as in many of the species. 

But its decidedly ardent tang in the raw state, as 

reminiscent from my own experience, warns me not 

to dwell too enthusiastically upon its merits in my 

limited selection of desirable esculent species. 



172 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



THE CHANTARELLE 

Cantharelliis cibarins 

Bearing somewhat the shape of the Lactarius, but 
having its own distinguishing features, is the Chan- 
tarelle (Plate 19). 

The "Agarics," as already described on page 79, are 
distinguished by the feature of the gills, or thin lam- 
inated curtains  the hynienium  upon 
Fluted which the spores are produced, and 
gills from which they are shed beneath the 

mushroom. These gills vary in thick- 
ness and number in the various species, and in one 
genus are so short, thick, swollen, and branched as 
to give rather the effect of turgid veins than gills, as 

shown in the accom- 
panying sectional 
drawing. We occa- 
sionally come upon 
one of these mush- 
rooms in our walks, 
usually in the woods. 
When it first appears 
the cap is rounded, 
and the rim folded 
inward towards the 
stem ; but in mature 
specimens it assumes 
the flat or, later, the 
cup-shaped form shown in Plate 19. 

A fungus thus formed is a Chantarelle, or Can- 
tharellus, and is readily identified. Any specimen 




SECTION or CHANTARELLE 



io antliazeiiud clb 



ctbaziud 



TLATE XIX 

THE CHANTARELLE 

Cantharellus cibarius 

Pileus : At first convex, later flat; three to five inches in di- 
ameter, with central hollow, and finally almost funnel 
form. Color, bright to deep yellow above and below. 

Gills : Shallow and fluted, resembling swollen veins, branch- 
ed, more or less interconnected and tapering off down the 
stem; color same as pileus. 

Stem : Solid, generally (often slightly) tapering towards base; 
paler than pileus or gills. 

Spores: Very pale yellow ochre in color; elliptical. 

Taste: Peppery and pungent in the raw state; mild and 
sweet after cooking. 

Odor : Suggesting ripe apricots or plums. 

Habitat: In woods, especially hemlocks, generally in clusters 
of two or three, or in lines or arcs of several individuals. 



PLATE XIX 



.-^ / 




Cantharellus Cibarius. 



AGARICS 177 

having these features, and which possesses in addi- 
tion a fine, rich yellow color, is the C. cibarius of 
our plate, the esculent morsel so highly prized by 
epicures on the Continent, where to many  perhaps 
somewhat indiscriminating  gastronomists it forms 
one of the greatest delicacies among the entire list 
of edible fungi. The diameter of the mature speci- 
men may reach five inches, though three inches will 
be nearer the average size. The cap is frequently 

quite eccentric in its form, wavy-edged. 
Botanical or even folded upon itself in occasional 
characters individuals ; but the pure, deep yellow 

color " suggesting the yolk of an egg," 
and the swollen, vein -like hymenium, generally of 
a similar color, will be sufficient to distinguish it 
under any disguise of mere form. Another unique 
characteristic is its odor, which suggests ripe apri- 
cots or plums. The taste of the Chantarelle when 
raw is pungent and peppery, but this quality disap- 
pears in cooking. The spores are of a pale yellow- 
ochre color, and beneath the microscope are elliptical 
in shape. 

From the last of May until early November the 
Chantarelle may be found in our woods, with more or 
less frequency, singly or in clusters. According to 
Dr. Badham, an eminent authority on esculent fungi, 

"the best ways of dressing the Chan- 
stewed tarelle are to stew or mince it by itself, 
chantarelle or to combine it with meat or with 

other fungi. It requires long and gen- 
tle stewing to make it tender, but by soaking it in 
milk the night before, less cooking will be requisite." 



178 EDIBLE iMUSHROOMS 

But the recipes employed in Great Britain and 
upon the Continent to the glory of the Chantarelle 
would almost fill a fair-sized receipt book, and some 
of them are quite elaborate. A few of these are giv- 
en in a later chapter. After a trial of a number of 
them the writer is assured that the simple broiling or 
frying in butter or oil, with proper seasoning, and 
serving on toast, will prove a most acceptable sub- 
stitute. 

Another species of Chantarelle, which might possi- 
bly be confounded with the C. cibarius, is the Orange 
Chantarelle, C. aurantiacus, which is 
Another pronounced " scarcely esculent " by the 
species authorities. Its average size is much 
smaller than the true Chantarelle, and 
its much deeper orange hue, and straighter, more 
regularly branched and crowded gills, will readily 
identify it, the gills of cibarius being thicker, and 
usually somewhat eccentric and netted. Like the 
foregoing, it assumes the funnel form with age, as 
indicated in the generic name, Cantharellus  " a di- 
minutive drinking-cup." 





^^^Q^hlyporet 



HE previous examples of mushrooms 
- ^ have all been included in the order 
'"^ ^ of the Agarics, or " gill - bearing " 
fungi, the under spore-bearing sur- 
j face of the cap having been disposed 
in the form of laminae or gills. We 
will now pass to the consideration of a class of 
mushrooms certain of which /enjoy a wider reputa- 
tion as " toadstools " than any other species, a- new 
botanical order of fungi  the Polyporei  in which 
the gills are replaced by pores or tubes  polyporus 
(many pores). Conspicuous among the Polyporei 
are those great shelf -like woody growths so fre- 
quently to be seen on the trunks of trees) and popu- 
larly known as "punk," "tinder," and " touch - wood," 
and many of which increase in size year by year 
by accession of growth at the rim.||j^ few of these 
lateral - stemmed species are edible during their 
young state, one or two of which are included in 
my subsequent pagesJl But the most notable group 
from the standpoint of esculence is the typical genus 
Boletus, containing a large number of species, and 
of which Plate 20 presents a conspicuous example. 
Especial attention should here be called to the nota- 



l82 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ble monograph on the Boleti of the United States 

by State Botanist Professor Charles Peck, of Albany 

University, New York, which presents 

Works by detailed descriptions of one hundred 

Prof. Peck and eight indigenous species. Other 

contributions to mycological literature 

by this distinguished American authority are noted 

in my bibliographical list at the close of the volume. 

THE BOLETI 
Tube mushrooms 

The Structure of these mushrooms is clearly shown 
in Plate 38, in my chapter on " Spore -prints," the 
hymenium being here spread upon the honey-combed 
pore surfaces, and shedding its spores from the tubes. 
Each of these tubes is distinct and may be separated 
from the mass. 

The ideal form as shown in Plate 20 is perfectly 
symmetrical, in which condition the pores would nat- 
urally be perpendicular. But this perfection seldom 
prevails, and we continually find the specimens more 
or less eccentric in shape, especially where they are 
crowded or have met with obstruction in growth. 
But in any case, no matter what the angle or 
distortion of growth during development, the tubes 
are always adjusted to the perpendicular, or in mal- 
formed individuals as nearly so as the conditions 
will permit, as shown in the section on next page. 

The Boleti are in general a salubrious group. 
Certain species have long been accredited as being 
poisonous, and others excluded from the feast as "sus- 
picious." The early authorities caution us to avoid 



POLYPOREI 



183 



all Boleti having any shade of red on the spore-bear- 
ing surface beneath, even as it was originally claimed 
that all red-capped toadstools were poisonous. But 
from the writer's own individual experiments, rein- 
forced by the experience of others, he is beginning 
to be persuaded that the Boletus as a genus has been 




SECTION OF BOLETUS SHOWING PERPENDICULAR TUBES 

maligned. Many species accredited as poisonous he 
has eaten repeatedly without the slightest deleterious 
consequences, including the crimson Boletus, B. al- 
veolatus (Plate 24, fig. 2), vi^ith its red spore surface, 
and the B. stcbtomentosics (Plate 22, fig. i), whose yel- 
lowish flesh, like the species just mentioned, changes 
quickly to blue upon fracture, a chemical feature 
which has long stamped both species as dangerous. 



l84 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It is interesting to note that the ban is gradually 
being lifted from the Boleti by mycophagists of 
distinction, largely through their own experiments. 
Thus I note that Mr. Mcllvaine, who has made a 
close study of esculent fungi, in a recent article 
claims that "all the Boleti are harmless, though 
some are too bitter to eat " ; and Mr. Palmer, in his 
admirable portfolio of esculent fungi. 
Maligned includes among his edible species one 
species- of those whose flesh " changes color on 
fracture," and which has hitherto been 
proscribed as " off color." Of course, this food se- 
lection would obviously apply only to species of 
inviting attributes, possessing pleasant odor, agree- 
able taste, and delicate fibre. The selection com- 
prised in this volume is confined to a few varieties of 
established good repute. As to the rest  if only on 
the consideration of idiosyncrasy  it is wiser to urge 
extreme caution on the lines laid down on page 34. 

The Boletus, like all other mushrooms, passes 
through a variety of forms from its birth to maturity, 
at first being almost round, then con- 
Changes ^gj^^ ^jj.|^ j.j^g spore surface nearly fiat, 

in growtli horizontal, the profile outline finally 
almost equally cushion-like on both up- 
per afid lower surfaces, or the upper surface absolutely 
flat. Mere outline drawings of a number of Boleti 
would be almost identical. The form alone, there- 
fore, is of minor importance in their identification. 
Among those more readily recognized by their color 
and structural features, may be classed the following 
common species: 



cJooLetud edulid 



TLATE XX 

EDIBLE BOLETUS 

Boletus edulis 

Pileus: Cushion-like; moist; variable in color, light brown 
to darker brownish red; surface smooth but dull; dimen- 
sions at full expansion, three to six or eight inches. 

Tube surface {A  magnified) : Whitish in very young spec- 
imens, at length becoming yellow and yellowish green. 
Pore openings, angled. 

Spores: Ochre-colored. 

Stem : Stout ; often disproportionately elongated. Pale 
brown, generally with a fine raised net-work of pink 
lines near junction of cap. 

Flesh : White or yellowish, not changing color on fracture. 

Taste : Agreeable and nutty, especially when young. 

Habitat: Woods, especially during July and August; com- 
mon. 



PLATE XX 




Boletus Edulis. 



POLYPOREI 189 

EDIBLE TUBE MUSHROOM 
Boletus edulis 

The most prominent member of the Boleti is the 
typical species whose portrait I have given on Plate 
20, " in vain calling himself ' edulis', where there were 
none to believe him." But in spite of this remark of 
Dr. Badham, which had reference es- 
A famous pecially to his native country, England, 
delicacy this fungus had long been a favorite 
article of food among a large class of 
the more lowly Europeans, to say nothing of the lux- 
urious epicures of the continent. 

Boletus edulis is to be found singly or in groups, 
usually in the woods. Its average diameter is per- 
haps four or five inches, though specimens are occa- 
sionally found of double these dimensions. A letter 
to the writer from a correspondent in the Rocky 
Mountains describes specimens measuring fifteen 
inches in diameter having been found there. 

The cushion -like cap is more or less convex, ac- 
cording to age, of a soft brownish or drab color 
somewhat resembling kid, and with 
Specific velvety softness to the touch. The 
characters under surface or hymenium is thickly 
beset, honey-combed with minute ver- 
tical pores, which will leave a pretty account of them- 
selves upon a piece of white paper laid beneath 
them and protected from the least draught, a proc- 
ess by which we may always obtain a deposit of 
the ochre-tinted spores, as is further described in 
a later chapter. 



igo EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

In Boletus edulis this pore surface is white in 
young specimens, later yellow, finally becoming 
bright olive -green; flesh white or creamy, un- 
changeable on fracture. Stem paler than cap, thick, 
swollen at base, often malformed and elongated, es- 
pecially when from a cluster, generally more or less 
covered with vertical raised ridges, which become 
somewhat netted together and pinkish as they ap- 
proach the cap. The taste is sweet, and in the very 
young specimen, which is brittle, quite suggestive of 
raw chestnut. 

Any Boletus answering this description may be 
eaten without fear, assuming, of course, that its sub- 
stance is free from any taint of disso- 
insects lution and traces of insect contamina- 
and decay tion. Both of these conditions are too 
apt to prevail in the mature specimens, 
and all Boleti are more safely employed for food in 
their young crisp stage, or at least before their full 
expansion. In their maturity, moreover, they often 
prove too mucilaginous in consistency to be pleasant 
to the average partaker, especially the novice. 

In preparing them for the table, all that is neces- 
sary is to cut off the stems, which are apt to be 
tough and fibrous, and to wipe the pel- 
Preparation licle of the cap perfectly clean, or, if 
for table preferred, to pare the pileus with a very 
sharp knife. It is recommended by 
some that the entire mass of the pore section be re- 
moved. In a mature specimen this would reduce 
the bulk of the mushroom by half, and, moreover, 
deprive the remainder of the full flavor of the fun- 



cJooietud dcab 



ez 



TLATF. XXI 

ROUGH-STEMMED BOLETUS 

Boletus seaber 

Pileus: Rounded convex; diameter two to five inches; sur- 
face occasionally smooth and viscid when moist; color 
usually brownish red, but varying from orange brick red 
or even black in certain varieties to yellow or whitish. 

Tube surface : Rounded, cushion-like ; whitish at first, be- 
coming dingy; tube openings small and round, and rather 
long as seen in section. 

Spores : Reddish brown. 

Stem : Solid, dingy white, tapering slightly above, more or 
less thickly beset with brownish, fibrous, dot-like scales, 
this being the most pronounced botanical character for 
identification. 

Flesh : White or dingy in certain varieties, often changing to 
blue, brown, pinkish, or black where wounded. 

Taste: Negatively pleasant. 

Habitat: A common and widely distributed species, with 
many variations of color. Found in woods and shaded 
waste-places. 

Season: July-October. 



PLATE XXI 




Boletus Scaber. 



POLYPOREI 195 

gus. I have not found it necessary, and it is cer- 
tainly needless in a young and tender specimen. 

ROUGH -STEMMED BOLETUS 
Boletus scaber 

This is a very common mushroom in our woods 
all through the summer and autumn, in reasonably 
moist weather. It is figured in Plate 21. The 
cap of an average specimen expands four inches or 
more, is of a brown or brownish buff color, and vis- 
cid when moist. The pore -surface is dingy white, 
the tube orifices being quite minute and round  not 
so conspicuously angular or honey -combed as in 
other species  and with occasional reddish stains, 
presumably a deposit from the floating spores, 
which are tawny reddish. The flesh is dirty white, 
the stem solid, contracting upwards, and rough with 
fibrous brownish scaly points  whence the name 
''scaber'"  often arranged somewhat in vertical lines. 
Epicures fail to agree as to the esculent qualities of 
this mushroom. It is certainly inferior to the edulis. 

THE YELLOW- CRACKED BOLETUS 
Boletus subtomentosus 

The general contour of the present species  B. 
subtomentosus (Plate 22, fig. i)  resembles the fore- 
going, but it is easily distinguished by 
Specific the color of its cap and tube surface, 
qualities the pileus being usually olive, olive- 
brown, or red of various shades ; the 
color, however, does not extend to the flesh beneath 
the peeled cuticle, as in B. chrysenteron. Fig. 2. The 



196 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

surface is soft and dry  subtomentous  to the touch. 
Cracks in the cap become yellow, on which account 
this species is called the "yellow -cracked Boletus," 
in contradistinction to the red -cracked B. chrysen- 
teron. Its most important distinction, however, is of 
a chemical nature. 

The stem is stout, unequal, firm, yellowish, and 
more or less ribbed, occasionally tinted, minutely 
dotted, or faintly striped with the color of the cap. 
The taste of the flesh is sweet and agreeable. 
Palmer compares it to the flavor of walnuts. The 
tube surface is yellow or yellowish green. 
The blue and the tubes and yellowish flesh of cap 
stain and stem turn a rich peacock -blue im- 

mediately on fracture, becoming deeper 
moment by moment until the entire exposed portion 
becomes leaden  especially noticeable in mature 
specimens. The pore surface shows a similar blue 
stain whenever bruised. The tubes are angular- 
sided instead of round, and much larger than in the 
B. edulis ; spores ochre colored. 

This blue stain was formerly, and is even now, 

deemed sufficient with many mycophagists to place 

this mushroom on the black-list, but is believed by 

Mr. Palmer and Mr. Mcllvaine to be unwarranted 

as a stigma, assuming that fresh speci- 

unwat"anted ^^^^ ^""^ employed. The B. subtomen- 

stigma tosus is also among the eleven edible 

Boleti in the list of Dr. Curtis, given 

on a previous page, and the present author has 

habitually eaten the species with enjoyment and 

without unpleasant results. Fresh young specimens 



cJooLetud dubtomentodud 
cJSoletud ckzydentezon 



TL/ITE XXII 

YELLOW CRACKED BOLETUS 

1. Boletus subtomentosus 

Pileus: Diameter three to six inches. Color, varying in dif- 
ferent individuals, yellowish brown, olive, or subdued tan 
color; epidermis soft and dry, with a fine pubescence. 
Cracks in surface become yellow. 

Flesh: Creamy white in mature specimens, changing to blue, 
and at length leaden on fracture. 

Tube surface: Yellow or yellowish green, becoming bluish 
when bruised ; opening of tubes large and angled. 

Stem: Stout; yellowish; minutely roughened with scurfy 
dots, or faintly striped with brown. 

Spores: Brownish ochre. 

Taste: Sweet and agreeable. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 

GOLDEN-FLESH BOLETUS 

2. Boletus chpysenteron 

Pileus: Diameter two to four inches; convex, becoming 
more flattened ; soft to the touch, varying from light yel- 
lowish brown to bright brick red ; more or less fissured 
with red cracks and clincks. 

Flesh: Rich, bright yellow, red immediately beneath the 
cuticle. 

Tube surface: Olive-yellow, becoming bluish where bruised; 
tube openings rather large, angled, and unequal in size. 

Stem: Generally stout and straight; yellowish, and more or 
less streaked or spotted with the color of the cap. 

Spores: Light brown. 

Habitat: Woods and copses. 

Season : Summer and autumn. 



CD 
O 
t- 

m 

H 
C 

cyi 

(Z 
CO 

-i 
o 

m 



O 

cn 

c 

01 



n 

01 
m 
Z 
H 
m 

O 
Z 




> 

m 



X 
X 



POLYPOREI 20I 

with the least change of color would perhaps be the 
wiser choice for the novice. 

Another species having this peculiar property of 
" turning blue " even in a more marked degree, and 
named, in consequence, the B. cyanescens, though 
always heretofore considered poisonous, is now pro- 
nounced by certain prominent mycoph- 
Caution agists to be not only harmless but es- 
advisable culent. It is still advisable, however, 
to caution moderation in its use as 
food, if only on the ground of idiosyncrasy. The 
spores of this species are white, which, with the more 
minute tube openings, form a sufficient discrimina- 
tion from subtomentosus. The spores should be ob- 
tained by a deposit on black or dark -colored paper. 
The flesh is white also. Other blue-stain species, 
such as B. aiveolatus (Plate 24), are still considered 
with suspicion, presumably groundless. 

YELLOW-FLESHED BOLETUS 
Boletus chrysenteron 

Among the toadstools which tradition would sure- 
ly brand as poisonous on account of " bright color " is 
the common species whose name heads this para- 
graph, and which is illustrated in Plate 22, fig. 2. In 
its various shapes it suggests the preceding varieties. 
Its cap, however, is brownish red, often bright brick 
red. Flesh almost lemon  yellow, stained red just be- 
neath the cuticle, and not noticeably changeable on 
fracture. Tube surface yellowish green, turning blue 
or bluish green when bruised. Spores light brown. 
Tubes rather large, angular, and unequal in shape of 



202 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

aperture. Stem yellow, often brightly colored with 
the red of the cap. Chance cracks in its surface be- 
come red, whence the common name of the " Red- 
cracked Boletus." A species frequent in woods 
throughout the summer and autumn, and edible. 

In its brightly colored cap it might possibly be 
superficially confounded with the suspicious Boletus 
alveolatus of Plate 24. But the latter species is ea- 
sily distinguished by its rose-colored spores and red 
pore surface. 

CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 
Strobilomyces strobilaceiis 

Another aUied species, not especially famous for its 
esculent qualities, but which is, nevertheless, not to be 
despised, is here introduced on account of its espe- 
cially pronounced character (Plate 23) the cone-like 
Boletus, or, more properly, Strobilomyces. It is of a 
brownish gray color, its shaggy surface more or less 
studded with deep brown or black wool- 
Botanical ly points, each at the centre of a scale- 
characters like segment. The tubes beneath are 
covered by the veil in the younger 
specimens, but this at length breaks, leaving ragged 
fragments hanging from the rim of the pileus. The 
pore surface thus exposed is at first a grayish white, 
ultimately becoming brown. The substance of the 
fungus turns red when broken or cut. 

This very striking mushroom is found in woods, 
especially under evergreens. It frequently attains a 
diameter of four inches. Its spores are a deep 
brown, and a specimen selected at the stage when the 



^tzobiiomyced dtzoUlaceud 



TL/tTE XX in 

THE CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 

Strobilomyees strobilaceus 

Pileus : From two to four inches in diameter, covered with 
a soft gray wool drawn into regular cone -like points 
tipped with dark brown. 
Flesh grayish white, turning red when bruised. 

Pore surface : Grayish white in young specimen, and then 
usually covered with the veil; dark brown or almost 
black at maturity. Plate 38 shows a spore-print of this 
species. 

Spores : Very dark brown. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant. 

Odor: Sweet and mild. 

Habitat: Woods; singly or in small clusters. 



PLATE XXIII 




Strobilomyces Strobilaceus. 



POLYPOREI 207 

under surface 'vs flat will yield a most beautiful spore 
print if laid upon white paper and protected from the 
atmosphere, as described in a later chapter. 

A reproduction of one of these prints is shown in 
Plate 38, the white reticulation representing the con- 
tact of the tube orifices with the paper, 
Black each tube depositing its dot composed 
spore=prints of spores, the depth of color increasing 
in proportion to the time involved in 
the deposit. A single mushroom will yield a half- 
dozen or more prints. This fungus dries readily, 
and may be kept indefinitely. 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 
Boletus felleus  B. alveolatus 

In Plate 24 are shown two examples of the Boleti 
which have commonly been accounted poisonous  
B. felleus and B. alveolatus  and, in the absence of 
absolutely satisfactory assurance to the contrary, it is 
safer from our present point of view to consider them 

still as suspicious and to give them a 

Maligned wide berth. There can be no doubt 

species but that the popular condemnation of 

the Boleti has been altogether too 
sweeping. The gradual accession of many question- 
able species to the edible list of Messrs. Mcllvaine 
and Palmer and other daring mycophagists is a 
sufficient attestation of this fact. Thus subtomento- 
sus and cyanescens, already described, always hereto- 
fore branded as reprobates, are now redeemed from 
obloquy, and even the universal ill- repute of the B. 
satanas, with its pale pileus and blood -red pores, 



208 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

has not frightened the indefatigable Captain Mcll- 

vaine from a personal challenge and encounter with 

this lurid specimen, with the result that 

A daring ^^le formidable " Satanas " has proved 
pioneer ,  i i  r  

mycophagist anythmg but deservmg of its name  

not half so lurid as it has been paint- 
ed ; indeed, it has been even pronounced " the best 
of them all." Of course there's no telling to what 
extent the considerations of contrast, through sur- 
prise and the consequent demoralization on the con- 
tingents of the personal equation, may have influ- 
enced the captain's discrimination, but it certainly 
would appear, to put it negatively, that even the ill- 
favored world -renowned B. satanas has apparently 
been freed from aspersion as an enemy of mankind. 

But it is well for the amateur to avoid these notori- 
ous species absolutely until their edibility becomes 
universally accepted by the " professionals." 

The Boletus felleus (Plate 24, fig. i) is a very com- 
mon species. The pinkish substance of this Boletus 
is so extremely bitter when raw as to 

The bitter make it sufficiently repellent as food. 
Boletus Xhe color of its smooth cap varies from 
creamy yellow to reddish brown. Sub- 
stance white in young specimens, flesh color or pink- 
ish in older individuals. Tube surface white at first, 
becoming pinkish. Opening of tubes, angled. Stem 
usually more or less netted with raised lines towards 
cap. Spores pinkish or "flesh colored." Common 
in rich soil in woods. 

Boletus alveolatus.  Pileus smooth and polished, 
usually rich crimson or maroon, sometimes varied 



cJooietud aiveoiatud 



oietud feiteud 



VL/1TE XX/l^ 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 

Alveolate Boletus Boletus alveolatus 

Pileus: Smooth, polished; bright, deep crimson or maroon, 
occasionally mottled or marbled with yellowish ; three to 
six inches in diameter. 

Flesh: Firm and solid in substance; pale greenish or yellow- 
ish white, changing blue in fracture or where bruised. 

Tubes: Tube -surface reaching the stem proper; undulate 
with uneven hollows; maroon, the tubes in section being 
yellow beyond their dark red mouths. 

Spores: Yellowish brown. 

Stem : Usually disproportionately long, covered with depres- 
sions or oblong pitted indentations, with intermediate 
coarse network of raised ridges; red and yellow. 

Habitat: Woods; quite common. 

Bitter Boletus Boletus felleus 

Pileus : At first firm in substance, becoming soft and cushion- 
like; smooth, without polish, varying in color from pale 
ochre to yellowish or reddish brown; diameter three to 
nine inches. 

Flesh: White on immediate section, generally changing to 
slight pinkish or flesh color in fracture. 

Tubes : Tube-surface rounded upward as it reaches stem ; 
white at first, becoming dull pinkish with age, or upon 
being bruised. 

Spores : Flesh colored or dull pink. 

Stem : Usually quite stout, nearly as smooth as the cap, and 
somewhat lighter in color; more or less ridged with coarse 
reticulations, occasionally covered with them to its thick- 
ened base. 

Taste: Bitter. 

Habitat: Rich woods and copses, often about decaying 
trunks. 



PLATE XXLV 





Suspicious Boleti. 

BOLETUS ALVEOLATU5. 



B. FELLEUS, 



POLYPOREI 213 

with paler yellowish tints. Substance very solid, 
changing to blue on fracture or bruise. Tube sur- 
face deep dull crimson or maroon, this 
The crimson color not extending the full length of 
Boletus the pores, which are yellow a short dis- 
tance above their mouths. The stem 
is quite stout and tall for the size of the cap as 
compared with other Boleti. It is mottled in yellow 
and bright red or crimson, and conspicuously meshed 
with a net-work of firm ridges. The spores are yel- 
lowish brown. A conspicuous and easily identified 
species. 

THE VEGETABLE BEEFSTEAK 
Fistulina hepatica 

Our next member of the Polyporus order, or tube- 
bearing fungi, is a unique member of the fun- 
gus tribe, and cannot be mistaken for any other 
species. An example of this species is shown in 
Plate 25, the beefsteak mushroom  Fistulina he- 
patica. The specimen from which my drawing was 
made was found growing at the foot of a chestnut- 
tree, and was about nine inches across 
Botanical by about two in greatest thickness. Its 

characters upper surface was dark meaty red or 
liver colored, somewhat wet, or viscid 
and clammy, and its taste slightly acid. The under 
tube surface was yellowish white, and, as the section 
will show, was proportionately thin  the pores being 
about one-eighth of an inch in length. The solid 
red substance much resembled meat, and in sections 
was streaked with darker lines of red, as indicated in 
plate, somewhat suggesting a section of beet-root. 



214 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Though not common in my vicinity, I neverthe- 
less succeed in obtaining a few specimens during 
the season. It varies greatly in size and shape. 
M. C. Cooke, in his admirable "plain and easy" 
account of British fungi, says of it : " When old it 
affords an excellent gravy, and when 
Savory young, if sliced and grilled, would pass 
qualities for a good beefsteak. Specimens are 
now and then met with that would fur- 
nish four or five men with a good dinner, and they 
have been collected weighing as much as thirty 
pounds. The liver, or paler pinkish meaty color, 
clammy viscidity, and streaky section are sufficient 
guides in the recognition of this species." 

It is a highly prized article of diet on the Continent 
where the arts of the chef are ingeniously employed 
in endless recipes for its savory prep- 
Culinary aration, often, it would seem, with the 
preparation main object of obliterating as far as 
possible all trace of the delicate flavor 
of the mushroom per se. 

If the reader's experience correspond with the 
writer's in his mycological experiments " a la mode" 
he will gladly fall back to the plain plebeian method 
of simply broiling over the coals, or frying or roast- 
ing in the pan, with the least possible seasoning of 
pepper, salt, and butter, relying upon his mushroom 
to furnish the predominant zest and flavor. 

Other hints for serving this fungus are given in a 
later chapter. Besides the common name of " beef- 
steak mushroom," it is also known on the Continent 
as the " oak tongue," and " chestnut tongue." 



c/idtulincLD kepatica^ 



TL/ITE XX y 

THE BEEFSTEAK MUSHROOM 

Fistulina hepatica 

Pileus : Diameter, average specimen, about six inches, occa- 
sionally twice or three times this size; color varying from 
pinkish to dark meaty red; surface roughened with mi- 
nute papillae; soft and moist. 

Flesh: Light red, streaked with darker red; tender and juicy 
in young specimens; juice light red. 

Tube surface : Creamy in color ; tubes distinct from each 
other, crowded, very short, as shown in section opposite. 

Stem : Short or obsolete, growing at the side. 

Taste : Slightly acid. 

Habitat : On the stumps and trunks of oak and chestnut trees. 

Season: July-September. 



LP 

1 

C 
r; 

Z 
> 

rn 

m 

> 







X 
< 



POLYPOREI 



219 



THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 
Polyporus sulphureus 

Probably the most conspicuous member of our na- 
tive polyporei remains to be considered among the 
esculents, though until recently it was included in the 
black list, Dr. Curtis, of North Carolina, I believe, 
having first demonstrated its edibility, though pro- 
nouncing it merely " tolerable." 

The brilliancy of its sulphur-yellow and orange- 
salmon colors, in association with its large size, ren- 
ders it a most conspicuous object, especially from its 




habit of growing in dense clusters, often a number 
of such clusters in close contiguity upon a decay- 
ing stump or prostrate log, frequently so numerous 
and so crowded as to completely conceal the bark 



220 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



beneath, as shown in the accompanying figure, or 
completely covering a space of several square feet. 

There lies before me even as I write a fragment 
of a single cluster which I plucked yesterday from the 
trunk of an apparently healthy red -oak near my stu- 
dio, the remainder of the clump having been enjoyed 
as a special course in my dinner of last evening. In 
Plate 26 I present a portrait of this specimen, the 
well-named Sulphur Polyporus  Polyporus sulpJiu- 
reus. It may be found frequently from July till 
frost upon its favorite habitat of old trunk, stump, log 

water-trough, or fence- 
post, usually upon wood 
in the early stages of 
decay. A single clus- 
ter will often measure a 
foot in diameter through 
its very solid mass of 
thickened pulpy branch- 
es, its early and escu- 
lent stage being thus 
compact with the sub- 
divisions ascendins 
from their common 
thick stem, the mass somewhat suggesting a cauli- 
flower in shape, as shown in the illustration above. 

The general color at this tender stagie is pure sul- 
phur-yellow, this being the ultimate lower or spore 
surface now exposed by its upright position. The 
true upper surface or cap of the later eccentrically 
branched fungus is of a bright orange -salmon color, 
and is mostly concealed by the crowded growth. 




A YOUNG SPECIMEN 



POLYPOREI 221 

The specimen above alluded to would have weigh- 
ed about two pounds, and this central mass was so 
crowded as to afford scarcely a glimpse of the pink- 
ish-orange pileus surface. Upon showing my speci- 
men to a friend, I was informed that a certain log 
by the roadside about two miles distant was covered 
with this same kind of fungus, which 
^ ^th*^* seemed to be spreading all over the 

wilderness ground. Doubtless ten or twenty 

pounds of good nourishing food was 

thus going begging by the way-side, even in sight 

of a rural homestead, whose lord and master finds 

the butcher's bill a serious drain upon his resources. 

My plate shows a more open cluster of the fungus 
in its earlier stages, the only time when it is fit for 
food. In this condition it is tender, succulent, and 
juicy. In a few days the lobed fringes or fan -like 
divisions have lowered and spread out as widely as 
their crowded condition will permit, assuming the 
horizontal or even drooping position seen at C, and 
at D in the plate, as viewed from above. The pileus 
now being exposed, the fungus presents a deep 
orange -red or salmon color to the beholder, its sul- 
phurous -hued pore surface being turned beneath. 
Its texture at this adult stage is tough, fibrous, and 
almost woody, especially as it approaches the stem, 
and no one would think of eating it. 

The young specimen, however, is quite delicious 
and wholesome, and, considering that a single cluster 
will afford a dinner for a large family, its importance 
as a food product, especially to the farmer or peasant 
who finds economy a necessity, is thus manifest. 



222 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Tasted at the tip, it yields for the first moment of 
mastication an acid flavor recalling that of the Fistu- 
lina hepatica. This is followed by a sweet, slightly 
mucilaginous savor, which, in the realization that the 
species is wholesome, will at once prove an invitation 
to further experiment with the fungus as food. 

The texture of the young mushroom will be found 

to vary in its different parts, extremely tender at the 

thickened tuberculated tips, becoming 

Texture fibrous as the stem is approached, and 

and quality increasing in toughness, in fracture 
suggesting wood in appearance (see A, 
Plate 26), and unless the specimen is very young 
this portion will have to be excluded from the diet. 
Excepting this precaution it needs no preparation 
for the table, assuming, of course, that the substance 
is free fi-om grubs, which will presumably be the 
case, as I have never seen this fungus thus infested 
except in its more advanced woody growth. 

I have not as yet satisfied myself as to the best 
methods of cooking this polyporus. Fried in butter 
it has a tendency to become slightly tough in consist- 
ency, in its white stringy fibre as well as in taste 
closely suggesting the " white meat " of chicken. 
It lends itself well to a stew or ragout, 
Methods and might, perhaps, to a curry, the 

of cooking substance being cut or broken in small 

pieces and treated after the manner 

of meat under similar recipes. Following the hints 

contained in our last chapter, many methods of its 

culinary treatment will suggest themselves. 

The freely expanded specimen of this species is 



^Joiolypoziid duLpkuzeud 



TLATE XXyi 

THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 

Polypopus sulphureus 

In the mature specimen the growth is horizontal, spreading 
fan-like from stem, undulating with radiating flutings. 
Upper surface salmon orange or orange red, the edge 
being smooth and unevenly thickened with nodule -like 
prominences. In young specimen ascending, under yel- 
low surface outwardly exposed. 

Pore Surface : Bright sulphur yellow; pores very minute. 

Spores : Dingy white. 

Stem : Very short; a mere close attachment for the spreading 
growth. 

Taste : Slightly acid and mucilaginous when raw; after cook- 
ing somewhat suggesting white meat of chicken. 

Odor : Suggesting A. campestris. 

Habitat: On tree trunks, particularly oaks, often growing in 
very large clusters. 

A. Section of fungus showing fibre. 
C. and D. Matured specimen. 



PLATE XXVI 




POLYPORUS SULPHUREUS. 



POLYPOREI 227 

full of beauty, in its wavy fan-like form and flowing 
lines and flutings presenting a suggestive decora- 
tive theme, whether in the branches of 
'** . painting, sculpture, or the plastic arts. 
attributes The pores upon its sulphurous surface 
are so minute as to be scarcely visi- 
ble, but they shed a copious quantity of whitish 
spores. The pileus of the dried specimen is often 
more or less frosted with minute white crystals  
binoxalate of potash  and the spore surface dulls 
to the color of buckskin. 

Another remarkable feature about this fungus, if 
report be true, is its visibility by night, not merely 
from its pale yellow hue, but by an act- 
Luminous ual flood of bluish luminous phospho- 
by night rescent light, the environment of its 
haunt in the woods sometimes being 
lighted up by the effulgence from its ample mass of 
growth, a resource not uncommon among the fungi, 
and popularly known under the name of "foxfire." 
This phenomenon is frequently observable in woods 
at night, following rainy weather. An old stump 
or prostrate log will appear streaked with lines of 
brilliant light. If we approach and detach the loos- 
ened bark, its back and the decayed surface of the 
log thus exposed will prove ablaze in phosphores- 
cence, whose presence had scarcely been suspected 
but for the chance fissures which revealed the tell- 
tale streaks. I recall from my boyhood experience 
one such midnight episode as this in which, from 
the peculiar outline of the fallen trunk and the coin- 
cident circumstance of two approximate dots of brill- 



228 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



iant light suggesting the eyes of a huge puma or 
tiger, I stood spell -bound with momentar)^ fear, until 
I realized that the apparition was only a bugaboo 
after all. Approaching in the darkness, I soon laid 
hold of the rough head of the monster, and with a 
strong pull at the mass of bark of which it was com- 
posed, laid bare several square feet of blazing phos- 
phorescence whose only hint had gleamed through 
those two imaginary eyes, which proved to be holes 
which had disclosed the hidden luminous fungus. 
One authority describes a single mass of this phos- 
phorescence as extending the entire length of a pros- 
trate trunk thirty feet long. 

Hawthorne records bavins: made sood use of fox- 
fire upon one occasion when, left in the lurch at 
night by a canal-boat, he procured a phosphorescent 
flambeau which effectually lighted his path for sev- 
eral miles through the otherwise impassable woods. 





pqu 



Tff^HE species of fungi thus far described 
have been confined to the two great 
orders of the Agarics and the Polyporei, 
which include the large majority of our 
edible mushrooms and toadstools. 
The remainder of my selection in the 
present chapter comprises scattered ex- 
amples from four other orders: Hydnei (Spine-bear- 
ers), Clavariei (Coral-fungi), and the Trichogastres 
(Puff-balls), all belonging to the first great division 
of the Sporifera. The remaining two species consid- 
ered  Morel and Helvella, of the order Elvellacei  
are my only representatives of the second grand co- 
hort of the Sporidiifera, whose botanical characters 
are described on page ']']. 

In our previous examples the hymenium or spore- 
bearing surface has been disposed upon "gills," as in 
the Agarics, and on " tubes " in the Polypores. In the 
Hydnei group, which we will first consider, this dis- 
seminating surface is spread over spines or teeth. 

The examples selected from this order are both in 
the typical genus Hydnum ; and the object of this 



232 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



present book on fungi being especially the presenta- 
tion of only such varieties as are conspicuously self- 
placarded by some distinctive marks for identification, 
these delicious spine-bearing or "hedgehog" mush- 
rooms should of course be included  a genus which 




'^M/ 





SECTION OF A HYDNUM 



cannot be mistaken for any other, and which is tn- 
stantly recognized by its own peculiar character, al- 
ready mentioned, its spore surface being beset with 
soft, drooping spines instead of pores or gills. There 
are more than a score of species. The two more or 
less common with us are the Hydnum repandum, in 
outline suggesting an ordinary mushroom, and of 



ohydnum tepandum 



TL/ITE XXyil 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 

Hydnum repandum 

Pileus: Diameter two to five inches, generally irregular, with 
the stem off centre. Color varying from pale buff, the 
typical hue, to a distinct bricky red. 

Spines: Beneath the cap, one-quarter to one-third inch in 
length ; soft, creamy in tint, becoming darker in old spec- 
imens. 

Flesh: Creamy white, solid. 

Stem : Often set eccentrically into the cap ; proportionately 
thick and short. 

Taste : Slightly aromatic. 

Habitat: Woods or shaded places in rich soil, often in clus- 
ters. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



PLATE XXVII 







gp 




Hydnum Repandum. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 237 

which the above cut represents a section, and the H. 
caput-meduscE, or Medusa- head Hydnum. None of 
the group is accounted poisonous, though some of 
them are too tough to be acceptable as food. 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 
Hydnum repandum 

In this species, figured on Plate 27, bearing some- 
what the contour of an Agaric, the spines are all 
confined to the lower surface of the expanded cap. 
The general color of the upper surface is buflf, gen- 
erally very pale, occasionally almost white. The 
spines being of similar hue, this color 

Characters and the smoothness of texture have 
and qualities suggested the common popular English 
name of "doeskin mushroom." The 
flesh is firm and white or creamy, turning brownish 
when bruised. Its sweet but slightly pungent or 
peppery taste when raw disappears in cooking. It 
is quite frequent in our woods, and if fresh and free 
from insects may be eaten without the slightest hesi- 
tation. It is a species highly favored on the Conti- 
nent, where the surplus yield is habitually dried and 
kept for winter use. The hot flavor of the raw 
Hydnum was formerly sufficient to brand it as poi- 
sonous, Roques, I believe, having been the first to 
demonstrate its edibility, and Dr. Badham to dis- 
tinguish its mimetic flavor  " Hydna as good as oys- 
ters, which they somewhat resemble in taste." 

Cooke and Berkeley describe a variety of this mush- 
room having a distinctly reddish pileus  H. rufescens 
 and Prof. Charles Peck gives the species quite a 



238 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

range in its color gamut. " Its color may be pale buff, 

rusty yellow, pale red, or sienna color." The " pale 

buff " will doubtless be found to be the 

Variations most common. In the variety rufescens 

varieties the size is smaller and the form more 
symmetrical, but the general shape and 
fringe-toothed spore surface are sufficient to identify 
the typical species under any disguise of color. 

The cap is occasionally quite symmetrical, suggest- 
ing the outline of a Boletus in profile, but more com- 
monly is irregular and eccentric, with stem attached 
towards its side, as indicated in section on previous 
page. It may reach the diameter of five inches in 
a fine specimen. 

Its favorite haunt is the open woods, where it may 
be seen from the last of June until September, either 
singly or in clusters, lifting the dried leaves from 
their bed, or occasionally barely revealed beneath 
them. 

But the most important and savory of the entire 
group of Hydnei is the species following: 

THE MEDUSA HYDNUM 
H. caput-meduscz 

While driving through the White Mountain Notch, 
many years ago, I chanced upon a mass of cream- 
colored, fringy fungus growing upon a fallen beech- 
log by the side of the road. The fungus was then 
entirely new to me, and I lost no time in making 
a sketch of it, with notes. The growth covered a 
space possibly eighteen inches wide by eight in height, 
and I estimated it would weigh fully five pounds, its 



ahyd. 



num caput - medudce 



Tl.ylTF. XXyill 

THE MEDUSA MUSHROOM 

Hydnum eaput-medusse 

Spines: The long, soft spines cover the entire exposed por- 
tion of the fungus, which is disposed in fleshy branching 
divisions, each terminating in a "crown" of shorter, 
drooping teeth. The color is pale buff or dark creamy. 

Stem: Short, concealed beneath the growth. 

Taste : Sweet and aromatic, slightly pungent. 

Habitat: Trunks of trees, especially beech. 

Season : July to October. 




* /' 



Plate XXIX, HYDNUM CAPUT-MEnuSTE 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 245 

most marked feature being the dense growth of 
drooping spines. In my limited knowledge of edible 
fungi at the time, I cautiously left the specimen in 
the woods, afterwards to learn from 
A dinner Dr. Harkness, the mycologist, that I 
thrown away had " thrown away five pounds of the 
most delicious fungus meat known to 
the epicure." I have since found minor specimens 
many times, and can readily understand the enthu- 
siastic encomiums of my connoisseur friend as to its 
esculent qualities. 

This species (Plate 28) cannot be confounded with 

any other; it is of a dark creamy color, and usually 

grows sidewise upon dead beech wood 

Haunt and (Plate 29), sometimes in great profu- 

description sion, especially in the summer. The 
soft spines entirely cover the rounded 
branching protuberances of the fungus. The upper 
teeth are short and form a sort of " crown," falling 
from which the more and more elongated spines are 
firmly pendent beneath, somewhat suggesting as many 
heads of tiny skye-terriers in crowded convocation 
 or a tiny bleached " hedgehog," if you choose. 

A fungus bearing such conspicuous characteristics 
may be gathered and eaten without fear, assuming 
the specimen to be fresh and free from grubs. It will 
be found an aromatic and savory morsel, though sim- 
ply fried in butter and served on toast. 

One other species may be mentioned briefly, the 
H. coralloides, or Moss -mushroom, which is unfamil- 
iar to the writer, but which Curtis includes among 
his edible fungi. It may be found growing sidewise 



246 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" on old trunks of living trees," at first white, then 
yellowish, resembling when young the chou-fieur 
(cauliflower). From its base, which is 
Moss= tender and fleshy, spring a large num- 
mushroom ber of flexible branches, interlaced and 
assembled in tufts, bearing upon the 
summit of each of their divisions an expansion of 
long points or projections, at first straight, then pen- 
dent, and even curved under, and terminating in 
layers. Cordier says that it is " delicate food." 

Professor Peck speaks enthusiastically of this spe- 
cies. " It is found in woods, especially in hilly and 
mountainous districts, and occurs during rainy or 
showery weather from August to October. It is a 
pretty fungus, and very attractive to those who are 
neither botanists nor fungus eaters, and it is as good 
as it is beautiful. In our botanical expeditions in the 
vast wilderness of the Adirondack region, we were 
often obliged to camp in the woods several nights in 
succession. On such occasions this fungus some- 
times formed a luxurious addition to our ordinarily 
simple and sometimes limited bill of fare." 

The Hydnei may be cooked in the same manner 
as employed for the ordinary mushroom, or gathered 
and dried for winter use, a very com- 
"in^the" "^^'^ Custom on the Continent. Owing 
kitchen to the somewhat firm, compact sub- 
stance of these mushrooms they should 
be cooked slowly, in order to preserve their tender- 
ness. Berkeley recommends that they be "previously" 
steeped in hot water. Badhani especially favors the 
Hydnum stew, which he claims is " an excellent dish 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 247 

with a flavor of oysters." According to the same au- 
thority it yields also a " very good puree." The 
" oyster " flavor is recognized in many of the epicu- 
rean encomiums on this species. Various hints as 
to its culinary treatment will be found in a later 
chapter. 

THE CORAL OR CLUB FUNGUS 
Clavaria 

What frequenter of the summer and autumn woods 
has failed to observe that occasional dense cluster of 
creamy-colored, coral-like growth such as I have indi- 
cated at Plate 30, and who has thought to gather up 
its fragile, succulent mass with designs 

A neglected on the cook } I have seen clusters of 

feast this fungus so dense and ample as to 

strikingly suggest a huge cauliflower, 

and representing many pounds in weight. But in 

the absence of popular appreciation it must needs 

decay by "whole hundred-weights" in the woods. 

This is the Clavaria, or coral fungus  more literal- 
ly translated, though less appropriate to this partic- 
ular species, " club fungus"  a representative of a 
genus containing many edible species. 

The one presented in the Plate is Clavaria for- 
mosa, or the elegant Clavaria. It grows from four 
to six inches in height, is deep creamy yellow or pale 
orange buff in color, and slightly reddish at tips of 
branches. It has a sweet taste, a fragile, brittle con- 
sistency, and white substance; its spores are pale- 
ochre colored. Curtis gives thirteen edible native 
species. Among them are the following, which hard- 



248 



EDIBLE -MUSHROOMS 



ly call for severe technical description, as the entire 
sroup are doubtless edible : 

The /rwg "coral fungus"  Clavaria coraUotdes  
of our woods resembles C.formosa in general shape, 



&.".. 




IHE WHITE CORAL FUNGUS 



but its color is ivbite, or perhaps pale gray. Its thick 
stem is hollow, and its uneven, crowded branches are 
brittle and flesh -white. Its odor is 
Clavaria like that of the Agaricus campcstris, 
corailoides and it possesses a sweet, pleasant fla- 
vor. Cordier recommends it as eatable 
even when raw. This species is in great favor in 
Germany, Switzerland, and Italy, where it is desic- 
cated for winter use. 



(Si 



avazia^ jozmodo^ 



TLylTE XXX 

THE CORAL FUNGUS 

\ 
Clavaria formosa 

Thickly branched from a stout pale base, the dense branchlets 

being tipped with two or three minute teeth. 
Color : Saffron yellow. Tips generally darker and more rosy. 
Flesh: White. 
Spores: Ochre-tinted. 
Taste : Sweet, tender, and delicate. 
Height: Four to six inches. 
Habitat: Woods. 



PLATE XXX 











Clavaria Formosa. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 255 

Clavaria fastigiata is a somewhat dwarf variety, 
usually found on lawns and pastures, seldom reach- 
ing a height of more than two inches. 
Clavaria In general aspect it resembles Fig. 3 in 
fastigiata Plate 31. It is of a yellow color, very 
densely branched from its short, slender 
stem close to the ground, the branches mostly termi- 
nating at the same height. 

All of the above-mentioned species, except C./or- 
mosa, have white spores, and while none of the genus 
is considered poisonous, though some 
White=spored are SO bitter and of such tough con- 
species edible sistency as to make them unfit for food, 
it is generally conceded among the au- 
thorities that all white-spored Clavarias are certainly 
edible. The spores are easily obtained by simply 
laying the fungus upon a dark surface and excluding 
the air, as directed in a later chapter. 

The various forms assumed by the Clavarei are 
indicated in Plate 31. 

Fig. I is C.flava; 2. C. stricta ; 3. C. umbrina ; 4. 
C. rugosa ; 5. C. amethystina. Any specimen bearing 
resemblance to any of these in form, and which is 
found to have white spores, may be eaten without 
fear. 

The Clavaria forms a most inviting relish by the 
simple process of frying in butter, with seasoning to 
taste. They have the advantage of being quite free 
from "fungus -worms," and in the larger species are 
occasionally so plentiful that a half -bushel may be 
gathered in a few moments. 

Another species bearing the general shape sug- 



256 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

gested in Plate 31, fig. i, is the C. botrytis. It has a 
thick, fleshy trunk and swollen branches. Its sub- 
stance is very brittle; color creamy-yellow, with red- 
tipped branchlets. It is found in woods. 

THE MOREL 

Morchella esculenta 

In decided contrast to any of the foregoing fungi, 
and of unmistakable aspect, is the famous Morel, 
Morchella esculenta (Plate 32). 

The Morel belongs to a cohort of fungi known 

as the Sporidiifera, in which the spores are enclosed 

in bag-like envelopes, in distinction to the Sporifera, 

in which the spores are naked and ex- 

Botanical posed, as shown in Plates 35 and 36. 

characters These cysts, or bags, or asci, which re- 
semble the cystidium in Plate 35, and 
in the family of Ascomycetes, to which the Morel 
belongs, each contains about eight spores, which are 
finally liberated by the bursting of the tip of the 
bag, after the manner of a Puff-ball. 

In the Morel the hymenium or spore-bearing sur- 
face is crowded with these cysts, and covers the 
entire exposed conical and pitted surface of the 
mushroom. 

Description is hardly necessary with its portrait 
before us. No other fungus at all resembles it ex- 
cept those of the same genus, and inasmuch as they 
are all edible, we may safely add to our bill of fare 
any fungus which resembles our illustration. The 
Morel has long been considered as one of the rarest 
of delicacies, always at a fancy premium in the 



(ylootckeiiac> edcutentao' 



TLATE XXXn 

THE IVIOREL 

Mopchella esculenta 

Pileus : Oval, elliptical, or round in outline ; diameter one inch 
to three inches in a large specimen ; hollow. Color pale 
yellowish brown, varying to greenish ; surface more or 
less regularly honeycombed with deep depressions. 

Stem : Hollow, dingy white, united to the base of pileus. 

Taste : Sweet and pleasant. 

Habitat: Woods, orchards, and shaded grassy places. 

Season : May and June. 



PLATE XXXII 













^ 



^% 



/  




MORCHELLA ESCULENTA. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 261 

markets  a bon-mot for the rich, a prize for the peas- 
ant. I could fill all tny allotted space with the 
delicate schemes of the chefs in its preparation for 
the table. 

Dr. Badham's recommendation, among my list of 
recipes, is worth a trial for the sake of novelty, if 
nothing more. The hollow shape of our Morel thus 
suggests a variation on the conventional methods of 
cooking. 

The color of the Morel in its prime is grayish- 
green, occasionally brownish. It is most commonly 
found in orchards, and is said to favor spots where 
charcoal or cinders have been thrown. 

HELVELLA 
Helvetia crispa 

One of the most strikingly individual of all the 
mushrooms, and one which could not possibly be 
confounded with any other kind, is the example pict- 
ured in Plate 33. With this mere portrait as our 
guide, we might safely classify our specimen  at least, 
as to its genus ; and inasmuch as no one of the 
group is poisonous, and all are edible 
Specific with varying degrees of esculence, we 
characters can make no mistake even in our vent- 
ures as amateur mycophagists. When, 
therefore, we find a fungus with such a peculiar, ir- 
regularly fluted and hollowed stem, itself hollow 
within, or tubular, and surmounted with a rather thin, 
flexible, wavy cap, resembling our illustration, we may 
know that we have a specimen of Helvella. If this 
example happens to be creamy above and ochre- 
14 



262 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

colored beneath, it is the Helvella crispa of our Plate. 
The specimen here shown is somewhat larger than 
in nature. Other species are differently formed and 
colored, one of them having the cap dark ash-colored 
or even black. There are three species occasionally 
met with, of which the first, H. crispa, is the most 
common and perhaps the most delectable. 

The peculiar texture of these mushrooms permits 
of their ready desiccation, and in Britain and on the 
Continent they are commonly strung on strings and 
dried for future use, in which condition they have 
been compared to dried " wash-leather " in texture. 
The famous aristocratic Morel {Mor- 
Dried ckella esculenta), already described, so 

mushrooms prized as food in Europe, and to which 
the Helvella is closely allied, has a sim- 
ilar irregular, pitted, hollowed, and netted surface 
over its entire conical or globular gray cap, and the 
same texture. Most competent judges claim that 
the delicious Morel possesses no advantages over 
the more plebeian Helvella as a delicacy for the 
table. The flavor is identical, and the other qual- 
ities of the two mushrooms make them equally 
desirable. 

The readiness with which they may be dried, and 
thus kept indefinitely, is another distinct advantage 
which the Morels and Helvellas possess over the 
ordinary gilled Agarics, many of which must be gath- 
ered in their young prime and immediately eaten.  

There are numerous ways of serving these fungi, 
among which is the common method of frying with 
butter or oil, and variously seasoning with onion, 



eivettao czidpoD 



TL/1TE XXXIII 

THE WHITE HELVELLA 

Helvella crispa 

Pileus: Two to three inches in diameter; wavy or curled, 
reflexed at edges, often puci<ered towards centre; white 
or pale creamy; somewhat leathery in texture in older 
specimens. 

Spore surface: On underside of cap, ochraceous. 

Stem : White, more or less furrowed with vertical hollows. 

Taste: Similar to Morel, to which it is closely allied. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 







o^.;<, 






^4, .... 






- .-^r 




4{tdP" 



1 '', i 



I 



Helvella Crispa. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 267 

garlic, herbs, etc., according to taste, and serving on 
toast, or with crisped bread-crumbs. Our chapter on 
recipes will suggest other more elaborate methods. 

PUFF-BALLS 
Lycoperdacea 

A detailed discrimination of the Puff-balls is hard- 
ly necessary here, and I will therefore omit it. While 
I am not inclined to go so far as to contend, as was 
the quaint habit of old Dr. Culpeper, in his Herbal, 
in which he was wont similarly to elude description 
of an herb, affirming that "he were a fool indeed 
who does not know this plant "-or words of similar 







f ' - 
 / 

SECTION OF PUFF-BALL-Eaklier and Later Stages 

import  it is perfectly safe to say that if there is one 
fungus more than another with which the populace 
is specifically familiar it is the Puff-ball. 
]~In these fungi, of which there are many species, 
the spores are incased within the white or dingy 
peridium or more or less globular case  gasteromy- 
cetecs. from gaster, a stomach. The interior spore 
substance is at first white and firm in structure, at 



268 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

length peppered with gray, both conditions being in- 
dicated in accompanying cut, and ultimately black 
or brown, after which the outer case becomes dry 
and papery, and soon bursts at the summit, liberat- 
ing its clouds of spores with the slight- 
spore-cloud est zephyr, or, later, becoming dislodged 
dissemination from its slender anchorage to the soil, 
is whisked before the breeze envelop- 
ed in its spore-smokej Fries, the eminent fungol- 
ogist, has reckoned the number of these spores in a 
single Puff-ball at ten millions  presumably a con- 
servative estimate. 

But it will surprise most people to know that the 
plebeian Puff-ball of our pastures is good for some- 
thing besides the kick of the small boy. 

There are a number of species of the Puff-ball, 
and none of them is known to be poisonous. 

I have indicated an arbitrary group in Plate 34 
ranging in shape and size from the small white 
globular variety of an inch in diameter, L. saccaium, 
and the pear-shaped L. gemmatum, to the giant past- 
ure species, which may frequently at- 
Varions tain the dimensions of a foot-ball or 
species a bushel basket. In its larger dimen- 
sions it is more spreading in shape, 
being somewhat wider than high. All the Puff-balls 
are edible if gathered at the white stage  Le., white 
pulp; those of yellow or darker fracture being ex- 
cluded, as the fungus in this later stage is not con- 
sidered fit for food. 

Of the esculent qualities of the larger species, Lyco- 
perdon giganteum, we may judge from the statement 



gzoup of Jouff-baitd 



TL/ITE XXXiy 

A GROUP OF PUFF-BALLS 

Lycoperdacese 

The group opposite represents three species. The largest, 
L. giganteum; the pear-shaped, L. gemmatum; and the small, 
round L. saccatum. 

L. giganteum. The largest species. Diameter ten to twenty- 
five inches; often more spreading in shape than speci- 
men shown; surface smooth; stem hardly apparent; color 
dingy white in the edible state, at which time the solid 
flesh is also white. Spore dust, at maturity, yellowish 
brown. Grows in fields and pastures. 

L. gemmatum^ Stem prolonged and tapering from above, sug- 
gesting the specific name pear-shaped; color dingy white; 
surface covered with deciduous warts; substance, young 
state, white ; spore dust brown ; height two to three 
inches. J| 

L. saccatum. Stemless; white; setting close to the ground; 
one to two inches in diameter; surface covered with loose, 
warty granules ; substance, young state, white ; spore dust 
brown. 

These and all other Puff-balls are edible in the young condi- 
tion when the pulp is white. 




(*iK 



> 1,, ^ 






'<-ife*ji 



A Group of Puff-Balls. 

LYCOPERDON GIQANTEUM. L.GEMWATUM. L.SACCATUM. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 273 

of a connoisseur: " Sliced and seasoned in butter and 

salt, and fried in the pan, no French omelette is half 

as good in richness and delicacy of 

Esculent flavor." M. C. Cooke, the British au- 

qualities thority, says of it : " In its young and 

pulpy condition it is excellent eating, 

and indeed has but few competitors for the place of 

honor at the table." Other epicurean suggestions 

will be found in a later page. Occasionally in its 

plenitude, especially during August and September, 

single clusters will be found which would afford a 

meal for a large family. 

Other species, more or less frequent, are the Z. 
separans, whose outer epidermis cracks off in flakes 
at maturity ; L. cyathiforme, or cup-shaped Lycoper- 
don, a large species with distinctly purplish smoke 
so familiar to us all, the final cup -shaped remnant 
of its case having suggested its name. The larger 
specimens will be found the more fully flavored. 

There is but one danger which would seem to be 
possible with reference to the use of the Puff-ball as 
food within the restrictions already 
Closing words given, and that is, the remote contin- 
of caution gency  assumable only on the suppo- 
sition of most careless observation  of 
confounding the white ball with the globular condi- 
tion of the Amanita (see Plate 2, fig. i), or other 
fungi of the same deadly group, which are similarly 
enclosed in a spherical volva in their early stages. 

But inasmuch as this spherical period of the Ama- 
nita is usually spent underground and out of sight, 
and the merest glance at its contents would at once 



274 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

reveal the folded form of the enclosed mushroom, it 
would hardly seem necessary to warn the intelligent 
reader. But " once warned, twice armed ;" and for 
absolute safety the tyro would do well to open every 
specimen, and be sure of its even, white, homogeneous 
substance before turning it over to the cook. 

There are a number of other esculent species of 
fungi as easily available and enjoyable as those al- 
ready described, but the scheme of the volume would 
hardly warrant their inclusion. Even though the ele- 
ment of danger is practically eliminated, so far as the 
identification of the foregoing fungi is concerned, it 
is still wise for the amateur to proceed with caution 
until he has absolutely learned the individual species 
in their various forms of development. 






^mi2f>ore'pzLnU 



UR common dusty Puff-ball, floating its faint 
trail of smoke in the breeze from the ragged flue 
at its dome-shaped roof as from an elfin tepee, or per- 
haps enveloping our feet in its dense purple cloud as 
we chance to step upon it in the path, is familiar 
to every one. To the mycophagist connoisseur, on 
the alert for every delectable fungus morsel for his 
fastidious appetite, the Puff-ball is in- 
Puff-ball deed pleasantly familiar, though a spec- 
spore-clouds imen in such a powdery stage as the 
above is apt to bring only regrets that 
its discovery has been thus delayed, for in its earlier 
firm white stage he knows it at his table as a most 
delicate entree of " mock omelet." 

The old-time country physician gathered its pow- 
dery bag and carefully preserved it for another pur- 
pose, its spongy, dusty contents having been a time- 
honored remedy as a styptic, or for the arrest of 
hemorrhage from wounds. But by no class of the 
community perhaps is it so enthusiastically welcomed 
as by the small boy, to whom it is always a challenge 
for a kick and a consequent demonstration of smoke 
worthy of a Fourth-of-July celebration. 



278 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A week ago this glistening gray bag, so free with 
its dust-puff at the slightest touch, was solid in sub- 
stance and as white as cottage cheese in the fracture. 
In this condition, sliced and fried, it would have 
proven a veritable delicacy upon our table, quite sug- 
gesting an omelet in consistency and flavor, and in 
size also, if perchance we had been favored with 
one of the larger specimens, which frequently ap- 
proaches the dimensions of a football. 

But in a later stage this clear white fracture would 
have appeared speckled or peppered with gray spots 
(see page 271), and the next day entire- 
Development ly gray and much softened, and, later 
of spores again, brown and apparently in a state 
of decay. But this is not decay. This 
moist brown mass by evaporation becomes powdery, 
and the Puff-ball is now ripe, and preparing for 
posterity. 

Each successive squeeze, as we hold it between our 
fingers, yields its generous response in a puff of 
brown smoke, which melts away apparently into air. 
But the Puff-ball does not thus end in mere smoke. 
This vanishing purple cloud is com- 
Buoyant posed of tiny atoms, so extremely mi- 
spore=atoms nute as to require the aid of a powerful 
microscope to reveal their shapes. Each 
one of these atoms, so immaterial and buoyant as to 
be almost without gravity, floating away upon the 
slightest breath, or even wafted upward by cur- 
rents of warm air from the heated earth, has with- 
in itself the power of reproducing another clump of 
Puff-balls, if only fortune shall finally lodge it in con- 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 279 

genial soil. These spores are thus analogous to the 
seeds of ordinary plants. The number of these vital 
atoms or spores in a single Puff-ball is almost past 
computation. Fries, however, an eminent fungologist, 
went to some pains to estimate this 
Number number, and, referring to a certain puff- 
of spores ball, says : " The spores are infinite. In 
a single individual of Reticularia max- 
ima I have reckoned ten millions so subtle as to 
resemble thin smoke as light as if raised by evapo- 
ration, and dispersed in so many ways  by the sun's 
attraction, by insects, by adhesion and elasticity  that 
it is difficult to conceive the spots from which they 
could be excluded." 

We have seen the myriad-fold dispersion of its po- 
tential atoms in the cloud of spore-smoke, but who 
ever thinks of a spore -cloud from a 
^"Tom*'"*' mushroom or a toadstool? Yet the 
mushrooms method of the Puff-ball is followed by 
all the other fungi, with only less con- 
spicuousness. The Puff-ball gives a visible salute, 
but any one of the common mushrooms or toadstools 
will afford us a much prettier and more surprising 
account of itself if we but give it the opportunity. 
This big yellow toadstool out under the poplar-tree 
 its golden cap studded with brownish scurfy warts, 
its under surface beset with closely plaited laminae or 
gills  who could ever associate the cloud of dry 
smoke with this moist, creamy -white surface.'' We 
may sit here all day and watch it closely, but we shall 
see no sign of anything resembling smoke or dust, 
albeit a filmy emanation is continually eluding us, 



28o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

floating away from beneath its golden cap, the -eager 
breeze taking such jealous care of the continual 
shower that our eyes fail to perceive a hint of it. 

Do you doubt it ? You need wait but a few mo- 
ments for a visible demonstration of the fact in a 
pretty experiment, which, when once observed, will 
certainly be resorted to as a frequent pastime in lei- 
sure moments when the toadstool or 
Catching mushroom is available. 
the spores Here is a very ordinary-looking spec- 

imen growing beside the stone steps 
at our back door perhaps. Its -top is gray, its gills 
beneath are fawn -colored. We -may shake it as 
rudely as we will, and yet we shall get no response 
such as the Puff-ball will give us. But let us lay 
it upon a piece of white paper, gills downward, on 
the mantel, and cover it with a tumbler or finger- 
bowl, so as to absolutely exclude the least admission 
of air. At the expiration of five minutes, perhaps, 
we may detect a filmy pinkish -yellow tint on the 
paper, following beneath the upraised border of the 
cap, like a shadow faintly lined with 
A white. In a quarter of an hour the 

spore=portrait tinted deposit is perceptible across the 
room, and in an hour, if we carefully 
raise the mushroom, the perfect spore-print is revealed 
in all its beauty  a spore -tint portrait of the un- 
der surface of the mushroom  a pink -brown disk 
with a white centre, which indicates the point of con- 
tact of the cut stem, and white radiating lines, rep- 
resenting the edges of the thin gills, many of them 
as fine and delicate as a cobweb. 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 



281 



Every fresh species experimented with will yield 
its surprise in the markings and color of the prints. 

These spore -deposits are, of course, fugitive, and 
will easily rub off at the slightest touch. But inas- 




'"mf^ 



\~ 



"'^'^r* 



> 



MAKING THE PRINT 



much as many of these specimens, either from their 
beauty of form or exquisite color, or for educational 
or scientific purposes, it will be desirable to preserve, 
I append simple rules for the making and " fixin 
of the prints by a process 
15 



which was original with 



282 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the writer, and which he has found most effective 
for their preservation. 

Take a piece of smooth white writing-paper and 
coat its surface evenly with a thin solution of gum- 
arabic, dextrine, or other mucilage, and 
Making allow it to dry. Pin this, gummed side 

and fixing -^ 111 

spore-prints uppermost, to a board or table, prefer- 
ably over a soft cloth, so that it will lie 
perfectly flat. To insure a good print the mushroom 
specimen should be fresh and firm, and the gills or 
spore-surface free from breaks or bruises. Cut the 
stem off about level with the gills, lay the mushroom, 
spore - surf ace downward, upon the paper, and cover 
with a tumbler, finger-bowl, or other vessel with a 
smooth, even rim, to absolutely exclude the slightest 
ingress of air. After a few hours, perhaps even 
less, the spores will be seen through the glass on 
the paper at the extreme edge of the mushroom, their 
depth of color indicating the density of the deposit. 
If we now gently lift the glass, and with the utmost 
care remove the fungus, perhaps by the aid of pins 
previously inserted, in a perfectly vertical direction, 
without the slightest side motion, the spore -print in 
all its beauty is revealed  perhaps a rich brown cir- 
cular patch with exquisite radiating 
Various colors white lines, marking the direction and 
of spores edges of the gills, if an Agaric; perhaps 
a delicate pink, more or less clouded 
disk, here and there distinctly and finely honey-comb- 
ed with white lines, indicating that our specimen is 
one of the polypores, as a Boletus. Other prints will 
yield rich golden disks, and there will be prints of 




Hymenium or Gills 



Section of Hymenium 



Cystidium 




Spore-print 



Plate XXXV. SPORE-SURFACE OF AN AGARIC 




Spore-print 
Plate XXXVI. SPORE-SURFACE OF POLYPORUS {BOLETUS) 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 287 

varying red, lilac, green, orange, salmon -pink, and 
brown and purple, variously lined in accordance with 
the nature of their respective parent gills or pores. 

Occasionally we shall look in vain for our print, 
which may signify that our specimen had already 
scattered its spores ere we had found it, or, what is 

more likely, that the spores are invisi- 
invisible ble upon the paper, owing to their white- 
prints ness, in which case black or colored 

paper must be substituted for the white 
ground, when the spores will be beautifully manifest 
in a white tracery upon the darker background. One 
of these, from the Amanita muscarius, is reproduced 
in Plate 37. If the specimen is left too long, the 
spore-deposit is continued upward between the gills, 
and may reach a quarter of an inch in height, in 
which case, if extreme care in lifting the cap is used, 
we observe a very realistic counterfeit of the gills of 
the mushroom in high relief upon the paper. A 
print of this kind is of course very fragile, and must 
be handled with care. But a comparatively slight 
deposit of the spores, without apparent thickness, will 
give us the most perfect print, while at the same 

time yielding the full color. Such a 

Fixing print may also be fixed by our present 

the print method SO as to withstand considerable 

rough usage, by laying the paper upon 
a wet towel until the moisture has penetrated through 
and reached the gum. The spores are thus set, and, 
upon drying the paper, are securely fixed. Indeed, 
the moisture exuded by the confined fungus beneath 
the glass is often sufficient to set the spores. 



288 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A number of prints may be obtained successively 

from a single specimen gathered at its fruitful prime. 

To those of my readers interested in the science of 

this spore -shower I give illustrations of examples of 

the two more common groups of mushrooms  the 

Agaric, or gilled mushroom, and the Polyporus, or 

tube -bearing mushroom. The entire 

Agarics surface of both gills and pores is lined 

and Poiypores with the spore -bearing membrane or 

hymenium, the spores being produced 

in fours from each of the crowded sporophores, and, 

where all air is absolutely excluded, permitting them 

to fall directly beneath their point of departure as 

indicated; in the case of the Agaric, in radiating 

lines in correspondence with the spaces between the 

gills ; and in Polyporus, directly beneath the opening 

of each pore, whose inner surface is lined with the 

sporophores, as shown in Plate 36. 

This dust-shower is continuous in nature after the 
perfect ripening of the spores, but it is almost impos- 
sible to conceive of such an entire absence of moving 
air under natural conditions as to permit even a 
visible hint of the spore-shower to appear beneath its 
respective fungus. An exception to this rule is 
sometimes to be seen in fungi of mass- 
spore-mist ^^ growth  as, for example, beneath 
Agaric such a cluster as that shown on page 
147. Indeed, a correspondent recently 
described such a cluster as " enveloped in a mist of its 
own spores floating away in the apparently still air." 

In Plate 38 is shown a spore-print with a peculiar 
elongated tail. Such was the specimen which I ob- 




Plate XXXVIL SPORE-PRINT OF AMANITA MUSCARIUS 




Plate XXXVIll. ACTION OF SLIGHT DRAUGHT ON SPORES 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 



293 



served when lifting the pasteboard box which had 
been placed above the mushroom to absolutely ex- 
clude the air. The explanation was simple when I 
discerned that the tapering elongation pointed direct- 
ly to a tiny hole in the box barely 

Affected larger than a knitting-needle. 
by a pinhoIe  . ^ i  i 

draft The greatest portion of the myriads 

of spores are wafted to the ends of the 
earth, and form an important element in the so-call- 
ed " dust " so unwelcome to the tidy housewife. A 




FUNGUS SPORES 



sticky glass slide exposed to the deposit of such dust, 
and placed beneath the microscope, will reveal many 
fungus spores. The air is full of them. 



294 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A few of the various characteristic forms of these 
fungus-spores is shown on a previous page, somewhat 
as a powerful microscope would reveal them to us. 

But it is only as they chance to alight individually 
in congenial conditions for growth that they will con- 
sent to vegetate. Thus billions of them are doomed 
to perish without progeny. These whims of habitat 
among the fungi are almost past belief. 
Whims Here, for instance, is a tiny Puff-ball 
of habitat hardly larger than the period on this 
page. It bursts at the summit, and 
sheds its puff of microscopic spores, so light as to 
be without gravity, floating and settling everywhere 
upon the earth, but only as they chance to alight 
upon the spines of a dead chestnut- burr of two years' 
decay will they find heart to grow. Such is the 
fastidiousness of the little white mushroom, whose 
globular caps dot the spines of the decaying chest- 
nut-burrs in so many damp nooks in the woods. 

In closing my chapter a glance at the further ec- 
centricities of choice will not be inopportune. I ap- 
pend a few taken at random from the 
Curious pages of Berkeley, which lie open be- 
fastidiousness fore me. In addition to the general 
broad distinctions of habitat as " woods," 
" rotten wood," " old pastures," " dunghills," we find 
such fastidious selections as the following, each by a 
distinct species with its own individual whim : " Dead 
fir-cones, sawdust, beechnuts, plaster walls, old fer- 
menting coffee-grounds, wheat ears, cinders, dead oak 
leaves, old linen, wheat bread, hoofs, feathers, decayed 
rope, fat, microscopic lenses, and damp carpets." ' 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 295 

A complete list of these exclusive habitats of fungi 
would well fill a large book, and might indeed almost 
involve the " index " of our botanies and zoologies, 
to say nothing of organic substances generally. 

Plants, both living and dead, are favorite habitats 
for various species. The old stems of the common 
European nettle, according to Cooke, becomes the 
host of about thirty distinct species of the minute 
fungi. The toadstool itself is often the victim of 
other minor species. Insects are a frequent prey. 
The wasp succumbs to its special fungus parasite, 
which has formed a home within its body, and the 
common house-fly is seen in the toils 
House-fly of its similar enemy, as it hangs help- 
fungus less by its proboscis upon the window- 
pane, enveloped in the winding-sheet 
of white mould from the fungus which has done its 
work within the insect's body. Spiders, locusts, 
ants, cicadae, and presumably all insects, are subject 
to similar fate from their especial parasitic fungi. 
The fungus thus often comes to the rescue of afiflicted 
humanity in regulating the undue increase of insect 
pests. Here is a pretty, slender, orange, pointed mush- 
room growing in the moss. We pluck it from its 
bed, and it brings to the surface a chrysalis, with the 
dead moth distinctly seen within the cavity from 
which its roots spring. When we next come upon 
this species in the moss, we may confidently predict 
the discovery of this same species of chrysalis. 

A similar long, slender fungus springs from the 
head of a caterpillar in New Zealand, and at length 
almost absorbs the insect's body. A similar species 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



upon another caterpillar is carefully collected and 
desiccated by the Chinese, with whom it forms an im- 
portant article in their native pharma- 
copoeia, and, moreover, it seems, may be 
perhaps appropriately included among 
the " edibles," for are we not assured by 
these expert and indiscriminate epicures of the chop- 
sticks that this species " makes an excellent dressing 
for roast duck." 



Edible 

caterpillar 

fungi 




Concerning: "Mushromes and Tadstoles" 




I '.-<] 



mouthed and daintie wantons 
who set such store by their 
tooth ; take so great delight 
to dress this only dish with 
their own hands, that they 
may feed thereon in conceit and cogi- 
tation all the while they be handling 
and preparing the same, furnished in 
this their businesse with their fine 
knives and razors of amber and other 
vessels of silver about them. 

"I for my part also am content to 
frame and accomodate myself to their 
humourous fancie and will shew unto 
them in generall certaine observa- 
tions and rules how to order and use them 
that they may be eaten with securitie." 



PuNius Secundus. 




HE earnest plea of Dr. Badham for 
this neglected  rather, I may say, 
spurned  spontaneous harvest of 
fungi is well worth emphasizing in our pages ; afford- 
ing, as it does, a most suggestive commentary on the 
universal popular ignorance, so far as America is con- 
cerned, of the economic value of this perennial of- 
fering of Nature, which abounds in such luxuriance 
throughout our continent. 

" I have this autumn myself," he writes, " witnessed 
whole hundred -weights of rich, wholesome diet rot- 
ting under trees ; woods teeming with 
The spurned food, and not one hand to gather it ; 
harvest and this, perhaps, in the midst of a po- 
tato-blight, poverty, and all manner 
of privations, and public prayers against imminent 
famine. 

" I have, indeed, grieved, when I have reflected on 
the straitened condition of the lower classes this year, 
to see pounds innumerable of extempore beefsteaks 
growing on our oaks in the shape of Fistulina hepat- 
ica; Agaricus fusipes, to pickle, in clusters under 
them ; Puff-balls, which some of our friends have not 

i6 



300 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

inaptly compared to sweetbreads for delicacy of their 

unassisted flavor ; Hydna, as good as oysters, which 

they somewhat resemble in taste; ^gar- 

^t*^ . icus deliciosus, reminding us of tender 
comprehensive , , , . , , i -r i i, 

fungus lamb kidneys ; the beautiful yellow 
Chantarelle, that kalon kaigothon of diet, 
growing by the bushel, and no basket but our own 
to pick up a few specimens on our way ; the sweet, 
nutty-flavored Boletus, in vain calling himself ' edulis ' 
where there was none to believe him ; the dainty 
Orcella; the Agaricus heterophyllus, which tastes like 
a crawfish when grilled ; the Agaricus ruber, and 
Agaricus virescens, to cook in any way and equally 
good in all  these are the most conspicuous of the 
irouvailles." 

His remarks applied to Great Britain, and reflected 
a popular disdain of fungi, which presented a marked 
contrast to the appreciation of the 
A reliable mushroom of the Continent, where the 
cop fungus had become the much -sought 

bonne bouche of the epicure, and the wel- 
come reliance of the peasant poor, to whom it afforded 
a perfect substitute for the desideratum of animal 
food commonly denied them by their circumstances. 

This plea of Dr. Badham's is even more pointedly 
pertinent to the America of the present than it was 
for his own country at the time ; for 
The fungus while, in Great Britain, the mycophagist 
specialist epicure was even then occasionally to 
be met with, in America to-day this par- 
ticular gastronomic specialist is locally conspicuous, or 
rather notorious, from his very rarity, being popularly 



RECIPES 301 

considered as a sort of dangerous crank, who should 
be conservatively muzzled by the authorities, for the 
safety of himself as well as the public. 

In the absence of any adequate popular guide to 

this great food resource, it may be hoped that this 

present work may afford not merely an 

Mycophagist occasional dainty entree to the menu 

missionaries of the luxurious epicure, but  a far 

more important consideration  a means 

of bringing the fungus within reach of the less-favored 

masses as a never-failing dependence for their daily 

food. 

Dr. Badham's further pertinent remarks are worth 
quoting, in this connection, with emphasis : " As 
soon as the reader is initiated in this class of dain- 
ties he will, I am persuaded, lose no time in making 
the discovery known to the poor of his neighbor- 
hood ; while in so doing he will render an important 
service to the country at large, by instructing the in- 
digent and ignorant in the choice of an ample, whole- 
some, and excellent article, which they may convert 
into money or consume at their own tables, when 
properly prepared, throughout the winter." 

Concerning the lavish plenitude of the fungus as 
a food resource, a passage from a letter of the late Dr. 
Curtis, of North Carolina, to the Rev. J. M. Berke- 
ley, of England, many years ago, is 
A suggestive most significant : " Of this latter qual- 
statement ity I had become so well convinced 
that, during our late war, I sometimes 
averred  and I doubt if there was much, if any, exag- 
geration in the assertion  that in some parts of 



302 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the country I could maintain a regiment of soldiers 
ve months in the year upon mushrooms alone." A 
statement which doubtless will appear extravagant to 
those who have been accustomed to consider the one 
common "mushroom" as the only esculent among 
the fungi. 

As already mentioned previously in my pages, the 

fungus affords a perfect substitute, chemically and 

gastronomically, for animal food. The 

Nutritious analysis of its substance is almost iden- 

properties tical with that of meat, being especially 
rich in nitrogenous elements, while its 
flavor and aroma and texture, as served for the table, 
occasionally so closely imitate that of flesh food as 
to be actually deceptive. Even in its raw state it 
would occasionally seem to suggest the same animal 
similarity. As an illustration, I recall the following 
striking instance of gastronomic discrimination in a 
carnivorous appetite, as exemplified in a full-grown 
pet hawk which I had tethered near my country 
studio. 

One day, returning from a toadstool hunt, she ob- 
served me approaching with a basketful of mush- 
rooms. They were mostly of the fleshy 

^, , ^ ^. Boleti species. Supposing: that I was 
discriminating , '^ '^'^^ o 

hawlc brmgmg her food, she became very de- 
monstrative in her actions, eying me 
most eagerly, and uttering that peculiar low squeal 
which seemed to emanate from the region of her 
appetite. As she approached me, thinking to satisfy 
her that the basket contained nothing suitable for 
hawk-food, I tossed her one of the largest of the 



RECIPES 303 

mushrooms, which she almost caught in mid-air in 
her talons. Such was the strength of her clutch that 
the fungus was scattered in fragments upon the 
ground, when what was my surprise to observe the 
bird proceed from one fragment to another in a most 
ravenous manner, exhibiting all those tactics habitual 
to the hawk with live prey  the lowering and out- 
spreading of the wings and tail against the ground, 
the raising of the neck feathers, and the same de- 
fiant, defensive mien which she had so often shown 
on previous occasions when a mouse or a squirrel 
had been the object of her solicitude. Having eaten 
the first fungus, I threw her another, which she de- 
voured . with the same eagerness, and another, and 
another, until she had taken five, and her crop was 
as large as a pint cup ; after which she betook her- 
self quietly to her roost on the rail near by, evidently 
under the supposition that she had broken her fast 
with a sumptuous meal of rabbit or squirrel flesh. 

The Agaricus ostreahis is known as the " vegetable 
oyster "  its flavor in a stew quite closely simulating 
the flavor of the bivalve ; another fun- 
Fish, flesh, gus as the " beefsteak mushroom "  not 
and fowl without good reason ; the Polyporus 
sulphureus distinctly suggests the flesh 
and flavor of chicken ; others, as we have seen, re- 
semble kidneys and sweetbread; while the Agaricus 
ulmarius of the elm would seem entitled to its popu- 
lar name of "fish-mushroom," from the following inci- 
dent related by Palmer : 

" I recently sent some elm - tree mushrooms to a 
family where the youngest member is but twenty-one 



304 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

months of age. At breakfast-time she noticed the 
strange dish, and her father gave her a small piece. 
' More fish ! more fish !' was the instant response." 

Indeed, the vegetarian may humor his humane 

whim, and still enjoy fish, flesh, and fowl at his table 

without a qualm of conscience in a 

A boon to menu which, in aroma, quality, and fla- 
the vegetarian yor, might well deceive his unconverted 
omnivorous brother, only at last to win 
his encomium to the glory of the multum in parvo 
fungus. The possibilities in this direction are sug- 
gested in my appended hints for a menu for the 
vegetarian. 

In my previous pages I have made occasional refer- 
ence to the more simple methods of preparation of 
certain species of fungi for the table, but have re- 
served extended reference to culinary treatment for 
the present chapter. 

For the benefit of those of my readers who may 

desire to " humour their delicate fancie " to the full, 

with the result of a more or less com- 

Fungi in plete disguise of the characteristic 

the kitchen mushroom flavor through the arts which 
are supposed to "assist nature," I ap- 
pend a selected list of favorite recipes for such al- 
leged appetizing sophistication of the mushroom. 
Many of them will be found equally applicable to 
other species than that for which they are nominally 
recommended, especially if such species should pos- 
sess the same general character as to consistency. 

The author confesses that he is not in thorough' 
sympathy with the general trend of these ingeniously 



RECIPES 305 

contrived lures to dyspepsia, whose contemplation 

may well awaken a sympathetic appreciation of that 

antique philosophic . epigram, " There are as many 

diseases as cooks "  the discriminating impeachment 

of Seneca regarding the " chef a la moder 

But doubtless the author will be overwhelmingly 

overruled in his hypercriticisms, and will remain one 

of a select discriminating minority in 

De gustibus continued genuine enjoyment of his 

non est , -i   

dlsputandum mushrooms, while the majority of his 

proselytes to mycophagy will in vain 
endeavor to detect the mushroom flavor in the oblit- 
erating disguise concocted in the kitchen or insti- 
gated by the mischievous "receipt-book." 

Indeed, the prominence of the spice, clove, nut- 
meg, thyme, tarragon, and pepper ingredient in most 
of these " favorite recipes," to say nothing of the 
champagne, onion, garlic, lemon-juice, cayenne, an- 
chovy, etc., with which the delicately flavored mush- 
rooms are so generally sophisticated in these culi- 
nary preparations, would seem to warrant our scep- 
ticism as to the value of the epicurean testimony 
as to the " superior flavor," of the various " Cham- 
pignons," " Chantarelles," etc., so confidently recom- 
mended. The juice of a lemon, or oil of lemon-peel, 
will absolutely annihilate the peculiar characteristic 
" funo-us " flavor of the average mushroom. The true 
mushroom epicure, it would seem, should value his 
mousseron not as an absorbent vehicle for the gas- 
tronomic conveyance of highly seasoned sauce or 
dressing, but for the unique individual flavor which 
differentiates the fungus from other kinds of food. 



306 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But we are all allowed to differ in matters of taste, 
and each must decide for himself or herself what par- 
ticular disguise is most palatable. 

The recipes which follow are from various sources, 
most of them modifications based upon the earlier 
epicurean devices of Mrs. Hussey and Dr. Badham, the 
pioneers of English mycophagy, and of Roques, Per- 
soon, Paulet, Cordier, and other noted European au- 
thorities. I am indebted, also, to the works of M. C. 
Cook, Worthington Smith, W. Robinson, and J. A. 
Palmer for occasional selections from their recom- 
mended recipes. 

RECIPES FOR MUSHROOM COOKING 

In all cases the mushroom should be fresh, clear 
and free from the insect indications mentioned on 
page 131. Some epicures recommend that the speci- 
mens be also washed in cold acidulated water and 
dried in a cloth ; for what reason is not clear, unless 
the mushrooms are sufficiently dirty to require such 
cleansing process. 

I Mushroom Soup 

" Take a good quantity of mushrooms, cut off the 
earthy ends and wash them ; stew them, with some 
butter, pepper, and salt, in a little good stock until 
tender; take them out and chop them up until quite 
small ; prepare a good stock as for any other soup, 
and add it to the mushrooms and the liquor they have 
been stewed in. Boil all together and serve. If white 



RECIPES 307 

soup be desired, use the white button-mushrooms and 
a good veal stock, adding a spoonful of cream or a 
little milk, as the color may require."  W. Smith. 

Other mushrooms may be substituted for the ordi- 
nary Campestris above mentioned. A very good 
mock oyster soup may be prepared from the mush- 
rooms Hydnum and the Agaricus ostreatus. 

2 Puree of Mushrooms 

" To make a puree of mushrooms, select such as are 
of a globular shape, called ' button-mushrooms ;' wash 
them in cold water and wipe them dry ; chop them as 
fine as possible and press them in a cloth ; put them 
in a stewpan with a little butter and pepper; let 
them stand over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in lemon-juice and add jelly broth, ac- 
cording to the quantity of the mushrooms. Stew 
until reduced to the consistency of pea-soup, and 
serve with meat, fish, or poached egg."  Cooke. 

3 Mushroom Stew 

Put about two ounces of butter into a stewpan ; 
when thoroughly melted add a teaspoonful of salt, 
and from a quarter to half the quantity of black pep- 
per, according to taste, and a small bit of mace or a 
pinch of powdered nutmeg. Having a pint of the 
mushrooms in readiness, put them in the pan, cover 
closely, and stew them till they are tender, which will 
probably require from twenty minutes to half an 
hour. The addition of flour stirred in cream or 
milk, by which the stew is thickened, is by some 
considered a desirable addition. This recipe is given 



3d8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with special reference to the Campestris, but will be 
found suitable for other mushrooms of the same con- 
sistency. 

4 Broiled Mushrooms on Toast 

Remove the stems, and place the mushrooms in 
a double wire broiler over the coals, with the gill sides 
down, for about two minutes, or even less if the speci- 
mens are small. The broiler should then be turned, 
and the cooking should proceed for two minutes more; 
towards the end of that time the juicy gills should 
be sprinkled with salt and pepper, a small piece of 
butter being finally melted in each as they are served 
on the hot toast. By this simple method all the 
natural juices of the mushroom are retained and the 
true aroma and flavor is conserved. Bacon toasted 
over the mushrooms is considered by some to im- 
prove the flavor. 

5 Mushrooms a la Provencal 

Take mushrooms of good size, remove the stems 
and cut their tops in halves or quarters, which, with 
the chopped stems, should then be immersed in olive 
oil, spiced with salt, pepper, and a piece of garlic, for 
about two hours. They should then be put into a 
stewpan with oil and cooked over a brisk fire. A 
variation of this method includes the addition of 
chopped meat and the yolks of two eggs, the whole 
being slightly browned in the oven before serving. 

6 Mushrooms a la Creme 

" Trim and rub half a pint of button-mushrooms ; 
dissolve two ounces of butter rolled in flour in a stew- 



RECIPES 309 

pan ; then put in the mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, 
a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful each of white 
pepper and powdered sugar; shake the pan around 
for ten minutes, then beat up the yolks of two eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and add by degrees 
to the mushrooms. In two or three minutes you can 
serve them in the sauce."  Worthington Smith. 

7 Mushroom Ragout 

" Put into a stewpan a little stock, a small quantity 
of vinegar, parsley and green onions chopped up, 
salt, and spices. When this is about to boil, the 
mushrooms being cleaned, put them in. When done 
remove them from the fire and thicken with yolks of 
eggs."  Worthington Smith. Another recommends 
that the stew should be poured upon toast, or upon 
crusts of bread previously fried in butter. 

8 Stewed Hushrooms on Toast. 

Put a pint of mushrooms into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of butter rolled in flour, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a blade of 
powdered mace, and half a teaspoonful of grated lem- 
on ; stew until the butter is all absorbed, then serve 
on hot toast as soon as the mushrooms are tender. 

9 Champignon 

" Cut in small pieces and seasoned it makes an ex- 
cellent addition to stews, hashes, or fried meats ; but 
it should be added only a few minutes before serving, 
as the aroma is dissipated by over-cooking. It is the 
mushroom used in the French a la mode beef-shops 



3IO EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

in London."  Badham. They may be cooked in any 
of the methods employed for the ordinary mushroom 
already noted. 

10 Chantarelle Stew 

This mushroom, being of rather tough consistency, 
requires long and slow cooking. 

" Cut the mushrooms across and remove the stems ; 
put them into a closely covered saucepan with a little 
fresh butter, and sweat them until tender at the low- 
est possible temperature. A great heat always de- 
stroys the flavor."  Mrs. Hussey. 

II Hydnum Stew 

Roques, the French mycologist, says of the Hyd- 
num repandum : " The general use of this fungus 
throughout France, Italy, and Germany leaves no 
room for doubt as to its good qualities." But very 
little has been said of its companion species, the //. 
caput-medus(s, described in the foregoing pages, and 
which is certainly greatly its superior in texture and 
flavor. Dr. Harkness considers it one of the most 
delicious morsels among the whole fungus tribe. 

Both species, containing naturally less moisture 
than most mushrooms, are easily dried. When fresh 
they should be soaked in water and cooked slowly 
at low temperature and frequently basted, the dried 
specimens being first soaked in tepid water until their 
original form and pulpy consistency are nearly re- 
gained. 

In a puree the Hydnum makes an appetizing dish, 
with a slight flavor of oysters. 



RECIPES 3 1 I 

Roques recommends the following recipe for a 
stew: "Cut the mushrooms into pieces and let them 
steep in warm water for twenty minutes. Then al- 
low them to simmer for an hour in a pan with butter, 
pepper, salt, and parsley, with the addition of beef or 
other gravy." 

Mrs. Hussey recommends stewing in brown or 
white sauce ; in the latter case it will closely suggest 
" oyster sauce." 

Another mushroom  the Lactarius deliciosus  
stewed in a similar manner closely suggests the 
flavor of lambs' kidneys. 

12 Roast Mushrooms 

Mr. Palmer recommends the following : " Cut the 
larger specimens into fine pieces and place them in a 
small dish, with salt, butter, and pepper to taste ; put 
in about two tablespoonfuls of water, then fill the dish 
with the half-open specimens and the buttons ; cover 
tightly and place in the oven, which must not be 
overheated, for about ten minutes. The juice of the 
larger mushrooms will keep them moist, and, if fresh, 
yield a most abundant gravy." 

13 Baked Russula 

See that the mushrooms are free from dirt and grit 
on tops and stems, or rinse in cold water, afterwards 
wiping them dry and shaking off the water from the 
gills; make a mince of the stems, bread-crumbs, 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little butter or oil; 
pile this upon the gills ; place the mushrooms in a 
shallow dish in a hot oven and baste them frequently 



312 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with the melted butter or oil. In about fifteen minutes 
they will be ready to serve. 

The Oyster Mushroom or its congener, the Agar- 
icus ulmarius, might both be treated by this method, 
the oyster or fish -like flavor of these species thus 
affording a distinct second course for our menu. 
Either of these Pleurotus species may also be treated 
so as to closely suggest an escalop of oyster or fish. 

14 Baked Procerus 

Remove the stems ; do not rinse the mushrooms 
unless they are soiled, and this species is usually con- 
spicuously clean ; put some slices of toast in a well- 
buttered pie-dish, and, with a little melted butter or 
cream poured over them, lay in the mushrooms ; 
sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of 
minced parsley which has previously been rubbed 
with onion or garlic ; cover the dish with a plate 
and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes and serve 
in the dish. The aroma is thus conserved, and, upon 
being released at the table, will prove a most savory 
appetizer. 

15 Cottagers' Procerus Pie 

The following appetizing recipe is recommended 
by Robinson : " Cut fresh Agarics in small pieces, 
cover the bottom of a pie-dish with small, thin slices 
of bacon, and place the mushroom fragments upon 
them, with the addition of salt and pepper; upon 
this place a layer of mashed potatoes, following again 
with other similar layers of bacon, mushrooms, and 
potatoes, until the dish is filled, the last layer of 



RECIPES 313 

potato answering for a crust; bake in the oven for 
half an hour, and brown before a brisk fire." 

Doubtless many other species of mushroom would 
lend themselves equally well to this particular treat- 
ment. 

16 Baked Qambosus 

" Place some fresh -made toast, nicely divided, on a 
dish, and put the Agarics upon it ; pepper, salt, and 
put a small piece of butter on each; then pour on 
each one a tablespoonful of milk or cream, and add a 
single clove to the whole dish; place a bell-glass or 
inverted basin over the whole ; bake twenty minutes, 
and serve up without removing the glass until it comes 
to the table, so as to preserve the heat and aroma, 
which, on lifting the cover, will be diffused through 
the room."  Cooke. "A great quantity of gravy 
comes out of it, mingled, in the case of a good 
specimen, with osmazome, which tastes very much 
like the similar brown exudation on the surface of a 
roast leg of mutton."  Robinson. 

17 Fried Mushrooms on Toast 

Place a pint of mushrooms in a pan, with a piece 
of butter about the size of an egg ; sprinkle in a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper; 
when the butter is nearly absorbed, thicken with 
fresh butter and flour and pour upon hot toast, which 
should be served hot. 

18 flushrooms with Bacon 

Fry a few rashers of nice streaky bacon in the 
pan in the usual manner; when nearly done add a 



314 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

dozen or so of mushrooms, and fry them slowly until 
they are cooked. In this process they will absorb 
all the fat of the bacon, and, with the addition of a 
little salt and pepper, will form a most appetizing 
breakfast relish. 

19 Mushrooms en Caisse 

The following is recommended as a dainty by 
Worthington Smith : " Peel the mushrooms lightly 
and cut them into pieces ; put them into cases of 
buttered paper, with a bit of butter, parslej, green 
onions, and shallots chopped up; salt and pepper; 
dress them on a gridiron over a gentle fire and serve 
in the cases." The cases might be made of pastry. 

20 Hungarian Soup of Boleti 

" Dry the Boleti in the oven ; soak the mushrooms 

in tepid water, thickening with toasted bread till the 

whole be of the consistency of a puree ; then rub 

through a sieve, throw in some stewed boleti, boil 

together, and serve with the usual condiments."   

Paulet. 

21 Boletus Fritters 

Persoon recommends this method of treatment of 
the Boletus as very appetizing: The fritters may be 
prepared in the method ordinarily adopted, the slices 
of the mushroom being dipped in batter and brown- 
ed either in the frying-pan or in the hot fat, after the 
manner of the doughnut. 

22 Beefsteak flushroom 

This species is claimed to resemble meat in flavor 



RECIPES 3 I 5 

more than any other fungus. The gravy, in quality 
and color, would certainly deceive a most discrimi- 
nating palate. Like many of the Polyporei, it is com- 
paratively slow in maturing, occasionally, it is said, 
requiring two weeks ere it reaches its prime, when it 
may acquire a large size. 

It should be gathered before its maturity to insure 
tenderness, though the older, tougher individuals, cut 
in pieces and cooked separately, will yield a quantity 
of rich red gravy, to be added to the dish of more 
tender specimens. " If it is not beef itself," says Mrs. 
Hussey, " it is sauce for it." " If sliced and grilled it 
would pass for a good beefsteak," says Cooke, with 
truth. Mrs. Hussey recommends that it should be 
sliced and macerated in salt, the deep- red liquor 
which exudes should be put hot into a dish with a 
little lemon-juice and minced shallots, and a broiled 
steak deposited in it. It may also be variously 
stewed or fricasseed with excellent results, and af- 
fords a delicious soup with savor closely suggesting 
beef broth or consomme clair. A "beef -steak" pie 
made on the foregoing recipe prescribed for the 
Procerus would doubtless prove a most appetizing 

entree. 

23 The Oyster Mushroom 

" It may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, 
and is equally good in all," says a distinguished con- 
noisseur in soups, stewed, broiled, curried, baked, 

in the form of an escalop, patties, or vol-au-vent, or 
fried with butter in the form of fritters. In all cases 
where the fungus itself is to be eaten, the specimens 
should be young and tender, the older individuals, 
17 



3l6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

if free from insects, might be used for soups. See 
Recipe 13. 

24 Polyporus Stew 

The beautiful sulphur-colored Polyporus described 
in my previous pages when stewed closely suggests 
the tender white meat of chicken or veal, and might 
lend itself to various deceptive dishes, as, for instance, 
soups, croquettes, fricassees, or patties. 

Only the tender young plant should be employed, 
and a little experience will suggest various appetizing 
methods of treatment. 

25 Ragout of Morels or Helvella 

The following is an old-time recipe of Persoon: 
" Pick and clean your fungi and cut them in two ; 
wash and dry them well by wiping; then put them in 
a stewpan with butter, or a piece of ham or bacon ; 
place them over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in a little lemon-juice, give a few turns, 
and then add salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; 
cook slowly for an hour, pouring on at intervals small 
quantities of beef gravy or jelly broth to prevent burn- 
ing; when done, thicken with yolks of eggs." The 
lemon-juice is omitted by many, who consider it a pos- 
itively unpalatable as well as unwholesome ingredient. 

26 Stuffed Morels 

Dr. Badham's work contains the following recipes 
from Persoon, which, from the peculiar construction 
of the fungus, affords a contrast to ordinary methods: 
" Choose the freshest and whitest Morels ; open the 



RECIPES 317 

Stalk at the bottom ; wash and wipe them well ; fill 
with veal stufiing, anchovy, or any rich farce you 
choose, securing the ends and dressing between 
slices of bacon. Serve with a sauce." 

27 Morelles a la Italienne 

Here is another skilful compound from the same 
source : " Having washed and dried the mushrooms, 
divide them across ; put them on the fire with some 
parsley, scallion, chervil, burnet, tarragon, cives, a 
little salt, and two spoonfuls of fine oil ; stew until 
the juice runs out, then thicken with a little flour. 
Serve with bread-crumbs and a squeeze of lemon." 

28 Clavaria Stew 

Badham gives the following recipe for the Clavaria, 
or coral fungus : " After sousing in tepid water and 
wiping perfectly clean, the fungus should be ' sweat- 
ed ' over a slow fire, afterwards to be strained and the 
liquor thrown away ; stew for an hour ; add salt, pep- 
per, cloves, and parsley to taste, masking with plain 
stock and dredging occasionally with flour. Thicken 
with yolks of eggs and cream." 

29 Fried Clavaria 

The simple process of browning in butter or oil in 
the frying-pan, with the addition of pepper and salt, 
and serving hot on buttered toast or with fried eggs, 
will be found a most palatable method of treating 
this fungus. For those who are willing to sacrifice 
the characteristic fungus flavor to a savor more pro- 
nounced, the Clavaria is also said to be delicious 



3l8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

when fried with onions or with curry in the usual 

method. 

30 Puff=ball 

Fritters, Omelettes, Sweetbreads, and Souffle 

As already described, the Puff-balls in their white- 
pulp condition are esculent and afford a delicate rel- 
ish. The species Giganteus sometimes attains a 
diameter of nearly two feet, and where such a speci- 
men or even much smaller ones are situated at an 
easily available distance, we may profit by the hint 
of Vitadini, the Italian mycologist : " Cut off a slice 
at a time, cutting it horizontally, and using great care 
not to disturb its growth, to prevent decay, and thus 
one may have a fritter every day for a week." Dr. 
Curtis calls this species the "Southdown of mush- 
rooms." His opinion of its merits as food will be 
shared by others who give it a trial : " It has a deli- 
cacy of flavor that makes it superior to any omelette 
I have ever eaten. It seems, furthermore, to be so 
digestible as to adapt itself to the most delicate stom- 
ach." Mrs. Hussey, the pioneer English authority, 
recommends the following recipe : " First remove the 
outer skin; cut in slices half an inch thick; have 
ready some chopped herbs, pepper, and salt ; dip the 
slices in the yolk of egg, and sprinkle the herbs upon 
them ; fry in fresh butter and eat immediately." 

The extreme tenderness and delicacy of the Puff- 
ball thus cooked resembles a spufBe, and suggests 
many possibilities of appetizing variations and com- 
binations, as, for exam.ple, with jelly, in the form of 
an entremet or dessert. By many the flavor of the 
Puff-ball has been compared to "sweetbread," and 



RECIPES 319 

doubtless so cooked and served would afford an 
agreeable variation in the menu. Indeed, it may be 
prepared in a variety of ways, as suggested for other 
species, but from its peculiar consistency is particu- 
larly adapted to frying in the pan. With chopped 
ham or thinly sliced smoked beef it might furnish a 
good substitute for the ham-omelette or frizzled beef. 
Another addition to our entremets might be availed 
of in the "jelly mushroom," Hydnum, or Tremelodon 
gelatinosum, which is not described in this volume. 
It is eaten raw, either plain or with milk and sugar, 
and is said to be of most delicate flavor. 

31 nushroom Salad 

According to Cooke, the Beefsteak mushroom 
before mentioned is employed as an entremet in Vien- 
na, the fresh fungus being cut in thin slices and eat- 
en as a salad. The fresh, crisp young Russula mush- 
rooms thus served also furnish a very appetizing 
relish, with the usual varieties of dressing as in the 
various sauces, mayonnaise, French dressing, etc. 
The Polyporus sulphureus having been boiled and 
allowed to cool might furnish a deceptive " chicken " 
salad. Doubtless other species of mushrooms  Cla- 
varia for example  would lend themselves acceptably 
to this method of serving. Cordier recommends this 
latter species as " appetizing even when raw." 

32 Pickled riush rooms 

Select the mushrooms in the round-button condi- 
tion and before expansion; immerse them in cold 
water for a few moments, then drain them ; cut off the 



320 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Stalks, and gently rub off the outer skin with a moist 
flannel dipped in salt ; boil the vinegar, adding to 
each quart two ounces of salt, half a nutmeg grated, 
a dram of mace, and an ounce of white pepper-corns; 
put the mushrooms into the vinegar for ten minutes 
over the fire ; then pour the whole into small jars, 
taking care that the spices are equally divided ; let 
them stand a day, then cover them. 



33 riushroom Catsup 

Large quantities of mushrooms of various species 
are annually consumed in Europe in the manufacture 
of catsup. Following is one of the many favorite 
foreign recipes : 

Place the Agarics, of as large a size as you can 
procure, layer by layer in a deep pan; sprinkle each 
layer with a little salt; the next day stir them well 
several times, so as to mash and extract their juice; on 
the third day strain off the liquor, measure and boil 
for ten minutes, and then to every pint of liquor add 
half an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce 
of bruised ginger-root, a blade of mace, a clove or two, 
and a teaspoonful of mustard-seed ; boil again for 
half an hour, put in two or three bay-leaves, and set 
aside until quite cold ; pass through a strainer, and 
bottle ; cork well and dip the ends of the bottle in 
melted resin or beeswax ; a very little Chili vineo"ar 
is an improvement, and some add a glass of port- 
wine or of ale to every bottle. Care should be taken 
that the spice is not so abundant as to overpower 
the true flavor of the mushrooms. 



RECIPES 321 

34 Dried Mushrooms 

It will often happen in a normal fungus season that 
the production will exceed the possibility of consump- 
tion, and thousands of pounds of delicious mushrooms 
will thus be left to decay in their haunts. 

The process of drying mushrooms for winter use is 
in most extensive practice by the peasantry of Europe 
and Britain, who thus find an all-the-year-round de- 
pendence upon mushroom diet. 

With most species this process of desiccation is so 
simple that it is recommended, in the confident belief 
that, once tried, the winter mushroom will hereafter af- 
ford a frequent relish upon many a board and will well 
repay the slight trouble in their summer preparation. 

In most of the Agarics  notably the Campestris, 
Procerus, Champignon, Russula, Chantarelle  simply 
threading on strings and hanging in the sun and 
wind, or festooned above the kitchen range, will be 
sufficient to reduce them to complete dryness in a 
few hours. Indeed, some of these, such as the Pro- 
cerus and Champignon, dry spontaneously in their 
haunts, and may be thus gathered. 

In the instances of more fleshy fungi, such as the 
Boleti, Polyporei, and Coprinus, more rapid desicca- 
tion is necessary. By exposing them in the sun on 
a tin roof or absorbent paper the moisture is rapidly 
evaporated. They might also be suspended above 
the kitchen range in a wire basket and thus quickly 
dried. In Boleti the drying is facilitated by the 
removal of the whole pore layer, which is easily sep- 
arated from the cap. 



322 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The Clavaria and Morel are very simply dried, even 
in ordinary house temperature. Strung upon threads 
and suspended in the sun or near the fire they would 
very quickly be reduced to absolute dryness. 

Mushrooms thus treated seem to retain their aro- 
ma; in Procerus, Clavaria, Morel, Helvella, and " Fairy- 
ring" being intensified above that of their moist con- 
dition and most appetizing. 

The desiccated specimens should be kept in a dry 
place, with good circulation of air, or enclosed in her- 
metically sealed tin boxes ; in the latter case being 
occasionally examined to insure against mould by 
possible absorption of moisture. 

When desired for use they are simply soaked in 
tepid water, which, by gradual absorption, causes the 
specimens occasionally to assume almost their orig- 
inal dimensions and juicy character, when they should 
be treated as recommended for the fresh mushrooms. 



For the benefit of the vegetarian, or the curiously 
or experimentally inclined, I append a few sugges- 
tions apropos of a menu a la mode, in which the fun- 
gus might be employed with good effect as a rival to 
the familiar established prandial delights. Each se- 
lection is numbered with reference to its particular 
descriptive or suggestive paragraph in the preceding 
pages of the chapter. 

A feast based upon these recommendations, re- 
enforced with appropriate adjuncts  the " mother "- 
born vinegar, the fungus -leavened loaf, the fungus- 
foaming beaker  might cumulatively prove a per- 
suasive plea for the creed of vegetarianism. 




dm 



lyxxxKxxxx 

I 



enu ! 

V 



Potoges 

Consomme de boeuf clair, 22 
Potage a la puree d'huitres, i, n, 13 
Potage a la puree de boeuf, 22 
Potage a la puree de volaille, 24 

|)oissons 

C6telettes de poisson  Sauce aux 

champignons, 13 
Escalope de poisson, 13 

i|ors-5'oeut)res 

Croquettes de ris de veau, 24 
Bouchees au poulet, 24 

Filet de boeuf aux champignons, 22, 23 

(fntrees 

Omelette aux jambon, 30 
Rognons d'agneau, n 
Pate de biftecks, 22 
Beignettes d'huitres, 13, 23 
Huitres en curry, 23 
Petits vols-au-vent d'huitres ou bou- 
chees d'huitres, 13, 23 
Fricassee de poulet, 24 

(Entremets 

Salad de Russula au mayonnaise, 31 

Salad de Fistulina, 31 

Salad de Clavaria, 31 

Salad de volaille, 31 




SDessert 

Omelette soufHe au gelee, 30 
Pouding soufHe, 30 
Gelee de Hydnum, 30 



CeBG3GO350GOGGOejf3GGOC5^^^OOe>-- 




cJd ibliocj tap ky 

AMERICAN 

1. Geological and Natural History Survey of North Carolina. 
Part III. Botany. Containing a catalogue of the indigenous and 
naturalized plants of the State. By Rev. M. A. Curtis, D.D., etc. 
Raleigh, 1867. (Out of print.) 

2. Mushrooms of America Edible and Poisonous. Edited by 
Julius A. Palmer, Jr. Numerous colored plates. Published by 
L. Prang & Co., Boston, 1885. 

3. About Mushrooms. A Guide to the Study of Esculent and 
Poisonous Fungi. A collection of various articles upon the sub- 
ject. By Julius A. Palmer. Lee & Shepard, Boston, 1894. 

4. Boleti of the United States. A catalogue containing full de- 
scriptions of one hundred and eight species. (No illustrations.) 
By Professor Charles H. Peck, State Botanist, State Hall, Albany, 
N. Y. Annual Report of the State Botanist issued by the Board 
of Regents, Albany University. 

Professor Peck has also published a series of papers on " Edi- 
ble Mushrooms " in The Country Gentleman, of Albany, N. Y. A 
new work from him on this subject is in preparation. 

5. Pacific Coast Fungi. By Dr. H. W. Harkness and Justin P. 
Moore. 1880. A catalogue. 

6. The Deadly and Minor Poisons of Mushrooms . By Charles 
Mcllvaine. Reprint from the Therapeutic Gazette. George S. 
Davis, Detroit, Mich. Quoted in present volume. Captain Mc- 
llvaine is also the author of several popular articles on the subject 
of esculent mushrooms which have appeared in various journals 
and magazines. 

7. Fungi Caroliniani Exsiccati. Five Fasciculi, one hundred 
specimens in each. By H. W. Ravenel, of Aiken, S. C. John 
Russell, Charleston. 

8. Bulletins of United States Department of Agriculture, Wash- 
ington D. C. By Thomas M. Taylor, Chief of the Division of 
Microscopy. Washington, D. C, 1893-94. Five issues, with many 
colored plates of various specimens, both edible and poisonous ; 
also full directions for cultivation of the common mushroom. 



326 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

9. Notes for Mushroom Eaters. By W. G. Farlow. Pamphlet. 
Illustrated. Garden & Forest Publishing Co., New York. 

ENGLISH 

10. Illustrations of British Mycology. (Hand-painted.) By Mrs. 
T. J. Hussey. Reeve Brothers, London, 1847. ^" admirable 
work, the pioneer treatise in Great Britain ; rare ; reference copies 
only in prominent libraries. 

11. Escicknt Funguses of England. By Rev. Dr. C. D. Badham. 
With twenty colored plates. 8vo. L. Reeve & Co., London. 1870. 

12. A Plain and Easy Account of the British Fungi; with De- 
scriptions of the Esculent and Poisonous Species, Details of the 
Principles of Scientific Classification, and a Tabular Arrangement 
of Orders and Genera. By M. C. Cooke, M.A., LL.D. With 
twenty-four colored plates. R.' Hardwick, Piccadilly, London, 
1871. An excellent, inexpensive, and popular hand-book. 

13. Outlines of British Fungology. Containing Characters of 
above a Thousand Species of Fungi, and a Complete List of all 
that have been described as Natives i<of the British Isles. By 
Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. Lovell Reeve, Henrietta 
Street, Covent Garden, London, i860. Beautifully illustrated 
with twenty- four lithographic hand -colored plates by W. Fitch, 
each plate presenting several species, and including a number of 
the esculent. 

14. Mushrooms and Toadstools : How to Distinguish Easily the 
Differences between Edible and Poisonous Fungi. With two 
large sheets containing figures of twenty-nine edible and thirty- 
one poisonous species drawn the natural size, and colored from 
living specimens. By Worthington T. Smith, F.L.S. 2d edition, 
R. Hardwick, 192 Piccadilly, London, 1875. 

15. A Selection of the Eatable Funguses of Great Britain. Edited 
by Robert Hogg, LL.D., and Geo. W. Johnson, F.R.H.S. Nu- 
merous excellent hand-colored plates. 

16. Fungi: Their Nature and Uses. By M. C. Cooke, M.A., 
LL.D.; edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. In 
" International Scientific Series.'' D. Appleton & Co., N. Y. 
A very full and condensed epitome of the science of fungology. 

17. Hand-book of British Fungi. By M. C. Cooke. 2 vols. 
Macmillan & Co., London, 1871. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 327 

18. Illustrations of British Fungi. Atlas to accompany above. 
By M. C. Cooke. Williams & Norgate, London, 1889. 

19. Scottish Cryptogamic Flora. 6 vols. By R. R. Greville, 1823. 

20. Fungi-hunters' Guide. By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

21. Elementary Text-book. By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

22. British Fungi. By John Stevenson. William Blackwood & 
Sons. London, 1886. 

23. Mushroom Culture. By W. Robinson. F. Warne & Co., 
London, 1870. Containing full directions for the cultivation of 
mushrooms ; also an extended chapter upon common wild species. 
Illustrated with wood-cuts, numerous recipes, etc. 

FRENCH 

24. Plantes Usuelles. Par Joseph Roches. Vol. IV., containing 
the Edible and Poisonous Fungi : also his Histoire des Cham- 
pignons Comestibles at Tdnd-neux. Elegantly illustrated. Paris, 
1838. 

25. Les Champignons: Histoire, Description, Culture, Usages 
des Especes Comestibles, V^n^neuses, Suspectes, etc. Par F. S. 
Cordier. With sixty chromo - lithographs. 4th edition. Paris, 
1876. 

26. Histoire Naturelle des Champignons. By G. Sicard. C. H. 
Delagrave, Paris, 1883. Numerous colored plates. Rare. Copy 
in Astor Library, N. Y. 

27. Botanique Cryptogamigue, ou Histoire des Families Naturelles 
des Plantes Inferieures. Par J. Payer, Docteur fes Sciences, etc. 
With 1 105 engravings on wood. Victor Masson, Paris, 1850. 

28. Des Champignons. (Orfila Prize Essay.) By Emile Boudier. 
J. B. Ballifere, Paris, 1866. 

29. Champignons. By L. M. Gautier. J. B. Ballifere et Fils. 

Paris, 1884. 

30. Figures Peintes de Champignons. By Captain L. Lucand. 
Friedlander & Son, Berlin, 1882. (Reference copy at Massachu- 
setts Horticultural Society.) 

j,\. Les Champignons. By J. Moyen. J. Rothschild, Paris, 1889. 
32. Nouvelle Flore. By J. Constantin and Leon Dufour. Paul 
Dupont, Paris, 1891. 




ACKNOWLEDG.MENTS, 40. 

AgaricaceiB, order of the, 77, 

Agaiicini, 75-178 ; botanical characters 
of, 79. 

Agarics, edible, 80-178 ; Curtis's list 
of, g-i2. 

Agarictis, 43, 44 ; vegetation of, 44-47, 
85-92, 107 ; botanical characters of, 
77-79, 283. 

Agaricus, species of :  Amanita, see 
Amanita ;  arvensis, 85, 91 ; epicu- 
rean opinions of, 94 ;  canifestrls, 
9, 13, 21, 24, 80-95, 307, 308, 321 ; 
the " Mushroom," 16-22 ; variations 
in, 89-93 ; spore-print of, 283 ;  
candicans, 86;  euosmus, 147;  
fusipes, 299 ,gambosu5, 95-101; to 
cook, 313;  heterophylla, see Rus- 
iula ;  Marasmius oreades, 101-108; 
melleus, 10, 28 \orcella, 300 -.os- 
treatus, 10, 26, 141-148, 303. 307 ; 
pratensis, 91 ; procerus, 10, 86, 87, 
II3-I19, 312, ^2\,  ruber, 300; 
ulmarUis, lo, 26, 27, 148-154, 303. 



3 1 2 ;  vaporarius , 9 1 ;villaticus,^\ ; 

 virescens, 300. See, also, Riissula, 

Coprinus, Lactarius, Chantarelle, and 

Marasmius. 
Agrippina, victim of Amanita, 59. 
Amanita, genus of, readily identified, 2, 

23, 74. 273- 

 Botanical characters of, 29, 33, 41- 

51, 79, 273- 

 The cup or volva in, 29, 33, 47, 48, 

57, 74, 273- 

 Vegetation and development of, 44, 
45, 74 ; the veil or shroud of, 48. 

 Fatalities from eating, 2, 15, 2g, 60 ; 
a dangerous enemy, 15, 23, 29 ; " sil- 
ver test " upon, 26 ; effect of salt and 
heat upon, 29. 

 Poison of, 48, 60 ; chemical nature 
of poison of, 48, 61 ; Czar Alexis, 52; 
Agrippina, 59 ; intoxication from, 59, 
60 ; dipsomaniacs, 59, 60 ; isolation 
of poison of, 61 ; absorption of poison 
of, by contact and odor, 30, 69 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of poison of. 



530 



INDEX 



38,39; antidote for poison of, 61-68 r 
report of a case of poisoning by, 63- 
66 ; poison of, extracted by vinegar, 

71. 
Amanita^ Poisonous species of :  ver- 
nus, 17, 25, 51 ;  muscarius, 51, 73 ; 
spore-print of, 289, 291 ;  phalloides, 

5r, 74- 

 Edible species of, 73 ; Casarea, 
rubescens, strobiliformis, 9, 12, 48. 

Amanitine, 60 ; antidote, 62. 

Alexis, Czar, victim of Amanita, 52. 

America and Europe, comparative ap- 
preciation of fungi in, 299. 

American and European fungi identi- 
cal, 12. 

American mycophagists, 8, 9, 15. 

Antidotes for mushroom poisoning, 62, 
67, 68. 

Ants attacked by fungi, 295. 

Asci in fungi, 256. 

Ascomycetes, 256. 

Asiatic Russia, Amanita dipsomaniacs 
of, 59- 

Bacterium bacillus, 7, 8. 

Badham, Dr. C. D., quoted, xii. , 12, 

13, 40, 177, 189, 237, 246, 299, 301, 

306, 310, 316. Bibliography, No. 

II, 326. 
Baked mushrooms, 311-313. 
Basket for gathering mushrooms, 36. 
" Beefsteak " mushroom, II, 27, 213- 

217, 303 ; to cook, 314 ; as salad, 

319- 

Bees and wasps, 36. 

Beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Belladonna. See Atropine. 

Berkeley, Rev. M. J., variations in 
Campestris, 40, 91 ; quoted, 107, 237, 
246, 294, 301. Bibliography, Nos. 
13 and 16, 326. 

Bibliography  American, 325; Eng- 
lish, 326 ; French, 327. 

Bitter Boletus, 208. 

Blights, 7. 



Blue mould, 78. 

Blue-stain Boleti, 196. 

Boleti, 182-213 I botanical characters 
of, 1 81-184, 285 ; hawk fed upon, 
302 ; fritters of, 314 ; soup of, 314; 
to dry, 321. 

Boletus, characters of, 182 ; various 
edible, 10, 26, 182-213 ! spore-print 
of, 285. 

Boletus,  alveolatus, 183, 201, 208;  
castaneus, 10 ;  chrysenteron, 195- 
2or ;  collinitus, 10;  cyanescens, 
201, 207 ; cone-like, 202 ;  edulis, 
10, 13, 16, 18, 189, 190, 300 ; artificial 
cultivation of, 86 ; crimson, 213 ; 
 elegans, 10 ;  felleus, 207,208-213; 
 flavidus, 10 ;  granulatus, 10 ;  
luteus, 10 ;  satanas, 207, 208 ;  
scalier, 10, 191-195 ;  subtomentosus, 
10, 26, 183, 195 ; blue stain of, 196, 
201, 207 ;  strobilomyces, 202-207 ; 
spore-print of,28l ;  versipellis, 10. 

Botanical discrimination, 31, 32. 

 discrimination of Amanita. See 
Amanita. 

Boudier, Emile. Bibliography, No. 28, 

327- 
Bovista nigrescens, 10. 

 plumbea, 10. 
Broiled mushrooms, 308. 

Bubbola maggiore. See Pasture Mush- 
room. 
Bulbosine, 60. 

Campestris. See Agaricus. 
Cantharellus ,  cibarius, 10, 27, 172- 

178, 300;  aurantiacus, 178; to 

cook, 310; drying of, 321. 
Caterpillar fungi, 295. 
Catsup, Mushroom, 320. 
Champignon "Fairy-Ring," 27, 87, 

95; to cook, 309 ; dried, 321. 

 Poisonous, 108, 113. 
Chantarelle. See Cantharellus. 
" Chef a la mode," the, 305. 
Chemical analysis of fungi, 14, 302. 



INDEX 



331 



Chestnut-burr fungus, 294. 
Chestnut tongue. See Fistulina. 
Chicken flavor in mushrooms, 303, 316. 
Chinese caterpillar fungus, 296. 
Cicada fungus, 295, 
Classification of fungi, 77, 78. 
Claudius, Emperor, poisoned, 59. 
Clavariei, 231, 247256. 
Clavaria, Various, 10, 11;  aniethys- 

tina^ fastigiata, Jlava^ rugosa, stricta^ 

umbrina, 255 ;  botrytis, 256 ;  for- 

mosa, 247 ; to cook, 317 ; used as 

salad, 319 ; to dry, 322. 
Club fungi. See Clavaria. 
Cogomelos. See Pasture Mushroom. 
Colored plates of the book, 39. 
Coniomycetes, 78. 
Consomme from mushrooms, 315. 
Cooke, Rev. Dr. M. C, 40, 59, 214, 

237, 273, 295, 306, 307, 313, 315. 

Bibliography, Nos. 12, 16, 17, 326 ; 

No. 18, 327. 
Cooking furigi, 72, 306-322. 
Coprinus, 87; to dry, 321 \iitmmen- 

tiir ius. I I. 27, 2 8, 161, 163 ;  cotiin- 

tus, II, 87, 154-160. 
Coral fungi^ See Clavaria. 
Cordier, F. S., 246, 248, 306, 319. 

Bibliography, No. 25, 327. 
Correspondents, 2-6. 
Cortinarius castaneus, cinnaniomeus, 

violaceus, 11. 
Cosmopolitan fungi, 12. 
Couleiuelle. See Pasture Mushroom, 
Crimson Boletus, 213. 
Cryptogamia, the, 7. 
Crystals on drying fungi, 227. 
Culinary "treatment" of fungi, 72, 

214, 304. 
Cultivation of mushrooms, 85, 86. Bib- 
liography, No. 8, 325 ; No. 23, 327. 
"Cup," the, in Amanita, 29, 33, 47, 

48, 57, 74. 273- 
Currie, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 
Curtis, Rev. M. A., pioneer American 

mycophagist, g, 32. 4- 



Curtis's, Rev. M. A . , list of edible mush- 
rooms, g-l 2 ; quoted, 219, 245, 301, 
318. Bibliography, No. i, 325. 

Cystidium, the, 77, 256. 

Deadly mushrooms and toadstools, 

2, 3, 43-74. 

Deaths by fungi, 43, 61. 

Decaying fungi, 6, 25, 30, 278. 

Delagrave, C. H. Bibliography, No. 
26, 327. 

Desiccationof fungi, 107, 119, 246, 262, 
321. 

Diagnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poiiioning, 38, 63-68. 

Doe-skin mushroom. See Nydnum 
repandiirn. 

Dried fungi. See Desiccation of fungi. 

Dufour, J. Constantin and Leon. Bib- 
liography, No. 32, 327. 

Dust-like fungi, 78. 

Economic fungology, 7, 13, 14. 

Edible Amanitse, 9, 12, 73. 

Edible mushrooms, number of species, 

2, 7, 32, 60; list of, by Curtis, 9-12; 

popular tests for identification, 22, 

23; become poisonous from contact 

vi'ith Amanita, 70. 
Elm mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 148-154, 

303. 312. 

Elvellacei, 231. See Helvella. 

Emetic mushroom. .See Russula. 

Epicurean perversity, 72. 

European and American fungi iden- 
tical, 12. 

European mycologists, 14, 326, 327. 

Fairy-ring mushroom, 95, lOi-ioS; 
cause of "ring." io2, 107 ; recipesfoi 
cooking, 107, 108; false or poison- 
ous, 108, 113. 

False Champignon, 108. 

Farlow, W. G, Bibliography, No. 9, 
326. 

" Fish mushroom," 154, 303, 312. 



332 



INDEX 



Fistulina hepatica, ii, 26, 27, 213, 
299, 303; to cook, 314; as salad, 

319- 

Fly, Fungus attacking, 295. 

Fly-poison, Amanita, 27, 51, 52, 72, 
See Amanita muscariits. 

Food, Fungi as, 8, 13-15, 35, 221, 245, 
299-323. 

" Foxfire,"- 227. 

France, Fungus-eaters of, 14. 

Fried mushrooms, 313-318. 

Fries, Fungologist, 268. 

Fritters of fungi, 314, 318. 

Fungi. See, also. Toadstools, Mush- 
rooms, and Moulds. 

 by mail, 4, 5. 

 Chemical constituents of, 14, 302. 

 Classification of, 77, 78. 

 Common tests for "Edible," and- 
their reputation, 17-21, 24-29. 

 Coral. See Clavaria. 

 Crystals on, 227. 

 Cultivation of, 85, 88. Bibliog- 
raphy, No. 8, 325'; No, 23, 327. 

 Desiccation of, 119, 246, 262, 301, 
310, 321. 

 Economic, 7, 13. 

 Edible. See Agaricus Boletus, 
Clavarei, Fistulina, Helvella, Morel, 
Mushroom, and Puff-balls. 

 Fastidiousness in vegetation, 86-88, 
294. 

 Gill-bearing (Agarics), 78, 178. 

 Hawk fed upon, 302. 

 Hygrometric properties of, iig. 

 Insects infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36- 
38, 135- 

 List of works on, 325. 

 Medical, 277. 

 Menu for fungus repast, 323. 

 Miscellaneous, 231-274. 

 Mycelium, or spawn, of, 44, 45, 77, 
85, 88, 92, 107. 

 Number of species of, 6. 30, 60. 

 on caterpillars and chrysalids, 295. 

 on chestnut-burr, 294. 



Ficngi on house-fly, 295. 

 opposed to cultivation, 86-88." 

 Ornamental forms of, 227. 

 Phosphorescent, 227. 

 Physiological features of, 15. 

 Poisoning by, 2, :5, 29; diagnosis 
and treatment, 37 ; remedies, 38, 
39 ; intoxication from, 59 ; antidotes, 
62, 67, 68; report of poisoning case, 
63-66 ; poisoning by contact and 
odor, 6g; edible species inoculated 
by contact, 70. 

 Popular distrust of, 15, 21. 

 Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

 Raw, eaten as salad, 248,- 319. 

 Recipes for cooking, 306-319. 

 simulating animal food, 15, 30, 302. 

 S|iores and Spore-print of, 277-296. 
-^ Study, of, 7'. 

 traditions and superstitions, 22, 23. 

 Vegetation of, 44, 47, 85-92, 107, 
294. 

 Whims of habitat of, 294. 
Fungologists, Amateur, safe rules for, 

33- 
Fungus food in Europe and America, 
8, 13-15, 35, 299- 

 gnats, flies, and beetles, 37. 

Gasteromycetes, 78. 

Gathering mushrooms. Rules for, 35 , 36. 

Gautier, Dr. M. L., 62. Bibliograpli)', 

No. 29, 327. 
Germany, Fungus-eaters in, 14. 
Gill-bearing mushrooms, 75-1 78. 
Gnats infesting fungi, 37. 
Greville, R. R. Bibliography, No. 19, 

327- 
"Grubs" in fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135. 

Harkness, Dr. H. W., 32, 245, 310. 
Bibliography, No. 5, 325. 

Hawk fed upon Boleti, 302. 

Hawthorne, Nathaniel, allusion to fun- 
gus phosphorescence, 228. 



INDEX 



333 



Hay, William D, Bibliography, Nos. 
20, 21, 327. 

Heat destroys poison, 29, 72. 

Hedgehog mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Helvetia crispa, 11, 231, 261, 262 ; oth- 
er species, 1 1 ; recipes for cooking, 
262, 316; to dry, 322. 

Historical fungi, 43, 59, 60. 

Hogg, Robert, LL.D. Bibliography, 
No. 15, 326. 

Horse mushroom. See Agaricus ar- 
vensis. 

House-fly fungus, 295. 

Hungarian soup of Boleti, 314. 

Hussey, Mrs. T. J., 40, 306, 310, 311, 
315, 318. Bibliography, No. 10, 
326. 

Hydnei, 231-24T, to cook, 310. 

Hydnum^ 300, 307;  capnt-mediisiT, 11, 
27, 238-243; repandum, II, 28, 232- 
238 ;  rufescens, 237, 238 ;  coral- 
loides, 245 ;  gelatinosujti^ 319. 

 Various edible species of, II ; to 
cook, 246. 

Hygrometric fungus, lig. 
Hygrophorus eburneus and pratensis, 

II. 
Hymenium of fungi, 78. 
Hymenomycetcs, 78. 
Hyphomycetes, 78. 

Identification of fungi, 31. 

Idiosyncrasy, 30, 61. 

Indigestibility of certain species, 

30. 
Inky mushroom, 28. See Coprinus. 
Insects attacked by fungi, 295. 

 infesting fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36, 38, 

135- 
Intoxication by Amanita, 59. 
Introduction, I. 
Italy, Fungus-eaters of, 14, 86. 

Jelly-like mushroom, 319. 
Johnson, Geo. W. Bibliography, No. 
15. 326- 



Kamchatka, Amanita dipsomaniacs 

of, 59, 60. 
Ketchup, Mushroom. See Catsup. 
Koppe, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 

Lactauius, Poisonous, 61. 
Lactarius, Various edible species of, 11; 

 deliciosus, 28, 166-171, 300, 311; 

piperatus,zi, 171;  zioktiium, 171. 
Lambs' kidneys, Flavor of, in fungi, 

300, 311. 
Letters to the author, 4. 
Liver mushroom. See Fistulina.. 
Lucand, L. Bibliography, No. 30, 327. 
Luminous fungi, 227. 
Lycoperdacea , 267. 
Lycoperdon. See Puff-ball. 

 bovista, II. 

 structure of, 270. 

Mailing fungus specimens, 4. 

Marasmius,  scorodoneus, \ 1 ;  oreades, 
II, 101-108;  urens, io%-lii;^-pe- 
ronatus, 109-113. 

Mcllvaine, Captain Charles, 32; rule 
regarding edibility of fungi, 35 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 39, 40, 62 ; fastidious- 
ness of fungi, 86, 184, 208. Bibli- 
ography, No. 6, 325. 

Meadow Mushroom. See Agaricus 
campestris. 

Medical and Surgical Reporter quoted, 
62. 

Medusa Mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Menu of mushrooms, 323. 

Microbes, 7. 

Microscopic fungi, 7. 

Mildew, 7, 78. 

Milky mushroom. See Lactarius. 

Miscellaneous fungi, 231-274. 

Mock oyster soup, 306. 

Moore, Justin P. Bibliography, No. 

5. 325- 
liloniteur Scienti/ii/ue, quotation from, 
6r. 



334 



INDEX 



Morcliella esculenta. See Morel. 

 caroliniana, I2, 

Morel, 12, 231, 256; to cook, 316; to 

dry, 322. 
Mortality in mushroom poisoning, 

43- 
Moss-mushroom, 245. 
" Mother," 7. 
Moulds, 7, 78. 

Moyen, J. Bibliography, No. 31, 327. 
"Muscarine" poison, 60. 
"Mushroom" ai)d "Toadstool," 16- 

21. 
Mushrooms. See Toadstools, Agari- 

cus, Boletus, Polyporei, Fistulina, 

and Fungi. 

 a la creme, 308. 

 a la Proven9al, 308. 

 Analysis of, 289-291. 

 Baked, 311-313. 

 Basket for, 36. 

 Bibliography,No.8,325; No. 23,327. 

 Broiled, 308. 

 by mail, 4. 

 catsup, 320. 

 Chemical nature of, 14, 61. 

 Chestnut-burr, 294. 

 Classification of, 77, 78. 

 Cosmopolitan types of, 12. 

 Cultivation of, 85, 86. Bibliogra- 
phy, No; 23, 327. 

 Drying of, for food, 119, 246, 262, 
301, 310, 321. 

 Edible, 8, 13-15, 32. 

 Edible species : plentiful supply 
of, 13. 35. 303; Beefsteak, 11, 27; 
Coral, see Clavaria ; Elm, 10 ; 
" Fairy-ring," 95, loi ; False Fairy- 
ring, 108, 109; Horse, 85, gi-95 ; 
Inky, II, 20, 28, 88 ; Meadow, see 
Agaricus campestris ; Milky, see 
Lactarius ; Moss, 245 ; Oyster, see 
Agarictis ostreatus j Pasture, 10, 13, 
113; Russulte, iig-141 ; Spine- 
bearing, see Hydnum ; St. George's, 
95-101. 



Mushrooms, Fastidiousness of most 
species of, 86, 294. 

 Fried, 313, 317. 

 Fritters of, 314, 317. 

 Insects infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135- 

 Large specimens of, 92. 

 List of works on, 325. 

 Menu, 323. 

 Melting, See Coprinus. 

 Milky. See Lactarius. 

 Moss. See Hydnum. 

 Mycelium or spawn of, and vegeta- 
tion of, 44, 45, 77, 85-88, 92, 107. 

 Number of edible species of, 2, 7, 9, 
32, 60; identification of, 2, 31; Cur- 
tis's list of, g-12; nourishing prop- 
erties of, 14 ; chemical simulation of 
animal food by, 15, 30, 302; popular 
tests for detecting, 22, 23; refuta- 
tion of same, 24-29 ; desiccation of, 
119, 321; recipes for cooking, 306- 
322. 

 Number of general species of, 6, 

 Pickled, 319. 

 pie, 312. 

 Poisonous species of, 2, 15, 17, 43- 
74 ; deadly species of, 2, 15, 43-74 ; 
poison by contact with, 30, 69; vine- 
gar, sweet oil, and whiskey, 39 ; diag- 
nosis and treatment of poisoning, 
39,63-66; historical poisoning by, 43, 
59, 60; fatalities from, 43, 61 ; intgxi- 
cation from, 59, 60; poison discrim- 
inated, 6i ; antidotes, 62, 67, 68 ; 
report of a poisoning case, 63-66 ; 
harmless mushrooms inoculated from 
poisonous, 70 ; salt, vinegar, and 
heat, 2g, 39, 71, 72. See, also, Ama- 
nita, Russula emetica. Boletus, and 
False Champignon. 

 Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

 Roast, 311. 

 Rules for gathering, 36, 70. 

 Rural authorities on, 16-22. 

 salad, 3ig. 



INDEX 



335 



Mushroom soup, 306, 307, 323. 

 spawn. See Mycelium. 

 spores. See Spores and Spore- 
prints. 

 Stewed, 307, 308-311, 315-317. 

 tube. See Polyporei. 

 Testing new species of, for edibility, 
33- 

 Whims of habitat of, 294. 
Mycetes fungi, 77. 

Mycology and mycophagy, 3, 4, 7, 8. 

 Medical and economic, 7, 8, 13-15, 
35, 277. 

Mycophagists of America, 8, 9. 

 Amateur, safe rules for, 38. 

Nero, 59; poisonous mushrooms used 

ijy. 43- 

Night, Fungi luminous by, 227 
Nourishing properties of mushrooms, 

14- 

Oak-tongue fungus. See Fistulina. 
Odor of Amanita poisonous, 69. 
Omelet, Mushroom, 277, 278, 318. 
Orcella, Agaric, 300. 
Oyster mushroom, 10, 36,^2 7, 141-148; 
to cook, 303, 311, 315. 

 flavor in fungi, 237, 247, 300, 303, 
307, 310, 312. 

Pachyma cocos, 11. 

Palmer, Julius A., quoted: "Silver 
test," 25, 32, 40 ; on Amanita poison, 
61, 69-71, 184, 207 ; on mushroom 
food, 303, 306, 311. Bibliography, 
Nos. 2, 3, 325. 

Pasture, or parasol^ mushroom, 9, 13, 
80, 113- 

Paulet, 306, 314. 

Paxillus involutus, 11. 

Payer, J. Bibliography, No. 27, 327. 

Peck, Prof. Charles H., 32, 40, 182, 
237, 246. Bibliography, No. 4, 325. 

Persoon, 306, 316. 

Phosphorescence in fungi, 227. 



Pickled mushrooms, 319. 

Pie of mushrooms, 312, 315. 

Plates of the book, 39. 

Pliny on mushroom "tests," 25 ; on 
poisonous mushrooms, 43, 59 ; on 
edible mushrooms, 298. 

Poison-cup. See Amanita. 

Poison of Amanita, 43, 61 ; antidote, 
68 ; poisoning by contact and odor, 
69- 

Poisoning by fungi : Diagnosis and 
treatment, 38, 63, 68 ; vinegar as 
an antidote, 38, 71 ; antidote, 62, 
68 ; Amanita, 2, 15, 43-74 ; poison- 
ous species identified, 2, 15, 61 ; 
popular poison " tests ' refuted, 
17, 21-29 ; poisoning by contact, 
30, 69. 

Poisons, fatal and minor, 2, 15, 17, 29, 
30, 61. 

Polyporei, 78, 181-228; to dry, 321. 

Polyporus, various edible species of , 1 1 ; 
 sulphureus, 11, 219, 303; to cook, 
316; botanical character of, 181-184, 
285. 

Popular discrimination between " toad- 
stool" and "mushroom," 16-22; 
popular distrust of fungi, 15. 

Pore-bearing mushrooms. See Boletus, 
Polyporei, and Fistulina. 

Procerus mushroom, 10 ; pie of, 312. 

PufF-ball fungi, 11, 13, 27, 78, 231, 267, 
299; gemmatum , 268; saccatmn, 268; 
giganteum, 268, 318; dissemination 
of spores of, 268, 277-280 ; medical 
use of, 277 ; as food, 277, 318 ; to 
cook, 318. 

" Punk," 37, 181. 

Puree of mushrooms, 307. 

RagoOt of mushrooms, 309, 316. 
Ravenel, H. W. Bibliography, No. 7, 

325- 
Recipes for cooking fungi, 72, 306- 

322. 
"Ring" in mushrooms, 48, 85, 95. 



336 



INDEX 



Robinson, W., 306, 312, 313. Bib- 
liography, No. 23, 327. 

Roques, Joseph, 237, 306, 310, 311. 
Bibliography, No. 24, 327. 

Rove-beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Rules for the venturesome, 33. 

Russia, Fungus-eaters in, 14 : fly Ama- 
nita in, 29. 

Russula, 12, 13, 18, 26, 28;  lepida, 12, 
127;  alutacea, 12, 133;  virescens, 
12, 88, 120, 300 ;  emetica, 25, 27, 28, 
61, 120, 122, 136-141;  heterophylla, 
134, 300 ;  rttber, 300. 

Russules, 119; opposed to cultivation of, 
88; insects infesting, 135; to bake, 
311; as salad, 319; to dry, 321. 

Rust, 7. 

Rustic fungology, 18-22. 

Salad of mushrooms, 319. 

Salt as an antidote, 39, 72. 

" Salt test" of mushrooms, 23, 29. 

Scaly mushrooms. See Amanita, Aga- 
nctis procerus, and Boletus strobi- 
loides. 

Schmiedeberg, Dr., on Amanita poison, 
60. 

" Scotch Bonnet." See Agaricus pro- 
cerus. 

"Sep." See Boletus edulis. 

" Seven Sisters of Sleep," by Rev. Dr. 
M. C. Cooke, 59. 

Shadle, Dr. J- E., 62. 

Shaggy-mane mu.shrooms, 11, 13; rus- 
tic appreciation of, 19, 27, 28. See 
Coprinus comatus. 

" Shroud" in Amanita, 48. 

Silver, Discoloration of, as a " test," 23, 

Smith, Worthington T., 40, 306, 307, 
309, 314. Bibliography, No. 14, 326. 

Smuts, 7. 

Socket in Amanita. See Volva. 

Souffle of puff-balls, 318. 

Sparassis,  crispa, 12 ;  luminosa, 12. 

"Spawn," or mycelium, of fungi, 44, 
45, 77, 80, 85-88, 92, 107. 



Specimens by mail, 5. 

Spiders attacked by fungi, 295. 

Spine-bearing mushrooms, II, 27. See 
Hydnum. 

Spore-prints from mushrooms, 44, 277- 
296 ; from Amanita 7nuscarius, 287, 
2,89 ; from Boletus, 285, 287 ; from 
Agaricus campestris, 283. 

.Spore surface, or hymenium, 78, 182. 

Spores of fungi, 79, 87, 182, 268, 277- 
296; number of, 279; buoyancy of, 
278-293; various colors of , 287; va- 
rious forms of, 293. 

Sporidiifcra, 11, 231, 256. 

Sporifera, 77, 78, 231, 256. 

Staphylinus beetles infesting mush- 
rooms, 37. 

Stevenson, John. Bibliography, No. 
22, 327.. 

Stew of fjmgi, 307, 308-311, 315-317. 

St. George's mushroom, 95-101. 

Strob^lomyces, 202. 

Styptic, Puff-balls used as, 277. 

Sulphur mushroom, 219, 303; to cook, 
316 ; as a salad, 319. 

" Sweetbreads" in fungi, 300, 303. 

Sweet-oil treatment for mushroom poi- 
soning, 39. 

Taylor, Thomas M. Bibliography, 
No. 8, 325. 

Teeth-bearing mushrooms. See Hyd- 
num. 

Tertullian on toadstools, 17. 

Testing new species for edibility, 33. 

"Tests" or "proofs" for the detec- 
tion of poisonous species, 17, 21-29. 

Therapeutic Gazette, quotation from, 
39- 

Thore, Dr., quoted, 86. 

Thread-like fungi, 78. 

" Tinder," 37, 181. 

"Toadstool" and " Mushroom," 16- 
21, 36; popular discrimination of, 16- 
24; popular tests for their discrimina- 
tion and their refutation, 17-22, 24- 



INDEX 



337 



29. See Mushroom, Fungi, Agaricus, 

Amanita, Boletus, Polyporei, Morel, 

Clavaria, Helvella. 
" Toadstools," 181. 
"Touchwood," 37, 181. 
Tremella mesenterica , 12. 
Tremelodon gelatinosum, 319. 
Tiichogastres, 231. See Puff-balls. 
Tube mushrooms. See Polyporei, 

Boletus, and Fistulina. 

Vegetarian, Menu for the, 304, 323. 
Veil in mushrooms, 48, 60, 85. 
Vigier, Dr. , on Amanita poison, 60. 



Vinegar as an antidote for mushroom 

poisoning, 39, 71. 
Vitadini, 318. 
Volva in Amanita, Importance of, in 

classification, 29, 33, 48, 77. 

Warty mushrooms. See Amanita, 
Pasture Mushroom, and Strobylo- 
7nyces. 

Wasps and bees, 36. 

 Fungus attacking, 295. 

Whiskey in mushroom poisoning, 39. 

Wormy specimens of fungi, 25, 30, 34, 
36-38, 135. 













!.:; 






- ." ''- ^v:t -""''* r^v^ ','''! '-i-r^s 



..-/-. 



"i-r.VtSiv 













>.'t Ai i'?Mv^?S M .".HIT A 








Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



; I : 



TSrtTTfc*^^*^ 



i^avbarb College l^tbrarg 



GEORGE HAYWARD, M.D., 
OF BOSTON, , 
(OMx af !). 




^-r. fx 



^^?r^. 






\ I 








The Deadly Amanita. 



Our Edible 
Toadstools and Mushrooms 

and 

How to Distinguish Them 

A Selection of Tbirly Native Food yarieties 
Easily Recognisable by their Marked Indi- 
vidualities, with Simple Rules for the 
Identification of Poisonous Species 



By W. HAMILTON GIBSON 



WITH THIRTY COLORED PLATES 
AND FIFTY-SEVEN OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE AUTHOR 



NEW YORK 

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 

189s 




IE=^ ':'.')^l^^ 



j<,f ZDZO 



A' 




c ' 






BOUND. WAY 28 1910 



THE WORKS OF W. HAMILTON GIBSON. 

ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR. 



SHARP EYES. A Rambler's Calendar among Birds, Insects, and 
Flowers. 8vo, f 5 00. 

HICiHWAYS AND BYWAYS; or. Saunterings in New England. 
4to, %^ 50. 

STROLLS BY STARLIGHT AND SUNSHINE. Royal 8vo, JI3 50. 

HAPPY HUNTING-GROUNDS. A Tribute to the Woods and 
Fields. 4to, %^ 50. 

PASTORAL DAYS; or, Memories of a New England Year. 

4to, %1 50- 
CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS, and the Tricks of Trapping and 

Trap-making. i6mo, %\ 00. 

PuBUSHBD BY HARPER & BROTHERS, Nkw York. 



-- i 



Copyright, 1895. by Harper & Brothers. 

All rights reserved. 



V\v 



M fniW.vvTtu.>MiA4 k ^ 

wiiiL 0^4,^ iitM^d^ 



14 



COlcA^VVU^L 



''For those who do hunger after the earthlie 
excrescences called mushrooms. ' '  Gerarde. 



' I. The Deadly "Amanita" Frontispitce 

y 2. Mycelium, and early vegetation of a mushroom ... 45 

. ). Amanita vernus  devflopment 49 

' 4- Agaricus (Amanita) muscarius 55 

' 5- Agaricus campestris 8; 

< 6, Agaricus campestris various forms of 89 

) 7. Agaricus gambosus 99 

 8. Marasmius oreades. " Fairy-ring " 105 

' 9. Poisonous Champignons. M.urens  M.peroaatia. . .111 

*io. Agaricus procerus 117 

> II. Agaricus (Russula) virescens 123 

' 12. Edible RussuIe, R.btteropbyllaR.aIiUatta-R.lepida . i)i 

' I J. Russula emetica i}9 

' 14. Agaricus ostreatus 145 

' 1;. Agaricus ulmarius i;i 

i* 16. Coprinus comatus -  157 

t 17. Coprinus atramentarius 16} 

.' 18. Lactarius deliciosus 169 

19. Cantharellus cibarius 17; 

, 20. Boletus eduiis 187 

. 21. Boletus scaber igj 



X LIST OF PLATES 

1 22. Edible Boleti. fl. subtomentosutB. cbtyseMteron . . . . 199 

> 23. Strobilomyces strobilaceus 205 

' 24. Suspicious Boleti. B. filleus~B. alutolalus 211 

. 25. Fistulina hepatica 217 

1 26. Polyporus sulphureus 225 

> 27. Hydnum repandum zj; 

< z8. Hydnum caput- medusx 241 

 29. Hydnum caput-medusa  habitat 243 

, JO. Clavaria formosa 251 

> ji. Various forms of Clavaria 25J 

 32. Morchella esculenta 259 

\ 33. Helvella crispa 26; 

i 34. A group of Puff-balls 271 

, 35. Spore-surface and spore-print of Agaricus 283 

1 36. Spore-surface and spore-print of Polyporus (BoUlm) . 285 

1 37. Spore-print of Amanita muscarius 289 

. 38. Action of slight draught on spores . * 2gi 




Q^nttodactioD 



PROMINENT botanical authority con- 
nected with one of our universities, 
upon learning of my intention of per- 
petrating a popular work on our ed- 
lushrooms and toadstools, was inclined 
to take issue with me on the wisdom of such 
publication, giving as his reasons that, owing 
to the extreme difficulty of imparting exact 
scientific knowledge to the " general reader," such a 
work, in its presumably imperfect interpretation by 
the very individuals it is intended to benefit, would 
only result, in many instances, in supplanting the 
popular wholesome distrust of all mushrooms with 
a rash over-confidence which would tend to increase 
the labors of the family physician and the coroner. 
And, to a certain extent, in its appreciation of the 
difficulty of imparting exact science to the lay mind, 
his criticism was entirely reasonable, and would cer- 
tainly apply to any treatise on edible mushrooms for 
popular circulation which contemplated a too exten- 
sive field, involving subtle botanical analysis and nice 
differentiation between species. 



2 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But when we realize the fact  now generally con- 
ceded  that most of the fatalities consequent upon 

mushroom - eating are directly trace- 
Identlflcatlon ^j^j^ ^^ ^^^ particular tempting group 

fatal species of fungi, and that this group is more- 
over so distinctly marked that a fyro 
could learn to distinguish it, might not such a pop- 
ular work, in its emphasis by careful portraiture and 
pictorial analysis of this deadly genus  placarding 
it so clearly and unmistakably as to make it readily 
recognizable  might not such a work, to that extent 
at least, accomplish a public service ? 

Moreover, even the most conservative mycologist 
will certainly admit that out of the hundred and fifty 

of our admittedly esculent species of 
Conservative fungi there might be segregated a few 

mycology which bear such conspicuous charac- 
ters of outward form and other unique 
individual features  such as color of spores, gills, 
and tubes, taste, odor, surface character, color of 
milky juice, etc.  as to render them easily recogniz- 
able even by the " general reader." 

It is in the positive, affirmative assumption of these 
premises that the present work is prepared, com- 
prising as it does a selection of a score or more, as 
it were, self-placarded esculent species of fungi, while 
putting the reader safely on guard against the fatal 
species and a few other more or less poisonous or 
suspicious varieties which remote possibility might 
confound with them. 

Since the publication of a recent magazine article 
on this topic, and which became the basis of the pres- 



INTRODUCTION 3 

ent elaboration, I have been favored with a numerous 
and almost continuous correspondence upon mush- 
rooms, including letters from every 

ititem^in ^*^'^ ^^ ^^^ Union, to say nothing of 
mushrooms Canada and New Mexico, evincing the 

wide -spread interest in the fungus 
from the gustatory point of view. The cautious 
tone of most of these letters, in the main from neo- 
phyte mycologists, is gratifying in its demonstration 
of the wisdom of my position in this volume, or, as 
one of my correspondents puts it, " the frightening of 
one to death at the outset while extending an invita- 
tion to the feast." " Death was often a consequence 
of toadstool eating," my friend continued, "but I 
never before realized that it was a certain result with 
any particular mushroom, and to the extent of this 
information I am profoundly thankful." 

While, then, from the point of view of desired popu- 
larity of my book, the grim greeting of a death's-head 

upon the frontispiece might be consid- 

Caution at ered as something of a handicap, the 

the threshold author confesses that this attitude is 

the result of "malice prepense" and 
deliberation, realizing that he is not offering to the 
" lay public," for mere intellectual profit, this scientific 
analysis of certain fungus species. Were this alone 
the raison d'etre or the logical outcome of the work 
 mere identification of edible and poisonous species 
 the grewsome symbol which is so conspicuous on 
two of my pages might have been spared. But when 
it is remembered that with the selected list of escu- 
lent mushrooms herein offered is implied also an in- 



4 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

vitation and a recommendation to the feast thereof, 
with the author as the host  that the digestive func- 
tions of his confiding friends or guests are to be 
made the final arbiters of the correctness of his bo- 
tanical identification  the ban of bane may as well 
be pronounced at the threshold. Let the too eager 
epicurean be " scared to death at the outset," on the 
general principle pro bono publico^ and to the concilia- 
tion of the author's conscience. 

The oft-repeated queries of other correspondents 
suggest the wisdom of a clearer definition of the 

limitations of the present work. Sev- 
To corre- eral individuals have written in surprise 
spondents of their discovery of a new toadstool 

which I " did not include in my pict- 
ured magazine list," with accompaniment of more or 
less inadequate description and somewhat enigmatical 
sketches, and desiring the name of the species and 
judgment upon its esculent qualities. Such corre- 
spondence is a pleasing tribute to an author, and is 
herewith gratefully acknowledged as to the past and, 
with some mental reservations, welcomed as to the 
future. The number of these communications  oc- 
casionally several in a day, and with consequent rapid 
accumulation  renders it absolutely impossible for a 
busy man to give them the prompt personal atten- 
tion which courtesy would dictate. My " mushroom " 
pigeon-hole, therefore, is still plethoric with the un- 
honored correspondence of many weeks; and inas- 
much as the continual accession more than balances 
the number of my responses, a fulfilment of my obli- 
gations in this direction seems hopeless in contem- 



INTRODUCTION 5 

plation. I would therefore beg the indulgence of 
such of my friends as have awaited in vain for my 
reply to their kind communications, even though the 
future should bring no tidings from me. All of 
these letters have been received, and are herewith 
acknowledged : many of them, too, if I may be par- 
doned what would seem to be a most ungracious 
comment, for which the "dead -letter'' office would 
have been the more appropriate destination. 

I refer to the correspondence "with accompany- 
ing specimens," the letter occasionally enclosed in 

the same box with the said specimens, 

Consider the which, upon its arrival, arouses a protest 

recipient from the local postal authorities, and 

calls for a liberal use of disinfectants 
 a disreputable - looking parcel, which, indeed, would 
appear more consistently referable to the health- 
board than to the mycologist. So frequent did this 
embarrassing episode become that it finally necessi- 
tated the establishment of a morgue for the benefit 
of my mushroom correspondents, or rather for their 
"specimens," usually accompanied with the queries, 
"What is the name of this mushroom? Is it ed- 
ible ?" I have been obliged to write to several of my 
friends that identification of the remains was impos- 
sible, that the remnant was more interesting ento- 
mologically than botanically, and begging that in the 
future all such similar tokens shall be forwarded in 
alcohol or packed in ice. 

" First impressions are lasting " and " a word to 
the wise is sufficient." I would suggest that corre- 
spondents hereafter consider the hazard of an intro- 



6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

duction under such questionable auspices. Most spe- 
cies of mushrooms are extremely perishable, and 

their " animal " character, chemically 

considered, and their tendency to rapid 

Rapid .lecay decomposition, render them unfit for 

transportation for any distance, unless 
hermetically sealed, or their decay otherwise antici- 
pated. 

In the possibility of a continuance of this corre- 
spondence, consequent upon the publication of this 
present book, the writer, in order to forefend a pre- 
sumably generous proportion of such correspondence, 
would here emphasize the fact that he is by no 
means the authority on mycology, or the science 
of fungi, which the attitude of his inquiring friends 
would imply. Indeed, his knowledge of species is 
quite limited. An early fascination, it is true, was 
humored with considerable zeal to the accumulation 
of a portfolio of water-colors and other drawings of 
various fungi  microscopic, curious, edible, and poi- 
sonous  and this collection has been subsequently 
added to at intervals during his regular professional 
work. 

More than one of the originals of the accompany- 
ing colored plates have been hidden in this portfolio 
for over twenty years, and a larger number for ten 
or fifteen years, awaiting the further accumulation of 
that knowledge and experience, especially with refer- 
ence to the edibility of species, which should warrant 
the utterance of the long-contemplated book. 

The reader will therefore kindly remember that 
out of the approximate looo odd species of fungi en- 



INTRODUCTION 7 

titled by their dimensions to the dignity of "toad- 
stools " or " mushrooms "  after separating the 2000 

moulds, mildews, rusts, smuts, blights. 
Number of yeasts, " mother," and other microscopic 

mushroom -^ . ^ 

species species  and out of the 150 recom- 
mended edible species, the present work 
includes only about thirty. This selection has dzrecl 
reference to popular utility^ only such species having 
been included as offer some striking or other indi- 
vidual peculiarity by which they may be simply iden- 
tified, even without so-called scientific knowledge. 

The addition of color to the present list enables 
its extension somewhat beyond the scope of a series 
printed only in black and white, as in the distinction 
of mere form alone an uncolored drawing of a certain 
species might serve to the popular eye as a common 
portrait of a number of allied species, possibly includ- 
ing a poisonous variety. 

While the study of " fungi " has a host of devotees, 
the mysteries which involve the origin of life in this 

great order of the cryptogamia having 
Mycology and had fascinating attractions to micro- 

mycophagy scopical students and specialists, the 

study of economic mycology has been al- 
most without a champion in the United States. Thus 
we have many learned treatises on the nature, struct- 
ure, and habits of fungi  vegetative methods, chem- 
ical constituents, specific characters, classification  
learned dissertations on the microscopical moulds, 
mildews, rusts and smuts, blights and ferments, to 
say nothing of the medico-scientific and awe-inspiring 
potentialities of the sensational microbe, bacterium 



8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

bacillus, etc., which are daily bringing humanity with- 
in their spell and revolutionizing the science of medi- 
cine. But among all the various mycological publi- 
cations we look in vain for the great desideratum of 
the practical hand-book on the economic fungus  
the mushroom as food! The mycologist who has 
been courageous enough to submit his chemical 

analysis and his botanical knowledge of 
Need of fungi to the test of esculence in- his own 

a practical , ^ . 

work being is a rara avis among them ; in- 
deed, a well-known authority states that 
"one may number on the fingers of his two hands 
the entire list of mycophagists in the United States." 
The absence of such works upon the mushroom and 
" toadstool," greatly desired for reference at an early 
period of my career, and little better supplied to- 
day, led to a resolve of which this volume is but an 
imperfect fulfilment. 

The special character of my volume, then  the 
collateral consideration of the fungus as food  will 

be sufficient excuse for the omission of 

Limitations of a merely technical discourse upon the 

tliis volume structure, classification, and vegetation 

of fungi as a class  a field so fully cov- 
ered by other authors more competent to discuss 
these lines of special science, and to a selection of 
whose works the reader is referred in the list here- 
with appended, to a number of which I am indebted 
for occasional quotations. A general idea of the 
methods of dissemination and habitats of fungi will 
be found in the final chapter on " spore-prints," while 
under the discussion of the "Amanita," Agaricus 



INTRODUCTION 9 

campesirisy and the " Fairy Ring " the reader is re- 
ferred to a condensed account of the methods of veg- 
etation and growth of fungi sufficient for present 
purposes. Other references of similar character will 
be noted under " Fungi," in Index. 

The most conspicuous disciple of mycophagy  al- 
most the pioneer, indeed, in America  was the late 

Rev. M. A. Curtis, of North Carolina, 

The. pioneer ^^ose name heads the bibliography on 

American r r t r 

mycopha^ist page 325. For the benefit of those of 

my readers who may wish to follow 
the subject further than my pages will lead them, 
I append the list of edible species of fungi contained 
in Curtis's Catalogue, each group alphabetically ar- 
ranged, the esculent qualities of many of which he 
himself discovered and attested by personal experi- 
ment. The favorite habitat of each fungus is also 
given, and to avoid any possibility of confusion in 
scientific nomenclature or synonymes, the authority 
for the scientific name is also given in each instance : 

LIST OF EDIBLE AMERICAN MUSHROOMS 

FROM THE CATALOGUE OF DR. M. A. CURTIS 

Agaricus albeilus. De Candolle. Damp woods. 

A. (amanitd) CcBsarea. Scopoli. In oak forests. 

A, (amanita) rubescens, Persoon. Damp woods. 

A, (amanita) strobiliformis, Vittadini. Common in woods. 

A, amygdalinus, M. A. Curtis. Rich grounds, woods, and lanes. 

A, arvensis, Schaeffer. Fields and pastures. 

A, bombicinus, Schaeifer. Earth and carious wood. 

A, campestris, Linnaeus. Fields and pastures. 

A. castus, M. A. Curtis. Grassy old fields. 

A, cespitosus, M. A. Curtis. Base of stumps. 

A, columbetta. Fries. Woods. 

A, consociaius. Pine woods. 



lO EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Agarkus cretaceus. Fries. Earth and wood. 

A. escuientus, Jacquin. Dense woods. 

A. excoriatus. Fries. Grassy lands.- 

A, frumentcueous, Bulliard. Pine woods. 

A, giganUus. Sowerby. Borders of pine woods* 

A. glandulosus. Bulliard. Dead trunks. 

A. hypopithyus, M. A. Curtis. Pine logs. 

A, mastoideus. Fries. Woods. 

A, melleus. Valmy. About stumps and logs. 

A. mutabilis. Schaeffer. Trunks. 

A, nebularis, Batsch. Damp woods. 

A, odorus, Bulliard. Woods. 

A. ostreatus, Jacquin. Dead trunks. 

A, personatus. M. A. Curtis. Near rotten logs. 

A.potneti, Fries. Carious wood. 

A, procerus, Scopoli. Woods and fields. 

A, prunulus, Scopoli. Damp woods. 

A, rachodes, Vittadini. Base of stumps and trees. 

A. radicatus. Bulliard. Woods. 

A, (russuid). Schaeffer. Among leaves in woods. 

A. salignus, Persoon. On trunks and stumps. 

A, spedosus. Fries. Grassy land. 

A, squamosus. Muller. Oak stumps. 

A. syivaticus. Schaeffer. Woods. 

A.tesseUatus, Bulliard. Pine trunks. 

A, ulmarius. Sowerby. Dead trunks. 
Boletus bovinus, I^innseus. Pine woods. 

B, castaneus. Bulliard. Woods. 
B, collinitus. Fries. Pine woods. 
B, edulis, Bulliard. Woods. 

B, elegans. Fries. Earth in woods. 

B, flavidus. Fries. Damp woods. 

B, granulatus, Linnaeus. Woods and fields. 

B.luteus, Linnaeus. Pine woods. 

B. scaber, Bulliard. Sandy woods. 

B, subtomentosus, Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

B. versipellis. Fries. Woods. 

Bovista nigrescens, Persoon. Grassy fields. 

B, plumbea, Persoon. Grassy fields. 
Cantfiarellus cibarius. Fries. Woods. 
Clavaria aurea, Schaeffer. Earth in woods. 

C, botritis, Persoon. Earth in woods. 
C cristata, Holmskiold. Damp woods. 
C.fasttgiata. Linnaeus. Grassy places. 
C.flava. Fries. Elarth in woods. 
Cfonnosa. Persoon. Earth in woods. 



INTRODUCTION 1 1 

Clavaria fuiigifua. Persoon. Shady woods. 

C macropus, Persoon. Earth. 

C. muscoides, Linnseus. Grassy places. 

Cpyxidata. Persoon. Rotten woods. 

C. rugosa, Bulliard. Damp woods. 

(7. subtilis. Persoon. Shaded banks. 

C, tetragona, Schwartz. Damp woods. 

Coprinus atrammtarius, Bulliard. Manured ground. 

C. comatus. Fries. In stable-yards. 

Cortinarius castatuus. Fries. Earth in woods. 

C. dnnamomeus. Fries. Earth and wood. 

C, violaceus. Fries. Woods. 

Fistulina hepatica. Fries. Base of trunks and stumps. 

Helvetia crispa. Fries. Pine in woods. 

Jf, infuia. Schaeffer. Earth and pine logs. 

IT, lacunosa, Afzelius. Near rotten logs. 

H. sulcata. Afzelius. Shady woods. 

Hydnum caput- medusa. Bulliard. Trunks and logs. 

H, coralloides, Scopoli. Side of trunks. 

H, imbricatum, Linnaeus. Earth in woods. 

H, laevigatuM. Schwartz. Pine woods. 

H, repandum, Linnaeus. Woods. 

JI. rufescens. Schaeffer. Woods. 

JET, subsquamosum. Batsch. Damp woods. 

Hygrophorus eburneus. Fries. Woods. 

If. pratensis. Fries. Hill-sides. 

Lactarius augustissimus, Lasch. Thin woods. 

Z. delidosus. Fries. Pine woods. 

Z. insulsus. Fries. Woods. 

L.piperatus, Fries. Dry woods. 

Z. subdulcis. Fries. Damp grounds. 

Z. volemus. Fries. Woods. 

Lycoperdon bovista, Linnaeus. Grassy lands. 

Pachyma cocas. Fries. Underground. 

Paxillus involutus. Fries. Sandy woods. 

Folyporus Berkeleii, Fries. Woods. 

P, confiuens. Fries. Pine woods. 

P, cristatus. Fries. Pine woods. 

P, frondorus. Fries. Earth and base of stumps. 

P, giganteus. Fries. Base of stumps. 

P, leucomelas. Fries. Woods. 

P, avinus. Schaeffer. Earth in woods. 

P, poripes. Fries. Wooded ravines. 

P, sulphureus. Fries. Trunks and logs. 

Marasmius oreades. Fries. Hill-sides. 

M, scorodaneus. Fries. Decaying vegetation. 



12 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Morchella Caroliniana, Bosc. Earth in woods. 
M. esculmta. Persoon. Earth in woods. 
Russula alutacea. Fries. Woods. 
Ji, kpida. Fries. Pine woods. 
R. virescens. Fries. Woods. 
Sparassis crispa. Fries. E^rth. 
S. iaminosa. Fries. Oak logs. 
Tretnella mesenterica, Retz. On bark. 



In the contemplation of such a generous natural 
larder as the above list implies, Dr. Badham's feeling 
allusion to the " hundred-weights of wholesome diet 
rotting under the trees," quoted in one of my earlier 
illustrated pages, will be readily appreciated. 

In the purposely restricted scope of these pages 
I have omitted a large majority of species in Dr. 

Curtis's list, known to be equally es- 

Restiicted culent with those which I have select- 
scope of this 7 f./y . . 

volume ed, but whose popular dtfferenttahon 
might involve too close discrimination 
and possibly serious error; and while my list is 
probably not as complete as it might be with per- 
fect safety, the number embraces species, nearly all 
of them what may be called cosmopolitan types, to 
be found more or less commonly throughout the 
whole United States and generally identical with Eu- 
ropean species. It will be observed that the list of 
Dr. Curtis is headed by three members of Amanitae. 
The particular species cited are well known to be 
esculent, but they are purposely omitted from my list, 
which for considerations of safety absolutely excludes 
the entire genus Amanita of the '' potson-cup'' which 
is discussed at some length in the succeeding chapter. 
For popular utility from the food standpoint my se- 



INTRODUCTION 1 3 

lection presents, to all intents and purposes, a more 
than sufficient list, the species being easily distin- 
guished, and, with proper consideration to their fresh- 
ness, entirely safe and of sufficient frequency in their 
haunts to insure a continually available mushroom 
harvest throughout the entire fungus season. 

The knowledge of their identities once acquired, 
it is perfectly reasonable to assert that in average 

weather conditions the fungus-hunter 

Fuapi^ food j^ confine himself to these varieties 
available and still be confronted with an embar- 
rassment of riches, availing himself of 
three meals a day, with the mere trouble of a ramble 
through the woods or pastures. Indeed, he may 
restrict himself to six of these species  the green 
Russula, Puff-ball, Pasture - mushroom, Campestris 
(meadow-mushroom). Shaggy-mane, and Boletus edu- 
lis  and yet become a veritable mycological gour- 
mand if he chooses, never at a loss for an appetiz- 
ing entree at his table. 

In the group of Russulae and Boleti alone, more 
than one conservative amateur of the writer's ac- 
quaintance finds a sufficient supply to meet all diet- 
ary wants. 

What a plenteous, spontaneous harvest of delicious 

feasting annually goes begging in our 

A neglected woods and fields ! 
harvest The sentiment of Dr. Badham, the 

eminent British authority on mush- 
rooms, years ago, in reference to the spontaneous 
perennial harvest of wild edible fungi which abound- 
ed in his country, going to waste by the ton, would 



14 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

appear to be as true to-day for Britain as when he 
uttered it, and applies with even greater force to the 
similar, I may say identical, neglected tribute of Nat- 
ure in our own American woods and fields, where the 
growth of fungi is especially rich. 

The fungus-eaters of Britain, it is said, are even 
to-day merely a conspicuous coterie, while in Amer- 
ica this particular sort of specialist is 
Fungus more generally an isolated " crank " who 
epicures is compelled to " flock alone," contem- 
plated with a certain awe by his less 
venturesome fellows, and otherwise variously consid- 
ered, either with envy of his experience and scientific 
knowledge, or more probably as an irresponsible, who 
continually tempts Providence in his foolhardy ex- 
periments with poison. 

But what a contrast do we find on the Continent in 
the appreciation of the fungus as an article of diet ! 
In France, Germany, Russia, and Italy, for example, 
where the woods are scoured for the perennial crop, 
and where, through centuries of popular familiarity 
and tradition, the knowledge of its economic value 
has become the possession of the people, a most im- 
portant possession to the poor peasant who, perhaps 

for weeks together, will taste no other 
Chemical animal food. I say '' animal food " ad- 
constituents visedly; for, gastronomically and chem- 
ically considered, the flesh of the mush- 
room has been proven to be almost identical with 
meat, and possesses the same nourishing properties. 
This animal affinity is further suggested in its physi- 
ological life, the fungus reversing the order of all 



INTRODUCTION 1 5 

other vegetation in imbibing oxygen and exhaling 
carbonic acid, after the manner of animals. It is not 
surprising, therefore, that the analogy should be still 
further emphasized by the discrimination of the pal- 
ate, many kinds of fungi when cooked simulating the 
taste and consistency of animal food almost to the 
point of deception. 

But in America the fungus is under the ban, its 
great majority of harmless or even wholesome ed- 
ible species having been brought into 
dtetrafft' f pop^^^r disrepute through the contami- 
fungi nation, mostly, of a single small genus. 

In the absence of special scientific 
knowledge, or, from our present point of view, its 
equivalent, popular familiarity, this general distrust 
of the whole fungus tribe may be, however, consid- 
ered a beneficent prejudice. So deadly is the insid- 
ious, mysterious foe that lurks among the friendly 
species that it is well for humanity in general that 
the entire list of fungi should share its odium, else 
those " toadstool " fatalities, already alarmingly fre- 
quent, might become a serious feature in our tables 
of mortality. 

But the prejudice is needlessly sweeping. A little 
so<:alled knowledge of fungi has often proven to be 

a "dangerous thing," it is true, but it 
Fungus food is quite possible for any one of ordinary 
for all intelligence, rightly instructed, to mas- 
ter the discrimination of at least 3,/ew 
of the more common edible species, while being thor- 
oughly equipped against the dangers of deadly vari- 
eties, whose identification is comparatively simple. 



l6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

It is idle to attempt an adjudication of the vexed 
** toadstool " and " mushroom " question here. The 

toad is plainly the only final, appealable 
 Toadstool" authority on this subject. It may be 
< mushroom " questioned whether he is at pains to de- 
termine the delectable or noisome qual- 
ities  from the human standpoint  of a particular 
fungus before deciding to settle his comfortable pro- 
portions upon its summit  if, indeed, he even so 
honors even the humblest of them. 

The oft-repeated question, therefore, " Is this fungus 
a toadstool or a mushroom ?" may fittingly be met by 
the counter query, " Is this rose a flower or a blossom?" 
The so-called distinction is a purely arbitrary, pop- 
ular prejudice which differentiates the " toadstool " as 
poisonous, the " mushroom " being considered harm- 
less. But even the rustic authorities are rather mixed 
on the subject, as may be well illustrated by a recent 
incident in my own experience. 

Walking in the woods with a country friend in 
quest of fungi, we were discussing this " toadstool " 

topic when we came upon a cluster of 

Popular mushrooms at the base of a tree-trunk, 

discrimination their broad, expanded caps apparently 

upholstered in fawn-colored, undressed 
kid, their under surfaces being stuffed and tufted in 
pale greenish hue. 

" What would you call those ?" I inquired. 
" Those are toadstools, unmistakably," he replied, 
" Well, toadstools or not, you see there about two 
pounds of delicious vegetable meat, for it is the com- 
mon species of edible boletus  Boletus edulisr 



INTRODUCTION 1 7 

A few moments later we paused before a beautiful 
specimen, lifting its parasol of pure white above the 
black leaf mould. 

" And what is this ?" I inquired. 

" I would certainly call that a mushroom," was his 
instant reply. 

This mushroom proved to be a fine, tempting speci- 
men of the Agaricus {amanita) vemus^ the deadliest 
of the mushrooms, and one of the most violent and 
fatal of all known vegetable poisons, whose attractive 
graces and insidious wiles are doubtless continually 
responsible for those numerous fatalities usually dis- 
missed with the epitaph, " Died from eating toad- 
stools in mistake for mushrooms." 

So much, therefore, for the popular distinction which 
makes " toadstool " a synonyme for " poisonous," and 
" mushroom " synonymous with " edible," and which 
often proves to be the "little knowledge" which is 
very dangerous. 

The too prevalent mortality traceable to the mush- 
room is confined to two classes of unfortunates: 

I. Those who have not learned that 

It^i!?**^ there is such a thinsr as a fatal mush- 
authorities on .  1 1  
< mushrooms" room; 2. The provmcial authority who 

can " tell a mushroom " by a number of 
his so-called infallible " tests " or " proofs." There is a 
large third class to whose conservative caution is to 
be referred the prevalent arbitrary distinction be- 
tween " toadstool " and " mushroom," ardent disciples 
of old TertuUian, who believed in regard to toadstools 
that " For every different hue they display there is 
a pain to correspond to it, and just so many modes 



1 8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of death as there are distinct species," and whose 
obstinate dogma, " There is only one mushroom, all 
the rest are toadstools," has doubtless spared them 
an occasional untimely grave, for few of this class, 
from their v^ry conservatism, ever fall victims to the 
" toadstool." 

And what a self-complacent, patronizing, solicitous 
character this rustic mushroom oracle is I Go where 
you will in the rural districts and you are sure of 
him, or perhaps her  usually a conspicuous figure 
in the neighborhood, the village blacksmith, perhaps, 
or the simpler "Old Aunt Huldy." Their father 
and "granther" before them "knew how to tell a 
mushroom," and this enviable knowledge has been 
their particular inheritance. 

How well we more special students of the fungus 
know him ! and how he wins our tender regard with 
his keen solicitude for our well-being ! We meet him 
everywhere in our travels, and always with the same 
old story ! We emerge from the wood, perhaps, with 
our basket brimful of our particular fungus tidbits, 
topped off with specimens of red Russula and Bole- 
tus, and chance to pass him on the road or in the 
meadow. He scans the basket curiously as he passes 
us. He has perhaps heard rumors afloat that " there's 
a city chap in town who is tempting Providence with 
his foolin' with tudstools ;" and with genuine solici- 
tude and superior condescension and awe, all be- 
trayed in his countenance, he must needs pause in 
his walk to relieve his mind in our behalf. I recall 
one characteristic episode, of which the above is the 
prelude. 



INTRODUCTION 1 9 

" Ye ain't a-goin' to eat tfiem, air ye ?" he asks, anx- 
iously, by way of introduction. 

" I am, most certainly," I respond ; " that is, if I 
can get my good farmer's wife to cook them without 

corning them and inundating them in 
Rustic lemon-juice." 
discrimination " Waal, then, TU say good-bye to ye," 

he responds, with emphasis. "Why, 
don't ye know them's tudstools, 'n' they'll kill ye as 
sartin zspizen? I wonder they ain't fetched ye afore 
this. You never larned tew tell mushrooms. My 
father et 'em all his life, and so hev I, 'n' I know 
'em. Come up into my garden yender 'n' I'll show 
ye haow to tell the reel mushroom. There's a lot 
of 'em thar in the hot-bed naow. Come along. I'll 
give ye a mess on 'em if ye'U only throw them pizen 
things away." 

" And how do you know that those in your garden 
arertdX mushrooms?" I inquire. 

"Why, they ain't anything like them o' yourn. 
They're pink and black underneath, and peel up from 
the edge." 

" How many kinds of mushrooms are there, do you 
suppose ?" I ask. 

" They's only the one kind ; all the others is tucU 
stools and pizen. It's easy to tell the reel mushroom. 
Come up and I'll show ye. Don't eat them things, I 
beg on ye I I vaow they'll kill ye I" 

At this point he catches a glimpse of a Shaggy- 
mane mushroom, which comes to light as I tenderly 
fondle the specimens, and which is evidently recog- 
nized as an acquaintance. 



20 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

"What!" he exclaims, in pale alarm. "Ye ain't 
goin' t' eat them too /" 

" Oh yes I am, this very evening," I respond. " I 
think I'll try them firstr 

" Why, man, yure crazy ! You don't know nothin' 
about 'em. I'd as soon think o' eatin' pizen outright. 

Them's what we call black -slime tud- 
A rustic stools. They come up out o' manure. 
authority I've seen my muck -heap in my barn- 
yard covered with the nasty things time 
'n' ag'in. They look nice 'n' white naow, but they 
rot into the onsiteliest black mess ye ever see. I 
know wut I'm sayin'. Ye can't tell me nothin' 'baout 
them tudstools! They keep comin' up along my 
barn-fence all thro' the fall  bushels of 'em." 

" Well, my good friend, it's a great pity, then, that 
you have not learned something about toadstools as 
well as mushrooms, for you might have saved many 
a butcher's bill, and may in the future if you will 
only take my word that this much-abused specimen 
is as truly a mushroom as your pink-gilled peeler, 
and to my mind far more delicious." 

" What ! Do you mean to tell me thet you have 
reely eaten 'em /" 

"Yes, indeed; often. Why, just look at its clean, 
shaggy cap, its creamy white or pink gills under- 
neath ; take a sniff of its pleasant aroma ; and here ! 
just taste a little piece  it's as sweet as a nut !" I 
conclude, offering him the white morsel. 

" Not much ! I'll make my will first, thank'ee ! 
You let me see ye eat a mess of 'em, and if the coro- 
ner don't get ye, p'r'aps I'll try on't." 



INTRODUCTION 2 1 

Experiences similar to this one are frequent in the 
career of every mycophagist, and serve to illustrate 
the pity and solicitude which he awakens among his 

fellow-mortals, as well as to emphasize 
'Toadstool" the prevalent superstitions regarding 
prejudice the comparative virtues of the mush- 
room and toadstool  a prejudice which, 
by-the-way, in the absence of available popular liter- 
ature on the subject, and the actual dangers which 
encompass their popular distinction, is a most benef- 
icent public safeguard. 

The mushroom which "he can tell" is generally 
the Agaricus campestris, or one of its several vari- 
eties; and knowing this alone, and 
^""^^^^^ tempted by no other, this sort of vil- 
superstitions lage Oracle escapes the fate which of- 
ten awaits another class, who are not 
thus conservative, and who extend their definition of 
mushroom (a word supposed to be synonymous with 
" edible "), and this mainly through the indorsement 
of certain so-called infallible tests handed down to 
them from their forefathers, and by which the escu- 
lent varieties may be distinguished from the poison- 
ous. By these so-called "tests" or "proofs" the 
identification of certain species is gradually acquired. 
The rural fungus epicure now "knows them by 
sight," or perhaps has received his information sec- 
ond-hand, and makes his selection without hesitation, 
with what success may be judged from the incident 
in my own experience already noted  one which, 
knowing as I did the frequency and confidence with 
which my country friend sampled the fungi at his 



22 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

table, filled me with consternation and anxiety for his 
future. 

" How, then, shall we distinguish a mushroom from 
a toadstool ?" 

There is no way of distinguishing them, for they 
are the same. 

" How, then, shall we know a poisonous toadstool 
from a harmless one ?" the reader hopelessly exclaims. 

This discrimination is by no means as difficult as 
is popularly supposed, but in the first place, the stu- 
dent must entirely rid himself of all preconceived 
notions and traditions, such as the following almost 
world-wide " tests," many of which are easily demon- 
strated to be worse than worthless, and have doubt- 
less frequently led to an untimely funeral. Some 
of these are merely local, and in widely separated 
districts are supplanted by others equally arbitrary 
and absurd, while many of them are as old as history. 



WORTHLESS TRADITIONAL TESTS FOR THE DISCRIMINA- 
TION OF POISONOUS AND EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

FAVORABLE SIGNS 

1. Pleasant taste and odor. 

2. Peeling of the skin of the cap from rim to centre. 

3. Pink gills, turning brown in older specimens. 

4. The stem easily pulled out of the cap and inserted in it 
like a parasol handle. 

5. Solid stems. 

6. Must be gathered in the morning. 

7. " Any fungus having a pleasant taste and odor, being found 
similarly agreeable after being plainly broiled without the least 
seasoning, is perfectly safe." 



INTRODUCTION 23 

UNFAVORABLE SIGNS 

8. Boiling with a ** silver spoon/' the staining of the silver in- 
dicating danger. 

9. Change of color in the fracture of the fresh mushroom. 

10. Slimy or sticky on the top. 

11. Having the stems at their sides. 

12. Growing in clusters. 

13. Found in dark, damp places. 

14. Growing on wood, decayed logs, or stumps. 

15. Growing on or near manure. 

16. Having bright colors. 

17. Containing milky juice. 

18. Having the gill plates of even length. 

19. Melting into black fluid. 

20. Biting the tongue or having a bitter or nauseating taste. 

21. Changing color by immersion in salt-water, or upon being 
dusted with salt. 

These present but a selection of the more preva^ 
lent notions. Taken tn toto, they would prove entirely 
safe, as they would practically exclude every species 
of mushroom or toadstool that grows. But as a rule 
the village oracle bases his infallibility upon two or 
three of the above " rules," and inasmuch as the entire 
list absolutely omits the aptly one test by which dan- 
ger is to be avoided, it is a seven-days' wonder that 
the grewsome toadstool epitaph is not more frequent. 

I once knew an aged dame who was accepted as a 
village oracle on this as well as other topics, such 

as divining, palmistry, and fortune-tell- 
Absoiute jj^or and who ate and dispensed toad- 

worthlessness ^ r , , 1 

of above tests stools on a few of the above rules. 

Strange to say, she lived to a good old 
age, and no increased mortality is credited to her 
memory as a result of her generosity. 



24 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

How are these popular notions sustained by the 
facts? Let us analyze them seriatim and confront 
each with its refutation, the better to show their en- 
tire untrustworthiness. 



POPULAR TESTS REFUTED 

Pleasant taste and odor (i) is a conspicuous feat- 
ure in the regular " mushroom " {Agaricus campestris), 

and most other edible fungi, but as a 

Worthless criterion for safety it is a mockery. 

popular tests The deadly Agaricus amanita, already 

mentioned, has an inviting odor and to 
most people a pleasant taste when raw, and being 
cooked and eaten gives no token of its fatal resources 
until from six to twelve hours after, when its unfort- 
unate victim is past hope. (See p. 68.) 

The ready peeling of the skin (2) is one of the most 
widely prevalent proofs of probation, and is often 
considered a sufficient test ; yet the Amanita will be 
found to peel with a degree of accommodation which 
would thus at once settle its claims as a " mushroom." 
Indeed, a large number of species, including several 
poisonous kinds, will peel as perfectly as the Cam- 
pestris. 

The pink gills turning brown (3) is a marked char- 
acteristic of the " mushroom " [A. campestrisy Plate 5), 
and, being a rare tint among the fungus tribe, is really 
one of the most valuable of the tests, especially as it 
is limited by rules affecting other pink-gilled species. 

The stem being easily pulled out of the cap (4) ap- 



INTRODUCTION 2$ 

plies to several edible species, but equally to the poi- 
sonous. 

The notion that edible mushrooms have solid stems 
(5) would be a very unsafe talisman for us to take 

to the woods in our search for fungus- 
Worthless food. Many poisonous species are thus 
popular tests solid  the emetic Russula, for example 

 while the alleged importance of the 
morning specimens (6) is without the slightest foun- 
dation. 

The passage quoted here (7), or a statement to the 
same effect, was quite widely circulated in the news- 
papers a dozen or more years ago, in an article which 
bore all the indications of authoritative utterance, 
the assumption being that the poisonous mushroom 
would invariably give some forbidding token to the 
senses by which it might be discriminated. 

Woe to the fungus epicure who should sample his 
mushrooms and toadstools on such a criterion as this, 
as the most fatal of all mushrooms^ the Amanita ver- 
nus, would fulfil all these requisites. 

The discoloration of silver (3) is a test as old as 
Pliny at least, a world-wide popular touchstone for the 
detection of deleterious fungi, but useful only in the 
fact that it will often exclude a poison not contem- 
plated in the discrimination. On this point, especially 
as it affords opportunity to emphasize a common dis^ 
appointment of the mushroom-eater, I quote from a 
recent work by Julius A. Palmer (see Bibliography, 
No. 3): " Mushrooms decay very rapidly. In a short 
time a fair, solid fungus becomes a mass of mag- 
gots which eat its tissue until its substance is honey- 



26 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

combed ; these cells, on a warm day, are charged with 
the vapors of decomposition. Now you put such 

mushrooms as these (and I have seen 

Worthless just such on the markets of Boston and 
popular tests London) over the fire. In boiling, sul- 
phuretted hydrogen or other noxious 
gases are liberated ; you stir with a bright spoon and 
it is discolored ; proud of your test, you throw away 
your stew. Now this is right, but if from this you 
conclude that all fungus which discolors silver is poi- 
sonous and that which leaves it bright is esculent, you 
are in dangerous error. It is the same with fish at 
sea. Tradition says that you must fry a piece of sil- 
ver with them and throw them away if it discolors. 
Certainly the experiment does no harm, and shows a 
decomposition in both cases which might have been 
detected without the charm." Opposed to this so- 
called talisman, how grim is the fact that the deadli- 
est of all mushrooms, the Amanita, in its fresh condi- 
tion, has no effect upon silver. 

The change of color in fracture (9) has long been 
a ban to the fungus as food. But this would ex- 
clude several very delicious species, which turn blu- 
ish, greenish, and red when broken  viz.. Boletus sub- 
tomentosus (Plate 22), Boletus strobilaceus (Plate 23), 
and Lactarius (Plate 18). 

The ''toadstools'^ with ''sticky tops'' thus discrimi- 
nated against (10) include a number of esculent spe- 
cies, Boleti and Russulae, and others, as do also the 
varieties with side-stems (11)  viz., Agaricus ulma- 
rius (Plate 15), Fistulina hepatica (Plate 25), Agaricus 
ostreatus (Plate 14), etc. 



INTRODUCTION 2/ 

The clustered fungi {\2) have long been included in 
the black-list without reason, as witness the following 

esteemed esculent species: The Shag- 

WorthleAs gy-mane (Plate i6), Coprinus atramen- 
popular tests tarius (Plate 17), Oyster mushroom 

(Plate 14), Elm mushroom (Plate 15), 
Puff-balls (Plate 34), and Champignon (Plate 8). 

To exclude all fungi which grow in dark^ damp 
places (13) is a singular inconsistency, as in some 
localities this would eliminate the very one species of 
"mushroom" admittedly eatable by popular favor. 
In many countries these are regularly cultivated for 
market in dark, damp, subterranean caverns or in 
cellars. Indeed, the " dark, damp place" would appear 
to be the ideal habitat of this the " only mushroom !" 

Equally absurd is the discrimination against those 
growing on wood (14), which again deprives us of 
the delicious Hydnum (Plate 27), the Beefsteak (Plate 
25), Oyster mushroom (Plate 14), Elm mushroom 
(Plate 15), and many others, including Puff-balls 
(Plate 34). If we exclude those growing upon or 
near manure (15), we shall be obliged to omit the 
Coprinus group (Plates 16 and 17), and often the 
" reel mushroom " as well. 

Among the bright-colored species (16), it is true, 
are many dangerous individuals, as, for instance, the 
deadly Fly Amanita of Plate 4, and the emetic 
Russula (Plate 13), but on this fiat we should have to 
reject the other brilliant esculent Russulae (Plates 1 1 
and 12), the brilliant yellow Chantarelle (Plate 19), 
the Lactarius (Plate 18), and various other equally 
palatable and wholesome species. 



28 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The objection against milky mushrooms (17) would 
serve to exclude the poisonous species of Lactarius, 

but would thus include at least two of 

Worthless the delicious species of the group, L. 
popular tesu deliciosus, with orange milk (Plate 18), 

and L. piperatus^ another species with 
white milk not figured in this volume. 

The group of Russulae, most of which are esculent, 
is notable for their ^7/y of even length (18), though 
not all the species are thus characterized. This 
discrimination, however, especially applies to the 
Shaggy-mane (Plate 16), which is conspicuously even- 
gilled, and is a decided delicacy. 

This species, together with its congener, the edible 
Coprinus atramentarius (Plate 17), are notorious for 
their melting into black fluid (19), which is thus of no 
significance as a test, although the mushrooms are not 
supposed to be eaten in this stage of deliquescence. 

A fungus which bites the tongue (20) when tasted 
would naturally be excluded from our mushroom diet, 
as would also, of course, those of a bitter or nauseat- 
ing taste : but several species, notably the Lactarius 
piperatus, as its name implies, is very hot and peppery 
when raw  a characteristic which disappears in cook- 
ing, after which it is perfectly esculent. The same 
applies in a scarcely less degree to the Agaricus 
melleus, and less so to the Hydnum repandum (Plate 
27), and other mushrooms. But the poisonous Rus- 
sula emetica (Plate 13) gives this same hot, warning 
tang, and this rule (17) would at least thus exclude 
the harmful species, and is thus contributive to pop- 
ular safety. 



INTRODUCTION 29 

The salt test (21), with that of the silver charm, is 
also a relic of the dim past, but is absolutely useless 

as a touchstone. Many poisonous spe- 

Worthiess cies, notably the Amanita, fail to answer 

popular tests to it. All authorities agree, however, 

that the addition of salt in cooking, or 
the preparatory soaking of specimens in brine, has a 
tendency to render poisonous species innocuous. In- 
deed, it is claimed that in Russia and elsewhere on 
the Continent many admittedly poisonous species, 
even the deadly Fly Amanita, is habitually eaten sub- 
sequent to this semi- corning process, by which the 
poisonous chemical principle is neutralized. 

Among this long list, and many other equally 
arbitrary and ignorant prejudicial traditions, many 

of which date back to the earliest 
Omission times, it is indeed astonishing to note 

of the only ' .  

true test the conspicuous aoseuce of the one and 

only valuable sign by which the fatal 
species could be unmistakably determined  a symbol 
which was reserved for botanical science to discover: 
the presence of the " cup " in the Amanita, which is 
pointedly emphasized in my Frontispiece, and the im- 
portance of which as a botanical and cautionary dis- 
tinction is considered at more length in the following 
chapter. 

It is well to consider for a moment what is im- 
plied in 

"A POISONOUS MUSHROOM" 

A fungus may be poisonous in various ways : 
I. A distinct and certain deadly poison. 



30 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. The cause of violent digestive or other func- 
tional disturbance, but not necessarily fatal. 

3. The occasion of more or less serious physical 
derangement through mere indigestibility. 

4. Productive of similar disorders through the em- 
ployment of decayed or wormy specimens of perfectly 
esculent species. 

5. These same esculent species, even in their fresh 
condition, may become highly noxious by contact or 
confinement with specimens of the Amanita by the 
absorption of its volatile poison, as further described 
on p. 69. 

And lastly comes the question of idiosyncrasy, a 
consideration which is of course not taken into ac- 
count in our recommendation of cer- 
Concernins tain well-established food varieties* 
idiosyncrasy " One man's food another man's poi- 
son." The scent of the rose is some- 
times a serious affliction, and even the delicious straw- 
berry has repeatedly proven a poison. Even the 
most wholesome mushroom will occasionally require 

to be discriminated against, as certain 
Decaying individuals find it necessary to exclude 
mustirooms cabbage, milk, onions, and other com- 
mon food from their diet. When we 
reflect, moreover, that in its essential chemical affin- 
ities the fungus simulates animal flesh, and many 

of the larger and more solid varieties 

Fresh are similarly subject to speedy decom- 

specimens position, it is obviously important that 

all fungi procured for the table should 
be collected in their prime^ and prepared and served as 



INTRODUCTION 3 1 

quickly as possible. More than one case of supposed 
mushroom poisoning could be directly traced to care- 
lessness in this regard, when the species themselves, 
in their proper condition, had been perfectly whole- 
some. 

There can be no general rule laid down for the 
discrimination of an edible fungus. Each must be 

learned as a species, or at least famil- 

No general Jarized as a kind, even as we learn to 

rule for 

identificatioii recognize certain flowers, trees, or birds. 

Within a certain range this discrim- 
ination is practised by the merest child. How are 
the robin, the chippy, and the swallow recognized, or 
the red clover, and white clover, and yellow clover ? 
Even in the instances of species which bear a very 
close outward similarity, how simple, after all, does 

the distinction become. Here, for in- 
Simpie stance, is the wild-lettuce, and its mimic, 

botanical . . 

discrimination the mulgedium^ growing side by side  

to ninety-nine out of a hundred observ- 
ers absolutely alike^ and apparently the same species. 
But how readily are they distinguished, I will not say 
by the botanist merely, but by any one who will take 
the small pains of contrasting their specific botanical 
characters  perfectly infallible, no matter how vari- 
ous the masquerade of their foliage. The lettuce has 
yellow blossoms, and a seed prolonged into a lottg 
beak, to whose tip the feathery pappus is attached. 
The mulgedium has dull bluish flowers, and its pap- 
pus is attached to the seed by a hardly perceptible 
elongation. As with the birds and wild-flowers, so 
with the fungi: we must learn them as species, even 



32 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as we learn to distinguish the difference between the 
trefoil of the clover and that of the wood -sorrel, or 
between the innocuous wild -carrot and the poison- 
hemlock, the harmless stag-horn sumach and its 
venomous congener, the Rhus venenata. There are 
parallel outward resemblances between esculent and 
poisonous fungi, but each possesses otherwise its 
own special features by which it may be identified  
variations of gills, pores, spores, taste, odor, color, 
juice, consistency of pulp, method of decay, etc. 

It must not be presumed that the list of edible 
species just cited from the catalogue of Dr. Curtis 
includes all the esculents among the fungi. Dr. 
Harkness has discovered and classified many others. 
Mr. Palmer and Prof. Charles Peck are never at a 
loss for their " mess of mushrooms " among their list 
of nearly a hundred species, while Mr. Charles Mcll- 
vaine, whose name, so far as its practical authority 
is concerned, should appear more prominently in my 
bibliographical list, but who has not yet incor- 
porated his many mycological essays in book form, 
writes me that he has tested gastronomically a host 
of species, and has found over three hundred to be 
edible, or at least harmless. It may be said that the 
probabilities would include a large majority of the 
thousand species in the same category. But this is 
a matter which, in the absence of absolute knowl- 
edge, is mere conjecture. 

Of the forty-odd species which the writer enjoys 
with more or less frequency at his table, he is satis- 
fied that he can select at least thirty which possess 
such distinct and strongly marked characters of form, 



INTRODUCTION 33 

structure, and other special qualities as to enable 
them, by the aid of careful portraiture and brief de- 
scription, to be easily recognized, even by a tyro. 

As previously emphasized, the present work does 
not aim to be complete, nor does it contemplate a 
practical utility beyond its specific recommendations, 
nor will the author assume any responsibility for the 
hazard which shall exceed its restricted list of species. 

On general principles, however, considering the 
proneness of humanity towards the acquisition of for- 
bidden fruit, and reasoning from my 

Humanity ^^j^ actual experience, and that of 

forbidden fruit many others to whom this fascinating 

hobby of epicurean fungology has be- 
come a growing passion, it may almost be assumed 
that the fungus appetite with many of my readers 
will increase by what it feeds on, and the sufficiency 
herewith offered will scarcely suffice. Like Oliver 
Twist, they must needs have more. The glory of a 
new acquisition to the fungus menu, and emulation 
of other rival tyro mycophagists, will doubtless lead 
many enthusiasts to more or less hazardous experi- 
ment among the legion of the unknown species. 
This logical tendency, then, must be met ere my 
book can safely and conscientiously be launched 
upon its career, to which purpose I would append 
the following condensed 

RULES FOR THE VENTURESOME 

I. Avoid every mushroom having a cup^ or sugges- 
tion of such, at base (see Frontispiece, and Plates 3 
and 4) ; the distinctly fatal poisons are thus excluded. 



34 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

2. Exclude those having an unpleasant odor, a 
peppery, bitter, or other unpalatable flavor, or tough 
consistency. 

3. Exclude those infested with worms, or in ad- 
vanced age or decay. 

4. In testing others which will pass the above pro- 
bation let the specimen be kept by itself ^ not in con- 
tact with or enclosed in the same basket with other 
species, for reasons given on page 69. 

Begin by a mere nibble, the size of a pea, and gen- 
tle mastication, being careful to swallow no saliva, and 

finally expelling all from the mouth. 
Testing If no noticeable results follow, the next 

new species trial, with the interval of a day, with 

the same quantity may permit of a 
swallow of a little of the juice, the fragments of the 
fungus expelled as before. 

No unpleasantness following for twenty-four hours, 
the third trial may permit of a similar entire fragment 
being swallowed, all of these experiments to be made 
on "an empty stomach." If this introduction of the 
ytual substance of the fungus into the stomach is 
superseded by no disturbance in twenty-four hours, a 
larger piece, the size of a hazel-nut, may be attempted, 
and thus the amount gradually increased day by day 
until the demonstration of edibility, or at least harm- 
lessness, is complete, and the species thus admitted 
into the " safe " list. By following this method with 
the utmost caution the experimenter can at best suffer 
but a slight temporary indisposition as the result of 
his hardihood, in the event of a noisome species hav- 



INTRODUCTION 35 

ing been encountered, and will at least thus have the 
satisfaction of discovery of an enemy if not a friend. 

It may be said that any mushroom, omitting the 
Amanita, which is pleasant to the taste and other- 
wise agreeable as to odor and texture when raw, is 
probably harmless, and may safely be thus ventured 
an with a view of establishing its edibility. A prom- 
inent authority on our edible mush- 
nr. nciivaine's rooms, already mentioned, applies this 

general rule rule to all the Agarics with confidence. 

" This rule may be established," he 
says: "All P^%z,TiGS^ excepting the Amanita  mild 
to the taste when raw, if they commend themselves 
in other ways, are edible." This claim is borne out 
in his experience, with the result, already told, that 
he now numbers over one hundred species among 
his habitual edible list out of the three hundred 
which he has actually found by personal test to be 
edible or harmless. "So numerous are toadstools," 
he continues, "and so well does a study of them 
define their habits and habitats, that the writer never 
fails upon any day from April to December to find 
ample supply of healthy, nutritious, delicate toadstools 
for himself and family^ The italicized portion is 
my own, as I would thus emphasize the similar pos- 
sibilities amply afforded even in the present con- 
densed list of about thirty varieties herein described. 

In gathering mushrooms one should be supplied 
with a sharp knife. The mushroom should be care- 
fully cut off an inch or so below the cap, or at least 
sufficiently far above the ground to escape all signs 
of dirt on the stem. They should then be laid gills 



36 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

upward in their receptacle, and it is well to have a 
special basket, arranged with one or two removable 

bottoms or horizontal partitions, which 
Hints to ^ ^j.g j^gp^ jj^ place by upright props 

gatherers within, thus relieving the lower layers 

of mushrooms from the weight of those 
above them. Such a basket is almost indispensable. 
Before preparing mushrooms for the table, the 
specimens should be carefully scrutinized for a class 

of fungus specialists which we have 
inse^ not taken into account, and which have 
mushrooms probably anticipated us. The mush- 
room is proverbial for its rapid de- 
velopment, but nature has not allowed it thus to 
escape the usual penalties of lush vegetation, as wit- 
ness this swarming, squirming host, minute grubs, 
which occasionally honey-comb or hollow its entire 
substance ere it has reached its prime; indeed, in 
many cases, even before it has fully expanded or 
even protruded above ground. 

Like the carrion-flies, the bees, and wasps, which in 
early times were believed to be of spontaneous origin 

 flies being generated from putrefac- 

History of tion, bees from dead bulls, and the mar- 

funs:us insects tial wasps from defunct "war-horses" 

 these fungus swarms which so speed- 
ily reduce a fair specimen of a mushroom to a melt- 
ing loathsome mass, were also supposed to be the 
natural progeny of the "poisonous toadstool." But 
science has solved the riddle of their mysterious om- 
nipresence among the fungi, each particular swarm 
of grubs being the witness of a former visit of a ma- 



INTRODUCTION 37 

ternal parent insect, which has sought the budding 
fungus in its haunts often before it has fully revealed 

itself to human gaze, and implanted 

History of within its substance her hundred or 
fongus insects more eggs. To the uneducated eye 

these larvae all appear similar, but the 
specialist in entomology readily distinguishes between 
them as the young of this or that species of fly, gnat, 
or beetle. 

As an illustration of the assiduity with which the 
history of these tiny scavenger insects has been follow- 
ed by science, I may mention that in the gnat group 
alone over seven hundred species have been discov- 
ered and scientifically described, many of them re- 
quiring a powerful magnifier to reveal their identities. 

Specimens of infected or decaying mushrooms pre- 
served within a tightly closed box  and, we would 
suggest, duly quarantined  will at length reveal the 
imago forms of the voracious larvae: generally a swarm 
of tiny gnats or flies, with an occasional sprinkling 
of small glossy black beetles, or perhaps a beautiful 
indigo -blue insect half an inch in length, of most 
nervous habit, and possessed of a long and very ac- 
tive tail. This insect is an example of the curious 
group of rove-beetles  staphylinus  a family of insect 
scavengers, many of whose species depend upon the 
fungi for subsistence. 

Even the large woody growth known as " punk " 
or " touchwood," so frequently seen upon decaying 
trunks, is not spared. A huge specimen in my keep- 
ing was literally reduced to dust by a single species 
of beetle. 



38 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Considering the prevalence of these fungus hosts, 
it is well in all mushrooms to take the precaution 

of making a vertical section through 
A wise stem and cap, excluding such speci- 
precaution mens as are conspicuously monopo- 
lized, and not being too critical of the 
rest, for the over - fastidious gourmet will often 
thus have little to show for his morning walk. I 
have gathered a hundred specimens of fungi in 
one stroll, perhaps not a quarter of which, upon 
careful scrutiny, though fair of exterior, would be 
fit for the table. The fungus - hunter /ar excellence 
has usually been there before us and left his mark 
(see page 135)  a mere fine brown streak or tunnel, 
perhaps, winding through the pulp or stem, where 
his minute fungoid identity is even yet secreted. 
But we bigger fungus -eaters gradually learn to ac- 
cept him  if not too outrageously promiscuous  
as a natural part and parcel of our Hachis atix 
Champignons y or our simple mushrooms on toast, 
even as we wink at the similar lively accessories 
which sophisticate our delectable raisins, prunes, and 
figs, to say nothing of prime old Rochefort ! 

MUSHROOM POISONING 

In conclusion, lest these pages, in spite of the im- 
press of caution with which they are weighted, should 
lead to discomfiture, distress, or more serious results 
among their more careless readers, it is well to devote 
a few lines to directions for medical treatment where 
such should seem to be required. To this end I 
quote a passage from an article in the Therapeutic 



INTRODUCTION 39 

Gazette of May, 1893, from the pen of Mr. Mcllvaine, 
whose many years' experience with gastronomic fun- 
gi entitles his words to careful consideration : 

" The physician called upon to treat a case of toad- 
stool poisoning need not wait to query after the va- 
riety eaten ; he need not wish to see a 

^^^^^s^^ sample. His first endeavor should be 

and * . ... 

treatment to ascertain the exact time elapsing be- 
tween the eating of the toadstools and 
the first feeling of discomfort. If this is within four 
or five hours one of the minor poisons is at work, and 
rapid relief must be given by the administration of 
an emetic, followed by one or two moderate doses of 
sweet-oil and whiskey, in equal parts. Vinegar is ef- 
fective as a substitute for sweet-oil. If from eight to 
twelve hours have elapsed, the physician may rest as- 
sured that amanitine is present, and should adminis- 
ter one-sixtieth of a grain of atropine at once." 

This atropine is intended to be injected hypoder- 
mically, and the treatment repeated every half -hour 
until one-twentieth of a grain has been given, or the 
patient's life saved. 

Further consideration of the Amanita and its 
deadly poison and antidote, with details as to treat- 
ment in a notable case, will be reserved for the fol- 
lowing chapter. 

The colored plates in the volume were prepared 
from pencil drawings tinted in water-color, many of 
them direct from nature, several dating back fifteen 
years, and many of them over twenty years, for their 
original sketch. The colors as presented indicate 
those of typical individuals of the various species, and 



40 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

each, in addition to the extended description in the 
text of the volume, is faced by a condensed description 
for ready reference, the usual troublesome necessity 
of turning the pages being thus avoided. 

In each plate dimension marks are shown which 
indicate the expansion of the pileus or cap of the 
fungus in an ideal specimen. 



In the preparation of this work, acknowledgments 
are specially due to Messrs. Julius A. Palmer and 

Charles Mcllvaine for the privilege of 

Acknowledff- liberal quotations from their published 

menu works, especially with reference to the 

poisonous fungi. The volume is also 

further indebted for occasional extracts from the 

standard works of Prof. Chas. Peck, Mrs. T. J. Hus- 

sey, Rev. Dr. C. D. Badham, Rev. Dr. M. C. Cooke, 

Rev. J. M. Berkeley, Worthington Smith, and Rev. 

M. A. Curtis, all of whose volumes and various other 

contributions on the special subject of mycophagy 

are included in my bibliography on a later page. j 

W. Hamilton Gibson I 

October r, 1894 Washington, Conn. 



ita 




wan da 



HE frequency of this terrible foe in all 
our woods, and the ever- recurring fa- 
talities which are continually traced to 
its seductive treachery (some twenty -five 
deaths having been recorded in the public 
journals during the summer of 1893 alone), render 
it important that its teeth should be drawn, and its 
portrait placarded and popularly familiarized as an 
archenemy of mankind. 

As we have seen, from every superficial standpoint, 
this species is self-commendatory. It is, without 

doubt, in comeliness, symmetry, and 
structure, the ideal of all our mush- 
rooms, as it is, indeed, the botanical 
type of the tribe Agaricus, as well as 
its most notorious genus. Since the time of that 
carousing young lunatic Nero, who, doubtless, was 
wont to make merry with its "convenient poison," 
upon one occasion, it is recorded by Pliny, to the 
presumably amusing extinction of the entire guests 
of a banquet, together with the prefect of the guard 
and a small host of tribunes and centurions, the 
Amanita has claimed an army of victims. 

While giving no superficial token of its dangerous 



A whited 
sepulchre 



44 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

character to the casual observer, the Amanita, as a 
genus and a species, is nevertheless easily identified, 
if the mushroom collector will for the moment con- 

sider it from the botanical rather than 

id^ilied ^^ sensuous or gustatorial standpoint 

botanicaiiy The deadly Amanita need no longer 

impose upon the fastidious feaster in 
the guise of the dainty " legume " of his menu, or as 
a contaminating, fatal ingredient in the otherwise 
wholesome ragout. 

In Plate 3 I have presented the reprobate Amanita 
vernus in its protean progressive proportions from in- 
fancy to maturity. This is especially 
Amanita desirable, in that the fungus is equally 
vernus dangerous as an infant, and also be- 
cause the development of its growth 
specially emphasizes botanicaiiy the one important 
structural character by which the species or genus 
may be easily distinguished. Let us, then, consider 
the specimen as a type of the tribe Agaricus (gilled 
mushroom, see p. 79), genus Amanita. 

Year after year we are sure of finding this species, 
or others of the genus, especially in the spring and 
summer, its favorite haunt being the woods. Its 
spores, like other mushrooms, are shed upon the 
ground from the white gills beneath, as described in 
our chapter on " Spore-prints," or wafted to the ends 
of the earth on the breeze, and eventually, upon hav- 
ing found a suitable habitat, vegetate in the form of 
webby, white, mould-like growth  mycelium  which 
threads through the dead leaves, the earth, or decaying 
wood. This running growth is botanicaiiy considered 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 47 

as the true fungus, the final mushroom being the 
fruity whose function is the dissemination of the 
spores. After a rain, or when the conditions are 
otherwise suitable, a certain point among this webby 

tangle beneath the ground becomes 

Vegetation suddenly quickened into astonishing 

of an Agaric cell-making energy, and a small round- 

ed nodule begins to form, which con- 
tinues to develop with great rapidity (Plate 2). In a 
few hours more it has pushed its head above ground, 
and now appears like an egg, as at A, Plate 3. The 
successive stages in its development are clearly in- 
dicated in the drawings. Each represents an interval 
of an hour or two, or more, the most suggestive and 
important feature being the outer envelope, or volva^ 
which encloses the actual mushroom  at first com- 
pletely, then in a ruptured condition, until in the ma- 
ture growth the only vestige of it which appears 
above ground are the few shreds generally, though 
not always, to be seen on the top of the cap. The 
fnost important character of this deadly Amanita is, 

therefore, apparently with almost artful 

Tiie danger malice prepense, often concealed from 

signal our view in the mature specimen, the 

only remnant of the original outer sack 
being the cup or socket about the base of the stem, 
which is generally hidden under ground, and usually 
there remains after we pluck the specimen. 

This " poison-cup " may be taken as the cautionary 
symbol of the genus Amanita, common to all the spe- 
cies. Any mushroom or toadstool, therefore, whose 
stem is thus set in a socket, or which has a^iy suggestion 



48 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of such a socket^ should be labelled ^'poison "; for, though 
some of the species having this cup are edible, from 
the popular point of view, it is wiser and certainly 

safer to condemn the entire group. 
The But the cup must be sought for. We 

poison-cup shall thus at least avoid the possible 

danger of a fatal termination to our 
amateur experiments in gustatory mycology; for, 
while various other mushrooms might, and do, in- 
duce even serious illness through digestive disturb- 
ance, and secondary, possibly fatal, complications, 
the Amanita group are now conceded to be the only 
fungi which contain a positive, active poisonous prin- 
ciple whose certain logical consequence is death. 

Another structural feature of the Amanita is shown 
in the illustration, but has been omitted from the 

above consideration to avoid confusion. 

The veil" This IS the "veil " which, in the young 

or shroud mushroom, originally connected the 

edge of the cap, or pileus, with the 
stem, and whose gradual rupture necessarily follows 
the expansion of the cap, until a mere frill or ring 
is left about the stem at the original point of contact. 

But this feature is a frequent character in many 
edible mushrooms, as witness the several examples in 
the edible species of our plates, and therefore of no 
dangerous significance per se, being merely a mem- 
brane which protects the growing gills. 

Nor are the other features, the remnants of the 
volva on the summit of the cap, to be considered of 
primary importance from the popular point of view, 
for the reason  firstly, that these fragments, while con- 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 5 1 

spicuous and constant in Amanita muscarius (Plate 
4), are not thus permanent in several other species 
of Amanitae, notably the white-satin -capped Ama- 

nita vemus, Amanita phalloides^ and 

Scales and Amanita Casarea^ in which the frag- 

scurfy spots ments are deciduous ; and, secondly, 

because the same general effect of 
these warty scales is so clearly imitated in other 
mushrooms which are distinctly edible, as in exam- 
ples Plate 10 and Plate i6. It is to the volva or 
cup, then, that we must devote our special attention 
as the only safe and constant character. And this 
leads me to the prominent and necessary considera- 
tion of another common species of Amanita, men- 
tioned above, in which even this cup is more or less 
obscure. 

THE POISONOUS FLY- MUSHROOM 
Agaricus (Amanita) muscarius 

This, one of the most strikingly beautiful of our 
toadstools, is figured in Plate 4. Its brilliant cap of 
yellow, orange, or even scarlet, studded with white 

or grayish raised spots, can hardly be 
A deceptive unfamiliar to even the least observant 
Amanita country walker. Its favorite habitat is 
the woods, and, in the writer's experi- 
ence especially, beneath hemlocks and poplars, where 
he has seen this species year after year in whole 
companies, and in all stages shown in the plate at 
the same time, from the globular young specimen 
almost covered with its white warts just lifting its 
head above the brown carpet to the fully expanded 



52 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

4 

individual, in which the spots have assumed a 
shrunken and brownish tint. 

The consideration of this species is of the utmost 
importance^ as its beauty is but an alluring mask, 
which has enticed many to their destruction ; among 
the more recent of its conspicuous victims having 
been the Czar Alexis of Russia. For this is another 
cosmopolitan type of mushroom, common alike in 
America, Great Britain, Europe, and Asia, in all of 
which countries it is notorious for its poisonous re- 
sources. It is commonly known as the " Fly-agaric," 

its substance macerated in milk having 
Used as a been employed for centuries as an ef- 
fly- poison factual fly-poison. After the readers 

introduction to the botanical character 
of the Amanita, he would, presumably, be somewhat 
suspicious of the present species. The suggestive 
white or dingy fragments upon its cap, it is true, 
would alone arouse his suspicions, but in the exami- 
nation of the stem for the telltale volva or cup its 
verification might be somewhat in doubt. It is for 
this reason that the species is emphasized in these 

pages, as the Amanita muscariuSy judg- 

its ing from the great dissimilarity of its 

obscure cup numerous portraits from all countries, 

would seem to be remarkably protean, 
especially with reference to its stalk. The majority 
of the portraits of this reprobate presents the volva 
as distinct and as clean cut as in the A. vernus just 
described, and the stalk above as equally smooth, 
features which are usually at variance with the as- 
sociated botanical description of the species, which 



G^manitao mudcazia^ 



TLATE IV 

FLY MUSHROOM 
Asrarieus (Amanita) muscarius 

Pileus: Diameter three to six inches, quite flat at maturity; 

color brilliant yellow, orange, or scarlet, becoming pale 

with age, dotted with adhesive white, at length pale 

brownish warts, the remnants of the volva. 
Gills: Pure white, very symmetrical, various in length, the 

shorter ones terminating under the cap with an almost 

vertical abruptness. 
Spores : Pure white. A spore-print of this species is shown 

in Plate 37. 
Stem : White, yellowish with age, becoming shaggy, at length 

scaly, the scales below appearing to merge into the form 

of an obscure cup. 
Volva: Often obscure, indicated by a mere ragged line of 

loose outward curved shaggy scales around a bulbous 

base. 
Flesh: White. 
Habitat: Woods and their borders, especially favoring pine 

and hemlock. 
Season : Summer and autumn. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA S7 

often characterizes the volva as " incomplete " or " ob- 
scure," and the stem as " rough and scaly." If the 
portraits in these works are correct, the Amanita 
qualities of the species are clearly displayed, but if 
their accompanying descriptions are to be credited, 
and such seem to be in perfect accord with the spec- 
imens which I have always found, the A. muscarius 
would seem in need of a more authentic historian. 

The example figured in the plate presents the 
stem and volva as they have always appeared in 
specimens obtained by the writer. In the young 
individuals the stem is waxy-white, becoming later 
a dull, pale ochre hue, the lower half being shaggy 
and torn, and beset with loose projecting woolly 
points which resolve themselves below into scales 
with loose tips curved outward, and so distantly dis- 
posed upon the bulbous base as to leave no marked 
definition of the continuous rim or opening of a cup. 
But the cup is there, and in a section of the bud state 
of the mushroom could have been seen, even as in the 
white warts upon the surface of the younger speci- 
mens we note the evidences of the upper portion of 

the same white volva. In many other 
Volva scales species of Amanita, notably A. vernus, 
permanent as already mentioned, these volva frag- 
ments generally wither and are shed 
from the cap. They are thus not to be counted on 
as a permanent token. But in the fly -mushroom 
they form a distinct character^ as they adhere firmly 
to the smooth skin of the pileus, and in drying, instead 
of shrivelling and curling and falling off, simply 
shrink, turn brownish, and in the maturely expanded 



58 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

mushroom appear like scattered drops of mud which 
have dried upon the pileus. Another pecuHar struct- 
ural feature of this mushroom is shown in the sec- 
tional drawing herewith given. The shorter gills, 
instead of rounding off as they approach the pileus 




FLY- AMANITA 



(see a\ terminate abruptly almost at right angles to 
their edge. The contrast from the usual form will 
be more apparent by comparison with the section of 
the parasol -mushroom on page 114. 

Few species of mushrooms have such an inter- 
esting history as this. Its deadly properties were 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 59 

known to the ancients. From the earliest times its 
deeds of notoriety are on record. 

This is quite possibly the species alluded to by 
Pliny as "very conveniently adapted for poisoning," 

and is not improbably the mushroom 
Historical referred to by this historian in the fol- 
Amanita lowing quotation from his famous Nat- 
ural History: " Mushrooms are a dainty 
food, but deservedly held in disesteem since the no- 
torious crime committed by Agrippina, who through 
their agency poisoned her husband, the Emperor 
Claudius; and at the same moment, in the person 
of her son Nero, inflicted another poisonous curse 
upon the whole world, herself in particular." 

Notwithstanding its fatal character, this mushroom, 
it IS said, is habitually eaten by certain peoples, to 
whom the poison simply acts as an intoxicant. In- 
deed, it is customarily thus employed as a narcotic 
and an exhilarant in Kamchatka and Asiatic Russia 

generally, where the Amanita drunkard 

Amanita Supplants the opium fiend and alcohol 

dipsomaniacs dipsomaniac of other countries. Its 

narcotizing qualities are commemo- 
rated by Cooke in his Seven Sisters of Sleepy wherein 
may be found a full description of the toxic employ- 
ment of the fungus. 

The writer has heard it claimed that this species 
of Amanita has been eaten with impunity by certain 
individuals; but the information has usually come 
from sources which warrant the belief that another 
harmless species has been confounded with it. The 
warning of my Frontispiece may safely be extended 



6o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

to the fly-amanita. Its beautiful gossamer veil may 
aptly symbolize a shroud. 

By fixing these simple structural features of the 
Amanita in mind, and emphasizing them by a study 
of our Frontispiece, we may now consider ourselves 

armed against our greatest foe, and 

Forewarned ^^y ^j^j^ some assurance make our 

forearmed limited selection among this lavish lard- 
er of wild provender continually going 
to waste by the ton in our woods and pastures and 
lawns. For it is now a fact generally believed by 
fungologists, and being gradually demonstrated, that 
the edible species, far from being the exception, as 
formerly regarded, are the rule; that a great majority 
of our common wild fungi are at least harmless, if 
not positively wholesome and nutritious as food. 

THE POISONOUS ALKALOID 

The toxic and deadly effects of certain mushroom 
poisons, as already described, have been known since 
ancient times; and the prolonged intoxicating de- 
bauches to-day prevalent among the Amanita dipso- 
maniacs of Northern Russia and Kamchatka, con- 
sequent upon the allurements of the decoction of the 
fly-agaric, are well-known matters of history. 

The true chemical character of this poison, however, 
was not discovered until 1868, when it was successfully 
isolated by chemical analyses of Drs. Vigier, Schmiede- 
berg, Currie, and Koppe, and ascertained to be an 
alkaloid principle, to which was given originally the 
name of bulbosine, since variously known- as musca- 
rine, and finally and most appropriately amanitine. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 6 1 

The poison thus identified, it was reserved to an 
American authority on edible fungi, Mr. Julius A. 

Palmer, of Boston, to discover the fact 
Mr. Palmer's of its confinement to but one fungus 
discovery family  the Amanita. 

In the year 1879, in an article con- 
tributed by him to the Moniteur Scieniifique, of 
Paris, he states : 

" Mushrooms are unfit for food by decay or other 
cause, producing simply a disagreement with the sys- 
tem by containing some bitter, acrid, or slimy element, 
or by the presence of a wofider/ul and dangerous alka- 
loid which is absorbed in the intestinal canal. This 
alkaloid, so far as known, is found only in the AmO' 
nita family r 

To Mr. Palmer, then, is due the chemical segrega- 
tion of the Amanita group as the only repository of 
this deadly toxic. 

It has not been discerned in other species of fungi, 
whose so-called "poisonous" effects are more often 

traceable to mere indigestibility, the 

Lesser selection of "over-ripe" specimens, or 

poisoning to idiosyncrasy, rather than to their 

distinctly poisonous properties. 
Many mushrooms of other families which do pos- 
sess ingredients chemically at war with the human 
system  as the Russula emetica and certain Lac to- 
riiy for instance  at least give a fair warning, either 
by taste or odor, of their dark intentions. 

Owing to the numerous deaths every year conse- 
quent upon mushroom -eating, and nearly always 
directly traceable to the Amanita, the discovery of 



62 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

an antidote to this poison has been the quest of 
many noted chemists  several supposed antidotes 

having been experimented with upon 

Antidote dogs and other animals without desired 

for Amanita results. These included atropine, the 

deadly crystalline alkaloid from the 
Atropa belladonna. The earlier experiments upon 
animals with this drug in Paris, as described by Dr. 
Gautier in 1884, while encouraging, were not con- 
sidered conclusive, but were sufficient to warrant 
the suggestion that the treatment upon man might 
be effective. In a resume of the subject in the 
Philadelphia Medical and Surgical Reporter^ De- 
cember, 1885, for the benefit of the medical prac- 
titioners who are so frequently called upon to attend 
cases of mushroom poisoning, Captain Charles Mcll- 
vaine recommended the administration of a dose of 
atropine of from 0.05 to 0.0002 milligramme, and it 

was later reserved for the same gentle- 
First authentic man to witness the first authentic in- 
appiication stance of the application of this remedy 

in antagonism with the Amanita poison 
in the human system. The report of this experi- 
ence was afterwards published (see Bibliography, 
No. 6), embodying also a complete and authentic ac- 
count of the symptoms and treatment of the cases 
by the attending physician, Dr. J. E. Shadle, of 
Shenandoah, Pa., which account I feel is appropri- 
ately included here, being in full sympathy with the 
solicitous spirit of my pages. I therefore quote the 
statement of Dr. Shadle for the benefit of those in- 
terested. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 63 

Shenandoah, Pa., October 26, 1885. 
Mr. Chas. McIlvaine : 

My dear Sir, In compliance with your request, I take pleasure 
in submitting to your consideration the following report of five 
cases of toadstool-poisoning which recently came under my ob- 
servation and treatment : 

On Monday, August 31, at 10 a.m., I was hastily called to see 
a family, consisting of Mr. F., his wife, his mother-in-law, Mrs. R., 

and his brother-in-law, Thomas R., who, the 
Amanita messenger stated, were having *' cramps in the 
poisoning bowels." 

symptoms Promptly responding to the call, I found them 

suffering from intense abdominal pains, nausea, 
vomiting, boneache, and feelings of distress in the precordial 
region. 

Mr. F., twenty-nine years of age, was a miner by occupation, 
and had led an intemperate life. Mrs. F., twenty-two years of 
age, was a brunette, possessing a delicate body, and bearing a 
decided neurotic tendency. Mrs. R., forty-five years of age, was a 
small nervo-bilious woman. Thomas R., thirteen years of age, was 
a youth well developed. 

While I was examining these patients, Mrs. B., forty years of 
age, a neighbor of the family, presented herself, manifesting in a 
milder degree the same symptoms. She was a tall, spare woman. 
Previous to their present attack of illness their general health was 
good \ in none could signs of disease be traced. 

Picture to your mind five persons suffering from cholera morbus 
in its roost aggravated form, and you will be enabled to form a 
pretty correct idea of what I beheld in the Faris residence on 
Monday morning, August 31. 

That five individuals, four being members of one household, 
should be attacked simultaneously by a similar train of symptoms, 
naturally gave rise in my mind to a suspicion that something poi- 
sonous had been eaten. Upon close inquiry I obtained the fol- 
lowing history : 

On the afternoon of Sunday, August 30, Mr. F. and Thomas R. 
were walking through a wood not far distant from their home, 
and, in wandering from place to place, found clusters of very 



64 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

beautiful toadstools growing abundantly under trees, among which 
the chestnut predominated. 

Attracted by their appearance, and supposing them to be edi- 
ble, they gathered a large quantity, with the anticipation of hav- 
ing a delicious dish for their Sunday evening 

Amanita eal. 

poi5onlng Various other kinds were growing in the same 

symptoms locality, but this particular variety impressed 

them as being the most inviting. A correct 
specimen of the fungus they had collected having been sent 
you, I will leave its botanical description to your pen. 

At about nine o'clock, five hours after gathering them, Mrs. F. 
cooked three pints of the toadstools, stewing them in milk, and 
seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt. 

They had dinner at a very early hour on this day, and by the 
time they had supper all felt exceedingly hungry, in consequence 
of which they ate quite heartily. Mrs. F. and her brother vied 
with each other as to the quantity they could eat. In addition 
to this dish, bread and butter and coffee were served. 

Soon after supper the family retired. None experienced the 
least discomfort until towards daybreak, when considerable dis- 
tress in the abdominal organs and cerebral disturbance manifested 
themselves. Prominent among the initial symptoms were foul 
breath, coated tongue, pain in the stomach, nausea, and a peculiar 
sickening sensation in the epigastrium. These symptoms gradual- 
ly increased in severity, and in twelve hours after the ingestion 
of the poison, when I made my first visit, the condition of the 
victims involved great danger. Intense vomiting was present in 
four, while in Mrs. R.'s case a violent retching seemed to persist. 

Gastro-intestinal irritation, followed by a relaxed condition of 
the bowels, showed itself in about thirty hours after the onset of 
the more active symptoms. With the appearance of this trouble 
an insufferable tenesmus developed, producing paroxysms of 
severe agony. This was particularly true in the case of Mrs. R., 
whose suffering was so great that it became a formidable symptom 
to combat. Upon the subsidence of the more severe symptoms, 
the patients fell into a state of extreme prostration, accompanied 
by stupor and cold extremities. In the mother, son, and daughter 
this was profoundly marked. They were completely indifferent 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 6$ 

to persons and things around them, as well as to their own suf- 
fering. 

As the symptoms increased in violence, Thos. R. advanced into 
a state of coma, and Mrs. F. into coma vigil, and remained so for 

about twelve hours prior to death. The face 

Amanita ^^^ ^ shrunken and wrinkled appearance, the 

poisoning eyes were sunken, the skin was dusky, and the 

. symptoms surface of the body was dry and cold to the 

touch. The pulse, a number of hours before 
death, was imperceptible at the wrist, and the heart-sounds were 
scarcely perceived by auscultation. 

The pulse in all cases was notably affected, ranging from 120 
to 140 per minute. In character it was soft and compressible ; 
intermittent at intervals. 

There was a distinct rise of temperature ; the thermometer in 
the axilla registered as much as 140 F. 

A mild form of delirium was an occasional event In the case 
of Mrs. F. it formed an important element 

Respecting the special senses, it is well to mention that sight 
was peculiarly affected. Notwithstanding the fact that the pupils 
responded kindly to the action of the light, an unpleasant sensa- 
tion of blindness frequently appeared, and continued for a few 
minutes. 

In spite of all that was done to counteract its ravages, the ef- 
fects of the poison were so extremely deadly that a fatal issue 
was the result in two cases. Thomas R. died in fifty-six and Mrs. 
F. in sixty-three hours after the ingestion of the toadstools. 
Treatment  The treatment instituted was mainly symptomatic. 
Fearing that undigested particles of toadstools might still be 
lying in the gastro-intestinal tract, to Mrs. R., who had not freely 

vomited, an emetic was administered, and to 
Amanita ^^ rest a mild purge. 

poisoning An intense thirst and a burning sensation 

treatment being present in the mouth, throat, and stomach, 

small pieces of cracked ice were freely used with 
a view to allaying it. 

For the gastro-intestinal irritation I prescribed with satisfactory 
results the following : 



66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

B^ Bismuth subnit. , 3v ; 
Creosote, gtt. xv ; 
Mucil. acaciae, ff i ; 
Aq. menth. pip., q.s. ad ffiii. M. 
Sig.  Teaspoonful every one or two hours. 

Vs gr^in of morph. sulph. was administered hypodermically to 
alleviate as much as possible the abdominal suffering. 

The impending exhaustion and the failing heart's action I en- 
deavored to combat with a free administration of alcoholic stimu- 
lants in combination with moderate doses of tincture of digitalis 
both by the mouth and under the skin. 

In order to invite the circulation of the blood to the ice-cold 
surface of the body, heated bricks and bottles filled with hot water 
were placed in bed around the patients. 

Analyzing each symptom as it arose, and carefully observing 
the effects of the poison on the system, I formed the opinion that 

the toxic element contained in the noxious fun- 
gus eaten by these people was narcotic in its 
Diagnosis nature and spent its force on the nerve centres, 

especially selecting the one governing the func- 
tion of respiration and the action of the heart. 

Acting upon this conclusion, I began, in the early part of my 
treatment, subcutaneous injections of sulphate of atropine in fre- 
quently-repeated doses, ranging from y^'u ^^ tAt g^^a-in. The in- 
jections invariably were followed by a perceptible improvement in 
the patient ; the heart's action became stronger, the pulse returned 
at the wrist, and the respiration increased in depth and fulness. 

Through the agency of this remedy, supported by the other 
measures adopted, three (or sixty per cent.) of the patients re- 
covered. 

The lessons I draw from this experience are : 

1. The poisoning produced by this variety of toadstool is slow 
in manifesting its effects. 

2. That it destroys life by a process of asthenia. 

3. That in atropine we have an antidote, and it should be pushed 
heroically from the earliest inception of the action of the poison. 

I have the honor to remain 

Yours very respectfully, 

J. E. Shadle, M.D. 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 6/ 

In reply to the queries, Was atropine administered 
in all the cases? and What was the total amount 
administered to each ? Dr. Shadle responded as fol- 
lows: 

Shenandoah, Pa., October 29, 1885. 
My dear Mr. McIlvaine : 

Yours of the 27th I have received. The two questions you ask 
me therein I see are very important, and they should be answered 
as fully as possible. I am sorry I overlooked the matter in my 
report. 

Before attempting an answer, it is well for me to note right 
here that Mrs. B., the neighbor, did not eat very much of the 

toadstool stew ; Mrs. R. and Mr. -F. each ate 

. about the same quantity  from one and one- 

- . half to two platefuls. This is according to 

Faris's statement. But the two fatal cases  

Thomas R. and Mrs. F.  tried to see which 

could eat the most, and consequently got their full share of the 

poison. The cat mentioned before had about a tablespoonful of 

the broth, and they tell me she was very sick. Whether or not 

she died is not known. 

Now as to the treatment by atropine, I think I can approximate 
a pretty correct statement in reply to your queries. Not knowing 
that atropine was considered an antidote, I began its employment 
in the treatment of these cases from the physiological knowledge 
I had of the drug relative to its action in other diseases in which 
there was heart-failure and embarrassed respiration. 

When I saw the U. S. Dispensatory suggested it, I of course felt 
it my duty to use it, as I could find nowhere anything else men- 
tioned as an antidote. I feel convinced that it was by means of 
the atropine that I saved three of the five patients. Why do I 
think so ? Because whenever I would administer the remedy the 
patient^rallied, the pulse returned at the wrist, the heart-sounds 
became stronger, and the respiration increased in strength and 
fulness. What more conclusive evidence do I want than this to 
show as to how the agent was acting ? 

When I first saw the patients  twelve hours after the ingestion 



6S EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of the poison  their symptoms were alike, one suflFering as much 
as the other (August 31). I began the use of the alkaloid in 

the evening of the same day, when 1 saw the 

Administration powers of life giving way, the heart failing, and 

of antidote the respiration becoming shallow. It was used 

in all the case$. as follows : 

Mrs. B., Yh^ ^ ih* o^ y|o, or ^ gr. 

Mr. F., jiff, ^, ^, ^, or j^j^ gr. 

Mrs. R., -rhr, ^, -J^, ^, or y|^ gr. 

Thos. R., y|^, t*5r ihi A -At* ^^ tItj oJ" A gr. 

Mrs. R, T-i^, tjV, tjV ^ ^ or Yb, or ^ gr. 

In accordance with the above formulae the drug was admin> 
istered. I visited the patients at intervals of six or eight hours, 
and at each visitation they received an injection in the doses 
above mentioned. From this we see that in all Mrs. B. received 
gr. ^ of atropine ; Mr. F. received gr. ^Jir o^ atropine ; Mrs. R. 
received gr. y|^ of atropine ; Thos R. (fatal) received gr. ^ of 
atropine ; Mrs. F. (fatal) received gr. ^ of atropine. 

The alkaloid failing to save the two that died I think can be 
attributed to one of two causes, or probably both : 

1. That the use of atropine was begun too late and not used 
heroically enough. 

2. That so much of the poison was taken up by the system in 
these cases that it became too virulent to counteract. 

From the history of the cases I know they ate by far the largest 
quantity. My opinion leans towards the first probable cause I 
have mentioned. 

Another fact worth stating here is that the pupils never became 
affected by the administration of these doses. 

Hoping this will make the matter satisfactory, I remain 

Yours truly, J. E. Shadle. 

The interval between the ingestion and the symp- 
toms is, therefore, a most important aid in the diag- 
nosis of a case of mushroom poisoning ; and in the 
event of an Amanita, heretofore absolutely fatal, it is 
presumably under the control of medical science, now 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 69 

that the deadly toxic principle has at last found its 
enemy in the neutralizing properties of the equally 
deadly atropine. 

It would seem, moreover, from the severe personal 
experience of Mr. Julius A. Palmer, that the poison 
of the Amanita is quite capable of mischief without 
being taken into the digestive organs. So volatile is 
this dangerous alkaloid that it may produce violent 
effects upon the system either through its odor alone, 
or by simple contact with the skin and consequent 
absorption. 

Mr. Palmer, in his before-mentioned article in the 
Moniteur Scie^ttifique^ Paris, relates the following ex- 
periences : 

" Once while perspiring from a long walk I under- 
took to bring in a large bunch of the Amanita for 

an artist. Seated in a close car, hold- 

b'^^'^^tlict ^"S them in my warm hand, although 
and odor protected by a paper wrapper, a fearful 

nausea overcame me. The toadstool 
was not at first suspected, yet I had all the symptoms 
of a sea-sick person, and was only relieved by a 
wide distance between myself and the exciting cause. 

" While writing this article," he continues, " a friend 
sent me two very elegant specimens of the Amanita 
tribe. They were in a confined box. On opening 
it I smelled of them a few times, and allowed the 
box to lie near my desk while I wrote to a medical 
gentleman anxious to procure such for chemical ex- 
periment. Having sent them away the matter was 
dismissed from my mind for three hours after, when, 
by an attack of vomiting and oppression at the stom- 



70 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ach, they were enforced upon my attention. The 
whites of my eyes became livid, and even until noon 
the day following the leaden color of my face was 
noticed by more than one person." 

The moral of this story is that the less the reader 
has to do with Amanita fungi the better. Let them 

have a wide berth, or at most an an- 
A wide berth nihilating kick, lest by their alluring 

to Amanita beauty they tempt the next unwary 

traveller who shall encounter them. 

But you desire a specimen " to show a friend," or 
"to make a photograph of, or a sketch," perhaps. 
In such case it were well to consider further the ex- 
periences of Mr. Palmer, which will show the wisdom 
of keeping your gustatorial and artistic mycology 
in separate expeditions, or at least of providing your 
poison-exhaling Amanita specimen with a cage by it- 
self. In the same article he continues : 

" Mushrooms make the same use of the atmosphere 
as men, even their exhalations are accordingly viti- 
ated with their properties. Those not 

Mushrooms deadly thus attack humanity  namely, 

toy contact by absorption of their essential elements 

by the whole system. They also hi- 
cculate each other with or without contact, so that if 
edible and noxious toadstools are gathered together the 
former will absorb the properties of the latter' 

In proof of this assertion he instances a personal 
experience as follows : " About four years ago a num- 
ber of poisonous mushrooms (not Amanitae, but of a 
totally different family) were sent me with edible fun- 
gus. The two varieties had lain twelve hours in the 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 71 

W 

same box. The noxious ones were rejected, and the 
esculent washed and eaten. In a moment my appe- 
tite was gone ; violent perspiration, vertigo, and trem- 
bling were the next symptoms ; then chills, nausea, 
purging, and tenesmus, all within thirty minutes. Now 
the substance could not have reached the intestines. 
The virus absorbed from the noxious fungus perme- 
ated the whole system through eating the harmless 
ones ; unmixed with other food it acted upon the 
muscles through an empty stomach ; once spent, the 
ailment passed off," etc. 

From these and other experiences he draws the 
following conclusions: The poisonous principle of a 

fungus being absorbed by a harmless 
Poison element, if the latter be eaten the ven- 

extracted 

by vinegar om acts more quickly. In reinforce- 
ment of this he states that "if the 
Amanita be cut in sections and laid in vinegar the 
fungus may be eaten without danger to life ; but on 
a very small dose of the vinegar, death will follow 
more speedily than if the whole toadstool be eaten." 
Further interesting matter upon this topic is con- 
tained in the article from which I quote, and to 
which the reader is referred in his volume included 
in my bibliographical list. The work also contains 
numerous other collected articles of Mr. Palmer's 
upon this subject of fungi, to which he has devoted 
so much attention, and with which his name has be- 
come so popularly identified in America. 

The allusion to vinegar as an absorbent of the poi- 
son suggests the prevalent habitual use of salt as a 
safeguard by many in the employment of the fungus 



^2 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

as food, as both of these ingredients play a prominent 
part in a fungus cuisine. It is averred by some writ- 
ers that one of the most noxious of 
Effect of salt Amanitas  the Fly-agaric  is eaten in 
and heat some countries, notably Russia, without 

unpleasant results, while it is confident- 
ly asserted to be harmless after, as it were, having 
its venom drawn by a soaking in brine previous to 
cooking. Boiling  both in the possible neutralizing 
of the poison through heat, and in the withdrawal of 
the same in the solution  would also be contributive 
to safety in such cases, provided the tainted liquid 
were not retained as in a stew or soup. 

On this topic it is interesting to note the epicure- 
an perversity of a certain French author, who, in the 

face of the already overwhelming abun- 
Epicurean dance of nature's esculent species of 
perversity fungi, must needs include all the deadly 

Amanitas as well, though he gives a rec- 
ipe by which the poison is extracted by the copious 
aid of salt, vinegar, boiling water, and drawing. This 
process, on general principles, might invite humorous 
speculation as to the appetizing qualities of the resid- 
ual morsel thus acquired, or as to the advisability of 
deliberately selecting a poisonous substance for the 
desideratum of the washed-out, corned, spiced, non- 
descript remnant which survives the process of ex- 
traction, not only of its noxious properties, but of 
even what nutriment it might possibly contain. 

Fancy a beefsteak similarly " prepared," all its nour- 
ishing ingredients extracted and thrown away ; its ex- 
hausted remnant of muscular fibre now the mere ab- 



THE DEADLY AMANITA 73 

sorbent vehicle for vinegar, salt, lemon-juice, butter, 
nutmeg, garlic, spice, cloves, and other seeming indis- 

pensables to the preparation of the 
Mushrooms Champignon a la mode / 
k la mode The verdict of the extreme fungus 

epicure upon the delectable flavor of 
this or that mushroom must indeed be taken cum 
grano salts, the customary culinary treatment, or 
maltreatment, of these delicately flavored fruits hav- 
ing for its apparent object the elimination as far 
as possible of any suggestion of the true flavor of 
the fungus. I fancy that even the caustic, rebellious 
root of the Indian -turnip or the skunk-cabbage thus 
tamed and subdued in a smothering emollient of 
spiced gravy or ragout might negatively serve a pur- 
pose as more or less indigestible pabulum. 

While, as already mentioned, a few of this genus 
Amanita are edible, it is well in concluding our 

chapter to emphasize the caution of 
Enough with- an earlier page as to the absolute ex- 
out Amanita elusion of the entire genus from the 

bill of fare of the amateur mycophagist. 
There is an abundance of wholesome, delicious fungi 
at our doors without them. 

Many species of Amanita are to be found more or 
less frequently in company with the esculent varieties 
recommended in the chapters following. . Among 
these the two extremes of variation from the typical 
form are seen in the A. muscarius in its permanent 
retention of the volva scales and the obscurity of its 
cup, and in the A.phalloides, herewith pictured about 
half natural size, with the frequent entire absence of 



74 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

these remnant scales, which wither and fall off, leav- 
ing the yellowish or greenish cap perfectly smooth. 

It is to the volva or cup, then, that we must turn 
for the one fixed permanent character by which this 
genus is to be identified. 




AMANITA F HALLO IDES 



a 



'" UR introductory description of the Ama- 
nita presents the most perfect botan- 
ical type of a large division of the 
 fungus tribe, the Agaricacea, or gill- 
' bearing mushrooms, one of the two 
great orders of fungi which include the large major- 
ity of edible species. 

A brief consideration of the general classification 
of fungi will not be out of place at the head of this 
chapter. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FUNGI 

A fungus is a cellular cryptogamous (flowerless) 
plant, nourished through its spawn or mycelium in 
place of roots, living in air, and propagated by spores. 

Fungi  mycetes  are naturally subdivided into two 
great divisions: 

1. Sporifera  those in which the spores or repro- 
ductive bodies are naked or soon exposed, as shown 
in illustration on page 79. 

2. Sporidiifera  in which the spores are envel- 
oped in sacs or asci. These resemble in shape the 
tystidiunt of illustration on page 79. 



78 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



The first of these divisions  the Sporifera, or 
naked-spored fungi  is again subdivided into four 
families, as follows : 

1. Hymenomycetes. Hymenium, or spore- bearing 
surface, exposed and conspicuous, as seen in the 
common mushroom and all Agarics and Polyporei. 

2. Gasteromycetes {gaster^ a belly). Hymenium, or 
spore -bearing surface, enclosed in a more or less 
spherical case, called the peridium, which ruptures 
and expels the spores at maturity in the form of dust, 
as in the puff-balls. 

3. ComomyceteSy from the Greek /ca/i9, meaning 
dust, the entire fungus having a dust-like appearance. 
Mildew forms a good example of this family. 

4. HyphomyceteSy from the Greek v^a, meaning a 
thread. Thread-like fungi, the filaments being more 
conspicuous than the spore masses, of which group 
blue-mould affords an illustration. 

The Hymenomycetes (i) is again subdivided into 




six orders, the discrimination being based on the 
diverse character of the spore surface. The first of 
these orders is the Agariciniy or gill -bearing fungi, 
to which our present chapter will be confined. 



AGARICINI 

In this order the hymenium, or spore -bearing sur- 
face, is inferior, i.e., on the under side of the pileus, 
and is spread over lamellae or gills, which radiate 
from the stem of the fungus, and each of which may 
be separated into two filmy flat divisions. 

On the opposite page is shown an Agaric in ver- 
tical section, disclosing a full side view of the gills. 
A highly magni- 
fied view of this Cjwtidium 
gill -surface is in- 
dicated herewith, jie^iig ceii 
duly indexed, the 

sporophore being Sporophore 

shown in the act of ' 

shedding its spores ^ 
from their points 

of attachment to " spormurface magnified 
the four stigmata 

at the summit. These fruitful four-pointed sporo- 
phores or basidia are intermingled with the cystidia 
and sterile cells, the whole mass forming the surface 
of the hymenium. The dissemination of the Agaric 
is further considered in a later chapter on "Spore- 
prints." 

The most perfect botanical type of the Agarics 
is the Amanita, already sufficiently dwelt upon. 

We will now proceed to the consideration of other 
examples in which the symbol of the fatal cup is 
happily absent, and whose identities as esculent spe- 
cies are clearly denoted by individual characteristics. 



EDIBLE AGARICS 



MEADOW MUSHROOM 
Agaricus campestris 

Perhaps the one species which enjoys the widest 
range of popular confidence as the " mushroom " in 
the lay mind, as distinguished from " toadstool," is the 
Agaricus campestris^ known as the " meadow mush- 
room "(Plate 5). It is the species commonly exposed 

in our markets. Its cultivation is an 
The" important industry, but it often yields 

mushroom an enormous spontaneous harvest in 

its native haunts. The plate shows 
a cluster of the mushrooms in their various stages 
of development, the detached specimen below rep- 
resenting the semi -opened condition in which the 
fungus is usually gathered for market. It will be ob- 
served that the base of the stem is entirely free from 
any suggestion of a volva or cup. As its popular 
name implies, this species in its wild state is one of 
the voluntary tributes of our late summer and autumn 
meadows and pastures, though it may occasionally 
frequent lawns, shrubberies, and barn-yards. In size 

it varies from two to three and a half 

Description inches across the pileus or cap, which is 

Campestris either smooth or slightly rough, scaly, 

or scurfy, and creamy white or tawny in 
color, according to age or variety. The most im- 
portant distinguishing feature of this species is the 
color of the gills. If we break away the " veil " in the 




azicud campedtzid 



TLATE V 

"THE MUSHROOM" 

Agarieus campestris 

Pileus : At first globular, its edge connected to stem by the 
veil ; then round convex, at length becoming possibly 
almost flat. Surface dry, downy, or even quite scaly, 
varying in color from creamy white to light brown. 
Diameter at full expansion, about three inches. 

Gills : Unequal in length ; pink when first revealed, becoming 
brownish, brown, purplish, and finally almost black. 

Stem: Solid; of the color of the cap; paler and white in 
section, retaining the remnant of the veil in a permanent 
ragged ring. 

Spores: Brown. 

Taste : Sweet and inviting, and odor agreeable. 

Habitat: Pastures, lawns, and open rich soil generally. 

Season: Late summer and early autumn, occasionally in 
spring. 






Agaricus Campestris. 



AGARICS 85 

unopened specimen, we find them to be of a pallid 
flesh tint. In the more advanced state they become 
decidedly pinkish, with age and expansion gradually 
deepening to purplish, purple-brown, and finally brown- 
ish black. The gills are of unequal lengths, as shown 
in the section. The stem is creamy white and of solid 
substance, and always shows the remains of the veil 
in a persistent frill or ring just beneath the cap. 

Doubtless a sufficient and satisfactory reason for 
the universal dignity which this species has acquired 

as "the mushroom" may be found in 

Cultivation the fact that it is the only species 
of muslirooins prominently under cultivation, and al- 
most the only one which is sure to 
respond to the artificial cultivation of its spawn in 
the so-called "mushroom bed." The "spawn" of 
the Campestris has thus become a mercantile com- 
modity, duly advertised in the seedsmen's catalogues. 

This so-called spawn is in truth nothing but the 
mycelium, or subterranean vine of the mushroom (see 

Plate 2), taken from the beds in which 

Mushroom the mushrooms have been grown, or 
 spawn "bed in which the mycelium has been culti- 
vated. The cultivator simply prepares 
a " bed " to receive it  duplicating as far as possible 
the soil conditions from which it was taken, whether 
from foreign cultivation or his old manure-bed or 
stable-yard  a rich, warm compost of loam and horse- 
manure, this latter ingredient being a most important 
consideration, as the fungus in its several varieties, 
notably the larger, Agaricus arvensis, known as the 
"horse-mushroom," has followed the track of the horse 

6 



86 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

around the world. These natural conditions having 
been even approximately fulfilled, will, within two 
months, generally reward the cultivator with a crop of 
mushrooms, which, with the continued ramifications of 
the mycelium permeating the muck as the yeast fun- 
gus permeates the home-made loaf, will insure a con- 
tinual succession of crops for weeks or months, to be 
renewed spontaneously, perhaps, the following season. 

The present volume, having specific reference to 
fungi in their wild state, and the celebration of their 
esculent virtues, being thus essentially in antithesis 
to artificial culture, further consideration of the cul- 
tivation of the mushroom is omitted. The reader is 
referred to the volumes in my bibliographical list, 
Nos. 8 and 22, in which full instructions will be found. 

The Campestris is conspicuous among mushrooms 
in its ready accommodation to artificial imitation of 

its native environment. There is no 
Species other mushroom which is thus confi- 

opposed to 

cultivation dently to be relied on. Other species  

not a dozen, however, out of the thou- 
sands  will occasionally reward the cultivator, who 
has devoted the most scrupulous care to the humor- 
ing of their fastidious conditions of growth. Thus 
the Agaricus cafidicans of the Italian markets is said 
to have been successfully raised from chips of the 
white poplar which have been properly covered with 

manure. Other species, it is claimed. 

Certain can be humored from a block of the 

exceptions cob-nut tree after singeing its surface 

over burned straw, while Dr. Thore 
claims that both Boletus edulis, and Agaricus pro- 



AGARICS 87 

cerus are " constantly raised by the inhabitants of his 
district from a watery infusion of said plants poured 
upon the ground." The truth of these statements 
has been denied by authorities, and individual exper- 
iment will only tend to discredit their trustworthiness. 
In general the mushroom or toadstool absolutely re- 
fuses to be " coaxed or cajoled." The mycelium of all 
is practically identical; but species such as the Co- 
prinus, for instance, which are perhaps found growing 
naturally in company with the Campestris, and whose 
spawn is similarly transplanted to the artificial en- 
vironment, will show no sign of reappearance, while 
its fellow may literally crowd the bed. 

The " fairy-ring " mushroom grows year after year 
upon our lawn, because its mycelium is continually 
present, simply threading its way outwardly, inch by 
inch, in the congenial surrounding soil. Instances 
are reported of the occasional successful establishment 
of this mushroom in new quarters by the transfer of a 
clod of earth threaded with mycelium taken from the 
" fairy-ring " to another lawn, in which the immediate 
soil conditions happened to be harmonious, and this 
method of actual transference of the spawn might oc- 
casionally be effectual. But the writer, in his limited 
number of experiments, has never yet been able to 

propagate a mushroom by a transfer of 

Not to be the spores to soil where the conditions 
humored would appear to be exactly suitable. 

On a certain lawn, for instance, every 
year I obtain a number of the Coprinus comatus (Plate 
16). Upon another lawn, apparently exactly similar 
as to soil conditions, I transfer the melting mushroom 



88 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

where it sheds its inky spore-solution upon the earth, 
and yet, after years of waiting, there is no response. 
Even an absolute transfer of the webby spawn from 
the original haunt has proven equally without result. 
Thus while the habitual fungus-hunter comes to rec- 
ognize a certain logical association between a given 
character of natural haunt and some certain species 
of fungi  a prophetic suspicion often immediately 
fulfilled  as when he inwardly remarks, as he comes 
upon an open, clear spot in the woods, " This is an ideal 
haunt for the green Russula," and instantly stumbles 
upon his specimen; yet he may take the pallid spawn, 
with a small clod of earth from its roots, and place it 
in the mould not ten feet distant, apparently in iden- 
tically auspicious conditions, and it absolutely refuses 
to bq humored. He may mark the spot, and look 
in vain in its precincts for a decade for his Russula, 
though the ground in the vicinity be dotted with them. 

Year after year I have thrown my refuse specimens 
of hundreds of species of fungi out of my studio win- 
dow, over the piazza rail or upon my 
Dormant lawn, yet never with the slightest sign 
spores that one of the millions of spores in the 
species thus sown has vegetated. 

Considering the ready accommodation of the Cam- 
pestris, the contrast of the fastidiousness in other spe- 
cies is a notable phenomenon.* As a rule, " they will 
not colonize ; they will not emigrate ; they will not 
be cheated out of their natural possessions: they re- 
fuse to be educated, and stand themselves upon their 
single leg, as the most independent and contrary 
growth with which man has to deal." 



<l 



AGARICS 91 

The Campestris is probably the most protean of all 
mushrooms, and mycologists are even yet at odds as 

to the proper botanical disposition of 
^^f^th^ many of the contrasting varieties which 

Campestris it assumes. A few of these are indicat- 
ed in Plate 6. Indeed, some of these, 
as in the Agaricus arvensis^ following, have until quite 
recently figured as distinct species. In its extreme 
form it might well so do, but when science is con- 
fronted with an intermediate specimen bearing equal 
affinities to the Campestris and Arvensis  and per- 
haps reinforced by other individuals which actually 
merge completely into the Campestris  the discrimi- 
nation of the Arvensis as a distinct species becomes 
impossible, and would hardly seem warrantable. 

Berkeley gives the following selection of the more 
distinct varieties, not including the Arvensis with its 
variations, and which he considers a distinct species: 

1. The so-called "garden mushroom," with its brownish, hairy, 
scaly cap. 

2. A, pratemis^ in which the pileus is more or less covered with 
reddish scales, and the flesh as well as gills a pinkish tinge. 

3. A. viilaticus, large size and very scaly. 

4. A, silvicolay pileus smooth and shining, stem elongated and 
conspicuously swollen at base \ often found in woods. 

5. A, vaporarius, brown pilose coat which covers the stem as 
well as the cap, and l^ves streaky fragments on the stalk as it 
elongates. 

6. He also figures another marked form, with the cap of a red- 
dish color, completely covered with a pilose coat ; the gills being 
perfectly white in young specimens, and the flesh turning bright 
red when bruised. 

Any one of the above, he admits, are as much entitled to classi- 
fication as " distinct species " as the Arvensis. 



92 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The application of the title "horse -mushroom" to 
this last-mentioned species was generally supposed to 

be referable to the same popular tra- 

Thc "horse" ditions of which we see the analogies 

mushroom in the names horse -weed, horse-nettle, 

horse -balm, horseradish among the 
herbs  the prefix " horse " referring to the element of 
coarseness or rank growth. But in the instance of 
the mushroom it bears a deeper significance, as this 
ample cosmopolitan variety of the Campestris, which 
follows the horse all over the world, from stable and 
through lane to pasture, and which can only be 
grown in the manure of this animal, is now generally 
believed to be a secondary, exaggerated form conse- 
quent upon the following conditions : 

The spores of the Campestris are shed in myriads 
in the pastures. The grazing horse no doubt swal- 
lows thousands of them, which, upon their return to 
the soil under especially favorable conditions for 
growth, vegetate into mycelium, and at length fructi- 
fy in the full -formed mushroom. The dense white 
spawn of this species may often be seen beneath the 
manure in pastures where no sign of the mushroom 
itself is yet apparent. 

During the writing of the present pages I have 
received from Arizona a letter accompanied with a 

sketch of a most astonishing mushroom, 
A huge which my correspondent finds plenti- 
variety fully prevalent in his vicinity, growing 
in arid sand, even in an exceptionally 
dry season. He claims that "it is deliciously ed- 
ible," and he has partaken of it several times. His 



AGARICS 93 

sketch and description call to mind no existing form 
of mushroom known to me, though from one peculi- 
arity in particular  namely, its frequently enormous 
size, "occasionally ten inches in diameter"  one 
would naturally expect to find it at least notorious, 
if not famous. 

It is plainly an Agaric related to the Campestris, 
and from the fact of its having " pink gills darker in 
older specimens " I suspect it to be simply another 
local masquerade of this same Campestris, which sus- 
picion, by the receipt of further data, I hope soon to 
verify. 

HORSE-MUSHROOM 
Agaricus arvensis 

This other and larger variety, so readily confound- 
ed with the Campestris, demands further and more 
detailed description. It may frequently be found 
growing in company with the former, and so closely 
do the two kinds merge in specimens of equal size 
that it is often a puzzle to separate the species. In- 
deed, as already mentioned by some mycologists, the 
larger form is considered merely as a variety of the 
Campestris. The accompanying plate (5) may well 
serve as a portrait of this species also. It frequents 
the same localities as the former, and is occasional- 
ly seen crowded in clusters of crescent 
Description shape, or in scattered rings, while its 
of Arvensis size is generally conspicuous, the solid 

cream -colored or white cap often ex- 
panding to the diameter of seven inches. Its sub- 
stance discolors to yellowish brown on being bruised. 



94 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The stem is less solid than in Campestris, often with 
a pithlike or even hollow heart The gills are of 
unequal length, as in the former species, though of 
much the same tints of pink and brown and black, 
though more dingy in the lighter shades. The veil 
is often more conspicuous, and occasionally appears 
to be double, the outer or lower more or less ragged 
or split into a fringe at the edge. The species can 
hardly be mistaken for any poisonous variety, and, 
once recognized, its generous size, frequent profusion, 
and savory qualities make it a tempting quest to the 
epicure, being considered by many as superior in fla- 
vor to its rival, the smaller Campestris. 

But this question of gastronomic prestige will per- 
haps never be finally settled. De gustibus non est 

disputandum. Species considered here 

In matters by many as the ne plus ultra of delica- 
of taste cies, like the Campestris, are discrimi- 
nated against in other countries, and in 
Rome, it is said, are even thrown into the Tiber by 
inspectors and guardians of the public health who 
find it exposed for sale in the markets. There are 
those connoisseurs in delicate feasting who consider 
no other species comparable to this. These fastidi- 
ous gourmands are in turn viewed with pitying con- 
sideration by other superior epicurean feeders with 
finer sensuous discrimination, who know perfectly 
well that our woods afford a number of common 
species which easily consign the Campestris to the 
fourth or fifth choice as a competitor at the feast. 

The arts of the chef have been exhausted in the 
savory preparation of this, the most famous of the 



AGARICS 95 

mushrooms. A few of his ingenious methods are 
given in a later chapter. Meanwhile most of us will 
be perfectly contented with our simple " mushrooms 
on toast." 

While the Campestris is generally considered as 
" the " mushroom, there is another species which al- 
most equally shares the honors in popular favor. 

I have alluded to the habit of the horse-mushroom 
as !' growing in crescents or rings." This singular 
tendency is, however, much more fully exemplified 
in another fungus, which has thus won the popular 
patronymic of the "Fairy -ring" Champignon, and 
which is considered on page loi. 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 
Agaricus gambosus 

Another very common example of mushroom in 
its season of early spring is the Agaricus gambosus^ 
or St. George's mushroom, as it is popularly styled 
in Great Britain, from its usual appearance about the 
time of St. George's Day, April 23d. In addition to 
its unusually early season, which is the same with 
us, and which at this date would be a valuable hint 
in its identification, it has also the singular habit of 
growing in rings or clustered in crescents, after the 
manner of the Fairy -ring Champignon of our lawns. 

Add to this, also, a very strong odor. 
Remarkably and we have at least three suggestive 
strong odor characteristics to aid us. This odor, 

according to Dr. Cooke, is so strong 
as to occasionally become oppressive and overpower- 
ing where the fungus is plentiful. Workmen em- 



96 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ployed to root them out are said to have been so 
overcome by the odor as to be compelled to desist. 
Other features of this fungus are noted in Plate 7. 
The cap varies in size in different individuals, but is 
occasionally very large  five inches or more in diam- 
eter, the average expanse, perhaps, being about three 
inches. The cap is smooth, thick, and fleshy, sug- 
gesting soft kid leather, at first rounded convex, ulti- 
mately expanding quite 
horizontally, and is com- 
monly fissured here and 
there with irregular cracks, 
both in its expanse and 
at its edges. Its color is 
white, or yellowish white. 
In surface appearance Dr. 
Berkeley compared it to a 
" cracknel biscuit." The 
gills are yellowish white, 
very moist and densely 
crowded, and of various lengths, as indicated in my 
sectional drawing on the plate, and are, moreover, 
annexed to the solid stout stem by a toothed border, 
also shown herewith. 

The season of this mushroom extends into June, 
and in its favorite haunt it may occasionally be gath- 

ered by the bushel. Opinions are at 
Epicurean variance as to the comparative esculent 
opinions qualities of this species. Certainly deli- 
cacy cannot be claimed for it; but 
those epicures who desire the characteristic fungus 
flavor at its maximum will find it in the Gambosus. 




TOOTHED GILLS 




azicud qambodud 



TLATE yil 

ST. GEORGE'S MUSHROOM 

Agaricus gainbosas 

Pileus: Three to six inches in diameter, occasionally much 
larger ; rounded convex, at length more flat and common- 
ly cracked here and there; surface smooth, thick, and 
fleshy, suggesting soft kid leather. Color, pale ochre 
or yellowish white. 

Gills: Densely crowded; yellowish white; very moist; va- 
rious lengths; each annexed to stem by a small sharp 
downward curve. 

Stem: Solid; stout; substance creamy white. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Highly flavored; by some considered **too gamy." 

Odor: Powerfully strong, perhaps rank. 

Habitat: Fields, lawns, and pastures, frequently growing in 
broken rings or crescents. 



HkL 



snsoawvo snoiavov 



AGARICS lOI 

By many fungus-f casters this species is prized as 
the ne plus ultra^ and most various are the methods 
of its culinary preparation, either in the form of mince 
and fricassee with various meats, suitably seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and butter, or simply broiled and 
served on buttered toast An appetizing recipe for 
this especial mushroom is given on page 313. 

TRUE FAIRY-RING CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius oreades 

I remember, as a boy, summer after summer ob- 
serving upon a certain spot upon our lawn this dense, 

and at length scattering, ring of tiny 
Faij7-ring yellowish mushrooms, and the aroma, 

mushrooms ^ , . 

true and false as they simmered on the kitchen stove, 

is an appetizing memory. This species 
is very common, and inasmuch as it is likely to be 
confounded with two noxious varieties, it is advisable 
to bring in prominent contrast the characters of the 
true and the false. 

The true Fairy- ring Champignon is pictured in 
Plate 8. It is common on lawns and close-cropped 
pastures, where it is usually seen growing in rings 
more or less broken, and often several feet in diam- 
eter, or in disconnected arcs, the vegetation extend- 
ing outward year by year. This mushroom is held 
in great esteem, and frequently grows in such pro- 
fusion that bushels may be gathered in a small area. 

The pileus is bufif or cream colored, from one to 
two inches in diameter, leathery and shrivelled when 
dry, but when moist, after rain or dew, becoming 
brownish, soft, and pliable, the conditions perhaps 



I02 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

alternating for several days ; the skin refuses to be 
peeled, and in the older, fully opened specimens the 

centre of the cap is raised in a distinct 
Tnie" tiny mound; gills, widely separated^ 
fairy-rins about ten or twelve to the inch at cir- 
cumference in average specimens, same 
color as cap, or paler, unequal in length, curving 
upward on reaching stem, thus "y>w " from apparent 
contact with it ; stem, equal diameter, tough, fibrous, 
and tenacious, paler than gills, smooth to the base 
{710 spines nor down) ; cup, none ; spores, white ; taste 
nutty ^ somewhat aromatic^ appetizing; habitat usually 
on lawns or pastures. 

The '*ring" was long involved in mystery, being at- 
tributed to moles, lightning, witchcraft, etc. ; and, 

clothed with popular superstition, has 

^"fth^"* found its way into many folk-legends, 

mystic  ring" and has figured in the lore of elfs and 

goblins, to whom, in the absence of 
scientific knowledge, the strange, fungus-haunted cir- 
cle was referred, the " ring " being applied not merely 
to the circle of mushrooms themselves, but especially 
to the clearly defined ring of clear, fresh grass sur- 
rounding the central, more faded area. But the fair- 
ies no longer dance their moonlight rigadoon upon 
the charmed circle of the champignon, nor do the 
nimble elves " rear their midnight mushrooms " upon 
the rings of lush grass as of old, for science has 
stepped in and cleared up the mystery. The Rev. 
M. J. Berkeley, in his Outlines to British Fungology^ 
thus completely rescues the " fairy-ring " from the do- 
main of poetry and reduces it to prosaic fact : 



'^ fflbazadmiud oteadeA 



TLATE yill 

FAIRY RING CHAMPIGNON 

Marasmius oreades 

Pileus : Convex at first, becoming flat, with a mound at cen- 
tre, at juncture of stem ; texture, tough and pliable when 
moist, brittle in drying, alternating between these two 
conditions with rain and sun ; color, reddish buff at first, 
becoming cream colored when old, when it is usually 
quite wrinkled. 

Gills : Broad, and quite separated ; about ten or twelve to the 
inch at rim in large specimens ; unequal in length ; deep 
cream color; clearing the stem as they curve upward 
towards cap. 

Stem: Solid; equal diameter; tough and fibrous; naked and 
smooth at base. 

Spores: White. 

Taste: Sweet, "nutty," and appetizing. 

Odor: Aromatic and pleasant. 

Habitat: Pastures and lawns, generally growing in rings or 
curved lines. 

Diameter of pileus, full expansion, one to two inches. 



1^ 



V: 



Marasmius Oreades 



AGARICS 107 

" These rings are sometimes of very ancient date, 
and attain such enormous dimensions as to be di&> 

tinctly visible on a hill-side for a great 

The "ring" distance. It is believed that they orig- 

expiained inate from a single fungus whose growth 

renders the soil immediately beneath 
unfit for its reproduction. The spav .1, however, 
spreads all around, and in the second year produces 
a crop, whose spawn spreads again, the exhausted 
soil behind forbidding its return in that direction. 
Thus the circle is continually increased, and extends 
indefinitely till some cause intervenes to destroy it 
If the spawn does not spread on all sides at first, an 
arc of a circle only is produced. The manure aris- 
ing from the dead fungi of former years makes the 
grass peculiarly vigorous around, so as to render the 
circle visible even when there is no external appear- 
ance of fungus, and the contrast is often stronger 
from that behind being killed by the old spawn. 
This mode of growth is far more common than is 
supposed, and may be observed constantly in our 
woods, where the spawn can spread only in the soil 
or among the leaves and decaying fragments which 
cover it." 

Many recipes are recommended for the preparation 
of this mushroom, some of which are given in a later 

chapter, including the method of des- 
Various iccation so commonly employed with 
recipes other species, and by which the cham- 
pignon may be kept for ready use 
throughout the winter months. 

In its fresh state, according to J. M. Berkeley, " When 



I08 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

of good size and quickly grown, it is perhaps the best 
of all fungi for the table, whether carefully fried or 
stewed with an admixture of finely mixed herbs and 
a minute portion of garlic. It is at the same time 
tender and easy of digestion, and when once its use is 
known and its character ascertained, no species may 
be eaten with less fear. It is so common in some dis- 
tricts that bushels may be gathered in a day." 

FALSE OR POISON CHAMPIGNON 
Marasmius urms 

There are two other species of mushroom which 
might possibly be mistaken for the above by the 
casual eye, but which are easily distinguishable on 
careful examination. The first of these is the false 
Champignon (Plate 9, fig. i). The most important 
distinguishing features are italicized. They will be 
seen to afford a striking contrast to the true edible 
species in these especial characters. 

The pileus is pale buff, convex, central mound ab- 
sent; the cap varies from one-half to one and a half 
inches in diameter, and is thus slightly smaller than 
the " true " fairy-ring ; gills, yellowish brown, narrow, 
and crowded^ twenty -five or more to the inch at cir- 
cumference in good specimen, curving upward at 
junction with stem, thus "free" from actual attach- 
ment; stem, solid, clothed with whitish down^ espe- 
cially noticeable at the base ; cup, none ; taste^ acrid. 
This last quality alone should distinguish the species, 
which, moreover, usually grows in woods, though oc- 
casionally found upon the lawn in association with 
the edible species. 



dm 



azadtntud uzend 



C/foazadmiud pezonatuA 



VL/tTE IX 

POISONOUS CHAMPIGNONS 
Marasmlus urens 

Pileus: Pale buff in color; tough and fleshy; flat convex, 

becoming depressed and at length wrinkled ; one to two 

inches in diameter. 
Gills: Unequal, cream colored, becoming brownish; much 

closer together than in the true Champignon, hardly 

reaching the stem proper. 
Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, its surface more or less covered 

with white, flocculent down, and densely clothed with 

white down at base. 
Taste: Acrid. 
Habitat: Lawns and pastures, often in association with the 

edible A/, oreades. 

Marasmlus peponatus 

Pileus : Reddish buff ; convex slightly flattened at top, be- 
coming convex by expansion ; very wrinkled when old ; 
diameter, at full expansion, between one and two inches. 

Gills : Thin and crowded ; creamy, becoming light reddish 
brown, continuing slightly down stem by a short, abrupt 
curve. 

Stem: Solid; fibrous; pale, densely clothed with stiff yel- 
low hairs at base. 

Taste: Acrid. 

Habitat: In woods, among dead leaves, etc. 



Poisonous Champignons. 

MARASMIUS URENS. M.PERONATU5. 



AGARICS I I 3 

POISONOUS FAIRY-RING MUSHROOM 
Marasmius peronatus 

The other false species (Plate 9, fig. 2) still more 
closely simulates the "fairy-ring," but may be identi- 
fied by the growth of spines at the base of the stalk. 
The gills are also annexed to the stalk by a small, 
sharp, recurved tooth. Like the previous spurious 
species, it is found in woods ^ and is rarely to be seen 
in association with the true Champignon or in its 
peculiar haunt. 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 
Agaricus {Lepiota) procerus 

One of the most readily recognized of our wild 
mushrooms is the pasture or parasol Agaric {Aga- 
ricus procerus), a cluster of which in 
various stages of development is shown 
in Plate 10. It is frequently abundant 
in pasture - lands, and i? occasionally 
found in woods. Its conspicuous cap sometimes 
measures six inches or more in diameter, the centre 
being abruptly raised in a mound. The pileus is at 
first egg-shaped. The color of the full specimen is 
pale -brown or buff, more or less spotted with darker 
brown shaggy patches, generally arranged in some- 
what concentric order. The skin of the cap is thick 
and somewhat tough, especially in drying. The gills 
are almost pure white in early specimens, slightly 
creamy later, and unequal in length. Stem, often 
six or eight inches high, proportionately slender, and 
of equal diameter, bulbous at base, but without a 



114 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



cup, hollow, fibrous, finely speckled or streaked with 
brown, and deeply inserted in the cap, at which 
juncture, by a narrow flat space, as shown in the 
section drawing below, it is distinctly free from con- 
tact with the gills. The remnants of the veil are in 
the form of a more or less detachable ring encircling 




the stem. The spores are white and odorous. The 
flavor, when raw, is distinctly nutty, aromatic, sweet, 
and palatable ; when dry, slightly pungent. 

This species is cosmopolitan, and is a great favor- 
ite on the Continent  in France being known as the 

Coulemelle^ in Italy as Bubbola mag- 
Simple giore^ and in Spain as Cogomelos. It 
recipe fs by many considered as the choicest 
of all mushrooms, and is indeed a deli- 
cious morsel when quickly broiled over coals, seasoned 
to taste with salt and pepper and butter melted in 
the gills, and served hot on buttered toast. Other 
recipes are noted in a later chapter. The scurfy 
spots and stems should be removed before cooking. 




aztcud pzocezud 



TLATE X 

THE PASTURE MUSHROOM 

Agarieus procerus 

Pileus : At first egg-shaped, finally expanded like a parasol 
four to seven inches in diameter, the apex raised in a 
prominent mound or * * umbo. " Color pale buflFor creamy, 
occasionally almost pure white, more or less regularly 
spotted with the brown shaggy patches of the separating 
epidermis, which remains of the pale brown color on the 
**umbo." Skin thick and somewhat tough; substance 
hygrometric, drying and swelling naturally in its haunts. 

Gills: Unequal in length; crowded; at first almost white, 
finally becoming creamy or pale buflf. 

Stem: Tall, slender, equal, hollow, and fibrous; bulbous at 
base, but with no sign of a "cup;*' separated from the 
gills above by a distinct space ; surface streaked and 
speckled with brown, encircled by a loose ring. 

Spores: White, and, like the whole plant, fragrant aromatic 
 more so, perhaps, than any other fungus. 

Taste: Distinctly sweet and "nutty," slightly pungent when 
dry. 

Habitat: Pastures and fields, occasionally woods. 

Season: Summer. 



u^ 



AoARicus Procerus 



AGARICS 119 

This species is especially free from the swarming 
grubs too commonly found in mushrooms. It is high- 
ly hygrometric, dries naturally eyen 
Hygrometric while standing in the pasture, in which 
properties condition it is decidedly aromatic in 

fragrance and nutty sweet to the taste, 
as described. Indeed, it is sometimes called "the 
nut mushroom." Absorbing moisture from the dews 
and rains, it again becomes pulpy and enlarged, thus 
alternating for days between its juicy and dry con- 
dition, in which latter state it may be gathered and 
kept for winter use. It is a palatable morsel at all 
times, but especially in the prime of its first^ expan- 
sion, each successive alternation, with its gradual loss 
of spores, affecting its full flavon 

THE RUSSULA GROUP 

Among the wild species of mushrooms which the 
novice might possibly mistake for the common "mush- 
room " of the markets  which is popularly supposed 
to be the only edible variety, as distinguished from 
"toadstools"  is the Russula grpup. They are ex- 
tremely frequent in our woods from spring to late 
autumn, and have many features in common. Their 
caps vary in color from a gray -green, suggesting 

cheese-mould, to olive-red, scarlet-red, 

Generic and purplish. The gills are generally 

characters of the same length, or practically so, 

occasionally double - branched, begin- 
ning at the stem and usually extending to the rim of 
the cap, at which portion they are covered by the 



I20 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

mere skin of the pileus, a slightly fluted appearance 
being observable from above, which indicates the lo- 
cation of the radiating laminae below (Plate 1 2, fig. 6). 
The stem may be white or cream-colored, or perhaps 
stained or mottled with the color of the cap. 

There are at least four of these edible Russulae 

that we are certain of meeting in our walks in the 

woods : The green Russula (7?. virescens), with its mot- 

' tied cap of mouldy or sage green ; the various-gilled 

Russula {R. keterophylla)y varying in the 

Principal lengths of its gill plates; the purple 

species Russula (/?. lepida), whose cap varies 

from bright red to dull purple ; and the 

red Russula {R. alutacea), which presents a variety of 

shades of red, from bright to dull. Having once 

identified the Russula as a group, or the common 

characteristics of the genus, we may take our pick 

from all of these delicious species for the table; but 

we must avoid one other member of the genus, also 

quite common, and which frequently masquerades in 

the guise of some of the bright red varieties above 

mentioned. This is the R. emeticay whose obnoxious 

qualities are indicated by its classical surname, and 

which will be separately considered. 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 
Agaricus {Russula) virescens 

Our first species, the green Russula, is to be found 
throughout the summer in hard-wood groves, and is 
apt to frequent the same immediate locality from year 
to year. I know one such veritable mushroom bed 
in the woods near by, where I am almost certain of 



my mess of Russulie almost any day in their season. 
This species h shown in its various stages of develop- 
ment and also in section in Plate 1 1, Its substance is 
jlrm and solid creamy white. The pileus, at first al- 
most hemispherical, as it pushes its 
Spedflc way through the earth, at length be- 
<**"<** comes convex, with a slight hollow at 
the centre, and later ascends in a gentle 
slope from centre to rim. Its color is sage green, or 
mouldy green, usually quite unbroken in tint at cen- 
tre, but more or less disconnected into spots as it ap- 




RUSSULA VIRESCENS 



proaches the circumference by the gradual expansion 
of the cap, the creamy undertint appearing like net- 
work between the separated patches of color. The 
substance of the cap becomes gradually thinned tow- 
ards the circumference, where the mere cuticle con- 
nects the gills, the position of these gills being ob- 
servable from above in a faint fluting of the edge, a 
peculiarity of all the Russulse. The cuticle peels 



122 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

readily some distance from the edge, leaving the 
projecting tips of the gills exposed in a row of comb- 
like teeth, but usually adheres towards the centre of 
cap. The gills, with rare exceptions, are all of the 
same lengthy white or creamy in color, firm and thick, 
but very brittle^ easily broken into fragments by a rude 
touch, a characteristic of all the group; spores, white. 
The stem is short, stout, and solid, and usually tapers 
towards the base. There is no vestige of a cup or 
veil at any stage of growth. 

A fine specimen of the green Russula should 
measure five inches in diameter when fully open, but 
three inches is probably the average size. 

When once acquainted with the above as a type 
of the Russula group, noting the firm substance, 

straight, equal gills, and their brittle 

The noxious texture ; the sweet, nutty flavor com- 
Russute mon to all the edible species, these be- 
come readily identified, the noxious 
Russulae, as in the brilliant pink or scarlet R. emetica 
(Plate 13), being acrid zxiA peppery to the taste. 

In an auspicious season and in a congenial habitat 
 usually an open wood with scant undergrowth and 
preferably raked clean of dead leaves  the green Rus- 
sula is often abundant. Familiarity even with this 

one species will often afford a sufficien- 

^"^"fte"**"** ^y ^^ fungus food during its season. A 
sufficient lady amateur mycophagist of the writ- 
er s acquaintance, whose home is locat- 
ed at the border of such a wood as is above described, 
and who is especially fond of the green Russula, is 
never at a loss for this especially prized tidbit as a 



cJouddulcL:> vizedcetid 



TLATE XI 

THE GREEN RUSSULA 

Russula ylresoens 

Pileus : Very firm ; solid, dull, dry-surfaced, as with a fine 
** flock"; mouldy green or creamy, with sage-greenish 
broken spots more united at centre ; occasionally entirely 
green, with warty patches of darker hue. At first glob- 
ular, then convex with flat top, at length expanded and 
hollowed towards centre. 

Gills: Pale, creamy white; commonly all of equal length, but 
frequently unequal and forked; very brittle, breaking in 
pieces at a rude touch. 

Stem : Solid ; creamy white ; no veil. 

Taste : Very mild, sweet, and nut-like. 

Habitat : In woods  July-September. 

Diameter of pileus, ideal specimen, four inches. 



 



/. 






RUSSULA ViRESCENS. 



AGARICS 127 

reward for her daily stroll among the trees. A vis- 
itor may often see upon her buffet a small glass dish 
filled with the mushrooms, nicely scraped and cut in 
pieces  an ever-present relish between meals. For 
even in their natural state, as she discriminatingly 
says, they are "as sweet as chestnuts." This is espe- 
cially the case with the "buttons" or younger speci- 
mens. 

PURPLE RUSSULA 
Russula l^ida 

This, perhaps the most common species, is figured 
in Plate 12, fig. 3. It corresponds with the fore- 
going in size as well as in general shape, firm text- 



SUSSULA LEPI DA  CONTORTED AND CRACKED PILEU3 

ure, and friable nature of the gills. The pileus of 
this species frequently assumes eccentric shapes, or is 
often cracked, as seen in the accompanying cut. Its 



128 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

name of " purple " is probably local in its application, 
as it is known also as the red Russula, neither of 

which titles is at all distinctive. In- 
Color of cap deed, the color of the cap is often a mis- 
misleadins: leading character for identification, as a 

given species may vary greatly in this 
particular. This feature is thus generally omitted in 
purely scientific descriptions, more dependence being 
placed upon the tint of the flesh and that of the spore 
surface, the lamina or gills, which are more perma- 
nent and reliable as a character. Thus, in the present 
species, R. lepida, the tint of the pileus or cap is often 
of a deep dull purplish red or ruddy wine color. An- 
other authority describes it as violet -red and cherry- 
red or slightly tawny, paler at circumference. Berke- 
ley, in his British Fungi^ omits any reference to the 
color of the cap, as evidently of little value in identifi- 
cation. But from numerous examples gathered by 
the present writer, the color may, I think, be safely 

averaged under the general hue of dark, 

specific subdued red inclining to maroon. The 

characters surface is dull, as with a fine dust or 

plum-like bloom, and thus without pol- 
ish. Occasional specimens appear almost velvety in 
the sheen of surface. But the tints of the flesh and 
the gills are always uniform, the leaflets or gills being 
pure white or very slightly creamy, continuous from 
stem to rim or occasionally forked, not crowded, 
curved in outline in open specimen, with broadest 
width near the circumference of cap. The flesh is 
white or slightly creamy, firm and compact as in the 
former species, with the same variations of outline 



Sdlbley Soudduice 



TLATE XII 

EDIBLE RUSSUL/E 

1. Bussola heterophylla Variable Bussula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; greenish or pinkish -gray; at first con- 
vex, with flat top, ultimately rising from centre to rim. 

Gills: Milk-white; extremely brittle, like all the Russulae, 
and easily crumbled (see Fig. 7) ; long, short, and forked 
intermixed. Fig. 5. 

Stem: Milk-white; solid. 

Taste : Mild and sweet. 

2. Russula alutacea Yellow- gllled Russula 

Pileus: Firm, solid; shape as in above; color very variable, 
from bright to deep red; cuticle thin at rim, where the 
lines of junction of gills are readily discernible from above 
by the depressed channels. Fig. 6. 

Gills : Equal, brittle, broad ; yellow - buflF color in all stages. 

Fig. 4- 
Stem: Solid; milk-white, commonly stained or streaked with 

red towards the base. 

Taste : Sweet and nut-like.  

3. Russula leplda Purple Russula 

Pileus: In shape like above, varying in color from bright 
red to dull, subdued purplish, with a distinct bloom. 

Gills: White, broad, principally even, occasionally forked as 
in Fig. I ; like the above, extremely brittle. Fig. 7. 

Stem: Solid; white, usually stained and streaked with pink. 
Fig. 8. 

Taste : Sweet, and similar to above. 

Average diameter of extended pileus of each of these spe- 
cies about three and one-half inches; veil absent in each. 
Habitat : All grow in woods  July-September. 



5> 



Edible Russulae, 

RUSSULA HETEROPHYLLA. R.ALUTACEA, 



AGARICS 133 

from early stage to maturity. The stem is white, 
solid, and generally more or less tinted or streaked 
vertically with rose or pale crimson (Fig. 8). The 
taste of the flesh is sweet and appetizing. 

YELLOW-GILLED RUSSULA 
Russula alutacea 

Our third example of the Russula is one which is 
also quite common in our woods, and which might in 
the extreme variation of its color be confounded with 
the last by a careless observer, as indeed both might 
be still further confounded with the poisonous mem- 
ber bearing the red tint, and which will be hereafter 
considered. The Russula alutacea (PI. 12, figs. 2, 4, 6) 

is a delicious species. In general size 
Botanical and contour it resembles the foregoing. 
characters The color of the cap varies from bright- 
red to blood -red or even approaching 
the purplish red of the preceding species, lightening 
towards edge. But we have a clear distinction in the 
color of the gills^ which are distinctly yellowish^ pale 
ochre, or nankeen, in all stages of the mushroom, or 
even tawny in old specimens. They are, moreover, 
usually all of even length, being straight and continu- 
ous from stem to circumference of pileus, none of 
them forked, their juncture with the edge of the cap 
being clearly manifest from above by the thinness of 
the cuticle. The flesh is white, stem firm and solid, 
white and smooth, often tinted with pink or red. The 
flesh of the cap often appears pinkish upon peeling 
the cuticle from the edge. The taste resembles that 
of the previous species  sweet and nutty. 



134 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

VARIOUS- GILLED RUSSULA 
Russula heterophylla 

Growing in company with both of the above is 
frequently to be seen another species, which is some- 
what protean in its accomplishments of color, but 
which in the character of its gills, as implied in its 

scientific name, gives us a ready means 
Botanical of identification  heterophylla  various- 
characters leaved (PL 12, figs, i and 5). In the pre- 
vious examples of Russulae the gills have 
been commonly straight, continuous from stem to 
edge of cap, or more rarely forked and continuous in 
the bifurcation. In the present species we have both 
of these conditions, combined also with what are 
called dimidiate gills, or shorter leaflets, which reach, 
perhaps, only half-way from rim to stem, all crowded 
together and alternating. The color of the cap is 
very variable  occasionally pinkish-ash color or dull 
pinkish-gray inclining to green or olive or even red. 
Its surface is smoother than in the foregoing species, 
being almost polished, and the pellicle of the cap is 
usually noticeably thinner. Having found such a 
specimen, possessing also all the other attributes of 
shape, firmness of flesh, and dry brittleness of gills, 
if tasted and found sweet in ^avor it may be eaten 
without the slightest fear, and like its congeners will 
be found a delicious morsel, whether nibbled raw, as 
the squirrels are so fond of doing, or served hot on 
toast as an entree, or otherwise prepared according 
to taste. 

Various methods prevail in the culinary prepara- 



AGARICS 135 

tion of the Russula mushroom, many of which are 
suggested among the receipts in another chapter, but 

broiling is perhaps the most simple and 
^"wed* generally satisfactory. Having thor- 
Russuia oughly cleaned the top, or, if desired, 

peeled the cuticle, place the mushrooms 
on a gridiron over a hot fire, gills downward, for a 
few moments, sufficient to allow them to be heated 
through without scorching. Then reverse them and 
repeat the process, melting a small piece of butter in 
the gills and salting and peppering to taste; serve 
hot on toast or in the platter with roast beef or fowl. 
They are also delicious fried in the ordinary way, 
either with or without batter. 

The Russula is particularly in favor among the 
fungus-eating insects, whose rapid development and 



AN INFESTED SPECIMEN 



voracity are consistently related to the ephemeral 
nature of their food. A Russula specimen showing 



136 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

barely a trace of insect life when gathered will some- 
times prove literally honey-combed and totally unfit 
for food in the space of twenty-four hours. It is 
therefore well to cut each specimen in sections be- 
fore venturing upon its preparation for the table, and 
to profit thereby according to our individual fastidi- 
ousness, as suggested on page 37. 

While the above esculent species of Russulae are 
being familiarized by the tyro, he must now be put 
on guard against a certain dangerous species of the 
group, which is sure to claim his attention, being 
especially fond of the good company of its cousins, 
and likely to do some mischief through its frequent 
disguise. 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 

Russula emetica 

The variability in the coloring of the three edible 
species already described brings them occasionally 

into such close similarity with the 

The poisonous gamut of color of the one common poi- 

Russula sonous Species of the group that this 

enemy must also be familiarized ere we 
venture too confidently upon our Russula diet. The 
Russula emetica (Plate 13), as its name implies, is at 
war with luxurious gastronomy, but its distinction 
from the harmless varieties is, after all, quite simple. 
Its frequent general similarity to R. lepida and R. 
alutacea is such that the amateur should hardly rely 
upon the botanical characters alone. There is but 
one safe, as it is a simple, rule for him : He should 
taste every specimen of his Russula of whatever kind 



cJouddaiao emeticcLD 



TLATE XHl 

POISONOUS OR EMETIC MUSHROOM 

Russula emetica 

Pileus: Expansion two to four inches; color varying from 
pale bright pink to deep scarlet ; very smooth. 

Gills: Broad (in section), mostly equal in length, and contin- 
uous from edge of cap to stem ; not crowded ; white. 

Stem : White or pinkish. 

Spores : White, like all Russulae. 

Taste : Hot and peppery. 

Habitat : Woods, with other Russulae. 

Season : July-September. 

Note.  While, for conservative reasons, the poisonous reputation of this 
species is here perpetuated, it is quite probable that such condemnation is un- 
warranted, except as to the raw mushroom. The peppery tang and demoral- 
izing powers are now claimed to be dissipated in cooking, and the Emetica will 
doubtless soon be more generally included with its congeners among the es- 
culents, thus bringing the entire genus Russula into the friendly group. 

Captain Charles Mcllvaine is largely responsible for this conversion in favor 
of Emetica, His individual experiments warrant him in pronouncing this species 
** as good as the rest** when cooked. Others of the writer's acquaintance, fol- 
lowing his example, echo his opinion. 



PLATE Xm 



RUSSULA Emetica. 

(POISONOUS) 



AGARICS 141 

before venturing upon its use as food. All of the 
sweet and palatable Russulae are esculent When 

he chances upon the R, emetica he will 
A warning be aware of its important demoraliz- 
ing ing resources in the peppery-hot tingle 
of his tongue, which, if not instantly 
perceived, will within the space of a minute assert 
itself distinctly. All such acrid specimens should 
be excluded, as a single one would be sufficient to 
bring an ignominious denouement to an otherwise 
delectable feast. In the typical R. emetica the pileus 
is a bright, brilliant red  which, as we have said, 
is very variable, as indicated in our plate  often 
polished and shining ; the gills broad, equals straight^ 
continuous^ not crowded^ and white^ as is the flesh be- 
neath the peeled cuticle. The stem is white or pink. 
The cap will average, perhaps, three inches in diam- 
eter, though occasionally reaching the dimensions in- 
dicated by the marks in plate, or even larger. 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 
Agaricus ostreaius 

What a mass of nutritious food do we occasionally 
pass in innocence or spurn with our foot upon the old 
stump or fallen log in the woods !  a neglected feast, 
indeed, if the specialists on edible fungi are to be be- 
lieved ; a feast, in truth, for a big family, if we chance 
upon even an average cluster of the " vegetable oys- 
ter," which is pictured in Plate 14. 

I have commonly observed this species, the Agari- 
cus ostreatus, in the autumn, and this is the season 
given for its appearance in Europe by the authorities ; 



142 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

but according to certain American specialists, notably 
Charles McIIvaine, it is common in our woods in 

spring, even as early as March, and 

A "vegetable through the summer. It is usually 

oyster" found in large clusters, similar to our 

illustration, growing upon decaying 
stumps and the trunks of various trees. The "oys- 
ter " is a gilled mushroom which grows sidewise from 
its position, the stem being usually lateral and very 
short, though occasionally quite prolonged, the two 
varieties being indicated in the accompanying cut. 



AGARICUS OSTREATUS VARiATiaHS IH Fokh 

The individual mushroom may be five or six inch- 
es in breadth, a cluster affording several pounds in 
weight. The color of the upper surface is light 
brown or buff, varying to yellowish-ashen, according 
to age, and the gills are dirty white of various 
lengths ; spores white. 

This species and the one following belong to the 
subdivision of the typical genus Agaricus, called 
Leucospori  white spored. The division has many 




aticud odtzeatud 



TLATE Xiy 

THE OYSTER MUSHROOM 
Agarieus ostreatus 

Pileus : Four to six inches in diameter; smooth. Color, dull, 

light yellowish, sometimes pale ochre or grayish. 
Gills : Dingy white ; of various lengths, extending down the 

stem. 
Stem : Short or obsolete ; on the side of pileus. 
Spores: White. 
Taste : Agreeable ; suggesting the flavor of the cooked oyster ; 

texture tough in older specimens. 
Odor: Pleasant. 
Habitat: On old tree trunks and fallen logs, occasionally in 

dense masses. 



AOARICUS OSTREATUS. 



AGARICS 147 

sub-genera. The particular sub-genus in which 
these are included is the Pleurotus, or side-foot 
mushrooms, as they are sometimes called. 

Another earlier species with which A. osireatus 
might be confounded {A. euosmus) has spores of a 
rosy pinkish or lilac hue, a sufficient identification, 
and is accounted injurious. 



THIRTY POUNDS OF VEGETABLE MEAT 

The clustering growth of the " Oyster Mushroom " 
frequently attains huge proportions, as will be seen 
from the above reproduction of a photograph sent to 
me by a correspondent. The dimensions of the mass 



148 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

are easily judged by the height of the gun leaning 
against the tree, and introduced for comparison. 

This " Oyster Mushroom " should be gathered in 
its young state, and may be served in various ways. 

Broiling over the coals, gills upward, 
Broiled seasoning with butter, pepper, and salt 
recipe during the cooking, is a favorite meth- 
od with most of the Agarics, but a well- 
known fungus epicure claims that this mushroom 
" may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, and 
will be found fine eating." 

The average specimen will probably prove more 
ashen in hue than those represented in my plate. 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 
Agaricus ulmarius 

This edible species of mushroom, allied to the 
foregoing, and which grows in similar clusters on the 

elm-tree, is the Agaricus ulmarius (Plate 

Appetizing 1 5). While much difference of opinion 

qualities prevails regarding the appetizing qual- 

ities of this mushroom or its right to 
a place among the esculents, this varying individual 
judgment has doubtless often had direct reference 
to the character of the particular specimen chosen 
for trial. Dr. M. C. Cooke is not disposed to place a 
high appreciation upon its qualities. " It has been 
customary," he says, " to regard this and some of its 
allies [presumably in allusion to the preceding] as 
alimentary, but there is no doubt that they could all 
be very well spared from the list." Opposed to this 
uncomplimentary aspersion is the testimony of other 



O^^aticud uimaziud 



TLATE Xy 

THE ELM MUSHROOM 

Agarieus ulmarius 

Pileus: From three to five inches in diameter. Color, pale 
yellow or buff; smooth in young specimen, fissured, 
spotted, and leathery at maturity. Flesh in section white. 

Gills : Dingy white, becoming tawny at maturity, extending 
down the stem. 

Stem : Various in length, occasionally very short and attached 
to side of pileus; generally longer as in Plate, and '*off 
centre"; white; substance solid. 

Spores: White. 

Taste : Suggesting fish when cooked. 

Odor: Pleasant. 

Habitat: Trunk of elm or from surfaces of broken or sawn 
branches. Often growing in dense masses covering sev- 
eral square feet. 



PLATE XV 



"^ 






Agaricus Ulmarius. 



AGARICS 153 

authorities who claim that "it is most delectable" 
and "a delicious morsel" Certain it is that in its 
young and tender condition only is it fit for food, as 
it becomes progressively tough in consistency tow- 
ards maturity. 

As its specific name implies  Ulmus  this mush- 
room is devoted to the elm, upon whose trunk and 

branches it may be often seen, either 
Massive singly, which is rare, or in great dense 
growth masses, sometimes covering a space of 

several square feet, often, unfortunately, 
at an inaccessible height from the ground. I have 
in my possession a photograph which has been sent 
to me by an interested correspondent representing 
a dead tree trunk, apparently a foot in diameter, 
densely covered to a height of seven feet from the 
ground with a mass of the A, ulmarius  and pre- 
sumably representing thirty or forty pounds in weight. 
This species is most frequently seen on apparently 
healthy branches, or growing from the wood of a 
severed limb. Its season is late summer and au- 
tumn. 

A small cluster of these mushrooms is seen in 
Plate 15. They afford a good refutation of the old- 
time discriminating " ban," which excluded all mush- 
rooms which grow " sidewise," or " upon wood." The 

individual mushroom of this species is 

Botanical a horizontal grower, sometimes with a 

characters barely noticeable or obsolete stem; in 

other specimens this portion being 
quite distinct and an inch or more in length, and 
firm and solid in texture. The upper surface is pale 



154 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

yellow or buff, smooth in the younger specimens, be- 
coming disfigured by spots and fissures with age. 
The flesh is white, as also are the gills, though more 
dingy, becoming tawny- tinted with maturity, when 
the entire mushroom becomes quite leathery in sub- 
stance, and might well awaken doubts as to its di- 
gestibility. The spores are white. 

This fungus is known in some sections as the 
" Fish Mushroom," referring to its peculiar flavor, the 
appropriateness of which appellation is suggested in 
the incident related by Mr. Palmer, and quoted in 
my last chapter. 

SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 
Coprinus comatus 

Upon a certain spot on the lawn of one of my 
neighbors, year after year, without fail, there springs 

up a most singular crop. For the first 
A plebeian two seasons of its appearance it was 
toadstool looked upon with curious awe by the 

proprietors of the premises, and usually 
ignominiously spurned with the foot by the undis- 
criminating and destructive small boy. One day I 
observed about five pounds of this fungus delicacy 
thus scattered piecemeal about the grass, and my 
protest has since spared the annual crop for my sole 
benefit. It usually makes its appearance in late 
September, and continues in intermittent crops until 
November. A casual observer happening upon a 
cluster of the young mushrooms might imagine that 
he beheld a convention of goose eggs standing on 
end in the grass, their summits spotted with brown. 



(oopzinud comatud 



K 



TL/iTE Xyi 

THE SHAGGY-MANE MUSHROOM 

Coprlnus comatus 

Pileus: Egg-shaped in young specimens; at length more 
cylindrical, and finally expanded, melting away in inky 
fluid. Color, creamy white, becoming black at edge with 
advancing age, as is also the case with the shaggy points 
upon its surface, which generally cover the pileus. 

Gills : Crowded ; equal in length ; creamy white in young 
specimens, becoming pink, brown, and finally black, and 
always moist. 

Stem : Cylindrical ; creamy white ; hollow, or with a loose 

, cottony pith. 

Spores : Black, falling away in drops. 

Taste : Sweet, which applies only to the pink or white con- 
dition, at which time alone the species is considered es- 
culent. 

Habitat: Lawns, pastures, gardens, and rich grounds in the 
neighborhood of barns., etc. ; usually grows in dense 
clusters. 

Diameter of cylindrical pileus in average specimens, two 
inches. 

One of the most easily identified of all mushrooms. 



PLATE XVI 



COPRINUS COMATUS. 



AGARICS 1 59 

If one of them is examined, it is seen to be a 
curious short-stemmed mushroom which never fully 
expands (Plate i6), perhaps five inches high, and 
whose surface is curiously decorated with shaggy 



A D1MNR FOB A FAMILY 



patches. In its early stages it is white and singular- 
ly egglike, but later becomes brownish, its curved 
shaggy points finally changing to almost black. The 
concealed gills are crowded and of equal length, at 



l60 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

first creamy white, but gradually changing through 
a whole gamut of pinks, sepias, and browns until they 
become black, at which time the whole substance of 

the cap melts on its elongated stalk  
Inky deliquesces into an unsightly inky paste^ 

deliquescence which besmears the grass and ultimate- 
ly leaves only the bare white stem 
standing in its midst, a peculiar method of dissem- 
ination which distinguishes the group Coprinus, of 
which it is the most conspicuous example. This is 
the " shaggy-mane " mushroom, Coprinus comatus, the 
specific name signifying a wig  "from the fancied 
resemblance to a wig on a barber's block.'* Even 
a brief description is unnecessary with its portrait 
before us. It is a savory morsel, and it cannot be 
confounded with any other fungus. It frequently 
grows in such dense, crowded masses that a single 
group will afford a dinner for a family. 

It should be gathered while the gills are in the 
early white or pink stage, and may be prepared for 
the table in various ways, either broiled or fried, as 
described for previous species, or stewed with milk, 
or otherwise served according to the culinary hints in 
our later chapter, in which a special recipe for this 
species is found. 

In a recent stroll down the main street of Litch- 
field, Connecticut, I observed, over the fence in a 
front door-yard of a summer resident, just such a 
dense cluster of the shaggy Coprinus, the proprietor 
of the premises, an appreciative habitue of Delmoni- 
co's at other seasons of the year, complacently read- 
ing his morning paper in his piazza, little dreaming 



(oopzinud atzamentaziud 



* 



TLATE Xyil 

THE INKY TOADSTOOL 
Coprinus atramentarius 

Pileus : Fleshy, moist; at first egg-shaped ; of a Quaker-drab, 
dirty white, or even pale brownish color; at length be- 
coming expanded, umbrella -like, when it melts away in 
inky drops. 

Gills: Broad and crowded, not adhering to stem at top; 
creamy white in young species, becoming pinlcish gray, 
and at length black. 

Stem: Firm; white; hollow. 

Spores: Black; shed in liquid drops. 

Taste : Sweet, as is also the odor, which applies to its early 
stage only. 

Habitat : About old decaying stumps and rotten wood, gar- 
dens, rich lawns, and barn -yards; usually growing in 
clusters, often very dense. 

Diameter of pileus, young state, two inches. 



PLATE XVM 



COPRINUS ATRAMENTARIUS. 



AGARICS 165 

of the twenty pounds of dainty diet, fit for a king, so 
easily available. 

INKY MUSHROOM 
Coprinus atrammtarius 

In frequent company with the foregoing will be 
found another allied species, Coprinus atramentarius 
(Plate 17), with the same inky propensities, which is 
scarcely less delicious as an article of food. In this 
species the shaggy feature is absent, there being 
merely a few obscure slightly raised stains at the 

summit, of a brownish color. The stem 

Botanical is white and hollow. The surface of 

characters the pileus is smooth and of a Quaker- 
drab color, occasionally dirty-white, or 
with a slight shade of ochre, moist to the touch, dark- 
ened by rubbing. In the eatable stage the caps are 
drooping, as shown in the cluster on the plate, while 
the mature specimen expands considerably before its 
inky deliquescence. Its texture when young is firm, 
and the thick gray cuticle peels readily, leaving an 
appetizing nutty-flavored morsel, delicious even when 
raw. The inky Agaric is frequent about barn-yards, 
gardens, and old stumps in woods, and usually grows 
in such crowded masses that the central individuals 
are compressed into hexagonal shape. Like the 
previous variety, it should be collected for food while 
its gills are in the white or pink stage. 

Cordier claims that all the species of Coprinus are 
eatable at this stage. The profusion in which they 
occasionally abound renders it often a simple matter 
to obtain a bushel of them in a few minutes. 



1 66 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Like the foregoing, a large cluster of these mush- 
rooms leaves a most unsightly spot on the lawn. A 

diluted solution of this melting sub- 

Coprinus Stance, as Cooke assures us, has been 

^^^ used " to replenish the ink-bottle. The 

resemblance is so complete that it may 

readily be employed as a substitute, all that is required 

being to boil and strain it, and add a small quantity 

of corrosive sublimate to prevent its turning mouldy." 

It may also be employed as pigment. It is, indeed, 

quite possible to paint the portrait of Coprinus with 

its own dark sepia, as the author has personally 

demonstrated. (See head -piece to " Illustrations.") 

MILKY MUSHROOM 
Lactarius deliciosus 

Prominent among the fungi which give unmistak- 
able characters for their identification is the genus 
Lactarius, or milky mushrooms, another group of the 
agarics or gilled fungi, from which we will select for 

our first example the Lactarius delicu 

Orange -milk osus, OX orange -milk Agaric (Plate i8). 

Agaric The figure will itself almost serve to 

identify it in its advanced open stage. 
Having found a specimen resembling our illustration, 
and anywhere from three to five inches in expanse, 
its general upper surface dull reddish- orange in 
color, more or less plainly banded with darker red, 
it is safe to predict that when its surface or gills are 
broken an exudation of milky juice will follow. If 
this exudation is orange or deep yellow in hue, grad- 
ually turning greenish on exposure, the identification 



Joactaziud deilciodaA 



TLATE Xyill 

THE ORANGE-MILK MUSHROOM 

Laetarius delieiosus 

Pileus : Diameter three to five inches. Color varying from 
yellow to dull orange, or even brownish yellow with 
mottled zones of deeper color, especially in younger 
plants ; outline at first convex, ultimately somewhat fun- 
nel-shaped ; surface usually smooth and moist. 

Flesh : Brittle ; creamy, more or less stained with orange. 

Gills: Orange; generally clearer in hue than the pileus; when 
bruised, exuding a copious milky juice of orange color, 
becoming greenish in drying. 

Slem: Paler than pileus; hollow; occasionally spotted with 
orange or greenish stains from bruises. 

Spores: White. 

Taste : Slightly peppery. 

Habitat: Woods, pine-groves, and swamps. 

Season : July-September. 



Lactarius Deliciosus. 



AGARICS 171 

is complete, and we have the orange-milk Z. delicto- 
sus, of which an authority says, " It really deserves its 
name, being the most delicious mushroom known." 
W. G. Smith goes still further in its praise, assuring 
us that " when cooked with taste and care it is one 
of the greatest delicacies of the vegetable kingdom." 
The taste of this species when raw is slightly acrid, 
but this quality disappears in the cooking. 

One other species of Lactarius, L. volemum, may 
properly find a place in this work as being easily rec- 
ognized. In general shape it resembles 
..?*"^ stf -^- deliciosus. The top is of a rich sien- 

white-milk , , , ,11 11 

species na golden hue; the gills are crowded. 

The milk is white as it first falls from 

the fracture, becoming dull dark -reddish^ and having 

a mild, pleasant taste; gills white, at length yellowish 

or buff- colored. This species is esculent. 

Other species are accounted edible, even one  the 
peppery Lactarius, L. piperatus  a pure-white variety, 

whose copious exudations of white milk 

hu^^'^^ik ^^ almost blister the lips, an acrid 

species property which is claimed by Curtis, 

Smith, and others to be dispelled in 

cooking, by which treatment it becomes delicious and 

wholesome. 

This species may reach a diameter of seven inches, 
its shape at first rounded, convex, then flat, concave, 
and finally funnel-shaped, as in many of the species. 
But its decidedly ardent tang in the raw state, as 
reminiscent from my own experience, warns me not 
to dwell too enthusiastically upon its merits in my 
limited selection of desirable esculent species. 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



THE CHANTARELLE 
Cantharellus dbarius 



Bearing somewhat the shape of the Lactarius, but 
having its own distinguishing features, is the Chan- 
tarelle (Plate rg). 

The "Agarics," as already described on page 79, are 
distinguished by the feature of the gills, or thin lam. 
inated curtains  the hymenium  upon 
Flirted which the spores are produced, and 
<" from which they are shed beneath the 
mushroom. These gills vary in thick- 
ness and number in the various species, and in one 
genus are so short, thick, swollen, and branched as 
to give rather the effect of turgid veins than gills, as 
shown in the accom- 
panying sectional 
drawing. We occa- 
sionally come upon 
one of these mush- 
rooms in our walks, 
usually in the woods. 
When it first appears 
the cap is rounded, 
and the rim folded 
inward towards the 
stem ; but in mature 
SECTION OF CHANTARELLE specimens it assumes 

the flat or, later, the 
cup-shaped form shown in Plate 19. 

A fungus thus formed is a Chantarelle, or Can- 
tharellus, and is readily identified. Any specimeo 



(d ant haze llud ctbazlud 



TLATE XIX 

THE CHANTARELLE 
Cantharellus elbarius 

Pileus: At first convex, later flat; three to five inches in di- 
ameter, with central hollow, and finally almost funnel 
form. Color, bright to' deep yellow above and below. 

Gills : Shallow and fluted, resembling swollen veins, branch- 
ed, more or less interconnected and tapering off down the 
stem ; color same as pileus. 

Stem : Solid, generally (often slightly) tapering towards base ; 
paler than pileus or gills. 

Spores: Very pale yellow ochre in color; elliptical. 

Taste: Peppery and pungent in the raw state; mild and 
sweet after cooking. 

Odor : Suggesting ripe apricots or plums. 

Habitat: In woods, especially hemlocks, generally in clusters 
of two or three, or in lines or arcs of several individuals. 



PLATE XIX 



.^t 



CaNTHARELLUS ClBARIUS. 



AGARICS 177 

having these features, and which possesses in addi- 
tion a fine, rich yellow color, is the C. cibarius of 
our plate, the esculent morsel so highly prized by 
epicures on the Continent, where to many  perhaps 
somewhat indiscriminating  gastronomists it forms 
one of the greatest delicacies among the entire list 
of edible fungi. The diameter of the mature speci- 
men may reach five inches, though three inches will 
be nearer the average size. The cap is frequently 

quite eccentric in its form, wavy-edged. 
Botanical or even folded upon itself in occasional 
characters individuals; but the pure, deep yellow 

color " suggesting the yolk of an egg," 
and the swollen, vein -like hymenium, generally of 
a similar color, will be sufficient to distinguish it 
under any disguise of mere form. Another unique 
characteristic is its odor, which suggests ripe apri- 
cots or plums. The taste of the Chantarelle when 
raw is pungent and peppery, but this quality disap- 
pears in cooking. The spores are of a pale yellow - 
ochre color, and beneath the microscope are elliptical 
in shape. 

From the last of May until early November the 
Chantarelle may be found in our woods, with more or 
less frequency, singly or in clusters. According to 
Dr. Badham, an eminent authority on esculent fungi, 

"the best ways of dressing the Chan- 
stewed tarelle are to stew or mince it by itself, 
Chantarelle or to combine it with meat or with 

other fungi. It requires long and gen- 
tle stewing to make it tender, but by soaking it in 
milk the night before, less cooking will be requisite." 



178 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But the recipes employed in Great Britain and 
upon the Continent to the glory of the Chantarelle 
would almost fill a fair-sized receipt book, and some 
of them are quite elaborate. A few of these are giv- 
en in a later chapter. After a trial of a number of 
them the writer is assured that the simple broiling or 
frying in butter or oil, with proper seasoning, and 
serving on toast, will prove a most acceptable sub- 
stitute. 

Another species of Chantarelle, which might possi- 
bly be confounded with the C. cibarius, is the Orange 

Chantarelle, C. aurantiacus, which is 
Another pronounced " scarcely esculent " by the 
species authorities. Its average size is much 
smaller than the true Chantarelle, and 
its much deeper orange hue, and straighter, more 
regularly branched and crowded gills, will readily 
identify it, the gills of cibarius being thicker, and 
usually somewhat eccentric and netted. Like the 
foregoing, it assumes the funnel form with age, as 
indicated in the generic name, Cantharellus  " a di- 
minutive drinking -cup." 




HE previous examples of mushrooms 
have all been included in the order 
of the Agarics, or " gill -bearing " 
fungi, the under spore-bearing sur- 
face of the cap having been disposed 
in the form of laminje or gills. We 
will now pass to the consideration of a class of 
mushrooms certain of which enjoy a wider reputa- 
tion as " toadstools " than any other species, a new 
botanical order of fungi  the Polyporei  in which 
the gills are replaced by pores or tubes  polyporus 
{many pores). Conspicuous among the Polyporei 
are those great shelf -like woody growths so fre- 
quently to be seen on the trunks of trees, and popu- 
larly known as "punk," "tinder," and " touch - wood," 
and many of which increase in size year by year 
by accession of growth at the rim. A few of these 
lateral -stemmed species are edible during their 
young state, one or two of which are included in 
my subsequent pages. But the most notable group 
from the standpoint of esculence is the typical genus 
Boletus, containing a large number of species, and 
of which Plate 20 presents a conspicuous example. 
Especial attention should here be called to the nota- 



I82 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

ble monograph on the Boleti of the United States 
by State Botanist Professor Charles Peck, of Albany 

University, New York, which presents 
Works by detailed descriptions of one hundred 
Prof. Peck and eight indigenous species. Other 

contributions to mycological literature 
by this distinguished American authority are noted 
in my bibliographical list at the close of the volume. 

THE BOLETI 
Tud^ mushrooms 

The structure of these mushrooms is clearly shown 
in Plate 38, in my chapter on "Spore -prints," the 
hymenium being here spread upon the honey-combed 
pore surfaces, and shedding its spores from the tubes. 
Each of these tubes is distinct and may be separated 
from the mass. 

The ideal form as shown in Plate 20 is perfectly 
symmetrical, in which condition the pores would nat- 
urally be perpendicular. But this perfection seldom 
prevails, and we continually find the specimens more 
or less eccentric in shape, especially where they are 
crowded or have met with obstruction in growth. 
But in any case, no matter what the angle or 
distortion of growth during development, the /u6es 
are always adjusted to the perpendicular, or in mal- 
formed individuals as nearly so as the conditions 
will permit, as shown in the section on next page. 

The Boleti are in general a salubrious group. 
Certain species have long been accredited as being 
poisonous, and others excluded from the feast as "sus- 
picious." The early authorities caution us to avoid 



POLYPOREI 183 

all Boleti having any shade of red on the spore^bear- 
ing surface beneath, even as it was originally claimed 
that all red'Capped toadstools were poisonous. But 
from the writer's own individual experiments, rein- 
forced by the experience of others, he is beginning 
to be persuaded that the Boletus as a genus has been 



SECTION OF BOLETUS SHOWIKG PERPENDICULAR TUBES 

maligned. Many species accredited as poisonous he 
has eaten repeatedly without the slightest deleterious 
consequences, including the crimson Boletus, B. ai- 
veolatus (Plate 24, fig. 2), with its red spore surface, 
and the B. subiomeniosus (Plate 22, fig. i), whose yel- 
lowish flesh, like the species just mentioned, changes 
quickly to blue upon fracture, a chemical feature 
which has long stamped both species as dangerous. 



1 84 * EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

 

It is interesting to note that the ban is gradually 
being lifted from the Boleti by mycophagists of 
distinction, largely through their own experiments. 
Thus I note that Mr. Mcllvaine, who has made a 
close study of esculent fungi, in a recent article 
claims that "all the Boleti are harmless, though 
some are too bitter to eat " ; and Mr. Palmer, in his 

admirable portfolio of esculent fungi, 
Maligned includes among his edible species one 
species of those whose flesh " changes color on 
fracture," and which has hitherto been 
proscribed as "off color." Of course, this food se- 
lection would obviously apply only to species of 
inviting attributes, possessing pleasant odor, agree- 
able taste, and delicate fibre. The selection com- 
prised in this volume is confined to a few varieties of 
established good repute. As to the rest if only on 
the consideration of idiosyncrasy  it is wiser to urge 
extreme caution on the lines laid down on page 34. 

The Boletus, like all other mushrooms, passes 
through a variety of forms from its birth to maturity, 

at first being almost round, then con- 
Changes ^^^^ ^jj}^ ^j^^ spore surface nearly flat, 

in growth horizontal, the profile outline finally 

almost equally cushion-like on both up- 
per and lower surfaces, or the upper surface absolutely 
flat. Mere outline drawings of a number of Boleti 
would be almost identical. The form alone, there- 
fore, is of minor importance in their identification. 
Among those more readily recognized by their color 
and structural features, may be classed the following 
common species: 



cJooLetud edulid 



TLATE XX 

EDIBLE BOLETUS 

Boletus edulis 

Pileus: Cushion-like; moist; variable in color, light brown 
to darker brownish red; surface smooth but dull; dimen- 
sions at full expansion, three to six or eight inches. 

Tube surface {A  magnified) : Whitish in very young spec- 
imens, at length becoming yellow and yellowish green. 
Pore openings, angled. 

Spores: Ochre-colored. 

Stem : Stout ; often disproportionately elongated. Pale 
brown, generally with a fine raised net-work of pink 
lines near junction of cap. 

Flesh : White or yellowish, not changing color on fracture. 

Taste : Agreeable and nutty, especially when young. 

Habitat: Woods, especially during July and August; com- 
mon. 



PLAT E XX 



m m 



Boletus Edulis- 



POLYPOREI I 89 

EDIBLE TUBE MUSHROOM 
Boletus edulis 

The most prominent member of the Boleti is the 
typical species whose portrait I have given on Plate 
20, " in vain calling himself * edulis^ where there were 
none to believe him." But in spite of this remark of 

Dr. Badham, which had reference es- 
A famous pecially to his native country, England, 
delicacy this fungus had long been a favorite 
article of food among a large class of 
the more lowly Europeans, to say nothing of the lux- 
urious epicures of the continent. 

Boletus edulis is to be found singly or in groups, 
usually in the woods. Its average diameter is per- 
haps four or five inches, though specimens are occa- 
sionally found of double these dimensions. A letter 
to the writer from a correspondent in the Rocky 
Mountains describes specimens measuring fifteen 
inches in diameter having been found there. 

The cushion - like cap is more or less convex, ac- 
cording to age, of a soft brownish or drab color 

somewhat resembling kid, and with 

Specific velvety softness to the touch. The 

characters under surface or hymenium is thickly 

beset, honey -combed with minute ver- 
tical pores, which will leave a pretty account of them- 
selves upon a piece of white paper laid beneath 
them and protected from the least draught, a proc- 
ess by which we may always obtain a deposit of 
the ochre-tinted spores, as is further described in 
a later chapter. 



IQO EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

In Boletus edulis this pore surface is white in 
young specimens, later yellow, finally becoming 
bright olive -green; flesh white or creamy^ un- 
changeable on fracture. Stem paler than cap, thick, 
swollen at base, often malformed and elongated, es- 
pecially when from a cluster, generally more or less 
covered with vertical raised ridges, which become 
somewhat netted together and pinkish as they ap- 
proach the cap. The taste is sweet, and in the very 
young specimen, which is brittle, quite suggestive of 
raw chestnut. 

Any Boletus answering this description may be 
eaten without fear, assuming, of course, that its sub- 
stance is free from any taint of disso- 
insects lution and traces of insect contamina- 
and decay tion. Both of these conditions are too 

apt to prevail in the mature specimens, 
and all Boleti are more safely employed for food in 
their young crisp stage, or at least before their full 
expansion. In their maturity, moreover, they often 
prove too mucilaginous in consistency to be pleasant 
to the average partaker, especially the novice. 

In preparing them for the table, all that is neces- 
sary is to cut off the stems, which are apt to be 

tough and fibrous, and to wipe the pel- 

Preparatioh Hcle of the cap perfectly clean, or, if 

for table preferred, to pare the pileus with a very 

sharp knife. It is recommended by 
some that the entire mass of the pore section be re- 
moved. In a mature specimen this would reduce 
the bulk of the mushroom by half, and, moreover, 
deprive the remainder of the full flavor of the fun- 



cJooletad dcabet 



"PLATE XXI 

ROUGH-STEMMED BOLETUS 
Boletus scaber 

Pileus: Rounded convex; diameter two to five inches; sur- 
face occasionally smooth and viscid when moist; color 
usually brownish red, but varying from orange brick red 
or even black in certain varieties to yellow or whitish. 

Tube surface : Rounded, cushion-like ; whitish at first, be- 
coming dingy; tube openings small and round, and rather 
long as seen in section. 

Spores: Reddish brown. 

Stem: Solid, dingy white, tapering slightly above, more or 
less thickly beset with brownish, fibrous, dot-like scales, 
this being the most pronounced botanical character for 
identification. 

Flesh : White or dingy in certain varieties, often changing to 
blue, brown, pinkish, or black where wounded. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant. 

Habitat: A common and widely distributed species, with 
many variations of color. Found in woods and shaded 
waste-places. 

Season : July-October. 



Boletus Scaber. 



POLYPOREI 195 

gus. I have not found it necessary, and it is cer- 
tainly needless in a young and tender specimen. 

ROUGH - STEMMED BOLETUS 
Boletus scaber 

This is a very common mushroom in our woods 
all through the summer and autumn, in reasonably 
moist weather. It is figured in Plate 21. The 
cap of an average specimen expands four inches or 
more, is of a brown or brownish buff color, and vis- 
cid when moist. The pore -surface is dingy white^ 
the tube orifices being quite minute and round  not 
so conspicuously angular or honey -combed as in 
other species  and with occasional reddish stains, 
presumably a deposit from the floating spores, 
which are tawny reddish. The flesh is dirty white, 
the stem solid, contracting upwards, and rough with 
fibrous brownish scaly points  whence the name 
**j^a^^ " of ten arranged somewhat in vertical lines. 
Epicures fail to agree as to the esculent qualities of 
this mushroom. It is certainly inferior to the edulis. 

THE YELLOW- CRACKED BOLETUS 
Boletus subtomentosus 

The general contour of the present species  B. 
subtomentosus (Plate 22, fig. i)  resembles the fore- 
going, but it is easily distinguished by 
Specific the color of its cap and tube surface, 
qualities the pileus being usually olive, olive- 
brown, or red of various shades; the 
color, however, does not extend to the flesh beneath 
the peeled cuticle, as in B. chrysenteron. Fig. 2. The 



II 



196 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

surface is soft and dry  subtomentous  to the touch. 
Cracks in the cap become yellow, on which account 
this species is called the "yellow -cracked Boletus," 
in contradistinction to the red -cracked B. chrysen- 
teron. Its most important distinction, however, is of 
a chemical nature. 

The stem is stout, unequal, firm, yellowish, and 
more or less ribbed, occasionally tinted, minutely 
dotted, or faintly striped with the color of the cap. 
The taste of the flesh is sweet and agreeable. 
Palmer compares it to the flavor of walnuts. The 

tube surface is yellow or yellowish green^ 
The blue and the tubes and yellowish flesh of cap 
stain and stem turn a rich peacock -blue im- 
mediately on fracture, becoming deeper 
moment by moment until the entire exposed portion 
becomes leaden  especially noticeable in mature 
specimens. The pore surface shows a similar blue 
stain whenever bruised. The tubes are angular- 
sided instead of round, and much larger than in the 
B. edulis ; spores ochre colored. 

This blue stain was formerly, and is even now, 
deemed sufficient with many mycophagists to place 
this mushroom on the black-list, but is believed by 
Mr. Palmer and Mr. Mcllvaine to be unwarranted 

as a stigma, assuming that fresh speci- 
^" ^ ^ mens are employed. The B. subtomefi- 

unwairanted . 

stigma tosus is also among the eleven edible 

Boleti in the list of Dr. Curtis, given 

on a previous page, and the present author has 

habitually eaten the species with enjoyment and 

without unpleasant results. Fresh young specimens 



i. 



cJooletud dubtomentodud 
cJooietud cfizvdentezon 



TLATE XXII 

YELLOW CRACKED BOLETUS 

1. Boletus subtomentosus 

Pileus : Diameter three to six inches. Color, varying in dif- 
ferent individuals, yellowish brown, olive, or subdued tan 
color; epidermis soft and dry, with a fine pubescence. 
Cracks in surface become yellow. 

Flesh : Creamy white in mature specimens, changing to blue, 
and at length leaden on fracture. 

Tube surface : Yellow or yellowish green, becoming bluish 
when bruised ; opening of tubes large and angled. 

Stem: Stout; yellowish; minutely roughened with scurfy 
dots, or faintly striped with brown. 

Spores: Brownish ochre. 

Taste : Sweet and agreeable. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season : Summer and autumn. 

GOLDEN-FLESH BOLETUS 

2. Boletus chrysenteron 

Pileus : Diameter two to four inches ; convex, becoming 
more flattened ; soft to the touch, varying from light yel- 
lowish brown to bright brick red ; more or less fissured 
with red cracks and clincks. 

Flesh: Rich, bright yellow, red immediately beneath the 
cuticle. 

Tube surface : Olive-yellow, becoming bluish where bruised ; 
tube openings rather large, angled, and unequal in size. 

Stem: Generally stout and straight; yellowish, and more or 
less streaked or spotted with the color of the cap. 

Spores : Light brown. 

Habitat: Woods and copses. 

Season : Summer and autumn. 



POLYPOREI 20 1 

with the least change of color would perhaps be the 
wiser choice for the novice. 

Another species having this peculiar property of 
" turning blue " even in a more marked degree, and 
named, in consequence, the B. cyanescens, though 
always heretofore considered poisonous, is now pro- 
nounced by certain prominent mycoph- 
Caution agists to be not only harmless but es- 
advisabie culent. It is still advisable, however, 

to caution moderation in its use as 
food, if only on the ground of idiosyncrasy. The 
spores of this species are white, which, with the more 
minute tube openings, form a sufficient discrimina- 
tion from subtomentosus. The spores should be ob- 
tained by a deposit on black or dark -colored paper. 
The flesh is white also. Other blue -stain species, 
such as B. alveolatus (Plate 24), are still considered 
with suspicion, presumably groundless. 

YELLOW-FLESHED BOLETUS 
Boletus chrysenteron 

Among the toadstools which tradition would sure- 
ly brand as poisonous on account of " bright color " is 
the common species whose name heads this para- 
graph, and which is jRustrated in Plate 22, fig. 2. In 
its various shapes it suggests the preceding varieties. 
Its cap, however, is brownish red, often bright brick 
red. Flesh almost lemon -yellow, stained red just be- 
neath the cuticle, and not noticeably chaiigeable on 
fracture. Tube surface yellowish green, turning blue 
or bluish green when bruised. Spores light brown. 
Tubes rather large, angular, and unequal in shape of 



202 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

aperture. Stem yellow, often brightly colored with 
the red of the cap. Chance cracks in its surface be- 
come red, whence the common name of the " Red- 
cracked Boletus." A species frequent in woods 
throughout the summer and autumn, and edible. 

In its brightly colored cap it might possibly be 
superficially confounded with the suspicious Boletus 
alveolatus of Plate 24. But the latter speoies is ea- 
sily distinguished by its rose-colored spores and red 
pore surface. 

CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 
Strobilomyces strobilaceus 

Another allied species, not especially famous for its 
esculent qualities, but which is, nevertheless, not to be 
despised, is here introduced on account of its espe- 
cially pronounced character (Plate 23)  the cone-like 
Boletus, or, more properly, Strobilomyces. It is of a 
brownish gray color, its shaggy surface more or less 

studded with deep brown or black wool- 
Botanicai ly points, each at the centre of a scale- 
characters like segment. The tubes beneath are 

covered by the veil in the younger 
specimens, but this at length breaks, leaving ragged 
fragments hanging from the rim of the pileus. The 
pore surface thus exposed is at first a grayish white, 
ultimately becoming brown. The substance of the 
fungus turns red when broken or cut. 

This very striking mushroom is found in woods, 
especially under evergreens. It frequently attains a 
diameter of four inches. Its spores are a deep 
brown, and a specimen selected at the stage when the 



^tzobiiomtjced dttobiiaceud 



TL/ITE XXIII 

THE CONE-LIKE BOLETUS 

Strobllomyces strobilaceas 

Pileus : From two to four inches in diameter, covered with 
a soft gray wool drawn into regular cone -like points 
tipped with dark brown. 
Flesh grayish white, turning red when bruised. 

Pore surface : Grayish white in young specimen, and then 
usually covered with the veil; dark brown or almost 
black at maturity. Plate 38 shows a spore-print of this 
species. 

Spores : Very dark brown. 

Taste : Negatively pleasant 

Odor : Sweet and mild. 

Habitat: Woods; singly or in small clusters. 



PLATE XXII 



Strobilomyces Strobilaceus. 



POLYPOREI 207 

under surface x^flat will yield a most beautiful spore 
print if laid upon white paper and protected from the 
atmosphere, as described in a later chapter. 

A reproduction of one of these prints is shown in 
Plate 38, the white reticulation representing the con- 
tact of the tube orifices with the paper, 
Black each tube depositing its dot composed 
8pore-print5 of spores, the depth of color increasing 

in proportion to the time involved in 
the deposit. A single mushroom will yield a half- 
dozen or more prints. This fungus dries readily, 
and may be kept indefinitely. 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 
Boletus feikus  B. alveolatus 

In Plate 24 are shown two examples of the Boleti 
which have commonly been accounted poisonous  
B. felleus and B. alveolatus  and, in the absence of 
absolutely satisfactory assurance to the contrary, it is 
safer from our present point of view to consider them 

still as suspicious and to give them a 

Maiis:ned wide berth. There can be no doubt 

species but that the popular condemnation of 

the Boleti has been altogether too 
sweeping. The gradual accession of many question- 
able species to the edible list of Messrs. Mcllvaine 
and Palmer and other daring mycophagists is a 
sufficient attestation of this fact. Thus subtomento- 
sus and cyanescens, already described, always hereto- 
fore branded as reprobates, are now redeemed from 
obloquy, and even the universal ill -repute of the B. 
satanaSy with its pale pileus and blood -red pores, 



208 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

has not frightened the indefatigable Captain Mcll- 
vaine from a personal challenge and encounter with 

this lurid specimen, with the result that 
A daring jj^g formidable "Satanas" has proved 

pioneer . , ^ 

mycophagist anything but deserving of its name  

not half so lurid as it has been paint- 
ed; indeed, it has been even pronounced "the best 
of them all." Of course there's no telling to what 
extent the considerations of contrast, through sur- 
prise and the consequent demoralization on the con- 
tingents of the personal equation, may have influ- 
enced the captain's discrimination, but it certainly 
would appear, to put it negatively, that even the ill- 
favored world -renowned B. satanas has apparently 
been freed from aspersion as an enemy of mankind. 

But it is well for the amateur to avoid these notori- 
ous species absolutely until their edibility becomes 
universally accepted by the " professionals." 

The Boletus felleus (Plate 24, fig. i) is a very com- 
mon species. The pinkish substance of this Boletus 

is so extremely bitter when raw as to 

The bitter make it sufficiently repellent as food. 
Boletus The color of its smooth cap varies from 
creamy yellow to reddish brown. Sub- 
stance white in young specimens, flesh color or pink- 
ish in older individuals. Tube surface white at first, 
becoming pinkish. Opening of tubes, angled. Stem 
usually more or less netted with raised lines towards 
cap. Spores pinkish or "flesh colored." Common 
in rich soil in woods. 

Boletus alveolatus.  Pileus smooth and polished, 
usually rich crimson or maroon, sometimes varied 



(zSoletud alveolatud 
cSoletud felleud 



VLATE XXiy 

SUSPICIOUS BOLETI 

Alveolate Boletus Boletus alveolatus 

Pileus : Smooth, polished ; bright, deep crimson or maroon, 
occasionally mottled or marbled with yellowish ; three to 
six inches in diameter. 

Flesh: Firm and solid in substance; pale greenish or yellow- 
ish white, changing blue in fracture or where bruised. 

Tubes: Tube -surface reaching the stem proper; undulate 
with uneven hollows ; maroon, the tubes in section being 
yellow beyond their dark red mouths. 

Spores : Yellowish brown. 

Stem : Usually disproportionately long, covered with depres- 
sions or oblong pitted indentations, with intermediate 
coarse network of raised ridges ; red and yellow. 

Habitat: Woods; quite common. 

Bitter BoletusBoletus felleus 

Pileus : At first firm in substance, becoming soft and cushion- 
like ; smooth, without polish, varying in color from pale 
ochre to yellowish or reddish brown ; diameter three to 
nine inches. 

Flesh: White on immediate section, generally changing to 
slight pinkish or flesh color in fracture. 

Tubes : Tube-surface rounded upward as it reaches stem ; 
white at first, becoming dull pinkish with age, or upon 
being bruised. 

Spores : Flesh colored or dull pink. 

Stem : Usually quite stout, nearly as smooth as the cap, and 
somewhat lighter in color ; more or less ridged with coarse 
reticulations, occasionally covered with them to its thick- 
ened base. 

Taste: Bitter. 

Habitat: Rich woods and copses, often about decaying 
trunks. 



PLATE XXIV 



Suspicious Boleti. 

BOLETUS ALVEOLATUS. B, FELLEUS. 



POLYPOREI 213 

with paler yellowish tints. Substance very solid, 
changing to blue on fracture or bruise. Tube sur- 
face deep dull crimson or maroon, this 
The crimson color not extending the full length of 
Boletus the pores, which are yellow a short dis- 
tance above their mouths. The stem 
is quite stout and tall for the size of the cap as 
compared with other Boleti. It is mottled in yellow 
and bright red or crimson, and conspicuously meshed 
with a net-work of firm ridges. The spores are yel- 
lowish brown. A conspicuous and easily identified 
species. 

THE VEGETABLE BEEFSTEAK 
Fistulina hepatica 

Our next member of the Polyporus order, or tube- 
bearing fungi, is a unique member of the fun- 
gus tribe, and cannot be mistaken for any other 
species. An example of this species is shown in 
Plate 25, the beefsteak mushroom  Fistulina he- 
patica. The specimen from which my drawing was 
made was found growing at the foot of a chestnut- 
tree, and was about nine inches across 
Botanical by about two in greatest thickness. Its 
characters upper surface was dark meaty red or 

liver colored, somewhat wet, or viscid 
and clammy, and its taste slightly acid. The under 
tube surface was yellowish white, and, as the section 
will show, was proportionately thin  the pores being 
about one-eighth of an inch in length. The solid 
red substance much resembled meat, and in sections 
was streaked with darker lines of red, as indicated in 
plate, somewhat suggesting a section of beet-root. 



214 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Though not common in my vicinity, I neverthe- 
less succeed in obtaining a few specimens during 
the season. It varies greatly in size and shape. 
M. C. Cooke, in his admirable "plain and easy" 
account of British fungi, says of it : " When old it 

affords an excellent gravy, and when 
Savory young, if sliced and grilled, would pass 
qualities for a good beefsteak. Specimens are 
now and then met with that would fur- 
nish four or five men with a good dinner, and they 
have been collected weighing as much as thirty 
pounds. The liver, or paler pinkish meaty color, 
clammy viscidity, and streaky section are sufficient 
guides in the recognition of this species." 

It is a highly prized article of diet on the Continent 
where the arts of the chef are ingeniously employed 

in endless recipes for its savory prep- 

Culioary aration, often, it would seem, with the 

preparation main object of obliterating as far as 

possible all trace of the delicate flavor 
of the mushroom per se. 

If the reader's experience correspond with the 
writer's in his mycological experiments "^ la tnode'^ 
he will gladly fall back to the plain plebeian method 
of simply broiling over the coals, or frying or roast- 
ing in the pan, with the least possible seasoning of 
pepper, salt, and butter, relying upon his mushroom 
to furnish the predominant zest and flavor. 

Other hints for serving this fungus are given in a 
later chapter. Besides the common name of " beef? 
steak mushroom," it is also known on the Continent 
as the "oak tongue," and "chestnut tongue." 



cFldtuiltiao kepatica^ 



TLATE XXf^ 

THE BEEFSTEAK MUSHROOM 

Flstulina hepatlca 

 

Pileus : Diameter, average specimen, about six inches, occa- 
sionally twice or three times this size; color varying from 
pinkish to dark meaty red; surface roughened with mi- 
nute papillae; soft and moist. 

Flesh : Light red, streaked with darker red ; tender and juicy 
in young specimens; juice light red. 

Tube surface : Creamy in color ; tubes distinct from each 
other, crowded, very short, as shown in section opposite. 

Stem : Short or obsolete, growing at the side. 

Taste : Slightly acid. 

Habitat : On the stumps and trunks of oak and chestnut trees. 

Season: July-September. 



POLYPOREI 219 

THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 
Falyporus sulphureus 

Probably the most conspicuous member of our na- 
tive polyporei remains to be considered among the 
esculents, though until recently it was included in the 
black list, Dr. Curtis, of North Carolina, I believe, 
having first demonstrated its edibility, though pro- 
nouncing it merely " tolerable." 

The brilliancy of its sulphur- yellow and orange- 
salmon colors, in association with its large size, ren- 
ders it a most conspicuous object, especially from its 



habit of growing in dense clusters, often a number 
of such clusters in close contiguity upon a decay- 
ing stump or prostrate log, frequently so numerous 
and so crowded as to completely conceal the bark 



220 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

beneath, as shown in the accompanying figure, or 
completely covering a space of several square feet 

There lies before me even as I write a fragment 
of a single cluster which I plucked yesterday from the 
trunk of an apparently healthy red -oak near my stu- 
dio, the remainder of the clump having been enjoyed 
as a special course in my dinner of last evening. In 
Plate 26 I present a portrait of this specimen, the 
well-named Sulphur Polyporus  Polyporus sulphu- 
reus. It may be found frequently from July till 
frost upon its favorite, habitat of old trunk, stump, log 
water-trough, or fence- 
post, usually upon wood 
in the early stages of 
decay. A single clus- 
ter will often measure a 
foot in diameter through 
its very solid mass of 
thickened pulpy branch- 
es, its early and escu- 
lent stage being thus 
compact with the sub- 
A YOUNG SPECIMEN divisioos asccndlng 

from their common 
thick stem, the mass somewhat suggesting a cauli- 
flower in shape, as shown in the illustration above. 

The general color at this tender stage is pure sul- 
phur-yellow, this being the ultimate lower or spore 
surface now exposed by its upright position. The 
true upper surface or cap of the later eccentrically 
branched fungus is of a bright orange-salmon color, 
and is mostly concealed by the crowded growth. 



POLYPOREI 221 

The specimen above alluded to would have weigh- 
ed about two pounds, and this central mass was so 
crowded as to afford scarcely a glimpse of the pink- 
ish-orange pileus surface. Upon showing my speci- 
men to a friend, I was informed that a certain log 
by the roadside about two miles distant was covered 

with this same kind of fungus, which 
t ^i^ seemed to be spreading all over the 

wilderness ground. Doubtless ten or twenty 

pounds of good nourishing food was 
thus going begging by the way -side, even in sight 
of a rural homestead, whose lord and master finds 
the butcher's bill a serious drain upon his resources. 

My plate shows a more open cluster of the fungus 
in its earlier stages, the only time when it is fit for 
food. In this condition it is tender, succulent, and 
juicy. In a few days the lobed fringes or fan -like 
divisions have lowered and spread out as widely as 
their crowded condition will permit, assuming the 
horizontal or even drooping position seen at C, and 
at D in the plate, as viewed from above. The pileus 
now being exposed, the fungus presents a deep 
orange -red or salmon color to the beholder, its sul- 
phurous -hued pore surface being turned beneath. 
Its texture at this adult stage is tough, fibrous, and 
almost woody, especially as it approaches the stem, 
and no one would think of eating it. 

The young specimen, however, is quite delicious 
and wholesome, and, considering that a single cluster 
will afford a dinner for a large family, its importance 
as a food product, especially to the farmer or peasant 
who finds economy a necessity, is thus manifest. 



222 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Tasted at the tip, it yields for the first moment of 
mastication an acid flavor recalling that of the Fistu- 
Una hepatica. This is followed by a sweet, slightly 
mucilaginous savor, which, in the realization that the 
species is wholesome, will at once prove an invitation 
to further experiment with the fungus as food. 

The texture of the young mushroom will be found 
to vary in its different parts, extremely tender at the 

thickened tuberculated tips, becoming 
Texture fibrous as the stem is approached, and 

and quality increasing in toughness, in fracture 

suggesting wood in appearance (see A, 
Plate 26), and unless the specimen is very young 
this portion will have to be excluded from the diet. 
Excepting this precaution it needs no preparation 
for the table, assuming, of course, that the substance 
is free from grubs, which will presumably be the 
case, as I have never seen this fungus thus infested 
except in its more advanced woody growth. 

I have not as yet satisfied myself as to the best 
methods of cooking this polyporus. Fried in butter 
it has a tendency to become slightly tough in consist- 
ency, in its white stringy fibre as well as in taste 
closely suggesting the " white meat " of chicken. 

It lends itself well to a stew or ragout, 
Methods and might, perhaps, to a curry, the 

of cooking substance being cut or broken in small 

pieces and treated after the manner 
of meat under similar recipes. Following the hints 
contained in our last chapter, many methods of its 
culinary treatment will suggest themselves. 

The freely expanded specimen of this species is 



<^oiypozud duipkuieud 



TLATE XXyi 

THE SULPHUROUS POLYPORUS 

Polyporus sulphureus 

In the mature specimen the growth is horizontal, spreading 
fan-like from stem, undulating with radiating (lutings. 
Upper surface salmon orange or orange red, the edge 
being smooth and unevenly thickened with nodule -like 
prominences. In young specimen ascending, under yel- 
low surface outwardly exposed. 

Pore Surface : Bright sulphur yellow ; pores very minute. 

Spores : Dingy white. 

Stem : Very short; a mere close attachment for the spreading 
growth. 

Taste: Slightly acid and mucilaginous when raw; after cook- 
ing somewhat suggesting white meat of chicken. 

Odor : Suggesting A. campestris. 

Habitat : On tree trunks, particularly oaks, often growing in 
very large clusters. 

A, Section of fungus showing fibre. 
C. and D, Matured specimen. 



'Ir'l 



^'r 



PLATE XXVI 



POLYPORUS SULPHUREUS. 



POLYPOREI 227 

full of beauty, in its wavy fan-like form and flowing 
lines and flutings presenting a suggestive decora- 
tive theme, whether in the branches of 
'** painting, sculpture, or the plastic arts. 

attributes The pores upon its sulphurous surface 

are so minute as to be scarcely visi- 
ble, but they shed a copious quantity of whitish 
spores. The pileus of the dried specimen is often 
more or less frosted with minute white crystals  
binoxalate of potash  and the spore surface dulls 
to the color of buckskin. 

Another remarkable feature about this fungus, if 
report be true, is its visibility by night, not merely 

from its pale yellow hue, but by an act- 
Luminous ual flood of bluish luminous phospho- 
by night rescent light, the environment of its 

haunt in the woods sometimes being 
lighted up by the effulgence from its ample mass of 
growth, a resource not uncommon among the fungi, 
and popularly known under the name of "foxfire." 
This phenomenon is frequently observable in woods 
at night, following rainy weather. An old stump 
or prostrate log will appear streaked with lines of 
brilliant light. If we approach and detach the loos- 
ened bark, its back and the decayed surface of the 
log thus exposed will prove ablaze in phosphores- 
cence, whose presence had scarcely been suspected 
but for the chance fissures which revealed the tell- 
tale streaks. I recall from my boyhood experience 
one such midnight episode as this in which, from 
the peculiar outline of the fallen trunk and the coin- 
cident circumstance of two approximate dots of brill- 



228 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

iant light suggesting the eyes of a huge puma or 
tiger, I stood spell-bound with momentary fear, until 
I realized that the apparition was only a bugaboo 
after all. Approaching in the darkness, I soon laid 
hold of the rough head of the monster, and with a 
strong pull at the mass of bark of which it was com- 
posed, laid bare several square feet of blazing phos- 
phorescence whose only hint had gleamed through 
those two imaginary eyes, which proved to be holes 
which had disclosed the hidden luminous fungus. 
One authority describes a single mass of this phos- 
phorescence as extending the entire length of a pros- 
trate trunk thirty feet iong. 

Hawthorne records having made good use of fox- 
fire upon one occasion when, left in the lurch at 
night by a canal-boat, he procured a phosphorescent 
flambeau which effectually lighted his path for sev- 
eral miles through the otherwise impassable woods. 



TKll,HE species of fungi thus far described 
have been confined to the two great 
orders of the Agarics and the Polyporei, 
which include the large majority of our 
edible mushrooms and toadstools. 
The remainder of my selection in the 
present chapter comprises scattered ex- 
amples from four other orders: Hydnei (Spine-bear- 
ers), Clavariei (Coral-fungi), and the Trichogastres 
(Puff-balls), all belonging to the first great division 
of the Sporifera. The remaining two species consid- 
ered  Morel and Helvella, of the order Elvellacei  
are my only representatives of the second grand co- 
hort of the Sporidiifera, whose botanical characters 
are described on page 77. 

In our previous examples the hymenium or spore- 
bearing surface has been disposed upon "gills," as in 
the Agarics, and on " tubes " in the Polypores. In the 
Hydnei group, which we will first consider, this dis- 
seminating surface is spread over spines or teeth. 

The examples selected from this order are both in 
the typical genus Hydnum; and the object of this 



232 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



present book on fungi being especially the presenta- 
tion of only such varieties as are conspicuously self- 
placarded by some distinctive marks for identification, 
these delicious spine-bearing or "hedgehog" mush- 
rooms should of course be included  a, genus which 




V..Mi//. 





SECTION OF A HYDNUM 



cannot be mistaken for any other, and which is tn- 
stantly recognized by its own peculiar character, al- 
ready mentioned, its spore surface being beset with 
soft^ drooping spines instead of pores or gills. There 
are more than a score of species. The two more or 
less common with us are the Hydnum repandum^ in 
outline suggesting an ordinary mushroom, and of 



uhyd 



num zepanaum 



'p. 



di 



TLATE XXyil 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 

Hydnum repandum 

Pileus : Diameter two to five inches, generally irregular, with 
the stem off centre. Color varying from pale buff, the 
typical hue, to a distinct bricky red. 

Spines: Beneath the cap, one-quarter to one-third inch in 
length ; soft, creamy in tint, becoming darker in old spec- 
imens. 

Flesh : Creamy white, solid. 

Stem: Often set eccentrically into the cap; proportionately 
thick and short. 

Taste : Slightly aromatic. 

Habitat: Woods or shaded places in rich soil, often in clus- 
ters. 

Season : Summer and autumn. 



PLATE XXVII 



Hydnum Repandum. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 237 

which the above cut represents a section, and the H. 
caput-meduste, or Medusa- head Hydnum. None of 
the group is accounted poisonous, though some of 
them are too tough to be acceptable as food. 

THE HEDGEHOG MUSHROOM 
Hydnum repandum 

In this species, figured on Plate 27, bearing some- 
what the contour of an Agaric, the spines are all 
confined to the lower surface of the expanded cap. 
The general color of the upper surface is bufiE, gen- 
erally very pale, occasionally almost white. The 

spines being of similar hue, this color 

Characters and the smoothness of texture have 
and qualities suggested the Common popular English 

name of "doeskin mushroom." The 
flesh is firm and white or creamy, turning brownish 
when bruised. Its sweet but slightly pungent or 
peppery taste when raw disappears in cooking. It 
is quite frequent in our woods, and if fresh and free 
from insects may be eaten without the slightest hesi- 
tation. It is a species highly favored on the Conti- 
nent, where the surplus yield is habitually dried and 
kept for winter use. The hot flavor of the raw 
Hydnum was formerly sufficient to brand it as poi- 
sonous, Roques, I believe, having been the first to 
demonstrate its edibilit)^ and Dr. Badham to dis- 
tinguish its mimetic flavor  " Hydna as good as oys- 
ters, which they somewhat resemble in taste." 

Cooke and Berkeley describe a variety of this mush- 
room having a distinctly reddish pileus  H. rufescens 
 and Prof. Charles Peck gives the species quite a 



238 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

range in its color gamut " Its color may be pale buff, 
rusty yellow, pale red, or sienna color." The " pale 

buflE " will doubtless be found to be the 

Vaiiations most common. In the variety rufescens 

varieties the size is smaller and the form more 

symmetrical, but the general shape and 

fringe-toothed spore surface are sufficient to identify 

the typical species under any disguise of color. 

The cap is occasionally quite symmetrical, suggest- 
ing the outline of a Boletus in profile, but more com- 
monly is irregular and eccentric, with stem attached 
towards its side, as indicated in section on previous 
page. It may reach the diameter of five inches in 
a fine specimen. 

Its favorite haunt is the open woods, where it may 
be seen from the last of June until September, either 
singly or in clusters, lifting the dried leaves from 
their bed, or occasionally barely revealed beneath 
them. 

But the most important and savory of the entire 
group of Hydnei is the species following: 

THE MEDUSA HYDNUM 
H, caput'tneduscB 

While driving through the White Mountain Notch, 
many years ago, I chanced upon a mass of cream- 
colored, fringy fungus growing upon a fallen beech- 
log by the side of the road. The fungus was then 
entirely new to me, and I lost no time in making 
a sketch of it, with notes. The growth covered a 
space possibly eighteen inches wide by eight in height, 
and I estimated it would weigh fully five pounds, its 



ax)ydnum caput - medudce 



TL/tTE XXVin 

THE MEDUSA MUSHROOM 

Hydnum eaput-medussB 

Spines : The long, soft spines cover the entire exposed por- 
tion of the fungus, which is disposed in fleshy branching 
divisions, each terminating in a ** crown" of shorter, 
drooping teeth. The color is pale buff or dark creamy. 

Stem : Short, concealed beneath the growth. 

Taste : Sweet and aromatic, slightly pungent. 

Habitat: Trunks of trees, especially beech. 

Season : July to October. 



KIX.-HYDNUM CAPUT-MEnUS- 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 245 

most marked feature being the dense growth of 
drooping spines. In my limited knowledge of edible 
fungi at the time, I cautiously left the specimen in 

the woods, afterwards to learn from 

A dinner Dr. Harkness, the mycologist, that I 

thrown away had " thrown away five pounds of the 

most deHcious fungus meat known to 
the epicure." I have since found minor specimens 
many times, and can readily understand the enthu- 
siastic encomiums of my connoisseur friend as to its 
esculent qualities. 

This species (Plate 28) cannot be confounded with 
any other; it is of a dark creamy color, and usually 

grows sidewise upon dead beech wood 
Haunt and (Plate 29), sometimes in great profu- 
descriptlon sion, especially in the summer. The 

soft spines entirely cover the rounded 
branching protuberances of the fungus. The upper 
teeth are short and form a sort of "crown," falling 
from which the more and more elongated spines are 
firmly pendent beneath, somewhat suggesting as many 
heads of tiny skye-terriers in crowded convocation 
 or a tiny bleached " hedgehog," if you choose. 

A fungus bearing such conspicuous characteristics 
may be gathered and eaten without fear, assuming 
the specimen to be fresh and free from grubs. It will 
be found an aromatic and savory morsel, though sim- 
ply fried in butter and served on toast. 

One other species may be mentioned briefly, the 
H. coralloides, or Moss -mushroom, which is unfamil- 
iar to the writer, but which Curtis includes among 
his edible fungi. It may be found growing sidewise 



246 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

" on old trunks of living trees," at first white^ then 
yellowish, resembling when young the chou-fl^ur 

(cauliflower). From its base, which is 
MosB- tender and fleshy, spring a large num- 

mushroom ber of flexible branches, interlaced and 

assembled in tufts, bearing upon the 
summit of each of their divisions an expansion of 
long points or projections, at first straight, then pen- 
dent, and j^ven curved under, and terminating in 
layers. Cordier says that it is " delicate food." 

Professor Peck speaks enthusiastically of this spe- 
cies. " It is found in woods, especially in hilly and 
mountainous districts, and occurs during rainy or 
showery weather from August to October. It is a 
pretty fungus, and very attractive to those who are 
neither botanists nor fungus eaters, and it is as good 
as it is beautiful. In our botanical expeditions in the 
vast wilderness of the Adirondack region, we were 
often obliged to camp in the woods several nights in 
succession. On such occasions this fungus some- 
times formed a luxurious addition to our ordinarily 
simple and sometimes limited bill of fare." 

The Hydnei may be cooked in the same manner 
as employed for the ordinary mushroom, or gathered 

and dried for winter use, a very com- 

"I'^^tir" ^^^^ custom on the Continent. Owing 
kitchen to the somewhat firm, compact sub- 
stance of these mushrooms they should 
be cooked slowly^ in order to preserve their tender- 
ness. Berkeley recommends that they be " previously " 
steeped in hot water. Badham especially favors the 
Hydnum stew, which he claims is " an excellent dish 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI .247 

with a flavor of oysters." According to the same au- 
thority it yields also a "very good puree." The 
" oyster " flavor is recognized in many of the epicu- 
rean encomiums on this species. Various hints as 
to its culinary treatment will be found in a later 
chapter. 

THE CORAL OR CLUB FUNGUS 

Clavaria 

What frequenter of the summer and autumn woods 
has failed to observe that occasional dense cluster of 
creamy-colored, coral-like growth such as I have indi- 
cated at Plate 30, and who has thought to gather up 

its fragile, succulent mass with designs 

A neglected on the cook ? I have seen clusters of 

feast this fungus so dense and ample as to 

strikingly suggest a huge cauliflower, 

and representing many pounds in weight. But in 

the absence of popular appreciation it must needs 

decay by "whole hundred -weights" in the woods. 

This is the Clavaria, or coral fungus  more literal- 
ly translated, though less appropriate to this partic- 
ular species, "club fungus"  a representative of a 
genus containing many edible species. 

The one presented in the Plate is Clavaria for- 
mosa, or the elegant Clavaria. It grows from four 
to six inches in height, is deep creamy yellow or pale 
orange buff in color, and slightly reddish at tips of 
branches. It has a sweet taste, a fragile, brittle con- 
sistency, and white substance; its spores are pale- 
ochre colored. Curtis gives thirteen edible native 
species. Among them are the following, which hard- 



EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 



ly call for severe technical description, as the entire 
group are doubtless edible: 

The /rw^ "coral fungus"  Clavaria coralloides  
of our woods resembles C.formosa in general shape, 



THE WHITE CORAL FUNGUS 

but its color is white, or perhaps pale gray. Its thick 
stem is hollow, and its uneven, crowded branches are 
brittle and flesh-white. Its odor is 
cuvarfa like that of the Agaricus campestris, 
coralloides and it possesses a sweet, pleasant fla- 
vor. Cordier recommends it as eatable 
even when raw. This species is in great favor in 
Germany, Switzerland, and Italy, where it is desic- 
cated for winter use. 



(oLavazidD fotmodoo 



TLATE XXX 

THE CORAL FUNGUS 

Clavarla formosa 

Thickly branched from a stout pale base, the dense branchlets 

being tipped with two or three minute teeth. 
Color : Saffron yellow. Tips generally darker and more rosy. 
Flesh: White. 
Spores: Ochre-tinted. 
Taste : Sweet, tender, and delicate. 
Height: Four to six inches. 
Habitat: Woods. 



PLATE XXX 



Clavaria Formosa. 



I, 
f 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 255 

Clavaria fastigiata is a somewhat dwarf variety, 
usually found on lawns and pastures, seldom reach- 
ing a height of more than two inches. 
Clavaria In general aspect it resembles Fig. 3 in 
fastigiata Plate 31. It is of a yellow color, very 

densely branched from its short, slender 
stem close to the ground, the branches mostly termi- 
nating at the same height. 

All of the above-mentioned species, except C.for- 
mosUy have white spores, and while none of the genus 

is considered poisonous, though some 
wiiite-spored are so bitter and of such tough con- 
species edible sistency as to make them unfit for food, 

it is generally conceded among the au- 
thorities that all white-spored Clavarias are certainly 
edible. The spores are easily obtained by simply 
laying the fungus upon a dark surface and excluding 
the air, as directed in a later chapter. 

The various forms assumed by the Clavarei are 
indicated in Plate 31. 

Fig. I is C.Jlava; 2. C. stricta; 3. C umbrina; 4. 
C rugosa; 5. C amethystina. Any specimen bearing 
resemblance to any of these in form, and which is 
found to have white spores, may be eat^n without 
fear. 

The Clavaria forms a most inviting relish by the 
simple process of frying in butter, with seasoning to 
taste. They have the advantage of being quite free 
from "fungus -worms," and in the larger species are 
occasionally so plentiful that a half -bushel may be 
gathered in a few moments. 

Another species bearing the general shape sug- 



I 



256 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

gested in Plate 31, fig. i, is the C botrytis. It has a 
thick, fleshy trunk and swollen branches. Its sub- 
stance is very brittle ; color creamy-yellow, with red- 
tipped branchlets. It is found in woods. 

THE MOREL 
Morchella esculenta 

In decided contrast to any of the foregoing fungi, 
and of unmistakable aspect, is the famous Morel, 
Morchella esculefiia (Plate 32). 

The Morel belongs to a cohort of fungi known 
as the Sporidiifera, in which the spores are enclosed 
in bag-like envelopes^ in distinction to the Sporifera, 

in which the spores are naked and ex- 
Botanical posed, as shown in Plates 35 and 36. 

characters These cysts, or bags, or asci, which re- 
semble the cystidium in Plate 35, and 
in the family of Ascomycetes, to which the Morel 
belongs, each contains about eight spores, which are 
finally liberated by the bursting of the tip of the 
bag, after the manner of a Puff-ball, 

In the Morel the hymenium or spore-bearing sur- 
face is crowded with these cysts, and covers the 
entire exposed conical and pitted surface of the 
mushroom. 

Description is hardly necessary with its portrait 
before us. No other fungus at all resembles it ex- 
cept those of the same genus, and inasmuch as they 
are all edible, we may safely add to our bill of fare 
any fungus which resembles our illustration. The 
Morel has long been considered as one of the rarest 
of delicacies, always at a fancy premium in the 



(yJoozckeUa^ edculenta^ 



TLATE XXXII 

THE MOREL 

Horchella esculenta 

Pileus : Oval, elliptical, or round in outline; diameter one inch 
to three inches in a large specimen ; hollow. Color pale 
yellowish brown, varying to greenish ; surface more or 
less regularly honeycombed with deep depressions. 

Stem : Hollow, dingy white, united to the base of pileus. 

Taste : Sweet and pleasant. 

Habitat : Woods, orchards, and shaded grassy places. 

Season : May and June. 



PLATE XXXII 



/AORCHELLA ESCULENTA. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 26 1 

markets a bon-mot for the rich, a prize for the peas- 
ant. I could fill all my allotted space with the 
delicate schemes of the chefs in its preparation for 
the table. 

Dr. Badham's recommendation, among my list of 
recipes, is worth a trial for the sake of novelty, if 
nothing more. The hollow shape of our Morel thus 
suggests a variation on the conventional methods of 
cooking. 

The color of the Morel in its prime is grayish- 
green, occasionally brownish. It is most commonly 
found in orchards, and is said to favor spots where 
charcoal or cinders have been thrown. 

HELVELLA 
Helvella crispa 

One of the most strikingly individual of all the 
mushrooms, and one which could not possibly be 
confounded with any other kind, is the example pict- 
ured in Plate 33. With this mere  portrait as our 
guide, we might safely classify our specimen  at least, 
as to its genus ; and inasmuch as no one of the 

group is poisonous, and all are edible 
Specific with varying degrees of esculence, we 
characters can make no mistake even in oiir vent- 
ures as amateur mycophagists. When, 
therefore, we find a fungus with such a peculiar, ir- 
regularly fluted and hollowed stem, itself hollow 
within, or tubular, and surmounted with a rather thin, 
flexible, wavy cap, resembling our illustration, we may 
know that we have a specimen of Helvella. If this 
example happens to be creamy above and ochre- 

14 



262 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

colored beneath, it is the Helvella crispa of our Plate. 
The specimen here shown is somewhat larger than 
in nature. Other species are differently formed and 
colored, one of them having the cap dark ash-colored 
or even black. There are three species occasionally 
met with, of which the first, H. crispa^ is the most 
common and perhaps the most delectable. 

The peculiar texture of these mushrooms permits 
of their ready desiccation, and in Britain and on the 
Continent they are commonly strung on strings and 
dried for future use, in which condition they have 
been compared to dried "wash-leather" in texture. 

The famous aristocratic Morel {Mor- 
Dried chella esulenta\ already described, so 

mu8hrooiii5 prized as food in Europe, and to which 

the Helvella is closely allied, has a sim- 
ilar irregular, pitted, hollowed, and netted surface 
over its entire conical or globular gray cap, and the 
same texture. Most competent judges claim that 
the delicious Morel possesses no advantages over 
the more plebeian Helvella as a delicacy for the 
table. The flavor is identical, and the other qual- 
ities of the two mushrooms make them equally 
desirable. 

The readiness with which they may be dried, and 
thus kept indefinitely, is another distinct advantage 
which the Morels and Helvellas possess over the 
ordinary gilled Agarics, many of which must be gath- 
ered in their young prime and immediately eaten. 

There are numerous ways of serving these fungi, 
among which is the common method of frying with 
butter or oil, and variously seasoning with onion. 



^Selvella^ ctidpa^ 



TLATE XXXlll 

THE WHITE HELVELLA 
Helvella crlspa 

Pileus: Two to three inches in diameter; wavy or curled, 
reflexed at edges, often puckered towards centre; white 
or pale creamy; somewhat leathery in texture in older 
specimens. 

Spore surface : On underside of cap, ochraceous. 

Stem : White, more or less furrowed with vertical hollows. 

Taste : Similar to Morel, to which it is closely allied. 

Habitat: Woods. 

Season: Summer and autumn. 



PLATE XXXII 



Helvella Crispa. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 267 

garlic, herbs, etc., according to taste, and serving on 
toast, or with crisped bread-crumbs. Our chapter on 
recipes will suggest other more elaborate methods. 

PUFF-BALLS 
Lycoperdacex 

A detailed discrimination of the Puff-balls is hard- 
ly necessary here, and I will therefore omit it. While 
I am not inclined to go so far as to contend, as was 
the quaint habit of old Dr. Culpeper, in his Herbal^ 
in which he was wont similarly to elude description 
of an herb, affirming that "he were a fool indeed 
who does not know this plant"  or words of similar 




SECTION OF PUFF- 



import  it is perfectly safe to say that if there is one 
fungus more than another with which the populace 
is specifically familiar it is the Puff-ball. 

In these fungi, of which there are many species, 
the spores are incased within the white or dingy 
peridium or more or less globular case  gasteromy- 
cetes, from gaster, a stomach. The interior spore 
substance is at first white and firm in structure, at 



268 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

length peppered with gray, both conditions being in- 
dicated in accompanying cut, and ultimately black 
or brown, after which the outer case becomes dry 
and papery, and soon bursts at the summit, liberat- 
ing its clouds of spores with the slight- 
spore-clottd est zephyr, or, later, becoming dislodged 
dissemination from its slender anchorage to the soil, 

is whisked before the breeze envelop- 
ed in its spore -smoke. Fries, the eminent fungol- 
ogist, has reckoned the number of these spores in a 
single Puff-ball at ten millions  presumably a con- 
servative estimate. 

But it will surprise most people to know that the 
plebeian Puff-ball of our pastures is good for some- 
thing besides the kick of the small boy. 

There are a number of species of the PufiF-ball, 
and none of them is known to be poisonous. 

I have indicated an arbitrary group in Plate 34 
ranging in shape and size from the small white 
globular variety of an inch in diameter, Z. saccatum^ 
and the pear-shaped L. gemmatum, to the giant past- 
ure species, which may frequently at- 
Various tain the dimensions of a foot- ball or 
spedes a bushel basket. In its larger dimen- 
sions it is more spreading in shape, 
being somewhat wider than high. All the Puff-balls 
are edible if gathered at the white stage  ue.^ white 
pulp; those of yellow or darker fracture being ex- 
cluded, as the fungus in this later stage is not con- 
sidered fit for food. 

Of the esculent qualities of the larger species, Lycch 
perdon giganteum, we may judge from the statement 



q3) gtoiip of Jouff - kalU 



TL/1TE XXXiy 

A GROUP OF PUFF-BALLS 

LycoperdacesB 

The group opposite represents three species. The largest, 
L giganteum; the pear-shaped, L gemmatum; and the small, 
round L saccatum. 

L giganteum. The largest species. Diameter ten to twenty- 
five inches; often more spreading in shape than speci- 
men shown; surface smooth; stem hardly apparent ; color 
dingy white in the edible state, at which time the solid 
flesh is also white. Spore dust, at maturity, yellowish 
brown. Grows in fields and pastures. 

L. gemmatum. Stem prolonged and tapering from above, sug- 
gesting the specific name pear-shaped ; color dingy white ; 
surface covered with deciduous warts ; substance, young 
state, while ; spore dust brown ; height two to three 
inches. 

. saccatum. Stemless; white; setting close to the ground; 
one to two inches in diameter; surface covered with loose, 
warty granules ; substance, young state, white ; spore dust 
brown. 

These and all other Puflf-balls are edible in the young condi- 
tion when the pulp is white. 



PLATE XXXIV 



A Group of Puff-Balls. 

LYCOPERDON GIGANTEU/^. L.GEWMATUM, L.SACCATUM. 



MISCELLANEOUS FUNGI 273 

of a connoisseur : " Sliced and seasoned in butter and 
salt, and fried in the pan, no French omelette is half 

as good in richness and delicacy of 

Esculent flavor." M. C Cooke, the British au- 

qualities thority, says of it : " In its young and 

pulpy condition it is excellent eating, 

and indeed has but few competitors for the place of 

honor at the table." Other epicurean suggestions 

will be found in a later page. Occasionally in its 

plenitude, especially during August and September, 

single clusters will be found which would afford a 

meal for a large family. 

Other species, more or less frequent, are the L. 
separanSy whose outer epidermis cracks ofif in flakes 
at maturity; L. cyathiforme, or cup-shaped Lycoper- 
don, a large species with distinctly purplish smoke 
so familiar to us all, the final cup -shaped remnant 
of its case having suggested its name. The larger 
specimens will be found the more fully flavored. 

There is but one danger which would seem to be 
possible with reference to the use of the Puff-ball as 

food within the restrictions already 
Closing words given, and that is, the remote contin- 
of caution gency  assumable only on the suppo- 
sition of most careless observation  of 
confounding the white ball with the globular condi- 
tion of the Amanita (see Plate 2, fig. i), or other 
fungi of the same deadly group, which are similarly 
enclosed in a spherical volva in their early stages. 

But inasmuch as this spherical period of the Ama- 
nita is usually spent underground and out of sight, 
and the merest glance at its contents would at once 



274 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

reveal the folded form of the enclosed mushroom, it 
would hardly seem necessary to warn the intelligent 
reader. But "once warned, twice armed;" and for 
absolute safety the tyro would do well to open every 
 specimen, and be sure of its even, white, homogeneous 
substance before turning it over to the cook. 

There are a number of other esculent species of 
fungi as easily available and enjoyable as those al- 
ready described, but the scheme of the volume would 
hardly warrant their inclusion. Even though the ele- 
ment of danger is practically eliminated, so far as the 
identification of the foregoing fungi is concerned, it 
is still wise for the amateur to proceed with caution 
until he has absolutely Uartted the individual species 
in their various forms of development 



tM 



^xe-pttriU 



Puff-ball, floating its faint 

_ breeze from the ragged flue 

gt its dome-shaped roof as from an elfin tepee, or per- 
haps enveloping our feet in its dense purple cloud as 
we chance to step upon it in the path, is familiar 
to every one. To the mycophagist connoisseur, on 
the alert for every delectable fungus morsel for his 
fastidious appetite, the Puff-ball is in- 
Pufr-tMll deed pleasantly familiar, though a spec- 
"pore-cioud imen in such a powdery stage as the 
above is apt to bring only regrets that 
its discovery has been thus delayed, for in its earlier 
firm white stage he knows it at his table as a most 
delicate entree of "mock omelet." 

The old-time country physician gathered its pow- 
dery bag and carefully preserved it for another pur- 
pose, its spongy, dusty contents having been a time- 
honored remedy as a styptic, or for the arrest of 
hemorrhage from wounds. But by no class of the 
community perhaps is it so enthusiastically welcomed 
as by the small boy, to whom it is always a challenge 
for a kick and a consequent demonstration of smoke 
worthy of a Fourth -of- July celebration. 



278 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A week ago this glistening gray bag, so free with 
its dust-puff at the slightest touch, was solid in sub- 
stance and as white as cottage cheese in the fracture. 
In this condition, sliced and fried, it would have 
proven a veritable delicacy upon our table, quite sug- 
gesting an omelet in consistency and flavor, and in 
size also, if perchance we had been favored with 
one of the larger specimens, which frequently ap- 
proaches the dimensions of a football. 

But in a later stage this clear white fracture would 
have appeared speckled or peppered with gray spots 

(see page 271), and the next day entire- 
Development ly gray and much softened, and, later 
of spores again, brown and apparently in a state 

of decay. But this is not clecay. This 
moist brown mass by evaporation becomes powdery, 
and the Puff-ball is now ripe, and preparing for 
posterity. 

Each successive squeeze, as we hold it between our 
fingers, yields its generous response in a puff of 
brown smoke, which melts away apparently into air. 
But the Puff-ball does not thus end in mere smoke. 

This vanishing purple cloud is corn- 
Buoyant posed of tiny atoms, so extremely mi- 
spore-atoms nute as to require the aid of a powerful 

microscope to reveal their shapes. Each 
one of these atoms, so immaterial and buoyant as to 
be almost without gravity, floating away upon the 
slightest breath, or even wafted upward by cur- 
rents of warm air from the heated earth, has with- 
in itself the power of reproducing another clump of 
Puff-balls, if only fortune shall finally lodge it in con- 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 279 

genial soil. These spores are thus analogous to the 
seeds of ordinary plants. The number of these vital 
atoms or spores in a single Puff-ball is almost past 
computation. Fries, however, an eminent f ungologist, 

went to some pains to estimate this 

Number number, and, referring to a certain puff- 

of spores ball, says : " The spores are infinite. In 

a single individual of Reticularia max- 
ima I have reckoned ten millions so subtle as to 
resemble thin smoke as light as if raised by evapo- 
ration, and dispersed in so many ways  ^by the sun's 
attraction, by insects, by adhesion and elasticity  that 
it is difficult to conceive the spots from which they 
could be excluded." 

We have seen the myriad-fold dispersion of its po- 
tential atoms in the cloud of spore-smoke, but who 

ever thinks of a spore -cloud from a 
^^f^S^"^ mushroom or a toadstool? Yet the 
mushrooms method of the Puff-ball is followed by 

all the other fungi, with only less con- 
spicuousness. The Puff-ball gives a visible salute, 
but any one of the common mushrooms or toadstools 
will afford us a much prettier and more surprising 
account of itself if we but give it the opportunity. 
This big yellow toadstool out under the poplar-tree 
 its golden cap studded with brownish scurfy warts, 
its under surface beset with closely plaited laminae or 
gills  who could ever associate the cloud of dry 
smoke with this moist, creamy -white surface? We 
may sit here all day and watch it closely, but we shall 
see no sign of anything resembling smoke or dust, 
albeit a filmy emanation is continually eluding us. 



28o EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

floating away from beneath its golden cap, the eager 
breeze taking such jealous care of the continual 
shower that our eyes fail to perceive a hint of it. 

Do you doubt it ? You need wait but a few mo- 
ments for a visible demonstration of the fact in a 
pretty experiment, which, when once observed, will 
certainly be resorted to as a frequent pastime in lei- 
sure moments when the toadstool or 
Catchias mushroom is available. 
the spores Here is a very ordinary-looking spec- 
imen growing beside the stone steps 
at our back door perhaps. Its top is gray, its gills 
beneath are fawn -colored. We may shake it as 
rudely as we will, and yet we shall get no response 
such as the Puff-ball will give us. But let us lay 
it upon a piece of white paper, gills downward, on 
the mantel, and cover it with a tumbler or finger- 
bowl, so as to absolutely exclude the least admission 
of air. At the expiration of five minutes, perhaps, 
we may detect a filmy pinkish -yellow tint on the 
paper, following beneath the upraised border of the 

cap, like a shadow faintly lined with 

A white. In a quarter of an hour the 

spore-portrait tinted deposit is perceptible across the 

room, and in an hour, if we carefully 
raise the mushroom, the perfect spore-print is revealed 
in all its beauty  a spore -tint portrait of the un- 
der surface of the mushroom  a pink -brown disk 
with a white centre, which indicates the point of con- 
tact of the cut stem, and white radiating lines, rep- 
resenting the edges of the thin gills, many of them 
as fine and delicate as a cobweb. 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 28 1 

Every fresh species experimented with will yield 
its surprise in the markings and color of the prints. 

These spore -deposits are, of course, fugitive, and 
will easily rub off at the slightest touch. But inas- 



MAKING THE PRINT 



much as many of these specimens, either from their 
beauty of form or exquisite color, or for educational 
or scientific purposes, it will be desirable to preserve, 
I append simple rules for the making and "fixing" 
of the prints by a process which was original with 



282 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the writer, and which he has found most effective 
for their preservation. 

Take a piece of smooth white writing-paper and 
coat its surface evenly with a thin solution of gum- 
arabic, dextrine, or other mucilage, and 
^^J*J?"^ allow it to dry. Pin this, gummed side 
spore-prints uppermost, to a board or table, prefer- 
ably over a soft cloth, so that it will lie 
perfectly flat. To insure a good print the mushroom 
specimen should be fresh and firm, and the gills or 
spore-surface free from breaks or bruises. Cut the 
stem off about level with the gills, lay the mushroom, 
spore -surface downward, upon the paper, and cover 
with a tumbler, finger-bowl, or other vessel with a 
smooth, even rim, to absolutely exclude the slightest 
ingress of air. After a few hours, perhaps even 
less, the spores will be seen through the glass on 
the paper at the extreme edge of the mushroom, their 
depth of color indicating the density of the deposit 
If we now gently lift the glass, and with the utmost 
care remove the fungus, perhaps by the aid of pins 
previously inserted, in a perfectly vertical direction, 
without the slightest side motion, the spore -print in 
all its beauty is revealed  perhaps a rich brown cir- 
cular patch with exquisite radiating 
Various colors white lines, marking the direction and 
of spores edges of the gills, if an Agaric ; perhaps 

a delicate pink, more or less clouded 
disk, here and there distinctly and finely honey-comb- 
ed with white lines, indicating that our specimen is 
one of the polypores, as a Boletus. Other prints will 
yield rich golden disks, and there will be prints of 




PtATl XXXV. SPORE- SURFACE OF AN AGARIC 




#::/ 



Spore 

Spore-print 

Platb XXXVI, spore-surface OF POLYPORUS {BOLETUS) 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 287 

varying red, lilac, green, orange, salmon -pink, and 
brown and purple, variously lined in accordance with 
the nature of their respective parent gills or pores. 

Occasionally we shall look in vain for our print, 
which may signify that our specimen had already 
scattered its spores ere we had found it, or, what is 

more likely, that the spores are invisi- 

Invisible ble upon the paper, owing to their white- 

prinu ness, in which case black or colored 

paper must be substituted for the white 
ground, when the spores will be beautifully manifest 
in a white tracery upon the darker background. One 
of these, from the Amanita muscarius, is reproduced 
in Plate 37. If the specimen is left too long, the 
spore-deposit is continued upward between the gills, 
and may reach a quarter of an inch in height, in 
which case, if extreme care in lifting the cap is used, 
we observe a very realistic counterfeit of the gills of 
the mushroom in high relief upon the paper. A 
print of this kind is of course very fragile, and must 
be handled with care. But a comparatively slight 
deposit of the spores, without apparent thickness, will 
give us the most perfect print, while at the same 

time yielding the full color. Such a 

Fixing print may also be fixed by our present 

tlie print method so as to withstand considerable 

rough usage, by laying the paper upon 
a wet towel until the moisture has penetrated through 
and reached the gum. The spores are thus set, and, 
upon drying the paper, are securely fixed. Indeed, 
the moisture exuded by the confined fungus beneath 
the glass is often sufficient to set the spores. 



288 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A number of prints may be obtained successively 
from a single specimen gathered at its fruitful prime. 
To those of my readers interested in the science of 
this spore -shower I give illustrations of examples of 
the two more common groups of mushrooms  the 
Agaric, or gilled mushroom, and the Polyporus, or 

tube -bearing mushroom. The entire 

Agarics surface of both gills and pores is lined 

and Polypores with the spore -bearing membrane or 

hymenium, the spores being produced 
in fours from each of the crowded sporophores, and, 
where all air is absolutely excluded, permitting them 
to fall directly beneath their point of departure as 
indicated; in the case of the Agaric, in radiating 
lines in correspondence with the spaces between the 
gills ; and in Polyporus, directly beneath the opening 
of each pore, whose inner surface is lined with the 
sporophores, as shown in Plate 36. 

This dust-shower is continuous in nature after the 
perfect ripening of -the spores, but it is almost impos- 
sible to conceive of such an entire absence of moving 
air under natural conditions as to permit even a 
visible hint of the spore-shower to appear beneath its 
respective fungus. An exception to this rule is 

sometimes to be seen in fungi of mass- 

Spore-mist ^j growth  as, for example, beneath 

Agaric such a cluster as that shown on page 

147. Indeed, a correspondent recently 

described such a cluster as " enveloped in a mist of its 

own spores floating away in the apparently still air." 

In Plate 38 is shown a spore-print with a peculiar 
elongated tail. Such was the specimen which I ob- 



B XXXVIE.-SPORE-PRINT OF AMANITA MUSCARIUS 



-ACTION OF SLIGHT DRAUGHT ON SPORES 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 



293 



served when lifting the pasteboard box which had 
been placed above the mushroom to absolutely ex- 
clude the air. The explanation was simple when I 
discerned that the tapering elongation pointed direct- 
ly to a tiny hole in the box barely 
Affected larger than a knitting-needle. 

by a pin-hole ^. - r ^  1 

draft The greatest portion of the myriads 

of spores are wafted to the ends of the 
earth, and form an important element in the so-call- 
ed " dust '* so unwelcome to the tidy housewife. A 




FUNGUS SPORES 



sticky glass slide exposed to the deposit of' such dust, 
and placed beneath the microscope, will reveal many 
fungus spores. The air is full of them. 



294 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

A few of the various characteristic forms of these 
fungus-spores is shown on a previous page, somewhat 
as a powerful microscope would reveal them to us. 

But it is only as they chance to alight individually 
in congenial conditions for growth that they will con- 
sent to vegetate. Thus billions of them are doomed 
to perish without progeny. These whims of habitat 

among the fungi are almost past belief. 

Whims Here, for instance, is a tiny Puff-ball 

of habitat hardly larger than the period on this 

page. It bursts at the summit, and 
sheds its puff of microscopic spores, so light as to 
be without gravity, floating and settling everywhere 
upon the earth, but only as they chance to alight 
upon the spines of a dead chestnut- burr of two years' 
decay will they find heart to grow. Such is the 
fastidiousness of the little white mushroom, whose 
globular caps dot the spines of the decaying chest- 
nut-burrs in so many damp nooks in the woods. 

In closing my chapter a glance at the further ec- 
centricities of choice will not be inopportune. I ap- 
pend a few taken at random from the 
Curious pages of Berkeley, which lie open be- 
fastidiousness fore me. In addition to the general 

broad distinctions of habitat as " woods,'' 
" rotten wood," " old pastures," " dunghills," we find 
such fastidious selections as the following, each by a 
distinct species with its own individual whim : " Dead 
fir-cones, sawdust, beechnuts, plaster walls, old fer- 
menting coffee-grounds, wheat ears, cinders, dead oak 
leaves, old linen, wheat bread, hoofs, feathers, decayed 
rope, fat, microscopic lenses, and damp carpets." 



MUSHROOM SPORE-PRINTS 295 

A complete list of these exclusive habitats of fungi 
would well fill a large book, and might indeed almost 
involve the " index " of our botanies and zoologies, 
to say nothing of organic substances generally. 

Plants, both living and dead, are favorite habitats 
for various species. The old stems of the common 
European nettle, according to Cooke, becomes the 
host of about thirty distinct species of the minute 
fungi. The toadstool itself is often the victim of 
other minor species. Insects are a frequent prey. 
The wasp succumbs to its special fungus parasite, 
which has formed a home within its body, and the 

common house-fly is seen in the toils 

House-fly of its similar enemy, as it hangs help- 
fungus less by its proboscis upon the window- 
pane, enveloped in the winding-sheet 
of white mould from the fungus which has done its 
work within the insect's body. Spiders, locusts, 
ants, cicadae, and presumably all insects, are subject 
to similar fate from their especial parasitic fungi. 
The fungus thus often comes to the rescue of afflicted 
humanity in regulating the undue increase of insect 
pests. Here is a pretty, slender, orange, pointed mush- 
room growing in the moss. We pluck it from its 
' bed, and it brings to the surface a chrysalis, with the 
dead moth distinctly seen within the cavity from 
which its roots spring. When we next come upon 
this species in the moss, we may confidently predict 
the discovery of this same species of chrysalis. 

A similar long, slender fungus springs from the 
head of a caterpillar in New Zealand, and at length 
almost absorbs the insect's body. A similar species 



296 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Upon another caterpillar is carefully collected and 
desiccated by the Chinese, with whom it forms an im- 
portant article in their native pharma- 
^^J!**? copoeia, and, moreover, it seems, may be 
fune) perhaps appropriately included among 
the " edibles," for are we not assured by 
these expert and indiscriminate epicures of the chop- 
sticks that this species " makes an excellent dressing 
for roast duck." 



CoDceniliif "Masbroines aod Tadstoles" 

D now for that our fine 
mouthed and daintie wantons 
who set such store by their 
tooth ; take so great delight 
to dress this only dish with 
their own hands, that they 
d thereon in conceit and cogi- 
)l the while they be handling 
paring the same, furnished in 
;ir businesse with their fine 
ind razors of amber and other 
)f silver about them. 
r my part also am content to 
id accomodate myself to their 
ous fancie and will shew unto 
them in general! certaine observa- 
tions and rules how to order and use them 
that they may be eaten with securitie. " 

PLINIUS Secundus. 



for 
say, 

fungi is well worth emphasizing in our pages; afford- 
ing, as it does, a most suggestive commentary on the 
universal popular ignorance, so far as America is con- 
cerned, of the economic value of this perennial of- 
fering of Nature, which abounds in such luxuriance 
throughout our continent. 

" I have this autumn myself," he writes, " witnessed 
whole hundred-weights of rich, wholesome diet rot- 
ting under trees; woods teeming with 
The spurned food, and not one hand to gather it ; 
 harvest and this, perhaps, in the midst of a po- 
tato-blight, poverty, and all manner 
of privations, and public prayers against imminent 
famine. ^ 

" I have, indeed, grieved, when I have reflected on 
the straitened condition of the lower classes this year, 
to see pounds innumerable of extempore beefsteaks 
growing on our oaks in the shape of Fistulina kepai- 
tea : Agaricus fusipes, to pickle, in clusters under 
them; Puff-balls, which some of our friends have not 



300 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

inaptly compared to sweetbreads for delicacy of their 
unassisted flavor ; Hydna, as good as oysters, which 

they somewhat resemble in taste ; Agar- 
^ , icus deliciosuSy reminding us of tender 

comprehensive . ^ . 

fungus lamb kidneys; the beautiful yellow 
Chantarelle, that kalon kaigothon of diet, 
growing by the bushel, and no basket but our own 
to pick up a few specimens on our way ; the sweet, 
nutty-flavored Boletus, in vain calling himself 'edults^ 
where there was none to believe him ; the dainty 
Orcella; the AgaricusheterophylluSy "which tastes like 
a crawfish when grilled; the Agaricus ruber^ and 
Agaricus virescens, to cook in any way and equally 
good in all  these are the most conspicuous of the 
trouvailles^ 

His remarks applied to Great Britain, and reflected 
a popular disdain of fungi, which presented a marked 

contrast to the appreciation of the 
A reliable mushroom of the Continent, where the 
crop fungus had become the much -sought 

bon7ie bouche of the epicure, and the wel- 
come reliance of the peasant poor, to whom it afforded 
a perfect substitute for the desideratum of animal 
food commonly denied them by their circumstances. 

This plea of Dr. Badham's is even more pointedly 
pertinent to the America of the present than it was 

for his own country at the time; for 

The fungus while, in Great Britain, the mycophagist 

specialist epicure was even then occasionally to 

be met with, in America to-day this par- 
ticular gastronomic specialist is locally conspicuous, or 
rather notorious, from his very rarity, being popularly 



RECIPES 301 

considered as a sort of dangerous crank, who should 
be conservatively muzzled by the authorities, for the 
safety of himself as well as the public. 

In the absence of any adequate popular guide to 
this great food resource, it may be hoped that this 

present work may afford not merely an 

Mycophagist occasional dainty entree to the menu 

missionaries of the luxurious epicure, but  a far 

more important consideration  a means 
of bringing the fungus within reach of the less-favored 
masses as a never-failing dependence for their daily 
food. 

Dr. Badham's further pertinent remarks are worth 
quoting, in this connection, with emphasis : " As 
soon as the reader is initiated in this class of dain- 
ties he will, I am persuaded, lose no time in making 
the discovery known to the poor of his neighbor- 
hood ; while in so doing he will render an important 
service to the country at large, by instructing the in- 
digent and ignorant in the choice of an ample, whole- 
some, and excellent article, which they may convert 
into money or consume at their own tables, when 
properly prepared, throughout the winter." 

Concerning the lavish plenitude of the fungus as 
a food resource, a passage from a letter of the late Dr. 
Curtis, of North Carolina, to the Rev. J. M. Berke- 
ley, of England, many years ago, is 

A sussestive most significant : " Of this latter qual- 

statement ity I had become so well convinced 

that, during our late war, I sometimes 
averred  and I doubt if there was much, if any, exag- 
geration in the assertion  that in some parts of 



302 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

the country I could maintain a regiment of soldiers 
five months in the year upon mushrooms alone." A 
statement which doubtless will appear extravagant to 
those who have been accustomed to consider the one 
common " mushroom " as the only esculent among 
the fungi. 

As already mentioned previously in my pages, the 
fungus affords a perfect substitute, chemically and 

gastronomically, for animal food. The 
Nutritious analysis of its substance is almost iden- 
properties tical with that of meat, being especially 

rich in nitrogenous elements, while its 
flavor and aroma and texture, as served for the table, 
occasionally so closely imitate that of flesh food as 
to be actually deceptive. Even in its raw state it 
would occasionally seem to suggest the same animal 
similarity. As an illustration, I recall the following 
striking instance of gastronomic discrimination in a 
carnivorous appetite, as exemplified in a full-grown 
pet hawk which I had tethered near my country 
studio. 

One day, returning from a toadstool hunt, she ob- 
served me approaching with a basketful of mush- 
rooms. They were mostly of the fleshy 
di ri ^ 11 Boleti species. Supposing that I was 
hawic bringing her food, she became very de- 
monstrative in her actions, eying me 
most eagerly, and uttering that peculiar low squeal 
which seemed to emanate from the region of her 
appetite. As she approached me, thinking to satisfy 
her that the basket contained nothing suitable for 
hawk -food, I tossed her one of the largest of the 



RECIPES 303 

mushrooms, which she almost caught in mid-air in 
her talons. Such was the strength of her clutch that 
the fungus was scattered in fragments upon the 
ground, when what was my surprise to observe the 
bird proceed from one fragment to another in a most 
ravenous manner, exhibiting all those tactics habitual 
to the hawk with live prey  the lowering and out- 
spreading of the wings and tail against the ground, 
the raising of the neck feathers, and the same de- 
fiant, defensive mien which she had so often shown 
on previous occasions when a mouse or a squirrel 
had been the object of her solicitude. Having eaten 
the first fungus, I threw her another, which she de- 
voured with the same eagerness, and another, and 
another, until she had taken five, and her crop was 
as large as a pint cup ; after which she betook her- 
self quietly to her roost on the rail near by, evidently 
under the supposition that she had broken her fast 
with a sumptuous meal of rabbit or squirrel flesh. 

The Agaricus ostreatus is known as the " vegetable 
oyster"  its flavor in a stew quite closely simulating 

the flavor of the bivalve ; another fun- 
Fish, flesh, gus as the " beefsteak mushroom "  not 
and fowl without good reason ; the Polyporus 

sulphureus distinctly suggests the flesh 
and flavor of chicken ; others, as we have seen, re- 
semble kidneys and sweetbread; while the Agaricus 
ulmarius of the elm would seem entitled to its popu- 
lar name of " fish-mushroom," from the following inci- 
dent related by Palmer: 

"I recently sent some elm -tree mushrooms to a 
family where the youngest member is but twenty-one 



304 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

months of age. At breakfast-time she noticed the 
strange dish, and her father gave her a small piece, 
* More fish ! more fish !' was the instant response." 

Indeed, the vegetarian may humor his humane 
whim, and still enjoy fish, flesh, and fowl at his table 

without a qualm of conscience in a 

A boon to menu which, in aroma, quality, and fla- 
the vegetarian vor, might well deceive his unconverted 

omnivorous brother, only at last to win 
his encomium to the glory of the multum in parvo 
fungus. The possibilities in this direction are sug- 
gested in my appended hints for a menu for the 
vegetarian. 

In my previous pages I have made occasional refer- 
ence to the more simple methods of preparation of 
certain species of fungi for the table, but have re- 
served extended reference to culinary treatment for 
the present chapter. 

For the benefit of those of my readers who may 
desire to " humour their delicate fancie " to the full, 

with the result of a more or less com- 
Fungi In plete disguise of the characteristic 

the kitchen mushroom flavor through the arts which 

are supposed to "assist nature," I ap- 
pend a selected list of favorite recipes for such al- 
leged appetizing sophistication of the mushroom- 
Many of them will be found equally applicable to 
other species than that for which they are nominally 
recommended, especially if such species should pos- 
sess the same general character as to consistency. 

The author confesses that he is not in thorough 
sympathy with the general trend of these ingeniously 



RECIPES 305 

contrived lures to dyspepsia, whose contemplation 
may well awaken a sympathetic appreciation of that 
antique philosophic epigram, " There are as many 
diseases as cooks "  the discriminating impeachment 
of Seneca regarding the ''chefa la moder 

But doubtless the author will be overwhelmingly 
overruled in his hypercriticisms, and will remain one 

of a select discriminating minority in 

De gustibus continued genuine enjoyment of his 
disputandum mushrooms^ while the majority of his 

proselytes to mycophagy will in vain 
endeavor to detect the mushroom flavor in the oblit- 
erating disguise concocted in the kitchen or insti- 
gated by the mischievous "receipt-book." 

Indeed, the prominence of the spice, clove, nut- 
meg, thyrne, tarragon, and pepper ingredient in most 
of these "favorite recipes," to say nothing of the 
champagne, onion, garlic, lemon-juice, cayenne, an- 
chovy, etc, with which the delicately flavored mush- 
rooms are so generally sophisticated in these culi- 
nary preparations, would seem to warrant our scep- 
ticism as to the value of the epicurean testimony 
as to the "superior flavor," of the various "Cham- 
pignons," " Chantarelles," etc., so confidently recom- 
mended. The juice of a lemon, or oil of lemon-peel, 
will absolutely annihilate the peculiar characteristic 
" fungus " flavor of the average mushroom. The true 
mushroom epicure, it would seem, should value his 
moMsseron not as an absorbent vehicle for the gas- 
tronomic conveyance of highly seasoned sauce or 
dressing, but for the unique individual flavor which 
differentiates the fungus from other kinds of food. 



306 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

But we are all allowed to differ in matters of taste, 
and each must decide for himself or herself what par- 
ticular disguise is most palatable. 

The recipes which follow are from various sources, 
most of them modifications based upon the earlier 
epicurean devices of Mrs. Hussey and Dr. Badham, the 
pioneers of English mycophagy, and of Roques, Per- 
soon, Paulet, Cordier, and other noted European au- 
thorities. I am indebted, also, to the works of M. C. 
Cook, Worthington Smith, W. Robinson, and J. A. 
Palmer* for occasional selections from their recom- 
mended recipes. 

RECIPES FOR MUSHROOM COOKING 

In all cases the mushroom should be fresh, clear 
and free from the insect indications mentioned on 
page 131. Some epicures recommend that the speci- 
mens be also washed in cold acidulated water and 
dried in a cloth ; for what reason is not clear, unless 
the mushrooms are sufficiently dirty to require such 
cleansing process. 

I Mushroom Soup 

" Take a good quantity of mushrooms, cut off the 
earthy ends and wash them ; stew them, with some 
butter, pepper, and salt, in a little good stock until 
tender ; take them out and chop them up until quite 
small ; prepare a good stock as for any other soup, 
and add it to the mushrooms and the liquor they have 
been stewed in. Boil all together and serve. If white 



RECIPES 307 

soup be desired, use the white button-mushrooms and 
a good veal stock, adding a spoonful of cream or a 
little milk, as the color may require."  W. Smith. 

Other mushrooms may be substituted for the ordi- 
nary Campestris above mentioned. A very good 
mock oyster soup may be prepared from the mush- 
rooms Hydnum and the Agaricus ostreatus. 

2 Pur6e of Mushrooms 

" To make a puree of mushrooms, select such as are 
of a globular shape, called ' button-mushrooms ;' wash 
them in cold water and wipe them dry ; chop them as 
fine as possible and press them in a cloth ; put them 
in a stewpan with a little butter and pepper; let 
them stand over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in lemon-juice and add jelly broth, ac- 
cording to the quantity of the mushrooms. Stew 
until reduced to the consistency of pea-soup, and 
serve with meat, fish, or poached egg."  Cooke. 

3 Mushroom Stew 

Put about two ounces of butter into a stewpan; 
when thoroughly melted add a teaspoonful of salt, 
and from a quarter to half the quantity of black pep- 
per, according to taste, and a small bit of mace or a 
pinch of powdered nutmeg. Having a pint of the 
mushrooms in readiness, put them in the pan, cover 
closely, and stew them till they are tender, which will 
probably require from twenty minutes to half an 
hour. The addition of flour stirred in cream or 
milk, by which the stew is thickened, is by some 
considered a desirable addition. This recipe is given 



308 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with special reference to the Campestris, but will be 
found suitable for other mushrooms of the same con- 
sistency. 

4 Broiled Mushrooms on Toast 

Remove the stems, and place the mushrooms in 
a double wire broiler over the coals, with the gill sides 
down, for about two minutes, or even less if the speci- 
mens are small. The broiler should then be turned, 
and the cooking should proceed for two minutes more; 
towards the end of that time the juicy gills should 
be sprinkled with salt and pepper, a small piece of 
butter being finally melted in each as they are served 
on the hot toast. By this simple method all the 
natural juices of the mushroom are retained and the 
true aroma and flavor is conserved. Bacon toasted 
over the mushrooms is considered by some to im- 
prove the flavor. 

5 Mushrooms a la Provencal 

Take mushrooms of good size, remove the stems 
and cut their tops in halves or quarters, which, with 
the chopped stems, should then be immersed in olive 
oil, spiced with salt, pepper, and a piece of garlic, for 
about two hours. They should then be put into a 
^stewpan with oil and cooked over a brisk fire, A 
variation of this method includes the addition of 
chopped meat and the yolks of two eggs, the whole 
being slightly browned in the oven before serving. 

6 Mushrooms a la Creme 

" Trim and rub half a pint of button-mushrooms ; 
dissolve two ounces of butter rolled in flour in a stew- 



RECIPES 309 

pan ; then put in the mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, 
a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful each of white 
pepper and powdered sugar; shake the pan around 
for ten minutes, then beat up the yolks of two eggs 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and add by degrees 
to the mushrooms. In two or three minutes you can 
serve them in the sauce."  Worthington Smith. 

7 Mushroom Ras^out 

" Put into a stewpan a little stock, a small quantity 
of vinegar, parsley and green onions chopped up, 
salt, and spices. When this is about to boil, the 
mushrooms being cleaned, put them in. When done 
remove them from the fire and thicken with yolks of 
eggs."  Worthington Smith. Another recommends 
that the stew should be poured upon toast, or upon 
crusts of bread previously fried in butter. 

8 Stewed riushrooms on Toast. 

 

Put a pint of mushrooms into a stewpan, with two 
ounces of butter rolled in flour, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a blade of 
powdered mace, and half a teaspoonful of grated lem- 
on ; stew until the butter is all absorbed, then serve 
on hot toast as soon as the mushrooms are tender. 

9 Champignon 

" Cut in small pieces and seasoned it makes an ex- 
cellent addition to stews, hashes, or fried meats ; but 
it should be added only a few minutes before serving, 
as the aroma is dissipated by over-cooking. It is the 
mushroom used in the French a la mode beef-shops 



3IO EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

in London."  Badham. They may be cooked in any 
of the methods employed for the ordinary mushroom 
already noted. 

lo Chantarelle Stew 

This mushroom, being of rather tough consistency, 
requires long and slow cooking. 

" Cut the mushrooms across and remove the stems ; 
put them into a closely covered saucepan with a little 
fresh butter, and sweat them until tender at the low- 
est possible temperature. A great heat always de- 
stroys the flavor."  Mrs. Hussey. 

II Hydnum Stew 

Roques, the French mycologist, says of the Hyd- 
num repandutn : " The general use of this fungus 
throughout France, Italy, and Germany leaves no 
room for doubt as to its good qualities." But very 
little has been said of its companion species, the //. 
caput'tneduscB^ described in the foregoing pages, and 
which is certainly greatly its superior in texture and 
flavor. Dr. Harkness considers it one of the most 
delicious morsels among the whole fungus tribe. 

Both species, containing naturally less moisture 
than most mushrooms, are easily dried. When fresh 
they should be soaked in water and cooked slowly 
at low temperature and frequently basted, the dried 
specimens being first soaked in tepid water until their 
original form and pulpy consistency are nearly re- 
gained. 

In a puree the Hydnum makes an appetizing dish, 
with a slight flavor of oysters. 



RECIPES 3 1 1 

Roques recommends the following recipe for a 
stew: "Cut the mushrooms into pieces and let them 
steep in warm water for twenty minutes. Then al- 
low them to simmer for an hour in a pan with butter, 
pepper, salt, and parsley, with the addition of beef or 
other gravy." 

Mrs. Hussey recommends stewing in brown or 
white sauce ; in the latter case it will closely suggest 
" oyster sauce." 

Another mushroom  the Lactarius deliciosus  
stewed in a similar manner closely suggests the 
flavor of lambs' kidneys. 

12 Roast Mushrooms 

Mr. Palmer recommends the following : ** Cut the 
larger specimens into fine pieces and place them in a 
small dish, with salt, butter, and pepper to taste ; put 
in about two tablespoonfuls of water, then fill the dish 
with the half-open specimens and the buttons ; cover 
tightly and place in the oven, which must not be 
overheated, for about ten minutes. The juice of the 
larger mushrooms will keep them moist, and, if fresh, 
yield a most abundant gravy." 

13 Baked Russula 

See that the mushrooms are free from dirt and grit 
on tops and stems, or rinse in cold water, afterwards 
wiping them dry and shaking ofif the water from the 
gills; make a mince of the stems, bread-crumbs, 
sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little butter or oil ; 
pile this upon the gills; place the mushrooms in a 
shallow dish in a hot oven and baste them frequently 



312 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

with the melted butter or oil. In about fifteen minutes 
they will be ready to serve. 

The Oyster Mushroom or its congener, the Agar- 
icus ulmarius^ might both be treated by this method, 
the oyster or fish -like flavor of these species thus 
affording a distinct second course for our menu. 
Either of these Pleurotus species may also be treated 
so as to closely suggest an escalop of oyster or fish. 

14 Baked Procerus 

Remove the stems; do not rinse the mushrooms 
unless they are soiled, and this species is usually con- 
spicuously clean ; put some slices of toast in a well- 
buttered pie-dish, and, with a little melted butter or 
cream poured over them, lay in the mushrooms; 
sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of 
minced parsley which has previously been rubbed 
with onion or garlic; cover the dish with a plate 
and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes and serve 
in the dish. The aroma is thus conserved, and, upon 
being released at the table, will prove a most savory 
appetizer. 

15 Cottagers* Procerus Pie 

The following appetizing recipe is recommended 
by Robinson : " Cut fresh Agarics in small pieces, 
cover the bottom of a pie-dish with small, thin slices 
of bacon, and place the mushroom fragments upon 
them, with the addition of salt and pepper; upon 
this place a layer of mashed potatoes, following again 
with other similar layers of bacon, mushrooms, and 
potatoes, until the dish is filled, the last layer of 



RECIPES 313 

potato answering for a crust; bake in the oven for 
half an hour, and brown before a brisk fire." 

Doubtless many other species of mushroom would 
lend themselves equally well to this particular treat- 
ment 

16 Baked Qambosus 

" Place some fresh -made toast, nicely divided, on a 
dish, and put the Agarics upon it ; pepper, salt, and 
put a small piece of butter on each; then pour on 
each one a tablespoonful of milk or cream, and add a 
single clove to the whole dish; place a bell-glass or 
inverted basin over the whole ; bake twenty minutes, 
and serve up without removing the glass until it comes 
to the table, so as to preserve the heat and aroma, 
which, on lifting the cover, will be diffused through 
the room."  Cooke, "A great quantity of gravy 
comes out of it, mingled, in the case of a good 
specimen, with osmazome, which tastes very much 
like the similar brown exudation on the surface of a 
roast leg of mutton."  Robinsmt. 

17 Fried Mushrooms on Toast 

Place a pint of mushrooms in a pan, with a piece 
of butter about the size of an egg; sprinkle in a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper; 
when the butter is nearly absorbed, thicken with 
fresh butter and flour and pour upon hot toast, which 
should be served hot. 

18 riushrooms with Bacon 

Fry a few rashers of nice streaky bacon in the 
pan in the usual manner; when nearly done add a 



314 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

dozen or so of mushrooms, and fry them slowly until 
they are cooked. In this process they will absorb 
all the fat of the bacon, and, with the addition of a 
little salt and pepper, will form a most appetizing 
breakfast relish. 

19 Mushrooms en Caisse 

The following is recommended as a dainty by 

Worthington Smith : " Peel the mushrooms lightly 
and cut them into pieces ; put them into cases of 
buttered paper, with a bit of butter, parsley, green 
onions, and shallots chopped up; salt and pepper; 
dress them on a gridiron over a gentle fire and serve 
in the cases." The cases might be made of pastry. 

20 Hungarian Soup of Boletl 

" Dry the Boleti in the oven ; soak the mushrooms 

in tepid water, thickening with toasted bread till the 

whole be of the consistency of a puree ; then rub 

through a sieve, throw in some stewed boleti, boil 

together, and serve with the usual condiments."  

Paulet. 

21 Boletus Fritters 

Persoon recommends this method of treatment of 
the Boletus as very appetizing: The fritters may be 
prepared in the method ordinarily adopted, the slices 
of the mushroom being dipped in batter and brown- 
ed either in the frying-pan or in the hot fat, after the , 
manner of the doughnut. 

22 Beefstealc flush room 

This species is claimed to resemble meat in flavor 



RECIPES 315 

more than any other fungus. The gravy, in quality 
and color, would certainly deceive a most discrimi- 
nating palate. Like many of the Polyporei, it is com- 
paratively slow in maturing, occasionally, it is said, 
requiring two weeks ere it reaches its prime, when ib 
may acquire a large size. 

It should be gathered before its maturity to insure 
tenderness, though the older, tougher individuals, cut 
in pieces and cooked separately, will yield a quantity 
of rich red gravy, to be added to the dish of more 
tender specimens. " If it is not beef itself," says Mrs. 
Hussey, " it is sauce for it." " If sliced and grilled it 
would pass for a good beefsteak," says Cooke, with 
truth. Mrs. Hussey recommends that it should be 
sliced and macerated in salt, the deep- red liquor 
which exudes should be put hot into a dish with a 
little lemon-juice and minced shallots, and a broiled 
steak deposited in it. It may also be variously 
stewed or fricasseed with excellent results, and af- 
fords a delicious soup with savor closely suggesting 
beef broth or consomme clair. A "beef -steak" pie 
made on the foregoing recipe prescribed for the 
Procerus would doubtless prove a most appetizing 

entree. 

23 The Oyster Mushroom 

" It may be cooked in any way that an oyster is, 
and is equally good in all," says a distinguished con- 
noisseur  in soups, stewed, broiled, curried, baked, 
in the form of an escalop, patties, or vol-au-vent, or 
fried with butter in the form of fritters. In all cases 
where the fungus itself is to be eaten, the specimens 
should be young and tender, the older individuals, 
17 



3!6 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

if free from insects, might be used for soups. See 
Recipe 13. 

24 Polyporus Stew 

The beautiful sulphur-colored Polyporus described 
in my previous pages when stewed closely suggests 
the tender white meat of chicken or veal, and might 
lend itself to various deceptive dishes, as, for instance, 
soups, croquettes, fricassees, or patties. 

Only the tender young plant should be employed, 
and a little experience will suggest various appetizing 
methods of treatment. 

25 Ragout of Morels or Helvella 

The following is an old-time recipe of Persoon : 
" Pick and clean your fungi and cut them in two ; 
wash and dry them well by wiping; then put them in 
a stewpan with butter, or a piece of ham or bacon ; 
place them over a brisk fire, and when the butter is 
melted squeeze in a little lemon-juice, give a few turns, 
and then add salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; 
cook slowly for an hour, pouring on at intervals small 
quantities of beef gravy or jelly broth to prevent burn- 
ing; when done, thicken with yolks of eggs." The 
lemon-juice is omitted by many, who consider it a pos- 
itively unpalatable as well as unwholesome ingredient. 

26 Stuffed Morels 

Dr. Badham's work contains the following recipes 
from Persoon, whicft, from the peculiar construction 
of the fungus, affords a contrast to ordinary methods: 
" Choose the freshest and whitest Morels ; open the 



RECIPES 317 

stalk at the bottom ; wash and wipe them well ; fill 
with veal stuffing, anchovy, or any rich farce you 
choose, securing the ends and dressing between 
slices of bacon. Serve with a sauce." 

27 Morelles a la Italienne 

Here is another skilful compound from the same 
source : " Having washed and dried the mushrooms, 
divide them across; put them on the fire with some 
parsley, scallion, chervil, burnet, tarragon, cives, a 
little salt, and two spoonfuls of fine oil; stew until 
the juice runs out, then thicken with a little flour. ^ 

Serve with bread-crumbs and a squeeze of lemon." 

28 Clavaria Stew 

Badham gives the following recipe for the Clavaria, 
or coral fungus: "After sousing in tepid water and 
wiping perfectly clean, the fungus should be 'sweat- 
ed ' over a slow fire, afterwards to be strained and the 
liquor thrown away ; stew for an hour ; add salt, pep- 
per, cloves, and parsley to taste, masking with plain 
stock and dredging occasionally with flour. Thicken 
with yolks of eggs and cream." 

29 Pried Clavaria 

The simple process of browning in butter or oil in 
the frying-pan, with the addition of pepper and salt, 
and serving hot on buttered toast or with fried eggs, 
will be found a most palatable method of treating 
this fungus. For those who are willing to sacrifice 
the characteristic fungus flavor to a savor more pro- 
nounced, the Clavaria is also said to be delicious 



3l8 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

when fried with onions or with curry in the usual 

method. 

30 Puff-ball 

Fritters, Omelettes, Sweetbreads, and Souffle 

As already described, the Puff-balls in their white- 
pulp condition are esculent and afford a delicate rel- 
ish. The species Giganteus sometimes attains a 
diameter of nearly two feet, and where such a speci- 
men or even much smaller ones are situated at an 
easily available distance, we may profit by the hint 
of Vitadini, the Italian mycologist : " Cut off a slice 
at a time, cutting it horizontally, and using great care 
not to disturb its growth, to prevent decay, and thus 
one may have a fritter every day for a week." Dr. 
Curtis calls this species the "Southdown of mush- 
rooms." His opinion of its merits as food will be 
shared by others who give it a trial : " It has a deli- 
cacy of flavor that makes it superior to any omelette 
I have ever eaten. It seems, furthermore, to be so 
digestible as to adapt itself to the most delicate stom- 
ach." Mrs. Hussey, the pioneer English authority, 
recommends the following recipe : " First remove the 
outer skin; cut in slices half an inch thick; have 
ready some chopped herbs, pepper, and salt ; dip the 
slices in the yolk of egg, and sprinkle the herbs upon 
them ; fry in fresh butter and eat immediately." 

The extreme tenderness and delicacy of the Puff- 
ball thus cooked resembles a souffle, and suggests 
many possibilities of appetizing variations and com- 
binations, as, for example, with jelly, in the form of 
an entremet or dessert. By many the flavor of the 
Puff-ball has been compared to "sweetbread," and 



RECIPES 319 

doubtless so cooked and served would afford an 
agreeable variation in the menu. Indeed, it may be 
prepared in a variety of ways, as suggested for other 
species, but from its peculiar consistency is particu- 
larly adapted to frying in the pan. With chopped 
ham or thinly sliced smoked beef it might furnish a 
good substitute for the ham-omelette or frizzled beef. 
Another addition to our entremets might be availed 
of in the "jelly mushroom," Hydnum, or Tremelodon 
gelatinosum, which is not described in this volume. 
It is eaten raw, either plain or with milk and sugar, 
and is said to be of most delicate flavor. 

31 riushroom Salad 

According to Cooke, the Beefsteak mushroom 
before mentioned is employed as an entremet in Vien- 
na, the fresh fungus being cut in thin slices and eat- 
en as a salad. The fresh, crisp young Russula mush- 
rooms thus served also furnish a very appetizing 
relish, with the usual varieties of dressing as in the 
various sauces, mayonnaise, French dressing, etc. 
The Polyporus sulphureus having been boiled and 
allowed to cool might furnish a deceptive " chicken " 
salad. Doubtless other species of mushrooms  Cla- 
varia, for example  would lend themselves acceptably 
to this method of serving. Cordier recommends this 
latter species as " appetizing even when raw." 

32 Pickled flushrooms 

Select the mushrooms in the round-button condi- 
tion and before expansion; immerse them in cold 
water for a few moments, then drain them; cut off the 



320 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

Stalks, and gently rub ofiF the outer skin with a moist 
flannel dipped in salt; boil the vinegar, adding to 
each quart two ounces of salt, half a nutmeg grated, 
a dram of mace, and an ounce of white pepper-corns ; 
put the mushrooms into the vinegar for ten minutes 
over the fire; then pour the whole into small jars, 
taking care that the spices are equally divided ; let 
them stand a day, then cover them. 



33 flushroom Catsup 

Large quantities of mushrooms of various species 
are annually consumed in Europe in the manufacture 
of catsup. Following is one of the many favorite 
foreign recipes: 

Place the Agarics, of as large a size as you can 
procure, layer by layer in a deep pan ; sprinkle each 
layer with a little salt; the next day stir them well 
several times, so as to mash and extract their juice; on 
the third day strain off the liquor, measure and boil 
for ten minutes, and then to every pint of liquor add 
half an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce 
of bruised ginger-root, a blade of mace, a clove or two, 
and a teaspoonful of mustard-seed; boil again for 
half an hour, put in two or three bay-leaves, and set 
aside until quite cold ; pass through a strainer, and 
bottle; cork well and dip the ends of the bottle in 
melted resin or beeswax; a very little Chili vinegar 
is an improvement, and some add a glass of port- 
wine or of ale to every bottle. Care should be taken 
that the spice is not so abundant as to overpower 
the true flavor of the mushrooms. 



RECIPES 321 

34 Dried Mushrooms 

It will often happen in a normal fungus season that 
the production will exceed the possibility of consump- 
tion, and thousands of pounds of delicious mushrooms 
will thus be left to decay in their haunts. 

The process of drying mushrooms for winter use is 
in most extensive practice by the peasantry of Europe 
and Britain, who thus find an all- the -year- round de- 
pendence upon mushroom diet. 

With most species this process of desiccation is so 
simple that it is recommended, in the confident belief 
that, once tried, the winter mushroom will hereafter af- 
ford a frequent relish upon many a board and will well 
repay the slight trouble in their summer preparation. 

In most of the Agarics  notably the Campestris, 
Procerus, Champignon, Russula, Chantarelle  simply 
threading on strings and hanging in the sun and 
wind, or festooned above the kitchen range, will be 
sufficient to reduce them to complete dryness in a 
few hours. Indeed, some of these, such as the Pro- 
cerus and Champignon, dry spontaneously in their 
haunts, and may be thus gathered. 

In the instances of more fleshy fungi, such as the 
Boleti, Polyporei, and Coprinus, more rapid desicca- 
tion is necessary. By exposing them in the sun on 
a tin roof or absorbent paper the moisture is rapidly 
evaporated. They might also be suspended above 
the kitchen range in a wire basket and thus quickly 
dried. In Boleti the drying is facilitated by the 
removal of the whole pore layer, which is easily sep- 
arated from the cap. 



322 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

The Clavaria and Morel are very simply dried, even 
in ordinary house temperature. Strung upon threads 
and suspended in the sun or near the fire they would 
very quickly be reduced to absolute dryness. 

Mushrooms thus treated seem to retain their aro- 
ma; in Procerus, Clavaria, Morel, Helvella, and " Fairy- 
ring " being intensified above that of their moist con- 
dition and most appetizing. 

The desiccated specimens should be kept in a dry 
place, with good circulation of air, or enclosed in her- 
metically sealed tin boxes ; in the latter case being 
occasionally examined to insure against mould by 
possible absorption of moisture. 

When desired for use they are simply soaked in 
tepid water, which, by gradual absorption, causes the 
specimens occasionally to assume almost their orig- 
inal dimensions and juicy character, when they should 
be treated as recommended for the fresh mushrooms. 



For the benefit of the vegetarian, or the curiously 
or experimentally inclined, I append a few sugges- 
tions apropos of a meftu a la mode, in which the fun- 
gus might be employed with good effect as a rival to 
the familiar established prandial delights. Each se- 
lection is numbered with reference to its particular 
descriptive or suggestive paragraph in the preceding 
pages of the chapter. 

A feast based upon these recommendations, re- 
enforced with appropriate adjuncts  the "mother"- 
born vinegar, the fungus -leavened loaf, the fungus- 
foaming beaker  might cumulatively prove a per- 
suasive plea for the creed of vegetarianism. 




X30GGeK300GOOGCC300000GOOOOOOOOOC>ZOOOOOOOOOOOG00063000GOOOO>j 



m 




enu 



 




Potages 

Consomme de boeuf clair, aa 
Potage a la pur6e d'huitres, i, ix, 13 
Potage a la puree de boeuf, as 
Potage a la puree de volaille, u 

C5telettes de poisson  Sauce aux 

champignons, 13 
Escalope de poisson, 13 

Croquettes de ris de veau, 24 
Bouchees au poulet, a4 

tteleote 

Filet de boeuf aux champignons, aa, a3 

(Entrees 

Omelette aux jamboii, 30 
Rognons d'agneau, u 
Pate de biftecks, 22 
Beignettes d'huitres, 13, 23 
Huitres en curry, 23 
Petits vols-au-vent d'huitres ou bou- 
chees d'huitres, 13, n 
Fricassee de poulet, 24 

(Sntretnet0 

Salad de Russula au mayonnaise, 3^ 
Salad de Fistulina, 31 
Salad de Clavaria, 31 
Salad de volaille, 31 

{Oeesert 

Omelette souffle au gelee, 30 
Pouding souffle, 30 
Gelee de Hydnum, 30 



GOCCC?r<r-OL?c*zc!~<>->j*A*_<i*i* 



~*r-oeiKGC3GOOOGOOGOOOGOGGG i 



cJd Ibliogxapky 



AMERICAN 

1. Geological and Natural History Survey of North Carolina, 
Part III. Botany. Containing a catalogue of the indigenous and 
naturalized plants of the State. By Rev. M. A. Curtis, D.D., etc. 
Raleigh, 1867. (Out of print.) 

2. Mushrooms of America. Edible and Poisonous. Edited by 
Julius A. Palmer, Jr. Numerous colored plates. Published by 
L. Prang & Co., Boston, 1885. 

3. About Mushrooms, A Guide to the Study of Esculent and 
Poisonous Fungi. A collection of various articles upon the sub* 
ject. By Julius A. Palmer. Lee & Shepard, Boston, 1894. 

4. Boleti of the United States, A catalogue containing full de- 
scriptions of one hundred and eight species. (No illustrations.) 
By Professor Charles H. Peck, State Botanist, State Hall, Albany, 
N. Y. Annual Report of the State Botanist issued by the Board 
of Regents, Albany University. 

Professor Peck has also published a series of papers on '^ Edi- 
ble Mushrooms " in The Country Gentleman^ of Albany, N. Y. A 
new work from him on this subject is in preparation^ 

5. Fcuific Coast Fungi, By Dr. H. W. Harkness and Justin P. 
Moore. 1880. A catalogue. 

6. The Deadly and Minor Poisons of Mushrooms. By Charles 
Mcllvaine. Reprint from the Therapeutic Gazette, George S. 
Davis, Detroit, Mich. Quoted in present volume. Captain Mc- 
llvaine is also the author of several popular articles on the subject 
of esculent mushrooms which have appeared in various journals 
and magazines. 

7. Fungi Caroliniani Exsiccati, Five Fasciculi, one hundred 
specimens in each. By H. W. Ravenel, of Aiken, S. C. John 
Russell, Charleston. 

8. Bulletins of United States Department of Agriculture, Wash- 
ington, D, C. By Thomas M. Taylor, Chief of the Division of 
Microscopy. Washington, D. C, 1893-94. Five issues, with many 
colored plates of various specimens, both edible and poisonous ; 
also full directions for cultivation of the common mushroom. 



326 EDIBLE MUSHROOMS 

9. Notes for Mushroom Eaters, By W. G. Farlow. Pamphlet. 
Illustrated. Garden & Forest Publishing Co., New Yoric 

ENGLISH 

10. Illustrations of British Mycology, (Hand-painted.) By Mrs. 
T. J. Hussey. Reeve Brothers, London, 1847. ^^ admirable 
work, the pioneer treatise in Great Britain ; rare ; reference copies 
only in prominent libraries. 

11. Esculent Funguses of England, By Rev. Dr. C. D. Badham. 
With twenty colored plates. 8vo. L. Reeve & Co., London. 1870- 

\2, A Plain and Easy Account of the British Fungi; with De- 
scriptions of the Esculent and Poisonous Species, Details of the 
Principles of Scientific Classification, and a Tabular Arrangement 
of Orders and Genera. By M. C. Cooke, M.A., LL.D. With 
twenty-four colored plates. R. Hardwick, Piccadilly, London, 
187 1. An excellent, inexpensive, and popular hand-book. 

13. Outlines of British Fungology, Containing Characters of 
above a Thousand Species of Fungi, and a Complete List of all 
that have been described as Natives of the British Isles. By 
Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. Lovell Reeve, Henrietta 
Street, Covent Garden, London, i860. Beautifully illustrated 
with twenty- four lithographic hand -colored plates by W. Fitch, 
each plate presenting several species, and including a number of 
the esculent. 

14. Mushrooms and Toadstools : How to Distinguish Easily the 
Differences between Edible and Poisonous Fungi. With two 
large sheets containing figures of twenty-nine edible and thirty- 
one poisonous species drawn the natural size, and colored from 
living specimens. By Worthington T. Smith, F.L.S. 2d edition, 
R. Hardwick, 192 Piccadilly, London, 1875. 

15. ^ Selection of the Eatable Funguses of Great Britain, Edited 
by Robert Hogg, LL.D., and Geo. W. Johnson, F.R.H.S. Nu- 
merous excellent hand-colored plates. 

16. Fungi: Their Nature and Uses, By M. C. Cooke, M.A., 
LL.D.; edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F.L.S. In 
" International Scientific Series." D. Appleton & Co., N. Y. 
A very full and condensed epitome of the science of fungology. 

17. Hand-book of British Fungi, By M. C. Cooke. 2 vols. 
Macmillan & Co., London, 187 1. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 327 

18. Illustrations of British Fungi, Atlas to accompany above. 
By M. C. Cooke. Williams & Norgate, London, 1889. 

19. Scottish Cryptogamic Flora, 6 vols. By R. R. Greville, 1823. 

20. Fungi-hunters' Guide, By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

21. Elementary Text-book, By William D. Hay. Swan Sonnen- 
schein, Lowrey & Co., London, 1887. 

22. British Fungi, By John Stevenson. William Blackwood & 
Sons. London, 1886. 

23. Mushroom Culture, By W. Robinson. F. Warne & Co., 
London, 1870. Containing full directions for the cultivation of 
mushrooms ; also an extended chapter upon common wild species. 
Illustrated with wood-cuts, numerous recipes, etc. 

FRENCH 

24. Plantes Usuelles, Par Joseph Roches. Vol. IV., containing 
the Edible and Poisonous Fungi : also his Histoire des Cham- 
pignons Comestibles et T^n^-neux. Elegantly illustrated. Paris, 
1838. 

25. Les Champignons: Histoire, Description, Culture, Usages 
des Espfeces Comestibles, V^n^neuses, Suspectes, etc. Par F. S. 
Cordier. With sixty chromo - lithographs. 4th edition. Paris, 
1876. 

26. Histoire Naturelle des Champignons, By G. Sicard. C. H. 
Delagrave, Paris, 1883. Numerous colored plates. Rare. Copy 
in Astor Library, N. Y. 

27. Botanique Cryptogamique^ ou Histoire des Families Naturelles 
des Flantes Inferieures. Par J. Payer, Docteur fes Sciences, etc. 
With 1105 engravings on wood. Victor Masson, Paris, 1850. 

28. Des Champignons, (Orfila Prize Essay.) By Emile Boudier. 
J. B. Ballifere, Paris, 1866. 

29. Champignons, By L. M. Gautier. J. B. Balli^re et Fils. 
Paris, 1884. 

30. Figures Peintes de Champignons, By Captain L. Lucand. 
Friedlander & Son, Berlin, 1882. (Reference copy at Massachu- 
setts Horticultural Society.) 

31. Les Champignons, By J. Moyen. J. Rothschild, Paris, 1889. 

32. Nouvelle Flore, By J. Constantin and Leon Dufour. Paul 
Dupont, Paris, 1891. 



ACKKOWLEDCMENTS, 4O. 

Agaricacta, order of the, 77. 
Agariiini,';s-ijZ: botanical characters 

of. 79- 
Agttrics, edible. 80-J7S ; Curtis's list 

Agaii(ui, 43. 441 vegetation of, 44-47, 
85-Q3, 107 ; botanicsl characters of, 
77-79. 3S3. 

Agaricus, species of :  Amanita, see 
Amanita ;  arvensis, 65, 91 ; epicu- 
rean opinions of, 94 ;  campeslris, 
9, 13, 31. 34, 80-95, 307, 308, 331 ; 
the " Mushroom," i6-33 ; variations 
in, 69-93; spore-print of, 383;  
candicans, 86 ;  tuiamui, 147 ;  
fusipts, 399 ;  gaaiiffius, 95-IOI ; to 
cook, 313:  heUrophylla, see Rus- 
sula ;  Mamtmiui ercades, ioi-lo8; 
 metlim, 10,38;  orcilta, 300;  oi- 
treatus. ID, 35, 141-I48, 303, 307 ;  
praUmis, 91 -.prBicrus^ 10, 86, 87. 
II3-'I9. 3"i -ilf.  rui^r, 300; 
uimarius. 10, 36, 37. 148-154. 303. 



-vaporarius, 91;  villatitus.gl ; 
t, 300. See, also, Russula, 
Coprinus, Lactsrius.Chantarelle, and 
Marasmius. 
Agrippina, victim of Amanita, 59. 
^HiaHjVa.eenusof. readily identified, 3, 
33. 74. 273- 

 Botanical chacactera of, 39. 33, 41- 
51.79. 73- 

 The cup or volva in, ag, 33, 47, 48. 
57. 74. 273. 

 V^etation and development of. 44. 
45. 74 : the veil or shroud of, 48. 

 Fatalities from eating, 3, 15, 39. 6a ; 
adangerousenemy, 15, 33, 39 ; "sil- 
ver test " upon, 36 ; eflect of salt and 
heat upon, 39, 

 Poison of, 48. 60 : chemical nature 
of poison of. 48. 61 ; Czar Alexis, 53; 
Agrippina, 59 ; intoxication from. 59. 
60 ; dipsomaniacs, 59, 60 ; isolation 
of poison of.6l ; absorption of poison 
of, by contact and odor. 30, 69 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of poison of. 



330 



INDEX 



38, 39 ; antidote for poison of, 61-68 ; 
report of a case of poisoning by, 63- 
66 ; poison of, extracted by vinegar, 

71. 
Amanita^ Poisonous species of :  ver- 

nus, 17, 25, 51 ;  muscarius, 51, 73 ; 

spore-print of, 289, 2f^i\phalloides^ 

51. 74. 
 Edible species of, 73 ; Ccesarea^ 

rubescenSf strohiliformis^ 9, 12, 48. 

Amanitine, 60 ; antidote, 62. 

Alexis, Czar, -victim of Amanita, 52. 

America and Europe, comparative ap- 
preciation of fungi in, 299. 

American and European fungi identi- 
cal, 12. 

American mycophagists, 8, 9, 15. 

Antidotes for mushroom poisoning, 62, 
67. 68. 

Ants attacked by fungi, 295. 

Asci in fungi, 256. 

Ascomycetts^ 256. 

Asiatic Russia, Amanita dipsomaniacs 
of, 59. 

Bacterium bacillus, 7, 8. 

Badham, Dr. C. D., quoted, xii., 12, 

13, 40, 177, 189. 237. 246, 299, 301, 

306, 310, 316. Bibliography, No. 

II, 326. 
Baked mushrooms, 311-313. 
Basket for gathering mushrooms, 36. 
"" Beefsteak " mushroom, 11, 27, 213- 

217, 303 ; to cook, 314 ; as salad, 

319- 
Bees and wasps, 36. 

Beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Belladonna. See Atropine. 

Berkeley, Rev. M. J., variations in 
Campestris, 40, 91 ; quoted, 107, 237, 
246, 294, 301. Bibliography, Nos. 
13 and 16, 326. 

Bibliography  American, 325 ; Eng- 
lish, 326 ; French, 327. 

Bitter Boletus, 208. 

Blights, 7. 



Blue mould, 78. 

Blue-stain Boleti, 196. 

Boleti, 182-213 ; botanical characters 
of, 1 81-184, 285 ; hawk fed upon. 
302 ; fritters of, 314 ; soup of, 314 : 
to dry, 321. 

Boletus, characters of, 182 ; various 
edible, 10, 26, 182-213 J spore-prim 
of, 285. 

Boktus,  alveolatus, 183, 20i, 208 ;  
castaneus, 10 ;  chrysenteron, 195 
201;  collinittis, 10;  cyanescens , 
201, 207 ; cone-like, 202 ;  rduiis, 
10, 13, 16, 18, 189, 190, 300 ; artificial 
cultivation of, 86 ; crimson, 213 ; 
 eUgans, 10 \felUus, 207, 208-2 1 3 ; 
 Jlavidus, 10 ;  gmnulatus, 10 ;  
luteus, 10 ;  satanas, 207, 208 ;  
scaber, 10, 191-195 ;  subtomentosus, 
10, 26, 183, 195 ; blue stain of, 196, 
201, 207 ;  strobilomyces, 202-207 ; 
spore-print of, 281 ;  versipellis, 10. 

Botanical discrimination, 31, 32. 

 discrimination of Amanita. See 
Amanita. 

Boudier, Emile. Bibliography, No. 28, 

327. 
Bovista nigrescenSy 10. 

 plumbea, lO. 
Broiled mushrooms, 308. 
Bubbola maggiore. See Pasture Mush- 
room. 
Bulbosine, 60. 

Campestris. See Agaricus. 
Cantharellus,  cibarius, 10, 27, 172 

178, 300;  aurantiacus, 178; to 

cook, 310; drying of, 321. 
Caterpillar fungi, 295. 
Catsup, Mushroom, 320. 
Cfiampignon ** Fairy -Ring," 27, 87, 

95; to cook, 309 ; dried, 321. 

 Poisonous, 108, 113. 
Chantarelle. See Cantharellus. 
** Chef i la mode," the, 305. 
Chemical analysis of fungi, 14, 302. 



INDEX 



331 



Chestnut-burr fungus, 294. 
Chestnut tongue. See Fistulina. 
Chicken flavor in mushrooms, 303, 316. 
Chinese caterpillar fungus, 296. 
Cicada fungus, 295. 
Classification of fungi, 77, 78. 
Claudius, Emperor, poisoned, 59. 
Clavarieiy 231, 247-256. 
Clavaria^ Various, 10, 11 ;  amethys' 

tina^ fastigiata^ Jlava^ rugosa^ siricta, 

umbrina, 255 ;  botrytis, 256 \for- 

mosa, 247 ; to cook, 317 ; used as 

salad, 319 ; to dry, 322. 
Club fungi. See Clavaria. 
Cogomeios, See Pasture Mushroom. 
Colored plates of the book, 39. 
Coniomycetes ^ 78. 
Consomm^ from mushrooms, 315. 
Cooke, Rev. Dr. M. C. 40, 59, 214, 

237. 273, 295, 306, 307. 313. 315. 

Bibliography, Nos. 12, 16, 17, 326 ; 

No. 18, 327. 
Cooking fungi, 72, 306-322. 
Coprinus, 87; to dry, 321 ;  atramen- 

tarius, 1 1, 27, 28, 161, 163 ;  coma- 

tus, II, 87, 154-160. 
Coral fungi. See Clavaria. 
Cordier, F. S., 246, 248, 306, 319. 

Bibliography, No. 25, 327. 
Correspondents, 2-6. 
Cortinarius castaneus^ cinnamomeus, 

violaceus^ 1 1. 
Cosmopolitan fungi, 12. 
CoulemelU. See Pasture Mushroom. 
Crimson Boletus, 213. 
Cryptogamia^ the, 7. 
Crystals on drying fungi, 227. 
Culinary ** treatment" of fungi, 72, 

214, 304. 
Cultivation of mushrooms, 85, 86. Bib- 
liography, No. 8, 325 ; No. 23, 327. 
**Cup," the, in Amanita, 29, 33, 47, 

48, 57. 74, 273. 
Currie, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 
Curtis, Rev. M. A., pioneer American 

mycophagist, 9, 32, 40. 
18 



Curtis's, Rev. M. A. , list of edible mush- 
rooms, 9-12; quoted, 219, 245, 301, 
318. Bibliography, No. i, 325. 

Cystidium^ the, 77, 256. 

Deadly mushrooms and toadstools, 

2, 3 43-74. 
Deaths by fungi, 43, 61. 

Decaying fungi, 6, 25, 30, 278. 

Delagrave, C. H. Bibliography, No. 

26, 327. 

Desiccation of fungi, 107, 119, 246, 262, 
321. 

Diagnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 38, 63-68. 

Doe-skin mushroom. See Uydnum 
repandum. 

Dried fungi. See Desiccation of fungi. 

Dufour, J. Constant! n and Leon. Bib- 
liography, No. 32, 327. 

Dust-like fungi, 78. 

Economic fungology, 7, 13, 14. 

Edible Amanitas, 9, 12, 73. 

Edible mushrooms, number of species, 
2, 7, 32, 60; list of, by Curtis, 9-12: 
popular tests for identification, 22, 
23; become poisonous from contact 
with Amanita, 70. 

Elm mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 148-154, 
303, 312. 

Elvellacei^ 231. See Helvella. 

Emetic mushroom. See Russula. 

Epicurean perversity, 72. 

European and American fungi iden- 
tical, 12. 

European mycologists, 14, 326, 327. 

Fairy-ring mushroom, 95, 101-108; 
cause of "ring," 102, 107 ; recipes for 
cooking, 107, 108; false or poison- 
ous, 108, 113. 

False Champignon, 108. 

Farlow, W. G. Bibliography, No. 9, 
326. 

' Fish mushroom," 154, 303, 312. 



332 



INDEX 



Fistulina hepatica, ii, 26, 27, 213, 
299, 303; to cook, 314; as salad, 

319. 
Fly, Fungus attacking, 295. 

Fly-poison, Amanita, 27, 51, 52, 72. 
See Amanita muscarius. 

Food, Fungi as, 8, 13-15. 35. 221. 245, 
299-323. 

"Foxfire," 227. 

France, Fungus-eaters of, 14. 

Fried mushrooms, 313-318. 

Fries, Fungologist, 268. 

Fritters of fungi, 314, 318. 

Fungi, See, also. Toadstools, Mush- 
rooms, and Moulds. 

 by mail, 4, 5. 

 Chemical constituents of, 14, 302. 

 Classification of, 77, 78. 

 Common tests for " Edible," and 
their reputation, 17-21, 24-29. 

 Coral. See Clavaria. 

 Crystals on, 227. 

 Cultivation of, 85, 88. Bibliog- 
raphy, No. 8. 325 ; No. 23, 327. 

 Desiccation of, 119, 246, 262, 301, 
310, 321. 

 Economic, 7, 13. 

 Edible. See Agaricus Boletus, 
Clavarei, Fistulina, Helvella, Morel, 
Mushroom, and PufT-balls. 

 Fastidiousness in vegetation, 86-88, 

294. 

 Gill-bearing (Agarics), 78, 178. 

 Hawk fed upon, 302. 

 Hygrometric properties of, 119. 

 Insects infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36- 

38. 135- 

 List of works on, 325. 

 Medical, 277. 

 Menu for fungus repast, 323. 

 Miscellaneous, 231-274. 

 Mycelium, or spawn, of, 44, 45, 77, 
85, 88, 92, 107. 

 Number of species of, 6. 30, 60. 

 on caterpillars and chrysalids, 295. 

 on chestnut-burr, 294. 



Fungi on house-fly, 295. 

 opposed to cultivation, 86-88. 

 Ornamental forms of, 227. 

 Phosphorescent, 227. 

 Physiological features of, 15. 

 Poisoning by, 2, 15, 29: diagnosis 
and treatment, 37 ; remedies. 38, 
39 ; intoxication from, 59 ; antidotes, 
62, 67. 68; report of poisoning case, 
63-66 ; poisoning by contact and 
odor, 69; edible species inoculated 
by contact, 70. 

 Popular distrust of, 15, 21. 

 Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

 Raw, eaten as salad, 248, 319. 

 Recipes for cooking, 306-319. 

 simulating animal food, 15, 30, 302. 

 Spores and Spore-print of, 277-296. 

 Study of, 7. 

 traditions and superstitions, 22, 23. 

 V^:etation of, 44, 47, 85-92, 107, 
294. 

 Whims of habitat of, 294. 
Fungologists, Amateur, safe rules for,, 

33. 
Fungus food in Europe and America, 

8, 13-15. 35. 299. 

 gnats, flies, and beetles, 37. 

Gasteromycetes. 78. 

Gathering mushrooms, Rules for, 35,36. 

Gautier, Dr. M. L., 62. Bibliography. 

No. 29, 327. 
Germany, Fungus-eaters in, 14. 
Gill-bearing mushrooms, 75-178. 
Gnats infesting fungi, 37. 
Greville, R. R. Bibliography, No. 19. 

327- 
"Grubs" in fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135- 

Harkness, Dr. H. W., 32, 245, 310. 
Bibliography, No. 5, 325. 

Hawk fed upon Boleti, 302. 

Hawthorne, Nathaniel, allusion to fun- 
gus phosphorescence, 228. 



INDEX 



333 



Hay, William D. Bibli<^praphy, Nos. 
20, 21, 327. 

Heat destroys poison, 29, 72. 

Hedgehog mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Helvella crispa, 1 1, 231, 261, 262; oth- 
er species, 1 1 ; recipes for cooking, 
262, 316; to dry, 322. 

Historical fungi, 43, 59, 60. 

Hogg, Robert, LL.D. Bibliography, 
No. 15, 326. 

Horse mushroom. See Agaricus ar- 
vensis. 

House-fly fungus, 295. 

Hungarian soup of Boleti, 314. 

Hussey, Mrs. T. J., 40. 306, 310, 311, 
315. 318- Bibliography, No. 10, 
326. 

JlydttH, 231-247; to cook, 310. 

Jlydnum, 300, 307;  capuUmedusa, 1 1, 
27, 238-243; repandum, il, 28, 232- 
238 ;  rufescens^ 237, 238 ;  coral- 
loides^ 245;  gilatinosum^ 319. 

 Various edible species of, 11; to 
cook, 246. 

Hygrometric fungus, 119. 
Nygtophorus ebumeus and pratensis^ 

II. 
Hymenium of fungi, 78. 
UymenomyceUs^ 78. 
JJyphomyctes^ 78. 

Identification of fungi, 31. 

Idiosyncrasy, 30, 61. 

Indigestibility of certain species, 

30. 
Inky mushroom, 28. See Coprinus. 
Insects attacked by fungi, 295. 

 infesting fungi, 25, 29, 34, 36, 38. 

135. 
Intoxication by Amanita, 59. 

Introduction, i. 

Italy, Fungus-eaters of, 14, 86. 

Jelly-like mushroom, 319. 
Johnson, Geo. W. Bibliography, No. 
15. 326. 



Kamchatka, Amanita dipsomaniacs 

of, 59, 60. 
Ketchup, Mushroom. See Catsup. 
Koppe, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 

Lactarius, Poisonous, 61. 
Lactarius, Various edible sjsecies of , 1 1 ; 

 deliciosusy 28, 166-171, 300, 31 1 ; 

piperaius^7,%y 171;  voUmum^ 171. 
Lambs' kidneys. Flavor of, in fungi, 

300, 311. 
Letters to the author, 4. 
Liver mushroom. See Fistulina. 
Lucand, L. Bibliography, No. 30, 327. 
Luminous fungi, 227. 
LycoperdacecBy 267. 
Lycoperdon, See Puff-ball. 

 bovista^ II. 

 structure of, 270. 

Mailing fungus specimens, 4. 

Marasmius^  scorodotuus^ 1 1 ;  oreades^ 
II, 101-108;  urens, 108-111;/^- 
ronatusy 109-113. 

Mcllvaine, Captain Charles, 32; rule 
regarding edibility of fungi, 35 ; di- 
agnosis and treatment of mushroom 
poisoning, 39, 40, 62 ; fastidious- 
ness of fungi, 86, 184, 208^, Bibli- 
ography, No. 6, 325. 

Meadow Mushroom. See Agaricus 
campestris. 

Medical and Surgical Reporter quoted, 
62. 

Medusa Mushroom. See Hydnum. 

Menu of mushrooms, 323. 

Microbes, 7. 

Microscopic fungi, 7. 

Mildew, 7, 78. 

Milky mushroom. See Lactarius. 

Miscellaneous fungi, 231-274. 

Mock oyster soup, 306. 

Moore, Justin P. Bibliography, No. 

5. 325. 
Afoniieur Scientifique^ quotation from, 

61. 



334 



INDEX 



Morchella escuUnta, See Morel. 

 caroliniana^ la. 

Morel, 12, 231, 256; to cook, 316; to 

dry, 322. 
Mortality in mushroom poisoning, 

43. 
Moss-mushroom, 245. 

" Mother," 7. 

Moulds, 7, 78. 

Moyen, J. Bibliography, No. 31, 327. 

" Muscarine " poison, 60. 

"Mushroom" and ** Toadstool," 16- 

21. 
Mushrooms. See Toadstools, Agari- 

cus. Boletus, Polyporei, Fistulina, 

and Fungi. 

 ii la crime, 308. 

 i la Proven9al, 308. 

 Analysis of, 289-291. 

 Baked, 31 1-3 13. 

 Basket for, 36. 

 Bibliography, No. 8,325; No. 23,327. 

 Broiled, 308. 

 by mail, 4. 

 catsup, 320. 

 Chemical nature of, 14, 61. 

 Chestnut-burr, 294. 

 Classification of, 77, 78. 

 Cosmopolitan types of, 12. 

 Cultivation of, 85, 86. Bibliogra- 
phy, No. 23, 327. 

 Drying of, for food, 119, 246, 262, 
301, 310, 321. 

 Edible, 8, 13-15. 32. 

 Edible species : plentiful supply 
of, 13. 35, 303; Beefsteak, 11, 27; 
Coral, see Clavaria ; Elm, 10 ; 
" Fairy-ring," 95, loi ; False Fairy- 
ring, 108, 109; Horse, 85, 91-95; 
Inky, II, 20, 28, 88 ; Meadow, see 
Agaricus campestris ; Milky, see 
Lactarius ; Moss, 245 ; Oyster, see 
Agaricus ostreatus ; Pasture, 10, 13, 
113; Russulae, 119-141 ; Spine- 
bearing, see Hydnum ; St. George's, 
95-101. 



Mushrooms, Fastidiousness of most 
species of, 86, 294. 

 Fried, 313, 317. 

 Fritters of, 314, 317. 

 Insecte infesting, 25, 29, 34, 36-38, 

135. 

 Large specimens of, 92. 

 List of works on, 325. 

 Menu, 323. 

 Melting. See Coprinus. 

 Milky. See Lactarius. 

 Moss. See Hydnum. 

 Mycelium or spawn of, and vegeta- 
tion of, 44, 45, 77. 85-88, 92, 107. 

 Number of edible species of, 2, 7, 9, 
32, 60; identification of, 2, 31; Cur- 
tis's list of, 9-12; nourishing prop- 
erties of, 14 ; chemical simulation of 
animal food by, 15, 30, 302; popular 
tests for detecting, 22, 23; refuta- 
tion of same, 24-29 ; desiccation of, 
119, 321; recipes for cooking, 306^ 
322. 

 Number of general species of, 6. 

 Pickled, 319. 

 pie, 312. 

 Poisonous species of, 2, 15, 17, 43 
74 ; deadly species of, 2. 15, 43-74 ; 
poison by contact with, 30, 69; vine- 
gar, sweet oil, and whiskey, 39 ; diag- 
nosis and treatment of poisoning, 
39,63-66; historical poisoning by,43, 
59, 60; fatalities from, 43, 61 ; intoxi- 
cation from, 59, 60; poison discrim- 

 inated, 61 ; antidotes, 62, 67, 68 ; 
report of a poisoning case, 63-66 ; 
harmless mushrooms inoculated from 
poisonous, 70; salt, vinegar, and 
heat, 29, 39, 71, 72. See, also, Ama- 
nita, A'ussula emetica^ Boletus, and 
False Champignon. 

 Rapid decay of, 6, 25, 30. 

 Roast, 311. 

 Rules for gathering, 36, 70. 

 Rural authorities on, 16-22. 

 salad, 319. 



INDEX 



335 



Mushroom soup, 306, 307, 323. 

 spawn. See Mycelium. 

 spores. See Spores and Spore- 
prints. 

 Stewed, 307, 308-311, 3I5-3I7- 

 tube. See Polyporei. 

 Testing new species of, for edibility, 

33. 

 Whims of habitat of, 294. 

MyceUs fungi, 77. 

Mycology and mycophagy, 3, 4, 7, 8. 

 Medical and economic, 7, 8, 13-15, 

35. 277. 
Mycophagists of America, 8, 9. 

 Amateur, safe rules for, 38. 

Nero, 59; poisonous mushrooms used 

by, 43. 
Night, Fungi luminous by, 227 
Nourishing properties of mushrooms, 

Oak-tongue fungus. See Fistulina. 
Odor of Amanita poisonous, 69. 
Omelet, Mushroom, 277, 278, 318. 
Orcella^ Agaric, 300. 
Oyster mushroom, 10, 26, 27, 141-148 ; 
to cook, 303, 311, 315. 

 flavor in fungi, 237, 247, 300, 303, 

307. 3io 312- 

Pachyma cocas ^ 1 1. 

Palmer, Julius A., quoted: "Silver 
test,*' 25, 32, 40 ; on Amanita poison, 
61, 69-71, 184, 207; on mushroom 
food, 303, 306, 311. Bibliography, 
Nos. 2, 3, 325. 

Pasture, or parasol, mushroom, 9, 13, 
80, 113. 

Paulet, 306, 314. 

Pctxillus involutus^ 11. 

Payer, J. Bibliography, No. 27, 327. 

Peck, Prof. Charles H., 32, 40, 182, 
237, 246. Bibliography, No. 4, 325. 

Persoon, 306, 316. 

Phosphorescence in fungi, 227. 



Pickled mushrooms, 319. 
Pie of mushrooms, 312, 315. 

Plates of the book, 39. 

Pliny on mushroom ** tests," 25 ; on 
poisonous mushrooms, 43, 59 ; on 
edible mushrooms, 298. 

Poison-cup. See Amanita. 

Poison of Amanita, 43, 61 ; antidote, 
68 ; poisoning by contact and odor, 
69. 

Poisoning by fungi : Diagnosis and 
treatment, 38, 63, 68; vinegar as 
an antidote, 38, 71 ; antidote, 62, 
68 ; Amanita, 2, 15, 43-74 ; poison- 
ous species identified, 2, 15, 61 ; 
popular poison "tests" refuted, 
17, 21-29 1 poisoning by contact, 
30.69. 

Poisons, fatal and minor, 2, 15, 17, 29, 
30, 6i. 

Polyporei^ 78, 181-228; to dry, 321. 

Polyporus, various edible species of, 11 ; 
 sulphureus^ ii, 219, 303; to cook, 
316; botanical character of, 181-184, 
285. 

Popular discrimination between *' toad- 
stool" and "mushroom," 16-22; 
popular distrust of fungi, 15. 

Pore-bearing mushrooms. See Boletus, 
Polyporei, and Fistulina. 

Procerus mushroom, 10 ; pie of, 312. 

Puff-ball fungi, 11, 13. 27, 78, 231, 267, 
299; gemmatum, 268; saccatum, 268; 
giganteuntf 268, 318; dissemination 
of spores of, 268, 277-280 ; medical 
use of, 277 ; as food, 277, 318 ; to 
cook, 318. 

"Punk," 37, i8i. 

Puree of mushrooms, 307. 

RagoCt of mushrooms, 309, 316. 
Ravenel, H. W. Bibliography, No. 7, 

325. 
Recipes for cooking fungi, 72, 306- 

322. 
" Ring" in mushrooms, 48, 85, 95. 



336 



INDEX 



Robinson, W., 306, 312, 313. Bib- 
liography, No. 23, 327. 

Roques, Joseph, 237, 306, 310, 311. 
Bibliography, No. 24, 327. 

Rove-beetles infesting fungi, 37. 

Rules for the ventttresome, 33. 

Russia, Fungus-eaters in, 14 ; fly Anuu 
nita in, 29. 

Russula^ 12, 13, 18, 26,28;  lepida^ 12, 
127;  alutacea^ 12, 133;  virescens, 
12, 88, 120, 300 ;  tnutica, 25, 27, 28, 
61, 120, 122,136-141;  heterophylla^ 
134, 300 \ ruber, 300. 

Russula^ 119; opposed to cultivation of, 
88; insects infesting, 13s; to bake, 
311; as salad, 319 ; to dry, 321. 

Rust, 7. 

Rustic fungology, 18-22. 

Salad of mushrooms, 319. 

Salt as an antidote, 39, 72. 

" Salt test " of mushrooms, 23, 29. 

Scaly mushrooms. See Amanita, Ago- 

ricus procerus, and Boletus strobi- 

loides, 
Schmiedeberg, Dr. , on Amanita poison, 

60. 
* ' Scotch Bonnet. " See Agaricus pro- 

cerus. 
* * Sep.  See Boletus edulis, 
* Seven Sisters of Sleep,", by Rev. Dr.. 

M. C. Cooke, 59. 
Shadle. Dr. J. E., 62. 
Sha^y-mane mushrooms, ii, 13; rus- 
tic appreciation of, 19, 27, 28. See 

Coprinus comatus. 
** Shroud " in Amanita, 48. 
Silver, Discoloration of, as a " test," 23. 
Smith, Worthington T., 40, 306, 307, 

309, 314. Bibliography, No. 14, 326. 
Smuts, 7. 

Socket in Amanita. See Volva. 
Souffle of pufi'-balLs. 318. 
Sparassis,  crispa, 12 ;  luminosa, 12. 
"Spawn," or mycelium, of fungi, 44, 

45. 77. 80. 85-88. 92, 107. 



Specimens by mail, 5. 

Spiders attacked by fungi, 295. 

Spine-bearing mushrooms,, 11, 27. See 
Hydnum. 

Spore-prints from mushrooms, 44, 277- 
296 ; from Amanita muscarius, 287, 
289 ; from Boletus, 285, 287 ; from 
Agaricus campestris, 283. 

Spore surface, or hymenium, 78, 182. 

Spores of fungi, 79, 87, 182, 268, 277- 
296; number of, 279; buoyancy of, 
278-293; various colors of, 287; va- 
rious forms of, 293. 

Sporidiifcra, 77, 231, 256. 

Spori/era, 77, 78, 231. 256. 

Staphylinus beetles infesting mush> 
rooms, 37. 

Stevenson, John. Bibliography, No. 
22, 327. 

Stew of fungi, 307, 308-311, 315-317. 

St. George's mushroom, 95-101. 

Strobilomyces, 202. 

Styptic, Puff-balls used as, 277. 

Sulphur mushroom, 219, 303; to cook, 
316 ; as a salad, 319. 

** Sweetbreads" in fungi, 300, 303. 

Sweet-oil treatment for mushroom poi- 
soning, 39. 

Taylor, Thomas M. Bibliography, 
No. 8, 325. 

Teeth-bearing mushrooms. See Hyd- 
num. 

TertuUian on toadstools, 17. 

Testing new species for edibility, 33. 

"Tests" or "proofs" for the detec- 
tion of poisonous species, 17, 21-29. 

Therapeutic Gazette, quotation from, 

39- 
Thore, Dr., quoted, 86. 

Thread-like fungi, 78. 

"Tinder," 37, i8i. 

"Toadstool" and "Mushroom," 16- 
21,36; popular discrimination of , 16- 
24; popular tests for their discrimina- 
tion and their refutation, 17-22, 24 



2g. See Mushroom. Fungi, Agaricus, 

Amanita, Boletus, Polyporei, Morel, 

Clavaria, Helvetia. 
"Toadstools," l8l. 
"Touchwood," 37, i8i. 
Tnmtila mtiiHUrica. 13. 
Tmntlodoti gtlaliaestun, 3lg. 
TticAogastres, 231. See Puff-balls. 
Tube mushrooms. See Folyporei, 

Boletus, and FistuUna. 

Vegetarian, Menu for the, 304, 323. 
Veil in mushrooms, 48, 60, 85. 
Vigier, Dr., on Amanita poison, 60. 



Vinegar as an antidote (or mushroom 

poisoning. 39, 71. 
Vitadini. 318. 
Volva in Amanita, Importance of. in 

dassifi cation, ag, 33, 48. 77. 

Warty mushrooms. See Amanita, 
Pasture Mushroom, and Strobyio' 

Wisps and bees, 36. 
 Fungus attacking, ags. 
Whiskey in mushroom poisoning, 39, 
Wormy specimens of fungi, as, 30, 34, 
36-38, 135. 



> 



