
Q0U 








r^(J^i 



,^Si— - 







■■Mmfiifim'M/i- 



iSi'/*'tH«M)f«i3«mi»i(»jS«9« 



LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 



CORNELL 
ITHACA, 



UNIVERSITf 
NEW YORK 




GIFT OF 

YVONNE DE TEEVILLE 



p ^ 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis bool< is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001868896 



POOD PRODUCTS 



OF 



THE WORLD 



BY /WARY E. GREEN. M. D. 

Member of the Amebican Medical Association. 

Member of the Jury of Awards on Food 

Products, World's Columbian 

Exposition. 



SIXTH EDITION 



CHICAGO 

THE HOTEL WORLD 



^y. 



Copyrighted, 1895, 

By MARY E. GREEN, M. D. 



To MY FHIKND AND TEACHES, 
MISS JXJLIET CORSON, 

THE FLKST WOMAN IK AMEHICA TO EtEVATE COOKERY TO THE 

DIGNITY OF A SCIENCE AND THE BEAUTY OF AN ART, 

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED 

BY THE AUTHOR. 



INTRODUCTION. 



There is no more important factor in the successful conduct of 
the household than a knowledge of the composition of foods and 
their dietetic value, and no greater aid to the housewife in this 
direction has ever before been published. 

The working housekeeper is unconsciously a practical chemist, 
for unless she has some knowledge of the substances which she 
combines in various dishes she may produce some poor results 
from excellent materials. There is quite a goodly aggregate of in- 
formation floating through the culinary air; this cook knows a little, 
that one, a bit more; and the better a cook is the less she is likely 
to know about the chemistry of foods. She may know that a little 
i^yga^ or vinegar added to a soup or sauce that is too salt willl 
modify the taste, but she probably does not know the reason why.j 
She never has time to learn why things result as they do, but must 
learn from her more intelligent compeers or from her mistress just 
such facts as are stated in this book concerning the properties of 
foods and their nutritive value. In this respect this book may be- 
come a mine of knowledge to the cook and an incentive to better 
work. 

To the average half -trained cooking teacher it wiU indeed be 
useful, supplying her with the practical knowledge not found in 
other text books, for I do not know of one which covers the ground 
so thoroughly as this. Written by a woman who possesses a med- 
ical and chemical knowledge of foods, their properties and their re- 
lation to health, and who is also a skilled housewife, the value of 
the book is self evident. 

Dr. Green has a professional record that many men might envy. 
She has conducted a successful practice ever since her graduation 
from the Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia in 1868, has long 
been a member of the American Medical Association, and was unan- 
imously chosen to serve upon the Jury of Awards on Food Products 
at the World's Columbian Exposition. I am glad that I had the ad- 



INTEODUCTION. v. 

vantage of being associated with her in the work of judging food 
products at the World's Pair. Dr. Green's scientific record, her 
practical experience in the art of alimentation, her professional ap- 
plication of the science of dietetics to the emergencies of every day 
life, have wonderfully fitted her for the work she has undertaken in 
this book. 

No public library is complete without this book; no housekeeper 
can afford to be without it; no cook capable of comprehending what 
she reads can fail to receive great benefit from its study. It should 
be indispensable to the great army of club women, scattered all 
over this broad land, who are just now beginning to study house- 
keeping and the science of foods. 



%M-^2>j&-yi/ 



PREFACE. 



The subject matter in. this book was originally published in, a 
series of magazine articles begun just after the close of the World's 
Columbian Exposition. The fact that at the Exposition was 
gathered the most complete and cosmopolitan array of food pro- 
ducts ever displayed is sufficient apology for the frequent allusions 
made to these exhibits throughout the book. 

In some instances seemingly undue importance has been given 
to the consideration of certain foods, namely, condiments, vegetable 
oils, and mushrooms. In regard to condiments the literature ex- 
tant is both scanty and inaccessible, notwithstanding the fact that 
they are deemed a necessity in every household and have been, 
owing to their antiseptic and aromatic properities, valuable articles 
of culinary use since the earliest of historic periods. In no country 
are vegetable oils superior to those of the United States produced, 
and Americans are but slowly learning their value for culinary and 
table use; while mushrooms, because of their high nutritive value 
and the ease with which they may be cultivated, deserve to rank 
among our staple foods. 

Effort has been made to so demonstrate the hygienic and nutri- 
tive values of foods that the book may meet the needs of that large 
body of housekeeping women who have neither time nor sufficient 
energy to delve into purely scientiflo works on this subject and yet 
who feel that a knowledge of food values is indispensable in the 
preparation of dietaries for their families. The housekeeper who 
understands nothing of the chemical processes that occur in the 
sanctuary called a kitchen is simply a slave to her receipt book. 
The housekeeper who does, whUe giving due honor to the writers of 
recipes, may in emergencies become wholly independent of them. 

For valuable aid in the preparation of this work I wish to ac- 
knowledge my indebtedness to the writings of Dr. Edward Smith, 
Pavy, Sir Henry Thompson^ Whitehead, Goodfellow, Dr. Doran, 
Theodore Childs, Johnston, Youmans, and W. O. Atwater. 

M. E. G. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

Brief resume of the exhibition of foods at the World's Columbian 
Exposition— The Agiicultural Building— The importance of agri- 
culture and food production 1 

CHAPTER II. 

Food and its properties — The evolution of cookery— Proper conserva- 
tion of food products— Definition of food— Classification of nutritive 
elements by Dunglison, Prout, and Li ebig— Latest classification: 
protein, carbohydrates, fats, minerals, and water f 

CHAPTER III. 

Meats — The use of meats by aboriginal man— Their importance in 
the ancient civilizations — The boar's head and peacock— Nutritive 
values of different meats: beef, veal, mutton, and pork— Exhibit 
of meat at the Columbian Exposition — The American packing 
houses 15 

CHAPTER IV. 

Preservation of meat by drying- Aboriginal and Indian methods- 
Jerked beef, tasajo, and pemmican — Modern method of drying 
beef— Dried or summer sausages— Exhibits of dried meats at the 
Columbian Exposition 23 

CHAPTER V. 

Preservation of meat by salting and curing— Value of salt as a pre- 
servative — Chemical action of salt upon meat— Modem methods: 
immersion in brine, packing in dry salt, dry curing, dry salting, 
and smoking— Exhibits of salted and cured meats 31 

CHAPTER VI. 

Preservation of meat by heating and canning— Processes used by M. 
Appert, de Heine, "Wertheimer, and the modern canning factory — 
The canned meat industry of America, Europe, and Australia— Ex- 
hibits at the Columbian Exposition— Preservation of meat by cold, 
by coating with fat, by pickling, by various chemicals 33 

CHAPTER VII. 

The economy and advantage of utilizing offal— The boar's head, 
sweet-breads, heart, liver, kidneys, ox tails, ox lips and ox palates, 
tripe, lungs, and blood— Commercial value of offal 43 



tui contents. 

CHAPTER Vni. 

■Wild fowl and the history of its domestication— Nutritive value of 
poultry and game— Flavor of the meat influenced by diet, e. g., 
canvasback duck, ptarmigan, Congo chicken, etc.— The unwhole- 
someness of "ripened" or "gamey" fowl— Pate de foie gras— Ex- 
hibits at Columbian Exposition from Siam, Germany, France, 
Russia, England, South America, and the United States 17 

CHAPTER IX. 

The Fisheries building and aquaria exhibits at the Columbian Ex- 
position—Dietetic value of fish— Exhibits of dried and preserved 
fish from all countries- Fish delicacies: caviare, cods' tongues and 
sounds, sardines, anchovies, roe, fish bouillon— Squid and cuttle- 
fish— Sea-weed— The United States Department of Fisheries 55 

CHAPTER X. 

Food value of shell-fish— lobster, crab, crawfish, shrimp, and prawn- 
Oyster, clam and mussel— Periwinkle, cockle, scallop, limpet, and 
whelk— Shell-fish as known to the Greeks and Romans— History of 
the oyster and oyster culture — Oyster culture in England, France, 
Germany, Spain, Holland, and America— Nutritive value of the 
oyster— Nutritive value of the turtle— Green turtle— Terrapin— Ex- 
hibits at the Columbian Exposition 67 

CHAPTER XI. 

Dietetic value of soups— The soup of Count Rumford— Bouillon— Con- 
somme — Puree— Bouill-abaisse — ^MuUagatawny, and others— Nutri- 
tive value and composition of meat extracts— American and foreign 
extracts compared— Exhibits of soups and extracts at Columbian 
Exposition 79 

CHAPTER XII. 

Condiments, their ancient and mediaeval usage — Their hygienic 
value— Vegetable aromatics: clove, cinnamon, cassia-bud, pimento, 
nutmeg, mace, cardamon, pepper, cumin, coriander, fenugreek, 
grains of Paradise, anise, dill, caraway, basil, chervil, celery, fennel, 
bay-leaves, summer savory, parsley, thyme, sage, sweet marjoram, 
mint, tarragon, onion, leek, garlic, saHron, capers, turmeric, curry 
powder — Pungent aromatics: mustard, horse radish, ginger, 
chillies — Salt— Pastes and essences of shrimp, lobster, bloater, an- 
chovy, etc.— Pickles of cucumber, olive, samphire, etc.— Sauces: 
chutney, Tabasco, Worcestershire, ketchup, carachi, cassareep, 
and soy— Flavors of almond, tonka bean, vanilla, chocolate, 
lemon, orange, etc.— Acids: vinegar, lime juice, and verjuice— Cor- 
dials: Curacoa, Noyau, Ratafia, anisette, kummel, absinthe. Char- 
treuse, Maraschino, etc.— Exhibit of condiments and spices at the 
Columbian Exposition 83 



CONTENTS. U 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Milk, a perfect and universal food— Its usage by different nations- 
Chemical composition— Both quality and quantity of the milk of 
animals afiected by the character of their diet— Necessity of clean 
surroundings, pure water, and proper food for cows— Milk as a 
medium of infection— Changes due to bacteria— The value of steril- 
ization— Koumiss— Matzoon— Condensed milk 109 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Butter, the antiquity of its manufacture and usage— The modern 
dairy farm— Dairy methods of Holland and Scandinavia— Flavor 
and keeping qualities due to bacteria— The poor, mainly the vic- 
tims of inferior buttei^Butter used in public institutions usually 
inferior 117 

CHAPTER XV. 

Nutritive value and digestibility of cheese— Necessity of bacterial 
ferments in its manufacture— Varieties due to the development of 
certain bacteria— Commercial value— The cheese-making nations- 
Varieties : Cheddar, Cheshire, Double Gloucester, Banbury, Stilton, 
Gorgonzola, Cachio Cavallo, Parmesan, Roquefort, Gruyere, Port 
du Salut, Brie, Camembert, Neufcbatel, Gouda, Edam, Limburger, 
Lipton, Schweitzer, Ulmetzer, Tyrolean, American cheese 123 

CHAPTER XVI. 

Butterine— History of experiments leading to its manufacture— Its 
nutritive and hygienic value compared with that of butter— Chem- 
ical composition—Process of making — Its value in institutions and 
to the poor— Governmental legislation against its manufacture 131 

CHAPTER XVII. 

Oil as a nutrient— Vegetable oils, their origin and process of manu- 
facture—Oils from the olive, cotton-seed, peanut, turnip-seed, palm, 
cocoanut, and cocoa-bean— Exhibits of culinary oils at the Colum- 
bian Exposition 139' 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

Cereals, the largest food crops of the world— Nutritive values of dif- 
ferent cereals— Antiquity of wheat culture— Its usage by Egyptians, 
Chinese, Swiss Lake Dwellers, and Romans— Com, its nutritive 
value— Its culture by the ancient Peruvians, by the Indians and 
modem races— Barley— Legend concerning its origin— Its usage 
by the ancient races, by the modem Scotch and Japanese— Oats- 
Millet— Rye— Buckwheat— Rice, the food grain of the Orient— Nutri- 
tive value and usage by the Oriental nations 149 



X CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Bread and macaroni— Bread of the ancient Egyptians, Greeks. 
Romans, Welsh— Bread of primitive and savage peoples— Bread of 
Sweden, Lapland, Iceland, and Russia — Chemical composition of 
various cereal flours— Superiority of wheaten flour due to the 
gluten contained — Chemistry of bread making— Yeast, its origin 
and chemical properties— Leavened, salt-rising, aerated, germ, 
*'Boston brown," and graham, bread — Adulterants of flour — Maca- 
roni, the bread of the Italian — History of usage and process of man- , 
ufacture— Vermicelli, spaghetti, and pastes— Exhibits at the Colum- 
bian Expositioa 163 

CHAPTER XX. 

Edible fungi— A nutritious and concentrated food— Nutritive value 
compared with that of other foods — Common meadow mushroom — 
Fairy ring mushroom— Giant puff ball— Morels— Truffles— Methods 
of mushroom culture — Exhibits at Columbian Exposition 179 

CHAPTER XXI. 

The legumes— Bean — Soy bean— Pea— Chickpea— Lentil — History of 
their cultivation— OUa podrida 187 

CHAPTER XXII. 

The tubers and succulent roots— Origin and history of culture— White 
and sweet potatoes — ^Yam — Salep — Taro — ^Jerusalem artichoke — Ar- 
rowroot—Sweet and bitter cassava — Turnip, carrot, and other suc- 
culent roots 193 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

Salads and salad plants— The hygienic value of salads — The salads 
of ancient and mediaeval times— The bitter herbs of the Passover 
feasts — The Roman salad — Oriental salads— Lettuce— Endive — Cel- 
ery — Water cress— Sorrel— Spinach— Cabbage— Onion— Leek— Gar- 
lic— Chives, and others 805 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

Fruits and Nuts— History of fruit culture— Fruits of Elizabethan 
England— Classification: drupes, berried fruits, pomes and nuts 
or hard, dry fruits — Orange— Citron— Lemon— Lime — Shaddock or 
grape fruit — Apple — Pear — Quince — Grape — Raisin — Currant — 
Gooseberry — Blackberry — Mulberry — Raspberry — Elderberry — 
Cranberry— Huckleberry or blueberry— Watermelon— Muskmelon— 
Banana or plantain— Guava— Fig— Pomegranate — Papaw— Cherry — 
Nectarine— Apricot— Date — Litchi— Mango — Bread-fruit— Tamarind 
—Pine apple— Medlar— Jaca— Prickly pear— Persimmon— Durian, 
and others — Acorn — Chestnut — Walnut — Hickory nut — Pecan — 
Beechnut— Hazel nut— Filbert— Almond— Cocoanut— Brazil nut- 
Peanut— Bread nut— Pekea nut— Kola nut — Cashew nut— Souari 
nut— Pistache—Sapucaya— Candle nut— The fruitarian theory, its 



CONTENTS. Xi 

strength and weakness— Exhibits at the Columbian Exposition.. . 217 
CHAPTER XXV. 

The sugars and starches— Cane sugar group— Glucose group— Meli- 
tose—Glycyrrhiziue—Mycose—Melizitose— Lactose— Maltose— Man- 
nite— Trehalose — Sorbin — Quercite— Finite— Inosite— Saccharine- 
Honey — Cane sugar — Beet sugar— Maple sugar— Sorghum— Palm 
sugar — Glucose or starch sugars-Grape sugar— Exhibits at the 
Columbian Exposition— Starches of wheat, maize, potatoes, rice, 
arrowroot, cassava, and sago palm 239 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 




CHAPTER I. 



THE IMPORTANCE OF AGKICULTUBE AND FOOD 
PRODUCTION. 



''HE great achievement of the minds who con- 
ceived, builded and gave to the people the 
World's Columbian Exposition was both the 
magnitude of the whole project and its per- 
fection. In scope it was limit-defying and 
yet of wonderful completeness. The large 
things were perfect and right. As in the sphinxes 
^ and portrait-statues of Egjrpt, the only sacrifices 
made were those of detail, never those of propor- 
tion. The artists and builders of the nineteenth 
century learned well these principles, dim though 
they appear in the shadowy perspective of the past, 
and if detail has been subordinated to mass or here 
and there lost sight of, the value of the whole has 
been but slightly reduced. This exposition will 
remain as the most perfect lesson ever written for 
the learning of man prior to the dawn of the 
twentieth century. Books are made and being 
made; the press of this whole land has been and still is enlisted in 
the service of the thought awakened. The Art Gallery has been 
the free l8»ce of scores of writers; the Liberal Arts building the 



2 FOOD FKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

mine and treasure-house of a universe of artisans; woman has been 
discovered, re-discovered and then discovered again; Izaak Walton, 
revivified, has been set up as the deity of the Fisheries building; 
the oil of sentiment, full measure, has been poured upon the 
stormy waters of far-away La Babida; the sea, earth and air have 
verily given up their secrets and their deities of trident and thunder- 
bolt are with us again. 

On account of this immensity and completeness certain exhibits 
at the great fair were more popular than others, while even a 
casual visitor could not fail to observe that some received less at- 
tention than their absolute merit warranted. This was, usually, 
because the importance of these exhibits was too lightly estimated, 
or because their place, with its meed of honor, was not fully estab- 
lished in our world of industry. Perhaps on this latter account 
one building received somewhat less than its share of appreciation, 
although its exhibits have been pronounced by authorities as rela- 
tively more complete than any on the grounds. I refer to the 
Agricultural building. Common-place? Perhaps, perhaps not. The 
majority of exposition visitors, limited in point of time and matter 
of money, rushed headlong through exhibits, pell-mell, helter- 
skelter, attracted chiefly by whatever savored of sentimentalism, 
amusement and excitement. What could not be described by one 
of these terms was quite likely to be set down as common-place, 
and for this reason we heard comparatively little of our agricultural 
and food exhibition. Though a legion of visitors, interested and 
amazed, passed through the aisles of the Agricultural building during 
the summer of 1893 and examined the exhibits, food or food produc- 
tion unfortunately is not a fad and its champions are strangely 
silent. The faddists dwell now-a-days in the realms of religion, art 
and reform, unmindful of the necessity of agricultural interest and 
thankless for the labor of those who, through the production, preser- 
vation and scientific preparation of food, have made possible our 
wealth of science, literature and art. As the Agricultural building 
stood, during those months of enchantment, immense, strong, un- 
compromising, facing the inlet waters of beautiful Lake Michigan 
and the statue of the Republic, bridging the distance between the 
promise of higher science and artisanship as seen in the Liberal 
Arts building, and the relics of aboriginal agriculture and cookery 
in the Anthropological building on the south, so stands the fact of 
agriculture to-day in our national economy. As the building stood 



FOOD PBODUOTS OF THE WORLD. 



there, continuing with its columned walls the colonnade over the 
gateway of the lake, it formed part of the peristyle, and we remem- 
ber that now no less than in the days of the Greeks did the peris- 
tyle enshrine a deity; theirs a god of power, ours a deity of liberty, 
whose being is progress and whose spirit, law. As we saw the walls 
of this building encircled by figures, bearing in their outstretched 
arms the signs of the zodiac, we thought again of our agricultural 
interests, encircled by the heavens and dependent upon their 
moods and seasons for prosperity. As this building stood, proud, 
ornamented with groups of sculpture, garlanded with flowers and 
decorated with pastoral scenes that recall the husbandry of Virgil, 
so from our food production spring the beauty and grace of our 
present civilization. Without the productiveness of agriculture 
our arts and industries could not exist. Without this, perfected by 

science and re- 
j3^5SSj^-v fined by method, 
the highest intel- 
lectual achieve- 
ments were impos- 
sible. Agriculture, 
the science of 
food - production, 
is the broad head- 
land upon which 
7 the possibilities and successes 
of the world to-day are an- 
chored, a headland rocky and 
stubbornly assertive, perhaps, 
but overgrown with flowers 
and from which are springing 
the forests and giant oaks of 
the ages to come. 

In walking through the 
corridors of this Agricultural 
building, the earth and its 
nations seem drawn up for 
martial review. They chal- 
lenge us and each other, throwing down the gauntlet vrith as 
sturdy a pride as if it would not be taken up sootier or later in our 
own versatile America. The history of the older nations, the cus- 
2 




4 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

toms of the new, the social status of all, are revealed as satisfactorily 
by exhibited food products as by any other means. How do we 
know that Greece is fallen, that the days of Bomau glory are past 
and that Egypt is to-day only a nation of donkey-boys? By the 
nature of their food exhibits. Sardines and sausages were sent from 
the land of the Capitoline, tobacco from Thessaly and classic Ther- 
mopolsB; from Egypt, from the land of the Ptolemies and Osiris, 
nothing but silence. Thus the tales are told. 

Spain, the land of Isabella and Columbus, we see to-day as the 
great exporting bureau of choicest olive oil and sardines. France, 
the haven of domestic thrift, comes into view as the home of the 
mushroom and truffle. England and Scotland contribute superior 
canned meats and flsh, preserves and condiments. Switzerland, the 
Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries become better known 
to us and each other by their dairy products. Russia sends grains, 
sugars and liquors; Italy cereals, sugars, macaroni and pastes. 
The countries of the far Bast and the tropics are no less well repre- 
sented, for here we see the coffee of Arabia, Java and Liberia, the 
latter exceptionally fine. There is exhibited tea of all grades from 
Japan and Ceylon, mate from Brazil and Paraguay, chocolate — ah, 
such chocolate! — from the Isle of Trinidad, and liquors from lands 
galore. Siam, the country of bamboo, rice and bananas, sends pre- 
served fruits, superior in some respects to any others on exhibition. 
India, Persia, Johore, Porto Rico, Jamaica with its sugars and rum. 
Orange IHree State with its display of fruits, ostrich feathers and 
diamonds, British Guiana with its sugars, preserves and famous 
Demarara bitters, Trinidad, the land of asphalt and the cocoa-bean, 
Curagoa, famous for its native liqueur, — all jostle each other in the 
democratic medley of an exhibition building. The malt and 
sausages of Frankfurt, the mineral waters of Carlsbad, stand in 
friendly proximity to the limes, dates and olives of Tunis; the bon- 
bons and preserves of Uruguay hobnob with the wool and canned 
mutton of Australia, and at each turn we come upon some of our 
own American products, so varied, interesting and profuse. 

Nothing equaling the agricultural displays of our states and 
territories was ever seen before. The wheat lands of Canada and 
our own great west sent their contribution in cereals of superior 
quality and statistics of immense production. Com was there in 
all its glory of waving leaf and tassel as decoration upon the booths 
and, in its richness of yellow and white, as the exhibit proper. The 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 5 

fruit belts of California, of our middle states, of the south and east, 
were represented by such displays as would have graced the ban- 
quet board of an Epicurus. Apples, pears, plums of royal purple 
and gold were there, grapes worthy to crown the temples of a 
Bacchus, and oranges from the west and south, the golden apples 
of our own Hesperides. The forests of New York, the New England 
states, Kansas, Michigan, Ohio and Canada, sent their product in 
the form of golden maple syrup and sugar, the extensive sugar-beet 
industry of Nebraska contributed its share of sweetness, there were 
vegetables of aU kinds and notably excellent specimens of canned 
fruits, pickles, jellies and preserves. 

The great packing houses sent their quota of meat — the aston- 
ishment of foreign nations and a stimulus to an industry already 
far-reaching and immense. We are reminded of our great Texas 
pastures, of the sheep ranches of Montana and the west, of the 
game, big and little, from the Rockies, of our prolific lakes and 
rivers from the "Big Sea Water" to the tiny mountain trout stream 
which may be spanned with a step. All these pass before the mind 
of a thinking visitor and he feels that it is a matter of time rather 
than climate when in this immense country of the west the best of 
the agricultural products of all lands will be gathered. No other 
country possesses so great a variety of climate, and when our arid 
land is reclaimed by irrigation and our wealth and multitude of re- 
sources cease to be wasted, it is not too much to promise that all 
our lands instead of a tiny park will merit the title, "Garden of the 
Gods." For America picks up the gauntlet that the other nations 
throw down and assimilates their products to a wonderful degree, 
as it does their people. 

No opportunity for so complete and perfect a study of the food 
products of the world has ever been given to the people before. 
Agriculture and food production, preparation and serving are 
arriving at last to a vantage ground of their own. They are coming 
to be recognized as the broad foundation upon which the social and 
intellectual superstructure of our civilization is based and upon 
which the quality of our arts and higher ludustries largely depend. 



CHAPTER II. 




FOOD AND ITS PEOPEBTIES. 



first and chief demand made by aboriginal 
man upon the earth and the elements about 
him was for food; the first, last and most par- 
ticular requirement of his civilized brother 
to-day still is that food be supplied him. This 
is the great common ground on which stand 
both savage and philosopher. The primitive man, we wiU. suppose, 
for he left neither legend nor written records to tell us, ate his food 
at all hours and on all occasions when it was to be procured, when 
he was hungry, and as there was no positive assurance of a next 
meal, when satiated as well. To him this food was shelter, compan- 
iouship and warmth. The starches, sugars and fats which it con- 
tained supplied fuel to the machinery of his body, giving him 
warmth and making possible great activity. The flesh-forming ele- 
ments of his food furnished him with strength and restored the 
wastes of an active vitality. He ate, it is probable, whatever of meat 
he could procure and was guided in the selection of non-poisonous 
herbs and vegetables by the preferences of the animals which he 
observed. 

The great difference at this stage between man and the animal, 
for in selection and appropriation their food was much the same, lay 
in the fact of man's cookery. One author has defined man as a 
cooking animal, and the comparison is apt. Primitive man, though 
'at first he ate his food raw, very soon came to improve its flavor by 
the application of heat, and the next step, after fashioning a weapon 
with which to Mil his game, was the moulding of a piece of mud or 




8 FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOBLD, 

clay into a vessel for the cooking of it. At first his food may have 
been cooked by roasting it directly over the flame, by burying it 
beneath the coals, or later by boUing it in a pot. He then added 
herbs and aromatic berries for flavoring and, patting succulent 
roots into the pot, made a savory stew. Again, by the addition of 
more liquid and longer cooking a soup, excellent, I have no doubt, 
was the result. And all the invention of modern cookery has been 
unable to improve in point of healthf ulness, nutrition and economy, 

upon the method used by 
aboriginal man, the slow boil- 
ing of meat in a clay pot over 
a Are. The whole science of 
cookery is coming back at 
last to something like that 
one simple process, excepting 
' in cases where nutritious and 
economical diet is not the 
Cliff-dwellers' Cooking Pots. thing demanded. People in 

this age require composite cookery and among certain classes the 
demands of a cloyed sense and a satiated appetite have created most 
elaborate and useless dishes. 

Now for health's sake we are awakening to the value of primi- 
tive methods again. We are suddenly discovering that a got of clay, 
the outer surface of which is roughened, requires less heat and re- 
tains it more easily than if of smooth surface. This fact we publish 
as of special benefit to dwellers in high altitudes. But we presently 
learn that archseologists are bringing to light similar pots used 
three, perhaps five thousand years ago by the cliff-dwellers of Colo- 
rado, and our self-complacency silently steals away. The Boston 
baked bean pot is almost duplicated by those found in the mummy 
pits of Ancon, Peru, and, if their ghastly proximity to lower maxil- 
lary bones, femurs and skulls could be forgotten, it is easy to imag- 
ine that beans cooked in them would have a flavor superior to those 
cooked in the well-cured pots of antipodal Boston. The same simple 
and perfect methods of cookery are used by all primitive people^ 
whether of past ages or of to-day, as the excavated burial mounds of 
America, of England and of other countries go to prove by means 
of the cooking utensUs found in them. The uncivilized nations of 
to-day can teach us many a needed lesson wherever they may be 
visited, be they the Indians of North or South America, the savages 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



of the South Sea Islands, or the Savannah and Arrawac tribes of 
British Guiana. The cooking vessels of aboriginal nations are of no 
small value to the archaeologist in determining the plane of civiliza- 
tion upon which these peoples rested, and are important links in 
the chain of development whose last link compasses the modern 
science, or better, the modern art of cookery. The elaboration of 
dishes, often to a senseless and unhealthful degree, is peculiar to 
what we term civilized man. Food, and, usually, whether it can be 
afforded or not, elaborate food is to-day our main requirement. 
Our cooks, despots that many of them often are, receive as great 
salaries as our statesmen, and the mysteries of certain combinations 
of foods are guarded as carefully by the chefs who possess them as 
ever were the secrets of an imperial regime. 

Pood, to arrive at a definition, is that substance which is capable 
of sustaining an organism in a state of health and is that which 
makes possible the continuing existence of all forms of life, both 
animal and vegetable. In its relation to the human body, food is 
the means by which the waste of the system is restored, its energies 
made effective and a healthy condition maintained. Neither one 
food nor a small number, merely, is sufficient to preserve health for 
any length of time. As many elements are demanded by the system, 
more than a limited number of foods are required. Some foods con- 
tain a large proportion of the flesh-forming elements, others a greater 
proportion of elements which are starchy or heat-producing. 

One of the most valuable contributions of science to the non- 
scientific world has 



been the analyses 
made of our food pro- 
ducts. The results of 
such investigation are 
continually changing 
their vantage ground 
and the last score of 
years has recognized 
principles and proven 
theories that were for- 
merly discredited or From Mummy Pits of Peru. 
unknown. The object of these analyses has been to determine the 
proportion of nutrient and non-nutrient elements in all foods, and 
by the aid of this knowledge to better our systems of diet. 




10 FOOD PEODtCTS OP THE WORLD, 

• Poods are considered in these articles in a purely objective 
sense and are treated in much the same unpretentious way in which 
they were exhibited at the Fair. Not their properties but the foods 
themselves are classifled; as simply, perhaps unscientifically, as they 
were shown by the exhibitors, ranged in rows upon shelves, placed 
in show cases, hung on hooks or stuffed into bags and boxes. These 
foods are most naturally classifled, therefore, as follows: meats 
(fresh and preserved), poultry and game, fish and sea-foods, butter, 
butterine and cheese, vegetables, cereals (natural and prepared 
forms), sugars, fruits, condiments, and beverages. However, a dis- 
cussion of these foods to be of any value must rest upon a scientific 
classification, one considering their properties. In this way their 
value to the human economy will be more easily considered and the 
treatment of them will be of more practical use than otherwise. By 
such means alone may the relative nutrition of certain foods be es- 
tablished and their value determined. 

Just at this point it may be of interest to compare two or three 
of these classifications of food properties, all valuable, though estab- 
lished on widely differing bases. Dunglison, an accepted medical 
aiuthority, classifies foods, in regard to their properties, as follows: 
(1) Feculaceous or starchy (potato, cereals, legumes); (2) mucilagi- 
nous (carrot, beet, etc.); (3) saccharine (sugar, raisin, etc.); (4) acidu- 
lous (orange, currant, etc.); (5) oleaginous and fatty (cocoa, olive 
and almond oils, animal fat, butter, etc.); (6) caseous (milk, cheese); 
(7) gelatinous (tendon, skin, cellular texture, etc.); (8) albuminous 
(brain, nerve, eggs, etc.); (9) fibrinous (fiesh and blood). Dr. Prout 
siiaplifled this lengthy analysis into four divisions: the aqueous or 
watery, saccharine or sweet, oleaginous or oily, and albuminous, as 
white of egg. liebig still further simplified and changed this, 
dividing foods into two great classes: the nitrogenized or plastic ele- 
ments of nutrition, comprising vegetable fibrin, vegetable albumin, 
vegetable casein, fiesh and blood; and the non-nitrogenized elements, 
or those of respiration, comprising fat, starch, gum, cane sugar, 
grape sugar, sugar of milk, pectin (vegetable jelly), bassorin (a 
starchy substance), wine, beer and spirits. The former class fur- 
nish nutrition to organized tissue, while the latter, Liebig consid- 
ered, are burnt in respiration, furnishing heat. 

The chief point of difference between these and that classifica- 
tion which has finally come to be considered authoritative is the 
recognition of a substance called protein. The existence of this 



FOOD PKODXICTS OF THE WORLD. 11 

substance was for many years disputed. Webster's dictionary of 
1877 says of it: "The theory of Mulder is doubted and denied by 
many chemists, and also the existence of protein as a distinct sub- 
stance;" and a quotation from Gregory, following the definition, 
reads, "The theory of protein cannot be maintained." However, it 
is now recognized as the basic element of animal and vegetable 
fibrin, albumin, casein and gluten. The word itself is derived from 
the Greek verb, meaning "I take first rank;" and is found in the 
lean or muscular part of meat, the white of egg, in cheese, and in 
wheat, in the latter being the gluten which is developed in the 
kneading of dough and which is specially valuable in the manufact- 
ure of macaroni. Protein is also contained in the "stock" used for 
soups, being the gelatinous substance extracted from bone and 
tendon by boiling them. The sugars and starches together, which are 
closely allied in chemical composition, are designated by latest 
authority carbohydrates, so called because they are composed of 
carbon atoms, mingled with a variable proportion of hydrogen and 
oxygen atoms. The most common of these are the granulated sugar 
(seen upon our tables) and the starch used in the kitchen for cookery 
and in the laundry. The granulated sugar belongs to a large group 
called cane-sugars, comprising the products of the sugar-cane, the 
sugar-beet, the sugar-maple, honey, the sugar of milk and a crystal- 
line sugar, obtained from starch, called malt. The sugar of the 
grape and other fruits and that called dextrose, obtained from 
starch (usually com-starch) by the action of warmth and acids, are 
members of the glucose group of carbohydrates. Starch is the 
principal member of the cellulose group, so called because the 
starch granules are contained in a cellular structure (also starchy 
in composition) called cellulose. Gum, a vegetable substance, is 
another of the carbohydrates as is also dextrine, a substance 
obtained from starch by means of dilute acids and which forms the 
basis of an excellent mucilage, "the only kind fit for an editor's 
desk." The oils and fats form another group and the properties 
remaining are water and mineral matters. Of the latter, phosphate 
of lime and chloride of sodium, as our common salt is known chem- 
ically, are the most important. 

The following table is in a convenient form for reference and 
may be considered authoritative until modified, as all former ones 
have been, by subsequent discoveries. It is based upon the latest 
investigations of science, notably those made at various experi- 



12 FOOD PRODUCTS OP THE WOBLD. 

mental stations, located in the United States under the auspices of 
the goverameut: 



I. Protein -i 



{Myosin (lean) of meat. 
^S^^fl^lf;'^""'''*"- • 
Gluten of wheat, peas, beans, etc. 

nM^+jv-^s/io 5 Ossein (tissue) of bone. 
Oelatmoids | QoVLagen (glutinous basis) of tendon. 



IL CABBOH'SrDBATES 



Cane-sugar 
group 



Meat extractives. 

'Sugar beet. 
Sucrose Sugar maple, 
or -< Date-palm, 

cane-sugar Sorghum, 

l^ Honey, etc. 
Lactose or milk-sugar, contain- 
ing galactose. 
Maltose or malt-sugar. 

mnnnHB ( Dextrose or grape sugar. 
Wnirn 1 Levulose or fruit sugar, 
group ^ Galactose or milk sugar. 

i Starch. 
Dextrine (obtained from starch). 
Gum. 
Cellulose or woody fibre of plants. 

C Fats of meat. 
III. Pats \ Oils of milk, butter, olive, nuts, vegetables (wheat, cot 
( ton seed, etc.). 



IV. Minerals 



V. Water. 



( Chloride of sodium (salt). 

\ Calcium phosphate (phosphate of lime) and others. 



The analysis given is self-explanatory and indicates at a glance 
the properties of all those food substaiices which make for the health 
and activity of the human system. Those possessing protein as a 
basic element are useful in restoring the wastes of the system and 
forming the basis of muscular and skin tissue. The fats and carbo- 
hydrates (sugars and starches) furnish heat and a certain amount 
of energy, and if more are taken into the system than are daily con- 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 13 

sumed, the surplus passes off as waste material, or may be stored 
up ia the body for future use. This takes the form of fatty tissue, 
also of a starchy substance called glycogen, stored up in the liver. 

While both water and mineral matters, particularly salt and 
phosphate of lime, are necessary to insure a healthy condition of the 
system, they are not, strictly speaMng, nutritious. 

During the last score of years there has been a widespread 
and growing interest in the production and proper using of foods. 
This has come in some degree from the fact that science, in ascer- 
taining the properties of food, has demonstrated its aggravated mis- 
use and waste by the average community of people. The question 
of better facilities for food production was a serious one at the 
time of the creation of the Department of Agriculture at Washing- 
ton in 1862. Later, experimental stations have been established in 
various states, the inspection of milk and certain kinds of meat has 
been in many states compelled by law, and special legislation is 
being made from year to year in reference to imitations and adulter- 
ations. Our supplies of fish and game, which were in danger of 
being exterminated, are now protected at certain seasons by law 
and in many ways legislation, a very great assistance to any line of 
reform, has proved a most efficient stimulus to agricultural interest. 
An understanding of the proper use of food materials is coming to 
be considered an educational branch of no small importance, and, 
in fact, if matters continue as they have begun, the study of food is 
in danger of becoming a fad. What was accomplished in Germany 
at the beginning of this century by Benjamin Thompson (Count 
Rumf ord) in securing a better diet at no greater cost for the men of 
the Bavarian army, is now being accomplished in America for our 
army of poor, and in the way of lunches for our army of shop-girls, 
clerks and students. The soup-Mtcbens established in all our 
great cities, the cooking classes for the instruction of both rich and 
poor, indicate a slow gravitation toward more hygienic methods of 
living. All these influences are proving to an extravagant nation 
that hygienic and palatable food is usually far from costly, and that 
fifteen cents, reinforced by brains, may provide a better meal than 
ten times that amount otherwise. 

No lesson should be more quickly learned by American people 
than economy in the use of agricultural products and no time was 
more appropriate for the learning of it than the period of the World's 
Columbian Exposition. In our United States food products .are so 



14 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



profuse and cheap that wastefuhiess is a temptation. Most foreign 
nations consider our food waste greatly to our discredit and their 
: chief message to us is one of thrift. We have taught them better < 
methods in the production and cultivation of foods, and it is hard 
to tell which lesson was more needed. As one remembers the wooden 
plows, the clumsy and immense tools of iron exhibited at the Pair 
from Siam, Johore, even from many European countries and our 
own Mexico, then considers the wretched social condition about us, 
the reckless waste of a cheap and bountiful food supply by the 
ignorant classes and their corresponding periods of suffering, it 
seems as if the best cure for both conditions were a world-compari- 
son of agricultural products and methods. Just such a comparison 
was made possible by the exhibits gathered under the roof of the 
Agricultural building during the Columbian Exposition. Not until 
deductions are made, not until their lessons are learned by all 
nations, may the triumphal arch of universal brotherhood be reared 
upon other than an infirm foundation. 



CHAPTER m. 




MEATS. 



N ANCIENT ballad of Merrie Eng- 
land declares to us that all Britons 
are infallible as long as fed on beef. 
Whether the baUad was made to fit 
a still more ancient cnstom, as with 
many of the Roman legends, or 
■ whether the practice of beef -eating gave rise to 
the ballad, there is no means of ascertaining; but 
it is no more true of England than of most other 
nations that their feast songs were always of meat 
and their drinking songs of wine. Wine flowed 
freely at the tables in historic days, and vegetables, now so import- 
ant a part of a meal, were then but a few, poor notes in the song of 
a classic feast. The boar's head was decked with holly, never the 
potato, and the sirloin of beef is still regarded in England with all 
the homage due to a thing of noble lineage. Even the pumpkin of 
to-day, glorious in the richness and molten gold of its surface, 
gathered from summer skies as it lay like Danae beneath them; 
even that takes rank inferior to our strutting, gobbling, national 
bird, the turkey. One author says: "There is a peerage of meats. 
It inclades the princely venison, the cardinal ham, the baron of 



16 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

beef, aud the knightly sirloin. Every canvas-back duck is a duke, 
and each saddle of mutton a marquis." 

Here is Dean Swift's description of what constituted an aristo- 
cratic mid-day dinner of Old England: "Oysters, a Sir Lyon of beef, 
a shoulder of veal, then flsh which were to be dressed with claret, 
tongue, pigeons, cowcumbers, fritters, almond pudding and soup. 
After the soup was removed, venison, pasty black pudding, hare and 
goose." Small wonder that viands in those days had to be "spiced 
to the brink" that they might tempt a satiated appetite; small 
wonder that gout and apoplexy were common disorders among the 
well-to-do classes, for it was accounted nothing strange that even 
good Queen Anne should die of the latter disease. 

During the epoch of the Roman republic, peacocks occupied the 
place of the modem sirloin, and in the middle ages the coarse meat 
of this bird, far from agreeable to the modern epicure, was consid- 
ered a luxury and served with great ponp. The costliness of these 
birds sufficed to immortalize the extravagance of both Vitellius and 
HeUogabalus, who served dishes composed of their tongues and 
brains. 

Certain it is that from the time primitive man pulled his first 
mollusk from the water and ate it raw — from that later time when 
he captured the cave bear and boiled its shoulders in a clay pot of 
his own making — down to the gastronomic luxuries of a Careme 
or a Francatelli, the important article of diet has been meat. 
Whether the flsh and larvae of the native Australians, the horse- 
flesh of the Pampas Indians, the reindeer meat of the Laps, the 
buffalo meat of the North American Indians, or the juicy cut of 
beef served in a Delmonloo restaurant, man's meal-time enjoyment, 
be he civilized or uncivilized, wise or unwise, largely depends upon 
meat. It is eaten by the people of tropical countries as well as by 
the Siberians and Icelanders, and, generally speaking, those classes 
which do not consume meat are prevented from so doing either by 
its scarcity or because of religious or moral belief. There has been 
an attempt made, I believe, to demonstrate the theory that only 
those nations whose diet is a mixed one, including meats, ever do 
valuable service in science or invention. However that may be, it 
is certainly true that the hest^physical condition is maintained on a 
mixed diet of which about one-fourth per cent consists of meat. 

There is a large class of people to-day who, under the banner of 
vegetarianism, discard the use of flesh foods. But, with the excep- 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 17 

tion of the absolutely strict vegetarians, they consume large quanti- 
ties of very concentrated forms of animal food, namely, milk, cheese 
and eggs, so characterized by the nitrogenous elements or protein 
which they contain in abundance. That the theories advocated by 
the vegetarians are worthy of consideration was proven by the gen- 
eral interest in the "Vegetarian Congress held in Chicago during the 
summer of 1893. But their position seems to be rather a protest 
against the inhumanity of our slaughter pens than against meat 
per se. The latest investigations of dietetic science demonstrate 
that the human system cannot be maintained in a state of perfect 
health on a purely vegetable diet. A glance at the preceding tabu- 
lation of the properties of food shows that the tissue-building sub- 
stance or protein is confined almost wholly to animal foods. There 
is a variable but small proportion found in vegetables, especially in 
the cereals and legumes, but the amount is so small in these, in 
proportion to the amount of fats and carbohydrates (sugars and 
starches) as to be inadequate. Another fact has been demonstrated, 
both by Professor Atwater and certain German scientists, which is 
that the tissue-building substance or protein of meat is more digest- 
ible than that of vegetables. It has been proven by a careful ex- 
periments that, of the protein contained in beef and other meats, 
the entire amount taken into the system is assimilated by it; while 
in the case of vegetables, even considering those richest in protein, 
beans, peas, oat-meal and cracked wheat, one-third and often more 
remains undigested^ On account of this variation, any classification 
of foods in regard to the amount of nutrim^ent which they actually 
contain without considering the ability of the system to assimilate 
them is faulty. For, in a diet composed of even those vegetables 
richest in tissue-building material, the system is put to great waste 
of energy in eliminating the undigested protein as well as the unas- 
similated surplus of fats and carbohydrates. H. Newell Martin, 
professor of biology in Johns Hopkins University, says: "The 
strict vegetarians who do not employ even such substances as eggs, 
cheese and milk, but confine themselves to a purely vegetable diet 
(such as is always poor in proteids), daily take far more carbon than 
they require, and are to be congratulated on their excellent digest- 
ions which are able to stand the strain. Those who use eggs, cheese, 
etc., can, of course, get on very well, since such substances are ex- 
tremely rich in proteids, and supply the nitrogen needed without 
the necessity of swallowing the vast bulk of food which must be 



18 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



eaten in order to get it from the plant directly." On the other 
hand, it is true that too much meat is consumed, generally speaking, 
by the well-to-do classes, and the vegetarian doctrine is doing valu- 
able service in favor of a more hygienic system of diet. The happy 
medium between the two extremes is reached as yet by only a small 
proportion of people. 

Animal foods may be divided into three classes: meats, eggs, 
and milk in its various forms, such as butter and cheese. Meats 
are the flesh products of various domestic animals, giving us beef, 
veal, mutton and pork; of poultry, of wild game and fowl, of fish, 
shell-flsh, turtle and other sea-foods. The meats which we consume 
most largely come from our own domestic animals; they, the most 
consistent vegetarians of all. The sustenance they derive from the 
vegetable kingdom, has many elements in common with the ele- 
ments of their own composition for we recognize both animal and 
vegetable protein, though widely differing in its proportion to the 
other elements. At one time it was believed that each element of 
animal flesh came to it in the same form directly from the vegetable 

kingdom. Liebig, h o w- 
ever, determined that the 
animal world had ability 
to transform one kind of 
organic substance into an- 
other and that this was 
done in the conversion of 
vegetable substance into 
animal tissue. It is unnecessary 
to pursue this reasoning further 
than to state that the organic mat- 
ter of the animal world has its 
source in the organic matter of the vegetable 
world, and that vegetable food is converted by 
the animal's processes of digestion into the 
complex tissue known as meat. For the reason, therefore, that the 
animal saves mankind a large amount of the labor of convert- 
ing vegetable into animal tissue, meat is a highly digestible food. 
When waste of human energy and of undigested portions are con- 
sidered in the case of man, meat is an economical portion of diet as 
well. The principal meat both in England and our own country is 
beef, and the fresh meat exhibited at the World's Columbian Expo- 




FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 19 

sition, though limited in quantity, illustrated all the characteristics 
of the best. 

Beef is in best condition when the animal is from four to five 
years of age, preferably grass-fattened. Stall-fed animals contain a 
surplus of fat which, as has already been noticed, is not agreeable 
nor useful as a food beyond a certain limit. While the prize fat oxen 
and prime Christmas beeves are very good to look upon they are 
usually far from becoming an economical food, so much of the fat 
being unused, or, if eaten, unassimilated. Beef should be firm and 
dry, presenting some resistance to the touch. A juicy or flabby 
condition of raw meat indicates unhealthiness of the animal. The 
color should be a bright red, neither pale nor of a purplish hue, the 
latter condition indicating that the meat was bruised, not well bled 
or that the animal was diseased. There should be no odor except- 
ing a pleasant one. The best meat is marbled, with firm light 
streaks of fat running through the muscular tissue. Deep yellow 
fat generally indicates age, or the use of a certain kind of food given 
for the purpose of fattening. 

Veal is younger beef, but a more expensive and less nutritious 
meat. The calf is usually slaughtered when from six weeks to nine 
months old. Dr. Edward Smith is authority for the statement that in 
England calves are killed when under one month old, beiag consid- 
ered very choice eating. This was prohibited in Boston in 1855 and 
is not done now in America unless stealthily. Veal, like the meat 
of all young animals, such as lamb and sucking pig, is not digested 
easUy on account of the tenacity of its fibres, rendering it difficult 
of mastication. It is highly gelatinous containing, however, not 
a large proportion of protein. 

Mutton, by most persons, is considered of agreeable flavor and 
requires but mention as it is almost uniformly good in all markets. 
The best is grain and grass-fattened and is less liable to disease than 
either beef or pork. However, it is less suitable for persons of very 
active life than beef. 

Pork is the one condemned meat and has received more abuse, 
just and unjust, than has ever been heaped upon any other one 
food, partly due to the religious prejudice by the Jews and Moham- 
medans against the use of it. Certain foreign countries have legis- 
lated against the importation of it, particularly that exported from 
America, and this has had a salutary effect upon the industry. 
However, it js probable that it was oft^B eoademaed unjustly, and 
$ 



20 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

our American pork is, in general, quite as free from disease as tiie 
product of any other country. Inspection of it before exportation 
is now compelled by law in tlie large cities of America, both pork 
and other meat being subjected to examination by microsoopists. 
Swine that are kept about slaughter-houses and fed upon ofEal, as 
is done in many of the small towns, are wholly unfit for food, and 
pork from such sources ought to be condemned; but the meat of 
corn-fed hogs from the western prairies is probably as untainted as 
beef. 

Pork is not health-giving when eaten exclusively or in large 
quantities, as it is not as nutritious as other meat. It contains but 
a small proportion of protein — less than one per cent in very fat 
pork (Atwater), and a far larger proportion of fats than the system 
can relish or digest. However, it excels all other meats in the facility 
with which it can be preserved by salting or drying and the finely 
cured portions are considered quite delicious when properly cooked. 
Swinton tells us that a favorite meat of the old Bomans was young 
pork. JBacqn is coming to be advocated by dietetists as a valuable 
food for young children and for invalids. It is both appetizing and 
easy of digestion and can be taken when such foods as veal, pork in 
other forms or even new potatoes, could not be digested. \ 

These meats were exhibited at the exposition, but, owing to the 
diflBculty and great expense of shipping a long distance, they were 
exhibited in a fresh state only by the American packing-houses. It 
was a source of regret that foreign countries were unrepresented in 
this respect, but there is no reason to suppose that America would 
have suffered by any comparison. The exhibit was not large and 
was contained in one immense refrigerator car, through the glass 
sides of which could be seen splendid prime beef, hung in quarters; 
also veal, pork and mutton. Pipes within the car, covered thickly 
with hoar frost, showed the air to be cold, untainted and dry. The 
meat was thus kept through the hot summer months almost as fresh 
as when first placed on exhibition. 

The method of taking care of meats so that, when prepared, 
they may be put on the market in their most attractive, cleanly and 
healthful form, has been scientifically studied by the great packing- 
houses of America, notably those of Armour, Swift, Cudahy, Libby, 
McNeill and Libby, North Packing company. Nelson Morris and a 
few others. 

It is universally conceded that such meat is far more healthful, 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



21 



iu general, than that prepared in small cities and towns. Such an 
industry naturally is and rightfully should be carried on in large 
headquarters, and it were far better, so far as health is concerned, 
did the dwellers in coxmtry districts depend more largely upon 
them for their meat supply. Every operation in a large packing- 
house is based upon some scientific reason and is conducted with 
great cleanliness and perfection of system. Meat slaughtered after the 
Jewish custom, the requirements for which date back to the Mosaic 
law, is regarded by many as superior to that of Ihe ordinary mark- 
ets. Though the great packing-houses adopt a method far more 
humane, their care, system and cleanliness are even greater. Such 
system, reinforced by the microscopic inspection regularly carried on 
in every such house, renders their products thoroughly excellent. 
More than any other institution they are responding to the de- 
mands of the people for wholesome food in a way in which Americans 
may justly take pride. 




CHAPTER IV. 




PRESERVATION OF, MEAT BY DRYING. 



^HEBE is a quality inherent in all 
food which under natural conditions 
renders it changeable and perish- 
able. The properties of aU aliment- 
ary substances are susceptible of 
change. The atmosphere which sur- 
rounds us comes in contact with 
every substance; unless removed or 
excluded, as when in a vacuum, 
through the agency of unnatural 
means. It contains germs which are 
always active, paying "with eternal 
vigilance" the price of their victories, 
and whose mission is the destruction 
of aU organic substances. These are 
the active causes of the change known as decomposition. To pre- 
vent such change, various means have been devised for keeping 
food from putrefaction and in a wholesome condition. These 
methods are known as drying, salting, chilling, heating, canning, 
coating with gelatine or fat for the exclusion of air, and the use of 
chemicals. 

Drying was undoubtedly the first method used for keeping meat 



24 FOOD PKODUOTS OF THE WOKLD. 

in a wholesome state, and was practiced in pre-historic times by the 
earliest races of mankind. After returning from the chase and par- 
taking of a feast, precursor of the modern "game dinner," satiated 
man pondered while he digested. Without a doubt he earnestly de- 
sired to preserve the unused game from decay that he might have 
sufficient for periods of famine, inclement weather or when on the 
long marches customary with nomadic peoples. His perceptive 
faculties were at that time sufficiently acute to perceive that meat, 
cooked, was longer preserved than meat in a raw state. Thus the 
earliest method of preserving meat is known to have been by slowly 
drying it over a fire, either upon sticks or upon frames made from 
the twigs of trees. By this slow method of heating and drying, the 
non-nutrient juices of the meat were evaporated. The product 
of such a method-is to-day called "jerked meat." If this meat, after 
being dried, is pounded until dessicated it is called pemican or 
pemmican. In some of the South American states it is called 
charqui and in Uruguay and Nicaragua, tasajo. Meat still con- 
tinues to be dried in this primitive way in nearly all countries; not, 
however, by the most progressive classes. In America, drsdng is 
effected chiefly by heat alone, thpugh often aided by the sunshine 
and air. Drying wholly by the action of the air is a tedious process 
and in most places cannot be satisfactorily done, owing to the 
moisture of the atmosphere. When heat is used, great care must 
be exercised or the flavor of the meat will be destroyed. 

Meat dried is in its most nutritious, form for preservation. Only 
the water is evaporated, all of the nutriment being retained. It is 
estimated that one pound of dried meat contains as much nutriment 
as about four times that weight of fresh meat, so greatly has drying 
reduced its weight and bulk. This method is the one chiefly used 
in warm climates, because no other simple process ensures safe 
preservation, and because both nutritive value and flavor of the 
meat are retained. 

Thus far the only scientific objection made to the use of meat 
preserved in this way is that it is not sufficiently cooked to destroy 
larviJB or germs of disease which may exist. The flesh of wild ani- 
mals is much less liable to be infected with these discoveries of civ- 
ilization than that of the domesticated species. A lower caste Bud- 
dhist, it is said, once broke in pieces the microscope which revealed 
to him living organisms in the water and vegetables of his daily 
food because his religion forbade the destruction of even the lowest 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 25 

forms of life. Through the same ignorance, before the days of 
chemistry and the microscope, all meat was considered healthful by 
English speaking people, but though our laboratories have discov- 
ered germs to us, we cannot believe that they could be annihilated 
by the destruction of our microscopes. In that respect, the East 
Indian has the advantage of us. 

The native races of America brought many specimens of dried 
meat to the World's Columbian Exposition. One specially interest- 
ing exhibit was placed in the Anthropological building and consisted 
of a complete collection of Indian foods, gathered by the chief of 
the Nez Perce tribe. Miss Alice Fletcher, a recognized authority, 
told me that this collection was undoubtedly the most complete and 
interesting ever made by the native, uncivilized American. There 
wore exhibited wild vegetables, fruits and berries, part of them des- 
sicated and combined with wild potato meal into cakes. The meat 
was their favorite kind from the elk and bison, and was prepared in 
the usual way, pemican. Longfellow, in his poem of Hiawatha, de- 
scribes a typical Indian feast in the following words, the mondamin 
referred to being Indian corn: 

" Then on pemican tliey leasted, 

Pemican and buflalo marrow, 

Haunch of deer and hump of bison, 

Yellow cakes of the Mondamin 

And the wild rice of the river." 

Catlin, whose large collection of portraits of the North American 
Indians comprised part of the Smithsonian exhibit at the exposition, 
frequently refers, in his "History of the North American Indians," 
to their pemican or dried and pounded buffalo meat. This they mix 
with equal parts of fat and pack in bladders which are usually dried 
and then buried in the ground, the primitive store-room and treas- 
ure-house for preserving meat from hostile tribes. 

Mexico, Siam and Uruguay exhibited dried meats. That from 
Mexico, known as jerked meat, showed a very crude method of dry- 
ing; but it is a food article of great value to the people and, owing 
to their warm climate, is a satisfactory way of preserving it. The 
largest exhibit of dried meat came from Uruguay, the direct product 
of the saladeros or killing grounds. These are situated along the 
coasts and rivers of that country and correspond to our packing 
houses. The vast herds of cattle, which range over the plains of 
South America, were formerly considered valuable only for their 
hides. More recently, their meat has been dried and the product is 



S6 FOOD PKObUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

called tasajo. In preparing the meat for drying, the great sides of 
the carcasses are entirely divested of bones and fat, and the meat is 
placed upon frames in the sun. It is frequently "turned and, owing 
to a dry atmosphere, it is possible to complete the process without 
the use of salt. This tasajo is an unattractive food, as it is bleached 
by the sun until colorless, somewhat resembling dried codflsh^^ 
Three grades of quality are made, one entirely without salt, which is 
use3'at home; a second grade, slightly salted, which is sent into the 
interior of South America; and a third, very salt, which is exported 
to Jamaica and the West Indies. The tascyo exhibited at the expo- 
sition was put up in canvas-covered packages, about two feet square 
and about fifty pounds in weight per package. When taken out the 
meat was unfolded much as a hide of leather would be straightened, 
but it was quite palatable and not unlike, in flavor, our own dried 
beef. The commissioner, Senor Murgiondo, told me that this meat 
was an important factor in the revenue of Uruguay. There were 
also exhibited several kinds of tasajo, pulverized, of value as food 
for invalids. This, combined with an equal quantity of chocolate. 




is made into lozenges and bonbons, and was also displayed in the 
form of a powder for use with hot water as a beverage. These prep- 
arations were all agreeable to the taste and, forming one of the 
most concentrated and nutritious foods, merit special mention from 
a dietetic standpoint. 

Siam exhibited specimens of the dried meat commonly used in 



FOOD PEODUCTS OP THE WOBLD. 27 

that country, which was no less interesting than the South Amer- 
ican product. This meat is dried wholly without salt, then pounded 
and shredded by hand with a knife to the finest possible degree. 
This shredding is all done by women, after the drying and bleaching 
process of the sun is completed. There were at the exposition 
about two dozen specimens of shredded meat and fish from Siam, 
put up in glass jars, all of it having much the appearance of fine 
excelsior. It was of good flavor and quite appetizing, though from 
its appearance it was impossible to distinguish fish from meat. I 
marvelled at the time and labor involved in such preparation and 
asked the commissioner if all meat were thus prepared in Siam. 
"O, yes," he replied, "the women prepare it all. They have plenty 
of time and nothing else to do." And so, in far away Siam, these 
patient little women sit day after day, knife in hand, shredding 
meat, happy, it may be, in a fashion all their own. These cans of 
shredded meat told volumes about the Siamese, and on every page 
was written patience, industry and care. The meats exhibited were 
beef, pork, chicken, veal and duck beside a large assortment of fish, 
cuttle-fish, squid and shrimp. 

Nearly every packing bouse in America which was represented 
at the exposition displayed samples of dried beef, and it was fully as 
characteristic and interesting as that from other countries. It is 
not, however, as rich in nutriment, much having been lost in 
preparation by salting before drying. It is dark and of a red color, 
owing to the use of saltpetre in the brine, and also because it is 
dried in the shade. The salt and saltpetre, used in curing, add to 
its keeping qualities but detract from its nutritive value, as the en- 
tire juices of the meat are not retained. Our dried beef is far more 
marketable than any from other countries and represents an im- 
mense industry. This is because of its better appearance, although 
a method which does not retain the entire nutritive substance can- 
not be considered perfect. Chipped dried beef is deservedly popu- 
lar and when put up in cans, as is done in many packing houses, 
may be preserved indefinitely. 

Dried sausages, or as they are better known, "summer sausages,'' 
are the rock upon which epicureans and the common clan split. 
There is never a half heartedness in the way in which summer 
sausages are regarded. They are either liked desperately and with 
conviction of their innate piquancy and superiority or they are as un- 
qualifiedly despised. I think a motto must have hung in every sau- 



28 FOOD FEODaCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

sage-maker's shop over three continents while the summer sausages 
at the exposition were being made, and this was it: "Who peppers 
the highest is sure to please.'' There were exhibited summer sau- 
sages from many foreign lands, rivals of our own in their fragrant 
endeavor to win a coveted medal. These are great favorites with 
many persons and, while they are not required for the proper serv- 
ing of any meal, still they are the very particular bonne bouche for 
a lunch, and disciples of the Fatherland can no more reverently en- 
shrine them than upon the side-board, flanked with cheese and 
beer. Just what becomes of the enormous quantities made and 
marketed I doubt if any woman will ever discover. There are a few 
things, good and bad, which men have from time immemorial ap- 
propriated to themselves, and among them are summer sausages. 
Perhaps this is because, as an admirer said, they "leave a pleasant 
taste in the mouth." 

The making of summer sausages requires much skill, not only 
in selecting and proportioning the meat but in the seasoning as 
well. For there are spices of all sorts and savors, pepper, salt, garlic 
and minced herbs. Bach house seasons its summer sausages differ- 
ently for they are made to suit the taste of the maker, or the de- 
mands of a particular locality. No meat at the exposition seemed 
so capricious in flavor, quality and general appearance as the sum- 
mer sausages. After being made and stuffed into casings, they are 
hung for a few months until properly cured. As they are usually 
made in winter they are dry and well cured by summer time and 
hence their name. I learned that there is an art in sausage mak- 
ing and that there are secrets as well, guarded as sacredly as the 
porcelain maker guards the secrets of his clay. There is real in- 
spiration in the pride of a sausage maker over his products. Decked 
in cap and white apron and armed with a long, sharp knife, he deftly 
cuts the sausage in twain. He holds it before an admiring gaze, 
then brings it nearer that we may cfitch its ripened fragrance. 

At one of the American exhibits the artist in sausages was a 
German, whose duty it was to display the goods at their best ad- 
vantage. As he cut sausage after sausage a smile of satisfaction 
passed over his countenance. Did he not come from the land of 
sausages? Was he not confident that no product excelled his own? 
Did he not know that every sausage was a masterpiece of its kind? 
And be tempted us to taste again and again and just once more 
until a score of varieties in all their mottled color and fragrance of 



FOOD PROUUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



29 



herbs and spices lay before us. No longer shall Prance, Germany, 
Italy and Spain appropriate the laurels of marjoram, thyme and 
garlic. America has taken a conspicuous place at their side, for tie 
excellence of flavor, variety and attractiveness of her summer 
sausages. There were numerous varieties from Mexico, Argentine 
Republic, Brazil, Uruguay, Germany, England, Prance, Italy and 
Spain. Italy distinguished herself by having the largest sausage 
exhibited, weighing fifty pounds. On Italy's day at the great expo- 
sition there was feasting and rejoicing and this mammoth sausage, 
called "Mortedella," was both host and banquet on that occasion. 
Just one year before, that sausage was made across the water, in- 
tended to become a fatherland greeting to the sons and daughters 
of Italy planted upon American soil. A deft carver, appareled in 
whitest linen and armed with keenest of knives, sliced pieces for 
each of the crowd that on that day passed through Italy's pavilion. 
Each stopped long enough to wash down the morsel with wine from, 
his native land of sunshine and little wonder that their cry was 
"Vive I'ltalia!" 

Uruguay preserved her exhibit of summ.er sausages with special 
care. They were large in size, well made, rolled in tin-foil and in- 
closed in individual tin tubes. 

Spain was very proud of the giant sausage of her exhibit, nearly 
seven feet in length. Around it smaller ones were hanging, all sus- 
pended by the national colors of yellow and red. The exhibits made 
by all countries were interesting and paid something very like 
homage to this article called a summer sausage. Its forerunner was 
the pemican of the Indian and, such pranks have the extravagant 
flavorings of civilization played with it, soon it may be entitled to a 
place among condiments. 




CHAPTER V. 



PKESERVATION OF MEATS BY SALTING AND CDHINQ. 




ALT is the common name for chloride 
of sodium and occurs in nearly all 
forms of nature, in the vegetable and 
animal as well as in the mineral king- 
doms. It is in most cases found depos- 
ited in the earth in the form of rook- 
salt and is procured hj mining. Salt 
also exists in solution both in ocean 
waters and in saline springs, from 
which it is obtained by evaporation. It 
is held in suspension in the atmosphere 
and all animal and vegetable substances 
have it in varying proportions in their 
tissues. Salt is abundant in the secre- 
tions of the human body and in the 
blood, of which latter substance it is 
the natural antiseptic. It aids in the 
absorption of food and holds in solu- 
tion the fibrin and albumin of the blood. In the material world 
its uses are manifold, it being the basis of all glass and soap manu- 
facture and valued as an agent in the composition of certain disin- 
fectants. The use of salt as a fertilizer dates back to the ancient 
customs of China and Hindostan, and throughout all ages its value 
to the human system has been known. One of the ancients called 
salt a substance "divine;" others declared it acceptable to the gods. 
History tells us that salt was first used as a fiavoring for meat 
among the Fhcenicians, and we also know that the Koman soldiers 
pf » }ater time, who served th^ir lan(} for ?t small sum, received part 



32 FOOD PKODTJCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

of their wages in salt, so valuable was the substance at that tiiney 
Prom this custom is derived the word salary. Some idea of the 
esteem in which salt was held may be gained from the fact that it 
was once the custom to deprive prisoners of it; but when this depri- 
vation was found detrimental to health it was discontinued. 

The action of salt upon fresh, raw meat is to partially extract 
the water or juices. These juices hold the albumin and salts of the 
meat tissue in solution. Salt also absorbs heat and lowers the tem- 
perature of anjrthing with which it comes in contact so that its gen- 
eral effect is to cause meat to become tough and to lessen its nutri- 
tive value. Liebig estimates that the nutritive value of meat so 
treated is diminished one-third, often one-half, both because of the 
juices extracted and because the toughening renders it difficult of 
digestion. A considerable portion of the nutriment is held in solu- 
tion in the brine, from which it cannot be extracted for use as food; 
and it is a common saying among rural people that every pailful of 
old brine is worth a dollar. This is because old brine is so filled 
with the extracted juices of the meat first placed in it that any 
cured in it afterward loses a far smaller per cent of nutriment. For 
this reason brine is saved by farmers and those who salt their own 
meat and, after scalding, is used again and again. Salt prevents 
the development of germs in meat impregnated with it and may pre- 
serve it for an indefinite time. 

The methods now used in preserving meats by salting are (1) im- 
mersion of the meat in a solution of salt, known as brine; (2) by 
packing in dry salt which, by the extraction of the juices of the 
meat, soon becomes dissolved and penetrates the tissues; (3) by rub- 
bing dry salt into the meat, a method known as "dry curing;" (4) by 
using salt sparingly and completing the preservation by drying and 
smoking. Saltpfitrev also a mineral product, is usually combined 
in small quantities with the salt and helps to retain the red color of 
the muscular tissue. It possesses antiseptic qualities as well but is 
chiefly used for keeping the meat in good color, this giving it 
greater commercial value. Soda is often used with salt and salt- 
petre, its tendency being to overcome the hardening and toughen- 
ing which salt causes. The antiseptic properties of borax render it 
also valuable. The latter substances are detrimental to health if 
used for any length of time, even in minute quantities, and it is de- 
sirable that substances equally valuable as preservatives but with- 
out their injurious properties may be found. Sugar is also used to 



FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 33 

some extent, particularly in the milder method of curing, known as 
pickling. 

Beef, when intended for home use and not for exportation, is 
usually preserved in a pickle containing salt, salt-petre, sugar and 
such spices as give it the most desirable flavor. Shoulders, hams, 
bacon and tongue are cured for the American markets with as little 
salt as is necessary to ensure their preservation. Each packing- 
house, whether of America or Europe, tries to out-do the other in 
placing its cured meats on the market in the most palatable and at- 
tractive form. Not infrequently the quality of a single kind of 
cured meat, such as ham or bacon, establishes the reputation of its 
house for excellent meats in general. 

At the exposition, the display of salted, cured and pickled meats 
comprised hams, shoulders, bacon, and pork in all its cuts, known 
commercially as clear pork, mess pork, backs, lean ends, etc. All 
these from American houses were exhibited barreled as if ready 
for shipment, with the single difEerence of having glass heads upon 
the barrels through which the exhibits could be seen. The exhibit 
of cured beef was also placed in the regulation barrels, displaying 
aU the marketable cuts, brisket, ribs, navels, plates, and a fat extra 

cut which is put up expressly for 
the markets of India. Tongues 
were shown by the barrel and 
half barrel, a wealth of that deli- 
»cious lunch meat, and all, excel- 
lent in color, showed care and 
sldll both in selection and cut. 
The dry-cured sides of pork were 
British Guiana Cooking Vessels. packed in salt in square boxes, 
ready for shipment. Each box contained one hundred pounds of 
pork. To what extent America is endeavoring to capture foreign 
trade was shown very plainly at the exposition by the names given 
to various cuts of meat. The dry cured pork was variously desig- 
nated as Cumberland cut, Yorkshire sides, Birmingham sides. South 
Staffordshire sides and Wiltshire sides. In the hams there were 
Staffordshire, Manchester, Boston and New York cuts, while the 
California and Picnic hams were so nicely cut and trimmed that 
one would hardly have believed them to be only shoulders, after all. 
These cured shoulders are desirable for home use in the way of 
lunches as they contain but little fat, much of which is wasted iu 




34 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

the ordinary ham. As nearly as can be ascertained, the honor of 
introducing this method of curing shoulders, providing an appetiz- 
ing meat at a low cost, belongs to the packing-houses of the United 
States, the only country which exhibited them. Some comprehen- 
sion of the importance of the American industry in salted and cured 
meats may be gained from the following ofScial report for the fiscal 
year of 1892 to 1893. The American exports of bacon amounted to 
397,000,000 pounds; ham, 82,000,000 pounds; salt pork, 53,000,000 
nounds; and of salted beef, 58,000,000 pounds. 

The salted and cured meats coming from other countries did 
not compare favorably with those exhibited by the American houses, 
and only dry-cured meats were sent. The foreign countries exhibit- 
ing these were Argentine Republic, Brazil, Mexico, Italy, Belgium, 
France, England and Canada. Much of the foreign meats of this 
class were injured by exposure on ship-board, through delay in 
reaching Chicago and in being placed in the buildings. The 
methods of curing and styles of cut differed somewhat from those 
used in America and, in awarding medals, both American and for- 
eign judges considered all these differences of standard. The hams 
sent from abroad were in most cases cut square at the base instead 
of round, and the shanks were cut very long. They were not pol- 
ished as hams are in America where competition forces the packing- 
houses to put goods on the market in an attractive form, and where 
hams and shoulders are as rich in color and texture of surface as 
light mahogany. Neither were they as closely trimmed, perhaps 
because that would mean waste, although in America such trim- 
mings are used for potted meats. 

Meat is preserved by salt in all countries and in many different 
ways. It is rendered particularly appetizing when smoked after be- 
ing mildly cured or salted and such treatment renders it thoroughly 
wholesome. There is little more to be desired, excepting that some 
method may be found by which chemicals, injurious even in the 
slightest degree, will not be used, and a method, as well, whereby a 
greater proportion of nutriment may be retained. 



CHAPTER VI. 



PEESEBVINQ OF MEAT BT CANNING, COOKING, FKEEZING, USE OF 
CHEMICALS AND OTHEK METHODS. 




lEBIG says: "The property of organic 
substances to pass into a state of ferment- 
ation and decay in contact with atmos- 
pheric air, and in consequence to trans- 
mit these states of change to other organic 
substances, is annihilated in all cases with- 
out exception by heating to the boiling 
point." As is well known, heat is a com- 
mon means of preserving alimentary sub- 
stances and is unfailing in its effects. 
Pood undergoes but little change in being 
heated to the boiling point and, if afterwards protected from the 
atmosphere, may be preserved indefinitely. The advantage of using 
heat as a preservative was first made known by M. Appert of France, 
in 18M|i^lthough it is claimed that the same method of preserving 
must have been known to the inhabitants of Pompeii, as sealed jars 
containing figs in a perfect condition have been found in the exca- 
vated ruins. Appert succeeded in preserving in glass jars meats, 
vegetables and fruits and for this important discovery the govern- 
ment of France gave^ him 12,000 francs. One year later de Heine, 
then in England, patented a process by which he claimed that food 
could be preserved by completely exhausting the air with an air 
pump. All attempts, however, were unsuccessful until the process 
patented by Wertheimer in 1839 came to be used. This provided 
that the food to be preserved should be placed in tin or metal cans, 
the interstices being filled with water, juices or other fluid, and the 
lid to be securely soldered upon the can. The cans were to be then 
set in water and boiled, the air being expelled through small holes 
pierced in the lid. When the food was sufficiently cooked and th« 



36 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

air entirely driven out, the holes were to be filled with solder, com- 
pleting the process. Food thus treated would remain in a perfect 
state almost indefinitely and but little improvement, if any, has 
since been made upon that method. The theory of these men, how- 
ever, differed from that accepted by modern science, although the 
same means were used and the same results obtained. It was orig- 
inally believed that the oxygen contained in air was the destructive 
agency, and that the expulsion of air. alone was sufficient to prevent 
decomposition. Professor Tyndall was the first, I believe, to demon- 
strate that the atmosphere contained living germs, destructive in a 
varying degree, to all substances. Meats, fruits and vegetables may 
thus be preserved by first being heated to the boiling point and 
then being kept from contact with the air. 

This is the process used in all the large canning factories of 
America as well as the countries abroad and is practiced in every 
household in which fruit is preserved. Canneries are scattered all 
over the United States; those of the Atlantic coast preserving meats, 
fish and vegetables, those of Washington and Oregon furnishing 
our tables with choice salmon, while those of California send to us 
the delicious fruit of that state at a nominal cost. Tons of meat 
are daily preserved by this method in the large packing-houses of 
Chicago and the eastern cities, as well-cooked as that of the most 
careful housekeeper. In these canneries one is first impressed with 
the appetizing odor of the cooked meat and then with the cleanliness, 
rapidity and system with which the whole process is carried on. 
Said a friend recently — a housekeeper of more than average ability — 
"1 never tasted canned meat. I insist upon cleanliness in the hand- 
ling of my food and prefer to know where the meat comes from." 

Let us see. This lady lives in a small 
city, the cattle and other meat being 
slaughtered in the suburbs. The quar- 
ters are brought into market in the 
same wagon which carries calve.s, lambs 
• and poultry. The handling and cutting 
of the meat is done by men not over 
neat and often far from skillful; and 
from the shop it is carried home to 
my lady's kitchen. Here again, neither utensils nor help are cleaner 
than in the packing rooms, in fact, not as much so, for in the 
latter place steam, the great purifier, the universal germ destroyer. 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



37 




makes everything cleanly and odorless. Evei-ytliing possible is 
handled by machinery. The animal, after being dressed, hangs 
for forty-eight hours in the chill-room and the meat is cooked, for 
canning, entirely 
by steam in large 
cedar vats. The 
boning o f pigs' 
feet, the selecting 
of pieces for pot- 
ted meats, the 
examining of. 
tongues that no 

blemish may be ^^^^^F^'\%. 

found, the pack- 
ing into cans, the 
weighing; the en- 
t i r e process, if 
viewed impartial- 
ly, v/ould more quickly remove the prejudice against canned meats 
than any argument. Certainly those who know eat it with far less 
mental discomfort than meat from an ordinary market; first, because 
prime cattle are always selected for use and, secondly, because of the 
cleanliness with which the meat is handled. So extensive is the in- 
dustry ia canned goods that they are marketed in nearly every 
country on the globe, exports of canned beef alone, during 1892, 
from the United States amounting to 79,000,000 pounds. 

The exhibit of canned meats from America was far larger than 
that from other countries, doubtless owing to the proximity of the 
canning houses, several of which are located in Chicago. The ex- 
hibits from various houses were much the same and comprised the 
following cuts of meat: brisket of corned beef, plain corned beef, 
brawn, pigs' feet, boar's head, boneless pigs' feet, dried beef (in 
cans), beef tongues, lunch (pigs') tongues, lambs' tongues, roast 
mutton, roast and boiled beef, minced steak, compressed ham, 
stewed kidneys, sv/eetbreads (sub-lingual and thyroid glands), Ger- 
man rare-bits (of pigs' head), English lunch meat, tripe, Oxford 
sausages, oxen-maul salat (salad of beef's palate), beef coUops, strips 
of breakfast bacon and chili con earns (pepper with beef). The last 
named dish Is made from small pieces of meat to which is added a 
varying amount of chili (pepper) according to the different receipts 



38 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

for making. It is a popular article of food, chiefly exported to the 
markets of Mexico and California, and whoever has visited the 
former country must remember with pleasure the national dish, chili 
con came. 

The canned meat industry of Australia is immense and rapidly 
growing and that country ranked next to the United States in the 
size of its exhibit at the World's Fair. The export trade in canned 
goods between Australia and England is an important source of 
revenue to the former country, comprising the meats exhibited at 
the exposition: corned beef, beef brawn, roast beef, boiled beef, 
rump steak, ox lips, ox cheeks, beef palate, ox tails, corned mutton, 
stewed kidneys and sheep's trotters. To the memory of Charles 
Dickens these latter pay classic and savory tribute, and visions of 
England with its "old ale, ripe wine, much sack and a pen'o'worth 
of bread" cluster appetizingly about the memory of him who wrote 
of sheep's trotters. One of the judges at the exposition, — is it 
treason to tell of it? — ^became half indignant when urged to taste 
of sheep's trotters. Never could he taste a morsel so plebeian! True, 
he was uncommonly fond of pigs' feet, "dainty morsels," said he, 
"easUy digested, appetizing, and — every one eats them, you know." 
So he wrapped himself in the recollection of pigs' feet, whJfeh are 
never out of mud until securely cooked and canned, while I ate, 
alone, a delicate tidbit called "sheep's trotter," far superior to a 
pigs' foot, well cooked, well flavored and nicely canned. Perhaps 
the time is coming when the extravagant American will no longer 
consign to the garbage heap so good a thing as a sheep's foot. The 
Australian corned mutton was as good as corned beef, excepting to 
those persons found in every community to whom mutton in any 
form is distasteful. The sheep used are the large Cotswold variety, 
and so cheap are they in Australia that a fine animal sells for fifty 
cents and its mutton retails at four cents a pound. 

The meat sent from Canada, Belgium, Prance, Argentine Re- 
public, Uruguay and Japan was chiefly beef and beef tongue. Spain 
exhibited roast beef, sirloin steak, tongue and cabrita. The cans, 
when opened for inspection, all showed choice meats, and with a 
bottle of crisp, round olives the tasting and judging was more pleas- 
urable than usual. "What is cabrita?" we questioned. "Kid," was 
the reply. Visions of theatre bills, oyster cans and garbage, the 
natural food of the American kid, assailed us and the very atmos- 
phere grew livid. But in spite of all prejudice, the fact remains 



■FOOD PEOBtJOTS OP THE WOULD. 39 

that cabHta is a tender, delicious meat, far less assertive in flavor 
than the mildest of mutton. 

Great Britain sent, preserved in the regulation tin cans, Irish 
stew, lamb with green peas, roast mutton, mutton chops, ham, tripe 
with onions, Oxford sausage, truffled sausages, chicken sausages 
and Scotch "haggis." The latter is well-nigh the Scottish national 
dishj highly prized across the water but seen in America rarely, ex- 
cept at the feasts of the bonnie Scots. Here is the recipe for 
making it, copied from an old English cook-book: 

The heart, tongue and part of the liver of the sheep is minced 
fine with half its weight of bacon. Now add a cup of bread crumbs, 
the rind of one lemon, two eggs, a glass of wine, two anchovies, 
pepper and salt. Mince all thoroughly together, place in a well 
buttered mold and boil for two hours. 

Whether served hot or cold this is a more than agreeable dish. 
Eeferring to Scotch "haggis," one of our best known American 
cooks, a writer upon cookery, says: "We need some mild laws to 
make people like such elaborate compounds as the foregoing, which 
are considered very fine across the sea and are encased in jelly and 
ornamented; at least to make people eat them after the trouble of 
their making." He then refers to a certain banquet given in Chi- 
cago, for which an expert French chef prepared the dish, and says: 
"Yet the way the Phillistines, after tasting with their knife points, 
pushed it away and took to plain beef and ham was sad for the 
artist to see." The same author adds that haggis may be modified 
by the use of truffles, particularly when used for luncheons, and 
after being made, may be kept for some time. 

Germany had certain canned meats put up after a fashion and 
combination of her own. There were, among others, ham with 
chestnuts and goose with beans, the latter dish rather a heavy one 
to the American taste. Prom Strasburg, the city of goose livers, 
there were sent quantities of meat for goose-liver pies, although the 
Germans stUl place the French name upon the labels, "Pat^ de f oie 
gras, aux truffes, du Perigord." There was also ham. Burgundy 
style, ham with champagne sauce, f ricandeau of veal with puree of 
green peas, and sausages, best of aU, from "Prankfurt-am-Main." 
Said one of the judges, as he stood before the rows of opened cans, 
"Frankfurter" in hand: "Many a time in Frankfurt, have I seen 
them make these sausages. A man stands at one end of a tank 
grinding away at sausages which fall into the boiling water with 
which the tank is fflled. At the other end the people stand eating 



40 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

them.'' Very few Americans ever taste the genuine Frankfurt 
sausage, but must be contented with those made here, rarely so 
skillfully seasoned or so delicately made. 

Days ran into weeks before the immense displays of canned 
goods at the exposition were all examined and the special points 
which determined their excellence were the following: (1) That the 
meat be well-selected, free from fat and tendons, and of good color; 
(2) that the seasoning be delicate; (.3) that the cans be well filled. 
Meat put up in cans must vary in nutritive value according to the 
amount of water used in cooking, this holding the albumin and ex- 
tractive salts in solution. The entire juices should be retained as 
far as possible, both for their nutritive value and for flavoring. 

Potted and deviled meats, preserved in cans and jars, are 
always in demand for lunches, picnics and camping parties, and are 
a relish as well as a food proper. No other preserved meats make 
such excellent sandwiches, and they are prepared usually from ham, 
chicken, turkey, beef and tongue. The meat is minced to extreme 
fineness, so that it resembles paste in consistency, and is seasoned 
delicately to retain the natural flavor. The deviled meats, of which ~ 
there are various kinds, are minced also, but differ from potted 
meats in being made very hot with peppers and spices. The season- 
ing varies with each canning house or locality. Beside the meats 
mentioned, herring, anchovies, rabbit and quail were exhibited, 
potted and also deviled. 

All the American packing-houses sent potted meats put up in 
tin cans. The only foreign countries which exhibited those were 
England and Prance, and these goods differed chiefly in being pre- 
served jn small earthen pots as well as in metal cans. 

Pickled meats were exhibited to a limited extent. They are so 
called because, after being cooked, they are protected from the air 
by being put into plain or spiced vinegar; cloves, allspice, lemon and 
bay leaves, with or without the addition of red peppers, being the sea- 
sonings most commonly used. These meats are chiefly useful for 
lunches, picnics and in restaurants. Only the choicest parts of the 
animal are used for pickling, tongues of beef, pig and sheep, pigs' 
feet and tripe. They are usually pu up in small kegs or half barrels. 

There are other methods of preserving, meat which need men- 
tion although not largely used and not wholly satisfactory. One of 
the oldest and best known is the preservation of meat by cold. The 
Eskimo knows that if his whale or seal blubber be buried in the 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 41 

snow, it may be preserved indefinitely. As long as meat is kept 
frozen it remains perfectly fresh, although its flavor is somewhat 
altered; but it must not be allowed to thaw. Ice has been used for 
this purpose for many years, particularly in the transportation of 
fresh meat, but owing to its expense the cold storage method has 
superseded it. This allows the meat to be kept in a stationary 
temperature just above the freezing point, and owing to this system 
our American beef may be placed upon the London markets very 
cheaply and in a perfect condition. Said Lady Somerset recently, 
when comparing the products of the fresh young soil of America to 
those of the impoverished land of England: "Why, even now, Mr. 
Armour of Chicago is underselling the local butchers in the little 
town of Ledbury on the castle lands." Australia sends large quanti- 
ties of meat to England in a fresh state by means of the cold storage 
system and the refrigerator car at the exposition kept meat in a 
fresh state during six, hot, long, summer months. 

Meat is also preserved by means of a coating of fat, which serves 
to exclude the air. Such meats, however,'must first be cooked, that 
€feie germs may be destroyed, then covered with melted fat or oil. 
This method of preserving, using a vegetable oil, was largely em- 
ployed in preparing the exhibits of both Spain and Italy. The food 
thus preserved includes sardines, anchovies, squid, tunny-fish, and 
cuttle-fish, besides such vegetables as mushrooms, artichokes and 
truffles. 

Creosote is another preservative, and also a powerful antiseptic. 
It is the active principle in smoke and the meats upon which it is 
used are caUed ham, bacon, and dried beef. 

A method has been patented in England according to which 
freshly killed meat is dipped into a solution containing one per cent 
of carbolic acid and seventy-two per cent of alcohol. After the 
meat has been removed and dried it is placed in a concentrated 
alcoholic solution of sugar. It is then cut in pieces, and packed in 
casks, the interstices being filled with melted fat. Another method 
which is practical in preparing meat for far distant markets, pro- 
vides that it be exposed to a current of refrigerated air until stiff- 
ened. It is then sprinkled with powdered borax and is transported 
in a refrigerator car. A method known as Kauffman's, which has 
been long in use in houseEolds, consists in fumigating the meat 
with sulphur. If this is done several times, meat may be kept in 
hot weather, without ice, for a considerable time. There is also a 



42 



FOOD PKODUOTS OP THE WORLD. 



material, advertised under the name of "Preservaline," which con- 
sists of bpraxj boric acid, saltpetre and salt, "f his added to water 
makes a brine in which the meat is immersed. 

"While the use of chemicals keeps meat in a marketable condi- 
tion, such meat, from a dietetic point of view, ought to be used with 
caution! As a general thing, any substance the antiseptic properties i 
of which are sufficient to keep meat unchanged by atmospheric 
contact, renders such meat a questionable article of diet. 




CHAPTER VII. 



THE UTILIZATION OF OFFAL. 




N THE foregoing chapters reference has been 
made chiefly to meat proper, those portions 
of the animal which lie about the bones and 
are known as muscle and fat. But there are 
other portions, termed offal, which are valu- 
able as food, but which are often cast off as 
refuse in dressing an animal for market. In 
small cities this waste is invariably seen but 
in the large cities, particularly in the packing 
houses, not only is that part of the animal 
utilized but many of our table delicacies are portions of offal. 

In broad terms, about one-third of the animal may be marketed 
as offal. In sheep the weight of it may equal the weight of the 
meat, while in hogs there is a smaller amount, compared to the 
weight of the body, than in any other animal. I was told by the 
representative of one of our largest packing houses that there is 
no profit on the meat proper, only upon the offal. The head of this 
teuse is a multi-mUlionaire. Meat is sent from his establishment 
into interior cities and towns and is sold at the price of country 
beef, though generally of a better quality because well matured, well 
fattened and more skillfully cut. The' prices at which it is sold, 
eight, ten and twelve cents a pound, prove that there can be little, 
if any, profit on the meat directly, when the expense of handling 
and shipping is considered. That the profit upon offal which is util- 
ized is not inconsiderable may be seen from the following report of 
animals slaughtered from this house during 1892: hogs, 1,750,000; 
cattle, 850,000; sheep, 600,000. The following table by Edward Smith 
states the relative proportion of the offal to the meat of various ani- 



44 FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

mals. It indicates how great would be the loss to those handling 
and consuming meat if these portions were not utilized: 

Carcass. Offal. 

Store oxen 59.3 38.9 

Fat oxen 59.8 38.5 

Pat heifers..' 55.6 41.3 

Fat calves 63.1 33.5 

Store sheep 53.4 45.6 

Half fat sheep 59 40.5 

Very fat sheep 64.1 35.8 

Store pigs 79.3 18.8 

Fat pigs 83.4 16.1 

Those portions of offal used for food are hearts, livers, ox-tails 
which are used for soup; the kidneys and the kidney fat which is a 
constituent of a most cleanly and wholesome article of food, butter- 
ine; tongues of cattle, sheep and pigs, ox-lips, ox-palates and sweet- 
breads. The lungs, being rich in nitrogenous matter, are minced 
and combined withi other meat, being greatly valued in some coun- 
tries as food, and the blood is, to some extent, used for blood pud- 
dings and sausages, dishes in great favor with the Germans. The 
stomachs of cattle are cleansed and made into Wge, a dainty which 
the old Greeks regarded as fit for heroes; for in the palmy days 
tripe was often the principal dish seen upon the banquet tables of 
those men who met to celebrate the victory of gods and mortals 
over the sacrilegious Titans. Oaen, France, is to-day celebrated for 
the manufacture of its tripe, the preparation of which is a general 
industry. All such portions of offal are more rich in protein or 
flesh-forming elements than meat; the percentage of salts is about 
the same while they contain relatively much less fat. A large pro- 
portion of offal is utilized commercially. The skin is sent to leather 
tanneries, the hair and specially the long ends of the tails of cattle 
are used in the making of mattresses; the trimmings of the hides 
are sent to gelatine factories from which they are returned in the 
form of delicate and transparent gelatine, the delight of every 
housewife. Parts of the hoofs, bones and horns are made into glue, 
the hoofs and horns themselves being converted into buttons, 
spoons and ornaments. The intestines are cleansed and salted for 
use as sausage casings, the undigested food in the stomachs is dried 
for fuel, the bladders are used for the packing of putty and all 
scraps are dried and used for fertilizers. The bones afe'dried and 
ground for fertilizers and for use in refining sugar. The blood, 
which is rich in albumin, is preserved, coagulated and dried, also 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. '45 

used both for the refining of sugar and the manufacture of fertil- 
izers. Even the stomachs of pigs are used for the manufacture of 
pepsin, while the refuse fats are sent to the soap factory which re- 
turns in exchange, soap and glycerine. Connected with the packing 
house already referred to is a laboratory in which a number of ex- 
cellent preparations of pepsin are made, as well as a medicinal pre- 
paration from the thyroid glands of the sheep. It seems that the 
science of economy would "o'erleap itself" in its endeavor to reduce 
waste to a minimum amount, for it has been said that "every por- 
tion of the pig is utilized, even the squeal, which may be preserved 
by phonograph!" 

Much of the poetry of the old times is lost in this practical util- 
ization of offal, for, however deliciously cooked and flavored, there 
is nothing more prosaic than beef coUops, sweetbreads, and boar's 
head turned out of an American tin can. There is little atmosphere 
of the oak forests of England or the valorous knight of the chase 
about a boar's head such as this; and we may well cling to the old 
rhymes and ballads. Dryden tells of "sweetbreads and collops 
which were with skewers pricked," and there is an old song of the 
boar's head which is still sung at the annual feast at Queen's Col- 
lege, Oxford, it having been first published in 1521. Wherever 
the boar's head was used, a custom dating back to the era of WUliam 
the Norman, it was borne, profusely decorated with holly and bay 
at the head of a triumphal procession to the banqueting hall. 
" The boar's head in hand hear I, 

Bedecked with hays and rosemarye, 

And I pray you, masters, he merry, 
Quot estis in eonvivlo. 

" The hoar's head, as I understand, 
Is the bravest disli in all the land, 
When thus bedecked with a gay garland, 
Let us seiTire cantico ! 

" Our steward hath provided this 

In honor of the King of Bliss 

Which on this day to he served is, 

In reglmensi atrio ! 

Caput aprl def ero 

Eeddens laudes Domino." 



CHAPTER VIII. 




POULTBY AND WILD FOWL. 



OULiTRY is wild fowl domesticated, al- 
though the origia of its domestication 
and its use as food is lost in tradition. 
There was an early period in which all 
birds, now called poultry and fowl, 
bmlt their nests in the tangled leafage 
of a jungle and gathered berries, buds 
and slugs for food. To-day their de- 
scendents are fed and protected by 
their quondam enemy, man, that they 
may minister to his fondness for chick- 
en-pie and pat6 de f oie gras. It is stated 
that wild fowl were first domesticated 
in Burmah, Darwin believes, from the 
jungle-fowl of Bankiva. There is also 
a Chinese tradition that poultry came 
to that land, originally, from the West, 
perhaps directly from India, while the 
records of ancient Babylonia indicate 
that poultry-raising was an industry 
with the Chaldeans as remotely as the ninth centui^, B. C. It is 
known that domesticated fowl were common among the Britons, 
prior to the Roman invasion in 55 B. C, and poultry-raising has been 
practiced in most European countries since earliest times. To-day, 
while wild birds or game are becoming gradually rarer and more 
expensive, the domesticated species is being still more largely 



48 FOOD PKODDCTS OF THE WORLD. 

used and the industry of poultry-raising is an important one in 
nearly all countries. While in hotels and at elaborate dinners the 
place of honor in the menu is still occupied by the sirloin of beef, 
the dinner is never complete without poultry in some form and 
game, the latter usually broiled, following the punch or sherbet. At 
any modern dinner, at all complete, a proniinent place is given to 
some of the poultry family, a goose, a pair of ducks or better sliU a 
turkey, the most recently domesticated bird of all. While among 
meats the boar's head is assigned the "crown and semblance" of 
honor, among birds there is, as well, their proper and distinctive 
standard bearer, the peacock. As with the boar's head, the peacock 
served the double purpose of food and epicurean decoration, with 
the single difference that, while boar's head is still seen upon the 
holiday tables of England, the peacock, in such role, is. a thing 
of the past. It was most highly esteemed as a food in the middle 
ages, and legends tell us that the bird was first obtained by Solo- 
mon from the spice islands of the Orient. The bird was not used as 
food later than the reign of Francis I., when it first came to be em- 
ployed merely as ornament upon the tables. It Vi^as highly spiced 
and covered completely with its own gorgeous plumage, its tail out- 
; spread, the eyes in which, they tell us, symbolized eternity. Winter 
' relates that~"tbe same peacock was served again and again and on 
special occasions, such as weddings, his beak and throat were stuffed 
with cotton and camflre." This was lighted for the di^ertisement of 
the guests much as the brandy poured about a plum pudding is set 
a-flre just before being placed upon the table. From that time un- 
til this France has been called the greatest fowl-consuming nation 
in the world, and the statement was well borne out by the display 
of canned and truffled fowl which was sent by that country to the 
World's Columbian Exposition. 

As a v/hole, fowls have a distinct dietetic value, although, in re- 
gard to nutritive properties, there is little difference between theirs 
and other meat. Their flesh is rich in nitrogenous matter, but con- 
tains little fat unless, as with poultry, they are specially fattened 
for killing. The meat of poultry is classified as light meat and 
dark, the latter considered more delicious in flavor, while that of 
wild fowl is always dark and savory. It is also considered more 
tender and digestible than the meat of tame fowl, as one author 
states, because of the violent exercise undergone by the bird prior 
to kUling, and is greatly preferred by the gourmet. The flavor of 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 49 

certain wild fowl is distinctive and largely depends upon the food 
eaten by them. That of the highly prized canvas back duck is due 
to its feeding upon the wild celery, as the root of the valisneria 
is called. These beds of wild celery are located along Chesapeake 
Bay, and the flesh of the duck is in fine condition only when its 
diet is wholly vegetarian. This is not always the case, for at times 
the duck's food consists of fish, which causes its flesh to lose all 
that is valued in its flavor. 

The flesh of the ptarmigan savors of the spruce leaves of its na- 
tive mountains, the partridge owes its spicy flavor to the aromatic 
nuts and berries which it uses for food, while the Congo chickens of 
Africa are considered excellent because fed upon pine-apples. Even 
in the case of the turkey, a delicipusfiavor may be imparted to its 
meat by a diet of sweet potatoes and nuts continued for several 
weeks before killing. Such birds, however, demand extravagant 
prices and the story is told of an Italian restaurateur in New York 
who accomplishes the same thing by flavoring the meat, posi mortem, 
as it were. He mixes a pint of vinegar and claret with a cupful of 
olive oil in which the bird, dressed, is partly immersed. It is turned 
dally for a week and then cooked, a dish fit for a king. But one 
surely ought to be satisfied with the skill of the average cook who 
makes his dressing of bread crumbs vnth oysters, mushrooms or ' 
Italian chestnuts, the daintiest of sweet marjoram and summer 
savory for seasoning, pepper and salt, plenty of butter and a suspi- 
cion of nutmeg. What matter whether the turkey be stuffed before 
death or after? It is the American dish typical, combining the 
intangible piquancy of the French, the heartiness of the English and 
the generous savoriness of the lands of the Danube and the Rhine. 

It is essential that the flesh of both poultry and game be tender 
before cooking and in some countries it is the custom to give fowls 
vinegar for that purpose just before killing them. The most com- 
mon method, especially with game, is to let it hang until tender or 
"ripened," by which time it has acquired a peculiar flavor, much 
liked by certain epicures and designated as "gamey.'' Such meats 
are in the incipient stages of decomposition and Chrysostom says of 
them: "The tendency of putrefaction to impart deleterious quali- 
ties to animal matter, originally wholesome, has long been known. 
To those unaccustomed to the use of tainted meat, the mere com- 
mencement of decay is sufficient to render the meat insupportable 
and noxious. Game, only enough decayed to please the palate of 



BO ^ FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

the epicure, has caused severe cholera in persons not accustomed 
to eating it in that state." The detrimental effects of such meat, 
which is always poisonous, are counteracted in a measure by the 
heat used in cooking it and also by the digestive fluids which are 
antiseptic in their nature. Then, too, its frequent use renders the 
system less liable to be affected by it. The liking for it is undoubt- 
■edly a depraved and vitiated taste which may have descended to 
certain of us from uncivilized ancestors. The Indians of America 
are accustomed to bury meat for weeks, until it is putrid. Then it 
becomes more orlessofa delicacy according to the degree of its putre- 
faction. Even the Greenlander buries his meat until- half decayed, 
when it Is used as a relish, called mikiak. The Chinese, Siamese 
and Burmese use putrefied fish as a basis of certain of their choicest 
condiments, while the epicures of cultured Europe and America 
disdain the barbarity of such tastes. But is this any more barbaric 
than the hanging of game until tender from decay before cooking? 
It half persuades one that the cycle of gastronomic tastes is being 
completed in this return to the customs of the savage, for when man 
feasts upon partially decomposed flesh his taste is not an iota in ad- 
vance of that of the rudest of his ancestors. 

Chicken, the most common of domesticated fowls, is more 
largely used in Europe than here because it is possible to obtain it 
when other meat in good condition mkj not be procured. It is in- 
dispensable to mulligatawny soup, and to the curry of rice, so staple 
a food with the Siamese, Javanese, East Indians and many European 
nations. Siam exhibited dried and shredded chicken. The variouB 
canning houses of America sent displays of potted chicken, plain 
and seasoned; of boned chicken, plain and truffled; of deviled 
chicken, the same meat canned plain without seasoning, and curried 
chicken in abundance. France, a country which annually spends 
fifty-two millions of francs for different species, of fowl, exhibited 
varieties of chicken, both whole and minced, dressed with truffles. 
Beside this there was a profusion of bottled orete de cog and crete de 
rogiwns de coq, portions of the fowl which are not as yet accepted 
articles of foCd in America but which are imported to a small extent 
for foreigners living here. 

Probably there is no fowl more tortured than the goose, that 
the markets may be furnished with the enormous livers from which are 
made the pat6 de foie gras. The goose is kept caged and in a warm 
place and is stuffed with fattening foods, until the liver, in which 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 51 

this uuassimilated food takes refuge, becomes gorged with fat and 
enormously enlarged. The goose is then killed and the liver, when 
put up with truffles, is pronounced by all the world "the most deli- 
cious of morsels." At the exposition France and Germany met each 
other in friendly rivalry over their famous goose-liver pies. Stras- 
burg and Paris had each a fine display though Germany still uses 
the French name, pS,t6 de foie gras. In France, I am told, the food 
of these geese is seasoned until stimulating to quick . growth, this 
producing the jpeouliar flavor so well liked in the livers when pre- 
pared as "pat^s." The story is told of a certain queen of France 
who spent fifteen thousand francs in the effort to have a certain 
flavor imparted to these goose-livers by the method of feeding. 
Goose livers are far from being healthful articles of food. It has 
been previously shown that the human system can assimilate only a 
limited amount of fat and should not be burdened with a quantity 
taken merely to please a perverted appetite, and which must be 
thrown off as effete matter. 

Germany exhibited canned goose with beans. Goose, how- 
ever, is not as much used in this country as abroad, our only ex- 
hibit being plain canned goose from the state of Maine, although 
there is a famUiar ditty heralding its excellence when dressed with 
"sage and onions.'' 

Duck was not largely exhibited at the exposition, only a few 
houses sending it. The largest display was from Siam, dried and 
shredded. The bird itself, when tame, is closely allied to the goose 
in habits and its meat is quite similar in flavor. 

What the goose is to Prance the turkey is to America. It has 
long beep known as our national bird and is quite generally appro- 
priated to the celebration of our great 
national holiday. Thanksgiving Day. Its 
meat is superior in flavor to that of the 
goose, and we are already learning, as has 
been noticed, the French extravagance of 
improving this flavor by special feeding. 
There was plenty of turkey sent to the 
exposition, aU canned, the finest toeing 
boned and put up with truffles. There 
was turkey meat potted in glass, the dark 
meat in the center and the white surrounding it which, when sliced, 
made a very ornamental dish. There was also deviled turkey of 
6 




52 POOD PEODOCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

various kinds, most of which was seasoned with condiments to the 
disadvantage of its natural, delicate flavor. 

The foreign countries, those which exhibited canned quail, 
partridge and other wild fowl, were far more largely represented 
than America. The finest display of partridge and quail at the ex- 
position came from Argentine Republic. They were preserved whole 
in cans, the partridge in oval tins, each tin containing two birds. 
The commissioner told me that these tins of canned partridge could 
be sold in Argentine Republic for a sum equivalent to the American 
dime. Said he: "These birds are so plentiful that if a covey is 
started by a hunting-party they may be beaten down with clubs." 
The birds were well put up but with their flavor somewhat modified 
by the highly seasoned sauce in which they were preserved. 

England presented a great variety of game, potted and canned. 
There were curried venison, rabbit and hare, pat^s of snipe, wood- 
cook, plover and lark; and pheasant, delicious truffled pheasant 
from, the preserve of a member of the peerage. These preserves, as 
the land owned by the peerage, and which are used only for hunting 
grounds, are called, furnish excellent game at every hunting season. 
Most of it finds its way into English markets, as it brings a good 
price and is largely in demand. The pheasant is popularly supposed 
to be best prepared for cookery if hung by the tail until it is suffi- 
ciently ripened to become detached from that appendage. It is 
probable that pheasant when intended for canning are not so 
treated, for I attributed the flavor of those at the exposition to 
the truffles, with which they were prepared. The partridge and 
woodcock vie with each other in regard to flavor and delicacy and 
epicures have never yet agreed upon which is best. An English 
rhyme tells us that — 

" If the partridge had the woodcock's thigh, 
'Twould be the hest bird that ever did fly ; 
If the woodcocli had but the partridge's breast, 
'Twould be the best bird that ever was dressed." 
But to taste of p&t6 of lark seemed sheer sacrilege, the bird of all 
birds, immortalized by Chaucer, Shelley, Wordsworth and WUliam 
Shakespeare. Sentiment must be forgotten by the Englishman of 
to-day for the London markets are supplied from the country about 
Dunstable with not less than four thousand dozen of these dainty 
songsters annually. 

Russia presented a large variety of Wild fowl, nicely preserved, 
whole, in tin cans, put up without seasoning or sauce. Each bird 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



53 



could be lifted from its can entire and, though dry enough 
to be served upon a napkin, was tender, delicious and per- 
fectly preserved. The list included hazel-hen, a bird similar to the 
American grouse; heath-hen, also a grouse; Scotch-hen, snow-hen, 
a species of pheasant; ptarmigan, called also the spruce grouse; and 
capercailzie, a grouse, native to the mountains of northern Europe. 
Nearly all countries preserve fowl, each differently and some 
more skilfully than others. England and America, only, make 
a specialty of boned and potted meats and in these, no other country 
excels them. 




CHAPTER IX. 



FISH. 




[ HE flsherios exhibit at the Columbian Expo- 
sition was placed in a bmlding of its own, 
located at the northern end of the grounds, 
upon the upper lagoon. The large exhibits of 
preserved flsh, the miles of filmy netting 
spread and draped into place by rods, oars 
and tackle in the main buUding, indicated a 
vast amount of energetic research upon the 
part of our own as well as foreign nations. 
The aquaria of living flsh in the structures on 
either side of the central part demonstrated, 
in most interesting fashion, the extent and 
dignity of the occupation of fishery. 

The Fisheries building was fashioned af- 
ter the old Spanish-Romanesque style of architecture, wholly unlike 
in motive and treatment anything else on the grounds. The very 
capitals of its columns forewarned one of the wetness of the exhibit 
within its walls for, as Ruskin tells us, capitals of such shape are 
peculiar to northern and rainy climes. Profusely decorated, they 
slanted abruptly inward from abacus to shaft as if for protection from 
inclement weather above. The decoration seemed to have been 
dredged from a sedgy pond or weedy sea-marsh and, by some modem 
Medusa, stiffened into the stone adornments of column, capital and 
arch. Frogs, lizards and crawfish, their legs indicating a furious 
scramble on their part to escape, were caught in a tangle of sagit- 
taria and pickerel-grass. Lobsters and crabs disported themselves 
among the fingered masses of sea-weed; flsh, lithe of body and gro- 
tesque of countenance, meandered over the columns, quite secure 



B6 FOOD PBODUOTS OF THE WORLD. 

from disturbance by their meshy protection of net; and also with 
coquettishly clasped taUs, adorned the handrails of the porches. 

The living exhibit in the aquaria was not intended to be a food 
display, but rather a natural science lesson. The aquaria were 
placed in the end structures which were polygonal in shape, the 
salt and fresh water displays being separated by the central build- 
ing. Anemones, like gorgeous flowers, brightened the salt water 
tanks and as the sea-horses and amiable little fiddler crabs floated 
past them, one was reminded A nothing so much as the quaint con- 
ceits which have made fame and fortune for the artist, F. S. Church. 
The fresh water exhibit was far larger, containing specimens of 
nearly every variety known to the waters of our lakes and rivers; 
the mammoth sturgeon, mishe-nahma as our Indians call it, the 
slender pickerel, the calico bass, and the tiny trout from our mount- 
ain streams, the daintiest fish of all. But nothing could be farther 
removed from any suggestion of food than these fish of the aquaria, 
demurely floating about in the radiance of electric light. Not a 
suspicion of gaminess could be attached to them. The shark gazed 
deprecatingly through the glass at what he may have thought to be 
a human menagerie on parade, and the very sword-fish seemed to 
breathe apologies for inability to sheathe his ugly weapon. 

The main building, larger than the others, contained scientific 
data of all forms of aquatic life, displayed by means of maps, pre- 
served and stufEed specimens, casts and explanatory literature. All 
classes contributed their share. There were, besides fish of all vari- 
eties, sponges, jelly-fish, polypi, star-fish, sea-urchins, leeches, Crusta- 
cea, reptiles, aquatic animals and even water-fowl. Fish culture 
was illustrated by means of hatcheries exhibited in both the Gov- 
ernment and Fisheries buUdings. The science of fresh water ang- 
ling was also demonstrated with all its- death dealing apparatus; 
traps, nets, rods, reels, lines, gaffs, spears, creels, artificial flies and 
bait; all the intricate appliances with which man must reinforce his 
own skill and acumen before he can cope with the wariness of one 
timid little fish. The methods of sea-fishing were most completely 
shown by Norway, Japan, Canada and those of the United States 
bordering on the Atlantic ocean. The fishing gear of all nations 
and many kinds was shown, illustrating trawl, herring, long-line and 
other methods. Fish-hooks, knives, traps, wiers, nets, lobster and 
eel-pots illustrated special fisheries such as herring, cod, mackerel 
halibut, oyster, lobster and sponge. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OP THE WOKLD. 67 

But the most interesting f eattire, in many ways, was the food 
exhibit of preserved fish. There were salted fish, dried fish, smoked 
fish, and canned fish; fish flour, fish delicacies such as sardines, an- 
chovies and caviare, and oils from the whale, cod, seal, shark and 
dolphin. Pish is an important article of diet among all nations, to 
say nothing of those communities depending almost wholly upon it. 
It is, of course, most largely used by those who follow fishing as an 
occupation, chief among whom are the Norwegians, the people on 
the coasts of Ireland, those of the Mediterranean coasts, the Eski- 
mos of the Arctic regions, the poorer classes of Chinese and East 
Indians and a limited class on the Atlantic seaboard of America. 

It is commonly believed that a fish-consuming people are not 
robust, becoming liable to leprosy and other scorbutic diseases, as 
these affections are common in China, in lower India and among 
the Eskimos. This is true, however, of only the most ignorant 
and destitute classes, and, it is more than likely, because of their 
inability to procure even a small quantity of vegetables, cereals 
or fruits than because they are deprived of all animal foods ex- 
cepting fish. The people of our own coasts and those of Norway 
are as rugged, healthy and prolific as could be desired and the 
women of fish-eating communities are often remarkable for their 
robust and picturesque beauty. In neither case, however, do these 
people depend chiefly upon fish for sustenance. They cultivate and 
use vegetables and grains extensively and in the case of the Nor- 
wegians, one of their fish is salmon, the meat of which somewhat re- 
sembles beef. A diet, continuously adhered to throughout years 
and generations, consisting mainly of a certain animal food fosters 
a tendency to scorbutic or skin disease. It has been stated that 
the population of England was continually depleted in early times 
by scurvy, owing to the fact that vegetables had not then taken their 
place as a necessary article of diet and that the people were com- 
pelled to subsist chiefly upon meat. This is especially the case 
in tropical countries and is probably the reason that such tendencies 
among the flsh-eatlng natives of lower Asia are attributed to their 
flsh diet. 

In regard to its nutritive value fish compares most favorably 
with meats, containing about the same proportion of protein, but, 
excepting the sturgeon and salmon, far less fat. Fish is considered 
to be a specially suitable food for brain-workers on account of the 
phosphorus contained. This belief is without scientific foundation. 



68 



FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WORLD, 




-*^'tf^*> 



■V^ 



•<? 



^ 



although the fact that it is very digestible 
renders it more suitable for those of sedentary 
habits than beef; for such people should 
avoid a heavy meat diet. Their systems have 
no use for it and if the unused portions 
are not eliminated, a process always costing 
dearly in wasted strength, there occur period- 
ical attacks of biliousness or, worse, gout. On 
the other hand a diet of fish alone is not 
capable of sustaining continued muscular 
activity. Dalton, in comparing the nutritive 
values of different foods, gives priority to 
beef; then in order, mutton, venison, fowl, 
game, and last of all, fish. However, as fish 
contains a large amount of protein in a^ 
highly digestible form and comparatively 
little fat, it is a healthful and palatable 
food, and is specially valuable in combination 
with cereals. 

There is a proverb which reads: "It is 
only the Arabs of the desert who affect to 
despise flsh," and the proverb states a well- 
known truth inversely, for wherever flsh is 
to be procured, there it is held in great es- 
teem as an article of diet or as a delicacy. 
Since the earliest times flsh have held high 
rank as food. We read that the Greeks and 
Romans were fond of them and in cookery 
combined them with oil, wine, eggs, carrots, cheese and sweet herbs. 



H^ 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 59 

Modern tastes are simpler in this respect for we chiefly prize the 
natural flavor ■which heat develops, and a whiteflsh broiled, a shad 
^'planked," or a dainty smelt, browned quickly in smoking oil, is 
quite to our taste without added flavorings. It is said that we are 
not as epicurean in regard to fish as were the ancients; and this is 
to some extent true, for it is not always possible to procure them in 
a perfectly fresh state. There is an art of flshmongery in our age, 
and by means of painting the gills and various other devices, stale 
fish are often relieved of the appearance of their condition. The 
Greeks very early enacted a law, which we might adopt with bene- 
fit, stipulating that the fisherman or fish vender must remain stand- 
ing until all his fish were sold. America, surrounded by ocean and 
gulf, traversed by the greatest rivers of the world, and holding in 
her midst a chain of immense lakes, seems intended to supply the 
inhabitants with an abundance of fish for food. When supplies of 
any kind are plentiful, however, more or less lavish expenditure 
and waste are the result and the effects of such waste were early 
noticeable in our fresh water fisheries. More fish were taken, fre- 
quently, than were needed for food ; they were improtected during the 
spawning season; seines, traps and pounds were used and the 
smaller fish were wantonly destroyed. 

The early fisheries' reports from time to time pointed out a no- 
ticeable decrease in the coast fisheries as well as those of the great 
lakes. It was seen that some protection to the fishing industry was 
a necessity and in February, 1811, Jaws were passed which had for 
their object the preservation of the food fish of the United States. 
By the next year the Fish Commission was in working order, its first 
appropriation being $15,000, and it became a separate governmental 
bureau in 1888. To-day the Department of Fisheries is working 
along the same line with the Department of Agriculture toward 
better methods of food preservation. The department specially 
investigates the geographical distribution of fish and endeavors to 
preserve the equalization of such distribution; it experiments for 
the purpose of learning the economical value of fish as food; and by 
experiments in other directions endeavors to determine the best 
methods of fish propagation and culture. The careful and efficient 
research of the Fish Commission has resulted in an awakened pub- 
lic sentiment which will no longer calmly submit to the useless de- 
struction of fish by seines, traps and other means; and the exhibi- 
tion in the Fisheries building, with that made by the Fisheries De« 



60 FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

partment in the Government building at the exposition, was the 
crown and memorial set upon twenty years of philanthropic work. 

The flsh in the aquaria, intended merely as an educational ex- 
hibit at the exposition, far outnumbered in variety those used for 
food, although it is estimated that in the United States alone, in- 
cluding coast fisheries, there are about one hundred varieties used 
for the latter purpose. 

Among edible fishes the white-meated .variety is more easily 
digested than those possessing red flesh, as the former contain far 
less fat. If fat be contained to any extent it is usually deposited in 
the liver, as with the cod, while in red-meated fish such as salmon, 
it is distributed thi-oughout the tissue. All flsh are in best condi- 
tion before spawning, just after the season has passed being far less 
valuable for food. Their flavor is influenced by the food consumed 
by them, no variety being more susceptible than the trout. It is the 
flsh, par excellence, when caught in mountain rivulets, but of de- 
cidedly different flavor after being fed for even a short time in trout 
ponds. Someone has compared the flavor of smelt to that of cu- 
cumbers and grayling to that of thyme; and we all are familiar with 
the sedgy taste of pickerel and catflsh caught from muddy, grass- 
grown ponds. It is related that the ancient Eomans valued turbot 
as a food more highly if caught after the flsh had feasted upon some 
disobedient slave, thrown into the pond; an incredibly horrible 
custom but finding almost a parallel in the brutality with which 
turtle, lobster, and other foods are sacrificed to the whims of so- 
called epicures. 

The food exhibit proper showed many varieties of preserved flsh, 
the different methods of preservation being dry salting, salting in 
brine or pickling, drying without salt, pulverizing to flsh-flour, 
pounding and shredding, canning, and preserving in oil. Each of 
these methods depends either upon the demands of the country in 
which the flsh are preserved or the requirements of an export trade. 

The United States occupied flrst rank in respect to the magni- 
tude of its display, although the exhibits of Canada, Norway and 
Russia were but little inferior in any respect. Large displays of 
dried, smoked and canned salmon were sent by the great canning 
companies of Washington and Oregon. The salmon attains an 
enormous size, as was seen by specimens sent from Portland, Oregon, 
frozen into cakes of ice, one flsh weighing sixty-seven pounds. 
Sturgeon, dried and in "scraps," was sent from the Northwest, being 



FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 61 

a fat, coarse-meated fish and one diflQcult of digestion. In early- 
times its flesh was considered a great delicacy, Henry I. of England 
having once proclaimed it to be a royal flsh and one to be eaten at 
no table but his own. But its quondam reputation has long been 
forgotten by modern flsh lovers. Fishermen attribute its rank 
flavor to its food, and it is variously known as "herring-sturgeon" 
and "mackerel-sturgeon," these smaller kinsmen furnishing it with 
food at different places or times. 

The same canneries sent also canned sturgeon roe or eggs, 
known as caviare. This is considered a great delicacy and from its 
appetite and thirst-provoking qualities has been called the "savory' 
preliminary" of a feast. That of Russia, where it is usually eaten in a 
fresh state, is described as being "grey, pearly, succulent and deli- 
cate, of which most of the caviare found in this country is but the 
shadow of the substance." The word caviare is of Turkish origin, 
and the delicacy was earliest used by the Moslem tribes inhabiting 
Russia. It was introduced into western Europe by the merchant 
traders of Constantinople and was well known in the Elizabethan 
age of England. At that time, however, it was esteemed only by the 
wealthy and was considered to be as far above the taste as it cer- 
tainly was beyond the purse of ordinary people. Hamlet, in speak- 
ing of a play, makes the comparison: "It pleased not the million; 
'twas caviare to the general; but it was an excellent play." 

The exhibit of caviare at the exposition was contributed to not 
alone by foreign countries but by America. That from North Caro- 
lina was salted and dried. It is also largely produced from the roe 
of the New Jersey sturgeon. The roe is shipped to Europe, re- 
packed, relabeled and then shipped back to America to be resold at 
"an advanced price. It brings, originally, from five to seven dollars 
per keg, each keg being from 100 to 130 pounds in weight, and the 
last year's production of caviare, as shipped abroad at a low price, 
"was valued at $140,000. Americans are rapidly developing a taste 
for this delicacy, which is useful in the making of sandwiches as 
well as in fish-dressing and sauces. 

The Great Lakes were represented by whitefish and trout whUe 
the eastern states displayed mackerel, haddock, blueflsh, salmon, 
halibut, and cod. The latter is especially valuable for food as its 
flesh contains, proportionately, far more nutriment and less fat than 
the majority of flsh. When caught in season it is meaty and tender, 
in fishing districts becoming a staple article of diet; but when 



62 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

caught out of season its flesh is stringy, tough and flavorless. It is 
usually cured by salting and by exposure to sun and air until thor- 
oughly dried. The cod furnishes two delicacies, highly prized by 
all fishermen, which were sent in cans to the exposition — cods' 
sounds and tongues. The sounds are the swimming bladders of the 
cod and are delicate and gelatinous when cooked. The tongues are 
tempting morsels, and neither these nor the sounds are often found 
in inland markets, owing to the great liking which people on the 
coasts have for them. 

Halibut was displayed cured, as is usual, by salting and smok- 
ing. There was also a display of smelt, the silvery little tid-bit 
which is always delicious but never plentiful enough. Sardines, 
genuine American sardines (which are only little herring), put up 
in genuine cotton-seedl oil, took their place with the others. There 
is no objection to these as an article of food, especially when put up 
in a pure, vegetable oU, but to be given the name of sardines, a 
French label and a high price, seems very unworthy the American 
nation. Call them herring in vegetable oU, make them so good that 
rich and poor want them and so cheap that all can buy, and another 
name may be added to our list of distinctively American productions. 

Canada had a praiseworthy exhibit, not only of fish foods 
but also of boats and fishing appliances. There were exhibited 
salmon, canned and dried; dried, boneless cod, and cod shredded; 
hake and haddock, dried sturgeon, and cods' tongues in cans and 
half-barrels. 

Norway's display was particularly large and full of interest. 
There were exhibited boats and flshing-gear of all kinds showing 
the people to be of unusual thrift and intelligence, as well as pains- 
taking and scientific. There was exhibited complete analyses of 
different fish foods, so arranged that the most unlearned could at 
once see the relative nutriment and wastes. This exhibit was ar- 
ranged in sets of glass jars, all the jars being plainly labeled. Jar 
number one contained two pounds of a certain fish. Jar number 
two contained the entire amount of nitrogenous or tissue-buUding 
elements found in a similar two pounds of the same kind of fish. 
The next jar contained the fat or oil, the next the water, extracted, 
and the last jar the ash or waste matter. If protein in its most 
digestible form were desired a glance indicated which fish was most 
suitable; if oil were necessarry, another was seen to be most valu- 
able. Such experiments are forging along the right line, and, if 



FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 63 

carried on in all lands and with all foods, it were not long before 
people would be fed as intelligently as is live stock by the average 
farmer. 

The Norwegian dried flsh were haddock, coalflsh, stockfish, ling, 
cod and boneless cod, shredded fish, and fish-flour. The haddock 
were cured without salt, dried until extremely hard, and tied into 
bundles weighing fifty pounds each. Fish flour was shown, prepared 
from various flsh which, after being well dried, are pulverized. 
This fish flour is extensively used as food in Norway, chiefly for bis- 
cuits, jmddings and soups. The following flsh were well preserved 
in' Frine: stock-fish, herring, kUp-fish, ling, cusk, cod, haddock, 
mackerel and anchovies. Among canned flsh were sardines, ancho- 
vies, herring in oil and a large assortment labeled, "Delicatessen." 
The latter included flsh-balls, 
flsh-baUs in jeUy, flsh-baUs in 
wine sauce, cods' roe, flsh pud- 
ding, flsh gratin and fish-balls in 
flsh bouillon. 

Among all the nations of the 
far East, there were none which 
more genuinely won the respect 
of this hurrying, restless, western 
continent than did the Japanese. 
Whatever the food exhibited 
might be, every detail of its his- 
tory, growth and manufacture, . 
even to a chemical analysis, was 
given. The labels upon all their 
food articles contained full in- Siamese Fish BroUer 

formation, showing that the Japanese are unrivaled in patience, that 
they are absolutely honest in the manufacture of their goods, and 
that they endeavor, not to put upon the market the largest quantity, 
but to make each article perfect in workmanship. Their dried flsh 
were nicely prepared and attractively put up; salmon, herring, sar- 
dines, skate, and sharks' fins, the latter a great delicacy. The 
salted flsh were salmon, cod, mackerel, herring, tunny and tai. 
Herring and sardines were preserved in oil; various fish were 
canned, some of which were placed in the cans in layers separated 
by grape leaves. 

geawe^d, so largely used in Japan as a food, was also exhibited. 




64 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

It is prepared by being cleansed and then pressed into thin sheets, 
as delicate and transparent as mica. This seaweed has an agreeable 
taste and imparts its own flavor to other food which may be cooked 
with it. The entire exhibit of Japan, as well as that of Norway, was 
educational to a marked degree. 

Bussia exhibited largely. There were sturgeon steak, caviare, 
herring, smoked eels, sprats and anchovies. The exhibit impressed 
one with the fact that the most highly prized article of all was 
caviare. All were carefully preserved. 

Great Britain exhibited dried flsh from Dublin Bay, the cele- 
brated "Finnan baddies," and herring, most excellent herring. 
Little wonder that herring-pies have been famous in England for 
nearly three centuries, for we learn that in 1629, twenty -four her- 
ring-pies, each containing five herring, were carried to court, a cus- 
tom not yet forgotten. This is the recipe for making: Five her- 
ring, to be seasoned with half a pound of ginger, half a pound of 
pepper, a quarter of a pound of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, one 
ounce of long pepper, half an ounce of grains of paradise (a some- 
thing very peppery and which, we are told, was then much used in 
beer). These pies were to be washed down with good ale. 

Herring are essentially modern flsh, for neither the Greeks nor 
Romans knew of them. The Dutch first brought them from the 
Scots and pickled them so excellently, it is said, that they derived 
great profit from the sale. But the herring of Great Britain, such 
as were seen at the exposition, kippered, pickled, and put up in 
cream of tomatoes, are unequaled. There were also tunny flsh, cod, 
pilchards, white-bait, turbot, soles and sprats, Yarmouth bloaters, 
eels and anchovies, herring milt and herring roes. One firm made 
a special exhibit of silvooeas, a fish resembling the herring and pos- 
sessing a delicate fiavor. They were served to the public daily, and 
became very popular, put up in cans with tomato sauce and kippered. 

The fish exhibits of both New South Wales and Mexico were 
largely educational. 

The Mediterranean countries sent chiefly sardines put up in 
oUve oil, the firm meated little flsh whose popularity is so great that 
all sorts of imitations follow in its wake. Italy and Spain both sent 
tunny in oil, also cuttle-flsh and squid. Both the latter flsh have 
much the flavor and texture of shrimp. The cuttle-flsh was also 
preserved in oil, sections of its arms resembling huge pipes of maca- 
roni and the eating of one of these fearful disc-like suckers by one 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 65 

unaccustomed to it brought to mind in all its horrid vividness, the 
cuttle-fish described by Victor Hugo. Still, the flesh much resembles 
the meat of the lobster claw and was considered as great a luxury 
by the ancient Bomans as it is to-day by their descendants. Squid 
is put up in its own inky fluid and is far from attractive in ap- 
pearance. It consists simply of an elongated sac with tentacles at 
one extremity, being largely eaten in Portugal and other countries 
of southern Europe. 

Siam exhibited several varieties of flsh, all dried, some whole 
and some pounded and shredded. There were cuttle-fish, squid, 
shrimp, prawn, and bass, including very many varieties with untrans- 
latable names. The skate was also exhibited dried, a cartilaginous 
fish, in flavor somewhat like Japanese seaweed. 

As a food, fish are absolutely free to those who wish to procure 
them from the waters and should be one of our lowest-priced articles 
of diet. Fish do not require care as to protection, propagation or 
feeding and were it not for the reckless waste of this product by nets 
and traps the occupation would not be governed by the element of 
chance or "luck" which renders it a precarious one, and its product 
higher in price than ordinary meats. 




CHAPTER X. 



SHELL-FISH AND TURTLE. 




HELL-PISH may be generally classified 
as crustaceans and mollusks, the former 
possessing an articulated body which is 
protected by a coat or shell-like cover- 
ing. The latter are invertebrate and in- 
articulate animals whose shells enlarge 
yearly to accommodate their growth-. 
The former class includes lobster, 
crabs, crawfish, shrimp and prawn, de- 
scribed by Dr. Edward Smith as fibri- 
nous, because composed of actual mus- 
cular fibre. Mollusks may be subdi- 
vided into bivalves, comprising the 
oyster, scallop, clam and mussel; and univalves, including the peri- 
winkle, cockle, limpet, whelk, etc. 

Nearly all species of shell-fish were known to the Greeks and 
Romans, the universal favorite being the oyster. Crustaceans were 
usually eaten raw, and Pliny tells of a crawfish (which was probably 
a lobster), measuring four cubits or nearly six feet in length. It is 
said that the Romans were better connoisseurs of fish and shell-fish 
than are the moderns and the deviled crab of to-day may have had 
for its prototype the crab and mussel minced meats of two thousand 
years ago. In the sixteenth century the lobster was largely used as 
food, being roasted in an oven and served with vinegar, its meat, 
until a recent date, being considered very nutritious. But the flesh 
of all crustaceans is difficult of digestion, owing to the peculiar 
toughness of its texture, and is likely to cause the ambitious gour- 
met serious discomfort. An attack of indigestion may follow the 



68 FOOD PKODtfCTS OF THE WORLD. 

eating of shell-fish and frequently a disturbance of the skin, pro- 
ducing an eruption. Notwithstanding these peculiarities, shell- 
fish are considered the very delicatessen of foods, preference being 
given to the lobster. It is served with condiments and, were the 
gastric juices not spurred to an unusual extent by these excitants, 
it is probable that the chances of indigestion after a midnight 
supper would be greatly increased. But so delicious is considered 
the flavor of its white, tenacious flesh that many are those who will 
continue to enjoy it in spite of risks. A certain physician, who is 
widely known as a lecturer upon hygiene and foods, declares the 
flesh of all shell-flsh unfit to be eaten owing to the dubious char- 
acter of the food consumed by them. He terms them "scavengers 
of the sea." They are usually found, it is true, in the esttiaries and 
shallows where the rivers empty into the sea, waters none too clean 
at anytime and often foul. Still, it is possible that they purify the 
refuse in assimilation, to some extent, as does the rhubarb plant or 
mushroom, which gathers nourishment from a heap of compost. 

In structure the lobster resembles the common crawfish of our 
inland creeks and consists of a thorax, terminating in a head, and an 
abdomen, called the tail. It is protected by an external shell, which 
it sheds yearly, the covering of the thoracic organs being split while 
that of the tail is cast off whole. The meat is found chiefiy in the 
tail and claws, the latter more delicate in flavor. The lobster 
breathes through branchiae or gills, portions rarely if ever eaten. The 
contents of the thorax consist mainly of liver, commonly called 
brain, which is too fatty to be digestible. Lobster catching by par- 
ties who go out in boats is considered to be as rare a sport as is 
"crabbing," the catching, when hooks are used to dislodge the quar- 
relsome creatures, being highly exciting to any unwary fisherman 
whose fingers come in contact with the treacherous claws. The 
female or hen-lobster is in greatest demand because of the eggs or 
"berries" which are found attached beneath the tail. The eggs on 
boiling change in color from black to bright red, and with the "coral" 
or ovary are valued by the chef de cuisine for garnishes and for in- 
gredients of his sauces. 

Crabs resemble lobsters in possessing an external skeleton cov- 
ering both the thorax and an insignificant tail. They are also pos- 
sessed of ten legs, the first pair of which terminate in vicious look- 
ing claws. Few of the many varieties of crab are used for food, the 
commonest being the blue or edible crab {callinectes hastatus). This 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 69 

crab inhabits the shallow waters throughout the entire extent of 
the Atlantic, Gulf and Pacific coasts and is always to be found in 
seaboard markets. In the South and East the blue crab is chiefly 
valued at that period of the year when it has cast off its old shell 
and is in a "soft-shelled" condition. It is then broiled whole for eating 
while, when hard-shelled, it may be deviled, baked and served upon 
its own dainty skeleton. The edible crab of the Pacific coast, from 
San Francisco to Puget Sound, is used only when hard-shelled on 
account of its immense size, the shell alone being as large as a 
breakfast plate. The meat of these crabs is delicious and they are 
marketed, boiled, ready for salad or other preparation. They are 
used only when caught from the deeper waters and are so plentiful 
that the finest retail for ten cents apiece. 

Crawfish, aside from minor differences, might be lobsters in 
miniature. They inhabit secluded places in both fresh and marine 
waters, appropriating for food whatever of mollusks, larvae or in- 
sects, living or dead, come in their way. Owing to their voracious 
appetites Audubon has termed them "little aquatic vultures." 
Crawfish, particularly those of the fresh waters, are but little larger 
than shrimp or prawn, although those of the rivers of Russia attain 
considerable size. 

Shrimp and prawn are tiny creatures found along the coasts of 
the United States, of Europe (specially the southern countries) and 
of Great Britain. Even upon the sea-coast, they are usually boiled 
before being marketed, the heat changing their color to a tint known 
as "shrimp pink." Prawn 
resemble crawfish in ap- 
pearance and habits and 
are larger than shrimps. 
Both are considered a 
luxurious and delicate 
food, and, although, their 
flesh is tenacious to the 
verge of elasticity, they Lobster. 

are more digestible than lobster. The tails of these tiny fish are 
the only portions eaten, although the rest of the body is often 
used for flavoring soups and sauces. Like the lobster and crab they 
are prepared with condiments. 

At the Columbian Exposition the shell-flsh industry was exten- 
sively represented. Numbers of lobster-pots were exhibited, quan- 




70 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

titles of cans coutalniug lobster meat and, to crown all, a mammoth 
lobster shell, relict of a recently defunct decapod which weighed 
twenty-three and one-half pounds. Canned lobster was sent 
from the northeastern portion of the United States, from Canada 
and from Japan; from England, lobster canned plain and with 
curry. Japan sent canned crabs; and shrimp, both canned and 
dried. Shrimp and prawn were sent from the southern of the 
United States; shrimp, dried and pickled, were sent from Mexico, 
pickled shrimp from New South Wales. The process of preparing 
shrimp and prawn by drying might to advantage be more largely 
employed in America. By such means they could be obtained at 
inland markets at a more reasonable price than now prevails. 

Of the bivalves the oyster is the most extensively used and by 
far the most highly esteemed. With a delicate and perfect flavor it 
has the advantage of a lineage antedating the descendants of the 
Tarquins and immortalized by the poets of all ages. One of the 
Greek writers calls it "the truffle of the sea," and the poets of an- 
cient Rome vied with each other as have those of the modern world 
in attempts to pictiire its seductiveness and'Charm. There may be 
persons, William Matthews suggests, who do not like oysters but, 
"like ghosts and anthropophagi, they have never appeared to us." 
The eloquence and grandeur of the old world were nourished upon 
the oyster. It was the first, intermediate, and last course at the 
Boman banquet tables and many a master of eloquence, among 
others Martial, Horace, Pliny, Seneca and Cicero, paid unto it in- 
spired and poetic tribute. The Romans were the first to establish 
oyster beds extensively and theirs became widely famous, the 
oysters being as immense as those of Louisiana and Alabama. 

After a few centuries of neglect the oyster was put permanently 
into fashion by the foppish old Louis Quatorze. It became univers- 
ally liked throughout all Europe and oyster culture has since then 
been carried on more extensively each year. 

The status of oyster culture in Europe has been most thoroughly 
investigated by Bashford Dean of Columbia College, New Yprk. 
According to his investigations the countries which now most ex- 
tensively cultivate the oyster are England, Erance, Germany, Spain, 
Portugal, Italy and the Netherlands. Italy is the home of oyster 
culture, it having been accomplished in Rome as early as the time 
of Crassus. The most noted of these culturists,of whom there were 
many, was Sgrgius Orator, a wealthy patrician. Oysters were also 



FOOD FEODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 71 

cultivated at Tarente, a prosperous and ancient city, at which place 
the most extensive beds in all Italy are located to-day. The sys- 
tem used is known as vertical or "rope-culture," ropes being used 
upon which the oysters lodge and grow to maturity. 

The oysters of England were known to the ancient world. 
The largest natural beds lie in the estuary of the Thames but 
there are also cultivated areas, the greater part of which are 
controlled directly by parliament. Lessees of these beds are com- 
pelled by law either to cultivate them or forfeit the lease. The 
process of culture consists in planting the "brood" oysters over 
areas, smooth, hard and clean of bottom and in no danger of being 
overwhelmed by mud or sand. When the tiny oysters become of 
sufllcient size they are removed to deeper waters to fatten for market. 

To quote from Mr. Dean: "The Dutch have come to be looked 
upon in Europe generally as the most successful administrators of 
the oyster industry .... an industry which not only gives 
employment to the poorer coast population, but pays into the 
national treasury, in rental of state lands hitherto absolutely profit- 
less, an annual income of nearly a half million of dollars." The 
importance of oyster culture to so small a country as Holland is ap- 
preciated when we learn that the entire cultural area of that 
country is not half as great as that of Long Island alone. The 
principal beds are those of the Zuyder Zee and of the Schelde estu- 
ary. The Dutch breed their oysters upon tiles, ranged sidewise 
in rows along the shore, and from these remove them to deeper 
waters from which they are dredged for market. The oysters of 
Holland and Ostend, Belgium, are considered valuable and of fine 
flavor in all European markets. Those known as Ostend oysters 
are those which are simply fattened at Ostend, having been origin- 
ally obtained from the cultural beds of other countries. 

The oysters of both Spain and Portugal are peculiar in shape, 
flavor and color. This is thought to be due to the physical condi- 
*tions of their locality, as they have not been successfully bred in 
any'other place. There are few, if any, cultural areas, the extended 
coast line making it possible to always depend upon the natural 
beds from which they are dredged and sold to fishermen to be 
planted in rented areas of their own. Oysters are there considered 
a cheap, and in some respects, an inferior food. 

The oyster beds of Germany are located only on the shores of 
the North Sea bordering Denmark. These beds were described as 



72 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

early as 1652 iu tlie Danish chronicle and are, by tradition, the 
property of the crown. Oyster culture has been practically a fail- 
ure in Germany, owing to the sediment and mud in the waters, lack 
of food for their growth, and the coldness of winter (Moebius). The 
oyster supply depends, therefore, upon the products of natural beds. 
The natural oyster beds along the coast of France were for 
many years considered inexhaustible and not until the last fifty 
years has oyster culture been practiced. Now the seed oysters are 
attached to roofing tile until sufficiently large to be removed to 
deeper waters to fatten for dredging. The French have encount- 
ered many obstacles in the culture of oysters owing to the physical 
conditions of their coasts and coast waters. The two principal 
species are known as the "flat" and the "Portuguese" oyster, the 
former round, the latter long and deeply ridged. The oyster grounds 
of France have long been under absolute control of the government. 
The oyster industry in America is carried on chiefly in the cele- 
brated regions of Chesapeake and Long Island, along Connecticut, 
in the southern gulf waters and along the western coasts. The 
oysters are cultivated upon shells spread carefully over smooth, 
hard bottom; in parts of Connecticut on twigs and branches, and 
in California upon frames made of bamboo. 

The chief enemies with which the young oyster has to contend 

are mud and sediment, too low 
temperature of the water during 
winter, freshets, certain species of 
periwinkle, and starfish. Beyond 
dredging no remedy for these lat- 
ter destructive agencies has been 
used in the East, though in the 
West the starfish are kept out of 
the beds by fences of bamboo, 
closely staked. 

The nutritive value of the oys- 
ter is low, though its digestibility 
renders it of great value to the in- 
Starfish Destroying an Oyster. ^a,lid. After the "fattening" process 
they bring a higher price than before, although, as the oyster does 
little more than absorb the fresh water, it is no more nutritious. 
Many still prefer the flavor of the smaller variety dredged from the 
natural bed. They contain only from twelve to fourteen per cent 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 73 

of nutriment, slightly more than mussels, this accounting for the 
fact that a quantity may be eaten at the beginning of a meal with- 
out ruining the appetite for the heavier foods which follow. One 
author relates that Vitellius once ate a thousand oysters for a meal; 
but one is inclined to take the statement with at least as much salt 
as the gluttonous old emperor must have taken with the oysters. 

Oysters are eaten only when "in season," from September to 
May, although this custom is not arbitrary. In May the spawning 
season begins and for a fev/ months they are poor and unfit for 
food, giving rise to the popular saying that they should be eaten 
only during those months the names of which contain R. There 
are over sixty varieties in existence and in general the small oyster 
is confined to temperate climates while the large varieties abound 
only in warmer waters. They have been found in lower Asia a foot in 
length and proportionately broad, and I assisted a few years ago in 
the eating of one fresh from the Gulf waters near Mobile the shell 
of which measured ten and one-half inches by four. It was as deli- 
cious as the daintiest of blue-points and as fine in flavor as any of 
the dozen little oysters clinging to its shell. The oysters found in 
the warm tides of the Pacific coast are, on the other hand, extremely 
small though excellent of flavor. 

It is considered by many that the flavor of an oyster is not im 
proved by cooking while its digestibility is diminished. For these 
reasons it is very generally eaten raw, with or without condiments, 
a custom which may have inspired the reminiscent lines written by 

Gay: 

"The man had sure a palate covered o'er 
With brass or steel, that on the rocky shore 
First broke the oozy oyster's pearly coat, 
And risked the living morsel down his throat." 
Dr. Roberts states that the greatest benefit and most enjoyment can 
be obtained from the oyster only when it is eaten raw. The dark 
colored mass or liver of the oyster is, says he, "simply a mass of 
glycogen or animal starch. Associated with the glycogen, but with- 
held from actual contact with it during life, is its appropriate 
digestive ferment, the hepatic diastase. The mere crushing of the 
oyster between the teeth brings these two bodies together, and the 
glycogen is at once digested without any other help than the dias- 
tase. The raw, or merely warmed oyster, is thus self-digestive." 
He further says that a cooked oyster has to be digested by the gas- 
tric juice of the consumer, like any other food, the heat having de- 



74 FOOD PK0DUCT8 OP THE WORLD. 

stroyed the associated ferment, while long cooking may render it 
almost indigestible. 

Owing to the inland location of the exposition, no raw oysters 
were exhibited, though there were canned, dried and spice-pickled 
oysters in abundance. 

Clams, as food, are nearly as important as the oyster, although 
chiefly used by the classes living along the coasts upon which they 
are found. They are readily marketable, are abundant and are 
easily procurable from the sandy beaches at low tide. Like the 
oyster the clam consists of a tough, fibrinous portion and a soft 
mass, the latter part more digestible. It is not highly nutritious, 
but of desirable flavor. The "little-neck" clam, peculiar to the New 
England coast, is sacred to the clam broth and that most epicurean 
feast of all, the "clam-bake." Webster used to prepare clam chowder 
for his friends at Marshfleld, and the dish is as typical of that re- 
gion as is the "Boston baked bean." Clams have been used by the 
New Englanders for centuries and several times during the early 
struggles of the Plymouth colony they were the only food remaining 
between the people and starvation. 

The early settlers of Seattle and the region about Puget sound 
are still called "clam diggers" because clams have been since the 
first a principal article of food. The round clam or "quahaug,'' 
though an indigestible morsel, possesses a fiavor suflSciently delicate 
to render it valuable in the making of clam broth. The long-neck 
clam is of small size when found on the eastern coasts of America, 
but those from Washington and Vancouver are extremely large, 
bearing about the same relation to their eastern cousins as the 
gigantic California pear to one grown upon a stony New England 
hillside. 

At the exposition there were specimens of clam broth or bouillon 
from Maine, and, in a building called the New England Clam Bake, 
clam chowder was daily served to hundreds of visitors. Dried and 
preserved clams were sent from the far Northwest, the largest speci- 
mens coming from the Vancouver Indians. The Japanese sent 
clams which were preserved by being pierced through the neck, 
hung in rows of one or two dozen upon a stick of bamboo, and in 
that way dried. 

The scallop is in greater favor in America than in Europe. It 
is procured during the summer months by dredging boats, chiefly 
in the Long Island and Cape Cod regions. The powerful adductor 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 75 

muscle, which serves to close the shell, is the only portion eaten. 

The mussel is a small salt water moUusk, about two inches in 
length, and best liked for food when about two years old. Its flesh 
is of a yellow color when cooked, being tough and somewhat indigest- 
ible. In America it is used chiefly for bait and as a fertilizer of 
land but in the European countries it has wide favor as food. Off 
the coasts of England thousands of tons are' collected and marketed 
annually and it is estimated that the mussel fishery alone of Franco 
has been worth §175,000. There they are cultivated in enclosures of 
sea water. In China, the mussel industry is extensive, large quanti- 
ties being dried for food. The mussel is eaten by only a limited 
class in America. Along the Pacific coast, particularly about San 
Francisco, mussels are abundant, those only being eaten which are 
taken from the deeper and outlying waters. Mussels found near 
the shore are poisonous, owing to their feeding upon the sewerage of 
the cities which is there emptied. 

The cockle is found along the shores of America as well as off 
EYance, England, Ireland and Holland. Immense quantities are 
consumed in the latter countries, both fresh and pickled, and as 
they cost in the market about twenty-five dollars a ton they are 
specially valuable to the poorer classes of people. 

The limpet, as well as the cockle, periwinkle and whelk, is eaten 
chiefly by the lower classes of Europe, being considered in America 
indigestible and of none too good a flavor. It is always marine, and 
is found in America adhering to the rocks along the coasts. The 
whelk is an active little gourmand, whose food consists of dead fish, 
crabs and other mollusks. Periwinkles are found upon the rocky 
shores of both Europe and -America at low tide, being largely con- 
sumed for food in the former continent. The sea-ear, or Abalone 
oyster, belongs to the limpet family. It is found in large numbers 
along the California coast. It is eaten fresh, though it is also dried, 
and often weighs a pound. It is specially valued by the Chinese, 
and is always found in their markets at San Francisco. Some idea 
of the commercial value of this moUusk as a food may be seen in the 
fact that a few years since the Abalone trade was worth $250,000 
annually. The owl-limpet is another and smaller variety, so called 
from the figure of an owl impressed upon the pearly inside coating. 
It is greatly valued as food by the Chinese, being eaten raw, 
cooked and dried. 

Many a person has laughed over the assurance of a certain nat- 



76 FOOD FBODTTCTS OF THE WORLD. 

uralist of earlier days who, in classifying animals according to their 
outward appearance, placed the turtle in the category of insects. 
For a reptile it is and must remain according to later dictum, the 
only one of its class, except the edible iguana from the Isle of Trin- 
idad, which had the honor of being exhibited in the rank and file of 
food products at the World's Columbian Exposition. The turtle 
has existed since the mesozoic period of the world's history and 
more species have been discovered in fossilized formations than are 
now in existence. It was known to the ancients, and Pliny, among 
other writers, states that boats were made of its shell. He probably 
referred to the trunk turtle, an immense animal which reaches a 
length of seven or eight feet and a weight of nearly a ton. It is 
still found in the Mediterranean but its flesh is wholly unfit for 
food. 

There is a story extant that Antony at one time gave his cook a 
city for so skilfully preparing a certain dish that it won praises 
from Cleopatra. This dish is believed to have been turtle, a meat 
largely used by the wealthier Eomans. 

Turtle is not a hygienic food, though its praises have been sung 
from time immemorial by epicures and poets. It is said that any 
meat, from pork to chicken, may be counterfeited by its various 
portions, such different flavors are possessed by its flesh. It is ten- 
der and palatable but extremely fat, rendering quantities of it cloy- 
ing to the appetite and diflacult of digestion. Doubtless its repu- 
tation as a luxury depends upon its comparative rarity and upon 
the wine, oil and condiments used in cooking it. The turtle seen 
upon our tables is a food too highly spiced and far too fat to be of 
any great value to the human system aijd is far more likely to pro- 
mote disease than to maintain health. Sailors and people living 
along the shores off which turtle may be easily obtained soon cease 
to eat it and return to a diet of dried codfish or even humbler fare 
with grateful relish. 

Mr. Bates, naturalist and author, who spent two years upon the 
Amazon where turtle is found in great abundance, states that he 
became so nauseated with the taste and odor of turtle meat that he 
suffered from hunger on several occasions when there was scarcity 
of everything else rather than eat of it. The native women cooked 
It for him in a variety of ways. A soup was made from the chopped 
entrails; the tender fiesh from the breast was minced, mixed with 
farina and roasted, and steaks from it were cooked in fat. Sausages 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 77 

were made from the stomach filled with minced meat and boiled 
and, on other occasions, a piece of the meat roasted and dipped in 
vinegar made an agreeable change. The flesh attached to the shell 
of the back is called "calipash" while that attached to the lower 
shell is known as "calipee." 

Turtle soups were largely exhibited at the exposition, the only 
soup exhibits not containing them being those sent by the western 
packing houses of America. Turtle in any form is a luxury, unob- 
tainable by those of limited means who live inland, and whoever 
eats largely of it is quite sure to demoralize his liver and bring on 
indigestion. 

There are about forty species of turtle and tortoise inhabiting 
the oceans adjacent to America, only a few of which are used for 
food. The green turtle is the most valuable, being famous for the 
soup made from its flesh. It attains a large size, sometimes weigh- 
ing a thousand pounds, and is caught in the deeper waters, usually 
by means of nets. 

Terrapin, a smaller species of the tortoise family, is found in 
both fresh and salt waters. The salt water variety is the "diamond- 
backed" luxury of epicures and is marketed at enormous prices. 
Its color is a dull brown. It is slow of growth, reaching a market- 
able size in not less than six years. It is then from six to seven 
inches long and three inches in height. The flesh is most prized 
during hibernation, when the terrapin is found buried in the mud 
of the salt marshes. There are two terrapin farms in the United 
States, one, the oldest and most famous, in Maryland, the other 
near^lofeilfij Alabama. A farm consists of alternate canals of sea 
water, cut in from the coast, and ridges of land, the whole enclosed 
by a high fence. Every terrapin caught in the ocean is taken there 
and, as they breed rapidly in the farm, the industry is profitable in 
spite of the years that elapse before they reach a marketable size. 
They retail at from forty to sixty dollars a dozen. 



CHAPTER XI. 



SOUPS AND MEAT EXTBACTS. 




T IS written that the chefs of France in the time 
of Louis, le Grand Monarque, devised "bouillon" 
and "consomm^" because mastication was con- 
sidered to be vulgar. The vast display of soups 
at the Columbian Exposition half persuaded 
one that the rest of the world had reached the 
same conclusion and lived upon nothing else. 
For so indispensable is a soup considered to 
even an ordinary dinner that the canning 
houses both at home and abroad find ready 
market for their goods. One reason that pre- 
pared soups are so largely bought is that the 
average housewife cannot prepare one in the 
limited time she is wUliag or able to give. She 
will inevitably omit the one indispensable con- 
sideration, time; for without consecrating the better part of a day 
to its making, one's soup is a failure. The making of a good soup 
is an art, and requires not only skill but tact and sympathy. Slow 
cooking is a chemical necessity, and any hastening of the process 
means ruin. 

Soup gives a great amount of nourishment while it requires of 
the system a minimum of exertion in assimilation. It soothes an 
impatient stomach into gentlest of humor and may serve as the 
major part of a meal or only as a dainty appetizer. Count Rum- 
ford, after five years of experiment in feeding the poor of Munich, 



80 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

found that the most savory, most nourishing and least expensive 
food was soup, generally made from pearl barley, potatoes, bread, 
and seasonings. But among the better classes soup is simply the 
first course of a more or less elaborate dinner. Says an author, "A 
soup is to a dinner what a portico is to a mansion; it is not merely 
the first thing to which you come but it also serves to give an idea 
of what the architect intends to do afterward." Brillat-Savarin 
says, "it rejoices the stomach and disposes it to receive and digest 
other food," and to many, a dinner without soup would be far from 
relishable. The true gourmet prefers a light soup, served hot and 
in small quantity, the heavy soups, such as the purees, creams, 
mullagatawny, and turtle soups being ruinous to the appetite and 
all too traitorous to the courses which follow. 

The lighter varieties are either extract or gelatine soups. 
Bouillon, the best known of the former kind, is made from chopped 
lean beef and, like beef tea, must be entirely free from fat. It is 
clarified with egg, strained, and may be served either hot or ice cold. 
Bouillon is a stimulant, contaiiung very little nutriment. 

Consomm^ has no English word-equivalent. It is a gelatine 
soup, richer and more nutritious than bouillon. It may or may not 
be brown, but should always be clear, various articles being added 
to the liquor at times to give it variety. It is then known by vari- 
ous names, such as consomm^ au riz, when rice is added; consomm^ 
julienne, vegetables being used; consomm^ aux petits pois, con- 
somme with green peas; or consommd d'ltalie, consomme to which 
small fancy or alphabetical pastes are added. Each cook may vary 
ingredients or flavor, providing that the jelly-like consistency is 
retained. Consomm^ and bouillon are the bases of all good meat 
soups, delicacy of flavor and aroma being their prime qualities. 

Purees are composed of meat-stock and vegetables, the latter 
being reduced through a sieve until the whole soup is of a thick, 
creamy consistency. Cream soups differ little from purees except 
in the addition of cream. Velvet soups are made of tapioca, per- 
fectly cooked and strained into the stock. These soups require the 
perfect suspension of aU. ingredients in the stock. Bisques are 
pur^e soups seasoned with crayfish and are always delicate in flavor. 
Potage is a creamy soup, resembling a pur^e. 

BouiU-abaisse is peculiarly a French dish, said to be no- 
where found of greater excellence than at Marseilles. As the name 
indicates, it is a broth reduced to some consistency by evaporation, 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 81 

being usually a fish broth. Thackeray has immortalized it in the 
following lines: 

" This Bouillabaisse a noble disb is, 

A sort of soup or broth or brew 
Or hotch pot of all sorts o( fishes, 

That Greenwich never could out do ; 
Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, safEern, 

Soles, onions, garhc, roach and dace ; 
All these you eat at Torre's tavern 

In that one dish of Bouillabaisse." 

The French have another soup called "Potage a la jambe du 
bois," or "soup of the wooden leg.'' It is made from a shin of beef 
and is served with the shin bone (the wooden leg) "emerging like 
the bowsprit of a wreck from the sea of vegetables." 

MuUagatawny soup is of East Indian origin, the name being de- 
rived from two Tamil words meaning pepper-water. Its chief ingre- 
dients are chicken, rice and curry; plenty of the latter by all means. 

Turtle soups are perhaps the most highly seasoned and most 
epicurean of all soups known to us, but as has been stated, they are 
far from being hygienic articles of diet. 

The superiority of good soups over bad lies largely in the flavor- 
ings. "Bay-leaf," it has been said, "is to soups what vanilla is to 
sweets;" anZTlEe bouquet garni of the French consists of parsley, 
thyme, laurel, bay and cloves, with or without a small onion. 

The different varieties of soups exhibited at the Columbian Ex- 
position were green turtle, mock turtle, terrapin, consomm^, bouil- 
lon. Julienne, ox-tail, chicken broth, chicken with rice, with curry, 
with gumbo and with tomato; purees of peas, green peas, corn and 
game; creams of asparagus and celery; mullagatawny, beef with 
barley, mutton broth, and soups of oyster, hare, game, kidney and 
venison. 

The Australian soups differed from the others in being con- 
centrated untU quite solid and gelatinous. Both the French and 
English sent "dessicated soups," consisting of dessicated meat and 
vegetables which require cooking for some time in a quantity of 
water before being used. Both of these preparations are eminently 
valuable in army or navy or for the use of travelers who are com- 
pelled to carry their own food supplies. 

Meat extracts are a perpetual monument to the fallibility of 
popular as well as scientific opinion. When Baron Liebig first gave 
to the world his fluid extract of beef he believed it to contain all the 



82 FOOD PEODaCTS OF THE WORLD. 

nutriment necessary for the maintainance of health and vigor in 
any person using it. The world in general and doctors in particular 
accepted this new gospel because of the prestige of Baron Liebig's 
name. Physicians of a generation ago have much to answer for, as 
it is now believed that many a patient may have been actually 
starved to death on Liebig's extraetum earnis. 

Thirty-four pounds of lean beef are required to make one 
pound of extract. Pat, gelatine and albumin are excluded, leaving 
only the salts and extractive flavors, principles which are of little 
nutritive value. The extract contains the creatine of the beef 
which is to meat what theine is to tea or caffeine to coffee; and it 
also contains the ozmazone which gives to meat extracts their pecu- 
liarly aromatic flavor. Beef extract is therefore not nutritious, 
although valuable in any exhausted condition of the system because 
of its stimulating and restorative properties. By promoting organic 
activity in systems which are debilitated it is far more valuable 
than alcoholic stimulants, because of the absence of depressing 
secondary effects. 

Beef extract is a valuable adjunct in every household because 
of its appetizing qualities and for the,.^vorit may impart to various 
kinds of soups. Its use as a refreshment produces such tonic and 
stimulating effects that it is now served hot in nearly every drug 
store or restaurant in America. The best American beef ex- 
tracts are in every respect equal to those of Liebig. 

Meat extracts are both fluid and solid, though it is not always 
wise to decide in favor of the latter. There are a few solid extracts 
on the market consisting more largely of gelatine than of extractive 
principle. One beef tonic, consisting of pulverized beef and beef 
extract, is valuable because a greater amount of nutrition is con- 
tained than in the simple extract. 




CHAPTER XII. 



CONDIMENTS, SPICES AND FLAVORS. 



MAXIM as ancient as the time of Democritus of Abdera 
reads: "Whatever pleases the palate nourishes." Modern 
science has proven the truth of this maxim and has given 
us acceptable reason vphy condiments are no more 
necessary in palace of connoisseur than in hut of 
barbarian, why they are as eagerly used by the native 
of Labrador as by the swarthy son of the tropics; why they are the 
property of Mohammedan, Confucian, Buddhist, Gentile and Jew, 
of all castes, races and civilizations. * Acting principally upon the 
nervous system through the sense of smell, condiments stimulate 
the flow of both the saliva and the gastric juices. They materially 
aid digestion, and the familiar phrase, "to make the mouth water," 
states a physiological fact. From this standpoint the fragrant 
aroma of steaming coffee and the savory odor of a stew are as truly 
condiments as pepper and salt; for condiments are the magic wand 
which transform most commonplace of foods into essences, subtle 
and delicious. They are equally appropriate to the steaming potage 
of the French peasant and the sacrificial altars of Palestine and 
Greece. Nothing more closely tests the skill of the cook than his 
use of these appetizing flavors. Like genii of the fairy tale, they 
are willing, versatile and obedient as slaves; when master their 
pathway is likely to be strewn with sorrowful though most aromatic 
wrecks of soups and hors d'ceuvres. They should permeate foods as 
incense does the atmosphere, delicate, impalpable and as indescrib- 
able as they are requisite. The too abundant use of a certain condi- 
ment or spice, the lack of another or the injudicious mingling of 
certain others will ruin the finest pudding, sauce or soup over 
compounded, 
7 



8i FOOD niODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

Condiments and spices are as ancient as civilization. The 
oldest books of the scriptures, notably Exodus, Leviticus, Job and 
the Canticles, make frequent reference to salt and spices, sub- 
stances which were costly and chiefly dedicated to royalty and the 
uses of temple and altar. The Greeks followed the Semitic customs 
to some extent in their disposition of spices, not using them as 
largely in their food as have later races. They were fond of aromatic 
flavorings and it is said that the laurels of Greece, of which the 
cinnamon is a species, possessed that quality to a greater extent 
than those of any other country, although all laurels have aromatic 
leaves. 

Homer in the Iliad refers with naive surprise to those people 
unaccustomed to the use of salt, and in the ninth book pictures 
Patroclus as 

"He strows a bed of glowing embers wide, 

Above the coals the smoking fragments turns. 

And sprinkles sacred salt upon the urns." 

By the mediaeval Bomans condiments were well liked. They 
made, according to one author, a pickle from the tunny flsh, just as 
their languorous descendants are doing to-day, and also prepared a 
condiment from the intestipes of the mackerel. "Liver of the 
capon, steeped in milk and beccaflcoes, and dressed with pepper" 
was another of their highly seasoned dishes. 

In the thirteenth century Dante, in the description of the 
alchemists and forgers of the tenth gulf of the Inferno, refers to 
one Niccolo of Siena "who flrst the spice's luxury discovered." 
Contemporary with him in England, Wm. Langland, in his "Vision 
of Piers the Plowman," inquires if thou "hast in thy purse any hot 
spices?" 

Frequent reference by the writers of that day Indicates that 
these substances were expensive and used mainly by the luxurious. 
Venice had for many years controlled the trade in spices, which 
were brought overland from the Orient in immense caravans, and 
not until Diaz and Vasco de Gama, in the fifteenth century, rounded 
the Cape of Good Hope did their costliness diminish. After that 
event spices and condiments ceased to be regarded merely as luxu- 
ries and became as necessary to the plainest of soups as to the 
Puree de volaille a la Bearnise of the French chef. 

All classes of people use condiments in some form, from the 
wealthy epicure who flavors his terrapin with mace, salt, pepper 



FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



Vegetable^ 



AEOMATIOS 



and sherry to the negro who sifts okra through his fingers into his 
gumbo soup or the Indian, stirring the contents of a steaming kettle 
with twigs of sassafras. 

Condiments have been defined as those substances eaten with 
meat and combined with salt while spices are chiefly added to 
articles containing sugar. They may be classified as follows: 

'Clove, cinnamon, cassia-bud, pimento or 
allspice, nutmeg, mace, cardamon, pepper, 
cumin, coriander, fenugreek, grains of 
Paradise, anise, dill, caraway, basil, chervU, 
celery, fennel, bay-leaves, summer savory, 
parsley, thyme, sage, sweet marjoram, 
mint, tarragon, onion, leek, garlic, saffron, 
capers, turmeric and curry powder. 

{Mustard, 
horse-radish, 
chillies, 
ginger. 

MlNEKAL-{ Salt. 

Animal ■{ Pastes and essences of shrimp, lobster, bloater, anchovy, etc. 

Sattces \ Chutney, Tabasco, lime juice, Worcestershire, ketchup, 
( carachi, cassareep and soy. 

■PTr.c-T T.O S Various vegetables and fruits, such as cucumber, olive, 
i-iCKLES j sanpiiire, etc. 

Flavors ^ VanUIa, tonka bean, almond, chocolate, orange and 
I various fruits. 

Acids ■{ Vinegar, lime juice, lemon juice, verjuice. 

rir.T.T.TATC! ( Cura^oa, Noyau, Eatafla, anisette, kuemmel, absinthe, 
l-obdials I Chartreuse, Maraschino, etc. 

Salt is even more valuable as a condiment than as a preservative. 
It is used in every staple article of cookery and, as has been said, 
'Plutarch was right when he styled salt the condiment of condi- 
ments." Cereals and vegetables are tasteless without the addition 
of that mysterious quantity, "a pinch of salt," bread is insipid with- 
out a dash of it, as also are cakes and puddings. Meats, when so 
cooked that their own salts are not extracted, as when roasted, are 
more palatable without additional salt than any other food so 
prepared. 

Though salt is unused because unattainable by certain barbaric 
peoples, such as the Bedouins, it is considered to be a necessity by 
all others. Aristptje relates that in Greece a salt spring was be- 



86 



FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



lieved to be a direct gift of the gods, salt always comprising part of 
the religious offerings. Salt is referred to in the Scriptures more 
than a score of times. In Leviticus we find the command that 
"every oblation of thy meat offering shall be seasoned with salt." 
In Job occurs the question "can that which is unsavory be eaten 
without salt?" The Biblical comparison to salt which has lost its 
savor refers to the custom still retained in Oriental countries of 
adulterating with earth the salt which finds its way to the extremely 
poor who can not pay the original high price. ;, So costly was salt 
in the ancient world that the old caravan routes were first formed 
for traffic in this article. The "Salarian Way" of Home was so 
named because of its immense commerce in salt and to this day the 
trade route across the Sahara is by this means mainly supported. 
Recently the salt beds of Europe and the salt mines and wells of 
the western hemisphere have made this 
article so abundant that its cheapness 
effectually protects it from adulteration. 
Cloves are the unexpanded fiowers of 
an evergreen tree found in the East Indies 
and indigenous to the Molucca Islands. 
They are called by the Chinese "fragrant 
naUs" owing to the peculiar shape of the 
dried clove buds, and the English word is 
derived from the Latin clavim, and French 
clou, also meaning nail. It is doubtful 
if cloves were known to the Greeks or 
Romans, the Venetians having first ob- 
tained them from the Arabians, while the 
clove trade was later monopolized by 
the Portuguese. Then it was owned by 
the Dutch who expelled the Portuguese from the Spice Islands in 
1605. The Dutch made great effort to control the entire spice trade 
of these islands, which was a source of abundant wealth, and were 
even known to furnish the market with the adulterated article, the 
oil of clove being extracted by pressure and the buds being given a 
fresh appearance by a glai"^ of olive oil. They also preserved the 
mother clove, or fully developed fruit. This resembles an olive in 
appearance and, being less pungent in flavor than the bud, makes a 
dainty sweetmeat. The clove tree is not hardy and grows best when 
planted in loamy soil, sheltered from the winds by the hills, It has 




Clove. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 87 

been introduced into the West Indies and Guiana. Cloves from the 
Moluccas and Ceylon are more valuable, being richer in oil, darker 
in color and far more aromatic. 

Cinnamon is the inner bark of a tree allied to the laurels. It is 
indigenous to Ceylon and the Penang Islands although believed by 
some authorities to have originally come from China, where it has 
flourished since the remotest times. As it is mentioned in the Old 
Testament it is conjectured that the Hebrews obtained it from the 
Arabians who in turn procured it from India. Later it was men- 
tioned by HerodotuS. It is known that Hippocrates used cinnamon 




Cassia Buds. 
^nedicinaUy and the modern medical world has but recently made 
cassi§u^ In shape and size they resemble cloves, in aroma, cinnamon, 
and are usually preserved whole for sweetmeats or spices. Cassia 
is mentioned by Moses as an ingredient of the holy oil, in Psalms as 
a perfume and in Ezekiel as a spice. 

Allspice, sometimes called Jamaica pepper "and properly, 
pimento, is native to the Island of Jamaica and has not been suc- 
cessfully cultivated outside of the West Indies. The pimento tree 
yis an evergreen of the myrtlebloom family, all of which are exotic 
\he discovery that oil of cinnamon is a valuable antiseptic and 
germicide. Not until 150C was cinnamon discovered wild in Ceylon 
and not until 1770 was it improved by cultivation. The tree grows 
to a height of twenty and occasionally tmrty feet, although, as the 
bark from the young shoots is of finer flavor, that only is used. 
Cinnamon shrubs are cultivated in fields, the finest being located in 
the region of Colombo, Ceylon. The shoots, which grow in clusters 



88 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

of from four to ten, are out to the roots twice a year, after the rains. 
The epidermis is peeled off, the bark is put up in bundles about 
forty inches long and thus dried and marketed. Three grades are 
exported, the finest, thin, of a brownish yellow color, fragrant and 
sweet of odor and correspondingly high of price. It is also adulter- 
ated with cassia bark, a cheaper production. 

Cassia is the inner bark of a species of cinnamon called Chinese 
cinnamon or cassia lignea. The greater part of it is exported from 
CJiina. The bark is put up in bundles about half the length of 
cinnamon bark and is more pungent and less sweet of flavor. Cassia 
buds are the unripened fruits of the tree which produces Chinese 
trees, and reaches a height of thirty feet. The allspice of commerce 
consists of the berries of this tree, exported whole after being dried, 
and so called because their aroma resembles that of cloves, cinna- 
mon, juniper and nutmeg. The berries are gathered when green, 
being left on the twigs until dried by the sun, by which means all 
the essential oil is retained. 

Nu^Jteg is the kernel of the fruit of an exotic evergreen tree 
native to the Banda and other of the East Indian islands. In ap- 
pearance it resembles the orange, yielding fruit 
l'^^^^'^ when eight or nine years of age and bearing 

for fifty or sixty years. It requires a light soil, 
moisture and shade, and cannot be propagated 
in regions in which these conditions are not 
I present. The tree bears fruit during most o^ 
the year, in the Molucca and other islands three 
crops a year being gathered. The fruit, which 
requires nine months in which to mature, is 
Nutmeg. ■ carefuUy dried before the pericarp is removed 

and the kernel taken out. There are three varieties, the ma.le or 
barren, the royal and the queen, the last, a small, round nutmeg, 
considered most valuable. The inferior nutmegs are used for the 
extraction of nutmeg butter or oil, known as "oil of mace." Aboutj ' 
six per cent of volatile oil is contained. It is stated that moice nut- 
megs are exported to the United States than to all Europe. The 
Dutch formerly preserved the entire fruit, kernel and pericarp, in a 
syrup of sweet vinegar for a sweetmeat. This nation when in con- 
trol of the spice trade of certain of the East Indian islands made 
strenuous efforts to confine the nutmeg tree to the Bandas. But 
the "nutmeg bird," a species of blue pigeon, frustrated their designs 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 89 

by scattering the nuts all over the islands after feeding upon their 
pulpy covering. So determined at one time were the Dutch to keep 
the price of nutmegs high that, if an unusually large harvest oc- 
curred, part of it was burned by them. 

Mace is the reticulated aril covering the kernel. When fresh, it 
is of a crimson color, reaching the golden tint only when dried and 
after some months. In its properties it is similar to the nutmeg. 
The leaves of the nutmeg tree as well as the fruit are highly aromatic. 
The cardamon is a member of the ginger family and is native to 
Malabar, Madagascar and Ceylon. That from the latter country 
is of quite large size. It consists of a rhizome or root stock from which 
rise tall, flag-like leaves. The flower stem springs directly from the 
root and is much shorter, bearing racemiform clusters of small 
white flowers. The fruit consists of greenish pods half an inch in 
length, each pod being three capsuled and containing numerous 
seeds. These seeds are pungent in flavor and constitute the valu- 
able part of the plant. The pods are dried slowly as rapid drying 
causes them to split, thereby losing the seeds. Cardamon seeds 
were used by the ancient Greeks both as a spice and as medicine. 
Pepper, with cinnamon, salt and incense, was 
one of the staple commodities which anciently 
passed over the caravan routes between Venice 
and India. At that time its price was extremely 
high and, according to E. M. Holmes, rents were 
frequently paid in this article as late as the 
middle ages. After the sack of Rome by the 
barbarians one of the articles of tribute demanded 
by Alaric was a thousand pounds of pepper. As 
late as the eighteenth century the pepper trade was 
confined to the Portugese. In recent years it has 
become one of the cheapest of our spices. 
The pepper plant is a vine, of the order piperacece, which grows 
wild in China, is also indigenous to Malabar and other islands of 
the East Indies, and has been introduced into the V/est Indies. 
The plants require a rich moist soil, bearing after the fourth year 
and continuing fruitful for from eight to fourteen years. The most 
famous of the pepper islands are the Penang, which furnish more 
than half the amount produced by the entire East Indies. Only 
the berries of the pepper plant are valuable and those, being 
gathered before fully developed, have a wrinkled appearance when 




00 FOOD PBODPCTS OF THE WOELD. 

dried. The berries used for white pepper are decorticated either in 
the islands or in London and reach the United States ready for 
grinding. The finest grade passes through more than twenty dif- 
ferent operations before it is considered marketable. 

Black pepper differs from the white in the leaving on of the 
hull, which is black and contains the acrid principles of the flavor. 
Hence, white pepper is less pungent and fully as fine in flavor as 
the black. Shot pepper consists of the finest berries, those richest 
in oil. It is selected by throwing a quantity of the berries in water. 
Those which sink are collected, labeled, and sold as shot pepper. 

Long pepper, referred to by the Greeks as piperi maoron, is the 
unripe fruit of a species of pepper, an inch or more in length and 
and shaped like a spike. The flavor is similar to that of ordinary 
black pepper. African pepper is another variety. Those best 
known to the western markets are Penang, Tellicherry and Malabar. 
Cumin or cummin is a small herbaceous plant, native to Egypt 
and very early cultivated in the Mediterranean countries. It is now 
grown in India, Sicily and Malta, the seeds only being valuable. 
These contain a large proportion of essential oil which gives them 
an aromatic but acrid flavor. They are not now used in cookery 
though receipts are still extant which prove them to have once 
been considered a valuable culinary spice. The Latin poets relate 
that the ancients used cumin seeds medicinally, their effect being 
to produce languor. They ai'e referred to in Isaiah as being 
"beaten out with a rod" and also in the Mosaic law regarding tithes. 

Coriander is a small umbelliferous 
plant native to the eastern of the Mediter- 
ranean countries but now cultivated quite 
generally in both Europe and America. 
The fruits, erroneously called the seeds, 
are nearly always mentioned in the earlier 
recipes for meats and puddings and to 
this day many a country housewife consid- 
ers them indispensable to the flavoring of 
dried apple pies. The plant grows wild 
in all parts of Palestine, especially in the 
Coriander. Jordan valley. 

Fenugreek is an herbaceous plant allied to the clover. It is 
native to the Asiatic countries and is still cultivated in France and 
Germany. The seeds were formerly used as a spice, but now only 




FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



91 



as an ingredient of curry powder, owing to their strong, bitter and 
unpleasant flavor. 

Grains of Paradise are the dried seeds of a reed-like plant allied 
to the ginger family and indigenous to western Africa. The fruit 
which contains the seeds is four or five inches in length and of a 
bright red color. The seed are now ne ver used, excepting occasionally 
by brewers. Formerly they were esteemed as a spice for cookery 
and were one of the ingredients of the famous Norwich herring pies 
of old England. In flavor they are extremely hot and pungent. 

Anise is a little annual of the order umbelliferse and scarcely 
more than a foot in height. It is indigenous to Europe, although 
cultivated in many of the northern Med- 
iterranean countries. The seeds are pow- 
erful aromatics, used both medicinally 
and in the preparation of a liqueur called 
"anisette," which is to the Italians what 
kuemmel is to the Germans. The star 
anise is a tree allied to the ma^olias, 
the seeds of which are stronger and less 
pleasant of flavor than those of the com- 
mon anise. They are called star aniseed 
from the star-like shape of the fruit. 
The anise mentioned in the New Testa- 
ment as part of the tithes "is a different 
plant, believed to be dill. 

Dill is a small herb, native to Spain, 
which produces umbelliferous stalks of 
yellow flowers. It is still cultivated in 
portions of temperate Europe. An aro- 
matic oU is extracted from the tiny seeds 
which are also used, whole, for flavoring 
pickles. 

Caraway is also an umbelliferous 
plant growing wild in the meadows and 
pastures of both Europe and Asia. It is 
cultivated for its mildly aromatic seeds, 
although in the northern countries of 
Europe the root, which resembles the 
parsnip, is also eaten. No aromatic of temperate climates is more 
common than the dainty, white-blooming plant growing in the 




Caraway. 



92 



FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 









kitchen gardens of both hemispheres. Its seeds are used for the 
spicing of cheese, cakes and candies, and in Germany in the rye 
bread called "ktimmel-brod," which is universally eaten. The 
seeds are also used in the making of an aromatic cordial called 
"ktimmel." 

Basil is not now used as extensively in cooking 
as formerly. Its native haunts are India and Persia, 
although since it yields gracefully to culture, it is 
to be found in many old-fashioned kitchen gardens. 
Its aromatic properties are similar to those of other 
I J. / garden herbs. 

V("*<S»T^ Chervil is an umbelliferous annual possess- 

ing aromatic leaves and somewhat resembling 
parsley in flavor. It is used in Europe as a pot- 
herb for soups and stews, but is chiefly known in 
America as cpe of the obsolete delicacies which 
deserve to be still popular. The root, which is 
fleshy and fusiform in shape, is cooked and eaten 
. .„ by the people of southern Europe. 
'\i Celery is a veritable plebeian, originally grow- 

-y*- ing wild in the ditches and fens of Europe, a 
/ coarse, offensive and poisonous vegetable. Few 

plants are so susceptible to the influences of culti- 
vation and it is difficult to recognize its unaristo- 
cratic prototype in the tender, white and aromatic stalks of the 
garden product. It belongs to the parsley family and every portion 
13 useful to the cook, from the daintily curled tops which may be 
used for both flavor and garnish, the stalks which may be eaten 
plain, dressed raw in salad or cooked, to the seeds, the flavor of 
which makes even the poorest of soups relishable. The seeds are 
now commonly ground for the making of "celery salt" or "celery 
pepper," as the same product is variously called. A variety of 
celery, called celeriae, is cultivated in certain European countries, 
notably Germany, the root only, which is large and fleshy, being 
eaten. The famous "wild celery" of Chesapeake Bay is simply "eel- 
grass," an aquatic plant which bears no relationship whatever to the 
umbelliferse, of which order celery is a species. 

Fennel is an umbelliferous plant, native to portions of temper- 
ate Europe and Asia, especially Portugal. The fruits possess an 
aromatic flavor while the tender shoots are used for salad. The 




Basil. 



FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 



93 




plant and its culinary value was weU known to the Bomans, and it is 
to-day cultivated in both Europe and America. The fruits of the 
European fennel are used in the making of an aromatic drink, 
while in America the plant is chiefly cultivated for its leaves. It 
has been said that fennel is to fish what mint is to lamb, and in cer- 
tain of the southern states mackerel is considered of too strong a 
flavor to be eaten unless cooked with fennel. The fennel thus used 
grows wild, the green leaves being tied in bunches and boiled with 
the flsh. 

Bay leaves are the 
leaves of a shrub be- 
longing to the laurel 
tribe, which grows wild 
in the Mediterranean 
countries. Among the 
Greeks the bay leaf was 
consecrated to the uses 
of poetry, heroism and 
religion. Not until later 
times was it used as a 
Bay Leaves. flavoring for foods and 

for the decoration of various dishes. It grows wild in certain of the 
the southern states but the leaves are usually exported from 
Europe, dried. The leaves are used in soups, stews and pickles and, 
although the average housewife finds it next to impossible to procure 
them, scarcely a recipe for these articles of food but includes bay 
leaves among its flavorings. 

Summer savory is a hardy little annual which has long grown 
wild in southern Europe and is now largely cultivated for culinary 
use. Both the summer and winter savories are fragrant and are 
valuable in the seasoning of sausages and gravies. 

Parsley is a native of the island of Sardinia and, having been 
improved in both fragrance and appearance by culture, is more val- 
uable than any other herb for the garnishing of dishes. Its curled, 
crisp, green leaves give the poorest salad or meat a tempting ap- 
pearance, well sustained by the fineness of flavor it imparts. 
Its flavor somewhat resembles that of celery. The little herb 
may be seen in nearly every garden during the summer months 
and often in a pot, or kitchen window-box during the winter, from 
which it may be plucked fresh daUy. The experienced cook would 



94 



FOOD PKODDCTS OF THE WOELD. 



part with any other half dozen condiments more willingly than 
with parsley. The plant belongs to the uvibelliferce, which order in- 
cludes the carrot, parsnip and celery. It is said to have come 
originally from Egypt and mythology represents Hercules as adorn- 
ing his head with its curled leaves. 




Thyme. 

Thyme, a little under shrub native to the Mediterranean coun- 
tries, is allied botanically to sage, summer savory and sweet basil. 
It possesses very small leaves and whorls of tiny, lilac-colored 
flowers, from which thymol or oil of thyme, a valuable germicide, is 
distilled. In flavor it is fragrant and aromatic and it may be 
readily cultivated in gardens. The wild thyme of our banks "where 
ox-lips and the nodding violet grows," is a difiPerent variety of the 
same order. Its name is derived from the Greek word thumos, 
meaning incense or perfume. 

Sage is a small plant of the order labiatce, and is native to 
southern Europe. It has been so greatly changed by cultivation 
that little semblance of the original plant now remains in the sage 
of our gardens excepting the flavor. It was known to the ancients 
and to-day its fragrant, grayish green leaves constitute one of our 
commonest flavorings. 

It was an Englishman who once said that "mint made lamb out 
of an old sheep"! Perhaps he loved it also because of the legend 
that it once existed in the form of a beautiful maiden, transformed 
by Persephone into the modest aromatic of our gardens. The mint 
designated is that member of the labiate family knov/n as spear- 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



B5 



mint, native to Europe but grown in all portions of the United 
States and largely marketed. It is a small, green herb, the leaves 




Mint, 
being highly aromatic and, when bruised, yielding a valuable essen- 
tial oil. It is equally liked in the mint sauce so indispensable to 
mutton and the mint- julep — 

" This cordial julep here, 
That flames and dances in his crystal bounds." 

Sweet marjoram grows wild in Spain and Portugal and, in a 
cultivated state, throughout Europe and the United States. It is a 
member of the mint family and, like spear mint, possesses aromatic 
leaves. 

Tarragon is a small, aromatic herb, native to 
Liberia. It is cultivated in Europe and is the 
estragon of the French, who use the young 
plants largely for salads. It is hardy, and is 
grown extensively in America, being used for 
flavoring vinegar, mustard and pickles. Tarra- 
gon vinegar, from the excellence of its flavor, 
should have a place in every household. 

The onion is believed to have originated in 
Egypt although it was known in very early times 
in India. In the former country it was wor- 
Tarragon. shiped as a deity. "Cucumbers, and the melons, 

find the leeks, and the onions, and the garlick" formed the daily 




96 FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

food of the Israelites in Egypt. Italy and Spain are now noted for 
the immense size of the onions grown there, as also are the Bermuda 
Islands. Those of the latter place possess a far milder flavor, a 
condition due to soil and climate. The flavor of onion, when strong, 
is unpleasant to some people to a nauseating degree and it is hard 
to see in it any resemblance to its dainty cousins, the lily and the 
hyacinth. But when skillfully used it is a valuable and wholesome 
culinary condiment and is more largely employed by the average 
cook than the uninitiated ever suspect. Says one author: "The 
onion is the sheet ancho^, of the skillful cook. It is impossible to 
prepare the delicate Bordelaise sauce without resorting to the use 
of onions and a shade of garlic, .... and it is the judicious use 
of these two seasonings that stamps the expert cook." 

The leek is a member of the onion family, similar in flavor, 
although milder, and the leaves of which are flat instead of tubular. 
It has been stated that in England the leek was once considered to 
be the typical plant, both onion and garlic being but species. The 
diet of the soldiers of ancient Greece was at one time leeks and 
cheese, a custom which Bulwer has satirized in a Neo-Greek out- 
burst of rhyme: 

" Away, away, with the helm and greaves, 
Away with the leeks and cheese ! 
I have conquered my passion lor wounds and Wows, 
And the worst that I wish to the worst of my foes 
Is the glory and gain 
Of a year's campaign 
On a diet of leeks and cheese!" 

Garlic possesses an onion-like bulb around which smaller bulbs 
cluster, the whole covered by a membranous outer layer. 
Each bulb is described as a "clove'' of garlic and in 
flavor is far more demonstrative than onion. Shallot, 
on the contrary, is the daintiest of the onion tribe, 
growing from a cluster of roots and never forming a 
compact bulb. 

Saffron, a plant of the crocus family, was largely 
used in mediseval Europe as a condiinent, although to- 
Garlic. day its value as a coloring substance is considered of 
most account. The coloring matter is obtained from the stigmas of 
the flower, which are of a deep orange hue. The plant grows wild 
in Asia Minor, is possibly native to Arabia, and has long been ex- 
tensively cultivated throughout the Mediterranean countries, That 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



exported from Spain is considered the finest. At one time in Ger- 
many the adulteration of saffron was held criminal and punishable 
by death. History records the burning, in 1444, of a man with his 
adulterated saffron and, a dozen years later, the burning of two men 
and a woman for a similar offense. The salutary effect of this pen- 
alty was not permanent, however, as it is to-day extensively adulter- 
ated with a cheaper article known as safflower. In the Orient, a few 
nations still add saffron to their rice both for flavor and color 
while in Europe it is now most largely used for coloring macaroni, 
vermicelli and other pastes. Saffron is mentioned in the Old Testa- 
ment in connection with spikenard, cinnamon and other spices, and 
appears to have been used by the early Greeks medicinally, and as 
both dye and perfume. 

Capers are the unopened flowers of a 
low, trailing shrub which grows wild in 
Africa and southern Europe. It is native 
to Italy and is said to have grown wild 
upon the walls of ancient Rome. It is 
cultivated in Prance, only the small, gray- 
ish green, flower buds being of commercial 
value. They possess an aromatic and 
slightly pungent flavor and, when pre- 
served as is usual in either salt or vinegar, 
are used for flavoring gravies, being well- 
nigh indispensable in the serving of roast 
mutton. Four or five grades of capers 
are exported, the finest grade consisting 
of the tiniest and most perfect buds 
which gradually diminish in value as they 
increase in size. 

Turmeric, while classed with condiments owing to its pungent 
and aromatic properties, is most extensively used as a coloring 
agent. It is obtained from the root of the curcuma longa, a plant 
allied to the ginger lamily and native to India and Annam. It is 
used as a condiment only by the Orientals who fiavor their rice with 
it, its greatest value to the cooking world being due to the fact that 
it is one of the chief ingredients of curry powder. 

Curry powder is a manufactured condiment, one of the most 
aromatic and highly seasoned used. It originated in the East 
Indies, through the skUl of whom it is not known. The story goes 




Capers. 



98 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

that the famed and delicious cookery of the Orient came about in 
this fashion. The early English, French and Dutch, when setting 
out for the East Indies, each determined to seize and appropriate 
the islands, spices and all; for fear of being compelled to eat poor 
and unappetizing food took with them their most accomplished 
cooks. Prom the friendly concourse of these chefs arose certain 
of the celebrated eastern dishes, and from its ingredients it is easy 
to believe that curry was one of them; for in it are united, with the 
herbs of the temperate zones, the spices and fruits of the tropics. 
The ingredients used vary in character and in proportion according 
to the difEerent houses or localities manufacturing it. One recipe 
calls for the following: turmeric, black pepper, cayenne pepper, nut- 
meg, ginger, cloves, cinnamon, allspice, cardamon seeds, coriander 
seeds, cumin seeds, caraway seeds and fenugreek. In India the fol- 
lowing ingredients are sometimes used, besides those above named: 
anise, almonds, asaf oetida, butter (ghee), cocoanut and cocoa oil, 
cream and curds, various nuts, garlib, lime juice, mangoes, saffron, 
salt, and tamarinds. In India alone there exist nearly forty 
different methods of preparing curry, to which list might be added 
the recipes of the numerous spice houses of Europe and America. 
The ingredients of cun-y are always finely ground and well mixed. 
When lime-juice and butter or oil are added to the curry, a paste is 
prepared. This is preserved by being packed in earthen jars. The 
curries and curry pastes of Ceylon and Java (these being often com- 
bined with garlic) are quite as celebrated as those of India, while 
the English and American preparations rank enviably high. 

The mustard of commerce consists of the pulverized seed of the 
mustard plant, which grows wild in England and which may be 
cultivated in nearly every part of the globe, even in India. The use 
of mustard as a condiment dates from the Elizabethan age, although 
it was used medicinally by the most celebrated physicians of 
antiquity. \Jt was first compounded in its present form for table 
use by an old lady of Durham, frbm which circumstance it came to 
be widely celebrated as "Durham mustard." One of the merchants, 
to whom this industrious old lady sold her mustard, is credited with 
saying that he owed his wealth, not to the mustard which people 
ate but to that which they left on their plates. Two varieties of 
mustard are cultivated, ^ne producing white_seeds, the other, seeds 
which are tiny and black. Both varieties of seeds are used, whole, in 
the spicing of pickles. iFis requisite that mustard possess good keep- 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



ing qualities, that it be of a bright yellow color, and have an aro- 
matic as -well as pungent flavor. 




Mustard. 

Horse-radish is a plant allied to the nasturtium and, like the 

seeds and stems of the latter, possesses a sharply pungent flavor. It 

is native to England and western Europe 

although cultivated in nearly all portions of 

the temperate zone. The root, which is large 

and fleshy, is grated, mixed with salt and 

vinegar, and used as a condiment. It may be 

prepared in season and bottled, either with 

vinegar or dessicated, keeping for use during 

the remainder of the year. 

Ginger is a flag-Uke plant, probably native 

to the Bast and West Indies, the rhizomatous 

root of which is the only portion commercially 

valuable. According to some authorities ginger 

was known to the earliest of the Greeks and 

Romans and has been a common spice among 

the nations of Europe,including England, since 

the eleventh century. Under the Plantagenets 

and Tudors ginger was used as a flavoring for 

meats, unlike the modern custom of using it 

only in curries, cakes and beverages. To-day 

Ginger. ginger is exported from both the Indies, that 

8 




1(10 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

from Jamaica being particularly fine, from Africa, from China, from 
India and from Borneo. The African ginger is of excellent flavor 
but of dark color. It is chiefly sold to bakers. That from Borneo 
is good for household use, having a sweet and aromatic flavor and con- 
taining very little fibre. From Calcutta the "race" or "hand" ginger 
is exported, so called because of the palmate shape of the root. 
It is exported before being decorticated and is not a high grade 
ginger. The root is often preserved in sugar, being taken when 
young and succulent. It may be preserved whole or cut into 
cubes or slices. Both preserved and dried it is largely exported 
from China and Japan. 

Chili is the Spanish name for the p od of the cayepne. 
the Guinea pepper, and other species of capsicum . 
Capsicum is a me mber of the night shade family, i n no 
way relat ed t o the true ^pepper. It is native to tropical 
America,~"aIthough now found in nearly all of the 
warmer countries. Cayenne is the pod of the capsicum 
pulverized to extreme fineness. It should be of a dull, 
red color and, if very red, is quite likely to be adulter- 
ated, often with red lead or vermilion. Cayenne pep- 
Chill Pepper, per is, perhaps, the most acrid and pungent aromatic 
used and is also valuable medicinally. There are many varieties of 
capsicum, the most noted being the capsicum annum, cultivated in 
the East Indies, in Mexico and southern parts of the United States, 
and from which cayenne pepper is made; and the capsicum frutes- 
cens, the Guinea or bird pepper, a much smaller pod and which, 
dried whole, is most often used in cookery. "Chilis are used in enor- 
mous quantities by natives of hot countries, a paradoxical custom it 
appears to be, and the hottest, most "peppery" dishes known have 
originated where the sunbeam is nearest vertical. Those best 
known to Americans are the chili con came and the chicken tomale 
of Mexico. In the southern states cayenne is customarily added to 
all meats, soups and stews.\. Capsicum is an agreeable and valuable 
stimulant, having the medicinal effect of alcohol without disastrous 
results from its use. 

Mixed seasonings are now to be found in nearly aU markets and 
in point of convenience deserve to be popular. They consist of the 
aromatic herbs and spices, mixed and prepared by experts and in- 
tended for the seasoning of poultry and meats of all kinds. 

Penang or mixed spices, are also a modem preparation and are 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 101 

useful in cooking, pickling and preserving. They consist of aromatic 
and pungent spices mixed in varying proportions. 

Among condiments prepared from animal foods, those of the 
anchovy, lobster, shrimp, and Yarmouth bloater are the most com- 
mon. The anchovy is a tiny, silvery fish, caught in the Mediterranean 
sea in vast quantities. The most famojas come from Gorgona, a 
small island near Leghorn, where they are caught in nets as they 
come in from the deeper waters for the purpose of depositing spawn. 
Anchovies were used as a condiment by the most luxurious of the 
Romans, one preparation, called "garum," consisting of the partly 
decomposed intestines of this fish mixed with spices. They are now 
exported for use as a condiment to all parts of the world, being pre- 
served whole as well as in the form of pastes and essences. The 
pastes are prepared by pressing the fish through a sieve, simple 
flavorings and some oil being added. The essences consist of the 
fish steeped in a highly spiced brine or pickle, then strained and 
bottled. Essences of lobster, shrimp, and various fish are similarly 
prepared. 

Various appetizing mixtures intended to give relish to meats, 
fish and soups, and composed of vegetables, fruits and divers spices, 
are known as sauces. "Roots, herbs, vine fruits and salad-flowers, 
they dish up various ways and find them a very delicious sauce to 
their meats, both roasted and boiled, fresh and salt." No other 
sauce made compares with genuine East Indian chutney. It is a 
thick sauce, made from the mango apple, chilies, spices, lemon juice, 
raisins, figs, salt and sugar. Those most celebrated are the Bengal 
Club, Terhoot, Sweet Lucknow and a number of club chutneys. 
Trinidad chutney is particularly fine. Ceylon chutney is often 
slightly fiavored with garlic. Another kind is "mango, chutney, a 
iharacteristic S ingalese cond iment, among the ingredients of which 
are fresh, grated cocoanut and chilies carefully brayed together in a 
mortar. This chutney is of a rich roseate hue; and after eating it 
with his prawn curry the epicure feels like the Grand Turk." 

Carachi is a sauce little known in America, although, as it iu 
much liked abroad, I give a recipe for its making, which sufficiently 
defines its character: one head of garlic, one dessert spoonful of 
cayenne pepper, three table spoonsful each, of soy, mushroom 
ketchup, walnut pickle, and mango pickle, five anchovies and a pint 
of vinegar. 

Cassareep consists of the inspissated juice of the root of the 



102 FOOD PKODDCTS OF THE WOELD. 

bitter cassava, flavored with various spices. From the cassava, or 
manioc, is prepared tapioca and also cassava flour of which bread 
is made. The root is poisonous because of the prussic acid con- 
tained, this, however, being dissipated by heat. After the juice is 
extracted, it is boiled down to the color and consistency of molasses, 
after which spices are added. It is the basis of Worcestershire and 
many other sauces and is valuable iiflhe flavoring of soups and 
ragouts. It is largely exported from British Guiana and is used 
throughout the tropics. ^ "" 

Worcester shire sauce is one of the commonest of table condi- 
ments. It is prepared from cassareep and varying proportions of 
spices, garlic, peppers, and lime-juice, according to the tastes of the 
various houses majiuf acturing it. 

Both lime-juice and Devonshire sauces are similar in prepara- 
tion and flavor to Worcestershire, the former being quite acid, owing 
to the greater proportion of lime-juice used. 

Ketchup is a sauce made variously from tomatoes, mushrooms, 
walnuts, oysters, etc. It should be semi-fluid, about the consistency 
of a good pur^e and, although spices may be added, the original 
flavor of the basic ingredients must always be preserved. Color is 
one desideratum. ^•" tojpato ketchup the sauce is always made of 
the ripe tomato fruit, sHthough, as the color is sometimes produced 
artificially, the only safeguard lies in purchasing of reliable manu- 
facturers. The tomato ketchup is a typical American sauce, corre- 
sponding in our dietary with the mushroom ketchup of the English. 

Soy or shoyu is in general use throughout the Bast, particularly 
in Ciiiha and Japan, that from the latter country being acknowledged 
the finest made. One authority states that our word ketchup is de- 
rived" from the Chinese name for soy, Mtjap. The basis of soy, 
the soy bean, has been cultivated in Japan since the earliest 
dynasties, and is to-day one of their important crops. The different 
varieties of the soy bean produce three kinds of soy known as the 
black, the green and the white. The process of making soy consists 
in first boiling the beans and mixing them with parched barley and 
wheat, coarsely ground. This barm is fermented and when the 
whole mixture is covered with fungi it is mixed with brine of a cer- 
tain strength, which has already been boiled and allowed to cool. 
This mixture is then kept for fermentation about twenty-flve 
months. It is stirred with a wooden paddle twice a day during 
winter, three times a day in summer and, when suflEiciently fer- 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 103 

mented, is put through a soy press. It is then heated to 130 degrees 
Fahrenheit and, after becoming cold again, is put up in bottles and 
casks. It may be preserved for any length of time. In appearance 
it resembles Worcestershire sauce and from a nutritive point of 
view is superior to any other sauce in our markets. 

Soy is manufactured in every part of Japan, no fewer than 
10,682 firms being engaged in making it in 1891. It is eaten by the 
entire Japanese population with every meal and, besides being a 
sauce, is sufficient as a salt. Used upon fish, beef -steaks and meats, 
generally, it gives a relish that is impossible to the choicest of cook- 
ery otherwise. In Japan it is used by all classes excepting the 
extremely destitute, who cannot afford to buy it. 

Tabasco is a popular sauce, the chief ingredient of which is the 
pulp of the red pepper. This, a species of chili, came originally 
from Central America and through cultivation, largely carried on in 
the South, its strength and flavor have been greatly improved. The 
sauce is extremely hot with chilis and, as it keeps well in any cli- 
mate, it is liked by connoisseurs. 

There are on the market numerous preparations known as salad 
dressings. They are useful in cases of inexperience or emergency, 
but are by no means equal to the freshly ma(Je mayonnaise of the 
home kitchen. There is real art in prepafang- a good mayonnaise 
and a Spanish proverb reads: "Four persons are necessary to the 
making of a salad dressing: a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vine- 
gar, a counsellor for salt and a madman to stir it all up." 

Pickles are those articles of food, fruit or vegetables, which are 
preserved by immersion in vinegar, with or without the addition of 
salt or spices. Cucumber and green tomato pickles are the com- 
monest varieties. When vegetables are mixed, as with chow-chow, 
piccalilli and "mixed pickles," cucumbers, small onions, green beans, 
cabbage, pepper-pods, cauliflower and various spices are used. 
Fruits, such as apple, melon, peach, crab-apple and pear are also 
pickled. 

One of the choicest of condiments is the olive. It is the fruit of 
an evergreen tree, native to Syria and lower Asia but now cultivated 
extensively in southern Europe and California. Unlike most 
pickles it may be classed as a food, owing to the oil contained. The 
fruit is picked by hand and carefully sorted about six weeks before 
it would ripen. It is first placed in strong lye for about twenty- 1 
four hours, then removed to fresh water where it may remain several ; 



KM 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 




Candle-nut. 



days. After several washings in fresh water the olives are removed 
and packed in brine. They are ready for use in from one to three 
months. The residents of the olive districts 
both in Greece, Spain, and in California often 
prefer the olive preserved after it has ripened, 
the oil having then matured and the flavor 
being finer. Among the export trade there is 
much prejudice against it owing to its dull, 
black color. Olives should be of good color, 
crisp and firm, but never tough. The Spanish 
and Italian olives are widely popular but are 
really no finer than the best California products. 
The candle-nut, used as a relish and some- 
1 what resembling a green walnut, is the fruit of 
' a tropical tree. It is chopped fine, packed in 
jars, or bottled, with salt added. As a relish 
it is highly prized, specially by the natives of 
the Sandwich Islands. 
Pickled samphire, although at one time popularly used as a con- 
diment, is now little known outside of England. It is a variety of 
sea-weed and growsjipon dangerous and rocky cliffs. Shakespeare 
refers to "the samphire gatherer's dangerous trade," and another poet 
has apostrophized the 

" Green girdles and crowns of the sea gods, 
Cool blossoms of water and foam," 

quite omitting to mention the fact that the "girdles and crowns" 
make, when chopped and packed in vinegar, a most delicious pickle. 
Unlike most condiments, this is, as are all seaweeds, nutritious. 
The people of the Sandwich Islands, as well as the English, consider 
samphire, both the true and false varieties, a choice condiment. It 
is specially liked when served with mutton. 

Flavors are used almost entirely in the making of sweetmeats, 
candies and pastry. Vanilla is perhaps the most choice, being 
invariably used in the preparation of chocolate and cocoa for the 
market. The vanilla vine is an orchidj native to Central America, 
and cultivated in South America, the West Indies, Mexico, and 
upon the islands of the Indian and southern Pacific oceans. The 
vanilla of commerce is made from the delicate, volatile oil ex- 
tracted from the seed-pods. These are several inches in length 
and great care is exerted in curing that the fiavor be not destroyed. 



FOOD PKODUOTS OF THE WORLD. 



lOB 



Hie curing process occupies about six months. The vanilla plant 
bears fruit when about three years old, remaining productive for 
thirty or forty years. The best vanilla is exported from Mexico, 
while that from Brazil is of an inferior quality. 

The Tonka bean, called also 
Tongua and Tonquin bean, is fre- 
quently sold as a substitute for or 
adulterant of vanilla. It belongs to 
the leguminoscB, producing thick, 
short pods from which an oil, re- 
sembling vanilla, is extracted. The 
tree is common in British Guiana and 
the tropics and grows to an immense 
size. It is much cheaper commer- 
cially than vanilla. 

The extract of bitter almond con- 
sists of a tincture made from the 
kernel of the nut. The tree of the 
bitter almond originated, it is believed, 
in Persia, although now growing wild 
in southern Europe. The flavor ob- 
Vanilla Vine and Bean. tained from the kernel is due to the 

prussic acid developed in the process of making the tincture. A sim- 
ilar flavor exists in the kernel and leaves of the peach, a tree allied 
botanically to the almond. Flavoring extracts are also made from 
the orange, lemon, strawberry and other fruits. They are also pro- 
duced chemically, as many alleged fruit-flavors found upon the 
market prove, from the coal-tar products. 

The pistachio or pistache nut is particularly liked by confec- 
tioners because of its delicate flavor, resembling that of the almond. 
It is the kernel of a sumac is small and of a light green color. 
It is native to Europe and the far Bast. 

Cordials or liqueurs are used, both for flavoring pastries and 
ices and, in the way of beverages, as aids to the digestion. In 
the latter case they are taken in very small quantities just at the 
close of a meal. 

Cura^oa is one of the most celebrated of cordials. It was 
originally made in the island of Curagoa, whence its name, and is 
prepared from limes, orange peel and spices. It is still an important 
source of revenue to its native island. 




106 FOOD PKODXICTS OF THE WOKLD. 

Noyau is a liqueur made from brandy, flavored with bitter 
almond^ 

Kataflb, is a liqueur similar to Curagoa and noyau, which is 
flavored with peach and almond extracts and spiced. 

Anisette and kflmmel have been already mentioned, the former 
a cordial made by the French and Italians and flavored with aniseed; 
the la<tter, a German dnd Russian liqueur, flavored with kammel or 
caraway seed. 

Absinthe is a bitter and aromatic cordial, the bitterness being 
due to the use of wormwood in its preparation. It is' particu- 
larly pernicious and treacherous to use if taken before meals, as is 
often the custom, instead of afterward. It is largely used by the 
French. 

Maraschino is an aromatic cordial, the flavor of which is pro- 
ducedT)y^he use of the bitter almond and the Italian cherry. 

Chartreuse was originally prepared by the monks of a 'monas- 
tery of that name in France. For obvious reasons the Pope pro- 
hibited its manufacture by them in 1864 and the original receipt 
was lost. There are f ourkinds now made, of which the green is per- 
haps the most popular. Chartreuse possesses the fragrance of 
garden herbs, the aroma of various spices, flowers and nuts, and even 
the balsamy fragrance of the young, green tassel from the pine tree. 
These cordials are more largely used in France and Italy than any- 
where else. Owing to a growing sentiment against their use, they 
are tolerated to only a limited extent in America although, because 
of their common use as flavorings, they are here mentioned. 

Vegetable acids are also largely used for the flavoring of foods. 
One of the oldest known is verjuice, used by the ancients as a bever- 
age. Its use in cookery is believed to have originated in mediasval 
France. It is made from the juice of crab-apples and of unripe 
grapes. 

Vinegar is a developed acid. The word comes from the French 
■ym-aigrre, meaning sour wine. If simple cane sugar be mixed with 
water and some ferment, it will turn to grape sugar, then to alcohol, 
then to vinegar. However, the best vinegar now used is a fruit acid, 
either from apple or grape. It is also made from the red and white 
wines and from sour beer, the latter being known as malt vinegar. 
In England the law allows a per centage of sulphuric acid to be 
added to malt vinegar while in America both sulphuric and muriatic 
acids are considered adulterants. Vinegar is the one indispensable 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 107 

ingredient of pickles and various sauces as well as a valuable 
condiment. 

Limes and lemons, similar fruits, contain large quantities of 
acid which is thoroughly wholesome and agreeable. To some extent 
these acids are displacing vinegar as condiments, being considered 
both more health giving and more palatable. 

The most complete and instructive exhibition of condiments 
and spices ever given was held in the Agricultural Building during 
the World's Columbian Exposition. The nations of all the earth 
contributed. There were capers and olives from Italy, spices from 
Java, chutney from Trinidad, Calcutta, and the far away island of 
Ceylon; ketchup from both England and America, cassareep and 
pickled limes from British Guiana, soy from China and Japan, and 
pickles from lands galore. The long, daintily curved, vanilla bean 
was exhibited side by side with its short, fat, plebeian looking 
adulterant, the tonka bean. Cordials were sent from every 
country exhibiting. There was in one portion of the building a 
small conservatory filled with growing spice plants, among them 
pimento, ginger, clove, nutmeg, pepper, cassia and cinnamon. 




CHAPTER Xin. 




MILK AND MILK FOODS. 



^ri 



•I 




Milk is perhaps the most perfect of all foods 
since it is the only one containing all the elements of 
nutrition in an easily assimilated form. It was pri- 
marily intended to promote health and growth in the 
young animal during the first months of its life but 
has come into use as an universal and appropriate 
food for the entire human race. Wherever man and 
animals together have inhabited any part of the 
earth, there milk is a common article of diet. Be- 
sides the cow, the camel, horse, bison, reindeer, sheep, 
and goat yield milk for man's use, and many peoples-, 
including the inhabitants of Scandinavia, of Norway, of the Nether- 
lands, of Ireland, of America, even the Bedouins of the desert, de- 
pend largely upon it for food. Dr. Edward Smith, while investi- 
gating the dietaries of the laboring classes of the European nationsj 
discovered that the English workman consumed about thirty-two 
ounces of milk weekly, the Welshman, eighty-five ounces, the Scot, 
one hundred and twenty-five ounces, while the Irishman consumed, 
during the same length of time, one hundred and thirty-five ounces. 
In all stages and conditions of life milk is a valuable and whole- 
some, often a necessary, food. It is specially valuable to the 
young, and Dr. Willard Parker was fond of saying, "If you would 
have your children lambs, give them milk, if lions, feed them upon 
meat." 



110 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

The constituents of milk are classed, as in other foods, &=> pro- 
tein, carbohydrates, fats, salts and water. Of these, water is by far 
the greatest in proportion, comprising eighty-seven per cent in an 
average sample. It serves to hold the other constituents in solution 
and favors metabolism, the process by which the nutritive elements 
are assimilated by the plastic tissues of the human system. To this 
rapid and easy process of assimilation is due the great value of milk 
as a food for the invalid or the young. It is generally the exclusive 
diet of the fever patient when nothing else will be tolerated by an 
enfeebled digestion. The protein or nitrogenous matter comprises 
both the casein and albuminoids. The carbohydrates consist of the 
milk sugar which, while classified with the fats as a heat-producer, 
has still its peculiar value as a food. Dr. Aitkin, chemist of the 
Highland Society of Edinburgh, has shown that it assists rather in 
the storing up of fat in organized tissue as well as in effecting a 
saving in the assimilation of the^lbuminoids. 

The fats, instead of being held in solution as are the other ele- 
ments, are diffused throughout the liquid in the form of minute oil 
globules, visible only with the aid of the microscope. These tiny 
globules, being lighter than the fluid, rise to the surface and, there 
accumulated, are known as cream. The heat equivalent of fat is 
two and one-half times that of milk sugar. The amount of cream 
contained is usually the test quality of milk although, from a nutri- 
tive standpoint, this is of minor importance. The amount of casein 
and albuminoids, which are the flesh forming elements, should be- 
come the desideratum rather than the cream, which is chiefly im- 
portant in the manufacture of butter. The oil globules of milk by 
chemical analysis consist of many fats which undergo change im- 
mediately upon exposure to the atmosphere. 

The proportion of fats in milk may be increased by regulating 
the quality and quantity of the animal's food and, as is well known, 
differs in amount in different breeds of cattle. The Jerseys have 
long been famous for producing milk which contains a large per- 
centage of fats and the contest held at the Columbian Exposition 
between the Jersey, Guernsey and Shorthorn breeds established the 
reputation of the former as cream producers. The famous Ida 
Marigold, in her record of producing flf ty-two pounds of butter in 
fourteen days, not only outranked all cows of other breeds but also 
all other Jerseys. 

That both the casein and fats of milk are held in suspension in 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. Ill 

the fluid and not in solution has been proven by filtering the milk 
through porcelain. Only a clear fluid, known as milk serum, 
passes through, holding the salts in solution, -leaving as a residue 
on the fllter most of the casein and fats. The ash left after burn- 
ing the evaporated milk contains the minerals, or salts, which are 
held in solution, potash, soda, lime, iron and magnesia. The specific 
gravity of mUk is determined by the hydrometer, which also indi- 
cates the proportion of solid alimentary substances. Other tests 
determine the proportion of fatty matter contained but none of 
these can be relied upon to detect adulterations with accuracy. 
The food value of milk varies according to the quantity of solid 
matter contained, this being variable in different grades of milk. 
Milk which is to be used for butter is tested by the lactometer, an 
instrument used for ascertaining the quantity of cream contained; 
if for cheese it is tested by evaporation for the amount of solids, or 
casein. 

The character of milk is perceptibly changed, both in flavor 
and nutritive value, by the food and surroundings of the cow. 
Turnips, onions, leeks, or any rank weed of the pastures, when 
eaten by the cow, ruins the flavor of the milk. One of the largest 
dairies in Chicago habitually refuses to receive milk from aU farm- 
ers who feed their cows upon ensilage, or malted food, knowing that 
any fermented food changes both the quality and the flavor of the 
mUk. This house employs a physician, who is regularly a health 
officer, to test all samples of milk brought in for the percentages 
contained of cream, of albuminoids and casein and of salts. Besides 
this a rigid system of inspection is enforced upon the farmers sup- 
plying this mUk in regard to the pasturing, feeding and watering of 
their stock as well as in regard to cleanliness in milking and taking 
care of the mUk. DifiEerent pastures determine the constituents to 
a certain extent, one furnishing a butter-producing milk, another, 
mUk which is valuable to the cheese maker. Cows which are kept 
away from pasturage in stalls or in unwholesome surroundings, 
which are fed upon unsuitable food or have access to water con- 
taminated by sewage or surface drainage, produce milk which is 
wholly unfit for food. It is not only poor in nutrition but likely 
to be contaminated by disease. The compulsory inspection of milk 
which is carried on in many of our great cities sufficiently proves 
that such diseases as typhoid fever, diphtheria and particularly tuber- 
culosis may be the direct result of using infected or unclean milk. 



112 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

Milk, while variable in the proportion of its constituents, should 
yet yield about the following analysis (Dr. Letheby): 

Nitrogenous matter 4.1 

Fats 3.9 

Sugar (Lactine). 5.2 

Salts 0.8 

Water 86.0 



100.0 
There is no food more susceptible of change than milk, none 
better adapted to conveying dirt and disease into the human sys- 
tem, if care and cleanliness be not exercised in the care of the 
utensils which contain the milk. Unwholesome change in milk is 
caused by two substances, the unorganized or chemical ferments 
and the organized or bacterial. The latter class contains divers 
micro-organisms known' as bacteria, which are present in all sub- 
stances to a certain extent as well as in the atmosphere. No 
medium is more favorable to their growth and development than 
warm milk. In a recent bulletin issued by the Agricultural depart- 
ment at Washington a simple experiment in bacterial culture was 
made with the following result: a specimen of milk was placed for 
four days in a cool atmosphere, at the end of which time it was 
found to contain about ten millions of bacteria to the quart. The 
milk was then placed for seven hours in a warm room, at the end of 
which time the bacteria had increased in number a hundred fold. 
This is quite enough to frighten the average person were it not for 
the fact that non-poisonous bacteria can be digested without harm 
by one in good health. Only in young children and invalids are 
they likely to produce gastric disturbances. One variety, the 
bacillus lactis, produces lactic acid, that is, causes the milk to be- 
come sour; another bacillus causes it to become bitter; others, 
blue; others, slimy, etc. Their names and numbers are legion, each 
variety capable of producing or furthering some change. Climatic 
conditions influence the development of bacteria in milk, e. g., the 
rapid souring of milk' during thunderstorms and during the sultry 
weather of "dog-days." 

Bacteria may be farther classified as those which are innocuous 
and those which are poison-producing. Although it is a half cen- 
tury since Fuchs discovered bacteria, the science is yet in its infancy, 
and chemists are still dccupied'with the discovery of new varieties 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 113 

and with determining their influence in producing changes in milk 
as well as other foods. Two tacts are known, one, that if milk be 
lowered in temperature immediately after being taken from the cow, 
the chances of rapid development of bacteria are reduced to a mini- 
mum; and the other, that if milk is Pastejirizedj^that is, sterilized, 
by being heated to^ the boUing point, there maintained for a few 
minutes and then quickly cooled, the germs are killed. Milk so 
treated can be preserved for an indefinite period of time if kept 
from contact with the atmosphere and is quite as palatable and far 
more healthful than before being rendered sterile. When we re- 
member that cows often suffer from tuberculosis and other diseases, 
and also that milk from a healthy cow is liable to infection from 
careless or unclean handling, the necessity of sterilization is obvi- 
ous. Sternberg, in his work on bacteriology, has given the thermal 
death-point of various poisonous bacteria, of which the bacilli of 
tuberculosis, of typhoid fever, of diphtheria, the micrococci of pneu- 
monia and of cholera, may be conveyed in milk. Heat destroys the 
bacilli of typhoid fever at 140° P.; tuberculosis at 160° P.; diph- 
theria at 140° P.; the micrococci of pneumonia at 160° P.; cholera 
at 140° P. (Sternberg.) 

The necessity of absolute cleanliness in the care of milk should 
be impressed upon every housewife, particularly upon those 
who have the care of children. Various chemicals, such as borax, 
and salicylic acid are used as preservatives, but the results from 
their use are unsatisfactory, not to mention the injuripusjeffects of 
these chemicals when taken into the human system. Nothing is so 
valuable as that ounce of prevention, cleanliness, and nothing, except- 
ing actual infection, is more conducive to the development of 
disease than dirt. It should be remembered that, while heating 
to the boiling point is suflBcient to sterilize the milk, it by no means 
destroys aU danger from milk which is infected or unclean. The 
only safeguard aside from this lies in securing milk from a healthy, 
well-fed cow, chilling it immediately in well cleansed vessels. 

Another organic ferment, which produces what is chemically 
known as alcoholic fermentation when placed in milk, is yeast. 
Milk so treated is known as koumiss or kumyss. From time im- 
memorial the nomadic tribes of Tartary have used mare's milk so 
prepared as a beverage, and within the last generation or two 
koumiss, prepared from cow's railk with the addition of sugar and a 
small quantity of yeast, has become a valuable liquid food for in- 



114 FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

valids. Another and similar drink is the "Keflr" of the Caucasus 
mountains. Matzoon is"aSothe'r milk preparation, which is the re- 
sult of bacterial culture, caused by the addition of a ferment. The 
name is simply an Armenian word, meaning "fermented milk," and 
in the country of its origin all milk is' so treated before used as 
food or for the making of butter. There is an Armenian legend 
that the ferment was first obtained from heaven, that an angel pre- 
sented some of it to Father Abraham who divided it generously 
among his kinsfolk, and it has been used in the Orient ever since. 
The Matzoon is evidently the result of a pure culture of bacteria 
which is introduced as a ferment after the miflihaSlBeen thoroughly 
sterilized by heating to the boiling point. This is necessary lest the 
effect of the introduced ferment should be counteracted by other 
bacteria which inevitably develop in unsterilized milk. The milk 
is cooled and then agitated, making a light, creamy, most delicious 
drink, valuable to invalids and somewhat resembling a superior 
quality of butter-milk, but more nutritious as it contains all the 
constituents of milk. This was exhibited at the World's Columbian 
Exposition by two firms. No fresh milk was exhibited excepting as 
tested for its butter producing quality. 

Condensed milk has for many years been manufactured both at 
home and in European countries. At the Columbian Exposition 
there were five large exhibits, notable alike for the size and beauty 
of their pavilions and for the excellence of the milk displayed. 
The method of preserving milk by evaporation, that is, con- 
densing it, is thoroughly excellent. The milk, in process of evapor- 
ation, is sterilized and, if sealed from the air, will keep for almost 
any length of time and in any climate. In condensing, the milk is 
first cooled to about 60° P. for the purpose of dissipating all animal 
heat. It is then quickly heated to a temperature of 185° at which 
point evaporation of the water takes place. The temperature is 
not lowered beyond 160° F. until the process is completed, which 
occurs when four gallons are reduced in bulk to one gallon. The 
best white sugar is then added, ih'TEe proportion of one and one- 
fourth pounds to one gallon of milk, after which it is sealed in cans. 
Condensed milk is palatable in coffee and in cookery in which 
its "scalded" and sweet taste is not objectionable. Its reduced 
bulk adapts it to transportation and for use on ship-board. It is far 
too sweet for general use and is objectionable as a food for young 
children owing to the excess of sugar. It is fattening and the con- 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOULD. US 

tinued use of it may give a child a plump, healthy appearance. But 
this appearance of health is deceptive for, instead of building up 
muscular tissue, the flesh becomes less firm, there is an excess of 
adipose tissue and a child so fed is more liable to sticcumb to 
disease than one which is fed rationally. There is a certain Swiss 
brand which is specially advertised as suitable for children but 
which, owing to the surplus of sugar, is no more so than the Amer- 
ican brands. There is now in the market an unsweetened, con- 
densed milk, which has not only the absence of sugar to recommend 
it but also the fact that in the process of evaporation it becomes 
thoroughly sterilized. 

The French have a process of condensing milk, a process also 
used by the Swiss and the product of which is known as soUdifled 
milk. To 112 pounds of fresh milk they add twenty-eight pounds of 
sugg,r and one teaspoonful of common soda. This is evaporated to a 
consistency which admits of its being put up ia the shape of small 
bricks. It is preserved simply by a wrapping of tin-foil. 

The name of "evaporated cream," an article recently put upon 
the markets, is a misnomer and one quite likely to mislead pur- 
chasers, as such a thing as an evaporated cream is a chemical im- 
possibility. It is simply mUk evaporated to the consistency of a 
thick cream. 




CHAPTER XIV. 



BUTTER. 




UTTER has been used in the countries of the 
far East for many centuries and is still consid- 
ered by the descendants of the early Syrian and 
Israelitish peoples a most necessary food. Both 
cheese and butter are mentioned in the Hebraic 
scriptures, the ancient Jewish method of making 
them being still used by the Arabians and by 
many of the modern inhabitants of Palestine. 
For the making of butter the milk is placed in 
a copper pan orer a fire, to it being added 
either a small quantity of sour milk or the dried 
intestines of a lamb, the latter used evidently 
for the pepsin contained, which causes the milk to coagulate. 
When this is accomplished the milk is gently agitated in a goat 
skin bag until the butter separates. It is then placed by itself 
in another pan and, after the addition of a ferment made from 
wheat, is boiled. The butter collects upon the surface of this mix- 
ture from which it is skimmed, a white, iU-flavored article, bearing 
no resemblance to the fragrant product of an American dairy-farm. 
Among the ancient Greeks butter was rarely, if ever, used upon 
the table as their olive oil must have satisfied the demands of the 
system for fats. Herodotus relates that the Greeks first learned 
the use of butter frogi the noma<}io and pastoraL Scythians, and, 



118 FOOD PEODCJCTS OF THE WORLD. 

half a centuiy later, we find the physician Galen recommending its 
use as an ointment. He informs us that cow's milk produces the 
best Butter for such use, goat's milk an inferior quality, while that 
made from asses' milk is poorest of all. Other writers refer to 
butter made from sheep's milk as well as to elephant's butter, used 
by the natives of India for the anointing of wounds. In the second 
century the Romans learned from the Teutonic races the use of 
butter as a food. 

The butter of the modern dairy farm is almost universally made 
from cow's milk or, to be more definite, from the floating oil globules 
contained in the milk. These oil globules, being lighter than the 
serum of the milk, rise to the surface and may be skimmed off as 
cream. They are so extremely minute that fifteen hundred of them 
placed in a row would scarcely reach the distance of an inch. They 
have no covering, membranous or otherwise, each remaining intact 
and separate in the form of a drop or tiny globule. Churning or 
agitation of the cream causes them to adhere to each other, a pro- 
cess that may be facilitated or retarded according to the temper- 
ature at which the cream is churned. When the cream takes on a 
granular form, the agitation should be stopped, the granules 
gathered and separated from the butter-milk. 

Butter is made from milk in two conditions, each method having 
its adherents. The older and more popular method consists in allow- 
ing the milk to stand from twenty to thirty-six hours, the cream 
being removed when sufllciently "ripened" or soured. The other 
consists in separating the butter from the whole milk while 
sweet, butter so produced having a flavor very different and gener- 
ally not so well liked as that churned from sour cream. There is 
great diversity of opinion as to whether butter should or should not 
be washed, recent investigations going to prove that its peculiar 
and agreeable flavor resides chiefly in the butter-milk, for it is well 
known that butter may be washed until almost flavorless. The best 
butter-maker I ever knew was a woman who was reared in the dairy 
business in Herkimer county. New York. Her butter was uniformly 
good, had a wide reputation for good keeping qualities and always 
brought the highest market price. Yet she never washed it nor 
even allowed water to touch it after it left the churn. In this re- 
spect her methods were similar to those used in the Scandinavian 
countries and the Netherlands, nations world famous for their dairy 
products. According to the report of the United States consul at 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 119 

Copenhagen upon the creameries of that country, in one of which, 
that of Ourog, the average weekly yield is 1,512 pounds, no water is 
ever used in the churning, the butter being rinsed with skimmed 
milk. The churning is stopped when the butter coheres in tiny 
granules, and the butter is taken up on a sieve from which the milk 
is drained. In pieces of about one pound each it is pressed with the 
hands against the sides of a tub, then placed in layers, three drams 
of salt being used to each pound of butter. It is then cut into 
pieces perpendicularly through the layers and subjected to the 
same pressing as before. This operation is repeated ten times be- 
fore the butter is placed in the cooling box. In these creameries, 
extensive as many of them are, the butter-milk is all removed by 
the hands, differing from the method used in American creameries, 
of pressing it out by machinery. The latter method often destroys 
the "grain" of the butter, owing to too much working, giving it a 
greasy appearance. 

Butter, like milk, is liable to infection from unoleanliness or 
disease, as well as vitiation from a foul atmosphere. It is hardly 
necessary to state that care and cleanliness are absolutely essential, 
the first essential being mUk obtained from a perfectly healthy, 
well-pastured cow. Just as milk may be infected when taken from 
a tuberculous or otherwise diseased cow, so is butter, made from 
such milk. Several years ago German scientists proved that butter 
made from tuberculous mUk was infected and capable of producing 
disease. Since then Professor Roth of Zurich has investigated the 
butter made in twenty different cantons in Switzerland. He found 
that ten per cent of it contained tubercle baoiUi. About the same 
time Dr. Brusaferro of Italy investigated the butter of Italian 
markets, and found eleven per cent of infected butter. It is not at 
all probable that so large a proportion of tuberculous butter could 
be found in American markets, because of the recent systematic 
efforts made by the bureau of animal industry to root out the 
disease among cattle. But these examples serve to show with what 
intelligent and scrupulous care the process of butter making should 
be carried on, beginning with the food, water and pasturage of the 
cow and ending only when the butter is deposited in the cooling 
rooms of the markets. At Copenhagen all butter must pass inspec- 
tion before judges, whose influence has been inestimable in further- 
ing cleanliness and attention among the dairy population. 

But if the American people do not run so great a risk of infected 



120 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

butter as the poorer classes of Italians, they do run an enormous 
risk in eating the unclean products which many of our packing 
houses send out. Many a so-called "packing-house" consists of a 
single, dirty, damp, and f oul-smeUing room. To this place butter of 
every shade and quality is brought and dumped into a large wooden 
vat. Near by stands a pail half -filled with coloring material (an- 
nato), in which is a short-handled broom. After the various kinds 
of butter are worked into a somewhat homogeneous mass, the color- 
ing liquid is sprinkled in by means of the broom, until the desired 
color is obtained. The contents of this vat are then worked and 
packed in jars or tubs and go forth as "June grass" or "Orange Co." 
butter. I once knew of a creamery which perpetrated this identical 
fraud upon its customers by mixing various grades of farmers' 
butter; and the "hash" or "ladle" butter which was sent out was 
labeled "best creamery butter." Besides the uncleanliness of much 
of such butter it wiU not keep a month without deteriorating in 
quality and flavor. Such frauds are the worst enemies with which 
the legitimate dairy business has to contend. The wealthier and 
more intelligent people can more or less easily avoid these gross 
frauds, but not so the poor, the ignorant, and the inmates of various 
state institutions, such as our work-houses, poor-houses and certain 
of our insane asylums, who are frequently fed on inferior meat and 
worse than inferior butter. As yet no systematic investigation has 
been made among the eleemosynary institutions of America and, as 
an inspiration to some would-be investigator, I quote the following 
report, made by F. W. EosweU of England after investigating the 
quality of butter furnished to the various workhouses in the 
vicinity of London. It is scarcely necessary to say that good butter 
should not contain more than from one-half to one ounce of water 
to the pound, while one ounce of salt per pound produces salt butter: 

Workhouse. Percentage of Water. Character of Butter. 

St. Saviors 12.6 Fair. 

Stepny 16.5 Nasty. 

St. Pancreas 12.8 Bad. 

Poplar 12.9 Very bad. 

Shoreditch 13.2 Bad. 

St. Giles 13.2 Tolerably good. 

Lambeth 13.2 Exceedingly bad. 

Fulham 13.1 Good. 

Wardsworth 15.3 Bad. 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE JVOBLD. 121 

Workhouse. Percentage of Water. Character ot Butter. 

City of London 13.7 Good. 

Hackney 16.6 Tolerable. 

St. Olave's 14.3 Fair. 

St. Luke's, Chelsea 14.5 Fair. 

Camberwell 14.7 Exceedingly bad. 

St. George's in the East 15.4 Bad. 

Marylebone 18.2 Tolerable. 

Greenwich 19.4 Fair. 

Holborn 19.7 Middling. 

Paddington 23.6 Rather rank. 

Kensington 23.7 Wretched. 

Salt hutter. 

White Chapel 24.9 Very bad. 

We might do as the Bedouins, to improve the flavor of butter. 
They boil aromatic herbs with it, when it is known as Hedjaz. I 
doubt, however, if any condiment could destroy the flavor of some 
butter which flnds its way into cheap boarding-houses or into 
certain institutions where the inmates have no choice of foods. 

There is evidently far greater need of educating dairy people 
and farmers to see the necessity of making a uniformly good and 
pure quality of butter and then of placing it directly into the 
hands of consumers instead of consigning it to the dubious mercies 
of a packing-house, than there is in legislating against a wholesome 
imitation of butter by prohibiting its sale or by placing a tax upon 
it. For, contrary to the belief of many, butter or a wholesome fat 
of some kind is an absolute necessity to the human system and has 
a distinct, nutritive value. 

The question of uniformity in butter is a serious one. It is 
rarely produced twice in succession of uniform quality and flavor 
by indifferent butter makers, and even the most skillful sometimes 
fail. Such failure is variously attributed to "dog-days," thunder 
storms and other atmospheric conditions, occasionally to general 
"contrariness," never to lack of cleanliness in atmosphere or uten- 
sils. But of late years science has come to the rescue. It is now 
known that to the development of certain bacteria is due the flavor, 
good or otherwise, of butter. If the butter be made from sour 
milk, tMs development begins before churning; if from sweet milk, 
afterward, in which case the flavor is not generally so well liked. 
But these bacteria are of divers and manifold varieties and, when 



122 FOOD FBODDCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

the wrong varieties develop, the result is butter of poor, sometimes 
wretched flavor, and consequently of poor keeping qualities. Chev- 
reul claimed that the stearine, margerine and oleine of butter, with 
minute quantities of butyrine and caprine, gave the desired flavor 
and fragrance. Other scientists believed it to be due to the volatile 
acids contained, a theory which has been discarded recently by some, 
owing to the fact that the characteristic aroma of butter has been 
produced in solutions which contain no fat of butter. But the first 
reliable investigations made along this line were due to the efforts 
of the Swedish scientist, Storch, who, after patient research, was able 
to isolate the bacillus ofSTighfiy sour cream which was believed to 
produce the required butter flavor. Wiegmann later isolated the 
same class of organisms and introduced them as a ferment into the 
creameries of Germany with satisfactory results. In Jutland the 
souring of cream is produced artificially and the dairy-maid is held 
responsible for the result. \ A ferment is prepared by allowing sweet 
milk to become sour, adding this to other cream in small quantities 
that the souring process may be developed by the action of the re- 
quired variety of bacteria. By this means the characteristic flavor, 
of "sweet butter" is developed and is always uniform. Still, this very 
fermentation, if allowed to continue too long, will ultimately destroy 
all fine flavor and will render it impossible to make the best butter." 
Certainly, if culture of certain bacteria can be introduced into 
cheese -with success (witness the numerous and widely different 
varieties of cheese upon our markets), it is not improbable that 
the fermentation of cream for butter-making can be as success- 
fully accomplished. When that day comes, when to the cleanliness, 
tact, and housewifely skill of the dairy maid are added the scientific 
methods of the chemical laboratory, simple though they may be, 
the day of "all sorts and conditions" of butter will have passed 
away. It is not too much to predict that, within a few years, the 
butter of our markets v/ill be more wholesome, clean, and uniform 
in quality. 



•'^Cc# 




CHAPTER XV. 



CHEESE. 




O THE cheese-maker the organic or bacterial 
ferments are an absolute necessity for upon 
them depend the ripening of the cheese, it's 
flavor, in a word, its commercial value. When 
milk coagulates, either by the action of thij 
bacteria of lactic acid or by the development 
of some added ferment, a substance called 
"curd" is formed. This is composed of most 
of the casein, albumin, fats, sugar and salts?, 
of the milk. In this form it is often eaten 
ice cold with sugar and nutmeg and, called, 
"junket," is regarded as a great delicacy. 
Dryden refers to "curds and cream, the flower of country fare." 

When the liquid portion or whey is well separated the curds 
may be pressed by the hands into a home-made cheese, known vari- 
ously as "Dutch" and "cottage" cheese, a variety made and used in 
nearly every household where milk may be had in abundance. It 
is customary to make it of skimmed milk, that butter also may be 
made in the household, and after the curds are well pressed to add 
butter and cream, with salt and a dash of black pepper. Such 
cheese is very nutritious, is the result of a natural process of 
fermentation and was probably the earliest cheese known. That of 
modern Palestine is similarly made, but, as it is first exceedingly 



124 FOOD FKODUOTS OF THE WOKLD. 

well salted and then allowed to dry to utter hardness in small, 
round cakes, it compares most unfavorably with the American 
home-made product. 

Cheese is customarily made by the addition to the warmed milk 
of an organic or digestive ferment known as rennet. This is pre- 
pared from the stomach of the calf, and, containing large quantities 
of pepsin, has the property of coagulating the casein of the milk in 
a short time, providing the milk be kept at a temperature of about 
80° P. In the best or "full crMm"^heeses the wholejmlk^ is used, 
the handling and curing of them determining largely their market 
value. The curd forms in from thirty to fifty minutes, providing 
the milk be maintained at the proper temperature, and is then 
ready to be separated from the liquid or whey Extreme care must 
be observed in the cutting or breaking of the curd that it may not, 
owing to the undue pressure or over manipulation, lose a portion of 
the cream contained. Some cheese makers use a sort of rake for 
breaking the curd, others a wooden knife, while many prefer the 
fingers. The curd is allowed to shrink somewhat by the separation 
of the whey when it is drained and pressed into various shapes in 
cheese hoops. It is then set away to "cure" or ripen, for a freshly 
made cheese is far from palatable and has almost no market value. 

The ripening process is now known to be due to the action of 
bacteria. It was Cohn who first discovered these micro-organisms 
in cheese in 1875. Five years later he found, after experimental ob- 
servations, that there were numerous varieties and also that if the 
curd be sterilized or treated in any way with a disinfectant the 
cheese would fail to ripen. To make cheese without the aid of 
bacteria is therefore impossible. They exist in fresh, warm milh 
and multiply rapidly at the temperature necessary for coagulating 
the curd, now one variety and now another, depending upon at- 
mosphere and surroundings, becoming most numerous. Certain 
varieties produce a poison, first described by Dr. Vaughan and 
named tyrotoxicon. Says Dr. Vaughan: "Tyrotoxicon may originate 
in milk on long standing in closed vesseK^ owing to jputrefactive 
change, which is due to minute organisms. The introduction of 
these organisms into milk hastens putrefaction and consequently 
the formation of ptomaines. Milk coming from cows kept in filthy 
stables is likely to undergo speedy putrefaction, and poisonous 
germs may also adhere to the sides of any vessels which are not 
kept absolutely clean." He says further, "any cheese which is acid' 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



125 



in its reaction should be regarded with suspicion. The old, foul- 
smelling cheeses, such as Limburger and Schweitzer, are alkaline 
in reaction and poisoning does not seem to result from their use." 
In Limburger, as is well known, the bacterial growth is allowed to 
develop to the verge of putrefaction. At the Arabian encampment 
upon the Midway Plaisance I was one day invited to taste some 
cheese made from camel's milk and brought by the Arabs from 
their desert home. It was hardly pleasant either to taste or sight 
and must have contained even more bacteria to the ounce than the 
one hundred and sixty-flve millions which ordinary cheese is esti- 
mated to contain. These, too, were Arabian bacteria, of wholly 
characteristic odor and flavor. 

Cheese is a highly concentrated and very nutritious food. It is 
composed almost wholly of protein and, according to Mattieu 
Williams, there is in every pound of cheese twice 
as muchjgutriment as in a pound of the best 

meat, while, if 
bones and ten- 
dons be included 



in the weight, 
cheese has the ad- 
vantage of three to 
one. There is much 
diflEerence of opin- 
ion as to the digestibility of cheese, but the 
fact remains that to the average person it is 
fully as digestible as it is nutritious. The 
Scotch and Swiss, who eat it in the place 
of meat, experience no trouble in digesting it, nor would any 
one who ate it as rationally as they do. But the American usually 
considers it a condiment to be eaten at the close of a full dinner, 
where it often adds to the burden already placed upon an overloaded 
digestion, not to mention the added nitrogenous matter which the 
system has no use for and must discard as waste. It is not surpris- 
ing that the Americans are coming to be known as a nation of dys- 




136 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

peptics when one considers their universal ignorance of the uses of 
foods and the needs of the human system. A poor cheese requires 
longer time for digestion than a good one owing to the smaller 
amount of fat and the larger amount of casein contained in the 
former. When used in cookery, as in cheese fondu, custard or 
souffle, cheese is rendered more digestible by the addition of a little 
carbonate of_gotash to the inilk Before the cheese is added. This is 
fe"e result of experiments made by Williams. 

The cheese making countries are Great Britain, France, Italy, 
Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United States and 
Canada. The Laplanders make cheese from reindeer's milk, the 
Bedouins from the milk of sheep. Certain of the French and Swiss 
cheeses are made from the milk of the sheep and goat, but the ordi- 
nary article of export is made from cow's milk. 

Perhaps the most famous of all English cheeses is the Cheddar, 
pale in color, nutty and delicious in flavor. In the process of mak- 
ing a quantity of sour whey is added to the curd just before it_isput 
into the press, the whole being maintained at a temperature of from 
" C0° to 65° F. After being pressed it is placed in a temperature of 
70° F. in the curing room, is coated with fat and turned daily. It is 
cured in from three to six months although said to improve indefl- 
iiitely with age. At the Columbian Exposition there was a specimen 
of Cheddar sent by an English firm, which was labeled "Cheddai- 
Cheese, made in 184.5." To all appearance it was by no means 
past its prime. Cheeses similar to the Cheddar are made in Amer- 
ica and Canada. 

Cheshire cheese, made in the county of Cheshire, resembles 
Cheddar in appearance although it is stronger^ in flavor. ":^ " " 

The double Gloucester is a cheese which, containing much fat, 
is excellent Tn cookery, especially in making Welsh ' rarebits, and is 
mild in flavor. "*~ 

Banbury is a rich cheese about half an inch thick, not so popu- 
lar now as a few generations ago. It has been described as being 
"nothing but paring" and, in "Merry Wives of Windsor," Slender is 
compared to it. 

Stilton is one of the choicest of English cheeses and was first 
made by a Mrs. Paulet who regularly supplied with it an innkeeper 
of Stilton, a little town in Huntingdon. From that the cheese takes 
its name. It is a rich cheese, its pale-colored substance marked 
with greenish veins, and is never eaten until exceedingly well cured. 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 127 

It was some of this "line, ripe Stilton'' which Charles Lamb pur- 
chased and then asked the shopkeeper for a bit of string that he 
might lead it homel Stilton is small and d rum-shaped , and as a 
dessert cheese is rivaled only by Roqueforfor the Italian Gorgon- 
zola. 

It is said that no cheese better pleases the true gourmet than 
Gorgonzola and, although an authority declares it to be "sadly indi- 
gestible," it has inspired at least one cheese lover to drop into verse: 
" I have enjoyed it from of old. 

That product of the sunny south— 
The cheese that wears the dainty mould. 

And melts lUce butter in the mouth ; 
And whose consumption oft is graced 
By such a pleasant after taste." 
Gorgonzola is a rich, creamy cheese made in the mountainous 
regions of Italy. It is cured always in exceedingly damp caves, the 
floors of which are usually covere d with wate r, and the process of 
curing occupies not less than a year. When cut it is veined with 
greenish streaks of mold, said to be accomplished by introducing 
layers of moldy bread crumbs into the curd just before pressing. 
If this be true the Italian mountaineers well understand 
the method of introducing a certain culture of bacteria 
into their cheeses and also how, by dampness and a 
certain temperature, to best further this bacterial 
growth. 

The Cachio Cavallo di Napolio is a soft, rich cheese 
which is cured after being put into the stomachs of 
small animals. It is considered a great delicacy by the 
"Italians and was exhibited in the Italian section at the 
Columbian Exposition. 
Cavallo. Perhaps the best known of Italian cheeses is the Par-_ 

mesan as it is used the world over in cooking. It is a skimmed milk 
cheese, containing very little fat, and so hard that it is used only after 
being grated. It is inade at Parma, Italy, from the milk of cows which 
are carefully fed upon grass all the year round, and is saidTo owe its 
delicious, sweet flavor to the superior quality of the pasturage along 
the banks of the Po. Parmesan cheeses are of large size and re- 
quire three years for ripening. However, they may be kept for 
years without deteriorating, as was proven by the fine flavor and 
perfect condition of one exhibited at the exposition which was 
eleven years old and, it is needless to add, as hard as a stone. 




K8 .1» FOOD PKODUOTS OF THE WOELD. 

Macaroni is never at its best without Parmesan cheese, and certain 
soups are improved in flavor by its use. 

Prance produces more than forty varieties of cheeses, the most 
famous among them being Eoquefort, Gruy^re, Port du Salut, Brie, 
Camembert and Neuf chatel. 

Gruyfere is a thick, firm cheese useful in cooking. It is also 
made in Switzerland, in which country it is usually flavored with 
herbs. 

Neufchatel is a rich, creamy, white cheese, made in tiny rolls, 
each wrapped in tin-foil. It is an appropriate dessert cheese. 

Port du Salut is a soft, delicately-flavored cheese, made at Bor- 
deaux. It is not considered at its best, the epicures tell us, until it 
has ripened almost to the verge of decay. It is of a light coffee 
color and is rarely seen excepting upon club house tables. 

Camembert is a small, hand-made cheese_ covered with blue 
mold, under which is a white mold. It is made chiefly in Normandy, 
the dampness and temperature developing the fungous growth upon " 
the outside. After the cheeses are made into shape they are placed 
upon shelves and turned daily until covered with a white mold, then 
removed to different atmospheric surroundings until the blue mold 
is fully developed, when they are ready for use. 

Brigiajarge, soft cheese, made in the vicinity of Paris, resembles 
Camembert. It also is covered first with a white, then with a red 
or blue mold. The development of red mold is the thing desired, 
Brie of a blue color being less esteemed. This peculiar species of 
bacteria is due in part to the osier strainers used, which are never 
washed! Brie ripens in six or eight weeks after pressing. — 

Roquefort has for many generations been noted for the pro- 
duction of the well known Roquefort cheese. The whole country 
about this little French town consists of f ertUe pasture lands which 
support thousands of sheep, and from the milk of the ewes is pro- 
duced this famous cheese. It is a rich, creamy cheese, made by the 
peasantry in their homes. It is made in layers, between which are 
sprinkled the pulverized crumbs of brown bread, which have been 
allowed to develop a species of fungous growth. This cheese is there- 
fore the result of direct culture of bacteria. After the loaves of 
cheese are made the peasant farmers dispose of them to the matur- 
ers, who own the caves. After reaching the caves the cheeses are 
brushed over with fat and, with a machine, are pierced with several 
minute holes to admit the air, a process which would prove destruQ- 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. ^ 139 

tive to most cheeses. It is stated that in no other place than these 
caves are the conditions, atmospheric and otherwise, favorable to 
the growth of the species of bacteria which gives to the Roquefort 
its characteristic flavor. When cut, the cheese presents a veined 
appearance, owing to the mold. 

The cheeses of Holland are the spice, Gouda and Edam, of 
which Go u^^ somewhat resembles the English Cheddar. Edam is a 
round cheese, the outside of which is artiflcially colored red, after 
which it is wrapped in tin-foil. It is a rich though rather hard 
cheese and of a yellow color, differing from other cheeses in that 
an acid is used, instead o f jm net. for forming the curd. 

Limburger cheese has made the little town of Limburg, Belgium, 
known over most of the globe. It is a rich cheese, ripened until actual 
putrefaction has set in, and the odor of which is offensively strong. 
It is disliked by the majority of people and in consistency and general 
appearance is not unlike new soap. By the uninitiated one article 
would be as much relished as the other. It is wrapped in tin-foil, 
probably to facilitate handling it as well as to conceal its fragrance. 

Lipton is a famous Bohemian cheese, made from goat's milk. 
It comes to this country wf apped in tin-foil. 

Schweitzer, Ulmetzer and Tyrolean are all well known cheeses 
made in Germany. 

That cheese is a staple food in nearly every land was plainly 
evidenced by the exhibits made at the Columbian Exposition. 
Great Britain, France, Italy, Germany, Holland, Belgium, Argentine 
Republic, Ecuador, Uruguay, Mexico, Canada, our own states and 
many other countries carried the number of cheeses far into the hun- 
dreds. Canada has a reputation for making an excellent cheese, 
similar tothe Cheddar of England. But, not content with this 
feme, she must needs add to it by making one of enormous size; and 
there it was, in the center of the Agricultural building, eleven tons 
in weight and with a spiral stairway leading to its expansive top. 
The state of Wisconsin ranked first in the number of her cheese ex- 
hibits, New York, New Hampshire, Minnesota, Maine and Iowa each 
adding their quota to the total display. New Jersey has long been 
known to make largo quantities of cheese in imitation of the 
special, imported brands, but this state made no display at the expo- 
sition. In Pennsylvania there is made a cheese which is an excel- 
lent imitation of Neufchfttel. It is called sehmierkase, is made from 
sour milk, well drained, mixed with cream and butter before press- 



130 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

ing, and afterwards ripened. There is also a soft cheese on the 
market which sells for something like seventy-five cents a pound 
and which is made from three parts of butter and one part of cheese. 
[t is put up in earthen jars and is a palatable lunch or dessert cheese. 
America at the present time has an unenviable reputation for 
making what are known commercially as "filled" cheeses. They are 
made of skimmed milk, sufllcient fat, either of lard or cotton seed oil, 
being added to the warm milk to take the place of cream. This mix- 
ture is thoroughly emulsified before the curd and whey are separ- 
ated, and the cheeses are then colored and pressed. When new they 
can scarcely be distinguished from the honestly made article but 
they do not cure well and when ripened can easily be detected by 
their lack of flavor. The consumer gets in such cheese a flavorless 
and indigestible article of food, and the makers who produce a good 
cream cheese suffer equally through the reputation which the 
American product has in foreign markets. That may be one reason 
why Americans themselves depend so largely upon imported cheese, 
and this condition will continue until the people realize the value 
of cheese as a substantial food and until they so thoroughly under- 
stand the science of cheese making that results will always be uni- 
form. The curing of cheese is not yet wholly understood but it is 
probable that before long bacteriological science will make it possi- 
ble to produce numerous varieties with always uniform results, and 
that some day the product known as poisonous cheese will be 
wholly unknown. What the Roquefort peasantry, the makers of 
Edam, Gruyfere, and Camembert, have accomplished after gener- 
ations of tedious and blundering experiments, the cheese makers of 
America will at no late date be enabled to accomplish through a 
scientific understanding of the nature and development of the in- 
visible micro-organisms known as bacteria. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



BUTTEBINE. 




ONSULTING history, we find that for 
many decades prior to 1870 the poorer 
classes of the French, the members of 
both army and navy, and the inmates of 
many public institutions, had been the 
■ unwilling victims of poor butter; butter 
so rank and wretched that its only stable 
quality was its unfailing inferiority. In 
that year a certain French chemist, one 
Hyppolyte M6ge, awakened to this fact. 
He determined to give the people a sub- 
'I stitute for this intolerable butter, which 

should be clean, of good flavor, palatable, 
nutritious, in short, which should possess all the characteristics of 
the best butter. For he realized that butter or some wholesome fat 
was by no means a luxury that people might do without, but an ab- 
solute necessity as food. Hyppolyte M€ge should be accounted one 
of the benefactors of the human race. 

He had observed that poorly fed cows still furnished excellent 
butter, which, he reasoned, must therefore have been supplied from 
their own fat instead of from their insuflBcient supply of food. This 
led him to establish, just before the Franco-Prussian war, an exper- 
imental factory at Poissy. From freshly killed beef he took the 

10 



132 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

kidney and caul fat and from it produced an article which was 
agreeable to taste, which melted at the same temperature as butter, 
which did not become rancid nearly as soon as the original article 
and which was just as useful in cookery. This wa^he prototype of 
our modern butterine. The fat thus ob ~" ^^^known to be 

identical with that of milk and the whoiSSSi^]f^iP'i?king was 
far more cleanly than that of the average butter. Tnemethod, which 
was in 1873 finally adopted by M. M^ge, was as follows: The best 
quality of fat from freshly killed beef was obtained, finely cut to 
separate the membranous or connective tissue, and thrown into a 
steam-heated tank. To 1000 parts of fat were added 300 parts of 
water, one part carbonate of potash, and two she&p's or pig's 
stomachs (the latter containing pepsin and alw«i''?a'^ised for form- 
ing the curd in the making of cheese). A-tter two hours, aided by 
a temperature of 103° P., the pepsin of these stomachs had digested 
or made soluble the membranous tissue and the melted fat had 
risen to the surface. That was the basis of his butter. 

The fat thus melted away from the membranes is known in 
some countries as "bosch," in Paris as "siege butter," because it was 
used during the famous siege. It is pure and wholesome and, from 
a nutritive standpoint, an adequate substitute for butter, although " 
not to be compared to the later product known as butterine. Butter 
itself is a raw fat, of a peculiarly sweet taste, but the fat of good 
beef, when liberated by heat or in water at a low temperature, de- 
velops a similar sweet and agreeable fiavor, which it does not pos- 
sess in the raw state. 

The modern methods of making butterine have been simplified 
and consist in using the fat from f reshly-kUled animals, it being 
taken only when thoroughly chilled, shredding it finely and heating 
it by steam to a temperature averaging 150° F. At this point the 
fat separates and is drawn oflf into other vats where it is quickly 
chilled, When cool, it is put into the press which separates the 
stearin? from the olein contained. 'The stearin is that constituent 
of the fat which has great solidity and a high melting point. Butter 
from' Jersey cows is characteristically hard because of the large 
aimount of stearin contained. The olein, called "oleo oil" in the 
factories, is yellow, granular and sweet to the taste, much resembling 
butter just as it begins to "gather" after churning. 

The separated fats are then churned with milk and usually 
mixed with a greater or lesser quantity of butter. Salt js added, 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 133 

also a sufficient amount of coloring material, and the product is 
known as bvitterine or oleomargerine. The coloring material is an- 
natto, which is universsilly used in the coloring of cheese and butter. 
There is also added a substance caUed "neutral" to the olein of the 
beef suet. It is made from the best leaf lard, which is subjected to 
the same process as the beef fat and, like it, consists of both oil 
and a solid fat. The earliest oleomargerine did not contain neutral 
and it is to-day used because of its value, chemically, when 
added to the other ingredients. In price it averages higher than 
beef suet. It improves the grain of artificial butter as well as its 
quality and reduces the difference between butterine and the best 
Elgin butter, according to actual chemical analysis, to less than one 
per cent. I am told on good authority that several creameries are now 
adding neutral to their butter, finding that it improves the quality. 

The best creamery butterine contains about 25 per cent of 
creamery butter, 30 per cent of neutral, 25 per cent of olein and the 
remaining 20 per cent of salt and cream, the latter obtained from 
the milk with which the butterine is churned. Dairy butterine con- 
tains a smaller percentage of pure butter. To the cheaper grades 
of butterine a small quantity of cotton-seed oil is added. This is 
specially valuable during the winter months, as it renders the but- 
terine less solid. 

Each prime beef yields, upon an average, forty pounds of olein, 
while the leaf lard from each animal produces about six pounds of 
neutral. 

Here is the whole process of making an article of food which 
many people look upon with horror, which the government taxes 
outrageously, and yet which, it is well known, is produced in the 
most cleanly manner and according to the most scientific principles, 
and which the leading scientists of both Europe and America have 
pronounced to be clean, wholesome and possessing the same nutri- 
tive value as the very best butter. Let us examine its constituents. 
The basis is beef suet which every housewife prizes, the <Jb6 indis- 
pensable ingredient of her suet puddings. The olein is the ^eHcious 
granular fat which we call "drippings." In the frugal hoines of 
England it is commonly salted and eaten upon bread, particularly 
by the children. Lard is indispensable, so we think, to pastry, pies 
and doughnuts and is often used upon bread by the Germans in- 
stead of butter. The cotton-seed oil we daily use, under its at- 
tractive pseudonym, olive oU, in the preparation of our salads. 



134 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

Yet no article of food has ever been so persistently fought; its 
most ponderous and (if the truth must be told) most ignorant oppo- 
nent, the government of the United States; its most shrewd and un- 
scrupulous antagonist, the middleman or butter dealer. The gov- 
ernment endeavors to protect the butter makers of the country; the 
butter dealer, who makes fifty per cent in the handling of low 
grades of butter, to protect himself. According to the law, all man- 
ufacturers of butterine must furnish bonds, pay special and internal 
revenue taxes, give monthly reports of all material used, and must 
furnish samples for governmental inspection whenever requested. 
It is nothing less than a travesty upon the scientific and enlight- 
ened American people that the makers of a food which is pro- 
nounced by scientists to be excellent and nutritious and in no re- 
spect whatever objectionable, and which was first made to give the 
poor a wholesome food, should be compelled to pay a tax of two 
cents upon each pound put forth; that each wholesale dealer must 
pay a tax of §10 per month and each retailer, S4.00. 

In Michigan it is illegal to use butterine in any public institu- 
tion although it is by no means probable that the criminals, paupers 
and insane of that state are fed upon the finest and most gilt-edged 
of dairy products or upon that which is even palatable. In Ohio any 
hotel keeper who places butterine before his guests is liable to in- 
dictment, if it can be proven that it is not butter, by no means an 
easy thing to do. In Massachusetts it is illegal to color butterine 
yellow. In Now York its sale is all but prohibited. But it is use- 
less to multiply examples. It were far more to the credit of this 
nation had it commissioned our chemists, as did the French govern- 
ment, to produce an adequate substitute for butter, and had then 
given it the stamp of public recognition and approval. 

But buttei'ine has survived these attacks. Why? Because 
chemistry has proven it to be all that the manufacturers claimed 
for it and chemistry is a careful and never bigoted investigator. 
Let us see what the scientists report: Says the noted Professor 
Chandler of Columbia College, "It is palatable and wholesome and 
I regard it as a most valuable article of food." Says Henry Morton 
of the Stevens Institute of Technology, New Jersey, "It is essentially 
identical with the best fresh butter, and is superior to much of the 
butter made from, cream alone found in the market." Says S. W. 
Johnson, Professor of Agricultural Chemistry in Yale College, "It is 
a product that is entirely attractive and wholesome as food, and one 



FOOD PKODUOTS OF THE WORLD. 135 

that for all ordinary and culinary purposes is the full equivalent of 
good butter made from cream. I regard the manufacture of oleo- 
margerine as a legitimate and beneficent industry." Prof. W. O. 
Atwater, Director of the Government Experiment Station in Con- 
necticut, and one of the foremost authorities on foods, states that 
butterine "contains essentially the same ingredients as butter made 
from cow's milk. It is perfectly wholesome and healthy and has 
a high nutritive value." 

From one of the state asylums for the insane where butterine 
has been recently prohibited the resident physician lately wrote me: 
"I have myself inspected the entire process of manufacture in the 
factory and I know of no product of food in which more apparent 
care and cleanliness were exercised in the selection of material and 
preparation of the finished product. It is a cheaper article than 
butter and uniformly more satisfactory in an institution of this 
character. There was no diflBculty in keeping it clean and sweet 
in the amount we ordered, usually twelve hundred pounds. (It was 
used until prohibited.) I believe it to be a wholesome and healthy 
food product and more desirable than much of the butter that is 
presented in the markets for sale." 

It is easy to ascertain why scientists and authorities on foods 
universally approve this article, in spite of popular prejudice against 
it. Mrst of aU, chemistry has shown it to contain all the elements 
of the best butter, the nutritive value of both being identical. 
Next, the process of making is absolutely cleanly. I have known 
the butter making industry of various rural districts for twenty-five 
years, I have also visited numerous creameries and butterine facto- 
ries and, as far as cleanliness is concerned, I unhesitatingly prefer 
butterine to butter of which I do not know the history of making. 
No place could be more sweet and clean and odorless, more free 
from every indication of dirt, than the butterine factories which I 
have visited. Steam, the best known deodorizer and germicide, 
is the principle agent of cleanliness. The immense vats, floors, 
pipes, all are daily cleansed by steam. No dairy-maid as she daint- 
ily pats her rolls of butter could be more cleanly than the girls who, 
in white caps and aprons, stand about the tables of the finishing 
room, wrapping each pound of butterine in oiled paper, preparatory 
to the final packing. 

WhUe in the South some two years ago, I investigated both the 
butter and butterine of the markets. Although at that time 



136 FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

strongly prejudiced, my verdict was unfailingly in favor of the latter 
article. It is true, however, that the butter of our southern markets 
is not generally of so good a quality as that of the North. 

Again, the heat which is used to separate the oil from the mem- 
branous fatty tissues kills many of the germs and renders the pro- 
duct less liable to changes in flavor than is butter. To this fact is 
due its excellent keeping qualities and its uniform flavor. The 
greatest danger of infection is encountered in the milk and butter 
which are mixed with the best grades of butterine after the heating 
process. 

During the Columbian Exposition, where butterine was exten- 
sively exhibited, an experienced hotel proprietor from one of our 
metropolitan cities said to me: "I am at last converted to the use 
of butterine, and it happened in this way. We had been having 
butter not up to the usual standard for some time. I told the stew- 
ard he m.ust make a change. A month passed and he asked me how 
I liked the butter. 'Excellent,' said I, 'procure that quality and 
there will be no complaint.' He then told me that during the past 
month he had been serving butterine. We have had butterine ever 
since." The hotel referred to is a wealthy and high class famUy 
hotel. 

During the year ending in June, 1893, there were produced in 
the United States, according to governmental report of internal 
revenues, 67,685,549 pounds. The commissioner reported that "the 
production of oleomargerine or butterine has nearly doubled dur- 
ing the past five years," and he further stated that "this has become 
a recognized article of food and its manufacture is one of the recog- 
nized industries of the country. There is in nearly all the states 
an increased demand for it under its proper name and that by per- 
sons fully informed of the nature of the substance. While it is 
used as a substitute for butter its production and sale have not, as 
shown by commercial reports and statistics, reduced the price of 
the higher grades of butter. The most reliable writers in this 
country on food products and those who have given the subject 
careful study state that oleomargerine, if carefully and properly 
prepared, is a healthful article of diet, a wholesome substitute for 
butter, and can be furnished at less cost. The special taxes im- 
posed upon wholesale dealers ($480 yearly) and retail ($48) are ex- 
orbitant compared with the special taxes imposed upon other occu- 
pations, and I respectfully submit for your consideration the pro- 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 137 

priety of a reduction of the special taxes imposed upon wholesale 
dealers in oleomargerine to 1120 and the tax imposed upon retail 
dealers to $12 per year. I am satisfied that the reduction of the 
taxes to the sums above named would not result in loss of revenue." 
It was Brillat Savarin who said: "The discovery of a new dish 
does more for the happiness of the human race than the discovery 
of a star." Butterine is certainly a new food, recognized by chem- 
ists and hygienists everywhere as palatable, wholesome, pure and 
nutritious. Yet our government persistently places it under the 
ban. I do not object to the rigid governmental inspection. It were 
far better if our butter were subjected to the same examination, as 
well as most of our foods. But the tax is unreasonable and undem- 
ocratic. It keeps the price of this article beyond the purses of the 
very people who need it most, the illy-nourished laboring classes. 
The price of the best butter will never be affected by any reduction 
whatever in the price of butterine and inferior qualities ought to be 
swept out of existence, for that the quality of butter will be affected 
by competition with butterine is certain. It will have to become 
purer and more uniform in flavor. Certain classes will always eat 
butter and will pay high prices for it, for the best butter can never 
be produced as cheaply as butterine. But the unprejudiced and 
the poor should not be compelled to pay a special tax (amounting 
to about three cents upon each pound consumed) upon a food 
which is not a luxury but a necessity. The state laws against but- 
terine have been enacted, it is very evident, by men ignorant alike 
of the methods of making and of its food value to that class of peo- 
ple who are usually the victims of inferior butter. The relentless 
war which has been waged against butterine has been actuated by 
commercial and mercenary, not by scientific nor humanitarian 
motives. 



CHAPTEE XVII. 



VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS. 



ONTRAEY to general belief, these consti- 
tute a large and very important group of 
food products. It has been already shown 
that fat of some kind is an absolute neces- 
sity to the maintenance of health although, 
if used exclusively, not sufiacient to sustain 
life for any length of time. The scientists 
who have most recently investigated the 
dietaries of the laboring classes have 
found that about two and one-half ounces 
of fat should be taken daily in addition to 
other food, while one ounce or less is sadly 
insufficient. Various diseases of a scrofulous nature are believed 
to be induced or furthered by a lack of fat in the foods taken into 
the system and, as is well known, the time-honored cure for aU 
such ills is cod-liver oil. The French agricultural chemists have 
proven by experiments that, however varied and abundant their 
food, animals more quickly fattened and were put into prime condi- 
tion more easily by the addition of a small quantity of fat to their 
food supply. 

All people use fats in a greater or lesser degree, and there is a 
physiological reason for the natural craving of the system for them. 
Fats are heat producers and are most largely consumed in the cold 
climates, e. g., the whale and seal blubber in the Arctic regions. But 
all people depend upon fats and oils of some kind, and even the na- 
tives of the tropics are abundantly satisfied by the oUs contained 
in the nuts which they consume. 




140 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOULD. 

The following table by Youmans indicates the percentage of fat 
or oil contained in average samples of every-day foods: 

Yolkofegg 28.75 Wheat flour, 1 to 2 

Ordinary meat (Liebig) 14.03 Barley meal 2 

Indian com 9.00 Potatoes (dried) 1 

Oatmeal 6.00 Eice 0.8 

Cow's milk (variable) 3.13 Buckwheat 0.4 

Rye flour 3.5 

Vegetable oils are both fixed and volatile, the former compris- 
ing that class which resembles animal oils in many particulars and 
which may be subdivided into true and drying oils. Only that class 
of fixed oils available for food will here be mentioned. 

Nearly every substance belonging to the vegetable kingdom 
contains more or less fat among its tissues. In some plants it exists 
in minute quantities, in others it is so abundant as to be easily ob- 
tained and transformed into an article of commerce. One of the 
most important of our oils is extracted from a substance that until 
recently was accounted a waste product. I refer to that pressed from 
the seed of the cotton-plant. For years the cotton seed of our 
southern plantations sorely taxed the ingenuity of the owners in its 
disposal. It persistently accumulated and persistently refused to 
perish. If thrown into the streams it simply choked them, if used 
upon land as a fertilizer its slow transformation into soil rendered 
it practically useless. Quantities were used for feeding cattle, al- 
though that was but a partial solution of the problem. The dis- 
posal of this so-called waste product became a grave question, owing 
to its utter imperishability. But that very quality kept it before 
the people and finally resulted in an attempt to extract the oil from 
the fatty seeds. The attempt was successful, the oil being at first 
utilized in the manufacture of soap, then as a lubricating oil for 
machinery, then for illuminating, later as a substitute for linseed 
oil in the mixing of paints. But in no one of these oflQces did it 
quite give satisfaction, for as yet the subtle and refined character- 
istics of this product of King Cotton were little understood. Later 
it was more highly refined with all the skiU. of modem chemistry 
and behold the result! — a clear, amber-colored, flavorless, odorless, 
limpid, bland oil, the rival of that other which has held sway for 
ages in the culinary world, the oil of the olive. How popular and 
how extensively used it has become, figures can best explain. In 
1872 the export from the United States amounted to 547,165 gallons, 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 141 

valued at $293,546. During 1893, but little more than a decade later, 
the quantity exported seems fabulous — almost nine and one-half 
millions of gallons, valued at nearly 14,000,000. So valuable has this 
oil become since refining and so universally is it liked as a food, 
that it is now annually exported to forty-two different nations. It 
is interesting to note that France last year bought 1,205,108 gallons, 
Italy 462,244 gallons, and Spain 5,000, when one remembers that 
these are the countries of the olive tree and the exporting bureaus 
of olive oiL Just how much of it returns to our shores in dainty, 
wicker flasks, labeled "huile cToUve" we ^hall never fcjow: yet it is a 
fact that at all the Mediterranean ports from which olive oil is ex- 
ported, hundreds of barrels of cotton-geed oil are annually un- 
loaded. Holland takes nearly two-fifths of our entire supply and 
uses it in the manufacturing of butter. This butter, so-called, is 
enclosed in hermetically sealed cans and shipped to Indian the West 
India Islands, and to Central and South America. Germany buya 
annually over one million gallons, England nearly that amount, 
while Austria and the other European countries consume smaller 
quantities. Each year increases the number of gallons taken by 
the West Indies, particularly Cuba, by Central and South America, 
in all of which countries it comes into direct competition with the 
olive oil from Spain. During the last year Mexico purchased 
671,000 gallons, Brazil, 304,155, the British and French West Indies 
more than a quarter million, while Africa and Australia took a like 
quantity. Throughout the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the United 
States immense quantities are annually used in the canning factories 
for the preserving of fish, as well as millions of gallons, combined 
with animal f ats, ii the production of various lard and suet com- 
pounds, such as cottolene, cotosuet, vegetol, suetol, etc. The com- 
mercial importance of the cotton seed oil industry of the United 
States is enormous, to say nothing of its food value. It is one of 
the most wholesome of fats and, when perfectly refined, a process 
that has been but recently perfected, is valuable in cookery and in 
the preparation of salads. It has not the delicate flavor of olive oil 
although, when skUf ully combined with the other ingredients of a 
salad dressing, none but an epicure could detect the difference. 
The fact that of itself it is almost flavorless accounts for the possi- 
bility of largely adulterating olive oil with it without danger of 
detection. 

There is something significant in the fact that this distinctly 



142 POOD PKODOCTS OF THE WORLD. 

American product was so scantily displayed at the Columbian Ex- 
position. The states which produce the largest quantities ignored 
its existence. Louisiana made a small exhibit, the New York Cot- 
ton-oil company, which reflnes the oil, one somewhat larger. It is 
in every way nutritious, pure, wholesome, and palatable, and should 
have been as largely exhibited by the states producing it as was 
olive oil by Spain, Italy, Prance and Algiers. It argues a snobbish- 
ness quite unworthy of democratic America to sell this product to 
European countries and then buy it from them six months later, 
transferred from barrel to bottle, renamed, and with the price many 
times doubled. We should place this oil upon our tables labeled 
with its light name, proud that it is a distinctively American pro- 
duct, equal in all essential respects to any oil produced. 

But the oil par excellence is that of the olive. The tree dates 
back to patriarchal, times, having been one of the special blessings 
of the Promised Land, and it has always been abundant throughout 




Olives. 

Palestine, although now extensively cultivated throughout the Med- 
iterranean countries, in Algiers, and in Asia. Its value as a food 
has increased with the centuries of its usage untU to-day it, or an un- 
suspected adulterant, is to be found in nearly every household. Its 
high price alone prevents a more extended use, although in the 
countries where it is produced the poorest among the peasantry use 
it daily. Even the soap originally used in Palestine was made from 
olive oU and from a potash extracted from the alkaline plants about 
the Dead Sea. The tree was brought to the United States by mis- 
sionaries who planted it in Mexico and California where, owing to 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 143 

care and cultivation, it has become an important source of revenue. 
It is claimed that the olive can be grown to perfection in. the south- 
eastern Atlantic States but, as the fruit ripens at just the time of 
cotton-picking, it could not be attended to with profit. The tree is 
an evergreen which attains to great beauty and immense size after 
cultivation although in its wild state it is small, ungainly, and 
covered with thorns. It reaches a remarkable age and, as it always 
produces abundantly, is most valuable. The wood possesses great 
beauty of grain; and among the historic Greeks no greater honor 
could be conferred upon an illustrious poet, sculptor or combatant 
than a simple crown or circlet of the tiny, leathery, dark, grayish- 
green leaves. 

The olive tree produces fruit at six years of age which, of little 
value in its fresh state, forms, when pickled, a delicate, valuable and 
nutritious condiment. From the fleshy pericarp an oil is expressed, 
clear and beautiful, delicate of flavor and altogether the daintiest 
known for medicinal, table or culinary usage. The oil of the Euro- 
pean countries is estimated to keep "sweet" for four years while 
that from California, when carefully pressed from properly cared- 
f or, unbruised fruit, has been known to resist damaging changes for 
an entire decade. This is probably diie to the greater cleanliness 
and more scientific care used in the modern industry in California 
than is the case in tradition-bound Italy and Spain. In many of the 
olive producing countries of Europe the oil is expressed by the 
present generation much as it was by their fathers, with total lack 
of labor-saving appliances or of scientific care. One writer (Mr. 
Hayne of California) describes an olive oil mill recently visited by 
him in Nice "in which there were two mules, eight people, three 
dogs, kitchen, manure heap, wash tubs, oil tanks, presses, heaps of 
olives, and a smolsy fire, all in one cellar, the walls of which were 
covered with smoky grease. After dinner I sat down in this pen 
and saw eight well-filled pipes lighted up." This is by no means a 
typical picture, for cleanliness and skill are and must be inevitable 
factors in the making of the best grades of European oil. But it is 
nevertheless true that the people of California have the great ad- 
vantage of being unhampered by traditional processes which are 
usually at variance with modem science. 

The methods of producing olive oil differ widely in detail but 
are yet substantially as follows: The fruit is picked by hand before 
it is quite ripe, the oil being expressed soon after gathering. Bruis- 



1« FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

ing the fruit or leaving it in piles to "sweat" or ferment has a most 
detrimental effect upon the color and particularly the flavor of the 
oil. The freshly gathered fruit is first crushed in a mUl, the pulp 
being then pressed much as is apple pulp in making cider, the oil 
which first flows from the press constituting the lightest and best 
grade, known as~virgin oil. This is filtered of impurities by various 
means, a filter of cotton being used in California, and the beautiful, 
limpid, delicious oil of our tables is then bottled for sale and export. 

It would be to our advantage if olive oil could be as easily and 
cheaply obtained in America as is the case in certain localities of 
Europe, for the superiority of vegetable over animal products is, 
from the standpoint of health and purity, unquestioned. At pres- 
ent there is so much prejudice against the home product that the 
general public prefers to pay a double price for the foreign article, 
the customary adulteration of which is well known. During a recent 
visit in California I was told that the best olive oil could not be 
produced at any profit in that state for less than two dollars per 
gallon. At the same time the retail stores in San Francisco were 
selling "best imported olive oil" for one dollar and twenty-five cents 
per gallon. The inference made is obvious. But it is our own fault. 
We have two distinctively American products, both excellent from 
a chemical as well as from a nutritive standpoint; one, the product 
of the stately western tree, the other, of the invaluable cotton plant 
of our southern states. Both should be found in every household 
and in every market throughout the land, sold unadulterated and 
under their own names, one oil of course being much higher in price 
than the other. We should be loyal to both, and not, by unreason- 
able demands for "genuine" olive oil at a low price, tempt our own 
makers to adulterate their product as the makers of Europe have 
done. The olive growers of California are working enthusiastically 
along scientific line's and it is not too much to predict that if they 
are encouraged by the good sense and loyalty of the American people 
the olive oil of our far western state will come to be known as the 
purest and most superior in the world. 

The largest exhibit of olive oil made at the World's Columbian 
Exposition was in the California state building. No one who saw 
it can forget the great columns of the bottled oil, clear as crystal, 
and of most delicate color and flavor. 

If California led in the immensity of her exhibit, Spain excelled 
in number of exhibitors, of which there were nearly one hundred. 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 



145 



Spain has a well earned reputation for producing excellent oil. 

Italy made a fine exhibit of Lucca oil, which was put up in dainty 
flasks. This is reputed to be the best in the world. 

Algiers sent twenty -two exhibits of oil which, while good, was 
not equal to the Spanish or Italian, owing probably to the crude 
method of extracting it. 

France exhibited largely of a very superior oU. 

Peanut oil is produced from the fatty, subterranean nut of a 

leguminous plant, believed to have been native to Africa. It is very 

generally cultivated in warm climates and there are allied species 

in the southern states of North America where it is an important 

agricultural product. It is largely 
eaten, having a high nutritive value, 
but is of greater importance in the pro- 
duction of oil. The peanut contains 
from forty to fifty per cent of oil, clear, 
odorless, colorless, resembling olive oil 
in many respects, and having the prop- 
erty of resisting change under all ordi- 
nary exposure for a great length of 
time. The fact that it is largely ex- 
ported to European countries fully 
warrants the suspicion that quantities 
of it are returned to us as "pure olive 
oil" for table use. While it is one of 
our most important southern industries 
it was not exhibited at the Columbian 
Exposition excepting by certain of the 
Peanut. French colonies; and many a fastidious 

American who could never have countenanced oil made from, 
the plebeian southern "goober," expressed wholly epicurean admira- 
tion for the dainty bottles filled with amber oil and labeled "Huile, 
pistache de terre'' 

Both Argentine Republic and Eussia exhibited largely of turnip 
seed oiL It is produced from the seed of the turnip plant, growing 
wild inparts of Eussia, and Scandinavia, and which is, as Grant 
Allen would say, first cousin to both cabbage and mustard. It is 
cultivated in nearly all temperate climates and, where greatly im- 
proved by cultivation, the root,. a succulent vegetable, is used for 
food. The seed is rich in a bland, almost colorless, oil which posses- 




146 FOOD PEODaCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

ses many of the properties of the oil of the cotton-seed. In the 
countries in wliich it is produced it takes important rank as a food, 
and much resembles the oil produced from rape seed. 

The rape seed, a plant of the turnip family, is to be found in 
abundance throughout Europe, where it is cultivated. When young 
and succulent the tender green leaves are used much as is 
spinach, both in the making of salads and as a pot-herb. It is 
largely used as a forage plant, although its greatest value lies in the 
oil expressed from the seeds. Both Japan and Russia exhibited 
quantities of rape-seed oil, which was tasteless, odorless, and a 
wholly desirable oil for table or kitchen use. 

The sunflower, although a tropical plant, is extensively culti- 
vated in temperate Europe and America, and is a garden favorite. 
In Russia it is cultivated for the seed, which produces about forty 
per cent of oil and which, v/hen refined, is useful for culinary pur- 
poses. A large exhibit was sent to the Columbian Exposition by 
Russia. 

Almond oil is produced from the kernel of the nut of the 
almond tree, common to southern Europe and Asia. There are two 
varieties, known as the bitter and the sweet, from the latter being ex- " 
pressed the almond oil of commerce, although oil from the bitter al- 
mond is also produced,a cheap- 
er product commercially. 
The sweet almond oil is clear, 
odorless, and valuable medi- 
cinally as well as in the prep- 
aration of foods for the table. 
The tree is now extensively 
^ grown in southern California, 

Palm oil Strainer. although no oil is expressed 

from the nuts, owing to the great demand for them as a table 
nut. 

Oil is also obtained from the fibrous second coatjog^jf^ the fruit 
of a species of palm, allied to the cocoanut palm and native to 
Africa. The oil is clear, limpid, agreeable to the taste and having . 
the odor of violets. In Liberia it is clarified of the fibrous particles 
contained in it after being expressed by straining through a dipper 
of woven twigs. The fibrous residue is boiled down and from it is 
obtained a palm butter, used by the poorer classes. 

One of the most valuable of oils is that of the cocoa-nut, the fruit 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 147 

of a palm indigenous to Ceylon but common to most ttopical coun- 
tries. It is 3eIicrdus'ot" flavor and useful both for cooking and as a 
table oU. It is usually not entii-ely extracted f ronTthe nut, a small 
quantity being retained that the edible portion may be further util- 
ized by drying and desiccating. The desiccated cocoanut exhibited 
at the Exposition by Ceylon was far superior, in points of nutrition 
and flavor, to the American product, owing to the fact that none of 
the oil was extracted. The cocoa-nut palm tree grows luxuriantly 
and is an article of absolute necessity to the natives of the tropics. 
Without it they could scarcely manage to exist. The tender, green 
fruit or "cabbage" is eaten. From its juice is made a drink called 
"toddy," which, by boiling, is converted into the native sugar, "jag- 
gery." The trunks, small and large, are used for nearly everything 
from water pipes to posts; the leaves for thatching; from the 
fibrous covering of the fruit are woven ropes, mats and garments. 
Whittier, in his beautiful little poem on the palm tree has sung its 
praises more justly than I can do: 

Is It the palm, the cocoarpalm. 

On the Indian Sea, by the isles of balm? 

Or is it a ship in the breezeless calm? 

A ship whose keel is ot palm beneath, 
Whose Tibs of palm have a palm-bark sheath, 
And a rudder of palm it steereth with. 

Branches of palm are its spars and rails, 
Fibres of palm are its woven sails. 
And the rope is of palm that idly trails ! 

What does the good ship bear so well? 
The cocoanut with its stony shell 
And the milky sap of its inner cell. 

What are its jars so smooth and fine, 

But hollowed nuts, fiUed with oil and wine, 

And the cabbage that ripens under the Line? 

Who smokes his nargUeh, cool and calm? 

The master, whose cunning and skill could charm 

Cargo and ship from the bounteous palm. 

In the cabin he sits on a palm-mat soft, 
From a beaker of palm his drink is quaffed, 
And a palm-thatch shields from the sun aloft! 

His dress is woven of palmy strands, 
And he holds a palm leaf scroll in his hands, 
Raced with the Prophet's wise cpmmssds ! 
U 



118 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

The turban folded about his head 

Was daintily wrought of the palm-leaf braid, 

And the fan that cools him of palm was made. 

Of threads of palm was the carpet spun 
Whereon he kneels when the day is done, 
And the foreheads of Islam are bowed as one! 

To Mm the palm is a gift divine. 
Wherein all uses of man combine,— 
House, and raiment, and food, and wine ! 

And in the hour of his great release, 
His need of the palm shall only cease 
With the shroud wherein he lieth in peace. 

"Allah 11 Allah!" he sings his psahn. 
On the Indian Sea by the Isles o£ bahn ; 
"Thanks to Allah who gives the palm !" 

Cocoa butter is a fat which at ordinary temperatures is solid 
but which melts at about 90 o p. It is obtained from the seeds of the 
Caeoa theobroma, a tree native to Mexico, from the seeds of which 
chocolate and cocoa are also produced. This fat has the excellent 
quality of keeping "sweet," and of retaining its fine flavor much 
longer than oils in general. It constitutes nearly fifty per cent of 
the cocoa seeds or beans and is expressed from them by 
crushing, grinding and the application of heat. The use of cocoa 
butter is very general throughout the countries in which it is 
produced, but it is high priced in foreign markets, owing to the 
fact that its use is almost wholly medicinal. Like all of the vege- 
table fats and oils it deserves recognition and more extended use 
because of its nutritive value. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 




OEBEALS. 



^"~^ HEN Sir Richard Bannister of London, judge upon 
agricultural products at the World's Columbian 
Exposition, was asked to give his opinion of Amer- 
ica, he replied: "The agricultural resources of 
your land, particularly of the great West, have 
surprised and interested me more than all else. In 
these rest the future, the marvelous future, of 
America." He was right. If Ceres hovers over 
any land to-day, that land is America, with her astonishing crops of 
vegetables and fruits and her millions of acres of grain. She pos- 
sesses the greatest agricultural district in the modern world, if 
greatness be measured by advanced methods in the planting, tillage 
and harvesting of cereals as well as by extent. She has profited 
richly by the experiences of the older nations; Egypt, the land of 
com and wheat; Rome with her wealth of agricultural interests, 
immortalized by Virgil and Cato; Saracenic Spain, Saxon England, 
and peasant Italy, France and Germany. No country possesses soil 
and climate more appropriate to the growth of cereal crops than 
America and none other promises so lavishly for the future. 

The greatest food crops of the world are cereals: wheat, rice, 
com, oats, barley, rye, and millet, all belonging to the graminece or 
grass family, the herbage and seed of nearly all members of which 
are valuable foods for both animal and man. By common consent, 
wheat takes first rank, .being richest of all cereals in protein, and 



150 FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

old Homer was not wrong when he defined it as "the marrow of 
men." There are now more than one hundred and fifty varieties, 
due to variation of soil, climate and cultivation, the origin of them 
all being so lost in antiquity that it cannot be traced. But chemist 
and botanist have analyzed the tiny kernel until it has divulged to 
a curious world all the secrets entrusted to its care by the sunshine, 
the soU and the showers. The botanist alone has revealed the 
poetic side of its evolution, for he tells us that wheat is simply a de- 
generate lily, which, away back when the world was young, swung 
gaily on its stem beside its sister lilies. But, unlike many of its 
kindred, it depended upon the wind for fertilization and not upon 
meandering insects. So it needed no brightly colored petals with 
which to attract these insects, only long, quivering stamens from 
which pollen would fly at a breath and sensitive, feathery pistils to 
which the tiniest atom of pollen would cling. As a result not many 
blossoms became fertile and, that the seeds which did develop 
should have the best chances for existence, nature stored each little 
kernel well with gluten, starch and fat for the development of the 
young plant. Thus this lily came to have an unimportant blossom 
and a very important seed. Local differences of soil and climate 
differentiated the species and, after cultivation, our various cereals 
came into being. Says Grant Allen, the author of this theory as to 
the origin of wheat: "We thus trace the whole pedigree of wheat 
from the time its ancestors first diverged from the common stock 
of lilies and water plantains, to the time when savage man found it 
growing wild among the untilled plains of prehistoric Asia and took 
it under his special protection in the little garden plots around his 
wattled hut, until it has gradually altered under his constant selec- 
tion into the golden grain that now covers half the lowland tilth of 
Europe and America." 

Egypt cultivated wheat two thousand years before the Christian 
era while the Chinese claim precedence of even that marvelous date 
by seven hundred years. The lake-dwellers of prehistoric Switzer- 
land have left indubitable evidence of its cultivation and since most 
ancient oif times it has been carried from one country to another by 
explorers and hostile invaders as well as by philanthropists. Said 
Pliny: "The people of Bome for three hundred years together used 
no other food than groats made from common wheat." It was intro- 
duced into Mexico by Cortez and into Peru by a Spanish lady. 
Gosuold, the explorer, brought it to Massachusetts in the seven- 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 151 

teenth century and later we And that enterprising colony exporting 
quantities of it to Holland. The price, as late as 1635, was sixty 
cents a bushel, while fifty years later it brought in Maine $1.25. In 
1611 wheat was introduced into Virginia although, so zealous were 
the agriculturists in their cultivation of tobacco, the growing of 
it was almost wholly neglected for fifty years. 

Wheat is most extensively cultivated to-day in the western and 
northwestern portions of the United States, in Russia, which ranks 
next to America in extent of acreage, in France as well as in other 
European countries, and in India. 

A kernel of wheat examined under the microscope is seen to 
have several integuments or layers upon its surface, the outer one 
hard, wholly indigestible and therefore of no 
nutritive value. This is defined as husk or 
bran. The next layers are rich in nitrogen- 
ous matter and salts, are composed of gluten 
cells and constitute the most nutritious por- 
tion of the kernel. Beneath these are the 
cerealine cells, giving color and flavor, while 
the body or interior of the grain is composed 
Section of Wheat Grain, almost entirely of starch, a substance of 
Magnified. minor nutritive value. At the lower end of 

the grain is the tiny germ or embryo, for the nourishment of which 
are provided all these curiously wrought integuments. 

Wheats are variously classified as hard and soft, red and white, 
spring and winter, and subdivided occasionally into bearded and 
beardless varieties. The hardness and softness of the grain depends 
both upon its maturity and upon the amount of gluten contained. 
In either or any variety an unripiened grain is less hard and far less 
nutritious than if fully matured. The hard wheats are relatively 
more nutritious than the soft, being more largely composed of 
starch. In general the hard" wheats are produced in climates in 
which long summers allow the grain to perfectly mature, while the 
wheats of colder climates are softer and more fragile. 

Any variety may be either a spring or a vfinter wheat, depend- 
ing upon the time of sowing. The other subdivisions depend upon 
the color of the grain, whether red or white, and upon whether or 
not the variety contain awns or beards. 

Besides the value of wheaten preparations in the making of 
bread and macaroni, it has various minor uses. The whole grain 




152 FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

may be cooked until soft, a lengthy process, and eaten with milk or 
sugar. It may also be combined with milk and eggs into a pudding, 
which is palatable but rather indigestible, owing to the tough outer 
coating of the grain. Cracked wheat, rolled wheat, germ meal and 
various other wheaten preparations now upon the markets, attest to 
its wide usage as a breakfast food. A recent preparation is made 
from the shredded grain formed into oblong cakes and slightly baked. 
Almost numberless wheaten preparations are to be found in the 
market described as infant's or invalid's foods. Unfortunately, 
many of them contain little if any gluten, the strength-giving and 
easily digested substance, while consisting almost wholly of starch, 
a food most taxing to an already enfeebled digestion and which 
does not contain tissue-building elements. 

The display of wheat at the Columbian Exposition was marvel- 
ously complete. The varieties sent from Russia, from our own 
northwestern states, from Venezuela, and from the Mediterranean 
countries, particularly Italy, were conceded to be the finest. That 
from the latter country possesses a long, slender grain, and is of the 
hard, red variety, specially used in the manufacture of macaroni. 

Indian corn, Zea Mays, or more commonly maize, is indigenous 
to America, particularly, it is believed, to Central Mexico. The 
earliest explorers found it a staple food of the Indians and recent 
investigations of the Cliff Dwellers' homes in Colorado indicate 
that it was grown also by these prehistoric people. Specimens of 
ears of corn, three and four inches in length, were exhibited among 
the relics of Peruvian mummy pits at the Columbian Exposition, 
proving it .to have been quite as anciently a South American product. 

According to the Indian legend, maize was a gift from the Great 
Spirit who came to earth ages ago as a youth dressed in splendid 
garments of green and yeUow and promising them great good should 
he be wrestled with and overthrown. Hiawatha, fasting, leaped 
from his bed of branches and for seven nights contested with the 
youth in physical combat. At last he slew him. Ho buried the 
wrestler and tenderly watched his grave for many moons, keeping 
away the raven and all insects, 

" Till at length a small, green feather 
From the earth shot slowly upward, 
Then another and another. 
And before the summer ended 
Stood the maize in all its heauty 
With its shining rohes about it, 



FOOD PKODUCXS OF THE WOKLD. 153 

And Its long, solt yellow tresses. 



" And still later, when the autumn 
Changed the long, green leaves to yellow, 
And the soft and juicy kernels 
Grew like wampum, hard and yellow. 
Then the ripened ears he gathered. 
Stripped the withered husks from off them 
As he once had stripped the wrestler, 
Gave the first Feast of Mondamln, 
And made known unto the people 
This new gift of the Great Spii-it." 

In appearance the maize plant is tall, stately, of extraordinary 
beauty and tropical luxuriance of growth. Nothing could be more 
beautiful than the plant in full bloom, crowned with its waving, 
feathery tassel of staminate flowers, while below, nestled among a 
profusion of rustling leaves, hang out the long pink and green, 
silken styles of the com ear. The ear varies greatly throughout the 
three hundred species cultivated, both in color, size, and size of 
grain. The grain may be white, yellow, red, purple or occasionally 
mottled, and may also vary in nutritive value. Some varieties re- 
quire also a much greater length of time for growth than do others. 

From a nutritive standpoint corn is inferior to hard wheat, al- 
though containing about the same amount of nitrogenous matter as 
the soft varieties of wheat and fully five times as much fat. Owing 
to the lack of gluten it cannot be used in making a "light" or yeast 
bread. But its usefulness, nevertheless, is wide-reaching. When 
green it makes an excellent and nourishing food for cattle, for 
which purpose it is often planted in drills like wheat that the ears 
may not develop, leaving the stalks richer in sugar. The sweet 
varieties are used green as table corn, and "sugar corn" is exten- 
sively put up at many canning factories. In Mexico the stalks are 
utilized in extracting a syrup by pressure, which, when fermented, 
is made into a drink called "chica." Probably upon no food product 
is there put such a premium for misappropriation as upon corn. 
Prom a western paper I clip the following: "Corn in Nebraska sells 
f or twenty-flve cents per bushel. This, distilled, makes four and 
one-half gallons of spirits. After being manipulated by the distill- 
ers, this makes nine gallons of whiskey. This pays to the United 
States government ninety cents a gallon, which is a revenue of $8.10 
from one bushel of corn. This retails to the customer at ten cents 
a drink. Thus the nine gallons of whiskey bring $54, all from one 



154 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

bushel of com at twenty-flve cents." For many years the corn of 
our western prairies had so low a market value that it was 
raised at a profit only when utilized for feeding hogs, which thereby 
brought a higher market price. This is much to be regretted, as 
com meal or flour, properly prepared, is one of our most valuable 
cereal foods. Corn starch is an important product of the grain as 
well as com flour. But com meal, rich, yellow corn-meal, sung of 
poets and honored of sages, is the homespun dish which is common 
to all lands wherein corn is grown. The "pone" and "hoe-cake" of 
the south, eaten alike by negro and planter, the northern "johnny- 
cake" or com bread, the Boston brown bread of the east, the 
tortilla and pinole of Mexico, the mush, hasty pudding and samp of 
New England, all bear eloquent, even though silent, testimony to its 
homely value. Says Whittier: 

" There, richer than the fabled gift 
Apollo showered of old, 
Fair hands the broken grain shall sift, 
And knead Its meal of gold. 

" Let vapid idlers loll in silk 
Around their costly board; 
Give us the bowl of samp and milk, 
By homespun beauty poured." 

Effort has been made to introduce com and corn flour into 
Europe. It is grown but little there, as, owing to its extreme sus- 
ceptibility to frosts or even cool weather, it could not be grown 
profitably excepting in the Mediterranean portions. In England 
"com" refers to wheat, in Scotland, to oats.' But it is exported only 
to a limited extent, owing to the fact that if not well cured, either 
in the ear or the meal, it deteriorates in flavor; while, if not thor- 
oughly dried before being ground into meal its sweetness is lost. It 
is at its best only when perfectly cured and freshly ground, and few 
American housewives will order it even in small quantities, unless 
certain that it is "new" or fresh. It is said that the North American 
Indian kept the flavor of corn unchanged by carefully drying the 
ears, then, after shelling, drying the grain. After this process was 
finished it was carefully stored away in the ground, -protected by 
various mats or covermgs. The Mexican method of parching corn 
Is also unique, and is as follows: "An iron pot filled with sand is 
heated over the fire until very hot. Into this hot sand are placed 
two or three pounds of the com which is mixed with the hot sand 
by stirring until each grain bursts and throws out a white substance 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 155 

of twice its bigness. It is separated from the sand by sifting." 
Eiglit ounces of this is considered quite sufficient for one day's food 
supply. The variety used must be analogous to the variety known 
in the United States as "pop-corn." The bursting is due to the ex- 
pansion of the stai'ch granules and also, probably, to the generating 
of a gas which causes the explosive sound. 

The origin of the barley plant is related only in legends and to 
what land it is indigenous is therefore unknown. The Egyptians 
hold that the art of cultivating this grain was imparted to them 
anciently by the divine Isis, who herself brought it to them in a 
wild state, teaching them how to improve it in quality by care. In 
Exodus they are described as cultivators of flax and barley, of wheat 
and rye. 

Barley has been found in the lake dwellings of Switzerland, and 
is mentioned by Pliny as the first grain to have been used for the 
nourishment of man. Hippocrates and Galen both prescribed it 
medicinally, for its nourishing and soothing qualities. 

According to the Indian legend, related by a chief of the Sus- 
quehanna tribe to Dr. Franklin: "In the beginning, our fathers 
subsisted only upon the flesh of animals and, if the hunt was unsuc- 
cessful, they had but one alternative, starvation. One day, two of 
our young hunters having killed a deer, they cooked it over their 
Are and were preparing to eat when a beautiful young woman ap- 
peared from the clouds. She seated herself upon the hill which 
you see yonder, among the blue mountains. They said to each other, 
'It is a spirit who has smelted our venison and wishes to eat of it. 
Let us give her some.' So they gave her the tongue. She was 
greatly pleased and said, 'Your kindness shall be rewarded. Come 
to this place in thirteen moons and you will find something that 
will be for the nourishing of yourselves and your children unto the 
latest generation.' They came, thirteen moons later, and there 
found growing barley and maize." 

The cultivation of barley may be extended over a wider range 
than that of any other cereal, as it bears well both heat and cold 
and matures rapidly. It may thus be planted later and harvested 
earlier than wheat and in warm climates two crops a year may be 
produced, one in the spring from winter-sown grain and one in the 
autumn from seed sown in the spring. 

Barley contains more starch and less gluten than wheat, being 
for the latter reason unadapted for making light bread, and also 



1S6 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



contains seven parts in a hundred of saccharine mattef not f OOnd in 
wheat. It has been highly valued as a food since most ancient 
periods, in Greece, Kome, and countries of the Orient. According 
to Pliny the Roman gladiators were called hordearii from their use 
of this grain as food. In Japan one of the staple foods, miso-miso, 
ia prepared by combining the soy-bean and a preparation of barley. 
In Great Britain, particularly in Scotland, both a coarse barley 
meal and a finer cr patent barley meal are extensively used. Pearl 
barley, the preparation best known in America, consists of the 
whole grain, decorticated, rounded, and polished by attrition. 
Barley broth and barley water are widely commended as nourishing 
and refreshing drinks for invalids and children. 

Like all cereal foods, barley is made the basis of alcoholic 
drinks, an industry which began with the Egyptians and was con- 
tinued by the Greeks. It is not to be wondered at that poverty and 
famine inevitably follow in the train of so perverted a usage. 

Dr. Johnson, in his dictionary, characteristically defined oats as 

"a grain which in England is given to horses, but which in Scotland 

supports the people." This definition, although the grouty old 

doctor did not so intend it, speaks volumes for the wisdom and 

economy of the Scotch people in recognizing 

the value of so important a food. Like wheat, 

it is a member of the grass family, differing, 

however, in that the spikelets grow in the 

shape of a loose panicle, each tiny, closely-.. 

husked grain having a long beard or awn. 

Its origin either as to native place or spe- 
cies is unknown. According to De Gandolle it 
was unknown to the Egyptians, Hebrews, Greeks 
or ancient Romans, although in all probability 
cultivated by the aboriginal Swiss and perhaps 
by the ancient Germans. It is now grown, a 
plant of num^erous varieties, over most of the 
temperate zone. 

Nutritively, it stands high in the list of 
cereal foods, although it is unsuitable for mak- 
ing into a light bread because of the lack of 
gluten. Its chief use is in the form of a por- 
ridge, in preparing it for which the husk is removed and the grain 
then crushed by rollers or cut by steel knives. When left whole 




Asiatic Millet, 



FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 157 

it is called "groats" or "grits." There is an oven-baked preparation 
which is specially fine. The best American preparations are partially 
cooked by steam after which their adaptation in the household is 
a comparatively easy matter. If slowly cooked in boiling water, the 
mixture being kept rather thin, a delicious porridge of jelly-like 
consistency is the result. If strained and allowed to cool, you have 
a nutritious jelly or blanc mange. Oatmeal, chiefly a breakfast 
dish, is more extensively used in America by the well-to-do classes 
than by the poor, a fact to be regretted, for it is the latter class which 
most needs cheap, nourishing foods. 

In Ireland oatmeal is combined with corn meal in a porridge. 
In Scotland it Is truly the national dish. It is there frequently 
boiled in beef-stock when it is called "beef-brose," or in water in 
which cabbage has been cooked, making "kale-brose." It is the 
chief and typical food of the peasantry. Said a Scotch mother 
when asked how she persuaded her children to eat oatmeal, the de- 
spair of many an American mother, "I tell them that if they first 
eat their bowl of porridge they may have whatever else they wish. 
By the time that has been eaten they are satisfied." 

The consular report of 1889, relative to the condition of the 
poor of the great cities of Scotland, is significant. It states that 
porridge had so long been the main food of the poorer Scotch that 
the eating of it came to be considered a mark of poverty. So the 
city poor began substituting for it baker's bread and tea without 
adding sufficient of either milk or meat to their diet to bring it to a 
health-giving standard. The result: diseases of childhood, traceable 
directly to the lack of nutritious food. The report further states 
that projects are on foot to famish the poor a bowl of good por- 
ridge and milk for a penny, and it closes with these words: "What- 
ever else is done for the redemption of the 100,000 poor, and much 
is certain to be done, nothing will be wholly efficacious without a 
return to the diet that made their ancestors the finest soldiers and 
the most stalwart workers in the British Islands." 

MiUet is indigenous to the East Indies but has been cultivated 
in southern Europe since the days of the Greeks. It is almost un- 
used in America excepting as a food for animals, but in Russia and 
India forms a staple article of diet. During the recent Russian 
famine millet bread was for a long time the only food remaining be- 
tween the peasantry and starvation. MUlet flour, although very 
white and nutritious, does not make good bread unless combined 



158 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOEL0. 

with wheaten flour. The flour is, by the Orientals, made into a 
paste with fat, called kaddel, althongh. the grain is also eaten whole 
in the form of groats. 

Millet ought to be a profitable cereal crop as the plant is very 
prolific, capable of yielding per acre five times as much as would 
wheat. The Asiatic millet reaches even a. greater height than the 
American maize and is a plant of great beauty, owing to its delicate, 
feathery, profuse infloresence. The name comes from the Latin 
mille, a thousand, owing to its numberless tiny seeds, of which one 
kind, containing black seeds, is most used for the feeding of birds 
and poultry. Edwin Arnold describes the self -torture of a Yogi of 
ancient India, who 

" Meted a thousand grains of millet out, 
Ate it with famished patience, seed by seed. 
And so starved on." 

Rye is a cereal of comparatively recent cultivation, and is grown 
extensively only in northern Germany, Russia and Scandinavia, 
north of the wheat limit. It is lower in nutritive value than wheat, 
although containing sufficient gluten to enable it to 
be made into bread, the rye bread, ktimmel-brod and 
''pumpernickel" of the German bake-shop. In Amer- 
ica rye, excepting as an ingredient of Boston brown 
bread, is used chiefly by~lhe foreign element. The 
sour taste developed when made into bread is due 
to the rapid fermentation of the sugar contained. In 
appearance the rye plant resembles both wheat and 
barley. In Great Britain the plant, while green, is 
used as forage for cattle and horses. Its chief use is 
in the distilling of liquors. 

Buckwheat is not a cereal but a showy, herbace- 
ous plant, related to the rhubarb and sorrel, the 
name of which was originally beech wheat, owing to 
the three-sided, angular shape of the seeds. The 
meal is used much as are the cereal flours. 
Bice. although suitable only for the making of small 
batter-cakes, owing to deficiency in gluten. In Russia the seeds 
are used in the form of groats, particularly by the soldiery, and 
are cooked with butter or oil. The flour of buckwheat compares 
unfavorably with that of wheat in point of nutrition. 

Rice, the origin of which is variously ascribed to India and 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 159 

to China, has been for thousands of years one of the most widely 
used cereals of the world. It is not alluded to in the Bible and was 
anciently unknown to the Greeks, Eomans and probably to the in- 
habitants of the Holy Land. But for thousands of years the chief 
nations of the Orient have partially subsisted upon it, from the 
divine Buddha who begged it from house to house after the custom 
of the hermits of ancient India, to the poorest of his brothers. It 
was ^thrown to the blue and purple fish of the lotus-pools, and, 
"boiled with sandal and fine spice," was laid upon sacrificial altars. 
In China, more than four thousand years ago, was established a cus- 
tom according to which, once in every year, the Emperor sows the 
seeds of rice with his own hands. China, Japan, India, Java, Siam 
and Ceylon to-day regard rice as their staple food. 

In appearance the rice grain resembles barley, and the plant 
itself, the other cereals and grasses to which it is allied. The grains 
possess each separate pedicles springing from a branching main 
stalk. Each is enclosed in a rough, yellow husk which, in the 
bearded varieties, terminates in an awn. There are numerous 
species, Japan alone claiming more than one hundred, although 
they may be classified simply aslarina rice, composed almost wholly 
of starch, and a second variety containing a larger proportion of 
gluten. Chemically, rice contains far less gluten than wheat, oats, 
barley or maize and therefore ranks much below these cereals, 
nutritively. Professor Atwater states that a rice-fed people are 
invariably weak physically, and it has been demonstrated by others 
that they lack invention and enterprise, a condition certainly true 
of the poorer classes among the Orientals. To counteract the f ault- 
iness of a diet composed of so much starch and so little protein, 
rice is usually combined in cooking with fat, salt and curry, and 
those of the Orientals who can procure other food consume large 
quantities of fish and poultry. 

The cultivation of rice in America is of recent origin. In 
1761, in a treatise written upon the British plantations of America, 
it was recorded that the first seed rice which found its way into 
America was left by the officers of a brigantine from Madagascar, 
which happened to put into port along the Carolina coast. The rice 
was given to a gentleman named Woodward, who began the cultiva- 
tion of it. A little later a Mr. Dubois of the East Indian Company 
sent to the colonies a small bag of seed rice. It is believed that 
from these two sources came, our twp varieties of Carolina rice, the 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



white and the red. This classiflcation is due to the color of the 
inner husk, the grains of both varieties being similar when cleaned. 
But, however it came to the "rice-swamp, dank and lone" of the 
Carolinas, the lowlands, periodically flooded by tides and rivers, 
were well adapted by nature to its growing. From its revenues the 
states of North and South Ct:.ji>lina, 
Georgia, and Louisiana have become 
greatly enriched. 

It is fortunate for the people of rice- 
growing states that this cereal was not 
introduced until an abundant and varied 
diet had already been established. Even 
in case of total failure of the rice crop, 
there could be no danger of famine 
owing to the abundance of other foods, 
while in those countries in which it 
forms the main dependence of the poorer 
classes, failure of the crop 
means the gravest famine and 
destitution. As said Eicardo, 
one of the earliest of political 
economists, "When the labor- 
ing classes have fewest wants 
and are contented with the 
cheapest food, the people are 
exposed to the greatest vicissi- 
tudes and miseries. They have 
no refuge from calamity. On 
any deficiency of the chief 
article of subsistence, there 
are few substitutes of which 
they can avail themselves, and 
dearth is attended on all sides 
Javanese Elce Cooker. ^^ famine." 

No people cook rice so deliciously as the nations of the Orient. 
At the Columbian Exposition the Javanese not only brought their 
own rice, which they think superior to any other, but their own 
cooking utensils. They customarily prepare it by steaming, the rice 
being placed in a conical basket^ of k)osely woven twigs, the basket 
being placed over a tall brass vessel half filled with water. Placed 




FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 161 

over the Are, the steam from the heated water penetrates every por- 
tion of the basket and its contents, and a fragrant, snowy dish, each 
grain separate and dry, is the result. It is commonly eaten with 
curry or chilies and a meat gravy of some kind. The largest exhibit 
of rice was made by the Japanese. Each preparation was accom- 
panied ' -^ its analysis, made at the Agricultural College at Tokio. 
Several of the most unique merit description. Shir-a-ta-ma is made 
from the glutinous varieties, which are first steeped in water, then 
ground and washed through fine sieves. The residue obtained is 
dried over a coal fire, then made into small, round balls of dough 
which, when steamed, are eaten both with soups and with sweets. 
Ame^reTpaied from malt and the flour of glutinous rice, greatly re- 
sembles glucose. It is a delicious sweet-ineat. Its making dates 
from one hundred years, B. C, when sugar was unknown. Do-rtw-ji is 
rice steamed, dried and then ground into flour. It may be prepared 
for use whenever wanted by the addition of water and is eaten with 
sugar. It is specially valuable to travelers and to an army on long 
marches. Kori-mochi is made from steamed rice, beaten into a 
paste and then frozen. Water is poured upon it to soften it, and it 
is served with sugar. It was quite surprising to the American to ob- 
serve the varied and dainty preparations of so homely an article as 
simple rice. Like our own cereals, it is fer mente d by the Japanese 
and distilled into a liquor called sake, which is highly intoxicating. 



CHAPTER XIX. 



BBEAD, MACARONI AND PASTES. 




If HE bread of the modern world is an evolution; its 
making, the result of centuries of experiment, begin- 
ning with the crudest of materials and most primitive 
of methods, and ending with the modern bakery of 
automatic, thousand-loaf capacity. The "raised" or 
light loaf of to-day was unknown to the ancients, 
theirs being an unleavened bread or cake. The 
Egyptians, long before the Christian era, made a loaf 
of wheat and meal; in what proportions history does not state. The 
jarly Britons made cakes of crushed acorns long before cereals 
were grown upon their island. The bread of the ancient Syrians 
was made from mulberries, dried and ground to flour. 

But the Greeks were the best bread-makers of antiquity, as be- 
came a race whose tables were considered to be sumptuously laden 
when containing plain meat, "roasted on a spit and dusted with 
flour," wheaten bread, and wine. Both barley and wheat were used, 
ground in small hand mills by the women slaves of each household, 
and made into a well-salted, unleavened dough. Plato's ideal of 
barley-pudding and bread, the sole food of the dwellers of the 
Republic, was well nigh realized in his own Greece, for bread was as 
indispensable a food among the aristocrats as among the poor and 
it was publicly vended in all markets. 

By the citizens of the Roman republic bread was universally 
used in all households, partly owing to the fact that machinery for 
grinding the wheat had superseded the primitive hand-mill. All 
classes, patrician, plebeian and slave, could be supplied with this art- 
icle from governmental bakeries. When the Romans first visited the 
islands of Great Britain they found the Scotch in both the highlands 
and lowlands making oaten cakes which they baked upon flat stones, 

12 



164 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



heated in front of the Are. To these stones the Romans gave the 
name of grerdiol, from which our word^lgriddle" is evidently derived. 
It was written, "when the soldier hath eaten meat so long that he 
begins to loath it, he casteth the stone (which he always carried 
with him in his wallet of meal) into the fire; he moisteneth the meal 
with water and when the plate is heated he layeth the paste thereon 
and maketh a little cake; the which he eateth to comfort his 
stomach.'' In later days, Bobbie Burns pronounced "the oat 
cake, kneaded out with the knuckles and toasted over real embers 
of wood, on a gridiron," to be remarkably fine eating. The Scots 
did not know the wheaten loaf until the end of the sixteenth 
century, cakes or "bannocks" of oat, barley and peas meal consti- 
tuting their house- 
hold bread. 

In Wales the peo- 
ple of those times 
used a baking utensil 
similar to the Scotch 
griddle and known as 
the bake-stone. Their 
bread was close and 
heavy, resembling in 
shape, extent and 
thickness, a small cart 
wheel. 

Oaths were form- 
erly sworn by bread, 
possibly because i t 
Apache Grain Mortars. symbolized the neces- 

sities of life. Says Rich, in describing the customs of old Ireland: 
"I will trust him better that oflereth to swear by bread and salt 
than him that offereth to swear by the Bible." 

England was indebted to the Romans for the first knowledge of 
the art of making wheaten flour into a loaf. For centuries this was 
a wholly domestic occupation, and even as late as 1804 the city of 
Manchester did not contain a single public bakery. Until the last 
two or three centuries there was lack of the best material for bread- 
making. Wheaten bread was a luxury to be enjoyed by the rich, 
only, and, in a book published in 1576, it is stated that the poor of 
that time contented themselves with rye and barley' bread, with 




FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 165 

bread of peas, beans or oats, and sometimes with that made from all 
these ingredients, to which were added acorns; food more nutritious, 
probably, than palatable. 

Bread of some sort and savor is a universal food among even 
the primitive nations of to-day. The North American Indian com- 
bines berries, pemican, and the bark of certain trees into a cake or 
loaf. The Bedouin woman makes from finely crushed grains and 
water a dough, which is manipulated before baking untU the thin- 
ness of a wafer. It is then baked upon the concave surface of a 
shallow iron pan which is turned, face down, over the smoky fire. 
The result is a very tasty bit of toast, not quite relishable because 
of a lack of salt. Tortilla, a cake made from, corn and baked in the 
ashesjjs still the natfon al bread of the Mexican. In Sweden, Nor- 
way, Lapland, and Iceland there is made a nutritious loaf from 
crushed grains and flour of fish, dried and then finely ground. In 
times of distress the Irish and Icelanders, as well as the Russians, 
have utilized a species of nutritious moss which makes not an infe- 
rior nor unpalatable food. The natives of South America, Jamaica, 
and British Guiana have long made a bread from the dried and 
ground root of the cassava or tapioca plant. It is known as cassava 
bread and is very nutritious. Several countries exhibited this at 
tEeTJblumbian Exposition. 

But the bread of modern America and much of Europe is pri- 
marily wheaten. This is as it should be for wheat contains a larger 
proportion of protein, the purely nourishing element, than any 
of the other cereals. Other constituents are starch and dextrine 
(carbohydrates), fatty matter, and important mineral substances, 
such as the phosphates of lime and soda, salts of potash and silica. 

The following table by Payen compares the nutritive value of our 
principal cereals: 

COMPOSITION OF VAEIODS DRIED CEREALS. 



Hard Wheat. 


Soft Wheat. 


Oats. 


Maize. 


Eice. 


Barley. 


Eye. 


Protein... 22.75 


12.65 


14.39 


12,50 


7.55 


12.96 


12.50 


Starch.... 58.62 


76.51 


60.59 


67.55 


88.65 


66.43 


64.65 


Dextrine.. 9.50 


6.05 


9.25 


4.00 


1.00 


10.00 


14.90 


Cellulose.. 3.50 


2.80 


7.06 


5.90 


1.10 


4.75 


3.10 


Fats 2.61 


1.87 


5.50 


8.80 


0.80 


2.76 


2.25 


Salts 3.02 


2.12 


3.25 


1.25 


0.90 


3.10 


2.60 



l5o.OO 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 



166 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



The protein or nitrogenous matter of wheat is known as gluten 
and upon this its commercial value is based. If you visit the Chi- 
cago Board of Trade you will see there men testing flour. They 
do this by mixing with it a suflQcient quantity of water to form a 
stiff dough, their mixing pan being usually the palm of the left 
hand while the mixing is done with a finger of the right. They first 
puU the dough, to "test its strength," they will teU you, and then 
break it forcibly into two parts. If it is tough, tenacious and 
leathery it contains a high per cent of gluten and is therefore ex- 
cellent, nutritious and "strong." If it is soft, non-elastic and breaks 
apart with a short fracture it is starchy and non-glutinous, prob- 
ably from soft wheat, or because the gluten has been taken from it 
during the process of milling. 

But the selection of a hard or glutinous wheat is not the only 
requisite for a nutritious quality of flour, for the modern miller 

produces many sorts of 
flour from the starchiest of 
grains and many more sorts 
from the most glutinous. 
The miller of ancient days 
crushed and ground the ce- 
reals in little hand mills, or 
grinding mortars. The pro- 
duct was given to the con- 
sumer filched of none of its 
strength-giving elements. 
To-day, milling is a compli- 
cated industry; and the honest little grain, crushed and divided, 
hurried through spout-like conveyors and over rollers, elevated, 
purified, sifted, and bolted to astonishing fineness, is resolved at the 
end of its astonishing journey into many grades of fiour. Four dif- 
ferent grades are made in all mills — often more — first and second 
patent, and first and second baker's. The reasons forTEis division 
are, that consumers in general demand a white fiour; that one quality 
is superior for bread, quite another for pastry; and that by this sep- 
aration and division there is greater profit to the producer. Flour 
for the best bread making should contain a large quantity of gluten, 
a condition easily ascertained by its creamy tint and by testing the 
tenacil^ of the dough. That for pastry should be starchy, as little 
tenacious as possible and thus of course less nutritious. A glutin- 




Bedonln MQl-stones. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOULD. 167 

ous flour will invariably make tough cake and pie-crust. The first 
patent contains more gluten than the second, and both confain 
more than the first and second baker's. 

To the bread maker of the present age yeast seems to be as in- 
dispensable as flour, and it is hard to believe that such has not 
always been the case. PUny teUs us that the Gauls leavened their 
bread with a yeast made from the lye of beer, although the use of 
this ferment was early abandoned and not revived until the seven- 
teenth century. When the bakers of France re-established its use 
physicians universally denounced it as deleterious to health and in 
1666 it was finally prohibited by law. The bakers waged such in- 
cessant war against the decree that it was at length repealed, with 
the proviso, however, that only beer freshly made in Paris or 
vicinity should be used. Since then the use of yea^t has spread 
over all lands in which wheaten bread is made. 

Yeast, scientists have determined, is a plant, a microscopic 
fungus, with capacity for marvelous growth if nourished amid favor- 
able surroundings. It deserves the same consideration as the 
geranium in your window. Warmth, moisture and nourishment are 
as necessary to its growth as to that of your plant. Hot water will 
Mil it, a low temperature will arrest its development.' Just as your 
plant can be forced so rapidly as to injure or kill it, so can the 
yeast pla'nt. The nourishment to be supplied is flour, upon which 
it develops by multiplying its own cellular growth with marvelous 
rapidity. Carbonic acid gas is developed, the mixture "rises," and a 
so-called lively sponge is the result. It is essential that yeast be 
fresh to produce rapid alcoholic fermentation. The best known is 
c^mpressed_jeast, obtained from the distillation of rye7~It consists 
of the scum, drained upon cloths and pressed into cakes, the action 
of which, when fresh, is rapid and uniformly satisfactory. The 
action of all yeast is somewhat quickened by the addition of a 
spoonful of sugar. Too high a temperature induces the develop- 
ment of an acid ferment in yeast, a temp erature toqj gw retards its 
action and causes sour breads Yeast best develops at 70° to 80° P. 

Now when to water and flour, in proper proportions, is added 
yeast, the latter, if maintained at the proper temperature, feeds 
upon the flour and begins to rapidly multiply its cells. The gluten 
of the flour, becoming hydrated, i. e., well mixed with water, causes 
the dough to become tenacious and elastic; carbonic acid gas is de- 
veloped by the action of the yeast and endeavors to escape. But, 




168 FOOD PEODDCTS OF THE WORLD. 

entangled in the glutinous fibres of the dough, the gas is held. 
Heat causes it to still further expand and the sponge "rises." That 
is the philosophy of the process, in which, if allowed to continue too 
long, the yeast plant ceases its rapid development, owing to the ex- 
haustion of its food supply, the elasticity departs, and the sponge 
"falls." That means failure. So at the critical point the housewife 
or baker adds a quantity of flour to the sponge, making a dough, and 
the kneading process is begun. This has a two-fold object: to in- 
sure uniform distribution of the gas and to develop the gluten of 
the flour. It requires two kneadings, each usually from twenty to 
thirty minutes in length. The uncouth old Bedouin woman of the 
Midway Plaisance furnished a daily object lesson to hundreds of 
visitors on the possibilities of the development of gluten by kneading. 
By rapid and deft manipulation she con- 
' verted a small piece of unleavened dough 
into a flat, tenacious and immense wafer, 
round as a pie tin and twenty inches in 
diameter. The housekeeper uses her 
hands in the kneading process and the 
A Bedouin Oven. baker, machinery. The result is the 

same in both cases. 

The next essential to good bread is prolonged baking at not too 
high a temperature. This is to assist the transformation of the 
starch, of which the bread is so largely composed, into dextrine, 
which must occur to all starchy foods either within or without the 
body before they can be assimilated. Heat is one agent for this 
conversion without the body. The brown crust on a loaf is almost 
pure dextrine, of which a good example is the crust of Vienna 
bread, nutty, fragrant and sweet, by all odds the most delicious part 
of the loaf and by far the most easily digested. This may explain 
why toast and crust coffee are such appropriate invalid dishes. If 
the bread has been well baked there is incipient conversion of 
the starch throughout the entire loaf. 

In the making of leavened bread, water and flour are first mixed 
into a thin sponge and allowed to stand until fermentation sets in. 
A portion of this leaven is then added to new dough, the slight acidity 
being corrected by the use of carbonate of soda, a substitute for 
the wood ashes of former days. A delicious loaf is the result. 
Parts of the leavened dough are always saved to be used as leaven 
for the next baking. A treatise written long before yeast was 



FOOD PKODTJCTS OF THE WOELD. 169 

known to the bread-making -world runs as follows: "It must be well 
leavened, for without leaven it is good for no man; it ought to be 
light, for thereby the clamminess is gone; it ought to be well-baked, 
otherwise it is indigestible; it must be temperately salted for bread 
over sweet is a stopper and bread over salt is a drier; finally, this 
ideal bread should be made of wheat, hard, thick, heavy, yellow, 
light, full ripe, clean, and grown in a fat soil." 

Salt rising bread is leavened by means of a ferment developed 
from salt, flour and water, combined. If these ingredients are 
left in a warm temperature for a few hours a gas is formed, 
resulting from the chemical reaction between the flour, water and 
salt. By the addition of more flour it is made into a dough, kneaded, 
and allowed to rise a second time, after which it is baked. If fer- 
mentation be not checked at just the proper time a highly offensive 
odor will result, hence the great care necessary in using this kind of 
ferment. One author denounces it as bread in the highest stage of 
putrefaction and wholly unfit to eat. 

Aerated bread is lightened by carbonic acid gas which is forced 
through the dough by means of machinery. The process is the in- 
vention of a Dr. Danglish of Edinburg. The bread is light and 
sweet, though without the agreeable fla,vor of the best yeast bread, 
and is very popular in England. All fermentation, with its possible 
evils, is avoided and, as bread can be made by this process in one 
haul and a half (not including the time consumed in baking), it is 
much to be commended. For some reason it has not become popu- 
lar in America excepting, to a limited extent, in the East. 

Germ bread is another variety of local fame and which, consist- 
ing ai it does of the germ or embryo of the wheat grain, is very 
nutritious. The germ is separated from the kernel in all mills be- 
cause it not only darkens the flour, if ground, but affects the flavor. 
It is more commonly knownas a Ti'reakf ast f ood, under the names of 
germina, semolina, wheatena and others. 

In the eastern states a most famous food is "Boston brown 
bread," made from rye, corn meal, and graham flour, well sweetened 
and usually served smoking hot. It is nutritious, not quite as 
digestible as wheaten bread, but the accoro^nimeht,' always and 
ever, of baked beans. 

Fifty years ago Rev. Sylvester Graham of Boston waged moral 
war against the ordinary wheat bread of the bakeries, doubtless 
with good reason, for at that time the nutritive value of flour was 



110 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOULD. 

pretty generally considered of secondary importance to its white- 
ness. He advocated the grinding of the whole wheat kernel and _. 
"Graham bread]^as the result. His idea was excellent but he was 
not enough of a scientist to carry it to perfection, and it is certainly 
true that neither himself nor his followers brought glory to his 
cause by reason of superior health or great longevity. It is, on the 
other hand, also true that many a person has been made dys- 
peptic by its constant .jisOj^ and for the following reason: In his 
effort to retain all the nourishing qualities of the little brown kernel 
Mr. Graham retained the tough, outer layers of the wheat grain which 
are not only innutritions but wholly indigestible. CheihicaUy, they 
are soluble only in strong solutions of acid and alkali, while the 
acid and alkaline secretions of the human system, the saliva, gastric 
juice and biliary fluid are very weak, only sufficient, in fact, to 
digest or make soluble the pure starches. These tough coatings or 
"bran" therefore act only as irritants upon the tender mucous 
surfaces of the digestive tract, and cause a large proportion of the 
food to be simply hurried through the system before assimilation 
can take place, thus promoting waste of nutritive material. This 
has been proven but recently by the experiments of Atwater in 
America and Voit in Germany. Says one authority, "The ardent 
dietetic morality which extolled the bread that was coarsest, brown- 
est, stalest and most truly home made, and caused fine, white bread 
to be swallowed as if it were a sin against nature is classed among 
the 'isms' of forty years ago." However, I by no means advocate 
the abolition of graham flour, although it should be well sifted be- 
fore being used. ' 

Flour is, generally speaking, one of our purest foods, although 
it has at times been adulterated with such articles as peas, beans 
or peanuts, dried and pulverized. These are whoUy healthful and 
more nourishing than the whitest grades of flour, although, if such 
adulterations are introduced into wheaten flour the consumer 
should not be deceived. In old Pompeii, as exploration has proven, 
it was not unusual to make loaves entirely of pea flour. Alum has 
been frequently used in minute quantities to produce whiten^s, 
though just why it has that effect, says WUliams, is stilFa chemicaT 
puzzle. 

Much has been written pro and con the price of bread at the 
present time. It is certainly unfair to the tenement house popula- 
tion of our great cities, which depends largely upon baker's bread, 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 171 

to charge as much for a loaf with wheat at less than fifty cents a 
bushel as was paid when it cost a dollar and a quarter. A barrel of 
flour produces, it has been estimated, three hundred loaves of bread 
and the baker expects to make a clear profit of twelve or fourteen 
dollars from every barrel he makes up, even at the former high 
price. A pound of flour absorbs half that quantity of water. It is 
therefore easy to see that a loaf weighing a pound is sold at a good 
profit even if the best quality of flour is used, which is rarely the 
case among bakers. 

A miller from Glasgow, Scotland, while in Chicago, recently, 
gave some interesting items in regard to the baker's bread of his 
own land. The flour used in the Scotch bakeries is principally 
American, although some is imported from Hungary. Certain of the 
bakeries use three thousand sacks a week, each sack weighing two 
hundred and eighty pounds. The weight of the bread is regulated 
by law. The loaf is large and square, known as the quartern loaf, 
and must weigh ^ur^ pounds _twenty-four hours after it is baked. 
The family baker gets five pence (ten cents) for the quartern loaf 
and half that price for the smaller loaf of two pounds. It is baked 
on the bare floor of the oven. The yeast used is that prepared by 
the bakers themselves from malt. One wonders how the Scotch 
people can import American flour and then sell their bread at the 
above rate, whUe in America, with wheat so low in price at present 
that it is used for fattening stock, we pay five cents for a loaf made 

in many cases from inferior flour 
and often weighing less than a 
pound. The fact that the Scotch 
bakers do not take back unsold 
bread, and that wages are lower 
-abroad, are not satisfactory rea- 
sons for this difference in price. 
The wealthy and well-to-do classes 
Mexican Grlndlns Stone. bake their own bread. It is the 

people with little ready money, no knowledge of foods or their proper 
selection, who depend upon the frequently innutritions bread of 
the bakeries. With the possibility of furnishing a good bowl of 
soup for a penny, at little if any proflt but certainly at no loss, a 
cheaper loaf of bread is not a distant probability. 

What bread is to the American macaroni is to the Italian, an 
universal and nourishing food. Macaroni, as we know it, might be 




172 FOOD PilODUCTS OP THE WORLD. 

defined as a hollow tube of paste which in American kitchens is all 
too frequently spoiled in cooking. But originally it consisted of 
lumps of flour paste and cheese, compressed into little balls. The 
Italian name, "maccheroni^]jJs derived from "macM,rej'' to crush; 
vermicelli is, as the name indicates, wornjJike in shape while 
spaghetti means a cord. These three varieties are the best known 
of Ttalian pastes, although there are fancy pastes, large and small, 
whose number is legion. 

It is not known in what land or by what people this paste was 
originally made, although it was manufactured in China at a remote 
date. It is believed that the Germans obtained their knowledge 
from the Chinese, they, in turn, imparting it to "the Italians, who 
have come to consider it, through centuries of usage, their one in- 
dispensable food. 

On the other hand, the Japanese claim priority in the making 
of this paste, having used it for many hundreds^oT years. We first 
know of its use in Italy in the fourteenth century, and the secret of 
its manufacture and preparation was confined to that country by 
its jealous cooks for nearly a hundred years. It was then intro- 
duced into France and we hear of Louis XIII. ordering it from 
an innkeeper of Tours, who had established a great reputation for 
its preparation. From that time its use became general throughout 
all the Latin countries. 

The favorite dish of Lord Byron, even in the land of the boar's 
head and sirloin, was macaroni, served with truffles.^ 

At one time the composer Rossini was invited to dine with 
Prince Napoleon, in company with Dumas fils and Dor6. Rossini 
was the guest of the hour and in his honor macaroni was served, a, 
dish of which he was excessively fond. Not long after, Costa, a con- 
ductor of the Covent Garden opera, wished Rossini's opinion of an 
oratorio of his own composing and, to win the great musician's 
favor, sent with it a box of macaroni. Days and weeks passed with- 
out acknowledgement. At the end of a month Costa received this 
note, "My dear Costa: Thanks for the oratorio and the macaroni. 
The latter was excellent. G. Rossini." 

For many years it has been claimed that no country could pro- 
duce' so excellent a macaroni as Italy, a circumstance long believed 
to be due to the species of wheat grown there. It is of the 
hard variety, having a horny grain and containing a large amount 
of gluten. However, the hard, flinty wheats of Algeria, of Tangarok, 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 17. 

Russia, of Argfentine Republic, of the United States, particularly of 
the Dakotas, are as rich in the element_needecl for the making of 
macaroni, i. e., gluten, as the best varieties of the Italian farms. 

The raw material used in making these pastes is a coarsely 
ground flour, called "semoula" or "farinola," which is chiefly gluti- 
nous, most of the starch having been eliminated. Macaroni cannot 
be successfully manufactured from a starchy flour because, in cook- 
ing, the starch granules so expand as to cause thie pipes of macaroni 
to break or else to become pasty and cohesive. 

Let us follow the process of making as it is conducted in the 
large manufactories of the United States, the material being flour 
from the excellent, hard wheat of Dakota. One hundred pounds of 
this glutinous flour is placed in a wooden box with a small quantity 
of warm water, seemingly quite insufficient to moisten it. The mix- 
ing is done by machinery and when that process is completed the 
dough has much the appearance as well as the tenacity of India 
rubber. It is then kneaded for some time under a three-ton press- 
ure that all the tenacious possibilities of the gluten may be devel- 
oped. The dough, cut in pieces, is placed into cylinders about two 
feet in depth by nine or ten inches in diameter, and which are 
warmed by a jacket of steam. A pressure of one thousand pounds 
to the square inch is then applied by means of slowly revolving 
screws and the mass of dough is forced through tiny cylindrical 
holes at the bottom of the cylinder. Owing to the stiffness of the 
dough this process is lengthy, occupjdng about an hour. At the 
core or center of each of the holes with which the copper plates 
at the bottom of the large cylinders are pierced is a steel pin. This 
it is that renders macaroni tubular in form; and through these 
holes the macaroni pipes slowly emerge until the dough in the cyl- 
inder is exhausted. The macaroni pipes are cut into the required 
lengths by boys and girls who sort them, laying aside all imperfect 
pieces, and place them on long frames to dry. These frames are 
wooden, latticed with twine, upon which is laid heavy manilla paper. ; 
Upon this the macaroni is placed, the heat from the cylinder having 
so dried it that there is no danger of its adhesion to the paper. The 
handling of the long, tenacious, undried tubes, the cutting into ex- 
act lengths and the carefui' assorting are important details of the 
work which, if carefully attended to, greatly diminish waste and 
facilitate the final packing. The drying requires a few days' time 
during which the greatest care must be observed. The rooms are 



m POOD PEODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

large and perfectly ventilated. After the frames of macaroni are 
placed, tier above tier, the temperature is carefully watched that it 
may not vary, and all draughts are excluded. Too moist a tempera- 
ture causes the paste to sour or mildew, too much heat injures it 
by quick drying; let a draught of air enter and the macaroni cracks. 
No infant is ever more carefully attended to than is this product 
by the successful manufacturer. 

When thoroughly dried the pieces are weighed, rolled into 
pound packages and labeled. In one of our largest American fac- 
tories I watched this process, standing at the long tables by the side 
of the deft-fingered girls. Only a small proportion of the daUy out- 
put was marked in English letters. The greater_£roportion, by far, 
sported_It^g,n labels, purporting to come from Naples, and a 
quantity likewise was splendidly labeled in.Prench. Thte is due, as 
I was told, to the great prejudice existing in this country in favor 
of the far-famed Italian pastes. 

Vermicelli, spaghetti, and all the fancy pastes are made from 
the same dough and, excepting the final shaping, pass through the 
identical process. There is a ribbon macaroni, wide and with fluted 
edge, a fluted pipe known as "celery macaroni," as well as number- 
less tiny pastes of fancy shapes, alphabetical, seed, ring, and star 
shapes, which are a pretty addition to clear soups. The larger 
fancy shapes are, however, diflBlcult to cook and serve unUfoken, as 
weU as quite puzzling, at times, to the uninitiated eater o&them. 
There is also a variety known as the German noodle. It is colored 
yellow with saflEron, giving it a flavor much liked by certain classes, 
and imitating the color of the original German noodle which is 
always made with eggs. It is the tagliarini or lasagnette of the 
Italians. 

There are several grades of macaroni upon the markets, the 
cheaper containing a large proportion of starch, a condition at once 
determined by cooking. The best are made from the same sort of 
flour used in making the best bread, with, however, part of the 
starch eliminated; hence the higher price. The foreign^ macaroni^ 
are sometimes cheapenedjby adulteration with wheaten flour and that 
of corn, beans.and peas, articles which, as they do not c£ange the ap- 
pearance nor detract from the weight of the paste, are rarely de- 
tected until the only infallible test is made, that of cooking. The 
cooking of macaroni is not often successfully accomplished by the 
unskilful, for the delicate tubes should come to the table whole. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



175 




separate, and without any pastiness. The best may be injured by 
soaMiig, by being washed carelessly, or by being put into cold water 
to cook. Macaroni should be plunged into boiling water, — plenty of 
water, — to which there has been added salt. Continue the boiling 
until the macaroni is tender, from twenty to thirty minutes, when 
the tubes should have become double their original size. Drain the 
macaroni and plunge it into cold water f or a moment, to prevent 
breaking and cohesion, and it is then 
' ready to be dressed for the table. It is 
C'T \2~1./^C2»7^ ~G^|kA ^^ ideal dish when properly prepared, 
^/f^!^!!\^^^l^ ^ simple, delicious, nourishing, and cheap. 
It may be dressed with butter and cream, 
with Parmesan cheese, although American cheese 
^ ^^. ^ is suitable; with tomatoes or with meat gravies; 

X^ /^ it may take the place of rice or barley in 
sjX v*^^-^ a soup, and is delicious if scalloped with oysters 
^=^ or bits of cooked meat. It is to be regretted that 
macaroni does not enter more largely into the 
dietary of the working classes in America, not 
less because of its cheapness and the ease with 
^_ which it may be prepared than because of its 

-~^\ ^^^ti^ nourishing qualities. 

>»^»^^^y No food product at the Columbian Exposi- 

^y\\} O tion created more discussion among the judges, 
none elicited more careful comparison, none re- 
ceived more accurate tests than did the macaroni 
and pastes. This was partially owing to the gen- 
eral apprehension that no good pastes were pro- 
duced outside of Italy and France, and partially 
to the fact that the American macaroni seemed 
to be equally as good as the IlaJian. This, after tests and analyses, 
was found to be the case, and I am convinced that our best maca- 
roni compares favorably with the best Italian. Chemical analysis 
has long since proven that our hard wheats are as valuable in its 
manufacture as the best of those grown by the Mediterranean. Our 
manufacturers are, with scarcely an exception. Frenchmen or 
Italians, whofSllowed the same business when abroad. One, who 
has been a maker of pastes for nearly a quarter of a century, as- 
sured me that the only points of difference between the manufact- 
uring of macaroni here and abroad lay in the method of drying. In 




176 FOOD PKODCCTS OF THE WORLD. 

Italy, owing to the mildness of the climate, all pastes are dried out 
of doors lathe sunshine, a process which somewhat bleaches them so 
that the French, Spanish and Italian products are whiter than the 
American. But the American pastes have the advantage of a pro- 
cess much more cleanly, for dust from streets and highways has 
easy access to the foreign pastes, a fact of much account to the con- 
sumers in this age, with all humanity at war against microbes. In 
Italy the mixing of the dough is accomplished by hand excepting in 
a few of the largest manufactories, and nearly the entire amount of 
macaroni produced in that country is consumed at home. The bulk 
of the imported article, which we know, comes from France. The"" 
best quality of American macaroni is in every way equal to the best 
of the foreign products, and it is much- to be regretted that cheaper 
qualities are manufactured. It is undoubtedly done to satisfy the 
demands of the poorer classes of foreigners living here, who prefer 
it to almost any other food. As yet it is not largely used among the 
American born population, although to be invariably found in the 
best restaurants and hotels. 

The largest exhibit of pastes at the Columbian Exposition was 
made by Italy. Macaroni in most wonderful shapes, vermicelli, 
spaghetti, fancir pastes of all descriptions, placed the exhibit ahead 
of all others ih. point of completeness. A large quantity was also 
sent from Spain. 

Costa Rica presented a great variety of pastes, not, however, of 
specially excellent quality. Their bright yellow color w as produced 
by s^ron^ owing probabTy to the impression that the dye is a pro- 
tection from weevils, the pests of tropical countries. 

The quality of the pastes from Jamaica and those from Mexico 
was not of the best. They were in the form of vermicelli and, from 
having been dried on hot plates, consisted of a network of worm- 
like threads, closely massed. 

The pastes from Russia, as well as from the Argentine Republic, 
in both o£ which countries excellent, hard wheat is produced, were 
of superior quality although unattractive appearance. 

The principality of Monaco exhibited very excellent pastes, 
equal to the best from any country, most of which were put up in 
fancy shapes. 

Japan made a large exhibit of vermicelli, unlike any other 
pastes in taste as well as appearance. The dough had Taeen saKed"" 
in the process of mixing, disproving the European theory that salt- 



FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 177 

ing the dough ruins it. The Japanese spin the dough into threads 
of astonishing fineness, the entire process being accomplished by 
hand. The threads which, owing to the extreme tenacity of the 
dough, are of great length, are hung over bamboo sticks to dry, 
after which they are cut into lengths of six, eight or ten inches. 
These are tied into bundles about an inch in diameter and are then 
packed, ready for sale or export, in boxes holding one dozen bundles 
each. Unlike the other pastes, this vermicelli is peculiarly flexible 
and the tiny bundles are almost as pliable as a bundle of coarse 
bristles. If eaten, uncooked, it does not remain hard, but is readily 
soluble. When cooked each thread expands, retaining its shape 
perfectly. 

At a dinner given to the judges one summer day at the Japanese 
Tea House, one course consisted of vermicelli. It had been 
cooked, by boiling, in unbroken lengths of about eight inches. 
These, on being served, were dropped into glasses half filled with 
cracked ice. Accompanying each glass was a tiny bowl of soy, that 
distinctively Japanese sauce. We were allowed to choose either 
forks or chop-sticks with which to eat, a process which involved 
winding a few threads of the glutinous paste upon the fork, dipping 
Ihem into the soy and conveying them to the mouth. It was quite 
as diflicult as carrying an armful of eels, and scarcely more suc- 
cessfully done. In swallowing the paste, the long threads, cold as 
ice, appeared to slowly unwind as they traveled adown the throat, 
and were quite suggestive of frozen angle worms. However, the 
paste is notably superior both in nutrition and flavor. 

Only three American firm.s exhibited at the exposition, although 
it is claimed that New York alone has thirty. AU these houses 
presented extensive and creditable exhibits, the capacity of each 
averaging, it is estimated, flve or six thousand pounds each day. 
About thirty million pounds is each year manufactured in America, 
consuming five million bushels of our best wheat. 



CHAPTER XX. 



EDIBLE FUNGI. 



N MANY respects the edible fungi comprise the most 
singular and interesting class of substances to be found in 
the entire range of food products. Their growth is always 
nocturnal, they are the most delicate and perishable of all 
vegetables, they assimilate materials and thrive amid sur- 
roundings that would be absolutely fatal to almost any 
other species of vegetation. In flavor as well as nutritively 
they closely approximate animal foods while, if Jcept until 
decomposition sets in, their odor is similar to that ol decayed meat. 
They belong, nevertheless, to the vegetable kingdom, and one 
wonders that naturalists were for so many years undecided upon 
that point. The writer of a quaint little English book, published by 
Charles Knight of London in 1832 and entitled "Substances of 
Pood," says: "Some refer them to the animal, some to the vege- 
table, others to the mineral world, while one naturalist has asserted 
that these fungi ought to be excluded from all these divisions and 
considered as intermediate beings." This scientific indecision ap- 
pears the more singular when one recalls the fact that mushrooms 
have been used as food since the early days of Greece and Rome. 
They are frequently mentioned by Pliny as well as by Galen, the ac- 
complished old physician of Pergamus. 

The greatest difference between edible fungi and vegetables is 
to be found in the amount of nitrogenous matter or protein con- 
tained. Nutritively they rank higher than the cereals, legumes, or 
even lean beef. The following table (adapted from a&alyses made 

IS 



180 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

by both Dr. Letheby and Payen) indicates the comparative vaiue of 
our principal foods, including fungi, from a strictly strength-giving 
standpoint: 

Per Cent ol Nitrogenous Matter. Per Cent of Nitrogenous Matter. 

Ijean beef 27.60 Beans 25.50 

Lean mutton 18.30 Potatoes 2.50 

Veal 16.50 Parsnips 1.10 

Calf's liver 20.10 Mushrooms (dried) 52.00 

Dried bacon 8.80 Morels " ilOO 

Hard wheat • 22.75 White truffles " 36.00 

Eice 7.55 Black truffles " 31.00 

Discussion has long been rife as to the digestibility of the edible 
varieties of fungi, reminding one of the complaints often lodged 
against cheese as well as occasional other articles rich in proteids. 
The fact is, complaints of indigestibility are 
> heard only among certain classes of people who 
understand nothing of the chemical properties 
of mushrooms and who usually combine them 
with other foods in wholly unscientific- pro- 
portions. Now the system does not demand, 
neither can it assimilate, more than a certain 
amount of nitrogenous food; and for that rea- 
^•Z""" son mushrooms should be eaten, not as a lux- 
Conunon Musliroom. urious accompaniment to the more nutritious 
foods, such as meats, but in the place of them. In America mush- 
rooms are an expensive luxury, whether home-grown or imported, 
and are used only by the well-to-do classes. There is no necessity 
for economy and consequently, at hotels and restaurants even more 
than in private houses, we see such dishes as beef steak smothered 
in mushrooms, boned turkey with truffles, ragout of beef with 
mushrooms, truffled omelet, or the more common "omelette aux 
champignons." In not a few cases the overloaded stomach rebels 
and indigestion is the legitimate result. From our own country- 
people who occasionally gather them, from the European peasantry, 
or from the people of China and Japan, who use them only in com- 
bination with such starchy foods as potatoes, bread or rice, we hear 
no complaints of indigestibility. In individual cases, however, it 
makes a great difference whether the person be of an active or 
sedentary habit of life. 

Edible fungi may be gene^rally classified as mushrooms, morels, 




FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 



181 



and truffles. Of the former, more than one thousand edible varie- 
ties are known to exist, although a comparatively small number are 
commonly used as food. They have also been classified according 
to the color of the spores, as white, pink, iron-color, purple, brown, 
and black. In describing the best known varieties I have chiefly 
relied upon reports made by Dr. Thomas Taylor, one of our most 
careful investigators and leading nomologists, aiidlvho has been for 
some years connected with the Agricultural Department at Wash- 
ington. His services, in investigating both the edible as well as the 
poisonous varieties of fungi, have been Invaluable. 

The common meadow mushroom, agarious campestris, is, always 
excepting the imported "button" mushroom, the variety best known 
in America and England. It is usually gathered in the autumn, be- 
ing most plentifully found just after the early frosts in September. 
It is delicate in appearance and flavor, is most delicious when 
cooked, and may be known by its shape, its white color, pink gills, 
and by the pleasant odor exhaled when it is bruised. Prom it an 
excellent ketchup may be made. 

The fairy ring champignon, marasmiiis oreades, is to be found in 
dry meadows, occasiohallyTipon lawns, and is so named because of 
its peculiar manner of growth. The mushrooms, which are small in 
size, invariably arrange themselves in rings or circles with astonish- 
ing regularity. If two rings chance to meet while forming, each 
elongates in the form of an ellipse. If the ring be interrupted by a 
stone or stick the obliging little fungi simply 
unite and continue the ring on the other side 
of the obstruction. No scientific explanation 
vof this manner of growth has ever been 
advanced. 

The giant puff-ball, lyeoperdon giganteum, 
is well known in country places, owing to 
' its commonness, and is noticeable because of 
its immense size. It consists of a simple ball, 
white or cream-colored, and from ten to 
twenty inches in diameter. It is edible only 
Fairy King Champignon, when unripe, the flesh being white, elastic, 
and fragrant. If allowed to ripen the mass becomes at first streaked 
with yeUow, later, transformed into a mass of powdery spores. The 
puff-ball grows upon prairie lands, particularly throughout the 
prairies of Nebraska, and should, because of it? nourishing proper- 




182 FOOD PKODDCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

ties, become, in that state, an important source of food supply. As 
the western people are, however, ignorant of its value it is rarely if 
ever eaten. An Italian mycologist, Vittadini, states that if a giant 
pufE-ball be found in good condition a slice may be taken off each 
day for a week, providing care be taken not to disturb its growth. 

A species of mushroom grown in the hot-houses of both Europe 
and America is known botanically as lepiota cepoestipes. It pos- 
sesses a delicate flavor when cooked, and is white in color, its 
surface being covered with tiny projections or 
tufts. It requires cultivation and has never 
been known to grow in the open air. 

The morel, or morchella eseulenta, grows 
''abundantly throughout the wooded portions of 
the United States, from Missouri to Maryland 
and from Virginia to Michigan and Wisconsin. 
Its use is restricted, however, to a compara- 
tively small number of people who know its value 
while in the European countries in which it 
gi'ows profusely it is greatly esteemed as a food. 
<m\v vr •B» ^ "^^ °^^ state, Michigan, the morel may 

Lepiota Cepoestipes. be always.gathered in the months of April and 
May in beech and maple forests and, where it is most abundant of 
all, in elm swamps, near streams. In appearance it is far from at- 
tractive, having a somewhat conical head, which is deeply honey- 
combed and of a light brown color. But, whether stewed or 
■saut^ed, it is tender, meaty in consistency, and delicious in flavor. 

It is not generally known in America that nearly all of the 
edible mushrooms may be cultivated with a minimum of care and a 
maximum of result, but such is nevertheless the case. Given a 
quantity of properly prepared compost, a darkened area, such as a 
cellar, in which the compost may be placed, a temperature not rising 
above 80° F., occasional watering after the spawn has been planted, 
and in six or eight weeks a crop of mushrooms wiU appear, reward- 
ing ten-fold the slight expenditure of trouble and expense incurred 
in starting the beds. It is quite unnecessary to give specific direc- 
tions in this place as they will be furnished by any reliable seed 
house at which the spawn may be obtained. However, information 
much more complete is to be found in the reports published by Dr. 
Thomas Taylor, Chief of the Division of Microscopy at Washington, 
D.' 0. I should advise everyone interested in the subject to send 




FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



18S 



for these reports, as they embody the most important contributions 
made during recent years to the science of mycology. They may be 
obtained by addressing the United States Department of Agriculture. 
There is probably not a grocery house of any account in our en- 
tire land which does not display upon its shelves "Imported Button 
Mushrooms from France," indicating that in that country, at least, 
the cultivation of the mushroom has reached astonishing propor- 
tions. They are usually cultivated in caves, the quarries and even 
the catacombs about Paris being thus utilized. One cave alone 
contains more than twenty-three miles of beds, which produce 
thousands of pounds of these delicious fungi daily. One can never 
be certain, when eating a .iuicy fillet of beef or a tenderloin, garnished 
with mushrooms, that the innocent little "buttons" did not draw 
their sustenance from the ashes of some Ulustrious Gaul I These 
fungi are analogous to the common meadow mushroom of England 
and America, and are gathered for export long before they are fully 
matured. The consumer thus gets an article which is leathery in 
texture, undeveloped in flavor, and ridiculously high in price. It 
seems little .Ifess than farcical that we should persist in importing 
a product which is indigenous to our own soil, which may be cheaply 
^_^ and easily cultivated, and which 

might thus be obtained with its 
growth matured, its flavor fully de- 
veloped, and its delicacy of texture 
unimpaired. In China the govern- 
ment has recently published an 
"Anti-famine Herbal" of six volumes, 
, containing descriptions and illustra- 
Jtions of over four hundred edible 
plants. It is to be deplored that 
our government does not emiilate so 
good an example, giving the edible 
mushrooms special recognition. I 
do not mean to say that mushrooms 
have never been cultivated in this 
country, for a small number of 
market-gardeners, particularly in 
the vicinity of the large eastern cities, have long cultivated them, 
more or less extensively, at enormous profits. But the secrets ol 
their trade have been jealously guarded and, until the last decade, 




Morels. 



184 FOOD PKObUCTS OF THE #01110. 

the growers have been regarded by the mass of people as exponents 
of a science that, from a horticultural point, of view, was thoroughly 
occult. The government reports issued from time to time have 
been the principal agents in disposing of this fallacy. 

The uninitiated gatherer of mushrooms is likely, to become sorely 
perplexed in the endeavor to distinguish the true from the false 
varieties, particularly if guided only by the popular theories or so- 
called "tests." But neither the onion nor the silver spoon tests are 
in all cases infallible. It is well to remember that poisonous varie- 
ties have usually an offensive odor; that the gills of the edible 
varieties are_never perfectly white but have usuaHy'iryellow or 
pink tinge. The only safe-guard'is perfect familiarity with the ap- 
pearance of certain species, which may be gained from the fungi 
themselves, or from colored drawings, such as those contained in 
Dr. Taylor's reports. 

Truffles, from the standpoint of natural science, are even less 
understood than mushrooms. They possess neither root nor 
branch, neither flower nor seed, growing in subterranean clusters 
without attaching themselves to any support. They develop a few 

inches below the surface of the soil 
and can be detected only by their 
aroma, which, when powerful, is slight- 
^ ly nauseating. Dogs and pigs have long 
been trained to burrow for them, 
guided by the odor, and, although the 
reason for it is not known, they 

Black and White Truffles. flourish best in oak forests. The most 
famous of the few truffle-producing localities of the world is Peri- 
gord, France, although they aro also found in other portions of 
France, in Italy, in England, and in Japan. Unlike mushrooms, 
they have never been produced under cultivation, and they are as 
yet unknown in America excepting in bottles, with their flavor 
much impaired and their price correspondingly high. Those of 
finest flavor come from Perigord; the English or Hampshire truffle 
is somewhat inferior-, while still less delicate varieties arg eaten by 
the natives of Algeria and the Bedouins of western Asia. 

The truffle was earliest mentioned by Theophrastus, who de- 
scribed it as a rootless plant, engendered by the thunderstorms of 
autumn. It was known to the epicures of Greece and Borne, but 
was apparently lost sight of during the Middle Ages to be revived 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 185 

in France only after the dawn of the Renaissance. Said a famous 
French gourmet of recent days, "There must be two at the eating of 
a truffled turkey, the eater and the turkey.'' 

In appearance the truffle is far from attractive. It is spherical 
in shape, light in color when quite young but dark, nearly black, at 
maturity, and having a rough, warty exterior. Of the two varieties, 
the white and black, the latter is most valuable, owing to its more 
delicious fiavoiV and is the variety known to fame as "Truffe au 
Pei-igord." The best_are the size of an English walnut, while those 
weighing three or four ounces are considered large. Truffles are 
still occasionally found which weigh a pound and it has been stated 
that specimens from ten to fourteen pounds in weight have been 
gathered in Italian forests. As may be readily believed, the 
scarcity of this product as well as the uncertainty of its harvests 
are quite as important factors in the esteem with which it is held 
by the epicurean and the wealthy as are its marvelously delicate 
aroma and flavor. As Brillat-Savarin, high-priest of epicureanism, 
once remarked, '"Perhaps if they were not expensive, but were within 
reach of everybody, we should not prize them so highly." It is 
almost unnecessary to state that," owing to their chemical composi- 
tion which approximates that of meat, all the edible fungi require 
cooking. They are unfit to be eaten in the raw state. 

V.'hoever investigated the foods exhibited by the Japanese at 
the World's Columbian Exposition must have been astonished at 
the immense quantities of mushrogmsjthere exhibited. They were 
in a dried state, so light in color, so clean and attractive, that the 
visitor was quite prepared to learn of mushrooms as not only one of 
the most valued articles of food in the far-off island of the Orient, 
but one of the chief articles of export. They are cultivated by the 
Japanese upon decaying logs, a method peculiar to that people, and 
are^dfied for export. Tons upon tons are exported to China and 
quantities find their way to the Chinese shops of other Ip'^.ds. In 
San Fiancisco I found dried mushrooms in all the Chinese groceries 
selling at fifty cents a pound, an astonisEngly low price when one 
remembers how considerably drying reduces them in weight and 
bulk, while the hotels and restaurants of America are paying a 
dollar a pound for them in a fresh state. 

The Chinese import quantities of mushrooms from Japan, be- 
sides growing them extensively, thus furnishing to their densely 
populated communities, which subsist chiefly upon rice, a nitro- 



186 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

genous food, taking the place of meat in their dietaries. 

New Zealand also exports large quantities, although none were 
exhibited at Chicago, and the Terra del Fuegans have long lived 
upon little besides mushrooms and flsh. 

Models of all the edible mushrooms of America were exhibited, 
in all the glory of their numerous varieties, at the Government 
building at the exposition, and about them was always to be seen a 
wondering, admiring crowd. No exhibits were made by private 
growers. 




CHAPTER XXI. 




ROM a nutritive standpoint the edible legames 
are of more importance than any other vegetable, 
always excepting the esculent fungi. Commercially 
they rank next to cereals, although much richer 
than these in protein. They are peculiarly adapted 
to garden culture and are noticeable for their deli- 
cate vines and beautiful papilionaceous or butter- 
fly shaped flowers. The sweet-pea is a variety cul- 
tivated exclusively for its delicate, fragrant flower, 
as is frequently the kidney-bean or "scarlet run- 
ner." Indeed, the latter legume, for fully a hun- 
dred years after its introduction into England from 
South America, was cultivated only for use in bouquets, and as an 
ornamental vine. 

The legumes, under the name of "pulse," which in general in- 
cludes all the edible varieties, are spoken of in the Old Testament 
and are known to be of great antiquity. It was simple pulse that 
Daniel preferred to all the luxuries of the king's table, an example 
which leads one to exclaim with Milton: 
"If all the world 
Should i' a fit of temperance feed on pulse!" 
The legumes in common use are few in number, comprising 
only the bean, pea, chick-pea, and lentil. The esculent portion con- 
sists simply of the fruits or berries, which are eaten both green and 
dried as well as with or without the seed pod in which they develop. 
Of them the bean can boast of greatest antiquity as to origin. 



M 



FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



although even to-day ranking as a plebeian, rather than an aristo- 
cratic, food product. 

The bean is believed to have originated in Egypt, probably be- 
cause of its early mention by the Egyptian priests, who regarded it 
as an article unfit for food. This prejudice continued among the 
Greeks for some time after beans were introduced into their laud. 
Wild beans have long been used in Persia and the inhabitants of 
Barbary have long eaten them, stewed with oil and garlic. But 
numerous varieties have been developed from the original wild 
stock, and to-day we have the navy bean, kidney bean, Lima bean, 
French or haricot bean, in fact, a hundred species, more or less, all 
of which, however, possess the same general characteristics. 

Beans are specially valuable to densely populated communities 
because they furnish so large a proportion of protein to a given 
area of land. We find them, as well as other legumes, a standard 
food in the older nations such as China, Japan, India, France, Ger- 
many and most of Europe. Says 
one author: "A given area of 
land cropped with legumes and 
cereals will support a population 
more than three times as numer- 
ous as that which can be sustained 
J on the same land devoted to the 
growth of cattle." According to 
Payen the analysis of beans 
gives: protein, 25.50; starch, 55.70; 
cellulose, 2.90; fats, 2.80; salts, 
3.20; water, 9.90. As will be seen, 
they contain more protein than 
the best_hard wheat and twice as 
much as the soft. Since the six- 
teenth century it has been custom- 
ary to substitute beans, or other 
of the legumes, 'for meat -during 
Chick-pea. Lent, particularly on the fourth or 

Pas' "on Sunday. According to an old writer, "After the sallad we 
eat fried beanes, by which we understand confession. When we 
would have beanes well sooden, we lay them in steepe, for otherwise 
they will never seeth kindly." 

The Egyptians had a saying that children fed upon beans were 




fOOD PBObUCTS OF THE WORLD, "v 189 

well educated, a foreshadowing of the truth later established by 
science, that no child, unless well nourished, can fully develop 
mentally. 

At the Columbian Exposition more varieties (about one hun- 
dred) were exhibited by Brazil than by any other nation, showing 
how largely beans entered into the dietaries of that country and 
also how important a factor cultivation is in the differentiation of 
any species. Japan sent a large exhibit of the soy bean {vide chap- 
ter on condiments), as well as a bean product called tofic. This was 
Iso exhibited by China. It consists of the coagulated albumen of 
the bean, pressed into square cakes. It is white as snow, is sold in 
all villages and country places in the Orient, and in the Chinese 
markets in San Francisco. When frozen and dried the tofu be- 
comes of a spongy texture. All these preparations were accompanied 
by analyses, showing them to be high in point of nutrition. 

Mexico also exhibited beans. These, called "frijoles," when 
boiled with fat and flavored with capsicum and garlic, make a 
savory dish, but one not at all to the taste of the average American. 

The Boston method of baking beans has done a great deal to 
popularize the use of this food among Americans. The beans are 
cooked or baked very slowly, with the addition of just the right 
quantities of water and sugar, and a piece of either fat pork or bacon. 
The result is a thoroughly hygienic dish, one which in its propor- 
tions of protein, fats and carbohydrates, is an almost perfect and 
complete food itself. 

But the use of beans is by no means confined to the dried 
article, although that is most valuable, especially in the army or on -f 
shipboard, because it supplies so much nutriment in so little bulk. 
Green beans contain valuable organic- salts and are cooked either 
in the pods, as "string beans," or when mature, shelled. One of our 
finest dishes, a combination of sweet com and green beans, origin-, 
ated with the Indians, and is known as succotash from the Indian 
word, "su-sich-qua-tash." The deservedly anonymous author of a 
little English WOTk, published in 1832, naively assures us that "the 
bean in its green state is well known as a culinary vegetable; when 
mature and dried it is never used as human food in this couy jry, 
but is then considered good, though coarse, nourishment for labour- 
ing horses." 

Peas have been cultivated for food since the days of the Greeks, 
and it is believed that they were grown during still earlier periods 



100 



FOOD PBODTJCTS OF THE WOELD. 



in both China and India. The varieties known to-day were intro- 
duced into England from the continent in the seventeenth century 
and were long regarded only as "fit dainties for ladies; they come 
so far and cost so dear." 

Like beans, peas are used both in the green and the dried states 
and of one variety, grown chiefly in Europe, both pod and seed are 
used, being gathered when quite immature. 

The green pea, although far less nutritious than the dried, is 
considered much more of a delicacy because of its finer flavor. The 
Romans knew nothing about the use of peas green, and it was a 

Frenchman, one Miohaux, who not 
only discovered that they were edible 
but food fit for the gods, as well. That 
rare combination, lamb with mint 
and green peas, is alone enough to 
make one heartily thankful for the 
privilege of living in the modern 
world. 

Dried peas are most commonly 
met with in "split-pea" soup, the indi- 
gestible outer skin having been re- 
moved. 

Pea flour is also valuable, although, 
as it may be easily adulterated, it is 
advisable to buy the split peas when- 
ever practicable. The flour, when 
f orrded into small cakes by the addi- 
tion of a small quantity of fat, is a welcome addition to soups. In 
Germany, the "erbswurst," so much used by the army, is prepared 
from pea-flour, fat and condiments. It is so nutritious that but a 
small amount is suflicient for a long march. Like beans, dried 
peas require slow and prolonged^ cooking. They contain only 
.slightly less protein than dried beans. 

The garuanza or chick-pea is little known in America, although 
it is a cominon'^art'TcIe of diet in all the Mediterranean countries of 
Europe. It is much larger than the common pea and grows singly 
in dainty, rouad pods, its wrinkled surface giving it so odd an ap- 
pearance that one would not at first believe it to be a member of the 
leguminosce. It is believed that this pea was the "parched pulse" of 
the ancient Hebrews, and it i.^ still purchased by travelers who are 




Lentils. 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 191 

obliged to carry their own provisions across the wastes of the Ori- 
ental countries. Parched or dried chick-peas have long been sold 
in the shops of Cairo and Damascus. 

But the chick-pea of modern days is chiefly famous as an iugro- 
dient of that distinctively Spanish dish, "olla podrida." As are 
chowder and Boston baked beans to the New Englander, macaroni 
to the Italian or cheese to the Swiss, all that and more is the "olla 
podrida" to the Spaniard. The chick-pea does not become soft and 
pasty during the process of cooking, but each retains its own assert- 
ive little individuality so that, besides being an ingredient among 
others of soups, it may also be placed about meat or vegetables as a 
garnish. 

Spain exhibited the garbanza quite lavishly at the Columbian 
Exposition and one of the officials in that department displayed 
some surprise at my negative reply to the question, "And you 
never have olla podrida in America?" Said he, "Let me write you 
the receipt for making, for he who has never eaten olla podrida 
knows not what is fine eating!" The receipt was at length finished 
and presented to me with much ceremony. It occupied two entire 
pages of fool's cap paper. This was the first sentence: "It requires 
an entire day to make olla podrida for the six o'clock dinner"; and 
this, the second, "cook very slowly over a charcoal fire." Imagine, 
if you can, an American woman spending an entire day over a mess 
of soup, with only the murky and doubtful assistance of a charcoal 
flre! My Spanish friend must have been a bachelor who, while the 
peas were simmering, comfortably read, smoked and dozed amid 
the savory odors, quietly anticipating, perhaps, a trio of friends to 
share with him the evening meal. 

Lenjtils^although as valuable nutritively as peas and beans, are 
but little used in America, excepting by foreigners. This is prob- 
ably due to the fact that our abundant food supply riders the use 
of them quite unnecessary. Like split peas, they are to be found 
in nearly all markets, and when used, in soups or stews, are uni- 
versally liked in spite of their dark and unattractive color. Th,e 
mess of pottage for which Esau sold his birthright was undoubtedly 
made from lentils, and, from the earliest times until to-day, 
they have always been obtained in the shops and from the gardens 
of the Orient. Three varieties are now cultivated in both Germany 
and France, one of which closely resembles the common pea; the 
second is a larger, yellowish variety, and the third, the small brown 



192 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



lentil whose delicate flavor is much prized in soups. Lentil soup 
should always be made in the form of a pur^e, the indigestible 
outer skin being removed by straining, and a bit of pork, bacon or, 
if preferred, butter added to supply the necessaty amount of fat. 
Lentil meal is also combined with sugar and sold as a sweetmeat, 
or, under the name of ervalenta AraMca, as an infant's food. The 
use of the starchy foods, such as rice or lentil meal, as the basis 
of sweetmeats and candies is peculiar to the Orientals. The plant 
greatly resembles the pea-vine, the pods, which grow in clusters, 
containing never more than three or four seeds. 




CHAPTER XXII. 



TUBEKS AND SUCCULENT BOOTS. 




F THE large family of plants which produce 
tubers, the potato {solanwm, tuberosum) is our 
best-known type. No plant grown, always ex- 
cepting wheat, to-day occupies a more import- 
ant place in the dietary of the nations of the 
western world, although it is far more valuable 
commercially than nutritively, and was all but 
unknown until a comparatively recent date. 
Authorities difEer as to where the potato was 
first discovered or by whom first cultivated, 
although probably in South America, as the 
Spaniards there found it under cultivation by the natives in the 
sixteenth century. One author states that in Ireland the potato 
wp,s used as early as 1565, while Dr. Campbell, la his Political 
Survey, declares that it was not there introduced until 1610. Not 
until 1728 was it considered important enough to be cultivated in 
Scotland. 

It was introduced into that land by one Thomas Prentice, a day 
laborer, in spite of great opposition from the higher classes, who 
objected to it on religious grounds. "Potatoes," they said, "are not 
mentioned in the Bible." But 1742 and 1743 were years of famine 
and consequently of high prices for the scanty food that was ob- 
tained. "The destitute wandered in the fields, seeking to prolong 
the misery of existence by devouring the leaves of pease, bea»s, 



194 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



sorrel, and other wild plants, while not a few perished from abso- 
lute want. Still more v/ere carried off by the diseases which always 
follow famine, and this state of things naturally called attention to 
the cultivation of the potato." 

In England it was not grown outside of kitchen-gardens until 
after 1770, but it so rapidly grew in public esteem that a quarter of a 
century later, "seventeen hundred acres were planted with this 
tuber, in Essex county alone, for the London markets." An English 
writer of the last century referred to it as "a root found in the New 
World consisting of knobs held together by strings, and which, per- 
haps, if you boil with dates, may serve to keep body and soul to- 
gether among those who can find nothing better." Prom which it 
may be inferred that a few Philistines were still to be encountered 
long after the potato won not only popular favor but even the recog- 
nition of royalty, for, in 1584, Baleigh is said to have obtained a 

patent from Queen Elizabeth "for 
discovering and planting new coun- 
tries, not possessed by Christians," 
with potatoes. 

Bishop Heber, in speaking of its 
introduction into India, says "it has 
been attended with most satisfactory 
results and, by degrees, its cultiva- 
tion is becoming more and more ex- 
tended. It is held in much esteem 
by the Musselmen as a very useful 
^absorbent in their greasy messes. . . . 
A dry season is prejudicial to the rice 
crop while it is favorable to the po- 
tato; therefore, nature makes one 
crop a substitute for the other." 

In 1827 the potato was the most 
important field crop of entire Poland. 
For more than a hundred years before that date it had been exten- 
sively grown in Sweden, where it was commonly used, after being 
dried and ground, as a substitute for flour in the making of bread. 
But it did not reach Saxony until 1740, and, half a century later, 
prejudice continued to be so strong in that country against the use 
of potatoes that Count Rumford, when desirous of using them 
for the celebrated soups with which he so long fed the poor of 




Potato. 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 105 

Munich, was obliged to smuggle them into his rooms. They were 
secreted in the basement and there cooked and reduced to a pulp 
before being added to the soups. The improvement in his cookery 
was so marked that when Count Rumf ord at last told of the reason 
the despised tuber rose immediately in public esteem. 

The Indians of North America have long used the wild potato, 
although they seem to know nothing of its cultivation. At the 
Columbian Exposition wild potatoes were exhibited by the Nez 
Forces tribe, under the direction of Miss Alice Fletcher. They 
were combined, after having been mashed and dried, with jerked 
meat and also with berries, very sensible and nutritious combina- 
tions of food. It is difflpalt to believe that the potato of our com- 
merce, so universaUy^'dsed as food, and the varieties of which num- 
ber far into the huiidreds, has been developed from the insignificant 
wild root of the prairie. 

No vegetable has proven more tractable in the hands of the 
cultivator. The edible portion develops perfectly only under- 
ground and comprises the roots or tubers, which are simply the 
underground stem, greatly enlarged at it^ free end. Prom the buds 
or "eyes'' of these tubers the plant is ptopagated. New varieties, 
however, are usually the result of propagation by the seed. Its 
cultivation is limited by about the same climatic conditions as that 
of wheat, the lighter soils producing, in general, larger crops than 
the heavier. This Ts'due to the fact that the tubers have less resist: 
ance to overcome in the process of their growth in a light soil and 
are not forced to develop partially above ground as is the case with 
the wild variety. Prom an English horticultural report I quote the 
following: "Some careful cultivators pinch oflE the blossoms as they 
appear on the plant. This increases the yield about a ton an acre. 
. . . The reason is that the sap which gives sustenance alike to 
the tuber and blossom will be exerted for the enlargement of the 
root." Whether this expedient is a common one I do not know. In 
America the finest potatoes I have ever seen were grown in Montana 
and Washington, their uniformity in quality and size being due to 
irrigation. Excellent potatoes are also grown in the lighter soil of 
Michigan, as well as in most of the other states, although the crops 
are not always uniform, owing to occasional drouth. 

In regard to the nutritive value of potatoes we have made no 
comparisons which are, broadly speaking, much more reliable than 
those made by Sir Humphrey Davy half a century ago in England, 
U 



196 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

According to him, "the nutritive power of wheat to that of potatoes 
is about as seven to two, or two pounds of wheat aflEord as much 
sustenance as seven pounds of potatoes. . . . The weight of the 
two kinds of food from the same extent of land is nearly as one to 
eight. Now if we assume that the consumption of an individual is 
480 pounds of wheat, its equivalent in potatoes would be 1690 
pounds. Then one acre of wheat wiU produce enough food for 
three persons while one acre of potatoes will feed six and five-sixths." 
This latter deduction is quite likely to be misleading. For modern 
dietetic science has clearly proven that a person whose principal 
food is potatoes, no matter in how abundant quantities they 
might be consumed, would be far less sufficiently nourished 
than one whose staple food is wheat. The analysis given by Dr. 
Lethe by is as follows: 

Protein 2.10 Salts 0.70 

Starch 18.80 Water 75.00 

Sugar 3.20 

Pat 020 100.00 

Potatoes should be considered as an auxiliary to other foods, 
rather than a food in themselves. Owing to their deficiency in pro- 
tein they are wholly unable, unless reinforced by nitrogenous arti- 
cles of diet, to satisfy the needs of the human system, while they 
contain a wholly dispEQp,ortionate amount of starch. Used alone 
they cannot sustain the health or strength of the system for more 
than a short time. It is related, however, that in Saxony during the 
latter part of the seventeenth century a detachment of French 
troops was cut off, for a period of ten days, from all supplies. 
During that time the soldiers subsisted entirely, without inconveni- 
ence, upon potatoes from neighboring fields. 

But all people who consume them as a daily food, year after 
year, reinforce their diet with articles rich in proteids. The Irish 
use quantities of milk, more per capita than any other nailon, ac- 
cording to Dr. Smith; the Scotch, an abundance of oatmeal and 
cheese; the Swiss and Germans, cheese and flesh foods, and the 
English and Americans, quantities of meat. But in no place are 
potatoes more prized than on shipboard, owing to their anti-scor- 
butic qualities. They are an invaluable adjunct to the salt meat of 
a sailor's diet, which, unless accompanied by vegetables or acid 
fruits of some kind, soon develops scurvy. In the excited days of 
'49 the value of potatoes becanie apparent when scurvy developed 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 197 

among certain communities of miners on the Pacific coast, who were 
subsisting almost entirely upon salt meat and flour. The disease 
yielded readily to a diet of raw potatoes, which at one time are re- 
puted to have sold at a dollar apiece. 

The starch of potatoes is an important commercial product 
while j).otato flour is even more valuable as it contains all the 
chemical constituents of the tuber. In Russia the latter prepara- 
tion is largely used^f or soups, stews or, in combination with wheaten 
flour, for the making of bread. Meal is also made from potatoes, 
pared, sliced, then thoroughly dried and ground. Potato flour was 
exhibited by Russia at the exposition. 

In the early history of the tuber opinions were rife as to whether 
it should be converted, in cooking, into a savory or a sweet dish. 
Certainly the following receipt, given to an inquiring world by cue 
Hannah Wooley in 1770, should have settled that question forever: 
"Have your pie-dish lined vrith a crust. Lay in butter and potatoes, 
boiled until very tender, with whole spice, marrow, dates, the yolks 
of hard-boiled eggs, blanched almonds, pistachio nuts, candied peels 
of orange, citron and lemon. Close the pie vfith a crust, bake, and 
serve with wine, butter and sugar." 

The Irish prefer potatoes boiled with their "jackets on," that is, 
unpeeled. This has the advantage of retaining all the salts whicJi 
would otherwise escape into the water in which they were boiled. 
There are infinite ways of preparing this vegetable for the table 
which have the cardinal virtues of simplicity and healthf ulness, but 
in doing which the average housewife is far from skilled. To quote 
the expressive sentences of Sidney Smith, v/ho depended greatly 
upon potatoes during a certain period of life when he was too poor 
to buy meat: "At this moment (1830) there are few French cooks 
who can boil, mash, fry, pulverize, or roast a loafer in such appetiz- 
ing forms as necessity, the mother of invention, forced me to learn. 
It is a thousand pities that BngUsh women know no more hov/ to 
dress vegetables than I do how to dance on the tight rope." 

Although the use of the sweet potato antedates that of the com- 
mon potato, its origin is quite as mysterious, as it is not to be found 
growing in any country in a wild state. It is probably native to 
both hemispheres and was brought to Spain from the Malayan 
peninsula long before the white potato was introduced into Europe. 
That to which Shakespeare has referred is believed to have been 
of this variety. Botanloally, the two are wholly unrelated, the sweet 



198 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



potato {batatas edulis) belonging to the convolvulus family, possess- 
ing a delicate, climbing vine and flowers which are only a little less 
attractive than the garden morning-glory. 

Its cultivation is limited to the warmer parts of our temperate 
climates and in America it is peculiarly a product of the cotton and 
tobacco-producing states. Several, although not many, varieties 
exist. 

Sweet potatoes yield about the same per cent of protein and 
starch as the white, although containing ten per cent or more of 
sugar. They are, on account of this excess of sugar, less mealy and 
somewhat more mucilaginous than the white, when cooked. 

The people of America and Europe regard the sweet potato 
simply as a vegetable, while those of Siam, Johore and East India 
preserve it as a sweetmeat. A large exhibit of these preserves, 
put up in a clear syrup, palatable to the taste and attractive in ap- 
pearance, was sent to the Columbian Exposition from these coun- 
tries. Japan exhibited sweet potato flour and also the same vege- 
table dried. For the latter process the potatoes are first peeled, 
then immersed in hot water for a time, then taken out, sliced, and 
placed upon mats in the sun. Drying has 
been attempted in the South of our own 
country but has not been done success-; 
fully as yet. 

It is related that Marion, an American 
general of the Revolution, once dined an 
English officer upon sweet potatoes, baked 
I in the ashes of his camp-flre and served 
»upon strips of bark. The officer later re- 
signed his commission and returned to 
England, saying that it would be impossi- 
ble to conquer a people who were willing 
to live upon sweet potatoes! 
Jerasalera Artichoke. jhe yam is the fleshy, tuberous root of 

an ornamental vine of the dioscorea family, and is probably native 
to the East Indies. The name is commonly but incorrectly applied 
to those varieties of the sweet potato which contain most sugar and 
which are better liked in the South than the starchier kinds. 
Botanically it is wholly unrelated to either the white or sweet pota- 
toes, although its root resembles that of the latter and is cooked 
and used in the same way. The tuber is less delicate of flavor, de- 




FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE "WOKLD. 199 

veloping to an astonishing size, some of those gathered in the East 
Indies weighing twenty-five, occasionally thirty, pounds. The plant 
was brought to this country from the West Indies in 1733 but not 
until more than a century later was it generally used as food, and 
only then (in 1845) on account of the disaster wrought by potato 
disease. It will probably never be extensively grown on account of 
the ^treme difficulty of gathering .ihe crop. The tubers, which 
are larger at the base than at any other portion, grow perpendicu- 
larly downward and have to be carefully dug out, as, owing to their 
brittleness, they break if pulled. There are two principal, and 
more than a hundred minor, varieties. 

Salep is the tuberous root of the orchis maseula, a small plant 
native to the East Indies, and highly valued throughout Turkey, 
Syria, Persia and, in fact, nearly all countries of the Orient. It is 
there regarded as a specific for nervousness, but is really no more 
than a simple and nutritious vegetable. The root contains about 
fifty per cent of a mucilage or jelly known as bassorin, and about 
thirty per cent of starch. It is prepared for use by being heated 
until transparent, then dried, usually in the sun. When needed 
for food the little, bulbous roots are either immersed in boiling 
water or crushed into a powder. A century ago it was commonly 
used by the working classes in the Orient, but "the salep-staU has 
long been replaced by the cofEee-staU." It is but little known in 
either Europe or America. 

Taro is the Hawaiian name for the root of the colooasia escu- 
lenta, which is cultivated by the natives of the Sandwich Islands for 
ths sake of its large, fleshy tubers. Like our potatoes, they are 
eaten both roasted and boiled, and are an important ingredient of 
the national dish, pot, a muSlaginous, slightly fermented dish, tast- 
ing quite like sour paste, eaten with the fingers from the calabash 
and prized beyond all oSier food. The leaves of the taro, which 
rise directly from the root, are used much as we use ^piHach. The 
taro has recently been introduced into southern CalifdrmaTwhere 
it grows well, but, as yet, the demand for it is not extensive. 

The Jerusalem artichoke is not the artichoke proper but a 
plant of "the sun-flower family, which is cultivated for its edible 
tubers. It is native to Brazil and, possibly, Mexico, but is cultivated 
to only a small extent either in America or England, probably be- 
cause other foods are so abundant as to make the use of it quite 
unnecessary./ The plant produces large numbers of tubers which, 



200 



iFOO0 PRODUCTS OF THfi WOfeLD. 



although extremely ugly in shape, resemble potatoes. They are 
not injured by freezing and are usually allowed to remain in the 
ground all winter. Chemical analysis shows them to contain but a 
very small percentage of starch but nevertheless to be slightly 
more nutritious than potatoes. The tubers may be cooked or eaten 
raw as a salad. 

The arrow-root, a plant native to both the East and West Indies, 
is chiefly valuable for the starch extracted 
from the fleshy roots. It is particularly 
useful in the preparation of invalid dishes, 
although often adulterated with the starch 
of the cassava or the potato. It is credited 
by the native East Indians with various 
medicinal virtues which it does not actu- 
ally possess. 

One of the most remarkable of our 
products is the cassava or manioc plant, 
the fleshy, starch-producing tubers of which 
furnish food for so large a proportion of 
our tropical and sub-tropical nations. It 
is known botanixsally as jatropha manihot. 
The two principal varieties are the sweet 
cassava, which may be known by its flve- 
cleft palmate leaves, and the bitter or 
poisonous, the leaves of which are seven 
parted. The bitter variety is most com- 
mon in the tropics. It is fit for food only 
laJter the poisonous properties of the root, 
which are due to the prussio acid con- 
tained, are dissipated by heat. From the 
pulp, well washed and heated, the tapioca 
Sweet Cassava. of commerce is prepared. The maSioc 

which poisoned Stanley's rear-guard in Africa was simply the root 
of the bitter cassava which was eaten raw. Prom the juice of this 
variety a substance known as cassareep is made (vide condiments) 
and from the flour, a delicate, palatable bread, not, however, as high 
in nutritive value as the best wheaten bread. From it an alcoholic 
drink is prepared which is, unfortunately, too highly esteemed by 
the natives of the cassava-producing countries. 

The native method of extracting the juice is unique ^ho 




POOD PEODtCTS OF THE WORLD. 



m 



Indians weave from, reeds a curiously shaped, tubular press or 
strainer, closed at the bottom. Into this the ground pulp of the 
root of the bitter cassava is placed, and the press is suspended with 
a stone tied to the handle shaped bottom. The weight of the stone 
lengthens out the press and the poisonous juice is squeezed through 
the interstices. 

The root of the sweet cassava {manihot utilissima) is used much 
as are potatoes, the juice being innocuous. This variety has recently 
been introduced into Florida. It was exhibited at the Columbian 
Exposition. Cassava grows well in the sandy lands of the South, 
a valuable food for animals as well as man. Ac- 
cording to the analysis made by H. W. Wiley, chem- 
ist of the United States Department of Agriculture, 
the roots contain 3.47 per cent of albuminoids (pro- 
tein) and 71.85 per cent of starch. They attain a 
weight of several pounds and, as many tubers are 
produced by each plant, the crop is a profitable one, 
yielding as high as five tons to the acre. Besides 
starch, which is always valuable commercially, glu- 
cose is prepared from the roots, also a small propor- 
tion of cane sugar and a superior tapioca. The 
cassava will inevitably take a high place among our 
starch producing plants as it becomes more gener- 
ally known. 

The succulent roots, like the tubers, are used 

n||i merely as adjuncts to other foods, although they 

|\ contain a much smaller percentage of starch. They 

are liked because of their flavors, which are quite 

distinctive, and are valuable because of the organic 

salts contained. 

The turnip (brassiea rapex) has been cultivated 
since the days of the Greeks, although the wild 
variety is still to be found growing in the fields of 
Europe. The object of cultivation has been to in- 
crease the size of the root without sacrificing 
Cassava Strainer, tenderness and flavor. While at flrst only a 
product of the kitchen garden the turnip is now grown, 
like potatoes, in flelds. The two chief varieties are the 
white and the yellow. The uses of it in cookery are well known, 
but it is doubtful if the gastronomic skill of modem days C!"- ■"'^er 



\\ 



202 FOOD PEODOCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

equal that of an ancient, royal cook. It is related that the king of 
Bythnia, while on an expedition against the Scythians was, one 
winter day, seized with a desperate longing for a certain small fish, 
a pilchard or herring, one writer says a loach. The sea lay at some 
distance and a fish was quite out of the question. So the ingenious 
cook procured a turnip, cut it into the shape of a fish, cooked it in 
oil, salted, seasoned, and well powdered it with grains of black 
poppies, and served it to the king as the particular flsh he so much 
desired. His majesty could not have been hypercritical as to food, 
for he was exquisitely deceived and praised the root to his guests as 
a "most excellent fish." 

In Rome, in the days of Pliny, turnips were worth a sestertius, 
about two-pence, each, the best being brought from the district of 
the Sabines. FUny relates that the roots occasionally weighed 
forty pounds, a weight that no region of modern days, unless it be 
our own state of Washington, can equal. 

In England, during the years of 1629 and 1630, there was such 
dearth of food that a bread was made from equal parts of turnip, 
which was deprived of most of its moisture, and flour. It was 
known as turnip bread and, although not very nutritious, was an 
acceptable substitute for the cereals, then so much in demand. One 
is reminded of the sarcastic Jeames Yellowplush who said th&t the 
most "unexceptionable swarry" he ever sat down to consisted of 
due proportions of mutton and turnips. 

In Bussia turnips are considered quite a luxury by all classes 
and are frequently eaten as fruits. Even among the nobUity, ac- 
cording to one author, thinly sliced, raw turnip is served with tiny 
glasses of brandy, as a relish. 

The fondness of the Laplanders for this vegetable is even more 
remarkable. They will often exchange a whole cheese for one 
turnip, thereby displaying an ignorance of the relative nutritive 
values of the two articles that is certainly ludicrous, for the turnip 
is not only rather indigestible unless cooked, on account of its 
large proportion of cellulose or woody fibre, but is most innutritions. 
I think the adage, "you cannot get blood from a turnip," must have 
been inspired by the doctrines of certain thin-blooded philosophers 
who insist upon a diet of "bran-bread" and vegetables. 

The carrot {daucus carota) is indigenous to many portions of 
Europe, although only the cultivated varieties are sufficiently sweet 
and tender to find ready favor as food. It was introduced into 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



203 



England from Flanders during the reign of Elizabeth and was a 
favorite vegetable in the time of James I. The ladies of the court 
adorned their hair with its leaves, which were light, graceful, and a 
good substitute for the traditional feathers. From being exclusively 
a garden vegetable the carrot was easily adapted to field culture, 
two principal varieties being developed, the large, and the short or 
horn carrot. The root is valuable for feeding cows as, unlike the 
turnip, it does not impart any flavor to the milk. 

A transverse section of the carrot reveals two distinct portions, 
the outer, which is deep red in color, pulpy in consistency and 
containing a large proportion of saccharine matter; and the heart or 
core which is light yellow, less sweet and, when mature, fibrous or 
woody. The gardeners of all times have exerted their best efforts 
to produce a carrot which should contain the greatest possible pro- 
portion of outer pulp. The carrot is more used by the French than 
by ourselves, both as a vegetable and as a savory addition to soups 
and stews. When raw it is believed to possess antiseptic proper- 
ties. It is, like turnips and all succulent roots, very low in nutri- 
tive value, containing but little starch or sugar, 
and consisting principally of water which, ac- 
cording to Letheby, constitutes eighty-three 
per cent. 

The beet {beta vulgaris) has been cultivated 
since the time of the early Bomans and is de- 
scribed by Pliny. By these people it was un- 
doubtedly introduced into England, at what 
date is not known. It is now extensively used 
in Europe and America, the red variety being 
more attractive for table use than the white or 
yellow. When young the plant, leaf, stalk and 
root, is boiled as "greens," making a truly appe- 
tizing dish which may be served either with 
Salsify. butter or some acid as dressing. Beets produce 

abundantly and it is said that in Guernsey one hundred tons to the 
acre have been raised. A specially sweet variety is now cultivated 
in France, Germany, Russia, and the United States for the sugar 
contained, which is of a high quality. 

The parsnip (pastinaca sativa), like the carrot, is a biennial. It 
also possesses similar characteristics and habits of growth. There are 
four varieties. The root is not injured by frosts but may be left in 




204 fOOD PBOblJCtS OF THE WORLD. 

the ground all winter. It contains somewhat more starch than the 
carrot and, when slowly roasted in the ashes, appears to be nearly 
as farinaceous and mealy as the potato. In the north of Scotland 
the peasantry prepare a dish composed of equal parts of parsnip 
and potato, to which are added butter and simple seasonings. In 
Catholic communities the use of it, combined with salt fish, is gen- 
eral during Lent. 

The salsify {tragopogon porrifolius) is commonly known in 
America as the oyster plant or vegetable oyster owing to its flavor, 
which approximates quite closely that of the delicious bivalve. It 
is related to the lettuce and dandelion although the only edible 
portion is the long, tapering root. It is native to England, and the 
original variety has been so much improved by cultivation, in size 
as well as flavor, that few gardens on either side of the Atlantic are 
to be found without it. 

The black oyster plant {scorzonera hispanica) was earliest cul- 
tivated in Spain to which it is indigenous. The Moors valued it 
for its supposed medicinal properties, believing, as did also the 
people of Africa, that it was a specific for snake bite; hence its 
name, from sourzo, a species of snake. 

Like salsify the plant has a milky juice and a flavor resem- 
bling that of the oyster. But, as it is a darker, coarser, and some- 
what inferior vegetable, there is little to recommend its use if 
salsify is to be obtained instead. The flesh is white, having a slightly 
bitter flavor, which is dissipated by thorough soaking in cold water 
before cooking. The root has long been used in Spain as a vegeta- 
ble although not introduced from that country into France until 
the seventeenth century. 




CHAPTER XXIII. 



ACETARIOUS OR SALAD PLANTS. 




pHJii salad plants contain no appreciable amount of 
nutriment, yet are, owing to their crispness and 
cooling properties, an indispensable portion of the 
ideal dinner and are aids to the digestion by virtue 
of the acids and other condiments with which they 
are dressed. It is to the French that credit must 
be given for using salad plants at their tables the 
year around. A salad of simple vegetables, occa- 
sionally combined with lobster, shrimp, or meats, over which is 
poured the equally simple dressing of oil and vinegar or lemon 
juice, is daily served by almost every housewife in the land. The 
Germans and Americans use salad plants extensively, although with 
somewhat less of favor than did the ancients. More than two cen- 
turies ago the Irish used salads of sorrel, dressed with vinegar, 
sugar, and mustard. 

The early Jews ate at the Passover lettuce, tansy, camomile, dan- 
delion and mint, the "bitter herbs" of the Paschal feast, all of 
which were combined with oil and vinegar. Tansy was frequently 
eaten at the Easter day dinners of Europe as late as the sixteenth 
century. 

The Romans early regulated the use of vegetables by penal 
statute which compelled the people to combine them freely with 



m POOD PEOD0CTS OP THE WORLD. 

meats in their dietaries. That they loved salads "Virgil bears cordial 
witness. From the Cowper translation I quote the following de- 
scription of the way in which they were made by the ancient Boman: 

"With hasty steps his garden round he sought; 

There, delving with his hands, he first displaced 

Four plants of garlic, large and rooted fast; 

The tender tops of parsley next he culls, 

Then the old rue bush shudders as he pulls. 

And coriander last to tliese succeeds. 

That hangs on slightest thread her trembUng seeds. 

Placed near his flre, he now demands 

The mortar at Ills saWe servant's hands. 

When, stripping all his garlic first, he tore 

The exterior coats, and cast them on the floor. 

Then cast away with like contempt the skin, 

Flimsier concealment of the cloves wltliin; 

These, searched and perfect found, he, one hy one, 

Einsed and disposed within the hollow stone. 

Salt added, and a lump of cheese, 

With his Injected herbs he covered these. 

And tucking vrith left hand his tunic tight. 

And seizing fast the pestle with his right, 

Tlie garUc bruising first, he soon expressed 

And mixed the various juices of the rest. 

He grinds, and by degrees his herbs below. 

Lost in each other, their own powers forego, 

And, with the cheese in compound, to the sight 

Nor wholly green appear, nor wholly white. 

The work proceeds; not roughly turns he now 

The pestle, but in circles smooth and slow. 

With cautious hand that grudges what it spills, 

Some drops of olive oil he next Instills, 

Then vinegar, with caution scarcely less. 

And gathering to a ball the mealy mess. 

Last, with two fingers frugally applied. 

Sweeps the small remnant from the mortar's side. 

And thus, complete in color and in kind, 

Obtauis at length the salad he designed." 

In Oriental countries flowers are frequently used in salads, 
probably quite as much for ornament as for flavor, and it is said 
that the Japanese even serve their national flower, the chrysanthe- 
mum, at their tables. Flowers were also added to the salads of 
fourteenth century England, according to Evelyn, violets and haw- 
thorn-blossoms, primroses and marigolds, daisies, elder flowers, 
roses, cowslips, orange blossoms, and even the tender buds of the 
hop vine. 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 207 

Shakespeare testifies to the English appreciation of the salad as 
a cooling dish when he makes Jack Cade say (punning upon the 
word "sallet," which meant at that time a helmet as well as a mix- 
ture of herbs and green vegetables): "Wherefore, on a brick wall 
have I climbed into this garden, to see if I can eat grass or pick a 
sallet another while, which is not amiss to cool a man's stomach 
this hot weather. And I think this word sallet was born to do me 
good; for many a time, but for a sallet, my brain-pan had been cleft 
with a brown bill; and, many a time, when I 
have been dry, and bravely marching, it hath 
served me instead of a quart-pot to drink in; 
and now the word sallet must serve me to 
feed on." 

For many sorts of salads does this world 
(feed on, from the carefully mortared prepara- 
tion of the Roman to the dish of modern 
America, all pink and green and white, with 
its ingredients, whatever they may be, cool, 
Artlclioke. crisp, and individual, no triturated prepar- 

ation, but one just enough bruised and broken to yield to mixture, 
"frescoed with waves of golden mayonnaise," fragrant as country 
flowers, and as dainty, spruce and cool as a floating sea- weed. 

Chief among salad plants is lettuce, known to the botanist as 
laetuea sativa, owing to its milky juice. The ancients held it in 
peculiar esteem, possibly because it was the fragrance from a bed 
of wild lettuce that revived the wounded Adonis when he was placed 
upon its soothing leaves by the weeping goddess, Venus. The plant 
was used by the ancients at the close of a meal, its cooling proper- 
ties being believed to counteract the heating effects of wine. Says 
Pope: 

"If your wish be rest. 

Lettuce and cowslip wine probatum est." 

There are two main varieties of lettuce, with numbers of varia- 
tions, the cabbage shaped, which forms in heads, and the Cos lettuce, 
curly and broad leaved. It is not known when or at what place lettuce 
was first cultivated, probably on some of the Greek islands of the 
Mediterranean, such as Cos. In 1520 it was first introduced into 
England from Flanders, and, ten years later, under Henry VII., we 
read that the gardener at York Place received a reward for bringing 
"lettuze" and cherries to Hampton Court. To-day it is universally 



208 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 

cultivated iu both hot houses and gardens, a rapid, unchecked 
growth being induced for the sake of tenderness, crispness, blanch- 
ing at the center, and to prevent the development of the bitter 
principle. It is wholesome at breakfast, excellent at lunch, and 
almost necessary at dinner; good for yourself to eat and most 
dainty to serve to your friends; of all salad plants the most delicate 
and most prized. 

The inspissated juice of the lettuce, which possesses in a mild 
form the medicinal virtues of opium, has held a place for many 
years among pharmaceutical preparations. It is obtained from the 
flower stalk just as the flowers are about to open. The stem is cut 
with a sharp knife just below the buds, the milk oozes from the in- 
cision, quickly dries, and hardens into a brown scale. This is taken 
off, another section of the stalk is made, another scale is formed, 
and this process is repeated over and o^^er again until the juice is 
exhausted or, perchance, the weather interferes. Although this 
procedure is both laborious and slow, owners of lettuce farms have 
reported satisfactory proflts even during unfavorable years. 

Endive (cichorium endivia), usually called winter lettuce, be- 
longs, like lettuce proper, to the dandelion family. It was earliest 
under cultivation in China and Japan, whence it was introduced 
into the European countries during the sixteenth century. The 
plant produces an immense mass of leaves from the crown of 
the root, which are smooth of surface but deeply serrated at the 
edges. Although more acrid and tough, when exposed to the air, 
than lettuce, the leaves when blanched become crisp, tender, and 
appetizing. Blanching is done in various ways: by keeping the 
mass of leaves tightly tied together, by covering the whole plant 
with a pot or, again, by partially covering with earth. Endive is 
blanched to perfection by the German gardeners in the vicinity of 
our large cities, and is particularly valuable because it may be ob- 
tained in the winter when there is dearth of other salad plants. It 
is closely allied to the chicory of England and France. 

The radish (raphanus sativns), although its succulent root is 
the part used, is properly one of the acetarious plants, because it is 
eaten as a relish. In many countries the tender, young leaves, as 
well as the seed pods, are used for salad but, owing to its pungency, 
the root is looked upon as a condiment rather than a food. The 
garden varieties are two, one possessing a long fusiform root, the 
qtber, small and turnip-shaped, Dither kind may be yejlgwish, 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



209 



black, or white, in color, although the brilliant red roots are far pre- 
ferable, specially for garnishing. The field varieties are larger, 
coarser in texture, and stronger in flavor. The radish has been 
known and cultivated in India since a remote period but was not 
introduced into England until the sixteenth century. 

Celery (opium graveolens) has become so changed and improved 
under cultivation that it bears little resemblance to the original 
wild plant. There are the red, white and green varieties, the latter 
being almost universally whitened by blanching. The desideratum 
is not size but tenderness and delicacy of flavor, although under favor- 
able conditions and in rich soil it develops enormously. In the 
state of Washington plants occasionally 
attain a weight of six pounds, and it is 
recorded that a head of celery, cultivated 
in the vicinity of Manchester, England, in 
11815, weighed nine pounds and measured 
four and one-half feet in height. Celeriac, 
or the turnip-rooted celery, is also used 
for salads, the root being boiled and, when 
cold, sliced with acids and other condi- 
ments. 

The nasturtium or Indian cress (tro- 
paeolum majus) is an excellent salad plant, 
although cultivated in America chiefly for 
its brilliant flowers. Leaves, stems and 
flower buds give a pungent and appetizing flavor to a salad, 
while the seeds, if pickled in brine similar to capers, may be used as 
a condiment. The plant is called nasturtium erroneously, but the 
misnaming of it is undoubtedly due to its acrid, pungent flavor, the 
name being derived from two Latin words, nasus and tortus, meaning 
nose-torturing. The true nasturtium is known as the common 
water cress. 

Water cress (nasturtium officinale) belongs to the mustard fam- 
ily. It grows wild in abundance throughout portions of Europe and 
America, at the edges of ponds, near springs, and upon the banks of 
small streams, always under water. It is now cultivated for the 
market by sowing the seed in tanks of water in which a deep layer 
of sand has been placed or, better still, at the margins of natural 
creeks or streams. The cultivated cress is larger and more tender 
than the wild while containing all of the aromatic pungency so 




Kohlrabi. 



210 FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

much prized. The garden variety, which is even more acrid and 
pungent than water cress, is known as "pepper grass." It is useful 
both as flavor and garnish. 

The sorrel (rumex aeetosella) is a hardy plant that iS much better 
known in Europe than in America, although well adapted to garden 
aulture. It is a member of the buckwheat family. The leaves of 
the variety known as French sorrel are slightly more acid than the 
common garden sorrel. 

Corn salad or lamb's lettuce (valerianella olitoria) grows wild in 
southern and central Europe, but is cultivated throughout the con- 
tinent. Like chicory, it is an admirable substitute for lettuce dur- 
ing the spring and winter months. 

Spinach (spinacia oleracea) belongs to the beet family. It was 
originally called hispanach or Spanish plant, having been first used 
by the monks of Spain during fast days. The plant is native to 
Japan and New Zealand, probably also to southern Europe, al- 
though it was not introduced into England until the sixteenth cen- 
tury. Several varieties are cultivated in our gardens during both 
spring and winter. The leaves are boiled and dressed v/ith butter 
or with acids and the simpler condiments. The leaves as well as 
the root of the common beet (beta vulgaris) are boiled and dressed 
like spinach while young and tender, and an excellent dish may be 
prepared from the whole, young plant, boiled and dressed in the 
same way. Swiss chard is still another variety of beet, cultivated 
for its leaves but particularly for its large, fleshy leaf -stalks which, 
when cooked, are almost as delicate as asparagus. 

The artichoke (cynara scolymus) is cultivated solely for the sake 
of its immature flowerheads, which are not only cooked but are 
served raw with condiments in the form of a salad. It somewhat 
resembles the thistle, to which it is botanieally related, and is be- 
lieved to thrive best in those countries which border upon salt 
water. Since 1473 the plant has been cultivated in Venice and, in 
fact, throughout Italy as well as other of the Mediterranean coun- 
tries. It was first introduced into England during the reign of 
Henry VIII., and in the Harleian library there is still preserved a 
paper written in the time of Queen Mary and relating to the "best 
settynge and keepynge of artichokes." The vegetable is still more 
largely used upon the continent than elsewhere, and is but little 
known in America. Quantities of canned artichokes were sent by 
Italy to the Columbian Exposition. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 



211 



Oiie of the earliest and most delicate of our garden products is 
aspai-agus [asparagus officinalis), in appearance and manner of 
growth resembling the salad plants but usually boiled and dressed 
as a vegetable. The stalk is the portion used and, although con- 
taining very little nutriment, is prized for its flavor. It is best 
grown on well manured soil which is treated annually to a top- 
dressing of salt. In some countries it grows luxuriantly on light, 
sandy soil which is heavily dressed with seaweed. The plant has 
been cultivated since the days of the Greeks and Romans, and was 
mentioned by the poet Cratinus in the fifth century B. C. Cato 
speaks of it in his treatise, "De Re Rustica," and about a hundred 
years later Pliny discusses its care and cultivation in his work on 
natural history. He asserts that three heads of asparagus, grown 
in the neighborhood of Ravenna, have been known to weigh a pound. 
The green seed-pods of okra (hibiscus esculentus), a plant native 
to the West Indies but cultivated in the southern states, are stewed 
and served like asparagus. When dried, the pods are chiefly used 
for thickening soups, or making "gumbo."' The plant belongs to 
the maUow family, all members of which possess the mucilaginous 
properties which distinguish the okra. 

Rhubarb (rheum rhaponticum) is a member of the buckwheat 
family and, like sorrel, possesses an acid flavor. Only the fleshy 
petioles or leaf -stalks are used for food but the plant is particularly 
valued because it is ready for use in the spring long before any 
fruits or even the principal salad plants are to be had. The peti- 
oles, stewed and sweetened, are a good substitute for fruit. Several 
varieties are cultivated, the root of one 
,(rheum palmatum) being used as a medi- 
cine. It is native to Tartary. The com- 
mon garden variety, known as pie-plant, 
wine-plant, and in England as monk rhu- 
barb, is also indigenous to portions of 
Asia and was not introduced into Europe 
until the sixteenth century. 

The cabbage (brassica oleracea capitata) 
is that particular member of the brassica 
family in which the broad leaves, arising 
directly from the root stalk, are gathered 
or folded together in a compact head. 
Brussels Sprouts. Owing to tb?ir compression and exclusion 
u 




212 FOOD PBODUOTS OF THE WORLD. 

from the light the leaves become crisp, tender, and blanched. It is 
impossible to determine when or just where the cabbage was origin- 
ally cultivated, possibly by the Germans or early Saxons. One 
authority states that the old Saxon word for sprout-kale was given 
to the month of February, as that was the month in which sprouts 
were earliest gathered from the old stalks. The cabbage was in 
common use in Rome as food for both freemen and slaves. It was 
introduced into England at an early date but not generally culti- 
vated until after many years. It was Ben Jonson who said, referring 
to the customary importation of this vegetable, "He hath news from 
the low countries in cabbages." The plant may have been intro- 
duced into Scotland by German fishermen, although more probably 
by the English soldiers of Cromwell. But, however it came, the 
cabbage has long occupied a unique place in Scottish national 
cookery and particularly that of the common people. The Irish 
have a dish which somewhat corresponds to the kale-brose of the 
Scotch, which they have named "kolcannon," and which consists of 
a bit of salt pork, boiled with potatoes, cabbage, and seasonings. 

The cabbage when crisp and tender is commonly dressed for the 
table raw, delicately sliced and combined with vinegar and oil or 
mayonnaise. It is also prepared for winter use by being cut or 
sliced and packed into casks with a little salt. After fermenta- 
tion this is known as "sauer kraut," and the making of it is quite an 
industry both in the United States and in Germany. Sauer kraut is 
of special value to sailors asan anti-scorbutic, and is quite as effica- 
cious as lemon juice or green vegetables. 

All the plants of the brassioa family have a tendency "to sport 
or run into varieties and monstrosities," although still retaining to 
a marked degree the flavor peculiar to cabbage. Chief among these 
varieties are the kale, kohl-rabi, Brussels sprouts, cole wort, broccoli, 
and Cauliflower. Kale, also called borecole and German greens, 
differs from its kinf oik in that the leaves do not form a head but 
branch out, each separate, from the main stalk. In kohl-rabi, or 
turnip-cabbage, the stem is greatly developed above the ground into 
a turnip-like bulb, which is the part used. Brussels sprouts have 
been cultivated near Brussels and in other parts of Belgium since 
the early part of the thirteenth century. The sprouts are miniature 
cabbage heads, one or two inches in diameter, branching upon the 
main stalk. Colewort or "coUards" consists of a large, open-hpaded 
cabbage or mass of leaves, growing loosely upon the rather tall. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 



213 



central stem. Broccoli is a variety of cauliflower, differing mainly 
in that the head is loosely divided into smaller heads. The cauli- 
flower itself, dainty, delicious, the one white rose of our kitchen 
gardens, might be defined as the cabbage in the highest state of 
evolution. It is of Italian origin, was early cultivated in Cyprus, 
and at the time of the French Revolution was exported into Eng- 
land, Holland, Germany and France. It was introduced into 
England at the beginning of the seventeenth century, and soon at- 
tained great perfection under cultivation. We have no vegetable 
more delicious, none more satisfactory, in the hands of a skillful 
cook. But, alas I the water-soaked, overcooked, maimed, and dis- 
colored article 'that is to be seen upon many an elaborate table 
testifies that skillful cooks are all too rare. When properly served, 
like a miniature mountain of snow, with a simple white sauce or 
au gratin with a sprinkling of Parmesan 
cheese, one is fain to exclaim with Dr. John- 
son, "Of all flowers I like cauliflowers 
rbest." 

The onion (allium cepa) and its confrferes, 
the leek, garlic, shallot and chives, are 
more remarkable for flavor than for any 
other quality. But all are largely used as 
ingredients of salads, particularly in France 
and Germany. Owing to their medicinal 
and antiseptic virtues they occupy a unique 
Oi^ra. place among our vegetable foods, and there 

is not a little truth in the old couplet, 

"Eat onions in May 
And all the year after physicians may play." 
The plant is of great antiquity and was worshipped in Egypt 2000 
years B. C, and to this day Egj^ptians devoutly hope that the onion 
may be numbered among the viands of Paradise. It is usually 
eaten by them roasted, with meat. Alexander the Great found the 
onion in Egypt and, believing that it would excite martial ardor, 
brought it back to Greece with him and furnished it to his army. 
It also flgured in Druidic worship, a custom that may have de- 
scended from the equally mysterious rites of the divine Isis. Liter- 
ature is full of allusions to the onion, perhaps because of its distin- 
guished lineage. Macauley wrote to a friend one Michaelmas time of 
"The churchman gay, who will wallow to-day 
In apple-^^uce, oniops and sage"; 




214 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

and years before this Cervantes bestowed upon it an enviable im- 
mortality when he made Sancho Pansa say, "To tell the truth, what 
I eat in my corner without compliments or ceremonies, though it be 
nothing but bread and an onion, relishes better than turkey at 
other folk's tables." Both the leek and garlic have been mentioned 
as condiments but they are also used in salads. Garlic grows 
wild along the shores of the Mediterranean and a wild variety 
found in Eamtchatka and Russia is much prized as a vegetable by 
the poor of those countries. 

Chives is a hardy plant which grows wild throughout the hilly 
districts of both Europe and Asiatic Russia. It is cultivated for 
the sake of its delicate, green, tubular leaves, which are a good sub- 
stitute for onions, particularly in soups and stews. 

Two of our garden fruits, because of the way in which they are 
customarily prepared for the table, are properly classed as salad 
plants. These are the tomato {lyeopersieum eseulentutn) and the 
cucumber (eueumis sativus). The tomato (from the Mexican word, 
tomatl) was formerly known as the love apple. It is native to India, 
possibly to the warmer portions of Europe and America, but is now 
very generally cultivated. There are many varieties and the ten- 
dency among cultivators seems to be to increase the size without 
sacrificing the deep red color or the firmness of the flesh. When 
green the fruit is used for pickles and preserves; when ripe, it may 
be stewed as a vegetable, made into a ketchup, or, better still, sliced 
raw for a salad. When so used and simply dressed with oil, vinegar, 
pepper, and salt nothing can be more appetizing and delicious. The 
value of the tomato crop of the United States is annually increas- 
ing, the largest output being from Maryland and New Jersey. 

The cucumber, of which there are several varieties, belongs to 
the melon family. That it has been cultivated since the earliest 
of historic times, particularly in Syria and Egypt, is proven by the 
occasional reference made to it in the Old Testament. The cucum- 
ber of Syria is to-day grown in open fields, so extensive as to re- 
quire the constant presence of a watcher, a custom dating from an 
ancient period and alluded to in the Bible. It has been known in 
England since the reign of Edward III. but did not come into gen- 
eral use until the seventeenth century. The cucumber is always 
plucked green, and is usually dressed for the table like the tomato. 
It is very largely made into pickles, specially a prickly variety 
known as gherkin, which is cultivated wholly for that purpose. 



POOD PEODTJCTS OF THE WORLD. 215 

Among other plants which are occasionally cultivated for salads 
is the cardoon (oynara cardunculus). This is little known outside 
of England and the south of France, where, like its cousin the arti- 
choke, it is greatly prized. Only the tender, crisp, blanched leaf- 
stalks are used. But numbers of our uncultivated herbaceous plants 
are also used, not a few of them being considered wholly epicurean. 
Among these are the marsh marigold or cowslip, tender, young 
nettles, hop sprigs, young milkweed shoots, even borage and com- 
frey. Still humbler confreres are the narrow-leaved dock and the 
dandelion, the latter now being extensively cultivated by the east- 
ern market gardeners. Tender, uncurled leaves of fern make a 
pleasant salad and tarragon leaves are also useful as a flavor. In 
England a salad is often made from seaweed, boiled and chopped 
with condiments. A specially favored variety is samphire, which is, 
however, usually pickled for use. 




CHAPTER XXIV. 



FRUITS AND NUTS. 




H E history of our cultivated fruits, it may be 
stated witliout much exaggeration, is the his- 
tory of civilization. Wherever communities 
are to be found existing in a condition of 
rudeness or barbarity, there the cultivation of 
fruits is a science quite unknown. On the 
ether hand, in lands governed by the arts and higher industries we 
see attributed to the science of horticulture great importance. 
Only when the industries and luxuries of civilization are introduced, 
whether by conquest or commerce it matters little, do the native 
fruits come to be improved by cultivation; only then are those of 
other lands imported and acclimatized. The fruits of the early 
Britons, in fact, of all the early uncivilized nations of northern 
Europe, were few in number, among them being the acorn, the hazel 
nut, and a most insignificant variety of apple. The very ones that 
we have come to believe indigenous to Europe to-day, the peach, 
pear, apple, cherry, and plum, were introduced into these lands by 
the Roman conquerors, who in turn had first obtained them from 
the Orient. The Europeans later carried them to the newly found 
land of America and a century later, says Humboldt, "the Spaniards 
spread the cultivation of the European vegetables along the ridges 
of the Cordilleras, from one extremity of the continent to the 



214 FOOD PEODOCIS OF THE W0EL1>. 

other." Whenever pioneer work is undertaken we find the trans- 
portation of fruits from the old lands to the new an almost inevit- 
able result. 

The systematic cultivation of fruits did not begin until the 
eighth century. The monks were the earliest and most successful 
gardeners and fruiterers, in fact, they seem to have virtually monop- 
olized that industry, and up to the fifteenth century the monastic 
gardens and orchards were celebrated throughout all Europe. The 
industrial classes in general did not realize the value of horticult- 
ure and not until the decline of monasticism did they generally en- 
gage in it. Queen Elizabeth was one of its most enthusiastic pa- 
trons and during her reign, besides practical gardeners, numbers of 
scientific men, among them Fitzherbert and Gerard, contributed 
their share of labor in the form of voluminous treatises. Not later 
than the reign of Charles II. was the management of hot houses so 
well understood that the king's garden was occasionally supplied 
with strawberries and other small fruits entirely out of season. 
Writers of the period of Charles I. record that there were cultivated 
at that time fifty-eight varieties of apples, sixty-four of pears, sixty- 
one of plums, twenty-one of peaches, thirty-six of cherries, and 
twenty-three of grapes. Prior to that Lord Bacon had enumerated, 
among the fruits of an Elizabethan dessert, apricots, pears, grapes, 
apples, peaches, nectarines, wardens (a variety of pear, and of 
which Perdita's pies were made), quinces, medlars, barberries, fil- 
berts, and muskmelons. When we consider with what intelligent 
care many of our originally sub-tropical fruits have been acclimat- 
ized and improved by the gardeners of our temperate regions it ap- 
pears scarcely possible to overestimate the marvelous future of this 
science of horticulture. 

Fruits may be roughly classified as fleshy or pulpy, as drupa- 
ceous or stony, and as nuts or hard, dry fruits. The fleshy fruits 
comprise all of the citrus family, the citron, orange, lemon, lime, 
and grape fruit or shaddock; the guava, banana, pomegranate, paw- 
paw, and fig, of the tropics; all of the berried fruits, including the 
currant, grape, raspberry, gooseberry, cranberry, elderberry, huckle- 
berry, strawberry, mulberry; the melons, which are merely hard- 
rinded berries; and the pomes, the apple, pear and quince, which 
are formed from the permanent calyx and the seeds of which are 
not scattered throughout the pulp but are enclosed within mem- 
branous cells. The drupaceous fruits, including the cherry, plum, 




FOOD FKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 219 

peacli, nectarine, apricob, date, litchi, and mango, consist of a single- 
celled, stony nucleus containing the seed, -which is surrounded by 
a succulent, fleshy coat. The principal edible nuts are the almond, 
brazil-nut, cocoa nut, walnut, chestnut, hazel-nut, filbert, beech-nut, 
acorn, pecan, and a few others. The peanut is simply the tough, 
leathery pod of a leguminous plant; the tamarind consists of the 
succulent pulpy pod of a leguminous tree; and the pineapple ad- 
mits still less of classification, consisting as it does of the entire 
abortive flower spike, consolidated into a single 
head or fruit. The bread fruit, which is also 
tropical, is formed by the consolidation of 
the fleshy carpels of the pistillate flowers, 
v.'hich blossom in dense clusters, quite sepa- 
rate from the staminate flower spikes. 

There has been much conjecture as to 
where the orange, the most important mem- 
ber of the citi'us family, originated, although 
writers generally agree that it is indigenous 
to India. Galessio, in his "Traite du Citrus," 
published in Paris in 1812, maintains that the Arabs, who penetrated 
further into India than former explorers, brought from that country 
both varieties, the bitter and the sweet. Part of the Arabs, coming 
to Italy through Persia and Syria, brought the sweet orange {citrus 
aurantium),vihile the remainder of the company, who came through 
to Seville by quite another route, brought the bitter {citrus vulgaris), 
commonly known to-day as the Seville orange. Both species have 
been greatly varied and multiplied since that time. They were not, 
however, introduced into other parts of Europe until some years 
later. In the sixteenth century Sir Walter Raleigh carried the 
orange into England, where the climate, it seems, has always been 
unfavorable to its growth. In Spain orange trees attain great size 
and bear fruit up to a good old age. It is said that there are trees 
stUl standing about Cordova which are six, possibly seven, hundred 
years old. Oranges are now extensively grown in California, Florida, 
and to a smaller extent in Mexico. Cultivators consider that size 
should not be secondary to color and flavor, other desired qualities 
being a smooth, thin skin, containing but a small quantity of oil, a 
light-colored, sweet pulp having but a small proportion of flber. 
The varieties which have a thick coarse skin, with prominent oil 
glands, are usually inferior. The orange has always been more or 



m 



FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



less invested with romance, perhaps because the Crusaders, who 
first met with the fruit in their excursions to the Levant, so indus- 
triously fostered the theory that it belonged in reality among the 
golden apples of Hesperides. 

The citron is a fruit of great antiquity and was held in high 
favor by the ancient Hebrews, who always, according to Josephus, 
carried branches of palm and citron trees to the tabernacles upon 
feast days. It is cultivated now in many of the Mediterranean 
countries, also largely in California, and the wild variety flourishes 
in portions of Asia Minor. The fruit is generally used as a sweet- 
meat or preserve. It is possible that the 
orange, lemon, lime, and grape-fruit have 
all been produced by culture from the 
original wild citron tree (citrus medied). 

The lemon, like the orange, seems 
to have been unknown in Europe un- 
til brought to Spain by the Arabs in 
the thirteenth century. Since that 
time the culture of it has spread un- 
til it has become an important source 
of revenue in all the Mediterranean 
countries, and recently, also, in Cali- 
' fornia. The trees, if well cared for, 
bear profusely and the fruit stands 
transportation well. Besides yielding 
a valuable essential oil, which is ex- 
Guava. tracted from the rind, the lemon 

yields an acid juice which is wholesome, delicious as a flavoring 
agent, and an effectual preventive of scurvy. For this purpose it, 
or the juice of the lime, is always indispensable on shipboard. In 
England ships going to countries in which lemon or lime juice is 
not to be obtained are required by law to take with them a quantity 
large enough to furnish each of the crew with an ounce daily. The 
lime (citrus limetta), or wild lemon, is not extensively cultivated 
excepting in the island of Montserrat. The juice is valuable as an 
anti-scorbutic but is not ordinarily as highly valued for its flavor 
as lemon juice on account of the slightly musty odor, which in- 
variably develops after it has been extracted for a few days. 

The shaddock or grape-fruit, sometimes called sweet-baU, is an- 
other of the citron family. It is native to the Malaysian peninsula, 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 221 

possibly also to China, and derived its name from one Captain 
Shaddock, who first carried it from China into the West Indies. 
Both the tree and fruit are much larger than the orange, and the 
flavor, while delicate, is decidedly more acid. It is cultivated 
throughout the tropics, as well as in America and Europe. In 
the former country it is commonly known as grape-fruit, in England 
as shaddock. 

According to an old Scandinavian legend the apple {pyrus 
malus) was early distinguished as the favorite food of the gods, who 
always ate of it whenever they found themselves growing infirm of 
either body or mind. When we remember that the apple so extra- 
ordinarily honored could have been nothing better than the little 
crab of northern Europe it seems appropriate to pay universal re- 
spect to the apple of to-day, with its glorious color, succulent text- 
ure, and truly delicious fiavor. That it was one of the earliest 
fruits cultivated by the Komans, who seem to have attached great 
importance to aU branches of horticulture, we know from the 
writings of Pliny, who mentions thirty varieties. Since that time 
nearly two thousand varieties have been produced, usually by 
means of grafting or cross fertilization. 

The apple was early introduced into England, but the more 
delicate sorts, which were chiefly used for dessert apples, were little 
known until the reign of Henry VIII. By his gardeners large 
orchards were planted throughout all Kent, and pippins in particu- 
lar became a frequent luxury at the royal table. Shakespeare fre- 
quently refers to the pippin, so called because raised from pips or 
seeds. Says Justice Shallow to Falstaff, "You shall see mine 
orchard, where, in an arbour, we will eat a last year's pippin of my 
own grafllng.'' 

Apples were brought to New England by the first settlers and 
were easily cultivated even on the barrenest land. To-day the fruit 
is cultivated all over our country, and the most insignificant farm 
is incomplete without its apple-orchard. The fruit may be had in 
excellent condition the year around as it does not lose fiavor when 
transported or even after being stored for months. The tree bears 
fruit farther north than almost any other, although most prosper- 
ous in regions having long, hot summers. It may be roughly classi- 
fied as of three varieties, dessert apples, cider apples, and those 
best adapted for cooking. The first kind, of which the pippin is a 
good example, must be fragrant, delicate of flavor, juicy, tender. 



222 



POOD PROD0C1S OF THE WORLD. 



and very digestible. Culinary apples are more acid, less digestible, 
and the flavor of which is developed only by the application of heat. 
Cider apples should be sweet and juicy, although inferior apples of 
all varieties are commonly used. As early as the reign of Charles I. 
large cider orchards were planted throughout England, and for a 
long time the manufacture of cider greatly interfered with the wine 
trade of France, a circumstance which in no measure displeased the 
English, who were for a century or so on none too friendly terms 
with their neighbors across the channel. Gerard describes a typical 
orchard, containing "so many trees of all sortes that the servants 
drink, for the most part, no other drink but that which is made of 
apples. The qualitie is such that, by the report of the gentleman 
himselfe, the parson hath for tythe many hogsheads of cyder." 

The pear {pyrus communis) is closely related to the apple and, 
like it, is of ancient and distinguished lineage. Homer refers to the 
"pendent pear" in his description of the orchard and "squadron'd 
vineyards" of Laertes, father of Ulysses, and the fruit was in culti- 
vation in Rome long before the time of Pliny. By the Romans the 
pear was carried to England, where it has always held high favor 
and the choicer varieties of which have customarily graced the royal 

tables. Pear cider or wine, called 
perry, has long been made in that 
land. Like the apple, the fruit i^ 
susceptible to great improvement 
under proper culture, although it 
is less hardy and does not stand 
transportation as well unless 
picked long before ripe. Our 
. largest pears are grown in Wash- 
ington and California, but lack 
the fine flavor of those grown in the middle and eastern states. 

The quince is indigenous to Asia Minor, possibly to Greece, 
having been brought from the latter country to Rome. Both the 
Greeks and Romans cultivated it by grafting. Although related to 
the apple and pear, it is in many respects quite inferior, its tough- 
ness and astringency rendering it wholly unsuitable for a dessert 
fruit. But the fragrance and aromatic flavor, as well as the mucilag- 
inous properties, are splendidly developed in cooking, while the 
toughness and indigestibility are greatly modified. It is princi- 
pally used for marmalades, preserves and sauces, often in combina- 




FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 223 

tion with apples. In recent years it has been greatly improved and 
a variety known as the orange quince is tender and of excellent 
flavor. 

The grape (vitis vinifera) is the most important of all our 
berried fruits, owing both to its intrinsic value and to its 
great antiquity. Although native to some portion of Asia, its exact 
origin will probably never be traced. The Egyptians had a legend 
that Osiris taught men to cultivate the vine, a bit of divine helpful- 
ness that among the early Greeks was attributed to Bacchus. Cer- 
tain it is that the Greeks used vidne long before Homer lived and 
sung, and since remotest of periods wine, pressed from grapes, has 
always been an appropriate offering to the deity among the He- 
brews, and to the gods among all the polytheistic nations. From 
the scriptural statement that Noah planted a vineyard when he be- 
gan to be a husbandman, it is evident that the grape was one of the 
earliest fruits cultivated. 

In its dispersion throughout the various nations of the world 
the vine followed the same course as the other fruits, being first 
carried from Asia Minor into Greece, later into Rome, thence into 
the countries of northern Europe by the Roman conquerors, and 
later still to the new world. Vineyards were several times men- 
tioned in the old Domesday Book, that record of all English es- 
tates, which was compiled under the direction of William the Con- 
q'ueror. A wine trade which flourishes to-day was very early built 
up in France, as well as in Spain and Italy, where the finest vine- 
yards were for a time cultivated by the monks. Within the last few 
years the wine industry of California has become important, al- 
though scarcely able to compete with the countries of Europe whose 
vineyards were first planted hundreds of years ago. Vineyards, 
once planted and well cultured, will last for centuries, as have many 
of those in France and along the Rhine, that river of legend, whose 
"clustering grapes hang about its temples as it reels onward in its 
triumphal march, like Bacchus, crowned and drunken." 

There has been much speculation as to who first made wine, but 
the Germans have a legend which asserts it to have been of divine 
origin. "An angel, visiting the earth some time after the Deluge, 
found the patriarch Noah sitting at noon in the shadow of a fig- 
tree, very disconsolate. The angel inquired the cause of his grief. 
Noah replied that he was thirsty and had nothing to drink. 'Noth- 
ing to drink?' replied the angel. 'Look around. Do not the rains 



224 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

fall, and the rivers run, and is there not a spring of water bubbling 
up at the cottage door?' 'It is true,' replied Noah, smiting his 
breast, 'that there is an abundance of water in which thy servant 
can bathe; but, alas! when I think of the multitudes of strong men, 
of beautiful women, and of innocent children, and of the countless 
hosts of animals, that were drowned in the Flood, the idea of water 
becomes distasteful, and my lips refuse to drink.' 'There is reason 
in what thou sayest,' replied the angel, and spreading his wings, ho 
flew up to heaven quick as the lightning-flash; and while the eyes 
of Noah were still dazzled with the brightness of his presence, he 
returned with stock of the vine, which 
he taught the grateful patriarch how to 
plant and tend, and how, when the fruit 
was ripe, to press it into wine." 

The grape, while a favorite dessert 
fruit, is even more valuable in the raisin 
industry. Our best imported raisins are 
known as the Malaga, Valencia, and 
Muscatel, according to the locality in 
which produced. There are also the tiny 
Pomegranate, Flower and Fruit. Sultana or seedless raisins and the Cor- 
inths or currants. Until the last twenty-flve years the Mediterra- 
nean countries have had a monopoly of the raisin trade of both 
hemispheres, but since then have had a formidable rival in the 
/growing industry in California. The same species of grape are 
grown as in Europe, the Malaga, Muscatel, known as the Muscat or 
Alexandria grape, the Sultana, Tokay, and many other varieties. 
Besides the use of intelligent and cleanly methods, the climate of 
California is a great factor in the production of raisins that are in 
no way inferior to the foreign product, for the grapes must always 
be dried in the sun, and there must be a minimum of dew at night 
that the drying process may not be checked. Experiments in dry- 
ing the grapes by artiflcial heat have always failed. The Sultana 
raisins of Europe are brought into the markets of Asia Minor on 
the backs of camels and are there repacked by the buyers before ship- 
ment. Baisins, like grapes, are considered to have a decidedly 
hygienic value, containing about one-half grape sugar besides 
potash and salts. 

Our principal table berries are the currant and gooseberry, 
which belong to the saxifrages; the blackberry, mulberry, straw- 




FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 225 

berry, and red and black raspberry, all of the rose family; the 
elderberry, which is akin to the honeysuckle; and the cranberry 
and huckleberry, which are heathworts. All are too familiar to 
need an extended description. The currant, of which there are two 
varieties, the red and black, is probably native to England. The 
bush is nearly always to be found growing in the gardens of both 
England and America, bearing fruit which is as luxurious as it is 
cheap. Currants are chiefly used for jellies and pastries. 

The gooseberry, like the currant, is native to moderately cold 
climates and does not flourish well in countries much warmer than 
England. Its numerous varieties have all been produced from two 
main sorts, the prickly or hairy and the smooth skinned. 

The blackberry, the fruit of the bramble, although very satis- 
factory in its wild state, is also extensively cultivated. It grows 
abundantly in certain portions of England as well as America, in 
fields and at the borders of woods, and its delicious fruit is each 
year gathered by "berrying" parties. 

The mulberry is the fruit of a tree which has been cultivated In 
certain portions of Asia from time immemorial. It is several times 
mentioned in the old Testament. In the sixteenth century it was 
introduced into England and France. Although its aromatic fruits 
are well worth cultivating, the tree is now generally utilized for 
its leaves, which are necessary to the silk-worm industry. 

The strawberry is primarily a plant of the temperate or colder 
latitudes, and grows wild throughout northern Europe and portions 
of North America. The fruit is peculiar in that it consists of the 
fleshy torus or floral axis, greatly enlarged, and upon the surface of 
which the tiny seeds lie imbedded. Cultivation has greatly enlarged 
the succulent portion, at the same time improving the flavor, until 
the strawberry has come to be considered one of our choicest dessert 
fruits. It has long been grown in the gardens of England and is 
mentioned by Holinshed in the "Chronicles," as well as by Shakes- 
peare. 

The raspberry, both the red and black varieties, is cultivated in 
many gardens, although it is not a wholly satisfactory fruit as the 
berries lose flavor so soon after ripening. The bush resembles that 
of the currant in general size and appearance. According to one 
writer the common name was given to it because of the roughness 
of the fruit. 

The elderberry is the deep purple fruit of a tall shrub which 



226 



FOOD FKODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



grows wild in parts of America and Europe. It is never cultivated, 
although, the owners of land upon which the shrub flourishes, usu- 
ally at the corners or edges of fields, prevent its destruction as far 
as possible. Elderberry wine is occasionally used to adulterate the 
more costly wines, such as port. The leaves and bark have a cer- 
tain medicinal value, while the green fruit, preserved in brine, is 
used for garnishing, like capers. 

The cranberry has long been important commercially in parts 
of North America, particularly in the Cape Cod region. It grows 

upon low, moist soil, utilizing to great 
profit hundreds of acres of marshy 
land which would otherwise be almost 
worthless. The berries ripen in the 
is — autumn, and the picking continues un- 
til frosty weather. The berries, which 
until cooked are tough, acid and 
astringent, keep their flavor for weeks 
if properly packed, and are shipped to 
all portions of America, to the West 
Indies, and to Europe. 

The huckleberry, whortleberry or 
blueberry, grows also at its best in and 
about peat bogs and marshes in parts of 
Scotland and America. It is but rarely 
cultivated. Although hardy the fruit 
does not stand transportation as well 
as the cranberry. 

Of the melons, which are immense, 
hard-rinded berries, only two sorts are 
commonly used as dessert fruits, the watermelon and the musk- 
melon or cantaloupe. The latter is native to parts of central Asia 
and v;as first introduced into Europe by the Romans. It is said 
that the best melons in all the world grow in Persia, where they have 
been cultivated for centuries. The fruit becomes in that climata 
extremely succulent and sweet and some of our finest varieties have 
been produced from seed brought directly from the Levant. The 
best and most delicate variety is the canteloupe. 

The watermelon is native to the warmer countries of the Orient, 
fosouthern Europe, and to South America, although now cultivated 
in all lands having long, hot summers, particularly our southern 




Date Palm. 



FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WOELD. 227 

states. It is a specially cooling and gratifying fruit because of the 
quantities of deliciously flavored juice which it contains. The 
rhymer has well said of it: 

"The poet may sing of the Orient spices. 
Or Barhary's dates In their palmy array. 
But the huge, rosy melon in cold, juicy slices 
Is the Helicon lont of a hot summer day." 

What the cereals are to the inhabitants of the temperate re- 
gions the banana or plantain is to the natives of the tropics. Even 
the rudest of African tribes depend upon it so largely for food that 
they propagate it to the extent of cultivation. Although indigenous 
to Asia the banana is now nowhere to be found in a wholly wild 
state. It is an herbaceous plant (mtisa sapientum), related to the 
cinnamon, ginger and arrow-root, but which rises under favoring 
conditions to the dignity and height of a tree. After maturing its 
fruit, which it produces in immense clusters, the plant dies. The 
banana Is enormously productive, more so to the acre than any- 
thing else in the entire range of food products. Humboldt has es- 
timated that four thousand pounds of bananas may be produced 
from a space that could not be made to yield above thirty -three 
pounds of wheat or ninety-nine pounds of potatoes. Besides its 
productiveness, the fruit is so nourishing, being largely composed 
of starch and sugar, that its importance can hardly be overesti- 
mated. A patch of bananas only a few feet in extent will suffice to 
maintain a family in comfort. Bananas are commonly dried by the 
people of the tropics, when they somewhat resemble figs in both 
color and flavor, and are also preserved by immersion in a clear 
syrup. Banana meal, which is ground from the dried fruit, is even 
more valuable. It contains more than seventy per cent of starch. 

The guava belongs to the myrtlebloom family, all the members 
of which are exotic trees or shrubs. It is now cultivated in nearly 
all of the lands to which it is indigenous, chiefly the East and 
West Indies, and Asia. The fruit of both the red and white varie- 
ties is sweet and aromatic, although, as it does not bear transporta- 
tion, it is seldom seen upon our tables excepting in the form of a 
jelly or preserve. 

The fig (flcus carica) is the fruit of a small tree native to the 
countries of Asia Minor and southern Europe, and is as remarkable in 
its nature as in its history. The pulpy fruit contains numberless 
seed-like pericarps, having developed directly from the tiny flow«t«> 
buds. These become fertile without putting forth petals after the 
W 



228 FOOD PKODUCXS OF THE WOKLD. 

manner of other flowers, in fact, remaining almost wholly invisible. 
The fig tree is mentioned in the sacred writings of the Hebrews as 
well as in the earliest traditions of the Greeks. By the latter 
people it was widely cultivated and later successfully transplanted 
to their Italian colonies. We read in the statutes of Lycurgus 
that flour, wine, figs, and cheese were to comprise the chief food 
of all Spartan men who dined at the common tables. Equally with 
the grape the flg was sacred to Bacchus, who was thought to have 
derived from it alone his health and vigor. 

The fig tree was planted in England early in the sixteenth cen- 
tury but, owing to the severity of the winters, it could never be de- 
pended upon to mature its fruit or even to remain in vigorous con- 
dition. Two, sometimes three, harvests of figs are gathered each 
year in the Levant, the second crop or summer flg being dried for 
export. It is now cultivated in the southern states and California. 
The fruit, whether freshly plucked or dried, is very nutritious and 
in parts of the Orient is often used as a substitute for bread. It 
contains a large proportion of grape sugar. 

Like the fig, the pomegranate was known to the early Hebrews 
and was cultivated in the countries bordering on the Red Sea be- 
fore any other fruit, excepting the grape, flg and olive. It was 
used by the Jews in many of their religious ceremonies and also ap- 
pears as an accessory in Greek mythology. You remember Perseph- 
one by eating half of the pomegranate which Pluto had given her 
as an earnest of his love, condemned herself to spend half of each 
year with him in his underground kingdom of Hades. The tree is 
native to Persia, perhaps also to northern Africa, and is remarkable 
alike for the stately beauty of its appearance, for its longevity, and 
for its handsome flowers. The fruit is slightly acid, and is mild in 
flavor. 

The papaw {carica papaver) is native to tropical America. It 
is curious in that the pistUlate and staminate, or male and female, 
flowers blossom on wholly different trees. The fruit, which is the 
size of a small melon, is agreeable of flavor when at its best, but is 
usually exported to foreign countries only after being pickled. 

Of drupaceous or stony fruits the cherry, plum, peach, nectar- 
ine, and apricot are now grown in our temperate regions, although 
not indigenous thereto, while the date, litchi, and mango are to be 
found only in the tropics. 

When Lucullus returned to Rome after his victory over Mithri- 



FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 229 

dates in the province of Pontus, he brought with him a cherry tree 
laden with fruit and with it adorned his triumph. "In less than 
one hundred and twenty years after," says Pliny, "other lands had 
cherries, even as far as Britain beyond the ocean." The small wild 
cherry, still to be seen in France, England, and the United States, is 
probably indigenous to those countries. In England, Henry VIII. 
was the first to cultivate the tree extensively and the fame of his 
Kentish cherry orchards spread all over Britain. There are now 
more than two hundred and fifty varieties. Certain sorts are mainly 
utilized for the manufacture of liqueurs, such as kirschwasser, ratafia 
and maraschino. 

The plum is a native of Asia, and it is more than probable that 
the wild varieties which grow along the country lanes of England 
and America are simply degenerate specimens of the original, culti- 
vated tree. It was introduced into England in the fifteenth century 
from France. The variety known as "green gage" takes its name 
from that of the English family that first cultivated it; the "dam- 
^^ son," or damascene, is so called because, as the name 
would imply, it came originally from Damascus. Dried 
plums or prunes are almost as important an article of 
I export from southern Europe as raisins. They are 
I also exported from California. 

The peach was first brought into Europe by the 
Romans, who found it growing wild in Persia. With 
characteristic zeal they soon transplanted it to most of 
Mango. the adjoining countries, where years of culture have 
developed it into an admirable fruit in every rsepect. Peach grow- 
ing has within the last twenty years grown into an enormous in- 
dustry in the United States, particularly in California, portions of 
Michigan, New Jersey, and Delaware. The two main sorts are the 
"cling-stone," in which the succulent portion clings to the stone, and 
the "free-stone," in which the parts readily separate. The nectarine 
is simply a smooth-skinned peach, very delicate in texture. 

The apricot, while native to Armenia, has long grown wild in 
certain of the mountainous districts of Asia. It is an exceedingly 
choice fruit, ripening somewhat earlier than the poach, and is 
widely raised in China and Japan. In England it first found favor 
under the patronage of Henry VIII. This fruit, like the peach, 
pear, and plum, is especially adapted to the soil and climate of 
California and, canned or dried, is now to be found in all markets. 




230 FOOD PBODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

The date tree is the palm of the Hebrew scriptures, symbol of 
helpfulness and triumph, and, since times prehistoric, an object of 
peculiar veneration. Its habitat extends along the confines of the 
great, arid waste of the Sahara, from the Atlantic on the one hand 
to the boundaries of Persia on the other, utilizing that great inter- 
mediate region wherein no other vegetable foods will thrive. Here 
and in the oases no other vegetation greets the eye of the traveler 
excepting the unsympathetic cactus, and none better meets his re- 
quirements for food and for shelter from the sun. There is a South 
American legend that the entire human race sprang, like the 
soldiers from the dragon's teeth sowed by Kadmos, from the seeds 
of the date. Not a few of the Mohammedans of the Levant believe 
that the tree itself sprung spontaneously from the soil at the com- 
mand of their prophet, and it is reverenced accordingly. 

The date palm is slow of growth but lives to a great age, often 
two hundred years. The staminate and the pistillate, or fruiting, 
flowers are borne upon different trees and in the cultivated species 
the latter require to be fertilized artificially. This is accomplished 
by laborers who, after collecting the stamen-bearing flowers, climb 
the fruit-bearing trees and sprinkle the blossoms with pollen. In 
case this is not done the date crop is certain to fail. 

Dates cannot be exported until dried, owing to their rapid fer- 
mentation when freshly plucked. Like raisins, they are dried in 
the sun. They are very nutritious, containing about six per cent of 
protein, twelve per cent of gum, and fifty per cent of sugar, and 
make an excellent substitute for bread. The fresh fruit, under 
pressure, yields a syrup; from the sap or juice of the tree a liquor 
is distUled, while the fibrous parts, as with all palms, are woven 
into mats, ropes, and cordage. Outside of the Orient, the tree is 
cultivated chiefly to supply branches or leaves for Palm Sunday 
and various church ceremonies. These, which are from five to 
twelve feet in length, are peculiarly graceful and lend themselves 
readily to decorative uses. Dates form the principal food of the 
people of Arabia and the date-raising countries of the East, and it 
is said that the first question asked by a Bedouin traveler is, "What 
is the price of dates at Mecca or Medina?" 

The litchi tree is native to southern China, although occasion- 
ally to be seen in the hot houses of Europe. The fruit attains the 
size of a small peach and is sweet and mild in fiavor. In drying, 
the tough, leathery coating separates from the pulp, at the center 



FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE "WOULD. 231 

of which is a small stone. The dried fruit may be obtained at 
almost any large fruit store. 

The mango is the fruit of a tall, tropical tree, native to Asia and 
Brazil. Although sour and acrid in the wild species, it becomes 
under culture sweet, succulent, and the size of a large plum. The 
ripe fruit is too perishable for export and is thus rarely seen in 
temperate regions excepting as a pickle or preserve. It is a valued 
ingredient of the sauce known as chutney. 

" The bread-tree, which, without the ploughshare, yields 
The unreap'd harvest of unftirrow'd fields, 
And halces its unadulterated loaves 
Without a furnace in unpurchased groves, 
And flings ofC famine from Its fertile breast, 
A priceless market for the gathering guest." 

Thus wrote Byron, paying deserved tribute to what has been 
more than once styled "the most useful vegetable in the world." 
The tree is native to the islands of the southern Pacific and is even 
more indispensable to the inhabitants than is the date palm to the 
Mohammedan. The fruit, which is about the size of a melon, is 
most curiously formed from the pulpy carpels of the female 
flowers, and is composed almost wholly of starch. When slowly 
roasted it is a nourishing and delicious substitute for bread, whence 
its name. It is cut into slices and dried in the sun, and is also 
made into a flour. The tree, of which there are two main varieties, 
those bearing seeds and those in which the seeds are abortive, re- 
mains productive during eight months of the year. To tide them- 
selves over the remaining four the natives make and store away a 
sort of paste from the fruit, called make, which is allowed to fer- 
ment before being eaten. 

The value of the bread fruit was first made known to the west- 
ern world by Captain Cook and his fellow explorers, many of whom 
were scientific men. They believed that the tree could be trans- 
planted with success to certain of the British colonies, and at length 
a ship was fitted out under royal patronage for that purpose. 
Lieutenant Bligh (who had formerly accompanied Captain Cook) 
was placed in command, and the good ship Bounty sailed for Ota- 
heite. After much delay, owing to contrary winds, they reached 
the island in October, 1788, closing a voyage of eleven months. The 
following spring they started for home with more than a thousand 
live plants. When three weeks out from land a mutiny occurred, 
and Lieutenant Bligh, with eighteen of his adherents, was sent adrift 



232 FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

in a small boat. The plucky men had only a little food and a few 
instruments of navigation but they managed to reach one of the 
friendly Dutch islands, from which they at length returned to 
England. In 1792 a second expedition was fitted out under Bligh, 
the work was attempted with renewed courage, and, eighteen months 
later, several hundred bread fruit trees were left at St. Vincent and 
other of the West Indies. But, in spite of all care, the plants were 
not readily acclimatized, and it is not probable that the bread fruit 
will ever be seen in other than the tropical countries excepting as a 
hot-house curiosity. 

The tamarind is the pod of a leguminous tree, grown in and 
probably native to both the East and West Indies. The fruit is 
-:a»=- .^^ hard -rinded but composed of a succulent, 
\ ^.^^^V ^"^"^ PiilP) so grateful and refreshing that 

"""■^^^S^^^B^ " ^'"'^'' drank of the cooling draught, 

V.i^^^^^^^fe He would not wish for wine." 

^■^^^^^W^ / In the pineapple the whole inflores- 

cence becomes pulpy, continuous, and 
solidified into a single large fruit. The 
' plant is indigenous to the tropics of the 
western hemisphere, and the fruit was first 
brought into England during the reign of 
Charles 11., probably from Holland, where 
it was introduced somewhat earlier. It is 
now a common hot-house product in Eng- 
land, although it was not thus cultivated 
until the beginning of the eighteenth cen- 
tury. In America, hot-house culture is 
wholly unnecessary as the fruit is so abundantly grown in Florida 
as well as in the West Indies that its transportation is easy and 
inexpensive. 

Other and less important fruits are: the medlar, which is grown 
to a small extent in parts of England and Europe; the jaca or jak, 
a sort of inferior bread fruit; the prickly pear or Indian fig, the 
fruit of a species of cactus; the alligator pear, sweet sop, sour sop, 
custard apple, and mammee apple, all luscious, pulpy fruits native 
to the East and West Indies; the persimmon or date plum, common 
to the south of both America and Europe; monkey's bread, a fieshy, 
acid fruit found upon the western coast of Africa; and the durian 
of the Malayan peninsula and adjacent islands, a fruit the size of 




Bread Fruit. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 233 

the shaddock and which contains a cream-like, nourishing pulp. 
That the number of tropical fruits is legion is proven by the fact that 
at the Columbian Exposition the little country of Siam exhibited 
something like one hundred and fifty varieties. Nearly all were 
preserved in a transparent syrup, many of them having been carved 
by the marvelously patient little Siamese women into intricate 
semblances of flowers. Our various and familiar fruits of the melon 
family, the pumpkin and squash, are universally prepared and eaten 
as vegetables. This is also the case with egg-plant, which belongs 
to the nightshade family and is closely allied to the common 
potato. The olive, so universally is it utilized as a condiment or for 
the oU contained, is mentioned as one of our fruits simply from a 
botanical standpoint. 

Nuts differ from the other fruits both in appearance and in 
nutritive value. The succulent fruits contain quantities of water, 
very little protein, valuable salts, almost no fats, and varying quan- 
tities of starch and sugar. The nuts, on the other hand, contain 
quantities of nutriment in a highly concentrated form, and are 
composed chiefly of the oils and proteids, with very little of water 
or of the carbohydrates. 

One of the commonest as well as one of the most ancient of 
nuts is the acorn. Both the oak and its unattractive fruit were 
ages ago utilized by the primitive Greeks, and were at a correspond- 
ingly early date sacred to the Druidical worship of Britain and 
Wales. Since the time of the early Britons acorns have been used 
for fattening swine and have rarely found favor as human food ex- 
cepting in times of famine. Then, however, they have taken the 
place of bread and meat very satisfactorily. Froebel, the originator 
of the kindergarten system of education, was more than once com- 
pelled to send his little band of pupils into the woods to gather 
acorns with which to piece out the all too scanty dinner. 

Chestnuts, both the large and small varieties, are considered 
quite a luxurious food by the peasants in the south of France and 
in the Mediterranean islands, particularly when freshly roasted. 
They are more farinaceous and less oily than nuts in general, and 
from them is made a cheap and nourishing flour. The tree is native 
to Europe, possibly also to America. 

The walnut is a hard-shelled, drupaceous fruit, native to Asia 
Minor and Greece, but now cultivated in all temperate regions. 
The butternut, which is closely related, is somewhat more oleagin- 



S34 f 6ot) PbotitrcTs OP iRi. wofeLD. 

ous. The hickory nut, also of the same family, is native to North 
America, from whence the nuts are exported to the European coun- 
tries. The pecan is a species of hickory, to which it is much supe- 
rior in flavor and texture. It is grown in the southern portion of 
the United States and in Texas. Beechnuts possess an agreeable 
flavor but are rarely, if ever, eaten as dessert nuts owing to their 
small size. They are not easily procurable excepting in country 
places. 

The hazel grows wild in America, in England, northern Europe, 
and Asia. The filbert is a variety of hazel cultivated specially for 
the table and is much larger and richer of flavor. The word filbert 
is a corruption of the word "full-beard," the name first applied to 
distinguish the cultivated from the common wild species, although 
the poet Gower tells us that 

" PWUis 

Was shape Into a nutte-tree, 

That all men it might see; 

And after Phillis, PhUberd 

This tree was cleped." 
The almond, a favorite table and pastry nut, belongs to the 
peach family. It is frequently referred to in the Bible and branches 
of almond blossoms are still used in certain Jewish religious cere- 
monies. Only the sweet almond is used as a dessert nut, although 
oil is extracted from both sweet and bitter. The sweet variety is 
now grown in California, as well as in the Mediterranean countries. 
The tree is indigenous to northern Africa, to portions of Europe, 
and to Asia Minor. 

It has been said that "the most precious inheritance of the 
Singhalese is his ancestral garden of cocoanuts," the fruit of the 
cocoa palm and an important article of food in almost every por- 
tion of the tropics. The nuts, which grow in large clusters, are each 
enclosed in a thick coating of tough, elastic fibre, which, owing to 
its bulk, is usually taken off before the nuts are packed for ship- 
ment. The nucleus or kernel, which is white and meaty in consist- 
ency, is hollow, enclosing a quantity of delicate, milky liquid. 
When green the whole nucleus is soft, pulpy, and very digestible. 
During the ripening process the meat becomes toughened, owing to 
the development of the cellulose, and on that account the ripened 
meat is often cooked, with rice, by the people of the warmer coun- 
tries. In Europe and America the nut is mainly used, after being 
grated or shredded, in the making of sweetmeats, puddings and cakes. 



POOD PRODUCTS OF TfiE WORLD. 535 

It is unnecessary to say that the meat, when dried and shredded, 
should contain the entire oil of the nut, but in not a few instances 
it is extracted and paraflSne or glycerine is added to give it the 
proper "finish." 

For many years the Dutch have carried on an immense trade 
with the Samoan Islands in the dried nut, called "copra." This is 
shipped to Holland, where the oil is expressed. In Ceylon, after 
the oil is extracted, the residue, called "poonao," is pressed into 
cakes. This poonac is similar to the oil cakes made in America 
from the oil of the linseed or cotton seed, and is equally valued as 
an animal food. 

The Brazil nut is, as its name indicates, native to portions of 
South Am^erica, where it is commonly known as the "juvia." The 
tree, whose seeds form so important an article of commerce, grows 
from one hundred to one hundred and thirty feet in height, and its 
fruit consists of a hard shell, about the size of a child's head, en- 
closing from eighteen to twenty-four triangular seeds. These are 
particularly fine and creamy in texture and are rich in oil, but are 
liable to deterioriate in flavor if kept too long. The large nuts fall 
from the tree when ripe, but without releasing the seeds, and are 
then gathered by the natives, who break them open. Humboldt re- 
lates that the natives dare not go into the woods during the sfeason 
when the nuts are ripe and falling without 
r protecting the head and shoulders with a 
buckler of wood, owing to the great size of 
the nuts and the height from which they 
Tamarind. fall. 

The peanut has already been referred to in the chapter on vege- 
table oils. It furnishes nourishment in a concentrated and avail- 
able form, and is no less valuable for the oil contained than for 
the flour or meal into which it may be converted. 

Other nuts of less importance to the peoples of temperate re- 
gions are: the bread nut of Jamaica; the Pekea nut of tropical 
America; the kola nut of Africa, which possesses the properties of 
a stimulating food; the cashew nut, which is utilized mainly for its 
flavor; and the Souari nut of British Guiana. The latter is large, 
sweet and delicate, resembling an almond in flavor. The edible 
seeds of several species of pine are also eaten. The pistachio nut 
has already been mentioned as a flavoring agent. The sapucaya 
nut of Brazil resembles both the Brazil nut and the almond in its 




23e FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

properties. The peculiarly shaped receptacles which contain the 
nuts are called by the natives "monkey pots" because the monkeys 
are known to be extravagantly fond of the seeds. The candle-nut 
of the South Sea islands is rarely used excepting, as a condiment. 

There has been so much discussion recently concerning a "nat- 
ural food" system of diet and it has been so strenuously advocated 
by certain followers both iij^ England and America, that it may be 
well to speak of it here. Its exponents lay great stress upon the 
assumption that it is, to quote their own words, "a natural diet or 
non-starch system." The following is quoted from the oflScial 
statement of the principles of the Natural Pood Society: "The 
Natural Pood Society is founded in the belief that the food of 
primeval man consisted of the fruit and nuts of tropical climes, 
spontaneously produced; that on these foods man was (and may 
again become) at least as free from disease as the animals are in a 
state of nature. We urge that all fruits in their season, including 
figs, dates, bananas, prunes, raisins, and apples, fresh and dried, 
each of many varieties, be substituted for bread and other grain 
foods and starch vegetables; and experience convinces us that this 
course wiU be found by a brief experience highly beneficial, alike to 
to the meat eater and the vegetarian. . . . All persons about to 
experiment with the non-starch food system are at first urged not 
to use nuts, but to use instead whatever animal food they have 
been accustomed to. The central feature of this system consists in 
abstention from bread, cereals, and starchy vegetables, and the lib- 
eral use of food fruits." These theorists also claim that "the cereals 
and vegetables are unnatural and disease-producing foods, and the 
chief cause of nervous prostration and broken-down health," and 
assert, equally without any scientific proof, that a diet containing 
starchy foods "ruins the blood vessels [in what way they do not 
state], irritates and inflames the system, and makes men prema- 
turely old." 

The fruits most urgently advocated are figs, dates, raisins, prunes 
and bananas. Yet these very bananas are composed almost wholly 
of starch, and figs, dates and raisins of sugar, which is dietetically 
almost the same thing. In fact, all starch is converted into glucose, 
either within or without the system, before assimilation can take 
place. Banana meal and chestnut flour are constantly used in all 
their recipes, although, from a non-starch standpoint, why they are 
not just as unwholesome as wheaten flour it is difficult to understand. 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 



237 




Filberts. 



In cases in which the fruitarians find it difficult or impossible to 
digest the required quantity of nuts, milk, eggs and meat are sub- 
stituted, their principles in the latter regard differing from those of 
the vegetarians. 

But, supposing the non-starch theory to be perfectly scientific; 
supposing that none of the fruits contained starch or sugar, such a 
dietary would be wholly inadequate ..to the needs of the system. 
The nuts furnish enough of the proteids 
to buUd up the tissues of the human sys- 
tem but without the starchy foods how 
can it do its work? A parallel case would 
be that of keeping an engine in perfect 
repair but furnishing it with too little fuel. 
A very useless machine would be the re- 
sult. Fortunately for the health of the 
non-starch enthusiasts, their theory is not 
only unscientific but impractical. But it 
is worthy of attention because of the in- 
creasing numbers who follow it wholly or 
in part. I have in mind one family the 
members of which have continued this diet with almost absolute 
strictness for more than two years. All have maintained average 
or good health, which alone is sufficient proof that the diet meets 
the practical, working necessities of the human system, providing, 
of course, that the digestion is equal to the strain of assimilating 
quantities of nuts. The fruitarian doctrinists are doing good ser- 
vice in calling our attention to the value of nuts as a staple food, to 
be properly eaten, not as a dessert after a hearty meal but in the 
place of meats and other articles rich in protein. But the name 
"non-starch" system is entirely misleading, and the theory will never 
command respect untU put, somehow, upon a scientific basis. 

At the Columbian Exposition the tropical fruits, all of which 
were preserved in some manner owing to the difficulty of transport- 
ing them in a fresh state, were displayed in the Agricultural build- 
ing, while fresh fruits of both the temperate and sub-tropical re- 
gions v/ere placed in the state buildings and in the pomological sec- 
tion of the Horticultural building. Siam, Johore, the states of 
South America, the islands of both the East and West Indies, par- 
ticularly Jamaica and Trinidad, exhibited among other fruits, pre- 
served bananas and banana meal and flour. Algeria and Uruguay 



238 POOD PBOOtJCTS OF tRS WORLD. 

each sent preserved fruits, among the finest being preserved whole 
flgs and bananas from the latter country. The French Colonies 
sent preserves and native nuts; the Orange Free State, jellies, dried 
fruits, and marmalades; guava jelly and various preserved fruits 
entered the lists from Porto Rico and our own Flprida. Mexico 
was represented by dried and canned fruits but chiefly by liqueurs, 
some of which were distilled from the cherry, orange, quince and 
cocoanut. Costa Bica, Tunis and British Guiana each sent a large 
quota of their native nuts, and fruits, among them the mammee 
apple, mango, guava, lime, pomegranate, banana, papaw, fig, date, 
pineapple, oUve, and tamarind, the cocoanut, almond, pistache, 
Souari and cashew nuts. 

A most remarkable exhibit of the entire citrus family of fruits 
was placed in the Horticultural building by southern California. 
There were the Malta, mandarin, navel and seedless varieties of 
oranges, Sicily and Lisbon lemons, the citron, and many varieties of 
grape fruits and limes. On the Midway Plaisance a large space was 
devoted to the exhibit of the growing fruits, among them another 
citrus exhibit from California. Apples, pears, quinces, and grapes 
were exhibited in abundance, not the least noteworth^Hbeing a dis- 
play sent from Washington. The exhibit of apples was particularly 
large and represented nearly all of our states. To the visitor who 
believed that apples could be grown only in Michigan, Ohio, New 
York and a few of our northern states the splendid specimens sent 
from Arkansas, from Missouri and from the Northwest were a con- 
tinual surprise. Nearly all countries exhibited preserves and mar- 
malades while the finest of jellies, in most lavish array, were sent 
from the canning factories and home kitchens of our own states. 
Nothing is more delicate than a crystalline, quivering, fruit jelly, 
and nothing more surely tests the skill of the housewife. It is made 
possible through the existence of a vegetable jelly or pectin, which 
is one of the carbohydrates and an almost universal constituent of 
our fruits. 



CHAPTER XXV. 



SUQAKS AN'D STARCHES. 




^^(— .- U G A R S; starches, gums, and celluloses comprise 
/ /JJt\' *^® principal carbohydrates. Of these the only ones 
^ V^-'^'-^V °' special nutritive value are the sugars and starches, 
J^aj^L \ ^^^^ closely allied chemically and having much the 
*!^iRftiOi«Jr"l same effect, upon the human system. They are the 
non-nitrogenous elements, furnishing heat for warm- 
ing the body as well as potential energy for doing its 
daily work. If more of the carbohydrates are taken 
into the system than are required for its daily uses 
they are transformed into fat and are thus stored 
away to be drawn upon when necessity arises. This 
fat is accumulated in the liver as well as distributed 
throughout and upon the muscular tissues. The 
carbohydrates thus, either directly or indirectly, pre- 
serve the muscular tissues of the body from waste. 
Scarcely any other food substance is more uni- 
versal throughout the vegetable world than sugar. Like starch, it 
is composed of carbon atoms mingled with a varying proportion of 
hydrogen and oxygen atoms, hence the name, carbohydrates. But, 
unlike the starches, sugar is one of the most easily assimilated of 
foods, owing to its extreme solubility. From childhood to old age 
its use by man is universal, in spite of the "decayed teeth" bugaboo 
held up to children and the rheumatism threat that assails their 
elders. As a constituent of mother's milk it is consumed by the 
tiniest babe. A liking for sweets in some form extends even into 



240 FOOD PEODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 

the animal kingdom, although whether it is not often a cultivated 
taste in that realm is a mooted question. The bird loves it, the dog 
eats it greedily, the horse neighs and teases for it, even the little 
green chameleon accepts it in lieu of a spider; it is the nectar of 
our butterflies and the food of our bees, the latter rendering it 
back to us in doubly distilled sweetness and value. Sugar in some 
form is as. wholly indispensable in the dietaries of this animate 
world as any other food substance could well become. 

The word sugar refers in ordinary speech simply to cane 
sugar, or at least to some member of the sucroses or cane-sugar 
group. This is inaccurate, owing to the diverse sources of sugars, 
not all varieties of which are used as food, but which may still ,be 
roughly divided into the cane-sugar and the glucose groups. 

The cane-sugar group comprises the sugar cane, the sugar 
maple, that which may be extracted from the root of the beet, car- 
rot, turnip, and, in fact, of nearly all vegetables, of sorghum or Chi- 
nese cane, the young shoots of maize, chestnut buds, the melon and 
pumpkin, several species of palm, and the juices of tropical fruits, 
such as the papaw and banana. Melitose is a variety of cane sugar 
extracted from cotton seeds and from a species of Australian euca- 
lyptus; glycyrrhizine, the sugar of the liquorice root; mycose, a sac- 
charine -constituent of the edible fungi; melizitose, a cane sugar 
found in the manna of the larch; lactose, sugar of mUk; and mal- 
tose, a crystalline sugar produced from starch by the action of dias- 
tase of malt. This diastase is the ferment produced by the germi- 
nation of the grain of the barley. 

The principal glucose sugars are dextrose or grape sugar, and 
leyijLosepr fruit sugar. Glucose is also largely' manufactured from 
starch, when it TsHknown also as starch sugar. Glucose may be 
divided into its constituent parts, when the granular portion is 
known commercially as grape sugar and the fluid or syrup 
as glucose. Honey, which contains both cane sugar ' and 
glucose, possesses characteristics peculiar to itself. Mannite is 
still another kind and is found in the manna ash, in celery, 
in onions, certain sea-weeds, and fungi, in the sap from apple 
and pear trees, and even in the nests and cocoons of a species 
of Syrian beetle (trehalose). The sugar extractable from the 
berries of the rowan or mountain ash tree is known chemically 
as sorbin; that from acorns as quercite; that from a species of pine, 
pinite. Muscle-sugar or inosite is present in the tissues of the 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 241 

human system, particularly in the muscles of the heart and lungs. 
Saccharine, a chemical constituent of one of the coal-tar products, 
is the only artificial sweet ever yet produced. 

Only a small proportion of these sugars are used for food, a few 
being considered unfit or at least undesirable, owing to their origin, 
whUe others are not procurable because the extraction of them 
them would be unprofitable from a commercial point of view. 

Those in common use are cane, maple, and beet root sugar, 
glucose or grape sugar, honey, palm sugar, and sorghum. Of all 
these honey is the most luxurious, the most precious, and of far the 
greatest antiquity. In fact, untU the beginning of the sixteenth 
century it was almost the only sweet known and quite the only one 
generally used, perhaps due to the fact that it could be used for 
food without going through a more or less elaborate process of 
preparation. In the old Testament Palestine is referred to as "a 
land flowing with milk and honey," the greatest boon of richness 
and nourishment that could be desired. To this day the inhabitants 
of India, of Arabia, and other parts of Asia combine both honey and 
milk into a semi-liquid food, than which nothing more acceptable 
can be offered to either guest or traveler. The ancient Greeks im- 
mortalized in their literature the honey of Hymettus and Corinth, 
although the bees of classic lore, no wiser than those of to-day, oc- 
casionally selected their honey from the nectaries of poisonous 
flowers. Xenophon relates that once a number of soldiers who were 
encamped in a village near Trebezona, in which there were bee- 
hives, became violently ill after eating of the honey combs. "Not 
one of them could stand erect. Those who had swallowed but little 
looked very like drunken men; those who had eaten much were like 
mad men, and some lay as if they were dying. And thus they lay 
in such numbers as on a field of battle after defeat. And the con- 
sternation was great. Yet no one was found to have died; all re- 
covered their senses about the same hour the following day, and on 
the third or fourth day they rose up as if they had suffered from 
the drinking of poison." The Romans used honey as an ingredient 
of their beverages, a custom which continued throughout most of 
Europe even beyond those fifteenth century days of "piment" and 
"mead." The national cake of Holland, called "deventer," is made 
from a mixture of Koneyj fruit, and^£ur. 

Honey is the only sweet that comes to our tables in its pure and 
natural form, neither added to nor subtracted from by any chem- 



242 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 



ical process whatever. Whether the nectar itself, after being taken 
from the flower, undergoes any change in the vital laboratory of ther 
bee is as yet an unsettled question. In composition it contains 
both dextrose and levulose, maunite, small quantities of cane sugar, 
wax, mucilage, mineral matter, and pollen. It varies in color and 
flavor according to the sources from which gathered, the best of the 
United States coming from the white clover and the flowers of the 
bass-wood (the linden tree). That from buckwheat blossoms is 

darker and less delicately flavored. 
The honey from the vale of Chamou- 
ni is noted for its good color and 
fragrance; that from Hymettus, 
Oreece, gathered from the wild 
thyme, has a somewhat coarse flavor, 
by no means as ambrosial as tlfe pro- 
duct of the average American ho^ey 
farm. 

The sugar cane {saccharum offici- 
narum) is a tall, strong-stemmed 
grass, growing to a height of ten or 
twelve feet and crowned with long, 
feathery plumes of flowers. It has 
been cultivated in both India and 
China for probably two thousand 
years, and the art of extracting and 
boiling down the juice from the cane 
was practiced in both countries as 
early as the seventh century. Dios- 
corides referred to it in the flrst cen- 
tury, and Alexander the Great men- 
tioned a kind of honey made from a 
sweet-stemmed Indian reed, undoubt- 
edly meaning the cane. The Arabs 
brought the knowledge of this cane to the Spaniards who in their 
turn carried it to the West Indies. From there it was introduced 
into the United States and was first cultivated about 1751 by a band 
of Jesuits, located near New Orleans. The first sugar mill, a crude 
and inadequate affair in which all the power "was supplied by cattle, 
was erected in 1758. Sixty years later the production in Louisiana 
alone reached twenty-five thousand hogsheads annually, an enor- 




FOOD PKODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 243 

- mous output considering the fact that steam was not used in the 
mills until 1822. While the sugar industry has since reached almost 
fabulous proportions, at no time has the supply appreciably ex- 
ceeded the demand. From being considered a luxury, as was the 
case in Europe during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, sugar 
has come to be an indispensable and therefore common food. 

Not more than four varieties of cane are now cultivated in the 

■ West Indies, the quality of each depending mainly upon soil, climate, 
and methods of culture. The Sandwich Islands also produce quan- 
tities of sugar. Cane juice contains, on an average, eighteen per 
cent of sugar, more than seventy per cent of water, small quan- 
tities of pectin or vegetable jeUy, of albumin, and of mineral mat- 
ters. Says Johnston, referring to the almost universal habit among 
the natives of eating the raw cane, "the nutritive property of the 
raw juice is due to the fact that it contains, besides the sugar, a 
considerable portion of gluten- as *ell as mineral substances, which 
are present in all our staple forms of vegetable foods." 

The process of making our granulated sugar is comparatively 
simple. The juice is first expressed from the cane by crushing the 
stalks between a series of heavy rollers, when it is clarified and 
boiled down to the required density in large copper pans. As the 
sjmip granulates it is removed from the flre and, after cooling, the 
fluid part is drained away from the crystals. This raw sugar, 
called muscovado (from a Spanish word meaning "more finished") is 
then sent to the sugar refiners. It is scarcely ever found in the 
markets now, owing to the universal demand for a white, absolutely 
refined, granulated sugar. The process of refining sugar by claying 
was first used in Brazil. It is related that it was discovered by the 
agency of a hen which, with shockingly muddy feet, one day walked 
over a pot of sugar. The crystals that were touched by the clay 
were seen to be much whiter than the bulk of the sugar and a dis- 
covery of considerable importance was the result. The finest fla- 
vored cane sugar consists of the golden brown crystals that are 
manufactured in British Guiana and much used in England. The 
high tariff imposedon thaf quality has thus far effectually debarred 
it from America. 

In 1747 Margraaf, a German, discovered in the course of his ex- 
periments that the sugar extracted from the root of the beet was 
identical with that of the sugar cane. He advised its cultivation 
for the extraction of sugar but no attempt in thjs direction was 
17 ^ 



244 FOOD FKODaCTS OF THE WOBLD. 

made until nearly a half century afterward. Then, owing to the 
crude methods used, a yield of only two or three per cent of sugar 
was obtained and the attempt was abandoned. Finally, under 
Napoleon I., the price of sugar advanced to six francs a pourfST^X 
prize of a million francs~was then offered to any one who sKould 
successfully manufacture sugar from plants of home growth. After 
many trials it was found possible to obtain from four to five per 
cent of refined sugar from the beet, and success was assured. From 
Prance the cultivation of the sugar beet extended into Germany, 
Poland, and Russia, the latter country producing to-day vast quan- 
tities of our best sugar. The Marinski sugar manufactory on the 
banks of the river Dnieper is one of the largest in the world. 

Not long after the Civil War the industry was introduced into 
the United States. The result, while in no way reaching the limit 
of its possibilities, has more than justified every effort made by its 
promoters. At present the area devoted to sugar beet raising in 
the United States is claimed to be larger than that so utilized in 
any other country. The crop is a profitable one, for, besides jdeld- 
ing an income of forty dollars per acre, the. farmer may receive 
back if he wishes, at a merely nominal price, fully fifty per cent of 
his original amount of beets in the residuum pulp. This is what re- 
mains after the juice has been extracted and is valuable both as a 
cattle food . and as a fertilizer. To be sure, beets require skillful 
cultivation and must be denied neither labor nor expense if a good 
crop is to be secured. But, even at a cost of several dollars per 
acre for cultivating, the crop is still more profitable than either 
wheat or corn. The percentage of sugar in the beeFdf our western 
prairies, particularly in Nebraska, has been as high as twelve per 
cent, and fifteen, it is believed, will be yielded in the near future. 
The largest factory is the Oxnard in Nebraska. 

The extraction of beet sugar from the cruder root is a much 
more complicated process than the extraction of the juice from the 
sugar cane, because the juice abounds in impurities. It contains 
gummy matters, albumin, acids, and minerals. The juice is ex- 
tracted both by pressure and by diffusion, and both lime and charcoal 
filters are employed. The refining process, which is carried on in 
large refineries, is identical with that used with the raw sugar of 
the cane, the chemical properties of both being identical. Thus far 
it hfe been impossible to produce a good syrup from beet juice. 

The maple sugar industry is almost exclusively confined to the 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 



245 



United States and Canada. It is a cane sugar, produced by boUing 
down the sap from the maple tree (aeer saocharinum), the sap being 
collected by tapping or boring the bark of the tree just before the 
buds start in the spring. The ideal sugar weather alternates warm 
days with frosty nights. The length of the season is always uncer- 
tain, for a few days of warmth will suffice to start the buds and 
foliage, after which the yield of sap is inferior in quality. The sap 
needs no purification and is prepared directly for the market 
by a simple boiling down process, conducted over large fires near 
the "camp" in the woods. The sap is reduced, either 
by boiling in kettles or evaporating in pans, to a 
thick molasses, delicious of flavor, or to a sugar 
which is solidified in cakes of various sizes. The 
principal states which manufacture maple sugar are 
Vermont, New Hampshire, Michigan, Ohio, and 
Pennsylvania. 

Sorghum is a sweet extracted from the stem of 
the Guinea corn or great millet (sorghum sacehar- 
atum)^^ It has long been cultivated in China and 
India, but the molasses is so inferior in flavor to the 
cane sugar of Europe and America that it has never 
found much favor in those lands. The process of ex- 
tracting is similar to that used- for the juice of the 
sugar cane, and generally the whole product is con- 
Sugar Beet, verted into a thick molasses. The plant yields about 
two and one-half per cent of flesh-forming and about eleven per 
cent of heat-producing material. 

Palm sugar is the inspissated juice of the palm tree, princi- 
pally the wild date, although the cocoanut and several other varie- 
ties are also used. The sap or "toddy" is collected from the tree 
during the three winter months of November, December and Janu- 
ary, and is boiled down by a crude native process into an unrefined 
sugar known as "jaggery." When refined it is equal to the best 
cane sugar. It is rarely met with even in the European markets, 
although occasionally imported into America by sugar refining 
companies. 

The making of starch sugar, known commercially as glucose or 
grape sugar, is one of our most important and least appreciated. in- 
dustries. In Europe potato starch is generally employed, in Amer^ 
ica that from Indian corn or maize. The process of converting the 




246 FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WORLD. 

starch into sugar is comparatively simple and open to no objections 
on the score of either cleanliness or health. It is first made soluble 
by the action of dilute sulphuric acid; the acid is neutralized by 
lime and is precipitated as sulphate of lime. This is separated 
from the liquid by filtration, the liquid is then filtered through 
a bed of charcoal and concentrated to the required density. This 
process gives us the glucose of the trade world. Although called 
grape sugar, this is not the purest form of grape sugar, the best ex- 
ample of which is found in the white, granular exudations of sugar 
from the surface of well dried grapes or raisins. 

Starch sugar is produced much more cheaply than any other, 
for, while our sugar plants yield from four to fifteen per cent of 
their bulk in refined sugar, starch yields fifty per cent. Then, too, 
the sugar plants require a maximum of labor and expense if their 
cultivation is to be successful. But glucose has not found favor in 
our households because its sweetening properties are so inferior to 
those of our cane sugars and, since it has always posed as an adult- 
erant, it has fallen into disrepute. Its good consistency and its 
non-committal fiavor have caused it to be used extensively in 
adulterating honey, syrups, and candies. In some apiaries even the 
unsuspecting bees are fed upon it, as a cheap and convenient sub- 
stitute for fiowers. Besides this it is used in the manufacture of 
liquors. 

The Japanese, who realize better than the western nations the 
value of glucose as a food, have long manufactured it from the 
starch of barley, and have given it the attractive name of barley 
honey. It forms part of the daily food in every Japanese house- 
hold. Combined with rice fiour it makes , a sweetm eat far more 
healthful and delicious than most of our confectionery. Glucose 
itself is not only wholesome and nutritious but even more easily 
assimilated than the cane sugars, which are, in fact, themselves 
changed into glucose by the dilute acids of the human system be- 
fore they are digested. It is to be regretted that glucose does not 
appear upon our tables, perhaps under the more attractive name of 
maize, wheat, or cassava honey, that its usefulness as an adulterant 
might be forgotten on account of its value as a food. There are two 
obstacles in the way of this use, one, the fact of its heavy, syrupy 
consistency, and the other, because of its low sweetening power. 
The chemist tells us that glucose contains one molecule more of 
water than cane sugar and, until that is extracted, which at present 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOBLD. 



247 



chemistry is unable to accomplish, it is impossible to convert it into 
sugar. The other objection may be more easily met because of the 
comparatively recent discovery of a substance known as saccharine. 
This was produced by a German chemist, Pahlberg, from coal-tar 
naphtha, and is the only artificial sweet ever yet produced. Its 
sweetening properties are remarkable. One part 
in one thousand parts of water will produce a 
distinctly sweet taste whUe one or two parts 
added to one thousand parts of glucose will ren- 
der it as sweet as the cane sugars. Saccharine 
itself is two hundred and thirty times as sweet 
as cane sugar. Its use, however, is not to be ad- 
vocated, as it is not assimilated, passing from 
the system unchanged. It thus in no way con- 
tributes to the building up or the maintaining 
of the tissues of the body, hence, it is a ques- 
tionable article of food. 

There were immense displays of cane sugar 
at the Columbian Exposition, the most important 
being from Eussia, Italy, Mexico, and the United 
States. British Guiana sent quantities of pure, 
amber-colored crystals, guiltless of any bleach- 
"ing process and unrobbed of their delicate and 
characteristic flavor. Hundreds of gallons of 
Sago Mortar. delicious maple syrup paid their tribute to Can- 
ada and to our own maple sugar producing states. Palm sugar was 
sent in a crude state from Ceylon. Florida exhibited glucose made 
from the root of the cassava, and Mexico sent a similar glucose 
from the agave or century plant. This, known as agave honey^jpas 
neither as delicate nor as clear as starch sugar, probably owing to 
the crude method of making it. Saccharine was exhibited in pow- 
ders and in small tablets, particularly recommended for sweeten- 
ing tea and coffee, as well as jams and jellies. This is, properly 
speaking, no more than an adulterant. Honey, tons of sweetness, 
was exhibited from our different states and from other countries as 
well. From Hymettus, Greece, was sent honey made from the 
flowers of the wild thyme, but not even its classic name could save 
it from criticism, for it was dark in color, strong in flavor, and no^ 
unlike our poorer grades of buckwheat honey. Holland sent quan 
titles of their national honey cake. 




248 FOOD PEODUOTS OF THE WOBLD. 

Starch is quite extensively distributed throughout the vege- 
table kingdom. It is present in nearly aU. tubers, in the cereals 
and legumes, in the trunks of various species of palm, and in many 
of the fruits and nuts, the bread fruit, banana, peanut, chestnut, 
and others. It exists in the form of minute granules and is always 
most abundant as the plant reaches maturity. These granules may 
be separated in most cases by a simple mechanical process. 

The principal starches of our commerce are obtained from pota- 
toes, wheat, corn, rice, the root of the cassava, the arrowroot, and from 
the stem or trunk of the sago palm. In Europe potatoes are most 
largely employed. After being thoroughly cleaned they are re- 
duced to a pulp and the cellulose and albuminoids are separated by 
washing, leaving the starch granules to settle to the bottom of the 
vat, whence they are easily drawn off and dried. The extraction of 
the starch from wheat is a more difficult matter, owing to the pres- 
ence of gluten, which serves to bind the constituents of the grain. 
It may be procured by a series of washings but is usually accom- 
plished by a fermentative process which, through the action of the 
acids developed, destroys the tenacious properties of the gluten. 
Maize or Indian corn, mainly utilized for starch in America, con- 
tains so little gluten that the separation of the starch contained is 
a comparatively easy matter. That, combined with the low price of 
the grain, renders corn starch one of our cheapest cereal prepara- 
tions. Kice starch is more commonly used in the Orient than 
among the western nations and is procured by both methods. 

The various tubers, cereals, and starch-bearing fruits have 
already been described, as well as the cassava, from the root of 
.which the tapioca of commerce is prepared. Of even greater im- 
portance, particularly in its native lands, is the starch of the sago 
palm, known to the trade world as sago. The entire trunk of this 
palm is filled with a nourishing starch which is in greatest abun- 
dance just before the palm puts forth its blossoms. In case it is 
not taken at this stage the sago is absorbed as nourishment for the 
fruit, and the trunk becomes almost empty and quite useless. The 
trees do not blossom until their growth, requiring twelve or fifteen 
years, is completed and are thus of considerable size when cut 
down. The center of the trunk is of a cheesy consistency and the 
starch or sago, after being scraped out in its crude form, is sepa- 
rated from its fibrous constituents by a crushing or grating process, 
followed by a series of washings. A section of the trunk of a sago 



FOOD PRODUCTS OF THE WOKLD. 219 

palm containing the crude sago, and showing but a thin outec bark, 
was sent to the Columbian Exposition from Siam. There were 
also exhibited the crude metal rasps used for scraping it from the 
trunk and a mortar for crushing, fashioned from a hollowed section 
of the trunk itself. 

Mr. Crawford, in his history of the Indian Archipelago, has esti- 
mated that a single acre of land, supporting four hundred and 
thirty-flve palms, will produce 120,500 pounds of sago. This is not 
incredible when a single, thrifty, fully grown tree may yield six or 
seven hundred pounds. Excepting the banana, it is probably true 
that no other plant or vegetable is capable of yielding so great au 
amount of nourishment for man from a given extent of land. In 
certain parts of the East sago forms almost the exclusive food of 
the native peoples. 




INDEX. 



Absinthe, loe. 

Acorn, 2^ 

Agave honey, 247. 

Agricultural building, 2; arcliitect- 
ural decoration of, 3; exhibits con- 
tained in, 4. 

Agriculture, department of at Wash- 
ington, 13; importance of, 5. 

Alligator pear, 232. 

Almond, 234; flavoring extract of, 
105; oUof,146. 

Allspice, 87. 

Ame, 161. 

American cheese, 129, 130. 

Anchovy, 63, 64, 101. 

Anise, 91. 

Anisette,' 106. 

Anthropological building, 2. 

Apple, 217, 221; custard, 232; mam- 
mee, 232. 

Apricot, 229. 

ArroT^root, 200. 

Artichoke, 210; Jerusalem, 199. 

Asparagus, 211. 

BACTEKIA, U2, 122, 123. 

Bacon, 20. 

Banana, 227. 

Banbury cheese, 126. 

Barberry, 218. 

Barley, 155. 

Barley honey, 246. 

Basil, 92. 

Bass, 65. 

Basswood tree, 242. 

Bay leaves, 93. 

Bean, 1^189. 

Beechiiut,234. 

Beef, how to select, 19; pickUnf and 



curing of, 33. 

Beef brose, 157. 

Beet, 203, 210. 

Beet sugar, 243. 

Blackberry, 225. 

Blood, 44. 

Blueberry, 226. 

Blueflsh, 61. 

Boar's head, 45. 

Borage, 215. 

Borax, 32. 

Borecole, 212. 

Bosch, 132. 

Bouillon, 80. 

Bouill-abaisse, 80. 

Brazil nut, 235. 

Bread, aerated, 169; Boston brown, 
169; germ, 169; Graham, 169; leav- 
ened, 168; salt rising, 169; of early 
Britons, Egyptians, Greeks, Ro- 
mans, Syrians, 163, 164; of primi- 
tive peoples, 165. 

Bread fruit, 231. 

Bread nut, 235. 

Brie cheese, 128. 

Brine, 32. 

BroccoU, 213. 

Brussels sprouts, 212. 

Buckwheat, 158. 

Butter, ancient and modem meth- 
ods of making, 117-119; bacteria in, 
122; how to secure uniformity, 121 ; 
inferiority of, in public institu- 
tions, 120 ; liability to infection, 119 ; 
of southern markets, 135. 

Butterine, exhibits of, 136 ; grades of, 
133; history of, 131; hygienic and 
food value of, 135; legislation 
against, 134; methods of making, 



INDEX. 



132, 133; tax upon, 136. 
Butternut, 233. 

Cabbage, 2U. 

Cacbio cavallo (cheese) , 127. 

Camembert cheese, 128. 

Camomile, 205. 

Candle nut, 101,236. 

Cane sugar, 212. 

Capers, 97. 

Carachi, 101. 

Caraway, 91. 

Carbohydrates, 11, 12. 

Cardamon seeds, 89. 

Cardoon, 215. 

Carrot, 202. 

Cashew nut, 235. 

Cassareep, 101,200. 

Cassava, sweet, 201; bitter, 102, 200. 

Cassava bread, 165. 

Cassia, 88. 

Caviare, 61. 

Cauliflower, 213. 

Cayenne, see chili. 

Celeriac, 209. 

Celery, 92, 209. 

Cellulose, 11. 

Cereals, antiquity and origin of, 150; 
composition of, 165; exhibits of , 152. 

Chard, Swiss, 210. 

Charqui, 21. 

Chartreuse, 106. 

Cheddar cheese, 126. 

Cheese, bacterial culture in, 121; pro- 
cess of making, 123, 121; nutritive 
value of, 129. 

Cherry, 229. 

Chervil, 92. 

Cheshire cheese, 126. 

Chestnut, 233. 

Chica, 153. 

Chicken, 50. 

Chickpea, 190. 

Chicory, see endive. 

Chili, 100. 

Chives, 211. 

Chutney, 101. 

Cider, 222. 

Cinnamon, 87. 



Citron, 220. 

Clam, 71. 

Clover, white, 212. 

Cloves, 86. 

Coal fish, 63. 

Cocoa bean, 118. 

Cocoa butter, 118. 

Cocoa nut, 231. 

Cocoa nut oil, 116. 

Cod,>61; toques and sounds, 62. 

Comfrey, 215. 

Condiments, antiquity of, 83, 81; classifica- 
tion of, 85; hTgitrnir vnlBr nf,.fff; exhibi- 
tion of, 107; medieval use of, 81. 

Consomme soup, 80. 

Cookery, aboriginal, 8; modern, 9. 

Copra, 235. 

Cordials, 105. 

Coriander seeds, 90. 

Com, 162. 

Com salad, 210. 

Cotton seed oil, 110; exportation and man- 
uf actnre of, lH, 112. 

Crab, 68. 

Cranb»>cry, 226. 

Crawfish, 69. 

Cress, Indian, water, 209. 

Cucumber, 103, 211. 

Cumin seeds, 90. 

Curacoct, 105. 

Currant, 225. 

Curry powder, 97. 

Cusk, 63. 

Custard apple, 232. 

Cuttle fish, 61. 

BANSEUON, ifS, as. 

Date, 230. 

Sate plum, 232. 

Seventer, 211. 

Devonshire sauce, 102. 

Dextrine, 168. 

Dextrose, 210, 212. 

DiU, 91. 

Dock, 215. 

Domoji, 161. 

Double Gloucester cheese, 126. 

Dried beef, 27. 

Duck, 51; canvasback, 19, 



INDEX. 



iU 



Durian, 232. 
Dutch cheese, 123. 

EDAM CHEESE, 129. 
£els, 64. . 
Egg plant, 233. 
Elder berry, 225. 
Endive, 208. 
Erbswurst, 190. 
Ervalenta arabica, 192. 

FATS, 11, 12. 

Fennel, 92. 

Fenugreek, 90. 

Fern, 2lS. 

Figs, 227. 

Filbert, 234. 

Finnan baddies, 64. 

Fish, flour of, 63; hygienic and nu- 
tritive value of, 58; varieties, 60; 
\raste of, 65. 

Fish commission, 59. 

Fisheries building, appliances and 
acLuaria, 56; decoration of, 55. 

Flavors, 104. 

Flour, 170; composition of, 165; nu- 
tritive value of, 166. 

Food, analysis of, 12; definition of, 
9; classification of, 10; of primitive 
man, 1; properties of , 10. 

Fowl, wild, exhibits of, 52; nutritive 
value and flavor of , 48, 49 ; unwhole- 
someness of "gamey" fowl, 50. 

Frijole, 189. 

Fruits, 217-233; classification of, 218; 
history of, 217. 

Fruitarianism, 236. 

Fungi, edible, 179 ; comparative food 
value of, 180; exhibits of , 185 ; vari- 
eties of, 180-185. 

GAHBAKZA, 190. 
Garlic, 96, 213. 
Garum, 101. 
Gelatine, 44. 
Ginger, 99. 
Gluten, 166,168. 
Glucose, ^. 
Glycyrrhizine, 240. 



Goose, 50. 
Gooseberry, 225. 
Gorgonzola cheese, 127. 
Gouda cheese, 129. 
Grain, see cereals. 
Grains of Paradise, 91. 
Grape, 223. 
Grape fruit, 220. 
Grape sugar, 246. 
Groats or grits, 157. 
Gruyere cheese, 128. 
Guinea com, 245. 

HADDOCK, 61, 63. 

Haggis, Scotch, 39. 

Halibut, 62. 

Hazel nut, 217, 234. 

Heart, 44. 

Herring, 62, 63; herring pies, 64. 

Hickory nut, 234. 

Honey, 211. 

Hops, 215. 

Horseradish, 99. 

Horticulture, history of, 218. 

Huckleberry, 226. 

INDIAN CRESS, 209. 

Indian corn, see maize. 

Indian fig, 232. 

Indigestion, from cheese, 125; from 

mushrooms, 180, 
luosite, 240. 

JACA, 232. 
Jaggery, 147, 245. 
Jellies, 238. 
Jerked meat, 24, 25. 
Junket, 123. 
Juvia, 235. 

KADDEI,, 158. 
Kale, 212. 
Kale brose, 157. 
Kefir, 114. 
Ketchup, 102, 214. 
Kidney, 44. 
Klip fish, 63. 
Kola nut, 235. 
Kolcannon, 212. 



iv 



INDEX. 



Kori mochi, 161. 
Kohl rabl, 212. 
Koumiss, 113. 
Kummel, 106. 
Kumtnel brod, 158. 

LACTOMBTEE, 111. 

Lactose 240. 

I<ard, 133. 

I«ek, 96, 211. 

Xegumes, history of, 187; exhibits 

of, 191. 
Lemon, 107, 220. 
Lentils, 191. 
Lettuce, 207, 208. 
Levulose, 240, 242. 
Liebig's extract of beef, 81. 
Limburger cheese, 129. 
Limes, 107, 220. 
Lime juice sauce, 102. 
Linden, 242. 
Ling, 63. 

Lipton cheese, 129. 
Liqueurs, 105, 238. 
Liquorice root, 240. 
Litchi nut, 230. 
Liver, 44. 
Lobster, 68, 101. 
Lungs, 44. 

MACASONI, exhibits of, 176; history 
of, 171, 172; process of making, 173, 
174. 

:yiace, 89. 

^Mackerel, 61. 

Mahe, 231. 

Maize, 152. 

Maltose. 240. 

Mammee apple, 232. 

Mango, 231. 

Manioc, see cassava. 

Mannite,240. 

Maple syrup, sugar, 244. 

Maraschino, 106. 

Matzooi^ Ul. 

Mead, 241. 

Meats, digestibility of, 18; exhibit 
of, 20; of medieval and modern 
England, of primitive man, of the 
Roman republic, 15, 16; preserva- 



tion of, by chemicals, 41; by cold 
storage, 41; by canning, 36; by dry- 
ing, 24, 25, 27; by heat, 35; by salt- 
ing, 31, 32; exhibits of dried meats, 
25, 26, 27; of salted meats, 33, 34. 

Meat extracts, Liebig's, American, 
82; exhibits of, 82. 

Medlar, 232. 

Melitose, 240. 

Melizitose, 240. 

Milk, composition and food value of, 
109, 110; condensed, 114; Infection 
of, 112; solidified, 115; sterilization 
of, 113. 

Milkweed, 215. 

Millet, 157, 245. 

Milling, ancient and modern meth- 
ods, 166. 

Mint, di, 205. 

Miso-miso, 156. 

Mondamin, 25. 

Monkey's bread, 232. 

Monkey pots, 236. 

Morel, 182. 

Mulberry, 225. 

Mulligatawny soup, 8. 

Muscovado, 243. 

Mushrooms, common meadow^ fairy 
ring, giant pufiE ball, 181. 

Muskmelon, 226. 

Mussel, 75. 

Mustard, 98. 

Mutton, 19. 

Mycose, 240. 

NASTURTIUM, 209. 

Nettles, 215. 

Neufchatel cheese, 128. 

Neutral, 133. 

Non-starch system of diet, 236. 

Noyau, 106. 

Nutmeg, 88. 

Nuts, 233. 

OAT WBAX, 157. 

Oats, 156. 

Ofial, 43; commercial and food value 

of, 44, 45. 
Oils, vegetable, 139; exhibits of, 142, 



INDEX. 



145, 147; percentage of, contained 

in various foods, 140. 
Okra, aU. 
Oleine, 132. 

Oleomargerine, see butterine. 
Olives, 103, 233. 
Olive oil, history of, methods of 

manufacture, 142-144. 
OUa podrida, 191. 
Onion, 95, 213. 
Oranges, sweet, bitter, 219. 
Ox. lips, palates, tails, 44. 
Oysters, abalone, 75 ; early usage of, 

70; exhibits of , 74 ; nutritive value 

of, 73. 
Oyster culture, of ancient Rome, 70 ; 

of modem Europe, 71, 72; of United 

States, 72. 

Packing houses, 21. 

Palm butter, 146. 

Palm oil, 146. 

Palm sugar, 245. 

Papaw, 228. 

Parmesan cheese, 127, 175, 

Parsley, 93. 

Parsnip, 203. 

Pea, 189. 

Pea flour, 190. 

Peach, 229. 

Peacock, 48. 

Peanut, 235. 

Peanut oil, 145. 

Pear, 222. 

Pecan, 234. 

Pectin, 238, 243. 

Pekea nut, 235. 

Pemtnican, 34, 25. 

Pepper, 89, long, 90. 

Pepsin, 45. 

Periwinkle, 75. 

Perry, 222. 

Persimmon, 232. 

Pickles, 103. 

Pilchard, 64. 

Piment, 241. 

Pimento, 87. 

Pineapple, 232. 

Finite, 240, 



Pippin, 221. 

Pistache nut, 105, 235. 

Plum, 229. 

Poi, 199. 

Pomegranate, 228. 

Poonac, 235. 

Pork, 19, 20. 

Port du Salut cheese, 128. 

Potato, 193; nutritive value of, 196; 
starch of, 197; sweet, 197; wild, 195. 

Poultry, dietetic value of, 48; exhib- 
its of, 53; history of domestication, 
47. 

Prawn, 65, 69. 

Prickley pear, 232. 

Protein, U, 12. 

Prune, 229. 

Ptarmigan, 49. 

Pufi ball, 181. 

Pulse, 187. 

Pumpernickel, 158. 

Pumpkin, 233. 

Puree, 80. 

RADISH, 208. 
Raisin, 224. 
Rape seed oil, 146, 
Raspberry, 225. 
Ratafia, 106. 
Rhubarb, 211. 
Rice, 158, 161. 
Roquefort cheese, 128. 
Rumford, Count, 13, 79. 
Rye, 158. 

QUERCITE, 240. 
Quince, 222. 

SACCHAHINE, 241, 247. 

SaSron, 96. 

Sage, 94. 

Sago, sago palm, 248. 

Salads, French, Irish, early Jewish, 

Roman, 205; flower, 206. 
Salep, 199. 
Sallet, 207. 
Salmon, 60, 61. 
Salsify, 204, black, 204. 
Salt, as condiment, 85 ; as preserva- 



vi 



INDEX. 



ative, 31, 

Saltpetre, 32. 

Salts (mineral matters) , U, 12. 

Samphire, 101, 215. 

Sapucaya nut, 235. 

Sardines, 62, 61. 

Sauces, 101. 

Sauer kraut, 212. 

Sausages, exhibit of, 29. 

Scallops, 74. 

Schmierkase, 129. 

Schweitzer cheese, 129. 

Seaweed, 63, 215. 

Shaddock, 220. 

Shallot, 96. 

Shell fish, classification of, 67; die- 
tetic value of, 68; exhibits of, 70; of 
Greeks and Romans, 67. 

Shiratama, 161. 

Shrimp, 65, 69; shrimp essence, 101. 

Soda, 32. 

Sole, 61. 

Sorbin, 210. 

tSorghum, 215. 

Sorrel, 205, 210. 

Souari nut, 235. 

Soups, of Count Rumford, 80, 195; 
nutritive value of, 79 ; varieties of, 
80,81. 

Sour sop, 232. 

Soy, 101, 102. 

Skate, 65. 

Spaghetti, 171. 

Spices, mixed and Penang, 100. 

Spinach, 210. 

Sprat, 61. 

Sprout kale, 212. 

Squash, 233. 

Squid, 65. 

Starch, 218. 

Starch sugar, 215. 

Stearine,122,132. 

Stilton cheese, 126. 

Stockfish, 63. 

Stomach, 15. 

Strawberry, 225. 

Sturgeon, 60, 61. 

Succofesh,189. 

Sugar, 239-217. 



Summer savory, 93. 
Sunflower seed oil, 116. 
Sweet ball, 220. 
Sweet breads, 44. 
Sweet potato, 197. 
Sweet sop, 232. 

Tabasco sauce 103. 

Tamarind, 232. 

Tansy, 205. 

Taro, 199. 

Tarragon, 95, 215. 

Tasajo, 26. 

Terrapin, 77. 

Thyme, 91. 

Thyroid glands, 15. 

Toddy, 117, 215. 

Tofu, 189. 

Tomato, 102, 103, 214. 

Tongues, 44. 

Tonka bean, 105. 

Trehalose, 210. 

Tripe, H. 

Truffles, 181; game with, 52. 

Tubers, 193. 

Tunny fish, 61. 

Turbot, 60, 61. 

Turkey, 51. 

Turmeric, 97. 

Turnip, 201 ; turnip seed oil, 115. 

Turtle, hygienic value, 76; soup, 81; 

varieties of, 76. 
Tyrolean cheese, 129. 
Tyrotoxicon, 121. 

ULMETZEE CHEESE, 129. 

VANILLA, 101. 

Veal, nutritive value of, 19. 

Vegetable oyster, see salsify. 

Vegetarianism, theory of, 17. 

Verjuice, 106. 

Vermicelli, 171, 177. 

Vinegar, 106. 

WainUT, 102, 233. 

"Warden, 218. 

Water, an element of food, 11, 12. 

Watermelon, 226. 



INDBX. tM 



Wheat, 149-152. YAH,19S. 

Whelk, 75. Yarmouth bloater, 61. 

Whitebait, ^. Yeast, 113, 167. 

Whortleberry, 226. 

Worcestershire sauce, 102. Zea kays, 152. 




W!W»«!a«ffE^dHa«Sr;iaiefft*«!fc«i*«!!fflfih^ 



■■-'■i»5ii?;>a«fW 



