(Xv M-oo^.Vq.S^ 



Bi 



/f. 






£»■"■■■ ■■■■ 



•^ 



.\^il^. 




SV% '"'"'' 





:^, ..^t-.^V^- A /^ 






qj 



r JUL8 



1 



I' 



'of. 



APR P. 
OCT 20 n 



/■' 



^< 



/ 



/' 






^'^ .15' / 

f E8 i' i 






JAN Sr^^ 

t 

A. JAN 80 



JA 



^/3 

J'j:? *, ' DEC ic 



0C~ o- 



API? IS 



THE 

MURREY COLLECTION 

OF 

Cookery Books 

I5Y 

THOMAS J. MURREY 



THE WELL KNOWN NEW YORK CULINARY AUTHORITY. PRO- 
PRIETOR OF THE RESTAURANT HOISE OF REPRESENTA- 
TIVES, WASHINGTON, D. C. AUTHOR OF " SALADS 
AND SAUCES," ETC. 




NEW YORK 

FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY 

PCBLISHERS 



2J.i 



.^.^.f--^ 



v<»-2>?. //r 



Copyright, 1884, 1885, 1886 & 1887, 
By white, stokes & ALLEN. 

Copyright, 1887, 
By FREDERICK A. STOKES. 

Copyright, 1888, 
!;y FREDERICK A. STOKES & BROTHER. 



Copyright, 1891 & 1895, 
By FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY. 



CONTENTS 



FIFTY SOUPS 

FIFTY SALADS 

BREAKFAST DAIiNTIES 

PUDDINGS AND DAINTY DESSERTS 

THE BOOK OF ENTREES 

COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 

PRACTICAL CARVING 

LUNCHEON 
OYSTERS AND FISH 
THE CHAFING DISH 



FIFTY SOUPS 



CONTENTS. 



Remarks on Soups, 7 

Artichoke Soup, 12 

Asparagus Soup, 12 

Barley Soup, ^2 

Beans, Puree of, 35 

Beef Stock 9 

Beef Tea 13 

Bouille-Abaisse, 15 

Cauliflower Soup, 16 

Celery, Cream of, 20 

Chestnut Soup, 16 

Chicken Broth, 17 

Chicken Soup, 17 

Chicken Soup, no. 2 18 

Clam Broth, . . . , 18 

Clam Chowder, 19 

Clam. Puree of, 35 

Consomme, 20 

Consomme Colbert 20 

Crab, Bisque of, 13 



4 contents. 

Cream Soup, 21 

Croutons FOR Soui' 11 

Fish Chowder, 22 

German Soup, 23 

GiBLET Soup, 23 

Glaze for Soup, 1 1 

Green Turtle Soup, 23 

Gumbo Soup, 26 

Julienne Soup, 26 

Lentil Soup, 27 

Liebig's Soup, 27 

Lobster, Bisque of, 14 

Macaroni Soup, 27 

Marrow Dumplings, 11 

Mock Turtle Soup, 28 

Mulligatawny Soup, ....... 29 

Mutton Broth 29 

Onion Soup - . . 30 

Oxtail Soup 30 

Oyster Soup, 31 

Pea Soup, 31 

Pea Soup, F.conomical, 32 

Potato Soup, 35 

Rabbit Soup, 34 

Rice, Cream of, 21 

Scotch Broth, 35 

Soup Stock, 8 

Sorrel Soup^ 35 



contenis. 5 

Spring Soup, 36 

Tomato Soup, 36 

Turkey Soup, t^-j 

Veal Stock, 10 

Vegetable Soup, t,-] 

Vermicelli Soup, ..,.,. -37 



REMARKS ON SOUPS. 



Soups, like salads, present an excellent oppor- 
tunity for the cook to display good taste and 
judgment. 

The great dilTiculty lies in selecting the 
most appropriate soup for each particular occa- 
sion ; it would be well to first select your bill 
of fare, after which decide upon the soup. 

The season, and force of circumstances, may 
compel you to decide upon a heavy fish, such 
as salmon, trout, or other oleaginous fishes, 
and heavy joints and entrt^es. 

Under these circumstances it must neces- 
sarily follow that a light soup should begin the 
dinner, and vice I'crsa ; for large parties, one 
light and one heavy soup is always in order. 

There is as much art in arranging a bill of 
fare and harmonizing the peculiarities of the 
various dishes, as there is in preparing the 
colors for a painting ; the soup represents the 
pivot upon which harmony depends. 



8 SOUP STOCK. 

Soups ma}' be divided into four classes : 
clear, thick, purees or bisques, and chowders. 
A puree is made by rubbing the cooked ingredi* 
ents through a fine sieve ; an ordinary thick 
soup is made by adding various thickening in- 
gredients to the soup stock ; clear soups are, 
properly speaking, the juices of meats, served 
in a convenient and appetizing form. 

Chowders are quite distinct from the fore- 
going, being compounds of an infinite variety 
of fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetables, in proportions 
to suit the fluctuating ideas of the cook ; the 
object sought is to prepare a thick, highly 
seasoned compound, without reducing the in- 
gredients to the consistency of a pur^e. 



Soup Stock.— The word stock when used 
in cooking means the foundation or basis upon 
which soups and sauces depend ; it is therefore 
the most important part ot soup making. 
Care should be excercised that nothing in the 
least tainted or decayed enters the stock pot ; 
it is very desirable that soup stock be prepared 
a day or two before it is wanted ; the season- 
ing should be added in moderation at first, 
as it is difficult to restore a soup that has been 
damaged by over seasoning. 

Milk or cream should be boiled and strained. 



BEEF STOCK. 9 

and added hot when intended for soups ; when 
eggs are used beat them thoroughly, and add 
while the soup is hot. Should they be added 
when the soup is boiling, they are very apt to 
separate, and give the soup the appearance of 
having curdled ; the best plan is to beat up 
the egg with a little of the warm soup, then 
add it to the soup gradually. 

In summer, soup stock should be boiled 
from day to day, if kept any length of time, 
else it may become sour : should this happen, 
add a piece of charcoal to the soup, boil, cool, 
and strain into freshly scalded earthen or 
porclain-lined ware. On no account allow the 
soup stock to become cold in an iron pot or 
saucepan. 

To make Beef Stock. — Take six pounds 
of soup meat, cut it up into good sized pieces, 
break the bones into small pieces, place them 
in the stock pot, and add five quarts of cold 
water and two ounces of salt ; boil slowly for five 
hours, remove the scum as" fast as it rises ; cut 
up three white turnips and three carrots, add 
these to the soup with two stalks of celery, one 
large onion quartered, six cloves, teaspoonful 
of whole peppers, and a small bunch of herbs. 

When the vegetables are thoroughly cooked, 
strain the soup into a large saucepan, and set 



lO VEAL STOCK. 



it on back of range to keep hot, but not to boil, 
cut one pound of lean raw beef into fine pieces, 
put in into a saucepan, and add the whites and 
shells of four eggs ; season with salt, pepper^ 
and a little chopped parsley or celery tops ; 
squeeze these together with your hand for 
fifteen minutes, until they are thoroughly in- 
corporated, then add to the warm soup ; allow 
the soup to simmer slowly one hour ; taste for 
seasoning; strain into crocks, or serve. This is 
now called consomme or bouillon, and is the 
basis of nearly all soups ; such items as ma- 
caroni, sago, Italian paste, Macedoine, and, in 
fact, nearly all kinds of cereals and soup in- 
gredients may be added to this stock at differ- 
ent times to produce variety ; they should all 
be boiled separately before adding to the soup. 

Calf's feet and knuckle of veal may be added 
to the original or first pot if a very strong stock 
is required. 

Veal Stock. — Chop up three slices of bacon 
and two pounds of the neck of veal ; place in 
a stewpan with a pint of water or beef stock, 
and simmer for half an hour ; then add two quarts 
of stock, one onion, a carrot, a bouquet of 
herbs, four stalks of celery, half a teaspoonful 
of bruised whole peppers, and a pinch of nut- 
meg with a teaspoonful of salt ; boil gently for 



CROUTONS. ! I 

two hours, lemoving the scum in the mean- 
time. Strain into an earthen crock, and when 
cold remove the fat. A few bones of poultry 
added, with an additional quantity of water or 
stock, will improve it. 

Croutons, or fried bread crumbs for soups, 
are prepared in this way : — Cut slices of stale 
home-made bread half an inch thick, trim off 
all crust and cut each slice into squares ; fry 
these in very hot fat ; drain them on a clean 
napkin, and add six or eight to each portion of 
soup. 

Marrow Dumplings for Soups. — Grate 
the crust of a breakfast roll, and break the 
remainder into crumbs ; soak these in cold 
milk ; drain, and add two ounces of flour ; chop 
up half a pound of beef marrow freed from 
skin and sinews ; beat up the yolks of five 
eggs ; mix all together thoroughly, if too moist 
add some of the grated crumbs ; salt and 
l^epper to taste ; form into small round dump- 
lings ; boil them in the soup for half an hour 
before serving. 

Glaze. — Glaze is made from rich soup stock, 
boiled down until it forms a dark, strong jelly. 
It is used in coloring soups and sauces and for 
glazing entrees. It should be kept in a stone 
crock. 



12 ARTICHOKE SOUP. 

Artichoke Soup. — Melt a piece of butter 
the size of an egg in a saucepan ; then fry in it 
one white turnip sliced, one red onion sliced, 
three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes washed, 
pared, and sliced, and a rasher of bacon. Stir 
these in the boiling butter for about ten minutes, 
add gradually one pint of stock. Let all boil to- 
gether until the vegetables are thoroughly 
cooked, then add three pints more of stock ; 
stir it well ; add pepper and salt to taste, strain 
and press the vegetables through a sieve, and 
add one pint of boiling milk. Boil for five min- 
utes more and serve. 

Asparagus Soup.— Take seventy-five heads 
of asparagus ; cut away the hard, tough 
part, and boil the rest until tender. Drain 
them, and throw half into cold water until the 
soup is nearly ready, and press the other half 
through a hair sieve. Stir the pressed aspara- 
gus into two pints of stock, and let it boil ; add 
salt, pepper, and a small lump of sugar. Cut 
the remaining heads of asparagus into peas ; 
put them into the soup, and in a fev/ minutes 
serve. If necessary color with a little spinach 
green. 

Barley Soup. — Put into a stock pot a 
knuckle of veal and two pounds of shoulder of 
mutton chopped up ; cover with one gallon of 



BEEF TEA. I3 

cold water ; season with salt, whole peppers, and 
a blade of mace ; boil for three hours, removing 
the scum as fast as it rises. Wash half a pint 
of barley in cold water, drain and cover it with 
milk, and let it stand for half an hour, drain and 
add to the soup ; boil half an hour longer, mod- 
erately ; strain, trim the meat from the bone, 
chop up a little parsley or celery tops, add a 
tablespoonful to the soup and serve. 

Beef Tea. — Take half a pound of lean beef ; 
cut it up into small bits ; let it soak in a pint of 
water for three-quarters of an hour; then put 
both into a quart champagne bottle with just a 
suspicion of salt. Cork tightly, and wire the 
cork, so as to prevent its popping out. Set the 
bottle in a saucepan full of warm water, boil 
gently for an hour and a half, and strain through 
a napkin. Beef lea, without the fibrine of the 
meat, if administered often to a patient, will tend 
to weaken, instead of strengthening the invalid ; 
always add about a teaspoonful of finely chop- 
ped raw meat to a goblet of the tea, and let it 
stand in the tea for about five minutes before 
serving. 

Bisque of Crabs. — Boil twelve hard-shell 
ciabs for thirty m.inutes, and drain ; when cold 
break them apart, pick out the meat carefully, 
scrape off all fat adhering to the upper shell 



14 BISQUE. 

and save these for deviled crabs (an excellent 
recipe for deviled crabs may be found in 
*' Salads and Sauces.") 

Set the crab meat aside ; put the under shell 
and the claws in a mortar with half a pound of 
butter and a cupful of cold boiled rice, and 
pound them as smooth as possible ; then put 
this into a saucepan, and add a heaping tea- 
spoonful of salt, a bouquet of assorted herbs, a 
dozen whole jDeppers, a blade of mace, and 
three quarts of stock ; boil slowly for one hour, 
pour it through a sieve, and work as much of 
the pulp through the sieve as possible. Place 
the soup on the range to keep warm, but not to 
boil. 

Beat up the yolk of one egg, and add it 
slowly to a quart of warm milk previously boil- 
ed ; whisk the milk into the soup ; taste for 
seasoning. Now take the crab meat and heat 
it in a little boiling water, drain, put it into a 
hot soup tureen, pour the soup over it and 
serve. 

Bisque of Lobster. — Procure two large 
live lobsters ; chop them up while raw, shells 
and all ; put them into a mortar with three- 
fourths of a pound of butter, three raw eggs, 
and one quarter of a pound of cold boiled rice: 
pound to a paste, moisten with a little water ot 



ROUILLE-A15AISSE. 15 

Stock, then set aside. P>y out two slices of 
bacon fat, add to it one minced onion, a table- 
spoonful of chopped celery tops, one chopped 
long red pepper, one sliced carrot, and a quart 
of stock, boil and pour the whole into a sauce- 
pan. Add the lobster and three pints more of 
stock ; boil slowly for two hours ; strain, and rub 
the ingredients through a sieve. Return to 
the soup ; keep it warm, but do not allow it to 
boil. If too thick, add a little more stock ; 
add salt to taste. Boil one quart of cream ; 
whisk it into the soup ; taste again for season- 
ing ; pour it into a hot soup tureen, and send 
to table. 

This soup can be prepared by following 
receipt for bisque of crab, or it may be pre- 
pared by adding boiled lobster to a strong veal 
stock, and colored red by pounding the coral 
with butter, and adding this to the soup. 

Bouille-abaisse. — Take six pounds of cod- 
fish ; cut it up into small i)ieces ; chop two red 
onions ; put them in a stevvpan with an ounce 
of butter; let them brown without burning. 
Now add the fish and four tablespoonfuls of 
fine olive-oil, a bruised clove of garlic, two bay 
leaves, four slices of lemon peeled and quar- 
tered, half a pint of Shrewsbury tomato catsup, 
and half a salt-spoonful of saffron. Add sut 



JO CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

ficient hot soup stock to cover the whole ; boil 
slowly for half to three-quarters of an hour ; skim 
carefully while boiling; when ready to serve 
add a tablespoonful of chopped celery tops. 

Cauliflower Soup. — Fry half an onion in a 
very little butter ; when it is a light brown add 
a tablespoonful of minced raw ham and two or 
three stalks of celer}-, then add a quart of soup 
stock ; simmer slowly for half an hour. Boil 
for twenty-five or thirty minutes one medium - 
sized head of cauliflower in water slightly 
salted. Strain the contents of the frying-pan 
into a saucepan, and add one quart more of 
stock. Drain the cauliflower ; rub it through a 
fine sieve into the stock ; boil just once ; draw 
to one side of the fire ; taste for seasoning. 
Now dissolve a teaspoonful of rice flour in half 
a cupful of cold milk ; whisk the soup thor- 
oughly ; pour into a hot tureen, and serve. 

Chestnut Soup. — Remove the outer peel or 
coating from twenty-five Italian chestnuts ; 
pour scalding water over them, and rub off 
the inner coating. Put them into a saucepan 
with one quart of soup stock, and boil for three- 
quarters of an hours ; drain ; rub them through 
a colander, then through a sieve, with one 
tablespoonful of cracker dust, or pound to 
a paste in a mortar; season with salt and pejy 



CHICKEN BROTH FOR THE INVALID. I 7 

per ; add gradually the stock in which they 
were boiled ; add one pint more of stock ; boil 
once, and draw to one side of the fire. 

Beat I'.p the yolks of two raw eggs ; add 
them to one quart of warm milk ; whisk the 
milk into the soup ; taste for seasoning ; pour 
into a hot tureen, and send to table with 
croutons. 

Chicken Broth for the Invalid. — Procure 
a dry-picked Philadelphia roasting chicken ; 
cut it in halves ; put one half in the ice box ; 
chop the other half into neat pieces ; put it in- 
to a small saucepan ; add one quart of cold 
water, a little salt and a leaf of celery ; simmer 
gently for two hours ; remove the oily particles 
thoroughly ; strain the broth into a bowl ; when 
cooled a little, serve to the convalescent. Serve 
the m.eat with the broth. 

Chicken Soup.— Take three young male 
chickens; cut them up; put them in a sauce- 
pan with three quarts of veal stock. (A sliced 
carrot, one turnip, and one head of celery may 
be put with them and removed before the soup 
is thickened.) Let them simmer for an hour. 
Remove all the white flesh ; return the rest of 
the birds to the soup, and boil gently for two 
hours. Pour a little of the liquid over a quar- 
ter of a pound of bread crumbs, and when 



f8 CHICKEN SOUP, NO. 2. 

they are well soaked put it in a mortar with the 
white flesh of the birds, and pound the whole 
to a smooth paste : add a pinch of ground 
mace, salt, and a little cayenne pepper ; press 
the mixture through a sieve, and boil once 
more, adding a pint of boiling cream : thicken 
with a little flour mixed in cold milk ; remove 
the bones, and serve. 

Chicken Soup, No. 2. — Cut up one chick- 
en, put into a stewpan two quarts of cold 
water, a teaspoonful of salt, and one pod of 
red pepper ; when half done add two desert 
spoonfuls of well w^ashed rice : when thorough- 
ly cooked, remove the bird from the soup, tear 
a part of the breast into shreds (saving the re- 
mainder of the fowl for a salad), and add it to 
the soup with a wine-glass full of cream. 

Clam Broth.— Procure three dozen little- 
neck clams in the shell ; wash them well in cold 
water ; put them in a sauceoan, cover with a 
quart of hot water ; boil fifte .n minutes ; drain ; 
remove the shells ; chop up the clams, and add 
them to the hot broth witF a pat of butter; 
salt if necessary and add a little cayenne ; 
boil ten minutes, pour into a soup tureen, 
add a slice of toast, and send to table. This 
is the mode adopted when we do not have a 
clam opener in the house. 



CLA>! CHOWDER. 19 

Raw, freshly opened clams should be chop* 
ped fine and prepared in the manner above 
described. The large clams are better for 
chowders than for stews and broth. 

Clam Chowder.— Chop up fifty large clams ; 
cut eight medium-sized potatoes into small 
square pieces, and keep them in cold water un- 
til wanted. 

Chop one large, red onion fine, and cut up 
half a pound of larding pork into small pieces. 

Procure an iron pot, and see that it is very 
clean and free from rust ; set it on the range, 
and when very hot, throw the pieces of pork 
into it, fry them brown ; next add the onion, 
and fry it brown ; add one fourth of the chop- 
ped clams, then one fourth of the chopped po- 
tato, and two pilot crackers quartered, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one chopped, long, red pepper, 
a teaspoonful of powdered thyme and half a 
pint of canned tomato pulp. Repeat this 
process until the clams and potato are used, 
omitting the seasoning : add hot water enough 
to cover all,- simmer slowly three hours. 
Should it become too thick, add more hot water ; 
occasionally remove the pot from the range, 
take hold of the handle, and twist the pot round 
several times ; this is done to prevent the chow- 
der from burning. On no account disturb the 



20 CONSOMMl^. 

chowder with a spoon or ladle until done ; now 
taste for seasoning, as it is much easier to sea- 
son properly after the chowder is cooked than 
before. A few celery tops may be added if 
desired. 

Consomme. — This is nothing more than 
beef stock, with a little more attention given 
to clarifying it. It is always acceptable if the 
dinner to follow is composed of heavy joints 
and side dishes. If the party consists of more 
than twenty, serve one thick soup and one 
light soup or consomme. 

Consomme Colbert,— Prepare a strong 
consomme ; add to two quarts of it a table- 
spoonful each of shredded young turnips and 
carrots and a tablespoonful of green peas ; 
simmer until the vegetables are tender ; taste 
for seasoning. 

Poach four eggs in hot water in the usual 
manner ; send these to table with the soup. 
In serving add one poached egg to each plate. 
It is well always to poach two extra eggs to be 
used should any of the others be broken in the 
service. 

Cream of Celery. — Cut up six stalks of 
celery into half-inch pieces ; put them into a 
saucepan with one red onion quartered, one 
blade of mace, salt, and a few whole peppers ; 



CREAM OF RICK. 21 

■:idd a quart of veal stock, and boil for one hour. 
Rub the in<;re(lienls through a sieve ; put the 
pulp into a saucepan, and add one quart more 
of veal stock ; boil ; then draw to one side of 
fire to keep hot. 

Boil three pints of cream ; strain it into the 
soup ; whisk the soup at the same time (if not 
thick enough to suit your taste add a little 
flour) ; taste for seasoning; pour it into a hot 
tureen ; serve with small pieces of toast or crou- 
tons. 

Cream of Rice.— Wash thoroughly a half 
pound of rice ; pick out all imperfect or col- 
ored grains ; put it into a saucepan and add 
two quarts of stock. Boil slowly for one hour ; 
then rub the rice through a sieve twice ; re- 
turn it to the slock ; season with salt and 
pepper. Care must be exercised that the rice 
does not adhere to the bottom of the saucepan. 
Simmer until wanted. JJeat up the yolks of 
two eggs; add them slowly to a quart of warm 
milk previously boiled ; whisk the milk into 
the soup, which must not be very hot ; then 
pour it into a hot tureen, and serve. 

Cream Soup. — Prepare two quarts of strong 
veal stock ; set it on the back part of the range 
to simmer. 

Boil one quart of cream ; whisk it into the 



«2 FISH CHOWDER. 

Stock ; pour it into a hot tureen, and serve 
with croutons. If convenient the breast of a 
boiled chicken may be added. 

Pish Chowder.— Take two fine, fresh cod- 
fish, weighing six pounds each ; clean them well; 
cut the fish lengthwise from the bone, and cut 
it into pieces two inches square. Chop up the 
bones and heads ; put them into a saucepan ; 
add three quarts of warm water, one red onion 
sliced, heaping teaspoonful of salt, a dozen 
bruised peppercorns, and a few stalks of celery. 
Boil until the fish drops from the bones ; then 
strain into another saucepan. 

Cut into small squares one peck of small po- 
tatoes and a pound and a half of salt pork ; ar- 
range the fish, pork, and potatoes into mounds ; 
divide each equally into four parts ; add one 
quarter of the fish to the stock, next a quarter 
of the pork, then a quarter of the potato, and 
three pilot crackers, broken into quarters, salt, 
pepper, and a little thyme. Repeat this pro- 
cess until the remaining three quarters of 
pork, fish, and potato, are used ; cover all with 
warm milk ; simmer slowly until the fish is 
tender, care being taken that the soup does 
not boil over ; now taste for seasoning, serve 
as neatly as possible. 

The above is the old-fashioned New Eng- 



GERMAN SOUP. 23 

land fish chowder. Clams may be used instead 
of fish. 

German Soup. — Melt half an ounce of 
fresh butter in a sauce-pan ; when very hot, 
add half an onion, chopped fine, and a teas- 
poonful of caraway seeds. When the onion is 
slightly browned, add three quarts of strong 
veal stock, well seasoned ; simmer gently for 
three quarters of an hour. Prepare some mar- 
row dumplings ; boil them in water, or a por- 
tion of the soup, and serve. 

Giblet Soup. — An economical, and ac the 
same time excellent, soup, is made from the 
legs, neck, heart, wings, and gizzard of all 
kinds of poultry. These odds and ends are 
usually plentiful about the holidays. 

To turn them to account, follow general in- 
structions for chicken soup ; add a little rice, 
and your soup is complete. 

Green Turtle Soup.— Many housewives im- 
agine that green turtle is too expensive, and 
too difficult to prepare for household use, and 
for these reasons it is seldom met with in pri- 
vate families, except in tin cans. Even this is 
not always made from turtle. 

This soup is not any more expensive than 
many other kinds. A small turtle may be pur- 
chased at Fulton market for from ten to twenty 



24 GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 

cents per pound, and weighing from fifteen to 
forty pounds, the price varying according to 
the law of supply and demand. The only ob- 
jection to small turtles is that they do not con- 
tain a very large percentage of the green fat, 
so highly prized by epicures. 

Procure a live turtle, cut off the head, and 
allow it to drain and cool over night ; next 
morning place it on the working table, lay it on 
its back, and make an incision round the inner 
edge of the shell ; then remove it. Now re- 
move the intestines carefully, and be very care- 
ful that you do not break the gall ; throw these 
away ; cut off the fins and all fleshy particles, 
and set them aside ; trim out the fat, which has 
a blueish tint when raw ; wash it well in several 
waters. Chop up the upper and under shells 
with a cleaver ; put them with the fins into a 
large saucepan ; cover them with boiling water ; 
let stand ten minutes ; drain and rub off the 
horny, scaly particles, with a kitchen towel. 

Scald a large saucepan, and put all the meat 
and shell into it (except the fat) ; cover with 
hot water ; add a little salt, and boil four 
hours. Skim carefully, and drain ; put the 
meat into a large crock ; remove the bones, 
and boil the fat in the stock. This does not 
take very long if first scalded. When done, 



GREEX TURTLE SOUP. 25 

add it also to the crock ; pour the stock into 
another crock ; let it cool, and remove all 
scum and oily particles : this is quite work 
enough for one day. Clean the saucepans 
used, and dry them thoroughly. 

Next day fry out half a pound of fat ham •, 
then add one chopped onion, one bay leaf, six 
cloves, one blade of mace, two tablespoonfuls 
of chopped celery tops, a tablespoonful of salt, 
a teaspoonful of white pepper, and one quart 
of ordinary soup stock. Simmer for half an 
hour. Now put the turtle stock on the fire ; 
when hot strain the seasoning into it ; remove 
the turtle from the other crock, cut it up, anc 
add to the stock ; now add a pint of dri. 
sherry. 

Do not let the soup come to a boil ; taste 
for seasoning, and if herbs are needed tie s 
string to a bunch of mixed herbs, throw them 
into the soup, and tie the other end to the 
saucepan handle ; taste often, and when palat- 
able, remove the herbs. If the soup is not 
dark enough, brown a very little flour and add 
to it. Keep the soup quite hot until served ; 
add quartered slices of lemon and the yolk of a 
hard boiled egg, quartered just before serving ; 
send to table with a decanter of sherry. 

The yolks of the eggs may be worked to a 



26 GUMBO SOUP. 

paste, and made into round balls to imitate 
turtle eggs if this is desired. 

I have placed before my readers this compli- 
cated receipt in as simple a form as it is 
possible to do, having carefully avoided all the 
technical formulas used in the profession. 

Gumbo Soup. — Cut up two chickens, two 
slices of ham, and two onions into dice ; flour 
them, and fry the whole to a light brown ; 
then fill the frying pan with boiling water ; stir 
it a few minutes, and turn the whole into a 
saucepan containing three quarts of boiling 
water. Let it boil for forty minutes, removing 
the scum. 

In the meantime soak three pints of ochra in 
cold water for twenty minutes ; cut them into 
thin slices, and add to the other ingredients ; 
let it boil for one hour and a half. Add a quart 
of canned tomatoes and a cupful of boiled rice 
half an hour before serving. 

Julienne Soup. — Cut into fine shreds, an 
inch long, two carrots, two turnips, two heads 
of celery, and the white ends of two spring 
leeks. Put them into a frying pan, with one 
ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and one 
lump of cut sugar ; simmer until tender, then 
add a cupful of stock. Put two quarts of veal 
stock in a saucepan ; add the vegetables, and 



LENTfL SOUP. 



27 



a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little fresh 
sorrel if convenient (wild wood sorrel is the 
best for julienne) shredded. Taste for season- 
ing ; boil once, and serve. 

Lentil Soup. — Lentils are very nutritious, 
and form the basis of a most excellent soup ; 
but they are little used in American cookery. 
Soak a pint of dry lentils for two hours ; put 
them in a saucepan ; add two quarts of cold 
water, half an onion, two or three celery tops, 
salt, whole peppers, and two or three ounces 
of the small end of a ham. Boil gently for three 
hours ; add a little more hot water, if the 
quantity has been reduced by boiling, pour 
through a sieve, remove the ham, onion and 
celery; rub the lentils through a sieve, return 
to the soup; whisk it thoroughly; taste for 
seasoning, and serve with croutons. 

Liebig's Soup.— An excellent soup may be 
prepared at short notice, as follows: — Take 
half an onion, three or four outer stocks of 
celery, one carrot sliced, salt, pepper, and a 
very little mace. Boil these in two quarts of 
water for half an hour ; strain, and add to the 
water two table-spoonfuls of Liebig's Extract 
of meat ; whisk thoroughly, taste for seasoning, 
and serve. 

Macaroni Soup.— Boil half a pound of 



28 MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Macaroni for half an hour, in three pints of 
water slightly salted ; add a blade of mace. 
When done, drain, and cut it into two inch 
pieces. Put three pints of soup stock into a 
saucepan ; add the macaroni ; taste for season- 
ing, boil a moment and serve. 

Mock Turtle Soup.— Take half a calf's 
head, with the skin on ; remove the brains. 
Wash the head in several waters, and let it 
soak in cold water for an hour. Put it in a 
saucepan with five quarts of beef stock ; let 
it simmer gently for an hour ; remove the scum 
carefully. Take up the head and let it get 
cold ; cut the meat from the bones into pieces 
an inch square, and set them in the ice-box. 

Dissolve two ounces of butter in a frying 
pan ; mince a large onion, and fry it in the 
butter until nicely browned, and add to the 
stock in which the head was cooked. Return 
the bones to the stock ; simmer the soup, re- 
moving the scum until no more rises. Put in a 
carrot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, a bouquet 
of herbs, a dozen outer stalks of celery, two 
blades of mace and the rind of one lemon, 
grated ; salt and pepper to taste. Boil gently 
for two hours, and strain the soup through a 
cloth. Mix three ounces of browned flour 
with a pint of the soup ; let simmer until it thick- 



MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 



29 



ens, then add it to the soup. Take the pieces 
of head out of the ice-box, and add to the soup ; 
let them simmer until quite tender. " Before 
serving add a little Worcestershire sauce, a 
tablespoonful of anchovy paste, a gobletful of 
port or sherry, and two lemons sliced, each 
slice quartered, with the rind trimmed off." 
Warm the wine a very little before adding it to 
the soup. Keep in ice-box three or four days 
before using. Serve the brains as a side dish. 

Mullig-atawny Soup. — Divide a large 
chicken into neat pieces : take a knuckle of 
veal, and chop it up ; put all into a large sauce- 
pan, and add one gallon of water ; salt ; boil for 
three hours or until reduced one-third. Put an 
ounce of butter in a hot frying pan, cut up two 
red onions, and fry them in the butter. Into a 
half pint of the stock put two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of curry powder ; add this to the on- 
ion, then add the whole to the soup, now taste 
for seasoning. Some like a little wine, but 
these are the exception and not the rule. Be- 
fore serving add half a slice of lemon to each 
portion. Many prefer a quantity of rice to be 
added to the soup before it is finished ; the rice 
should be first well washed and parboiled. 

Mutton Broth. — Take four pounds of lean 
mutton trimmings ; cut them into neat pieces ■ 



30 ONION SOUP. 

put them into a saucepan ; add three quarts of 
cold water, one heaping teaspoonful of salt. 
Bruise, and add six peppercorns, three or four 
celery tops, and one young leek. Boil slowly for 
two hours ; remove the scum as it rises. Boil 
a cupful of rice for twenty minutes ; add it to 
the soup, and taste for seasoning ; remove the 
celery, leek, and mutton bones ; pour the soup 
into a hot tureen, and serve. 

Substitute a knuckle of veal for mutton, and 
you will have an excellent veal broth. 

Onion Soup. — Peel and cut into small 
pieces three medium-sized onions ; fry them in 
a little butter until tender, but not brown ; 
pour over them a pint of stock ; add a little 
salt and cayenne. Simmer for fifteen minutes ; 
press the soup through a sieve ; put it in a 
saucepan, and add three tablespoonfuls of 
grated bread crumbs, and half a gobletful of 
hot cream. Taste for seasoning, and serve 
with small slices of toast. 

Oxtail Soup. — Take two oxtails ; cut them 
into joints, and cut each joint into four pieces ; 
put them into a pan with two ounces of butter, 
and fry them for ten minutes. Slice two onions, 
one turnip, two carrots, and a dozen outer 
stalks of celery, and fry in the same butter, 
Nvith three slices of bacon cut up fine ; fry to a 



OYSTER SOUP. 31 

light brown. Turn the ingredients into a 
saucepan with a quart of stock or ham water, 
and boil quickly for half an hour, then add two 
more quarts of stock, a bouquet of herbs, two 
bay-leaves, a dozen whole peppers crushed, a 
few cloves, and salt to taste. Simmer until 
the meat is quite tender ; then take it out ; 
strain the soup ; skim off the fat, and thicken 
with two ounces of flour. Return the meat to 
the soup ; add a tablespoonful of Worcester- 
shire, and a cupful of sherry, and serve with 
grated rusks. 

Oyster Soup. — Wet a saucepan with cold 
water ; pour into it two quarts of milk. When 
at boiling point, add two dozen oysters and a 
pint of oyster liquor well seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Dissolve a tablespoonful of rice 
flour in a little cold milk ; finally add a large 
tablespoonful of table butter ; do not let the 
soup boil again as it will contract the oysters. 
Pour into a tureen, taste for salting, and serve, 
a few broken crackers may be added. The 
object in wetting the pan is to prevent the milk 
from burning. 

Pea Soup. — Cut two large slices of ham 
into dice, with a sliced onion, and fry them in 
a little bacon fat until they are lightly browned. 
Cut up one turnip, one large carrot, four outer 



32 PEA SOUP, ECONOMICAL^ 

Stalks of celery, and one leek into small pieces ; 
add these last ingredients to the ham and 
onion, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes ; 
then pour over them three quarts of corned- 
beef water or hot water, and add a pint of split 
peas which have been soaked in cold water over 
night. 

Boil gently until the peas are quite tender 
stirring constantly to prevent burning; then 
add salt and pepper to taste, and a teaspoonful 
of brown sugar. Remove the soup from the 
fire, and rub through a sieve t if it is not thick 
enough to suit your taste, add a few ounces of 
flour mixed smoothly in a little cold milk ; re- 
turn the soup to the fire, and simmer for half 
an hour. Cut up four slices of American bread 
into small dice, and fry the pieces in very hot 
fat until nicely browned ; place them on a nap- 
kin or towel, and add a few to each plate or 
tureen of soup just before it goes to table. 

Pea Soup, Econoniical. — Boil for four 
hours two quarts of green pea hulls in four 
quarts of water, in which beef, mutton, or fowl 
has been boiled, then add a bunch or bouquet 
of herbs, salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of 
butter, and a quart of milk. Rub through a 
hair sieve, thicken with a little flour, and serv^ 
with croutons, as in the foregoing receipt. 



POTATO SOUP. 33 

Potato Soup. — Wash and peel two dozen 
small sized potatoes ; put them into a saucepan 
with two onions ; add three quarts of corned- 
beef water; boil for one hour and a half until 
the potatoes fall to pieces. Pour the soup 
through a sieve, and rub the potato through it 
to a fine pulp ; put the whole into the saucepan 
again ; when very hot add a pint of hot rich 
cream, salt and pepper, if necessary ; whisk 
thoroughly ; pour into a tureen, add croutons, 
and serve. 

Puree of Beans.— Soak two quarts of small, 
white beans over night ; change the water 
twice ; drain, put them into a pot or saucepan, 
and cover them with cold water. Boil slowly 
for six hours ; as the water evaporates, add hot 
water. One hour before the beans are cooked 
add one pound of salt pork, a bunch of fresh 
herbs, half a dozen whole cloves, salt if neces- 
sary ; when done pour the soup through a sieve, 
remove the pork and seasoning, and rub the 
soup through a sieve : add the pulp to the 
stock ; taste for seasoning ; pour the soup into 
a tureen, add croutons and serve. Many prefer 
a ham bone to pork. 

Puree of Clanis.--Chop twenty-five large 
hard-shell clams, very fine, and put them aside; 
fry half a chopped red onion in an ounce o< 



34 RABBIT SOUP. 

hot butter ; add a teaspoonful of chopped celery 
tops, a blade of mace, one salted anchovy, six 
whole peppers, and a pint of soup stock. Let 
it boil ; then strain into a saucepan ; add the 
chopped clams and one quart of stock or hot 
water. Boil slowly one hour ; strain all the 
clams through a sieve twice, and return to the 
stock ; season vv'ith salt and cayenne. Keep 
the soup warm, but do not let it boil again ; 
taste for seasoning. Boil one pint of cream in 
a saucepan previously wet with cold water; 
strain it, and add to the soup slowly. Mix a 
teaspoonful of rice flour in a little cold milk ; 
add to the soup ; whisk the soup ; taste again 
for seasoning ; pour it into a hot tureen, and 
serve. 

Rabbit Soup. — Cut up two jack rabbits in- 
to neat pieces ; put them into a stewpan con- 
taining one quarter of a pound of melted but- 
ter ; add a slice of fat bacon cut into small 
pieces. Fry for five minutes in the butter, 
slice two small carrots, and two red onions, 
and add to the saucepan with one bay leaf, 
one blade of mace, four cloves, a few green 
celery stalks, one ounce of salt, and one long 
red pepper. 

Pour over all, one gallon of stock; simmer 
gently for nearly three hours ; skim carefully ; 



SCOTCH BROTH. 35 

Strain into a saucepan, and set on back of 
range to keep hor, but not to boil. Add half 
a pint of dry sherry, and serve with croutons. 
If not dark enough add a little glaze. 

Scotch Broth. — Take two pounds of mutton 
trimmings ; cut into neat pieces ; put into a 
saucepan with three quarts of water, one large 
red onion, salt, and a dozen whole peppers. 
Boil gently, and remove the scum as it rises ; 
wash half a pint of barley ; soak it while the 
soup is boiling, and add it at the end of the 
first hour. Let the soup boil for two hours 
longer ; taste for seasoning ; pour slowly into a 
soup tureen, leaving the meat in the saucepan. 
Some prefer to take the meat out of the soup, 
and after removing the bones they return the 
meat to the soup. 

Sorrel Soup. — Sorrel is an excellent ingre- 
dient for soup. Its acid leaves are much ap- 
preciated by the French ; the wild sorrel may 
be used, but now that truck gardeners are culti- 
vating it extensively, it will be found less 
troublesome to use the latter. 

The Germans make the best sorrel soup ; 
their recipe is as follows : — Wash and pick 
over two quarts of sorrel ; remove the stems ; 
then cut the sorrel into pieces. Heat two 
ounces of butter in a small saucepan ; add the 



36 SPRING SOUP. 

sorrel and a few blades of chives : cover with- 
out water and allow it to steam for half an 
hour. Stir to prevent burning ; sprinkle over 
this a tabiespoonful of flour free from lumps. 
Now add three quarts of well-seasoned veal 
stock ; taste for seasoning ; boil once, and send 
to table with croutons or small bits of toast. 
This an excellent spring and summer soup. 

Spring- Soup.— Take two quarts of nicely 
seasoned veal stock ; place it on the range to 
keep hot, but not to boil. Cut into neat strips 
four young carrots, four young spring turnips, 
and two spring leeks ; add them to the stock. 
Now add half a pint of fresh green peas ; boil 
gently for fifteen minutes ; taste for seasoning, 
and serve. 

Tomato Soup.— Cut four ounces of ham 
into dice ; slice two onions, and fry with ham 
in two ounces of butter ; when browned turn 
them into a saucepan containing three quarts 
of stock or corned-beef water, and add three 
carrots, two turnips, and one long red pepper, 
and a dozen outer stalks of celery. Simmer 
gently for one hour ; then add a quart of 
canned tomatoes ; boil gently for another hour ; 
rub the whole through a sieve, and simmer 
again with the liquor a few minutes ; add salt, 
and serve vAih fried bread crumbs. 



TURKEY SOUP. 37 

Turkey Soup. — Take the remains of a 
cold roast turkey, trim off all the meat, break 
up the bones, and put them into a saucepan ; 
cover them with two quarts of veal stock ; salt 
and cayenne to taste. Boil gently for one 
hour ; strain and skim. Now add the flesh of 
the turkey ; simmer gently ; dissolve a table- 
spoonful of rice flour in a little cold milk, and 
add it to the soup. Let it come to a boil ; 
taste for seasoning, and serve with croutons. 

Vegetable Soup, — Wash and clean two 
carrots and two turnips ; cut them into slices? 
and cut each slice into small narrow strips ; 
put them into a saucepan with four stalks of 
celery cut into inch pieces, a dozen button 
onions, one long red pepper, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt ; add three quarts of soup stock ; 
boil until the vegetables are tender, add a 
lump of sugar, and serve. The carrots and 
turnips may be cut into fancy shapes with a 
vegetable cutter. 

Vermicelli Soup. — Take one quarter of a 
pound of vermicelli ; break it into pieces, and 
boil it for five minutes ; drain and add it to three 
pints of strong soup stock. Boil once ; draw 
to one side, and simmer gently for twenty min- 
utes. Should any scum arise, remove it ; taste 
for seasoning, and send to table with a little 
Parmesan cheese. 



FIFTY SALADS 



CONTENTS. 



Remarks on Salads, . 7 

Borage for Salads, 8 

Plain Salad Dressing q 

Mayonnaise, lo 

Anchovy Salad, lo 

Asparagus Salad, lo 

Beans, Lima, Salad of, 1 1 

Beef Salad, 1 1 

Beet Leaves Salad, 12 

Bloater, Yarmouth, Salad of, ... 12 

Breakfast Salad, 12 

Brussels-Sprouts Salad, 13 

Carrot Salad, 13 

Cauliflower Salad, 13 

Celeriac Salad, 14 

Celery Salad, 14 

Cherry Salad, 15 

Chicory Salad 15 

Chicken Salad, ......... 15 



4 contents, 

Codfish (Salt) Salad, 
Corn Salad, or Fetticus, 
Crab Salad, . . 
Cray-fish Salad, . 
Cress Salad, . 
Cucumber Salad, 
Currant Salad, 
Dandelion Salad, 
Dumas Salad, 
Eels, Mayonnaise of 
Egg Salad, 
Endive Salad, 
Escarole Salad, 
Frog Salad, 
Herbs for Salads, 
Herring Salad, 
Hop Salad, 
Italian Salad, 
Lamb Salad, . 
Lettuce Salad, 
Lobster Salad, 
Melon Salad, 
Mint Salad, . 
Orange Salads, 
Oyster Salad, 
I^igeon Salad, 



contents, 

Pineapple Salad, 
Potato Salad, 
Prawn Salad, 
Rabbit Salad, 
Salmon Sal.ads, 
Sardine Salad, 
Scollop Salad, 
Tomato Salad, 

E. C.'s Salad Dressinc;, 
S. F.'s Shrimp Salad, . 



27 

28 
28 
29 
29 
30 
30 
31 

31 
32 



REMARKS ON SALADS. 



Of the many varieties of food daily con- 
sumed, none are more important tlian a 
salad, rightly compounded. And there is 
nothing more exasperating than an inferior 
one. The salad is the Prince of the Menu, 
and although a dinner be perfect in every 
other detail except the salad, the affair will 
be voted a failure if that be poor. It is 
therefore necessary for those contemplating 
dinner-giving, to personally overlook the 
preparation of the salad if they wish favor- 
able criticism. 

To become a perfect salad-maker, do not 
attempt too much at first ; practise on plain 
salads and plain dressings before you try 
combination salads, fancy dressings, and elab- 
orate garnishings, and you will soon become 
proficient in the art. Do not prepare plain 
salads until \hfi moment they are wanted at 
table. Should they be mixed long before 



S BORAGE FOR SALADS, 

they are served, you will find the lettuce 
flabby and the dressing- watery and insipid. 

The importance of using none but the 
purest condiments must not be overlooked, 
for a perfect salad cannot be made with in- 
ferior ingredients. Garnishing ur decorat- 
ing salads presents an opportunity for dis- 
playing artistic taste and judgment. The 
most deliciously blended saLad will not be 
appreciated unless it is attractive in appear- 
ance. No exact rule can be laid down for 
garnishing ; much depends on the judgment 
and good taste of the salad maker. Original 
ideas are commendable. Wild flowers neat- 
ly arrant^ed with alternate tufts of i^reen 
are very pretty during warm weather. Dur- 
ing cold weather garnish with pretty de- 
signs cut from beets, turnips, radishes, cel- 
ery, etc. 



Borage for Salads.— This is an excellent 
ingredient in nearly all vegetable salads. 
Cover a champagne-bottle with raw cotton 
or heavy, coarse flannel ; fasten it with 
thread ; set the bottle in a soup-plate, and 
pour warm water over it. Soak a handful 
of borage seeds in warm water for lifteeu; 



PLAIN SALAD DRESSING. 9 

minutes ; drain, and work them into the 
flannel around the bottle, as evenly as possi- 
ble. Place the bottle and soup-plate in a 
warm, dark place until the seeds sprout ; 
then bring it to the light. Keep water in 
the plate constantly. When the shoots are 
a few inches long, trim them off, as v/anted, 
and add them to any salad witli a plain 
dressing. 

Plain Salad Dressing is admissible 
with nearly all salads. It is composed of 
oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and nothing 
else. Many who do not care particularly 
for oil, use equal quantities of oil and vine- 
gar, others one-third vinegar to two-thirds 
oil ; these proportions satisfy a large class, 
but four parts of oil to one of A-inegar are 
about the right proportions, provided the 
vinegar is of the best. 

The plain dressing is made in two Avays, 
either mixed in a bowl and the salad added 
to it, or as follows : Take a tablespoon and 
put in it (holding it over the salad) one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth this quantity of 
freshly ground pepper, and a tablespoonful 
of oil ; mix and add to the salad. Add three 
more tablespoonfuls of oil ; toss the salad 
lightly for a few seconds ; lastly, add a tabic • 



lO MAYONNAISE. 

spoonful of sharp vinegar ; toss the salad 
again, and serve. 

Mayonnaise.— When preparing a mayon- 
naise in summer keep the bowl as cold as 
possible. Beat up the yolks of two raw 
eggs to a smooth consistency, add two salt- 
spoonfuls of salt and one of white pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of oil. Beat up thor- 
oughly, and by degrees add half a pint of oil. 
When it begins to thicken add a few drops 
of vinegar. The total amount of vinegar to 
be used is two tablespoonfuls, and the 
proper time to stop adding oil, and to add 
drops of vinegar, is when the dressing has a 
glassy look instead of a velvet appearance. 
After a few trials almost any one can make 
a mayonnaise, as it is very simple. 

Anchovy Salad.— Wash, skin, and bone 
eight salted anchovies ; soak them in water 
for an hour ; drain and dry them. Cut two 
hard-boiled eggs into slices. Arrange the 
leaves of a head of lettuce neatly in a salad- 
bowl and add the anchovies and the eggs. 
Prepare a plain dressing in a soup-plate, 
pour it over the salad and serve. The fish 
may be minced, chopped, or cut into fillets. 

Asparagus Salad.— Remove the binding 
rvjrund a bunch of asparagus, cut off an inch 



BEANS, LIMA, SALAD OF. II 

of the root end of each stalk, scrape off the 
outside skin, wash them, tie them in bunches 
containing six to eiglit each, and boil, if 
possible, with the heads standing just out 
of the water, as the rising steam will cook 
them sufficiently. If covered with water 
the heads are cooked before the root 
ends. When tender, plunge them into 
cold water, drain, arrange them on a side 
dish, pour over them a plain dressing, and 
serve. 

Beans, Lima, Salad of.— Boil one pint 
of lima beans for forty minutes in water 
slightly salted ; drain ; put them in a salad- 
bowl, and add three hot, boiled potatoes cut 
into slices. Mince a stalk of celery ; sprin- 
kle it over the vegetables. Prepare a plain 
dressing, pour it over the salad, and set the 
bowl in the ice-box ; when cold, serve. A 
little cold, boiled tongue may be added if 
liked. 

Beef Salad.— Cut into neat pieces, an 
inch in length, half a pound of boiled fresh 
beef. Take two heads of crisp lettuce, re- 
ject the outside leaves, wipe the small leaves 
separately, place them in a salad-bowl, add 
the beef. Chop up a sweet Spanish pepper, 
add a tablespoonful to the salad. Prepare 



1 2 Met leaves salad. 

a plain dressing, pour it over the salad; 
just before serving, mix gently. 

Beet Leaves Salad.— The seed-leaves of 
the beet were preferred by the Greeks to 
lettuce. They are served the same as let- 
tuce. If a little old, scald them in hot water 
a moment. Swiss chard is the midrib of 
the beet leaf. Remove the leaves, cut the 
midribs into equal lengths, tie in small 
bunches, boil thirty minutes. Arrange on 
a side dish, pour over them a plain dressing 
and serve either hot or cold. 

Bloater, Yarmouth, Salad of.— Take 
two whole fish from the can. Remove skin 
and bone, and cut them into pieces an inch 
square. Cut up three stalks of celery into 
inch pieces and each piece into strips ; place 
these in a salad-bowl and add the fish. 
Chop up three salt anchovies with a dozen 
capers into very small pieces ; strew over 
the salad ; add a plain dressing and toss 
lightly before serving. 

Breakfast Salad.— Scald two ripe toma- 
toes ; peel off the skin, and place them in ice- 
water ; when very cold, slice them. Peel and 
slice very thin one small cucumber. Put 
four leaves of lettuce into a salad-bowl, add 
the tomatoes and cucumber. Cut up one 



spring onion ; add it, and, if possible, add 
f(jur or five tarragon leaves. Now add a 
plain dressing and serve. 

Brussels- Sprouts Salad. — Pick over 
carefully a quart of sprouts, wash well, and 
boil rapidly for twenty minutes (if boiled 
slowly they lose their color). Drain, and 
plunge them into cold water. Drain again, 
and put them into a salad-bowl. Mince 
one-fourth of a pound of boiled ham, ar- 
range it neatly and evenly around the 
sprouts, and around this arrange a border 
of potato salad. Add a plain dressing, a 
teaspoonful of herbs, and serve. 

Carrot Salad..— The young spring carrots 
are excellent when served as a salad. Take 
six of them, wash, wipe them with a coarse 
towel, boil them for ten minutes, drain and 
cut into narrov\' strips. Arrange neatly in 
the centre of a salad-bowl ; cut up half a 
pound of cold boiled mutton into neat 
pieces ; put it around the carrots. Mince a 
stalk of celery with a few tarragon leaves ; 
strew over the dish ; add a plain dressing 
and serve. 

Cauliflower Salad.— Put into a basin of 
coid water a head of cauliflower, head down- 
ward, add half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 



14 CELERIAC SALAD. 



wineglass of vinegar. Let stand for half or 
three-fourths of an hour, drain, and put 
it into a saucepan to boil until tender. The 
length of time for boiling depends upon the 
size of the head. Remove the scum care- 
fully as it rises, or it will discolor the cauli- 
flower. When done separate the sprigs, 
and arrange them around the bowl, heads 
outward. Put into the centre of the dish a 
head of cabbage-lettuce, cover it with red 
mayonnaise {see Lobster Salad), and sprinkle 
a few capers on top. Mask the cauliflower 
with mayonnaise, garnish w^ith beet dia- 
monds, and the effect is very pleasing. 

Celeriac Salad.— Celeriac, or turnip-root- 
ed celery, is an excellent vegetable for the 
gouty and the rheumatic. When stewed 
and served with cream sauce, it is at its 
best. It may be used in salads either raw 
or boiled. If used raw, cut it into very thin 
slices ; if cooked, cut it into inch pieces. 
Mix with it endive, potato, and a little boiled 
tongue, in equal proportions ; serve with a 
plain dressing. 

Celery Salad. —With the exception of let- 
tuce, celery is more generally used as a sa'iad 
in this country than any other plant. 

Cut off the root end of three heads of eel- 



CHERRY SALAD. 1 5 

ery ; wipe each leaf-stalk carefully, and cut 
them into inch pieces. Cut each piece into 
sttips, put them into a salad-bowl, add a 
plain mayonnaise, and serve. 

Cherry Salad..— Remove the stones from 
a quart of fine, black ox-heart cherries. 
Place them into a compote, dust powdered 
sugar over them, and add half a wineglass- 
ful each of sherry and cura^oa. Just before 
serving mix lightly. 

Chicory Salad.— Thoroughly w^ash and 
drain two heads of chicory ; cut away the 
green leaves and use them for garnishing, 
or boil them as greens. Cut off the root- 
end from the bleached leaves, and put the 
latter into a salad-bowl that has been rubbed 
with a clove of garlic. Add half a dozen 
tarragon leaves, four to six tablespoonfuls 
of oil, saltspoonful of white pepper, and 
two saltspoonfuls of salt. Mix thoroughly. 
Now^ add a tablespoonful of tarragon vine- 
gar, and you have a deUghtful salad. 

Chicken Salad. — The average cook book 
contains a good deal of nonsense about 
this salad. Nothing can be more simple 
than to mix a little nicely cut cold boiled 
chicken and celery together, with a table- 
spoonful or two of mayonnaise. Put this 



l6 CHICKEN SALAD, 

mixture into a salad-bowl, arrange it neatly, 
and over all add a mayonnaise. Garnisii 
with celery tops, hard-boiled eggs, strips of 
beets, etc. Use a little more celery than 
chicken. Or, tear a few leaves of lettuce, 
put them in a salad-bowl, and add half a 
cold, boiled, tender chicken that has been 
cut into neat pieces ; pour over it a mayon- 
naise ; garnish neatly, and serve. 

For large parties, and when the chicken 
is apt to become dry, from having been cut 
up long before it is wanted, it is best to 
keep it moist by adding a plain dressing. 
Drain it before using. Put on a flat side- 
dish a liberal bed of crisp lettuce. Add 
the chicken, garnish neatly, and, just before 
sending to table, pour over it a mayonnaise. 

If in hot weather, arrange the salad on a 
dish that will stand in a small tub or kid. 
Fill this with ice, place the disli on top, pin 
a napkin or towel around the tub to hide it 
from view. Flowers, smilax, etc., may be 
pinned on this, which produce a very pretty 
effect. 

In ancient times the fairest and youngest 
lady at table was expected to prepare and 
mix the salad with her fingers. *' Retourner 
la salade Ics doigts^'' is the French way of 



CODFISH (salt) SALAT). I) 

describing a lady to be still young and 
beautiful. 

Codfish (Salt) Salad.— Take three pieces 
of codfish two inches square ; split them in 
two, and soak them in water over night. 
Change the water twice, next day drain and 
wipe dry. Baste each piece witli a little 
butter, and broil (they make a very nice 
breakfast dish, served with drawn butter). 
When cool, tear them apart, and cover with 
a plain salad dressing ; let stand for two 
hours. Half fill a salad-bowl with crisp 
lettuce leaves ; drain the fish and add it to 
the lettuce ; add mayonnaise ; garnish with 
lemon-peel rings, hard-boiled eggs, etc., and 
serA'e. 

Corn Salad, or Fetticus. — Carefully 
pick over two quarts of fetticus ; reject all 
damaged leaves ; wash, and dry in a napkin. 
Place in a salad-bowl ; add a pint of minced 
celery and two hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine ; finally add a plain dressing, toss, and 
serve. 

Crab Salad.— Boil three dozen hard-shell 
crabs for twenty-five minutes. Let them 
cool, then remove the top shell and tail ; 
quarter the remainder, and pick out the 
meat carefully with a nut-picker or kitchen 



1 8 CRAY-FISH SALAD. 

fork. The large claws should not be for- 
gotten, for they contain a dainty morsel ; 
the fat that adheres to the top shell should 
not be overlooked. Cut up an amount of 
celery equal in bulk to the crab meat ; mix 
both together with a few spoonfuls of plain 
salad dressing ; then put it in a salad-bowl. 
Mask it with a mayonnaise ; garnish with 
crab-claws, shrimps, and hard-boiled eggs, 
alternated with tufts of green, such as pars- 
ley, etc. 

Cray-fish Salad.— Cray-lish (or craw-fish) 
resemble small lobsters ; they are excellent 
as a salad, and are extensively used in gar- 
nishing fish salads. Boil two dozen cray- 
fish for fifteen minutes in water slightly 
salted ; break the shells in two ; pick out 
the tail part of each ; cut it in two length- 
wise ; remove the black ligament. Put into 
a salad-bowl the small white leaves of a 
head of cabbage-lettuce ; add the fish ; pour 
over them a mayonnaise. Garnish with the 
head part of the shells, tufts of green, and 
hard-boiled eggs. 

Cress Salad.— Cress is one of our best 
spring salads. Pick the leaves over care- 
fully, removing the bruised leaves and all 
large stems. Mince a young spring onion : 



CUCUMBER SALAD. I9 

Strew it over the cress, add a, plain dressing, 
and ser\-e. 

Cucumber Salad.— If properly prepared, 
cucumbers are not apt to interfere with 
digestion. They should be gathered early 
in the morning and kept in a cool place im- 
til wanted. After peeling, slice them very 
thin ; sprinkle a little salt over them ; let 
stand ten minutes, and add cayenne, and 
equal parts of oil and vinegar. If allowed 
to remain in salt water any length of time, 
if oil is omitted, or if their natural juices 
are squeezed out of them, they become in- 
digestible. 

Currant Salad.— Put a pint of red cur- 
rants in the centre of a compote. Around 
them make a border of a pint of white cur- 
rants, and around these arrange a border of 
red raspberries. Set the dish on the table. 
Take a pint of sweet cream, add to it three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; stir it 
up to dissolve the sugar ; while doing so add 
a tablespoonful each of brandy and curagoa. 
Set the sauce on the table ; dish up the 
fruit ; and let each guest help himself to 
the sauce. 

Dandelion Salad.— A dandelion salad is 
one of the healthiest of spring salads. Take 



20 DUMAS SALAD. 

two quarts of freshly gathered dandelions ; 
wash them well ; pick them over carefully ; 
let stand in water over night, as this im- 
proves them. Drain, and dry in a napkin ; 
place them in a salad-bowl ; add two young 
spring onions, minced. Serve with a plain 
dressing. 

Dumas Salad (Devised by Alexandre 
Dumas). — " Put in a salad-bowl a yolk of 
egg boiled hard ; add a tablespoonful of oil, 
and make a paste of it ; then add a few 
stalks of chervil chopped fme, a teaspoon- 
ful each of tunny and anchovy paste, a little 
French mustard, a small pickled cucumber 
chopped fine, the Avhite of the egg chopped 
fme, and a little soy. Mix the whole well 
with two tablespoonfuls of wine vinegar ; 
then add two or three steamed potatoes 
sliced, a few slices of beet, same of celeriac, 
same of rampion, salt and Hungarian pep- 
per to taste ; toss gently twenty minutes, 
then serve." 

Eels, Mayonnaise of.— Put into a salad- 
bowl two heads of bleached endiv^e, each 
leaf having been previously examined. Take 
six pieces of potted eels about two inches 
long ; remove the bone ; break the eels into 
neat pieces, and arrange them on the en* 



EGG SALAD. 21 

dive ; add a mayonnaise, garnisli, and 
serve. 

Egg Salad.— Put into a salad-bowl the 
small crisp leaves of a head of lettuce ; add 
four hard-boiled eggs sliced. Mince a dozen 
capers ; sprinkle over the eggs, and add a 
plain dressing. 

Endive Salad.— The curled endive is ex- 
cellent for fall and winter salads. Pick the 
leaves over carefully ; separate the green 
from the white ; put the latter into a salad- 
bowl, add minced salad herbs, and a suspi- 
cion of onion. Serve with plain dressing. 

Escarole Sa,lad.— This is one of the best 
salads known. Serve it as follows : Take 
two heads of escarole ; reject all green and 
decayed leaves ; place the white bleached 
leaves in a salad-bowl, after being thoroughly 
washed and dried in a napkin ; take a small 
piece of crust of bread, and a clove of gar- 
lic, dip the garlic in salt and rub it a 
few times on the bread ; add the piece of 
bread to the salad-bowl. Next add half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pep- 
per, and fourtablespoonfuls of the very best 
olive oil ; toss the salad gently ; then add 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; toss 
again ; remove the piece of crust, which is 



2 2 FROG SALAD. 

known as "Chapon," and serve. Escarole 
is ihe broad-leaved variety of the well-known 
endive. 

Frog Salad..— This is a delicious salad. 
Soak two dozen frogs' legs in salt water ios. 
one hour ; drain ; stew them slowly until 
quite tender ; take them out of the boiling 
water and cover them with milk. Let this 
come to a boil ; drain and cool ; remove the 
bones. Cut up celery enough to half fill a 
salad-bowl ; add the frogs which should 
nearly fill the bowl. Arrange neatly ; cover 
with mayonnaise ; garnish with lobster- 
claws, little tufts of shrimps, and green 
herbs, alternated with hard-boiled eggs 
quartered lengthwise. 

Herbs, Salad.— The most important de- 
sideratum (except possibly pure condiments) 
in the art of salad making, is those little 
salad herbs that to many appear insignifi- 
cant, but to the epicure perfect a salad. All 
travellers tell us that French salads are far 
superior to the salads of other countries ; 
but without fragrant herbs the French salads 
would be as insipid as those of England. I 
strongly advise my readers to cultivate a 
taste for these precious little herbs : Tarra- 
gon, borage, chervil, chives, and pimpernell. 



HERRING SALAD. 23 

Herring Salad.— Soak four salt Holland 
herrings in water or milk for three hours ; 
then remove the skin and back-bone and cut 
them into neat square pieces. Slice two 
quarts of boiled potatoes; while hot, put them 
into a dish and pour over them Rhine wine 
enough to moisten them ; when cold add the 
herring and the yolks of four hard-boiled 
eggs, chopped up. Crush a dozen pep- 
per corns in a napkin, v,ith a knife-handle, 
add to the salad and mix ail together. If 
milt herring are used, pound the milt to a 
paste, moisten with vinegar, add to the salad. 
If roe herring are used, soak the roc in vin- 
egar for a few minutes and strew the eggs 
over the salad. If the herrings have bec-i 
soaked too long a little salt should be added. 
The above is a true herring salad, though 
some add a little oil, but the majority pre- 
fer it as above directed. 

Hop Salad.— Hop-sprouts are not only 
wholesome but are a most excellent vege- 
table. In hop-growing districts the surplus 
sprouts are thrown away. This is an error. 
Gather the sprouts before the heads de- 
velop, soak them for half an hour in water 
slightly salted ; drain ; boil for ten min- 
utes, and serve them with a plain salad 



24 ITALIAN SALAD. 

dressing. They may be eaten either hot oi 
cold. 

Italian Salad.— Nearly all mixed vegeta- 
ble salads that contain various ingredients 
may be safely called a r Italienne^ for all culi- 
nary odds and ends are made into salads by 
these thrifty people, and it must not for an 
instant be supposed that the different item? 
are thrown indifferently together. On the 
contrary, they study the all-important prob- 
lem of how to first please the eye, so that 
their gastronomic effort may more easily 
please the palate. A salad of eight or ten 
ingredients is usually arranged on a round 
plate, wheel fashion, with half of a hard- 
boiled ^^^^ cut crosswise, to represent a 
hub. When only five ingredients are used, 
the salad takes the forms of stars or other 
shapes as fancy dictates. They are usually 
served with plain salad dressing. 

Lamb Salad.— In hot weather this salad 
is very acceptable. Put into a salad-bowl 
the crisp small centre leaves of two heads 
of cabbage lettuce. Cut up three-fourths 
of a pound of cold roast lamb, add to the 
lettuce. Chop up a dozen capers with a few 
tarragon leaves ; strew over the salad ; serve? 
with a plain salad dressing. 



LETTUCE SALAD. 25 

Lettuce Salad.— Take two good sized 
heads of the broad- or long-leaved varieties 
of lettuce ; separate the leaves ; wipe them 
carefully to remove all grit ; break or tear 
each leaf apart (do not cut lettuce) ; put 
them in a salad-bowl ; add oil, pepper, and 
salt, and a teaspoonful of chopped herbs ; 
toss lightly. Now add the vinegar, toss 
again, and serve immediately. — For propor- 
tions see Plain Salad Dressing. 

Lobster Salad.— Take two live hen or 
female lobsters ; boil them thirty minutes ; 
drain. When cold, break them apart ; crack 
the claws, and if the tail fins are covered 
with eggs remove them carefully. Take 
out the sand pouch found near the head, 
split the fleshy part of the tail in two length- 
wise, remove the small long entrail found 
therein. Adhering to the body-shell may 
be found a layer of creamy fat, save this, 
and also the green fat in the body of the 
lobster (called Tom Alley by New England- 
crs) and the coral. If celery is used, tear 
the lobster into sh reads with forks ; if let- 
tuce, cut the lobster into half inch pieces ; 
place the salad herb in a bowl, add the lob- 
ster and the fat ; and pour over it a rich 
mayonnaise ; garnish with the claws and 



26 MELON SALAD. 

lieads, tiifis of green, hard-boiled eggs, etc. 
The lobster eggs may be separated and 
sprinkled over the mayonnaise. The coral 
is used for coloring mayonnaise, and also 
butter, which is then used in decorating 
salmon and other dark fish, used in salads. 

Melon Salad.— The best Avay to eat a 
melon is unquestionably with a little salt, 
but melons are very deceptive, they may 
look delicious, but from growing in the 
same field with squashes and other vegeta- 
bles they often taste insipid. Such may be 
made quite palatable in salads. Cut the 
melon into strips ; then remove the skin ; 
cut the eatable part into pieces, and send to 
table with a plain dressing. 

Mint Salad.— This is an egg salad with 
the addition of six leaves of mint chopped 
fine, serve with a plain dressing, and with or 
after cold roast lamb. 

Orange Salads.— Peel and slice three 
oranges that have been on ice. Remove the 
seeds, arrange the slices in a compote, cover 
v.-ith powdered sugar, and add two table- 
spoonfuls each of maraschino, curagoa, and 
brandy. Let it stand an hour in the ice-box 
before serving. Or, arrange in a dish a 
iieat border of cold boiled rice, Peel and 



OYSTER SALAt). 27 

divide into sections three Florida oranges ; 
put the oranges in the centre, dust po\v» 
dered sugar over all, and set the dish in the 
ice box. Just before serving pour over the 
salad two wineglassfuls of arrack. A plain 
salad dressing is served with orange salad in 
some places in the East, but would not suit 
the American palate. 

Oyster Salad.— Boil two dozen small oys- 
ters for five minutes in water enough to cover 
them ; add a little salt and a tablespoonful 
of vinegar ; drain and cool. Put into a salad- 
bowl the centre leaves of two heads of cab- 
bage lettuce, add the oysters whole, pour 
over them a mayonnaise ; garnish with oys- 
ter-crabs, hard-boiled eggs, and, if liked, a 
few anchovies cut into fillets. 

Pigeon Sa,lad.— Wild pigeons are at times 
so plentiful that they can be purchased for 
75 cents per dozen. They are usually sensed 
broiled, roasted, or in pies ; but pigeon salad 
is a very dainty dish. Take equal parts of 
celery and roasted pigeon ; arrange neatly, 
with mayonnaise ; garnish and serve. 

Pineapple Salad.— Peel and dig out the 
eyes of two very ripe pineapples. Take 
hold of the crown of the pine with the left 
hand ; take a fork in the rioht hand and 



25 POTATO SATAT). 

with it tear the pine into shreds until there 
is nothing left but the core, which throw 
away. Place the shredded fruit lightly in a 
compote. Take half a pint of white sugar 
syrup ; add to it a wineglassful of arrack, a 
tablespoonful of brandy, and one of cura^oa. 
Mix and pour over the pines. Set in ice- 
box. Wlien cold, serve. 

Potato Salad.— Cut up into slices two 
quarts of boiled potatoes while hot ; add to 
them a teaspoonful each of chopped onion 
and parsley ; pour over them a liberal quan- 
tity of plain salad dressing. If the potatoes 
should then appear too dry, add a little hot 
water, or better still, soup stock ; toss lightly 
so as not to break the slices ; then place 
the salad on ice to become cold. Serve by 
placing a leaf of lettuce on each small 
plate, and add two tablespoonfuls of the po- 
tato to the lettuce, for each person. Cold 
boiled potatoes do not make a good potato 
salad. 

Prawn Salad.— These dainties can al- 
ways be obtained in Fulton Market, cooked 
and shelled. Take one quart of prawns and 
one quart and a pint of cut celery ; put the 
celery in a bowl ; add the prawns ; garni^l; 
neatly and serve w^ith a mayonnaise. 



RABBIT SALAD. 29 

Rabbit Salad.— Rabbits are always cheap 
and good, from November to January, and 
should be enjoyed by the poor as well as 
the rich. Cut up the flesh of two roasted 
rabbits into neat pieces ; place them in a 
bowl and cover with a plain dressing ; add 
a teaspoonful of minced salad herbs ; let 
stand for four hours. Put into a salad-bowl 
the leaves of three hearts (;f cabbage let- 
tuce ; drain the meat, and add to the let- 
tuce. Put into a soup plate a teaspoonful of 
French mustard ; thin it with a tablespoon- 
ful of the dressing drained from the meat, 
and gradually add to this a pint of mayon- 
naise, then poor it over the salad. 

Salmon Salads. — Broil two salmon 
steaks ; when done break the fish into flakes 
and add to it a little salt, pepper, and two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Let stand 
for an hour. Half fill a salad-bowl with let- 
tuce ; add the fish, and garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs, stoned olives, and a few spired 
oysters. 

No. 2. — Put into a salad-bowl three stalks 
of celery, sliced ; add half a poimd of canned 
salmon ; arrange neatly ; Jidd mayonnaise ; 
garnish and seiwe. 

No. 3. — Boil a six-pound salmon, whole ; 



30 SARDINE SALAD. 

when done and cold place it on a long fish- 
platter ; prepare a red mayonnaise (see 
lobster salad) ; fill a paper cornucopia with 
the sauce and squeeze it through the small 
end over the fish in waves, to represent 
scales. Garnish with the small centre hearts 
of lettuce, hard-boiled eggs, cray-fish, and 
little mounds of shrimps or oyster crabs. 

Sardine Salad.— Wash the oil from six 
sardines, remove skiu and bone and pour a 
little lemon juice over them. Put into a 
salad-bowl the leaves of a head of crisp let- 
tuce ; add the fish. Chop up two hard- 
boiled eggs, add to the fish, and serve with 
a plain dressing. Some do not approve of 
the Avashing process, but one of the princi- 
pal reasons Vv'hy Americans dislike oil is the 
fact that they first tasted it on sardines with 
which a poor fish-oil is generally used, and 
the reason that the trade in sardines has fal- 
len off, is owing to the poor oil used in the 
canning of these otherwise dainty fish. 

Scollop Salad.— Soak twenty-five scol- 
lops in salt water for half an hour ; rinse 
them in cold water and boil twenty minutes ; 
drain. Cut themi into thin slices ; mix with 
an equal quantity of sliced celery ; cover 
with mayonnaise, garnish, and serve. 



TOMATO SALAD. 31 

Tomato Salad.— A perfect tomato salac? 
is prepared as follows : Take three fine 
ripe August tomatoes and scald them a mo- 
ment ; skin, and set on ice to cool ; slice ; 
put them into a salad-bowl ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped tarragon and a plain salad 
dressing. Sliced tomatoes with mayonnaise 
are not to be despised. 



E. C.'s Salad Dressing. 

Pour one pint of boiling water into a fa- 
rina boiler ; add six tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar ; place on the stove. Beat six eggs 
lightly. Mix, with a little cold water, two 
tablespoonfuls of mustard, two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and 
one heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch. 

Beat this mixture up with the eggs, and 
stir it very slowly into the boiling water and 
vinegar, after having removed the latter 
from the stove— in order to prevent possi- 
bility of curdling. Return to the stove ; 
stir constantly until quite thick. Remove 
from the stove, and add immediately half a 
pound of butter; stir until the butter is thor- 
oughly melted. Now put the yolks of two 



32 S. F. S SHRniP FALAD. 

eggs on a phiLe, and, using a fork, mix grad- 
ually with them half a pint of olive-oil, stir- 
ring it in vigorously. When the first mix- 
ture is cold, beat the second into it. If 
more oil is desired, the yolk of another egg 
must be mixed with it. 

This recipe will make about one quart of 
dressing. If less is wished, part of the first 
mixture can be saved in a cool place, and 
can be used later by making a fresh supply 
of the olive-oil mixed with yolk of cs;g. 

S. F.'s Shrimp Salad.— Boil a quart of 
fresh shrimps for twenty minutes. Open 
and throw aw^ay the shells. Take the crisp 
leaves of a head of lettuce, and place in a 
salad-bowl with two fresh tomatoes peeled 
and sliced. Add the shrimps and po^ir over 
all a mayonnaise — red, if convenient — and 
serve. 



BREAKFAST DAINTIES 



CONTENTS 



REMARKS ON BREAKFAST COOK 
ERY, 

FRUITS. 

Apples, Baked, 

Bananas, 

Blackberries, Raspberries, etc 

Cantaloupes, 

Cherries, 

Currants, . 

Figs and Dates, 

Grapes, 

Melons, 

Oranges, 

Peaches, 

Pears, 

Pineapples, 

Plums, 

Strawberries, . 

Miscellaneous, 

BEVERAGES. 
Coffee, . 

''After Dinner" Coffee, 
Boiling Water for Coffee. 



II 
1 1 
1 1 
1 1 

12 
12 



13 

13 
13 
14 
14 
14 
14 



18 



CONTEXTS. 





PAGE 


Tea, 


i8 


Cocoa and Chocolate, 


. i8 


BREAD, ETC. 




Bread, .... 


. 20 


" Home-made" Bread and Rolls, 


23 


Salt, .... 


23 


Maize, or Indian Corn, 


. 24 


Corn Bread, 


25 


Corn Meal Custard, 


• 25 


^'Boston Brown Bread," 


26 


Maize Muffins, 


. 26 


Graham Muffins, 


27 


Breakfast Biscuit, . 


• 27 


Milk Bread, 


27 


Rolled Wheat Biscuit, 


. 28 


To Test the Oven, 


2S 


TOAST. 




Dry Toast, 


• 29 


Dip Toast, 


29 


Milk Toast, 


. 30 


Anchovy Toast, . 


30 


Clam Toast, . . . 


. 30 


Marrow Bone Toast, 


30 


Oyster Toast, 


• 31 


Salmon Toast, . . . 


31 


Tongue Toast, 


. 31 



CONTENTS. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 

To Test Eggs, 
Baked Eggs, 
Omelets, 
Cheese Omelet, 
Omelet with Herbs, 
Onion Omelet, 
Oyster Omelet, . 
Omelette au Rhum, 
Spanish Omelet, . 
Sweet Omelet, 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes in General, 
Boiled Potatoes, 
Lyonnaise Potatoes, 
Potatoes au Cochon, 
Potatoes au Gratin, 
Potatoes, Sauteed, . 



PAGE 

• 3- 
32 

• 34 
34 

• 34 
34 

• 35 
35 

. 36 



36 
37 

38 
38 
38 



MISCELLANEOUS BREAKFAST 
DISHES. 

Artichokes (French), . . 39 

Artichokes (French), Fried, . 39 

Chicken Croquettes, . . 40 

Chicken, Devilled, . . .40 

Chicken, Fried, ... 40 



CONTEXTS. 



Crabs, Soft-Shell, 

Filet of Sole ; Sauce Tartare, 

Hamburg Steak, . 

Hominy Fritters, 

Kidney, Sauteed, . 

Lamb Chops with French Peas, 

Mushrooms on Toast, 

Mutton Chops with Fried Toma 

toes, 
Oysters, Broiled, 
Pork and Beans, 
Reed Birds, 
Salt Codfish, Broiled, 
Sardines, Broiled, 
Sauce Tartare, 
Sausages, . 
Smelts, Broiled, 
Smelts, Fried, 
Squabs, . 



Steak, Tenderloin ; Sauce 



Bear 



NAISE, , 

Steak, Sirloin ; Sauce Bordelaise 

Tomato Sauce, 

Tripe with Oysters, . 

Tripe, Lyonnaise, 

Turkey, Minced, with Poached Egg, 44 



41 

42 
42 
43 
43 
43 
45 

45 
46 
46 
48 
49 
49 
49 
50 
50 
50 
50 

51 

52 
52 
53 
53 



Veal Cutlet, Sauce Robert. 



53 



REMARKS ON 
BREAKFAST COOKERY. 



''^Dinner viay be pleasant. 
So may social tea ; 
But yet inethinks the breakfast 
Is best of all the three.'' 

The importance of preparing a variety of 
dainty dishes for the breakfast-table is but 
hghtly considered by many who can afford lux- 
uries^ quite as much as by those who httle 
dream of the dehghtful, palate-pleasing com- 
pounds made from " unconsidered trifles." 

The desire of the average man is to remain in 
bed until the very last moment. A hurried 
breakfast of food long cooked awaits the late 
riser, who will not masticate it properly when he 
finally arrives at the breakfast-table, and the best 
of housekeepers is discouraged and prevented 
from ever attempting culinary surprises, when 
they are not to be appreciated. In this way she 
is innocentlv driven into a rut from which it is 



lO REMARKS^ ON BREAKFAST COOKERY. 

difficult to escape when occasions present them- 
selves for offering novelties. 

The following recipes and remarks will be 
found valuable assistants to those so situated, 
and will offer many practical suggestions intend- 
ed to develop ingenuity and skilfulness in this 
much -neglected branch of cookery. Avoid ask- 
ing that innocent but often annoying question, 
"What shall we have for breakfast.?" Rely 
upon your own resources and inventiveness, and 
you will -soon master the situation. The aver- 
age business man generally knows but little oi 
what is or is not in market, and he dislikes to 
have his gastronomic knowledge constantly 
analyzed. 

Should your domestic duties prevent you from 
occasionally visiting the public markets, it will 
be found expedient to subscribe for a reliable 
newspaper that makes a specialty of reporting 
the latest gastronomic news. This cannot be 
accomplished by cook-books, owing to the fluc- 
tuations in prices and the constant arrival of 
" good cheer" at seasons when least expected. 

Steaks and chops are looked upon as the sub- 
stantials of the breakfast-table, but when served 
cominually they do not give satisfaction, be they 
ever so good, and are not duly appreciated un- 
less interspersed occasionally with lighter dishes. 



BAKED APPLES. II 



FRUITS. 



Apples, Baked.— Peel and core six large 
sour apples ; mix together a cup of sugar, half a 
teaspoonful of mixed ground spice, a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of grated cracker 
crumbs, and two tablespoonfuls of milk or wa- 
ter. Fill the core with the mixture ; put the 
apples in a pan, and bake : serve them hot or 
cold with sweetened cream. A border of whipped 
cream around the apples may be substituted for 
the plain cream. 

Apples may be served sliced, covered with 
sugar and a mild liquor poured over them, and 
topped off with whipped cream. 

Bananas.— Select short, thick, red or yellow 
bananas ; peel and cut them in quarters length- 
wise ; serve on a napkin. 

Blackberries, Raspberries, Whortle- 
berries, etc., are too well known to require in- 
structions as to how they should be served ; but 
a word of caution is necessary. They should 
be very thoroughly examined before they are 
served ; all stems, bruised berries, and unripe 
fruit should be removed, and a thorough search 
made for minute particles of grit and for insects. 

Cantaloupes, or small melons, should be 



12 CHERRIES. 

placed on ice the night preceding their use. 
Cut or slice off the top of each melon ; remove 
the seeds, and replace them with fine ice ; re- 
place the covers, and send to table looking as 
though uncut. 

Should they taste insipid, trim off the rind, 
cut the remainder into neat pieces, pour over 
them a plain salad-dressing, and they will be 
found quite palatable. 

Cherries.— If large, fine-looking fruit, serve 
them plain ; but they must be cold to be palat- 
able. Keep them on ice over night, or serve 
glasses of fine ice to each guest, with the fruit 
arranged on top of it. 

Currants.— Large, fine clusters should be 
served on the stem, arranged on a fruit-stand 
alone, or in layers alternated with mulberries, 
raspberries, or other seasonable fruits. Serve 
with powdered sugar. 

Figs and Dates may be served at breakfast. 

Grapes.— Malaga, Tokay, Hamburg, and 
similar varieties of grapes should be well rinsed 
in ice-water, and cut into small bunches with 
fruit scissors. Place on a glass dish, or dishes 
surrounded by fine ice, and, if plentiful, do not 
divide the clusters, but drain them out of ice- 
water. Serve on a neatly-folded napkin, a 
bunch for each guest. 



MELONS. 13 

Melons.— The best way to eat melons is un- 
questionably with a Httle salt ; they should be 
kept over night in an ice-box and served at the 
following breakfast ; but melons are very de- 
ceptive ; diey may look delicious, but, from 
growing in or near the same garden where 
squashes and pumpkins are raised, they often 
taste as insipid as these vegetables would if eaten 
raw. In this case they are made very palatable 
by cutting the edible part into slices, and serv- 
ing them with plain dressing of oil, vinegar, 
pepper, and salt. 

Oranges.— Of the many ways of serving 
oranges, I prefer them sliced. If in summer, 
keep them cold until wanted. Remove all 
seeds, and cut large slices in two. Mandarins are 
served whole, with the peel scored but not re- 
moved. 

Peaches.— If the peaches are large and per- 
fect do not slice them, but serve them whole ; 
wipe or brush off the feathery coating, arrange 
them neatly on the fruit-dish, and decorate 
them with fresh green leaves and flowers. 

Sliced peaches turn a rusty brown color if 
allowed to stand after cutting them. Should 
this occur, cover them with whipped cream 
properly sweetened. 

Pears.— Fine-flavored pears should be served 



14 PINEAPPLES. 

Avhole ; inferior pears, sliced and dredged with 
sugar ; the}' are acceptable when mixed with 
other fruits. 

Pineapples are best served as a salad. Pare 
and dig out the eyes ; take hold of the crown of 
the pine with the left hand ; take a fork in the 
right hand, and with it tear the pine into shreds, 
until the core is reached, which throw away. 
Arrange the shredded fruit lightly in a compote, 
add a liberal quantity of powdered sugar, a wine- 
glassful of Curacoa, and half a wine-glassful of 
brandy. 

Alternate layers of shredded pineapple and 
fresh cocoanut served with a sauce of orange 
juice, seasoned with sugar and liquors, is excel- 
lent. 

Plums are too often picked before they are 
quite ripe, which prevents them from becoming 
popular as a breakfast fruit ; this is true of 
Apricots also. 

Stra-wberries are often objectionable, ow- 
ing to grit ; wash, or rather rinse them in water, 
drain on a napkin, and serve with vanilla- 
flavored whipped cream for a change. 

Nearly all tropical fruits that are imported are 
excellent breakfast fruits, such as the alligator 
pear, Lechosa prickly pear, pomegranate, tropi- 
cal mango, and many others. 



COFFEE. 15 

BEVERAGES. 

Coffee.— The coffee-tree is a much-branched 
tree of the cinchona family, not exceeding twen- 
ty feet in height, and much resembling a cherry- 
tree. Its pale green leaves are about six inches 
in length. The flowers are in clusters in the 
axils of the leaves, are white in color, resembling 
orange-tree flowers, and perfume the air. The 
fruit on ripening turns from green to red, and 
is about the size of a cherry or cranberry, each 
containing two seeds closely united by their flat 
sides. These being removed and separated, be- 
come the coffee of commerce. 

"How to make good coffee" is the great 
problem of domestic life. Tastes naturally 
differ, and some prefer a quantity of chicory, 
while to others the very name of this most 
wholesome plant (but keep it out of coffee) will 
produce nausea. 

Purchase coffee from large dealers who roast 
it daily. Have it ground moderately fine, and 
do not purchase large quantities at a time. At 
home keep the coffee in air-tight jars or cans 
when not in use. 

The old-fashioned coffee-pot has much to 
recommend it, and the only possible objection 



l6 COFFEE. 

to it IS that it makes a cloudy beverage. Those 
who find this objectionable should use one of 
the many patented modern filters. When the 
coffee is finely ground these filter-pots are the 
best to use. Put three ounces of finely-ground 
coffee in the top compartment of the coffee-pot ; 
pour a quart of boiling water over it ; let it filter 
through ; add half a pint more of boiling wa- 
ter ; let it filter through, and pour it out into a 
hot measure, and pour it through the filter 
again. Let it stand a moment on the range, 
and you have coffee as clear as wine ; but unless 
your pot, measure, and the water are very hot, 
the coffee will taste as though it had become 
cold and then " warmed over." No eggs or 
other foreign substances are used to clear or 
settle the coffee. 

As I do not object to a sediment in my cup, 
I use the old-fashioned coffee- ])0t. I first heat 
the pot, and put the coffee into a loose muslin 
bag, and pour a quart of boiling water over 
ever)' three ounces of coffee. I let it boil, or 
rather come to a boiling point a moment ; then 
let it stand to settle. Should it not do so rapidly 
enough, I pour a few tablespoonfuls of cold 
water round the inside edge of the coffee-pot. 
It is advisable to tie a thread to the bag, with 



AFTER-DINNER COFFEE. 1 7 

which it may be drawn out oi the coffee, if de- 
sired. 

Now, heat the coffee cup ; fill it one third full 
of hot, but not boiled, cream ; then add the 
coffee, and serve. 

One word as to eggs used in making coffee. 
I admit that a different flavor is produced when 
they are used ; but the albumen of the eggs cov- 
ers the coffee grains, and coagulates, preventing 
the escape of the properties of the coffee, and 
compelling one to use nearly double the quan- 
tity of coffee to produce the same result as when 
eggs are not used. 

Pure Java, if of a high order, does not need 
other brands of coffee to make it palatable ; 
but, as a rule, most of the coffees sold at the 
grocers' are improved by blending or mixing 
one third each of pure Mocha, Java, and ]\Iara- 
caibo to make a rich cup of coffee, while a mixt- 
ure of two thirds ]\Iandehling Java and one third 
" male berry" (so called) Java produces excel- 
lent results. Mexico coffee is quite acceptable, 
but the producers inust clean it properly if they 
expect to receive patronage. 

'• After-dinner Coffee."— Use three ounces 
of finely-ground coffee to a pint of boiling water. 
Old Government Java does make a very satisfac- 
tory cup of after-dinner coffee. The after-dinner 



1 8 BOILING WATER. 

coffee found at most of the first-class restaurants 
in New York, such as the Brunswick, etc., con- 
tains chicory. 

Boiling "Water is a very important desider- 
atum in the making of good coffee. The water 
should be fresh from the main pipe, boiled two 
or three minutes, and then added to the coffee. 
Servants frequently use water drawn from the 
range boiler, or water that has stood long in the 
tea-kettle ; in either case the coffee will be in- 
sipid. 

Tea.— The constituents of tea are very much 
the same as those of coffee — theine (an aromatic 
oil), sugar and gum, and a form of tannic acid. 
Green tea is more astringent than the other varie- 
ties, partly because it contains more tannin, and 
partly because it is sophisticated to adapt it to a 
peculiar taste. 

Whatever variety of tea used, do not allow the 
beverage to boil ; put the tea in a black earthen 
tea-pot previously heated ; pour boiling water 
over it ; let it draw for two minutes, and the proc- 
ess is at an end. Charitable institutions would 
find it advantageous to grind tea to powder ; in 
this way one half the quantity of tea ordinarily 
used is saved. 

Cocoa and Chocolate are obtained from 
the seeds of Theobrorna cacao. The active prin- 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. 1 9 

ciple is theobromine, a substance which resem- 
bles the alkaloids of coffee and tea, except that 
it contains more nitrogen than theine and 
caffeine. Another important difference between 
cacao (not cocoa) and coffee or tea is the large 
amount of fat or cacao-butter contained in the 
bean. 

The seed receptacle resembles a large black 
cucumber, containing from ten to thirty leaves, 
which are roasted like coffee. The husks are 
then taken off, and are called cacao shells. The 
best cacao is made from the bean after the husks 
are removed. 

Chocolate is the finely-ground powder from 
the kernels mixed to a paste, with or without 
sugar. The product of this seed, being rich in 
fatty matters, is more difficult to digest, and 
many dyspeptics cannot use it unless the fats 
have been removed, which is now done by 
manufacturers. Nearly all brands of cacao and 
chocolate are recommended to be prepared at 
table ; but it is much better to prepare them be- 
fore the meal, and allow it to boil at least once 
before servino:. 



BREAD. 



BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 

Bread. — The word is derived from the Anglo- 
Saxon bracan, to bruise, to pound, which is ex- 
pressive of the ancient mode of preparing the 
grain. Bread was not introduced into Rome 
until five hundred and fifty years after its founda- 
tion. Pliny informs us that the Romans learned 
this, with many other improvements, during the 
war with Perseus, King of ]\Iacedon. The 
armies, on their return, brought Grecian bakers 
with them into Italy, who were called pisfores, 
from their ancient practice of bruising the grain 
in mortars. 

The Greeks ascribed the invention of bread- 
making to Pan ; but the Chaldeans and Egyp- 
tians were acquainted with it at a still more re- 
mote period. In the paintings discovered in the 
tombs of Egypt the various processes used by 
them in bread-making are distinctly represented. 

Bread from wheat was first made in China, 

2000 B.C. 

An extensive variety of substances is used in 
making bread ; the roots, shoots, bark, flowers, 
fruits, and seeds of trees and plants have been, 
and are still, made into bread bv semi-civilized 



BREAD. 21 

races. In Iceland codfish is dried and beaten to 
a powder, and made into bread. 

Bread is universally admitted to be a matter 
deserving the serious consideration of all good 
housewives. It is no longer a luxury, as in 
olden times, but a positive necessity ; upon it 
depends the health of all mankind. It is, there- 
fore, highly important that its ingredients should 
be of the very best quality. At no time is this 
question more seriously to be considered than 
when changing the food of infants from liquids 
to solid food. 

Bakers* bread cannot always be relied upon. 
One never knows to what extent the ilour has 
been mixed with brands of flour made from 
musty or sprouted wheat, as the baker can make 
what appears to be good bread from these by 
mixing them with what is known as garlic flour, 
which is a grade of flour ground with garlic, the 
effect being to conceal other unpleasant odors. 

Their flour is often stored in damp cellars, 
where, under the influence of heat that is not 
strong enough to expel moisture, fermentation 
takes place in it, exactly as it does in bread- 
making, except on a smaller scale. 

Any flour containing too much moisture is 
likely to " heat,'' or sour, and flour of the best 
quality, when placed in damp, stuffy cellars, 



22 BREAD. 

where it will absorb moisture, is likely to do the 
same thing. The yeast used by many bakers is 
deserving the attention of the Health Department. 
Damaged hops are often used, which, when 
boiled too long, impart their obnoxious flavor 
to the yeast, and to the bread made from it. 

If what is known as " head yeast" be allowed 
to ferment too far— as is often the case — it will 
sour the stock yeast ; or if the fermentation be 
too feeble, the result in either case will be un- 
healthy bread. 

Potatoes used in making "potato ferment" 
are often of a very inferior quality, and impart 
their rankness to the bread. When bread is 
sold by weight an excess of water is introduced 
to brands of dry flour, which absorb more than 
others, and the result is heav}^, dark, pasty 
bread, which is often sour. 

By the producer of inferior bread these litde 
items are not taken into consideration. The 
bread has been made, and it must be sold ; and 
the unsuspecting housewife who buys bread from 
certain bakers because they sell it a few cents 
less per loaf than the price asked by firms who 
will not jeopardize their reputations, is endan- 
gering the health of her family. 

I particularly warn my readers against bakers 
seeking customers by cutting rates ; they cannot 



HOME-MADE BREAD. 23 

supply good bread at low rates without using 
inferior flour. 

Home-made Bread.— To make good bread 
or rolls, take five potatoes ; peel and cut them 
up, and boil in water enough to cover them ; 
when done, mash them smooth in the water in 
which they were boiled ; when cool, not cold, 
add a gill of liquid yeast, a dessert-spoonful of 
sugar, a salt-tablespoonful of lard, and a pint of 
flour. ]Mix together lighdy until it is of a pasty, 
sticky consistency ; cover and set it in a warm 
place to rise ; it will rise in two or three hours, 
and should look almost like yeast. Stir into 
this three pints of flour and, if necessary, a little 
cold water ; the dough should be rather soft, 
and need not be kneaded more than half an 
hour. Set in a moderately warm place for four 
hours ; it is now ready to be shaped into loaves 
and baked ; but it is better to push it down 
from the sides of the bread-pan, and let it rise 
again and again, until the third time, which is 
ample. Knead until smooth, and if too soft, 
add a little more flour. For rolls, roll out and 
cut into rounds. Use the rolling-pin slightly, 
batter, and fold. Baking-pans should be well 
greased. 

Salt is always used in bread-making, not 
onlv on account of its flavor, which destrovs the 



24 MAIZE UR INDIAN CORN. 

insipid, raw taste of the flour, but because it 
makes the dough rise better. It is therefore 
highly important that it should be of th-e best 
quality, as it has an atlinity for the kidneys and 
other organs, and acts upon them powerfully. 

As it is the smallest item in the expense of a 
family, no pains should be spared in procuring 
the best in market. 

American manufacturers have not as yet made 
a salt free from foreign flavors and suitable to 
delicate cookery ; its peculiar fishy flavor is ob- 
jectionable, and gives to bread a taste that leads 
the eater thereof to imagine it had been sliced 
with a fish-knife. 

Most of the leading grocers sell an English 
salt that is a very valuable assistant in bread- 
making. 

Maize or Indian Corn is the noblest of 
the cereal grasses, and deserves our liberal pat- 
ronage and constant praise. From it can be 
produced an infinite variety of nutritious food, 
from Tennyson's " dusky loaf that smelt of 
home" to the simple "hoe cake" of "Old 
Black Joe. " 

To enumerate all of the good things produced 
from corn would make a volume five times the 
size of this little book. Enough has been said 
to practically demonstrate the necessity of our 



CORN BREAD. 25 

being at all times aware of its excellent qualities, 
if we value health and subsequent happiness. 

In America no national question is of more 
importance than the success or failure of the 
corn crop. Upon it depends the success not 
only of large business enterprises, but of busi- 
ness centres. Nearly all of the important do- 
mestic animals that are used as food are fed 
upon it exclusively, and a large percentage of 
tlie population depends upon it — directly or in- 
directly — for very existence, which is conclusive 
evidence that a failure of this important cereal 
means starvation and bankruptcy to many, 
which the failure of the wheat crop would not 
effect. 

Corn Bread.— Sift half a pound each of corn 
meal and flour, add a scant teaspoonful of salt 
and a tablespoonful of wheat baking powder. 
Beat together one ounce of powdered sugar, two 
eggs, and one ounce of butter ; add these to 
the flour ; then gradually add nearly a pint of 
milk, to make a thin batter, and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Corn-meal Custard.— Beat up three eggs ; 
add to them a quart of milk and an ounce each 
of butter and sugar. Mix and add gradually a 
quarter of a pound of very fine corn meal ; flavor 
with nutmeg. Pour into custard cups, and boil 



26 BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

or Steam for ten minutes ; then put them in the 
oven a moment to brown on top. 

Boston Brown Bread.— Sift together half 
a pound each of rye and wheat flour, one 
pound of corn meal, one heaping teaspoonful of 
salt, a heaping tablespoonful of brown sugar, 
and one of wheat baking powder. Wash, peel, 
and boil two medium -sized potatoes ; rub them 
through a sieve ; thin out the potato with nearly 
a pint of water, and use this to make the batter. 
Pour it into well-greased moulds having covers ; 
set them into hot water to within two inches of 
the top of the moulds, and boil for two hours ; 
then take them out of the water, remove the 
cover, and place them in the oven for twenty 
minutes. 

A Boston brown bread preparation put up by 
the Boston Cereal Manufacturing Company is 
an article of food quite recently introduced, 
which saves much of the difficult details neces- 
sary to make this excellent New England loaf. 

Maize Muffins.— This very latest prepara- 
tion deserves special mention, as being the high- 
est and most scientific product of corn that has 
been introduced for public consideration. It is 
known as shredded maize, and from it a most 
excellent porridge can be made in ten minutes. 
Griddle cakes, sweet puddings, and especially 



GRAHAM MUFFINS. 2"] 

breakfast rolls made of it are delightful. ^Most 
excellent muffins are prepared as follows : Mix 
together one pound of shredded maize, one pint 
of hot milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and one 
ounce of butter ; let it cool, and whisk into it 
three beaten eggs, one ounce of sugar, and two 
teaspoonfuls of wheat baking powder ; mix thor- 
oughly ; half fill the muffin-rings, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

Graham Muffins.— Sift one quart of gra- 
ham flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
heaping tablespoonful of wheat baking powder ; 
add two ounces of butter and two beaten eggs, 
with milk enough to make a thin batter. ]\Iix. 
Half fill the greased muffin-rings, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Breakfast Biscuits.— Sift one quart of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a scant 
tablespoonful of wheat baking powder ; add half 
an ounce of butter ; mix together, and add milk 
enough to make a batter ; roll out the dough 
on a floured board ; dredge it with flour ; cut 
out the biscuits ; place them on a buttered tin, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Milk Bread.— Sift one and a half pounds of 
flour, a teaspoonful of salt, half an ounce of 
powdered sugar, same of melted butter, and two 
tablespoonfuls of wheat baking powder. Sim- 



28 ROLLED-WHKAT BISCUIT. 

mcr a pint of milk ; let it cool ; add it to the 
flour ; beat it with a plated knife ; shape it into 
loaves. Let stand for half an hour in well- 
greased pans, covered, then bake in a quick 
oven. 

Rolled-wheat Biscuit.— Half a pint each 
of rolled wheat and flour, one coffeespoonful of 
salt, two teaspoonfuls of wheat baking powder, 
one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and one 
teaspoonfui of lard or melted butter. Add milk 
enough to make a batter, and bake in small tins 
in a quick oven. 

To Test the Oven.— Throw on the floor of 
the oven a tablespoonful of new flour ; if it takes 
fire or assumes a dark brown color, the temper- 
ature is too high, and the oven must be allowed 
to cool. If the flour remains white after the 
lapse of a few seconds, the temperature is too 
low. When the oven is of the proper tempera- 
ture the flour will turn a brownish yellow and 
look slightlv scorched. 



TOAST. 29 



TOAST. 



Toast is very palatable and digestible when 
properly prepared. Many seem to think that 
they have made toast when they brown the out- 
side of a slice oi bread. Have they ? 

The object in making toast is to evaporate all 
moisture from the bread, and holding a slice 
over the fire to singe does not accomplish this ; 
it only warms the moisture, making the inside 
of the bread doughy and decidedly indigestible. 
The true way of preparing it is to cut the bread 
into slices a quarter of an inch thick, trim off 
all crust, put the slices in a pan or plate, place 
them in the oven — which must not be too hot — 
take them out when a delicate brown, and butter 
at once. 

For my own use I dry all home-made bread 
in this manner. 

Dry Toast should be served within the folds 
of a napkin if you wish to keep it hot ; toast- 
racks allow the heat to escape, and they are not 
recommended. 

Dip Toast. — Prepare the toast as above 
directed ; dip the edges into hot water quickly, 
and butter at once. This is also called water 
toast. 



3^ MILK TOAST. 

Milk Toast. -Wet the pan to be used with 
cold water, which prevents burning. Melt an 
ounce of floured butter ; whisk into it a pint of 
hot milk ; add a little salt ; simmer. Prepare 
four slices of toast ; put them in a deep dish 
one at a time ; pour a little of the milk over 
each, and over the last one pour the remainder 
of the milk. 

Anchovy Toast.— The best way to prepare 
this appetizing dish is as follows : Toast the 
bread and trim it neatly, and place it near the 
range to keep warm ; next prepare a " dip," as 
for ordinary cream toast ; spread a thin layer of 
anchovy paste on each slice of bread ; place in 
a hot, deep dish ; pour the prepared cream over 
them, and serve. 

Clam Toast. — Chop up two dozen small 
clams into fine pieces ; simmer for thirty min- 
utes in hot water enough to cover them. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs ; add a little cayenne 
and a gill of warmed milk ; dissolve half a tea- 
spoonful of flour in a little cold milk ; simmer 
all together ; pour over buttered toast, and 
serve. 

Marrow-bone Toast.— Procure two beet 
shin-bones about six to eight inches long ; cover 
them with dough, and ivrap them in muslin ; 
pour hot water enough to cover them, and boil 



OYSTER TOAST. 3 I 

for an hour and a half. Remove cloth and 
dough ; shake or dra\v out the marrow with a 
long-handled fork upon slices of hot toast. 
Add salt, cayenne, and, if convenient, a little 
chopped celery, and serve. 

Oyster Toast.— Select fifteen plump oys- 
ters ; chop them fine, and add salt, pepper, and 
a suspicion of nutmeg. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with a gill of cream ; whisk this into 
the simmering oysters. When set, pour the 
whole over slices of buttered toast. 

Salmon Toast.— It very often occurs that a 
can of salmon is not all used at a meal, and yet 
there is not quite enough for another meal with- 
out other dishes or ingredients added to it. 
Should this occur, mince the salmon, heat, and 
season it and serve it on toast. A poached 
egg added to it is quite acceptable. 

Tongue Toast. -A very nice dish is pre- 
pared from cold boiled or potted tongue. Slice 
the tongue, and cut each slice into small, fine 
pieces ; heat it in a pan with a little butter. To 
prevent burning, moisten with warm water or 
clear soup ; add salt and pepper ; stir into it 
two beaten eggs. When set, arrange neatly on 
toast. 

Dainty bits of roast game, fowl, etc., minced, 
warmed over, and served on toast are excellent. 



3- TO TEST EGGS. 

and show a way ol using good material tliat 
would otherwise be wasted. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 

To Test Eggs.— Dissolve an ounce of salt 
in ten ounces of water ; add the eggs. Good 
ones will sink, indifferent eggs will swim, and 
bad eggs will float, even in pure water. 

Fresh eggs are more transparent in the centre. 

Old eggs are transparent at the top. 

Eggs may be kept a long time by covering 
them with beeswax dissolved in warm olive or 
cotton -seed oil. Use one third wax to two 
thirds oil. 

Baked Eggs— Mince half a pound of lean 
boiled ham, add an equal quantity of cracker 
crumbs. Moisten and spread the mixture over 
a platter ; scoop out four round holes as large 
as an egg, and drop an egg from the shell into 
each hole ; season with salt, cayenne, and but- 
ter ; put the dish in the oven, and serve when 
the eggs are cooked. 

The crumbs should be moist enough to take 
almost a crust when baked. 

Omelets.— As a rule, an omelet is a whole- 



OMELETS ;^;^ 

some and inexpensive dish, yet one in the prep- 
aration of which cooks frequently fail, owing to 
carelessness of detail. With a little attention 
the housewife can easih' become the perfect cook 
in this branch, as well as others. 

I'iic flavoring and the ingredients used may 
be varied indefinitely ; but the principle is 
ahva}-s the same. In making an omelet care 
should be taken that the omelet pan is hot and 
dr}'. To insure this, put a small quantity of 
lard into the pan ; let it simmer a few minutes, 
and remove it ; wipe the pan dry with a towel, 
and put in a litde fresh lard, in which the omelet 
may be fried. Care should be taken that the 
lard does not burn, as it would spoil the color 
of the omelet. 

It is better to make two or three small ome- 
lets than one very large one, as the latter cannot 
be well handled by a novice. 

The omelet made of three eggs is the one 
recommended for beginners. Break the eggs 
separately ; put them into a bowl, and whisk 
them thoroughly with a fork. (The longer they 
are beaten, the lighter will be the omelet.) Add 
a teaspoonful of milk, and beat up with the 
eggs ; beat until the last moment before pour- 
ing into the pan, which should be over a hot 
lire. As soon as the omelet sets, remove the 



34 CHEESE OMELET. 

pan from the hottest part of the fire, shp a knife 
under it to prevent sticking to the pan ; when 
the centre is almost firm, slant the pan ; work 
the omelet in shape to fold easily and neady ; 
and, when slightly browned, hold a platter 
against the edge of the pan, and deftly turn it 
out upon the hot dish. 

Salt mixed with the eggs prevents them from 
rising, and when used the omelet M'ill look 
flabby ; yet without salt it will taste insipid. 
Add a litde salt to it just before folding it and 
turning out on the dish. 

Cheese Omelet.— Beat up the eggs and add 
to them a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; add a little more cheese before folding, 
and turn out on a hot dish. Grate a little 
cheese over it before serving. 

Omelet with Herbs.— Beat up three eggs 
and add to them a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, mixed with a few chives. Pour into the 
pan, and before folding season with salt and 
pepper ; fold, and turn out on a hot dish. 

Onion Omelet.— Cut up a small Spanish 
onion ; fry it a light brown ; before folding the 
omelet add the onion, and turn out on a hot 
dish. 

Oyster Omelet.— Stew six oysters in their 
own liquor for five minutes ; remove the oysters, 



OMELET AU RTIU.M. 35 

and thicken the hquid with a walnut of butter 
rolled in flour ; season with salt and cayenne ; 
whisk this to a cream. Chop the oysters, amd 
add them to the sauce ; simmer until the sauce 
thickens. Beat up four eggs lightly, and add a 
tablespoonful of cream ; turn out into a hot 
pan, and fry a light gold color. Before folding 
the omelet entirely, place the oysters with part 
of the sauce within, and turn it over on a hot 
dish. The remainder of the sauce should be 
poured round it. 

Omelet au Rhum.— Prepare an omelet as 
has been directed, fold it, and turn out on a 
hot dish ; dust a liberal quantity of powdered 
sugar over it, and singe the sugar into neat 
stripes with a hot iron rod, heated on the coals. 
Pour a wine-glassful of warmed Jamaica rum 
around it, and when on the table set fire to it. 
With a tablespoon dash the burning rum over 
the omelet, blow out the fire, and serve. 

Spanish Omelet.— Chop up half of a sweet 
Spanish pepper ; peel and cut up a large toma- 
to ; cut two ounces of ham into dice ; mince 
three button mushrooms and half an onion with 
a clove of garlic ; season with salt, cayenne, and 
capers. Put the onion and ham in a pan, and 
fry ; add the other ingredients, and simmer 
until a thick pulp ; add this to an omelet just 



^6 SWEKT OMELET. 

before folding it and turning out on a dish. 
Pour a well-made tomato sauce round it, and 
serve. 

The ingredients may be varied to suite the 
taste. 

Sweet Omelet.— Beat up the eggs as usual, 
and, just before it is folded in the pan, add a 
heaping tablespoonful of jelly, preserves, or 
other ingredients that fancy may suggest. 



POTATOES. 

Potatoes.— Take a sound-looking potato of 
any variety ; pay but little attention to its out- 
ward appearance ; cut or break it in two, cross- 
wise, and examine the cut surface. If it appears 
v/atery to such a degree that a slight pressure 
would cause water to fall off in drops, reject it, 
as it would be of little use for the table. A good 
potato should be of a light cream-color, and 
when rubbed together a white froth should ap- 
pear round the edges and surface of the cut, 
which indicates the presence of starch. The 
more starch in the potato, the more it will froth ; 
consequendy the more froth on the potato the 
better it will be when cooked. The strength of 



nOlI.ED POTATOES. 37 

its Starchy properties mav be tested by releasini^ 
the hold of one end, and if it dings to the 
other, the potato is a good one. These are the 
general principles followed by potato- buyers, 
and they are usually to be fully relied upon. 
About one seventh part of the potato is nutri- 
tious, and this is chiefly farinaceous, and is ac- 
companied by no inconsiderable portion of saline 
matter, more especially of potassa, which renders 
it highly antiscorbutic, and a powerful corrective 
of the grossness of animal food. When form- 
ing part of a mixed diet, no substance is more 
wholesome than the potato. Even the wild 
potato found in the Yellowstone Country is 
thought one of the best of edible wild roots. 

Boiled Potatoes.— To retain the highest 
amount of nourishment, potatoes should be 
boiled with their skins on. When so treated, 
they are twice as rich in potassa salts as those 
which have first been peeled. It is a good plan 
to place them in the oven or on top of the 
range after boiling them, thereby allowing all 
surplus moisture to escape. Before sending to 
table they should be peeled, and. if convenient, 
thoroughly mashed, as they are more easily 
digested, and when they are lumpy or water}' 
they escape proper mastication, and in this way 
cause serious derangement of the system, Un- 



38 LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

der no circumstances allow the aged, dyspeptic, 
or those in delicate health to eat them except 
when mashed. The so-called potato " with a 
bone in it," a favorite dish of the Irish peasant, 
is a potato only half cooked, being raw in the 
centre ; and a more indigestible thing cannot 
well be imagmed. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes.— The same as sau- 
teed, except that a little onion is fried brown 
and the potato then added. 

Potatoes au Cochon.— Slice two hot, 
mealy potatoes ; cut the slices into squares ; 
put them in a saucepan, and add scalded cream 
enough to cover them, salt, and white pepper. 
Cut into very small pieces half an ounce of fat, 
boiled, salt pork ; add a tablespoonful to the 
potato ; simmer until thoroughly blended to- 
gether ; pour the contents of the dish into a 
small au gratin dish (or vegetable baker) ; grate 
a little Parmesan cheese over it ; add a small bit 
of butter ; place in the oven a moment to 
brown, and serve in the same dish. 

Potatoes an Gratin.— Nearly fill the^/w//;/ 
pan with hot boiled potatoes, cut into small 
pieces ; cover with milk ; strew over them grated 
cheese or part cheese and grated crumbs ; add a 
little butter, and bake brown in a quick oven. 

Potatoes Sauteed are cold boiled potatoes 



ARTICHUKKS (kRENXh). 39 

cut into small slices and slightly browned in a 
frying-pan, shaped, and turned out on a hot 
dish (as you would an omelet), and seasoned 
with parsley, salt, and pepper. 



DAINTY DISHES. 

Artichokes (French).— Trim the ends ; re- 
move the choke, and quarter each artichoke ; 
pour boiling water over them, and drain. Put 
them in a stewpan, and to each artichoke add a 
gill of white wine and one of clear soup ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a little lemon -peel ; when 
done, remove the artichoke, and boil the sauce 
down. Cream an ounce of butter ; add half a 
teaspoonful of flour, and by degrees add the 
sauce ; simmer until thick, and send to table 
with the artichokes. 

Artichokes (French), Fried.— Wash and 
cut away the leaves of two artichokes ; remove 
the inside choke ; cut the bottoms into neat 
pieces, and cover them with water containing 
one third vinegar. Drain ; season with salt 
and pepper ; dip them in beaten egg ; roll them 
in fine cracker dust, and fry in plenty of hot 
fat. 



40 CHICKEN CROQUETTES, 

Chicken Croquettes.— Cut up the white 
meat of one cold boiled chicken, and pound it 
to a paste with a large boiled sweetbread, freed 
from sinews ; add salt and pepper. Beat up 
one egg with a teaspoonful of flour and a wine- 
glassful of rich cream. i\Iix all together ; put 
it in a pan, and simmer just enough to absorb 
part of the moisture, stirring all the time ; turn 
it out on a flat dish, and place in ice-box to be- 
come cold and firm ; then roll it into small neat 
cones ; dip them in beaten eggs ; roll in finely 
powdered bread crumbs ; drop them in boiling 
fat, and fry a delicate brown. Handle them 
carefully. 

Some add a little nutmeg, but I have found 
the above recipe more satisfactory without it, 
especially among my Philadelphia patrons. 

Chicken, Devilled.— Prepare a mixture of 
mustard, pepper, and salt, moistened with a little 
oil. Put a small quantity of oil in a frying- 
pan ; add just onion enough to give it flavor, 
and toss the chicken about in this a moment. 
Remove ; rub or brush the moisture over the 
chicken, and broil. Serve with a sharp, pun- 
gent sauce, made of drawn butter, lemon juice, 
mustard, and chopped capers. 

Chicken, Fried.— Cut up half an onion, 
and fry it brown in a little butter. Divide two 



CRABS, SOFT-SHELL. 41 

ounces of butter into little balls ; roll them in 
flour ; add to the onion, and ivy the breast ot 
the chicken in this, as well as the legs and side- 
bones, to a delicate brown. Take them out, 
and add to the sauce a few cut-up mushrooms, 
a gill of claret, salt, pepper, and a piece of cut 
sugar ; simmer slowly : pour over the chicken 
and serve. 

The Southern way of frying chicken is as fol- 
lows : Slice and cut into small dice half a pound 
of salt pork ; flour the chicken, and fry in the 
pork fat ; dissolve a heaping tablespoonful of 
flour with a little cold milk ; add to it gradually 
half a pint of boiled milk that has been seasoned 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; simmer until 
thick ; arrange the chicken on a hot dish, and 
pour the sauce round it. Toast may be placed 
under the chicken, if desired. 

Crabs, Soft-shell.— These should be cooked 
as soon as possible after being caught, as their 
flavor rapidly deteriorates after being exposed to 
the air. Select crabs as lively as possible ; re- 
move the feathery substance under the pointed 
sides of the shells ; rinse them in cold water ; 
drain ; season with salt and pepper ; dredge 
them in flour, and fry in hot fat. 

Many serve them rolled in eggs and cracker 
dust ; but thus they are not as good. 



42 FILET OF SOLE, SAUCE TARTARE. 

Filet of Sole, Sauce Tartare.—Remove 
the head, fins, tail, and skin from a medium- 
sized flounder ; lay the fish flat on the table, 
and with a sharp knife make a deep cut through 
to the back-bone the whole length of the fish. 
Cut the upper side lengthwise from the bone ; 
now remove the bone from the lower part, and 
cut the fish into pieces crosswise, each piece to 
be about two inches in width. Season each 
piece ; roll it up and tie it with strong thread ; 
dredge them in flour, and fry in plenty of hot 
fat (they may be dipped in egg batter and rolled 
in bread crumb if liked) ; remove the thread ; 
arrange them neatly on a hot dish ; garnish with 
parsley, and send to table wdth satice tariare 
(which see). 

Hamburg Steak, Sauce Piquant e.— Se- 
lect a thick rump steak, and with a stiff-backed 
kitchen knife scrape away the lean meat from 
the sinews. Season the meat with salt and cay- 
enne, and shape it into a round form slightly 
flattened on top. Fry a minced onion brown in 
butter ; cook the steak in this, on both sides, 
and serve with the following sauce : put into the 
same saucepan half a pint of strong soup stock, 
half a tcaspoonful of browned flour, three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, a tablespoonful of chopped 
eschalot, a teaspoonful of chopped p)arslcy, half 



HOMINY FRITTERS. 43 

a saltspoonful of black pepper, and a little salt. 
Simmer, strain, and serve. 

Many like a Hamburg steak rare, while others 
prefer it well done ; others there are who think 
they like it rare, highly seasoned with onion and 
other pungent seasoning. 

Hominy Fritters.— Take one pint of boiled 
hominy, one gill of cream, two tablespoonfuls 
of corn-starch, two eggs, half a teaspoonful of 
baking powder, a saltspoonful of salt ; mix to a 
batter. If too stiff, add a little more cream. 
Drop the batter in large spoonfuls into hot fat, 
and fry brown. 

Kidney, Sauteed.— Cut up half an onion ; 
brown it in a pan with an ounce of butter. 
Slice a calf's kidneys ; toss about over a slow- 
fire in the pan ; add salt and pepper, a pint ol 
red or white wine, and one piece of cut sugar. 
Simmer until tender ; dissolve a teaspoonful oi 
flour in cold water ; add to the dish. Toast a 
few slices of bread : trim them neatly ; place 
them on a dish ; pour the kidneys over them, 
and serve. 

A few mushrooms cut up and strewn over th^ 
dish will be appreciated by many. 

Lamb Chops with French Peas.— 
Dainty lamb chops require but a moment's 
cooking, and, unless care be taken, will dry 



44 MINCED TURKEY WITH POACHED EGGS. 

quickly over the fire ; they should be turned 
repeatedly, and, when done, seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, and the sweetest of sweet butter. 

Arrange a mound of peas in the centre of a 
dish ; place the chops around this, and serve. 
The peas should be cooked as follows : Open a 
small can of imported peas ; drain off the 
liquid ; melt an ounce of butter in a pan, and 
when it creams, add the peas : shake the pan to 
prevent burning ; add pepper and salt. When 
the peas are heated through they require no 
longer cooking, and should be served at once. 

The great mistake made by many cooks in 
cooking canned peas is that they allow them to 
remain too long on the fire, which spoils them, 
as they are already cooked, and simply require 
heating. 

Minced Turkey with Poached Eggs.— 
A very appetizing dish is made of cold boiled or 
roast turkey. Trim off all skin and most of the 
fat, especially on the back ; pick out the little 
tid-bits in the recesses ; cut off all that will not 
look neat when sliced cold. Season with salt 
and pepper, and a tablespoonful or two of 
minced celery ; chop up the meat ; put it in a 
pan with a little butter or turkey fat, to prevent 
burning, and just a suspicion of onion ; moisten 
with a little broth made from the turkey bones. 



MUSHROOMS OX TOAST. 45 

Poach one or two eggs for each person ; arrange 
the minced meat neatly on sHces of buttered 
toast ; place the egg on top, and serve. 

The above mode of preparing a breakfast dish 
is not only economical, but is one of the most 
delightful dishes that can be produced ; almost 
any kind of boiled or roast meat, poultry, or 
game can be utilized in this way. 

Mushrooms on Toast.— Peel a quart of 
mushrooms ; cut off a litde of the root end ; 
now take half a pound of round steak, and cut 
it up fine and fry it in a pan with a little butter, 
to extract the juice, which, being done, remove 
the pieces of steak. \\'hen the gravy is very hot 
add the mushrooms ; toss them about for a mo- 
ment, and pour the contents of the pan on but- 
tered toast : season with salt and cayenne. 
Some add a little sherry to the dish before re- 
moving from the range. 

Mutton Chops with Fried. Tomatoes 
and Sauce.— Select four nice rib chops ; have 
them trimmed neatly by the dealer ; take hold 
of the end of the rib, and dip the chops a mo- 
ment in hot fat, in which you are to fry them ; 
now roll them in fine cracker crumbs, and shake 
off the surplus ; dip them in egg, again in the 
crumbs, and drop them into boiling fat. Re- 
move when brown. 



46 FRTKT) TOMATOES. 

Fried Tomatoes.— Select three smooth, 
medium-sized, well-filled tomatoes ; cut into 
slices half an inch thick ; dredge them with 
flour or roll in egg and crumbs, and fry (or. 
rather, sautee) in a small quantity of hot fat, 
turning and cooking both sides evenly. Have 
prepared the following sauce : Add to a pint of 
milk a tablespoonful of flour, one beaten egg, 
salt, pepper, and a very little mace. Cream an 
ounce of butter ; whisk into it the milk, and let 
it simmer until it thickens ; pour the sauce on 
a hot side dish ; arrange the tomatoes in the 
centre, and add the chops opposite each other, 
and serve. 

Plain broiled or papered chops may be served 
in this way. 

Oysters, Broiled.— Rub the bars of a wire 
broiler with a little sweet butter ; dry twelve 
large, plump oysters in a napkin, and place 
them on the broiler ; brush a little butter over 
them, and broil over a fire free from flame and 
smoke. When done on both sides, arrange 
them neatly on toast ; pour a little well-seasoned 
melted butter over them, and serve. 

Do not bread-crumb oysters intended for 
broiling. 

Pork and Beans.— To call this homely 
Yankee dish a " dainty" may surprise many ; 



PORK AND BEAX5. 47 

but, when propeilv preparetl, it may well be 
called so. 

Wash a quart of small white beans in cold 
water ; pick them over v/hile in the water ; re- 
ject all imperfect beans ; drain ; cover with fresh 
cold water, and let them soak over night. Next 
morning change the water twice ; then put them 
in a large iron pot ; add a liberal quantity of 
cold w'ater, and simmer them slowly for four 
hours. Pour them into a colander carefully to 
drain. Heat an old-fashioned beanpot with hot 
water, and wipe it dry ; place a small piece of 
pork in the pot, and add the beans to within two 
inches of the top ; now place a small piece of 
pork (properly scored on its rind) on the beans. 
Dissolve a tablespoonful of black molasses in a 
pint of warm water ; add half a teaspoonful ot 
salt and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, 
and pour this over the beans ; place the pot in 
a moderate oven, and bake for three hours, at 
the end of which time take them out, and 
add a little more warm water, to prevent 
them from becoming too dry. Bake for three 
hours longer, and ser\'e with hot Boston brown 
bread. 

The old-fashioned manner of preparing this 
dish was to place all the pork on top. the result 
being that the first few spoonfuls of beans con- 



48 REED BIRDS. 

tained all the pork fat, while the remainder had 
not been seasoned by it. 

The above recipe distributes the pork fat 
evenly through the beans, as it is lighter than 
water, and naturally rises ; and for this reason 
only half the usual quantity of pork is required 
to produce the desired result. 

Reed Birds.— The average French cook 
cannot understand why these " lumps of sweet- 
ness" do not require long cooking and elaborate 
sauces to make them palatable, and these cooks 
invariably spoil them. Pluck and drasv the 
birds, leaving the heads on. Put into a fr\ing- 
pan an ounce of sweet butter ; when hot, add 
six birds ; toss them about to cook evenly ; add 
a little salt and pepper ; let them remain over 
the fire for about three minutes, and serve on a 
hot dish. 

To cook them in large quantities, as they are 
prepared by the gunners at their club-houses 
along the Delaware, proceed as follows : Clean 
them properly ; arrange them in a baking-tin ; 
add a liberal quantity of butter, salt, and pep- 
per ; put the pan in the oven. At the end of 
five minutes turn them with a long-handled 
spoon, let them cook five minutes longer, and 
serve. 

An excellent wav to serve them at late break- 



SALT CODFISH, BROILED. 49 

fast-parties is as follows : Pluck and draw the 
birds, and remove their heads. Take a few 
lai-ge loni,^ potatoes : cut them in two cross- 
wise ; scrape out part of the inside ; place a 
bird in each half of potato ; press the halves to- 
gether, tie them with twine, and bake until the 
potatoes are done. Remove the common twine 
and tie them up again with narrow tape or rib- 
bon. Send to table on a napkin. 

Salt Codfish, Broiled.— Cut from a medi- 
um-sized salt codfish three pieces about two 
inches square ; split each piece in two, and soak 
in water over night ; change the water two or 
three times. Next morning rinse the pieces in 
fresh cold water, and drain and dry in a napkin ; 
brush a little butter over each, and broil. 
When done, pour over them melted butter sea- 
soned with pepper and lemon juice. 

Sardines, Broiled.— Open a can of sar- 
dines, and remove the fish without breaking 
them ; scrape off the skin and split them, if 
large ; pi.it them between a double wire broiler, 
and broil both sides nicely. Squeeze a litde 
lemon and orange juice over them before serv- 
ing. 

Sauce Tartare.— Chop together one small 
pickle, a dozen capers, and a few sprigs of pars- 
ley and a very small piece of onion ; to these 



50 SAUSAGES. 

add half a pint of Mayonnaise and a teaspoonful 
of French mustard. 

Sausages.— A disagreeable feature of sau- 
sages, when cooked in the ordinary manner, is 
that the spattering fat covers the range, and the 
ascending smoke pervades the whole house. 
This may be avoided by putting them in a bak- 
ing-pan and cooking them in the oven. Ten 
minutes is sufficient to cook a pound of country 
sausages, provided the oven be quite hot. They 
are excellent when split in two and broiled ; 
serve hot or cold apple sauce with them. Apple 
fritters also are acceptable with sausages. 

Smelts, Broiled.— Clean thoroughly six 
medium-sized smelts ; split them down the 
back ; rub a little oil over them ; place them 
on a double broiler, and broil. When done, 
serve with sauce iariare (which see). 

Smelts, Fried. — Thoroughly clean the 
smelts, leaving the heads on ; dip them in 
beaten ^g's^ ; roll them in fine cracker dust, and 
fry in very hot fat ; garnish with parsley and 
lemons, quartered, and send to table with sauce 
iartare (which see). 

Squabs are very nice broiled, but aie at 
their best served as follows ; — Select a pair of 
plump birds ; clean them, cut off the legs, and 
remove the heads without breaking or tearing 



STEAK, TENDERLOIN ; SAUCE BEARNAISE. 5 1 

the neck skin ; insert the forefinger in it. and 
separate the skin over the breast from the flesh ; 
fill this with a nicely-seasoned bread stuffing, and 
fasten the loose end of the neck to the back. 
Place a thin wide slice of bacon over the breast, 
and fasten the ends with wooden toothpicks ; 
put them in a pan ; dredge with a little flour, 
and bake to a delicate brown ; serve with fresh 
green peas. 

Spring chicken may be treated in the same way. 

Steak, Tenderloin ; Sauce Bearnaise.— 
Cut a thick steak off the large end of a beef ten- 
derloin ; flatten it out a little ; rub olive-oil or 
butter over it, and broil over a charcoal fire ; 
place it on a hot dish, add a litde pepper and 
salt, and serve with sauce Bearnaise. 

Sauce Bearnaise.— Reduce a gallon of 
strong, clear soup to a quart by constant boiling. 
Beat up the yolks of four eggs ; pour them into 
a buttered saucepan, and add gradually — whisk- 
ing all the time — the reduced soup, a table- 
spoonful of strong garlic vinegar (or, if preferred, 
plain vinegar, and the expressed juice of garlic or 
shallots), pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. 
Stir with a wooden spoon. 

Care must be exercised not to add the soup 
while hot to the eggs, or it will curdle, and yet 
do not add it cold. 



52 STEAK, SIRLOIN ; SAUCE BORDELAISE. 

Steak, Sirloin; Sauce Bordelaise.- -Se- 
lect a steak cut from the best part of the sirloin ; 
trim it neatly ; rub a little oil over it, and broil 
over a charcoal fire ; serve with the following 
sauce : 

Sauce Bordelaise is easiest made as fol- 
lows : Chop up one medium onion, or, better 
still, two shallots ; fry them in butter until 
brown ; add a pint of strong clear soup or beef 
gravy, half a pint of claret or white wine, salt, 
pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; 
simmer, and if not quite thick enough add a 
little browned flour. 

Tomato Sauce.— Open a can of Baldwin 
tomatoes, which contain but little liquid ; sim- 
mer them gently for three quarters of an hour ; 
season with salt, cayenne, a clove of garlic, 
bruised, and very little mace. Press them 
through a fine sieve ; put the pulp in a clean, 
hot stewpan, with a little butter ; stir to prevent 
burning, and, when quite thick, serve. 

A most excellent tomato sauce is made of a 
brilliant red ketchup, known to dealers under 
the name of "Connoisseur Ketchup." Take 
half a pint of it ; heat it gently ; add a gill of 
rich soup-stock and a teaspoonful of flour dis- 
solved in a litde cold water ; simmer until it 
thickens, and serve. 



TRIPE WITH OYSTERS. 53 

Ordinary ketchups do not have the proper 
color, and are likely to sour when heated. 

Tripe with Oysters.— Tripe, when prop- 
erly prepared by a simple process, is very nutri- 
tious and easily digested. 

Cut up half a pound o[ well-washed tripe ; 
simmer for three quarters of an hour in water 
slightly salted ; take out the tripe ; add to the 
broth a little butter rolled in flour, salt, and pep- 
per ; add a little more flour if not thick enough. 
Return the tripe and a dozen oysters ; simmer 
for a few minutes longer, and serve. 

Tripe Lyonnaise— Cut up half a pound of 
cold boiled tripe into neat squares. Put two 
ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of chopped 
onion in a pan, and fry to a delicate brown ; 
add the tripe, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
one of strong vinegar, salt, and cayenne ; stir 
the pan to prevent burning. When done, cover 
the bottom of a hot dish w^ith tomato sauce, add 
the contents of the pan to it, and serve. 

Veal Cutlet, Sauce Robert.— Select two 
medium-sized veal steaks, or cut one large one 
in two ; dip in beaten egg ; roll in bread 
crumbs, and fry very well done in the hottest of 
hot fat ; serve with sauce Robert, made as fol- 
lows ; — Fry a small onion brown ; add to it a gill 
each of clear soup and white wine ; simmer until 



54 VEAL CUTLET, SAUCE ROBERT. 

brown ; strain ; return to the pan, and add a 
teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoon- 
iul of browned flour, and a tablespoonful of 
French mustard. 

Cutlets or veal chops, broiled, may also be 
served with this sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND DAINTY 
DESSERTS 



CONTENTS, 



INTRODUCTORY 



MISCELLANEOUS DAINTY 
SERTS, . 

After-Dinner Croutons, 

Almond Cake, 

Angel Cake, 

Apricot Tarts, 

Biscuit Glace, 

Blanc Mange, 

Brioche (French Paste) 

Cocoanut Cake, 

Deviled Almonds, 

Deviled Chestnuts, . 

Dominoes, . 

Eclairs, 

Fresh Pear Tart, 

Gateau St. Honore, 

Lemon Water Ice, 

Macaroons, 

Maids of Honor, . 

Orange Water Ice, 

Rice Souffle, 



DES- 



9 
9 

lO 
lO 
lO 

II 
1 1 

12 
13 
13 
13 
13 
14 
15 
15 
16 
16 
17 



CONTENTS. 



Rhubarb Tarts, . . • ^1 

Sponge Cake, . . . . iS 

Sponge Drops, . . . iS 

Velvet Cream, . . .19 

Vanilla Ice Cream, . . 19 

VARIOUS FRUIT DESSERTS. 

Apple Charlotte, . . .19 

Apricots with Rice, . . 20 

Banana Charlotte, . . .20 

Banana Fritters, . . .20 

Blackberry Short-Cake, . .21 

Fresh Pineapples in Jelly, . 21 

•Frozen Bananas, . . .21 

Frozen Peaches, . . ,22 

Orange-Cocoanut Salad, . . 22 

Orange Salad, . » .22 

Orange Sponge, . . .23 

Peaches a la Conde, . . 23 

Peaches a la Suedoise, . . 23 

Peach Fritters, . . .24 

Peach Meringue, . . .24 

Peach Short-Cake, . . 25 

Pineapple Fritters, . . .25 

Pineapple Salad, . . 25 

Plum Salad, . . • .26 

Raspberry Short-cake, . . 26 

Salad of Mixed Fruits, . . 27 



CONTENTS. 







PAGE 

Sliced Pears, . . . .37 

Strawberry Charlotte, . . 27 

Strawberry Short-Cake, . . 2S 

Velvet Cream, with Strawberries, 29 

CUSTARDS xVND OMELETS AS 
DESSERTS. 

Cold Custard, . . .29 

Cold Rice Custard, . . .29 

Meringue Custard Tartlets, . 30 

Omelet Souffle, . . .31 

Omelet with Jelly, . . 31 

Rum Omelet, . . . .33 

Tapioca Custard, . . 34 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple-Manioca Pudding, . . 34 

Batter Pudding, . - ' 35 

Boiled Pudding, . . .35 
Boiled Rice Dumplings, Custard 

Sauce, .... 35 

Bread-and-Butter Pudding, . 36 

Bread-and-Fruit Pudding, . 37 

Bread Pudding, . . .37 

Carrot Pudding, . . -37 

Chocolate Pudding, . . 38 

Cold Apple Pudding, . 38 

Cold Cabinet Pudding, . . 39 

Cold Marquise Pudding, . 40 



CONTENTS. 



Cold Plum Pudding, 

Cold Rice Pudding, 

Cold Scotch Pudding, 

Green Apple Pudding, 

Indian Pudding, 

Lemon Pudding, 

Manioc A Pudding, 

Meringue Pudding, 

Minute Pudding, 

Plum Pudding, 

Pineapple Cabinet Pudding, 

Rice a l'Imperatrice, 

Rice Pudding, 

Spanish Apple Pudding, . 

Spanish Fruit Pudding, 

Spanish Pineapple Pudding, 

Sponge Pudding, 

Steamed Peach Pudding, 

Tapioca Pudding, with Peaches 

Vanilla Sauce, 

PIES. 
Remarks on Pies, 
Pie Crust, 
Puff Paste, 
Home-Made Apple Pie, 
Mince Pie, 



40 
41 
41 
42 
42 
42 

43 
43 
44 
44 
45 
45 
46 
46 

47 
47 
47 
4S 
48 
4S 

49 
49 
50 
51 
52 



INTRODUCTORY. 

Quite a revolution has been created in the 
dessert of the American dinner-table. The 
time was when the array of sweets, creams, and 
ices would occupy half the menu of a private 
dinner party, and the sight of these to guests 
already satisfied with good things was anything 
but agreeable. Happily these displays are seen 
no more in good society, for none but Mrs. 
Moneybags from the backwoods would think of 
presenting more than one or two choice sweets 
to her guests. 

For the daily dinner nothing can be more ac- 
ceptable than sweets combined with fruits, small 
light puddings, and ethereal trifles, such as 
souffles, whipped creams, etc. While many of 
these recipes are intended to supply this want, 
a few there are which will be found somewhat 
elaborate, and are intended for special occasions. 

Certain recipes given here might appear with 
equal propriety under either of several of the 
various general divisions of this book, but as an 
alphabetical index of each division is given, no 
confusion should occur. 



{ 



i 



MISCELLANEOUS DAINTY DESSERTS. 

After-dinner Croutons.— The hard water 
crackers being expensive in comparison with 
other crackers, I have adopted the crispy crou- 
tons as a substitute, and find them very accept- 
able. Cut sandv/ich-bread into slices one- quar- 
ter of an inch thick ; cut each sHce into four 
small triangles ; dry them in the oven slowly 
until they assume a delicate brownish tint, then 
serve, either hot or cold. A nice way to serve 
them is to spread a paste of part butter and part 
rich, creamy cheese, to which may be added a 
very little minced parsley. 

Almond Cake.— Blanch and pound in a 
mortar eight ounces of sweet and one ounce of 
bitter almonds ; add a few drops of rose-water, 
or white of ^%% every few minutes, to prevent 
oiling ; add six tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar and 
eight beaten eggs ; sift in six tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and work it thoroughly with the mixture. 
Gradually add a quarter of a pound of creamed 
butter ; beat the mixture constandy while pre- 
paring the cake, or it will be heavy. Put a 



lO ANGEL CAKE. 

buttered paper inside of a buttered tin, pour in 
the mixture, and bake in a quick oven ; cover 
the cake with paper if the oven is too hot. 

Angel Cake.— This popular cake was invented 
by a St. Louis baker, who kept the formula a 
secret a long time. A discharged employee 
finally made it known. To four ounces of sifted 
flour add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; 
rub these through the sieve four or five times. 
Beat the whites of a dozen eggs until very siifi ; 
add to them gradually three-quarters of a pound 
of granulated sugar, and beat thoroughly while 
so doing ; flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract ; add the flour to the egg foam quickly 
and lighdy. Line the funnel cake- pan with un- 
greased paper, pour in the mixture and bake 
fifty minutes. When done, loosen the edges 
and remove from the pan at once. Cut into 
slices and served with a custard sauce, it forms 
an agreeable puddnig. 

Apricot Tarts.— Prepare the tart shells as in 
recipe for Rhubarb Tarts (which see). Peel 
and remove the stones from a quart of ripe apri- 
cots, put them in the shells, dredge them with 
sugar, and serve. When the fruit is hard or 
unripe, boil it in a syrup made of one })int of 
water and one pound of sugar. 

Biscuit Glace.— Fancy paper cases, filled 



BLANX MANGE. 1 I 

with a variety of ice-creams, water-ices, velvet 
creams, etc., are so called. Small families are 
recommended to purchase them already pre- 
pared from dealers in sweets and ices, but they 
are easily prepared. Half fill the cases with ice- 
cream or water-ice, and add a layer of Charlotte 
russe or velvet cream ; then put them in a 
covered receptacle, surrounded with ice and salt, 
until wanted. A top layer of beaten white of 
egg is sometimes added just before serving, and 
a shovelful of hot coals held over them a moment 
will color the egg nicely. 

Blanc Mange.— Blanch two bitter almonds 
with two ounces of sweet almonds, pound them 
to a paste, and by degrees add a pint of cold 
water. Let stand until settled. Strain off the 
almond milk. Put into a pint of milk live 
ounces of loaf sugar, three inches of vanilla bean, 
and boil in an enameled saucepan : stir until the 
sugar is dissolved ; then add an ounce of well- 
soaked isinglass ; strain into a basin, add the 
milk of almond and a gill of cream. Remove 
the vanilla. When cold pour the mixture into 
individual moulds, and place in the ice-box until 
wanted. 

Brioche (French. Paste). — Mix together 
eight ounces of sifted flour and half a pint of 
brewers' yeast, with lukewarm milk enough to 



12 COCOANUT CAKE. 

make a thick batter. Cover, set near the range 
and allow it to rise until twice its original size. 

Sift together one ounce of salt and a pound 
and a. half of flour ; add an ounce of powdered 
sugar ; cut up a pound of unsalted butter into 
pieces, and work it into the flour ; beat and add 
eight eggs ; whip three pints of cream to a light 
foam, and work it evenly into the mixture. 
Now add the first mixture (if risen) and knead 
them well together. Cut and knead again ; 
allow it to rise ; knead again ; put it into well 
greased molds and bake in a quick oven. 

The French usually make it into balls hol- 
lowed at the top by pressing the thumb into 
them ; beaten egg is then brushed over them 
and much smaller dough-balls are placed in the 
hollow part of each. Egg is again brushed over 
them and the whole is then baked. A richer 
paste can be made by using more eggs and 
butter. 

Cocoanut Cake.— Three-fourths of a pint of 
powdered sugar, one ounce of butter, half a pint 
of grated cocoanut, one pint of flour, one table- 
spoonful of baking powder, and milk enough to 
make a stiff batter. Mix, and bake in buttered 
pans ; sprinkle dry cocoanut on top. 

Deviled Almonds.— Blanch two ounces of 
sweet almonds in hot water, to more easilv re- 



DEVILED CHESTNUTS. 13 

move their skins, and toss them about a few- 
moments in hot butter ; sprinkle over them a 
pinch of cayenne and sah. 

Deviled Chestnuts.— Peel the raw chestnuts 
and scald them to remove the inner skin ; put 
them in a frying-pan with a little butter and toss 
them about a few moments ; add a sprinkle of 
salt and a suspicion of cayenne. Serve them 
after the cheese. 

Dominoes.— Bake two thin sheets of sponge 
cake ; cover one of them with chocolate paste, 
and the other with icing ; put little dots of 
chocolate over the latter to represent the domi- 
noes ; place the cake on top of the chocolate 
and cut the cake through to pieces of the size of 
dominoes. 

Eclairs.— Put in a saucepan half a pound of 
butter ; w^hisk into it a quart of boiled milk and 
add gradually one pound of sifted flour, and a 
saltspoonful of salt. Stir the milk briskly with 
a wooden spoon, while the flour is being added ; 
allow the paste to stand on the range a few 
minutes to evaporate some of its moisture, then 
add one egg at a time, beating thoroughly, until 
the paste shows signs of becoming sticky instead 
of being smooth. 

No definite number of eggs can be prescribed to 
attain this result, as there is so much difference 



14 FRESH PEAR TART. 

in flour, but from five to seven will be sufficient 
to produce the desired consistency. Put the 
paste in a funnel-shaped bag, having a tin tube 
in the small end, and squeeze it out on a but- 
tered pan, making the eclair three or four inches 
long. Then bake these forms of light paste for 
about twenty minutes. 

Prepare a cream as follows : Put two quarts 
of milk on the range and add to it half a pound 
of powdered sugar. Put together a quarter of a 
pound of fliour and four eggs and one vanilla 
bean ; beat thoroughly ; when the milk boils add 
it to the flour and eggs and whisk lively. Set 
the mixture on the range ; let it come to a boil, 
and pour it into a bowl to become cold. When 
cold, stir into this cream a pint of whipped cream. 

Cut the eclairs on the side and fill them with 
the cream. They may be ser\'ed plain or with 
a covering of chocolate, icing, or coffee fondant. 

Presh Pear Tart.— Prepare the tart shell as in 
recipe for Rhubarb Tarts (which see). Peel, 
quarter, and core six pears. Put a pint of boil- 
ing water in a double saucepan, stir into it 
gradually half a pound of crushed sugar ; let it 
boil up ; skim until clear ; add the pears, let 
them simmer half an hour. Pour into a crock 
or bowl. When wanted, add three pieces of 
fruit to each tart shell and use the remaining 



GATEAU ST. HONORE. 1 5 

syrup as a pudding sauce by adding a table- 
spoonful of brandy or other flavoring. 

Gateau St. Honore.— Prepare a pie crust as 
for custard pie, put it on a greased pie plate, and 
bake to a delicate brown. When done and cool, 
spread a layer of quince marmalade over it. 
Prepare a paste as for cream cakes, put it in a 
pastry bag and press part of it round the edge of 
a round cake tin, press out the remainder in 
balls the size of hickory nuts and bake. Lay the 
border on the edge of the pie crust and press it 
into the marmalade ; garnish the edge with the 
balls and sections of oranges, candied cherries, 
grapes, etc. ; fill the centre with Bavarian cream. 

Lemon Water Ice.— To a heaping table- 
spoonful of gelatine dissolved in two gills of cold 
water, add a quart of boiling water, twelve 
ounces of sugar, a pint of boiling water, and the 
strained juice of eight lemons ; mix thoroughly, 
strain and freeze. P>eezers are indispensable in 
well-regulated kitchens. They need not be ex- 
pensive or elaborate, and will pay for themselves 
in a very short time, especially in hot weather, 
when frozen puddings, custards and ices are in 
constant demand. A good butter-tub will 
answer for ordinary use if one has good cans 
with tight covers. Pack the fine ice with alter- 
nate layers of rock salt around the can, pour in 



1 6 MACAROONS. 

the prepared liquid and work it well with a 
wooden spade or spoon while freezing, which 
will prevent it from granulating. Do not draw 
off the water from around the can, until the 
cream or ice is finished, then draw off the sur- 
plus water, repack with ice and salt, and the 
frozen delicacy will be ready to serve in two 
hours. The proportion of salt to ice is one to 
five. When rock salt is scarce the water in the 
freezer may be poured in shallow tins and placed 
in a moderate oven with the door open, where 
the water will evaporate, leaving the salt in the 
bottom of the tin. 

Macaroons.— Blanch (a term used in cookery, 
meaning to scald, so as to more easily remove 
the husks or skins of fruits, etc.) and pound 
three ounces of sweet almonds with half a pound 
of fine powdered sugar ; beat up to a very light 
froth the whites of four eggs with an ounce of 
rice flour, a tablespoonful of dry sherry ; whisk 
it into the almond paste ; drop the mixture on 
paper in wafers about two inches apart, and bake 
in a moderate oven. Neatly arrayed round 
whipped cream they are used quite frequently. 

Maids of Honor.— Half -pint each of sweet 
and sour milk, two ounces of powdered rock 
candy, one tablespoonful of melted butter, yolks 
of four eggs beaten up, and the juice and grated 



ORANGE WATER ICE. 1 7 

rind of one lemon. Put the milk in a vessel, 
which set in another, half full of water ; heat 
them to set the curd, then strain off the milk, 
rub the curd through a strainer ; add the butter 
to it and the other ingredients. Line little pans 
with rich paste ; fill with the mixture and bake 
until firm in the center. 

Orange Water Ice.— Add a tablespoonful of 
gelatine to one gill of cold water ; let it stand 
twenty minutes and add half a pint of boiling 
water, stir until dissolved and add four ounces of 
powdered sugar, the strained juice of six oranges, 
and cold water enough to make a full quart in 
all. Stir until the sugar is dissolved ; pour into 
the freezing can and freeze (see lemon water ice). 

Rice Souffle.— Wash a pint of rice, put it in 
a saucepan and add a pint of boiled milk and a 
small piece of stick cinnamon ; boil until the 
milk is absorbed. Remove the cinnamon. 
When cold add the beaten yolks of four eggs 
and an ounce of sugar beaten together, to the 
rice. Have ready a quantity of stiff foam made 
from the beaten whites of six eggs. Whisk it 
into the rice and beat the mixture thoroughly ; 
pour it in a buttered dish, bake to a light golden 
color, and serve the moment it leaves the oven. 

Rhubarb Tarts.— One pound of sifted flour, 
a quarter of a pound of lard, a quarter of a 



lO SPONGE CAKE. 

pound of butter ; work the flour and lard 
together ; add water enough to make a dough, 
roll it out, spread a portion of the butter over it, 
fold and roll again : add more butter, and so 
on until all the butter is used. When wanted, 
roll it half an inch thick, cut it into rounds with 
a fluted cutter, brush a little egg over the top 
edge and bake. When done fill them with 
rhubarb, stewed and sweetened. 

Sponge Cake.— Separate the whites and yolks 
of ten eggs ; beat the yolks thoroughly with one 
pound of sifted, powdered sugar ; add half a 
pound of sifted flour, a saltspoonful of salt and 
the grated rind of one orange and one lemon. 
Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and beat it into 
the mixture thoroughly. Half fill your buttered 
pans with the mixture, and bake forty-five min- 
utes. Cover the cake with paper during the first 
half baking. 

Sponge Drops.— Separate the whites and 
yolks of six eggs and beat them thoroughly. 
Add to the yolks four ounces each of sifted flour 
and sugar. Beat in the whisked whites and two 
gills of rose-water; beat the mixture five minutes. 
Butter the baking tin, and drop the mixture by 
spoonfuls on it ; dust a little sugar over them ; 
let them stand a few minutes to absorb the sugar, 
and bake tv/enty minutes. 



VELVET CREAM. I9 

Velvet Cream.— Dissolve half an ounce of 
gelatine in a gill of water ; add to it half a pint 
of light sherry, grated lemon peel and the juice 
of one lemon and five ounces of sugar. Stir 
over the fire until the sugar is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Then strain and cool. Before it sets 
beat into it a pint of cream ; pour into molds 
and keep on ice until wanted. 

Vanilla Ice Cream.— Take four quarts of 
rich cream, two vanilla beans, split in two and 
cut small, two pounds of powdered sugar, and 
four fresh eggs. Beat the eggs thoroughly in a 
porcelain-lined dish ; add the sugar and stir well 
together ; add the cream and vanilla, simmer 
until near boiling point, remove and strain 
through a hair sieve. When cool pour into a 
freezer, and freeze in the usual manner. 



VARIOUS FRUIT DESSERTS. 

Apple Charlotte.— A home-made apple char- 
lotte is prepared as follows : Line the inside 
of a pudding- dish with thin slices of home-made 
bread, moderately well buttered on both sides. 
Peel, core and slice a quantity of sour apples ; 
put in a thin layer of apple in the dish ; spice 
moderately, and add a liberal quantity of sugar ; 
then add a layer of any kind of home-made pre- 



20 APRICOTS WITH RICE. 

serves, and so on until the dish is really full ; 
put slices of buttered bread on top, and bake 
until quite brown and crisp on top. 

Apricots with Rice.— Wash a pint of rice 
thoroughly, scald it with hot water, drain and 
cool ; add to the rice a quart of rich milk, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar and a saltspoonful 
of salt ; simmer gently an hour. When done, 
beat it with a wooden spoon. Wet an oval 
mould with water, press the rice in it and keep 
on ice until wanted. Cut a dozen apricots in 
halves, remove the stones and boil the apricots 
in a syrup made of a pound of sugar, a pint of 
water, and the juice of two lemons. Turn the 
rice on a glass dish, arrange the apricots around 
it, pour the syrup over all (when cold) and 
serve. 

Banana Charlotte. -Line the sides of a quart 
mould with slices of sponge cake or brioche ; 
cover the bottom of the mould with thin slices of 
Aspinwall bananas ; fill the mould with stiff-whip- 
ped or Bavarian cream ; set it aside in the ice- 
box until wanted ; then remove carefully from 
the mould and serve. 

Banana Fritters.— Remove the skin from 
four large yellow bananas. Cut the fruit in two 
crosswise, then lengthwise, in not too thin slices ; 
dip them in a batter, fry in hot fat, and serve 



BLACKBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 2 1 

with a sweet sauce, flavored with kirsch or other 
liqueur. Make the batter as follows : Beat 
the yolks of three eggs and add a gill of milk, a 
saltspoonfull of salt, four ounces of sifted flour, 
and mix thoroughly. 

Blackberry Short-cake.— Prepare the short- 
cake as in the recipe for strawberry short cake 
(which see). Examine the berries carefully ; 
reject all bruised or decayed ones ; arrange 
them on the lower piece of short-cake on their 
sides, but place them upright on the upper 
layer and dredge liberally with sugar. 

Fresh Pineapples in Jelly.— Procure a pint 
of calfs-foot or wine jelly from the grocer. Sur- 
round a small fancy mould wdth ice, keeping 
the opening end upward ; add enough jelly 
to cover the bottom of the mould ; when firm 
add a layer of diamond-shaped pieces of pine- 
apple, then add more jelly and pineapple until 
the mould is full and all the fruit is used. Keep 
it as cold as possible until wanted, then dip the 
mould quickly in hot water and turn out the 
form on an ice-cold dish. 

Frozen Bananas.— Cut six large, ripe, red 
bananas crosswise, in very thin slices ; add half 
a pound of powdered sugar to them, let them 
stand an hour, then add a quart of water and the 
grated peel of a lemon. When the sugar is dis' 



2 2 FROZEN PEACHES. 

solved, put the fruit in the freezer and freeze as 
you would ice-cream. Pineapples, oranges and 
berries may be served in the same manner. A 
pint of cream, whipped stiff, maybe added if hked. 

Frozen Peaches.— Peel, stone, and quarter 
the peaches, put them in a freezing-can or crock 
in alternate layers, with an equal quantity of 
peach Sherbet and keep surrounded with ice 
until wanted. 

Orange-Cocoanut Salad.— Fruits served as a 
salad are most enjoyable ; served with a crispy 
crouton or quantity of little cakes they are \^Ty 
acceptable (see After- Dinner Croutojis). Peel 
and slice four Florida oranges. Cover the bot- 
tom of a compotier with slices of oranges, and 
strew over them a layer of fresh-grated cocoanut : 
add layers of sliced orange and cocoanut until 
the dish is full. Add powdered sugar, and over 
all pour a pint of champagne. 

Orange Salad.— In India, orange salad is 
served with a plain dressing of oil, vinegar, pep- 
per and salt ; but for Americans, the most ap- 
propriate dressing is of liqueurs. Peel and slice 
three cold oranges, remove the seeds, arrange 
the slices neatly in a compotier, dust powdered 
sugar over them and add two tablespoonfuls each 
of maraschino, chartreuse, and brandy ; let the 
dish stand an hour before serving. 



ORANGE SPONGE. 23 

Orange Sponge. —Oranges are not only excel- 
lent at breakfast (which is the best time to eat 
them), but should be oftener served at dessert — 
as puddings, jellies, short-cake, etc. — than they 
are. A very nice dish is made as follows : 
squeeze out the juice and pulp of three oranges 
into a bowl, add the juice of half a lemon, three 
ounces of sugar, one and a half pints of cold 
water ; let it come to a boil, then strain. Dis- 
solve two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch in a little 
cold water, rub it smooth and add to it the 
strained juices ; let it boil fifteen minutes to 
cook the corn-starch. Then set it aside, and 
when cold set it in the ice-box to become quite 
cold. Beat up the whites of three eggs to a 
foam, whip it into the corn- starch, and it is 
ready for use. It may be served in tart shells 
or fancy cases, or in meringue boats. 

Peaches a la Conde.— Peel and cut the 
peaches in two, and stew them in clarified sugar 
syrup. Fill an oval mould with hot boiled rice ; 
turn the form out on a dish, arrange the peaches 
around it, and decorate with preserved cherries, 
or other small fruits from the confectioner's. Mix 
half a pint of the syrup with a gill each of sherry 
and marmalade, pour it over the dish, and serve 
hot. 

Peaches a la Suedoise.— Cut a dozen fine 



24 PEACH FRITTERS. 

peaches in halves, remove the stones and boil 
the peaches in white sugar syrup ; drain on a 
sieve and remove the skins. Cut a sandwich 
loaf of bread in two, lengthwise, trim off all 
crust from one-half of it and fry this in hot but- 
ter ; drain and cool ; put it on a flat dish, arrange 
the peaches on top of it, reduce the syrup a little 
and pour it over the peaches. Strew over the 
dish a quantity of deviled almonds, and serve. 

Peach Fritters.— Peel the peaches, split each 
in two and take out the stones ; dust a little 
powdered sugar over them ; dip each piece in 
the batter, and fry in hot fat. Put an ounce 
of butter in a saucepan, and whisk it to a cream; 
add four ounces of sugar gradually. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs ; add to them a dash of nut- 
meg and a gill each of cold water and rum ; stir 
this into the lukewarm batter, and allow it to 
heat gradually. Stir constantly until of a smooth, 
creamy consistency, and serve. The batter is 
made as follows : Beat the yolks of three eggs ; 
add to them a gill of milk, a saltspoonful of 
salt, four ounces of flour ; mix. If old flour is 
used, a little more milk may be found necessary. 

Peach Meringue.— Peel six ripe peaches, 
split or cut them in halves and remove the stones. 
Beat half a pint of rich cream in a bowl sur- 
rounded with ice, until it is three times its original 



PEACH SHORT-CAKE. 25 

quantity. Place the fioth on a sieve to drain, 
and keep it on ice until wanted. Dredge the 
peaches with sugar. Beat the whites of four eggs 
until very stiff, and add four ounces of powdered 
sugar gradually. Cover an oven board with white 
paper and drop the beaten eggs on it by table- 
spoonfuls, place them over the range for half an 
hour, then brown slightly in a slow oven, remove 
the soft part when they are cold and place half 
of a peach in the cavity. Place mounds of the 
whipped cream on top, and serve. The mer- 
ingues may be filled ^vith the cream and half of 
a peach placed in the center. 

Peach Short-cake.— Prepare the shortcake 
as in the recipe for Strawberry Short-cake. Peel 
and slice the peaches, arrange the slices with 
sugar as fast as peeled, and arrange in the usual 
manner in layers on top of the short-cake. The 
top layer should be covered with a whipped cream 
to make it more palatable. 

Pineapple Fritters.— Peel and dig out the 
edges of the fruit, and then slice and cut out the 
hard core of each slice. Dip the slices in a bat- 
ter, and fry in hot fat. Add to half a pint of 
hot sugar syrup a tablespoonful of Kirschwas- 
ser, and serve with the fritters. 

Pineapple Salad.— Pare and dig out the eyes 
of a ripe pineapple ; take hold of the crown of 



20 PLUM SALAD. 

the pine with the left hand, take a fork in the 
right hand, and with it tear the pine into shreds 
until the core is reached, which throw away. 
Arrange the shredded fruit lightly in a compotier, 
add a liberal quantity of powdered sugar, a wine- 
glassful of curagoa, half a wine-glassful of brandy. 
Alternate layers of shredded pineapple and fresh 
cocoanut, served with a sauce made of orange- 
juice seasoned with sugar and liqueur, is excel- 
lent. 

Plum Salad. — Large plums are excellent 
served as a salad. Split half a dozen plums 
in two, remove the stones. Put the halves in 
a compotier, skin side down, dust sugar over 
them and add a gill of sherry, a tablespoonful 
each of green chartreuse and of maraschino ; 
let them stand fifteen minutes, toss lightly, and 
serve. Claret may be used instead of sherry, and 
brandy instead of chartreuse. The object in 
using liquors with fruits is to prevent ill effects 
from overeating them. 

Easpberry Short-cake.— Prepare the short- 
cake as in recipe for Strawberry Short-cake 
(which see). Arrange a layer of berries on one- 
half of the cake, dredge with fine sugar, and place 
the other half on the berries ; cover the top with 
largest berries and add a liberal quantity of sugar, 
and serve. A mixture of whipped white of egg 



SALAD OF MIXED FRUITS. 27 

and sugar is sometimes added to the top layer 
and it is placed in the oven a moment to set, 
but too much heat will spoil the berries. [The 
short-cake of the restaurants is not a true ' ' short- 
cake," it being made of layers of sponge cake.] 

Salad of Mixed Fruits.— Put in the center 
of a dish a pineapple, properly pared, cored, and 
sliced, yet retaining as near as practicable its 
original shape. Peel, quarter, and remove the 
seeds from four sweet oranges ; arrange them in 
a border around the pineapple. Select four fine 
bananas, peel and cut into slices lengthwise ; 
arrange these zigzag-fence fashion around the bor- 
der of the dish. In the V-shaped spaces around 
the dish put tiny mounds of grapes of mixed col- 
ors. When complete the dish should look very 
appetizing. To half a pint of clear sugar syrup 
add half an ounce each of brandy, maraschino, 
and curacoa ; pour over the fruit and serve. 

Sliced Pears.— Pare, quarter, and core four 
tine pears, put them in a compotier, and pour 
over them half a pint of hot SLigar syrup, cover 
and allow it to cool. Add a tablespoonful of 
brandy. Keep on ice until wanted. 

Strawberry Charlotte.— Prepare the char- 
lotte as prescribed in Banana Charlotte. Substi- 
tute strawberries for bananas and the result will 
be very gratifying. 



28 STKAWr.ERRV SHORT-CAKE. 

Strawberry Short-cake.— Sift together half 
a pound of Hour, a coi^eespoonful each of salt 
and of sugar, and two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Work into this mixture a quarter of a 
pound of cold washed butter ; add gradually two 
gills of cold boiled milk, mix quickly with a 
knife ; dredge flour over the moulding-board and 
turn the paste upon it, toss with the knife until 
it is floured, pat it gently with a floured rolling- 
pin and roll it down to half an inch thickness ; 
put a plate on top of the paste and cut round it, 
grease a baking-tin, put the rounds upon it and 
bake. When done make an incision round the 
center of the edge and tear them apart. If not 
too thick they need not be divided. Wash the 
berries to remove grit ; arrange a layer of them 
on one-half of the cake, dredge with fine sugar, 
and place the other half on the berries ; cover 
the top with largest berries and add a liberal 
quantity of sugar, and serve. A mixture of 
whipped white of egg and sugar is sometimes 
added to the top layer and it is placed in the 
oven a moment to set, but too much heat will 
spoil the berries. 

A novelty in short-cakes is made of black and 
white Hamburg grapes. Large California or 
^Malaga grapes may be used, if the seeds are not 
objected to. In our opinion grape seeds are a 



COLD CUSTARD. 29 

constant source of trouble and cause many oi the 
ills attributed to other sources. Seeds should 
therefore be rejected. 

Velvet Cream with Strawberries.— Half fill 
small moulds with fine strawberries, pour the 
cream on top and place on ice until wanted. (See 
Velvet Cream.) 



CUSTARDS AND OMELETS AS DES- 
SERTS. 

Cold Custard.— Wet a saucepan with cold 
water to prevent the milk that will be scalded in 
it from burning. Pour out the water and put in 
a quart of milk ; boil and partly cool. Beat up 
the yolks of six eggs and add three ounces of 
sugar and a saltspoonful of salt ; mix thoroughly 
and add the lukewarm milk. Stir and pour the 
custard into a porcelain or double saucepan and 
stir while on the range until of the consistency of 
cream, strain and when almost cold add flavor- 
ing if desired. Pour the custard in cups, which 
place on ice until wanted, or pour it into the 
freezer and freeze en bloc. After the eggs and 
cream have combined, it must not be allowed to 
boil or it will curdle. 

Cold Rice Custard. -Prepare a custard as in 



3o MERINGUE CUSTARD TARTLETS. 

the foregoing recipe. Add to it, before pouring 
into the cups, half a pint of boiled rice ; mix and 
keep surrounded with ice until wanted. 

Meringue Custard Tartlets.— The deep in- 
dividual pie-tins, fluted tartlet pans, are suitable 
for custard tarts, but they should be about six 
inches in diameter and from two to three inches 
deep. Butter the pan and line it with ordinary 
puff paste, then fill it with a custard made as 
follows : Stir gradually into the beaten yolks of 
six eggs two tablespoonfuls of flour, asaltspoon- 
ful of salt and half a pint of cream. Stir until 
free from lumps and add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, put the saucepan on the range and stir un- 
til the custard coats the spoon. Do not let it 
boil or it will curdle. Pour it in a bowl, add 
a few drops of vanilla flavoring and stir until the 
custard becomes cold ; fill the lined mould with 
this and bake in a moderate oven. In the 
mean time, put the white of the eggs in a bright 
copper vessel and beat thoroughly, using a 
baker's wire egg-beater for this purpose. While 
beating, sprinkle in lightly half a pound of sugar 
and a dash of salt. When the paste is quite firm, 
spread a thin layer of it over the tait and deco- 
rate the top with the remainder by squeezing it 
through a paper funnel. Strew a little pow- 
dered sugar over the top, return to the oven, and 



OMELET SOUFFLE. 3I 

when a delicate yellow tinge, remove from the 
oven and serve hot. 

Omelet Soufile.— Beat separately the whites 
of four and the yolks of two eggs ; whisk the 
whites into the yolks ; add a tiblespoonful of 
sugar and a iew drops of vanilla extract : turn it 
out on a shallow tin or plate, and bake about 
ten or twelve minutes. Serve immediately, and 
on the dish in vrhich it was baked. An Omelet 
Souffle is an excellent and inexpensive sweet or 
dessert dish, and one that should be more often 
met with in private families. The secret of mak- 
ing it is to beat the eggs thoroughly and serve 
it the moment it is taken from the oven, other- 
wise it will be flat and worthless. 

Omelet with Jelly.— Put a small quantity of 
lard or oil into the pan, let it simmer a few 
minutes and remove it, wipe the pan dry with a 
towel, and put in a little fresh oil in which the 
omelet may be fried. Care should be taken that 
the oil does not burn, which would spoil the color 
of the omelet. Break three eggs separately ; put 
them into a bowl and whisk them thoroughly 
with a fork. The longer they are beaten the 
lighter will the omelet be. Beat up a teaspoon- 
ful of milk with the eggs and continue to beat 
until the last moment before pouring into the 
pan, which should be over a hot fire. As soon 



32 



RUM OMELET. 



as the omelet sets, remove the pan from the hot- 
test part of the fire. Slip a knife under it to 
prevent sticking to the pan. When the center is 
ahnost firm, slant the pan, woik the omelet in 
shape to fold ; just before folding, add a table- 
spoonful of currant jelly ; turn it out on a hot 
dish, dust a little powdered sugar over it, and 
serve. 

Bum Omelet.- -Sweet Omelets are very often 
substituted for other desserts and are appropriate 
in an emergency. 

As a rule, an omelet is a wholesome and inex- 
pensive dish, yet one in the preparation of which 
cooks frequently fail, owing to carelessness of 
detail. With a little attention the housewife can 
easily become the perfect cook in this branch as 
well as others. 

The flavoring and the ingredients of omelets 
may be varied indefinitely, but the principle is 
always the same : in making an omelet care 
should be taken that the omelet pan is hot and 
dry. To ensure this, put a small quantity of 
lard into the pan, let it simmer a few minutes 
and remove it, wipe the pan dry with a towel and 
put in a little fresh lard in which the omelet may 
be fried. Care should be taken that the lard 
does not burn, which would spoil the color of 
the omelet. 



RUM OMELET. 33 

It is better to make two or three small omelets 
than one very large one, as the latter cannot be 
well handled by a novice. The omelet made of 
three eggs is the one recommended for begin- 
ners. Break the eggs separately ; put them into 
a bowl and whisk them thoroughly with a fork. 
The longer Ihey are beaten the lighter will the 
omelet be. Beat up a teaspoonful of milk with 
the eggs and continue to beat until the last 
moment before pouring into the pan, which 
should be over a hot lire. As soon as the omelet 
sets, remove the pan from the hottest part of the 
fire. Slip a knife under to prevent sticking to 
the pan. When the center is almost firm, slant 
the pan, work the omelet in shape to fold easily 
and neatly, and when slightly browned hold a 
platter against the edge of the pan and deftly turn 
it out on to the hot dish. 

Salt viixed with the eggs prevents them from 
rising, and when it is so used the omelet will 
look flabby, yet without salt it will taste insipid. 
Add a litde salt to it just before folding it and 
turn out on the dish. 

To make a rum omelet, prepare an omelet as 
has been directed, fold it and turn out on a hot 
dish ; dust a liberal quantity of powdered sugar 
over it, and singe the sugar into neat stripes with 
a hot iron rod, heated in the coals, pour a glasj 



34 APPLE MAXIOCA PUDDING. 

of warm Jamaica rum around it, and when it is 
placed on the table set fire to the rum. With a 
tablespoon dash the burning rum over the ome- 
let. 

Tapioca Custard.— Pick over carefully and 
wash one-quarter of a pound of small grain 
tapioca. Add to it a quart of boiling milk, two 
saltspoonfuls of salt, and boil slowly an hour 
and a half ; stir frequently ; when done, allow 
it to cool a little. Beat five eggs thoroughly, and 
add to them three ounces of sugar, an ounce of 
butter, and a dash of nutmeg. Gradually add 
the tapioca. Let the whole come to boiling 
point ; pour into cups or a mould, and serve hot 
or ice cold, as may be preferred. 



PUDDINGS. 

Apple-Manioca Pudding.— Put in one pint 
of milk four tablespoonfuls of manioca, and a 
saltspoonful of salt. Place these ingredients in 
a saucepan and after boiling pour into a dish, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one pint 
more of cold milk, two beaten eggs, the grated 
rind of one lemon, and a saltspoonful of mixed 
spice. Line a baking tin pan with sliced apples, 
pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate hot 
oven half an hour. 



BATTER PUDDIX! 



35 



Batter Pudding.— Beat separately the whites 
and yolks of four eggs ; mix with them eight 
ounces of flour and a saltspoonful of salt ; make 
a batter with a little more than a pint of milk ; 
mix. Butter a baking-tin, and just before pour- 
ing the mixture into it, add a teaspoonful of 
baking-powder. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Boiled Pudding.— Half a pint of chopped 
beef suet ; same amount of grated bread and 
same quantity of washed currants ; mix with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, a teaspoonful of lemon- 
peel, saltspoonful of salt and same of grated nut- 
meg ; whip up two eggs with half a pint of 
milk ; work the mixture to a light paste ; scald 
a few small pudding-cloths, wring them out, 
flour them, and tie a small portion of the mixture 
in each ; plunge them into boiling water, boil 
quickly half an hour, turn them out on a hot 
dish, dust sugar over them, and serve with the 
following sauce : I\relt an ounce of butter, add 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, teaspoon- 
ful of grated lemon-peel, pinch of nutmeg and a 
wineglassful of sherry. 

Boiled Rice Dumplings, Custard Sauce.— 
Boil half a pound of rice ; drain and pound it 
moderately fine. Add to it two ounces of butter, 
three ounces of sugar, half a saltspoonful of 
mixed ground spice, salt, and the yolks of two 



30 BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING. 



eggs. ^Moisten a trifle with a tablespoonful or 
two of cream. With floured hands shape the 
mixture into balls, and tie them in floured pud- 
ding-cloths. Steam or boil forty minutes, and 
send to table with a custard made as follows : 

Mix together four ounces of sugar and two 
ounces of butter (slightly warmed). Beat 
together the yolks of two eggs and a gill of 
cream ; mix and pour the sauce in a double 
saucepan ; set this in a pan of hot water, and 
whisk thoroughly three minutes. Set the sauce- 
pan in cold water and whisk until the sauce is 
cooled. 

Bread-and-Butter Pudding.— Select a loaf 
of stale bread. Do not remove the crust. Cut 
the loaf in thin slices and butter them ; half fill 
a pudding dish with them and fill up with a 
boiled custard : put the dish in a pan part full 
of water, and let it remain on top of the range 
an hour and a half, then place it in the oven to 
brown slightly. When done, serve with a sauce 
made as follows : Cream two ounces of butter, 
and add a heaping tablespoonful of flour, half a 
pint of cream, a tablespoonful of sugar, and two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry. Let it come to a boil, 
then place it on the back of the range. When 
lukewarm, whisk into it slowly the yolk of one 
egg, well beaten ; warm it slightly, and serve. 



BREAD- AXDFRUIT PUDDING. 37 

Bread-and-Fruit Pudding.— Trim off the 

crust from a quantity of dry bread and grate the 
remaining white part of it ; add to a pint of it 
one quart of hot boiled milk, two ounces of 
butter, four ounces of sugar, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a heaping saltspoonful of mixed 
ground spice. When cool, whisk into it four 
well-beaten eggs. Peel and slice a dozen fine, 
firm peaches ; add them to the mixture ; pour 
it into a brown bread or deep pudding mould ; 
place it in a pot of hot water and steam three 
hours. Serve either hot or cold and with an egg 
or cream sauce, flavored with lemon or vanilla. 
Canned fruits of all kinds may be used when 
fresh are too expensive. 

Bread Pudding.— Soak a pint of grated bread 
crumbs in one and a half pints of milk. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs with a tablespoonful of 
sugar, a litde salt and the grated rind of one 
lemon, mix into the bread and place in an oven 
to bake. Whisk the whites of an egg with a 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar and the juice 
of half a lemon, and when light add to the pud- 
ding, return to the oven again and bake to a 
light brown. 

Carrot Pudding.— Americans, as a class, 
unfortunately do not appreciate the young carrot 
— either as a vegetable or as the basis of sweet 



SS CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

dishes — nearly as much as foreigners do. They 
are excellent served as fritters, and in puddings, 
pies, jam, cheese-cakes, soups, etc. A very nice 
pudding is made as follows : Half a pint of 
grated bread crumbs, one-quarter of a pound of 
flour, one-quarter of a pound of butter, half a 
pound of dried or preserved cherries, half a 
pound of crushed sugar and a saltspoonful of 
salt. Boil a dozen young carrots three-quarters 
of an hour, rub them through a sieve and add 
half a pound of the pulp to the mixture ; mix 
thoroughly ; pour in a buttered mould and steam 
two and a half hours ; serve with a sauce made 
as follows : Boil one-quarter of a pound of 
sugar in a pint of water ; skim off the surface 
until clear ; add a wineglassful of sherry ; when 
cool, beat an egg and whisk it into the syrup. 

Chocolate Pudding.— Add one ounce of 
grated chocolate to a quart of milk ; boil 
thoroughly ; flavor with vanilla ; set aside to 
cool ; then stir in the yolks of six eggs, well 
beaten ; bake in a buttered pudding dish until 
it stiffens like custard. Beat the whites of six 
eggs with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, to 
a stiff froth ; spread over the top of the pud- 
ding ; return to the oven and brown quickly. 

Cold Apple Pudding.— Sift one pint of flour, 
add one-quaitcr of a teaspoonful of salt. Beat 



COLD CABINET PUDDING. 39 

the whites and yolks of four eggs separatelv ; add 
the yolks and half a pint of rich cream, add a 
pint of strained apple sauce, six ounces of sugar, 
a pinch of cinnamon, and beat in the whites of 
the eggs. Pour into a very deep pan, or, better 
still, a deep mould, which place in a pan partly 
full of hot water : let it simmer on the back of 
the range for three-quarters of an hour ; then 
put pan and pudding in the oven for about the 
same length of time. When done, it may be 
served hot if liked, or packed in ice and served 
cold with a rich cream sauce. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding.— Grease a quart 
pudding-mould and cover the bottom with pieces 
of candied lemon and orange peel, cut diamond 
shape. Between each four diamonds place a 
boiled seedless raisin ; cover the fruit with a layer 
of stale sponge cake, and add a layer of raisins 
or other dried candied fruits ; repeat with alter- 
nate layers of cake and fruit until the mould is 
full. Beat up the yolks of four eggs with half a 
teaspoonful of salt and three ounces of sugar. 
Whisk into them a pint and a gill of lukewarm 
milk ; pour this into the mould. Place the mould 
in a pan of hot water ; let it remain on the back 
of the range an hour, then set pan and all in 
a moderate oven and bake one hour. Let it cool. 
When cold surround it with ice, and when 



40 COLD MARQUISE PUDDING. 

wanted, serve with a cold rich custard sauce, 
flavored with vanilla or sherry wine. 

Cold Marquise Pudding.- Open a two- 
pound can (.: preserved pears, drain them from 
the liquid, cut them small and rub them through 
a sieve ; add half a pint of white sugar syrup. 
Cut up two pineapples into thin slices, and then 
into small dice. Add their weight of sugar and 
a pint ot water ; simmer half an hour, set aside 
to cool. Boil half a pound of dried cherries in 
half a pint of syrup and cool. Surround the ice- 
cream freezer with ice, put the pear pulp in it 
and work it until partly frozen ; add while 
working the pears with the spatula, the well- 
beaten v>'hites of four eggs. Drain the cherries 
and the pineapple from the syrup and add them, 
and when nearly frozen, put the mixture in an 
ice-pudding mould. Surround it with ice and 
salt undl wanted. If you can afiord it, a pint of 
sweet champagne frappeed and served with the 
puddings as a sauce will be found delightful. 

Cold Plum Pvidding.— Plum pudding is a 
winter dish, and is only tolerated in summer 
when served cold. As there is much trouble in 
preparing it we recommend the plum pudding 
of the grocer, for use in summer. Boil the 
pudding and cool it, put it in a mould, sur- 
round it with wine or brandy jelly and pack it 



COT.D RICE PUDDING. 41 

in ice. When wanted dip the mould in hot 
water an instant, turn it out, cut in slices and 
serve. 

Cold Rice Pudding.— The dish prepared 
according to rice pudding recipe may be placed 
on ice and served cold, but a richer pudding is 
more appreciated. Beat the whites and yolks of 
six eggs separately ; add four ounces of sugar, a 
little flavoring and salt to the yolks, and add 
cold boiled rice enough to make a stiff batter. 
Beat in the whisked whites ; pour the mixture 
into cups, set them in a pan partly filled with 
hot water, place on the back of the range for 
half an hour, then put the pan and puddings in 
the oven and bake forty minutes. When cold 
surround them with ice. A rich cold custard 
sauce may be served with them. 

Cold Scotch Pudding.— Soak a pint of 
grated oatmeal crackers in one and a half pints 
of milk. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a 
heaping tablespoonful of powdered sugar, salt- 
spoonful of salt and the grated rind of a lemon ; 
mix with the soaked crackers. Beat the whites 
of the eggs widi a tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar, whisk into the mixture : pour into small 
moulds (a little over half full) and set them in a 
pan containing warm water, place on top of 
range half an hour, then put the pan in the oven 



42 OREEX- APPLE DUMPLTXG. 

and bake forty-five minutes. When cool set 
them on ice and serve v/ith wine sauce. 

Green-Apple Dumpling— Fruit Sauce.— 

Wash and chop fine a quarter of a pound of beef 
suet, add to it half a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
pound of flour, a teaspoonful of baking-powder, 
and half a pint of milk, or enough to make a 
stiff paste ; roll it out, fold it and place on ice 
until wanted. Peel and core six green apples ; 
fill the center with a mixture of sugar, seasoned 
or spiced with a little ground cloves and butter 
(enough to hind it together), cover each apple 
with a thick layer of the paste, tie them in small 
pudding-cloths and steam them an hour and a 
half. Boil together a pint of raspberries, quarter 
of a pound of sugar and two gills of water, sim- 
mer gently, remove the scum as fast as it arises, 
strain through a small sieve, and serve. 

Indian Pudding.— Sift one pint of Indian 
vellow meal, add to it two ounces of chopped 
beef suet, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two gills 
of black molasses. Beat up two eggs and add 
to them one quart of milk ; mix and pour the 
paste into a small earthen pot. Set it in a pan 
of water and bake slowly three hours. 

Lemon Pudding.— Moisten half a pint of 
fine farina with a gill of cold milk ; add it to a 
pint of hot milk and stir well. Add a salt- 



IVTAXIOCA PUDDING. 43 

spoonful of salt and two ounces of butter, stir 
until quite smooth and thick, and allow it to 
become cold. Beat together four eggs, six 
ounces of sugar, the grated rind and juice of 
two lemons and a dash of ground cinnamon ; 
stir into this mixture the cold farina, a small 
quantity at a time, until used, then pour it into 
a buttered pudding-dish and bake forty minutes. 
It maA^ be served hot, but is better when served 
cold, during hot weather. 

Manioca Pudding.— Three tablespoonfuls of 
manioca, one quart of milk, a little salt, one 
tablespoonful of butter, and two well-beaten 
eggs ; sugar, spice, or flavoring to the taste. 
Mix manioca in half the milk cold, and, with 
the butter, stir on the fire until it thickens, pour 
it quickly into a dish, stir in the sugar and re- 
maining milk, and when quite cool add the 
eggs, spice, and wine or other flavoring. This 
pudding maybe varied by omitting the eggs and 
substituting currants, chopped raisins, or can- 
died lemon, orange, or citron sliced. Bake half 
an hour in a moderate oven. 

It is also very nice served cold. 

M6ringue Pudding.— To a pint of grated 
bread crumbs add a quart of milk ; mix together 
five ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter and 
the. beaten yolks of five eggs. Grate the outer 



44 MTKt'TE Pl'DDING. 

yellow rind of two lemons and with the juice of 
one mix all together ; flavor with ground mixed 
spice to suit }our taste ; put the mixture in a 
buttered pan and bake twenty- five minutes. Beat 
the white of the eggs to a spongy froth with 
three ounces of fine sugar ; take the pudding 
out of the oven, add the ^Meringue, and when 
slightly colored, it is done. 

Minute Pudding.— Sift half a pound of 
flour ; add half a teaspoonful of salt and a' 
tablespoonful of sugar ; make a batter by add- 
ing half a pint of milk ; boil the batter in boil- 
ing water five minutes, and pour off the water. 
Wet a few cups with cold water, turn the pud- 
ding into these, and serve with a sauce made of 
melted butter and water thickened with a little 
flour. 

Plum Pudding.— A very good plum-pudding 
is made as follows : Giate the inner part of a loaf 
of moderately stale home-made bread ; add to 
six ounces of it a pound of flour, a pound of 
beef suet floured and chopped fine, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half a pound of blanched almonds or 
walnuts, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of 
raisins stoned and chopped, half a pound of 
washed currants, two ounces each of candied 
citron, lemon-peel, and orange-peel cut fine, 
half a pound of chopped apple, half an ounce of 



PINEAPPLE CABINET PUDDING. 45 

mixed ground spice, and a teaspoonful of fresh 
lemon-juice. Beat together five eggs and a {)int 
of milk. Stir it into the mixture ; add half a 
pint of California brandy, and pour the mixture 
into a porcelain-lined kettle. Simmer gently 
and stir it well for fifteen minutes ; put the 
mixture in bowls previously scalded, and when 
cool cover them with well- washed muslin and 
put them away. When wanted, boil or steam 
four houis, turn cut of the bowl, and put on top 
of it a few squares of cut sugar, pour on a little 
brandy, and set it afire. Serve with a thin 
custard sauce flavored with \'anilla or brandy. 
But very little of this pudding should be given 
to young people, as it might affect them. The 
pudding will keep a year. 

Pineapple Cabinet Pudding.— This is an 
excellent pudding and can be prepared at quite 
reasonable cost at this season of the year. Pro- 
ceed as in recipe for cold cabinet pudding, using 
diamond-shaped pieces of fresh pineapple instead 
of dried or candied fruits. It may be served hot, 
but is better cold. 

Rice a I'lmperatrice.— Wash a pint of rice 
and boil it in a quart of milk until tender ; add 
three ounces of sugar, and stir while cooking, 
until the sugar is dissolved. Remove it from the 
fire and when cold add the well- beaten volks of 



46 RICE PUDDING. 

five eggs. Soak one ounce of fine gelatine in 
cold water until soft, add to it three gills of boil- 
ing cream and two ounces of sugar ; stir until 
dissolved, strain into a tin, which place in a 
wooden bowl surrounded with ice. When it 
commences to set whisk into it the whipped 
froth of three half- pints of cream, flavor with a 
few drops of extract, and work this into the rice 
mixture as lightly as possible. Put in the bot- 
tom of the moulds a tablespoonful of preserves 
or jelly, fill the moulds with the preparation and 
keep them on ice until wanted. 

Rice Pudding.— Wash two ounces of rice in 
two waters, then drain and add three half-pints 
of milk, an ounce of sugar, a little salt and a 
dash of nutmeg ; let stand three-quarters of an 
hour, then bake in a moderate oven until a de- 
licate brown. A rich rice pudding may be had 
by using eggs. 

Spanish Apple Pudding.— Cover the bottom 
of a pudding dish with a light puff paste, and 
lay on it a layer of thin slices of apples ; strew 
over them a tablespoonful of sugar and a salt- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon ; another layer of 
sliced apples sprinkled with a tablespoonful of 
sugar and a saltspoonful of ground cloves ; 
another layer of apples, sugar, and a saltspoonful 
of grated nutmeg. Cover with a top crust with 



SPANISH PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 47 

a hole in its center. Mix together a gill of white 
wine vinegar with two ounces of sugar, pour it 
in the hole and bake thirty minutes. 

Spanish Pineapple Pudding.— Proceed as 
in the above recipe, using shredded pineapple 
instead of apple, and use sherry instead of vine- 
gar. 

Spanish Fruit Pudding.— Line a baking- 
dish with a light putf paste, add a layer of shred- 
ded pineapple and cover it with powdered sugar ; 
add a layer of sweet oranges sliced, strew over 
them a thin layer of sugar ; next add a layer of 
sliced bananas with sugar strewn over them. 
Repeat the process until the dish is full. Cover 
the dish with a light puff paste, and bake to a 
delicate brown. 

Sponge Pudding.— Sift together a quarter of 
a pound of flour and three ounces of sugar, mix 
two gills of cold milk, and work it into three 
half-pints of boiling milk : stir over the range 
until smooth and thick. Now add two ounces 
of creamed butter and whisk into it the well- 
beaten yolks of eight eggs. Beat up the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff foam and work it into the 
batter. Pour the mixture into custard cups, set 
them in a pan of hot water and bake to a light 
brown : serve with vanilla sauce. 

Steamed Peach Pudding.- Sift together one 



4o TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH PEACHES. 

pint of flour, two heaping teaspoonf ills of baking- 
powder and two saltspoonfuls of salt. Beat 
together the yolks of two eggs with three ounces 
of sugar and half a pint of milk, add this to the 
flour. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and 
add it also. Cut six nice peaches, dredge them 
with flour and add to the mixture ; pour into a 
buttered pudding-mould and steam two and a 
half hours. Send to table with a creamy sauce 
flavored with a spoonful of brandy. 

Tapioca Pudding with Peaches. —Wash 
half a pmt of small tapioca ; put in a double 
boiler, add a liberal quart of boiling water and 
boil half an hour. Peel and halve a dozen 
peaches, put them in a pan, add one quarter of 
a pound of powdered sugar, a saltspoonful oi 
mixed ground spice, four ounces of butter and 
the grated rind of a lemon. Pour the tapioca 
over the fruit, bake to a delicate brown, and 
serve — hot or cold — with cream or wine sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce.— Put half a pint of milk in a 
small saucepan ; when hot add the whisked 
yolks of three eggs and stir until it is the con- 
sistency of custard ; remove it from the fire, 
and when it is cool add a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract and the beaten whites of two eggs. 



PIE CRUST. 49 

PIES. 

It is our firm conviction that the average pie 
of to-day is the direct cause of more ill-nature 
and general " cussedness" in mankind than any- 
thing else, and that there lurks more solid, 
downright dyspepsia in a square inch of baker's 
pie than in all the other dyspeptic-producing 
compounds known. The pie we desire to see 
upon the American table is one that is more the 
receptable for fruit than a blending of fruit with 
puff-paste so soggy that lead would digest almost 
as easily. When a top crust is used let there be 
but little of it, and so light and delicate that 
" fairy footfalls" would break through it. We 
here present two recipes for making pies, which, 
to say the least, are not only original but are also 
healthful. The puff paste for these pies is made 
as follows : 

Pie Crust.— Sift together one quart of flour, 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of 
Horsford's baking-powder ; add gradually three 
gills of milk ; work to a dough, divide into four 
parts, and roll out the desired size. This crust 
when eaten is not harmful. 

Puff Paste.— A rich puff paste is not made 
without much trouble, and it requires much 
practice to make it perfect. Put in a bowl one 
quart of ice water, four pieces of ice, each piece 



50 HOME-MADE APPLE PIE. 

as large as an egg, and a pound of the very best 
butter. Work the butter with the hands until of 
a waxy consistency. Should the hands become 
numb, dip them in hot water for a moment. 
Divide the butter into three parts and keep on ice 
until wanted. Sift together one quart of flour 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Chop one-third of the 
butter in pieces, and work it into the flour with 
the fingers. When thoroughly incorporated add 
by degrees half a pint of ice- water ; work the 
paste until it looks like minute pellets ; turn it 
out on a floured board, and dredge with flour. 
Now comes the troublesome part of the operation 
— the use of the rolling-pin, with gentle taps of 
which reduce the size of the paste until it is right 
for rolling out. When quite smooth and about 
half an inch thick, roll it out, covering as large a 
surface as possible. Dredge one of the pieces of 
butter with flour and pat it quite thin ; put it 
on the paste and fold, first the sides and then 
the ends ; press it with the palm of the hand, 
and roll out again. Repeat this process, using 
the third piece of butter. If you are not ex- 
hausted, roll out twice or three times more, 
then keep on ice until wanted. 

Home-made Apple Pie.— Line a buttered 
pie-tin with pie-crust, as above, or puff paste ; 
cut some of it in strij^s three-quarters of an inch 



MINCE PIE. 51 

wide ; wet the edge of the paste in the tin, and 
arrange a strip around the rim ; cut the top of 
the border slightly, and add another rim. Peel, 
quarter, and core a few of the best sour apples 
obtainable. Cut each quarter in three pieces ; 
arrange them neatly in the pie- tin, slightly 
mound-shaped in the center ; to each pie add a 
teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, half a salt- 
s{)Oonful of freshly ground cloves, and sugar — 
three ounces of which will make the pie moder- 
ately sweet, and four to five ounces decidedly 
sweet. Bake thirty minutes. While baking 
beat a pint of cold cream in a bowl surrounded 
with ice, whisk it thoroughly with a baker's 
egg-whip or beater until a substantial froth is 
formed, and keep it on ice until wanted. When 
the pies are done and have cooled, add a mound 
of the whipped cream, and when the pie is 
about to be served let the head of the family 
state emphatically to those at table that the 
under-crust is not to be eaten. Serve a spoon 
with this kind of a pie instead of a fork. When 
variety is required a meringue may be used 
instead of the whipped cream. In this case it 
should be returned to the oven a moment to 
color the top slighdy. 

Mince Pie.— There must be a proper time to 
cat so hearty a dish asmince-pie, but it certainly 



52 MINXE PIE. 

is not at the end of a heavy I'hanksgiving din- 
ner. Even plum-pudding is, in my judgment, 
altogether too heavy to serve as a dessert after the 
numerous rich viands of a holiday dinner, and 
yet to ignore them upon such occasions would 
seem to be striking a blow at our long-estab- 
lished customs. If they must be served to bring 
back the pleasant memories of our youth, make 
the portions very small. 

The prepared mincemeat of our first-class 
grocers is recommended to small families, as its 
ingredients are more perfectly blended than when 
the compound is made in small quantities. If, 
however, it is desired to make it at home, do so 
as follows : Put into a chopping-bowl half a 
pound of lean, boiled meat, a quarter of a pound 
of suet, three pounds of sliced apple, and chop 
all together very fine. Remove this and put in 
the bowl a pound of sweet almonds, blanched ; 
chop them fine with a pound of seedless raisins ; 
add these to the meat, and also add a pound of 
washed currants, half a tablespoonful of salt, the 
juice and rind of two lemons, a pound and a 
half of light C sugar, a tablespoonful of mixed 
ground spice, and a quarter of a pound of 
chopped candied orange-peel. Boil down a 
quart of good soup-stock two-thirds, and add to 
the mixture. Put all in a porcelain-lined stew- 



MINCE PIE. 



DO 



pan, and simmer on the back of the range half 
an hour ; while warm add a pint of good brandy, 
and put it away in jars. 

Line the pie-plates with the crust or puff paste, 
add the mince, and put a buttered paper over 
them : bake, remove from the oven, and add to 
the top of each the beaten whites of eggs made 
as for meringue ; return to the oven a moment 
to slightly color the top, and serve hot. The 
top crust being avoided and the under crust not 
being eaten, much of the terror of mince-pie 
is removed. Citron, or, in fact, any similar 
preserved fruits, may be substituted for the 
orange-peel. 



THE BOOK OF ENTREES 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 



REMARKS ON ENTRIES, ... 9 
ENTREES OF SHELL-FISH, ETC. 

Crab Croquettes, . . . .11 

Crab Patties a la Bechamel, . 11 

Crabs a l'Americaine, . . .13 

Crabs, Deviled, . . . . 13 

Crayfish, Saute, ox Toast, . .13 

Curry of Lobster, . . . . 14 

Cutlet of Lobster, Tomato Sauce, . 14 

Green Turtle Steak, Epicurean, . 15 

Lobster Croquettes, with Peas, . 15 
Lobsters en Brochette, . . .16 

Oyster AND Canned Salmon Pie, . 16 

Oyster Patties, . . . . 16 

Oysters a la Poulette, . . .17 

Pie of Oysters and Scallops, . 17 

Prawns, Deviled, en Coquille, . 18 

Praw^ns, Saute, a la Marengo, . 18 

Scalloped Oysters, . . . .19 

Small Patties of Scallops, . . 19 

Soft-Shell Clams, Scalloped, . .19 



4 CONTENTS. 

PAGR 

Stewed Lobster, a la Creole, . 20 

Stewed Terrapin 21 

Vol-au-Vent of Shrimps and Lop.sters, 2 1 

ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME. 

Chicken, Braise, with new Carrots, 2^ 
Chicken Curry, . . . . .24 

Chicken Fricassee, with Mushrooms, 24 
Chicken Fricassee, with Peas, . 25 
Chicken Hash on Rice Toast, . . 26 
Chicken Patties, ... .26 

Chicken, Saute, Sauce Bordelaise, . 27 
Curry of Venison, . . . .27 
Duckling Pot Roast, . . . .28 
Fried Chicken, Cream Sauce, . 28 
Goslings a la Chasseur, . . .29 
Minced Turkey with Poached Egg, 29 

Rabbit Curry, 30 

Reed Birds, a la Clement, . . 31 
Salmi of Venison, Port Wine Sauce, 31 
Sauce Bordelaise, . . . .32 
Spring Chicken, Hungarian Style, 32 
Squabs, Saute, a la Marengo, . . 32 
Squirrel Pot-Pie, Hunters' Style, 33 

ENTREES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbread Croquettes with Peas, 35 
Sweetbreads a la Milanaise, . . 36 



contents. 

Sweetbreads a la Perigord, . 
Sweetbreads, Braise, with Sorrel 
Sweetbreads en Brochette, . 
Sweetbreads, Larded, with Peas, 
Sweetbreads, Macedoine, 

ENTREES OF VEGETABLES 

Artichokes, Stuffed, 
Baked Tomatoes, 
Cauliflower, au Parmesan, . 
Cauliflower, Tomato Sauce, 
Celery, Braise, with Gravy, . 
Celery Croquettes, . 
Field Mushrooms on Toast, . 
Kohl-Rabi a la Creme, 
Macaroni, au Gratin, . 
New Onions' au Gratin, 
Okra, Stuffed, 
Oyster-Plant, au Gratin, . 
Peppers, Stuffed, . 
Potato Croquettes, . 
Rice Croquettes, . 
Stuffed Tomatoes, 

ENTREES OF FISH. 
Codfish Tongues, 
Curry of Eels, with Rice, 
Eels en Matelotte, au Gratin, 



5 

page 

36 

. 36 

37 

• 37 

38 



39 
40 
40 
40 
41 
41 
41 
42 
43 
43 
43 
44 
44 
44 
45 
45 



46 
46 
47 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Fillet of Bluefish, au Gratin, . 47 

Fillet of Pompano, Cream Sauce, 

Fillet of Salmon Trout, 

Fillet of Sole, Sauce Tartare, . 

Fresh Sturgeon Steak Marinade 

Frogs' Legs a la Poulette, . 

Frogs* Legs a la Secret, 

Frogs' Legs, Fried, Sauce Tartare 

Royans a la Vatel, . 

Salmon Croquettes, . 

Sauce Tartare, 

Shad Roe a la Poulette, . 

Smelts with Tomatoes, au Gratin, 

Stewed Eels, German Style, . 

Vol-au-Vent of Frogs' Legs, . 



47 
48 
48 
49 
49 
50 
50 
51 
51 
52 
52 
53 
53 
54 
ENTREES OF BEEF. 

Beef, a la Mode, . . ^ . 54 
Beef, Braise, a la Macedoine, . .55 
Beef, Braise, Hungarian Style, 
Beef, Braise, with Young Carrots, 
Beefsteak Pie, .... 
Filet Mignon, Sauce Bordelaise, 
Fillet of Beef, Sauce Bearnaise, , 
Hamburg Steak, 
Roast Sirix)in of Beef, Yorkshire 
Pudding, 58 



CONTENTS. 7 
PAGE 

Sauce Bearnaise, . . . .60 

Sauce Bordelaise, . . . .61 

Tongue with Spatzen, Boilep . .61 

Tripe Lyonnaise, . . . .62 

Tripe with Clams, a la Poulette, . 62 

Tripe with Oysters, . . . .63 

ENTREES OF CALF'S HEAD. 

Calf's Head, 6^ 

Calf's Head a la Poulette, . . 64 

Calf's Head en Tortue, . . 64 

Calf's Head, Sauce Vinaigrette, . 66 

Calf's Head, Sauce Tartare, . . 66 

Calf's Head, Terrapin Style, . 67 

Minced Calf's Head, . . .67 

ENTREES OF LAMB. 

Breast of Lamb, with Peas, . . 68 

Epigramme of Lamb, Maci^doine, . 69 

Fricassee of Lamb, with Peas, . . 69 

Lamb Chops, with French Peas, . 70 

Lamb Fritters, Tomato Sauce, . .70 

Lamb's Head, Stuffed, . . . 7^ 

Lamb's Tongue on Toast, . . .71 

Tomato Sauce, . . . .72 



» CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

Cold Mutton with Puree of Toma- 
toes, . . . . . .72 

Minced Mutton with Poached Egg, . 73 
Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon, . 73 
Plain Mutton Curry, . . .74 

ENTREES OF PORK. 

Broiled Pork Tenderloin, . . .76 
Tenderloin of Pork with Fried Ap- 
ples, 77 

ENTRl&ES OF VEAL. 

Curry of Veal, 77 

Epigrammes of Veal, . . .78 
Fricandeau of Veal, . . .78 
Fricassee of Veal with Oyster-Plant, 79 
Ragout of Veal, Jardiniere, . . 80 
Veal Croquettes with String-Beans, 81 
Veal Cutlet a la Proven^ale, . 81 
Veal Cutlet, Broiled, with Sorrel, . 82 
Veal Cutlet, German Style, . . 83 
Veal Cutlet, Saute, with Puree of 
Carrots, 83 



REMARKS ON ENTREES. 

Entrees are the middle dishes of the feast, 
and not the principal course, as many suppose ; 
they are a series of dainty side dishes, in the 
preparation of which the cook demonstrates the 
extent of her capabilities. Should they be pre- 
pared in a careless, indifferent manner, they cloy 
the palate and prevent that much-abused organ 
from appreciating the more important dishes of 
the feast. They should not only be nicely pre- 
pared, but much care and ingenuity should be 
shown in the arraying of them on the platter. 
To prepare palate-pleasing entrees one must 
study to please the eye quite as much as the 
palate. 

Many of the recipes in this little work may 
be served at breakfast and at lunch, while the 
shell-fish entrees will be found most appropriate 
for Lenten and fast day meals. 



ENTREES OF SHELL-FISH, ETC. 

Crab Croquettes. — Take one pound of crab 
meat, gently press out the juice and put it in a 
bowl, with a tablespoonful of fine crumbs, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pep- 
per, a dash of anchovy essence, the yolks of two 
eggs, and a very little cold water. If the eggs 
are not enough to make it the proper consist- 
ency bind the ingredients together and place on 
ice until wanted ; then work into corks or cone- 
shaped forms, dip them in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

Crab Patties, a la Bechamel.— Prepare the 
shells the same as for oyster patties (which see). 
Put into a saucepan half an ounce of butter, 
half a medium-sized onion minced, half a pound 
of minced raw veal, one small carrot shredded; 
toss about for two minutes to fry but not to 
color ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir it 
about with the vegetables, then add three pints 
of hot water, or if convenient use hot soup-stock 
instead ; add a pint of boiling cream. Season 
with half a teaspoonful of salt and. a saltspoon- 



12 CRAH PATTIKS, A LA BECHAMEL. 

fill of white pepper. Simmer one hour and 
strain into a saucepan. Add to each pint of 
sauce half a wine-glassful of cream. Simmer 
until reduced enough to coat a spoon ; strain it 
again into a crock and whisk it until cold, to 
prevent a thick top from forming. When wanted 
for patties, or anything else, boil one pint of it 
with an ounce of butter, vrhisking it thoroughly. 
Prepare a quart of solid crab meat, either picked 
from the shells or purchased already prepared ; 
add it to a pint of the sauce ; strew in a few 
shredded mushrooms ; fill the crab-shells with 
this, and serve. On fast days omit veal and 
stock from meats, and use milk instead. 

[This very excellent sauce was named after the 
Marquis de Bechamel, a worthless court-lounger 
and steward under Louis XIV. Why his un- 
savory memory has been perpetuated by a gas- 
tronomic monument of worth, is one of those 
inexplicable historical facts that students of thti 
art of cookery are continually stumbling upon 
The close observer will not fail, however, tc 
discover that nearly all dishes named after old 
French celebrities were stolen bodily from old 
Venetian and Provencal books of cookery, and 
were re-baptized after some of the most notorious 
profligates of the i yth and iSth centuries. Many 



CRABS A LA AMERICAIXE. 1 3 

of these old cock books, like '"' Opusculum de 
Obsoniis de Honesta Voluptate," a volume print- 
ed at Venice, 1475 (^^^ ^^^t cookery book pub- 
lished), and others, contain recipes almost iden- 
tical with French cookery of the past few cen- 
turies.] 

Crabs ^ rAmericaine. — Pick out the meat 
from the shells of four dozen boiled hard-shell 
crabs ; squeeze out the water gently ; put the 
meat in a bowl, and add the yolks of two raw 
eggs, salt, cayenne, and a very little chopped 
parsley, and two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs; 
roll the mixture into small balls or cakes ; dip 
in egg batter, roll in cracker-crumbs and fry to 
a delicate brown. They may be served plain or 
with tomato sauce. 

Crabs, Deviled..— Pick out the meat of four 
dozen boiled hard-shell crabs, put it into a 
bowl and add a half-pint of mayonnaise. Mix 
carefully with your hand, wash a dozen of the 
shells, put a little of the mixture into each, grate 
a loaf of dry bread, season a pint of it with salt 
and pepper ; sprinkle it over the crabs evenly ; 
make twelve little balls of butter about the size 
of hickory-nuts ; put one on top of each crab 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Crayfish, Saut6, on Toast.— Boil the crayfish 
in the shell and when cold remove the meat 
from the tail, split it in two lengthwise and re- 



14 CURRY OF LOBSTER. 

move the thread-like intestine. Put in the 
frying-pan a teaspoonful of butter ; when hot, 
toss the crayfish in it until slightly brown ; add 
salt and pepper and a dash of walnut catsup. 
Just before serving sprinkle over prepared dry 
toast a very little sherry, then add the crayfish 
to the toast, and send to table with lemon 
quartered. 

Curry of Lobster.— Remove the meat from 
two boiled lobsters, cut it into neat pieces, take 
all green fat and coral and set them aside, mix 
the green fat with a heaping spoonful of curry 
powder. Squeeze out the juice of three limes 
and add to it half a teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar. Put into a frving-pan an ounce of but- 
ter ; when creamed add a teaspoonful of minced 
onion browned a little ; now add the mixed 
curry powder, dissolve a teaspoonful of rice 
flour in cold water, add this to a pint of hot 
water or soup-stock, simmer until thick, now 
add the lobster and simmer twenty minutes 
longer. Wash and dry the coral, separate it. 
Prepare a border of rice on a dish and over it 
sprinkle the coral and eggs (if any), i)our the 
curry in the centre, and serve. 

Cutlet of Lobster, Tomato Sauce.— Mince 
the meat of a one-pound can of lobster ; add to 
it the yolks of two eggs, half a teaspoonful of 



GREEN TURTLE STEAK, EPICUREAN. 15 

salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, two ounces 
of butter, and a tablespoonful of grated bread 
crumbs. Mix and shape the mixture in the 
form of cutlets ; dip them in beaten egg, roll 
them in crumbs and fry in very hot fat. 
Stick a two-inch piece of macaroni in the small 
end, put a fancy paper on it and send to table 
with tomato sauce. (See page 72 for Tomato 
Sauce ) 

Green Turtle Steak, Epicurean.— Raw tur- 
tle steaks may be had at any first-class restau- 
rant, and occasionally at the fish-stands. It is 
not advantageous for small families to purchase 
whole turtles, or rather tortoises, for soup and 
steaks. Trim away the thigh-bone, and flatten 
the meat in the form of a steak. Melt two 
ounces of butter in a chafing-dish ; when very 
hot, add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
a tablespoonful of currant jelly, a gill of port 
wine, and a little salt. Stew the steak in this 
until tender, and serve from the chafing-dish. 

Lobster Croquettes, with Peas.— Boil one- 
half pint of milk, thicken it with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and let it become cold. Mince the 
meat of a one-pound can of lobster, or one 
pound of fresh lobster ; when very fine, add a 
saltspoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of 
white pepper. Moisten the lobster mince with 



1 6 LOBbTERS EN BKCKJHETTE. 

the thickened milk and work the whole to a 
paste ; add very little bread-crumb if too thin ; 
let it become amalgamated over the range and 
place in the ice-box until wanted ; then shape it 
into neat rolls or cones ; dip them in egg and 
crumbs and fry in plenty of hot fat. Arrange 
the forms neatly on a dish, put round them a 
border of peas, and serve. 

Lobsters en Brochette.— Instead of boiling 
the lobster tails, cut them in pieces, and ar- 
range these on small skewers, alternated with 
small pieces of bacon ; brush melted butter 
over them, and either broil or bake them ; serve 
with sauce tartare (which see on page 52). 

Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie. —One 
pound of best canned salmon, one pint of solid 
oysters, half a pint of oyster lic^uid ; cover the 
bottom of the dish with neat pieces of the sal- 
mon, season with salt and pepper and an ounce 
of butter rolled in flour, add a few oysters and 
so on until the ingredients are used. Pour in 
the liquid of both, and cover the top with paste. 
Bake in a moderate oven. There should be 
liquid enough to have the ingredients moist 
when served. 

Oyster Patties.— Roll out a pound of light 
puff-paste, half an inch in thickness ; cut it into 
rounds with a cake-cutter two inches in dia- 



OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. 1 7 

meter ; press a small cutter, one inch in dia- 
meter, on each round, one-fourth of an inch 
deep. Place them on a buttered tin, brush a 
little beaten egg over them, and bake in a quick 
oven. When done, remove the center and a 
little of the inside. Scald or, as it is called, 
blanch three dozen oysters ; drain. Put into a 
saucepan two ounces of butter, whisk it to a 
cream ; add a teaspoonful of flour, stir free 
from lumps ; add a heaping saltspoonful of salt, 
and a pepperspoonful of white pepper; whisk 
into it half a pint each of hot cream and the 
oyster liquor ; allow it to simmer a few minutes 
and to thicken ; then add the oysters and a 
** squeeze "of lemon juice ; when hot fill the 
shells, and serve. If nutmeg is not objected to, 
a little may be used. 

Oysters ^ la Poulette.— Blanch [scald] a 
dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain them 
and add to the liquor, salt, half an ounce of 
butter, the juice of half a lemon, a gill of cream 
and a teaspoonful of dissolved flour. Beat the 
yolk of one egg and add to the sauce. Stir 
until the sauce thickens, place the oysters on a 
hot dish, pour the sauce over them, add a very 
little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Pie of Oysters and Scallops.— Take one 
pint of fresh scallops and wash them in cold 



1 8 PRAWNS, DEVILED, EN COQUILLE. 

water ; drain, and dry them in a napkin. Cut 
a few slices of fat bacon in strips small enough 
to insert the ends in a larding-needle ; lard the 
scallops v/ith them, and dredge them slightly 
with flour. Select one quart of fat oysters ; 
line a baking-dish with puff-paste ; add the 
scallops and oysters in layers ; season with salt, 
})epper, and a dash of mace. Di\ ide an ounce 
of butter into little balls, roll them in flour, and 
put them between the layers ; add the oyster 
liquor. Cover with a top crust ; bake forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Prawns, Deviled, en Coquille.— Simmer a 
quart of prawns fifteen minutes in water flav- 
ored with a little sharp vinegar, drain and cut 
them very fine. Add two ounces of butter, a 
gill of water, salt and pepper, the yolks of two 
eggs and bread-crumbs to absorb the moisture. 
Mix to a paste. Partly fill the shells, cover 
with crumbs, add a small pat of butter to each 
and bake to a delicate brown. 

Prawns, Saut6, a la Marengo. — Wash one 
pint of " shelled" prawns, simmer them twenty 
minutes, drain and toss them a moment in a 
little hot olive oil ; remove them, add a sprig 
of parsley, half a dozen button mushrooms, a 
gill of hot water, salt and pepper, and thicken 
with a little flour. Put the ))rawns on a dish, 



SMALL PATTIES OF SCALLOPS. 1 9 

pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried 
eggs and sHces of tomatoes fried. 

Scalloped Oysters.— Put in the bottom of a 
yellow dish two ounces of sweet butter, divided 
into little pieces. Add a layer of raw oysters 
and cover them v/ith cracker- dust or bread 
crumbs and add salt and pepper to taste ; an- 
other layer of ovsters, and so on, until the dish 
is full, the last or top layer to be crumbs, and 
between each layer there should be a small 
amount of butter. Moisten the ingredients 
with a liberal quantity of oyster liquid, put 
small butter balls on top of the dish and bake 
a delicate brown color. Oysters were formerly 
baked in a scalloped or shell-shaped dish, hence 
the name. 

Small Patties of Scallops— Wash a pint of 
scallops, drain, cut them up, and scald them ; 
then put them in just milk enough to prevent 
burning. Add salt and white pepper, simmer 
until quite tender, and thicken with half a tea- 
spoonful of flour dissolved in cold water. Pour 
this mixture in small patty-shells (see recipe for 
Oyster Patties), and serve after the soup and 
before the fish, or as an entree. 

Soft-Shell Clams, Scalloped.— Purchase a 
dozen large soft clams in the shell and three 
dozen opened clams. Ask the dealer to open 
*he first dozen, care being used not to injure 



20 STEWED LOBSTER, A LA CREOLE. 

the shells, which are to be used in cooking the 
clams. Clean the shells well and put two soft 
clams on each half shell ; add to each a dash 
of white pepper and half a teaspoonful of 
minced celery. Cut a slice of fat bacon into 
the smallest dice, add four of these to each 
shell, strew over the top a thin layer of cracker 
dust ; place a pat of table butter on top, and 
bake in the oven until brown. Thev are de- 
lightful when properly prepared. 

Stewed Lobster, a la Creole.— Remove the 
tail part of the meat from three green lobsters ; 
split them in two lengthwise ; remove the 
thread-like intestine. Melt an ounce of butter 
in a deep frying-pan ; add the lobster ; toss it 
for a few minutes in the butter, add salt and 
pepper and half a pint of hot water ; cover and 
simmer three-quarters of an hour, drain and 
reduce the water one-half by rapid boiling. Put 
in a saucepan half an ounce of butter and a 
tablespoonful of minced onion ; fry brown and 
add three peeled and sliced tomatoes, one sweet 
pepper, four okra pods cut small, and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Allow these to cook fifteen 
minutes, add the broth, and simmer until re- 
duced to a pulp ; rub through a sieve, put this 
puree on a hot dish, place the lobster on toj), 
add a little lemon juice, and serve. 



STEWED TERRAPIN. 21 

Stewed Terrapin.— Of the numerous ways 
and styles of preparing terrapin I prefer this 
one. Select two six-and-a-half to seven-incli 
terrapins ; jj^^nge them in boiling water for 
five minutes ; take them out, and, when cool, 
rub off the skin found on the legs and neck ; 
remove the under-shell carefully ; next, re- 
move the liver, cut off the gall-bag from it 
and throw it away, for the bursting of the bag 
would spoil the whole dish. The other parts 
to be rejected are the claws, head, and sad-bag ; 
the remainder should be cut into neat-sized 
pieces. Put these in a stew-pan or chafing-dish 
and stew long enough to become tender — about 
one-half to three-quarters of an hour. Now 
put in a chafing-dish a pat of butter rolled in a 
little flour, a dash of cayenne, a gill of sherry, 
two drops of soy, and a saltspoonful of salt. 
When hot beat it with a fork, and add the ter- 
rapin, and eggs if there are any. The creamy 
sauce so universally met with consists of a com- 
bination of cream, butter, and eggs, which 
is verv nice for those who like that sort of 
thing. 

Vol-au-Vent of Shrimps and Oysters.— 
This term is applied to a delicate pie made of 
the lightest kind of puff-paste, which is cut in 
a round or oval form and baked. It rises a few 



22 VOL-AU-VENT OF SHRIMPS AND OYSTERS. 

inches in the process of baking and is afterward 
made into a case by scooping out the center, 
after which it is returned to the oven a few 
moments to dry the inside. The case thus 
formed is then filled with a nicely prepared 
mince, fricassee or compound to suit the taste. 
For that under consideration, sift one pound 
of flour, make a hole in the center and add 
two-thirds of a teaspoonful of salt ; mix gradu- 
ally with it a gill and a half of ice-water. Be- 
fore working to a paste add, in very small 
quantities at a time, a gill more of water. 
Dredge the rolling-pin and board with flour, and 
roll out the paste. Wash one pound of butter in 
ice-water to free it from salt, then squeeze out 
all moisture ; lay the butter on the paste, flatten 
it out gently, fold the paste over the butter 
and pat it evenly to form a square, roll it light- 
ly from you as far as the arms will reach, then 
fold over one-third and fold the other third 
over this, roll out again and so on six times, 
resting a few minutes between each turn. Fin- 
ally roll it out to an inch in thickness. Place a 
plate, or any other round or oval form of the 
size required, upon the paste and cut around it 
with a plain or fluted knife previously dipped 
in hot water. Turn the form over on a baking- 
tin ; brush over the top only with egg. Make 



CHICKEN BRAISE, WITH NEW CARROTS. 23 

an incision half an inch deep and within an 
inch of the edge all round the form. Put the 
form of paste in the oven, and bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour. When done remove the cover, 
which should have risen evenly, scoop out the 
soft paste in the center, and brush egg over the 
inside walls and return it to the oven a few 
minutes longer, when it will be ready to receive 
the follov/ing : 

Beat three ounces of floured butter to a cream 
over a moderate fire. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with half a pint of cream, add salt and 
pepper, whisk it into the butter, add the juice 
of half a lemon and set it aside to keep warm. 
Scald twenty-five oysters a moment and drain 
them. Take a one-pound can of shrimps, scald 
and drain them. Arrange them alternately in 
the prepared vol-au-vent case, pour the sauce 
over them, and serve. 



ENTREES OF POULTRY AND GAME. 

Chicken Brais6, with New Carrots. — Di- 
vide the chicken at the joints, remove the skin 
and refuse. Mince a small onion quite fine 



24 CHICKEN CIJRRV. 

and fry it brown ; add a gill of gravy and then 
add the chicken ; toss it about in this a few 
moments and add a slice of ham or strip of ba- 
con, six young carrots, salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of powdered herbs ; cover and simmer an hour 
and a half ; remove the chicken, add half a 
pint of rich gravy or stock to the dish and a 
slice of lemon ; simmer half an hour, straiii, 
thicken, and pour over the chicken. Arrange a 
border of whole young carrots, boiled, around 
the dish, and serve. 

Chicken Curry.— Fine-grained poultry do 
not make good curry, as the curry powder is 
unable to permeate the centre of the flesh. A 
coarse-grained bird will be found the best for 
this purpose. Boil the chicken in the usual 
manner, saving the broth. When cold cut it 
neatly, and rub the curry powder into the meat. 
Cut up one large sour apple and half an onion, 
fry these in butter ; add the meat, toss it about 
a moment, and add half a pint of the chicken 
broth and a tablespoonful of chutney, simmer 
until thoroughly amalgamated and serve with 
rice or shredded maize. A little sugar is an 
improvement and may thicken the sauce, but I 
like it without flour. 

Chicken Fricassee, with Mushrooms.— 
Take a dry-picked chicken, separate ^he joints, 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE, WITH PEAS. 25 

cut each joint into pieces, remove the skin. 
Put the pieces into a saucepan with one onion, 
salt and pepper, and a few soup herbs, and water 
enough to cover them ; simmer gently three- 
quarters of an hour, remove scum as it arises ; 
when the chicken is quite tender remove it, 
strain the liquid. Put into a saucepan an 
ounce of butter, heat it, and whisk it thoroughly; 
thicken a cupful of the broth with a teaspoonful 
of flour, add it to the butter; do not let it boil, 
whisk it well, add gradually half the quantity 
of broth, draw the pan from the fire. Beat up 
the yolks of two eggs with a little cream, and 
add it to the remaining warm broth. Now add 
this to the sauce containing the butter, let stand 
a moment on back of range while you cut up a 
dozen button mushrooms, add these to the 
sauce, now add the chicken, and, when all is 
quite warm, serve. 

Chicken Fricassee, with Peas.— Select a 
dry-picked young fowl ; cut into joints, remove 
the skin, rinse in warm water, dip into cold 
water, drain, and dredge with flour. Put them 
in a warm saucepan and cover with hot water ; 
add salt and pepper, a sprig of parsley, and a 
piece of lemon peel, simmer two hours and re- 
move the chicken. Beat up the yolk of one egg 
with a gill of cream, add it to the warm sauce. 



26 CHICKEN HASH. 

and whisk thoroughly. Arrange the chicken on 
a dish, pour the sauce over it, add as a border 
a quantity of hot, fresh or canned peas, and 
serve. 

Chicken Hash on Rice Toast.— This is an 
excellent wa}- for using the remains of poultry. 
Trim the meat from the bones, remove the skin, 
and cut the meat fine, put in a pan ; add a little 
water to moisten it, add salt and white pepper. 
When the water is evaporated, arrange the 
chicken neatly on rice toast, and if desired a 
poached egg may be placed on top. Prepare 
the rice as follows : Boil the rice the night be- 
fore, pour it into a yellow dish and place it in 
the ice-box with a weight upon it. The next 
morning cut it in half-inch slices, brush a little 
butter over them ; place the slices between the 
double broiler and toast to a delicate brown ; 
pour a little melted butter over them, add salt 
and pepper and the juice of an orange. 

Chicken Patties.— Roll out a pound of light 
l)uff-paste, half an inch in thickness ; cut it in- 
to rounds with a cake-cutter two inches in 
diameter ; press a small cutter, one inch in 
diameter, on each round, one-fourth of an inch 
deep. Place them on a buttered tin, brush a 
little beaten egg over them, and bake in a quick 
oven. When done remove the centre and a 



CHICKEN, SAUT]£, ETC. 27 

little of the inside. Cut up the white meat of 
a cold chicken into neat small pieces. Put into 
a saucepan half a pint each of clear chicken 
broth and cream, one ounce of butter in small 
pieces that have been rolled in flour, salt and 
pepper, and a very little nutmeg. Place the 
saucepan on the range where it will simmer 
nearly to boiling point ; then remove and let it 
cool a few minutes ; beat up the yolks of two 
eggs with a half-teaspoonful of flour moistened 
with cold milk ; add to the saucepan, and place 
near the fire until it thickens, then add the 
chicken ; heat it through ; fill the patty-shells 
neatly with the mixture, and serve. 

Chicken, Saut6, Sauce Bordelaise.— Singe, 
draw, and disjoint a medium-sized chicken; put 
into a large frying-pan an ounce of butter, add 
the chicken, toss the pieces about and turn them 
so they will cook evenly ; add salt and pepper; 
allow twenty-five minutes for cooking, then ar- 
range neatly on a hot dish, and serve with a 
sauce Bordelaise. {See page t^2.) 

Curry of Venison. — Cold roast venison 
makes a very good breakfast curry, as the meat 
is invariably tender and very digestible. Put in 
a frying-pan, in a teaspoonful of butter, half a 
teaspoonful of dry flour and brown slightly. 
Add a clove of garlic and a tablespoonful of 



25 DUCKLING POT ROAST. 

minced apple, half a teaspoonful of curry pow- 
der, and half a pint of hot water, soup-stock, or 
venison gravy from the roast of the day before. 
Simmer and set on the back of the range. Cut 
the meat in neat pieces, add it to the sauce, and 
when quite hot send to table. Before serving 
add the juice of an orange. 

Duckling Pot Roast.— This is a ver\- good 
way to cook this very acceptable bird. Put in- 
to a shalloAv crock a thin strip of bacon and a 
tablespoonful of mixed whole spice. Clean and 
truss two ducklings, put them in a crock, and 
add hot water or soup-stock enough to come up 
half-way on the birds. Then add a sprig of 
celery and two of parsley ; place a narrow strip 
of bacon over each bird ; cover close and set 
the crock in a moderate oven, where the birds 
will cook slowly two hours. Remove the duck- 
lings, strain the sauce, and reduce it one-third 
by boiling ; add a gill of dark wine ; thicken 
with a dash of brown flour ; simmer fifteen 
minutes ; add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and 
serve with the duck. A small quantity of the 
sauce may be boiled down until thick as cream — 
this is called glaze — it is brushed over the bird 
before serving. 

Fried Chicken, Cream Sauce.— Select a 
spring chicken, clean it nicely, and divide it in- 



GOSLINGS A LA CHASSEUR. 2g 

to four pieces. Put two ounces of butter in a 
frying-pan, and when hot add the chicken, 
which should have been seasoned with salt and 
pepper, and rolled in, or rather dredged with, 
flour. Fry the chicken to a golden brown; ar- 
range the pieces neatly on a dish, pour the fol- 
lowing sauce round them, and serve : Dissolve 
a tablespoonful of flour in a gill of cold milk, 
and add to it half a pint of lukewarm milk. 
Slightly melt an ounce of butter ; add a little 
salt and pepper ; whisk the milk into the butter, 
and when thick serve with the chicken. 

Goslings a la Chasseur.— Singe the bird 
clean, and quarter it. Let it stand in a bath, 
or marinade, of wine and spices four hours, 
drain, melt a little butter in a pan, and when 
very hot toss the pieces in it until partly cooked. 
Add half a pint of hot water, or, if possible, 
clear soup ; cover and simmer an hour ; add a 
few spoonfuls of the marinade and a teaspoon- 
ful of onion vinegar ; remove the bird, skin off 
all fat, add a little sherry to the sauce — say 
about half a gill — thicken the sauce with half a 
teaspoonful of browned flavor, pour it over the 
bird, and serve. 

Minced Turkey with Poached Egg.— A 
very appetizing dish is made of cold boiled or 
roast turkey. Trim off all skin and most of the 



30 RABBIT CURRY. 

fat, especially that on the back ; pick out the 
little tidbits in the recesses. Cut off all that 
will not look neat when sliced cold. Season 
with salt and pepper and a tablespoonful or two 
of minced celery, chop up the meat, put it in a 
pan with a little butter or turkey fat, to prevent 
burning, and just a suspicion of onion. Moisten 
with a little broth made from the turkey bones. 
Poach one or two eggs for each person ; arrange 
the minced meat neatly on slices of buttered 
toast, place the egg on top, and ser\e. The 
aboAe mode of preparing a breakfast-dish is not 
onh- economical, but produces one of the most 
delightful dishes that can be made. Almost 
anv kind of boiled or roast meats and poultry 
or game can be utilized in this way. 

Rabbit Gurry.— Select two fine rabbits, cut 
them into neat pieces, put in an earthen crock 
a thin slice of bacon, add a few pieces of rabbit, 
sprinkle over it a little curry powder, salt, fresh 
grated cocoanut, and a dozen raisins ; ])ut in 
another laver of ral)bit, and season it as the 
first laver ; repeat until the rabbit is all used, 
and you have also used the juice and meat of 
one fresh or half a pound of dry cocoanut. 
Moisten the whole with a mild Catawba or 
Rhine wine, let this stand twenty-four hours, 
then place the crock in a i)Ot of water and let it 



REED BIRDS A LA CLEMENT. 31 

simmer two hours, keeping it well covered. 
When done serve it on a flat dish, and serve rice 
separately. 

Reed Birds a la Clement.— Mr. H. G. Cle- 
ment, a Philadelphia epicure of no mean repute, 
prepares reed birds as follows : Remove heads 
and entrails, and clean the birds nicely, and put 
a large oyster inside each bird. Select a few 
good-sized sweet or Irish potatoes ; cut them in 
two crosswise, dig out part of the insides, and 
put a bird between the two pieces of each po- 
tato ; press together, tie them firmly, and bake 
thirty minutes. When done, remove the string 
and re-tie them with neat, narrow, white ribbon 
or tape. 

Salmi of Venison, Port Wine Sauce.— 
Put in a frying-pan a tablespoonful of butter and 
a teaspoonful of dry flour ; when brown add a 
gill of hot water, a clove of garlic, a saltspoonful 
of salt, a dash of cayenne and enough ground 
nutmeg to be perceptible to the taste when the 
sauce is completed. Simmer five minutes and 
add half a pint of port A\-ine. Strain the sauce 
and keep it warm. If cold roast venison is to 
be used, cut it up and add it to the sauce ; if 
raw venison is to be used, cut it in neat pieces, 
fry them slightly, then let them simmer in a 
little stock for half an hour, drain and add to 



32 SAUCK BOKDELAISK. 

the sauce. The liquid may be used to form the 
basis of the sauce if desired. Before serving, 
squeeze over the dish the juice of an orange. 

Sauce Bordelaise. — Put a tablespoonful of 
chopped white onions into a hot saucepan with 
a little butter, white pepper and salt, and half 
a pint of white wine ; reduce it, by boiling, to a 
quarter of a pint, then add nearly a pint of 
sauce Espagnole, or dark, thick beef gravy; boil 
a few moments, add a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and half a tablespoonful of chopped 
capers ; mix together, and serve. 

Spring Chicken, Hungarian Style.— Dis- 
joint a four pound chicken ; put it in a stew-pan 
with a quart of lukewarm water, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of paprika, a 
blade of mace, and half a teaspoonful of wet 
flour ; simmer slowly two hours and a half. 
Paprika Hungarian red pepper made from the 
sweet pepper, it is very mild and pleasant to 
the taste and is highly recommended for dyspep- 
tics or those troubled with a torpid liver. It 
may be procured from wholesale spice dealers 
and first-class Hungarian restaurants. 

Squabs, Saute, a la Marengo.— Split the 
squabs in two and fry them in a little olive 
oil ; when a good color and nearly done, add a 
si)rig ox two of parsley, a pepperspoonful of 



SQUIRREL POT-PIE, ETC. 33 

pepper and six button mushrooms, sliced ; re- 
move the squabs, add a gill of gravy or soup, 
thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, and pour it 
around the squabs, garnish with eggs fried on 
both sides, and serve. 

[Marengo, (Italy), was where the French 
army, commanded by Bonaparte, attacked the 
Austrians, June 14th, 1800. His army was 
retreating, when the arrival of General Desaix 
turned the fortunes of the day. By a treaty 
between the Austrian General, Melas, and Bona- 
parte, signed June 15th, the latter obtained 
twelve strong fortresses, and became master of 
Italy. An impromptu dish prepared after the 
battle, and improved upon by Bonaparte's cook 
upon his return to Paris, was baptized ''a la 
Marengo."] 

Squirrel Pot-pie, Hunters' style.— Skin 
each squirrel by cutting a slit down the inside 
of the hind legs first ; loosen the skin down to 
the tail from the hind quarters, and cut off the 
tail from the body, but not from the skin. Now 
take a firm hold of the body with the left hand 
and draw the skin over the head with the right. 
Cut the skin free from the nose, and while it is 
fresh draw it over a wedge-shaped shingle to 
dry. Remove the heads and entrails, and wash 
the squirrels in cold water ; drain and quarter 



34 SOniiRKL POT- PI R, ETC. 

them. Put into an eartlien crock two large 
strips of bacon ; add four squirrels quartered. 
Put in with them half a bay-leaf, a dozen whole 
pepper-corns bruised, six bruised juniper-ber- 
ries, two cloves of garlic — or, if they are not at 
hand, a sliced onion will answer — half a pint of 
wine vinegar, or a pint of ordinary claret or 
Rhine wine. Add just water enough to cover 
the meat, and let all stand forty-eight hours. 
Cover the crock and put it in a saucepan of 
warai water, and simmer two hours. Then add 
a liberal number of dumplings, and, if there is 
not liquid enough, add a little more hot water 
to the dish. Simmer half an hour longer, 
finally add the juice of an orange, and serve. 

A squirrel pie is made by preparing the meat 
in a marinade as above, then par-boiling the 
whole half an hour and afterwards placing it 
in an earthen dish with dumplings. A top cru .t 
is then added, and the dish is baked in a mod- 
erate oven. A pie made of squirrels and oysters 
is a very appetizing dish. 

[I have mentioned such seasoning as naturally 
harmonizes with the peculiar flavor of squirrel, 
but individual tastes should be considered when 
preparing this dish. One of the pleasant culin- 
ary recollections of last season was " stewed 



SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES, ETC. 35 

squirrel, Hungarian style " — /. ^., prepared with 
the condiment known as Paprika, which is a 
variety of pepper made from the sweet Spanish 
pepper. A disputed point in the cooking of 
squirrel is whether or no the head should be 
used. Our opinion is that it should not be 
served when there are ladies at table, as it does 
not present an appetizing appearance. " Stag 
parties " prefer it] 



ENTREES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbread Croquettes with Peas.— Boil 

four sweetbreads, chop them very fine and 
pound them to a paste, season with salt and 
pepper and add the yolks of two eggs, two 
ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of cracker 
crumbs ; moisten with a gill of cream, roll into 
balls or cork-shape forms, dip these in beaten 
egg ; roll in crumbs ; repeat the last process and 
fry in boiling fat. Arrange a border of green 
peas around them, and serve. 



36 SWEETBREADS A LA MII.AXAISE. 

Sweetbreads a la Miianaise.— Clean and 
par-boil the sweetbreads, then cut them in slices, 
dip them in melted butter, roll them in grated 
Parmesan cheese, then dip them in beaten egg, 
roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Serve 
with tomato sauce, and garnish with slices ot 
lemon. 

Sweetbreads a la Perigord.— Select four 
fine sweetbreads, prepare them (as per recipe 
for Sweetbreads, Larded), and lard them if 
desirable ; strain the sauce, add to it a gill of 
sauce Espagnole or dark rich gravy, a glass of 
wine, a can of mushrooms and four large truffles 
sliced. Simmer the sauce, taste for season- 
ing, put the sweetbreads on a hot dish, sur- 
round them with the sauce, and serve. 

Sweetbreads, Braise, with Sorrel.— Wash 
four sweetbreads thoroughly, par-boil, and 
when cool, remove all skin, sinews, and 
ragged edges. Put into a braising pan a slice 
of fat bacon, a gill of gravy, a little fresh herbs, 
salt and pepper, and very little onion ; add the 
four sweetbreads ( which may be larded or 
not). Cover the pan and simmer an hour; 
add a gill of clear soup, and simmer half an 
hour ; remove the sweetbreads, strain the gravy 
and simmer it until quite thick ; put the sweet- 



SWEETBREADS EN BROCHETTE. 37 

breads on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them 
and surround them with a puree of sorrel. 

Sweetbreads en Brochette.— A very good 
way of serving this most excellent dainty. Small 
sweetbreads are just as good as the larger ones, 
and being ver^- much cheaper are recommended 
for made dishes. Before using them, always 
par-boil them in hot water a few moments, skin 
and trim them neatly. Then they are ready 
for cooking. To cook them " en brochette," 
cut them in neat slices, which arrange alternate- 
ly with bacon on a wooden or metal skewer, 
brush a little butter over them, broil, and serve 
on toast. 

Sweetbreads, Larded, with Peas.— Select 
six sweetbreads of equal size, wash them well, 
and par-boil them in water slightly salted ; trim 
off all the ragged edges, remove the skin and 
sinews and put them on ice until wanted. Take 
half a pound of clear, larding pork and cut it 
into strips three inches long and an eighth of 
an inch square, insert one at a time, in the lard- 
ing needle ; firmly press the needle together to 
hold the strip of pork, and insert the needle in 
the upper part of each sweetbread, say a quar- 
ter of an inch deep, force it through and let it 
protrude on the opposite side of the surface, 
within a quarter of an inch of the edge ; draw 



38 SWEETBREADS, MACl^DOINE. 

the Strip of pork through, so as to have nearly 
half an inch of each end of it sticking out. 
Proceed in this manner until the surface has 
two even rows of ends. Put the sweetbreads in 
a pan, add a pint of well-seasoned soup-stock 
or gravy, add salt, six whole pepper-corns, a 
sprig of parsley and soup celery, and a bit of 
whole mace. Cover, and simmer an hour and a 
half, remove the sweetbreads, strain the sauce 
and boil it down one-half ; if not thick, add a 
little browned flour and a tablespoonful of 
sherry. Brush part of the thick sauce over the 
sweetbreads and set them in the oven a moment 
to brown, then put them on a hot dish, sur- 
rounded with green peas, and serve the remain- 
der of the sauce in a boat. Should there not 
be sauce enough, thin it out with stock or gravy. 
Sweetbreads, Mac^doine.— Wash, scald, or 
par-boil two sweetbreads ; trim and skin them; 
cover with boiling water, slightly salted ; add 
half a teaspoonful of mixed spices and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar ; simmer three-quarters of 
an hour, and drain. Put them on a hot dish, 
brush a little beef extract or reduced beef or 
veal soup over them ; arrange a border of mace- 
doine round them, and serve. Macedoine, or 
prepared mixed vegetables, may be had at the 
grocer's, is more satisfactory than if prepared 



ARTICHOKES, STUFFED. 39 

at home, and is all ready to serve after heat- 
ing a moment. 



ENTREES OF VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes, Stuffed.— Trim and wash four 
artichokes ; remove the " choke" found in the 
center ; make a stuffing of bread-crumbs nicely 
seasoned with a preparation made as follows : 
Mince half a pound of ham, warm it, and add 
a dozen canned mushrooms chopped fine, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parslev, a few blades of 
chives, salt, and pepper. Add the crumbs, and 
moisten with clear soup or hot water ; work all 
to a paste, and fill the artichokes with it. Tie 
each artichoke neatly ; put them in a pan with 
a little butter, to prevent burning, and a pint of 
clear soup ; cover the pan, and let them steam 
in their own vapors until tender. 

The artichoke has been used as a vegetable 
over 300 years. The flower-heads in their im- 
mature state contain the thick, flushy part called 
artichoke bottoms, which is the part most highly 



40 HAKED TOMATOES. 

prized ; tlie lower parts of the thick, imbricated 
scales are also eaten. 

The blue flower of the artichoke, either fresh 
or dried, turns milk into an excellent curd for 
cheese. 

Baked Tomatoes.— Cut a thin slice off the 
top of each of four medium-sized tomatoes, 
sprinkle over them a little salt, cayenne, and 
very little cracker-crumbs. Add a small square 
of butter and bake a delicate brown on top. 
Tomatoes prepared in this way are very nice for 
those who dislike the trouble of preparing 
stuffed tomatoes. 

Cauliflower, au Parmesan.— Boil a head of 
cauliflower, in water slightly salted, fifteen min- 
utes ; while boiling put an ounce of butter, a 
tablespoonful of flour, and a pint of water into 
a saucepan ; whisk, and simmer ten minutes ; 
add half an ounce grated Parmesan cheese, and 
boil a little longer ; cut the cauliflower into neat 
pieces, put them in a deep dish, add salt and 
pepper, and the sauce ; sprinkle over it a thick 
layer of Parmesan cheese, and finally add a pat 
of butter ; bake in a quick oven, and send to 
table in tlie same dish in which it was cooked. 

Cauliflower, Tomato Sauce.— Trim a head 
of cauliflower neatly, and let it stand in salted 
water head downwards three-quarters of an 



CELERY, BRAISE, ETC. 4I 

hour. Then put it in slightly salted fast boil- 
ing water and boil just long enough for it to be 
cooked, but not mushy when pressed between 
the fingers. Test it with a long needle. After 
twelve minutes' boiling remove the scum that 
arises or it will discolor the cauliflower. Let it 
drain a moment. Put in the centre of a dish a 
liberal quantity of well made hot tomato sauce 
(which see, page 70 ), add the cauliflower, and 
serve as a separate course. 

Celery, Braise, with Gravy. — Take six 
heads of table celery, trim off the green tops, 
and cut off most of the root end ; simmer in 
hot water five minutes ; put them in a stew-pan 
with enough thick, brown gravy to cover them; 
add a tablespoonful of sherry, simmer ten min- 
utes, and serve. 

Celery Croquettes.— Mince the white part 
of the celery and mix well with an equal quan- 
tity of bread-crumbs ; to a quart of the mixture 
add the yolk of two eggs, a heaping saltspoon- 
ful of salt, and a pinch of cayenne ; moisten 
with a little milk if the moisture from the celery 
is not sufficient. Shape in cones, dip in egg 
and crumbs, and fry in a liberal quantit\' of fat. 

Field Mushrooms on Toast.— In the autumn 
the field mushrooms may be had in profusion 
and at low prices. Care should be exercised in 



42 KOHL-RADI, A LA CREME. 

selecting them. Reject very large ones, especi- 
ally if the under gills be a dead black and have 
traces of decay, or are worm-eaten. The 
small, fresh-looking ones with pink ribs are the 
ones to eat and enjoy. Peel the tops carefully; 
melt an ounce of butter in the frying-pan and 
fry in it half a pound of raw minced steak ; 
add two saltspoonfuls of salt, a pinch of 
cayenne, and a gill of hot water ; fry until the 
juices are extracted from the meat ; tilt the pan 
and squeeze the meat with the back of the 
spoon until there is nothing left but dry meat, 
then remove it ; add the mushrooms to the 
liquid, and if there is not enough of it add 
more butter ; toss them about for a moment, 
and pour out on hot toast. 

Kohl-Rabi, a la Creme.— This excellent veg- 
etable is seldom seen on the tables of Amer- 
icans, as they know but little of its superb qual- 
ities. In taste it much resembles the cauli- 
flower. The name is German, and is derived 
from kohl^ meaning cabbage, and riibe^ meaning 
rape. The stem just above the surface of the 
ground swells into a round, fleshy bulb, in form 
not unlike the turnip. F^el them as turnips, 
quarter them and then cut them in thin slices, 
boil in water slightly salted. Dissolve an ounce 
of butter, add to it a little flour, salt, nutmeg, 



MACARONI, AU GRATIN. 43 

and white pepper to taste. Beat the yolk of 
one egg, add to it half a pint of milk, and 
whisk it into the butter ; when thick add the 
\egetable, and serve. The leaves when tender 
are boiled and served as spinach. 

Macaroni, au gratin.— Break the long stems 
in two and cover them with water slightly 
salted, simmer fifteen minutes, drain and put 
the macaroni in au gratin tins. Add a little 
milk, salt and pepper, and a walnut of butter to 
each ; then cover with grated Parmesan cheese 
and bake to a delicate brown. 

New Onions, au gratin.— Select onions of 
uniform size, peel and cut a slice from the top 
of each. Remove part of the centre of each 
and chop it fine. Mince half a pound of ham ; 
soak three ounces of bread-crumbs, squeeze out 
the water from them and add the yolks of two 
eggs. Mix all together and season with salt 
and pepper and very little mace. Stuff the 
onions with this ; cover the top of the onions 
with grated cheese and bake brown. 

Okra, Stuflfed.— Select a dozen good-sized 
but tender okra pods, cut off the pointed ends, 
and remove the seeds. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs, season with salt and white pepper, add a 
tablespoonful of chopped boiled ham, and 
bread-crumbs enough to thicken the egg. x\dd 



44 OYSTER-PLANT, AU GRATIN. 

the seeds also. Fill the pods with this mix- 
ture, stand them upright in a pan ; add a little 
water or gravy ; cover the tops with a layer of 
bread-crumbs and add a layer of grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Divide two ounces of butter in 
little balls, place them on top and bake to a 
delicate brown. 

Oyster-Plant, au gratin.— Take six stalks 
of oyster-plant, scrape them and dip them in 
half vinegar and water as fast as scraped. Cut 
them in quarters lengthwise, then in inch strips; 
wash them and boil one hour in slightly salted 
water. Boil half a pint of milk, add a tea- 
spoonful of dissolved flour to it ; add the vege- 
table, and put in a small baking-tin ; season 
with salt and pepper ; strew over the dish a 
layer of bread-crumbs ; add a little butter and 
bake to a delicate brown. 

Peppers, Stuffed.— Take six green Spanish 
peppers, cut off the tops, remove the seeds, and 
make a force-meat of equal parts of minced 
chicken or veal and soaked bread-crumbs, well 
seasoned, and bound together with the yolks of 
two eggs ; fill the peppers with this ; add a 
little cracker-dust on top, and a small piece of 
butter to each ; bake twenty minutes. 

Potato Croquettes. — Boil six potatoes ; 
when done peel and mash them ; add two 



RICE CROQUETTES. 



45 



ounces of butter, a gill of milk, salt, pepper 
and the yolks of two raw eggs. Dredge a 
bread-board with flour, roll the potato into very 
small cork-like shapes ; cut these of equal 
length, dip them in egg and crumbs and fry to 
a delicate brown. 

Rice Croquettes.— Thoroughly wash half a 
pint of rice ; boil it in a pint of milk thirty 
minutes ; whip into the hot rice two ounces of 
butter, two ounces of sugar, salt, and the yolks 
of two eggs. If the batter is too stiff add a 
little more milk. When cold roll it into neat 
balls, corks or cones, dip them in beaten egg, 
roll in fine bread- or cracker-crumbs, and fry as 
you would doughnuts. 

Stuffed Tomatoes.— Select six medium-sized 
tomatoes. Cut a slice from the stem end of 
each, and scoop out the soft pulp. Mince one 
small onion, and fry it slightly ; add a gill of 
hot water, the tomato pulp, and two ounces of 
cold veal or chicken chopped fine ; simmer and 
season with salt and pepper. Stir into the pan 
cracker-dust enough to absorb the moisture ; 
stuff the tomatoes with this mass, sprinkle dry 
crumbs over the top ; add a small piece of but- 
ter, and bake until slightly browned on top. 



46 CODFISH-TONGUES. 



ENTREES OF FISH. 

Codfish - Tongues. — Wash four codfish- 
tongues thoroughly in cold water ; put them on 
the range in hot water slightly salted, and boil 
thirty minutes ; drain ; arrange neatly on a 
folded napkin placed upon a hot dish ; garnish 
with parsley and slices of lemon, and send to 
table with a white sauce. Fried like oysters 
and served with sauce tar tare they are very 
good. (See sauce tar tare, page 52.) 

Curry of Eels, with Rice.— Cut into two- 
inch pieces one medium-sized eel or two small 
ones ; put them in a saucepan and cover with 
boiling water ; add a little salt, a piece of lemon 
peel and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; boil slow- 
ly one hour, and drain. Cut up a small onion, 
and frv it brown in a little butter ; add a pint 
of the water in which the fish was boiled and 
a teaspoonful of walnut catsup. Mix together 
a teaspoonful of flour with a gill of cold water, 
rub it smooth, and add a teaspoonful of dry 
curry powder. Mix and add it to the pan, 
strain and return to the pan ; then add the eels; 
simmer fifteen minutes, and serve surrounded 
bv a border of boiled rice. 



EELS EN MATELOTTE, ETC. 4 

Eels en Matelotte, au gratin.— Cut two 
pounds of eels into three-inch pieces, and rub 
the inside with a little salt. Cut one medium- 
sized onion into small pieces, and fry them in 
a little melted butter ; when brown, add half 
a pint of broth or v/ater, one bay-leaf, four 
cloves, six broken pepper-corns, and a gill of 
claret. Add the eels to this, cover, and simmer 
three-quarters of an hour. Pour the contents 
of the pan into a shallow baking-tin, cover them 
with cracker-crumbs, add a pat of butter to the 
crumbs, and bake to a light brown. 

Fillet of Blueflsh, au gratin.— Select a 
small bluefish, split it in two lengthwise, remove 
the bone, and cut the fish free from the skin ; 
cut the flesh in strips ; spread a layer of nicely 
seasoned stuffing on each long strip, and roll 
them. Cover the bottom of a tin with the 
stuffing, add the fillets of fish, and fill all the 
spaces between with stuffing. Strew over the 
top of the dish a layer of bread-crumbs, mois- 
tened with melted butter, and bake to a deli- 
cate brown. The stuffing may be made of a 
mixture of minced meat and grated bread nice- 
ly seasoned, or bread-crumbs and minced clams 
or oysters. 

Fillet of Pompano, Cream Sauce.— Cut 
the fish in two lengthwise, remove the lx)ne and 



48 FILLET OF SALINION TROUT. 

cut the flesh free from the skin; then cut the fish 
into strips. Rub a little butter, pepper and salt 
over them, roll and tie them up, put them in a 
saucepan, add very little water and such spices 
as are liked. Cover the dish, and allow it to 
simmer an hour. Take the fish out of the 
liquid and strain the latter, thicken it with milk 
containing a little flour, pour it over the fish, 
squeeze a little lemon juice on top, and serve. 

Fillet of Salmon Trout.— Select a medium- 
sized fish ; split it in two lengthwise ; lay the 
pieces skin side down, and cut the fish away 
from the skin ; then cut it in pieces two inches 
wide crosswise. Lay these in a pan, add water 
or gravy to prevent burning ; season with salt, 
pepper, and an ounce of butter to the pound of 
dressed fish, and bake. When done, put on a 
hot dish. Make a sauce of the contents of the 
pan, add a little Rhine wine to it, and pour over 
the fish. 

Fillet of Sole, Sauce Tartare.— The true 
English sole is seldom used in America, except 
on extra occasions, when it is imported from 
England. We use the common flounder as a 
substitute. Remove the head, fins, tail, and 
skin from a medium-sized flounder ; lay the 
fish flat on the table, and with a sharp knife 
make a deep cut through to the backbone the 



FRESH STURGEON STEAK MARINADE. 4q 

whole length of the fish, cut the upper side 
lengthwise from the bone, now remove the bone 
from the lower part, and cut the fish into pieces 
crosswise, each piece to be about two inches in 
width ; season each piece, roll it up and tie it 
with strong thread, dredge them in flour and 
fry in plenty of hot fat (they may be dipped in 
egg batter and rolled in bread-crumbs if liked) ; 
remove the thread, arrange them neatly on a 
hot dish, garnish with parsley, and send to ta- 
ble with sauce tartare (which see). 

Fresh Sturgeon Steak Marinade.— Take 
one slice of sturgeon two inches thick ; let it 
stand in hot water five minutes ; drain ; put it 
in a bowl and add a gill of vinegar, half a gill 
of olive oil, half a teaspoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonful of black pepper, and the juice of half 
a lemon ; let it stand six hours, turning it oc- 
casionally ; drain and dry on a napkin ; dip it 
in egg ; roll in bread-crumbs, and fry, or rather 
boil, in very hot fat. Beat up the yolks of two 
raw eggs, add a teaspoonful of French mustard, 
and, by degrees, half of the marinade, to make 
a smooth sauce, which serve with the fish. 

Frogs' Legs a la Poulette.— Wash three 
pairs of ''saddles"; drain and scald them; 
simmer an hour in boiled milk. Put into a 
saucepan two ounces of butter ; when it begins 



50 FROf.S LEGS A LA SKCRET. 

to melt whisk it, and add the juice of a lemon. 
Beat up the yolks of two eggs with two gills 
of cream containing a teaspoon ful of flour 
rubbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently in- 
to the warm butter ; keep it quite warm until 
it thickens, but do not boil, or it will curdle. 
Drain the frogs from the milk, pour the sauce 
over them, strew a little chopped parsley on 
top, and serve. 

Progs' Legs §L la Secret.— Wash one pound 
of frogs' legs in cold water slightly salted ; par- 
boil them in boiling water and finish cooking 
them in boiling milk. Beat two ounces of but- 
ter in a saucepan over the lire, add half a tea- 
spoonful of dry flour and a gill of the milk in 
which the frogs were boiled. Beat the yolks of 
two eggs with half awineglassfulof sherry, salt, 
and pepper. Move the saucepan to the back of 
the range, and when its contents are somewhat 
cooled whisk in the egg. Keep it warm, but 
do not let it boil, and add the frogs ; then turn 
out on a hot dish, and serve. 

Progs' Legs, Pried, Sauce Tartaro.— Select 
three large '* saddles" ; wash them and cover 
them with boiling water for five minutes ; drain 
and dry them in a napkin. Beat the yolks of 
two eggs, add a saltspoonful of salt, a })inch of 
cayenne, three tablespoonfuls of oil, and a dash 



ROYAXS A LA VATEL. 5 1 

of anchovy essence ; beat well and add a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice ; dip the frogs in this, 
roll them in grated bread-crumbs, shake off all 
surplus crumbs, dip them again in the egg, and 
again roll in the crumbs. Have ready a liberal 
quantity of hot fat, drop the frogs in it, and fry 
them a dark brown, and serve, neatly garnished 
with parsley and slices of lemon. Serve the 
sauce in a sauce-boat. (See sauce tartare.) 

Koyans a la Vatel.— Royans are of the sar- 
dine order, and are more of a lunch relish than 
an entree. They may be procured from the 
leading grocers. Open the can carefully with- 
out breaking the fish, turn the contents of the 
can on a dish, scrape off the skin, arrange them 
on slices of toast, add the bits of truffles and 
artichokes found in the tin, and serve with 
quarters of lemon. 

They may be cut into very fine pieces and 
spread on toast, with a little lemon juice 
squeezed over them. 

\A la Vatel refers to Vatel, the celebrated 
chef to the Prince de Conde. Vatel, driven to 
despair by the non-arrival of a quantity of fish 
necessary for a fish dinner to be given to Louis 
XIV., committed suicide.] 

Salmon Croquettes. — Take a one-pound can 
of salmon, open it neatly, take out the fish and 



52 SAUCE TARTARE. 

mince it fine ; add salt and pepper and a tabie^ 
spoonful of chopped parsley or celery tops ; 
moisten it with very little water, add a raw 
egg and a little walnut ketchup, mix thorough- 
ly, put it in a small saucepan, and place the 
saucepan in another containing hot water. 
When quite hot, turn it out upon a dish to be- 
come cold ; then roll it into cones, dip these 
in beaten egg seasoned with salt and pepper, 
roll them in bread-crumbs, drop them into 
boiling fat, and fry a delicate brown ; drain 
them a moment, arrange neatly on a hot dish, 
and serve with or without sauce. 

Sauce Tartare.— Take half a pint of mayon- 
naise, and add to it a tablespoonful of chopped 
salad herbs, mince a quarter of an onion with a 
few chopped capers and a teaspoonful of made 
mustard ; mix all together, and serve. 

Shad Koe a la Poulette.— Cover a pair of 
roes with water slightly salted ; add a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and a slice of lemon ; sim- 
mer thirty minutes and drain ; put into a sauce- 
pan an ounce of butter ; when it begins to melt 
whisk it and add the juice of half a lemon. 

Beat up the yolk of one egg with a gill of 
cream containing half a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently into 
the warm butter ; keep it quite warm until it 



SMELTS WITH TOMATOES, ETC. 53 

thickens, but do not boil, or it will curdle. 
Pour it over the shad roes, strew over the top a 
trifle of chopped parsley, and serve. 

Smelts with Tomatoes, au gratin. — 
Thoroughly clean six medium-sized smelts, dry 
them on a towel. Put into a quart baking- 
tin a layer of grated bread-crumbs, on top of 
which add a layer of sliced tomatoes (free from 
skins) ; cover with a light layer of crumbs and 
season with salt, pepper, and a pat of butter. 
Now add the fish whole, and strew over them 
a top layer of crumbs, add salt, pepper, and a 
liberal allowance of butter ; pour in on one side 
a small quantity of oyster broth to prevent 
burning on the bottom, and also to flavor the 
whole dish ; bake twenty minutes. 

Stewed Eels, German Style.— Select two 
good-sized, properly cleaned eels ; cut them into 
three-inch pieces ; cover with cold water, slight- 
ly salted, for one hour. Put into a saucepan two 
ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of flour, 
and stir it around until slightly colored ; add 
gradually a pint of cold water, a clove of 
minced garlic, one bay-leaf, a blade of mace, 
two sage-leaves, six cloves, and a Vv'ineglassful 
of Rhine wine. When warm, add the eels ; 
cover, and simmer slowly one hour. Remove 
the eels without breaking the pieces ; strain the 



54 



VOL-AU-VF.NT OF FROGS LEGS. 



sauce, and if thin boil it down ; pour it over the 
eels, and serve either hot or cold. 

Vol-au-Vent of Frogs' Legs.— Rinse two 
pounds of medium-sized legs in cold water 
slightly salted, then par-boil them ; drain, and 
simmer them in milk three-quarters of an 
hour ; when done, drain, and remove the 
bones. Whisk two ounces of butter over 
the range ; add to it slowly a teaspoonful of 
flour, salt and pepper, and a dash of nut- 
meg. Stir in a pint of the milk in which the 
frogs were boiled ; add the meat, and keep on 
the range until wanted. Fill the Vol-au-Vent 
shells just before sending to table. These 
may be made at home ; but the nearest bakery 
will furnish you them at a reasonable price, and 
this will save you much trouble. 



ENTREES OF BEEF. 

Beef d, la Mode.— Take three pounds of 
fresh beef, trim off the fat ; cut half a pound 
of bacon into long, slender strips, and lard the 
beef with it. Mix a few cloves, mace, allspice, 



BEEF, BRAIS^, ETC. 55 

peppers, cayenne, tablespoonful of powdered 
thyme, and two cloves of garlic, with half a pint 
of malt vinegar. Put the meat into an earthen 
crock, with a thin slice of bacon under it, add 
the seasoning and a pint of soup-stock, cover 
the crock and simmer six hours. When pre- 
ferred, vegetables may be added, but it is more 
satisfactory to cook them separately. 

Beef, Brais6, a la Macedoine.— Select a 
five-pound piece of rump of beef, cover it with 
hot water and simmer two hours. Take it 
out, put it in the braising-panwith a slice of ba- 
con, an old carrot sliced, an onion quartered, a 
teaspoonful of salt, six whole peppers, three 
cloves, and a pinch of thyme. Add half a pint 
of the water in which it was partly cooked (and 
save the remainder for soup). Cover, and sim- 
mer an hour, and set the joint in the open oven 
a few moments, while you rub the sauce 
through the colander, remove surplus fat and 
boil the sauce down, then pour it over the 
meat, and serve, surrounded with a liberal 
quantity of young vegetables cut into fancy 
shapes, harmoniously blended as to colors, 
and piled up in dainty tufts alternated with 
sprigs of parsley or slices of lemon, or both. 
If it is too much trouble to prepare your own 



56 BEEF, BRAIS£, ETC. 

macedoine you may procure it from any first- 
class grocer. 

Beef, Braise, Hungarian Style. — Beef 
cooked with the addition of a liberal quantity 
of Paprika (which is a red but very mild and 
excellently fla\ ored pepper) is called Hungarian 
style. This pepper may be purchased at the 
Spanish stores and at Hungarian restaurants. 
Select a five-pound piece of rump of beef, cover 
it with hot water, and simmer two hours. Take 
it out, put it in the braising-pan with a slice of 
bacon, a carrot sliced, an onion quartered, a 
teaspoonful of salt, three cloves, a pinch of 
thyme, and a heaping tablespoonful of Paprika. 
Add half a pint of the water in which it was 
partly cooked (and save the remainder for 
soup). Cover, and simmer an hour, and set the 
joint in the open oven a few moments while 
you rub the sauce through the colander ; re- 
move surplus fat, boil the sauce down, then 
pour it over the meat, and serve. 

Beef, Braise, with Young Carrots.— Same 
as a la Macedoine^ except use carrots instead of 
macedoine, and serve, surrounded with a lib- 
eral quantity of young spring carrots, which are 
very nice. The young carrots require but little 
cooking. 

Beefsteak Pie.— Select flank or rump steak 



FILET MIGXOX, ETC. 57 

for this dish. Cut the meat in two-inch pieces 
about an inch wide ; season them with salt, 
white pepper, and minced parsley ; dredge with 
flour. Wash, peel, and cut in long, thin pieces 
half the quantity of potatoes. Line a baking- 
dish with paste ; add one long, thin strip of ba- 
con, then the steak alternated with layers of 
the potato ; add gravy or broth enough to keep 
the contents moist ; cover with a top crust, 
brush a little egg over it, and bake until quite 
brown on top. 

Filet Mignon, Sauce Eordelaise. —Take 
two pounds of beef tenderloin, cut it into small 
slices crosswise, and broil them, season them 
with salt and pepper, arrange them neatly on a 
dish, pour over them sauce Bordelaisc\ and 
serve. '' Filet Mignon " means a delicate, 
small, favorite piece of fillet or tenderloin of 
beef. (See sauce Bordeiaise.) 

Fillet of Beef, Sauce Bearnaise. — Select 
three pounds of the large end of a beef tender- 
loin, trim off the fat and tough skin covering 
the meat, and either lard it or cover with thin 
strips of salt pork ; add salt and pepper, and 
bake thirty minutes ; cut it into slices, and serve 
with sauce Bearnaise (which see). 

Hamburg Steak. — Take one pound of very 
finely chopped or scraped round or rump steak. 



58 ROAST SIRLOIN OF REEF, ETC. 

If you do not care to scrape it free from sinews, 
ask the butcher to do it for you. Put in a fry- 
ing-pan an ounce of butter ; add a teaspoonful 
of minced onion, and fry it a delicate brown. 
Now shape the steak in a round form about an 
inch and a half thick, and fry it in the same 
pan with the onion ; when done add salt and 
a pinch of cayenne. Meat prepared in this 
form is always more digestible than solid steak, 
and the ways of serving it are quite numerous. 
Some like it raw, highly seasoned with finely- 
chopped raw onion and parsley, cayenne, salt, 
and the yolk of a raw egg. Others eat it very 
rare, and some insist on cooking it almost as 
dry as chips. In our opinion it is best cooked 
about '' medium," and a poached egg placed 
on top of it is quite acceptable. 

Koast Sirloin of Beef, Yorkshire Pud- 
ding.— The sirloin (written also surloin) of beef 
is the outer or upper part of the loins, covering 
the kidneys, and separated from the tenderloin 
by a flat bone. It is known to American house- 
keepers as porterhouse (the popular steak of 
the old New York porter and ale houses, hence 
its name ). The cut usually palmed off on New 
York housekeepers as sirloin is a hip steak or 
roast, the proper name of which is a rump-cut, 



ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF, ETC. 59 

considered by New England people to be one 
of the best joints. 

Select the middle cut of the loin of a good- 
sized animal, and see to it that the outer fat is 
at least a quarter of an inch thick ; for if the 
top covering of fat be thin, and more like gris- 
tle than fat, the meat will be found very tough 
and unpalatable. Trim away most of the in- 
ner fat and a part of the flank ; and as the ten- 
derloin is more useful as steaks or an entree, it 
is best to cut it out ; also turn the flank under, 
and if skewers are used, insert them in the flank 
only. Salt and pepper the whole joint liberal- 
ly, and dash a little flour over the outer fat. 
Put it in a pan large enough to hold the joint 
and a pudding, and when the joint, is half done 
add the pudding. While cooking baste the 
meat, and if the pudding is too dry baste it 
also. At the end of an hour and a half an eight- 
pound joint, if a good thick one, will be cook- 
ed ; but, if a thin joint, a much shorter time is 
required. 

To make the Yorkshire pudding : Beat thor- 
oughly five eggs ; add to them a teaspoonful of 
salt, a pint of milk, and a teaspoonful of lem- 
on juice. Sift together two teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder and three half-pints of flour. 



6o SAUCE BEARNAISE. 

Add the egg mixture gradually, and make a stiff 
batter. Put it in the pan, not under, but be- 
side the beef. [A Yorkshire matron suggests 
the addition of lemon- juice to correct the too 
frequent ill-effects of so rich a dish.] 

To carve a sirloin of beef, the easiest manner 
possible is as follows : Remove the bone be- 
fore sending the joint to table ; place the thick- 
est end towards you, and with a firm stroke cut 
an even slice from one end of the joint to the 
other. Serve a portion of the pudding on each 
plate. When the joint is sent to table with the 
bone in it, cut thin slices down to the flat bone, 
and then with the sharp point of the knife cut 
them free from the bone. The dripping in the 
pan should be freed from most of the fat, and 
the remainder used for making the thick gravy 
so familiar to us all. 

Sauce Bearnaise.— Reduce a gallon of strong 
soup to a quart by long boiling, and keep it 
warm. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, turn 
them into a buttered saucepan, whisk them, 
and gradually add a pint of the reduced soup 
(which is called glaze) ; add, while whisking, a 
tablespoonful of vinegar strongly flavored with 
garlic (or, if liked, a quantity of the juice from 
bruised garlic or shallots) and the juice of a 
lemon. After beating the eggs, stir them in 



SAUCE BORDELAISE. 6l 

the pan continually with a Avooden spoon, and 
do not let the sauce boil at any time. 

Sauce Bordelaise.— Put a tablespoonful of 
chopped white onions into a hot saucepan with 
a little butter, white pepper and salt, and half 
a pint of wine ; reduce it, by boiling, to quarter 
of a pint, then add half a pint of dark, thick, 
beef gravy ; boil a few moments, add a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped capers ; mix gently to- 
gether, and serve. 

Tongue, with Spatzen, Boiled.— Trim off 
the ragged end of a smoked tongue ; cover it 
with cold water ; let this come to a boil, then 
pour off the water, and fill the pot up again with 
cold water. Let this come to a boil ; then allow 
it to simmer two hours. When done, remove 
the skin and useless root-end, and cut it in neat, 
thin slices. Place them on a hot dish as near 
the original form as possible ; put round it a 
high border of well made spatzen, which is pre- 
pared as follows : Mix together a pint of flour, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a scant pint of 
milk. Beat the yolks of two eggs ; add them 
to the flour and stir the mixture well ; put a part 
of it on a flat dinner plate, and flake it into a 
pan of boiling water with a knife, alternately 
dipped in the pan of hot water ; let the strips 



62 TRIPE LYONNAISE. 

boil until they float on the surface ; then take 
them out carefully, and drain. Put into a fry- 
ing-pan an ounce of butter ; when hot, stir into 
it half a pint of grated bread-crumbs ; toss them 
about until crisp and brown, and pour them over 
the spatzen together with the butter not ab- 
sorbed by them. [Spatzen is a favorite Ger- 
man dish, and it is so good that I marvel much 
at not meeting with it at our tables A little 
practice, and our young house-keepers may be 
able to prepare it almost as well as her German 
cousin.] 

Tripe Lyonnaise.— Cut half a pound of cold 
boiled tripe into neat squares. Put two ounces 
of butter and a tablespoonful of chopped onion 
in a frving-pan and fry to a delicate brown ; 
add to the tripe a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
lev and a little strong vinegar, salt, and cayenne; 
stir the pan to prevent burning. Cover the bot- 
tom of the platter with tomato sauce, add the 
contents of the pan, and serve. 

Tripe with Clams, a la Poulette.— Cut half 
a pound of honeycomb tripe in inch square 
pieces ; wash thoroughly in water slightly salted; 
simmer three-quarters of an hour. Boil twenty 
small clams in half a pint of clam broth for 
twentv minutes ; strain both and mix the liquids. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs, add a gill of milk. 



TRIPE WITH OYSTERS. 6^ 

a tablespoonful of dissolved flour, salt, and 
pepper ; when the liquid cools, add the other 
ingredients. Melt and whisk an ounce of but- 
ter ; while doing so add the sauce gradually. 
When quite hot and thick add the clams and 
tripe. 

Tripe with. Oysters. — Tripe, when prepared 
by a simple process, is very nutritious and easily 
digested. Cut up half a pound of tripe, wash 
it well in water slightly salted and simmer three- 
quarters of an hour. Take it out of the broth, 
add a little butter rolled in flour, salt, and pep- 
per ; simmer, and add a little more flour : if not 
thick enough return the tripe, and add a dozen 
small oysters ; simmer fifteen minutes longer, 
and serve. 



ENTREES OF CALF'S HEAD. 

Cairs Head.— Ask the butcher to chop the 
head in two, then remove the brains ; place 
them in cold water for an hour, drain, and 
boil them in salted water twenty minutes, and 
set them one side. Put the head in cold water, 



64 calf's head, a la poulette. 

wash it well, let it remain in water one or two 
hours to draw out the blood ; now cover it with 
hot water, season with pepper, salt and mace ; 
boil gentl}' two hours and a half, and serve with 
cream sauce. 

Cairs Head, & la Poulette.— Prepare the 
head as in the foregoing recipe, and send to ta- 
ble with a sauce prepared as follows : Put into a 
saucepan two ounces of butter ; when it begins 
to melt, whisk it. 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs with two gills 
of cream containing a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently in- 
to the warm butter ; keep it quite warm until 
it thickens, but do not boil, or it will curdle. 
Add the juice of a lemon, pour the sauce over 
it, strew a little chopped parsley on top, and 
serve neatly garnished. 

Cairs Head, en Tortue.— When prepared 
according to the formulas laid down in the 
works of French chefs, this is one of the most 
elaborate dishes known. We will endeavor to 
give a recipe that is within the reach of most 
families. A principal object in view is to make 
it attractive to the eye by varied garnishments. 
Trim off all crust from a loaf of sandwich 
bread, cut it in two, make it as square as pos- 
sible, and fry one piece in boiling fat ; when 



calf's head, en tortue. 65 

brown, drain. Boil the head and brains sepa- 
rately, and chop the brains very fine. Add to 
them a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt 
and white pepper, a heaping teaspoonful of 
bread-crumbs, and the yolk of an egg. Roll 
them into little cakes. Dip each in egg and 
crumbs, and fry just before they are wanted. 
After the head is boiled, remove all bone, skin 
the tongue, and replace it. Cream two ounces 
of butter ; add to it a heaping tablespoonful of 
dissolved flour, whisk it, and add a pint of the 
liquid in which the head was boiled. Season 
it with salt and cayenne. Add the pulp of two 
tomatoes and a glass of sherry ; simmer twenty 
minutes, and pour in a sauce boat. Cut the 
head and tongue in pieces about two inches 
square, put the pieces of fried bread on a dish, 
arrange the pieces of head round it. Arrange 
the little brain cakes on top and on the sides of 
the bread, alternately with hard-boiled eggs 
quartered. A few hot mushrooms are an im- 
provement, and truffles are also used. A few 
stoned or stuffed olives tucked in little open- 
ings are acceptable. The dish may now be 
served, but should you have three silver skewers, 
and arrange on each a red crayfish, or prawn, 
or the boiled claw of a crab, then a truffle or 
an olive, and stick these in the bread as top 



66 calf's head, etc. 

ornaments. Should you have a bottle of pre- 
pared French cockscombs, these should be put 
on the skewers first. The garnishing is a mat- 
ter of fancy, and a little practice will make one 
proficient in it. 

Calfs Head, Sauce Vinaigrette.— Ask the 
butcher to chop the head in two, then remove 
the brains ; place them in cold water for an 
hour ; drain, and boil them in salted water twen- 
ty minutes, and set them one side. Put the 
head in cold water, wash it well, let it remain 
in water one or two hours to draw out the 
blood ; now cover it with hot water, season 
with pepper, salt, and mace ; boil gently two 
hours and a half, and serve with a sauce made 
as follows : Chop very fine two pickled or fresh 
button onions, a dozen capers, and half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Add to these half 
a saltspoonful of black pepper, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, three, tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 
five tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; mix, and serve. 

Calf's Head, Sauce Tartare.— The calf's 
head left from the preceding day's dinner and 
the brains make an excellent loreakfast dish. 
Cut the meat off the head in i)ieces about the 
size of oysters ; dip them in egg and batter, 
and fry in plenty of hot fat. The brains should 
be well washed, drained, and par-boiled, then 



calf's head, terrapin style. 67 

cut in slices and fried. Serve with sauce tar- 
tare. (See page 52.) 

Calfs Head, Terrapin Style. — Cut up a 
pound of cold, boiled calf's head into small, 
neat squares, set them one side, and prepare a 
dressing as follows : Put half a pound of butter 
in a saucepan, and let it melt. Beat up the 
yolks of four eggs with a pint of rich cream, 
and season with salt, cayenne, and nutmeg ; 
whisk the butter, and, while doing so, add the 
cream and eggs gradually ; simmer, but do not 
let it boil. Take half a pint of sherry, and add 
to it a teaspoonful of browned flour and half 
a teaspoonful of India Soy ; whisk well, and 
add gradually to the sauce. Keep it hot until 
it thickens, and add the calf's head. Mix, and 
serve in a hot dish. Should the sauce boil it 
will curdle. The yolks of hard-boiled eggs 
worked to a paste, then made into little balls to 
represent terrapin eggs, are recommended if one 
cares to take the trouble to make them. 

Minced CalPs Head.— Cut into strips the 
fleshy part of one cheek together with the 
tongue of the calf's head from the preceding 
day. Cut the strips into very small dice. Put 
into a saucepan half a pint of rich gravy, warm 
the minced meat in it, season with a pinch of 
cayenne, two saltspoonfuls of salt, and a gill of 



6S BREAST OF LAMB, WITH PEAS. 

sherry ; simmer fifteen minutes, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent burning ; break into the dish 
two raw eggs, stir until set, put the meat neat- 
ly on slices of toast, and serve. 



ENTREES OF LAMB. 

Breast of Lamb, with Peas.— This part of 
the lamb is always cheaper than other portions, 
and not only has this to recommend it, but is 
readily adaptable to many delicate and palate- 
pleasing dishes, one of which is the following : 
Trim off the skin and a part of the fat from the 
breast of a spring lamb ; cut the meat into 
squares or triangular pieces ; dredge in flour ; 
put them into a stew-pan with a small quantity 
of butter and herb seasonings ; toss them about, 
and brown them nicely ; add a pint of soup- 
stock to each pound of meat ; simmer until ten- 
der, and skim off all surplus fat. Just before 
serving, add half a can of French peas, pour 
out on a hot dish, garnish with large croutons^ 
and serve. The tops of asparagus, French 
beans, etc. , may be used instead of peas. 



EPIGRAMME OF LAMB, ETC. 69 

Another good vray for preparing breast of 
lamb is as follows : Cut the meat into pieces as 
above described ; dip them in beaten egg, roll 
in cracker-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat ; drain 
off nicely all surplus fat, place them on a hot 
dish, pour tomato sauce over them, and serve. 
They are also very nice when broiled. 

Epigramme of Lamb, Macedoine.— Trim 
the fat and skin off a breast of lamb, put it in 
a saucepan, add a strip of bacon, a sprig of pars- 
ley, a slice of lemon, four whole cloves, six pep- 
pers, and a pint of clear soup ; simmer an hour, 
drain, and save the broth for future use as a 
sauce. Remove the bones, and place the meat 
between two plates with a weight on top ; when 
cold, cut the meat in V-shape pieces, dip them 
in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in 
plenty of boiling fat. Have ready a macedoine 
of vegetables (assorted vegetables cut in neat 
forms and boiled), put them in the centre of a 
dish, arrange the epigrammes around them, and 
serve. 

Fricassee of Lamb, with Peas.— The breast 
and flap or shoulder of lamb is a most excel- 
lent dish served in this form : Cut the meat in 
neat pieces ; toss them in a very little flour ; 
put them in a saucepan with just cold water 
enough to prevent burning ; when it begins to 



70 LAMH CHOPS, WITH FRENCH PEAS. 

simmer, cover with hot water ; add salt, white 
pepper, and the slightest suspicion of mace. 
Simmer slowly one hour. To two pounds of 
meat add half a pint of canned peas. 

Lamb Chops, with French Peas.— Dain- 
ty lamb chops require but a moment to cook, 
and unless care be taken the cook is liable to 
dry them up. They should be turned repeated- 
ly to save all the juice, and when done arranged 
neatly around a mound of peas. Open a can 
of French peas (purchased from a reliable 
dealer, who will not palm off on you peas of 
second-class canners) ; drain off the water ; 
melt an ounce of butter in a pan, but do not 
let it become very hot ; then add the peas, salt 
and white pepper ; shake the pan to prevent 
burning, and when they are all hot, ser\e. The 
great mistake made with canned peas is that 
many cooks spoil them by allowing them to 
boil. As they are already cooked, they only 
require heating to make them palatable. 

Lamb Fritters, Tomato Sauce.— When cold 
roast lamb will not slice nicely, owing to its hav- 
ing been badly carved at the preceding meal, it 
may be served as fritters. Trim the meat free 
from the bones, and cut it very fme ; to one 
pound of this add half a scant teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper (red and black mixed) 



LAMBS HEAD, STUFFED. 7 1 

and the yolks of two eggs ; bind together, and 
shape the mixture into small, thin cakes, dip 
them in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, re- 
peat the process, and drop them in very hot fat. 
Serve with tomato sauce (which see). 

Lamb's Head, Stuffed.— The head of the 
house-fed lamb is a choice tid-bit. Wash the 
head (with the wool on) until quite clean, then 
scald it, and remove the wool and eyes. Cut 
out the tongue, remove the brain from the inner 
side, scald and clean the tongue and cut it fine; 
wash, scald, and mince the brains ; put them 
in a dish with half a pint of bread-crumbs, salt 
and pepper to taste ; moisten with milk, add a 
yolk of egg. Stuff the head with this, rub over 
it a liberal quantity of butter rolled in flour, and 
bake a rich brown. 

Lamb's Tongue on Toast. — A number of 
excellent dishes can be prepared from the dain- 
ty tongue of the lamb, whether it be pickled 
or fresh. If pickled, blanch it in hot water a 
moment to draw out its acidity, then plunge 
into cold water, drain, and cut into thin slices, 
toss them about in a little butter a moment, 
cover with gravy nicely seasoned and slightly 
thickened, and serve on toast. The fresh 
tongue should be first boiled and then cooked 
in the gra\T whole, if preferred ; but they are 



72 TOMATO SAUCE. 

more evenly permeated with the gravy if quar- 
tered or sliced. 

Tomato Sauce.— Open a can of tomatoes that 
contains but little liquid ; simmer them gently 
three-quarters of an hour ; season with salt, 
cayenne, a clove of garlic bruised, and verv 
little mace. Press them through a fine sieve ; 
put the pulp in a clean, hot stew-pan with a 
little butter rolled in flour ; stir to prevent burn- 
ing, and, when quite thick, serve. A most ex- 
cellent tomato sauce is made of a brilliant red 
tomato catsup. Take half a pint of it, heat it 
gently, add a gill of rich soup-stock and a tea- 
spoonful of flour dissolved in a little cold water; 
simmer until it thickens, and serve. Ordinary 
catsups do not have the proper color, and are 
likely to sour when heated. 



ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

Cold Mutton, with Pur6e of Tomatoes.— 

Reduce two quarts of fresh tomatoes to a pulp 
(or puree) ; put half of it in a small buttered 
pan, slice cold mutton and add it to the dish ; 



MINCED MUTTON, ETC. 73 

cover with the remaining puree ; strew ovei 
the top salt and pepper and a layer of bread- 
crumbs ; put in the oven long enough to lightly 
brown the top. 

Minced Mutton, with Poached Egg.— 
The cold mutton left from a dinner may be 
converted into a very appetizing dish as follows: 
Cut the meat into thin slices, and cut these very 
fine. Melt an ounce of butter in a fn-ing-pan. 
Cut up a slice of onion, and fry it in the butter; 
then remove it ; add the meat, a little salt and 
pepper, and soup or water to moisten it ; when 
thoroughly warmed through, put spoonfuls of 
it neatly on toast ; on top of the meat place a 
poached egg. 

Mutton Cutlets & la Maintenon.— [Of the 
various ways suggested to prepare cutlets after 
the direction of Madame Maintenon, the fol- 
lowing is the best mode for the household.] 
Fry one small onion in a little butter until a del- 
icate brown, then add half a pint of hot water, 
salt, a sprig of thyme and parsley, a dozen allspice 
broken, and three cloves ; put in two cutlets 
or chops, and simmer half an hour ; drain, 
and place them between dishes under pressure. 
When cold, trim them neatly. Boil the sauce 
down one-half, remove the fat, and add two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of minced mushrooms, 



74 PLAIN MUTTON CURRY. 

and a clove of garlic minced very fine ; add just 
flour enough to take up the moisture, and keep 
the pan on the range until the mince is firm, 
then spread it on both sides of the chops or cut- 
lets. Squeeze a little lemon juice over them, 
and lay them on buttered plain writing paper ; 
wrap each chop in the paper as neatly as possi- 
ble, and put them in the oven ten minutes. 

[Cutlets a la Maintenon were, it is said, first 
served to Louis XIV. by direction of Madame 
Maintenon ; to whom he was married privately 
about the year 1685. Madame de Maintenon 
was the daughter of the scapegrace d'Aubigne, 
and was born in the prison of Niort, Nov. 27th, 
1635. Forced by poverty, she married the de- 
formed and sickly Scarron and nursed him until 
his death. She afterwards met Louis XIV. , and, 
at the age of fifty, married him.] 

Plain Mutton Curry.— Cut up half a pound 
of boiled mutton in neat symmetrical pieces. 
Chop up quarter of an onion, and fry it with 
three tablespoonfuls of oil or butter, add the 
meat, toss it about a few minutes, strew over it 
half a teaspoonful of curry and add beef broth, 
gravy or water enough to make a thick sauce ; 
simmer gently a few minutes, and serve. This 
is about as simple a mode of preparing the dish 
as can be proposed. It may be improved upon 



PLAIN MUTTON CURRY. 75 

by fn-ing a little apple with the onion, in 
adding more water, and thickening it with 
browned flour. As many of the recipes re- 
commend rice, as a part of their composition, 
it is presented for the convenience of the 
readers. The cardinal point to be gained is to 
have each grain of rice, distinct and unbruised, 
but at the same time tender : to accomplish 
this, a small quantity of rice must be boiled in 
a large pot or pan, which should be filled with 
cold water Wash half a pound of rice in sev- 
eral waters. This may be done by placing a 
colander in a large tin and putting the rice in the 
colander ; then add cold water, and lift out the 
colander several times to deposit all grit into 
the outer tin. Reject all husks and imperfect 
grains ; flow it in a large pot or saucepan as 
above mentioned ; add a very liberal quantity 
of cold water and a little salt, and boil rapidly 
from twenty to thirty minutes (depending upon 
the age and variety of rice). Test the grains 
occasionally and when a slight pressure be- 
tween the thumb and forefinger will crush 
them, they are done. If allowed to boil until 
the grains burst, or if boiled in a small quan- 
tity of water, the 2;rains will stick together, 
which is objectionable. When done, drain 
off all water, and place the rice near the range 



76 BROILED PORK TENDKRIX)IN. 

and covered with meat extract, called " glaze," 
when it will reject all moisture, but will not 
become hard and drv. 



ENTREES OF PORK. 

Broiled Pork Tenderloin.— Select two fresh 
pork tenderloins, remove the membranous skin 
covering them ; put them in a dish, and strew 
over them a tablespoonful each of minced onion 
and pickled cucumber, a teaspoonful of salt, a 
saltspoonful of black pepper, six whole cloves, 
a dozen allspice, and a leaf of thyme ; cover with 
half water and vinegar, and let stand over night. 
The next day, drain, brush over them a little 
sweet olive oil, dredge them in cracker-crumbs, 
and broil thoroughly over a charcoal fire. Put 
in the centre of a dish a mound of hot apple 
sauce, or, if preferred, a pyramid of fried toma- 
toes ; add the tenderloin, and serve. Thev 
may be cut into short pieces and broiled, but 
many prefer to see them carved at table. There 
are innumerable ways of preparing the pork 
tenderloin, and the ingenuity of the cook should 



TENDERLOIN OF PORK, ETC. 77 

be brought into play to see in how many various 
styles they can be made acceptable. 

Tenderloin of Pork with Fried Apples.— 
Cut the thin membranous skin from the tender- 
loin, and put the latter in a marinade of claret 
seasoned with whole spice and a few slices of 
oranges. Let it stand in this four hours ; drain 
and dry on a cloth, and split in two lengthwise; 
rub it with butter, and broil until well done. 
Put in the center of a dish a mound of fried 
apples ; arrange the meat around it, and serve. 
The marinade may be boiled down, thickened 
and served as a sauce, if a sauce is desired. 



ENTREES OF VEAL. 

Curry of Veal. - Cut up one pound of raw 
vftal into inch pieces. Mix a teaspoonful of 
curry, half a teaspoonful of rice flour, and a 
saltspoonful of salt together; dip the meat in 
melted butter or oil, then roll each piece in 
the powder, and fr}- it in butter until a delicate 
brown. Onion may be added or omitted. 
Mince half a sour apple and fry it with the 



78 EPIGRAM MES OF VEAL. 

meat; add half a pint of soup-stock; simmer 
half an hour; squeeze over all the juice of half 
a lemon, mix, and serve. 

Epigramines of Veal.— Take that part of the 
forequarter of veal which is chopped from the 
ribs in the preparation of rib chops Trim off 
the surplus fat. Put the whole piece in a 
saucepan, and add a sliced onion, a sprig or 
two of celery tops, salt, and a liberal allowance 
of whole peppers; cover with hot water or soup- 
stock, and simmer until the bones can be 
easily removed, when it will be properly 
cooked. Place it between two platters, on 
top of which put a heavy weight, and let it 
become cold. Strain the sauce to free it from 
fat, and hold it in reserve. Now cut the veal 
into neat pieces of equal size; dip them in 
beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and strew over 
them a little salt and pepper; dip again in egg, 
and again roll in crumbs ; have on the range a 
liberal quantity of fat; when it is smoking hot, 
add the meat, and fr>' to a delicate brown. 
Heat the sauce, and add to it just sherry 
enough to give it flavor, thicken it with a little 
brown flour, taste for seasoning, and send to 
table in a boat. 

Fricandeau of Veal. — This (in kitchen 
French) is veal neatlv larded and browned in a 



ETC. 79 

saucepan, or baked. Select a lean, thick piece 
of meat cut from the thick part of the leg. 
Insert ribbons of larding pork over the top 
surface. Put into a shallow saucepan three 
slices of bacon, six whole black pepper-corns, 
three cloves, one minced onion, a tablespoonful 
of chopped green herbs, one carrot sliced, salt, 
and clear soup or water enough to prevent 
burning. Add the meat, and cover. Baste 
occasionally, simmer until tender (allow thirty 
minutes to the pound), remove the meat, strain 
the sauce, skim off all fat ; now simmer the 
sauce until thick and brown, and serve both, 
or pour a little of the sauce over the meat, and 
set it in the oven a moment to brown the sur- 
face. 

Fricassee of Veal with Oyster Plant.— 
Trim off all surplus fat and bone from the 
breast of veal, and cut the meat into neatly 
shaped pieces ; dredge these with flour, and 
put them in a saucepan with batter enough to 
prevent burning. Cover, and let it steam in its 
own vapors thirty minutes ; then add a pint of 
soup-stock or water, and let it cook slowly. 
Scrape and cut into narrow strips as much 
oyster plant as you have meat in bulk ; add to 
it the meat, with salt, a few whole, white pep- 
pers, a dash of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of 



3o RAGOUT OF VEAL, ETC. 

grated lemon-peel. Add a little more stock if 
a liberal quantity of sauce is desired. Cover 
the dish, and simmer until tender, allowing 
forty minutes for the vegetables to cook, care 
being exercised that they are not cooked too 
much. Remove the pan to the back of the 
range ; take out a gill of the liquid, and add to 
it the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pour this 
over the contents of the saucepan ; let it stand 
a few minutes longer, and serve. Garnish the 
dish with slices of lemon, triangular croutons^ 
and sprigs of parsley. 

Ragout of Veal, Jardiniere.— A ragout is 
a culinary relish, originally intended to restore 
to a jaded palate a sense of due appreciation of 
food. The meat may be cut in pieces or served 
whole. A piece of the breast of veal is excel- 
lent for this purpose. Roll the meat, and tie it, 
put it in a stew-pan, and add just enough stock 
or broth to cover it. When it begins to boil, add 
such vegetables as are required ; season with a 
part of a blade of mace, a sprig or two of dried 
herbs, the rind of a lemon, salt, and a small 
capsicum pod. Simmer two and a half hours ; 
remove the meat, strain the liquid, and thicken 
it with a little brown flour ; add a glass of 
sherry ; pour the gravy over the meat, surround 



VEAL CROQUETTES, ETC. 8l 

it with a border of vegetables cut in neat, 
appetizing forms. 

The commonplace ragout is more like a stew, 
and is usually served with irregular chunks of 
vegetables, without any thought of pleasing the 
eye or the palate. 

Veal Croquettes with String-Beans.— Chop 
up two pounds of cold roast veal with two 
boiled sweet-breads; moisten them with a little 
clear soup, and bind together with yolks of 
two eggs; season with a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, salt, and cayenne; roll the mass into 
cones, dip them in beaten egg, roll in 
crumbs, dip again in egg, and again roll in 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Arrange neatly on 
a dish with small ends upright, around them 
put a border of string-beans boiled and nicely 
seasoned, and serve. 

Veal Cutlet, a la Provencale.— Put into a 
frying-pan a tablespoonful of the best olive oil, 
add a clove of garlic, a teaspoonful of chopped 
shallot, and six raw mushrooms minced; toss 
them about a moment, and add part of a bay- 
leaf, a sprig of dry thyme, fifteen pepper-corns 
slightly bruised, a small bit of mace, half a 
pint of soup-stock or gravy, and a gill of sherr)\ 
Simmer half an hour, remove the garlic, add a 
gill more of stock, and strain the sauce through 



82 VEAL CUTLET BROILED, ETC. 

a sieve. Return to tlie range, and add half a pint 
of solid tomato pulp ; heat through, and just 
when pouring over the cutlets add a little 
lemon-juice and salt. The sauce being made, 
the cutlets may be broiled, fried plain, or sau- 
teed. 

Veal Cutlet Broiled, with Sorrel.— Select a 
cutlet from the thick part of the leg ; cut it in 
two-inch square pieces ; beat them a moment ; 
brush over them a little sweet olive oil, and broil 
over a charcoal fire if possible, as the gas from 
hard coal toughens the meat. When done, dip 
the pieces in a mixture of melted butter, lemon- 
juice, salt, and pepper. Put in the centre of a 
dish a mound of sorrel puree ; arrange the meat 
around it, and serve. The sorrel is prepared as 
follows ; — Wash two quarts of freshly gathered 
garden sorrel, remove the midribs or stems ; add 
just water enough to prevent burning (say half 
a pint), cover, and boil half an hour ; drain, and 
squeeze out all moisture. Fry one-quarter of 
an onion until brown, dust over it half a tea- 
spoonful of flour ; add half a gill of gravy and 
a square of sugar ; add the sorrel ; season with 
salt and pepper ; warm it through, and stir it 
continually. Let this part of the process con- 
tinue ten minutes, and then rub the sorrel 
through a fine sieve. 



VEAL CUTLET, GERMAN STYLE. 83 

Veal Cutlet, German Style.— German gen- 
tlewomen, as a class, are excellent cooks, and 
are more successful with veal than even our 
celebrated cJicfs. Their mode of preparing 
cutlets is as follows ; — Select the cutlets from 
the leg, di^•ide each slice in pieces about three 
inches square, and beat them until the meat 
is almost ready to fall apart. Beat the yolks 
of eggs thoroughly, and season them with salt 
and pepper ; dip the pieces of meat in this, then 
roll them in finely-grated crumbs of home-made 
bread ; drop them in smoking hot fat, and fry 
to a dark brown color. Rub a hot side-dish 
with a clove of garlic, put the cutlets on it, and 
serve, plain or with sorrel, spinach, or tomato 
sauce. 

Veal Cutlet, Saute, with Puree of Carrots. 
— Select a cutlet from the thick part of the leg, 
beat it with a bat, and brown it in a little hot 
luitter. Boil a dozen, two-inch young carrots 
for half an hour in water slightly salted; mash 
them fine, rub them through a seive, and sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and two ounces of but- 
ter. Cover the bottom of a hot dish with the 
carrot-puree; place the cutlets on top, and serve. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

INTRODUCTORY, .... 7 

BROTHS. 

Beef Broth, 7 

Beef Juice, 10 

Beef Tea for Convalescents, . . 10 
Liebig's Extract of Beef, . . 11 

Mutton Broth, 11 

Veal Broth, 12 

Chicken Broth, . . . . .12 
Scallop Broth, . . . -13 

GRUELS. 

Oatmeal Gruel, . . . .14 

Cerealine Gruel, . . , -15 

Rice Gruel, . . . . .15 

Arrow-Root Gruel, ... 15 

Barley Gruel, . . . . .15 

Barley Water, . . . .15 

Rice Water, . . .16 



CONTENTS. 



TOAST. 



Dry Toast, .... 


. 17 


Dip Toast, 


17 


Milk Toast, 


. 18 


Anchovy Toast, 


18 


Clam Toast, 


. 18 


Marrow-bone Toast, 


. 18 


Oyster Toast, . 


• 19 


Salmon Toast, 


19 


Tongue Toast, . 


. 19 



DIET DRINKS. 

Frappe Champagne, 
Wine Whey, 
Eggnog, 
Sherry AND Egg, 



20 
21 
21 
21 



FRUIT DRINKS. 

Currant-Jelly Water, 
Currant Water, . 
Apple Water, 



22 
22 
22 



MILK. 

Skimmed Milk, 
Buttermilk, 
Milk. . 



23 



CONTENTS. 

I 

FRUITS AS FOOD AND MEDICINE. 
EATING BEFORE SLEEPING. 



Raw Oysters, .... 


. 28 


Oyster Broth, 


. 28 


Pigs' Feet, 


• 29 


Stewed Tripe with Oysters, 


• 29 


Boiled Sweetbreads, . 


• 29 


Poached Eggs, 


• 29 


Boiled Calf's Head, . 


. 29 


Cold Roast Beef, . 


. 29 


Hamburg Steak, 


• 30 


Raw Meat, .... 


. 30 


Venison Steak, .... 


. 30 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Calf's-foot Jelly, 
The Hot-Water Cure, 



• 31 
31 



INTRODUCTORY. 



This little handbook is offered to house- 
keepers, in order that they may readily under- 
stand the popular dietetic formulas so universal- 
ly recommended by physicians, many of whom 
neglect the details of preparing the nutriment 
they prescribe, owing probably to the fact that 
all physicians are not cooks, as many of them 
were in olden, and all of them should be in 
modern, times. 

An exhaustive work on the subject of dietetics 
would naturally embrace many things, which, 
while excellent in certain diseases, would lead to 
distressing results in others. Care should there- 
fore be exercised not to administer other than 
the most simple diet until ihe nature of a disease 
is known, and even then the habits of the inva- 
lid should be taken into consideration. 

A nurse must always keep in viev/ the fact 
that the great desideratum is to administer the 
most nutritious food in such form that the pa- 
tient can most easilv assimilate it. 



8 INTRODUCTORY. 

One word in regard to patent medicines. 
The sick-room is not the place for experiments, 
and we trust the time is not far distant when 
all so-called remedies and alleged health foods 
and drinks shall not be permitted to be sold or 
offered for sale, until they receive the indorse- 
ment of responsible boards of health. 

The lives that are sacrificed yearly by the ad- 
ministration of soothing (?) syrups and other 
pernicious nostrums are something terrible to 
contemplate, and the most stringent laws should 
be in force regulating their sale ; in no case 
should they be sold without a physician's pre- 
scription. 

Nurses have been known to purchase these 
poisonous compounds, and clandestinely ad- 
minister them to children in their charge, 
thereby dwarfing their intellects, and, in some 
instances, actually destroying the lives of the 
children. 



BROTHS. 

Beef Broth.— A well-made beef broth con- 
tains more nutriment than the old-fashioned 
beef tea, and is therefore the best of the many 
nourishing formulas known to the sick-room. 

In appearance, also, the broth is far superior 
to the tea, which is a very important factor in 
the diet for the sick. 

The choicest piece of meat for broth is a neck 
piece. Chop bone and meat quite small, and 
see to it that there is about one third bone to 
two thirds meat. Put into a gallon crock or jar 
one pound of the meat, and add a quart of cold 
water ; cover the jar with a plate, and place 
it in a deep saucepan of water. Simmer for 
four hours, strain into a smaller saucepan, and 
boil until reduced nearly one half ; remove 
every particle of fat or scum. Now comes the 
all-important question of seasoning, wherein we 
are necessarily obliged to consult the fastidious 
tastes of the invalid. Celery-salt or a stalk of 
celery allowed to simmer in the broth is accept- 
able, and the best mode of adding pepper (when 



lO BEEF JUICE. 

it is allowed) is to let a red-pepper pod remain 
in the broth for a moment or two. Ground 
pepper is objectionable for various reasons. 
Dyspeptic patients arc very apt to crave season- 
ings that cannot be taken with impunity. To 
serve beef broth, care must be exercised that it 
is not too hot ; half a cupful at a time is all that 
should be served. 

Beef Juice.— Have the dealer cut a thin slice 
of rump steak, remove the fat, and singe the 
outside slightly, then scrape it into shreds with a 
knife. Warm the beef press by pouring hot 
water over it, dry it, and with it press out the 
juice into glass or cup. Place the cup in warm 
water, and allow the juice to become quite Vvarm, 
and add a little salt. A warmed lemon-squeezer 
may be used instead of the press. 

Rump steak is recommended because it con- 
tains more flavor than other cuts. 

Beef Tea for Convalescents.— As the old- 
fashioned beef tea is sometimes recommended, 
wc give the following recipe for its preparation : 
Shred half a pound of lean steak, let it stand in 
a pint of cold water for three quarters of an 
hour, then put both into a quart champagne 
bottle. Cut a long slit in the cork before plac- 
ing it in the bottle. Set the bottle in a sauce- 
pan of warm water, simmer one hour and a half, 



LIEBIG S EXTRACT OF BEEF. II 

and strain through a napkin into a goblet. Now 
add a teaspoonfal of finely shredded raw, lean 
beef, let stand a few moments, add a little salt 
and serve. 

Liebig's Extract of Beef.— This and other 
extracts are often recommended by physicians. 

A singular fact in connection with this extract 
is that the extract made in Texas by this firm 
is, in the opinion of some of our leading physi- 
cians, worthless as nutriment, while the extract 
made in South America, by the same company, 
is highly recommended. 

The author, being somewhat surprised that 
there should be a difference, made inquiries and 
learned that to the flesh of every two vacd (fat 
cow) was added a third of the flesh of a segua, 
or mare, in making the extract. These animals 
feed on esportillo, which is a thin, reed-like 
grass, said to be very fattening. The extract 
made in the United States is prepared from beef 
only. 

Is there more nutriment in the flesh of the 
horse than in that of the cow .' 

Mutton Broth. -Although mutton possesses 
a lower degree of nutritive value than beef, it is 
nevertheless one of the most important of ani- 
mal foods, being easily digested. 

Like beef, the neck part of mutton is most 



12 VEAL BROTH. 

appropriate for the making of broth. Trim oii 
the surplus fat from the piece of meat, and to a 
pound of the lean (with bone added) add a 
quart of cold water ; simmer gently for two hours 
strain, and let it become cold. When wanted 
remove every particle of fat. Put a small quan- 
tity of it in a saucepan, and allow it to become- 
quite hot ; salt slightly, and allow a red-pepper 
pod to remain in it for a moment. Have ready 
a small quantity of boiled rice, add it to the 
broth, and let stand a few moments before serv- 
ing* A very small piece of onion is sometimes 
added to the meat when first cooked to destroy 
the peculiar mutton flavor which is so objection- 
able to many patients. 

Veal Broth.— Veal, although less nutritive 
than either beef or mutton, and less digestive, is 
sometimes recommended, owing to its having a 
laxative action. The broth is prepared in a 
similar way to mutton broth. 

Chicken Broth.—" The domestic chicken," 
says Barthalow, " is a most important article of 
food for sick and convalescents. The taste is 
agreeable, the tissues soft and easy of mastica- 
tion and digestion. Spring chickens are more 
tender and delicate than the fully developed 
fowls of four to six months old. Next to the 
chicken in point of digestibility is the domestic 



SCALLOP BROTH. 13 

turkey, and after this the domestic goose and 
duck," Cut up half a chicken into neat pieces ; 
add a quart of cold water and a small piece of 
celery ; cover and boil slowly for two hours. 
Then remove all fat carefully, strain, add salt, 
and serve. If lice is used, boil it with the 
chicken, and add it half an hour before the 
chicken is cooked. 

Scallop Broth.— The peculiar flavor of scal- 
lops is quite atrractive to the convalescent, and 
a broth made from them is nourishing ; but care 
should be exercised in selecting the shell fish. 
To improve their appearance, shippers add 
quantities of salaeratus to the scallops, which has 
the effect of bleaching them and increasing their 
size ; this custom may please the dealers, but not 
consumers. Select medium -sized scallops of a 
natural creamy color, wash them, and cut them 
into small pieces. To a half a pint of these add 
half a pint of warm water and half a pint of 
milk, a "pea" of butter, and a pinch of salt ; 
simmer for twenty minutes ; strain and serve. 

A pint of milk and no water may be used if 
the patient desires it. 



14 OATMEAL GRUEL. 



GRUELS. 



Oatmeal Gruel. — Oatmeal, in any form 
.should not be given to patients who are suffering 
from diarrhceal diseases or of irritable mucous 
membrane. While it is rich in nutriment, it is 
not always a good food, because it is irritating. 

Dr. Mott says that while many are under the 
impression that oatmeal is a true laxative, it is 
not properly so. Sift two ounces of oatmeal. 
Boil a quart and a pint of water, add to it a salt- 
spoonful of salt ; now add gradually the oat- 
meal, stirring constantly while adding the meal. 
Boil for one hour, remove to the back of the 
range until water enough has evaporated to 
make it of the proper consistency ; part milk 
may be used instead of all water. 

This recipe calls for the " old process" mill- 
ing, which requires much longer cooking than 
the new preparations now on the market, many 
of which are advertised as being partly cooked, 
requiring but a few moments' more cooking to 
convert them into the most excellent food. 

Housekeepers, when preparing oatmeal for 
delicate stomachs, should ignore the ten, or even 
twenty-minute, propositions, and cook these 
preparations at least one hour. 



CERE A LINE GRUET.. 1 5 

Cerealine Gruel. -Proceed as for oatmeal 
gruel, and add half a pint of cerealine to a quart 
of boiling water, slightly salted. Boil for half 
an hour, and serve with a little sugar. All milk 
may be used, if desired. 

Rice Gruel. — !Mix together one tablespoonfiil 
of rice- floor, a saltspoonful of salt, and a small 
cup of cold water. Add the contents of the 
cup to a pint of boiling water, and boil for 
twenty minutes. Sugar should be served sep- 
arately, and, when too thick, add milk until of 
the proper consistency. 

Arrow-Root Gruel.— Take one tablespoon- 
ful of arrow- root, a pinch of salt, and half a gill 
of cold water, stir into half a pint of boiling 
water, and boil for fifteen minutes. 

Barley Gruel.— Take two tablespoonfuls of 
pearl barley washed in warm water. To a 
quart and half a pint of cold water add a heap- 
ing saltspoonful of salt and the washed barley. 
Boil for three quarters of an hour ; strain ; add a 
cake of cut sugar to each gobletful, and twist 
over the glass a piece of lemon- peel, the oil of 
which gives a pleasant flavor. 

Barley Water.— Wash one ounce of pearl 
barley in cold water. Drain off the water, and 
add to a quart and a pint of boiling water the 
barley, a piece of lemon- peel, and sugar enough 



l6 RICE WATER. 

to be just perceptible to the taste ; simmer on 
back ot range until reduced one hall, and serve 
unstrained. Other harmless flavoring ingredi- 
ents may be used instead of the lemon. 

Rice Water.— To a quart and a pint of cold 
water add two ounces of well-washed rice ; salt 
slightly, and add two cakes of sugar. Boil in 
the double saucepan until the rice has dissolved. 
Flavor with lemon-peel or stick cinnamon. 

A palatable jelly is made by straining the 
liquid, and flavoring it with lemon, wine, or 
brandy, then poured into moulds and placed on 
ice. 

Alcohol, in any form, should not be allowed 
patients except under medical advice. 



TOAST. 17 



TOAST. 



Toast is very palatable and digestible when 
properly prepared. ]»klany seem to think that 
they have made toast when they brown the out- 
side of a slice of bread. Have they ? 

The object in making toast is to evaporate all 
moisture from the bread, and holding a slice 
over the fire to singe does not accomplish this ; 
it only warms the moisture, making the inside 
of the bread doughy and decidedly indigestible. 
The true way of preparing it is to cut the bread 
into slices a quarter of an inch thick, trim off 
all crust, put the slices in a pan or plate, place 
them in the oven — which must not be too hot — 
take them out when a delicate brown, and butter 
at once. 

For my own use I dry all home-made bread 
in this manner. 

Dry Toast should be served within the folds 
of a napkin if you wish to keep it hot ; toast- 
racks allow the heat to escape, and they are not 
recommended. 

Dip Toast.— Prepare the toast as above 
directed ; dip the edges into hot water quickly, 
and butter at once. This is also called water 
toast. 



l8 -MILK TOAST. 

Milk Toast.— Wet the pan to be used with 
cold water, which prevents burning. Melt an 
ounce of lloured butter ; whisk into it a pint of 
hot milk ; add a little salt ; simmer. Prepare 
four slices of toast ; put them in a deep dish 
one at a time ; pour a little of the milk over 
each, and over the last one pour the remainder 
of the milk. 

Anchovy Toast.— The best way to prepare 
this appetizing- dish is as follows : Toast the 
bread and trim it neatly, and place it near the 
range to keep warm ; next prepare a " dip," as 
for ordinary cream toast ; spread a thin layer of 
anchovy paste on each slice of bread ; place in 
a hot, deep dish ; pour the prepared cream over 
them, and serve. 

Clam Toast. — Chop up two dozen small 
clams into fine pieces ; simmer for thirty min- 
utes in hot water enough to cover them. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs ; add a little cayenne 
and a gill of warmed milk ; dissolve half a tea- 
spoonful of flour in a little cold milk ; simmer 
all together ; pour over buttered toast, and 
serve. 

Marrow-bone Toast.— Procure two beef 
shin-bones about six to eight inches long ; cover 
them with dough, and wrap them in muslin ; 
pour hot water enough to cover them, and boil 



OYSTER TOAST 



TO 



for an hour and a half. Remove cloth and 
dough ; shake or draw out the marrow with a 
long-handled fork upon slices of hot toast. 
Add salt, cayenne, and, if convenient, a litde 
chopped celer}', and serve. 

Oyster Toast.— Select fifteen plump oys- 
ters ; chop them fine, and add salt, pepper, and 
a suspicion of nutmeg. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with a gill of cream ; whisk this into 
the simmering oysters. When set, pour the 
v.hole over slices of buttered toast. 

Salmon Toast.— It very often occurs that a 
can of salmon is not all used at a meal, and yet 
there is not quite enough for another meal with- 
out other dishes or ingredients added to it. 
Should this occur, mince the salmon, heat, and 
season it and serve it on toast. A poached 
egg added to it is quite acceptable. 

Tongue Toast.— A very nice dish is pre- 
pared from cold boiled or potted tongue. Slice 
the tongue, and cut each slice into small, fine 
pieces ; heat it in a pan with a little butter. To 
prevent burning, moisten with warm water or 
clear soup ; add salt and pepper ; stir into it 
two beaten eggs. When set, arrange neatly on 
toast. 

Dainty bits of roast game, fowl, etc., minced, 
warmed over, and served on toast are excellent. 



20 FKAPPE CHAMPAGNE. 



DIET DRINKS. 



Frappe Champagne renders important ser- 
vice in irritable states of the stomach, especially 
in sea-sickness, vomiting of pregnancy, yellow- 
fever, cholera morbus, and cholera. To pro- 
dwct/rappe champagne quickly, proceed as fol- 
lows : Put into a metal wine-cooler, or any 
other metal receptacle, a bottle of dry cham- 
pagne, surround it with alternate layers of rock 
salt and cracked ice, place the cooler on the hoi 
range, and the rapid melting of the ice will so- 
lidify the wine in five minutes ; if allowed to re- 
main a longer period the wine will become solid, 
and refuse to leave its glassy prison. 

When we take into consideration the fact that 
by the old method of revolving the wine in its 
icy walls, a period of thirty minutes is required 
to frappe, it, the above phenomenal method 
of producing the desired result will be appre- 
ciated. 

Sparkling wines, as a rule, are more seda- 
tive to the stomach, and more intoxicating 
relatively to their alcoholic strength than still 
wines. 

Sweet champagnes contain a vast quantity of 
unappropriated sugar. When such wines are 



WINE WHEY. 21 

used they produce acid fermentation, and acidity 
with headache quite naturally follows. 

Agents of sweet champagnes wear out their 
vocal chords telling their patrons to serve wines 
as cold as possible ; in this way the sugar is not 
easily detected, and a large sale of particular 
brands is the result. But let me warn my read 
ers who use champagne that a fine dry cham- 
pagne is almost ruined by the low temperature 
at which it is usually served at restaurants, re- 
ceptions, etc. A very cold champagne is a dan- 
gerous tipple for even a healthy stomach, espe- 
cially near bedtime. 

Wine Whey.— Boil a pint of sweet milk and 
add half a gill of sherry. Let it simmer for 
fifteen minutes, skim off the curd, add a gill of 
sherry, and remove curd as it rises. Straining 
may be necessary to remove the curd entirely. 
Sweeten. 

Eggnog.— Scald half a pint of milk ; when 
cold add one Qgg well beaten, two teaspoonfuls 
of sugar, and a tablespoonful of choice brandy. 
Shake or beat the mixture with a fork. This 
formula is only intended for invalids, and is not 
the recipe used in c^/es. 

Sherry and Egg.— Beat up one egg thor- 
oughly, add a teaspoonful of sugar, and a wine 
glass full of dry sherry. 



(JURRAiM-JELLY WATER. 



FRUIT DRINKS. 

Currant-Jelly Water. -Dissolve a teaspoon- 
ful of currant- jelly in a goblet of cold water, 
and add one cake of cut sugar. 

Currant Water.— Simmer gently for ten 
minutes a pint of fresh-picked currants in a 
quart of water, add a heaping tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, and, when cold, strain. There 
is a litde economy in adding the sugar after the 
juice is strained. 

" Out upon the nonsense of taking medicine 
and nostrums during the currant season ! Let 
it be taught at theological seminaries that the 
currant is a * means of grace. ' It is a correc- 
tive, and that is what average humanity most 
needs."— ^. P. Roe, in " The Home Acrer 

Apple Water.— ]\Iash two baked apples with 
a fork, and pour over them a pint of boiling 
NV'ater ; when cool strain and sweeten to taste. 

A Glass of Cold Water in the morning be- 
fore breakfast will, in many persons, produce 
the same effect as mineral waters. 



SKIMMED MILK. 



MILK. 



Skimmed Milk.— In cases of intestinal dis- 
orders skimmed milk is better than pure milk, 
and in cases of disease, when fats must be omit- 
ted, it is very useful. 

The milk should stand twenty-four hours in 
a cool place, and all the cream which has risen 
should be carefully skimmed off. 

Buttermilk.— The author, who is an inveter- 
ate smoker, has for years drank buttermilk be- 
fore retiring, and during the day whenever it can 
be obtained. He is convinced that it neutral- 
izes the effects of the nicotine from the tobacco. 
Tho. Journal of Health says : " Buttermilk is ex- 
cellent for weak or delicate stomachs, and far 
better as a dinner drink than coffee, tea, or 
water, and, unlike them, does not retard, but 
rather aids, digestion. A celebrated physician 
once said that if every one knew the value of 
buttermilk as a drink, it would be more freely 
partaken of by persons who drink so excessively 
of other beverages ; and, further, compared its 
effects upon the system to the clearing out of a 
cook-stove that has been clogged up with ashes 
that have sifted through, filling up ever}* crevice 
and crack, saying that the human system is like 



24 MILK. 

the stove, and collects and gathers refuse matter 
that can in no way be exterminated from the 
system so effectually as by drinking buttermilk. 
It is also a specific remedy for indigestion, 
soothes and quiets the nerves, and is very som- 
nolent to those who are troubled with sleepless- 
ness. 

" Every one who values good health should 
drink buttermilk every day in warm weather, 
and let tea, coffee, and water alone. For the 
benefit of those who are not already aware of it, 
I may add that in the churning the first process 
of digestion is gone through, making it one of 
the easiest and quickest of all things to digest. 
It makes gastric juice, and contains properties 
that readily assimilate with it, with little or no 
wear upon the digestive organs." 

Milk, pure and simple, is a natural food, and 
should enter into the diet of adults as well as 
children. Lime-water is usually added to milk 
when the acidity of the stomach causes the latter 
to be rejected. When lime water is not obtain- 
able, the thorough beating of the milk with a 
fork will break the oily particles of the milk, 
causing it to digest more rapidly. 

A large glass of milk should not be given to 
children or persons of weak stomachs, for they 
are apt to use it immoderately. It should be 



FRUITS AS FOOD AND MEDICINE. 25 

drunk in small mouthfuls, and as slowly as pos- 
sible. 

The quaffing of a glass of cold milk on a hot 
day, without stopping to take breath, is a very 
dangerous proceeding. 



FRUITS AS FOOD AND MEDICINE. 

Of all the fruits with which we are blessed, the 
peach is the most delicious and digestible. 
There is nothing more palatable, wholesome, 
and medicinal than good ripe peaches. They 
should be ripe, but not over-ripe and half- 
rotten ; and of this kind they may make a part 
of either meal, or be eaten between meals ; but 
it is better to make them part of the regular 
meals. It is a mistaken idea that no fruit should 
be eaten at breakfast. It would be far better if 
our people would eat less bacon and grease at 
breakfast and more frui't. In the morning there 
is an acrid state of the secretions, and nothing 
is so well calculated to correct this as cooling 
sub-acid fruits, such as peaches, apples, etc. 
Still, some of us have been taught that eating 



26 FRUITS AS FOOD AND MEDICINE. 

fruit before breakfast is highly dangerous. 
However the idea originated, it is certainly a 
great error, contrary to both reason and fact. 

The apple is one of the best of fruits. Baked 
or stewed apples will generally agree with the 
most delicate stomach, and are excellent medi- 
cine in many cases of sickness. Green or half- 
ripe apples stewed and sweetened are pleasant to 
the taste, cooling, nourishing, and laxative, far 
superior, in many cases, to the abominable doses 
of salts and oil usually given in fever and other 
diseases. Raw apples and dried apples stewed 
are better for constipation than liver pills. 

Oranges are very acceptable to most stomachs, 
having all the advantages of the acid alluded 
to ; but the orange juice alone should be taken, 
rejecting the pulp. 

The same may be said of lemons, pomegran- 
ates, and all that class. Lemonade is the best 
drink in fevers, and, when thickened with sugar, 
is better- than syrup of squills and other nau- 
seous medicines in many cases of cough. 

Tomatoes act on the liver and bowels, and are 
much more pleasant and safe than blue pills 
and "liver regulators." The juice should be 
used alone, rejecting the skins. 

The small seeded fruits, such as blackberries, 
figs, raspberries, currants, and strawberries, mav 



EATING BEFORE SLEEPING. 27 

be classed among the best foods and medicines. 
The sugar in them is nutritious, the acid is 
cooling and purifying, and the seeds are laxative. 
We would be much the gainers if we would 
look more to our orchards and gardens for our 
medicines, and less to our drug-stores. To cure 
fever or act on the kidneys, no febrifuge or diu- 
retic is superior to watermelon, which may, 
with very few exceptions, be taken in sickness 
and health in almost unlimited quantities, not 
only without injury, but with positive benefit. 
But in using them, the water or juice should be 
taken, excluding the pulp, and the melon should 
be fresh and ripe, but not over-ripe or stale. — 
Family Doctor. 



EATING BEFORE SLEEPING. 

A general impression prevails that to eat be- 
fore going to bed is an injurious and altogether 
an unwise habit. ]\Iuch depends on the indi- 
vidual habits of persons ; in the case of one ac- 
customed to dine at six o'clock, and wiiose 
hour for retiring is nine o'clock, we must admit 
it would be unwise to partake of food before 



28 RAW OYSTERS. 

sleep. On the other hand, the six-o'clock dinei, 
whose hour for retiring is from midnight to 
3 A.M., and whose rising hour is from 8 to ii 
A.M., must eat before going to bed if he wishes 
to avoid doctors' bills and sleeplessness. The 
interval between meals is decidedly too long a 
period for fasting. Empty stomachs have much 
to do with insomnia and kindred diseases so 
prevalent among writers and other brain-work- 
ers. The languid, half-rested feeling on rising, 
and the cross, irritable peevishness of many 
when spoken to about breakfast are other symp- 
toms of altogether too long a period of fasting. 
The question of what food is the most suitable 
to eat before going to bed naturally arises. 
This must be decided by circumstances. One 
who has spent the evening in dancing or other 
exercise, naturally requires something more sub- 
stantial than one who has spent the evening in a 
quiet manner. 

Raw Oysters thoroughly masticated are easily 
digested, although weak stomachs should avoid 
condiments with them, and if the oysters are 
large, the ligament or muscle should be re- 
moved. 

Oyster Broth, stew, or soup when prepared 
with milk is acceptable at late suppers ; but the 
pernicious habit o( many late diners of drinking 



PIGS FEET. 29 

cold ale and beer with cooked oysters, is one 
which the author strongly deprecates. 

Pigs' Feet when boiled until tender, then 
nicely broiled over a charcoal fire, are quite di- 
gestible, and, should Bass's ale be served with 
them, see to it that it has not been on ice, and 
is free from all evidence of carbonic-acid gas, 
which is found in the " white label " bottling of 
Bass, making this particular brand objectionable 
for night drinking. 

Stewed Tripe with Oysters may be eaten 
at night, and a glass of very light Moselle wine 
— either still or sparkling — may be served with it. 

Boiled Sweetbreads cut into slices and 
warmed up in a light sauce, or served on toast 
en brochette, are not apt to prevent sleep, or pro- 
duce indigestion. 

Poached Eggs are easily digested, but the 
soggy toast usually served with them is some- 
thing to avoid. 

Boiled Calf's Head cut into pieces as large 
as an oyster, then fried as one would fry dough- 
nuts, and served with a sauce tartare, is a favorite 
night dish of the author, as is also shad-roe 
stewed in cream. 

Cold Roast Beef, mutton, lamb, venison, or 
poultry, served with a dainty salad of water- 
cress, or escarale, and a glass of generous claret, 



3© HAMBURG STEAK. 

is not apt to be despised by one who sits up at 
night writing. 

A dainty surprise for the night-worker would 
be a plate of sandwiches made from thin slices 
of the breast of a cold roast canvas-back duck. 
Crisp celery may accompany the dish. Sand- 
wiches made of cold roast beef and venison are 
very nice. 

Hamburg Steak when reauced to a pulp, 
and served raw, or but slightly singed to give it 
the appearance of being cooked, is most easily 
digested. A raw or slightly poached egg may 
be served with it. 

Raw Meat is invariably recommended in 
cases of debility when an easily digested nutri- 
ment is required. A method of treating diarrhcea, 
long practised in Russia, consists in the use of 
raw meat, beaten in a mortar until all traces of 
fibre disappear. It is then seasoned to taste, 
and served in the form of sandwich. Fruit jelly 
is sometimes added to disguise the flavor of the 
meat. 

Venison Steak cooked in a chafing-dish, 
or nicely broiled over a charcoal fire, is unques- 
tionably one of the best of meats to eat late at 
night. While it does not possess the same 
nutritive value found in beef, it is more easily 
and quickly digested. 



CALF S-FOOT JELLY. 3 1 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



My only serious objection to late suppers is 
that, unless caution is exercised, one is apt to 
disarrange the stomach by drinking too much 
cold liquid, thereby preventing the food from 
digesting. A Welsh rarebit, in itself, is not so 
terrible a nightmare-producer as it has been often 
painted ; but when washed down with iced 
drinks it becomes a leathery mass of the most 
indigestible character. 

Deviled bones, chickens, kidneys, etc., when 
eaten late at night are apt to convince one who 
does not possess the digestive powers of an 
ostrich, that the name ' * Deviled ' ' is peculiarly 
appropriate ; in fact, they are dyspepsia-breed- 
ing companions to fried oysters, iced tea, and 
heavy salads. 

In conclusion I will state that each individual 
must be his own adviser as to what should be 
eaten late at night ; he should know by experi- 
ence what dishes agree with him, and not rely 
upon dogmatic health theories, which are at best 
confusing to the very people they are intended 
to benefit. 

Calf s-foot Jelly.— The trouble and expense 
of preparing calf s-foot jelly at home is too 



^2 THE HOT-WATER CURE 

great. It is therefore advisable to purchase it 
from the grocer or from caterers. 

The Hot-Water Cure.— Much has been 
written for and against this new remedial agent, 
and, in the opinion of the author, the ** fors" 
have the best of it. A goblet of hot water in the 
morning is beneficial to those who dine late the 
night before. Care must be exercised that the 
water is drawn fresh from the faucet, l^rought to 
boiling point, then served. 

Many are apt to serve hot water that has stood 
on the range over-night, the effect of which is 
one of nausea. 



PRACTICAL CARVING 



PREFACE. 

From my earliest recollection, I was taught 
to consider a thorough knowledge of the art of 
carving an important part of my education ; and 
the memories of my early struggles to master the 
art are vividly before me. 

The patience that was exhausted upon me, 
while training my youthful hands to hold the 
knife properly, was certainly not appreciated by 
me at the time. 

I could not see why it was important that 
my thumb, instead of the forefinger, should be 
placed on the back of the knife, when the latter 
way seemed more easy. Neither did I realize 
it to be an accomplishment to be able to carve 
with the left hand equally as well as with the 
right. 

5 



6 PREFACE. 

Now that I have arrived at a more niature 
age, I see and appreciate the importance of 
these things that seemed but trifles to me when 
I was young. I had often heard my father say 
that a young man's education was incomplete 
without a knowledge of carving, and his sons 
had every reason to believe he was serious in 
what he said. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

THE CARVING-KNIFE . . 9 

TO STAND OR SIT WHILE CARVING 11 

BEEF. 

Roast Ribs of Beef. How to Hold 
THE Knife . . . . . 12 

Sirloin of Beef 13 

Tenderloin of Beef . . . 14 
Chuck- RIB Roast . . . -14 
Miscellaneous Roasting Pieces . 14 
Porter-house Steak . . . .14 
Beef Tongue 15 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Leg of Mutton 16 

Shoulder of Mutton . . . 16 

Saddle of Mutton . . . • 17 

Saddle of Lamb . . . . 18 

Leg of Lamb 18 

Fore-quarter of Lamb . . . 19 
Lamb's Tongue , . . . -19 



8 



CONTENTS. 



VEAL. 

Leg of Veal 
Fillet of Veal 
Shoulder of Veal 
Loin of Veal . 
Calf's Tongue 

PORK. 
Sucking Pig 
Leg of Pork 
Ham 



POULTRY AND GAME. 
Domestic Duck .... 
Goose 

Canvas- back Duck 
Red- HEAD Duck 

Teal Duck 

Spring Chicken. How to Select 

HOW to Carve 
Boiled Capon .... 
Roast Turkey .... 

Squab 

English Pheasant . 

Prairie Chicken .... 

FISH 



SERVING SAUCES WITH MEATS 
REMARKS ON BONING MEAT 



and 



20 

20 

21 
21 

22 

22 
22 
23 

24 

25 
26 

27 
27 

27 
28 

29 
30 
31 
31 

32 

33 
33 



PRACTICAL CARVING. 



THE CARVING-KNIFE. 

In the stone age, when the savage tried his 
best to carve with a dull stone knife, he doubtless 
swore mentally ; and while we have advanced 
to a marked degree beyond the savage and his 
food, and his implements for dividing that food, 
his barbaric trait of mental swearing is still with 
us, and will probably remain with us until the 
end of time, or until our servants realize that 
the carving-knife v/as not a tool originally in- 
tended by the head of the family for dissecting 
kindling-wood or peeling potatoes. 

Is there any thing more exasperating to a 
carver, at the announcement of dinner, than to 
find that his pet knife, which had been shari>ened 
by an expert the day before, had that very day 
been used by some one to cut wire or equally 
hard substance ? 

9 



lO KNIFE GRINDING. 

Flashes of wit and humor may abound until 
the moment of carving arrives, and the jolHest 
family party that ever gathered around the ma- 
hogany will be enveloped in gloom by the efforts 
of a carver at work with a dull knife. 

The grim, contorted face plainly indicates his 
feelings of discomfort and mental suffering. To 
you who are responsible for that dull knife, we 
would say, do you imagine the carver enjoys his 
task, or will enjoy his dinner? 

Who does not think, with us, that a dull knife 
is a thing of terror? It certainly breeds dys- 
pepsia ; it makes delicious viands unsavory ; and 
many a family quarrel has emanated from it. 

After the carving-tools have been used, they 
should be thoroughly cleaned, and the knives 
should be sharpened and well rubbed with a 
woollen cloth on which a Httle olive oil has been 
poured, when they should be wrapped in chamois 
and put away under lock and key. 

Knife Grinding. — Hold the knife perfectly 
flat against the stone, so that the blade evenly 
traverses the stone from point to handle. In 
no other way will the knife retain its edge. To 
spoil the knife completely, put a rounding edge 
on the knife. 

To Steel the Knife. — The instructions 
issued by Curley Brothers for sharpening a carv- 



TO STAND OR SIT WHILE CARVING. II 

ing-knife are so complete, that we take the liberty 
of embodying them in this work. 

" A carver must be held at an angle of twenty 
to twenty-five degrees on the steel. 

" Be careful to have the angle same on both 
sides, so as to sharpen instead of dulling the knife. 

" Draw it on the steel from heel to point against 
the edge ; only a very slight pressure required." 



TO STAND OR SIT WHILE CARVING. 

The height of chair and table has much to do 
with the question, To stand or sit while carving. 

It is exceedingly awkward to carve when 
sitting in a low chair before a high table. 

In this position one cannot divide the parts in 
neat and appetizing forms. Small dishes such as 
steaks, and all birds, from the cock-sparrow to 
the princely canvas-back, are of course carved 
sitting. 

The carver's chair should be cushioned enough 
to bring the elbow of the carver almost on a line 
with the table. 

It is a good rule to follow, that the seat of the 
carver's chair should not be more than twelve 
inches below the level of the table, as a lower 
seat forces the arms into an unskilful position. 



12 ROAST RIBS OF BEEF. 



BEEF. 



Roast Ribs of Beef. How to hold the 
Knife. — There are two ways of carving roast 
beef, and the rules will equally apply to the rib 
roast or the sirloin roast. 

First, Place the ribs on the platter with the 
thickest part towards you, and with the crisp, 
brown, fat surface up ; and trim off all burnt 
pieces, and all the small pieces of backbone 
overlooked by the dealer. Insert the fork in 
the centre of the joint, midway between the 
ends and right and left sides ; cut off two slices 
from the right-hand side, and reserve them for 
those who desire "well-done" beef. Now run 
the point of the knife along the whole length 
of the rib, parallel with it, and immediately next 
to it, and make a cut an inch deep over the 
rib. Hold the knife gracefully, but firmly, and 
with thianb extended over the back of the knife, 
instead of the forefinger, and cut thin slices down 
to the bone, when they will fall on the platter 
in neat, whole shoes. 

With the finger extended over the back of the 
knife, you do not have the same control over 
the knife as when the thumb is extended ; and 



SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 1 3 

you cannot, therefore, cut a slice that will be 
of equal thickness throughout. When carving 
small pieces of meat, game, etc., this rule is not 
imperative. 

Secojid, Place the meat on the platter, as de- 
scribed in the foregoing, and trim it ; turn it on 
end, with the thickest part towards you, and the 
crisp, brown skin, or rather fat., to your right. 
Insert the fork between the ribs, which are now 
to the left, and carve towards the left. The 
object gained in this mode of carving is that 
the juices remain in the meat instead of running 
out and on to the platter ; and in this way the 
slices contain their full quota of juice, and are 
therefore more desirable. 

Sirloin of Beef. — This joint of beef may 
be place'd on the platter after the modes de- 
scribed in "roast beef." The thickest end is 
placed towards you, and the black and burnt 
outside neatly trimmed. Then run the point 
of the knife along the flat bone at the right, and 
cut in about an inch deep ; then cut slices from 
the right side. Should the flank be too large, 
it is best and more economical to cut it off in 
one piece. The tenderloin, when not intended 
to be served cold, should be cut out, and each 
guest receive a small slice of it in addition to 
the sirloin. They appreciate tenderloin, and 
your servants might not. 



14 TENDERLOIN OF BEEF. 

Tenderloin of Beef. — Request the dealer 
to remove the thin membraneous sack envelop- 
ing the meat, and either lard the latter by the aid 
of a larding needle, or cover it with a long thin 
piece of larding pork. When cooked, place it 
on the platter, and carve across the loin, begin- 
ning at the thickest end, which should be to the 
right. The slices should be about twice as thick 
as slices of roast beef. A good gravy or sauce 
should accompany tenderloin, as it is a some- 
what dry meat, having but little flavor of its own, 
tenderness being its only recommendation. 

Chuck-rib Roast. — Notwithstanding the 
fact that this piece of beef is much cheaper than 
other rib cuts, it is usually avoided by house- 
keepers, who find it troublesome and unsatis- 
factory to carve. Remove the blade bone 
before roasting. After roasting, cut the piece 
of shoulder meat free from the thick, juicy part, 
place it on a separate plate, and carve it across 
the grain ; serve a slice of it with each slice of the 
choice part ; and, by pouring over it a little of 
the " dish gravy," it becomes quite presentable. 

Miscellaneous Roasting Pieces of 
Beef, such as the rump, aitchbone, round, and 
rolled meat, should be carved across the grain. 

Porter-house Steak. — Trim off all sur- 
plus fat, which is apt to burn while cooking, and 



BEEF TONGUE. I 5 

make an unnecessary amount of smoke. Ex- 
amine the thickest end, and carefully remove 
minute particles of bone which may adhere to the 
steak and produce inflammation of the intestines, 
when swallowed. Do not remove the bone which 
separates the sirloin from the tenderloin, as it 
keeps the steak in shape ; after broiling the steak, 
add to it a walnut of the best table butter, salt, 
and white pepper ; place it on the table, and sepa- 
rate both pieces of meat from the bone. Divide 
the tenderloin into as many pieces as there are 
guests. Cut the sirloin into strips an inch and 
a half wide, and across the grain, and serve to 
each guest a piece of each. 

Beef Tongue. — From an economical point 
of view, it is best to ser\'e the tip of the tongue 
first, ^LS it will dry up quickly and become in- 
digestible if allowed to stand a few days. Trim 
off the ragged, thick end, and remove the little 
bones found therein ; cut a two-inch piece from 
the tip of the tongue, and slice it as thin as 
possible. 



1 6 LEG OP MUTTON. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Leg of Mutton. — The leading silversmiths 
make a shank-holder which is more useful to 
the carver of a leg of mutton than the fork ; and, 
when one of these is not at hand, white paper 
wrapped around the bone may be substituted. 
Cut from outer side of the leg of mutton, and 
lengthwise of the leg, a good-sized slice ; this 
prevents the leg from moving about the dish 
whenever touched, and brings the inner or thick- 
est part of the mutton conveniently before the 
carver. Hold the shank firmly, and cut into 
the centre of the leg to the bone. The first 
two slices should be slightly wedge-shaped, and 
should be served to those who really appreciate 
the " Pope's eye " of mutton. Slice from the 
thickest part before carving from the lower part, 
and with each slice a thin slice of fat should be 
served. 

The wise carver serves the toothsome bit 
known as the knuckle to himself. We think he 
deserves this nugget of sweetness. 

Shoulder of Mutton. — The blade is a 
"bone of contention" to the beginner in carv- 
ing. Its mission seems to be the trying of one's 



SADDLE OF MUTTON. If 

patience, and the destruction of the carver's 
appetite. I advise my readers, who cannot suc- 
cessfully carve this joint, to ask the butcher to 
give them a few lessons in boning it ; after which 
they will have little trouble to carve it, knowing 
the location of the bones. Turn the shoulder 
on its edge, with the outside or upper part to- 
wards you, and cut slices from the top edge; 
the first slices which are cut from the top are 
nearly all fat, and are placed one side, and 
pieces of them served with the lean. Now cut 
slices from the part above the knuckle, and 
down to it, until the bones are exposed. Then 
place the joint flat on the dish, and slice from 
both sides of the blade-bone ridge ; then remove 
the blade-bone, and cut the remainder of the 
joint across the grain. 

Saddle of Mutton. — Trim off all surplus 
flank and fat, as it is only in the carver's way, 
and seldom, if ever, eaten by the guests. Press 
the sides well in, and wind a string around the 
joint, to hold it in good form. After roasting, 
place it on the table, with the tail end to the left. 

As to how the joint should be carved, is a 
question decided by the number of guests and 
the host's idea of economy. The economical 
host will carve thus : Make a long deep cut 
parallel with the backbone, and cut away one 



1 8 SADDLE OF LAMB. 

side of the loin in one whole piece, but let it 
remain in place, and cut slices across the grain, 
beginning at the right. Carve the other side of 
the loin in the same manner. If the tenderloin 
is wanted, turn the joint, and cut it out entire. 

When the question of economy " has nothing 
to do with the case," the mode of car\dng is as 
follows : Make a deep cut the whole length, 
and parallel with the backbone, and cut long, 
even one-eighth-inch slices with the grain ; then 
divide each slice into pieces not over five inches 
long. The carving must be done quickly, as 
the fat cools rapidly, in which condition it cloys 
on the palate. 

Saddle of Lamb. — This joint is the choi- 
cest of spring meats. It comes to us at a season 
of the year when game of all kinds is in poor 
condition (even if allowed to be sold), and for 
private dinner parties we know of no dish that 
equals it. The rules for carving it are the same 
as those for carving the loin of mutton. 

Leg of Lamb. — By this term we mean a 
leg having the loin attached, and called a hind- 
quarter, which is the cut generally sold in New 
York. When the family is small, cut off the 
loin and use it for chops, and roast the leg, which 
is carved much the same as a leg of mutton. 
It being very tender, one part of it is no more 



FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. 1 9 

choice than another; and the only care to be 
exercised is to keep in mind that cold lamb is 
the daintiest of cold meats. The joint should 
therefore be carved in as neat a manner as 
possible, to have a presentable cold joint for the 
following meal. 

Fore-Quarter of Lamb. — From the fore- 
quarter of lamb only do we obtain those delight- 
ful little chops, and a few of them should in- 
variably be cut from the joint before it is roasted. 
The breast, or brisket, is another part of the 
joint from which an excellent dish is made. 

After roasting, place the joint on the platter, 
and with the breast towards you. The first cut 
should be the removal of the shoulder, with the 
blade-bone attached ; and each guest should 
receive a dainty rib, a piece of the brisket, or, if 
preferred, a slice from the shoulder. 

Lamb's Tongue. — These tidbits are in- 
variably served whole ; but they look more 
appetizing when cut in two lengthwise, and each 
half temptingly arranged on a crisp leaf of 
lettuce, with quarters of lemon on the sides 
of the dish. 



aO LEG OF VEAL. 



VEAL. 



Leg of Veal. — Aside from the excellent 
soups and sauces made from veal, the toothsome 
kidney, delicious sweetbreads, and the head, 
Americans are not, as a class, fond of veal ; and 
a whole leg of veal is seldom seen upon their 
tables. It is a profitable joint, however, for 
large families, and from it may be cut the cutlets 
for the cooking of which the Germans hold the 
secret. After the leg is cooked, delightful 
croquettes may be made from that which is left 
after dinner. The carving of a leg of veal is a 
simple matter, after the hip-bone has been 
removed, which should be done before the leg 
is cooked. Place the leg on a large platter, 
the thicker end to the right, and the shank to the 
left. Carve slices from the thickest side of 
the leg-bone first, and then from the other side, 
to keep the face of the joint as even as possible. 

I have seen carvers carve this joint the same 
as recommended for the carving of a leg of 
mutton ; but too much waste was the usual 
result. 

Fillet of Veal is a long strip of veal cut 
from the leg. It is the best part of the leg, in 



SHOULDER OF VEAL. 21 

fact. This is larded with either bacon or salt 
pork, and cooked and served the same as fillet 
of beef. To carve, place the thickest end to 
the right, and cut across the grain. 

Shoulder of Veal. — This joint being much 
larger than a shoulder of mutton, I have found 
it more convenient to cut off the fore-leg and 
the blade from the ribs, which, if the breast or 
brisket is not removed, will be too long. They 
should be chopped in two before being cooked. 

When the butcher neglects to separate the 
ribs with the cleaver, cut the meat clean from 
the bone, and save the bones for soup meat. If 
instinct will not tell the carver which way to 
carve the meat after it is cut from the bone, 
books cannot. 

Loin of Veal. — A loin of veal is that part 
of the animal between the hip-bone and ribs. 
It covers the tenderloin and kidneys, and does 
not have ribs as declared in a recent publica- 
tion. 

To carve, place the joint with the thickest 
part towards you. Make one long cut along the 
backbone, separate meat from bone entirely, 
and send the bone from the table. Carve the 
meat across the grain, from flank to loin. 

A small loin of veal should have the back- 
bone separated into three-quarter-inch pieces. 



2 2 calf's tongue. 

When carved, a piece of bone will be attached 
to each piece of meat. 

Calf's Tongue, either fresh or pickled, 
should be cut in three pieces, lengthwise. 



PORK. 

Sucking Pig. — This is one of the easiest 
dishes to carve ; and yet, out of two hundred 
gentlemen who were on a picnic, but one of 
them felt competent to carve a roast pig. Send 
the pig to table whole, with the head to the 
right-hand, and tail to the left-hand side. First 
cut off the head, and split it in two. SpHt the 
body down the back, and place the parts on 
the dish, crackhng side up. 

Cut off the fore-legs, with blade attached ; 
next cut off the hind-quarters, and divide the 
ribs, arranging the meat as neatly as possible on 
the dish. Serve a little stuffing to each guest. 

A dish of small baked apples is more present- 
able than apple sauce. 

Leg of Pork. — This is the only leg of a 
domestic animal which I think is improved by 
boning and stuffing. 

Select a leg weighing not over five pounds, 
stuff it, and score the rind in diamonds ; place it 



TO CARVE A HAM. 23 

in a pan, and dredge it with salt ; place a papei 
over it to prevent the crackling from burning ; 
let this remain for half an hour, then remove, 
and cook the joint for one and a half hours 
longer in a not too hot oven. 

One word to those who advocate basting this 
joint. When the fire is too hot, the rind is 
very apt to burn, and then it may be shghtly 
basted ; but otherwise do not baste it, if you 
love crisp crackling. Should the joint receive 
the amount of basting recommended by some 
writers, a gummy rind will be the result, which 
nothing short of the stomach of an ostrich could 
digest. 

To carve a Ham. — Much depends on how 
the ham is to be used. A family desiring fried 
or broiled ham should split the ham lengthwise, 
and then cut thin, even slices across the grain. 
The half with the bone in it may be boiled or 
baked, if the family is a small one. When a 
whole ham appears on the table, the cook should 
see to it that its appearance is improved as much 
as possible. It should be neatly trimmed round 
the edges, and the fat should be free from rust. 
The rind, if left on, should be scalloped at the 
broad end in a neat manner. To carve a whole 
ham, make an incision in the thickest part of 
the ham down to the bone, and work towards 



24 THE DOMESTIC DUCK. 

the large end. The knife used for carving a 
ham should be very thin and very sharp, or the 
shces will be uneven, — a very objectionable 
feature. 



rOULTRY AND GAME. 

The Domestic Duck. — The novice in 
carving quickly discovers that the domestic duck 
is the most exasperating fowl he has to contend 
with. 

Twist the wings under the duck, and truss the 
legs close to the body and under the vent. In 
this way they are out of the way. 

After roasting, place it on the platter, with the 
tail towards you, and the head from you. 

The usual instructions are to " insert the fork 
firmly across the ridge of the .breast ; " but, when 
this is done, the tines make two unsightly grooves 
in four slices of the best part of the duck (two 
on each side of the ridge). 

The author finds it easier to insert the fork in 
the left side, close down to the backbone, the 
ends of the tines penetrating the back to secure 
a firm hold. 

First, cut three thin slices from the right side 
of the breast, holding the knife almost flat 
against the breast. Now cut off the wing, which 



TO CARVE A GOOSE. 25 

is only in the way, and contains "poor pickin's." 
Continue carving the breast until the wish-bone 
prevents further progress ; then carve the other 
side in the same manner. The carver may 
change the position of the fork if he desires, 
but old carvers do not do so. After carving the 
breast, and having removed the wings, separate 
the wish-bone, or merry-thought, from the 
breast-bone ; free it from the shoulders, which 
is a somewhat troublesome operation for begin- 
ners. The legs may be removed, if there is not 
breast enough for all ; but they are not a 
particularly dainty cut, and most carvers leave 
them for the servants. 

The best rule for the inexperienced carver to 
follow is to carve the breast in the best manner 
possible, and omit carving or trying to separate 
the joints, as there is but little to be gained. 

To carve a Goose. — Much of the fore- 
going instructions for carving a duck apply to 
the goose. The breast is the choice part, and 
the joints are difficult to find and separate. 

Cut the slices from the breast quite thin, 
holding the knife quite flat against the bird, as 
otherwise one is very apt to cut uneven slices. 

The stuffing is so thoroughly soaked with 
goose grease, that it should not be served to any 
one but " day-laborers." 



26 TO CARVE A CANVAS- BACK DUCK. 

To carve a Canvas-back Duck. — Half 
a duck is considered a portion, and each guest 
is supposed to receive half of the plump, juicy 
flesh of the breast. This is the rule at banquets 
and at club dinners. 

For private families, however, the author 
recommends that the breast be divided into four 
pieces, as otherwise the dinner would be too 
expensive for the average household. 

To carve, place the duck on the platter, breast 
up, and head from you. Insert the fork through 
the centre of the wish-bone, or merry-thought ; 
press firmly on the fork, which inclines slightly 
from you, so that the points of the fork are 
firmly imbedded in the back. 

The position of the hand on the fork is the 
reverse of the ordinary manner of holding it; 
that is, the thumb extends towards the end of 
the handle. In this way a very firm grip is 
obtained, and the fork is out of the way of the 
knife. If the fork pierces the centre of the breast, 
it prevents the knife from working close to the 
breast-bone ridge, where lies a most toothsome 
morsel. Make the first cut along the right-hand 
side of the ridge, keeping very close to it, and 
cut down to the flat breast-bone ; follow this, 
and free the meat from the lower part of the 
treast, and work up to the shoulder, and around 



RED-HEAD DUCK. 27 

that side of the wish-bone. Turn the meat over 
with the knife, exposing the shoulder joint; 
separate it here, and serve. While this may 
appear complicated to some, it is but the work 
of a moment. Carve the left side in the same 
manner. 

Red-head Duck. — Many claim there is 
but a slight difference between this duck and 
the foregoing, and that it is almost impossible to 
discover this difference. 

Aside from the difference in flavor of the 
flesh, and shape and color of head and bill, there 
is a vast difference between these birds ; and the 
close obser\'ing carver cannot be deceived. The 
red-head is carved, however, in the same manner 
as the canvas-back. 

Teal Duck. — Select a blue-wing instead of 
a green-wing teal. This duck should be split in 
two lengthwise before it is sent to table. 

Spring Chicken. — To know when a broiler 
is fat and juicy, one should examine the back- 
bone. The greater the amount of fat along the 
vertebrae, the fatter will be the chicken in all 
other parts of the body. Should the watdes and 
comb look dull, dingy, or of a leaden color, the 
bird should be rejected, as sickness is thereby 
indicated. A roasted chicken is placed on 
table with the head from you ; the first cut is a 



28 BOILED CAPON. 

slight one on the right breast down to the wing ; 
and, without lifting the knife, the latter is re- 
moved. Next the leg is cut off. Third, cut 
away the wing and leg of left side. Fourth, 
cut the breast in two by separating it from the 
back ; turn the breast, and split it in two from 
the inside. 

A large chicken is carved much the same as a 
turkey or capon, which see. 

Boiled Capon. — A capon is at its best 
boiled ; but, as with nearly all boiled fowls, a very 
sharp knife is necessary in carving the breast. 
A dull knife will tear the flesh, and produce un- 
sightly slices. 

Truss the fowl with twine instead of skewers, 
and, when cooked, place it on the platter, tail 
towards you, and head from you. 

Insert the fork well forward in the breast, and 
cut away the strings, which should have been 
removed before the bird was sent to table. 

First, cut a very thin slice from the right-hand 
side of the breast, down to, and including, the 
wing-bone. 

Second and third, cut the skin on both sides 
of the second joint ; press the knife gently out- 
ward, and you will quickly discover where the 
joint is attached to the back ; separate them. 
Now take another fork (leaving the first fork in 



RCAST TURKEY. 29 

the breast), and divide the drum-stick from the 
second joint while it is in hand. Cut the second 
joint in two lengthwise. 

Next, cut neat, full-sized slices from the breast 
until the knife is obstructed by the wish-bone, 
which separate from the breast- bone and right 
shoulder only ; for, should it be cut completely 
off, the slices of breast on the left-hand side 
would be smaller than they should be. Gently 
draw the bird over on its left side, and with one 
quick, sharp stroke with the knife, cut part way 
through the right centre of the back. Cut 
from the Pope's nose along the back, up to 
this cut, to procure the side bone. The left 
side is carved in the same manner as herein 
described. 

Roast Turkey. — Truss the bird with twine 
instead of skewers ; place the cooked bird, 
with the head from you, on a large platter. 
Have ready one small and one large knife, 
one small and one large fork. Insert the 
large fork through the centre of the breast, 
the tines astraddle of the ridge. Cut away the 
twine, and cut two thin slices of white meat 
from the breast down to the shoulder. Now 
divide the wing from the shoulder, which, if done 
before cutting the two slices, that part of the 
fowl and the upper ends of the slices will be 



30 SQUAB. 

ragged. The expert will next divide the drum- 
stick from the second joint ; but the beginner 
sliould cut above the second joint down towards 
the back, then cut on the lower side, press the 
joint gently outward with the knife, and with 
the point of the knife neatly, and seemingly with- 
out effort, divide the joints. 

Now use the small knife and fork to separate 
the drum-stick and second joint, and also to 
divide the latter while in hand. Slice off the 
breast in wide, long, and not too thin slices. 
Cut off the Pope's nose, and the side bone, as 
described in article on capon. The "oysters" 
on the back belong with the side bones, and 
should not be detached from them. The wish- 
bone should be separated from the breast-bone 
and shoulder ; and a quick stroke will separate 
the collar-bone from the breast; another will 
give you the shoulder blade, around which is 
fair "picking." The left side is carved the same 
as the right side, and it is considered quite an 
accomplishment to be able to carve with the left 
hand as well as the right. 

Squab. — When a dinner consists of many 
courses, and guests are surfeited, a roasted 
squab, or even a broiled squab, may be split in 
two ; but, under all ordinary circumstances, each 
jmest should receive a whole bird. 



ENGLISH PHE4.SANTS. 3 1 

English Pheasants. — These birds are 
quite plentiful, but dear during 'vv^inter, and are 
quite frequently met with at private dinners. 

Owing to the long sea voyage, they are quite 
strongly flavored, or rather gamey, by the time 
they reach our tables ; and we advise that only 
the breast be served. Each side of the breast 
may be divided into two slices. 

The legs and thighs should only be ser\'ed to 
those who advocate " high game." 

Prairie Chicken. — Lard the breast neatly 
with a larding needle, or place a thin sHce of 
larding pork over the breast, and secure it when 
trussing the bird. When roasted, remove the 
twine, insert the fork on the left-hand side, and 
place the bird with its head from you. Cut both 
legs from the body; and, if intended for two 
persons, carve the breast from the right side in 
one whole piece by cutting close to the ridge 
fii-st, then shpping the knife along the breast- 
bone dowTi to the shoulder, and removing the 
wing at the same time. Carve the left in 
the same manner. 



32 FISH. 



FISH. 



The flounder, the English sole, and the small 
chicken halibut are carved thus : Divide the 
fish lengthwise down to the bone, mn the fish- 
knife along the sides from head to tail ; then 
divide each half in three-inch pieces if the fish 
is a thin one, and two-inch pieces if a thick one. 

Remove the bone as soon as exposed, and 
divide the under side in the same manner. 

A shoulder of cod, or a piece of salmon, is 
sened best if the fish is divided, and the upper 
piece placed on the dish, then divided into por- 
tions. The bone is tlien removed from the 
lower piece, and it is divided into portions. 

To divide the top piece into portions, as is 
usually done, we find, that, no matter how care- 
ful in serving, the lower part of the fish is 
bruised. 



SERVING SAUCES WITH MEATS. 33 



SERVING SAUCES WITH MEATS. 

Do not pour a sauce over a portion of meat 
unless you have some special object in view ; 
for instance, should you find a slice of roast beef 
too rare, pour the hot gravy over it, and it will 
look " medium " done. If the beef is very dry, 
as is apt to be the case with frozen meats, pour 
a little of the sauce or gravy on the dish first, 
and then add the meat. It will look juicy, and 
the gravy on the dish will look as though it had 
run out of the meat. 

When boiled mutton is too rare or too well 
done, pour the sauce over the meat, and then 
strew over it a few capers. 

When the meat is just as ordered, either send 
the sauce to table in a boat, or serve it on one 
side of the meat. 



REMARKS ON BONING MEAT. 

Many writers recommend the removal of all 
bone before cooking the meat. They say " it 
facilitates carving." Perhaps it does ; but '' boned 
meat" does not possess the same delicious 
flavor as meat cooked with the bone. 



LUNCHEON 



CONTENTS. 





PAGE 


REMARKS ON LUNCHEON . 


II 


RELISHES FOR THE LUNCHEON 




TABLE 


13 


German R_'\dishes .... 


14 


Pickles 


14 


Nasturtiums' Pickled . 


15 


Tomatoes for A\'inier Use 


15 


Field MushroOxMS for Winter Use 


15 


Mushroom Table Sauce 


16 


Chervil Vinegar .... 


16 


Preserved Watermelon Rind . 


■ 17 


Preserved Strawberries 


17 


Preservef^ Peaches . 


. 18 


Br.\ndy Peaches .... 


19 


"Sweet-Pickle" Peaches . 


19 


Crab Apples' Pickled . 


20 


Tomatoes in Sweet Pickle 


21 


Pears in Sweet Pickle . 


21 


Cucumbers in Sweet Pickle 


21 


Fig To^L•\TOEs .... 


22 


Tomato Ketchup 

5 


. 23 



6 CONTENTS. 

PAGH 

FISH AND SHELL FISH . . 24 

Raw Oysters .... 
Oysters en Brochette . 
Fried Oysters .... 
Curry of Oysters 
Deviled Oysters on Toast 
Pickled Oysters . 
Soft Cla]\is in Chafing Dish 
Stewed Little- Neck Clams . 
Soft Clams .... 
Snapping Turtle . 
Shrimp Paste .... 
Finnan Haddie with Poached Eggs 
Spiced Salmon .... 
Broiled Yarmouth Bloaters , . 30 

How to eat Prepared and Preserved 

Fish 30 

Potted Fish 31 

Potted Eels 31 

Fried Eels 32 

Codfish Balls . . . . 32 

Shad Roe en Brochette . . . ^^ 



00 



HASH. — ^ Xind Word for it 

Corned Beef Hash .... 34 

Minced Lamb on Toast . . 35 

Beef Hash with Poached Egg . . 35 

Minced Ham wuh Poached Ecjg . 35 



CONTENTS. 


7 




PAGE 


Frizzled Beef with Egg . 


. 36 


MACARONI .... 


36 


Macaroni with Roast Meats . 


• 37 


Macaroni with To:\Lvro Sauce 


37 


Macaroni Pie . 


. 38 


Spaghetti .... 


38 


LUNCHEON CURRIES . 


• 39 


Curry of Baked Fish . 


39 


Curry of Cold Roast Beef 


. 40 


P'resh Beef Curry 


40 


Curry of Brisket of Lamb 


41 


Curry of Frogs' Legs . 


42 


Curry of Prawns 


. 42 


EGGS AND OMELETS . 


44 


Chicken- Liver Omelet 


. 44 


Kidney Omelet 


45 


Omelet with Spanish Pepper 


. . 46 


Pickled-Oyster Omelet 


46 


Crayfish Omelet 


. 47 


Stuffed Eggs 


47 


Eggs with Brown Butter . 


. 47 


Oyster-Crab OxMELet 


48 


PAiilES .... 


. . 48 


Dainty Luncheon Patties 


48 


Beef Paities . , , 


. 49 



8 



CONTEXTS. 



VEGETABLES .... 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes . 
Sweet- Potato Souffle . 
Fried Sweet Potatoes 
Green Corn, Maryland style 
Green Corn Fritters 
Elder- Flower Fritters 
Oyster- Plant Croqueites . 
Egg Plant, Fried . 

SWEETBREADS .... 

Lamb Sweetbreads, Tomato Sauce 
Sweetbreads, Broiled 
Sweetbreads, Stewed 
Sweetbreads with Scrambled Eggs 

MISCELLANEOUS . 

GoLOASH, Hungarian style 
Spring Chicken Paprika 
Oyster and Chicken Pie . 
Chicken, Economical Use of 
Calf's Liver en Brochetle 
A Lenten Luncheon Dish 
PorrED Pigeons .... 
Blackbirds en Brocheite 
Calf's Brains .... 
Croqueites of Calf's Brains 
Stewed Beef with Dumplings , 



PAGE 

5« 
5" 
51 
51 

51 

52 
52 
53 

53 

53 
53 

54 
54 

55 

55 
55 
55 
56 
56 
5 7 
5 7 
58 
58 
58 
59 



CONTENTS. 


9 




PAGE 


Flank Steak . . . . . 


60 


Roast Tenderloin of Beef 


. 61 


Lamb's Liver .... 


61 


Lamb's Liver, saute, with Potatoes 


. 62 


Lamb's Liver, au gratin 


62 


Cold Tongue .... 


. (^l 


Cold Tongue with Nudels . 


63 


NUDELS s 


63 


Venison Steak, Sauce Bearnaise . 


64 


Sauce Bearnaise 


65 


Venison Steak in Chafing Dish . 


65 


Cheese Toast .... 


66 


Cheese Fondu .... 


66 


Sausages 


66 


Ham 


67 


Deviled Ham .... 


. 67 


Ham in Chafing Dish . 


67 


Ham, a la Russe . . . . 


67 


Spare Ribs with Apple Fritters . 


68 


Frankfort Sausages . . . . 


68 


Pigs' Feet • 


68 



REMARKS ON LUNCHEON, 



The midday meal of the household is too 
often an indifferent affair, or consists of ingredients 
which upset the system instead of benefiting it. 

This should not be. Quite as much care 
should be exercised in the table appointments 
at lunch as at any other meal. 

If servants are allowed to shirk their duties 
at one time, is it not human to expect them to 
be careless whenever they feel so disposed ? 

Should a child be expected to' have pretty 
table manners at a particular meal, when he is 
allowed to run riot at others ? 

Heavy soups should not appear at the lunch- 
eon table, for it is too much to ask of a servant 
to make soup twice a day. 

Clam broth, however, is easily made, and 
served in cups is always acceptable. 

Small china crocks of beef extract should 
always be on hand for emergency cases, as a 
cup of bouillon is then quickly prepared. 

A stew of oysters, clams, scallops, or a daiiUy 



12 REMARKS ON T.UNXHEON. 

lobster or prawn stew, is most appropriate at 
luncheon. 

The dish takes tlie place of shellfish and soup, 
and is, as it were, a combination of the two. 

Vegetable salads occupy a similar position, 
for they take the place of special vegetables and 
the salad. Fish salads also serve this purpose ; 
and a lunch table with a bounteous dish of well- 
made fish salad is considered at all times a 
well-appointed table. 

This rule equally applies to a well-made salad 
of poultry or meats. 

A well-made hot dish of some kind should 
invariably appear at lunch table, and much 
more care should be taken with it than even 
the joints for dinner. 

If they are not well made and served, they 
will not be eaten, and much good food and 
seasoning will thereby be spoiled. 

The utihzation of the culinary odds and ends, 
which accumulate in the ice-box and pantry, 
deserves the highest consideration ; for without 
this it would be impossible to please the palates 
of the " men-folks," who, if fed on a continual 
diet of fresh meats which were but once cooked, 
would become unbearable. Their nerves would 
be shattered ; and happiness, under such a con- 
dition of things, would be impossible. 



RELISHES FOR THE LUNCHEON TABLE. 1 3 



RELISHES FOR THE LUNCHEON 
TABLE. 

Relishes are very essential at the lunch table, 
and they should be served in as neat a manner 
as possible. 

They should be constantly varied from day to 
day, whenever possible. 

On fish days the salted anchovies and the Ger- 
man sardellen are acceptable ; they should, how- 
ever, be served in fillets or strips, and ft-ee from 
skin and bone. Lemon should be served with 
them. 

Broiled sardines are sometimes served as a 
relish. 

When cold roast meats are served, a most ac- 
ceptable relish to accompany them is pickled 
walnuts. A jar of horse radish is always appre- 
ciated by the lover of cold meats. 

Radishes are excellent as a relish, but they 
should not be served repeatedly. If they are, 
they are more apt to cloy and dull one's appe- 
tite than to tantalize it. 

A most agreeable relish will be found in the 
raw green sweet peppers ; they are not too 



14 GERMAN RADISHES. 

peppery, and their peculiar flavor is a delight 
to the epicure. 

German Radishes. — The little red radish 
is seldom tender after the first of June, and in 
its stead we name the white rusty German 
radishes, which are excellent. Scrape off the 
outer coating, and cut the radish in very thin 
slices j arrange them on a platter, and strew- 
over them a liberal quantity of salt ; let them 
stand a few moments, then serve. 

The long black radish is prepared thus : Scrape 
off the skin carefully, and cut the thin slices 
nearly through without spoiling the shape of the 
radish or dividing it, then insert a little salt be- 
tween the slices ; let it stand fifteen minutes, 
and eat by pulling off one or two slices at a 
time. 

Pickles. — Wash one hundred small cucum- 
bers in cold water, dry them in a cloth, and put 
them in a butter firkin or an unglazed crock. 
Boil two gallons of water, and add a pound and 
a quarter of coarse kitchen salt ; skim until 
clear, and pour it on the cucumbers ; let them 
remain in the brine three days ; drain them in a 
colander. Wash out the vessel, and put into it 
a sliced raw onion, three green peppers sliced, a 
tablespoonful of mustard seeds, a tablespoonful 
each of whole cloves, peppercorns, and allspice. 



NASTURTIUMS PICKLED. 1 5 

Now add the cucumbers, and pour over them 
two gallons of boiling cider vinegar. The spices 
may be put in a thin cloth bag if desired ; and 
if you wish to have the pickles brittle, add a bit 
of alum the size of two peas. The cucumbers 
may remain in the brine for days, but should be 
soaked in fresh water before pickling. 

Nasturtiums Pickled. — Wash the fleshy 
fruits in cold water, and drain. Strew over each 
quart of them a teaspoonful of salt ; let them 
stand over night. Wipe them dry and free from 
salt, and put them in bottles. Boil a quart of 
vinegar with an ounce of whole mixed spice. 
When it is cold, add a little of it to each bottle. 
If the seeds are packed closely, half a pint of 
the vinegar will be sufficient in each bottle. Add 
a few whole green tarragon leaves to each bottle, 
cork and seal. 

Tomatoes for Winter Use. — Select 
sound and thoroughly-ripe tomatoes, scald and 
peel them ; parboil them three minutes ; salt 
slightly; put them into warm jars, and make 
them air-tight as fast as filled. 

Field Mushrooms for Winter Use. — 
Select the smallest of those gathered, and wipe 
them free from grit. Put into a frying pan a 
quarter of a pound of the very best butter. Add 
to it two whole cloves, a saltspoonful of salt, and 



1 6 MUSHROOM TABLE SAUCE. 

a tablespoonful of lemon juice. When hot add a 
quart of the small mushrooms, toss them about 
in the butter for a moment only, then put them 
in jars ; fill the top of each jar with an inch or 
two of the butter, and let it cool. Keep the jars 
in a cool place, and when the butter is quite 
firm, add a top layer of salt. Cover to keep 
out dust. 

Mushroom Table Sauce. — Select the 
largest mushrooms for this purpose. Put into 
the wooden chopping bowl a layer of mush- 
rooms with the root ends upright. Strew over 
them a layer of fine salt. Repeat this process 
until five pounds of mushrooms and one pound 
of salt are used. Cover with a cloth, and let 
them stand forty-eight hours ; then rub through 
a colander or sieve, and put it in an unglazed 
crock or porcelain-lined kettle. Mix together 
one-quarter of an ounce of black pepper, a 
quarter of an ounce of ground allspice, half of 
a bay leaf, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, and 
one clove of garlic. Mix, and add to it a quart 
of claret ; boil it a moment, and add it to the 
mushroom sauce. Boil the whole fifteen min- 
utes ; strain, and add to it half a pint of soy (to 
be had at the grocer's) ; mix and bottle. 

Chervil Vinegar. — Chervil is a delicious 
salad herb, invariably found in all salads prepared 



PRESERVED WATERMELON RIXD. I 7 

by a French epicure. No man can be a true 
epicure who is unfamiliar with this excellent herb. 
Its leaves resemble parsley, but are more divided, 
and a few of them added to a breakfast salad 
give a delightful flavor. A few drops of vinegar 
flavored with it, or added to fish sauces or salads, 
is excellent, and well repays the little trouble 
taken in its preparation. Half fill a botde with 
fresh or dry chervil leaves ; fill the bottle with 
good vinegar, and heat it gently by placing it in 
warm water, which bring to boiling point ; re- 
move from the fire ; cork when cool, and in two 
weeks it will be ready for use. 

Preserved Watermelon Rind. — Cut off 
the outer rind and all of the red part from the 
inside ; cut the rind in strips or squares, and 
boil in a liberal quantity of sirup, allowing a 
pound and a quarter of sugar in a quart of water 
to the pound of rind. Make the sirup first, and 
clarify it with white of egg, skim, and add the 
rind ; simmer until quite transparent ; remo\e 
the rind, boil down the sirup one-third, then 
pour it over the rind. 

Preserved Strawberries. — Gather the 
strawberries in dry weather, when they are not 
over-ripe, and pick without bruising them. Put 
them in clean, dry, wide-mouthed bottles. Take 
equal weight of sugar, and adtl a pint of water 



1 8 PRESERVED PEACHES. 

to every three-quarters of a pound of powdered 
sugar ; boil until quite clear, and strain. When 
a little cool, pour it in the bottles, cork, and tie 
them with string. Wrap straw around them to 
prevent them from being broken. Put them in 
a large stewpan, and add cold water up to their 
necks. Allow the water to boil, then draw to 
one side, and let the bottles remain until the 
water becomes cold. Examine the corks, retie 
or wax them over, and they are ready for use or 
keeping. 

Preserved Peaches. — Fill a four-quart 
steamer with perfectly sound ripe peaches ; place 
the steamer on top of a pot of fast-boiling water 
for three minutes, then remove, and allow the 
fruit to become cold ; peel them carefully, and 
weigh them. Boil together three pounds of 
sugar and one pint of water ; remove all scum 
until quite clear. Soak a tablespoonful of Nel- 
son's gelatine in a gill of cold water ten minutes, 
drain off the cold and add a pint of hot water. 
Add this to the sugar, and boil and skim until 
clear. If not clear enough, whisk into it the 
white and shell of one egg, and strain through a 
flannel bag ; but this is hardly necessary for 
ordinary household sirup used in preserving. 
Make an incision in one side of each peach 
down to the stone. Add four pounds of the 



BRANDY PEACHES. 



19 



peaches to the sirup, and boil five minutes. 
Scald the jars carefully, so as not to crack them, 
then place them in a dripping-pan, and surround 
them with hot water ; fill the jars with the sirup, 
and put about nine peaches in each quart jar ; 
place the clean rubber band on each jar as fast 
as it is filled, and screw on the cover. Remove, 
and when they are cold test the covers to make 
them as tight as possible. (The gelatine is used 
only when a thick sirup is desirable.) 

Brandy Peaches. — Prepare the peaches 
and the sirup as in the foregoing recipe, using 
the same proportions, and before filling the jars 
add a pint of the best brandy, slightly warmed. 

" Sweet -Pickle " Peaches. — Mix the 
following spices together : a teaspoonful each of 
whole allspice and " chip " cinnamon, a table- 
spoonful of minced green ginger, half a tea- 
spoonful of cloves, and one nutmeg broken 
into small pieces ; put the mixed spice in an 
earthen crock, and pour on it a quart of hot 
vinegar; cover, and let it infuse three days, 
stirring it daily; allow it to settle, then strain. 
Put into a porcelain-lined kettle or pot five 
pounds of C sugar ; add the spiced vinegar, 
and boil ; skim, and when no more scum rises 
it is ready. Do 7iot procure your peaches until 
the pickle is ready. Scald five pounds of firm 



20 CRAB APPLES PICKLED. 

but ripe peaches ; wipe them well ; boil the 
pickle, and pour it over the peaches ; boil five 
minutes, and let stand until cold ; remove the 
fruit, and boil the pickle once more ; add the 
peaches, and put into a large crock with a 
cover. Six days afterwards, boil up once, fill 
the warm jars, and make them air-tight. [It 
sometimes happens that the most carefully-pre- 
pared pickles or preserves will prove a disap- 
pointment ; but if you will keep all kinds of 
home-made relishes in a room or cellar free 
from sudden changes of temperature, you will 
experience very little trouble with them. Sliould 
they appear cloudy, or develop a fungoid growth, 
drain off the sirup, and boil up once, or open the 
jars and place them in warm water which should 
be brought to the boiling point. All jars not 
filled to the top should be refilled. This is best 
done by using the contents of one of the jars, 
which is less troublesome than preparing a fresh 
pickle. Do not put too many peaches in a jar ; 
if (|uart jars are used, nine medium-sized peaches 
to each jar will be sufficient.] 

Crab Apples Pickled. — Select bright red 
crab apples with stems on, and boil them whole 
until tender. Care must be exercised not to 
cook them long enough to break their skins. 
Boil the sweet pickle, and pour it over the fruit ; 



TOMATOES IN SWEET PICKLE. 21 

repeat the process three days in succession, boil- 
ing the pickle each time ; fill the jars after the 
last boiling, and seal. 

Tomatoes in Sweet Pickle. — Select 
sound, ripe tomatoes of equal size, and blanch or 
scald them. When cool, skin them. Dry and 
powder the skins, which are excellent for color- 
ing soups, sauces, etc. Put the peeled tomatoes 
into a large steamer, and steam them a quarter 
of an hour; then put them in a sweet pickle, 
and boil ten minutes over a very moderate fire. 
Handle them carefully so as not to break them. 
Store them away in wide crocks. The pickle 
should cover the tomatoes when they are put 
awa}\ 

Pears in Sweet Pickle. — When pears are 
cheap, families are warranted in putting them up 
for winter use. Pare the fruit as neatly as possi- 
ble, leaving the stems on. Boil them in hot 
water or steam them twenty minutes ; then boil 
them in the pickle twice upon successive days, 
only a moment each time. 

Cucumbers in Sweet Pickle. — Select 
large, full-grown cucumbers ; quarter them length- 
wise, remove the seeds, then cut each piece in 
two crosswise. Cover the pieces with wine 
vinegar, and let them stand two days. Then 
drain, and boil them a moment in a sweet pickle ; 



22 FIG TOMATOES. 

take them out of the pickle, and put them in a 
crock. Let the pickle boil five minutes, and pour 
it over the cucumbers. Let them stand ten days, 
and boil the pickle once more. When cold pour 
it over the cucumbers. Let them stand two 
weeks before using. Watermelon rind may be 
treated in like manner. (Pumpkin, squash, and 
citron boiled ten minutes, then boiled in the 
sweet pickle, with the addition of a root or two 
more of green ginger, will be found excellent 
winter rehshes.) 

Fig Tomatoes. — (This excellent recipe 
originally appeared in " Harper's Magazine," 
contributed some years ago by Mrs. Eliza Marsh. 
As I have tested it, and found it valuable, it is 
proper to give the lady due credit.) The fig 
tomatoes are both yellow and red, and are abun- 
dant at their season. " Pour boiling water over 
them to more easily remove their skins, after 
which weigh them, and place them in stone 
crocks in layers with an equal amount of sugar. 
Let them stand two days ; then pour off the 
sirup, and boil and skim it until no scum arises. 
Pour it over the tomatoes, and let them stand 
two days, then boil the sirup and skim again. 
After the third time they are fit to dry, if the 
weather is good ; if not, let them stand in the 
sirup until pleasant weather ; then place the to- 



TOMATO KETCHUP. 23 

niatoes on large platters or dishes, and set them 
in the sun to dry, which will take about a week. 
When thoroughly dry, pack them neatly in small 
wooden boxes with fine sugar between the layers, 
and they will keep for years." 

Fig tomatoes put up in sweet pickle are ex- 
cellent. The skins may be left on. 

Tomato Ketchup. — Cut into slices half a 
bushel of ripe tomatoes, put them in a large 
earthen crock, and between each layer put a 
small quantity of salt (enough to season them 
nicely). Let them stand eight hours. Put mto 
a large saucepan two ounces of mustard seed, 
one ounce of celery seed, a dozen whole cloves, 
the bruised cloves of six roots of garlic, two roots 
of green ginger shredded, an ounce of fresh 
capsicum peppers, a blade of mace, and two 
ounces of shredded horseradish root. xA-dd the 
tomatoes and half a pound of cut sugar. Boil 
slowly three hours ; stir occasionally, care being 
used not to allow it to burn. Add a quart of 
new brandy. Strain while hot ; cover close, and 
let stand two days ; bottle, cork, seal, and keep 
in a cool place. It will be noticed that no vine- 
gar is used. The object is to prevent fermenta- 
tion, which invariably appears when it is used. 
Strain the ketchup as free from seeds as possi- 
ble, as they are objectionable. 



24 RAW OYSTERS. 

This ketchup is expensive ; but it is wonder- 
fully good, and very little of it produces re- 
markable results on the palate of an appreciative 
guest. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH. 

Raw Oysters. — It is in order to advise 
housewives how they should order their oysters 
opened ; for, while there may not appear to be 
any danger in so innocent-looking a thing as an 
oyster, there is nevertheless great danger of its 
kilhng us if by chance we should swallow a 
ragged piece of oyster shell when eating oysters. 
There is just one way to prevent this danger, 
and that is by refusing all oysters that have been 
opened by the process known as " smashing." 
This operation spoils the appearance of the 
oyster and its shell ; and small particles of the 
shell are hammered into the body of the oyster, 
which, when introduced into the stomach, be- 
come a terror as deadly as the mistakes of drug- 
gists. Insist on it that your oysters are opened 
by the stabbing process, and you avert this dan- 
ger. Children should not be allowed to eat 
oysters — raw or cooked — unless they have 
been thoroughly and carefully examined for 



OYSTERS EN BROCHETTE. 25 

minute particles of shells. I am very serious 
about this oyster-opening business ; for, having 
lost a very dear friend through his having care- 
lessly swallowed a piece of oyster shell which 
clung to the oyster, I feel that I cannot be too 
emphatic on this subject. 

Oysters en Brochette. — Select one dozen 
choice oysters, plunge them into hot water a 
second to make them firm (this process is called 
blanching), then drain, and dip them into melted 
butter ; arrange them on skewers with alternate 
layers of neatly -sliced bacon; broil over a 
moderate fire. When done add maitre-d'hotel 
butter to them, and serve on the skewers. 

Fried Oysters. — Beat up the yolks of four 
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and 
season them with a teaspoonful of salt and a 
S'altspoonful of cayenne pepper ; beat up thor- 
oughly. Dry twelve fat oysters on a napkin ; 
dip them in the egg batter, then in cracker dust ; 
shake off the loose cracker dust, dip them again 
in the egg batter, and lastly roll them in fine 
bread crumbs. Fry in \'ery hot fat, using fat 
enough to cover them. The oil gives them a 
nice flavor. 

Curry of Oysters. — Put an ounce of 
butter in a pan, add to it a teaspoon of curry 
powder, and water enough to prevent burning. 



26 DEVILED OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

Put fifteen oysters in just water enough to cover 
them, simmer three minutes, and drain ; thicken 
the broth with a teaspoonful of flour, salt to 
taste, stir this into the curry ; add the oysters, 
simmer a moment, and serve with boiled rice. 

Deviled Oysters on Toast. — Mix to- 
gether a heaping saltspoonful of mustard flour, 
half a saltspoonful each of white pepper and 
salt, and the yolk of one egg. Dip six oysters 
in the paste, then in fine crumbs, and broil over 
a moderate fire. When done, arrange on toast, 
and squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon. 

Pickled Oysters. — A few pickled oysters 
may be served instead of clams during warm 
weather. Scald a quart of oysters a moment, 
drain, and put them in jars. To a pint of oyster 
liquor, add half a pint of hot water and half a 
pint of hot vinegar ; pour over the oysters ; add 
three cloves, four whole peppers, a small bit of 
mace, and a slice of lemon, to each jar. This 
will be sufficient for two ordinary fruit jars. 

Soft Clams in Chafing Dish. — Select a 
dozen large Guilford clams, wash them thor- 
oughly, and plunge them into boiling water for 
a moment. Drain and open them, and use the 
round plump part only. Put in a chafing dish 
a pat of butter, and when quite hot add a dash 
of flour, and cayenne to suit the taste ; add the 



STEWED LliiLE-XECK CLAMS. 27 

clams, and, when they are sHghtly cooked, add 
a gill of light sherry. Cover the dish, and allow 
it to simmer five minutes. Have ready three 
slices of toast, put four clams upon each slice, 
add a little of the hot sherry, and serve. 

Stev/ed Little-Neck Clams. — Get two 
dozen freshly opened, very small clams. Boil a 
pint of milk, a dash of white pepper, and a small 
pat of butter. Now add the clams. Let them 
come to a boil, and serve. Longer boiling 
will make the clams almost indigestible. • 

Soft Clams. — Select a dozen soft-shell 
clams : wash them w^ell ; remove the shells ; 
trim off the tough neck ; place each clam on a 
half shell, and add to each half a teaspoonful of 
finely-chopped bacon, a little cayenne, a very 
small bit of onion, and a pat of butter rolled in 
flour ; strew over the top a little grated Parmesan 
cheese, and bake to a delicate brown. Cracker 
crumbs may be used instead of the cheese if 
preferred. 

Snapping Turtle. — Philadelphia is the 
home of this most highly-esteemed dish. Select 
a turtle weighing about ten i^ounds, allow it to 
swim in a tub of clean water half a day. Half 
fill a wash boiler with water ; when it boils, drop 
the snapper into it. (This is the quickest and 
best mode of killing : cutting his head off is apt 



28 SHRIMP PASTE. 

to be attended with difficulties when attempted 
by amateurs.) Boil twenty-five minutes, then 
plunge in cokl water to cool. Remove the nails, 
scales, and outer skin, turn it over, and separate 
and remove the breast or lower shell. Remove 
the entrails carefully, saving the liver only ; cut 
off the gall bag without breaking it ; divide the 
remainder of the flesh in neat pieces, put them 
in a pot, and add a gallon of water. Simmer 
four hours. Add salt to taste, a teaspoonful of 
whole peppercorns, a j^inch of nutmeg, the 
grated rind of a lemon, and a heaping table- 
spoonful of mixed dry herbs. 

Five minutes before serving, add a pint of 
sherry, a little cayenne, and three hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine ; cut a lemon in slices, and 
add them, and serve. Should the turtle contain 
eggs, they may be served separately. 

Shrimp Paste. — You can make an excel- 
lent shrimp paste as follows : Boil the shrimps 
half an hour ; when cool, shell them ; put the 
shells in a mortar, and pound them to a paste ; 
add two ounces of butter to the pound of shells, 
and season with salt and cayenne ; add a pint of 
hot water, and simmer an hour ; strain. Now put 
the edible or tail part in the mortar, and pound it 
to a paste, moisten with the liciuid from the shells, 
Hud season liberally with salt and cayenne. l\\\ 



FLXXAX tL\DDIE WITH POACHED EGGS. 29 

it in a double saucepan, surrounded by water, 
and heat it through. Fill the jars three-fourths 
full of the mixture. Pour over it enough melted 
butter to fill the jar, and keep in a cool place. 
When wanted, remove the butter. This paste 
will be found excellent for sandwiches, sauces, 
etc., but not of the same color as the shrimp 
paste of the shops, which is colored with chemi- 
cals. 

Finnan Haddie with Poached Eggs. — 
Finnan baddies are smoked haddock. Most of 
the fish smoked in this vicinity are invariably 
kept too long before being cured, and are, there- 
fore, quite inferior to the Scotch and Canadian 
prepared fish. Cut the fish into pieces about 
three inches square. Remove the skin, and par- 
boil fifteen minutes. Drain quite dry in a towel, 
and brush over the fish a little butter ; broil a 
moment, and add melted butter and a little 
lemon juice ; on top of each piece of fish place 
a poached egg. The fish may be boiled until 
done, and served in this manner, instead o/ 
broiling afterwards. 

Spiced Salmon. — Cut from a medium- 
sized salmon six slices even, about an inch and 
a half in thickness. Put a slice in an earthen 
crock, one wide enough to admit of the salmon 
being removed from it, when cooked, without 



3vJ UROILED YARMOUl'H ISLOATERS. 

breaking the slices. Season it nicely with a part 
of a blade of mace, a bit of bay leaf, one clove 
of garlic, six whole peppercorns, four cloves, a 
little salt, and a thin slice of lemon. Add an- 
other slice of salmon, and season in like manner, 
and repeat the process until all the slices are 
used. Add equal parts of vinegar and water 
to cover the fish ; set the crock (covered) in 
a saucepan of water, simmer three hours, and 
allow it to cool before uncovering. The best 
brand of canned salmon is excellent served in 
this manner, but requires not more than fifteen 
minutes boiling to make it perfect. 

Broiled Yarmouth Bloaters. — Bloat- 
herrings, or bloaters, are large herrings smoked 
and cured. They are called Yarmouth from 
Yarmouth, Eng., where they were supposed to 
be first cured. They are a very appetizing 
breakfast dish. Split them down the back, re- 
move the bone and head, and broil three min- 
utes. Pour over it a little lemon juice mixed 
with hot butter. 

How to eat Prepared and Preserved 
Fish. — Many object to eating fish of any kind, 
owing to the after effects. This unpleasantness 
is caused by flooding the food with liquids while 
eating. Drink your coffee and other liquids yfr-f/, 
and afterward cat the salmon. Above all, 



POTTED FISH. 3 1 

masticate properly, and you will have no farther 
trouble. 

Potted Fish. — The lunch table is the place 
to introduce home-made potted and pickled fish 
of all kinds ; and when good fish are plentiful 
and cheap, a jar of them should be found in 
every household. 

Clean the fish thoroughly, remove the head, 
tail, and skin ; split the fish in two lengthwise, 
then cut each half into neat pieces of equal size. 
Put into an old-fashioned stone jar a layer of 
sliced onion, add a layer of the raw fish, strew 
over it a liberal quantity of whole mixed spice 
and salt ; add another layer of fish, and season 
as before, and continue this process until all the 
fish is used. Cover the fish with good vinegar ; 
make the jar air-tight, and put it in a pan ot 
water, simmer half a day, and do not remove 
cover until it is cool. 

When serving, arrange neatly on the dish, and 
garnish with hard-boiled eggs quartered length' 
wise, and lemon similarly cut. 

Potted Eels. — This is the only way in 
which eels are appreciated by some. They 
seem to lose their peculiar oily flavor, and are 
very acceptable at lunch. 

Prepare them as in the foregoing recipe, and 
add a few bay leaves to the seasoning ingredients, 



32 FRIED EELS. 

Fried Eels. — Cut the cleaned eels into 
three-inch pieces, and strew over tliem a quan- 
tity of salt ; let stand an hour, rinse off the salt, 
dip them in beaten egg, then roll in crumbs, and 
fry in boiling fat. 

Codfish Balls. — A well-made codfish ball 
is a delicious dish, but recently it has fallen into 
disrepute for one reason. 

Some few years ago an inventive Yankee con- 
ceived the idea of putting up in small boxes 
what he called ''boneless codfish;" and since 
then a perfect codfish ball is a very rare article, 
for the simple rea^,on that very little of the true 
codfish is used. 

Species of codfish, such as hake, haddock, 
pollock, and fifty other varieties, are so put up 
whenever cheap ; but the true codfish is seldom 
if ever used. When wanted, purchase the old- 
fashioned salted, dried fish, and pick it to pieces 
as fine as possible, or rub it to fine shreds in a 
mortar. Soak it six hours ; drain, and simmer 
half to three-quarters of an hour. Wash, peel, 
quarter, and boil twice the quantity of potatoes 
that you have of fish ; mix fish and potatoes 
together while warm, and beat them as light as 
possible. To a pound of fish add three ounces 
of butter, two beaten eggs, and cayenne or white 
pepper to taste. Wlien well incorj^orated shape 



SHAD ROE EN BROCHETTE. 33 

into small, very neat cakes not over half an inch 
thick or two inches and a half in width, and fry 
in boiling fat. 

Shad Roe en Brochette. — Parboil the 
roes slightly ; cut them into inch pieces, and 
dredge them with flour. Arrange the pieces 
alternately on skewers with neat thin pieces of 
bacon, and broil a delicate brown on all four 
sides ; serve with sauce maitre d'hotel. 



Hi\SH. 



A Kind Word for it. — The paragraph 
writer who has not penned a slur at the homely 
fare known as hash is a vara avis, and the poet 
whose first attempt at doggerel was not a denun- 
ciation of boarding-house hash is yet to be 
found. Slangy men of the world call a hotel 
or restaurant a " hashery," signifying that the 
resort is a place to avoid, it being cheap and not 
nice. Yet, with all the censure heaped upon it 
by an unappreciative public, hash is, from a hy- 
gienic standpoint, the very best mode of serving 
food. This statement may seem incredible, but 
when we consider it a moment we realize the 
truthfulness of it. Statistics are not wanting to 
prove that minced food digests almost as soon 



34 CORNED- BEEF HASH. 

without being chewed at all as if it had been 
thoroughly masticated. People who habitually 
" bolt " their food suffer no inconvenience from 
the practice when their food is cut very line. 
Most of us eat too rapidly, either from forgetful- 
ness, bad teeth, or in case of hurry ; and the re- 
sult is derangement of the stomach which in 
time ends in an almost incurable case of dys- 
pepsia. Hash, then, is the proper food to order 
in such cases. It need not necessarily be the 
well-known compound so familiar to all ; but 
served in the form of croquettes, forcemeats, 
patties, cromisquis, souffles, etc., it is always ac- 
ceptable, and may be offered to the most fastidi- 
ous ; for while those various names sound more 
poetical, they all mean the same thing, simply — 
hash. 

Corned-Beef Hash. — This homely Amer- 
ican dish, when properly prepared, is very ac- 
ceptable. The brisket part of the beef is the 
best for this purpose. The rump or very lean 
meat does not make good hash. Chop up the 
meat very fine the night before it is wanted ; add 
to it an equal quantity of warm boiled potatoes, 
moisten them a little with clear soup strongly 
impregnated with onion flavor. Mix meat and 
potatoes together, and place in ice box until 
wanted. The next morning it should be warmed 



MINCED LAMB ON TOAST. 35 

in a frying pan. A little onion may be added if 
not objected to. Moisten the hash with hot 
water or clear soup, and, when quite hot, serve. 
Some like the hash browned ; this is accom- 
plished by using a small quantity of butter, and 
frying the hash a delicate brown. The pan 
should be raised to an angle of thirty degrees, 
and the hash shaped like an omelet, then turned 
deftly out on a hot dish. 

Minced Lamb on Toast. — The cold lamb 
left from the preceding day is quite accept- 
able when served in this manner. All fat should 
be removed, and the meat chopped quite fine, 
warmed in the pan, moistened with a little stock 
or hot water, and seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Then arrange on slices of buttered toast. 
Poached eggs are appreciated by many with this 
dish. Arrange each egg neatly on top of the 
meat without breaking it. 

Beef Hash with Poached Egg. — Boiled 
fresh beef, left from the preceding day, and made 
into a hash with one-half meat, one-quarter each 
of potato and apple, and a little minced celery, 
nicely cooked and seasoned, and served on toast 
with a poached egg, is a very good dish. 

Minced Ham v/ith Poached Egg. — 
Mince half a pound of cold boiled ham ; put an 
ounce of butter in a frying pan ; when melted 



36 FRIZZLED REEF WITH EGG. 

add the ham and a very Httle hot water and a 
pinch of cayenne. When quite hot arrange it 
neatly on shces of toast, put a poached Ggg on 
top of each, and serve. Minced liani prepared 
for evening parties and not all used may be 
served in this manner. 

Frizzled Beef with Egg. — Cut half a 
pound of smoked or jerked beef into the thin- 
nest of pieces or shavings ; cover with boiling 
water for five minutes, and drain. Melt an 
ounce of sweet butter in the frying pan, and 
add the wafers of beef. When they begin to 
frizzle or turn up, break over them three eggs ; 
stir until the eggs are cooked ; add a little white 
pepper, and serve on slices of buttered toast. 



MACARONI. 

An Italian invention, and the most popular 
form in which wheat flour is sent to table, bread 
excepted. 

It is an excellent dish to serve at luncheon or 
other impromptu meals ; and, while the dish 
called " au gratin " is known to nearly all cooks, 
there are many other ways of preparing this 
very excellent food product. 



WACAROXI WITH ROAST ME.4TS. 37 

Macaroni with Roast Meats. — A most 
excellent dish is made as tollows. Break into 
small inch i)ieces enough macaroni to make a 
pint; cover with boiling water slightly salted, 
and boil fifteen minutes ; drain. Cut into small 
pieces one small onion, put it in a pan with 
a little oil or lard, simmer until brown, and 
add half a pint of hot water or soup, then add 
half a pound of cooked meat of any kind, and 
also add the macaroni, salt and pepper to taste ; 
now add a teaspoonful of flour, cover, and let 
the dish simmer fifteen minutes. 

This is an excellent way of disposing of those 
odds and ends which, while they are not large 
enough to be served a second time, are never- 
theless too good to be thrown away. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. — Boil 
the macaroni fifteen minutes ; then drain, put it 
on a flat dish, and pour round it a tomato sauce ; 
strew over the dish a quantity of grated cheese. 
The tomato sauce is prepared as follows : Open 
a can of tomatoes that contains but little liquid ; 
simmer them gently three-quarters of an hour ; 
season with salt, cayenne, a clove of garlic 
bruised, and very little mace. Press them 
through a fine sieve ; put the pulp in a clean, 
hot stewpan with a little butter, stir to })revent 
burning, and when quite thick sen'e. A most 



38 MACARONI PIE. 

excellent tomato sauce is made of a l)rilliant 
red tomato ketchup. Take half a pint of it, 
heat it gently, add a gill of rich son}) stock and 
a teaspoonful of flour dissolved in a little cold 
water, simmer until it thickens, and serve. Or- 
dinary ketchups do not have the proper color, 
and are liable to sour when heated. 

Macaroni Pie. — Put into a round baking 
tin two slices of bacon, add to it a layer of mac- 
aroni ; next add a layer of raw meat cut into 
inch pieces ; season with salt and pepper ; add 
another layer of macaroni, and so on until the 
dish is nearly full. Then add sufficient quantity 
of gravy, soup, or hot water, to have the disii 
quite moist when done. Cover the dish with 
an ordinary piecrust, and bake brown. 

A very nice pie is made by adding a layer or 
two of tomatoes, and, if not objected to, a little 
onion may be added for its flavor. 

Fish and shell fish are added to macaroni 
when the pie is made for fast- day meals. 

Spaghetti. — (Spaghetti is a variety of mac- 
aroni, but is much smaller in diameter, and is 
served unbroken.) Plunge the ends in fast- 
boiling water, which should be slightly salted ; 
when soft, coil them in the water, without break- 
ing, and boil for fifteen minutes ; drain in a col- 
ander, and pour cold water on it. Put it on a 



CURRY OF BAKED FISH. 39 

hot dish, pour a rich hot tomato sauce over it, 
and keep on the back of the range until it is 
heated through, or strew over it a quantity of 
.crrated cheese. 



LUNCHEON CURRIES. 

Curries are very acceptable at luncheon, be- 
sides being an excellent mode of disposing of 
small odds and ends of joints which accumulate 
in the ice box. A few recipes are here given, 
but a more extended list may be found in " The 
Book of EPitrces" by the same author. 

Curries are made much stronger in pungency 
in India, the home of curries, than as prepared 
by our recipes, owing to climate. People in the 
North add a little flour to the dish for two rea- 
sons : one is to tone down the pungency of 
the curry powder, and the other is to slightly 
thicken the sauce. 

Curry of Baked Fish. — It frequently 
happens that part of a baked fish is left from a 
preceding dinner, and we know of no more ac- 
ceptable mode of serving it again than as a 
curry. 

Divide the fish into flakes. Put into a frying 
pan half a teaspoonful of lard, and when hot 



40 CURRY OF COLD ROAST HEEF. 

add a tablespoonful of minced onion. Fry 
quite brown, add a gill of hot water or broth, 
salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of curry powder. 
If the onions are objected to (but we don't see 
why they should be), strain the sauce, then add 
half a teaspoonful of wet flour to tone down the 
pungency of the curry. Now add fish enough 
to absorb the curry, and place the dish on back 
of range for fifteen minutes. 

Curry of Cold Roast Beef. — A most 
enjoyable dish is made of cold roast beef. Cut 
the beef into thin slices, then divide each slice 
into neat, even pieces. 

Brown a minced onion in the pan with a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, add a saltspoonful of 
salt and half a pint of hot water ; thicken with 
a teaspoonful of wet flour free from lumps ; now 
add the meat, squeeze over it the juice of an 
orange, and you have a delicious dish. 

When there is too small a quantity of meat, 
an equal quantity of lima beans, string beans, 
cut-up potatoes, or almost any other vegetable, 
may be added. 

When fresh raw meat is used as a curry, pro- 
ceed as follows : — 

Fresh Beef Curry. — The best piece of 
meat for this dish is the lean part of the flank, 
called flank steak, which, being cross-grained, 



CURRV OF BRISKET OF LAMB. 4T 

allows the curry to thoroughly assimilate with 
every particle of the meat. Cut up one pound 
of the meat into neat square pieces. Put into 
a frying pan one ounce of oil or butter, and fry in 
it half of a minced onion, stirred until they 
begin to brown, add the beef, and stir to prevent 
burning for about twenty minutes ; now add a 
teaspoon of curry and half a pint of rich gravy 
(if possible) or hot water ; simmer; squeeze out 
the juice of one orange, sweeten it a little, add 
it to the dish, add a heaping teaspoonful of apple 
sauce, stir, and simmer nearly an hour. Arrange 
a border of rice on a flat side dish, pour the 
contents of the saucepan in the centre, and 
serve. To those who are ver)- fond of curry, a 
teaspoonful of the powder will not be enough ; 
in which case the powder should be placed on 
the table. The flour is here omitted. 

Curry of Brisket of Lamb. — Cut up 
two pounds of lamb into neat pieces, brown 
them nicely in a frying pan with butter seasoned 
with salt and half a teaspoonful of chopped green 
mint ; add a wineglassful of Rhine wine and two 
teaspoonfuls of curry powder, simmer slowly 
three-quarters of an hour ; prepare a border of 
rice, put the lamb in the centre : squeeze the 
juice of an orange in a cup, add a little sugar to 
it, sprinkle it over the rice, and serve. 



42 CURRV OF frogs' LEGS. 

Curry of Frogs' Legs. — This is an excel- 
lent dish. Wash one pound of frogs' legs in 
cold water ; brown one-fourth of an onion in oil 
or butter ; add a teaspoonful of curry and a pint 
of hot water ; pour this in a saucepan, and add 
the frogs ; simmer an hour and a half, and drain. 
Mix a teaspoonful each of rice flour and curry 
to a paste, with the broth ; add salt to taste, and 
lialf a i)int of milk. Place on the range, and 
when hot add the frogs. Blanch two dozen 
sweet almonds ; rub off the skins, split them, 
and toss them about in hot butter ; season with 
pepper and salt ; when done squeeze a little 
lemon juice over them, and send to table on 
separate dish with the curry. 

Curry of Prav/ns. — Prawns are at their 
best served as a curry. Pioil two quarts of live 
prawns tliirty minutes, drain when shghtly cooled, 
break away the shells, and set them aside. Put 
two ounces of butter in a frying pan ; when very 
hot add a clove of garlic and one sliced apple ; 
brown slightly, remove the garlic, and add a 
dessertspoonful of curry powder mixed with a 
gill of water ; stir, and add half a pint of soup- 
stock and half a teaspoonful of flour ; now add 
the prawns, and the juice of half a lemon in 
which a lump of sugar has been dissolved. 
Pour out on a hot dish, and send to table with 
rice croquettes. 



CURRY OF PR.A.\VNS. 43 

Prawns are plentiful the last of March and 
the first of April, and are at their best at that 
time. Of the numerous varieties of prawns, the 
species with which we are most familiar, and 
which are often found associated together, are 
the Penceus seiiferus and Penceus brasiliensis ; 
and, according to Professor Lewis R. Gibbes, 
these species may be distinguished by the fol- 
lowing characters : — 

The common shrimp (/I setiferus) has a 
groove on each side of the large spine that 
springs from the fore and upper part of the 
shell or carapax ; these run backward, and ter- 
minate about the middle of the length of the 
shell. In the same tray in the market will 
frequently be found other individuals, far less 
numerous, in which these grooves run the whole 
length of the shell, terminating just in front of 
the hinder edge or border of the shell, at the 
first joint. This form I have referred to as the 
P. brasiliensis of Latreille. Full-grown shrimps 
(/*. seiiferus) measure six or more inches in 
length from the tip of the large anterior spine 
to the tip of the tail spine, and three-fourths 
of an inch deep, and broad in the front or 
body part. The large specimens of both species 
are known in the markets as " prawns," or 
''sprawns," and tlie half-grown individuals are 



44 CHICKEN-LIVER OMELET. 

distinguished as 'Shrimps." l^rawns are in sea- 
son from the latter part of February or the first 
of March, and remain in season two or three 
months. 

Shrimps are in season from June until autumn. 
These and other varieties of prawns and shrimps 
inhabit salt or brackish water, and sometimes 
ascend streams to where the water is nearly or 
quite fresh for the purpose of spawning. 

The foregoing must not be confused with the 
crayfish or crawfish, which are found in most 
of die fresh- water streams of the United States, 
and are in season from early spring until frost 
sets in. 

Most of the prawais sent to market are cooked 
before shipment, and need only w^arming up. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 

Chicken-Liver Omelet. — As a rule, the 
chickens used in the household are not enough 
to make entrees of their livers or other tidbits, 
so it is advisable to use them in omelets or 
garnishments to other dishes. Remove the gall 
pouch carefully, without breaking, from four 
livers ; wash the livers in cold water, then jiar- 
boil slightly, and (juarter them if too large. Put 



KIDXEV OMELET. 45 

them in a frying pan with enough butter to pre- 
vent burning, and toss them about until easily 
penetrated with a fork ; add a teaspoonful of 
onion vinegar, and a gill of dark rich gravy or 
sauce Espagiiole ; season with salt and a dash 
of cayenne, a tablespoonful of sherry, and, if 
convenient, add a tablespoonful of chopped 
mushrooms ; place on back of range while the 
omelet is preparing, and before finishing the fold 
add the prepared livers. When nicely made, 
this is a most excellent dish. 

Kidney Omelet. — Wash two mutton kid- 
neys, remove the sinews adhering to them, cut 
them in slices, cover with water slightly salted, 
and allow them to stand six hours ; drain, and 
parboil a few moments. Put into a frying pan 
a pat of butter ; when hot add the kidneys ; toss 
them about to cook them evenly ; add a gill of 
gravy, a tablespoonful of sherry, salt, pepper, 
and a little lemon or orange juice. Set the pan 
on the back of the range while you prepare the 
omelet as follows : Break three eggs, and ex- 
amine them before beating them together. Add 
a teaspoonful of milk, and beat the eggs up to 
the last moment before pouring them in the 
pan. As soon as the omelet sets, remove the 
pan from the hottest part of the fire ; strike 
the handle of the pan with the left hand to pre- 



46 OMELET WITH SPANISH PEPPER. 

vent the omelet from sticking to the pan, or shp 
a knife under it, which will accomplish the same 
result. When the centre of the omelet is quite 
firm, slant the pan, and prepare for folding the 
omelet, which is easily done if a little care is 
exercised. Before folding, add the kidneys, and 
put the sauce around the omelet. 

Omelet with Spanish Pepper. — The 
sweet Spanish pepper, in any form, is a most 
excellent addition to our list of vegetables, and 
is most acceptable when served in an omelet. 
Fry a small spring onion in a little butter, cut 
up two peppers, add them to the pan, and sim- 
mer slowly twenty minutes ; add a little water 
or gravy to prevent burning. Add a little salt, 
and a pinch of cayenne, for the pepper is not 
hot notwithstanding its hot name. When re- 
duced to a pulp, put it inside of an omelet just 
before folding it. A little tomato sauce may be 
served with it if desired. 

Pickled -Oyster Omelet. — Rinse six 
spiced or pickled oysters in cold water. Divide 
an ounce of butter into little balls, and roll 
them in flour ; put them in a saucepan, heat 
gradually, and whisk to a cream ; add a gill of 
hot water, salt and pepper. Cut the oysters in 
two, and add to the butter. Prepare an omelet 
in the usual manner ; before folding, add the 
oysters, turn out on a hot dish, and serve. 



CR.\YFISH OMELET. 47 

Crayfish Omelet. — Boil one quart of 
live crayfish in well-salted water for twenty-five 
minutes ; drain and cool. Remove the shells, 
split the meat from each tail in two pieces length- 
wise, and remove the thread-like intestine found 
therein. Melt two ounces of butter, whip it to 
a cream while it is slowly melting. Dust in a 
saltspoonful of flour, a pinch of cayenne, a dash 
of nutmeg, and a gill of Rhine wine. Set it on 
the back of the range, add the crayfish tails, and 
prepare the omelet ; just before folding, add the 
crayfish, and turn the omelet on a hot dish. 

Stuffed Eggs. — Work four ounces of boiled 
or potted ham to a smooth paste ; add a pinch 
of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of anchovy paste. 
Hard boil six eggs ; when cold remove the shells, 
cut a thin slice off the large end of each ; take 
out the yolks, and put them in a mortar with a 
third of their bulk of table butter, a little salt, 
and nutmeg ; add the ham and very little hot 
soup or water ; heat it gently ; press the paste 
into the empty whites ; arrange neatly on a dish, 
small end upwards ; garnish liberally to hide the 
lower end, and serve. 

Eggs with Brown Butter. — Break four 
eggs separated into a cup ; brown two ounces 
of butter in a frying pan ; add the eggs gently 
to the butter, and with a spoon pour the butter 



48 OVSTER-CRAB OMELET. 

over tliem ; toast four slices of bread, placing 
them in tlie oven instead of before the fire ; 
sprinkle warm vinegar over the toast ; add the 
eggs to the toast ; on top of each sprinkle a 
little salt and nutmeg, and serve. 

Oyster-Crab Omelet. — This is a most 
tempting dish. Roll an ounce of butter into 
little balls, dredge these with flour, put them in 
a pan, and when they begin to melt whisk them 
— do not let it brown ; add a gill of hot water, 
and simmer until thick ; now add half a pint of 
oyster crabs, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Beat 
up four eggs thoroughly, and make them into an 
omelet ; just before folding add the crabs, and 
serve. 



PATTIES. 



Dainty Luncheon Patties. — Mince a 
pound of cold roast chicken or turkey, and 
warm it in a pan. Mince half a pound of fresh 
mushrooms, simmer them in a gill of good strong 
gravy, and mix them with the chicken. Boil 
a pint of milk, and thicken it with a heaping 
tablespoonful of wet flour. Add the milk to the 
meat ; season with salt and pepper, and place 
on back of range to become thoroughly incor- 



REEF PATTIES. 49 

porated ; then add the juice of a lemon. Fill 
dainty patty shells with the mixture, and serve. 

Prepare the patty shells as follows : One pint 
of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, and 
half a teaspoonful of salt; sift all together. 
Wash the salt from half a pound of good butter 
in ice-water ; work half the butter by degrees 
into the prepared flour, and mix with a little 
more than a gill of ice-water, or enough to make 
a stiff dough ; roll out the paste, and strew over 
it a part of the remaining butter divided into 
little pieces, and dredged with flour ; roll up the 
dough like a jelly roll, and roll it out again with 
the rolling pin ; repeat this latter process once 
more, and when rolled out thin, add the remain- 
ing butter. The paste being ready, now roll it 
out half an inch in thickness, cut it into rounds 
with a cake cutter two inches in diameter ; press a 
small cutter, an inch in diameter, on each round, 
one-fourth of an inch deep. Place them on a 
buttered tin or paper, and bake a delicious 
l)rown ; when done remove the centre circle 
carefully, and set it aside to be used as a cover. 
Remove the soft insides without breaking the 
walls of the shell. 

Beef Patties. — Cut into pieces, as for 
Hamburg steak, one pound of steak free from 
fat and sinews. Fry l)rown a tablespoon ful of 



50 BROILED SWEET POTATOES. 

chopped onion ; add a pint of gravy or broth ; 
simmer a moment, and remove the onion by- 
straining ; return the broth to the pan, and add 
the meat. Allow it to cook a very little under-, 
instead of over-done. A can of French pease 
and a few mushrooms added, will improve the 
dish wonderfully. Add salt and pepper, and, if 
too moist, add a little flour. Prepare the shells 
as in the foregoing recipe ; fill them, and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 



Broiled Sweet Potatoes. — Raw and 

boiled potatoes are served in this manner. Cut 
the raw potatoes in thin slices ; brush melted 
butter over them and also over the wire broiler, 
to prevent their sticking to it ; broil them a dark 
brown. Boiled sweet potatoes need to be but 
slightly broiled, just enough to warm through 
and at the same time to show the marks of the 
broiler. 

Sweet - Potato Souffle. — Boil four me- 
dium-sized sweet potatoes. When done, peel 
and mash them. Beat up the yolks and whites 
of two eggs separately ; add a gill of cream to 
the yolks ; beat it into the potato (seasoned with 
salt and pepper), and place it in the oven. 



FRIED SWEET POTATOES, 51 

Whisk the whites to a foam. Remove the pan 
from the oven, add the foam, replace it in the 
oven, and when dehcately browned it is done. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes are usually pre- 
pared from cold boiled potatoes. They may be 
either tossed about in very little fat, or dropped 
into a large quantity of fat and fried like dough- 
nuts. Mashed and whipped up with milk, but- 
ter, and one or two eggs, then rolled into little 
cones or balls and fried, they are much better. 

Green Corn, Maryland style. — Take 
six ears of boiled green corn when cool enough 
to handle, and cut off the kernels. Cut one- 
quarter of a pound of fat bacon in little strips, 
then in very small dice, and fry them crisp. 
Take them out of the fat, and add the corn to 
the hot fat, toss it about a few minutes, add salt 
and cayenne, and turn out on a hot dish, strew 
the bits of bacon over the top, and serve. 

Green - Corn Fritters. — Cut through the 
centre of each row of kernels, then press out 
the centre pulp with the back of the knife. 
Beat two eggs thoroughly, and add to them a 
heaping saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, 
one pint of corn pulp, and flour enough to make 
a moderately stiff batter. Drop the batter in 
smoking-hot fat by tablespoonfuls, and brown 
them evenly. 



52 ELDER- FLOWER FRITTERS. 

Elder-Flower Fritters. — (The elder bush 
is found growing in waste and neglected places, 
and may be recognized by its large bunches of 
minute flowers arranged in umbellate and race- 
mose cymes, the corolla or crown being wheel- 
shaped and fine-cleft.) Gather the flowers when 
fully developed, and let them stand in cold water, 
slightly salted, for an hour; take them out of 
the water, and pick off the flowers. Sprinkle 
over them a tablespoonful of brandy to each pint 
of flowers. Beat the yolks of three eggs ; add 
a saltspoonful of salt, a heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar, two ounces of wheat flour, and a pint 
of elder flowers, and stir into the mixture a 
tablespoonful of olive oil. Drop spoonfuls of 
the batter in smoking-hot fat, and serve with 
brandy sauce. 

Oyster - Plant Croquettes. — To three 
quarts of cold water add a gill of vinegar, scrape 
and throw into the water the oyster plant as fast 
as cleaned. Drain and plunge them into boiling 
water slightly salted ; boil fifty minutes, drain, 
and mash them thoroughly ; season with salt, 
pepper, and butter, and bind together with yolks 
of eggs ; roll them in cork shapes, dip in egg 
batter and then in crumbs, and fry in a liberal 
quantity of hot fat. Throwing the roots in water 
containing vinegar prevents them from turning 
black after they are scraped. 



EGG PT.AXT FRIED. 53 

Egg Plant Fried. — Cut the vegetable 
into slices one-quarter of an inch thick without 
removing the skin. Sprinkle salt over each shce, 
and return the slices to their original shape ; 
press gently to extract the juice, then drain and 
peel; dip them in egg, roll them in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat. 



SWEETBREADS. 

Lamb Sweetbreads, Tomato Sauce. — 

Lamb sweetbreads are not always procurable, 
but a stroll through the markets occasionally 
reveals a small lot of them, which can invaria- 
bly be had at a low price, owing to their ex- 
cellence being recognized by but few buyers. 
Wash them well in salted water, and parboil 
fifteen minutes ; when cool, trim neatly, and 
put them in a pan with just butter enough to 
prevent their burning ; toss them about until 
a delicate color ; season with salt and pepper, 
and serve surrounded with tomato sauce. 

Sweetbreads Broiled. — Parboil them, and 
remove all sinews. Pour over them cold water, 
and drain in a napkin. Cut them in long, not 
too thin, slices ; brush over them a little fine 
olive oil, and broil a delicate brown. Serve 



54 SWEETBREADS STEWED. 

with them a butter sauce, or green pease, string 
beans, or a puree of spinach or sorrel. 

Sweetbreads Stewed. — Parboil a pair 
of large sweetbreads, then trim off the ragged 
parts and sinews, and cut them into neat pieces. 
Put them into a saucepan with just water enough 
to cover them ; add a litde salt, two whole 
peppers, two whole cloves, and a small piece of 
bay leaf. Simmer three-quarters of an hour. 
Remove the sweetbreads and the seasoning. 
Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a gill of 
cream ; while beating, add the broth in spoon- 
fuls, and also add a teaspoonful of flour which 
has been mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk or cream ; beat all together thoroughly, 
and place on back of range until it thickens, 
but do not let it boil. Season the sweetbreads 
with salt and a dash of cayenne, add them to 
the sauce, and serve when quite hot. 

Sweetbreads with Scrambled Eggs. — 
Boil a pair of sweetbreads three-quarters of an 
hour ; drain and cool them. Remove all skin and 
sinews, and cut the sweetbreads into neat square 
pieces. Put them in a frying pan with a little 
olive oil, and when hot break over them three 
eggs ; mix the eggs well with the sweetbreads. 
Have ready a few slices of neatly-trimmed toast ; 
arrange the slices on a hot platter, and add the 
cooked ingredients. 



GOLOASH, HUNGARIAN STYLE. 55 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Goloash, Hungarian style. — This is a 
very good luncheon dish. Put into a frying pan 
half an ounce of fat, and when very hot add a 
tablespoonful of chopped onion, and a teaspoon- 
ful of flour ; when brown, add half a pound of 
tenderloin steak cut into pieces as large as dice. 
Cut up a medium-sized potato into pieces the 
same size, and add to the dish ; now add half a 
pint of broth or hot water, half a teaspoonful 
of Hungarian pepper, salt to taste, then cover, 
and let the dish simmer half an hour. 

Spring Chicken Paprika. — This is a dish 
which is likely to be appreciated more by people 
who keep late hours than others. Cut a raw 
spring chicken into neat pieces, and saute them 
three minutes in a pan ; add half a teaspoonful 
of paprika, and hot water enough to prevent 
burning; and the length of time necessary to 
cook the bird depends on the youth of the 
chicken. When done, add salt and a dust of 
nutmeg. 

Oyster and Chicken Pie. — Cut up a 
small chicken at the joints, remove the skin. 



56 CHICKEN, ECONOMICAL USE OF. 

Put in a frying pan half an ounce of butter pre- 
viously dredged with flour ; when hot add the 
chicken ; toss it about a few moments, and add 
a pint of hot water, season to suit the taste, and 
simmer slowly three-quarters of an hour. Put 
into a pudding dish a tablespoonful of pieces of 
fat bacon ; add a layer of oysters and then the 
pieces of chicken, another layer of oysters and 
the chicken broth ; add the smallest bit of mace, 
and cover the top with paste ; bake forty min- 
utes ; when done brush over the top a very little 
melted butter. 

A pie made of beefsteak and oysters is a very 
appetizing dish, and is prepared much as the 
foregoing. In fact, meat and shellfish pies are 
always acceptable at luncheon. 

Chicken, Economical use of. — When a 
large chicken is purchased for soup, or a sauce, 
cut two neat slices from the breast, and dip 
them in beaten egg ; roll in crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat ; serve with sauce tartar. There will be 
c[uite enough left for other purposes. 

Calf's Liver en Brochette. — Calf's liver 
is not by any means a dish to be despised, but 
the manner in which it is usually served has 
brought it into disrepute. The butcher should 
cut the slices neatly and not wedge shaped ; then 
cut them into two-inch squares. Cut a few 



A LENTEN LUNCHEON DISH. 57 

slices of bacon the same size ; arrange them al- 
ternately on wooden skewers, and broil ; squeeze 
a little lemon juice over them, dust over a little 
salt and pepper, and serve. 

A Lenten Luncheon Dish. — Trim off 
all crust from three slices of bread, and grate 
the bread into a small round tin. Moisten it 
v/ith milk ; break into the dish three eggs ; add 
salt and pepper to taste, and break the eggs 
slightly ; strew over the dish a layer of grated 
Parmesan or American cheese, and bake a deli- 
cate brown. 

Potted Pigeons. — A jar of pigeons is a 
very convenient thing to have in the house when 
friends arrive unexpectedly. Clean a dozen 
pigeons thoroughly. Put into a wide, short jar 
a layer of sliced onion ; add the pigeons, and 
strew over them a tablespoonful of mixed whole 
spice ; cover them with vinegar, and let them 
stand over night ; drain. Put into a saucepan 
a layer of sliced bacon, and strew over it a thin 
layer of chopped onion ; add the pigeons, and 
a bay leaf, a blade of mace, a dozen cloves, 
and a teaspoonful of whole allspice ; cover, and 
allow them to cook slowly an hour ; then add 
a pint of clear soup ; cover, and allow them to 
cook an hour longer ; remove the birds, strain 
the sauce, and skim off the fat. Put the birds in 



58 BLACKBIRDS EN BROCHETTE. 

a jar, add the sauce, and keep in a cool place 
until wanted. 

When birds of almost all kinds are reason- 
able in price, they are are invariably at their 
best; and families should liberally patronize 
them, as they are a most acceptable change 
from a monotonous diet of meats fresh from the 
butcher. 

Blackbirds en Brochette. — Clean the 
birds nicely ; arrange them on skewers with alter- 
nate layers of pieces of bacon; brush a little 
melted butter over the birds, and broil over a 
slow fire six minutes. When done, pour a litde 
maitre-d'hotel butter over them, and serve on 
skewers. (All birds such as rice, reed, sparrows, 
and all small birds of the snipe family, may be 
served in this manner.) 

Calf's Brains are often neglected by many 
who sei*ve calf s head, one reason being that they 
do not know how to prepare them. For luncheon 
the following mode is the best. 

Croquettes of Calf's Brains. — Let the 
brain stand in cold water an hour, wash it well, 
and remove the membranous covering carefully 
without injuring the appearance of the brain ; 
put it in a saucepan ; add a quart of water, for 
each whole brain half a teaspoonful of salt and 
two tablespoonfuls of white wine vinegar. Sim- 



STEWED BEEF WITH DUMPLINGS. 59 

mer half an hour, and the brain is ready to serve 
with ahiiost any kind of sauce, or to be cut into 
sUces, dipped into egg or batter, and fried. To 
make croquettes, mince the brain fine ; add one 
minced boiled sweetbread, a tablespoonful of 
fine cracker dust, the yolk of two eggs, a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, two of salt, and a few 
spoonfuls of milk, just enough to make a thick 
paste, and keep on ice until wanted. When 
firm, shape it into cones, corks, or balls, dip 
them in beaten egg, then roll in crumbs, and 
drop them in a pan full of hot fat ; drain them a 
moment on a thick towel, arrange them neatly 
on a hot dish, garnish with tufts of parsley and 
slices of lemon, and serve. 

Stewed Beef with Dumplings. — Select 
the ends of the roast before it is cooked, or the 
ends of the meat purchased for steak. Cut it 
in neat even-sized pieces, and if too fat remove 
a part of it. Put in a frying pan a quantity of 
the surplus fat, and when it liquefies add a table- 
spoonful of minced onion, fry quite brown, then 
add about two pounds of the meat, toss it about 
a few minutes until the sides of each piece are 
slighdy fried; then add hot water enough to 
partly cover the meat ; bruise six whole peppers, 
and add them with thtee whole cloves, a stalk 
or two of celery, and part of a small cherry pep- 



6o FLANK STEAK. 

per ; simmer two and a half hours, take out the 
meat, and strain the sauce. Peel and parboil a 
dozen small potatoes, put six of them in a stew- 
pan, add the meat, then the six other potatoes, 
pour in the strained sauce, and if on hand add 
three half pints of soup stock, if not add hot 
water ; simmer thirty minutes, and add a liberal 
quantity of dumplings ; cover, and boil slowly fif- 
teen minutes longer. Put the ingredients on a 
platter, have them arranged neatly, and boil the 
sauce rapidly until reduced one- third, taste it for 
seasoning, pour it over the dish of beef, potatoes, 
and dumplings, and serve. Prepare the dump- 
ling as follows : Three half-pints of sifted flour, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, two-thirds of 
a teaspoonful salt ; mix with three gills of luke- 
warm milk, and add spoonfuls of dough to the 
stew. 

A very nice stew is made on the above plan 
by substituting veal, mutton, rabbits, or squirrels, 
for beef. 

Flank Steak. — Housekeepers do not thor- 
oughly appreciate this piece of meat; but 
butchers and professional cooks do, for they pre- 
fer it to tenderloin, although it rarely costs more 
than a trifle per pound. It is the boneless part 
of the flank, and is secretcrd between two layers 
of creamy fat. There are two ways of cutting 



ROAST TEXDERLOIX OF BEEF. 6l 

It for broiling purposes. One is to slice it diag- 
onally across the grain ; the other, to divide it in 
two, and trim off the uneven ends. It should 
be well basted with melted butter, or, better still, 
olive oil, and broiled oxer a moderate fire. 

This piece of meat is most excellent for mak- 
ing many kinds of made dishes, and is at its best 
when used as potted or rolled or spiced beef. 

It makes a delicious beefsteak pie, and is one 
of the most economical and useful cuts of the 
animal. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef. — Select a 
piece cut from the largest end of the tenderloin, 
trim off most of the fat, and cut away the tough 
case-like covering. Lard it nicely, put it in a 
baking tin, surround it with a few young carrots, 
turnips, and potatoes ; season nicely with salt, 
pepper, and the slightest suspicion of nutmeg. 
Add a little hot water or stock, and bake. When 
done put the pan on top of the range, pour in 
half a pint of hot water, and let it simmer a 
moment, then strain into a frying pan ; add half 
a gill of sherry and a teaspoon ful of browned 
flour ; simmer and sdr ; when quite thick add a 
few chopped mushrooms, and serve with the 
uieat. 

Lamb's Liver. — This is a tidbit rarely 
served at the tables of private families, but wO 



62 LA.AIU'S LIVER, SAUl K, WITH ru'J'ATOES. 

recommend it when obtainable. It is not only 
tender, but it has a delicate flavor which is 
highly appreciated by epicures. 

Cut into thin slices, and fried or broiled, it is 
quite acceptable. 

When served en brocJiette it will be found an 
excellent luncheon dish. 

Lamb's Liver, saute, with Potatoes. — 
Cut the liver into thin slices, and cut the slices 
into small square dice. Peel a few raw pota- 
toes, and cut them into dice the size of the 
pieces of liver. Put into a pan a little dripping, 
and add the pieces of liver. Put into another 
pan an equal amount of potatoes and dripping. 
Cook both about five minutes, and add the pota- 
toes to the liver. Now add a gill of broth or 
hot water, and cover the pan ; let simmer twenty- 
five minutes, and, should the liquid evaporate, 
add a little more to it. When the potatoes are 
tender, the dish is cooked. Then turn it into a 
hot dish, add salt and pepper, and strew over 
the top a few blades of chives cut with scissors. 

Lamb's Liver au Gratin. — Prepare and 
cook the dish as in the foregoing recipe. Then 
put it into a small tin, and strew over it a 
layer of grated cheese ; put into an oven, and, 
when brown, serve in tlie dish in which it was 
cooked. 



COLD TONGUE. 6^ 

Cold Tongue. — Cold tongue may be pre- 
pared for the luncheon table as in the recipes 
for cold ham, also as a curry, and as a salad it 
is delightful. When cut up small and cooked 
with eggs, and then served on toast, it is very 
nice ; one could not possibly object to it cooked 
as follows : — 

Cold Tongue with Nudels. — Cut into 
long, thin strips, six slices of cold tongue, sim- 
mer them for five minutes in hot water. Boil 
half a pound of broad nudels (which are ob- 
tained from the grocers) in milk enough to just 
cover ; simmer fifteen minutes, and drain. But- 
ter a mould or small baking tin, and line it with 
the nudels ; add a thin layer of the tongue and 
a layer of sliced mushrooms, another layer of 
nudels, and so on until the ingredients are used. 
Season with white pepper and very little salt ; 
add the milk in which the nudels were boiled ; 
strew over the top a thin layer of bread crumbs, 
and over these a liberal layer of grated cheese ; 
bake a delicate brown, and I am certain it will 
please. 

Nudels. — Germans are celebrated for " Nu- 
dels," or home-made macaroni, which take the 
place of the Italian preparations, and have the ad- 
vantage of one's knowing their composition when 
they are made at home. Work into two beaten 



64 VENISON STEAK, SAUCE BEARNAISE. 

eggs as much flour as they will take, and knead to 
a smooth, stiff dough ; divide this into six equal 
parts, and work them into balls ; put one at a 
time on a very smooth bread board, and roll it 
out with a straight even-surfaced rolling-pin until 
it is transparent in every part ; lay each sheet 
on a clean towel as soon as finished, and by the 
time the last ball is rolled out, the first will be 
dry enough to cut as follows : Cut the sheet into 
quarters, place them on top of each other with 
their cut edges quite even, and cut them with a 
sharp, thin, steel knife, into very narrow, cord- 
like stripes ; spread them apart to dry ; con- 
tinue this process until all are cut. The sheets 
may be stamped out with fancy-shaped cutters ; 
when doubled the forms will split apart when 
cooked. White nudels are made with flour and 
white of eggs. If intended for future use, dry 
them well, cover them with paper, and keep in 
a dry place. When wanted for soups, boil them 
twelve to fifteen minutes in the soup ; let them 
float on top a few minutes, and serve. 

Venison Steak, Sauce Bearnaise. — 
Venison can be served in as many ways as beef, 
and is supposed to be more easily digested. 
Select a thick steak from the leg, brush over it 
a little butter, or, better still, olive oil, and broil 
it. Put it on a hot dish, and squeeze a little 



SAUCE BEARXAISE. 65 

lemon juice over it ; pour around it a well-made 
sauce B^arnaise, and serve. 

Sauce Bearnaise. — Reduce a gallon of 
strong soup to a quari by long boiling, and keep 
it warm. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, turn 
tbem into a buttered saucepan, whisk them, and 
gradually add a pint of the reduced soup (which 
is called glaze) ; add, while whisking, a table- 
spoonful of vinegar strongly flavored with garlic 
(or, if liked, a quantity of the juice from bruised 
garlic or shallots), and the juice of a lemon. 
After beating the eggs, stir them in the pan 
continually with a wooden spoon, and do not 
let the sauce boil at any time ; when smooth, 
serve. 

A few mushrooms may be added to the sauce 
if desired. The mention of garlic may prevent 
many from trying this sauce, but a trial of it 
will convince one that the sauce is imperfect 
without the flavor of this odoriferous bulb. 

Venison Steak in Chafing Dish. — Se- 
lect a cutlet or rib chop, an inch thick, and 
having a thick border of fat. Put in a chafing 
dish a pat of butter ; light the spirit lamp, and 
when the butter melts, add the meat. Cook 
one side a few moments, then the other ; turn 
two or three times during the five to seven 
minutes cookincr. When half cooked, add half 



66 CHEESE TOAST. 

a gill of sherry, a heaping teaspoonful of currant 
jelly, salt and pepper. Turn the meat in the 
sauce, and cover the dish. Serve with hot 
plates, and pour the sauce over toast. 

Cheese Toast. — Put half an ounce of 
butter in a frying pan ; when hot, add gradually 
four ounces of mild American cheese. Whisk 
it thoroughly until melted. Beat together half 
a pint of cream and two eggs ; whisk into the 
cheese ; add a little salt, pour over toast, and 
serve. 

Cheese Fondu. — Melt an ounce of butter, 
and whisk into it a pint of boiled milk. Dis- 
solve two tablespoonfuls of flour in a gill of cold 
milk, add it to the boiled milk, and let it cool. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs with a heaping tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
and five ounces of grated cheese. Whip the 
whites of the eggs, and add them ; pour the 
mixture into a deep tin lined with buttered 
paper, and allow for the rising, say, four inches. 
Bake twenty minutes, and serve the moment it 
leaves the oven. 

Sausages. — Sausages left over from break- 
fast may be served at lunch, and when served 
with a water-cress salad they are a very appe- 
tizing dish. Sandwiches made from cold sau- 
sages, when cut lengthwise, are often served at 



HA^r. 67 

lunch ; the bread should not be much larger or 
longer than the thin slice of sausage. 

Ham. — Cold boiled ham becomes monoto- 
nous when served in one way continually, and 
the housewife should study variations. 

Deviled Ham is appetizing, and, when not 
too highly seasoned, ladies can enjoy it. Put 
into a dish a heaping teaspoonful of French 
mustard; thin it out with a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice ; add a scant saltspoonful of curry 
powder, and a dash of cayenne ; mix, and 
spread it over a slice of cold boiled ham ; broil 
this a moment, and serve with sliced lemon. 

Ham in Chafing Dish. — Put into a chaf- 
ing-dish half a teaspoonful of butter ; light the 
lamp, and when the butter melts add two table- 
spoonfuls of fruit jelly, and a dash of cayenne ; 
simmer, and add a tablespoonful of sherry ; 
simmer a slice of ham in this a few moments, 
and serve with toast. 

The ham may be cut fine and cooked as the 
foregoing if desired. 

There are many other appetizing forms in 
which cold ham may be served, and the house- 
keeper should experiment a little on her own 
responsibility. 

Ham a la Russe. — Select a small ham; 
trim off all rusty dooking parts, and scald the 



68 SPARE Rir,S WITH APPT.E FRITTERS. 

ham. Let it remain in the hot water five min- 
utes ; drain, and dry with a cloth. Prepare a 
dough, the same as for bread ; cover the ham 
with it, and bake in a moderate oven two hours ; 
remove the dough and tlie skin, (hist a httle 
sugar over the top, heat the coal shovel in the 
range, and hold it close enough to the sugar to 
singe it, then serve with or without sauce. 

Spare Ribs with Apple Fritters. — 
Select freshly-cut short ribs, well covered with 
meat ; cut them so as to have two ribs in each 
piece. Broil in the usual manner; pour over 
them a sauce made of lemon juice, salt, pepper, 
and a little French mustard, and serve with 
apple fritters. 

Frankfort Sausages. — These sausages, 
being smoked, are very appetizing. While they 
are characteristically a German dish, they may 
be made more healthful by much longer cook- 
ing than is usually given them. Our German 
brethren are quite satisfied with " Frankfurter " 
cooked but a few minutes ; but as these sau- 
sages contain pork, they, in my opinion, require 
twenty minutes' boiling. A very nice way of 
cooking them is to heat them in a hot frying pan 
a few minutes, then add boiling water, and boil 
them rapidly until done. If they can be steamed, 
they will be found excellent. 



pigs' feet. 69 

Pigs' Feet. — Over two prepared pig's feet, 
split in two, brush a little butter, and broil them. 
When done, squeeze a little lemon juice over 
them, add salt and a little cayenne. They may 
be served plain, or with any of the piquanfe 
sauces. 

(The " French " pigs' feet found in market 
are the most acceptable, as they are thoroughly 
cleaned, and some of them already boiled ; but 
I consider them better when placed raw in a 
marinade pickle for a few hours, then dried and 
either broiled or sautes. Pigs' feet deviled are 
a very good dish.) 



OYSTERS AND FISH 



CONTENTS. 





PAGS 


INTRODUCTORY . . . , 


. II 


THE OYSTER .... 


ri 


The Ovster Season 


. II 


Oysters out of Season* . 


12 


Oysters Preserved in Shell 


. 12 


The Food of the Oyster 


14 


FoR^^ATION of the Deep Shell . 


. 14 


Cock Oysters .... 


15 


Green Oysters . . . . 


• 15 


Banquet Oysters 


16 


Ordering Oysters for the Family 


Table, 17 


How Oysters should be Opened 


18 


How TO SERVE Raw Oysters 


. 18 


Collation Service . 


19 


How TO Eat a Raw Oyster 


• 19 


A Barrel of Oysters 


20 


Read This ! 


. 20 


COOKED OYSTERS . 


21 


Stewed Oysters . . . . 


. 21 


Philadelphia Fried Oysters . 


22 


Curry of Oysters . 


24 


Pickled- Oyster Omelet 


. 24 


Deviled Oysters on Toast 


24 


Pickled Oysters . . . . 


. 24 


Scalloped Oysters , 


25 



CONTENTS. 





PAGE 


Oyster Salad .... 


• 25 


Plain Fried Oysters 


26 


Miss Parloa's "New Cook- Book" 


. 26 


Oyster Toast .... 


. 26 


Oyster Omelet 


26 


Oysters, Broiled 


27 


Tripe with Oysters 


27 


Oysters en Brocheite 


• 27 


Fried Oysters .... 


. 28 


Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie 


28 


Oyster Patties .... 


. 28 


Oysters a la Poulette . 


29 


Pie of Oysters and Scallops 


. 29 


Steamed Oysters 


• 30 


To Serve Steamed Oysters . 


30 


Roast Oysters .... 


• 31 


Baked Oysters 


31 


CLAMS 


• 31 


Little- Neck Clams 


31 


Soft Clams in Chafing- Dish 


• 32 


Stewed Little-Neck Clams 


33 


Soft Clams 


• 33 


Soft-shell Clams Scalloped . 


33 


Clam Toast .... 


• 34 


Clam Broth .... 


34 


Clam Fritters .... 


• 34 


Fried Soft Clams . 


35 



CONTENTS. 


7 




PAGB 


CRABS 


35 


Hard-shell Crabs 


• 35 


Crab Paities, Cream Sauce . 


. Z^ 


Soft-shell Crabs 


• 37 


The Care of Sorr Crabs 


. 38 


Crabs, Soft-shell 


• 39 


Crab Croqueti'es . 


39 


Crab Patties, a la Bechamel 


. 40 


Crabs, a l'Americaine 


41 


Crabs, Deviled .... 


. 41 


SCALLOPS. ..... 


42 


Scallop Broth .... 


. 42 


Small Paities of Scallops 


43 


Fried Scallops .... 


• 43 


Scallops en Brochette . 


44 


Stewed Scallops .... 


. 44 


MUSSELS 


44 


The Mussel .... 


. 44 


THE LOBSTER . . . . 


45 


Remarks on the Lobster . 


• 45 


The Season for Lobster 


45 


Soft-shell Lobster not Edible . 


. 46 


Selecting Lobsters . . . . 


46 


Value of the Lobster as Food . 


. 46 


Broiled Lobster . . . . 


47 


Lobster Croquettes with Pease . 


. 48 


LOBSIERS EN BrOCHEITE . 


48 



8 



CONTENl'S. 



Deviled Lobster . 

Stewed Lobster, a la Creole 

Curry of Lobster 

Lobster Salad 
THE OYSTER CRAB . 

To Serve Oyster Crabs . 

Oyster-Crab Omelet . 

Oyster-Cr-4b Sauce . 

Acknowledgment . 
SHRIMPS .... 

Market Price of Shrimps . 

Shrimp Omelet 

Shrimp Sauce 
PRAWNS .... 

Curry of Prawns 

Prawns, Deviled, ex Coquii.le 

Prawns, Saute, a la Marengo 

Prawn Salad . 
CRAYFISH . 

Crayfish Omelet 
SALMON 

Salmon Steak . 

Canned S.almon . 

Salmon Patiies 

Salmon Surprise . 

Salmon a la Creole 

Salmon Pie . 



49 
49 
50 
50 
51 
52 
52 
52 
53 
53 
54 
54 
54 
54 
55 
55 
55 
56 
56 
57 
57 
57 
57 
58 
59 
59 
60 



CONTENTS. 



Salmon in Jelly 

Salmon Omelet . 

Salmon, GER^L\N Style . 

Salmon a l'Italienne . 

Salmon a la Hollandaise 

Salmon, Hunter's Styi,e 

Bouillabaisse .... 
CODFISH .... 

Boiled Codfish, Oyster Sauce 

Codfish Tongues 

Codfish Steak 

New-England Codfish Balls . 

Baked Cod .... 

Salt Codfish with Cream 

SCROD 

BROOK TROUT 

Brook Trout, Sportsman^ Style 

Broiled Trout 

Brook Trout, Baked 

Brook Trout, Boled 
MISCELLANEOliS 

Catfish, Fried 

Tenderloin Trout 

Fricasseed Eels 

Eel Patties 

Stewed Eels, Hoboken^ Turtla Club 

Pan Bass, Anchovy BtrniK 



PAGE 
60 

. 61 
61 

. 61 
62 

. 62 

63 
. 63 

63 

64 
. 64 

65 

. 66 

66 

. 67 

67 
. 68 

69 
. .69 

70 

• 70 
70 

. 71 
71 

. 72 
Ityle, 72 

• 73 



lO 



CONTENTS. 






PAGE 


Fillet of Flounder, Tartar Sauce 


• 74 


Fried Tomcods .... 


75 


Broiled Salt Codfish . 


• 75 


Broiled Salt Mackerel . 


76 


Fried Porgies with Saui- Pork . 


. 77 


Fish Curries 


78 


A Plain Fish Curry . 


. 7S 


Curry of Scallops .... 


78 


Curry of Crayfish 


. 79 


Curry of Eels, with Rice 


79 


Curry of Shad Roe . 


. 79 


Curry of Frogs' Legs . 


80 


Broiled Weakfish 


. 80 


Baked Whitefish, Bordeaux Sauce . 


81 


Halibut, Egg Sauce . 


. 82 


Egg Sauce 


82 


Fried Butterfish 


. 82 


Broiled Shad 


82 


Baked Shad 


. 83 


Shad Roe a la Pouleite 


83 


Broiled Royans .... 


. 84 


Broiled Sardines .... 


84 


Broiled Smelts, Sauce Tartare . 


. 84 


Smelts Fried, Sauce Tartare . 


85 


Broiled Whitefish 


. 85 


Sheep's-head with Drawn Butter . 


85 


Drawn Butter .... 


. 86 


Broiled Sheep's-head 


86 



INTRODUCTORY. 



Would it not be beneficial, were the average 
American to substitute fish for the everlasting 
steak and chop of the breakfast-table? 

For the sake of variety, if for no other rea- 
son, we should eat more fish ; and it need not 
always be fried or broiled. A well-made fish 
stew or a curry should be acceptable to the 
majority of us, and undoubtedly would be if 
appetizingly prepared. 

This little work does not by any means pro- 
pose to exhaust the subject of sea-food, for the 
subject is almost inexhaustible ; but it places 
within the reach of all a series of recipes and 
suggestions extremely valuable to the average 
housewife. 

THE OYSTER. 

The Oyster Season opens in the city of 
New York on the first day of September, and 
closes on the last day of April in each year. 



12 OVSTERS OUT OF SEASON. 

The annual amount of business done in the 
oyster trade is close on to $5,000,000. Each 
successive year witnesses an increase in the 
business. 

Notwithstanding the R canon, there are thou- 
sands of persons who eat oysters at the sum- 
mer resorts along the seashore throughout hot 
weather. 

Oysters out of Season. — The writer 
does not recommend the eating of oysters out 
of their season, no matter how fresh they may 
be, or how appetizing they may appear. 

To supply the demands made upon them by 
summer resorts, oyster-planters shift the oysters, 
during the spawning season, from warm shallow 
water to cold deep water. This checks or pre- 
vents the oysters from spawning, and to all 
appearance they are edible ; but the writer 
firmly believes that interfering with the laws 
of nature affects the health of the oyster, and 
they cannot be as wholesome as planters would 
have us believe. 

Oysters Preserved in Shell. — So long 
as the oyster retains its natural juices, it will 
live out of water, provided the changes in the 
temperature are not too sudden. The moment 
the oyster opens its shells, however, the juices 
run out, and in a short time afterward the oyster 



OYSTERS PRESERVED IN SHELL. 1 3 

dies. To prevent the oyster opening its stony 
overcoat, is tlie object of oyster-shippers ; and 
the Patent Office bears witness to their many 
devices having this object in view. Some wire 
the shells, others clasp or envelope the broad 
end of the shells with tin or otiier rnetal. No 
doubt these devices aid in keeping the oyster 
alive and fresh a little longer. Whether the 
nervous system of the oyster is affected b)' the 
process, is a question. Scientists tell us that 
oysters possess organs of sensation, and all 
who have handled oysters learn in time that 
a sudden jar or shock will kill them. The jar 
of the machinery of a steamboat will some- 
times kill an oyster. When shipped to Europe 
they are ordered to be stored as far away from 
the machinery as possible. Some authorities 
claim that the oyster can hear. One cannot 
noisily approach an oyster-bed at feeding time 
without their hearing, and instantly every shell 
is closed. A cloud or a boat passing over an 
oyster-bank will cause every shell to close with 
proverbial tightness, and the sound of thunder 
will often kill them while they are in transit, — 
conclusive evidence that the nervous system 
in an oyster, while not highly developed, is of 
sufficient importance to merit attention from 
those who roughly handle oysters. 



!4 THE FOOD OF THE OVSTER. 

The Food of the Oyster consists of 
minute animal and vegetable organisms and 
small particles of organized matter. Ordinary 
sea-water contains an abundance of this sort 
of food, which is drawn into the gills with the 
water. As the water strains through the pores 
into the water tubes, the food particles are 
caught on the surface of the gills by a layer of 
adhesive slime. As soon as they are entangled, 
the microscopic hair-like projections on the 
gills strike against them in such a way as to 
slide them along the gills toward the mouth. 
When they reach the anterior ends of the gills, 
they are pushed off, and fall between the lips, 
which are also covered with thin hair-like pro- 
jections, which carry the particles forward un- 
til they slide into the mouth. No wonder the 
intelligent tramp wished that he might become 
an oyster. His food would then come to him 
in a sort of endless progression. 

Formation of the Deep Shell. —Al- 
though the oyster lies upon the bottom with 
one shell above and one below, the shells are 
not upon the top and bottom of the body, 
but upon the right and left sides. The two 
shells are symmetrical in the young oyster ; but 
after it becomes attached, the lower or attached 
side grows faster than the other, and becomes 



cock: oysters. 15 

deep and spoon-shaped, while the free valve 
remains nearly flat. In nearly every case the 
lower or deep valve is the left. 

Cock Oysters. — There is a belief among 
oyster-eaters, that the dark-gray or black oys- 
ters are male oysters, and are therefore superior 
to the female oyster. Such misinformation was 
evidently promulgated by oyster-openers in anti- 
cipation of a tip for serving selected oysters. 
There is no truth in the assertion, however, for 
there are just as many black female oysters as 
there are black male oysters. There is no char- 
acteristic color by which a male or cock oyster 
can be distinguished from a female oyster. 
Microscopic examination, or a scientific eye, is 
the means of discovering the sex of an oyster. 

The black-oyster romance is of ancient ori- 
gin. The Roman oyster-smashers successfully 
"worked it" on Pliny, Horace, and other 
ancient writers and epicures. 

Green Oysters. — At least a million dollars 
worth of oysters are annually destroyed in New- 
York waters by sludge acid from the oil refin- 
eries and illegal dumpings. The acid kills the 
oysters the instant it touches them, and turns 
them green. There is very little danger that a 
poisoned oyster will reach the consumer, but the 
loss to the planter is enormous. 



1 6 KANQUET OYSTERS. 

The green tint of the oyster, or in fact any 
distinguished color the oyster may possess, is due 
to the color of its food and to the nature of the 
surrounding bottom. The bottom of the Shrews- 
bury River is mud ; the oysters take on a pecu- 
liar tawny color from their muddy bed. Rock- 
away oysters exist on a hard sandy bottom. If 
the beds are covered with sea-lettuce, as they 
often are, the oysters take on a delicate green 
tint. When the lettuce is removed by a strong 
tide or high wind, the oysters gradually assume 
their white, slightly grayish color. Their shells 
are round, thin, and brittle. The shells from 
mud bottoms are long, narrow, thick, and 
spongy. Intruded mud is enclosed by a thin 
layer of pearly shell. 

The oyster epicure may rest assured of one 
fact. No matter what the color of an oyster may 
be, so long as it is alive and seasonable it is 
wholesome. It cannot absorb enough foreign 
matter to injure the epicure without committing 
suicide, and there is no possible danger of any 
one swallowUig a dead oyster. 

Banquet Oysters. — As served at the aver- 
age public banquet, the raw oyster is a thing of 
terror to appetite and to weak digestive organs. 
When looking for one's seat, where, through an 
oversight, one is not furnished with a chart of 



ORDERING OYSTERS FOR THE TABLE. I7 

the tables, one beholds six very small emaciated 
oysters. The heat in the room has absorbed 
their moisture, afterwards the bed of fine ice on 
which they were placed has melted, and the 
water overflowed them, thereby finishing the work 
of destruction. One must be under the influence 
of the sherry and Vermouth of the reception- 
rooms, to be willing to begin the feast with such 
an introductory course. No wonder fashionable, 
society demands a substitute for the oyster as 
the dinner season progresses. In the name 
of humanity, order the oysters to table and 
announce the dinner at the same time. Guests 
are willing to wait a few moments for toothsome 
oysters, provided they are direct from the ice- 
box. 

Ordering Oysters for the Family 
Table. — Send the servant to the nearest 
dealer, a few minutes before the oysters are 
wanted, and let her wait for them. In this way 
one is quite sure of procuring freshly opened 
oysters. Man)'* dealers begin opening oysters 
for their family orders hours before they are 
to be served ; and the result is, they have lost 
much of their juices before being served. 

Miss Parloa's " New Cook Book " says, " Six 
large oysters are usually allowed each person." 
This error should be corrected in future editions. 



l8 HOW OYSTERS SHOULD BE OPENED. 

Large raw oysters on the half-shell are only 
served at oyster- counters to countrymen, and 
are not served at a dinner, no matter how un- 
pretentious or how elaborate the affair may be. 

How Oysters should be opened. — 
In the author's work on " Luncheon," reference 
is made to the great care which should be 
exercised in opening oysters ; and it will bear 
repeating. Reject all oysters opened by the 
" smashing " process. The shells are not only 
broken and ragged, but, should a person swallow 
a ragged sphnter of oyster-shell, there is great 
danger of its killing him. Insist on it that 
your oysters are opened by the so-called " stab- 
bing " process. 

How to serve Raw Oysters. — If for 
a quiet family affair, where '• opened " oysters 
are used, keep the plates in ice-water, and dry 
them before placing the oysters on them. For 
more pretentious affairs, but where fancy oyster- 
plates are not a part of the dinner service, use 
soup-plates. Fill them with fine cracked ice, 
place a dainty doily over each, and set the 
oysters on top of the doily. The lemon should 
be served on a side-dish, and not in the centre 
of the dish as though one were dining in a res- 
taurant. Four small Rockaways are sufficient 
to serve at the ordinary course dinner. In nine 



COLLATION SERVICE. 1 9 

cases are out of ten, Rockaways are served in- 
stead of the Blue Points. It is therefore advisable 
to order the former ; the dealer might make a mis- 
take if he had them in stock, and send the latter. 

It is quite English to serve raw oysters on the 
flat half-shell, but it is quite American to serve 
them on the deep shell. The American way is 
the best. 

Collation Service. — At evening collations, 
the oysters are ser\'ed in the centre of a block of 
ice. A clear, square block of ice is selected, and 
a cavity or receptacle is made in it by the aid of 
a hot flat-iron held close to the ice. If one has 
patience, the cavity may be shaved out with an 
ice shave ; if a pick is used, one is likely to 
split the cake of ice. An ice boat is easily 
formed by holding a hot flat-iron to a long piece 
of ice. Holes may be made through the bot- 
tom of the block of ice, and filled with brilliant 
flowers ; and the outer sides and top should be 
handsomely decorated with flowers and smilax. 
If electric lights are used in the house, it is an 
easy matter to place them in the cake of ice : 
the effect is striking. The wires are carried from 
the room below the dining-room, or under the 
carpet. 

How to eat a Raw Oyster. — Avoid as 
much as possible the use of condiments, when 



20 A BARREL OF OYSTERS. 

eating oysters. They were never intended as 
an accompaniment of the oyster, and are only 
used by country people, A suspicion of lemon ; 
a dash of salt when the dealer has kept them 
covered with cracked ice, and the descending 
ice-water washed out all sea flavor; and, for 
palates grown callous, a dash of cayenne. Such 
abominations as ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, 
etc., should never be used. Do not bolt the 
oyster, but masticate it ; and one will soon learn 
to tell the different oysters by their different 
flavors. By bolting them, one will never know 
how to thoroughly appreciate them. 

A Barrel of Oysters. — Persons living 
away from the city are advised to purchase 
oysters by the barrel. If kept with the deep 
shell down, and in a cool place, they will live a 
long time. The novice is likely to bruise fingers 
in vain attempts to open them ; but, like carving, 
the opening of oysters should be part of a 
man's education. Then there is the charm of 
roasting the oysters in the old-fashioned fire- 
place. Here the novice may burn a finger or 
two, but then it's fun for the youngsters. 

Read this ! — In W. Mattieu Williams's 
" Chemistry of Cookery," I find the following : 
" More than half a century has elapsed since 
Dr. Beaumont published the results of his ex- 



STEWED OYSTERS. 21 

periments on Alexis St. Martin. These showed 
that fresh raw oysters required two hours and 
fifty-five minutes to digest, and stewed fresh 
oysters three and a half hours for digestion ; 
against one hour for boiled tripe, and three 
hours for roast or boiled beef or mutton." 

The general impression among the people is, 
that raw oysters digest almost as soon as they 
become of the same temperature of the stomach. 



COOKED OYSTERS. 

Stewed Oysters. — Boil half a pint of 
milk ; add to it eleven good-sized oysters, a 
walnut of butter, a dash of salt and of pepper. 
Allow the milk to boil up just once, and 
serve. 

The average cook puts the oysters on first, 
and after they boil cold milk is added. When 
the milk boils, the stew is served. The result 
oi such treatment of the oyster causes it to 
shrivel so that it is hardly recognizable, and a 
good-sized oyster becomes a mere sprat. From 
this process of cooking originated the ancient 
moth-eaten jokes about church-fair stews. 

Cooked as in the foregoing recipe, the oyster 
retains its plump characteristics. 



22 PHILADELPHIA FRIED OYSTERS. 

Philadelphia Fried Oysters. — The au- 
thor originally published this recipe in the New 
York " Evening Sun " by request. 

The average New Yorker may call the City of 
Brotherly Love a sleepy sort of a place, but it 
is wide enough awake gastronomically. It has 
within its city limits cooks who prepare fried 
oysters that fairly melt in one's mouth. They 
are so delicate that there is not a pang of dys- 
pepsia in a whole winter's supply of the tooth- 
some dainties. The reputation of Finneli's 
Philadelphia fried oysters extends from Maine 
to California; and immense sums have been 
offered for the recipe, but its owner would not 
sell his secret at any price. 

Beat up three eggs thoroughly ; add half a 
pint of oyster-juice, a pepper-spoonful of cay- 
enne, a saltspoonful of black pepper, a table- 
spoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of English 
mustard. Work the mixture to a batter, and 
gradually add a gill of oil. Now comes the 
more particular part of the formula. Cover a 
board or part of a table with a layer of cracker- 
crumbs half an inch deep. Drain fifty oysters 
free from liquid, place them on the cracker- 
crumbs, and dredge over them more cracker- 
crumbs. See to it that one oyster is not on top 
of another. Pick up each oyster by its beard, 



PHILADFXPHIA FRIED OYSTERS. 23 

and dip it in the batter. Have ready a quan- 
tity of bread-crumbs grated from the white part 
of stale bread ; spread this out on the table, and 
after the oysters have been dipped in the batter 
lay them carefully on the bread-crumbs two 
inches apart. After they are all spread out, turn 
them over neatly, which will bread-crumb the 
other side. Dip them in the batter again by 
taking hold of the beard, and again spread them 
out on the bread-crumbs. Under no circum- 
stances place one oyster on top of another, or 
in any way press them together ; this would 
make them heavy. When the fat is so hot that 
the smoke from it would light a match, then fry 
them by again taking hold of the beard, one at 
a time, and dropping them into the fat. When 
they are dark brown, take them up, and strew 
over them a quantity of salt. 

The secret is in carefully handhng the oyster 
after it has been breaded. How differently 
New York restaurants serve fried oysters ! In 
almost every eating place in the city, one sees 
piles of oysters covered with a batter that plainly 
shows the cook purposely pressed them between 
his hands. When served they look more like 
liver-pads than human food. Nothing short of a 
human ostrich could possibly digest them. The 
Philadelphia oyster, however, is a culinary poem. 



24 CURRY OF OYSTERS. 

Curry of Oysters. — Put an ounce of but- 
ter in a pan ; add to it a teaspoon of curry-pow- 
der, and water enough to prevent burning. Put 
fifteen oysters in just water enough to cover 
them, simmer three minutes, and drain ; thicken 
the broth with a teaspoonful of flour, salt to 
taste, stir this into the curry ; add the oysters, 
simmer a moment, and serve with boiled rice. 

Pickled - Oyster Omelet. — Rinse six 
spiced or pickled oysters in cold water. Divide 
an ounce of butter into litde balls, and roll them 
in flour ; put them in a saucepan, heat gradu- 
ally, and whisk to a cream ; add a gill of hot 
water, salt and pepper. Cut the oysters in two, 
and add to the butter. Prepare an omelet in 
the usual manner ; before folding, add the oys- 
ters ; turn out on a hot dish, and serve. 

Deviled Oysters on Toast. — Mix to- 
gether a heaping saltspoonful of mustard flour, 
half a saltspoonful each of white pepper and 
salt, and the yolk of one egg. Dip six oysters 
in the paste, then in fine crumbs, and broil over 
a moderate fire. When done, arrange on toast, 
and scjueeze over them the juice of half a lemon. 

Pickled Oysters. — A few^ pickled oysters 
may be served instead of clams during warm 
weather. Scald a quart of oysters a moment, 
drain, and put them in jars. To a pint of oyster 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 25 

liquor, add half a pint of hot water and half a 
pint of hot vinegar ; pour over the oysters ; add 
three cloves, four whole peppers, a small bit of 
mace, and a slice of lemon, to each jar. This 
will be sufficient for two ordinary fruit-jars. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Put in the bottom 
of a yellow dish two ounces of sweet butter, 
divided into little pieces. Add a layer of raw 
oysters, and cover them with cracker-dust or 
bread-crumbs, and add salt and pepper to taste ; 
another layer of oysters, and so on until the dish 
is full, the last or top layer to be crumbs, and 
between each layer there should be a small 
amount of butter. Moisten the ingredients with 
a hberal quantity of oyster liquid, put small but- 
ter balls on top of the dish, and bake a delicate 
brown color. Oysters were formerly baked in 
a scalloped or shell-shaped dish, hence the 
name. 

Oyster Salad. — Boil two dozen small oys- 
ters for five minutes in water enough to cover 
them ; add a little salt and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar ; drain and cool. Put into a salad-bowl 
the centre leaves of two heads of cabbage let- 
tuce, add the oysters whole, pour over them a 
mayonnaise ; garnish with oyster-crabs, hard- 
boiled eggs, and, if liked, a few anchovies cut 
into fillets. 



26 PLAIN FRIED OYSTERS. 

Plain Fried Oysters. — As a nile, fried 
oysters are not served as a breakfast dish, owing 
to the coating with which they are usually sur- 
rounded. Served plain, however, they are quite 
acceptable. Dry them well in a napkin, and 
roll them in a little flour to insure that they are 
quite dry, then cook them in a very little hot 
dripping. 

Miss Parloa's " New Cook-Book " says, " a 
quart of oysters is enough for a party of ten " 
(p. ii8). There are from twenty to twenty-five 
oysters in a quart, rarely more than this. 

Oyster Toast. — Select fifteen plump oys- 
ters ; chop them fine, and add salt, pepper, and 
a suspicion of nutmeg. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with a gill of cream ; whisk this into the 
simmering oysters. When set, pour the whole 
over slices of buttered toast. 

Oyster Omelet. — Stew six oysters in their 
own liquor for five minutes ; remove the oysters, 
and thicken the liquid with a walnut of butter 
rolled in flour ; season with salt and cayenne ; 
whisk this to a cream. Chop the oysters, and 
add them to the sauce ; simmer until the sauce 
thickens. Beat up four eggs lightly, and add a 
tablespoonful of cream ; turn out into a hot pan, 
and fry a light gold-color. Before folding the 
omelet entirely, place the oysters with part of 



OYSTERS BROILED. 27 

the sauce within, and turn it over on a hot dish. 
The remainder of the sauce should be poured 
round it. 

Oysters Broiled. — Rub the bars of a wire 
broiler with a little sweet butter ; dry twelve 
large, plump oysters in a napkin, and place them 
on the broiler ; brush a little butter over them, 
and broil over a fire free from flame and smoke. 
When done on both sides, arrange them neatly 
on toast ; pour a little well-seasoned melted 
butter over them, and serve. 

Do not bread-crumb oysters intend for 
broiling. 

Tripe with Oysters. — Tripe, when prop- 
erly prepared by a simple process, is very nutri- 
tious and easily digested. 

Cut up half a pound of well-washed tripe ; 
simmer for three-quarters of an hour in water 
slightly salted ; take out the tripe ; add to the 
broth a little butter rolled in flour, salt and pep- 
per; add a little more flour if not thick enough. 
Return the tripe and a dozen oysters ; simmer 
for a few minutes longer, and serve. 

Oysters en Brochette. — Select one dozen 
choice oysters ; plunge them into hot water a 
second to make them firm (this process is called 
blanching), then drain, and dip them into melted 
butter ; arrange them on skewers with alternate 



28 PRIED OYSTERS. 

layers of neatly sliced bacon ; broil over a moder- 
ate fire. When done, add maitre-d'hotel butter 
to them, and serve on the skewers. 

Fried Oysters. — Beat up the yolks of four 
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and 
season them with a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of cayenne pepper ; beat up thor- 
oughly. Dry twelve fat oysters on a napkin ; dip 
them in the egg batter, then in cracker- dust ; 
shake off the loose cracker-dust, dip them again 
in the egg batter, and lasdy roll them in fine 
bread-crtwibs. Fry in very hot fat, using fat 
enough to cover them. The oil gives them a 
nice flavor. 

Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie. — One 
pound of best canned salmon, one pint of solid 
oysters, half a pint of oyster liquid ; cover the 
bottom of the dish with neat pieces of the sal- 
mon, season with salt and pepper and an ounce 
of butter rolled in flour, add a few oysters, and 
so on until the ingredients are used. Pour 
in the liquid of both, and cover the top with 
paste. Bake in a moderate oven. There should 
be liquid enough to have the ingredients moist 
when served. 

Oyster Patties. — Roll out a pound of light 
puff-paste, half an inch in thickness ; cut it 
into rounds with a cake-cutter two inches in 



OYSTERS A LA POL'LETTE. 29 

diameter ; press a small cutter one inch in 
diameter, on each round, one-fourth of an inch 
deep. Place them on a buttered tin, brush a 
little beaten egg over them, and bake in a quick 
oven. When done, remove the centre and a 
little of the inside. Scald (or, as it is called, 
blanch) three dozen oysters ; drain. Put into 
a saucepan two ounces of butter, whisk it to a 
cream ; add a teaspoonful of flour, stir free from 
lumps ; add a heaping saltspoonful of salt, and 
a pepperspoonful of white pepper ; whisk into it 
half a pint each of hot cream and the oyster 
liquor ; allow it to simmer a few minutes and to 
thicken ; then add the oysters and a "squeeze " 
of lemon-juice ; when hot fill the shells, and 
serve. If nutmeg is not objected to, a httle may 
be used. 

Oysters a la Poulette. — Blanch (scald) 
a dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain them, 
and add to the liquor, salt, half an ounce of 
butter, the juice of half a lemon, a gill of cream^ 
and a teaspoonful of dissolved flour. Beat the 
yolk of one egg, and add to the sauce. Stir until 
the sauce thickens ; place the oysters on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over them, add a very little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Pie of Oysters and Scallops. — Take 
one pint of fresh scallops, and wash them in cold 



30 STEAMED OYSTERS. 

water ; drain, and dry them in a napkin. Cut a 
few slices of fat bacon in strips small enough to 
insert the ends in a larding-needle ; lard the 
scallops with them, and dredge them slightly 
with flour. Select one quart of fat oysters ; line 
a baking-dish witli puff-paste ; add the scallops 
and oysters in layers ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a dash of mace. Divide an ounce of butter 
into little balls, roll them in flour, and put them 
between the layers ; add the oyster liquor. 
Cover with a top crust ; bake forty minutes in 
a moderate oven. 

Steamed Oysters. — Wash and scrub the 
shells thoroughly, and rinse them off in cold 
water. Put them in a steamer, large or deep 
shell down. Put the steamer on top of a pot 
of boiling water ; steam about six minutes, or 
until the shells separate. Have ready a hot dish 
containing melted butter seasoned with a dash 
of Worcestershire, lemon-juice, salt and cayenne. 
Remove them from the steamer with gloved 
hands, and pick out the oysters with a flat 
knife, saving all the juice possible. Dip the 
oysters in the butter as you open them, and 
the number one can eat is surprising. 

To serve Steamed Oysters. — Steam 
them as in the foregoing recipe. At each guest's 
place at table have ready little saucers containmg 



RQAST OYSTERS. 3 I 

a quantity of the hot melted butter. Remove 
the flat shell, and serve the oyster in the lower 
shell ; send about six oysters to each guest at a 
time. 

Roast Oysters. — Clean the shells thor- 
oughly, and place them on the coals in an open 
fire-place, or remove the top of range, and put 
them on the live coals, until they snap open, 
which they will soon do. Care must be exer- 
cised not to burn fingers. 

At evening, young folks like the fun of roasting 
oysters in the furnace below stairs, and eating 
them from the shell as fast as the host can open 
them. 

Baked Oysters. — Clean the shells thor- 
oughly, and fill a dripping-pan with them, deep 
shell down. Look at them after ten minutes. 
If the shells are all opened, they are cooked 
enough. Melted butter, nicely seasoned, is the 
only sauce to serve with them. 



CLAMS. 



Little-Neck Clams. — From the first of 
September until the first of May in the following 
year, the clam — which is richer in nutrition 
than the ovster — is as meek and as s^entle as a 



32 SOFT CLAMS IN CHAFING-DISH. 

clam can be. Yet it submits to all sorts of 
indignities from the oyster, and has never been 
known to talk back during the period men- 
tioned. After the first of May, however, its 
manner changes, and it assumes metropolitan 
airs. It lords it over the oyster as a bantam 
struts around a helpless foe ; and it plainly 
intimates to the oyster that moving-day was 
invented to celebrate its departure. 

After May i, the clam must be recognized as 
the ava7it-coureu7- of all dainty feasts. No sum- 
mer dinner or supper of any pretensions is con- 
sidered complete without the small clam. All 
the small clams in market are supposed to 
come from Little Neck, Long Island. Not one- 
quarter of the supply comes from this locality. 

Soft Clams in Chafing-Dish. — Select a 
dozen large Guilford clams, wash them thor- 
oughly, and plunge them into boiling water for 
a moment. Drain and open them, and use the 
round plump part only. Put in a chafing-dish 
a pat of butter, and when quite hot add a dash 
of flour, and cayenne to suit the taste ; add the 
clams, and when they are slightly cooked add 
a gill of light sherry. Cover the dish, and allow 
it to simmer five minutes. Have ready three 
slices of toast, put four clams upon each slice, 
add a little of the hot sherry, and serve. 



STEWED LITTLE-NECK CLAMS. 33 

Stewed Little-Neck Clams.— Get two 
dozen freshly opened, very small clams. Boil a 
pint of milk, a dash of white pepper, and a small 
pat of butter. Now add the clams. Let them 
come to a boil, and ser\^e. Longer boiling will 
make the clams almost indigestible. 

Soft Clams. — Select a dozen soft-shell 
clams ; wash them well ; remove the shells ; 
trim off the tough neck ; place each clam on a 
half-shell, and add to each half a teaspoonful of 
finely-chopped bacon, a little cayenne, a very 
small bit of onion, and a pat of butter rolled in 
flour ; strew over the top a little grated Parmesan 
cheese, and bake to a delicate brown. Cracker- 
crumbs may be used instead of the cheese if 
preferred. 

Soft-Shell Clams, Scalloped. — Purchase 
a dozen large soft clams in the shell, and three 
dozen opened clams. Ask the dealer to open 
the first dozen, care being used not to injure 
the shells, which are to be used in cooking the 
clams. Clean the shells well, and put two soft 
clams on each half-shell ; add to each a dasli 
of white pepper and half a teaspoonful of 
minced celery. Cut a slice of fat bacon into 
the smallest dice, add four of these to each 
shell, strew over the top a thin layer of cracker- 
dust, place a pat of table butter on top, and 



34 



CL-^M TOAST. 



bake in the oven until brown. They are de- 
hghtful when properly prepared. 

Clam Toast. — Chop up two dozen small 
clams into fine pieces ; simmer for thirty min- 
utes in hot water enough to cover them. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs ; add a little cayenne 
and a gill of warmed milk ; dissolve half a tea- 
spoonful of flour in a little cold milk ; simmer 
all together ; pour over buttered toast, and 
serve. 

Clam Broth. — Procure three dozen Little- 
Neck clams in the shell ; wash them well in cold 
water ; put them in a saucepan, cover with a 
quart of hot water ; boil fifteen minutes ; drain ; 
remove the shells ; chop up the clams, and add 
them to the hot broth with a pat of butter ; salt 
if necessary, and add a little cayenne ; boil ten 
minutes, pour into a soup-tureen, add a slice 
of toast, and send to table. This is the mode 
adopted when we do not have a clam-opener 
in the house. 

Raw, freshly opened clams should be chopped 
fine and prepared in the manner above described. 
The large clams are better for chowders than 
for stews and broth. 

Clam Fritters. — Chop medium fine 
twenty-five large quahaugs, or seventy-five Little 
Necks. To a pint of flour add the beaten yolks 



FRIED SOFT CLAMS. 



35 



of three eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, a dash of cayenne, and 
an ounce of melted butter. Mix well, and make 
a batter by adding about a gill of milk. Add the 
clams, and if the batter is too thick add a little 
of the clam broth. To make them light, beat 
the mixture well ; drop spoonfuls in hot fat, and 
fry brown, as you would doughnuts. 

Fried Soft Clams. — Select half a dozen 
of large Guilford clams. Remove the shells, and 
trim off the dark tough parts. Cut into dice a 
quarter of a pound of salt pork, and fry it. In 
the pork-fat fry the clams, but first dredge them 
with flour. Serve with a slice of broiled or 
fried fat pork. 



CRABS. 



Hard-shell Crabs. — The common blue 
crab is the species of the crab family which 
we are most familiar with. We remember how 
rapidly they darted away from us when we 
pointed the net towards them, when on our 
summer vacation. We also have vivid recollec- 
tions of their anxiety to shake hands with us 
when in captivity. 

Hard crabs are to be had during almost the 
entire season, and the average price asked for 



36 CRAB PATIIES, CREA.M SAUCE. 

them is $3.00 per hundred. Those found in 
market in winter were raked out of the mud, 
where they had buried themselves until the 
advent of warm weather. 

Select a dozen hard crabs, and rinse them 
well in fresh water. Have ready a kettle two- 
thirds full of boiling water, slightly salted ; 
plunge them into it, and boil them for about 
twelve minutes ; drain, and when cool put them 
in the ice-box to become cold. 

After the theatre, return home for supper, 
instead of patronizing the restaurant, and serve 
the crabs with sandwiches of buttered bread. A 
light sauterne may be served with them, if not 
objected to. 

Crab Patties, Cream Sauce. — Roll out 
a pound of light puff-paste, half an inch in 
thickness. Cut it into rounds with a cake-cutter 
two inches in diameter. Press a small cutter 
one inch in diameter, on each round, one-fourth 
of an inch deep. Place them on a buttered tin, 
brush a little beaten egg over them, and bake 
in a quick oven. When done, remove the 
centre, and a little of the inside. 

Put into a saucepan half an ounce of butter, 
half an onion minced, half a pound of minced 
raw veal, and a small carrot shredded. Toss 
about for two or three minutes to fry, but not 



SOFT-SHELL CRABS. 3-7 

to color ; then add two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
I^.Iix it well with the other ingredients, and add 
three pints of hot water, a pint of boihng cream, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful 
of white pepper. Simmer one hour, and strain 
into a saucepan. Add to each pint of it half a 
gill of warm cream. Place back on range again, 
and simmer until reduced enough to coat the 
spoon, then strain into a crock, and whisk until 
it is cold. This is done to prevent the forma- 
tion of a thick top. At this season of the year 
this is an excellent sauce to have on hand for 
patties, white fish sauces, and also for meat 
sauces. When wanted for patties, melt an 
ounce of butter. While whisking it, gradually 
add a pint of the sauce. Mix it with a quart 
of prepared crab-meat, obtainable at the grocer's. 
When hot, fill the shells with it. 

Soft-shell Crabs. — When the blue crab 
is desirous of increasing his growth, he sheds 
his shell, and for a short period is perfectly 
helpless. The male usually retires to a secluded 
spot out of the reach of eels and other enemies, 
but the female soft shell is protected by a male 
companion whose shell is hard. At Sheepshead 
Bay these are called elopers or double crabs. 
As the tide changes, the soft shell begins to 
harden, when it is called " paper-shell," shedder, 



38 THE carp: of soft crabs. 

or feeler. Before reaching its normal condition, 
the crab is called a buckler, and is only used as 
bait. 

The Care of Soft Crabs. — Soft crabs 
require delicate handling and much care. They 
deteriorate rapidly after leaving the water, and 
are often killed in transit by the sudden jarring 
of the train. If a little care is exercised, they 
may be kept alive from six to ten days. First 
select vigorous crabs, remove them from the 
crate, and give them a bath in water slightly 
salted. Clean the crate thoroughly, renew or 
wash the seaweed which accompanies them. 
Strew over the bottom of the crate a layer of 
the seaweed, and place the crabs in the crate 
in layers, faces upward with side spines touch- 
ing each other, and alternated with layers of 
seaweed. When the crate is full, cover it with 
more seaweed, sprinkle salt water over all, and 
set the crate in a dark, cool place. Sprinkle 
salt water over them from day to day, and re- 
new the bath and fresh sea- tangle about every 
other day. Treated this way, they will keep 
in the hottest weather. One of the principal 
objects in covering them with seaweed is to 
keep the light from them. Sudden flashes of 
lightning, if seen by them, would frighten them 
to death. Their sensitive organization cannot 



CRABS, SOFT-SHELL. 39 

even stand the rumbling of thunder, and they 
should be stored away where they cannot hear 
it distinctly. The only care required in clean- 
ing them for the table is to remove the feathery 
gill-Hke formations under the side spines, and 
the sand-pouch. Soft crabs are too delicate 
morsels to cover with batter. 

Crabs, Soft-shell. — These should be 
cooked as soon as possible after being caught, 
as their flavor rapidly deteriorates after being 
exposed to the air. Select crabs as lively as pos- 
sible ; remove the feathery substance under the 
pointed sides of the shells ; rinse them in cold 
water ; drain ; season with salt and pepper ; 
dredge them in flour, and fry in hot fat. 

]\Iany serve them rolled in eggs and cracker- 
dust ; but thus they are not as good. 

Crab Croquettes. — Take one pound of 
crab-meat ; gently press out the juice, and put 
it in a bowl with a tablespoonful of fine crumbs, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of 
pepper, a dash of anchovy essence, the yolks 
of two eggs, and a very little cold water. If the 
eggs are not enough to make it the proper con- 
sistency, bind the ingredients together, and place 
on ice until wanted ; then work into corks or 
cone-shaped forms, dip them in beaten egg, then 
in crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 



40 CRAB PAITIES, A LA BECHAMEL. 

Crab Patties, a la Bechamel. — Prepare 

the shells the same as for oyster patties (which 
see). Put into a saucepan half an ounce of 
butter, half a medium-sized onion minced, half 
a pound of minced raw veal, one small carrot 
shredded ; toss about for two minutes to fry, but 
not to color ; add two tablespoon fuls of flour, 
stir it about with the vegetables ; then add three 
pints of hot water, or if convenient use hot soup- 
stock instead ; add a pint of boiling cream. 
Season with half a teaspoonful of salt and a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper. Simmer one hour, 
and strain into a saucepan. Add to each pint 
of sauce half a wineglassful of cream. Simmer 
until reduced enough to coat a spoon ; strain it 
again into a crock, and whisk it until cold, to 
prevent a thick top from forming. When wanted 
for patties, or any thing else, boil one pint of it 
with an ounce of butter, whisking it thoroughly. 
Prepare a quart of solid crab-meat, either picked 
from the shells or purchased already prepared ; 
add it to a pint of the sauce ; strew in a few 
shredded mushrooms : fill the crab-shells with 
this, and serve. On fast-days, omit veal and 
stock from meats, and use milk instead. 

[This very excellent sauce was named after 
the Marquis de Bechamel, a worthless court- 
lounger and steward under Louis XIV. Why his 



CRABS, A l'aMERICAINE. 4 1 

unsavory memory has been perpetuated by a gas- 
tronomic monument of worth, is one of those 
inexplicable historical facts that students of the 
art of cookery are continually stumbling upon. 
The close observer will not fail, however, to 
discover that nearly all dishes named after old 
French celebrities were stolen bodily from old 
Venetian and Provencal books of cookery, and 
were re-baptized after some of the most notorious 
profligates of the seventeenth and eighteenth 
centuries. Many of these old cook-books, like 
" Opusculum de Obsoniis de Honesta Voluptate," 
a volume printed at Venice, 1475 (^^"^^ ^^^^ 
cookery-book published), and others, contain 
recipes almost identical with French cookery 
of the past few centuries.] 

Crabs, a 1' Americaine. — Pick out the 
meat from the shells of four dozen boiled hard- 
shell crabs ; squeeze out the water gently ; put 
the meat in a bowl, and add the yolks of two raw 
eggs, salt, cayenne, and a very Httle chopped 
parsley, and two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; 
roll the mixture into small balls or cakes ; dip 
in egg batter, roll in cracker-crumbs, and fry to 
a delicate brown. They may be served plain 
or with tomato sauce. 

Crabs, Deviled. — Pick out the meat of 
four dozen boiled hard-shell crabs, put it into a 



42 SCALLOP BROTH. 

bowl, and add a half-pint of mayonnaise. Mix 
carefully with your hand ; wash a dozen of the 
shells, put a little of the mixture into each ; grate 
a loaf of dry bread, season a pint of it with salt 
and pepper, sprinkle it over the crabs evenly ; 
make twelve little balls of butter about the size 
of hickory-nuts ; put one on top of each crab, 
and bake in a quick oven. 



SCALLOPS. 

The scallop-shell is familiar to even the chil- 
dren who have visited the seashore, and the 
novice wonders why so small a tidbit should 
require so large a shell. The edible part of the 
scallop is only the powerful central muscle by 
which the mollusk opens and closes its shell. The 
medium-sized scallops are the best. The very 
large and very white v^ariety are more than likely 
to have been inflated and bleached by the aid 
of saleratus. 

Scallop-shells were extensively used in ancient 
cookery, and gave to various dishes the prefix 
" scalloped." 

Scallop Broth. — The peculiar flavor of 
scallops is quite attractive to the convalescent, 
and a broth made from them is nourisliing ; but 



SMALL PATI^ES OF SCALLOPS. 43 

care should be exercised in selecting the shell- 
fish. To improve their appearance, shippers 
add quantities of saleratus to the scallops, which 
has the effect of bleaching them, and increasing 
their size : this custom may please the dealers, 
but not consumers. Select medium-sized scal- 
lops of a natural creamy color, wash them, and 
cut them into small pieces. To half a pint of 
these, add half a pint of warm water and half a 
pint of milk, a " pea " of butter, and a pinch 
of salt ; simmer for twenty minutes ; strain and 
serve. 

A pint of milk and no water may be used 
if the patient desires it. 

Small Patties of Scallops. — Wash a 
pint of scallops, drain, cut them up, and scald 
them ; then put them in just milk enough to 
prevent burning. Add salt and white pepper, 
simmer until quite tender, and thicken with half 
a teaspoonful of flour dissolved in cold water. 
Pour this mixture in small patty-shells (see recipe 
for oyster patties), and serve after the soup and 
before the fish, or as an entree. 

Fried Scallops. — Rinse a pint of scallops 
in cold water slightly salted, then dry them in a 
napkin, and dredge them slightly with flour. 
Fry them in pork-fat. Egg batter and crumbs 
are not recommended. 



44 SCALLOPS EN BROCHETTE. 

Scallops en Brochette. — Drain twenty- 
four medium- sized scallops in a napkin. Parboil 
them a moment. When cool arrange them on 
four skewers, six on each, alternated with thin 
slices of bacon the size of the scallops in width. 
Brush over the scallops a little melted butter, 
and broil. When done, serve with tufts of water- 
cresses and lemon. 

Stewed Scallops. — Scald fifteen scallops, 
and put them into a stewpan with half a pint 
of boiling milk, a dash of cayenne, and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Just before serving, add very 
little table butter. 



MUSSELS. 



The Mussel is called the poor man's 
oyster ; but why the poor should have a monop- 
oly of this very useful shellfish, the writer is at 
a loss to comprehend. During warm weather 
the spiced mussel is a treat : it may have the 
honor of ushering in a family dinner instead 
of the clam, and at collations and suppers it 
should be welcome. As they may be purchased 
at from eighteen to twenty- five cents per quart, 
it is a waste of time to pickle them at home, 
unless living at the seashore. 



REMARKS ON THE LOBSTER. 45 



THE LOBSTER. 

Remarks on the Lobster. — It takes a 
lobster about five years to arrive at maturity, or 
over ten inches in length. The spawning season 
depends upon the temperature of the water. 
Along the Sound, the season begins in June, 
and ends in September. 

The Season for Lobster. — Lobsters 
are at their best before the spawning season. 
They are then filled with roe, or coral as the 
red spawn is called by some. This is a great 
delicacy, and is highly esteemed by epicures. 
i\fter the spawning season, which is late in the 
summer, they are in very poor condition, and 
should not be offered for sale until cool weather. 

The green part in the body of the lobster is 
called the tom-alley by New- England folks. It 
is excellent eating. 

The external spawn adhering to the tail of 
the female lobster, when not highly developed, 
is edible, and is used in garnishing and making 
lobster butter, paste, and cardinal-fish sauces. 

It is a curious fact, that the lobster changes 
or re-makes a shell from eight to ten times the 
first year, five to seven the second, three to four 
the third, and from two to three the fourth 



46 SOFT-SHELL LOBSTER NOT EDIBLE. 

year. So says Professor G. O. Sars of Norway, 
about the European lobster, whose habits agree 
more or less closely with those of the American 
lobster. 

Soft-shell Lobster not edible. — After 
the fifth year the change of shell is only an- 
nual. A soft-shell or shedder lobster, unlike 
the soft-shell crab, is not edible, and if eaten is 
likely to produce ill effects. In a soft condition 
the lobster itself is sick, and is therefore unfit for 
food. 

Selecting Lobsters. — Always select a firm 
shell, of a deep dark-green color. Light-colored, 
thin-shelled lobsters are likely to be lean and 
poor. When plunged into the boiling water, 
the joints contract, and the tail draws under, 
j)rovided the lobster was alive at the time of 
immersion. If dead when boiled, the tendons are 
relaxed, the claws hang loosely, the tail will not 
possess a spring-like tenacity when straightened 
out. Select the former, and reject the latter. 

Value of the Lobster as Food. — 
According to Professor Atwater of Middletown, 
Conn., the nutritive value of the flesh of the 
lobster, compared with beef as a standard and 
reckoned at loo, is 61 to 97. Forty per cent 
of the lobster is edible, the remainder is shell 
and waste. 



BROILED LOBSTER. 47 

Buckland says, " That phosphorus exists in 
large quantities, may be easily proved. A 
lobster in hot weather, when it ceases to be 
fresh, assumes a highly phosphorescent appear- 
ance when seen in the dark, equal if not superior 
to that of a glow-worm or luminous centipede. 
This light increases by friction. . . . The pres- 
sence of phosphorus in the lobster is of great 
importance to the consumers of these sea 
luxuries. There is no substance which conveys 
phosphorus so readily into the human system 
in an agreeable form, and which the system so 
readily and quickly assimilates, as the flesh of 
crabs and lobsters." 

Broiled Lobster. — Select alive and active 
lobster not less than ten and a half inches long. 
(If below this measurement, the dealer should 
be arrested for breaking the law which protects 
the lobster.) Split it in two lengthv.-ise, which 
instantly kills it. Remove the entrail through 
the fleshy part of the tail, and the crop or 
stomach near the head. This done, there are 
two ways of preparing it for table. One is as 
follows : — 

Remove the flesh from the tail, and brush 
over it a little melted butter or olive-oil ; broil it 
gendy, but not too well done. Heat the shell, 
put the meat back in the shell again, add more 



48 LOBSTER CROQU KITES, WITH PEASE. 

butter, salt, pepper, and serve on hot plates. 
The body parts may be boiled, and furnish 
dainty pickings for a late meal. 

The other way is that which is generally 
adopted by restaurants. Brush a little butter 
over the entire half of the green lobster ; broil 
the shell side thoroughly first, then turn, and 
broil the other. Serve with maitre-d'hotel sauce. 

A lobster that has once been boiled and then 
broiled is so thoroughly over-cooked as to be 
very indigestible. 

Lobster Croquettes, with Pease. — Boil 
one-half pint of milk, thicken it with a table- 
spoonful of flour, and let it become cold. Mince 
the meat of a one-pound can of lobster, or one 
pound of fresh lobster; when very fine, add a 
saltspoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of 
white pepper. Moisten the lobster mince with 
the thickened milk, and work tlie whole to a 
paste ; add very little bread-crumb if too thin ; 
let it become amalgamated over the range, and 
place in the ice-box until wanted ; then shape it 
into neat rolls or cones ; dip them in egg and 
crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat. Arrange 
the forms neatly on a dish, put round them a 
border of pease, and serve. 

Lobsters en Brochette. — Instead of boil- 
ing the lobster-tails, cut them in pieces, and 



DEVILED LOBSTER. 49 

arrange these on small skewers, alternated with 
small pieces of bacon ; brush melted butter over 
them, and either broil or bake them ; serve with 
sauce tartare (which see on p. 84). 

Deviled Lobster. — Take two Hve lobsters, 
remove the tails, split them in two, and make 
several incisions in them crosswise. Mix to- 
gether half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful 
each of dry mustard and curry, and half a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, add a tablespoonful of 
oil ; mix, spread it over the lobsters, and broil 
them. When done, return to the shells, which 
should have been kept hot for the purpose ; 
pour a little melted butter over them, and serve. 

Stewed Lobster, a la Creole. — Remove 
the tail part of the meat from three green lob- 
sters ; split them in two lengthwise ; remove the 
thread-like intestine. Melt an ounce of butter in 
a deep frying-pan ; add the lobster ; toss it for a 
few minutes in the butter ; add salt and pepper 
and half a pint of hot water ; cover, and simmer 
three-quarters of an hour ; drain, and reduce 
the water one-half by rapid boiling. Put in 
a saucepan half an ounce of butter and a 
tablespoonful of minced onion ; fry brown, and 
add three peeled and sliced tomatoes, one sweet 
pepper, four okra pods cut small, and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Allow these to cook fifteen 



50 CURRV OF LOBSTER. 

minutes, add the broth, and simmer until 
reduced to a pulp ; rub through a sieve ; put 
this piiire on a hot dish, place the lobster on 
top, add a litde lemon-juice, and ser\'e. 

Curry of Lobster. — Remove the meat 
from two boiled lobsters, cut it into neat pieces ; 
take all green fat and coral, and set them aside ; 
mix the green fat with a heaping spoonful 
of curry-powder. Squeeze out the juice of three 
limes, and add to it half a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered sugar. Put into a frying-pan an ounce 
of butter ; when creamed add a teaspoonful of 
minced onion browned a little ; now add the 
mixed curry-powder; dissolve a teaspoonful of 
rice-flour in cold water, add this to a pint of hot 
water or soup-stock, simmer until thick ; now 
add the lobster, and simmer twenty minutes 
longer. Wash and dry the coral, separate it. 
Prepare a border of rice on a dish, and over it 
sprinkle the coral and eggs (if any) ; pour the 
curry in the centre, and serve. 

Lobster Salad. — Take two live hen (female) 
lobsters ; boil them thirty minutes ; drain. When 
cold, break them apart ; crack the claws, and 
if the tail-fms are covered with eggs remove 
them carefully. Take out the sand-pouch found 
near the head ; split the fleshy part of the tail 
in two lengthwise, remove the small long entrail 



THE OYSIKR CRAB. 51 

found therein. Adhering to the body-shell 
may be found a layer of creamy fat ; save this, 
and also the green fat in the body of the 
lobster (called tom-alley by New-Englanders), 
and the coral. If celery is used, tear the lob- 
ster into shreds with forks ; if lettuce, cut the 
lobster into half-inch pieces. Place the salad 
herb in a bowl, add the lobster and the fat, and 
pour over it a rich mayonnaise ; garnish with 
the claws and heads, tufts of green, hard-boiled 
eggs, etc. The lobster eggs may be separated, 
and sprinkled over the mayonnaise. The coral 
is used for coloring mayonnaise, and also butter, 
which is then used in decorating salmon and 
other dark fish used in salads. 



THE OYSTER CRAB. 

The little crab found in the oyster is not, as 
commonly supposed by two- thirds of the oyster- 
eating community to be, the young of the blue 
crab ; but it is a distinct species. It is a mess- 
mate of and caterer to the wants of the oyster, 
being therefore a benefit instead of a detriment 
to the latter. In return for the oyster's kindness 
in protecting it against its enemies, the little 
crab catches and crushes food which in its en- 



52 



TO SERVE OYSTER CRAI5S. 



tire state could not be taken by the oyster. A 
singular thing in connection with them is, that 
all found inside of the oyster are females. The 
male of the same variety is found in the neigh- 
borhood, but its shell is firm. 

Oyster-crabs are found at the grocer's, put up 
in half-pint bottles, which retail from 60 to 75 
cents each. At the markets they are sold at 
^2.50 per quart. 

To Serve Oyster Crabs. — Put on a 
small saucer a crisp but dry leaf of lettuce, and 
put in the centre of each leaf a scant tablespoon- 
ful of the oyster crabs. Add a scant teaspoon- 
ful of mayonnaise to each, and serve as a whet 
before a ladies' collation, or at an afternoon 
luncheon. 

Oyster-Crab Omelet. — This is a most 
tempting dish. Roll an ounce of butter into 
little balls, dredge these with flour, put them in 
a pan, and when they begin to melt whisk them ; 
do not let it brown ; add a gill of hot water, 
and simmer until thick ; now add half a pint of 
oyster crabs, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Beat 
up four eggs thoroughly, and make them into an 
omelet ; just before folding, add the crabs, and 
serve. 

Oyster-Crab Sauce. — Add a tablespoon- 
ful of oyster-crabs to half a pint of drawn 



SHRIMPS. 53 

butter, sauce hollandaise, or in fact any white 
or cream fish-sauce, and serve with boiled 

fish. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT. 

The writer is deeply indebted to Prof. George 
Brown Goode's compilation and reports of the 
"' Fishery Industries of the United States," for 
much of the natural history of fish and shell 
embodied in this work. 



SHRIMPS. 



The common shrimp, which is caught in im- 
mense quantities along our coast all summer, and 
used for bait, is a dainty which summer residents 
should not neglect. When a shrimp salad is 
wanted, however, the servant is sent to the nearest 
grocer for a can of Southern shrimp, and the 
delicious morsel at their very door is used to 
feed the fishes. The trouble seems to be, that 
servants dislike the trouble of picking them out 
of their transparent shells. 

Summer hotels would buy the native shrimp 
if fishermen would take the trouble of offering 
them. No more appetizing or appropriate garnish 
for lobster salads and for portions of boiled fish 



54 MARKET PRICE OF SHRIMPS. 

can be imagined than the httle home shrimp 
properiy boiled. A pkinge into the hot water is 
about all the cooking they need. 

Market Price of Shrimps. — Cooked and 
shelled shrimps are to be had in our markets 
during warm weather, for from thirty to fifty cents 
per quart. Canned shrimps retail for from thirty 
to forty cents per can, and $3.50 per dozen. 
Rinse them in fresh water before using them. 

Shrimp Omelet. — Toss half a pint of 
canned or fresh shrimps in a little hot butter for 
a moment ; add a little salt and pepper and a 
tablespoonful of tomato sauce. Prepare the 
omelet, and just before folding add the shrimps, 
and serve. 

Shrimp Sauce. — Cut up the shrimps into 
halves, add them to a creamy fish sauce of any 
kind ; mix and serve. 



PRAWNS. 



Scientifically there is a difference between the 
prawn and the shrimp ; but it need not be con- 
sidered by the housewife, except that the prawn, 
that comes to this market from the South already 
cooked and shelled, is larger than the shrimp, 
and a little stron.ojer flavored. 



CURRY OF PRAWNS 55 

The shrimps and prawns are found in salt and 
brackish water, while the crayfish are inhabitants 
of fresh water. 

Curry of Prawns. — Prawns are at their 
best served as a curry. Boil two quarts of live 
prawns thirty minutes, drain when sHghtly cooled, 
break away the shells, and set them aside. Put 
two ounces of butter in a frying-pan ; when very 
hot add a clove of garlic and one sliced apple ; 
brown slightly, remove the garlic, and add a des- 
sertspoonful of curry-powder mixed with a gill 
of water; stir, and add half a pint of soup-stock 
and half a teaspoonful of flour; now add the 
prawns, and the juice of half a lemon in which 
a lump of sugar has been dissolved. Pour out 
on a hot dish, and send to table with rice 
croquettes. 

Prawns, Deviled, enCoquille. — Simmer 
a quart of prawns fifteen minutes in water fla- 
vored with a little sharp vinegar ; drain, and cut 
them very fine. Add two ounces of butter, a gill 
of water, salt and pepper, the yolks of two eggs, 
and bread-crumbs to absorb the moisture. Mix 
to a paste. Partly fill the shells, cover with 
crumbs, add a small pat of butter to each, and 
bake to a delicate brown. 

Prawns, Saut6, a la Marengo. — Wash 
one pint of " shelled " prawns, simmer them 



56 PRA\\'N SALAD. 

twenty minutes, drain, and toss them a moment 
in a little hot olive-oil ; remove them, add a sprig 
of parsley, half a dozen button mushrooms, a 
gill of hot water, salt and pepper, and thicken 
with a little flour. Put the pra\vns on a dish, 
pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried 
eggs and slices of tomatoes fried. 

Prawn Salad. — Take one quart of prawns 
and one quart and a pint of cut celery ; put the 
celery in a bowl ; add the prawns ; garnish neatly, 
and serve with a mayonnaise. 



CRAYFISH. 



The crayfish are inhabitants of fresh-water 
streams ; and they bear a striking resemblance 
to the lobster in appearance, spawning habits, 
shedding their shell, etc. Their season begins 
early in the spring, and lasts until cold weather. 
During a bountiful supply of these delicious 
shell-fish, large quantities are packed away in 
ice-houses for winter use, when there is a big 
demand for them from caterers who use them 
as garnishment, and for salads and sauces. They 
cost from three to four dollars per hundred 
in the New-York markets. Those tliat come 
from Milwaukee are highly esteemed ; and, as 



CRAVFiSH OMELET. 57 

they are already cooked, they may be used at 
luncheon, and on fast-days as salads. A cray- 
fish salad is an enjoyable dish. 

Crayfish Omelet. — Rinse half a pint of 
crayfish tails in salted water, and drain them ; 
then split each tail in two lengthwise, and re- 
move the thread-like intestine found therein. 
Toss them about a moment in a little butter and 
tablespoonful of broth or gravy ; season with a 
dash of cayenne. Make a four-egg omelet, and 
just before folding add the crayfish. 



SAL^ION. 



Salmon Steak. — Put into fast boiling water, 
salted, a slice of fresh salmon, and boil for five 
minutes quite rapidly ; then set on back of the 
range where it will simmer for fifteen minutes 
longer. Drain, and place it on a napkin sur- 
rounded with a border of parsley. On the two 
ends of the platter place slices of lemon. Serve 
with a sauce in a sauce-boat. Drawn butter 
with a few ])rawns or shrimps cut up in it is a 
nice sauce for salmon. 

Canned Salmon. — The canning of salmon 
at the source of supply has been of lasting ben- 
efit to mankind, for we are now able to pro- 



58 SALMON PAITIES. 

cure a pound of salmon in any quarter of the 
globe for a reasonable sum. Canned salmon 
has one advantage over the fresh fish : it does 
not deteriorate, and lose its flavor. Those who 
have tried it say they do not get surfeited with 
canned salmon, although many of the same indi- 
viduals dislike the fresh salmon owing to its 
richness, and on this account rarely eat it. 

Salmon Patties. — This is a very nice way 
of serving salmon at luncheon. Open a pound 
can of salmon, drain, add to the small amount of 
salmon liquid sufficient water to make a gill, 
season it with salt and pepper, and, if on hand, 
add a little anchovy paste. Beat up the yolks 
of two eggs with half a teaspoonful of flour dis- 
solved in a little cold water or milk : add the gill 
of water, place it on the range to become hot 
and thick, whisking it meanwhile ; break the 
salmon into pieces, and add to the sauce. When 
quite hot, fill the patty shells with it, and serve. 
A very rich sauce may be made by the addition 
of butter and cream. 

The patty shells are made as follows : Roll out 
some very light puff-paste, half an inch thick ; 
stamp it in rounds with a three-inch cutter, press 
a small cutter in the middle of each round to 
the depth of quarter of an inch ; put the rounds 
on a buttered tin, brush a little beaten egg over 



SAOIOX SURPRISE. 



59 



them, and bake in a quick oven. When done, 
remove the centre, scoop out a httle of the inside, 
and the shells are ready for the mixture. 

Salmon Surprise. — Boil two quarts of 
potatoes with their jackets on. When done, peel 
and mash them with butter and warm milk. 
Arrange a border of potatoes on a flat, oval dish. 
In the centre of this put a pound of canned or 
cold salmon separated into neat-sized pieces, salt, 
pepper, a very little mace, and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley ; cover the salmon with a layer 
of raw oysters ; add a little oyster-liquor, cover 
the oysters with a thin smooth layer of mashed 
potato, and brush the beaten yolk of egg over 
all. Then make a small hole in the centre, and 
place the dish in an oven hot enough to brown 
the outside quickly. 

Salmon a la Creole. — Scald and put 
three large tomatoes to simmer in very little 
water, until tender : chop up very fine a sweet 
Spanish pepper and quarter of an onion; fry 
these in a little bacon fat ; add the tomato, salt, 
and little white pepper. Simmer until reduced 
to a pulp. Open a pound can of salmon ; set 
the can in a saucepan half full of hot water, turn 
the salmon out on a dish. Wlien it is quite hot, 
pour the pulp over it, and serve. Canned toma- 
toes may be used instead of fresh tomatoes. 



60 SALMON PIE. 

Salmon Pie. — Cut up four boiled potatoes 
into neat pieces ; cut half a pound of boiled salt 
pork into dice ; divide a pound of canned sal- 
mon into symmetrical pieces ; roll out quarter of 
a pound of puff-paste, cut it into squares, and roll 
each of these into a little ball. Arrange these 
ingredients alternately in a deep yellow dish, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, add hot water or gravy 
to prevent burning, cover the top with paste, 
make a hole in the centre, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Salmon in Jelly. — Take one gallon of 
clear soup, and boil it down to a quart. Soak 
a teaspoonful of gelatine in cold water, and add 
to the reduced soup to make sure that it will 
be stiff when cold. 

Take a two-quart tin mould, set it on ice, and 
pour enough of the liquid in it to cover the 
bottom. Let this become firm. Cut into slices, 
and then into diamonds, boiled beets, white 
turnips, and cold boiled tongue ; dip each into 
the liquid, and place them in the mould in a 
very neat and artistic manner ; when they be- 
come firm, spread over them a layer an inch 
thick, of cream-mashed potato ; now add a 
pound of canned salmon, and pour round the 
edges and on top the remainder of the reduced 
soup, and set the mould in a very cold place to 



SAOiON OMELET. 6l 

become firm. When wanted, dip the mould into 
hot water quickly, and turn it out. This is an 
excellent dish for collations, wedding break- 
fasts, etc. The potato must be made rich with 
butter and milk, and beaten to a light consist- 
ency before being placed in the mould. x\ny 
other kind of cold fish will answer quite as well 
as salmon for this and other dishes herein 
mentioned. 

Salmon Omelet. — Separate half a pound 
of canned salmon into flakes, season with salt and 
pepper, a little lemon-juice, and add a little of 
the hquid ; heat it a little, whip up the eggs 
for an omelet, prepare it as usual, and just be- 
fore completing the fold add the salmon ; then 
turn it out on a hot dish. 

Salmon, German Style. — Boil two quarts 
of sauerkraut ; drain it, and pile it on a hot 
dish ; have ready a pound of canned salmon 
hot ; make a hole in the centre of the kraut, 
insert the fish, simmer and season the salmon 
liquid, pour it over the dish, and serve. 

Salmon a 1 'Italienne. — Boil half a pound 
of macaroni in water slightly salted ; drain. 
Heat a can of salmon in hot water ; turn it out 
on a dish ; arrange the macaroni round it ; pour 
over the macaroni the contents of a pound 
can of tomato-pulp (hot), sprinkle over this a 
little grated Parmesan cheese, and serve. 



62 SALMON A LA HOLLAND AISE. 

Salmon a la Hollandaise. — Heat a 
pound of canned salmon in the original can ; 
turn it out on a hot dish, garnish neatly, and 
pour over it the following sauce : Cream two 
ounces of butter, whisk into it the yolks of 
two beaten eggs, add a Httle salt and white 
pepper, and half a teaspoonful of strong vinegar ; 
put the pan in a larger one containing hot 
water, whisk it until it thickens, and just before 
serving add a little lemon-juice. 

Salmon, Hunter's Style. — One of the 
best dishes I have ever eaten while hunting was 
prepared as follows : Take three one-pound cans 
of salmon (save the liquid), and divide into neat 
pieces ; make a dough as for milk biscuits : 
divide half of it into little balls ; take one box 
of sardines ; put a layer of sliced bacon in the 
bottom of a gallon crock ; add a layer of sal- 
mon, a few dough balls, two sardines, salt, cay- 
enne. Continue arranging in alternate layers 
until the ingredients are all used ; add a wine- 
glassful of vinegar to the salmon liquid, and 
if there is not enough add a little water ; cover 
the top with the remainder of the dough, and 
tie one or two thicknesses of white cloth over 
all. Dig a hole deep enough to be lined with 
mud or stones and to receive the crock ; build 
a fire in and over it (the smoke will keep off the 



BOUILLABAISSE 63 

mosquitoes). When reduced to coals, scoop 
out the ashes and coals from the hole, cover the 
cloth with mud, set the crock in the hole, and 
cover up with the hot ashes ; let it remain three 
hours, and a more satisfactory dish cannot be 
imagined. 

Bouillabaisse. — This celebrated dish was 
immortalized by Thackeray. Put into a frying- 
pan a gill of olive-oil, a clove of garlic minced, 
a tablespoonful of chopped onion, two cloves, 
six peppercorns ; when slightly brown, add one 
pound of canned salmon and the salmon liquid 
in the can ; add a little salt, a bit of bay leaf, 
three slices of lemon, a pint of tomato pulp, a 
pinch of curry-powder or saffron, a gill of Rhine 
wine, with water enough to cover the fish : sim- 
mer twenty minutes. Line a deep dish with 
toast, remove from the pan all seasoning in sight, 
pour the contents of the pan on the toast, and 
serve. 



CODFISH. 



Boiled Codfish, Oyster Sauce. — The 
only thing that can be urged against this most 
excellent fish is its homely name. Were it not 
so cheap, its good qualities would rapidly find 



64 CODFISH TONGUES. 

favor at all gastronomic entertainments where 
palate-pleasing dishes are appreciated. Put the 
fish into boiling water, slightly salted ; add a 
few whole cloves and peppers, and a bit of 
lemon-peel ; pull gently on the fins, and when 
they come out easily the fish is done. Arrange 
neatly on a folded napkin, garnish, and serve 
with oyster sauce. Take six oysters to every 
pound of fish, and scald them in a half-pint of 
hot oyster liquor ; take out the oysters, and add 
to the liquor, salt, pepper, a bit of mace, and an 
ounce of butter; whip into it a gill of milk, 
containing half of a teaspoonful of flour. Sim- 
mer a moment; add the oysters, and send to 
table in a sauce-boat. 

A four-pound fish should cook in about forty 
minutes. 

Codfish Tongues. — Wash four codfish 
tongues thoroughly in cold water; put them 
on the range in hot water, slightly salted, and 
boil thirty minutes ; drain ; arrange neatly on 
a folded napkin placed upon a hot dish; gar- 
nish with parsley and slices of lemon, and send 
to table with cream sauce. 

Codfish Steak. — Select a medium-sized 
fresh codfish, cut it in steaks crosswise of the 
fish about an inch and a half thick ; sprinkle a 
little salt over them, and let them stand two 



NEW- ENGLAND CODFISH BALLS. 65 

hours. Cut into dice a pound of salt fat pork, 
fry out all the fat from them, and remove the 
crisp bits of pork ; put the codfisli steaks in a 
pan of corn-meal, dredge them with it, and, 
when the pork-fat is smoking hot, fry the steaks 
in it to a dark brown color on both sides. 
Squeeze over them a little lemon-juice, add a 
dash of freshly ground pepper, and serve with 
hot, old-fashioned, well buttered johnny-cake. 

New-England Codfish Balls. — Shred 
the codfish the night before, and soak it over 
night ; drain quite dry on towel next day. Mash 
fine one pound of hot boiled potatoes. Take 
an equal amount of codfish, and divide it very 
fine. Mix both together, and add the beaten 
yolks of tv/o eggs, two ounces of melted butter, 
and a saltspoonful of white pepper. Now beat 
the mixture until it is very light, for upon this 
process depends the success or failure of the 
dish. In shaping them together, do not press 
tliem any more than is absolutely necessary, 
ivlost cooks press them into cakes so hard 
that it is next to an impossibility to eat them. 
Dredge them lightly with a little flour, and fry 
them like doughnuts in smoking hot fat. When 
properly prepared and cooked they should fairly 
melt in the mouth, which they will do if thor- 
oughly beaten and lightly handled. 



66 BAKED COD. 

Baked Cod. — When purchasing a four- 
pound cod, ask your fish- dealer to send you 
three " codfish-heads ; " and as soon as the bas- 
ket comes into the house, rub a Httle salt on the 
fish, chop the heads into six pieces each, and 
sprinkle a little salt over them. Place them in 
the centre of the baking-pan (to be used as 
supports for the fish), with a gill of water. Set 
the pan in the oven while you prepare the cod. 

Soak in cold water until soft a sufficiency of 
bread to fill the fish ; drain off the water, and 
pound the bread to a paste; mix with it two 
tablepoonsfuls of melted butter, two raw eggs, a 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, with salt 
and pepper to taste. Put this stuffing inside the 
fish, and sew it up ; place the cod in the pan 
with two or three pieces of butter on the upper 
side of the fish, and baste it frequently ; when it 
is cooked, lay the fish on a hot platter, and gar- 
nish with fried oysters if convenient. Add a 
tablespoonful of brown flour to the pan, a wine- 
glass of claret ; mix, and strain the gravy into a 
sauce-boat. Time to cook, one hour. 

Salt Codfish ^vith Cream. — Soak one 
pound and a half of salt codfish over night. 
Next morning set the fish to simmer for about 
two hours ; drain off the water, and strip the fish 
into shreds ; place it in a saucepan with a quart 



SCROD. 67 

of milk and two ounces of butter ; mix a table- 
spoonful of flour with two tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk, and add to the fish. Let the whole come to 
a boil ; remove the dish from the fire, beat up one 
egg to a froth, add it to the fish, stir, and serve. 
Scrod. — Small codfish no larger than our 
tomcod are called scrod in Eastern Massachu- 
setts. After they have been corned over night, 
they are broiled and fried. 



BROOK TROUT. 

Cultivated trout may be purchased at from 
sixty to seventy- five cents per pound, and wild 
trout from twenty-five to thirty-five cents per 
pound, after April first. There are many house- 
keepers who will not purchase the latter, think- 
ing that as they are cheaper, they cannot be so 
good as the more expensive trout. Cultivated 
trout are only trout in name and outside appear- 
ance, and no more compare in flavor with the 
wild trout than chalk does with cheese. They 
are fattened (not allowed to feed naturally) on 
cheap animal food that destroys all trout flavor ; 
and they live in artificial streams or ponds, 
acquiring a peculiar swampy flavor which is 
decidedly objectionable. 



6S RROOK TROUT, SrORTSMAX STYLE. 

The wild trout lives in clear running streams, 
fed from never-ending springs ; here he finds a 
beautiful supply of food furnished by nature's 
generous hand, instead of the refuse of the 
butcher furnished to his more aristocratic 
brother. Besides being superior in every way, 
the wild trout is always cheaper. 

Shippers of trout often pack their speckled 
beauties in moss, which injures their flavor ma- 
terially ; and the housekeeper is obliged to let 
them stand in cold water, slightly salted, to 
extract the flavor of the moss. This is a good 
plan to follow, by the way, when the trout arc 
frozen, as nearly all wild trout are in the early 
spring. 

Brook Trout, Sportsman Style. — Clean 
and rinse a quarter-of-a-pound trout in cold 
spring water ; dry it in a towel. Cut half a 
pound of salt pork into small pieces ; put these 
into a thoroughly clean frying-pan ; fry out the 
clear fat, and remove the small pieces of i)ork. 
Rub a litUe fine table-salt in the inside of the 
fish, and when the pork-fat is smoking hot, add 
the fish to it ; turn it three times before it is 
done. When nicely browned, serve it on a hot 
dish, and send it to the table without adding 
condiments of any kind. Should you be able to 
procure fresh butter, a little may be put on tlie 



BROILED TROUT. 69 

fish before it is served, but it must be of 
the very best quahty. 

Broiled Trout. — The foregoing is a recipe 
for cooking trout immediately after catching 
them. After they are brought to our city mar- 
kets from distant mountain streams, however, 
they are most toothsome when broiled over a 
declining fire, and require a seasoning of salt, 
pepper, and a little lemon-juice mixed with the 
sweetest of sweet butter. Sen-e with hot plates. 

Brook Trout, Baked. — Trout weighing a 
pound or over are best when served baked, 
though many sportsmen will not listen to this 
proposition. The outside of a large trout is 
almost ruined in broihng before the centre of 
the fish is cooked. Do not split the fish down 
the back. Take half a pint of fine grated bread- 
crumbs, and soak them in a little milk ; squeeze 
out the milk ; add two ounces of table butter, a 
saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white 
pepper, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, and 
the slightest sprig of thyme ; add the yolk of 
one raw egg ; mix ; open the trout just enough 
to clean it properly ; remove the gills (leave the 
heads on) , fill the cavity with the stuffing, and 
sew it up carefully. Put the fish in a tin, on top 
of it place small bits of butter previously rolled 
in flour, place it in a good oven, and bake with 



70 BROOK TROUT, DOILED. 

the back toward the hottest part of the oven. 
The length of time it will take to cook properly 
is from twenty to thirty minutes, very often a 
little longer, for much depends on the tempera- 
ture of the oven. 

Brook Trout, Boiled. — To boil trout 
seems an outrage ; but when one receives a 
large quantity of them, and there is danger of 
their spoiling if not immediately used, put four 
small trout properly cleaned into a saucepan, 
cover them with claret, add a slice of lemon, 
two cloves, four whole peppers, the least bit of 
mace, and a heaping saltspoonful of salt. Sim- 
mer slowly three-quarters of an hour ; remove 
the saucepan from the range, and when cold 
take out the fish, put them in a dish, and pour 
the boiled wine over them. Serve at luncheon 
or collations. 

The head, tail, and fins of trout should not be 
removed before cooking. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Catfish, Fried. — Catfish and waffles is a 
combination dear to the hearts of Philadelphians, 
and the road-houses near that city are celebrated 
for cooking theni. Select the fish already cleaned, 



THE TENDERLOIN TROUT. 7 1 

as it is a troublesome job to clean them, and 
pick out the white instead of the red catfish; 
rub a little salt along the backbone on the in- 
side, and let the fish stand over night. Next 
day dredge them with corn-meal or flour, and 
fry in a little fat ; sprinkle salt and pepper over 
them before ser\'ing. 

The Tenderloin Trout. — Large catfish 
are caught in Southern rivers ; and while they are 
fair eating, they are not popular with the whites 
in the vicinity of New Orleans. The restaur- 
ant people, however, cut the fish into pieces an 
inch square and about four inches long ; these 
are dipped in egg, rolled in crumbs, and fried 
and served as tenderloin trout. 

Fricasseed Eels. — Cut up three pounds 
of eels into pieces of three inches in length ; 
put them into a stewpan, and cover them with 
Rhine wine (or two-thirds water and one-third 
vinegar) : add fifteen oysters, two pieces of 
lemon, a bouquet of herbs, one onion quartered, 
six cloves, three stalks celery, a pinch of cayenne, 
pepper and salt to taste. Stew the eels one 
hour ; remove them from the dish ; strain the 
liquor. Put it back into the stewpan with a 
gill of cream and an ounce of butter rolled in 
flour ; simmer gently a few minutes, pour over 
the fish, and serve. 



72 EEL PATTIES. 

Eel Patties. — Take three medium-sized 
eels, and cut them up into inch pieces. Put 
them in a stewpan, add salt, and co\'er them 
with cold water. When the water comes to a 
boil, take them off the fire, wash them in cold 
water, scrape off any fat that may adhere, return 
them to the stewpan with just enough hot water 
to cover them, and add a blade of mace, a bay 
leaf, a few whole peppers, a few sprigs of pars- 
ley, and one lemon cut into shces. Stew gently 
until the fish will separate from the bone ; re- 
move the fish from the broth, pick it into small 
pieces, and set them aside ; reduce the broth a 
little, strain, and thicken with flour and butter. 
Return the fish to the broth, simmer a moment, 
fill your patties, and serve ; make patty-shells as 
directed for oyster patties. 

Stewed Eels, Hoboken Turtle Club 
Style. — Cut into three-inch pieces two pounds 
of medium-sized cleaned eels. Rub the inside of 
each piece with salt. Let stand half an hour, 
then parboil them. Boil an onion in a quart of 
milk, and remove the onion. Drain the eels from 
the water, and add them to the milk. Season 
with half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper, and the slightest suspicion of mace. 
Simmer until the flesh falls from the bones. 

Fried eels should be slightly salted before 



PAN BASS, A\CHO\T BU'lTER. 73 

cooking them. Do not cover them with batter, 
but dredge them with just flour enough to ab- 
sorb all moisture, then cover them with boiling 
fat, as for doughnut cooking. Many New Eng- 
land families use corn-meal to dredge them with 
instead of flour. 

Eels en matelotte, or sailor fashion, are appre- 
ciated by many. Cut them into three-inch 
pieces, and salt them. Fry an onion brown in a 
httle dripping ; add half a pint of broth to the 
brown onion, part of a bay leaf, six broken pep- 
percorns, four whole cloves, and a gill of claret. 
Add the eels to this, and simtxi^^ntil thoroughly 
cooked. Remove the eels, put them on a hot 
dish, add a teaspoonful of browned flour to the 
sauce, strain, and pour over the eels. 

Pan Bass, Anchovy Butter. — During 
February, March, and the first part of April, 
there may be found in market a variety of bass 
which much resembles the Oswego bass. They 
come from the Carolinas and Virginia, and are 
excellent eating. Let them stand an hour in 
salt water, then drain and wipe dry, and fry 
them in tried-out salt-pork fat. Serve them 
with a butter made as follows : Mix together a 
teaspoonful of anchovy paste with a tablespoon- 
ful of sweet butter, and, if not objected to, add 
a few blades of chopped chives. 



74 FILLET OF FLOUNDER, TARTAR SAUCE. 

The chive has the flavor pecuhar to the onion 
family, but in a mild form. It is cultivated by 
truck gardeners, and may be found on the New 
York vegetable stands as early as January. The 
retail price at the first of the season is ten cents 
a tuft ; as it becomes more plentiful, it is offered 
at five cents. 

Placed in the kitchen, it grows luxuriantly, — 
in fact, it grows faster than it can be used by a 
small family. This very useful herb should be 
in the kitchen window of every home where 
soups and salads are rightly appreciated. 

The chive grows wild in nearly all of the 
Middle and Eastern States, and the first green 
spot seen in our parks is more than likely to be 
chives. Cows eat it, and their milk has a slight 
garlic flavor. The garlic flavor in milk is decid- 
edly objectionable ; yet the early Dutch settlers 
planted the chives in the pastures for the cows 
to eat, thereby imparting to the milk this pe- 
culiar flavor. 

Fillet of Flounder, Tartar Sauce. — 
Cut the flesh from the bone lengthwise, and then 
cut each piece into strips an inch wide. Dip 
them in beaten egg. Roll them in cracker- 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat enough to cover them. 
This dish appears on our French bills-of-fare as 
/I/e^ de sole. Serve with sauce iariare. 



FRIED TOMCODS. 75 

Fried Tomcods. — These delicate, sweet- 
flavored pan-fish are called frost-fish by dealers, 
but the fishermen along the Hudson call them 
''Tommies." Whatever name they are known 
by, they are delicious morsels when fresh caught. 
Clean them without removing the heads, dry 
them in a napkin, and salt their insides, dredge 
them with a little flour, and fry them crisp in 
hot smoking fat. Put the clean fish into a 
baking-tin. Over each fish place a thin slice 
of bacon, add salt and pepper, and bake them 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Broiled Salt Codfish. — Cut half of a 
small codfish into medium-sized square pieces ; 
split them in two, and soak them over night 
in cold water. Drain, and dry them in a napkin, 
next morning. Rub a little butter over each 
piece, and broil them. Place them on a hot 
platter, and pour a little melted butter over 
them. 

Drawn butter is sometimes served with this 
dish. It should be very smooth looking, and 
have a starchy appearance. Divide three ounces 
of butter into little balls. Dredge them with 
flour. Put one-fourth of them into a saucepan, 
and when they begin to melt, whisk to a smooth 
consistency. Now add one more of the floured 
balls, and whisk thoroughly until incorporated 



76 BROILED SALT MACKEREL. 

with the first. Repeat this process until all are 
used. When smooth and thick, stir in a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, and, if liked, a little 
chopped parsley. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel. — "I like salt 
mackerel, but it does not agree with me," is a 
remark often heard in nearly all classes of society. 
Many imagine they can eat cured fish with the 
same degree of recklessness and lack of regard 
for dietetic laws which they often show in eat- 
ing more digestible food. They soon discover, 
however, that something is radically wrong ; just 
where the blame rests, is a matter they settle to 
their own satisfaction by declaring that salt mack- 
erel was not intended for civilized people, be- 
cause they are unable to eat it without experien- 
cing disagreeable after-effects. 

Salt mackerel is really wholesome food, but, 
like all cured food, is not so digestible as when 
fresh : it is therefore necessary to restore it as 
near as possible to its original freshness. This 
is done by a thorough soaking in a liberal quan- 
tity of fresh water. There is no danger of the 
fish becoming too fresh ; if it does, it is an easy 
matter to add fresh salt, which is much more 
acceptable than condensed brine. 

In selecting salt mackerel, examine them care- 
fully. If rusty in appearance reject them, " for 



FRIED PORGTES WITH SALT PORK. 77 

rust in fish, if I am not mistaken, is as bad as 
rust in steel or rust in bacon." Large fish are 
likely to be poor and coarse ; a medium-sized or 
No. 2 is the most profitable provided the white 
or under part of the fish is fat. After soaking 
thoroughly, rub a litde melted butter or olive-oil 
over them, and broil not too close to the fire ; do 
not cook them enough to dry up all moisture, as 
they would then be unpalatable. After broiling, 
plunge them into boiling water for a moment to 
swell them, — this treatment gives the fish the 
appearance of being fat, — place on a hot plate, 
add a little melted butter, a dash of pepper, and 
finally the juice of half a lemon. 

To avoid the unpleasantness referred to, drink 
all liquids first, before eating a mouthful of the 
fish ; masticate the food thoroughly and slowly, 
and the result will be surprising. Those who 
eat salt fish alternated with mouthfuls of liquid 
must expect the oily particles to rise up, and 
create a gastronomic disturbance. 

Fried Porgies with Salt Pork. — The 
much-abused porgy is one of the sweetest of 
pan-fish. Select four good-sized porgies, and 
clean them, but do not remove the heads. Cut 
into small dice a quarter of a pound of fat salt 
pork, fry out the fat, and when it is very hot fry 
the fish in it. While they are cooking, broil four 



78 FISH CURRIES. 

small thin slices of the pork, and serve by placing 
them on top of the fish. Pork gives a more 
delicate flavor to the fish than bacon. 

Fish Curries. — Cold boiled or baked fish 
is simply a luxury when warmed up in a delicious 
curry sauce. This dish may be served at break- 
fast or luncheon. Americans are fast learning 
the usefulness of curry-powders ; as yet they de- 
mand a mild form of curry, and a little flour is 
added to the sauce to tone down the pungency 
of the curry. 

A Plain Fish Curry. — Fry an onion quite 
brown in a little butter or oil, add a teaspoonful 
of curry-powder and half a pint of hot water. 
Dissolve a teaspoonful of flour in a little cold 
water ; when free from lumps add it to the sauce, 
then strain ; divide the cold fish into flakes, and 
warm it up in the sauce. 

Curry of Scallops. — Wash a quart of 
scallops in cold water, drain, put them in a sauce- 
pan, and let them simmer gently one hour. 
Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, remove 
husks, and fry a delicate brown ; drain from the 
hot butter, and pound to a paste with a clove of 
garlic, the grated rind of a lemon. IMix two tea- 
spoonfuls of curry, a little sauce, and an ounce 
of butter, put it in the frying-pan, and add grad- 
ually one half-pint of the scallop broth and the 



CURRY OF CR.\YFISH. 79 

almond paste. Now add a pint of hot milk ; 
simmer until the liquid is reduced one-third, 
add the scallops, and serve. 

Curry of Crayfish. — These maybe pur- 
chased by the quart at all seasons. They are 
already boiled. Prepare the curry sauce as 
above described, add the crayfish, and serve 
with rice ; over all squeeze the juice of a sweet 
orange. 

Curry of Eels, with Rice. — Cut into two- 
inch pieces one medium-sized eel or two small 
ones ; put them in a saucepan, and cover with 
boiling water ; add a little salt, a piece of lemon- 
peel, and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; boil slowly 
one hour, and drain. Cut up a small onion, and 
fry it brown in a little butter ; add a pint of 
the water in which the fish was boiled, and a 
teaspoonful of walnut catsup. Mix together 
a teaspoonful of flour with a gill of cold water, 
rub it smooth, and add a teaspoonful of dry curry- 
powder. Mix, and add it to the pan, strain, and 
return to the pan ; then add the eels ; simmer 
fifteen minutes, and serve surrounded by a bor- 
der of boiled rice. 

Curry of Shad Roe. — Fry half an onion 
very brown in a heaping teaspoonful of dripping ; 
add a teaspoonful of curry-powder, and a few 
moments later add a gill of hot water ; simmer 



8o CURRY OF frogs' LEGS. 

five minutes, and add a teaspoonfnl of flour 
dissolved in a little water. When it begins to 
thicken, strain. While preparing the sauce, boil 
two roes in water well salted. When done, place 
them on a hot platter, and pour the sauce over 
them. 

Curry of Frogs' Legs. — This is an excel- 
lent dish. Wash one pound of frogs' legs in cold 
water ; brown one-fourth of an onion in oil or 
butter ; add a teaspoonful of curry and a pint of 
hot water ; pour this in a saucepan, and add tlie 
frogs ; simmer an hour and a half, and drain. 
Mix a teaspoonful each of rice-flour and curry 
to a paste, with the broth ; add salt to taste, 
and half a pint of milk. Place on the range, and 
when hot add the frogs. Blanch two dozen sweet 
almonds ; rub off the skins, split them, and toss 
them about in hot butter ; season with pepper 
and salt ; when done squeeze a little lemon-juice 
over them, and send to table on separate dish 
with the curry. 

Broiled Weakfish. — When freshly caught, 
this is an excellent fish and well flavored ; but 
it loses its flavor when kept on ice more than 
a day, and the flesh becomes soft and spongy. 
In color the weakfish is of a bluish-gray, with 
faint speckled back and sides, belly white, the 
fins yellow. It is in season from May to Octo- 



BAKED WHITEFISH, BORDEAUX SAUCE. 8 1 

ber, and is best-flavored in the latest two months 
of that time. Select a medium-sized fish for 
broiling; see that the flesh is firm, the eyes 
bright, and the gills a bright red, and free from a 
soft, flabby appearance. Place the well-cleaned 
whole fish on the table or fish-board, back 
towards you ; make an incision close to the 
head, down to the bone ; hold the head firmly 
with the left hand, and cut the fish in two length- 
wise, keeping the knife close to the bone the 
whole length of the fish ; remove the bone. (The 
bone and head may be boiled a few hours, sea- 
soned, and the broth used in fast-day soups.) 
Cut each piece of fish in two, crosswise ; rub on 
a little sweet oil or melted butter ; broil the 
outer side first, then the inner side, and serve 
with this side upwards on the hot dish ; pour 
over the fish well-made drawn butter (which 
see). 

Baked Whitefish, Bordeaux Sauce. — 
Clean and stuff the fish. Put it in a baking-pan, 
and add a liberal quantity of butter, previously 
rolled in flour, to the fish. Put in the pan half 
a pint of claret, and bake for an hour. Remove 
the fish, and strain the gravy ; add to tlie latter 
a gill more of claret, a teaspoonful of brown 
flour, and a pinch of cayenne, and serve with 
the fish. 



82 HALIBUT EGG SAUCE. 

Halibut, Egg Sauce. — Select a three- 
pound piece of white halibut, cover it with a 
cloth, and place it in a steamer ; set the steamer 
over a pot of fast boiling water, and steam two 
hours ; place it on a hot dish, surrounded with 
a border of parsley ; and serve with egg-sauce, 
which is made as follows : — 

Egg Sauce. — Cream an ounce of butter; 
add to it one tablespoonful of dry flour, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and half a salt spoonful of white 
pepper (black pepper spoils its color). Stir it 
briskly, and add half a pint of hot water. Divide 
an ounce of butter into little balls, roll them in 
flour, and add them one at a time ; stir con- 
stantly, and care should be exercised not to 
allow the sauce to brown or discolor. Chop 
three cold hard-boiled eggs, and add them to 
the sauce ; let it heat thoroughly, and serve in a 
boat. 

Fried Butterfish. — These flat, slate-col- 
ored little fish are excellent when quite fresh ; 
and as they are easily cleaned, they are recom- 
mended to house-keepers. Fry them in tried- 
out salt-pork fat, which gives them a very nice 
flavor. 

Broiled Shad. — The secret of having the 
fish juicy, and at the same time properly cooked, 
is to rub a little olive-oil over it before broilins:, 



BAKED SHAD. 83 

and broil it over a fire free from smoke or flame. 
Charcoal affords the best fire. The sulphurous 
fumes of hard coal injure the flavor of the fish. 
When done, have ready a little sweet butter melted 
and mixed with salt, white pepper (black pepper 
spoils the looks of the fish), half a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley to two ounces of butter, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Place the fish on a 
hot dish, pour the hot sauce over it, and serve 
with hot plates. 

Baked Shad. — Broiling is, next to planking, 
the best way of cooking this excellent fish ; but 
a baked shad is not to be despised. Prepare it 
as follows : — 

Make a stuffing of soaked bread-crumbs, butter, 
pepper, and salt ; place it lengthwise in a pan ; 
roll walnuts of butter in flour, and put four to 
six of them on top of the fish ; fill the space 
around the fish with inch slices of raw potato, 
and bake forty minutes. When done, serve pota- 
toes and fish together. 

Shad Roe a la Poulette. — Cover a pair 
of roes with water slightly salted ; add a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and a slice of lemon ; simmer 
twenty minutes, and drain ; put into a saucepan 
an ounce of butter ; when it begins to melt, whisk 
it, and add the juice of half a lemon. 

Beat up the yolk of one eg§ with a gill of 



84 BROILED ROVANS. 

cream containing half a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently into 
the warm butter; keep it (juite warm until it 
thickens, but do not boil, or it will curdle. Pour 
it over the shad roes, strew over the top a trifle 
of chopped parsley, and serve. 

Broiled Royans. — These delicate little fish 
are excellent as whet at dinner-parties, and may 
be served au naturel, or broiled, or served on 
toast. Procure them from the nearest grocer, 
open the can carefully to prevent breaking the 
fish, remove the skin, and broil them over a 
slow fire ; arrange them on toast, squeeze a little 
lemon-juice over them, and serve. 

Broiled Sardines. — When neatly prepared, 
this forms an excellent breakfast or luncheon 
dish. 

Remove the sardines from the can without 
breaking them ; scrape off the skin, place them 
between double wire broilers, and broil to a 
delicate brown ; arrange neatly in a hot dish, 
squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and serve. 
Orange-juice is very nice with the above dish. 

Broiled Smelts, Sauce Tartare. — Thor- 
oughly clean half a dozen smelts, split them in 
two, place them on a double wire broiler, and 
broil. Send to table with sauce tartare, which 
is made as follows : Chop together a few sprigs 



SMELT FRIED, SAUCE TARTARE. 85 

of parsley, six capers, one small pickle, a piece of 
onion as large as a bean. Add these to half a 
pint of mayonnaise, mix, and add a teaspoonful 
of French mustard, mix again, and serve. 

Smelts Fried, Sauce Tartare. — Clean 
six small smelts, leave on the heads, dip them in 
beaten egg, roll them in fine cracker-dust, 
and fry in very hot fat. Serve with sauce 
tartare. 

Broiled Whitefish. — The whitefish is one 
of the best of summer fish, but does not stand 
long transportation very v/ell. See that the flesh 
is firm, and free from flabbiness. Cut the fish 
in two lengthwise, remove the backbone, divide 
each piece in two ; brush over it a little sweet 
butter or olive-oil, and broil over a moderate fire 
for ten minutes. Place it in a hot dish, squeeze 
the juice of a lemon over it, add salt and pepper 
and a tablespoonful of melted butter. Garnish 
with tufts of parsley and thin slices of lemon, 
and serve. 

Sheeps-head with Drawn Butter. — The 
Englishman who wrote the extraordinary state- 
ment that sheeps-head sometimes sold for " four 
or five pounds sterling in New York " may be 
pleased to learn that the price for this excellent 
fish is fifteen to eighteen cents per pound on an 
average, and that the best mode of preparing it 



86 DRAWN BUTTER. 

for table is to boil or steam it, although broiled 
sheeps-head is very good. 

Procure a medium-sized fish, clean it thor- 
oughly, and rub a little salt over it ; wrap it in a 
cloth, and put it in a steamer ; place this over 
a pot of fast boiling water, and steam one hour ; 
then lay it whole upon a hot side-dish, garnish 
with tufts of parsley and slices of lemon, and 
serve with drawn butter prepared as follows : — 

Dra^vn Butter. — Take four ounces of 
butter, and roll it into small balls ; dredge these 
with flour ; put one-fourth of them in a sauce- 
pan, and as they begin to melt whisk them ; add 
the remainder, one at a time, until thoroughly 
smooth ; while stirring add a tablespoonful of 
lemon-juice and half a teaspoonfal of chopped 
parsley ; pour into a hot sauce-boat, and serve. 

Broiled Sheeps-head. — Spht the fish in 
two lengthwise, and remove the head and bone, 
brush over the fish a liberal quantity of melted 
butter or oil, then broil over a fire free from 
flame or smoke. When done, squeeze the juice 
of a lemon over the fish, then add salt, pepper, 
and a pat of the choicest table butter. 



THE CHAFING DISH 



CONTENTS. 











PAGE 


Oysters, 7 


Deviled Oysters, . 








7 


Oyster Broth, 








8 


Quick Vegetable Soup 








8 


Clam Broth, 








8 


ClaiMs Epicurean, . 








8 


Mussels, 








9 


Steamed Soft Clams, 








10 


Scallops, 








II 


Scallop Stew, 








II 


Curry of Scallops, 








II 


Curry of Shrimp, 








12 


Curry of Clams, . 








13 


Fish Curries, 








13 


Brook Trout, 








13 


Shad Roe, 








. 14 


Hamburg Herring, 








• 15 


Crab Cakes, . 








16 


Curry of Crabs, . 








16 


Soft Shell Crabs, 








i6 



ii CONTENTS. 






PAGE 


Soft Shell Crabs Deviled, . • 17 


Lobster Deviled, . 




17 


Lobster Pompodoro, 






17 


Lobster Patties, . 






17 


Lobster Cutlets, . 






i8 


Lobster Paprika, . 






18 


Curry of Lobster, 






19 


Rice for Curry, . 






19 


Lobster a la Newburg 






20 


Shrimp Patties, . 






22 


Shrimps in Butter, 






23 


Codfish Tongues, . 






23 


Frogs Legs, . 






24 


Frog Leg Patties, 






. 24 


Curry of Salmon, 






24 


Eels, 






. 25 


Stewed Eels, 






• 25 


Curried Eels, 






. 26 


Curry of Eels, 






. 26 


Turtle Steak, 






. 26 


Turtle Steak Deviled, 




. 26 


Turtle Steak a la Henry Guy 


Carl 


E- 


ton, .... 




. 27 


Curry of Prawns, 






. 27 


Terrapin, 






. 28 


Snails, . 






. 29 


Snails on Toast, . 






. 29 


Poached Eggs, 






, 29 



CONTENTS. 






iii 


PAGE 


Eggs with Cheese, . . . .30 


Eggs with Asparagus Tops, 




• S'^ 


Eggs with Brown Butter, . 




' 30 


Eggs with Chives, 






• 30 


Eggs a la Brisbane, 






31 


Boiled Eggs, 






• 31 


Eggs with Curry, 






• 31 


Eggs with Garlic Oil, 






31 


Eggs with Kidneys, 






• 31 


Kidneys with Bacon, . 






• 32 


Kidneys and Potato, . 






3- 


Kidneys with Mushrooms, 






• 32 


Curried Veal Chops, . 






33 


Veal Tomato Sauce, . 






33 


Curry of Sweetbreads, 






33 


Calf's Liver with Bacon, . 






34 


" " " Gravy, 






34 


Roast Beef for Breakfast 


OR I 


^UNCI 


i- 


eon, 






34 


Steak Rechauffe, 






34 


Tripe, .... 






35 


Curried Tripe, 






35 


Curried Tripe and Onions, 






35 


Chops and Cutlets, 






36 


Pig's Feet, . 






36 


Potatoes Lyonnaise, 






36 


Potatoes a l'Ete, 






36 


Potato Dice, 






37 



IV 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


Mushrooms, . 


. 


37 


Puff-Balls, . 


• 


37 


Green Peas, . 




37 


Canned Peas, 




. 38 


Chicken Gallosch, 


38 


Beef Gallosch, 


, , . , 


. 38 


Pork Tenderloin, 


39 


The Mysteries 


OF Welsh Rabbits, 


■ 39 



INTRODUCTORY. 



Chafing dish cookery is the latest fad 
among the amateur and professional gourmets 
of Gotham. 

Chafing dish clubs have not only been 
formed in the family circle but many of the 
leading clubs of New York have taken up the 
subject with the cheerful prospect that in a 
few years from now, to be an Amercian wilL 
be synonymous with possessing a knowledge 
of the art of cookery although it has been the 
reverse in the past. 

The sound common sense displayed in this 
fad shows that society is not the vapid thing 
our humorous journals would have us believe 
it to be. Society to-day is advancing so 
rapidly towards the practical, that not to know 
a great deal about cookery and dainty dining 
is to announce one's educational deficiencies 
and lack of social standing. 

As chafing dish cookery is practised at ta- 
ble, it is not only a gustatory treat, but an 



VI INTRODUCTORY. 

intellectual entertainment as well. The pal- 
ate-ravishing aromas which arise, keenly 
sharpen the most jaded appetite, and the prepa- 
ration of the viands loosens the tongue of the 
most bashful, ending in useful and instructive 
discussion. 

The Author. 



THE CHAFING DISH. 



Oysters.— Put into a chafing dish a heaping 
table-spoonful of table butter, sprinkle over it 
a pinch of flour; when the butter begins to 
melt stir it rapidly with a wooden spoon, sea- 
son with a saltspoonful of salt and a dash of 
cayenne, add a gill of oyster liquor, stir and 
simmer a few seconds then add eighteen oys- 
ters. When the gills begin to curl up they 
will be cooked enough; serve plain or on 
toast. 

Oysters "No. 2.— Put into a chafing dish 
a tea-spoonful of butter ; let it become quite 
hot. Drain and dry in a napkin ten oysters, 
dredge them in a little flour, shake off the 
loose flour, then cook them in the butter until 
they are a delicate brown on both sides : sea- 
son with salt and pepper. 

Deviled Oysters Mix together a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, a saltspoonful of 
dry mustard, a saltspoonful each of salt and 
white pepper and the yolk of one raw egg; 



8 OYSTER BROTH. 

work to a paste with a table-spoonful of oil, 
spread this over six large or twelve small oys- 
ters. Put into a chafing dish two table-spoon- 
fuls of olive oil ; when hot add the oysters and 
cook well done. 

Oyster Broth.— Chop up two dozen medium 
sized oysters, put it into a chafing dish with 
three half pints of oyster liquor or water, sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and a walnut of butter ; 
serve in small cups. 

Qmck Vegetable Soup.— Put into a chaf- 
ing dish three pints of water, when it boils 
add two table-spoonfuls of canned mace- 
doine, a table-spoonful of maggi bouillon, salt 
and pepper to taste and serve. Dried juli- 
enne which comes in paper packages may be 
used instead of the macedoine but requires 
ten minutes cooking. Peas, etc. may also be 
used. 

Clam Broth.— Chop up a dozen little neck 
clams, put them into a chafing dish with 
a pint and a half of clam broth or hot water, 
a walnut of butter, a dash of cayenne, and a 
single clove. Simmer five minutes and serve 
with toasted bread dice. Some like the broth 
thickened with a little cracker dust. 

Clams Epicurean.— Put into the chafing 
dish a tea-spoonful of butter, a dash of 



kUSSELS. 

cayenne, and a dozen small clams; simmer 
five minutes, add a table-spoonful of sherry, a 
tea-spoonful of Epicurean sauce and serve on 
toasted crackers. 

Mussels.— Boil two dozen mussels in their 
shells twenty minutes : when cool remove them 
from the shells and put them in the chafing 
dish with a scant table-spoonful of butter, a 
pinch of curry powder, a gill of claret and a 
little salt. Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of 
browned flour in a gill of water, stir into the 
dish, simmer until the sauce thickens and serve. 

Mussels No. 2. -Boil the mussels as in 
the foregoing recipe. Put into the chafing 
dish a table-spoonful of butter, when hot add 
a minced onion and fry it brown. Add a pint 
of dark beef gravy or hot water thickened 
with browned flour and colored with kitchen 
bouquet or kitchen caramel ; stir into the 
sauce a tea-spoonful of paprika, add two dozen 
boiled Mussels : when thoroughly warmed 
through, serve. 

Mussels No. 3.— Proceed as in the fore- 
going recipe except that after the onion is 
cooked add a tea-spoonful of curry powder 
instead of paprika. 

Mussels No. 4.— Put into the chafing dish 
two table-spoonfuls of table butter, stir it rap- 



10 STEAMED SOFT CLAMS. 

idly as it melts and add two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of pompodoro or tomato paste; 
mix together thoroughly, add a pint of hot 
water or better still beef broth, salt and cay- 
enne to taste ; in this sauce warm up two 
dozen mussels. 

Steamed Soft Clams.— Wash a dozen soft 
or paper shell clams thoroughly so as to 
free them from all sand and grit ; put into a 
chafing dish a scant table-spoonful of butter, 
put in the clams, shells and all, pile them up 
in the dish evenly, cover well ; light the chaf- 
ing dish lamp and let them cook in their own 
juice at least fifteen minutes. 

Have ready a hot vegetable dish half filled 
with hot melted butter, remove the shells and 
the black skin covering the necks, take hold 
of the latter, dip the body of each clam into 
the hot butter and eat them while hot with a 
slice of Boston brown bread. Oysters and 
Little Neck Clams may be thus treated. 

Soft Clams No. 2.— Remove the shells 
from a dozen soft or paper shell clams, trim 
off two-thirds of the tough neck. Cut three 
thin slices of bacon about four inches long, 
into dice ; put these into the chafing dish and 
fry them crisp. Add the soft clams and cook 
them well done in the bacon fat. 



SCALLOPS. 1 1 

Scallops. — Scald two dozen scallops, drain 
and dry them in a napkin, then fry them in 
the chafing dish with three table-spoonfuls of 
butter. 

Scallop Stew.— Boil two dozen large scal- 
lops thirty minutes in water seasoned with 
salt, three whole cloves and a bit of mace. 
Take four table-spoonfuls of table butter, 
divide it into balls, dredge these w ith flour ; 
put one-third of the number into the chafing 
dish and whisk them rapidly, add a gill of the 
scallop water and as it thickens add one at 
a time the remainder of the butter balls ; 
when it becomes too thick add a little 
more of the scallop water using a pint of it 
altogether. When the ingredients are all 
used, add salt and cayenne to taste ; warm up 
the scallops in this and just before ser\ang 
squeeze over the dish the juice of half a 
lemon. 

Scallop Stew.— Parboil the scallops fifteen 
minutes, put them in the chafing dish with 
nearly a pint of boiled milk, salt, pepper and 
a walnut of butter ; simmer ten minutes. 

Curry of Scallops.— Make a curry sauce by 
putting into the chafing dish the heaping table- 
spoonful of olive oil, butter or beef drippings ; 
in this fry a minced onion brown, add a tea- 



12 CURRY OF SHRIMP. 

spoonful of curry powder, let it cook a 
moment and add a pint of consomme or veal 
broth with salt to taste. Thicken this slightly 
with a little flour dissolved in cold water, 
simmer till smooth, add a tea-spoonful of 
chutney if convenient, and in this sauce warm 
up a pint of boiled scallops. 

Curry of Shrimp.— Put into a chafing dish 
a table-spoonful of olive oil or butter, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped onion and fry a delicate 
brown ; add a tea-spoonful of curry powder. 
Allow the powder to cook a moment, then add 
a pint of beef broth ; simmer ten minutes 
and add a tea-spoonful of rice flour dissolved 
in cold water. Let boil until it thickens 
slightly, then strain into another dish. Open 
a can of shrimps, rinse them off with cold 
water, add them to the curry sauce, warm up 
the dish, then pour over it three tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh orange juice, and serve with 
boiled rice. 

Shrimp Curry No. 2.— Fry a minced onion 
with a table-spoonful of beef drippings ; when 
brown add a heaping table-spoonful of curry 
powder, a tea-spoonful of rice flour, and a 
heaping saltspoonful of salt ; stir to prevent 
burning and when the ingredients are in 
danger of burning add a pint of hot water 



CURRY OF CLAMS. I^ 

or broth. Cook until the sauce thickens 
slightly, strain and add a square of sugar, a 
heaping table-spoonful of either chutney, 
apple or cranberry sauce. Put into the sauce 
a can of shrimps, let the whole warm through 
thoroughly. Arrange on a platter a border of 
boiled rice, put the curried shrimp in the 
centre, squeeze over the shrimp the juice of 
a lime and over the rice sprinkle the juice of 
an orange. 

Curry of Clams.— Both the little neck and 
the paper shell clams are very good served 
as a chafing dish curry, the body part of the 
soft clam should only be used, as the re- 
mainder is somewhat tough. The Little 
Necks, if cooked too much will be tough. 
Serve them with a plain curry sauce, made as 
the sauce for curry of scallops. 

Fish Curries.— Cold fish of any kind may 
be advantageously served in the chafing dish 
the next day in the form of a curry. All that 
is accessary is to warm up the fish in the 
sauce ; care must be exercised however not to 
break or separate the fish into too fine pieces. 
Canned salmon, etc., are all excellent and 
quite convenient for chafing dish cookery 
either plain or as a curry. 

Brook Trout.— Small brook trout may be 



14 SHAD ROE A LA CHARLES W. BROOKE. 

sauteed in a chafing dish at table or they may 
be steamed by filling a hot water dish with hot 
water, then placing over it a sieve or steamer. 
The rising steam will cook the fish in a very 
few minutes. A little butter may be melted in 
a flat dish used as a cover. 

Shad Roe a la Charles W. Brooke.— Scald 
a pair of shad roe, when cool remove the thin 
membrane. Put the roe into a small saucepan, 
cover with white wine, season with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one clove, and a very small 
piece of mace. Cover the dish and simmer 
half an hour. 

Wash a pint of scallops in cold water, drain, 
put them into a saucepan and cover with hot 
water ; season with i of a tea-spoonful of salt, 
an eighth of a bay leaf, four whole allspice and 
two cloves. Cover the dish and boil half an 
hour. 

Put into a small saucepan a heaping table- 
spoonful of butter; as it melts whisk it and add 
a heaping table-spoonful of flour, and a gill of 
the water in which the scallops were boiled. 
Whisk rapidly and add another large spoonful 
of butter, another gill of the scallop water, a 
tea-spoonful of garlic juice, and i of a tea-spoon- 
ful of salt. Stir rapidly until quite smooth 
and of a velvety appearance, and incorporate 



HAMBURG HERRING. 15 

in it another spoonful of butter, using three 
in all. 

Allow the sauce to cool a little, then whisk 
into it the beaten yolks of three eggs. 

Drain off the water from the shad roe and 
the scallops. 

Put the roe into a chafing dish, arrange the 
scallops over them neatly. Now cover the 
scallops with a thin layer of freshly grated 
horse-radish, using half a pint. Over this pour 
the sauce. Light the burner and when the 
horse-radish is thoroughly heated, serve. 

Hamburg Herring.— We are indebted to a 
distinguished German gourmet for a most tooth- 
some Lenten dainty. It is a fat herring which 
was put into a smoke house almost alive. 
When thoroughly smoked it is packed in tins 
while warm, and sealed. No salt is used in 
the curing of the dainty; they must therefore 
be used shortly after the tin is opened. 

They taste like fresh herring — one of the 
sweetest of fish — with the addition of that 
peculiar appetizing flavor so characteristic of 
the products of the smoke house. 

As a relish they are superior in flavor to kip- 
pered or any other style or kind of prepared 
fish. They are imported from Hamburg, Ger- 
many. 



l6 CRAB CAKES. 

Like nearly every other kind of cured fish, 
this new tidbit requires but warming through 
to be fully appreciated. 

Remove the skin carefully without breaking 
the flesh, warm it up with a little butter in a 
chafing dish. 

Crab Cakes.— The meat from the hard shell 
crabs, after boiling, may be made into little 
cakes, held together with the yolk of an egg, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, then cooked on 
both sides in the chafing dish with a small 
amount of butter or oil. 

Curry of Crabs.— Open a can of canned crab 
meat and turn it out into a dish ; examine it 
for small pieces of shell ; in their hurry the 
canners are sometimes careless and throw in 
pieces of shell with the meat. Make a curry 
sauce as for curry of scallops (which see), warm 
the crab meat in it and serve with boiled rice. 
The meat from fresh caught crabs of course is 
to be preferred, but the former is more conven- 
ient for city folks. 

Soft Shell Crabs.— Clean the crabs by re- 
moving the sand pouch, and feathery gill like 
particles found under the side points of the 
shell ; dry them in a towel, dredge with flour 
and cook them in a chafing dish until a delicate 
brown. 



SOFT SHELI^ CRABS DEVILED. 17 

Soft Shell Crabs Deviled.— Make a paste 
of a table-spoonful of curry powder, a tea-spoon- 
ful of made English mustard, a tea-spoonful of 
Epicurean sauce, half a tea-spoonful of salt and 
a liberal tea-spoonful of oil ; spread this paste 
over the soft crabs and cook them in the cha- 
fing dish at table with a liberal quantity of but- 
ter or beef drippings. Do not put them 
into the chafing dish until the fat is very 
hot. 

Lobster Deviled.— Split the tail part of a 
boiled lobster in two, remove the thread like 
intestine found in the centre, cover with the 
paste recommended for Soft Crabs Deviled and 
cook ten minutes in the chafing dish. The 
raw lobster is much better for this purpose, but 
it must be cooked well. 

Lobster Pompodoro.— Cut into neat pieces 
the tail part of two lobsters. Procure from an 
Italian grocer a can of pompodoro, which is a 
kind of imported tomato paste. Put into the 
chafing dish two heaping table-spoonfuls of 
table butter and three of the paste, whisk rap- 
idly together as they melt, then add a pint of 
broth or water, simmer until it thickens; warm 
up the lobster in this. A hundred other food 
items may be similarly treated. 

Lobster Patties,— The small patty shells 



l8 LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

may be obtained from the nearest caterer or 
baker. Warm them before using. 

Put into the hot water dish of the chafing dish 
two thirds of a pint of hot water ; over this put 
the handled dish and in it boil a pint of milk. 
Dissolve a table-spoonful of flour in a little cold 
milk, add it to the hot milk ; when thick stir 
in gradually two heaping table-spoonfuls of 
table butter. Let it become quite thick by 
cooking. Cut into small pieces the tail part 
of two boiled lobsters, season well with salt 
and pepper and over it squeeze a little lemon 
juice ; add the lobster to the sauce, reduce 
the heat and serve by filling the heated shells 
with the mixture. 

Lobster Cutlets.— Use live lobsters for this 
purpose. See to it that they are lively, then 
kill them by cleaving the heads in two; re- 
move the tail part, cut each tail in two and 
cook the meat thoroughly with beef dripping 
or butter ; season with salt and cayenne. 

Lobster Paprika.— Fry in the chafing dish 
minced onion brown, with a table-spoonful of 
beef dripping or olive oil, add a pint of good 
strong beef broth or consomme, a tea-spoonful 
cfi. the Hungarian mild red pepper called 
Paprika. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of flour in a 
gill of cold water, add it also with half a tea- 



CURRY OF LOBSTER. I9 

spoonful of salt, simmer until the sauce 
thickens a little, then add boiled lobster meat 
cut up, or in cutlet form ; simmer five minutes 
longer and serve. A tea-spoonful of pompo- 
doro will improve this sauce. 

Curry of Lobster. — A delicious curry may 
be made from lobster as follows : — Put into 
chafing dish a table-spoonful of butter. When 
it foams add a heaping table-spoonful of 
minced onion. Let the onion brown well, 
then add a heaping tea-spoonful of curry pow- 
der. Allow this to cook from three to five 
minutes or until it becomes almost black. Add 
a pint of rice water, or soup stock if preferred; 
season with half a tea-spoonful of salt, simmer 
five minutes and add a pint more of the rice 
water ; simmer until reduced nearly one-half, 
then warm up the lobster in the sauce and 
serve with boiled rice. There must be suffi- 
cient sauce to allow the meat to almost float 
about in it. The rice water referred to is water 
in which rice was boiled. It is scientifically 
of more nutritive value than the rice itself. 

Rice for Curry.— The essential point to be 
gained is that after boiling, each grain of rice 
must be distinct and unbroken, yet tender and 
to every appearance fairly ready to burst yet re- 
mains intact. To accomplish this a small 



20 LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

quantity of rice must be cooked in a large 
volume of water. An ordinary half pint cupful 
of rice should be boiled in at least a gallon of 
water. It will surprise the uninitiated when 
they compare the bulk of the rice before and 
after cooking. The rice should be first well 
washed in several waters ; reject all husks 
and imperfect grains ; put the rice into cold 
water slightly salted and boil about twenty- 
five minutes. Old rice requires a little longer 
cooking. The grains should occasionally be 
tested, and when a slight pressure will crush 
them they are done. If boiled until the 
grains burst the rice is spoiled for serving" 
with curry. If boiled in a small volume of 
water the rice is also rendered useless as the 
grains will stick together. After boiling, the 
rice should be placed over the range where it 
will throw off the moisture absorbed in the 
boiling. 

Lobster a la Newburg. — Lobster a la New- 
burg is now a popular dish on our restaurant 
bills of fare. 

A recent writer on gastronomic matters, in 
speaking of the origin of the dish said: " It 
was invented by a resident of Newburg on the 
Hudson, who named it after his native town." 

Were it not for the fact that a number of 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 21 

the old habitues of Dehnonico's are still alive 
to prove the falsity of this statement, the fu- 
ture epicurean historian might be led to make 
the same error as past writers have made in 
their attempt to trace the origin of many of 
the popular dishes of to-day. 

Lobster a la Newburg was invented by Ben 
Wenberg. " Ben " as he was called was in 
every sense of the word a true gastronome. 
Mr. Wenberg probably did more to popular- 
ize the chafing dish than any one of the pa- 
trons of Delmonico's. In those good old 
days Wenberg would gather about him a half 
a dozen congenial spirits, and cook for them 
at table the stewed lobster which honestly 
deserves to be named after him. Old Charles 
Delmonico once put a la Wenberg on the bill 
of fare in honor of its inventor but the mod- 
esty of the epicure objected so earnestly that 
to please him the first half of the name was 
reversed and the dish became Newburg in- 
stead of Wenberg. It is made as follows : 

Put into a chafing dish three ounces of 
butter, stir it as it creams ; add a gill of water 
containing a teaspoonful of flour, season with 
salt and cayenne ; pour in a pint of boiled 
milk, stir and simmer till smooth. Beat up 
the yolks of three raw eggs, let the boiled 



22 LA NEWBURG. 

milk, etc. cool a little by reducing the heat, 
then add the egg, half a gill of sherry ; work all 
together and in it warm up the meat from 
the boiled lobsters. 

Almost every cook has a different way of 
making sauce ; the most popular one is the 
cream sauce usually served with Terrapin. 
A friend of Mr. Wenberg's told me he did not 
use eggs in his. 

Here is another formula. 

La Newburg. — Divide two medium sized 
lobsters in halves. Remove the coral and 
creamy green fat and put one side. Put into 
a chafing dish two ounces of table butter. 
When it creams whisk into it a gill of Madeira 
or sherry. Simmer until reduced one-half. 
Beat together the yolks of three eggs and half 
a pint of rich cream, season with a little salt 
and cayenne pepper. Divide three ounces of 
table butter into little balls, dredge these with 
flour and one by one add to the sauce, whisk- 
ing thoroughly as each butter ball is added. 
Reduce to a paste the coral and the tom-alley 
and stir into the sauce. Simmer until the 
sauce becomes of a creamy consistency, then 
add the lobster, mix and serve. 

Shrimp Patties.— This is a delicious lunch- 
eon dish and may be prepared at table by the 



SHRIMPS IN BUTTER. 23 

lady, as the pattie shells may be obtained 
from the nearest caterer or baker. Put into 
the chafing dish a pint of hot milk, add to it a 
table-spoonful of flour previously dissolved in 
a little cold milk, simmer until thick and stir 
into it gradually two ounces of butter and half 
a tea-spoonful of salt. Open a can of New 
Orleans shrimp, take them out of the can and 
the linen bag in which they come and rinse in 
cold water ; cut them in two and send to table 
with heated patty shells ; warm up the shrimp 
in the sauce in the chafing dish, fill the patty 
shells and serve. 

Shrimps in Butter.-Put into the chafing 
dish two table-spoonfuls of butter, toss the 
shrimp about in it, add the juice of half a 
lime, a dash of cayenne, a gill of water ; cook 
three minutes and serve. 

Codfish Tongues.— Scald the codfish tongues 
a moment, drain and cut them each into four 
pieces, cook them six minutes in the chafing 
dish with two table-spoonfuls of butter, add 
the juice of half a lemon, a sprig of parsley 
chopped up and a tea-spoonful of mushroom 
catsup. 

Codfish Tongues No. 2.— Boil tiiree codfish 
tongues in water slightly salted thirty minutes 
and send them to table for the chafing dish. 



24 CODFISH TONGUES NO. 2. 

Put into the hot water dish half a pint of hot 
water, over this place the chaiing dish proper. 
Bruise a clove of garlic, put it in the upper 
dish with a heaping table-spoonful of butter, 
whisk it with a wooden spoon, add a table- 
spoonful of flour and a pint of milk ; stir con- 
stantly and whisk into it the beaten yolks of 
two eggs ; season with salt and pepper, warm 
up the codfish tongues in the sauce, before 
serving, add the juice of a lemon. Care must 
be exercised not to allow the eggs to curdle. 

Progs Legs.— Boil four pairs of frogs legs in 
milk forty minutes and send to table for the 
chafing dish. They may afterwards be pre- 
pared for the guests by warming them up in 
anyone of the sauces heretofore recommended. 

Prog Leg Patties.— Boil the legs until the 
meat falls from the bone ; remove the bones 
and send the meat to table with small patty 
shells previously warmed. Prepare a sauce as 
for lobster patties, warm the meat up in it and 
serve. 

Curry of Salmon.— Cold boiled salmon 
may be served as a curry in a chafing dish 
and a salmon steak cooked in a curry sauce is 
very good eating, but there is no better way 
of serving canned salmon than as a curry. 
The only point is to be sure to buy the best 



CURRY OF SALMON. 25 

known brand of canned salmon. Fry a 
■ninced onion brown in the chafing dish with 
an overflowing table-spoonful of olive oil, add 
two tea-spoonfuls of curry powder, let cook a 
moment and add a pint of hot water, a table- 
spoonful of flour dissolved in cold w^ater, a 
table-spoonful of tomato catsup or chutney, 
and a little salt, stir, simmer until the sauce 
thickens, then add the contents of a one 
pound can of salmon to the sauce ; let it warm 
through before serving. 

Eels.— Cut into three inch pieces two me- 
dium sized eels and parboil them half an 
hour ; dry in a napkin. Cut into dice two 
medium sized slices of fat salt pork, fry the 
pork out and in the fat finish cooking the 
eels ; add a little lemon juice before serv- 
ing. 

Stewed Eels.— Boil two pounds of medium 
sized salt water eels half an hour and send to 
table for the chafing dish. Put into the chaf- 
ing dish two scant tea-spoonfuls of butter, a 
minced onion, a bit of mace and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Allow the onion to cook 
until it is in danger of becoming from straw 
to a darker color, then add a pint of boiled 
milk ; add a scant tea-spoonful of flour dis- 
solved in a little cold milk, when smooth add 



26 CURRIED EELS. 

the eels, simmer five minutes longer before 
serving. 

Curried Eels.— Put into a chafing dish two 
table-sjDoonfuls of olive oil, before it gets too 
hot add a tea-spoonful of curry powder, now 
add a few pieces of cold eels, stir them round 
or shake the dish, to cover the pieces evenly 
with the curry ; when thoroughly heated 
through, serve. 

Curry of Eels.— Put into a chafing dish a 
heaping table-spoonful of butter, a minced 
onion, a tea-spoonful of curry powder, six 
pieces of raw eel, each about an inch long, 
cover and shake the dish to prevent burning ; 
cook five minutes and add a pint of veal 
broth, or better still, fish consomme', a tea- 
spoonful of chutney or tomato sauce. Serve 
with boiled rice. 

Turtle Steak.— Florida sends us turtle steak 
in cans, it is very convenient at times to have 
a can of it in the house ; in fact, all modern 
canned goods are quite useful and convenient 
in chafing dish cookery. The prejudice against 
such prepared food is absurd. Cook the 
steak in butter, season with salt, cayenne, a 
few spoonfuls of good sherry or port, and 
serve on toast. 

Turtle Steak Deviled.— Add to half a gill 



TURTLE STEAK DEVILED. 2^ 

of orange juice a tea-spoonful of corn powder 
and salt-spoonful of mustard, spread it over 
a turtle steak and cook the steak in a chafing 
dish five minutes on each side. 

Turtle Steak a la Henry Guy Carleton.— 
Melt two ounces of butter in a chafing dish, 
add a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, two 
table-spoonfuls of currant jelly, a gill of port 
wine, a dash of cayenne and a little salt. In 
this simmer the steak till tender ; finally add 
the juice of half a lime and serve. 

Curry of Prawns.— Put into a chafing dish a 
heaping table-spoonful of butter, when hot add 
a chopped spring onion or a young leek, cook a 
few moments and add a heaping tea-spoonful 
of curry powder, stir to prevent burning, allow 
it to cook a moment and add half a pint of 
hot water or beef stock, one small sour apple 
peeled and cut into dice, a square of sugar 
and a tea-spoonful of epicurean sauce ; cover 
and simmer until the apple is cooked, then add 
another half pint of beef broth, a quart of 
boiled prawns add to the sauce, heat them 
through, season with a small quantity of salt 
and a table-spoonful of tomato catsup, pour 
out the curry on to a hot platter, surround it 
with a border of boiled rice, squeeze over the 
curry the juice of half a lemon and serve. 



28 TERRAPIN. 

Terrapin.— Prepared terrapin is always to 
be had in New York and for this reason it is 
often seen served out of season. Thus pre- 
pared it simply requires warming up in the 
chafing dish, with a little sherry added. 

Terrapin No. 2.— A great deal of care 
should be exercised in selecting the live ter- 
rapin. This is the first and at the same time 
the most important step in the preparation of 
the dish. The best should be fresh caught 
and fresh and healthy looking, a pen terrapin 
spends most of its time seeking freedom. It 
worries under restraint and will prove poor 
eating, the liver will taste so rank that one 
can hardly eat it. The legs of the penned 
terrapin will show ebrasions on the under side 
where the poor thing injured itself seeking an 
avenue of escape. 

The right kind selected, plunge it into boil- 
ing water and boil fifteen minutes ; when cool 
remove the under shell, the skin from the 
legs, the gall bag and entrails and throw this 
refuse away. Put the remainder into a sauce- 
pan, season it with salt and a dash of cayenne ; 
add just water enough to prevent burning and 
simmer an hour. Now add a gill of good 
sherry and put it away as it is better the next 
day. Put into the chafing dish a scant table- 



SNAILS. 29 

spoonful of table butter, and a salt-spoonful of 
flour, rub this smooth and add the terrapin 
with two table-spoonfuls of sherry, cook three 
minutes and serve. 

Snails.— Rinse a quart of snails in cold 
water slightly salted, drain and boil them half 
an hour in barely sufficient water to cover 
them ; when cool pick them out of the shells, 
cut off the nose and the tip end of the tails, 
put them back in the shells, then put them 
into the chafing dish, add half a pint of strong 
beef gravy or broth, a table-spoonful each of 
epicurean sauce and claret, salt to taste, 
simmer until the sauce is nearly evaporated. 

Snails on Toast.— Boil the snails as in the 
foregoing recipe, pick them out of the shells 
and chop them fine, season slightly with salt, 
white pepper and nutmeg, warm this hash in 
the chafing dish with a little butter, when 
ready serve on thin buttered toast. 

Poached Eggs.— In parts of New England 
they call this dish " poached eggs." Beat up 
six eggs, add a salt-spoonful of salt and a pint 
of milk. Put over the hot water dish the 
chafing dish proper ; put into the latter a 
table-spoonful of butter, when melted stir in 
the egg mixture and keep stirring it with a 
fork until it sets. Serve on toast. 



30 POACHED EGGS. 

Poached Eggs.— Put into the hot water dish 
of the chafing dish, six poached egg rings, 
surround them with hot water, carefully break 
an egg into each ring and when firm place on 
buttered toast. 

Eggs with Cheese.— Break into a well but- 
tered chafing dish six eggs, stir them back 
and forth with a fork as for scrambled eggs ; 
when set, sprinkle a few drops of vinegar over 
the eggs, salt and pepper to taste and finally 
a liberal layer of grated cheese. 

Eggs with Asparagus Tops.— Proceed as in 
the foregoing recipe except to omit the cheese 
and substitute asparagus points from the aspar- 
agus left from the preceding dinner. When 
the asparagus points are hot, serve. 

Eggs with Brown Butter.— Allow three 
heaping table-spoonfuls of butter to cook in 
the chafing dish until almost black. Drop 
into it carefully four eggs and as they cook, 
throw the butter over them with a spoon. 
When well done place on thin toast, add a 
few drops of tarragon vinegar and serve. 

Eggs with Chives.— Break six eggs into 
the chafing dish proper, which should be 
placed over the hot water dish, add to them a 
tea-spoonful of chopped chives, a dash of 
paprika, a little salt, and serve. 



EGGS WITH CHIVES. 3 1 

Eggs a la Brisbane.— Mr. Arthur Brisbane, 
the distinguished journalist, prepares scram- 
bled eggs in a chafing dish and serves with 
them a rich truffled sauce called sauce Per- 
igord. It is a delightful late supper dish ; 
those who can afford it are referred to Mr. 
Murrey's more pretentious works for the recipe 
of the sauce. 

Boiled Eggs.— The chafing dish is just the 
thing for boiling eggs at table in hot 
weather. 

Eggs with Curry.— Sprinkle over six scram- 
bled eggs while they are cooking half a tea- 
spoonful of dry curry powder and serve on toast. 

Eggs with Garlic Oil.— Divide a bulb of 
garlic into cloves, remove the outside husks, 
cut each clove into thin strips lengthwise, put 
them into half a pint bottle and fill the bottle 
with olive oil ; in a week the oil will take on 
the flavor of the garlic and use this oil for 
frying eggs. While cooking keep the cover 
on as the oil spatters. 

Eggs with Kidneys.— Scald three mutton 
kidneys, remove the thin skin over them and 
cut them into thin slices. Put into the chaf- 
ing dish a table-spoonful of beef drippings, 
when hot add a chopped Bermuda onion ; 
when slightly browned add the kidneys, salt 



32 EGGS WITH KIDNEYS. 

and white pepper to taste, cook the kidneys 
three minutes, add four raw eggs and when 
the latter becomes firm, serve. 

Kidneys with Bacon.— Put into the chafing 
dish two table-spoonfuls of chopped bacon. 
When well cooked add three scalded, skinned 
and sliced kidneys, cook four minutes, season 
with a little white pepper, and serve. 

Kidneys and Potatoes.— Wash, peel and 
cut into small dice two medium sized raw 
potatoes. Scald and skin three mutton kid- 
neys, quarter them, chop up sufficient celery 
to make a tea-spoonful. Put into a chafing 
dish a scant table-spoonful of butter ; when 
quite hot, put in the potatoes, stir to prevent 
sticking to the dish, add the celery, then the 
kidneys and half a pint of good rich brown 
gravy. Season with salt and pepper and a 
table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. Cover 
and simmer six minutes and serve. 

Kidneys with Mushrooms.— Scald, skin 
and quarter six lambs" kidneys, cut into thin 
slices the contents of half a can of French 
mushrooms. Put into the chafing dish a 
heaping table-spoonful of butter, a minced 
onion and a very small piece of a bay leaf ; 
when the onion is quite brown add a tea- 
spoonful of browned fiour ; stir into the dish 



CURRIED VEAL CHOPS. ^^ 

a pint of beef broth and a scant tea-spoonful 
of kitchen bouquet ; season with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful^ of white 
pepper, add the kidneys and the mushrooms, 
stir to prevent burning and cook six minutes. 

Curried Veal Chops.— Mix together a heap- 
ing table-spoonful of curry powder, two salt- 
spoonfuls of salt, a tea-spoonful of " made " 
mustard, a dash of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of 
epicurean sauce, and olive oil enough to make 
a paste ; spread a little of this on both sides 
of the chops, then dip in beaten egg, roll in 
bread crumbs and fry in the chafing dish. 

Veal Tomato Sauce.— Cut into neat slices 
a small quantity of cold roast veal. Put into 
the chafing dish two table-spoonfuls of butter, 
three table-spoonfuls of pompodoro — Italian 
tomato paste — and a pint of veal broth, salt 
and cayenne to taste. When smooth add the 
meat and serve when quite hot. 

Curry of Sweetbreads.— Select two fine 
sweetbreads, scald them and remove from 
them all sinews, etc. Put them into water 
slightly salted, cover and parboil half an hour ; 
drain, and keep in cold water till wanted. 
Prepare a plain curry sauce in the chafing dish ; 
slice the sweetbreads, conk them in the sauce 
ten minutes and serve. 



34 CALF S LIVER WITH BACON. 

Cairs Liver with Bacon.— Cut three small 
thin slices of bacon into inch pieces and cook 
them well done in a chafing dish, add to the 
dish one and one half more calf's liver sliced 
quite thin. Cook until the liver begins to curl 
up on the sides. 

Calfs Liver with G-ravy.— Prepare in the 
chafing dish a brown gravy, similar to, (in- 
structions for Kidneys with Mushrooms) and 
in this sauce simmer three thin slices of calf's 
liver. 

Boast Beef for Breakfast or Luncheon.— 
Put into the chafing dish a table-spoonful of 
beef drippings ; when hot, add a medium sized 
red onion, chopped fine, two whole cloves, 
four pepper corns, broken, two allspice, the 
smallest bit of bay leaf, a sprig each of green 
parsley and celery. When the onion is quite 
brown, add a pint and a half of hot water, or 
better still beef broth. Simmer six minutes, 
add salt and cayenne. Dissolve a heaping 
table-spoonful of flour in a gill of cold water ; 
rub it smooth, add a few spoonfuls of the hot 
sauce to the flour, then pour it into the 
dish, stir well and add half a tea-spoonful of 
kitchen boquet ; in this warm up cold roast 
beef. 

Steak Rechauffe, — Divide into small balls 



TRIPE. 35 

four ounces of butter, dredge these with flour. 
Put one fourth of them into a chafing dish 
and over the hot water dish ; as it melts whisk 
it rapidly and add a pint of hot water, whisk 
rapidly and gradually add one fourth more of 
the butter balls, repeat this process until the 
butter is all used. Let the sauce cool a little, 
season with sauce and white pepper. Bruise 
all over a piece of cold broiled sirloin steak 
the juice of three cloves of garlic ; now return 
to the sauce, and add to it while off the flame, 
the yolks of two raw eggs, if too hot the eggs 
will separate ; in this sauce warm up the steak. 

Tripe.— Select the double tripe if possible ; 
boil a pound of it an hour and a half. When 
wanted warm it up in a sauce made as per rec- 
ipe for cold steak. 

Curried Tripe.— Rinse off a pound of fresh 
tripe in scalding hot water, drain it, cut it into 
conveniently sized pieces, and boil them in 
water slightly salted, an hour and a half, then 
add the tripe to a plain curry sauce made m 
the chafing dish and serve with boiled rice. 

Curried Tripe and Onions.— Cut into slices 
three Bermuda or white onions. Fry in the 
chafing dish a delicate brown, with three 
table-spoonfuls of olive oil ; strew over the 
onion a tea-spoonful of curry-powder, add half 



36 CHOPS AND CUTLETS. 

a pound of cold boiled tripe, cover the dish, 
and shake the pan to prevent burning; when 
the onion is cooked, serve. 

Chops and Cutlets.— It is really surprising 
how quickly and how ver)' perfect chops, steaks 
and cutlets of all kinds can be cooked in a 
chafing dish at table. The dish must invaria- 
bly be kept covered to prevent the hot fat 
from jumping out. I have cooked chops per- 
fectly in from four to seven minutes, the varia- 
tion in time depending upon the thickness of 
the meat. 

Pig's Feet.— It is more convenient and more 
economical to buy pig's feet already boiled, 
split them in two and saute in the chafing dish. 
Care must be exercised to use sufficient fat 
to prevent sticking to the dish. 

Potatoes Lyonnaise. — Cut two red onions 
into quarters, then into strips and fry them in 
a chafing dish with either butter or beef drip- 
pings. Cut up into small slices five medium 
sized new potatoes — boiled — and cook them 
well with the onion. 

Potatoes a I'Ete.— Peel and slice two raw 
new potatoes. Put into the chafing dish a 
heaping table-spoonful of beef dripping. When 
quite hot lay in the slices of potato ; when a 
delicate brown on one side turn each piece. 



POTATO DICE. 



37 



Potato Dice.— Cut raw potatoes into dice 
and cook them well in the chafing dish. Time 
for three potatoes ten minutes, stir to prevent 
burning. 

Mushrooms. — Remove all grit and peel a 
dozen freshly gathered mushrooms, remove 
the stems ; melt a tea-spoonful of butter in the 
chafing dish and before it gets too hot lift the 
dish off and put it on a plate. Cover the bot- 
tom of the dish with mushrooms ; on top of 
each mushroom put a bit of butter the size of 
a marble ; season each with a little salt and 
pepper. Return the dish to the flame, and 
cook three minutes. 

PuflP-balls.— At certain seasons puff-balls 
are found in profusion in the fields and pas- 
tures. What surprises me is that so few peo- 
ple know that they are a most delightful, 
nutritious and wholesome fungi. They should 
be gathered when the inside is of a creamy 
white ; when touched with a streak of yellow, 
or are spongy they are too old. Peel them, 
cut them into thin slices and fry them in the 
chafing dish plain. They may be also stewed 
in the chafing dish. 

Green Peas.— When green peas become dry 
and old they require considerable cooking 
but when fresh and a beautiful green they re- 



38 CANNED PEAS. 

quire but little cooking and this little is best 
accomplished in a chafing dish. After remov- 
ing them from the pods, put them in the chaf- 
ing dish. To a quart of peas add water 
enough to cover the bottom of the pan, say a 
little less than a pint ; the steam arising from 
the water cooks the peas and the heat from 
the alcohol flame is so intense that the peas 
are cooked so quickly they retain their delicate 
green color. Season with salt, white pepper, 
and be liberal with the best butter. 

Canned Peas. — Open the can, rinse off the 
peas with cold water, then simply warm them in 
the chafing dish ; longer cooking spoils them. 

Chicken Gallosch.— Cut into dice two me- 
dium sized raw potatoes. Put into the chafing 
dish a table-spoonful of olive oil ; when hot 
add the potato, stir to prevent burning, and 
after five minutes cooking add, half a tea- 
spoonful of paprika, half a pint of hot water, 
a clove of garlic, half a pound of cold roast 
chicken cut into dice, half a salt-spoonful of 
salt; stir occasionally, cover w^hile cooking 
and when the potatoes are done serve. 

Beef Gallosch.— Proceed as in the foregoing 
recipe, using half an onion instead of the clove 
of garlic, and flank steak cut small instead of 
chicken ; but it should be raw meat. 



PORK TENDERLOIN. 39 

Pork Tenderloin. — Fry an onion slightly 
in the chafing dish, with a table-spoonful of 
butter ; cut into dice a small pork tender- 
loin, add it to the dish and cook it thoroughly ; 
now add half a pint of gravy or brolh, salt and 
cayenne to taste and two warm, boiled new 
potatoes cut into dice, cover and serve with a 
cucumber salad for breakfast or luncheon. 

The Mysteries of Welsh Rabbits.— Every- 
body who has tasted a rightly composed Welsh 
rabbit likes it, but not every one dares to re- 
peat the indulgence because of the difficulty 
some people have of digesting it. 

I have discovered a simple method of mak- 
ing the dish digestible, and first made my dis- 
covery known through the culinary column of 
the New York Herald, 

The secret is to add paprika to the cheese. 

It may surprise the lover of Welsh rabbits 
to learn that by the addition of this simple 
condiment its indigestibility is overcome. 

The formula for making the digestible Welsh 
rabbit is as follows : — 

For a party of four grate a pound of what is 
known as " full cream American cheese ; " put 
into the chafing dish a " walnut " of butter ; as 
it melts stir it with a wooden spoon to grease 
the bottom of the dish, then add the grated 



40 VIRTUES OF PAPRIKA. 

cheese. As the cheese melts, stir it, and add 
a table-spoonful of old American or imported 
ale. It will now begin to stick to the dish ; to 
prevent this, stir and gradually add spoonfuls 
of ale until the mixture is smooth and velvety 
in appearance. Stir into the cheese a table- 
spoonful of paprika ; mix well, and when of a 
creamy consistency put spoonfuls of it on hot, 
dry toast. 

Hot plates are absolutely necessary. 

The amount of ale required varies according 
to the quality of the cheese, but about one and 
a half gills of ale is all that is required ; should 
this amount thin out the cheese too much, the 
mixture must be rapidly stirred to evaporate 
the unnecessary moisture. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 730 6 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



Go ogle 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non- commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 



Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : / /books . google . com/ 




WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 
Transferred from 
HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 
1960 




^arbart College lllirars 

RECEIVED BY BEQUEST 
dt SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 J» 



THE 

MURREY COLLECTION 

OF 

CooKERY Books 



1!Y 

THOMAS J. MURREY 

THE WELL KNOWN NEW YORK Cl'LINARY AUTHORITY. FRO- 
PRirroK OP THR KIISTAITRANT IIOI'SE OF RFPKF.SENTA- 
nVES, WASHINGTON, D. C. AUTHOR OF " SALADS 
AND SArCES," ETC. 




NEW YORK 
FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY 
PUBLISHERS 



HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST OF 
MRS. CHESTER N. GREEN0U6H 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 



Copyright, 1884, 1885, 1886 & 1887, 
By white, stokes & ALLEN. 

Copyright, 1887, 
By FREDERICK A. STOKES. 

Copyright, 1888, 
By FREDERICK A. STOKES & BROTHER. 



By FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY. 



Copyright, 1891 & 1895, 




tJ 



CONTENTS 

FIFTY SOUPS 
FIFTY SALADS 
BREAKFAST DAINTIES 
PUDDINGS AND DAINTY DESSERTS 
THE BOOK OF ENTRIES 
COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 
PRACTICAL CARVING 

LUNCHEON 
OYSTERS AND FISH 
THE CHAFING DISH 



I 



! 



1 



FIFTY SOUPS 



CONTENTS. 



Remarks on Soups 7 

Artichoke Soup, 12 

Asparagus Soup, 12 

Barley Soup, 12 

Beans, Puree of, 35 

Beef Stock, 9 

Beef Tea, 13 

Bouille- Abaisse, 15 

Cauliflower Soup, 16 

Celery, Cream of, 20 

Chestnut Soup, 16 

Chicken Broth, 17 

Chicken Soup, 17 

Chicken Soup, no. 2, 18 

Clam Broth, . . . , 18 

Clam Chowder, 19 

Clam, Puree of, 35 

Consomme, 20 

Consomme Colbert, 20 

Crab, Bisque of, 13 



4 contents. 

Cream Soup, 21 

Croutons for Soup 11 

Fish Chowder, 22 

German Soup, 23 

Giblet Soup, 23 

Glaze for Soup, 11 

Green Turtle Soup, 23 

Gumbo Soup, 26 

Julienne Soup, ^ . . , 26 

Lentil Soup, , . . , 27 

Liebig's Soup, 27 

Lobster, Bisque of, 14 

Macaroni Soup, 27 

Marrow Dumplings, 11 

Mock Turtle Soup, 38 

Mulligatawny Soup 29 

Mutton Broth, 29 

Onion Soup, ....*...-.. 30 

Oxtail Soup 30 

Oyster Soup, 31 

Pea Soup, '3i 

Pea Soup, Economical, ...... 32 

Potato Soup, 35 

Rabbit Soup 34 

Rice, Cream of, 21 

Scotch Broth, 35 

Soup Stock, 8 

Sorrel Soup, 35 



contents. 5 

Spring Soup, 36 

Tomato Soup, 36 

Turkey Soup, 37 

Veal Stock, 10 

Vegetable Soup, 37 

Vermicelli Soup, 37 



REMARKS ON SOUPS. 



Soups, like salads, present an excellent oppor- 
tunity for the cook to display good taste and 
judgment. 

The great difficulty lies in selecting the 
most appropriate soup for each particular occa- 
sion ; it would be well to first select your bill 
of fare, after which decide upon the soup. 

The season, and force of circumstances, may 
compel you to decide upon a heavy fish, such 
as salmon, trout, or other oleaginous fishes, 
and heavy joints and entries. 

Under these circumstances it must neces- 
sarily follow that a light soup should begin the 
dinner, and vice rersa ; for large parties, one 
light and one heavy soup is always in order. 

There is as much art in arranging a bill of 
fare and harmonizing the peculiarities of the 
various dishes, as there is in preparing the 
colors for a painting ; the soup represents the 
pivot upon which harmony depends. 



8 



SOUP STOCK. 



Soups may be divided into four classes : 
clear, thick, purges or bisques, and chowders. 
A puree is made by rubbing the cooked ingredi* 
ents through a fine sieve ; an ordinary thick 
soup is made by adding various thickening in- 
gredients to the soup stock ; clear soups are, 
properly speaking, the juices of meats, served 
in a convenient and appetizing form. 

Chowders are quite distinct from the fore- 
going, being compounds of an infinite variety 
of fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetables, in proportions 
to suit the fluctuating ideas of the cook ; the 
object sought is to prepare a thick, highly 
seasoned compound, without reducing the in- 
gredients to the consistency of a pur^e. 



Soup Stock.— The word stock when used 
in cooking means the foundation or basis upon 
which soups and sauces depend ; it is therefore 
the most important part ol soup making. 
Care should be excercised that nothing in the 
least tainted or decayed enters the stock pot ; 
it is very desirable that soup stock be prepared 
a day or two before it is wanted ; the season- 
ing should be added in moderation at first, 
as it is difficult to restore a soup that has been 
damaged by over seasoning. 

Milk or cream should be boiled and strained, 



BEEF STCXTK. 



9 



and added hot when intended for soups ; when 
eggs are used beat them thoroughly, and add 
while the soup is hot. Should they be added 
when the soup is boiling, they are very apt to 
separate, and give the soup the appearance of 
having curdled ; the best plan is to beat up 
the egg with a little of the warm soup, then 
add it to the soup gradually. 

In summer, soup stock should be boiled 
from day to day, if kept any length of time, 
else it may become sour : should this happen, 
add a piece of charcoal to the soup, boil, cool, 
and strain into freshly scalded earthen or 
porclain-lined ware. On no account allow the 
soup stock to become cold in an iron pot or 
saucepan. 

To make Beef Stock.— Take six pounds 
of soup meat, cut it up into good sized pieces, 
break the bones into small pieces, place them 
in the stock pot, and add five quarts of cold 
water and two ounces of salt ; boil slowly for five 
hours, remove the scum as fast as it rises ; cut 
up three white turnips and three carrots, add 
these to the soup with two stalks of celery, one 
large onion quartered, six cloves, teaspoonful 
of whole peppers, and a small bunch of herbs. 

When the vegetables are thoroughly cooked, 
strain the soup into a large saucepan, and set 



lO 



VEAL STOCK. 



it on back of range to keep hot, but not to boil, 
cut one pound of lean raw beef into fine pieces, 
put in into a saucepan, and add the whites and 
shells of four eggs ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a little chopped parsley or celery tops ; 
squeeze these together with your hand for 
fifteen minutes, until they are thoroughly in^ 
corporated, then add to the warm soup ; allow 
the soup to simmer slowly one hour ; taste for 
seasoning ; strain into crocks, or serve. This is 
now called consomm^ or bouillon, and is the 
basis of nearly all soups ; such items as ma- 
caroni, sago, Italian paste, Macedoine, and, in 
fact, nearly all kinds of cereals and soup in- 
gredients may be added to this stock at differ- 
ent times to produce variety ; they should all 
be boiled separately before adding to the soup. 

Calf's feet and knuckle of veal may be added 
to the original or first pot if a very strong stock 
is required. 

Veal Stock. — Chop up three slices of bacon 
and two pounds of the neck of veal ; place in 
a stewpan with a pint of water or beef stock, 
and simmer for half an hour ; then add two quarts 
of stock, one onion, a carrot, a bouquet of 
herbs, four stalks of celery, half a teaspoonful 
of bruised whole peppers, and a pinch of nut- 
meg with a teaspoonful of salt ; boil gently for 



CROl'TONS, 



two hours, removing the scum in the mean- 
time. Strain into an earthen crock, and when 
cold remove the fat. A few bones of poultry 
added, with an additional quantity of water or 
stock, will improve it. 

Croutons, or fried bread crumbs for soups, 
are prepared in this way : — Cut slices of stale 
home-made bread half an inch thick, trim off 
all crust and cut each slice into squares ; fry 
these in very hot fat ; drain them on a clean 
napkin, and add six or eight to each portion of 
soup. 

Marrow Dumplinfifs for Soups. — Grate 
the crust of a breakfast roll, and break the 
remainder into crumbs ; soak these in cold 
milk ; drain, and add two ounces of flour ; chop 
up half a pound of beef marrow freed from 
skin and sinews; beat up the yolks of five 
eggs ; mix all together thoroughly, if too moist 
add some of the grated crumbs; salt and 
pepper to taste ; form into small round dump- 
lings ; boil them in thtf soup for half an hour 
before ser\'ing. 

Glaze. — Glaze is made from rich soup stock, 
boiled down until it forms a dark, strong jelly. 
It is used in coloring soups and sauces and for 
glazing entries. It should be kept in a stono 
crock. 



12 



ARTICHOKE SOUP. 



Artichoke Soup. — Melt a piece of butter 
the size of an egg in a saucepan ; then fry in it 
one white turnip sliced, one reel onion sliced, 
three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes washed, 
pared, and sliced, and a rasher of bacon. Stir 
these in the boiling butter for about ten minutes, 
add gradually one pint of stock. Let all boil to- 
gether until the vegetables are thoroughly 
cooked, then add three pints more of stock ; 
stir it well ; add pepper and salt to taste, strain 
and press the vegetables through a sieve, and 
add one pint of boiling milk. Boil for five min- 
utes more and serve. 

Asparagrus Soup.— Take seventy-five heads 
of asparagus ; cut away the hard, tough 
part, and boil the rest uatil tender. Drain 
them, and throw half into cold water until the 
soup is nearly ready, and press the other half 
through a hair sieve. Stir the pressed aspara- 
gus into two pints of stock, and let it boil ; add 
salt, pepper, and a small lump of sugar. Cut 
the remaining heads of asparagus into peas ; 
put them into the soup, and in a few minutes 
serve. If necessary color with a little spinach 
green. 

Barley Soup. — Put into a stock pot a 
knuckle of veal and two pounds of shoulder of 
mutton chopped up ; cover with one gallon of 



REEF TEA. 



13 



cold water ; season with salt, whole peppers, and 
a blade of mace ; boil for three hours, removing 
the scum as fast as it rises. Wash half a pint 
of barley in cold water, drain and cover it with 
v.illk, and let it stand for half an hour, drain and 
add to the soup ; boil half an hour longer, mod- 
erately ; strain, trim the meat from the bone, 
chop up a little parsley or celery tops) add a 
tablespoonful to the soup and serve. 

Beef Tea. — Take half a pound of lean beef ; 
cut it up into small bits ; let it soak in a pint of 
water for three-quarters of an hour ; then put 
both into a quart champagne bottle with just a 
suspicion of salt. Cork tightly, and wire the 
cork, so as to prevent its popping out. Set the 
bottle in a saucepan full of warm water, boil 
gently for an hour and a half, and strain through 
a napkin. Beef tea, without the iibrine of the 
meat, if administered often to a patient, will tend 
to weaken, instead of strengthening the invalid ; 
always add about a teaspoonful of finely chop- 
ped raw meat to a goblet of the tea, and let it 
stand in the tea for about five minutes before 
serving. 

Bisque of Crabs. — Boil twelve hard-shell 
ciabs for thirty minutes, and drain ; when cold 
break them apart, pick out the meat carefully, 
scrape off all fat adhering to the upper shell 



14 



BISQUE. 



and save these for deviled crabs (an excellent 
recipe for deviled crabs may be found in 
" Salads and Sauces.") 

Set the crab meat aside ; put the under shell 
and the claws in a mortar with half a pound of 
butter and a cupful of cold boiled rice, and 
pound them as smooth as possible ; then put 
this intt) a saucepan, and add a heaping tea- 
spoonful of salt, a bouquet of assorted herbs, a 
dozen whole peppers, a blade of mace, and 
three quarts of stock ; boil slowly for one hour, 
pour it through a sieve, and work as much of 
the pulp through the sieve as possible. Place 
the soup on the range to keep warm, but not to 
boil. 

Beat up the yolk of one egg, and add it 
slowly to a quart of warm milk previously boil- 
ed ; whisk the milk into the soup ; taste for 
seasoning. Now take the crab meat and heat 
it in a little boiling water, drain, put it into a 
hot soup tureen, pour the soup over it and 
serve. 

Bisque of Lobster. — Procure two large 
live lobsters ; chop them up while raw, shells 
and all ; put them into a mortar with three- 
fourths of a pound of butter, three raw eggs, 
and one quarter of a pound of cold boiled rice : 
pound to a paste, moisten with a little water ot 



BOUILLE-AKAISSE. 



15 



Stock, then set aside. Fry out two slices of 
bacon fat, add to it one minced onion, a table- 
spoonful of chopped celery tops, one chopped 
long red pepper, one sliced carrot, and a quart 
of stock, boil and pour the whole into a sauce- 
pan. Add the lobster and three pints more of 
stock ; boil slowly for two hours ; strain, and rub 
the ingredients through a sieve. Return to 
the soup ; keep it warm, but do not allow it to 
boil. If too thick, add a little more stock ; 
add salt to taste. Boil one quart of cream ; 
whisk it into the soup ; taste again for season- 
ing ; pour it into a hot soup tureen, and send 
to table. 

This soup can be prepared by following 
receipt for bisque of crab, or it may be pre- 
pared by adding boiled lobster to a strong veal 
stock, and colored red by pounding the coral 
with butter, and adding this to the soup. 

Bouille-abaisse. — Take six pounds of cod- 
fish ; cut it up into small pieces ; chop two red 
onions ; put them in a stewpan with an ounce 
of butter; let them brown without burning. 
Now add the fish and four tablespoonfuls of 
fine olive-oil, a bruised clove of garlic, two bay 
leaves, four slices of lemon peeled and quar- 
tered, half a pint of Shrewsbury tomato catsup, 
and half a salt-spoonful of saffron. Add sut 



A 



1 6 CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

ficient hot soup stock to cover the whole ; boil 
slowly for half to three-quarters of an hour ; skim 
carefully while boiling; when ready to serve 
add a tablespoonful of chopped celery tops. 

Cauliflower Soup. — Fry half an onion in a 
very little butter ; when it is a light brown add 
a tablespoonful of minced raw ham and two or 
three stalks of celery, then add a quart of soup 
stock ; simmer slowly for half an hour. Boll 
for twenty-five or thirty minutes one medium- 
sized head of cauliflower in water slightly 
salted. Strain the contents of the frying-pan 
into a saucepan, and add one quart more of 
stock. Drain the cauliflower ; rub it throngh a 
fine sieve into the stock ; boil just once ; draw 
to one side of the fire ; taste for seasoning. 
Now dissolve a teaspoonful of rice flour in half 
a cupful of cold milk ; whisk the soup thor- 
oughly ; pour into a hot tureen, and serve. 

Chestnut Soup. — Remove the outer peel or 
coating from twenty-five Italian chestnuts ; 
pour scalding water over them, and rub off 
the inner coating. Put them into a saucepan 
with one quart of soup stock, and boil for three- 
quarters of an hours ; drain ; rub them through 
a colander, then through a sieve, with one 
tablespoonful of cracker dust, or pound to 
a paste in a mortar ; season with salt and pep^ 



CHICKEN BROTH FOR THE INVALID. 1 7 

per; add gradually the stock in which they 
were boiled ; add one pint more of stock ; boil 
once, and draw to one side of the fire. 

Beat up the yolks of two raw eggs; add 
them to one quart of warm milk ; whisk the 
milk into the soup ; taste for seasoning ; pour 
into a hot tureen, and send to table with 
croutons. 

Chicken Broth for the Invalid.— Procure 
a dry-picked Philadelphia roasting chicken ; 
cut it in halves ; put one half in the ice box ; 
chop the other half into neat pieces ; put it in- 
to a small saucepan ; add one quart of cold 
water, a little salt and a leaf of celery ; simmer 
gently for two hours ; remove the oily particles 
thoroughly ; strain the broth into a bowl ; when 
cooled a little, serve to the convalescent. Serve 
the meat with the broth. 

Chicken Soup.— Take three young male 
chickens; cut them up ; put them in a sauce- 
pan with three quarts of veal stock. (A sliced 
carrot, one turnip, and one head of celery may 
be put with them and removed before the soup 
is thickened.) Let them simmer for an hour. 
Remove all the white flesh ; return the rest of 
the birds to the soup, and boil gently for two 
hours. Pour a little of the liquid over a quar- 
ter of a pound of bread crumbs, and when 



l8 CHICKEN SOUP, NO. 2. 

they are well soaked put it in a mortar with the 
white flesh of the birds, and pound the whole 
to a smooth paste: add a pinch of ground 
mace, salt, and a little cayenne pepper ; press 
the mixture through a sieve, and boil once 
more, adding a pint of boiling cream : thicken 
with a little flour mixed in cold milk ; remove 
the bones, and serve. 

Chicken Soup, No. 2.— Cut up one chick- 
en, put into a stewpan two quarts of cold 
water, a teaspoonful of salt, and one pod of 
red pepper ; when half done add two desert 
spoonfuls of well washed rice : when thorough- 
ly cooked, remove the bird from the soup, tear 
a part of the breast into shreds (saving the re- 
mainder of the fowl for a salad), and add it to 
the soup with a wine-glass full of cream. 

Clam Broth.— Procure three dozen little- 
neck clams in the shell ; wash them well in cold 
water ; put them in a sauceoan, cover with a 
quart of hot water ; boil fiftc -n minutes ; drain ; 
remove the shells ; chop up the clams, and add 
them to the hot broth vf\t\ a pat of butter; 
salt if necessary and add a little cayenne; 
boil ten minutes, pour into a soup tureen, 
add a slice of toast, and send to table. This 
is the mode adopted when we do not have a 
clam opener in the house. 



CLAM CHOWDER. 



>9 



Raw, freshly opened clams should he choi> 
ped fine and prepared in the manner above 
described. The large clams are better for 
chowders than for stews and broth. 

01am Chowder.— Chop up fifty large clams ; 
cut eight medium-sized potatoes into small 
square pieces, and keep them in cold water un- 
til wanted. 

Chop one large, red onion fine, and cut up 
half a pound of larding pork into small pieces. 

Procure an iron pot, and see that it is very 
clean and free from rust ; set it on the range, 
and when very hot, throw the pieces of pork 
into it, fry them brown ; next add the onion, 
and fry it brown ; add one fourth of the chop- 
ped clams, then one fourth of the chopped po- 
tato, and two pilot crackers quartered, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one chopped, long, red pepper, 
a teaspoonful of powdered thyme and half a 
pint of canned tomato pulp. Repeat this 
process until the clams and potato are used, 
omitting the seasoning ; add hot water enough 
to cover all, simmer slowly three hours. 
Should it become too thick, add more hot water ; 
occasionally remove the pot from the range, 
take hold of the handle, and twist the pot round 
several times ; this is done to prevent the chow- 
der from burning. On no account disturb the 



CONSOMMfi. 



chowder with a spoon or ladle until done ; no\¥ 
taste for seasoning, as it is much easier to sea- 
son properly after the chowder is cooked than 
before. A few celery tops may be added if 
desired. 

Consomm^. — This is nothing more than 
beef stock, with a little more attention given 
to clarifying it. It is always acceptable if the 
dinner to follow is composed of heavy joints 
and side dishes. If the party consists of more 
than twenty, serve one thick soup and one 
light soup or consomm^. 

Consomme Colbert.— Prepare a strong 
consomme; add to two quarts of it a table- 
spoonful each of shredded young turnips and 
carrots and a tablespoonful of green peas ; 
simmer until the vegetables are tender ; taste 
for seasoning. 

Poach four eggs in hot water in the usual 
manner ; send these to table with the soup. 
In serving add one poached egg to each plate. 
It is well always to poach two extra eggs to be 
used should any of the others be broken in the 
service. 

Cream of Celery. — Cut up six stalks of 
celery into half-inch pieces ; put them into a 
saucepan with one red onion quartered, one 
blade of mace, salt, and a few whole peppers ; 



CREAKf OP RICE. 



21 



add a quart of veal stock, and boil for one hour. 
Rub the ingredients through a sieve ; put the 
pulp into a saucepan, and add one quart more 
of veal stock ; boil ; then draw to one side of 
fire to keep hot. 

Boil three pints of cream ; strain it into the 
soup ; whisk the soup at the same time (if not 
thick enough to suit your taste add a little 
flour) ; taste for seasoning; pour it into a hot 
tureen ; serve with small pieces of toast or crou- 
tons. 

Cream of Rice.— Wash thoroughly a half 
pound of rice ; pick out all imperfect or col- 
ored grains ; put it into a saucepan and add 
two quarts of stock. Boil slowly for one hour ; 
then rub the rice through a sieve twice ; re- 
turn it to the stock ; season with salt and 
pepper. Care must be exercised that the rice 
does not adhere to the bottom of the saucepan. 
Simmer until wanted. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs ; add them slowly to a quart of warm 
milk previously boiled; whisk the milk into 
the soup, which must not be very hot ; then 
pour it into a hot tureen, and serve. 

Cream Soup. — Prepare two quarts of strong 
veal stock ; set it on the back part of the range 
to simmer. 

Boil one quart of cream ; whisk it into the 



12 



FISH CHOWDER. 



Stock; pour it into a hot tureen, and serve 
with croutons. If convenient the breast of a 
boiled chicken may be added. 

Pish Chowder.— Take two fine, fresh cod- 
fish, weighing six pounds each ; clean them well; 
cut the fish lengthwise from the bone, and cut 
it into pieces two inches square. Chop up the 
bones and heads ; put them into a saucepan ; 
add three quarts of warm water, one red onion 
sliced, heaping teaspoonful of salt, a dozen 
bruised peppercorns, and a few stalks of celery. 
Boil until the fish drops from the bones ; then 
strain into another saucepan. 
' Cut into small squares one peck of small po- 
tatoes and a pound and a half of salt pork ; ar- 
range the fish, pork, and potatoes into mounds ; 
divide each equally into four parts ; add one 
quarter of the fish to the stock, next a quarter 
of the pork, then a quarter of the potato, and 
three pilot crackers, broken into quarters, salt, 
pepper, and a little thyme. Repeat this pro- 
cess until the remaining three quarters of 
pork, fish, and potato, are used ; cover all with 
warm milk; simmer slowly until the fish is 
tender, care being taken that the soup does 
not boil over ; now taste for seasoning, serve 
as neatly as possible. 

The above is the old-fashioned New Eng- 



GERMAN SOUP. 



land fish chowder. Clams may be used instead 
of fish. 

German Soup. — Melt half an ounce of 
fresh butter in a sauce-pan ; when very hot, 
add half an onion, chopped fine, and a teas- 
poonful of caraway seeds. When the onion is 
slightly browned, add three quarts of strong 
veal stock, well seasoned ; simmer gently for 
three quarters of an hour. Prepare some mar. 
row dumplings ; boil them in water, or a por- 
tion of the soup, and serve. 

Giblet Soup* — An economical, and ac the 
same time excellent, soup, is made from the 
legs, neck, heart, wings, and gizzard of all 
kinds of poultry. These odds and ends are 
usually plentiful about the holidays. 

To turn them to account, follow general in- 
structions for chicken soup ; add a little rice, 
and your soup is complete. 

Qreen Turtle Soup.— -Many housewives im- 
agine that green turtle is too expensive, and 
too difficult to prepare for household use, and 
for these reasons it is seldom met with in pri- 
vate families, except in tin cans. Even this is 
not always made from turtle. 

This soup is not any more expensive than 
many other kinds. A small turtle may be pur- 
chased at Fulton market for from ten to twenty 



24 



GREEN TURTLE SOUP. 



cents per pound, and weighing from fifteen to 
forty pounds, the price varying according to 
the law of supply and demand. The only ob- 
jection to small turtles is that they do not con- 
tain a very large percentage of the green fat, 
so highly 'prized by epicures. 

Procure a live turtle, cut off the head, and 
allow it to drain and cool over night ; next 
morning place it on the working table, lay it on 
its back, and make an incision round the inner 
edge of the shell ; then remove it. Now re- 
move the intestines carefully, and be very care- 
ful that you do not break the gall ; throw these 
away ; cut off the fins and all fleshy particles, 
and set them aside ; trim out the fat, which has 
a blueish tint when raw ; wash it well in several 
waters. Chop up the upper and under shells 
with a cleaver ; put them with the fins into a 
large saucepan ; cover them with boiling water ; 
let stand ten minutes ; drain and rub off the 
horny, scaly particles, with a kitchen towel. 

Scald a large saucepan, and put all the meat 
and shell into it (except the fat) ; cover with 
hot water; add a little salt, and boil four 
hours. Skim carefully, and drain ; put the 
meat into a large crock ; remove the bones, 
and boil the fat in the stock. This does not 
take very long if first scalded. When done, 



GREEX TURTLE SOUP. 



add it also to the crock ; pour the stock into 
another crock; let it cool, and remove all 
scum and oily particles ; this is quite work 
enough for one day. Clean the saucepans 
used, and dry them thoroughly. 

Next day fry out half a pound of fat ham 
then add one chopped onion, one bay leaf, six 
cloves, one blade of mace, two tablespoonfuls 
of chopped celery tops, a tablespoonful of salt, 
a teaspoonful of white pepper, and one quart 
of ordinary soup stock. Simmer for half an 
hour. Now put the turtle stock on the fire ; 
when hot strain the seasoning into it ; remove 
the turtle from the other crock, cut it up, anc 
add to the stock; now add a pint of dri, 
sherry. 

Do not let the soup come to a boil ; taste 
for seasoning, and if herbs are needed tie a 
string to a bunch of mixed herbs, throw them 
into the soup, and tie the other end to the 
saucepan handle ; taste often, and when palat- 
able, remove the herbs. If the soup is not 
dark enough, brown a very little flour and add 
to it. Keep the soup quite hot until served ; 
add quartered slices of lemon and the yolk of a 
hard boiled egg, quartered just before serving ; 
send to table with a decanter of sherry. 

The yolks of the eggs may be worked to a 



26 



GUMBO SOUP. 



paste, and made into round balls to imitate 
turtle eggs if this is desired. 

I have placed before my readers this compli- 
cated receipt in as simple a form as it is 
possible to do, having carefully avoided all the 
technical formulas used in the profession. 

Gumbo Soup. — Cut up two chickens, two 
slices of ham, and two onions into dice ; flour 
them, and fry the whole to a light brown ; 
then fill the frying pan with boiling water ; stir 
it a few minutes, and turn the whole into a 
saucepan containing three quarts of boiling 
water. Let it boil for forty minutes, removing 
the scum. 

In the meantime soak three pints of ochra in 
cold water for twenty minutes ; cut them into 
thin slices, and add to the other ingredients ; 
let it boil for one hour and a half. Add a quart 
of canned tomatoes and a cupful of boiled rice 
half an hour before serving. 

Julienne Soup. — Cut into fine shreds, an 
inch long, two carrots, two turnips, two heads 
of celery, and the white ends of two spring 
leeks. Put them into a frying pan, with one 
ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and one 
lump of cut sugar ; simmer until tender, then 
add a cupful of stock. Put two quarts of veal 
stock in a saucepan ; add the vegetables, and 



LENTIL SOUP. 



27 



a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little fresh 
sorrel if convenient (wild wood sorrel is the 
best for julienne) shredded. Taste for season- 
ing ; boil once, and serve. 

Lentil Soup. — Lentils are very nutritious, 
and form the basis of a most excellent soup ; 
but they are little used in American cookery. 
Soak a pint of dry lentils for two hours ; put 
them in a saucepan ; add two quarts of cold 
water, half an onion, two or three celery tops, 
salt, whole peppers, and two or three ounces 
of the small end of a ham. Boil gently for three 
hours; add a little more hot water, if the 
quantity has been reduced by boiling, pour 
through a sieve, remove the ham, onion and 
celery ; rub the lentils through a sieve, return 
to the soup; whisk it thoroughly; taste for 
seasoning, and serve with croutons. 

Liebig's Soup.— An excellent soup may be 
prepared at short notice, as follows: — Take 
half an onion, three or four outer stocks of 
celery, one carrot sliced, salt, pepper, and a 
very little mace. Boil these in two quarts of 
water for half an hour ; strain, and add to the 
water two table-spoonfuls of Liebig's Extract 
of meat ; whisk thoroughly, taste for seasoning, 
and serve. 

Macaroni Soup.— Boil half a pound of 



28 



MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 



Macaroni for half an hour, in three pints of 
water slightly salted ; add a blade of mace. 
When done, drain, and cut it into two inch 
pieces. Put three pints of soup stock into a 
saucepan ; add the macaroni ; taste for season* 
ing, boil a moment and serve. 

Mock Turtle Soup.— Take half a calf's 
head, with the skin on ; remove the brains. 
Wash the head in several waters, and let it 
soak in cold water for an hour. Put it in a 
saucepan with five quarts of beef stock ; let 
it simmer gently for an hour ; remove the scum 
carefully. Take up the head and let it get 
cold ; cut the meat from the bones into pieces 
an inch square, and set them in the ice-box. 

Dissolve two ounces of butter in a frying 
pan ; mince a large onion, and fry it in the 
butter until nicely browned, and add to the 
stock in which the head was cooked. Return 
the bones to the stock ; simmer the soup, re- 
moving the scum until no more rises. Put in a 
carrot, a turnip, a bunch' of parsley, a bouquet 
of herbs, a dozen outer stalks of celery, two 
blades of mace and the rind of one lemon, 
grated ; salt and pepper to taste. Boil gently 
for two hours, and strain the soup through a 
cloth. Mix three ounces of browned fiour 
with a pint of the soup ; let simmer until it thick- 



MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 



29 



ens, then add it to the soup. Take the pieces 
of head out of the ice-box, and add to the soup ; 
let them simmer until quite tender. " Before 
serving add a little Worcestershire sauce, a 
tablespoonful of anchovy paste, a gobletful of 
port or sherry, and two lemons sliced, each 
slice quartered, with the rind trimmed off." 
Warm the wine a very little before adding it to 
the soup. Keep in ice-box three or four days 
before using. Serve the brains as a side dish. 

Mulligatawny Soup. — Divide a large 
chicken into neat pieces; take a knuckle of 
veal, and chop it up ; put all into a large sauce- 
pan, and add one gallon of water ; salt ; boil for 
three hours or until reduced one-third. Put an 
ounce of butter in a hot frying pan, cut up two 
red onions, and fry them in the butter. Into a 
half pint of the stock put two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of curry powder ; add this to the on- 
ion, then add the whole to the soup, now taste 
for seasoning. Some like a little wine, but 
these are the exception and not the rule. Be- 
fore serving add half a slice of lemon to each 
portion. Many prefer a quantity of rice to be 
added to the soup before it is finished ; the rice 
should be first well washed and parboiled. 

Mutton Broth. — Take four pounds of lean 
mutton trimmings ; cut them into neat pieces ; 



so 



ONION SOUP. 



put them into a saucepan ; add three quarts of 
cold water, one heaping teaspoonful of salt. 
Bruise, and add six peppercorns, three or four 
celery tops, and one young leek. Boil slowly for 
two hours ; remove the scum as it rises. Boil 
a cupful of rice for twenty minutes ; add it to 
the soup, and taste for seasoning ; remove the 
celery, leek, and mutton bones ; pour the soup 
into a hot tureen, and serve. 

Substitute a knuckle of veal for mutton, and 
you will have an excellent veal broth. 

Onion Soup. — Peel and cut into small 
pieces three medium-sized onions ; fry them in 
a little butter until tender, but not brown ; 
pour over them a pint of stock ; add a little 
salt and cayenne. Simmer for fifteen minutes ; 
press the soup through a sieve ; put it in a 
saucepan, and add three tablespoonfuls of 
grated bread crumbs, and half a gobletful of 
hot cream. Taste for seasoning, and serve 
with small slices of toast. 

Oxtail Soup. — Take two oxtails ; cut them 
into joints, and cut each joint into four pieces ; 
put them into a pan with two ounces of butter, 
and fry them for ten minutes. Slice two onions, 
one turnip, two carrots, and a dozen outer 
stalks of celery, and fry in the same butter, 
with three slices of bacon cut up fine ; fry to a 



OYSTER SOUP. 



light brown. Turn the ingredients into a 
saucepan with a quart of stock or ham water, 
and boil quickly for half an hour, then add two 
more quarts of stock, a bouquet of herbs, two 
bay-leaves, a dozen whole peppers crushed, a 
few cloves, and salt to taste. Simmer until 
the meat is quite tender; then take it out; 
strain the soup ; skim off the fat, and thicken 
with two ounces of flour. Return the meat to 
the soup ; add a tablespoonful of Worcester- 
shire, and a cupful of sherry, and serve with 
grated rusks. 

Oyster Soup. — Wet a saucepan with cold 
water ; pour into it two quarts of milk. When 
at boiling point, add two dozen oysters and a 
pint of oyster liquor well seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Dissolve a tablespoonful of rice 
flour in a little cold milk ; finally add a large 
tablespoonful of table butter ; do not let the 
soup boil again as it will contract the oysters. 
Pour into a tureen, taste for salting, and serve, 
a few broken crackers may be added. The 
object in wetting the pan is to prevent the milk 
from burning. 

Pea Soup. — Cut two large slices of ham 
into dice, with a sliced onion, and fry them in 
a little bacon fat until they are lightly browned. 
Cut up one turnip, one large carrot, four outef 



32 



PEA SOUP, ECONOMICAL. 



Stalks of celery, and one leek into small pieces^ 
add these last ingredients to the ham and 
onion, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes ; 
then pour over them three quarts of corned- 
beef water or hot water, and add a pint of split 
peas which have been soaked in cold water over 
night. 

Boil gently until the peas are quite tender 
stirring constantly to prevent burning; then 
add salt and pepper to taste, and a teaspoonful 
of brown sugar. Remove the soup from the 
fire, and rub through a sieve ; if it is not thick 
enough to suit your taste, add a few ounces of 
flour mixed smoothly in a little cold milk ; re- 
turn the soup to the fire, and simmer for half 
an hour. Cut up four slices of American bread 
into small dice, and fry the pieces in very hot 
fat until nicely browned ; place them on a nap- 
kin or towel, and add a few to each plate or 
tureen of soup just before it goes to table. 

Pea Soup, Economical. — Boil for four 
hours two quarts of green pea hulls in four 
quarts of water, in which beef, mutton, or fowl 
has been boiled, then add a bunch or bouquet 
of herbs, salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of 
butter, and a quart of milk. Rub through a 
hair sieve, thicken with a little flour, and serve 
with croutons, as in the foregoing receipt. 



POTATO SOUP. 



3i 



Potato Soup. — Wash and peel two dozen 
small sized potatoes ; put them into a saucepan 
with two onions ; add three quarts of corned- 
beef water; boil for one hour and a half until 
the potatoes fall to pieces. Pour the soup 
through a sieve, and rub the potato through it 
to a fine pulp ; put the whole into the saucepan 
again ; when very hot add a pint of hot rich 
cream, salt and pepper, if necessary; whisk 
thoroughly ; pour into a tureen, add croutons, 
and serve. 

Pur^e of Beans.— Soak two quarts of small, 
white beans over night; change the water 
twice ; drain, put them into a pot or saucepan, 
and cover them with cold water. Boil slowly 
for six hours ; as the water evaporates, add hot 
water. One hour before the beans are cooked 
add one pound of salt pork, a bunch of fresh 
herbs, half a dozen whole cloves, salt if neces- 
sary ; when done pour the soup through a sieve> 
remove the pork and seasoning, and rub the 
soup through a sieve ; add the pulp to the 
stock ; taste for seasoning ; pour the soup into 
a tureen, add croutons and serve. Many prefer 
a ham bone to pork. 

Pur^e of Clams.—Chop twenty-five large 
hard-shell clams, very fine, and put them aside ; 
fry half a chopped red onion in an ounca o' 



34 



llABBlT soul*. 



hot butter ; add a teaspoonful of chopped celery 
tops, a blade of mace, one salted anchovy, six 
whole peppers, and a pint of soup stock. Let 
it boil ; then strain into a saucepan ; add the 
chopped clams and one quart of stock or hot 
water. Boil slowly one hour; strain all the 
clams through a sieve twice, and return to the 
stock; season with salt and cayenne. Keep 
the soup warm, but do not let it boil again ; 
taste for seasoning. Boil one pint of cream in 
a saucepan previously wet with cold water; 
strain it, and add to the soup slowly. Mix a 
teaspoonful of rice flour in a little cold milk ; 
add to the soup ; whisk the soup ; taste again 
for seasoning ; pour it into a hot tureen, and 
serve. 

Rabbit Soup. — Cut up two jack rabbits in- 
to neat pieces ; put them into a stewpan con- 
taining one quarter of a pound of melted but- 
ter ; add a slice of fat bacon cut into small 
pieces. Fry for five minutes in the butter ^ 
slice two small carrots, and two red onions, 
and add to the saucepan with one bay leaf, 
one blade of mace, four cloves, a few green 
celery stalks, one ounce of salt, and one long 
red pepper. 

Pour over all, one gallon of stock ; simmer 
gently for nearly three hours ; skim carefully ; 



SCOTCH BROTH. 



35 



Strain into a saucepan, and set on back of 
range to keep hot, but not to boil. Add half 
a pint of dry sherry, and serve with croutons. 
If not dark enough add a little glaze. 

Scotch Broth. — Take two pounds of mutton 
trimmings ; cut into neat pieces ; put into a 
saucepan with three quarts of water, one large 
red onion, salt, and a dozen whole peppers. 
Boil gently, and remove the scum as it rises ; 
wash half a pint of barley ; soak it while the 
soup is boiling, and add it at the end of the 
first hour. Let the soup boil for two hours 
longer ; taste for seasoning ; pour slowly into a 
soup tureen, leaving the meat in the saucepan. 
Some prefer to take the meat out of the soup, 
and after removing the bones they return the 
meat to the soup. 

Sorrel Soup.— Sorrel is an excellent ingre- 
dient for soup. Its acid leaves are much ap- 
preciated by the French ; the wild sorrel may 
be used, but now that truck gardeners are culti- 
vating it extensively, it will be found less 
troublesome to use the latter. 

The Germans make the best sorrel soup; 
their recipe is as follows : — Wash and pick 
over two quarts of sorrel ; remove the stems ; 
then cut the sorrel into pieces. Heat two 
ounces of butter in a small saucepan ; add the 



36 



SPRING SOUP. 



sorrel and a few blades of chives ; cover with- 
out water and allow it to steam for half an 
hour. Stir to prevent burning ; sprinkle over 
this a tablespoonful of flour free from lumps. 
Now add three quarts of well-seasoned veal 
stock ; taste for seasoning ; boil once, and send 
to table with croutons or small bits of toast. 
This an excellent spring and summer soup. 

Spring Soup.— Take two quarts of nicely 
seasoned veal stock ; place it on the range to 
keep hot, but not to boil. Cut into neat strips 
four young carrots, four young spring turnips, 
and two spring leeks ; add them to the stock. 
Now add half a pint of fresh green peas ; boil 
gently for fifteen minutes ; taste for seasoning, 
and serve. 

Tomato Soup.— Cut four ounces of ham 
into dice ; slice two onions, and fry with ham 
in two ounces of butter ; when browned turn 
them into a saucepan containing three quarts 
of stock or corned-beef water, and add three 
carrots, two turnips, and one long red pepper, 
and a dozen outer stalks of celery. Simmer 
gently for one hour; then add a quart of 
canned tomatoes ; boil gently for another hour ; 
rub the whole through a sieve, and simmer 
again with the liquor a few minutes ; add salt, 
and serve with fried bread crumbs. 



TURKEY SOUP. 



37 



Turkey Soup. — ^Take the remains of a 
cold roast turkey, trim off all the meat, break 
up the bones, and put them into a saucepan ; 
cover them with two quarts of veal stock ; salt 
and cayenne to taste. Boil gently for one 
hour ; strain and skim. Now add the flesh of 
the turkey ; simmer gently ; dissolve a table- 
spoonful of rice flour in a little cold milk, and 
add it to the soup. Let it come to a boil ; 
taste for seasoning, and serve with croutons. 

Vegetable Soup. — ^Wash and clean two 
carrots and two turnips ; cut them into slices, 
and cut each slice into small narrow strips; 
put them into a saucepan with four stalks of 
celery cut into inch pieces, a dozen button 
onions, one long red pepper, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt; add three quarts of soup stock; 
boil until the vegetables are tender, add a 
lump of sugar, and serve. The carrots and 
turnips may be cut into fancy shapes with a 
vegetable cutter. 

Vermicelli Soup.— Take one quarter of a 
pound of vermicelli ; break it into pieces, and 
boil it for five minutes ; drain and add it to three 
pints of strong soup stock. Boil once ; draw 
to one side, and simmer gently for twenty min- 
utes. Should any scum arise, remove it ; taste 
for seasoning, and send to table with a little 
Parmesan cheese. 



i t 



FIFTY SALADS 



CONTENTS. 



Remarks on Salads, . n . . • • 7 

Borage for Salads, 8 

Plain Salad Dressing 9 

Mayonnaise, 10 

Anchovy Salad, 10 

Asparagus Salad, 10 

Beans, Lima, Salad of, 11 

Beef Salad, 11 

Beet Leaves Salap, 12 

Bloater, Yarmouth, Salad of, ... 12 

Breakfast Salad, 12 

Brussels-Sprouts Salad, 13 

Carrot Salad, 13 

Cauliflower Salad, 13 

Celeriac Salad, 14 

Celery Salad, 14 

Cherry Salad, 15 

Chicory Salad, 15 

Chicken Salad, 15 



4 



CONTENTS. 



CopFiSH (Salt) Salad, 17 

Corn Salad, or Fetticus, . . . . .17 

Crab Salad, 17 

Cray-fish Salad, 18 

Cress Salad, . .... 18 

Cucumber Salad, 19 

Currant Salad, 19 

Dandelion Salad, 19 

Dumas Salad, 20 

Eels, Mayonnaise of ^ 20 

Egg Salad, 21 

Endive Salad, 21 

EscAROLE Salad, 21 

Frog Salad, 22 

Herbs for Salads, 22 

Herring Salad, . . . * 23 

Hop Salad, 23 

Italian Salad, 24 

Lamb Salad, 24 

Lettuce Salad, 25 

Lobster Salad, 25 

Melon Salad, 26 

Mint Salad, 26 

Orange Salads, 26 

Oyster Salad, 27 



Pioeon Sa.lap, 27 



contents. 5 

Pineapple Salad, 27 

Potato Salad, 28 

Prawn Salad, 28 

Rabbit Salad, .... .... 29 

Salmon Sala ds>. ... 29 

Sardine Salad, 30 

Scollop Salad, 30 

Tomato Salad, 31 

E. C/s Salad Dressing, 31 

S. F.'s Shrimp Salad, 32 



REMARKS ON SALADS. 



Of the many varieties of food daily con- 
sumed, none are more important than a 
salad, rightly compounded. And there is 
nothing more exasperating than an inferior 
one. The salad is the Prince of the Menu, 
and although a dinner be perfect in every 
other detail except the salad, the affair will 
be voted a failure if that be poor. It is 
therefore necessary for those contemplating 
dinner-giving, to personally overlook the 
preparation of the salad if they wish favor- 
able criticism. 

To become a perfect salad-maker, do not 
attempt too much at first ; practise on plain 
salads and plain dressings before you try 
combination salads, fancy dressings, and elab- 
orate garnishings, and you will soon become 
proficient in the art. Do not prepare plain 
salads until the moment they are wanted at 
table. Should they be mixed long before 



8 



BORAGE FOR SALADS. 



they are served, you will find the lettuce 
flabby and the dressing watery and insipid. 

The importance of using none but the 
purest condiments must not be overlooked, 
for a perfect salad cannot be made with in- 
ferior ingredients. Garnishing or decorat- 
ing salads presents an opportunity for dis- 
playing artistic taste and judgment. The 
most deliciously blended salad will not be 
appreciated unless it is attractive in appear- 
ance. No exact rule can be laid down for 
garnishing ; much depends on the judgment 
and good taste of the salad maker. Original 
ideas are commendable. Wild flowers neat- 
ly arranged with alternate tufts of green 
are very pretty during warm weather. Dur- 
ing cold weather garnish with pretty de- 
signs cut from beets, turnips, radishes, cel- 
ery, etc. 



Borage for Salads.— This is an excellent 
ingredient in nearly all vegetable salads. 
Cover a champagne-bottle with raw cotton 
or heavy, coarse flannel ; fasten it with 
thread ; set the bottle in a soup-plate, and 
pour warm water over it. Soak a handful 
of borage seeds in warm water for fifteeu 



PLAIN SALAD DRESSING. 



9 



minutes ; drain, and work them into the 
flannel around the bottle, as evenly as possi- 
ble. Place the bottle and soup-plate in a 
warm, dark place until the seeds sprout ; 
then bring it to the light. Keep water in 
the plate constantly. When the shoots are 
a few inches long, trim them off, as wanted, 
and add them to any salad with a plain 
dressing. 

Plain Salad Dressing is admissible 
with nearly all salads. It is composed of 
oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and nothing 
else. Many who do not care particularly 
for oil, use equal quantities of oil and vine- 
gar, others one-third vinegar to two-thirds 
oil ; these proportions satisfy a large class, 
but four parts of oil to one of vinegar are 
about the right proportions, provided the 
vinegar is of the best. 

The plain dressing is made in two ways, 
either mixed in a bowl and the salad added 
to it, or as follows : Take a tablespoon and 
put in it (holding it over the salad) one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth this quantity of 
freshly ground pepper, and a tablespoonful 
of oil ; mix and add to the salad. Add three 
more tablespoonfuls of oil ; toss the salad 
lightly for a few seconds ; lastly, add a table- 



lO 



MAYONNAISE. 



spoonful of sharp vinegar ; toss the salad 
again, and serve. 

Mayonnaise.— When preparing a mayon- 
naise in summer keep the bowl as cold as 
possible. Beat up the yolks of two raw 
eggs to a smooth consistency, add two salt- 
spoonfuls of salt and one of white pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of oil. Beat up thor- 
oughly, and by degrees add half a pint of oil. 
When it begins to thicken add a few drops 
of vinegar. The total amount of vinegar to 
be used is two tablespoonfuls, and the 
proper time to stop adding oil, and to add 
drops of vinegar, is when the dressing has a 
glassy look instead of a velvet appearance. 
After a few trials almost any one can make 
a mayonnaise, as it is very simple. 

Anchovy Salad.— Wash, skin, and bone 
eight salted anchovies ; soak them in water 
for an hour ; drain and dry them. Cut two 
hard-boiled eggs into slices. Arrange the 
leaves of a head of lettuce neatly in a salad- 
bowl and add the anchovies and the eggs. 
Prepare a plain dressing in a soup-plate, 
pour it over the salad and serve. The fish 
may be minced, chopped, or cut into fillets. 

Asparagus Salad.— Remove the binding 
round a bunch of asparagus, cut off an inch 



BEANS, LIMA, SALAD OF. 



II 



of the root end of each stalk, scrape off the 
outside skin, wash them, tie them in bunches 
containing six to eight each, and boil, if 
possible, with the heads standing just out 
of the water, as the rising steam will cook 
them sufficiently. If covered with water 
the heads are cooked before the root 
ends. When tender, plunge them into 
cold water, drain, arrange them on a side 
dish, pour over them a plain dressing, and 
serve. 

Beans, Lima, Salad of.— Boil one pint 
of lima beans for forty minutes in water 
slightly salted ; drain ; put them in a salad- 
bowl, and add three hot, boiled potatoes cut 
into slices. Mince a stalk of celery ; sprin- 
kle it over the vegetables. Prepare a plain 
dressing, pour it over the salad, and set the 
bowl in the ice-box ; when cold, serve. A 
little cold, boiled tongue may be added if 
liked. 

Beef Salad.— Cut into neat pieces, an 
inch in length, half a pound of boiled fresh 
beef. Take two heads of crisp lettuce, re- 
ject the outside leaves, wipe the small leaves 
separately, place them in a salad-bowl, add 
the beef. Chop up a sweet Spanish pepper, 
add a tablespoonful to the salad Prepare 



12 



fiEET LEAVfis Salad. 



a plain dressing, pour it over the salad; 
just before serving, mix gently. 

Beet Leaves Salad.— The seed-leaves of 
the beet were preferred by the Greeks to 
lettuce. They are served the same as let- 
tuce. If a little old, scald them in hot water 
a moment. Swiss chard is the midrib of 
the beet leaf. Remove the leaves, cut the 
midribs into equal lengths, tie in small 
bunches, boil thirty minutes. Arrange on 
a side dish, pour over them a plain dressing 
and serve either hot or cold. 

Bloater, Yarmouth, Salad o£— Take 
two whole fish from the can. Remove skin 
and bone, and cut them into pieces an inch 
square. Cut up three stalks of celery into 
inch pieces and each piece into strips ; place 
these in a salad-bowl and add the fish. 
Chop up three salt anchovies with a dozen 
capers into very small pieces ; strew over 
the salad ; add a plain dressing and toss 
lightly before serving. 

Breakfast Salad.— Scald two ripe toma* 
toes ; peel off the skin, and place them in ice- 
water ; when very cold, slice tliem. Peel and 
slice very thin one small cucumber. Put 
four leaves of lettuce into a salad-bowl, add 
the tomatoes and cucumber. Cut up one 



BRUSSELS-SPROUTS SALAD. 1 3 

spring onion ; add it, and, if possible, add 
four or five tarragon leaves. Now add a 
plain dressing and serve. 

Brussels- Sprouts Salad. — Pick over 
carefully a quart of sprouts, wash well, and 
boil rapidly for twenty minutes (if boiled 
slowly they lose their color). Drain, and 
plunge them into cold water. Drain again, 
and put them into a salad-bowl. Mince 
one-fourth of a pound of boiled ham, ar- 
range it neatly and evenly around the 
sprouts, and around this arrange a border 
of potato salad. Add a plain dressing, a 
teaspoonful of herbs, and serve. 

Carrot Salad.— The young spring carrots 
are excellent when served as a salad. Take 
six of them, wash, wipe them with sl coarse 
towel, boil them for ten minutes, drain and 
cut into narrow strips. Arrange neatly in 
the centre of a salad-bowl ; cut up half a 
pound of cold boiled mutton into neat 
pieces ; put it around the carrots. Mince a 
stalk of celery with a few tarragon leaves ; 
strew over the dish ; add a plain dressing 
and serve. 

Cauliflower Salad.— Put into a basin of 
coid water a head of cauliflower, head down- 
ward, add half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 



CELERIAC SAL AT). 



wineglass of vinegar. Let stand for half or 
three-fourths of an hour, drain, and put 
it into a saucepan to boil until tender. The 
length of time for boiling depends upon the 
size of the head. Remove the scum care- 
fully as it rises, or it will discolor the cauli- 
flower. When done separate the sprigs, 
and arrange them around the bowl, heads 
outward. Put into the centre of the dish a 
head of cabbage-lettuce, cover it with red 
mayonnaise (see Lobster Salad\ and sprinkle 
a few capers on top. Mask the cauliflower 
with mayonnaise, garnish with beet dia- 
monds, and the effect is very pleasing. 

Celeriac Salad.— Celeriac, or turnip-root- 
ed celery, is an excellent vegetable for the 
gouty and the rheumatic. When stewed 
and served with cream sauce, it is at its 
best. It may be used in salads either raw 
or boiled. If used raw, cut it into very thin 
slices ; if cooked, cut it into inch pieces. 
Mix with it endive, potato, and a little boiled 
tongue, in equal proportions ; serve with a 
plain dressing. 

Celery Salad.— With the exception of let- 
tuce, celery is more generally used as a saiad 
in this country than any other plant. 

Cut off the root end of three heads of eel- 



CHERRY SALAD. I5 

ery ; wipe each leaf-stalk carefully, and cut 
them into inch pieces. Cut each, piece into 
stiips, put them into a salad-bowl, add a 
plain mayonnaise, and serve. 

Cherry Salad.— Remove the stones from 
a quart of fine, black ox-heart cherries. 
Place them into a compote, dust powdered 
sugar over them, and add half a wineglass- 
ful each of sherry and cura^oa. Just before 
serving mix lightly. 

Chicory Salad.— Thoroughly wash and 
drain two heads of chicory ; cut away the 
green leaves and use them for garnishing, 
or boil them as greens. Cut off the root- 
end from the bleached leaves, and put the 
latter into a salad-bowl that has been rubbed 
with a clove of garlic. Add half a dozen 
tarragon leaves, four to six tablespoonfuls 
of oil, saltspoonful of white pepper, and 
two saltspoonfuls of salt. Mix thoroughly. 
Now add a tablespoonful of tarragon vine- 
gar, and you have a delightful salad. 

Chicken Salad.— The average cook book 
contains a good deal of nonsense about 
this salad. Nothing can be more simple 
than to mix a little nicely cut cold boiled 
chicken and celery together, with a table- 
spoonful or two of mayonnaise. Put this 



i6 



CHICKEN SALAI). 



mixture into a salad-bowl, arrange it neatly, 
and over all add a mayonnaise. Garnish 
with celery tops, hard-boiled eggs, strips of 
beets, etc. Use a little more celery than 
chicken. Or, tear a few leaves of lettuce, 
put them in a salad-bowl, and add half a 
cold, boiled, tender chicken that has been 
cut into neat pieces ; pour over it a mayon- 
naise ; garnish neatly, and serve. 

For large parties, and when the chicken 
is apt to become dry, from having been cut 
up long before it is wanted, it is best to 
keep it moist by adding a plain dressing. 
Drain it before using. Put on a flat side- 
dish a liberal bed of crisp lettuce. Add 
the chicken, garnish neatly, and, just before 
sending to table, pour over it a mayonnaise. 

If in hot w^eather, arrange the salad on a 
dish that will stand in a small tub or kid. 
Fill this with ice, place the dish on top, pin 
a napkin or towel around the tub to hide it 
from view. Flowers, smilax, etc., may be 
pinned on this, which produce a very pretty 
effect. 

In ancient times the fairest and youngest 
lady at table was expected to prepare and 
mix the salad with her fingers. " Retourner 
la salade les doigts" is the French way of 



CODFISH (salt) salad. 



describing a lady to be still young and 
beautiful. 

Codfish (Salt) Salad.—Take three pieces 
of codfish two inclies square ; split rhem in 
two, and soak them in water over night. 
Change the water twice, next day drain and 
wipe dry. Baste each piece with a little 
butter, and broil (they make a very nice 
breakfast dish, served with drawn butter). 
When cool, tear them apart, and cover with 
a plain salad dressing ; let stand for two 
hours. Half fill a salad-bowl with crisp 
lettuce leaves ; drain the fish and add it to 
the lettuce ; add mayonnaise ; garnish with 
kmon-peel rings, hard-boiled eggs, etc., and 
serve. 

Com Salad, or Fetticus, — Carefully 
pick over two quarts of fetticus ; reject all 
damaged leaves ; wash, and dry in a napkin. 
Place in a salad-bowl ; add a pint of minced 
celery and two hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
fine ; finally add a plain dressing, toss, and 
serve. 

Crab Salad.— Boll three dozen hard-shell 
crabs for twenty-five minutes. Let them 
cool, then remove the top shell and tail ; 
quarter the remainder, and pick out the 
meat carefully with a nut-picker or kitchen 



1 8 CRAY-FISH SALAD. 

fork. The large claws should not be for- 
gotten, for they contain a dainty morsel ; 
the fat that adheres to the top shell should 
not be overlooked. Cut up an amount of 
celery equal in bulk to the crab meat ; mix 
both together with a few spoonfuls of plain 
salad dressing ; then put it in a salad-bowl. 
Mask it with a mayonnaise ; garnish with 
crab-claws, shrimps, and hard-boiled eggs, 
alternated with tufts of green, such as pars- 
ley, etc. 

Cray-fish SaJad.— Cray-fish (or craw-fish) 
resemble small lobsters ; they are excellent 
as a salad, and are extensively used in gar- 
nishing fish salads. Boil two dozen cray- 
fish for fifteen minutes in water slightly 
salted ; break the shells in two ; pick out 
the tail part of each ; cut it in two length- 
wise ; remove the black ligament. Put into 
a salad-bowl the small white leaves of a 
head of cabbage-lettuce ; add the fish ; pour 
over them a mayonnaise. Garnish with the 
head part of the shells, tufts of green, and 
hard-boiled eggs. 

Cress Salad.— Cress is one of our best 
spring salads. Pick the leaves over care- 
fully, removing the bruised leaves and all 
large stems. Mince a young spring onion : 



CUCUMBER SALAD. 



19 



Strew it over the cress, add a plain dressing, 
and serve. 

Cnoumber Salad.— If properly prepared, 
cucumbers are not apt to interfere with 
digestion. They should be gathered early 
in the morning and kept in a cool place un- 
til wanted. After peeling, slice them very 
thin ; sprinkle a little salt over them ; let 
stand ten minutes, and add cayenne, and 
equal parts of oil and vinegar. If allowed 
to remain in salt water any length of time, 
if oil is omitted, or if their natural juices 
are squeezed out of them, they become in- 
digestible. 

Currant Salad.— Put a pint of red cur- 
rants in the centre of a compote. Around 
them make a border of a pint of white cur- 
rants, and around these arrange a border of 
red raspberries. Set the dish on the tabic. 
Take a pint of sweet cream, add to it three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; stir it 
up to dissolve the sugar ; while doing so add 
a tablespoonful each of brandy and cura^oa. 
Set the sauce on the table ; dish up the 
fruit ; and let each guest help himself to 
the sauce. 

Dandelion Salad.— A dandelion salad is 
one of the healthiest of spring salads. Take 



20 



DUMAS SALAD. 



two quarts of freshly gathered dandelions ; 
wash them well ; pick them over carefully ; 
let stand in water over night, as this im- 
proves them. Drain, and dry in a napkin ; 
place them in a salad-bowl ; add two young 
spring onions, minced. Serve with a plain 
dressing. 

Dumas Salad (Devised by Alexandre 
Dumas). — " Put in a salad-bowl a yolk of 
egg boiled hard ; add a tablespoonful of oil, 
and make a paste of it ; then add a few 
stalks of chervil chopped fine, a teaspoon- 
ful each of tunny and anchovy paste, a little 
French mustard, a small pickled cucumber 
chopped fine, the white of the egg chopped 
fine, and a little soy. Mix the whole well 
with two tablespoonfuls of wine vinegar ; 
then add two or three steamed potatoes 
sliced, a few slices of beet, same of celeriac, 
same of rampion, salt and Hungarian pep- 
per to taste ; toss gently twenty minutes, 
then serve." 

Eels, Mayonnaise of.— Put into a salad- 
bowl two heads of bleached endive, each 
leaf having been previously examined. Take 
six pieces of potted eels about two inches 
long ; remove the bone ; break the eels into 
neat pieces, and arrange them on the en* 



EGG SALAD. 



21 



dive; add a mayonnaise, garnish, and 
serve. 

Egg Salad.— Put into a salad-bowl the 
small crisp leaves of a head of lettuce ; add 
four hard-boiled egg^ sliced. Mince a dozen 
capers ; sprinkle over the eggs, and add a 
plain dressing. 

Endive Salad.~-The curled endive is ex- 
cellent for fall and winter salads. Pick the 
leaves over carefully ; separate the green 
from the white ; put the latter into a salad- 
bowl, add minced salad herbs, and a suspi- 
cion of onion. Serve with plain dressing. 

Escarole Salad.— This is one of the best 
salads known. Serve it as follows : Take 
two heads of escarole ; reject all green and 
decayed leaves ; place the white bleached 
leaves in a salad-bowl, after being thoroughly 
washed and dried in a napkin ; take a small 
piece of crust of bread, and a clove of gar- 
lic, dip the garlic in salt and rub it a 
few times on the bread ; add the piece of 
bread to the salad-bowl. Next add half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pep- 
per, and four tablespoonfuls of the very best 
olive oil ; toss the salad gently ; then add 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; toss 
again ; remove the piece of crust, which is 



22 



FROG SALAD. 



known as " Chapon," and serve. Escarole 
is the broad-leaved variety of the well-known 
endive. 

Frog Salad.— This is a delicious salad. 
Soak two dozen frogs' legs in salt water for 
one hour ; drain ; stew them slowly until 
quite tender ; take them out of the boiling 
water and cover them with milk. Let this 
come to a boil ; drain and cool ; remove the 
bones. Cut up celery enough to half fill a 
salad-bowl ; add the frogs which should 
nearly fill the bowl. Arrange neatly ; cover 
Avith mayonnaise; garnish with lobster- 
claws, little tufts of shrimps, and green 
herbs, alternated with hard-boiled eggs 
quartered lengthwise. 

Herbs, Salad.— The most important de- 
sideratum (except possibly pure condiments) 
in the art of salad making, is those little 
salad herbs that to many appear insignifi- 
cant, but to the epicure perfect a salad. All 
travellers tell us that French salads are far 
superior to the salads of other countries ; 
but without fragrant herbs the French salads 
would be as insipid as those of England. I 
strongly advise my readers to cultivate a 
taste for these precious little herbs : Tarra- 
gon, borage, chervil, chives, and pimpernelL 



HERRING SALAD. 



23 



Herring Salad.— So«ik four salt Holland 
herrings in water or milk for three hours ; 
then remove the skin and back-bone and cut 
them into neat square pieces. Slice two 
quarts of boiled potatoes; while hot, put them 
into a dish and pour over them Rhine wine 
enough to moisten them ; when cold add the 
herring and the yolks of four hard-boiled 
eggs, chopped up. Crush a dozen pep- 
per corns in a napkin, with a knife-handle, 
add to the salad and mix all together. If 
milt herring are used, pound the milt to a 
paste, moisten with vinegar, add to tlie salad. 
If roe herring are used, soak the roe in vin- 
egar for a few minutes and strew the eggs 
over the salad. If the herrings have been 
soaked too long a little salt should be added. 
The above is a true herring salad, though 
some add a little oil, but the majority pre- 
fer it as above directed. 

Hop Salad.— Hop-sprouts are not only 
wholesome but are a most excellent vege- 
table. In hop-growing districts the surplus 
sprouts arc thrown away. This is an error. 
Gather the sprouts before the heads de- 
velop, soak them for half an hour in water 
slightly salted ; drain ; boil for ten min- 
utes, and serve them with a plain salad 



24 



ITALIAN SALAD. 



dressing. They may be eaten either hot oi 
cold. 

Italian Salad.--N early all mixed vegeta- 
ble salads that contain various ingredients 
may be safely called a ritalienncy for all culi- 
nary odds and ends are made into salads by 
these thrifty people, and it must not for an 
instant be supposed that the different items 
are thrown indifferently together. On the 
contrary, they study the all-important prob- 
lem of how to first please the eye, so that 
their gastronomic effort may more easily 
please the palate. A salad of eight or ten 
ingredients is usually arranged on a round 
plate, wheel fashion, with half of a hard- 
boiled egg, cut crosswise, to represent a 
hub. When only five ingredients are used, 
the salad takes the forms of stars or other 
shapes as fancy dictates. They are usually 
served with plain salad dressing. 

Lamb Salad.— In hot weather this salad 
is very acceptable. Put into a salad-bowl 
the crisp small centre leaves of two heads 
of cabbage lettuce. Cut up three-fourths 
of a pound of cold roast lamb, add to the 
lettuce. Chop up a dozen capers with a few 
tarragon leaves ; strew over the salad ; serve 
with a plain salad dressing. 



LETTUCE SALAD. 



25 



Lettuce Salad.— -Take two good sized 
heads of the broad- or long-leaved varieties 
of lettuce ; separate the leaves ; wipe them 
carefully to remove all grit ; break or tear 
each leaf apart (do not cut lettuce) ; put 
them in a salad-bowl ; add oil, pepper, and 
salt, and a teaspoonful of chopped herbs ; 
toss lightly. Now add the vinegar, toss 
again, and serve immediately. — For propor- 
tions see Plain Salad Dressing. 

Lobster Salad.— Take two live hen or 
female lobsters ; boil them thirty minutes ; 
drain. When cold, break them apart ; crack 
the claws, and if the tail fins are covered 
with eggs remove them carefully. Take 
out the sand pouch found near the head, 
split the fleshy part of the tail in two length- 
wise, remove the small long entrail found 
therein. Adhering to the body-shell may 
be found a layer of creamy fat, save this, 
and also the green fat in the body of the 
lobster (called Tom Alley by New England- 
ers) and the coral. If celery is used, tear 
the lobster into shreads with forks ; if let- 
tuce, cut the lobster into half inch pieces ; 
place the salad herb in a bowl, add the lob- 
ster and the fat ; and pour over it a rich 
mayonnaise ; garnish with the claws and 



A 



26 



MELON SALAD. 



heads, tufts of green, hard-boiled eggs, etc. 
The lobster eggs may be separated and 
sprinkled over the mayonnaise. The coral 
is used for coloring mayonnaise, and also 
butter, which is then used in decorating 
salmon and other dark fish, used in salads. 

Melon Salad.— The best way to eat a 
melon is unquestionably with a little salt, 
but melons are very deceptive, they may 
look delicious, but from growing in the 
same field with squashes and other vegeta- 
bles they often taste insipid. Such may be 
made quite palatable in salads. Cut the 
melon into strips ; then remove the skin ; 
cut the eatable part into pieces, and send to 
table with a plain dressing. 

Mint Salad.~This is an egg salad with 
the addition of six leaves of mint chopped 
fine, serve with a plain dressing, and with or 
after cold roast lamb. 

Orange Salads.— Peel and slice three 
oranges that have been on ice. Remove the 
seeds, arrange the slices in a compote, cover 
with powdered sugar, and add two table- 
spoonfuls each of maraschino, cura^oa, and 
brandy. Let it stand an hour in the ice-box 
before serving. Or, arrange in a dish a 
neat border of cold boiled rice. Peel and 



OYSTER SALAD. 



divide into sections three Florida oranges ; 
put the oranges in the centre, dust pow- 
dered sugar over all, and set the dish in the 
ice box. Just before serving pour over the 
salad two wineglassfuls of arrack. A plain 
salad dressing is served with orange salad in 
some places in the East, but would not suit 
the American palate. 

Oyster Salad.— Boil two dozen small oys- | 
ters for five minutes in water enough to cover > 
them ; add a little salt and a tablespoonful 
of vinegar ; drain and cool. Put into a salad- 
bowl the centre leaves of two heads of cab- 
bage lettuce, add the oysters whole, pour 
over them a mayonnaise ; garnish with oys- 
ter-crabs, hard-boiled eggs, and, if liked, a 
few anchovies cut into fillets. 

Pigeon Salad.— Wild pigeons are at times 
so plentiful that they can be purchased for 
75 cents per dozen. They are usually served 
broiled, roasted, or in pies ; but pigeon salad 
is a very dainty dish. Take equal parts of 
celery and roasted pigeon ; arrange neatly, 
with mayonnaise ; garnish and serve. 

Pineapple Salad.— Peel and dig out the 
eyes of two very ripe pineapples. Take 
hold of the crown of the pine with the left 
hand ; take a fork in the right hand and 



28 



POTATO SALAD. 



with it tear the pine into shreds until there 
is nothing left but the core, which throw 
away. Place the shredded fruit liglitly in a 
compote. Take half a pint of white sugar 
syrup ; add to it a wineglassful of arrack, a 
tablespoonful of brandy, and one of cura^oa. 
Mix and pour over the pines. Set in ice- 
box. When cold, serve. 

Potato Salad.— Cut up into slices two 
quarts of boiled potatoes while hot ; add to 
them a teaspoonful each of chopped onion 
and parsley ; pour over them a liberal quan- 
tity of plain salad dressing. If the potatoes 
should then appear too dry, add a little hot 
water, or better still, soup stock ; toss lightly 
so as not to break the slices ; then place 
the salad on ice to become cold. Serve by 
placing a leaf of lettuce on each small 
plate, and add two tablespoonfuls of the po- 
tato to the lettuce, for each person. Cold 
boiled potatoes do not make a good potato 
salad. 

Prawn Salad.— These dainties can al- 
ways be obtained in Fulton Market, cooked 
and shelled. Take one quart of prawns and 
one quart and a pint of cut celery ; put the 
celery in a bowl ; add the prawns ; garni^b 
neatly and serve with a mayonnaise. 



RAHUIT SALAD. 



29 



Rabbit Salad,— Rabbits are always cheap 
and good, from November to January, and 
should be enjoyed by the poor as well as 
the rich. Cut up the flesh of two roasted 
rabbits into neat pieces ; place them in a 
bowl and cover with a plain dressing ; add 
a teaspoonful of minced salad herbs ; let 
stand for four hours. Put into a salad-bowl 
the leaves of three hearts of cabbage let- 
tuce ; drain the meat, and add to the let- 
tuce. Put into a soup plate a teaspoonful of 
French mustard ; thin it with a tablespoon- 
ful of the dressing drained from the meat, 
and gradually add to this a pint of mayon- 
naise, then poor it over the salad. 

Salmon Salads. — Broil two salmon 
steaks ; when done break the fish into flakes 
and add to it a little salt, pepper, and two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Let stand 
for an hour. Half fill a salad-bowl with let- 
tuce ; add the fish, and garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs, stoned olives, and a few spiced 
oysters. 

No. 2. — Put into a salad-bowl three stalks 
of celery, sliced ; add half a pound of canned 
salmon ; arrange neatly ; add mayonnaise ; 
garnish and serv^e. 

No. 3. — Boil a six-pound salmon, whole ; 



Sardine sALAt). 



when done and cold place it on a long fish- 
platter ; prepare a red mayonnaise (see 
lobster salad) ; fill a paper cornucopia with 
the sauce and squeeze it through the small 
end over the fish in waves, to represent 
scales. Garnish with the small centre hearts 
of lettuce, hard-boiled eggs, cray-fish, and 
little mounds of shrimps or oyster crabs. 

Saxdine Salad.— Wash the oil from six 
sardines, remove skin and bone and pour a 
little lemon juice over them. Put into a 
salad-bowl the leaves of a head of crisp let- 
tuce ; add the fish. Chop up two hard- 
boiled eggs, add to the fish, and serve with 
a plain dressing. Some do not approve of 
the washing process, but one of the princi- 
pal reasons why Americans dislike oil is the 
fact that they first tasted it on sardines with 
which a poor fish-oil is generally used, and 
the reason that the trade in sardines has fal- 
len off, is owing to the poor oil used in the 
canning of these otherwise dainty fish. 

Scollop Salad.— Soak twenty-five scol- 
lops in salt water for half an hour ; rinse 
them in cold water and boil twenty minutes ; 
drain. Cut them into thin slices ; mix with 
an equal quantity of sliced celery ; cove/ 
with mayonnaise, garnish, and serve. 



TOMATO SALAD. 



31 



Tomato Salad.— A perfect tomato salacj 
is prepared as follows : Take three fine 
ripe August tomatoes and scald them a mo- 
ment ; skin, and set on ice to cool ; slice ; 
put them into a salad-bowl ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped tarragon and a plain salad 
dressing. Sliced tomatoes with mayonnaise 
are not to be despised. 



E. C.'s Salad Dressing. 

Pour one pint of boiling water into a fa- 
rina boiler ; add six tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar ; place on the stove. Beat six eggs 
lightly. Mix, with a little cold water, two 
tablespoonfuls of mustard, two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and 
one heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch. 

Beat this mixture up with the eggs, and 
stir it very slowly into the boiling water and 
vinegar, after having removed the latter 
from the stove — in order to prevent possi- 
bility of curdling. Return to the stove ; 
stir constantly until quite thick. Remove 
from the stove, and add immediately half a 
pound of butter; stir until the butter is thor- 
oughly melted. Now put the yolks of two 



32 



s. f/s shrimp salad. 



eggs on a plate, and, using a fork, mix grad- 
ually with them half a pint of olive-oil, stir- 
ring it in vigorously. When the first mix- 
ture is cold, beat the second into it. If 
more oil is desired, the yolk of another egg 
must be mixed with it. 

This recipe will make about one quart of 
dressing. If less is wished, part of the first 
mixture can be saved in a cool place, and 
can be used later by making a fresh supply 
of the olive-oil mixed with yolk of egg. 

S. F.'s Shrimp Salad.— Boil a quart of 
fresh shrimps for twenty minutes. Open 
and throw away the shells. Take the crisp 
leaves of a head of lettuce, and place in a 
salad-bowl with two fresh tomatoes peeled 
and sliced. Add the shrimps and pour over 
all a mayonnaise — red, if convenient — and 
serve. 



BREAKFAST DAINTIES 



I 



CONTENTS. 



FAOK 

REMARKS ON BREAKFAST COOK- 
ERY, . .9 

FRUITS. 

Apples, Baked, . . .11 

Bananas, . . .11 

Blackberries, Raspberries, etc., ii 
Cantaloupes, . . .11 

Cherries, .12 
Currants, . . . .12 
Figs and Dates, . . .12 
Grapes, . . . .12 
Melons, . . . .13 

Oranges, .... 13 
Peaches, . . .13 

Pears, .... 13 
Pineapples, • . . .14 

Plums, ... .14 
Strawberries, . . . .14 

Miscellaneous, ... 14 

BEVERAGES. 

Coffee, . . . . .15 

"After Dinner" Coffee, , 17 

Boiling Water for Coffee, . 18 



6 CONTENTS. 

rAGK 

Tea,. . . . . i8 

Cocoa and Chocolate, . . i8 

BREAD, ETC. 

Bread, .... 
" Home-made*' Bread and Rolls, 
Salt, .... 
Maize, or Indian Corn, 
Corn Bread, 
Corn Meal Custard, 
"Boston Brown Bread," 
Maize Muffins, 
Graham Muffins, 
Breakfast Biscuit, 
Milk Bread, 
Rolled Wheat Biscuit, 
To Test the Oven, 



TOAST. 

Dry Toast, . .29 

Dip Toast, ... 29 

Milk Toast, . .30 

Anchovy Toast, ... 30 

Clam Toast, . .30 

Marrow Bone Toast, . . 30 

Oyster Toast, .31 

Salmon Toast, . .31 

Tongue; Toa^t, . .31 



20 
23 
23 
24 

25 
25 
26 
26 
27 
27 
27 
28 
28 



CONTENTS. 



7 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 

PAGB 



To Test Eggs, 
Baked Eggs, 
Omelets, 
Cheese Omelet, 
Omelet with Herbs, 
Onion Omelet, 
Oyster Omelet, . 
Omelette au Rhum, 
Spanish Omelet, . 
Sweet Omelet, 



32 
32 
32 
34 
34 
34 
34 
35 
35 
36 



POTATOES. 

Potatoes in General, . . 36 

Boiled Potatoes, . . .37 

Lyonnaise Potatoes, . . 38 

Potatoes au Cochon, . .38 

Potatoes au Gratin, . . 38 

Potatoes, Sautked, . . .38 

MISCELLANEOUS BREAKFAST 
DISHES. 

Artichokes (French), . . 39 

Artichokes (French), Fried, . 39 

Chicken Croquettes, . . 40 

Chicken, Devilled, . . .40 

Chicken, Fried, , . . 40 



8 CONTENTS. 



rAGB 

Crabs, Soft-Shell, . . .41 


Filet of Sole ; Sauce Tartare, 


42 


Hamburg Steak, . 


42 


Hominy Fritters, 


43 


Kidney, Sauteed, . 


43 


Lamb Chops with French Peas, 


43 


Mushrooms on Toast, 


45 


Mutton Chops with Fried Toma- 




toes, . . . . 


45 


v/VSIERS, J3ROILED, 


40 


Pork and Beans, 


46 


Reed Birds, 


48 


Salt Codfish, Broiled, 


49 


Sardines, Broiled, 


49 


Sauce Tartare, 


49 


Sausages, .... 


SO 


OMll.Llb, JDKUILED, . . 


50 


Smelts, Fried, 


50 


Squabs, . . . . . 


50 


Steak, Tenderloin ; Sauce Bear- 




NAISE, . . . . . 


51 


Steak, Sirloin ; Sauce Bordelaise, 


52 


Tomato Sauce, 


52 


Tripe with Oysters, . 


S3 


Tripe, Lyonnaise, 


53 


Turkey, Minced, with Poached Egg, 


44 


Veal Cutlet, Sauce Robert, . 


53 



REMARKS ON 
BREAKFAST COOKERY. 



Dinner may be pleasant ^ 

So may social tea ; 
But yet methinks the breakfast 

Is best of all the three:' 

The importance of preparing a variety of 
dainty dishes for the breakfast-table is but 
lightly considered by many who can afford lux- 
uries, quite as much as by those who little 
dream of the delightful, palate-pleasing com- 
pounds made from * * unconsidered trifles. ' ' 

The desire of the average man is to remain in 
bed until the very last moment. A hurried 
breakfast of food long cooked awaits the late 
riser, who will not masticate it properly when he 
finally arrives at the breakfast-table, and the best 
of housekeepers is discouraged and prevented 
from ever attempting culinary surprises, when 
they are not to be appreciated. In this way she 
is innocently driven into a rut from which it is 



lO REMARKS ON BREAKFAST COOKERY. 

difficult to escape when occasions present them- 
selves for offering novelties. 

The following recipes and remarks will be 
found valuable assistants to those so situated, 
and will offer many practical suggestions intend- 
ed to develop ingenuity and skilfulness in this 
much -neglected branch of cookery. Avoid ask- 
ing that innocent but often annoying question, 
'*What shall we have for breakfast?" Rely 
upon your own resources and inventiveness, and 
you will soon master the situation. The aver- 
age business man generally knows but little of 
what is or is not in market, and he dislikes to 
have his gastronomic knowledge constantly 
analyzed. 

Should your domestic duties prevent you from 
occasionally visiting the public markets, it will 
be found expedient to subscribe for a reliable 
newspaper that makes a specialty of reporting 
the latest gastronomic news. This cannot be 
accomplished by cook-books, owing to the fluc- 
tuations in prices and the constant arrival of 
** good cheer" at seasons when least expected. 

Steaks and chops are looked upon as the sub- 
stantial of the breakfast-table, but when served 
continually they do not give satisfaction, be they 
ever so good, and are not duly appreciated un- 
less interspersed occasionally with lighter dishes. 



BAKED APPLES. 



II 



FRUITS. 

Apples, Baked.— Peel and core six large 
sour apples ; mix together a cup of sugar, half a 
teaspoonful of mixed ground spice, a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of grated cracker 
crumbs, and two tablespoonfuls of milk or wa- 
ter. Fill the core with the mixture ; put the 
apples in a pan, and bake ; serve them hot or 
cold with sweetened cream. A border of whipped 
cream around the apples may be substituted for 
the plain cream. 

Apples may be served sliced, covered with 
sugar and a mild liquor poured over them, and 
topped off with whipped cream. 

Bananas.— Select short, thick, red or yellow 
bananas ; peel and cut them in quarters length- 
wise ; serve on a napkin. 

Blackberries, Raspberries, Whortle- 
berries, etc., are too well known to require in- 
structions as to how they should be served ; but 
a word of caution is necessary. They should 
be very thoroughly examined before they are 
served ; all stems, bruised berries, and unripe 
fruit should be removed, and a thorough search 
made for minute particles of grit and for insects. 

Cantaloupes, or small melons, should be 



12 



CHERRIES. 



placed on ice the night preceding their use. 
Cut or slice off the top ot each melon ; remove 
the seeds, and replace them with fine ice ; re- 
place the covers, and send to table looking as 
though uncut. 

Should they taste insipid, trim off the rind, 
cut the remainder into neat pieces, pour over 
them a plain salad-dressing, and they will be 
found quite palatable. 

Cherries.— If large, fine-looking fruit, serve 
them plain ; but they must be cold to be palat- 
able. Keep them on ice over night, or serve 
glasses of fine ice to each guest, with the fruit 
arranged on top of it. 

Currants.— Large, fine clusters should be 
served on the stem, arranged on a fruit-stand 
alone, or in layers alternated with mulberries, 
raspberries, or other seasonable fruits. Serve 
with powdered sugar. 

Figs and Dates may be served at breakfast. 

Grapes.— Malaga, Tokay, Hamburg, and 
similar varieties of grapes should be well rinsed 
in ice-water, and cut into small bunches with 
fruit scissors. Place on a glass dish, or dishes 
surrounded by fine ice, and, if plentiful, do not 
divide the clusters, but drain them out of ice- 
water. Serve on a neatly-folded napkin, a 
bunch for each guest. 



MELONS. 



Melons.— The best way to eat melons is un- 
questionably with a little salt ; they should be 
kept over night in an ice-box and served at the 
following breakfast ; but melons are very de- 
ceptive ; they may look delicious, but, from 
growing in or near the same garden where 
squashes and pumpkins are raised, they often 
taste as insipid as these vegetables would if eaten 
raw. In this case they are made very palatable 
by cutting the edible part into slices, and serv- 
ing them with plain dressing of oil, vinegar, 
pepper, and salt 

Oranges.— Of the many ways of serving 
oranges, I prefer them sliced. If in summer, 
keep them cold until wanted. Remove all 
seeds, and cut large slices in two. Mandarins are 
served whole, with the peel scored but not re- 
moved. 

Peaches.— If the peaches are lai^e and per- 
fect do not slice them, but serve them whole ; 
wipe or brush off the feathery coating, arrange 
them neatly on the fruit-dish, and decorate 
them with fresh green leaves and flowers. 

Sliced peaches turn a rusty brown color if 
allowed to stand after cutting them. Should 
this occur, cover them with whipped cream 
properly sweetened. 

Pears.— Fine-flavored pears should be served 



14 



PINEAPPLES. 



whole ; inferior pears, sliced and dredged with 
sugar ; they are acceptable when mixed with 
other fruits. 

Pineapples are best served as a salad. Pare 
and dig out the eyes ; take hold of the crown of 
the pine with the left hand ; take a fork in the 
right hand, and with it tear the pine into shreds, 
until the core is reached, which throw away. 
Arrange the shredded fruit lightly in a compote, 
add a liberal quantity of powdered sugar, a wine- 
glassful of Cura9oa, and half a wine-glassful of 
brandy. 

Alternate layers of shredded pineapple and 
fresh cocoanut served with a sauce of orange 
juice, seasoned with sugar and liquors, is excel- 
lent 

Plums are too often picked before they are 
quite ripe, which prevents them from becoming 
popular as a breakfast fruit ; this is true of 
Apricots also. 

Strawberries are often objectionable, ow- 
ing to grit ; wash, or rather rinse them in water, 
drain on a napkin, and serve with vanilla- 
flavored whipped cream for a change. 

Nearly all tropical fruits that are imported are 
excellent breakfast fruits, such as the alligator 
pear, Lechosa prickly pear, pomegranate, tropi- 
cal mango, and many others. 



COFFEE. 



BEVERAGES. 

Coffee.—The coffee-tree is a much -branched 
tree of the cinchona family, not exceeding twen- 
ty feet in height, and much resembling a cherry- 
tree. Its pale green leaves are about six inches 
in length. The flowers are in clusters in the 
axils of the leaves, are white in color, resembling 
orange- tree flowers, and perfume the air. The 
fruit on ripening turns from green to red, and 
is about the size of a cherry or cranberry, each 
containing two seeds closely united by their flat 
sides. These being removed and separated, be- 
come the coffee of commerce. 

* * How to make good coffee' ' is the great 
problem of domestic life. Tastes naturally 
differ, and some prefer a quantity of chicory, 
while to others the very name of this most 
wholesome plant (but keep it out of coffee) will 
produce nausea. 

Purchase coffee from large dealers who roast 
it daily. Have it ground moderately fine, and 
do not purchase large quantities at a time. At 
home keep the coffee in air- tight jars or cans 
when not in use. 

The old-fcishioned coffee-pot has much to 
recommend it, and the only possible objection 



i6 



COFFEE. 



to it IS that it makes a cloudy beverage. Those 
who find this objectionable should use one of 
the many patented modern filters. When the 
coffee is finely ground these filter-pots are the 
best to use. Put three ounces of finely-ground 
coffee in the top compartment of the coffee-pot ; 
pour a quart of boiling water over it ; let it filter 
through ; add half a pint more of boiling wa- 
ter ; let it filter through, and pour it out into a 
hot measure, and pour it through the filter 
again. Let it stand a moment on the range, 
and you have coffee as clear as wine ; but unless 
your pot, measure, and the water are very hot, 
the coffee will taste as though it had become 
cold and then " warmed over/* No eggs or 
other foreign substances are used to clear or 
settle the coffee. 

As I do not object to a sediment in my cup, 
I use the old-fashioned coffee-pot. I first heat 
the pot, and put the coffee into a loose muslin 
bag, and pour a quart of boiling water over 
every three ounces of coffee. I let it boil, or 
rather come to a boiling point a moment ; then 
let it stand to settle. Should it not do so rapidly 
enough, I pour a few tablespoonfuls of cold 
\vater round the inside edge of the coffee-poL 
It is advisable to tie a thread to the bag, with 



"after-dinner coffee." 17 

which it may be drawn out ot the coffee, if de- 
sired. 

Now, heat the coffee cup ; fill it one third full 
of hot, but not boiled, cream ; then add the 
coffee, and serve. 

One word as to eggs used in making coffee. 
I admit that a different flavor is produced when 
they are used ; but the albumen of the eggs cov- 
ers the coffee grains, and coagulates, preventing 
the escape of the properties of the coffee, and 
compelling one to use nearly double the quan- 
tity of coffee to produce the same result as when 
eggs are not used. 

Pure Java, if of a high order, does not need 
other brands of coffee to make it palatable ; 
but, as a rule, most of the coffees sold at the 
grocers' are improved by blending or mixing 
one third each of pure Mocha, Java, and Mara- 
caibo to make a rich cup of coffee, while a mixt- 
ure of two thirds Mandehling Java and one third 
** male berry" (so called) Java produces excel- 
lent results. Mexico coffee is quite acceptable, 
but the producers must clean it properly if they 
expect to receive patronage. 

After-dinner Coffee."— Use three ounces 
of finely-ground coffee to a pint of boiling water. 
Old Government Java does make a very satisfac- 
tory cup of after-dinner coffee. The after-dinner 



BOILING WATER. 



coffee found at most of the first-class restaurants 
in New York, such as the Brunswick, etc., con- 
tains chicory. 

Boiling Water is a very important desider- 
atum in the making of good coffee. The water 
should be fresh from the main pipe, boiled two 
or three minutes, and then added to the coffee. 
Servants frequently use water drawn from the 
range boiler, or water that has stood long in the 
tea-kettle ; in either case the coffee will be in- 
sipid. 

Tea.— The constituents of tea are very much 
the same as those of coffee — theine (an aromatic 
oil), sugar and gum, and a form of tannic acid. 
Green tea is more astringent than the other varie- 
ties, partly because it contains more tannin, and 
partly because it is sophisticated to adapt it to a 
peculiar taste. 

Whatever variety of tea used, do not allow the 
beverage to boil ; put the tea in a black earthen 
tea-pot previously heated ; pour boiling water 
over it ; let it draw for two minutes, and the proc- 
ess is at an end. Charitable institutions would 
find it advantageous to grind tea to powder in 
this way one half the quantity of tea ordinarily 
used is saved. 

Cocoa and Chocolate are obtained from 
the seeds of Theobroma cacao. The active prin- 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE. I9 



ciple is theobromine, a substance which resem- 
bles the alkaloids of coffee and tea, except that 
it contains more nitrogen than theine and 
caffeine. Another important difference between 
cacao (not cocoa) and coffee or tea is the large 
amount of fat or cacao-butter contained in the 
bean. 

The seed receptacle resembles a laige black 
cucumber, containing from ten to thirty leaves, 
which are roasted like coffee. The husks are 
then taken off, and are called cacao shells. The 
best cacao is made from the bean after the husks 
are removed. 

Chocolate is the finely -ground powder from 
the kernels mixed to a paste, with or without 
sugar. The product of this seed, being rich in 
fatty matters, is more difficult to digest, and 
many dyspeptics cannot use it unless the hts 
have been removed, which is now done by 
manufacturers. Nearly all brands of cacao and 
chocolate are recommended to be prepared at 
table ; but it is much better to prepare them be- 
fore the meal, and allow it to boil at least once 
before serving. 



fO 



BREAD. 



BREAD, ROLLS, ETC. 

Bread.-^The word is derived from the Anglo- 
Saxon bracan, to bruise, to pound, which is ex- 
pressive of the ancient mode of preparing the 
grain. Bread was not introduced into Rome 
until five hundred and fifty years after its founda- 
tion. Pliny informs us that the Romans learned 
this, with many other improvements, during the 
war with Perseus, King of Macedon. The 
armies, on their return, brought Grecian bakers 
with them into Italy, who were called pistores, 
from their ancient practice of bruising the grain 
in mortars. 

The Greeks ascribed the invention of bread- 
making to Pan ; but the Chaldeans and Egyp- 
tians were acquainted with it at a still more re- 
mote period. In the paintings discovered in the 
tombs of Egypt the various processes used by 
them in bread-making are distinctly represented. 

Bread from wheat was first made in China, 
2000 B. c. 

An extensive variety of substances is used in 
making bread ; the roots, shoots, bark, flowers, 
fruits, and seeds of trees and plants have been, 
and are still, made into bread by semi-civilized 



BREAD. 



21 



races. In Iceland codfish is dried and beaten to 
a powder, and made into bread. 

Bread is universally admitted to be a matter 
deserving the serious consideration of all good 
housewives. It is no longer a luxury, as in 
olden times, but a positive necessity ; upon it 
depends the health of all mankind. It is, there- 
fore, highly important that its ingredients should 
be of the very best quality. At no time is this 
question more seriously to be considered than 
when changing the food of infants from liquids 
to solid food. 

Bakers* bread cannot always be relied upon. 
One never knows to what extent the ilour has 
been mixed with brands of flour made from 
musty or sprouted wheat, as the baker can make 
what appears to be good bread from these by 
mixing them with what is known as garlic flour, 
which is a grade of flour ground with garlic, the 
effect being to conceal other unpleasant odors. 

Their flour is often stored in damp cellars, 
where, under the influence of heat that is not 
strong enough lo expel moisture, fermentation 
takes place in it, exactly as it does in bread- 
making, except on a smaller scale. 

Any flour containing too much moisture is 
likely to *' heat,*' or sour, and flour of the best 
quality, when placed in damp, stuffy cellars, 



22 



BREAD. 



where it will absorb moisture, is likely to do the 
same thing. The yeast used by many bakers is 
deserving the attention of the Health Department 
Damaged hops are often used, which, when 
boiled too long, impart their obnoxious flavor 
to the yeast, and to the bread made from it 

If what is known as ** head yeast" be allowed 
to ferment too far — as is often the case — it will 
soiir the stock yeast ; or if the fermentation be 
too feeble, the result in either case will be un- 
healthy bread. 

Potatoes used in making potato ferment** 
are often of a very inferior <][uality, and impart 
their rankness to the bread. When bread is 
sold by weight an excess of water is introduced 
to brands of dry flour, which absorb more than 
others, and the result is heavy, dark, pasty 
bread, which is often sour. 

By the producer of inferior bread these litde 
items are not taken into consideration. The 
bread has been made, and it must be sold ; and 
the unsuspecting housewife who buys bread from 
certain bakers because they sell it a few cents 
less per loaf than the price asked by firms who 
will not jeopardize their reputations, is endan- 
gering the health of her family. 

I particularly warn my readers against bakers 
seeking customers by cutting rates ; they cannot 



HOME-MADE BREAD. 



23 



supply good bread at low rates without using 
inferior flour. 

Home-made Bread.— To make good bread 
or rolls, take five potatoes ; peel and cut them 
up, and boil in water enough to cover them ; 
when done, mash them smooth in the water in 
which they were boiled ; when cool, not cold^ 
add a gill of liquid yeast, a dessert-spoonful of 
sugar, a salt-tablespoonful of lard, and a pint of 
flour. Mix together lightly until it is of a pasty, 
sticky consistency ; cover and set it in a warm 
place to rise ; it will rise in two or three hours, 
and should look almost like yeast Stir into 
this three pints of flour and, if necessary, a little 
cold \vater ; the dough should be rather soft, 
and need not be kneaded more than half an 
hour. Set in a moderately warm place for four 
hours ; it is now ready to be shaped into loaves 
and baked ; but it is better to push it down 
from the sides of the bread-pan, and let it rise 
again and again, until the third time, which is 
ample. Knead until smooth, and if too soft, 
add a little more flour. For rolls, roll out and 
cut into rounds. Use the rolling-pin slightly, 
batter, and fold. Baking-pans should be well 
greased. 

Salt is always used in bread-making, not 
only on account of its flavor, which destroys the 



24 MAIZE OR INDIAN CORN. 

insipid, raw taste of the flour, but because it 
makes the dough rise better. It is therefore 
highly important that it should be of th-e best 
quality, as it has an affinity for the kidneys and 
other organs, and acts upon them powerfully. 

As it is the smallest item in the expense of a 
family, no pains should be spared in procuring 
the best in market. 

American manufacturers have not as yet made 
a salt free from foreign flavors and suitable to 
delicate cookery ; its peculiar fishy flavor is ob- 
jectionable, and gives to bread a taste that leads 
the eater thereof to imagine it had been sliced 
with a fish-knife. 

Most of the leading grocers sell an English 
salt that is a very valuable assistant in bread- 
making. 

Maize or Indian Corn is the noblest of 
the cereal grasses, and deserves our liberal pat- 
ronage and constant praise. From it can be 
produced an infinite variety of nutritious food, 
from Tennyson's ** dusky loaf that smelt of 
home" to the simple ** hoe cake" of **Old 
Black Joe. 

To enumerate all of the good things produced 
from corn would make a volume five times the 
size of this little book. Enough has been said 
to practically demonstrate the necessity of our 



CORN HREAl). 



25 



being at all times aware of its excellent qualities, 
if we value health and subsequent happiness. 

In America no national question is of more 
importance than the success or failure of the 
com crop. Upon it depends the success not 
only of large business enterprises, but of busi- 
ness centres. Nearly all of the important do- 
mestic animals that are used as food are fed 
upon it exclusively, and a large percentage of 
the population depends upon it — directly or in- 
directly — for very existence, which is conclusive 
evidence that a failure of this important cereal 
means starvation and bankruptcy to many, 
which the failure of the wheat crop would not 
effect. 

Corn Bread.— Sift half a pound each of com 
meal and flour, add a scant teaspoonful of salt 
and a tablespoonful of wheat baking powder. 
Beat together one ounce of powdered sugar, two 
eggs, and one ounce of butter ; add these to 
the flour ; then gradually add nearly a pint of 
milk, to make a thin batter, and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Corn-meal Custard.— Beat up three eggs ; 
add to them a quart of milk and an ounce each 
of butter and sugar. Mix and add gradually a 
quarter of a pound of very fine corn meal ; flavor 
with nutmeg. Pour into custard cups, and b'.)!i 



26 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 



or Steam for ten minutes ; then put them in the 
oven a moment to brown on top. 

Boston Brown Bread.— Sift together half 
a pound each of rye and wheat flour, one 
pound of corn meal, one heaping teaspoonful of 
salt, a heaping tablespoonful of brown sugar, 
and one of wheat baking powder. Wash, peel, 
and boil two medium-sized potatoes ; rub them 
through a sieve ; thin out the potato with nearly 
a pint of water, and use this to make the batter. 
Pour it into well-greased moulds having covers ; 
set them into hot water to within two inches of 
the top of the moulds, and boil for two hours ; 
then take them out of the water, remove the 
cover, and place them in the oven for twenty 
minutes. 

A Boston brown bread preparation put up by 
the Boston Cereal Manufacturing Company is 
an article of food quite recently introduced, 
which saves much of the difficult details neces- 
sary to make this excellent New England loaf. 

Maize Muffins.— This very latest prepara- 
tion deserves special mention, as being the high- 
est and most scientific product of corn that has 
been introduced for public consideration. It is 
known as shredded maize, and from it a most 
excellent porridge can be made in ten minutes. 
Griddle cakes, sweet puddings, and especially 



GRAHAM MUFFINS. 



27 



breakfast rolls made of it are delightful. Most 
excellent muffins are prepared as follows : Mix 
together one pound of shredded maize, one pint 
of hot milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and one 
ounce of butter ; let it cool, and whisk into it 
three beaten eggs, one ounce of sugar, and two 
teaspoonfuls of wheat baking powder ; mix thor- 
oughly ; half fill the muffin>rings, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

Graham Muffins.— Sift one quart of gra- 
ham flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
heaping tablespoonful of wheat baking powder ; 
add two ounces of butter and two beaten eggs, 
with milk enough to make a thin batter. Mix. 
Half fill the greased muffin-rings, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Breakfast Biscuits.— Sift one quart of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a scant 
tablespoonful of wheat baking powder ; add half 
an ounce of butter ; mix together, and add milk 
enough to make a batter ; roll out the dough 
on a floured board ; dredge it with flour ; cut 
out the biscuits ; place them on a buttered tin, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Milk Bread.— Sift one and a half pounds of 
flour, a teaspoonful of salt, half an ounce of 
powdered sugar, same of melted butter, and two 
tablespoonfuls of wheat baking powder. Sim- 



20 ROLLED-WHEAT BISCUIT. 

mer a pint of milk ; let it cool ; jadd it to the 
flour ; beat it with a plated knife ; shape it into 
loaves. Let stand for half an hour in well- 
greased pans, covered, then bake in a quick 
oven. 

Rolled-wheat Biscuit.— Half a pint each 
of rolled wheat and flour, one coffeespoonful of 
salt, two teaspoonfuls of wheat baking powder, 
one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and one 
teaspoonful of lard or melted butter. Add milk 
enough to make a batter, and bake in small tins 
in a quick oven. 

To Test the Oven.— Throw on the floor of 
the oven a tablespoonful of new flour ; if it takes 
fire or assumes a dark brown color, the temper- 
ature is too high, and the oven must be allowed 
to cool. If the flour remains white after the 
lapse of a few seconds, the temperature is too 
low. When the oven is of the proper tempera- 
ture the flour will turn a brownish yellow and 
look slightly scorched. 



TOAST. 



29 



TOAST. 

Toast is very palatable and digestible when 
properly prepared. Many seem to think that 
they have made toast when they brown the out- 
side of a slice of bread. Have they ? 

The object in making toast is to evaporate all 
moisture from the bread, and holding a slice 
over the fire to singe does not accomplish this ; 
it only warms the moisture, making the inside 
of the bread doughy and decidedly indigestible. 
The true way of preparing it is to cut the bread 
into slices a quarter of an inch thick, trim off 
all crust, put the slices in a pan or plate, place 
them in the oven — which must not be too hot — 
take them out when a delicate brown, and butter 
at once. 

For my own use I dry all home-made bread 
in this manner. 

Dry Toast should be served within the folds 
of a napkin if you wish to keep it hot ; toast- 
racks allow the heat to escape, and they are not 
recommended. 

Dip Toast.— Prepare the toast as above 
directed ; dip the edges into hot water quickly, 
and butter at once. This is also called water 
toast. 



MILK TOAST. 



Milk Toast.— Wet the pan to be used with 
cold water, which prevents burning. Melt an 
ounce of floured butter ; whisk into it a pint of 
hot milk ; add a little salt ; simmer. Prepare 
four slices of toast ; put them in a deep dish 
one at a tinoe ; pour a little of the milk over 
each, and over the last one pour the remainder 
of the milk. 

Anchovy Toast.—The best way to prepare 
this appetizing dish is as follows : Toast the 
bread and trim it neatly, and place it near the 
range to keep warm ; next prepare a ** dip," as 
for ordinary cream toast ; spread a thin layer of 
anchovy paste on each slice of bread; place in 
a hot, deep dish ; pour the prepared cream over 
them, and serve. 

Clam Toast.—Chop up two dozen small 
clams into fine pieces ; simmer for thirty min- 
utes in hot water enough to cover them. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs ; add a little cayenne 
and a gill of warmed milk ; dissolve half a tea- 
tpoonful of flour in a little cold milk ; simmer 
all together ; pour over buttered toast, and 
serve. 

Marrow-bone Toast.— Procure two beef 
shin-bones about six to eight inches long ; cover 
them with dough, and wrap them in muslin ; 
pour hot water enough to cover them, and boil 



OYSTER TOAST. 3 I 

for an hour and a half. Remove cloth and 
dough ; shake or draw out the marrow with a 
long-handled fork upon slices of hot toast 
Add salt, cayenne, and, if convenient, a little 
chopped celery, and serve. 

Oyster Toast.— Select fifteen plump oys- 
ters ; chop them fine, and add salt, pepper, and 
a suspicion of nutmeg. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with a gill of cream ; whisk this into 
the simmering oysters. When set, pour the 
whole over slices of buttered toast 

Salmon Toast.— It very often occurs that a 
can of salmon is not all used at a meal, and yet 
there is not quite enough for another meal with- 
out other dishes or ingredients added to it. 
Should this occur, mince the salmon, heat, and 
season it and serve it on toast A poached 
egg added to it is quite acceptable. 

Tongue Toast. -A very nice dish is pre- 
pared from cold boiled or potted tongue. Slice 
the tongue, and cut each slice into small, fine 
pieces ; heat it in a pan with a little butter. To 
prevent burning, moisten with warm water or 
clear soup ; add salt and pepper ; stir into it 
two beaten eggs. When set, arrange neatly on 
toast 

Dainty bits of roast game, fowl, etc. , minced, 
warmed over, and served on toast are excellent, 



TO TEST KG OS. 



and show a way o£ using good material that 
would otherwise be \vasted. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 

To Test Eggs— Dissolve an ounce of salt 
in ten ounces of water ; add the eggs. Good 
ones will sink, indifferent eggs will swim, and 
bad eggs will float, even in pure water. 

Fresh eggs are more transparent in the centre. 

Old eggs are transparent at the top. 

Eggs may be kept a long time by covering 
them with beeswax dissolved in warm olive or 
cotton-seed oil. Use one third wax to two 
thirds oil. 

Baked Eggs.— Mince half a pound of lean 
boiled ham, add an equal quantity of cracker 
crumbs. IVIoisten and spread the mixture over 
a platter ; scoop out four round holes as large 
as an egg, and drop an egg from the shell into 
each hole ; season with salt, cayenne, and but- 
ter ; put the dish in the oven, and serve when 
the eggs are cooked. 

The crumbs should be moist enough to take 
almost a crust when baked. 

Omelets.--As a rule, an omelet is a whole- 



OMK LF.TS 



some and inexpensive dish, yet one in the prep- 
aration of which cooks frequently fail, owing to 
carelessness of detail. With a little attention 
the housewife can easily become the perfect cook 
in tliis branch, as well as others. 

The flavoring and the ingredients used may 
be varied indefinitely ; but the principle is 
always the same. In making an omelet care 
should be taken that the omelet pan is hot and 
dry. To insure this, put a small quantity of 
lard into the pan ; let it simmer a few minutes, 
and remove it ; wipe the pan dry with a towel, 
and put in a little fresh lard, in which the omelet 
may be fried. Care should be taken that the 
lard does not burn, as it would spoil the color 
of the omelet. 

It is better to make two or three small ome- 
lets than one very large one, as the latter cannot 
be well handled by a novice. 

The omelet made of three eggs is the one 
recommended for beginners. Break the eggs 
separately ; put them into a bowl, and whisk 
them thoroughly with a fork. (The longer they 
are beaten, the lighter will be the omelet. ) Add 
a teaspoonful of milk, and beat up with the 
eggs ; beat until the last moment before pour- 
ing into the pan, which should be over a hot 
fire. As soon as the omelet sets, remove the 




34 



CHEESE OMELET. 



pan from the hottest part of the lire, slip a knife 
under it to prevent sticking to the pan ; when 
the centre is almost firm, slant the pan ; work 
the omelet in shape to fold easily and neatly ; 
and, when slightly browned, hold a platter 
against the edge of the pan, and deftly turn it 
out upon the hot dish. 

Salt mixed with the eggs prevents them from 
rising, and when used the omelet will look 
flabby ; yet without salt it will taste insipid. 
Add a little salt to it just before folding it and 
turning out on the dish. 

Cheese Omelet.— Beat up the eggs and add 
to them a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; add a little more cheese before folding, 
and turn out on a hot dish. Grate a little 
cheese over it before serving. 

Omelet with Herbs— Beat up three eggs 
and add to them a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, mixed with a few chives. Pour into the 
pan, and before folding season with salt and 
pepper ; fold, and turn out on a hot dish. 

Onion Omelet.— Cut up a small Spanish 
onion ; ixy it a light brown ; before folding the 
omelet add the onion, and turn out on a hot 
dish. 

Oyster Omelet.— Stew six oysters in their 
own liquor for five minutes ; remove the oysters. 



OMELET AU RHITM. 



35 



and thicken the liquid with a walnut of butter 
rolled in flour ; season with salt and cayenne ; 
whisk this to a cream. Chop the oysters, and 
add them to the sauce ; simmer until the sauce 
thickens. Beat up four eggs lightly, and add a 
tablespoonful of cream ; turn out into a hot 
pan, and fry a light gold color. Before folding 
the omelet entirely, place the oysters with part 
of the sauce within, and turn it over on a hot 
dish. The remainder of the sauce should be 
poured round it. 

Omelet au Rhum.— Prepare an omelet as 
has been directed, fold it, and turn out on a 
hot dish ; dust a liberal quantity of powdered 
sugar over it, and singe the sugar into neat 
stripes with a hot iron rod, heated on the coals. 
Pour a wine-glassful of warmed Jamaica rum 
around it, and when on the table set fire to it. 
With a tablespoon dash the burning rum over 
the omelet, blow out the fire, and serve. 

Spanish Omelet.— Chop up half of a sweet 
Spanish pepper ; peel and cut up a large toma- 
to ; cut two ounces of ham into dice ; mince 
thr^e button mushrooms and half an onion with 
a clove of garlic ; season with salt, cayenne, and 
capers. Put the onion and ham in a pan, and 
fry ; add the other ingredients, and simmer 
until a thick pulp ; add this to an omelet just 




36 



SWEET OMELET. 



before folding it and turning out on a dish. 
Pour a well-made tomato sauce round it, and 
serve. 

The ingredients may be varied to suite the 
taste. 

Sweet Omelet.— Beat up the eggs as usual, 
and, just before it is folded in the pan, add a 
heaping tablespoonful of jelly, preserves, or 
other ingredients that fancy may suggest. 



POTATOES. 

Potatoes.— Take a sound-looking potato of 
any variety ; pay but little attention to its out- 
ward appearance ; cut or break it in two, cross- 
wise, and examine the cut surface. If it appears 
watery to such a degree that a slight pressure 
would cause water to fall off in drops, reject it, 
as it would be of little use for the table. A good 
potato should be of a light cream-color, and 
when rubbed together a white froth should ap- 
pear round the edges and surface of the cut, 
which indicates the presence of starch. The 
more starch in the potato, the more it will froth ; 
consequently the more froth on the potato the 
better it will be when cooked. The strength of 



IIOII.ED POTATOKS. 



37 



its starchy properties may be tested by releasing 
the hold of one end, and if it clings to the 
other, the potato is a good one. These are the 
general principles followed by potato- buyers, 
and they are usually to be fully relied upon. 
About one seventh part of the potato is nutri- 
tious, and this is chiefly farinaceous, and is ac- 
companied by no inconsiderable portion of saline 
matter, more especially of potassa, which renders 
it highly antiscorbutic, and a powerful corrective 
of the grossness of animal food. When form- 
ing part of a mixed diet, no substance is more 
wholesome than the potato. Even the wild 
potato found in the Yellowstone Country is 
thought one of the best of edible wild roots. 

Boiled Potatoes.— To retain the highest 
amount of nourishment, potatoes should be 
boiled with their skins on. When so treated, 
they are twice as rich in potassa salts as those 
which have first been peeled. It is a good plan 
to place them in the oven or on top of the 
range after boiling them, thereby allowing all 
surplus moisture to escape. Before sending to 
table they should be peeled, and, if convenient, 
thoroughly mashed, as they are more easily 
digested, and when they are lumpy or watery 
they escape proper mastication, and in this way 
cause serious derangement of the system. Un- 



38 



LYONNAISE POTATOES. 



der no circumstances allow the aged, dyspeptic, 
or those in delicate health to eat them except 
when mashed. The so-called potato * * with a 
bone in it, * * a favorite dish of the Irish peasant, 
is a potato only half cooked, being raw in the 
centre ; and a more indigestible thing cannot 
well be imagined. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes.— The same as sau- 
teed, except that a little onion is fried brown 
and the potato then added. 

Potatoes au Coohon.— Slice two hot, 
mealy potatoes ; cut the slices into squares ; 
put them in a saucepan, and add scalded cream 
enough to cover them, salt, and white pepper. 
Cut into very small pieces half an ounce of fat, 
boiled, salt pork ; add a tablespoonful to the 
potato ; simmer until thoroughly blended to- 
gether ; pour the contents of the dish into a 
small au graiin dish (or vegetable baker) ; grate 
a little Parmesan cheese over it ; add a small bit 
of butter ; place in the oven a moment to 
brown, and serve in the same dish. 

Potatoes au G-ratin.— Nearly fill \ht graiin 
pan with hot boiled potatoes, cut into small 
pieces ; cover with milk ; strew over them grated 
cheese or part cheese and grated crumbs ; add a 
litde butter, and bake brown in a quick oven. 

Potatoes Saut^ed are cold boiled potatoes 



ARTICHOKES (kRENCh). 



39 



cut into small slices and slightly browned in a 
frying-pan, shaped, and turned out on a hot 
dish (as you would an omelet), and seasoned 
with parsley, salt, and pepper. 



DAINTY DISHES. 

Artichokes (French).— Trim the ends ; re- 
move the choke, and quarter each artichoke ; 
pour boiling water over them, and drain. Put 
them in a stewpan, and to each artichoke add a 
gill of white wine and one of clear soup ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a little lemon-peel ; when 
done, remove the artichoke, and boil the sauce 
down. Cream an ounce of butter ; add half a 
teaspoonful of flour, and by degrees add the 
sauce ; simmer until thick, and send to table 
with the artichokes. 

Artichokes (French), Fried.— Wash and 
cut away the leaves of two artichokes ; remove 
the inside choke ; cut the bottoms into neat 
pieces, and cover them with water containing 
one third vinegar. Drain ; season with salt 
and pepper ; dip them in beaten egg ; roll them 
in fine cracker dust, and fry in plenty of hot 
fat 



40 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 



Chicken Croquettes.— Cut up the white 
meat of one cold boiled chicken, and pound it 
to a paste with a large boiled sweetbread, freed 
from sinews ; add salt and pepper. Beat up 
one egg with a teaspoonful of flour and a wine- 
glassful of rich cream. Mix all together ; put 
it in a pan, and simmer just enough to absorb 
part of the moisture, stirring all the time ; turn 
it out on a flat dish, and place in ice-box to be- 
come cold and firm ; then roll it into small neat 
cones ; dip them in beaten eggs ; roll in finely 
powdered bread crumbs ; drop them in boiling 
fat, and fry a delicate brown. Handle them 
carefully. 

Some add a little nutmeg, but I have found 
the above recipe more satisfactory without it, 
especially among my Philadelphia patrons. 

Chicken, Devilled.— Prepare a mixture of 
mustard, pepper, and salt, moistened with a little 
oil. Put a small quantity of oil in a frying- 
pan ; add just onion enough to give it flavor, 
and toss the chicken about in this a moment. 
Remove ; rub or brush the moisture over the 
chicken, and broil. Serve with a sharp, pun- 
gent sauce, made of drawn butter, lemon juice, 
mustard, and chopped capers. 

Chicken, Fried.— Cut up half an onion, 
and fry it brown in a little butter. Divide two 



CRABS, SOFT-SHELL. 



41 



ounces of butter into little balls ; roll them in 
flour ; add to the onion, and fry the breast oi 
the chicken in this, as well as the legs and side- 
bones, to a delicate brown. Take them out, 
and add to the sauce a few cut-up mushrooms, 
a gill of claret, salt, pepper, and a piece of cut 
sugar ; simmer slowly ; pour over the chicken 
and serve. 

The Southern way of frying chicken is as fol- 
lows : Slice and cut into small dice half a pound 
of salt pork ; flour the chicken, and fry in the 
pork fat ; dissolve a heaping tablespoonful of 
flour with a little cold milk ; add to it gradually 
half a pint of boiled milk that has been seasoned 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; simmer until 
thick ; arrange the chicken on a hot dish» and 
pour the sauce round it Toast may be placed 
under the chicken, if desired. 

Crabs, Soft-shell.— These should be cooked 
as soon as possible after being caught, as their 
flavor rapidly deteriorates after being exposed to 
the air. Select crabs as lively as possible ; re- 
move the feathery substance under the pointed 
sides of the shells ; rinse them in cold water ; 
drain ; season with salt and pepper ; dredge 
them in flour, and fry in hot fat. 

Many serve them rolled in eggs and cracker 
dust ; but thus they are not as good. 



42 FILET OF SOLE, SAUCE TART ARE. 

Filet of Sole, Sauce Tartare.- Remove 
the head, fins, tail, and skin from a pnedium- 
sized flounder ; lay the fish flat on the table, 
and with a sharp knife make a deep cut through 
to the back-bone the whole length of the fish. 
Cut the upper side lengthwise from the bone ; 
now remove the bone from the lower part, and 
cut the fish into pieces crosswise, each piece to 
be about two inches in width. Season each 
piece ; roll it up and tie it with strong thread ; 
dredge them in flour, and fry in plenty of hot 
fat (they may be dipped in egg batter and rolled 
in bread crumb if liked) ; remove the thread ; 
arrange them neatly on a hot dish ; garnish with 
parsley, and send to table with sauce iariare 
(which see). 

Hamburg Steak, Sauce Piquante.— Se- 
lect a thick rump steak, and with a stiff-backed 
kitchen knife scrape away the lean meat from 
the sinews. Season the meat with salt and cay- 
enne, and shape it into a round form slightly 
flattened on top. Fry a minced onion brown in 
butter ; cook the steak in this, ori both sides, 
and serve with the following sauce : put into the 
same saucepan half a pint of strong soup stock, 
half a teaspoonful of browned flour, three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, a tablespoonful of chopped 
eschalot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half 



HOMINY FRITTERS. 



43 



a saltspoonful of black pepper, and a little salt 
Simmer, strain, and serve. 

Many like a Hamburg steak rare, while others 
prefer it well done ; others there are who think 
they like it rare, highly seasoned with onion and 
other pungent seasoning. 

Hominy Fritters.— Take one pint of boiled 
hominy, one gill of cream, two tablespoonfuls 
of corn-starch, two eggs, half a teaspoonful of 
baking powder, a saltspoonful of salt ; mix to a 
batter. If- too stiff, add a little more cream. 
Drop the batter in large spoonfuls into hot fat, 
and fry brown. 

Kidney, Saut^ed.— Cut up half an onion ; 
brown it in a pan with an ounce of butter. 
Slice a calf's kidneys ; toss about over a slow 
fire in the pan ; add salt and pepper, a pint of 
red or white wine, and one piece of cut sugar. 
Simmer until tender ; dissolve a teaspoonful oi 
flour in cold \vater ; add to the dish. Toast a 
few slices of bread ; trim them neatly ; place 
them on a dish ; pour the kidneys over them, 
and serve. 

A few mushrooms cut up and strewn over the 
dish will be appreciated by many. 

Lamb Chops with French Peas.— 
Dainty lamb chops require but a moment's 
cooking, and, unless care be taken, will dry 



44 MINCED TURKEY WITH POACHED EGGS. 

quickly over the fire ; they should be turned 
repeatedly, and, when done, seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, and the sweetest of sweet butter. 

Arrange a mound of peas in the centre of a 
dish ; place the chops around this, and serve. 
The peas should be cooked as follows : Open a 
small can of imported peas ; drain off the 
liquid ; melt an ounce of butter in a pan, and 
when it creams, add the peas : shake the pan to 
prevent burning ; add pepper and salt When 
the peas are heated through they require no 
longer cooking, and should be served at once. 

The great mistake made by many cooks in 
cooking canned peas is that they allow them to 
remain too long on the fire, which spoils them, 
as they are already cooked, and simply require 
heating. 

Minced Turkey with Poached Eggs.— 

A very appetizing dish is made of cold boiled or 
roast turkey. Trim off all skin and most of the 
fat, especially on the back ; pick out the little 
tid-bits in the recesses ; cut off all that will not 
look neat when sliced cold. Season with salt 
and pepper, and a tablespoonful or two of 
minced celery ; chop up the meat ; put it in a 
pan with a little butter or turkey fat, to prevent 
burning, and just a suspicion of onion ; moisten 
with a little broth made from the turkey bones. 



MUSHROOMS OX TOAST. 



45 



Poach one or two eggs for each person ; arrange 
the minced meat neatly on slices of buttered 
toast ; place the egg on top, and serve. 

The above mode of preparing a breakfeist dish 
is not only economical, but is one of the most 
delightful dishes that can be produced ; almost 
any kind of boiled or roast meat, poultry, or 
game can be utilized in this way. 

Mushrooms on Toast.— Peel a quart of 
mushrooms ; cut off a little of the root end ; 
now take half a pound of round steak, and cut 
it up fine and fry it in a jxm with a little butter, 
to extract the juice, which, being done, remove 
the pieces of steak. When the gravy is very hot 
add the mushrooms ; toss them about for a mo- 
ment, and pour the contents of the pan on but- 
tered toast ; season with salt and cayenne. 
Some add a little sherry to the dish before re- 
moving from the range. 

Mutton Chops with Fried Tomatoes 
and Sauce.— Select four nice rib chops ; have 
them trimmed neatly by the dealer ; take hold 
of the end of the rib, and dip the chops a mo- 
ment in hot fat, in which you are to fry them ; 
now roll them in fine cracker crumbs, and shake 
off the surplus ; dip them in egg, again in the 
crumbs, and drop them into boiling fat. Re- 
move when brown. 



46 



FRIED TOMATOES. 



Fried Tomatoes —Select three smooth, 
medium-sized, well-filled tomatoes ; cut into 
slices half an inch thick ; dredge them with 
flour or roll in egg and crumbs, and fry (or, 
rather, sautee) in a small quantity of hot fat, 
turning and cooking both sides evenly. Have 
prepared the following sauce : Add to a pint of 
milk a tablespoonful of flour, one beaten egg, 
salt, pepper, and a very little mace. Cream an 
ounce of butter ; whisk into it the milk, and let 
it simmer until it thickens ; pour the sauce on 
a hot side dish ; arrange the tomatoes in the 
centre, and add the chops opposite each other, 
and serve. 

Plain broiled or papered chops may be served 
in this way. 

Oysters, Broiled.— Rub the bars of a wire 
broiler with a little sweet butter ; dry twelve 
large, plump oysters in a napkin, and place 
them on the broiler ; brush a little butter over 
them, and broil over a fire free from flame and 
smoke. When done on both sides, arrange 
them neatly on toast ; pour a little well -seasoned 
melted butter over them, and serve. 

Do not bread-crumb oysters intended for 
broiling. 

Pork and Beans.— To call this homely 
Yankee dish a ** dainty'' may surprise many ; 



PORK AND BEANS. 



47 



but, when properly prepared, it may well be 
called so. 

Wash a quart of small white beans in cold 
water ; pick them over while in the water ; re- 
ject all imperfect beans ; drain ; cover with fresh 
cold water, and let them soak over night. Next 
morning change the water twice ; then put them 
in a large iron pot ; add a liberal quantity of 
cold water, and simmer them slowly for four 
hours. Pour them into a colander carefully to 
drain. Heat an old-fashioned beanpot with hot 
water, and wipe it dry ; ' place a small piece of 
pork in the pot, and add the beans to within two 
inches of the top ; now place a small piece of 
pork (properly scored on its rind) on the beans. 
Dissolve a tablespoonful of black molasses in a 
pint of warm water ; add half a teaspoonful ot 
salt and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, 
and pour this over the beans ; place the pot in 
a moderate oven, and bake for three hours, at 
the end of which time take them out, and 
add a little more warm water, to prevent 
them from becoming too dry. Bake for three 
hours longer, and serve with hot Boston brown 
bread. 

The old-fashioned manner of preparing this 
dish was to place all the pork on top, the result 
being that the first few spoonfuls of beans con- 



48 



REED BIRDS. 



tained all the pork fat, while the remainder had 
not been seasoned by it 

The above recipe distributes the pork fat 
evenly through the beans, as it is lighter than 
water, and naturally rises ; and for this reason 
only half the usual quantity of pork is required 
to produce the desired result 

Reed Birds.— The average French cook 
cannot understand why these *' lumps of sweet- 
ness' ' do not require long cooking and elaborate 
sauces to make them palatable, and these cooks 
invariably spoil them. Pluck and draw the 
birds, leaving the heads on. Put into a frying- 
pan an ounce of sweet butter ; when hot, add 
six birds ; toss them about to cook evenly ; add 
a little salt and pepper ; let them remain over 
the fire for about three minutes, and serve on a 
hot dish. 

To cook them in large quantities, as they are 
prepared by the gunners at their club-houses 
along the Delaware, proceed as follows : Clean 
them properly : arrange them in a baking-tin ; 
add a liberal quantity of butter, salt, and pep- 
per ; put the pan in the oven. At the end of 
five minutes turn them with a long-handled 
spoon, let them cook five minutes longer, and 
serve. 

An excellent way to serve them at late break- 



SALT CODFISH, BROILED. 



49 



^t-parties is as follows : Pluck and draw the 
birds, and remove their heads. Take a few 
large long potatoes ; cut them in two cross- 
wise ; scrape out part of the inside ; place a 
bird in each half of potato ; press the halves to- 
gether, tie them with twine, and bake until the 
potatoes are done. Remove the common twine 
and tie them up again with narrow tape or rib- 
bon. Send to table on a napkin. 

Salt Codfish, Broiled.— Cut from a medi- 



um-sized salt codfish three pieces about two ) 
inches square ; split each piece in two, and soak , 
in water over night ; change the water two or 
three times. Next morning rinse the pieces in 
fresh cold water, and drain and dry in a napkin ; i 
brush a little butter over each, and broil. : 
When done, pour over them melted butter sea- 
soned with pepper and lemon juice. - 

Sardines, Broiled.— Open a can of sar- 
dines, and remove the fish without breaking 
them ; scrape off the skin and split them, if 
large ; put them between a double wire broiler, 
and broil both sides nicely. Squeeze a little 
lemon and orange juice over them before serv- 
ing. 

Sauce Tartare.— Chop together one small 
pickle, a dozen capers, and a few sprigs of pars- 
ley and a very small piece of onion ; to these 




50 



SAUSAGES. 



add half a pint of Mayonnaise and a teaspoonful 
of French mustard. 

Sausages.— A disagreeable feature of sau- 
sages, when cooked in the ordinary manner, is 
that the spattering fat covers the range, and the 
ascending smoke pervades the whole house. 
This may be avoided by putting them in a bak- 
ing-pan and cooking them in the oven. Ten 
minutes is sufficient to cook a pound of country 
sausages, provided the oven be quite hot. They 
are excellent when split in two and broiled ; 
serve hot or cold apple sauce with them. Apple 
fritters also are acceptable with sausages. 

Smelts, Broiled.— Clean thoroughly six 
medium-sized smelts ; split them down the 
back ; rub a little oil over them ; place them 
on a double broiler, and broil. When done, 
serve with sauce tariare (which see). 

Smelts, Fried. — Thoroughly clean the 
smelts, leaving the heads on ; dip them in 
beaten egg ; roll them in fine cracker dust, and 
fry in very hot fat ; garnish with parsley and 
lemons, quartered, and send to table with sauce 
iariare (which see). 

Squabs are very nice broiled, but are at 
their best served as follows ; — Select a pair of 
plump birds ; clean them, cut off the legs, and 
remove the heads without breaking or tearing 



STEAK, tenderloin; sauce uearnaise. 51 

the neck skin ; insert the forefinger in it, and 
separate the skin over the breast from the flesh ; 
fill this with a nicely-seasoned bread stuffing, and 
^ten the loose end of the neck to the back. 
Place a thin wide slice of bacon over the breast, 
and -fasten the ends with wooden toothpicks ; 
put them in a pan ; dredge with a little flour, 
and bake to a delicate brown ; serve with fresh 
green peas. 

Spring chicken may be treated in the same way. 
Steak, Tenderloin ; Sauoe Beamaise.— 

Cut a thick steak off the large end of a beef ten- 
derloin ; flatten it out a little ; rub olive-oil or 
butter over it, and broil over a charcoal fire ; 
place it on a hot dish, add a little pepper and 
salt, and serve with sauce Beamaise. 

Sauce BiBamaise.-— Reduce a gallon of 
strong, clear soup to a quart by constant boiling. 
Beat Tip the yolks of four eggs ; pour them into 
a buttered saucepan, and add gradually — whisk- 
ing all the time — the reduced soup, a table- 
spoonful of strong garlic vinegar (or, if preferred, 
plain vinegar, and the expressed juice of garlic or 
shallots), pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. 
Stir with a wooden spoon. 

Care must be exercised not to add the soup 
while hot to the eggs, or it will curdle, and yet 
do not add it cold. 



52 STEAK, SIRLOIN ; SAUCE BOROELAISE. 

Steak, Sirloin ; Sauce Bordelaise—Se- 
lect a steak cut horn the best part of the sirloin ; 
trim it neatly ; rub a little oil over it, and broil 
over a charcoal fire ; serve with the following 
sauce : 

Sauce Bordelaise is easiest made as fol- 
lows : Chop up one medium onion, or, better 
still, two shallots ; fry them in butter until 
brown ; add a pint of strong clear soup or beef 
gravy, half a pint of claret or white wine, salt, 
pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; 
simmer, and if not quite thick enough add a 
little browned flour. 

Tomato Sauce— Open a can of Baldwin 
tomatoes, which contain but little liquid ; sim- 
mer them gently for three quarters of an hour ; 
season with salt, cayenne, a clove of garlic, 
bruised, and very little mace. Press them 
through a fine sieve ; put the pulp in a clean, 
hot stewpan, with a little butter ; stir to prevent 
burning, and, when quite thick, serve. 

A most excellent tomato sauce is made of a 
brilliant red ketchup, known to dealers under 
the name of ** Connoisseur Ketchup." Take 
half a pint of it ; heat it gently ; add a gill of 
rich soup-stock and a teaspoonful of flour dis- 
solved in a little cold water ; simmer until it 
thickens, and serve. 



TRIPE WITH OYSTERS. 



53 



Ordinary ketchups do not have the proper 
color, and are likely to sour when heated. 

Tripe with Oysters.— Tripe, when prop- 
erly prepared by a simple process, is very nutri- 
tious and easily digested. 

Cut up half a pound of well-washed tripe ; 
simmer for three quarters of an hour in water 
slightly salted ; take out the tripe ; add to the 
broth a little butter rolled in flour, salt, and pep- 
per ; add a little more flour if not thick enough. 
Return the tripe and a dozen oysters ; simmer 
for a few minutes longer, and serve. 

Tripe Lyonnaise.— Cut up half a pound of 
cold boiled tripe into neat squares. Put two 
ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of chopped 
onion in a pan, and fry to a delicate brown ; 
add the tripe, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
one of strong vinegar, salt, and cayenne ; stir 
the pan to prevent burning. When done, cover 
the bottom of a hot dish with tomato sauce, add 
the contents of the pan to it, and serve. 

Veal Cutlet, Sauce Robert.— Select two 
medium-sized veal steaks, or cut one large one 
in two ; dip in beaten egg ; roll in bread 
crumbs, and fry very well done in the hottest of 
hot fat ; serve with sauce Robert ^ made as fol- 
lows ; — Fry a small onion brown ; add to it a gill 
each of clear soup and white wine ; simmer until 



54 VEAL CUTLET, SAUCE ROBERT. 

brown ; strain ; return to the pan, and add a 
teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoon- 
ful of browned flour, and a tablespoonful of 
French mustard. 

Cutlets or veal chops, broiled, may also be 
served with this sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND DAINTY 
DESSERTS 



CONTENTS. 



INTRODUCTORY, 7 

MISCELLANEOUS DAINTY DES- 
SERTS, .... 

After-Dinner CroOtons, . 9 

Almond Cake, . . .9 

Angel Cake^ . . .10 

Apricot Tarts, . . .10 

Biscuit Glace, . . . 10 

Blanc Mange, . . .11 

Brioche (FRENCFi Paste) . 11 

Cocoanut Cake, . . .12 

Deviled Almonds, . . 12 

Deviled Chestnuts, . . .13 

Dominoes, . . . • '3 

Eclairs, . . . .13 

Fresh Pear Tart, . . 14 

Gateau St. Honorb, . .15 

Lemon Water Ice, . . 15 

Macaroons, . . .16 

Maids of Honor, . ' . .16 

Orange Water Ice, . . .17 

Rice Souffle, . . • ^7 



4 CONTENTS. 

PAGB 

Rhubarb Tarts, » . .17 

Sponge Cake, . . . .18 

Sponge Drops, . . .18 

Velvet Cream, . . ,19 

Vanilla Ice Cream, . . 19 

VARIOUS FRUIT DESSERTS. 

Apple Charlotte, . . .19 

Apricots with Rice, . . 20 

Banana Charlotte, . . .20 

Banana Fritters, . . ,20 

Blackberry Short-Cake, . .21 

Fresh Pineapples in Jelly, . 21 

Frozen Bananas, . . .21 

Frozen Peaches, . . .22 

Orange-Cocoanut Salad, . . 22 

Orange Salad, . . .22 

Orange Sponge, . . .23 

Peaches a la Conde, . . 23 

Peaches a la Suedoise, . . 23 

Peach Fritters, . . .24 

Peach Meringue, . . .24 

Peach Short-Cake, . . 25 

Pineapple Fritters, . . .25 

Pineapple Salad, . 25 

Plum Salad, . . - .26 

Raspberry Short-cake, . . 26 

Salad of Mixed Fruits, , .27 



CONTKNTS. 5 

PAUB 

Sliced Pears, . . .27 

Strawberry Charlotte, . 27 
Strawberry Short-Cake, . . 28 



Velvet Cream, with Strawberries, 29 
CUSTARDS AND OMELETS AS 



DESSERTS. 

Cold Custard, . . .29 

Cold Rick Custard, . .29 

Meringue Custard Tartlets, . 30 

Omelet Souffle, . . .31 

Omelet with Jelly, . 31 

Rum Omelet, . . .32 

Tapioca Custard, . . 34 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple-Manioca Pudding, , . 34 

Batter Pudding, . • • 35 

Boiled Pudding, . .35 
Boiled Rice Dumplings, Custard 

Sauce, .... 35 

Bread-and-Butter Pudding, . 36 

Bread-and-Fruit Pudding, . 37 

Bread Pudding, . . .37 

Carrot Pudding, . . -37 

Chocolate Pudding, . . 38 

Cold Apple Pudding, . 38 

Cold Cabinet Pudding, . . 39 

Cold Marquise Pudding, , 40 



6 CONTENTS. 

PAGR 

Cold Plum Pudding, . . 40 

Cold Rice Pudding, . . 41 

Cold Scotch Pudding, . . 41 

Green Apple Pudding, . . 42 

Indian Pudding, . . .42 

Lemon Pudding, . . .42 

Manioca Pudding, . . .43 

Meringue Pudding, . • . 43 

Minute Pudding, . . .44 

Plum Pudding, . .44 

Pineapple Cabinet Pudding, . 45 

Rice a l'Imperatrice, . . 45 

Rice Pudding, . . .46 

Spanish Apple Pudding, . . 46 

Spanish Fruit Pudding, . . 47 
Spanish Pineapple Pudding, . 47 

Sponge Pudding, . . .47 

Steamed Peach Pudding, . 48 
Tapioca Pudding, with Peaches, . 48 

Vanilla Sauce, . . .48 

PIES. 

Remarks on Pies, . . .49 

Pie Crust, . . .49 

Puff Paste, . . . .50 

Home-Made Apple Pie, . . 51 

Mince Pie, . . , .52 



INTRODUCTORY. 



Quite a revolution has been created in the 
dessert of the American dinner-table. The 
time >vas when the array of sweets, creams, and 
ices would occupy half the menu of a private 
dinner party, and the sight of these to guests 
already satisfied with good things was anything 
but agreeable. Happily these displays are seen- 
no more in good society, for none but Mrs. 
Moneybags from the backwoods would think of 
presenting more than one or two choice sweets 
to her guests. 

For the daily dinner nothing can be more ac- 
ceptable than sweets combined with fruits, small 
light puddings, and ethereal trifles, such as 
souffl/s, whipped creams, etc. While many of 
these recipes are intended to supply this want, 
a few there are which will be found somewhat 
elaborate, and are intended for special occasions. 

Certain recipes given here might appear with 
equal propriety under either of several of the 
various general divisions of this book, but as an 
alphabetical index of each division is given, no 
confusion should occur. 




i 
I 

i 




MISCELLANEOUS DAINTY DESSERTS. 



After-dinner CrotJtons.— The hard wziet 
crackers being expensive in comparison with 
other crackers, I have adopted the crispy croU- 
ions as a substitute, and find them very accept- 
able. Cut sandwich-bread into slices one- quar- 
ter of an inch thick ; cut each slice into four 
small triangles ; dry them in the oven slowly 
until they assume a delicate brownish tint, then 
serve, either hot or cold. A nice ^vay to serve 
them is to spread a paste of part butter and part 
rich, creamy cheese, to which may be added a 
very little minced parsley. 

Almond Cake.— Blanch and pound in a 
mortar eight ounces of sweet and one ounce of 
bitter almonds ; add a few drops of rose-water, 
or white of egg every few minutes, to prevent 
oiling ; add six tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar and 
eight beaten eggs ; sift in six tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and work it thoroughly with the mixture. 
Gradually add a quarter of a pound of creamed 
butter ; beat the mixture constantly while pre- 
paring the cake, or it will be heavy. Put a 




TO 



ANGEL CAKE. 



buttered paper inside of a buttered tin, pour in 
the mixture, and bake in a quick oven ; cover 
the cake with paper if the oven is too hot. 

Angel Cake<— This popular cake was invented 
by a St Louis baker, who kept the formula a 
secret a long time. A discharged employee 
finally made it known. To four ounces of sifted 
flour add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; 
rub these through the sieve four or five times. 
Beat the whites of a dozen eggs until very stiff ; 
add to them gradually three-quarters of a pound 
of granulated sugar, and beat thoroughly while 
so doing ; flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract ; add the flour to the egg foam quickly 
and lightly. Line the funnel cake- pan with un- 
greased paper, pour in the mixture and bake 
fifty minutes. When done, loosen the edges 
and remove from the pan at once. Cut into 
slices and served with a custard sauce, it forms 
an agreeable pudding. 

Apricot Taxis.— Prepare the tart shells as in 
recipe for Rhubarb Tarts (which see). Peel 
and remove the stones from a quart of ripe apri- 
cots, put them in the shells, dredge them with 
sugar, and serve. When the fruit is hard or 
unripe, boil it in a syrup made of one pint of 
water and one pound of sugar. 

Biscuit Glacd.— Fancy paper cases, filled 



BLANC MANGE. 



It 



with a variety of ice-creams, water-ices, velvet 
creams, etc., are so called. Small families are 
recommended to purchase them already pre- 
{)ared from dealers in sweets and ices, but they 
are easily prepared. Half fill the cases with ice- 
cream or water-ice, and add a layer of Charlotte 
russe or velvet cream ; then put them in a 
covered receptacle, surrounded with ice and salt^ 
until wanted. A top layer of beaten white of 
egg is sometimes added just before serving, and 
a shovelful of hot coals held over them a moment 
will color the egg nicely. 

Blanc Mange.— Blanch two bitter almonds 
with two ounces of sweet almonds, pound them 
to a paste, and by degrees add a pint of cold 
water. Let stand uniii settled. Strain off the 
almond milk. Put into a pint of milk .five 
ounces of loaf sugar, three inches of vanilla bean, 
and boil in an enameled saucepan : stir until the 
sugar is dissolved ; then add an ounce of well- 
soaked isinglass ; strain into a basin, add the 
milk of almond and a gill of cream. Remove 
the vanilla. When cold pour the mixture into 
individual moulds, and place in the ice-box until 
wanted. 

Brioche (French Paste). — Mix together 
eight ounces of sifted flour and half a pint of 
brewers* yeast, with lukewarm milk enough to 



12 



COCOANUT CAKE. 



make a thick batter. Cover, set near the range 
and allow it to rise until twice its original size. 

Sift together one ounce of salt and a pound 
and a half of flour ; add an ounce of powdered 
sugar ; cut up a pound of unsalted butter into 
pieces, and work it into the flour ; beat and add 
eight eggs ; whip three pints of cream to a light 
foam, and work it evenly into the mixture. 
Now add the first mixture (if risen) and knead 
them well together. Cut and knead again ; 
allow it to rise ; knead again ; put it into well 
greased molds and bake in a quick oven. 

The French usually make it into balls hol- 
lowed at the top by pressing the thumb into 
them ; beaten egg is then brushed over them 
and much smaller dough-balls are placed in the 
hollow part of each. Egg is again brushed over 
them and the whole is then baked. A richer 
paste can be made by using more eggs and 
butter. 

Cocoanut Cake.— Three-fourths of a pint of 
powdered sugar, one ounce of butter, half a pint 
of grated cocoanut, one pint of flour, one table- 
spoonful of baking powder, and milk enough to 
make a stiff batter. Mix, and bake in buttered 
pans ; sprinkle dry cocoanut on top. 

Deviled Almonds.— Blanch two ounces of 
sweet almonds in hot water, to more easily re- 



DEVILED CHESTNUTS. 



move their skins, and toss them about a few 
moments in hot butter ; sprinkle over them a 
pinch of cayenne and salt. 

Deviled Chestnuts.— Peel the raw chestnuts 
and scald them to remove the inner skin ; put 
them in a frying-pan with a little butter and toss 
them about a few moments ; add a sprinkle of 
salt and a suspicion of cayenne. Serve them 
after the cheese. 

Dominoes.— Bake two thin sheets of sponge 
cake ; cover one of them with chocolate paste, 
and the other with icing ; put little dots of 
chocolate over the latter to represent the domi- 
noes ; place the cake on top of the chocolate 
and cut the cake through to pieces of the size of 
dominoes. 

£clair8.— Put in a saucepan half a pound of 
butter ; whisk into it a quart of boiled milk and 
add gradually one pound of sifted flour, and a 
saltspoonful of salt. Stir the milk briskly with 
a wooden spoon, while the flour is being added ; 
allow the paste to stand on the range a few 
minutes to evaporate some of its moisture, then 
add one egg at a time, beating thoroughly, until 
the paste shows signs of becoming sticky instead 
of being smooth. 

No definite number of eggs can be prescribed to 
attain this result, as there is so much difference 



14 PRESH PEAR TART. 

in flour, but from five to seven will be sufficient 
to produce the desired consistency. Put the 
paste in a funnel-shaped bag, having a tin tube 
in the small end, and squeeze it out on a but- 
tered pan, making the Eclair three or four inches 
long. Then bake these forms of light paste for 
about twenty minutes. 

Prepare a cream as follows : Put two quarts 
of milk on the range and add to it half a pound 
of powdered sugar. Put together a quarter of a 
pound of flour and four eggs and one vanilla 
bean ; beat thoroughly ; when the milk boils add 
it to the flour and eggs and whisk lively. Set 
the mixture on the range ; let it come to a boil, 
and pour it into a bowl to become cold. When 
cold, stir into this cream a pint of whipped cream. 

Cut the Eclairs on the side and fill them with 
the cream. They may be served plain or with 
a covering of chocolate, icing, or coffee fondant. 

Fresh Pear Tart.— Prepare the tart shell as in 
recipe for Rhubarb Tarts (which see). Peel, 
quarter, and core six pears. Put a pint of boil- 
ing water in a double saucepan, stir into it 
gradually half a pound of crushed sugar ; let it 
boil up ; skim until clear ; add the pears, let 
them simmer half an hour. Pour into a crock 
or bowl. When wanted, add three pieces of 
fruit to each tart shell and use the remaining 



GATEAU ST. HONORK. 



>5 



syrup as a pudding sauce by adding a table- 
spoonful of brandy or other flavoring. 

Gkiteau St. Honord.— Prepare a pie crust as 
for custard pie, put it on a greased pie plate, and 
bake to a delicate brown. When done and cool, 
spread a layer of quince marmalade over it. 
Prepare a paste as for cream cakes, put it in a 
pastry bag and press part of it round the edge of 
a round cake tin, press out the remainder in 
balls the size of hickory nuts and bake. Lay the 
border on the edge of the pie crust and press it 
into the marmalade ; garnish the edge with the 
balls and sections of oranges, candied cherries, 
grapes, etc. ; fill the centre with Bavarian cream. 

Lemon Water Ice.— To a heaping table- 
spoonful of gelatine dissolved in two gills of cold 
water, add a quart of boiling water, twelve 
ounces of sugar, a pint of boiling water, and the 
strained juice of eight lemons ; mix thoroughly, 
strain and freeze. Freezers are indispensable in 
well-regulated kitchens. They need not be ex- 
pensive or elaborate, and will pay for themselves 
in a very short time, especially in hot weather, 
when frozen puddings, custards and ices are in 
constant demand. A good butter-tub will 
answer for ordinary use if one has good cans 
with tight covers. Pack the fine ice with alter- 
nate layers of rock salt around the can, pour in 




i6 



MACAROONS. 



the prepared liquid and work it well with a 
wooden spade or spoon while freezing, which 
will prevent it from granulating. Do not draw 
off the water from around the can, until the 
cream or ice is finished, then draw off the sur- 
plus water, repack with ice and salt, and the 
frozen delicacy will be ready to serve in two 
hours. The proportion of salt to ice is one to 
five. When rock salt is scarce the water in the 
freezer may be poured in shallow tins and placed 
in a moderate oven with the door open, where 
the water will evaporate, leaving the salt in the 
bottom of the tin. 

Maoaroons.~Blanch (a term used in cookery, 
meaning to scald, so as to more easily remove 
the husks or skins of fruits, etc.) and pound 
three ounces of sweet almonds with half a pound 
of fine powdered sugar ; beat up to a very light 
froth tlie whites of four eggs with an ounce of 
rice flour, a tablespoonful of dry sherry ; whisk 
it into the almond paste ; drop the mixture on 
paper in wafers about two inches apart, and bake 
in a moderate oven. Neatly arrayed round 
whipped cream they are used quite frequently. 

Maids of Honor.— Half -pint each of sweet 
and sour milk, two ounces of powdered rock 
candy, one tablespoonful of melted butter, yolks 
of four eggs beaten up, and the juice and grated 



ORANGE WATER ICE. 



17 



rind of one lemon. Put the milk in a vessel, 
which set in another, half full of water ; heat 
them to set the curd, then strain off the milk, 
rub the curd through a strainer ; add the butter 
to it and the other ingredients. Line little pans 
with rich paste ; fill with the mixture and bake 
until firm in the center. 

Orange Water loe,— Add a tablespoonful of 
gelatine to one gill of cold water ; let it stand 
twenty minutes and add half a pint of boiling 
water, stir until dissolved and add four ounces of 
powdered sugar, the strained juice of six oranges, 
and cold water enough to make a full quart in 
all. Stir until the sugar is dissolved ; pour into 
the freezing can and freeze (see lemon water ice). 

Bioe Souffle.— Wash a pint of rice, put it in 
a saucepan and add a pint of boiled milk and a 
small piece of stick cinnamon ; boil until the 
milk is absorbed. Remove the cinnamon. 
When cold add the beaten yolks of four eggs 
and an ounce of sugar beaten together, to the 
rice. Have ready a quantity of stiff foam made 
from the beaten whites of six eggs. Whisk it 
into the rice and beat the mixture thoroughly ; 
pour it in a buttered dish, bake to a light golden 
color, and serve the moment it leaves the oven. 

Bhubarb Tarts.— One pound of sifted flour, 
a quarter of a pound of lard, a quarter of a 



i8 



SPONGE CAKE. 



pound of butter ; work the flour and lard 
together ; add water enough to make a dough, 
roll it out, spread a portion of the butter over it, 
fold and roil again ; add more butter, and so 
on until all the butter is used. When wanted, 
roll it half an inch thick, cut it into rounds with 
a fluted cutter, brush a little egg over the top 
edge and bake. When done fill them with 
rhubarb, stewed and sweetened. 

Sponge Cake.— Separate the whites and yolks 
of ten eggs ; beat the yolks thoroughly with one 
pound of sifted, powdered sugar ; add half a 
pound of sifted flour, a saltspoonful of salt and 
the grated rind of one orange and one lemon. 
Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and beat it into 
the mixture thoroughly. Half fill your buttered 
pans with the mixture, and bake forty-five min- 
utes. Cover the cake with paper during the first 
half baking. 

Sponge Drops.— Separate the whites and 
yolks of six eggs and beat them thoroughly. 
Add to the yolks four ounces each of sifted flour 
and sugar. Beat in the whisked whites and two 
gills of rose-water; beat the mixture five minutes. 
Butter the baking tin, and drop the mixture by 
spoonfuls on it ; dust a little sugar over them ; 
let them stand a few minutes to absorb the sugar, 
and bake twenty minutes. 



VELVET CREAM. 



19 



Velvet Creanou—Dissolve half an ounce of 
gelaline in a gill of water ; add to it half a pint 
of light sherry, grated lemon peel and the juice 
of one lemon and five ounces of sugar. Stir 
over the fire until the sugar is thoroughly dis- 
solved. Then strain and cool. Before it sets 
beat into it a pint of cream ; pour into molds 
and keep on ice until wanted. 

Vanilla loe Creain.~Take four quarts of 
rich cream, two vanilla beans, split in two and 
cut small, two pounds of powdered sugar, and 
four fresh eggs. Beat the eggs thoroughly in a 
porcelain-lined dish ; add the sugar and stir well 
together ; add the cream and vanilla, simmer 
until near boiling point, remove and strain 
through a hair sieve. When cool pour into a 
freezer, and freeze in the usual manner. 



VARIOUS FRUIT DESSERTS. 

Apple Charlotte.— A home-made apple char- 
lotte is prepared as follows : Line the inside 
of a pudding- dish with thin slices of home-made 
bread, moderately well buttered on both sides. 
Peel, core and slice a quantity of sour apples ; 
put in a thin layer of apple in the dish ; spice 
moderately, and add a liberal quantity of sugar ; 
then add a layer of any kind of home-made pre- 



20 



APRICOTS WITH RICE. 



serves, and so on until the dish is really full ; 
put slices of buttered bread on top, and bake 
until quite brown and crisp on top. 

Apricots with Rice.— Wash a pint of rice 
thoroughly, scald it with hot water, drain and 
cool ; add to the rice a quart of rich milk, a 
quarter of a pound of sugar and a saltspoonful 
of salt ; simmer gently an hour. When done, 
beat it with a wooden spoon. Wet an oval 
mould with water, press the rice in it and keep 
on ice until wanted. Cut a dozen apricots in 
halves, remove the stones and boil the apricots 
in a syrup made of a pound of sugar, a pint of 
water, and the juice of two lemons. Turn the 
rice on a glass dish, arrange the apricots around 
it, pour the syrup over all (when cold) and 
serve. 

Banana Charlotte. -Line the sides of a quart 
mould with slices of sponge cake or brioche ; 
cover the bottom of the mould with thin slices of 
Aspinwall bananas ; fill the mould with stiff- whip- 
ped or Bavarian cream ; set it aside in the ice- 
box until wanted ; then remove carefully from 
the mould and serve. 

Banana Fritters.— Remove the skin from 
four large yellow bananas. Cut the fruit in two 
crosswise, then lengthwise, in not too thin slices ; 
dip them in a batter, fry in hot fet, and servo 



BLACKBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 



21 



with a sweet sauce, flavored with kiisch or other 
liqueur. Make the batter as follows : Beat 
the yolks of three eggs and add a gill of milk, a 
saltspoonfull of salt, four ounces of sifted flour, 
and mix thoroughly. 

Blaokberry Short-oake.— Prepare the short- 
cake as in the recipe for strawberry short cake 
(which see). Examine the berries carefully ; 
reject all bruised or decayed ones ; arrange 
them on the lower piece of short-cake on their 
sides, but place them upright on the upper 
layer and dredge liberally with sugar. 

Fresh Pineapples in Jelly.— Procure a pint 
of calf 's-foot or wine jelly from the grocer. Sur- 
round a small fancy mould with ice, keeping 
the opening end upward ; add enough jelly 
to cover the bottom of the mould ; when firm 
add a layer of diamond-shaped pieces of pine- 
apple, then add more jelly and pineapple until 
the mould is full and all the fruit is used. Keep 
it as cold as possible until wanted, then dip the 
mould quickly in hot water and turn out the 
form on an ice-cold dish. 

Frosen Bananas.— Cut six large, ripe, red 
bananas crosswise, in very thin slices ; add half 
a pound of powdered sugar to them, let them 
stand an hour, then add a quart of water and the 
grated peel of a lemon. When the sugar is dis' 




22 



FROZEN PEACHES. 



solved, put the fruit in the freezer and freeze as 
you would ice-cream. Pineapples, oranges and 
berries may be served in the same manner. A 
pint of cream, whipped stiff, may be added if liked. 

Frozen Peaches.— Peel, stone, and quarter 
the peaches, put them in a freezing-can or crock 
in alternate layers, with an equal quantity of 
peach Sherbet and keep surrounded with ice 
until wanted. 

Orange-Coooanut Salad.— Fruits served as a 
salad are most enjoyable ; served with a crispy 
crMon or quantity of little cakes they are very 
acceptable (see After-Dinner Croiiions). Peel 
and slice four Florida oranges. Cover the bot- 
tom of a compotier with slices of oranges, and 
strew over them a layer of fresh-grated cocoanut ; 
add layers of sliced orange and cocoanut until 
the dish is full. Add powdered sugar, and over 
all pour a pint of champagne. 

Orange SsJacL— In India, orange salad is 
served with a plain dressing of oil, vinegar, pep- 
per and salt ; but for Americans, the most ap- 
propriate dressing is of liqueurs. Peel and slice 
three cold oranges, remove the seeds, arrange 
the slices neatly in a compotier, dust powdered 
sugar over them and add two tablespoonfuls each 
of maraschino, chartreuse, and brandy ; let the 
dish stand an hour before serving. 



ORANGE SPONGE. 



23 



Orange Sponge.— Oranges are not only excel- 
lent at breakfeist (which is the best time to eat 
them), but should be oftener served at dessert — 
as puddings, jellies, short cake, etc. — than they 
are. A very nice dish is made as follows : 
squeeze out the juice and pulp of three oranges 
into a bowly add the juice of half a lemon, three 
ounces of sugar, one and a half pints of cold 
water ; let it come to a boil, then strain. Dis- 
solve two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch in a little 
cold water, rub it smooth and add to it the 
strained juices ; let it boil fifteen minutes to 
cook the corn-starch. Then set it aside, and 
when cold set it in the ice-box to become quite 
cold. Beat up the whites of three eggs to a 
foam, whip it into the corn-starch, and it is 
ready for use. It may be served in tart shells 
or fancy cases, or in meringue boats. 

Peaches a la Condd.— Peel and cut the 
peaches in two, and stew them in clarified sugar 
syrup. Fill an oval mould with hot boiled rice ; 
turn the form out on a dish, arrange the peaches 
around it, and decorate with preserved cherries, 
or other smal 1 fruits from the confectioner's. Mix 
half a pint of the syrup with a gill each of sherry 
and marmalade, pour it over the dish, and serve 
hot. 

Peaches a la SuMoise.^ut a dozen fine 




24 



PEACH FRITTERS. 



peaches in halves^ remove the stones and boil 
the peaches in white sugar syrup ; drain on a 
sieve and remove the skins. Cut a sandwich 
loaf of bread in two, lengthwise, trim off all 
crust from one-half of it and fry this in hot but- 
ter ; drain and cool ; put it on a flat dish, arrange 
the peaches on top of it, reduce the syrup a little 
and pour it over the peaches. Strew over the 
dish a quantity of deviled almonds, and serve. 

Peach Fritters.— Peel the peaches, split each 
in two and take out the stones ; dust a little 
powdered sugar over them ; dip each piece in 
the batter, and fry in hot fat. Put an ounce 
of butter in a saucepan, and whisk it to a cream; 
add four ounces of sugar gradually. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs ; add to them a dash of nut- 
meg and a gill each of cold water and rum ; stir 
this into the lukewarm batter, and allow it to 
heat gradually. Stir constantly until of a smooth, 
creamy consistency, and serve. The batter is 
made as follows : Beat the yolks of three eggs ; 
add to them a gill of milk, a saltspoonful of 
salt, four ounces of flour ; mix. If old flour is 
used, a little more milk may be found necessary. 

Peach Meringue.— Peel six ripe peaches, 
split or cut them in halves and remove the stones. 
Beat half a pint of rich cream in a bowl sur- 
rounded with ice, until it is three times its original 



PEACH SHORT-CAKE. 



quantity. Place the f toth on a sieve to drain, 
and keep it on ice until wanted. Dredge the 
peaches with sugar. Beat the whites of four eggs 
until very stiff, and add four ounces of powdered 
sugar gradually. Cover an oven board with white 
paper and drop the beaten eggs on it by table- 
spoonfuls, place them over the range for half an 
hour, then brown slightly in a slow oven, remove 
the soft part when they are cold and place half 
of a peach in the cavity. Place mounds of the 
whipped cream on top, and serve. The mer- 
ingues may be filled with the cream and half of 
a peach placed in the center. 

Peach Short-caJce.— Prepare the short-cake 
as in the recipe for Strawberry Short-cake. Peel 
and slice the peaches, arrange the slices with 
sugar as fast as peeled, and arrange in the usual 
manner in layers on top of the short-cake. The 
top layer should be covered with a whipped cream 
to make it more palatable. 

Pineapple Fritters.— Peel and dig out the 
edges of the fruit, and then slice and cut out the 
hard core of each slice. Dip the slices in a bat- 
ter, and fry in hot fat. Add to half a pint of 
hot sugar syrup a tablespoonful of Kirschwas- 
ser, and serve with the fritters. 

Pineapple Salad.— Pare and dig out the eyes 
of a ripe pineapple ; take hold of the crown of 



26 



pLuM Salad. 



the pine with the left hand, take a fork in the 
right hand, and with it tear the pine into shreds 
until the core is reached, which throw away. 
Arrange the shredded fruit lightly in a compotier, 
add a liberal quantity of powdered sugar, a wine- 
glassful of cura9oa, half a wine.glassf ul of brandy. 
Alternate layers of shredded pineapple and fresh 
cocoanut, served with a sauce made of orange- 
juice seasoned with sugar and liqueur, is excel- 
lent 

Plum Salad. — Large plums are excellent 
served as a salad. Split half a dozen plums 
in two, remove the stones. Put the halves in 
a compotier, skin side down, dust sugar over 
them and add a gill of sherry, a tablespoonful 
each of green chartreuse and of maraschino ; 
let them stand fifteen minutes, toss lightly, and 
serve. Claret may be used instead of sherry, and 
brandy instead of chartreuse. The object in 
using liquors with fruits is to prevent ill effects 
from overeating them. 

Baspberry Short-cake.— Prepare the short- 
cake as in recipe for Strawberry Short-cake 
(which see). Arrange a layer of berries on one- 
half of the cake, dredge with fine sugar, and place 
the other half on the berries ; cover the top with 
largest berries and add a liberal quantity of sugar, 
and serve. A mixture of whipped white of egg 



SALAD OF MIXED rRUlTS. i^ 



and sugar is sometimes added to the top layer 
and it is placed in the oven a moment to set, 
but too much heat will spoil the berries. [The 
short-cake of the restaurants is not a true ' ' short- 
cake/' it being made of layers of sponge cake.] 

Salad of Mixed Fruits.— Put in the center 
of a dish a pineapple, properly pared, cored, and 
sliced, yet retaining as near as practicable its 
original shape. Peel, quarter, and remove the 
seeds from four sweet oranges ; arrange them in 
a border around the pineapple. Select four fine 
bananas, peel and cut into slices lengthwise ; 
arrange these zigzag-fence kshion around the bor- 
der of the dish. In the V-shaped spaces around 
the dish put tiny mounds of grapes of mixed col- 
ors. When complete the dish should look very 
appetizing. To half a pint of clear sugar syrup 
add half an ounce each of brandy, maraschino, 
and cura9oa ; pour over the fruit and serve. 

Sliced Fears.— Pare, quarter, and core four 
fme pears, put them in a compotier, and pour 
over them half a pint of hot sugar syrup, cover 
and allow it to cool. Add a tablespoonful of 
brandy. Keep on ice until wanted. 

Strawberry Charlotte.— Prepare the char- 
lotte as prescribed in Banana Charlotte. Substi- 
tute strawberries for bananas and the result will 
be very gratifying. 



28 STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Strawberry Short-cake.--Sift together half 
a pound of flour, a coffeespoonful each of salt 
and ol sugar, and two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Work into this mixture a quarter of a 
pound of cold washed butter ; add gradually two 
gills of cold boiled milk, mix quickly with a 
knife ; dredge flour over the moulding- board and 
turn the paste upon it, toss with the knife until 
it is floured, pat it gently with a floured rolling- 
pin and roll it down to half an inch thickness ; 
put a plate on top of the paste and cut round it, 
grease a baking-tin, put the rounds upon it and 
bake. When done make an incision round the 
center of the edge and tear them apart. If not 
too thick they need not be divided. Wash the 
berries to remove grit ; arrange a layer x>i them 
on one-half of the cake, dredge with fine sugar, 
and place the other half on the berries ; cover 
the top with largest berries and add a liberal 
quantity of sugar, and serve. A mixture of 
whipped white of egg and sugar is sometimes 
added to the top layer and it is placed in the 
oven a moment to set, but too much heat will 
spoil the berries. 

A novelty in short-cakes is made of black and 
white Hamburg • grapes. Large California or 
Malaga grapes may be used, if the seeds are not 
objected to. In our opinion grape seeds are a 



COLD CUSTARD. 



29 



constant source of trouble and cause many 01 the 
ilis attributed to other sources. Seeds should 
therefore be rejected. 

Velyet Cream with Strawberries.— Half fill 
small moulds with fine strawberries, pour the 
cream on top and place on ice until wanted. (See 
Velvet Cream.) 



CUSTARDS AND OMELETS AS DES- 
SERTS. 

Cold Custard.— Wet a saucepan with cold 
water to prevent the milk that will be scalded in 
it from burning. Pour out the water and put in 
a quart of milk ; boil and partly cool. Beat up 
the yolks of six eggs and add three ounces of 
sugar and a saltspooniul of salt ; mix thoroughly 
and add the lukewarm milk. Stir and pour the 
custard into a porcelain or double saucepan and 
stir while on the range until of the consistency of 
cream, strain and when almost cold add flavor- 
ing if desired. Pour the custard in cups, which 
place on ice until wanted, or pour it into the 
freezer and freeze en bloc. After the eggs and 
cream have combined, it must not be allowed to 
boil or it will curdle. 

Cold Bice Custard. -Prepare a custard as in 



30 MERINO UJl CUSTARD TARTLETS. 

the foregoing recipe. Add to it, before pouring 
into the cups, half a pint of boiled rice ; mix and 
keep surrounded with ice until wanted. 

Meringue Custard Tartlets.— The deep in- 
dividual pie- tins, fluted tartlet pans, are suitable 
for custard tarts, but they should be about six 
inches in diameter and from two to three inches 
deep. Butter the pan and line it with ordinary 
puff paste, then fill it with a custard made as 
follows : Stir gradually into the beaten yolks of 
six eggs two tablespoonfuls of flour, asaltspoon- 
ful of salt and half a pint of cream. Stir until 
free from lumps and add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, put the saucepan on the range and stir un- 
til the custard coats the spoon. Do not let it 
boil or it will curdle. Pour it in a bowl, add 
a few drops of vanilla flavoring and stir until the 
custard becomes cold ; fill the lined mould with 
this and bake in a moderate oven. In the 
mean time, put the white of the eggs in a bright 
copper vessel and beat thoroughly, using a 
baker's wire egg-beater for this purpose. While 
beating, sprinkle in lightly half a pound of sugar 
and a dash of salt. When the paste is quite firm, 
spread a thin layer of it over the tart and deco- 
rate the top with the remainder by squeezing it 
through a paper funnel. Strew a little pow- 
dered sugar over the top, return to the oven, and 



OMELET SOUFFLE. 



31 



when a delicate yellow tinge, remove from the 
oven and serve hot. 

Omelet Souffld.— Beat separately the whites 
of four and the yolks of two eggs ; whisk the 
whites into the yolks ; add a tiblespoonful of 
sugar and a few drops of vanilla extract ; turn it 
out on a shallow tin or plate, and bake about 
ten or twelve minutes. Serve immediately, and 
on the dish in which it was baked. An Omelet 
Souffle is an excellent and inexpensive sweet or 
dessert dish, and one that should be more often 
met with in private families. The secret of mak- 
ing it is to beat the eggs thoroughly and serve 
it the moment it is taken from the oven, other- 
wise it will be fiat and worthless. 

Omelet with Jelly.— Put a small quantity of 
lard or oil into the pan, let it simmer a few 
minutes and remove it, wipe the pan dry with a 
towel, and put in a little fresh oil in which the 
omelet may be fried. Care should be taken that 
the oil does not burn, which would spoil the color 
of the omelet Break three eggs separately ; put 
them into a bowl and whisk them thoroughly 
with a fork. The longer they are beaten the 
lighter will the omelet be. Beat up a teaspoon- 
ful of milk with the eggs and continue to beat 
until the last moment before pouring into the 
pan, which should be over a hot fire. As soon 



32 



RUM OMELET. 



as the omelet sets, remove the pan from the hot- 
test part of the fire. Slip a knife under it to 
prevent sticking to the pan« When the center is 
almost firm, slant the pan, work the omelet in 
shape to fold ; just before folding, add a table- 
spoonful of currant jelly ; turn it out on a hot 
dish, dust a little powdered sugar over it, and 
serve. 

Bum Omelet.- -Sweet Omelets are very often 
substituted for other desserts and are appropriate 
in an emergency. 

As a rule, an omelet is a wholesome and inex- 
pensive dish, yet one in the preparation of which 
cooks frequently fail, owing to carelessness of 
detail. With a little attention the housewife can 
easily become the perfect cook in this branch as 
well as others. 

The flavoring and the ingredients of omelets 
may be varied indefinitely, but the principle is 
always the same : in making an omelet care 
should be taken that the omelet pan is hot and 
dry. To ensure this, put a small quantity of 
lard into the pan, let it simmer a few minutes 
and remove it, wipe the pan dry with a towel and 
put in a little fresh lard in which the omelet may 
be fried. Care should be taken that the lard 
does not burn, which would spoil the color of 
the omelet. 



RUM OMELET. 



33 



It is better to make two or three small omelets 
than one very large one, as the latter cannot be 
well handled by a novice. The omelet made of 
three eggs is the one recommended for begin- 
ners. Break the eggs separately ; put them into 
a bowl and whisk them thoroughly with a fork. 
The longer ihey are beaten the lighter will the 
omelet be. Beat up a teaspoonful of milk with 
the eggs and continue to beat until the last 
moment before pouring into the pan, which 
should be over a hot fire. As soon as the omelet 
sets, remove the pan from the hottest part of the 
fire. Slip a knife under to prevent sticking to 
the pan. When the center is almost firm, slant 
the pan, work the omelet in shape to fold easily 
and neatly, and when slightly browned hold a 
platter against the edge of the pan and deftly turn 
it out on to the hot dish. 

Salt mixed with the eggs prevents them from 
rising, and when it is so used the omelet will 
look fiabby, yet without salt it will taste insipid. 
Add a little salt to it just before folding it and 
turn out on the dish. 

To make a rum omelet, prepare an omelet as 
has been directed, fold it and turn out on a hot 
dish ; dust a liberal quantity of powdered sugar 
over it, and singe the sugar into neat stripes with 
a hot iron rod, heated in the coals, pour a glass 



34 APPLE-MANIOCA PUDDING. 

of warm Jamaica rum around it, and when it is 
placed on the table set fire to the rum. With a 
tablespoon dash the burning rum over the ome- 
let. 

Tapioca Custard. — Pick over carefully and 
wash one-quarter of a pound of small grain 
tapioca. Add to it a quart of boiling milk, two 
saitspoonfuls of salt, and boil slowly an hour 
and a half ; stir frequently ; when done, allow 
it to cool a little. Beat five eggs thoroughly, and 
add to them three ounces of sugar, an ounce of 
butter, and a dash of nutmeg. Gradually add 
the tapioca. Let the whole come to boiling 
point ; pour into cups or a mould, and serve hot 
or ice cold, as may be preferred. 



PUDDINGS. 

Apple-Manioca Pudding.— Put in one pint 
of milk four tablespoonfuls of manioca, and * a 
saltspoonful of salt. Place these ingredients in 
a saucepan and after boiling pour into a dish, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one pint 
more of cold milk, two beaten eggs, the grated 
rind of one lemon, and a saltspoonful of mixed 
spice. Line a baking tin pan with sliced apples, 
pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate hot 
oven half an hour. 



BATTER PUDDING. 



35 



Batter Pudding.— Beat separately the whites 
and yolks of four eggs ; mix with them eight 
ounces of Hour and a saltspoonful of salt ; make 
a batter with a little more than a pint of milk ; 
mix. Butter a baking-tin, and just before pour- 
ing the mixture into it, add a teaspoonful of 
baking-powder. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

Boiled Pudding— Half a pint of chopped 
beef suet ; same amount of grated bread and 
same quantity of washed currants ; mix with two 
tablespoon fuls of sugar, a teaspoonful of lemon- 
peel, saltspoonful of salt and same of grated nut- 
meg ; whip up two eggs with half a pint of 
milk ; work the mixture to a light paste ; scald 
a few small pudding-cloths, wring them out, 
flour them, and tie a small portion of the mixture 
in each ; plunge them into boiling water, boil 
quickly half an hour, turn them out on a hot 
dish, dust sugar over them, and serve with the 
following sauce : Melt an ounce of butter, add 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, teaspoon- 
ful of grated lemon-peel, pinch of nutmeg and a 
wineglassful of sherry. 

Boiled Hioe Dumplings, Custard Sauoe.— 
Boil half a pound of rice ; drain and pound it 
moderately fine. Add to it two ounces of butter, 
three ounces of sugar, half a saltspoonful of 
mixed ground spice, salt, and the yolks of two 



36 BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING. 

eggs. Moisten a trifle with a tablespoonful or 
two of cream. With floured hands shape the 
mixture into balls, and tie them in floured pud- 
ding-cloths. Steam or boil forty minutes, and 
send to table with a custard made as follows : 

Mix together four ounces of sugar and two 
ounces of butter (slightly warmed). Beat 
together the yolks of two eggs and a gill of 
cream ; mix and pour the sauce in a double 
saucepan ; set this in a pan of hot water, and 
whisk thoroughly three minutes. Set the sauce- 
pan in cold water and whisk until the sauce is 
cooled. 

Bread-and-Butter Pudding.— Select a loaf 
of stale bread. Do not remove the crust. Cut 
the loaf in thin slices and butter them ; half fill 
a pudding dish with them and fill up with a 
boiled custard ; put the dish in a pan part full 
of water, and let it remain on top of the range 
an hour and a half, then place it in the oven to 
brown slightly. When done, serve with a sauce 
made as follows : Cream two ounces of butter, 
and add a heaping tablespoonful of flour, half a 
pint of cream, a tablespoonful of sugar, and two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry. Let it come to a boil, 
then place it on the back of the range. When 
lukewarm, whisk into it slowly the yolk of one 
egg, well beaten ; warm it slightly, and serve. 



BREAD AND FRUIT PUDDING. 37 

Bread-and-Fruit Pudding.— Trim off the 
crusl from a quantity of dry bread and grate the 
remaining white part of it ; add to a pint of it 
one quart of hot boiled milk, two ounces of 
butter, four ounces of sugar, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a heaping saltspoonful of mixed 
ground spice. When cool, whisk into it four 
well-beaten eggs. Peel and slice a dozen fine, 
firm peaches ; add them to the mixture ; pour 
it into a brown bread or deep pudding mould ; 
place it in a pot of hot water and steam three 
hours. Serve either hot or cold and with an egg 
or cream sauce, flavored with lemon or vanilla. 
Canned fruits of all kinds may be used when 
fresh are too expensive. 

Bread Pudding.— Soak a pint of grated bread 
crumbs in one and a half pints of milk. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs with a tablespoonful of 
sugar, a little salt and the grated rind of one 
lemon, mix into the bread and place in an oven 
to bake. Whisk the whites of an egg with a 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar and the juice 
of half a lemon, and when light add to the pud- 
ding, return to the oven again and bake to a 
light brown. 

Carrot Pudding.— Americans, as a class, 
unfortunately do not appreciate the young carrot 
— either as a vegetable or as the basis of sweet 



38 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 



dishes — nearly as much as foreigners do. They 
are excellent served as fritters, and in puddings, 
pies, jam, cheese-cakes, soups, etc. A very nice 
pudding is made as follows : Half a pint of 
grated bread crumbs, one-quarter of a pound of 
flour, one-quarter of a pound of butter, half a 
pound of dried or preserved cherries, half a 
pound of crushed sugar and a saltspoonful of 
salt. Boil a dozen young carrots three-quarters 
of an hour, rub them through a sieve and add 
half a pound of the pulp to the mixture ; mix 
thoroughly ; pour in a buttered mould and steam 
two and a half hours ; serve with a sauce made 
as follows : Boil one-quarter of a pound of 
sugar in a pint of water ; skim off the surface 
until clear ; add a wineglassful of sherry ; when 
cool, beat an egg and whisk it into the syrup. 

Chocolate Pudding.— Add one ounce of 
grated chocolate to a quart of milk ; boil 
thoroughly ; flavor with vanilla ; set aside to 
cool ; then stir in the yolks of six eggs, well 
beaten ; bake in a buttered pudding dish until 
it stiffens like custard. Beat the whites of six 
eggs with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, to 
a stiff froth ; spread over the top of the pud- 
ding ; return to the oven and brown quickly. 

Ck>ld Apple Pudding.—Sift one pint of flour, 
add one-quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. B^t 



COLD CABINET PUDDING. 



39 



the whites and yolks of four eggs separately ; add 
the yolks and half a pint of rich cream, add a 
pint of strained apple sauce, six ounces of sugar, 
a pinch of cinnamon, and beat in the whites of 
the eggs. Pour into a very deep pan, or, better 
still, a deep mould, which place in a pan partly 
full of hot water ; let it simmer on the back of 
the range for three-quarters of an hour ; then 
put pan and pudding in the oven for about the 
same length of time. When done, it may be 
served hot if liked, or packed in ice and served 
cold with a rich cream sauce. 

Cold Cabinet Pudding.— Grease a quart 
pudding-mould and cover the bottom with pieces 
of candied lemon and orange peel, cut diamond 
shape. Between each four diamonds place a 
boiled seedless raisin ; cover the fruit with a layer 
of stale sponge cake, and add a layer of raisins 
or other dried candied fruits ; repeat with alter- 
nate layers of cake and fruit until the mould is 
full. Beat up the yolks of four eggs with half a 
teaspoonful of salt and three ounces of sugar. 
Whisk into them a pint and a gill of lukewarm 
milk ; pour this into the mould. Place the mould 
in a pan of hot water ; let it remain on the back 
of the range an hour, then set pan and all in 
a moderate oven and bake one hour. Let it cool. 
When cold surround it with ice, and when 



40 COLD MAkQUlSE PUDDING. 

wanted, serve with a cold rich custard sauce, 
flavored with x'anilla or sherr}' wine. 

Cold Marquise Pudding.— Open a two- 
pound can of preserved pears, drain them from 
the liquid, cut them small and rub them through 
a sieve ; add half a pint of white sugar syrup. 
Cut up two pineapples into thin slices, and then 
into small dice. Add their weight of sugar and 
a pint of water ; simmer half an hour, set aside 
to cool. Boil half a pound of dried cherries in 
half a pint of syrup and cool. Surround the ice- 
cream freezer with ice, put the pear pulp in it 
and work it until partly frozen ; add while 
working the pears with the spatula, the well- 
beaten whites of four eggs. Drain the cherries 
and the pineapple from the syrup and add them, 
and when nearly frozen, put the mixture iu an 
ice-pudding mould. Surround it with ice and 
salt until wanted. If you can afford it, a pint of 
sweet champagne frapp^ed and served with the 
puddings as a sauce will be found delightful. 

Cold Plum Pudding.— Plum pudding is a 
winter dish, and is only tolerated in summer 
when served cold. As there is much trouble in 
preparing it we recommend the plum pudding 
of the grocer, for use in summer. Boil the 
pudding and cool it, put it in a mould, sur- 
round it with wine or brandy jelly and pack it 



COLD RICE PUDDING. 



41 



in ice. When wanted dip the mould in hot 
water an instant, turn it out, cut in slices and 
serve. 

Cold Bice Pudding.— The dish prepared 
according to rice pudding recipe may be placed 
on ice and served cold, but a richer pudding is 
more appreciated. Beat the whites and yolks of 
six eggs separately ; add four ounces of sugar, a 
little flavoring and salt to the yolks, and add 
cold boiled rice enough to make a stiff batter. 
Beat in the whisked whites ; pour the mixture 
into cups, set them in a pan partly filled with 
hot water, place on the back of the range for 
half an hour, then put the pan and puddings in 
the oven and bake forty minutes. When cold 
surround them with ice. A rich cold custard 
sauce may be ser\'ed with them. 

Cold Scotch Pudding.— Soak a pint of 
grated oatmeal crackers in one and a half pints 
of milk. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a 
heaping tablespoonful of powdered sugar, salt- 
spoonful of salt and the grated rind of a lemon ; 
mix with the soaked crackers. Beat the whites 
of the eggs wiih a tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar, whisk into the mixture ; pour into small 
moulds (a little over half full) and set them in a 
pan containing warm water, place on top of 
range half an hour, then put the pan in the oven 



42 GREEN- APPLE DUMPLING. 

and bake forty-five minutes. When cool set 
them on ice and serve with wine sauce. 

Green-Apple Dumpling— Frtiit Sauce.— 
Wash and chop fine a quarter of a pound of beef 
suet, add to it half a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
pound of flour, a teaspoonful of baking-powder, 
and half a pint of milk, or enough to make a 
stiff paste ; roll it out, fold it and place on ice 
until wanted. Peel and core six green apples ; 
fill the center with a mixture of sugar, seasoned 
or spiced with a little ground cloves and butter 
(enough to bind it together), cover each apple 
with a thick layer of the paste, tie them in small 
pudding-cloths and steam them an hour and a 
half. Boil together a pint of raspberries, quarter 
of a pound of sugar and two gills of water, sim- 
mer gently, remove the scum as fast as it arises, 
strain through a small sieve, and serve. 

Indian Pudding.— Sift one pint of Indian 
yellow meal, add to it two ounces of chopped 
beef suet, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two gills 
of black molasses. Beat up two eggs and add 
to them one quart of milk ; mix and pour the 
paste into a small earthen pot. Set it in a pan 
of water and bake slowly three hours. 

Lemon Pudding.— Moisten half a pint of 
fine farina with a gill of cold milk ; add it to a 
pint of hot milk and stir well. Add a salt- 



NfANIOCA PUDDING. 



43 



spoonful of salt and two ounces of butter, stii 
until quite smooth and thick, and allow it to 
become cold. Beat together four eggs, six 
ounces of sugar, the grated rind and juice of 
two lemons and a dash of ground cinnamon ; 
stir into this mixture the cold farina, a small 
quantity at a time, until used, then pour it into 
a buttered pudding-disband bake forty minutes. 
It may be served hot, but is better when served 
cold, during hot weather. 

Manioca Pudding.— Three tablespoonfuls of 
manioca, one quart of milk, a little salt, one 
tablespoonful of butter, and two well-beaten 
eggs ; sugar, spice, or flavoring to the taste. 
Mix manioca in half the milk cold, and, with 
the butter^ stir on the fire until it thickens, pour 
it quickly into a dish, stir in the sugar and re- 
maining milk, and when quite cool add the 
eggs, spice, and wine or other flavoring. This 
pudding maybe varied by omitting the eggs and 
substituting currants, chopped raisins, or can- 
died lemon, orange, or citron sliced. Bake half 
an hour in a moderate oven. 

It is also very nice served cold. 

M6ringue Pudding.— To a pint of grated 
bread crumbs add a quart of milk ; mix together 
five ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter and 
the beaten yolks of five eggs. Grate the outer 



44 



MINUTE PUDDING. 



yellow rind of two lemons and with the juice of 
one mix all together ; flavor with ground mixed 
spice to suit your taste ; put the mixture in a 
buttered pan and bake twenty- five minutes. Beat 
the white of the eggs to a spongy froth with 
three ounces of fine sugar ; take the pudding 
out of the oven, add the Meringue, and when 
slightly colored, it is done. 

Minute Pudding.— Sift half a pound of 
flour ; add half a teaspoonful of salt and a 
tablespoonful of sugar ; make a batter by add- 
ing half a pint of milk ; boil the batter in boil- 
ing water five minutes, and pour off the water. 
Wet a few cups with cold water, turn the pud- 
ding into these, and serve with a sauce made of 
melted butter and water thickened with a little 
flour. 

Plum Pudding.— A very good plum-pudding 
is made as follows : Grate the inner part of a loaf 
of moderately stale home-made bread ; add to 
six ounces of it a pound of flour, a pound of 
beef suet floured and chopped fine, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, half a pound of blanched almonds or 
walnuts, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of 
raisins stoned and chopped, half a pound of 
washed currants, two ounces each of candied 
citron, lemon-peel, and orange-peel cut fine, 
half a pound of chopped apple, half an ounce of 



PINEAPPLE CABINET PUDDING. 45 

mixed ground spice, and a teaspoonful of fresh 
lemon- juice. Beat together five eggs and a pint 
of milk. Stir it into the mixture ; add half a 
pint of California brandy, and pour the mixture 
into a porcelain- lined kettle. Simmer gently 
and stir it well for fifteen minutes ; put the 
mixture in bowls previously scalded, and when 
cool cover them with well- washed muslin and 
put them away. When wanted, boil or steam 
lour hours, turn out of the bowl, and put on top 
of it a few squares of cut sugar, pour on a little 
brandy, and set it afire. Serve with a thin 
custard sauce flavored with vanilla or brandy. 
But very little of this pudding should be given 
to young people, as it might affect them. The 
pudding will keep a year. 

Pineapple Cabinet Pudding.— This is an 
excellent pudding and can be prepared at quite 
reasonable cost at this season of the year. Pro- 
ceed as in recipe for cold cabinet pudding, using 
diamond-shaped pieces of fresh pineapple instead 
of dried or candied fruits. It may be served hot, 
but is better cold. 

Bice k I'Imperatrice.— Wash a pint of rice 
and boil it in a quart of milk until tender ; add 
three ounces of sugar, and stir while cooking, 
until the sugar is dissolved. Remove it from the 
fire and when cold add the well- beaten yolks of 



46 



RICE PUDDING. 



five eggs. Soak one ounce of fine gelatine in 
cold water until soft, add to it three gills of boil- 
ing cream and two ounces of sugar ; stir until 
dissolved, strain into a tin, which place in a 
wooden bowl surrounded with ice. When it 
commences to set whisk into it the whipped 
froth of three half-pints of cream, flavor with a 
few drops of extract, and work this into the rice 
mixture as lightly as possible. Put in the bot- 
tom of the moulds a tablespoonful of preserves 
or jelly, fill the moulds with the preparation and 
keep them on ice until wanted. 

Bice Pudding.— Wash two ounces of rice in 
two waters, then drain and add three half-pints 
of milk, an ounce of sugar, a little salt and a 
dash of nutmeg ; let stand three-quarters of an 
hour, then bake in a moderate oven until a de- 
licate brown. A rich rice pudding may be had 
by using eggs. 

Spanish Apple Pudding.— Cover the bottom 
of a pudding dish with a light puff paste, and 
lay on it a layer of thin slices of apples ; strew 
over them a tablespoonful of sugar and a salt- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon ; another layer of 
sliced apples sprinkled with a tablespoonful of 
sugar and a saltspoonful of ground cloves ; 
another layer of apples, sugar, and a saltspoonful 
of grated nutmeg. Cover with a top crust with 



SPANISH PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 47 

a hole in its center. Mix together a gill of white 
wine vinegar with two ounces of sugar, pour it 
in the hole and bake thirty minutes. 

Bpanish Pineapple Pudding.— Proceed as 
in the above recipe, using shredded pineapple 
instead of apple, and use sherry instead of vine- 
gar. 

Spanish Fruit Pudding.— Line a baking- 
dish with a light putf paste, add a layer of shred- 
ded pineapple and cover it with powdered sugar ; 
add a layer of sweet oranges sliced, strew over 
them a thin layer of sugar ; next add a layer of 
sliced bananas with sugar strewn over them. 
Repeat the process until the dish is full. Cover 
the dish with a light puff paste, and bake to a 
delicate brown. 

Sponge Pudding.— Sift together a quarter of 
a pound of flour and three ounces of sugar, mix 
two gills of cold milk, and work it into three 
half- pints of boiling milk ; stir over the range 
until smooth and thick. Now add two ounces 
of creamed butter and whisk into it the well- 
beaten yolks of eight eggs. Beat up the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff foam and work it into the 
batter. Pour the mixture into custard cups, set 
them in a pan of hot water and bake to a light 
brown ; serve with vanilla sauce. 

Steamed Peach Pudding.- Sift together on^ 



48 TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH PEACHES. 

pint of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder and two saltspoonfuls of salt. Beat 
together the yolks of two eggs with three ounces 
of sugar and half a pint of milk, add this to the 
flour. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and 
add it also. Cut six -nice peaches, dredge them 
with flour and add to the mixture ; pour into a 
buttered pudding-mould and steam two and a 
half hours. Send to table with a creamy sauce 
flavored with a spoonful of brandy. 

Tapioca Pudding with Peaches.— Wash 
half a pint of small tapioca ; put in a double 
boiler, add a liberal quart of boiling water and 
boil half an hour. Peel and halve a dozen 
peaches, put them in a pan, add one quarter of 
a pound of powdered sugar, a saltspoonful of 
mixed ground spice, four ounces of butter and 
the grated rind of a lemon. Pour the tapioca 
over the fruit, bake to a delicate brown, and 
serve — hot or cold — with cream or wine sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce.— Put half a pint of milk in a 
small saucepan ; when hot add the whisked 
yolks of three eggs and stir until it is the con- 
sistency of custard ; remove it from the fire, 
and when it is cool add a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract and the beaten whites of two eggs. 



PIE CRUST. 



49 



PIES. 

It is our firm conviction that the average pic 
of to-day is the direct cause of more ill-nature 
and general ' ' cussedness" in mankind than any- 
thing else, and that there lurks more solid, 
downright dyspepsia in a square inch of baker's 
pie than in all the other dyspeptic-producing 
compounds known. The pie we desire to see 
upon the American table is one that is more the 
receptable for fruit than a blending of fruit with 
puff-paste so soggy that lead would digest almost 
as easily. When a top crust is used let there be 
but little of it, and so light and delicate that 
** fairy footfalls** would break through it We 
here present two recipes for making pies, which, 
to say the least, are not only original but are also 
healthful. The puff paste for these pies is made 
as follows : 

Pie CniBt.— Sift together one quart of flour, 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of 
Horsford's baking-powder ; add gradually three 
gills of milk ; work to a dough, divide into four 
parts, and roll out the desired size. This crust 
when eaten is not harmful. 

Puff Paste.— A rich puff paste is not made 
without much trouble, and it requires much 
practice to make it perfect. Put in a bowl one 
quart of ice water, four pieces of ice, each piece 



HOME-MADE APPLE PIE. 



as large as an egg, and a pound of the very best 
butter. Work the butter with the hands until of 
a waxy consistency. Should the hands become 
numb, dip them in hot water for a moment. 
Divide the butter into three parts and keep on ice 
until wanted. Sift together one quart of flour 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Chop one-third of the 
butter in pieces, and work it into the flour with 
the fingers. When thoroughly incorporated add 
by degrees half a pint of ice-water ; work the 
paste until it looks like minute pellets ; turn it 
out on a floured board, and dredge with flour. 
Now comes the troublesome part of the operation 
— the use of the rolling-pin, with gentle taps of 
which reduce the size of the paste until it is right 
for rolling out. When quite smooth and about 
half an inch thick, roll it out, covering as large a 
surface as possible. Dredge one of the pieces of 
butter with flour and pat it quite thin ; put it 
on the paste and fold, first the sides and then 
the ends ; press it with the palm of the hand, 
and roll out again. Repeat this process, using 
the third piece of butter. If you are not ex- 
hausted, roll out twice or three times more, 
then keep on ice until wanted. 

Home-made Apple Pie.— Line a buttered 
pie-tin with pie-crust, as above, or puff paste ; 
cut some of it in strips three-quarters of an inch 



MINCE PIE. 



wide ; wet the edge of the paste in the tin, and 
arrange a strip around the rim ; cut the top of 
the border slightly, and add another rim. Peel, 
quarter, and core a few of the best sour apples 
obtainable. Cut each quarter in three pieces ; 
arrange them neatly in the pie-tin, slightly 
mound-shaped in the center ; to each pie add a 
teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, half a salt- 
spoonful of freshly ground cloves, and sugar — 
three ounces of which will make the pie moder- 
ately sweet, and four to five ounces decidedly 
sweet. Bake thirty minutes. While baking 
beat a pint of cold cream in a bowl surrounded 
with ice, whisk it thoroughly with a baker's 
egg-whip or beater until a substantial froth is 
formed, and keep it on ice until wanted. When 
the pies are done and have cooled, add a mound 
of the whipped cream, and when the pie is 
about to be served let the head of the family 
state emphatically to those at table that the 
under-crust is not to be eaten. Serve a spoon 
with this kind of a pie instead of a fork. When 
variety is required a meringue may be used 
instead of the whipped cream. In this case it 
should be returned to the oven a moment to 
color the top slightly. 

Minoe Pie.— There must be a proper time to 
eat so hearty a dish as mince-pie, but it certainly 




52 



MINCE PIE. 



is not at the end of a heavy Thanksgiving din- 
ner. Even plum-pudding is, in my judgment, 
altogether too heavy to serve as a dessert after the 
numerous rich viands of a holiday dinner, and 
yet to ignore them upon such occasions would 
seem to be striking a blow at our long-estab- 
lished customs. If they must be served to bring 
back the pleasant memories of our youth, make 
the portions very small. 

The prepared mincemeat of our first-class 
grocers is recommended to small families, as its 
ingredients are more perfectly blended than when 
the compound is made in small quantities. If, 
however, it is desired to make it at home, do so 
as follows : Put into a chopping-bowl half a 
pound of lean, boiled meat, a quarter of a pound 
of suet, three pounds of sliced apple, and chop 
all together very fine. Remove this and put in 
the bowl a pound of sweet almonds, blanched ; 
chop them fine with a pound of seedless raisins ; 
add these to the meat, and also add a pound of 
washed currants, half a tablespoonful of salt, the 
juice and rind of two lemons, a pound and a 
half of light C sugar, a tablespoonful of mixed 
ground spice, and a quarter of a pound of 
chopped candied orange-peel. Boil down a 
quart of good soup-stock two- thirds, and add to 
the mixture. Put all in a porcelain-lined slew- 



MINCE PIE. 



53 



pan, and simmer on the back of the range half 
an hour ; while warm add a pint of good brandy, 
and put it away in jars. 

Line the pie-plates with the crust or puff paste, 
add the mince, and put a butteried paper over 
them ; bake, remove from the oven, and add to 
the top of each the beaten whites of eggs made 
as for meringue ; return to the oven a moment 
to slightly color the top, and serve hot. The 
top crust being avoided and the under crust not 
being eaten, much of the terror of mince-pie 
is removed. Citron, or, in fact, any similar 
preserved fruits, may be substituted for the 
orange-peel. 



THE BOOK OF ENTREES 



CONTENTS. 



PAGB 

REMARKS ON ENTRIES, ... 9 
ENTRIES OF SHELL-FISH, ETC. 



Crab Crooufttes 


. II 


Crab Patties a la Bechamel, 


II 


Crabs A l'Americaine, 


• 13 


Crabs, Deviled, .... 


13 


Crayfish, Saut6, on Toast, 


• 13 


Curry of Lobster, .... 


14 


Cutlet of Lobster, Tomato Sauce, 


. 14 


Green Turtle Steak, Epicurean, 


• 15 


Lobster Croquettes, with Peas, 


• 15 


Lobsters en Brochette, . 


16 


Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie, 


. 16 


Oyster Patties, .... 


16 


Oysters a la Poulette, 


. 17 


Pie of Oysters and Scallops, 


17 


Prawns, Deviled, en Coquille, 


. 18 


Prawns, Saut^, A la Marengo, 


18 


Scalloped Oysters, 


. 19 


Small Patties of Scallops, 


19 


Soft-Shell Clams, Scalloped, 


. 19 



4 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Stewed Lobster, A la Creole, . 20 

Stewed Terrapin 21 

Vol-au-Vent of Shrimps and Lobsters, 2 1 

ENTRIES OF POULTRY AND GAME. 
Chicken, Brais^, with new Carrots, 23 
Chicken Curry, . . . . .24 
Chicken Fricassee, with Mushrooms, 24 
Chicken Fricassee, with Peas, . 25 
Chicken Hash on Rice Toast, . . 26 
Chicken Patties, ... .26 
Chicken, Saut6, Sauce Bordelaise, . 27 
Curry of Venison, . . . .27 
Duckling Pot Roast, . . . .28 
Fried Chicken. Cream Sauce, , 28 
Goslings a la Chasseur, . . .29 
Minced Turkey with Poached Egg, 29 

Rabbit Curry, 30 

Reed Birds, A la Clement, . . 31 
Salmi of Venison, Port Wine Sauce, 31 
Sauce Bordelaise, . . . .32 
Spring Chicken, Hungarian Style, 32 
Squabs, Saut6, A la Marengo, . . 32 
Squirrel Pot-Pie, Hunters* Style, 33 

ENTR^:ES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbread Croquettes with Peas, 35 
Sweetbreads A la Milanaise, . . 36 



CONTENTS. 5 
PAGE 

Sweetbreads A la Perigord, . . 36 

Sweetbreads, Brais^, with Sorrel, . 36 

Sweetbreads en Brochette, . . 37 

Sweetbreads, Larded, with Peas, . 37 

Sweetbreads, Mac6doine, . . 38 

ENTRIES OF VEGETABLES 

Artichokes, Stuffed, • • • 39 

Baked Tomatoes, . . . .40 

Cauliflower, au Parmesan, . . 40 

Cauliflower, Tomato Sauce, . . 40 

Celery, Brais^, with Gravy, , . 41 

Celery Croquettes, . . . .41 

Field Mushrooms on Toast, . . 41 

Kohl-Rabi a la Cr6me, . . .42 

Macaroni, au Gratin, ... 43 

New Onions' au Gratin, . . .43 

Okra, Stuffed, .... 43 

Oyster-Plant, au Gratin, . . .44 

Peppers, Stuffed, .... 44 

Potato Croquettes, . . . .44 

Rice Croquettes 45 

Stuffed Tomatoes, . . . .45 

ENTREES OF FISH. 

Codfish Tongues, . . . .46 

Curry of Eels, with Rice, . . 46 

Eels en Mateloite, au Gratin, . 47 



6 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Fillet of Bluefish, au Gratin, . 47 

Fillet of Pompano, Cream Sauce, . 47 

Fillet of Salmon Trout, . . 48 

Fillet of Sole, Sauce Tartare, . . 48 

Fresh Sturgeon Steak Marinade, . 49 

Frogs' Legs A la Poulette, . . .49 

Frogs' Legs A la Secret, ... 50 

Frogs' Legs, Fried, Sauce Tartare, . 50 

ROYANS A LA VaTEL, . . . - Si 

Salmon Croquettes, . . . .51 
Sauce Tartare, . . .52 

Shad Roe A la Poulette, . . .52 
Smelts with Tomatoes, au Gratin, . 53 
Stewed Eels, German Style, . .53 
Vol-au-Vent of Frogs* Legs, . . 54 

ENTREES OF BEEF. 
Beef, A la Mode, .... 54 
Beef, Brais^, A la Mac^doine, . .55 
Beef, Brais^, Hungarian Style, . 56 
Beef, Brais^, with Young Carrots, . 56 
Beefsteak Pie, . . .56 
Filet Mignon, Sauce Bordelaise, . 57 
Fillet of Beef, Sauce Bearnaise, . 57 
Hamburg Steak, , . . .57 
Roast Sirix)in of Beef, Yorkshire 
Pudding, 58 



CONTENTS. 7 
PAGB 

Sauce Bearnaise, . .60 
Sauce Bordelaise, . . .61 
Tongue with Spatzen, Boilep, .61 
Tripe Lyonnaise, .... 62 
Tripe with Clams, a la Poulette, . 62 
Tripe with Oysters, . . . .63 

ENTRIES OF CALF'S HEAD. 

Calf's Head, 63 

Calf's Head A la Poulette, . • 64 

Calf's Head en Tortue, . , 64 

Calf's Head, Sauce Vinaigrette, . 66 

Calf's Head, Sauce Tartars, . . 66 

Calf's Head, Terrapin Style, . 67 

Minced Calf's Head, . , .67 

ENTRIES OF LAMB. 

Breast of Lamb, with Peas, . . 68 

Epigramme of Lamb, Mac^doine, . 69 

Fricassee of Lamb, with Peas, . . 69 

Lamb Chops, with French Peas, . 70 

Lamb Fritters, Tomato Sauce, . . 70 

Lamb's Head, Stuffed, . . .71 

Lamb's Tongue ON Toast, . . .71 

Tomato Sauce, . . . • 7* 



8 



CONTENTS. 



ENTRIES OF MUTTON. 

Cold Mutton with Pur^e of Toma- 

"^^ES, 

Minced Mutton with Poached Egg, . 73 
Mutton Cutlets A la Maintenon, 73 
Plain Mutton Curry, 7. 

ENTRIES OF PORK. 
Broiled Pork Tenderloin, . . .76 
Tenderloin of Pork with Fried Ap- 
^^^s, ^7 

ENTRIES OF VEAL. 

Curry of Veal, 

Epigrammes of Veal, ... 78 
Fricandeau of Veal, . . .78 
Fricassee of Veal with Oyster-Plant, 79 
Ragout of Veal, Jardiniere, . . 80 
Veal Croquettes with String-Beans, 81 
Veal Cutlet a la Proven^ale, . 81 
Veal Cutlet, Broiled, with Sorrel, . 82 
Veal Cutlet, German Style, . . 83 
Veal Cutlet, Saut6, with Pur^e of 
Carrots, 83 



REMARKS ON ENTRIES. 

Entries are the middle dishes of the feast, 
and not the principal course, as many suppose ; 
they are a series of dainty side dishes, in the 
preparation of which the cook demonstrates the 
extent of her capabilities. Should they be pre- 
pared in a careless, indifferent manner, they cloy 
the palate and prevent that much-abused organ 
from appreciating the more important dishes of 
the feast. They should not only be nicely pre- 
pared, but much care and ingenuity should be 
shown in the arraying of them on the platter. 
To prepare palate-pleasing entrees one must 
study to please the eye quite as much as the 
palate. 

Many of the recipes in this little work may 
be served at breakfast and at lunch, while the 
shell-fish entries will be found most appropriate 
for Lenten and fast day meals. 



ENTRIES OF SHELL-FISH, ETC. 



Crab Croquettes.— -Take one pound of crab 
meat, gently press out the juice and put it in a 
bowl, with a tablespoonful of fine crumbs, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pep- 
per, a dash of anchovy essence, the yolks of two 
eggs, and a very little cold water. If the eggs 
are not enough to make it the proper consist- 
ency bind the ingredients together and place on 
ice until wanted ; then work into corks or cone- 
shaped forms, dip them in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

Crab Patties, & la Bechamel.— Prepare the 
shells the same as for oyster patties (which see). 
Put into a saucepan half an ounce of butter, 
half a medium-sized onion minced, half a pound 
of minced raw veal, one small carrot shredded; 
toss about for two minutes to fry but not to 
color ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir it 
about with the vegetables, then add three pints 
of hot water, or if convenient use hot soup-stock 
instead ; add a pint of boiling cream. Season 
with half a teaspoonful of salt and. a saltspoon- 



12 CRAB PATTIES, A LA BECHAMEL. 

ful of white pepper. Simmer one hour and 
strain into a saucepan. Add to each pint of 
sauce half a wine-glassful of cream. Simmer 
until reduced enough to coat a spoon ; strain it 
again into a crock and whisk it until cold, to 
prevent a thick top from forming. When wanted 
for patties, or anything else, boil one pint of it 
with an ounce of butter, whisking it thoroughly. 
Prepare a quart of solid crab meat, either picked 
from the shells or purchased already prepared ; 
add it to a pint of the sauce ; strew in a few 
shredded mushrooms ; fill the crab-shells with 
this, and serve. On fast days omit veal and 
stock from meats, and use milk instead. 

[This very excellent sauce was named after the 
Marquis de Bechamel, a worthless court-lounger 
and steward under Louis XIV. Why his un- 
savory memory has been perpetuated by a gas- 
tronomic monument of worth, is one of those 
inexplicable historical facts that students of the 
art of cookery are continually stumbling upon 
The close observer will not fail, however, tc 
discover that nearly all dishes named after old 
French celebrities were stolen bodily from old 
Venetian and Provencal books of cookery, and 
were re-baptized after some of the most notorious 
profligates of the 1 7 th and 1 8th centuries. Many 



CRABS A LA AMERICAINE. 13 

of these old cook books, like " Opusculum de 
Obsoniis de Honesta Voluptate," a volume print- 
ed at Venice, 1475 (^^^ first cookery book pub- 
lished), and others, contain recipes almost iden- 
tical with French cookery of the past few cen- 
turies.] 

Crabs ft I'Americaine.— Pick out the meat 
from the shells of four dozen boiled hard-shell 
crabs ; squeeze out the water gently ; put the 
meat in a bowl, and add the yolks of two raw 
eggs, salt, cayenne, and a very little chopped 
parsley, and two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs; 
roll the mixture into small balls or cakes ; dip 
in egg batter, roll in cracker-crumbs and fry to 
a delicate brown. They may be served plain or 
with tomato sauce. 

Crabs, Deviled.— Pick out the meat of four 
dozen boiled hard-shell crabs, put it into a 
bowl and add a half-pint of mayonnaise. Mix 
carefully with your hand, wash a dozen of the 
shells, put a little of the mixture into each, grate 
a loaf of dry bread, season a pint of it with salt 
and pepper ; sprinkle it over the crabs evenly ; 
make twelve little balls of butter about the size 
of hickor>'-nuts ; put one on top of each crab 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Crayfish, Saut6, on Toast— Boil the crayfish 
in the shell and when cold remove the meat 
from the tail, split it in two lengthwise and re- 



14 CURRY OF LOBSTER. 

move the thread-like intestine. Put in the 
frying-pan a teaspoonful of butter ; when hot, 
toss the crayfish in it until slightly brown ; add 
salt and pepper and a dash of walnut catsup. 
Just before serving sprinkle over prepared dry 
toast a very little sherry, then add the crayfish 
to the toast, and send to table with lemon 
quartered. 

Curry of Lobster.— Remove the meat from 
two boiled lobsters, cut it into neat pieces, take 
all green fat and coral and set them aside, mix 
the green fat with a heaping spoonful of curry 
powder. Squeeze out the juice of three limes 
and add to it half a teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar. Put into a frying-pan an ounce of but- 
ter ; when creamed add a teaspoonful of minced 
onion browned a little ; now add the mixed 
curry powder, dissolve a teaspoonful of rice 
flour in cold water, add this to a pint of hot 
water or soup-stock, simmer until thick, now 
add the lobster and simmer twenty minutes 
longer. Wash and dry the coral, separate it. 
Prepare a border of rice on a dish and over it 
sprinkle the coral and eggs (if any), pour the 
curry in the centre, and serve. 

Cutlet of Lobster, Tomato Sauce.— Mince 
the meat of a one-pound can of lobster ; add to 
it the yolks of two eggs, half a teaspoonful of 



GREEN TURTLE STEAK, EPICUREAN. I5 



salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, two ounces 
5f butter, and a tablespoonful of grated bread 
crumbs. Mix and shape the mixture in the 
form of cutlets ; dip them in beaten egg, roll 
them in crumbs and fry in very hot fat. 
Stick a two-inch piece of macaroni in the small 
end, put a fancy paper on it and send to table 
with tomato sauce, (See page 72 for Tomato 
Sauce ) 

Green Turtle Steak, Epicurean.— Raw tur- 
tle steaks may be had at any first-class restau- 
rant, and occasionally at the fish-stands. It is 
not advantageous for small families to purchase 
whole turtles, or rather tortoises, for soup and 
steaks. Trim away the thigh-bone, and flatten 
the meat in the form of a steak. Melt two 
ounces of butter in a chafing-dish ; when very 
hot, add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
a tablespoonful of currant jelly, a gill of port 
wine, and a little salt. Stew the steak in this 
until tender, and serve from the chafing-dish. 

Lobster Croquettes, with Peas.— Boil one- 
half pint of milk, thicken it with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and let it become cold. Mince the 
meat of a one-pound can of lobster, or one 
pound of fresh lobster ; when very fine, add a 
saltspoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of 
white pepper. Moisten the lobster mince with 



15 



LOBSl'ERS EN BROCHETTE. 



the thickened milk and work the whole to a 
paste ; add very little bread-crumb if too thin ; 
let it become amalgamated over the range and 
place in the ice-box until wanted ; then shape it 
into neat rolls or cones ; dip them in egg and 
crumbs and fry in plenty of hot fat. Arrange 
the forms neatly on a dish, put round them a 
border of peas, and serve. 

Lobsters en Brochette.— Instead of boiling 
the lobster tails, cut them in pieces, and ar- 
range these on small skewers, alternated with 
small pieces of bacon ; brush melted butter 
over them, and either broil or bake them ; serve 
with sauce tartare (which see on page 52). 

Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie.— One 
pound of best canned salmon, one pint of solid 
oysters, half a pint of oyster liquid ; cover the 
bottom of the dish with neat pieces of the sal- 
mon, season with salt and pepper and an ounce 
of butter rolled in flour, add a few oysters and 
so on until the ingredients are used. Pour in 
the liquid of both, and cover the top with paste. 
Bake in a moderate oven. There should be 
liquid enough to have the ingredients moist 
when served. 

Oyster Patties.— Roll out a pound of light 
puff-paste, half an inch in thickness ; cut it into 
rounds with a cake-cutter two inches in dia- 



OYSTERS A LA IHDULETTE. 



17 



meter ; press a small cutter, one inch in dia- 
meter, on each round, one-fourth of an inch 
deep. Place them on a buttered tin, brush a 
little beaten egg over them, and bake in a quick 
oven. When done, remove the center and a 
little of the inside. Scald or, as it is called, 
blanch three dozen oysters ; drain. Put into a 
saucepan two ounces of butter, whisk it to a 
cream ; add a teaspoonful of flour, stir free 
from lumps ; add a heaping saltspoonful of salt, 
and a pepperspoonful of white pepper; whisk 
into it half a pint each of hot cream and the 
oyster liquor ; allow it to simmer a few minutes 
and to thicken ; then add the oysters and a 
"squeeze "of lemon juice ; when hot fill the 
shells, and serve. If nutmeg is not objected to, 
a little may be used. 

Oysters & la Poulette.— Blanch [scald] a 
dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain them 
and add to the liquor, salt, half an ounce of 
butter, the juice of half a lemon, a gill of cream 
and a teaspoonful of dissolved flour. Beat the 
yolk of one egg and add to the sauce. Stir 
until the sauce thickens, place the oysters on a 
hot dish, pour the sauce over them, add a very 
little chopped parsley, and serve. 

Fie of Oysters and Scallops.— Take one 
pint of fresh scallops and wash them in cold 



1 8 PRAWNS, DEVlLIlD, EN COQUlLLfi. 

water ; drain, and dry them in a napkin. Cut 
a few slices of fat bacon in strips small enough 
to insert the ends in a larding-needle ; lard the 
scallops with them, and dredge them slightly 
with flour. Select one quart of fat oysters ; 
line a baking-dish with puff-paste ; add the 
scallops and oysters in layers ; season with salt, 
pepper, and a dash of mace. Divide an ounce 
of butter into little balls, roll them in flour, and 
put them between the layers ; add the oyster 
liquor. Cover with a top crust ; bake forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Prawns, Deviled, en Coquille.— Simmer a 
quart of prawns fifteen minutes in water flav- 
ored with a little sharp vinegar, drain and cut 
them very fine. Add two ounces of butter, a 
gill of water, salt and pepper, the yolks of two 
eggs and bread-crumbs to absorb the moisture. 
Mix to a paste. Partly fill the shells, cover 
with crumbs, add a small pat of butter to each 
and bake to a delicate brown. 

Prawns, Saut6, d. la Marengo. — Wash one 
pint of ** shelled " prawns, simmer them twenty 
minutes, drain and toss them a moment in a 
little hot olive oil ; remove them, add a sprig 
of parsley, half a dozen button mushrooms, a 
gill of hot water, salt and pepper, and thicken 
with a little flour. Put the prawns on a dish, 



SMALL PATTIES OF SCALLOPS. 1 9 

pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried 
eggs and slices of tomatoes fried. 

Soalloped Oysters.— Put in the bottom of a 
yellow dish two ounces of sweet butter, divided 
into little pieces. Add a layer of raw oysters 
and cover them with cracker- dust or bread 
crumbs and add salt and pepper to taste ; an- 
other layer of oysters, and so on, until the dish 
is full, the last or top layer to be crumbs, and 
between each layer there should be a small 
amount of butter. Moisten the ingredients 
with a liberal quantity of oyster liquid, put 
small butter balls on top of the dish and bake 
a delicate brown color. Oysters were formerly 
baked in a scalloped or shell-shaped dish, hence 
the name. 

SmaU Patties of ScaUops.~Wash a pint of 
scallops, drain, cut them up, and scald them ; 
then put them in just milk enough to prevent 
burning. Add salt and white pepper, simmer 
until quite tender, and thicken with half a tea- 
spoonful of flour dissolved in cold water. Pour 
this mixture in small patty-shells (see recipe for 
Oyster Patties), and serve after the soup and 
before the fish, or as an entree. 

Soft-Shell Clams, Scalloped.— Purchase a 
dozen large soft clams in the shell and three 
dozen opened clams. Ask the dealer to open 
*he first dozen, care being used not to injure 



20 STEWED LOBStER, A LA CREOLE. 

the shells, which are to be used in cooking the 
clams. Clean the shells well and put two soft 
clams on each half shell ; add to each a dash 
of white pepper and half a teaspoonful of 
minced celery. Cut a slice of fat bacon into 
the smallest dice, add four of these to each 
shell, strew over the top a thin layer of cracker 
dust ; place a pat of table butter on top, and 
bake in the oven until brown. They are de- 
lightful when properly prepared. 

Stewed Lobster, & la Creole.— Remove the 
tail part of the meat from three green lobsters ; 
split them in two lengthwise ; remove the 
thread-like intestine. Melt an ounce of butter 
in a deep frying-pan ; add the lobster ; toss it 
for a few minutes in the butter, add salt and 
pepper and half a pint of hot water ; cover and 
simmer three-quarters of an hour, drain and 
reduce the water one-half by rapid boiling. Put 
in a saucepan half an ounce of butter and a 
tablespoonful of minced onion ; fry brown and 
add three peeled and sliced tomatoes, one sweet 
pepper, four okra pods cut small, and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Allow these to cook fifteen 
minutes, add the broth, and simmer until re- 
duced to a pulp ; rub through a sieve, put this 
puree on a hot dish, place the lobster on top, 
add a little lemon juice, and serve. 



STEWED TERRAPINT. 



21 



Stewed Terrapin.— Of the numerous ways 
and styles of preparing terrapin I prefer this 
one. Select two six-and-a-half to seven-inch 
terrapins ; plunge them in boiling water for 
five minutes ; take them out, and, when cool, 
rub off the skin found on the legs and neck ; 
remove the under-shell carefully ; next, re- 
move the liver, cut off the gall-bag from it 
and throw it away, for the bursting of the bag 
would spoil the whole dish. The other parts 
to be rejected are the claws, head, and sad-bag ; 
the remainder should be cut into neat-sized 
pieces. Put these in a stew-pan or chafing-dish 
and stew long enough to become tender — ^about 
one-half to three-quarters of an hour. Now 
put in a chafing-dish a pat of butter rolled in a 
little flour, a dash of cayenne, a gill of sherr}% 
two drops of soy, and a saltspoonful of salt. 
When hot beat it with a fork, and add the ter- 
rapin, and eggs if there are any. The creamy 
sauce so universally met with consists of a com- 
bination of cream, butter, and eggs, which 
is very nice for those who like that sort of 
thing. 

Vol-au-Vent of Shrimps and Oysters.— 

This term is applied to a delicate pie made of 
the lightest kind of puff-paste, which is cut in 
a round or oval form and baked. It rises a few 



22 VOL-AU-VENT OF SHRIMPS AND OYSTERS. 



inches in the process of baking and is afterward 
made into a case by scooping out the center, 
after which it is returned to the oven a few 
moments to dry the inside. The case thus 
formed is then filled with a nicely prepared 
mince, fricassee or compound to suit the taste. 
For that under consideration, sift one pound 
of flour, make a hole in the center and add 
two-thirds of a teaspoonful of salt ; mix gradu- 
ally with it a gill and a half of ice-water. Be- 
fore working to a paste add, in very small 
quantities at a time, a gill more of water. 
Dredge the rolling-pin and board with flour, and 
roll out the paste. Wash one pound of butter in 
ice-water to free it from salt, then squeeze out 
all moisture ; lay the butter on the paste, flatten 
it out gently, fold the paste over the butter 
and pat it evenly to form a square, roll it light- 
ly from you as far as the arms will reach, then 
fold over one-third and fold the other third 
over this, roll out again and so on six times, 
resting a few minutes between each turn. Fin- 
ally roll it out to an inch in thickness. Place a 
plate, or any other round or oval form of the 
size required, upon the paste and cut around it 
with a plain or fluted knife previously dipped 
in hot water. Turn the form over on a baking- 
tin ; brush over the top only with egg. Make 



CHICKEN BRAISl^, WITH NEW CARROTS. 2^ 

an incision half an inch deep and within an 
inch of the edge all round the form. Put the 
form of paste in the oven, and bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour. When done remove the cover, 
which should have risen evenly, scoop out the 
soft paste in the center, and brush egg over the 
inside walls and return it to the oven a few 
minutes longer, when it will be ready to receive 
the following : 

Beat three ounces of floured butter to a cream 
over a moderate lire. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with half a pint of cream, add salt and 
pepper, whisk it into the butter, add the juice 
of half a lemon and set it aside to keep warm. 
Scald twenty-five oysters a moment and drain 
them. Take a one-pound can of shrimps, scald 
and drain them. Arrange them alternately in 
the prepared vol-au-vent case, pour the sauce 
over them, and serve. 



ENTRIES OF POULTRY AND GAME. 

Chicken Braisd, with New Carrots. — Di- 
vide the chicken at the joints, remove the skin 
and refuse. Mince a small onion quite fine 



and fry it brown ; add a gill of gravy and then 
add the chicken ; toss it about in this a few 
moments and add a slice of ham or strip of ba- 
con, six young carrots, salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of powdered herbs ; cover and simmer an hour 
and a half ; remove the chicken, add half a 
pint of rich gravy or stock to the dish and a 
slice of lemon ; simmer half an hour, strain, 
thicken, and pour over the chicken. Arrange a 
border of whole young carrots, boiled, around 
the dish, and serve. 

Chicken Curry.— Fine-grained poultry do 
not make good curry, as the curry powder is 
unable to permeate the centre of the flesh. A 
coarse-grained bird will be found the best for 
this purpose. Boil the chicken in the usual 
manner, saving the broth. When cold cut it 
neatly, and rub the curry powder into the meat. 
Cut up one large sour apple and half an onion, 
fry these in butter ; add the meat, toss it about 
a moment, and add half a pint of the chicken 
broth and a tablespoonful of chutney, simmer 
until thoroughly amalgamated and serve with 
rice or shredded maize. A little sugar is an 
improvement and may thicken the sauce, but I 
like it without flour. 

Chicken Fricaasee, with Mushrooms.— 
Take a dry-picked chicken, separate the joints. 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE, WITH PEAS. 25 



cut each joint into pieces, remove the skin. 
Put the pieces into a saucepan with one onion, 
salt and pepper, and a few soup herbs, and water 
enough to cover them ; simmer gently three- 
quarters of an hour, remove scum as it arises ; 
when the chicken is quite tender remove it, 
strain the liquid. Put into a saucepan an 
ounce of butter, heat it, and whisk it thoroughly; 
thicken a cupful of the broth with a teaspoonful 
of flour, add it to the butter; do not let it lx)il, 
whisk it well, add gradually half the quantity 
of broth, draw the pan from the fire. Beat up 
the yolks of two eggs with a little cream, and 
add it to the remaining warm broth. Now add 
this to the sauce containing the butter, let stand 
a moment on back of range while you cut up a 
dozen button mushrooms, add these to the 
sauce, now add the chicken, and, when all is 
quite warm, serve. 

Chicken Fricassee, with Peas.— Select a 
dry-picked young fowl ; cut into joints, remove 
the skin, rinse in warm water, dip into cold 
water, drain, and dredge with flour. Put them 
in a warm saucepan and cover with hot water ; 
add salt and pepper, a sprig of parsley, and a 
piece of lemon peel, simmer two hours and re- 
move the chicken. Beat up the yolk of one egg 
with a gill of cream, add it to the warm sauc^. 



26 



CHICKEN HASH. 



and whisk thoroughly. Arrange the chicken on 
a dish, pour the sauce over it, add as a border 
a quantity of hot, fresh or canned peas, and 
serve. 

Chicken Hash on Bice Toast.— This is an 
excellent way for using the remains of poultry. 
Trim the meat from the bones, remove the skin, 
and cut the meat fine, put in a pan ; add a little 
water to moisten it, add salt and white pepper. 
When the water is evaporated, arrange the 
chicken neatly on rice toast, and if desired a 
poached egg may be placed on top. Prepare 
the rice as follows : Boil the rice the night be- 
fore, pour it into a yellow dish and place it in 
the ice-box with a weight upon it. The next 
morning cut it in half-inch slices, brush a little 
butter over them ; place the slices between the 
double broiler and toast to a delicate brown ; 
pour a little melted butter over them, add salt 
and pepper and the juice of an orange. 

Chicken Patties.— Roll out a pound of light 
puff -paste, half an inch in thickness ; cut it in- 
to rounds with a cake-cutter two inches in 
diameter; press a small cutter, one inch in 
diameter, on each round, one-fourth of an inch 
deep. Place them on a buttered tin, brush a 
little beaten egg over them, and bake in a quick 
oven. When done remove the centre and a 



CHICKEN, SAUT^, ETC. 



27 



little of the inside. Cut up the white meat of 
a cold chicken into neat small pieces. Put into 
a saucepan half a pint each of clear chicken 
broth and cream, one ounce of butter in small 
pieces that have been rolled in flour, salt and 
pepper, and a very little nutmeg. Place the 
saucepan on the range where it will simmer 
nearly to boiling point ; then remove and let it 
cool a few minutes ; beat up the yolks of two 
eggs with a half-teaspoonful of flour moistened 
with cold milk ; add to the saucepan, and place 
near the fire until it thickens, then add the 
chicken ; heat it through ; fill the patty-shells 
neatly with the mixture, and serve. 

Chioken, Sautd, Sauoe Bordelaise.— Singe, 
draw, and disjoint a medium-sized chicken; put 
into a large frying-pan an ounce of butter, add 
the chicken, toss the pieces about and turn them 
so they will cook evenly ; add salt and pepper; 
allow twenty-five minutes for cooking, then ar- 
range neatly on a hot dish, and serve with a 
sauce Bordelaise. {See page 32.) 

Curry of Veni8on.--Cold roast venison 
makes a very good breakfast curry, as the meat 
is invariably tender and very digestible. Put in 
a frying-pan, in a teaspoonful of butter, half a 
teaspoonful of dry flour and brown slightly. 
Add a clove of garlic and a tablespoonful of 



28 



DUCKLING POT ROAST. 



minced apple, half a teaspoonful of curry pow- 
der, and half a pint of hot water, soup-stock, or 
venison gravy from the roast of the day before. 
Simmer and set on the back of the range. Cut 
the meat in neat pieces, add it to the sauce, and 
when quite hot send to table. Before serving 
add the juice of an orange. 

Duckling Pot Roast.— This is a very good 
way to cook this very acceptable bird. Put in- 
to a shallow crock a thin strip of bacon and a 
tablespoonful of mixed whole spice. Clean and 
truss two ducklings, put them in a crock, and 
add hot water or soup-stock enough to come up 
half-way on the birds. Then add a sprig of 
celery and two of parsley ; place a narrow strip 
of bacon over each bird ; cover close and set 
the crock in a moderate oven, where the birds 
will cook slowly two hours. Remove the duck- 
lings, strain the sauce, and reduce it one-third 
by boiling ; add a gill of dark wine ; thicken 
with a dash of brown flour ; simmer fifteen 
minutes ; add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and 
serve with the duck. A small quantity of the 
sauce may be boiled down until thick as cream — 
this is called glaze — it is brushed over the bird 
before serving. 

Fried Chicken^ Cream Sauce.— Select a 
spring chicken, clean it nicely, and divide it in- 



GOSLINGS A LA CHASSEUR. 29 

to four pieces. Put two ounces of butter in a 
frying-pan, and when hot add the chicken, 
which should have been seasoned with salt and 
pepper, and rolled in, or rather dredged with, 
flour. Fry the chicken to a golden brown; ar- 
range the pieces neatly on a dish, pour the fol- 
lowing sauce round them, and serve : Dissolve 
a tablespoonful of flour in a gill of cold milk, 
and add to it half a pint of lukewarm milk. 
Slightly melt an ounce of butter ; add a little 
salt and pepper ; whisk the milk into the butter, 
and when thick serve with the chicken. 

Goslings & la Chassexir.— Singe the bird 
clean, and quarter it. Let it stand in a bath, 
or marinade, of wine and spices four hours, 
drain, melt a little butter in a pan, and when 
very hot toss the pieces in it until partly cooked. 
Add half a pint of hot water, or, if possible, 
clear soup ; cover and simmer an hour ; add a 
few spoonfuls of the marinade and a teaspoon- 
ful of onion vinegar ; remove the bird, skin off 
all fat, add a little sherry to the sauce — say 
about half a gill — thicken the sauce with half a 
teaspoonful of browned flavor, pour it over the 
bird, and serve. 

Minoed Turkey with Poached Egg.— A 
very appetizing dish is made of cold boiled or 
roast turkey. Trim off all skin and most of the 



30 



RABBIT CURRY. 



fat, especially that on the back ; pick out the 
little tidbits in the recesses. Cut off all that 
will not look neat when sliced cold. Season 
with salt and pepper and a tablespoonful or two 
of minced celery, chop up the meat, put it in a 
pan with a little butter or turkey fat, to prevent 
burning, and just a suspicion of onion. Moisten 
with a little broth made from the turkey bones. 
Poach one or two eggs for each person ; arrange 
the minced meat neatly on slices of buttered 
toast, place the egg on top, and serve. The 
above mode of preparing a breakfast-dish is not 
only economical, but produces one of the most 
delightful dishes that can be made. Almost 
any kind of boiled or roast meats and poultry 
or game can be utilized in this way. 

Babbit Curry.— Select two fine rabbits, cut 
them into neat pieces, put in an earthen crock 
a thin slice of bacon, add a few pieces of rabbit, 
sprinkle over it a little curry powder, salt, fresh 
grated cocoanut, and a dozen raisins ; put in 
another layer of rabbit, and season it as the 
first layer ; repeat until the rabbit is all used, 
and you have also used the juice and meat of 
one fresh or half a pound of dr>^ cocoanut. 
Moisten the whole with a mild Catawba or 
Rhine wine, let this stand twenty-four hours, 
then place the crock in a pot of water and let it 



REED BIRDS A LA CLEMENT. 3 1 

simmer two hours, keeping it well covered. 
When done serve it on a flat dish, and serve rice 
separately. 

Beed Birds & la Clement.— Mr. H. G. Cle- 
ment, a Philadelphia epicure of no mean repute, 
prepares reed birds as follows : Remove heads 
and entrails, and clean the birds nicely, and put 
a large oyster inside each bird. Select a few 
good-sized sweet or Irish potatoes ; cut them in 
two crosswise, dig out part of the insides, and 
put a bird between the two pieces of each po- 
tato ; press together, tie them firmly, and bake 
thirty minutes. When done, remove the string 
and re-tie them with neat, narrow, white ribbon 
or tape. 

Salmi of Venison^ Port Wine Sauce.— 

Put in a frying-pan a tablespoonf ul of butter and 
a teaspoonful of dry flour ; when brown add a 
gill of hot water, a clove of garlic, a saltspoonf ul 
of salt, a dash of cayenne and enough ground 
nutmeg to be perceptible to the taste when the 
sauce is completed. Simmer five minutes and 
add half a pint of port wine. Strain the sauce 
and keep it warm. If cold roast venison is to 
be used, cut it up and add it to the sauce ; if 
raw venison is to be used, cut it in neat pieces, 
fry them slightly, then let them simmer in a 
little stock for half an hour, drain and add to 



32 



SAUCE BORDELAISE. 



the sauce. The liquid may be used to form the 
basis of the sauce if desired. Before serving, 
squeeze over the dish the juice of an orange. 

Sauce Bordelaise.— Put a tablespoonful of 
chopped white onions into a hot saucepan with 
a little butter, white pepper and salt, and half 
a pint of white wine ; reduce it, by boiling, to a 
quarter of a pint, then add nearly a pint of 
sauce Espagnole, or dark, thick beef gravy; boil 
a few moments, add a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and half a tablespoonful of chopped 
capers ; mix together, and serve. 

Spring Chioken, Hungarian Style.— Dis- 
joint a four pound chicken ; put it in a stew-pan 
with a quart of lukewarm water, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of paprika, a 
blade of mace, and half a teaspoonful of wet 
flour ; simmer slowly two hours and a half. 
Paprika Hungarian red pepper made from the 
sweet pepper, it is very mild and pleasant to 
the taste and is highly recommended for dyspep- 
tics or those troubled with a torpid liver. It 
may be procured from wholesale spice dealers 
and first-class Hungarian restaurants. 

Squabs, Saut6, & la Marengo.— Split the 
squabs in two and fry them in a little olive 
oil ; when a good color and nearly done, add a 
sprig or two of parsley, a pepperspoonful of 



SQUIRREL POT-PIE, ETC. 33 



pepper and six button mushrooms, sliced ; re- 
move the squabs, add a gill of gravy or soup, 
thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, and pour it 
around the squabs, garnish with eggs fried on 
both sides, and serve. 

[Marengo, (Italy), was where the French 
army, commanded by Bonaparte, attacked the 
Austrians, June 14th, 1800. His army was 
retreating, when the arrival of General Desaix 
turned the fortunes of the day. By a treaty 
between the Austrian General, Melas, and Bona- 
parte, signed June 15th, the latter obtained 
twelve strong fortresses, and became master of 
Italy. An impromptu dish prepared after the 
battle, and improved upon by Bonaparte's cook 
upon his return to Paris, was baptized la 
Marengo."] 

Squirrel Pot-pie, Hunters' style.— Skin 
each squirrel by cutting a slit down the inside 
of the hind legs first ; loosen the skin down to 
the tail from the hind quarters, and cut off the 
tail from the body, but not from the skin. Now 
take a firm hold of the body with the left hand 
and draw the skin over the head with the right. 
Cut the skin free from the nose, and while it is 
fresh draw it over a wedge-shaped shingle to 
dry. Remove the heads and entrails, and wash 
the squirrels in cold water ; drain and quarter 



34 



SQUIRREL POT-PIE, ETC. 



them. Put into an earthen crock two large 
strips of bacon ; add four squirrels quartered. 
Put in with them half a bay-leaf, a dozen whole 
pepper-corns bruised, six bruised juniper-ber- 
ries, two cloves of garlic — or, if they are not at 
hand, a sliced onion will answer — half a pint of 
wine vinegar, or a pint of ordinary claret or 
Rhine wine. Add just water enough to cover 
the meat, and let all stand forty-eight hours. 
Cover the crock and put it in a saucepan of 
warm water, and simmer two hours. Then add 
a liberal number of dumplings, and, if there is 
not liquid enough, add a little more hot water 
to the dish. Simmer half an hour longer, 
finally add the juice of an orange, and serve. 

A squirrel pie is made by preparing the meat 
in a marinade as above, then par-boiling the 
whole half an hour and afterwards placing it 
in an earthen dish with dumplings. A top crust 
is then added, and the dish is baked in a mod- 
erate oven, A pie made of squirrels and oysters 
is a very appetizing dish. 

[I have mentioned such seasoning as naturally 
harmonizes with the peculiar flavor of squirrel, 
but individual tastes should be considered when 
preparing this dish. One of the pleasant culin- 
ary recollections of last season was ** stewed 



SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES, ETC. 3$ 

squirrel, Hungarian style " — /. prepared with 
the condiment known as Paprika, which is a 
variety of pepper made from the sweet Spanish 
pepper. A disputed point in the cooking of 
squirrel is whether or no the head should be 
used. Our opinion is that it should not be 
served when there are ladies at table, as it does 
not present an appetizing appearance. ** Stag 
parties" prefer it.] 



ENTRIES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbread Croquettes with Peas.- Boil 
four sweetbreads, chop them very fine and 
pound them to a paste, season with salt and 
pepper and add the yolks of two eggs, two 
ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of cracker 
crumbs ; moisten with a gill of cream, roll into 
balls or cork-shape forms, dip these in beaten 
egg ; roll in crumbs ; repeat the last process and 
fry in boiling fat. Arrange a border of green 
peas around them, and serve. 



36 SWEETBREADS A LA MiLANAlSE. 

Swootbreads d. la Milanaise.— Clean and 
par-boil the sweetbreads, then cut them in slices, 
dip them in melted butter, roll them in grated 
Parmesan cheese, then dip them in beaten egg, 
roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Ser\'e 
with tomato sauce, and garnish with slices of 
lemon. 

Sweetbreads ^ la Perigord.— Select four 
fine sweetbreads, prepare them (as per recipe 
for Sweetbreads, Larded), and lard them if 
desirable' ; strain the sauce, add to it a gill of 
sauce Espagnole or dark rich gravy, a glass of 
wine, a can of mushrooms and four large truffles 
sliced. Simmer the sauce, taste for season- 
ing, put the sweetbreads on a hot dish, sur- 
round them with the sauce, and serve. 

Sweetbreads, Braisd, with Sorrel.— Wash 
four sweetbreads thoroughly, par-boil, and 
when cool, remove nil skin, sinews, and 
ragged edges. Put into a braising pan a slice 
of fat bacon, a gill of gravy, a little fresh herbs, 
salt and pepper, and very little onion ; add the 
four sweetbreads (which may be larded or 
not ). Cover the pan and simmer an hour ; 
add a gill of clear soup, and simmer half an 
hour ; remove the sweetbreads, strain the gravy 
and simmer it until quite thick ; put the sweet- 



SWEETBREADS EN BROCHETTE. 37 

breads on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them 
and surround them with a pur^e of sorrel. 

Sweetbreads en Broohette.— A very good 
way of serving this most excellent daint}^ Small 
sweetbreads are just as good as the larger ones, 
and being very much cheaper are recommended 
for made dishes. Before using them, always 
par-boil them in hot water a few moments, skin 
and trim them neatly. Then they are ready 
for cooking. To cook them en brochette," 
cut them in neat slices, which arrange alternate- 
ly with bacon on a wooden or metal skewer, 
brush a little butter over them, broil, and serve 
on toast. 

Sweetbreads, Larded, with Peas.— Select 
six sweetbreads of equal size, wash them well, 
and par-boil them in water slightly salted ; trim 
off all the ragged edges, remove the skin and 
sinews and put them on ice until wanted. Take 
half a pound of clear, larding pork and cut it 
into strips three inches long and an eighth of 
an inch square, insert one at a time, in the lard- 
ing needle ; firmly press the needle together to 
hold the strip of pork, and insert the needle in 
the upper part of each sweetbread, say a quar- 
ter of an inch deep, force it through and let it 
protrude on the opposite side of the surface, 
within a quarter of an inch of the edge ; draw 



38 SWEETBREADS, MACl^DOINE. 

the Strip of pork through, so as to have nearly 
half an inch of each end of it sticking out. 
Proceed in this manner until the surface has 
two even rows of ends. Put the sweetbreads in 
a pan, add a pint of well-seasoned soup-stock 
or gravy, add salt, six whole pepper-corns, a 
sprig of parsley and soup celery, and a bit of 
whole mace. Cover, and simmer an hour and a 
half, remove the sweetbreads, strain the sauce 
and boil it down one-half ; if not thick, add a 
little browned flour and a tablespoonful of 
sherr>\ Brush part of the thick sauce over the 
sweetbreads and set them in the oven a moment 
to brown, then put them on a hot dish, sur- 
rounded with green peas, and serve the remain- 
der of the sauce in a boat. Should there not 
be sauce enough, thin it out with stock or gravy. 

Sweetbreads, Maoddoine.— Wash, scald, or 
par-boil two sweetbreads ; trim and skin them ; 
cover with boiling water, slightly salted ; add 
half a teaspoonful of mixed spices and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar ; simmer three-quarters of 
an hour, and drain. Put them on a hot dish, 
brush a little beef extract or reduced beef or 
veal soup over them ; arrange a border of mace- 
doine round them, and serve. Mac^doine, or 
prepared mixed vegetables, may be had at the 
grocer's, is more satisfactory than if prepared 



ARTICHOKES, STUFFED. 39 

at home, and is all ready to serve after heat- 
ing a moment. 



ENTRIES OF VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes, Stuffbd.— Trim and wash four 
artichokes ; remove the choke" found in the 
center ; make a stuffing of bread-crumbs nicely 
seasoned with a preparation made as follows : 
Mince half a pound of ham, warm it, and add 
a dozen canned mushrooms chopped fine, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a few blades of 
chives, salt, and pepper. Add the crumbs, and 
moisten with clear soup or hot water ; work all 
to a paste, and fill the artichokes with it. Tie 
each artichoke neatly ; put them in a pan with 
a little butter, to prevent burning, and a pint of 
clear soup ; cover the pan, and let them steam 
in their own vapors until tender. 

The artichoke has been used as a vegetable 
over 300 years. The flower-heads in their im- 
mature state contain the thick, flushy part called 
artichoke bottoms, which is the part most highly 



40 



BAKED TOMATOES. 



prized ; the lower parts of the thick, imbricated 
scales are also eaten. 

The blue flower of the artichoke, either fresh 
or dried, turns milk into an excellent curd for 
cheese. 

Baked Tomatoes.— Cut a thin slice off the 
top of each of four medium-sized tomatoes, 
sprinkle over them a little salt, cayenne, and 
very little cracker-crumbs. Add a small square 
of butter and bake a delicate brown on top. 
Tomatoes prepared in this way are very nice for 
those who dislike the trouble of preparing 
stuffed tomatoes. 

Cauliflower, au Parmesan.— Boil a head of 
cauliflower, in water slightly salted, fifteen min- 
utes ; while boiling put an ounce of butter, a 
tablespoonful of flour, and a pint of water into 
a saucepan ; whisk, and simmer ten minutes ; 
add half an ounce grated Parmesan cheese, and 
boil a little longer ; cut the cauliflower into neat 
pieces, put them in a deep dish, add salt and 
pepper, and the sauce ; sprinkle over it a thick 
layer of Parmesan cheese, and finally add a pat 
of butter ; bake in a quick oven, and send to 
table in the same dish in which it was cooked. 

Cauliflower, Tomato Sauce.— Trim a head 
of cauliflower neatly, and let it stand in salted 
water head downwards three-quarters of an 



CELERY, BRAIS6, ETC. 



41 



hour. Then put it in slightly salted fast boil- 
ing water and boil just long enough for it to be 
cooked, but not mushy when pressed between 
the fingers. Test it with a long needle. After 
twelve minutes* boiling remove the scum that 
arises or it will discolor the cauliflower. Let it 
drain a moment. Put in the centre of a dish a 
liberal quantity of well made hot tomato sauce 
(which see, page 70 ), add the cauliflower, and 
serve as a separate course. 

Celery, Braisd, with Gravy. — Take six 
heads of table celery, trim off the green tops, 
and cut off most of the root end ; simmer in 
hot water five minutes ; put them in a stew-pan 
with enough thick, brown gravy to cover them; 
add a tablespoonful of sherry, simmer ten min- 
utes, and serve. 

Celery Croquettes.-— Mince the white part 
of the celery and mix well with an equal quan- 
tity of bread-crumbs ; to a quart of the mixture 
add the yolk of two eggs, a heaping saltspoon- 
ful of salt, and a pinch of cayenne ; moisten 
with a little milk if the moisture from the celery 
is not sufficient. Shape in cones, dip in egg 
and crumbs, and fry in a liberal quantits- of fat. 

Field Mushrooms on Toast.— In the autumn 
the field mushrooms may be had in profusion 
and at low prices. Care should be exercised in 



42 KOHL-RABI, A LA CKtUE. 

selecting them. Reject very large ones, especi- 
ally if the under gills be a dead black and have 
traces of decay, or are worm-eaten. The 
small, fresh-looking ones with pink ribs are the 
ones to eat and enjoy. Peel the tops carefully; 
melt an ounce of butter in the frying-pan and 
fry in it half a pound of raw minced steak ; 
add two saltspoonfuls of salt, a pinch of 
cayenne, and a gill of hot water ; fry until the 
juices are extracted from the meat ; tilt the pan 
and squeeze the meat with the back of the 
spoon until there is nothing left but dry meat, 
then remove it ; add the mushrooms to the 
liquid, and if there is not enough of it add 
more butter ; toss them about for a moment, 
and pour out on hot toast. 

Kohl-Babi, la Cr6me.— This excellent veg- 
etable is seldom seen on the tables of Amer- 
icans, as they know but little of its superb qual- 
ities. In taste it much resembles the cauli- 
flower. The name is German, and is derived 
from ko/i/f meaning cabbage, and rude, meaning 
rape. The stem just above the surface of the 
ground swells into a round, fleshy bulb, in form 
not unlike the turnip. T^el them as turnips, 
quarter them and then cut them in thin slices, 
boil in water slightly salted. Dissolve an ounce 
of butter, add to it a little flour, salt, nutmeg. 



MACARONI, AU GRATIN. 



43 



and white pepper to taste. Beat the yolk of 
one egg, add to it half a pint of milk, and 
whisk it into the butter ; when thick add the 
vegetable, and serve. The leaves when tender 
are boiled and served as spinach. 

Macaroniy au gratin.— Break the long stems 
in two and cover them with water slightly 
salted, simmer fifteen minutes, drain and put 
the macaroni in au gratin tins. Add a little 
milk, salt and pepper, and a walnut of butter to 
each ; then cover with grated Parmesan cheese 
and bake to a delicate brown. 

New OnioiiBy au gratin.— Select onions of 
uniform size, peel and cut a slice from the top 
of each. Remove part of the centre of each 
and chop it fine. Mince half a pound of ham; 
soak three ounces of bread-crumbs, squeeze out 
the water from them and add the yolks of two 
eggs. Mix all together and season with salt 
and pepper and very little mace. Stuff the 
onions with this ; cover the top of the onions 
with grated cheese and bake brown. 

Okra, Stuflted.— Select a dozen good-sized 
but tender okra pods, cut off the ix>inted ends, 
and remove the seeds. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs, season with salt and white pepper, add a 
tablespoonful of chopped boiled ham, and 
bread-crumbs enough to thicken the egg. Add 



44 OYSTER-PLANT, AU GRATIN. 

the seeds also. Fill the pods with this mix- 
ture, stand them upright in a pan ; add a little 
water or gravy ; cover the tops with a layer of 
bread-crumbs and add a layer of grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Divide two ounces of butter in 
little balls, place them on top and bake to a 
delicate brown. 

Oyster-Plant, au gratin.— Take six stalks 
of oyster-plant, scrape them and dip them in 
half vinegar and water as fast as scraped. Cut 
them in quarters lengthwise, then in inch strips; 
wash them and boil one hour in slightly salted 
water. Boil half a pint of milk, add a tea- 
spoonful of dissolved flour to it ; add the vege- 
table, and put in a small baking-tin ; season 
with salt and pepper ; strew over the dish a 
layer of bread-crumbs ; add a little butter and 
bake to a delicate brown. 

Peppers, Stuffed.— Take six green Spanish 
peppers, cut off the tops, remove the seeds, and 
make a force-meat of equal parts of minced 
chicken or veal and soaked bread-crumbs, well 
seasoned, and bound together with the yolks of 
two eggs ; fill the peppers with this ; add a 
little cracker-dust on top, and a small piece of 
butter to each ; bake twenty minutes. 

Potato Croquettes.— Boil six potatoes ; 
when done peel and mash them ; add two 



RICE CROQUETTES. 



45 



ounces of butter, a gill of milk, salt, pepper 
and the yolks of two raw eggs. Dredge a 
bread-board with flour, roll the potato into very 
small cork-like shapes ; cut these of equal 
length, dip them in egg and crumbs and fry to 
a delicate brown. 

Rice Croquettes.— Thoroughly wash half a 
pint of rice ; boil it in a pint of milk thirty 
minutes ; whip into the hot rice two ounces of 
butter, two ounces of sugar, salt, and the yolks 
of two eggs. If the batter is too stiff add a 
little more milk. When cold roll it into neat 
balls, corks or cones, dip them in beaten egg, 
roll in fine bread- or cracker -crumbs, and fry as 
you would doughnuts. 

Stufibd TomatoeB.— Select six medium-sized 
tomatoes. Cut a slice from the stem end cf 
each, and scoop out the soft pulp. Mince one 
small onion, and fry it slightly ; add a gill of 
hot water, the tomato pulp, and two ounces of 
cold veal or chicken chopped fine ; simmer and 
season with salt and pepper. Stir into the pan 
cracker-dust enough to absorb the moisture ; 
stuff the tomatoes with this mass, sprinkle dry 
crumbs over the top ; add a small piece of but- 
ter, and bake until slightly browned on top. 



46 



CODFISH-TONGUES. 



ENTRIES OF FISH. 

Ckxlfish - TongUBS. — Wash four codfish- 
tongues thoroughly in cold water ; put them on 
the range in hot water slightly salted, and boil 
thirty minutes ; drain ; arrange neatly on a 
folded napkin placed upon a hot dish ; garnish 
with parsley and slices of lemon, and send to 
table with a white sauce. Fried like oysters 
and served with sauce tartare they are very 
good. (See sauce tartare ^ page 52.) 

Curry of Eels, with Rice.—Cut into two- 
inch pieces one medium-sized eel or two small 
ones ; put them in a saucepan and cover with 
boiling water ; add a little salt, a piece of lemon 
peel and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; boil slow- 
ly one hour, and drain. Cut up a small onion, 
and fry it brown in a little butter ; add a pint 
of the water in which the fish was boiled and 
a teaspoonful of walnut catsup. Mix together 
a teaspoonful of flour with a gill of cold water, 
rub it smooth, and add a teaspoonful of dry 
curry powder. Mix and add it to the pan, 
strain and return to the pan ; then add the eels; 
simmer fifteen minutes, and serve surrounded 
by a border of boiled rice. 



EELS EN MATELOTTE, ETC. 4 

Eels en Matelotte, au gratin.— Cut two 

pounds of eels into three-inch pieces, and rub 
the inside with a little salt. Cut one medium- 
sized onion into small pieces, and fry them in 
a little melted butter ; when brown, add half 
a pint of broth or water, one bay-leaf, four 
cloves, six broken pepper-corns, and a gill of 
claret. Add the eels to this, cover, and simmer 
three-quarters of an hour. Pour the contents 
of the pan into a shallow baking-tin, cover them 
with cracker-crumbs, add a pat of butter to the 
crumbs, and bake to a light brown. 

Fillet of Blueflsh, au gratin.— Select a 
small bluefish, split it in two lengthwise, remove 
the bone, and cut the fish free from the skin ; 
cut the flesh in strips ; spread a layer of nicely 
seasoned stuffing on each long strip, and roll 
them. Cover the bottom of a tin with the 
stuffing, add the fillets of fish, and fill all the 
spaces between with stuffing. Strew over the 
top of the dish a layer of bread-crumbs, mois- 
tened with melted butter, and bake to a deli- 
cate brown. The stuffing may be made of a 
mixture of minced meat and grated bread nice- 
ly seasoned, or bread-crumbs and minced clams 
or oysters. 

Fillet of Pompano, Cream Sauce.— Cut 

the fish in two lengthwise, remove the bone and 



48 FILLET OF SALMON TROUT. 



cut the flesh free from the skin; then cut the fish 
into strips. Rub a little butter, pepper and salt 
over them, roll and tie them up, put them in a 
saucepan, add very little water and such spices 
as are liked. Cover the dish, and allow it to 
simmer an hour. Take the fish out of the 
liquid and strain the latter, thicken it with milk 
containing a little flour, pour it over the fish, 
squeeze a little lemon juice on top, and serve. 

Fillet of Salmon Trout.--Select a medium- 
sized fish ; split it in two lengthwise ; lay the 
pieces skin side down, and cut the fish away 
from the skin ; then cut it in pieces two inches 
wide crosswise. Lay these in a pan, add water 
or gravy to prevent burning ; season with salt, 
pepper, and an ounce of butter to the pound of 
dressed fish, and bake. When done, put on a 
hot dish. Make a sauce of the contents of the 
pan, add a little Rhine wine to it, and pour over 
the fish. 

Fillet of Sole, Sauoe Tartare.— The true 
English sole is seldom used in America, except 
on extra occasions, when it is imported from 
England. We use the common flounder as a 
substitute. Remove the head, fins, tail, and 
skin from a medium-sized flounder ; lay the 
fish flat on the table, and with a sharp knife 
make a deep cut through to the backbone the 



FRESH STURGEON STEAK MARINADE. 49 

whole length of the fish, cut the upper side 
lengthwise from the bone, now remove the bone 
from the lower part, and cut the fish into pieces 
crosswise, each piece to be about two inches in 
width ; season each piece, roll it up and tie it 
with strong thread, dredge them in flour and 
fry in plenty of hot fat (they may be dipped in 
egg batter and rolled in bread-crumbs if liked) ; 
remove the thread, arrange them neatly on a 
hot dish, garnish with parsley, and send to ta- 
ble with sauce tartare (which see). 

Fresh Sturgeon Steak Marinade.—Take 
one slice of sturgeon two inches thick ; let it 
stand in hot water five minutes ; drain ; put it 
in a bowl and add a gill of vinegar, half a gill 
of olive oil, half a teaspoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonful of black pepper, and the juice of half 
a lemon ; let it stand six hours, turning it oc- 
casionally ; drain and dry on a napkin ; dip it 
in egg ; roll in bread-crumbs, and fry, or rather 
boil, in very hot fat. Beat up the yolks of two 
raw eggs, add a teaspoonful of French mustard, 
and, by degrees, half of the marinade, to make 
a smooth sauce^ which serve with the fish. 

Frogs' Legs & la Poulette.— Wash three 
pairs of "saddles"; drain and scald them; 
simmer an hour in boiled milk. Put into a 
saucepan two ounces of butter ; when it begins 



50 frogs' legs a la secret. 

to melt whisk it, and add the juice of a lemon. 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs with two gills 
of cream containing a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently in- 
to the warm butter ; keep it quite warm until 
it thickens, but do not boil, or it will curdle. 
Drain the frogs from the milk, pour the sauce 
over them, strew a little chopped parsley on 
top, and serve. 

Frogs' Legs la Secret.— Wash one pound 
of frogs* legs in cold water slightly salted ; par- 
boil them in boiling water and finish cooking 
them in boiling milk. Beat two ounces of but- 
ter in a saucepan over the fire, add half a tea- 
spoonful of dry flour and a gill of the milk in 
which the frogs were boiled. Beat the yolks of 
two eggs with half a wineglassf ul of sherry, salt, 
and pepper. Move the saucepan to the back of 
the range, and when its contents are somewhat 
cooled whisk in the egg. Keep it warm, but 
do not let it boil, and add the frogs ; then turn 
out on a hot dish, and serve. 

Progs' Legs, Pried, Sauce Tartare.— Select 
three large " saddles" ; wash them and cover 
them with boiling water for five minutes ; drain 
and dry them in a napkin. Beat the yolks of 
two eggs, add a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of 
cayenne, three tablespoonfuls of oil, and a dash 



ROYANS A LA VATEL. 5 1 

of anchovy essence ; beat well and add a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice ; dip the frogs in this, 
roll them in grated bread-crumbs, shake off all 
surplus crumbs, dip them again in the egg, and 
again roll in the crumbs. Have ready a liberal 
quantity of hot fat, drop the frogs in it, and fry 
them a dark brown, and serve, neatly garnished 
with parsley and slices of lemon. Serve the 
sauce in a sauce-boat. (See sauce tartar e,) 

Boyans d* la Vatel.— Royans are of the sar- 
dine order, and are more of a lunch relish than 
an entree. They may be procured from the 
leading grocers. Open the can carefully with- 
out breaking the fish, turn the contents of the 
can on a dish, scrape off the skin, arrange them 
on slices of toast, add the bits of truffles and 
artichokes found in the tin, and serve with 
quarters of lemon. 

They may be cut into very fine pieces and 
spread on toast, with a little lemon juice 
squeezed over them. 

\A la Vatel refers to Vatel, the celebrated 
chef to the Prince de Cond^. Vatel, driven to 
despair by the non-arrival of a quantity of fish 
necessary for a fish dinner to be given to Louis 
XIV., committed suicide.] 

Salmon Croquettes.— Take a one-pound can 
of salmon, open it neatly, take out the fish and 



52 



SAUCE TARTARE. 



mince it fine ; add salt and pepper and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley or celery tops; 
moisten it with very little water, add a raw 
egg and a little walnut ketchup, mix thorough- 
ly, put it in a small saucepan, and place the 
saucepan in another containing hot water. 
When quite hot, turn it out upon a dish to be- 
come cold ; then roll it into cones, dip these 
in beaten egg seasoned with salt and pepper, 
roll them in bread-crumbs, drop them into 
boiling fat, and fry a delicate brown ; drain 
them a moment, arrange neatly on a hot dish, 
and serve with or without sauce. 

Sauce Tartare.— Take half a pint of mayon- 
naise, and add to it a tablespoonful of chopped 
salad herbs, mince a quarter of an onion with a 
few chopped capers and a teaspoonful of made 
mustard ; mix all together, and serve. 

Shad Boe & la Foulette.— Cover a pair of 
roes with water slightly salted ; add a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and a slice of lemon ; sim- 
mer thirty minutes and drain ; put into a sauce- 
pan an ounce of butter ; when it begins to melt 
whisk it and add the juice of half a lemon. 

Beat up the yolk of one egg with a gill of 
cream containing half a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently into 
the warm butter ; keep it quite warm until it 



SMELTS WITH TOMATOES, ETC. 53 

thickens, but do not boil, or it will curdle. 
Pour it over the shad roes, strew over the top a 
trifle of chopped parsley, and serve. 

Smelts with Tomatoes, au gratin.— 
Thoroughly clean six medium-sized smelts, dry 
them on a towel. Put into a quart baking- 
tin a layer of grated bread-crumbs, on top of 
which add a layer of sliced tomatoes (free from 
skins) ; cover with a light layer of crumbs and 
season with salt, pepper, and a pat of butter. 
Now add the fish whole, and strew over them 
a top layer of crumbs, add salt, pepper, and a 
liberal allowance of butter ; pour in on one side 
a small quantity of oyster broth to prevent 
burning on the bottom, and also to flavor the 
whole dish ; bake twenty minutes. 

Stewed Eels, German Style.— Select two 
good-sized, properly cleaned eels ; cut them into 
three-inch pieces ; cover with cold water, slight- 
ly salted, for one hour. Put into a saucepan two 
ounces of butter and a tablespoonf ul of flour, 
and stir it around until slightly colored ; add 
gradually a pint of cold water, a clove of 
minced garlic, one bay-leaf, a blade of mace, 
two sage-leaves, six cloves, and a wineglassful 
of Rhine wine. When warm, add the eels ; 
cover, and simmer slowly one hour. Remove 
the eels without breaking the pieces ; strain the 



54 



VOL-AU-VENT OF FROGS' LEGS. 



sauce, and if thin boil it down ; pour it over the 
eels, and serve either hot or cold. 

Vol-au-Vent of Progs* Legs.—Rinse two 
pounds of medium-sized legs in cold water 
slightly salted, then par-boil them ; drain, and 
simmer them in milk three-quarters of an 
hour ; when done, drain, and remove the 
bones. Whisk two ounces of butter over 
the range ; add to it slowly a teaspoonful of 
flour, salt and pepper, and a dash of nut- 
meg. Stir in a pint of the milk in which the 
frogs were boiled ; add the meat, and keep on 
the range until wanted. Fill the Vol-au-Vent 
shells just before sending to table. These 
may be made at home ; but the nearest bakery 
will furnish you them at a reasonable price, and 
this will save you much trouble. 



ENTRIES OF BEEF. 

Beef & la Mode.— Take three pounds of 
fresh beef, trim off the fat ; cut half a pound 
of bacon into long, slender strips, and lard the 
beef with it. Mix a few cloves, mace, allspice. 



BEEF, BRAIS£, ETC. 



55 



peppers, cayenne, tablespoonful of powdered 
thyme, and two cloves of garlic, with half a pint 
of malt vinegar. Put the meat into an earthen 
crock, with a thin slice of bacon under it, add 
the seasoning and a pint of soup-stock, cover 
the crock and simmer six hours. When pre- 
ferred, vegetables may be added, but it is more 
satisfactory to cook them separately. 

Beef, Braisd, la Macddoine.— Select a 
five-pound piece of rump of beef, cover it with 
hot water and simmer two hours. Take it 
out, put it in the braising- pan with a slice of ba- 
con, an old carrot sliced, an onion quartered, a 
teaspoonful of salt, six whole peppers, three 
cloves, and a pinch of thyme. Add half a pint 
of the water in which it was partly cooked (and 
save the remainder for soup). Cover, and sim- 
mer an hour, and set the joint in the open oven 
a few moments, while you rub the sauce 
through the colander, remove surplus fat and 
boil the sauce down, then pour it over the 
meat, and serve, surrounded with a liberal 
quantity of young vegetables cut into fancy 
shapes, harmoniously blended as to colors, 
and piled up in dainty tufts alternated with 
sprigs of parsley or slices of lemon, or both. 
If it is too much trouble to prepare your own 



56 



BEEF, BRAIS£, ETC. 



mac6doine you may procure it from any first' 
class grocer. 

Beef, Braisd, Himgarian Style. — Beef 
cooked with the addition of a liberal quantity 
of Paprika (which is a red but very mild and 
excellently flavored pepper) is called Hungarian 
style. This pepper may be purchased at the 
Spanish stores and at Hungarian restaurants. 
Select a five-pound piece of rump of beef, cover 
it with hot water, and simmer two hours. Take 
it out, put it in the braising-pan with a slice of 
bacon, a carrot sliced, an onion quartered, a 
teaspoonful of salt, three cloves, a pinch of 
thyme, and a heaping tablespoonful of Paprika. 
Add half a pint of the water in which it was 
partly cooked (and save the remainder for 
soup). Cover, and simmer an hour, and set the 
joint in the open oven a few moments while 
you rub the sauce through the colander ; re- 
move surplus fat, boil the sauce down, then 
pour it over the meat, and serve. 

Beef, Braisd, with Young Carrots.— Same 
asd /a Mac/doin^y except use carrots instead of 
mac^doine, and serve, surrounded with a lib- 
eral quantity of young spring carrots, which are 
very nice. The young carrots require but little 
cooking. 

Bee&teak Fie.— Select flank or rump steak 



FILET MIGNON, ETC. 



57 



for this dish. Cut the meat in two-inch pieces 
about an inch wide ; season them with salt, 
white pepper, and minced parsley ; dredge with 
flour. Wash, peel, and cut in long, thin pieces 
half the quantity of potatoes. Line a baking- 
dish with paste ; add one long, thin strip of ba- 
con, then the steak alternated with layers of 
the potato ; add gravy or broth enough to keep 
the contents moist ; cover with a top crust, 
brush a little egg over it, and bake until quite 
brown on top. 

Filet Mignon, Sauce Bordelalse. — Take 
two pounds of beef tenderloin, cut it into small 
slices crosswise, and broil them, season them 
with salt and pepper, arrange them neatly on a 
dish, pour over them sauce Bordelaise, and 
serve. " Filet Mignon " means a delicate, 
small, favorite piece of fillet or tenderloin of 
beef. (See sauce Bordelaise,) 

Pillet of Beef, Sauce Beamaise. — Select 
three pounds of the large end of a beef tender- 
loin, trim off the fat and tough skin covering 
the meat, and either lard it or cover with thin 
strips of salt pork ; add salt and pepper, and 
bake thirty minutes ; cut it into slices, and serve 
with sauce Bearnaise (which see). 

Hamburg Steak.— Take one pound of very 
finely chopped or scraped round or rump steak. 



58 ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF, ETC. 



If you do not care to scrape it free from sinews, 
ask the butcher to do it for you. Put in a fry- 
ing-pan an ounce of butter ; add a teaspoonf ul 
of minced onion, and fry it a delicate brown. 
Now shape the steak in a round form about an 
inch and a half thick, and fry it in the same 
pan with the onion ; when done add salt and 
a pinch of cayenne. Meat prepared in this 
form is always more digestible than solid steak, 
and the ways of serving it are quite numerous. 
Some like it raw, highly seasoned with finely- 
chopped raw onion and parsley, cayenne, salt, 
and the yolk of a raw egg. Others eat it very 
rare, and some insist on cooking it almost as 
dry as chips. In our opinion it is best cooked 
about " medium," and a poached egg placed 
on top of it is quite acceptable. 

Boast Sirloin of Beef, Yorkshire Pud- 
ding.— The sirloin (written also surloin) of beef 
is the outer or upper part of the loins, covering 
the kidneys, and separated from the tenderloin 
by a flat bone. It is known to American house- 
keepers as porterhouse (the popular steak of 
the old New York porter and ale houses, hence 
its name ). The cut usually palmed off on New 
York housekeepers as sirloin is a hip steak or 
roast, the proper name of which is a rump-cut, 



ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF, ETC. 59 

considered by New England people to be one 
of the best joints. 

Select the middle cut of the loin of a good- 
sized animal, and see to it that the outer fat is 
at least a quarter of an inch thick ; for if the 
top covering of fat be thin, and more like gris- 
tle than fat, the meat will be found very tough 
and unpalatable. Trim away most of the in- 
ner fat and a part of the flank ; and as the ten- 
derloin is more useful as steaks or an entree, it 
is best to cut it out ; also turn the flank under, 
and if skewers are used, insert them in the flank 
only. Salt and pepper the whole joint liberal- 
ly, and dash a little flour over the outer fat 
Put it in a pan large enough to hold the joint 
and a pudding, and when the joint is half done 
add the pudding. While cooking baste the 
meat, and if the pudding is too dry baste it 
also. At the end of an hour and a half an eight- 
pound joint, if a good thick one, will be cook- 
ed ; but, if a thin joint, a much shorter time is 
required. 

To make the Yorkshire pudding : Beat thor- 
oughly five eggs ; add to them a teaspoonful of 
salt, a pint of milk, and a teaspoonful of lem- 
on juice. Sift together two teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder and three half-pints of flour. 



6o 



SAUCE BEARNAISE. 



Add the egg mixture gradually, and make a stiff 
batter. Put it in the pan, not under, but be- 
side the beef. [A Yorkshire matron suggests 
the addition of lemon- juice to correct the too 
frequent ill-effects of so rich a dish.] 

To carve a sirloin of beef, the easiest manner 
possible is as follows : Remove the bone be- 
fore sending the joint to table ; place the thick- 
est end towards you, and with a firm stroke cut 
an even slice from one end of the joint to the 
other. Serve a portion of the pudding on each 
plate. When the joint is sent to table with the 
bone in it, cut thin slices down to the flat bone, 
and then with the sharp point of the knife cut 
them free from the bone. The dripping in the 
pan should be freed from most of the fat, and 
the remainder used for making the thick gravy 
so familiar to us all. , 

Sauce Bearnaise.— Reduce a gallon of strong 
soup to a quart by long boiling, and keep it 
warm. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, turn 
them into a buttered saucepan, whisk them, 
and gradually add a pint of the reduced soup 
(which is called glaze) ; add, while whisking, a 
tablespoonful of vinegar strongly flavored with 
garlic (or, if liked, a quantity of the juice from 
bruised garlic or shallots) and the juice of a 
lemon. After beating the eggs, stir them in 



SAUCE BORDELAISE. 



6i 



the pan continually with a wooden spoon, and 
do not let the sauce boil at any time. 

Sauoe Bordelaise.— Put a tablespoonful of 
chopped white onions into a hot saucepan with 
a little butter, white pepper and salt, and half 
a pint of wine ; reduce it, by boiling, to quarter 
of a pint, then add half a pint of dark, thick, 
beef gravy ; boil a few moments, add a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped capers ; mix gently to- 
gether, and serve. 

Tongue, with Spatzen, Boiled.— Trim off 
the ragged end of a smoked tongue ; cover it 
with cold water ; let this come to a boil, then 
pour off the water, and fill the pot up again with 
cold water. Let this come to a boil ; then allow 
it to simmer two hours. When done, remove 
the skin and useless root-end, and cut it in neat, 
thin slices. Place them on a hot dish as near 
the original form as possible ; put round it a 
high border of well made spatzen, which is pre- 
pared as follows : Mix together a pint of flour, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a scant pint of 
milk. Beat the yolks of two eggs ; add them 
to the flour and stir the mixture well ; put a part 
of it on a flat dinner plate, and flake it into a 
pan of boiling water with a knife, alternately 
dipped in the pan of hot water ; let the strips 



62 



TRIPE LYONNAISE. 



boil until they float on the surface ; then take 
them out carefully, and drain. Put into a fry- 
ing-pan an ounce of butter ; when hot, stir into 
it half a pint of grated bread-crumbs ; toss them 
about until crisp and brown, and pour them over 
the spatzen together with the butter not ab- 
sorbed by them. [Spatzen is a favorite Ger- 
man dish, and it is so good that I marvel much 
at not meeting with it at our tables A little 
practice, and our young house-keepers may be 
able to prepare it almost as well as her German 
cousin. ] 

Tripe Lyoniiaise.— Cut half a pound of cold 
boiled tripe into neat squares. Put two ounces 
of butter and a tablespoonful of chopped onion 
in a frying-pan and fry to a delicate brown ; 
add to the tripe a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley and a little strong vinegar, salt, and cayenne; 
stir the pan to prevent burning. Cover the bot- 
tom of the platter with tomato sauce, add the 
contents of the pan, and serve. 

Tripe with Clams, & la Potilette.— Cut half 
a pound of honeycomb tripe in inch square 
pieces ; wash thoroughly in water slightly salted; 
simmer three-quarters of an hour. Boil twenty 
small clams in half a pint of clam broth for 
twenty minutes ; strain both and mix the liquids. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs, add a gill of milk, 



TRIPE WITH OYSTERS. 



63 



a tablespoonful of dissolved flour, salt, and 
pepper ; when the liquid cools, add the other 
ingredients. Melt and whisk an ounce of but- 
ter ; while doing so add the sauce gradually. 
When quite hot and thick add the clams and 
tripe. 

Tripe with Oysters.—Tripe, when prepared 
by a simple process, is very nutritious and easily 
digested. Cut up half a pound of tripe, wash 
it well in water slightly salted and simmer three- 
quarters of an hour. Take it out of the broth, 
add a little butter rolled in flour, salt, and pep- 
per ; simmer, and add a little more flour : if not 
thick enough return the tripe, and add a dozen 
small oysters ; simmer fifteen minutes longer, 
and serve. 



ENTRIES OF CALF'S HEAD. 

Calfs Head.— Ask the butcher to chop the 
head in two, then remove the brains ; place 
them in cold water for an hour, drain, and 
boil them in salted water twenty minutes, and 
set them one side. Put the head in cold water, 



64 calf's head, a la poulette. 

wash it well, let it remain in water one or two 
hours to draw out the blood ; now cover it with 
hot water, season with pepper, salt and mace ; 
boil gently two hours and a half, and serve with 
cream sauce. 

Calf 8 Head, & la Poulette.— Prepare the 
head as in the foregoing recipe, and send to ta- 
ble with a sauce prepared as follows : Put into a 
saucepan two ounces of butter ; when it begins 
to melt, whisk it. 

Beat up the yolks of two eggs with two gills 
of cream containing a teaspoonful of flour 
rubbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently in- 
to the warm butter ; keep it quite warm until 
it thickens, but do not boil, or it will curdle. 
Add the juice of a lemon, pour the sauce over 
it, strew a little chopped parsley on top, and 
serve neatly garnished. 

CalTs Head, en Tortue.— When prepared 
according to the formulas laid down in the 
works of French chefs, this is one of the most 
elaborate dishes known. We will endeavor to 
give a recipe that is within the reach of most 
families. A principal object in view is to make 
it attractive to the eye by varied garnishments. 
Trim off all crust from a loaf of sandwich 
bread, cut it in two, make it as square as pos- 
sible, and fry one piece in boiling fat ; when 



calf's head, en tortxje. 65 

brOwn, drain. Boil the head and brains sepa- 
rately, and chop the brains very fine. Add to 
them a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt 
and white pepper, a heaping teaspoonful of 
bread-crumbs, and the yolk of an egg. Roll 
them into little cakes. Dip each in egg and 
crumbs, and fry just before they are wanted. 
After the head is boiled, remove all bone, skin 
the tongue, and replace it. Cream two ounces 
of butter ; add to it a heaping tablespoonful of 
dissolved flour, whisk it, and add a pint of the 
liquid in which the head was boiled. Season 
it with salt and cayenne. Add the pulp of two 
tomatoes and a glass of sherry ; simmer twenty 
minutes, and pour in a sauce boat. Cut the 
head and tongue in pieces about two inches 
square, put the pieces of fried bread on a dish, 
arrange the pieces of head round it. Arrange 
the little brain cakes on top and on the sides of 
the bread, alternately with hard-boiled eggs 
quartered. A few hot mushrooms are an im- 
provement, and truffles are also used. A few 
stoned or stuffed olives tucked in little open- 
ings are acceptable. The dish may now be 
served, but should you have three silver skewers, 
and arrange on each a red crayfish, or prawn, 
or the boiled claw of a crab, then a truffle or 
an olive, and stick these in the bread as top 



66 



calf's head, etc. 



ornaments. Should you have a bottle of pre- 
pared French cockscombs, these should be put 
on the skewers first. The garnishing is a mat- 
ter of fancy, and a little practice will make one 
proficient in it. 

CalTs Heady Sauce Vinaigrette.— Ask the 
butcher to chop the head in two, then remove 
the brains ; place them in cold water for an 
hour ; drain, and boil them in salted water twen- 
ty minutes, and set them one side. Put the 
head in cold water, wash it well, let it remain 
in water one or two hours to draw out the 
blood ; now cover it with hot water, season 
with pepper, salt, and mace ; boil gently two 
hours and a half, and serve with a sauce made 
as follows : Chop very fine two pickled or fresh 
button onions, a dozen capers, and half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Add to these half 
a saltspoonful of black pepper, half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, three, tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 
five tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; mix, and serve. 

CalTs Head, Sauce Tartare.— The calf's 
head left from the preceding day's dinner and 
the brains make an excellent breakfast dish. 
Cut the meat off the head in pieces about the 
size of oysters ; dip them in egg and batter, 
and fry in plenty of hot fat. The brains should 
be well washed, drained, and par-boiled, then 



calf's head, terrapin style. 67 

cut in slices and fried. Serve with sauce tar- 
tare, (See page 52.) 

Oalfs Heady Terrapin Style. — Cut up a 
pound of cold, boiled calf's head into small, 
neat squares, set them one side, and prepare a 
dressing as follows : Put half a pound of butter 
in a saucepan, and let it melt. Beat up the 
yolks of four eggs with a pint of rich cream, 
and season with salt, cayenne, and nutmeg ; 
whisk the butter, and, while doing so, add the 
cream and eggs gradually ; simmer, but do not 
let it boil. Take half a pint of sherry, and add 
to it a teaspoonful of browned flour and half 
a teaspoonful of India Soy ; whisk well, and 
add gradually to the sauce. Keep it hot until 
it thickens, and add the calf's head. Mix, and 
serve in a hot dish. Should the sauce boil it 
will curdle. The yolks of hard-boiled eggs 
worked to a paste, then made into little balls to 
represent terrapin eggs, are recommended if one 
cares to take the trouble to make them. 

Minoed Calf's Head.— Cut into strips the 
fleshy part of one cheek together with the 
tongue of the calf's head from the preceding 
day. Cut the strips into very small dice. Put 
into a saucepan half a pint of rich gravy, warm 
the minced meat in it, season with a pinch of 
cayenne, two saltspoonf uls of salt, and a gill of 



68 BREAST OP LAMB, WITH PEAS. 

sherry ; simmer fifteen minutes, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent burning ; break into the dish 
two raw eggs, stir until set, put the meat neat- 
ly on slices of toast, and serve. 



ENTRIES OF LAMB. 

Breast of Lamb, with Peas.— This part of 
the lamb is always cheaper than other portions, 
and not only has this to recommend it, but is 
readily adaptable to many delicate and palate- 
pleasing dishes, one of which is the following : 
Trim off the skin and a part of the fat from the 
breast of a spring lamb ; cut the meat into 
squares or triangular pieces ; dredge in flour ; 
put them into a stew-pan with a small quantity 
of butter and herb seasonings ; toss them about, 
and brown them nicely ; add a pint of soup- 
stock to each pound of meat ; simmer until ten- 
der, and skim off all surplus fat. Just before 
serving, add half a can of French peas, pour 
out on a hot dish, garnish with large croutons ^ 
and serve. The tops of asparagus, French 
beans, etc., may be used instead of peas. 



EPIGRAMME OP LAMB, ETC. 69 



Another good way for preparing breast of 
lamb is as follows ; Cut the meat into pieces as 
above described ; dip them in beaten egg, roll 
in cracker-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat ; drain 
off nicely all surplus fat, place them on a hot 
dish, pour tomato sauce over them, and serve. 
They are also very nice when broiled. 

Epigramme of Lamb, Mac6doine.— Trim 
the fat and skin off a breast of lamb, put it in 
a saucepan, add a strip of bacon, a sprig of pars- 
ley, a slice of lemon, four whole cloves, six pep- 
pers, and a pint of clear soup ; simmer an hour, 
drain, and save the broth for future use as a 
sauce. Remove the bones, and place the meat 
between two plates with a weight on top ; when 
cold, cut the meat in V-shape pieces, dip them 
in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in 
plenty of boiling fat. Have ready a mac^doine 
of vegetables (assorted vegetables cut in neat 
forms and boiled), put them in the centre of a 
dish, arrange the epigrammes around them, and 
serve. 

PrioaBsee of Lamb, with Peas.— The breast 
and flap or shoulder of lamb is a most excel- 
lent dish served in this form : Cut the meat in 
neat pieces ; toss them in a very little flour ; 
put them in a saucepan with just cold water 
enough to prevent burning ; when it begins to 



Jo LAMB CHOPS, WITH FRENCH PEAS. 

simmer, cover with hot water ; add salt, white 
pepper, and the slightest suspicion of mace. 
Simmer slowly one hour. To two pounds of 
meat add half a pint of canned peas. 

Lamb Chops, with French Peas.— Dain- 
ty lamb chops require but a moment to cook, 
and unless care be taken the cook is liable to 
dry them up. They should be turned repeated- 
ly to save all the juice, and when done arranged 
neatly around a mound of peas. Open a can 
of French peas (purchased from a reliable 
dealer, who will not palm off on you peas of 
second-class canners) ; drain off the water ; 
melt an ounce of butter in a pan, but do not 
let it become very hot ; then add the peas, salt 
and white pepper ; shake the pan to prevent 
burning, and when they are all hot, serve. The 
great mistake made with canned peas is that 
many cooks spoil them by allowing them to 
boil. As they are already cooked, they only 
require heating to make them palatable. 

Lamb Fritters, Tomato Sauce.— When cold 
roast lamb will not slice nicely, owing to its hav- 
ing been badly carved at the preceding meal, it 
may be served as fritters. Trim the meat free 
from the bones, and cut it very fine ; to one 
pound of this add half a scant teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper (red and black mixed) 



LAMB*S HEAD, STUFFED. 



71 



and the yolks of two eggs ; bind together, and 
shape the mixture into small, thin cakes, dip 
them in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, re- 
peat the process, and drop them in very hot fat. 
Serve with tomato sauce (which see). 

Lamb's Head, Stuffed.— The head of the 
house-fed lamb is a choice tid-bit. Wash the 
head (with the wool on) until quite clean, then 
scald it, and remove the wool and eyes. Cut 
out the tongue, remove the brain from the inner 
side, scald and clean the tongue and cut it fine; 
wash, scald, and mince the brains ; put them 
in a dish with half a pint of bread-crumbs, salt 
and pepper to taste ; moisten with milk, add a 
yolk of egg. Stuff the head with this, rub over 
it a liberal quantity of butter rolled in flour, and 
bake a rich brown. 

Lamb's Tongue on Toast.— A number of 
excellent dishes can be prepared from the dain- 
ty tongue of the lamb, whether it be pickled 
or fresh. If pickled, blanch it in hot water a 
moment to draw out its acidity, then plunge 
into cold water, drain, and cut into thin slices, 
toss them about in a little butter a moment, 
cover with gravy nicely seasoned and slightly 
thickened, and serve on toast. The fresh 
tongue should be first boiled and then cooked 
in the gravy whole, if preferred ; but they are 



72 



TOMATO SAUCE. 



more evenly permeated with the gravy if quar- 
tered or sliced. 

Tomato Sauce.— Open a can of tomatoes that 
contains but little liquid ; simmer them gently 
three-quarters of an hour ; season with salt, 
cayenne, a clove of garlic bruised, and very 
little mace. Press them through a fine sieve ; 
put the pulp in a clean, hot stew-pan with a 
little butter rolled in flour ; stir to prevent burn- 
ing, and, when quite thick, serve. A most ex- 
cellent tomato sauce is made of a brilliant red 
tomato catsup. Take half a pint of it, heat it 
gently, add a gill of rich soup-stock and a tea- 
spoonful of flour dissolved in a little cold water; 
simmer until it thickens, and serve. Ordinary 
catsups do not have the proper color, and are 
likely to sour when heated. 



ENTREES OF MUTTON. 

Cold Mutton, with Fur6e of Tomatoes.-* 

Reduce two quarts of fresh tomatoes to a pulp 
(or pur^e) ; put half of it in a small buttered 
pan, slice cold mutton and add it to the dish ; 



MINCED MUTTON, ETC. 



73 



cover with the remaining puree ; strew ovei 
the top salt and pepper and a layer of bread- 
crumbs ; put in the oven long enough to lightly 
brown the top. 

Minced Mutton, with Foaohed Egg.— 
The cold mutton left from a dinner may be 
converted into a very appetizing dish as follows: 
Cut the meat into thin slices, and cut these very 
fine. Melt an ounce of butter in a frying-pan. 
Cut up a slice of onion, and fry it in the butter; 
then remove it ; add the meat, a little salt and 
pepper, and soup or water to moisten it ; when 
thoroughly warmed through, put spoonfuls of 
it neatly on toast ; on top of the meat place a 
poached egg. 

Mutton Cutlets & la Maintenon.— [Of the 
various ways suggested to prepare cutlets after 
the direction of Madame Maintenon, the fol- 
lowing is the best mode for the household.] 
Fry one small onion in a little butter until a del- 
icate brown, then add half a pint of hot water, 
salt, a sprig of thyme and parsley, a dozen allspice 
broken, and three cloves ; put in two cutlets 
or chops, and simmer half an hour ; drain, 
and place them between dishes under pressure. 
When cold, trim them neatly. Boil the sauce 
down one-half, remove the fat, and add two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of minced mushrooms. 



74 



PLAIN MUTTON CURRY. 



and a clove of garlic minced very fine ; add just 
flour enough to take up the moisture, and keep 
the pan on the range until the mince is firm, 
then spread it on both sides of the chops or cut- 
lets. Squeeze a little lemon juice over them, 
and lay them on buttered plain writing paper ; 
wrap each chop in the paper as neatly as possi- 
ble, and put them in the oven ten minutes. 

[Cutlets a la Maintenon were, it is said, first 
served to Louis XIV. by direction of Madame 
Maintenon ; to whom he was married privately 
about the year 1685. Madame de Maintenon 
was the daughter of the scapegrace d'Aubigne, 
and was bom in the prison of Niort, Nov. 27th, 
1635. Forced by poverty, she married the de- 
formed and sickly Scarron and nursed him until 
his death. She afterwards met Louis XIV. , and, 
at the age of fifty, married him.] 

Plain Mutton Curry.— Cut up half a pound 
of boiled mutton in neat symmetrical pieces. 
Chop up quarter of an onion, and fry it with 
three tablespoonfuls of oil or butter, add the 
meat, toss it about a few minutes, strew over it 
half a teaspoonful of curry and add beef broth, 
gravy or water enough to make a thick sauce ; 
simmer gently a few minutes, and serve. This 
is about as simple a mode of preparing the dish 
as can be proposed. It may be improved upon 



PLAIN MUTTON CURRY. 



75 



by frying a little apple with the onion, in 
adding more water, and thickening it with 
browned flour. As many of the recipes re- 
commend rice, as a part of their composition, 
it is presented for the convenience of the 
readers. The cardinal point to be gained is to 
have each grain of rice, distinct and unbruised, 
but at the same time tender : to accomplish 
this, a small quantity of rice must be boiled in 
a large pot or pan, which should be filled with 
cold water Wash half a pound of rice in sev- 
eral waters. This may be done by placing a 
colander in a large tin and putting the rice in the 
colander ; then add cold water, and lift out the 
colander several times to deposit all grit into 
the outer tin. Reject all husks and imperfect 
grains ; flow it in a large pot or saucepan as 
above mentioned ; add a very liberal quantity 
of cold water and a little salt, and boil rapidly 
from twenty to thirty minutes (depending upon 
the age and variety of rice). Test the grains 
occasionally and when a slight pressure be- 
tween the thumb and forefinger will crush 
them, they are done. If allowed to boil until 
the grains burst, or if boiled in a small quan- 
tity of water, the e;rains will stick together, 
which is objectionable. When done, drain 
off all waiter, and place the rice near the range 



76 BROILED PORK TENDERLOIN. 

and covered with meat extract, called glaze,*' 
when it will reject all moisture, but will not 
become hard and dry. 



ENTRIES OF PORK. 

Broiled Fork Tenderloin.— Select two fresh 
pork tenderloins, remove the membranous skin 
covering them ; put them in a dish, and strew 
over them a tablespoonf ul each of minced onion 
and pickled cucumber, a teaspoonful of salt, a 
saltspoonful of black pepper, six whole cloves, 
a dozen allspice, and a leaf of thyme ; cover with 
half water and vinegar, and let stand over night. 
The next day, drain, brush over them a little 
sweet olive oil, dredge them in cracker-crumbs, 
and broil thoroughly over a charcoal fire. Put 
in the centre of a dish a mound of hot apple 
sauce, or, if preferred, a pyramid of fried toma- 
toes ; add the tenderloin, and serve. They 
may be cut into short pieces and broiled, but 
many prefer to see them carved at table. There 
are innumerable ways of preparing the pork 
tenderloin, and the ingenuity of the cook should 



TENDERLOIN OF PORK, ETC. 



77 



be brought into play to see in how many various 
styles they can be made acceptable. 

Tenderloin of Pork with Fried Applee.— 
Cut the thin membranous skin from the tender- 
loin, and put the latter in a marinade of claret 
seasoned with whole spice and a few slices of 
oranges. Let it stand in this four hours ; drain 
and dry on a cloth, and split in two lengthwise; 
rub it with butter, and broil until well done. 
Put in the center of a dish a mound of fried 
apples ; arrange the meat around it, and serve. 
The marinade may be boiled down, thickened 
and served as a sauce, if a sauce is desired. 



ENTRIES OF VEAL. 

Curry of VeaL— Cut up one pound of raw 
Vial into inch pieces. Mix a teaspoonful of 
curry, half a teaspoonful of rice flour, and a 
saltspoonful of salt together; dip the meat in 
meltifi butter or oil, then roll each piece in 
the powder, and fry it in butter until a delicate 
brown. Onion may be added or omitted. 
Mince half a sour apple and fry it with the 



78 



EPIGRAMMES OF VEAL. 



meat; add half a pint of soup-stock; simmer 
half an hour; squeeze over all the juice of half 
a lemon, mix, and serve. 

Epigrammes of Veal.— Take that part of the 
forequarter of veal which is chopped from the 
ribs in the preparation of rib chops Trim off 
the surplus fat. Put the whole piece in a 
saucepan, and add a sliced onion, a sprig or 
two of celery tops, salt, and a liberal allowance 
of whole peppers; cover with hot water or soup- 
stock, and simmer until the bones can be 
easily removed, when it will be properly 
cooked. Place it between two platters, on 
top of which put a heavy weight, and let it 
become cold. Strain the sauce to free it from 
fat, and hold it in reserve. Now cut the veal 
into neat pieces of equal size; dip them in 
beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and strew over 
them a little salt and pepper; dip again in egg, 
and again roll in crumbs ; have on the range a 
liberal quantity of fat; when it is smoking hot, 
add the meat, and fry to a delicate brown. 
Heat the sauce, and add to it just sherry 
enough to give it flavor, thicken it with a little 
brown flour, taste for seasoning, and send to 
table in a boat. 

Fricandeau of Veal. — This (in kitchen 
French) is veal neatly larded and browned in a 



FRICASSEE OF VEAL, ETC. 



79 



saucepan, or baked. Select a lean, thick piece 
of meat cut from the thick part of the leg. 
Insert ribbons of larding pork over the top 
surface. Put into a shallow saucepan three 
slices of bacon, six whole black pepper-corns, 
three cloves, one minced onion, a tablespoonful 
of chopped green herbs, one carrot sliced, salt, 
and clear soup or water enough to prevent 
burning. Add the meat, and cover. Baste 
occasionally, simmer until tender (allow thirty 
minutes to the pound), remove the meat, strain 
the sauce, skim off all fat ; now simmer the 
sauce until thick and brown, and serve both, 
or pour a little of the sauce over the meat, and 
set it in the oven a moment to brown the sur- 
face. 

Fricassee of Veal with Oyster Plant.— 

Trim off all surplus fat and bone from the 
breast of veal, and cut the meat into neatly 
shaped pieces ; dredge these with flour, and 
put them in a saucepan with batter enough to 
prevent burning. Cover, and let it steam in its 
own vapors thirty minutes ; then add a pint of 
soup-stock or water, and let it cook slowly. 
Scrape and cut into narrow strips as much 
oyster plant as you have meat in bulk ; add to 
it the meat, with salt, a few whole, white pep- 
pers, a dash of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of 



So RAGOUT OF VBAL, ETC. 

grated lemon-peel. Add a little more stock if 
a liberal quantity of sauce is desired. Cover 
the dish, and simmer until tender, allowing 
forty minutes for the vegetables to cook, care 
being exercised that they are not cooked too 
much. Remove the pan to the back of the 
range ; take out a gill of the liquid, and add to 
it the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pour this 
over the contents of the saucepan ; let it stand 
a few minutes longer, and serve. Garnish the 
dish with slices of lemon, triangular croutons^ 
and sprigs of parsley. 

Bagout of Veal, Jardiniere.—A ragout is 
a culinary relish, originally intended to restore 
to a jaded palate a sense of due appreciation of 
food. The meat may be cut in pieces or served 
whole. A piece of the breast of veal is excel- 
lent for this purpose. Roll the meat, and tie it, 
put it in a stew-pan, and add just enough stock 
or broth to cover it. When it begins to boil, add 
such vegetables as are required ; season with a 
part of a blade of mace, a sprig or two of dried 
herbs, the rind of a lemon, salt, and a small 
capsicum pod. Simmer two and a half hours ; 
remove the meat, strain the liquid, and thicken 
it with a little brown flour; add a glass of 
sherry ; pour the gravy over the meat, surround 



VEAL CROQUETTES, ETC. 8 1 



it with a border of vegetables cut in neat, 
appetizing fo;:ms. 

The commonplace ragout is more like a stew, 
and is usually served with irregular chunks of 
vegetables, without any thought of pleasing the 
eye or the palate. 

Veal Croquettes with String-Beans.— Chop 
up two pounds of cold roast veal with two 
boiled sweet-breads; moisten them with a little 
clear soup, and bind together with yolks of 
two eggs; season with a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, salt, and cayenne; roll the mass into 
cones, dip them in beaten egg, roll in 
crumbs, dip again in egg, and again roll in 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Arrange neatly on 
a dish with small ends upright, around them 
put a border of string-beans boiled and nicely 
seasoned, and serve. 

Veal Cutlet, a la Provencale.— Put into a 
frying-pan a tablespoonful of the best olive oil, 
add a clove of garlic, a teaspoonful of chopped 
shallot, and six raw mushrooms minced; toss 
them about a moment, and add part of a bay- 
leaf, a sprig of dry thyme, fifteen pepper-corns 
slightly bruised, a small bit of mace, half a 
pint of soup-stock or gravy, and a gill of sherry. 
Simmer half an hour, remove the garlic, add a 
gill more of stock, and strain the sauce through 



82 VEAL CUTLET BROILED, ETC. 



a sieve. Return to the range, and add half a pint 
of solid tomato pulp ; heat through, and just 
when pouring over the cutlets add a little 
lemon- juice and salt. The sauce being made, 
the cutlets may be broiled, fried plain, or sau- 
teed. 

Veal Cutlet Broiled, with Sorrel.— Select a 
cutlet from the thick part of the leg ; cut it in 
two-inch square pieces ; beat them a moment ; 
brush over them a little sweet olive oil, and broil 
over a charcoal fire if possible, as the gas from 
hard coal toughens the meat. When done, dip 
the pieces in a mixture of melted butter, lemon- 
juice, salt, and pepper. Put in the centre of a 
dish a mound of sorrel purde ; arrange the meat 
around it, and serve. The sorrel is prepared as 
follows ; — Wash two quarts of freshly gathered 
garden sorrel, remove the midribs or stems ; add 
just water enough to prevent burning (say half 
a pint), cover, and boil half an hour ; drain, and 
squeeze out all moisture. Fry one-quarter of 
an onion until brown, dust over it half a tea- 
spoonful of flour ; add half a gill of gravy and 
a square of sugar ; add the sorrel ; season with 
salt and pepper ; warm it through, and stir it 
continually. Let this part of the process con- 
tinue ten minutes, and then rub the sorrel 
through a fine sieve. 



VEAL CUTLET, GERMAN STYLE. 83 

Veal Cutlet, German Style.— German gen> 
tlewomen, as a class, are excellent cooks, and 
are more successful with veal than even our 
celebrated chefs. Their mode of preparing 
cutlets is as follows ; — Select the cutlets from 
the leg, divide each slice in pieces about three 
inches square, and beat them until the meat 
is almost ready to fall apart. Beat the yolks 
of eggs thoroughly, and season them with salt 
and pepper ; dip the pieces of meat in this, then 
roll them in finely-grated crumbs of home-made 
bread ; drop them in smoking hot fat, and fry 
to a dark brown color. Rub a hot side-dish 
with a clove of garlic, put the cutlets on it, and 
serve, plain or with sorrel, spinach, or tomato 
sauce. 

Veal Cutlet, Sautd, with Pur6e of Carrots. 

— Select a cutlet from the thick part of the leg, 
beat it with a bat, and brown it in a little hot 
butter. Boil a dozen, two-inch young carrots 
for half an hour in water slightly salted; mash 
them fine, rub them through a seive, and sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and two ounces of but- 
ter. Cover the bottom of a hot dish with the 
carrot-puree; place the cutlets on top, and serve. 



COOKERY FOR INVALIDS 



I 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

INTRODUCTORY, .... 7 

BROTHS. 

Beef Broth, 7 

Beef Juice, 10 

Beef Tea for Convalescents, . .10 
Liebig's Extract of Beef, . . 11 

Mutton Broth, 11 

Veal Broth, 12 

Chicken Broth, 12 

Scallop Broth, . . . .13 

GRUELS. 

Oatmeal Gruel, . . . .14 
Cerealine Gruel, .... 15 

Rice Gruel, 15 

Arrow-Root Gruel, • ^5 

Barley Gruel, 15 

Barley Water, .... 15 
Rice Water, 16 



4 



CONTENTS. 



PAGS 



TOAST. 

Dry Toast, 17 

Dip Toast, 17 

Milk Toast, 18 

Anchovy Toast, . . . .18 

Clam Toast, 18 

Marrow-bone Toast, . . .18 

Oyster Toast, 19 

Salmon Toast, . . . 19 
Tongue Toast, 19 

DIET DRINKS. 

FRAPpi: Champagne, . . . .20 
Wine Whey, . . . . .21 

Eggnog, 21 

Sherry and Egg, . . .21 

FRUIT DRINKS. 

Currant-Jelly Water, . . .22 
Currant Water, . . . . .22 
Apple Water, 22 

MILK. 

Skimmed Milk, 23 

Buttermilk, 23 

Milk, 24 



CONTENTS. 



5 



PAGE 

FRUITS AS FOOD AND MEDICINE. 

EATING BEFORE SLEEPING. 

Raw Oysters, 28 

Oyster Broth, . . . .28 

Pigs* Feet, 29 

Stewed Tripe with Oysters, 29 
Boiled Sweetbreads, . . .29 
Poached Eggs, .... 29 
Boiled Calf's Head, . . . .29 
Cold Roast Beef, .... 29 
Hamburg Steak, . . . .30 

Raw Meat, 30 

Venison Steak, 30 

MISCELLANEOUS. 



Calf's-foot Jelly, . . . .31 
The Hot- Water Cure, . . .31 



INTRODUCTORY. 



This little handbook is offered to house- 
keepers, in order that they may readily under- 
stand the popular dietetic formulas so universal- 
ly recommended by physicians, many of whom 
neglect the details of preparing the nutriment 
they prescribe, owing probably to the fact that 
all physicians are not cooks, as many of them 
were in olden, and all of them should be in 
modem, times. 

An exhaustive work on the subject of dietetics 
would naturally embrace many things, which, 
while excellent in certain diseases, would lead to 
distressing results in others. Care should there- 
fore be exercised not to administer other than 
the most simple diet until the nature of a disease 
is known, and even then the habits of the inva- 
lid should be taken into consideration. 

A nurse must always keep in view the fact 
that the great desideratum is to administer the 
most nutritious food in such form that the pa- 
tient can most easily assimilate it. 



8 



INTRODUCTORY. 



One word in regard to patent medicines. 
The sick-room is not the place for experiments, 
and we trust the time is not far distant when 
all so-called remedies and alleged health foods 
and drinks shall not be permitted to be sold or 
offered for sale, until they receive the indorse- 
ment of responsible boards of health. 

The lives that are sacrificed yearly by the ad- 
ministration of soothing (?) syrups and other 
pernicious nostrums are something terrible to 
contemplate, and the most stringent laws should 
be in force regulating their sale ; in no case 
should they be sold without a physician's pre- 
scription. 

Nurses have been known to purchase these 
poisonous compounds, and clandestinely ad- 
minister them to children in their charge, 
thereby dwarfing their intellects, and, in some 
instances, actually destroying the lives of the 
children. 



BROTHS. 



Beef Broth.— A well-made beef broth con- 
tains more nutriment than the old-fashioned 
beef tea, and is therefore the best of the many 
nourishing formulas known to the sick-room. 

In appearance, also, the broth is far superior 
to the tea, which is a very important factor in 
the diet for the sick. 

The choicest piece of meat for broth is a neck 
piece. Chop bone and meat quite small, and 
see to it that there is about one third bone to 
two thirds meat. Put into a gallon crock or jar 
one pound of the meat, and add a quart of cold 
water ; cover the jar with a plate, and place 
it in a deep saucepan of water. Simmer for 
four hours, strain into a smaller saucepan, and 
boil until reduced nearly one half ; remove 
every particle of fat or scum. Now comes the 
all-important question of seasoning, wherein we 
are necessarily obliged to consult the fastidious 
tastes of the invalid. Celery-salt or a stalk of 
celery allowed to simmer in the broth is accept- 
able, and the best mode of adding pepper (when 



lO 



BEEF JUICE. 



it is allowed) is to let a red-pepper pod remain 
in the broth for a moment or two. Ground 
pepper is objectionable lor various reasons. 
Dyspeptic patients are very apt to crave season- 
ings that cannot be taken with impunity. To 
serve beef broth, care must be exercised that it 
is not too hot ; half a cupful at a time is all that 
should be served. 

Beef Juice.—Have the dealer cut a thin slice 
of rump steak, remove the fat, and singe the 
outside slightly, then scrape it into shreds with a 
knife. Warm the beef press by pouring hot 
water over it, dry it, and with it press out the 
juice into glass or cup. Place the cup in warm 
water, and allow the juice to become quite \varm, 
and add a little salt A warmed lemon-squeezer 
may be used instead of the press. 

Rump steak is recommended because it con- 
tains more flavor than other cuts. 

Beef Tea for Convalesoents.— As the old- 
fashioned beef tea is sometimes recommended, 
we give the following recipe for its preparation : 
Shred half a pound of lean steak, let it stand in 
a pint of cold water for three quarters of an 
hour, then put both into a quart champagne 
bottle. Cut a long slit in the cork before plac- 
ing it in the bottle. Set the bottle in a sauce- 
pan of warm water, simmer one hour and a half. 



L1EBIG*S EXTRACT OF BEEF. II 

and strain through a napkin into a goblet. Now 
add a teaspoonful of finely shredded raw, lean 
beef, let stand a few moments, add a little salt 
and serve. 

Liebig's Extract of Beef.— This and other 
extracts are often recommended by physicians. 

A singular fact in connection with this extract 
is that the extract made in Texas by this firm 
is, in the opinion of some of our leading physi- 
cians, worthless as nutriment, while the extract 
made in South America, by the same company, 
is highly recommended. 

The author, being somewhat surprised that 
there should be a difference, made inquiries and 
learned that to the flesh of every two vacd (fat 
cow) was added a third of the flesh of a segua^ 
or mare, in making the extract These animals 
feed on esportillo, which is a thin, reed -like 
grass, said to be very fattening. The extract 
made in the United States is prepared from beef 
only. 

Is there more nutriment in the flesh of the 
horse than in that of the cow ? 

Mutton Broth. —Although mutton possesses 
a lower degree of nutritive value than beef, it is 
nevertheless one of the most important of ani- 
mal foods, being easily digested. 

Like beef, the neck part of mutton is most 



12 



VEAL BROTH. 



appropriate for the making of broth. Trim oif 
the surplus fat from the piece of meat, and to a 
pound of the lean (with bone added) add a 
quart of cold water ; simmer gently for two hours, 
strain, and let it become cold. When wanted 
remove every particle of fat. Put a small quan- 
tity of it in a saucepan, and allow it to become 
quite hot ; salt slightly, and allow a red-pepper 
pod to remain in it for a moment Have ready 
a small quantity of boiled rice, add it to the 
broth, and let stand a few moments before serv- 
ing. A very small piece of onion is sometimes 
added to the meat when first cooked to destroy 
the peculiar mutton flavor which is so objection- 
able to many patients. 

Veal Broth.— Veal, although less nutritive 
than either beef or mutton, and less digestive, is 
sometimes recommended, owing to its having a 
laxative action. The broth is prepared in a 
similar way to mutton broth. 

Chicken Broth.—** The domestic chicken,'* 
says Barthalow, * * is a most important article of 
food for sick and convalescents. The taste is 
agreeable, the tissues soft and easy of mastica- 
tion and digestipn. Spring chickens are more 
tender and delicate than the fully developed 
fowls of four to six months old. Next to the 
chicken in point of digestibility is the domestic 



SCALLOP BROTH. 



13 



turkey, and after this the domestic goose and 
duck. ' ' Cut up half a chicken into neat pieces ; 
adtl a quart of cold water and a small piece of 
celery ; cover and boil slowly for two hours. 
Then remove all fat carefully, strain, add salt, 
and serve. If lice is used, boil it with the 
chicken, and add it half an hour before the 
chicken is cooked. 

Scallop Broth.— The peculiar flavor of scal- 
lops is quite atrractive to the convalescent, and 
a broth made from them is nourishing ; but care 
should be exercised in selecting the shell fish. 
To improve their appearance, shippers add 
quantities of salaeratus to the scallops, which has 
the effect of bleaching them and increasing their 
size ; this custom may please the dealers, but not 
consumers. Select medium -sized scallops of a 
natural creamy color, wash them, and cut them 
into small pieces. To a half a pint of these add 
half a pint of warm water and half a pint of 
milk, a ** pea*' of butter, and a pinch of salt ; 
simmer for twenty minutes ; strain and serve. 

A pint of milk and no water may be used if 
the patient desires it. 



14 



OATMEAL GRUEL. 



GRUELS. 

Oatmeal Gruel. — Oatmeal, in any form, 
should not be given to patients who are suffering 
from diarrhoeal diseases or of irritable mucous 
membrane. While it is rich in nutriment, it is 
not always a good food, because it is irritating. 

Dr. Mott says that while many are under the 
impression that oatmeal is a tiue laxative, it is 
not properly so. Sift two ounces of oatmeal. 
Boil a quart and a pint of water, add to it a salt- 
spoonful of salt ; now add gradually the oat- 
meal, stirring constantly while adding the meal. 
Boil for one hour, remove to the back of the 
range until water enough has evaporated to 
make it of the proper consistency ; part milk 
may be used instead of all water. 

This recipe calls for the old process" mill- 
ing, which requires much longer cooking than 
the new preparations now on the market, many 
of which are advertised as being partly cooked, 
requiring but a few moments' more cooking to 
convert them into the most excellent food. 

Housekeepers, when preparing oatmeal for 
delicate stomachs, should ignore the ten, or even 
twenty-minute, propositions, and cook these 
preparations at least one hour. 



CEREALINE GRUEL. 



Cerealine Gruel.— Proceed as for oatmeal 
gruel, and add half a pint of cerealine to a quart 
of boiling water, slightly salted. Boil for half 
an hour, and serve with a little sugar. All milk 
may be used, if desired. 

Bice Gruel.— Mix together one tablespoonful 
of rice* floor, a saltspoonful of salt, and a small 
cup of cold water. Add the contents of the 
cup to a pint of boiling water, and boil for 
twenty minutes. Sugar should be served sep- 
arately, and, when too thick, add milk until of 
the proper consistency. 

Arrow-Root Gruel.— Take one tablespoon- 
ful of arrow- root, a pinch of salt, and half a gill 
of cold water, stir into half a pint of boiling 
water, and boil for fifteen minutes. 

Barley Gruel.— Take two tablespoonfuls of 
pearl barley washed in warm water. To a 
quart and half a pint of cold water add a heap- 
ing saltspoonful of salt and the washed barley. 
Boil for three quarters of an hour ; strain ; add a 
cake of cut sugar to each gobletful, and twist 
over the glass a piece of lemon -peel, the oil of 
which gives a pleasant flavor. 

Barley Water.— Wash one ounce of pearl 
barley in cold water. Drain off the water, and 
add to a quart and a pint of boiling water the 
barley, a piece of lemon -peel, and sugar enough 



I6 



RICE WATER. 



to be just perceptible to the taste ; simmer on 
back ot range until reduced one half, and serve 
unstrained. Other harmless flavoring ingredi- 
ents may be used instead of the lemon. 

Bice Water.— To a quart and a pint of cold 
water add two ounces of well-washed rice ; salt 
slightly, and add two cakes of sugar. Boil in 
the double saucepan until the rice has dissolved. 
Flavor with lemon-peel or stick cinnamon. 

A palatable jelly is made by straining the 
liquid, and flavoring it with lemon, wine, or 
brandy, then j)oured into moulds and placed on 
ice. 

Alcohol, in any form, should not be allowed 
patients except under medical advice. 



TOAST. 



17 



TOAST. 

Toa43t is very palatable and digestible when 
properly prepared. Many seem to think that 
they have made toast when they brown the out- 
side of a slice o( bread. Have they ? 

The object in making toast is to evaporate all 
moisture from the bread, and holding a slice 
over the fire to singe does not accomplish this ; 
it only warms the moisture, making the inside 
of the bread doughy and decidedly indigestible. 
The true way of preparing it is to cut the bread 
into slices a quarter of an inch thick, trim off 
all crust, put the slices in a pan or plate, place 
them in the oven — which must not be too hot — 
take them out when a delicate brown, and butter 
at once. 

For my own use I dry all home-made bread 
in this manner. 

Dry Toast should be served within the folds 
of a napkin if you wish to keep it hot ; toast- 
racks allow the heat to escape, and they are not 
recommended. 

Dip Toast.— Prepare the toast as above 
directed ; dip the edges into hot water quickly, 
and butter at once. This is also called water 
toast. 



I 



1 8 MILK TOAST. 

Milk Toast.— Wet the pan to be used with 
cold water, which prevents burning. Melt an 
ounce of floured butter ; whisk into it a pint of 
hot milk ; add a little salt ; simmer. Prepare 
four slices of toast ; put them in a deep dish 
one at a time ; pour a little of the milk over 
each, and over the last one pour the remainder 
of the milk. 

Anchovy Toast.—The best way to prepare 
this appetizing dish is as follows : Toast the 
bread and trim it neatly, and place it near the 
range to keep warm ; next prepare a ** dip," as 
for ordinary cream toast ; spread a thin layer of 
anchovy paste on each slice of bread ; place in 
a hot, deep dish ; pour the prepared cream over 
them, and serve. 

Clam Toast.— Chop up two dozen small 
clams into fine pieces ; simmer for thirty min- 
utes in hot water enough to cover them. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs ; add a little cayenne 
and a gill of warmed milk ; dissolve half a tea- 
spoonful of flour in a little cold milk ; simmer 
all together ; pour over buttered toast, and 
serve. 

Marrow-bone Toast.— Procure two beef 
shin-bones about six to eight inches long ; cover 
them with dough, and wrap them in muslin ; 
pour hot water enough to cover them, and boil 



! 



OYSTER TOAST. 



19 



for an hour and a half. Remove cloth and 
dough ; shake or draw out the marrow with a 
long-handled fork upon slices of hot toast 
Add salt, cayenne, and, if convenient, a little 
chopped celery, and serve. 

Oyster Toast.— Select fifteen plump oys- 
ters ; chop them fine, and add salt, pepper, and 
a suspicion of nutmeg. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with a gill of cream ; whisk this into 
the simmering oysters. When set, pour the 
whole over slices of buttered toast. 

Salmon Toast.— It very often occurs that a 
can of salmon is not all used at a meal, and yet 
there is not quite enough for another meal with- 
out other dishes or ingredients added to it. 
Should this occur, mince the salmon, heat, and 
season it and serve it on toast. A poached 
egg added to it is quite acceptable. 

Tongue Toast.— A very nice dish is pre- 
pared from cold boiled or potted tongue. Slice 
the tongue, and cut each slice into small, fine 
pieces ; heat it in a pan with a little butter. To 
prevent burning, moisten with warm water or, 
clear soup ; add salt and pepper ; stir into it 
two beaten eggs. When set, arrange neatly on 
toast 

Dainty bits of roast game, fowl, etc. , minced, 
warmed over, and served on toast are excellent 



20 



FRAPPE CHAMPAGNE. 



DIET DRINKS. 

Frapp6 Champagne renders important ser- 
vice in irritable states of the stomach, especially 
in sea-sickness, vomiting of pregnancy, yellow- 
fever, cholera morbus, and cholera. To pro- 
duce /rappe champagne quickly, proceed as fol- 
lows : Put into a metal wine-cooler, or any 
other metal receptacle, a bottle of dry cham- 
pagne, surround it with alternate layers of rock 
salt and cracked ice, place the cooler on the hoi 
range, and the rapid melting of the ice will so- 
lidify the wine in five minutes ; if allowed to re- 
main a longer period the wine will become solid, 
and refuse to leave its glassy prison. 

When we take into consideration the kct that 
by the old method of revolving the wine in its 
icy walls, a period of thirty minutes is required 
to /rappe it, the above phenomenal method 
of producing the desired result will be appre- 
ciated. 

Sparkling wines, as a rule, are more seda- 
tive to the stomach, and more intoxicating 
relatively to their alcoholic strength than still 
wines. 

Sweet champagnes contain a vast quantity of 
unappropriated sugar. When such wines are 



WINE WHEY. 



21 



used they produce acid fermentation, and acidity 
with headache quite naturally follows. 

Agents of sweet champagnes wear out their 
vocal chords telling their patrons to serve wines 
as cold as possible ; in this way the sugar is not 
easily detected, and a large sale of particular 
brands is the result But let me warn my read 
ers who use champagne that a fine dry cham- 
pagne is almost ruined by the low temperature 
at which it is usually served at restaurants, re- 
ceptions, etc. A very cold champagne is a dan- 
gerous tipple for even a healthy stomach, espe- 
cially near bedtime. 

Wine Whey.— Boil a pint of sweet milk and 
add half a gill of sherry. Let it simmer for 
fifteen minutes, skim off the curd, add a gill of 
sherry, and remove curd TxS it rises. Straining 
may be necessary to remove the curd entirely. 
Sweeten. 

Eggnog.— Scald half a pint of milk ; when 
cold add one egg well beaten, I wo teaspoon fu Is 
of sugar, and a tablespoonful of choice brandy. 
Shake or beat the mixture with a fork. This 
formula is only intended for invalids, and is not 
the recipe used in cq/irs. 

Sherry and Egg.— Beat up one egg thor- 
oughly, add a teaspoonful of sugar, and a wine 
glass full of dry sherry. 



22 



CURRANT- JELLY WATER. 



FRUIT DRINKS. 

Currant-Jelly Water. -Dissolve a teaspoon- 
ful of currant-jelly in a goblet of cold water, 
and add one cake of cut sugar. 

Currant Water.— Simmer gently for ten 
minutes a pint of fresh-picked currants in a 
quart of water, add a heaping tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, and, when cold, strain. There 
is a little economy in adding the sugar after the 
juice is strained. 

'* Out upon the nonsense of taking medicine 
and nostrums during the currant season ! Let 
it be taught at theological seminaries that the 
currant is a * means of grace. * It is a correc- 
tive, and that is what average humanity most 
needs."— ^. P, Roe, in '* The Home Acre.'' 

Apple Water.— Mash two baked apples with 
a fork, and pour over them a pint of boiling 
water ; when cool strain and sweeten to taste. 

A Glass of Cold Water in the morning be- 
fore breakfast will, in many persons, produce 
the same effect as mineral waters. 



SKIMMED MILK. 



23 



MILK. 

Skimmed Milk.— In cases of intestinal dis- 
orders skimmed milk is better than pure milk, 
and in cases of disease, when fats must be omit- 
ted, it is very useful. 

The milk should stand twenty-four hours in 
a cool place, and all the cream which has risen 
should be carefully skimmed off. 

Buttermilk. -The author, who is an inveter- 
ate smoker, has for years drank buttermilk be- 
fore retiring, and during the day whenever it can 
be obtained. He is convinced that it neutral- 
izes the effects of the nicotine from the tobacco. 
The Journal of Health says : ** Buttermilk is ex- 
cellent for weak or delicate stomachs, and far 
better as a dinner drink than coffee, tea, or 
water, and, unlike them, does not retard, but 
rather aids, digestion. A celebrated physician 
once said that if every one knew the value of 
buttermilk as a drink, it would be more freely 
partaken of by persons who drink so excessively 
of other beverages ; and, further, compared its 
effects upon the system to the clearing out of a 
cook-stove that has been clogged up with ashes 
that have sifted through, filling up every crevice 
and crack, saying that the human system is like 



24 MILK. 

the stove, and collects and gathers refuse matter 
that can in no way be exterminated from the 
system so effectually as by drinking buttermilk. 
It is also a , specific remedy for indigestion, 
soothes and quiets the nerves, and is very som- 
nolent to those who are troubled with sleepless- 
ness. 

** Every one who values good health should 
drink buttermilk every day in warm weather, 
and let tea, coffee, and water alone. For the 
benefit of those who are not already aware of it, 
I may add that in the churning the first process 
of digestion is gone through, making it one of 
the easiest and quickest of all things to digest. 
It makes gastric juice, and contains properties 
that readily assimilate with it, with little or no 
wear upon the digestive organs." 

Milk, pure and simple, is a natural food, and 
should enter into the diet of adults as well as 
children. Lime-water is usually added to milk 
when the acidity of the stomach causes the latter 
to be rejected. When lime water is not obtain- 
able, the thorough beating of the milk with a 
fork will break the oily particles of the milk, 
causing it to digest more rapidly. 

A large glass of milk should not be given to 
children or persons of weak stomachs, for they 
are apt to use it immoderately. It should be 



FRUITS AS FOOD AND MEDICINE. 25 



drunk in small mouthfuls, and as slowly as pos- 
sible. 

The quaffing of a glass of cold milk on a hot 
day, without stopping to take breath, is a very 
dangerous proceeding. 



FRUITS AS FOOD AND MEDICINE. 

Of all the fruits with which we are blessed, the 
peach is the most delicious and digestible. 
There is nothing more palatable, wholesome, 
and medicinal than good ripe peaches. They 
should be ripe, but not over-ripe and half- 
rotten ; and of this kind they may make a part 
of either meal, or be eaten between meals ; but 
it is better to make them part of the regular 
meals. It is a mistaken idea that no fruit should 
be eaten at breakfast. It would be far better if 
our people would eat less bacon and grease at 
breakfast and more frui't. In the morning there 
is an acrid state of the secretions, and nothing 
is so well calculated to correct this as cooling 
sub-acid fruits, such as peaches, apples, etc. 
Still, some of us have been taught that eating 



26 FRUITS AS FOOD AND MEDICINE. 

fruit before breakfast is highly dangerous. 
However the idea originated, it is certainly a 
great error, contrary to both reason and fact. 

The apple is one of the best of fruits. Baked 
or stewed apples will generally agree with the 
most delicate stomach, and are excellent medi- 
cine in many cases of sickness. Green or half- 
ripe apples stewed and sweetened are pleasant to 
the taste, cooling, nourishing, and laxative, far 
superior, in many cases, to the abominable doses 
of salts and oil usually given in fever and other 
diseases. Raw apples and dried apples stewed 
are better for constipation than liver pills. 

Oranges are very acceptable to most stomachs, 
having all the advantages of the acid alluded 
to ; but the orange juice alone should be taken, 
rejecting the pulp. 

The same may be said of lemons, pomegran- 
ates, and all that class. Lemonade is the best 
drink in fever^, and, when thickened with sugar, 
is better than syrup of squills and other nau- 
seous medicines in many cases of cough. 

Tomatoes act on the liver and bowels, and are 
much more pleasant and safe than blue pills 
and ** liver regulators." The juice should be 
used alone, rejecting the skins. 

The small seeded fruits, such as blackberries, 
figs, raspberries, currants, and strawberries, may 



EATING BEFORE SLEEPING. 



27 



be classed among the best foods and medicines. 
The sugar in them is nutritious, the acid is 
cooling and purifying, and the seeds are laxative. 

We would be much the gainers if we would 
look more to our orchards and gardens for our 
medicines, and less to our drug-stores. To cure 
fever or act on the kidneys, no febrifuge or diu- 
retic is superior to watermelon, which may, 
with very few exceptions, be taken in sickness 
and health in almost unlimited quantities, not 
only without injury, but with positive benefit 
But in using them, the water or juice should be 
taken, excluding the pulp, and the melon should 
be fresh and ripe, but not over-ripe or stale, — 
Family Doctor, 



EATING BEFORE SLEEPING. 

A general impression prevails that to eat be- 
fore going to bed is an injurious and altogether 
an unwise habit. Much depends on the indi- 
vidual habits of persons ; in the case of one ac- 
customed to dine at six o'clock, and whose 
hour for retiring is nine o'clock, we must admit 
it would be unwise to partake of food before 



28 



RAW OYSTERS. 



sleep. On the other hand, the six-o* clock dinei, 
whose hour for retiring is from midnight to 
3 A.M., and whose rising hour is from 8 to ii 
A.M., must eat before going to bed if he wishes 
to avoid doctors' bills and sleeplessness. The 
interval between meals is decidedly too long a 
period for fasting. Empty stomachs have much 
.to do with insomnia and kindred diseases so 
prevalent among writers and other brain-work- 
ers. The languid, half-rested feeling on rising, 
and the cross, irritable peevishness of many 
when spoken to about breakfast are other symp- 
toms of altogether too long a period of fasting. 
The question of what food is the most suitable 
to eat before going to bed naturally arises. 
This must be decided by circumstances. One 
who has spent the evening in dancing or other 
exercise, naturally requires something more sub- 
stantial than one who has spent the evening in a 
quiet manner. 

Baw Oysters thoroughly masticated are easily 
digested, although weak stomachs should avoid 
condiments with them, and if the oysters are 
large, the ligament or muscle should be re- 
moved. 

Oyster Broth, stew, or soup when prepared 
with milk is acceptable at late suppers ; but the 
pernicious habit of many late diners of drinking 



PIGS* FEET. 



29 



cold ale and beer with cooked oysters, is one 
which the author strongly deprecates. 

Pigs' Feet when boiled until tender, then 
nicely broiled over a charcoal fire, are quite di- 
gestible, and, should Bass's ale be served with 
them, see to it that it has not been on ice, and 
is free from all evidence of carbonic-acid gas, 
which is found in the ** white label " bottling of 
Bass, making this particular brand objectionable 
for night drinking. 

Stewed Tripe with Oysters may be eaten 
at night, and a glass of very light Moselle wine 
— either still or sparkling — may be served with it. 

Boiled Sweetbreads cut into slices and 
warmed up in a light sauce, or served on toast 
en brocheite, are not apt to prevent sleep, or pro- 
duce indigestion. 

Poached Eggs are easily digested, but the 
soggy toast usually served with them is some- 
thing to avoid. 

Boiled Calf's Head cut into pieces as laiige 
as an oyster, then fried as one would fry dough- 
nuts, and served with a sauce tariare, is a favorite 
night dish of the author, as is also shad-roe 
stewed in cream. 

Cold Boast Beef, mutton, lamb, venison, or 
poultry, served with a dainty salad of water- 
cress, or escarale, and a glass of generous claret. 



HAMBURG STEAK. 



is not apt to be despised by one who sits up at 
night writing. 

A dainty surprise for the night-worker would 
be a plate of sandwiches made from thin slices 
of the breast of a cold roast canvas-back duck. 
Crisp celery may accompany the dish. Sand- 
wiches made of cold roast beef and venison are 
very nice. 

Hamburg Steak when reduced lo a pulp, 
and served raw, or but slightly singed to give it 
the appearance of being cooked, is most easily 
digested. A raw or slightly poached egg may 
be served with it. 

Baw Meat is invariably recommended in 
cases of debility when an easily digested nutri- 
ment is required. A method of treating diarrhcea^ 
long practised in Russia, consists in the use of 
raw meat, beaten in a mortar until all traces of 
fibre disappear. It is then seasoned to taste, 
and served in the form of sandwich. Fruit jelly 
is sometimes added to disguise the flavor of the 
meat. 

Venison Steak cooked in a chafing-dish, 
or nicely broiled over a charcoal fire, is unques- 
tionably one of the best of meats to eat late at 
night. While it does not possess the same 
nutritive value found in beef, it is more easily 
and quickly digested. 



CALF *S- FOOT JELLY. 



31 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

My only serious objection to late suppers is 
that, unless caution is exercised, one is apt to 
disarrange the stomach by drinking too much 
cold liquid, thereby preventing the food from 
digesting. A Welsh rarebit, in itself, is not so 
terrible a nightmare- producer as it has been often 
painted ; but when washed down with iced 
drinks it becomes a leathery mass of the most 
indigestible character. 

Deviled bones, chickens, kidneys, etc., when 
eaten late at night are apt to convince one who 
does not possess the digestive powers of an 
ostrich, that the name * * Deviled ' ' is peculiarly 
appropriate ; in fact, they are dyspepsia-breed- 
ing companions to fried oysters, iced tea, and 
heavy salads. 

In conclusion I will state that each individual 
must be his own adviser as to what should be 
eaten late at night ; he should know by experi- ^ 
ence what dishes agree with him, and not rely 
upon dogmatic health theories, which are at best 
confusing to the very people they are intended 
to benefit. 

Calf 's-foot Jelly.— The trouble and expense 
of preparing calf s-foot jelly at home is too 



32 THE HOT-WATER CURE 

great. It is therefore advisable to purchase it 
from the grocer or from caterers. 

The Hot-Water Curo.— Much has been 
written for and against this new remedial agent, 
and, in the opinion of the author, the fors" 
have the best of it. A goblet of hot water in the 
morning is beneficial to those who dine late the 
night before. Care must be exercised that the 
water is drawn fresh from the faucet, brought to 
boiling point, then served. 

Many are apt to serve hot water that has stood 
on the range over-night, the effect of which is 
one of nausea. 



PRACTICAL CARVING 



I 

i 



PREFACE. 



From my earliest recollection, I was taught 
to consider a thorough knowledge of the art of 
carving an important part of my education ; and 
the memories of my early struggles to master the 
art are vividly before me. 

The patience that was exhausted upon me, 
while training my youthful hands to hold the 
knife properly, was certainly not appreciated by 
me at the time. 

I could not see why it was important that 
my thumb, instead of the forefinger, should be 
placed on the back of the knife, when the latter 
way seemed more easy. Neither did I realize 
it to be an accomplishment to be able to carve 
with the left hand equally as well as with the 
right. 

5 



6 



PREFACE. 



Now that I have arrived at a more mature 
age^ I see and appreciate the importance of 
these things that seemed but trifles to me when 
I was young. I had often heard my father say 
that a young man's education was incomplete 
without a knowledge of carving, and his sons 
had every reason to believe he was serious in 
what he said. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

THE CARVING-KNIFE . . 9 
TO STAND OR SIT WHILE CARVING 1 1 
BEEF. 

Roast Ribs of Beef. How to Hold 

THE Knife 12 

Sirloin of Beef 13 

Tenderloin of Beef . . . 14 
Chuck-rib Roast . . . .14 
Miscellaneous Roasting Pieces . 14 
Porter-house Steak . . . .14 
Beef Tongue 15 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Leg of Mutton 16 

Shoulder of Mutton . • . 16 
Saddle of Mutton . . • .17 
Saddle of Lamb . . . . 18 

Leg of Lamb 18 

Fore-quarter of Lamb . . . 19 
Lamb's Tongue . , • , ,19 

7 



8 CONTENTS. 

VEAL. 

Leg of Veal 20 

Fillet of Veal c • . • 20 
Shoulder of Veal • • • .21 

Loin of Veal 21 

Calf's Tongue 22 

PORK. 

Sucking Pig 22 

Leg of Pork . • . • .22 

Ham 23 

POULTRY AND GAME. 

Domestic Duck 24 

Goose 25 

Canvas-back Duck .... 26 

Red-head Duck . . . . 27 

Teal Duck 27 

Spring Chicken. How to Select and 

HOW to Carve . . . . 27 

Boiled Capon 28 

Roast Turkey 29 

Squab 30 

English Pheasant . . . . 31 

Prairie Chicken 31 

FISH 32 

SERVING SAUCES WITH MEATS . 33 

REMARKS ON BONING MEAT . 33 



PRACTICAL CARVING. 



THE CARVING-KNIFE. 

In the stone age, when the savage tried his 
best to carve with a dull stone knife, he doubtless 
swore mentally; and while we have advanced 
to a marked degree beyond the savage and his 
food, and his implements for dividing that food, 
his barbaric trait of mental swearing is still with 
us, and will probably remain with us until the 
end of time, or until our servants realize that 
the carving-knife was not a tool originally in- 
tended by the head of the family for dissecting 
kindling-wood or peeling potatoes. 

Is there any thing more exasperating to a 
carver, at the announcement of dinner, than to 
find that his pet knife, which had been sharpened 
by an expert the day before, had that very day 
been used by some one to cut wire or equally 
hard substance? 

9 



lO 



KNIFE GRINDING. 



Flashes of wit and humor may abound until 
the moment of carving arrives, and the joUiest 
family party that ever gathered around the ma- 
hogany will be enveloped in gloom by the efforts 
of a carver at work with a dull knife. 

The grim, contorted face plainly indicates his 
feelings of discomfort and mental suffering. To 
you who are responsible for that dull knife, we 
would say, do you imagine the carver enjoys his 
task, or will enjoy his dinner? 

Who does not think, with us, that a dull knife 
is a thing of terror? It certainly breeds dys- 
pepsia ; it makes delicious viands unsavory ; and 
many a family quarrel has emanated from it. 

After the carving-tools have been used, they 
should be thoroughly cleaned, and the knives 
should be sharpened and well rubbed with a 
woollen cloth on which a little olive oil has been 
poured, when they should be wrapped in chamois 
and put away under lock and key. 

Knife Grinding. — Hold the knife perfectly 
flat against the stone, so that the blade evenly 
traverses the stone from point to handle. In 
no other way will the knife retain its edge. To 
spoil the knife completely, put a rounding edge 
on the knife. 

To Steel the Knife. — The instructions 
issued by Curley Brothers for sharpening a carv- 



TO STAND OR SIT WHILE CARVING. II 

ing-knife are so complete, that we take the liberty 
of embodying them in this work. 

A carver must be held at an angle of twenty 
to twenty-five degrees on the steel. 

*'Be careful to have the angle same on both 
sides, so as to sharpen instead of dulling the knife. 

" Draw it on the steel from heel to point against 
the edge ; only a very slight pressure required." 



TO STAND OR SIT WHILE CARVING. 

The height of chair and table has much to do 
with the question, To stand or sit while carving. 

It is exceedingly awkward to carve when 
sitting in a low chau: before a high table. 

In this position one cannot divide the parts in 
neat and appetizing forms. Small dishes such as 
steaks, and all birds, from the cock-sparrow to 
the princely canvas-back, are of course carved 
sitting. 

The carver's chair should be cushioned enough 
to bring the elbow of the carver almost on a line 
with the table. 

It is a good rule to follow, that the seat of the 
carver's chair should not be more than twelve 
inches below the level of the table, as a lower 
seat forces the arms into an unskilful position. 



12 



ROAST RIBS OF BEEF. 



BEEF. 

Roast Ribs of Beef. Haw to hold the 
Knife, — There are two ways of carving roast 
beef, and the rules will equally apply to the rib 
roast or the sirloin roast. 

First, Place the ribs on the platter with the 
thickest part towards you, and with the crisp, 
brown, fat surface up ; and trim off all burnt 
pieces, and all the small pieces of backbone 
overlooked by the dealer. Insert the fork in 
the centre of the joint, midway between the 
ends and right and left sides ; cut off two slices 
from the right-hand side, and reserve them for 
those who desire " well-done " beef. Now run 
the point of the knife along the whole length 
of the rib, parallel with it, and immediately next 
to it, and make a cut an inch deep over the 
rib. Hold the knife gracefully, but firmly, and 
with thumb extended over the back of the knife, 
instead of the forefinger, and cut thin slices down 
to the bone, when they will fall on the platter 
in neat, whole slices. 

With the finger extended over the back of the 
knife, you do not have the same control over 
the knife as when the thumb is extended ; and 



SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 



13 



you cannot, therefore, cut a slice that will be 
of equal thickness throughout. When • carving 
small pieces of meat, game, etc., this rule is not 
imperative. 

Second, Place the meat on the platter, as de- 
scribed in the foregoing, and trim it ; turn it on 
end, with the thickest part towards you, and the 
crisp, brown skin, or rather fat, to your right. 
Insert the fork between the ribs, which are now 
to the left, and carve towards the left. The 
object gained in this mode of carving is that 
the juices remain in the meat instead of running 
out and on to the platter ; and in this way the 
slices contain 'their full quota of juice, and are 
therefore more desirable. 

Sirloin of Beef. — This joint of beef may 
be placed on the platter after the modes de- 
scribed in "roast beef." The thickest end is 
placed towards you, and the black and burnt 
outside neatly trimmed. Then run the point 
of the knife along the flat bone at the right, and 
cut in about an inch deep ; then cut slices from 
the right side. Should the flank be too large, 
it is best and more economical to cut it off" in 
one piece. The tenderloin, when not intended 
to be served cold, should be cut out, and each 
guest receive a small slice of it in addition to 
the sirloin. They appreciate tenderloin, and 
your servants might not. 



14 



TENDERLOIN OF BEEF. 



Tenderloin of Beef. — Request the dealer 
to remove the thin membraneous sack envelop- 
ing the meat, and either lard the latter by the aid 
of a larding needle, or cover it with a long thin 
piece of larding pork. When cooked, place it 
on the platter, and carve across the loin, begin- 
ning at the thickest end, which should be to the 
right. The slices should be about twice as thick 
as slices of roast beef. A good gravy or sauce 
should accompany tenderloin, as it is a some- 
what dry meat, having but little flavor of its own, 
tenderness being its only recommendation. 

Chuck-rib Roast. — Notwithstanding the 
fact that this piece of beef is much cheaper than 
other rib cuts, it is usually avoided by house- 
keepers, who find it troublesome and unsatis- 
factory to carve. Remove the blade bone 
before roasting. After roasting, cut the piece 
of shoulder meat free from the thick, juicy part, 
place it on a separate plate, and carve it across 
the grain ; serve a slice of it with each slice of the 
choice part ; and, by pouring over it a little of 
the " dish gravy," it becomes quite presentable. 

Miscellaneous Roasting Pieces of 
Beef, such as the rump, aitchbone, round, and 
rolled meat, should be carved across the grain. 

Porter-house Steak. — Trim off all sur- 
plus fat, which is apt to bum while cooking, and 



BEEF TONGUE, 



make an unnecessary amount of smoke. Ex- 
amine the thickest end, and carefully remove 
minute particles of bone which may adhere to the 
steak and produce inflammation of the intestines, 
when swallowed. Do not remove the bone which 
separates the sirloin from the tenderloin, as it 
keeps the steak in shape ; after broiling the steak, 
add to it a walnut of the best table butter, salt, 
and white pepper ; place it on the table, and sepa- 
rate both pieces of meat from the bone. Divide 
the tenderloin into as many pieces as there are 
guests. Cut the sirloin into strips an inch and 
a half wide, and across the grain, and serve to 
each guest a piece of each. 

Beef Tongue. — From an economical point 
of view, it is best to serve the tip of the tongue 
first, as it will dry up quickly and become in- 
digestible if allowed to stand a few days. Trim 
off the ragged, thick end, and remove the little 
bones found therein ; cut a two-inch piece from 
the tip of the tongue, and slice it as thin as 
possible. 



i6 



LEG OP MUTTON. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Leg of Mutton. — The leading silversmiths 
make a shank-holder which is more useful to 
the carver of a leg of mutton than the fork ; and, 
when one of these is not at hand, white paper 
wrapped around the bone may be substituted. 
Cut from outer side of the leg of mutton, and 
lengthwise of the leg, a good-sized slice; this 
prevents the leg from moving about the dish 
whenever touched, and brings the inner or thick- 
est part of the mutton conveniently before the 
carver. Hold the shank firmly, and cut into 
the centre of the leg to the bone. The first 
two slices should be slightly wedge-shaped, and 
should be served to those who really appreciate 
the " Pope's eye " of mutton. Slice from the 
thickest part before carving from the lower part, 
and with each slice a thin slice of fat should be 
served. 

The wise carver serves the toothsome bit 
known as the knuckle to himself. We think he 
deserves this nugget of sweetness. 

Shoulder of Mutton. — The blade is a 
"bone of contention" to the beginner in carv- 
ing. Its mission seems to be the trying of one's 



SADDLE OF MUTTON. 



patience, and the destruction of the carver's 
appetite. I advise my readers, who cannot suc- 
cessfully carve this joint, to ask the butcher to 
give them a few lessons in boning it ; after which 
they will have little trouble to carve it, knowing 
the location of the bones. Turn the shoulder 
on its edge, with the outside or upper part to- 
wards you, and cut slices from the top edge; 
the first slices which are cut from the top are 
nearly all fat, and are placed one side, and 
pieces of them served with the lean. Now cut 
slices from the part above the knuckle, and 
down to it, until the bones are exposed. Then 
place the joint flat on the dish, and slice from 
both sides of the blade-bone ridge ; then remove 
the blade-bone, and cut the remainder of the 
joint across the grain. 

Saddle of Mutton. — Trim off all surplus 
flank and fat, as it is only in the carver's way, 
and seldom, if ever, eaten by the guests. Press 
the sides well in, and wind a string around the 
joint, to hold it in good form. After roasting, 
place it on the table, with the tail end to the left. 

As to how the joint should be carved, is a 
question decided by the number of guests and 
the host's idea of economy. The economical 
host will carve thus : Make a long deep cut 
parallel with the backbone, and cut away one 



i8 



SADDLE OF LAMB. 



side of the loin in one whole piece, but let it 
remain in place, and cut slices across the grain, 
beginning at the right. Carve the other side of 
the loin in the same manner. If the tenderloin 
is wanted, turn the joint, and cut it out entire. 

When the question of economy " has nothing 
to do with the case," the mode of carving is as 
follows: Make a deep cut the whole length, 
and parallel with the backbone, and cut long, 
even one-eighth-inch slices with the grain ; then 
divide each slice into pieces not over five inches 
long. The carving must be done quickly, as 
the fat cools rapidly, in which condition it cloys 
on the palate. 

Saddle of Lamb.— This joint is the choi- 
cest of spring meats. It comes to us at a season 
of the year when game of all kinds is in poor 
condition (even if allowed to be sold), and for 
private dinner parties we know of no dish that 
equals it. The rules for carving it are the same 
as those for carving the loin of mutton. 

Leg of Lamb. — By this term we mean a 
leg having the loin attached, and called a hind- 
quarter, which is the cut generally sold in New 
York. When the family is small, cut off the 
loin and use it for chops, and roast the leg, which 
is carved much the same as a leg of mutton. 
It being very tender, one part of it is no more 



FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. 1 9 



choice than another; and the only care to be 
exercised is to keep in mind that cold lamb is 
the daintiest of cold meats. The joint should 
therefore be carved in as neat a manner as 
possible, to have a presentable cold joint for the 
following meal. 

Fore-Quarter of Lamb. — From the fore- 
quarter of lamb only do we obtain those delight- 
ful little chops, and a few of them should in- 
variably be cut from the joint before it is roasted. 
The breast, or brisket, is another part of the 
joint from which an excellent dish is made. 

After roasting, place the joint on the platter, 
and with the breast towards you. The first cut 
should be the removal of the shoulder, with the 
blade-bone attached; and each guest should 
receive a dainty rib, a piece of the brisket, or, if 
preferred, a slice from the shoulder. 

Lamb's Tongue. — These tidbits are in- 
variably served whole ; but they look more 
appetizing when cut in two lengthwise ^ and each 
half temptingly arranged on a crisp leaf of 
lettuce, with quarters of lemon on the sides 
of the dish. 



ao 



LEG OF VEAL. 



VEAL. 

Leg of Veal. — Aside from the excellent 
soups and sauces made from veal, the toothsome 
kidney, delicious sweetbreads, and the head, 
Americans are not, as a class, fond of veal ; and 
a whole leg of veal is seldom seen upon their 
tables. It is a profitable joint, however, for 
large families, and from it may be cut the cutlets 
for the cooking of which the Germans hold the 
secret. After the leg is cooked, delightful 
croquettes may be made from that which is left 
after dinner. The carving of a leg of veal is a 
simple matter, after the hip-bone has been 
removed, which should be done before the leg 
is cooked. Place the leg on a large platter, 
the thicker end to the right, and the shank to the 
left. Carve slices from the thickest side of 
the leg-bone first, and then from the other side, 
to keep the face of the joint as even as possible. 

I have seen carvers carve this joint the same 
as recommended for the carving of a leg of 
mutton; but too much waste was the usual 
result 

Fillet of Veal is a long strip of veal cut 
from the leg. It is the best part of the leg, in 



SHOULDER OF VEAL. 



31 



fact. This is larded with either bacon or salt 
pork^ and cooked and served the same as fillet 
of beef. To carve, place the thickest end to 
the right, and cut across the grain. 

Shoulder of Veal. — This joint being much 
larger than a shoulder of mutton, I have found 
it more convenient to cut off the fore-leg and 
the blade from the ribs, which, if the breast or 
brisket is not removed, will be too long. They 
should be chopped in two before being cooked. 

When the butcher neglects to separate the 
ribs with .the cleaver, cut the meat clean from 
the bone, and save the bones for soup meat. If 
instinct will not tell the carver which way to 
carve the meat after it is cut from the bone, 
books cannot. 

LfOin of Veal. — A loin of veal is that part 
of the animal between the hip-bone and ribs. 
It covers the tenderloin and kidneys, and does 
not have ribs as declared in a recent publica- 
tion. 

To carve, place the joint with the thickest 
part towards you. Make one long cut along the 
backbone, separate meat from bone entirely, 
and send the bone from the table. Carve the 
meat across the grain, from flank to loin. 

A small loin of veal should have the back- 
bone separated into three-quarter-inch pieces. 



22 



calf's tongue. 



When carved, a piece of bone will be attached * 
to each piece of meat. 

Calfs Tongue, either fresh or pickled, 
should be cut in three pieces, lengthwise. 



PORK. 

Sucking Pig. — This is one of the easiest 
dishes to carve ; and yet, out of two hundred 
gentlemen who were on a picnic, but one of 
them felt competent to carve a roast pig. Send 
the pig to table whoky with the head to the 
right-hand, and tail to the left-hand side. First 
cut off the head, and split it in two. Split the 
body down the back, and place the parts on 
the dish, crackling side up. 

Cut off the fore-legs, with blade attached; 
next cut off the hind-quarters, and divide the 
ribs, arranging the meat as neatly as possible on 
the dish. Serve a little stuffing to each guest. 

A dish of small baked apples is more present- 
able than apple sauce. 

Leg of Pork. — This is the only leg of a 
domestic animal which I think is improved by 
boning and stuffing. 

Select a leg weighing not over five poimds, 
stuff it, and score the rind in diamonds ; place it 



TO CARVE A HAM. 



in a pan, and dredge it with salt ; place a papei 
over it to prevent the crackling from burning ; 
let this remain for half an hour, then remove, 
and cook the joint for one and a half hours 
longer in a not too hot oven. 

One word to those who advocate basting this 
joint. When the fire is too hot, the rind is 
very apt to bum, and then it may be slightly 
basted; but otherwise do not baste it, if you 
love crisp crackling. Should the joint receive 
the amount of basting recommended by some 
writers, a gummy rind will be the result, which 
nothing short of the stomach of an ostrich could 
digest. 

To carve a Ham. — Much depends on how 
the ham is to be used. A family desiring fried 
or broiled ham should spht the ham lengdiwise, 
and then cut thin, even slices across the grain. 
The half with the bone in it may be boiled or 
baked, if the family is a small one. When a 
whole ham appears on the table, the cook should 
see to it that its appearance is improved as much 
as possible. It should be neatly trimmed round 
the edges, and the fat should be free from rust. 
The rind, if left on, should be scalloped at the 
broad end in a neat manner. To carve a whole 
ham, make an incision in the thickest part of 
the ham down to the bone, and work towards 



24 



THE DOMESTIC DUCK. 



the large end. The knife used for carving a 
ham should be very thin and very sharp, or the 
slices will be uneven, — a very objectionable 
feature. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

The Domestic Duck. — The novice in 
carving quickly discovers that the domestic duck 
is the most exasperating fowl he has to contend 
with. 

Twist the wings under the duck, and truss the 
legs close to the body and under the vent. In 
this way they are out of the way. 

After roasting, place it on the platter, with the 
tail towards you, and the head from you. 

The usual instructions are to " insert the fork 
firmly across the ridge of the breast ; " but, when 
this is done, the tines make two unsightly grooves 
in four slices of the best part of the duck (two 
on each side of the ridge). 

The author finds it easier to insert the fork in 
the left side, close down to the backbone, the 
ends of the tines penetrating the back to secure 
a firm hold. 

First, cut three thin slices from the right side 
of the breast, holding the knife almost flat 
against the breast. Now cut off the wing, which 



TO CARVE A GOOSE. 



25 



is only in the way, and contains "poor pickin's." 
Continue carving the breast until the wish-bone 
prevents further progress ; then carve the other 
side in the same manner. The carver may 
change the position of the fork if he desires, 
but old carvers do not do so. After carving the 
breast, and having removed the wings, separate 
the wish-bone, or merry-thought, from the 
breast-bone ; free it from the shoulders, which 
is a somewhat troublesome operation for begin- 
ners. The legs may be removed, if there is not 
breast enough for all; but they are not a 
particularly dainty cut, and most carvers leave 
them for the servants. 

The best rule for the inexperienced carver to 
follow is to carve the breast in the best manner 
possible, and omit carving or trying to separate 
the joints, as there is but little to be gained. 

To carve a Goose. — Much of the fore- 
going instructions for carving a duck apply to 
the goose. The breast is the choice part, and 
the joints are difficult to find and separate. 

Cut the slices from the breast quite thin, 
holding the knife quite flat against the bird, as 
otherwise one is very apt to cut uneven slices. 

The stuffing is so thoroughly soaked with 
goose grease, that it should not be served to any 
one but " day-laborers." 



26 TO CARVE A CANVAS-BACK DUCK. 

To carve a Canvas-back Duck. — Half 
a duck is considered a portion, and each guest 
is supposed to receive half of the plump, juicy 
flesh of the breast. This is the rule at banquets 
and at club dinners. 

For private families, however, the author 
recommends that the breast be divided into four 
pieces, as otherwise the dinner would be too 
expensive for the average household. 

To carve, place the duck on the platter, breast 
up, and head from you. Insert the fork through 
the centre of the wish-bone, or merry-thought ; 
press firmly on the fork, which inclines slightly 
from you, so that the points of the fork are 
firmly imbedded in the back. 

The position of the hand on the fork is the 
reverse of the ordinary manner of holding it; 
that is, the thumb extends towards the end of 
the handle. In this way a very firm grip is 
obtained, and the fork is out of the way of the 
knife. If the fork pierces the centre of the breast, 
it prevents the knife from working close to the 
breast-bone ridge, where lies a most toothsome 
morsel. Make the first cut along the right-hand 
side of the ridge, keeping very close to it, and 
cut down to the fiat breast-bone; follow this, 
and free the meat from the lower part of the 
breast, and work up to the shoulder, and around 



RED-HEAD DUCK. 27 

that side of the wish-bone. Turn the meat over 
with the knife^ exposing the shoulder joint; 
separate it here, and serve. While this may 
appear complicated to some, it is but the work 
of a moment. Carve the left side in the same 
manner. 

Red-head Duck. — Many claim there is 
but a slight difference between this duck and 
the foregoing, and that it is almost impossible to 
discover this difference. 

Aside from the difference in flavor of the 
flesh, and shape and color of head and bill, there 
is a vast difference between these birds ; and the 
close observing carver cannot be deceived. The 
red-head is carved, however, in the same manner 
as the canvas-back. 

Teal Duck. — Select a blue- wing instead of 
a green-wing teal. This duck should be split in 
two lengthwise before it is sent to table. 

Spring Chicken. — To know when a broiler 
is fat and juicy, one should examine the back- 
bone. The greater the amount of fat along the 
vertebrae, the fatter will be the chicken in all 
other parts of the body. Should the wattles and 
comb look duD, dingy, or of a leaden color, the 
bird should be rejected, as sickness is thereby 
indicated. A roasted chicken is placed on 
table with the head from you; the first cut is a 



28 



BQILED CAPON. 



slight one on the right breast down to the wing ; 
and, without lifting the knife, the latter is re- 
moved. Next the leg is cut off. Third, cut 
away the wing and leg of left side. Fourth, 
cut the breast in two by separating it from the 
back ; turn the breast, and split it in two from 
the inside. 

A large chicken is carved much the same as a 
turkey or capon, which see. 

Boiled Capon. — A capon is at its best 
boiled ; but, as with nearly all boiled fowls, a very 
sharp knife is necessary in carving the breast. 
A dull knife will tear the flesh, and produce un- 
sightly slices. 

Truss the fowl with twine instead of skewers, 
and, when cooked, place it on the platter, tail 
towards you, and head from you. 

Insert the fork well forward in the breast, and 
cut away the strings, which should have been 
removed before the bird was sent to table. 

First, cut a very thin slice from the right-hand 
side of the breast, down to, and including, the 
wing-bone. 

Second and third, cut the skin on both sides 
of the second joint ; press the knife gently out- 
ward, and you will quickly discover where the 
joint is attached to the back; separate them. 
Now take miother fork (leaving the flrst fork in 



ROAST TURKEY. 



29 



the breast), and divide the drum-stick from the 
second joint while it is in hand. Cut the second 
joint in two lengthwise. 

Next, cut neat, full-sized slices from the breast 
until the knife is obstructed by the wish-bone, 
which separate from the breast-bone and right 
shoulder only ; for, should it be cut completely 
off, the slices of breast on the left-hand side 
would be smaller than they should be. Gently 
draw the bird over on its left side, and with one 
quick, sharp stroke with the knife, cut part way 
through the right centre of the back. Cut 
from the Pope's nose along the back, up to 
this cut, to procure the side bone. The left 
side is carved in the same manner as herein 
described. 

Roast Turkey. — Truss the bird with twine 
instead of skewers; place the cooked bird, 
with the head from you, on a large platter. 
Have ready one small and one large knife, 
one small and one large fork. Insert the 
large fork through the centre of the breast, 
the tines astraddle of the ridge. Cut away the 
twine, and cut two thin slices of white meat 
from the breast down to the shoulder. Now 
divide the wing from the shoulder, which, if done 
before cutting the two slices, that part of the 
fowl and the upper ends of the slices will be 



30 



SQUAB. 



ragged. The expert will next divide the drum- 
stick from the second joint; but the beginner 
should cut above the second joint down towards 
the back, then cut on the lower side, press the 
joint gently outward with the knife, and with 
the point of the knife neatly, and seemingly with- 
out effort, divide the joints. 

Now use the small knife and fork to separate 
the drum-stick and second joint, and also to 
divide the latter while in hand. Slice off the 
breast in wide, long, and not too thin slices. 
Cut off the Pope's nose, and the side bone, as 
described in article on capon. The " oysters " 
on the back belong with the side bones, and 
should not be detached from them. The wish- 
bone should be separated from the breast-bone 
and shoulder ; and a quick stroke will separate 
the collar-bone from the breast; another will 
give you the shoulder blade, around which is 
fair " picking." The left side is carved the same 
as the right side, and it is considered quite an 
accomplishment to be able to carve with the left 
hand as well as the right. 

Squab. — When a dinner consists of many 
courses, and guests are surfeited, a roasted 
squab, or even a broiled squab, may be split in 
two ; but, under all ordinary circumstances, each 
guest should receive a whole bird. 



ENGLISH PHRASANTS. 



31 



English Pheasants. — These birds are 
quite plentiful, but dear during winter, and are 
quite frequently met with at private dinners. 

Owing to the long sea voyage, they are quite 
strongly flavored, or rather gamey, by the time 
they reach our tables ; and we advise that only 
the breast be served. Each side of the breast 
may be divided into two slices. 

The legs and thighs should only be served to 
those who advocate " high game." 

Prairie Chicken. — Lard the breast neatiy 
with a larding needle, or place a thin slice of 
larding pork over the breast, and secure it when 
trussing the bird. When roasted, remove the 
twine, insert the fork on the left-hand side, and 
place the bird with its head from you. Cut both 
legs from the body ; and, if intended for two 
persons, carve the breast from the right side in 
one whole piece by cutting close to the ridge 
i5rst, then slipping the knife along the breast- 
bone down to the shoulder, and removing the 
wing at the same time. Carve the left in 
the same manner. 



FISH. 



FISH. 

The flounder, the English sole, and the small 
chicken halibut are carved thus: Divide the 
fish lengthwise down to the bone, run the fish- 
knife along the sides fi^om head to tail ; then 
divide each half in three-inch pieces if the fish 
is a thin one, and two-inch pieces if a thick one. 

Remove the bone as soon as exposed, and 
divide the under side in the same manner. 

A shoulder of cod, or a piece of salmon, is 
served best if the fish is divided, and the upper 
piece placed on the dish, then divided into por- 
tions. The bone is then removed from the 
lower piece, and it is divided into portions. 

To divide the top piece into portions, as is 
usually done, we find, that, no matter how care- 
ful in serving, the lower part of the fish is 
bruised. 



SERVING SAUCES WITH MEATS. 33 



SERVING SAUCES WITH MEATS. 

Do not pour a sauce over a portion of meat 
unless you have some special object in view; 
for instance, should you find a slice of roast beef 
too rare, pour the hot gravy over it, and it will 
look " medium " done. If the beef is very dry, 
as is apt to be the case with frozen meats, pour 
a little of the sauce or gravy on the dish first, 
and then add the meat. It will look juicy, and 
the gravy on the dish will look as though it had 
run out of the meat. 

When boiled mutton is too rare or too well 
done, pour the sauce over the meat, and then 
strew over it a few capers. 

When the meat is just as ordered, either send 
the sauce to table in a boat, or serve it on one 
side of the meat. 



REMARKS ON BONING MEAT. 

Many writers recommend the removal of all 
bone before cooking the meat. They say " it 
facilitates carving." Perhaps it does ; but " boned 
meat" does not possess the same delicious 
flavor as meat cooked with the bone. 



I 



LUNCHEON 



CONTENTS. 

PAGI 

REMARKS ON LUNCHEON . .11 
RELISHES FOR THE LUNCHEON 

TABLE 13 

German Radishes . . . . 14 

Pickles 14 

Nasturtiums* Pickled . . . 15 
Tomatoes for Winter Use . . 15 
Field Mushrooms for Winter Use 15 
Mushroom Table Sauce . . .16 
Chervil Vinegar . . . . 16 
Preserved Watermelon Rind . . 17 
Preserved Strawberries . . 17 
Preserved Peaches . . . .18 
Brandy Peaches . . . . 19 
"Sweet-Pickle" Peaches . . .19 
Crab Apples' Pickled . . . 20 
Tomatoes in Sweet Pickle . . 21 
Pears in Sweet Pickle . . . 21 
Cucumbers in Sweet Pickle . . 21 
Fig Tomatoes . . . . 22 
Tomato Ketchup .... 23 

5 



6 CONTENTS. 

PAGH 

FISH AND SHELL FISH . . 24 

Raw Oysters 24 

Oysters en Brochette ... 25 

Fried Oysters 25 

Curry of Oysters ... 25 

Deviled Oysters on Toast . . 26 

Pickled Oysters . . . • 26 

Soft Clams in Chafing Dish . . 26 

Stewed Little-Neck Clams . . 27 

Soft Clams 27 

Snapping Turtle . . . . 27 

Shrimp Paste 28 

Finnan Haddie with Poached Eggs 29 

Spiced Salmon 29 

Broiled Yarmouth Bloaters . . 30 
How to eat Prepared and Preserved 

Fish 30 

Potted Fish 31 

Potted Eels 31 

Fried Eels 32 

Codfish Balls . . . . 32 
Shad Roe en Brochette . . .33 

HASH. — y^ Kind Word for it . 33 

Corned Beef Hash . . . . 34 

Minced Lamb on Toast . . 35 

Beef Hash with Poached Egg . . 35 

Minced Ham with Poached Egg . 35 



CONTENTS. 7 

PAGE 

Frizzled Beef with Egg ... 36 

MACARONI 36 

Macaroni with Roast Meats . . 37 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce . 37 

Macaroni Pie 38 

Spaghetti 38 

LUNCHEON CURRIES ... 39 

Curry of Baked Fish ... 39 

Curry of Cold Roast Beef . . 40 

Fresh Beef Curry ... 40 

Curry of Brisket of Lamb . . 41 

Curry of Frogs' Legs . . . 42 
Curry of Prawns . . . .42 

EGGS AND OMELETS ... 44 

Chicken-Liver Omelet ... 44 

Kidney Omelet .... 45 

Omelet with Spanish Pepper . . 46 

Pickled-Oyster Omelet . . 46 
Crayhsh Omelet . . , .47 

Stuffed Eggs . . . . 47 

Eggs with Brown Butter . . . 47 

Oyster-Crab Omelet ... 48 

PATTIES 48 

Dainty Luncheon Patties . . 48 

Beef Paities , , , , , 49 



8 



CONTENTS. 



VEGETABLES 50 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes ... 50 

Sweet-Potato Souffl^ ... 50 

Fried Sweet Potatoes . . .51 

Green Corn, Maryland style . 51 

Green Corn Fritiers . . .51 

Elder- Flower Frhters . . 52 

Oyster-Plant Croquettes . . .52 

Egg Plant, Fried . . . . 53 

SWEETBREADS 53 

Lamb Sweetijreads, Tomato Sauce 53 

SWEEl'BREADS, BrOILED , . '53 

Sweetbreads, Stewed ... 54 

Sweetbreads with Scrambled Eggs . 54 

MISCELLANEOUS .... 55 

GoLOASH, Hungarian style . . 55 

Spring Chicken Paprika . . 55 

Oyster and Chicken Pie . . .55 

Chicken, Economical Use of . 56 

Calf's Liver en BROCHErrE . . 56 

A Lenten Luncheon Dish . . 57 

Potted Pigeons 57 

Blackbirds en Brochette . . 58 

Calf's Brains 58 

Croquetfes of Calf's Brains . 58 

^TEWED Beef with Dumplings , , 59 



CONTENTS. 9 

PAGE 

Flank Steak 60 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef . . 61 

Lamb's Liver . . . . 61 

Lamb's Liver, saut6, with Potatoes . 62 

Lamb's Liver, au gratin . . 62 

Cold Tongue 63 

Cold Tongue with Nudels . . 63 

NUDELS 63 

Venison Steak, Sauce Bearnaise . 64 

Sauce B^:arnaise .... 65 

Venison Steak in Chafing Dish . 65 

Cheese Toast 66 

Cheese Fondu .... 66 

Sausages 66 

Ham 67 

Deviled Ham 67 

Ham in Chafing Dish . . . 67 

Ham, a la Russe .... 67 

Spare Ribs with Apple Fritters . 68 

Frankfort Sausages .... 68 

Pigs' Fw 68 



REMARKS ON LUNCHEON. 



The midday meal of the household is too 
often an indifferent affair, or consists of ingredients 
which upset the system instead of benefiting it. 

This should not be. Quite as much care 
should be exercised in the table appointments 
at lunch as at any other meal. 

If servants are allowed to shirk their duties 
at one time, is it not human to expect them to 
be careless whenever they feel so disposed ? 

Should a child be expected to have pretty 
table manners at a particular meal, when he is 
allowed to run riot at others? 

Heavy soups should not appear at the lunch- 
eon table, for it is too much to ask of a servant 
to make soup twice a day. 

Clam broth, however, is easily made, and 
served in cups is always acceptable. 

Small china crocks of beef extract should 
always be on hand for emergency cases, as a 
cup of bouillon is then quickly prepared. 

A stew of oysters, clams, scallops, or a dainty 



12 



REMARKS ON LUNCHEON. 



lobster or prawn stew, is most appropriate at 
luncheon. 

The dish takes the place of shellfish and soup, 
and is, as it were, a combination of the two. 

Vegetable salads occupy a similar position, 
for they take the place of special vegetables and 
the salad. Fish salads also serve this purpose ; 
and a lunch table with a bounteous dish of well- 
made fish salad is considered at all times a 
well-appointed table. 

This rule equally applies to a well-made salad 
of poultry or meats. 

A well-made hot dish of some kind should 
invariably appear at lunch table, and much 
more care should be taken with it than even 
the joints for dinner. 

If they are not well made and served, they 
will not be eaten, and much good food and 
seasoning will thereby be spoiled. 

The utilization of the culinary odds and ends, 
which accumulate in the ice-box and pantry, 
deserves the highest consideration ; for without 
this it would be impossible to please the palates 
of the " men-folks," who, if fed on a continual 
diet of fresh meats which were but once cooked, 
would become unbearable. Their nerves would 
be shattered ; and happiness, under such a con- 
dition of things, would be impossible. 



RELISHES FOR THE LUNCHEON TABLE. 1 3 



RELISHES FOR THE LUNCHEON 
TABLE. 

Reushes are very essential at the lunch table, 
and they should be served in as neat a manner 
as possible. 

They should be constantly varied from day to 
day, whenever possible. 

On fish days the salted anchovies and the Ger- 
man sardellen are acceptable ; they should, how- 
ever, be served in fillets or strips, and fi-ee firom 
skin and bone. Lemon should be. served with 
them. 

Broiled sardines are sometimes served as a 
relish. 

When cold roast meats are served, a most ac- 
ceptable relish to accompany them is pickled 
walnuts. A jar of horse radish is always appre- 
ciated by the lover of cold meats. 

Radishes are excellent as a relish, but they 
should' not be served repeatedly. If they are, 
they are more apt to cloy and dull one's appe- 
tite than to tantalize it. 

A most agreeable relish will be found in the 
raw green sweet peppers; they are not too 



14 



GERMAN RADISHES. 



peppery, and their peculiar flavor is a delight 
to the epicure. 

German Radishes. — The little red radish 
is seldom tender after the first of June, and in 
its stead we name the white rusty German 
radishes, which are excellent. Scrape off the 
outer coating, and cut the radish in very thin 
slices ; arrange them on a platter, and stcew 
over them a liberal quantity of salt ; let them 
stand a few moments, then serve. 

The long black radish is prepared thus : Scrape 
off the skin carefully, and cut the thin slices 
nearly through without spoiling the shape of thtf 
radish or dividing it, then insert a little salt be- 
tween the slices; let it stand fifteen minutes, 
and eat by pulling off one or two slices at a 
time. 

Pickles. — Wash one hundred small cucum- 
bers in cold water, dry them in a cloth, and put 
them in a butter firkin or an unglazed crock. 
Boil two gallons of water, and add a pound and 
a quarter of coarse kitchen salt; skim until 
clear, and pour it on the cucumbers ; let them 
remain in the brine three days ; drain thera in a 
colander. Wash out the vessel, and put into it 
a sliced raw onion, three green peppers sliced, a 
tablespoonful of mustard seeds, a tablespoonful 
each of whole cloves, peppercorns, and allspice. 



NASTURTIUMS PICKLED. 



Now add the cucumbers, and pour over them 
two gallons of boiling cider vinegar. The spices 
may be put in a thin cloth bag if desired ; and 
if you wish to have the pickles brittle, add a bit 
of alum the size of two peas. The cucumbers 
may remain in the brine for days, but should be 
soaked in fresh water before pickling. 

Nasturtiums Pickled. — Wash the fleshy 
fruits in cold water, and drain. Strew over each 
quart of them a teaspoonful of salt ; let them 
stand over night. Wipe them dry and free from 
salt, and put them in bottles. Boil a quart of 
vinegar with an ounce of whole mixed spice. 
When it is cold, add a little of it to each bottle. 
If the seeds are packed closely, half a pint of 
the vinegar will be sufficient in each bottle. Add 
a few whole green tarragon leaves to each bottle, 
cork and seal. 

Tomatoes for Winter Use. — Select 
sound and thoroughly-ripe tomatoes, scald and 
peel them ; parboil them three minutes ; salt 
slightly; put them into warm jars, and make 
them air-tight as fast as tilled. 

Field Mushrooms for Winter Use. — 
Select the smallest of those gathered, and wipe 
them free from grit. Put into a frying pan a 
quarter of a pound of the very best butter. Add 
to it two whole cloves, a saltspoonful of salt, and 



1 6 MUSHROOM TABLE SAUQE. 

a tablespoonful of lemon juice. When hot add a 
quart of the small mushrooms, toss them about 
in the butter for a moment only, then put them 
in jars ; fill the top of each jar with an inch or 
two of the butter, and let it cool. Keep the jars 
in a cool place, and when the butter is quite 
firm, add a fop layer of salt. Cover to keep 
out dust. 

Mushroom Table Sauce. — Select the 
largest mushrooms for this purpose. Put into 
the wooden chopping bowl a layer of mush- 
rooms with the root ends upright. Strew over 
them a layer of fine salt. Repeat this process 
until five pounds of mushrooms and one pound 
of salt are used. Cover with a cloth, and let 
them stand forty-eight hours ; then rub through 
a colander or sieve, and put it in an unglazed 
crock or porcelain-lined kettle. Mix together 
one-quarter of an ounce of black pepper, a 
quarter of an ounce of ground allspice, half of 
a bay leaf, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, and 
one clove of garlic. Mix, and add to it a quart 
of claret ; boil it a moment, and add it to the 
mushroom sauce. Boil the whole fifteen min- 
utes ; strain, and add to it half a pint of soy (to 
be had at the grocer's) ; mix and botde. 

Chervil Vinegar. — Chervil is a delicious 
salad herb, invariably found in all salads prepared 



PRESERVED WATERMELON RIND. I 7 

by a French epicure. No man can be a true 
epicure who is unfamiliar with this excellent herb. 
Its leaves resemble parsley, but are more divided, 
and a few of them added to a breakfast salad 
give a delightful flavor. A few drops of vinegar 
flavored with it, or added to fish sauces or salads, 
is excellent, and well repays the little trouble 
taken in its preparation. Half fill a bottle with 
fresh or dry chervil leaves ; fill the bottle with 
good vinegar, and heat it gently by placing it in 
warm water, which bring to boiling point ; re- 
move from the fire ; cork when cool, and in two 
weeks it will be ready for use. 

Preserved Watermelon Rind. — Cut off* 
the outer rind and all of the red part from the 
inside ; cut the rind in strips or squares, and 
boil in a liberal quantity of sirup, allowing a 
pound and a quarter of sugar in a quart of water 
to the pound of rind. Make the sirup first, and 
clarify it with white of egg, skim, and add the 
rind ; simmer until quite transparent ; remove 
the rind, boil down the sirup one-third, then 
pour it over the rind. 

Preserved Strawberries. — Gather the 
strawberries in dry weather, when they are not 
over-ripe, and pick without bruising them. Put 
them in clean, dry, wide-mouthed bottles. Take 
equal weight of sugar, and add a pint of water 



1 8 PRESERVED PEACHES. 

to every three-quarters of a pound of powdered 
sugar ; boil until quite clear, and strain. When 
a little cool, pour it in the bottles, cork, and tie 
them with string. Wrap straw around them to 
prevent them from being broken. Put them in 
a large stewpan, and add cold water up to their 
necks. Allow the water to boil, then draw to 
one side, and let the bottles remain until the 
water becomes cold. Examine the corks, retie 
or wax them over, and they are ready for use or 
keeping. 

Preserved Peaches. — Fill a four-quart 
steamer with perfectly sound ripe peaches ; place 
the steamer on top of a pot of fast-boiling water 
for three minutes, then remove, and allow the 
fruit to become cold ; peel them carefully, and 
weigh them. Boil together three pounds of 
sugar and one pint of water ; remove all scum 
until quite clear. Soak a tablespoonful of Nel- 
son's gelatine in a gill of cold water ten minutes, 
drain off* the cold and add a pint of hot water. 
Add this to the sugar, and boil and skim until 
clear. If not clear enough, whisk into it the 
white and shell of one egg, and strain through a 
flannel bag; but this is hardly necessary for 
ordinary household sirup used in preserving. 
Make an incision in one side of each peach 
down to the stone. Add four pounds of the 



BRANDY PEACHES. 



19 



peaches to the sirup, and boil five minutes. 
Scald the jars carefully, so as not to crack them, 
then place them in a dripping-pan, and surround 
them with hot water ; fill the jars with the sirup, 
and put about nine peaches in each quart jar ; 
place the clean rubber band on each jar as fast 
as it is filled, and screw on the cover. Remove, 
and when they are cold test the covers to make 
them as tight as possible. (The gelatine is used 
only when a thick sirup is desirable.) 

Brandy Peaches. — Prepare the peaches 
and the sirup as in the foregoing recipe, using 
the same proportions, and before filling the jars 
add a pint of the best brandy, slightly warmed. 

' * Sweet - Pickle ' ' Peaches. — Mix the 
following spices together : a teaspoonful each of 
whole allspice and "chip" cinnamon, a table- 
spoonful of minced green ginger, half a tea- 
spoonful of cloves, and one nutmeg broken 
into small pieces; put the mixed spice in an 
earthen crock, and pour on it a quart of hot 
vinegar; cover, and let it infuse three days, 
stirring it daily ; allow it to setde, then strain. 
Put into a porcelain-lined kettle or pot five 
pounds of C sugar; add the spiced vinegar, 
and boil ; skim, and when no more scum rises 
it is ready. Do not procure your peaches until 
the pickle is ready. Scald five pounds of firm 



20 



CRAB APPLES PICKLED. 



but ripe peaches; wipe them well; boil the 
pickle, and pour it over the peaches ; boil five 
minutes, and let stand until cold ; remove the 
fruit, and boil the pickle once more ; add the 
peaches, and put into a large crock with a 
cover. Six days afterwards, boil up once, fill 
the warm jars, and make them air-tight [It 
sometimes happens that the most carefully-pre- 
pared pickles or preserves will prove a disap- 
•pointment; but if you will keep all kinds of 
home-made relishes in a room or cellar free 
from sudden changes of temperature, you will 
experience very little trouble with them. Should 
they appear cloudy, or develop a fungoid growth, 
drain off the sirup, and boil up once, or open the 
jars and place them in warm water which should 
be brought to the boiling point. All jars not 
filled to the top should be refilled. This is best 
done by using the contents of one of the jars, 
which is less troublesome than preparing a fresh 
pickle. Do not put too many peaches in a jar ; 
if quart jars are used, nine medium-sized peaches 
to each jar will be sufficient.] 

Crab Apples Pickled. — Select bright red 
crab apples with stems on, and boil them whole 
until tender. Care must be exercised not to 
cook them long enough to break their skins. 
Boil the sweet pickle, and pour it over the fruit ; 



TOMATOES IN SWEET PICKLE. 21 

repeat the process three days in succession, boil- 
ing the pickle each time ; fill the jars after the 
last boiling, and seal. 

Tomatoes in Sweet Pickle. — Select 
sound, ripe tomatoes of equal size, and blanch or 
scald them. When cool, skin them. Dry and 
powder the skins, which are excellent for color- 
ing soups, sauces, etc. Put the peeled tomatoes 
into a large steamer, and steam them a quarter 
of an hour; then put them in a sweet pickle, 
and boil ten minutes over a very moderate fire. 
Handle them carefully so as not to break them. 
Store them away in wide crocks. The pickle 
should cover the tomatoes when they are put 
away. 

Pears in Sweet Pickle. — When pears are 
cheap, families are warranted in putting them up 
for winter use. Pare the fruit as neatly as possi- 
ble, leaving the stems on. Boil them in hot 
water or steam them twenty minutes ; then boil 
them in the pickle twice upon successive days, 
only a moment each time. 

Cucumbers in Sweet Pickle. — Select 
large, full-grown cucumbers ; quarter them length- 
wise, remove the seeds, then cut each piece in 
two crosswise. Cover the pieces with wine 
vinegar, and let them stand two days. Then 
drain, and boil them a moment in a sweet pickle ; 



22 



FIG TOMATOES. 



take them out of the pickle, and put them in a 
crock. Let the pickle boil five minutes, and pour 
it over the cucumbers. Let them stand ten days, 
and boil the pickle once more. When cold pour 
it over the cucumbers. Let them stand two 
weeks before using. Watermelon rind may be 
treated in like manner. (Pumpkin, squash, and 
citron boiled ten minutes, then boiled in the 
sweet pickle, with the addition of a root or two 
more of green ginger, will be found excellent 
winter relishes.) 

Fig Tomatoes. — (This excellent recipe 
originally appeared in " Harper's Magazine," 
contributed some years ago by Mrs. Eliza Marsh. 
As I have tested it, and found it valuable, it is 
proper to give the lady due credit.) The fig 
tomatoes are both yellow and red, and are abun- 
dant at their season. " Pour boiling water over 
them to more easily remove their skins, after 
which weigh them, and place them in stone 
crocks in layers with an equal amount of sugar. 
Let them stand two days ; then pour off the 
sirup, and boil and skim it until no scum arises. 
Pour it over the tomatoes, and let them stand 
two days, then boil the sirup and skim again. 
After the third time they are fit to dry, if the 
weather is good ; if not, let them stand in the 
sirup until pleasant weather ; then place the to- 



TOMATO KETCHUP. 



23 



matoes on large platters or dishes, and set them 
in the sun to dry, which will take about a week. 
When thoroughly dry, pack them neatly in small 
wooden boxes with fine sugar between the layers, 
and they will keep for years." 

Fig tomatoes put up in sweet pickle are ex- 
cellent. The skins may be left on. 

Tomato Ketchup. — Cut into slices half a 
bushel of ripe tomatoes, put them in a large 
earthen crock, and between each layer put a 
small quantity of salt (enough to season them 
nicely) . Let them stand eight hours. Put into 
a large saucepan two ounces of mustard seed, 
one ounce of celery seed, a dozen whole cloves, 
the bruised cloves of six roots of garlic, two roots 
of green ginger shredded, an ounce of fresh 
capsicum peppers, a blade of mace, and two 
ounces of shredded horseradish root. Add the 
tomatoes and half a pound of cut sugar. Boil 
slowly three hours ; stir occasionally, care being 
used not to allow it to burn. Add a quart of 
new brandy. Strain while hot ; cover dose, and 
let stand two days ; bottle, cork, seal, and keep 
in a cool place. It will be noticed that no vine- 
gar is used. The object is to prevent fermenta- 
tion, which invariably appears when it is used. 
Strain the ketchup as free from seeds as possi- 
ble, as they are objectionable. 



24 



RAW OYSTERS. 



This ketchup is expensive ; but it is wonder- 
fully good, and very little of it produces re- 
markable results on the palate of an appreciative 
guest. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH. 

Raw Oysters. — It is in order to advise 
housewives how they should order their o)rsters 
opened ; for, while there may not appear to be 
any danger in so innocent-looking a thing as an 
oyster, there is nevertheless great danger of its 
killing us if by chance we should swallow a 
ragged piece of oyster shell when eating oysters. 
There is just one way to prevent this danger, 
and that is by refusing all oysters that have been 
opened by the process known as "smashing." 
This operation spoils the appearance of the 
oyster and its shell ; and small particles of the 
shell are hammered into the body of the oyster, 
which, when introduced into the stomach, be- 
come a terror as deadly as the mistakes of drug- 
gists. Insist on it that your oysters are opened 
by the stabbing process, and you avert this dan- 
ger. Children should not be allowed to eat 
oysters — raw or cooked — unless they have 
been thoroughly and carefully examined for 



OYSTERS EN BROCHETTE. 



25 



minute particles of shells. I am very serious 
about this oyster-opening business ; for, having 
lost a very dear friend through his having care- 
lessly swallowed a piece of oyster shell which 
clung to the oyster, I feel that I cannot be too 
emphatic on this subject. 

Oysters en Brochette. — Select one dozen 
choice oysters, plunge them into hot water a 
second to make them firm (this process is called 
blanching), then drain, and dip them into melted 
butter ; arrange them on skewers with alternate 
layers of neatly -sliced bacon; broil over a 
moderate fire. When done add maitre-d'hotel 
butter to them, and serve on the skewers. 

Fried Oysters. — Beat up the yolks of four 
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and 
season them with a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of cayenne pepper; beat up thor- 
oughly. Dry twelve fat oysters on a napkin ; 
dip them in the egg batter, then in cracker dust ; 
shake off the loose cracker dust, dip them again 
in the egg batter, and lastly roll them in fine 
bread crumbs. Fry in very hot fat, using fat 
enough to cover them. The oil gives them a 
nice flavor. 

Curry of Oysters. — Put an ounce of 
butter in a pan, add to it a teaspoon of curry 
powder, and water enough to prevent burning. 



26 DEVILED OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

■\ 

Put fifteen oysters in just water enough to covet 
them, simmer three minutes, and drain ; thicken 
the broth with a teaspoonful of flour, salt to 
taste, stir this into the curry ; add the oysters, 
simmer a moment, and serve with boiled rice. 

Deviled Oysters on Toast. — Mix to- 
gether a heaping saltspoonful of mustard flour, 
half a saltspoonful each of white pepper and 
salt, and the yolk of one egg. Dip six oysters 
in the paste, then in fine crumbs, and broil over 
a moderate fire. When done, arrange on toast, 
and squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon. 

Pickled Oysters. — A few pickled oysters 
may be served instead of clams during warm 
weather. Scald a quart of oysters a moment, 
drain, and put them in jars. To a pint of oyster 
liquor, add half a pint of hot water and half a 
pint of hot vinegar ; pour over the oysters ; add 
three cloves, four whole peppers, a small bit of 
mace, and a slice of lemon, to each jar. This 
will be sufiicient for two ordinary fruit jars. 

Soft Clams in Chafing Dish. — Select a 
dozen large Guilford clams, wash them thor- 
oughly, and plunge them into boiling water for 
a moment. Drain and open them, and use the 
round plump part only. Put in a chafing dish 
a pat of butter, and when quite hot add a dash 
of flour, and cayenne to suit the taste ; add the 



STEWED LHTLE-NECK CLAMS. 27 

clams, and, when they are slightly cooked, add 
a gill of light sherry. Cover the dish, and allow 
it to simmer five minutes. Have ready three 
slices of toast, put four clams upon each slice, 
add a little of the hot sherry, and serve. 

Stewed Little-Neck Clams. — Get two 
dozen freshly opened, very small clams. Boil a 
pint of milk, a dash of white pepper, and a small 
pat of butter. Now add the clams. Let them 
come to a boil, and serve. Longer boiling 
will make the clams almost indigestible. 

Soft Clams. — Select a dozen soft-shell 
clams ; wash them well ; remove the shells ; 
trim off the tough neck ; place each clam on a 
half shell, and add to each half a teaspoonful of 
finely-chopped bacon, a little cayenne, a very 
small bit of onion, and a pat of butter rolled in 
flour ; strew over the top a little grated Parmesan 
cheese, and bake to a delicate brown. Cracker 
crumbs may be used instead of the cheese if 
preferred. 

Snapping Turtle. — Philadelphia is the 
home of this most highly-esteemed dish. Select 
a turde weighing about ten pounds, allow it to 
swim in a tub of clean water half a day. Half 
fill a wash boiler with water ; when it boils, drop 
the snapper into it. (This is the quickest and 
best mode of killing : cutting his head off is apt 



28 



SHRIMP PASTE. 



to be attended with difficulties when attempted 
by amateurs.) Boil twenty- five minutes, then 
pkmge in cold water to cool. Remove the nails, 
scales, and outer skin, turn it over, and separate 
and remove the breast or lower shell. Remove 
the entrails carefully, saving the liver only ; cut 
off the gall bag without breaking it ; divide the 
remainder of the flesh in neat pieces, put them 
in a pot, and add a gallon of water. Simmer 
four hours. Add salt to taste, a teaspoonful of 
whole peppercorns, a pinch of nutmeg, the 
grated rind of a lemon, and a heaping table- 
spoonful of mixed dry herbs. 

Five minutes before serving, add a pint of 
sherry, a little cayenne, and three hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine ; cut a lemon in slices, and 
add them, and serve. Should the turtle contain 
eggs, they may be served separately. 

Shrimp Paste. — You can make an excel- 
lent shrimp paste as follows : Boil the shrimps 
half an hour ; when cool, shell them ; put the 
shells in a mortar, and pound them to a paste ; 
add two ounces of butter to the pound of shells, 
and season with salt and cayenne ; add a pint of 
hot water, and simmer an hour ; strain. Now put 
the edible or tail part in the mortar, and pound it 
to a paste, moisten with the liquid from the shells, 
and season liberally with salt and cayenne. Put 



FINNAN HADDIE WITH POACHED EGGS. 29 

it in a double saucepan, surrounded by water, 
and heat it through. Fill the jars three-fourths 
full of the mixture. Pour over it enough melted 
butter to fill the jar, and keep in a cool place. 
When wanted, remove the butter. This paste 
will be found excellent for sandwiches, sauces, 
etc., but not of the same color as the shrimp 
paste of the shops, which is colored with chemi- 
cals. 

Finnan Haddie with Poached Eggs. — 

Finnan haddies are smoked haddock. Most of 
the fish smoked in this vicinity are invariably 
kept too long before being cured, and are, there- 
fore, quite inferior to the Scotch and Canadian 
prepared fish. Cut the fish into pieces about 
three inches square. Remove the skin, and par- 
boil fifteen minutes. Drain quite dry in a towel, 
and brush over the fish a little butter ; broil a 
moment, and add melted butter and a little 
lemon juice ; on top of each piece of fish place 
a poached egg. The fish may be boiled until 
done, and served in this manner, instead of 
broiling afterwards. 

Spiced Salmon. — Cut from a medium- 
sized salmon six slices even, about an inch and 
a half in thickness. Put a slice in an earthen 
crock, one wide enough to admit of the salmon 
being removed from it, when cooked, without 



30 BROILED YARMOUIH ULOATERS. 

breaking the slices. Season it nicely with a part 
of a blade of mace, a bit of bay leaf, one clove 
of garlic, six whole peppercorns, four cloves, a 
little salt, and a thin slice of lemon. Add an- 
other slice of salmon, and season in like manner, 
and repeat the process until all the slices are 
used. Add equal parts of vinegar and water 
to cover the fish; set the crock (covered) in 
a saucepan of water, simmer three hours, and 
allow it to cool before uncovering. The best 
brand of canned salmon is excellent served in 
this manner, but requires not more than fifteen 
minutes boiling to make it perfect. 

Broiled Yarmouth Bloaters. — Bloat- 
herrings, or bloaters, are large herrings ismoked 
and cured. They are called Yarmouth from 
Yarmouth, Eng., where they were supposed to 
be first cured. They are a very appetizing 
breakfast dish. Split them down the back, re- 
move the bone and head, and broil three min- 
utes. Pour over it a little lemon juice mixed 
with hot butter. 

How to eat Prepared and Preserved 
Fish. — Many object to eating fish of any kind, 
owing to the after effects. This unpleasantness 
is caused by flooding the food with liquids while 
eating. Drink your coffee and other liquids firsts 
and afterward cat the salmon. Above all, 



POTTED FISH. 3 1 

masticate properly, and you will have no further 
trouble. 

Potted Fish. — The lunch table is the place 
to introduce home-made potted and pickled fish 
of all kinds ; and when good fish are plentiful 
and cheap, a jar of them should be found in 
every household. 

Clean the fish thoroughly, remove the head, 
tail, and skin ; split the fish in two lengthwise, 
then cut each half into neat pieces of equal size. 
Put into an old-fashioned stone jar a layer of 
sliced onion, add a layer of the raw fish, strew 
over it a liberal quantity of whole mixed spice 
and salt ; add another layer of fish, and season 
as before, and continue this process until all the 
fish is used. Cover the fish with good vinegar ; 
make the jar air-tight, and put it in a pan of 
water, simmer half a day, and do not remove 
cover until it is cool. 

When serving, arrange neatly on the dish, and 
garnish with hard-boiled eggs quartered length- 
wise, and lemon similarly cut. 

Potted Eels. — This is the only way in 
which eels are appreciated by some. They 
seem to lose their peculiar oily flavor, and are 
very acceptable at lunch. 

Prepare them as in the foregoing recipe, and 
add a few bay leaves to the seasoning ingredients, 



32 



I'RIED EELS. 



Fried Eels. — Cut the cleaned eels into 
three-inch pieces, and strew over them a quan- 
tity of salt ; let stand an hour, rinse off the salt, 
dip them in beaten egg, then roll in crumbs, and 
fry in boiUng fat. 

Codfish Balls. — A well-made codfish ball 
is a delicious dish, but recently it has fallen into 
disrepute for one reason. 

Some few years ago an inventive Yankee con- 
ceived the idea of putting up in small boxes 
what he called " boneless codfish ; " and since 
then a perfect codfish ball is a very rare article, 
for the simple reason that very little of the true 
codfish is used. 

Species of codfish, such as hake, haddock, 
pollock, and fifty other varieties, are so put up 
whenever cheap ; but the true codfish is seldom 
if ever used. When wanted, purchase the old- 
fashioned salted, dried fish, and pick it to pieces 
as fine as possible, or rub it to fine shreds in a 
mortar. Soak it six hours ; drain, and simmer 
half to three-quarters of an hour. Wash, peel, 
quarter, and boil twice the quantity of potatoes 
that you have of fish; mix fish and potatoes 
together while warm, and beat them as light as 
possible. To a pound of fish add three ounces 
of butter, two beaten eggs, and cayenne or white 
pepper to taste. When well incorporated shape 



SHAD ROE EN BROCHETTE. 



33 



into small, very neat cakes not over half an inch 
thick or two inches and a half in width, and fry 
in boiling fat. 

Shad Roe en Brochette. — Parboil the 
roes slightly; cut them into inch pieces, and 
dredge them with flour. Arrange the pieces 
alternately on skewers with neat thin pieces of 
bacon, and broil a delicate brown on all four 
sides ; serve with sauce maitre d'h6tel. 



HASH. 

A Kind Word for it. — The paragraph 
writer who has not penned a slur at the homely 
fare known as hash is a rara avis, and the poet 
whose first attempt at doggerel was not a denun- 
ciation of boarding-house hash is yet to be 
found. Slangy men of the world call a hotel 
or restaurant a "hashery," signifying that the 
resort is a place to avoid, it being cheap and not 
nice. Yet, with all the censure heaped upon it 
by an unappreciative public, hash is, from a hy- 
gienic standpoint, the very best mode of serving 
food. This statement may seem incredible, but 
when we consider it a moment we realize the 
truthfulness of it. Statistics are not wanting to 
prove that minced food digests almost as soon 



34 



CORNED-BEEF HASH. 



without being chewed at all as if it had been 
thoroughly masticated. People who habitually 
" bolt " their food suffer no inconvenience from 
the practice when their food is cut very fine. 
Most of us eat too rapidly, either from forgetful- 
ness, bad teeth, or in case of hurry ; and the re- 
sult is derangement of the stomach which in 
time ends in an almost incurable case of dys- 
pepsia. Hash, then, is the proper food to order 
in such cases. It need not necessarily be the 
well-known compound so familiar to all ; but 
served in the form of croquettes, forcemeats, 
patties, cromisquis, souffles, etc., it is always ac- 
ceptable, and may be offered to the most fastidi- 
ous ; for while those various names sound more 
poetical, they all mean the same thing, simply — 
hash. 

Corned-Beef Hash. — This homely Amer- 
ican dish, when properly prepared, is very ac- 
ceptable. The brisket part of the beef is the 
best for this purpose. The rump or very lean 
meat does not make good hash. Chop up the 
meat very fine the night before it is wanted ; add 
to it an equal quantity of warm boiled potatoes, 
moisten them a little with clear soup strongly 
impregnated with onion flavor. Mix meat and 
potatoes together, and place in ice box until 
wanted. The next morning it should be warmed 



MINCED LAMB ON TOAST. 



35 



in a frying pan. A little onion may be added if 
not objected to. Moisten the hash with hot 
water or clear soup, and, when quite hot, serve. 
Some like the hash browned; this is accom- 
plished by using a small quantity of butter, and 
frying the hash a delicate brown. The pan 
should be raised to an angle of thirty degrees, 
and the hash shaped like an omelet, then turned 
deftly out on a hot dish. 

Minced Lamb on Toast. — The cold lamb 
left from the preceding day is quite accept- 
able when served in this manner. All fat should 
be removed, and the meat chopped quite fine, 
warmed in the pan, moistened with a little stock 
or hot water, and seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Then arrange on slices of buttered toast. 
Poached eggs are appreciated by many with this 
dish. Arrange each egg neatly on top of the 
meat without breaking it. 

Beef Hash with Poached Egg. — Boiled 
fresh beef, left from the preceding day, and made 
into a hash with one-half meat, one-quarter each 
of potato and apple, and a little minced celery, 
nicely cooked and seasoned, and served on toast 
with a poached egg, is a very good dish. 

Minced Ham with Poached Egg. — 
Mince half a pound of cold boiled ham ; put an 
ounce of butter in a frying pan ; when melted 



36 



FRIZZLED BEEF WITH EGG. 



add the ham and a very little hot water and a 
pinch of cayenne. When quite hot arrange it 
neatly on slices of toast, put a poached egg on 
top of each, and serve. Minced ham prci)ared 
for evening parties and not all used may be 
served in this manner. 

Frizzled Beef with Egg. — Cut half a 
pound of smoked or jerked beef into the thin- 
nest of pieces or shavings ; cover with boiling 
water for five minutes, and drain. Melt an 
ounce of sweet butter in the frying pan, and 
add the wafers of beef. When they begin to 
frizzle or turn up, break over them three eggs ; 
stir until the eggs are cooked ; add a little white 
pepper, and serve on slices of buttered toast. 



MACARONI. 

An Italian invention, and the most popular 
form in which wheat flour is sent to table, bread 
excepted. 

It is an excellent dish to serve at luncheon or 
other impromptu meals ; and, while the dish 
called " au gratin " is known to nearly all cooks, 
there are many other ways of preparing this 
very excellent food product. 



MACARONI WITH KOAST MEATS. 37 



Macaroni with Roast Meats. — A most 
excellent dish is made as follows. Break into 
small inch pieces enough macaroni to make a 
pint; cover with boiling water slightly salted, 
and boil fifteen minutes ; drain. Cut into small 
pieces one small onion, put it in a pan with 
a little oil or lard, simmer until brown, and 
add half a pint of hot water or soup, then add 
half a pound of cooked meat of any kind, and 
also add the macaroni, salt and pepper to taste ; 
now add a teaspoonful of flour, cover, and let 
the dish simmer fifteen minutes. 

This is an excellent way of disposing of those 
odds and ends which, while they are not large 
enough to be served a second time, are never- 
theless too good to be thrown away. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. — Boil 
the macaroni fifteen minutes ; then drain, put it 
on a flat dish, and pour round it a tomato sauce ; 
strew over the dish a quantity of grated cheese. 
The tomato sauce is prepared as follows : Open 
a can of tomatoes that contains but little liquid ; 
simmer them gently three-quarters of an hour ; 
season with salt, cayenne, a clove of garlic 
bruised, and very little mace. Press them 
through a fine sieve ; put the pulp in a clean, 
hot stewpan with a little butter, stir to prevent 
burning, and when quite thick serve. A most 



38 



MACAROxNI PIE. 



excellent tomato sauce is made of a brilliant 
red tomato ketchup. Take half a pint of it, 
heat it gently, add a gill of rich soup stock and 
a teaspoonful of flour dissolved in a little cold 
water, dimmer until it thickens, and serve. Or- 
dinary ketchups do not have the proper color, 
and are liable to sour when heated. 

Macaroni Pie. — Put into a round baking 
tin two slices of bacon, add to it a layer of mac- 
aroni; next add a layer of raw meat cut into 
inch pieces ; season with salt and pepper ; add 
another layer of macaroni, and so on until the 
dish is nearly full. Then add sufficient quantity 
of gravy, soup, or hot water, to have the dish 
quite moist when done. Cover the dish with 
an ordinary piecrust, and bake brown. 

A very nice pie is made by adding a layer or 
two of tomatoes, and, if not objected to, a little 
onion may be added for its flavor. 

Fish and shell fish are added to macaroni 
when the pie is made for fast- day meals. 

Spaghetti. — (Spaghetti is a variety of mac- 
aroni, but is much smaller in diameter, and is 
served unbroken.) Plunge the ends in fast- 
boiling water, which should be slightly salted ; 
when soft, coil them in the water, without break- 
ing, and boil for fifteen minutes ; drain in a col- 
ander, and pour cold water on it. Put it on a 



CURRY OF BAKED FISH. 



39 



hot dish, pour a rich hot tomato sauce over it, 
and keep on the back of the range until it is 
heated through, or strew over it a quantity of 
grated cheese. 



LUNCHEON CURRIES. 

Curries are very acceptable at luncheon, be- 
sides being an excellent mode of disposing of 
small odds and ends of joints which accumulate 
in the ice box. A few recipes are here given, 
but a more extended list may be found in " The 
Book of Entries " by the same author. 

Curries are made much stronger in pungency 
in India, the home of curries, than as prepared 
by our recipes, owing to climate. People in the 
North add a little flour to the dish for two rea- 
sons : one is to tone down the pungency of 
the curry powder, and the other is to slightly 
thicken the sauce. 

Curry of Baked Fish. — It frequently 
happens that part of a baked fish is left from a 
preceding dinner, and we know of no more ac- 
ceptable mode of serving it again than as a 
curry. 

Divide the fish into flakes. Put into a frying 
pan half a teaspoonful of lard, and when hot 



40 CURRY OF COLD ROAST BEEF. 

add a tablespoonful of minced onion. Fry 
quite brown, add a gill of hot water or broth, 
salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of curry powder. 
If the onions are objected to (but we don't see 
why they should be), strain the sauce, then add 
half a teaspoonful of wet flour to tone down the 
pungency of the curry. Now add fish enough 
to absorb the curry, and place the dish on back 
of range for fifteen minutes. 

Curry of Cold Roast Beef. — A most 
enjoyable dish is made of cold roast beef. Cut 
the beef into thin slices, then divide each slice 
into neat, even pieces. 

Brown a minced onion in the pan with a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, add a saltspoonful of 
salt and half a pint of hot water ; thicken with 
a teaspoonful of wet flour free from lumps ; now 
add the meat, squeeze over it the juice of an 
orange, and you have a delicious dish. 

When there is too small a quantity of meat, 
an equal quantity of lima beans, string beans, 
cut- up potatoes, or almost any other vegetable, 
may be added. 

When fresh raw meat is used as a curry, pro- 
ceed as follows : — 

Fresh Beef Curry. — The best piece of 
meat for this dish is the lean part of the flank, 
called flanH steak, which., being cross-grained, 



CURRY OF BRISKET OF LAMB. 4T 

allows the curry to thoroughly assimilate with 
every particle of the meat. Cut up one pound 
of the meat into neat square pieces. Put into 
a frying pan one ounce of oil or butter, and fry in 
it half of a minced onion, stirred until they 
begin to brown, add the beef, and stir to prevent 
burning for about twenty minutes; now add a 
teaspoon of curry and half a pint of rich gravy 
(if possible) or hot water ; simmer ; squeeze out 
the juice of one orange, sweeten it a little, add 
it to the dish, add a heaping teaspoon ful of apple 
sauce, stir, and simmer nearly an hour. Arrange 
a border of rice on a flat side dish, pour the 
contents of the saucepan in the centre, and 
serve. To those who are very fond of curry, a 
teaspoonful of the powder will not be enough ; 
in which case the powder should be placed on 
the table. The flour is here omitted. 

Curry of Brisket of Lamb. — Cut up 
two pounds of lamb into neat pieces, brown 
them nicely in a frying pan with butter seasoned 
with salt and half a teaspoonful of chopped green 
mint ; add a wineglassful of Rhine wine and two 
teaspoonfuls of curry powder, simmer slowly 
three-quarters of an hour ; prei)are a border of 
rice, put the lamb in the centre ; squeeze the 
juice of an orange in a cup, add a little sugar to 
it, sprinkle it over the rice, and serve. 



42 



CURRY OF FROGS* LEGS. 



Curry of Frogs' Legs. — This is an excel- 
lent dish. Wash one pound of frogs' legs in 
cold water ; brown one-fourth of an onion in oil 
or butter j add a teaspoonful of curry and a pint 
of hot water ; pour this in a saucepan, and add 
the frogs ; simmer an hour and a half, and drain. 
Mix a teaspoonful each of rice flour and curry 
to a paste, with the broth ; add salt to taste, and 
half a pint of milk. Place on the range, and 
when hot add the frogs. Blanch two dozen 
sweet almonds ; rub off the skins, split them, 
and toss them about in hot butter ; season with 
pepper and salt ; when done squeeze a little 
lemon juice over them, and send to table on 
separate dish with the curry. 

Curry of Prawns. — Prawns are at their 
best served as a curry. Boil two quarts of live 
prawns thirty minutes, drain when slightly cooled, 
break away the shells, and set them aside. Put 
two ounces of butter in a frying pan ; when very 
hot add a clove of garlic and one sliced apple ; 
brown slightly, remove the garlic, and add a 
dessertspoonful of curry powder mixed with a 
gill of water ; stir, and add half a pint of soup- 
stock and half a teaspoonful of flour ; now add 
the prawns, and the juice of half a lemon in 
which a lump of sugar has l)een dissolved. 
Pour out on a hot dish, and send to table with 
rice croquettes. 



CURRY OF PRAWNS. 



43 



Prawns are plentiful the last of March and 
the first of April, and are at their best at that 
time. Of the numerous varieties of prawns, the 
species with which we are most familiar, and 
which are often found associated together, are 
the Pencsus setiferus and PencBus brasiliensis ; 
and, according to Professor Lewis R. Gibbes, 
these species may be distinguished by the fol- 
lowing characters : — 

The common shrimp (P. setiferus) has a 
groove on each side of the large spine that 
springs from the fore and upper part of the 
shell or carapax ; these run backward, and ter- 
minate about the middle of the length of the 
shell. In the same tray in the market will 
frequently be found other individuals, far less 
numerous, in which these grooves- run the whole 
length of the shell, terminating just in front of 
the hinder edge or border of the shell, at the 
first joint. This form I have referred to as the 
P. brasiliensis of Latreille. Full-grown shrimps 
(/I setiferus) measure six or more inches in 
length from the tip of the large anterior spine 
to the tip of the tail spine, and three-fourths 
of an inch deep, and broad in the front or 
body part. The large specimens of both species 
are known in the markets as "prawns," or 
"sprawns," and the half-grown individuals are 



44 



CHICKEN-LIVER OMELET. 



distinguished as "shrimps." Prawns are in sea- 
son from the latter part of Febniary or the first 
of March, and remain in season two or three 
months. 

Shrimps are in season from June until autumn. 
These and other varieties of prawns and shrimps 
inhabit salt or brackish water, and sometimes 
ascend streams to where the water is nearly or 
quite fresh for the purpose of spaAvning. 

The foregoing must not be confused with the 
crayfish or crawfish, which are found in most 
of the fresh-water streams of the United States, 
and are in season from early spring until frost 
sets in. 

Most of the prawns sent to market are cooked 
before shipment, and need only warming up. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 

Chicken-Liver Omelet. — As a rule, the 
chickens used in the household are not enough 
to make entries of their livers or other tidbits, 
so it is advisable to use them in omelets or 
garnishments to other dishes. Remove the gall 
pouch carefully, without breaking, from four 
livers ; wash the livers in cold water, then par- 
boil slightly, and (juarter them if too large. Put 



KIDNEY OMELET. 



45 



them in a fr5dng pan with enough butter to pre- 
vent burning, and toss them about until easily 
penetrated with a fork ; add a teaspoonful of 
onion vinegar, and a gill of dark rich gravy or 
sauce Espagnole ; season with salt and a dash 
of cayenne, a tablespoonful of sherry, and, if 
convenient, add a tablespoonful of chopped 
mushrooms ; place on back of range while the 
omelet is preparing, and before finishing the fold 
add the prepared livers. Wlien nicely made, 
this is a most excellent dish. 

Kidney Omelet. — Wash two mutton kid- 
neys, remove the sinews adhering to them, cut 
them in slices, cover with water slightly salted, 
and allow them to stand six hours ; drain, and 
parboil a few moments. Put into a frying pan 
a pat of butter ; when hot add the kidneys ; toss 
them about to cook them evenly ; add a gill of 
gravy, a tablespoonful of sherry, salt, pepper, 
and a little lemon or orange juice. Set the pan 
on the back of the range while you prepare the 
omelet as follows : Break three eggs, and ex- 
amine them before beating them together. Add 
a teaspoonful of milk, and beat the eggs up to 
the last moment before pouring them in the 
pan. As soon as the omelet sets, remove the 
pan from the hottest part of the fire ; strike 
the handle of the pan with the left hand to pre- 



46 OMELET WITH SPANISH PEPPER. 

vent the omelet from sticking to the pan, or slip 
a knife under it, which will accomplish the same 
result. When the centre of the omelet is quite 
firm, slant the pan, and prepare for folding the 
omelet, which is easily done if a little care is 
exercised. Before folding, add the kidneys, and 
put the sauce around the omelet. 

Omelet with Spanish Pepper. — The 
sweet Spanish pepper, in any form, is a most 
excellent addition to our list of vegetables, and 
is most acceptable when served in an omelet. 
Fry a small spring onion in a little butter, cut 
up two peppers, add them to the pan, and sim- 
mer slowly twenty minutes ; add a little water 
or gravy to prevent burning. Add a little salt, 
and a pinch of cayenne, for the i^epper is not 
hot notwithstanding its hot name. When re- 
duced to a pulp, put it inside of an omelet just 
before folding it. A little tomato sauce may be 
served with it if desired. 

Pickled - Oyster Omelet. — Rinse six 
spiced or pickled oysters in cold water. Divide 
an ounce of butter into little balls, and roll 
them in flour; put them in a saucepan, heat 
gradually, and whisk to a cream ; add a gill of 
hot water, salt and pepper. Cut the oysters in 
two, and add to the butter. Prepare an omelet 
in the usual manner; before folding, add the 
oysters, turn out on a hot dish, and serve. 



CRAYFISH OMELET. 



47 



Crayfish Omelet. — Boil one quart of 
live crayfish in well-salted water for twenty-five 
minutes ; drain and cool. Remove the shells, 
split the meat from each tail in two pieces length- 
wise, and remove the thread-like intestine found 
therein. Melt two ounces of butter, whip it to 
a cream while it is slowly melting. Dust in a 
saltspoonful of flour, a pinch of cayenne, a dash 
of nutmeg, and a gill of Rhine wine. Set it on 
the back of the range, add the crayfish tails, and 
prepare the omelet ; just before folding, add the 
crayfish, and turn the omelet on a hot dish. 

Stuffed Eggs. — Work four ounces of boiled 
or potted ham to a smooth paste ; add a pinch 
of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of anchovy paste. 
Hard boil six eggs ; when cold remove the shells, 
cut a thin slice off the large end of each ; take 
out the yolks, and put them in a mortar with a 
third of their bulk of table butter, a little salt, 
and nutmeg ; add the ham and very little hot 
soup or water ; heat it gently ; press the paste 
into the empty whites ; arrange neatly on a dish, 
small end upwards ; garnish liberally to hide the 
lower end, and serve. 

Eggs with Brown Butter. — - Break four 
eggs separated into a cup; brown two ounces 
of butter in a frying pan ; add the eggs gently 
to the butter, and with a spoon pour the butter 



48 



OYSTER-CRAB OMELET. 



over them ; toast four slices of bread, placing 
them in the oven instead of before the fire ; 
sprinkle warm vinegar over the toast ; add the 
eggs to the toast ; on top of each sprinkle a 
little salt and nutmeg, and serve. 

Oyster-Crab Omelet. — This is a most 
tempting dish. Roll an ounce of butter into 
little balls, dredge these with flour, put them in 
a pan, and when they begin to melt whisk them 
— do not let it brown ; add a gill of hot water, 
and simmer until thick ; now add half a pint of 
oyster crabs, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Beat 
up four eggs thoroughly, and make them into an 
omelet ; just before folding add the crabs, and 
serve. 



PATTIES. 

Dainty Luncheon Patties. — Mince a 
pound of cold roast chicken or turkey, and 
warm it in a pan. Mince half a pound of fresh 
mushrooms, simmer them in a gill of good strong 
gravy, and mix them with the chicken. Boil 
a pint of milk, and thicken it with a heaping 
tablespoonful of wet flour. Add the milk to the 
meat; season with salt and pepper, and place 
on back of range to become thoroughly incor- 



BEEF PATriES. 



49 



porated ; then add the juice of a lemon. Fill 
dainty patty shells with the mixture, and serve. 

Prepare the patty shells as follows : One pint 
of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, and 
half a teaspoonful of salt ; sift all together. 
Wash the salt from half a pound of good butter 
in ice-water; work half the butter by degrees 
into the prepared flour, and mix with a little 
more than a gill of ice-water, or enough to make 
a stiff" dough ; roll out the paste, and strew over 
it a part of the remaining butter divided into 
little pieces, and dredged with flour ; roll up the 
dough like a jelly roll, and roll it out again with 
the rolling pin ; repeat this latter process once 
more, and when rolled out thin, add the remain- 
ing butter. The paste being ready, now roll it 
out half an inch in thickness, cut it into rounds 
with a cake cutter two inches in diameter ; press a 
small cutter, an inch in diameter, on each round, 
one-fourth of an inch deep. Place them on a 
buttered tin or paper, and bake a delicious 
brown; when done remove the centre circle 
carefully, and set it aside to be used as a cover. 
Remove the soft insides without breaking the 
walls of the shell. 

Beef Patties. — Cut into pieces, as for 
Hamburg steak, one pound of steak free from 
fat and sinews. Fry brown a tablespoonful of 



50 BROILED SWEET POTATOES. 

chopped onion ; add a pint of gravy or broth ; 
simmer a moment, and remove the onion by 
straining ; return the broth to the pan, and add 
the meat. Allow it to cook a very little under-, 
instead of over-done. A can of French pease 
and a few mushrooms added, will improve the 
dish wonderfully. Add salt and pepper, and, if 
too moist, add a little flour. Prepare the shells 
as in the foregoing recipe ; fill them, and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 

Broiled Sweet Potatoes. — Raw and 

boiled potatoes are served in this manner. Cut 
the raw potatoes in thin slices ; brush melted 
liutter over them and also over the wire broiler, 
to prevent their sticking to it ; broil them a dark 
brown. Boiled sweet potatoes need to be but 
slightly broiled, just enough to warm through 
and at the same time to show the marks of the 
broiler. 

Sweet - Potato Souffle. — Boil four me- 
dium-sized sweet potatoes. When done, peel 
and mash them. Beat up the yolks and whites 
of two eggs separately ; add a gill of cream to 
the yolks ; beat it into the potato (seasoned with 
salt and pepper), and place it in the oven. 



FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 51 

Whisk the whites to a foam. Remove the pan 
from the oven, add the foam, replace it in the 
oven, and when delicately browned it is done. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes are usually pre- 
pared from cold boiled potatoes. They may be 
either tossed about in very little fat, or dropped 
into a large quantity of fat and fried like dough- 
nuts. Mashed and whipped up with milk, but- 
ter, and one or two eggs, then rolled into little 
cones or balls and fried, they are much better. 

Green Corn, Maryland style. — Take 
six ears of boiled green com when cool enough 
to handle, and cut off the kernels. Cut one- 
quarter of a pound of fat bacon in little strips, 
then in very small dice, and fry them crisp. 
Take them out of the fat, and add the corn to 
the hot fat, toss it about a few minutes, add salt 
and cayenne, and turn out on a hot dish, strew 
the bits of bacon over the top, and serve. 

Green - Corn Fritters. — Cut through the 
centre of each row of kernels, then press out 
the centre pulp with the back of the knife. 
Beat two eggs thoroughly, and add to them a 
heaping saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, 
one pint of corn pulp, and flour enough to make 
a moderately stiff batter. Drop the batter in 
smoking-hot fat by tablespoonfuls, and brown 
them evenly. 



52 ELDER- FLOWER FRITTERS. 

Elder-Flower Fritters. — (The cider bush 
is found growing in waste and neglected places, 
and may be recognized by its large bunches of 
minute flowers arranged in umbellate and race- 
mose cymes, the corolla or crown being wheel- 
shaped and fine-cleft.) Gather the flowers when 
fully developed, and let them stand in cold water, 
slighdy salted, for an hour; take them out of 
the water, and pick off the flowers. Sprinkle 
over them a tablespoonful of brandy to each pint 
of flowers. Beat the yolks of three eggs ; add 
a saltspoonful of salt, a heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar, two ounces of wheat flour, and a pint 
of elder flowers, and stir into the mixture a 
tablespoonful of olive oil. Drop spoonfuls of 
the batter in smoking-hot fat, and serve with 
brandy sauce. 

Oyster -Plant Croquettes. — To three 
quarts of cold water add a gill of vinegar, scrape 
and throw into the water the oyster plant as fast 
as cleaned. Drain and plunge them into boiling 
water slightly salted ; boil fifty minutes, drain, 
and mash them thoroughly ; season with salt, 
pepper, and butter, and bind together with yolks 
of eggs; roll them in cork shapes, dip in egg 
batter and then in crumbs, and fry in a liberal 
quantity of hot fat. Throwing the roots in water 
containing vinegar prevents them from turning 
black after they are scrape^d. 



EGG PLANT FRIED. 



S3 



Egg Plant Fried. — Cut the vegetable 
into slices one-quarter of an inch thick without 
removing the skin. Sprinkle salt over each slice, 
and return the slices to their original shape ; 
press gently to extract the juice, then drain and 
peel; dip them in egg, roll them in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat. 



SWEETBREADS. 

Lamb Sweetbreads, Tomato Sauce. — 

Lamb sweetbreads are not always procurable, 
but a stroll through the markets occasionally 
reveals a small lot of them, which can invaria- 
bly be had at a low price, owing to their ex- 
cellence being recognized by but few buyers. 
Wash them well in salted water, and parboil 
fifteen minutes; when cool, trim neatly, and 
put them in a pan with just butter enough to 
prevent their burning; toss them about until 
a delicate color; season with salt and pepper, 
and serve surrounded with tomato sauce. 

Sweetbreads Broiled. — Parboil them, and 
remove all sinews. Pour over them cold water, 
and drain in a napkin. Cut them in long, not 
too thin, slices; brush over them a little fine 
olive oil, and broil a delicate brown. Serve 



54 



SWEEITREADS STEWED. 



with them a butter sauce, or green pease, string 
beans, or a puree of spinach or sorrel. 

Sweetbreads Stewed. — Parboil a pair 
of large sweetbreads, then trim off the ragged 
parts and sinews, and cut them into neat pieces. 
Put them into a saucepan with just water enough 
to cover them ; add a little salt, two whole 
peppers, two whole cloves, and a small piece of 
bay leaf. Simmer three-quarters of an hour. 
Remove the sweetbreads and the seasoning. 
Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a gill of 
cream ; while beating, add the broth in spoon- 
fuls, and also add a teaspoonful of flour which 
has been mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk or cream; beat all together thoroughly, 
and place on back of range until it thickens, 
but do not let it boil. Season the sweetbreads 
with salt and a dash of cayenne, add them to 
the sauce, and serve when quite hot. 

Sweetbreads with Scrambled Eggs. — 
Boil a pair of sweetbreads three-quarters of an 
hour ; drain and cool them. Remove all skin and 
sine^vs, and cut the sweetbreads into neat square 
pieces. Put them in a frying pan with a little 
olive oil, and when hot break over them three 
eggs ; mix the eggs well with the sweetbreads. 
Have ready a few slices of neatly-trimmed toast ; 
arrange the slices on a hot platter, and add the 
cooked ingredients. 



GOLOASH, HUNGARIAN S'lYLE. 



55 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Goloash, Hungarian style. — This is a 
very good luncheon dish. Put into a frying pan 
half an ounce of fat, and when very hot add a 
tablespoonful of chopped onion, and a teaspoon- 
ful of flour ; when brown, add half a pound of 
tenderloin steak cut into pieces as large as dice. 
Cut up a medium- sized potato into pieces the 
same size, and add to the dish ; now add half a 
pint of broth or hot water, half a teaspoonful 
of Hungarian pepper, salt to taste, then cover, 
and let the dish simmer half an hour. 

Spring Chicken Paprika. — This is a dish 
which is likely to be appreciated more by people 
who keep late hours than others. Cut a raw 
spring chicken into neat pieces, and saute them 
three minutes in a pan ; add half a teaspoonful 
of paprika, and hot water enough to prevent 
burning; and the length of time necessary to 
cook the bird depends on the youth of the 
chicken. When done, add salt and a dust of 
nutmeg. 

Oyster and Chicken Pie. — Cut up a 

small chicken at the joints, remove the skin. 



56 CHICKEN, ECONOMICAL USE OF. 

Put in a frying pan half an ounce of butter pre- 
viously dredged with flour ; when hot add the 
chicken ; toss it about a few moments, and add 
a pint of hot water, season to suit the taste, and 
simmer slowly three-quarters of an hour. Put 
into a pudding dish a tablespoonful of pieces of 
fat bacon ; add a layer of oysters and then the 
pieces of chicken, another layer of oysters and 
the chicken broth ; add the smallest bit of mace, 
and cover the top with paste ; bake forty min- 
utes ; when done brush over the top a very little 
melted butter. 

A pie made of beefsteak and oysters is a very 
appetizing dish, and is prepared much as the 
foregoing. In fact, meat and shellfish pies are 
always acceptable at luncheon. 

Chicken, Economical use of. — When a 
large chicken is purchased for soup, or a sauce, 
cut two neat slices from the breast, and dip 
them in beaten egg ; roll in crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat ; serve with sauce tartar. There will be 
quite enough left for other purposes. 

Calf's Liver en Brochette. — Calf's liver 
is not by any means a dish to be despised, but 
the manner in which it is usually served has 
brought it into disrepute. The butcher should 
cut the slices neatly and not wedge shaped ; then 
cut them into two-inch squares. Cut a few 



A LENTEN LUNCHEON DISH. 



57 



slices of bacon the same size ; arrange them al- 
ternately on wooden skewers, and broil ; squeeze 
a little lemon juice over them, dust over a little 
salt and pepper, and serve. 

A Lenten Luncheon Dish. — Trim off 
all crust from three slices of bread, and grate 
the bread into a small round tin. Moisten it 
with milk ; break into the dish three eggs ; add 
salt and pepper to taste, and break the eggs 
slightly ; strew over the dish a layer of grated 
Parmesan or American cheese, and bake a deli- 
cate brown. 

Potted Pigeons. — A jar of pigeons is a 
very convenient thing to have in the house when 
friends arrive unexpectedly. Clean a dozen 
pigeons thoroughly. Put into a wide, short jar 
a layer of sliced onion ; add the pigeons, and 
strew over them a tablespoonful of mixed whole 
spice ; cover them with vinegar, and let them 
stand over night; drain. Put into a saucepan 
a layer of sliced bacon, and strew over it a thin 
layer of chopped onion ; add the pigeons, and 
a bay leaf, a blade of mace, a dozen cloves, 
and a teaspoonful of whole allspice ; cover, and 
allow them to cook slowly an hour ; then add 
a pint of clear soup ; cover, and allow them to 
cook an hour longer ; remove the birds, strain 
the sauce, and skim off the fat. Put the birds in 



58 BLACKBIRDS EN BROCHETTE. 

a jar, add the sauce, and keep in a cool place 
until wanted. 

When birds of almost all kinds are reason- 
able in price, they are are invariably at their 
best; and families should liberally patronize 
them, as they are a most acceptable change 
from a monotonous diet of meats fresh from the 
butcher. 

Blackbirds en Brochette. — Clean the 
birds nicely ; arrange them on skewers with alter- 
nate layers of pieces of bacon; brush a little 
melted butter over the birds, and broil over a 
slow fire six minutes. When done, pour a litde 
maitre-d'hotel butter over them, and serve on 
skewers. (All birds such as rice, reed, sparrows, 
and all small birds of the snipe family, may be 
served in this manner.) 

Calfs Brains are often neglected by many 
who serve calfs head, one reason being that they 
do not know how to prepare them. For luncheon 
the following mode is the best. 

Croquettes of Calf's Brains. — Let the 
brain stand in cold water an hour, wash it well, 
and remove the membranous covering carefully 
without injuring the appearance of the brain; 
put it in a saucepan ; add a quart of water, for 
each whole brain half a teaspoonful of salt and 
two tablespoonfuls of white wine vinegar. Sim- 



STEWED BEEF WITH DUMPLINGS. 59 

mer half an hour, and the brain is ready to serve 
with almost any kind of sauce, or to be cut into 
slices, dipped into egg or batter, and fried. To 
make croquettes, mince the brain fine ; add one 
minced boiled sweetbread, a tablespoonful of 
fine cracker dust, the yolk of two eggs, a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, two of salt, and a few 
spoonfuls of milk, just enough to make a thick 
paste, and keep on ice until wanted. When 
firm, shape it into cones, corks, or balls, dip 
them in beaten egg, then roll in crumbs, and 
drop them in a pan full of hot fat ; drain them a 
moment on a thick towel, arrange them neatly 
on a hot dish, garnish with tufts of parsley and 
slices of lemon, and serve. 

Stewed Beef with Dumplings. — Select 
the ends of the roast before it is cooked, or the 
ends of the meat purchased for steak. Cut it 
in neat even-sized pieces, and if too fat remove 
a part of it. Put in a frying pan a quantity of 
the surplus fat, and when it liquefies add a table- 
spoonful of minced onion, fry quite brown, then 
add about two pounds of the meat, toss it about 
a few minutes until the sides of each piece are 
slightly fried; then add hot water enough to 
partly cover the meat ; bruise six whole peppers, 
and add them with three whole cloves, a stalk 
or two of celery, and part of a small, cherry pep- 



6o 



FLANK STEAK. 



per ; simmer two and a half hours, take out the 
meat, and strain the sauce. Peel and parboil a 
dozen small potatoes, put six of them in a stew- 
pan, add the meat, then the six other potatoes, 
pour in the strained sauce, and if on hand add 
three half pints of soup stock, if not add hot 
water ; simmer thirty minutes, and add a liberal 
tiuantity of dumplings ; cover, and boil slowly fif- 
teen minutes longer. Put the ingredients on a 
platter, have them arranged neatly, and boil the 
sauce rapidly until reduced one-third, taste it for 
seasoning, pour it over the dish of beef, potatoes, 
and dumplings, and serve. Prepare the dump- 
ling as follows : Three half-pints of sifted flour, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, two-thirds of 
a teaspoonful salt ; mix with three gills of luke- 
warm milk, and add spoonfuls of dough to the 
stew. 

A very nice stew is made on the above plan 
by substituting veal, mutton, rabbits, or squirrels, 
for beef. 

Flank Steak. — Housekeepers do not thor- 
oughly appreciate this piece of meat; but 
butchers and professional cooks do, for they pre- 
fer it to tenderloin, although it rarely costs more 
than a trifle per pound. It is the boneless part 
of the flank, and is secreted between two layers 
pf creamy fat. There are two ways of cutting 



ROAST TENDERLOIN OF BEEF. 6l 

It for broiling purposes. One is to slice it diag- 
onally across the grain ; the other, to divide it in 
two, and trim off the uneven ends. It should 
be well basted with melted butter, or, better still, 
olive oil, and broiled over a moderate fire. 

This piece of meat is most excellent for mak- 
ing many kinds of made dishes, and is at its best 
when used as potted or rolled or spiced beef. 

It makes a delicious beefsteak pie, and is one 
of the most economical and useful cuts of the 
animal. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef. — Select a 
piece cut from the largest end of the tenderloin, 
trim off most of the fat, and cut away the tough 
case-like covering. Lard it nicely, put it in a 
baking tin, surround it with a few young carrots, 
turnips, and potatoes; season nicely with salt, 
pepper, and the slightest suspicion of nutmeg. 
Add a litde hot water or stock, and bake. When 
done put the pan on top of the range, pour in 
half a pint of hot water, and let it simmer a 
moment, then strain into a frying pan ; add half 
a gill of sherry and a teaspoonful of browned 
flour ; simmer and stir ; when quite thick add a 
few chopped mushrooms, and serve with the 
meat. 

Lamb's Liver. — This is a tidbit rarely 
served at the tables of private families, but we 



62 lamb's liver, saute, with potatoes. 

recommend it when obtainable. It is not only 
tender, but it has a delicate flavor which is 
liighly appreciated by epicures. 

Cut into thin slices, and fried or broiled, it is 
quite acceptable. 

When served en brochetie it will be found an 
excellent luncheon dish. 

Lamb's Liver, saute, with Potatoes. — 
Cut the liver into thin slices, and cut the slices 
into small square dice. Peel a few raw pota- 
toes, and cut them into dice the size of the 
pieces of liver. Put into a pan a little dripping, 
and add the pieces of liver. Put into another 
pan an equal amount of potatoes and dripping. 
Cook both about five minutes, and add the pota- 
toes to the liver. Now add a gill of broth or 
hot water, and cover the pan ; let simmer twenty- 
five minutes, and, should the liquid evaporate, 
add a little more to it. When the potatoes are 
tender, the dish is cooked. Then turn it into a 
hot dish, add salt and pepper, and strew over 
the top a few blades of chives cut with scissors. 

Lamb's Liver au Gratin. — Prepare and 
cook the dish as in the foregoing recipe. Then 
put it into a small tin, and strew over it a 
layer of grated cheese ; put into an oven, and, 
when brown, serve in the dish in which it was 
cooked. 



COLD TONGUE. 



63 



Cold Tongue. — Cold tongue may be pre- 
pared for the luncheon table as in the recipes 
for cold ham, also as a curry, and as a salad it 
is delightful. When cut up small and cooked 
with eggs, and then served on toast, it is very 
nice ; one could not possibly object to it cooked 
as follows : — 

Cold Tongue with Nudels. — Cut into 
long, thin strips, six slices of cold tongue, sim- 
mer them for five minutes in hot water. Boil 
half a pound of broad nudels (which are ob- 
tained from the grocers) in milk enough to just 
cover ; simmer fifteen minutes, and drain. But- 
ter a mould or small baking tin, and line it with 
the nudels ; add a thin layer of the tongue and 
a layer of sliced mushrooms, another layer of 
nudels, and so on until the ingredients are used. 
Season with white pepper and very little salt; 
add the milk in which the nudels were boiled ; 
strew over the top a thin layer of bread crumbs, 
and over these a liberal layer of grated cheese ; 
bake a delicate brown, and I am certain it will 
please. 

Nudels. — Germans are celebrated for " Nu- 
dels," or home-made macaroni, which take the 
place of the Italian preparations, and have the ad- 
vantage of one's knowing their composition when 
they are made at home. Work into two beaten 



64 VENISON STEA>K, SAUCE BEARNAI3E. 

eggs as much flour as they will take, and knead to 
a smooth, stiff dough ; divide this into six equal 
parts, and work them into balls ; put one at a 
time on a very smooth bread board, and roll it 
out with a straight even-surfaced rolling-pin until 
it is transparent in every part; lay each sheet 
on a clean towel as soon as finished, and by the 
time the last ball is rolled out, the first will be 
dry enough to cut as follows : Cut the sheet into 
quarters, place them on top of each other with 
their cut edges quite even, and cut them with a 
sharp, thin, steel knife, into very narrow, cord- 
like stripes; spread them apart to dry; con- 
tinue this process until all are cut. The sheets 
may be stamped out with fancy-shaped cutters ; 
when doubled the forms will split apart when 
cooked. White nudels are made with flour and 
white of eggs. If intended for future use, dry 
them well, cover them with paper, and keep in 
a dry place. When wanted for soups, boil them 
twelve to fifteen minutes in the soup ; let them 
float on top a few minutes, and serve. 

Venison Steak, Sauce Bearnaise. — 
Venison can be served in as many ways as beef, 
and is supposed to be more easily digested. 
Select a thick steak from the leg, brush over it 
a little butter, or, better still, olive oil, and broil 
it. Put it on a hot dish, and squeeze a little 



SAUCE BfeARNAISE. 



6s 



lemon juice over it ; pour around it a well-made 
sauce B^arnaise, and serve. 

Sauce B6arnaise. — Reduce a gallon of 
strong soup to a quart by long boiling, and keep 
it warm. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, turn 
them into a buttered saucepan, whisk them, and 
gradually add a pint of the reduced soup (which 
is called glaze) ; add, while whisking, a table- 
spoonful of vinegar strongly flavored with garlic 
(or, if liked, a quantity of the juice from bruised 
garlic or shallots), and the juice of a lemon. 
After beating the eggs, stir them in the pan 
continually with a wooden spoon, and do not 
let the sauce boil at any time; when smooth, 
serve. 

A few mushrooms may be added to the sauce 
if desired. The mention of garlic may prevent 
many from trying this sauce> but a trial of it 
will convince one that the sauce is imperfect 
without the flavor of this odoriferous bulb. 

Venison Steak in Chafing Dish. — Se- 
lect a cutlet or rib chop, an inch thick, and 
having a thick border of fat. Put in a chafing 
dish a pat of butter ; light the spirit lamp, and 
when the butter melts, add the meat. Cook 
one side a few moments, then the other ; turn 
two or three times during the five to seven 
minutes cooking. When half cooked, add half 



66 



CHEESE TOAST. 



a gill of sherry, a heaping teaspoonful of currant 
jelly, salt and pepper. Turn the meat in the 
sauce, and cover the dish. Serve with hot 
plates, and pour the sauce over toast. 

Cheese Toast. — Put half an ounce of 
butter in a frying pan ; when hot, add gradually 
four ounces of mild American cheese. Whisk 
it thoroughly until melted. Beat together half 
a pint of cream and two eggs ; whisk into the 
cheese ; add a little salt, pour over toast, and 
serve. 

Cheese Fondu. — Melt an ounce of butter, 
and whisk into it a pint of boiled milk. Dis- 
solve two tablespoonfuls of flour in a gill of cold 
milk, add it to the boiled milk, and let it cool. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs with a heaping tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
and five ounces of grated cheese. Whip the 
whites of the eggs, and add them; pour the 
mixture into a deep tin lined with buttered 
paper, and allow for the rising, say, four inches. 
Bake twenty minutes, and serve the moment it 
leaves the oven. 

Sausages. — Sausages left over from break- 
fast may be served at lunch, and when served 
with a water-cress salad they are a very appe- 
tizing dish. Sandwiches made from cold sau- 
sages, when cut lengthwise, are often served at 



HAM. 



67 



lunch ; the bread should not be much larger or 
longer than the thin slice of sausage. 

Ham. — Cold boiled ham becomes monoto- 
nous when served in one way continually, and 
the housewife should study variations. 

Deviled Ham is appetizing, and, when not 
too highly seasoned, ladies can enjoy it. Put 
into a dish a heaping teaspoonful of French 
mustard; thin it out with a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice ; add a scant saltspoonful of curry 
powder, and a dash of cayenne ; mix, and 
spread it over a slice of cold boiled ham ; broil 
this a moment, and serve with sliced lemon. 

Ham in Chafing Dish. — Put into a chaf- 
ing-dish half a teaspoonful of butter ; light the 
lamp, and when the butter melts add two table- 
spoonfuls of fruit jelly, and a dash of cayenne ; 
simmer, and add a tablespoonful of sherry ; 
simmer a slice of ham in this a few moments, 
and serve with toast. 

The ham may be cut fine and cooked as the 
foregoing if desired. 

There are many other appetizing forms in 
which cold ham may be served, and the house- 
keeper should experiment a little on her own 
responsibility. 

Ham a la Russe. — Select a small ham; 
trim off all rusty-looking parts, and scald the 



68 SPARE RIliS WITH APPLE FRITTERS. 

ham. Let it remain in the hot water five min- 
utes ; drain, and dry with a cloth. Prepare a 
dough, the same as for bread ; cover the ham 
with it, and bake in a moderate oven two hours ; 
remove the dough and the skin, dust a little 
sugar over the top, heat the coal shovel in the 
range, and hold it close enough to the sugar to 
singe it, then serve with or without sauce. 

Spare Ribs with Apple Fritters. — 
Select freshly-cut short ribs, well covered with 
meat ; cut them so as to have two ribs in each 
piece. Broil in the usual manner; pour over 
them a sauce made of lemon juice, salt, pepper, 
and a little French mustard, and serve with 
apple fritters. 

Frankfort Sausages . — These sausages, 
being smoked, are very appetizing. While they 
are characteristically a German dish, they may 
be made more healthful by much longer cook- 
ing than is usually given them. Our German 
brethren are quite satisfied with " Frankfurter " 
cooked but a few minutes; but as these sau- 
sages contain pork, they, in my opinion, require 
twenty minutes' boiling. A very nice way of 
cooking them is to heat them in a hot frying pan 
a few minutes, then add boiling water, and boil 
them rapidly until done. If they can be steamed, 
they will be found excellent. 



PIGS* FEET, 



69 



Pigs* Feet. — Over two prepared pig's feet, 
split in two, brush a little butter, and broil them. 
When done, squeeze a little lemon juice over 
them, add salt and a little cayenne. They may 
be served plain, or with any of the piquante 
sauces. 

(The " French " pigs' feet found in market 
are the most acceptable, as they are thoroughly 
cleaned, and some of them already boiled ; but 
I consider them better when placed raw in a 
marinade pickle for a few hours, then dried and 
either broiled or sautes. Pigs' feet deviled are 
a very good dish.) 



OYSTERS AND FISH 



CONTENTS. 

rAGi 

INTRODUCTORY ii 

THE OYSTER ii 

The Oyster Season . . . .11 
Oysters out of Season . . . 12 
Oysters Preserved in Shell . .12 
The Food of the Oyster . . 14 
Formation of the Deep Shell . .14 

Cock Oysters 15 

Green Oysters 15 

Banquet Oysters . . . . 16 
Ordering Oysters for the Family Table, i 7 
How Oysters should be Opened . 18 
How to serve Raw Oysters . .18 
Collation Service . . . . 19 
How to Eat a Raw Oyster . -19 
A Barrel of Oysters ... 20 

Read This ! 20 

COOKED OYSTERS 21 

Stewed Oysters 21 

Philadelphia Fried Oysters . . 22 
Curry of Oysters .... 24 
Pickled-Oyster Omelei' . . .24 
Deviled Oysters on Toast . . 24 

Pickled Oysters 24 

Scalloped Oysters . . . . 25 

5 



6 CONTENTS. 

PAGB 

Oyster Salad . . . . .25 

Plain Fried Oysters . . . 26 

Miss Parloa's "New Cook-Book" . 26 

Oyster Toast 26 

Oyster Omelet .... 26 

Oysters, Broiled . . . . 27 

Tripe with Oysters . . . 27 

Oysters en Brochette . . * 27 

Fried Oysters 28 

Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie . 28 

Oyster Patties 28 

Oysters a la Poulette ... 29 

Pie of Oysters and Scallops . . 29 
Steamed Oysters . . . .30 

To Serve Steamed Oysters . . 30 

Roast Oysters 31 

Baked Oysters . . . . 31 

CLAMS 31 

Little-Neck Clams . . . 31 
Soft Clams in Chafing-Dish . .32 

Stewed Little-Neck Clams . . 33 

Soft Clams 33 

Sorr-SHELL Clams Scalloped . . 33 

Clam Toast 34 

Clam Broth 34 

Clam Fritters 34 

Fried Soft Clams , , , , 35 



CONl'ENTS. 7 

PAGB 

CRABS 35 

Hard-shell Crabs . . • • 35 

Crab Paities, Cream Sauce . . 36 
Soft-shell Crabs . . . .37 

The Care of Sorr Crabs . . 38 

Crabs, Soft-shell . . . . 39 

Crab Croquettes .... 39 

Crab Pathes, a la Bechamel . . 40 

Crabs, a l'Americaine . . . 41 

Crabs, Deviled 41 

SCALLOPS 42 

Scallop Broth 42 

Smali, Patties of Scallops . . 43 

Fried Scallops 43 

Scallops en Brochette ... 44 
Stewed Scallops . . . . .44 

MUSSELS 44 

The Mussel 44 

THE LOBSTER .... 45 
Remarks on the Lobster . . .45 

The Season for Lobsier . . 45 

Soft-shell Lobster not Edible . . 46 

Selecting Lobsters . . . . 46 

Value of the Lobster as Food . . 46 

Broiled Lobster . . . . 47 

Lobster Croquettes wtth Pease . . 48 

Lobsters en Brochette ... 48 



8 CONTENTS. 

TAGE 

Deviled Lobster 49 

Stewed Lobster, a la Creole . 49 
Curry of Lobster . . . .50 
Lobster Salad .... 50 

THE OYSTER CRAB . . . .51 
To Serve Oyster Crabs . . . 52 
Oyster-Crab Omelet . . . .52 
Oyster-Crab Sauce . . . . 52 
Acknowledgment 53 

SHRIMPS S3 

Market Price of Shrimps . . .54 
Shrimp Omelet . . . . 54 
Shrimp Sauce 54 

PRAWNS 54 

Curry of Prawns . . . .55 
Prawns, Deviled, en Coquille . 55 
Prawns, Saut^, a la Marengo . .55 
Prawn Salad 56 

CRAYFISH 56 

CRAvnsH Omelet . . . . 57 

SALMON 57 

Salmon Steak 57 

Canned Salmon 57 

Salmon Paities . . . . 58 

Salmon Surprise 59 

Salmon a la Creole . . . 59 
Salmon Pie 60 



CONTENTS. 9 

PAGE 

Salmon in Jelly .... 60 

Salmon Omelet 61 

Salmon, German Style . . . 61 
Salmon a l'Italienne . . . .61 
Salmon a la Hollandaise . . 62 
Salmon, Hunter's Style . . .62 
Bouillabaisse ..... 63 

CODFISH 63 

Boiled Codfish, Oyster Sauce . 63 
CoDnsH Tongues .... 64 

Codfish Steak 64 

New- England Codfish Balls . . 65 

Baked Cod 66 

Salt Codfish with Cream . . 66 
SCROD 67 

BROOK TROUT .... 67 
Brook Trout, Sportsman Style . . 68 
Broiled Trout .... 69 
Brook Trout, Baked . . . .69 
Brook Trout, Boled ... 70 

MISCELLANEOUS .... 70 
Catfish, Fried .... 70 
Tenderloin Troui . . . .71 
Fricasseed Eels . . . 71 

Eel Pati'ies 72 

Stewed Eels, HoBOKE>r Turtle Club Style, 72 
Pan Bass, Anchovy BurncK . . 73 



lO 



CONTENTS. 



Fillet of Flounder, Tartar Sauce . 74 

Fried Tomcods .... 75 

Broiled Salt Codfish . . . - 75 

Broiled Sait Mackerel ... 76 

Fried Porgies with Salt Pork . .77 

Fish Curries 78 

A Plain Fish Curry . . . . 78 

Curry of Scallops . . . . 78 

Curry of Crayfish . . . .79 

Curry of Eels, with Rice , . 79 

Curry of Shad Roe . . . -79 

Curry of Frogs* Legs ... 80 

Broiled Weakfish . . . .80 

Baked Whitefish, Bordeaux Sauce . 81 

Halibut, Egg Sauce . . . .82 

Egg Sauce 82 

Fried Butferfish . . . .82 

Broiled Shad 82 

Baked Shad 83 

Shad Roe a la Poulette . . 83 

Broiled Royans 84 

Broiled Sardines .... 84 

Broiled Smelts, Sauce Tartare . . 84 

Smelts Fried, Sauce Tartare . . 85 

Broiled Whitefish . . . .85 

Sheep's-head with Drawn Butter . 85 

Drawn Butter 86 

Broiled Sheep's-head ... 86 



INTRODUCTORY. 



Would it not be beneficial, were the average 
American to substitute fish for the everlasting 
steak and chop of the breakfast-table? 

For the sake of variety, if for no other rea- 
son, we should eat more fish ; and it need not 
always be fried or broiled. A well-made fish 
stew or a curry should be acceptable to the 
majority of us, and undoubtedly would be if 
appetizingly prepared. 

This little work does not by any means pro- 
pose to exhaust the subject of sea-food, for the 
subject is almost inexhaustible; but it places 
within the reach of all a series of recipes and 
suggestions extremely valuable to the average 
housewife. 



THE OYSTER. 

The Oyster Season opens in the city of 
New York on the first day of September, and 
closes on the last day of April in each year. 

II 



12 



OYSTERS OUT OF SEASON. 



The annual amount of business done in the 
oyster trade is close on to 1^5,000,000. Each 
successive year witnesses an increase in the 
business. 

Notwithstanding the R canon, there are thou- 
sands of persons who eat oysters at the sum- 
mer resorts along the seashore throughout hot 
weather. 

Oysters out of Season. — The writer 
does not recommend the eating of oysters out 
of their season, no matter how fresh they may 
be, or how appetizing they may appear. 

To supply the demands made upon them by 
summer resorts, oyster-planters shift the oysters, 
during the spawning season, from warm shallow 
water to cold deep water. This checks or pre- 
vents the oysters from spawning, and to all 
appearance they are edible; but the writer 
firmly believes that interfering with the laws 
of nature affects the health of the oyster, and 
they cannot be as wholesome as planters would 
have us believe. 

Oysters Preserved in Shell. — So long 
as the oyster retains its natural juices, it will 
live out of water, provided the changes in the 
temperature are not too sudden. The moment 
the oyster opens its shells, however, the juices 
run out, and in a short time afterward the oyster 



OYSTERS PRESERVED IN SHELL. 1 3 

dies. To prevent the oyster opening its stony 
overcoat, is the object of oyster-shippers; and 
the Patent Office bears witness to their many 
devices having this object in view. Some wire 
the shells, others clasp or envelope the broad 
end of the shells with tin or other metal. No 
doubt these devices aid in keeping the oyster 
alive and fresh a little longer. Whether the 
nervous system of the oyster is affected by the 
process, is a question. Scientists tell us that 
oysters possess organs of sensation, and all 
who have handled oysters learn in time that 
a sudden jar or shock will kill them. The jar 
of the machinery of a steamboat will some- 
times kill an oyster. When shipped to Europe 
they are ordered to be stored as far away from 
the machinery as possible. Some authorities 
claim that the oyster can hear. One cannot 
noisily approach an oyster-bed at feeding time 
without their hearing, and instantly every shell 
is closed. A cloud or a boat passing over an 
oyster-bank will cause every shell to close with 
proverbial tightness, and the sound of thunder 
will often kill them while they are in transit, — 
conclusive evidence that the nervous system 
in an oyster, while not highly developed, is of 
sufficient importance to merit attention from 
those who roughly handle oysters. 



14 THfi FOOD OF THE OYSTER. 



The Food of the Oyster consists of 
minute animal and vegetable organisms and 
small particles of organized matter. Ordinary 
sea-water contains an abundance of this sort 
of food, which is drawn into the gills with the 
water. As the water strains through the pores 
into the water tubes, the food particles are 
caught on the surface of the gills by a layer of 
adhesive slime. As soon as they are entangled, 
the microscopic hair-like projections on the 
gills strike against them in such a way as to 
slide them along the gills toward the mouth. 
When they reach the anterior ends of the gills, 
they are pushed off, and fall between the lips, 
which are also covered with thin hair-like pro- 
jections, which carry the particles forward un- 
til they slide into the mouth. No wonder the 
intelligent tramp wished that he might become 
an oyster. His food would then come to him 
in a sort of endless progression. 

Formation of the Deep Shell. — Al- 
though the oyster lies upon the bottom with 
one shell above and one below, the shells are 
not upon the top and bottom of the body, 
but upon the right and left sides. The two 
shells are symmetrical in the young oyster ; but 
after it becomes attached, the lower or attached 
side grows faster than the other, and becomes 



COCK Oysters. 



deep and spoon-shaped, while the free valve 
remains nearly flat. In nearly every case the 
lower or deep valve is the left. 

Cock Oysters. — There is a belief among 
oyster-eaters, that the dark-gray or black oys- 
ters are male oysters, and are therefore superior 
to the female oyster. Such misinformation was 
evidently promulgated by oyster-openers in anti- 
cipation of a tip for serving selected oysters. 
There is no truth in the assertion, however, for 
there are just as many black female oysters as 
there are black male oysters. There is no char- 
acteristic color by which a male or cock oyster 
can be distinguished from a female oyster. 
Microscopic examination, or a scientific eye, is 
the means of discovering the sex of an oyster. 

The black-oyster romance is of ancient ori- 
gin. The Roman oyster-smashers successfully 
"worked it" on Pliny, Horace, and other 
ancient writers and epicures. 

Green Oysters^ — At least a million dollars 
worth of oysters are annually destroyed in New- 
York waters by sludge acid from the oil refin- 
eries and illegal dumpings. The acid kills the 
oysters the instant it touches them, and turns 
them green. There is very little danger that a 
poisoned oyster will reach the consumer, but the 
loss to the planter is enormous. 



i6 



BANQUET OYSTERS. 



The green tint of the oyster, or in fact any 
distinguished color the oyster may possess, is due 
to the color of its food and to the nature of the 
surrounding bottom. The bottom of the Shrews- 
bury River is mud ; the oysters take on a pecu- 
liar tawny color from their muddy bed. Rock- 
away oysters exist on a hard sandy bottom. If 
the beds are covered with sea-lettuce, as they 
often are, the oysters take on a delicate green 
tint. When the lettuce is removed by a strong 
tide or high wind, the oysters gradually assume 
their white, slightly grayish color. Their shells 
are round, thin, and brittle. The shells from 
mud bottoms are long, narrow, thick, and 
spongy. Intruded mud is enclosed by a thin 
layer of pearly shell. 

The oyster epicure may rest assured of one 
fact. No matter what the color of an oyster may 
be, so long as it is alive and seasonable it is 
wholesome. It cannot absorb enough foreign 
matter to injure the epicure without committing 
suicide, and there is no possible danger of any 
one swallowing a dead oyster. 

Banquet Oysters. — As served at the aver- 
age public banquet, the raw oyster is a thing of 
terror to appetite and to weak digestive organs. 
When looking for one's seat, where, through an 
oversight, one is not furnished with a chart of 



ORDERING OYSTERS FOR THE TABLE. 1 7 



the tables, one beholds six very small emaciated 
oysters. The heat in the room has absorbed 
their moisture, afterwards the bed of fine ice on 
which they were placed has melted, and the 
water overflowed them, thereby finishing the work 
of destruction. One must be under the influence 
of the sherry and Vermouth of the reception- 
rooms, to be willing to begin the feast with such 
an introductory course. No wonder fashionable 
society demands a substitute for the oyster^ as 
the dinner season progresses. In the name 
of humanity, order the oysters to table and 
announce the dinner at the same time. Guests 
are willing to wait a few moments for toothsome 
oysters, provided they are direct from the ice- 
box. 

Ordering Oysters for the Family 
Table. — Send the servant to the nearest 
dealer, a few minutes before the oysters are 
wanted, and let her wait for them. In this way 
one is quite sure of procuring freshly opened 
oysters. Many dealers begin opening oysters 
for their family orders hours before they are 
to be served ; and the result is, they have lost 
much of their juices before being served. 

Miss Parloa*s " New Cook Book " says, " Six 
large oysters are usually allowed each person.*' 
This error should be corrected in future editions. 



1 8 HOW OYSTERS SHOULD BE OPENED. 



Large raw oysters on the half-shell are only 
served at oyster-counters to countrymen, and 
are not served at a dinner, no matter how un- 
pretentious or how elaborate the affair may be. 

How Oysters should be opened. — 
In the author's work on " Luncheon," reference 
is made to the great care which should be 
exercised in opening oysters; and it will bear 
repeating. Reject all oysters opened by the 
" smashing " process. The shells are not only 
broken and ragged, but, should a person swallow 
a ragged splinter of oyster-shell, there is great 
danger of its killing him. Insist on it that 
your oysters are opened by the so-called " stab- 
bing " process. 

How to serve Raw Oysters. — If for 
a quiet family affair, where " opened " oysters 
are used, keep the plates in ice-water, and dry 
them before placing the oysters on them. For 
more pretentious affairs, but where fancy oyster- 
plates are not a part of the dinner service, use 
soup-plates. Fill them with fine cracked ice, 
place a dainty doily over each, and set the 
oysters on top of the doily. The lemon should 
be served on a side-dish, and not in the centre 
of the dish as though one were dining in a res- 
taurant. Four small Rockaways are sufficient 
to serve at the ordinary course dinner. In nine 



COLLATION SERVICE. 



19 



cases are out of ten, Rockaways are served in- 
stead of the Blue Points. It is therefore advisable 
to order the former ; the dealer might make a mis- 
take if he had them in stock, and send the latter. 

It is quite English to serve raw oysters on the 
flat half-shell, but it is quite American to serve 
them on the deep shell. The American way is 
the best. 

Collation Service. — At evening collations, 
the pysters are served in the centre of a block of 
ice. A clear, square block of ice is selected, and 
a cavity or receptacle is made in it by the aid of 
a hot flat-iron held close to the ice. If one has 
patience, the cavity may be shaved out with an 
ice shave; if a pick is used, one is likely to 
split the cake of ice. An ice boat is easily 
formed by holding a hot flat-iron to a long piece 
of ice. Holes may be made through the bot- 
tom of the block of ice, and filled with brilliant 
flowers ; and the outer sides and top should be 
handsomely decorated with flowers and smilax. 
If electric lights are used in the house, it is an 
easy matter to place them in the cake of ice : 
the effect is striking. The wires are carried from 
the room below the dining-room, or under the 
carpet. 

How to cat a Raw Oyster. — Avoid as 
much as possible the use of condiments, when 



20 



A BARREL OF OYSTERS. 



eating oysters. They were never intended as 
an accompaniment of the oyster, and are only 
used by country people. A suspicion of lemon ; 
a dash of salt when the dealer has kept them 
covered with cracked ice, and the descending 
ice- water washed out all sea flavor; and, for 
palates grown callous, a dash of cayenne. Such 
abominations as ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, 
etc., should never be used. Do not bolt the 
oyster, but masticate it ; and one will soon leam 
to tell the different oysters by their different 
flavors. By bolting them, one will never know 
how to thoroughly appreciate them. 

A Barrel of Oysters. — Persons living 
away from the city are advised to purchase 
oysters by the barrel. If kept with the deep 
shell down, and in a cool place, they will live a 
long time. The novice is likely to bruise fingers 
in vain attempts to open them ; but, like carving, 
the opening of oysters should be part of a 
man's education. Then there is the charm of 
roasting the oysters in the old-fashioned fire- 
place. Here the novice may bum a finger or 
two, but then it's fun for the youngsters. 

Read this! — In W. Mattieu Williams's 
" Chemistry of Cookery," I find the following : 
" More than half a century has elapsed since 
Dr. Beaumont published the results of his eX- 



STEWED OYSTERS. 



21 



periments on Alexis St. Martin. These showed 
that fresh raw oysters required two hours and 
fifty-five minutes to digest, and stewed fresh 
oysters three and a half hours for digestion; 
against one hour for boiled tripe, and three 
hours for roast or boiled beef or mutton.** 

The general impression among the people is, 
that raw oysters digest almost as soon as they 
become of the same temperature of the stomach. 



COOKED OYSTERS. 

Stewed Oysters. — Boil half a pint of 
milk ; add to it eleven good-sized oysters, a 
walnut of butter, a dash of salt and of pepper. 
Allow the milk to boil up just once, and 
serve. 

The average cook puts the oysters on first, 
and after they boil cold milk is added. When 
the milk boils, the stew is served. The result 
of such treatment of the oyster causes it to 
shrivel so that it is hardly recognizable, and a 
good-sized oyster becomes a mere sprat. From 
this process of cooking originated the ancient 
moth-eaten jokes about church-fair stews. 

Cooked as in the foregoing recipe, the oyster 
retains its plump characteristics. 



22 PHILADELPHIA FRIED OYSTERS. 



Philadelphia Fried Oysters. — The au- 
thor originally published this recipe in the New 
York " Evening Sun " by request. 

The average New Yorker may call the City of 
Brotherly Love a sleepy sort of a place, but it 
is wide enough awake gastronomically. It has 
within its city limits cooks who prepare fried 
oysters that fairly melt in one's mouth. They 
are so delicate that there is not a pang of dys- 
pepsia in a whole winter's supply of the tooth- 
some dainties. The reputation of Finneli's 
Philadelphia fried oysters extends from Maine 
to California; and immense sums have been 
offered for the recipe, but its owner would not 
sell his secret at any price. 

Beat up three eggs thoroughly; add half a 
pint of oyster-juice, a pepper-spoonful of cay- 
enne, a saltspoonful of black pepper, a table- 
spoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of English 
mustard. Work the mixture to a batter, and 
gradually add a gill of oil. Now comes the 
more particular part of the formula. Cover a 
board or part of a table with a layer of cracker- 
crumbs half an inch deep. Drain fifty oysters 
free from liquid, place them on the cracker- 
crumbs, and dredge over them more cracker- 
crumbs. See to it that one oyster is not on top 
of another. Pick up each oyster by its beard, 



PHILADELPHIA FRIED OYSTERS. 23 

and dip it in the batter. Have ready a quan- 
tity of bread-crumbs grated from the white part 
of stale bread ; spread this out on the table, and 
after the oysters have been dipped in the batter 
lay them carefully on the bread-crumbs two 
inches apart. After they are all spread out, turn 
them over neatly, which will bread-crumb the 
other side. Dip them in the batter again by 
taking hold of the beard, and again spread them 
out on the bread-crumbs. Under no circum- 
stances place one oyster on top of another, or 
in any way press them together; this would 
make them heavy. When the fat is so hot that 
the smoke from it would Hght a match, then fry 
them by again taking hold of the beard, one at 
a time, and dropping them into the fat. When 
they are dark brown, take them up, and strew 
over them a quantity of salt. 

The secret is in carefully handling the oyster 
after it has been breaded. How differently 
New York restaurants serve fried oysters ! In 
almost every eating place in the city, one sees 
piles of oysters covered with a batter that plainly 
shows the cook purposely pressed them between 
his hands. When served they look more like 
liver-pads than human food. Nothing short of a 
human ostrich could possibly digest them. The 
Philadelphia oyster, however, is a culinary poem. 



24 



CURRY OF OYSTERS. 



Curry of Oysters. — Put an ounce of but- 
ter in a pan ; add to it a teaspoon of curry-pow- 
der, and water enough to prevent burning. Put 
fifteen oysters in just water enough to cover 
them, simmer three minutes, and drain ; thicken 
the broth with a teaspoonful of flour, salt to 
taste, stir this into the curry ; add the oysters, 
simmer a moment, and serve with boiled rice. 

Pickled - Oyster Omelet. — Rinse six 
spiced or pickled oysters in cold water. Divide 
an ounce of butter into little balls, and roll them 
in flour ; put them in a saucepan, heat gradu- 
ally, and whisk to a cream ; add a gill of hot 
water, salt and pepper. Cut the oysters in two, 
and add to the butter. Prepare an omelet in 
the usual manner ; before folding, add the oys- 
ters ; turn out on a hot dish, and serve. 

Deviled Oysters on Toast. — Mix to- 
gether a heaping saltspoonful of mustard flour, 
half a saltspoonful each of white pepper and 
salt, and the yolk of one egg. Dip six oysters 
in the paste, then in fine crumbs, and broil over 
a moderate fire. When done, arrange on toast, 
and squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon. 

Pickled Oysters. — A few pickled oysters 
may be served instead of clams during warm 
weather. Scald a quart of oysters a moment, 
drain, and put them in jars. To a pint of oyster 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 



25 



liquor, add half a pint of hot water and half a 
pint of hot vinegar ; pour over the oysters ; add 
three cloves, four whole peppers, a small bit of 
mace, and a slice of lemon, to each jar. This 
will be sufficient for two ordinary fruit-jars. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Put in the bottom 
of a yellow dish two ounces of sweet butter, 
divided into little pieces. Add a layer of raw 
oysters, and cover them with cracker-dust or 
bread-crumbs, and add salt and pepper to taste ; 
another layer of oysters, and so on until the dish 
is full, the last or top layer to be crumbs, and 
between each layer there should be a small 
amount of butter. Moisten the ingredients with 
a liberal quantity of oyster liquid, put small but- 
ter balls on top of the dish, and bake a delicate 
brown color. Oysters were formerly baked in 
a scalloped or shell-sliaped dish, hence the 
name. 

Oyster Salad. — Boil two dozen small oys- 
ters' for five minutes in water enough to cover 
them ; add a little salt and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar ; drain and cool. Put into a salad-bowl 
the centre leaves of two heads of cabbage let- 
tuce, add the oysters whole, pour over them a 
mayonnaise; garnish with oyster-crabs, hard- 
boiled eggs, and, if liked, a few anchovies cut 
Hnto fillets. 



26 



PLAIN FRIED OYSTERS. 



Plain Fried Oysters. — As a rule, fried 
oysters are not served as a breakfast dish, owing 
to the coating with which they are usually sur- 
rounded. Served plain, however, they are quite 
acceptable. Dry them well in a napkin, and 
roll them in a little flour to insure that they are 
quite dry, then cook them in a very little hot 
dripping. 

Miss Parloa's "New Cook-Book " says, "a 
quart of oysters is enough for a party of ten " 
(p. ii8). There are from twenty to twenty-five 
oysters in a quart, rarely more than this. 

Oyster Toast. — Select fifteen plump oys- 
ters ; chop them fine, and add salt, pepper, and 
a suspicion of nutmeg. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with a gill of cream ; whisk this into the 
simmering oysters. When set, pour the whole 
over slices of buttered toast. 

Oyster Omelet. — Stew six oysters in their 
own liquor for five minutes ; remove the oysters, 
and thicken the liquid with a walnut of butter 
rolled in flour; season with salt and cayenne; 
whisk this to a cream. Chop the oysters, and 
add them to the sauce ; simmer until the sauce 
thickens. Beat up four eggs lightly, and add a 
tablespoonful of cream ; turn out into a hot pan, 
and fry a light gold-color. Before folding the 
omelet entirely, place the oysters with part of 



OYSTERS BROILED. 



27 



the sauce within, and turn it over on a hot dish. 
The remainder of the sauce should be poured 
round it. 

Oysters Broiled. — Rub the bars of a wire 
broiler with a little sweet butter; dry twelve 
large, plump oysters in a napkin, and place them 
on the broiler ; brush a litde butter over them, 
and broil over a fire free from flame and smoke. 
When done on both sides, arrange them neatly 
on toast; pour a little well-seasoned melted 
butter over them, and serve. 

Do not bread-crumb oysters intend for 
broiling. 

Tripe with Oysters. — Tripe, when prop- 
erly prepared by a simple process, is very nutri- 
tious and easily digested. 

Cut up half a pound of well-washed tripe ; 
simmer for three-quarters of an hour in water 
slightly salted ; take out the tripe ; add to the 
broth a little butter rolled in flour, salt and pep- 
per ; add a little mOre flour if not thick enough. 
Return the tripe and a dozen oysters ; simmer 
for a few minutes longer, and serve. 

Oysters en Brochette. — Select one dozen 
choice oysters ; plunge them into hot water a 
second to make them firm (this process is called 
blanching), then drain, and dip them into melted 
butter ; arrange them on skewers with alternate 



26 



PLAIN FRIED OYSTERS. 



Plain Fried Oysters. — As a rule, fried 
oysters are not served as a breakfast dish, owing 
to the coating with which they are usually sur- 
rounded. Served plain, however, they are quite 
acceptable. Dry them well in a napkin, and 
roll them in a little flour to insure that they are 
quite dry, then cook them in a very little hot 
dripping. 

Miss Parloa's " New Cook-Book " says, " a 
quart of oysters is enough for a party of ten 
(p. ii8). There are from twenty to twenty-five 
oysters in a quart, rarely more than this. 

Oyster Toast. — Select fifteen plump oys- 
ters ; chop them fine, and add salt, pepper, and 
a suspicion of nutmeg. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with a gill of cream ; whisk this into the 
simmering oysters. When set, pour the whole 
over slices of buttered toast. 

Oyster Omelet. — Stew six oysters in their 
own liquor for five minutes ; remove the oysters, 
and thicken the liquid with a walnut of butter 
rolled in flour; season with salt and cayenne; 
whisk this to a cream. Chop the oysters, and 
add them to the sauce ; simmer until the sauce 
thickens. Beat up four eggs lightly, and add a 
tablespoonful of cream ; turn out into a hot pan, 
and fry a light gold-color. Before folding the 
omelet entirely, place the oysters with part of 



OYSTERS BROILED. 



27 



the sauce within, and turn it over on a hot dish. 
The remainder of the sauce should be poured 
round it. 

Oysters Broiled. — Rub the bars of a wire 
broiler with a little sweet butter; dry twelve 
large, plump oysters in a napkin, and place them 
on the broiler ; brush a litde butter over them, 
and broil over a fire free from flame and smoke. 
When done on both sides, arrange them neatly 
on toast; pour a little well-seasoned melted 
butter over them, and serve. 

Do not bread-crumb oysters intend for 
broiUng. 

Tripe with Oysters. — Tripe, when prop- 
erly prepared by a simple process, is very nutri- 
tious and easily digested. 

Cut up half a pound of well-washed tripe ; 
simmer for three-quarters of an hour in water 
slightly salted ; take out the tripe ; add to the 
broth a little butter rolled in flour, salt and pep- 
per ; add a little more flour if not thick enough. 
Return the tripe and a dozen oysters ; simmer 
for a few minutes longer, and serve. 

Oysters en Brochette. — Select one dozen 
choice oysters ; plunge them into hot water a 
second to make them firm (this process is called 
blanching), then drain, and dip them into melted 
butter ; arrange them on skewers with alternate 



28 



FRIED OYSTERS. 



layers of neatly sliced bacon ; broil over a moder- 
ate fire. When done, add maitre-d'hotel butter 
to them, and serve on the skewers. 

Fried Oysters. — Beat up the yolks of four 
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and 
season them with a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of cayenne pepper ; beat up thor- 
oughly. Dry twelve fat oysters on a napkin ; dip 
them in the egg batter, then in cracker-dust; 
shake off the loose cracker-dust, dip them again 
in the egg batter, and lastly roll them in fine 
bread-crumbs. Fry in very hot fat, using fat 
enough to cover them. The oil gives them a 
nice flavor. 

Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie. — One 

pound of best canned salmon, one pint of solid 
oysters, half a pint of oyster liquid ; cover the 
bottom of the dish with neat pieces of the sal- 
mon, season with salt and pepper and an ounce 
of butter rolled in flour, add a few oysters, and 
so on until the ingredients are used. Pour 
in the liquid of both, and cover the top with 
paste. Bake in a moderate oven. There should 
be liquid enough to have the ingredients moist 
when served. 

Oyster Patties. — Roll out a pound of light 
puff'-paste, half an inch in thickness; cut it 
into rounds with a cake-cutter two inches in 



OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. 



29 



diameter; press a small cutter one inch in 
diameter, on each round, one-fourth of an inch 
deep. Place them on a buttered tin, brush a 
little beaten egg over them, and bake in a quick 
oven. When done, remove the centre and a 
little of the inside. Scald (or, as it is called, 
blanch) three dozen oysters; drain. Put into 
a saucepan two ounces of butter, whisk it to a 
cream ; add a teaspoonftil of flour, stir free from 
lumps ; add a heaping saltspoonful of salt, and 
a pepperspoonful of white pepper ; whisk into it 
half a pint each of hot cream and the oyster 
liquor ; allow it to simmer a few minutes and to 
thicken ; then add the oysters and a " squeeze " 
of lemon-juice; when hot fill the shells, and 
serve. If nutmeg is not objected to, a little may 
be used. 

Oysters a la Poulette. — Blanch (scald) 
a dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain them, 
and add to the liquor, salt, half an ounce of 
butter, the juice of half a lemon, a gill of cream, 
and a teaspoonful of dissolved flour. Beat the 
yolk of one egg, and add to the sauce. Stir until 
the sauce thickens ; place the oysters on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over them, add a very little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Pie of Oysters and Scallops. — Take 
one pint of fresh scallops, and wash them in cold 



28 



FRIED OYSTERS. 



layers of neatly sliced bacon ; broil over a moder- 
ate fire. When done, add maitre-d'hotel butter 
to them, and serve on the skewers. 

Fried Oysters. — Beat up the yolks of four 
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and 
season them with a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of cayenne pepper ; beat up thor- 
oughly. Dry twelve fat oysters on a napkin ; dip 
them in the egg batter, then in cracker-dust ; 
shake off the loose cracker-dust, dip them again 
in the egg batter, and lastly roll them in fine 
bread-crumbs. Fry in very hot fat, using fat 
enough to cover them. The oil gives them a 
nice flavor. 

Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie. — One 

pound of best canned salmon, one pint of solid 
oysters, half a pint of oyster liquid ; cover the 
bottom of the dish with neat pieces of the sal- 
mon, season with salt and pepper and an ounce 
of butter rolled in flour, add a few oysters, and 
so on until the ingredients are used. Pour 
in the liquid of both, and cover the top with 
paste. Bake in a moderate oven. There should 
be liquid enough to have the ingredients moist 
when served. 

Oyster Patties. — Roll out a pound of light 
puff'-paste, half an inch in thickness; cut it 
into rounds with a cake-cutter two inches in 



OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. 



29 



diameter; press a small cutter one inch in 
diameter, on each round, one-fourth of an inch 
deep. Place them on a buttered tin, brush a 
little beaten egg over them, and bake in a quick 
oven. When done, remove the centre and a 
little of the inside. Scald (or, as it is called, 
blanch) three dozen oysters; drain. Put into 
a saucepan two ounces of butter, whisk it to a 
cream ; add a teaspoonfiil of flour, stir free from 
lumps ; add a heaping saltspoonful of salt, and 
a pepperspoonful of white pepper ; whisk into it 
half a pint each of hot cream and the oyster 
liquor ; allow it to simmer a few minutes and to 
thicken ; then add the oysters and a " squeeze " 
of lemon-juice; when hot fill the shells, and 
serve. If nutmeg is not objected to, a little may 
be used. 

Oysters a la Poulette. — Blanch (scald) 
a dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain them, 
and add to the liquor, salt, half an ounce of 
butter, the juice of half a lemon, a gill of cream, 
and a teaspoonful of dissolved flour. Beat the 
yolk of one egg, and add to the sauce. Stir until 
the sauce thickens ; place the oysters on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over them, add a very little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

Pie of Oysters and Scallops. — Take 
one pint of fresh scallops, and wash them in cold 



30 



STEAMED OYSTERS. 



water ; drain, and dry them in a napkin. Cut a 
few slices of fat bacon in strips small enough to 
insert the ends in a larding-needle ; lard the 
scallops with them, and dredge them slightly 
with flour. Select one quart of fat oysters ; line 
a baking-dish with puff-paste ; add the scallops 
and oysters in layers ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a dash of mace. Divide an ounce of butter 
into little balls, roll them in flour, and put them 
between the layers; add the oyster liquor. 
Cover with a top crust ; bake forty minutes in 
a moderate oven. 

Steamed Oysters. — Wash and scrub the 
shells thoroughly, and rinse them off* in cold 
water. Put them in a steamer, large or deep 
shell down. Put the steamer on top of a pot 
of boiling water ; steam about six minutes, or 
until the shells separate. Have ready a hot dish 
containing melted butter seasoned with a dash 
of Worcestershire, lemon-juice, salt and cayenne. 
Remove them from the steamer with gloved 
hands, and pick out the oysters with a flat 
knife, saving all the juice possible. Dip the 
oysters in the butter as you open them, and 
the number one can eat is surprising. 

To serve Steamed Oysters. — Steam 
them as in the foregoing recipe. At each guest's 
place at table have ready little saucers containmg 



ROAST OYSTERS. 



31 



a quantity of the hot melted butter. Remove 
the flat shell, and serve the oyster in the lower 
shell ; send about six oysters to each guest at a 
time. 

Roast Oysters. — Clean the shells thor- 
oughly, and place them on the coals in an open 
fire-place, or remove the top of range, and put 
them on the live coals, until they snap open, 
which they will soon do. Care must be exer- 
cised not to burn fingers. 

At evening, young folks like the fun of roasting 
oysters in the furnace below stairs, and eating 
them from the shell as fast as the host can open 
them. 

Baked Oysters. — Clean the shells thor- 
oughly, and fill a dripping-pan with them, deep 
shell down. Look at them after ten minutes. 
If the shells are all opened, they are cooked 
enough. Melted butter, nicely seasoned, is the 
only sauce to serve with them. 



CLAMS. 

Little-Neck Clams. — From the first of 
September until the first of May in the following 
year, the clam — which is richer in nutrition 
than the oyster — is as meek and as gentle as a 



3 a SOFT CLAMS IN CHAFING-DISH. 



clam can be. Yet it submits to all sorts of 
indignities from the oyster, and has never been 
known to talk back during the period men- 
tioned. After the first of May, however, its 
manner changes, and it assumes metropolitan 
airs. It lords it over the oyster as a bantam 
struts around a helpless foe; and it plainly 
intimates to the oyster that moving-day was 
invented to celebrate its departure. 

After May i, the clam must be recognized as 
the avant'Coureur of all dainty feasts. No sum- 
mer dinner or supper of any pretensions is con- 
sidered complete without the small clam. All 
the small clams in market are supposed to 
come from Little Neck, Long Island. Not one- 
quarter of the supply comes from this locality. 

Soft Clams in Chafing-Dish. — Select a 
dozen large Guilford clams, wash them thor- 
oughly, and plunge them into boiling water for 
a moment. Drain and open them, and use the 
round plump part only. Put in a chafing-dish 
a pat of butter, and when quite hot add a dash 
of flour, and cayenne to suit the taste ; add the 
clams, and when they are slightly cooked add 
a gill of light sherry. Cover the dish, and allow 
it to simmer five minutes. Have ready three 
slices of toast, put four clams upon each slice, 
add a little of the hot sherry, and serve. 



STEWED LlTTtE-NEClC CLAMS. 33 

Stewed Little-Neck Clams. — Get two 

dozen freshly opened, very small clams. Boil a 
pint of milk, a dash of white pepper, and a small 
pat of butter. Now add the clams. Let them 
come to a boil, and serve. Longer boiling will 
make the clams almost indigestible. 

Soft Clams. — Select a dozen soft-shell 
clams ; wash them well ; remove the shells ; 
trim off the tough neck ; place each clam on a 
half-shell, and add to each half a teaspoonful of 
finely-chopped bacon, a little cayenne, a very 
small bit of onion, and a pat of butter rolled in 
flour ; strew over the top a little grated Parmesan 
cheese, and bake to a delicate brown. Cracker- 
crumbs may be used instead of the cheese if 
preferred. 

Soft-Shell Clams, Scalloped. — Purchase 
a dozen large soft clams in the shell, and three 
dozen opened clams. Ask the dealer to open 
the first dozen, care being used not to injure 
the shells, which are to be used in cooking the 
clams. Clean the shells well, and put two soft 
clams on each half-shell; add to each a dash 
of white pepper and half a teaspoonful of 
minced celery. Cut a slice of fat bacon into 
the smallest dice, add four of these to each 
shell, strew over the top a thin layer of cracker- 
dust, place a pat of table butter on top, and 



34 



CLAM TOAST. 



bake in the oven until brown. They are de- 
lightful when properly prepared. 

Clam Toast. — Chop up two dozen small 
clams into fine pieces ; simmer for thirty min- 
utes in hot water enough to cover them. Beat 
up the yolks of two eggs ; add a little cayenne 
and a gill of warmed milk ; dissolve half a tea- 
spoonful of flour in a little cold milk ; simmer 
all together ; pour over buttered toast, and 
serve. 

Clam Broth. — Procure three dozen Little- 
Neck clams in the shell ; wash them well in cold 
water; put them in a saucepan, cover with a 
quart of hot water ; boil fifteen minutes ; drain ; 
remove the shells ; chop up the clams, and add 
them to the hot broth with a pat of butter ; salt 
if necessary, and add a little cayenne ; boil ten 
minutes, pour into a soup-tureen, add a slice 
of toast, and send to table. This is the mode 
adopted when we do not have a clam-opener 
in the house. 

Raw, freshly opened clams should be chopped 
fine and prepared in the manner above described. 
The large clams are better for chowders than 
for stews and broth. 

Clam Fritters. — Chop medium fine 
twenty-five large quahaugs, or seventy-five Little 
Necks. To a pint of flour add the beaten yolks 



FRIED SOFT CLAMS. 



35 



of three eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, a dash of cayenne, and 
an ounce of melted butter. Mix well, and make 
a batter by adding about a gill of milk. Add the 
clams, and if the batter is too thick add a little 
of the clam broth. To make them light, beat 
the mixture well ; drop spoonfuls in hot fat, and 
fry brown, as you would doughnuts. 

Fried Soft Clams. — Select half a dozen 
of large Guilford clams. Remove the shells, and 
trim off the dark tough parts. Cut into dice a 
quarter of a pound of salt pork, and fry it. In 
the pork-fat fry the clams, but first dredge them 
^th flour. Serve with a slice of broiled or 
fried fat pork. 



CRABS. 

Hard-shell Crabs. — The common blue 
crab is the species of the crab family which 
we are most familiar with. We remember how 
rapidly they darted away from us when we 
pointed the net towards them, when on our 
summer vacation. We also have vivid recollec- 
tions of their anxiety to shake hands with us 
when in captivity. 

Hard crabs are to be had during almost the 
entire season, and the average price asked for 



36 CRAB PATHES, CREAM SAUCE. 

them is ^3.00 per hundred. Those found in 
market in winter were raked out of the mud, 
where they had buried themselves until the 
advent of warm weather. 

Select a dozen hard crabs, and rinse them 
well in fresh water. Have ready a kettle two- 
thirds full of boiling water, slightly salted ; 
plunge them into it, and boil them for about 
twelve minutes f drain, and when cool put them 
in the ice-box to become cold. 

After the theatre, return home for supper, 
instead of patronizing the restaurant, and serve 
the crabs with sandwiches of buttered bread. A 
light sauteme may be served with them, if not 
objected to. 

Crab Patties, Cream Sauce. — Roll out 
a pound of light puff-paste, half an inch in 
thickness. Cut it into rounds with a cake-cutter 
two inches in diameter. Press a small cutter 
one inch in diameter, on each round, one-fourth 
of an inch deep. Place them on a buttered tin, 
brush a little beaten egg over them, and bake 
in a quick oven. When done, remove the 
centre, and a little of the inside. 

Put into a saucepan half an ounce of butter, 
half an onion minced, half a pound of minced 
raw veal, and a small carrot shredded. Toss 
abgilt fp? Wo or three minutes to fry, but not 



SOFT-SHELL CRABS. 



37 



to color ; then add two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Mix it well with the other ingredients, and add 
three pints of hot water, a pint of boiling cream, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful 
of white pepper. Simmer one hour, and strain 
into a saucepan. Add to each pint of it half a 
gill of warm cream. Place back on range again, 
and simmer until reduced enough to coat the 
spoon, then strain into a crock, and whisk until 
it is cold. This is done to prevent the forma- 
tion of a thick top. At this season of the year 
this is an excellent sauce to have on hand for 
patties, white fish sauces, and also for meat 
sauces. When wanted for patties, melt an 
ounce of butter. While whisking it, gradually 
add a pint of the sauce. Mix it with a quart 
of prepared crab-meat, obtainable at the grocer's. 
When hot, fill the shells with it. 

Soft-shell Crabs. — When the blue crab 
is desirous of increasing his growth, he sheds 
his shell, and for a short period is perfectly 
helpless. The male usually retires to a secluded 
spot out of the reach of eels and other enemies, 
but the female soft shell is protected by a male 
companion whose shell is hard. At Sheepshead 
Bay these are called elopers or double crabs. 
As the tide changes, the soft shell begins to 
harden, when it is called " paper-shell," shedder, 



38 



THE CARE OF SOFT CRABS. 



or feeler. Before reaching its normal condition, 
the crab is called a buckler, and is only used as 
bait. 

The Care of Soft Crabs, — Soft crabs 
require delicate handling and much care. They 
deteriorate rapidly after leaving the water, and 
are often killed in transit by the sudden jarring 
of the train. If a little care is exercised, they 
may be kept alive from six to ten days. First 
select vigorous crabs, remove them from the 
crate, and give them a bath in water slightly 
salted. Clean the crate thoroughly, renew or 
wash the seaweed which accompanies them. 
Strew over the bottom of the crate a layer of 
the seaweed, and place the crabs in the crate 
in layers, faces upward with side spines touch- 
ing each other, and alternated with layers of 
seaweed. When the crate is full, cover it with 
more seaweed, sprinkle salt water over all, and 
set the crate in a dark, cool place. Sprinkle 
salt water over them from day to day, and re- 
new the bath and fresh sea- tangle about every 
other day. Treated this way, they will keep 
in the hottest weather. One of the principal 
objects in covering them with seaweed is to 
keep the light from them. Sudden flashes of 
lightning, if seen by them, would frighten them 
to death. Their sensitive organization cannot 



CRABS, SOFT-SHELL. 



39 



even stand the rumbling of thunder, and they 
should be stored away where they cannot hear 
it distinctly. The only care required in clean- 
ing them for the table is to remove the feathery 
gill-like formations under the side spines, and 
the sand-pouch. Soft crabs are too delicate 
morsels to cover with batter. 

Crabs, Soft-shell. — These should be 
cooked as soon as possible after being caught, 
as their flavor rapidly deteriorates after being 
exposed to the air. Select crabs as lively as pos- 
sible ; remove the feathery substance under the 
pointed sides of the shells ; rinse them in cold 
water; drain; season with salt and pepper; 
dredge them in flour, and fry in hot fat. 

Many serve them rolled in eggs and cracker- 
dust ; but thus they are not as good. 

Crab Croquettes. — Take one pound of 
crab-meat ; gently press out the juice, and put 
it in a bowl with a tablespoonful of fine crumbs, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of 
pepper, a dash of anchovy essence, the yolks 
of two eggs, and a very little cold water. If the 
eggs are not enough to make it the proper con- 
sistency, bind the ingredients together, and place 
on ice until wanted; then work into corks or 
cone-shaped forms, dip them in beaten egg, then 
in crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 



40 CRAB PATllES, A LA BECHAMEL. 

Crab Patties, a la Bechamel. — Prepare 
the shells the same as for oyster patties (which 
see). Put into a saucepan half an ounce of 
butter, half a medium-sized onion minced, half 
a pound of minced raw veal, one small carrot 
shredded ; toss about for two minutes to fry, but 
not to color; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stir it about with the vegetables ; then add three 
pints of hot water, or if convenient use hot soup- 
stock instead; add a pint of boiling cream. 
Season with half a teaspoonful of salt and a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper. Simmer one hour, 
and strain into a saucepan. Add to each pint 
of sauce half a wineglassful of cream. Simmer 
until reduced enough to coat a spoon ; strain it 
again into a crock, and whisk it until cold, to 
prevent a thick top from forming. When wanted 
for patties, or any thing else, boil one pint of it 
with an ounce of butter, whisking it thoroughly. 
Prepare a quart of solid crab-meat, either picked 
from the shells or purchased already prepared ; 
add it to a pint of the sauce ; strew in a few 
shredded mushrooms : fill the crab-shells with 
this, and serve. On fast-days, omit veal and 
stock from meats, and use milk instead. 

[This very excellent sauce was named after 
the Marquis de Bechamel, a worthless court- 
lounger and steward under Louis XIV. Why his 



CRABS, A l'AMERICAINE. 



41 



unsavory memory has been perpetuated by a gas- 
tronomic monument of worth, is one of those 
inexplicable historical facts that students of the 
art of cookery are continually stumbling upon. 
The close observer will not fail, however, to 
discover that nearly all dishes named after old 
French celebrities were stolen bodily from old 
Venetian and Provencal books of cookery, and 
were re-baptized after some of the most notorious 
profligates of the seventeenth and eighteenth 
centuries. Many of these old cook-books, like 
" Opusculum de Obsoniis de Honesta Voluptate," 
a volume printed at Venice, 1475 ('^^ ^^s^ 
cookery-book published), and others, contain 
recipes almost identical with French cookery 
of the past few centuries.] 

Crabs, a rAm6ricaine. — Pick out the 
meat from the shells of four dozen boiled hard- 
shell crabs ; squeeze out the water gently ; put 
the meat in a bowl, and add the yolks of two raw 
eggs, salt, cayenne, and a very little chopped 
parsley, and two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; 
roll the mixture into small balls or cakes ; dip 
in egg batter, roll in cracker-crumbs, and fry to 
a delicate brown. They may be served plain 
or with tomato sauce. 

Crabs, Deviled. — Pick out the meat of 
four dozen boiled hard-shell crabs, put it into a 



42 



SCALLOP BROTH. 



bowl, and add a half-pint of mayonnaise. Mix 
carefully with your hand ; wash a dozen of the 
shells, put a little of the mixture into each ; grate 
a loaf of dry bread, season a pint of it with salt 
and pepper, sprinkle it over the crabs evenly ; 
make twelve little balls of butter about the size 
of hickory-nuts ; put one on top of each crab, 
and bake in a quick oven. 



SCALLOPS. 

The scallop-shell is familiar to even the chil- 
dren who have visited the seashore, and the 
novice wonders why so small a tidbit should 
require so large a shell. The edible part of the 
scallop is only the powerful central muscle by 
which the moUusk opens and closes its shell. The 
medium-sized scallops are the best. The very 
large and very white variety are more than likely 
to have been inflated and bleached by the aid 
of saleratus. 

Scallop-shells were extensively used in ancient 
cookery, and gave to various dishes the prefix 
" scalloped." 

Scallop Broth. — The peculiar flavor of 
scallops is quite attractive to the convalescent, 
and a broth made from them is nourishing ; but 



SMALL PATIIES OF SCALLOPS. 



43 



care should be exercised in selecting the shell- 
fish. To improve their appearance, shippers 
add quantities of saleratus to the scallops, which 
has the effect of bleaching them, and increasing 
their size : this custom may please the dealers, 
but not consumers. Select medium-sized scal- 
lops of a natural creamy color, wash them, and 
cut them into small pieces. To half a pint of 
these, add half a pint of warm water and half a 
pint of milk, a "pea" of butter, and a pinch 
of salt ; simmer for twenty minutes ; strain and 
serve. 

A pint of milk and no water may be used 
if the patient desires it. 

Small Patties of Scallops. — Wash a 
pint of scallops, drain, cut them up, and scald 
them ; then put them in just milk enough to 
prevent burning. Add salt and white pepper, 
simmer until quite tender, and thicken with half 
a teaspoonful of flour dissolved in cold water^ 
Pour this mixture in small patty-shells (see recipe 
for oyster patties), and serve after the soup and 
before the fish, or as an entree. 

Fried Scallops. — Rinse a pint of scallops 
in cold water slightly salted, then dry them in a 
napkin, and dredge them slightly with flour. 
Fry them in pork-fat. Egg batter and crumbs 
are not recommended. 



44 SCALLOPS EN BROCHETTE, 

Scallops en Brochette. — Drain twenty- 
four medium-sized scallops in a napkin. Parboil 
them a moment. When cool arrange them on 
four skewers, six on each, alternated with thin 
slices of bacon the size of the scallops in width. 
Brush over the scallops a little melted butter, 
and broil. When done, serve with tufts of water- 
cresses and lemon. 

Stewed Scallops. — Scald fifteen scallops, 
and put them into a stewpan with half a pint 
of boiling milk, a dash of cayenne, and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Just before serving, add very 
little table butter. 



MUSSELS. 

The Mussel is called the poor man's 
oyster ; but why the poor should have a monop- 
oly of this very useful shellfish, the writer is at 
a loss to comprehend. During warm weather 
the spiced mussel is a treat : it may have the 
honor of ushering in a family dinner instead 
of the clam, and at collations and suppers it 
should be welcome. As they may be purchased 
at from eighteen to twenty- five cents per quart, 
it is a waste of time to pickle them at home, 
unless living at the seashore. 



REMARKS ON THE LOBSTER. 4$ 



THE LOBSTER. 

Remarks on the Lobster. — It takes a 
lobster about five years to arrive at maturity, or 
over ten inches in length. The spawning season 
depends upon the temperature of the water. 
Along the Sound, the season begins in June, 
and ends in September. 

The Season for Lobster. — Lobsters 
are at their best before the spawning season. 
They are then filled with roe, or coral as the 
red spawn is called by some. This is a great 
delicacy, and is highly esteemed by epicures. 
After the spawning season, which is late in the 
summer, they are in very poor condition, and 
should not be offered for sale until cool weather. 

The green part in the body of the lobster is 
called the tom-alley by New- England folks. It 
is excellent eating. 

The external spawn adhering to the tail of 
the female lobster, when not highly developed, 
is edible, and is used in garnishing and making 
lobster butter, paste, and cardinal-fish sauces. 

It is a curious fact, that the lobster changes 
or re-makes a shell from eight to ten times the 
first year, five to seven the second, three to four 
the third, and from two to three the fourth 



46 SOFT-SHELL LOBSTER NOT EDiftLfi. 

year. So says Professor G. O. Sars of Norway, 
about the European lobster, whose habits agree 
more or less closely with those of the American 
lobster. 

Soft-shell Lobster not edible. — After 
the fifth year the change of shell is only an- 
nual. A soft-shell or shedder lobster, unlike 
the soft-shell crab, is not edible, and if eaten is 
likely to produce ill effects. In a soft condition 
the lobster itself is sick, and is therefore unfit for 
food. 

Selecting Lobsters. — Always select a firm 
shell, of a deep dark-green color. Light-colored, 
thin-shelled lobsters are likely to be lean and 
poor. When plunged into the boiling water, 
the joints contract, and the tail draws under, 
provided the lobster was alive at the time of 
immersion. If dead when boiled, the tendons are 
relaxed, the claws hang loosely, the tail will not 
possess a spring-like tenacity when straightened 
out. Select the former, and reject the latter. 

Value of the Lobster as Food. — 
According to Professor Atwater of Middletown, 
Conn., the nutritive value of the flesh of the 
lobster, compared with beef as a standard and 
reckoned at loo, is 6 1 to 97. Forty per cent 
of the lobster is edible, the remainder is shell 
and waste. 



BROILED LOBSTER. 



4? 



Buckland says, "That phosphorus exists in 
large quantities, may be easily proved. A 
lobster in hot weather, when it ceases to be 
fresh, assumes a highly phosphorescent appear- 
ance when seen in the dark, equal if not superior 
to that of a glow-worm or luminous centipede. 
This light increases by friction. . . . The pres- 
sence of phosphorus in the lobster is of great 
importance to the consumers of these sea 
luxuries. There is no substance which conveys 
phosphorus so readily into the human system 
in an agreeable form, and which the system so 
readily and quickly assimilates, as the flesh of 
crabs and lobsters." 

Broiled Lobster. — Select alive and active 
lobster not less than ten and a half inches long. 
(If below this measurement, the dealer should 
be arrested for breaking the law which protects 
the lobster.) Split it in two lengthwise, which 
instantly kills it. Remove the entrail through 
the fleshy part of the tail, and the crop or 
stomach near the head. This done, there are 
two ways of preparing it for table. One is as 
follows : — 

Remove the flesh from the tail, and brush 
over it a little melted butter or olive-oil ; broil it 
gently, but not too well done. Heat the shell, 
put the meat back in the shell again, add more 



48 LOBSTER CROQUETTES, WITH PEASE. 

butter, salt, pepper, and serve on hot plates. 
The body parts may be boiled, and furnish 
dainty pickings for a late meal. 

The other way is that which is generally 
adopted by restaurants. Brush a little butter 
over the entire half of the green lobster ; broil 
the shell side thoroughly first, then turn, and 
broil the other. Serve with maitre-d'hotel sauce. 

A lobster that has once been boiled and then 
broiled is so thoroughly over-cooked as to be 
very indigestible. 

LfObster Croquettes, with Pease. — Boil 
one-half pint of milk, thicken it with a table- 
spoonful of flour, and let it become cold. Mince 
the meat of a one-pound can of lobster, or one 
pound of fresh lobster; when very fine, add a 
saltspoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of 
white pepper. Moisten the lobster mince with 
the thickened milk, and work the whole to a 
paste ; add very little bread-crumb if too thin ; 
let it become amalgamated over the range, and 
place in the ice-box until wanted ; then shape it 
into neat rolls or cones ; dip them in egg and 
crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat. Arrange 
the forms neatly on a dish, put round them a 
border of pease, and serve. 

Lobsters en Brochette. — Instead of boil- 
ing the lobster-tails, cut them in pieces, and 



DEVILED LOBSTER. 



49 



arrange these on small skewers, alternated with 
small pieces of bacon ; brush melted butter over 
them, and either broil or bake them ; serve with 
sauce tartare (which see on p. 84), 

Deviled Lobster. — Take two live lobsters, 
remove the tails, split them in two, and make 
several incisions in them crosswise. Mix to- 
gether half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful 
each of dry mustard and curry, and half a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, add a tablespoonful of 
oil ; mix, spread it over the lobsters, and broil 
them. When done, return to the shells, which 
should have been kept hot for the purpose ; 
pour a little melted butter over them, and serve. 

Stewed Lobster, a la Creole. — Remove 
the tail part of the meat from three green lob- 
sters ; split them in two lengthwise ; remove the 
thread-like intestine. Melt an ounce of butter in 
a deep frying-pan ; add the lobster ; toss it for a 
few minutes in the butter ; add salt and pepper 
and half a pint of hot water ; cover, and simmer 
three-quarters of an hour; drain, and reduce 
the water one-half by rapid boiling. Put in 
a saucepan half an ounce of butter and a 
tablespoonful of minced onion ; fry brown, and 
add three peeled and sliced tomatoes, one sweet 
pepper, four okra pods cut small, and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Allow these to cook fifteen 



CURRY OP LOBSTER. 



minutes, add the broth, and simmer until 
reduced to a pulp ; rub through a sieve ; put 
this puree on a hot dish, place the lobster on 
top, add a little lemon-juice, and serve. 

Curry of Lobster. — Remove the meat 
from two boiled lobsters, cut it into neat pieces ; 
take all green fat and coral, and set them aside ; 
mix the green fat with a heaping spoonful 
of curry-powder. Squeeze out the juice of three 
limes, and add to it half a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered sugar. Put into a frying-pan an ounce 
of butter ; when creamed add a teaspoonful of 
minced onion browned a little; now add the 
mixed curry-powder; dissolve a teaspoonful of 
rice-flour in cold water, add this to a pint of hot 
water or soup-stock, simmer until thick; now 
add the lobster, and simmer twenty minutes 
longer. Wash and dry the coral, separate it. 
Prepare a border of rice on a dish, and over it 
sprinkle the coral and eggs (if any) ; pour the 
curry in the centre, and serve. 

Lobster Salad. — Take two live hen (female) 
lobsters ; boil them thirty minutes ; drain. When 
cold, break them apart ; crack the claws, and 
if the tail-fins are covered with eggs remove 
them carefully. Take out the sand-pouch found 
near the head ; split the fleshy part of the tail 
in two lengthwise, remove the small long entrail 



THE OYSTER CRAR. 



51 



found therein. Adhering to the body-shell 
may be found a layer of creamy fat ; save this, 
and also the green fat in the body of the 
lobster (called tom-alley by New-Englanders), 
and the coral. If celery is used, tear the lob- 
ster into shreds with forks ; if lettuce, cut the 
lobster into half-inch pieces. Place the salad 
herb in a bowl, add the lobster and the fat, and 
pour over it a rich mayonnaise; garnish with 
the claws and heads, tufts of green, hard-boiled 
eggs, etc. The lobster eggs may be separated, 
and sprinkled over the mayonnaise. The coral 
is used for coloring mayonnaise, and also butter, 
which is then used in decorating salmon and 
other dark fish used in salads. 



THE OYSTER CRAB. 

The litde crab found in the oyster is not, as 
commonly supposed by two-thirds of the oyster- 
eating community to be, the young of the blue 
crab ; but it is a distinct species. It is a mess- 
mate of and caterer to the wants of the oyster, 
being therefore a benefit instead of a detriment 
to the latter. In return for the oyster's kindness 
in protecting it against its enemies, the little 
crab catches and crushes food which in its en- 



52 TO SERVE OYSTER CRABS. 

tire state could not be taken by the oyster. A 
singular thing in connection with them is, that 
all found inside of the oyster are females. The 
male of the same variety is found in the neigh- 
borhood, but its shell is firm. 

Oyster-crabs are found at the grocer's, put up 
in half-pint bottles, which retail from 60 to 75 
cents each. At the markets they are sold at 
$2.50 per quart. 

To Serve Oyster Crabs. — Put on a 
small saucer a crisp but dry leaf of lettuce, and 
put in the centre of each leaf a scant tablespoon- 
ful of the oyster crabs. Add a scant teaspoon- 
ful of mayonnaise to each, and serve as a whet 
before a ladies' collation, or at an afternoon 
luncheon. 

Oyster-Crab Omelet. — This is a most 
tempting dish. Roll an ounce of butter into 
little balls, dredge these with flour, put them in 
a pan, and when they begin to melt whisk them ; 
do not let it brown ; add a gill of hot water, 
and simmer until thick ; now add half a pint of 
oyster crabs, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Beat 
up four eggs thoroughly, and make them into an 
omelet ; just before folding, add the crabs, and 
serve. 

Oyster-Crab Sauce. — Add a tablespoon- 
ful of oyster-crabs to half a pint of drawn 



SHRIMPS. 



S3 



butter, sauce hollandaise, or in fact any white 
or cream fish-sauce, and serve with boiled 
fish. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT. 

The writer is deeply indebted to Prof. George 
Brown Goode's compilation and reports of the 
** Fishery Industries of the United States," for 
much of the natural history of fish and shell 
embodied in this work. 



SHRIMPS. 

The common shrimp, which is caught in im- 
mense quantities along our coast all summer, and 
used for bait, is a dainty which summer residents 
should not neglect. When a shrimp salad is 
wanted, however, the servant is sent to the nearest 
grocer for a can of Southern shrimp, and the 
delicious morsel at their very door is used to 
feed the fishes. The trouble seems to be, that 
servants dislike the trouble of picking them out 
of their transparent shells. 

Summer hotels would buy the native shrimp 
if fishermen would take the trouble of offering 
them. No more appetizing or appropriate garnish 
for lobster salads and for portions of boiled fish 



54 MARKET PRICE OF SHRIMPS. 



can be imagined than the little home shrimp 
properly boiled. A plunge into the hot water is 
about all the cooking they need. 

Market Price of Shrimps. — Cooked and 
shelled shrimps are to be had in our markets 
during warm weather, for from thirty to fifty cents 
per quart. Canned shrimps retail for from thirty 
to forty cents per can, and ^3.50 per dozen. 
Rinse them in fresh water before using them. 

Shrimp Omelet. — Toss half a pint of 
canned or fresh shrimps in a little hot butter for 
a moment ; add a little salt and pepper and a 
tablespoonful of tomato sauce. Prepare the 
omelet, and just before folding add the shrimps, 
and serve. 

Shrimp Sauce. — Cut up the shrimps into 
halves, add them to a creamy fish sauce of any 
kind ; mix and serve. 



PRAWNS. 

SciENTiFiCALLV there is a difference between the 
prawn and the shrimp ; but it need not be con- 
sidered by the housewife, except that the prawn, 
that comes to this market from the South already 
cooked and shelled, is larger than the shrimp, 
and a little stronger flavored. 



CURRY OF PRAWNS 



55 



The shrimps and prawns are found in salt and 
brackish water, while the crayfish are inhabitants 
of fresh water. 

Curry of Prawns. — Prawns are at their 
best served as a curry. Boil two quarts of live 
prawns thirty minutes, drain when slightly cooled, 
break away the shells, and set them aside. Rit 
two ounces of butter in a frying-pan ; when very 
hot add a clove of garlic and one sliced apple ; 
brown slightly, remove the garlic, and add a des- 
sertspoonful of curry-powder mixed with a gill 
of water ; stir, and add half a pint of soup-stock 
and half a teaspoonful of flour; now add the 
prawns, and the juice of half a lemon in which 
a lump of sugar has been dissolved. Pour out 
on a hot dish, and send to table with rice 
croquettes. 

Prawns, Deviled, en Coquille. — Simmer 
a quart of prawns fifteen minutes in water fla- 
vored with a little sharp vinegar ; drain, and cut 
them very fine. Add two ounces of butter, a gill 
of water, salt and pepper, the yolks of two eggs, 
and bread-crumbs to absorb the moisture. Mix 
to a paste. Partly fill the shells, cover with 
crumbs, add a small pat of butter to each, and 
bake to a delicate brown. 

Prawns, Saut6, ^ la Marengo. — Wash 
one pint of "shelled" prawns, simmer them 



56 



PRAWN SALAD. 



twenty minutes, drain, and toss them a moment 
in a little hot olive-oil ; remove them, add a sprig 
of parsley, half a dozen button mushrooms, a 
gill of hot water, salt and pepper, and thicken 
with a little flour. Put the prawns on a dish, 
pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried 
eggs and slices of tomatoes fried. 

Prawn Salad. — Take one quart of prawns 
and one quart and a pint of cut celery ; put the 
celery in a bowl ; add the prawns ; garnish neatly, 
and serve with a mayonnaise. 



CRAYFISH. 

The crayfish are inhabitants of fresh-water 
streams ; and they bear a striking resemblance 
to the lobster in appearance, spawning habits, 
shedding their shell, etc. Their season begins 
early in the spring, and lasts until cold weather. 
During a bountiful supply of these delicious 
shell-fish, large quantities are packed away in 
ice-houses for winter use, when there is a big 
demand for them from caterers who use them 
as garnishment, and for salads and sauces. They 
cost from three to four dollars per hundred 
in the New- York markets. Those that come 
from Milwaukee are highly esteemed; and, as 



CRAYFISH OMELET. 



57 



they are already cooked, they may be used at 
luncheon, and on fast-days as salads. A cray- 
fish salad is an enjoyable dish. 

Crayfish Omelet. — Rinse half a pint of 
crayfish tails in salted water, and drain them ; 
then split each tail in two lengthwise, and re- 
move the thread-like intestine found therein. 
Toss them about a moment in a little butter and 
tablespoonful of broth or gravy ; season with a 
dash of cayenne. Make a four-egg omelet, and 
just before folding add the crayfish. 



SALMON. 

Salmon Steak. — Put into fast boiling water, 
salted, a slice of fresh salmon, and boil for five 
minutes quite rapidly ; then set on back of the 
range where it will simmer for fifteen minutes 
longer. Drain, and place it on a napkin sur- 
rounded with a border of parsley. On the two 
ends of the platter place slices of lemon. Serve 
with a sauce in a sauce-boat. Drawn butter 
with a few prawns or shrimps cut up in it is a 
nice sauce for salmon. 

Canned Salmon. — The canning of salmon 
at the source of supply has been of lasting ben- 
efit to mankind, for we are now able to pro- 



SALMON PATTIES. 



cure a pound of salmon in any quarter of the 
globe for a reasonable sum. Canned salmon 
has one advantage over the fresh fish : it does 
not deteriorate, and lose its flavor. Those who 
have tried it say they do not get surfeited with 
canned salmon, although many of the same indi- 
viduals dislike the fresh salmon owing to its 
richness, and on this account rarely eat it. 

Salmon Patties. — This is a very nice way 
of serving salmon at luncheon. Open a pound 
can of salmon, drain, add to the small amount of 
salmon liquid sufficient water to make a gill, 
season it with salt and pepper, and, if on hand, 
add a little anchovy paste. Beat up the yolks 
of two eggs with half a teaspoonful of flour dis- 
solved in a little cold water or milk : add the gill 
of water, place it on the range to become hot 
and thick, whisking it meanwhile ; break the 
salmon into pieces, and add to the sauce. When 
quite hot, fill the patty shells with it, and serve. 
A very rich sauce may be made by the addition 
of butter and cream. 

The patty shells are made as follows : Roll out 
some very light puff-paste, half an inch thick ; 
stamp it in rounds with a three-inch cutter, press 
a small cutter in the middle of each round to 
the depth of quarter of an inch ; put the rounds 
on a buttered tin, brush a little beaten egg over 



SALMON SURPRISE. 



59 



them, and bake in a quick oven. When done, 
remove the centre, scoop out a little of the inside, 
and the shells are ready for the mixture. 

Salmon Surprise. — Boil two quarts of 
potatoes with their jackets on. When done, peel 
and mash them with butter and warm milk. 
Arrange a border of potatoes on a flat, oval dish. 
In the centre of this put a pound of canned or 
cold salmon separated into neat-sized pieces, salt, 
pepper, a very little mace, and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley ; cover the salmon with a layer 
of raw oysters ; add a little oyster-liquor, cover 
the oysters with a thin smooth layer of mashed 
potato, and brush the beaten yolk of egg over 
all. Then make a small hole in the centre, and 
place the dish in an oven hot enough to brown 
the outside quickly. 

Salmon a la Creole. — Scald and put 
three large tomatoes to simmer in very little 
water, until tender : chop up very fine a sweet 
Spanish pepper and quarter of an onion; fry 
these in a little bacon fat ; add the tomato, salt, 
and little white pepper. Simmer until reduced 
to a pulp. Open a pound can of salmon ; set 
the can in a saucepan half full of hot water, turn 
the salmon out on a dish. When it is quite hot, 
pour the pulp over it, and serve. Canned toma- 
toes may be used instead of fresh tomatoes. 



60 



SALMON PIE. 



Salmon Pie. — Cut up four boiled potatoes 
into neat pieces ; cut half a pound of boiled salt 
pork into dice ; divide a pound of canned sal- 
mon into symmetrical pieces ; roll out quarter of 
a pound of puff-paste, cut it into squares, and roll 
each of these into a little ball. Arrange these 
ingredients alternately in a deep yellow dish, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, add hot water or gravy 
to prevent burning, cover the top with paste, 
make a hole in the centre, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Salmon in Jelly. — Take one gallon of 
clear soup, and boil it down to a quart. Soak 
a teaspoonful of gelatine in cold water, and add 
to the reduced soup to make sure that it will 
be stiff when cold. 

Take a two-quart tin mould, set it on ice, and 
pour enough of the liquid in it to cover the 
bottom. Let this become firm. Cut into slices, 
and then into diamonds, boiled beets, white 
turnips, and cold boiled tongue ; dip each into 
the liquid, and place them in the mould in a 
very neat and artistic manner ; when they be- 
come firm, spread over them a layer an inch 
thick, of cream-mashed potato ; now add a 
pound of canned salmon, and pour round the 
edges and on top the remainder of the reduced 
soup, and set the mould in a very cold place to 



SALMON OMELET. 



6i 



become firm. When wanted, dip the mould into 
hot water quickly, and turn it out. This is an 
excellent dish for collations, wedding break- 
fasts, etc. The potato must be made rich with 
butter and milk, and beaten to a light consist- 
ency before being placed in the mould. Any 
other kind of cold fish will answer quite as well 
as salmon for this and other dishes herein 
mentioned. 

Salmon Omelet. — Separate half a pound 
of canned salmon into fiakes, season with salt and 
pepper, a little lemon-juice, and add a little of 
the liquid; heat it a little, whip up the eggs 
for an omelet, prepare it as usual, and just be- 
fore completing the fold add the salmon ; then 
turn it out on a hot dish. 

Salmon, German Style. — Boil two quarts 
of sauerkraut ; drain it, and pile it on a hot 
dish; have ready a pound of canned salmon 
hot ; make a hole in the centre of the kraut, 
insert the fish, simmer and season the salmon 
liquid, pour it over the dish, and serve. 

Salmon a Tltalienne. — Boil half a pound 
of macaroni in water slightly salted ; drain. 
Heat a can of salmon in hot water ; turn it out 
on a dish ; arrange the macaroni round it ; pour 
over the macaroni the contents of a pound, 
can of tomato-pulp (hot), sprinkle over this a 
little grated Parmesan cheese, and serve. 



62 SALMON A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

Salmon a la Hollandaise. — Heat a 
pound of canned salmon in the original can; 
turn it out on a hot dish, garnish neatly, and 
pour over it the following sauce : Cream two 
ounces of butter, whisk into it the yolks of 
two beaten eggs, add a little salt and white 
pepper, and half a teaspoonful of strong vinegar ; 
put the pan in a larger one containing hot 
water, whisk it until it thickens, and just before 
serving add a little lemon-juice. 

Salmon, Hunter's Style. — One of the 
best dishes I have ever eaten while hunting was 
prepared as follows : Take three one-pound cans 
of salmon (save the liquid), and divide into neat 
pieces ; make a dough as for milk biscuits : 
divide half of it into little balls ; take one box 
of sardines ; put a layer of sliced bacon in the 
bottom of a gallon crock; add a layer of sal- 
mon, a few dough balls, two sardines, salt, cay- 
enne. Continue arranging in alternate layers 
until the ingredients are all used ; add a wine- 
glassful of vinegar to the salmon liquid, and 
if there is not enough add a little water ; cover 
the top with the remainder of the dough, and 
tie one or two thicknesses of white cloth over 
all. Dig a hole deep enough to be lined with 
mud or stones and to receive the crock ; build 
a fire in and over it (the smoke will keep off the 



BOUILLABAISSE 



63 



mosquitoes). When reduced to coals, scoop 
out the ashes and coals from the hole, cover the 
cloth with mud, set the crock in the hole, and 
cover up with the hot ashes ; let it remain three 
hours, and a more satisfactory dish cannot be 
imagined. 

Bouillabaisse. This celebrated dish was 
immortalized by Thackeray. Put into a frying- 
pan a gill of olive-oil, a clove of garlic minced, 
a tablespoonful of chopped onion, two cloves, 
six peppercorns ; when slightly brown, add one 
pound of canned salmon and the salmon liquid 
in the can ; add a little salt, a bit of bay leaf, 
three slices of lemon, a pint of tomato pulp, a 
pinch of curry-powder or saffron, a gill of Rhine 
wine, with water enough to cover the fish : sim- 
mer twenty minutes. Line a deep dish with 
toast, remove from the pan all seasoning in sight, 
pour the contents of the pan on the toast, and 
serve. 



CODFISH. 

Boiled Codfish, Oyster Sauce. —The 
only thing that can be urged against this most 
excellent fish is its homely name. Were it not 
so cheap, its good qualities would rapidly find 



64 



CODFISH TONGUES. 



fkvor at all gastronomic entertainments where 
palate-pleasing dishes are appreciated. Put the 
fish into boihng water, slightly salted; add a 
few whole cloves and peppers, and a bit of 
lemon-peel ; pull gently on the fins, and when 
they come out easily the fish is done. Arrange 
neatly on a folded napkin, garnish, and serve 
with oyster sauce. Take six oysters to every 
pound of fish, and scald them in a half-pint of 
hot oyster liquor ; take out the oysters, and add 
to the liquor, salt, pepper, a bit of mace, and an 
ounce of butter; whip into it a gill of milk, 
containing half of a teaspoonful of flour. Sim- 
mer a moment; add the oysters, and send to 
table in a sauce-boat. 

A four-pound fish should cook in about forty 
minutes. 

Codfish Tongues. — Wash four codfish 
tongues thoroughly in cold water; put them 
on the range in hot water, slightly salted, and 
boil thirty minutes ; drain ; arrange neatly on 
a folded napkin placed upon a hot dish; gar- 
nish with parsley and slices of lemon, and send 
to table with cream sauce. 

Codfish Steak. — Select a medium-sized 
fresh codfish, cut it in steaks crosswise of the 
fish about an inch and a half thick ; sprinkle a 
little salt over them, and let them stand two 



NEW-ENGLANt) COt)FlSH BALLS. 65 

hours. Cut into dice a pound of salt fat pork, 
fry out all the fat from them, and remove the 
crisp bits of pork ; put the codfish steaks in a 
pan of corn-meal, dredge them with it, and, 
when the pork-fat is smoking hot, fry the steaks 
in it to a dark brown color on both sides. 
Squeeze over them a little lemon-juice, add a 
dash of freshly ground pepper, and serve with 
hot, old-fashioned, well buttered johnny-cake. 

New.England Codfish Balls. — Shred 
the codfish the night before, and soak it over 
night ; drain quite dry on towel next day. Mash 
fine one pound of hot boiled potatoes. Take 
an equal amount of codfish, and divide it very 
fine. Mix both together, and add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, two ounces of melted butter, 
and a saltspoonful of white pepper. Now beat 
the mixture until it is very light, for upon this 
process depends the success or failure of the 
dish. In shaping them together, do not press 
them any more than is absolutely necessary. 
Most cooks press them into cakes so hard 
that it is next to an impossibility to eat them. 
Dredge them lightly with a little flour, and fry 
them like doughnuts in smoking hot fat. When 
properly prepared and cooked they should fairly 
melt in the mouth, which they will do if thor- 
oughly beaten and lightly handled. 



66 



BAKED COD. 



Baked Cod. — When purchasing a four- 
pound cod, ask your fish-dealer to send you 
three " codfish-heads ; " and as soon as the bas- 
ket comes into the house, rub a little salt on the 
fish, chop the heads into six pieces each, and 
sprinkle a little salt over them. Place them in 
the centre of the baking-pan (to be used as 
supports for the fish), with a gill of water. Set 
the pan in the oven while you prepare the cod. 

Soak in cold water until soft a sufficiency of 
bread to fill the fish ; drain off the water, and 
pound the bread to a paste ; mix with it two 
tablepoonsfuls of melted butter, two raw eggs, a 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, with salt 
and pepper to taste. Put this stuffing inside the 
fish, and sew it up ; place the cod in the pan 
with two or three pieces of butter on the upper 
side of the fish, and baste it frequently ; when it 
is cooked, lay the fish on a hot platter, and gar- 
nish with fried oysters if convenient. Add a 
tablespoonful of brown flour to the pan, a wine- 
glass of claret ; mix, and strain the gravy into a 
sauce-boat. Time to cook, one hour. 

Salt Codfish with Cream. — Soak one 
pound and a half of salt codfish over night. 
Next morning set the fish to simmer for about 
two hours ; drain off the water, and strip the fish 
into shreds ; place it in a saucepan with a quart 



SCROD. 



67 



of milk and two ounces of butter ; mix a table- 
spoonful of flour with two tablespoonfuls of cold 
milk, and add to the fish. Let the whole come to 
a boil ; remove the dish from the fire, beat up one 
egg to a ft-oth, add it to the fish, stir, and serve. 

Scrod. — Small codfish no larger than our 
tomcod are called scrod in Eastern Massachu- 
setts. After they have been corned over night, 
they are broiled and fried. 



BROOK TROUT. 

CuLTTVATED trout may be purchased at from 
sixty to seventy- five cents per pound, and wild 
trout from twenty-five to thirty-five cents per 
pound, after April first. There are many house- 
keepers who will not purchase the latter, think- 
ing that as they are cheaper, they cannot be so 
good as the more expensive trout. Cultivated 
trout are only trout in name and outside appear- 
ance, and no more compare in flavor with the 
wild trout than -chalk does with cheese. They 
are fattened (not allowed to feed naturally) on 
cheap animal food that destroys all trout flavor ; 
and they live in artificial streams or ponds, 
acquiring a peculiar swampy flavor which is 
decidedly objectionable. 



68 BROOK TROUT, SPORTSMAN STYLE. 

The wild trout lives in clear running streams, 
fed from never-ending springs ; here he finds a 
beautiful supply of food furnished by nature's 
generous hand, instead of the refuse of the 
butcher furnished to his more aristocratic 
brother. Besides being superior in every way, 
the wild trout is always cheaper. 

Shippers of trout often pack their speckled 
beauties in moss, which injures their flavor ma- 
terially ; and the housekeeper is obliged to let 
them stand in cold water, slightly salted, to 
extract the flavor of the moss. This is a good 
plan to follow, by the way, when the trout are 
frozen, as nearly all wild trout are in the early 
spring. 

Brook Trout, Sportsman Style. — Clean 
and rinse a quarter-of-a-pound trout in cold 
spring water; dry it in a towel. Cut half a 
pound of salt pork into small pieces ; put these 
into a thoroughly clean frying-pan ; fry out the 
clear fat, and remove the small pieces of pork. 
Rtib a little fine table-salt in the inside of the 
fish, and when the pork-fat is smoking hot, add 
the fish to it ; turn it three times before it is 
done. When nicely browned, serve it on a hot 
dish, and send it to the table without adding 
condiments of any kind. Should you be able to 
procure fresh bytter^ a little may be put on the 



BROILED TROUT. 



69 



fish before it is served, but it must be of 
the very best quality. 

Broiled Trout. — The foregoing is a recipe 
for cooking trout immediately after catching 
them. After they are brought to our city mar- 
kets from distant mountain streams, however, 
they are most toothsome when broiled over a 
declining fire, and require a seasoning of salt, 
pepper, and a little lemon-juice mixed with the 
sweetest of sweet butter. Serve with hot plates. 

Brook Trout, Baked. — Trout weighing a 
pound or over are best when served baked, 
though many sportsmen will not listen to this 
proposition. The outside of a large trout is 
almost ruined in broiling before the centre of 
the fish is cooked. Do not split the fish down 
the back. Take half a pint of fine grated bread- 
crumbs, and soak them in a little milk ; squeeze 
out the milk ; add two ounces of table butter, a 
saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white 
pepper, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, and 
the slightest sprig of thyme ; add the yolk of 
one raw egg ; mix ; open the trout just enough 
to clean it properly ; remove the gills (leave the 
heads on), fill the cavity with the stuffing, and 
sew it up carefully. Put the fish in a tin, on top 
of it place small bits of butter previously rolled 
in flour, place it in a good oven, and bake with 



70 



BROOK TROUT, BOILED. 



the back toward the hottest part of the oven. 
The length of time it will take to cook properly 
is from twenty to thirty minutes, very often a 
little longer, for much depends on the tempera- 
ture of the oven. 

Brook Trout, Boiled. — To boil trout 
seems an outrage; but when one receives a 
large quantity of them, and there is danger of 
their spoiling if not immediately used, put four 
small trout properly cleaned into a saucepan, 
cover them with claret, add a slice of lemon, 
two cloves, four whole peppers, the least bit of 
mace, and a heaping saltspoonful of salt. Sim- 
mer slowly three-quarters of an hour; remove 
the saucepan from the range, and when cold 
take out the fish, put them in a dish, and pour 
the boiled wine over them. Serve at luncheon 
or collations. 

The head, tail, and fins of trout should not be 
removed before cooking. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Catfish, Fried. — Catfish and waffles is a 
combination dear to the hearts of Philadelphians, 
and the road-houses near that city are celebrated 
for cooking them. Select the fish already cleaned, 



THE TENDERLOIN TROUT. 



71 



as it is a troublesome job to clean them, and 
pick out the white instead of the red catfish; 
rub a little salt along the backbone on the in- 
side, and let the fish stand over night. Next 
day dredge them with corn-meal or flour, and 
fry in a little fat ; sprinkle salt and pepper over 
them before serving. 

The Tenderloin Trout. — Large catfish 
are caught in Southern rivers ; and while they are 
fair eating, they are not popular with the whites 
in the vicinity of New Orleans. The restaur- 
ant people, however, cut the fish into pieces an 
inch square and about four inches long ; these 
are dipped in egg, rolled in crumbs, and fried 
and served as tenderloin trout. 

Fricasseed Eels. — Cut up three pounds 
of eels into pieces of three inches in length ; 
put them into a stewpan, and cover them with 
Rhine wine (or two- thirds water and one- third 
vinegar) ; add fifteen oysters, two pieces of 
lemon, a bouquet of herbs, one onion quartered, 
six cloves, three stalks celery, a pinch of cayenne, 
pepper and salt to taste. Stew the eels one 
hour; remove them from the dish; strain the 
liquor. Put it back into the stewpan with a 
gill of cream and an ounce of butter rolled in 
flour ; simmer gently a few minutes, pour over 
the fish, and serve. 



72 



EEL PATTIES. 



Eel Patties. — Take three medium-sized 
eels, and cut them up into inch pieces. Put 
them in a stewpan, add salt, and cover them 
with cold water. When the water comes to a 
boil, take them off the fire, wash them in cold 
water, scrape off any fat that may adhere, return 
them to the stewpan with just enough hot water 
to cover them, and add a blade of mace, a bay 
leaf, a few whole peppers, a few sprigs of pars- 
ley, and one lemon cut into slices. Stew gently 
until the fish will separate from the bone; re- 
move the fish from the broth, pick it into small 
pieces, and set them aside ; reduce the broth a 
little, strain, and thicken with flour and butter. 
Return the fish to the broth, simmer a moment, 
fill your patties, and serve ; make patty-shells as 
directed for oyster patties. 

Stewed Eels, Hoboken Turtle Club 
Style. — Cut into three-inch pieces two pounds 
of medium -sized cleaned eels. Rub the inside of 
each piece with salt. Let stand half an hour, 
then parboil them. Boil an onion in a quart of 
milk, and remove the onion. Drain the eels from 
the water, and add them to the milk. Season 
with half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper, and the slightest suspicion of mace. 
Simmer until the flesh falls from the bones. 

Fried eels should be slightly salted before 



PAN BASS, ANCHOVY BUITER. 73 

cooking them. Do not cover them with batter, 
but dredge them with just flour enough to ab- 
sorb all moisture, then cover them with boiling 
fat, as for doughnut cooking. Many New Eng- 
land families use corn-meal to dredge them with 
instead of flour. 

Eels €71 matelotfCy or sailor fashion, are appre- 
ciated by many. Cut them into three-inch 
pieces, and salt them. Fry an onion brown in a 
little dripping ; add half a pint of broth to the 
brown onion, part of a bay leaf, six broken pep- 
percorns, four whole cloves, and a gill of claret. 
Add the eels to this, and simmer until thoroughly 
cooked. Remove the eels, put them on a hot 
dish, add a teaspoonful of browned flour to the 
sauce, strain, and pour over the eels. 

Pan Bass, Anchovy Butter. — During 
February, March, and the first part of April, 
there may be found in market a variety of bass 
which much resembles the Oswego bass. They 
come from the Carolinas and Virginia, and are 
excellent eating. Let them stand an hour in 
salt water, then drain and wipe dry, and fry 
them in tried-out salt-pork fat. Serve them 
with a butter made as follows : Mix together a 
teaspoonful of anchovy paste with a tablespoon- 
ful of sweet butter, and, if not objected to, add 
a few blades of chopped chives. 



74 FILLET OF FLOUNDER, TARTAR SAUCE. 

The chive has the flavor peculiar to the onion 
family, but in a mild form. It is cultivated by 
truck gardeners, and may be found on the New 
York vegetable stands as early as January. The 
retail price at the first of the season is ten cents 
a tuft ; as it becomes more plentiful, it is off*ered 
at five cents. 

Placed in the kitchen, it grows luxuriantly, — 
in fact, it grows faster than it can be used by a 
small family. This very useful herb should be 
in the kitchen window of every home where 
soups and salads are rightly appreciated. 

The chive grows wild in nearly all of the 
Middle and Eastern States, and the first green 
spot seen in our parks is more than likely to be 
chives. Cows eat it, and their milk has a slight 
garlic flavor. The garlic flavor in milk is decid- 
edly objectionable ; yet the early Dutch settlers 
planted the chives in the pastures for the cows 
to eat, thereby imparting to the milk this pe- 
culiar flavor. 

Fillet of Flounder, Tartar Sauce. — 
Cut the flesh from the bone lengthwise, and then 
cut each piece into strips an inch wide. Dip 
them in beaten egg. Roll them in cracker- 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat enough to cover them. 
This dish appears on our French bills-of-fare as 
filet de sole. Serve with sauce iartare. 



FRIED TOMCODS. 



75 



Fried Tomcods. — These delicate, sweet- 
flavored pan-fish are called frost-fish by dealers, 
but the fishermen along the Hudson call them 
"Tommies." Whatever name they are known 
by, they are delicious morsels when fresh caught. 
Clean them without removing the heads, dry 
them in a napkin, and salt their insides, dredge 
them with a little flour, and fry them crisp in 
hot smoking fat. Put the clean fish into a 
baking-tin. Over each fish place a thin slice 
of bacon, add salt and pepper, and bake them 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Broiled Salt Codfish. — Cut half of a 
small codfish into medium-sized square pieces ; 
split them in two, and soak them over night 
in cold water. Drain, and dry them in a napkin, 
next morning. Rub a little butter over each 
piece, and broil them. Place them on a hot 
platter, and pour a little melted butter over 
them. 

Drawn butter is sometimes served with this 
dish. It should be very smooth looking, and 
have a starchy appearance. Divide three ounces 
of butter into little balls. Dredge them with 
flour. Put one-fourth of them into a saucepan, 
and when they begin to melt, whisk to a smooth 
consistency. Now add one more of the floured 
balls, and whisk thoroughly until incorporated 



76 



BROILED SALT MACKEREL. 



with the first. Repeat this process until all are 
used. When smooth and thick, stir in a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-juice, and, if liked, a little 
chopped parsley. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel. — "I like salt 
mackerel, but it does not agree with me," is a 
remark often heard in nearly all classes of society. 
Many imagine they can eat cured fish with the 
same degree of recklessness and lack of regard 
for dietetic laws which they often show in eat- 
ing more digestible food. They soon discover, 
however, that something is radically wrong ; just 
where the blame rests, is a matter they settle to 
their own satisfaction by declaring that salt mack- 
erel was not intended for civilized people, be- 
cause they are unable to eat it without experien- 
cing disagreeable after-effects. 

Salt mackerel is really wholesome food, but, 
like all cured food, is not so digestible as when 
fresh : it is therefore necessary to restore it as 
near as possible to its original freshness. This 
is done by a thorough soaking in a liberal quan- 
tity of fresh water. There is no danger of the 
fish becoming too fresh ; if it does, it is an easy 
matter to add fresh salt, which is much more 
acceptable than condensed brine. 

In selecting salt mackerel, examine them care- 
fully. If rusty in appearance reject them, " for 



FRIED PORGTES WITH SALT PORK. 77 



rust in fish, if I am not mistaken, is as bad as 
rust in steel or rust in bacon." Large fish are 
likely to be poor and coarse ; a medium-sized or 
No. 2 is the most profitable provided the white 
or under part of the fish is fat. After soaking 
thoroughly, rub a little melted butter or olive-oil 
over them, and broil not too close to the fire ; do 
not cook them enough to dry up all moisture, as 
they would then be unpalatable. After broiling, 
plunge them into boiling water for a moment to 
swell them, — this treatment gives the fish the 
appearance of being fat, — place on a hot plate, 
add a little melted butter, a dash of pepper, and 
finally the juice of half a lemon. 

To avoid the unpleasantness referred to, drink 
all liquids first, before eating a mouthful of the 
fish ; masticate the food thoroughly and slowly, 
and the result will be surptising. Those who 
eat salt fish alternated with mouthfuls of liquid 
must expect the oily particles to rise up, and 
create a gastronomic disturbance. 

Fried Porgies with Salt Pork. — The 
much-abused porgy is one of the sweetest of 
pan- fish. Select four good-sized porgies, and 
clean them, but do not remove the heads. Cut 
into small dice a quarter of a pound of fat salt 
pork, fry out the fat, and when it is very hot fry 
the fish in it. While they are cooking, broil four 



7^ 



FISH CURRIKS. 



small Ihin slices of the pork, aiid serve by placing 
them on top of the fish. Pork gives a more 
delicate flavor to the fish than bacon. 

Pish Curries. — Cold boiled or baked fish 
is simply a luxury when warmed up in a delicious 
curry sauce. This dish may be served at break- 
fast or luncheon. Americans are fast learning 
the usefulness of curry-powders ; as yet they de- 
mand a mild form of curry, and a little flour is 
added to the sauce to tone down the pungency 
of the curry. 

A Plain Fish Curry. — Fry an onion quite 
brown in a little butter or oil, add a teaspoonful 
of curry-powder and half a pint of hot water. 
Dissolve a teaspoonful of flour in a little cold 
water ; when free from lumps add it to the sauce, 
then strain ; divide the cold fish into flakes, and 
warm it up in the sauce. 

Curry of Scallops. — Wash a quart of 
scallops in cold water, drain, put them in a sauce- 
pan, and let them simmer gently one hour. 
Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, remove 
husks, and fry a delicate brown ; drain from the 
hot butter, and pound to a paste with a clove of 
garlic, the grated rind of a lemon. Mix two tea- 
spoonfuls of curry, a little sauce, and an ounce 
of butter, put it in the frying-pan, and add grad- 
ually one half-pint of the scallop broth and the 



CURRY OF CRAYFISH. 79 

almond paste. Now add a pint of hot milk ; 
simmer until the liquid is reduced one-third, 
add the scallops, and serve. 

Curry of Crayfish. — These maybe pur- 
chased by the quart at all seasons. They are 
already boiled. Prepare the curry sauce as 
above described, add the crayfish, and serve 
with rice ; over all squeeze the juice of a sweet 
orange. 

Curry of Eels, with Rice. — Cut into two- 
inch pieces one medium-sized eel or two small 
ones ; put them in a saucepan, and cover with 
boiling water ; add a little salt, a piece of lemon- 
peel, and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; boil slowly 
one hour, and drain. Cut up a small onion, and 
fry it brown in a little butter ; add a pint of 
the water in which the fish was boiled, and a 
teaspoonftil of walnut catsup. Mix together 
a teaspoon ful of flour with a gill of cold water, 
rub it smooth, and add a teaspoonful of dry curry- 
powder. Mix, and add it to the pan, strain, and 
return to the pan ; then add the eels ; simmer 
fifteen minutes, and serve surrounded by a bor- 
der of boiled rice. 

Curry of Shad Roe. — Fry half an onion 
very brown in a heaping teaspoonful of dripping ; 
add a teaspoonful of curry-powder, and a few 
moments later add a gill of hot water ; simmer 



8o CURRY OF FROGS* LEGS. 

five minutes, and add a teaspoonful of flour 
dissolved in a little water. When it begins to 
thicken, strain. While preparing the sauce, boil 
two roes in water well salted. When done, place 
them on a hot platter, and pour the sauce over 
them. 

Curry of Frogs' Legs. — This is an excel- 
lent dish. Wash one pound of frogs' legs in cold 
water ; brown one-fourth of an onion in oil or 
butter ; add a teaspoonful of curry and a pint of 
hot water ; pour this in a saucepan, and add the 
frogs ; simmer an hour and a half, and drain. 
Mix a teaspoonful each of rice-flour and curr)' 
to a paste, with the broth; add salt to taste, 
and half a pint of milk. Place on the range, and 
when hot add the frogs. Blanch two dozen sweet 
almonds ; rub off the skins, split them, and toss 
them about in hot butter ; season with pepper 
and salt ; when done squeeze a little lemon-juice 
over them, and send to table on separate dish 
with the curry. 

Broiled Weakfish. — When freshly caught, 
this is an excellent fish and well flavored ; but 
it loses its flavor when kept on ice more than 
a day, and the flesh becomes soft and spongy. 
In color the weakfish is of a bluish-gray, with 
faint speckled back and sides, belly white, the 
fins yellow. It is in season from May to Octo- 



BAKED WHITEFISH, BORDEAUX SAUCE. 8 1 

ber, and is best- flavored in the latest two months 
of that time. Select a medium-sized fish for 
broiling / see that the flesh is firm, the eyes 
bright, and the gills a bright red, and free from a 
soft, flabby appearance. Place the well-cleaned 
whole fish on the table or fish-board, back 
towards you; make an incision close to the 
head, down to the bone ; hold the head firmly 
with the left hand, and cut the fish in two length- 
wise, keeping the knife close to the bone the 
whole length of the fish ; remove the bone. (The 
bone and head may be boiled a few hours, sea- 
soned, and the broth used in fast-day soups.) 
Cut each piece of fish in two, crosswise ; rub on 
a little sweet oil or melted butter; broil the 
outer side first, then the inner side, and serve 
with this side upwards on the hot dish; pour 
over the fish well-made drawn butter (which 
see). 

Baked Whitefish, Bordeaux Sauce. — 

Clean and stuff" the fish. Put it in a baking-pan, 
and add a liberal quantity of butter, previously 
rolled in flour, to the fish. Put in the pan half 
a pint of claret, and bake for an hour. Remove 
the fish, and strain the gravy ; add to the latter 
a gill more of claret, a teaspoonful of brown 
flour, and a pinch of cayenne, and serve with 
the fish. 



82 



HALIBUT EGG SAUCE. 



Halibut, Egg Sauce. — Select a three- 
pound piece of white halibut, cover it with a 
cloth, and place it in a steamer ; set the steamer 
over a pot of fast boiling water, and steam two 
hours ; place it on a hot dish, surrounded with 
a border of parsley ; and serve with egg-sauce, 
which is made as follows : — 

Egg Sauce. — Cream an ounce of butter; 
add to it one tablespoonful of dry flour, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and half a salt spoonful of white 
pepper (black pepper spoils its color) . Stir it 
briskly, and add half a pint of hot water. Divide 
an ounce of butter into little balls, roll them in 
flour, and add them one at a time; stir con- 
stantly, and care should be exercised not to 
allow the sauce to brown or discolor. Chop 
three cold hard-boiled eggs, and add them to 
the sauce ; let it heat thoroughly, and serve in a 
boat. 

Fried Butterfish.— These flat, slate-col- 
ored little fish are excellent when quite fresh ; 
and as they are easily cleaned, they are recom- 
mended to house-keepers. Fry them in tried- 
out salt-pork fat, which gives them a very nice 
flavor. 

Broiled Shad. — The secret of having the 
fish juicy, and at the same time properly cooked, 
is to rub a little olive- oil over it before broiling, 



BAKED SHAD. 



83 



and broil it over a fire free from smoke or flame. 
Charcoal affords the best fire. The sulphurous 
fumes of hard coal injure the flavor of the fish. 
When done, have ready a little sweet butter melted 
and mixed with salt, white pepper (black pepper 
spoils the looks of the fish), half a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley to two ounces of butter, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Place the fish on a 
hot dish, pour the hot sauce over it, and serve 
with hot plates. 

Baked Shad. — Broiling is, next to planking, 
the best way of cooking this excellent fish ; but 
a baked shad is not to be despised. Prepare it 
as follows : — 

Make a stuffing of soaked bread-crumbs, butter, 
pepper, and salt ; place it lengthwise in a pan ; 
roll walnuts of butter in flour, and put four to 
six of them on top of the fish ; fill the space 
around the fish with inch slices of raw potato, 
and bake forty minutes. When done, serve pota- 
toes and fish together. 

Shad Roe a la Poulette. — Cover a pair 
of roes with water slightly salted ; add a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and a slice of lemon ; simmer 
twenty minutes, and drain ; put into a saucepan 
an ounce of butter ; when it begins to melt, whisk 
it, and add the juice of half a lemon. 

Beat up the yolk of one egg with a gill of 



84 



DROILED ROYANS. 



cream containing half a teaspoonful of flour 
nibbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently into 
the warm butter ; keep it quite warm until it 
thickens^ but do not boil, or it will curdle. Pour 
it over the shad roes, strew over the top a trifle 
of chopped parsley, and serve. 

Broiled Royans. — These delicate little fish 
are excellent as whet at dinner-parties, and may 
be served au naturely or broiled, or served on 
toast. Procure them from the nearest grocer, 
open the can carefully to prevent breaking the 
fish, remove the skin, and broil them over a 
slow fire ; arrange them on toast, squeeze a little 
lemon-juice over them, and serve. 

Broiled Sardines. — When neatly prepared, 
this forms an excellent breakfast or luncheon 
dish. 

Remove the sardines from the can without 
breaking them ; scrape off the skin, place them 
between double wire broilers, and broil to a 
delicate brown; arrange neatly in a hot dish, 
squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and serve. 
Orange-juice is very nice with the above dish. 

Broiled Smelts, Sauce Tartare. — Thor- 
oughly clean half a dozen smelts, split them in 
two, place them on a double wire broiler, and 
broil. Send to table with saicce tarfare, which 
is made as follows : Chop together a few sprigs 



SMELT FRIED, SAUCE TARTARE. 85 

of parsley, six capers, one small pickle, a piece of 
onion as large as a bean. Add these to half a 
pint of mayonnaise, mix, and add a teaspoonful 
of French mustard, mix again, and serve. 

Smelts Fried, Sauce Tartare. — Clean 
six small smelts, leave on the heads, dip them in 
beaten egg, roll them in fine cracker-dust, 
and fry in very hot fat. Serve with sauce 
tartare. 

Broiled Whitefish. — The whitefish is one 
of the best of summer fish, but does not stand 
long transportation very well. See that the flesh 
is firm, and free from flabbiness. Cut the fish 
in two lengthwise, remove the backbone, divide 
each piece in two ; brush over it a little sweet 
butter or olive-oil, and broil over a moderate fire 
for ten minutes. Place it in a hot dish, squeeze 
the juice of a lemon over it, add salt and pepper 
and a tablespoonful of melted butter. Garnish 
with tufts of parsley and thin sHces of lemon, 
and serve. 

Sheeps-head with Drawn Butter. — The 

Englishman who wrote the extraordinary state- 
ment that sheeps-head sometimes sold for " four 
or five pounds sterling in New York " may be 
pleased to learn that the price for this excellent 
fish is fifteen to eighteen cents per pound on an 
average, and that the best mode of preparing it 



86 



DRAWN BUTfER. 



for table is to boil or steam it, although broiled 
sheeps-head is very good. 

Procure a medium-sized fish, clean it thor- 
oughly, and rub a little salt over it ; wrap it in a 
cloth, and put it in a steamer ; place this over 
a pot of fast boiling water, and steam one hour ; 
then lay it whole upon a hot side-dish, garnish 
with tufts of parsley and slices of lemon, and 
serve with drawn butter prepared as follows : — 

Drawn Butter. — Take four ounces of 
butter, and roll it into small balls ; dredge these 
with flour ; put one- fourth of them in a sauce- 
pan, and as they begin to melt whisk them ; add 
the remainder, one at a time, until thoroughly 
smooth ; while stirring add a tablespoonful of 
lemon-juice and half a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley ; pour into a hot sauce-boat, and serve. 

Broiled Sheeps-head. — Split the fish in 
two lengthwise, and remove the head and bone, 
brush over the fish a liberal quantity of melted 
butter or oil, then broil over a fire free from 
flame or smoke. When done, squeeze the juice 
of a lemon over the fish, then add salt, pepper, 
and a pat of the choicest table butter. 



THE CHAFING DISH 



CONTENTS. 



Oysters, 

Deviled Oysters, . 

Oyster Broth, 

Quick Vegetable Soup, 

Clam Broth, 

Clams Epicurean, . 

Mussels, 

Steamed Soft Clams, 
Scallops, 
Scallop Stew, 
Curry of Scallops, 
Curry of Shrimp, 
Curry of Clams, . 
Fish Curries, 
Brook Trout, 
Shad Roe, 
Hamburg Herring, 
Cfab Cakes, . 
Curry of Crabs, . 
Soft Shell Crabs, 



ii CONTENTS. 

PAGB 

Soft Shell Crabs Deviled, . .17 

Lobster Deviled, 17 

Lobster Pompodoro, . . . .17 

Lobster Patties, 17 

Lobster Cutlets, 18 

Lobster Paprika, . . • . .18 
CuRRV OF Lobster, . . -19 

Rice for Curry, 19 

Lobster a la Newburg, . . .20 

Shrimp Patties, 22 

Shrimps in Butter, . , -23 

Codfish Tongues, 23 

Frogs Legs, 24 

Frog Leg Patties, . . . .24 
Curry of Salmon, . . . .24 

Eels, 25 

Stewed Eels, 25 

Curried Eels, 26 

Curry of Eels, . • . . . 26 

Turtle Steak, 26 

Turtle Steak Deviled, . . .26 
Turtle Steak a la Henry Guy Carle- 
ton, 27 

Curry of Prawns, . . . .27 

Terrapin, 28 

Snails, 29 

Snails on Toast, 29 

Poached Eggs, ..... 29 



contents. 

Eggs with Cheese, 
Eggs with Asparagus Tops, 
Eggs with Brown Butter, 
Eggs with Chives, 
Eggs a la Brisbane, 
Boiled Eggs, 
Eggs with Curry, 
Eggs with Garlic Oil, 
Eggs with Kidneys, 
Kidneys with Bacon, . 
Kidneys and Potato, , 
Kidneys with Mushrooms, 
Curried Veal Chops, . 
Veal Tomato Sauce, . 
Curry of Sweetbreads, 
Calf's Liver with Bacon, 
" Gravy, 
Roast Beef for Breakfast 

EON, 

Steak Rechauffe, 
Tripe, .... 
Curried Tripe, 
Curried Tripe and Onions, 
Chops and Cutlets, 
Pig's Feet, . 
Potatoes Lyonnaise, . 
Potatoes k l'Ete, 
Potato Dice, 



or Lunch 



111 

PAGB 
30 
30 
30 
30 
31 
31 
31 
31 
31 
32 
32 
32 

33 
33 
33 
34 
34 

34 
34 
35 
35 
35 
36 
36 
36 
36 
37 



iv 



CONTENTS. 



Mushrooms, 


PACK 

- 37 


Puff-Balls, 


- 37 


Green Peas, 


• 37 


Canned Peas, .... 


• 38 


Chicken Gallosch, 


• 38 


Beef Gallosch, .... 


• 38 


Pork Tenderloin, 


• 39 


The Mysteries of Welsh Rabbits, 


• 39 



INTRODL'CTORY. 



1 , the latest fad 

,eadi»g clubs »' p,^pe« .ba< m » 

reverse in the past. displayed »« this 

The sound common ^-^^f^^ J.pid thi.g 
,ad shows that socvety .^^^^ 
our humorous 30"rna sv 

it to be. Society tc^daj ^t^know 
Rapidly towards th^P-^^^^^^^^^^^ 

LTo^"-'^^ 
andlackof socUUtand-g^ ^ ^^^.^^^ 

^^.^'to'tt^v^^:Ur^- 

ble, it IS not on^v 



vi 



INTRODUCTORY. 



intellectual entertainment as well. The pal- 
ate-ravishing aromas which arise, keenly 
sharpen the most jaded appetite, and the prepa- 
ration of the viands loosens the tongue of the 
most bashful, ending in useful and instructive 
discussion. 



The Author. 



THE 



CHAFING DISH. 



«Slspoon£ul oi ^-^^J^'^^'Juer begins to 
a pinch ot flour y -J^" f ^,,den spoon, sea- 
Jit stir it rapidly «^th a w ^ ^^^^ ,f 

son mtb a sf ^P'lf uquor, stir and 

cayenne, add » g'" o> oys- 
simmer a lew secand. then ^^^^ 

ters. When the gdls bcgi 

ITl be cooked enough, serve P 

X«t.«^o...-Put-ae^-^ 

.teLpoone«i o;j'--;^:Un ten oysters 
hot. nraln and dvy - V ^^^^^ ^ 
d,,dge them m a Wtle^ ^^„er untrl 

^--*^°"'SSt-or, both sides-, sea- 

thev are a delicaie u 

Ion with salt i-PP- i,er a tea- 

D«vUod Oy^t^'^'^-JJ^; , Wonful of 
spoonful oi c^V^^^l^;^^ sait and 

ly mustard, a ^^^^ ot one raw egg, 

white pepper and the y 



6 



OYSTER BkOTH. 



work to a paste with a table-spoonful of oil, 
spread this over six large or twelve small oys- 
ters. Put into a chafing dish two table-spoon- 
fuls of olive oil ; when hot add the oysters and 
cook well done. 

Oyster Broth.— Chop up two dozen medium 
sized oysters, put it into a chafing dish with 
three half pints of oyster liquor or water, sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and a walnut of butter ; 
serve in small cups. 

Quiok Vegetable Soup.— Put into , a chaf- 
ing dish three pints of water, when it boils 
add two table^spoonfuls of canned mace- 
doihe, a table-spoonful of maggi bouilbn, salt 
and pepper to taste and serve.. Dried juli- 
enne which comes in paper packages may be 
used instead of the macedoine but requires 
ten minutes cooking. Peas, etc. may also be 
used. 

Clam Broth.— Chop up a dozen little neck 
clams, put them into a chafing dish with 
a pint and a half of clam broth or hot water, 
a walnut of butter, a dash of cayenne^ and a 
single clove. Simmer f ve minutes and serve 
with toasted bread dice. Some like the broth 
thickened with a little cracker dust. 

dams Epicurean.— Put into the chafing 
dish a tea-spoonful of butter, a dash of 



ktfSSBiLS. 



9 



cayenne, and a dozen small clams; simmer 
five minutes, add a table-spoonful of sherry, a 
tea-spoonful of Epicurean sauce and serve on 
toasted crackers. 

Mussels.— Boil two dozen mussels in their 
shells twenty minutes : when cool remove them 
from the shells and put them in the chafing 
dish with a scant table-spoonful of butter, a 
pinch of curry powder, a gill of claret and a 
little salt. Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of 
browned flour in a gill of water, stir into the 
dish, simmer until the sauce thickens and serve. 

Mussels No. 2.— Boil the mussels as in 
the foregoing recipe. Put into the chafing 
dish a table-spoonful of butter, when hot add 
a minced onion and fry it brown. Add a pint 
of dark' beef gravy or hot water thickened 
with browned flour and colored with kitchen 
bouquet or kitchen caramel ; stir into the 
sauce a tea-spoonful of paprika, add two dozen 
boiled . Mussfels : when thoroughly warmed 
through, serve. 

. MxusBseljB No. 3.— Proceed as in the fore- 
going recipe except that after the onion is 
cooked add a tea-spoonful of curry powder 
instead of paprika. 

Mussels No. 4.— Put into the chafing dish 
two table-spoohfuls of table butter, stir it rap- 



10 



STEAMED SOFT CLAMS. 



idly as it melts and add two heaping table* 
spoonfuls of pompodoro or tomato paste; 
mix together thoroughly, add a pint of hot 
water or better still beef broth, salt and cay- 
enne to taste; in this sauce warm up two 
dozen mussels. 

Steamed Soft Clams.— Wash a dozen soft 
or paper shell clams thoroughly so as to 
free them from all sand and grit ; put into a 
chafing dish a scant table-spoonful of butter, 
put in the clams, shells and all, pile them up 
in the dish evenly, cover well ; light the chaf- 
ing dish lamp and let them cook in their own 
juice at least fifteen minutes. 

Have ready a hot vegetable dish half filled 
with hot melted butter, remove the shells and 
the black skin covering the necks, take hold 
of the latter, dip the body of each, clam into 
the hot butter and eat them while hot with a 
slice of Boston brown bread. Oysters and 
Little Neck Clams may be thus treated. 

Soft Clams No. 2.— Remove the shells 
from a dozen soft or paper shell clams, trim 
off two-thirds of the tough neck. Cut three 
thin slices of bacon about four inches long, 
into dice ; put these into the chafing dish and 
fry them crisp. Add the soft clams and cook 
them well done in the bacon fat. 



SCALLOPS. 



II 



Soallops.— Scald two dozen scallops, drain 
and dry them in a napkin, then fry them in 
the chafing dish with three table-spoonfuls of 
butter. 

Sc3allop Stew.— Boil two dozen large scal- 
lops thirty minutes in water seasoned with 
salt, three whole cloves and a bit of mace. 
Take four table-spoonfuls of table butter, 
divide it into balls, dredge these with flour ; 
put one-third of the number into the chafing 
dish and whisk them rapidly, add a gill of the 
scallop water and as it thickens add one at 
a time the remainder of the butter balls ; 
when it becomes too thick add a little 
more of the scallop water using a pint of it 
altogether. When the ingredients are all 
used, add salt and cayenne to taste ; warm up 
the scallops in this and just before serving 
squeeze over the dish the juice of half a 
lemon. 

Scallop Stew.— Parboil the scallops fifteen 
minutes, put them in the chafing dish with 
nearly a pint of boiled milk, salt, pepper and 
a walnut of butter ; simmer ten minutes. 

Curry of Scallops.— Make a curry sauce by 
putting into the chafing dish the heaping table- 
spoonful of olive oil, butter or beef drippings ; 
in this fry a minced onion brown, add a tea- 



12 



CURRY OF SHRIMI^. 



Spoonful of curry powder, let it cook a 
moment and add a pint of consomme or veal 
broth with salt to taste. Thicken this slightly 
with a little flour dissolved in cold water, 
simmer till smooth, add a tea-spoonful of 
chutney if convenient, and in this sauce warm 
up a pint of boiled scallops. 

Curry of Shrimp.— Put into a chafing dish 
a table-spoonful of olive oil or butter, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped onion and fry a delicate 
brown ; add a tea-spoonful of curry powder. 
Allow the powder to cook a moment, then add 
a pint of beef broth; simmer ten minutes^ 
and add a tea-spoonful of rice flour dissolved 
in cold water. Let boil until it thickens 
slightly, then strain into another dish. Open 
a can of shrimps, rinse them off with cold 
water, add them to the curry sauce, warm up 
the dish, then pour over it three tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh orange juice, and serve with 
boiled rice. 

Shrimp Curry No. 2.— Fry a minced onion 
with a table-spoonful of beef drippings ; when 
brown add a heaping table-spoonful of curry 
powder, a tea-spoonful of rice flour, and a 
heaping saltspoonful of salt ; stir to prevent 
burning and when the ingredients are in 
(danger of burning add a pint of hot water 



CURRY OF CLAMS. 1 3 

or broth. Cook until the sauce thickens 
slightly, strain and add a square of sugar, a 
heaping table-spoonful of either chutney, 
apple or cranberry sauce. Put into the sauce 
a can of shrimps, let the whole warm through 
thoroughly. Arrange on a platter a border of 
boiled rice, put the curried shrimp in the 
centre, squeeze over the shrimp the juice of 
a lime and over the rice sprinkle the juice of 
an orange. 

Cuxry of Clams.— Both the little neck and 
the paper shell clams are very good served 
as a chafing dish curry, the body part of the 
soft clam should only be used, as the re- 
mainder is somewhat tough. The Little 
Necks, if cooked too much will be tough. 
Serve them with a plain curry sauce, made as 
the sauce for curry of scallops. 

Pish Curries.— Cold fish of any kind may 
be advantageously served in the chafing dish 
the next day in the form of a curry. All that 
is necessary is to warm up the fish in the 
sauce ; care must be exercised however not to 
break or separate the fish into too fine pieces. 
Canned salmon, etc., are all excellent and 
quite convenient for chafing dish cookery 
either plain or as a curry. 

Brook Trout.— Small brook trout may be 



14 SHAD ROE A LA CHARLES W. BROOKE. 

saut^ed in a chafing dish at table or they may 
be steamed by filling a hot water dish with hot 
water, then placing over it a sieve or steamer. 
The rising steam will cook the fish in a very 
few minutes. A little butter may be melted in 
a flat dish used as a cover. 

Shad Boe a la Charles W. Brooke.— Scald 
a pair of shad roe, when cool remove the thin 
membrane. Put the roe into a small saucepan, 
cover with white wine, season with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one clove, and a very small 
piece of mace. Cover the dish and simmer 
half an hour. 

Wash a pint of scallops in cold water, drain, 
put them into a saucepan and cover with hot 
water ; season with i of a tea-spoonful of salt, 
an eighth of a bay leaf, four whole allspice and 
two cloves. Cover the dish and boil half an 
hour. 

Put into a small saucepan a heaping table- 
spoonful of butter; as it melts whisk it and add 
a heaping table-spoonful of flour, and a gill of 
the water in which the scallops were boiled. 
Whisk rapidly and add another large spoonful 
of butter, another gill of the scallop water, a 
tea-spoonful of garlic juice, and i of a tea-spoon- 
ful of salt. Stir rapidly until quite smooth 
and of a velvety appearance, and incorporate 



HAMBURG HERRING. 



in it another spoonful of butter, using three 
in all. 

Allow the sauce to cool a little, then whisk 
into it the beaten yolks of three eggs. 

Drain off the water from the shad roe and 
the scallops. 

Put the roe into a chafing dish, arrange the 
scallops over them neatly. Now cover the 
scallops with a thin layer of freshly grated 
horse-radish, using half a pint. Over this pour 
the sauce. Light the burner and when the 
horse-radish is thoroughly heated, serve. 

Hamburg Herring.— We are indebted to a 
distinguished German gourmet for a most tooth- 
some Lenten dainty. It is a fat herring which 
was put into a smoke house almost alive. 
When thoroughly smoked it is packed in tins 
while warm, and sealed. No salt is used in 
the curing of the dainty; they must therefore 
be used shortly after the tin is opened. 

They taste like fresh herring — one of the 
sweetest of fish— with the addition of that 
peculiar appetizing flavor so characteristic of 
the products of the smoke house. 

As a relish they are superior in flavor to kip- 
pered or any other style or kind of prepared 
fish. They are imported from Hamburg, Ger- 
many, 



i6 



CRAB CAKES. 



Like nearly every other kind of cured fish, 
this new tidbit requires but warming through 
to be fully appreciated. 

Remove the skin carefully without breaking 
the flesh, warm it up with a little butter in a 
chafing dish. 

Crab Cake8.--The meat from the hard shell 
crabs, after boiling, may be made into little 
cakes, held together with the yolk of an egg, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, then cooked on 
both sides in the chafing dish with a small 
amount of butter or oil. 

Curry of Crabs.— Open a can of canned crab 
meat and turn it out into a dish ; examine it 
for small pieces of shell ; in their hurry the 
canners are sometimes careless and throw in 
pieces of shell with the meat. Make a curry 
sauce as for curry of scallops (which see), warm 
the crab meat in it and serve with boiled rice. 
The meat from fresh caught crabs of course is 
to be preferred, but the former is more conven- 
ient for city folks. 

Soft Shell Crabs.— Clean the crabs by re- 
moving the sand pouch, and feathery gill like 
particles found under the side points of the 
shell ; dry them in a towel, dredge with flour 
and cook them in a chafing dish until a delicate 
brown. 



SOFT SHELL CRABS DEVILED. 1 7 

Soft Shell Crabs Deviled.— Make a paste 
of a table-spoonful of curry powder, a tea-spoon- 
ful of made English mustard, a tea-spoonful of 
Epicurean sauce, half a tea-spoonful of salt and 
a liberal tea-spoonful of oil ; spread this paste 
over the soft crabs and cook them in the cha- 
fing dish at table with a liberal quantity of but- 
ter or beef drippings. Do not put them 
into the chafing dish until the fat is very 
hot. 

Lobster Deviled.— Split the tail part of a 
boiled lobster in two, remove the thread like 
intestine found in the centre, cover with the 
paste recommended for Soft Crabs Deviled and 
cook ten minutes in the chafing dish. The 
raw lobster is much better for this purpose, but 
it must be cooked well. 

Lobster Foini>odoro.— Cut into neat pieces 
the tail part of two lobsters. Procure from an 
Italian grocer a can of pompodoro, which is a 
kind of imported tomato paste. Put into the 
chafing dish two heaping table-spoonfuls of 
table butter and three of the paste, whisk rap- 
idly together as they melt, then add a pint of 
broth or water, simmer until it thickens; warm 
up the lobster in this. A hundred other food 
items may be similarly treated. 

Lobster Patties,— The small patty shells 



l8 LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

may be obtained from the nearest caterer or 
baker. Warm them before using. 

Put into the hot water dish of the chafing dish 
two thirds of a pint of hot water ; over this put 
the handled dish and in it boil a pint of milk. 
Dissolve a table-spoonful of flour in a little cold 
milk, add it to the hot milk ; when thick stir 
in gradually two heaping table-spoonfuls of 
table butter. Let it become quite thick by 
cooking. Cut into small pieces the tail part 
of two boiled lobsters, season well with salt 
and pepper and over it squeeze a little lemon 
juice; add the lobster to the sauce, reduce 
the heat and serve by filling the heated shells 
with the mixture. 

Iiobster Cutlets.— Use live lobsters for this 
purpose. See to it that they are lively, then 
kill them by cleaving the heads in two; re- 
move the tail part, cut each tail in two and 
cook the meat thoroughly with beef dripping 
or butter ; season with salt and cayenne. 

IiobBter Fftprika.— Fry in the chafing dish 
minced onion brown, with a table-spoonful of 
beef dripping or olive oil, add a pint of good 
strong beef broth or consomme, a tea-spoonful 
of the Hungarian mild red pepper called 
Paprika. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of flour in a 
gill of cold water, add it also with half a tea- 



CURRY OF LOBSTER. 1 9 

spoonful of salt, simmer until the sauce 
thickens a little, then add boiled lobster meat 
cut up, or in cutlet form ; simmer five minutes 
longer and serve. A tea-spoonful of pompo- 
doro will improve this sauce. 

Curry of Lobster.— A delicious curry may 
be made from lobster as follows : — Put into 
chafing dish a table-spoonful of butter. When 
it foams add a heaping table-spoonful of 
minced onion. Let the onion brown well, 
then add a heaping tea-spoonful of curry pow- 
der. Allow this to cook from three to five 
minutes or until it becomes almost black. Add 
a pint of rice water, or soup stock if preferred; 
season with half a tea-spoonful of salt, simmer 
five minutes and add a pint more of the rice 
water ; simmer until reduced nearly one-half, 
then warm up the lobster in the sauce and 
serve with boiled rice. There must be suffi- 
cient sauce to allow the meat to almost float 
about in it. The rice water referred to is water 
in which rice was boiled. It is scientifically 
of more nutritive value than the rice itself. 

Rice Ibr Curry.— The essential point to be 
gained is that after boiling, each grain of rice 
must be distinct and unbroken, yet tender and 
to every appearance fairly ready to burst yet re- 
mains intact. To accomplish this a small 



20 LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

quantity of rice must be cooked in a large 
volume of water. An ordinary half pint cupful 
of rice should be boiled in at least a gallon of 
water. It will surprise the uninitiated when 
they compare the bulk of the rice before and 
after cooking. The rice should be first well 
washed in several waters ; reject all husks 
and imperfect grains ; put the rice into cold 
water slightly salted and boil about twenty- 
five minutes. Old rice requires a little longer 
cooking. The grains should occasionally be 
tested, and when a slight pressure will crush 
them they are done. If boiled until the 
grains burst the rice is spoiled for serving 
with curry. If boiled in a small volume of 
water the rice is also rendered useless as the 
grains will stick together. After boiling, the 
rice should be placed over the range where it 
will throw off the moisture absorbed in the 
boiling. 

Lobster a la Newburg. — Lobster a la New- 
burg is now a popular dish on our restaurant 
bills of fare. 

A recent writer on gastronomic matters, in 
speaking of the origin of the dish said: "It 
was invented by a resident of Newburg on the 
Hudson, who named it after his native town." 

Were it not for the fact that a number of 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 21 

the old habitues of Delmonico's are still alive 
to prove the falsity of this statement, the fu- 
ture epicurean historian might be led to make 
the same error as past writers have made in 
their attempt to trace the origin of many of 
the popular dishes of to-day. 

Lobster a la Newburg was invented by Ben 
Wenberg. " Ben " as he was called was in 
every sense of the word a true gastronome. 
Mr. Wenberg probably did more to popular- 
ize the chafing dish than any one of the pa- 
trons of Delmonico's. In those good old 
days Wenberg would gather about him a half 
a dozen congenial spirits, and cook for them 
at table the stewed lobster which honestly 
deserves to be named after him. Old Charles 
Delmonico once put a la Wenberg on the bill 
of fare in honor of its inventor but the mod- 
esty of the epicure objected so earnestly that 
to please him the first half of the name was 
reversed and the dish became Newburg in- 
stead of Wenberg. It is made as follows t 

Put into a chafing dish three ounces of 
butter, stir it as it creams ; add a gill of water 
containing a teaspoonful of flour, season with 
salt and cayenne; pour in a pint of boiled 
milk, stir and simmer till smooth. Beat up 
the yolks of three raw eggs, let the boiled 



22 



LA NEWBURG. 



milky etc. cool a little by reducing the heat, 
then add the egg, half a gill of sherry ; work all 
together and in it warm up the meat from 
the boiled lobsters. 

Almost every cook has a different way of 
making sauce; the most popular one is the 
cream sauce usually served with Terrapin. 
A friend of Mr. Wenberg's told me he did not 
use eggs in his. 

Here is another formula. 

lOL Newborg. — Divide two medium sized 
lobsters in halves. Remove the ccM-al and 
creamy green fat and put one side. Put into 
a chafing dish two ounces of table butter. 
When it creams whisk into it a gill of Madeira 
or sherry. Simmer until reduced one-half. 
Beat together the yolks of three eggs and half 
a pint of rich cream, season with a little salt 
and cayenne pepper. Divide three ounces of 
table butter into little balls, dredge these with 
flour and one by one add to the sauce, whisk- 
ing thoroughly as each butter ball is added. 
Reduce to a paste the coral and the tom-alley 
and stir into the sauce. Simmer until the 
sauce becomes of a creamy consistency, then 
add the lobster, mix and serve. 

Shrimp Fatties.— This is a delicious lunch- 
eon dish and may be prepared at table by the 



SHRIMPS IN BUTTER. 



23 



lady, as the pattie shells may be obtained 
from the nearest caterer or baker. Put into 
the chafing dish a pint of hot milk, add to it a 
table-spoonful of flour previously dissolved in 
a little cold milk, simmer until thick and stir 
into it gradually two ounces of butter and half 
a tea-spoonful of salt. Open a can of New 
Orleans shrimp, take them out of the can and 
the linen bag in which they come and rinse in 
cold water ; cut them in two and send to table 
with heated patty shells ; warm up the shrimp 
in the sauce in the chafing dish, fill the patty 
shells and serve. 

Shrimps in Butter.— Put into the chafing 
dish two table-spoonfuls of butter, toss the 
shrimp about in it, add the juice of half a 
lime, a dash of cayenne, a gill of water ; cook 
three minutes and serve. 

Codfish Tongues.— Scald the codfish tongues 
a moment, drain and cut them each into four 
pieces, cook them six minutes in the chafing 
dish with two table-spoonfuls of butter, add 
the juice of half a lemon, a sprig of parsley 
chopped up and a tea-spoonful of mushroom 
catsup. 

Codfish Tongues No. 2.— Boil three codfish 
tongues in water slightly salted thirty minutes 
and send them to table for the chafing dish. 



24 



CODFISH TONGUES NO. 2. 



Put into the hot water dish half a pint of hot 
water, over this place the chafing dish proper. 
Bruise a clove of garlic, put it in the upper 
dish with a heaping table-spoonful of butter, 
whisk it with a wooden spoon, add a table- 
spoonful of flour and a pint of milk ; stir con- 
stantly and whisk into it the beaten yolks of 
two eggs ; season with salt and pepper, warm 
up the codfish tongues in the sauce, before 
serving, add the juice of a lemon. Care must 
be exercised not to allow the eggs to curdle. 

Frogs Legs.— Boil four pairs of frogs legs in 
milk forty minutes and send to table for the 
chafing dish. They may afterwards be pre- 
pared for the guests by warming them up in 
any one of the sauces heretofore recommended. 

Frog Leg Patties.— Boil the legs until the 
meat falls from the bone ; remove the bones 
and send the meat to table with small patty 
shells previously warmed. Prepare a sauce as 
for lobster patties, warm the meat up in it and 
serve. 

Curry of Salmon.— Cold boiled salmon 
may be served as a curry in a chafing dish 
and a salmon steak cooked in a curry sauce is 
very good eating, but there is no better way 
of serving canned salmon than as a curry. 
The only point is to be sure to buy the best 



CURRY OF SALMON. 



known brand of canned salmon. Fry a 
minced onion brown in the chafing dish with 
an overflowing table-spoonful of olive oil, add 
two tea-spoonfuls of curry powder, let cook a 
moment and add a pint of hot water, a table- 
spoonful of flour dissolved in cold water, a 
table-spoonful of tomato catsup or chutney, 
and a little salt, stir, simmer until the sauce 
thickens, then add the contents of a one 
pound can of salmon to the sauce ; let it warm 
through before serving. 

Eels.— Cut into three inch pieces two me- 
dium sized eels and parboil them half an 
hour ; dry in a napkin. Cut into dice two 
medium sized slices of fat salt pork, fry the 
pork out and in the fat finish cooking the 
eels; add a little lemon juice before serv- 
ing. 

Stewed Eels.— Boil two pounds of medium 
sized salt water eels half an hour and send to 
table for the chafing dish. Put into the chaf- 
ing dish two scant tea-spoonfuls of butter, a 
minced onion, a bit of mace and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Allow the onion to cook 
until it is in danger of becoming from straw 
to a darker color, then add a pint of boiled 
milk; add a scant tea-spoonful of flour dis- 
solved in a little cold milk, when smooth add 



26 



CURRIED EELS. 



the eelSy simmer five minutes longer before 
serving. 

Carried Sel8.^Put into a chafing dish two 
table-spoonfuls of olive oil, before it gets too 
hot add a tea-spoonful of curry powder, now 
add a few pieces of cold eels, stir them round 
or shake the dish, to cover the pieces evenly 
with the curry; when thoroughly heated 
through, serve. 

Curry of Eels.— Put into a chafing dish a 
heaping table-spoonful of butter, a minced 
onion, a tea-spoonful of curry powder, six 
pieces of raw eel, each about an inch long, 
cover and shake the dish to prevent burning ; 
cook five minutes and add a pint of veal 
broth, or better still, fish consomm^, a tea- 
spoonful of chutney or tomato sauce. Serve 
with boiled rice. 

Turtle Steak.— Florida sends us turtle steak 
in cans, it is very convenient at times to have 
a can of it in the house ; in fact, all modern 
canned goods are quite useful and convenient 
in chafing dish cookery. The prejudice against 
such prepared food is absurd. Cook the 
steak in butter, season with salt, cayenne, a 
few spoonfuls of good sherry or port, and 
serve on toast. 

Turtle Steak Deviled.— Add to half a gill 



TURTLE STEAK DEVILED. 



27 



of orange juice a tea-spoonful of com powder 
and salt-spoonful of mustard, spread it over 
a turtle steak and cook the steak in a chafing 
dish five minutes on each side. 

Turtle St6a.k a la Henry Guy Carleton.— 
Melt two ounces of butter in a chafing dish, 
add a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, two 
table-spoonfuls of currant jelly, a gill of port 
wine, a dash of cayenne and a little salt. In 
this simmer the steak till tender ; finally add 
the juice of half a lime and serve. 

Curry of Frawns-^Put into a chafing dish a 
heaping table-spoonful of butter, when hot add 
a chopped spring onion or a young leek, cook a 
few moments and add a heaping tea-spoonful 
of curry powder, stir to prevent burning, allow 
it to cook a moment and add half a pint of 
hot water or beef stock, one small sour apple 
peeled and cut into dice, a square of sugar 
and a tea-spoonful of epicurean sauce ; cover 
and simmer until the apple is cooked, then add 
another half pint of beef broth, a quart of 
boiled prawns add to the sauce, heat them 
through, season with a small quantity of salt 
and a table-spoonful of tomato catsup, pour 
out the curry on to a hot platter, surround it 
with a border of boiled rice, squeeze over the 
curry the juice of half a lemon and serve. 



38 



TERRAPIN. 



Terrapin.— Prepared terrapin is always to 
be had in New York and for this reason it is 
often seen served out of season. Thus pre- 
pared it simply requires warming up in the 
chafing dish, with a little sherry added. 

Terrapin Ko. 2.— A great deal of care 
should be exercised in selecting the live ter- 
rapin. This is the first and at the same time 
the most important step in the preparation of 
the dish. The best should be fresh caught 
and fresh and healthy looking, a pen terrapin 
spends most of its time seeking freedom. It 
worries under restraint and will prove poor 
eating, the liver will taste so rank that one 
can hardly eat it. The legs of the penned 
terrapin will show ebrasions on the under side 
where the poor thing injured itself seeking an 
avenue of escape. 

The right kind selected, plunge it into boil- 
ing water and boil fifteen minutes ; when cool 
remove the under shell, the skin from the 
legs, the gall bag and entrails and throw this 
refuse away. Put the remainder into a sauce- 
pan, season it with salt and a dash of cayenne ; 
add just water enough to prevent burning and 
simmer an hour. Now add a gill of good 
sherry and put it away as it is better the next 
day. Put into the chafing dish a scant table- 



SNAILS. 



29 



spoonful of table butter, and a salt-spoonful of 
flour, rub this smooth and add the terrapin 
with two table-spoonfuls of sherry, cook three 
minutes and serve. 

Snails.—Rinse a quart of snails in cold 
water slightly salted, drain and boil them half 
an hour in barely sufficient water to cover 
them ; when cool pick them out of the shells, 
cut off the nose and the tip end of the tails, 
put them back in the shells, then put them 
into the chafing dish, add half a pint of strong 
beef gravy or broth, a table-spoonful each of 
epicurean sauce and claret, salt to taste, 
simmer until the sauce is nearly evaporated. 

Snails on Toast.— Boil the snails as in the 
foregoing recipe, pick them out of the shells 
and chop them fine, season slightly with salt, 
white pepper and nutmeg, warm this hash in 
the chafing dish with a little butter, when 
ready serve on thin buttered toast. 

Poached Eggs.— In parts of New England 
they call this dish " poached eggs." Beat up 
six eggs, add a salt-spoonful of salt and a pint 
of milk. Put over the hot water dish the 
chafing dish proper; put into the latter a 
table-spoonful of butter, when melted stir in 
the egg mixture and keep stirring it with a 
fork until it sets. Serve on toast. 



30 



POACHED EGGS. 



Poaohed Eggs.— Put into the hot water dbh 
of the chafing dish, six poached egg rings, 
surround them with hot water, carefully break 
an egg into each ring and when firm place on 
buttered toast. 

Eggs with Cheese.— Break into a well but- 
tered chafing dish six eggs, stir them back 
and forth with a fork as for scrambled eggs ; 
when set, sprinkle a few drops of vinegar over 
the eggs, salt and pepper to taste and finally 
a liberal layer of grated cheese. 

Eggs with Asparagus Tops.— Proceed as in 
the foregoing recipe except to omit the cheese 
and substitute asparagus points from the aspar- 
agus left from the preceding dinner. When 
the asparagus points are hot, serve. 

Eggs with Brown Butter.— Allow three 
heaping table-spoonfuls of butter to cook in 
the chafing dish until almost black. Drop 
into it carefully four eggs and as they cook, 
throw the butter over them with a spoon. 
When well done place on thin toast, add a 
few drops of tarragon vinegar and serve. 

Eggs with Chives.— Break six eggs into 
the chafing dish proper, which should be 
placed over the hot water dish, add to them a 
tea-spoonful of chopped chives, a dash of 
paprika, a little salt, and serve. 



EGGS WITH CHIVES. 3 1 

^ Eggs a la Brisbane.—Mr. Arthur Brisbane, 
the distinguished journalist, prepares scram- 
bled eggs in a chafing dish and serves with 
them a rich truffled sauce called sauce Per- 
igord. It is a delightful late supper dish; 
those who can afford it are referred to Mr. 
Murrey's more pretentious works for the recipe 
of the sauce. 

Boiled Eggs.— The chafing dish is just the 
thing for boiling eggs at table in hot 
weather. 

Eggs with Curry.— Sprinkle over six scram- 
bled eggs while they are cooking half a tea- 
spoonful of dry curry powder and serve on toast. 

Eggs with Gkirlio Oil.— Divide a bulb of 
garlic into cloves, remove the outside husks, 
cut each clove into thin strips lengthwise, put 
them into half a pint bottle and fill the bottle 
with olive oil ; in a week the oil will take on 
the flavor of the garlic and use this oil for 
frying eggs. While cooking keep the cover 
on as the oil spatters. 

Eggs with Kidneys.— Scald three mutton 
kidneys, remove the thin skin over them and 
cut them into thin slices. Put into the chaf- 
ing dish a table-spoonful of beef drippings, 
when hot add a chopped Bermuda onion ; 
when slightly browned add the kidneys, salt 



32 EGGS WITH KIDNEYS. 

and white pepper to taste, cook the kidne}'S 
three minutes, add four raw eggs and when 
the latter becomes firm, serve. 

Kidneys with Baoon.— Put into the chafing 
dish two table-spoonfuls of chopped bacon. 
When well cooked add three scalded, skinned 
and sliced kidneys, cook four minutes, season 
with a little white pepper, and serve. 

Kidneys and Potatoe8.~Wash, peel and 
cut into small dice two medium sized raw 
potatoes. Scald and skin three mutton kid- 
neys, quarter them, chop up sufficient celery 
to make a tea-spoonful. Put into a chafing 
dish a scant table-spoonful of butter ; when 
quite hot, put in the potatoes, stir to prevent 
sticking to the dish, add the celery, then the 
kidneys and half a pint of good rich brown 
gravy. Season with salt and pepper and a 
table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. Cover 
and simmer six minutes and serve. 

Kidneys with Mu8hTOoms.~Scald, skin 
and quarter six lambs' kidneys, cut into thin 
slices the contents of half a can of French 
mushrooms. Put into the chafing dish a 
heaping table-spoonful of butter, a minced 
onion and a very small piece of a bay leaf ; 
when the onion is quite brown add a tea- 
spoonful of browned flour ; stir into the dish 



CURRIED VEAL CHOPS. 



33 



a pint of beef broth and a scant tea-spoonful 
of kitchen bouquet ; season with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of white 
pepper, add the kidneys and the mushrooms, 
stir to prevent burning and cook six minutes. 

Curried Veal Chops.— Mix together a heap- 
ing table-spoonful of curry powder, two salt- 
spoonfuls of salt, a lea-spoonful of " made " 
mustard, a dash of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of 
epicurean sauce, and olive oil enough to make 
a paste ; spread a little of this on both sides 
of the chops, then dip in beaten egg, roll in 
bread crumbs and fry in the chafing dish. 

Veal Tomato Sauce.— Cut into neat slices 
a small quantity of cold roast veal. Put into 
the chafing dish two table-spoonfuls of butter, 
three table-spoonfuls of pompodoro — Italian 
tomato paste — and a pint of veal broth, salt 
and cayenne to taste. When smooth add the 
meat and serve when quite hot. 

Curry of Sweetbreads.— Select two fine 
sweetbreads, scald them and remove from 
them all sinews, etc. Put them into water 
slightly salted, cover and parboil half an hour ; 
drain, and keep in cold water till wanted. 
Prepare a plain curry sauce in the chafing dish ; 
slice the sweetbreads, cook them in the sauce 
ten minutes and serve. 



34 calf's liver with bacon. 

GalTs Liver with Baoon.— Cut three small 
thin slices of bacon into inch pieces and cook 
them well done in a chafing dish, add to the 
dish one and one half more calf's liver sliced 
quite thin. Cook until the liver begins to curl 
up on the sides. 

Calf*8 Liver with Gravy .—Prepare in the 
chafing dish a brown gravy, similar to, (in- 
structions for Kidneys with Mushrooms) and 
in this sauce simmer three thin slices of calf's 
liver. 

Boast Beef for Breakfkst or Limoheon.— 

Put into the chafing dish a table-spoonful of 
beef drippings ; when hot, add a medium sized 
red onion, chopped fine, two whole cloves, 
four pepper corns, broken, two allspice, the 
smallest bit of bay leaf, a sprig each of green 
parsley and celery. When the onion is quite 
brown, add a pint and a half of hot water, or 
better still beef broth. Simmer six minutes, 
add salt and cayenne. Dissolve a heaping 
table-spoonful of flour in a gill of cold water ; 
rub it smooth, add a few spoonfuls of the hot 
sauce to the flour, then pour it into the 
dish, stir well and add half a tea-spoonful of 
kitchen boquet ; in this warm up cold roast 
beef. 

Steak Beohauflfe.— Divide into small balls 



TRIPE. 



35 



four ounces of butter, dredge these with flour. 
Put one fourth of them into a chafing dish 
and over the hot water dish ; as it melts whisk 
it rapidly and add a pint of hot water, whisk 
rapidly and gradually add one fourth more of 
the butter balls, repeat this process until the 
butter is all used. Let the sauce cool a little, 
season with sauce and white pepper. Bruise 
all over a piece of cold broiled sirloin steak 
the juice of three cloves of garlic ; now return 
to the sauce, and add to it while off the flame, 
the yolks of two raw eggs, if too hot the eggs 
will separate ; in this sauce warm up the steak. 

Tripe.— Select the double tripe if possible ; 
boil a pound of it an hour and a half. When 
wanted warm it up in a sauce made as per rec- 
ipe for cold steak. 

Curried Tripe.— Rinse off a pound of fresh 
tripe in scalding hot water, drain it, cut it into 
conveniently sized pieces, and boil them in 
water slightly salted, an hour and a half, then 
add the tripe to a plain curry sauce made in 
the chafing dish and serve with boiled rice. 

Curried Tripe and Onions.— Cut into slices 
three Bermuda or white onions. Fry in the 
chafing dish a delicate brown, with three 
table-spoonfuls of olive oil ; strew over the 
onion a tea-spoonful of curry-powder, add half 



36 



CHOPS AND CUTLETS. 



a pound of cold boiled tripe, cover the dish, 
and shake the pan to prevent burning ; when 
the onion is cooked, serve. 

Chops and Cutlets.— It is really surprising 
how quickly and how very perfect chops, steaks 
and cutlets of all kinds can be cooked in a 
chafing dish at table. The dish must invaria- 
bly be kept covered to prevent the hot fat 
from jumping out. I have cooked chops per- 
fectly in from four to seven minutes, the varia- 
tion in time depending upon the thickness of 
the meat. 

Fig's !Feet.^It is more convenient and more 
economical to buy pig's feet already boiled, 
split them in two and saute in the chafing dish. 
Care must be exercised to use sufficient fat 
to prevent sticking to the dish. 

Potatoes Iiyonnaise.^Cut two red onions 
into quarters, then into strips and fry them in 
a chafing dish with either butter or beef drip- 
pings. Cut up into small slices five medium 
sized new potatoes — boiled — and cook them 
well with the onion. 

Potatoes a I'Ete.— Peel and slice two raw 
new potatoes. Put into the chafing dish a 
heaping table-spoonful of beef dripping. When 
quite hot lay in the slices of potato ; when a 
delicate brown on one side turn each piece. 



POTATO DICE. 



37 



Potato Dice.— Cut raw potatoes into dice 
and cook them well in the chafing dish. Time 
for three potatoes ten minutes, stir to prevent 
burning. 

Mushrooms. — Remove all grit and peel a 
dozen freshly gathered mushrooms, remove 
the stems ; melt a tea-spoonful of butter in the 
chafing dish and before it gets too hot lift the 
dish off and put it on a plate. Cover the bot- 
tom of the dish with mushrooms ; on top of 
each mushroom put a bit of butter the size of 
a marble ; season each with a little salt and 
pepper. Return the dish to the flame, and 
cook three minutes. 

PuflP-balls.— At certain seasons puff-balls 
are found in profusion in the fieldsr«iid pas- 
tures. What surprises me is that so few peo- 
ple know that they are a most delightful, 
nutritious and wholesome fungi. They should 
be gathered when the inside is of a creamy 
white ; when touched with a streak of yellow, 
or are spongy they are too old. Peel them, 
cut them into thin slices and fry them in the 
chafing dish plain. They may be also stewed 
in the chafing dish. 

Green Peas.— When green peas become dry 
and old they require considerable cooking 
but when fresh and a beautiful green they re- 



38 



CANNED PEAS. 



quire but little cooking and this little is best 
accomplished in a chafing dish. After remov- 
ing them from the pods, put them in the chaf- 
ing dish. To a quart of peas add water 
enough to cover the bottom of the pan, say a 
little less than a pint ; the steam arising from 
the water cooks the peas and the heat from 
the alcohol flame is so intense that the peas 
are cooked so quickly they retain their delicate 
green color. Season with salt, white pepper, 
and be liberal with the best butter. 

Canned Peas.— Open the can, rinse off the 
peas with cold water, then simply warm them in 
the chafing dish ; longer cooking spoils them. 

Ohicken GaUosch. — Cut into dice two me- 
dium sized raw potatoes. Put into the chafing 
dish a table-spoonful of olive oil ; when hot 
add the potato, stir to prevent burning, and 
after five minutes cooking add, half a tea- 
spoonful of paprika, half a pint of hot water, 
a clove of garlic, half a pound of cold roast 
chicken cut into dice, half a salt-spoonful of 
salt; stir occasionally, cover while cooking 
and when the potatoes are done serve. 

Beef QalloBch.— Proceed as in the foregoing 
recipe, using half an onion instead of the clove 
of garlic, and flank steak cut small instead of 
chicken ; but it should be raw meat. 



PORK TENDERLOIN. 



39 



!Pork Tenderloin.— Fry an onion slightly 
in the chafing dish, with a table-spoonful of 
butter ; cut into dice a small pork tender- 
loin, add it to the dish and cook it thoroughly ; 
now add half a pint of gravy or broth, salt and 
cayenne to taste and two warm, boiled new 
potatoes cut into dice, cover and serve with a 
cucumber salad for breakfast or luncheon. 

The Mysteries of Welsh Babbits.— Every- 
body who has tasted a rightly composed Welsh 
rabbit likes it, but not every one dares to re- 
peat the indulgence because of the difficulty 
some people have of digesting it. 

I have discovered a simple method of mak- 
ing the dish digestible, and first made my dis- 
covery known through the culinary column of 
the New York Herald. 

The secret is to add paprika to the cheese. 

It may surprise the lover of Welsh rabbits 
to learn that by the addition of this simple 
condiment its indigestibility is overcome. 

The formula for making the digestible Welsh 
rabbit is as follows : — 

For a party of four grate a pound of what is 
known as " full cream American cheese ; " put 
into the chafing dish a " walnut " of butter ; as 
it melts stir it with a wooden spoon to grease 
the bottom of the dish, then add the grated 



40 YIHTUtS OF PAPRIKA. 



cheese. As the cheese melts, stir it, and add 
a table-spoonful of old American or imported 
ale. It will now begin to stick to the dish ; to 
prevent this, stir and gradually add spoonfuls 
of ale until the mixture is smooth and velvety 
in appearance. Stir into the cheese a table- 
spoonful of paprika ; mix well, and when of a 
creamy consistency put spoonfuls of it on hot, 
dry toast 

Hot plates are absolutely necessary. 

The amount of ale required varies according 
to the quality of the cheese, but about one and 
a half gills of ale is all that is required ; should 
this amount thin out the cheese too much, the 
mixture must be rapidly stirred to evaporate 
the unnecessary moisture. 



f 



j 



