
'^■^ ///J (^/ ///y . 



<^THE_^ 



f€apitaI-:-£ook-:-^ook^^ 



COMPILED FROM ORIGINAL AND TESTED RECIPES, 



■BY- 



/ 



MRS. MARTHA M. WILLIAMS. 




FRANK U. L-INK. 

MONROE OITY. IVIO. 

1S95. 



^%(>r■^^ 






COPYRIGHT, 1895, 

BY 

MRS. MARTHA M. WILLIAMS. 




Introduction. 



In presenting this book, it is given with a view to assisting 
the inexperienced, and also those who have already acquired the 
knowledge of cooking. There is always a desire on the part 
of housekeepers to excel in this part of their work, and there 
may be some suggestions that will aid them. By following the 
directions explicitly, the inexperienced sister will be enabled to 
have the culinary department of her home equal to those of the 
ladies who have had better advantages in this part of their train- 
ing. System is indispensable in everything in which we engage, 
and surely there is nothing more essential to the mothers and 
wives of our land, than to be excellent cooks, as no one objects 
to a well prepared meal. Believing that with these words of in- 
troduction The Capital Cook Book will commend itself to 
the consideration of the housekeepers, I am, 
Cordially Yours, 

Mrs. Martha M. Williams. 




VOc may lire u)itl|out poetry, music, anb art; 
Wc may lire untt^out conscience anb lioc mitl^out t^eart; 
We may line tuitl^out frienbs, wc may Iir>e n^itl^ont books, 
But cioilizeb man cannot lioc u)itl]out cooks. 

— Owen Meredith. 



Bread. 



Bread is said to be the staff of life, and is certainly the most 
essential article of food that the housewife prepares. Therefore 
it is necessary that the making of it receive the most careful at- 
tention. First, that whatever kind of bread is used most in the 
family be prepared without regard to time or trouble, as in not 
doing this, poor bread is sure to be the result. It is better to 
use several kinds of bread, and it is no more trouble to make one 
kind of bread than another. Most people tire of one kind of 
bread set before them from one week to another, and in taking 
from the following recipes for bread, we would ask you to fol- 
low the directions explicitly and you will certainly be pleased 
with the results. 



HO.ME MADE YEAST. 



3 Large Potatoes, 

1 Large Cup of White Sugar, 

2 Heaping Tablespoons of Salt, 
I Tablespoon of Flour, 

1 Cup of Yeast, 

2 Quarts of Water. 

I Teaspoon of Ginger. 
Directions — Grate the potatoes; -add the salt and sugar, 
flour and ginger, add on? cup of cold water. Beat smooth, then 
have the two quarts boiling hot and pour on, stirring all the 
time. It will look about like cooked starch. vVhen about cold 
add the cup of yeast, set in a warm place to rise; when light, if 
preferred, can work enough meal into it to mold out in cakes. 
It will keep some time in a cool place. 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



POTATO SPONGE FOR BREAD. 

Pare three good sized potatoes; they must be good mealy 
potatoes, for soggy ones will not make sponge fit for bread. Put 
them in a kettle and when done mash them and leave them in 
the water, having not more than a quart of water to cook them 
in; pass through a colander, put in the kettle again and heat; 
when hot pour over about one pint of flour and beat up well: af- 
ter it cools pour in one quart of lukewarm water and one cup of 
yeast after it has been soaked well; one good sized cake will be 
enough; one teaspoon of salt and one teaspoon of sugar, one- 
half teaspoon of ground ginger, enough flour to make a stiff bat- 
ter, keep in a warm place to rise. This amount will make six 
good loaves of bread. 



YEAST BREAD NO. 1. 



Use a large wooden bowl for making any kind of light 
bread, makfe a place in the center after sifting the flour in light- 
ly, add one heaping spoonful of salt, one of sugar and a small 
pinch of soda so as to insure no sour taste to your bread, add 
one quart of warm (not hot) water or milk, if milk is used it 
must be perfectly sweet, and a lump of lard the size of an egg; 
mix this well together and add one pint of good sponge, make it 
into soft dough and let rise till very light; then work in enough 
flour to make the dough rather stiff; knead for at least fifteen 
minutes and let rise again, when it is light this time make into 
small loaves and handle as little as possible; grease over the top 
with butter, and let rise till light and bake in a quick oven, just 
so it is not hot enough to burn the bread; bake for three-quarters 
of an hour. 



BREAD. 



YEAST BREAD NO, 'l. 



Take a mixing bowl and put what flour is needed to make 
the necessary amount that is wanted; make a hole in the center 
and put in your salt, about one teaspoon is needed for four good 
sized loaves; pour in about one pint of boiling water and stir 
with a spoon well to keep it from lumping; add cold water to 
cool about lukewarm, then add your yeast, one cup of yeast 
sponge will be enough for that amount of bread; cover over with 
flour and let rise light, then mix in enough flour to make a stiff 
dough; knead about ten minutes then mold into loaves and let 
rise again and bake in a rather quick oven; before sending to the 
oven grease all over the top with butter and again when remov- 
ed from the oven. 



GRANDMOTHER'S SALT RISING BREAD, 



One pint of water just as warm as the hand can bear; one 
teaspoon of salt, one heaping teaspoon of sugar; mix this to- 
gether; stir in as much flour as is needed to make it the same as 
pancake dough; set this bowl in hot water, as hot as the water 
first used; let it remain in the water, keeping it the same heat at 
least three hours, then thicken with flour again the same as it 
first was, for this rising will become thin in rising; it will be 
necessary usually for it to stand again as long as at first; some- 
times it will rise more rapidly than others; when ready to put in 
the mixing bowl scald one cup of flour and let it cool; mix the 
rising with it and water, add one teaspoon more of salt and a 
pinch of soda- dissolved in the warm water; make into a stiff 
dough and knead at least one-half an hour; make into loaves 
and let rise until light and bake in a moderate oven for one 
hour. 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



NO. 1 SALT RISING BREAD THAT NEVER FAILS 

Use two large tablespoons of meal, one-half teaspoon of 
salt, one teaspoon of sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, set the 
milk on the stove and let it come to the boiling point; scald 
the meal and sugar and salt with this, then let it set to rise 
till morning, then take one teaspoon of sugar, one of salt 
and one-half teaspoon of soda; scald these with one pint of hot 
water; after scalding cool with cold water till about lukewarm; 
add the lising that was made to rise over night and thicken with 
flour that has been set- in the oven till it is warm; add flour 
until it is a rather stiff batter; set in a kettle of hot water, as hot 
as you can bear your hand in comfortably; keep the water the 
same temperature; when light add about one tablespoon of 
sweet lard and as much flour as will make a stiff dough; mold 
into loaves and let rise till light and bake in a moderate oven. 
This bread is very white, and if kneaded enough will, when cut, 
resemble cake, it is so white. 



GOOD CREAM OF TARTAR BISCUITS. 



1 Pint of Sweet Milk, 

I Small Cup of Lard or Butter, 

1 Teaspoon of Soda, 

2 Teaspoons of Cream of Tartar, 

3 Pints of Flour, 

I Teaspoon of Salt. 
DiKKcTiONs — Sift one pint of flour with the cream of tartar 
two or three times; then sift the remainder of the flour into a 
mixing bowl; make a hole in the center; add the flour that has 
the cream of tartar in, and put in lard and salt and soda dis- 
solved in a little warm water; mix well; add the milk by degrees 
until all is used. Do not knead more than necessary; roll out 
about one inch thick, cut and bake in a moderate oven. 
These will be found very light. 



BREAD. 



LAZY BISCUITS. 



6 Cups of Flour, 

^ Cup of Lard, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

i^ Cup of Cold Water. 
Directions^ — Sift the flour and mix the lard thoroughly with 
it and add the salt and the water by degrees; mix as little as 
possible. It will look ragged but do not knead; roll and cut 
with a biscuit cutter and bake in a quick oven. They are nice 
when properly made. 



EXCELLENT BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

I Quart of Flour, 

3 Teaspoons of Baking Powder, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

^3 Cup of Lard and Butter, 

I Cup of Sweet Milk. 
Directions — Sift flour and baking powder together three 
times, also have the salt sifted in; have the butter and lard in 
equal parts and rub with the flour till it is well mixed; add the 
milk and make a soft dough; roll, cut, and bake in a quick oven. 
Any biscuit is nicer to roll the dough rather thin then turn to- 
gether and roll slightly again, then cut out and bake. 



FRIED CORN BREAD. 



Cut medium sized pieces of corn bread that is cold, if a lit- 
tle stale is better; put some butter in the frying pan and let it 
get hot; dip the bread in sweet milk or beaten egg, and fry till 
brown. Mashed apples, sweetened and put on top of the bread 
before sending to the table is an addition. 



10 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 

CREAM BISCUITS. 

I Pint of Sifted flour, 
I Cup of Cream, 

1 Teaspoon of Salt, 

2 Teaspoons of Baking Powder, 
I Teaspoon of Sugar, 

I Egg. 

Directions — Sift the flour and baking powders together; 
add the salt and sugar and the white of the egg beaten well; mix 
all well with a knife. Do not knead the dough much; roll and 
cut in small cakes; put in the oven and bake quickly. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 



4 Cups of Graham Flour, 
I Cup of Corn Meal, 
yi Cups of Molasses, 
I Teaspoon of Salt, 
I Tablespoon of Butter, 
3 Pints of Warm Water, 
I Teapoon of Soda. 

DiRiccTioNS — Sift corn meal and graham flour together; pour 
over this the water, and stir well together; add the molasses, 
butter and salt; dissolve soda in a little warm water; beat well 
and pour in a deep pan and bake slowly, and at least two hours. 
This bread is excellent. 



BREAD. 11 



LIGHT CORN BREAD. 



I Quart of Meal, 

I Cup of Flour, 

Yz Cup of Soft Yeast. 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

4 Tablespoons of Sugar, 

Yz Teaspoon of Soda. 
Directions — Sift flour and meal together, add the salt and 
sugar, next the yeast, and warm water enough to make a stiff 
batter; set to rise over night; add soda in the morning; mold 
with the hands into a deep pan in small loaves and set to rise 
again until light; wash over the top with milk; bake in a moder- 
ately warm oven until done; then remove and cover over for 
several minutes. 



RUSKS FOR BREAKFAST. 



Yz Pint of Milk, 

1 Teaspoon of Salt, 

2 Eggs, Y^ Tea Cup of Yeast, 
Yi, Pound Butter, 

Yz Pound Sugar, 

3 Pints of Flour, 

I Small Teaspoon of Soda. 

DiREciiONS — Warm the milk and add the salt, beaten yolks 
of the eggs and the two pints of flour and yeast and let rise over 
night. In the morning cream the butter with the sugar; add the 
beaten whites of the egos and the soda dissolved in a little warm 
water; mix into the sponge thoroughly with the hands; also mix 
the remaining pint of flour and set to rise; when light mold 
into rolls and put in a pan; when light prick with a fork and 
bake in a rather quick oven. 



12 I'IfE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



RICE GEMS. 



Take one pint of rice cooked very tender, one cup of flour, 
a small piece of butter, one teaspoon of salt, one egg beaten 
light, one cup of sweet milk, one-half teaspoon of soda and one 
teaspoon of cream of tartar; sift the cream of tartar in the cup 
of flour and soda dissolved in warm water. Bake in gem pans. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 



Take one quart of warm (not hot) water, one-half cup of soft 
yeast, two large tablespoons of molasses and two tablespoons of 
salt; mix with enough buckwheat flour to make a thick batter; 
set in a warm place to rise over night; next morning stir in a tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in a»tablespoon of hot water; stir this in 
on beginning breakfast, and let set at least a half hour in a warm 
place. When baked these cakes are delicious. Buckwheat 
cakes are fit to eat only just as they come from the griddle. 



TEA MUFFINS. 



Use one quart of flour, two heaping teaspoons of baking 
powder, sifted three times, two eggs well beaten, one tablespoon 
of melted butter, two cups of sweet milk, one teaspoon of sugar; 
Mix well and bake in muffin rings in a quick oven. 



APPLE PANCAKE. 

Take pan cake dough, or any light dough; have the apples 
chopped fine; to one quart of dough add about one large cup of 
the apples, one cup of white sugar, if the apples are sour; stir 
the dough each time any is put on the griddle. Bake quick and 
rather thin. 



BREAD. la 



CORN MUFFINS. 



One-half pint of flour, one pint of corn meal, one tablespoon 
of butter, one tablespoon of sugar; melt the butter; add two 
eggs and enough sweet milk to make a rather thin batter, one 
teaspoon of cream of tartar, sifted in the flour, and one-half tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in hot water. Bake in muffin rings in a 
quick oven. 



YEAST MUFFINS. 



Take a piece of light dough after it has been raised the second 
time; work in two tablespoons of butter, one-half cup of sugar, 
two eggs; add a teaspoon of salt and work all of this in the 
dough and put a small piece of dough in each muffin ring and 
let rise till very light and bake in a quick ovdn. 



WHITE HOUSE ROLLS. 



I Small Cup of Yeast, 
I Tablespoon of Sugar, 
I Small Piece of Lard. 
I Large Cup of Milk. 
I Teaspoon of Salt. 

Directions — Warm the milk slightly, (it must be sweet 
milk); put enough flour in the mixing bowl and add the sugar, 
salt and lard. Do not put in a piece of lard larger than an egg; 
then add the yeast and milk; and mix rather soft; let rise till 
very light. Now make stiff and let rise again; then mold with 
the hands and put in tins and raise till very light. Bake in a 
quick oven. 



14 THE CAPITAL COOK' BOOK. 

PULLED BREAD. 

Take any kind of light bread after it is baked; while it is 
warm pull it to pieces, about as large as a biscuits; put back in 
the oven and brown nicely and eat warm with butter and thin 
slices of cheese and celery. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 



3 Cups of Corn Meal, 

2 Cups of Graham Flour, 

I Heaping Teaspoon of Soda, 

I Teaspoon of Salt. 

Yz Cup of Molasses, 

I Cup of Cold Water. 

Directions — Sift meal and Graham together; add molasses 
and water, and soda dissolved in a little hot water; then the salt; 
and mix well. Butter a pan; set in a steamer and steam five 
hours; then set in the oven about twenty minutes, or long 
enough to brown slightly. 



GRAHAM GEMS, 



lYz Cup of Sour Milk, 

I Tablespoon of White Sugar, 

I Teaspoon of Soda, 

3 Cups of Graham Flour, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

I Egg. 
Directions — Put the milk in a pan, and add the egg after 
it has been beaten; add sugar, salt and soda next; sift the Gra- 
ham in. It will seem a little stiff, but must not add any more 
milk. Have gem tins very hot, and bake in a quick oven. 



BREAD. 15 



DELICIOUS MUFFINS. 



I Large Tablespoon of Butter, 

5 Eggs, 

I Quart of Sweet Milk, 

I Quart of Flour, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

I Tablespoon of Sugar. 

Directions — Beat the eggs separately; add the butter to 
the yolks; beat well, then add milk and flour alternately; then 
add the salt and sugar, and whites of eggs whipped in lightly. 
Have the pan hot and greased slightly. Have the oven hot and 
bake quickly. Eat immediately, after done. 



CORN FRITTERS. 



y. Cup of Milk, 

I Cup of Flour, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

i^ Teaspoon Pepper, 

I Tablespoon of Melted Butter, 

I Can of Corn. 

Directions — Beat an egg light and add one-half cup of 
milk; pour this mixture upon one cup of flour, and beat well; 
then add one teaspoon of salt, one-fourth teaspoon of pepper, 
and a tablespoon of melted butter; mix and add one-half 
can of corn; drop by spoonfuls into boiling lard. Cook three 
minutes. 



10 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



OAT MEAL CAKES. 



Use a quart of cooked oat meal; take enough warm water to 
moisten it; add about one pint of sour milk, and one teaspoon 
heaping full of soda dissolved in warm water; add two eggs 
beaten light, two large cups of flour, to make them more easily 
turned; add one teaspoon of salt. They are very nice, and a 
change from the other kinds of bread for breakfast. 



GRAHAM PANCAKES. 



Two cups of Graham flour, and one of wheat flour; sift 
these together; then add enough sour milk to make an ordinary 
batter; whip one egg light, and add; and one teaspoon of salt, 
one teaspoon of soda, first dissolved in warm water; mix all well 
together, and bake on a hot griddle and serve immediately with 
butter and syrup. 



LIGHT MUFFINS. 



1 Pint of Flour, 

Yz Teaspoon of Salt, 

2 Ounces of Butter, 
Yn Cup of Yeast, 

1 Large Cup Sweet Milk, 

2 Eggs. 

Directions — Sift the flour; rub butter and flour together; 
add salt, yeast and eggs. Beat eggs separately, until very light; 
stir in the milk last, having it slightly warm; beat and set to rise. 
Let raise until verj' light. Bake in muffin rings. 



BREAD. 17 



KENTUCKY DODGERS. 



2 Cups of Sour Cream, 
I Cup of Sweet Milk, 

1 Egg, 

2 Teaspoons of Butter, 

1 Teaspoon of salt, 

2 Small Teaspoons of Soda. 

Directions- — Sift the meal and beat the eggs well; dissolve 
the soda in sour cream; add the sweet milk to this, also the salt 
and butter; stir enough meal in so that a spoonful will keep in 
shape without spreading in the pan. Bake in a quick oven un- 
til a rich brown. Serve very hot. 



OLD FASHIONED CORN CAKE. 



I Egg, 

1 Small Teaspoon of Soda, 

2 Cups of Sour Milk. 
2 Cups of Meal, 

Yz Teacup of Flour, 
y^ Teaspoon of Salt. 

Directions — Sift the meal and beat the eggs until very light; 
dissolve soda in the milk; mix flour with the meal and sift in 
lightly; add egg and salt. The batter will be thin. Put two 
small spoonfuls in a cake, and bake quick; to be eaten while 
warm. The cakes must not be thicker than one-eighth of an 
inch. 



18 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



GRAHAM WAFERS. 



1 Teaspoon of Salt, 
Yz Pound of Graham Flour, 
J4 Pint of Sweet Cream, 
I Teaspoon of Sugar. 

Directions — Mix quickly and thoroughly; roll and cut as 
thin as possible; cut in strips; prick and bake in a quick oven. 



CREAM CRACKERS. 



1 Quart of Flour, 

y^ Teaspoon of Salt, 

2 Tablespoons of Sugar, 

I Teaspoon of Baking Powder, 
4 Tablespoons of Butter, 

3 Eggs, Whites Only. 

Directions — Sift flour and baking powder and put in 
a mixing bowl; add butter and eggs, after beating them light; 
add the salt; make up stiff, and knead rapidly; roll and cut. 
Cut with a square cutter; drop in a kettle of boiling water for 
five minutes; skim out and put in a colander to drain; then put 
them in a greased tin and bake in a hot oven, but do not let 
them brown too much. 



LIGHT CRACKERS, 

>4 Pint of Light Dough, 

% Cup of Butter. 
Directions — Add butter to the dough, and mix well to- 
gether; divide the dough into several parts; roll thin and cut in 
squares; prick with a fork; let rise again and bake a pale brown. 



BREAD. \ !) 



TOMATO TOAST. 

Toast bread and lay on a platter, and stew some tomatoes 
till well done, and season with pepper and salt; when done add 
cream with a little flour; let it cook, then pour over the slices of 
toast, and serve at once. 



GERMAN TOAST. 



Cut five hard boiled eggs in thin slices; put a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg in a sauce pan; when hot add some finely 
chopped onion; cook till tender, but do not let it brown; then 
add a little flour, and a cup of milk; let cook till it thickens then 
pour over the toast and put the slices of the eggs around and 
serve. 



FRENCH TOAST. 



Yz Dozen Slices of Stale Bread, 

2 Eggs, 

I Cup of Cream, 

I Cup of Lard, 

I Pinch of Salt and Pepper. 

Directions — First dip in the cream, then in the beaten egg; 
have the lard hot; put in a sufficient number of slices that will 
be easily managed, for if crowded it will be sure not to brown. 
vVhen brown on both sides, put on a hot plate and serve at 
once. Sprinkle sugar over, if desired, or some good jell. Put 
over in thin slices. 



20 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



HAM ON TOAST. 

Boil the ham until very tender, then chop fine and add two 
well beaten eggs, some butter and a little pepper and salt; put 
in a sauce pan and cook till it thickens; then pour over the 
toast. Serve hot. 



BIRDS ON TOAST. 



Cook the birds till very tender; bake them till nice brown; 
cut in pieces and put on the slices of toast; make a gravy and 
pour over. Serve at once. 



BUTTERED TOAST. 



Toast several slices of stale biead; first dip in warm (not 
hot) water; lay on a platter and butter it well, and cover over 
and set in the oven a few moments, and serve while very hot. 



CREAM TOAST. 



Toast any number of slices of bread desired; have ready a 
dressing prepared as follows: Take one cup of milk and one of 
cream, a piece of butter the size of an egg; salt slightly; heat it 
almost to a boiling point and pour over the toast in a deep dish. 
Keep covered till ready to serve. 



BREAD. 21 



CHEESE TOAST. 

Toast some slices of bread and butter them; grate some 
cheese over; put a spoonful of cheese to each slice of bread; set 
in the oven and let remain a few minutes. Serve while hot. 



TOMATOES ON TOAST. 



Use only very ripe tomatoes; after removing the peel mash 
and press through a colander; put in a pan and season as usual; 
cook fifteen minutes; take some stale slices of bread and toast 
a golden brown, and place on a platter; butter each slice; pour 
over the mixture and send to the table immediately. 



JOHNNY CAKE, 



I Cup of Sour Milk, 
Yz Teaspoon of Salt, 
1/2 Teaspoon of Soda, 

1 Tablespoon of Butter, 

2 Eggs, 

Y-z Cup of Fluur, 
]/{ Cup of Sugar, 
I Cup of Corn Meal. 

Directions — Sift flour, salt, sugar and meal together, and 
rub the butter through them; then beat the eggs; add the milk, 
after dissolving the soda in the milk; mix well and bake in a 
shallow tin; cut with a knife dipped in hot water or laid on a 
stove until hot. 



THE CAPl'JAL COOK BOOK. 



TO MAKE NICE BUNS. 



I Cup of Milk, 
I Cup of Sugar, 
^ Cup of Yeast, 
Yo Cup of Butter. 

DiREcnoNs — Mix all the ingredients together and make a 
stiff dough at night; in the morning add the butter, let rise again 
and mold and cut with a cutter, and put in a pan and let rise 
again. When very light bake in a moderate oven and on re- 
moving from oven, brush over with milk and sugar. 



RECIPE FOR BAKING POWDERS. 

Y Pound of Tartaric Acid, 

Y Pound of Soda, 
I Pint of Flour. 

Sift all together six times; then put in cans and keep air 
tight. This is a good baking powder, and will keep a long 
time. 



ME A TS. 23 



Meats. 



TO BOIL HAM. 



A ham weighing ten or twelve pounds will require to be 
soaked at least twelve hours; then remove and put in a kettle, 
and pour enough boiling water to cover it; add some vinegar, 
about one-half cup to a ham of that size; boil steadily for about 
three hours. Try with a fork to ascertain if well done, as some 
are more tender than others; remove from the water in which it 
has been cooked, after it is cold, as it makes any kind of meat 
more firm to cool in the liquor in which they have been cooked. 



TO BAKE A HAM. 



Choose a ham weighing not more than eight pounds; make 
a plain crust; roll, cut and put the ham in, just the same as you 
would make dumplings; fold the crust over and put in a pan; 
set in the oven and bake one hour for every pound of ham; cover 
over close when baking. When done remove the crust and 
sprinkle with sugar and melted butter together; set in the oven 
and bake one hour slowly; then take up and put in something 
that a cover can be put on, and put a weight over it. When 
cold it will cut in nice slices.' 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO COOK VENISON HAM. 



After trimming the ham nicely, put in a baking pan;put thin 
slices of bacon over it, and some slices of onioiis, and some 
spices and thyme. A cup of good wine added to the water in 
which it is cooked improves it, and it cooks more easily. The 
wine must be sour. Cover closely, and when nearly done 
remove the cover and let it brown slightly and it will be ready 
to serve. For a common sized ham it will take from two to two 
and a half hours to cook. Serve with the gravy put around it, 
also the onions. 



PORK CROQUETTES. 



I Pint of Meat, 

1 Tablespoon Butter, 

2 Eggs, 

I Onion, , 

)'2 Cup of Bread Crumbs, 
y^ Tablespoon of Salt, 
y Teaspoon of Pepper, 
I Teacup Hot Water. 

Directions — Chop meat fine; add melted butter; next the 
bread crumbs and beaten eggs, salt and onions chopped fine; 
add the water and cook till all is well mixed; then pour into a 
pan to cool them; roll into balls; dip m egg and then in crackers. 
Fry a good brown. 



ME A rs. 25 



BEEF STEAK FINGERS. 



2 Pounds of Steak, 

I Pint of Hot Water, 

I Egg, 

I Onion, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

)4 Teaspoon of Pepper, 

3 Crackers. 

Directions — -Pound the steak and put in a frying pan and 
cover with the water, add salt and pepper and cook slowly for 
an hour. If the steak is very tender it need not cook so long; 
when done remove and have the egg beaten; cut in slices and 
dip in the egg, then in crackers, after rolling them fine; fry in 
hot fat until nicely browned. Nice served with mashed potatoes. 
Make a gravy to be eaten with it. Nice with lemons sliced thin 
to garnish with. 



VFAL LOAF. 



3 Pounds of Veal, 

2 Cups of Bread Crumbs, 

I Small Cup of Meat Broth, 

1 Lemon, 

y^ Teaspoon of Pepper, 

2 Eggs, 

y^ Teaspoon of Salt, 
i^ Teaspoon of Mace. 

Directions — Boil the veal tender; chop fine and add the 
meat broth; then the eggs beaten stiff, and the juice of the 
lemon; now the mace, pepper and salt; mix well and press into 
a loaf and put in a bread pan and cover and bake till a nice 
brown; remove and let cool and slice thin and serve between 
buttered bread as sandwiches. 



3() THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



PIGS' BRAINS, FRIED. 



Brains from 3 Pigs, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

y^ Teaspoon of Pepper, 

I Egg, 

3 Crackers. 

DiRFXTiONS — Put brains in salt water over night, and 
when ready to fry, drain well; sprinkle with pepper; roll crackers 
fine (or use cracker meal); beat the eggs well; first dip the 
brains in the egg, then in crackers; fry in hot grease until a rich 
brown. Are very nice to serve with toast for breakfast with 
tomato sauce. 



PIGS' FEET, FRIED. 



4 Feet, 

I Egg, 

I Tablespoon of Salt, 

4 Crackers. 

DiRECTiuN-s — Cook the feet until well done. They can be 
kept whole by tying them up in a thin cloth. After they are 
well done remove from the cloth and split in two pieces; dip in 
the beaten egg, then in the crackers, after it has been rolled 
fine; fry in hot grease until brown. Serve with any good sauce 
that is preferred. 



MEA TS. 



HAMBURG STEAK. 



I Pound of Raw Beef, 
I Small Onion, 
I Small Piece of Beef Suet, 
yi. Teaspoon of Pepper, 
I Teaspoon of Salt. 

Directions — Chop beef, onion and suet very fine and mix 
with the meat; make into cakes and roll in flour;, fry in butter 
till done, and a delicate brown. Serve with sauce. 



TO COOK A ROAST OF MUTTON. 

Take five pounds of the leg of a mutton and put in a baking 
pan; put a small amount of water on and peel some 
onionsand putaround the meat; (some prefer carrots or potatoes) 
put plenty of flour over the meat, also pepper and salt; cover 
the pan and set it in the oven; cook till well done, then remove 
to a platter and garnish with the onions and some sprigs of 
parsley. 



VEAL SAUSAGE. 



Chop some veal in a chopping bowl, season with sage, salt 
and pepper and when all is mixed well, make into little cakes 
and dip in beaten egg and cracker meal and fry a golden brown. 
These are excellent. If the meat seems too dry add a little warm 
water. 



•■IH ///A' CAPITAL COOK' BOOK. 



HEEF LIVER, FHIKD. 

After washing' tin- liver, cut in slices one-half of an inch 
thick; put a liberal sized i)iece of butter and some lard in a fry- 
inj; pan antl let it j^et smoking hot and roll the pieces of liver in 
powdi'red crackers; then put in the pan and fry very fast, but do 
not let it burn. When a nic(' brown on both sides, put on a 
platter anti cover over and put some thinly sliced onions in the 
f^rease and fry till brown and {tarnish the liver with them. A 
^ravy can be made from some beef drippings and poured over 
this, or if liked, tlie j^ravy can be omitted — is very nice eitlier 
way. 



TO VIAKE (iOOU SAUSAGE. 

Use the tend'jrloin of a hoij, it is much better tlian beef, as 
beef is dry and scarcely ever tender; cut in strips and grind 
very fine; mix by adding salt and ]U'pper, bth black and 
cay nine; add sage to taste. If it seems too tlry, add some warm 
water, but it is better if the meat, after grinding, seems too dry 
within itself, to make a tea of the pepper insteail of putting the 
dr}' powder in the meat, and if wanti'd to keej) a considerable 
length of tinu', will keep bettir than putting water alone in. 
When mixed put in sacks and hang in a dry, cool place 



IJAKKI) SAUSAGE. * 

Make some sausage into cakes and dip into bread crumbs 
aftir dipping them in egg; put in a greased pan; set in the oven 
and cook till well done and serve with cream gravy. 



I\IEA'J'S. • ;>i) 



SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Use any good fresh sausage, pork is the best, but must not 
be too fat; make a puff paste; make tlie sausage in rolls about 
three inches long, and one inch around; roll the paste not more 
than one-third of an inch thick, put the sausage in; roll over 
and wet the edges of the crust to prevent opening; brush over 
with sweet milk; put in rather a deep pan and put in the oven 
and cook till done, and a light brown. These are nice either 
cold or hot. The addition of some meat jelly to any of the 
patties or pies is an addition, as they will not seem dry and 
tasteless, if not used in several days after making, if the 
weather is cool enough to keep them nicely, 

DiKKC'i IONS KOK 111 I', Jkij.v — Put beef or any kind of meat 
bones on with enough hot water and cook for several hours; let 
cool and you will have a nice jelly and is no trouble, as it needs 
no attention, only to put it on to cook. 



TO STEW LIVER. 



Cut in rather thick slices and put in salt water for two hours 
before putting on to cook; then cook till it is very tender and 
serve with any good gravy that is liked. 



TO FRY LIVER AS CUTLETS. 

Allow two eggs to every pound of liver; cut the liver thin 
and scald it, let drain, or if needed immediately, wipe dry with 
a cloth; salt it, and beat eggs well, and dip each piece in the 
egg and then in powdered cracker, or meal is very nice. Fry 
till brown. Serve with tomato sauce. 



no THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



PORK CHOPS. 

Trim, and have them about an incli thick; salt and put in a 
frying pan with some fat, and fry a nice brown, and till they are 
well done; put on a platter, and chop some onion fine; add some 
sage and pepper; let cook a few minutes in the gravy and pour 
around the chops. 



HOW TO UTILIZE COLD MEATS. 

Cold meat of any kind; put in a kettle and cook thoroughly 
done, in as little water as not to let it burn; let it cool, keeping 
it covered closely while cooling; after it is cold put in a chop- 
ping bowl and chop fine and season with salt, pepper, and a little 
sage, if liked; put in a crock and cover over and put a weight on, 
and the next day it will be ready to slice; have the slices about 
one-fourth of an inch thick; dip in a beaten egg, then cracker 
meal, and fry in hot grease till a nice brown and serve with 
baked apples. 



TO BAKE A HEART. 



Take a beef heart and do not wash it, but dr}' with a cloth; 
make a stuffing of bread crumbs, sage, some butter, pepper and 
salt; mix and moisten with water enough to make it the right 
consistency; then fill the cavities of the heart; bake Avith enough 
water in the pan to baste it with. It will require about three 
hours for a common sized heart to bake tender. Make a gravy 
and pour around the heart on a platter. Serve with any good 
tart jell. 



ME A TS. 31 



PORK. 



The sirloin of pork for chops and roasts; the hind leg for 
roasts and smoked hams; the fore luin is used for second choice 
roasts and chops; the back furnishes inferior roasts and for 
boiling, also is used for corning; the shoulder is used mostly for 
pickling and smoking; the head is used to make head cheese and 
mince meat; the feet mostly for pickling. 



BEEF. 



The fore ribs makes a very nice roast, and the middle ribs 
also; choose the brisket pieces for soups. The neck makes nice 
soup, and is used for mince meat and sausage; shoulder is used 
for roasts, stews and hash. The hind quarter contains the 
porter house and sirloin steak, also the finest roasts is taken 
from the hind quarters of the beef. Different parts of it is used 
for stews, hash and soups; the thick part of the flank for corned 
beef; the veiney part for dried beef; the thin part of the flank 
for corned beef and boiling. The tongue is used boiled, fresh, 
smoked or pickled. The heart is very nice stuffed and baked. 
The liver is sometimes fried; and suet makes a nice pie crust 
and is used in pudding and mince meat. 



MUTTON. 

The loin is used for roasting and chops. The leg is mostly 
used for chops, sometimes for boiling; the loin second choice for 
chops; the loin rump end for boiling and roasts. Breast is used 
for stews. Mutton is best from sheep not too old, three years 
old makes the nicest meat, but if fat some older will do. Very 
young sheep do not make as good flavored meat, as it seems 
tasteless and is flabby. 



32 THE CAPITAI COOK BOOK. 



BOILED PIGS' FEET, PICKLED 



Clean and scrape the feet well, enclose each one In a thin 
muslin cloth and put in boiling water; salt it not quite as salt as 
you would other meat; when done put in vinegar, and after re- 
maining several days they will be ready for use. Do not have the 
vinegar too strong as it will spoil them. If the vinegar is very 
strong dilute it some with water before putting the feet in. 



BOILED TONGUE. 



The tongue should be soaked in weak salt water for several 
hours previous to cooking; then cook till very tender; after re- 
moving from the stove, put in cold water and the outer skin 
can easily be removed; lay on a platter, and with a sharp knife 
gash across in checks or diamonds. Serve with veal jelly. 



TO MAKE GOOD MEAT JELLY, 



The shank bones of beef are best for making this jelly; put 
to cook in a liberal amount of v/ater and cook till thoroughly 
done; remove the meat and strain the liquor into a flat pan and 
when cold will cut like any other jell. Is nice for cold meats. 
Chicken can be cooked in the same way and jelly obtained from 
it also. Salt and pepper the meat while cooking. 



ME A TS. 3a 



BROILING 



To broil any kind of meat it is necessary to have a very hot 
fire, or plenty of live coals at least, and a good gridiron is in- 
dispensible and should be kept scrupuously clean; have the iron 
well greased, and v:-ry hot b-^fore putting the meat on; turn it 
frequently, but do not stick a fork in the meat while broiling, as 
this causes the juice to leave the meat. Some dip the meat in 
melted fat before putting on to broil, but this is not necessary. 
Do not salt and pepper the meat till it is cooked. Serve this 
hot, on hot plates. 



TO BOIL MUTTON. 

Choose a rather lean piece to boil, as mutton is not good if 
very fat; put to boil in soft water, slightly salted, but do not put 
as much salt in at first as is needed to season the meat, as this 
prevents meat from cooking in as short a time as it will to wait 
till it is half done at least. Cook till very tender; remove and 
keep covered till it is thoroughly cold. 



TO COOK SPARE RIBS. 



After the ribs have been cracked across and cut apart, 
leaving not more than two ribs together; salt and rub some flour 
and butter together and put the ribs in a baking pan; baste with 
the butter and flour and keep covered closely, and do not put 
only about one-half pint of water over them when putting in to 
bake; baste often with the flour and butter while cooking, as 
this will insure a nicely cooked spare rib. 



THE CAFITAI. COOK BOOK 



A GOOD MINT SAUCE. 



Take any amount of green mint required and chop till very 
fine; then add some sugar and good cider vinegar; let it stand 
several days and it is ready for use. It is used with meats, and 
is preferred by some to any other sauce with mutton. 



TO BROIL HAM. 



Cut in rather thick slices and remove all the fat; have the 
fire very hot and put your ham over to broil; turn often and 
when done sufficiently lay on a platter and put a liberal piece of 
butter on each piece of ham. Serve at once. 



TO FRY PORK IN BATTER. 



Cut the meat in slices and salt and pepper it; make a batter 
as for pancakes; dip each slice of meat in the batter, then in 
cracker crumbs; fry in very hot grease till well done. Serve 
with tomato sauce or chopped pickles, or mustard if preferred. 



PIGS' FEET CHEESE. 



Cook the feet till very tender; remove all of the bones and 
season with salt and pepper, and a small amount of allspice; 
pack in a crock and put a lieavy weight on; let terrain several 
days before using. Serve sliced in vinegar. 



ME A 7^S. 35 



TO FRY FROG LEGS. 

Cover the legs with boiling water; then after remaining in 
the water for half an hour remove^ to cold water and let them re- 
main in this for a few minutes; then put a spider on and put in a 
piece of butter and let it get hot; put the legs in after dipping 
them in flour; fry until a crisp brown; arrange them nicely in a 
dish and garnish with slices of tomatoes fried in butter and 
some small squares of toast on the slices of tomatoes. 



TO ROAST BEEF. 



Take any amount of beef that is required and salt and 
pepper it and dredge well with flour; put in a baking pan and 
set in the oven and cover closely; do not put very much water 
in at a time; baste often and only add water as it is needed; 
when well done take upon a platter and garnish with cranberry 
sauce, put around it by spoonfuls a little ways apart. It looks 
very pretty if pickles is preferred to garnish with; slice them 
very thin and put around the meat. Any kind of gravy can be 
used to serve with roast beef that is preferred. 



TO FRY HAM. 



If the ham is smoked slice it about one-fourth of an inch 
thick; have a skillet ready and moderately hot; put in enough 
grease to keep the ham from sticking; then put in and fry very 
slow until the meet is cooked sufficient; then fry fast till it 
browns nicely; remove to a platter and pour some cream in the 
grease and pour over the meat and serve. 



3() THE CAPI'lAL COOK BOOK. 



TO V\<\ BEEF STEAK, NO. 1, 

Choose porter house steak if a nice, tender steak is wanted; 
pound or chop it well; have a frying pan ready with some butter 
in it, and have it smoking hot. Before putting the steak in salt 
and pepper it and fry very fast; then take up and put some 
butter over each piece of steak; cover closely for a few minutes 
— keeping the platter in a warm place, and it is ready to serve. 



ANOTHER WAY TO FRY STEAK. 

Pound the beef as in No. i. and pepper and salt it; dip in 
flour or powdered cracker; have the pan with a little more butter 
in than for the other way; heat it till very hot and put the 
steak in and cover; fry fast till a crisp brown; put on a platter; 
make a brown gravy and pour over the steak. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 



POULl'KY AND GAME. 



37 



Poultry and Game- 



TO KILL A FOWL. 



' The best way is to hang them up, and cut off the head, as 
in this way they bleed more freely. The best way to pick a 
fowl is to remove the feathers without scalding. A turkey, duck 
or goose should never be scalde.d. Pick carefully so as not to 
break the skin. To draw the crop split the skin of all poultry 
on the back of the neck when wished to be dressed whole. 
After splitting the skin pull the neck upwards, cut the neck off 
close to the body, leaving a skewer in the back of the neck after 
the dressing has been put in. Tn drawing the entrails be very 
careful not to break the gall, as it is very hard to wash off. Cut 
the gizzard open and remove the inner skin and wash it well. 
Some good cooks prefer not to put any water on poultry, but 
dry all the blood off on a cloth, but properly cooked, this part is 
immaterial as to how it is done. Any kind of a fowl should not 
lay in water very long or it will make it tasteless, but some dark 
meat is improved somewhat by treating in this way, but do 
not let it remain in water too long. 



:{.S THE CAI'IIAL COOK BOOK. 



CHICKEN CROyUETTES. 



2 Cups of Chopped Meat, Chicken or Turkey, 
i^ Cup of Melted Butter, 

Yi Pint of Sweet Cream, 

3 Tablespoons of Good Wine, 
A Very Little Nutmeg, 

3 Tablespoons of Flour, 
A Little Salt and Pepper, 
Juice of One-half a Lemon, 
]4^ Pint of Chicken Soup, 
Yi^ Pint of Mashed Potatoes, 
I Cup of Rolled Crackers. 

Directions — Chop the chicken and add salt, pepper, nutmeg 
and lemon juice and the wine last; put the cream, flour and 
butter in a sauce pan and cook till it thickens; pour over the 
other on a platter and let cool; whip an egg; roll and cut in 
cone shapes; dip in egg then in the rolled crackers; cook in 
boiling lard, a few at a time. They are very nice. 



CHICKEN A La CREME. 



Clean and wash a nice fat chicken and cut it up nicely; stew 
very tender, then make a thickening of cream and flour, seasoned 
with pepper, salt and butter; have ready two cakes made 
from pie crust, rolled thin and cut in squares and baked; lay the 
crusts- on a dish and put the chicken and gravy over them. 
Serve while hot. 



PO UL TK y AND GAME. 39 



ESCALOPED CHICKEN. 



I Chicken, 

I Dozen Crackers, 

yi Cup Butter, 

y^ Cup of Sweet Cream, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

I Pinch of Pepper, 

^ Dozen fresh Oysters, 

I Teaspoon of Lemon Juice. 

Directions — Salt and boil the chicken very tender and re- 
move from the bone and chop the meat; butter a baking dish 
and put a layer of the chopped chicken in the bottom, then 
some bits of butter, and moisten with cream; then a layer of 
chicken and a few drops of lemon juice, and crackers and chicken 
next. Put crackers and butter on top and bake in a hot oven. 



BARBECUED RABBIT. 



Take a nice, fat rabbit and grease well; rub with butter, 
pepper and salt; lay on a gridiron; turn often till well done, then 
remove to a pan with plenty of butter; set in a hot oven for a 
few minutes. Serve with the following sauce: 

Directions for Sauce — 
3 Tablespoons of Vinegar, 

1 Teaspoon of Mustard, 

2 Tablespoons of Jelly, 

I Tablespoonful of Lemon Juice. 
Mix these well together and pour over the rabbit and serve. 



40 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



FRIED CHICKEN. 



Choose a medium sized chicken after it has been nicely 
dressed; lay in salt water for an hour, then wipe dry and have 
the grease hot; roll in flour and fry slowly until a rich brown and 
lay on a platter and serve. Garnish with small potato balls. 



BROILED PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 



Prepare for cooking and put in a steamer; set over hot 
water until tender; rub with salt and pepper; lay on a gridiron 
over good bright coals. When a nice brown take up and cover 
with melted butter and set in a hot oven for a few minutes. 
Serve with currant jelly. 



PARTRIDGE FRICASSEE. 



Prepare as if you were going to boil them; put in a sauce 
pan and cover with hot water and cook until tender. Thicken 
the gravy with a little flour and some butter rubbed into it; 
season to laste with some pepper and salt; toast some slices of 
bread very nice; put on a hot dish and pour the fricassee over 
and serve very hot. This is a very nice dish. 



PO UL 7^K y AND GAME. 41 



BAKED PARTRIDGES. 

Split the birds in the back; take a can of fresh oysters; 
make a dressing with the oysters and bread crumbs, some butter 
and sage; fill in and sew the bird up; fill as many as needed and 
put in a baking pan with a little hot water and butter; cook 
until well done. Serve with mushroom sauce. Garnish with 
slices of lemon. 



LARDED RABBIT. 



Cut the ribs from the rabbit and put in a baking pan; cut 
thin slices of bacon; bake until very tender; put on a platter and 
serve with brown sauce. 



CHAUD FROID CHICKEN. 



1 Roasted Chicken, 

2 Tablespoons of Butter, 
I Tablespoon of Flour, 

I Pint of milk, 

I Teaspoon of Salt, 

^ Teaspoon of Pepper. 

Directions — Roast the chicken tender and remove the skin; 
cut in nice pieces; put a pan on and melt the butter; add flour, 
salt and pepper, then the milk; boil until it thickens and pour 
over the chicken. Garnish with parsley. 



42 THE CAPn\4L COOK BOOK. 



STUFFED QUAILS 

4 Birds, 

1 Quart of Water, 

3 Cups of Bread Crumbs, 
Yz Cup of Sweet Cream, 

2 Tablespoons of Butter, 

I Pinch of Salt and Pepper. • 

Directions — Choose nice fat quails and sprinkle a little salt 
in each. For the stuiifing use the butter and bread crumbs; 
cream salt and pepper, and mix all well together; stuff the birds 
well and fasten down the legs; put in a baking pan and dredge 
each one in flour; cut some butter over them; add the water and 
cook in a hot oven till well done; baste often. After removing 
from oven lay on a platter and put some gravy over them. 



TO KOAST TURKEY. 



After picking and drawing the turkey, put it in a steamer or 
anything it can be cooked in. A patent cooker is good, as they 
can be steamed until done; then remove and bake in the oven; 
have the dressing ready and fill and put in the pan around the 
turkey. A nice dressing can be made as follows: Take equal 
parts of bread crumbs and crackers; mix with some of the broth 
from the turkey and one whole egg; season with sage, thyme, 
pepper and salt. Some like oysters added, but it is quite nice 
without. Do not have the dressing made too dry, that spoils the 
taste as well as looks of any dressing. Serve with cranberry 
sauce. 



PO UL TK \ ' AND GAME. 43 



CURRIED CHICKEN 

Roast a young chicken till very tender and cut in pieces; put 
three tablespoons of butter and one tablespoon of curry powder 
in a skillet; and one large onion; chop fine and let it brown 
slightly; then add one tablespoon of flour and stir well; add one 
cup of chicken broth, and one-half cup of sweet milk; season 
with pepper and salt, if it is not quite salt enough; cook till it 
thickens, then put the chicken on a platter and pour this around 
it. Serve at once. 



TO ROAST A GOOSE. 



After preparing to cook, make a dressing as usual; 
season with salt, pepper, some sage and butter, one egg and 
enough water to make the quantity desired damp enough; pro- 
ceed to fill the goose, and fasten by using a strong thread or 
twine; put in a roaster and bake two hours, if not too old, but if 
it is, will require about three hours to bake. Do not put in any 
more water than is needed, if it is covered closely it will not 
require much water to bake it. Serve with mashed potatoes 
made in balls, and melted butter poured over them, and set in 
the oven till they are a nice brown; put them around the goose 
on the platter on which it is served; and make a gravy to serve 
with it also. A goose baked in this way is excellent. 



44 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO BROIL BIRDS. 

First after dressing them split i\\~n\\ open in the back and 
let them lay awhile in salt water; melt some butter in a pan and 
wipe the birds dry with a cloth; dip them in metled butter; then 
lay on a gridiron over a clear fire; after browning on one side 
turn and have both sides a golden brown; put on plates and put 
some small pieces of butter over them and pepper; cover closely 
and set in the oven a few minutes, then they are ready to serve. 



CHICKEN JELLY. 

Dress and joint a good sized chicken and put to cook with 
half gallon of cold water; season; remove all the fat and cook 
slowly till only one pint remains; press through a colander and 
if any fat appears skim it off. Serve cold. The chicken must 
be young, if not more water will have to be added in order to 
cook it sufficiently. This jelly is often used to garnish meats 
with, and is very nice. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



45 




Fish and Oysters. 



TO BROIL FISH 



Fish is very nice broiled. First, salt the fish that is to be 
broiled and dip in some oil, which is better for fish than butter; 
put over the fire and watch them closely, as they brown very 
easily. They require more attention in broiling than anything 
else, as if not done thoroughly through are not good. It takes 
a longer time to broil fish than any other meat. Serve with any 
sauce that is liked. 



FISH FORCE MEAT. 



Take one pound of any good fresh fish and remove the 
bones; pound it well; then add the whites of two eggs, a little at 
a time; then add one pint of good cream, one teaspoon of salt 
and a pinch of pepper. Mix well and it is ready for use. 



4(5 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



A GOOD \YAY TO BOIL FISH. 

Clean fish and put in boiling water that has been salted; 
allow it to boil ten minutes or longer to every pound offish; 
after it has been cooked a while add a spoonful of vinegar or 
lemon juice: (use a teaspoon to measure); when done remove to 
a platter; pour over some melted butter. Serve at once. 



BAKED WHITE FISH 



Clean the fish well and salt and fill with a good dressing; 
sew the fish up and place in baking pan; allow one and a half pints 
of hot water to a medium sized fish. Before putting the fish in 
the oven to bake rub well with flour and bake in a quick oven; 
requires about one hour if not too large. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 



TROUT ENPAPILLOTES. 



Take four trouts and make a stuffing of fish force meat, salt 
and pepper; have enough water to make the right consistency; 
have an oiled paper for each fish; take thin slices of fat pork and 
lay on the pieces of paper and lay the fish on the meat; add a 
little salt and pepper; then fold thf> paper over and tie with a 
cord; cook in a baking pan with a ver}' little water till well done. 
Do not have the oven too hot. Serve with any sauce desired. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



TO BOIL FRESH COD. 



Dress the fish and put in cold water salted; let stand a few 
minutes; put in a kettle and cover with cold water and let cook 
till well done; put on a fish platter and serve with butter. 



TO COOK TROUT. 



Cook them with the heads on after being washed, and rub 
with salt and pepper; fry in butter and lard in equal parts till 
they are a golden brown. They are very easily cleaned, as they 
have no scales. They can be boiled and served with any kind of 
sauce. 



STEWED OYSTERS. 



1 Can of Best Fresh Oysters, 

2 Tablespoons of Butter, 
I Quart of New Milk, 

i^ Teaspoon of Pepper, 
I Teaspoon of Salt, 
I Tablespoon of Flour. 

Directions — Drain the liquor off and put to boil; skim and 
add the milk, butter and flour; then add to the milk the pepper 
and salt; put in the oysters and let heat a minute and they are 
ready to serve. 



48 THE CAI'JJAL COOK BOOK. 



FISH GRAVY. 



As scarcely anyone likes the flavor of fish in gravy, they 
will find it much improved by pouring about half of the fat out 
and adding meat fryings or butter; add flour and milk; stir well 
and boil five minutes; pour over the baked or fried fish. 



COD FISH BALLS. 

After washing the fish shred fine; put in sweet milk and 
heat boiling hot; remove from stove and soak three hours; then 
wash from the milk and add about one-third as much mashed 
potatoes as you have of the fish; add pepper and some sweet 
cream; make into balls and dip in egg then in cracker meal; fry 
in hot lard till a nice brown. 



CREAMF.D FISH. 



Use any good white fish and separate it into flakes; make a 
cream sauce, which is given in the sauces; allow a cup of sauce 
to every two pounds of the fish; spread a layer of the sauce in a 
baking dish, then a layer of fish; salt and pepper lightly; add a 
little chopped parsley and a teaspoon of lemon juice; over this 
put some more of the sauce and bread crumbs, also a small 
piece of butter; brown in the oven. Canned salmon ma\' be 
used in this way. 



FISH AND OYHTERS. 4iJ 



BOILED TROUT MAITRE DIIOTEL. 

5 trouts, 

3 tablespoons of melted butter, 

I tablespoon of salt, 

)^ tablespoon of pepper. 

DiRKCTioNs — Wash, drain, cut open in back and pepper 
and salt; rub well with the butter; put on the broiler and broil 
ten minutes on one side and turn and cook about the same time 
on the other, or until they are a nice brown; remove to a platter 
and serve with the following sauce. 

DiRFX'TIONS FOR SaUCE, 

I pint of Hollandaise sauce, 
I teaspoon of chopped. parsley, 
I tab'espoon of butter, 
]4^ teaspoon of pepper, 
y^ teaspoon of nutmeg. 
Mix all well together and serve. 



LOBSTER CUTLETS. 



2 lobsters, 
I teaspoon of salt, 
I teaspoon of spices, 
I tablespoon of butter, 
I tablespoon of flour, 

1 pint of stock, 

2 Eggs. 

UiRKciioNs — Chop the meat of the lobsters fine, after being 
cooked in water enough to cover them; then season; put the 
butter and flour in a small pan and add the chopped lobsters 
and stock the lobsters were cooked in; now the eggs well beaten. 
Reserve one egg to dip the cutlets in when all is mixed; spread 
in a shallow pan, and when cold cut into long slices and dip in 
the egg, then in rolled crackers, and fry in hot lard. Tliey are 
nice. 



50 THE CAPrj'AL COOK BOOK. 

BAKED BLUE FISH, 

4 pounds of fish, 

5 crackers,. 

Yi pound of salt pork, 
I tablespoon of salt, 
)^ teaspoon of pepper, 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 

2 tablespoons of flour. 

Directions — Scrape and wash the fish clean; then rub with 
salt; roll the crackers fine; add the parsley, one tablespoon of 
the chopped pork, one-half of the pepper and half of the salt, 
and enough cold water to moisten the whole; put the dressing 
in the fish and fasten with a skewer; put in a dish and cut gashes 
across the fish two inches long; cut the remainder of the pork in 
strips and lay across in the gashes; fill the bottom of the baking 
pan with hot water; bake one hour, basting every few minutes 
and dredging each time with flour and a little pepper. The 
water will have to be renewed often, for only the bottom of the 
pan must be covered. 



SMOTHERED FISH. 



Clean the fish — any good tender fish may be used; cut in 
squares; dredge in flour; lay in a pan and put a good sized lump 
of butter on each piece; salt and pepper; add a cup of hot w-ater; 
after it it done remove to a platter; and put about a half cup of 
good cream, in which has been stirred one tablespoon of flour; 
cook till It thickens; salt and pepper and pour over the fish. 
This will be found excellent. 



TO BAKE FISH WITHOUT STUFFING. 



Cut them open in the back; salt and pepper and lay in a 
pan; baste often with melted butter and water. Do not have 
more than a teacup of water in when putting in to bake; bake 
half an hour in a hot oven. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 51 



BAKED SALMON. 

1 pound can of salmon, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

1 cup of bread crumbs, 

2 eggs, 

I lemon, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

I teaspoon of pepper. 

Directions — Pick the salmon to pieces; mix in the butter, 
salt, pepper, eggs, bread crumbs and juice of the lemon; mix all 
together and put in a baking dish and set in the oven and bake 
till well done; it will require about one hour; then remove from 
the oven and set the dish in cold water till it loosens, and turn 
into a tureen and make a sauce to pour over it as follows: 

I small cup of melted butter, 

I cup of the liquor from the salmon. 

I egg, 

y^ teaspoon of pepper, 

I small teaspoon of salt, 

I pickle, 

I teaspoon of parsley. 
Chop the pickle: beat the egg; then add the liquor from the 
salmon, and parsley, pepper, butter and salt; put on stove and 
let it boil; then pour over the salmon and serve. 



CLAM CHOWDER. 



1 quart of opened clams, or y^ peck in shells, 

Yz pound of salted pork, 

3 medium sized onions, 

^ pound of crackers, 

3 tablespoon of butter, 

y teaspoons of pepper, 

I teaspoon of salt. 
Directions — After the pork has been cut in thin slices fry 
crisp and cut in pieces, put some of these in a sauce pan that 
will hold a half gallon or more; then put in a layer of clams; 
cover with chopped onions, then a layer of crackers; salt and 
pepper, and add some of the butter, then another laj^er, same as 
before and so on until all is used; then cover with hot water and 
stew till well done. Serve with bread, butter and pickles. 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



-Soups, 



SIPPETS FOR SOUPS. 



Butter some stale slices of bread and put in a hot oven 
until thoroughly browned; cut in small squares, and just before 
serving the soup, add some to each bowl. They are very nice, 
and preferred by some to crackers. 



VEAL SOUP. 



Two pints of veal broth, one onion chopped fine, and a cuji 
of stewed tomatoes, a piece of butter, salt and pepper; let boil a 
few minutes and serve. 



MUTTON SOUP. 



One quart of mutton broth, one cup of chopped celery, one 
good sized turnip chopped fine and added to the broth, with one 
pint of hot water; salt and pepper and let cook till the vegetables 
are tender; remove and strain and serve immediately. 



SOUPS. 53 



POTATO SOUP 



Pare and slice some nice mealy potatoes;about a half dozen; 
add one quart of cold water and a chopped onion; boil till very 
tender; mash them and add one large cup of cream, and one 
bunch of celery, a lump of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Chop the celery fine and after adding the cream do not boil, but 
mer five minutes and it is ready to send to the table. 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 



One quart vegetables, using turnips, carrots, onions, celery, 
tomatoes, cabbage and potatoes, put in about one quart of water 
to cook them in; when tender add one quart of beef stock or broth; 
then add a little salt and pepper; cook thirty minutes, and serve 
very hot. 



PEA SOUP. 



2 cups green peas, 

3 quarts of water, 

)4, ft> of lean salt pork, 

I stalk of celery, 

I onion, 

I pinch of pepper. 

Directions — Put the peas and pork to cook, having the 
water cold; add the pepper, celery and onion; let cook four 
hours, when it will look thick and smooth. This is a very nice 
soup. 



54 THE CAPl'J Al. COOK BOOK. 

CLEAR SOUP. 

3 lbs. of beef, 

4 quarts of cold water, 
I onion, 

I stalk of celery, 

I teaspoon of pepper, 

I tablespoon of salt. 

Directions — First, get the beef for the soup from the lower 
part of the round; cut it in small pieces and put to boil in cold 
water; let boil for about five hours, then strain and put away to 
cool; if any fat raises, skim off; return to the kettle and add the 
onion and celery, chopped; boil half an hour and strain again 
and serve while hot. Some like a little of each sage, thyme and 
parsley, but is quite nice without. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

I pint of beef stock, 

1 can of tomatoes, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

1 tablespoon of flour, 

2 onions, 

V( teaspoon of pepper, i teaspoon of salt, 
2 tablespoons of sauce. 

Directions — Put into a frying pan some butter, and when 
hot put the onions, chopped, and tomatoes after they have been 
drained; cook for more than a half hour, remove from stove, 
press through a sieve and return to the fire, adding the beef 
stock; stir the flour in after dissolving it in a little warm water; 
then add the pepper, salt and sauce. Serve hot. Use any kind 
of sauce that is liked. 



A THICKENING FOR SOUI'S. 

May be made by stirring a tablespoon of butter with one 
tablespoon of flour; melt the butter in a frying pan and add the 
flour; stir until it is a nice brown, and a small quantity added to 
soups make lluin them a dark color when it is desired. 

t 



SOUPS. 55 



BOUILLON. 



2^^ lbs. of lean beef, 

yi gallon of cold water, 

I onion, 

I tablespoon of salt, 

I head of celery, 

I teaspoon of pepper, 

T pcrcr 

Directions — Chop the beef fine, put in a kettle, add the 
cold water, salt, pepper and onion chopped fine, and the head 
of celery; boil over a moderate fire for two hours, then set where 
it will boil brisk, then skim ; set over a moderate fire again and 
boil for four hours; strain and return to the kettle; beat the 
white of the egg and add also the shell of the egg; let boil ten 
minutes, put in a cup of cold water, remove from the fire and 
strain. Serve in bouillon cups. 



COCOANUT SOUP. 



)^ It) of cocoanut, 

3 pints of beef broth, 

I cup of rice, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

^ teaspoon of mace, 

I cup of good cream, 
Directions — Grate cocoanut, add to the beef broth, cook 
about an hour slowly; strain the liquor and add the cup of rice, 
after it has been ground; season with the salt and mace; add a 
little cayenne pepper if desired; and just before sending to the 
table, add the cream after being well heated. 



LOBSTER SOUP. 

Use chicken stock or broth for the foundation; pick a can of 
lobsters to pieces; add two quarts of the broth; one onion 
chopped fine and a stalk of celery; cook one hour, then strain 
and add about a pint more broth; now add one cup of good 
cream, salt and pepper to taste. 



.")() THE CAPITAL COOK' BOOK. 

CELEKY SOUP . 

I pint of chicken broth, 
lo stalks of celery, 
3 pints of water, 
I teaspoon of flour, 
I onion, 

Yo, teaspoon of mace, 
I pint of new milk, 
I tablespoon of butter, 
i^ teaspoons of salt, 
I teaspoon of pepper, 

I cup of whipped cream. 
Directions — Cut the celery in small pieces; j>ut to cook 
in the water; cook one-half hour; remove and put in the broth; 
add the milk and onion chopped, and mace; add the butter with 
the flour. Before adding cook one-half an hour and strain; 
whip the egg and also the cup of cream and add just before 
serving. 



OYSTER SOUP 



Take the liquor from one can of fresh oysters, add three 
pints of milk and three tablespoons of butter; put the oysters 
in after it is well heated; let them remain till the}' are done suf- 
ficiently, then skim them out and salt and pepper the soup and 
pour over the oysters boiling hot, and serve immediately. 
Oysters are done sufSciently when the edges begin to ruffle, and 
should not be cooked any longer after this. 



HOW TO ADD EGGS TO SOUPS 



Whip the eggs till very light, then add some water to the 
beaten eggs and add to the soup by degrees, stirring all the time 
to prevent it from being in lumps. 



SOf'/'S. 57 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Dress and joint a }'oung chicken and put to cook in three 
quarts of cold water; salt to taste and cook till very tender or till 
the bones fall out, then remove the chicken and reserve to make 
chicken croquettes, and season with butter with a tablespoon of 
flour dredged in; just before serving add a small bunch of celery; 
serve while verv hot; strain before serving. 



CHICKEN SOUP WITH CORN. 



Add to one quart of chicken broth one large cup of green 
corn, which has been chopped fine; add a cup of cream, and 
salt and pepper. If cream is used no butter need be added, if 
milk, add butter the size of a walnut. Let boil one-half an hour 
and strain and serve while very hot. 



TO MAKE NOODLE SOUP. 



Take a medium sized soup bone; put on to cook with one 
gallon of cold water; salt and let it boil until it begins to get 
tender; add any kind of vegetable liked; add pepper and the 
noodles which can be prepared as follows: Two eggs, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one fourth of a cup of water; the water must be 
cold; make the dough very stiff, roll thin and put around a stick 
about two inches thick; put in a warm place to dry and when 
needed to use break off as much as needed, and add to your soup; 
they cook very easily; twenty minutes is all that is necessary 
for them to cook. 



58 TlIK CAPITAL COO A' BOOK'. 



A GOOD BEEF SOUP. 



Take a three pound soup-bone, put to cook in four quarts of 
cold water; add salt, and cook two hours; then add one large 
onion, two potatoes, one turnip and a sprig of parsley; chop all 
these together before adding to the soup; boil until the vegeta- 
bles are tender, then break three eggs in your soup tureen after 
having them whisked light; strain the soup in by degrees, as 
this will prevent the eggs from curdling, and will cook them 
sufficiently, too; this makes a very nice beef soup and is easily 
made. 



CURRY SOUP. 



2 quarts of veal broth, 

2 medium-size onions, 

I bunch of parsley, 

I chicken, 

I tablespoon of curry powder, 

I lemon, 

I cup of cream, 

DiRKCTioNS — Put the veal broth in a kettle; add the onion 
chopped fine and parsley shredded; let it boil and simmer fifteen 
minutes, then strain; have the chicken jointed and add this to 
the broth, with the curry powder; let all this boil gently till the 
chicken is very tender. Just before serving add the juice of the 
lemon and one cup of boiled cream. 



TO MAKE CURRY POWDER FOR SOUPS. 

% ounce of pepper, 

2 " " tumeric, 

2 " " coriander seed, 

i^ " " cayenne pepper, 

yi " " cardamoms, 

5^ " " cinnamon, 

^ " " cumin seed. 
Directions — Mix all the ingredients together; powder them 
or have it done at druggist's, as most of them cannot be procur- 
ed else where. This powder is fine to put in gravies and soups, 
but very little is necessary. 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES. 59 



Sauces and Gravies. 

CREAM SAUCE. 



2 eggs, ■ 

73 cup of white sugar, 

I glass of brandy, 

I teaspoon of flavoring, 

I cup of cream. 
Directions — Use the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff; then 
add sugar and brandy; alternate until all is used; add the cream 
hot; for flavoring use vanilla, orange or any kind that is prefer- 
red. Beat well and serve at once. 



MAYONAISE. 



I teaspoon of mustard, 
4 tablespoons of butter, 
I teaspoon of sugar, 
Vo teaspoon of salt, 
3 eggs, 

^ cup of sweet cream, 
Yz cup of vinegar. 

Directions — Put the mustard in a pan, add the melted but- 
ter next, then sugar and salt; break in the eggs beat well; add 
cream and the vinegar, a little at a time; mix well; place the 
pan in hot water; stir until thick. 



(iO TflK CAPJ'fAL COOK BOOK. 

TO MAKE DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

One-half pint of hot water; one-fourth teaspoon of salt; 
one tablespoon of flour, one-fourth cup of butter. Cream the 
butter and flour together, then add the water, a little at a time, 
keeping it very hot; stir all the time till the sauce comes to a 
boiling point. After removing from the stove add salt to taste. 
Some like a little lemon juice added, but if properly made it is 
quite nice without. 



CREAMY SAUCE. 



I tablesroon of butter, 
3 tablespoons of sugar, 
^ cup of cream, 
y2 teaspoon of vanilla. 

Directions — Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, 
beating all the time; when very light add the milk, a little at a 
time. Just before serving stand the bowl containing the sauce 
in a pan of hot water for a few seconds, beating hard. It should 
be light and frothy. 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 



1 can of mushroom, 

2 tablespoons of wine, 
I lemon, 

1 tablespoon of sauce, 

2 cups of water, 

2 tablespoons of flour. 

Directions — Mix butter and flour together after slightly 
melting the butter; add the water, lemon juice and sauce; use 
any good sauce that is preferred; add the mushroom sliced; add 
the wine last, using sherry if it can be procured. 



S.-ii'CES AND GRAVIES. 61 



A GOOD HARD SAUCE. 



Yz cup of butter, 
I cup of sugar, 
I lemon. 

Directions — Melt the butter slightly, then add sugar 
and cream; mix well together; add the lemon juice and a part of 
the rind grated; put in a deep dish and smooth over with a knife 
and set away in a cool place. To be eaten with plum paddings. 



CRANBERRY SAUCE. 



Cook berries very tender. Tor a quart of berries allow two 
cups of sugar and one pint of water; when done remove and let 
cool. Serve with meats of any kind. 



TOMATO SAUCE FOR MEATS, 

I peck of ripe tomatoes, 

Yz gallon of cider vinegar, 

Yz tablespoon of cayenne, 

I teacup of white sugar, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

I teaspoon of spice. , 

Directions — Put the tomatoes in a steamer; let steam until 
the skins can easily be removed; then put in a pan to cool; re- 
move the skins; mash and press through a colander and season 
with the spices and pepper; add the sugar, salt and vinegar; put 
in a porcelain or granite kettle and cook one hour. Bottle and 
cork and keep in a cool place. 



G2 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BRANDY SAUCE. 



Yo, cup of water, 
y^ cup of brandy, 

1 tablespoon of corn starch, 

2 small cups of white sugar, 
^ cup of butter, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 

Directions — Put brandy and water together and let come to a 
boil; dissolve the corn starch in cold water and add; boil one 
minute and pour over the sugar and butter, after they have been 
creamed together; next whip with the egg until very light; flavor 
with vanilla and it. is ready to serve. This is splendid sauce. 



TARTAKE SAUCE. 



y cup of good vinegar, 
I tablespoon of capers, 
3 cucumber pickles, 
I onion, 
y cup of mayonnaise. 

Directions — Chop the pickles fine, also the onions; add the 
vinegar and mayonnaise; mix it and it is ready to serve. Just 
before sending to the table add the capers. 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES. G3 



CELERY SAUCE. 

3 heads of celery, 
2 teaspoons of flour, 
2 tablespoons of butter, 
^ teaspoon of salt, 
y^ teaspoon of pepper, 
i^ cups of sweet cream. 

Directions — Chop and stew the celery in just enough water 
to cover it; then cream the butter and flour together; add salt 
and pepper; then add this to the celery, also the cream; stew a 
minute and serve. Excellent with poultry. 



LEMON SAUCE. 



I lemon, 

I large cup of sugar, 

]/o, cup of water, 

I tablespoon of flour, 

}^ cup of butter. 

Directions — Slice the lemon after removing the seeds and 
outside rind; add the water; sift the flour and sugar together; 
add butter; set on to boil and cook till it thickens. This sauce 
is excellent with lemon pudding. 



<i4 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

1)4 cups of good sweet cream, 

4 eggs, 

Yz cup of white sugar, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 

Directions — Have the cream very cold and whip stiff; beat 
the whites of the eggs; add the sugar and flavoring; mix well 
with the cream. Serve with any kind of pudding. 



ASPARAGUS SAUCE. 



I quart of asparagus heads, 
I quart of hot water, 
i^ cups of sweet cream, 
I tablespoon of butter, 
>2 teaspoon of salt, 
^ teaspoon of pepper. 

Directions — Wash the asparagus and let stand a few 
minutes in cold water; then put on to cook in the hot water with 
the salt m it; cook till done; then drain off the water; add the 
cream, butter and pepper; shake up well and serve. 



WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. 



2 tablespoons of flour, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 
^ teacup of fish liquor, 

3 tablespoons of cream, 
I teaspoon of parsley. 

DiKECPioNs — Cream butter and flonr together; add the 
liquor in which the fish were boiled; add the milk; boil a few 
minutes and stir in the chopped parsley. This is very nice with 
the addition of a little celery salt. If not cpiite salt enough from 
the butter, add a pinch of salt. 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES. 65 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 



}^ cup of butter, 

I pint of ripe strawberries, 

I egg. 

Directions — Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; wash 
the berries and drain them; add the sugar and butter to the 
strawberries, and beaten white of the egg; beat up well; serve 
with bread and butter; this sauce will be found very nice and 
rich. 



A COLD PUDDING SAUCE. 



2 small cups of sugar, 
^ cup of good butter, 
I egg, 
I lemon. 

Directions — Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar 
and lemon juice; whip the whites of the egg stiff, and add; heap 
the sauce roughly, on a dish; set on ice till ready to serve. 



OYSTER SAUCE. 



)4 can of fresh oysters, 
l^ cup of sweet cream, 
]/i cup of butter, 
)/> teaspoon of pepper, 
I teaspoon of salt. 

Directions — Chop the oysters fine; add the butter, melted, 
cream, pepper and salt; mix and set on back part of the stove, 
boil for a minute, and serve with baked fish. 



66 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BLACK GRAVY. NO. 1. 



Take the grease after cooking ham, let it get very hot, and 
put the flour in and let it cook thoroughly, before adding any 
water; then add the water cold; boil till well done, and pour 
around the ham, or in a gravy tureen; powdered sage added to 
gravy made from chicken or meat makes a very nice addition; to 
be served with any kind of poultry or meat. 



ANOTHER METHOD OF MAKING BLACK GRAVY. 



Brown the flour in a pan in the oven and proceed as in No. i, 
only use the browned flour; this makes a some what darker gravy 
but is not relished as much as the oth-^r by most people; as in 
browning the flour it is so apt to scorch unless great care is 
taken; it is a good plan to keep a tin can and have a sup- 
ply on hand, so when needed it will be ready prepared. 



SALADS. «7 



Salads. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

2 breasts of chickens, 

2 heads of celery, 

2 eggs, 

4 tablespoons of butter, 

1 teaspoon of pepper, 

2 tablespoons of salt, 

y^ teaspoon of mustard, 
I cup of vinegar. 

Directions — Cook the chicken tender, cut in thin slices; 
prepare the celery in the same way; mix the other ingredients 
together, and cook; then cool, before pouring over the the salad; 
in adding the butter and vinegar, melt the butter and add it al- 
ternately, a little at a time or the vinegar will cause the egg to 
curdle. 



SWEET BREAD SALAD. 



After washing the sweet breads well, let them r .'main in 
ice water or water that is very cold, for an hour; remove to a ket- 
tle with enough water to cover; then having it salted, boil till 
tender; they will cook in less than an hour; remove again to a 
pan of very cold water, let remain for a few minutes, five minutes 
will be sufficient; now proceed to mix by allowing one cup of 
chopped celery to one cup of minced sweet breads; serve with 
cream mayonaise; garnish with lettuce leaves. 



<J8 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



EGG SALAD, NO. 1. 



6 hard boiled eggs, 

2 tablespoons of sugar, 

1 teaspoon of salt, 

'^ teaspoon of mustard, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 
J/^ cup of vinegar, 

I cup of sweet cream, 

y^ teaspoon of black pepper. 

Directions — Boil the eggs hard; slice thin, and make the 
dressing; add the sugar, salt, pepper and mustard, together; 
melt the butter, and add the vinegar and butter alternately; and 
last the cream by degrees; place the sliced eggs in a salad dish; 
pour over the dressing; garnish with thin slices of lemon. 



SALMON SALAD, NO. l. 



1 R) can of salmon, 

1 head of celery, 

y^ teaspoon of pepper, 

2 tablespoons of salad oil, 
4 tablespoons of vinegar, 

2 teaspoons of salt. 

Directions — Chop the salmon, also the celery; reserve the 
leaves of the celery, to garnish with; after the meat and celery 
are mixed, put in a salad bowl, and garnish with the leaves; 
mix the dressing made by adding the oil, vinegar, salt and pep- 
per; pour over the salmon, and serve at once. 



SALADS. 09 



EGG SALAD, NO. 2. 



6 heads of lettuce, 
5 eggs. 

Directions — Boil the eggs hard; clean the lettuce, put in 
a salad bowl; slice the eggs over the lettuce and pour over the 
following dressing, and serve; 

Dressing for Egg Salad^ 
r cup of sour cream, 

1 tablespoon of sugar, 

2 tablespoons of lemon juice, 

1 teaspoon of salt, 

]^ teaspoon of cayenne pepper, 

2 tablespoons of vinegar. 

Directions — Put salt, pepper and sugar together; add lem- 
on juice,- and vinegar; last, the cream after beating well with a 
fork; set on ice; and just before sending to the table pour over 
the eggs and lettuce; this is also good for any kind of vegetable 
salad dressing. 



LOBSTER SALAD. 



To a three pound lobster; take one egg, beat till light; then 
take the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, beat well together, and 
drop olive oil a little at a time; keep stirring all the time; then 
add one teaspoon of ground mustard; salt and pepper to taste; 
beat until light; then add two tablespoons of good vinegar; cut 
the lobster in small pieces after boiling tender, and pour over the 
dressing; and just before serving garnish with the whites of the 
eggs cut in thin slices and celery leaves. 



70 THE CAP/7AL COO A" BOOK'. 



SALMON SALAD. 



I can of salmon, 

I onion, 

I tablespoon of sugar, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

^ teaspoon of pepper, 

4 tablespoons of vinegar, 

I tablespoon of salad oil, 

% teaspoon of mustard, 

I lemon. 

Directions — Chop the salmon fine, and then proceed to 
make the dressing; mix the salt, pepper and mustard, sugar af- 
ter these are well mixed; chop the onion fine; add the juice of 
the lemon and oil; stand five minutes, then pour over the chop- 
ped salmon and mix lightly; this is a very nice salad. 



CUCUMBER SALAD. 



3 cucumbers, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

3^ teaspoon of pepper, 

]A, teaspoon of celery salt, 

Yz cup of good vinegar, 

I tablespoon of oil. 

DiREcrioNs — Cut off about an inch from each end of the 
cucumber, as that imparts the bitter flavor; slice about one- 
fourth of an inch thick; sprinkle the salt and pepper over them, 
and set on ice until thoroughly chilled; remove and add the 
vinegar and oil alternately; now you have a nice, crisp salad. 



SALADS. 71 



OYSTER SALAD. 



ly^ pints of oysters, 

2 heads of celery, 

I tablespoon of oil, 

1 teaspoon of salt, 

3 tablespoons of vinegar, 

2 tablespoons of lemon juice, 
yn teaspoon of pepper, 

}{, cup of mayonaise. 

Directions — Put oysters in pan and cook slightly, do not 
add any water, the liquor of the oysters being sufficient. When 
they begin to boil turn into a colander; when drained place in 
a dish, and add the oil; use any good salad oil; now add salt, 
pepper and lemon juice; set on ice until very cold; chop the 
celery very fine; put in a dish with a lump of ice; when ready to 
serve, drain the water off, mix with the oysters; put all into a 
salad bowl, and pour over the mayonaise; garnish with some of 
the celery leaves, and serve at once. Use any recipe desired 
for the mayonaise; several will be found in this book. 



CABBAGE SALAD 



i^ of a cabbage head, 

4 eggs, 

yi cup of sugar, 

1 teaspoon of salt, 

^2 teaspoon of black pepper, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 
I teaspoon of mustard, 

I cup of vinegar. 
Directions — Wash and slice cabbage fine; remove any 
tough or wilted leaves; boil eggs hard, slice them in rings, mix 
lightly together; then add the mustard, salt and pepper and also 
the sugar; drop the melted butter alternately with the vinegar; 
toss lightly and arrange in a dish, and garnish with celery leaves. 



72 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



A GOOD SALAD. 



3 tablespoons of cheese, 
yi teaspoon of salt, 
2 tablespoons of vinegar, 
y^ teaspoon of black pepper, 
2 tablespoons of butter. 

Directions — Grate the cheese fine; add vinegar by degrees, 
then salt, pepper and melted butter; beat until well mixed; and 
serve garnished with lettuce leaves. 



A GOOD POTATO SALAD. 



6 medium sized potatoes, 

2 small onions, 

2 small beets, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

I teacup of vinegar, 

I teaspoon of mustard. 

Directions — Boil the potatoes in their jackets, slice rather 
thick; chop the onions fine and add; cook beets until tender and 
chop them; add the melted butter and vinegar a little at a time; 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper; put in a dish, garnish with the 
beets and parsley, add mustard seed last. 



CABBAGE SALAD NO. 2. 



I tablespoon of sugar, 

I medium sized cabbage, 

I cup of cream dressing, 

I pint of whipped cream, 

^ cup of vinegar, 

I teaspoon of mustard seed. 

Directions — Shave the cabbage, put, in cold water, let 
stand a few minutes; drain, and sprinkle pepper and salt and 
mustard seed; add cream dressing; mix lightly; put in a dish and 
serve garnishi.-d with thin slices of eggs. 



SALADS. 7? 



LETTUCE SALAD. NO. 2. 



3 heads of nice lettuce, 
^2 cup of vinegar, 
y^ teaspoon of pepper, 
^2 teaspoon of mustard, 
I tablespoon of salad oil, 
3 hard boiled eggs, 
I teaspoon of sugar, 
I teaspoon of salt. 

Directions — Boil the eggs and rub the yolks to a powder; 
slice the white in rings; put the mustard, pepper, salt and sugar 
together, add the powdered yolks; then add the oil and vinegar 
alternately; beat up lightly with two forks; put the lettuce in a 
dish and pour over the dressing, and the slices of the eggs 
around as a garnish. 



TONGUE SALAD. 



I beef tongue, 

I tablespoon of salt, 

4 good sized potatoes, 

1 head of celery. 

3 hard boiled eggs, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 
I teaspoon of mustard, 
yi teaspoon of pepper, 

4 tablespoons of vinegar, 
I cup of liquid. 

Directions — Cook tongue very tender and slice thin; boil 
eggs hard and slice the whites in rings; cook potatoes and slice 
thin; use the liquor the tongue was boiled in; add mustard, salt 
and pepper and mix lightly; chop and add celery. This is a 
splendid salad. 



74 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CHICKEN SALAD— EXCELLENT. 



I chicken, 

Y-z cup of vinegar, 

Y cup of butter, 

3^ teaspoon of celery seed, 

'Y teaspoon of pepper, 

I cup of sweet cream, 

5 medium sized potatoes. 

Directions — Boil the chicken very tender, remove from the 
bone, chop very fine, put into a mixing bowl; add the butter 
after it has been melted, and vinegar, alternate a little. at a time; 
then chop potatoes, after they have been boiled tender; add to 
this the celery seed, pepper and salt; the cream last; mix well; 
set away awhile before serving; if made exactly by this recipe, 
will be found as nice as any chicken salad can be made. Some 
like it garnished with thin slices of lemon. 



EGGS AND OMELErrES. 



~^^^r 



Eggs and Omelettes. 



BOILED EGGS. 



Choose fresh eggs to boil; if doubtful about their being fresh 
drop in cold water, if not good they will rise to the top of the 
water; have the water at a boiling point, put in with a spoon or 
skimmer, and let remain in the water for three minutes, if wish- 
ed to be rather soft, or if wanted hard boiled let them remain 
five or more minutes; skim out on a hot dish, and serve at once. 



CURRIED EGGS. 



y, pint of beef broth, 

8 eggs, 

I large onion, 

Yz tablespoon curry powder, 

I cup of cream. 

Directions — Slice onion and fry brown in some butter; heat 
the cream and thicken a little with flour or rice powder; have 
the eggs boiled, and sliced; add to the broth; then cream, curry 
powder and onions; pour over the sliced eggs, mix well, and 
serve while hot. 



THE CAPJ-J-AL COOK BOOK. 



POACHED EGGS. 



Use fresh egf^s — eggs that are poached if not fresh are more 
easily detected than in any other way; break the eggs on a flat 
dish; have the water boiling hot, put one egg in at a time till all 
are in; cook briskly, cover over for a few minutes till the yolks 
are covered with the whites of the eggs; skim out with a skimmer; 
put on a platter; add some small pieces of butter, pepper and 
salt; then cover over for a few minutes and send to the table. 



VEGETABLE OMELET. 



Take cucumbers, potatoes, onions, green peas, tomatoes, 
and mushrooms; chop them fine after being cooked tender; add 
some peppeir and salt and cream enough to make it the consis- 
tency wanted; put on the stove and heat till hot, but do not let 
it boil; have your omelet ready; put in the pan and when ready 
to roll together, add this mixture; these are very nice; the 
onions may be omitted if disliked. 



TO STUFF EGGS. 



Use any number of eggs; boil till hard; put in cold water to 
remove the shells; cut in halves, take out the yolks and rub them 
to a powder; add some finel}' minced ham and salt and pepper, 
and some powdered crackers, and as much melted butter as will 
make it a little soft; set whites on a platter, fill in with the mix- 
ture; put in a pan, set in the oven a few minutes and serve v/ith 
celery. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 77 



TOMATO OMELET. 



Slice very ripe tomatoes, fry in butter after draining them, 
as well as you can; make the omelet and cook as usual, and put 
some of the slices of the tomatoes between. 



FRIED EGGS. 



The better way to fry eggs, for any one that objects to them 
being too greasy, is to use a very little meat fryings — ham is the 
best; put into gem pans, set them on the stove till hot; put 
one Qg^^ in each place or cup, and set in the oven a few minutes, 
until sufficiently cooked, and they are ready to serve. 



CAULIFLOWER OMELET. 



I pint of cauliflower, 
5 eggs, 

I large cup of milk, 
^ teaspoon of pepper, 
I teaspoon of salt. 

Directions — Chop the cauliflower fine, after being cooked 
till very tender; add the beaten yolks, then the cauliflower and 
whites of the eggs, whisked light; last, pepper and salt; butter 
a frying pan and turn the omelet in, after it is hot; cook a few 
minutes, turn one-half over the other, and serve while hot. 



78 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



MEAT OMELETS. 



Make an omelet by any of the recipes found in this book, 
and chop very fine any cold meat, chicken or beef; season to 
suit taste, and before folding over your omelet, place some of 
this between the omelet and it is ready to serve; this is a very 
nice way to use cold meats. 



A PLAIN OMELET. 



For several in family, use about nine eggs, beat them sep- 
arately; add to the yolks two cups of sweet milk, some pepper 
and salt; do not beat the yolks to much; whip the whites stiff; 
add them and mix well together; put some butter in a pan and 
put your omelet in; cook quickly, but be careful not to brown it; 
serve while hot. 



FRENCH OMELET. 



i cup of sweet milk, 
I cup of bread crumbs, 
y^ teaspoon of pepper, 
I small teaspoon of salt, 
6 eggs. 

Directions — Beat the eggs separately; heat the milk to a 
boiling point, then pour over the bread crumbs; add the yolks of 
the eggs, salt and pepper, last the whites beaten stiff; put on a 
frying pan with some butter, put the mixture in and cook three 
minutes fold over, and it is ready to serve. 



EGGS A XD OMELE TS. 79 



BAKED EGGS. 



Break as many eggs as are needed for the meal, into a plate; 
grease a baking dish; put in the eggs, sprinkle slightly with salt 
arid pepper; put in a small piece of butter on top of each, bake 
well or rare done, as preferred; take up on small egg plates, 
and serve with a sprig of parsley on each egg. 



BREADED EGGS. 



Pour hot water over any number of eggs wished to be served, 
let simmer, but not boil, a few minutes, not over five; pour this 
water off and put cold water on so the shells will be easily re 
moved; when cold remove the shells and slice one egg in three 
pieces lengthwise, dip in melted butter then in bread crumbs, 
after dipping in beaten egg, fry in hot lard or butter. These 
are nice for lunches, or if used while warm are nice with cream 
sauce. 



TO BAKE AN OMELET. 



Place a pan on top of stove; grease it slightly; have the 
omelet ready, put in, and place in the oven; let brown slightly; 
pour on a hot platter and serve. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 



Use any number of eggs desired; allov/ one tablespoon of 
cream to each egg; also a pinch of salt and pepper; beat the eggs 
well, season, turn into a pan, stir until done; serve very hot with 
toast, or any kind of meats. 



80 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CHEESE OMELET. 



y^ teaspoon of salt, 
4 eggs, 

1 pinch of pepper, 
^ cup of milk, 

2 tablespoons of cheese. 

Directions — Beat the eggs separately; add the milk to the 
yolks, salt and pepper, then the beaten whites of the eggs; last, 
the grated cheese; put in a hot frying pan; cook till it sets, and 
turn over, and serve while very hot. 



EGG SPONGE. 



yz dozen eggs, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

% teaspoon of pepper, 

I tablespoon of butter. 

Directions- — -Separate the yolks from the whites; whip the 
whites separately, till very light; put a spoonful in an egg cup, 
make a small place in the center, put a yolk in, and so on till all 
is used; sprinkle with salt and pepper; set the cups in a pan in 
boiling water, send to the oven for about two minutes; serve at 
once with a very small piece of butter on each one; serve in the 
cups. 



EGGS WITH FRIED HAM. 



Slice the ham thin; have a pan hot, put the ham in, let 
brown nicely on both sides; put on a buttered platjter; keep 
where it will be warm, break in some eggs, fry them and put 
around the ham on the platter; serve at once. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 81 

OMELET NO 2. 

Take five eggs, one pint of new milk, butter the size of an 
egg,and one tablespoon offiour; whip the yolks and whites of the 
eggs separately; melt the butter and add to the yolks; next add 
the flour, milk, and salt enough to suit taste; add the beaten 
whites last; put in a frying pan, and when done sufficiently turn 
over and let remain about a minute. Serve at once. 



CREAM EGGS ON TOAST. 



Toast some stale light bread; put to one-half dozen slices of 
bread, one cup of sweet cream; heat it slightly, and dip with a 
spoon over the slices of bread; have some eggs broken on a 
plate; put some cream in a pan; pour the eggs in and cook as 
quick as possible; salt and pepper; put a spoonful over each 
piece of bread; send to the table immediately. 



EGGS FOR LUNCH. 



Boil the eggs till very hard; when cold cut them lengthwise; 
rub the yolks and some cold chicken chopped; add cream, some 
celery and grated cheese; after all this is chopped fine and mixed 
well, fill in the halves and put together and wrap in tissue paper. 
If liked, can after being put together, dip in beaten egg and 
rolled in crackers and fried in hot lard, but is quite nice without. 



82 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



FRIZZLED MEAT WITH EGGS. 



^ pound of shaved ham, 

3 eggs, 

i cup of hot water, 

I tablespoon of butter. 

Directions. — After shaving the ham, or dried beef, if pre- 
fered to the ham, put to soak in the cup of hot water and soak 
for fifteen minutes, keeping it hot; then beat the eggs well; put 
the butter in a frying pan and when it gets very hot add the 
meat and stir till the slices begin to curl up; then set the pan 
over hot water; add the eggs and stir till they are cooked; it will 
be hot enough over the water to cook them sufficient. Serve 
while hot. 



MACARONI WITH EGGS. 



After boiling the macaroni till tender, put one cup of milk 
in a pan, and add three eggs, beaten light; use the whole eggs; 
season with salt and pepper; put the macaroni in a pan and pour 
this over; put in the oven for a few minutes, and it is ready to 
serve. 



HAM AND POACHED EGGS. 



Slice the ham thin; fry a nice brown; put on in a pan in 
some hot water salted; have the pan slightly greased before put- 
ting the water in; break the eggs in; have water enough to cover 
them; when done sufficient remove to the plate of iiam, putting 
an egg on each piece of ham, and a small piece of buttei and 
some pepper on top of each egg, and they are ready for the 
table. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 83 



ESCALLOPED EGGS. 



5 eggs, 

Y-z teaspoon of pepper, 
I teaspoon of salt, 
I tablespoon butter. 

Directions. — Beat the eggs separately; put the beaten 
whites in a baking dish; make a hollow in the center; beat the 
yolks, and add the pepper and salt; sprinkle a little cracker dust 
over them; add the butter; pour this in the whites and bake five 
minutes and serve very hot. 



HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS, NO. 1. 

Select what you know to be fresh eggs; take a stone jar the 
size you wish to hold the number of eggs you desire to keep; 
put a layer of salt, then one of eggs; be sure and have the small 
end of the eggs down; next a layer of salt and eggs, till the jar is 
full; have a very thick layer of salt at the top. This will be 
found an excellent way to keep eggs. 



HOW TO PRESERVE EGGS, NO. 2. 



This recipe is some more trouble than No i. Three teacups 
of salt; to this add a piece of lime about the size of a teacup; 
put this into a jar and slack with three quarts of hot water; let 
stand till perfectly cold; pour off and add the salt; stir till it 
dissolves; then pour over the eggs. A large stone jar is best. 
Have enough of the water to cover them. 



84 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



SANDWICHES, 



TO MAKE SANDWICHES. 

A nice sandwich requires no little pains to have them what 
they should be. In the first place, the bread that is used should 
be nice and fresh, the ham cooked very tender, but not so much 
that it will not slice nicely; cut ham and bread in thin slices; 
first, remove the crust and butter nicely; put a liberal piece of 
ham between the slices of bread. If wanted for any occassion 
in which everything is wished to be as dainty as possible, tie 
each one with tiny ribbon and have a nice little bow; will look 
very nice. 



EGG SANDWICHES. 



Use good light bread or buns; butter them; have the eggs 
boiled hard; slice the egg round ways; put on one slice; then 
put chopped celery, pickles chopped, or if salad is preferred, use 
that; put the other piece of bread over and cut in nice squares; 
if the piece of bread is large it will made two sandwiches. 



SAXDWICHES. 85 



A FINE DRESSING FOR SANDWICHES. 



^ lb butter, 

1 cup of vinegar, 

2 tablespoons of mustard, 

3 tablespoons of salad oil, 
I pinch of cayenne pepper, 
I pinch of salt, 

I egg. 

Directions — Cream the butter; add the mustard, pepper, 
salt and salad oil; now add the vinegar and beat up well; last 
add the yolk of the egg; mix all well together; spread on the 
slices of bread, and put the chopped ham on. This makes a 
very rich dressing for sandwiches, if properly made. 



FISH SANDWICHES. 



Take bits of white fish, or any fish that has been left over 
from a meal, chop fine; take eggs, two is sufficient for two cups- 
ful of chopped fish; beat the eggs well, add oil till they begin to 
thicken; stir the fish in; add some vinegar, just enough to taste, 
and salt and pepper; cut thin slices of bread, spread with this 
and cut in squares, and serve. 



MIXED SANDWICHES— FINE. 

Chop equal parts of chicken, tongue and ham; after chop- 
ping these together, divide, and put with one part, two table- 
spoons of melted butter, one tablespoon of salad oil, one table- 
spoon of prepared mustard, the powdered yolks of three hard 
boiled eggs, some pepper and salt; butter some thin slices of 
bread and put the meat between, and serve. 



86 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



LOBSTER SANDWICHES. 

Put into a pan one tablespoon of butter and let it get warm; 
add one-half cup of hot water; add a teapsoon of ficur, (it might 
be added to the butter before the water is added); now have the 
lobster meat chopped fine and add enough to make it about as 
thick as hash; cut thin slices of bread; butter them; put in the 
oven till slightly browned; then put some of the mixture between 
the slices. 



CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

Cut thin slices of bread and butter them; have the cucumbers 
sliced thin; and some good mayonaise; spread the bread with 
mayonaise; then put the cucumber slices on; butter the other 
slice for the top, and put in a cool place till ready to serve. 
These are very nice for one that likes cucumbers. The colder 
they are kept the better they are. 



OYSTER SANDWICHES. 



I dozen fresh oysters, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

Yn teaspoon of pepper, 

I cup of cracker crumbs, 

I egg, 

I teaspoon of lemon juice. 

Directions — Chop the oysters; add the butter, salt and 
pepper, and put them to cook in their own liquor, cook five 
minutes, and add the cracker crumbs and the egg, after beating 
it up well; stir till it thickens; then add the lemon juice and 
pour out on a plate; when cold cut in dices and it is ready to 
put between the bread. 



VEGETABLES. 87 



VEGETABLES, 



TO BOIL VEGETABLES. 



To boil vegetables, it is always better to cook them in soft 
water. If soft water can not be obtained, put in a small amount 
of baking soda in the water before putting on to cook. Wash 
all vegetables thoroughly before putting on to cook, and water 
that is used for cooking should be fresh, as allowing it to stand 
renders it unfit for cooking purposes; they should be cooked 
very fast, as any vegetable that is green retains its color better 
than when cooked slow. Vegetables gathered fresh are better, 
but if obliged to use them a little stale, lay in cold water some 
time before cooking; this will freshen them some. Vegetables 
that are raised by an artificial means are not healthy, or vegeta- 
bles used too green. In cooking vegetables that have a bad 
odor, drop a piece of bread crust in while boiling, or some red 
pepper will answer the purpose. Add sugar to peas, beets- 
squash, corn, turnips and pumpkins. 



FRIED POTATOES. 



Peel your potatoes and wash them; cut in thick slices and 
then cut the slices in squares; have the grease very hot; put 
them in and fry until a nice brown; skim them out in a colander. 
They are very pretty prepared this way. 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



DRY LIMA BEANS. 



Soak the beans over night; in the morning change the 
water, and when time to put on to cook, put them on in fresh 
v/ater; have the water hot and salted a little; it requires about 
two hours to cook; when done, season with butter and a spoonful 
of fiour added; next add a cup of cream, and put in with the 
beans; cook a few minutes and serve. For this amount it will 
take about one quart of beans, after they are soaked. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 



Take mashed potatoes; mix some butter and beaten whites 
of eggs in them; then salt and pepper; mix well, make out with_ 
the hands into cone shapes; dip in the yolks of the eggs, then in 
crackers and fry in hot lard a golden brown. 



PRINCESS POTATOES. 



Use cold, boiled potatoes; slice lengthwise, in thick slices; 
dip in egg, then fry in hot greas-^ till brown; serve while hot. 



POTATOES BAKED WITH BEEF. 



Wash and pare the potatoes; they must not be too large; 
put them in the pan with the beef, dip the gravy over them, un- 
til they are done; it will take about one hour to cook well done. 



VEGETABLES. 89 



BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 



Wash medium sized potatoes; put in a baking pan and bake 
in a quick oven; they ought to be served at once. 



BAKED SWEET PUMPKIN. 



Cut the pumpkin in slices; put in a baking pan, with the 
rind next to the pan; be careful to remove all the seeds and 
scrape a little below the seeds; put lumps of butter over each 
piece, and bake in a, very hot oven; serve in the rind, or may be 
scooped out in a dish; serve while very hot. 



BROWNED TURNIPS. 



Cook the turnips till almost done; skim out and dip in but- 
ter, and fry in hot grease, brown on both sides. Are nice to 
serve with any kind of game. 



BOILED TURNIPS. 



Select medium sized turnips; peel and slice them; put on to 
cook in salted water; when done, pour all the water off that re- 
mains; season with butter and some pepper, sprinkled on. 



90 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BOILED ONIONS. 



Use medium sized onions and of uniform size; peel and put 
them in a stew pan and cover with hot water; cook about twenty 
minutes; then pour the water ofl, as onions have a better flavor 
to have the water changed; put hot water over them again, and 
salt it a little; when done pour the water off again and pour over 
tiiem, a cup of cream and some melted butter; dish up after 
it stands a few minutes; pepper them and send to the table. 



MASHED SWEET POTATOES. 



Steam the potatoes; when done peel them and mash; put on 
a tin and spread with butter, sprinkle some sugar over and set 
in the oven until they brown; put a knife under the side and slip 
off onto a plate and serve. 



TO COOK SPINACH. 



Wash and put in a kettle with enough water to cover; have 
the water salted slightly; cook till tender; drain and chop fine, 
and add a cup of milk and a piece of butter; pepper and salt; 
cook a few minutes; put in a dish and garnish with thin slices of 
hard boiled eggs. 



VEGETABLES. 9l 



A NICE WAY TO COOK SWEET POTATOES. 



Boil large sweet potatoes; when done pare carefully and ar- 
range in a baking dish; sprinkle with sugar and small piece of 
butter; put a cup of good cream on the stove and heat it till it 
almost reaches a boil; set it in the oven for a few minutes and 
it is ready to serve. 



BAKED STUFFED POTATOES. 



Use medium sized potatoes; cut the potatoes out inside till 
only about one-fourth of an inch thick; fill in with minced ham 
and chopped onions, salt and pepper; fill the potatoes; set in a 
pan; add some hot water and butter; set in a quick oven and 
cook till they are well done. They are better if basted often 
while cooking; when done remove and take some cream and 
flour and make a gravy and pour over the potatoes on the platter. 



A FANCY DISH OF POTATOES. 

Cook and mash as usual; put on a tin and make up in a 
pyramid shape, and take something and make holes over it, 
about two inches down through the potatoes; have some mashed 
potato in which there has been some yolk of an egg stirred; 
take a funnel and fill it with this potato; fill in the holes 
that have been made in the white potatoes; smooth and 
butter the top; then set in the oven till brown. This is good, 
and besides a beautiful dish. 



92 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO COOK SUMMER SQUASH. 



Cut in rather thin slices, and dip in egg, then in cracker 
meal, or dip in butter, and fry in hot grease; they should not be 
fried too fast, or might not be as tender as liked; some prefer 
them boiled and mashed, but are usually too watery this way, 
but when fried are very nice. 



BAKED POTATOES. 



Choose smooth potatoes to bake, wash them thoroughly, 
scrape them a little, as they are nicer when done; put in a pan 
and bake in a quick oven; serve while hot as a baked potato is 
almost worthless if allowed to get cool. 



SUCCOTASH. 



Take an equal amount of each lima beans, and corn that 
has been cut from the cob; put on to cook, and cook about 
one hour; ssason with butter and cream, and serve while hot. 



DRIED CORN. 



Take the amount of corn desired to cook; cover with hot 
water; soak for five or six hours; drain and put to cook in fresh 
water; add salt and pepper; cook till tender; season v/ith plenty 
of butter; cream may be added if liked, but is very good without. 



VEGETABLES. 93 



BAKED POTATO ROLLS. 



Boil the potatoes in their jackets; peel and mash; make into 
balls a little larger than a hen egg; dip them in butter, then the 
beaten yolk of an egg; put on a buttered tin and set in the 
oven for a few minutes as they brown easily; slip on a platter 
and send to the table at once. 



BAKED POTATOES. 



Wash medium sized potatoes and put in a baking pan; set 
in the oven and bake quick; serve as soon as they are done with 
plenty of good butter They are nice to break them open just 
before sending to the table. Sprinkle with salt, pepper; add a 
good sized piece of butter to each half of potato. 



POTATO BALLS. 



Take some nice mashed potatoes and make into balls; roll 
some crackers; beat up an egg; first dip in the ^g^,, then in the 
crackers; fry in very hot grease. 



TO COOK NEW POTATOES. 



Wash the potatoes and rub the peel off with a brush; put in 
to boil in salted water; boil till tender; dip them out in a crock; 
put it on the back of the stove to keep warm; put some cream 
and butter in a sauce ))an; heat it, and when hot put the potatoes 
in and shake them up well; put in a covered dish and serve. 



94 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



YANKEE WAY TO SERVE LETTUCE. 



Wash the lettuce; put in a chopping bowl and chop a little; 
sprinkle some salt and pepper over; while preparing this, have 
some eggs boiling, and vinegar heating with sugar and meat 
drippings; after it is well heated, pour over the lettuce in a cov- 
ered tureen and proceed to get the eggs ready by removing the 
shells and slicing in rings; garnish the lettuce with them and 
serve at once. 



FRENCH DRESSING FOR LETTUCE. 



6 heads of lettuce, 
5 teaspoons of salad oil, 
2 tablespoons of vinegar, 
2'teaspoons salt. 

Directions. — Pour the oil upon the lettuce, after it has been 
picked, and put in a salad bowl; then dissolve the salt in the 
vinegar; pour this slowly on; stir thoroughly, and serve at once. 



FRIED CABBAGE. 



Slice nice, white cabbage very thin; have some meat drip- 
pings in a frying pan; put the cabbage in; salt and pepper, and 
fry as fast as they can without scorching them; stir often; keep 
them covered closely when not stirring; when cooked sufficiently 
serve at otice. 



VEGETABLES. 95 



MASHED POTATOES. 



Cook the potatof:s until they are quite tender; pour the 
water off and let stand for a few minutes in the kettle to steam; 
then proceed to mash them with a potato masher, the wire ones 
are the best, as the potatoes are much lighter when thus mashed; 
beat till they look real white; add some butter and cream, but 
be careful not to get them too damp, as that will spoil them; 
always heat the milk or cream that is used in mashed potatoes; 
do not let it boil; beat up lightly; put in a covered tureen, and 
serve at once. Potatoes must not stand after being mashed, as 
they are easily spoiled. 



SLAW DRESSING. 



2 eggs, 

lYz cups of cream, 

y^ cup of vinegar, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

^ teaspoon of pepper, 

^ teaspoon of mustard. 

Directions. — Chop a small head of cabbage; put in a dish; 
then beat the eggs well; add cream, next the salt, mustard and 
pepper; last the vinegar; put in a granite or porcelain kettle; let 
boil and pour over the cabbage; serve while hot. 



9G THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BAKED SQUASH. 



I small squash, 
y-z cup of butter, 
I teaspoon of sugar. 

Directions. — Slice the squash about three inches wide; ar- 
range the slices in a baking dish — rind down; dust with sugar 
and the butter cut in pieces; baketill nice and done. Serve in 
the rind. 



STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

6 egg plants, 

I cup of chopped ham, 

3 tablespoons of bread crumbs, 

I tablespoonful of butter, 

I onion, 

^ teaspoon of salt, 

y^ teaspoon of pepper. 

Directions. — Boil egg plant till tender; then prepare the 
filling by chopping the ham; add bread crumbs, butter, pepper 
and salt, cut the egg plant in halves; fill each half with a portion 
of the mixture; bake fifteen minutes. 



TO STEW CELERY. 



Wash and scrape the celery; cut in small pieces and put to 
cook in salted water; have the water hot; cook fifteen minutes, 
and if it is as tender as should be, will be ready to have the 
the water poured off, and seasoned; season with cream and but- 
ter; have a little flour dredged with the butter; cook a few minutes 
and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 97 



ANNAS POTATOES. 



Take medium sized potatoes, slice very thin, put in a baking 
dish, sprinkle over with salt and pepper; then add an onion 
chopped fine, pour over enough sweet cream and a good sized 
lump of butter; set in the oven till well done; take out in a dish 
and garnish with celery tops. 



SARATOGA CHIPS. 



Pare and slice the potatoes very thin; pour cold water over 
them and let stand for a few minutes; have some lard toasting 
hot, cook a few at a time till a nice brown, then dip out into a 
colander and sprinkle with salt. If a wire basket can be procured 
it is better to cook them in. 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 



2 bunches of asparagus, 

i pint of cream, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

I pinch of cayenne, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

I qt. of hot v/ater. 

Directions: — Boil the asparagus till well done, then pass 
through a colander; now add one pint of the water that it has 
been boiled in; add the pepper and salt, scald the cream and add 
the butter: now put this in the asparagus, stir well and it is 
ready to serve. 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



GREEN CORN CROQUETTES. 

'Boil the corn on the cob, or if green corn cannot be had, 
good canned corn will do; remove the corn from the cob; season 
with salt and pe))per; whip some eggs, stir in a little cream, and 
add a small piece of butter. This cannot be handled with the 
hands very well, but have some cracker meal ready; dip out by 
spoonfuls and and drop in the meal, when it can be made out 
into cone shapes and fried in hot grease, a nice brown. 



POTATOES, STEWED. 



Pare and slice the potatoes; put in a kettle; cover with hot 
water; salt, pepper and put in enough butter to make it quite 
rich; after they are about done, pour off all the water and put in 
enough milk, in which has been stirred some flour; let cook till 
it thickens and pour out in a dish and serve. 



TO COOK OKRA. 



If this is not properly cooked is not at all good; requires 
careful preparing to be good; first, use only the tender pods; 
slice them thin; put in boiling water, in which some salt has 
been added; cook one-half hour; then drain the water off and 
season with butter, pepper and cream; have the cream and but- 
ter heated before putting on; cover for a few minutes and it is 
ready to serve. Is very nice on toast. 



VEGETABLES. 99 



FRIED ONIONS. 



Peel and slice them and put in salted water; let come to 
a boil, pour the water off and add some butter and meat fryings 
and fry till they are tender and browned slightly. They may be 
fried in grease alone, and are nice to garnish fried meats with. 



CREAMED POTATOES. 



Pare and slice medium sized potatoes; put in a sauce pan, 
pour in enough hot water to cover them; add salt, pepper and 
butter; cook until well done; remove to a dish; put cream in 
the pan and heat a few minutes, then pour it over the potatoes 
and send to the table. 



TO COOK KRAUT. 



Dip from the barrel or keg what kraut is needed for the 
meal; if very sour, parboil it by pouring hot water on and let 
stand a few minutes, then pour this off and add more water; 
when cooked sufficient, season with fried meat drippings and let 
cook a few minutes after adding the seasoning. Some prefer 
kraut boiled like cabbage with meat, but as it has such an odor 
it is much nicer cooked alone. 



100 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO COOK GREENS. 



After picking them look over carefully, and wash in about 
a dozen pans of water, as they will have more or less sand and 
dirt in them; when ready to cook, put on in boiling water, salt 
it a little and cook one hour; season with meat drippings; make 
them rather greasy; serve with vinegar, mustard and hard boiled 
eggs. Dandelion, mustard, horse raddish leaves and many other 
kinds are used. 



TO COOK BEETS. 



Wash the beets thoroughly, but do not use a knife if you 
want them to retain their color; cook till tender, but not enough 
to break the peel; after they are cold, slice into vinegar, unless 
wished to be used warm, when they are sliced and kept warm, 
as other vegetables are, and seasoned with butter, pepper and 
salt. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 



Choose large, smooth tomatoes; remove the peel, cut out in 
the centre, leaving only about an inch through to the out side; 
fill in with bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper and cream, mixed 
together; onion may be added if liked; put in a baking pan and 
bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes; remove and serve at once. 



VEGETABLES. 101 



COLD, SLICED TOMATOES. 



Take about three good sized tomatoes; choose very ripe 
ones; slice with a sharp knife, leaving the peel on; put in a glass 
dish and prinkle with salt and pepper; pour some good cider 
vinegar over them; let stand a few minutes before serving. 



RUTA BAGA. 



Cook the same as turnips, but are much harder than turnips, 
and must be cooked a little longer; season with milk and butter, 
or may be cooked with pork. 



FRIED SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Prepare as when boiling cabbage till tender; mash and sea- 
son, and when cold enough make into cakes and roll in egg, 
then in cracker crumbs; fry in hot grease till a golden brown. 



TO COOK ASPARAGUS. 



Take only very tender stalks; chop them and cook in salted 
water till tender; then drain and add some butter, cream and 
pepper; shake up and pour in a dish; serve while hot. 



102 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



HOMINY CROQUETTES. 

Take cooked hominy, make into cone shapes; dip in egg, 
then in cracker meal, then fry in lard until a good brown. These 
are very nice for breakfast. 



FRIED HOMINY. 



Use cold hominy that has been boiled; slice and dip in egg 
and then in meal, and fry in butter until a golden brown; serve 
at once while hot. 



TO STEW TOMATOES. 



First select nice tomatoes; scald them enough to remove 
the peel easily; pare and put them in a kettle in which some 
butter has been put; chop them up with a spoon, after putting 
in the kettle; season with salt and pepper; cook briskly for 
about five minutes, then pour out into a dish and serve. 



TO COOK ARTICHOKES. 



Scrape and wash them, then put in cold water and let stand 
awhile, then put on to cook in hot water; cook till quite tender, 
then remove at once and pour over them spme cream sauce. 



r/'lGETABLES. . W6 



STEWED SALSIFY. 

Wash and scrape the roots well; put them in cold water as 
they are cleaned; when all are cleaned put to cook, after slicing 
them in slices; put them in fresh water and cook till tender; 
pour off the water and add a lump of butter and some cream, in 
which some flour has been stirred in; let boil again about three 
minutes; pour in a dish and serve. 



GREEN PEAS. 



Peas is a vegetable that requires quite a bulk to make the 
necessary amount required, as they seem to be almost all hull; 
select nice tender ones; shell them, and put to cook in hot water; 
salt them; when done, season with butter and cream, or some 
prefer to omit the cream, and use the butter and pepper to 
season them ; serve while hot. 



ONIONS AND TOMATOES FRIED. 



Proceed to prepare the onions and tomatoes to fry as they 
are usually prepared; have the frying pan hot, and some butter 
and meat fryings put in, and when almost smoking hot, first put 
the onions in and let them fry about five minutes before putting 
in the tomatoes; cook till well done; put them in a covered dish 
and serve. 



104 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BAKED EGG PLANT. 



Boil till they are very tender; then proceed to mash as 
potatoes are; season with butter; pep))er and salt to taste; butter 
a baking dish; put a layer of egg plant, then bread crumbs, then 
the egg plant, till all is used; sprinkle some cracker meal on 
top, and some small pieces of butter; set in the oven and bake 
till browned. 



FRIED EGG PLANT. 



Wash and slice medium sized egg plants, in about four 
slices; put on in hot water, having it salted a little; boil till they 
are almost done; skim out; beat up an egg; dip in the egg then 
in the rolled cracker; fry in butter until well done and they are 
ready to serve. 



BOILED CABBAGE. 



To boil cabbage choose a nice head, rather large; quarter it, 
and have a piece of beef or pork boiling; about one hour before 
dinner put the cabbage in on top of the meat, as it is much bet- 
ter not to be allowed to lie in the water as it keeps more firm; 
after it is tender remove and pour some of the meat liquor around 
in the dish; should be put in a covered dish and not allowed to 
stand after being taken from the stove; add, while cooking, a 
small piece of red pepper. 



VEGETABLES.. 105 



GERMAN WAY TO SERVE LETTUCE. 



Take about three heads of nice tender lettuce; pull the 
heads apart; wash them; cut a good sized slice of ham into small 
squares; put them in a pan and fry a nice brown; dip the ham 
out and put in three tablespoons of vinegar; beat two eggs light; 
add to them, one tablespoon of sugar and one cup of sour cream; 
mix all together and add to the vinegar; when hot pour over the 
lettuce and ham, having them in a dish together, first the lettuce, 
and ham on top. 



TO COOK CANNED MUSHROOMS. 

Open the can and put them in a kettle; let simmer, but do 
not let them boil; after they have been on the stove for about 
five or ten minutes take a sauce pan, put in some butter, salt, 
pepper and cream; let come to a boil; remove the mushrooms to a 
covered dish; pour this over them and serve; before putting to 
cook drain off all the liquor. 



TO FRY GREEN TOMATOES. 

In preparing green tomatoes to fry, it is some more trouble 
than the ripe ones. Slice them moderately thin; put in a dish; 
salt a very little; let stand a few minutes; then drain in a colan- 
der; roll them in flour or batter, whichever is desired; fry in hot 
butter till a crisp brown. 



IOC) THE CAPITAL COOK BOO A'. 



BOILED PARSNIPS. 



Scrape and wash parsnips; cut in halves; put them to cook 
in boiling water; when tender, put in a dish and pour over some 
melted butter and cream sauce; serve with beef. 



TO FRY PARSNIPS. 



Boil the parsnips till tender; then cut them in slices; roll in 
flour and fry in butter till they are brown; put on a hot plate 
and serve. 



STEWED CABBAGE. 



Chop the cabbage as for slaw; put into a granite iron kettle; 
cook till tender; cook very fast, as this is the secret of cabbage 
retaining their flavor and color; when sufficiently done, season 
with salt, pepper and butter; cover closely for a few minutes and 
serve. 



ROASTED CORN. 



Choose corn not quite as tender as for boiling; clean as 
usual, use a gridiron; place the ears on it; have bright coals; 
roast till well done, turning it when done on one side, till all is 
browned nicely. 



VEGETABLES. 107 



CUCUMBERS SERVED WITH CREAM SAUCE. 



Slice the cucumbers modeiately thick; put to cook in salted 
water; cook till tender, and pour over them in a dish, some 
cream sauce. This, when properly cooked, is very nice. 



TO FRY CUCUMBERS. 



Slice the cucumbers lengthwise; put in salted water for a 
few minutes; have the water ice cold; dip out and dry on a 
cloth, or drain in a colander; dredge in flour and fry in hot butter 
till a nice brown. 



TO BOIL GREEN CORN. 



Remove the husks and silks from the corn; put in a steamer, 
set over boiling water, and cook till tender; put in a dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour over some melted butter 
and keep well covered till ready to serve. 



FRIED POTATOES. 



Peel any number of potatoes wished; slice lengthwise, mod- 
erately thin; have your pan hot and half of each, butter and 
lard; let it get very hot and put tiie potatoes in, cover for a few 
minutes, then remove the lid and cook till they are evenly 
browned; salt and pepper when first put in. 



108 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



GREEN BEANS. 

String the beans and break in small pieces; put on to cook 
in hot water, or with meat; if cooked with meat it should be put 
on about two hours before the beans; when adding the beans 
put in a little salt, unless the meat is very salty; let cook till 
done; have a very little water in them when done. If not liked 
cooked with meat, boil as above in hot water, and season when 
done with butter and pepper; some add a little cream. 



TO COOK DRIED WHITE BEANS, 

After washing the beans put them to cook in hot water, in 
which there has been a piece of meat cooking; the meat should 
at least be put to cook one hour before adding the bc-^ans; cook 
about two hours more, and if at all tender, they will be suffic- 
iently cooked; some prefer to season any kind of beans with 
butter; they are very nice either way. 



TO SERUE CELERY. 



Scrape and wash celery; put in ice water until ready to use; 
put in glass dish, or regular celery stand; to be served with the 
vegetables and meats; if dinner is served in courses, celery is 
removed before the dessert is served. 



PUDDINGS AND DUMPLINGS. 109 



Puddings and Dumplings. 



FIG PUDDING. 



2 cups of bread crumbs, 

I large cup of milk, 

4 eggs, 

^ cup of suet, 

y^ cup of sugar, 

Yz dozen figs. • 

Directions: — Soak the bread in the milk; add a pinch of 
soda; chop the figs and beat the eggs till light; chop the suet and 
add to the sugar and milk; mix well together; grease a mold and 
put the pudding in and steam two and a half hours. Serve with 
any good sauce preferred. 



COCOANUT PUDDING. 



I cup of cocoanut, 

I pint of sweet cream, 

3 eggs, 

Yi cup of sugar, 

Y teaspoon of salt. 

Directions: — Whisk the eggs light; grate the cocoanut and 
add the cream, sugar and salt; mix together and put in a butter- 
ed pan; bake until the custard is set. Good with or without 
sauce. 



110 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BEEF PUDDING. 



1 cup of hot water, 

2 pounds of good beef, 

2 cup? of cracker crumbs, 

2 eggs, 

y^ cup of butter, 

2 tablespoons of salt, 

I teaspoon of pepper. 

Directions — Chop the meat fine; add the crackers, salt, 
pepper and butter; put the eggs in after beaten up light; add 
the water; pour in a buttered dish and bake for three quarters of 
an hour in a moderate oven; turn out on a platter and serve. 



PRUNE PUDDING. 



4 cups of flour, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

Yz teaspoon each of cinnamon and nutmeg, 

1 cup of suet, 

2 cups of prunes, 

1 cup of sweet milk, 

I cup of molasses, 

I teaspoon of soda. 
Directions. — Chop suet fine; rub flour in; add nutmeg and 
cinnamon; stone the prunes and chop fine; then add the milk, 
molasses, with the soda dissolved into them; stir well together; 
pour in buttered molds and steam three hours; serve with foamy 
sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND DUMPLINGS. Hi 



RICE PUDDING. 

I cup of rice, 

1 cup of sugar, 

2 cups of milk, 
Whites of 2 eggs, 
3^ cup of butter, 

54^ teaspoon of nutmeg. 

DiRF.cTioNs: — Wash the rice; put in a pudding dish; stir in 
the sugar and sprinkle nutmeg; chop the butter and put on top; 
add the milk; bake very slow, that the rice may be well cooked; 
after it is done, whisk the eggs well, sweeten slightly and flavor 
with nutmeg, spread on top and return to the oven and brown a 
little. Serve with whipped cream. 



SUET PUDDING. 



I cup of suet, 

I cup of raisins, 

]4, teaspoon of cinnamon, 

j^ teaspoon of nutmeg, 

I cup of sweet milk, 

I cup of molasses, 

I egg. 

I teaspoon of salt, 

3 cups of flour, 

I teaspoon of soda. 

DiRFXTiONS— Seed the raisins; chop the suet and raisins; add 
flour, cinnamon and nutmeg; disolve soda in milk, next molasses 
and salt; beat the egg wf^ll; stir well together; put into a but- 
tered pudding dish; boil or steam in a covered dish three hours. 
Serve with brandy sauce. 



1 1 2 THE ^ CA PJ TAL CO OK BO OK. 



STEAMED PUDDING. 

• I cup of sugar, 
Yi cup butter, 
3 eggs, — 3 cups of flour, 
ij^ cups of sweet milk, 

1 teaspoon of soda, 

2 teaspoons of cream of tarter, 
I cup of currants, 

I cup of raisins. 

Directions: — Cream the butter and sugar together; add the 
beaten eggs; next, the milk with soda dissolved in it; sift the 
cream of tartar and flour together, sift into the pudding a little 
at a time; seed raisins, clean the currants and dry them, dredge 
in flour and add last; then put into a buttered mold, set over 
boiling water, steam two hours; serve with cold sauce. 



LEMON PUDDING. 



i^ lb. of butter, 

2 lemons, 

6 crackers, 

Y-z cup of good wine, 

5 eggs, 

I pint of cream, 

I cup of sugar. 

DiRFXTioNs: — Cream the butter and sugar together; roll 
the crackers; add cream, then crackers; extract juice from lemons, 
put this in, grate the rind of one, then add the wine, and eggs 
beaten separately; bake with an under crust and pieces of dough 
on top; served with any sauce preferred. 



PUDDINGS AND DUMPLfNGS. 113 



RICE AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Yi cup of rice, 

1 pint of milk, 

2 eggs, 

14 cup of jelly, 
6 apples, 
I cup of sugar, 
Directions: — Wash the rice; cook in miU^ until done; add 
the yolks and sugar beaten together; boil five minutes longer; 
cook apples whole after being cored; put in a dish; put the jell 
in the centre of the apples; put the rice around the apples and 
beat the whites of the eggs stiff, put over and sprinkle with 
sugar. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS, BAKED— NO 2. 



6 large apples, 

1 lemon, 

Y-z cup of butter, 

I cup of sugar. 
Directions: — Make a paste and core the apples by scraping 
the core out; squeeze the juice from the lemon and roll out the 
paste and put the apples in; leave a small place at the top; put 
in some butter-and sugar and about a teaspoonful of the lemon 
juice; put in a baking pan and bake a nice brown. Serve with 
sauce. 



POT PIE DUMPLINGS. 



1 Yz pints of flour, 

2 small teaspoons of baking powder, 
I teaspoon of salt, 

I egg, 

I cup of water. 

Directions: — Beat egg up light; sift flour and baking 
powder together; add water to this; then the egg and salt; mix 
well and drop on top of chicken or meat that is boiling; cook a 
half an hour; do not have much water around them while cook- 
ing, as being under water makes them soggy. 



114 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BREAD PUDDING. 



3 cups of bread crumbs, 

I cup of brown sugar, 

I pound of beef suet, 

I pound of raisins, 

)^ pound of citron, 

Y-i teaspoon of nutmeg, 

9 eggs, 

I wine glass of brandy 

Yz cup of cream. 

^ teaspoon of soda. 

DiREciiON.s: — Wash the raisins and chop in a bowl with 
suet; first cutting suet with a little flonr added to it; now add 
raisins, orange peel and citron; beat eggs light and put in bread 
crumbs, then the fruit, sugar, and nutmeg; add a pinch of salt; 
put brandy and cream in last. Beat well together and put in a 
pudding bag after being well flavored; boil four hours. Serve 
with any good sauce. 



INDIAN MEAL PUDDING. 



2 pints of sweet milk, 

Yn pint of suet, 

I teaspoon of soda, 

I pint of chopped apples, 

I teaspoon of cinnamon, 

Yi^ teaspoon of salt, 

I cup of molasses. 

DiRKci'ioNs: — Scald the milk; sift in enough meal to make 
a stiff batter; then add the chopped suet and apples; next add 
molasses with the soda dissolved in them. 



PUDDINGS AND DUMPLINGS. 115 



GREEN CORN PUDDING. 



6 ears of corn, 
% cup of sugar, 
y{ cup of butter, 
4 teaspoons of flour, 
3 teaspoons of salt, 
I pint of sweet milk, 
I teaspoon of pepper. 

Directions.— Cut corn from the cob; add the milk; stir the 
sugar and flour together; then add the butter, pepper and salt; 
grease a pan and put in to bake until well done; serve while very 
hot. 



SNOW PUDDING. 



1 cup of hot water, 

2 tablespoons corn starch, moistened in a little cold water. 
Whites of two eggs. 

Directions. — Beat eggs stiff; set pail in hot water, cook 
ten minutes; 'Stir often; wet the cups in cold water, so that 
the pudding will turn out easily; divide equally; set on ice; it 
can be kept on ice two days; turn out on saucers, and pour the 
following custard around: 

Yolks of two eggs, 

y'l cup of sugar, 

Small bit of butter, beaten with y'l cup milk; make in a 
quart measure; set in hot water till it thickens, but not curdled; 
flavor with lemon or vanilla; pour around pudding and serve. 



110 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CORN STARCH PUDDING, 

1 pint of milk, 

2 large tablespoons of corn starch, 
1 egg, 

I pinch of salt, 

^ cup of sugar, 

I small teaspoon of lemon. 

Directions. — Heat the milk; beat the egg and stir in; add 
the sugar, salt and lemon; last the corn starch, dissolved in milk; 
cook till thick; then turn in a mold and let cool; serve with any 
tart sauce, or whipped cream. 



GOLDEN PUDDING. 



1 cup of sugar, 

2 eggs, 

Juice of one lemon, 

1 cup of sweet m Ik, 

4 tablespoons of butter, 
2i/^ cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Directions. — Cream butter and sugar; beat eggs separately; 
add yolks with sugar and butter; beat well; add the flour by 
sifting in; have baking powder sifted in flour; last add juice of 
lemon; bake in shallow pans one-half an hour; serve with the 
following sauce: 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

1 small cup of sugar, 

2 teaspoons of flour, 
I pint boiling water. 
White of one egg, 

I teaspoon of lemon. 
DiKEC'j IONS. — Beat butter and sugar; moisten flour witli a 
little cold water; pour the hot water over and stir the beaten 
white of the egg in, and lemon; cook over boiling water. 



PUDDINGS AND DUMPLINGS. 117 

YANKEE PUDDING. 

5 eggs, 

^ of a box of gelatine, 
I pint-of cold water. 
lYn cups of white sugar, 
I teaspoon of vanilla. 

DiKKCTioNs: — Dissolve the gelatine in the cold water; add 
the sugar and the whites of the eggs whisked till very light; last 
the vanilla; pour into molds; make a custard of the yolks of the 
eggs by using one cup of sugar, one pint of sweet milk and one 
teaspoon of vanilla; cook till it thickens; let cool; turn the 
pudding out into a dish; pour over the custard and serve. 



CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

1 pint of rich milk, 
}4 cup of corn starch, 
j<( teaspoon of salt, 
Yn cup of white sugar, 
1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

DiKKCTioNs: — Scald the milk; whip the eggs light; put the 
sugar in; dissolve corn starch in a little milk; when the milk has 
reached the boiling point, stir in the corn starch; let cook till it 
thickens, then remove from the stove and flavor; pour into cups 
to mold; turn out in sauce dishes. Serve with whipped cream. 



118 THE CAPITAL COOK JWOK. 



FROZEN PUDDING. 



2 eggs, 

1 y2 cups of Hour, 

2 cups of sugar, 

1 large cup of milk, 

2 tablespoons of gelatine, 
I quart of cream, 

I pound of candied fruit. 

Directions. — Let the milk come to a boil; mix tin flour, 
eggs and sugar together and stir in the boiling milk; cook for 
fifteen minutes; then add the gelatine, after soaking it for three 
hours in water enough to cover it; set away to cool; then add the 
sugar and cream; freeze ten minutes; then add the candied fruits; 
then finish freezing; remove the dasher and beat up with a pad- 
dle; pack and set away for several hours; when ready to cerve 
dip in hot water; turn into a glass dish; whip cream; put around 
with some candied fruits in it. 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 



^ cup of sweet milk, 

I egg, 

Y^ cup of tiour, 

I pinch of salt. 

DiRKLTioNs- — Beat the egg till light colored and thick; add 
it to the milk; sift flour and salt and add enough to eggs to make 
a stiff paste; be sure the lumps are all out while it is in the thick 
state; then add tlie rest of the mixture and beat till smooth; pour 
in a brick shaped pan and bake one-half hour in a brisk oven; 
cut in squares and serve with ro'ist beef on a hot i)late. 



FUDDIiYGS AND DUMPLfNGS. 119 



WEST INDIA PUDDING. 



^ of a good sized sponge cake, 

1 pint of cream, 
8 eggs, 

Yn cup of sugar, 

2 ounces of preserved ginger. 

Directions: — -Break the sponge cake up; scald cream and 
sweeten with the sugar; pour over the crumbs, cover till the cake 
is soaked; then add the eggs after being well beaten; butter a 
pudding mold and pour in the mixture; put pieces of ginger 
around the pudding; tie down with a cloth and steam for an hour 
and a half. Serve with the syrup the ginger has been in; pour 
over the pudding. This is nice hot or cold, whichever is de- 
sired. A good sauce for the pudding is: 
I cup of sugar, 
Yz cup of butter, 
I cup of boiling hot wine. 
Directions: — Whip to a foam; flavor with any flavoring de- 
sired, but the wine is all that is needed, as it gives a fine flavor. 



CURRANT PUDDING. 



I quart of milk, 
4 eggs, 

1 cup of sugar, 

2 cups of ripe currant juice. 

Directions: — Put milk, sugar and beaten eggs together; 
have several slices of stale bread; lay in a baking pan and pour 
over the custard of milk, sugar and eggs; bake in a moderate 
oven and pour over them the cups of juice with one cup of white 
sugar stirred into it and the whites of two eggs beaten stiff and 
dropped in hot water a moment and put over the top of the 
pudding before sending to the table. 



120 77//? CAPJTAl. COOK BOOK. 



BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 



3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 

yi^ teacup of butter, 

y^ teaspoon of salt, 

Whites of 2 eggs, 

I cup of milk, 

8 large sized apples. 

I cup of sugar. 
Directions. — Put flour, after baking powder has been put 
into it, in a mixing bowl; add salt, butter and milk; rub the but- 
ter in the dry flour; beat the egg stiff and add; then the sugar; 
make out; roll in pieces large enough to cover one apple; put 
dumplings in a greased baking pan, and put enough sugar and 
butter in to season them nicely; add a little cinnamon; when they 
are done remove from pan and place on pie plates; serve with 
any good sauce. 



BOILED DUMPLINGS, NO. L 

6 good ripe apples, 

yo, cup of sour milk, 

]/^ teaspoon of soda, 

y^ teaspoon of salt. 

I tablespoon of lard. 
DiRKCTiONS. — Sift flour into mixing bowl; put lard in; mix 
well in the flour; add salt and soda, disolved in the milk; make 
a stiff paste; roll out; pare the apples and halve them; put in 
crust and fasten them up — only a small place at top; put in small 
sacks; salt sacks is nice for them; flour inside; put in boiling water 
and cook until well done; then remove and serve while warm; 
eat with any good sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND DUMPLINGS. 121 



STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 



2 cups of milk. 

4 eggs, 

2 cups of cake crumbs, 

I small cup of sugar, 

1 small cup of butter, 

2 cups of strawberries. 

Directions. — Soak the cake crumbs in the milk; beat the 
butter and yolks of the eggs, and whites of two; then add to the 
milk; stir well together and bake some longer than thirty 
minutes; then pour the berries over the top, after cleaning and 
hulling; spread over this a meringue of the whites of the two eggs 
and one cup of sugar; flavor with vanilla; place in the oven a few 
moments; serve with cream. 



PEACH DUMPLINGS. 



Take as many ripe peaches as dumplings wanted; pare 
them and sprinkle sugar over them and let stand a few minutes; 
make a crust a little richer than biscuit dough; roll out about a 
quarter of an inch thick; put one peach to each piece of dough; 
roll over and pinch the dough together; add a small piece of 
butter and about one teaspoon of water to each dumpling; bake 
in a rather quick oven till well done; serve with any good sauce 
that is preferred. 



122 rilE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



Pies. 

PUFF PASTE, FOR PIES OR PUDDINGS. 

I pound of butter, 

I pound of flour, 

I cup of ice water. 
Directions:— Have all the water out of the butter; divide 
in two parts; sift flour; divide same as the butter. Put the flour 
in a mixing bowl, chop one half of the butter in; now take the 
ice water and begin to mix butter with flour; add the water little 
at a time until all is used; now take out of bowl and lay on the 
molding board and roll out, and as )'ou do this, keep adding a 
little of the remaining butter and flour; sprinkle on until all is 
used; turn over and roll together. This an excellent paste. 



FLAKY PIE CRUST. 



Use two tablespoons ot lard and a sprinkle of salt to every 
pie; if the lard is very cold, warm a little and add to the flour; 
have th.e water cold, but not quite ice cold; mix with a spoon, as 
it makjs it more flaky than to mix with the hands; do not knead 
more *han possible. This will, if properly made, almost melt 
in the mouth. 



PIES. 123 



OLDEN TIME PIE CRUST. 

I cup of lard, 
I cup of butter, 
Yr. teaspoon of salt, 
Y-y cup of sour milk, 
yl teaspoon of soda. 

DiRKcriONs. — Sift flour into mixing bowl; cut the lard in; 
then the butter and salt; mix till powdered fine; add soda, dis- 
solved in the sour milk; make a stiff dough; have the shortening 
and milk cold; this is very nice for all kinds of fruit pies, and for 
pudding also. 



POTATO CRUST. 



1 cup of mashed potatoes, 

2 cups of milk, 

2 tablespoons of l)utter, 

I teaspoon of baking powders. 
DiRi-XTioNS. — Boil and mash potatoes; add this to the flour, 
then the butter chopped in; next add the milk slowly; sift the 
baking powders with some of the flour and add to the other; 
make as stiff as ordinary pie crust. 



TO GLACE PIE CRUST. 



I teas[)oon of sugar, 

Di RK( iioNs. — Beat the white of the egg; add the sugar. 
This is used to prevent any of the juice of fruit pies soaking in 
the crust, also improves the appearance of the tops of biscuits, 
rusks and ginger cakes. 



124 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CHICKEN PIE 

I good sized chicken, 

Yz cup of butter. 
Cook cliicken so it will fall from the bones; take out, cool 
and strip from the bones; then have a crust similar to biscuit 
dough only richer; line a good sized baking pan with a crust, 
then put in a layer of chicken, then some butter; now roll out 
some dough thin as possible; cut in small pieces; cover the layer 
of chicken; use butter, crust and chicken till all is used up; then 
take some of the gravy the chicken was cooked in and thicken it 
a little and pour over almost a teacupful; cover with strips of 
dough; send to the oven and bake slowly until well done. 



MINCE MEAT. 



5 pounds of chopped meat, 
2 pounds of suet, 

2 cups of raisins, 
2 cups of currants, 
)A pound of citron, 
2 cups of brown sugar, 
2 cups of molasses, 

6 cups of chopped apples, 

1 tablespoon of salt, 

2 tablespoons of cinnamon, 

1 nutmeg, 

2 cups of chopped tigs, 
1 tablespoon of cloves, 
I tablespoon of spicc, 

I quart of cider, 

I pint of brandy. 
DiRF.ciioNs: — Cook meat very tender; get b.ef neck, as it 
makes nicer pies than any other part of the beef; chop suet and 
fruit, after seeding the raisins and cleaning the currants; add the 
fruit to the meat and suet; then the spices; next the sugar, mo- 
lasses, brandy and cider. If you prefer, the brandy may be 
omitted, but witli it the meat will keep longer. Cirate the nut- 
meg in; add the salt. This will be a large enout;h (]uantity for 
an ordinary sized famil}'. This very rich and nice. 



PIES. 125 



MINCE PIE. 



1 cup of good mince meat, 
^ cup of sugar, 

2 tablespoons of water. 

Directions. — Have a nice light pie crust, line a pie tin; put 
the meat in; put sugar and water on top of meat; have two 
crusts; bake not too brown, unless, needed right away, as they 
will be warmed before serving. 



GREEN TOMATO PIE. 



3 medium sized tomatoes, 

I cup of sugar, 

I orange, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

I sprinkle of cinnamon, 

Y-i cup of chopped raisins. 

Directions. — Slice the tomatoes very thin; line a pie tin 
with rich crust; put the tomatoes and raisins in; sprinkle the 
sugar over; add the butter, cinnamon and juice of the orange; 
bake with an upper crust. 

PIE PLANT PIE. 

I large cup of sliced pie plant, 

1 cup of sugar, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

I tablespoon of flour. 

Directions: — Slice pie plant round ways; make a good 
crust; add the flour to sugar and put the pie plant in them; 
sprinkle sugar and flour over it; bake with upper crust; at first 
bake rather slow, until the pie plant has time to cook and ex- 
tract the juice, as no water is put in this pie. 



12G THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BLACK BERRY PIE. 



I pint of berries, 
xY-z cups of sugar, 
I teaspoon of flour. 

Directions. — Have crust same as other berry pies; roll out; 
line a pie tin and put berries in, after being washed and drained 
of all the water; add flour ta the sugar; sprinkle over the berries; 
bake with an upper crust; do not put any water in unless berries 
are not very ripe, then onl}' about one tablespoonful. 



PINEAPPLE PIE 



)4 of a pineapple, 

I cup of white sugar, 

I tablespoon of lemon juice, 

I tablespoon of brandy. 

Directions. — Pare and grate the pineapple; add sugar and 
lemon juice; then roll your crust out and put in pie tin; put in 
and cover with strips of the paste; bake in a rather quick oven; 
add brandy last; serve with creamy sauce. 



LEMON FRUIT PIE. 



I cup of raisins, 

I lemon, 

I cup of sugar, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

3 tablespoons of water. 

Directions. — Stone and chop the raisins; use pulp and 
juice of the lemon; bake with two crusts; this is very nice and 
as rich as mince pie. 



PIES. 127 



SQUASH PIE. 



y^ pint of squash, 

Yz cup of white sugar, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

I cup of sweet milk, 

I egg, 

I teaspoon of cinnamon. 

Directions:- — Bake any good, mealy squash. After bak- 
ing scrape the meat from the rind; add beaten eggs, sugar and 
milk; butter and cinnamon; beat well. Any other spices or 
flavoring may be used. Bake with an under crust; brown nicely 
on top. The pie is better if a little sugar and butter is put on 
top before sending to the oven. Sprinkle some cinnamon on, 
too, it will brown nicer. 



SLICED APPLE PIE. 



2 good sized apples. 
I cup of white sugar, 
I tablespoon of flour, 
I tablespoon of butter, 
y^ teaspoon of nutmeg, 
yl cup of hot water. 

Directions: — ^Slice apples very thin; make a crust very light 
and rich; roll out moderately thick; put in a good sized pie tin; 
put apples in, sprinkle sugar in with the flour^ — mixed with it, 
next the butter cut into pieces, now nutmeg and hot water; 
make with an upper crust; bake rather fast. 



128 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



MOCK MINCE MEAT. 



8 crackers, 

y^ cup of butter, 

I cup of molasses, 

I cup of sugar, 

\y^ cups of cider, 

y2 cup of raisins, 

^2 cup of currants, 

^ teaspoon of spice, 

i^ teaspoons of cinnamon. 

Directions:— Put butter, molasses, cider, and crackers 
mashed fine, together; seed raisins, clean currants; add them and 
the spices; cook about twenty minutes; remove from the stove 
and keep in a cool place. This will make a number of pie?. 



PRESERVE PIE. 



1 cup of any kind of preserves. 
yz cup of thick sweet cream, 
y cup of butter, 

2 eggs, 

y^ cup of sugar, 

I tablespoon of flour. 

Directions: — Make a nice crust; lino a deep pie tin; mix 
the preserves, butter and sugar with the flour; then beat the 
yolks of the eggs light and add to the cream, beat all well to- 
gether; then put in the tins and bake rather quick; ice with the 
whites of the eggs and a half a cup of sugar; flavor with some 
good tart jelly; ice and set in the stove a few minutes. 



PIES. 129 



COCOANUT PIE, NO. 2. 



Y2 cocanut, grated, 

2 eggs, 

lYz cups of sugar, 

^ cup of butter, 

^ cup of milk. 
DiRFXTiONS. — Grate cocoanut; rub butter and sugar to- 
gether; add the eggs, beaten separately; next the milk; last the 
cocoanut sprinkled in; bake with one crust; ice on top. 



PUMPKIN PIE. 



I cup of pumpkin, 
I small cup of sugar, 

1 cup of sweet cream, 

2 eggs, 

I teaspoon of cinnamon. 
Directions. — Cook pumpkin well; pass through a colander; 
beat whites of the eggs separate from the yolks; add yolks and 
white of one egg, sugar and cinnamon; last cream; bake with an 
under crust; ice with the white of the egg left; put in oven and 
brown slightly. 



VINEGAR PIE. 



I tablespoon of butter, 

y^ cup of vinegar, 

^ cup of hot water, 

i^ cup of sugar, 

I egg, 

I teaspoon of flour, 

I teaspoon of lemon extract, 
UiRF.CTiONs.^ — Put vinegar and water together; then add 
sugar and flour, mixed together; then the butter and beaten ^g%\ 
set over hot water and cook till it thickens; remove from stove 
and flavor with lemon; line pie tins with puff paste and pour the 
mixture in; bake with an under crust. 



130 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



COCOANUT PIE, NO 1. 



I cup of grated cocoanut, 

1 cup of white sugar, 
Whites of four eggs, 

4 tablespoons of good cream, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 
I teaspoon rose extract. 

Directions. — Beat the sugar and butter; add the cocoanut, 
cream and rose extract, a little at a time; beat the whites stiff; 
add them, beating very light; bake with an under crust in a 
rather quick oven. 



LEMON TARTS. 



3 lemons, 

1 cup of water, 

Yo cup of blanched almonds, 

2 cups of sugar, 

i tablespoon of flour, _ >• 

I tablespoon of butter. 
Directions. — Pare lemons, roll them and press out the 
juice; have a sharp knife; cut the lemon up; add the juice and 
sugar with the flour; add butter and blanched, chopped almonds 
last; cook till thick; have some tart pans lined with good crust; 
fill with the filling and bake; put currant jelly on top, when cool. 



LEMON PIE NO. L 



1 cup of water, 

"i cup of white sugar, 

2 teaspoonfuls corn starch, 
Yolks of two eggs, 

Rind and juice of 2 lemons. 
Directions. — Place water and sugar on stove; when it boils 
thirken with the corn starch; take from the fire and stir in yolks 
of eggs, well beaten, and the grated rind and juice of the lemons; 
bake the crust partly; then fill and bake till done; ice and set in 
oven till brown. This is excellent. 



PIES. 131 

LEMON PIE, NO. 2. 

I cup of cream, 

I cup of sugar, 

I tablespoon of flour, 

Whites of 2 eggs, 

Juice of 2 lemons, 

Rind of I lemon, 

Directions: — Sift sugar and flour together, add this to the 
juice of the lemons, then stir in the cream and eggs beaten well;* 
heat over boiling water till it cooks and begins to thicken, then 
remove and grate in the rind, and bake with an under crust. 
Remove when done, and beat one egg with one-half cup of sugar, 
and spread on top of pie. Return to the stove; brown slightly. 



LEMON PIE, NO. 3. 



I cup of white sugar, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

I egg, 

I lemon, 

1 teacup of. hot water, 

I tablespoon of corn starch. 

DiRFXTioNS: — Dissolve corn starch in cold water, then stir 
in the hot water, cream, butter and sugar; pour over the hot 
mixture. When cold add the lemon juice, rind, and egg well 
beaten. Bake without an upper crust. 



LEMON PIE, NO. 4. 



1 tablespoon of butter, 

2 cups of sugar, 
4 eggs, 

Juice and rind of 2 lemons, 
I teacup of milk. 

Directions: — Cream the butter and sugar together; add 
lemon juice, then the milk, after this grated rind of the lemon. 
This will make two pies in large pans. To be baked with an 
under crust. 



132 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BANANNA PIE. 



3 good sized banannas, 

I cup of cream, 

I tablespoon of orange juice, 

Yo, cup cf white sugar. 

Directions: — Make a rich crust; line pan and slice the ban- 
annas thin; put in pan, then sprinkle sugarover; then beat cream 
up, but do not whip it; pour over, and last add the orange juice; 
bake and cover with a meringue made with the whites of two 
eggs, one half cup of sugar; flavor with orange juice; spread on 
top and set in the oven to brown. 



FRIED PEACH PIE, 



I pint of stewed peaches, 
Yz cup of sugar. 
Flavor with nutmeg. 

Directions: — Make a crust a little richer than biscuit 
dough, but have it light; roll out and cut in pieces about the 
size of saucers; mash the peaches; add the sugar and put about 
two tablespoons on each pie; roll over and fry in hot grease un- 
til a nice brown. To be eaten with cream or sauce. 



CRANBERRY PIE. 



I pint of cranberries, mashed line, 
I large cup of sugar, 
I tablespoon of butter. 

Directions: — Put cranberries in a sauce pan; put in about 
one half cup of hot water and the sugar and butter; stew till 
well done; then remove from the fire and have a crust ready 
baked; mash fine and put in the pan and sprinkle a little powder- 
ed sugar over top and return to the oven a few minutes. 



PIES. 133 



CREAM RASPBERRY TARTS. 



I quart ripe berries, 

I cup of white sugar, 

I cup cream, 

Whites of two eggs. 

I teaspoon of flour. 
DiRFX'TiONS.- — Make a nice, rich puff paste; pick berries; 
wash and drain; roll out paste and put in tart shells; put top on 
and bake; remove top and put the berries in, and put cream, 
flour and sugar together; cook till it thickens; then beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; stir in; lift top and pour in and 
serve. 



HAM PATTIES. 



Make a rather rich dough for crusts; line patty pans; fill in 
with cold boiled ham, cut in small pieces; fill the pans and pour 
over the following: Make a rich gravy, by putting some butter 
in a frying pan and add some flour; let brown, and put enough 
cream in to make it as thick as desired, then salt and pepper; 
cover the meat with this and put a top crust on; send to the 
oven and cook till the crust is well done; serve at once, or it is 
nice cold and warmed over in a slow oven. 



APPLE PIE WITH MERRINGUE, 



I pint of mashed apples, 
I small cup of sugar, 
I tablespoon of butter, 
I teaspoon of lemom juice. 

Directions.— Cook good tart apples well done; remove 
from kettle and press through a colander; add butter, sugar and 
lemon juice; bake with an under crust; merringue tor top is 
made with one egg, well beaten, one-fourth cup of sugar, one- 
fourth teaspoon of lemon; put this on top of pie; set in oven a 
few minutes till a light broAvn. 



134 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



LUNCHEON PATTIES. 

I pound of boiled chicken, 

I can of mushrooms, 

I cup chicken gravy, 

I cup of milk, 

I tablespoon of flour, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

Y-z teaspoon of pepper, 

I lemon. 

DiRKC'i'fONS: — Boil the chicken until very tender; chop fine; 
add the mushrooms after being removed from the liquor in the 
can; add the gravy, salt and pepper; boil the milk and thicken 
with the flour; now add the butter, last the lemon juice; mix 
well; put in a pan and heat well, but do not let it boil. Fill 
dainty patty shells and it is ready to serve. 



RASPBERRY TARTS AND CREAM. 

I quart of ripe berries, 
I pint of white sugar, 
Whites of two eggs, 
I pint of cream. 

Directions: — Make a nice puff paste; line the tmsand bake; 
take out and have the berries mashed and sugar and cream add- 
ed and fill in; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 
one half a cup of sugar and one teaspoon of rose extract; spread 
on top and put in the oven only a minute; do not let brown too 
much. Serve with whipped cream or any good sauce. 



PIES. 135 



CREAM PIE, NO. 1. 



I cup of sugar, 

I cup of flour, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

yn teaspoon of soda, 

3 eggs, 

I teaspoon of lemon extract. 

• Directions. — Beat eggs separately; add sugar lightly, with 
the yolks of the eggs; sift flour, cream of tartar and soda three 
times, add the whites; then sift in flour lightly; last add flavoring; 
put in jelly cake tins and bake in a quick oven; be sure and line 
the tins with paper; take out of pans and let cool; add the fol- 
lowing filling: 2 eggs, i cup of sugar, Y-z cup of flour, i pint of 
cream, i teaspoon of lemon; beat eggs light; add cream; then 
sugar and flour mixed together; set in boiling water to cook; 
when thick remove from stove; when partly cold add lemon; fill 
in between layers. 



CREAM PIE, NO. 2. 



5 eggs, 

I cup of flour, 

I cup of white sugar, 

I teaspoon of baking powder. 

Dirp:ctions. — Beat eggs separately; add flour and sugar, to- 
gether, after baking powder has been sifted in; sift this in the 
eggs; mix up quickl}', and make three layers; use the following 
filling: I pint of whipped cream, i teaspoon of vanilla, Yz cup 
of sugar; whip cream very stiff; add sugar lightly; and flavoring 
last; mix; then after the layers have cooled, put between layers, 
and on top; serve immediately, or if liked, it will improve it by 
setting on ice a few minutes. This is very nice. 



136 thp: capital cook book. 



GRAPE PIE. 

I pint of ripe grapes, 

1 cup of sugar, 

2 good sized crackers, 

I tablespoon of thick cream. 

Directions: — Remove seeds from the grapes; line a pie tin 
with light rich crust; put in grapes, then sugar and crackers, 
pounded fine. Bake with strips on top. 



TARLATAN PIE. 



Yo cup of cream. 
I cup of sugar, 
I cup of apples, 

1 egg, 

2 teaspoons of lemon juice. 

DiRFxTioNS: — Stew apples tender; pass through a colander; 
add the cream, beaten egg, and sugar; next the lemon. Bake 
with one crust and serve with cream. 



PRUNE PIE. 



I cup of prunes, 

I cup of sugar, 

y2 cup of boiled cider. 
DiRF.CTioNs: — Cook prunes done; remove the pits; mash fine 
and add sugar and boiled cider; make a nice crust; put in the 
mixture and put on an upper crust and bake in a moderate oven. 



PIES. 137 



PEACH COBBLER. 

1 dozen ripe peaches, 

2 cups of white sugar, 
J^ cup of hot water. 

Directions: — Pare and slice the peaches; lay on a plate and 
sprinkle sugar over; take a nice rich pie dough; roll out same as 
for any other pie; line a deep pie dish; put in some peaches; 
then thin slices of the dough; then another layer of peaches and 
dough till all is used; cover top with crust. Just before sending 
to the oven, put a half a cup of hot water in and bake in a mod- 
erate oven, as the under and top crusts will be done before the 
peaches and inside dough are done. Serve with good cream. 
This makes a large pie. 



IRISH POTATO PIE. 



2 good sized potatoes, 

1 pint sweet milk, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

3 eggs, 

1/2 glass good brandy, 
y^ teaspoon of nutmeg, 
^ cup of sugar. 

Directions: — Grate the potato; add butter and sugar beat- 
en well together; then the milk and yolks of the eggs and the 
white of one; reserve the other two whites for frosting; add 
brandy and nutmeg just before putting in the oven; bake with an 
under crust in a quick oven; ice with one small cup of sugar and 
the whites of the two eggs and flavor with lemon. Spread on 
top and set in the oven till a nice brown. 



138 TITE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



RASPBERRY PIE. 



I pint of berries, 

1 cup of white sugar, 

2 tablespoons of hot water, 
I tablespoon of butter, 

I teaspoon of flour. 

Directions.- — Take nice, ripe berries; wash them and drain; 
have a nice crust; mix flour and sugar together; add this to the 
berries; stir together; then put in the pie; add butter and water; 
bake with a top crust. 



APPLE TARTS. 



I pint of mashed apples, 

^ cup of cream, 

I cup of sugar, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

I teaspoon of cinnamon. 

DikKCTiONS. — Cook apples well; mash fine; add sugar, 
cream and butter; last cinnamon; mix all well together; roll out 
your paste and line tart pans; fill in the mixture and bake in a 
quick oven; after removing from stove, sprinkle some sugar over 
the top; any good jelly may be put over them if desired. 



DATE AND APPLE PIE. 



I cup of dates, 
I cup of chopped apples, 
Y-i cup of sugar, 
^ cup of water. 
Directions. — Stone the dates; chop the apples line; add the 
sugar and water; bake with two crusts. 



PIES. 1^9 



CURRANT PIE. 



1 pint of currants, 

2 small cups of sugar, 
I tablespoon of flour, 
I tablespoon of water. 

Directions: — Pick the currants from the stems and wash 
them; line a pie tin with a rich crust; put currants in and add 
sugar, flour and water; have two crusts; bake in a quick oven, as 
currants are easily cooked and if baked slow the juice will soak 
in the crust. 



CHICKEN TARTS. 



. I cup of chopped chicken, 
I cup of rich gravy, 
i^ teaspoon of pepper, 
I tablespoon of butter. 

DiREC'i'iONs: — Make a rich puff paste; chop the chicken; any 
other meats can be substituted for the chicken; add pepper and 
butter; salt while cooking, as it imparts a better flavor; pour in 
the gravy, roll paste out and bake in small pans until the gravy 
is mixed well with the chicken. 

PEACH PIE. 



1 large cup of ripe peaches, 
I cup of white sugar. 

Directions: — Make a rich crust; roll and bake in a pie tin, 
quick, but a nice brown, put one layer in the tin and grease it 
slightly with butter, and put the other layer on top; when nicely 
browned remove from the oven; separate and put cup of peaches 
with the sugar and fill in and put top on again and serve with 
whipped cream. 



140 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CANNED PEACH PIE. 



I can of peaches, 
i^z cups of sugar, 
I tablespoon of flour. 

Directions: — Make a rich crust; line a pie tin; slice peaches; 
put in; add the flour to sugar and sprinkle over the peaches; put 
in some of the syrup from the peaches; bake with two crusts; 
this makes two pies. 



SWEET POTATO PIE. 



I large sweet potato, 
yz cup of white sugar, 
I tablespoon of butter, 
I teaspoon of cinnamon, 
^ cup of cream. 

Directions. — Cook potatoes till well done; slice thin; make 
a good crust; put in a pie tin; put the sliced potato in; cut the 
butter and add to it; next put sugar in, and cream and cinnamon; 
bake with an upper crust or without, whichever is preferred. 



STRAWBERRY PIE. 



I pint of nice large berries, 
I cup of white sugar, 
I cup of good cream. 

DiRKcrioNs. — Make a rich crust; line a pie tin; bake in a 
quick oven; take out and have berries picked and washed; put 
sugar over them; stir up and put in the tin; whip the cream and 
put over the top of pie; put on ice at least one-halt an hour 
before serving. 



PIES. 141 

LEMON POTATO PIE. 

I cup of sugar, 

I large Irish potato, 

^ cup of water, 

I lemon, 

y^ cup of butter, 

I tablespoon of flour. 

Directions: — Grate the potato; add sugar, butter, and 
juice of the lemon and grated rind; now the water and flour; 
rub butter and flour together. Bake with two crusts. 



ORANGE TART. 



3 large oranges, 
I y-z cups of sugar, 
I tablespoon of butter, 
Yo cup of water. 

Dirp:ctions: — Squeeze juice and pulp from the oranges; 
add the sugar, butter and water; put in a kettle, cook till it thick- 
ens; pour out and bake crust as usual for tarts, fill with with 
the mixture; ice the top of them; set in the oven a few minutes 
till a delicate brown. 



RIPE TOMATO PIE. 



3 good sized tomatoes, 
I cup of brown sugar, 
Y-z cup of cream, 
I tablespoon of flour. 
Y teaspoon of nutmeg. 

Directions: — Slice tomatoes, line a pie tin with good rich 
paste; put tomatoes in, then add the flour to the sugar and put 
in; last, the cream and nutmeg. Bake with two crusts in a mod- 
erate oven. 



142 THE CAPITAL COOK: BOOK. 



CHERRY PIE. 



I pint of ripe cherries. 
i)'2 cups of white sugar, 
I tablespoon of butter. 

Directions. — Remove the pits; make a nice puff paste; line 
a deep pie plate; squeeze all the juice out of cherries that you 
can; then put cherries, and the sugar and butter in; set in the 
oven and bake till well done. Do not have oven too hot, or the 
crust will be done before the cherries. 



JELLY PIE. 

I glass of any good jelly, 
I pint of thick cream, 
I cup of sugar, 
1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

DiRKCTioNs. — Make a very light, rich crust; line tart shells; 
beat jelly up well. This will make about six tarts, if a common 
sized glass of jelly is used. Whip the cream stiff; flavor and 
sweeten with sugar; after they have been baked, put the jelly 
in; then the whipped cream on top; send to the table immedi- 
ately. 



GOOSEBERRY PIE. 



I pint of gooseberries, 
i^ cup sof sugar, 
I tablespoon of flour, 
I tablespoon of butter. 

DiRKCTiONS.- — ^Take light, rich pie dough and line pie tins; 
stew bc-rries and put in the pies; add flour to sugar; sift in last; 
add butter; then put top on pie and bake quickly, to a nice 
brown. Sometimes a pinch of soda added when berries are put 
in, takes that sharp, acid taste from them. 



PIES. 143 



CRANBERRY AND RAISIN PIE. 



I cup of cranberries, 
y^ cup of raisins, 

1 cup of sugar, 

2 tablespoons of water, 
I tablespoon of flour, 

I tablespoon of butter. 

Directions. — Pick and stone the raisins; wash the cran- 
berries; have a nice crust made; roll out and sprinkle with flour; 
add raisins, cranberries and sugar, with flour mixed in it; last 
add butter; do not use only the two tablespoons of water; bake 
with two cru?ts. 



OYSTER PIE. 



I can of fresh oysters, 

I egg, 

I cup of powdered crackers, 

I teaspoon of pepper, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

I tablespoon of butter. 

Directions. — Make a nice, rich crust; line a pan, and put 
some oysters in; then a layer of crackers; then oysters, etc., 
till all is used; beat egg light; add to the liquor, the egg, pepper, 
salt and butter; heat and pour over the other mixture in the pan; 
put a tO)) crust on and bake in a quick oven. 



144 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



SUGAR PIE. 



I cup of brown sugar, 

^ cup of butter, 

I tablespoon of flour, 

1 teaspoon of lemon extract, 

2 eggs, 

y{ cup of cream. 

Directions. — Whip the eggs well; add the butter and flour; 
mix together, and add the cream and flavoring; bake with an 
under crust; ice the top if preferred. It is excellent. 



CHOCOLATE PIE. 



I cup of cream, 
^ cup of flour, 
I cup of sugar, 

1 teaspoon of vanilla, 

2 eggs, 

% cup of grated chocolate. 

Directions. — Heat the cream; mix the flour with the sugar 
and add; whip the yolks of the eggs light and add them; cook a 
few minutes and add the chocolate; last the flavoring; make a 
rich paste and line a tin and pour the filling in; bake in a rather 
quick oven, as the filling is already cooked; ice the top with the 
whites of the two eggs. This makes a large pie and is very rich. 



LAYER CAKES. 14:1 



Layer Cakes. 



APPLE SHORT CAKE. 



1 cup of sugar, 
^ cup of butter, 
Yz cup of milk, 

2 cups of flour, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
y^ teaspoon of soda. 
Directions: — Mix as other cakes and bake in jelly tins. 

FILLING. 

3 large apples, 
I egg, 

I cup of sugar, 

I lemon. 

Directions for filling: — Grate the apples; beat the egg; 
add juics and grated rind of the lemon; let come to a boil; spread 
between layers of cake. 



JELLY CAKE ROLL. 



13^2 cups of white sugar, 2 eggs, 

2 cups of flour, I teaspoon of lemon. 

2 small teaspoons of baking powder. 

Directions: — Beat eggs well together; add sugar and mix 
well; now sift in flour and baking powder sifted together; add 
flavoring; bake in a bread pan; line with paper; remove from 
pan and when cooled a little, spread with any good jelly and 
roll up. Ice with one egg, i cup of pulverized sugar; flavor 
with lemon. Before putting on cake, put one tablespoon of 
jelly in the icing and spread over the rolls. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



146 TriE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 

PINE APPLE SHORT CAKE. 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

2 tablespoons of sugar, 

4 tablespoons of sweet milk, 

I egg, 

^ cup of flour, 

I teaspoon of baking powder. 

Directions: — Beat butter, sugar and eggs together; add 
milk and flour with the baking powder sifted in; bake in a deep 
jelly tin; when done, cool and split in the centre and add the 
following filling: Slice very thin some canned pme apples; have 
about a cupful after sliced; lay this between cake and sprinkle 
with sugar. For the top take white of one egg; j^ cup of loaf 
sugar; 2 tablespoons of pine apple juice; beat till stiff; put on top 
of cake and send to the table immediately. Serve with whip- 
ped cream or any sauce. 



AUTUMN CAKE. 



2 cups of granulated sugar, 
I small cup of butter. 

1 cup of cold water, 
3^ cups of flour. 
Whites of 7 eggs, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 

I teaspoon of strawberry flavoring. 
DiRKCTioNs: — Mix butter and sugar together, add the cup of 
of water and one half of the flour; beat this a few minutes; then 
sift in the remaining flour with the baking powder; next add the 
whites beaten stifl; add a little at a time; last the flavoring. 
Make icing with i cup of loaf sugar, whites of 2 eggs beaten to- 
gether stifl, then spread on layers and put currant jelly over this, 
then take some plain icing and put in two tablespoons chocolate; 
put over the currant jelly. This gives the autumnal eflect. 



LAYER CAKES. 147 



CHOCOLATE CAKE, NO. 2. 



2 cups of white sugar, 
4 eggs, 

I cup of sweet milk, 

3 cups of flour, 

1 teaspoon of vanilla, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Directions. — Cream butter, sugar and yolks of the eggs to- 
gether; add milk and flour; next whites of eggs, beaten well; last 
baking powder, sifted in a little flour; bake in jelly tins, very 
soft. 

Directions for Filling: Whites of three eggs, beaten 
stiff, two cups of pulverized sugar, one cake of chocolate, one 
teaspoon of vanilla; beat eggs; add sugar; grate the chocolate in 
and add flavoring; then spread between layers and on top of 
cake. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE. NO. 1. 

yi cup of butter, 

1 large cup of sugar. 
Yolks of 6 eggs, 

-/I cup of cream, 
3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Directions. — Beat butter, sugar and yolks for five minutes; 
then add some sifted flour, with baking powder sifted several 
times into it. 

Filling: i cake of chocolate, i tablespoon of butter, i cup 
of sweet cream, ^ cup of brown sugar. 

Directions. — Grate chocolate and add to cream, and butter 
and sugar, cooked over the fire till it is boiling, and seems sticky; 
remove from fire and beat thoroughly, and put between layers of 
cake; have three layers. This is excellent. 



148 THE CAPITAL COOK ROOK. 



CARAMEL CAKE, NO 2. 



1 cup of butter, 

2 cups of sugar, 

I cup of sweet milk, 

1 cup of corn starch, 
Whites of six eggs, 

2 cups of flour, 

2 tablespoons of baking powder, 
I teaspoon of vanilla. 

Directions: — Cream butter and sugar together; add some 
milk and flour alternately till all the flour is used; stir the beat- 
en whites in next; then corn starch with baking powder; last 
vanilla: beat all ten minutes; bake in jelly tins, quick and soft. 

Filling: — One cup of white sugar; one-third cup of cold 
water; one-fourth cup of butter; one teaspoon of vanilla; boil 
five minutes without stirring; remove from the fire and stir till 
white and creamy but not too hard; put between layers and on 
top. It must be done quickly as it hardens very fast. 



CARAMEL CAKE, NO. 3. 



2 cups of sugar, 
I cup of butter, 
I cup of milk, 
4 cups of flour, 

1 teaspoon of vanilla, 
Whites of 6 eggs, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

DiRF.CTiONS: — Cream sugar and butter, add milk and two 
cups of flour; next add whites of the eggs and remaining flour, 
with baking powder sifted into it; bake in jelly tins, in a quick 
oven; let partly cool, have filling ready, spread between and on top 
of cake and ice, covering on top and sides. FiLi.iNc — Two cups 
of brown sugar, one cup of milk, one tablespoon of butter, two 
teaspoons of vanilla. Put butter, sugar, and milk in a sauce 
pan cook till thick; remove and beat till cool; add vanilla last. 



LAYER CAKES. 149 



NEW ORLEANS CHOCOLATE CAKE. 



Y-z cup of butter, 

2 small cups of loaf sugar, 

1 cup of milk, 

2 cups of flour, 
4 egRs, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I teaspoon of lemon extract, 
]A, cake of Baker's chocolate. 

Directions. — Cream the butter and sugar together; then 
add the milk and one cup of flour alternately; sift the baking 
powder and grated chocolate with the remaining cup of flour 
two or three times; last add the whites of the eggs; mix well and 
put in buttered tins, bake quick and soft; put together with 
cooked icing; for the top put some grated chocolate in the icing, 
but have it as white as possible on the sides. This is a very- 
pretty cake as well as nice. 



STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. NO. 1. 



I quart of flour, 
I pint of cream, 
i^ cups of white sugar, 

1 teaspoon of soda, 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 

Directions: — Mix by stirrmg in and out, not round and 
round; before the flour is all mixed in turn out on board, divide 
the dough, roll out one half and butter it, roll the other half 
and lay it evenly over this; bake quick as possible without 
burning; sweeten the berries and have them ready to spreid on; 
as soon as the cakes comes from the oven, lift off the top, put 
the berries on the under part, turn the crust side down next to 
the berries, fill the top; set in the oven five minutes; have pre- 
pared whipped cream, pour this over just as sent to the table, 
after cutting in slices. 



150 THE CAP/7 A/. COOA' BOOK. 



STKAWHEKKY SHORT CAKE. NO. 2. 



2 cups of Hour, 

i^ teaspoons of baking powder, 

^ cup of butter, 

y^ cup of milk, 

Y-z cup of white sugar. 

DiKF.c'i i()Nf<: — Sift the fiour and baking powder together; add 
butter cold, and mix thoroughly with the flour; then add milk to 
sugar, and make a stiff paste; roll out about one-fourth of an 
inch thick, put in a pie .tin one layer over the other; bake quick; 
remove from pan, spread with butter; prepare berries by stem- 
ming and washing them, and lay in a colander to drain; spread 
on layers and sprinkle sugar thick over them and send to table 
immediately, as juice will spoil crust if allowed to stand long. 
For sauce use one cup of cream, i teaspoon of flour, one cup of 
sugar; sift sugar and flour together, set over boiling water and 
cook; remove and put one-half cup of tierry juice in it; pour over 
cake and serve. 



JELLY CAKE. 



^ lb of butter, 3 oz. of corn starch, 

^ lb of sugar, i teaspoon of vanilla, 

5 eggs, 1 cup of n)ilk, 

6 oz. of flour, I teaspoon of soda, 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 

Directions: — Beat butter, sugar and yolks light; add milk 
and some flour; dissolve soda in the milk, then add the whites 
stiffly beaten, andthe remaining flour with cream of tartar, sifted 
four times; last, the vanilla. Bake in jelly tins, quick and soft. 
Spread between layers, with any good jel'y, and ice on top and 
sides with whites of two eggs, one cup of confectioners' sugar, 
and flavor with same as the cake. This is delicious if properly 
made. 



LAYER CAKES. 151 



LEMON CAKE. 



i^ cups of sugar, 

3^ cup of butter, 

lY-y cups of flour, 

^ cup of sweet milk, 

6 eggs, beaten separately, 

2 teaspoons baking powder, or i of soda and 2 cream tartar. 

DiREcrioNs: — Cream butter and sugar together; add milk 
and one-half of the flour and beaten yolks of the eggs; beat this 
ten minutes, then add the whites and remainder of the flour, 
with baking powder sifted into it; bake quick and soft. 

Filling — i cup of hot water, i^ cups of sugar, two table- 
spoons of flour; mix with the sugar one egg beaten and added 
to sugar, water and flour, juice of i large lemon, and a little of 
the rind grated; boil till it thickens, let it cool and then spread 
between the layers. 



GOLDEN CREAM CAKE. 



1 cup of butter. Whites of 5 eggs, 

I cup of sugar, i teaspoon of soda, 

I cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 

lyn cups of flour, I teaspoon of lemon. 

Directions: — Beat butter and sugar together for a few min- 
utes, then add some of the milk and flour; leave one cup of the 
flour to sift cream of tartar in; add the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff, then the remaining cup of flour and flavoring; last, add 
soda dissolved in a little warm water; bake in jelly tins. 

FiLLiNc;: — I cup of sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ cup of good 
cream, i teaspoon of corn starch. Cook in a tin pan set in hot 
water; moisten starch in the milk; cook till thick; flavor with 
orange; beat yolks and sugar, add to the cream and starch; 
spread between layers and on top, with yellow icing. 



152 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 

PECAN CREAM CAKE. 

lYz cups of white sugar, 

i^z cups o^ flour, 

^ cup of butter, 

^ cup of sweet cream, 

I teaspoon of almond flavoring, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

Y-z teaspoon of soda. 

Directions: — Beat yolks well; cream butter and sugar; 
next add flour with cream of tartar sifted twice through it; add 
flavoring and bake in jelly tins. Remove and let cool and spread 
the filling between and on top but not on sides of cake. Hull 
and chop pecan meats fine; cook one cup of cream and one table- 
spoon of flour till thick; add one cup of sugar and the pecan 
meats; when almost cold spread between and on top of the cake. 



RAISIN CAKE. 



2 cups of sugar, 

1 cup of butter, 
Whites of 4 eggs, 
^ cup of milk, 

3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Directions:^ — Mix cream, sugar and butter; add milk and 
two cups of flour; next the beaten whites and one cup of flour, 
with baking powder. Bake in jelly tins, quick and soft; flavor 
with lemon or vanilla if liked, or use raisins as flavoring. 

FiLi,iN(; — One cup of sugar, two whites of eggs, one tea- 
cup of raisins; cook sugar till thick, do not stir, pour over the 
beaten whites of eggs; stir in the chopped raisins; spread 
between layers. 



LAYER CAKES. 153 



MARSHMALLOW CAKE, NO. 1. 

i^ pound of butter, 

I Yo cups of granulated sugar, 

1 cup of water, 

3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 
Whites of 5 eggs. 

Filling for Cake: 

I ounce of powdered gum arabic, 

4 tablespoons of cold water, 
4 ounces powdered sugar, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 
Whites of three eggs. 

DiRFXTiONS. — Cream butter and sugar; next add a little 
water and flour, till two cups of flour is used, and all of the 
water; then add whites of eggs, stiffly beaten, and one-third cup 
of flour, with baking powder. 

DiRKCTioNs FOR FILLING. ^ — Put guiii arabic in a cup, and 
add four tablespoons of cold water; let stand half an hour; set in 
boiling water; stir till dissolved; strain through a cloth, and put in 
tin pail; set in boiling water, add the sugar; stir steadily and 
keep boiling for twenty minutes; then remove from the stove, 
and beat till white and stiff; set over fire again till scalding hot; 
remove and whip quickly; add a teaspoon of vanilla and the 
beaten whites of two eggs; set away in a cool place; when 
thoroughly cold, and cake cold also, spread this between layers 
of the cake, 'but have other icing for top and sides of cake. The 
water in which it is cooked must be kept boiling, and have eggs 
ready when needed. 

To make a chocolate filling for this cake: Take the whites of 
two eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, two tablespoons of 
cold water; beat this to a foam; then whip in lightly, six table- 
spoons of grated chocolate, and one teaspoon of vanilla; reserve 
a part to ice the top; spread the rest on the marshmallow filling; 
then stack the layers into a loaf. This makes a beautiful cake. 



154 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



MARSHMALLOW CAKE, NO. 2. 



lYz cups of sugar, 

Yz cup of butter, 

Yz cup of sweet milk, 

i^ cups of flour, • 

Yn cup of corn starch, 

I heaping teaspoon of baking powder, 

Whites of six eggs. 

Directions. — Beat butter and sugar together; add one-half 
of the flour and then milk and baking powder sifted in the 
remainder of the flour and corn starch; last whip the eggs light 
and add. Filling^ — 2 tablespoons of gelatine, 8 tablespoons of 
hot water, i ft of loaf sugar, i teaspoon of vanilla. Dissolve 
the gelatine in the water, have it hot, stir the sugar in, stir half 
an hour and place in two tins the same size the cake was baked 
in; let mold and put between the layers. 



CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW CAKE, NO. 3. 



2 cups of loaf sugar, 
Yz cup of butter, 

1 cup of cream, 

3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I teaspoon of vanilla. 
Whites of 5 eggs. 

DiRFXTiONS:^ — Cream the butter; add the sugar and beat five 
minutes; then add the cream and flour a little at a time; then 
baking powder sifted in one cup of flour; add the eggs whipped 
light; then the cup of flour with the baking powder; last the eggs 
and vanilla. Filling — ^Whites of 2 eggs, Y^ cup of loaf sugar, 
2 tablespoons cold water, 6 tablespoons of chocolate, i teaspoon 
of vanilla. Put whites of eggs, sugar and water together, beat 
till stiff; then add the grated chocolate; divide this into four 
parts, put on layers on top of marshjiiallow filling. Marsh 
filling made same as Marshmallow, No. 2. 



LAYER CAKES. 155 



BLACKBERRY CAKE. 

^ cup of butter, 

4 eggs, 

2 cups of flour, 

i^ cups of white sugar, 

I cup of blackberry preserves, 

4 tablespoons of sweet cream, 

34^ teaspoon of soda, 

I small teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

I teaspoon of cinnamon, 

I teaspoon of spice. 

Directions: — Beat eggs separately; add yolks to butter and 
sugar; beat to a cream; add cream and two cups of the flour after 
it has been sifted in lightly; add soda and cream of tartar with 
the rest of the flour; last, add spices and beat all well; bake in 
jelly tins. Ice between and on top with the following icing: 
Whites of 2 eggs, i^ cups of loaf sugar, and the blackberry 
preserves. 



A SWISS ROLL. 



4 eggs, 

i^ lb of flour, 

I teaspoon of vanilla, 

I cup of white sugar, 

y^ teaspoon of salt, 
DiRFXTiONS: — Beat the eggs thoroughly, first sifting the 
sugar in; add the flour by degrees, adding the salt to the flour; 
last, add the flavoring; line a flat tin with buttered paper; bake 
in a rather quick oven, and when done remove and spread with 
any good jell; roll up, and when cold slice and serve with any 
good sauce that is preferred. 



150 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



WHITE CREAM CAKE— GOOD. 



8 eggs, whites only, 
2 cups of loaf sugar, 
4 large cups of fiour, 
I Yo cups of cream, 

1 small cup of butter, 

2 teaspoons of orange extract, 

3 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Directions: — Whip the whites of the eggs stiff; cream the 
butter and sugar together; add one cup of the cream, then two 
cups of the flour sifted in; next the other half cup of cream and 
another cup of flour; last, sift the baking powder with the re- 
maining cup of flour, and add this and the eggs and flavoring 
beat up well for five minutes; then butter some square jelly tins, 
and bake quick, not letting them get too much crust or too 
brown, as this spoils the cake. 

Use the following cream filling: — 2 cups of white sugar, i}4 
cups cold water, ]/^ teaspoon cream of tartar, i teaspoon orange 
extract, whites of 3 eggs. Directions — Put sugar on to cook; 
boil until it will be creamy, by putting on the whites of the eggs, 
on a cool plate and beating awhile; add cream of tartar when 
first putting on to cook, but do not stir while boiling. After tak- 
ing off of the stove add four tablespoons of thick sweet cream, 
and one cup of powdered loaf sugar spread between cake and on 
top. Flavor the last thing. 



ICE CREAM CAKE. 



Y^ cup of butter, 3 cups of tlour, 

2 cups of whitesugar, i teaspoon of vanilla, 

I cup of sweet milk, Whites of 7 eggs, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 
Bake in jelly tins, quick and soft. Beat butter and sugar 
to a cream; add some flour and the milk; last add baking powder 
sifted in the rest of the flour; flavor with vanilla. 

Directions for Icing: — One cup of boiling water poured over 
three cups of white sugar; boil slowly till it will string from the 
spoon; pour while hot over the whites of three eggs after they 
have been beaten; stir till it begins to cool; spread on top and 
between cake; flavor with same as cake. ^ 



LAYER CAKES. 157 



CREAM FILLING FOR CAKES. NO. 2. 



Whites of 3 eggs, 

2 cups of sugar, 

I teaspoon of vanilla, 

3 tablespoons of thick cream. 

DiRECTiONs:— Whip the eggs lightly; add the sugar by 
degrees, using the powdered loaf sugar; then add the cream and 
flavoring last; it is better to heat the cream and let it cool before 
using, do not scald it as this will spoil the flavor. This filling 
will be found excellent. The sugar can be boiled and poured 
over the beaten whites; then beat till cold; proceed as above if 
the cakes are intended to be kept for any length of time. 



COFFEE FILLING FOR CAKES. 

I cup of coffee, 
I cup of cream, 
1 cup of sugar, 

1 heaping teaspoon of gelatine, 

2 eggs. 

Directions: — Make the coffee very strong; add the sugar; 
then the cream; have good rich cream, must be sweet; dissolve 
gelatine in a little milk over hot water, add to the other mixture; 
beat the eggs thoroughly and pour -on the hot coffee; stir well 
together; put between the layers of cake when partly cooled. 



158 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CHOCOLATE FILLING. 



lo tablespoons of chocolate, 
3 tablespoons of corn starch, 
I large tablespoon of butter, 
^ cup of sugar, 
y-z cup of milk. 

Directions: — Grate chocolate; add sugar; dissolve corn 
starch in milk; then add the butter; put on stove, cock until like 
a custard; remove and beat up well and it is ready to spread be- 
tween the cakes. 



COOKED ICING. 



3 cups of granulated sugar. 

Whites of 3 eggs, 

I teaspoon of lemon, 

Yz teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

I cup of boiling water. 

Directions— Put sugar and water together; set in boiling 
water, boil till ropy or stringy; have eggs beaten stiff; pour 
the mixture boiling hot over the eggs and beat until almost 
cold; flavor and add cream of tartar dissolved in a teaspoon of 
cold water; use immediately. 



TO MAKE ICING WITHOUT COOKING. 



To the white of one egg allow eight tablespoons of loaf 
sugar; whisk eggs stiff; then add the sugar and one tablespoon of 
cold water. It will be very nice and begins to harden directly 
when it is put on the cake. Use same flavoring that is used in 
cake. 



LAYER CAKES. 159 



A GOOD SPONGE CAKE ROLL. 



I Yo, teacups of sugar, 

1 large cup of flour, 

2 small teaspoons of baking powder, 
4 eggs, 

I cup of grape jelly. 

Directions: — Whisk the eggs all together till very light; add 
the sugar by degrees; then baking powder sifted several times; 
put a pinch of salt and flavoring if desired; beat till light and 
put in a buttered tin and bake in a quick oven. After removing 
from the pan, spread with the jell and roll up and serve while 
hot. 




160 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



Loaf Cakes. 



SPONGE CAKE, NO. 1. 



lO eggs, 

I ft of sugar, 

54 ft of flour, 

)^ teaspoon of salt, 

I le lion. 

DiRKCTiONS: — Beat eggs together for ten minutes; then add 
sugar and beat five minutes; next add some fiour and juice of the 
lemon with the remainder of the flour and grated rind of the 
lemon; bake immediately after mixing, as it spoils sponge cake 
to stand; have a moderately hot oven. If this is made according 
to directions, will be very light and nice. 



SPONGE CAKE, NO. 2. 



6 eggs, 

I Y-z cups of loaf sugar, 
I cup of flour, 
Flavor with lemon. 

DiRPXTioNs: — Beat yolks and sugar; next add flour after 
sifting several times, a little at a time; now add the whites of 
the eggs beaten very stiff; last lemon; beat very quick and bake 
in a moderate oven. 



LOAF CAKES. 161 



MARBLED SPONGE CAKE NO. 3. 

Whites of 9 eggs, 

i^ cup of loaf sugar, 

2 small spoons of cream of tartar, 

I large cup of flour, 

I teaspoon of lemon. 
Directions: — Beat eggs very stiff; sift sugar and flour to- 
gether several times; add the cream of tartar; then sift this into 
the whites of the eggs; flavor and divide the dough and color 
with any good fruit coloring any color desired, and drop one 
spot of the white to one of the colored till all is in; bake in a 
moderate oven; remove from the pan; when cold turn bottom of 
pan up while cooling and when cold or nearly so remove and ice 
over with icing the same color as the cake is. 



SPONGE CAKE, NO. 4. 



4 eggs, 

^ pound of white sugar, 

I lemon, 

j^ pound of flour. 
Directions: — Separate the eggs; beat the yolks and half of 
the lemon juice and sugar together until very light; then add 
half of the beaten whites alternate with the flour until all is used; 
put to bake; do not stir after all is mixed; bake in a quick oven 
and put paper over to avoid burning. 



162 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 



2 cups of flour, 

lyo cups of white sugar, 

3 eggs, 

y^ cup of sweet cream, 

I teaspoon cream of tartar, 

^ teaspoon of soda, 

I teaspoon of lemon extract. 

Directions. — Beat eggs thoroughly; then add cream, sugar, 
and one cup of flour; beat all we'l together; next add cream of 
tartar, sifted in one-half cup of flour; add this to the mixture; 
dissolve soda in a tablespoon of warm water and stir in; last add 
flavoring; bake in pan not very deep; bake quick, just so as not 
to burn; put in a pan with a thick paper on bottom of pan. 



MOTHER'S SPONGE CAKE. 



2 cups of loaf sugar, 

2 cups of flour, 

9 eggs, 

I heaping teaspoon baking powder, 

I teaspoon of rose flavoring. 

Directions.- — First sift the sugar, that it may be light; sift 
flour three times; sift flour, sugar and baking powder together 
twice; have the eggs beat thoroughly; beat them separately, as 
they will be lighter; add them, a little at a time, till all is in; 
flavor; have pans slightly buttered; bake in an oblong pan for 
forty-five minutes, in a slow oven. 



LOAF CAKES. 16B 



SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 

4 cups of flour, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

yl cup of molasses, 

^ cup of sugar, 

Yi cup of sour milk, 

I teaspoon of soda, 

^ teaspoon of cinnamon. 

UiREC'J'ioNS. — Mix sugar, molasses and butter together; add 
the cinnamon; beat well; then the milk, with soda dissolved in 
it; add flour, by sifting in by degrees; bake in a shallow bread 
tin. Very nice. 



MOLASSES SPONGE CAKE. 



I pint of molasses, 
3 cups of flour, 

1 cup of sweet milk, 
% cup of butter, 

2 teaspoons of soda, 
6 eggs. 

Directions. — Put molasses and butter together and beat 
well; next add two cups of the flour; then the milk; then the 
soda* dissolved in one tablespoon of vinegar; now the eggs 
beaten together, and the remainder of the flour; bake in a tin, 
buttered, in a slow oven. 



164 THE CAPITAL COUK BOOK'. 



YELLOW POUND CAKE, NO 1— EXCELLENT. 



1 cup of butter, 

2 cups of white sugar, 
3)^ cups of flour, 

Yn cup of sweet milk 

^ cup of brandy, 

Yolks of 6 eggs and 3 whole ones, 

i^ teaspoons of soda, 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar, 

]^ pound of citron, 

I cup of raisins, 

I cup of currants. 
Directions: — Beat butter, sugar and yolks of the eggs for 
15 minutes; then add milk and two cups of flour; then the beat- 
en eggs and the other cup and a half of flour, with cream of tar- 
tar sifted in it; then add the fruit dredged in flour, and citron 
sliced thin; last add soda dissolved in a little warm water; beat 
well; bake in a moderate oven. 



POUND CAKE, NO. 2. 



I pound pulverized sugar, 

I pound of flour, 

I pound of butter, 

9 eggs, 

I wine glass of good brandy. 

Directions: — Beat the butter to a cream; beat the eggs 
separately, then add the yolks and sugar to the butter and beat 
15 minutes; next sift in the flour; add brandy a little at a time; 
after brandy is all added, beat the whites of the eggs in lightly 
and beat the mixture all one half an hour. Beat with upward 
strokes as the mixture depends largely on the lightness of it. 
Bake in a slow oven. 



LOAF CAA'ES. 165 



GOLDEN FRUIT CAKE, NO. 1. 



i^ pounds of butter, 
Yolks of 15 eggs, 
i^ pounds of white sugar, 
3 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I cup of molasses, 

1 pound of figs, 

2 pounds sweet almonds, 
^ pound of citron, 

^ pound of candied cherries. 
Directions. — Cream the butter and add to the sugar and 
yolks of the eggs; beat twenty minutes; then add molasses and 
some of the flour; now add the remainder of the flour, with the 
baking powder sifted in; blanch the almonds by putting them in 
hot water and removing the skins; after the outside hull has 
been taken off, chop fine and add to the fruit, which also must 
be chopped; slice the citron; dredge in flour and add to cake; 
bake two hours in a moderate oven. 



FRUIT CAKE, NO. 1. 



I pound of brown sugar, 

I pound of butter, 

10 eggs, 

I pound of flour, 

I pound each of raisins and figs, 

1 pound of currants, 

y^ pound of candied citron, 

1 nutmeg, 

2 tablepoons each of spice and cinnamon, 

1 tablespoon of cloves, 

2 teaspoons of baking pov/der. 

Directions. — Beat the eggs separately; beat both butter 
and sugar to a cream; tiien add the beaten yolks; add a little of 
the flour at a time; now the whites, after they liave been suffi- 
ciently beaten; seed raisins; chop all fruit fine in a chopping 
bowl; slice citron very thin and add last; dredge all thoroughly 
in flour; sift baking powder in some of the flour and add the last 
thing, after the spices; bake very slowly. 



166 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



FRUIT CAKE, NO. \^. EXCELLENT. 



I pound white sugar, 
I cup of molasses, 
I cup of butter, 

1 teaspoon of soda, 
i^ pounds of flour, 
12 eggs, 

2 pounds of raisins, 

2 pounds of currants, 

y^ pound of candied lemon peel, 

I wine glass of good brandy, 

i^ teaspoons of spice, 

I teaspoon of cloves, 

I whole nutmeg. 

DiRF.CTiONs: — Cream butter; add sugar and beat thoroughly; 
then add yolks of the eggs; then a little flour; part of the whites 
of the eggs well beaten; add flour and whites till all is used; 
chop fruit fine and dredge in flour and add also spices; add 
brandy last; beat thoroughly. This cake requires a very large 
pan and a slow oven; try with a straw to ascertain when done; 
it requires about three hours to bake. Dissolve soda in a little 
warm water and add last; mix with the hands, as the dough is 
most too stiff to mix with a spoon or paddle. 



LOAJ^' CAA'KS. ]()7 



FRUIT CAKE, NO 4. 



I pound of butter, 

9 ^ggs, 

y^ teaspoon of soda, 

134^ pounds of tiour, 

I pound of loaf sugar, 

y2 pound of currants, 

yi pound of raisins, 

}( pounds each of citron and lemon peel, 

yl pound of sweet almonds, (no spices.) 
Directions. — Cream butter and sugar together; sift flour; 
beat eggs separately; add yolks first, then some flour, then 
whites and rest of flour; next fruit, after it has been chopped 
and dredged in flour; slice citron and lemon peel, dredge them 
in flour; last add almonds, after they have been blanched; bake 
in a slow oven. This will require about two hours to bake. 
Dissolve soda in a little warm water and add; mix well. 



FRUIT CAKE, NO. 5. 



I cup of sugar, 

1 cup of molasses, 

I cup of butter, 

I cup of sweet milk, 

9 whole eggs, 

)4 pound each of raisins, figs and currants, 

1 teaspoon of spice and cinnamon, 

2 teaspoons of cloves, 
I teaspoon of soda. 

Directions. — Beat butter, sugar and molasses together; 
add eggs, beaten separately; next, alternately, the flour and 
milk; after this is added, dredge the fruit in flour and add, a 
handful at a time; th'en lastly the spices, sifted with a little of 
the flour, and soda dissolved in warm v/ater; make batter stiff; 
bake as previous cakes, in a slow oven. It will require about 
two and one-half hours to bake. 



168 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



FRUIT CAKE, NO. 6. 

I cup of brown sugar, 

1^/2 cups of molasses, 

I cup of butter, 

4 large cups of Hour, 

6 whole eggs, 

I cup of sweet milk, 

I It) of raisins, currants and figs together, equal parts, 

I heaping teaspoon of soda, 

I teaspoon each of all kinds of spices. 
Directions: — Cream butter and sugar; add the molasses 
and beaten yolks, then half the flour; then beat 20 minutes or 
more; then add beaten whites and the rest of the flour, fruit, and 
spices; beat ten minutes; add soda last, dissolved in water; bake 
in a very slow oven for about one and one-half hours. 



PLUM CAKE. 



2 pounds of white sugar, 

1 pound of butter. 

Yolks of 10 eggs and whites of 15, 

2 pounds of sifted flour, 
I cup of sweet cream, 

1 teaspoon of soda dissolved in milk, 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar sifted in flour, 
Yn pound of citron, 

2 pounds of blanched almonds, 

2 pounds of raisins and currants together, 

2 tablespoons of cinnamon, 

I teaspoon of cloves, 

I tablespoon of spice, 

I nutmeg. 
DiKKCTioNs: — Prepare same as fruit cake; bake in a very 
large pan; have two thickness of paper in bottom and bake in a 
moderate oven for four hours; be siire that it is well done. This 
cake will keep for six months. 



LOAF CAKES. 100 



WHITE CAKE, NO. 1. 

Whites of 12 eggs, 
2 cups of butter, 
2)4 cups of sugar, 
I cup of water, 

1 teaspoon of rose flavoring, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
4 cups of flour. 

Directions: — Beat sugar and butter for ten minutes; then 
add a Httle of the water and flour, and water again to flour till all 
but a cup of flour is left to sift the baking powder in; now add 
the whites of the eggs beaten stiff; and flavoring and cup of 
flour; beat five minutes longer and put in a greased tin and bake 
in a moderate oven. In all, beat this one-half an hour. 



WHITE CAKE, NO. i. 



Whites of 1 6 eggs, 

2 small cups of butter, 

3 cups of sugar, 

2 cups of milk, 
6 cups of flour, 

3 teaspoons of baking powder, 
2 teaspoons of flavoring. 

Directions: — Beat butter to a cream; add sugar, beat 15 
minutes; then add a little milk and flour alternately till all but 
one cup is used; then add v/hites of the eggs and the cup of flour 
with the baking powder sifted in, and flavoring; do not beat but 
five minutes after last flour and baking powder is added; bake 
in a moderate oven; try with a straw and if no dough adheres to 
straw, the cake will do to remove from the oven. 



170 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK' 



WHITE CURRANT CAKE 

I /^ pounds of flour, 
I pound of white sugar, 
^ pound of butter, 
Whites of 1 1 eggs, 
I gill of sweet milk, 

1 teaspoon of soda. 

2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 
I pound of currants. 

Directions. — Put butter and sugar together and beat five 
minutes; add milk and flour, alternately; next add beaten 
whites of the eggs, and soda dissolved in about two tablespoons 
of water; now add cream of tartar, sifted in a little flour; last 
add currants, dredged in flour, after being well cleaned; bake in 
a slow oven for two and one-half h6urs. 



ANGEL CAKE, NO 1 



I tumbler of flour, 

1 3^ tumblers of sugar. 

Whites of 15 eggs, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

I large teaspoon of vanilla. 

DiKFXTioNs. — Sift sugar three times; then add cream of 
tartar; put sugar and flour together, and sift three times; then 
put in sieve again and sift a little at a time into the beaten 
whites of the eggs. They must be beaten very stiff and none 
allowed to settle at the bottom, as that will hinder the lightness 
of the cake; after all is added beat lightly for ■^?©» minutes; put 
in an unbuttered pan; place in the oven; do not open the door 
for twenty minutes; have the oven not very liot and bake one 
houn put lemon or vanilla last thing. This is excellent. 



LOAF CAKES. 171 



GOLD AND SILVER CAKE. 



GOLD PART. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, 

i^ cups of sugar, 

Yo, cup of butter, 

3 cups of flour, 

I cup of sweet milk, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

^ teaspoon of soda, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 
DiRKcriONS: — Creanj butter, sugar, and yolks of the eggs 
together; add half of the flour; next the milk; next the cream of 
tartar in remainder of flour; next the soda dissolved in a little 
warm water; last the vanilla; bake in jelly tins in a rather quick 
oven. 

SILVER PART. 

Whites of 6 eggs, 

1)4 cups of white sugar, 

I cup of butter, 

3 cups of flour, 

1 cup of sweet milk, 

2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 
I teaspoon of soda, 

I teaspoon of lemon extract. 
Directions: — Cream butter and sugar together; add milk 
and flour alternately; reserve a little of flour to mix with cream 
of tartar; dissolve soda in a little warm water; then add the re- 
mainder of the flour and cream of tartar; next whip the whites 
to a stiff froth and then add the flavoring; bake in a rather quick 
oven. Fill between with any filling desired. 



ANGEL CAKE, NO. 2. 



Whites of 1 1 eggs, 

lYz tumblers of white sugar, 

I tumbler of flour, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 
DiREcriONS: — Mix same as number one, but do not bake 
but forty minutes. Angel cake should never be removed until 
they are entirely cold; turn pan upside down on a plate to cool. 



172 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CITRON CAKE. 

I quart of flour, 

1 cup of butter, 

2 cups of white sugar, 
12 eggs, 

I cup of cream, 
Yo pound of citron, 

1 teaspoon extract of sweet almond, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Directions. — Cream butter and sugar, after it has been sifted; 
then add yolks of the eggs; beat well; then add the cream and 
some of the flour sifted in; add next, the whites, beaten very 
stiff, next the citron, sliced thin and dredged in flour; last flavor- 
ing; bake in a moderate oven. 



LOAF CAKE. 



1 cup of butter, 

2 cup of white sugar, 
1 cup of milk, 

3 cups of flour. 
Whites of II eggs, 

I teaspoon of baking powder, 
I teaspoon of vanilla, 

Directions. — Beat butter to a cream; sift sugar three times 
and add, a little at a time; beat the butter till creamy; add milk, 
and flour, that has been sifted four times, with baking powder 
in it; beat well and add the whites, after they have been beaten 
stiff, a little at a time, and the last cup of flour; put the cake in 
tin and bake three-fourths of an hour, in a moderate oven. 
When made properly, this is almost like angel food, and is very 
nice., 



LOAF CAKES. 173 



DATE CAKE. 



I cup brown sugar, 
• I cup of molasses, 
I small cup of butter, 
I cup of sweet cider, 
4 eggs, 

I teaspoon of soda, 
4 cups of flour, 
I cup of dates. 

Directions: — Mix butter, sugar and yolks of the eggs to- 
gether; next add the cider and half of the flour; now beat the 
whites of the eggs well; add to mixture; put soda in a little warm 
water, stir in and add the rest of the flour and dates stoned and 
dredged in flour; put in an oblong pan and bake till well done in 
a moderate oven. This makes a cake that is almost equal to 
fruit cake and will keep almost as well. 



FEATHER CAKE. 



Whites of three eggs, 

1 cup of white sugar, 
y^ cup of butter, 

Yi cup of sweet milk, 
3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I teaspoon of sweet almonds. 

Directions: — Cream butter and sugar together; add the 
milk and two cups of flour; beat the whites of the eggs very stiff 
and add them; now sift baking powder with remaining cup of 
flour and sift it three times in flour; last the flavoring; bake in a 
moderate oven. This, if properly made, is very nice. 



174 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TEA CAKE. 

2 cups of sugar, 
y2 cup of butter, 

3 eggs, 

3^ cup of sweet cream, 

3 cups of flour, 

^ teaspoon of soda, 

I teaspoon cream of tartar, 

yi^ teaspoon of nutmeg. 

DiRFXTioNS." — -Sift sugar twice; add this to butter, and whip 
till light; beat eggs separately; add the yolks to the butter and 
sugar; now sift the flour, with the cream of tartar in it; add 
the cream first; then sift the flour in lightly, and beaten whites 
of the eggs; dissolve soda in a little warm water; add lastly, the 
nutmeg, grated; bake in a moderate oven. 



PUFF CAKE. 



1 cup of white sugar, 
]/{ cup of butter, 

4 tablespoons of cream, 

2 eggs, 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
Y-z teaspoon of soda, 

2 cups of flour, 

I teaspoon of lemon. 

Directions. — Beat butter, sugar, eggs and cream till light 
and foamy; then add the flour, a little at a time, with the 
cream of tartar sifted twice into it; last add the soda, dissolved 
in a little warm water, and after this, flavor and beat a few 
minutes lunger. You will find this cake very light and suitable 
to cat with fruit or cream. Bake in a shallow pan. 



LOAF CAKES. 175 



AMERICAN FLAG CAKE. 



RED PART. 

2^ cups of flour, 

I cup of red sugar, 

y^ cup of butter, 

^ cup of sweet milk, 

Whites of 5 eggs, 

I heaping teaspoon of baking powder. 

Flavor with strawberry. 

Directions- — Cream butter; add sugar after it has been roll- 
ed and sifted; beat eggs stiff; add flour and eggs alternately; have 
the baking powder well sifted into the flour; add the milk and 
lastly the flavoring. 

WHITE PART. 

I cup of loaf sugar, 

Yz cup of butter, 

^ cup of sweet milk, 

Whites of 5 eggs, 

2^ cups of flour, 

I heaping teaspoon of baking powder, 

Flavor with lemon. 

Directions: — Beat sugar and butter well together; add milk 
and two cups of flour; beat eggs and add them; next one half 
cup of flour with baking powder sifted in; add the flavoring; beat 
well. 

BLUE PART. 

I cup of blue sugar, 

^ cup of sweet milk, 

Y-z cup of butter. 

Whites of 5 eggs, 

2^ cups of flour, 

I teaspoon of baking powder, 

Vanilla flavorinir. 



17(5 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



Directions: — Sift sugar well; add butter and beat together; 
then add milk and flour alternately till two cups of flour is used; 
sift the baking powder in one-half cup of flour; add the beat- 
en whites and flavoring; beat all well together. 

After all is ready, take a good sized pan and first put in the 
red dough, then the white and blue on top; have a moderate 
oven and try with a straw to see when it is sufficiently done; re- 
move from pan and let cool and ice with three colors in circles. 
This is a handsome cake and suitable for the Fourth of July. 



ECONOMICAL CAKE. 



4 eggs, 

i^ cups of sugar, 

2 oz. of butter, 

I cup of cold water, 

3 cups of flour, 

I large teaspoon of baking powder. 

Directions: — Beat yolks of eggs with sugar and butter till 
very light; add water and one half of the flour; beat smooth; add 
the whites beaten smoothly and the other half of the flour with 
the baking powder; flavor with nutmeg; mix well and bake in a 
moderate oven. 



LOAF CAKES. 177 



ENGLISH CAKE. 

I pound of butter, 
I pound of white sugar, 

1 pint of sweet milk, 

2 pounds of flour, 

I teacup of good yeast sponge, 

y, pound of raisins, 

^2 pound of currants, 

I teaspoon of nutmeg, 

y[ pound of candied citron, 
DiRKCTioNs: — Cream butter and sugar together and set 
aside till needed; heat the milk slightly, then stir in the flour and 
add a pinch of salt and the cup of sponge; set to rise; when 
light, then add the sugar and butter and a little more flour, about 
a cupful if needed, as sometimes it will seem sticky and dough 
thin; beat well; dredge fruit in flour; after citron has been sliced 
and currants washed and dried and raisins stemmed and chopped, 
add and mix well; add nutmeg; put in pan and let rise and bake 
in a moderate oven. 



SOFT GINGER BREAD, NO. 2. 



Yz cup of fresh butter, 

I cup of molasses, 

I teaspoon of ginger, 

I teaspoon of soda, 

)A cup of hot water, 

y^ teaspoon of salt. 
Directions: — Put lard and molasses together; add water 
with soda dissolved in it; now stir flour in; add the ginger last; 
put flour in till moderately stiff, but not too much so, as that 
would spoil the lightness of the cakes; bake in a hot oven, not 
hot enough to burn. This is very nice when properly made. 



178 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



SOFT GINGER BREAD, NO. 1. 



1 cup of molasses, 

Y-z cup of brown sugar, 

^ cup of butter, 

I cup of boiling water, 

3 eggs, 

1)4 pints of flour, 

I teaspoon of ginger, 

Yz cup of sour cream, 

I teaspoon of soda. 

Directions. — Beat butter and sugar together; add molasses 
and the beaten eggs; beat them together, and add hot v/ater, 
with soda dissolved in it; have the teaspoon heaping, both of 
soda and ginger; add milk and ginger; now stir in the fiour and 
beat well for a few minutes and put in a greased tin; bake in a 
moderate oven. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE, NO. 1. 

i^ cup of sugar, 

Y2 cups of butter, 

4 eggs,. 

Y^ cup of milk, 

2 cups of flour, 

I teaspoon of baking powder, 

Yz cake of chocolate, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 

DiKF.CTioNs. — Beat the yolks of the eggs well, and add butter 
and sugar; beat till it is very light; then add the milk, and one 
cup of the flour; grate the chocolate in; now add the beaten 
whites and the other cup of flour, with the baking powder; last 
flavoring; bake in a medium size pan, in a moderate oven. 



LOAF CAKES. 170 



CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE, NO 2. 

3^ cup of butter, 

1 cup of milk, 

i}^ cups of white sugar, 
3 cups of flour, 
^ cup of coffee, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
5 eggs, 

2 teaspoons of vanilla, 

2 tablespoons of chocolate. 

Directions: — Beat butter, sugar, and yolks of the eggs to 
a cream; next add one cup of the flour and after this the milk; 
now grate the chocolate in the hot coffee; this must be hot; next 
add another cup of flour and the beaten whites of the eggs; now 
put baking powder in the third cup of flour; sift three times and 
add to the mixture; last the vanilla; bake in a moderate oven. 



PICNIC CAKE. 



Yz cup of butter, 

2 small cups of sugar, 

1 cup of cream, 
4 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
6 eggs, 

I teacup of raisins, 
I teaspoon of lemon. 

Directions: — Beat butter, sugar and yolks of the eggs to- 
gether; add the cream and three cups of flour; next the whites 
of the eggs beaten well; now add the fourth cup of flour, with 
the baking powder; add the lemon; last the raisins dredged in 
flour; bake in a moderate oven. 



180 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



PORK CAKE. NO 1 



1 pound of currants, 
I pound of raisins, 
4 cups of flour, 
I pound of pork fat, 
I cup of molasses, 
I cup of brown sugar, 

1 cup of boiling water, 

2 teaspoons of soda, 
Yo, teaspoon of cloves, 

I teaspoon of cinnamon, 
I teaspoon of spices, 
I teaspoon of salt. 

Directions. — Chop the pork; add molasses and boiling 
water, with the soda dissolved in it; now sift the flour and stir 
in; have currants cleaned and dry, and raisins chopped fine; 
dredge both in flour; add spices and salt; beat well and put in 
an oblong pan and bake in a slow oven. It will take about two 
hours to bake. 



PORK CAKE, NO. 2. 



I y^ pounds of pork fat, 
I pint of hot coffee, 
1^2 cups of molasses, 
I cup of brown sugar, 
I teaspoon each of all kinds of spices, 
i^ pounds of currants, 
I pound of raisins, 
Yz pound of figs, 
^ pound of citron, 
' 2 teaspoons of soda. 

DiKKCTioNs. — Chop pork fine in bowl; pour coffee over this; 
next add molasses, with soda dissolved in them; now add sugar 
and flour enough to make a stiff batter; dredge the fruit, after 
carefully preparing it; slice citron; dredge also with the fruit; 
add spices last. Do not put pepper or ginger in this cake. 
Bake about two or two and one-half hours in a moderate oven. 



LOAF CAKES. 



181 



WATERMELON CAKE. 



WHITE PART. 

1 cup of white sugar, 
y^ cup of butter, 

Yz cup of milk, 
Whites of 6 eggs, 
3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 

I teaspoon of strawberry flavoring, 

RED PART. 

1 cup of red sugar, 
Y cup of butter, 
Yz cup of milk, 
Whites of 4 eggs, 
2j^ cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I cup of raisins. 

Directions for white part: — Cream butter and sugar; add 
the milk and 2 cups of flour, whites of the eggs beaten well; 
add third cup of ffour, with the baking powder sifted in; last add 
flavoring. 

Directions for red part: — Beat butter and sifted sugar to- 
gether; add milk; next half the flour and baking powder sifted in 
some of the flour; put white par't around the edge of the pan; 
next put some of the red part without the raisins; then some 
with the raisins to represent the seeds of the melon; bake in a 
moderate oven. This is a very beautiful cake. 



182 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



COFFEE CAKE. 



1 cup of butter, 

2 cups of brown sugar, 

1 cup of coffee, 
4 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
Yolks of 7 eggs, 

Yi teaspoon of cloves, 

I teaspoon of cinnamon, 

I teaspoon of nutmeg, 

I teaspoon of spice, 

1 cup of raisins, 

^ cup of citron, 

Yt, cup of hickory nut meats. 

Directions: — Cream butter and sugar together; whip yolks 
of eggs and add; sift the flour and add a little; then some of the 
cold coffee; the coffee must be strong; then add a little flour till 
half is used; the other half must have baking powder sifted into 
it; dredge the fruit and add nuts and spices; beat twenty minutes; 
bake in moderate oven. 



LOAF CAKES. 183 



GINGER BREAD. 



5 cups of flour, 

xY-z cups of brown sugar, 

\y2 cups of molasses, 

I cup sour cream, 

4 eggs, 

Yz cup of butter, 

1 tablespoon of ginger, 

2 teaspoons of soda. 

Directions: — Beat eggs together till very light; add butter 
and sugar and molasses; beat well; sift in some of the flour; now 
add the cream with the soda well dissolved in it; add the remain- 
der of the flour and ginger; bake in shallow tins in a rather 
moderate oven. This is a good recipe for making ginger bread. 



CUP CAKE. 



1 cup of butter, 

2 cups of sugar, 
4 eggs, 

1 cup of milk, 

3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I lemon. 

Directions: — Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add the 
beaten yolks and milk and flour with the powder sifted in, then 
the beaten whites, and juice and the grated rind of the 
lemon; beat thoroughly and put in a tin and it will take about 
one hour to bake in a moderate oven. 



184 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



MARBLE CAKE. 



LIGHT PART. • 

Whites of 7 eggs, 
2 cups of loaf sugar, 
I large cup of butter, 

1 cup of sweet milk, 
4 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I teaspoon of lemon or vanilla. 

DARK PART. 

Yolks of 7 eggs, 
I cup of brown sugar, 
I cup of molasses, 
I cup of butter, 
4 cups of flour, 

1 cup of sweet milk, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I teaspoon of cinnamon, 

Yi teaspoon of cloves, 

I teaspoon of spice, 

Yz teaspoon of soda, 

I teaspoon of nutmeg. 
Directions for light part: — Cream butter and sugar; next 
add two cups of flour, and the remainder of the flour and baking 
powder, and whites of the eggs beaten very stiff; last add the 
flavoring. 

Directions for dark part: — Beat butter and sugar to a cream; 
add yolks and beat thoroughly; add the molasses with the soda 
dissolved in it; then the milk and two cups of flour, and the re- 
mainder with the baking powder sifted in; last the spices. Bake 
in a moderate oven till well done. 



LOAF CAKES. 185 



BLACK CAKE. 

I pound of currants, 

I pound of raisins, 

i^ pound of citron, 

I pound of almonds, 

i6 eggs, 

I pound of brown sugar, 

I pound of flour, 

I pound of butter, 

I tablespoon of spice, 

I tablespoon of cinnamon, 

I teaspoon of cloves, 

I wine glass of brandy, 

1 heaping teaspoon of soda, 

2 heaping teaspoons of cream of tartar, 

Directions: — Cream the butter and sugar together; then 
add the yolks and flour, a little at a time, alternately, with the 
beaten whites of the eggs; next add brandy, and soda dissolved 
in one tablespoon of hot water; now the rest of the flour sifted 
in; next spices; slice the citron, stone the raisins, if no seedless 
raisins can be secured; clean currants and dry, and dredge in 
flour; blanch the almonds by putting in hot water a few minutes 
and removing skins, having hull off before putting in hot water; 
dry on a cloth and pound or chop them and add to fruit; dredge 
also in flour. Bake in a slow oven till well done. 



186 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



BERRY CAKE. 



2 cups of flour, 

I cup of milk, 

I cup of sugar, 

Whites of 4 eggs, yolks of 2, 

^ cup of butter, 

1 pint of berries, 

2 small teaspoons of baking powder. 

Directions: — Beat the whites of the four eggs and yolks of 
the two together, and then add sugar, butter and beat thorough- 
ly; add milk and one-half of the flour; sift the baking powder 
with the remainder of the flour; if the berries are damp 
dry them in the sun or in a dry cloth; dredge lightly in flour; 
then add to the cake. This is good for blackberry, or any berry 
that is preferred. Bake in a slow oven. 



COOKIES. 187 



Cookies. 



GINGER COOKIES. 



J^ cup of sugar, 
I cup of molasses, 
I cup of butter, 
I egg, 

I teaspoon of vinegar, 
I tablespoon of ginger, 

I teaspoon of soda dissolved in hot water. 
Directions: — Mix like cooky dough, rather soft, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 



GINGER SNAPS. 



I cup of molasses, 

I cup brown sugar, 

yi cup of lard, 

I teaspoon of ground ginger, 

I teaspoon of soda, 

Yz teaspoon of salt. 
Directions: — Mix all these together; put in a tin pan and 
boil until it thickens a little; now stir in by degrees one cup of 
flour; after it is well heated, add the soda dissolved in a little 
warm water; mix well before taking from the stove; add flour 
enough to make a stiff dough; roll out thin; bake in a quick oven. 



188 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



HARD GINGER BREAD. 

2 cups of molasses, 
I cup of sugar, 
I cup of butter, 

1 heaping teaspoon of ginger, 

2 teaspoons of soda, 
I cup of sour cream. 

Directions: — Cream the butter with the sugar; add mo- 
lasses; then soda dissolved in sour cream; add ginger, and take 
a mixing bowl and put enough flour to make stiff enough to roll 
out and cut in squares, and bake a golden brown in a moderate 
oven. 



HICKORY NUT COOKIES. 



1 cup of sugar, 

2 eggs, 

Yz cup of melted butter, 

6 tablespoons of milk, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

Yi teaspoon of soda, 

X cup of chopped meats. 

Directions: — Beat the eggs and butter together; add milk, 
and sift cream of tartar with one cup of flour; dissolve soda in a 
little hot water; mix all together and add the chopped meats and 
enough flour with the one cup of flour to make a stiff dough; roll 
out thin; cut with a cake cutter and bake in a quick oven. 



CO OAVES. 189 



GRAHAM COOKIES. 



}4 cup of sour cream, (thick) 

I cup of sugar, 

yi teaspoon of soda. 

Directions. — Mix with graham flour to roll out; bake in an 
oven not as hot as for white flour cookies, as it takes longer to 
bake them. 



COCOANUT COOKIES. 



i}4 cups of sugar, 

1 cup of butter. 

2 eggs, 

I teaspoon of soda, 
j4 cup of sour cream, 
I cup of cocoanut. 

Directions. — Roll and sift the sugar; cream the butter and 
add; beat the eggs till light and add to the sugar and butter, 
then dissolve the soda in the sour cream; add the cup of grated 
cocoanut; mix well together with enough flour to roll out nicely, 
but not too stiff; roll out thin and sprinkle with sugar and bake 
a nice brown. 



DOUGHNUTS, NO. 3. 



I cup of sour cream, 
i^ cups of sugar, 
I cup of butter, 

3 fir era 

I teaspoon of lemon, 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

^2 teaspoon of soda. 

Directions. — Mix butter, sugar and eggs together; add 
cream, with soda dissolved in it; add lemon; make stiff enough 
to roll out and cut with doughnut cutter; fry in one-third butter 
and two-thirds lard; after taking out roll in cinnamon then in 
sugar. 



1^'J THE CAPn\AL COOK BOOK. 



CREAM DOUGHNUTS, NO. 2. 



I cup of thick sweet cream, 

1 cup of white sugar, 

2 eggs, 

y2 teaspoon of soda, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

}i' teaspoon of nutmeg. 
Dtrkction.s: — Mix cream and sugar; add the eggs after be- 
ing beaten light; next add cream with soda dissolved in it; sift 
cream of tartar in the flour; add enough to make a stiff dough, 
roll out and cut in strips; roll around a stick and fry in hot 
grease to alight brown. 



DOUGHNUTS, NO. 1. 



I cup of sugar, 

/^ cup of thick sour cream, 

I teaspoon of soda, 

%. teaspoon of nutmeg, 

I egg. 
Directions: — Put sugar and egg together; beat well; next 
add cream with soda dissolved in it; add nutmeg; use enough 
flour to make a stiff dough; roll out and cut with a doughnut 
cutter and fry in fresh lard a golden brown; have lard smoking 
hot, but do not let it scorch. 



CRULLERS. 



% cup of butter, 

2 eggs, 

I cup of sugar, 

I cup of sour milk, 

I teaspoon of soda. 
DiRKCTioNS: — Mix butter, sugar and eggs together; dissolve 
soda in milk and add this to the flour and make a stiff dough; 
roll out one fourth inch in thickness, cut and fry iu hot lard; 
take out and roll in white sugar. 



COOKIES 191 



WAFERS. 



I cup of flour, 

Yi^ cup of sugar 

]4, cup of cream, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

^ teaspoon of mace, 

]/^ teaspoon of orange peel, 

I egg, 

^ teaspoon of soda. 

Directions. — Sift flour; beat sugar and egg together; then 
add the butter; beat five minutes before adding the cream, 
orange and mace; grate the orange peel; sift the flour in; add 
the soda, dissolved in warm water. The cream must be sweet; 
bake in wafer irons. To be eaten with any good jam and cream. 



COOKIES, NO. 3. 



2 cups of sugar, 

1 cup of butter, 

2 eggs, 

4 tablespoons of sour cream, 
I teaspoon of caraway seeds, 
I teaspoon of soda. 

Directions. — Cream the sugar and butter; beat the eggs 
and add to the sugar and butter; dissolve soda in the cream; add 
all this to flour enough to roll stiff; add the caraway seed last; 
work well; roll out, and cut in shapes; bake in a moderate oven. 



192 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. ' 

SUGAR COOKIES, NO 1. 

2 eggs, 

I Clip of sugar, 

I cup of butter, 

I teaspoon of nutmeg, 

I teaspoon of soda, 

Yz cup of sour cream. 

Directions: — Mix stiff ; roll out very thin; sprinkle with 
sugar and bake in a moderately quick oven. 



SUGAR COOKIES, NO. 2. 



Yi cup of butter, 

I cup of sugar, 

I egg, 

Y, teaspoon of soda, 

Yi cup of sweet milk. 
Directions: — Cream butter, sugar and eggs together; add 
soda dissolved in milk; mix stiff with flour and cut out and bake 
in a quick oven. 



BOSTON COOKIES. 



1 cup of butter, 
1^2 cups of sugar, 

2 cups of flour, 

I cup of raisins chopped fine, 

Yz teaspoon of soda dissolved in warm water, 

3 eggs, 

Flavor to suit taste. 

DiRECTioNSi — Mix well; roll thin; cut into shapes and put 
into the pans; have dough rather, stiff, and sprinkle grauulated 
sugar over each, 



cooK/ES. in:! 



JUMBLES, NO. 2. 



^ pound of butter, 

3 eggs, 

yn pound of sugar, 

y^ pound of flour, 

2 teaspoons of rose water. 
Directions: — Beat the flutter and sugar to a cream; add 
eggs well beaten: then rose water; then the flour; dust the mold- 
ing board with flour; roll out the mixture about one-eighth of an 
inch thick; cut with a doughnut cutter, thus forming rings; bake 
in a moderate oven until a light brown; dust sugar over after re- 
movinti from oven. 



JUMBLES, NO. 6. 



^2 pound of butter, 

9 oz. of flour, 

Yo pound of powdered sugar, 

1 teaspoon of vanilla, 

2 wine glasses of brandy, 
4 eggs. 

Directions: — ^Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar 
gradually, beating until very light; now beat the eggs all to- 
gether; add to the butter and sugar; add brandy and vanilla, and 
last the flour sifted in; beat all well togeher; drop by spoonfuls 
on buttered paper; bake in a moderate oven until the edges are 
a delicate brown. 



194 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



JUMBLES, NO. 1 



1 pint of sweet cream, 
3 eggs, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
2 cups of sugar, 

Yz teaspoon of salt, 

I quart of tiour, 

I teaspoon of cinnamon. 
DiKPXTiONS. — Sift the two teaspoons of baking powder, 
sugar and salt into the liour; add the eggs, cinnamon and cream; 
make into a stiff dough; roll rather thin; fry in hot lard till a 
nice brown. 



SCOTCH CAKES. 



Y-z pound of Hour, 

Yz pound of butter, 

Y2 pound of sugar, 

2 eggs, 

I teaspoon cinnamon. 
DiKECTioN.s. — Mix flour, sugar, butter and eggs well to- 
gether; add cinnamon, and mix; roll out into a thin sheet; cut 
with a cutter; bake in a moderate oven till well done. 



GINGER COOKIES. 



I cup of molasses, 

I cup of brown sugar, 

I cup of butter, 

I cup of warm water, 

I teaspoon of ginger, 

\Y^ teaspoon of soda. 
Directions. — Mix all the ingredients together; then add 
enough flour to make a rather stiff dough; roll out and cut with 
a cake cutter; bake in a slow oven, as any cake that has molasses 
is easily burned. Be sure and dissolve the soda in the water 
and add to the rest of the mixture. 



COOKfES. 195 



ORANGE CAKES, 



Yn pint sweet milk, 

I pound of sugar, 

5^ teaspoon of lemon juice, 

^ pound of butter, 

i^ teaspoon of soda, 

3 eggs, 

I orange. 
DiRFXTiONS: — ^.Beat butter and sugar together; add milk and 
soda dissolved in the milk; eggs beaten stiff; now sift the flour 
well and have enough to make a stiff dough; put all the mixture 
in, and the juice and grated rind of the orange; mix rather stiff; 
roll out and cut in small cakes and bake in a pan on a buttered 
paper, a nice brown; sift sugar over the dough before cutting 
out. 



LEMON SNAPS. 



I cup of sugar, 

1 cup of butter, 

2 eggs, 

I teaspoon of lemon, 

I teaspoon of soda, 

y^ cup of hot water. 
Directions: — Cream the butter and sugar; add the eggs 
after they have been whipped light; now soda dissolved in the 
hot water; last the lemon extract; make a stiff dough, but not as 
stiff as for ginger. cookies, as any cake that has molasses requires 
more Hour; roll out thin and bake in a quick oven. 



196 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



Fancy Dishes.- 



ALMOND MERINGUE DROPS. 



7 eggs, 

^ pound of white sugar, 

Yz pound of blanched almonds, 

I teaspoon of rose water. 

DiRFXTiONS; — Blanch the almonds; try dropping them in 
hot water a few moments, then the inner hull will come off 
readily; put in a chopping bowl, chop fine; then pound to a 
morter; add the whites only of the eggs beaten stiff; add flavor 
and sugar; drop on buttered paper; bake in a moderate oven un- 
til a delicate brown. 



MILLIE'S MOLASSES DROPS. 



I cup of molasses, 
y^ cup of sugar, 
I cup of sour milk, 
Yz cup of butter, 
I teaspoon of soda. 

DiKi'XTioNs. — Mix molasses, sugar and butter together; 
then flour by degrees till almost stiff enough; now dissolve soda 
in a little warm water and stir in; add flour till it will drop from 
the spoon, on buttered paper, and not run together; bake in a 
rather quick oven. 



FANCY DISHES. 197 



COCOANUT DROPS. 



Yz pound of cocoanut, 
Yz pound of white sugar, 
Whites of six eggs. 

Directions. — Grate cocoanut; sift sugar; beat the eggs stiff, 
and mix all together; bake in a pan on buttered paper, one 
spoonful in a place, about one inch apart; sprinkle with sugar 
after removing from the oven. 



ALMOND MACAROONS. 



5 eggs, (whites) 

2 cups of sugar, 

I pound of sweet almonds, 
Directions: — Blanch and pound almonds fine; beat whites 
of the eggs light and add sugar; mix well; drop on buttered pa- 
per; bake quickly; flavor w'ith any kind of flavoring. 



WH[TE SPONGE FINGERS. 



Y-z cup of flour, 

I cup of sugar, 

Yz teaspoon of baking powder, 

Whites of 5 eggs. 
Directions: — Sift flour four times with baking powder in it; 
beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth; beat sugar into the whites; 
add next the flour and bake ten to twelve minutes in a moderate 
oven; when cool frost lightly with cream frosting; sprinkle with 
dessicated cocoanut. 



198 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



COCOANUT MACAROONS. 



Whites of 6 eggs, 

Y-z pound of grated cocoanut, 

1 cup of sugar. 

Directions. — Beat whites of eggs till light; then add sugar 
and cocoanut; drop on buttered paper by spoonfuls; bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 



CHOCOLATE CAKES. 



Whites of 6 eggs, 

y^ pound of grated chocolate, 

i^ cups of sugar, 

2 cups of sifted flour. 

Directions. — Beat the whites stiff; stir in the sugar, 
chocolate and flour; drop on buttered paper and bake in a quick 
oven. 



LADY FINGERS. 



^ pound of loaf sugar, 

1 pound of flour, 

2 small teaspoons of baking powder. 

DiRKC'iioNs.— Beat the eggs separately; whisk the yolks 
light; add to the sugar; beat at least five minutes; then add the 
whites and flour lightly after adding the baking powder; do not 
stir after adding the flour, only enough to mix well; bake in a 
pan about an inch deep, and when perfectly cold, cut with a 
sharp knife, about four or five inches long by one inch wide. 
Very nice to line molds. For any kind of cream. 



FANCY DISHES. 109 



CALLA LILLIES. 



Whites of 6 eggs, 

I cup of sugar, 

I cup of flour. 
DiRKCTiONs: — Sift sugar and flour four times; add the 
whites of the eggs beaten well; sift flour and sugar in lightly; 
flavor with strawberry; bake in a large pan so the cake will be 
about an inch thick; when done cut in squares; roll up in shape 
of a calla lily; put in small glasses and fill with whipped cream 
flavored with strawberry; take a piece of yellow sponge cake and 
cut in strips and place in the centre to represent a spadix. 



LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 



y^ pound of butter, 

^ pound of sugar, 
' 5 eggs, 

2 lemons. 
Directions: — Beat butter and sugar together; add eggs, ex- 
cept the whites of two; juice and grated rind of the lemons; put 
in a granite sauce pan; cook until the consistency of honey; re- 
move to jars and it is ready for use any time. When ready to use 
make a good puff paste; roll out and put in patty pans, and fill 
with the fillinsf and bake in a moderate oven. 



200 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



DESSERT CAKE. 



3 tablespoons of loaf su^ar, 

3 tablespoons of flour, 
2 tablespoons of milk, 

I teaspoon of lemon extract, 

4 eggs, 

Y-z teaspoon of soda. 

Directions.^ — Sift sugar and flour; whip the yolks and sugar 
together; add the milk; then the beaten whites of the eggs, flour 
and lemon; last add the soda dissolved in a little warm water; 
mix lightly and put on buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. 



ICE CREAM CAKES 



Whites of 3 eggs, 

I small cup of white sugar, 

I large coffee cup of flour, 

1 teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
Yz teaspoon of soda, 

Yi teaspoon of lemon extract, 

2 tablespoons of cold water. 

Directions. — Beat eggs to a stiff froth; sift sugar and flour; 
sift the sugar in lightly; add the water; then the flour 
with the cream of tartar and soda sifted into it; flavor and drop 
in buttered tins, about two inches apart; bake in a quick oven; 
remove from oven and ice on top. Very nice with cream. 



FANCY DISHES. 201 



RAISIN SPIRALS. 



)4 cup of butter, 

I cup of sugar, 

Whites of 3 eggs, yolk of i, 

yz cup of water, 

1 cup of raisins, 
3 cups of flour, 

2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

DiRKCTioNS.^ — Cream the butter and sugar; beat the eggs 
very light; sift flour and baking powder together; add water to 
butter, sugar and eggs; put flour in a mixing bowl; chop raisins 
and add them; after all is mixed with the flour make stiff and 
roll out, and have a round stick three-fourths inche in diameter; 
roll around this to make a curl, and then fry in nice fresh lard, 
or lard and butter together; fry a nice brown and take out and 
roll in cinnamon, then sugar. 



ORANGE BISCUITS. 



Take medium sized oranges, boil them; changing the water 
several times; when done or tender remove them and halve, and 
take out the pulp and juice; then dry the peel; pound it in a 
mortar, till it is powdered; then measure, and take as much loaf 
sugar as you have of the orange powder, sift both sugar and 
powder of the oranges together; add the juice of the oranges; 
make a paste; spread rather thin on dishes and dry in the sun or 
before the fire, when half dry make into biscuit shape and put 
in the sun again till perfectly dry; then put away in boxes with 
white paper between. These are very nice, though requiring 
patience to make them. 



202 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO MAKE SUGAR DROPS. 



3 tablespoons of butter, 
2 eggs, 

I large cup of flour, 
y^ cup of loaf sugar, 
y^ teaspoon of nutmeg. 

Directions: — Whip the eggs light; add the butter and 
sugar; next sift the flour in and add the nutmeg; mix lightly; 
butter a tin and drop by spoonfuls on and put in the centre of 
each a candied plum; bake in a quick oven. They are very nice. 



MISCELLANEOUS FOR THE TABLE. 203 



Miscellaneous for the Table. 



PEACH MERINGUE. 



Yi dozen very ripe peaches, 
6 tablespoons of sugar, 
6 eggs. 

Directions. — Pare and mash the peaches; put them in a 
baking dish; sprinkle three tablespoons of sugar over them; 
whip the whites of the eggs and add the remainder of the sugar; 
pour over the peaches and set in the oven and brown slightly. 
Serve with a sauce. 



A NICE APPLE DESSERT. 



lo apples, 

1 pound of sugar, 

1 pint of water, 

2 oranges, 

I pint of cream. 

Directions. — Pare the apples; cut round ways in slices 
about one-half inch thick; put on in a kettle; add sugar and 
water, having water hot; cook for five minutes; then add the 
apples, cook until done and clear, but do not stir or cover over; 
remove to a dish and add the juice of the oranges to the syrup 
and pour over; whip one pint of cream and sweeten; flavor with 
orange; when whipped very stiff, pile on top of apples in the 
dish. This makes a delicious dessert, as well as beautiful. 



204 THE CAPJTAL COOK BOOK. 



A DELICIOUS DESSERT. 



I quart of very ripe berries, 

Yz gallon of ice cream, 
DiRFXTioNs: — Pick and wash any kind of ripe berries, after 
draining through a colander; have the cream froen a nd put in a 
mold; line the mold first with the cream; then fill in with the 
berries and put more cream on top; pack in ice for half an hour; 
tarn out in glass dish and serve with any good cake. 



BERRY FLOAT. 



Take raspberres or strawberries; sprinkle sugar over them; 
let stand awhile, then press through a colander to remove the 
seeds; to every cup of the juice and pulp add one large cup of 
sugar and the whites of two eggs; mix well and beat up till it will 
stand up in a dish. This is very nice and with the addition of a 
little whipped cream, is better. 



BLANC MANGE. 



I quart of new milk, 

5 tablespoons of corn starch, 

4 tablespoons of sugar, 

DiRKCTiONS: — Put milk on to scald; wet the corn starch with 
a little of the milk before it gets warm; then add the sugar; mix 
well; then stir into boiling milk; cook till it thickens, then re- 
move and put in molds that have been standing in water; when 
cool turn out on plates and serve with any ^ood jelly around it, 
and sweet cream. 



MISCELLANEOUS FOR THE TABLE. 2U5 



FLOAT. 

I pint of cream, 
I pint of new milk, 
I cup of sugar, 

4 teaspoons of lemon, 

5 eggs, 

I teaspoon of brandy. 

Directions. — Put the milk on in a double boiler; heat till 
scalding hot; then add the yolks of the eggs whipped light, with 
the sugar and a little cold milk; add to the milk and cook till it 
begins to thicken a little; then remove from stove and have the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff; cook for a few minutes in hot 
water, by dropping by spoonfuls; put float in glasses and add 
brandy and one spoonful of the cooked whites to every glass. 



GOOSEBERRY FLOAT. 



I pint of gooseberries, 
I cup of hot water, 
I tablespoon of butter, 

1 cup of sugar, 

2 eggs. 

Directions. — Stem and wash the berries; put on to cook in 
the cup of water; cook till very tender; press through a colander; 
add the sugar, butter and beaten yolks of the eggs; beat till it is 
light; put it in a glass dish; for the top, whisk the whites of the 
eggs very stiff; add the half cup of sugar; flavor with lemon; 
heap on top of the berries and serve. 



200 rrri'. capital cook book. 



BLACKBERRY MUSH. 



I quart of fresh berries, 

i^ cups of sugar, 

y^ cup of flour, 

3^ pint of water. 
Directions: — Pick the berries over; pour in a kettle; add 
the sugar and water; when boiling add flour dissolved in a little 
cold water; let cook until it thickens; remove and mold. Serve 
with cream. 



CHERRY CHEESE. 



Use only very ripe red cherries; stone them; put in a bowl; 
wash thoroughly; to each cup of the fruit, add one cup of loaf 
sugar; put on to cook; simmer until it is a thick mass and will 
je.U; keep it in tumblers; it will be very nice sliced and laid on 
a flat glass dish, and served with whipped cream. 



A NICE WAY TO SERVE ORANGES WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Slice them moderately thin and put one fourth of a box of 
gelatine to soak in cold water fifteen minutes; then pour one pint 
of hot water over it and one-fourth of a cup of sugar; let it set till 
almost cool; then have the oranges put in sauce dishes; pour the 
jell in each dish and when it is set, pile the whipped cream on 
top and set on ice until ready to serve. 



MISCELLANEOUS FOR THE TABLE. m^i 



SPONGE OF PINE APPLE. 



I pine apple, 
I y^ cups of white sugar, 
I small package of gel tine, 
1 1^ cups of cold water, 
5 eggs, (whites only) 

Directions. — Soak the gelatine two hour in one-half cup of 
water; chop the pineapple very fine; put into a sauce pan and 
cook till tender enough to press through a colander; then add 
gelatine, after straining it, and mix well together; remove from 
the stove; let it partly cool; then add the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff; whip until it begins to thicken; pour into a mold 
and set in a cool place or on ice. Serve with any good sauce 
that is preferred. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 



i^ pound vanilla chocolate, 

4 ounces of white sugar, 

Yi pint of new milk, 

^ ounce of gelatine, 

1/3 pint of whipped cream. 

Directions. — Line a mold with sponge cake; cut in slices 
about one inch wide; grate the chocolate in the milk; add the 
sugar; let boil; then dissolve the gelatine in a little milk; add 
the whipped cream and mix it well together; pour this over the 
cake in the mold till set, and then serve. 



208 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



PEACH CHEESE. 

6 peaches, 

I cup of white sugar, 

3 eggs. 

DiRKCTiONS: — Pare very ripe peaches; rub through a colan- 
der; then add the sugar and yolks ot the eggs beaten light; last 
add the whites beaten stiff; put into a buttered dish; set in the 
oven and bake for about fifteen minutes; serve at once with a 
sauce. 



RICE SNOW BALLS 



I teacup of rice, 

I quart of milk, 

I pinch of salt. 
Directions: — Wash rice; put on in the cold milk, let cook 
till well done, but slov/ly as the milk is apt to burn; when done 
turn out in small teacups; let set and remove to a platter; serve 
with the following custard: . 

1 pint of cream, 

2 eggs, 

I small cup of sugar, 

I teaspoon of flavoring. 
Heat the cream; then stir the eggs.in after being beaten 
well; cook until it thickens; then flavor and add the sugar last; 
let cool and pour around the snow balls. 



MISCELLANEOUS FOR TL/E TABLE. 209 



RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE. 



I dozen lady fingers, 

I pint of cream, 

3^ cup of sugar, 

l^ cup of raspberr}' juice, 

I pint of ripe berries. 

Directions: — First line a mold with lady fingers; whip the 
cream with sugar and raspberry juice; set on ice until almost 
frozen, then pour in the mold with the lady fingers; pile the cream 
up in the centre and put the ripe berries around on top; set on 
ice again; when ready to serve, remove from the mold and pour 
cream around it in the dish. 



A VERY NICE DESSERT. 



2 cups of water, 

1 cup of sugar, 

2 lemons, 

3 oranges, 

I package of gelatine. 

DiRKCTioNs: — Dissolve the gelatine in one cup of cold 
water; extract the juice from the lemons and oranges; strain 
through a jelly bag; heat until hot, then add the other cup of 
water and turn into molds; serve with fruits; put in before it sets; 
use bananas and oranges, or some candied cherries; slice 
orantres and bannaas thin. 



210 THK CAP/'J'AL COOK' BOOK'. 



PINEAPPLE MOUSSE. 

I good sized pineapple, 

I cup of sugar, 

3 tablespoons of brand}', 

I quart of good cream. 
DiRKCTiONS:— Pare and cut three-fourths of the pineapple; 
put in a chopping bowl, pound very fine; pass through a sieve; 
whip your cream; next add the sugar and brandy to the apple; 
add the cream last; put in a freezer and freeze; garnish with the 
remainder of the apple. This will be found delicious on hot 
days. 



APPLE SNOW. 



5 large apples, 

i^ cup sof sugar, 

2 eggs, 

I teaspoon of lemon. 
Directions: — Pare and quarter the apples; stew done and 
mash fine; pass through a colander; add the sugar and beat the 
whites of the two eggs; add flavoring and whip until ver}' light 
and serve heaped in a glass dish with cream. 



HOT AND COLD DRINKS. 211 



Hot and Cold Drinks. 



COFFEE, NO. 1. 



2 quarts of boiling water, 

^ pound of ground coffee, 

I egg. 
Directions: — Beat the egg up well; add to the coffee; stir 
well; let stand awhile, then add a little cold water, then the boil- 
ing water; let boil five minutes; strain into a china coffee-pot 
(or silver); keep in a warm place till ready to serve. A very 
nice way is to grind your coffee and weigh and measure it; after- 
wards it is no trouble in making your coffee. 



TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE NO. 2. 

One cup of ground coffee; one half of an egg; mix the egg 
thoroughly with the coffee; put a small amount of water on and 
let it set on the back of the stove for a half an hour; then pour 
to this six cups of boiling hot water; let it boil for five minutes, 
stirring it several times while boiling, as it makes better coffee 
to stir it often while boiling; when boiled this length of time, set 
it back on the stove and it is ready to serve and will be as clear 
as amber. 



212 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE, NO 1. 



2 tablespoons of chocolate, 
5 cups of water, 

3 tablespoons of sugar, 
1 egg. 

Directions. — Dissolve the chocolate in a little warm water; 
put into a kettle, with five cups of water; beat the whole egg up; 
add the sugar and the egg; stir enough to mix; let simmer, but 
do not let it boil. Is nice to serve with toast; some like choco- 
late flavored with rose extract or lemon, but is very nice without. 



TO MAKE GOOD CHOCOLATE, NO. 2. 

The first thing requisite to making good chocolate is to 
purchase only the best quality; allow only one-fourth of an ounce 
of chocolate to each person; to every fourth of an ounce allow 
one large cup of hot water and one cup of new milk; heat them 
and scrape the chocolate in and mix well, let it come to the 
boiling point and serve immediately with loaf sugar. Made ex- 
actly by this it will be found excellent. 



TO MAKE GOOD TEA. 



To make tea for six persons, allow one teaspoon of tea 
to each pint of hot water; put in an earthen tea-pot; let stand 
for twenty minutes and serve; keep the the tea-pot very hot. 



HOT AND COLD DRINKS. 213 



RASPBERRY WATER. 

Take one quart of raspberries; mash them and strain; add 
the juice from one lemon, two cups of white sugar and five cups 
of water; stir till the sugar dissolves; then bottle for use. It can 
be diluted with water, but is not too strong. It should be set 
on ice at least one hour before serving. 



PEACH WATER. 



Use one pint of peach jam, one-half cup of sweet almonds, 
after pounding them to a morter, one cup of sugar, juice of four 
lemons, one quart of water; strain and it is ready to use. 



CURRANT WATER. 



One quart of very ripe currants, taken off the stem, one 
quart of water, one pint of sugar and juice of three lemons; 
strain and bottle and it is ready to use. 



STRAWBERRY WATER. 



One pint of berries, one lemon, two cups of sugar, one pint 
of water; rrash the berries; add the lemon juice, sugar and 
water; strain through a jelly bag and bottle. Is very nice served 
ice cold. 



214 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



A NICE CHERRY DRINK 

Take very ripe cherries, the Morrillas are the best; put 
them in a bowl, and after being pitted, mash with the hands; 
then strain; to two pints of juice add one cup of lemon juice, 
three cups of sugar and one quart of water; mix well together, 
and it is ready to serve. 



RASPBERRY SHRUB. 



Take a half gallon of ripe berries; cover with cider vinegar; 
let stand for about two days; then strain through a jelly bag, 
and to every cup of juice, add one cup of white sugar; then put 
on the stove in a granite iron kettle and cook for one-half an 
hour; when cool, bottle and cork; must be kept in a dark, cool 
place; allow one cup of this to one-half gallon of ice water. Is 
a very nice drink. 



TO MAKE LEMONADE. 



Allow four lemons to two quarts ot ice water, and one pint 
of white sugar; roll until they are soft; use a lemon squeezer, if 
one can be had, as with one, the juice can be more easily ex- 
tracted from the lemons, and more thoroughly, as well; mix and 
let stand on ice awhile, and it is ready to serve. 



HOT AND COLD DRINKS. 2j5 



PEACH ICE CREAM. 

i^ quarts of cream, 

1^2 pints of peaches, 

2 cups of sugar, 

2 whole eggs, 

I pint of water. 
Directions: — Boil the water and sugar together for at least 
five minutes; pass the peaches through a colander, then add 
them to the syrup; then the beaten eggs; cook for five minutes, 
stir constantly; then take from the fire and place in cold water; 
whip the cream and add when cold and freeze; pack to ripen. 
Serve with peach short cake. 



PLAIN ICE CREAM. 



y^ gallon of new milk, 

1 quart of cream, 
4 eggs, 

2 teac.ups of sugar, 

I tablespoon of vanilla. 
Directions: — Beat the eggs separately; add the sugar to 
the yolks of the eggs; beat till light, then add the milk; put in a 
double boiler, cook three minutes, then remove and let cool; 
whip the cream and add to the milk; then the beaten whites of 
the eggs and flavoring and it is ready to freeze. 



216 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



ICE COFFEE. 



Make some coffee very strong; strain into an earthen pitch- 
er; let cool, then set on ice till wanted to serve; put some crack- 
ed ice in each glass. 



TO MAKE ICE TEA. 



Make as for other tea, only a little stronger; cool as directed 
for coffee; set on ice and serve with cracked ice, same as for 
coffee. So many wait till almost ready to serve coffee or tea and 
then attempt to get it cold enough by putting ice in, and it makes 
it too weak and is not fit to drink. 



CREAMS AND ICES. 217 



-Creams AND Ices. 



RUSSIAN CREAM. 



)/z package of gelatine, 

1 quart of milk, 
3 eggs, 

2 small cups of sugar, 

I tablespoon of vanilla. 
DiRKCTiONs: — Soak gelatine in enough water to cover it, for 
four hours; scald the milk; remove from the stove; let cool a 
little; add the beaten yolks, sugar and gelatine; stir while 
mixing; return to the fire; boil five minutes, stirring constantly; 
remove again and stir in the beaten whites; add the flavoring; 
strain and put in a mold wet with cold water. Eat cold, with 
sauce if preferred. 



NEW YORK ICE CREAM. 



2 quarts of cream, 

1 large cup of sugar, 

2 teaspoons of strawberry flavoring. 

Directions. — Whip the cream about one-half the time you 
would for desserts; add the sugar before you begin to whip the 
cream; then add the flavoring just before putting in the freezer. 
This will be found excellent if made exactly by recipe. 



2\6 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



GINGER DRINK 



To a glass of ice water; stir in one tablespoon of vinegar 
and two tablespoons of sugar, and about one-fourth teaspoon of 
ginger. This is a very invigorating drink in warm weather. 



OATMEAL DRINK. 



I pound of oatmeal, 

Yo cup of white sugar, 

I lemon, 

I gallon of hot water. 
DiRFXTiONS: — Put in a porcelain kettle the oatmeal, sugar 
and juice of the lemon with a little water; mix well and add the 
gallon of hot water; set on ice till cold and serve. 



NECTAR. 



5 oranges, 
3 lemons, 

1 can of pineapples, 

2 quarts of water, 
2 cups of sugar. 

Directions: — Extract the juice from the lemon and oranges; 
add the sugar and juice of the can of pineapples; last the v/ater; 
stir all together and put in pieces of broken ice; when very cold, 
serve. 



CREAMS AND ICES. 21$) 



STRAWBERRY AND LEMON ICE. 

I pound of white sugar, 
i^ large cups of cold water, 
I quart of strawberry juice, 
I lemon. 

Directions. — Boil sugar and water together until thick; 
remove from stove and add juice of lemon and strawberries; put 
in a freezer and freeze. 



LEMON [CE. 



6 lemons, 

3 cups of sugar, 

4 quarts of water, 

y{ ounce of gelatine. 
DiRFX'TioNs. — Squeeze the juice from the lemons; add the 
sugar; then dissolve the gelatine in boiling water; add this; 
strain and freeze. This is very nice. 



GRAPE ICE. 

2 cups of ripe grapes, 
2 pounds of sugar, 
2 quarts of water. 
Whites of 5 eggs, 
2 lemons. 

Directions. — Wash the grapes; squeeze the juice from the 
lemons and add to grapes; strain through a jelly bag and add the 
sugar; put in a freezer and freeze; add eggs, whisked light, 
when about half frozen. 



22(1 rilE CAPriAL COOK BOOK. 

i^- 



NEAPOLITAN ICE. 



I pint of raspberry ice, 
I pint of lemon ice, 
I pint of strawberry ice, 
I pint of orange ice, 
I pint of pineapple ice. 

DiRF.CTiONS.— Make the ices by any recipe for ices; after all 
is frozen, but not too stiff, remove each one as it is frozen; put 
in a mold or flat pan; when one of the light ices is put in, put 
the raspberry then one of the light ones, then the strawberry; 
last a light one; pack close together, by pressing down, set the 
mold on ice and set away for several hours to ripen; when ready 
to serve slice like cake. This makes a beautiful ice. 



FRUIT ICE CREAM. 



Make as any ordinary cream; squeeze the juice from the 
fruit and add the sugar; mix well; add to the milk; whip the 
cream as in other creams; add this and freeze. The juice from 
several kinds of fruit makes an excellent cream. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 



Make as you would the plain cream, but reserve one cup of 
sugar, melt the sugar with one-fourth cup of water, and one cup 
of grated chocolate, by setting the pan in hot water and stirring 
till it looks smooth; when cold add the flavoring; mix with the 
cream and freeze. 



CKEAMS AND /CES. 221 



ORANGE ICE. 



5 oranges, 

I lemon, 

3 cups of sugar, 

3 quarts of water. 
Directions:^ — Extract the juice from the oranges and lemon; 
add the sugar and water; put in a freezer and freeze until very 
stiff; remove dash and beat with a paddle till smooth; pack in 
ice at least half a day. 



STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 

2 tablespoons of gelatine, 

1 quart of ripe berries, 

2 cups of sugar, 

1 cup of water, 

2 cups of cream. 

Directions: — Soak the gelatine in the cup of cold water; soak 
half an hour; mash the berries; add the sugar and strawberries 
and set the gelatine over boiling water after it is dissolved; then 
strain through a cloth and add to the other; add the cream last. 
Set on ice until very cold. 



LEMON ICE CREAM. 



2 lemons, 

2 large cups of sugar, 

Yo gallon of new milk, 

I pint of cream. 
DiREC'iioNs: — Squeeze the juice from the lemons; add to the 
sugar and put on a stove to heat till well blended together; then 
cool and add to the milk and whip the cream and adTi this to the 
other and freeze. 



222 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



FRENCH CREAM. 



I quart of new milk, 
^ of a box of gelatine, 

4 eggs, 

5 tablespoons of sugar, 
I teaspoon of vanilla. 

DiRFXTiONS. — Dissolve the gelatine in one-half of the milk; 
put almost all of the remainder of th^ milk in a boiler or kettle 
and heat until it comes to a boil; then stir the gelatine and milk 
into this; beat the eggs separately; add the milk that was left 
and stir the yolks in; flavor with the vanilla; mix well; whip and 
put in a mold; pour the mixture in on the whites and they will 
rise to the top; set on ice or a cool place and when cold the clear 
gelatine will be next to the last and whites on top. Serve with 
any good sauce or cream. 



BAKED ICE CREAM. 



This quite a novelty. Make a rich puff paste; roll out the 
usual thickness; freeze the cream till it is frozen as much as it 
can be frozen; then make into balls and put one ball into each 
piece of pastry rolled out; roll as for dumplings, have it all ready, 
also the pan to bake them in, before making the cream into balls; 
put the cream in and wet the edges of the crust and enclose 
lightly; put in a quick oven and immediately they are done; 
serve at once. It is quite a novelty, indeed; for if done as quick 
as possible the surprise will be that the cream is melted but 
very little. 



CREAMS .LVn fCES. 223 



ICE CREAM,— EXCELLENT. 



3 quarts of rich cream, 

2 wliole eggs, 

I cup of white sugar, 

]^ teaspoon of soda, — very scant, 

3 teaspoons of vanilla. 

Directions: — First whip the cream v/ith the soda added 
till light, but not stiff; then beat the eggs with the sugar and 
flavoring; then mix well together and put in the freezer and freeze 
till well frozen; remove dash and whip lightly with a spoon and 
pack and set away to ripen at least four hours. This, if made 
properly, can not be excelled. 



TUTTI FRUTTI, 



Take one quart of cream, two ounces of sweet almonds; after 
being chopped fine, add one-half a pound of sugar; mix well to- 
gether and put in a freezer and freeze about half as much as us- 
ually for cream; now mix in one pint of candied strawberries; 
pack and set away for several hours before serving. This is fine. 



LEMON SHERBET. 



One cup of lemon juice, two cups of white sugar, three 
cups of cold water; mix well together and freeze till stiff, but 
care has to be taken not to freeze too much, as this spoils any 
kind of ices. 



224 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK'. 



ORANGE SHERBET. 

y^ gallon of water, 
5 oranges, 
3 cups of sugar, 
2 lemons, 
Whites of 3 eggs. 

DiRFxrioNs. — Extract the juice from the oranges and lemons; 
add the sugar; beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and add last, 
after adding the juice and sugar to the water, put in a freezer 
and freeze. Serve when frozen about half as much as cream. 



ROMAN PUNCH. 



I })int of fruit s} rup, 
I glass of brand}'. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 

DiKEciioNs. — Take any kind of fruit desired; after extract- 
ing the juice, add sugar to make a syrup; then put the brandy 
in, and have the freezer ready; put in and freeze until about 
half frozen; then add the whites of the eggs, whipped stiff, and 
proceed to finishing freezing. Should be frozen as any other 
ices. 



CRIMSON SHERBET. 



Two cups of strawberry juice, one cup of lemon juice, one 
pint of granulated sagar, two pints of cold water; add water and 
sugar and boil for five minutes; then remove, and when cool add 
the juice of the fruit -ind strain through a jelly bag: put in a 
■freezer and freeze; remove the dasher and pack till wanted to 
serve. The white of an egg to this amount, beaten stiff, and 
added to a cup of sugar, is an addition, putting in after it lias 
been frozen, befon- it is packi'd. 



CANDY MAKING AT HOME. 225 



Candy Making at Home. 



CANDY MAKING. 

It seems as though it would be a difficult task, but if properly 
managed, will not fail to give satisfaction, and the following 
recipes will be found suffiicent to give a variety of candies, and 
they all are excellent, if made exactly by the recipes given. 
Glucose enters largely into nearly all candies. It is simply 
syrup made from corn, and if needed, can be procured from any 
confectioner. The pans used to boil candy in should either be 
granite, or porcelain lined, and there will be no coloring from 
the pan. 



TO MAKE MARSH MALLOWS. , 

^ pound of loaf sugar, 
y^ pound of gum arabic, 
I cup of water. 
Whites of 2 egg. 

DiRKcnoNs. — Add the gum arabic to the water; dissolve 
thoroughly, and strain; add the sugar to this; put on the stove; 
stir until the sugar is dissolved; now add the whites of the eggs, 
well beaten; stir in gradually; stir till the mixture seems thin; 
and it will not adhere to the fingers; y)our in pans; sprinkle with 
corn starch; cut in squares, and dip in powdered sugar. 



226 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



A GOOD HOAKHOUND CANDY. 



2 pints of water, 

2 ounces of dried hoarhoiind, 

3 pounds of brown sugar. 

Directions: — Put the hoarhound in the water, boil until the 
strength is extracted from the hoarhound; then strain, and add 
the sugar; boil until it is very brittle, but do not stir; pour into 
buttered tins, and when almost cold cut in sticks or squares. 
This is fine. 



TO MAKE NUT CARAMELS. 



These are made as other caramels, except just before remov- 
ing from the stove the meats from hickory nuts are added; in fact 
any kind of nut meats are nice for this candy; do not stir only 
enough to mix the meats properly with the candy; pour on but- 
tered plates and cut in small pieces or in sticks. Peanut 
candy is nice made in this way. 



CREAM TAFFY. 



ly-z cups of white sugar, 

y^ cup of vinegar, 

)^ cup of water, 

I small piece of butter, 

I teaspoon of strawberry flavoring. 
Directions: — Put the sugar, water and vinegar together; 
add the butter, a piece the size of a walnut will be sufficient; 
boil till if put in cold water it will be brittle; pour in plates, and 
pull till it is very white; cut in sticks. 



CANDY MAKING AT HOME. 227 



A GOOD TAFFY. 



I pint of molasses, 
y^ pound of butter, 
yl cup of good vinegar. 

Directions. — Boil the molasses and butter together till it 
begins to thicken; then add the vinegar; cook till it is brittle, by 
putting in cold water; pour on plates and when partly cool 
proceed to pull it; butter or flour the hands. This makes a rich 
taffy. 



i.'HOCOLATE CARAMELS. 



2 cups of brown sugar, 

Yl cup of grated chocolate, 

I small cup of cold water, 

I tablespoon of vinegar. 

I teaspoon of lemon extract, 

I tablespoon of butter. 

Directions. — Put sugar, water, chocolate and vinegar on to 
boil; after it begins to boil add the butter and flavoring. Be 
careful and not stir any, but when it has boiled for at least 
twenty minutes try in cold water, and if brittle, pour in plates 
and cut in small squares. 



COCOANUT CREAM CANDY. 



2 pounds of white sugar, 

I cup of milk from cocoanut, 

I large cup of grated cocoanut. 

Directions. — Put the sugar on to boil with the milk from 
the cocoanut; boil for at least ten minutes; then grate the cup of 
cocoanut and add; boil for ten minutes; then remove and pour 
on plates and make into balls or cut in squares. They will be 
several days drying, but when dry are very good. 



228 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK'. 



BUTTERSCOTCH NO. 2. 

2 cups of sugar, 
2 cups of molasses, 

1 cup of butter, 

2 tablespoons of vinegar, 
34^ teaspoon of soda. 

Directions: — Put the ingredients all together and boil till 
it is well done; pour in plates, cut in squares, and if wanted to 
be kept any length of time wrap in paraffine paper. 



TO MAKE CREAM WALNUTS. 



I lb. of white sugar, 

I cup of water, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 
Directions: — Put sugar, vanilla and water together; boil 
till when put on plates will be creamy; make into small cakes, 
and have some English walnut kernels ready and press in the 
top of each two or three kernels; dip in powdered sugar and set 
aside. When properly made they are fine. 



MAPLE CREAMS. 



I lb. of maple sugar, 

I cup of water, 

I piece of butter, size of a walnut. 
Directions:— Put the sugar and water on to boil; when it 
boils five minutes add the butter; boil until it begins to harden, 
then remove from the stove and make into small balls, and put 
the meats from any kind of nuts desired in between two balls; 
lay on buttered tins to harden. 



CANDY MAKING AT HOME. 229 



CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 



3 cups of pulverized sugar, 

I cup of good cream, 

I tablespoon of vanilla, 

I cup of grated chocolate. 
Directions. — Put the cream and sugar on to boil; let it 
boil for five minutes; then flavor and remove from the stove; as 
soon as it is cool enough, make into balls; put the chocolate in a 
pan and set over boiling water until it is melted thoroughly; then 
dip each ball into the chocolate and lay on a buttered plate to 
harden; these, if properly made, are excellent. 



CHOCOLATE CREAMS, NO. 2. 



y^ pound of loaf sugar; 

I cup of cream 

]/^ pound of vanilla chocolate, 

I teaspoon of strawberry flavoring. 
Directions. — Put all the ingredients into a granite iron pan; 
put the chocolate on in a pan over hot water to melt; cook the 
cream till it hardens readily in cold water; pour into a deep 
plate or dish; beat till it is cold, but it must not be stirred any 
while boiling; make into balls or squares; dip in the melted 
chocolate and lay on buttered plates to cool. Do not boil the 
cream too long, as this causes it to grain. 



BUTTERSCOTCH. 



2 pounds of brown sugar, 

i^ cup of butter, 

I small teaspoon of cream of tartar, 

I small cup of cold water, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 
Directions. — Put the cream of tartar with the sugar and 
add the water, vinegar and butter; put on to cook; boil till 
brittle; try by putting a small amount in cold water; add the 
vanilla last, just before taking from the stove; pour on plates 
and cut in squares. 



230 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



GOOD BUTTER TAFFY. 

I cup of sugar, 
I cup of water, 

1 lump of butter the size of a walnut, 

2 large tablespoons of vinegar, 
Yi teaspoon of lemon extract, 
Y teaspoon of soda. 

Directions: — Put sugar and water on to boil, also the vine- 
gar; cook about fifteen minutes, then put the butter in and cook 
till it will harden easily in cold water; stir the lemon in quickly 
and put on buttered plates to cool. Is very nice rolled or cut in 
squares. 



LEMON CANDY. 



2 cups of white sugar, 

1 large cup of water, 

2 teaspoons of vinegar, 
I lemon. 

Directions: — Add the sugar, water and vinegar together; 
cook without stirring for half an hour; then add the lemon 
juice and cook till it will harden in cold water; pour on buttered 
plates and before it has time to harden, press some walnuts or 
any kind of nuts preferred into it as far apart as the squares are 
to be cut. This i3 very nice. 



CANNED AND DRIED FKU/TS. 26\ 



Canned and Dried Fruits. 



A FEW REMARKS ON CANNING. 



The only art in canning is to be careful in selecting your 
fruit for this purpose. Only fresh, sound fruit should ever be 
used for canning purposes. In canning small fruits, such as 
currants, they should be carefully removed from the stem, and 
washed before removing from stem. In preparing cherries for 
canning, remove the pits, but the flavor is much improved by 
cracking some of them and adding a few^ to each can. Berries 
of any kind should be sound and if washed should be put in a 
sieve or colander and water poured over them, as they need not 
be handled in this way. In preparing pineapple, remove the 
eyes carefully, as this spoils the appearance if any are left in. 
Peaches should have warm water poured over them, pared and 
halved, and they should not be over ripe, as this spoils any kind 
of canned fruit, as well as not to have it ripe enough. To can 
plums, pour hot water over them and remove the skins, if they 
are a variety that have tough skins, if not do not remove them, 
but they should be put in hot water a while to remove that bitter 
taste that most plums have. Pears should be pared and cut in 
halves; the air must be entirely excluded from the fruit to 
insure it keeping well. 



232 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO CAN CHERRIES. 

After removing the pits from the cherries put them in a 
porcelain kettle and to every quart of cherries, put one-half 
a pound of sugar; cook for five minutes; have the cans dry and 
hot; heat them by putting in hot water; fill the cans and put a 
piece of writing paper over the top, after wetting it in brandy, 
over this put some white sugar and your fruit will never mould. 



CANNED PEACHES. 



Have only firm, ripe peaches; pare and drop in cold water, 
in the mean time have the fruit kettle with one cup of water and 
fill in v/ith peaches and for each quart of fruit allow one half cup 
of white sugar sprinkled over the fruit; when the kettle is filled, 
heat it slowly to the boiling point, then boil three minutes and 
proceed to fill the cans with the peaches; have plenty of syrup 
on the top as they will keep better; have the cans perfectly dry, 
as that prevents mould. 



TO PUT UP CORN WITH ACID. 

Use two ounces of tartaric acid to every pint of water. Cut 
the corn from the cob, add just enough water to cook it suffici- 
ently. When done add two tablespoons of acid solution to ev- 
ery quart of corn. Put in the cans and seal immediately, and 
put in a dry, cool place. When using add one-fourth teaspoon 
of soda to each quart of corn. Let it stand for several minutes 
before putting on to cook. Never cook corn in tin. Season 
with butter, salt and cream. Beans and peas can be put up the 
same way. 



CANNED AND DRIED FRUITS. 233 



TO CAN EGG PLANT. 



Peel and slice them; lay in cold water slightly salted; fill 
the cans and add about one pint of cold water; proceed to seal 
and cook as above. The plant is very nice to cook in winter, 
and helps to furnish a variety. 



TO CAN SQUASH. 



Choose a good mealy squash for canning; cut in rather small 
pieces and boil till well done and mash and fill the cans; have 
the cans very hot and seal immediately and put away in a cool 
place. 



TO CAN CORN. 



After husking the corn, remove the silks carefully, then cut 
the corn from the cob; pack closely in the cans; screw the tops 
on and do not add any water; proceed as in canning tomatoes or 
beans; when cold see that the tops are on as tight as they can be 
made and wrap them in paper and keep in a dark, dry place. 



TO CAN BEANS. 



Choose tender beans and cut in small pieces as for cooking; 
fill the cans and add water till the cans will be full, then put the 
top on and screw tight; put in the water and boil for three hours, 
let remain in the water till cold and again examine the cans and 
see that they are perfectly tight. Close attention is all that is 
needed to insure success in canning at home. 



234 rilE CAPIJ'AL COOK BOOK. 



TO CAN STRAWBERRIES. 



If they are free from sand and dirt do not wash them, as 
they are nicer and do not cook up so much; weigh the berries, 
and allow one pound of sugar to four pounds of berries; put 
sugar in a porcelain kettle; add one cup of water, and when it 
boils add the berries; let cook a few minutes; then dip out into 
cans, and strain the syrup in; have enough syrup to cover them 
well; v/rap each can in paper; keep in a dark, cool place. 



A NICE WAY TO PUT UP BERRIES READY FOR THE TABLE. 



Take any kind of berries; pick them over; wash and drain 
them; make a rather weak syrup: keep it hot; put the berries in 
the cans; set them in cold water; after they have been in the 
water for fifteen minutes after it begins to boil, pour the syrup 
over them; let remain for fifteen minutes longer; then remove 
and seal them. They are very nice and have a good flavor. 



PEACHES PUT UP IN BRANDY 

Choose perfectly sound peaches; drop in hot water to re- 
move the roughness of the peach, and let remam a few minutes; 
then dry them on a cloth; put on in a kettle; for every pound of 
peaches put one pound of loaf sugar, one pint of water, one-half 
pint of good brandy; boil and skim the syrup; then pour over 
the peaches in a stone jar; heat for nine mornings; then heat the 
syrup and add the peaches; cook twenty minutes, briskly; put in 
jars and seal. They are ready for use in about a month. 



CANNED AND DRIED FRUfTS. 235 



ANOTHER METHOD OF CANNING PEACHES. 

Choose nice ripe peaches; pare and halve them; put in glass 
jars, and have syrup made and poured over them; set them in 
cold water and let cook sufficiently done; remove and seal; wrap 
brov/n paper around the cans. Canned in this way, they are 
very nice. 



PEARS. 



Peel and halve them; put in a steamer and cook over boiling 
water till tender, then put in jars; have a thin S3'rup made and 
strained; pour this over while boiling hot; seal and keep in a 
dark place. These are fine. 



TO CAN PEACHES BY THE COLD PROCESS. 

Pare the peaches and halve them and put in the cans; have 
ready some syrup made of white sugar and water, boiled till well 
dissolved; pour enough of this over to cover the peaches; set 
away to allow the syrup to settle down in the cans, and fill 
again. This time seal and put in a dark, dry place. If not kept 
from the light they will not keep as well. In canning this way 
only perfectly sound fruit should be used. 



236 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO CAN TOMATOES. 

Put the tomatoes in a steamer until the skins can be easily 
removed; slice in rather thick slices; put in glass jars; put the 
top on and screw tightly; put something in a wash boiler to keep 
the cans from being immediately on the bottom; then set the 
cans in and fill with cold water, almost to the top — about up to 
the lid; boil for at least two hours; do not let the water cease 
boiling; remove boiler from the fire, and do not take the cans 
from the boiler until the water is cold. 



AMOUNT OF SUGAR FOR CANNED FRUITS. 

To can any kind of small fruits ready for the table the 
amount of sugar for each quart of fruit is as follows: 

Pineapple, ]^ pound, 
Siberian Crab, }4 pound, 
Apples, Yz- pound. 
Plums, I pound. 
Apricots, I pound, 
Currants, ^ pound. 
Cherries, ^2 pound, 
Raspberries, 3^ pound. 
Quinces, ^ pound, 
Strawberries, ^ pound. 
Pears, ^ pound. 
Peaches, 3^ pound. 
Blackberries, ^ pound. 



CANNED AND DRIED EKUITS. 2\Yi 



TO DRY CHERRIES AND PLUMS. 

Remove the pits from them and sprinkle sugar over them; 
set in the oven for at least half a day and then they can be pat 
in the sun to finish drying. They are very nice when dried for 
mince pies and for puddings; are nice to garnish with if let dry 
about half then put in stone jars, a layer of fruit then a layer- of 
sugar, and will be convenient to use at any time. 



DRIED PEACHES. 



Take very ripe peaches, cut them in halves, and expose to 
the hot sun until thoroughly dried; they should be protected 
from the flies by stretching a mosquito bar over them, and all 
fruit should be treated in the same way while drying; it requires 
several days for peaches to dry. 



TO DRY BLACKBERRIES AND RASPBERRIES. 



Pick the berries carefully, and put in a cool oven long 
enough to dry all the juice from around them; then put on a 
cloth in the hot sun for several days; on putting out in the 
morning stir them up well, as by this means they will be dried 
all through alike. All small fruits can be dried in this way. 



TO DRY APPLES. 



Pare and quarter them; put on a cloth or board in the hot 
sun; cover them as any other fruit, with mosquito bar, as this 
insures them from flies and dust; it will require several da3's to 
dry apples; when dried they can be put away in sacks or boxes 
for future use. 



238 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



DRIED GRAPES, 

Pick nice ripe grapes; put on a cloth in the hot sun, or can 
be dried in the stove, but are nicer sun dried. Dry until 
perfectly dry or they will mould. 



GRAPES TN SUGAR 



Pick only sound grapes; dry partly in the sun; then pack in 
a jar; a layer of grapes and one of brown sugar. Do net pick 
the grapes from the stem; cover with two inches of sugar on top. 
When properly dried they are as nice as raisins. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 239 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 



TO SERVE DIFFERENT KINDS OF FRUIT. 

Grapes:- — Grapes should be pulled when nicely ripe; select 
large bunches and arrange in a tall glass dish with a'few grape 
leaves around the edge as a garnish. 

Peaches: — Choose nice ripe peaches, but not too ripe, as 
they do not look so nice; they are much nicer on plates; pull 
some with a leaf or two attached. 

Cherries: — Cherries should be pulled if possible with the 
stem, and as many cherries attached to one stem as can be, as 
they look very pretty in a glass dish, also with some of the leaves. 

Watermelon: — Put the melon in a refrigerator until 
thoroughly chilled; when ready to serve remove and cut round- 
ways, put on plates and send to the table; or some prefer to 
serve them with the rind cut away and eaten with an orange 
spoon. 

Cantaloupes: — Cantaloupes are well chilled before serving, 
same as the melons, but not sliced as melons, they are sliced 
length-wise; pepper and salt each slice; arrange on plates and 
serve. 

Oranges: — Oranges are nice cut in halves, and served on 
small plates and eaten with an orange spoon; or sliced thin, 
sprinkled with sugar, and let stand several hours on ice. Are 
very nice both ways. 

Berries oe any kind: — Pick carefully, removing all stems; 
lay in a colander and pour water over them, in order not to 
bruiie the fruit by handling too much; let them drain, then put 
in a fruit or berry dish; sprinkle liberally with sugar, and set on 
ice until ready to serve; can be served with cake and cream or 
alone. 



240 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CORN MOCK OYSTERS. 

2 cups Derated corn, 
^2 cup of milk, 
Yo cup of flour, 

1 tablespoon of butter, 

2 eggs, 

I teaspoon of salt, 

y^- teaspoon of pepper. 

Directions. — Grate the corn from the cob; whisk the eggs 
and add; then add the milk, salt and pepper; sift in the flour; 
have ready the frying pan with some butter, (same as for frying 
ousters;) drop in a large spoonful of the dough; fry until brown, 
turn on the other side; serve on hot plates. These will be 
found nearly as good as oysters. 



HINTS ON THE HOME DAH^Y. 

In setting the. milk, is soon as it is strained it is a good plan 
to set it in cold water, if ice cannot be procured; forty degrees 
temperature is about right to raise cream perfectly; there should 
never be more than one inch of milk in one pan, as the cream 
raises more quickly; the cream should not be skimmed when 
wanted, for churning purposes under twenty-four hours, and 
when skimmed into a jar should be well stirred two or three 
times a day, and when evenly soured through and slightly acid 
it is ready to churn and in making good butter there should 
never be any water put in while churning, but if too cool set in 
warm water and let stand awhile till it is the right heat. The too 
common practice of scalding the cream renders the butter unflt 
for use; also the salting of the butter is often spoiled by using 
coarse salt and not being careful to roll it to mash all the lumi)s. 
The butter ought to be worked thoroughly twice, and this will 
insure no milk or streaks that is so often found in butter, which 
makes it unsaleable. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 241 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 



2 tablespoons of tapioca, 

3 eggs 

I quart of milk, 

I small cup of sugar, 

I teaspoon of vanilla. 
Directions: — Cover the tapioca with cold water; let stand 
over night, then pour the water off and add the milk; put on the 
stove and stir in the yolks of the eggs; let it boil two minutes; 
add the sugar and flavoring; remove, and when nearly cold, add 
the beaten whites of the eggs; mix lightly and serve in custard 
glasses. 



STEAMED RICE. 



I cup of rice, 

3 cups of hot water, 

I pinch of salt. 
Directions: — Wash the rice; put in a small pan and set in 
a steamer over a kettle of boiling water; after it is cooked almost 
done, add salt; in this way the grains are preserved whole and 
looks very nice and white. Serve with sauce. 



MACARONI WITH BUTTER. 



Boil the macaroni till tender in weak salt water; put on a 
plate; take one large tablespoon of butter; put in the stove to 
melt; first grate some cheese over the macaroni, then pour over 
the melted butter and serve at once. This is very nice. 



242 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 

CORN CUSTARD. 

4 large ears of corn, 

1 cup of sweet milk, 
3 eggs, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

j^ teaspoon of black pepper, 

I teaspoon of salt. 
Directions: — Cut the corn from the cob; whisk theeggs un- 
til light, add them to the corn; then the milk, salt, pepper and 
butter; butter a baking dish and after mixing well, put in and 
bake half an hour in a moderate oven. You will find this a very 
nice way to cook corn. When green corn is not in season, can- 
ned corn will do nicely. 



BUTTER CUPS. 



« eggs, 

I teaspoon of butter. 
I teaspoon of mustard, 
y^ teaspoon of pepper, 
I teaspoon of salt, 
I cup of chicken, 

1 cup of ham, 
Yz of an onion, 

2 tablespoons of bread crumbs, 
I cup of gravy. 

Directions: — Boil eggs hard; cut a small piece off the end of 
egg and remove the yolk; set the whites in a baking dish 
powder the yolks with mustard, salt and onion chopped fine 
and melted butter, bread crumbs, minced chicken, ham; add the 
pepper and enough gravy to moisten it; roll into balls size of 
yolks put one ball into each of the whites of the eggs; pour over 
with gravy a bit of butter on each one and sprinkle a little 
cracker meal over and send to oven and bake until nicely brown- 
ed. Will require ten or fifteen minutes to bake. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 243 



STEWED APPLES. 



y^ dozen apples, 

I large cup of sugar, 

I lemon, 

I pint of water. 

Directions. — Pare and quarter the apples; pour the hot 
water over them; add the sugar; cook slow until clear; then re- 
move, and when cold put in a glass dish; add the lemon juice 
just before serving; garnish with thin slices of lemon. 



A WELCH DISH. 



34^ pound of good cheese, 

^ cup of milk, 

Yi teaspoon of mustard, 

Yi teaspoon of salt, 

I pinch of cayenne, 

I tablespoon of butter, 

5 slices of toast. 

Directions.- — Grate the cheese; add to the milk, and put in 
a kettle; mix mustard, cayenne and eggs together; beat well; 
when the cheese melts put into the mixture and add the butter; 
cook not more than three minutes; toast the bread and pour 
over; serve vyhile hot. 



MACAROONS. 



2 small cups of flour, 

Y-z cup of butter, 

I cup of sugar, 

I egg. 
Directions. — Mix well together; make into small cakes and 
dip in sugar; put in a pan and bake in a moderate oven until a 
delicate brown. 



244 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO COOK BARLEY. 



Wash the barley well; put to cook in warm water, but do 
not have it hot; let it boil a few minutes; then pour off and put 
fresh water over again; cook slowly for at least three hours, and 
sometimes it requires a little longer. Barley is served as rice. 



BOILED RICE. 



Wash the rice well; put to cook in plenty of water, boiling 
hot. It requires a long time to cook rice properly, and as it 
swells so much in cooking. It is not necessary to cook more than 
a cupful for a good sized family, it cooks better, and is nicer to 
cook in a double boiler, as it is very white and the grains are 
whole when done. It may be served plain or seasoned with 
salt and butter, and some like cream added. 



CHEESE STRAWS. 



Four tablespoons of flour, four tablespoons of cheese, two 
tablespoons of butter, one teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of 
milk, one-half teaspoon of pepper — use cayenne pepper, one- 
fourth teaspoon of nutmeg, two yolks of eggs; melt the butter; 
beat the yolks; add to the butter; sift the flour; add the nutmeg, 
pepper, salt and grated cheese; to this add the eggs, butter and 
milk; mix and roll out; cut in strips; bake in a slow oven;- serve 
with any kind of salads. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. ■ 245 



TO MAKE PREPARED MUSTARD. 

Two tablespoons of ground mustard, one of flour, one tea- 
spoon of sugar; mix the flour, mustard and sugar together; then 
pour enough boiling water over to make a stiff paste; let cool; 
then add cold vinegar till it is the consistency desired. 



CHEESE SOUFFLE. 



I cup of bread crumbs, 
^ cup of sweet milk, 
5 tablespoons of cheese, 
3 eggs, 
I pinch of salt and pepper, 

Directions. — Put the milk on the stove; let raise a boil; put 
bread crumbs in; beat smooth; add cheese, after grating, and 
add salt, pepper, and yolks beaten light; whip the whites and 
add last; butter a dish and bake in a hot oven for about fifteen 
minutes; serve warm. 



BAKED CHEESE AND RICE. 



Take one pint of rice, which has been cooked tender, one 
cup of grated cheese; grease a pan; put some rice in, then 
cheese, salt, butter, and a pinch of pepper, rice and cheese till 
all is used; put about one cup of new milk over and set in the 
oven and bake twenty minutes; serve while hot. 



246 rilE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



PLAIN CORN MUSH. 

Sift meal, and have a kettle of hot water, and salt it to taste; 
then sift the meal in, a little at a time, until it is moderately 
thick, but not too thick, as that spoils it, for it should cook at 
least one-half an hour; stir often, as that makes the mush smooth, 
which adds to the appearance, as well as the taste; serve with 
butter or cream. 



FRIED MUSH. 



Have the mush cold; slice in slices about one inch thick; 
dip in meal and fry in lard until crisp and brown; lay on a 
platter and garnish with mutton chops. 



FRENCH FRIED MUSH. 



Take any light corn bread; remove the crust; add some 
warm water; soak a few minutes; then add a pinch of salt and 
pepper; have some nice fresh fat in a frying pan; add a little 
water; stir the bread in; let remain about five minutes; dish up 
and serve while hot. 



GRAHAM MUSH. 



Put some water in a kettle, and salt it a little; stir in enough 
graham flour till it thickens enough; cook till it is well done, as 
any kind of mush needs to be cooked well, as it is easy to have a 
raw taste; serve with cream and butter. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 247 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

I quart of flour, 

1 pint of milk, 

2 tablespoons of butter, 

1 large teaspoon of salt, 

3 eggs, 

^ cup of sugar, 

2 cups of sliced peaches, 
Yz teaspoon of soda, 

I teaspoon of cream of tartar. 
Directions: — Sift flour and cream of tartar together; melt 
the butter slightly; whip the eggs light and add; dissolve soda in 
hot water and last add the peaches dredged well with the sugar; 
drop by spoonfuls in boiling lard; cook till brown; remove and 
sprinkle with sugar. Serve while warm. 



SALTED ALMONDS, 



Blanch them by laying in hot water a few minutes, when 
the inside hull or skin can be easily removed, and to one pint of 
the almonds, allow one tablespoon of melted butter and one tea- 
spoon of salt; mix well and put in a shallow pan; set in the oven 
and brown; it will take about fifteen or twenty minutes; must not 
have the oven too hot; remove to a plate and cool. These will 
be much nicer than those purchased at the[]confectioner's, be- 
cause they are fresh. 



TO COOK HOMINY. 



Take a quart of hominy; put on in enough water to cover 
it and cook for several hours as it takes quite awhile to cook as 
tender as it should be; when done salt and season with meat fry- 
ings, or it may be served with butter. 



348 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



MACARONI. 



Boil the macaroni in enough water to cook it tender; then 

drain and put in a dish and grate some nice cheese over it and 

then put some pieces of butter over it; salt and pepper it; heat 
a cup of cream and pour over and serve at once. 



TO MAKE PEACH LEATHER. 



Take very ripe peaches; split them in the side; remove the 

seed; spread them out and sprinkle with sugar and put in the 

sun and dry; when dried sufficientl}., roll up and put in jars. Is 
very nice to use in winter. 



TO CANDY FRUITS. 



Cook the fruits in very thick syrup; let it stand in the syrup 
for three days; skim out and lay on plates and sift sugar over 
and let stand in the sun. Following these directions, any kind 
of fruit can be candied without difficulty. They are nice served 
at the table as well as useful in preparing many articles of food, 
especially nice for mince pies and some kinds of cake, also con- 
fectionery. 



TOMATO FIGS. 



Peel small pear tomatoes; scald them slightly so the peel 
can be easily removed ; put on dishes, sprinkle with sugar, set in 
a cool oven, just warm enough to bear the hand; when dry on 
one side, turn and sprinkle with sugar and so on until they are 
as dry as you want, then pack in sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 249 



MADE MUSTARD 

I quart of hot water, 

I quart of vinegar, 

y^ pound of best mustard, 

I tablespoon of flour, 

y teaspoon of salt, 

I teaspoon of sugar. 
DiRFXTioNS. — Mix all well together, the mustard, sugar and 
salt, then add the water and vinegar; boil one-half an hour; bot- 
tle and seal. This makes fine mustard for meats. 



A GOOD BRINE FOR MEATS. 



3 gallons of water, 

I quart of rock salt, 

I tablespoon of saltpetre, 

I cup of molasses, 

I cup of brown sugar. 
Directions: — Mix all together; boil and skim, now pour 
over the meat and let it remain for four weeks, then remove and 
smoke them. They are very nice and will be as sweet and 
fresh in six months as when first taken out of the brine. 



350 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



Preserves. Jells and Jams. 



To make preserves, jells or any kind of jams successfully, 
the first thing requisite for the success of any thing of this kind 
is to use only the best sugar, as an inferior quality means a fail- 
ure in your undertaking. In making preserves, use pound for 
pound, and in jelly or most fruits that are too acid, three cups 
of sugar to four of fruit juice is sufficient, and in jellies, a small 
quantity made at a time is much better than a large one, as the 
jell will be more clear; always have the glasses warm and dry 
that you pour your jell into as this prevents moulding. Any- 
thing of this kind is better put in glass and kept well sealed. 
Always skim your syrup well, either preserves or jell, as it will 
not be strong and more clear than not to attend to this closely. 
The preparation of the fruit has been given in each recipe 
and if directions are followed, success will most assuredly be the 
result. 



CITRON PRESERVES. 



Pare and cut citron in fancy shapes; put in weak syrup; put 
on the stove with one lemon sliced to every two pounds of citron, 
cook until they are tender; then remove and have ready a syrup 
made by adding as many pounds of sugar as you have fruit; put 
the fruit in and boil slowly till it is clear; skim out into jars and 
add some ginger root; boil the syrup ten minutes longer and 
pour over the preserves and seal. 



PjRESERJ'ES, jells, and jams. . 251 

PEACH PRESERVES 

Pare and remove the stones from the peaches; put in cold 
water immediately, to keep them from turning dark; when all 
are peeled weigh your fruit, and to every pound of peaches take 
one pound of sugar; add water enough to make a good syrup; a 
good proportion will be to cook peache?, as some of them are a 
little hard to cook, allow one pint of water to each pound of 
sugar; boil and skim the syrup; now put in the peaches and cook 
them slowly till they look clear and are tender; remove to jars, 
boil the syrup five minutes and pour over them and seal. 



GRAPE PRESERVES. 



Remove the seeds, by squeezing them with the fingers; that 
will also remove the skins; put the skins in one pan and the 
pulp in another; measure both the skins and pulp, and allow one 
cup of white sugar to every cup of fruit; put the sugar on, and 
put the syrup from the grapes, inst'^ad of water; when it has 
been boiled for about one- half an hour add the fruit and cook 
for one-half an hour again; skim the preserves out and strain the 
syrup over and seal. 



DAMSON PRESERVES. 



Remove the seed, by making an incision in the side of the 
plum and putting in a steamer and heating awhile, when the seeds 
can be easily removed; now weigh, and for every pound of fruit 
allow one of loaf sugar; boil and skim the sugar and add the 
plums; cook them till they are tender and look clear; remove 
and put in glass jars and strain the syrup over them. If made 
properly, damson preserves can not be excelled for richness and 
fine flavor. 



PRUNE PRESERVES. 



Put the pruujLS on, after washing them, and cook till they 
can be pitted easily; then after pitting them put on in syrup and 
cook until they are well done; add while cooking, some lemon 
juice, but if preferred any other flavor can be used; skim out 
in a jar and pour the syrup over them. The syrup must not be 
cooked too long or it will have a strong flavor, or incline to jell. 



252 . THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



PEAR PRESERVES. 



Allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar to one of pt^ars, as 
they are much sweeter than most kinds of fruit; pare them and 
cut in halves; after making a syrup, boil about ten minutes; then 
put your pears in and cook until they look clear. Pear preserves 
are nicer if steamed before putting in the syrup, same as canning 
them; when they are cooked enough, put in glass jars and pour 
the syrup, boiling hot, over them. Pear preserves should not 
be used for several weeks after they are made. 



STRAWBERRY PRESERVES. 



Pick the berries a dry day; weigh them, after washing and 
draining them; weigh the sugar, allowing one pound to every 
pound of fruit; put on with just enough water to make syrup; 
boil and skim; add the berries, after putting them in a dish, and 
setting in the oven and heating until they are hot, so it will not 
stop the syrup from boiling in putting in the fruit, as they will 
be nicer not to stop boiling until done; boil gently till the fruit 
is clear; skim and put in jars; boil the syrup till it begins to 
thicken; then strain over the fruit. They must be strained so it 
will take out any seed that might be in the syrup. 



ORANGE PRESERVES. 



Take ripe oranges, but not too ripe; cut them in pieces 
about one-fourth of an inch thick; cut round ways and remove 
the seed; lay in water for several hours; then make a syrup, 
allowing one pound and a half of sugar to one pound of oranges; 
put one pint of water to that amount of sugar; boil and skim 
them; add the oranges and cook for one hour slowly; remove 
and cook the syrup; adding the juice of one lemon; cook one- 
half an hour; then strain over the orange. These arc fine. 



PRESEKVES. JELLS, AND JAMS. 253 



CURRANT PRESERVES. 

Pick and wash, not too ripe currants; make a thick syrup; 
put them in and cook slowly about one-half an hour; then skim 
them out and cook th«e syrup ten minutes longer and pour over 
the currants in jars and seal them up. 



CHERRY PRESERVES. 



Choose nice large cherries for preserving, and do not have 
them too ripe, as this, in some varieties, makes strong flavored 
preserves; stone them carefully; lay in a dish, and make a syrup 
of good loaf sugar or very nice granulated sugar; wash the cher- 
ries in several waters, and drain in a colander; put them in the 
boiling syrup and boil until they are clear; then remove and put 
in glass jars; pour the syrup over and seal. 



PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 



Pare and quarter the apples; remove the eyes; and to every 
pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar; boil the 
syrup for half an hour, then put in the apples; cook till well 
done and put in glass jars; strain the syrup over while boiling 
hot and seal. 



YELLOW TOMATO PRESERVES 



Scald the tomatoes; after they are cool enough, remove the 
skins and make a syrup; after boiling for one-half an hour put 
the tomatoes in, and when they have boiled till they look almost 
transparent, then put into glass jars; put in the syrup some 
pieces of ginger root; boil the syrup at least three quarters of an 
hour; then strain the syrup over the preserves. If care be taken 
in making this they are fine. 



254 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 

PLUM PRESERVES. 

After scalding the plums in water, in which a small piece of 
soda has been added; remove them, and after cooling stone 
and weigh, and allow full one pound of sugar for every pound of 
fruit; put the syrup to cook with enough water to dissolve it 
well; a good proportion would be, to one pound of sugar, allow 
one pint of hot water; after the syrup has boiled for fifteen 
minutes pour over the plums and cover over till the next morn- 
ing; then strain the s^rup into the kettle and boil a while; then 
put the plums in and cook one-half an hour, rather brisk; skim 
them out into jars and strain the syrup again over them, after it 
has boiled ten minutes; after removing the fruit put in glass jars 
and seal. 



QUINCE PRESERVES. 

To make nice quince preserves, pare and core them; make a 
syrup, allowing one pound of sugar to one of fruit; boil and skim 
the syrup; put the quinces in, after quartering them, if very 
large, if not kalve them; let remain in the syrup, cooking slow 
until they are cooked through sufficiently;then remove and boil the 
syrup until it is thick enough, but do not boil too long or it will 
be dark; strain over the quinces in the jars and seal. They are 
fine, but must be kept in the dark, although all fruits arc better 
kept in a cool, dark place. 



RIPE CUCUMBER PRESERVES. 

Gather the cucumbers after they begin to ripen; cut in 
halves, lay in weak alum water; let remain in this for twenty- 
four hours, then wash and drain them. Put on in a kettle 
enough sugar to make a good syrup; cook for about 15 minutes, 
then put in the cucumbers, after scraping the seeds out; boil 
them slowly until they are clear; add, while boiling, some slices 
of lemon peel. When they are done so a fork will pierce them 
easily remove to jars, and strain the syrup over them and seal. 
They should not be used for two or three months after making, 
as age improves them. ' 



PRESER]'ES, JELLS, AND JAMS. 255 



WATERMELON PRESERVES. 



Cut the melon in square pieces, about one inch square; put 
in weak alum water; soak over night, then wash them in clear 
water and make a nice syrup and add one good sized piece of 
ginger and candied lemon peel; cook till very tender; remove to 
jars and strain them. Keep three months before using. 



BLACKBERRY PRESERVES 



Pick the berries when not too ripe; put in a colander and 
pour water over them; when drained put in a good syrup; put the 
berries in and cook briskly for one-half an hour; skim out in a 
jar and boil the syrup ten minutes longer and strain over the 
berries and seal. Always seal while hot. 



GREEN TOMATO PRESERVES. 



Use small tomatoes; put them in weak salt water over 
night; next morning make a good syrup and after it has boiled 
and been skimmed, add the tomatoes; cook till they can be 
easily pricked with a fork; then remove and put in jars; put a 
few slices of lemon in the syrup; boil till it begins to thicktn 
nicely, then pour over the tomatoes and seal. 



APPLE PRESERVES, NO. 2. 



4 pounds of apples, 
2 quarts of water, 

1 teaspoonful of ginger, 
4 pounds of white sugar, 

2 lemons. 

DiRKCTioNs: — Pare, core and quarter nice preserving apples; 
weigh them, also the sugar; then add water, sugar and ginger; 
boil and strain; put in the kettle again and boil five minutes and 
skim; add the apples; cook until they look clear and are easily 
pricked with a fork; then remove the apples with a skimmer and 
strain the syrup again and then boil until it is thick; the lemon 
is added before straining the last time; cover the apples with a 
tkick cloth when they are taken out so they will not turn dark. 



256 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



APPLE PRESERVES, NO 1. 

Pare and core nice sound apples; quarter them; put in cold 
water until put to cook; put three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
every pound of apples and one lemon to every gallon of pre- 
serves; boil the sugar with one quart of water to ^ pound of 
sugar; when it boils about ten minutes and is skimmed well, put 
the apples in and cook till they are tender, then remove and put 
in glass jars and boil the syrup with the juice of the lemon till it 
begins to thicken; then strain hot into jars; be sure you have 
plent}' of syrup over the preserves. Sweet apples are the nicest 
to preserve, although there are other kinds that will make very 
nice preserves. 



NEAPOLITAN JELLY. 



Take raspberry, lemon, grape and currant jelly; make in 
different pans; small pans can be used; after each is done, put in 
a teacup; when- almost cold, put first in a tall jelly glass the 
grape, then the lemon and currant, last the raspberry, as that is 
a little lighter in color than the grape. This makes a very 
pretty glass of jelly as well as nicely flavored. 



APPLE JELLY. 



Select juicy tart apples; pare and cut in small pieces and 
piit in a kettle and add one pint of water; cook till tender; re- 
move and strain through a thick jelly bag and put back to cook 
about the same time as other jells and add 3^ of a pound of 
sugar to each pint of juice; after adding the sugar, cook for two 
minutes and put in jell glasses; cover with writing paper dipped 
in the white of an egg. 



PRESERVES, JELLS, AND JAMS. 257 



CARDINAL JELLY. 



1 box of gelatine, 

2 cu))s of sugar, 

1 cup of cranberry juice, 
yi glass of sherry, 

2 lemons, 

I pint of hot water. 
Directions. — Cover gelatine with cold water; let soak one 
hour; add the hot water, and strain; add sugar, lemon juice, 
cranberry and sherry; set on ice till cold and serve with cream. 



GRAPE JELLY— GOOD. 



Take the grapes from the stem; put on in a kettle to cook, 
with only enough water to cover the bottom of the kettle; cook 
five minutes and strain through a thick jelly bag; have the sugar 
heating while the grapes are being prepared; put juice back on 
stove; boil and skim twenty minutes; add the sugar by degrees; 
cook one minute after it raises to a boil; pour in hot glasses and 
after they cool, put in a dark, cool place. Grapes used for jell 
should not be too ripe. 



JELLY WITHOUT BOILING. 



]/2 box of gelatine, 

y^ pint of cold water, 

2 cups of white sugar, 

2 lemons, 

y^ teaspoon of cinnamon extract. 
Directions: — Add water to the gelatine; let stand an hour 
or more, then add the sugar and juice of the lemons and cinna- 
mon and set on ice for a half day and it will be nice and firm; if 
any coloring is desired, use fruit coloring, but to serve with 
meats is nicer clear. 



258 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



GREEN GRAPE JELLY 

Choose grapes that are just beginning to ripen; cook with 
very little water; v/hen cooked sufficient, put in a jelly bag and 
press lightly; let drain awhile and put in the kettle again and 
boil hard for twenty minutes; then add for every cup of juice 
one cup of white sugar, after heating, but be careful not to let it 
brown, as that will spoil the flavor as well as the looks of the 
jell; cook briskly for three minutes longer then put in hot jelly 
glasses and seal. 



CURRANT JELLY. 



Put the fruit on in a kettle; let heat slowly till the fruit is 
soft; then strain through a jelly bag and measure the juice 
and allow to one pint of juice ^ of a pound of white sugar; 
put the juice on; boil hard and skim; when it has boiled fifteen 
minutes, add the sugar after heating it; cook five minutes longer 
and pour in glasses. 



GREEN GOOSE BERRY JELLY. 



Pick the stems from the berries; put to cook .with a very 
little water; cook till soft; let cool and press through a jelly 
bag; add one pint of white sugar to every pint of juice; a small 
piece of alum dissolved and added makes it some nicer; put on 
stove and cook slowly till it will jell on a cool plate; be careful to 
skim well when it begins to boil and do not stir only enough to 
dissolve the sugar, as this spoils any kind cf jelly; remove when 
done and pour in jelly glasses; have them dry and heated slight- 
ly; seal and keep in a dry place. 



PRESERVES, JELLS, AND JAMS. 259 



ORANGE JELLY. 



Yo. box of gelatine, 
y^, cup of cold water, 

1 cup of hot water, 

2 cups of loaf sugar, 
4 oranges, 

I lemon. 

Directions. — Soak the gelatine in the cold water; then pour 
over the hot water; squeeze the juice from the oranges and 
lemon; add the sugar and put in the gelatine; mix well and pour 
into wet molds, and set away to cool; when cold cut in squares 
and serve with whipped cream. 



GRAPE BUTTER. 



Choose very ripe grapes; pick from the stems; put to cook; 
when soft remove and cool, and press through a colanderto re- 
move the seeds; put in another kettle, about one-third of tart 
apples that you have grapes; cook till well done; press through 
a colander and mix the apples and grapes, and if desired, the 
skins of the grapes may be added, as they will cook up in the 
last heating; add three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one of 
pulp; cook slowly for three-quarters of an hour; put in jars and 
seal. They may have any kind of flavoring added that may be 
desired, but are quite nice without. 



QUINCE MARMALADE. 



Pare the quinces; slice thin, after coring them; put enough 
water over them to cook tender; mash and press through a sieve 
or colandar; put back on the stove, after weighing the fruit, and 
adding three-fourth of a pound of sugar to one of fruit; cook 
moderately fast for one-half an hour; put in jars and seal. 
Adding lemon or orange juice, adds some to the flavor, but if 
the quinces are nice, are very good with the flavor of the fruit 
only. 



260 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



RHUBARB MARMALADE. 



Take the rhubarb and cut in small pieces; put on in just 
enough water to cover the bottom of the kettle; cook till it will 
mash easily, then cool a little and press through a sieve; put 
back to cook, adding two cups of sugar to three cups of the pulp; 
cook till it begins to thicken, then put in glass jars and seal. 



PUMPKIN BUTTER. 



Take one large pumpkin, cook till well done, cool and press 
through a colander; put on to cook again, allowing one cup of 
sugar and one of molasses to every quart of the pumpkin; cook 
until it seems thoroughly done; flavor with ground cinnamon 
and spice. When made properly is very nice, and can be used 
for tarts, as well as served like any other kind of fruit butter. 



PEACH JAM. 



Allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar to a pound of 
peaches, after being peeled; cook till tender and will mash 
easily; add the sugar and cook for half an hour; after it begins 
to boil put in glass jars and seal. 



CURRANT JAM. 



Pick the currants over; free them from all leaves and stems; 
mash and press through a colander; then to every pound of 
fruit add three-fourths of a pound of white sugar; cook till it be- 
comes very thick; put in jars and seal. 



PICKLES. 261 



STRAWBERRY JAM 

Choose nice clean berries; pick the stem from them; put in 
a colander and pour water over them to free them of sand and 
dirt; proceed to mash them and add the same amount of sugar 
to them as in currant jam; cook slowly for about ^ of an 
hour, then put in jars and se&l; put brandied paper over them; 
dip writing paper in brandy. 



RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JAM. 

Pick the raspberries and currants; clean them and mash to- 
gether, then add the sugar, adding three-fouhts of a pound to 
a pound of fruit; cook for about three-quarters of an hour; re- 
move and put in jars and seal; this makes a beautiful jam. 

Raspberry jell may be made same as strawberry jell. 



APPLE MARMALADE. 



Take any kind of tart apples that cook easily; put on to cook 
in enough water to cover them; when cooked so they mash, re- 
move and press through a colander and put back in the kettle 
and cook with three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound 
of apples; cook one and one-half hours and then put in jars, but 
is not necessary to seal, but always put writing paper over any 
jar that is not sealed, wet with brandy; do not put just a little, 
but saturate it thoroughly. 



262 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 




Vinegar and Wines. 



RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

y^ gallon of berries, 
I cup of vinegar, 
lYz pints of sugar. 

Directions:— Pick and wash the berries; put them in an 
earthen jar; pour the vinegar over, then let stand three days; 
then strain and add the sugar and put in a kettle and boil twenty 
minutes, then bottle when cold; when going to use, use two 
tablespoons to a glass of water if used as a drink, and a table- 
spoon of sugar. 



TO MAKE VINEGAR FROM CORN. 

To one gallon of shelled corn, allow three gallons of water; 
soak the corn in just enough water to cover it, then boil in the 
other water till the corn begins to get tender; remove to a jar 
and put four gallons of boiling water over it and add one pint of 
molasses; let stand about two weeks and strain into a keg and 
soon it will be good vinegar. 



VINEGAR AND WINES. 263 



TO MAKE APPLE VINEGAR. 

• Cut the apples up and put in a jar; do not remove the peel; 
cover with water, cold water is the best to use; then add to one 
gallon jar of apples, one pint of brown sugar and one quart of 
cold tea; molasses can be used instead of the sugar, but does not 
make as nice flavored or as clear vinegar; tie a cloth over the jar 
and let it remain a week; then skim it and strain into a keg, and 
put one pint of good vinegar to every gallon of the juice; do not 
fasten it up for two weeks, but put a thick cloth over the keg. 



TO MAKE WINE FROM ANY KIND OF BERRIES. 



For blackberry or raspberry wine, to each quart of the 
berries allow a pint of boiling water; let it remain over night; 
then strain, and to each quart of juice allow one pint of white 
sugar; let it remain in the jar ten days; then skim and strain into 
bottles and seal; it will be ready for use in six months. It is 
well to stir the juice several times a day, as this hastens the pro- 
cess of fermenting. 



TO MAKE VINEGAR FROM HONEY. 



To one pint of strained honey, put four quarts of hot water 
into a jar, and when it ferments, strain into jugs and it will make 
a very nice clear vinegar, and is preferred by some to any other 
vinegar. ■ 



264 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



CURRANT WINE. 



This wine is made by stemming the currants, and allowing 
to every quart of the currants, three pints of water; mash before y 
adding the water;let stand two days; then pass through a colander 
or sieve, and allow to every quart of juice one pound of sugar; 
dissolve thoroughly and put in a jug; let it remain ten or twelve 
days; then strain again and bottle for use. When putting in the 
jug do not put the cork in, but cover over with a cloth. 



TO MAKE A GOOD WINE OF GRAPES, 



To ten pounds of ripe grapes add three quarts of hot water; 
pick them from the stem, being careful not to have any that are 
not sound; put them in a stone jar, and after the water has 
cooled enough to handle with the hands, press them and remove 
the pulp and seeds; in this way let remain for four days; then 
strain and add five pounds of sugar, white sugar must be used; 
let it stand about six days; remove the scum; then strain again 
and bottle for use; it will be good in a month or so. Keep 
covered with a cloth while fermenting. This wine; when made 
properly, is fine. 



PICKLES. 265 



Pickles.-, 



PEPPER MANGOES. 



Use only the largest green peppers; make an incision in the 
side and remove the seed; put in salt water and let remain for 
twenty-four hours, have the water very strong with salt; chop nice 
white cabbage and season with white mustard seed, celery seed 
and salt, and put in a jar and cover with vinegar. Never use 
anything but the best of cider vinegar for pickles; put a small 
piece of alum in the vinegar in which the pickles are put, and 
cover over the top with green grape leaves, as this has a tendency 
to make them green; do not let the vinegar boil; they will be 
ready for use in a month or two. 



SWEET GREEN CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Choose cucumbers about two inches long; put them in weak 
salt water; let stand twenty-four hours; then put on in a granite 
kettle; for one gallon pickles add one-half gallon sugar, one 
pint of the best apple vinegar, and one quart of water; let it boil 
ten minutes, after taking the pickles from the salt water; pour 
this boiling hot over the cucumbers; let stand twenty-four hours; 
heat again and pour over; then let • stand the same time 
again, and when it is put on again, put in one tablespoon of 
cloves, one of spice and several sticks of cinnamon; let it boil; 
then pour on the cucumbers; put them in the jars and boil the 
syrup till thick; then pour over the pickles and let stand for 
three weeks before using. These are better if a half cup of 
whisky is added to they syrup when boiling the last time. 



26G THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



SWEET APPLE PICKLES. 

Pare and core rather small apples; remove the core; if you 
have nothing to core fruit with, go to a tinner and get them to 
make one, by taking a small piece of tin, and make round, with 
an opening in the center, as large as desired, have it at least 
four inches long, as it will be needed some times for large fruit. 
After coring put in water till done paring and coring them; 
then make a syrup of three-fourths of a pound of sugar to one 
pound of the apples, allowing one quart of vinegar to one gallon 
of the syrup, one quart of the water to one-half pound of sugar; 
cook the syrup one- half an hour; then pour over the apples in a 
stone jar; repeat this three mornings; the fourth morning add the 
spices to the syrup and cook with the apples until they are ten- 
der; then skim them out into jars and boil the syrup for half an 
hour and pour over them and seal. Apples that do not cook up 
should be used for pickles. 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 



Take medium sized tomatoes, be careful to have them en- 
tirely green, if they have begun to ripen it toughens them; slice 
and cover with salt and let stand two days; drain and put hot 
vinegar over them; let stand five days; then pour this off and 
heat fresh vinegar, and spices to taste; pour over the pickles and 
they will be ready for use in a week or two. 



PICKLES. * 26'/ 



OLIVES. 



Olives should be put on in a deep glass dish with cracked 
ice around them, as this makes them much nicer than without. 
Olives should remain on the table throughout the meal; they are 
often used to garnish with, same as pickles. 



STRING BEAN PICKLES. 



Choose well grown beans; but not those that have tough 
hulls; make a strong brine; let stand one week; take out and 
scald enough vinegar to cover them; add spices and pepper; they 
will be ready for use in two or three days after being put in the 
vinegar. 



PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 



Pick off the leaves and cut the stalk in quarters; scald in 
salt water, but do not boil; take the cauliflower from the dish to 
cool; sprinkle v/ith a little salt and water; put in a colander to 
drain; when well drained, then cut in small pieces and put on to 
boil in water salted slightly; when it comes to a boil skim out and 
put in jars; cover with vinegar which has been boiled with 
spices; seal up and it is ready for use in a few weeks. 



• 
2G8 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO PitKLE PEACHES. 



3 pounds of sugar, 
6 pounds of peaches, 

1 tablespoon of cloves, 

2 tablespoons of spice, 

2 good sized sticks of cinnamon, 
I quart of vinegar. 
Directions:- — Wash nice plum peaches; put in cold water 
and prepare the vinegar by putting in a porcelain kettle and 
adding sugar and spices; boil and skim; put peaches in a jar and 
pour vinegar over while hot; let stand twenty-four hours; then 
pour off and heat again and pour over; then repeat five times; 
then boil till quite a thick syrup; pour over and seal. If pre- 
ferred the peaches may be peeled. 



SPICED TOMATO PICKLES. 

4 onions, 

I teaspoon of mace, 

I tablespoon of horse radish, 

1 tablespoon of cloves, 

2 quarts of tomatoes, 

3 green peppers, 

Yn gallon of vinegar, 

y2, cup of salt. 
Directions. — Chop tomatoes and pepper fine; mix them to- 
gether; put in a stone jar and sprinkle with the salt; let stand 
twenty-four hours; then drain through a colander; put the vine- 
gar on to scald; add the spices and onions; when it comes to a boil 
pour over the pickles; pack in jars while hot and cover closely. 



PICKLES. 209 



ONION PICKLES. 

Take onions (white,) of uniform size and remove the out- 
side peel; make a good brine; let it come to a boil, and pour 
over them; let remam in the brine two or three days; pour this 
off, and make a new brine; let them stand same length of time 
as before; take enough vinegar to cover the amount of onions 
you have, and two ounces of tumeric — this can be procured at 
any drug store; scald the vinegar, with this in it, and pour over 
the onions while very hot; let stand several days; then pour off 
and put hot vinegar, seasoned with celery seeds, white mustard 
seed, horse radish and mixed spices over them. 



GREEN CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Take four good sized cucumbers; pare them deep; grate 
on a grater, but as they are a little difficult to grate, may be put 
in a chopping bowl and chopped sufficiently; after preparing 
them, put in a bag and squeeze slightly, and measure the cucum- 
bers, and to every pint add one-fourth of a cup of grated horse 
radish, and some chopped onion may be added if preferred; 
season with salt and pepper; a few green peppers is an addition; 
after mixing well, add about one quart of good cider vinegar, 
mix and seal; it will be ready for use in a week or two. 



270 THE CAPITAL COOK' BOOK. 



RIPE TOMATO CATSUP. 

One- half a peck of nice, ripe tomatoes; wash and slice them 
and add two good sized onions, chopped, and one large green 
pepper; cook all together till quite soft; then press through a 
sieve; wash the -kettle and put them back to cook, and cook two 
hours, and add one cup of vinegar, one cup of sugar, one table- 
spoon of salt, two tablespoons of white mustard seed, one tea- 
spoon of celery seed, one teaspoon each of cloves and spice, 
whole, two large sticks of cinnamon; tie these in a cloth, except 
the mustard and celery seed; cook one hour longer and bottle 
and seal. 



SWEET PLUM PICKLES. 



Use one peck of firm plums, not too ripe; scald them and 
skim out and have some jars ready; put in the jars; then heat 
one-half gallon vinegar, three pints of sugar, two tablespoons each 
of spice and cloves and two or three sticks of cinnamon; put the 
vinegar, spices and sugar on to cook, adding one quart of hot 
water; after boiling one hour pour over the plums and heat three 
mornings in succession; the last time put on, when it comes to 
a boil, put in the plums and let remain fifteen minutes; skim out 
into the cans and when the syrup is thick pour over and seal. 



PICKLES. 271 

A NICE WAY TO PUT UP TOMATOES IN COLD VINEGAR. 

Choose the plum tomatoes; select none but sound ones; put 
them in cans and pour over cold cider vinegar, but the vinegar 
must not be strong enough to eat the tomatoes; this can be as- 
certained by putting a little in a can and dropping some toma- 
toes into it a few days before canning and if is strong enough to 
eat the tomato, dilute with water; they must be sealed. 



GRAPE CATSUP. 



Put the grapes on to cook; cook till tender; then pass 
through a sieve and season with spices to suit the taste; cook 
twenty minutes, then add the vinegar; add about one quart to 
one-half gallon of the grape pulp and three cups of sugar; cook 
fifteen minutes longer and seal while hot. Nice to serve with 
boiled ham. 



PLUM CATSUP. 



Wash and put the plums on to cook in a? little water as 
possible; when done, remove and when cool mash and press 
through a colander and add spice, cloves and cinnamon until it 
is flavored to suit taste, but a good porportion is, to one gallon 
of pluns, add one tablespoon of cloves and two of each cinnamon 
and spice and one quart of good cider vinegar; mix well and 
bottle for use. This makes as large a quantity as would be 
needed for a small family. Is better after adding all of the in- 
gredients to cook twenty minutes, as it will keep better. 



272 riTE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



SWEET PICKLED CHERRIES. 



Choose ripe cherries, not too ripe, so they will stay on stem; 
lay on a platter; make a thick syrup of white sugar, then add 
one third as much vinegar as you have of the syrup; let come to 
the boiling point; have the cherries in a crock; pour this boiling 
hot over them; next morning pour off and heat again; repeat 
four mornings, the fourth morning let it come to a boil, then 
add the cherries; let them cook five minutes; remove to the jar 
and boil the syrup till done, till it is moderately thick, putting 
cloves, cinnamon and spice, the whole tied up in a cloth till the 
strength is extracted enough, then pour over the cherries and 
seal. 



TOILET RECIPES. 373 



<^w.ToiLET Recipes. 



'00<C>- 



A GOOD REMEDY FOR FRECKLES. 

Two ounces of alum, three ounces of lemon juice, one pint 
of rose water; apply with a sponge at night. 



TO REMOVE MOTH PATCHES. 



Fifteen grains of chlorate of potash; put in four ounces of 
rose water and let it remain a few days. Is excellent to remove 
moth patches from the face; apply several times during the day 
with a sponge or old linen rag. 



A GOOD WASH FOR THE HAIR. 

One quart of tea made from the hulls of the common wal- 
nut; they should be used while partially green. After strain- 
ing into a bottle; add to this three ounces of copperas; let stand 
several days before using, then apply with a brush; shake the 
bottle before using; this will never fail to color the hair and is 
perfectly harmless and can be prepared at home. 



A GOOD LIQUID TO CLEAN SILVER. 

Take equal parts of prepared chalk, aqua ammonia and alco- 
hol; mix these well together; put in a bottle; when using, apply 
with a sponge and polish with a chamois skin. This will clean 
silver thoroughly and if properly used, a fine polish can be made 
equal to new silver. 



274 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



A TONIC FOR THE HAIR. 

Is made by steeping a handful of sage in one quart of soft 
water; after steeping for half an hour, add one tablespoon of 
common table salt; strain into a bottle and apply to the hair, 
once a week, rubbing in the scalp well. It not only causes the 
hair to grow, but darkens it with a few applications, also pre- 
vents it from falling out. 



HOW TO CLEAN GOLD. 

Use pulverized chalk, castile soap and warm soft water; 
shave the soap and add the chalk, dissolved thoroughly; then 
with a soft brush proceed to wash the gold articles; rub well and 
they will look like new. 



TO REMOVE SPOTS, PIMPLES, ETC. 

A piece of green benzoin about the size of a pea, one small 
glass of spirits of wine; boil these together for half an hour. To 
use,- put ten drops in a glass of soft water; wash the face and 
hands in this twice a day. When poured in water it looks like 
milk and has a sweet perfume. 



FOR THE COMPLEXION. 

^ pint of oatmeal, 
I pint of buttermilk, 
I lemon. 

Directions. — Steep the oatmeal and milk together and let 
it cool before adding the lemon juice; apply at night before re- 
tiring. This will be found excellent for removing tan and soft- 
enins? the skin. 



TOILET RECIPES. 275 



A SURE REMEDY TO REMOVE WARTS. 

Use pure carbolic acid; apply with a brush three times a day, 
being careful not to touch any other part of the hand, as it would 
be like a burn. This will cure a wart in a few days. 



A REMEDY TO PREVENT REDNESS OF THE NOSE AND FACE. 

Equal parts of refined chalk, rain-water and glycerine, 
made into a paste — apply and remove in the morning with a soft 
cloth and warm water. 



TO REMOVE DANDRUFF. 

Take equal parts of Bay Rum and Brandy and brush 
the hair every day — wash the head thoroughly once a week with 
soft water and yolk of an egg; this followed for at least one 
month will effectually cure dandruff, and is certainly a very sim- 
ple remedy and one that is in reach of all. 



TO CLEAN THE TEETH. 

The following will be found excellent. A small piece of 
orris root chewed after rinsing the mouth after meals cleanses 
the teeth perfectly, removes any discoloration from eating fruits. 
Burned bread is good to clean the teeth; burn it till it is well 
charred. The use of a poor brush ruins the gums and makes 
them look ragged. 



276 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



ANOTHER REMEDY TO WHITEN THE COMPLEXION 

Is a paste made as follows: Take two tablespoons of com- 
mon tar and one tablespoon of olive oil; melt this together un- 
til well mixed; spread on an old linen cloth and apply to the face 
on retiring; care has to be taken to prevent the bed clothing from 
getting soiled; in the morning remove the cloth and wash the 
face with castile soap; the face will be soft and white. 



TO PREVENT SUNSTROKE. 

A wet handkerchief or brown paper well saturated with 
water worn in the top of the hat will prevent sunstroke, no mat- 
ter how much one is exposed to the sun, as it has no effect if pro- 
tected in this way. 



TO MAKE A GOOD COLOGNE WATER. 

One-half a pint of alcohol, thirty drops of bergamont, thirty 
drops of essence of lemon, thirty drops of orange water; mix to- 
gether and bottl. Will be ready for use in six weeks. 



TO MAKE GOOD QUALITY OF COLOGNE. 

One pint of rectified spirit, one fluid drachm each of oil 
of bergamont and lemon; one-half drachm of oil of orange; one 
quarter of a drachm of neroli; two drops of the essence of amber- 
gris and musk; mix all well together and bottle and let it ripen 
for several months before using; is better not to use it under 
three months. This, if made right is excellent. 



TOIL E T RE CI PES. 277 



TO MAKE A GOOD COLD CREAM. 



3 ounces of oil of almonds, 

I ounce of spermaceti, 

I drachm of the best white wax, 

3 ounces of rose water, 

Yn ounce of white rose perfume. 
Directions: — Melt the wax and mix with the oil; add the 
rose water and perfume; stir till it is cold and creamy and it is 
ready for use. Is nice to use on the face or hands to soften the 
skin. Is also good to remove tan. 



TO MAKE LAVENDER POWDER. 



One half a pound of powdered lavender, one-eighth of a 
pound of gum of benzonia, the same of otto of lavender; mix 
well together and it is ready for use. 



TO MAKE HELIOTROPE POWDER. 



One-fourth of a pound of orris root, one-eighth of a pound 
of powdered rose leaves, one ounce of powdered tonquin bean, 
one-half an ounce of vanilla bean, one-half a drachm of musk in 
the grain, two drops of otto of almonds. Mix thoroughly to- 
gether and this is one of the best satchet powders made and the 
cost will not be much. Is nice to put in the linens. 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



FOR PRESPIRATION OF THE HANDS. 

A remedy for anyone who is bothered with their hands pre- 
spiring: The white of one egg, beaten stiff; then add one ounce 
of powdered alum and one cup of wheat bran; mix vvel). After 
washing the hands and drying them, apply some of the paste; let 
it remain for awhile and rub off with a soft cloth. This will 
soften the hands and check the prespiration, which sometimes is 
very annoying. 



TO CURE A MUDDY COMPLEXION 

Extract the juice from one lemon; put in a glass of soft 
water ten drops of attar of roses; use every time the face is 
washed; put on freely and let remain. This will be found an 
excellent remedy for a muddy complexion, of which, unfortun- 
ately, so many American ladies are possessed. 




MISCELLA.YEOUS FOR THE HOUSE. 279 



Miscellaneous for the House. 



-^^::>0^::i>- 



TO KEEP APPLES. 



Apples may be kept till the last of June by being careful to 
select the sound ones; wipe them perfectly dry and pack 
them in boxes or barrels, v/hichever is the most convenient, with 
layers of bran, then of apples, then cover the barrel or box over 
with a cloth to keep the moisture absorbed, as the cloth ab- 
sorbs the moisture, and that is what causes the fruit to decay. 



WOODEN PAILS 

May be rendered more servicable by giving them a good 
coat of varnish before using and letting it dry several days be- 
fore putting water in it. A bucket treated in this way lasts much 
longer than without. 



TO REMOVE INK STAINS. 

They can be removed with sweet milk from carpets, after 
rinsing with clean soft water. If on goods dip in melted tallow 
and wash the goods with very hot water, dipping in and out 
of the water, as it ought to be so hot that the grease may be 
removed with the stain. Salt is also said to remove ink stains. 
Put on immediate!}' the ink is spilled, but on any delicate 
frabric, care mnst be takim or the ink will spread rapidly. 



280 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO SWEETEN LARD. 

To sweeten lard after it has become strong, tie a small 
bunch of slippery elm bark; melt the lard and add the bark; boil 
an hour or more; then remove the bark, and your lard will seem 
almost as fresh as when first rendered. 



TO OIL A FLOOR. 

Used boiled linseed oil; before using, heat it again, 
and after heating, and it has been removed from the stove, if a 
light oak color is desired, put in some yellow ochre; mix it well. 
It will cause the oil to boil over if put in while on the stove, and 
would be very dangerous. If a dark floor is desired, use burnt 
umber, as this makes a very pretty stain. It will be necessary, 
if the floor is rough, to give it a second coating, otherwise one 
application will be sufficient. 



HOW TO CLEAN MICA. 

This often becomes very smoky from use, an"d presents an 
ugly appearance, but it can be cleaned very easily, by washing 
in strong vinegar, and in most stoves is easily removed and in 
this way is more conveniently cleaned. 



HOW TO CLEAN A SPONGE. 

Take a lemon; roll it till soft; then cut off a small piece from 
one end; squeeze the juice into the sponge; wash it in this till 
the sponge is well saturated; then rinse in several waters. The 
juice is so acid that it cuts the dirt better than soap. It will 
cleanse it thoroughly. ' 



MISCELLANEOUS FOR TILE HOUSE. 281 



ALUM WATER FOR COCK ROACHES. 

Cock roaches will not inhabit any place where alum water 
has been used, as alum is very offensive to them. Dissolve 
some alum in water and wash the wood work around the kitchen 
and shelves in the pantry and safe once a week and no roaches 
will make their appearance. 



TO WASH CHINA. 



In washing china, never pour boiling water over it, as it will 
make it soon crack and have an old appearance, and can be 
cleaned as well in moderately warm water and dried thoroughly. 



COAL ASHES 

Make good walks for the back yard or can be used in the 
garden, as one advantage is, no weeds will grow up through 
them. 



TO MAKE CARPETS BRIGHT. 

Keep tea leaves for this purpose; sprinkle the carpet before 
sweeping, sweep off lightly at first, then go over the floor witli 
a dry cloth to remove all dust; if there are grease spots on car- 
pet, put a thick brown paper over it and set a very warm iron 
on it and let remain several minutes. Remove, and the paper 
will have absorbed all, or the most of the grease. 



282 TFIE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO CLEAN LAMPS. 

First, lamps should have the -oil emptied from them fre- 
quently and thoroughly cleaned, as by letting lamps collect too 
much dust, sometimes causes an explosion. Also clean the 
burners, by putting them in strong soda water. An old tin can 
can be utilized to soak them in. Soapsuds will answer instead of 
soda. They will come out quite new and make an entirely 
different light. It well pays for the trouble. 



TO CLEAN SILVER. 

Saturate a woolen cloth with coal oil and dip into whiten- 
ing; then rub your silver and it will look like new. No matter 
how long it has been used, provided it is not worn off any. 



TO KEEP AN OILED FLOOR LOOKING NEW. 

To keep an oiled floor looking like new, wipe it up with 
water, not too hot, diluted with sour milk, as this keeps the 
lustre on the floor a long time, if it is too much trouble to use 
beeswax, which is better than anything else. 



TO REMOVE MACHINE GREASE. 

To remove machine grease from goods, either fresh lard, 
well rubbed in, or soda dissolved in soft water, will remove 
machine grease. 



TO REMOVE FLY SPECKS 

To remove fly specks from any article of furniture, wet with 
a soft brush dipped in any good wine and apply. Will always 
remove them without injuring the furniture. 



MISCELLANEOUS FOR TLIE HOUSE. 283 



TO REMOVE GREASE FROM MARBLE. 

Take powdered chalk and put a thick coat over the grease 
spot; take a hot lid from the stove and hold over it for a few 
minutes, when you can see that the chalk has absorbed the 
grease, and it can be easily brushed off. 



TO REMOVE SOOT FROM CARPETS. 

Sprinkle with salt before sweeping, and when the carpet is 
swept no trace of the soot can be be found. 



TO PREVENT STEEL FROM RUSTING. 

By dusting steel with unslacked lime, after it has been 
cleaned, will prevent it from rusting and is very easily applied. 



TO KEEP CELLARS FROM SMELLING MUSTY. 

Take copperas and dissolve it in hot water, and go over the 
walls, as you would in giving it a coat of white wash. This is a 
good disinfectant, as well as good to keep away rats and mice. 



COLD STARCH. 

It is greatly improved by mixing the starch with soap suds. 
Do not have the suds too strong, and rub your irons with sand- 
paper, before commencing to iron, and there will be no starch 
sticking to the irons and a nice gloss will be the result if the 
directions are followed in mixing the starch and preparing the 
iron. Always use hot water in mixing cold starch, but do not 
have it scalding. 



28-1 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO PERFUME NOTE PAPER. 

Take an ordinary sized blotter; saturate it with any kind of 
good perfume; put in the box with the note paper and keep the 
box closed and you will be surprised at how nicely your paper is 
perfumed, and it will retain a perfume for a long time. 



TO POLISH STOVES. 

In polishing stoves, soap suds mixed with stove polish 
makes a a better lustre and they are more easily polished. 



TO RENEW OLD CHANDELIERS. 

Apply copal varnish, in which some bronze powder has been 
added; mix well and apply with a brush and it will help it won- 
derfully. 



A POLISH FOR BRASS OR COPPER KETTLES. 

To polish a brass or copper kettle take lemon and salt; cut 
the lemon in two pieces; dip in the salt and rub the kettle well. 
It v/ill make them very bright, and is easily applied. 



TO REMOVE BLOOD STAINS 

Dip in kerosene and let remain awhile; then wash the stains 
out with cold water. It will never fail to remove them. 



MISCELLAA'EOUS FOK THE HOUSE. 285 



TO MAKE BLACK CASSIMERE LOOK LIKE NEW. 



Take one-fourth cup of ammonia to one quart of soft water; 
sponge the pieces well with a clean sponge; roll up tight in a 
clean cloth and iron immediately on a flannel cloth; be sure to 
iron on the wrong side of the cloth; have the iron rather hot and 
iron until perfectly dry; afterwards brush well if any lint adheres 
to the cloth and you will think yourself ^oubly repaid for your 
work, as the goods can scarcely be told from new goods. 



A GOOD DISINFECTANT FOR CELLARS. 



Use chloride of lime in old dishes; set around in the cel- 
lar; also sprinkle the floor with a strong solution of copperas once 
a month and your cellar will be kept free from any bad odor. 



TO DRIVE MOSQUITOES 



From the room, burn powered pyrethum on a shovel or put 
some coals in a pan and sprinkle the powder over it and the in- 
sects will vacate the place in a very short time. 



386 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO FILTER WATER 

Take a large earthen jar; soak in water several days; then 
put a sponge in the hole at the bottom, which must be made as 
large as the bottom of a teacup; fill this with sand about half way 
up, and the other half fill in with coarse gravel; let the water 
pass through this and it v/ill be well filtered. The sponge must 
be removed every few days and cleaned, but the sand and gravel 
will last several days without being renewed. 



TO KEEP A ROOM MOTST. 

A large sponge thoroughly saturated with cold water and 
suspended by a string and hung in a room, will aid materially in 
keeping the air in the room cool and moist. Can be hung be- 
hind something if desired, and will serve the same purpose. 



TO KEEP AWAY FLIES. 

Leaves from a walnut tree kept in the kitchen will keep 
away flies. It is necessary to renew them every two or three 
days. 



TO SET COLOR. 

To set a color when coloring, use oxgall, dissolved in soft 
water, using two tablespoons to every pint of water. Sweet 
milk is also good to set the color in black goods, or in any dark 
color, by immersing the goo'ds in the milk when removed from 
th° dye, and covering it closely for at least two hours, then 
rinsing in several waters to remove all the milk. Goods treated 
in this way will never rub off in making or wearing. 



MISCELLANEOUS FOR THE HOUSE. 287 



TO REMOVE GREASE FROM A FLOOR. 

To remove grease from a floor, make a paste of clay and put 
on the grease spot; leave on over night; then wash off with hot 
water; after first brushing the clay off; use white sand to wash 
with, in the place of soap, and in most cases you will not see 
any grease, but if it is not removed entirely, make another ap- 
plication. 



TO BLEACH MUSLIN. 

Take one tablespoon of oxalic acid to one gallon of water; 
put the muslin in a tub and pour this over it; let remain until 
the water is cold; then put out on the grass. This will soon 
bleach the muslin till it will be as white as bleached muslin. 
The acid is cheap and can be procured from any druggist. 



TO CLEAN WHITE ZEPHYR. 

Take equal parts of flour and magnesia; rub as if washing in 
water. If the article is very much soiled it may be necessary to 
change for fresh flour and magnesia, but if properly used, will 
cleanse the article perfectly, and it will look as nice as when 
new. 



TO REMOVE MILDEW. 

Mix soap and .chalk together; rub in well; keep in the hot 
sun; keep moist and the mildew will disappear. 



288 rilE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO PREVENT MOTH IN CARPETS. 

Take a piece of paper and cover it with pitch; let it dry and 
place under the edges of the carpet and it will render the carpet 
moth proof. The odor maybe unpleasant for awhile but not 
more so than having the carpets eaten up by moth. 



TO KEEP MILK PAILS AND PANS FRESH AND SWEET. 

After washing them, rinse well with charcoal powder dis- 
solved in water. Kept in a glass jar is more convenient and al- 
ways ready for use. 



TO TIGHTEN CANE SEATED CHAIRS. 

Turn the chair over and wash thoroughly with warm soap 
suds and it will, when dry, be as tight and firm as when new if 
the cane has not been broken. 



TO REMOVE OLD PAINT. 



Give it a washing with a swab of a solution of oxalic acid. 
Weak tea is good to wash paint that has been varnished as it 
will look like new if properly washed. 



A DRESSING FOR KID SHOES. 



Oil and ink mixed together makes a good dressing for kid 
shoes. Makes them black and keeps them soft. 



MISCELLANEOUS FOR THE HOUSE. 289 



A GOOD CEMENT FOR GLASS. 

Is made by taking equal parts of sweet milk and vinegar, 
boiling them together and separating the curd that will form, 
or strain it, and beat the whites of several eggs, say to one pint 
of whey, the whites of four eggs, beaten stiff; mix together and 
add enough lime, powdered well, to make a paste. Is excellent 
for mending broken glass; this can be put in hot water and it 
does not affect it in the least. 



CEMENT FOR JARS OR BOTTLES. 

Use one tablespoon of beeswax to three tablespoons of 
resin; melt together till well mixed. Glass jars that have a 
piece broken out of them can be mended easily in this way. 



WASHING FLUID. 

I pound of sal soda, 
Y-z pound of lime, 
6 quarts of water. 

Directions: — Put this together on the stove in an iron ket- 
tle; boil ten minutes, then remove and strain into jars. One- 
half a cup of this added to a boiler of water v/ill soften it nicely, 
and the clothes will wash much more easily. 



290 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TO REMOVE IRON RUST 

From white floods, equal parts of salt and lemon juice 
is good; expose to the sun awhile, or till it is dry. Sometimes 
it requires several applications. 



TO REMOVE SCORCH FROM LINEN. 

Exposeure to the sun while it is very hot will nearly always 
remove it, unless scorched too deep. 



TO RENOVATE BLACK SILK. 



Sponge with coffee and iron with a hot iron before it is 
quite dry, being careful to iron on wrong side, but sponge it on 
the right side. 



TO CLEAN KETTLES. 

Potato peelings put in new kettles and boiled for some time 
with plenty of water, will clean them perfectly clean. They 
are also good to clean porcelain, if it has turned brown from use. 



TO KEEP CIDER SWEET. 

To keep cider sweet for quite awhile: A piece of charcoal 
dropped in the barrel, or some white mustard seed. It will 
take a pint and a half to a barrel of cider. 



WHEN MAKING SOAP 

It is much nicer to remove from the iron kettle, as it is more 
clear than to cool in the iron, especially if it is to be cut in bars. 
Oil of sassafras put in soap when it is almost ready to remove 
from the fire, gives it a very nice nerfume. 



MISCELLANEOUS EOA' THE HOUSE. 291 



TO POLISH TINWARE. 

Use soda dampenod slightly for polishing tinwa-e, as it will 
if properly used and rubbed with either a woolen cloth or 
a chamois skin be almost like new. 



A GOOD FURNITURE POLISH. 

One that every one can prepare at home: Take one pint of 
good turpentine and two pints of linseed oil; mix well together 
and apply with an old woolen cloth and the furniture will not 
only have a new appearance, but it will restore the color if it has 
turned white in spots where anything hot has been set on it, or 
from getting damp. 



TO CLEAN SOAP SUDS. 

This can be done by taking some alum and dissolving it in 
hot water and putting in the suds; it will curdle and all the 
dirt will settle at the bottom and the water can be poured off and 
it will be as clear as before using and will do double the amount 
washing. This is very valuable to any one who is scarce of 
good washing; water. 



CISTERNS 

In which the water has an unpleasant odor or taste may be 
purified by throwing a pound of charcoal into it; in a few days 
the disagreeable odor will leave. Charcoal is good to keep in 
refrigerators also. 



292 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



Menus. 



MENU FOR BREAKFAST, NO. 1. 



1st Course — Oranges and Grapes. 

2nd Course— Broiled Fish, Saratoga Potatoes. 

Coffee and Tea. 
3rd Course — Mutton Chops, with Tomato Sauce. 
4th Course -Omelet, garnished with Parsley. 
5th Course — Cream Toast and Muffins. 
6th Course — Graham Pancakes and Syrup. 



MENU FOR BREAKFAST, NO. 2 

Oranges. Tea. Coffee. 

Cream Potatoes. Mutton Chops. 

Cheese Toast. Rice Pancakes. 

Maple Syrup. 



MENU FOR BREAKFAST, NO. 3. 

Beet Steak. Fried Potatoes. 

Light Rolls. Cream Toast. 



MENU FOR BREAKFAST, NO. 4. 

Corn Meal Cakes. 

Stewed Mackerel, with Fish Sauce. 

Baked Potatoes. Poached Eggs. 

Maple Syrup. 
Chocolnte. Coffee. 



MENU FOR AFTERNOON RECEP- 
TIONS- 

Boiled Tongue. 

Pressed Chicken. Oyster Salad. 

Potato Croquettes. Chocolate Cream. 

Whipped Cream. 

Fancy Cakes. 

I'ruit. Coffee. Cocoa. 

l.emoiiadf. 



MENUS. 293 



ITTenu for Cl]anksgic»tng Dinner. | 

Roast Turkey, with Oyster Sauce. 5S 

58? 
Cranberry Sauce. 5^ 

5^ 
Mashed Turnips. ^ 

Squash. ^ 

5^ 

Boiled Onions. Potatoes, ^ 

Dressed Celery. ^ 

Chicken Pie, with Jelly. iSC 

58? 
Mince Pie. ' Apple Pie. 5^ 

Cranberry Tarts. 1^ 

P, 

Lemon Squash Pie. ^ 

'^ 

Nuts. Fruits. Raisins. 58? 

Candy. Coffee. 58; 

Cider. ^ 



ITtcnu for d^attUsgtDing Bitincr, Xio. 2. ^ 



Raw Oysters. Clear Soup. 

Roast Turkey, with Cranberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Sweet Potatoes. Parsnips. Turnips. 

Pickles. Celery. 

Peas. Croquettes. 

Lettuce, with Mayonnaise. 
Mince Pie. Pumpkin Pie. 

Coffee. Cocoa. 

Fruit Cake. 



394 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



MENU FOR DINNER, NO. 1. 



Soup. 

Oyster Stew. Olives. Sliced Lemons. 

Celery Branches. Pickles. 

Fish. 

Baked White Fish, with Chili Sauce. 

Boiled Ham, with Horse Radish Sauce. 

Roasts. 

Beef Roast, with Potato Chips. 

Baked Turkey, with Cranberry Sauce. 

Roast Duck. Apple Sauce. 

Pigs' feet with Green Peas. 

Kntrees, 

Corn Muffins. Chicken Salad. 

Oyster Patties. Gibblets in cream. 

Boston Baked Beans. 

Vepe tables. 

Lima Beans. Green Beans. 

Sweet Corn. Fried Cabbage. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. Mashed Irish Potatoes. 

Relishes. 

Grape Jelly. Sweet Peach Pickles. 

Saratoga Chips. French Capers. 

Salted Almonds. Mixed Pickles. 

Dessert. 

Mince Pie. Lemon Pie. Chess Pie. 

Steamed Plum Pudding, with Brandy Sauce. 

Ice Cream Cake. Angle Cake. 

Chocolate Cake. Fruit Cake. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. 

Oranges. Grapes. Bananas. 

Coffee. Tea. Milk. Ice Tea. 



MENU FOR DINNER, NO. 2. 



Potato Soup. 

Bread. 

Boiled Fish, Oyster Soup. 

Escalloped Potatoes. 

Roast Chicken. Brown Gravy. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Green Beans. 

Lettuce. Salad. Olives. Cheese. 

Ice Cream. 

Cake. Coffee. 



MENUS. 295 



MENU FOR DINNER, NO. 3. 



Sliced Tomatoes. 

Roast Beef. Celery. 

Mashed Irish Potatoes, Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Cabbage, fried. Olives. 

Chicken Salad. 

Graham Bread. 

Bread Pudding, with Sauce. 

Whipped Cream, with small Cakes. 

Coffee and Cocoa. 



MENU FOR DINNER, NO. 4. 



Clear Soup. Celery. 

Baked Fish. Lettuce Salad. 

Roast Mutton. Fried Chicken. 

Degetal^Ics. 

Asparagus. Peas. Potatoes. Squash. 

Dessert. 

Plum Pudding. Sliced Apple Pie. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Coffee and Cheese. 



MENU FOR A CHRISTMAS DINNER. 



Soup. Celery. 

Roast Turkey. 

Potato Croquettes. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Birds on Toast. 

Corn. Peas. Pickles. Plum Jelly. 

Plum Pudding. 

Mince Pie. Cream Pie. 

Cheese. Fruits. Nuts. 

Coffee. Fruit Cake. 



296 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



MENU FOR LUNCHEON, NO. 1. 



Orange Sherbet. 

Baked Chicken. White House Rolls. 

Salted Almonds. Olives. 

Boiled Beef. Green Peas. Biscuit. 

Lobster Salad. Wafers. Cheese. 

Strawberry Short Cake, with Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. 

Grapes on stem. Angel Food. 

Ice Cream. 

Cocoa. Tea. 



MENU FOR LUNCHEON, NO. 2. 



Chicken Croquettes. 

Potatoes, Baked. 

Boiled Ham, Oyster Salad. Rolls. 

Fruit. Small Cakes. 

Tea and Cocoa. 



MENU FOR LUNCHEON, NO. 3. 



Raw Oysters. 
Bouillon, served in cups. 
Lamb Chops. Tomato Sauce. 
Chicken Croquettes. Green Peas. 

Quail on Toast. 
Potato Salad. 
Wafers. Cheese. 

Ice Cream. 
Cake. Fruit. Coffee. 



REMARKS ON GARNISHING. 297 



Remarks On Garnishing. 



Any kind of salads are nice garnished with either of the 
following: 

EGG RINGS. 
These are made by cutting the whites of hard boiled eggs 
round ways; put around the salad and on top. 

LEMONS. 

Slice the lemons very thin after removing the outside rind 
and seeds; place around cold meats, either pork, beef, canned 
salmon or chicken. 

CELERY HEARTS AND LEAVES. 

These are used to garnish with, and are very nice for all 
kinds of meat. 

OLIVES AND PICKLES. 

Sliced thin these are also used for salads and meats. Any 
kind of tart jelly can be molded in very small glasses and put 
over and around the meat. Sprigs of parsley are also used. 

BOILED BEETS. 

Potato salad looks very pretty garnished with thin slices of 
boiled beets. 

BAKING APPLES FOR PORK ROAST. 

Pare some good baking apples, and put in a baking pan; put 
some butter and sugar over them, and enougli water to make a 
sauce around them; v/hen well done remove the apples and put 



298 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



around the roast; add some brandy to the sauce and serve with 
the roast. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Roast turkey garnished with potato balls made of creamed 
mashed potatoes. Make into small balls and put in a baking 
pan, brush over with some sweet cream, and put in a brisk oven 
till a nice brown; remove and put around the turkey, and serve 
with cream gravy. 

FOR PUDDINGS. 

Puddings garnished with fruit, candied cherries, oranges or 
lemons impart a nice flavor, as well as improve the looks of any 
kind of puddings; after the pudding is put in the dishes, garnish 
with the candied fruit and send to the table. 

Ice cream that is molded is very nice garnished with straw- 
berries, or any kind of small fruit. 



ALLOWANCE FOR ENTERTAINMENTS. 299 



CtllotDancc for (Entertainments. 



-X- 



A few suggestions on making an allowance for entertain- 
ments, either public or in the home: 

I gallon of fresh oysters, 

i turkey, weighing lo pounds, 

1 small ham, 

2 chickens, for salad, 
i^ dozen sandwiches, 

I quart of cranberry sauce, 
Yn, gallon of pickles, 
Y-z gallon of ice cream. 

This allowance is for twelve persons, and can be increased 
or diminished according to the number of persons to be served. 
Will serve as a help to those that are not accustomed to this 
kind of work. 



300 THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



TABLE OF MEASURES AND WEIGHTS. 



I heaping quart of flour weighs i pound. 

4 teacups of flour weighs i pound. 

I quart of meal after sifting weighs i pound 4 oz. 

1 pint soft butter weighs i pound. 

2 teacups of soft butter weighs i pound. 

1 ^ pints of sugar weighs i pound. 

2 coffee cups of sugar weighs i pound. 

7 tablespoons of sugar equals i cup. 

5 tablespoons of flour equals i cup. 

4 tablespoons of soft butter equals i cup. 

3 tablespoons of grated chocolate weighs . . i oz. ^ 
2 heaping teaspoons of sugar or flour i tablespoon. 

LIQUIDS. 

I pint contains 16 fluid ounces or 4 gills. 

I ounce equals 8 fluid drachms or y^ gill. 

I tablespoon contains ^4 fluid ounce. 

I teaspoon equal i fluid drachm. 

4 teaspoons equals i tablespoon. 

16 tablespoons equal ^ of a pint. 

I wine glass equals 4 tablespoons. 

I teacup equals 2 gills. 

4 teacups equal i quart. 

I common sized tumbler holds 3^ pint. 



DEPARTMENTS. 301 



Departments. 



PAGE. 

Bread 5 

Meats 23 

Poultry and Game 37 

Fish and Oysters 45 

Soups 52 

Sauces and Gravies 5q 

Salads 67 

Eggs and Omelets 75 

Sandwiches 84 

Vegetables 87 

Puddings and Dumplings log 

Pies 122 

Layer Cakes 145 

Loaf Cakes 1 60 

C; okies 187 

Fancy Dishes 196 

Miscellaneous for the Table 211 

Hot and Cold Drinks 203 

Creams and Ices 217 

Cand}' Making at Home 225 

Canned and Dried Fruits, 231 

Miscellaneous Recipes, 239 



302 



THE CAPITAL COOK BOOK. 



Preserves, Jells and Jams 250 

Vinegar and Wines 262 

Pickles 265 

Toilet Recipes 273 

Miscellaneous for the House 279 

Menus 292 

Remarks on Garnishing 297 

Allowance for Entertainments 299 

Table of Measures and Weights 300 




