■ 



■ 



ilia 










LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

Chap._„\ .. V Copyright No. 



Shelf. 



.,3&\2> 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



Advertising Supplement . 



KINGSFORD'S 



Sold all around 
the World 



THE "ORIGINAL," 



OSWEGO 



The Standard for over 



STARCH 



Fifty Years 



PUREST, BEST 



1851 
LONDON 



HIGHEST AWARDS 

1893 
CHICAGO 



P OR FOOD .... 

Kingsford's Corn Starch 

Forms, with Milk or Beef Tea, a most 



Excellent JPood 

FOR 

CHILDREN AND INVALIDS 



It is a Wholesome Article of Diet 
...for All.... 

Send stamp for a FREE COPY of our dainty 
book of over 200 new recipes. 



pOR THE LAUNDRY 



1876 
PHILADELPHIA 




Kingsford's "Silver Gloss" Starch Z^J^^^SZ 

wonderful strength and uniformity. It imparts to fine laces, linens, and muslins a delicacy 
and lustre simply incomparable. 

Kingsford's "Pure" Starch k s e eTe 1 r S ad it D ifag°e I economical house ~ 



lutely pure, never varies in quality, and is free from odor. 

The perfect 
quick-working, economical 



genuine article, abso- 



Kinf^fflrfV^ <4 T 5 : ^1^1(1^ft ,, The perfect cold-water starch, labor-saving, 



T. KINGSFORD & SON, Manufacturers OSWEGO, N. Y. 



Advertising Supplement. 



Still Ahead and Gaining 



Smith's "DBAD SHOT" 



KNOWN TO BE THE 



ONLYJ)EADj5^ 

THAT CAN BE U8ED 

IT GETS THEM EVERY TIME DIRECTIONS ARE SIMPLE 



THE COST.... 
BUT A TRIFLE 

RESULTS CERTAIN 

Besides it is harm- 
less to everything 
but insects. Cakes, 
Pastries and edibles 
of all kinds can be 
covered with it with 
no bad results. 



If directions on the 
box are folio wed 
strictly, we 

GUARANTEE 
it in every instance 




PUT UP IN 2 AND 4 POUND BOXES 

Frioe, $1.00 ami 02.OO Per Box 



St. Paul, Minn.— Your "Dead Shot" is certainly 
the greatest thing on the American continent to de- 
stroy cockroaches. The Berresford Factory, 
of the American Bis & Mfg. Co. 



A FEW TESTIMONIALS 



Geo Moser, of the Moser Hotel, St. Louis, Mo , 
says:— It is worth $21.00 per pound to hotel men. 



CAM FURNISH ONE THOUSAND JUST SUCH AS THESE ABOVE 



CRANDALL & GOBLEY CO. CHAPMAN & SMITH CO, 



NEW YORK 

EASTERN AGENTS 



CHICAGO 

WESTERN AGENTS 



Order from nearest Agent or the Manufacturer 

B. HOWARD SMITH 



306=310 East 17th Street 



KANSAS CITY, MO. 



Advertising Supplement. 



Tanner's^ 



B 



AMBOO 
ASKETS 




Are known a ll over the cou ntry 

as the BEST BASKETS FOR BAKERS 




Constructed from best selected 

material 

By experienced workmen 



THEY ARE 



LIGHT, STRONG 
and DURABLE 



Many of the largest bakeries 
have used them for years, 
and praise their quality 



If you use our baskets once you will always send for 



TANNER'S BAMBOO 



We make light Splint Baskets for the shop, but for shipping. 
our "BAMBOO BASKETS" cannot be beaten 



SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE TO 



Tanner Bros. 



Kaukauna, Wis. 



Advertising Supplement. 



Henry Heide'S 

ONLY GENUINE 

Almond Paste 




To BAKERS.... 
and 
CONFECTIONERS 




HOLD ON TO THE BEST 



BEWARE OF IMITATIONS 




NEW WAY 

Wiiilllcil'ii.ailii! AM 



* * * 



A SI* 

FOR 




HENRY HEIDE'S 



THE ORIQINAL 



Almond Paste «» Macaroons 



ALWAYS RELIABLE, PURE 
and FRESH _— 



FOR SALE BY ALL SUPPLY HOUSES 
AND GROCERS 

MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 



Ok 



HENRY HEIDE - - 183 Franklin Street 

NE>W YORK 



Advertising Supplement. 



vn 



It is certainly a great satisfaction 
to work with a pure, perfect... 



gaking powder 



With the formula of its preparation printed on each can 
Such is the case with 



Cleveland's Racing powder 






It is the Purest 

and 

Finest 

Baking Powder 









<0^ 




'"1 u 



^mmM 



m*?m 



STRENGTH 

kPERFECTION'i 





It is the Strongest 

and 

Most Reliable 
Baking Powder 




If you want to be sure to have your 
Cakes and Biscuits Always Bake Alike, 
and Uniform insist on having 



Cleveland's Baking powder 



IT WORKS ALWAYS ALIKE— SURE ! 



Vlll 



Advertising Supplement. 



es 
< 

3 

a 

u 

C 
« « 

e 

CA 

la 

4) 

E 

E 

n 
r 




? 





<y 




<» 




a 




n 


e 






< 


w 


*» 


0! 


a 


("► 




r* 


cr 


3 


v 


*? 


o 


> 


3* 


"1 


n 


3 


■3 


J* 


7) 




C 


3 


O" 


3 




a 


c 


m 

n 




Cfl 




O 

a 


> 


(» 






* 




69 




«< 




tfl 



Trade Mark 



ESPECIALLY FOR BAKE-STUFFS 

MADE WITH SOUR MILK OR MOLASSES 



s 



aleratus- 






IS superior to Baking Powders or Yeast. But you 
must insist that only Pure Saleratus is used; we 
therefore advise you to always look for the. . . . 



A rm and Hammer grand 



^VG>^ 



As a GUARANTEE that your Bake- 
stuff will not turn green and bitter 



MANUFACTURED ONLY BY 



CHURCH & CO. 



NEW YORK 



FOR SALE BY ALL SUPPLY HOUSES AND GROCERS 



Perfection 

Baking 

A 



IN 



BY 



EMIL BRAUN. 



General rules and instructions in all branches of American baking 

In nine parts, each part containing many new theories and 

new ways of composing recipes, and furthering the 

culinary education of the professional 

baker as well as the housekeeper. 



SECOND EDITION. 

(revised and enlarged.) 


H. 


Chicago : V 
R. CLISSOLD, 
1895. 


IAN 11 18% 

<^£*XL, 



# 

y 




Copyrighted, 1895, 

BY 

Emil Braun. 



PREFACE. 




no other land has the baking and consumption of bake- 
stuffs grown to such an extent as it has within the past few 
years in this country. Even in the household of the most 
humble workman, as in the mansion of the rich and pros- 
perous merchant, the American cook and housewife is 
generally more praised and esteemed for her good bread, pastry and 
desserts, than for meat cooking. In looking over the numerous cook 
books that are now placed so freely before the public, the inexperi- 
enced can find no way of learning how or why the recipes read as they 
do. Before any success in baking can be expected, the cook, baker 
or housewife must be educated to all the particulars of the materials 
they are about to use. 

It is the main object of this work to show in plain language all 
who are interested how to become successful in baking; the theories 
of how to put together and how to change recipes, when the same 
grades or brands of materials are not on hand. Judgment and com- 
mon sense must be displayed to insure success. Did you ever hear a 
woman say, "I had good luck to-day with my cakes," but alas, the 
next time, "Oh, I had such bad luck with my baking" ? There it is; 
one day good luck, the next time ashamed to show the result of her 
labor, and all the good materials wasted. It is the lack of theoretical 



— 4: — 

knowledge about baking that brings the bad lnek, and many a pro- 
fessional baker is not able to explain the real cause ot the m.shap. The 
theories herein laid out plainly before the reader are all the result of 
careful, practical experiments, and are based upon accomplished facts. 
Being confident of the success of my efforts in demonstrating 
some new and practical points to all interested in baking, and wishing 
to prepare delicious desserts, I shall herewith give my rec.pes m 
several parts, each part treating upon a different branch in the art of 
baking. 




Utica. N. Y. 



PART I 



Puff Paste, Pies, Tarts, etc. 



American Puff Paste. 

One pound of butter washed well in ice water and one pound of 
mixed flour ; mix together very light, with one ounce of baking 
powder, one egg, one teaspoonful of salt and enough ice water to 
make a smooth paste, same as you make for tea biscuits ; roll out 
once about eighteen inches long and ten inches wide, turn in the ends 
to meet in the middle and double again ; let rest in ice box or cellar 
for an hour, and repeat this until rolled out four times. For tarts 
and patties, roll out one-quarter of an inch in thickness, cut out with 
biscuit cutter, lay on clean cooky tins (not greased), and if time 
allows, let rest awhile in cold place before baking. When ready for 
the oven, dip the top of a small wine glass or biscuit cutter in hot 
water and press in the center of each tart, down to near the bottom 
of the paste; bake in a hot oven. When baked, cut the center all out 
with a sharp pen-knife and they are ready to fill. This paste is very 
valuable for the American cook, so as to be able to make patty shells 
with success, while it takes a great deal more experience to make 
French puff paste. 

French Puff Paste. 

Mix stiff one pound of mixed flour (half pastry and half bread 
flour) with one egg, two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar or rum, and sufficient ice water. Work well and set to rest in 
ice box half an hour; then press the piece flat towards the edges, place 
in the center fourteen ounces of good dry butter washed well in ice 
water, with all the water and buttermilk squeezed out, and pull the 
edges of the dough over the butter from the four sides. Then you 
can proceed rolling it as in above recipe. If time allows, bake a little 
sample first; if it falls over in the oven, roll it out once or twice more; 
if butter runs out into the pan, let it rest longer on the ice. 



— 6 — 

HollantI or Dutch Paste, 

Wash in ice water one pound of butter until smooth. To one 
pound of flour add one-quarter of the butter, one-half teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one egg, and one teaspoonful salt ; mix all together 
with ice water (about one-half pint) into smooth dough; let rest awhile, 
then roll out in a long strip, break the rest of the butter into small 
pieces the size of a walnut and lay all over the dough, then turn the 
left end one-third over, then the other end over this; roll out carefully, 
one-half inch thick, using no more flour for dusting than is necessary, 
and turn over like American puff paste. Roll five times, and if butter 
is very rich, you can cut short say one ounce to the pound of flour. 

Vienna Tart Paste. 

Chop fine ten ounces of washed butter with one pound of pastry 
flour, six ounces of sugar, one tablespoonful of pie seasoning, then 
mix with three eggs into light paste. This paste is very extensively 
used as crust for the delicious large fruit and cream tarts so common 
in Europe. If convenient, use six yolks of eggs in place of three 
whole eggs, as this makes the paste more smooth. 

Common Pie Paste. 

Mix together, dry, one pound of flour with three-quarters of a 
pound of lard and butter, and one-half teaspoonful of salt, then moisten 
with enough ice water to have it hold together, but do not work any 
more than necessary; and if time allows, let it rest on ice before using. 
That is the secret of a tender pie crust; working it too much makes 
what you so often find — shoe-leather pies. If you want a cheaper 
crust for the bottom, use less shortening. Always wash pies on top 
with milk before baking; this gives them a lively and appetizing color. If 
the oven bakes slow from the top, add a pinch of salt to the milk you 
wash the pies with. 

Prepared Pie Seasoning. 

Not only in large hotels but also in every household a large 
quantity of that delicate flavor, the peel of lemon, is wasted daily. 
How often are lemons cut up, when in a moment's time the rind could 



— 7 — 

be grated and saved for future use, put in a glass jar and occasionally 
sprinkled over with a little sugar and a few drops of water to keep 
moist. In this way you can have lemon flavor free of cost all the 
year around. Two tablespoonfuls of this lemon peel, two cups of 
brown sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
allspice, one-half a nutmeg (grated); mix all together and keep in a 
can in a cool place, always ready for use. 

How to Prepare Pies. 

Pie plates should always be greased with butter, then dusted 
with flour, or what is better, cracker dust; this prevents the pie from 
tasting greasy after standing a day or two. Never have too rich a 
pie crust for the bottom, and always roll out very thin. For apple, 
and fresh fruit pies generally, it is advisable to dust the pie crusts with 
cracker dust before filling with the fruit, as this absorbs the juice of 
the fruit while baking. If fresh fruit pies are to be packed in lunch 
baskets, the following is a very valuable recipe : Mix the berries or 
other fruit, as soon as picked, with sufficient sugar, a little water, and 
put away if possible over night; before using, drain off the juice, and 
cook it, adding three tablespoonfuls of corn starch to every pint of 
juice, then add the fruit, mix, and it is ready for use. This pie will 
cut like jelly. Brown sugar is very good for pies and gives a nice flavor. 

Evaporated and Dried Fruits. 

By following instructions given here you will be surprised at the 
excellent results. Never soak any pie fruit over night. To one quart 
of boiling water add one-half pound of berries, apples or apricots, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, cook ten minutes until swelled up well, add 
three-quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, and one teaspoonful 
butter; cook five minutes longer, then stir into this two ounces or five 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch, dissolved in a little cold water ; stir 
quickly a few moments and set away to cool. This I guarantee to 
make the most delicate pies from any dried fruits. If fruit is very 
tart, like apricots, add a little more sugar ; with apricots you can 
always cook some apples, as apricots are almost too rich; some of the 
ready pie seasoning can be used to advantage in almost all pies. This 
mixture can be made in larger quantities and put away in cans or jars, 
as it keeps well. 



— 8 — 
Custard Pies. 

FOR THREE PIES. 

Line deep pie plates very thin with plain paste, fill with custard 
and bake about twenty minutes. For the custard, beat up six eggs 
with four ounces of powdered sugar, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, one-half teaspoonful salt, add two ounces of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of any extract you wish, and three pints of fresh milk; strain 
all together and bake twenty minutes. This mixture is also fine for 
cup custard. Bake about twenty minutes. To make sure that any 
kind of custard pie is done, stick a knife through the pie, and if you 
can remove it without any custard or milky paste sticking to it the 
pie is done. 

Z,emon Pie. 

Boil one quart of water with one cup of canned, fresh or dried 
apples, three-quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, until apples 
are soft, then stir into it three ounces (or five tablespoonfuls) of 
dissolved corn starch; remove from the stove and when cool add five 
to six eggs, one-half teaspoonful salt, the juice of three lemons, two 
grated lemon peels, and one tablespoonful butter; strain all through 
a colander and fill into pie dishes lined with plain pie crust. If you 
want French lemon pie, line flat pie dish with American puff paste, 
scallop the edge with your fingers or a knife, fill in the cream and lay 
four bars of the same paste over the top and four more crosswise over 
them. This is the finest lemon pie found in twenty years' practice. 

Pumpkin or Squush Pies. 

FOR THREE PIES. 

Cut up and boil soft one-half of a small pumpkin, strain off water 
well and press the dry meat through a colander. Beat up six eggs 
with six ounces of powdered sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful ginger, one-half nutmeg; then add the pumpkin, one 
quart of milk, and one tablespoonful of melted butter, strain all 
through colander again, fill in deep pie dishes lined with plain pie 
paste, and bake like custard pie — twenty to thirty minutes. This is 
enough for three large pies. Generally, as soon as pie is up above 
the rim of the plate it is done; if bottom is not quite baked, then set 
on top of hot stove a few seconds to finish bottom. The same rule 
applies to custard pies. 



— 9 — 
Cream Pies, 

FOR TWO PIES. 

Boil one quart of milk with one-half pound of sugar (one cup), 
stir into this quickly, while boiling, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
mixed with two or three eggs and one teaspoonful of any extract ; a 
little butter may be added ; you may also use grated lemon or orange 
peel, or two ounces of chocolate as required. Line a flat pie dish 
with American puff paste, dust well with cracker dust or flour, press 
another same size pie dish on top of the paste and set in the oven ; 
when about half done take top dish off and bake until done ; pour in 
cream and set away to cool. 



Cream Meringue Pie. 

Beat only the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; mix into it, 
light, one small cup of sifted powdered sugar ; spread this over the 
cream and dust with a little sugar; brown in oven about three minutes. 



Peach. Meringue* 

EUROPEAN STYLE. 

Skin say six ripe peaches, cut them up into thin slices, mix with 
one cup of powdered sugar and divide on twelve deep saucers ; then 
cover over with meringue, same as for cream meringue pie. If you 
have a canvas bag and tube you can ornament a little on top. Any 
other fresh fruit except berries can be used the same way. 

Russian Spice Pie. 

Line flat pie dish with common pie crust, and spread thin with 
any kind of jelly or jam. Mix together three-quarters of a pound of 
sifted bread or cake crumbs, three-quarters of a pound of lard, one 
quart molasses, one pint of sour cream or water, one ounce of saleratus, 
one egg, one pint of washed currants, a little chopped citron, a little 
lemon and vanilla extract, and one tablespoonful of cinnamon or pie 
seasoning ; mix all together and thicken with enough pastry flour to 
have a soft paste. Fill this on top of the jelly and bake slow; when 
baked, dust with powdered sugar. This pie is very fine when a few 
days old. 



_ 10 — 

Mince Meat for Pies. 

Two pounds of apples, chopped fine; one-half pound of washed 
currants; one pound of lean boiled beef, chopped fine; half-pound 
citron and orange peel; two lemons, grated and the juice; one pound 
raisins, stoning them if time allows; one pound of brown sugar; one- 
half nutmeg; two ounces of mixed ground spices; add either brandy, 
wine or cider to taste, and enough of the beef broth to moisten well. 

French Madelaine Pie or Tarts. 

Line pie dish or tart mould with American puff paste and spread 
with jelly. Stir together lightly one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet 
almonds pounded very fine, and six yolks or three whole eggs; then 
add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, three-quarters of a cup of 
pastry flour and one-half teaspoonful of baking powder. If too stiff, 
add a little milk or cream. Fill in the dish, roll out a piece of the 
paste, cut in narrow strips one-quarter of an inch thick, and lay close 
together across the top of pie. Bake by moderate heat for half an 
hour; if it colors too soon on top, cover with a strong, greased paper. 

Rice Pie. 

Line plate same as for custard pie. One cup of rice, boiled very 
soft with one-half teaspoonful of salt; beat lightly four eggs with one- 
half cup of sugar; add the rice, one-half nutmeg, a little lemon or 
cinnamon, one quart of milk or cream, and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Press all through a fine colander twice and bake same as 
custard pie. 

Southern Custard or Potato Pie. 

Boil or bake four good potatoes and take the skins off ; beat up 
with five ounces of powdered sugar and five eggs, then add one ounce 
of flour, one and one-half quarts of milk, one-half grated nutmeg, 
one-half teaspoonful salt and one tablespoonful melted butter. Strain 
all through colander, fill in lined pie plates and bake like custard. 
Sweet potatoes or carrots can be used the same way. You may also 
steam the potatoes until mealy but not watery. 



— 11 — 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Get your rhubarb cleaned and cut in strips one inch long the 
night before and mix well with sufficient sugar. Next morning strain 
off the juice and set on the fire ; when boiling add the rhubarb, boil 
about two minutes, stir two ounces (three good tablespoonfuls) of 
corn starch into it and take off to cool. A little cinnamon improves 
it greatly. Gooseberries are prepared in the same manner. 

European Cherry Pie (Plamri). 

Line a flat pie dish or layer-cake tin with American puff paste, 
dust well with cracker dust and cover the bottom with one layer of 
stoned cherries and bake half done ; pour over the following creme, 
and put back in oven for five to seven minutes longer. Creme: Four 
egg yolks, three ounces sugar, a little cinnamon, and two ounces of 
flour; mix all together, then add one-half pint of sour cream. 

Imperial Currant Pie and Tarts. 

Line one large flat cake tin with Vienna tart paste, making rim 
extra thick ; fill with following mixture and bake slow : Beat the 
whites of five eggs very stiff, adding six ounces of powdered sugar, a 
little at a time; after the eggs are stiff, add two ounces of chopped 
almonds and half a pint of sour cream; finally add one pint of picked 
red currants. In winter, use a pint can of preserved currants or one 
pound of washed English currants. This is the genuine recipe from 
the German Imperial Court Confectionery, and will repay a hundred- 
fold for the little extra care and trouble required in its preparation. 

Imperial Vanilla Cream Tarts. 

Line a dish with Vienna tart paste, making rim double thickness 
and bake. Beat the whites of four eggs very stiff, adding six ounces 
of sugar, a little at a time, then mix in the four yolks and two table- 
spoonfuls of dissolved gelatine with one tablespoonful of vanilla extract 
or vanilla sugar; pour into the baked pie crusts and set away in ice 
box until wanted. In the place of vanilla any other flavor or rind 
and juice of lemon or orange may be used. 



— 12 — 

Apple Flamri Tarts. 

Line flat pie dishes with Vienna tart paste, have side with extra 
thick rim dust with cracker meal, cut apples in thin slices, lay them 
closely together, covering the paste with one layer, sprinkle with 
sugar pie seasoning, currants, fine citron and almonds, and bake half 
done; pour over this the same mixture as above. Peaches and plums 
may be used the same way, but no berries. 

French Tartlets. 

Line patty moulds or flat tartlet dishes with American paste, 
dust well with flour and fill with dried beans or split peas; then pour 
out all the beans (saving them for the next time) and fill the shells 
with any jam, jelly or cream. These shells may also be used for 
oyster patties. 

Metropolitan Cream or Jelly Tarts. 

Line moulds as above and fill with jelly or cream and bake, then 
make a light meringue, spread over the tarts and put back in oven 
until browned over the top. 

L,arge Patties. 

From puff-paste leavings, roll out a sheet one-fourth of an inch 
thick cut out round the size of dish you wish to serve it on, wash the 
edge a little with water and fill the center with your meat or game; 
roll out another sheet of fresh paste, cover over the meat, lapping 
over the border; cut off sharp and scallop a little. For large patties 
lay another ring of fresh paste around the border. Wash a well 
with egg, prick a few times with a fork and decorate with small thin 
stars, etc. ; bake at about 370 degrees. 

Large Patty Shells. 

Cut out a round bottom layer one-quarter of an inch thick from 
good French paste, lay it on strong pan that will not warp in the 
oven Now make a ball of fine shavings, cover with thin paper and 
tie together with fine thread to keep it in shape. Set this in the center 



— V6 — 

of the paste and dust well with flour. Then roll out a piece of the 
paste one eighth of an inch in thickness and layover the ball, covering 
it thoroughly and lapping over the border, cut it off sharp on the 
edges, prick with a fork, wash well with egg, decorate with little 
ornaments of different shapes (stars, squares, crescents, etc.) and 
some narrow strips of paste laid crosswise. When baked, cut about 
two inches from the top all around with a sharp knife, remove the 
cover, cut the thread, take out the paper and shavings carefully and 
after cleaning out thoroughly they are ready to fill with fricassee, 
oysters, etc. 

\ T ol-a u- Ven ts. 

These serve the same purpose as patty shells, only they are not 
so hard to make. Roll out a strip of best puff paste one-third of an 
inch thick and cut with" a sharp knife one and one-half inches wide, 
long enough to form a ring the size of the dish in which you wish to 
serve it. Care must be taken to avoid touching the sides of any part 
of puff paste after it is cut, and also avoid allowing the waste to run 
down the sides, as this prevents the paste from rising even. In making 
a vol-au-vent, one end is carefully flattened down and washed with 
water, the other end lapped over this and afterwards washed with egg 
and pressed down evenly. The top may be marked crosswise with a 
fork. Extra small ornaments (stars, squares, crescents, etc.) are 
baked separately to decorate the fricassee after it is rilled in the ring. 



14 



GOLDEN RULES. 



Apple pies should always have the prepared seasoning. 

Gooseberries are improved by a little cinnamon or meringue. 

Never use more than four eggs to a quart of milk for any custard. 

Save all your broken crackers; dry them, pound fine and save for 
pies. 

All pie dishes should be greased, and then dusted with cracker 
meal. 

Never use soft butter or lard for pie crust. Always wash butter 
in ice water. 

For baked pot pies (either meat or fruit), use the American Puff 
Paste and prick well. 

Three ounces of sugar are sufficient to every quart of milk for 
custards of any kind. 

Dried apples, cooked soft enough to press through colander, are 
very nice for meringue pies. 

Never use too much flavoring of any kind in baking, especially 
cinnamon or almond extract. 

All fresh fruit should be mixed with sugar before filling in pies. 
A little butter increases the delicacy. 

Good corn starch can be used in a great many ways in pie 
baking, but only the best will give satisfaction. 

Huckleberries and blueberries should always be mixed with some 
apples, either fresh or canned, to increase flavor. 



— 15 — 

Always keep a can of the prepared pie seasoning on hand, as 
this will increase the delicacy of flavor of almost every pie. 

The recipe for American Puff Paste, if made as directed, will be 
worth more than the price of this book to any cook or housewife. 

All patties, tarts, banburys, etc., are much improved if they 
are allowed to rest on ice for at least half an hour before going into 
the oven. 

If cornstarch is to be used in place of flour, use the best. Don't 
use too much, a large tablespoonful always is sufficient to every pint 
of milk or water. 

Always follow our general rules and change flavors to suit your- 
self. Every one of our recipes can be used with different fruits, 
flavors and names changed, but follow the instructions otherwise. 

Success in pie baking depends a good deal on the mixing of the 
crust. Never work any more than necessary; just stir around enough 
to have it hold together and let rest as long as possible in cold place. 

Prick the top crust on every pie to let the steam escape. When 
using fresh fruit, insert in center of top crust a small round tube of 
tin or strong paper, through which all steam will escape as through 
a chimney. 



FOR NOTES AND RECIPES. 



PART II 



Puddings, Souffle, etc. 



Cottage Bread Pudding. 

For ten persons. Soak as much as a half loaf of stale bread or 
six biscuits in a quart of milk. Beat up well together four or five 
eggs, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, one-half teaspoonful 
salt and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Mix up well with the 
bread, adding one cup of large raisins. Bake in a buttered and sugar- 
dusted china dish or tin pan. Set this dish in a pan of hot water. 
A little nutmeg improves the flavor. 

Bread and Butter' Pudding. 

Slice your bread thin, spread well with butter, and fill your dish 
half full of this buttered bread; then pour custard ("prepared same as 
for custard pie) over it ; omit raisins and bake same as the other 
bread pudding. 

Farina or Indian Meal Pudding. 

One-half pound of farina or meal, stirred into one quart of boiling 
milk and leave on fire until it thickens; set away to cool, stirring into 
it, when cold, one-half pound of sugar, yolks of four eggs, the grated 
rind of a lemon and the stiff froth of the whites of four eggs; then add 
one even teaspoonful of good sifted baking powder, and one-half 
nutmeg, grated. Mix in well and bake one-half hour — not too hot. 

Souffle. 

Proceed the same as above, using eight eggs, and do not oake 
until time to serve. Bake in a hotter oven, using a china dish, and 
do not set into hot water as you do with puddings. 

( 17) 



— 18 — 

Tapioca and Sago Pudding. 

For twelve persons. Put one-halt pound of tapioca or sago in 
three pints of boiling water (never soak over night), stir and set on 
a slow fire ; stir continually to keep from sticking to the bottom 
When it is all soft and jellied, put in double boiler with one pint of 
milk and one-quarter of a pound of butter and cook twenty minutes 
more until jellied again, setting away to cool. Beat up well four eggs 
with three-quarters of a cup of sugar (six ounces), one grated lemon, 
and a little nutmeg; then mix well with the other mixture and bake 
about forty minutes — not too hot. 

Cottage Rice Pudding. 

For twelve persons. Put one-half pound of well-soaked rice in a 
galvanized kettle on a slow fire, with about three pints of boiling water 
and cook until all swelled and soft. If it boils dry, add more boding 
water but do not disturb. When done, set away to cool Proceed 
the same as above for sago. For sultana rice pudding, add one cup 
of sultana seedless raisins to above mixture. 

Rice Pudding, Family Style. 

Pour two quarts of boiling water over a pound of rice and cook 
very soft then adding lemon peel, one pouud of sugar and a little 
— two tablespoonfuls butter, and two tablespoonfuls corn 
star* When all the water is boiled in, add a pint of milk and cook 
all dry again; then pack solid in any mould and let it settle. Before 
Irving, furu out onl deep plate and sprinkle with cinnamon and pour 
over it a nice soft vanilla custard, cold. Dip your mould in cold 
water before filling with the rice. 

Roly-Poly, or Steamed Pudding. 
Mix together lightly, as for tea biscuits, one and one-half pounds 
of rich pastry flour, four ounces of butter or lard, one ounce o good 
baking powder, a little nutmeg, the yolks of three eggs one-half tea- 
spoonful salt and about one pint of milk. Roll out about eighteen 
n'ches long and ten inches wide. Spread with any fruit or jam; »U 
up, set in a greased pan in a steamer and cover over. It will be done 
in half an hour. 



— 19 — 
Fruit Dumpling. 

For this the paste is the same as Roly-Poly Pudding. Roll ou. 
one-quarter of an inch thick; cut out with large, round cake cutter; 
put fruit and sugar in middle and double over; set in greased muffin 
tins and steam about one-half hour. A dozen different kinds can be 
made from this formula. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Fill moulds three-quarters full with lady fingers or sponge cake, 
cut up fine; pour over it a rich custard, same as used for custard pie, 
and flavor to taste. 

Diplomatics Pudding. 

Proceed by the same rule as for cabinet pudding ; mix currants, 
sultana raisins and a little citron (cut very fine) with the sponge cake. 

Tutti-Frutti Pudding. 

Follow the same formula, only you may use pieces of different 
kinds of cake and sprinkle the fruit over the bottoms of moulds. 
Different names may be given this by using special fruits, such as 
peaches, oranges, etc. 

Cold Farina or Indian Pudding. 

Boil one-half pound of farina or meal with three pints of boiling 
milk, stir until it starts to thicken, then let it cool; add a little lemon 
or other flavor. Beat up stiff the whites of four eggs, mix all together, 
fill in moulds and set on ice. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

One cup<of Indian meal and one-half cup of flour, pour into one 
quart of boiling milk; when it thickens, add one-half cup (four ounces) 
of brown sugar, one-half cup of finely chopped suet, a little salt, four 
eggs and a little nutmeg ; two tablespoonfuls of molasses may be 
added. Tie in a cloth and boil or steam from four to five hours. 



_20 — 
Poor Man's Padding. 
■ t.lp biscuits for three biscuits and three com muffins) 

fT "*Z a handfu of stoned raisins, some washed currants, 
grated fine, add a handtul 01 sroi fing 

a good handful of brown sugar, and one cup ul o flo ^ 

with the flour one-quarte ro » ^ b« fsue ^ P ^ 

J.SS £S^"^tSd dish about two hours. Add a 
little nutmeg or mace. 

English Plum Padding. 

Chon fine one pound of beef suet with one cup. of pastry flour: 
ad d thre e P q fi ;arters !< a pound of ^^^J^^ 

6 T£e^^ f 1 

r g a r d c nron/nutmeg and allspice, te**«^ °J 

° a loaf of bread, which you have first soaked .» ^^TSl, or 
rum . Mix all well J^^^CS- Awards 
SSS" ;: " Ihfe S5 rum over it and set the rum on fire. 

Genuine Oid-Fasnioned EngZisn Ptan Pudding. 

One pound of suet, chopped fine, one pint of roasted bread 
crumble, one pound of «- = ^« "^ 
pound of citron, one-half teaspoonful nutmeg one p ^ 

sugar, a little salt, six eggs and two S-ted parrots. ^ ^ 

m0 uld not less than eight hours -.fpossbh, bo ^ 

day and two hours before using. Pack solid 8 
mould and tie up with cloth. Serve with French brandy sauce. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Roll out leavings of puff paste one-quarter of an inch thick, cut 

in scares, lay one ^^^^^ 

ravitv with cinnamon sugai. lurn m tne loui 

cavity d hard sauce , or it cold, 

together on top and bake, berve who rum * 

serve with whipped cream. 



— 21 — 
Chocolate Pudding. 

Stir until light one-quarter of a pound of butter and ten ounces 
of sugar, add the yolks of ten eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla, six 
ounces of grated chocolate, cinnamon, one-quarter pound of pounded 
almonds, one-quarter pound of breadcrumbs, three ounces of flour, and 
the whites of ten eggs beaten stiff. Bake one and one-half hours, at 
about three hundred and seventy degrees. 

Almond Pudding. 

GERMAN STYLE. 

Stir light five ounces of butter and one-half pound of sugar; then 
add the yolks of nine eggs, lemon peel, six ounces of pounded almonds 
or one-half pound of almond paste, one-half pound of biscuits soaked 
in milk and squeezed out dry, and the snow of the whites of eight 
eggs. Bake in a buttered and sugar-dusted fancy mould. 

Queen Pudding. 

Mix, same as for wine cake, one pound of sugar, one-half pound 
of butter, one and one-half pounds of pastry flour, seven eggs, one- 
half pint of milk, one-half ounce of soda, one ounce of cream of 
tartar sifted in the flour, mace and citron. Bake in well-buttered 
and sugar-dusted moulds. 

Suet Pudding. 

Mix together one cup of stoned raisins, three and one-half cups 
of flour, one cup of chopped beef suet, cinnamon and mace. To one 
cup of cream or milk add one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
soda and two eggs. Mix thoroughly, fill in a mould with tight-fitting 
cover, well buttered and dusted with crumbs or sugar. Steam three 
hours. 

Snow Pudding. 

For- twelve persons. Dissolve one ounce gelatine in one-half 
glass of sherry wine and as much water. In the snow of the whites 
of ten eggs beat three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar and the gela- 
tine. One orange peeled, and the -juice of the same, will increase the 
delicacy of flavor. Set away in little moulds to ha»rden. If fruit 
flavors and coloring are used, a variety of names can be given. 



— 22 — 

Minute Pudding. 

Of one quart milk take enough with three ounces of flour to make 

a soft batter. The balance of the milk, with five ounces of sugar, 

set on the fire. When boiling, add one-half teaspoonful salt and two 

beaten eggs;, stir continually about five to eight minutes, until thick 

like creme. Serve with sweet cream, sweetened and seasoned with 

mace. 

Boston Brown Bread Pudding. 

Mix two pounds self-raising brown bread flour with one and one- 
half pints of cream or milk, one pint of molasses and enough water 
to make a soft dough, one cup of raisins, five ounces of finely 
chopped beef suet. Bake in water-bath one and a half t© two hours. 
A little sugar may be added. Before serving, pour hot brandy sauce 
over it to soften crust. 

Brown Bread Pudding. 

NEW ENGLAND STYLE. 

Cut into thin slices a loaf of graham bread or brown bread; butter 
them well. Arrange them in layers in buttered, sugar-dusted moulds 
until half full; fill up with plain custard. Some English currants 
may be sprinkled between the layers; they give custard a rich mace 
flavor. Let soak for a half hour before baking; bake in water-bath. 

Floating Island. 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs with ten ounces of sugar; add two 
ounces of cornstarch, vanilla and a little milk. Boil one quart of milk; 
stir into it the above mixture; take from the fire and when a little 
cool pour in a large glass or porcelain dish; set on ice. Beat very 
stiff the whites of six eggs; add a handful of sugar and a little vanilla. 
With a large spoon (dipped in water) take out in pieces and put in 
boiling water for a few minutes; then arrange these "snow-balls" 
on top of the custard. A little jelly may be sprinkled on top of each. 
Dust with powdered sugar and serve. 

Stock Sauce. 

In the saucepan dissolve together three tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch, one-half pound or one cup of brown or granulated sugar, a 
little mixed whole spice, one-half lemon rind and juice, with a pint of 



— 23 — 

cold water and set on the fire. Let it simmer slowly until it is clear, 
add a little butter or salt and strain. Before serving, add one-half 
glass of any wine desired, or one tablespoonful of any extract, one- 
quarter pound of butter; set on stove and stir until butter is melted. 
Color to suit taste. 

Chateau Sauce. 

The proper name is Cheau d'Eau, but is generally called as above. 
Beat light the yolks of four eggs with two handfuls of powdered sugar 
and the rind and juice of half a lemon; stir in slowly one-half glass of 
Rhine wine and beat well until it is all foam, over a moderate fire. 
This is a favorite sauce. 

Hard Sa uee. 

Rub together to a froth one cup of butter, one and one-half cups 
of powdered sugar, the juice of half a lemon, or a little vanilla and the 
white of one egg. If you have a bag and tube drop in little stars, or 
set on a plate, sprinkle with mace and put it on ice to harden. 

Rum Sauce. 

Mix together one-half quantity of hard sauce and one-half quantity 
of stock sauce, add one small glass of rum, let it boil lively fcr about 
five minutes, keeping it hot until served. 

Cream Sauce. 

Mix together, in a double boiler, one cup of fine sugar, one and 
one-half pints of cream and milk, one ounce of corn starch or two 
ounces of flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of 
butter; stir occasionally, and when just starting to thicken remove 
and strain. Flavor with vanilla. 

French Cream Sauce. 

Add a little cognac brandy to mixture for cream sauce. 

Yankee Sauce. 

Same as rum sauce, only add a little ground ginger and molasses. 



— 24 — 
Brandy Sauce. 

Stir to a cream one cup of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
one-half of grated nutmeg, one-half of the peel and the juice of one 
lemon; set on a good fire; add three eggs and one glass of brandy. Let 
it boil about five minutes. This is a very fine sauce. 

Omelette Souffle. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, a little vanilla, one-quarter of a pound 
of sugar and one spoonful sweet cream; stir fifteen minutes; add 
quickly the whites of six eggs beaten very stiff; mix it very light; 
pour in a warm porcelain dish greased with butter, bake at once, 
not too slow. Dust a little fine sugar over it. Flavor, with vanilla. 

Fritters. 

Fritters are frequently made with apples, peaches and other 
large fruits with this recipe: Dissolve one yeastcake in one pint warm 
milk; add one-quarter of a pound of sugar, salt, four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls best olive oil and enough pastry flour to make a soft batter. 
Set to rise; then beat again, add a little nutmeg, throw in the fruit, 
cover all with the batter, and fry in hot lard. 

Fritters with Baking Powder. 

The same proportions; instead of the yeast use one tablespoonful 
of baking powder, and mix shortly before using. 

Mayonnaise. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

In a deep soup-plate place the yolks of four eggs, two teaspoon- 
ful-s best ground mustard, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of salt, one- 
half teaspoonful cayenne pepper, and one-half teaspoonful white 
pepper. With a large fork or spoon stir continually in one direction. 
With the other hand pour in slowly from time to time, from the bottle, 
the best olive oil. As soon as it commences to bind and get stringy, 
add quickly a little lemon juice or vinegar. Keep stirring continually 
until three-fourths of a pint of oil, the juice of one lemon, and one-half 



— 25 — 

gill of vinegar are used up. Stir up well, then place at once on ice. 
Some cooks make a big time about mayonnaise, but if everything is 
properly prepared there is no excuse for failure. Everything should 
be cold, especially the oil. Should the dressing break in spite of all, 
add quickly another yolk of egg, and stir, holding back the oil for a 
minute. 



Combination of Puddings and Sauces. 



Not every sauce corresponds with every pudding ; the following 
will be found to correspond well: 

Cottage Rice pudding and Vanilla sauce. 
Sago pudding and Madeira sauce. 
Farina pudding and Cream sauce. . 
Cabinet pudding and Chateau sauce. 
Indian pudding and French Cream sauce. 
Cottage Bread pudding and Rum or Hard sauce. 
Fruit pudding and Brandy sauce. 
Sponge pudding and Rhine Wine sauce. 
Angel Food pudding and Raspberry sauce. 
English Plum pudding and Rum and Hard sauce. 
Tapioca pudding and Sherry Wine sauce. 



— 26 — 



Hints on Puddings. 

Never soak rice for rice -puddings. 
Always use pastry flour if on hand. 

If patent flour is used, use a little extra lard and mix moist. 
When berries are used for Roly Poly, prepare them the same way 
as for pies in Part I. 

If boiled in a kettle direet on the fire, put a plate on the bottom 
to keep the pudding from burning. 

To boil puddings in a bag, grease the inside of the cloth with 
but J and sug'ar; when done, dip the bag in co.d water so that ,t 
will loosen easily. 

If you want to steam puddings, put the mixture in a greased and 
sugared mould or dish and tie over with a cloth and set mto steamer. 
Cover steamer closely and steam a little longer than for borlmg. 

There are other formula for plum puddings, but I give two only 
which are warranted the best. The first is what I use; ,t cuts and 
looks excellently. The other is the genuine old Colomal recpe. 



FOR NOTES A.XD RECIPES. 



FOR NOTES AND RECIPES. 



PART III 



Ice Creams, Sherbets, Jellies, etc. 



European Style of Freezing. 

Especially for water-ices, the European hand-freezing process is 
the best, in fact the only proper way. A plain packing can, of zinc 
if possible, is used. Set it in a packing tub, well packed with salt and 
ice. Do not pack too solid, but so you can turn the can with 
one hand; strain and pour in your syrup; put the cover on (with 
handle) and turn for about five minutes, then with spatula scrape off 
the sides, and, turning the can with one hand, stir up the syrup on 
the sides; put the cover on again after a few minutes and turn fast, 
and so continue turning, occasionally scraping the sides down until 
all is well frozen; then, after letting all the water run off, re-pack 
with more ice and salt, beat up well once more and set away. The 
open "Vienna Ice Cream Machine" is now adopted by many of the 
leading caterers and is worked on this principle. The "American Ice 
Cream Machine " is certainly more convenient, more profitable, and 
quicker in working. It beats up the cream, or ices, increasing the 
contents to double the liquid quantity at least, but it does not give it 
the fine, silk-like finish obtained by the use of the European method. 

Vienna Ice Cream (Vanilla). 

Set on a moderate fire in a clean kettle two quarts of milk, yolks 
of twelve eggs, one-half of a vanilla bean, one and three-fourth pounds 
of sugar, stirring slowly but steadily with beater. As soon as it is 
near boiling, take off, cool a little, and add one quart of double 
cream; strain through a fine sieve and freeze. 

Ice Cream with Eggs. 

Mix well two quarts of cream, one quart of milk, six eggs, one 
and one-fourth pounds of powdered sugar; vanilla. 

(29) 



— 30 — 

Philadelphia Ice Cream. 

Beat up two quarts of double cream, three-fourths of a pound 
of fine sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, strain through a fine sieve 
into freezer, add the whites of two eggs and freeze. In place of 
whites of eggs, one tablespoonful of desiccated egg white can be used 
to advantage. 

American Ice Cream. 

Dissolve two ounces of desiccated egg food in one quart of milk; 
cook two quarts of milk with one and a quarter pounds of sugar, add 
the solution and two tablespoonfuls of vanilla or lemon, strain and 
add two whole raw eggs. This is an inexpensive cream.- 

Custard Cream. 

One gallon of milk, three ounces of desiccated egg food, two 
pounds of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch. Set on a mod- 
erate fire; stir until near boiling, but do not let it boil up. If desired, 
about two quarts of sweet cream may be added with ten ounces of 
powdered sugar. Flavor to taste. 

Lfemon or Orange Ice Cream. 

To any of the above mixtures add one ounce of either lemon or 
orange extract to a gallon. 

Raspberry Fruit Cream. 

Two quarts of double cream, one quart of ripe berries, one 
lemon peel and juice, and one and a quarter pounds of fine sugar; 
stir up; press through a fine sieve and freeze slowly. 

Peaches, strawberries and all other fruits may be used the same 
as above. 

Pineapple Cream. 

Make same as above, only grate into it one large, peeled pineapple, 
well ripened. 



— 31 — 
Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Dissolve six ounces of chocolate with one-half pound of powdered 
sugar and three-fourths of a pint of water on a slow fire. Stir until 
all is smooth and getting thick, then add slowly any of the above 
mixtures. 

If it is desired to make chocolate cream from vanilla already 
frozen, dissolve chocolate as above, then cool a little, and add by 
small spoonfuls some of the frozen cream until all is smooth and 
thoroughly cold; then add sufficient of the frozen cream, set in well 
packed freezer; stir a few minutes and set away. 



Chocolate Essence. 

TO KEEP ON HAND. 

Dissolve two pounds of chocolate in a hot water bath; cook five 
pounds of sugar and one-half pound of glucose with one quart of water 
to a syrup, then pour it slowly into the chocolate, stirring well; add 
some powdered sugar if you want to make it sweeter. Set away in a 
cool place. 

Coffee Cream. 

Mix two quarts of .double cream and three-fourths of a pound of 
powdered sugar. Cook one quart of milk, add one-fourth of a pound 
of mixed Java and Mocha coffee, ground, and let -it simmer about 
fifteen minutes; add two handfuls of sugar and let it stand some time; 
strain into the cream; add three eggs and freeze. 

Holcey-P okey . 

Dissolve two ounces of cornstarch in one gallon of milk; add one 
and three-fourth pounds of sugar; boil until it starts to thicken; take 
from the fire and add two ounces of vanilla, one can condensed milk, 
whites of three eggs, and strain. 

Caramel Cream. 

To one gallon of Philadelphia or Vienna cream add four ounces* 
of burnt sugar (caramel) and one ounce of vanilla. 



— 32 — 

Bisque Ice Cream, 

For each gallon of Philadelphia cream allow, before serving, one 
glassful of strong wine and a half pound of roasted, crushed macaroons. 

Croquant or Nougat Ice Cream. 

To Philadelphia or Vienna cream add, -after freezing, one-half 
pound of crushed croquant, a little vanilla and sugar color. If it 
takes too long to cook fresh croquant, crush one-half pound raw well 
roasted almonds with fine sugar. 

Sherbets and Punches- 
Few pastry cooks make a distinction between sherbet and water- 
ice. For sherbet or punch, for twenty-five persons, use the following 
formula: To two and one-fourth pounds of sugar add two and one- 
half quarts of boiling water; the juice of four and rind of two lemons; 
stir all up well; strain and add the whites of three eggs and freeze well. 
This is a general formula for all sherbets and punches and gives the 
best satisfaction. Lemons are so cheap now everywhere, that there 
is no excuse for using acids in their place. Using water in place of 
milk or cream reduces the cost so much that all possible care should 
be taken, and only the best of liquor and -fruits should be used in 
their preparation. 

Roman Punch. 

To above mixture add, before serving, one wineglassful of rum. 

Cardinal Punch. 

To above add one orange peel and the juice of two oranges; 
color bright red. Before serving add one wineglassful of sherry wine. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

A small can of grated pineapple, or a small fresh grated pine- 
apple added to above. 



— 33 — 

Orange and Lemon Sherbets. 

Add to formula for Sherbets the grated peels of two and the 
juice of four oranges or lemons. Other fruits for sherbets are used 
in the same proportion. 

'Water Ices. 

Genuine water-ice is best made in a Vienna freezer or by hand. 
The very best ices should not be beaten up while freezing, but be 
compact and firm when done. The genuine formula is: Boil one 
quart of water with one and one-half pounds of sugar to a syrup, then 
add the grated peel of one and juice of two lemons, and one pint of 
juice of any kind of fruit. If the fruit is tart, such as red currants, 
use more sugar. If you want to beat up same, add the whites of 
two eggs. 

Lemon Ice. 

Take one extra peel and the juice of two more lemons than in 
the formula. 

Frozen Lemonade. 

Take half of any sherbet, after freezing, and add one pint of 
water and one handful of powdered sugar to it. Fill glasses three- 
fourths full and lay on the top of each a small piece of the sherbet. 

Frozen Fruit. 

Only fresh fruit as may be in season, should be used. Freeze 
any fruit as for sherbet above; before serving mix in one quart of 
fresh fruit; whole peaches, apricots and such large fruit should first 
be cut in smaller pieces. 

Jellies. 

Jellies and cold desserts are often prescribed for the sick, but 
some cooks use gelatine to excess, and often poor gelatine at that, 
so that the lime taste kills the good quality of the jelly. 

The following is a stock formula: Dissolve one package of gela- 
tine (four ounces) in two quarts of cold water, add one quart of boiling 
water, two and one-half pounds of granulated sugar, a little mixed 



34: 



whole spice, the juice of five lemons the^ of ^ons and 
about -We ^en - g J^j- * « ^ ^ _ of 

felt bag. it not an ciedi warm 

again. Do not disturb the bag m the least and keep , : . 
T e From this stock you can make any kmd of jelly and .put 
away in I dry, dark place in bottles with tight covers, wdl keep fresh 
a long time. Lemon Jelly. 

To each quart of the above, dissolved by warming, add the juice 
of two lemons'and one-half of a lemon peel cut up very fine. 

Wine Jelly. 

Sherry or Port Wine Jelly. 

Add a few drops of burnt sugar color and one-half of a glassful of 

wine to each quart. 

Claret Jelly- 

Add a few drops of cochurea, coloring and one-half o, a glassfuf 

of Bordeaux wine for each quart. 

Champagne Jelly. 

* nf stock ielly add one-third of a pint of champagne 
To one quart of stock jeny a ^^ thg whltes of 

cid er, fill in champagne ^ »^ u ° rf d ; ssolved ge ,atine, and 
^k^ rhe tt oTe^ gli and set on ice nntU ready to serve. 

Orange Jelly. 

r * i a HH the iuice of one orange and the rind 



— 35 — 

Fruit Jelly. 

Put a pint of stock jelly into a quart mould and set it to harden; 
when half set lay on the top a layer of nice washed berries, cherries 
or other fruit; fill up with dissolved stock and set to harden again. 

Demi-Glace of Coffee. 

The same as snow pudding (see Part II.), only omit the wine and 
add one cupful of strong coffee and a few drops of sugar color to 
gelatine. 

Blane Mange. 

ESPECIALLY RECOMMENDED FOR THE SICK. 

One handful of sweet blanched almonds pounded very fine in 
a mortar; dissolve two ounces of gelatine in one quart of sweet milk; 
add six ounces of sugar; let it, with the almonds, come to near the 
boiling point on the stove, then add one and one-half pints of sweet 
cream; let simmer a few minutes, still stirring it. When nearly cold, 
strain into the prepared moulds and set on ice. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Line a glass dish or bowl with ladyfingers or slices of sponge 
cake and filhwith the following creme: Dissolve one ounce of gela- 
tine in a half pint of water, set warm; whip one quart of double 
cream very stiff, let it drain for a while, then beat in the yolks of two 
eggs, six ounces of powdered sugar, and add the gelatine and vanilla. 
Fill the molds and set away on ice. It can be ornamented with 
whipped cream. 

Swiss Cream Meringue. 

Soak a thick board in fresh water. In the meantime beat the 
whites of seven eggs very stiff and add gradually one pound of pow- 
dered sugar; flavor with vanilla. Set with bag and tube (or large 
spoon) about the size of a goose egg, on paper, dust lightly with 
sugar, set on the wet board and bake in a very cool oven. When hard 
and a light brown take off one at a time; scrape out the soft inside 
with the back of a spoon and lay the shells bottom up on tins and 
put back in the oven to dry out. They can be kept for months. 
Before using, set two together with whipped cream. 



— 36 — 
Raspberry Floats. 

Float: In farina boiler boil one pint of raspberry juice, one- 
fourth of a pound of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch; add, 
as soon as thick, the whites of four eggs well beaten; let all cool. 

Creme: Boil one pint of milk with three ounces of sugar; stir 
together the yolks of three eggs, one ounce of cornstarch, a little 
milk and four drops of almond extract, and pour it into the boiling 
milk; as soon as it commences to thicken, pour in a glass dish, and 
when cold lay the float on top by spoonfuls. 

Fruit Blanc Mange. 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in a half pint of sweet cream. 
To one pint of fresh red currants or other fruit, add ten ounces of 
fine sugar, one spoonful of lemon juice. Let soak one hour, mashing 
them up well; strain, mix well with the gelatine, stirring in hot 
water bath, and fill in the 'dish. Serve with sweet cream, poured 
over, or whipped cream. 

Raspberry Bavarian. 

Dissolve three ounces of gelatine in a half pint of cream; press 
out enough raspberries to get one pint of juice; add sugar to it; after 
it is strained add the gelatine to it; set in ice water, stirring it until 
nearly cold. Beat up one pint of double cream, very stiff; let the 
other mixtnre run into it quickly, stirring it. Fill at once in fancy 
mould and set on ice. Turn out when ready to serve, by dipping for a 
second in hot water and ornament with whipped cream. 

Strawberry Bavarian, Chocolate, or any other kind is made on 
the same principle, only substitute different flavors and colors. 



— 37 — 



Golden Rules. 



For freezing, figure one quart of rock salt to five quarts of finely 
chopped ice. 

Punch, sherbet and frozen fruits are generally served in glasses 
with handles. 

One ounce of good gelatine is always sufficient to one quart of 
liquid for any dessert. 

Always use doable cream, that is cream which has stood twenty- 
four hours undisturbed. 

Too much salt will freeze cream quicker, but makes it coarse 
and melts the ice too quickly. 

Gelatine should always be soaked first in cold water before being 
melted. If heated too quickly or if boiling water is thrown over it, 
a disagreeable lime taste is given to it. 

To fill fancy moulds, such as flowers, etc., in ice cream and ices, 
each part must be filled well, so all the rims are packed solid when 
closed, then wrap each mould in strong paper and pack at least three 
hours in ice. 



FOR NOTES AND RECIPES. 



PART IV. 



Sponge Cal<es, Pound Cal<es, 
ka\)er Calces, etc 



Sponge Cake. 

Most] of the younger bakers, who learned their trade in this 
country, are using hardly any recipes for real sponge cakes. In gen- 
eral there is now so much cream of tartar and baking powder intro- 
duced in the recipes that these cakes are hardly worthy the name 
any longer. • Sponge cake (biscuit) is (or used to be) as a rule one of 
the finest and most delicate cakes, and widely used for the sick. 

European Sponge Cake. 

WARM. 

Beat fourteen eggs and one pound of fine sugar well in a kettle, 
then set in a hot water bath and beat until thoroughly heated. Beat 
cold again, until light and firm; add one tablespoonful of water. 
Sometimes it may be necessary to beat warm the second time, to get 
it firm. (It must be somewhat standing up, before setting down 
smooth, when you take out the batter, before it can be called done.) 
Stir into this one pound of sifted pastry flour, in which two ounces of 
cornstarch may be mixed and one tablespoonful of lemon. Bake 
medium hot, say 360 degrees. 

Vienna Sponge Cake. 

COLD 

Beat the whites of fifteen eggs very stiff; add by handfuls part 
of one pound of powdered sugar, then add the remainder of the 
sugar and the yolks of fifteen eggs, stirring in carefully. Take out 
the beater and mix in one pound of pastry flour; flavor with lemon. 
Bake at 360 degrees. 

(39) 



-- 40 — 

L,arge Sponge Cake. 

Beat up well in a bowl the yolks of eighteen eggs with one pound 
of powdered sugar; beat very stiff the whites of eighteen eggs and 
acid one-fourth of it to the sugar in the bowl, then mix in lightly one 
pound of sifted pastry flour (one-half pound of cornstarch and one- 
half pound of flour mixed, is still better), the rest of the whites of egg 
and lemon or vanilla. Bake slowly and well in large paper-lined tin, 
at 350 degrees. 

Vienna Sponge Cake, 

Beat the whites of twenty-eight eggs very stiff (it is best to use 
it two or three days old) ; add by handfuls one pound of powdered 
sugar, then the yolks of twenty-eight eggs, and last one pound of fine 
cake flour; mix as light as possible; bake quick in deep, square mould. 
This cake must be raised in a quick heat; if not, it gets dark in color 
before it is done. When once done raising and half baked, open the 
dampers or doors, and finish slower. Cut in five cent squares, and 
dust well with sugar. Bake at 400 degrees. 

T^ight Pound Cake. 

Use the first or third recipe for sponge cake, only mix in lightly, 
after the flour, one-half of a pound of good melted butter. 

Pound Cake. 

One pound of powdered sugar and one pound of good dry butter, 
rubbed to cream; add slowly, one at a time, ten eggs, which you beat a 
little first, and in warm weather, keep in ice water; then mix in one 
pound (good weight) of pastry flour, mace and vanilla. It is best to 
add flour by the handful. Bake in-cool oven, about two' hours; if not 
sure of its being done, stick a broomstraw in the center to the bottom, 
and if it pulls out clean, without dough on it, the cake is done. 

Raisin Pound Cake. 

To the above mixture, add two and one-half pounds of Sultana 
raisins; rub them first well in flour. 



— 41 — 
American Sponge Cake. 

Beat up one pound of powdered sugar with twelve eggs, set in 
hot water bath until warm, beat until it does not run down quick 
from the beater, when raised; then add lightly one pound of pastry 
flour, sifted, with one-half of an ounce of baking powder. Bake in 
duchess tins at about 360 degrees. 

Jelly Roll. 

Take the above recipe and with bag and tube lay out in even 
thin layer, on a cooky pan, all lined with paper; use the lady finger 
tube. Bake quick at 400 degrees, and turn out at once on sugar- 
dusted paper; spread with jelly and roll up while warm. 

Common Jelly Roll. 

Stir up together well one pound of sugar with six eggs; add one- 
half of a pint of milk, lemon, one and one-half pounds pastry flour, 
and one ounce of baking powder. 

Imitation Raisin Cake and Pound Cake. 

Two pounds of sugar and one and one-fourth pounds of butter, 
rubbed to cream; add slowly one and one-half pints of eggs, one and 
one-half pints of milk, two and one-half pounds of cake flour with 
one ounce of baking powder, sifted; mix in three and one-half pounds 
of seedless raisins rubbed in one-half pound of flour. Finer cake is 
made by adding milk and flour alternately, part of each at a time, 
mixing light. Leaving raisins out will make a fine pound cake. 

Gold Cake. 

One-half of a pound of butter, three-fourths of a pound of sugar, 
rubbed to cream; add slowly five eggs, one-third of a pint of milk, 
and then one pound of pastry flour with one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a little egg coloring and vanilla. Bake in flat squares at 370 
to 380 degrees. 

Orange Cake. 

To the above mixture add the juice and grated peel of one 
orange. Bake in layers, set together with orange cream filling. 
(See Part IX.) 



— 4:2 — 

Layer Cake. 

For layers, the gold cake mixture is very fine. Bakes very even. 

. Marble Ca/ce. 

Take the above gold cake mixture. Place one-half of a tea- 
spoonful of red coloring in a china bowl and mix in enough dough to 
make it a bright red. In another bowl melt one-third of a pound of 
chocolate; and mix also with enough of above dough. Now fill a 
paper-lined pan half full with plain gold cake dough; with a spoon 
make four deep furrows in it, fill them alternately with red and 
chocolate; fill up to the top with plain cake dough, and smooth over. 
Bake like citron cake. 

Citron Cake. 

Rub one and one-half pounds of butter with one and three- 
fourth pounds of powdered sugar to cream; add slowly one and one- 
half pints of egg whites, then two pounds of flour with one-half of a 
teaspoonful of baking powder; beat the eggs a little first; add 
one and a half pounds of citron, sliced thin and rolled in flour; almond 
flavor. Bake at 370 degrees. 

Lady Cake. 

Cream together two pounds of powdered sugar with one and one- 
half pounds of butter; rub in slowly the whites of eight eggs, then 
beat the whites of eight more eggs to a froth and add part of it to the 
above, the rest alternately with two and one-fourth pounds of pastry 
flour. Bake at 350 degrees. 

Silver Cake. 

One-half of a pound of butter, one-half of a pound of lard, one- 
half of a pound of sugar, all creamed together; add one pint of egg 
whites slowly, then three-fourths of a pint of milk with one-fourth of 
an ounce of soda in it; then two pounds of flour with one-half of an 
ounce of cream of tartar; mix light. Bake at 370 degrees. 



— 43 — 
Citron Cake. No. 2. 

The silver cake recipe makes a nice, cheap citron cake, with one 
and one-half pounds of citron added. 

Wedding Cake. 

Cream together one pound of butter with one and one-fourth 
pounds of powdered sugar; add slowly twelve eggs; then one and one- 
fourth pounds of pastry flour with one-half of an ounce of baking 
powder; soak one and one-half pounds of washed currants, one and 
one-half pounds of stoned raisins, three-fourths of a pound of sliced 
citron, with brandy; mix to above dough; add one-half of a nutmeg. 

Dark Wedding Cake. 

Take pound cake mixture (genuine) and add one-half of a pint ot 
Porto Rico molasses, two ounces of cinnamon, allspice and cloves, 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, one teaspoonful of almond, one and one- 
half pounds of currants, one and one-half pounds of seedless raisins, 
three-fourths of a pound of sliced citron, all mixed well; one glass of 
sherry wine, one glass of brandy. Bake very slowly. 

Wine Cake. No. 1. 

Cream together two pounds of sugar with three-fourths of a 
pound of butter and lard; add eight eggs slowly, one quart of milk, 
vanilla or lemon, three pounds of flour and two ounces of baking 
powder. Dust with sugar before baking. Bake at 370 degrees. 

Wine Cake. No. 2. 

Cream together two pounds of butter and lard, four pounds of 
sugar, one and one-half pints of eggs, three pints of milk, six and one- 
half pounds of flour, five and one-half ounces of baking powder, egg 
coloring and mace. Prepare as above. 

Strawberry Short Cake. No. 1. 

Make a rich tea biscuit dough of three pounds of flour, six ounces 
of butter and lard, two and one-half ounces of baking powder, a little 
salt, and one quart of milk; roll out in round layers one-fourth of an 



— 44 — 

inch thick, wash one layer a little with butter, lay another on top 
and bake. Take apart, spread with butter on the soft side, fill well 
with berries and juice and set the top on, spread with berries again, 
and pour juice over all. Have berries mixed well with powdered 
sugar for one hour. 

Strawberry Short Cake. No. 2. 

Take layer cake (plain layers), spread well with meringue (the 
whites of six eggs beaten with one-half pound of powdered sugar), 
spread with berries, dust with sugar, lay another layer on top, spread 
again, set the berries in rows on top, sprinkle with sugar, ornament 
a border around the edge with the meringue, and set a few minutes 
in the oven to brown the top. 

Strawberry Meringue Squares. 

Same as above, baked in squares, not too thick, cut in ten cent 
squares, well browned, are good sellers in season. 

Duchess. No. 1. 

Mix like wine cake. One pound of butter and lard, two pounds 
of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of egg coloring, seven eggs, one and 
three-fourth pints of milk, mace, three and one-fourth pounds of 
flour, two and one-half ounces of baking powder. 

Duchess. No. 2. 

Cream together two and one-half pounds of sugar, one and 
one-half pounds of butter and lard, one quart of eggs, slowly added; 
one quart of milk, in which is dissolved one ounce of soda; four and 
one-half pounds of flour, with two ounces of cream of tartar and a 
little mace. Frost half chocolate, half white. Bake in square tins, 
lined with paper. 

A.ngel Food. 

Beat the whites of ten eggs very stiff; sieve together one-half of a 
pound of powdered sugar, five ounces of pastry flour, one-half of a 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar; mix all very light in the snow; one 



— 45 — 

teaspoonful of vanilla. Dip your moulds in cold water before filling. 
Bake in a moderate heat about thirty minutes. As soon as baked, 
turn the mould upside down, but rest on one side, so the air can cir- 
culate under it. 

Jelly Cake. 

Cream together two pounds of sugar withi one pound of butter 
and lard; add slowly eight eggs, then one and three-fourth pints of 
milk, and lastly, three pound of flour with two ounces of baking 
powder. Grease the tins well and lay a small square piece of paper 
in the center. Fill half full and smooth on top. Bake quick and 
turn out at once on sugar dusted paper. Trim the edges a little, 
spread bottom layer with jelly, set another one on top; spread again, 
setting another layer on top. Frost with lemon icing, and draw 
thick lines through it with a jelly cornet; cut through crosswise, then 
with the back of a knife. Or you can spread the tops with jelly, 
laying a border of cocoanut around. 

Cocoanut Layer Cake. 

Set three layers together with cream frosting (see Part IX.), 
sprinkle each with cocoanut; frost the tops and sides also and sprinkle 
well with cocoanut; give the frosting a rich flavor of vanilla. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

Same as above, only fill and cover with chocolate frosting. 
Draw a few cross lines in white frosting over the chocolate, and run 
through crosswise with the back of a knife; or lay a border of walnut 
halves over the top. 

White Mountain Cake. 

Bake thick layers with the following mixture: One and one-half 
pounds of sugar and twelve ounces of butter creamed together; add 
slowly the wites of twelve eggs, one pint of milk, and two pounds of 
flour with one and one-half ounces of baking powder; almond flavor. 
Set two layers together with jelly; cover well with light meringue; 
dust with cocoanut and set a minute in hot oven, to brown the top. 



— 46 — 

A.linoncl Cake. 

Cream well one-half pound of almond paste, three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar, the yolks of twelve eggs, and one egg. Beat the 
whites of twelve eggs very stiff; add half of it light under the above, 
then mix in ten ounces of sifted pastry flour, the rest of the egg 
whites and a little vanilla; mix carefully, and not too much. Bake 
in moderate heat, in large, round tin, lined with paper. Frost with 
vanilla water icing, very thin. 



47 — 



Golden Rules. 



Add egg coloring to butter or lard, if any is used. 

Seedless (Sultana) raisins are the best for large cakes. 

In summer wash your butter in ice water first; in winter soften 
a little in oven before using it. 

If the oven bakes from the bottom, set your tin on another pan 
first, with heavy papers between. 

Fruit for large cake should always be rubbed well with flour first. 
Keep eggs on ice, if whole or broken up. 

For large square cakes it is best to have a wooden frame made, 
which should be greased and paper-lined; set on level and cook in 
tin. This avoids crust on the sides of cakes. 

Grease all tins for loafcakes first, then line with paper, and for 
square cakes line the sides again, after the paper, with strips of card- 
board. This avoids all hard crust and waste. 



FOR NOTES AND RBCIPBSo 



PART V. 



Small Cal<es, Cookies, Cup Cal<es, 
Drop Calces, etc. 



Sugar Cookies. 

Mix together four pounds of sugar, two pounds of lard, eight or 
nine eggs, one quart of milk, one-half pint of water, one and one- 
half ounces of ammonia, one-fourth of an ounce of soda, a little mace 
or nutmeg. Then add eight and one-half pounds of pastry flour, 
roll out one-fourth of an inch thick, wash over the top after it is cut 
out, dip in granulated sugar. Bake hot at 400 degrees. 

Shrewsbury Cakes. 

One pound of butter, three-fourths of a pound of sugar, one and 
three-fourth pounds of flour, mace and cinnamon; rub all together dry. 
Then add four eggs (yolks of eight eggs are better), one tablespoonful 
of cream or milk; mix all very light together, and if possible, let it 
rest on ice for some time. Roll out like cookies, press the top with 
a fork and wash. Mix one egg, one spoonful of milk, one-half tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one-half spoonful of salt. Different shapes can be 
given to the mixtures. Bake hot. 

Seed Cakes. 

Use recipe for sugar cookies as above, or this: One pound of 
sugar, ten ounces of butter and lard, one ounce of ammonia, seven 
eggs, one pint of milk, mace, caraway seeds, four pounds of pastry 
flour. Roll out one-fourth of an inch thick, cut out with a scalloped 
. cutter, wash with milk or egg wash, sprinkle with caraway seed, or 
lay one large raisin in center. 

(49) 



— 50 — 
Jumbles or Drops. 



Cream together one and one-half pounds of powdered sugar, 
three-fourths of a pound of butter and lard; then add slowly nine 
eggs, then one pint of milk, in which dissolve three-fourths of an 
ounce of ammonia, then three pounds of pastry flour, and lemon 
extract. Bake on ungreased tins, dropping them with your hand, the 
size of a dollar for drops. For jumbles, frost them after they are 
baked. 

Jelly lingers. 

Mixture is the same as for drops. Lay out like lady fingers on 
ungreased tins; dust with powdered sugar; bake hot; cut loose as 
soon as done. When cold set together with jelly. . 

Jelly Diamonds. 

One pound of butter and lard; rub with one and one-half pounds 
of sugar, one pint of eggs, one and one-fourth pints of milk, egg col- 
oring two pounds of flour and one ounce of baking powder; flavor 
with vanilla. Bake hot in flat sheet and cut in two, set together with 
jelly. Frost on top with vanilla icing and ornament with jelly. 

JVew Year Calces. 

Two and one-fourth pounds of sugar, one and one-fourth pounds 
of butter and lard, one and one-fourth pints of water one-half of an 
ounce of ammonia, one-fifth of an ounce of soda, five and three. 
fourth pounds of flour; mix like sugar cakes. Bake hot. They can 
be rolled out and cut with different shaped cutters or pressed infancy 
moulds. Wash with same wash as lemon snaps. 

Drop Cakeso 

Two and one-fourth pounds of sugar, one and one-fourth pounds 
of butter and lard, thirteen eggs; rub to cream; add one quart of mdk 
rshort measure), one ounce of ammonia, four and one-fourth pounds 
of "vanma flavor. Bake on flour-dusted, lightly greased tms. 
Sprinkle with currants. 



— 51 — 

Improved JVeiv Year Cakes. 

Two and one-fourth pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, one- 
half of an ounce of ammonia, a pinch of soda, one pint of water (good 
measure), six and one-fourth pounds of flour; lemon flavor. Mix and 
bake as above. 

Sponge Biscuits. 

One and one-half pounds of powdered sugar beaten up with 
fifteen eggs and one-half of an ounce of soda; vanilla; then add 
two and one-fourth pounds of pastry flour with one ounce of cream 
of tartar. Drop on lightly greased flour-dusted tins. Bake in a 
moderate heat; cut loose at once; ice on bottom. 

Fanoy Cup Cakes. 

Cream together one and one-fourth pounds of sugar, nine ounces 
of butter and lard, seven eggs, and egg coloring; add one pint of milk 
with one-half of an ounce of ammonia, then two and one-fourth 
pounds of flour; grease little scalloped moulds very lightly, half fill, 
sprinkle with currants and bake hot, at 400 degrees. 

Cup Cakes, 

Same mixture as above, only grease plain cups better, and warm 
them before filling; frost with vanilla frosting. 

Extra Cup Cakes* 

Cream together one pound of butter and lard with two pounds of 
sugar, eight eggs, one and three-fourth pints of milk, vanilla, three 
and one-fourth pounds of flour with two ounces of baking powder. 

Pound Cup Cakeso 

Cream one pound of sugar with six ounces of butter; add six 
eggs, one at a time; one-third of a pint of milk; mix in lightly one 
and one-fourth pounds of pastry flour with one heaping teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Grease and warm large cup cake tins and fill 
them half full. Bake medium hot. Ice on bottom and sides with 
boiled cream frosting; flavor with lemon juice only. 



— 52 — 
Roclc Calces. 



Two pounds of sugar, four pounds of flour, and two pounds of 
, a A hnttor- mix up dry. Dissolve one-half of an ounce ot 
rnrol ^"half pints of milk and * W^J* 
,emon; mix all well and roll in long stnps one mch t h«* ut 
small pieces, lay out on tins, press down w,t .fork mix some 
currants also; wash like lemon snaps. Bake at 400 degrees. 



Extra Lemon Snaps. 



Two and one-half pounds of sugar and two and «*"-£££ 
pounds of pastry flour, rub dry with eighteen ounces of -he«r 
mix together one pint of eggs egg colormg one « » 
ammonia, one teaspoonful of lemon extract. Bake at 34 
degrees. 

Lemon Snaps, Crisp. 
Mix three pounds of powdered sugar, one pound of butter one- 
fourth of a pound of lard, two ounces of baking powder four and one- 
Xounos'of flour; then add ten yolks or four eggs, three-four hso 

&£• -rss sssr £ set - 

Bake at 370 degrees on ungreased tins. 

Orange Crescents. 

Line a shallow tin with paper and fill fourths o^indh 
thick with the following mixture: One-half of a pound of butter and 
a d ttoe-fourths of a pound of sugar; add slowly five eggs, one- 
tod ofTpint of milk, the juice and peel of one orange; then one 
po nd of flour with one-half ounce of baking powder. Bake m 
medium heat, then turn out on sugared paper. When cold tee on 
bottom with orange, and cut with plain round cutter m half moon 
shane Dip vour cutter in water occasionally. Th.s is a very 
viable recipe, as it never fails; you can bake it very qutckly, or 



slower, if thick. 



— 53 — 
Chocolate Diamonds. 

Take the preceding sheet, ice with chocolate while warm, cut in 
diamonds and on top of each set one silver dragee. 

Fried Cakes. 

Stir together eight eggs, one and one-half pounds of sugar, one- 
fourth of a pound of butter; then add one quart of milk, salt, mace, 
and four and one-half pounds of pastry flour with two ounces of 
baking powder; mix light, so it will not be tough. Have the grease 
hot before you cut them out, and turn them over before they com- 
mence to break on top. 

Doughnuts or Crullers. 

Five eggs, twenty ounces of sugar, one and one-fourth quarts of 
milk, one-fourth of a pound of butter, salt, mace or vanilla flavor; then 
add four pounds of pastry flour with two ounces of baking powder. 
Roll out the same as for fried cakes, cut out with cruller cutter, and 
pull the right upper corner through the second cut. Bake at once. 
When cold, roll in powdered sugar, cornstarch and cinnamon mixed. 
If you want to use sour milk, use one-half ounce of soda in the milk, 
and one ounce of cream of tartar in the flour. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

Dissolve one ounce of yeast in one and one-half quarts of warm 
milk; add three-fourths of a pound of sugar, three ounces of butter, 
four eggs or ten yolks, salt, mace, mix with enough flour to make 
medium soft dough (half pastry and half spring wheat flour); set away 
to raise. Push down well; let rest a short time and roll out one-third 
of an inch thick, cut with fried cake cutter; let lay a minute and fry hot. 

Christmas Mixture. 

Mix together two pounds of granulated and light brown sugar, 
eighteen ounces of butter, one quart of milk, with one teaspoonful of 
ammonia and three pounds of flour; make a dough like sugar cakes; 
cut in different shapes. 



— 5i — 

Jelly Doughnuts (Bismarks). 

The same dough as Raised Doughnuts. Break and roll up like 
biscuits, only smaller; let raise some, then flatten, lay in the center a 
teaspoonful of jam or hard jelly. Pull the dough from all sides over 
the top; set on a cloth dusted with flour and cover up well in a warm 
place. When raised to over double their size, pick up carefully, and 
fry slowly on both sides. 

Cocoanut Wafers. 

Three pounds of sugar, one and one-half pounds of butter, one- 
half pound of lard, ten eggs; mix together; flavor with vanilla. Dis- 
solve one ounce of ammonia in one pint of milk and add to the above; 
also six pounds of pastry flour, salt, and one-half pound of grated 
cocoanut. Roll out like sugar cookies; wash with egg, dip in cocoa- 
nut and bake like sugar cakes. If too stiff, add a little more milk. 

Sprin ger-le . 

Beat up well three pounds of powdered sugar with fourteen eggs; 
add two ounces of anise seed, one-half of an ounce of ammonia, and 
four pounds of flour; mix very light. First leave out some flour, as 
sometimes it does not take all of four pounds. Roll out one-half of 
an inch thick, cut in small sheets, and press them well into the 
moulds. Then cut them apart with a sharp knife and set on boards 
to dry. Dust the boards lightly with anise seed. If you want to have 
them stand over night before baking, do not set them so warm. If 
the bottom is very dry, wet the edges a little with wet ringers. Set 
on lightly greased tins; bake in cool oven. 

Springei'le. ^Vo. 2. 

Stir three pounds of sugar well with the yolks of sixteen eggs, 
four whole eggs, one-half of an ounce of ammonia. Then beat the 
whites of sixteen eggs to a stiff froth and add alternately with four 
pounds of cake flour to above. Proceed as above. This is a very 
fine mixture, but must be treated carefully. 



55 



General Rules. 



Cream of tartar should always be mixed with flour; soda with milk. 

Where cream of tartar and soda are used, take two-thirds cream 
of tartar and one-third soda. 

For cookies always use pastry flour. If you have to use bread 
flour, take two ounces less and a little more soda or ammonia. 

To have cup cakes even and smooth on top, grease the cups well 
and heat first; if you want them to spring up in center, grease very 
lightly and do not warm. 

For all cookies and snaps you can use desiccated eggfood in place 
of fresh eggs. To equal five eggs use one ounce of eggfood and 
dissolve in one-half of a pint of milk. 

Soft ' 'A" or light brown sugar is very good for cookies, because 
they do not dry out so quick. If you have old cream, custard, 
whipped cream, etc., left over, it can be used to best advantage in 
lemon and sugar cookies, spice cakes, etc. 



FOR x\Or£S A.NU RBC1PB3. 



PART VI. 



/Vlacaroons, Kisses, Fanc\) Cal<es, Etc. 



Almond Afaearoons. 

One pound of almond paste, one pound of powdered sugar; mix 
smooth with the whites of four or five eggs; add a little vanilla and three 
ounces of granulated sugar, one-half of an egg shell full of water. 
When smooth and light, drop with bag and tube on paper. Bake in 
a moderate oven, about 350 degrees. Do not have the mixture too 
soft, so they run flat. Throw a small handful of granulated sugar 
over each sheet before you put in oven. 

Parisian Macaroons. 

One pound of almond paste, one pound of powdered sugar, the 
whites of five or six eggs and a little vanilla; one ounce of flour may 
be added. Lay out on paper and stick on top of each three split 
half almonds. Let stand one-half hour and bake. While hot, brush 
over with heavy syrup. 

European A.lmo'nd Alcujaroons. 

One pound of blanched almonds, pounded fine or ground in a 
stone mortar, adding egg white enough to make soft; mix in it two 
pounds of fine sugar, and a little water if the almonds are very dry. 

Home-made JK£acai°oons. 

Pound fine one pound of blanched almonds in a mortar; from 
time to time add powdered sugar and sift until one and one-half 
pounds have been used. Add one-half pound of granulated sugar 
mixed with enough white of egg to make a paste. Beat well, adding 
a few drops of water and vanilla or lemon. Proceed as above. 

( 57 ) 



Princess Macaroons. 

From Parisian mixture make macaroons, some in oblong shape 
and some round. As soon as done, dip a round or oblong stick in flour 
and press down in center of each macaroon near to the bottom. Fill 
this in with any stiff frosting, putting on top a dot of different colored 
frosting. Put your frosting in strong paper cornet and warm a little 
so it will run out freely. 

Jelly Macaroons. 

Same as above, only fill with jelly or jam and cover them with 
water icing. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Mix one and one-half pounds of powdered sugar with one pound 
of shredded or grated cocoanut; beat the whites of nine eggs very stiff, 
adding ten drops of acetic acid. Then mix in the sugar by handfuls; 
add a little vanilla. Lay out with a spoon in little cakes on greased 
tins, and bake very slowly. 

Macaroon Souffle. 

Rub smoothly three-quarters of a pound of almond paste with two 
pounds of sugar and sufficient white of egg to thin it. Beat the 
remaining whites of eighteen eggs very stiff, and mix together. You 
may add one handful of flour. Bake on greased, flour-dusted pans. 

Almond Croquettes. 

Beat up one-half pound of sugar with three eggs, one grated 
lemon peel, one cup of chopped almonds and one pound of flour. 
Roll in long strips; bake in warm oven and ice with rose (pink). 

Macaroon Slices. 

Bake strips of Vienna tea cake or Shrewsbury cake two inches 
wide. Lay a border of stiff macaroon paste on each side with bag and 
tube; soften remainder of macaroon paste with yolk of egg and one 
handful of flour. Flavor with lemon and fill in the center of strips. 
When baked, frost thin with lemon water icing. 



— 59 — 
Leayes for Cen ter-Pieees. 

Pound fine four ounces of sugar with white of egg, adding six 
ounces of fine sugar and two ounces of flour, making it into a smooth 
paste. Almond paste may be used in place of the almonds. Bake 
on very clean tins, which are heated and rubbed lightly with beeswax 
or butter; then set to cool. Bake very quickly and as soon as border 
browns a little, take off the tins and bend them around a thick round 
stick or rolling pin. Have moulds of tin or pasteboard; on an oval 
piece of same draw leaf-shape pattern and have same cut out, leaving 
one-half inch border around the tin; lay this on the pan and spread on 
the mixture very thinly, then remove the mould and proceed further 
until pan is full. 

Cream Puffs. 

Use one pint of water with a little milk in it and eight ounces of 
lard; let it come to a boil, cook for two minutes, then stir into it four- 
teen ounces of sifted cake flour. When all is loosened from the pan 
and dry, remove from the fire. Stir in ten to twelve eggs, two at a 
time, and a little ammonia. Bake on ungreased pans, previously 
washed with egg. Bake rapid — 410 degrees. Cut open and fill with 
custard or whipped cream. (See Part IX.) 

Chocolate Eclairs. 

Proceed same as for cream puffs; lay out with bag and tube in 
the shape of large lady-fingers, keeping the dough a little stiffer. After 
filling them, frost over with chocolate. 

Champagne "Wafers. 

Mix together six ounces of powdered sugar, three ounces of 
pastry flour, three eggs and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat well 
and with flat spoon or brush lay out as thin as paper the size of a 
buckwheat cake on cooking tins. Have tins well cleaned, warmed 
and rubbed over with beeswax or good butter. Set in cold place until 
wanted, allowing grease to become hard on them. When com- 
mencing to brown, on the edges, lift up one corner, turn over and roll 
over a thin stick which has first been greased. 



— GO — 
Kisses. 

Beat very stiff the whites of eight eggs, adding one pound of 
powdered sugar — one handful at a time — and a little vanilla. Set 
with bag and tube on greased, flour-dusted tins in different shapes. 
Dust with sugar and bake in a cool oven. 

Cocoanut Kisses. 

Lay out the above mixture in rings and dust well with shredded 
cocoanut. 

Cream Kisses. 

Same mixture as above. After soaking a board .about one inch 
thick in water for one hour, drain it off a little; have your different- 
shaped kisses dusted on paper, place on the wet board and bake. 
Afterwards set together, placing back on top of oven to dry out well. 

Fruit Kisses. 

Same as above, except placing a piece of French fruit glace in 
one part before you put the two together. 

Spanish Kisses. 

In place of above fruit use French cherries soaked in sherry wine, 
but well drained off. All these kisses are so light and easy to prepare 
triat they can be mixed in fancy cake to great advantage in different 
shapes, but you will need a bag and different tubes for them. 

Spanish Meringue. 

Mixture as above. Divide in three parts, add rose and color one 
part pink, one part add chocolate and leave the other plain. Cut off 
by spoonfuls and work a little with spoon until it is a nice smooth 
shape; drop them about the size of an egg on tins greased and»dusted 
as above. 

F*a tien ees. 

Beat one pound of egg white half stiff. Stir into it two pounds of 
powdered sugar, one and one-half pounds of cake flour, one ounce of 
vanilla; with fine tube set on waxed tins; first let, dry on top, then 
bake slowly. 



— 61 — 
Vienna Lady Fingers. 

Beat the whites of fifteen eggs very stiff; add by handfuls one 
pound of powdered sugar; then the yolks of twelve eggs; and last, 
fourteen ounces of sifted pastry flour. Dust well with powdered 
sugar. Bake very hot, at 410 degrees. Flavor with lemon. When 
baked, turn upside down, wet the paper and stick two together as 
soon as softened. 

Lady Fingers. > 

Beat the whites of erdit eggs very stiff, and in the meantime stir 
up well the yolks of ten eggs and one-half of a pound of fine sugar; 
flavor with lemon; then add part of the snow; then one-half of a 
pound of pastry flour; then the rest of the snow; mix, only very 
light. Lay out, dust and bake as quick as possible, say 400 degrees. 

Sponge Drops. 

Beat well one pound of powdered sugar with twelve eggs; then 
set in hot water bath and beat until hot; take off and stir until cold 
again; mix with two egg shells full of water, one and one-fourth 
pounds of pastry flour and one ounce of baking powder; flavor with 
vanilla. Set two together with jelly. 

Vanilla Wafer Jumbles. 

Cream together one-half of a pound of powdered sugar, one-half 
of a pound of butter and two large eggs, add a little vanilla, and last 
nine ounces of pastry flour; grease the tins lightly, dust with flour. 
Lay out on pans with bag and star tube in rings. Bake like cookies. 

Chocolate Kisses. 

Beat stiff the whites of eight eggs and add one and one-half 
pounds of powdered sugar; then set on a slow fire, beat until warm 
and firm; then mix in lightly one-fourth of a pound of dissolved 
Baker's chocolate. Lay out on dusted tins with star tube in "S" 
shape, dust with white nonpareils or coarse granulated sugar. 



— 62 — 
Vienna Fancy Mixture. 

Eight eggs and one and one-half pounds of sugar beaten together 
in a kettle over a slow fire until just warm; add one and one-fourth 
pounds of cake flour and the peel of one lemon. Lay out in different 
shapes, fingers, rings, etc., but with fine tube and very small. Let 
dry in warm room to a good crust, then bake at 340 degrees. Dust 
some with cocoanut, some with coarse sugar or chopped almonds as 
soon as laid out. This is a very fine assortment. 

Vienna Almond. Drops, 

Same as above, only dust weVi with chopped blanched almonds, 
and bake without drying them. 

Anise Drops (Gateaux Anissette). 

Beat up together one pound of powdered sugar and eight eggs. 
Set on a slow fire until warmed through, but not too hot; beat until 
cold again; mix with one pound of pastry flour and one handful of 
anise seed. Lay out the same as above, but dry well, to get a crust 
on the top. Do not bake too warm. 

Vienna Tea Cakes. 

Wash one pound of butter in ice water and chop it fine with one 
and one-half pounds of pastry flour; mix well with one-half pound of 
powdered sugar, lemon and cinnamon; add five eggs or ten yolks; 
mix light or it will break; cut out with different shaped cutters and 
wash with eggs. Bake at 380 degrees. You can also frost the same. 

Snow /Jails. 

Beat one pint of egg white until stiff, and mix well one pound of 
powdered sugar, three-fourths of a pound of cake flour, one third of 
an ounce of cream of tartar, and stir into the snow very lightly; 
add a little vanilla. With bag and tube lay out on paper. Bake 
moderately warm; stick two together with cream frosting or jelly, 
then dip the whole cakes in cream frosting or marshmallow frosting. 



— G3 — 
Cinnamon Stars. 

Four ounces of finely pounded raw almonds, the whites of 
three eggs; mix to a stiff dough with sufficient powdered sugar and 
two spoonfuls of cinnamon; cut out with star. Bake slowly and 
frost on top. 

Jenny L,ind Slices. 

Spread a square layer of sponge cake or gold cake half or three- 
fourths of an inch thick, with jelly; beat the whites of seven eggs very 
stiff; mix very carefully with three-fourths of a pound of powdered 
sugar and a little vanilla. Cut the sheet of cake in strips two and 
one-half inches wide and lay them on flour-dusted paper. With bag 
and large tube lay strips over the jelly the whole length of the cake. 
Lay rows close together, then other rows over them, but not so wide, 
and continue until you have brought it to a point on top. Now dip 
a sharp knife in water, and cut in slices three inches long. Dust well 
with sugar and set in the oven to brown. You may brown them and 
cut in slices afterward if you prefer. 



— 64 — 



Golden Rules. 



The addition of a little granulated sugar makes macaroons crack 
better. 

The Vienna fancy mixture is a very good one and can be made 
up in many shapes. 

Almond paste is certainly a great help, and saves time and trouble 
in making macaroons. 

For all kisses and meringue work add first some sugar by hand- 
fuls to the well beaten eggs, then the rest of the sugar; add with large 
wooden spatula, mixing it very carefully. 

For kisses, and for all purposes when it is desired to beat them 
stiff, if the whites of eggs are kept on ice two or three days before 
using, the best results are obtained, as they beat up stiffer. 

For Boston cream puffs, you can easily dispense with two-thirds 
of the fresh eggs by using one and one-half ounces of dissolved desic- 
cated egg food instead. Take one and one-half ounces of egg food 
in a pint measure, add enough milk to make two-thirds of a pint 
and stir up well. Then add enough fresh eggs to fill a pint measure. 



FOR XOTES AAD RECIPES. 



EOR NOTES AA'D RECIPES. 



PA K.T VII 



/Vlolasses and Honc\J Cal(cs. 



In baking with molasses, baking soda or saleratus is used. There- 
fore it should be made a special point that only the very best, pure 
soda is used; and if a baker is not much of a judge, I would advise 
him to use that done up in packages, so as to get it pure. Poor soda 
makes cakes look green and taste like soap. Soda must be used with 
great care, as worse results are obtained from using too much than 
not enough. 

JKIolasses Ginger Bread. 

Mix together one quart of Porto Rico and New Orleans molasses, 
one and one-half pints water, one and one-half ounces soda, twelve 
ounces lard, two eggs, two handfuls brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
ginger, one-half spoonful cinnamon and enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Fill half-full with mixture a greased pan lined with paper, and 
bake about one hour in a medium-warm oven. 

English Currant Slices. 

Mix in a piece of the above dough English currants. Roll in 
long strips, lay on greased cooky tins and bake in a warmer oven 
than for the above. Press down flat, then frost with chocolate and 
cut in narrow slices. 

Scotch Fruit Drops. 

To the above mixture add one pound currants one-half pound 
citron (cut fine), one handful granulated sugar and a little more 
molasses. Drop in small cakes, flatten them somewhat, dust with 
granulated sugar and bake rapidly. 

(67) 



— 68 — 
Spioe Cup Calces. 

Three-quarters of a pound of crumbs, one and one-quarter quarts 
molasses, three-quarters of a pound of lard, one quart water, one and 
one-quarter ounces soda, two eggs, one pound currants; vanilla, lemon, 
cinnamon and allspice, with sufficient flour to keep in a soft dough. 
Use cup-cake moulds, having them well greased and warm, then fill 
half-full with mixture. Frost with chocolate. 

Common Spice Cup Cukes. 

From the above mixture omit the eggs and extracts; otherwise 
the same. 

Washington Sliees. 

Line a flat pan with pie crust and put in to the depth of one-half 
inch the mixture for spice cup cakes; bake in a medium-hot oven. 
Frost with water icing flavored with rum or lemon and cut in slices 
two by three inches. 

Molasses Pound Cake. 

Rub together three-quarters of a pound of lard and three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar and slowly add seven eggs (or one and one-half 
ounces of dissolved desiccated egg food); then mix together and add 
to this, one and one-half pints molasses, one-half pint milk and one 
and one-half ounces of soda; then add to the whole, three and one- 
half pounds of cake flour, two ounces ginger, one ounce cinnamon 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Bake medium — about 350 degrees. 

Alolasses Cookies. 

Use ten ounces lard, one pint milk, one quart New Orleans 
molasses, two ounces soda, a little cinnamon, one teaspoonful salt, 
four pounds of flour and a handful of granulated sugar. Wash with 
milk and cut out, having them a fair thickness. 

Ginger Cookies. 

Use one and one-quarter pounds lard, one quart milk, two quarts 
New Orleans molasses, one-half pound brown sugar, four ounces 
soda, cinnamon, four ounces ginger, one and one-half ounces salt and 
eight pounds of flour. Cut out thick and wash with milk. 



69 
Ginger' Nuts. 

One quart New Orleans molasses, one pint Porto Rico molasses, 
three-quarters pint of milk (sour if possible), one and one-quarter 
pounds lard, three-quarters pound granulated sugar, six pounds soft 
flour; ginger, cinnamon, salt and two and one-half ounces of soda. 
Make a soft dough and drop with hand or spoon on the tins. 

Brandy Snaps. 

Stir together one pint of molasses and twelve ounces of butter 
with one pound of brown sugar; add one pound of soft flour and one 
ounce of cinnamon. Break in pieces the size of walnuts; press flat a 
little and drop in cooky tins. Bake in three to five minutes, and roll 
at once over a round stick. 

French Ginger Nuts. 

One quart molasses, three eggs, one pint milk, one ounce soda, 
two and one-half pounds crumbs, one pound brown sugar, fourteen 
ounces lard and about four pounds of flour. Wash with egg-wash and 
dip in granulated or powdered sugar. 

Molasses Fruit Cakes. 

Beat up one pound of brown sugar and one and one-half pounds 
of butter and lard, and slowly add seven or eight eggs; then three 
pints of molasses and three pints of sour milk or water with two ounces 
of soda; then five to six pounds of soft flour, four pounds of currants, 
three pounds of seedless raisins and one pound of finely-cut citron; 
ginger, cinnamon and allspice. Bake at 350 to 360 degrees. 

Crumb or Spice Cookies. 

Two and one-half pounds sugar, three pounds cake crumbs, one 
and one-half pounds of lard, seven eggs (or one and one-half ounces of 
desiccated egg food) and one and one-half pints of molasses; cinna- 
mon, vanilla and lemon. Then dissolve three ounces of soda in one 
and one-half pints of milk or water, a little vinegar and five and one- 
half pounds of flour. Roll out thick as ginger cookies, dip in fine 
sugar and bake at 370 degrees. 



— 70 — 
Bolivars. 

Mix two quarts molasses, one and one-half quarts water, ten 
ounces lard, four ounces soda, some spices, about eight pounds flour 
and a little salt. Roll out one-quarter of an inch thick; bake in a 
rather warm oven. 

Berkshire Calces. 

One and one-half pints molasses, two ounces butter, one-half 
ounce soda, one-half cup milk; salt, ginger and sufficient flour to make 
dough stiff enough to roll out. Roll out one-quarter inch thick, lay 
the whole sheet upon a well-dusted pan, cut with large knife into 
finger shapes to be two and one-half by four inches in size after they 
are baked; break before they are cold; before baking, prick well with 
a fork. 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake. 

Rub together one-half pound of brown sugar and three-quarters 
of a pound of lard; add four eggs, then one and one-half pints 
molasses, one pint sour milk, one ounce soda, three to three and one- 
half pounds flour, two pounds currants, two pounds raisins, one-half 
pound sliced citron and two pounds of finely sliced apples. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One pound of granulated sugar, one pound of brown sugar, two 
and one-half quarts of New Orleans molasses and Porto Rico molasses 
mixed, one pint of water, two and one-half ounces of soda, one 
ounce of salt, three ounces of ginger, two ounces of cinnamon, one 
pound and fourteen ounces of lard, and last twelve and one-half 
pounds of soft flour and one-half ounce of ammonia. Work well 
and have it stiff. 

Cinnamon Wafers. 

Same as ginger snaps above, only leave out the ginger; take one 
ounce more of cinnamon, roll out thin and cut in fingers to be one 
and one-half by three inches after they are baked. Wash with milk 
before baking. 



— 71 — 
Money Cakes. 

Honey cakes are made to a great extent in Germany, for the 
holidays. Special kinds are identified as original in different cities 
and shipped to all countries; for instance, the delicious Niirnberger, 
the Thorner, and Basler honey cakes. The principal dough or stock 
is usually prepared in September or October and stored away in the 
cellar in tubs or barrels sawed in two; but as a general rule this first 
dough is only mixed with part of the rising ingredients, alum or 
potash, while ammonia or soda is added just before using it. 

Stoek for Honey Cakes. 

Twenty pounds of honey, ten pounds of molasses; boil up several 
times; strain through a sieve in a bowl or tub; with a little water, 
pound or grind very fine one-fourth of a pound of alum and add to 
the honey when luke warm. Then mix with enough soft cake flour 
to make a medium otiff dough. Set away in the cellar. 

German Honey Cakes and Hearts. 

Get ten pounds of above dough, into which work one ounce of 
ammonia, which has been ground and dissolved, with the yolks of 
two or three eggs. Work well or put under a dough break. First 
bake a sample at 360 degrees. Roll out one-third of an inch thick, 
wash with milk or glue water, or still better, desiccated egg food dis- 
solved. Prick the larger ones with a fork. 

American Spieed Honey Cake. 

Three pounds of boiled honey, one pound of molasses, one-half 
pound of sugar, one-half of a pound of lard, one ounce of ammonia, 
a little soda, one pint of milk, spices; add enough soft flour to 
make a dough like ginger cookies, and bake in the same way. 

American Honey Cakes. 

Three pounds of boiled honey, two pounds of sugar, one-half of 
a pound of lard, four eggs, three-fourths of a quart of milk, spices, 
one ounce of ammonia; add enough soft flour and one ounce of baking 
powder to make a dough like molasses cakes. 



— 72 — 
Thiclz Honey Cake. 

Grind fine one-half of an ounce of ammonia with the yolk of one 
egg] work well into ten pounds of stock dough; roll out one-half of 
an inch thick, prick well with a fork, wash with milk, and lay on top 
blanched almonds, split in halves. Bake on heavy pans, well dusted 
with common flour. Bake slowly and cut in square pieces. Add 
cinnamon and a little caraway to the dough. 

Hxii'iibei'irei' Leblcnchen. 

Stir up together well twenty-five eggs, two pounds of fine sugar, 
one-half of an ounce of ammonia, 'one-fourth of a pound of orange 
peel, one-fourth of a pound of almonds, one-half of 'a pound of 
citron, all chopped fine, and spices. Then mix in light, two and one- 
fourth to two and one-half pounds of pastry flour. With a palette 
knife lay out this dough on wafer sheets and cut in squares; lay on 
top of each a thin slice of citron. Bake medium warm. 

Swiss Honey Calces (Basler T,ec1<.er-le). 

Four pounds of honey (boiled), two pounds of brown sugar, one- 
half of a pound of orangeade, two pounds of citron, two pounds of 
sweet almonds (all chopped fine); nutmeg, spices, the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, one-half of an ounce of ammonia or three- 
fourths of an ounce of potash, one-half of an ounce of soda. Pour 
the honey over this; add one glass of rum or kirsch water, and make 
with enough pastry flour into medium dough. Bake in sheets one- 
fifth of an inch thick on strong tins, well dusted with flour. Bake 
quick and frost. [Frosting. — Boil three pounds of granulated sugar 
with one pint of water to the "thread." Rub with stiff brush a little 
at a time over the sheets, until it granulates or gets white.] Warm 
the sheets again and cut with a sharp knife in small tablets, about 
one and one-half inches by two and one-half inches long. Pack five 
in a glossy white paper, lay one on top and tie all together neatly 
with narrow red tape. 

Sutrax- Nuts (Hard Tacks). 

Two pounds of sugar, four eggs, the yolks of eight eggs, one- 
half of a pint of milk, one ounce of ammonia, lemon. Mix with 



— T6 — 

enough soft flour to make into a stiff dough. Cut out very small, 
round, but very thick. Bake at 370 degrees; afterwards you may 
throw all in boiled icing (conserve), and spread on a sieve to dry. 

Cobblestones (Pfeffemusse). 

Mix and bake, same as above, one pound of sugar, one pint of 
molasses, spices, one-half of an ounce of soda, one-half of an ounce 
of ammonia, ginger and cinnamon, one pint of milk or water, and 
enough soft flour to make a stiff dough. 



— 74 — 



Golden Rules. 



Spices are always best sifted into the flour. 

Soda, ammonia or potash should always be first dissolved fn 
water or milk. 

Always use the softest winter wheat flour. Some mills make a 
specialty of such flour. 

If you have very light colored molasses (New Orleans), always 
add part Porto Rico or sugar color. 

The quality of molasses is best tried by stirring up a little of it 
with a pinch of soda. If the molasses raises up at once and foams, 
and looks brown, and smells all right, it is good. If it looks green 
when mixed, it is generally of poor quality and will smell like soap. 



FOR A T OT£S A2V£> RECIPES. 



FOR A r Or£S AAD RECIPE So 



FART VIII 



yeast, 5 r ead, f^scuits, Coffee Calces, 
puffins, etc. 



Yeast is the first factor to be looked after in preparing fermented 
bread; therefore I will give a few suggestions and formulas relating 
to its preparation and use. Where home made yeast is made, almost 
every baker has his own formula, and knows just how it will work. 
But, as a rule, given a certain recipe for stock yeast, it is necessary 
to give the whole process of baking with it. With the astonishingly 
perfect system with which compressed yeast is now delivered and 
shipped fresh to any part of the country, there is hardly an excuse for 
not using it. To bake a perfect, sweet, flaky loaf of bread every 
season in the year and every day alike, requires considerably more 
technical skill and experience than if compressed yeast is used. For 
coffee cakes and other sweet bread baking, the old fashioned stock 
yeast is almost entirely out of date. 

Dry Stack Yeast, 

Over two ounces of sweet fresh hops pour seven quarts of boil- 
ing water. Let it stand a while, then add one more quart of water 
until all the strength seems boiled out of the hops, at which point 
they commence to settle down below the surface. Mix enough of 
this liquid with eighteen ounces of bread flour and one-fourth of a 
pound of corn meal, one-fourth of a pound of rice flour, two ounces 
of crushed malt, into a smooth paste. Then add the rest of the 
liquid, and set aside. When partly cooled off, add three or four 
handfuls of white sugar and one ounce of compressed yeast, or one 
pint of fresh, ready fermented yeast to start it. Set aside, where i 
will not be disturbed for at least twenty hours. Then strain and mix 

(77) 



— 78 — 

with sufficient flour into a stiff sponge. When well ripened, throw 
out on a bench dusted with corn meal, and roll or press out and cut 
in small, thick cakes, which are then dried in the fresh air, in a shady 
place. When thoroughly dry, pack away for future use. Keep away 
from heat and dampness. This is now used as mother yeast to start 
fresh ferment or new stock. One ounce to each gallon is sufficient 
in warm weather; in winter one and one half ounces may be needed. 

The Ferment. 

Wash about two quarts (six pounds) of potatoes, and boil them 
soft, with plenty of water to cover them well. In a very clean tub 
place the boiled potatoes, add one and one-half pounds of white flour, 
one handful of corn meal, and mash up fine with the potatoes. Add a 
little at a time of the boiling hot potato water. Let both now cool 
a little more, then add all the liquid from the potatoes and enough 
water to make about four gallons in all. When blood warm in 
winter or luke warm in summer, add three and one-half to five 
ounces of dry stock yeast (or two and one-half ounces of fresh com- 
pressed yeast). Set away in quiet place, not too warm, where it will 
not be shaken up or disturbed for about eight hours. In very hot 
days, you may cool it down first, with a piece of ice. If it is ready, 
you will notice on the side of the tub that it had risen some inches 
and fallen back again. If you cannot notice that, it is not ready yet. 
Then strain and set into the sponge with sufficient flour, not too stiff. 
This sponge does not need to rise the second time, like compressed 
yeast sponge. Take as soon as it has fallen once. 

Flour for Bread. 

It is certainly a poor investment to buy cheap flour for bread 
baking. Nearly all brands of bread flour, made from healthy, straight, 
hard spring wheat, are controlled by about the same market price; 
and if any flour is offered below these figures, you should be careful 
and have it thoroughly tested before laying in a stock of it. While 
the strongest flour takes the most water, it is cheapest even if higher 
in price. But for home made bread, milk bread, etc., it is advisable 
to mix it with one-fourth to one-third of winter wheat flour (pastry). 
Do not buy a mixed flour, as it will cost you more than if you mix it 



— 79 — 

yourself. To test your flour, put a handful on a clean pasteboard, 
take a dry, smooth knife, and slide over the flour, pressing it down 
solid. If the knife is free from any particles, and the flour is smooth 
and does not show any dark streaks in it, it is all right for a good 
spring patent; still it should have a granulated appearance, not too 
much like powder. Compare different brands in this way, and you 
will understand it. 

Flour should never have a reddish or dark look when examined 
in the light, unless it is common flour which you have bought cheap 
for molasses work. It is also a mistake to set sponge or .dough with 
one kind of flour as you would with another. If you have a good, 
straight, patent flour, one cake of compressed yeast is sufficient for 
three quarts of flour in summer, or two quarts in winter; but if you 
have to use up cheap, poor flour, always set sponge first and do not 
set too warm. 

Home Made Bread (Without Sponge). 

In warm weather set your dough at nine o'clock in the evening, 
and in cold weather set it two hours earlier. Dissolve three to four 
ounces of compressed yeast in three quarts of warm milk, then add 
ten quarts of water, one-fourth of a pound of salt, six ounces of 
sugar, four ounces of lard, a little butter, and sufficient flour to make 
a stiff dough. In the morning cut up in pieces, and after greasing 
your hands with lard, mould up round; let it rest a little while and 
then mould over into long loaves to fit the tins. Do not let it raise 
too much, and bake about thirty minutes. 

Cottage Bread. 

Set warm sponge with four ounces of yeast and ten quarts of 
water (in winter five ounces of yeast). Set softer than ordinary 
sponge; let it raise the second time, which should not take more than 
three hours. Then add four quarts of warm milk, two quarts of water, 
one-half pound of sugar, six ounces of salt, one-half pound of lard, a 
little butter and sufficient flour to work soft; let it raise well, in sum- 
mer about one and one-half hours, in winter two hours; the bench 
should be greased before using; then proceed as above. This makes 
a very fine round loaf of bread. 



— 80 — 

Vienna Bread. 

Prepare as second recipe for bread, only use the following formula: 
One-half of a pound of yeast, six quarts of milk for dough, three- 
fourths of a pound of lard, no sugar. Let the dough stand one hour; 
roll out about fourteen inches in length; point both ends; set in cloth, 
each separate, well dusted; wash before baking; cut three times 
across. Bake on bottom of oven, or, if you have to bake on pans, 
dust them first with corn meal and heat them. 

French Sticks (without Sponge). 

Same as the first bread dough, only leave tne sugar out. Mould 
up in long sticks; lay each separate on a cloth; bake on bottom or 
tile; wash first and cut crosswise. 

Milk Bread. 

To cottage dough add more milk, a little extra sugar; mould up, 
not too old; set on dusted cooky tins and cover over with a square 
bread pan, in bottom of which holes are punched. This bread will 
not get a hard crust. 

Graham Bread (without Sponge). 

Three ounces of compressed yeast, seven quarts of luke warm 
water, one and one-half pints of the darkest Porto Rico molasses, three 
ounces of salt, three and one-half pounds of graham flour, and 
sufficient wheat flour to make medium dough. Let it stand over 
night; in the morning throw it on the board, cut in pieces and mould 
up at once. Let it raise well in the tins and bake slow. 

Graham Bread (with Sponge). 

Take two quarts of sponge from the cottage bread, add one quart 
of warm water, one-half pint of dark Porto Rico molasses, three 
ounces of salt, two quarts of graham flour, and enough wheat flour to 
make a soft dough. Let it stand about two hours. Mould and bake 
as above. 



— 81 — 
Boston Brown Bread with yeast. 

One pint of corn meal, one-half of a pint of rye meal, one-half of 
a pint of graham flour, one-half of a pint of wheat flour; mix all with 
one teaspoonful of salt. Dissolve one yeast cake with one-half of a 
cup of molasses and one quart of buttermilk or sour milk and one- 
half of a teaspoonful of soda. If fresh milk is used, take a little more 
yeast and no soda; mix all well, and if too stiff add a little water. 
Make no stiffer than corn muffins; put in well greased, deep tins, 
with cover; do not fill them half full. Set in a pan with one and one- 
half inches of water, so as to steam or boil from bottom, or bake in a 
steamer. Bake three or four hours in a medium oven; after two 
hours cool down the oven to 360 degrees. 

Boston Brown Bread with Baking Powder. 

Ingredients are the same as above, only use in place of the yeast 
two tablespoonfuls of good baking powder. 

American Rye Bread. 

American bakers generally use the same formula as for the gra- 
ham bread, only they take rye flour in place of graham. German 
bakers make a separate dough and bake it like Vienna bread. 

French Rolls. 

In the evening set a stiff dough of three ounces of compressed 
yeast, four quarts of luke warm milk, three quarts of water, two 
ounces of salt, two ounces of sugar, four ounces of lard, four ounces 
of butter and sufficient flour (not too strong). In the morning, push 
down the dough, break off a little smaller than biscuits, roll up, let it 
spring a little, then press down well in center with a thin rolling pin, 
wash with a little melted butter, and double over. Set to raise and 
bake hot; 400 degrees. 

Raised Biscuits. 

You can take either of the bread doughs; add a li.tle extra milk 
and lard or butter, and roll up round. 



— 82 — 

Finger Rolls or I^ady Washington Rolls. 

Dissolve two ounces of compressed yeast in two quarts of warm 
milk; add one-half of a pound of lard and butter, six ounces of sugar, 
two and one-half ounces of salt, another quart of milk, one quart of 
water, and sufficient flour (mixed) to make medium dough. Work 
well and set to raise about two and one-half hours, in a warm place. 
Break off in small pieces, mould up round and cover over to let them 
raise some. Then mould over in finger-shape and set close together 
on greased tins, until light; wash with egg, and bake. 

Par-leer' House Rolls. 

Dissolve three ounces of compressed yeast with two quarts of 
milk; add two ounces of sugar, one ounce of salt, four ounces of 
butter, two ounces of lard, four eggs or ten yolks, and enough flour 
to make medium dough; wash well; let raise two hours, push down 
and set away another hour; make up in shape to suit yourself, let it 
raise, wash with egg, and bake quickly. 

Tea Biseuits. 

Three and one-fourth pounds of flour, three ounces of baking 
powder, one and one-half ounces of salt, all sifted together; rub dry 
six ounces of lard in the flour and mix with one and one-fourth quarts 
of milk into a light dough. Roll out at once one-half of an inch 
thick, cut out, set close together, wash with milk; first prick with a 
fork, and bake hot; 400 degrees. 

Newport Rolls. 

Same as tea biscuits, only add two ounces of butter, roll a little 
thinner, cut out, wash with butter and double over like French rolls; 
let stand a few minutes, wash with egg and bake. 

Graham Gems. 

Break like biscuits from either of the graham bread doughs. 
Roll up like biscuits, set to raise in gem tins and do not bake too hot. 



— 83 — 

Corn Muffins. 

Grease and heat well deep gem tins and fill over half full of this 
mixture: Six ounces of cornmeal, four ounces of sugar, four ounces 
of lard, four eggs; mix all light; add one pint of milk and eighteen 
ounces of pastry flour with one and one-half ounces of baking powder, 
one ounce of salt. If too stiff add a little more milk. Bake hot. 

Johnny Cake. 

The same mixture as above, only add two ounces more of sugar 
and two ounces of butter and bake in long, flat tins. 

Buokwheat Cakes. 

Dissolve one-half of a yeast cake in one-half of a cup of warm 
water; add one quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, a little corn- 
meal, a handful of wheat flour, and enough buckwheat flour to make 
a stiff batter. Set away over night. In the morning stir up well, 
add a little molasses and bake on hot griddle. If too stiff, add a little 
milk and a little sugar. 

English Wheat Muffins. 

Mix one yeast cake in one-half of a cup of warm water, one cup 
of milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, a little salt, enough flour to make a stiff batter; let it raise, 
then add three eggs; beat all well; fill in muffin rings. Bake hot. 

Wheat Cakes. 

Beat up well, two eggs, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one-half of a cup of milk, and stir again. Mix 
with sufficient flour and one teaspoonful of baking powder to make 
into a soft batter; grease the griddle well, and bake quickly. This 
seems to be very rich, but they can be poured out thinner and make 
more cakes. 

Waffles. 

Set over night one-half of a yeast cake in one-half of a cup of 
hike warm milk, with enough pastry flour and one pint of milk to 
make a stiff batter. In the morning add three or four eggs beaten 
up well, a handful of sugar, and a little salt to the batter. Beat well 
and bake in hot waffle irons; a little nutmeg to flavor. 



— 84 — 
Coffee Calces. J. 

Set soft sponge with seven ounces of yeast, three quarts of warm 
milk, one quart of water, and enough flour. Beat up well, set in warm 
place to raise. When it breaks, add three-fourths of a pound of 
butter and lard, one and one-half pounds of sugar, eight to ten eggs 
(one pint of egg yolks is best), lemon and mace, two ounces of salt, 
and three pints more of milk. Work well and smooth, but not too 
stiff. Let raise >one or two hours, push down and mould up in 
different shapes. 

Buns. 

Roll up like biscuit, press flat, dip in coarse sugar, set to raise, 
bake medium warm. (The eggs may be omitted if desired.) 

Currant Buns. 

The same as above, only roll out a piece about ten inches wide, 
sprinkle with currants and cinnamon, double over from both sides, 
cut with scraper in finger shape, set the cut side up, close together; 
let raise, bake warm, and frost thick with vanilla icing. 

Not Cross Buns. 

The same dough as for buns, only when half raised press each 
down crosswise with same cutter and wash with butter and dip in 
sugar, or ice them after they are baked. 

Cinnamon Calce. 

Same dough as above. Take about one pound of the dough and 
roll out eight by ten inches; wash with butter; dust well with cinna- 
mon and fine sugar. 

Streussel Iiuohen. 

Same as above, only cover well with the following mixture: One 
pound of cake flour, one spoonful of cinnamon, one-half pound of 
fine sugar; add five ounces of good melted butter, rub together well 
and press through coarse sieve. 



— 85 — 
Coffee Cake Dough. II. 

In six quarts of milk and two quarts of water dissolve seven to 
eight ounces of compressed yeast, one pound of fine sugar, lemon 
and mace, one and one-half ounces of salt; mix with enough mixed 
flour to make into a soft dough, beat well and set to raise. Mean- 
while cream one and one-fourth pounds of butter with two pounds of 
sugar; add one pint of eggs (or one pint of yolks is best); add slowly 
the other dough, beating well. If too soft, add more flour, but do 
not make too stiff. Let raise again. 

Turk Heads. 

Weigh off the above in pieces about fourteen ounces, mix in 
some raisins, and lay in well buttered Turk-head tins. You may 
sprinkle some sliced blanched almonds in the bottom of the moulds 
first. 

Coffee Wreaths. 

From the above dough cut even pieces, roll out in long and thin 
strips, braid three together and form into a round wreath. Set to 
raise; wash with egg; bake hot and ice with thick vanilla icing. 

Zwieback. 

Roll out the above dough like small fingers; set close together; do 
not let it raise too much; bake light; let stand one day, then cut each 
biscuit in two with a sharp knife, roast well brown on both sides, and 
dip in cinnamon or vanilla sugar. 

Jelly Doughnuts (Bismarks). 

Set to raise a soft sponge with two ounces of yeast, one pint of 
milk, and enough flour. As soon as it breaks, add four to five eggs, 
one-fourth of a pound of lard or butter, one-half of a pound of sugar, 
lemon and mace, one pint of warm milk and sufficient flour to make 
a soft dough; beat well and set to raise; push down; let raise again, 
then dust bench well with flour; break in small biscuits, roll them up, 
let raise a little, press flat; lay in center of each some stiff jelly (or 
better, jam or marmalade); pull up from the sides over the jelly, and 



- 86 - 

pinch together well. Set on a cloth well dusted with flour, the 
pinched side on bottom, cover over and let them raise well. Bake in 
hot grease, slower than fried cakes. Roll, when cool, in cinnamon 
sugar. 

French Crullers. 

Boil one pint of milk and water with six ounces of lard for two 
minutes; then add quickly fourteen ounces of pastry flour, let it stand 
five minutes, then mix in slowly ten to twelve eggs one handful of 
sugar, vanilla, and a little salt. Keep dough just like eclairs; fill in 
bag with star tube. Run out on greased paper in rings. Lay the 
paper with rings on the bottom in your hot grease, until all the rings 
are loosened. Bake slow, and well through. Dust with sugar and 
serve with sauce or syrup. 



— 87 — 



General Rules. 



Keep yeast always in cool, dry place. 

One teaspoonful of salt is enough to each quart of flour. 

For all coffee cakes take one-third of cake flour, what is called 
blended flour. 

If you have little pieces of dough left over, cover with cold water, 
and use the next day for sour- dough in rye bread. 

For all coffee cakes desiccated egg food can be substituted for 
fresh eggs satisfactorily. Use one ounce for every five eggs. 

Bread rolls or biscuits, if washed with butter immediately after 
baking, will shine nicely and will be softer than if not washed. 

Common buns and coffee cakes can also be made from bread 
dough. Add some sugar and butter, and work well. Let rest awhile; 
add some coloring, cinnamon and lemon or vanilla. 

If you want to keep compressed yeast fresh for a long time, put 
it in a glass or stone jar and fill with water. When you want to use 
some, pour off the water slowly, take out what yeast you need, and 
pour fresh water over the rest. 



FOR AOTBS AA T D RECIFES, 



PART IX 



Icings, Fillings, Fanc\) Calces, 
Colors, etc. 



Water Icing. 

XXXX confectioner's sugar is the best sugar for icings. Although 
a trifle higher in price it makes a cheaper frosting because it takes up 
more water. Plain water icing is made simply by mixing enough 
sifted powdered sugar with cold water, adding flavor as desired. 
After cakes are iced, set in the oven a few seconds by the open door. 
Another method of making water icing is to use boiling hot water in 
place of cold water, and do not set in the oven to dry. 

American Vanilla Cream Frosting;. 

Mix one pound XXXX powdered sugar with egg white and four to 
five drops acetic acid or half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Beat 
light, then add one more pound of sugar and sufficient boiling water 
to thin it as desired; one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Walnut Frosting. 

To above icing add one-half pint of walnut meats chopped fine. 

JSIarshmallow Filling. I. 

Take four and one-half pounds of granulated sugar and one 
quart of water; dissolve over a good fire, then add one-half of a 
pound of glucose and boil to a very light ball (242 degrees). In the 
meantime beat one pint of egg white very stiff and then pour in the 

(89) 



— 90 — 

sugar in a light stream, still beating. Then pour in one-half of a 
pound of dissolved gum arabic (a thin solution) or gum Senegal, and 
two ounces of vanilla. Keep on beating a little while longer. If a 
large mixture, set in hot water bath, so it will not get too stiff before 
it is all used. You can flavor and color to taste. 

Marshmallow Filling. II. 

One-half of a pound of gum arabic or Senegal dissolved in a good 
pint of water, strain in a kettle and add one-half of a pound of XXXX 
loaf sugar; set on a slow fire, stir until reduced and thick. Beat up 
stiff in a bowl two ounces of white egg food dissolved in one pint of 
warm water, with enough powdered sugar and one-half of an ounce 
of cream of tartar; add the gum syrup slowly and a little plain syrup 
if still too stiff. Flavor with neroli oil, which is the right flavor for 
marshmallow. If you have no egg food, take one pint fresh egg white. 

Boiled Chocolate Frosting. 

One and a half pounds of sugar and one pint of water set on a 
moderate fire. Dissolve four ounces of baker's chocolate and stir in 
the syrup. Let boil until to a thread (236 degrees); wash down on 
the sides, and stir occasionally. Then sprinkle with a little cold 
water, and boil again to the thread. Then take off the fire. Rub 
with the spatula against the sides of the kettle until it commences to 
turn light and creamy. Take up more sugar, and so continue, until 
all is turned lighter. Let it stand a minute, and as soon as there 
forms a light crust on top, it is done. Stir through once more and 
use at once. Set the frosted goods in the oven for a second. 

A.meriemi Choeolate Frosting. 

Mix two pounds of powdered sugar with sufficient hot water to 
make it the desired consistency. Meantime dissolve five ounces of 
chocolate, cut up fine, with two ounces of butter, in the oven. Stir 
until it is all smooth, and let it run slowly into the other sugar. 
Keep stirring it; add warm water and a little vanilla. This frosting 
can be kept in a cool place a good while, only warm it up well 
before using. 



— 91 — 
Fondant for Frosting. 

Boil five pounds of granulated sugar, one pound of glucose and 
one quart of water to a light ball (242 degrees). As soon as it com- 
mences to boil, wash down on the sides, and cover. Do not let it 
boil too slowly. Then sprinkle your marble slab with ice water, and 
pour the syrup on it. When partly cooled off, work with large 
wooden spatula until it is all creamed and hard. Have a clean tub 
ready, throw the> fondant in and pound it down solid until it is all 
smooth; cover over with a wet cloth. Before using melt it on stove 
or in hot water bath, adding a little plain syrup, and flavor to taste. 

Coffee Icing. 

Boil four ounces of best Java coffee, ground, with one pint of 
water down to half a pint, keeping it covered. Then strain and add 
two tablespoonfuls burned sugar color and three pounds of fondant. 
Stir over the fire until soft and smooth. Use at once. 

Pistachio Icing. 

Peel one ounce of pistachio nuts and pound them to a paste in a 
stone mortar; mix with fondant and melt. 

Rose, Almond or Strawberry Icing. 

Dissolve fondant over a fire with a little syrup, the proper extract 
to flavor, and coloring. Or mix XXXX confectioner's sugar with hot 
water, and add flavor and coloring. 

Lemon Frosting. 

A very fine frosting for sponge cakes and cup cakes is made by 
adding the juice of one or two lemons to fondant or water icing. 

Gelatine Icing. 

Dissolve one ounce of good gelatine in one pint of water, mix 
with four pounds of confectioner's powdered sugar, and beat up like 
meringue with an egg beater; add vanilla or lemon. 



— 92 — 
-Berg" Food Ioing. 

Dissolve four ounces white egg food in a pint of warm water, 
add a pint of cold water, sufficient powdered confectioner's sugar, and 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Beat up well with spatula, and 
flavor. This keeps softer than the regular egg frosting. 

Royal Icing. 

For decorating. Beat up the whites of three eggs with sufficient 
XXXX confectioner's sugar and eight drops of acetic acid and a little 
bluing. Have everything — bow], spatula, etc., perfectly clean. 

Boiled Frosting for Honey Cakes,. 

Boil six pounds of granulated sugar with one quart of water to a 
thread (236 degrees). Rub with stiff brush over the top of the cakes, 
commencing on one corner, dipping the end of brush in the sugar, 
but do not disturb sugar in the kettle more than necessary, so it will 
not die off too soon. Rub hard and quick over the cakes, until it 
creams. 

Cream for Filling. 

Bring two quarts of milk to a boil with five ounces of sugar. 
Stir into this quickly two ounces of corn-starch, stirred smooth with 
two eggs, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. As soon as it thickens, take 
off from the fire. 

Apple Filling. 

Mix together the juice and grated rind of one lemon and two 
peeled apples grated, with sufficient powdered confectioner's sugar. 
Stir over fire until it boils down a little, then add more sugar until 
stiff enough. 

Lemon- Jelly Filling. 

Boil one pint of water, the juice of three lemons and one-half 
pound of powdered sugar. Stir into it slowly two and one-half 
ounces of corn-starch dissolved in a little water, a pinch of salt, and 
one grated lemon peel. As soon as it starts to thicken, take off from 
the fire, and spread on the cakes, while warm. Juice of oranges, 
canned apples, or peaches, can be used up- in the same way. 



— 93 — 

Whipped Cream. 

To beat up cream well, it should have been standing twenty- 
four hours, undisturbed — what is called double cream. To beat it up 
everything must be very clean and cold. Beat up slowly and easily, 
then, when done, add to every quart five ounces of powdered sugar 
and one teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Red Cochineal Color. 

Mix in stone or porcelain basin one-fourth of an ounce of cochineal 
ground up very fine, one-fourth of an ounce of burnt alum, one- 
fourth of an ounce of cream of tartar, and pour over this one pint of 
hot rainwater; then add one-fourth of an ounce of salts of tartar; mix 
and strain next morning; then add one-half of an ounce of gum arabic. 

Yellow Coloring. 

Saffron, boiled down, with a little sugar and rainwater, and then 
filtered through a glass funnel, is the old style of coloring. But now 
there is such a number of colorings, liquid and paste, on the market, 
that it does not pay to make it yourself. 

Blue Coloring. 

Generally ultramarine is used, but it must be handled carefully, 
.being very strong. For painting ornaments and toys it is mixed with 
a little gum arabic and sugar solution. 

Colored Sugar Sand. 

Sift coarse sugar through a fine sieve to separate all the fine dust. 
Warm the coarse sugar a little in a kettle, make a cavity in the center 
and pour into it a little coloring; mix with a little of the sugar first, 
gradually rubbing in more of the sugar, until all is mixed evenly. On 
a heavy baking tin lay strong paper, spread the sugar over it, warm 
well through in oven, stir up thoroughly, warm again, and when per- 
fectly dry, sift through a coarse sieve and pack in glass jars, but do 
not expose to the sun. 

Lemon and Orange Sugar. 

Grate nice, hard lemon or orange skins (not too deep — only the 
yellow part), and mix with sufficient powdered sugar and set away in 
air-tight jars. 



— 94 — 

Vanilla Sugar. 

Cut up very fine two or three sound vanilla beans and weigh off 
one pound of cut lump sugar. Put the vanilla with part of the sugar 
in a mortar and pound fine. Then sift it, put the remaining vanilla 
back in the mortar, add more sugar, pound fine again, sift, and so 
keep on, until all is beaten to fine powder. Then pack away air-tight. 

Orange and Lemon Zest. 

To get the very finest aroma of the fruit without any bitter taste 
to it, rub hard lemons or oranges over lumps of sugar. As soon as 
the sugar is covered with the skin, scrape it off with a sharp knife 
and rub over it again. So keep on, until the outside skin of all the 
lemons or oranges is rubbed off. This is especially fine flavoring for 
ice creams, cremes and icings. 

Dominoes. 

Bake a sheet about three-fourths of an inch thick of sponge or 
gold cake mixture (see Parts IV. and V.). Let it stand one day, if 
possible, then cut in slices two inches wide. Turn the bottom up and 
spread thin with jelly. Now roll a piece of marzipan, very thin, cut 
in same size strips, to cover the top of slices, and frost over very thin 
with water icing. Now, with a sharp knife cut in blocks again the 
size of domino blocks. Let them stay close together; draw a line 
through the center with red icing, then with finer tube draw two lines 
with white royal icing on the sides, and ornament with dots of choco- 
late to represent the numbers on the dominoes. 

Potatoes. 

Take small bits of sponge cake, rub with a little thin jelly, cover 
with a thin sheet of marzipan, brush over with a little sugar color 
and roll in grated chocolate. Then, with a pointed stick, prick some 
holes in them, and stick small bits of sliced almonds in, to represent 
sprouts of the potatoes. 

.Apples, Pears, etc. 

These can be made out of sponge cake (lady finger mixture). 
With bag and tube lay out in the shape of the fruit, and bake a nice 
brown. When well done, set two together with apple or apricot 
marmalade, and frost some with white, some with yellow icing. 



— 95 — 

Pours and Apples of Afering-ue. 

Take a very thin layer of sponge cake, spread it with marmalade 
and cut out with round or oval cutter. Now prepare a good meringue 
(as for Kisses, see Part VI. ) and lay out in the shape of apples, pears, 
peaches, etc. , and bake on wet boards. Where there is a good crust 
on top, lay one on a piece of the sponge cake, same shape, and 
sprinkle a very little with red coloring. Then frost very thin with 
transparent water icing, and stick on the end a whole clove for the 
core, and on the other end a thin stick of citron for the stem. 

Almond. Souffle JOsses. (A uf la uf). 

Pound very fine two ounces blanched almonds with the white 
of one egg and sufficient XXXX confectioner's sugar. Then add the 
whites of three more eggs, beaten up a little first, and enough more 
fine sugar to make a stiff paste. Roll out one-fifth of an inch thick, 
and cut out in stars, rosettes, rings, etc. , and set on flour-dusted tins. 
Let dry a few hours, and bake very cool. They will raise over an 
inch high and come up straight, if oven is cool enough. Then frost 
with thin water icing or royal icing, and sprinkle with colored sugars, 
or paint them. 

Vanilla and Rose Souffle,, 

The same as above, only omit the almonds and add a few drops 
of alcohol and a little vanilla or rose and red coloring. 

A.meriean JKlarzipano 

Cut up two pounds of almond paste in thin slices and spread on 
candy marble, which you first sprinkle with ice water. While this is 
being done, boil five pounds of sugar with one quart of water and a 
half pound of glucose to the ball (245 degrees), and pour over the 
paste. Let it cool off, then rub with spatula until it is all smooth and 
creamed. Work all in one lump and cover up. This is very fine for 
fancy bonbons and fancy hand-modeled cakes. 

Sizg-cir Couleur (Burned Sugar), 

Dissolve one pound powdered sugar on a good fire, stirring it. 
Let it get black, until a thick, heavy smoke ascends and it foams up. 
Then pour in a pint of water and stir until all is dissolved again. 



— 96 — 
Croquant or Nougat. 

Melt in a kettle one and a half pounds of white sugar without 
water, stirring it occasionally. Then add one pound of thin sliced or 
chopped blanched almonds, which you have first heated. Mix well 
and quickly now, and roll out on 'well oiled marble slab, and cut out 
or mould in any shapes desired to make pyramids, centre pieces, etc. 

Clear Caramel. 

FOR SPUN SUGAR ORNAMENTS, FLOWERS, ETC. 

Boil two and a half pounds of loaf sugar with a pint of water 
(short measure) and a pinch of cream of tartar to the crack (280 de- 
grees). Take off the fire and keep in hot water bath,. Now dip in 
your spoon and run out the design as drawn on well oiled marble 
slab, or for flowers dip in your lead moulds. 

Rook Sugar (Honeycomb). 

FOR DECORATING. 

Boil two and a half pounds of granulated sugar to light crack 
(285 degrees) and stir into it one good tablespoonful of royal icing 
(with acetic acid). It will foam up in a minute, and must be poured 
as quickly as possible on an oiled slab, as it will turn hard in a second 
afterwards. If you want to get different shades to represent rocks, 
you can make up a spoonful of different colored frosting before adding 
to the caramel 

Pure Baking Powder* 

Mix together two pounds of pure cream of tartar, one pound of 
baking soda, one-half of a pound of corn-starch, one-half pound of 
flour. Sift seven or eight times through a fine sieve. 

Cheap Baking Powder* 

One-half of a pound of cream of tartar, one-half of a pound of 
saleratus, three ounces of tartaric acid, one ounce of salt, two ounces 
of ammonia, one pound of corn-starch or flour. Sift fine ten times. 



FOR NOTES AND RECITES. 



FOR JXOTES AAD RECIPES. 



/ 



99 



/Miscellaneous. 



Z*iquid JHeasixres. 

Two tablespoonfuls equal i ounce 

One gill equals 4 

One cup equals 8 

One-half pint equals 8 

One pint equals 16 

One quart equals 2 pounds 

One gill equals A cup 

Eighteen to twenty egg whites equal 1 pint 

Eight to ten eggs equal 1 pound 

Metric Weights. 

1 gram equals 0.035 ounce 

31.5 grams equal 1 ounce 

490 grams equal 1 pound av. 

i kilogram equals 1 . 102 pound 

1 kilogram equals 2. 204 pounds 

1 liter equals 1 quart (short) 

Degrees for Sugar Hailing. 

For the use of the thermometer. When the sugar boils over 
five minutes, you can look for the first degree, which is: 

The small thread . . 230 degrees 

The strong thread 236 

Soft ball 240 to 245 

Hard ball 246 to 2 50 

Light crack 260 to 265 

Strong crack 290 to 300 

Light caramel 3 2 ° to 33° 

Yellow caramel 34° to 350 



FOR NOTES AAO RBCIPBS. 



y 



INDEX 



PART I.--PUEE PASTE, PIES, TARTS, BTC. 



American Puff Paste 5 

Apple Flamri Tarts 12 

Common Pie Paste 6 

Cream Meringue Pie 9 

Cream Pies 9 

Custard Pies 8 

European Cherry Pie (Flamri) 11 

Evaporated and Dried Fruits 7 

French Madelaine Pie or Tarts 10 

French Puff Paste 5 

French Tartlets 12 

Holland or Dutch Puff Paste 6 

How to Prepare Pies 7 

Imperial Currant Pie and Tarts 11 

Imperial Vanilla Cream Tarts 11 



PAGE 

Large Patties 12 

Large Patty Shells 12 

Lemon Pie 8 

Metropolitan Cream or Jelly Tarts ... 12 

Mince Meat for Pies 10 

Peach Meringue 9 

Prepared Pie Seasoning 7 

Pumpkin or Squash Pies 8 

Rhubarb Pie 11 

Rice Pie 10 

Russian Spice Pie 9 

Southern Custard or Potato Pie 10 

Vienna Tart Paste. 6 

Vol-au-Vents 13 

Golden Rules I 4 _I 5 



PART II.— PUDDINGS, SOUFFLE, ETC. 



Almond Pudding 21 

Baked Apple Dumplings 20 

Boiled Indian Pudding 19 

Boston Brown Bread Pudding 22 

Brandy Sauce 24 

Bread and Butter Pudding 17 

Brown Bread Pudding 22 

Cabinet Pudding 19 

Chateau Sauce 23 

Chocolate Pudding 21 

Cold Farina or Indian Pudding 19 

Combination of Puddings and Sauces. 25 

Cottage Bread Pudding 17 

Cottage Rice Pudding 18 

Cream Sauce 23 

Diplomatic Pudding 19 

English Plum Pudding 20 

Farina or Indian Meal Pudding 17 

Floating Island 22 

French Cream Sauce 23 

Fritters : 24 



Fritters with Baking Powder 24 

Fruit Dumpling 19 

Genuine Old-Fashicned English Plum 

Pudding 20 

Hard Sauce 23 

Mayonnaise 24 

Minute Pudding 22 

Omelette Souffle 24 

Poor Man's Pudding 20 

Queen Pudding 21 

Rice Pudding, Family Style 18 

Roly-Poly, or Steamed Pudding 18 

Rum Sauce 23 

Snow Pudding 21 

Souffle 17 

Stock Sauce 22 

Suet Pudding 21 

Tapioca and Sago Pudding 18 

Tutti-Frutti Pudding 19 

Yankee Sauce 23 

Golden Rules 26 



(101) 



102 



PART/TT.—ICE CREAMS, SHERBETS, JEEEIES, Eta. 



American Ice Cream 30 

Bisque Ice Cream , 32 

Blanc Mange 35 

Caramel Cream 31 

Cardinal Punch 32 

Champagne Jelly 34 

Charlotte Russe 35 

Chocolate Essence 31 

Chocolate Ice Cream 31 

Claret Jelly 34 

Coffee Cream 31 

Croquant or Nougat Ice Cream 32 

Custard Cream 30 

Demi-glaci' of Coffee 35 

European Style of Freezing 29 

Frozen Fruit 33 

Frozen Lemonade 33 

Fruit Blanc Mange 36 

Fruit Jelly 35 

Hokey-Pokey 31 

Ice Cream with Eggs 29 



PAGE 

Jellies 33 

Lemon Ice 33 

Lemon Jelly 34 

Lemon or Orange Ice Cream 30 

Orange Jelly 34 

Orange and Lemon Sherbets 33 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 30 

Pineapple Cream 30 

Pineapple Sherbet 32 

Raspberry Bavarian 36 

Raspberry Floats 36 

Raspberry Fruit Cream 30 

Roman Punch 32 

Sherbets and Punches 32 

Sherry or Port Wine Jelly 34 

Swiss Cream Meringue 35 

Vienna Ice Cream (Vanilla) 29 

Water Ices 33 

Wine Jelly 34 

Golden Rules 37 



PART IV.— SPONGE CARES, POUXL* CAKES, 
EAYER CAKES, ETC. 



Almond Cake 46 

American Sponge Cake 41 

Angel Food 44 

Chocolate Layer Cake 45 

Citron Cake 42 

Citron Cake. No. 2 43 

Cocoanut Layer Cake 45 

Common Jelly Roll 41 

Dark Wedding Cake 43 

Duchess. No. 1 44 

Duchess. No. 2 44 

European Sponge Cake 39 

Gold Cake 41 

Imitation Raisin Cake and Pound Cake. 41 

Jelly Cake 45 

Jelly Roll 41 

Lady Cake 42 

Large Sponge Cake 40 



Layer Cake 42 

Light Pound Cake 40 

Marble Cake 42 

Orange Cake 41 

Pound Cake 40 

Raisin Pound Cake 40 

Silver Cake 42 

Sponge Cake 39 

Strawberry Meringue Squares 44 

Strawberry Short Cake. No. 1 43 

Strawberry Short Cake. No. 2 44 

Vienna Sponge Cake 39 

Vienna Sponge Cake 40 

Wedding Cake 43 

White Mountain Cake 45 

Wine Cake. No. 1 43 

Wine Cake. No. 2 43 

Golden Rules 47 



103 — 



PART V*--8MAZ,l4 CAKES, COOKIES, CUP CAKES, 
UROP CAKES, ETC. 



PAGE 

Chocolate Diamonds 53 

Christmas Mixture 53 

Cocoanut Wafers 54 

Cup Cakes 51 

Doughnuts or Crullers 53 

Drop Cakes 50 

Extra Cup Cakes 51 

Extra Lemon Snaps 52 

Fancy Cup Cakes 5 : 

Fried Cakes 53 

Improved New Year Cakes 51 

Jelly Diamonds. 50 

Jelly Doughnuts (Bismarks) 54 

Jelly Fingers 50 



Jumbles or Drops 50 

Lemon Snaps, Crisp 52 

New Year Cakes 50 

Orange Crescents 52 

Pound Cup Cakes 51 

Raised Doughnuts 53 

Rock Cakes 52 

Seed Cakes 49 

Shrewsbury Cakes 49 

Sponge Biscuits 51 

Springerle. No. 1 54 

Springerle. No. 2 54 

Sugar Cookies 49 

Golden Rules 55 



PART VI.— MACAROONS, KISSES, EANCY 
CAKES, ETC. 



Almond Croquettes 58 

Almond Macaroons 57 

Anise Drops (Gateaux Anissette) .... 62 

Champagne Wafers 59 

Chocolate Eclairs 59 

Chocolate Kisses 61 

Cinnamon Stars 63 

Cocoanut Kisses 60 

Cocoanut Macaroons 58 

Cream Kisses 60 

Cream Puffs 59 

European Almond Macaroons 57 

Fruit Kisses 60 

Home-made Macaroons 57 

Jelly Macaroons 58 

Jenny Lind Slices 63 

Kisses 60 



PAGE 

Lady Fingers 61 

Leaves for Center-Pieces 59 

Macaroon Slices 58 

Macaroon Souffle 58 

Patiences 60 

Parisian Macaroons 57 

Prince Macaroons 58 

Spanish Kisses 60 

Spanish Meringue 60 

Snow Balls 62 

Sponge Drops 61 

Vanilla Wafer Jumbles 61 

Vienna Almond Drops 62 

Vienna Fancy Mixture 62 

Vienna Lady Fingers 61 

Vienna Tea Cakes 62 

Golden Rules 64 



PART VII.—MOEASSES AND HONEY CAKES. 



American Honey Cakes 71 

American Spiced Honey Cake 71 

Berkshire Cakes 70 

Bolivars 70 

Brandy Snaps 69 

Cinnamon Wafers 70 

Cobblestones (Pfeffernusse) 73 



PAGE 

Common Spice Cup Cakes 68 

Crumb or Spice Cookies 69 

English Currant Slices 67 

French Ginger Nuts 69 

German Honey Cakes and Hearts. ... 71 

Ginger Cookies ,. . . 68 

Ginger Nuts 69 



104 



l*.\KT VII.— MOLASSES AND I ION BY GAKES-Confiniied. 



Ginger Snaps 70 

Honey Cakes ... 71 

Molasses Cookies 68 

Molasses Fruit Cakes 69 

Molasses Ginger Bread 67 

Molasses Pound Cake 68 

Nurnberger Lebkuchen 72 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake 70 



Scotch Fruit Drops 67 

Spice Cup Cakes 68 

Stock for Honey Cakes 71 

Sugar Nuts (Hard Tacks) 72 

Swiss Honey Cakes (Basler Leckerle). 72 

Thick Honey Cake 72 

Washington Slices 68 

Golden Rules 74 



PART VIII.— YE AST, BREAIJ, BISCUITS, COFFEE 
CAKES, MUFFINS, BTC. 



American Rye Bread 81 

Boston Brown Bread with Baking 

Powder 81 

Boston Brown Bread with Yeast 81 

Buckwheat Cakes 83 

Buns -84 

Cinnamon Cake 84 

Coffee Cakes. 1 84 

Coffee Cake Dough. II 85 

Coffee Wreaths 85 

Corn Muffins 83 

Cottage Bread 79 

Currant Buns 84 

Dry Stock Yeast 77 

English Wheat Muffins 83 

Finger Rolls or Lady Washington Rolls 82 

Flour for Bread 78 

French Crullers 86 

French Rolls 81 

French Sticks (without sponge) 80 



Graham Bread (with sponge) 80 

Graham Bread (without sponge) 80 

Graham Gems 82 

Home-made Bread (without sponge). . 79 

Hot Cross Buns 84 

Jelly Doughnuts (Bismarks) 85 

Johnny Cake 83 

Milk Bread 80 

Newport Rolls 82 

Parker House Rolls 82 

Raised Biscuits 81 

Streussel Kuchen 84 

Tea Biscuits 82 

The Ferment 78 

Turk Heads 85 

Vienna Bread 80 

Waffles 83 

Wheat Cakes 83 

Zwieback 85 

General Rules 87 



PART IX.— ICINGS, FIBBINGS, FAACV CAKES, 
COLORS, BTC. 



PAGE 

Almond Souffle Kisses. (Auflauf). ... 95 

American Chocolate Frosting 90 

American Marzipan 95 

American Vanilla Cream Frosting. . . 89 

Apple Filling 92 

Apples, Pears, etc 94 

Blue Coloring 93 

Boiled Chocolate Frosting 90 

Boiled Frosting for Honey Cakes 92 

Cheap Baking Powder 96 



PAGE 

Clear Caramel 96 

Coffee Icing 91 

Colored Sugar Sand 93 

Cream for Filling 92 

Croquant or Nougat 96 

Dominoes 94 

Egg Food Icing 92 

Fondant for Frosting 91 

Gelatine Icing 91 

Lemon and Orange Sugar 93 



105 



PART IX.— ICINGS, FILLINGS, JPAA T CY CAKES, COLORS, ETC.— Cont'd. 



Lemon Frosting 91 

Lemon-Jelly Filling 92 

Marshmallow Filling. 1 89 

Marshmallow Filling. II 90 

Orange and Lemon Zest 94 

Pears and Apples of Meringue 95 

Pistachio Icing 91 

Potatoes 94 

Pure Baking Powder 96 

Red Cochineal Color 93 



Rock Sugar (Honeycomb) 96 

Rose, Almond or Strawberry Icing ... 91 

Royal Icing 92 

Sugar Couleur (Burned Sugar) 95 

Vanilla and Rose Souffle' 95 

Vanilla Sugar 94 

Walnut Frosting 89 

Water Icing 89 

Whipped Cream 93 

Yellow Coloring 93 



(fi oobs dbflcrtts eb.... 

npHE author of "Perfection in Baking" takes pleasure 
-*■ in calling attention to the materials and appliances 
advertised in this book, and in vouching for their excel- 
lence. It is because of the patronage given by the manu- 
facturers of these goods that the book can be sold at the 
low price at which it is offered. 

Almond Paste vi. Egg Coloring v. 

Baking Powder vii. Egg Food xi. 

Bakers' Tools xiv. Journal for Bakers xvii. 

Baskets iii- Lamps iv. 

Books for Bakers xviii. Mince Meat xvi. 

Cake Ornaments • . • ix. Ornamenting Tools x. 

Cockroach Powder ii. Oven Lights xni. 

Compressed Yeast x. Portable Ovens xv. 

Dough Dividers xii. Soda vm. 

Dried Fruits xvi. Starch i- 



Advertising Supplement. 



SCHALili & CO. 



NBW YORK 



Manufacturers of the Latest 
and Finest 



61 Barclay Street, 

Manufacturers c 
and Finest 

fium Paste Flower Leaves * 



u 


C 

o 


u 


tfl 


4> 


eg 


•«-> 


<u 


<n 


tfi 


es 




LU 


>> 



03 



Cfl 



^*G>£ 



Cake Ornaments 







■n 



£ - >; . 






o 

3- 






1313 I5XB/ 2 IN. 

IMPORTERS OF THE FINEST 



OLIVE OIL 



MOULDS FOR ICE CREAM 



CJ1K)COL^ 

OUR SPECIALTY 
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES 



A dvertising Supplement. 



FLEISCHMANN'S 



^ VEGETABLE COMPRESSED 




Yeast 



HAS NO EQUAL 




For 28 C en tS 



We will send, postage prepaid 



£abu. ; fingers, 

KtSSeS anb 

Puffs • 




ONE CANVAS BAQ 
and THREE TUBES 



ADDRESS 



Emil Braun 

60 CHARLOTTE, ST. - UTIGtt, N. Y. 



Advertising Supplement. 



CUNNINGHAM'S 

DESICCATED 

EGG FOOD 



PERFECTLY PURE 
....and WHOLESOME 



WILL KEEP 
in ANY CLIMATE 



A PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOREGGS 

por B a ^ ers ' anc * C on ^ ect * oners ' U se 

LESS THAN HALF THE PRICE OF EGGS 

ENDORSED BY 

PROF. HENRY A. MOTT, Ph.D., L.L.D. LAWREN E BRIANT. F.C.S.. F.R.M.S., 

145 Broadway, Hew York 24 Holborn St., London, England 

PRICE: 

45 Cts. Per Pound, ir. 6 Pound Cans. 40 Cts. Per Pound, in 50 Pound Cases 

1 Pound of Desiccated Egg Food is Equal to 7 Doz. Eggs 
C UNNINGHAM'S 

W^hite JE^T^f f^ood 

A SUBSTITUTE FOR THE^WHITr^TJF^ETiGS 

SUITABLE FOR ICING 
AND DECORATING, AND FOR 

Almond and Cocoanut Macaroons 

4 Ounces of WHITE EGG FOOD will Equal 1 Quart of the White of Eggs 
Costing you 13 Cents Per Quart 

PRICE: 

60 Cts. Per Pound, in 6 Pound Cans. 45 Cts. Per Pound, in 50 Pound Cases 

SOLD BY ALL BAKERS' SUPPLY HOUSES 

manufactured CUNNINGHAM MANUFACTURING CO. 

KINGSTON, N. Y. 



Advertising Supplement. 



In these [)ay5 of ""2km^ 

••'Advancement 






MACHINERY 

Is an Essential Feature in all Modern Bakeries 




^N^^^. 1^ «^V ^^ ^^ . ^^V^^/ 



* 
* 



It is Very Desirable to have 

A GOOD DOUGH DIVIDBR 

One which is easy to operate, 
is practical in design and construction, possessing strength and durability. 

OUR DIVIDER FOR ROLLS 

CUTS INTO 36 PARTS 

THEY ARE THE SIMPLEST, THE EASIEST AND THE QUICKEST TO OPERATE 

OF ALL MACHINES 



ALL DEALERS SELL THEM 



^5^C. 



Dutchess Tool Co- 
VVVVVVVVVVV jy^ S^N^S^S^ ^^f^^S^K^ 



FISHKILL- ON -HUDSON, NEW YORK 



Advertising Supplement. 



Good Material s ss? Good Bread 




WE MAKE THE 



Eureka Oven Illuminator 

We have sold thousands of them, which proves 
that they are the 

BEST OVEN LIGHT IN EXISTENCE 





THE VAN HOUTEN DOOR 

t SIZE U°2i 9X26. 
PAT'D.MAR.26,'95. 

MANUFACTURED Br" 

DUTCHESS TOOL GO. 

F1SHKILL-ON-HUDSON.N.Y. 




Our Oven Doors A.re Unexcelled 

For Economic Results, Ease of Operation 

Simplicity and durability 

ALL DEALERS SELL THEM 



DUTCHESS TOOL CO. 

FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON, = NEW YORK 



A dvertising Supplement . 




Cherry Peels 



Patent Egg Beaters 



THOS. MILLS 




a Manufacturers 
of 

BAKERS', 
CONFECTIONERS' 

Tin and Wood Bowls and ICE CREAM.... 

MANUFACTURERS' 




Copper Pans 




Cake Cutters 

All Styles 



JOOlS and 

Machines 

1301 to 130 r N. 8th St. 

PHILADELPHIA 



CATALOGUE SENT 

ON APPLICATION 




Furnaces 




Ice Cream Freezers Oven Castings 



Advertising Supplement. 



RBID'S 



Portable Ovbn 




THREE SIZE5. 



FOR 50, 80 and 120 LOAVES 



Just as Good for Roasting 
as for Baking 



THE GREATEST ECONOMY IN FUEL 



Many Desirable Features are United in this Oven 



6,600 IN USE 



In ail parts of the country 



Adam Reid, U9 Main st Buffalo, n. y. 



Advertising Supplement. 



Out* C 1 1 ****** *•% "f- c are cleaned and washed, and we guarantee 
Will Vte/UIldlll^ same perfectly clean. 



the keystone Fruit Cleaning Co. 

IMPORTERS AND CLEANERS OF 

DRIED FRUITS 



Packers of the well-known "Keystone Brand" of Headquarters for.... 



CLEANED and WASHED 

CURRANTS 



BAKERS' 
SUPPLIES 



WORKS: Front and Laurel Sts. 



967 North Second Street 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



Atmore's Mince Meat 



WARRANTED 
FREE 
FROM 
ALL 

CHEMICALS 
AND 

ADULTERA- 
TIONS 




MAKES 

BETTER 

PIES 

REACHES 

TWICE 

AS FAR AS 

ANY OTHER 

BRAND 



has a reputation all over the Continent for 
its superior flavor and quality. Always 
ready, always alike. 

SEND FOR SAMPLE ORDER OR ASK YOUR JOBBER FOR IT 



Our Plum Pudding 



o*niy u by?*. ured ATMORE & SON 
UO Tasker Street PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



A dvertising Supplement. 



otvn 



THE HELPER gives Solid Money Value lor its Subscription Price. 



THE. 



44ELPER 



HELPS ITS 
READERS TO. 



Make Money 

•&QOOOGOGGGOGGGGQQGS. 



How? 



LET 

SUBSCRIBERS 

ANSWER 




WYKad^$)50cJVaa.4AL~tu>o u>Wa> on, owl hcuJ 






NET PROFIT 

3,000 

PER CENT. 
NET PROFIT 

10,000 

PER CENT. 
NET PROFIT 

20,000 

PER CENT. 



SUBSCRI PTION PRICE $1.00 A YEAR, IN A DVANCE 

Single copies sent postpaid to any address for 15 cents each (to be applied on subscription if 
desired). Postage stamps accepted in payment. 



Any one number is worth the pr ice for a year, and may 
prove to be worth 30 times, 100 times or 200 times as much 



SECURITY BLDG. 

Madison St. & Fifth Ave. 



«aliLPeR$&^ ch,caqo 



xviii Advertising Supplement. 

BOOKS m BAKERS m CONFECTIONERS 

Helpful Trade Books at Reduced Prices in combination with THE HELPER. 

CSEE OPPOSITE PAGE) 

FULL DESCRIPTIVE LIST SENT ON APPLICATION. 
We do not send books C. O. D. They are mailed postpaid on receipt of price. If It Is 
desired that any of these books should be sent by registered mail, add ten cents for regis- 
try of package. 

Two prices are printed; the first is the price of the book alone, the second is the price of the 
book with The Helper for one year. To secure these books at the reduced price, money for them 
must be sent with subscription to The Helper. 



ejmfe =* = ^» r° Bakers 



ADDRESS 4Sb rBICLfrEi^eO» Ft « "- 4 CHICAGO 

ej^yr 1 =* = ^ r° Bakers 

Security Building, Fifth Ave. and Madison St. 

Books marked with an asterisk (*) are written and published in England. 

CANDY MAKING 

Frye's Practical Candy Maker, 96 pp., 5*4x8 cloth cover, 

Gill's Complete Practical Confectioner, 572 pp. , 3J4x7J4 

Perfecto's Notes on American Confectionery, 90 pp., 5x7 

*Skuse's Complete Confectioner, 187 pp., 5%x8% ." " 

ORNAMENTAL AND PASTRY WORK 

Gill's Complete Practical Pastry Cool; 400 pp , 5^x7^ cloth cover, 

Hueg's Ornamental Confectionery and the Art of Baking, 200pp., 5x7%, " 

King's Artistic Confectionery, 96 pp., 5%x8Jg leatherette 

♦Vine's Practical Pastry, 212 pp. . 5x7 board cover, 

♦Wells' Pastry Cook and Confectioner, 198 pp. , 5x7% cloth cover, 

BAKING 

♦Blandy's Baker's Catechism, 37 pp., 534x8% paper cover, 

♦Blandy's Baker's Guide, (3d Edition), 240 pp., 5%x8% 

Braun's Perfection in Baking, 100 pp., 6x9 (2d Edition) cloth cover, 

Braun's " " " in German, 125 pp., 6x9 paper cover, 

Braun's " " ," " 125 pp., 6x9 cloth cover. 

Bullinger's Recipes for Bakers, 144 pp. , 6x8% paper cover, 

Bullinger's " " 144 pp., 6x8% cloth cover, 

Gill's Complete Bread, Cake and Cracker Baker, 384 pp., 5^x7% 

♦Goodfellow's Elementary Principles of Breadmaking, 200 pp., 5x7 cloth cover, 

Ice Cream and Cakes, 385 pp., 5x7% 

*Jago's Principles of Bread Making, 134 pp. . 5x7 

♦Jago's Science of Bread Making, 650 pp., 5%x8% 

Schurr's Baker's Hand Book, 54 pp., 4x6% paper cover, 

♦Wells' Bread and Biscuit. Baker, 106 pp. , 5x7% cloth cover, 

Yanner's Modern Cake Baker. 250 pp. , 5x6% 

MISCELLANEOUS 

♦Blandy's Bakery Economics, 90 pp., 5%x8% paper cover, 

♦Goodfellow's Dietetic Value of Bread. 328 pp. , 4%t%% cloth cover, 

Hossick's Book of Detachable Advertisements, 200 adv'ts. 4 to page 

MacMahon's Soda Water Dispenser's Guide, 95 pp., 6x9 cloth cover, 

McKinney '8 Baker's Route Book, 4%x9 leather cover 





WITH 




Helper 


$5.00 


$5.50 


4.00 


4.75 


2.00 


2.75 


3.00 


3.75 



$3.00 


$3.75 


2.50 


3.25 


1.50 


2.00 


1.00 


1.75 


.85 


1.60 



$0.20 


$1.10 


.75 


1.50 


1.00 


1.75 


.55 


1.30 


.80 


1.55 


.65 


1.40 


.95 


1.70 


3.00 


3.75 


1.25 


2.00 


2.00 


2.75 


.80 


1.55 


5.50 


6.00 


.75 


1.50 


.85 


1.60 


2.00 


2.75 



$0.35 


$1.10 


1.75 


2.50 


1.00 


1.75 


2.50 


3.00 


. .60 


1.35 



LIBRARY OF CONGRE c 



SS 



014 520 947 A 



•§m 



RfliM 



II 



■H 



