
IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



1^ 

1^ 



M 125 



Hi 



m 

2.0 



U i 1.6 



P^. 



<? 



/^ 



A 










M 



^* 



'^ 



V 



Photographic 

Sdences 
Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STHEET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14S80 

(716) 872-4^03 



iV 



^9) 



\ 



V 





\ 




•1>^ 





\\ 








Q^ 



CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



CIHIVI/ICIVIH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut canedien de microreproductions historiques 





Technical and Bibliographic Notes/Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Institute has attempted to obviin the best 
original copy available for filming. Faatures of this 
copy which may be bibliographically unique, 
which may alter any of the images in the 
reproduction, or which may significantly change 
the usual method of f.lming, are checked below. 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire 
qu'il lui a 6t6 possible de se procurer. Les details 
de cet exemplaire qui sont peut-dtre uniques du 
point de vue bibliographique, qui peuvent modifier 
une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une 
modification dans la m6thode normale de filmage 
sont indiqu6s ci-dessous. 



n 

n 
n 



n 



Coloured covers/ 
Couverture de couleur 

Covers damaged/ 
Couverture endommagee 

Covers restored and/or laminated/ 
Couverture restaurde et/ou pellicuide 

Cover title missing/ 

Le titre de couverture manque 

Coloured rjiaps/ 

Cartes g^ographiques en couleur 

Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black)/ 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou ncire) 

Coloured plates and/or illustrations/ 
Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 



□ Coloured pages/ 
Pages de couleur 

□ Pages damaged/ 
Pages endommag6es 

□ Pages restored and/or laminated/ 
Pages restaurdes et/ou pelliculdes 

I — "y Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 
I ^ Pages d6color6es, tachetdes ou piqu^es 

I I Pages detached/ 







Pages d^tach^es 



Showthrough/ 
Transparencb 



□ Bound with other material/ 
Relie avec d'autres documents 



□ Quality of print varies/ 
Quality in^gale de I'impression 

□ Includes supplementary material/ 
Comprend du mat^ml supplementaire 



D 



D 



Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

La reliure serree peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distortion le long de la marge int6rieure 

Blank leaves added during restoration may 
appear within the text. Whenever possible, these 
have been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajoutdes 
\oTH d'une restauration apparaissent dans le te.vte, 
mais, lorsque cela 6tait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas 6t6 film^es. 



n 



Only edition available/ 
Seule Edition disponible 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata 
slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to 
ensure the best possible image/ 
Les pages totalement ou partiellement 
obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une pelure, 
etc., ont 6t6 filmdes d nouveau de facon d 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 



D 



Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires suppldmentaires; 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document est filmd au taux (^e reduction indiqui ci-dessous. 

10X 14X 18X 22X 



y 



/ 



26X 



30X 



12X 



16X 



20X 



24X 



28X 



32X 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced tha.iks 
to the generosity of: 

National Library of Canada 



L'exemplaire filmd fut reproduit grdce d la 
g6n6rosit6 de: 

Bibliothdque nationale du Canada 



The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Les images suivantes ont 6t6 reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de lo condition et 
de la nettetd de l'exemplaire f\\m6. et en 
conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
fi.st page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the eymbol -♦- (meaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 

Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprim^e sont film^s en commenpant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
dernidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, selon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont filmds en commenpant par la 
premidre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la dernidre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 

Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de chaque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — ^ signifie "A SUIVRE", le 
symbole V signifie "FIN". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent dtre 
filmds d des taux de reduction diffdrents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour dtre 
reproduit en un seul clich6, il est filmd S part-r 
de Tangle sup6rieur gauche, de gauche d droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'imagds ndcessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la mdthode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 2 3 

4 5 6 




f r- 



^ /"/// 



Yes 



A 



"^ 



T 90 Years of age, Stpong* and Hearty, 
without Pain or Ache, and attribute 
same to .»,->,, . . . 



McGale's 



.f . ■ ' ■'»■'■ % 



BatiefDat Pills. 



Our Hauits and Of Climate. 



ALL persbns leading a sedentary and inactive life are 
more or less subject to derangements of the Liver 
and Stomach, which, if neglected in a changeable 
climate like ours, leads to chronic disease and ultimate misery. 
An occasional dose of . . . 

• • • 

McGALE'S COMPOUND BUTTERNUT PILLS 

will stimulate the Liver to heilthy action, tone i.p the 
Stomach and Digestive r gans, thereby giving life and vigor 
to the system generally. For sale everywhere. 

Price, 25 cents per box. Five boxes, $r.oo. Mailed free 
of postage on receipt of price in money or postage stamps. 



B. E. McCALE, Chemist, 

Kor SSale Everywhere. 



Montreal. 



S 






^-^/-^ — ir--/^ s 




Grand Universal Range 



"ALL THE COMPORTS OF HOME 

Are attained where this Kange finds a resting placet 
It has everything desirable . . 



M 



I 



It is a perfect baKer . . . , , ■ 
An ornament to any kitchen . .. 
Ask to see one, and be conyinced. 



6J?4 Craifs Street. 

Cor. Inspector ntnl Wllllnin Streets. 
350« Notre Onme Street, ST. HHNRl. 
1417 St. Catherine Street, .70S. .JOHIN. 

MANUFACTURED BY 

The WM. GLENDINNENG S SON CU. 



MONTREAL. 



ST. HENRY. 




OfiTice: 18 St. Maurice Street 
Telephone 2484 

MONTREAL 



Common Sense 
RECIPE BOOK 



OONTAI.MNO AI,L THK . . 



• • 9 



Latest Recipes- •• 



. . OIV . . 



COOKING ^ WITH ^ ECONOriY 

AND ALSO VKRY VALUABLE 

Medicinai. Rkcipbs 



f^lRST EDITION 



Sttonttcaf.- 
PRINXED KY JOHN LOVELL & SON 



Entered aroordinK to Act of Parliament, In the year 1895 bv Mbs Sara« 
A..K., ,n the Office of the Minister of Agricu,t„r/and Statisti'csTottawa 



6 



Dr. Laviolette's 

Syrup of 
Turpentine_^i> 

The most palatable, the most reliable, the safest 
and the most efficacious remedy for COUGHS, 
COLDS, BRONCHITIS, LOSS OF VOICE, 
CROUP, WHOOPING-COUGH, CATARRH, 

And all affections of the Throat and Lungs. 

Dr. Laviolette'5 
Anti -Catarrh Balm 

The cheapest and best remedy for Catarrh, 
Cold in the Head, etc. (25 cents a tube ) 

Dr. Laviolette's 
Norway Tar Liquor 

The great Blood Purifier (only 25 cents for large 
bottle), cures all maladies of the skin and 
mucous membranes. 

ASK FOR THEM from your Druggist or Grocer, who can 
procure them at any wholesale house or direct 
froH'. the proprietor. 

d. GUSTflVE Laviolette, M.D., 

232-234 St. Paul St., - MONTRBAb. 



pre^fage: 



IN offering to the public this little book, a confident 
hope is entertained that it will prove to be its own 
best apologist, and that it may speedily win its way 
to popular esteem as a useful apd convenient household 
friend. It contains no recipe nor word of counsel the 
efficacy of wh :h has not been proved, while the remedies 
given for the cure of various ailments are beyond the 
imputation of either harmfulness or futility. 

In the method of arrangement followed, an effort 
has been made to unite convenience with simplicity, and 
the reader will readily recognize the advantage which 
a division into departments affords, whilst a well-com- 
piled index directs the h^sty enquirer at once to the 
object of his search. 

The advertisements form a highly useful directory 
for household reference, giving the business, style and 
address of only reliable tradesmen and business firms. 

The information afforded is both varied and con- 
siderable in amount. The one test applied in its selec- 
tion has been the query : — Is it reliable and will it b« 
useful? The COMMON Sense Recipe Book is now 
offered to the public in the sincere hope that its contents 
will be found both trustworthy and of practical utility. 



8 



MELDRUM BR05., 



COAL. DeALeRS 



r 



. . AND . . 



Genepol « ^opteps 



33 W^ellington Street, 



^i^ Cartage of S^er^ Description ^^^ 
"^ fllso on Hand all l^inds of Goal. ^^^ 



Jlouse Coals a Specialty. 

- < ■ ■ ■ 1 . . , . ■ . . 

Teleptione No. 743. 



INDEX. 

Bread, Rolls and Biscuits 179* 

Cakes 193 

Custards and Creams 175. 

Drinks ... 218 

Drinks for the Sick Room 226- 

Eggs and Omelets 131 

Fish 29 

Fruits 137 

Ices 157 

Jellies 228 

Meats 43 

Medicinal 231- 

Miscellaneous 243. 

Pickles 117 

Pies 164 

Poultry and Game 69 

Puddings 141 

Pudding Sauces „ 152 

Salads 305 

Sauces for Meat and Fish 61 

Soups ly- 

Vegetables 87- 



10 



TRAOe 
MARQUE 



MARK 
OiPOSU 




HEGISTUeO 

. FROM . . . 



THE CROffER ZIilE CON SOMER 

VYYyyYYYYYVVyYYVVYYVyYYYyyYY 
VYYVWYY 

SIX (6) a/G PROFITS 



They all wonder how we can sell our " Bon BourgeoiS " and 
** Montferrand " Clarets at $3.00 and $4.00 per case of 12 large 
bottles. The solution is so simple and true : 

Bordeaux House buys through Broker from Grower 2 PROFITS 

Bordeaux House ships to Oanadian Agent " 3 PEOFITS 

Oanadian Agent sells Wholesale Houae " 4 PROFITS 

Wholesale House sells to Retail Dealer " 5 PROFITS 

Retail Dealer sells to Oonsuiaa" " 6 PROFITS 

Whereas we import our wines direct from the vineyards in France in 
large casks anr* bottle here with the most improved machinery, besides 
saving the e.iormous duties on bottles, cases, corks, capsules, etc. Ask 
/our dealer for them, but beware of spurious rank imitations. See our 
trade mark and note our name stamped in full on our corks and capsules. 
■Our "BON BOURGEOIS" has a RLD CAPSULE, the "MONT 
FERRAND" a BLUE CAPSULE. To imitate our bott'es in any way 
is FORGERY, and we will prosecute all oflfenders. If your dea.ler tries 
to palm offsonio other brand instead, upon which he makes a more gene- 
rous profit, apply direct 

BORDEAUX CLARET COMPANY, 

lontreal Office, 30 Hospital. Bordeaux Office, 17 AUee de Boutaut 

TELEPHONE 2424. Price Lists mailed upon application. 



11 

Ill^r^S OF FARE. 

INENU. 



Fine Ho.\fiNV. French Toast* 

Mock Duciv ok Bkek Croquettes. 
Graham Biscuits qr Wheat Gkms. 

Omelet or Poached Kggs on Toast. 
Potatoes and Cream. 

Oatmeal Griddle Cakes. 

Coekee and Chocolate. 



RKCIPES FOR BREAKFAST. 

French Toast. — To one thoroughly beaten egg, put one 
cupful sweet milk and a little salt. Slice light bread and dip 
into the mixture, allowing each slice to absorb some of the 
milk •, then brown on a hot buttered griddl." ; spread with 
butter and serve hoi. 

Mock Duck. — Take the round of beefsieak, salt and pepper 
on each side ; prepare bread or crackers, with oysters or 
without, as for stuffing a turkey; lay your stuffing on the 
meat ; sew up, and roast about one hour. You will think you 
have a roast duck. 

Graham Biscuit. — One quart Graham flour, three and a 
half heaping teaspoonfuls Eagle Baking Powder, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one of butter ; make into soft dough with milk. 

Wheat Gems. — One pint milk, two eggs, flour enough to 
make a batter not very stiff, two large spoonfuls melted butter, 
yeast to raise them, a little soda and salt ; bake in hot gem 
irons. 

Omelet. — Six eggs, — whites and yolks beaten separately ; 
half a pint of milk, six teaspoonfuls corn starch, one teaspoon- 
ful Eagle Baking Powder, and a little salt ; add the whites, 
beaten to a stiff froth, last ; cook in a little butter. 

Poached Eggs on Toast. — Break as many eggs as you 
wish, one at a time, and drop carefully into a spider filled 
with boiling water. When the whites of the eggs are well 
set, slip a spoon carefully under, and take out, laying each on 
a small piece of buttered toast on a platter : put a small 
piece of butter on each egg and a dash of pepper ; serve 
immediately. 



12 



KstabliHhed i82«. 



^ 



ALWAYS ON TOP I 

5VJAN Sjiiinj 



0- ST 




wholesale: 8i RETAIL 



Hams, Bacon, Rolls, Picnic Hams, etc., madejfromi 

selected meats, and are mild cured with white sugar tO' 

taste. Also Cambridge and Pork Sausages, Extra Pure 

Lard in . . . . . . . 

Tlepces, 

Tubs. 

Pails aud Tins, 

Meats of all kinds, 

Fpesh and Salt.. 

Beef, Lamb, Veal and Pork, Vegetables and Fruits iiv- 
season. Wholesale and Retail. 

TELEPHONE 313 OR 7S0. 



A. S. & W. H. MASTERfVIArt 
2082^ Notre Dame Street, 

•M 

or 8, 9, lO, II and 12 St. Ann's Market m 



13 

IZ^ILiS OF FARE. 

MENU. 
DINNER. 



Raw Oysters. Vermicelli Soup. 

Baked Halibut or Salmon. Boiled Fowl, 

Vegetables in Season. Fried Mushrooms. 

Jellv and Coffee, 

Lemon Pie. Apple Custard Pie. 

Currant Ice. 



RECIPES FCR DINNER. 

Vermicelij Soup. — io three quarts of gravy soup, or 
■stock, add six ounces of vermicelli; simmer for half an hour; 
stir frequently. 

Baked Halibut or Sai'mon. — Let the fish remain in cold 
•water slightly salted, for an hour before it is time to cook. 
Place the gridiron on a dripping pan with a little hot water in 
it, and bake in a hot oven ; just before it is done, butter it well 
on the top and brown nicely. A small fish will bake in half 
an hour. Large one in an hour. They are very nice cooked 
in this way and served with a sauce made of the gravy in 
dri[)ping pan, to which is added a tablespoonful of catsup and 
juice of a lemon ; thicken with flour ; garnish with sprigs of 
parsley and jelly. 

Boiled Fowl. — Take a young fowl and fill the inside with 
•oysters ; place in a jar and plunge into a kettle of water ; boil 
for one hour and a half; there will be a quantity of gravy in 
the jar from the juice of the fowl and the oysters ; make this 
into white sauce with the addition of an egg, cream, or a little 
flour and butter ; add oysters, or serve up plain with the 
fowl. 

Apple Custard Pie. — Peel some apple , stew until tender 
. — (not too much water), put through colander ; for one pie 
take three eggs, one-third cup of butter, one-third sugar, 
flavor with lemon and nutmeg. Use only yolks of eggs for 
pie, use whites for a frosting sauce as for lemon pie. 

Jelly Lemon. — One paper of Lady Charlotte gelatine; 
let it stand one hour in warm water ; then add one quart of 
boiling water, juice of three or four lemons, and a pint and a 
half of sugar ; strain through flannel bag into moulds and set 
in a very coo' place. 



14 




BRING ME 



STR A CHANGS 



Gilt Edge Soap 



15 

MENU. 

• • • X Xv^^ * • • 

Biscuit. Clam Fritters. Chicken Salad. 

Cold Ham. Chocoj-ate Cake. 

Tapioca Cake. Wine Jelly. Velvet Cream» 
Coffee and Chocolate. 



RECIPES FOR TEA. 

Tea Biscuit. — One cup hot water, two of milk, three table- 
spoonfuls of yeast ; mix thoroughly ; after it is risen, take two- 
thirds of a cup of butter and a little sugar, and mould it. Then 
let it rise, and mould it into small cakes. 

Clam Fritters. — Twelve clams, chopped or not, one pint 
of milk, three eggs ; add liquor from clams ; salt and pepper,, 
and flour enough for a thin batter. Fry in hot lard. 

Chicken Salad. — Cut the meat of chickens into small bits 
size of peas. Chop the whole parts of celery about as small. 
Prepare a dressing thus : Rub the yolks of hard boiled eggs 
smooth ; to each yolk put half a teaspoon of mustard and 
salt, a tablespoonful of oil and a wine-glassful of vinegar. Mix 
the chicken and ceiery in a large bowl, and just before it is 
wanted for the table pour over the dressing ; a little cream 
may be added. 

Chocolate Cake. — Haifa cup butter, two cupfuls brown 
sugar, half a cup sour milk, one leaspoonful soda, two eg^s, 
about three cupfuls flour, and little over a quarter pound of 
chocolate dissolved in half a cup of hot water. Good. 

Tapioca Cake. — Three-quarters of a cup of butter, two 
cupfuls of sugar, one cupful sweet milk, two cupfuls flour, one 
cupful cornstarch, whites of six eggs, two teaspoonfuls Eagle 
Baking Powder. Filling for cake. — Two large tables poonfu Is 
of tapioca, s; ak all night in nearly a pint of water, boil until 
nearly clear, add two-thirds of a cup of sugar and pink sugar 
sand enough to color. Flavor with vanilla, and bake in four 
layers. 

Wine Jelly. — Half a box of Lady Charlotte Gelatine, pour 
over it a pint of boiling water, and stir till the gelatine is all 
dissolved, add two cupfuls sugar and juice of two lemons^ 
one teaspoonful of lemon extract and a pint of wine. When 
nearly cold, strain through flannel jelly bag into moulds, put 
in very cold place. 



16 

The Thompson Mattress Co. 

427 ST JAMES STREET 

MONTREAL 



... MANUiACTPREES OF THE 



FAMOUS SUSPENSION WOVEN 
WIRE AND SPIRAL SPRING . . 



BBDS AND COTS 



Mantel Beds .... ^^^ ^^^^^^ 
Folding Beds ... -"o 

1. on and Brass Beds " ' ®'*^* " ' 

5«J 5«f 1* 

Flock, Fibre, Moss and Hair Mattresses and 
Pillows, made to order and re-made 

* ^ ^ 

Always on hand a nice stock of all kinds of Bedding 
and Upholstered Goods. 



K.BP'^II^IISrGh IDOnSTE 



,A11 goods manufactured on the premises 

5R ^ rSf 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



17 



vOarioTte 



m 



SOUPS 



Soups can be made from fresh fish, flesh or fowl, 
vegetables, water or milk, and from odds and ends of 
all. Have always on hand whole and ground spices, 
sweet herbs, celery-seed, parsley, onions, carrots and 
turnips ; rice, barley, tapioca, corn starch and flour ; 
thicken and enrich. 

In seasoning soup, for every quart of water use a tear 
spoonful of salt, one-eighth as much black pepper, two or 
three pepper-corns, a pinch of celery -seed, a teaspoonful 
of mixed herbs, loose teaspoonful of parsley, half a pint 
of mixed vegetables. Vegetables, if not cooked before, 
go i.» with the meat. First fry the vegetab'es in a little 
Cottolene ; it gives a "tasty " flavor. 

In making stock, use a quart of water for every pound 
of meat and bone. Cut the meat in pieces, crack the 
bones, place all in the kettle, pour over it the proper 
quantity of cold water ; let it soak awhile on th:: back 
of the range before cooking. Let soup boil slowly,, 
never hard. Some lart apple is good in soup. When 
all is thoroughly done, strain through a sieve or coarse 
cloth ; do not squeeze the cloth. If too thick, thin be-' 
fore using. Soup stock can be kept several days in cold 
weather. Put the vegetables in the day you use it ; it 



FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

BATI8FA(TOBY AND E( ONOMIOAIj 

(Laundry Dppt ) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 DORCHBSTISB STREET. Telephone 1807 



leanacte 



18 
use- 



McCALIE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2J5 Cents Per Box 



keepj better without them. Never let the fat remain 
on your soup. Let it get col'l and lift it off, or sr.im it 
off if hot. 

Soup stock can be made clear by adding, whcr. eld. 
the white and shell of one egg for each quart of stock. 
Set it on the fire and stir till hot, let simmer ten minutes, 
then add a cup of cold water, and strain through a fine 
strainer or napkin. Serve with lemon shaved thin, 
croutons, force-meat balls, or hard yolk of egg. 

In thickening soups, use corn-starch or flour rubbed 
with Cottolene. Add catsup or sauces just before 
using. 

SOUP FOR SUET. 

MRS. G. B. WYLLIE. 
One teacupful pearl barley in about one pint co/cl 
water, bring to the boil till it swells, boil in a tin pail, 
in hot water, four quarts milk, put in your barley, and 
keep simmering for three or four hours, add, //len serv- 
ing, one teaspoon ful of salt. 

VEAL SOUP. 

To about three pounds of a joint of veal, which must 
be well broken up, put four quarts of water and set it 
over to boil. Prepare one-fourth pound of macaroni by 
boiling it by itself, with sufficient water to cover it ; add 
a little butter to the macaroni when it is tender ; strain 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

OORN SALVE 



WILZ REMOrB IT 



19 

AFTER THE FAC AND WORRY 
OF A DAY'S WORK 

Johnston's Fluid gccf 

n . SETS YeU UP . , . 



the soup, and season to taste with salt and pepper ; then 
add the macaroni in the water in which it is boiled. 
The addition of a pint of rich milk or cream and celery 
flavor is relished by many. 

POTATO SOUP FOR LENT. 

MRS. G. B. WYLLIE. 

Slice and fry to a nice brown four large onions in 
quarter pound of butter in your soup pot, add four 
quarts of skim milk, have pealed and boiled a good 
three pints of potatoes, mash them fine and reduce 
smooth with the milk from your soup pot ; repeat this 
till all the potatoes are in your soup pot ; just bring to 
a boil, and add pepper and salt to taste. 

OX TAIL SOUP, 

MISS BROKOVSKI. 
Take two ox tails and two whole onions, two carrots 
a small turnip, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a little 
white pepper, add a gallon of water, let all boil for two 
hours ; then take out the tails and cut the meat into 
small pieces, return the bones to the pot, for a short 
time, boil for another hour, then strain the soup, and 
rinse two spoonfuls of arrowroot to add to it with the 
meat cut from the bones, and let all boil for a quarter of 
an hour. 



EASe AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AJfD BEMOVM ^OUB OOJtlfS 



20 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USII\IQ . . , 

McC ALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALB KVERYWIIKRK 



BEEF i.OUP. 

MRS. \VM. H. LOW. 

Cut all the lean off the shank, and with a little beef 
suet in the bottom of the kettle, fry it to a nice brown ; 
put in the bones and cover with water ; cover the kettle 
closely ; let it cook slowly until the meat drops from 
the bones ; stra*'" '"hrough a colander, and leave it in the 
dish during the night, which is the only way to get off 
all the fat. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

ANONYMOUS. 

Take the turkey bones, and cook for one hour in 
water enough to cover them ; then stir in a little dress- 
ing and a beaten Qgg. Take from the fire, and when 
the water has ceased boiling add a little butter with 
pepper and salt. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Take one quart of water, one teacupful of butter, one 
pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of salt, four crackers rolled 
fine, and one teaspoonful of pepper ; bring to full boiling 
heat as soon as possible, then add one quart of oysters ; 
let the whole come to a boiling heat quickly, and remove 
from the fire. ' 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL BEMOVB IT 



2\ 



J^'' 



MONTSERRAT 



LIME FRUIT 

0^ iwiun I ocnnA I . . JUICE 

IN HOT WEATriER 

The ver- best of Temperate Drinks. To bo had ftom 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FO/? THE SUMMER 

BEAN SOUP. 

MRS. WHITEIUCAD. 

One pint beans, four quart; Water, small piece fat 
beef; boil three hours, and strain. If too thin, add one 
tablespoonful flour. 

POTATO SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Boil five or six potatoes with a small piece of salt pork 
and a little celery ; pass through a colander, and add 
milk or cream (if milk, a little butter) to make th- con- 
sistency of thick cream ; chop a little parsley fine, and 
throw in ; let boil five minutes ; cut some dry bread 
tn small dice, fry brown in hot lard ; drain them, and 
place in the bottom of soup tureen, and pour the soup 
over; chop two onions, and boil with the soup, if liked. 

FORCE MEATBALLS. 

MRS. JAMES S. GIBBS. 

Mix with one pound of chopped veal or other meat, 
one egg, a little butter or raw pork chopped fine, one 
cup or less of bread crumbs ; the whole well moistened 
^vith warm water, or, what is better, the water from 
stewed meat: season with salt and pepper; make in 
small balls and fry them brown. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use MeCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

Ain> BEMOrjB TOUR CORNS 



22 



Sponges, Ghamois, Toilet Soaps, Fine Perfumery 

. . . A-T . . . 

1078 
Notre Dame 8t. 



CHOI'S DBOG STOIE 



Bell Tel. 260C. Mepohanta Tel. 600 



MACARONI SOUP. 

Four pounds veal, four quarts cold water, one-quarter 
pound macaroni, lialf a pint crtam. 

To about four pounds of a joint of veal, which must 
be well broken up, add the cold water, and set to boil. 
Prepare the macaroni by boiling in a vessel by itself, 
with sufficient water to cover it. Add a small piece of 
butter to the mac aroni, when tender. Strain the soup, 
and season to taste with salt and pepper. Then add 
the macaroni with the cream and celery flavor. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

Haifa peck tomatoes, skinned and cut into small pieces, 
two onions cut fine, half a peck okra cut into rings, one 
chicken. 

Put all into a kettle with two quarts of cold water, 
pepper, salt, and a bunch of pot herbs ; let all cook four 
hours, having removed the chicken when ready to fall 
to pieces. When ready to send to table, throw in ? 
few slices of green garden oepper. 

PORTSMOUTH BEAN SOUP. 

One pound round of beef, half a pound salt pork, three 
hard-boiled eggs chopped, one quart black beans, four 
quarts water, one grated carrot, two chopped onions. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McC ALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wiltj bemove it 



23 



LUBY'S 



RESTORES 
THE 



HAIR 



Soak the beans over night ; chop beef and pork, and 
boil with beans, adding the carrot and onions. Boil 
five hours; strain, and add the eggs, salt and pepper to 
taste, and sliced lemon. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Take a haddock of three pounds, and cut up. Put in 
the bottom of a pot five or six slices of salt pork, fry 
brown, then add three onions, on which put a layer of 
fish, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and' put a layer of 
sliced potatoes. Season with salt, pepper and the juice 
of a lemon. Pour water over and let cook ; when nearly 
done, add half a gallon of milk and let scald. Just 
before dishing pour in a cup of tomato catsup. 

BISQUE OF OYSTERS. 

Fifty oysters, one pint stock, one teaspoonful onion 
juice, two tablespoonfuls corn starch, one pint hot cream 
or milk, two scant tablespoonfuls Cottolene, seasoning. 

Put the oysters on to boil in their own liquor, boil two 
minutes, drain, saving the liquor. Chop the white part 
of the oyster very fine, and press it through a sieve, add 
it to the oyster liquor, return it to the kettle ; add the 
stock, onion juice, and a bay leaf. Simmer gently for 
five minutes. Moisten two even tablespoonfuls of corn 



^ASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use MeCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



'I 

I'll 
4:'. 



illi 



leailaclie 



24 
USB- 



McGALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



9:S CjtitH 7»c>r Uffx 



starch in a little cold water, sti. it into the soup, stir un- 
til it thickens, add the hot cream or milk. Cottolene, and 
a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Do not boil 
after adding the milk, or the bisque will curdle, hisqu 
of clams m I y be made precisely in the same way, 

CLAM SOUP, WITH MILK. 

Fifty small clams chopped fine, two quarts milk, two 
tablespoonfuls Cottolene, two tablcspoonfuls flour, one 
teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt and caye;inc pepper 
to taste. 

Rub Cottolene and flour together till smooth, then 
add one cup milk. Place reniaining milk in a stew-pan, 
and when it comes to a boil, stir in briskly the flour and 
Cottolene. Let boil several minutes, then add the 
clams, and let all boil five minutes. Lastly, add parsley, 
and serve at once. 

All such ingredients of soup, as rice, vermicelli, maca- 
roni, etc., should be partially boiled in plain water be- 
fore being put into the liquor. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

MRS. D. 

Three or four pounds of veal cut fine, a little salt pork, 
two or three bunches of asparagus and three quarts of 
water. Boil one-half of the a^^paragus with the meat, 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILTj Muxorn IT 



26 



IT HAS BECOME A HOUSEHOLD NAME 

Johnston's Fluid Beef 



Every housekeeper should have some on hand 

leaving the rest in water until about twenty minutes be- 
fore serving; then add the rest of the asparapus, and 
boil just before serving ; add one pint of milk ; thicken 
with a little flour, and season. The soup should boil 
about three hours before adding the last half of the 
asparagus. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

ANONYMOUS. 

Four pounds of lean beef cut in small pieces, one-half 
peck of green peas, one gallon of water ; boil the empty 
pods of peas in the water one hour; strain them out; 
add the beef, and boil slowly one and one-half hours. 
Half an hour before serving strain out the meat and 
add the peas ; twenty minutes later add one-half cup of 
rice flour ; salt and pepper to taste ; and, if you choose, 
one teaspoonful of sugar. After adding the rice, stir 
frequently to prevent burning. 

JOHNSTON'S SOUP. 

Take half an onion, some celery, one carrot sliced, 
salt, pepper and a little mace. Boil in two quarts of 
water for half an hour, strain, and add two table- 
spoonfuls of Johnstop's Fluid Beef; stir, season to tuste, 
and serve. '. 



ROUGH DRY WASHINC-Something New 

SKND FOR PAKTIcrr-AItS 

(Lauiuiry Dept.) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
689 UORCHE8TBR STREET. Telephone 1807 



Liver 
Troubles 



26 

. . . CURED BY USINQ ... 

Butternut Pills 



rOR SALE KVERYWHBRE 



WHITE SOUP. 

Six tomatoes, four onions, four tablespoonfuls crushed 
tapioca, one and one-half pints milk, butter, pepper and 
salt, two quarts water. 

Boil the vegetables in the water till soft, rub through 
a sieve, return the paste to the water, add the tapioca, 
and boil fifteen minutes ; season, add the milk, and, as 
soon as hot, serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Haifa peck ripe tomatoes, four onions, six whole cloves, 
one teaspoonful fresh thyme, one tablespoonful flour. 
two teaspoonfuls Cottolene, one tablespoonful sugar, 
seasoning. 

Wash and quarter the tomatoes and onions ; place 
them in a kettle with the . cloves and thyme. Let all 
stew for half an hour, then rub through a wire sieve. 
Return juice to kettle, and add Cottolene, flour and sugar, 
with salt and pepper to taste. Let all cook three 
minutes, and serve with or without small cubes of 
toasted bread. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Pour two quarts of water un six or seven potatoes ; 
boil down ; take the potatoes up, mash, season, and 
return to the same water, with pepper, salt, an ounce of 
butter, one quart of sweet milk. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'8 

CORN SALVE 

AlfD REMOrX! TOUR CORNS 



27 



THE ORIENTAL . . 



"\ 



IMPORTER OF 



. . . CHOICK . . . 

Teas --^ Coffees 



418 ST. JAMES ST. 



J. W. DONOHUE, 

Proprietor 



fDontpeoI 



Tick is are given with each purchase 
Come aad see our beautiful presents 



SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO CONVENTS 









ijii i 



28 



/MONTSERRAT "^,S' 



IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart milk, one pint canned tomatoes, or one pint 
stewed tomatoes, three teaspoonfuls Cottolene, one bay 
leaf, sprig of parsley, blade of mace, one teaspoonful 
sugar, one-quarter teaspoonful baking soda, two table- 
spoonfuls flour. 

Put the tomatoes on to stew with the bay leaf, pars- 
ley and mace ; let them stew fifteen minutes, ^'ut the 
milk on to boil in a farina boiler. Rub Cottc ,• and 
flour together, add to the milk when boiling, and stir 
constantly until, it thickens. Now press the tomatoes 
through a sieve, and, if ready to use the soup, add the 
sugar and soda to the tomatoes and then the boiling 
milk. Stir and serve at once. It must not go on the 
fire after mixing the milk with the tomatoes, or it will 
separate. Ifyouarenot ready, let them stand on the 
fire separately, and mix them when wanted. 

POT-POURRI. 

I knuckle of veal ; corn cut from six ears ; i quart 

okra ; ^ peck tomatoes, skinned and cut into small 

pieces ; i small head cabbage ; 2 onions ; 2 carrots ; 2 

turnips ; thyme, parsley and summer savory — all 

.chopped fine. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMorx: IT 



29 



ESTABLISHED IBTA 



D. HATTOIV A GO. 

MONTREAL 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 



FISH 



Fish are good, when the gills are red, eyes are full, and 
the body of the fish is firm and stiff. After washing 
them well, they should be allowed to remain for a short 
time in salt water sufficient to cover them ; before cooki:";g 
wipe th-^m dry, dredge lightly with flour, and season 
v'ith salt and pepper. Salmon trout and other small 
fish are usually fried or broiled ; all large fish should be 
put in a cloth, tied closely with twine, and placed in cold 
water, when they may be put over the fire to boil. When 
fish are baked, prepare the fish the same as for boiling, 
and put in the oven on a wire gridiron, over a dripping 
pan. 

SUGGESTIONS AS TO FISH, POULTRY, ETC. 

MISS RILEY. 

Cod-Fish requires great care in cleaning, particularly 
in cleansing the back-bone from blood, which spoils its 
appearance, and sometimes renders it too unsightly for 
the table. Fishes that are to be dressed in their scales 
should be dipped in water, and rubbed with a coarse 
towel to remove the shine. All salt fish should be 
properly soaked in water, previous to cooking. It is 
asserted that a small proportion of sugar will keep fish 



D. 



HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

RECK^vKHB OP -pp-rg^-p:^-^ Etc. 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 



1874 



30 

ESTABLISHED lajA 

D. HATTON A GO. 

MONTREAL 

Freeh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Pish 

perfectly fresh for several days ; it also cures salmon 
and white fish with a little salt added to please the taste. 
Fresh water fish has often a muddy smell and taste ; to 
take this off, soak it in strong salt and water after it is 
nicely cleansed, then dry and dress it. 

BAKED BLACK BASS. 

MRS. r. B. AVER. 

Eight good sized onions chopped fine ; half that 
quantity of bread crumbs ; butter size of hen's Ggg ; 
plenty of pepper and salt ; mix thoroughly with anchovy 
sauce until quite red. Stuff your fish with this com- 
pound, and pour the rest over it, previously sprinkling 
it with a little red pepper. Shad, pickerel and trout 
are good the same way. Tomatoes can be used instead 
of anchovies, and are more economical. If using them, 
take pork in place of butter, and chop fine. 

FISH CUTLETS. 

Haifa pint milk, three teaspoonfuls Cottolene, three even 
tablespoonfuls flour, one egg yoik, one tablespoonful 
parsley chopped, one-quarter grated nutmeg, ten drops 
onion juice, two cups of cold boiled fish, seasoning. 

Put the milk on to boil. Rub together the Cottolene 
and flour, then stir them into the boiling milk, stir and 
cook until a thick paste is formed, add the yolk of egg, 

D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

USTABUaHEO RECEIVERS OP I | I I f ^ I "T "Tip—,^-^ 

Fr68b,FcoMn, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned VUiix 



'H 



31 

eSTABUSHED IBTA 

D. HATTON A GO. 

RECEIVERS OF 



IPISIi, Ei-O 



MONTREAL 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Sbell and Canned Finh 

parsley, onion juice ; mix and add the boiled fish ; mix 
again, and add palatable seasoning of salt and cayenne, 
turn out to cool. When cold, form into cutlets or cro- 
quettes. Dip first in beaten egg, then in bread-crumbs, 
and fry in very hot Cottoltnc. Drain on brown paper, 
and serve very hot with cream sauce. 

FRIED SMELTS. 

A person who has once fried smelts in Cottolene, 
AA'ill never under any circumstances use lard. 

Make a slight opening at the gills, then draw them 
between the thumb and finger, beginning at the tail. 
This will dress out all the inside. Now dip them first 
in beaten eggs, then in bread crumbs, and fry in very 
hot Cottolene. Drain, dust with salt, and serve smoking 
hot with sauce tartar. 

BREADED FISH. 

Ure any kind of fish that has been freed from skin 
and bor .. Cut it into small pieces about four inches 
long a^d three wide. Season well with salt and 
pepper ; then dip it in beaten egg and roll in dried 
bread crumbs. Arrange in the frying basket, but do 
not place one piece on top of another. Cook for three 
minutes and a half in Cottolene so hot that blue smoke 
rises from the centre of the fat. Serve with tartar sauce 
or black butter. 

Smelts are cooked in this manner. 

D. HATTON A CO., MONTREAL 

aaTABuaHeo Eeoeivers of I , I I '^"T'T" "ppTT^ 

Fresh, Frozen, .Sniokod, Dried, Qreen, Piokled, Boneless, Shell and Canned>Fi«h 



32 

ESTABUSHEO 187A 

D. HATTOH & 

^^^^IFISHI, Etc. 

MONTREAL 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, DrioJ, Oroen, Pick led, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fi«h 

FISH BALLS. 

One pint of shredded salt fish, ten potatoes of me- 
dium size, one egg. one tablespoonful of butter, one- 
quarter teaspoonful of pepper, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
Cottolene for frying. 

Have the salt codfish shredded rather fine and freed 
from bones. Pare the potatoes, and put them in a large 
stew pan. Sprinkle the fish over the potatoes, and cover 
with boiling water. Place on the fire, and cook for just 
thirty minutes. Drain off every drop of the water, and 
mash the fish and potatoes fine and light. Now add 
the butter, salt, pepper and the egg weU beiten. Beat 
for three minutes; then shape into smooth balls about 
the size of a small egg. Put into the frying basket, and 
fry until brown in Cottolene so hot t"hat blue smoke 
rises from the centre. It will take about five minutes to 
fry them. 

If it be inconvenient to use the frying basket the fish 
balls may be dropped into the hot fat, and, when browned, 
be taken out with a fork. Be sure that the fat is smoking 
hot, and do not crowd the fish balls. Six or eight will 
be enough to fry at one time. 

CODFISH BALLS. 
Three pounds white codfish, six potatoes, three tea- 
spoonfub Cottolene, one-half teaspoonful mustard, table- 
spoonful milk, cayenne to taste. 

D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL. 

mBTABuaHeo RnrEivERs of I | i I '^"FT" "R^TT^ 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Bonelese, Shell and Canned Fish 



33 

ESTABLISHED WTA 

D. HATTOnr A GO. 

gic|iy«s^or_-p-j-3-^^ Etc. 

MONTREAL 

Fresh. Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Bonelofls, Shell aiul CaniiiMl Fish 

Place the fish in a pan of water on back of stove over 
night. Next morning' separate and chop the fish. 
Have the potatoes well boiled and mashed with the 
Cottolene, the sa.ne as for table. Mix the mustard 
with the mik, and add with fish to the potatoes. Mix 
all tlioroughly together, and form into round balls with 
the hands ; boil in hot Cottolene, and serve the instant 
they are taken from the skillet. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

M. A. T. 

The same mixture as given for stuffed lobster, 
without the cream; made into pointed balls, dipped in 
Qgg, and then rolled in cracker, and fried in very hot 
lard ; served dry, and garnished with parsley. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

One hundred oysters ; one-quarter pound Cottolene 
one heaping tablespoonful flour, half a pint cream. 

Put the oysters ^in a stewpan with a few blades of 
mace, and let stew until the edges shiver. Make a 
sauce of the Cottolene and flour ; cook the liquor of the 
oysters, Cottolene and flour together, then add oysters 
and the cream. Let all simmer for a few minutes, but 
be careful not to let boil after ci'eam is added. 

D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

mSTABLISHED REOEIVKKS OF I | I I <^"r"T" "FPrn/'^i 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 

3 



'iljiM' 









m 

k 
iii 



'ill: 

,;v,,,. 



34 

ESTABLISHED ISTA 

D. HATTOH i& GO. 

RECEIVERS OF 



ZFZSH, Eto 



MONTREAL 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Driod. (Jrocii, Pickli'd, rSoiifloss, Shell and Canned Fish 

OYSTER PIE. 

One hundred oysters drained from the liquor, three 
hard-boiled eggs, two ounces Cott'lene ; half a cup bread- 
crumbs crumbled fine, pepper, salt and powdered mace. 

Line sides of a dish with pie crust, but not the bot- 
tom ; then to each layer of oysters sprinkle some of the 
mixture. Continue this until the dish is full, then cover 
with crust, and bake in a good oven for half an hour. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Uf' One hundred oysters, a handful of salt, half a cup 

lil'l vinegar, whole cloves, allspice and mace. 

;;,ijj: Stew the oysters in their own liquor until the ends 

curl, and then put in a colander to drain ; then throw in 
ice water with the salt. Strain the liquor and add the 
; I spices and vinegar. Hoil the liquor and spices together 

111 three minutes. Drain the oys'-ers a second time in the 

SB 111, 

colander, and, wheri all the salt and water has left, then 
put them in a stone jar, covering them with the spiced 
;jj||i liquor, and they will be ready for use as scon as perfectly 

cold. Add cayenne pepper to taste. 



OYSTER LOAF. 

Take a loaf of stale bread (baker's, or very light home- 
made), and remove all the crumbs, being careful that 

D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

B8TABUISHED RKCEIVERS OF -T-p~r"f-~i"|— 'p "r^—,-^ 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 



35 



ESTABLISHED IBTA 



D. KATTOnr & GO. 

^^^r°'' fish:, etc. 

MONTREAL 

Frcsli, Frozen, Sinokcil, Dried, (irccii, Pickli-d, ndtichms, Shell itnil Oiiiinetl Flili 

the loaf retains its proper shape. Jireak the crumbs up 
very fine, and dry slowly in a hot oven. Then fry 
three teacupfuls of them in as many scant tablespoonfuls 
hot Cottolene until they are crisp and light brown in 
color. Put a quart of rich milk over the fire, and when 
it boils stir in two spoonfuls of flour that has b-^^en wet 
up with a half cup of cold milk. Cook well, and season 
with pepper and salt. Put a layer of this inside the 
loaf, then a layer of oysters, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, and another of crumbs. Alternate until the 
loaf is full, letting the last layer be a thick one of crumbs. 
Bake slo'.ly half an hour. 

FllESH FISH CROQUETTES. 

Take the remnants of boiled or fried fish, with all skin 
and bone removed, or drain the oil f'-om a pound can 
of salmon, mince it fine, add a half teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of cayenne, a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Set 
a scant half tablespoonful of Cottolene over the fire;, 
when it begins to bubble add a heaped tablespoonful of 
flour, and =tii until the flour is cooked, but not brown, 
then add a gill of cream or milk, and lastly the fish, 
stirring until all is smooth ; if it is too thick, a little 
more milk. Make into pear shapes, with a wine glass 
for mold ; moisten with yolk of egg, roll in bread-crumbs, 
and fry. 



D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

Fr«8h, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless. Shell and Canned Fish 



B8TABL.ISHED 
137* 



36 

eSTABLISHBO IBT^ 



D. HATTOIff & GO. 

MONTREAL 

Fresh, Proison, Smoked, Dried, (irciii. f'iekli d, HoiielenH, Shell nnrt Cniiiied Fish 



CHOWDl'R. 

MRS. 1'. B. AVER. 

Five pounds of codfish cut in sciuares; fry plcnt»' of 
salt pork cut in thin slices ; put a layer of pork in your 
kettle, then one of fish, one of potatoes in thick slices, 
and one of onions in slices; plenty of pepper and salt; 
repeat as long as your materials last, and finish with a 
layer of Boston crackers or crusts of bread. Water 
sufficient to cook with, or milk if you prefer. Cook one- 
half hour, and turn over on your platter, disturbing as 
little as possible. Clams and eels the same way. 

STEWED TERRAPIN. 

Two terrapins, half a pint think cream, six eggs, half 
a pound butter, one gili sherry or Madeira wine, one- 
quarter teaspoonful mace ; salt and cayenne to taste. 

Put the terrapins alive in boiling water and boil ten 
or fifteen minutes, or until you can pull off the outer skin 
and the toe nails. Put them back in fresh boiling water ; 
add a heaping teaspoonful of salt, and boil slowly until 
the s ..s part easily and the flesh on the legs is quite 
tender. When done, take out, remove the under shell, 
and let stand until cool enough to handle. Then take 
them out of the upper shells ; carefully remove the sand 
bags, bladders, the thick, heavy part of the intestines, 

D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 



37 

D. HATTOiff & CO. 

RECEIVERS OF 



MONTREAL 

Kr<-nli.Fro7.<Mi,Sni()k<'<l, Prictl, Ci ii, ri<-kli<l, niiii.li-sR, SlwMl and Cuiint'tl Ffsh 



and the gall sacks, which are found embedded in one 
lobe of the liver, and throw them away. In removing 
the gall sack, be careful not to break it, as it would spoil 
the whole terrapin. Break the terrapin in convenient 
sized pieces ; cut the small intestines into tiny pieces 
and add to the meat ; now add the liver broken up, also 
all eggs found in the terrapins. Now put it into a stew- 
ing-pan with the juice it has given out while being cut. 
Roll the butter in flour, add it to the terrapin, and 
«^^Md in a very moderate fire until heated. Boil the six 
eggs for fifteen minutes; take out yolks; mash to a 
smooth paste with two tablespoon fuls of the wine, then 
add this, thecreamand seasoning to the terrapin ; let it 
boil up once ; takr irom fire, add wine, and serve. It must 
never be boilec after adding wine. Add more or less 
wine to taste. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Twelve nice heavy crabs, half a pint cream, two table- 
spoonfuls flour, one- quarter grated nutmeg, four egg 
yolks boiled hard, one tablespoonful each of salt, butter 
and chopped parsley ; salt and cayenne to taste. 

Put the crabs in warm water ; add the salt, and put 
the kettle over a brisk fire. Boil thirty minutes. Take 
up and drain ; break off all claws ; separate the shells; 
remove the spongy fingers and the stomach, which is 



D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

ESTABLISHED RECEIVERS OS< 

1874 



FISH, Eto. 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, I'ickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 



; li!! 



38 

ESTABLISHmO 187^ _ 

D. HATTOnr A GO. 

«ECE.vE,8 or :pxST3:, Etc. 

MONTREAL 

KrcHli. Krozfii, Sinokcil, DrIiMl, (irccn, I'ickli'il, llonrlt'fi.s, Slirll iiiid ('iiiiiicil FIsli 

found under the head. Pick out all the meat. Tut the 
cream on to boil, rub butter and flour together, and add 
to the boilinfj cream ; stir and cook two minutes. 1 ake 
from the fire, add the crab meat, the cg[f yolks m.ished 
fine, parsley, nutme;^, salt and cayenne. Clear tlic 
upper shells of the crabs, fill them with tlie mixture, brush 
over with beaten eg<T, cover with bread crumbs, and put 
in a quick oven to brown ; or better, put them in a fr- - 
ing basket and plunge into boiling Cottolene until a 
nice brown, 

STUFFED CRABS. 

Boil crabs, and when cold pick meat carefully from 
shells ; to this meat add one-third as much fine bread 
crumbs as you have meat, butter, a small quantity cay- 
enne pepper and a little dried thj-me ; add enough 
sweet cream to make the mixture moist. Carefully 
wash and scrub the shells, an ; when carefully wiped, 
fill with the crab meat. Dust the tops with cracker dust, 
and fry in hot Cottolene. 

STEWED LOBSTl'R. 

Cut the lobster fine ; put it in a stew-pan with a lictle 
milk or cream. Boil up once, add one tablespoonfui but- 
ter, a little pepper, and serve plain or on toasted crack- 
ers. Cook lobster just long enough to heat it, as a longer 
cooking renders it tough. 

D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

Fresb, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Bonclesa, Shell and Canned Fish 



8!) 



T. E. & A. MARTIN 



* 



Fariiitflre am Beddiii^ 

SOLD FOR CASH OR ON EASY TERMS OF 
PAYMENT TO RESPONSIBLE PERSONS . . 



i» ^ ^ 

1924 NOTRE! DAME ST. 

OPEN EVERY EVENING TILL 9 O'CLOCK 



t^^^K^^J^Sf'. 



■KOl- '>^i> -tOl> ''O' - 

.4. <...,.^,..,,5.. 







REMEMBER THE ADDRESS: 

1924 NOTRE DAME ST. 

A few doors v^est of Balmopal Hotel 



^ ^ ^ 



T. E. & A. MARTIN 



40 

IP'' ESTABLISHED 1874 

D. HATTOIff A GO. 

^."."^^J' fish:, Etc. 

MONTREAL 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, (ireeii, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 

BROILED WHITE FISH— FRESH. 

Ilj,:' MRS. G. E. 1'. 

Wash and drain the fish ; sprinkle with pepper, and 
lay with the inside down upon the gridiron, and broil 
over fresh bright C( a!s. When a nice brown, turn for 
a moment on the other side, then tpke up and spread 
•' with butter. This is a very nice way of broiling all 

kinds of fish, fresh or salted, A little smoke under the 
fish adds to its flavor. This may be made by putting 
two or three cobs unler the gridiron.' 

;:l ; 

BOILED FISH. 

Small fish for boiling may be put into boiling salted 
water; large fish, or large pieces offish should be put 
over the fire in cold water ; boiled fish is done when the 
flakes begin to separate, or when a fin can easily be 
pulled from a large fish ; boiled fish is usually served 
on a folded napkin, with a bowl of sauce ; if the sauce 
is poured over the fish, of course the napkin is not used ; 
parsley or lemon are good garnishes for boiled fish. 

If there is no fish-kettle with a drainer, it is best to 
tie up the fish in cloth before boiling it, in order to 
take it up v/ithout breaking it. Use any good table 
sauce for boiled fish. 

D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

MBTABLISHSD RECEIVERS OF I | I I '^'T"T' "TT'«X'<'^ 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Tickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fisll 



■ * 



41 

ESTABLISHED fB74 

D. HATTON & GO. 

RECEIVERS OF 



MONTREAL 

Fresh, Prozon, Smoked, Dried, (Ircen, Pickled, BoiudeM, Shell and Canned Fish 

BAKED RED SNAPPER. 

For a red snapper weighing five pounds, use one pint 
of oysters, half a cupful of powdered cracker crumbs, 
half a teaspoonful of onion juice, half a teaspoonful of 
pepper, four tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and flour for dredging. 

Chop the 03'sters very fine ; then add to them the 
powdered cracker, one generous tablespoon ful of butter, 
one-quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, one teaspoonful 
of salt, and parsley. Mix all thoroughly, and let the 
mixture stand until the fish is ready. Now cut the fins 
from the fish, and see that there are no sciles left on- 
Wash quickly in cold water. 

Rub one tablespoonful of the salt into the fish, and 
then pack the stuffing into the vent. Fasten the open- 
ing with steel skewers, or sew it together. 

Have a flat tin sheet well buttered, and place it, but- 
tered side up, in a large dripping-pan. L.ay the fish on 
this, and dredge lightly with sal<", pepper and flour. 
Pour ha'f a pint boiling water into the pan and place it 
in a hot oven. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and 
place on the fire. VVhei the butter becomes hot, add 
the flour, and stir until it is brown. Now draw the pan 
back, and gradually add cne pint of cold water. Let 
this boil for five minutes, and turn it into a small basin 
and keep it hot on the back of the range. This is for 



D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

ESTABLISHED RECEIVERS OP I . I I *^^ 'T"" T " ^VT^m/"^ 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 



42 

ESTABLISHED 1874- 

D. HATTOIff A GO. 

RECE.VERS O. pHJ^-gJ^ ETC. 

IVBONT»?EAL 

Fresh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, (Jroon. Pickled, Boiifless, Shell and Canned Fish 

basting the fibh. Begin at once, and use about one- 
fourth of the sauce; then dredge lightl)^ with salt, pep- 
per, and flour. Baste again in ten minutes, and twice 
more in the next half-hour. The water in the pan will 
need renewing with every basting. It will take the fish 
one hour to cook. Serve with a brown or Madeira 
sauce. Any of the simpler sauces will answer, if more 
convenient. (Cottolene may be used instead of buiter.) 

BARBECUE OF MACKEREL. 

Scale and wash a fresh mackerel of medium size, split 
it down the back, take out tiie back-bone, lay the fish 
skin down in the pan just large eivar^h to hold it, 
sprinkle it with two saltspoonfuls of salt and quarter of 
a saltspoonful of pepper, lay on it two table>poonfuls of 
buiter and set it in front of a clear fire, where no ashes 
can fall upon it ; let it brown, basting it every two min- 
utes with the butter which will melt and run into the 
pan ; as soon as it is brown, set the pan over the fire for 
five minutes, and then put the fish in a lar;^e deep plat- 
ter and keep it hot. Stir into the pan in which it was 
browned a tablespoonful ot flour, and set it over the fire 
to brown ; as soon as it is brown, stir with'a pint of boil- 
ing water, a saltspoonful of salt and a quarter of a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and let it boil two minutes, stirring 
it constantly ; then pour this sauce over the fish, and 
serve it 'lOt. 

D. HATTON & CO., MONTREAL 

BSTABLISHED RKCEIVEUS OP ' I | I I *^"T"T T^^ q-|/^->l 

Presh, Frozen, Smoked, Dried, Green, Pickled, Boneless, Shell and Canned Fish 



^ 




z 




v 








^ 




% 








) 








.1 




^ 




f 




i? 




v> 








( 








,1 





43 



OPOTTE 



MEATS 



When cutting meat to conk, always cut across the 
grain of the muscle. 

Never wash fresh meat before roasting ; scrape it, if 
necessary to clean it. If it has been wet or moist, wipe 
it thoroughly dry before cooking. 

Never put meit directly on the ice ; pnt it in a vessel 
on the ice. 

If }'ou baste roast meats, do not use si't in the bast- 
ing ; salt the meat when removed from the oven. 

Salt and season boiling meats while cooking. 

In boiling, put fresh meats in hot water, and salt 
meats in cold water; boil both slowly. 

Never salt and pepper broiling me its while cooking. 
Season with salt, pe[)per and butter alter removing 
from the gridiron. 

An ordinary pan is good for broiling ; heat very hot; 
use no fat of any kind ; put the meat flat on the pan, 
turn rapidly and often, and you will find a " pan broil" 
very good ; season when done. 

ROAST BP:EF with VORKSHIRK PUD- 
DING. 
When roasting a piece of beef, set it up on a cricket 
or muffin ring.s, so that the juice will drop into the pan 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

A^TD REMOVE TOUR CORNS 



44 



leanacne 



USE- 



McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



S3 Cents JPoi- Bax 



1! 



below; three-quarters of an hour before it is done, mix 
up the following and pour into the pan under the meat : 
one pint of milk, four egg.^ oeaten very light, pinch of 
salt, one cup of flour. Cut in pieces and serve with the 
roast. 

STUFFED STEW OF BEEF. 

Take three pounds from upper side of round. Make 
gashes in the meat about two inches long and almost 
through it. Mix one-fourth of a teaspoonful of black 
pepper, one-fourth of a teasp onful of nutmeg, one-iialf 
teaspoonful of allspice, one-fourth teaspoonful of cloves, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Mix one cup of bread- 
crumbs, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and one 
tablespoonfu! of butter (melted) together. Rub the 
meat on both sides with the spices, and put the remainder 
in the gashes. Fill the gashes nearly full with the 
bread-crumbs. Cut one-fourth of a pound of larding 
pork into pieces the size of the gashes, and work them 
down with the crumbs. Now tie the meat around with 
a piece of twine to hold in the filling. Put it in a sauce- 
pan, and cover with a gravy made as follows: Put one 
tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan and let it brown ; 
add one tablespoonful of flour and mix well ; then add 
one quart of stock, stir until it boils ; then add one 
tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, one of tomato cat- 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMOVt: IT 



45 



IF YOU SPEAt. OF- 

THE GEEAT STRENGTH-GIVER 



Everyone knows 
you refer to . . . 



JOHNSTON'S FLUID BEEF 



sup, one of Worcestershire sauce, one onion, and one 
bay leaf, and pour it over the meat ; simmer gently 
three hours. Then take the meat out, put it in a baking- 
pan, pour over two tablespoonfuls of glaze or gravy, 
and put it in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes to 
brown. Then dish and strain the gravy over and 
around it. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

One-quarter pound dressed beef cut as thin as Sara- 
toga potatoes, three ounces butter and Cottolene mixed, 
two teacupfuls milk, one tablespoonful flour. 

Place butter in skillet over moderately hot fire ; when 
it commences to brown, add beef, rmd sift the flu'ir in 
gradually ; let all cook till the flour looks brown, but l>!» 
careful not to scoich, then add milk, stirring all the 
time, till the dressing has cooked to consistency of rich 
cream. This is a delicious breakfast relish, and the 
mixture is admirable to be eaten with griddle cakes. 

BRAISED BEEF'S TONGUE. 

Wash the tongue, put it into a kettle and cover with 
boiling water ; simmer gent'y for two hours. Then take 
out the tongue, skin it, trim off the rough pieces at the 
roots, and remove the bones. Now tie the tip of the 
tongue around to the side of the thicker part; fasten 



MANGLED WORK BY THE POUND 

SKN1> roil PAKTICl'LABS 

(LaumlryDepU The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DORCHESTKB HTREKT. Telephone 1807 



-^ 



46 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOlt S.Vl,R KVERYWnEBK 



it. Now put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan 
and brown it, then add two tables loonfuls of flour, mix 
well ; then add one quart of stock or the water in which 
the tongue was boiled, one onion, one carrot, one tur- 
nip, one potato, sliced, a sprig of parsley, two bay 
leaves, a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and a 
tablespoonful of inushioom catsup; stir uniil it boils. 
Put the tongue in a baking or braising pan, pour this 
sauce around it ; if in a baking pan, c^ver ; put it in the 
oven two hours, basting every fifteen minutes. When 
done, dish the tongue, remove the strings. Boil the 
sauce until reduced to one pint, pour it over and around 
the tongue, and serve. 

BEEF'S TONGUE BOILED. 

Wash a large, perfectly fresh tongue in three waters. 
Then cover well with boiling water ; a little salt — 
plenty of it — and cook about twelve minutes to the 
pound. Strip off the skin ; dish, when you have trimmed 
away the root, pour over it the following sauce : Strain 
a cup of liquor in which the tongue was boiled ; set over 
the fire, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter cut up 
in flour, pepper to taste ; the juice of a lemon, and when 
this has thickened, two small pickled cucumbers 
chopped. This is a dish whose merits deserve to be 
better known. (Save the liquor.) 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND KEMOVE YOUR CORNS 



47 

^^JAMTcrnn AT" lime fruit 



•MONTSERRAT 



o^ ifiuii I ocnnn i . . juice 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 

MOCK DUCK. 

Spread dressing, as for a turkey, on a thick round of 
beefsteak ; season, roll up, tie, and roast ; baste often. 
Serve witii j^ravy. ' 

BEEF HEART. 

In the forenoon, put the heart into a weak brine. In 
the evening change to another briric. In the morning, 
put to cook in boiling water, and cook fully three hours. 
When tender, have ready a dressing of bread crumbs, 
mixed with melted Cottolene, and pepper and salt, 
and stuft" it. h'ut it in an oven twenty minutes, to cook 
the dressing. Let get cold, and slice very thin ; season 
with a little salt and pepper, if necessary. 

ROAST TRIPE. 

Take three pounds of tripe, stuff it with bread chopped 
fine, a piece of Cottolene, salt and pepper. Lay it over 
the tripe with a spoon. Then roll it over the narrowed 
length, so that the dressing will be in folds. Put in a 
baking pan, and roast for an hour, basting with hot 
water and Cottolene. 

ROASTED CALF'S LIVER. 
Three teacupfuls bread crumbs, two onions chopped 

FAMILY WASHING OUR SPECIALTY 

(Laundry Dept) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO.' 

589 DOBCHKST1GR STREET. Telepbone 1807 



48 



leanacne 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



*JIS Cents l*er Box 



fine, one egg, butter size of an egg, three ounces of 
Cottolene, one pint water, .seasor»tMg. 

Skin the liver and take out the hirger veins ; score 
across almost an inch apart and quite deep,but not entirely 
through the liver. Make a filling of the bread crumbs, 
onions, egg and butter, and season with pepper, high 
salt, sweet marjoram, thyme and parsley. Fill all the 
scores with the filling. Baste with a dressing made of 
the Cottolene, water and a little seasoning. Baste well. 
Bake two hours in a good oven, and baste well. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. 

Six chops, one egg, one teaspoon ful salt, one-quarter 
teaspoonful pepper, one-half a pint dried bread crumbs; 
Cottolene for frying. 

Put Cottolene in the frying-kettle about four inches 
deep, and heat slowly. Have the chops cut about an 
inch thick. Season them with the salt and pepper^ 
then dip them in the beaten Qgg and roll in the bread 
crumbs. When the fat is smoking hot, put in the cut- 
lets, and cook them for six minutes. After they have 
been cooking for one minute, set the kettle where the 
heat is not so great, yet where the fat will be nearly as 
hot as when over the coals. Drain the cutlets on brown 
paper and serve on a hot dish with tomato sauce. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 



CORN SALVE 



WIZTj RMMOVIS IT 




49 

. . . FAniLY RECrPES . . . 

S""'"^ J, H. F. Cterron's 

1978 NOTRE DAME ST. 

Bell Tel. 2595 Merchants Tel. 500 

One slice of mutton, from the leg, cut about an inch 
thick, and cooked in one piece, may be substituted for 
the chops. Veal cut half an inch thick may be prepared 
in the same manner, but should be cooked for ten min- 
utes. 

MUTTON HAGGIS. 

Chop the uncooked heart, tongue, and half of the 
liver of a sheep, and mix with them one-half their weight 

- in chopped bacon ; add a half-cup of stale bread-crumbs, 
: the grated rind of one lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, one- 

1 quarter teaspoonful of black pepper, and two well-beaten 
M ^SS'' ; pack this into a well-buttered mould, cover, place 
f it in a kettle partly filled with boiling water, and boil 
t slowly for two hours. When done, turn it on a dish, 
and serve it plain, or with Sauce Bechamel. 

BAKED PORK AND BEANS. • 

Soak one quart of pea beans in cold water over night. 

In the morning put them into fresh cold water, and 

simmer till soft enough to pierce with a pin, being care- 

f ful not to let them boil enough to break. If you like, 

; boil one onion with them. When soft, turn them into 

^ a colander, and pour cold water through them. Place 

them with the onion in a bea.i pot. Pour boiling 

f water over one-quarter of a pound of salt pork, part fat 

. . SEND FOR OUR FRIGES FOR . . 

— KAMI1,Y WXHmiSG 

I (Laundry Dept.^ The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 DOKCH ESTER STREET. Telephone 1807 



Liver 
Troubles 



50 
... CURED BY USINQ . . . 

McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALB KVKRYWnERE 



and part lean ; scrape the rind till white. . Cut the rind 
in half-inch strips ; bury the pork in the beans, leaving 
only the rind exposed. Mix one teasjoonful of salt — 
more, if the pork is not very salt — and one teaspoonful 
of mustard with one-quarter of a cup of molasses. Fill 
the cup with hot water, and when well mixed pour it 
over the beans ; add enough more water to cover them. 
Keep them covered with water until the last hour ; then 
lift the pork to the surface and let it crisp. Bake eight 
hours in a moderate oven. Use more salt and one-thiid 
of a cup of butter if you dislike pork, or use half a pound 
of fat and lean corned beef 

The mustard gives the beans a delicious flavor, and 
also renders them more wholesome. Many add a tea- 
spoonful of soda to the water in which the beans are 
boiled, to des*^roy the acid in the skin of the beans. 
Yellow-eyed beans and Linvi beans are also good when 
baked. 

Much of the excellence of baked beans depends upon 
the bean-pot. It should be earthen, with a narrow 
mouth and bulging sides. This shape in seldom found 
outside of New England, and is said to have been mo- 
delled after the Assyrian pots. In sp'^-.e of the slurs 
against " Boston baked beans," it is often remarked 
that strangers enjoy them as much as natives, and many 
a New England bean-pot has been can ied to the extreme 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S f 

CORN SALVE « 



AJvn RUMovE xolTtr Corns 



51 



WH 



Send your CURTAINS to the Laundry 
when you can do th^ni as well by using 

CILRAY*8 

Lace Curtain Stretchers 

(New Patent Folding) 

PRICES, 83.60 and $4.00 



^ 



a 




•5^ 



Carpet Sweepers, from $2.00 to $5.60 



I Washing Machines, Clothes Wringers^ 
i Mangles, Cutlery, 

RAZORS Stamped "L. J. A. SURVEYER' 

* ARE WARRANTED 



ALSO 



]|itchen Utensils in Aluminium, Agate Ware, &c. 



mch Cooks' Knives and Fancy French Moulds 

A LARGE VARIETY 






fOLESALE AND RETAIL AT 



^ET" 



1 L. J. A SURVEYER'S 

4| IRON MONGER, 

^ St, Lawrence Main Street, MONTREAL 



^M^ 



52 



peadacie 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



Sa ContM l*or Hox 



South and West, that people there might have " baked 
beans " in perfection. They afford a nutritious and 
cheap food for people who labor in the open air. 

ENGLISH PORK-PIE. 

Make a pie-crust, not very rich, and put around the 

sides of a deep pie dish. In the bottom, and above, put 

layers of thin sliced bacon, thin .sliced potatoes, onions 

chopped or sliced very fine, lean fresh pork cut into 

small pieces. Season with pepper, salt and sage. Fill 

the dish with any good gravy left from roasts or with 

water thickened for the occasion, with some butter 

added. Cover with crust, and baked about half an hour. 

Cover the pie with thick brown paper if it gets too 

brown, 

TO STEW PORK. 

Take a nice piece of the leg of fresh pork ; rub it 
with a little salt and score the skin. Put it into a pot | 
with sufficient water to cover it, and stew it gently for 
two hours or more, according to its size. Then putl 
into the same pot a dozen or more sweet potatoes, 
scraped and split and cut in pieces. Let the whole ste\v3 
gently together for an hour and a half, or till all is tho-l 
roughly done. This stew will be found very good. For! 
sweet potatoes you can substitute white ones mixcd^ 
with slicec. turnips, or parsnips scraped and split. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVi 



WILT, JtJEMOrX! IT 



ftH 



LUBY'S HAIR 



GBOW£B and 
RESTORER . . 



SOUSE OF PIGS' FKET. 

Put the pijTs' feet and ears, when well cleaned, over 

the fire in cold water. Boil till tender ; pour over 

them in ajar a pickle made of cider vinegar, whole pep- 

jpers, cloves and macf, hoiling hot. They will be ready 

to eat in three days or less. 

STUFFED HAM. 

One pound bread crumbs, five ounces Cottolene 
^ one teaspooiiful each of cloves, allspice, nutmeg, gin- 
M ger, mace, celery and salt, half a teacupful su^ar, two 
large tablespoonfuls mustard, six eggs well beaten, one 
boiled ham. 

Mix the above ingredients and moisten with cream. 
Gash your ham while hot, fill in with the dressing. 
Rub over with the white of an egg, sugar and grated 
crackers. Set in the stove to brown. 

P ACON FRAZE. 

Beat four eggs into a batter with one- half teacupful 
cream and tcaspoonful flour ; fry some thin slices of 
bacon and dip iuem in it ; lay the bacon in a frying-pan 
with heated Cottolene, pour the batter over it, and when 
both sides are well browned lay on a heated dish and 
[Serve hot. A good breakfast relish. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND ItEMOrX! JTOUR '^OBNS 



54 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOJt SALB Kir.RTWIIKRF. 



MOCK CHICKEN B01LP:D. 

Take the end part of the leg of young pork with the 
foot attached. Have the bone taken out of the leg, and 
put a stuffing, either of potato or bread, with sage, thyme 
or sweet marjoram in the empty space. Roil the 
meat in a long c'oth, tie securely at the end. and set it 
over the fire, covered with coUi water ; as the water boils 
the heat is reduced until it only simmers, and this gentle 
cooking is continued for two hours ; the pot is then 
removed from the hottest {)art of the fire, and the pork 
allowed to stand for twenty minutes in the l)roth in 
which it was boiled, or after you lake it from the cloth, 
brown it for a short time in the oven, which brings out 
all its gelatinous sweetness. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 
Cut them niceU', clearing away all ragged ends and 
edges ; fry for a few moments, covered closel}", and then 
dip each piece in cracker crumbs and Leaten egg, or you 
may prepare them as for frying ; then lay them in a 
dripping pan, and put into the oven to bake ; baste 
frequently with a Utile melted butter and water. 

ROAST VEAL. 

MRS. D. S. F. 
Prepare a leg of veal for the oven, by w ashing, drying, 
and larding it with strips of fat bacon or ham, and 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



4. 



WILL REMOVE IT 



55 




dredging it ell with flour, and seasoning with salt and 
pepper ; baste frequently, and ser\^e with the gravy 
thickenod. A roast illet of veal should be p'epaied by 
stuffing it with bread crumbs, seasoned with chopped 
ham, summer savory, pepper and salt. Dredge lightly 
with flour, and bake. 

NECK PIl'XE OR SHOULDER OE VEAL. 

MRS. C. C. STRATTOX. 
Put a piece of butter the size of an eiig into a kettle ; 
put it on the stove ; when it begins to fry, put in the 
veal, season it and let it fry until brown, then add water 
sufficient to cook it. When done, take cream and flour 
well stirred, and thicken as for fricasseed chicken, and 
you have a nice dinner, very liKe chicken, and mucl^ 
cheaper. Two pounds of veal will make a dinner for six 
or eight, providing it is not all bone. 

BOILED LEG OF MUITON. 

Boil well in clear water until tender, seasoning the 
water with salt ; serve with egg sauce, and garnish with 
parsley, sliced lemons, or some sour jelly. 

BOILED T0NGU1':WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

MRS. J. ELLIS. 
Half boil a tongue, then stew it with a sauce made of 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND BEOtOVE YOUH CORNS 



56 



geadaciiB 



USE- 



McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



2S Cents Per Box 



a little broth, flour, parsley, one small onion, one small 

carrot, salt and pepper, and one can of tomatoes cooked 

and strained. Lay the tongue on a dish, and strain the 

sauce over it. 

VEAL CAKE. 

MISS BROKOVSKI. 
Butter your mould, then put in a layer of veal and 
ham, cut in thin slices, season it with cayenne, salt, a 
little beaten mace, some parsley, and a very little shalot, 
some eggs boiled hard and cut in slices ; press it down 
and bake it, make a little veal gravy with a few shreds 
of isinglass, strain it, and add a small quantity of catsrp, 
pour it over hot, when cold turn it out. 

BOILED AND BAKED HAM. 

MRS. P. B. AVER. 
Boil your ham tender ; cover it with the white of a 
raw egg, and sprinkle sugar or bread crumbs over it ; 
put it in the oven and brown ; it is delicious also covered 
with a regular cake icing and browned. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

M. A. T. 

Boil the veal tender, pick it up fine, put in a mould, 
add the water it was boiled in, and set it in a cold place ; 
season with salt and pepper to taste ; a layer of hard 
boiled eggs improves it. 

FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

8ATI8FACTOKY AND ECONOMICAL 

(Lawndry Dppt ) Tho MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DOBCH£ST£B STBE£T. Telephone 1807 



57 



MONTSERRAT 



LIME FRUIT 
. . JUICE . . 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 

FRICANDEAU. 

MRS. J. M. BROWN AND MRS. M. L. 

Three and one-half pounds of cold roast veal chopped 
fine, one tablespoonful of salt and one of pepper, one-half 
of a nutmeg, four or five rolled crackers, three eggs. If 
the veal is thin, add a piece of butter half as large as 
an egg, and a tablespoonful of cream. Form all this in a 
large roll, and spot the roll over with bits of butter ; then 
strew over it the pounded crackers (a little of the cracker 
should be mixed with the meal), put it in the oven, and 
from time to time add a little water. Cook slowly two 
hours. When cold, slice thin, and it makes an excel- 
lent relish. 

SWEET BREADS. 

Scald in salt and water, take out the stringy parts ; 
then put in cold water a few minutes ; dry in a towel ; dip 
in an egg and bread crumbs, and fry brown in butter ; 
when done place on a hot dish ; pour into the pan a cup 
of sweet cream, a little pepper and salt, and a little pars- 
ley chopped fine ; add flour, and when boiling pour over 
the sweet breads ; add mushrooms, if desired. 

TRAVELLING LUNCH. 

MRS. J. L. B. 
Chop sardines, ham, and a few pickles .quite fine- 
mix with mustard, pepper, catsup, salt, and vinegar; 
spread between bread nicely buttered. This is to be 
cut crosswise, like jelly cake. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

wiltj remove it 



58 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOK SALX! ICVKRY WHERE 



BAKED HAM. 

MRS. W. G. DAVIS. 

Most persons boil ham. It is much better baked, if 
baked right. Soak it for an hour in clean water and 
wipe it dry, next spread it all over with thin batter, and 
then put it into a deep dish with sticks under it to keep 
it out of the gravy. When it is fully done and the bat- 
ter crusted on the flesh side, take off«the skin and set it 
away to cool. 

BOILED HAM. 

MRS. C. WACiGONER. 

Take a ham weighing about eigiit or ten pounds; 
soak it for twelve or twenty-four hours in cold water ; 
then cover it with boiling water, add one pint of vinegar, 
two or three bay-leaves, a little bunch of thyme and 
parsley (the dried and sifted will do, or even the seeds 
of parsley may be used, if the fresh cannot be procured) ; 
boil very slowly two hours and a half, take it out, skim 
it, remove all the fat, except a layer half an inch thick ; 
cut off with a sharp knifeall the black-looking outside; 
put the ham into your dripping pan, fat side uppermost, 
grate bread crust over it, and sprinkle a teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar over it ; put it in the oven f )r half an 
hour, until it is a beautiful brown. Eat cold ; cut the 
nicest portion in slices ; the ragged parts and odds and 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

A\D REMOVE TOUR CORNS 



■?«f. 



59 



leadaclie 



USE- 



McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



2S CentM Per Box 



ends can be chopped fine and used for sandwiches ; or, 
by adding three eggs to one pint of chopped ham, and 
frying brown, you have :. deh'cious omelette for break- 
fast or lunch. The bones should be put in a soup- 
kettle, the rind and fat should be rendered and strained 
for frying potatoes and crullers. Ham cooked in this 
way will go much farther thin when cooked in the 
ordinary manner. 

TO ROAST VENISON. 

MRS. PORTER. 

Wash a saddle of venison thoroughly in several waters 
then rub it over with vinegar, red pepper, and a little 
salt; lard with strips of salt pork rolled in seasoned 
bread crumbs; seison, if you like, with >wcet marjoram 
and sweet basil, one tca^poonful each, also pepper ; then 
rub the whole with currant jel'y, and pour over it one 
bottle of claret wine. Let it stand all night, ami next 
morning cover the venison with a paste made of flour 
and water half an inch thick ; then cover with a soft 
paper, and secure well with strings ; place it in the 
dripping-pan with some claret, butter, and water, and 
baste very often ; half an hour before you take it up, 
remove paste and paper, baste it with butter, and dredge 
with flour to make it brown. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WJU: JtJBMOVJB IT 



Liver 
Troubles 



60 

. . . CURED BY USING . . , 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



y 



FOn SALE EVERTWITERXl 



For Sauce. — Take a pound and a half of scraps of 
venison, with three pints of water, a few cloves, a (ew, 
blades of mace, one-half a nutmeg;, and salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste ; boil it down to a pint, skim off the fat 
and strain ; add half a pint of currant jelly, one pint of 
claret and one-quarter pound of butter, divided into 
bits and rolled in flour. 

TONGUES. 

To Boil a Tongue. 

Trim and wash the tongue, put it into col(] water at 
such a distance from the fire that it may be an hour in 
heating ; then let it simmer from three to four hours, 
according to size, take it out of the hot water, and 
plunge it into cold water, when the skin can be easily 
drawn off. If wanted to be served hot, it should be 
glazed over with a jelly of cow's heel or calfs foot, laid 
on with a paste-brush, two or three times, till it looks 
transparent, and then send in with mashed turnips 
and sliced carrots. 

If a tongue be boiled to S2nd to the table cold, it is 
now usually rolled up as soon as boiled and skinned; 
the thick put in the middle after it has been nicely trim- 
med. It must then be bound with tape, put into a tin 
mould, with a weight upon it for twenty-four hours; 
when turned out, remove the tape and put a silver skewer 
through, and cut it like a fillet of veal. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE YOU It CORNS 



'^ 



i 61 



I 






-^ 






"i 



GIVE THE 
CHIUOREN 



JOHNSTON'S FLUID BEEF 

(EADING maketh a full boy, 
Conference a ready boy, 
Writing an exact boy, 
And JOHNSTON'S FLUID BEEF a strong boy. 



R^ 



Sauces for Meat and Fish 



I ENGLISH SAUCE. 

f 

;h One pound brown sugar, half-pound salt, half-pound 

'% garlic, half-pound onions, quarter-pound pepper, quarter- 

^§ pound ground ginger, half-pound mustard seed, one 

pound raisins, two pounds apples, half-ounce cayenne, 

two quarts vinegar. The raisins to be chopped, apples 

to be peeled and cut, and boiled in one pint of the 

vinegar; garlic and onions must be chopped fine and 

well bruised, the sugar made into syrup with one pint of 

J the vinegar. When the apples are cool, mix the 

whole, including the remainder of the vinegar ; blend 
sft well together, and jar. 



TOMATO MUSTARD. 



^ One peck of ripe tomatoes ; boil with two onions, six 

m red peppers, four cloves of garlic, for one hour ; then 

;f add a half-pint or half-pound- salt, three tablespoon- 

I fuls bl^.ck pepper, h\ilf-ounce ginger, half-ounce allspice, 

§ half-ounce mace, half-ounce cloves; then boil again for 

1 one hour longer, and when cold add a pint of vinegar 

m and a quarter pound of mustard ; and if you like it very 

I hot, a tablespoonful of cayenne. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wiltj remove it 



fi2 



SEWING MACHINE 



MA^RCHEVITE 

' I V-?,.C55^ LUBRICANT 



GOVERNOR'S SAUCE. 

Slice a peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle salt over 
them, say about a cupful, and let them stand one night ; 
in the morning pour off the liquor, and put them in a 
kettle with vinegar enough to cover them, add six green 
or red peppers (moderate size), four large onions chopped 
fine, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of scraped horse- 
radish, a tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, a tea- 
spoonful of cayenne, one of white pepper ; let it sim- 
mer till soft, put into jars, and always keep it air-tight- 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Thirty-six ripe tomatoes, six green peppers, two 
onions chopped fine, two cups of sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls.of salt, two teaspoonfuls of ground cloves, two tea- 
spoonfuls of mustard, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
two cups of vinegar, and boil half a day. 

TOMATO CHILI SAUCE. 

Nine ripe tomatoes, peeled and cut small, red peppers 
and one onion chopped fine, one teacupful vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls brown sugar, one tablespoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful ginger, one of cloves, one of allspice, vine- 
gar in last ; stew one hour. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE YOUR CORNS 



63 



Simpson, Hall, Miller & Go. 



.-Tf 



. . . MANUFACTURERS OF 



* 
^ 



^ STERLING SILVER I 

i ^ 

I AND I 



■J 

it f 



* 



a i 



Fine Electro Plate 



^ 



I 



. . . SOLE MANUFACTURERS AND . . . 
PROPRIETORS OF THE CELEBRATED 



Wn. ROGERS^ 


^ Knives . . . 


* Forks . . . . 


/sp..^ and Spoons 



^ ^ '^ 

REPLATING OF ALL. KINDS AT LOWEST PRICES 



1794 Notre Dame Street 

MONTREAL 




Liver 
Troubles 



n4 

. . . CURED BY USINQ . . 

McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



FOn SALE KVKRYwnERK 



WINTKR SAUCE 

One peck green tomatoes cliopped fine, two dozen 
large onions peeled and chopped, one dozen green or 
red peppers chopped fine; salt, pepper, and spice to 
suit taste. 

goosebi-:rry catsup. 

Five pints vinegar, four pounds green gooseberries, 
one-half pound brown sugar, one-half pound raisins, 
one-quarter pound currants, one-quarter pound common 
salt, two ounces mustard, two ounces onions, one-half 
ounce chilies, one-half ounce allspice, one-half ounce 
ground ginger, one-half ounce ground mace, one-half 
ounce turmeric, one nutmeg. Boil the vinegar, currants, 
raisins, onions, gooseberries and chilies till quite soft, 
then pour through a fine sieve On the remaining in- 
gredients. 



b 



DRAWN BUTTER. 

Drawn butter forms the basis of most sauces. From 
this a great variety may be made, by adding to this dif- 
ferent flavors — anchovies, okra, onions, celery, parsley, 
mint, and relishes— using those flavors which are 
suitable for the meat, game, or fish with which the 
sauces are to be served. A good standard receipt for 
drawn butter is as follows : 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILI, MSMOrjB IT 



m 

leadacde 



65 
USi 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



Sf% CentM Per Hnx 



Rub one tablcspooiiful ol flour with one-quarter of a 
pound of butter ; when well mixed put in a saucepan 
with a tablespoonful of milk or water ; set in a dish of 
boiling water, shakinpj it well until the butter melts and 
is nearly boiling. It should not be set directly on the 
stove or over the coals, as the heat will make the butter 
oily and spoil it. 

MADE MUSTARD. 

Pour a very Httle boiling water over three tablespoon- 
fuls of mustard ;add onesaltspoonful ofsalt,a tablespoon- 
ful of olive oil, stirred slowly in, and one teaspoonful of 
sugar ; add the yolk of an eGjg beaten well, and pour in 
vinegar to taste. It is best eaten next day. 

CELERY VINEGAR. 

Soak one ounce of celery seed in half a pint of vine- 
gar ; bottle it, and use to flavor soups and gravies. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Six pounds currants or gooseberries, five pounds 
sugar, half a pint of vinegar ; spices, cloves, and cin- 
namon. Boil till thick. 



ROUGH DRY WASHINC-Something New 

SEND FOH PAKTICULAHS 

(lAtmdry Dept.) ThO MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DORCHESTER STREET. Telephone 1807 

5 



fifi 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . , 

McGALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



Fon SAhK F.VKRYWHKRE 



CURRA.NT SAUCK FOR VENISON. 

Half an hour before the venison is done, pick over an 
ounce of dried currants, wash them well, put them over 
the fire in half a pint of hot water, and boil them for 
fifteen minutes ; then add to them two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumb-;, one ol butter, a palatable 
seasoning of salt and pepper, and six \vhole cloves, and 
boil the sauce gtntly ; just before serving it add a glass 
of port wine. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Put a lialf-pint of milk or cream in a double boiler. 
Rub together a tablcspoonful of butter and an even 
tablespoonful of flour, then stir them into the boiling 
milk, add one ounce of young horse-radish, finely grated, 
a half-teaspoonful of salt, and a half-teaspoonful of sugar. 

This is exceedingly nice to serve with boiled, fresh or 

salt fish. 

SAUCE PIQUANT. 

Take one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and rub 
it to a paste, then add gradually, rubbing all the while, 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs ; add a quarter of a 
teaspoon ful of dry mustard, and a teaspoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce, mix until smooth, and add a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and a 
tcaspoonful gnited onion ; then add gradually a half- 
pint of boiluig stock, season u ith salt and pepper, and 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

A\n jt-KnovjE YOVH corns 



m 



/MONTSERRAT ""/-S"" 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very beet of Temperate Driuks. To be had from 
all Qroccrs and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME. DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



ROM/.N SAUCE. 

.Put one teacup of water and one of milk on the fire to 
scald; stir in a tabiespoonful of flour and three well- 
beaten eggs. Season with pepper and salt, two ounces 
of butter and a tabiespoonful of vinegar. Boil four ct^gs, 
slice and lay over the dish. Serve with boiled tongue, 
beef, venison or fish. 

MAITRK D'HOTE SAUCE. 

Add to one teacupful of fresh made drawn butter, the 
juice of one small lemon, chopped parsley, minced 
onions and thyme, cayenne pepper and salt. Heat 
while simmering. Serve with meat or fish. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One pint oysters, half a lemon, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, one tabiespoonful flour, one teacupful milk or 
cream, cayenne and nutmeg to taste. 

Stew the oysters in their own liquor five minutes, and 
add the milk. When tiiis boils, strain the liquor and 
return to the saucepan. Thicken with the flour when 
you have wet it with cold water, stir it well in, put in 
the butter, next the cayenne (if you like it) ; boil one 
minute, squeeze in the lemon juice, shake it around well,, 
and pour out. 

Or, drain the oysters dry without cooking at all ; 
make the sauce with the liquor and other ingredients 

McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



triJUL ItMMOVM IT 



68 






USE- 



McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



2S Cer'i;s Per- Box 



just named. Chop the raw oysters, and stir in when 
you do the butter, boil five minutes, and pour into the 
tureen. Some put in the oysters whole, considering 
that the sauce is handsomer than when they are chopped. 
Oyster sauco is used for boiled halibut, cod, and 
other fish, for boiled turke)^ chickens, and white meats 
generally. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Three tablespoonfuls vinegar, twc tablespoonfuls 
mint, one tablespoonful sugar, one tablespoonful salt. 

Mix ten minutes before using. To be served with 
spring lamb. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AJfD REMOVE TOUR CORXS 



6U 



Oarlotte 



Poultry and Game 



When poultry is brought into the kitchen for use, it 
should be kept as cool as possible. The best position in 
which to place it is with the breast downwards on a shelf 
or marble slab. The crop should be taken out. Choose 
fowls with a thin, transparent skin, white and delicate. 
Time required to boil poultry : a chicken will take about 
twenty minutes ; a fowl about forty minutes ; a small 
turkey an hour and a half: a large turkey two hours or 
more. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Take a young fowl, and fill the inside with oysters; 
place in a jar and plunge into a kettle of water, boil for 
one and one-half hours, there v.'ill be a quantity of 
gravy in the jar from ihe juice of the fowl and the 
oysters, make this into white sauce with the addition of 
egg, cream, or a little flour and butter ; add oysters, or 
serve up plain with the fowl. This is very nice with 
the addition of a liiilc pasley to the sauce. 

DRESSING FOR CHICKENS ORTURKEV. 

MR::. F. u. 
Chop bread crumbs quite fine, season well with pepper 



yoa HA\fE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMOVE IT 



Liver 
Troublos 



. , . CURED BY USING , . 

McCALE*S 

Butternut Pills 



von SAT.E EVBRYWHKRFj 



salt, and plenty cf butter, moisten with a very little 
water, and add a few oysters with a little of the liquor, 
if you please. The best authorities say the dressing is 
the finest when it crumbles as the fowl is cut. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEY, 
c. kenNticot. 

One pint of soaked bread, two tablespronfuls of sas^c, 
two tablespoonfuls of summer savory, two tcaspoonfuls 
of salt, two teaspoonfuls pepper, butter size of an tgg. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

MARION HARLAND. 

Minced chicken, about one-quarter as much fine 
bread crumbs as you have of meat, one egg beaten light 
to each cup of meat, gravy enough to moisten the 
crumbs and chicken, or, if you have no gravy, a little 
drawn butter, pepper and salt and chopped parsley to 
taste, yolks of two hard boiled eggs rubbed fine with 
the bick of a silver spoon, nddcd to the meat ; mix up 
into a paste with as little handling as maybe, nor must 
the paste be too wet to mould readily ; make with floured 
hands into rolls or ov.ite balls, roll in flour until well 
coated, and fry a few at a time, lest crowding should 
injure the shape, in nice dripping, or a mixture half 
lard and half butter. As you take them out lay in a 
hot colander, that every drop of fat may be drained off. 
Serve in a heated dish with cresses or parsley. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE YOUR CORNS 



71 
ir YOU KNOW ANYONE T^XZC! ^DU' TDC! T A 

TROUBLED WITH . . . U X Ox^lLX^OXx^ 
. . . ADVISE THEM TO TAKE . . . 

Johnston's Fluid Qeef 



CHICKEN CRUOUETTES. 

MRS. 1. A, ELLIS. 
Four and one-half pounds chicken boiled and chopped 
very fine, moisten to. a thick pulp with the liquor in 
which it has been boiled. Mix with this a pint and a 
half of mashed potatoes beaten to a cream, three eggs, 
one tcaspoonful of mustard, sweet marjoram, salt and 
pepper to taste, a little celery chopped very fine ; 
soften with milk till very soft, and add a quarter of a 
pound of butter. Mould into forms, dip in egi^ and 
cracker dust, and fry in boiling lard. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

MRS. BAUSHER. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, lay it in salt and water, which 
change several times, roll each piece in flour, fry in very 
hot lard or butter, season .v^ith salt and pepper, fry 
parsley with them also. Make a gravy of cream 
seasoned with salt, pepper and a little mace, thickened 
with a little flour in the pan in which the chickens we. e 
fried, pouring off the lard. 

frii-:d chicken. 

One young chicken, weighing about four pounds, 
three gills cream or milk, half pint Cottolene, one table- 
spoonful salt, one-third teaspoonful pepper, three table- 
spoonfuls flour, one teaspoonful minced parsley. 

Cut the chicken into handsome joints, and, after wiping 

McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



wiltj remove it 



72 



jeanacde 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2S Cents Per Box 



it, season with half the salt and pepper and roll in two 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Now put the Cottolene and 
half a teaspoonfui of salt in a frying-pan and place it on 
the fire. When it is smoking hot, put in the chicken, 
but do not crowd it. Brown on one side; then turn it, 
and brown the oth* r side. Take up the chicken and 
place in a warm co\ cred dish. Pour out of the frying- 
pan all the fat except about three tablespoonful.s. Stir 
one tablespoonful of flour into this fat, and when the 
mixture is smooth, s^radually add the milk, stirring all 
the time. Season w ith the remainder of the salt and 
pepper. Add the parsley ; then lay the browned chicken 
in the pan, and cook gently for five minutes. Serve on 
a hot dish with a garnish of parsley. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

One fowl weighing about four and one-half pounds, 
onequart boiling water, two tablespoonfuls butter, three 
tablespoonfuls flour, one lieaping teaspoonfui salt, one- 
quarter teaspoonfui pepper. Half the materials called 
for in the rule for Pie Crust. 

Cut the fowl into handsome joints, and clean the liver, 
heart and gizzar':!. Wash the bird, an:! put it in a stew- 
pan with the gizzard, liver and heart. Pour the boiling 
water on this meat and place on the fire. When the 
contents of the stew-pan begin to boil, skim carefully. 
Now rnix the flour with a sfill of cold water and stir 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND KEjaOVB YOUR ConjfS 



r8 



LiVBi 

Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOJt SAL, IS KVHRrWHEnB 



into the stew-pan containing the chicken. Season with 
salt and pepper. Cover the stew-pan and set it back 
where the contents will only bubble at one side for two 
hours. If the chicken be tcnderatthe end of that time, 
take it from the tire and add the butter. Invert a cup 
in the center of a pie-dish that will hold about three pints. 
Put the chicken and gravy in this dish and set away to 
get perfectly cold. When the chicken is cold, roll the 
paste into a piece the shape of the top of the dish, but 
a little larger. Cut a small hole in the center of the 
paste, that the steam may escape. Cover the chicken 
with the paste, folding it in at the sides, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven for one hour. 

The flavor of this pie may be varied by adding, when 
the fowl is put on to boil, one bay leaf, half a teaspoonful 
of minced parsley and a teaspoonful of minced onion. 
Many people like hard boiled eggs, cut in slices, and 
mixed with the chicken pie. A pint of solid oysters 
may be added to the cooked chicken before the crust is 
put on. In case the oysters be used, an additional table- 
spoonful of flour should be allowed. 

CHICKEN PIE 'VITH OYSTERS. 
Boil a good-sized chicken until tender, drain off the 
liquor from a quart of oysters. Line the sides and bot- 
tom of a large, round pan with crust, put in a layer of 
oysters and a layer of chicken until the pan is full. Sea- 



MANCLED WORK BY THE POUND 

RF.XI) FOR PAHTlcrLAllP 

(Laundry Dept.> The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 UORCHKSTKK STREKT. Telephone 1807 



74 



M 

jeaiiacQe 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



.?a» CGtits Per Bnx 



son with pepper, salt, bits of Cottolcne and the oyster 
liquor, add some of the chicken Hquor. Cover with crust, 
and bake. Serve with sliced letnon. 

ROAST DUCK WITH APPLES. 

Pluck and singe a duck, draw it without breaking tlie 
intestines, wipe it with a wet towel and lay it in a 
baking-pan ; wipe a dozen small sour apples with a wet 
cloth, cut out the cores without breaking the apples, and 
arrange them around the duck; put the pan into a hot 
oven and quickly brown the duck, then moderate the 
heat of the oven, and continue .:he cooking for about 
twenty minutes, or until the apples are tender but not 
broken ; baste both duck and apples every five minutes 
until they are done, and then serve them on the same 
dish. 

potato stuffing for poultry and 

gamp:. 

Potato stuffing may be used for any fowl, though it 
is better for ducks and geese. Take about two cups of 
mashed potatoes, a teaspoonful of on!on juice or two 
spoonfuls of fine chopped onion, half a cupful of milk or 
cream, tablespoonful of butter, black pepper, salt, table- 
spoonful of chopped parky ; many like yolk of egg, about 
two to the above quantity ; mix and beat well. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT, REMOrlS IT 



75 



Only 60c. T TTDV^^ PARISIAN 

a Bottle . LUDI 3 HAIR RENEWER 



FORCE-MEAT FOR ROAST DUCK. 

Soak a pint of stale bread crumbs in cold water, and 
squeeze them quite dry by wringing;' them in a clean 
towel ; chop fineatablespoonful each of parsley and onion, 
and a level tcaspoonful each of tiiyme, marjoram and 
saji^e ; peel, slice, boil and mash throufdi a colander a 
pint of potatoes ; when all these ingredients are ready 
])ut them over the fire in a frying-pan containing two 
tablespoonfulsof h'lt Cottolene : season them with a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of salt and asaltspoonful of pepfjcr, stir > 
them until they are scalding hot, then remove the pan 
from the fire, quickly stir in the yolks of two raw eggs, 
and use the force-meat for stuffing the duck. 

Notice that, in frying with Cottolene, this fat will 
brown before it begins to smoke; the test of heat is to 
drop into the hot fat a crumb of b ead, and fry as soon 
as the breati browns. 

GOOSE STUFFED WITH SAUERKRAUT." • 

Draw and singe the goose. Wipe it inside and out 
v/ith a damp towel, and fill it with sauerkraut. Sew it ■ 
up, tie into shape, and place in a large kett'e, cover it 
with about two quarts of sam rkr.iu". Cover the whole 
Avith boiling water and simmer gently for three hours. 
At the end of this time take out the goose, pace it in a 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALEI'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND RKMOVE TOVIt VOItNS 



Liver 
Troubles 



76 



. . . CURED BY USINQ . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOn SAT.E Krr.RYWITERK 



baking-pan, baste it with melted butter, dredge the breast 
thickly with flour, put it in a quick' oven until a nice 
brown (about an hour). Serve in a bed of the boiled 
sauerkraut. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST POULTRY AND GAME. 

Put the giblets, or neck, liver, gizzard and heart, on 
to boil in one cjuart of water, and boil till tender, and 
the water reduced to one pint. Mash the liver, and, if 
desired, chop the gizzard, heart, and meat from the neck. 
Pour off the clear fat from the dripping-pan, and put the 
settlings into a saucepan; rinse out the pan with the 
water in which the giblets were boiled, and pour this 
water into the saucepan and put on to boil. Put three 
or four tablcspoonfuls of the lat into a small frying-pan 
add enough dry flour to absorb all the fat, and when 
brown add the giblet liquor gradually, and stir till it 
thickens. Season with salt and pepper. If not smooth, 
strain it ; pour half of it into the gravy-boat, and add 
the chopped giblets to the remaining half, and serve 
separately, as all may not care for the giblet gravy. 

WILD DUCKS ROASTED. 

Prepare for roasting the same as any fowl. Parboil 
for fifteen minutes wiih an onion in the water, and the 
strong fishy flavor that is sometimes so disagreeable in 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wilIj rkmove it 



77 



Archambault's 



I STUDIO I 



. . . IS NOtfit ONLY AT . . , 



3204 Notre Dame 5t. 



ALL WORK DONE UP IN THE LATEST STYLES 
AND WARBAWTED TO GIVE SATISFACTION . , 



PRICES TO SUIT ALL. 



N.B.— Entrance by the store only. 



78 



Veanaclie 



USE' 



McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



2f% CentM l*cr linx 



wild ducks will have disappeared. A cairot will answer 
the same purpose. Stuff with bread crumbs, a minced 
onion, season with pepper, .salt, and sage, and roast until 
tender. Use butter plentifully in basting. A half hour 
will suffice for young ducks. 

rRAIRIKCHICKENS-STKAMEDAND BAKED. 

Stuff them, after cleaning, with a dressing of bread 
crumbs and seasoning of pepper and salt, and mixed 
with melted butter. Sage, onion or summer savory 
may be added, if liked. Secure the fowl firmly with a 
needle and twine. Steam in a steamer until tender. 
Then remove to a dripping pan, dredge with flour, pep- 
per and salt, and brown delicately in the oven. Baste 
with melted butter. Garnish with parsley and lumps 
of currant jelly. 

VENISON. 

Venison is one of the most easily digested meats. It 
may be cooked after the same rules as mutton or beef 
It should be cooked rare, and served very hot with cur- 
rant jelly. The saddle, or loin, is the choicest cut for 
roasting or lor steaks. Steaks are also cut from the leg. 

Venison steaks should be broiled the same as beef- 
steaks, and served with maitrc d'hote butter, made with 
currant jelly instead of lemon juice. The cheaper, 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AXD remove;, YOUU C'OllXS 



79 



HAiRCHEVITE 



liiLUBRICANT 



tougher parts of venison may 'jc stewed or braised. 
Venison should be wiped carefully before C( oking, as 
the hairs are often found clinging to the mi at. 

DRESSING FOR BROILED GAME. 

Mix an ounce of butter with about a teaspoonful of 
unmade mustard, salt, a dust of cayenne and a few drops 
of vinegar, or, if preferred, lemon juice. Score the flesh 
pretty deeply, coat it thickly with the above mixture 
and broil over a clear fire. 

PIGEON PIE. 

MRS. I,. 

Make a fine puff paste ; lay a border of it around a 
large dish, and cover the bottom with a veal cutlet, or 
a very tender steak free from fat and bone ; season with 
salt, cayenne pepper, and mace. Prepare as many 
pigeons as can be put in one layer of the dish ; put in 
each pigeon a small lump «f butter, and season with pep- 
per and salt; lay them in the dish breast downwards, 
and cut in slices a half dozen ot hard boiled eggs, and 
lay in with the birds ; put in more butter, some veal 
broth, and cover the whole with crust, ]>ake slowly for 
an hour and a half. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



nu.h JtEMOVJi IT 



Liver 
Troubles 



80 

. . . CURED BY USINQ . . , 

McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



ron SALE Evr.PVWUKRE 



BROILED PIGl'lONS OR SQUABS. 

MARION HAKLAND. 

Young pigeons or " squabs *' are rightly esteemed a 
great delicacy. They are cleaned, washed, and dried 
carefully with a clean cloth, then split down the back, 
and broiled like chickens. Season with pepper and 
salt, and butter liberally in dishing th'^m. They are in 
great request in a convalescent's room, being peculiarly 
savory and nourishing. 

CHICKEN PATES. 

Mince chicken that has been previously roasted or 
boiled, and season well ; stir into this a sauce made of 
half a pint of milk, into which, while boiling, a teaspoon- 
ful of corn starch has been added to thicken ; season 
with butter, about a teaspoonful, then salt and pepper 
to taste. Have ready small pate pans lined with a good 
puff paste. Bake the crust in a brisk oven ; then fill the 
pans and set in the oven a few minutes to brown very 
slightly. 

DUCKS. 

MISS S. P. 

When roasted, use dressing as for turkey, with the 
addition of a few slices of onion. Many cooks lay over 
the game slices of onions, which take away the fishy 



FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

8ATISFA.CTOBY XNO KCONOMICA.!. 

(Laundry Dept.) Tho MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

580 DORCHESTER STREET. Telephone 1807 



81 

* 

No Kitchen is thoroughly Equipped 

. . . WITHOUT A SUPPLY OF . . . 

Johnston's Fhiid Beef 



flavor, removing the onion before serving. Make a 
sauce with the drippings in the pan in which the game 
is roasted, and to which are put the chopped giblets, 
which are previously well cooked j thicken the gravy 
with brown flour, moistened with water. Serve with cur- 
rant jelly. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Stufl* and roast in the same manner as ducks. Many 
cooks cover poultry with a paste of flour and water while 
baking, emoving it before it is served. 

TO STEW BIRDS. 

MRS. JAS. BEATY. 

Wash and stuff them with bread crumbs, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, butter or chopped salt pork, and fasten 
them tight. Line a stew pan with slices of bacon, add 
a quart of water and a bit of butter the size of a goose 
egg, or else four slices of salt pork. Add if you like 
sliced onions, and sweet herbs and mace. Stew till ten- 
der, then take them up and strain the gravy over them. 
Add boiling water if the liquor is too much reduced. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

After drawing the turkey, rinse out with several 
waters, and in next to the last mix a teaspoonful of soda 



FAMILY WASHING OUR SPECIALTY 

(Laundry Dept ) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 DORCHKSTKR STBKET. Telephone 1807 

6 



SicK 
Beadaclie 



82 
USE- 



McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



2S Cents Per 13nx 



The inside of a fowl, especially if purchased in the mar- 
ket, is sometimes very sour, and Imparts an unpleasant 
taste to the stuffing, if not to tie inner part of the legs 
and side bones. The soda will act as a corrective, and is, 
moreover, very cleansing. Fill the body with this water, 
shaxeweli, empty it out, and rinse withh-ir water. Then 
prepare a dressing of bread-crumbs, mix with butter, pep- 
per, salt, thyme or sweet marjoram. You may, if you 
like, add the beaten yolks of two eggs. A little chopped 
sausage is esteemed an improvement when well incor- 
porated with the other ingredients. Or, mince a dozen 
oysters and stir into the dressing. The effect upon the 
turkey meat, particularly that of the breast, is very 
pleasant, . - 

Stuff th.^ craw with this, and tic a string tightly about 
the neck, to prevent the escape of the stuffing. Then 
fill the body of the turkey, and sew it up with strong 
thread. This and the ne..'.:-string are to be removed 
when the fowl is dished. In roasting, if your fire is brisk, 
allow about ten minutes to the pound ; but it will depend 
very much upon the turkey's age whether this rule holds 
good. Dredge it with flour before roasting, and baste 
often — at first with butter and water, afterward with 
the gravy in the dripping-pan. If you lay the turkey in 
the pan, p-'t in with it a tea-cupful of hot water. Many 
roast always upon a grating placed on the top of the 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGA'.E'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT. ItEMOyj; IX 



83 



I 



LUBY'S ^^^' HAIR 



pan. In that case the boiling water steams the under 
part of the fowl, and prever.ts the skin from drying too 
fast, or cracking. Roast to a fine brown, and if it threat- 
ens to darken too rapidly, lay a sheet of white paper 
over it until the lower part is also done. 

Stew the chopped giblets in just enough water to 
cover then., and when the turkey is lifted from the pan, 
add these, with the water in which they were boiled, to 
the drippings ; thicken with a spoonful of browned 
flour wet with cold water to prevent lumping ; boil up 
once, and pour into the gravy-boat. If the turkey is fat, 
skim the drippings well before putting in the giblets. 
Serve with cranberry sauce. Some lay fried oysters in 
the dish around the turkey. 

BOILED OR STEAMED TURKEY OR FOWL. 

Clean, and rub well with salt, pepper and lemon juice, 
and stuff with oyster or bread stuffing. It is better 
without the stuffing, as the oysters are usually overdone, 
and the same flavor may be obtained from an oyster 
sauce served with the turkey. Truss the legs and wings 
close to the body, pin the fowl in a cloth to keep it 
whiter and preserve the shape. Put into boiling salted 
water. Allow twenty minutes to the pound. Cook 
slowly till tender, but not long enough for it to fall 
apart. Turkeys are much nicer steamed than boiled. 
Serve with oyster, celer'-, lemon, or caper sauce. Garnish 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALL'S 

CORN SALVE 

^i.\n jtKvovj^: yoxTit cojtjvs 



leanacle 



84 
USE 



McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



23 Cents I'cr litfx 



with a border of boiled rice or macaroni, and pour part 
of the sauce over the fowl. 

Fowls are sometimes stuffed with boiled celery, cut 
into pieces an inch long, or with macamni which has 
been boiled and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

BvONED TURKEY. 

When boned, fill »with the following : one pair of 
chickens, weighing about eight pounds, one cold boiled 
tongue, one pint mushrooms or truffles, one pound sau- 
sage-meat, two tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. 

Chop the uncooked meat of the chickens very fine. 
Cut the tongue into very thin slices. Cut the mush- 
rooms also into slices, spread the turkey out on the 
table, with the inside up and the rump toward you, dust 
it well with salt and pepper. Now put on a layer of 
sausage-meat, then a layer of mushrooms, then a 
layer of chopped chicken, then a layer of tongue, then 
a sprinkling jf parsley, and so on till you have used 
nearly all the materials gi'^en. Mix the remaining 
materials, which should be just enough to fill the wings 
and legs. 

Bring the two sides of the skin together, giving the 
turkey a round form, sew it up, turn it over, tuck back 
the wings and fasten them with a small skewer, bring 
the legs down by the side of the turkey and fasten them 
in the same way. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMOVE IT 



85 



/"MONTSERRAT""/.n^"" 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 

Now finish in precisely the same manner as for boned 
chicken. In selecting poultry to bone, choose those at 
least a year and a half old, with a smooth, perfect 
skin, and dry picked. 

CHICKEN A LA CREME. 

After cleaning ca''efully and washing in cold water, 
joint it and cut up nicely, then stew till well done. 
Then make a thickening of cream if you can get it, or 
rich milk and sifted flour, seasoned with butter, pepper 
and salt. Have ready baked two short cakes, made as 
for piecrusts, but rolled thin and cut in squares. Lay 
the crusts on a dish and pour the chicken over them 
while hot — or, if preferred, use small soda biscuits instead 
of short cake. Either way it will be found very nice. 

WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES. 

Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Some wood- 
cocks or snipes, butter, bread torsted, two slices of bacon. 

After the birds arc picked and trussed, put a thin 
layer of bacon over them, and tie it on, run a bird-spit 
through them, and tie it on to a common one. Toast 
and butter a slice of bread, and put it under them for the 
trail to drop on. Baste them continually with butter, 
and roast them, if large, for twenty-five minutes ; if 
small, five minutes less. Froth them up, take up the 
toast, cut it in quarters, i)ut in the dish, and pour some 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND ItEMOVE TOUR COitNS 



86 



SEWING MACHINE 



TORCHEVITE 



\y-^,^=^ 



^.LUBRICANT 



gravy and butter over it. Take up the woodcocks and 
put them on it, with the bills outwards. Serve with 
plain butter sauce in a tureen. 

Snipes are dressed the same as woodcocks, only roast 
the large ones twenty minutes, small ones a quarter of 
an hour. 

TO ROAST WILD DUCKS. 

Time, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. Wild 
ducks, butter, flour, cayenne pepper, one lemon, one 
glass of port wine. 

When the ducks are trussed, spit them, and put them 
down to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit in 
rapid motion. Baste them plentifully with butter, 
dredge them lightly with flour, and send them up 
nicely frothed and browned, with a good gravy in the 
dish. Before carving it, the breast should have a "cw 
incisions made across it with a knife, and a piece of 
fresh butter put on it, then cut a lemon across, on one- 
half put a little salt, on the other a very small quantity 
of cayenne pepper, put the lemon together and squeeze 
the juice over the ducks, then add a glass of warmed 
port wine, and your ducks will be ready to carve. 



YOU HAVE 

^ ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT. RVMOVK IT 



87 



LUBY'S HAIR 



aROW£E and 
RESTORER . . 



Veg^etables 



Boil fresh, young vegetables in hard water ; a little 
salt will harden the water at once. 

Boil dried vegetables in soft water ; a little baking 
soda will soften water, and is useful in freshening and 
making tender green vegetables that are a little old or 
not wholly fresh. A little sugar is an improvement to 
beets, turnips and squash. 

Cabbage, turnips, carrots, parsnips and beets are good 
boiled with fresh meats. When vegetables are served 
with salt meats, they are good boiled in the liquor in 
which the meat has been cooked ; take out the meat 
when done ; then cook the vegetables. 

Underdone vegetables are unpardonable. 

Boil onions, medium size, one hour; green corn, 
twenty to twenty-five minutes ; peas and asparagus, 
twenty to twenty-five minutes ; potatoes, half an hour, 
if very small, less time ; cabbage and cauliflower, twenty- 
five minutes to half an hour; carrots and turnips, forty- 
five minutes when young, one hour in winter; Lima 
beans, if young, half an hour, old, forty-five minutes ; 
beets, one hour in summer, one hour and a half or even 
two hours, if large, in winter ; string beans, if slit or 
sliced and thin, half an hour ; if only snapped, fortj^- 
five minutes. Regulate this time always by the time 
the meat will be done. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE- 

A\D REMOVE TOUR CORNS 



Liver 
Troubles 



88 

. . . CURED BY USINQ ... 

McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALE KVERTWniERB 



i ■■■• 



STEWED CARROTS. 

Cut the carrots either into dice or long, narrow strips. 
Boil forty minutes in water, adding salt just before they 
are done. When done, drain, and pour over them cream 
sauce. 

CAULIP^LOWERAU GRATIN. 

Trim off the outside leaves of a nice fresh cauliflower, 
tie it up in a piece of cheese cloth, and put it into well- 
salted boiling water ; boil for twenty or thirty minutes. 
Be careful to take it out as soon as tender, or it will fall 
into pieces. Drain and separate the head into the little 
flowerets. Put these in a baking-dish, pour over cream 
sauce, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, and brown in 
a quick oven. 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil in salted water, just enough to cook it, then put 
it in a cup of milk or cream, and a very little thickening, 
and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

CREAMED ONIONS. 

After boiling half a dozen onions in th'^ee quarts of 
water for one hour, pour off the liquor, and cut the 
onions into small pieces. Season with salt and pepper, 
and pour a pint of cream sauce over them. Serve very 
hot. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



W1Z.I. RUMorx: xt 



89 

co'v^BiE^nsrToisr'S 

FRAGRANT CARBOLIC 

■I"ootl:x DE^o^wdox* 

Removes Tartar, Whitens and PreKerves the Teetli. 
Pmice, 2S Cents 

OOVER.JSTTOIsr'S 

FRAGRANT CARBOLIC 



Cleanses and PrestM-ves tlie 'J'eetli, Hardens the Uunis, corrects any 
disHgreeiiliJe odor arising from decayed teetli, the use of tobacco, 
etc. ; highly reeoniniended by all the leading Dentists of the City. 

Prices, 25c., SOc. and S1-00 

CO'VEK/ITTOIT'S 

T^ 1 1=» i^ JL. e; oi 

nilJ> KK FOUVI) Si I'KKIOK V.) Ml OTIIKK ritKriiiiTiovs For. 
CRACICESD ore soke: N^IPPILiESS 

To IlARDlCN PHK Nu'l'l.KS (oinnicnce iiKiiig three months lieforc eoiitincnient. 

Price, 25 Cents. 

WATSON, FOSTER &r CO. 

86, 88, 90, 92 and 94 Grey Nun St. 

MONTREAL 



^ manufacturers of 

fy!> 



I Wall f Papers | 






^ IN ALL GRADES ^ 
SAMPLES MAILED TO DEALERS ON APl'LWATlOy 



World's Fair— The only Canadian Factory receiving an award. 



M 

geanacte 



90 
USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2a CeTitf\ l^er Box 



To make the same, — Fir.it put a pint of milk into a 
saucepan to boil. Rub to a cream two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and one generous tablespoonful of flour, and 
when the milk begins to boil, stir this cream into it. 
Continue this stirring until the sauce is smooth. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and boil up once. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut a slice from the blossom end, take out the seed 
and fill with a dressing made of bread, butter and sea- 
soning. Put a bit of butter on each and bak*^ half an 
hour. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Take large, round tomatoes, wash and wipe, put them 
on the gridiron over a good fire, when brown turn them. 
Place on a hot dish, with butter, pepper and salt. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 
Putin a baking-dish a layer of bread crumbs, with 
bits of butter and then a layer of tomatoes, sprinkled with 
pepper, salt and sugar. Continue until the dish is full. 
Spread bread crumbs and butter over the top. Bake 
one hour. 

SCALLOP OF TOMATOES AND 
GREEN CORN. 
Take green corn cut from the cob, season with some 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AJfD REMOTE TOUR COR\S 



91 

CHARRON'S PHARMACY 

. . . FOR . . . 

Physicians' Prescriptions 

1978 NOTRE DAME STREET 

Bell Tel. 2596 Merchants Tel, 500 

fat pork choiiped very fine, a minced shallot, pepper, 
salt and sugar. Let the top layer be tomatoes, butter, 
and season, and sift grated bread crumbs over it to 
brown the scallop. Bake covered half an hour, uncover 
and leave in the oven as much longer. This time is for 
a larffe dishful. 



'fc>^ 



STUFFED POTATOES. 

Take large, fair potatoes, bake until soft, 'and cut a 
round piece off the toj* of each. Scrape out the inside 
carefully, so as not to break the skin, and set aside the 
empty cases with the covers. Mash the inside very 
smoothly, working into it while hot some lard and 
cream — about half a teaspoonful of each for every potato. 
Season with salt and pepper, with a good pinch of 
grated cheese for each ; work it very soft with milk, and 
put into a saucepan to heat, stirring, to prevent burning. 
When scalding hot, stir in one well-beaten egg for six 
large potatoes. Boil up once, fill the skins v/ith the 
mixture, replacing the caps, return them to the oven for 
three minutes ; arrange upon a napkin in a deep dish, 
the caps uppermost, cover with a fold of the napkin, 
and eat hot. 

Or, you may omit the eggs and put in a double quan- 
tity of cheese. They are very good. 



. . SEND FOR OUR PRICES FOR . . 

FAMILY -WASHITSO 

(Lauiuiryi»,i>t. The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO, 

589 OOBCHESTER 8TKKET. Telephone 1807 






U2 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



FOB SALK KWRYWUKKK 



QUI RLED POTATOES. 
Peel, boil, season, and mash potatoes, then put throuf^h 
a colander into the dish in which you wish to serve. 
Brown in the oven. 

SARATOGA POTATOKS. 
Peel and slice thin into cold water. Drain well, and 
dry in a towel. P>y a few at a time in boiling Cotto- 
lene. Salt as you take them out, and lay them on 
coarse paper for a short time. They are very nice cold 
for lunch, or to take to picnics. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 
Boil, peel and slice six potatoes. Put a sliced onion 
into a hot buttered frying-pan. When a little browai, 
put in the potatoes. Season, and when a golden brown, 
sprinkle over them a tablespoonful of chopped [)arsley, 
A combination of onion and parsley always means 
Lyonnaise. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Potatoes that are to be fried raw should be pared and 
kept in cold water for several hours before being cooked. 
For French fried potatoes for six people, pare half a 
dozen potatoes of medium size. Cutthem in two, length- 
wise, and then separate each ]»art into three parts, 
cutting the length of the potato. Let them stand in ice 
water for an hour or more. Drain and wipe them dry. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL JiJSMOfJS IT 



98 
For ENRICHING SOUPS and GRAVIES 

Johnston's Fluid B^^f 



iw 



UNEQUALLED for FLAVOR and STRENOTH 

Put lard into the frying kettle to the depth of about four 
inches, and have it smoking hot. Put the potatoes into 
the frying basket and lower this slowly into the hot fat, 
raising it a little whenever there is danger of the fat's 
rising to the top of the pan. Nearly all the steam will 
pass away in about half a minute. Cook the potatoes 
for about ten minutes, being careful not to let them get 
too brown. Lift the basket from the hot fat and set on 
a plate. Dredge the potatoes with salt, then shake well 
and serve immediately. 

For thin fried potatoes, cut the vegetable in broad 
slices and no thicker than a wafer. Let these soak in 
cold .water for twelve hours or more. This will remove 
much of the starch and coloring matter. Put the pota- 
toes into fresh ice water an hour before they are to be 
fried. Drain and dry them quickly, as they must be 
crisp when put in the hot fat. Cook about half a pint 
at a time, keeping them in the fat for ten minutes, for 
they must be crisp throughout. Drain and dredge with 
salt. Thin fried potatoes may be served either hot or 
cold. This is one of the most satisfactory methods of 
cooking potatoes, as they can be served at any meal 
and are always acceptable at a picnic or cold luncheon. 

Sweet potatoes should be boiled for one hour, and then 
pared, cut, and cooked the same as French fried pota- 
toes. Serve at once. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE YOVIt COIINS 







SMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




/. 











1.0 



I.I 



^ 1^ 12.0 



1.25 



1= 
\A. ill 1.6 



€x 



7] 



<^ 



/i 



A 



-c'. 









^? ^% 




-y 




'/ 





Sciences 
Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 1 4580 

(716) 872-4503 





iV 



^^ 








^O 









c»\ 




leadaciie 



94 

USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2S Caiits Pot' Box 



FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

Pare and cut in slices half an inch thick. Sprinkle a 
little salt on each slice and press down for an hour, then 
rinse in clear water, and dry well in a towel. Di^ 
egg and rolled cracker, and fry a nice brown in hot larti. 
Season more, if required. 

STEWED CELERY. 

MRS. PARKER. 

Clean the heads, take ofif the coarse, outer leaves. Cut 
in small pieces, and stew. When tender, add cream, 
butter, and a little flour. Season to taste. 

OKRA. 

Boil young okra until tender. Drain, add cream and 
butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve hot. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shave cabbage fine, to one quart add the yolks of 
three eggs beaten, a tablespoonful of sugar, one of olive 
oil or melted butter, half a teacupful of thick cream, mus- 
tard, pepper and salt. Put ihe dressing over the fire, 
and stir, when thick pour over tne cabbage. Let cool, 
and slice hard-boiled eggs ove. the top. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL. REMOVE IT 



95 



y 



MONTSERRAT 



LIME FRUIT 
0' l¥IWIli I Ukllllf^ I . • JUICE . . 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



HOT SLAW. 

Chop fine and sprinkle over with flour. Put a small 
piece of butter in the oven to melt. Salt and pepper the 
cabbage, and put in the pan with the butter. Mix halt" a 
teacupful of cream, one egg, one tab'espoonful of mus- 
tard, one teaspoonful of sugar, and heat thoroughly. Serve 
warm. 

RADNOR POTATOES, 

Slice raw potatoes very thin, enough to fill a one- 
quart dish. Have about an ounce of lard, place a layer 
of potatoes in the dish, sprinkle pieces of lard and some 
pepper and salt over it. Repeat this until the dish is 
filled, and pour over it enough milk or cream to cover all. 
Cover and bake in a good oven about forty-five minutes ; 
uncover and brown. Serve in the dish in which it is 
cooked. If the oven is not in good order it will require 
almost an hour to be thoroughly done. You will find 
this a delicious dish. 

POTATO PfJFF. 
Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, and stir into 
it six teaspoonfuls of melted lard, beating to a white 
cream before adding anything else. Then put with this 
two eggs whipped very light and a teacupful of cream or 
milk, salting to taste. Beat all well, pour into a deep 
dish, and bake in a quick oven until it is nicely browned. 
If properly mixed it will come out of the oven light, 
puffy, and delectable. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'3 

CORN SALVE 

AND REM or E TOUR CORNS 



96 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . OURBD BY USING ... 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



rOH ,S ALE EVKR TWHE t K 



SMALL POTATOES. 

Small potatoes are very nice cooked in this way. 
Peel them and boil in salted water, do not let them boil 
until they are soft. I'eat one egg and have ready some 
fine cracker crumbs ; roll the potato in the egg, and then 
in the ciacker, and fry in lard until a light brown, turn- 
ing frequently that the color may be uniform. 

PUREEDEPOMMESDE TERRE. 

Boil potatoes, rub through a sieve ; to onv"^ and one-half 
pound of potatoes take four ounces butter, four yolks of 
eggs, some grated cheese, salt, pepper, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream. Putin dish ; sift cheese and butter over. Bake 
in hot oven about twelve minutes. 

CJNSOMM ^ WITH ASPARAGUS. 
Half a pint asparagus tops, one quart consommee, one 
quart boihng water, one teaspoonful salt. Use the deli- 
cate asparagus tops, and boil in the water with the salt 
for fifteen minutes. Drain, and put into a sauce-pan with 
the consommee. Boil gently five minutes, and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

One cauliflower, one ounce butter, one ounce flour, 
one gill of cold water, two tablespoonfuls cream, three 
ounces grated Parm san cheese, one grain cayenne, one 
saltspoonful white pepper, one tablespoonful salt Boil 

MANGLED WORK BY THE POUND 

SF.NI> KOIt PARTICf^IiARS 

aaundry Dept.^ The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

580 UORCHKSTEB STRBET. Telephone 1807 



t7 



M 




^l 



USE 



McC ALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



l?a> Cents Per B(k^ 



cauliflower fifteen minutes, place in a veiretable dish, 
make a sauce of flour, butter and milk, add to it two 
ounces of cheese, pour this over the cauliflower, sprinkle 
over remainder of cheese, and bake in a hot over, till 
nicely browned. Serve very hot. A firm head of cauli- 
flower must be selectea for th's preparation. So.ikcd half 
an hour in salted water. 

SWEET rOTATOE PIE. 

Take large sweet potatoes, and steam till they are soft, 
slice thin ; pa<^try is made in usual way, lay potatoes in 
a deep pie pan, sprinkle some flour over them, add two 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, one teaspoonful butter, half a tea- 
cupful water, sugar and nutmeg, or allspice to suit taste. 
Sweet potato pies should be eaten warm. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Take fineh mashed potatoes, and mix through them 
sufficient sa t, pepper and butter ' :> season wrJ, with 
sweet milk or cream to moisten well ; mix thi;roughly 
with this one beaten egg, and then make up into balls, 
being careful to have the surface perfectly smooth. Have 
ready one plate of beaten egg and one of cracker 
crumbs. Dip each roll or ball into the egg, and thtn 
into cracker crumbs, and fry a rich brown in hot lard. 
Serve. 



FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUk"D 

8ATI8FACTOBY AND KCOlfOHJOAL 

OATindry Dept ) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

S8» DORCBBSTBR STBSBT. Telephone 1807 



•aa 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE*S 

Butternut Pills 



ton sAi,E Ky^nrwincRK 



FR I KD MUSHR( QMS. 
When i)ec cd put ihein in'.o liot butter and let them 
heat thoroughly — too much cooking toughens them ; 
season well with butter, pepper and salt. Serve on but- 
tered toast ; a teaspoonful of wine or vinegar on each 
one is a choice way. 

KSCALLOPED TOMATOES. 
Put into an earthen baking dish a layer of cracker 
crumbs and small bits of butter, then a layer of toma- 
toes, then a layer of cracker crumbs seasoned, and so 
on till your dish is full, having a layer of cracker crumbs 
on the top ; pour over all a little water to moisten, and 
bake half an hour. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Take cold boiled potatoes cut into small square bits 
(a dozen good sized potatoes will make a common 
tureen full), chop two or thrcj small onions iine, also a 
head of celery, and mix uiih the potatoes; boil three 
eggs very hard, mix the yolks, rubbed fine, with pota- 
toes, etc., and part of the wliites, saving some for the 
top of the salad. Make a dressing of a small cupful of vin- 
egar, heaping teaspoonful of mustard, a little pepper and 
teaspoonful of salt, the yolk of a raw egg, mixed with 
three tablespoonfuls of butter or salad oil ; heat and pour 
over the potatoes; put in a cool place till wanted. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 



CORN SALVE 

AND JtEMOriJ TOUR COJtNS 



99 



LUBY'S HAIR 



GROWER anfi 
RESTORER . . 



GREEN CORN OYSTERS. 

To a pint of grated corn, add two well beaten eggs, one- 
half cupfu! of cream, and half a cupful of flour, with half a 
spoon Cook's Frieud 'st'wred in ; season with pepper and 
salt, and fry in butter, dropping the batter in spoon- 
fuls; serve a few at a time very hot. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

First prepare 'ihe cabbage by letting it stand for some 
time in cold water ; in order to make it crisp, dry well 
and shave as fine as possible ; choose a firm, white cab- 
bage. Dressing. — Rub together a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, with one tablespoonful of flour ; stir in 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and scald for a minute, 
then add the yolk of a beaten eg^and two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, salt and peppei to taste. 

• DRESSED CABBAGE. 

One small teacupful of vinegar, one ^^%, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and butter half 
the size of an egg ; beat the egg before mixing with the 
other ingredients, which should be previously put over 
the fire,then put in the tgg ; stir until it boils ; cool and 
pour over chopped or shaved cabbage. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL BEMOVB IT 



leailaclie 



100 
USE- 



McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



2S Cents Per Box 



ASPARAGUS. 
Cut off the green ends, and chop up tlie remainder of 
the stalks ; boil until tender, and season with salt and 
pepper ; have ready some toasted bread in a deep dish ; 
mix together equal parts of flour and butter to a cream, 
add to this, slowly, enough of the asparagus water or 
clear hot water to make a sauce ; boil this up once, put 
the asparagus on the toast and pour over all the sauce. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 
Boil a cabbage, then put in a colander, and drain it 
until perfectly dry ; then chop fine; put in pepper, salt, 
and a little cream, and put in an earthen baking-pan and 
into the oven. Bake one hour. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 
Wash, wipe and then cut in two ; place them in a 
baking tin with the skin side down, and season with 
pepper and salt, and place in a hot oven ; take up care- 
fully when done, and put bits of butter on each piece 
of tomato. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 
Cut a large Feejee tomato in half, flour the cut side, 
heat very hot, and put the floured side down ; when 
brown on one side, turn ; when done, pour overateacup- 
ful of hot cream or rich milk. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use MeCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REXOVE TOUR CORNS 



101 



TfiJbaudeau ^. 
Brothers & Co. 



WHOLESALE IM>^ORTer« 



OP* 



* '^^'**'''****^^-*^^***«**»(«****^^<Sf*^* 



iDry Goods 



* 
* 
^ 
« 



f ^»^^^«^4»4ft.^ i^jk^jj, . 



332 ST. RAUL 



ST. 



rDontpeol 



THIBAUDEAU FRERES & CIE. ^ ' a 

QUEBEC / vrv ^=**<=^ 

^4^ THIBAUDEAU BROTHERS & CO. 

LONDON 



102 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCi^LE*S 

Butternut Pills 



FOn SALE KVKRYWITEKi: 



CAULIFLOWER. ^.< ^k 

Remove the leaves, cut the main stalk close to the 
flower, lay it in boiling water, and water slight'/ salted 
with the stalk down ; when done, take out carefully and 
drain in a colander, then place in vegetable dish and 
pour over it a rich drawn butter dressing. 

ONIONS— BOILKD. ; 

Select those of uniform size, remove the outer skin, 
then boil until tender in a large quantity of milk and 
water; the flavor will be more delicate. P ain them 
when tender, and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

ONIONS— FRIED. 

Peel and slice and fry in lard or butter ; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve hot. 

MUSHROOMS— FRIED. 

When peeled put them into hot butter and let them 
heat thoroughly through — too much cooking toughens 
them. Season well with buttei*, pepper, and salt. Serve 
on buttered toast ; a teaspoonful of wine or vinegar on 
each mushroom is a choice method. 

FRENCH POTATOES. 
Peel and cut some potatoes in slices lengthwise, wipe 
dry .and drop them in boiling lard ; serve very hot. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wilIj REMorx: ix 



103 . 
INVALID COOKERY 



Johnston's Fluid Beef 

Is indispensable wherever there is sickness 

POTATOES AND CRKAM. 
Mince cold boiled potatoes fine; put them into a spider 
with melted butter in it ; let them fry a little in the 
butter well covered, then put in a fresh piece of butter, 
season with salt and pepper, and pour over cream or rich 
milk; let it boil up once, and serve. 

BOILED POTATOES. 
Old potatoes are better for being peeled and put in 
cold water an hour before being put over to boil. They 
should then be put into fresh cold w ter, when set over 
the fire. New pota^ioes should always be put into boiling 
water, and it io best to prepare them just in iiiue for 
cooking. Are better steamed than boiled. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One pint of green grated corn, two tablespoonfuls of 
milk, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls butter, flour tc .nake 
a batter, and fry on griddle with butter. 

SUCCOTASH. : 

One pint of green corn cut from the cob, and two- 
thirds of a pint of Lima beans, let them stew in just 
enough water to cover them until tender, then season 
with butter, pepper, salt, and a little milk, simmer to- 
gether a few moments, and serve. 



ROUGH DRY WASHINC-Something New 

hi;M) FOR VAH1'HXI.A.U3 

(Laundry Dept.) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 OOKCHKSTEP. STREKT. Telephone 1807 



104 






USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



rfa Centfi Per Btix 



CANADIAN HAKKD Hl-IANS. 

Hoil the beans, until they begin to crack, with a pound 
or two of fat salt pork ; put the beans in the baking-pan, 
score the pork across the top, and settle in the middle ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of sugar or molasses, and bake in 
ii moderate oven two hours ; they sliould be very moist 
when first put into the oven, or they will grow too dry 
in baking. Do not forget the sweetening if you want 
Yankee baked bean-.. 

bep:ts. 

Clean these nicel\-, but do not pare them, leaving on 
a short piece of the ^talk. Then put over i^ joil in hot 
water. Young bet. is will cook tender in an hour, old 
beets require sever.il hours boiling. When '^one, skin 
quickly while hot, slice thin into your vegeiuble dish, 
put on salt, pepper and a little butt-"- put over a little 
vinegar, and serye hot or cold. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, scrape well, b ike from one to one and 
one-h^If hours, according to the thickness of the squash ! 
to be eaten with salt and butter as sweet potatoes. 

FRIED SQUASHES. 

Cut the squash into thin slices, and sprinkle it with 

salt, let it stand a few moments, then beat two eggs. 

and dip the .'quash into the i gg, then fry it brown in 
butter. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

COR/V SALVE 



wiLX. nsMors it 



105 



OARIOTTE 



SALADS 



POTATO SALAD. 

M. A. T. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes; almonds blanche*.! and 
quartered; hickory nuts, if liked (both of these may be 
omitted). A very small quantity of chopped onions ; 
pour over this any good salad dressing, not too much, 
ana garnish with chopped })arsle} : cold boiled beets, 
sliced lemon, and anchovies, may be added to the salad 
if liked. 

ASPARAGi. S SALAD. 

Boil the asparagus in water until tender ; cut oft' the 
hard ends, and set the rest away. When cool, cut in 
inch long pieces, and put it in your salad dish. Pourover 
a mayonnaise dressing, and garnish with a few capers. 

CUCUMBKR SALAD. 

MRS. KING. 

Take a dozen ripe " white spine " cucumbers ; wash, 
pare and cut into strips, taking out the seeds ; cut into 
pieces, small like dice ; to each dozen cucumbers take 
twelve large white onions chopped ; six large green pep- 
pers, also chopped ; one-quarter pound each of black 
and white mustard seed, and a gill of celery seed ; mix 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND BEMOVE TOUR OORJfa 



i(u; 



^; ^SEWIN&,MACHINE 



MA^RCHEVITE 



fe_LUBRICANT 



all well together ; add a teacupful of salt, and hang up in 
a cotton bag to drain for twenty-four hours. Then add 
enough clear cold vinegar to cover it ; put into stone 
jars and fasten nearly air-tight. In six weeks it will be 
fit for use. Excellent. 



SALAD DRESSING FOR CABBAGI- OR 

LETTUCE. 

MRS. rARMELEK. 

Three eggs, two teaspoonfuls black pepper, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one tablespoonful mustard, three of melted 
butter, six teaspoonfuls sweet cream, one coffee cupful of 
vinegar; put all together on stove, and cook till it looks 
smooth like cream, sti'-ring all the time to keep from burn- 
ing ; then when cold, put over cabbage chopped fine. 

SALAD DRESSING 

MRS. A. A. ':ARrENTP:R. 

The yolks of four eggs, two-thirds of a cup of oil, red 
pepper, salt and mustard to taste, the juice of two lemons, 
and last of all, one cup of thick cream. If the dressing 
is for chicken salad, use the oil or fat from the chicken 
instead of sweet oil. Be sure to put the cream in last, 
just before sending to table. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wiltj remove it 



107 

. "MONTSERRAT " ^T!' 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

MRS. HICf.lNS. 
Two chickens chopped coarse, eight heads of celery> 
three eggs, one pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful flour, 
one tablespoondil sugar, rub the yolks of the eggs to a 
fine powder, then add th'^ salt, mustard, and oil, mixing 
well together, then add the cream, and afier that tlie vin- 
egar and raw egg. 

CHICKKN SALAD. 

MRS. IIOHRS. 
Three chickens chopped fine, both light and dark 
meat, the juice of two lemons, eight or ten eggs boiled 
hard, the whites chopped fine and the yolks mashed 
fine, moisten with six teaspoonfuls melted butter, two of 
sweet oil, to which add one tablespoonful of mustard, one 
of pepper, one of .'.alt. one of sugar, three of cream , and 
last add six larje bunches of celery chopped fine, with 
sufficient vinegar to moisten the whole. 

DRESSING WITH COTTOLENE. 

Eour egg yolks, four tablespoonfuls sugar, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one teaspoonful mustard, one teaspoonful 
pepper, one-half saltspoonful cayenne pepper, one cup- 
ful vinegar, one tablespoonful Cottolene. 

Beat the egg )/olks until stift" and smooth, then stir in 
the sugar, .salt, mustard and pepper, bring the vinegar 
to a boil, stir ir. the Cottolene, and beat it slowly into 
the eggs and spices. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

ANIt RKMOVK YOUIl CfiRXS 



108 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOJt satjB EVERYwnnnx: 



CREAM DRESSING. 

A nice dressing is made by rubbing the yolks of three 
hard boiled eggr> till smooth with a saltspoonful each 
of mustard, sugar and pepper, and one raw tgg well 
beaten. Add a little at a time, a cupful of thick cream 
alternately with two tablespoonfuls each of lemon juice 
and vinegar, beating co'islantly the while. Add the 
chopped whites of the boiled eggs. 

CHEESE SALAD. OR MOCK CRAB. 

One-half pound pickled shrimps, one-quarter pound 
good old cheese, onetahlespoonful salad oil, one-half tea- 
spoonful cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful white sugar, one teaspoonful made mustard, 
four tablespoonfuls celery or onion vinegar. 

Mince the shrimps and gra«"e the cheese. Wcr^c into 
the latter, a little at a time, the various condiments 
enumerated above, the vinegar last. Let all stand toge- 
ther ten minutes before adding the shrimps. When 
this is done, stir well for a minute and a half, and serve 
ill a glass dish, garnished with lemon, or (if you can get 
one) in a clean crab-shell. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Two quarts oysters, six egg-yolks raw, one-half cupful 
butter, one-halfcupful sugar.one-halfcupful vinegar, one- 
quarter cupful made mustard prepared with vinegar, one 
level tablespoonful salt, one level tablespoonful pepper. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McG ALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wiJjL remove it 



109 
. . . HAVE YOU TRIED A CUP OF . . . 

Johnston's Fluid Beef 

THE LAST THING AT NIGHT? 



It ensures (juict nnd restful sleep 

Carefully remove all particles of shell from the oys- 
ters, and strain their liquor, put the oysters and liquor 
together in a saucepan, and place them over a fire to 
boil, mix in another saucepan the yolks of eggs, butter, 
sugar, vinegar, mustard, salt and pepper, stir these in- 
gredients together over the fire until the ^gg yolks begin 
to thicken, then at once remove them from the fire, and 
continue to stir them for two minutes ; when the oysters 
begin to boil, take them up and dra'n off the liquor, 
thoroughly wash and dry four heads of lettuce, and tear 
them in small pieces, or use instead of the lettuce as 
much tender celery, carefully cleaned aud chopped, as 
will equal the oysters in quantity ; when the oysters are 
cold chop them a little, but do not cut them in very 
small bits, add to them the dressing made as directed 
above, and the lettuce or celery. The salad should be 
used soon after it is made. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Select heavy small lobsters rather than large ones, 
put them in warm water and let boil about half an hour. 
Take from the shells and claws all the meat that is eat- 
able. Cut it in blocks and let it cool thoroughly. Use 
mayonnaise dressing, also thoroughly cold. When ready 
to sjrve, make a nest of lettuce on the dish, mix about 
three-fourths of the dressing with the cut lobster, place 



MANGLED WORK BY TK^ POUND 

SEND FOB PARTICHLARS 

(Laundry Dept.) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DORCHBSTEB STRKBT. Telephone 1807 



110 



Veanacle 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2/S Cents l*or lirtx 



it in the disli, cover it with the remainitifr dressing-, gar- 
nish with small tufts of lettuce and with the smaller 

claws. 

SALAD. 

MISS ADA'KINd. 

Two eggs boiled hard, one teaspoonful mustard, two 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, one cupful milk, two heads celery 
and one-half cupful sugar. 

FISH SALAD. 

M. A. T. 

Boil tender a white-fish or trout, chop fine, add 
sani" quantity chopped celery, cabbage or lettuce, sea- 
on same as chicken salad. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

ANONYMOUS. 
Take cold vegetables left from dinner, such as potatoes,, 
peas, string beans, shell beans, beets, etc., and chill them 
on the ice, cover with ma)'onnaise, and serve. You may 
use for this any salad dressing. 

FRENCH TOMATO SALAD. 

Remove the skins from smooth ripe tomatoes, halve 
and arr.mge carefully on a platter or flat glass dish 
almost smothered in chopped ice. Leave in a sauce 
dish, a dressing made of one-half of a cup light brown 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND MEMOVE TOUR CORNS 



Ill 



Only 50c. 
a Bottle . 



LUBY'S 



PARISIAN 
HAIR RENEWER 



sugar, one cupful vinegar, with salt and pt'p[)er to taste. 
As each plate of the tomato is served poi.. some dress- 
ing over, as the tomato loses i;s flavor when the dress, 
ing remains on any time. 

CRAB SALAD. 

Boil the crabs, and when done remove the meat in as 
large pieces as possible. Pour over this a French salad 
dressing made of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and send 
to table with handsome white lettuce leaves. Crab salad 
is much improved by rem.iining on ice several hours. 

FISH SALAD. 

One can of salmon, or the same amount of any cold 
fish, either boiled or baked, and from which remove the 
skin and bones. Chop, when cold, three large boiled 
potatoes, and mix with the fish. Rub smooth the yolks 
of three hard-boiled eggs, season with pepper, salt and 
mustard, add two tablespoonfuls of cream and one gill 
of vinegar, pour the dressing over the fish and pccatoes. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 
• Cut the cucumber in thin slices and st)ak in cold water 
for an hour, cut some cold boiled potatoes in thin slices, 
using about half the quantity of potatoes that you use 
of cucumbers. Mix them together, and pour over them 
French dressing, adding a littl'^ extra vinegar if aesired. 



YOU HAVE 
' ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

WI L L Jt EMO VK \IT 



112 

/MONTSERRAT "Z!^. 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had trom. 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Parboil the sweetbreads, ste\ • them slowly in a livtle 
soup stock, or water ; when done, chop fine. Put a 
tablespoonful of corn-starch, a cup of wacer, a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar, a tea-cupful of cream, two beaten eggs> 
over the fire to thicken ; season with pepper and salt, 
celery, nutmeg and pa» ley, and stir the sweetbreads 
into it; boil five minutes. Spread upon a dish to cool, 
then cut in pieces, roll in bread crumbs and boil in hot 
lard. 

HAM CROQUETTES. 

Chop a pound of cooked ham very fine ; mix with it 
two raw eggs, one teaspoonful each of salt and powdered 
sage, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and half a pound of 
stale bread soaked in cold water until soft, and then 
squeezed dry in a towel. When all these ingredients 
are thoroughly mixed, wet the hands in cold water and 
make the mixture into little cork-shaped rolls or cro- 
quettes ; dip the croquettes into flour seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and then fry them brown in a frying-kettle 
half full of smoking hot fat. When the croquettes are 
brown, take them out of the fat with a skimmer, lay them 
for a moment on brown paper to free them from grease, 
and then serve them hot. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use MeCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



113 



; ruyoiG EximicTS 



THE PUREST 

. . . AJ»D . . . 

. . . . THE BEST 

. . . AX . . . 

CHARRON'S PHARMACY 

lVk%:^ i;'r^'r\'.. .00 1978 Notre Dame St. 

GREEN CORN CROQUETTES. 

One quart young, tender grated green corn, one cup 
sifted flour, one cup sweet milk, five scant tablespoonfuls 
Cottolene, two eggs,onc saltspoonful salt, same of pepper. 

Grate the corn as fine as possible, and mix with the 
flour, and pepper, and salt. Warm the milk and melt 
the Cottolene in it. Add the corn, stir hard and let cool. 
Then stir the eggs beaten very light, the whites added 
last. Work into small oval balls, and fry in plenty of 
hot Cottolene. Drain and serve hot. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 
Take cold boiled rice ; allow a small spoon of Cottolene 
and a beaten egg to each cup of boiled rice. Roll into 
oval balls, with floured hands. Dip in beaten egg, then 
in sifted bread or cracker crumbs, and fry in hot Cot- 
tolene. Good with maple syrup. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES. 

Six ounces macaroni, three teaspoonfuls Cottolene, 
two tablespoonfuls grated cheese, half a pint milk, two 
tablespoonfuls flour, three yolks of eggs, salt and pepper 
to taste. 

Break the macaroni in pieces about two inches long. 
Put in a kettle nearly full of boiling water, and boil 
rapidly twenty-five minutrs. When done put it into a 
colander to drain, then into cold water for fifteen min- 

FAMILY WASHING OUR SPECIALTY 

(LwndryDept) Tho MONTREAL TOILE1 SUPPLY CO. 
580 DORCHKSTKR STREET. Telepbon« 1807 

8 



114 



lu- 



ll 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USINQ . . . 

Butternut Pills 



ran salb kverywhkrk 



utes, drai'i again, and then cut it in pieces a half-inch 
long. Put the milk on to b il. Rub Cottolene and 
flour together until smooth, stir into the milk when 
boiling, and stir continually until it thickens; then add 
the cheese and macaroni, salt, pepper and egg yolks, 
cook one minute longer, then turn on a plate to cool. 
When cold, form into cone-shaped croquettes, roll 
first in egg and tl in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling 
Cottolene. Serve with cream sauce. 

FARINA CROQUETTES. 

One pint milk, eight tablespoonfuls farina, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one tablespoonful chopped parsley, one 
saltspoonful white pepper, two egg yolks. 

Put the milk in a double boiler ; when hot, add the 
farina ; cook until thick, then add salt, chopped parsley, 
pepper, a grating of lemon rind, and the yolks of eggs ; 
turn out to cool ; when cold form in cylinder, dip in eggs, 
then in crumbs, and fry in very hot Cottolene. 

« 

SWEET POTA.TO CROQUETTES. , 

For eight croquettes use half a cupful hot milk, two 
generous tablespoonfuls butter, one teaspoonful salt, 
two eggs, enough boiled sweet potatoes to make a pint, 
bread crumbs. 

When the potatoes have been mashed smooth and 
light, beat into them the hot milk, and then the salt and 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CX^RN SALVE 



WILL REMOVn IT 



115 



Johnstons Fluid Beef 

IS FIFTY TIMES MORE 
NOURISHING THAN . . 

M2AT EXTRACTS OF HOME MADE BEEP TEA 



butter. Next beat one c^g until light, and beat this 
into the mixture, which should now be shaped into 
croquettes. Beat the second egg in a soup plate. 
Cover the croquettes with this egg, and roll them in the 
bread crumbs. Fry in fat till they turn a rich brown. 
Serve at once. 

stewp:d mushrooms. 

The test of mushrooms is, if good, the silver spoon 
with which they are cooked will not tarnish. 

Put them in a saucepan wilh salt and a very little 
water, let cook half an hour, and then to one quart of 
mushrooms add one tablespoonful butter, one of floar, 
with half a pint of cream. Let all cook for five minutes 
and serve on toast. 

CREAM HASH. 

Chop mutton, veal or beef as fine as for hash, fry for 
a few moments in salt pork drippings. Take from the 
fire, and, in the same frying-pan, make a rich cream 
gravy, if cream is a possibility ; if not, use milk, thicken- 
ing it with corn-starch, and adding a generous lump of 
butter. Pour half of the gravy into a pan over the fire 
thin it with hot water, dip in it slices of well-browned 
toast, lay the moistened toast upon a flat dish and set 
it in a warm place. Into the thick cream gravy put 
the minced meat, cook it five minutes, then spread it 
upon the toast. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AKD REMOVE YOUR CORNS 



lie 



SEWING MACHINE 



MA'RCHEVITE 



:<^. LUBRICANT 



MOCK SWEETBREADS. 
Take the strings and sinews from two pounds of lean 
veal, and chop it very fine, v/ith one quarter pound veal 
suet ; soak a roll in milk and b^ .t it light. Mix this 
with the veal and suet, and grat*^ of lemon peel, pepper, 
salt, a very little nutmeg and two eggs. Shape like a 
sweetbread, egg and breadcrumb it, fry a golden brown, 
and serve with thick veal gravy. 

BRAIN FRITTERS. 

After washing and ridding the brains of fibre and 
skin, drop them into boiling water and cook gently for 
fifteen minutes, then throw into ice-cold water. When 
they are stiff and white, wipe and mash them to a 
batter with a wooden spoon, seasoning with salt and 
pepper. Beat into this an egg, half a cup of milk and 
two or three tablespoonfuls of prepared flour. Drop 
in boiling fat by the tablespoonful, fry quickly, shake in 
a heated colander to free them of fat, and serve very 
hot. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One pint grated sweet corn, one egg well beaten, 
half a teacupful flour. 

Mix well together, and drop a tablespoonful at a time 
in boiling Cottolene. Delicious for lunch with cold 
boiled ham. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL MMMOVJB IX 



117 



,f^' 



MONTSERRAT 



LIME FRUIT 
. . JUICE . . 



IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Qrocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



PICKLES 



I'ICKLKD CHERRIES. 
Five pounds of cherries, stoned or not, one quart of 
vinef^ar, two pounds of sugar, one-half ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-half ounce of cloves, one-half ounce of mace; 
boil the sugar and vinegar and spices together (grind 
the spici s and tie them in a muslin bag), and pour hot 
over the cherries. 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

MRS. MEEK. 
To seven pounds plums, four pounds sugar, two 
ounces stick cinnamon, two ounces cloves, and a quart 
vinegar, add a little mace ; put in the jar first a layer of 
plums, then a layer of spices alternately ; scald the vin- 
egar and sugar together, pour it over the plums, repeat 
three times for plums (only once for cut apples and 
pears), the fourth time scald all together ; put them into 
glass jars, and they are ready for use. 

PICKLED APPLES. 

MRS. WATSON. 

For one peck of sweet apples take three pounds of 
sugar, two quarts of vinegar, one- half ounce of cinnamon, 

. . SEND FOR OUR PRICES FOR . . 

(Laundry Dept.) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
689 DORCHESTER STREET. Telephone ISO? 



I 



Sick 
geanacte 



lis 

USE- 



McCAL£*8 

Butternut Pills 



Q/i CantH I'Gr Bnx 



one-half ounce cloves; pare the apples, leaving I'lem 
whole; boil them in part of the vinegar and sugar until 
you can put a fork through them ; take them out, heat 
the remainder of the vinegar and sugar, and poi 
over them. Be caieful not to boil them too long oith'^y 
will break. 

OUDE SAUCE. 

C. KENNICOTT. 

One pint green tomatoes, six peppers (not large), 
four onions, chop together; add one cupful salt, and let it 
stand over night ; in the morning, drain off the water, 
add one cupful sugar, one cupful horse-radish, one table- 
spoonful ground cloves, one tablespoonful cinnamon ; 
cover with vinegar, and stew gently all day. 

MY MOTHER'S FAVORITE PICKLE. 

MRS. SAVAGE. 

One quart raw cabbage chopped fine, one quart boiled 
beets chopped fine, two cupfuls of sugar, tablespoonful of 
salt, oneteaspoonful black pepper, one-fourth teaspoon ful 
red pepper, one teacupful of grated horse-radish : cover 
with cold vinegar, and keep from the air. 

INDIAN PICKLES. 

Take three quarts vinegar, one-quarter pound must-ird 
one-half ounce black pepper, one ounce cloves, one ounce 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND KEiaOVE YOUR CORNS 



11«.> 



. . spool Silks . . 

^>^ irr>/? DRESSMAKING 

* Di m 

BELDIN&S^^.^ 

. CDosh flpt Sill^s . 

NEEDLE WORK 



. . GIVE THE BEST SATISFACTION . . 



Bedding ! 



Get your Bedding and Bedsteads 
from a First-class House 



BeTABLiaHEo SS Years ^ Rock Bottom Prtioca 



Old Bed Feathers auii Mattresses Purified 
and Re-made at the Shortest Notice . . 



-¥ii»¥li- 



J. E. TOWNSHEND 

IkLITTLE ST. ANTOINE ST.. Cor. St. James St. only 

Telephone t906 

NO BRANCH STORES- 



Liver 
Troubles 



120 

... CURED BY USING . . , 

M<. X ALE*S 

Butternut Pills 



ron SALE EVURYWHERB 



allspice, one ounce turmeric, one ounce ginger, one 
ounce cayenne pepper, a handful salt, same of sugar ; boil 
for twenty minutes. When cold, put in the vegetables 
and cover closely ; if the liquid should become thin, 
boil again, and add more mustard in three weeks after 
making. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

MRS. T. H. RILKY. 

Take one bushel of lipe tomatoes, boil them until 
they are soft, squeeze them through a fine wire sieve, 
and add half a gallon of vinegar, one pint of salt, two 
ounces of cloves, a quarter of a pound of allspice, two 
ounces cayenne pepper, three tablespoonfuls of ground 
peppers, five heads of garlic (skinned and separated). 
Mix together and boil three hours, or unl il reduced to 
about one-half. Bottle without straining. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

MRS. GEORGE SIMPSON. 

Slice and boil for an hour, with six small red peppers, 
half a bushel of ripe tomatoes, strain through a colander 
and boil for an hour, with two tablespoonfuls of black 
pepper, two ounces ginger, one ounce allspice, one-half 
ounce cloves, one-eighth ounce mace, one-quarter pound 
salt. When cold, add two ounces mustard, two ounces 
currie powder, and one pint of vinegar. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WJLh REMOVE IT 



121 



LUBY'S ^'^'^ HAIR 



PICKLKD CAULIFLOWER. 

After cutting off all the green leaves, put the cauli- 
flower into boiling water, with a good supply of salt, 
and boil from three to five minutes, take them out of 
the salt and water, dip them in clear cold water one 
minute to send the heat to the heart of the cauliflower, 
cut them in pieces convenient to put in jars, then make 
a mixture of one table^poonful of mace, one of cloves, 
one of allspice, one of ginger, two of white mustard 
seed, and a red pepper pod, with each a gallon of vin- 
egar. Let the mixture boil, and pour it upon the 
cauliflower, cover it closely and let it stand "one week, 
then pour off the vinegar, scald it, and return it hot 
again to the cauliflower, then put it in jars ready for 
use. The best cider vinegar should be used, and if 
it is not perfectly clear, it will dissolve the cauliflower. 

WORCESTER SAUCE. 

MRS. T. B. RILEY. 

One ounce cayenne pepper, one quart vinegar, two 
tablespoon^ .IS soy, three '^iovcs garlic pounded, three 
cloves shalots pounded, five anchovies bruised fine. 
The whole to be well mixed and rubbed through a 
sieve. Keep for ten days corked up, and then bottle for 
use. Strain or not, as preferred. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AJVn MKMnVJS TaVR CnltNH 



122 



leaiiaclie 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



SS Cents Pel- Bax 



SPICEl. CURRANTS TO BE EATEN WITH 

MEATS. 

MRS. CARSON. 

Four quarts currants, one pint of vinegar, three 
pounds sugar, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one of all- 
spice, one of cloves, one of nutmeg ; cook one hour ; keep 
in a cool place, tightly covered. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

MRS. C. D. HOWARD. 

Take five pounds of brown sugar to one rallon of 
pure cider vinegar ; boil it hard for thircy minutes, 
skimming off the scum lill clear ; rub off the peaches in 
the meantime out of boiling water (quickly) with a flan- 
nel cloth, sticking four cloves in each peach, and put a 
bag of cinnamon into the boiling syrup. If the peaches 
are clingstones, put them into the boiling syrup for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, if freestones, lay them in the 
jar in layers, and pour the syrup over them while hot 
then put a small plate over to keep them from rising, 
and cover tightly with cloth or paper. In four days 
look at them, and, if necessary, boil the syrup again, 
and pour on while hot ; keep them in a cool place while 
the weather is hot to prevent their souring. The 
white sugar cling is nice for pickling, and the blood 
peach is very rich, but dark. Small pears can be pick- 
led in the same manner, if the skin is taken off. 



you HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wiltj remove it 



123 



Johnston's Fluid Beef 

with Hypophosphltes 



This excellent preparation combines the virtues of Prime Beef and the Tonlo 
Hypophospliites, and is, therefore, a footl and a tonic. 



BURNT BUTTER FOR FISH OR EGGS. 

MISS BEATV. 

Heat two ounces of butter in a frying-pan till a dark 
brown, then add a tablespoonful of vinegar, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a dozen shakes from the pep- 
per-box. 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Tal .. ripe cucumbers, cut them lengthwise, take out 
seeds, soak in salt and water twenty-four hours. Then 
soak in vinegar and water twenty-four hours. Drain. 
Then make a syrup of one quart vinegar, one pound 
sugar, one ounce cinnamon, and half an ounce cloves. 
Boil till tender. 

SWEET PICKLES OR SPICED FRUITS. 

MISS WISTER. 

These are delicious all through the winter. They 
may be made from all fruits that are usually " put up." 
Watermelon rind, cantaloupes and citron are very nice 
spiced. 

To spice fruits, use eight pounds of fruit to four pounds 
of sugar — good brown sugar is richer than white ; one 
qu?rt of vinegar, one cup of mixed whole spice, all- 
spice, cloves, stick cinnamon, a very little mace and 
some Cassia buds ; do not use as much of the cloves as 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE TOUR CORNS 



Liver 
Troubles 



124 

. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOn SALE KVERTWIIERE 



of the others. Tie the spices in one or more bags, boil 
them in the vinegar and sugar. Skim well, and then 
add the fruit, boil till scalded and tender. Skim out the 
fruit, and pack carefully in stone jars ; boil the syrup five 
minutes longer, then pour over the fruit. The next day 
pour off the syrup, boll again, and pour again on 
the fruit ; do this for three successive days. Keep 
the bags of spices in the syrup, and'lay one on the top of 
each jar of fruit. For those who do not care for very 
sweet spiced fruits, the proportions may be four pounds 
of sugar to ten pounds of fruit. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

MISS WISTER. 

Twelve pounds peaches with stones, six pounds sugar, 
one pint best cider vinegar, two ounces whole cinnamon, 
two ounces cloves. 

Boil spices, sugar and vinegar together for five minutes, 
then throw in fruit, and cook five minutes longer. Ready 
for use in two weeks. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

MISS WISTt:R. 

Equal quantities of cauliflower, small onions, nastur- 
tiums, sliced green tomatoes, small cucumbers and beans. 
Keep them covered with strong salt and water over 

FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

SATISFA) TORY AND EloXOMICAL 

(Laundry D^pt ) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 nOKCHESTER STREET. Telephone 1807 



125 

/MONTSERRAT^rS™ 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 

night ; scald the brine, and pour over them in the mor- 
ning, dissolving a small bit of alum in the brine; when 
cold, drain thoroughly. In a gallon of vinegar put a cup 
of brown sugar, and scald it well ; stir into it three table- 
spoonfuls of flour and one-quarter pound of ground mus- 
tard mixed well together, also a little turmeric, allspice, 
cloves and a pint of grated horse-radish ; cutup a dozen 
small red peppers, and mix with the vegetables , then 
pour over the v,hole the scalded vinegar. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

MISS WISTER. 

Take one dozen large cucumbers and the same num- 
ber of large onions. Pare and slice them, and spread 
them out upon a sieve over a large bowl. Strew over 
them a handful of salt — which will draw out the juice 
— and let them stand in the sieve for twenty-fours. 
Then take the juice, or liquor, from the bowl and put 
it in a stew--/an with four ounces of anchovies, a pint 
of white wine, a quarter of an ounce of whole mace and 
half an ounce of pepper. Simmer for half an hour, then 
strain, and when cold bottle for use. If the bottles 
are corked tightly, and the corks tied down with bladder, 
this catsup will keep for two or three years. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

MISS WISTER. 
Half a bushel tomatoes, half a gallon vinegar,half ounce 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McG ALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT, RMMOVB IT 



M 

geadacle 



126 
USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



23 Cants l^er Box 



cayenne pepper, one-quarter ounce allspice, one ounce 
cloves, half a pint salt. 

Boil the tomatoes until soft enough to press through 
a sieve, then add the other ingredients. Boil three hours 
to reduce one-half the quantity. When cool add one 
pint of brandy. Bottle and cork tight. 

COLD CATSUP. 

MISS WISTER. 

Half a peck tomatoes sliced fine, two roots grated 
horse-radish, one small teacupful fine salt, one-half tea- 
cupful white mustard seed, one-half tea-cupful black mus- 
tard seed, one tablespoouful ground black pepper, two 
red peppers cut fine without seeds, four celery stalks cut 
fine,one tea-cupful nasturtiums or onions, one teaspoonful 
ground cloves, one teaspoonful ground mace, two tea- 
spoonfuls ground cinnamon, one tea-cupful sugar, three 
pints good cider vinegar. 

Mix the above ingredients, and it will be ready for 
immediate use. It improves with age. 

A NICE PICKLE. 

MISS WISTER. 
One colander of pickling cucumbers cut in four pieces, 
same quantity of celery cut fine, horse-radish and pepper 
to taste, small head of cabbage cut fine. Make dressing 
of mustard, vinegar and sweet oil, with a teaspoonful 
of turfneric. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND It E MOVE YOUR COJtXS 



127 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOIt SAI.i: KVKRTWIIKRK 



PICKLED OYSTERS. 

MRS. CARL HAMMOND. 

Wash the oysters and scald them in strong salt and 
water, skim them out and throw into cold water, scald 
vinegar well and whole peppers, let it get cold. I'ut 
the oysters in a stone jar, make liq^ior to cover them of 
water they were scalded in, and vinegar. A cup of vin- 
egar to one quart liquor ; to be used cold. 

BRINE THAT PRESERVES BUTTER A YEAR. 

MRS. 1). MCCRANEY. 

To three gallons of brine, strong enough to bear an 
egg, add one-quarter pound good loaf sugar, and one 
tablespoonful of saltpetre, boil the brine, and when it is 
cold strain carefully. Pack butter closely in small jars, 
and allow the brine to cover the butter to the depth of 
at least four inches. This completely excludes the air. 
If practicable, make your butter into small rolls, wrap 
each carefully in a clean muslin cloth, tying up with a 
string ; place a weight over the butter to keep it all sub- 
merged in the brine. This mode is most recommended 
by those who have tried both. 

TOMATOES WHOLE FOR WINTER USE. 

MRS. J. SAULTER. 
Fill a large stone jar with ripe tomatoes, then add a 



you HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILZ REMOVE IT 



128 



Beailaclie 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



9a CentH ror Jiftx 



few whole cloves and a little suejar, cover them well 
with one half cold vinegar and half water, place a piece 
of flannel over the jar well down into the vinegar, then 
tie down with paper. I have kept tomatoes in this way 
the year round, and can cheerfully recommend them. 
Should mildew collect on the flannel it will not injure 
the tomatoes in the least. 

CUCUMBERS FOR PRESENT USE. 

MRi;, RILEY. 

The best way of utilizing cucumbers (or present use 
is to parboil them in a solution of water, vinegar, and 
salt. They should be split in two before boiling, and 
if done properly, will present a beautiful green color. 

TOMATO MUSTARD, ■ 

MRS. SPAULDING. 
One peck of tomatoes, ripe, half-pound salt, six red 
peppers, three tablespoonfuls of b.'ack pepper, one ounce 
ginger, one ounce allspice, one-half ounce mace, one -half 
ounce cloves, a few cloves of garlic, two onions, one- 
quarter pound mustard, a tablespoonful of red peppers, 
and a half pint vinegar. Peel the tomatoes, and boil an 
hour with six red peppers, then add the other spices 
(excepting the mustard and vinegar, which are added 
after the sauce is strained through a colander and 
cooled), and boil another hour. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'3 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE TOUR CORNS 



129 



LUBY'S HAIR 



OR0W£R and 
BESTOBEB . . 



• CHOW-CHOW. 

MRS. JOHN CORTHELL. 

Two heads cabbage, two heads cauliflower, one dozen 
cucumbers, six roots of celery, six peppers, one quart of 
small white onions, two quarts green tomatoes; cut into 
small pieces, and boil each vegetable separately until 
tender, then strain them. Two gallons of vinegar, one- 
fourth pound of mustard, one-fourth pound of mustard 
seed, one pot of French mustard, one ounce of cloves, 
two ounces of turmeric ; put the vinegar and spices into 
a kettle c .)d let them come to a boil ; mix the vegetables 
and pour over the dressing. 

CURRIED DISHES. 

MISS BEATV. 

Chickens and veal are most suitable for curries. Boil 
the meat till tender, and separate the joint. Put a 
little butter in a stew-pan with the chickens, pour on a 
part of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, enough 
to cover it, and let it stew twenty minutes more. Pre- 
pare the curry thus : for four pounds of meat take a 
tablespoonful of curry powder, ateacupful of boiled rice, 
and a tablespoonful of flour and another of melted but- 
ter, a teacupfulof the liquor and halfa teaspoonful of salt ; 
mix them, and pour them over the meat, and let stew 
ten minutes more. Rice should be boiled for an accom- 
paniment. 

ROUGH DRY WASHINC-Something New 

BKNn F(1K I'AUTKUL/VRS 

(Laundry Dept.) Tho MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DORGHESTKB STREET. Telephone 1807 

9 



Liver 
Troubles 



130 
. . . CURED BY USINQ , . . 

McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALB EVEBTWirERE 



DRESSING SALAD. 

MRS. KILKV. 

In dressing salad it should be thoroughly saturated 
with oil, and seasoned v/ith salt and pepper before vin- 
egar is added. The salt should not be dissolved in the 
vinegar but in the oil, by which means it is niore equally 
distributed through the salad. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

MISS iu<:aty. 

Pour boiling water on the tomatoes ; let them stand 
until you can rub off the skin, then cover them with salt, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours. Then strain 
them, and to two quarts put three ounces of cloves, tw© 
ounces of pepper and two nutmegs. Boil half an 
hour, then add a pint of wine. 




YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMOVE IT 



131 

. 'MONTSERRAT "" S™ 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had firom 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



EGGS and OMELETS 



EGGS. 

Eggs half a day old are better for the cook than the 
" fresh laid egg." 

Do not poach eggs that are not fresh. Serve bread 
with eggs. I'>ggs prepared in some of the recipes here 
given are served at lunch instead of soup. 

EGGS A LA BECHAMEL. 

Six eggs rne tablespoonful flour, one gill cream, one 
tablespoonl-il butter, one gill white or veal stock, one 
egg yolk, salt and pepper to taste. 

Boil the eggs fifteen minutes while they are boiling, 
prepare the sauce as follows : Melt the butter in a 
frying-pan, being careful not to burn it add to it the 
flour. Mix until smooth, add the stock and cream, and 
stir continually until it boils; add 5,alt and pepper, and 
stand it over the tea-kettle to keep warm while you 
shell the eggs. Cut the whites into thin shreds. Chop 
yolks into tiny squares, then pile them in the center of 
a shallow heated dish, and arrange the whites around 
them. Give the sauce a stir, and pour it around the eggs. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

A.Jfn JtEMOVE TaVJt COHJfS 



132 



A'?^ SEWING-MACHINE 



MAiRCHEVlTE 



LUBRICANT 



EGGS A LA CRKME. 

Six eggs, one tablespoon ful flour, one tablespoonful 
butter, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half pint milk, 
pepper to taste. 

lioil the eggs fifteen minutes, remove the shells and 
cut them in halves crosswise. Slice a little bit off the 
bottom to make them stand. Put the butter in a 
frying-pan to melt, then add the flour. Mix until 
smooth, add the milk, and stir continually until it b ils ; 
add the salt and pepper. Stand the eggs on a heated 
platter, pour the sauce over and around them. Serve 
very hot. 

SPANISH OMELET. 

Six eggs, one medium sized tomato, one small onion, 
one dash black pepper, three tablespoonfuls milk, five 
mushrooms, one-quarter pound bacon, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful salt. 

Cut the bacon into very small pieces and fry it until 
brown ; then add to it the tomato, onion and mushrooms 
chopped fme ; stir, and cook fifteen minutes. Break 
the eggs in a bowl, and give them twelve vigorous 
beats with a fork ; add to them the salt and pepper. Now 
put a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a smooth 
frying-pan, turn it around so as to grease the bottom 
and sides. When the butter is hot, pour in the eggs 
and shake over a quick fire until they are set. Now 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McG ALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wilta REiaorxs ix 



133 



Lemon Phosphate 

Tlilii pro|iaratloii !■ tha Nntural A<-iil of the 
Lemon uoiubiiieil with Acid PliuHjiiiiite . . . 



A REFRESHING AND TONIC DRr.K 



quickly pour the mixture from the other fryin^j-pan 
over the omelet, fold it over once, and turn it out in the 
center of a heated platter, and serve immediately. • 

PLAIN AND FANCY OMELET. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs till light-colored and thick; 
add two tablespoonfuls of milk, one saltspoonful of 
salt, and one-fourth of a saltspoonful of pepper. Heat 
the whites of two eggs till stiff and dry. Cut and fold 
them lightly into the yolks till just covered. Have a 
clean, smooth omelet pan. When hot, rub it round the 
edge with ateaspoonful of butter on a broad knife ; let 
the butter run all over the pan, and when bubbling turn 
in the omelet quickly and spread it evenly on the pan. 
Lift the pan from the hottest part of the fire and cook 
carefully, until slightly browned underneath ; slip the 
knife under to keep it from burning in the middle. Put 
it on the oven grate to dry (not brown) the top. When 
the whole center is dry as you cut into it, run a knife 
round the edge, then under the half nearest the handle, 
and fold over to the right. Hold the edge of a hot 
platter against the lower edge of the pan and invert 
the omelet upon the platter. Or add only half of the 
beaten whites to the yolks, and when nearly cooked 
spread the remainder over the top, let it heat through, 
fold over, and the white will burst out round the edge 
like a border of foam, making a foam omelet, or any 
fancy name you may choose to give it. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AJa> : EStOVE TOUH CORNS 



134 



leanacie 



USE- 



McCALE'8 



Butternut Pills 



2S Cents Per Bax 



If you have no omelet-pan, or no convenience for 
drying the omelet in the oven, use a smooth iron spider 
or frying-pan with a tin cover, and double the quantities 
given. Heat the pan and cover very hot. Butter the 
pan, turn in the mixture, cover it and place on the 
back of the stove for five minutes, or till firm. Fold 
as usual. Omelets should be only slightly browned, 
never burned, as the flavor of scorched eggs is not agree- 
able. 

One tablespoonful of chopped parsley, or a teaspoon- 
ful of fine grated onion, or two or three tablespoonfuls 
of grated sweet corn may be added to the yolks before 
cooking. 

Thin slices of cold ham, or three spoonfuls of chopped 
ham, veal or chicken, stewed tomatoes or raw tomatoes 
sliced, chopped mushrooms, shrimps, oysters which have 
been parboiled and drained, cooked clams chopped 
fine, or grated cheese, may be spread on the omelet 
before folding, giving all the varieties of fancy omelets, 
each variety taking the name of the additional ingre- 
dients. 

BAKED OMELET AUX FINES HERBES. 

Make this a course between soup and meat, passing 
bread and butter with it. 

Six eggs, one cup boiling milk, one teaspoonful corn- 
starch wet with cold milk, one tablespoonful chopped 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wiltj JiMMorjs zx 



135 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . , 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



X-OIt SALE ETEBTWITJEnX! 



par.slc\', thjme and sweet marjoram mixed, pepper and 
salt, butter for the dish. 

Beat the yolks light, and pour upon them the hot 
milk. Stir in the corn-starch, season, whip in the frothc'd 
whites, lastly the herbs. Have ready a nice pudding 
dish, well buttered. Set in the oven until hot, butter 
again, and pour in the orr.elet. Bake about twelve 
minutes, or un*-il " set" in the middle, but not longer, or 
it will be a leathery puff. It ^should be very light. 
Send up instantly. 

BAKED EGGS. 

MRS. L. M. ANGLE. 
Break six or seven eggs into a buttered dish, taking 
care that each is whole, and does not encroach upon the 
others so much as to mix or disturb the yolks, sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and put a bit of butter upon each- 
Put into an oven and bake until the whites are set. 
This is far superior to fried eggs, and very rice for break- 
fast, served or toast or alone. 

POACHED EGGS. 
Break as many eggs as you wish to use, one at a time, 
and drop carefully into a spider filled with boiling water. 
When the whites of the eggs arc well set, slip a spoon 
carefully under and take out, laying each upon a small 
piece of buttered toast on the platter. Put a very small 
piece of butter on each egg, a slight dash of pepper, and 
serve immediately. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AXD HEIWOVJE TOUR CORyS 



136 



geanacKe 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2/i Cents Per- Box 



OMELET— (SPLENDID). 
Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, half 
pint milk, six teaspoonfuls cornstarch, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, and a little salt ; add the whites, beaten 
to a stiff froth, last ; cook in a little butter. 

FRENCH OMELET. 
M. 
One cupful boiling milk with one tablespoonful of but- 
ter melted in it ; pour this on one cup of bread crumbs 
(the bread must be light) ; add salt, pepper, and the yolks 
of six eggs well beaten, mix thoroughly, and lastly add 
the six whites cut to a stiff froth, mix lightly and fry 
with hot butter ; this will make two. When almost done, 
turn togethe** in shape of half moon. 

BAKED OMELET. 

MRS. EDWARD ELY. 
Six eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt, one 
cupful of milk. Take a little of the milk, and stir the flour 
into it ; add the rest of the milk and the yolks of the 
eggs ; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and pour into the flour, milk and yolks ; put a piece of 
butter the size of a small egg into an iron spider, pnd 
let it get hot, but not so the butter will burn ; then pour 
the mixture in, and put in a moderate oven to bake in 
the spider. It takes about ten minutes to bake. Then 
slip a knife undci and loosen, and slip off on a large plate 
or platter. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMOVE IT 



137 

/MONTSERRAT '"?rr 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



FRUITS 

Fruit for preserving should be carefully selected, 
removing all that are imperfect. They are in the best 
condition when not fully ripe, and as soon as possible 
after they are picked. Small fruit should not be allowed 
to stand over night after they are picked when they are 
to be preserved. Use only the finest sugar for preserv- 
ing. 

SUGARED FRUITS. 

Beat the white of the egg just enough to break, then 
dip fine stems of ch'^rries or currants into the egg and 
then into powdered sugar, and dry on a sieve. 

BAKED PEARS. 
Place in a stone jar, first a layer of pears (without part- 
ing), then a layer of sugar, then pears, and so on until 
the jar is full. Then put in as much water as it will 
hold. Bake in oven three hours. 

BAKED APPLES. 
Pare as many apples as you wish of some nice variety, 
neither sweet nor sour ; core them by using an apple- 
corer or a steel fork ; set them in biscuit tins and fill 
the cavities with sugar, a little butter, and some ground 
cinnamon, if you like; set them in the oven, and bake 
until done. 

MANGLED WORK SY THE POUND 

BF.yn vnn PAUllcrLABS 

Oaundry Dept.) Jh© MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DOKCUKSTER HTUKBT. Telephone 1807 



Liver 
Troubles 



138 

, . . CURED BY USINQ , , , 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALB EVERTWHEBIS 



SPICED PEACHES OR PEARS. 
To two pounds good mellow neaches, use five pounds 
sugar, one pint of good vinegar, and some whole cloves 
or cinnamon. Take the sugar, vinegar and cloves, and 
let them come to a boil, and turn over the fruit. This 
do three days in succession, and the last day put the 
fruit into the syrup, a few at a time, and let them just 
boil up. 

CANiNED CURRANTS. 

MRS. SxMYTHE. 

Put sufficient sugar 1 3 prepare tl .'m for the table, then 
boil them ten minutes and seal hot as possible. 

APPLE PRESERVE,— GOOD. 

Weigh equal quantities of good brown sugar and 
apples; peel, core, and cut the apples into small .square 
pieces ; make a syrup of one pint of water to three pounds 
of sugar, boil until pretty thick, then add the apples, 
the grated peel of a lemon or two, a little whole white 
ginger (if liked) ; boil until the apples arc clear and 
begin to fall, then it will be done. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

MRS. white's. 

To six pounds of pears, four pounds of sugar, two 
cofifee cups of water, the juice of two lemons, and the 
rind of one, a handful of whole ginger ; boil all together 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND B^MOrS YOXTR CORNS 



139 



IF YOU SPEAk. OF. 



THE GREAT STRENGTH-GIVER 



Everyone knows 
you refer to . . . 



JOHNSTON'S PLOID BEEF 



for twenty minutes, then put in your pears and boil till 
soft, say about a quarter of an hour, take them out and 
boil your syrup a little longer, then put back your fruit 
and give it a boil ; bottle whilst hot ; add a little cochi- 
neal to give them a nice color. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

MRS. ALLEN. 

Stone the fruit, weigh it, and for every pound take 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar. First dissolve the 
sugar in water in the proportion of a pint of water to a 
pound and a half of sugar, then add the fruit and let it 
boil as fast as possible for half an hour, till it begins to 
jelly. As soon as it thickens, put in pots, cover with 
brandied paper, next the fruit, and then cover closely 
from the air. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

MRS. A. LINCOLN. 

One bushel ripe tomacoes, half a bushel apples, five 
pounds brown sugar, one ounce allspice ; one ounce 
cinnamon, one ounce cloves. 

Let come to a boil. Add the apples peeled and cored. 
Let cook together, watching very carefully, more than 
half a day, then add the sugar. The juice must cook 
out of them, and it takes an entire day to cook properly. 
An hour before taking off, add the spices. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WlLTj REMOm IT 



M 

Peailaclii) 



140 

USE 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2/% Cents Pex' Bax 



PRESERVED ORANGE PEEL. 

LADY MONTROSE. 

Peel the oranges and cut the rinds into narrow shreds, 
boil till tender, change the water three times, squeeze 
the juice of the orange over the sugar, put pound to 
pound of sugar and peel ; boil twenty minutes all to- 
gether. 

CITRON PRESERVED. ^^^^^ ' ' ' 

MRS. AGNtW. 

Cut the citron in thin slices, boil in water with a small 
piece of alum until clear and tender, then rinse in cold 
water. Make a syrup of three-fourths pound of sugar 
to a pound of citron ; boil a piece of ginger in the syrup, 
then pour the citron in and let it boil for a few minutes. 
Put in one lemon to five of the fruit, 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

MRS. HAVARD. 

Stone the cherries, preserving every drop of juice. 
Weigh the fruit, allowing pound for pound of sugar. 
Put a layer of fruit for one of sugar until all is used up, 
pour over the juice and boil gently until the syrup be- 
gins to thicken. The short-stem red cherries, or the 
Morellas, are best for preserves. Sweet cherries will 
not do. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE YOVR CORNS 



141 




« 



PUDDINGS 



Use Swan brand lard in puddings just as you use 
butter — only use two-thirds of the quantity of butter, 
unless the given quantity is very .small, when it will not 
be too rich if full amount is used. 

*^ PLYMOUTH INDIAN-MEAL PUDDING. 

One cupful yellow corn-meal, one cupful molasses, 
one teaspoonful salt, one quart boiling milk, one table- 
spoonful Cottolene, three pints cold milk, one cupful 
cold water, or two eggs, if preferred. 

Mix together the corn-meal, molasses and salt, pour 
on the boiling milk, and add the Cottolene, cold milk 
and water. Bake in a deep, well greased pudding dish, 
holding at least three quarts. Bake very slowly seven 
or eight hours. Do not stir, but cover with a plate if it 
bakes too fast. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. ' 

Two heaping cupfuls pastry flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one egg, three- 
quarters cupful sugar, two tablespoonfuls melted Cotto- 
lene, one cupful milk. Mix the salt and baking powder 
with the flour, beat the egg very light, add the sugar 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT. BEMOVB IT 



Liver 
Troubles 



142 

. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



rOB SALB KVERTWIIERE 



and melted Cottolene ; beat thoroughly, and then add 
the milk, and stir into the flour. Bake in a shallow dish 
about half an hour. Cut into squares, and serve with 
lemon or wine sauce. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Cut in thin slices a baker's five-cent loaf; wash and 
pick one cup currants ; butter each slice of bread ; put a 
layer of this bread in the bottom of a one quart mould or 
basin, then a sprinkling of currants, and so on until all 
is used ; beat four eggs and a half cupful sugar together 
until light, add gradually one pint of milk and a quarter 
of a nutmeg grated ; pour this over the bread, let stand 
fifteen minutes, and bake in a moderate oven thirty 
minutes. Serve cold with cream sauce. 



MARLBOROUGH PUDDING. 

One pint stewed apples, scant half cupful Cotto- 
lene, six eggs, oneteaspoonful vanilla, two cupfuls sugar 
one quart milk. 

Press the apples through a sieve, beat the yolks and 
sugar together, then add the milk and flavoring ; add the 
Cottolene to the apples while hot, then ;"nix with the 
eggs and milk, pour into a baking-dish, and bake in a 
quick oven thirty-five minutes. Beat the egg whites 
until frothy ; add six tablespoon fuls powdered sugar, and 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND HE MOVE YOUR CORNS 



143 



VeailacliG 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2a Cents Pet- Bax 



beat until they will stand alone ; heap them over the top 
of the pudding, and put back in the oven a moment to 
brown. Serve cold with sugar rnd cream. 
This will serve eight persons. 

MOLASSES PUDDING. 

One cupful molasses, one cupful sweet milk, one cup- 
ful stoned raisins, four cupfuls flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, scant half cupful Cottolene. 

Boil or steam two hours. Eat with wine sauce. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One cupful rice, one cupful sugar, two quarts milk, 
flavor to taste. 

Soak the rice four hours, drain and put in a deep pan ; 
add the sugar, milk and flavoring. Bake four hours in 
a very slow oven. Sprinkle the top with sugar, and 
grate nutmeg over. Eat without sauce. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

Three cupfuls flour, three cupfuls milk, three eggs — 
whites and yolks beaten separately and very light, 
three scant teaspoonfuls melted Cottolene, one salt- 
spoonful salt. 

Pour in nine well-greased cups of same size as that 
for measuring, and bake to a fine brown. Eat as soon 
as done, with sauce. 

FAMILY WASHING OUR SPECIALTY 

(Laundry Dept.) Jho MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
689 DOBCHKSTKR STBEET. Telepbone 1807 



Liver 
Troubles 



144 

. . . CURED BY USINQ . . 

McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



VOR SALB EVERYWHEBFl 



CORN-STARCH PUDDING. 

Four tablespoonfuls corns<-arch, one quart milk, four 
eggs — whites and yolks separate, three-quarters cupful 
sugar, nutmeg and cinnamon, one scant tablespoonful 
Cottolene. 

Dissolve the corn-starch' in a little cold milk, and 
havin[^ heated the rest of the milk to boiling, stir this 
in and boil three minutes, stirring all the time. Remove 
from the fire, and while still very hot, put in the Cotto- 
lene. Set away until cold, beat the eggs very light — 
the sugar and seasoning with them, and stir into the 
corn-starch, beating thoroughly to a smooth custard. 
Turn into a greased dish, and bake half i hour. Eat 
cold, with powdered sugar sifted over it. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, four eggs — whites and yolks beaten 
separately, two even cupfuls flour, one teaspoonful salt, 
one pinch of soda. 

Bake in a buttered dish three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve in the pudding-dish as soon as it is drawn from 
the oven, and eat with rich sauce. 

Or you may boil it in a buttered mould or floured bag, 
flouring it very thickly. Boil two hours, taking care 
the boiling does not cease for a moment until the pud- 
ding is done. 



FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

SATISFAC TOKY AND ECdXOMICAIj 

(Laundry Dept ) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

689 DORCHBSTEIR STB££T. Telephoue 1807 



145 

.'*MONTSERRAT""mr:' 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Qrocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One egg, one cupful sugar, two scant tablespoonfuls 
Cottolene, one-half teacupful raisins, two and one-half 
cupfuls flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. 

Steam one hour. Eat with hard sauce. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

One-half pound flour, .scant one-quarter pound Cotto- 
lene, five eggs, one and one-half pounds sugar, one-half 
pound raisins seeded and cut in three pieces each, one- 
quarter pound currants washed and dried, one-half cup- 
ful cream or milk, one-half lemon — juice and rind 
grated. 

Cream the Cottolene and sugar, add the beaten 
yolks, then the milk and lemon, stir in the beaten &gg 
yolks and then the whites ; mix all together. Put a 
thick layer of jam at the bottom of a baking dish, pour 
in the pudding, bake twenty miuutes, cover with mer- 
ingue, brown, and eat cold with sugar and wine. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

One pint flour, t' o teaspoonfuls baking powder, half a 
^•pa^spoonful salt, one cupful milk, two tablespoonfuls 
melted Cottolene, two eggs, half a cupful sugar, one 
pint berries, or one cupful raisins, stoned and halved. 

Mix the baking powder and salt with the flour ; add 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

xo 



146 



mi 

jeanaclie 



USI 



McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



2fi CGutH I*Gr Bax 



the milk and melted Cottolcne. Heat the yolks of t 
eggs, add the sugar, and beat them well into the dout 
Then add the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff ; adc 
l)int of berries rolled in flour, or one cupful raisinsston( 
halved and floured. Turn into a well greased pail 
pudding boiler, and set the pail in a kettle of boili 
water. Boil continuously for two hours, and serve w 
cream sauce. 

ROLY-POLY. 

Half a pound flour, five ounces suet, one-qi rter t< 
spoonful salt, one pint fruit jam or jelly. 

Free the suet from the fibre and skin, and then ch 
it very fine ; add the flour and salt. Mix well, and a 
gradually sufficient cold water to make it stick togeth 
Now roll it out (about one inch in thickness) on a w 
floured baking-board, spread the jam thickly overt 
paste, roll it up, and tie in a well floured cloth, leavi 
plenty of room for it to swell. Put it into a pot of b( 
ing water, and boil it two hours, or it may be steam 
two hours and a half. Serve hot with foamy sauce. 

NEAPOLITAN PUDDING. 

One large cupful fine bread crumbs soaked in ml 
three-quarters cupful sugar, one lemon, juice and grai 
rind, six e'^gs, half a pound stale sponge-cake, hal 
pound macaroons — almond, half a cupful jelly or jam, a 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVl 



WILL BEMOrXl IT 



147 

AFTER THE FAC AND WORRY 
OF A DAY'S WORK 

Johnston's Fluid ^zzi 

. . . SETS YOU UP . . . 



one small tumblerful sherry wine, half a cupful milk 
poured upon the bread crumbs, one tablespoonful 
melted Cottolene. 

Rub the Cottolene and su^ar together ; put the beaten 
yolks in next, then the soaked bread crumbs, the 
lemon juice and rind, and beat to a smooth, light paste 
before adding the whites. Grease your mould very well, 
and put in the bottom a light layer of dry bread crumbs, 
upon this^one of macaroons, laid evenly and close toge- 
ther. Wet this with wine, and cover with a layer of the 
mixture; then with slices of sponge-cake, spread thickly 
with jelly or jam ; next macaroons, wet with wine, more 
custard, sponge-cake and jam, and so on until the mould 
is full, putting a layer of the mixture at the top. Cover 
closely, and steam in the oven three-quarters of an hour; 
then remove the cover to brown the top. Turn out 
carefully into a dish, and pour over it a sauce made of cur- 
rant jelly warmed, and beaten with two tablespoonfuls 
melted butte and a glass of pale sherry. 

' A plain, round mould is best for the pudding, as much 
of its comeliness depends upon the mannerin which the 
cake and macaroons are fitted in. 

It is a pretty and good pudding, and will well repay 
the trifling trouble and care required to manage it pro. 
perly. 

It is also nice boiled in a greased mould. 



I Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 
AND BEMOVE YOUR OOBNS 



148 



^^ SIWINC;,MACH IN E 



MAiRCHEVITE 



^LUBRICANT 



APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One teacupful tapioca, six apples — juicy and well- 
flavored pippins — pared and cored, one quart water, one 
teaspoonful salt. 

Cover the tapioca with three cupfuls lukewarm water, 
and set it in a tolerably warm place to soak for five or 
six hours, stirring now and then. Pack your apples in 
a deep dish, adding a cupful of lukewarm water ; cover 
closely and steam in a moderate oven till soft all through, 
turning them as they cook at bottom. If the dish is more 
than a quarter full of liquid, turn some of it out before 
you pour the soaked tapioca over all. Unless your 
apples are very sweet, fill the centre with sugar, and stick 
a clove in each just before you cover with the tapioca. 
Indeed, T always do this. It softens the hard acid of 
the fruit. Bake, after the tapioca goes in, one hour. 

APPLE BREAD PUDDING. 

MRS. G. L. WHEELOCK. 

Pare, core, and chop one-half dozen sour apples ; dry 
bread in the oven until crisp, then roll ; butter a deep 
dish and place in it a layer of crumbs and apples alter- 
nately, with spice, and one-half cupful of beel suet chop- 
ped fine, pour in one-half pint of sweet milk, and bake till 
nicely browned ; serve with hard sauce. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT, RtlMOrJB XT 



149 




APPLE PUDDING. 

MRo. W. GUTHRIE. 
Five eggs, one pint milk, four tablespoonfuls flour, 
four apples grated ; bake one hour and a quarter. 
Serve witii sweetened cream or pudding sauce. 

APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

MRS. K. 
. One cup sago in a quart of tepid water, with a pinch 
of salt, soaked for one hour, six or eight apples, pared 
and cored, or quartered, and steamed tender, and put in 
the pudding dish ; boil and stir the sago until clear, add- 
ing water to make it thin, and pour it over the apples ; 
this is good hot with butter and sugar, or cold with 
cream and sugar. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

MRS. BARTLETT. 

One brick loaf, wet it with boiling milk, say one 
pint, four eggs, a little salt, and one quart of berries. 
Boil one and one-half hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

MRS. SNIDER. 

One cupful molasses, one cupful suet, three cupfuls 
flour, one cupful sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, two tea- 
i'poonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful ginger, one cupful 
each of currants and raisins ; steam two hours. 

. . SEND FOR OUR PRICES FOR . . 

PAIIIIL,Y 1VASHI?<G 

•(lAundry l>ppt,) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 I>OKCHRBTER BTUBKT. Telephone 1807 



Liver 
Troubles 



150 
. . . CURED BY USING . , . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



ran sat^is kykrvwhere 



CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

MRS. SNIDER. 
One pound raisins chopped fine, one pound currants, 
three-quarters pound bread crumbs, half-pound flour, 
three-quarters pound of beef suet, three eggs," one-half 
pound citron and lemon peel, half a nutmeg, and one 
teaspoonful ground ginger, two teaspoonfuls Eagle bak- 
ing powder, sweet milk enough just to wet all ; tie in a 
cloth, and boil three hours. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in water over night; 

put the tapioca into a quart of boiling milk, and boil 

half an hour ; beat the yolks of four eggs with a cupful 

of sugar, add three tablespoonfuls of prepared cocoanut, 

stir in and boil ten minutes longer ; pour into a pudding 

dish ; beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, 

stir in three tablespoonfuls of sugar, put this over the top, 

and sprinkle cocoanut over the top, and brown for five 

minutes. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Cover three tablespoonfuls tapioca with water, stand 
over night ; add one quart milk, a small piece of butter, 
a ''ttle salt, and boil ; beat the yolks of three eggs with 
a cupful of sugar, and boil the whole to a very thick cus- 
tard ; flavor with vanilla ; when cold, cover with whites 
of eggs beaten. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

OORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE TOVR CORNS 



151 



TAKE YOUll 
PRESCRIPTIONS 

. . . TO . . . 




'S 




AND GET ACCURACY AND DESPATCH 



1978 Notre Dame St. 



MERCHANTS TEL. SOO 



APPLE PUDDING. 

MRS. SNIDER. 

Pare and slice half a dozen cookin^^-apples, grease a 
pudding-dish, put a thick layer of grated bread crumbs, 
add bits of butter, then a layer of apples, with sugar and 
nutmeg, and repeat until the dish is full ; pour over the 
whole a teacupful of cold water, and bake thirty minutes. 

FIG PUDDING. 

E. M. WALKER. 

One-half pound figs, one-quarter pound grated bread, 
two and one-half ounces powdered sugar, three ounces 
butter, two eggs, one teacupful of milk. Chop the figs 
small and mix first with the butter, then all the other 
ingredients by degrees ; butter a mould, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, cover it tight, and boil for three hours. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-half package Lady Charlotte gelatine, pour over it 
a cupful of cold water and add one and one-half cupfuls 
of sugar ; when soft, add one cupful boiling water, juice 
of one lemon and the whites of four well beaten eggs ; 
beat all together until very light, put in glass dish and 
pour over it custard made as follows : one pint milk, 
yolks of four eggs and grated rind of one lemon : boil. 
Splendid. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL BBMOVB IT 



152 



51 



Oaridtte 



PUDDING SAUCES 



In using Cottolene in pudding saucei, handle it just as , 
you do the butter, only do not use the full quantity unless 
it is liked very rich. Use generally the usual proportion, 
two-thirds of the quantity of butter. 

STRAWBERRY OR FRUIT SAUCE. 

One quart strawberries, one cupful sugar. 

Mash the strawberries over which the sugar has been 
poured. Let the fruit stand for two or three hours. 
Ten minutes before serving-time put it into a stew-pan 
and on the fire. It should be heated simply to the 
boiling-point, and will then be ready for use. 

WINE SAUCE. 

One cupful boiling water, one tablespoonful cornstarch, 
one-quarter cupful Cottolene, one cupful powdered sugar, 
one egg, quarter nutmeg grated, half a cupful wine. 

Wet the corn-starch in cold water, and stir into the 
boiling water. Boil ten minutes. Rub the Cottolene 
and sugar to a cream, add the egg, well beaten, and the 
nutmeg. When the corn-starch has cooked ten minutes, 
add the wine, and pour the boiling mixture into the egg 
mixture, and stir rapidly until they are thoroughly 
blended. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND BEMOVE YOUR COKtfS 



15:i 



geaflacne 



USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



Sa Cents Per Bnx 



WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

One pint thick sweet cream, two egg whites, sugar to 
taste. 

Whip the cream, add the egg whites well beaten, 
sweeten and flavor. 

DUCHESS SAUCE. 

Two ounces grated chocolate, half a pint milk, half 
a cupful sugar, two egg yolks. 

Boil the grated chocolate in the milk, beat the egg 

yolks with the sugar, stir thick as honey. Flavor with 

extract of vanilla. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Stir to a cream one cupful of butter, three cupfuls of 
powdered sugar. When light, beat in three-quarters tea- 
cupful wine. Juice of a lemon, two teaspoonfuls nutmeg. 

Beat long and hard until several shades lighter in color 
than at first, and creamy in consistency. Smooth into 
shape with abroad knife dipped in cold water, and stamp 
with a wooden mould, first scalded and then dipped 
in cold water. Set upon the ice until the pudding is 
served. 

MOLASSES SAUCE. 

Two cupfuls molasses and one tablespoonful Cotto- 
lene boiled together. 

Flavor with one-quarter teaspoonful each ginger and 
cinnamon. Serve hot. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wiltj stxMOVM rr 



154 



CEarlotte 



>A\ 



FRUIT PUDDING SAUCE. 

Half a cupful butter, two and one-half cupfuls sugar, 
one dessertspoonful corn-starch wet in a little cold milk, 
one lemon — juice and half the grated peel, one glass of 
wine, one cupful boiling water. 

Cream the butter and sugar well, pour the corn-starch 
into the boiling water, and stir over a clear fire until it 
is well thickened ; put all together in a bowl, and beat 
five minutes before returning to the saucepan. Heat 
once, almost to the boiling point, add the wine, and 
serve. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Onetablespoonful melted Cottolene,twotablespoonfuls 
flour, four tablcspoonfuls sugar, one and one-half pints 
boiling water, half a pint milk. 

Mix these ingredients together over the fire, in a tin- 
lined or porcelain saucepan. Stir the same until it boils 
five minutes and is quite smooth, and use it hot. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Three-quarter cupful butter, one and one-half cupfuls 
sugar, two tablcspoonfuls flour. 

Beat together and pour over it one pint boiling water. 
Stir to a smooth liquid, and add one lemon cut in very- 
thin slices, without peeling. Remove seeds. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE TOUR CORNS 



155 



Only 50c. T TinV^C PWSI*" 

a Bottle . LUDI 3 HAIR RENEWER 



SOFT CUSTARD SAUCE. 

One pint milk, threeeggs,halfa cupful powdered sugar, 
one tcaspoonful vanilla. 

Put the milk on to boil in a farina boiler. Beat the 
eggs and sugar together until light and creamy, then 
stir them into the boiling milk, and stir over the fire 
until they begin to thicken — no longer, or the sauce will 
curdle. Take from the fire, add the vanilla, and turn 
out to cool. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Haifa pound sugar, half a pound butter, one gill water, 
one gill wine, a little nutmeg. ' ' > ' 

Beat to a cream the sugar and butter, grate a very 
little nutmeg with them; a few minutes before the sauce 
is to be sent to the table heat to the boiling point the 
water and wine, stir them quickly into the butter and 
sugar, until a frothy sauce is formed, and then serve the 
sauce at once with any hot pudding. \. , 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

MRS. ANDREWS. ' \; : ' 

One cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, yolks 
of three eggs, one teaspoonful of corn-starch or arrow- 
root, stir the whole until very light, add sufficient boil- 
ing water to make the consistency of thick cream, wine 
or brandy to suit the taste. 



FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

SATISFACTORY AND ECOJTOMIOAL 

(Litundry Dept ) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

r>89 DORCHESTER STREET. Telephone 1807 



Liver 
Troubles 



lf)6 

. . . CURED BY USING . , . 

McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



irOR SALB EVKRTWaEBJB 



PUDDING SAUCE. 

MRS. B. p. HUTCHINSON. 

Two eggs well beaten, one cupful pulverized sugar. 
When mixed pour over one cupful boiling milk, and stir 
rapidly. Flavor as you please. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

One cupful granulated sugar, one cupful water. 

Put the sugar into an iron saucepan, stir with a wooden 
spoon over a quick fire until the sugar melts and turns 
an amber color, then add the water, let boil two min- 
utes and turn out to cool. 



SAUCE FOR APPLE PUDDING. 

M. 

Boil good molasses with a little butter, and serve hot. 

HARD SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS, RICE, ETC. 

M. 

Take one teacupful sugar, one-half teacupful butter, 
stir together until light, flavor with wine or essence of 
lemon. Smooth the top with a knife and grate nutmeg 
over it. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMOVE IT 



157 



OARLOTTE 



ICES 



For " freezing " use plenty of ice chopped fine and 
plenty of salt ; put a layer of ice about three inches deep 
and of salt one incli deep. Leave some of the water 
from the melting ice remain in the can, drain ofif only 
when it floats the ice or gets too near the lid. 

Water ices require a longer time for freezing than ice 
cream. 

If water and sugar are boiled in making ices, do not 
add any flavoring till it is perfectly cold. 

All fruit and flavors should be added to cream when 
it is partly frozen ; this prevents curdling or imperfect 
mixing. 

If you use milk in your cream, it is improved by scald- 
ing, or just coming to a boil. 

FRUIT ICES. 

The ordinary fruit ices are made by mixing equal 
parts of fruit juice and water with plenty of sugar, and 
then freezing them; less lemon juice is required than any 
other kind. Confectioners sometimes add the beaten 
whites of two eggs to each quart of fruit ice when it is 
partly frozen, to increase the quantity, and then finish 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE YOUU COKJfS 



158 

IT HAS BECOME A HOUSEHOLD NAME 

Johnston's Fluid Beef 



Every housekeeper should have some on hand 

the freezing. The finer water ices are made of syrup 
made by boiling sugar until of the consistency of syrup, 
and fruit juice frozen ; the syrup is prepared by boiling 
together four pounds of sugar, one quart of water, and 
the white of an e^g beaten with them, for ten minutes ; 
the syrup is then strained and cooled. For ices, a palat- 
able mixture is made with several fruit juices, and when 
the ice is half frozen, the white of one egg, beaten stiff, 
is added, and the freezing completed. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM, 
o One quart cream, one-half pound granulated sugar 
halfa vanilla bean. 

Boil half the cream with the sugar and bean, then add 
the rest of the cream. Cool and strain. If extract of 
vanilla is used, do not boil it, but put in when ready to 
freeze. Make it strong with flavoring, as it loses strength 

by freezing. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts cream, one pint milk, four eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls arrowroot, two cupfuls strong liquid coffee, 
four cupfuls white sugar. 

Mix the arrowroot in half a cupful of cold milk, and 
add to the well-beaten eggs. Pour over this mixture a 
pint of milk, heated to boiling. Let cool, and add the 
cream. Put into the freezer. Stir thoroughly. When 
partly frozen, add the coffee. Beat well, and freeze. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT, REMOVE IT 



159 

WALTERIH. COTTINGHAM & CO. 

ARTISTS' MATERIALS 

Fine Paints, Brushes, Enamels, Varnishes, and 
Painting Materials of all kinds 

Discount qiven to Convmnts, Schools and Tbachers 

1822 HOTRX: DAME ST. 

Corner St. Helen Street 

^^^^^^"n^i MONTREAL 

J. J. DUFFY & CO. 

. , . Importers and Whoh'salf . . . 

Coffee and Spice Merchants 

Mu nufa^turorsor rr^p^ COOK'S FAVORITE 
. . . BAKING POWDER . . . 

Canada IVIill8-624 and 626 CRAIG STREET 

MONTREAL 



USE- 

CANADIAN EXTRACT OF BEEF GO'S 

Fluid Beef, Capsules, etc. 

5^ 5^ * 

ALSO, SILVERMAN'S 

Flavorings and Sauces 

388 and 390 St. Paul Street. - - MONTREAL 

Telephone 1284- 

HENRY J. DART & CO. 

eai CRAIG STREET, - - MONTREAL 

.... aalholcfiJtlc ^ni^tjistfi .... 

•.' AND DEALERS IN •.' 

Rubber Goods, Rubber Beds, Pillows, 
Air Cushions, Syringes, Water Bottles, etc., etc 



Sick 
leailaclie 



160 

USB- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2fS Cent ft Per Box 



FRUIT ICK CREAM. 

To every pint of fruit-juice, allow a pint of sweet cream. 
The quantity of sugar will depend upon the acidity of the 
fruit used. Apples, peaches, pears, pine-apples, quinces, 
etc., should be pared and grated. Small fruits, such as 
currants, raspberries, or strawberries, should be mashed 
and put through a sieve. After sweetening with pow- 
dered sugar, and stirring thoroughly, let it stand until 
the cream is whipped — two or three minutes. Put toge- 
ther and then whip the mixture for five minutes. Put 
into the freezer, stirring it from the bottom and sides 
two or three times during the freezing process. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts cream, two cupfuls white sugar, juice and 
rind of four lemons. 

The rind of the lemons should be rubbed in lumps of 
sugar and put in the cream ; beat to a froth, and freeze. 

ORANGE AND LEMON ICES. 

The rind of three oranges grated and steeped a few 
moments in a little more than a pint of water ; strain 
one pint of this on a pound of sugar and then add one 
pint of orange or lemon juice ; pour in the freezer, and 
when half frozen add the whites of four eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth. 

FAMILY WASHING OUR SPECIALTY 

(Laundry Dept) Tho MONTREAP^ TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 UORCHKSTKR STREST. Telephone 1807 



161 



Bmrn 



CURRANT ICE. 

One pint of currant juice, one pound of sugar, and one 
pint of water ; put in freezer, and when artly frozen 
add the whites of three eggs well beaten. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Juice of six oranges, grated peel of three, juice of two 
lemons, one pint of sugar, one pint of water, and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

MRS. THOMAS. 

Mash with a potato pounder in an earthen bowl, one 
q jart of strawberries with one pound of sugar, rub it 
through the colander and add one quart of sweet cream, 
and freeze. Very ripe peaches or coddled apples may 
be used instead of strawberries. 

ICING. 

MRS. II. P. STOW ELL. 

One pound pulverized sugar, pour over onetablespoon- 
ful cold water, beat whites of three eggs a little, not to a 
stiff froth ; add to the sugar and water ; put in a deep 
bowl; place in a vessel of boiling water, and heat. It 
will become thin and clear, afterward begin to thicken. 
When it becomes quite thick remove from the fire, and 
stir while it becomes ccdI, till thick enough to spread 
with a knife. This will frost several ordinary sized cakes. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AXn REMOVE YOUU OOJtNS 

I 1 



Liver 
Troubles 



162 

. . . CURED BY USING . . , ' 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



rOS SALE EVFBrwBlSRJK 



SORBETS. 

Make any kind of sherbet, and half freeze it, and you 
have a simple sorbet. Generally, however, wine, rum, 
or some kind of cordial is added when the mixture has 
been frozen. Serve in glasses before or after the roast. 
The sorbet should be frozcii only twelve or fifteen 
minutes. 

The finest kinds of sorbets are those made with the 
juice of several kinds of fruit. Here is a good rule : 

Boil together, for twenty minutes, one pmt of sugar, 
one quart of water, and one pint of chopped pineapple. 
Addto this preparation one gill of lemon juice ..ad half 
a pint of orange juice. When cold, strain and freeze. 



CARAMEL JCE CREAM. 

Put four ounces granulated sugar in an iron frying 
pan, and stir over the fire until the sugar melts, turns 
brown, boils and smokes. Have ready one pint boiling 
milk, turn the burr t sugar into this, stir over the fire one 
minute and stand iiway to cool. When cold, add half a 
pound sugar, one quart cream and one tablespoonfui of 
vanilla sugar or the same of the extract, mix well, and 
freeze. When frozen, remove the dasher, stir into the 
cream one pint of whipped cream, repack, cover, and 
stand for two hours to ripen. 

This will serve twelve persons. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

WLLL REMOVE IT 



168 

/MONTSERRAT " ^r!* 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperato Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



ICK CREAM ICING FOR WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. P. B. AVER, 
."wo cups pulverized sugar boiled to a thick syrup ; 
add three teaspoonfuls vanilla ; when cold, add the 
whites of two eggs well beaten, and flavored with two 
teaspoonfuls of citric acid. 

BISQUE ICE CREAM. 

One quart good cream, half a pound macaroons, 
two lady fingers, half a pound sugar, four kisseii, one, 
teaspoonful vanilla, one teaspoonful caramel. 

Pound the macaroons, kisses and lady fingers (which 
should be stale) through a colander. Put one pint of 
cream on to boil in a farina boiler, add to it the sugar, 
stir until boilin<j hot. Take from the fire, add the re- 
mainder of the cream, and wiien cold turn into the 
freezer, and freeze. When frozeii, add the vanilla, cara- 
mel and the pounded cakes, and (if you use it) 5 table- 
spoonfuls of sherry. Beat the whole until perfectly 
smooth. Drain the water from the tub, add more salt 
and ice, remove the dasher, cover the freezer, and let 
stand three or ifour hours to ripen. 



ROUGH DRY WASHINC-Something New 

BEND FOR } UTUULARS 

iLaundry Dept .^ The MO^^TRLAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
689 DORCHESTER STREET. Telephone 1807 



Ml 



1G4 



Oariotte 



Pi\ 



PIES 

PLAIN PIE-CRUST. 

Three cupfuls sifted flour, one scant cupful dripping, 
one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
two-th-'rds cupful of co/d wdLter. 

Sift the salt and baking powder through the flour, 
then rub the dripping in thoroughly, add the water 
gradually, moistening just enough to make it stick 
together. Mix as little as possible, just enough to get 
it into shape to roll out, handle very lightly. This rule 
makes two pies. 

FAMILY PIE-CRUST. 

One and one-half cupfuls flour before sifting, scant 
one-half cupful of lard, three tablespoon fuls water, pinch 
of salt. 

This is for upper and under crusts of a large, round 
tin or yellow pie-plate. Put the salt in the flour and 
sift it. Take a knife and use in mixing the short- 
ening with the flour. When it is well cut together, 
put in the water very gradually, chopping the mixture, 
and trying to avoid wet streaks. Do not knead it with 
the hands. Sprinkle some flour on the moulding-board ,* 
flour the rolling-pin, take a little more than half of the 



Always Use 



EAGLE BAKING POWDER 



Jf your Orocer has not got it, write for Sample 



165 
IF YOU SPEAK OF. 

THE GREAT STRENGTH-GIVER 



Everyone knows 
vou refer to . . . 



JOHNSTON'S PLUIO BEEF 



crust and gather it into a little rcund pile and roll it out 
from you. If it is not the proper shape, turn it at right 
angles and roll from you again. When it is of the 
required size, cover the sides and bottom of the pie- 
dish, finish the upper crust the same way, and make 
three or four gashes in it for the escape of steam. After 
the pie material is put in and the upper crust put on, 
pinch the edges of the two crusts neatly together. 

' POTATO PASTE. 

Two cupfuls mashed potatoes (hot), one-half cupful 
cream, one scant tablespoonful butter, salt to taste. 

Beat the potatoes until -light, add the butter, cream 
and salt, and beat again ; then add sufficient flour to 
make a soft dough, handle as lightly as possible, roll 
out, and it is ready to use. This is nice for meat or 
potato pies, or apple dumplings. 

TRANSPARENT CRUST. 

One pound florr, ten ounces butter, one egg — the 
yolk only. 

Melt the butter in a vessel set in another of boiling 
water, stirring gently all the while to prevent oiling, 
and when almost cold beat up the Cottolene little by 
little with the egg, which should be previously whipped 
light. When these are thoroughly incorporated, work 
in the flour, roll out twice, sprinkling lightly with flour 

CAP! C BAKING I Is a step ahead of the 
CAIjLE powder old mixtures .... 



Veailac^e 



166 
USE- 



McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



2& Cents Pef Box 



before you fold up, le'c it stind folded five minutes in a 
cold place, and make out for tartlets ox pates. It is not 
suitable for large pies. Bake before you fill them, and 
brush over with a beaten egg while hot. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

One sweet potato, one cupful sugar, one cupful water, 
one tablespoonful shortening, one level teaspoonful salt, 
one lemon. 

Make a good pastry according to any of the recipes 
which have been given, and line pie-plates with it. Peel 
and wash a medium-size sweet potato, grate it on a 
large tin grater, add to it sugar, water, the shortening, 
salt, the rind of one lemon grated, and the juice strained, 
and bake the mixture in the plates lined with pastry. 
One or two eggs beaten with these ingredients will 
make nicer pies. The sweet potato can be baked before 
using it. In this case no water is added, only sufficient 
milk to moisten the potato. If an egg is used with the 
baked potato, it must be beaten with half a cupful of 
milk besides that used to moisten the potato. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
For six dumplings use half the rule for pie crust, and 
six large tart apples. Core and pare the apples. Di- 
vide the paste into six parts, and roll out one piece 
into a shape and size that will cover the apple. Place 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE TOUU CORNS 



167 



LUBY'S ™ ™ ^' HAIR 



an apple on this and fill the centre with sugar. Now 
draw the paste over the apple and press the edges together. 
Put the dumplings in a baking-pan, the rough side 
down, and proceed with the others in the same manner. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven for half an hour. Serve 
hot with a nutmeg or cold sauce. 

STEAMED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

For the paste use one pint flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, half a pint of milk or 
water. 

Mix the dry ingredients together and rub through a 
sieve into the mixing bowl. Cut the butter into this, being 
careful to get it very fine. Now stir in the milk and 
water, and when a smooth paste is formed, sprinkle the 
board and roll the paste out until about half an inch 
thick. Fold up and roll again until about three-quarters 
of an inch thick, then lay it in a well-buttered tin basin 
that will hold about two quarts. Fill the dish with 
pared and quartered rpples (about two quarts). Sprinkle 
over the apples three tablespoonfuls of sugar mixed 
with a teaspoonful of cinii .non. Draw the edges of 
the paste together. Cover the dish with a plate, and 
placing in a steamer, cook for two hours. Turn out on 
a hot dish and serve with nutmeg sauce, which is made 
in this manner : — 



No Baking Powder gained P^-^l^ BIlKIIiri 
popular la vor in so short Lnilrlll DflAlliU 



;: tin u Logio mm 



Eagle 



Liver 
Troubles 



168 

. . . CURED BY USING . . 

McCALE*S 

Butternut Pills 



<'OR SALE KVKRYWHKRR 



Put into a saucepan one cupful of sugar and a heaping 
tablespoonful of flour, and mix well. Pour on this one 
pint of boiling hot water. Boil for ten minutes, then 
add one-third of a nutmeg grated, one-fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of butter. Cook 
for one minute longer, and serve. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

One pint milk, tuo eggs, half a cupful sugar, half a 
grated nutmeg, one cupful grated cocoanut. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together until light, then add 
the milk, nutmeg, and cocoanut. Line two pie dishes 
with plain paste, fill them with this mixture, and bake 
in a quick oven for thirty minutes. 

WHITE POTATO CUSTARD. 

One pound sugar, one pint milk, six eggs, juice and 
rind of two lemons, one scant tablespoonful lard. 

Beat the eggs all together until light, then add the 
sugar and lard ; beat again. Pare the potatoes and grate 
them into the milk, then add these to the eggs and sugar, 
add the juice and rind of the lemons, and it is ready for 
use. 

' GRANDMOTHER'S LEMON CUSTARD. 

One pound powdered sugar, six egg yolks, four Qgg 
whites, three ounces butter, juice and rind of three lemons. 



EiGLE \\m Fora 



G-ained popularity 



on merit alon« 

ASK TOUR OROCER lOR IT 



169 



. 7Vv 2^^^' N& MACHINE 

MA^RCHEVITE 



^ LUBRICANT 



Beat the yolks and sugar to a cream, then add the 
whites unbeaten, one at a time, and beat the whole until 
very light. Beat the butter to a cream, and add the 
other mixture gradually to it ; now stand the bowl in a 
basin of boiling water over the fire, and stir continually 
until the mixture thickens, take from the fire and stand 
away to cool. Line two deep pie dishes with good plain 
paste, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 
When done, take out and fill with the lemon mixture. 
Add gradually six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar to 
the whites of six eggs, beating all the while ; after you 
have added all the sugar, beat until very stiff and glossy. 
Put this meringue over the top of the pie, and stand it 
in the oven until a golden brown. 

CHOCOLATE TARTS. 

Foureggs, — whites and yolks, half a cake chocolate 
grated, one tablespoonful cornstarch dissolved in water « 

three tablespoonfuls milk, four tablespoonfuls white 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls vanilla, one saltspoonful salt, 
half a teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful butter, 
melted. 

Rub the chocolate smooth in the milk and heat to 
boiling over the fire, then stir in the corn-starch. Stir 
five minutes until well thickened, remove from the fire, 
and pour into a bowl. Beat all the yolks and the whites 
of two eggs well with the sugar, and when the chocolate 

»o puffing necessary when once ... 

.EAGLE BAKING POWDER is used 



170 



Give THE 
CHILDREN 



JOHNSTON'S FLUID BEEF 

jEADING maketh a full boy, 
Conference a ready boy, 
^A^riting an exact boy, 
And JOHNSTON'S FLUID BEEF a strong boy. 



R' 



mixture is almost cold, put all together with the flavor- 
ing, and stir until light. Bake in open shells of pastry. 
^Vhen done, cover with a meringue made of the whites of 
two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar flavored with 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Eat cold. 
These are nice for tea, baked in patty pans, 

MOCK MINCE PIES. 

Six tablespoonfuls of rolled crackers, two cupfuls of 
warm water, one cupful of chopped raisins, one cupful 
of whole raisins, half a cupful of vinei^ar, half a cupful 
of melted butter, one cupful of yellow sugar, one cupful 
of molasses, one tablespoonful cinnamon, cloves and 
nutmeji. 



'o' 



CENTENNIAL APPLE PIE. 

Peel one dozen and a half of good apples, take out the 
cores, cut them small, put into a stew pan that will just 
hold them with a little water, a little cinnamon, two 
cloves, the rind of a lemon ; stew over a slow fire until 
quite soft, then sweeten them, pass it through a hair 
sieve, add the yolks of four eggs and one white, quarter 
of a pound of good butter, half a nutmeg, the peel of a 
lemon grated, and the juice of one lemon ; beat all well 
together, line the inside of the pie dish with good puff 
paste, put in the pie, and bake half an hour. 



MANGLED WORK BY THE POUND 

SEND FOB PABTICITLABB 

(Laundry i)ept.> The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 UORCHKSTEB STKKBT. Telephone 1807 



D. Morrice, Sons & Co. 

MONTREAL AND TORONTO 

« * ^ 
MANUFACTURERS' AQENTS 
AND GENERAL MERCHANTS ' 

• .' . ^ ^ ^ 

The Dominion Cotton Mills Company 

... MONTREAI 

Mills at ^^> 

Hochelaera< Coaticooke, Chambly, Brantfopd, 
Kingston, Halifax, Moncton, Windsop, N. S., 
Magos. (Ppint Wopks) 

Grey Cottons, Bleached Shirtings, Bleached and Grey 
Sheetings, Cotton Bags, Drills, Ducks, Yarns, Twines, 
Wicks, Prints, Regattas, Printed Ducks, Cretonnes, 
Sleeve Linings, Printed Flannelettes, Shoe Drills, etc. 

^ t« -^ 

The Canadian Colored Cotton Mills Co., Ltd. 

... MONTRRAI . 

Mills at ^ "Ua^.^ 

Milltown, Cornwall, Hamilton. Meppitton« 
Dundas. also A. Gibson & Sons, Mapysville. 
N.B., and Hamilton Cotton Co., Hamilton . . 

Shirtings, Ginghams, Oxfords, Flannelettes, Tickings, 
Awnings, Sheetings, Yarns, Cottonades, etc 

. . . ALSO . . . 

Tweeds— Fine, Medium and Coarse ; Etoffes, Blankets. Horse 
Blanivets, Saddle-felt, Glove Liningp. . . . . . 

Flannels— Grey and Fancy, in all Wool and Union ; Ladies' Dress 
Flannels. _ 

Knitted Underwear — Socks and Hosiery, in Men's, Ladies' and 
Children's. .......... 

Cardigan Jackets — Mitts and Gloves 

SERGES, YARNS, CARPET RUCS -'—r/---r 

The Wholesale Trade only Supplied^ 



leailaclie 



172 

USE —^ 



McCALE*8 

Butterrut Pills 



2 a Centf* T'gt- Box 



SQUASH VIE. 

One crust, one small cupful of dry maple sugar dis- 
solved in a little water, two cupfuls of strained squash 
stirred in the suj^ar, add four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
allspice, two cupfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of butter, 
and two of ginger added last. This makes two pies. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One quart of strained pumpkins, two quarts rich m'lk, 
one teaspoonful of salt and two of ginger cooked with 
the pumpkins, six well beaten eggs, and one and one-half 
teacupfuls of sugar. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon rind and juice, one cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of water, one tablcspoonful of corn-starch cooked in 
water till thick, three eggs, — two of whites saved for 
frosting, half a cupful of sugar. 

MINCE MEAT. > 

V MRS. HIGGINS. ^ 

Six pounds of beef and six pounds of apples chopped 
fine, four pounds of sugar, two of citron, three of raisins, 
three of currants, one of suet, two quarts of boiled cider, 
one-half cupful of salt, two nutmegs, two tablespoonfuls 
of ground cloves, two of allspice, two of cinnamon ; when 
used, enough sweet cider should be added to make the 
mixture quite moist. 



use 



EAGLE BAKING POWDER 

If vou wish liglit, flaky biscuits and delicious pastry. 
Send for Sample Tin Free 



173 

^^^^J AMTcrnn i t lime fruit 



MONTSERRAT 



o^* ifiuii I ocnnA I ..JUICE 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To bo had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



COCUANUT PIE. 
One-half pound giattd cocoanut, three-tiuarters of a 
pountl of white siii^ar, six ounces of butter, five ejJtgs (the 
whites only), two tablespoonfuls rose water, one tea- 
.spoonful nutmeg. Cream the butter and sugar, beat till 
very light, and add the rose water, then acid the cocoa- 
nut with as little and light beating as possible, finally 
whip in the stiffened whites of the eggs with a few skil- 
ful strokes, and bake at once in open shells. Eat cold, 
with powdered sugar sifted over them. These are very 
pretty and delightful pies. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, one cupful of sugar, half a cupful water, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful butter; line your pie plate with 
a nice crust, pour in the above, bake in a quick oven. 

CREAM PIE. 

Boil nearly one pint of new milk, take two small 
tablespoonfuls of corn-starch beaten with a little milk, 
to this add two eggs ; when the milk has boiled, stir this 
in slowly with one scant teacupful of sugar and one-half 
cupful of butter, two teaspoonfuls of lemon. Cakes: 
Three eggs, one cup of white sugar, one and one-half of 
flour, one teaspoonful of Eagle baking powder, mix it in 
flour, three tablespoonfuls of cold water, bake in two pie- 
pans in a quick oven, split the cake while hot, and spread 
in the cream. 



Has the best keep- 
ing qualities . . , 




Liver 
Troubles 



174 
. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



FOn SALE KVKR Y WHKR K 



ORANGE TART. 

Squeeze two oranges and boil the rind tender, add 

half a teacupful of sugar and the juice and pulp of the 

fruit, an ounce of butter ; beat to a paste, line a shallow 

dish with light pufif paste, and lay the paste of orange in it. 

CRANI3ERRY PIE. 

Take cranberries, pick and wash them in several 
waters, and put them in a dish with the juice of half a 
lemon, one-quarter pound of moist sugar or pounded loaf 
sugar to a quart of cranberries ; cover it with puff paste 
or short crust, and bake it three-quarters otan hour. If 
short crust is used, draw it from the oven five minutes 
before it is done, and ice it ; return it to the oven, and 
send it to the table cold. 

CREAM PIE. 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
cream tartar and one-half teaspoon soda, five eggs 
beaten separately, grated rind of lemon. Cream : Set 
in hot water one-half pint of milk ; when scalding hot 
add one-half cup sugar, a little salt and one egg beaten 
together ; stir until thick, and when cool add table- 
spoon vanilla ; put between crusts. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wilTj bemovm it 



175 



OARtOtTE 



CUSTARDS and CREAMS 

m 

RICH CUSTARD. 

One quart of cream, the yolks of six eggs, six ounces 
of powdered white sugar, a small pinch of salt, two 
tiblespoonfuls of brandy, one tablespoonful of peach 
water, half a tablespoonful of lemon brandy, an ounce 
of blanched almonds pounded to a paste ; mix the 
cream with the sugar, and the yolks of the eggs well 
beaten ; scald them together in a tin pail in boiling 
water, stirring all the time until sufficiently thick ; when 
cold, add the other ingredients, and pour into custard 
cups. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

To half a cup of rice add one quart of milk and a 
little salt ; steam one hour, or until quite soft ; beat the 
yolks of four eggs with four tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, add this just before taking off the rice, stir in 
thoroughly, but do not let it boil any more ; flavor with 
vanilla. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
with sugar ; after putting the mixture into the pudding 
dish in which you serve it, put the whites over it, and 
let it slightly brown in the oven. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use MeCALE'S 

CORN SAL.VE 



176 

USE- 



SJCf I MCCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



Heanacte 



2a Cents Per Box 



BOILED CUSTARD. ; 

• MRS. R. M. I'ICKER:NG. ■■ ' 

One quart milk, eight eggs, one-half pound of sugar; 
beat to a good froth the eggs ;;.nd sugar. Put the .nilk 
in a tin pail, and set it in boiling water, pour in the eggs 
and sugar, and stir it until it thickens. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

MRS. E. E. MARCV. . 

One-half package gelatine, 3ne pint of water, soak 
twenty minutes, add tvvocupfuls ofsugar, set on the stove 
to come to a boil ; when nearly cold, add the whites of 
four eggs beaten stiff, the juice and rind of two lemons, 
and pour into a mould, turn over the form. Make a 
custard of the yolks of four egcrs, a quart of milk, and a 
small tablespoonful of corn-«tarch ; sweeten to taste. 

APPLE FLOAT. . 

MRS. O. L. PARKER. 

To one quart of apples partially stewed and well 
mashed, put *^he whites of th'ee eggs well beaten, and '■■ 
four tablespoonfuls of loaf sugar ; beat them together for 
firteen minutes, and eat with rich t.nlk and nutmeg. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

OORN SALVE 



Wl.LX, REMOVIt IT 



IF YOU KNOW ANYONE 
TROUBLED WITH . . . 



177 

DYSPEPSIA 



...ADVISE THEM TO TAKE... 

Johnston's Fluid Qeef 

WHIPPED CREAM. 
Mix one pint of cream with nine tablespoonfuls of 
fine sugar and one gill of wine in a large bowl ; whip 
these with the cream dasher, and a^; the froth rises, skim 
into the dish in which it is to be served. Fill the dish 
full to the top, and ornament with kisses or macaroons. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Boil one ounce of Lady Charlotte gelatine in one 
pint of new milk until dissolved ; add four eggs well 
beaten and half a pound of sugar, stir it over the fire until 
the eggs thicken, take it off the fire, and add a full wine 
glassof peach water, and when cool pour it into moulds ; 
serve with cream. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Nearly a box of Lady Charlotte gelatine soaked 
over night in a cupful of wine ; melt it over the fire with 
the sugar ; when it is warm, put in a quart of cream or 
new milk, and strain it into moulds. If the wine is too 
hot it will curdle the milk. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Make according to above rule, adding one gill of 
orange juice and the grr.ted rind of one orange which 
has been previously soaked in the orange juice while 
the gelatine is dissolving over the boiling water, and 
the beaten yolks of two eggs when you take off, and 
quite hot. 

FAMILY WASHING OUR SPECIALTY 

(Laundry Dept.) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
585) WOKCHKSTKR STREKT. Telephone 18i-< 

12 



178 



OARIOTTE 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 



MRS. BENDELARI. 



One teacupful of tapioca soaked over night in a pint 
of milk ; in the morning add one quart more, and when 
boiled till the tapioca is clear, add the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, with one cupful of sugar. Beat the 
whites to a foam. Sweeten and flavor the whole with 
vanilla. This pudding is better eaten cold. 



COFFEE CREAM. 

Soak half an ounce of Lady Charlotte gelatine in a 
little cold water half an hour ; then place it over boiling 
water, and add one gill of strong coffee and one gill of 
sugar ; when the gelatine is well dissolved, take from the 
fire, stir in three gills of cold cream and strain into your 
mould. Be sure that <his has been previously wet with 
cold water. 

APPLE CREAM. 

I 

Mrs. MANN. 

One cupful thick cream, one cupful sugar, beat till 
very smooth ; then beat the whites of two eggs, and add ; 
stew apples in water till soft, take them from the water 
with a fork ; steam them if you prefer. Pour the cream 
over the apples when cold. 



EASF AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE rOUU CORJfS 



179 

^^^tJAMTornn i nr lime fruit 



MONTSERRAT 



<!"' mun I ocnnA i . juicg 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate I/rinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 

Bread, Rolls and Biscuits 

YEAST. 

MRS. E. S. CHEESEBROUGH. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of hops in a muslin bag and 
boil them in three quarts of water for a few minutes ; 
have ready a quart of hot mashed potatoes, put in one 
cupful of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one of salt; pour 
over the mixture the boiling hop water, strain through a 
colander,' put a pint or less of fresh baker's yeast, or 
two cakes of yeast in while it is warm, and set it in a 
warm place to rise. This yeast will keep three or four 
weeks, if set in a cool place. In making it from time to 
time, use a bowl of the same to raise the fresh with. 

YEAST. 

MRS. MARY LUDLAM. 

Six good potatoes grated raw, a little hop tea, one 
quart of boiling water, three-fourths cupful of brown 
sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt ; when cool, add yeast 
to rise ; keep covered and in a cool place. 

YEAST FOR BREAD. 

MISS L. STAGMAN. 
Grate ten or twelve good sized raw potatoes in a 



iHItasle Bsldng Powder il^ 



Liver 
Troubles 



m 

. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



i'Oif SALE KVir.lYWllKRK 



colander and let the water drip off them, and then add 
three parts of a saucerful of flour to the potatoes, and 
three parts of a cupful of sugar ; then boil a good pinch 
of hops twenty minutes, and throw over all ; when luke- 
warm, add a cupful of yeast, and when it rises add a 
tablespoonful of salt. This will keep three weeks. 

SUPERIOR BREAD. 

MRS. D. C. NORTON. 

Scald one quart of sour milk ; when cool enough, set 

your sponge with the whey ; take about three quarts of 

flour, make a hole in the centre, put in the whey about 

a good teaspoonful of salt, one teacupful of good hop 

yeast (home made is best), and stir quite stiff with a 

spoon ; wrap in a thick cloth so as to keep as warm as 

possible in cold weather, in summer it is not necessary. 

In the morning knead well, adding flour until stiff 

enough, and keep warm until light, then set it in pans 

to rise ; no salcratus is needed. Bread made in this way 

will never fail to be good if good flour and yeast are 

used. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. V. E. STEARNS. 
One and one-half cupfuls of Graham flour, two cupfuls 
of corn meal, one-half cupful of mok sses, one pint of 
sweet milk, and half a teaspoonful of t-oda ; sieam three 
hours. 



Is endorsed by . . . 
Chemical Authorities. 



[agle mi 




181 



LUBYS HAIR 



GROWER arid 
RESTORER . . 



YEAST THAT WILL NOT SOUR. 

MRS. I. a ADAMS. 

Boil two ounces of hops in two quarts of water ; put 
one cupful of brown sugar in a jar, boil and strain the 
hops and pour into the jar. Add one cupful of flour 
stirred smooth, "let it stand in a warm kitchen till it fer- 
ments. Add six potatoes boiled and mashed, and one 
cupful of salt. 

STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

MRS. lANE CONGER. 

Take three cupfuls of meal and one of flour, scald 
two cupfuls of meal with boiling water, add the other 
cupful of meal and flour, two cupfuls of sour milk, one 
cupful molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, and a little 
salt. Steam three hours. 

BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. \VM. BLAIR. 

Take part of the sponge that has been prepared for 
your white bread, warm water can be added, mix it 
with Graham flour (not too stiff"). 

For Brown Biscuit. — Take this Graham dough, as 
prepared for bread, working in a little butter. Butter 
the size of an egg; is sufficient for two dozen biscuits. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WII.Tj JtEMOVJS IT 



lieailaclie 



182 

USE- 



McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



^.5 Cc-tits l^ar liox 



CORN BREAD. 

^MRS. WM. H. LOW. ^ 

Two tablespoon fuls of sugar, *one tablespoonful 

butter, two eggs; stir all together, add one 'cupful of 

sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of Eagle baking powder, 

and three-fourths of a cupful corn meal, flour to make it 

quite stiff. 

INDIAN BREAD. 

MRS. A. T. HALL. 

One pint of meal, one pint of flour, one pint of milk, 
one teacupful of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, one- 
half teaspoonful cream tartar ; steam two hours and 
bake half an hour. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

MRS. J. B. IIOBHS. 

F"or one loaf, take two cupfuls of white bread sponge, 
to which add two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, and 
Graham flour to make a stiff batter ; let it rise, after 
which add Graham flour sufficient to knead, but not 
very stiff ; then put in the pan to rise and bake. 

RYE BISCUIT. 

MRS. LAMKIN. 

Two cupfuls of rye meal, one and one-half cupfuls flour, 
one-third cupful m.olasses, one egg, a little salt, two cup- 
fuls sour milk, two even teaspoonfuls saleratus. 

The Leaveniug Power of . . . 

EAGLE BAKING POWDER is undoubted 



183 
mBTAmusHED IN laea 



Joseph luttrell & Co. 

MANUFACTURING 

rs and Biscuit 






680 to 686 Albert Street, St. Cunegonde 

MONTREAL 



•WI3:OX-.ESAXiE OInTLY 



OUR GENERAL TRADE COMPRISES 

Gum Drops, Lozenges, Butter Cups, Satinettes, Cream 
Bon Bons, Chocolates, Hand-made Creams, 
Cross Goods and Boiled Candies 

WHILST WE MAKE AS SPECIALTIES 

Cough Drops, Pepsin and Peppermint, and Candled 
Lemon, Orange and Citron Peel 

^ ^ ^ 



o 



UR Biscuit Factory turns out a variety of over a luindred kinds, 
made by the most improved machinery to date, thus enabling us 
to combine efficiency with chenpness in their production. Pieing 
direct importeis from phaces of growili of the raw material, we are 
in a position to supply the manufactured article of the purest 
fjuality. Consumers can, therefore, rely on getting our goods pure 
and free from adulteration 



W£ KEEP IN STOCK FOR CONFECTIONERS : 

Cake Ornaments, Shelled Nuts, Christmas 
Crackers, Powdered Sugar, Maple Sugar, etc. 



:— ^..^...-^.Lk. 



184 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USINO . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALE EVERY WUERK 



VIENNA BREAD. 

lUI.IKT CORSON. 

Four pounds flour, three pints milk and water, lial^ 
an ounce of salt, one and three-quarter ounces fresh 
compressed yeast. These proportions are for an ordi- 
nary family. 

The process of making is as follows : Place the 
flour in the bread bowl, and in it put the milk, water and 
salt ; mix with the liquid enough of the flour to make 
a very thin batter ; next rub the yeast to powder 
between the hands, and mix it into the batter ; cover 
the bowl closely, and let it stand for three-quarters of 
an hour. At the end of that time mix in the rest of 
the flour smoothly, and let the dough thus made stand 
again closely covered for two hours and a half, until it 
is light and elastic ; then cut it into pound pieces, and 
each pound into twelve equal parts ; flatten these small 
pieces of dough in squares three-quarters of an inch 
thick, fold their corners to the centre, pinch them down 
to hold them, and turn the litde rolls thus made over on 
a board covered with cloth ; let them stand for about 
ten minutes, turn them up again on a baking sheet, and 
put them into a hot oven, to bake quickly for about fif- 
teen minutes ; when half-done brush them with milk, 
return them to the oven and finish baking them. This 



Use 
the 



Eagle Baking Powder 



Best 

i<>ct' Sample by writing 3V4 and 30G St. Paul Street, Montruil 



185 

No Kitchen is thoroughly Equipped 

... WITHOUT A SUPPLY OF . . . 

Johnston's Fluid Beef 



process seems to impK- a little trouble to the bread- 
maker, but the delicious quality of the bread thus pro- 
duced well repays the extra pains taken in makiufr it ; 
and a little practice will enable any person to accom- 
plish the result successfully always. 

POTATO l^READ. 

iMlSS I'ARI.OA. 

One quart boilini; water, three large jjotatoes, one- 
third cup yeast, or one-third cake compressed yeast, one 
tablespoonful salt, about three quarts and one pint of 
flour. 

This will niakc four large or six medium-sized loaves. 
Cover the potatoes with boiling water. Cook them for 
half an hour; then drain and mash them. Pour the 
boiling water on them. Let this stand until it is blood- 
warm, then add th^ yeast and three quarts of flour, 
beating it in with a spoon. Cover the bowl with a cloth, 
and then with a board or tin cover, and let it rise over 
night — nine or ten hours. 

In the morning beat in the salt and half of the 
remaining flour. Use the remainder of the flour for 
kneading the bread on the board. Knead for twenty 
minutes or half an hour. Put the dough back into the 
bowl, and cover it ; let it rise to double its size, shape 

""^ EAGLE BAKING POWDER 

For your Cakes, Rolls and Biscuits. 



18fi 



MA^RCHEVITE 



into loaves, and let them rise to double their original 
size. Bake for one hour in a moderately hot oven- 

The addition of a tablespoonful of sugar, and two or 
three ot Cottolene or butter, improves tiie bread for 
some tastes. If these be used, add them with the salt 
when the bread is kneaded. 

TO MAKE STALK BREAD OR CAKE ERESH. 

MRS. M. G. .\DAMS. 
Plunge the loaf one instant in cold water, lay it ui)on 
a tin in the oven ten or fifteen minutes. Cake and rolls 
may be thus made almost as nice as if just baked, but 
must be eaten immediately. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS. 

MRS. BRODIE. 
One quart of Graham flour, three and one-half heap- 
ing teaspoon fuls of I'^agle baking powder, one teaspoon- 
ful of .salt, one of butter. Make into soft dough with 
milk. 

BUNS. 

Two coffee cupfuls bread dough, two eggs, one cupful 
sugar, spices, a few currants. Mould like rusk, and let 
them rise before baking. 



Eagle Baking Powder 



Use 

Only 

HAGLE BAKlXa POWnBlt CO.,:i04 (uul 3»li St. Paul St., Montt'eal 



187 



Only 60c. T f TDV^C PARISIAN 
a Bottle . LUDl 3 HAIR RENEWER 



RUSKS. 

MRS. F. I,. GILLETTE. 

Tvvocupfuls of raised dough, one cupful of sugar, one- 
third cupful of butter, two well beaten eggs, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, flour. 

Mix all together thoroughly with the hands, adding 
sufficient flour to make it stiff enough to mould. Set it 
to rise ; when light, make into biscuits, and place on 
greased tins. Pierce the tops with a fork, then glaze 
them with sugar and milk. Bake in a moderate oven. 
St ne add dried currants and a teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg while mixing. 

CREAM BISCUITS. 

MRS. A. M. GIBRS. 

Three heaping tablespoonfuls of sour cream ; put in a 
bowl or vessel containing a quart, and fill two-thirds full 
of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, a little salt ; pour the cream in the flour, 
mix soft, and bake in a quick oven. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Make good biscuit crust ; bake in two tins of same 
shape and size ; mix berries with plenty of sugar, opea 
the shortcake, butter well, and place berries in layers, 
alternated with the crust ; have the top layer of berries, 
and over all put Charlotte russe or whipped cream. 

[agle Bafts Powier r.*;^rS 

Write for Sample to E. It. P. Co., 394 and 30<i St. Paul St., Moutreat 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




V 




/. 












y. 



C/a 



& 



1.0 



I.I 






IM 

2.2 



11.25 



2.0 



1.8 



U 1111.6 




Photographic 

Sdences 
Corporation 



33 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 14580 

(716) '^72-4503 






:i>^ 



iV 





^\ 



<^, ^\ '#k\ 










&~ 



SiGH 

Jeadaclie 



18fi 

USE- 



McCALE*S 

Butternut Pills 



2*5 Cents Per Bax 



ORANGE SHORTCAKE. 

M. 



Make a nice shortcake ; spread in layers of sliced 
anges with suga 
sweetened cream. 



oranges with sugar and a little cream. To be eaten with 



APPLE shortcakp:. 

M. 

Season apple sauce with butter, sugar, etc. ; make a 
nice shortcake, open and butter it and put the apple 
sauce in layers. Serve with sweetened cream. 

HUCKLEBERRY BISCUIT. 

JULIET CORSON. 

One quart flour, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful 
soda, two and one-halt ounces butter, one pint huckle- 
berries, about one pint sour milk. 

Sift the flour with one teaspoonful each of salt and 
bicarbonate of soda, and then with the hands rub in 
two tablespoonfuls of butter ; next mix in one pint of 
sound fresh huckleberries which have been washed and 
dried, taking care no'i to break the berries ; stir in, with- 
out breaking the berries, enough sour milk to make a 
dough as soft as for biscuit, about a pint of sour milk 
will be required ; then little cakes should be formed at 
once with the hands dipped in flour, and the cakes baked 



FOR PASTRY 

Nothing equals 



Eagle Bating Poiar 



Liver 
Troubles 



109 

. . . CURED BY USING . , 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



ton SALE EVKRTWHERK 



about twenty minutess in a hoi oven, or the dough may 
be baked in a sheet about two inches thick. The addi- 
tion of two eggs, well beaten, and six ounces of sugar, 
makes sweet hi;ckleberry biscuit or tea-cakes. 

When there is no sour milk at hand, use sweet milk 
and prepared flour, or baking powder, or cream of tartar 
and soda with plain flour. " 

HOT CROSS liUNS. 

MRS. V. L. GILLETTE. 

Three cupfuls of milk, one scant cupful of sugar, one- 
third cupful of butter, one cupful tepid water, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, half a nutmeg grated, flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, a small cupful of yeast, or one-third 
of a cake of compressed yeast. 

Dissolve the yeast in the tepid water, add it to the 
milk which has been scalded and cooled, then add the 
butter, sugar, salt, and nutmeg, with sufficient flour to 
make quite a stiff batter. Cover, set in a -.'arm place, 
and when thoroughly light (about five hours) add half 
a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a spoonful of water. 
Then add enough flcur to roll out like biscuit. Rollout 
half an inch thick, cut with a biscuit-cutter and lay on 
greased tins, cover and let stand until light again. Make 
a deep cross on the top of each bun .vith a knife, place 
in the oven, and bake a light-brown from twenty to 

. . SEND FOR OUR PRICES FOR . . 

(Laundry IX pU Tho MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

58!) I>ORCHESTGK 8TKKKT. Tcleiihuiio 18(>7 



!!--■ 



geanaciie 



100 

USE- 



McCALE*S 

Butternut Pills 



i 



2/% Cents P - Bnx 



twenty-five minutes. When done, and while hot, brush 
over the tops with a mixture of one beaten white of egg 
and one tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 

QUICK BUCKWHEA r CAKES. 
One quart of buckwheat flour, half a teacupful of 
cornmeal or wheat flour, a little salt, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of syrup. Wet these with cold or warm water to a 
thin batter, and add, lastly, four good tablespoonfuls of 
Eagle baking powder. 

BUNS. 

MRS. MILLER. 

Set, in the evening, a pint of milk, butter the size of 
an egg, three tablespoonfuls of yeast, and flour enough 
to make a thick batter. Warm the milk and butter to- 
gether, add the yeast and flour. In the morning add 
two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and enough flour 
to roll in the hand, fio^ on the board. After mixing, let 
it stand till quite light, then make into buns, and let 
them stand four hours in the pans before baking. Bake 
about a quarter of an hour. 

SALLY LUNN. 

MRS. CARSON. 

Four teacupfuls flour, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one 
tablespoonful of lard, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of 
Eagle baking powder ; mix with half milk and water to 
a thin batter ; bake in a quick oven. 



I Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 
AND MEMOVB! TOUR COItlfS 



191 



umm 



GRAHAM PUFFS. 

MRS. O. S. WHEELOCK. 
One pint of Graham flour, one egg, one teaspoonful 
salt, one tablcspoonful Kagle baking powder ; wet with 
milk or water. 

MUFFINS. 

MRS. \V. H. LOW. 

One tablespoonful of butter, two tablcspoonfuls sugar, 
twoeggs ; stir all together ; add one cupful of sweet milk 
three ttasooonfuls of Eagle baking powder, flour to make 
a stiff batter. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven, 

GEMS FOR BREAKFAST. 

MRS, CARSON. 
One and one-half cupfuls of sweet milk, two cupfuls 
of flour, one cupful of corn meal, two eggs, butter the s; ze 
of an egg, one tablespoonful of Eagle baking powder 
mixed dry in the flour ; bake in small tins, and cook one- 
quarter of an hour in a quick oven. 

BANNOCKS. 

M. 
One pint cornmeal, pour on it boiling water to thor- 
oughly wet it. Let it stand a few minutes, add salt, 
one egg and a little sweet cream, or a tablespoonful 
melted butter. Make into ballfc, and fry in hot lard. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMOVE IT 



Liver 
Troubles 



192 

. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALE KVT.RTWIJICRT) 



JOHNNIE CAKE. . 

MRS. H. BAIRD. 

One pint of corn meal, one teacup of flour, two eggs, 
one pint of sweet milk, one tablespoon of molasses, one 
tablespoon of melted butter, a little salt, one teaspoon 
of soda, one teaspoon of cream of tartar ; bake in square 
tins. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

M. 

One teacup of sweet milk, one tablespoon of sweet 
light dough dissolved in milk, three eggs beaten separ- 
ately, one teaspoon of salt, one and one-half teacups of 
flloui , one tablespoon of sugar, and the grateci ;je*-l of a 
lemon, peeled apples sliced without the core ; dtup into 
hot lard with a piece of apple in each one ; sprinkle 
with powdered or spiced sugar. Let them stand after 
making and they will be lighter. 0*^0 j. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, pour on it a pint 
of cold water, let it stand half a day, then pour it through 
a sieve and boil well one-quarter of an hour, stirring all 
the time; season according to taste. The coarse meal 
to be rejected. Good for invalids or children. 



USE oN'Y EAGLE BAKING POWDER 

For Pastry and Biscuits. 



193 
For ENRICHING SOUPS and GRAVIES 

Johnston's Fluid B<^<^f 

. . . IS . . . 

UNEQUALLED for F LAVOR and STBENHTH 

CAKES 



Always flavor a cake. 

Sweet milk makes a cake which cuts like pound cake. 
Sour milk makes spongy-like cake. Do not use both in 
the same cake. 

For rich cakes use powdered sugar. For plain cakes 
use granulated sugar. For fine cakes, beat the yolks and 
whites of eggs separately. For plain cakes, beat both 
together thoroughly. Always sift your flour. Mix all 
soda and chemicals with the flour. Put it twice through 
the sieve to be well mixed. 

DIXIE CAKE. 

One-quarter pound butter, one pound flour, two eggs, 
three-quarters pound sugar, one level teaspoonful mixed 
cloves, cinnamon and allspice powdered, one wine-glass- 
ful brandy, rose water. 

Chop the butter into the flour ; beat the eggs and 
sugar to a cream, stir these ingredients with the spices, 
add the brandy and sufficient rose water to make a soft 
cake dough, put the cake mixture into small buttered 
cake-pans, and bake the cakes in a moderate oven until 
a broom straw can be thrust into them and withdrawn 
clean and dr)/. 



Although not tnuclj advertised .... 

The EAGLE BAKING POWDER 

. . . . Is well and favorably known 
13 






194 
USE — 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



SS Cents T>cr Jinx 



CREAM WAFERS. 

Three ounces cold lard, five eggs, one-quarter pound 
sifted flour, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 

Warm the lard without oiling it, work into it the eggs, 
one at a time, then add the sifted flour and ground 
cinnamon, mixing all these ingr>jdients to a smooth paste. 
Heat a wafer-iron, put in a spoonful of paste, close the 
iron, bake the wafer, and trim off its edges before open- 
ng the iron, then open the iron, and quickly roll the 
wafer in the form of a cone ; when all the wafers are 
cooked, fill them with whipped cream, arrange them on 
a napkin, and serve them. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 

Four eggs, the weight of the eggs in sugar, half their 
weight in flour, one-quarter teaspoonful soda, and half a 
teaspoonful cream of tartar sifted well with flour. 

Icing. — Quarter cake chocolate, half a cupful sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful cornstarch, one teaspoonful 
vanilla. 

If you bake these often, it will be worth your while to 
have made at the tinner's a set of small tins, about five 
inches long and two wide, round at the bottom, and kept 
firm by strips of tin connecting them. If you cannot 
get these, tack stiff writing-paper into the same shape, 
stitching each of the little canoes to its neighbor, after 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



195 



Use but the Best ... 

IT IS THE CHEAP E8 

"PRINCESS" 

Baking Powder 

Should be used by every family ; it is one of 
the best powders now on the market 



FOE SALE BY ALL GROCERS 



Give it a fair trial and we guarantee you will 
be satisfied ...... 



inm 



SOLE AGENTS IN CANADA 

LAPORTE, MARTIN 9t CIE. 

St. Peter Street, - MONTREAL 



Liver 
Troubles 



196 

. . . CURED BY USING , , , 

McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALE KrUnYWHERK 



the trictnner of a pontoon bridge. Have these made and 
buttered before you mix the cake, put a spoonful of 
batter in each, and bake in a steady oven. When nearly 
cold, cover the rounded side with a caramel icing, made 
by mixing the chocolate, sv/eet milk and corn starch 
together, boil it two minutes ; after it has fairly come to 
a boil, flavor, and then sweeten to taste with powdered 
sugar, taking care to make it sweet enough. These 
little cakes are popular favorites, and with a little prac- 
tice can be easily and quickly made. 

LINCOLN CAKE. 

Half a pound lard, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
six eggs, two cupfuls s^ur milk or cream, one grated nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, half a pound 
citron, one tablespoonful rose water. 

Cream the lard and sugar, put with them the yolks 
whipped light. Dissolve one teaspoonful Arm & Hammer 
brand of soda in a little hot water, and stir into the milk, 
add to the cake, then add the spice, next the flour, 
then the rose water, and a double handful of citron cut 
in slips and dredged, finally the beaten whites of the 
eggs. Stir all well, and bake in a loaf or in a " card," 
using a square, shallow baking pan. This is a good cake 
and keeps well. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part. — Whites of seven eggs, two cupfuls of 
white sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet 



Endorsed and 
used by best 
•Confectioners is 



Eagle Baking Powder 



197 

/MONTSERRAT "" «r 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Qroccrs and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK f'OR THE SUMMER 



milk, four cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. 

Brown Part, — Yolks of seven eggs, two cupfuls of 
brown sugar, one cupful of molasses, one cupful of sour 
milk, one cupful of butter, five cupfuls of flour, two table- 
spoonfuls of cloves, one nutmeg, one and one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

PLAIN SPONGE CAKE. 

One egg, one teacupful of sugar, one cupful of sweet 
milk, two and one-half cupfuls of flour, one dessert- 
spoonful tut 'er, two teaspoonfuls cream of ta'-tar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, and a litti,. salt. Bake fifteeii min- 
utes in pans size of a breakfast plate. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cupful of sugar, oiie cupful of 
molasses, one cupful of coffee cold, one cupful of currants, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of mixed spices, 
two or four eggs, flour to thicken. 

CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER. 

Five eggs well beaten, — yolks and whites separately, 
one pound of powdered sugar ; when well mixed let it 
stand an hour, then add one pound of flour, chop the 
mixture in very small cakes on tin plates ; any flavoring 
may be used. 



Eagle Baking Powder 'e 



used by the 
best cooks , . 



M 

Heailaclie 



198 

USE- 



McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



l?/5 Cents l*ar li<tx 



CURRANT CAKE. 

One pound flour, 6 ounces butter, three-quarters of a 
pound sugar, four eggs, half a pound currants well 
washed and dredged, half a teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in hot water, half a lemon — grated rind and juice, one 
teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Drop from a spoon upon well greased paper, lining 
a baking-pan. Bake quickly. 

CITRON CAKE. 

One and one-half cupfuls sliced citron, three cupfuls 
granulated sugar, two-thirds cupful butter, one cupful 
sweet milk, six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla or lemon 
extract, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, four and one- 
half cupfuls flour. 

Sift the baking powder through the flour. Cream 
together the butter and sugar, then add the well b_aten 
yolks of the eggs, the flavoring and milk. Beat all tho- 
roughly, adding a third of the flour. Ha^'e the whites 
of eggs well beaten, add part to the mixture, the rest of 
the flc r next, then the remainder of the whites. Then 
add the citron floured, divide in two cakes and bake in 
tins lined with well greased paper, in a moderate oven . 
Frost when cool. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 
Half a cupful butter, half a cupful brown su^^ar, two cup- 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL RJEMOVE IT 



199 



LUBY'S ""^'^^ HAIR 



fills cooking molasses, one cupful sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful gingcr,one teaspoonful salt.one teaspoonful soda, 
four cupfuls flour. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, sugar and butter together, 
add the ginger, salt and milk, then the flour and soda 
dissolved in milk, lastly the whites of eggs well beaten. 
Hake in a moderate oven from forty-five to fifty minutes. 
Cake with molasses requires slow baking. 



HUCKLF.BERRY CAKE. 

Three and one-half cupfuls flour, one quart huckle- 
berries, half a cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, half a cup- 
ful milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful grated nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks 
of eggs well beaten, the milk, spices and salt. Sift the 
baking powder through the flour, add part of it to the 
mixture, then part of the beaten whites of eggs, the rest 
of the flour and remaind'^r of whites. Mix thoroughly 
and lightly, adding last the huckleberries slightly floured. 
Grease the pans, and pour in about an inch thick. 
Dust the tops with sugar, and bake slowly from thirty to 
forty-five minutes. This cake is better the day after 
baking. 



FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

SATISF'iCTORY AND ECONOMICAL 

(jAundry Dopt ) Th«> MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 DORCH£ST£K SXKEKT. Telephone 1807 



200 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOn SALS i:VT:RYWinSRK 



DOMINOES. 

Take one cupful sugar, one egg, one cupful sweet milk, 
two cuofuls flour, one level tablespoonful cold butter, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder, flavor to taste. 

Have a plain cake baked in shallow biscuit tins, half 
an inch deep. When cool cut it into small oblong pieces 
the size and shape of dominoes, a trifle larger. Frost 
the top and sides of each piece. When the frosting is 
hard enough, drav/ the lines and dots by dipping a 
camel's hair brush in chocolate icing, making them corres- 
pond with dominoes. Nice for children's parties, pic- 
nics, etc. 

DOVER CAKE. 

One pound flour, one pound white sugar, six ounces 
butter rubbed with the sugar to a very light cream, six 
eggs, one cupful sweet milk, one teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in vinegar, one teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, 
one tablespoonful rose water ; flavor the frosting with 
lemon juice. 

VELVET CAKE. 

Half a pound of butter, one pound of pulverized sugar, 
one pound of flour, four eggs, one teacupful o^ cold 
water, half a teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar, 
flavor to taste ; bake an hour, add fruit and spice if de- 
sired, or make into chocolate cake by being baked as 
jelly cake. 

EPSLE BIIKlIKi POWDER COmPflNy 

394 and 396 St. Paul Street, MONTREAL 



201 
INVALID COOKERY 



Johnston's Fluid Beef 

Is indispensable wherever there is sickness 

TAYLOR CAKES. 

Twelve ounces sugar, five ounces lard, five eggs, one 
cupful milk, one quart molasses, one ounce cinnamon 
ground, thirty ounces flour, half an ounce Arm & Ham- 
mer brand of soda dissolved in the milk. 

Mix the lard and sugar together with the cinnamon, 
then add the eggs, molasses, milk and flour. Use about 
a tablespoonful of dough for each cake, and bake in a 
good oven. 

WARM GINGERBREAD. 

One scant cupful butter, one cupful milk, one cupful 
brown sugar, two cupfuls molasses, five cupfuls sifted 
flour, one teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and mace, one 
heaping tablespoonful ground ginger, one tablespoonful 
soda sifted with flour, four eggs. 

Warm molasses, butter, sugar and spices slightly toge- 
ther, and stir them to a yellow-brown cream, add the 
milk, beaten eggs and flour. Whip up well, and bake 
in two large shallow pans. Eat fresh with cheese and 
chocolate. 

LADY CAKE. 

Two-thirds cupful butter, two cupfuls white sugar, one 
cupful milk, six eggs well-beaten, four cupfuls flour, 
half a pound raisins chopped, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, half a teaspoonful soda, nutmeg or any other fla- 
voring. 

Always Use . 

J/ your Cfrocer has not yot it, wt-ite for Sample 



OGLE BAKING POWDER 



202 



OARIOTTE 



( 



CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

Haifa cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, three cupfuls 
flour, four eggs, one cupful grated chocolate, half a tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

Cream the sugar and butter together, put in the eggs 
one at a time, add the chocolate, add the flour in which 
the soda and cream of tartar have been well mixed. 
Roll thin. This makes a good quantity. They are 
better witii age. 

SUGAR CAKE. 

One and one-half cupfuls sugar, halt a cupful butter, 
one and one-quarter cupfuls sweet milk, a little salt, three 
teaspoonfuls baking powder mixed in flour, two eggs 
well beaten, nutmeg to taste, flour sufficient to rollout the 
dough. 

Cut with a cutter in cakes and bake in a hot oven. 

SAND TARTS. 

Three ounces butter, two pounds flour, two pounds 
sugar, three eggs. 

Cut the butter up in the flour, then add the sugar and 
eggs, roll them ; cut in squares, wet the top with a fea- 
ther dipped in egg, put thin strips of the dough across 
the top, and sprinkle with powdered almonds and cin- 
namon. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE YOUR €ORNS 



SiGR 

neaiiaclie 



203 
USE — 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



•?,3 Cants fer Box 



COCOANUT DROPS. 

Two cupfuls cocoanut, one cupful sugar, one table- 
spoonful flour, one egg white beaten stiff. 

Drop on buttered paper and sift sugar over them ; 
bake fifteen minutes in a slow ov.en. 

LOAF CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, three ounces butter, four egg yolks, 
two cupfuls flour, half a cupful sweet milk, one cupful 
seeded raisins, one teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg, one cupful bread sponge stirred in last. 

HONEY CAKE. 

One pint flour, two teaspoonfuls Eagle baking powder, 
two eggs, three ounces butter, one cupful sugar, one 
cupful honey, one tablespoonful carraway seed. 

Bake in a moderate oven. 

WASHINGTON Cy\KE. 

Two cupfuls sugar, one generous cupful butter, six egg 
yolks, one cupful cream, one pint flour, one teaspoonful 
extract vanilla, one tea-cupful each seeded raisins, cur- 
rants and sliced citron. 

Bake one and one-half hours. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WlLJj MMMOVm IX 



Liver 
Troubles 



20i 

. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McGALE'S 

Butternut Pills 



FOR SALB EVEBTWJBTJEBXI 



TEN MINUTES CAKE. 
Two-third cupfuls butter, two and one-half cupfuls 
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, four eggs, two 
cupfuls sugar, one cupful cream ; flavor with lemon 
extract, 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

One cupful New Orleans molasses, two scant table- 
spoonfuls lard melted, one cupful boiling water, one tea- 
spoonful soda or saleratus, three cupfuls flour, one table- 
spoonful ginger. 

Dissolve the soda or saleratus in a tablespoonful of 
boiling water, and add it to the molasses ; then add the 
melted lard, boilii ^ water, ginger and flour. Beat until 
smooth, and bake ' a moderate oven about thirty min- 
utes. 

HICKORY NUT CAJCE. 

Six ounces butter, two cupfuls flour, four egg whites, 
one and one-half cupfuls sugar, three-quarters of a 
cupful water, one cupful hickory nut kernels, one tea- 
spoonful Eagle baking powder. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the 
water and flour, stir until smooth ; add half the well- 
beaten whites, then the nuts, then the remainder of the 
whites, and the baking powder. Pour into square, flat 
pans lined with greased paper to the depth of three 
inches, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. 



ElllLE BMIIG POVe 



Gained popularity 
on merit alone . . 



ASK YOUR GROCER FOR IT 



205 
Sponges, Chamois, Toilet Soaps, Fine Perfumery 



CUMOH'S H STOIIE 



. AT . . . 

1978 
Notre Dame St. 



Bell Tel. 2595. Mepchants Tel. 500 



HARVEST CAKE. 

Three pints flour and three teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der sifted together, two-thirds of a pini soft lard, one 
quart sugar, five gills new milk, half a pint yeast, three 
eggs, two cupfuls seeded raisins, half a cupful molasses, 
two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls nutmeg. 

Mix and let rise; when light, bake in a moderate 
oven. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cupful molasses, one tablespoonful ginger, one tea- 
spoonful soda, two tablespoonfuls warm water or milk, 
one-third cupful butter, softened ; flour to mix soft. 

Put the molasses in the mixing bowl, and sift into it 

the ginger. Dissolve the soda in the water or milK and 

, stir it into the molasses ; add quickly the butter and 

. flour enough to make a dough as soft as can be rolled 

out half an inch thick. Cut into small rounds, and bake 

in a quick oven. 

HARLEQUIN CAKE. 

Three-quarters of a cupful butter or lard, two cupfuls 
sugar, three eggs, one cupful milk, three cupfuls pastry 
flour, two slightly rounding teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Rub to a light cream the lard and sugar, add the well- 
beaten egg yolks, and when this is light add the milk. 
Mix together the flour and baking powder, and stir intc 



ROUGH DRY WASHINC-Something New 

Sr.Nn FOR I'AIHH ULA.K8 

(Laundry Dept.) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 

589 DORCHESTBB STREET. Telephone 1807 



20 f) 



lleaiiaclie 



USE- 



McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



2fS Cents Per Boji 



tile egg mixture. Beat the egg whites stiff, and beat 
them thoroughly into the dough. When it is hf^'it and 
fine grained, divide the dough into four cl^ .al parts. 
Have two parts the color of the dough. Color ihe 
third with one square of unsweetened chocolate, melteJ. 
Color the fourth part with pink coloring, and bake each 
part in a Washington pie plate. When all are done, 
lay first a light cake, then the pink, then another light, 
then the chocolate. Between the layers spread lemon 
jelly, and frost with white frosting. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Scant half-cup butter, two cupfuls sugar, three cupfuls 
flour, one cupful milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful soda. 

Stir together without separating the eggs. Put frost- 
ing between the layers. 

FIG CAKE. 

Scant half a cupful Cottolene, two cupfuls sugar, half a 
cupful sweet milk, three cupfuls flour, eight whites of 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Bake in layers. Beat the whites of three eggs with 
two cupfuls powdered sugar. Spread a thin coating of 
icing on each layer, then a layer of split figs, then more 
icing, another cake layer, etc., finishing by icing the 
top. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND JtEMOVE TOUR CORNS 



207 



. SEWINC.MACHINE 



MA'RCHEVITE 



:#r,,^_ LUBRICANT . - 



GILT-EDGK CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, tvvocupfuls flour, three-quarters of a 
cupful water, three teaspoonfuls Cottolene, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, two yolks 

Bake in three layers. For filling, take three-quarters 
of a cupful sugar in enough water to melt. Let boil up, 
add whites of two eggs, beaten stiff. Mix well, add one- 
half teaspoonful each vanilla and lemon. Put between 
and on top. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 
One cupful of molasses, one tablespoonful of soda di.s- 
solved in half a cupful of boiling water, one tablespoonful 
ginger, two tablespoonfuls butter, and flour enough to 
roll out thin, cut with cake cutter, and cook in^ quick 
oven. 

COOKIES. 
One cupful of butter, one cupful of brown sugar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, three eggs, flour enough to roll out 
thin. 

COOKIES. 
One tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of sugar one 
egg, half a cupful of milk, half a teaspoonful of soda one 
tablespoonful of ginger, flour to roll ; cut in round cakes, 
and bake in a rather quick oven. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

OORN SALVE 

WILL RBMOrS IT „ 



208 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . CURED BY USING . . . 

McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



rOB SALE hvmtrwHEBB 



OLD FASHiONED JUMBLES. 
Nine eggs, three cupfuls sugar, one generous cupful 
butter, flour to roll. Cut in small cakes, and bake quick. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, two 
eggs, half a cupful of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda ; 
mix just so that you can roll out, then sprinkle with 
sugar just before putting in oven ; bake quick. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One pint molasses, five eggs, one coffee-cupful sour 
milk, one of butter, one tablespoonful ginger, one table 
spoonful soda, flour to thicken ; bake in a long tin. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, one-half cupful cream, two egg.s, one 
cupful flour, one-half teaspoonful cream tartar, one- 
fourth soda; flavor with a few drops of lemon essence. 

JELLY CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, two eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls milk, one cupful flour, essence, one 
teaspoonful Eagle baking powder, or one-half teaspoonful 
cream tartar and one-fourth soda ; bake in two jelly tins 
in a moderately warm oven ; beat the sugar and butter 
well together. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 



CORN SALVE 

AND BEMOrX! TOVB CORNS 






2on 



eLSTABUSHED laTO 



HENRI J0NA5 & CO. 



MANUFACTURERS OF 



L$. Flavoring Extracts i 

-©- 



;i«f> St, Paul Street, Montreal 



DELICIOUS 

LEMON, 

VANILLA, 
ORANGE, 

ROSE, 
ALMOND, 

GINGER, 




EXTRACTS OF 
STRAWBERRY, 
RASPBERRY, 
PINE APPLE, 

CINNAMON, 
CLOVES, 

CELERY. 



Perfectly Pure Extracts of Choicest Fruits. 

J6^" No colorintj or Adulteration ever used. THE BEST. Une- 
qualled strength for all. Thousands of gross sold. Winning friends 
ererywhere. Dealers treble sales witii them. Evc-y family should 
know their Delicious Flavors. Ask your grocer or dealer for them. 

. . . SOLE AOENTS IN CANADA FOR . . . 

BRETON'S Celebrated French Vegetable Colorings. 
DELORY'S French Peas and Vegetables. 
GHAS. GUILLAUMIN, Mushrooms and Table Delicacies 
A. LENOIR PILS, Potted Meats and Truffles. 
rONAS HANART, Salad Oils and French Extracts. 



Bbll Telephone 
2261 



*f MERCHANTS TELEPHONE 
\* . 380 

14 



210 



M 

leanacQe 



I 



USB- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2S Centfi l^er Box 



FRITTERS. 
Two eggs, two cupfuls sour milk, one teaspoonful sugar, 
four tablespoonfuls butter, flour to thicken fry in pans, 
with lard. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, three-fourths of a pound butter, 
three-fourths of a pound sugar, eight eggs; flavor to 
taste. 

I, 2, 3, 4, CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three cupfuls of 
flour, four eggs, add a little more flour, rollout very thin 
•on sugar, cut any shape, and bake quickly. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful of sugar, two eggs, two tabhspoonfuls of 
melted butter, two-thirds cupful of milk, two even tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, one even teaspoonful of soda, 
flour enough to roll, salt and nutmeg. 

LUNCH CAKE. 

One-half pound butter, one pouno flour, one-half 
ounce caraway seeds, one-fourth pound currants, six 
ounces moist sugar, one ounce candied peel, three eggs, 
one-half pint milk, one small teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda ; bake in a moderate oven from one to one and one- 
half hours. Proved to be very good. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WIZZ MXIMOrX IT 



211 
. . . HAVE YOU TRIED A CUP OF . . . 

Johnston's Fluid Beef 

THE LAST THING AT NIGHT? 



It ensxiros <iuiat and restful nlaep 

FRIED CAKES. 

Three eggs, two and one-half cupfuls sweet milk, two 
cupfuls sugar, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one of 
soda, spices to taste ; roll out and cut in shapes, and fry 
in boiling lard ; while hot dip in fine sugar. 

DROP CAKES. 

One pint of flour, one-half pound of butter, one-fourth 
pound of sifted sugar, half a nutmeg grated, a handful of 
currants, two eggs, and one teaspoonful of Eagle baking 
powder; to be baked in a slack oven for ten a?inutes. 
The above quantity will make about thirty cakes. 

PLAIN SPONGE FOR JELLY OR COCOANUT 

CAKE. 

One cupful flour, one cupful sugar, three eggs — yolks 
and whites beaten separately, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, four tablespoon fuls cold 
water. Flavor to taste. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, two eggs, one-half cupful butter, 
one-half cupful milk or water, two cupfuls of flour, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, cne-half teaspoonful of 
soda, and a little nutmeg. 



MANGLED WORK BY THE POUND 

SEND FOB PARTICULARS 

OUundry Dept.) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DORCHESTER STREET. Telephone 1807 



212 



Liver 
Troubles 



. . . OURBD BY USINQ . . . 

MoCALE'8 

Butt:^pnut Pills 



JfOM SjLLX JiVJSRYWUMBlB 



CREAM CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of cream, two 
cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one 
teaspoonful of sodii. 

JOE'S CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful butter, two eggs, 

half a cupful of raisins chopped fine, half a cupful of 

currants, a little lemon peel, one teaspoonful of essence 

/ oflcmon, one-half cup of milk, two teaspoonfuis of I'Lagle 

baking powder, and three cupfuls of flour. 

SrONGE JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs beaten separately, one cupful sugar.one cup- 
ful flour, two teaspoonfuis I'vagic baking powder put into 
the flour, and three tablespoonfuls boiling water. Mix 
all together, and cook in jelly tin.s in a quick oven. Place 
either jelly or chocolate frosting between the cakes. 

WASHINGTON CREAM CAKE. 

Two cupfuls sugar, one-half cupful sweet milk, four 
eggs, three cupfuls flour, three even teaspoonfuis Eagle 
baking powder, butter the size of an egg. 

Cream for Washington Cake.— One pint of sweet 
milk, three eggs, one cupful flour, one of sugar, flavor 
with anything ; after it is cooked add half a cup butter, 
and place between the cakes as you would jelly. 



^^ASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AJfTi JtJS.VOVJB YaXTR COMJfS 



2i;i 



y'MONTSERRAT '"f^r 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temporato Drinks. To be had from 
all Qrocers and Druggists 

THe MOST WHOLBSOMM DRINK FOR THm SUMMB/f 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

One-half pound of well washed currants and one halt 
pound of raisins, one cupful of butter beaten to a cream, 
one cupful of white sugar, one cupful of milk, three cup- 
fuls of flour, three tggs, and three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder; paper a dish and bake one hour. 

GINGER SPICK CAKE. 
One cupful of molasses, half a cupful of butter, half a 
cupful of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of cloves, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of Eagle baking 
powder, salt ; bake in a quick oven. 

GINGER CAKE. 

Three eggs, three-quarters of a cupful of sugar, one 
cupful of molasses, one cupful of milk, three-quarters of 
a cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, one tablespoonful of ginger, 
one of cinnamon, allspice, three cupfuls of flour. 

GERMAN LADIES' FINGERS. 
Beat the yolks of five eggs with half a pound of sugar 
for fifteen minutes; add half a pound of blanched alm- 
onds cut fine, the grated rind of one lemon ; mix well • 
add half a pound of flour very gradually; roll out the 
paste and cut into strips the length and size of the fore- 
finger ; bake in a moderate oven. 

""^^ EAGLE BAKING POWDER 

If you wirtli light, flaky biscuits ami delicious pa-try. 
' Send for Snmple Tin Fre« 



M 

jeanacle 



214 

USE- 



McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



2a Cents Pei- Box 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 
One-half cupful chocolate grated, one cupful sugar, yolk 
of one egg, small cup half full of sweet milk ; put on stove, 
and stir while cooking till it will candy when dropped in 
cold water. 

SPONGE CAKE. 
Four eggs, two cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls flour, one- 
half cup cold water, three teaspoonfulb Eagle baking 
powder ; beat the eggs separately. 

CUP CAKE. 

One cupful butter,two cupfuls sugar, three cupfuls flour, 
four eggs, cupful milk, three teaspoonfuls Eagle baking 
powder. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

For the cake take part of two cupfuls of sugar, half a 
cupful of butter, three-quartersof a cupful of sweet milk, 
whites of six eggs, three cupfuls of flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls of Eagle baking powder. 

Jelly fo.<. Lemon Cheese Cake. — Grated rind and 
juice of two lemons, yolks of three eggs, half a cupful of 
butter, one cupful of sugar ; mix all together, and set 
on the stove and cook till thick as sponge, taking care 
not to burn ; use like jelly between the cakes, or bake 
one square cake and put the dressing on top, and cut in 
shape of diamonds. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McG ALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

WILL REMOVE IT 



215 



LUBY'S HAIR 



GBOWEB and 
RESTORER . . 



RIC^, CAKE. 

One cupful of white sugar, one cupful office flour, five 
eggs, one teaspoonful of any essence preferred ; beat all 
together for twenty minutes ; bake half an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

CHEAP AND GOOD CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-fourth cupful of butter, three- 
fourths cupful writer cold, cxiC and three-fourths cupful of 
flour, whites of two eggs, one teaspoonful of lemon, 
Eagle baking powder used. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of white sugar, one 
cupful of milk, three coffee-cupfuls of flour, whites of six 
eggs well beaten, three teaspoonfuls Eagle baking pow- 
der, one cocoanut grated ; do not use the milk of nut. 

COCOANUT MADE AS JELLY CAKE. 

One cupful o'" butter, three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful 
of milk, five cupfuls of fl^^^r, six teaspo'^i.TjIs of Eagle 
bakingpowder, whites of eight eggs; bake in jelly cake 
pans. For dressing to put between, take the whites of 
six eggs beaten stiff, halfa pound of dessicated cocoanut 
and one cupful of powdered sugar. 



[a£le Bal(iii£ Powder c 



s endorsed by . . 
Cliemicrtl Authorities. 



leanacie 




McCALE*8 

Butternut Pills 



2S Cents JPer Box 



WEDDING CAKE. 

Five pounds cf seeded raisins, two pounds of currants, 
one pound of citron, twelve eggjs, one pound of butter, 
one pound sugar (brown), one coffee-cupful of molasses, 
a little brandy, one tea-cupful of spices. 

ICING FOR ANY CAKE. 

Instead of beating ihe eggs to a stiff froth, as is gen- 
erally the case, take four tablespoonfuls of sugar to the 
egg, and stir thoroughly, then spread on cake ; this will 
make a much harder icing than beating it. 

WINTER SPONGE CAKE. 

Take four eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two coffee-cup- 
fuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls creain tartar, two-thirds of 
a cupful boiling water, and lemon to flavor ; add the 
water last, pour into a pan and place into a well-heated 
oven. This, though apparently very thin, will come 
from the oven a most delightful cake. 

SODA CAKE. 

Two cupfuls sugar, one-half-cupful butter, one cupful of 
milk, three and one-half of flour, two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful Eagle baking powder ; flavor with lemon. 



McCALE'S 
YOU HAVE ..^i^.^^^^-, ^^ ^ M m M^^ 

ONE u OORN SALVE 

WILL RJEMOVB IT 



Jit 



Johnstons Fluid Beef 

IS FIFTY TIMES MORE 
NOURISHING THAN . . 

MEAT EXTRACTS OF HOME MADE BEEF TEA 

GINGER DROP CAKES. 
Two cupfuls of molasses, two cupfuls of sugar, two 
cupfuls of butter or lard, two cupfuls of sour milk, two 
tablespoonfuls of soda, two spoonfuls of cinnamon, one 
of cloves, nine cupfuls of Hour, and ginger to suit taste ; 
drop from spoon into a pan, and cook in oven, taking 
care not to burn. 

FIG CAKE. 
For the white part : Take two cupfuls of sugar, two 
of flour, two-thirds of sweet milk, one-half of butter, 
whites of five eggs, two teaspoonfuls Eagle baking pow- 
der ; bake this in two round tins like you would iellv- 
cakc, \ 

ORANGE CAKE. 
One cupful of sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cup- 
ful of sweet milk, two cupfuls of flour, three eggs, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of Eagle baking powder''; Lke 
in jelly tins. 

SPICE CAKE. ,. _ 

ADA KING. 
One cup of sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, fill up 
with milk, one egg, one and three-fourths cups of flour, 
one small teaspoon soda, one dessert spoon of cinnamon,' 
cloves, and allspice. 



the 
Best 



Eagle Baking Powder 



-l*V«« Snnf^f" 



-U nrUuiff 394 and 396 St. Paul Street, MontrecU 



218 



OARIOTTE 



ii:-.:-- 



DRINKS 



TEA. 

When the water in the tea-kettle begins to boil, have 
ready a tin tea-steeper, pour into the tea-steeper just a 
very little of the boiling water, and then put in tea, 
allowing one teaspoonful of tea to each person. Pour 
over this boiling water until the steeper is little more 
than half full, cover tightly and let it stand where it will 
keep hot, but not boil. Let the tea infuse for ten or 
fifteen minutes, and then pour into the tea urn, adding 
more boiling water, in the proportion of one cupful of 
water for every teaspoonful of dry tea which has been 
infused. Haveboiling waterin a water pot, and weaken 
each cup of tea as desired. Do not use water for tea 
that has boiled long. Spring water is best for tea, and 
filtered water next best. 

TEA A LA RUSSE. 

Pare and slice fresh, juicy lemons, lay a piece in the 
bottom of each cup, sprinkle with white sugar, and pour 
hot, strong tea over. Or the lemon may be sent around 
in slices with the peel on. No cream is used. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILX. RMMOrXi IT 



219 

/ 'MONTSERRAT ""Vor 

IN HOT WEATHER 

The very best of Temperate Drinks. To be had from 
all Grocers and Druggists 

THE MOST WHOLESOME DRINK FOR THE SUMMER 



CURRANT WINE. 

MRS J. 1). ODELL. 

, One quart of currant juice, three pounds of sugar, 
sufficient water to make a gallon. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape Baker's chocolate fine, mix with a little cold 
water and the yolks of eggs well beaten ; add this to 
equal parts of milk ' and water, and boil well, being care- 
ful that it does not burn. Sweeten to taste, and serve 
hot. 

COFFEE. 

• ' • MISS RILEY. 

The following is a delicious dish either for summer 
breakfast or dessert : Make a strong infusion of Mocha 
coffee, put it in a porcelain bowl, sugar H properly, and 
add to it an equal port* on of boiled milk, or one-third 
the quantity of a rich cream. Surround the bowl with 
pounded ice. 

Roasting Coffee. — This process should be carefully 
watched and superintended. When the berry crackles 
and becomes crisp it is sufficiently roasted. Once 
taken cITthe roaster, it should be placed in several 
thick folds of flannel, to preserve the oil and aroma. 
When cool, place it in an air-tight cannister. 



FAMILY WASHING OUR SPECIALTY 

(Laundry Dept.) Tho MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
689 DORCHKSTKR STREET. Telephone 1807 



220 



Oarlotte 



LEMON SYRUP. 

MRS. CHRISTOPHER PATTERSON. 

Seven pounds of loaf sucjar, three quarts of water, four 
ounces of citric acid, one drachm of oil of lemon. Dissolve 
three pounds of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pound of 
best cloves, slightly bruised ; bottle well, and seal. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

MRS. W, S. WALKER. 

To four quarts red raspberries, put enough vinegar to 
cover, and let them stand twen.y-four hours ; scald and 
strain it ; add a pound of sugar to one pint of juice, 
boil it twenty minutes, and bottle ; it is then ready for 
use, and will keep years. To one glass of water add a 
great spoonful. It is much relished by the sick. Very 
nice. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

MRS. JOSEPH B. LEA.KE. 

Fill a jar with red raspberries picked from the stalks. 
Pour in as much vinegar as it will hold. Let it stand ten 
days, then strain it through a sieve. Don't press the 
berries, just let the juice run through. To every pint 
add one pound loaf sugar. Boil it like other syrup ; skim, 
and bottle when cold. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE TOUR CORNS 



221 



RADNOR" CLARET or SAUTERNB 

CUP. 




The juice of three lemons. 
2 fiprige of mint. 

Small f)i(cc of cucumber 
rind. 

•-' One pint of claret, or 
Sauterne. 

Add Sugar to (asle, and 
stir well, then add 

One pint of "Radnor" 
Table Water. 



It would be well to have both the " Radnor " and wine 
on ice until cold, as this is preferable to addin.^ ice in glass 
or pitcher. 

'' RADNOR " LEMONADE. 

Make in the sar>.e manner as ordinary le.nonade, using 
" Radnor " Water instead of the ordinary. 
^ This will be found a most agreeable and healthful drink. 

'^RADNOR" COLLINS. 

Squeeze the juice of one lemon into a glass, add sugar 
to taste. " 

^ Add half a wine glass of Old Tom Gin, then f^ll the glass 
with iced " Radnor," stirring well. 

" Radnor " should always be kept on its side in a cool 
place, and will be found preferable in making ligh summe 
drinks to soda or other waters, on account of L delLc 
pumy and smoothness, while its well-known health-givTng 
properties make it as beneficial as it is pleasant ^ 



222 



Liver 
Troubles 



, . , CURED BY USINQ , , , 

McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



won SALE EVEMTWHEBB 



ICED TEA A LA RUSSE. 
To each glass of tea add the juice of half a lemon, fill 
up the glass with pounded ice, and sweeten. 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

MRS. BAUSHER. 

To one pint of juice put one pound of white sugar, 
one-half ounce of powdered cinnamon, one-fourth ounce 
mace, and two teaspoonfuls cloves ; boil all together for 
one-quarter of an hour, then strain the syrup, and add to 
each pint a glass of French brandy. 

WHITE CURRANT CORDIAL. 

MRS. SPENCE. 

To every quart of white currants bruised add one 
quart of best whiskey, the rind of a fresh lemon pared 
very thin ; let it stand for two da}s, then strain or filter. 
To the above add one pound of loaf sugar, quarter of an 
ounce of the best ginger, and juice ofthelemoii.. Bottle 
and seal ; it will be fit for use in a month, and the longer 
it is kept the better it is. 

GINGER CORDIAL. 
To one pound of picked currants, red or black, add one 
quart of whiskey, one ounce of bruised ginger; put in a 
stone jar and let it stand for twenty-four or thirty-six 
hours ; strain through a flannel bag, and add half a p und 
of sugar ; when it is all melted, bottle. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



wiltj remove it 



223 



OARIOTTE 



CHERRY CORDIAL. 

To six pounds of cherries add three pounds of sugar 
and one gallon of whiskey. Shake the jar often for the 
first three weeks, then bottle. 

LKMON SYRUP. 
Pour six quarts of boiling water on five pounds of 
white sugar, one and one-half ounces of tartaric acid, and 
a little whole ginger ; let stand till cold ; then add one 
small bottle of essence of lemon. Strain and bottle. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

MRS. SPENCE. 

Dissolve two pounds of crushed sugar in three quarts 
of water ; boil down to two quarts ; drop in the white of 
an egg while boiling, then strain, and put in the tartaric 
acid ; when cold drop in the lemon to your taste; then 
bottle and cork. Shake two or three times a day. 

ESSENCE OF GINGER. 

MRS. CHRISTOPHER PATTERSON. 

Infuse four ounces of well bruised ginger, add an ounce 
of lemon peel sliced thin in a pint and a half of strong 
rectified spirits (of brandy), let it be closely stopped and 
shaken every day. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 



CORN SALVE 

AXD BEMOrXl TOUB OOBNS 



I 224 



Only 60c. Y TlftV^C PARISIAN 

a Bottle . LUDl 3 HAIR REHEWER 

HOT MULLED WINE. 

MRS. HKXDELARI. 

To every pint of wine allow one large cupful of water 
one tablespoonful of sugar, half a saltspoonful of cloves, 
half a saltspoonful of cinnamon, half a saltspoonful of 
nutmeg. First tie your spices in a muslin bag, and put 
the water into a porcelain saucepan with the spices, and 
when it has simmered a few minutes add the wine, 



CHAMPAGNE CUP. 

MRS. BENDELARI. 

One quart bottle of champagne, two bottles of soda 
water, one liqueur glass of brandy, twotablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, a few thin strips of cucumber rind ; 
make this just in time for use, and add a large piece of 
ice. 

CLARET CUP. 

MRS. BENDELARI. 

One quart bottle of r^ -et, one bottle of soda water, 
one lemon cut very th: ., tour tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, quarter of a teaspoonful of gr^^ted nutmeg, one 
liquor glass of brandy, one wine glass of sherry wine. 
Half an hour before it is to be used, put in a large piece 
of ice, so that it may get perfectly cold. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



MrUALE*S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT. REMOrX! IT 



225 

The 



/Montreal Ice tjecliange, 

26 VICTORIA SQUARE, 

R. A. BECKET, . Manag-eP. 



Pure Ice . 

and Prompt Delivery, 



^f^5^|-jriei.KI"HOIVI? ass. 



JOHN AULD, . PPopPietoP. 

Canadian Cork Cutting CoV. 
"v Patknt Machinery 
Office ana Facto.,: 642 La«:auchet,ene Con. Chennev.Ue St. 
p. . MONTREAL. 

CANE BOTTLE B ASKETS, Tir;-FOIL. 

Please oraer from your (irocer onl 



*®°' The Best °^^ 



GURD'S "" "" 



Soda Water, 
Apple Nectar. 



^m^ 



2 Cold, 2 Silver, 4 Bronze Medals 
and 12 Diplomas awarded for 
"Superior Excellence." 

CHARUESGURD&CO, 

MONTRE^AL. 

IS 



226 



Oarlotte 



RED CURRANT CORDIAL. 

MRS. SPENCE. 

To two quarts of red currants, put one quart of whiskey; 
let it stand twenty-four hours, then bruise and strain 
through a flannel bag. To every two quarts of this liquor, 
add one pound of loaf sugar and 'quarter of a pound of 
ginger well bruised and boiled ; let the whole stand to 
settle, then strain or filter ; bottle and cork, seal the corks 
tightly. 

N.B. — It is an improvement to have half red raspberry 
juice if the flavor is liked. The above is fit for use in 
a month. 

DRINKS FOR THE SICK ROOM 

m 
EGG GRUEL. 

Boil eggs from one to three hours until hard enough 
to crrate ; then boil new milk, and thicken with the egg> 
and add a iittle salt. Excellent in case of nausea. 

GRUEL FOR INFANTS. 
To make a gruel for infants suffering from marasmus, 
take one pint of goat's milk and the yolks of two eggs 
boiled sufficiently hard to reduce to an impalpable 
powder ; add a pint of boiling water, a little salt or 
sugar, apd administer by a nursing bottle. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND BBMOITE TOUR OOBNS 



227 



Johnston's Fluid Beef 



<( 



With Ilyi»o|»h««Ni>hlte» 



f» 



Thl» ej.oellent preparation 



—.»,.,, preparation ootnl.ine« the virt.ir.g of p i „ 

BEEF TEA. 

let it boil slo V J'fo J r -'"'pieces, cover, and 

afteHtisboile/tceLr ""'''"'^''^''■"'^-'' 

BEEF JELLY FOR INVALIDS. 
Ihree small onions, three sm-.ll ,,r 
large carrots, a few whole cl "s Ld bircr '"""''''' 
small teaspoonful of su^ar, one sit" „f . "'''''"' °"' 
feet, one and one-half p^und^'ef Lu^T ""^ 
and other ingredients in succssio , P^ '" ""t""'""' 
top, then .he ealfs feet, and 1 t^'the ^f n\ 7" 
put on the side of th^ m., , . ' ' "° ^ater 

to a soft m ss t ! ,dd f ' 'V ''^"^ ""'■' ^^-^^ 
one hour; s:in I d t. ^.rdt iUMr '"'■"""•' 
'"efat. Use b, dissolWngTm r 'Jaf ^ ""^ 




TtWU fOR OUR PRICES FOR 



228 



il 
■ i 



OARLOTTE 



JELLIES 

In all recipes where the use of gelatine is necessary, 
be sure and use only Lady Charlotte. 

CUSTARD JELLY. 

Make a boiled custard of one quart of fresh milk, three 
eggs, one teacupful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla ; 
dissolve half a box of Lady Charlotte gelatine in as little 
water as will cover it, and when well dissolved add the 
juice of one lemon and two glasses of sherry ; stir the 
custard well while pouring in this mixture ; strain 
through a sievo into a mould. Serve with whipped cream, 
flavored with wine and vanilla, or with rich cream. 

SNOW JELLY. 

A package of Lady Charlotte gelatine soaked till quite 
soft in a cup of cold water, then add about a quart ot 
boiling water ; stir till quite dissolved ; add juice and 
grated rind of three lemons; sugar to taste; strain 
through muslin, and set in a cold olace. When quite 
stiff, beat in the whites of four weii beaten eggs, and 
then pour Into moulds. It will make about a quart and 
a half. This is very suitable for invalids who cannot 
take wine, also an exceedingly ornamental jelly. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WUjIs ItJEMOrJB IX 



22!» 



OARIOTTE 




LEMON JELLY. 

MRS. LAURIE. 
One paper of Lady Charlotte gelatine ; let it stand 
one hour m warm water ; then add one quart of L I 

ORANGE JELLY. 

MRS. BINKS. 
Soak one package of Lady Charlotte edatine in on- 
half p,nt cold water for one hour; add the juice Jfth" 
lemons two pounds sugar and one quart boiling 
when all are dissolved add one pint o^orange juice ■ s a n' 

::Srktr°"'"'"'^^"^^-"--^'''-^e: 

QUEEN 3F JELLIES. 
Dissolve one ounce package of Lady Charlotte 
geattne .„ a pint ofcold water for an hour : add the rind 
and ju.ce of two or three large lemons, one and one half 
pounds of sugar, then pour on this mixture c ,e cuart of 
botlmg water, add one pint of orange or raspberry ce 
and pour nUo moulds. This flavoring is very nice and 
■s to supersede the necessity of wine, which some con- 
sider mdispensable i„ the san.e proportion 



EASE AND 
COMFORT I 



Use MeCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

-«Jv/> REMOVE Tann cnjtjvs 



Liver 
Troubles 



230 

. . . OURED BY USINQ , , , 

McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



FOB 8AZJB EVEBTWirERll 



SNOW DRIFTS. 

MRS. S. M'MASTER. 

Half a box of Lady Charlotte gelatine, one pint of 
boiling water, juice of two lemons, two cupfuls of sugar, 
whites of five eggs; dissolve the gelatine in the water; 
add the lemon and sugar mixed together ; put in mould 
to cool ; when coo/, but not cold, take the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff, sweetened and flavored, and float them 
on boiling milk for about one minute. Now take the 
gelatine from your mould (instantly place the mould in 
cold water), and with a fork, beat up the gelatine that 
has become firm into bits, but not into liquid. Now take 
your mould and add spoonful about of the broken up 
jelly and the whites of eggs, filling up the mould with 
the jelly, that became soft in spite of you \ place to cool. 
Serve on a dish surrounded by a custard made from the 
yolks of the eggs and one more ; one pint of milk. 



you HA\/E 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL REMOVE IT 



231 



Oarlotte 



MEDICINAL 



GRANDMOTHER'S SALVE FOR EVERY- 
THING. 

MRS. GARDNKR. 

Two pounds of resin and half a teacupful of mutton 
tallow after it is hard, half as much beeswax, and half 
an ounce of camphor gum ; put all together into an old 
kettle, and let it dissolve and just come to a boil, stir- 
ring with a stick ; then take half a pail of warm water, 
just the chill off, pour it in ana stir carefully until you 
can get your hands around it. Two persons must each 
take half, and pull like candy until quite white and 
brittle ; put a little grease on your hands to prevent 
sticking, and keep them wet all the time. Wet the 
table, roll out the salve, and cut it with a knife. Keep 
it in a cool place. 

CHOLERA REMEDY. 

MRS. GARDNER. 

Mix in a small bottle equal parts of tincture of opium 
(laudanum), rhubarb, capsicum (red pepper, double 
strength), camphor, and spirits of nitre, essence of pepper- 
mint double strength. Shake well, and cork tight. 
Dose : From five to thirty drops every fifteen minutes. 
Dose for children, from two to ten drops. 

FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

SATISFACTORY AND ECONOMICAL 

tt,aundry Dept ) Tho MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DORCHKSTEB SXBE£T. Telephone 1807 



2H2 



LUBY'S ^^T" HAIR 



HOW TO CURE A BONE FELON. 

Of all painful things can there be any su excruciat- 
ingly painful as a bone felon ? We know of none that 
the flesh is heir to, and as this malady is quite frequent 
and the subject of much earnest considetation, we give 
the latest recipe for its cure, which is given by that high 
authority, the London Lancet : — " As soon as the pulsa- 
tion which indicates the disease is felt, put directly over 
the spot a fly blister, about the size of your thumb nail, 
and let it remain for six hours, at the expiration of 
which time, directly under the surface of the blister, 
may be seen the felon, which can be instantly taken 
out with the point of a needle or a lancet." 

FLANNELS FOR FOMENTATION. 

J. K. GILMOUR. 

Fold the flannel the size to fit over a pot of boiling 

water, and cover with a lid ; in a few minutes it will be 

hotter than if wrung out of boiling water and yet dry 

at the corners ; roll it up covered, and convey quickly 

to the patient. 

FOR HOARSENESS. 

Squeeze the juice of half a lemon in a pint bowl, add 
loaf sugar (two tablespoonfuls), one full teaspoonful of 
glycerine, and one full tablespoonful of whiskey ; pour 
over this boiling water to nearly fill the bowl, and 
drink hot just before going to bed. 

Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



A^m jRBMOrX! TOUR consTs 



283 



Two Points... 



. . . OF . . . 



Interest 






H 



ARD TO READ. Yes, so are many prescrip- 
tSons, but we are a match for any of them. We 
take every precaution so that you shall get not 
only the proper ingredients, but also the purest and best 
goods in the market. The prescriptions are filled by 
licensed and qualified clerks, whose efficiency is beyond 
doubt, and as a further precaution no prescriptions or 
family recipes are delivered without being examined 
and verified again by the proprietor or by a licensed 
druggist. 

ROD. CARRIERS 

Jubilee ,Dpu^ yall 

1341 St. Cath(?rinc Str<?<?t. 

OfENEO ON SUNDA Y. Bkxwkkk P.xkt ..„ p.,««,« ^ts. 

^^'TELEPHONE e04I. 



234 



OARIOTTE 



FOR SORE THROAT. 

Cut slices of salt pork or fat bacon, simmer a few 
moments in hot vinegar, and apply to throat as hot as 
possible. When this is taken off, as the throat is relieved, 
put around a bandage of soft flannel. A gargle of equal 
parts of borax and alum, dissolved in water, is also ex- 
cellent. To be used frequently. 

HEALING LOTION. 

MRS. A. YOCUM. 

One ounce glycerine, one ounce rosewater, ten drops 
carbolic acid. This preparation prevents and cures chap- 
ping of the skin, and at the same time bleaches it. It is 
also excellent for sore lips and gums. I consider it an 
indispensable adjunct to the toilet table. 

THE BEST DEODORIZER. 

Use bromo-chloralum in the proportion of one table- 
spoonful to eight of soft water, dip cloths in this solution 
and hang in the rooms, it will purify sick rooms of any 
foul smells. The surface of anything may be purified 
by washing well and then rubbing over with a weakened 
solution of bromo-chloralum. A weak solution is 
excellent to rinse the mouth with often, when from any 
cause the breath is offensive. It is also an excellent 
wash for sores and wounds that have an offensive odor. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McCALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILL RVMOVB IT 



m»T. 



235 




PoiAd 



re 




• • 




^ 

m 
^ 
^ 
^ 
* 



O&t&t^r^#$:^l<^fT0 



^ 




Cures a cold in the head 
quickly, without irritatino- 
the mucous membrane. 
Every person should have 
a box in his room. 



* 



i* 



SOLD AT 25c. 
• • - A BOX . . . 



LAVIOLETTE & NELSON. 

Agents foP Preneh Specialties, 

1605 Notpe Dame Street, 



CoKNEB St. Gabriel 
N.B.-Dispensing done with French chemical 



8 when required to do so. 



236 



LUBY'S HAIR 



GROWER and 
RESTORER . . 



CURE FOR NEURALGIA. 

A friend who suffered horrible pains from neuralgia, 
hearing of a noted physician in Germany who invariably 
cured the disease, went to him, and was permanently 
cured after a short sojourn. The doctor gave him the 
remedy, which was nothing but a poultice and tea 
made from our common field thistle. The leaves are 
macerated and used as a poultice on the parts affected, 
while a small quantity of the same is boiled down to 
the proportion of a quart to a pint, and a small wine- 
glassful of the decoction drank before each meal. Our 
friend says he has never known it to fail in giving 
relief, while in almost every case it has effected a 
cure. God gave herbs for the healing of the 
nations. 

TINCTURE OF IODINE ON CORNS. 

MRS. C. PATTERSON. 

Dr. Bajis states that corns may be rapidly cured 
by the application of the tincture of iodine, the corn 
disappearing in the course of a few days if touched with 
the tincture several times a day. If the corn be sit- 
uated between the toes, it should be covered with a 
piece of linen steeped in a mixture of the tincture and 
glycerine. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE TOUR CORNS 



o • • 




237 

. . . FAniLY RECIPES 

S-'"°r J, H. F. Cliiroii's 

1978 NOTRE DAME ST. 

Bell Tel. 2B95 Merchants Tel. 500 

GARGLE FOR SORE THROAT. 
Very strong sage tea one-half pint, strained honey, 
common salt, and strong vinegar, of each two tablespoon- 
fuls ; cayenne, pulverized, one heaping teaspoon ful ; 
steeping the cayenne with the sage, strain, mix, and 
bottle for use, gargling from four to a dozen times daily 
according to the severity of the case. 

TOOTH-ACHE AND NEURALGIA REMEDY. 

Mapietic Tooth Cordial and Pain Killer. — Best alcohol 
one ounce, laudanum one-eighth ounce, chloroform, liquid 
measure, five-eighths ounce, gum camphor one- half 
ounce, oil of cloves one-half drachm, sulphuric ether three- 
quarters ounce, and oil of lavender one drachm. If there is 
a nerve exposed this will quiet it. Apply with lint. Rub 
also on the gums and upon the face against the tooth 
freely. 

* WORM TEA. 

Carolina pink-root, senna leaf, manna, and American 
worm-seed, of each one-half ounce ; bruise and pour on 
one pint, and steep without boiling. Sweeten well, add 
half as much milk. Dose— A child of five years may 
take one gill three times daily, before meals, or sufficient 
to move the bowels rather freely. 

If this does not carry off any worms, wait one day and 



ROUGH DRY WASHINC-Something New 

SEND FOR PAIITICULA.ES 

(Laundry Dept.) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO, 
S89 DOBCHBSXBB STRC£T. Telephone 1807 



238 



Lemon Phosphate 

This preparation !a the Natural Aoid of the 
Lemon combined with Acid Phosphate . . . 



. . A REFRESHING AND TONIC DRINK . . 

repeat the operation ; but if the bowels do not move by 
the first day's work, increase the dose and continue to 
give it until that end is attained before stopping the 
medicine. This plan will be found an improvement 
upon the old, where the lozenges or oil cannot be ob- 
tained, as above. 

WORM CAKE. 

English Remedy. — Wheat flour and jalap, of each 
one-half pound ; calomel, grain-tin and ginger, of each 
one ounce. Mix Liioroughly and wet up as dough, to a 
proper consistence to roll out ; then roll out as lozenge 
cakes, to three-sixteenths of an inch in thickness ; then 
cut o'jt three-fourths inch squares and dry them. Dose- - 
For a child one to two years, three-fourths of a cake ; 
four to five years, one cake ; i'rom five to seven, one 
and one-quarter cake ; from seven to ten, one and one- 
half cake ; from ten to twelve, one and three-fourtns cake ; 
twelve to fourteen, two cakes ; from fourteen to seven- 
teen, two and one-quarter cakes ; from seventeen to 
twenty years, and all about that age, two and one-half 
cakes ; but all men above that age three cakes. 

Children may eat them, or they can be shaved off 
very fine and mixed in a little treacle, honey, or pre- 
serves. If, after taking the first dose, they do not 
work as you desire, increase the dose a little. The 
patient to take the medicine twice a week. To be 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WILT, RMMOVXl XT 



239 

No More Corns 



FoH Salm hy Dhuqoiuts BvmmvwHmmm. 



CAN BE FORWARDED BY MAIL TO ANY PART OP 
THE WORLD ON RECEIPT OF PRICE. 



McGale's 



CORN SALVE. 



For the speedy and permanent removal of 
CORNS, BUNIONS and WARTS. 



-•- 

t SAFE ^ PAINLESS ^ Harmless I 

Ml ^ 



'&^ Full Directions with each Box. "^s^ 
PRICE, 15 CENXS. 

B. E McGALE, . Chemist, 

2123 NOTRE DAME ST., 

MONTREAL." 



240 



only 00c. T f TDV'Q PARISIAH 
a Bottle . LUDl ^ HAIR RENEWER 



taken .in the morning, fasting, and to be worked off 
with a little warm tea, water gruel, or warm broth. 
N.B. — Milk must not be used in working them ofif, 
and be careful of catchinjr cold. 



•& 



RHEUMATISM. 

Iiijiammatory Rhciiuiatisui. — Sulphur and saltpetre 
of each one ounce, gum guaiac half an ounce, colchicum 
root or seed, and nutmegs, of each quarter of an ounce ; 
all to be pulverized and mixed with simple syrup or 
molasses two ounces. Dose — One teaspoonful every 
two hours until it moves the bowels rather freely, then 
three or four times daily until cured. 

RHEUMATIC LINIMENT. 

Olive oil, spirits of camphor and chloroform, of each 
two ounces, sassafras oil one teaspoonful. First add the 
oil of sassafras to- the olive oil, then the spirits of cam- 
phor, and shake well together before putting in the 
chloroform, shaking when used, keeping it corked, as the 
chloroform evaporates very fast if left open. Apply 
three or four times daily, rubbing it well, and always 
toward the body. 



I Use McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 
AND ItEMOVE TOUR CORNS 



241 



Qody and Qpoin 



«« 



SlnoelWyoiir'* 
;i\\ Kiniiifiii 
riivHlciaiiH 
Kfi'iiinini-iiil 



VIN MARIANI 



TheoriKiiml FroiicliCooii Whu", 
iinist popiiliirly im(«l toiilc-ntl- 
inuliiut ill lltufiiliils, /'iihlinviil 
Itilijiiiiiis lii.ttitiitioHx cvfiywln'ri'. 



NOURISHES FORTIFIES REFRESHES 




Strength en B 

entire 

system : 

mrst 

Agreeable, 

Effective 

and Lasting- 

RenoVcitor 

of fhe Vitiil 

F;)rces. 




1 followed your ailvi<ie to euro my 
cold ; I toiik hot k'^''^"* with your dcli- 
clouB wiiu!, iliid it eiiiilded iiic to siiin 
Carmkn last cvoiiiiiK. 

Kmma Cai.vi:. 



'I'll my gooil friciul A. jMiiriniii. 
Iipiu'lici'iit discoverer of that adiiiir- 
alde wliir wliii'li has so otteii restoreil 
my strt'iigtli. 

Cii. Gounod, 




Every test, 

strictly on its 

own merits, 

will prove 

'*.s exceptional 

reputation. 

PALATABLE 

AS CHOICEST 

OLD WINES. 

TRIAL WILL 
CONVINCE. 




of all tlio tonics —mid 1 have tried 
ahout all, iiududiii;; the more recent, 
— none ef|ual ' \'in .Mariaiii," so highly 
esteemed l>y the medical profession in 
Kraii'-e and other I'ouiitries, I uss it 
liersonally and for iny ianiily,aiiil pres- 
erihed it duriiiKinorc than20years with 
uiivarving f'atisfa<dion to my; -If antl 
pitieiils. l>i{. Cm. Fauvkl. 

Ulantratetl limh- sent free, address: 



I have heen delijjrhted to find "A''in 
.Niartani " in all the Inrge cities of the 
United States, and it has, as alwayc, 
largely helped togiveme t.hatstrengtli 
so neeessiary in the performaneo ot the 
arduous duties which I liavfj imposed 
upon myself. 1 never full to praise its 
virtues to all my friends, and I h-arlily 
congratulate you upon the suceess 
which you so well deserve 

ivAKAII BKItXIIAnDT. 



LAWRENfE A. WILSON & CO., SOLE AGENTS. MONTREAL. 



lO 



Jeailacliii 



24? 

USE- 



McCALE'8 

Butternut Pills 



2S Cents Per Bnx 



WHOOPING COUGH. 

Syrup. — Onions and garlics, sliced, of each one gill ; 
sweet oil one gill ; stew them in the oil, in a covered 
dish, to obtain the juices ; then strain, and add honey 
one gill ; paregoric and spirits of camphor, of each one- 
half ounce ; bottle and cork tight for use. Dose — For 
a child of two or three years, one teaspoonful three or 
four times daily, or whenever the cough is troublesome, 
increasing or lessening, according to age. 

SNAKE-BITTEN CATTLE. 

Remedy. — Cattle or horses are usually bitten in the 
feet. ¥/hen this is the case, all that is necessary to do 
is to drive them into a mud-hole and keep them there 
for a few hours ; if upon the nose, bind the mud upon the 
place, in such a manner as not to interfere with their 
breathing. And I am perfectly .-atisfied that soft clay 
mud would bean excellent application to snake-bites on 
persons, for I know it to draw out the poisoning from 
ivy, and have been assured that it has done the same for 
snake bites, of pe. sons as well as for cattle. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 



WULX. MMMOVX IX 



2^13 



OARlOfTE 



MISCELLANEOUS 



LIME WATER. 

One of the most useful agents of household economy, 
if rightly understood, is lime water. Its mode of prepar- 
ation is as follows : Put a stone of fresh unslaked lime 
about the size of a half-peck measure, into a large stone 
jar or unpainted pail, and pour over it slowly and care- 
fully (so as not to slaken too rapidly) a tea-kettle full 
(four gallons) of hot water, and stir thoroughly ; let it 
settle, and then stir again two or three times in twenty- 
four hours. Then bottle carefully, all that can be poured 
off in a clear and limpid state. . , 

Uses. — It is often sold by druggists as a remedy for 
children's summer complaints, a teaspoonful being a dose 
ill a cupful of milk, and when diarrhoea is caused by 
acidity of the stomach, it is an excellent remedy, and 
when put into milk gives no unpleasant taste, but rather 
improves the flavor. 

When put into milk that might curdle when heated, 
it will prevent its so doing, and can then be used for 
puddings and pies. A little stirred into cream or milk, 
after a hot day or night, will prevent its turning when 
used for tea or coffee. 



FAMILY WASHING BY THE POUND 

SATISFACTORY AND EtONOMKjAI. 

(Laundry Dept ) The MONTREAL TOILET SUPPLY CO. 
589 DORCHESTER STREET. Telephone 1807 



244 

AFTER THE FAC AND WORRY 
OF A DAY'S WORK 

Johnston's Fluid 5^^^ 

... SETS YOU UP , . . 



It is unequalled in cleansing; bottles or small milk 
vessels, or babies' nursing bottles, as it sweetens and 
purifies without leaving an unpleasant odor or flavor. 

A cupful, or even more, mixed in the sponge of 
bread or cakes made over night, will prevent it from 
souring. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

* 

MRS. A. M. ' 

One ounce of lard, one ounce of spermaceti, one ounce 
of camphor, one ounce of almond oil, one-half cake of 
white wax, melt and turn into moulds. ^ 

COLD CREAM. 

MRS. ANNA MARBLE. 

Four ounces sweet almond oil, two ounces of rose 
water, two ounces of white wax, two ounces of cocoa 
butter, two of spermaceti ; put a bowl in a pan of boiling 
water, cut the spermaceti, white wax, and cocoa butter 
in small pieces, put them in the bowl, also the oil and 
rose water. When melted, stir contents until cold. 

TO KEEP EGGS FOR WINTER USE. 

Take a pint of unslaked lime and a pint of salt ; put 
them into a pail of water ; the eggs must be well cov- 
ered with the mixture. 



EASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use McCALE'S 

CORN SAL.VE 

.i.xii JiF.vay:: to pit coJiJV.f 



345 



LUBY'S "^^^ HAIR 



TO BEAUTIFY TEETH. 
Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of boiling 
^^'ater, and before it is cold add one teaspoonful of spirits 
of camphor; bottle it for use. A teaspoonful of this 
with an equal quantity of tepid water. 

TO WASH CALICO. 

MRS. EDWARD FA.Y. 
Blue calicoes or muslins will retain their color if one 
small teaspoonful of sugar of lead is put into a pail of 
water and the articles washed in the water. 

BLACK CALICOES. 
Wash black percales or calicoe. as usual, rinse in 
water with a strong solution of salt. This will prevent 
black from running, and also colors. 

CLEANING MARBLE. 

MRS. GRAY. 
Dissolve a large lump of Spanish whiting in water 
which has previously dissolved a teaspoonful of washincr 
soda ; take only sufficient water to moisten the whitin" 
and It will become a paste ; with a flannel cloth rub the 
marble well, leaving it on for a while, and repeatin^r the 
process two or three times, if necessary. Wash off'with 
soap and water, then dry the marble well and polish with 
a soft duster. 



YOU HAVE McC ALE'S 

o/ve OORN SALV^ 



WILL IlEMOVE IT 



Liver 
Troubles 



246 

. . . CURED BY USINQ , . , 

McCALE*S 

Butternut Pills 



FOB SALS EVEBrwnEBB 



TO WASH WOOLLEN BLANKETS. 

MRS. J. A. PACKARD. 

Dissolve soap enough to make a good suds in boiling 
water, add a tablespoonful of aqua ammonia ; when 
scalding hot, turn over your blankets. If convenient, use 
a pounder or any way to work thoroughly through the 
suds without rubbing on a board. Rinse well in hot 
water. There is usually soap enough from the first suds 
to make the second soft ; if not, add a little soap and 
ammonia ; and after being put through the wringer, let 
two persons, standing opposite, pull them into shape; 
dry in the sun. White flannels may be washed in the 
same way without shrinking. 

EXCELLENT FAMILY SOAP. 

MRS. F. KNAPP. 

Ingredients. — One box of lye, five pounds of grease, 
one pound of resin, one and one-half gallons of soft water; 
make in an iron pot. When the water boils, put in the 
lye ; when this is dissolved add the grease ; stir till all 
is melted ; then add one pound of resin gradually, and 
boil for an hour and a half ; keep stirring with a stick, 
and add hot water to keep up the original quantity ; pour 
into wet tins, and let it stand f.r twenty-four hours ; cut 
in'.i birs and keep in a dry, warm place for a month. 



^ASE AND 
COMFORT 



Use MoGALE'S 

CORN SALVE 

AND REMOVE YOUR COJtJVS 



247 



• •■«'■ 
31 



(mrlotte 




TABLE OF KITCHEN WEIGHTS AND MFA 

■- SURES. 
FourteaspoonfuLs liquid- one tablespoonful 
^ J^our tablcspoona.ls liquid-one wine-olass^l. or half 

E'ghttablespoonfuls, or two wine-glassfuls liquid-ore 
cupful or one tumblerful. , 

One cupful liquid-two gills, or half a pint 

1 wo cupfuls, or four gills-one pint. 
Two pints— one quart. 

Four quarts— one gallon. 

One tablespoonful butter— one ounce 

ou^c" '"'"" ""''' tablespoonful Cottolene-one 

One rounded tablespoonful flour -half an ounce 
One cupful butter— half a pound 
One rounded cupful Cottolcne-half a pound 
One rounded cupful flour-one-quarter pound! 
Four cupfuls flour-one quart or one pound 

Three cupfuls corn-meal-one pound 
Hutter the size of an egg-two ounces. 

Butter the size of walnut-one ounce. 
len eggs—one pound. 

Two cupfuls granulated sugar-one pound '• ' 

ivvoandone-halfcupfulsnu.veri/cd m.o-n,- 
Twnrnnfn- t ^ '' ^"^'^^ ^^"gai -one pound. 

1 wo cupfu s hrown sugar-thirtccn ounces. 



YOU HAVE 
ONE 



McGALE'S 

OORN SALVE 

WlLI, JtMMOVM IT 



248 

LUNCH PARTY 

* 

Oyster Pie. Boiled Partridge. Cold Ham. 

Sweet Pickles. Sandwiches. 

Pound and Fruit Cake. Pyramids of Wine Jelly. 

Blanc Mange. Snow Jelly. 

Pineapple Flummery. 

Kisses. . Macaroons. Ice Cream. 



Beef Tea, served in small porcelain cups. 
Cold Chicken and Oyster and other forms of Croquettes. 
Chicken Salad. Minced Ham Sandwiches. 

Pascal loped Oysters. 
Tutti Frutti. Chocolate Cream. 

Cake Basket of Mixed Cake. 
Mulled Chocolate. 
Mixed Pickles. Biscuits, etc. 

Ice Cream and Charlottes can either be added or sub- 
stituted ; for twenty guests, allow one gallon. 

COLO LUNCHES FOR WASHING DAYS, OR OTHER 
DAYS OF EXTRA LABOR. 

Lunch No. i. — Cold corn beef, nicely sliced ; baked 
potatoes ; bread, butter, and pickles. Dessert — mince 
pie and cheese. 

Lunch No. 2. — Chicken pie ; baked potatoes ; rolled 
bread or biscuits. Dessert — cake and custard. 

Lunch No. 3. — F"irst Course : Raw Oysters, with 
lemon and crackers. Second Course : Cold veal, with 
jelly and Saratoga potatoes ; bread and butter. Dessert 
— cherry pie with cheese. 

Lunch No. 4. — Casserole of fish, with mushroom 
catsup ; bread and butter. Dessert — pie with cheese. 



249 



. . The . . 



(Jonodion I^abbep ^o, 
of rnontp^ol. 



CAFlfAL $1,500,000. 



[F you Wish to buy the latest 
styles and best quality in 
Rubber Boots and Shoes, see 
that you get the Canadian 
Rubber Co.'s make. 



Factories and Head Office : MONTREAL. 
Branches: TORONTO and WINNIPEG. 



250 




GO 

s a 

a <j 

« S 

-o S 

fl o 

a o 

o sg 
o 
o 

03 



00 



S 



w o 

3 :, 



'^ 5 f, 1 



00 



«>: 
as 

c 



(A 



H - 



.0 



" XI 



c H 
Si ^ 



o 3 



<u 



<u 



S !» 



C3 



O 













rt ^3 
S c 

y S 



M 73 



c 

rt 



> 
rt 



a 









OJ 



rt 



- as 



Q ^ 
H 



o 



rt 

C 

o 
o 



CD 
c 

OS 

u 



c 

U 
U 

Oh ji 

o ^ 

o 



0)19 

0> 



rt 






3 

o 

G 



H 

c 



C/3 < 

QC 3 

<: «»■ 
^? 

O «8 
UJ js 

CXZ .2 
LU S 

^S 

CD _ 

O 

-f- o 

O flt 



c 



c/5 








" ' THE - 



Gpond Tp^'^H ^QiJu3Q9 



• • • 



/S THB 



ii«!i^!.«?''j.!?.e. BAST ftuii f/io WEST. 

m m 

It is the Only Line Running THREE Fast Express Trains Daily 
(except Sundays) between 








It is the Short Line to Ottawa. 

--■•::^:::::::::..:.„;.:..^;;..:::::::;.n^^^^ : 

aT is THU fVR/iAT SCEA'/C AA'/> TaUKIST KOVTH. 
The only Line aflfortiing delightful views of all tht- principal cities anil 
points of interest aloug the picturesque backs of the St. Liiwrenee Klver 
and Shores of Lake Ontario. The only all-rail route from the West to Cacouna, 
Dalhousie, and other Seaside and Sea-batliing Kesorts on the Gulf of the St. 
Lawrence. The direct route to Portland, .Me., Old Orchard Beach, antl all Sea- 
bathing Resorts on the Atlantic Coast. 

It is the only poute to the 

MUSKOKA AND MIDLANP LAKES, 



SOLID EXPRESS TRAINS. 

(TEAM heated and Electric lighted between Montreal and Halifax, via 
Levis and the Intercolonial Kail way, atFordiiig passengers a panoramic 
view of the historic City of Quebec, its fortifications, wolfeV Cove, the 
Plains of Abraham, the Isle of Orleans, the Falls of Montmorency, the unsur- 
passed and mountainous scenery of the Metape<lla Valley, tlie Salmon tishing 
f rounds of the Metapedia and Restigouche Rivers, the Haie de Chaleur, and the 
laurentlan range of mountains on the Gaspe Coast. 



AsU. for Tickets via (Jtrand Trunlc Railxi'ay, and see 
that they read that way. 



nontreal City Ticket Offices: 

143 St James Street and Bonaventure Depot- 

N. J. POWER, G. T. BELL, L. J, SEARGEANT, 

Gen. /'ass. Agent. Asst. Gen. Fass. Agent. Gen, Manager. 



