
/ 



'?? DeSAus 



"^ 



^ 



Shelf No 




3^1^ zjjj: 



k. 



^mr % 






A. NOV 25 



GARDENING A LA MOUE j 

j 

VEGETABLES ' 



WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS. 



' Those excellent cookery books that have made Mrs. De Salis 
an authority in every kitchen that has any pretensions to high art. ' 

Scotsman. 

SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 

Crown 8vo. 15. 6d. 
OYSTERS A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. 
DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY A LA MODE. 

Crown 8vo. is. 6d. 

ENTREES A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. 
PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Crown 

8vo. 15. 6d. 

SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. 

Crown 8vo. is. 6d. 

CAKES AND CONFECTIONS A LA MODE. 

Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. Crown 

Svo. IS. 6d. 

GARDENING A LA MODE. I. Vegetables. 

Crown Svo. 

GARDENING A LA MODE. II. Fruits. Crown 

Svo. 
SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Crown Svo. is. dd. 

DRINKS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES. 

Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

NATIONAL VIANDS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. 
IS. 6d. 

FLORAL DECORATIONS : Suggestions and Descrip- 
tions. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

WRINKLES AND NOTIONS FOR EVERY 
HOUSEHOLD. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

NEW-LAID EGGS: Hints for Amateur Poultry 
Rearers. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 

DOGS : a Manual for Amateurs. Crown Svo. is. 6d. 



London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 
and New York. 



GARDEiNING A LA MODE 



VEGETABLES 



BY 

MRS DE SALIS \ 

I 

AUTHORESS OF 
THE ' A LA MODE ' SERIES OF COOKERY BOOKS, ETC. \ 



With licrbs and suck-like 

Country messes 
Which the neat-handed 

Phi! I is dresses 

RIlLTON 



LONDON 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

AND NEW YORK 

1895 
(J 

All rights reserved 



a^^/0. /r^/ 






^. 



A .fc c< 



PREFACE 



These little manuals on gardening are simply 
intended to help amateurs ; they do not pretend to 
go deeply into the science of Vegetable and Fruit 
cultivation, as there are so many standard works 
on this interesting subject. These are merely 
proposed to be handy little books of reference for 
those persons who do their own gardening in a 
small way, and are the upshot of the well-known 
saying ' Experientia docet,' as when we came to 
live in the country we were such Cockneys, we 
knew absolutely nothing of gardening ; and, as we 
had to make our garden, which was only a field, 
and could not afford an experienced gardener, we 
set to work to learn the art. We bought various 
books, and took in weekly periodicals on the subject, 
and experimented on the advice therein contained 
until we found out for ourselves what succeeded 
best ; and I am proud to say our experiments have 



vi GARDENING 

been crowned with success : these little volumes 1 

are the result of the advice we followed. Of course 

in such abridged works I cannot write all I could j 

wish ; still I hope they will prove of some use to 

my readers. But I recommend those who do their 

own gardening to purchase Johnson's ' Dictionary 

of Gardening ' as a reference ; also Messrs. Sutton's ' 

work on the Culture of Vegetables, and Watts' 

' Orchard and Fruit Garden ' ; and to take in the 

following weeklies — ' The Gardener/ ' Home and I 

Farm/ ' Field, Farm, and Fireside/ each costing 

one penny. 

i 
H. A. DE Salis. j 

Hampton Lea, Sutton. 



GARDENING— VEGETABLES 



ARTICHOKES (GLOBE) 

The artichoke, originally a native of Italy, was 
introduced into England during the reign of Henry 
VIII., and it is generally believed that the name 
refers to the part which is not eaten, and which is 
called * the choke,' though that is quite a fallacy, as 
it is merely the English way of spelling its French 
name, artzchaut, which is explained by old writers, 
who say it is a corruption of its Arabic name 
{alcocalos)^ from its heads being shaped like a pine- 
apple. 

Artichokes are strong growing plants, and will 
grow almost in any kind of soil as long as it is 
properly prepared ; but, though they prefer a good 
rich garden soil, the ground should be manured 
and trenched in the middle of January, and the 
land should be broken up deeply and left with a 
rough surface till the end of March, then forked 
over, and the suckers planted (suckers are better 
than seeds) early in April four feet apart. The 
suckers are best when about nine inches long. 
Good manure should be placed between the rows 

B 



2 GARDENING 

every autumn, and the plants covered with straw in 
severe weather in the winter. 

To prepare them for planting, the brown hard 
part by which they are attached to the parent stem 
must be removed, and the large outside leaves 
should be taken off so that the heart appears 
above them. If the weather is favourable, it is a 
good plan to put them into a pan of water for a 
i^wf hours before they are planted, especially if they 
have been separated from the parent stem for some 
time. 

A large flower-pot should be placed over each, 
and they should be watered liberally every evening 
till the flower heads appear. About June all 
side shoots should be cut off, and all the care they 
will require during the summer is the frequent use 
of the hoe and occasionally a mulching of liquid 
manure. The plants will produce a succession of 
heads from July to October. In the autumn cut 
down the stalks which have produced heads, and 
place a thick covering of litter about the stems 
and roots to exclude frost. 

One has to guard against the ravages of an 
insect called Cassida viridis^ a very small beetle 
with a black and green body. 

Globe artichokes are not adapted for small 
gardens, as they take up such an amount of room. 

There are two varieties, the green globe and the 
purple globe. In the latter the heads are tinged 
with purple, and the scales curved inwards and 
compactly. 



VEGETABLES 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 

Artichokes a la Barigoule 

Prepare and blanch four artichokes, take out the inside, 
squeeze the water out, and season them with a pinch of salt 
and one small pinch of pepper. Put six tablespoonfuls of oil in 
the frying-pan and fry the top of the leaves. Prepare one gill 
of ' fines herbes ' as for sauce. Put into a quart stewpan four 
ounces of grated bacon, quarter of an ounce of butter, quarter 
of an ounce of flour, one gill of broth, and the gill of ' fines 
herbes.' Stir over the fire for five minutes ; put a fourth part of 
this stuffing into each artichoke ; place a thin slice of bacon 
two inches square on the top of each, tie round with string to 
keep them in shape ; put them into a saute pan with two gills 
of stock ; bake in the oven for twenty minutes ; ascertain if 
done ; then dish up and serve. 

Artichokes a I'ltaHenne 

These must be cut into quarters and boiled in water enough 
to enable them to swim with ease, with a little salt and 
butter. When done, drain them well and lay them all round 
the dish with the leaxes outwards. Then take some Italian 
sauce, with which mix a small piece of butter, and pour the 
sauce over the part that is to be eaten, but not over the 
leaves. 

Artichokes a la Proven9ale 

Choose some artichokes that are very tender, cut them 
into four quarters, pare them nicely, and rub them over with 
lemon, that they may preserve their white colour. Throw 
them into cold water, the quantity to be in proportion to the 
size of the dish in which they are to be served. Trim a stew- 
pan with a little olive oil or butter, salt, and pepper, then 
put the artichokes all round, the bottoms downward, and set 
the whole to bake in a moderately hot oven. When done, 
drain the artichokes and serve them up with French melted 

B 2 



4 GARDENING 

butter on them, to which add a httle glaze and the juice of a 
lemon ; or some sauce espagnole worked with a small lump 
of butter and the juice of a lemon. 

ARTICHOKES (JERUSALEM) 

These are a tuberous-rooted variety, and are 
planted like potatoes in rows four feet apart in 
any soil, and succeed well in any odd part of 
the garden. The tubers will keep good in the 
ground during the winter, and may be dug up as 
required. Jerusalem artichokes are considered very 
nutritious, and' certainly they are very delicious, 
and their flavour is very useful in seasoning many 
dishes. 

The only attention Jerusalem artichokes require 
is an occasional hoeing to loosen the surface, and 
draw a little of the earth up round the stems. In 
August the stems should be cut off about the 
middle, so that they get more air and light. 

They can be taken up in October, or as soon 
as their stems have withered entirely, and put into 
sand to preserve them for winter use. 

In many situations the stems of these plants 
form a very useful screen during the summer and 
autumn. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 

Jerusalem Artichokes a la Reine 

Wash and wipe the artichokes, cut off one end of each 
quite flat, and trim the other into a point ; boil them in milk 
and water, lift them out the instant they are done, place 
them upright in the dish in which they are to be served, and 
sauce them with a good bechamel, or with nearly half a pint 
of cream thickened with a dessertspoonful of flour mixed 



VEGETABLES 5 

with one and a half ounces of butter and seasoned with a httle 
mace and some salt. When cream cannot be procured, use 
new milk and increase the proportion of flour and butter. 

Jerusalem Artichokes Fried 

Boil them in plenty of water for about twenty minutes. 
Beat two eggs, season two ounces of fine crumbs of bread 
with a grain of pepper, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, and a 
tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese ; dip the artichokes into 
the ^<g<g and strew them over with the crumbs ; fry in butter 
to a pale brown colour eight minutes, and serve uncovered. 



ASPARAGUS 

Asparagus was originally a wild sea-coast plant, 
is a native of Great Britain, and formerly grew 
wild in many parts of England and Scotland, but 
is now to be found all over the world, and is grown 
more largely in France than in other countries, 
large quantities being raised among the vines. It 
was a very favourite vegetable with the ancient 
Romans. 

Asparagus is grown from seed, and it does not 
do well in a heavy soil. The ground should be 
prepared in February, and left till March roughly 
exposed to the weather ; then, after the frost has 
worked upon it, it should have a good top dressing 
with sand, clay, burnt earth, leaf mould, soot, also 
old stable manure, and worked in well, and the 
bed left so that the surface may become dry and 
sweet. A very excellent thing for an asparagus 
bed is to get sea-sand and plenty of seaweed to dress 
it with. The seeds should be sewn thinly about 
the end of March. 



6 GARDENING 

To make an asparagus bed, a good dressing of 
manure should be first applied on the soil, and then 
deeply trenched to a depth of three feet, leaving 
all the best soil at the bottom of the trench, when 
it should be broken up with a fork and then well 
drained. Asparagus beds cannot be too much 
manured ; it takes three years to raise asparagus 
from seed, therefore it is advisable for those who 
cannot wait so long to procure plants of three or 
four years' growth, and even then the asparagus 
should not be attempted to be cut its first year. 
Where seed is planted it should be drilled shallowly 
in fine mould and planted ten inches apart ; and all 
that is necessary for the first year is to keep the 
seeds down, and the next year, about April, the 
plants must be thinned out to nine inches apart, 
and the seedlings can be used to make another bed 
if required. 

For the first two years it should be allowed to 
run to stalk. 

In planting asparagus the greatest care is neces- 
sary, as the roots are so very delicate, and should 
be carefully spread out and the crowns of the plants 
be left just visible above the surface. 

A writer of great experience says that ' not one 
gardener in twenty properly manages asparagus 
beds, as the soil should not be touched with fork or 
hoe, for fear of bruising the plants. 

' It is most necessary to keep all weeds down. 
Salt, if given liberally three times a year, will effect 
this, besides being a first-rate fertiliser. Proper 
knives are sold for cutting asparagus, as great care 
is required in cutting it, so as to prevent wounding 
the plants by cutting invisible heads. Cutting may 
commence as soon as the heads are high enough to 



VEGETABLES 7 

cut, and after June the stems will go to seed till 
the autumn, when those which are ripe should be 
cut down and the berries sprinkled over the beds 
and the stems cut off.' 

The beds must be then arranged for the winter 
by dressing them with salt and good short stable 
manure, and over that some good rich soil, and 
flattened evenly with the back of the spade, and 
in the spring should have another dressing of salt, 
and the soil and manure left on. 

The Battersea and Connover's Colossal are the 
favourite kinds to sow or plant, but the Argenteuil 
early purple and late purple are becoming very 
popular, and are cultivated in Argenteuil expressly 
for the French and English markets. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 

To cook asparagus it should be arranged in bundles, the 
heads together, and the tough part of the stalk should be 
removed before cooking. The stalks should be carefully 
washed, then tied together and put into boiling salted water 
deep enough to cover them. There is now what is termed 
an asparagus kettle, which is really a necessity to cook 
asparagus properly. The bundle is laid on a drainer, which 
fits into the kettle, and the cook is enabled to lift the 
cooked asparagus out of the water without breaking the 
heads. One or two tablespoonfuls of vinegar are some- 
times put in the water : it helps to keep the green colour of 
the vegetable. The time for cooking it varies according to 
its age and freshness ; from ten minutes to half an hour is 
about the usual time. Where there is no proper asparagus 
kettle the asparagus should be stood up in the saucepan, 
so that the green tops will be at least an inch above the 
surface, that the stalks may be well cooked before the heads 
are broken. 



8 GARDENING 

When cooked they should be thoroughly drained and 
placed on a silver or china drainer in the dish in which 
they are to be served. There are now sold asparagus 
dishes, a kind of rack in electro-ware, which are most handy 
as well as ornamental. 

Asparagus and Eggs 

Cut cold boiled asparagus into small pieces, put them into 
a buttered baking dish, season well, and drop eggs over the 
top without beating, and bake till the eggs are cooked. 

Asparagus (Italian Fashion) 

Take some asparagus, break them into pieces, then boil 
them soft, and drain the water off ; take a little oil, water, 
and vinegar, let it boil, season it with pepper and salt, throw 
in the asparagus, and thicken with the white of eggs. 
Endive done this way is good ; green peas done as above 
are very good, only add a lettuce cut small and two or three 
onions, and leave out the eggs. 

Belgian Asparagus 

Boil in the usual way as much asparagus as required, 
and arrange it neatly on a folded napkin in a flat dish. Boil 
some eggs hard (allowing one ^%<g to each person), and 
divide them into halves lengthwise. Border the asparagus 
with these, placing them with the yolks upwards. Serve 
this dish very hot, and send to table with it a sufficient 
quantity of butter, simply melted and made quite hot, but 
without any thickening. 



AUBERGINES 

This vegetable is not yet common in England, 
but it is becoming more generally appreciated, as 



VEGETABLES g 

the fruit makes many delicious dishes. Aubergines 
are the fruits of the egg-plant. Seeds may be sown 
in heat, in the same manner as vegetable marrows, 
and planted out in a sunny spot. In the summer 
the soil must be rich. There are two kinds, but, 
for table use, Melongena, which is the purple, is the 
one adapted for table culture. In every respect 
treat as for marrows. Such appetising dishes are 
produced from this vegetable that it is surprising it 
is not more grown in this country, and if there be 
space enough, I recommend all amateurs to try it. 

EEC/FES FOE COOKING 
Aubergines Farcies 

Cut the aubergines down the middle lengthwise, scoop 
out the inside, taking care not to break the skin. What 
has been scooped out put into a stewpan with a couple of 
ounces of butter ; let it simmer till soft ; mash it up with a 
few breadcrumbs, a couple of hard-boiled eggs run through 
a wire sieve, a little pounded chicken, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Mix thoroughly, and stuff the aubergines with it, 
and brush over with beaten ^g'g ; strew some crumbs on the 
top, and put a few dabs of butter on each. Bake in the 
oven a few minutes, till they become a nice brown colour ; 
then serve, and garnish with tufts of parsley. (Mrs. Grace 
Johnson.) 

Aubergines (Another Way) 

Put the aubergines into the oven to roast, but they must 
not burn ; when soft, take them out, and cut them through ; 
likewise take out the inside carefully, mash it with butter, 
pepper, and salt ; fill in the skins again, and serve on a piece 
of fried bread. Garnish the tops with minced hard-boiled 
eggs and tufts of parsley. (Mrs. Grace Johnson.) 



lo GARDENING 

Aubergines a la Parmesan 

Peel the aubergines, cut them up into slices, sprinkle them 
over with salt, drain, and fry them quickly until ;/^«^r/y done, 
season, and cover them with white sauce ; then put the 
slices in layers in a white china fire-proof dish, and sprinkle 
each layer with Parmesan cheese ; baste with melted butter 
and put the dish into a moderate oven for a quarter of an 
hour. (Dubois.) 

Aubergines a la Turque 

Cut some aubergines into slices about half an inch thick, 
sprinkle them with salt, and let them remain about an hour. 
Put a couple of ounces of flour into a basin, and mix it to a 
smooth paste with a little water, but not too thick. Then 
dip the pieces of aubergine into it, and fry them in butter 
till a nice golden colour ; when done, take them out, drain, 
and dish up. 

BALM 

This herb thrives in any ordinary garden soil, 
and is propagated by division in the spring. 

BASIL 

There are two kinds — the common, or sweet, 
and the bush basil. March is the best time for 
sowing in a slight hot bed, and in May it can be 
planted out in a warm border in light soil. 

BEANS (BROAD OR WINDSOR) 

The bean is said to be a native of Egypt, and 
is supposed to have been brought to England by 
tlic Romans. 



VEGETABLES ii 

The priests of Egypt held it a crime even to 
look at beans ; the very sight of them was unclean. 
Pythagoras forbade his disciples to eat beans 
because they were formed of the rotten ooze out of 
which man was created. The Romans ate beans 
at funerals with awe, from the idea that the souls of 
the dead were in them. 

These beans are extremely nutritious, and, when 
gathered young and nicely cooked, are very diges- 
tible. 

They succeed best in a deep, stiff, loamy, 
moderately rich soil, and, once the seed is sown, 
require little attention beyond earthing up the 
plants well by drawing the soil freely against them 
on either side when the young plants are a few 
inches high. They should be planted in single 
rows, with a distance of six to twelve inches from 
plant to plant. The dwarfs should have less space 
between them than the tall varieties. 

The Long-pod varieties should be sown in 
February and March for early crops. 

Immediately the plants have ceased blooming 
pinch off the points beyond the blooms, and if the 
weather is very dry, damp the blooms ever with 
water from a syringe. Broad beans are subject to 
the attacks of the black fly. The best preventive 
of this pest is early planting and pinching out the 
points of the plant. 

Norfolk Giant, Giant Seville Long Pod, and 
Green Windsor are some of the best sorts. 



12 GARDENING 

RECIPE FOR COOKING 
Broad Beans au Jus 

Take a sufficient quantity of young beans ready shelled, 
and put them on to boil with a great deal of salt and water ; 
when nearly done drain them, and put them into a stewpan 
with a piece of butter, some minced parsley, and chives ; 
toss them well in the butter ; add three spoonfuls of 
espagnole sauce, and let them simmer ; then skim off the fat, 
reduce the sauce, and serve. 

BUTTER BEANS 

Butter, or wax-pod, beans hail from America, 
but are seldom found here. Yet they afford a nice 
variety, and it is well to give them a trial. Their 
specialty is that the pods are of a lovely golden 
colour with a semitransparent appearance, and, if 
gathered young, are perfectly stringless, and should 
be cooked whole without being sliced at all. The 
cultivation of this bean is exactly the same as that 
of the French and Runner Beans. The best sorts 
are the Dwarf Golden Butter, the climbing Mont 
d'Or, and the dwarf German Black Wax. 



FRENCH OR KIDNEY BEANS 

The dwarf kidney bean was originally a native of 
India, and was introduced before the time of Gerard. 

These beans require deep rich soil and a good 
amount of moisture with a warm sunny aspect. 
Sow in the open ground in May, as it is not safe to 
"•row them before unless the seeds have been sown 



VEGETABLES 13 

in frames beforehand. The seeds should be sown 
thinly or in double rows about four inches apart. 
The best course is to allow a few extra seeds for 
thinning, especially for the earliest crop. 

The great thing in procuring really prolific and 
healthy French beans is not to grudge manure and 
to water with soot-water occasionally. Red spiders 
are very fond of these plants, and their ravages 
cannot be stayed if the plants are starved. The 
pods will turn yellow and drop off. 

Should many gross leaves form and young 
shoots push through them, let both be neatly 
pinched off so as to admit more light to the roots 
and assure more pods and less foliage. Pick off all 
beans as soon as they become large enough to use. 

Canadian Wonder is one of the finest kinds ; 
Ne Plus Ultra and Negro Long Pod are also very 
good, though, of course, there are several other 
good varieties ; but I have found the three quoted 
the best. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 
French Beans a la Parisienne 

Remove all fibres from some French beans, break off the 
ends, boil them in boiling water, then toss them in melted 
butter, seasoned with chopped chives and parsnips. Stir in 
a dessertspoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, and a gill of white 
stock. Reduce the sauce, thicken with two yolks of eggs, 
and flavour with a few drops of lemon juice just before 
serving. 

French Beans a la Poulette 

Pick one pound of French beans, put them into a gallon 
stewpan with three quarts of boiling water and one pinch of 
salt, and boil till tender. Put into a two-quart stewpan one 



14 GARDENING 

ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour, stir over the fire for 
three minutes, then add three gills of water and one pinch of 
salt ; boil for ten minutes, thicken with the yolks of two eggs 
and half an ounce of butter, drain the beans ; put them into 
the sauce with half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; 
mix, and serve. 

RUNNER BEANS (SCARLET RUNNERS) 

The scarlet runner is a native of South America, 
and was not introduced till 1633, when it was first 
cultivated in the flower gardens only as an orna- 
mental plant. 

These beans, like the French, require a good 
rich soil, but the soil should be manured the 
previous autumn, as, if freshly manured, the plants 
will go mostly into wood and leaves. The seeds 
should be sown in a sunny situation about the end 
of May in a soil that has been trenched three feet 
in depth. Scarlet runners never succeed in a poor 
soil. Sowings made somewhat more thickly than 
ordinary are advisable, as it forwards and increases 
the crop. 

The stakes or poles should be placed into the 
ground at a distance of two feet from each other 
before the seeds are put in, and around each pole 
plant six beans two inches deep. When about a 
foot high the plants must be well earthed up and 
tied loosely round the pole, winding them, in their 
natural way of climbing, from left to right. A 
very pretty way of growing them, where there is 
space enough, is to put the stakes down each side 
of a path, and when they have grown up they make 
a shady archway, and look very ornamental with 
white and red blossoms. 



VEGETABLES 15 

In very dry weather the roots ought to have an 
occasional soaking with water or Hquid manure, 
and if, from the same cause, the pods fail to set, a 
good overhead syringing night and morning will 
generally enable them to do so. 

Runners may be grown without sticks by 
pinching out the points of the shoots several times 
beyond the third or fourth leaf 

The best sorts to grow are Painted Lady and 
Sutton's Champion and the Czar ; Daniel's Giant 
is also very fine. 

Scarlet runners may be cooked in any way 
French beans are. 

BEETROOT 

This was a native of the sea-coast on the south 
of Europe, and was introduced into England in 
1656. This vegetable likes the same rich, deep 
soil, and open and sunny situation, as the carrot. 
Soot of any kind or burnt material, salt, and 
nitrate of soda are the best manures for it, and 
should be applied to the soil before sowing, or 
as a top dressing after the plants are up. The 
ground should be dug two spades deep, and the 
whole of the manure intended for it should be put 
in with the bottom spit, so that it may be buried 
twelve inches within the ground. An early sowing 
should be made in April and a main sowing the 
first week in May. It is most necessary that the 
seed should not be put in till the severe frosts are 
over. The seed is best sown in drills a foot apart 
and an inch deep. 

The seedlings should be thinned out about six 
or eight inches between the plants at least. The 



i6 GARDENING 

hoe should be occasionally used to give them air as 
well as to destroy any weeds. October is the time 
for taking it up for use as it is wanted, but it is 
best to wait till November or the beginning of 
December to take it up entirely, when it should be 
buried in sand or sifted coal ashes in alternate 
layers under shelter, after removing the leaves and 
fibrous roots. Great care must be exercised in 
taking it up not to break the roots, as, if any of the 
very smallest fibres are injured, the roots bleed, and 
both colour and quality suffer, as it will become a 
dingy whitish pink instead of a brilliant dark red. 

Some of the best kinds are Dell's Crimson and 
Nutting's Dwarf Red. The former is very compact 
in growth and delicate in quality. There is a new 
variety called Beet Cheltenham Green Top, which 
has been very highly spoken of. It has green 
foliage, and is smaller than most other kinds. The 
root is a very deep shade of purple black, and the 
flavour very delicious. 

RECIPE FOR COOKING 
Beetroot a la Creme 

Peel a beetroot and cut it into slices, then cook it very 
slowly in a melted butter sauce or white bechamel. Season 
wdth pepper and salt, and serve. 

BORAGE 

This is a very robust herb, though it prefers a 
light warm soil, but not rich, and an open situation. 
It is best sown in March and two or three times suc- 
cessively during the season, in shallow drills, about 



VEGETABLES 



17 



twelve inches apart, and, when about six weeks' 
growth, thinned out to eight or nine inches apart. 

To gather the seed : After the flowering is over 
and the seed is perfectly ripe the stalks should be 
gathered and dried thoroughly, when the seeds 
can be rubbed out. Borage seeds will fly all over 
the place, and often in the next year clumps of 
borage will appear in different parts of the garden. 

Borage is principally cultivated for the flavour- 
ing of claret and other cups. 

BORECOLE {see SCOTCH KALE) 

BROCCOLI 

This vegetable is said to have emanated from 
Italy. There are now ten or twelve distinct kinds 
of broccoli at least, but all have sprung from the 
two kinds originally brought over — the purple and 
the green. 

The soil should be very rich and the ground 
deeply trenched and manured. 

The first sowing should be made early in March 
in a gentle heat, and if there be space, other sow- 
ings about once a fortnight, beginning the second 
week in April. The seedlings should be trans- 
planted thickly at distances of about five inches 
apart as soon as they become large enough. They 
must be transplanted into drill rows at distances of 
three feet apart, and a similar distance allowed 
between each plant in the row. 

They require good waterings during all dry 
weather. Frost is a great enemy to this vegetable, 
and, if severe, will injure it before any usable hearts 

C 



i8 GARDENING 

are produced : these are always in danger when the 
thermometer falls to lo degrees, except when 
sheltered by snow ; therefore the late autumn kinds 
should always be protected by means of bracken, 
fern, straw, &c., at the approach of frost 

Immediately the 'flower' is seen through the 
leaves the heads for use must be cut immediately. 
Sprouting broccoli should have the chief head cut 
off as soon as it is seen to have produced the 
necessary bulk. The best kinds are Midwinter 
Snows and Winter White for autumn use, Leam- 
ington for early spring, and Sutton's Dwarf White, 
followed with Carter's Summer Late Queen and 
Sutton's Bouquet. 

There are two kinds of sprouting broccoli — 
purple and white. The purple is the hardier and 
far more productive, and if sown at periods from 
April to the end of June will be in use from 
November to xA.pril ; the flavour is unequalled. 
North's early purple is one of the best kinds. 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

These are one of the most useful of winter vege- 
tables, and should be sown in frames in February 
or in shallow boxes placed on a greenhouse shelf, 
and for succession in April in the open ground, 
then early in March the plants should be pricked 
out The soil should be rich and light, and re- 
quires liberal manuring. 

The seeds are best procured direct from Brus- 
sels. They should be planted one foot apart every 
way. They are never good until there has been 
some frost upon them, and therefore should not be 



VEGETABLES 



19 



cut till then. The leaves should not be cut before 
the sprouts are formed, but the crowns should be 
pinched out in September, so that the whole 
strength may be thrown into the sprouts. 

The best kinds are Scrymger's Giant and 
Dalkeith. 

Later sowings should be made in March, April 
or even as late as May for successional supplies, but 
where there are only small gardens it is best to buy 
the young plants and plant them out. The ground 
should be deeply worked and made very firm , and 
should not be very rich with fresh manure, or the 
growth will be too rapid and soft to endure severe 
weather. In rich loamy soils the plants should be 
placed two feet apart in rows from two feet to two 
and a half feet, but in shallow or poor ground which 
is only worked to the depth of a single spade, a 
spade of eighteen inches one way and two feet the 
other will be sufficient. Always begin cutting the 
sprouts from the bottom, and after all the sprouts 
are gathered, the heads may be cut off, as they 
form a very excellent dish. The best kinds are 
Scrymger's Giant, the Dalkeith, the Aigburth, also 
Wroxton, and Sutton's Exhibition. 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Brussels Sprouts au Jus 

Boil them a few minutes in water, and then stew them 
till tender in some good gravy with a httle salt and pepper. 
They may also be served with a white sauce. Boil them 
first, and then top them in a frying-pan with a little butter. 
They must not brown. 

c: 2 



20 GARDENING 

Sprouts a la Fran9aise 

Trim the sprouts, and place them into sahed water, and 
cook them in a saucepan with the cover off. When cooked, 
drain them as dry as possible, and to each pound of them 
allow an ounce of melted butter, and when it is boiling lay 
it on the sprouts, and let them cook for five minutes on the 
side of the fire, shaking the pan constantly ; then serve as 
hot as possible. 

BURNET 

is a hardy plant possessing both the odour and 
flavour of cucumbers. It can be sown in any light 
soil in March or April and then thinned out to 
six inches apart. 

CABBAGE 

The cabbage in its wild state is biennial, and 
grows naturally on the sea coast in different parts 
of England, and, according to Mrs. Loudon, belongs 
to the same genus as broccoli, cauliflowers, Scotch 
or German greens, brussels sprouts and savoys, and 
not only to one genus, but are actual varieties of 
one of the species of the genus, viz., Brassica 
oleracea, and that the turnip and Swedish turnip 
belong to other species of the same genus. 

The word * cabbage ' means a firm head or ball 
of leaves folded closely over each other. 

All cabbages require a rich, well-worked soil, 
which should be constantly hoed after the seed is 
sown. The early varieties should be sown thinly 
in frames in March, and the seed just covered 
lightly over with the soil, and the frame kept 
dark and closed till the plants come up, when 



VEGETABLES 21 

the frames can be opened in the daytime if 
the weather is favourable, and later on cautiously 
during the night They should be well watered 
with tepid water when dry, and thinned out, so that 
they should not touch one another. 

Always press the soil well down after planting. 
Seed can be sown in the open ground in April, and 
will be ready to thin out in the middle of June. 
Savoys can also be repeated in the middle of July 
to the middle of August. 

When ready for planting, the smaller grow- 
ing varieties should be set eighteen inches apart 
in the rows, with the same distance between, but 
the larger growing sorts must be planted two feet. 
They require frequent hoeing. 

It is very necessary that all old stumps of 
cabbages should be cleared away and burned, and 
the ashes returned to the ground. This is a great 
preventive to clubbing, as great numbers of larvae 
are thus destroyed. 

Cabbages are often attacked by caterpillars of 
the common dart moth ; they will hide under clods 
and in cracks in the earth, and by watering round 
the plants thoroughly with soapy water they will 
often show themselves. Soot scattered round the 
plants and chopped in with a hoe will keep these 
pests at bay. Cabbages are also liable to mildew 
and ambury, and many insects, such as aphis 
mamestra, cabbage fly and cabbage butterfly, 
cabbage moths, and cabbage garden pebble moths. 

Ambury is also called club root, and appears in 
the shape of a wart on the stem close to the roots, 
which contains a white maggot, the larvae of the 
weevil. The wart should be removed and the plant 
placed back in the earth. This pest mostly attacks 



22 GARDENING 

the cabbage when grown for successive years on 
the same soil, often whole rows of cabbages are 
considerably damaged by them and slugs. Soot 
and lime lightly forked into the ground previous to 
peaching and placed round the roots is a great 
preventive of this disease, and in planting out it 
is also an excellent plan to dip the roots in a 
puddle made of soot, lime, and soil. All excres- 
cences should be pinched before planting, as they 
invariably hold a maggot. The cabbage moth or 
mamestra haunts the gardens in May and June, in 
the evening time. The caterpillar of it is green, 
marked with a dark stripe down the back and a 
yellowish one down each side, and is to be found 
in July, August, and September feeding upon the 
hearts of cabbages. 

The ' Gardeners' Chronicle ' recommends the 
handpicking of the caterpillars as the only cure. 

The cabbage fly is the parent of a maggot which 
causes fearful havoc among them, and when the 
cabbages become yellow in colour, and droop at 
midday from the effects of the sun, the fly is 
doing its worst, and the plants should be taken up 
and burnt, and lime put into the holes. When 
cabbages are cut, the stem should be cut crosswise, 
and then innumerable young sprouts will form, 
which make very tender eating. 

The best kinds to grow are : — 

Early York — Good and small ; requires good 
cultivation and to be grown quickly. 

Enfield Market — A very good cabbage. 

Ellam's Early — The finest of the small early 
class, very dwarf 

Early Rainham— Early fine cabbage, rather large. 



VEGETABLES 23 

St. John's Day — Good. 

Sutton's Imperial — Very good all round cabbage. 

Sugarloaf — One of the best for late sowing. 

Wenningstadt — Very large, produces firm hearts 
of a conical shape and superior quality. 

Pomeranian — Tall and tender, producing very 
solid tapering heads. 

Hippocrates used cabbage very much for 
medicinal purposes. When any of his patients was 
seized with colic he always prescribed a dish of boiled 
cabbage with salt. Erasistratus considered it as a 
sovereign remedy for paralysis, and Pythagoras wrote 
books on the marvellous virtues of the cabbage. 

Coleworts. — Coleworts are young cabbages 
gathered before they form a head, and are generally 
sown in June or July for autumn, winter, or early 
spring. 

As they are always eaten young it is not neces- 
sary to plant them more than ten inches apart 
every way ; and when they are gathered the stalks 
are pulled up and thrown away. In every respect 
they should be treated the same as cabbages. 
Rosette Colewort is one of the best varieties. 

Savoy Cabbage. — These are large cabbages 
with wrinkled leaves, and should be sown at the 
end of February, when the plants should be ready 
to prick out in April and for planting out at the end 
of May, and then another sowing in the middle of 
March, pricked out in May, and planted in June ; 
these are for autumn and early winter supplies ; for 
the main crop they must be sown at the end of 
April or early in May, and pricked and planted out 
after similar intervals when required for winter and 
spring use. 



24 GARDENING 

The culture is the same as that of cabbages, 
except that they should be planted two feet apart 
every way. To prevent clubbing, deep culture and 
frequent changing of crops are the greatest safe- 
guard. Dip the roots of all young plants into a lye 
formed of cow-dung, wood, ashes, &c., just before 
planting them into their winter quarters. Lime 
and soot sprinkled amongst the seedling plants 
when very young often prevent pests from attacking 
them as it does when small. In the cultivation of 
all cabbages one has to guard against the depreda- 
tions of the cabbage butterfly, which are especially 
destructive in the larva state. These caterpillars 
are soft, of a pale whitish green, and very active ; 
the chrysalis is green, and looks like a swathed-up 
mummy. The best sort of Savoys to grow are, for 
small gardens, Sutton's Tom Thumb, the Dwarf 
Green Curled, and Dwarf Ulm. Sutton's Golden 
Globe is also a very fine sort, with bright golden 
coloured hearts. Norwegian is a very good variety 
for cold climates and late use. 

There are two other kinds of cabbage much 
liked, the Couve Tronchuda, which is a Portuguese 
cabbage, and the Chou de Burghley, which origin- 
ated by crossing a cabbage with a broccoli. The 
seeds of these are sown from February to April, 
and require a rich soil with plenty of space, as they 
have very large leaves, the midribs of which are 
cooked in the same way as sea kale. These seeds 
are to be procured at Sutton's. 

Red Cabbage. — The cultivation is the same as 
for other cabbages. The best sorts are Sutton's 
Dwarf Blood Red and New Early Red Nonpareil. 
They should not be gathered till quite hard, and 
have been touched by frost. 



VEGETABLES 



25 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 

Cabbage Ragout 

Take the half of a middle-sized cabbage, boil it for half 
an hour, and then change it in cold water ; squeeze it well, 
and take out the heart ; cut the cabbage into small pieces, 
and put it into a stevvpan, with a slice of good butter, turn it a 
few times over the fire, and shake in some flour, put in suf- 
ficient gravy to give colour to the ragout, then let it boil over 
a slow fire until the cabbage is done and reduced to a thick 
sauce ; season it with salt, a little coarse pepper, a little 
grated nutmeg, and serve under any roast meat or stewed 
sausages. 

Chou a la Bourgeoise 

Boil a whole cabbage, well cleaned, for a quarter of an 
hour ; lay it in cold water ; when cold, take it out and 
squeeze it dry ; open the leaves carefully, and between each 
put a little veal forcemeat ; tie all together with string, 
and stew it in as much broth as will cover the cabbage, with 
salt, pepper, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, an onion, carrot, and 
parsnip ; also add two or three cloves. When stewed 
enough, press it gently with a clean cloth, remove the 
string, cut it into halves, and serve with sauce espagnole, 
poured hot over it. 

Chou Rouge au Vin 

Slice finely a red cabbage, blanch it in boiling water, and 
drain. Cut some bacon and chop it up small, and put it 
into a stewpan with some butter, and, when hot, place in 
the shredded cabbage with some good stock and some 
sauterne or chablis ; when quite tender it is done, and can 
be served. 



26 GARDENING 



Red Cabbage a TAllemagne 

Wash, cut up, and drain a red cabbage ; put it into a 
stewpan with a good-sized piece of butter, and fry it sHghtly 
then add a cupful of good gravy, salt and pepper, a spoonful 
of good brown vinegar, and stew gently till tender. 



CAPSICUMS 

These must be sown on a hot bed at the begin- 
ning of April, or can be raised on a warm boiler 
under handglasses, but then the sowing must not 
take place till towards the end of May. The 
young plants should be thinned to four inches 
apart, when they have still their seed-leaves, and 
plant in 4-inch pots, three in each, and keep in 
a moderate heat, shaded from the noonday sun 
and watered slightly with tepid water till they have 
taken root. 

Air must be admitted freely to prevent their 
being drawn, and as May advances they must be 
gradually exposed to the sun by taking away the 
glasses in the daytime and leaving them by degrees 
open of an evening, then early in June they will be 
ready to plant out two feet apart, screened from 
the sun, and well watered till rooted, and the water- 
ing should be continued in dry weather. The 
blossom appears in July or early in August, when 
the pods will be ready to gather for pickhng at the 
end of August. When in flower they are very 
ornamental and look well in a conservatory, and 
are grown for both use and ornament : some are 
red and some yellow. 

Sutton's Erect-fruiting is one of the best, being 



VFAIETABLES 27 

very ornamental, its colour a deep crimson. Red 
Cherry and Red Giant are also very fine. Of the 
yellow variety Golden Dav/n and Prince of Wales 
are the best. 



RECIPE 
To Pickle Capsicums 

The capsicums should be put into a jar, and covered 
with boiling vinegar, allowing a good teaspoonful of salt and 
half an ounce of powdered mace to every quart of vinegar. 
When cold, tie dov/n closely with a bladder. They will be 
ready to use in five or six weeks. (Cassell.) 

CARDOONS, or SPANISH ARTICHOKE 

These are natives of Candia, and require a light, 
rich, moist, stcmty soil, dug deep and well pulverised. 

The seed should be sown at the end of April 
for an early crop, and a later one in June. Trenches 
should be made for it the same as for celery, and the 
seed arranged in groups of intervals of fifteen inches 
in the rows, and well supplied with water. When 
about a month old, the seedlings should be thinned 
out to four inches apart ; when advanced enough to 
be planted out, they must then be taken up care- 
fully, and the long straggling leaves removed. When 
the plants are fully grown, w^hich will be in August 
for the first sowing, and in October for the second, 
the leaves must be drawn together and surrounded 
with hay or straw bands to blanch them, and they 
must be earthed up like celery, which must be done 
in dry weather. It takes about ten weeks to blanch 
them. In severe weather litter should be thrown 



28 GARDENING 

over them to preserve them through the winter. 
The stalks of the inner leaves are used for stews, 
soups, and salads. If these cardoons cannot be left 
in the ground for want of space, they should be 
placed in a cellar, stuck in beds of sand until the 
stalks are bleached. 

The spineless leaved Spanish cardoon is better 
to grow than the French variety. 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Cardoons 

are dressed in various ways. Boil them until soft in salt and 
water, dry them, butter them, and fry a good colour ; then 
serve with melted butter. They can be boiled and worked 
up in a fricassee sauce, or they may be tied up and dressed 
as asparagus. To stew them, cut them into pieces, and stew 
in white or brown gravy ; season with ketchup, salt, and 
cayenne, and thicken with a small lump of butter rolled in 
flour. 

Cardoon Salad 

Boil some cardoons in an earthenware vessel till tender^ 
having stripped off all leaves except the white ones, and cut 
them into lengths of three or four inches. When tender^ 
yet firm, they must be strained and wiped dry, and put into 
a stewpan, and sprinkled with pepper and salt. In the 
meantime, heat some oil in a pipkin with a piece of garlic, 
and, when hot, add a quarter of a tumblerful of white wine 
vinegar, well peppered ; let it boil, then pour it over the 
cardoons, and leave over the fire for two minutes ; sprinkle 
with chopped chives, and place into the salad bowl. 



VEGETABLES 29 



CARROTS 

Carrots were introduced into England in the 
reign of Elizabeth, and were so highly esteemed 
that the ladies wore leaves of it in their headdresses. 

Carrots require deep, light, warm soil, well 
trenched but not very recently manured. 

The seeds should be sown in dry weather, as if 
a shower of rain falls just after sowing it is almost 
fatal. 

Sowing in the open ground should not com- 
mence before April, as the seeds will not germinate 
in a low temperature ; and if frames are available 
it is best to sow broadcast in them in January or 
February on a hot bed, and cover the glass with 
mats till the seed appears. If the soil gets dry, a 
slight watering should be given, but no damp must 
be allowed to enter. The plants should be thinned 
when they get four leaves, and must be placed half 
an inch apart, and air given them when the weather 
permits. The heat should not be more than 60° 
in the daytime and 50° at night. 

For open air sowing, the seed should be sown 
in drills eight to twelve inches apart, according to 
the sorts, and as the carrots make their appearance, 
hoeing, weeding, watering, and thinning them to 
half an inch apart should be attended to, and when 
the plants are the size of a lead pencil, thin them 
to three or four inches apart, and before the last 
thinning is completed amongst them there should 
be small delicate carrots fit for the table. 

When carrot leaves begin to change colour the 
roots should be taken up and the tops cut off, and 



30 GARDENING 

the carrots placed in a cellar or outhouse and buried 
in sand. 

There are two kinds of carrots, the long and the 
horn. 

The best kinds to ^row are : Sutton's Early Gem, 
Early French Nantes, Sutton's Champion Scarlet 
Horn, French Horn, and Telegraph. 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 

Carottes a TOrleans 

Take a few young carrots, trim them of an equal size, 
cut them into slices about the eighth of an inch thick, and 
blanch them well. Next lay them on a towel to drain ; put 
them into a stewpan with a small Imnp of sugar and a little 
broth, and let them boil over a large fire. When reduced to 
glaze add a good piece of fresh butter and a little salt. Care 
must be taken that the butter does not adhere to the carrots 
when served, as no sauce must be seen. 

Croquettes de Carottes 

Take half a dozen carrots, boil them tender, and mash 
them whilst hot to a pulp, then add two yolks of eggs, salt, 
and white pepper, a grate of nutmeg, cinnamon, and moist 
sugar ; beat all well together, and make into the shape of 
croquettes ; dip into the white of eggs and fine breadcrumbs, 
then fry in boiling oil till of a pale golden colour. 



CAULIFLOWER 

Soil required for cauliflowers should be very 
rich, with any amount of root moisture. The ground 
should be heavily manured, and with good manage- 
ment, a sheltered garden, frames, and hand-lights a 



VEGETABLES 31 

complete succession can be had the whole year, 
excepting perhaps if there is a continuance of frost 
during the winter, especially in January, when it 
would be difficult to obtain supplies. 

The earliest cauliflowers are obtained by sowing 
seed out of doors at the end of August, placing 
them into small pots and wintering them in a cold 
frame, and then planting them out on a sheltered 
border about the middle of March. 

In the middle of February another crop should 
be sown in gentle heat, pricking them out in boxes 
of light soil in frames, and plant out the second 
week in April, and in the middle of April a third 
sowing should be made, and then there will be good 
heads in August and September, and the latter 
will continue the supply if dug up and laid in soil 
in pits or cold frames. 

Two feet asunder should be allowed between 
the plants when planting out. Of course where 
space is limited, and there is not room for succes- 
sions, the sowings must be less frequent. 

The soil should be well watered at sowing 
time, and when the plants are pricked out, dry 
weather should be selected, and the time late 
in the afternoon. Frost is a great destroyer 
of cauliflowers, and it is well in November to 
pull up the plants and tie the leaves over their 
heads and bury them in sand, laying them in alter- 
nate layers with the earth in a dry situation. Some 
gardeners, after pulling them up and tying the 
leaves over their heads, merely hang them in a shed 
or cellar, which keeps them good for some time. 

Spring sowings are liable to the inroads of 
White Fly, which cluster on them and eat their 
centres, and cause what is called ' blindness.' As a 



32 GARDENING 

preventive, sprinkle soot over the leaves when 
damp, or the hearts with tobacco powder. 

When a cauliflower is fit for use, which is known 
by the border opening as if about to run, pull up 
the plant at once. A cauliflower should be cut 
early in the morning, before the dew has gone, 
as if left to the middle of the day it loses much of 
its firmness and boils tough. 

The best kinds to sow are, for August sowings : 
Early London. First Crop, or Magnum Bonum, 
for middle of February. For April sowing : 
Sutton's King of Cauliflowers (Dwarf), Sutton's 
Amateur's Pride, and Veitch's Autumn Giant. 
Walcheren is also an excellent mid-season cauli- 
flower. 



RECIPE FOR COOKING 
Cauliflower a la Burmah 

Cleanse a large white cauliflower, cut the stalks close to 
the bottom, leaving a wreath of the short stalks all round. 
Boil it in milk and water till it is tender. Make a white 
sauce, into which add some grated parmesan cheese and 
some curry powder ; bring to the boil, and then simmer till 
the sauce is smooth, when it can be poured over and round 
the cauliflower. 

CELERIAC, or TURNIP-ROOTED 
CELERY 

This, where there is room for it, is a very useful 
vegetable, and is largely used abroad, but until 
quite lately has not been much cultivated in Eng- 
land. In flavour it resembles considerably the 
ordinary kinds of celery, the difference principally 



VEGETABLES 



7>Z 



being that in the latter the blanched leaf stalks con- 
stitute the edible portion, and in the turnip-rooted 
variety the tuber alone is used, which is generally 
cut into slices and served in salad, though it is some- 
times boiled and served with white sauce ; it is also 
very good for flavouring soups. 

The seed should be sown in March, and in the 
same way as celery, though the culture of it is more 
simple. The drills should be six inches apart, and 
the ground well watered morning and evening in 
dry weather. Prick the seedlings off as soon as 
they can be handled into a bed of rich soil in a 
frame, and when sufficiently forward, harden off and 
plant out in June in well-manured beds in rows of 
twelve inches apart and eighteen inches asunder. 
The soil need not be deep, but it must be light, and 
all lateral shoots must be trimmed off By the 
middle or end of September the roots will have 
obtained their full size, and should then be covered 
with a little earth to blanch them for two or three 
weeks previous to lifting them. A portion then 
may be taken up and stored in sand, but being of 
a very hardy nature, the bulk maybe left in the 
ground, and if covered with six or eight inches of 
light soil will be quite safe. 

The beds must be kept free from weeds. They 
should have an occasional soaking with liquid 
manure in dry weather. They only require earth- 
ing up a few inches with the hoe Celeriac is grown 
in Dresden to great perfection. 

The best kind is Vilmorin's New Apple-shaped 
Celeriac. A very hard kind, called Knott Celery, is 
grown in Germany. 



34 GARDENING 



RECIPE FOR COOKING 

They should be carefully pared and boiled till tender, 
then served either whole with melted butter or white sauce, 
or cut into slices with white sauce poured over them. As a 
variety, the white sauce can be flavoured with Parmesan 
cheese. 



CELERY 

This favourite vegetable was formerly in a wild 
state and grew in ditches, and was called ' smallage,' 
but with cultivation its original state is almost 
unrecognisable. The first sowing should be made 
about the end of February, a second sowing the 
first week in March, and a third sowing about the 
middle of April. 

For the first crop in February, the seed should 
be sown in a box or pan and kept in a warm green- 
house, and then the young plants transported to a 
hotbed in a frame as soon as they are fit to prick 
out. The soil should be rich, they should be fre- 
quently watered, and the earth stirred, and in 
favourable weather plenty of air given them. The 
second sowing in March should be the same as the 
first, and the pricking out may be placed in open 
situations in warm showery weather. The young 
plants should be put in six inches apart in the 
nursery beds, well watered, and the earth around 
them constantly stirred. 

The third sowing in April may take place in 
open frames and attended to as before mentioned. 

Planting out. — Trenches must be dug about 
eight inches deep, and the soil should have been 



VEGETABLES 35 

generously manured, and should be prepared some 
time before they are wanted, as they will then be 
in a better condition than when only dug as wanted. 
The manure must be rich but not fresh or rank, and 
it should be well blended with the soil in the bottom 
of the trench. 

Plant in single rows about ten inches apart, and 
never allow the plants to get dry ; and when the 
growth is well advanced, give liquid manure twice 
a week, not in driblets, but a thorough soaking. 

Earthing up. — When the plants are about 
eighteen inches high (or less, according to variety) 
they are ready for the first earthing up. This should 
be done most carefully, as great damage will be 
done by filling the hearts of each with soil, and per- 
haps, if too moist, cause decay. To prevent this, 
tie together the leaves with bast, which is perfectly 
effectual. First, all the decayed leaves and suckers 
should be removed gently, as they weaken the 
growth of the primary root. The earth should be 
well broken up finely before earthing up, then the 
earth laid about the stalks of the leaves, firmly 
pressing it down till the leaf part of the stem is 
reached. The bast with which the leaves are tied 
up is slightly buried under the soil ; it should be cut 
and left. When the celery has made some growth 
again, it should have another earthing up in the 
same manner, and as long as the growth continues 
it should be occasionally earthed up. 

Johnson, in his ' Gardener's Dictionary,' gives 
very minute directions for the earthing-up process. 
He says : ' The first earthing up should be done with 
a small trowel, holding the leaves together in one 
hand and stirring and drawing up a little earth to 
the plant with the other. The next earthing up is 



36 GARDENING 

done by the help of two light boards six to eight 
inches broad, of the same length as the trench is 
wide, these to be placed between two of the rows 
of plants ; then place between these boards well- 
broken earth as required, then draw up the boards 
steadily, do the same in the next space, and so on 
till all is completed.' 

He says also : ' By this method more than double 
the quantity can be grown in a given space of 
ground, and it is handy for protection in winter, 
either with hoops and mats or litter.' 

During the winter celery keeps in good condi- 
tion if well covered up with long litter, removing it 
in all favourable w^eathers. 

If there is an appearance of very severe weather 
three or four dozen of the celery may be dug up 
and laid in dry earth, sand, or sifted coal ashes, where 
it will keep good some time. Celery is liable to 
have its stalks split and canker if the soil is very 
wet and heavy ; therefore for earthing it up the 
soil should be light and dry. 

The Celery Fly is a great enemy to this plant, 
and causes part of the leaves to blister and turn 
yellow, which checks their growth terribly. Beneath 
the blistered parts small green grubs will be found 
on examination, which are the larvae of the 
Celery Fly, and are mostly to be found from June 
till November. 

The withered leaves should be picked off and 
crushed so as to destroy the grubs within them. 

The ' Cottage Gardener ' describes the Celery 
Fly as one of the most beautiful of the two-winged 
flies, and is fond of hovering over flowers and laurel 
bushes, and resting on palings in the sunshine, from 
the middle of May to the end of July. 



VEGETABLES 37 

Some of the best kinds are : White Celery, 
Sutton's Gem ; Sandringham White, and Wright's 
Giant White for the Red Celery ; Sulham Pink, 
Manchester Red, and Carter's Incomparable 
Crimson. 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Celery a I'ltalienne 

Take a couple of heads of celery, well washed and 
blanched ; stew them in milk till quite tender. Make a 
brown sauce, and, after draining the celery from the milk, 
cover it with it ; then put on a layer of grated Parmesan 
cheese; then more celery and sauce ; then more; on the 
top scatter a few breadcrumbs, and lay on little bits of 
butter over all, and brown with the salamander. 

Celery Souffle 

Take some sticks of nicely bleached celery, chop it, and 
pound it in a mortar, and then put it into a saucepan with 
cold water sufficient to cover it. Add pepper and salt to 
taste, and bring to the boil. Then strain the celery, and put 
it into a stewpan with half a pint of milk, and cook till soft 
enough to strain through a hair sieve. Then melt one and a 
half ounces of butter in a saucepan, and pour it on to an ounce 
of cornflour which has been made into a smooth paste with 
a little milk ; add cayenne pepper and salt to taste, and a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. Beat the yolks of three eggs 
till creamy and smooth, and add to the celery ; and lastly 
add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture 
into a souffle dish, filling it to the half only. Sprinkle a 
little coralline pepper and finely chopped parsley over all, 
and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. (' The 
Queen.') 



38 GARDENING 



Fried Celery 

Cut the white celery into pieces of about four inches long, 
dust them with salt and pepper, dip them into well-beaten 
eggs, then into fine breadcrumbs, and fry quickly in smoking 
hot fat ; drain, and serve very hot. This is a good accom- 
paniment to roast turkey, pheasant, or chicken. 



CHERVIL 

This is much used in salads and mayonnaise 
sauces, and makes a charming garnish to many of 
the fashionable cold entrees and savouries. It is 
also very good to be put amongst the flavourings 
for soup. The soil should be well drained, light, and 
chalky. It can be sown in the open ground any 
time in succession from February till September, and 
the seeds sown in drills eight inches apart and not 
more than a quarter of an inch deep ; the seedlings 
should be thinned out six inches apart in rows. The 
seeds should be sown on a warm day. A moist 
and cool situation suits it best. 



CHILI 

This is a very tender annual, and must be raised 
in heat, and instructions for the cultivation of cap- 
sicums answer for this. There are three varieties 
of it — the scarlet, yellow, and purplish black. 
Sutton's Coral Red and Tom Thumb are the best 
of the red kinds. Black Prince of the purple. 

They are used in curries and many little fancy 
savouries. 



VEGETABLES 39 

RECIPE 

Chili Vinegar, to Make 

Take 100 fresh red chilies and cut them into hahes ; 
let them infuse for a fortnight in a quart of the best pickling 
vinegar ; then strain and put it into small bottles ; keep the 
bottles well corked. (Cassell.) 

CHIVES 

The plant is a native of Great Britain, is peren- 
nial, and grows well in any ordinary soil. A 
light, rich one suits them best. They are propa- 
gated by dividing the roots in spring or autumn. 
It is best to buy the roots in the first instance, and 
then, in March or April, plant together eight or ten 
of the offsets of the bulbs in rows ten inches apart, 
and as many from patch to patch. The clumps 
should be cut regularly for the maintenance of the 
continuous growth of the young roots. Every four 
years they should be lifted, divided, and the roots 
replanted. They are very much more delicate than 
onions, and are much used for flavouring and in 
cutting up for salads and omelets. 

CUCUMBERS 

The principal points in growing cucumbers are 
plenty of heat, moisture, and rich soil, and without 
these failure is the result. The temperature should 
range from 60° as a minimum to 80,° 90,° or even 
100° occasionally, under the influence of bright 
sunshine. 

A constantly moisture-laden atmosphere is of 
quite as much importance as a liberal supply of it 



40 GARDENL\G 

at the root. A dry surface should never be seen. 
In a cucumber house, paths, stages, and walls ought 
to be always kept in a moist condition by syringing 
or by the use of the rosed-can. In hot, bright 
weather the paths of the house should be deluged 
two or three times a day. At the same time the 
bed must be well drained, so that all superfluous 
water may run away at once, and the plants ought 
to be set high. Ventilation should be very cau- 
tiously given, in order to check evaporation. Mois- 
ture rather than much fresh air is chiefly of conse- 
quence. As regards soil, they will grow almost in 
any moderately light, rich, sweet, and porous com- 
post, though nice turfy loam is preferable, chopped 
up roughly, and mixed with a small proportion of 
old rotted manure, and, unless naturally sandy, 
some sharp grit of some kind. A little soot may 
be added with advantage, and extra nourishment 
in the form of liquid manure may be given subse- 
quently. ' Gumming ' in cucumbers is due to cold, 
and often occurs in the early part of the season if 
the spring is dull and cold. If the plant is badly 
affected it cannot always be cured, but it can gene- 
rally be got over by raising the temperature and 
keeping the atmosphere moist. 

To grow Cucumbers in Frames. — April is a 
good time to make up a cucumber bed. A bed of 
warm manure should be made up — stable manure 
by itself heats too violently — throw it into a heap 
to ferment, and when it becomes hot it must be 
turned over and thoroughly mixed and pulled to 
pieces by placing the outside of the heap in the 
middle, and vice versa ; and in a few days, when the 
heap is getting hot, turn it over again and water 
the dry spots if there be any then. Then build up 



VEGETABLES 41 

the bed and put the frame over it, the bed being a 
foot larger all round than the frame ; tread it down 
well, then put a thermometer into the bed, and as 
soon as the heat becomes steady between 85° and 
90,° put in a barrowful of soil in the form of mole- 
hills, and arrange one under each light. 

The best soil for cucumbers is turfy loam two- 
thirds, and one-third old manure in a thoroughly 
mellow condition. Plant a few seeds singly in small 
pots, and plunge them into the bed ; they wdll be 
up in a week, and soon large enough to plant in the 
lights, one plant in the centre of each mole-hill. 
Fill up the bed three wrecks after planting with 
loam, to the depth of six inches, and pinch the 
leader out of the plants w^hen the second leaf can 
be seen, and peg the young bines, which break away 
over the surface in such wise that the frame will fill 
quickly. 

The plants will not require much water at first, 
but when bearing freely they must have liquid man- 
ure once or twice a week, according to the weather. 

If the soil is moist, as it should be, at planting 
little water will be needed, except to sprinkle the 
leaves in the afternoon of each day about 3 P.M. ; 
the water should be tepid — never colder than 
the heat inside the frame or house. When the 
plants are eighteen inches high, pinch out the point 
of each to induce side shoots to form, and where 
these are one foot longer, pinch them also, following 
up this treatment as long as the plants are growing. 
Remove all weak shoots, and cut away occasionally 
a few leaves to give light and air to the plants. 
Air should be admitted freely, yet carefully, to the 
plants, and foliage should not be cut unnecessarily. 
If possible, keep up a temperature of 60°, allowing 



42 GARDENING 

it to run up to 75° with air on. If the nights are 
cold a mat should be thrown over the glass. The 
foliage should be sprinkled every day with tepid 
water wlien closing the frame ; as the season ad- 
vances the foliage should be syringed twice a day, 
early in the morning and again about three. Abun- 
dance of moisture is needed atmospherically in the 
house, as it is not only beneficial to the cucumbers, 
but for the prevention of insect pests ; a dry atmo- 
sphere encourages the spread of red spider. 

Ventilation is also most necessary in cucumber 
cultivation, and should be given whenever condi- 
tions are favourable. It is a wrong practice to 
allow the temperature to rise considerably before 
putting on air, as is often donC; as then whatever 
ventilation is put on will not counteract the evil 
done, and consequently the cucumber very quickly 
gets a parched appearance. 

One often sees cucumbers form freely, but in- 
stead of coming to maturity they damp off, and 
direct light is needed to form a fruitful growth. 

Cucumbers require a great deal oi feeding \ if 
not, innumerable insects will attack them, as well as 
mildew. To feed them, give them manure water 
made from fresh cow manure and soot, which must 
be applied in a diluted and clean state. ' 

If the cucumbers are in a house or greenhouse, 
it is a good plan on closing it on the evening of 
fine days to damp the floor. The house or frame 
should be shaded on bright days from 10 A.M. till 
4 P.M., then sprinkled and closed. The frame should 
be opened just a little in the morning by seven 
o'clock, increasing the ventilation according to the 
temperature outside. 

A layer of moss litter manured is a great source 



VEGETABLES 43 

of nourishment to the plants all through the 
season. 

Sutton, in speaking of cucumber culture, says : 
' In warm sunny days two or three syringes of water 
will be beneficial, but must not be done so late as 
to risk the foliage being wet when night comes on. 
On dull days one good sprinkling over the foliage 
will suffice, which should be done in the morning ; 
and there will be occasions when it may be advis- 
able to avoid touching the leaves with water, if there 
is no probability of their drying before nightfall ; 
and in the event of the bed falling below the proper 
temperature, the water may be a few degrees higher 
than usual. It is also necessary that the interior 
of the glass should be frequently wiped to prevent 
the condensed steam dropping on the plants, which 
is very injurious to them. Where the plants have 
not the benefit of currents of air or bees to convey 
the pollen of the barren plants to the stigma of the 
fertile ones, the latter must be dusted by the grower, 
or the plants must be exposed to as much air as 
possible in the middle of the day when it is warm 
enough during the time that they are in flower.' 

Cucumbers should be grown as long and as 
straight as possible. 

Ridge, or Out-of-door Cucumbers. — Sowings 
must be made at the close of Mayor early in June. 
It is better to raise the seeds in a cool greenhouse 
or frame, unless there are hand-lights to put over 
the seed as soon as sown. A warm border is 
needed, and they can be grown on level ground if 
it has been well manured and dug up a good spit 
deep a few weeks before planting time. The plants 
require a little protection when first set out by 
turning a large pot over them for a few hours 



44 GARDENING 

during the day when the sun is very bright, also 
at night, until the plants get too large for the pot 
to cover thenii ; and grown in this way the plants 
do not require watering unless the season is hot 
and dry, but still they must not be allowed to 
suffer from draught, and if it is necessary to water, 
the water must be soft and well warmed by 
exposure to the sun, and then water liberally three 
or four successive evenings, and then give no more 
for a fortnight. 

Sutton says ' the plants should be only pinched 
once, and there is no occasion to set their bloom, 
and let them grow as they please/ If good, strong 
plants are set out about the middle of May there 
will be plenty of cucumbers to cut in July if 
rightly managed. 

Where cucumbers which grow in frames are 
desired straight, it is a good plan to utilise cracked 
lamp chimneys by placing them so that they grow 
into them, though to purchase a few new ones 
would not be ruinous, and would greatly improve 
the appearance of the cucumber. 

Premature Decay of Cucumbers. — There are 
various causes for this, such as over-cropping, dry- 
ness of the roots, or stagnation caused by too 
much moisture at the roots, or insufficient drainage ; 
also fluctuation of temperature will cause the 
young fruit to turn yellow. Another cause may 
be, if in a cucumber house and no fire heat is 
employed on a cool night succeeding a hot day, 
the plants receive a check which causes a stop- 
page of growth and the fruit to decay. 

A very troublesome disease which occasionally 
attacks cucumbers is that warty excrescences 
form on the roots, which cause the plants to 



VEGETABLES 45 

become sickly and the fruits die off. For this 
there is no cure, and the only thing to do is to pull 
all the plants down and burn them, take away all 
the old soil, and clean the house out and start 
afresh with fresh soil and new healthy plants. 
When cucumbers are found to be bitter, it is 
because they have not had enough water to the 
roots. Gumming is usually induced by low tem- 
perature and stagnant roots, for which more heat 
and stimulant should be given. 

Cucumbers are very liable to be attacked by 
Green Fly {Aphis), Red Fly (A cams), and Thrips, 
and for their expulsion see the supplement, 
* Garden Pests.' They are also subject to mildew, 
canker, and gumming, for the prevention of which 
see supplement, ' Diseases of Plants.' 

A few Hints for Cucumber Growing. — A 
constant supply of moisture is most necessary. In 
addition to liberal applications of water or liquid 
manure at the root, the whole of the interior of the 
frame or house for cucumbers must be thoroughly 
syringed twice a day in bright weather, and even 
three or four times on very warm sunny days, 
especially if there is much wind. The foliage 
should be shaded to prevent its flagging, but no 
more. Plenty of moisture will keep it up under all 
but the strongest sun. Close the frame an hour or 
two at least before the sun goes off it in the 
afternoon (after a good damping down), and let the 
thermometer rise to 70° or 100° for a time. A 
little air may be given later on if necessary. 

The best kinds of cucumbers to grow are 
Telegraph, Lockie's Perfection, Sutton's Duke of 
Connaught, and Hutton's Magnum Bonum. For 
Ridge Cucumbers : Sutton's King of the Ridge, 



46 GARDENING 

Stockwood, Athenian Ridge, and Short Prickly (or 
Gherkin) for pickHng. 

Winter Cucumbers. — The seeds should be 
sown singly in 3-inch pots placed near the glass. 
The best varieties for the winter are Telegraph 
and Cardiff Castle, the preference for the first 

The soil in which the plants are to be sown 
should consist of one half loam and the rest of 
decayed manure (that from an old hotbed prefer- 
able) and leaf soil. The compost must be well 
mixed and placed in the house four or five days 
before planting, so that it may be warm quite 
through. The glass and woodwork should be 
thoroughly cleaned previously, both to give light 
to the foliage and destroy any insect pests. 

When the plants are to be turned out of the 
pots, care should be taken that the soil is thoroughly 
moist. They may be syringed twice a day except 
on very wet days. To check red spider and thrips, 
as soon as the fruit commences swelling liquid 
manure water in a tepid state should be applied 
to the roots : this should be very weak and applied 
often. 

The temperature should range between 65° 
and 75°, but on bright sunny days with a little 
air it may be 5° higher ; in fact, with a 
little extra fire heat the ventilators might be 
open every day. The atmosphere as well as 
being warm should also be moist, and for this 
purpose water must be thrown on the floor 
occasionally, but not too often, because in the 
winter the leaves are liable to be attacked by 
mildew, which, should it appear, must be quickly 
destroyed by dusting with sulphur. 

If too many fruits appear, all but the best 



VEGETABLES 47 

should be removed. The shoots must be stopped 
at every second point when the trelHs is sufficiently 
covered, and some of the old wood can be cut out 
to allow the young growths room to develop. 

Cucumbers Failing. — Canker is a disease to 
which cucumbers are subject. Too much moisture 
just round the stem, where there are few or no 
fibres to take it up, is a frequent cause of canker ; 
therefore the collars of the plants should be kept 
high. Not to wet them there more than can be 
helped, it is a good plan to place some pieces of 
charcoal or coal cinders round each. 

Canker, if not taken in time, generally proves 
fatal. To grow cucumbers really well they ought 
to be pushed on in a genial temperature from 70° 
to 80°, and never falling below 60° at the lowest, 
with plenty of moisture both at the roots and 
the atmosphere, and nourishment as well. But 
little ventilation is necessary except in very hot 
weather. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 

Concombre Farcie 

Stuffed Cucumber 

Remove the peel from a large cucumber, cut off the stalk 
end, and scoop out the pips and a portion of the inside. 
Have ready a forcemeat made of meat, poultry, or fish, with 
finely chopped onions and chervil, and fill up the inside of 
the cucumber with it ; envelop with slices of bacon tied 
over, and put into a stewpan with some nicely flavoured 
pale stock and a bouquet garni, and let them simmer till 
tender. Now remove the cucumber, and keep hot whilst 
the sauce is boiling to reduce it ; thicken it with flour and 
butter in the usual way, pour it on to a dish, lay on the 
cucumber, and sprinkle with lemon juice. 



48 GARDENING 

Cucumbers and Eggs 

Cut up a cucumber into dice-shaped pieces, and put 
them into boiling water. Then take them out and put them 
into a stewpan with an onion, a good-sized piece of butter, 
and a piece of pork ; add a little salt. Cook with cover on 
for about fifteen minutes, sprinkle then with flour, add cover 
with good veal or chicken gravy, stir well, and keep 
over a gentle fire till no scum rises. Then remove the onion 
and pork and add the yolks of two eggs and a teaspoonful 
of cream. Stir, then remove from fire, and squeeze in a 
little lemon juice. Send to table with poached eggs on the 
top. 

Fried Cucumbers 

Pare the cucumbers, cut them into very thin slices, 
season with salt and pepper, then dip them into beaten ^%g^ 
and then into breadcrumbs. Put a couple of tablespoonfuls 
of good dripping into the frying-pan, and when hot put in a 
few slices of the cucumbers ; when brown and crisp on one 
side, turn and brown the other. Take out carefully, drain, 
and serve hot. 

ENDIVE 

Endive originally came from China and Japan, 
and was known in England before 1548. It is 
most easily produced on freely manured light soils, 
and nothing is so good for it as growth in the soil 
cleared of early potatoes. 

Where there is not too much room in gardens 
the seed should not be sown till the middle of 
April or May. The seed should be sown in drills 
twelve inches apart, and not very deeply in the 
surface, and when the plants are an inch high prick 



VEGETABLES 49 

them out on a bed of rich Hght soil. The plants in 
the seed-bed should be thinned to three inches, and 
must be watered in dry weather. When planted 
they should be set in rows twelve inches apart. 
Water must be applied every evening till the plants 
are established. 

Much endive is lost because so many growers 
blanch too much at one time, or omit to store the 
bulk of the crop out of the reach of frost. The 
plants decay very quickly after the tips of the 
leaves have been crippled by frost. 

The safest plan is to grow the endives in beds, 
covered by lights or mats whenever frosts are 
expected. Often endive is spoilt by either blanch- 
ing too much at a time, or because the bulk of the 
crop has not been stored out of reach of frosts. 
Endive when lifted carefully will keep wonderfully 
well in sheds, and when there is but little space it 
can be stored in conical heaps surrounded by dry 
sand, the points of the leaves being well brought 
together so as to protect the hearts facing out- 
wards. 

To Blanch Endive. — Endive keeps badly after 
it is blanched, therefore very little should be done 
at a time. This operation should not be begun till 
the plants are fully grown, and as long as the 
plants can be left in the open, the blanching can be 
most simply effected by tying the outer leaves well 
together, excluding the light from the hearts ; they 
can also be enclosed singly in 6-inch or larger 
pots inverted over them and the holes stopped ; 
also slates or tiles may be laid on them. 

Endives should be kept well moistened at the 
roots, as dryness causes the leaves to become tough 
and also induces premature flowering. It keeps 

E 



50 GARDENING 

wonderfully well in sheds, or it may be stored in 
conical heaps surrounded by dry sand, the points 
of the leaves being well brought up together so as 
to protect the hearts. 

The best kinds to grow : Sutton's Incomparable 
Green, White Curled, and Moss Fine Curled. For 
winter use : Round-leaved Batavian, which is very 
acceptable when lettuces are scarce. 



RECIPE FOR COOKING 
Endive au Jus 

Wash and clean the endive, cut into halves, season with 
pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Fasten the halves 
together again, and place them into a saucepan, with a slice 
of bacon over and underneath it ; add two onions stuck with 
two cloves, two carrots, and a bouquet garni ; cover with 
some good gravy, and let it simmer till tender ; then give a 
squeeze of lemon over, and send to table with poached eggs 
on the top. 

FENNEL 

This herb should be sown in March to May in 
light warm soil in drills, and transplanted when 
three or four inches high. A sandy soil suits it 
best, but not wet ; the plants should be planted 
when thinned to eight or nine inches apart. 
Fennel is used generally for making fennel sauce, 
and eaten with mackerel ; it is also used in soups, 
and for garnishing it is most effective. The seeds 
are also used in medicine. 



VEGETABLES 51 



GARLIC 

This should be grown on a light rich soil, and 
should have a place if possible in every garden, for 
its use in flavouring is so necessary, as a soup^on 
of garlic in rumpsteak pudding, hashes, &c., is such 
an improvement It is best sown in a light rich 
soil, and it is generally propagated by parting the 
root, and it may also be raised from the bulbs 
produced on the stems. The middle of March is 
the best time to plant. They should be planted 
about two inches beneath the surface of the soil, and 
about eight or nine inches apart ; holes should be 
made in straight lines, and a single clove or bulb 
must be put into each, the roots downwards. 
They must be frequently hoed, and the leaves tied 
in knots in June to prevent the plants running to 
seed. They may be lifted as required in June and 
July, but the whole must not be lifted till August. 
In lifting them, leave a piece of the stalk attached 
so as to tie them in bundles with it after drying 
them for storing for the winter. 

Garlic is a very good thing for driving grubs, 
snails, and moles away. The bulbs should be 
slightly crushed and then strew^n about. 



KALE (SCOTCH) 

This vegetable is of a very hardy nature, and 
in cold and exposed places it is indispensable. 
There are a great many varieties of this plant, but 
?ire pretty similar as regards their cultivation. 

E 2 



52 GARDENING 

They delight in rich, well-worked soils with copi- 
ous manure waterings. 

The seeds should be sown broadcast and thinly 
in about three successive sowings, commencing the 
end of March, then in April and May ; the seedlings 
should be pricked out when their leaves are about 
two inches in width, and set about six inches apart 
each way^ and watered frequently. In a month's 
or five weeks' time they will be ready for their 
final transplanting. They must be kept well 
weeded, and the earth drawn about the stems of 
the large spreading growth. 

The most useful kinds are the Dwarf Curled 
or Scotch, the Cottagers, the Jerusalem or Aspa- 
ragus Kale, and the Phoenix ; Variegated Borecole 
or Garnishing Kale ; Chou de Milan, which is a 
hybrid savoy, and Chou de Burghley, a cross 
between a cabbage and a broccoli, useful in large 
gardens, and Purple Borecole ; but Curled Kale, 
Buckman's Hardy, and Variegated Borecole for 
preference, the latter being most useful for gar- 
nishing. 

RECIPE FOR COOKING 

Kale a la Montglas 

Cook the kale in the usual way. Chop it, put a little 
butter, pepper, and salt to it, and form into the shape of 
large leaves, and let one overlap the other, placed round a 
dish like cutlets. 

KOHL RABI 

This is a most acceptable vegetable, and should 
be grown in every garden, however small. It 



VEGETABLES 53 

is grown as a substitute for turnip, being much 
hardier and more deHcate and nutty in flavour, 
besides being sweeter and more nutritious. 

This plant partakes of the character of the 
cabbage and turnip. The soil should be heavy 
and the seeds should be sown in April and May, 
then thinned out to three inches apart as soon as 
possible. Then they must be thinned again, and 
planted two feet apart in rows ; they must be 
planted shallow, as the plants must have the chief 
part of their stems left uncovered by the soil. The 
hoe must be used every now and again to keep the 
ground clean and ventilated. In appearance it is 
globular in form, very like a large Swedish turnip, 
with stems crowned with leaves scalloped on the 
edges. 

It is a most useful vegetable, as the green part 
can be either cooked as cabbage or spinach, and 
the roots boiled like turnips. 

There are several varieties, but the green- 
stemmed and the purple-stemmed are preferred. 
The best kinds to plant are Large Green, Large 
Purple, and Neapolitan Curled Kale. 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 

Simmer a kohl rabi till tender, and then pare and cut 
it into slices after draining it. Then place some slices into a 
china fireproof dish with a little good white sauce, into which 
some grated Parmesan cheese has been mixed, and serve 
very hot. 

Kohl Rabi Curried 

This is made as in the former recipe, only instead of the 
white sauce a curry sauce is used. 



54 GARDENING 



LEEKS 

The leek originally was a'native of Switzerland, 
and was introduced into England before the time 
of Elizabeth. It belongs to the onion tribe, only 
far more delicately flavoured than onions. They 
require a long season of growth in a deep, well- 
worked, highly manured soil. 

Sow about the middle of March in the open, 
and, when large enough, they must be thinned and 
transplanted as opportunities occur — which, as 
Sutton recommends (and I have found it the best 
plan), should be when the plants are six inches 
high — into well-prepared and previously watered 
ground, and trenched in a similar manner for celery, 
eighteen inches wide. This will allow two rows of 
plants being put into each trench. Manure should 
be laid at the bottom of the trenches. Cow-manure 
is best for light soil, and that from the stable for 
heavy land. 

The plants should be put in one foot apart in 
the rows and fifteen inches between the rows. Stir 
the ground occasionally, and cut off the tops of the 
leaves to cause the roots to grow to a larger size. 

Once a week in dry weather they should have 
a good soaking, and early in September, when a 
good growth has been obtained, the leeks should be 
carefully earthed up so as to have them thoroughly 
blanched. It takes about six weeks for them to 
blanch thoroughly. They should be covered with 
the earth nearly down to the leaves. 

The tops of the leaves should be cut off about 
once a month, and, as new ones are produced, the 
neck swells to a much larger size. It is a good plan, 



VEGETABLES 55 

as soon as winter sets in, to take the best roots 
and bury in dry sand, and they will keep good for 
from six weeks to two months at least. 

Sutton advises that as the flower stems rise 
up every one should be nipped out, which will result 
in the formation at the roots of small roundish 
white bulbs, which make a nice dish when stewed 
in gravy, and may be used in cookery the same as 
onions, and which are to be obtained only in the 
spring or early summer. We have not tried this 
part of the cultivation of leeks yet, but intend doing 
so. 

The best kinds to grow are Sutton's Improved 
Musselburgh, Large Rouen, Ayton Castle, London 
Flag, and Poitou. The Lyon is a very large 
variety. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Flammish Leeks 

Wash and blanch some nice-sized leeks, cut them into 
half-inch pieces, put half a pint of cream into a basin, and 
stir in the leeks ; season with pepper and salt. Have some 
short paste, and divide into four parts ; roll out each into 
rounds about the size of cheese- plates ; place the leek mix- 
ture into the centre, and gather up the sides of the paste 
like a puckered purse ; fasten with a small round piece of 
paste, wetted, and fixed on the centre. (Cassell.) 

Leeks au Gratin 

Prepare the leeks as above, then place them in an oven, 
and as they get hot put bits of butter on them, and dredge 
them lightly with biscuit raspings ; when these become a 
nice brown add some more, till the leeks are tender and well 
coated with the raspings. Sprinkle with cayenne pepper and 
serve with lemon cut into quarters to be squeezed over them. 



GARDENING 



LETTUCE 

The lettuce was introduced into England in 
1562, but its origin is not known, except we hear 
of it in the East about the time of Cyrus the 
Great. 

The soil should be well dug and richly rhanured, 
though lettuce will grow almost in any soil, and 
may be planted between other vegetables, especially 
in rows between cabbage, which is of course a great 
economy of space where the ground is limited. 
The situation must be sunny, they must have an 
abundant supply of moisture throughout their 
whole growth, as the more water is given the less 
apt are the plants to run to seed, besides ensuring 
crispness and succulency. 

Sowings should be made in boxes in February 
and put into frames, after which time they can be 
sown in the open. When sown in frames they 
should be pricked out when three weeks or a 
month old, thinned to three or four inches apart, 
and prick out those removed to similar distances ; 
those from the February sowings in frames, and 
thence until August in any open situation. 

In the final planting out place them in rows a 
foot apart each way. Lettuces always attain a finer 
growth if left where sown, and those which are 
planted out at once are in every respect better 
than those pricked out for a final planting. 

Those required for winter use are best planted 
on ridges, and can be sheltered with hoops and 
matting during severe weather. Occasionally an 



VEGETABLES 57 

application of liquid manure is most beneficial, but 
watering liberally must take place throughout their 
culture. 

There are two kinds of lettuces, the Cos and 
the Cabbage. 

The Cabbage lettuce grows flat and spreading, 
and the Cos compact and upright. 

Cos lettuces are generally blanched by bending 
down the tips of the leaves over the heart and 
tying them together with bast. Johnson recom- 
mends in his ' Gardener's Dictionary ' that at the 
time of tying them up, the centre bud of each 
should be cut out with a sharp knife, to prevent the 
plants running to seed before the heart is perfectly 
blanched. 

The German or Spotted lettuce is being now 
much grown in England. It is cultivated in the 
usual way, and is similar to the Cabbage lettuce, 
only larger, and with reddish spots over the leaves. 
It is very succulent and sweet in eating. 

The Italian lettuce Incappacciato can also be 
well grown here, and is a very crisp lettuce cabbage 
in form, but with jagged prickly-looking leaves ; 
they should be quickly grown and eaten quite 
young. As they grow older they can be dressed 
as spinach and in various other ways, and make 
a very nice addition and change to the dinner 
table. We have grown it with seeds sent from 
Naples, and found it succeed wonderfully well. 

The best kinds of English lettuces to grow 
are : Cos Lettuce, Sutton's Mammoth White, Paris 
White, Winter White, Cabbage Lettuces, Sutton's 
Gem, Commodore Nutt, Golden Ball and Veitch's 
Perfect Gem. 



58 . GARDENING 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Dutched Lettuces 

Wash a couple of lettuces, separate the leaves, and tear 
each leaf into two or three pieces ; cut a quarter of a pound 
of bacon into dice, and fry till brown ; whilst hot add two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Beat an ^gg till light, and put to 
it two tablespoonfuls of sour cream, mix it with the bacon, 
stir over the fire for one minute till it thickens, and pour 
boiling hot over the lettuce ; mix well, and serve quickly. 

Lettuce a la Milano 

Take some lettuces — the Cabbage, Spotted, or Italian 
Incappacciato are best — boil as for spinach, run through a 
tammy, and finish with flour, butter, a little milk and sugar, 
the same as for spinach. 



MARJORAM 

There are four kinds of this herb, the 
Common, the Pot, the Sweet, and the Winter 
variety. 

The first and last are hardy, and should be in- 
creased by dividing the roots in spring. 

Sweet Marjoram is grown as an annual by 
sowing the seed in April on a warm border, and 
subsequently transplanting the seedlings about six 
inches apart. 



VEGETABLES 59 



MINT 

The best to grow for all ordinary purposes is 
the true spear mint. This herb is increased by 
division of the roots in spring and covering them 
with two inches of soil. It requires rich and moist 
ground. Cuttings of the young shoots root freely 
in the early summer if kept moist and shaded. It 
is very necessary to keep the mint bed clear from 
weeds, and to allow plenty of space for growing. 
To have mint ready for Easter, some roots should 
be put into frames or some planted in a box and 
kept in a greenhouse. 

Peppermint is grown in the same way. 



MUSHROOMS 

The mushroom was one of the table delicacies 
in the early days of English history. From some 
of the Roman records we read that the Em- 
peror Claudius met his death at the hands of 
his wife Agrippina (who was also his niece), who 
had prepared him a dishful of the poisonous species. 
In France mushrooms form a very large article 
of consumption, and beds of them are cultivated 
frequently miles in extent. A cave at Mery 
contained in 1867 twenty-one miles of beds, pro- 
ducing not less than 3,000 lb. daily. The catacombs 
and quarries, Moulin de la Roche, Sous Bicetre, and 
Bagneuse produce immense quantities of them. 
These are all under Government supervision, and 
are periodically inspected. 



6o GARDENING 

Mr. Henry de Vilmorin writes that mushrooms 
can be produced easily everywhere, and in all 
seasons, with a little care. The essential conditions 
are to lease a very rich soil and a uniform tempera- 
ture, which should be kept from rising above 86° 
or falling lower than 50° Fahr. 

To construct the bed, although horse-dung is 
generally employed for this purpose, all other warm 
manures are suitable, such as those of goats, sheep, 
rabbits, or fowls. The manure should not contain 
too much straw, neither should it be too close or 
too highly charged with ammonia. 

The dung, whatever it is, should undergo a pre- 
paration to moderate the fermentation, which will 
at the same time make it more durable and 
equal. As soon as the dung has been taken from 
the stable it should be put into square heaps 
about one yard in height, and all foreign sub- 
stances removed. It should be well mixed with a 
fork. 

The parts which seem to be dry should be 
moistened, and then trim or press firmly together 
the sides of the heap. It is to be left in this state 
until the heat becomes excessive, which condition 
will be known by the white colour of the 
most odorous parts, which takes place in from six 
to ten days after the heap is made. The heap must 
then be broken down, the manure shaken up, and 
the heap rebuilt, taking care to place the manure 
that was outside, and of which the fermentation is 
the most backward, in the inside. 

Generally, some days after the heap has been 
turned, fermentation will be so great that the heap 
will have to be thrown down and remade. 

Sometimes, however, after the second working 



VEGETABLES 61 

the manure is sufficiently made, and can be put 
into beds. When the manure has become brown 
without being rotten, it can be used without danger, 
for then the straw has lost its consistency, and its 
smell will resemble the odour of fresh mushrooms. 

A heap of less than a cubic yard can hardly be 
handled properly. 

The best way of constructing the beds is to 
give them a height from nineteen inches to twenty- 
three inches, with the width nearly equal at the 
base. 

When a large space is to be laid out, beds in 
sloping form or with a shelving edge are preferable, 
as they can be of unlimited length whilst keeping 
the height and breadth named. The breadth, on 
the contrary, ought to be less than the height when 
the beds lean against a wall. Beds can be made 
in old tubs sawn in two or upon planks. In the 
latter case they have given to them the shape of a 
cone, or more like a heap of stones which one sees 
by the roadside. The manure ought to be easily 
divided, and when putting it in its place the parts 
which form clods should be broken, and the compact 
portions mixed with the strawy parts and all well 
stirred together. The manure should be trampled 
over three or four times, and then all projecting 
pieces removed, so that the surface is firm and 
smooth. 

After the beds are made it will be necessary to 
wait a few days before putting in order to see 
whether fermentation begins again. 

Use a thermometer, and if the temperature 
is above 86° Fahr. the bed is too warm ; then 
aerate the bed by pushing a stick into it, so 
that the heat can escape from the holes. As soon 



62 GARDENING 

as the excess of the heat is over, the heap must be 
rammed down again. When the temperature is 
uniformly about J'j", the spawn can be put 
in. Either fresh or dry spawn can be put in. 
Some days before introducing the dry spawn 
into the beds it is good to expose it to the 
influences of a tepid and moderate moisture, as it 
makes the growth quicker and surer. To impregnate 
the beds the cakes of spawn are broken into pieces 
three inches square and half an inch thick, and should 
be inserted in the face of the bed lengthwise, and 
at intervals of nine inches to ten inches. 

In beds which are from fifteen inches to eighteen 
inches high, and which are the most ordinary size, 
two rows of spawn are placed. 

The pieces of spawn should be put in with the 
right hand, whilst with the left the dung is raised 
to make places for them. 

They ought to be pushed in till their outside 
edge is level with the top of the bed, and then the 
dung must be pressed firmly round them to keep 
them fixed. 

If the bed is in a place where the temperature 
is equal, it is not long before the spawn grows. If 
the beds are in the open air, it is necessary to cover 
them with some long straw dung. 

The spawn ought to begin to run in seven or 
eight days after it has been put in, and it is well to 
make sure of its growth at this period, so as to be 
able to replace the pieces of spawn which should 
not have grown. These are easily recognised by 
the absence of white threads in the dung. In fifteen 
to twenty-one days the spawn ought to have spread 
all over the bed, and should begin to rise to the 
surface ; the beds should then be smoothed down 



VEGETABLES 63 

beating them with care and to clear up anything 
which would affect the growth of the mushrooms. 
The tops and sides of the beds must be covered 
with earth, which should be light and fresh, rich in 
saltpetre, and contain some proportion of lime. 
Old plaster broken up is good for this purpose, and 
should at first be watered with a weak solution of 
saltpetre or liquid farmyard manure. 

Before putting on the soil, the heap should be 
lightly moistened, and the earth put on the top and 
sides to the thickness of half an inch, and pressed 
firmly against the dung, and made very smooth. 
After this, all that is necessary to do is to water 
from time to time, or to replace the straw covering 
if it becomes removed from the bed. The surface 
of the bed should remain fresh and moist without 
being too damp. 

If the waterings, which ought always to be light, 
are not sufficient, the soil round the base of the bed 
should be watered, which will absorb the necessary 
moisture. 

Some weeks later mushrooms will begin to 
appear. When picking the mushrooms the holes 
left should be filled with the same earth which has 
been used to cover the bed. The production ex- 
tends generally from two to four months if left to 
itself, but it can be maintained longer by means of 
lightly watering, the water having guano added to 
it. The temperature of the water should be from 
68° to Zt"" Fahr., but great care is necessary in 
watering, so as not to injure or dirty the growing 
mushrooms, as through neglect of these precautions 
mildew and rottenness will often occur. 

Pull up all mushrooms which appear soft and 
yellowish, throw out the earth which is around 



64 GARDENING 

them, and water the holes from which they are 
pulled with a mixture of three-quarters of an ounce 
of saltpetre in a pint of water, and refilled with 
earth. If small white granules appear at the bottom 
of the bed and round the pieces of spawn, take out 
the affected parts and refill with fresh earth. 

Besides raising three or four lots of mushrooms 
under cover in the year, the supply can be continued 
out of doors during the summer season. Beds used 
for other forced culture may be pierced with a stick 
in their sides and mushroom spawn placed in them, 
and they will often yield good crops, provided that 
the temperature is proper and the young mush- 
rooms are protected by a light covering of earth 
when they are beginning to develop. 

To test it, plunge in an ordinary thermometer. 
The spawn should be broken into pieces two inches 
square. Insert thern into the manure two inches 
deep and nine inches apart all over the bed. Press 
the manure down firmly, and just cover the bed with 
fine sifted earth about an inch thick, and press down 
firmly with the back of a spade. The heat of the 
bed should never be allowed to get lower than 65° 
for the first six weeks. It is a good plan to do this 
by adding a little straw on the top. 

To make Mushroom Beds in the Open Air. — 
Proceed to make the bed as above. Beds for winter 
bearing should contain more material than for the 
summer work. Straw manure is best, and should be 
procured from stables where the horses are receiving 
Jiard food, and only the longest of the litter should 
be shaken out, and which can be used for covering 
the beds when dried in the sun. 

The beds for winter should not be less than 
three feet wide and equally high, or nearly so. Soil 



VEGETABLES 65 

up to two inches in depth should be placed on the 
beds when the spawn is running freely. Choose a 
sheltered spot for an outdoor bed. Mushrooms for 
autumn and winter should have a bed the south 
side of a wall or hedge ; if for spring and summer, 
behind a north wall. Should the heat of the beds 
become too hot, make a few holes down the centre 
of the bed with an iron stick or bar. 

Mushrooms ought to appear in six weeks, but 
that cannot be depended on, and sometimes are much 
longer in producing them. Outdoor beds if well 
covered seldom require watering, but if they become 
dry they must be moistened with lukewarm water. 

The usual time to water mushroom beds is im- 
mediately after gathering. People often make the 
mistake of not watering enough when the mush- 
rooms are getting forward, as mushrooms always 
grow best in the fields after rain ; and, when arti- 
ficially grown, warm liquid manure may be given 
frequently to beds in bearing. 

Mushrooms may also be grown on lawns and 
in pleasure grounds by procuring some mushroom 
spawn in April or May, and by breaking the bricks 
into pieces about two inches square and burying 
them at intervals all over the lawn. In each place 
raise a small piece of the turf and insert a piece of 
the spawn, and press the turf down over it ; then 
the lawn should be rolled, and the mushrooms will 
appear in September. The same spawn will produce 
plants for several years in succession, and the lawn 
may be mowed just as usual. 

The following is of the best plans to make a 
mushroom bed : First take some fresh horse-drop- 
pings from a stable where the animals have been 
highly fed, and place under a dry shed ; then turn it 



66 GARDENING 

about occasionally, so that all scent is lost ; next 
place it in a room or cellar, and make a bed ten inches 
thick ; ram the manure firmly, and cover it with one 
and a half inch thickness of soil, made firm and even. 
When the bed has attained a falling temperature of 
about 65°, insert the spawn, which should be put 
in rows about a foot apart and eight inches in the 
rows. Each piece of spawn may be put in one inch 
deep ; a little water should be occasionally given. 
The time it takes for the mushrooms to come up 
depends upon circumstances — possibly in about six 
weeks. A good temperature one month with an- 
other is from 50° to 54°. 

Another way of making mushroom beds is to 
make them on a brick floor, which should be made 
in ridge form, as a greater surface is provided than 
in any other form. The bed should be two feet 
six inches wide at the base, two feet ten inches high, 
and nine inches wide at the ridge. Collect some 
stable manure and throw it into a heap, and protect 
it from the wet. When enough has been collected 
for a bed (it matters little how long the bed is made 
beyond six feet), throw it into a close heap to fer- 
ment ; if too dry, just wet it very slightly to induce 
heat. The manure should be turned for three days 
successively, when it ought to be just at the right 
moisture to make up into a bed. The bed should 
be rammed down as hard as possible to make it firm. 
Fermentation will now set in after a few days, and 
when the heat is at 85° it will be ready for spawning. 

I fdel sure mushroom culture would prove 
lucrative to ladies who are endeavouring to supple- 
ment small incomes, if they could manage space 
enough from their gardens to cultivate them in, as 
mushroom cultivation is not a difficult art. I read 



VEGETABLES 67 

in the ' Caterer ' that a Mr. Joseph Nepp, of Leipsic 
and Plagwitz, Germany, who is a civil engineer, has 
patented a system for mushroom cultivation. His 
beds are artificially prepared in such a way that 
indirect pulsation and aspiration are provided and 
the growth stimulated by the chemical bed and the 
regulation of the temperature. These beds can be 
placed in cellars, sheds, special houses, or any con- 
venient locality. They are placed at various angles, 
so that a ground space of ten yards square would 
give a bed space of fifteen square yards, and ground 
space of twenty square yards a bedof thirty to thirty- 
five square yards, and so on. These beds require 
practically no attention, and they will go on bearing 
a plentiful daily crop from six to ten months, and 
instances of beds bearing for twelve to fourteen 
months are not uncommon. The first outlay of a 
permanent bed of twelve yards square with a plenti- 
ful supply of plant stimulants costs 2/., whilst beds 
containing 250 square yards cost from 10/. to 15/. 

As mushroom beds decline they must be reno- 
vated by taking off the earth, and if the dung is 
decayed they must be remade, and any good spawn 
which shows itself preserved ; but if the beds are 
dry, solid, and full of good spawn, a fresh layer of 
compost three or four inches thick must be added, 
mixed a little with the old, and beaten solid again. 

It is much better to purchase the spawn than 
to collect it. Sutton supplies most excellent and 
reliable spawn, and I should recommend everyone 
to purchase spawn, as that which is collected from 
stable dunghills is not to be relied on. Sutton has 
spawn especially manufactured for them, and it is 
so cheap that it seems waste of time to try and 
collect it. There are three erades of mushrooms — ■ 



68 GARDENING 

buttons, cups, and broilers— each used for differ- 
ent culinary purposes. ' Buttons ' when the cap 
is united to the stalk and the gills are not visible ; 
they vary from the size of a nut to that of a 
walnut. ' Cups ' are buttons in a further advanced 
stage, just showing a ring of the gills half an inch 
in diameter ; and ' broilers ' when they are fully ex- 
panded, showing all the gills plainly. A little book, 
called ' Mushrooms for the Million,' published at 
the ' Journal of Horticulture,' by J. Wright, is a 
little book that should be in the hands of every 
grower of mushrooms who means to make their 
culture pay. 

One of the largest mushrooms that has ever been 
seen, weighing not less than twenty-nine pounds, 
was lately on view in the window of a small restau- 
rant in the Rue St. Antoine, Paris. It grew to this 
size in forty-eight hours in the quarries of Porche- 
ville, which are devoted to the cultivation of mush- 
rooms in the Seine-et-Oise Department. 

Slugs and snails are great enemies to mush- 
rooms, and often at night may be discovered with 
the aid of a lantern, and then caught. J. Wright 
recommends brewers' grains or bran being placed 
in heaps near the beds, as, if examined after dark, 
they will be found covered with snails, and if these 
be covered with salt they will do no further damage. 

Wood-lice are also troublesome. If pieces of 
parsnip boiled in a solution of arsenic are placed 
in flower pots close to the beds, the wood-lice will 
eat them greedily, but of course these must not be 
put where there are fowls, &c. 

When mushrooms are the size of buttons, and 
cease swelling and rot, a fungus has taken posses- 
sion of them, and can only be destroyed by clearing 



VEGETABLES 69 

the beds and cleansing, limewashing, and disinfect- 
ing the house, but it is not prevalent in the open air. 

Millipedes are small threadlike creatures that 
sometimes infest the beds, showing that the 
manure has not been sufficiently heated and puri- 
fied. Sometimes very minute insects infest mush- 
room beds, especially if the manure is too dry, 
and generally one or two ounces of salt dissolved 
in a gallon of tepid water will destroy the pests. 

Mr. Charles Bateson says : * If sugar and plaster 
of Paris are mixed together and strewn about an 
inch thick all round and on the top of the bed, the 
insects will speedily disappear.' 

To tell if Mushrooms are of the edible kind. — 
Wash them in vinegar and water, and wipe them 
dry and put them into a saucepan full of cold salted 
water, to w^hich a peeled onion has been added. If 
during the process of cooking the onion remains 
white, the mushrooms are fit to eat ; but if it 
becomes black or slightly discoloured, they are 
poisonous. 

The best plan to remove all peril from using 
them is to examine every one that is gathered^ and 
if doubtful throw it away. Real mushrooms, says 
Worthington Smith in his little treatise, ' Mush- 
rooms and Toadstools,' are known by their beautiful 
pink gills not reaching the stem, which stem carries 
a well-marked white, woolly ring, by the very fleshy 
down-covered top, the delicious and enticing fra- 
grance, the firm white flesh sometimes inclined to 
pink when broken. 



70 GARDENING 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 

RAGOUT OF MUSHROOMS 

Hachis aux Champignons 

Take two dozen mushrooms, dry them, and put them into 
a pan with a piece of butter. As soon as the butter has 
melted stir in a tablespoonful of flour, two glasses of beef 
gravy, salt, pepper, and a bay leaf. Cook till nearly reduced 
by one-half, and then pour it over a dish of hashed mutton. 
Mix well, and serve with small crusts of fried bread. (Dr. 
Cooke.) 

Mushroom Creams 

Stew some mushrooms in butter, flavour with pepper, 
salt, and lemon ; rub them through a fine wire sieve, and 
mix with the puree two tablespoonfuls of liquefied aspic jelly 
and half a pint of whipped cream ; thoroughly mix, and fill 
some small dariole moulds with the mixture and lay on ice. 
When firm turn out, and garnish with chervil and small 
cherry tomatoes. 

MUSTARD AND CRESS 

It is almost useless to write anything on this 
small salad, as its culture is so easy, but a book 
on vegetable culture would not be complete without 
it. They will grow in any soil or situation. 
Mustard is the native white mustard in its seed 
leaves, and cress is a cruciferous plant introduced 
before 1548, but from what country is not known. 
The sowing may be made throughout the year. 
From November to March it should be sown in 
boxes and put into a greenhouse, and from April 
to the middle of September it may be sown in the 
open ground. A change of soil must be made 



VEGETABLES 71 

occasionally. The seed should be sewn thickly, and 
the earth which covers it should be fine and thinly 
scattered on, for that planted in boxes it is best 
not to cover at all. Water must be given in dry 
weather. Sowings should be once a fortnight, and 
as cress is much slower in vegetating than mustard, 
the former should be sown five or six days earlier 
than the latter, so that they will be ready together. 
Eat it as soon as it is ready, when it is tender, green, 
and short, and before the rough leaves appear. 



ONIONS 

The soil which best suits onions is a sound, 
deep, and rich soil, yet moderately free, light, or 
sandy loam. The soil for planting them should be 
in a fertile and well pulverised condition ; a rather 
gritty soil makes the best seed bed, and where there 
is much clay other matter should be introduced into 
the soil. Coarse sand, burned refuse, are the best 
materials to favour successful growth. They also 
require liberal manuring. The ground should be 
well trenched and manured in the autumn, throwing 
up the surface in rough ridges, so that frost may 
act upon it thoroughly during the winter, and then 
in the spring it will break down beautifully, and 
then should be levelled and raked to a fine even 
surface and the seeds sown, which should be done 
during March, again in July and early in August 
for autumn growing, also early in September. 

Sow thinly in drills eight inches apart, and the 
beds should be about four feet wide, and after the 
seed is raked in, the surface of the bed should be 
beaten flat with a spade. In about three weeks the 



72 GARDENING 

beds should be hoed and thinned out^and these 
should be then young onions fit for salads. The 
beds should be again hoed and thinned out from 
time to time as the onions may be wanted. Care- 
fully remove all weeds, as they are very injurious 
to the crops, and let the air circulate freely 
among them. Onions sown in March will be ready 
to take up in August or September. It is a 
good plan about a month or six weeks before the 
onions are ready to take up, bend the stalk down 
flat on the bed, to throw all the strength of the 
plant into the bulb, and to prevent its thickening 
at the neck ; the bend should be made two inches 
from the neck. Watering is not often needed 
except after transplanting, which must be given for 
several successive evenings. 

A little liquid manure given twice a week is 
most beneficial to their growth. Watering the 
bulbs after they have attained to a reasonable size 
will do more harm than good. 

When onions are ready to take up, they should 
be drawn and dried on the ground, about ten 
days after which they may be gathered together 
and topped and tailed, and made into bunches or 
ropes. 

Onions of the largest size are obtained by sow- 
ing the seeds in August and pricking out the seed- 
lings from six inches to one foot in the early 
spring. In storing onions, any dry cool place will 
answer ; they may be hung in bunches on an open 
wall, under the shelter of the eaves of any building, 
but during frost they must be taken down and put 
into a dry place under cover ; damp starts them 
into growth, when they will have topped and 
tailed again. Onions may also be placed in heaps 



VEGETABLES 73 

in dry outhouses and well covered with matting, or 
simply laid in a thick layer on shelves, or on the 
floor of a dry cool room or shed. Properly stored 
onions do not decay readily, and if dry are not 
injured if exposed to a few degrees of frost. 
Onions are particularly liable to ravages from the 
Onion Fly (AntJwinyia cepa) and the Brassy Onion 
Fly i^Luiuerus). These pests cause the young onions 
when quite young to turn yellow and the leaves 
sink down on the ground, and the white portion 
is pierced to the centre by a fleshy shining grub 
a quarter of an inch long. 

The best remedy is to sprinkle gas-lime between 
the seedlings, as its fumes are offensive to the fly. 
A regular use of salt and soot is an effectual pre- 
ventive, and also spreading powdered charcoal 
among them, as the fly will deposit her eggs on it 
instead of the plant. The larvae will perish as soon 
as hatched. Also sprinkle the bed with coarse salt, 
which will not only destroy the grub but also act 
as manure to the roots. 

In dull weather mildew may be found in a 
spring onion bed. The only thing likely to do 
good is to dust the plants with sulphur, and a 
sprinkling of nitrate of soda would help the plant 
to grow out of it. 

The best kinds to grow are : Sutton's Giant 
Blood-red Rocca, Sutton's Silver Globe, Sutton's 
Giant Zittau and Bedfordshire Champion (both 
good keepers), Ailsa Craig, Cranston's Excelsior, 
Trebons, James Keeping. 



74 GARDENING 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Onions a la Don Carlos 

Take a Spanish onion, and cut a thick sHce from the 
base, parboil it, then throw it into cold water, dry it, and 
scoop out the inside, and fill it with a mixture of pork 
sausage-meat and mashed potatoes in equal parts, mixed 
together with the yolk of an tgg ; have ready a small piece 
of boiled ham, and place under the onion ; add a good 
brown gravy, and serve hot. 

Onion a I'Etoile 

Take a large onion, core it with the column cutter, then 
cut it down within two inches of the bottom in divisions like 
an orange, so that it has somewhat the appearance of a star. 
Make a mince of beef or mutton, flavour it highly, and fill 
in the onion with it ; tie the onion round in its original form 
until it is cooked, to prevent the mince falling out ; and 
when it is cooked cut the string, and dish up with brown 
celery sauce round it. 

Onions Cornish Fashion 

Boil some onions, chop them up, add half their bulk of 
mashed potatoes, and a fair proportion of butter, salt, 
pepper, and finely chopped parsley. Mix all well together, 
and put into a baking dish, and when it is quite hot serve 
immediately. 

PARSLEY 

This is a biennial, a native of Sardinia, and was 
known in England prior to 1 548. 

Parsley is much more difficult to grow well than 
most people imagine, and good, deep, rich soil is 



VEGETABLES 75 

needed, well trenched and manured. The best 
time for sowing it is at the end of February, and 
then in March, June, and July. The ground should 
be tolerably dry, and, as the seed is very small, it 
should be drilled shallowly in a fine seed bed, and 
the seed covered with three-quarters of an inch of 
fine mould, and then top-dress with soot as soon as 
the plants show through the surface. 

Parsley will stand a moderate degree of frost, 
but sharp ones cut it down ; therefore it should be 
covered with litter during the winter. 

For winter it is always desirable to place hand 
glasses over portions of it during the winter, or 
potting up bundles of the roots and place them into 
gentle warmth. 

Soot is an excellent manure for it and preserves 
it from root-canker, the only disease which affects 
it. The plants do not seed till they are two years 
old. There are three kinds of parsley- — the com- 
mon plain-leaved, the curly-leaved, and the fern- 
leaved. The latter is a distinct foliage, and used 
for garnishing. 

The best kinds to plant are Sutton's Imperial 
Curled, Sutton's Emerald Gem, and Fern Leaved. 



PARSNIPS 

The parsnip is a very nutritious root. It con- 
tains three times more flesh-forming and strength- 
giving qualities than the potato, and only half the 
quantity of starch. 

The parsnip is a hardy biennial plant, a native 
of England, and is almost frost-proof except in 
very damp or heavy soils. 



76 GARDENING 

The soil should be rich, deep, and loamy. An 
important point is that the soil should be deep, so 
that the root can strike down to its fullest extent, 
or otherwise the long, straight roots cannot grow 
properly. 

For sowing, the ground should be deeply tilled 
in autumn and left rough during winter, and in 
March the ground should be levelled, and then 
trenched to a depth of about three feet. Plenty of 
rather rough littery manure should be worked in at 
the bottom of the trenches, but the surface soil 
must not contain anything of a rank or coarse 
description. Burnt earth and rubbish, leaf mould, 
and old rotten hotbed manure are the most suitable 
dressing for the surface. The seed should be sown 
about the middle of March unless the ground is 
wet and cold, as those circumstances would be fatal 
to it. The drills should be shallow and eighteen 
inches apart ; cover lightly and finish with the 
rake. As soon as the plants are large enough, 
they must be thinned out to ten or twelve inches 
apart, or a little more if very large roots are required. 

The ground should be kept very clean, and 
constantly looked over to remove all seedlings that 
may start afresh, and frequently hoed, and all weeds 
must be removed. The roots do not attain 
maturity till October, which is known by the decay 
of the leaves. If necessary, a little nitrate of soda 
sprinkled between the rows just before a shower 
greatly stimulates the crop. 

Parsnips will keep in good condition if left in 
the ground and used as wanted, instead of storing 
them. They must, however, be all out of the 
ground before growth recommences in the spring, 
otherwise they will vegetate. 



VEGETABLES 77 

The best kinds to grow are Guernsey or Jersey- 
Marrow, Elcombe's Improved, and Hollow Crown. 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Fried Parsnips 

Boil the parsnips, after scraping them, in salt and water, 
drain, and dry them, and cut into lengthwise slices ; dip in 
melted butter, mix some salt and pepper into some flour, 
and fry. 

Parsnips a la Creme 

Take two large parsnips, and boil till quite tender ; drain 
and cut them into finger lengths, cook them a few minutes 
longer in white sauce, then pour in a cupful of cream, and 
add two hard-boiled eggs ; cut into small pieces, and serve 
quickly. 

PEAS 

The pea is a native of the South of Europe, but 
was not known in France till the middle of the 
sixteenth century. They were grown but never 
eaten till a gardener named Michaux first intro- 
duced them as a table vegetable, and was then 
brought into England in the reign of Henry VHI. 
It is one of our most important crops, and must be 
liberally treated to be successfully grown. A deep 
rich soil, well pulverised and well manured, should 
be chosen for the main crop in summer. For the 
early peas the ground does not require to be so 
rich. 

From February on to June successional sowings 
should be made. In sowing them on light dry 
soils it is best to make deep trenches in which a 



78 GARDENING 

heavy dressing of manure is put, with only a few 
inches of soil on the top to receive the seed. The 
distances between the rows must be regulated by 
the height of the varieties grown, the taller varieties 
five or six feet, those of ordinary height three or 
four feet apart As soon as the seeds are sown, 
place pea-guards all over them, to prevent the birds 
eating the seeds, as the sparrows make great 
depredations on them. If pea-guards are not used, 
the only other way to protect them is to place a 
short stick at each end of the row, and then fasten 
from one to the other a single black thread at a 
distance of two or three inches above the ground ; 
but the galvanised pea-guards are the surest means, 
and they come in very usefully at other times, and 
last for years. Sticking the peas should commence 
as soon as the peas are three inches high. 

The dwarf kinds can be grown without sticks, 
but even they are benefited, being kept from the 
ground. Before sticking them they should be hoed, 
and earth drawn round their stems. 

When the summer sowings are made, if the 
weather is dry, the seed should be soaked in water 
for two or three hours previous, and the drills well 
watered. 

Slugs are great enemies to peas ; therefore soot 
and lime should be scattered round the young 
plants on their first appearance, and greasy cab- 
bage leaves placed near quicklime, thinly put over 
the ground where the peas are to be planted, and 
then forked over, is a good plan, and soot dusted 
over when they begin to appear. In dry weather 
they must be zvell supplied with water, and I con- 
sider Sutton's advice to open a shallow trench 
about a foot distant from the rows on the shady 



VEGETABLES -jc) 

side, and pour the water into this, so as to fill the 
trench, is the best plan ; and if they are planted 
in rows, watering should be done between them. 

Peas are generally eaten when not more than a 
quarter ripe, and should be used as soon as possible 
after gathering, as they injure by keeping more 
than any other kind of vegetable. 

It is a good plan to top the leading shoots of 
the early crops as soon as they are in blossom, as 
it greatly hastens the setting and maturity of the 
fruit. 

Great care must be taken when gathering the 
peas not to injure the haulm or stem, which causes 
the loss of many young plants. Johnson recom- 
mends the pods should be cut off with the scissors, 
as the plants produce one-fourth more than when 
roughly gathered from ; and if regularly gathered 
from, the longer they continue their production, as 
the later pods never attain maturity if the earlier 
ones are allowed to grow old before they are 
gathered. 

The best kinds to grow are : — 

American Wonder and Kentish Invicta for the 
earliest sowing ; Veitch's Ne Plus Ultra and 
Laxton's Fell Basket. In the second sowing and 
for the main crop, Veitch's Perfection, Champion 
of England, and Victoria Marrow. 

The Duke of Edinburgh Pea grows very late, 
and keeps on growing, flowering, and podding 
continuously, affording an unbroken supply for 
eight or ten weeks at a stretch. 

For those who have not much space the 
Exonian is very good : it grows very compactly, 
and to about three feet in height. Late peas 
ought to have a deep and fairly rich root run, and 



8o GARDENING 

the soil so drawn up to the rows to form a basin, 
holding the copious waterings that must be given 
in August and early part of September. 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Croquettes of Peas 

Boil some peas till tender in plenty of water, with a large 
bunch of mint and a tiny piece of soda. Drain very tho- 
roughly, then beat to a pulp with a wooden spoon ; to every 
four tablespoonfuls of pulp add one ounce of butter, half a 
teaspoonful of pepper, ditto of salt, one tablespooiiful of 
cooked bacon cut into very tiny shreds, the beaten yolk of 
one ^^g ; mix well together, and add sufficient breadcrumbs 
to make a panada ; roll into small balls the size of a 
nectarine, ^%% and breadcrumb them twice, and fry a nice 
golden brown ; pile in the centre of a dish, garnish with 
fried parsley, and surround with a puree of green peas made 
with cream. 

Peas a la Francaise 

Put a quart of peas with two ounces of butter and one of 
flour into a stewpan, and mix over the fire till the butter is 
melted. Add a sprig of parsley, one or two small onions, 
a bunch of mint, a little salt and sugar, and a pint of stock. 
Put the lid on, and stew the peas for half an hour over a 
slow fire. Then drain them on a colander, remove the 
parsley and onion, add a little more butter, and serve. 



PEPERONI 

This is a plant little known to England, and is 
much grown in Italy, and Naples in particular. 
It is a large glossy-looking fruit, very hot and 



VEGETABLES 8i 

sweet, and the skin resembles the tomato, and, like 
that plant, there are the red and yellow species. 
They will grow quite well in England, and should 
be grown in the same way as tomatoes, and I 
should advise anyone having a small greenhouse 
to try and grow them, as a variety of relishing 
dishes can be made from them. 

They can be stuffed as tomatoes, and if dished 
up, the two colours alternately, they form a very 
pretty savoury. 

POTATO 

The potato was first brought to England from 
Virginia by Sir Walter Raleigh, which, of course, is 
known by everybody. Loudon says it was formerly 
called the Potato of Virginia, and was thought at 
first very inferior to the Convolvulus Batatus, which 
was called the Spanish Potato, and the Jerusalem 
Artichoke, which was called the Potato of Canada. 

Very few gardens give space enough to culti- 
vate potatoes for the entire household use, but 
where space can be found, I shouid advise their 
cultivation. 

The soil to ensure a full yield of potatoes 
should be moderately rich, yet the use of ordinary 
farmyard and stable manure to more than a very 
moderate extent has, though increasing the quantity 
of the crop up to a certain point, a very hurtful 
effect upon the quality of the tubers, rendering 
them soft and watery, and incapable of being kept 
for any length of time. Dwarf varieties will bear 
more manure uninjured than such as possess a 
strong habit of growth. 

The best time for planting potatoes is in March, 

G 



82 GARDENING 

nearer the end than the beginning. Plenty of 
space should be given between the rows (two feet 
for early varieties and two and a half to three feet 
for second early and main crop), and planted near 
the surface and earthing up deeply, which are most 
important, as the haulm makes strong growth and 
the tubers develop freely in the freshly worked 
soil, whilst the superfluous moisture is carried off 
by the deep furrows on each side of the row. The 
ground intended for potato cultivation should be 
deeply dug before Christmas with a heavy dressing 
of leaves buried in it, which should have been 
lying by for some time previous ; then the shallow 
drills should be made and the sets put in in rows of 
twelve to fifteen inches apart. Then cover in with 
a hoe, and as the growth appears above the surface 
the soil should be drawn up round them and the 
weeds hoed out. The final earthing up should not 
take place till the haulms have grown a good 
height, and then it is a good plan to sprinkle a little 
artificial manure between the rows. 

Frost is a deadly enemy to potatoes, and the 
morning frosts in May are very inimical to them ; 
one hard frost will blacken and almost destroy 
them. 

If light dry litter be placed a few inches over 
them it will be found a great safeguard to frosty 
weather. Sutton advises a few stout pegs on which 
mats can be laid as being most efficacious. 

It is needless to say here that potatoes are 
liable to the potato disease, as it is only too well 
known the murrain or disease is a potato fungus, 
and is supposed to be the result of much wet and 
cold at the period of closing growth, when all bulbs 
and tubers require an extra degree of dryness and 



VEGETABLES 83 

warmth ; the stem decays, and a smell of putrefac- 
tion is present, and the increased specific gravity of 
the potato amounts to one-third more than that of 
a healthy tuber ; when boiled the potato turns black. 

Many gardeners slice the tubers into pieces con- 
taining^- two or three eyes, and some cut the tubers 
directly into halves, but the best results are obtained 
from planting them whole of medium size. 

Saving the Tubers. — The medium sized tubers 
should form the most prolific roots for plant- 
ing next year. Dry them by exposure to the sun 
for two or three days till they become slightly green, 
then store them in a dry place, laying them, out thinly, 
and looking over them occasionally to remove any 
diseased ones. 

The tubers should not be dug up till the tops 
are quite dead, and then a dry day should be 
chosen. Be careful in lifting the skin is not 
bruised. Rub off any sprouts that may grow till 
February, when the tubers should be set on end in 
layers in shallow boxes, and placed in a light cool 
shed where frost cannot penetrate ; the sprouts will 
then begin to grow strong, and when planted these 
should be half an inch long ; but it is a good plan for 
amateurs to buy the tubers from Sutton or some 
other good seedsman to begin. When they have 
some experience in potato growing they can then 
save their tubers for seed. 

Potato Disease.— A solution of sulphate of 
copper and lime, mixed and applied with a syringe 
before the disease has attacked the plants to any 
extent, will mitigate its further progress and 
ensure a healthy growth. The proportions are 
22 lb. of the sulphate and 22 lb. of lime to 100 gal- 
lons of water to an acre of ground. The lime must 



84 GARDENING 

be fresh and quick, and the purest sulphate of 
copper, and well mixed. Give one dressing before 
the disease appears at all on the foliage, about the 
first or second week of July, and a second one three 
weeks later. 

Some of the best kinds to grow are — 

Myatt's Ash Leaf Kidney — a fine old variety 
and early. 

Early Rose— early and abundant. 

Beauty of Hebrew — early and heavy cropper. 

White Elephant — second enormous cropper. 

Reading Giant — main crop very fine and very 
abundant cropper. 

Schoolmaster — main crop very fine. 

Rosette — late crop. 

Magnum Bonum — main crop. 

Scottish Beauty— late crop. 

Sutton's Masterpiece. 

Imperatum. 

Preserving Potatoes. — Plunge the tubers 
before storing them away for ten hours in a 2 
per cent, solution of commercial sulphuric acid 
and water — 2 parts of acid to lOO parts of 
water. The acid penetrates the eyes to a depth 
of about one-fortieth of an inch, which serves to 
destroy their sprouting power. It does not have 
any appreciable effect on the skin of the potatoes. 
After remaining in the liquid ten hours, the tubers 
must be thoroughly dried before storing away. 
The same liquid may be used any number of times 
with equally good results. 

This process has been adopted by the French 
Government for the preservation of the potatoes for 
the army. 



VEGETABLES 85 

RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Pommes de Terre Farcies 

Bake the potatoes, and, when nearly done, cut oft a 
circular piece from the upper part, and scoop out a portion 
of the pulp, leaving about an inch of thickness under the 
peel. Then have ready some well-minced fricassee or force- 
meat, butter the inside of the potato, and fill up the cavity 
with the mince heaped up in a point at the opening ; touch it 
over with raw yolk of ^%%^ and put the potatoes again into 
the Dutch oven or brown them with a salamander. The 
skins should be rubbed with butter to render them crisp, or 
they are likely to become too hard to be peeled without 
breaking the potatoes ; but if not, a portion of it should be 
cut off. 

Potatoes a I'ltalienne 

Take enough mealy potatoes to make a good dish boiled 
dry ; two tablespoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful of 
butter, salt, and pepper ; two eggs, yolks and whites beaten 
separately. 

Whip up the potatoes while hot with a silver fork, which 
dries the potato from all superfluous moisture. When it is 
fine and mealy beat in the cream, the butter, salt, pepper, 
and whip up to a creamy heap before mixing in the whites, 
which should be first whipped stiff". Pile irregularly upon a 
buttered pie-dish ; brown quickly in the oven ; slip care- 
fully on to a heated flat dish, and serve. 



86 GARDENING 

Princess Potatoes 

Boil one pound of potatoes, and steam them dry as pos- 
sible, pass them through a wire sieve, and mix with them an 
ounce and a half of butter, one yolk of t.%%^ and one ounce of 
grated Parmesan cheese, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cay- 
enne pepper. Mix well together, and when cold roll the 
mixture into little rolls, using a little flour while doing so to 
prevent the mixture sticking. The rolls should be an inch 
and a half long and an inch in diameter. Place them on a 
buttered baking tin, brush over with a whole beaten-up ^g^^ 
and fry them till a pale gold colour. When dished up pour 
a little warmed butter over them, and sprinkle over with 
finely chopped dried parsley. 

RADISHES 

Radishes were introduced into England from 
China before 1584. 

The Greeks esteemed radishes above all other 
roots, and it is recorded that in the oblations 
of garden fruits which they offered to Apollo in 
his temple at Delphos, radishes were presented 
in beaten gold, whilst other kinds were offered in 
lead and silver. 

The way to obtain good radishes is to grow 
them quickly in rich soil and with enough moisture 
to keep the roots swelling steadily and freely. 

The quicker a radish is grown the more 
delicious it is. The seeds should be sown in a 
rather light soil in an open sunny position, the soil 
dug deeply, burying plenty of half-rotted manure 
down in the bottom of the trenches, where it should 
lie for two or three weeks longer for the weather to 
act upon and to render the surface fine. It should 
be raked to a fine even surface, adding road scrap- 



VEGETABLES 87 

ings or leaf mould, with a sprinkling of soot. The 
seed should be sown broadcast, but not too thickly ; 
rake it in lightly, and where the soil is light, make 
the surface firm with the back of the spade. It 
should be kept moist but not wet. During the 
summer a sowing should be made about every ten 
days to produce a regular supply. 

From October to February sow in frames ; after 
that sowings may be planted in the open on warm 
borders, with a little light litter or fern over, or 
matting supported by sticks. 

When the seedlings are well up they should be 
thinned, and in dry weather should be watered 
regularly every night. The seedlings are in general 
up in less than a week, and in six weeks they should 
be ready to take. 

When the plants are in frames the glasses 
should be closed of an afternoon, and, whenever 
the earth appears dry, light watering must be given 
at noon. 

There are several varieties of the radish — spring 
varieties, autumn and winter varieties, and turnip- 
rooted and long radishes. 

The best all round kinds are the French Break- 
fast Radish, Sutton's Early Crimson, Sutton's Gem, 
Sutton's Black Summer (turnip), Sutton's Long 
Rose, and Black Spanish for winter varieties. 



RECIPE 
Radish Sandwiches 

Slice turnip radishes very thinly, and lay them on bread- 
and-butter, with a little shredded lettuce dipped in oil and 
vinegar ; add pepper and salt, and place between slices of 
buttered bread in the usual manner. 



88 GARDENING 



SAGE 

This herb thrives best in a light and well-drained 
and sandy loam, and is usually raised from cuttings 
formed of the young- side shoots taken in April or 
May, inserted under a hand-light, and kept slightly 
moist and lightly shaded until started. A fresh 
stock ought to be raised every three or four years, 
as after that time the old plants get worn out and 
straggling. If the plants are cut down too closely 
they die out. 



SALSIFY AND SCORZONERA 

To grow them the ground should be prepared 
in autumn in the same way as for parsnips, and the 
seed should be sown in drills fifteen inches apart, 
and the plants thinned out afterwards to eight or 
ten inches apart in the row. Hoeing should go on 
perpetually in the summer, and in winter salsify 
should be taken up and stored the same as for 
carrots. 

Scorzonera is similar to salsify, and should be 
treated in a similar manner. 

Unless a garden is fairly large 1 would not 
advise either of these being grown, as they are not 
to everybody's liking. 

RECIPES 
To Dress Salsify 

Scrape the roots, and lay them in cold water for fifteen 
minutes. Boil whole till tender, drain, and when cooked 
mash them to a paste, taking out all the fibres ; moisten 



VEGETABLES 89 

with a little milk. Add a tablespoonful of butter, and an 
^%% and a half for every cupful of salsify. Beat the eggs 
light, make into round cakes, dredge with flour, and fry 
brown. 

Scorzonera in Brown Sauce 

Wash and scrape the skin off gently from the roots, and 
cut them into lengths of three or four inches ; put them into 
boiling water with a little salt butter and the juice of a 
lemon ; boil for an hour, then drain, and serve with a rich 
brown sauce over them. 

SAVORY 

This consists of two kinds, the summer, which 
is an annual, and should be sown in April and 
afterwards thinned out ; and the winter savory, 
which is increased by division of the roots in April. 

SEA KALE 

Sea kale is one of the most delicious vegetables 
grown for culinary purposes, and those who 
possess a small vegetable garden should grow it, 
for it is not at all difficult, and is generally expensive 
to buy. 

Sea kale plants are propagated in two ways, 
one by sowing seed and the other by means of root 
cuttings ; but for amateurs I advise to raise from 
cuttings, as it takes two years to raise plants from 
seeds. In the first place, I should advise buying a 
few full-grown crowns and planting them, and then 
from them take cuttings or seeds for another 
season. March is the best time to plant the roots. 
It will succeed in almost any soil, provided it is 
deeply dug and ivell manured. The ground should 



90 GARDENING 

be trenched two feet deep, and as much vegetable 
refuse and road sand should be worked in within 
one foot of the surface. 

When the roots are received early in March cut 
off the crown just below the junction of the leaves 
with it, or else a truss of bloom will grow from each 
crown and will interfere with the expected crop. 

When the crown is cut off, two and sometimes 
more shoots spring from it, which should be thinned 
down to one, selecting the strongest. Plant the 
roots (three) anglewise six inches apart and two 
feet six inches between each clump. Cover the 
heads with two inches of soil. Keep the ground 
from weeds and continually stirred with a Dutch 
hoe. 

In summer it should have plenty of water, 
liquid manure, and mulchings of rich stuff. 

As the leaves decay in autumn they must be 
taken away and the ground kept clean and 
manured. 

The sea kale pots should be uncovered every 
now and then to see how it is growing, and some 
days left a little open for a few minutes to let in air 
to them ; but darkness is required, so that the kale 
may grow perfectly blanched. 

Forcing. — The crowns should be lifted about 
the middle of October and then placed into the 
earth and given a month's rest before planting 
them again ; then in the middle of November 
have a box or boxes about two feet square and 
eighteen inches deep, and put in the bottom six 
inches of soil and place the box in a temperature 
of 60°, and keep it there till the sea kale is ready, 
which it ought to be in a month's time. At the 



VEGETABLES 91 

beginning of the year sea kale pots should be 
placed over the crowns. 

When preparing the roots for forcing, save the 
best pieces of the trimmings to be used as sets in 
the spring, and thus keep up the stock. All pieces 
the thickness of a cigarette should be thrown by 
themselves and stored in sand in a shed till the 
spring, when they should be planted out, and the 
season after they will be again fit to use. 

When sea kale is forced in the open ground 
it should be covered with sea kale pots, and 
surrounded with fermenting manure, or buried in 
a couple of feet of half decayed leaves, and these 
again with hot manure. Salt is a very good fertiliser 
to use. 

Before placing the pots on, each crown should 
be dusted over with quicklime to destroy all worms 
and slugs. 

The heat had better be too low than too high ; 
a few coal ashes are good to use in the coldest 
weather, just enough to cover the crowns, which 
prevents the slugs eating into the crowns when the 
kale is cut. 

The sea kale pots, when not in use, can be 
utilised for planting geraniums and other summer 
plants in, and stood in front of a greenhouse, or 
down garden walks, or at entrances to the house. 

Sea kale should be cut near enough to the crown 
for the head to remain intact. The most usual 
method is to cut the whole crown off bodily as 
soon as ready. 



92 GARDENING 

RECIPE FOR COOKING 
Sea Kale au Jus 

Boil the sea kale in salted water, drain it, and put it into 
a saucepan with as much good gravy as will cover it, and 
stew till tender. Lay the sea kale into the dish it is to be 
served in, and boil up the gravy ; thicken with a little butter 
and flour, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and pour 
it over. 

SHALLOTS 

February is a good time to grow shallots ; if the 
soil is stiff it should be heavily dressed with fresh 
manure in autumn, but if light, well rotted manure 
should be dug in at planting time. Shallots like a 
firm soil ; a little lime worked in does wonders in 
shallot growing. The beds should be four feet in 
width, and raised one foot or eighteen inches above 
the paths. The bulbs should be planted shallow, 
nine inches apart and one foot between the rows. 
They must not be pressed too far into the ground 
though, as the roots go pretty deep into the soil. 
Birds and worms frequently lift the bulbs from the 
ground ; therefore it is well to go over the bed 
occasionally and replace those removed. Frequent 
use of the Dutch hoe is necessary to keep the soil 
free, and weak liquid manure should be occasion- 
ally given during the growing season. The best 
bulbs to grow are those of middle size. The best 
kinds to grow are Yorkshire Hero, Jersey, and 
Sutton's Giant. 



VEGETABLES 93 



SORREL 

Sorrel thrives best in any rich, light, garden soil, 
and is propagated by seed and by parting the roots. 
The seed should be sown in March and April, and 
the roots parted in September and October. To 
sow the seed make drills six inches apart and a 
quarter of an inch deep, and when the seedlings 
are two or three inches high, they should be thinned 
to three or four inches apart. The bed must be 
kept free from weeds and watered occasionally in 
very dry weather. 

In September the entire crop should be trans- 
ferred to fresh ground, allowing eighteen inches 
between the plants, or part may be withdrawn. 

To divide the roots, take and set them at once 
where they are to remain, in rows eighteen inches 
apart. In summer the stalks must be cut down 
to encourage the production of the leaves. 

The French sorrel is the best sort to grow. 



RECIPES FOR COOKING 
Sorrel a la Francaise 

Take some sorrel, pick off the stems, and wash the leaves 
in several waters, then put them into a stewpan with a pint 
of boiling water in which some salt has been dissolved, and 
let boil till tender ; then drain it and rub it through a wire 
sieve. Put into a saucepan with plenty of butter, a dessert- 
spoonful of flour, and a little pepper. Stir over fire till it 
boils. Add three tablespoonfuls of cream. 



94 GARDENING 



Sorrel Fried in Batter 

Make a small quantity of frying batter, and take the 
middle leaves of the sorrel ; wash them in two or three waters, 
drain them, and trim them. Dip them into the batter, and 
fry in hot fat till crisp and brown. Serve hot, garnished with 
fried parsley. 

SPINACH 

Spinach is very easy to cultivate ; it only 
requires to sow the seed broadcast or in drills in 
moderately rich good ground, loam or clay, and 
when up thin it out to a few inches apart. If the 
plants run to seed soon after it comes up, as it often 
does, the reason is the ground is too light, poor, or 
dry, and weather too hot, and in this case the 
ground requires to be made deeper and richer. 
There are four kinds of spinach, the smooth 
seeded or summer spinach and the prickly seeded 
or winter spinach. Mountain spinach and New 
Zealand spinach. The first should be sown in 
drills a foot apart and an inch deep every three or 
four weeks from the middle of February till August, 
and when well up to be thinned out to six inches 
apart ; keep it moist at the root. 

The winter spinach should be sown in August 
and up to the first week in September. The soil 
should be firm and moderately rich, and the plants 
thinned out to nine inches apart. 

Watering the plants with a solution of nitrate of 
soda, the strength of an ounce to a gallon of water, 
produces large leaves in abundance. Soot is good 
to put to the roots also. 

New Zealand spinach is sown in heat in March 



VEGETABLES 95 

or April, and the plants turned out in June into 
very rich soil in a sunny situation, allowing plenty 
of room. 

Mountain spinach, also called Arach, is a hardy 
annual, and grows very large ; it should be allowed 
a distance of about eighteen inches, and in rows two 
feet apart. 

There is a variety of the summer spinach called 
Flanders spinach, with large thick leaves, and 
another called lettuce-leaved, the leaves of which 
are still larger and very dark green in colour. 

For small gardens the perpetual spinach, or 
spinach beet, is most useful, as it requires so little 
trouble ; it is a totally distinct spinach frgp the 
other kinds. 

The summer crop, when gathered, should be 
pulled up by the root unless it {'^perpetual, but the 
winter crop should only have the outer leaves 
gathered, and it will then continue producing fresh 
leaves for many months. 

The best kinds to grow are Perpetual, or 
Spinach Beet ; round for summer use, prickly for 
winter use. 



RECIPE FOR COOKING 

Spinach ^ la Fran^aise 

Boil the spinach with scarcely any water to it (but it 
must be boiling) and just a piece of soda the size of a pea, 
and a little salt ; boil for ten minutes, press down with a 
spoon, drain and squeeze, and throw it into cold water to 
preserve the green colour. Drain, and pass it through a 
wire sieve, and then return it to the saucepan with a little 
salt, a piece of fresh butter, an eggspoonful of castor sugar, 



96 GARDENING 

the squeeze of a lemon, and a gill of cream. Heat up in the 
saucepan after stirring it well ; press it into a plain mould 
and turn it out, or else, after turning out, cut it into the shape 
of diamonds and arrange it en coiiro7tne^ like cutlets. 



TARRAGON 

This herb is propagated annually by means of 
cuttings or division in the spring, say about March 
or April, and the pieces planted eight inches apart 
in rows, covering them rather more than two inches 
deep, or cuttings may be taken in July and rooted 
under a hand glass, keeping them moist and 
shaded. For winter use the plants should be cut 
over in August and lifted, and potted in September, 
keeping them in a cool frame for a time, then 
removing to a greenhouse shelf, where they will 
continue growing all the winter. 

THYME 

There are three kinds of variety of thyme, the 
broad leaved, the narrow leaved, and the variegated, 
and grows best in eight-inch soil, and should be 
divided occasionally to keep the plants vigorous. 
Seeds should be sown thinly in pans of sand and 
rich soil in March under glass and planted out in 
May, though it is best to propagate by cuttings and 
to buy the roots. 



LEMON THYME 

This herb is of much larger growth, and 
possesses a most delightful odour and flavour, and 
is most generally preferred to the other. They are 



VEGETABLES 97 

both increased by division of the tufted shoots, and 
the rooted bits planted out singly in March or 
April ; layered shoots also strike readily. 



TOMATO 

Tomatoes can be raised from seed in any 
ordinary hotbed or shelf in a greenhouse. The 
hotbed should be about three feet high at back 
and two and a half feet at front, and the seeds 
should be sown broadcast. They come very 
strongly treated in that way. As soon as the 
plants come up, whenever the weather is mild 
they may be sown in pots and the plants pricked 
off when large enough. After potting off warm 
covering will be necessary at night. The chief 
requirements are some good rich soil composed of 
loam, leaf mould, and manure, two parts of the 
former and one of the latter. Plant from twelve to 
eighteen inches apart ; air should be freely given in 
all stages. When the plants are well set with fruit, 
liquid manure should be given two or three times a 
week. 

For planting tomatoes in the open, seeds should 
be sown not later than March and placed in a 
greenhouse or frame, and when the plants are up 
and thinned, and the time for planting arrives, they 
can be planted out not later than June against a 
sunny wall. The plants ought to be turned out with 
the ball entire, only just loosening a few of the 
roots to enable them to get hold of the new ground 
quickly. 

When the plants are making strong growth, 
and if they stand at all closely together, it is well 

H 



98 GARDENING 

to shorten the lower leaves when the plants have 
commenced fruiting, as it is desirable to let in air 
and sunshine ; half a leaf will be better to cut away 
than cutting away altogether. 

If dark spots appear on the tomato leaves in 
the greenhouse, the plant will be affected with 
the tomato disease, which are fungus growths 
brought on from want of ventilation, or with shut- 
ting up the house closely at night, with too much 
moisture about. They will require freer ventila- 
tion, and the under sides of the leaves dusted with 
sulphur and the atmosphere kept dry, especially 
towards evening. Cut away and burn all the 
worst affected leaves. 

In excessively hot weather, where the tomatoes 
are under glass, they require an immense amount 
of water, and the difficulty is to give them enough ; 
they should never be watered less than twice a 
day. 

It is a good sign that the plants are healthy 
and doing well when some of the older leaves curl 
up. 

If the plants are very luxuriant the secondary 
shoots should be stopped. 

Training the plants may commence as soon as 
the branches are a foot long, and continued 
throughout their growth. Where there is no wall or 
palings to train them on, they may be trained with 
stakes as espaliers. The plants should never be 
topped whilst there is head room for them, as 
early topping curtails their productiveness greatly. 
If tomatoes do not colour, and it is getting too 
late for them to do so, if they are of a usable size 
they should be gathered and placed in a sunny 
window, or. on the ledge of a warm house, or on 



VEGETABLES 99 

shelves in the kitchen they will ripen and colour 
well, or they may be cut in bunches with a portion 
of the stem attached and hung up wherever there 
is warmth. 

Tomatoes are liable to be affected with the 
disease known as Cladosporium fulvuin, which is 
generally the result of a too close warm and moist 
atmosphere. The worst affected leaves should be cut 
off and burnt, and if the plants are at all crowded, 
shorten back all the lower leaves considerably to 
admit light and air. The house should be venti- 
lated night and day, and on wet cold dull days a 
gentle fire heat should be used, and only just 
enough water to keep the plants fresh and 
growing. 

A little nitrate of soda dissolved in the water 
once or twice a week will help. 

The best varieties for the open ground — 
Laxton's Open-air, Mikado, Carter's Greengage, 
Sutton's Golden Nugget, Golden Eagle, Sutton's 
Dessert. 

Against walls —Perfection, Golden Queen, Hors- 
ford's Prelude, Conference. 

The latter two are deliciously sweet, and two 
of the best setters ever raised. 

Hathaway's Excelsior is a capital tomato, grows 
both under glass and in the open. 

The very small fruited varieties are Red and 
Yellow Cherry, and Sutton's Cluster Red Currant. 



II 2 



too GARDENING 

RECIPE FOR COOKING 
Tomatoes Farcies 

Take six tomatoes, cut a circle off the top of each, scoop 
out the insides, mince some shallots very fine, and toss them 
in butter with some finely minced parsley and a little grated 
Parmesan cheese ; add the tomato pulp to this, and then 
fill the tomatoes; put on the tops again, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

There are so many delicious recipes for cooking tomatoes 
that it is difficult to select any in particular here, but I have 
a very large collection of many ways of cooking them, some 
of which will be found in my ' Savouries a la Mode ' and 
' Dressed Vegetables a la Mode,' from which tomato lovers 
can choose for themselves, and a great many in my nuuiu- 
script collection of vegetable cookery, foreign and English, 
any of which I will send to my readers if they like to send a 
shilling, which will be devoted to help young gentlewomen 
in perfecting themselves to endeavour to gain their own live- 
lihood. 

TURNIPS 

Turnips are not very easy to grow, especially 
during a dry season. The principal things are 
deep digging and liberal manuring, keeping the soil 
moist, and encouraging a rapid growth by means of 
frequent top dressings of wood ashes, soot, salt, and 
lime. The seeds should be sown in March and 
April, and on a plot of ground that has been deeply 
dug and heavily manured, and occupying a lightly 
shaded position ; but although deep and rich below, 
the bed must be quite sweet on the surface. 

The seed is generally sown broadcast, and the 



VEGETABLES loi 

seedlings when up thinned out to about a foot 
apart. 

The ground should be frequently hoed after the 
plants are up, so as to keep down weeds and air 
the soil to check evaporation. Burnt earth applied 
as a top dressing three or four times during growth 
has a wonderful effect upon the growth of the 
plants. 

A second sowing is generally made at the end 
of May and a third for the main crop towards the 
end of June. 

For early sowing, Sutton's Early Snowball, 
Early Milan, and Carter's Jersey Lily ; and for main 
crops, Veitch's Red Globe, Orange Jelly, White 
Stone, Red American Stone, and Chirk Castle 
Black Stone. For autumn and early winter supply, 
Orange Jelly and Chirk Castle Blackstone are best. 
The skin of the latter is black, but the flesh is white 
as snow, and possesses a finer and more delicate 
flavour than any other, and is perfectly hardy. 

There are also many kinds of turnips of French 
origin, such as the Long Forcing Paris, which 
resembles a large oval radish, the Long White 
Means, or Cowhorn Turnip, with long crooked 
roots like a deformed carrot, and the Yellow 
Finland. 

Turnips are very liable to the turnip fly pest, 
which makes great havoc among the young plants 
directly they appear above ground in dry weather. 
The principal safeguards are keeping the soil moist 
and frequent dustings of lime given when the 
foliage is wet with dew or rain. They are also 
liable to a disease called finger-and-toe, which is a 
fungus, and the only thing to do is to give a little 
gas lime. 



I02 GARDENING 

RECIPE FOR COOKING 

Curried Turnips 

Take some cooked turnips, fry them in butter with a Httle 
onion and a tablespoonful of curry powder, a teaspoonful of 
sugar, one of desiccated cocoanut, a grate of nutmeg, and 
half a teacupful of milk. Let all stew slowly for an hour. 
Serve with rice. 

VEGETABLE MARROWS 

Vegetable marrows should be sown in April 
under glass A temperature of 55° or 60° will 
soon cause the seed to vegetate. As soon as 
the plants form a rough leaf, they must be 
potted off singly in six-inch pots. Return them to 
a frame till re-established. The plants may then 
be gradually hardened off by opening the frames 
in the daytime, and their final planting out should 
take place at the end of May. It is of no use 
putting them out earlier, as they are so easily hurt 
by frost. 

When they have made a good start, the shoots 
must be stopped to make each throw out from six 
to eight leading stems, which can be trailed in 
different directions. As soon as fruit is set extra 
nutriment can be supplied to any extent by means 
of frequent applications of liquid manure, and, in 
dry weather, this assists the plants materially. 

Marrows should be cut, when cut, young, as the 
flavour is not only more delicate, but the plants 
will yield several times as many as when allowed 
to grow to a great size. 

The best kinds to grow are Sutton's Long 
White, Sutton's Long Cream, Improved Green 
Bush, and Improved Custard. 



VEGETABLES 103 

RECIPE FOR COOKING 
Vegetable Marrows Fried 

Take a couple of marrows, pare, seed, and quarter them, 
salt and pepper them, then let them marinade in a wineglass 
of vinegar and double the quantity of salad oil, and let them 
remain in it for half an hour. Then drain them, cover them 
with poivrade sauce, and stew till tender, and when ready 
sprinkle some grated Parmesan over, and serve quickly and 
hot. 

WATERCRESS 

Few people think of growing watercress. They 
are quite contented to buy it ; but it is so easy of 
culture, and its medicinal properties are so great, 
that I think that those who have gardens would find 
it most useful. In the days of our forefathers it used 
to be grown, as it was an important ingredient in 
* spring tea.' The ' Gardener ' writes : ' An individual 
named Bradbury, during the seventeenth century, 
was the first to cultivate it in this country (it hailed 
from Holland in the first instance). This man 
made use of some natural watercourses running 
through his market-garden for the purpose. He 
simply sowed the seeds in a ditch, and regulated 
the height of the water by means of dams of earth at 
regular intervals.' Where there are running streams 
it is a very easy matter, but it is not necessary to 
have a stream to grow them in, as they are easily 
cultivated in borders, and this must be done in 
September in a moist and shady border. The earth 
must be dug fine, and a slight trench drawn with 
the hoe, and fill this with water till it becomes mud. 



I04 GARDENING 

Cover it about an inch deep with drift sand, and 
then stick in the slips about six inches apart, water- 
ing them till established. The sand keeps the 
plants clean. They will be ready for gathering in 
a very few weeks, and must be cut and not picked. 
For planting in water see Johnson's ' Gardener's 
Dictionary.' 



USEFUL HINTS 



ARTIFICIAL MANURE 

Ichtheinic guano or Clay's Fertiliser are excel- 
lent manures. 

Decayed leaves, with weeds or other green 
vegetable matter added to them in a heap, together 
with some kitchen refuse, make a good manure. 
Cabbage, broccoli, and turnip leaves benefit any 
kind of soil. The leaves of the Brassica family 
emit a bad smell when decaying, but this can be 
remedied by covering them in the earth. 



CROSSING VEGETABLES 

The form and arrangement of the pistil and 
stamens vary much in different plants, and the signs 
of the former being in a fit state for inoculation are 
so different that only very general directions can 
be given in such a small treatise as this. 

To insure a perfect cross the anthers should be 
removed with a pair of small pliers before they 
begin to shed their pollen. When the stigma 
arrives at the proper stage, which is known by 
various signs, the pollen from the plant selected 
for the male parent must be applied to it either by 



io6 GARDENING 

applying the bloom itself or by means of a soft 
camel's-hair pencil. Cucumbers and marrows are 
very easily dealt with, all that is necessary being 
to apply pollen from the male bloom to that of the 
female at any time while expanded. 

It is best done early on a light day, when the 
sun is shining and the air is dry. 

DRYING OF HERBS 

Herbs should be gathered on a fine day when 
they are at their full growth and before they 
toughen. 

They should be cleansed from all grit and dust 
and dried in the oven as quickly as possible ; then 
pick the leaves and pound them to powder, each 
sort separately, and then put them into tightly 
corked glass pots. 

Chervil fennel and parsley may be dried from 
May till July. 

Mint-thyme and marjoram in June and July. 

Lemon-thyme, summer and winter savoury, and 
tarragon in July and August. 

Sage in August and September. 

It is well to have one pot of mixed fresh herbs, 
such as two ounces of parsley, chervil, and mar- 
joram ; one ounce of basil thyme, lemon thyme, 
and savoury ; and half an ounce of tarragon. 

GRASS SEED TO SOW 

Rake the lawn thoroughly first ; tear the ground 
up with the rake, and sprinkle fine earth all over 
very evenly ; put earth in a sieve to sprinkle it 
over, then sow the seeds and roll well ; roll about 



USEFUL HINTS 107 

three times lengthways and crosswise ; when the 
seeds show about an inch above ground, the ground 
should be rolled regularly. 

HOTBED (TO MAKE A) 

Stable manure and equal quantities of tree 
leaves make the best and most lasting hotbeds. The 
manure should be well shaken over and thrown 
into a heap to get warm. If there are no leaves 
to mix, the heap should be turned over, the outsides 
thrown into the middle, and the dry and damp 
spots well mixed. This is most necessary to give 
a lasting heat. A hotbed should be a foot wider 
on all sides than the frame ; the size and height 
must depend on what it is wanted for. The bed 
must be built up in layers, and after each layer 
pressure must be brought to bear on it as 
it is placed on the surface and well beaten down 
with a spade. The frame and lights should be put 
on immediately it is finished, and the bulb of a 
thermometer placed just inside the manure in the 
frame. The fresh material should be turned over 
twice or thrice for two weeks, and then the rank 
steam will be thrown away and the violent heat 
subsided. Nothing should be placed in the frame 
till the fiercest heat has passed off. It is fit for use 
when the heat does not exceed 80° or 85° 

LETHORION FUMIGATOR, AND 
HOW TO USE IT 

This is a first-rate fumigator, in the shape of 
cones, and all that is necessary is to remove the 
outside wrapper before burning the cone and see 



io8 GARDENING 

that the house is thoroughly secured before hght- 
ing the cone (thoroughly air-tight). A calm 
evening should be selected for the operation, and 
the cone must be well-lighted all round the top 
before leaving it in a house, when it will smoulder 
about half-way down in from ten to twenty minutes 
before emitting the vapour, which will continue 
until the contents of the small bottle inside the 
cone is exhausted. 

In calculating the number of cones required for 
large houses a reduction of 30 per cent, in cone 
power, commencing from 3,000 cubic feet and 
upwards, will be found of sufficient strength for 
ordinary aphis. Thus, too, No. 3 cones for a 
3,000 ft. house will suffice, but much depends upon 
the security of the house, as the vapour has great 
affinity for the outside air. 



LOAM 

Is earth easily worked at any season, and being 
sufficiently retentive, yet not so much so as to hold 
water. 

Maiden loam is the fat earth forming the top 
spit of a pasture ground, and that with a yellowish- 
brown is the best. 

Sandy loams are the easiest to work and yield 
the earliest produce. 

Chalky loams are early and fertile if there is 
not too much chalk. 

Clayey loams are bad to work either in wet or 
dry weather, being wet and sticky in one case and 
dry and cracking in the other. 



USEFUL HINTS 109 



NETTLES, TO DESTROY 

Keep cutting them down, and they will not stand 
this for long ; fork out the roots if possible, but 
care must be taken not to injure the roots of any of 
the shrubs near. As soon as they appear above 
ground, cut them over just under the surface of the 
ground with a hoe, and every time they sprout, hoe 
them down again, and they will soon disappear. 

PROTECTING VEGETABLES FROM 
FROST 

Cauliflowers showed the foliage bent down 
over their heads until nearly fit to cut. Then lift 
the plants and place them under cover out of reach 
of frost, or lay them in closely together out of doors, 
where mats and litter can be easily applied. 

Celery keeps safely if zvell earthed up, and a 
covering of litter placed over the tops of the hedges 
keeps the frost from penetrating, and lifting is much 
easier done. 

Carrots should be covered up with litter as soon 
as frost begins to penetrate. 

Turnips will stand a good amount of frost but 
not if exposed to freezing right through, and it is a 
good plan to pull up the roots in December and 
lay them in trenches, covering the roots right over 
with soil but leaving the tops exposed. 

SEEDS, TO SOW 

Seed-sowing is the chief and most general way 
of propagating plants. It is often more convenient 



no GARDENING 

to raise them by means of cuttings or layers, but 
vegetables especially are better increased by this 
means than in any other way. 

A moderately free or light, porous, and yet fairly 
rich soil is most necessary for successful germina- 
tion. The primary root of any seedling is very 
delicate, and the future vigour of the plant depends 
upon its strength and healthiness. If it strikes 
down deeply and easily into a free, rich, yet sweet 
moist soil bed, the young plant will flourish, but if 
checked in any form it will become unhealthy. 
The soil for seed-sowing must be mellow and fairly 
light for the young roots to penetrate it, porous to 
admit air to the feeding points, and rich, yet sweet 
to give enough nourishment to keep the seedling 
going. 

A moderate degree of moisture and a suitable 
temperature are necessary conditions. 



SPARROWS 

These are very destructive in most gardens, and 
if a few oats are scattered on a piece of ground and 
where limed twigs are placed they can be caught ; 
but the most humane way is to stretch black cotton 
backwards and forwards just above or at the side 
of any special plants, for then the birds catch their 
legs against the thread, which frightens them. 



INSECT PESTS 

Rich earth is often the cause of wireworms, and 
grubs, and common slugs, who revel in good soil. 
The best plan for the destruction of the wireworms 



USEFUL HINTS in 

and grubs is to water with soap-suds occasionally 
and to carefully pick out all that can be seen when 
cultivating the ground. The same course should 
be taken to kill slugs, but in addition quicklime 
should be not only well mixed with the soil when 
the bed is made, but sprinklings should be given 
late at night, so as to catch them when they are 
busy at work. 

It is a good plan to dress the ground intended 
for vegetable marrows with gas lime in the previous 
autumn, which kills the pests in the soil, besides 
partly manuring the ground. 



ANT TRAP 

Soap a sponge in water and wring it nearly dry, 
tjhen sprinkle it with sugar and lay it on a plate 
in the haunts of ants. When full, plunge it into 
boiling water. 

Boiling water poured over them will kill all it 
touches. Pieces of raw meat, or bones from which 
the meat has been cut, have a wonderful attraction 
for them : these should be thrown into scalding 
water. A strong solution of Sunlight soap, six 
ounces or eight ounces to the gallon, will destroy 
any insects. 

ASPARAGUS BEETLE 

This is a very pretty little beetle, but it does a 
great deal of damage, as it injures the foliage and 
checks the growth of the stems. 

Their larvse do the most harm, and should be 
hand-picked early in the season. The best exter- 



112 GARDENING 

minator is to sprinkle soot over the foliage when 
damp, mixed with salt ; the mixture should be 20 
of the soot to I of the salt. 



BEAN FLY 

Is an insect which attacks beans, and which is 
very destructive to the young shoots and foliage. 
The best means of ridding the beans of them is to 
remove the tops of the infested shoots and wash 
the plants well with soapy water. 



BLACK FLEA 

Attacks turnips ; then cover the surface with gas 
lime two or three mornings after the turnip seed 
has been sown. 

Blight is the popular name for any withering 
of plants such as occasioned by violent cold winds 
in early spring ; the ravages of the hawthorn cater- 
pillars are also spoken of ; but what it really is is 
not yet understood. 

CABBAGE FLY, OR CATERPILLAR 

These are the common white caterpillars which 
hover over the cabbages in the spring and summer. 
They lay their yellow eggs under the surface of the 
leaves, and from these issue the green caterpillars. 
They are green in front and yellow behind at first, 
then they get hairy and dotted over with black. 

Hand-picking is the best method of cleansing 
the plants from them. Soap-suds is a capital re- 



USEFUL HINTS 113 

mcdy, and if an ounce of paraffin oil is mixed with 
a gallon of soap-suds with which to drench the 
cabbages when quite young and before the cater- 
pillars appear. 



THE CARROT GRUB 

Is a dangerous enemy, and a dressing of soot 
and lime should be liberally supplied. A good 
watering with soap-suds all over the soil and round 
the stems of the plants will keep these pests at bay. 



CELERY FLY 

Hand-picking is generally regarded as the safest 
remedy, and if every leaf is removed and burnt 
directly, the mark of the insect can be perceived 
from the first. It cannot increase to any extent. 
Syringing the plants vigorously with a mixture of 
water and paraffin, at the rate of six gallons of the 
former to a wineglassful of the latter, is an excellent 
preventive. The oil must be kept well mixed 
with the water by the frequent use of the syringe 
in the pail. The operation, to be effectual, must 
be performed only while the sun is shining, when 
alone the flies emerge from the feeding-ground in 
the leaves and proceed at once to lay a fresh batch 
of eggs. Another good plan is to dust with lime 
or soot to prevent the grub coming ; but when once 
the grub appears, it should be crushed by pinching 
the leaf. This pest causes what looks like blisters 
on the leaf. 



14 GARDENING 



GREEN FLY (TO DESTROY, ANOTHER 
WAY) 

Boil a quarter of a pound of quassia chips in 
a quart of water for half an hour, then stir in two 
ounces of soft soap and add enough cold water to 
make a gallon. Dip the affected plants overhead 
in this mixture, which will kill every insect directly 
it touches them, and five minutes afterwards syringe 
the plants well with clear soft water. 



MILDEW 

Use the same wash as for green fly, with a 
handful of sulphur mixed in. Syringe in the after- 
noon and shut up close, and next morning put 
about an inch of rich soil on the surface. Repeat 
the syringing several times, but use the syringe 
gently. 

PEA BUG, OR WEEVIL 

This pest attacks the peas at the time of flower- 
ing, or whilst the pods are setting. 

THE POTATO BUG 

This lives upon the foliage of potatoes, and is 
said to be the cause of the potato disease. 



USEFUL HINTS 



115 



RED SPIDER IN A CUCUMBER HOUSE 

Wash the plant with soft soap and water, and 
limewash the walls and mix in a large handful of 
sulphur with the lime. The red spider is a yellow 
or pale red colour, and congregates thickly on the 
underside of the leaves, and protects itself by means 
of a fine cobweb-like covering. They are caused by 
an over-dry atmosphere, and, if they appear early 
in the season, denote neglect of watering. 



SLUGS 

One of the best ways of ridding plants of slugs 
is to get a little malt after it has been used for 
brewing. Place it on a piece of slate where the 
pests frequent, and they will eat it so greedily that 
they will swell to a great size and stiffen so much 
that they will die on the spot 



WIREWORMS 

These are most destructive, and once they get 
hold of any soil there is nothing but to dig it and 
pick them out. To prevent their attack upon a 
crop, mix a little spirit of tar on a larger quantity 
of gas lime with the soil. 

To trap them, bury potatoes in the soil near the 
crop, and thrust a piece of stick through it as a 
handle to take them up by. 

Salt and soot are the best things to get rid of 
these pests. If very badly affected, clear the 



ii6 GARDENING 

ground, give in the autumn a heavy dressing of 
salt and soot, and let it be a month ; then throw 
it up in rough ridges for the winter, and there 
will be no wireworms the next year. 

Or a smaller quantity of salt with a fair 
sprinkling of soot may be scattered among the 
plants, allowed to lie awhile, and then lightly forked 
in. Much salt has the effect of rendering damp soil 
pasty and rotten, and soot in quantity will perish 
the texture of light ground, and make it like so 
much dust or rubbish, and act accordingly. 

A dressing of gas lime spread over the ground 
and dug in is a good thing. 

When salt is applied it should be in showery 
weather, and on a fine day stir in the surface of the 
soil. 

Wireworms are particularly fond of pansies, 
and it is said to be a good plan to grow round the 
beds with an edging of daisies, as they will devour 
their roots with avidity. 



GARDENING MEASURES 

Half-sieve contains three imperial gallons and 
a half 

Sieve, seven imperial gallons. 

Bushel sieve, ten and a half imperial gallons. 

Bushel. — A bushel of cleaned and washed po- 
tatoes, weight fifty-six pounds ; but if not cleaned, 
sixty pounds should be allowed. 

Brown's Fumigator is the best to have. 



INDEX 



AMBURY, 21 

Ant trap, 1 1 1 
Artichokes, globe, i 

— Jerusalem, 4 

— to cook, 3, 4 
Artificial manure, 105 
Asparagus, 5 

— beetle, 1 1 1 
— to cook, 7 

Aubergines, 8 

— to cook, 9 

Balm, 10 
Basil, 10 
Bean fly, 112 
Beans, broad, 10 

— butter, 12 

— French or kidney, 12 

— scarlet runner, 14 

— Windsor, 10 

— to cook, 12, 13 
Beetroot, 15 

— to cook, 16 
Black flea, 112 
Borage, 16 
Borecole, 17 
Brassey onion fly, 73 
Broccoli, 17 
Brussels sprouts, 18 

— to cook, 19 
Burnet, 20 



Cabbage, 20 

— to cook, 25 

— fly, 22, 112 

— moth, 22 

— red, 24 
Capsicums, 26 

— to pickle, 27 
Cardoons, 27 

— to cook, 28 
Carrot grub, 1 1 3 
Carrots, 29 

— to cook, 30 
Cassida virides, 2 
Cauliflowers, 30 

— to cook, 32 
Celeriac, 32 

— to cook, 34 
Celery, 36 

— to cook, T,J 

— fly, T,6, 113 
Chervil, 38 
Chili, 38 
Chives, 39 

Chou de Burghley, 24 
Clubbing, 21 
Cole worts, 23 
Couve Tronchudo, 24 
Cress, see Mustard 
Cucumber ridge, 43 

— winter, 46 

— decay of, 44 



GARDENING 



Cucumbers, 39 


Lettuce, spotted, 57 


— to cook, 47 


— to cook, 58 


— in frames, 40 


Loam, 108 


Dart moth, 22 


Manure, artificial, 105 




Marjoram, 58 




Melangena, 9 


Endive, 48 


Mildew, 114 


— to blanch, 49 


Mint, 59 


— to cook, 50 


Mushroom beds, 64 




Mushrooms, 59 et seq. 




— to cook, 70 


Fennel, 50 . 


— spawn, 67 


Frost, to protect vegetables 


Mustard and cress, 70 


from, 109 




Fumigators, 107 






Nettles, to destroy, io( 


Gardening measures, 116 




Garlic, 51 


Onion fly, 73 


Grass seed, 106 


Onions, 71 


Green fly, 114 


— to cook, 74 


Herbs, to dry, 106 


Parsley, 74 


Hot bed, to make, 107 


Parsnips, 75 




— to cook, 77 




Pea bug, 114 


Insect pests, no 


Peas, 77 




— to cook, 80 




Peperoni, 80 


Kale, Scotch, 51 


Potato, 81 et seq. 


— to cook, 52 


— bug, 114 


Kohl rabi, 52 


— disease, 83 


— to cook, 53 


Potatoes, to preserve, 84 


Leeks, 54 


Radish, '^6 


— to cook, 55 


— to cook, ^-j 


Lettuce, 56 


Red spider, 115 


— cabbage, 57 




— cos, 57 




— German, 57 


Sage, 88 


— Incappacciato, 57 


Salsify, 88 


— Italian, 57 


— to cook, 88 



INDEX 



119 



Savory, 89 
Savoy, 23 
Scorzonera, 88 

— to cook, 89 
Seakale, 89 ef seq. 

— to cook, 92 
- — forcing, 90 
Seed sowing, 109 
Shallots, 92 
Slugs, 115 
Sorrel, 93 
Sparrows, no 
Spider, red, 115 
Spinach, 94 

— to cook, 95 

Tarragon, 96 
Thyme, 96 



Thyme, lemon, 96 
Tomatoes, 97 

— to cook, 100 

Turnip finger-and-toe, loi 

— fly, loi 
Turnips, 100 

— to cook, 102 



Vegetable marrow, 102 
— to cook, 103 
Vegetables, to cross, 105 



Watercress, 103 
Weevils, 114 
White fly, 31 
Wireworms, 115 



PRINTED BY 

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE 

LONDON 



BOSTON PUBLIC UBRARY 

Illllillll , 

3 9999 05987 685 2 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

• Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



StP 5 
i MOV 37 



