Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



^/ 



v..^r 



■•"■ ¥— 



r 



IW WJgW 



GENERAL LIBRARY 
OF 

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 



n 



9 

i 




■kacWi 



\A^ S.. /iu/^<2U^ cri idiytca 

11 uJuX^ 1894 



"5 

s 



^x. 



r 



«l 



r 



C^tamioal Library 

•Aims 



•. 



I 



. }. 



Department of the Interio: 






Sir: 

I have received from Doctor 
of copies of his valuable treat ij 

I take pleasure in sending ] 
hoping that you TriJ.I kindD.y acoe 

Ve. 



^f 



iCu oj^, 4^^ /7, //-f^ 




I 



I, 



I 



!5 



Chemioal Library 



K 



IT 

r 



i 

I 



I 



By the kindness and liberality of Mr. Andrew Carnegie, 1 am 
enabled to place this book in thirty-five hundred Pubh'c Libraries. 

Edward Atkinson. 

Boston, November, 1895. 



SCIENCE OF NUTRITION, 



TREATISE UPON THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION, 

BY EDWARD ATKINSON, LL.D., PH.D. 

THE ALADDIN OVEN,' 

INVENTED BY EDWARD ATKINSON. 

WHAT IT IS. WHAT IT DOES. HOW IT DOES IT. 



DIETARIES CAREFULLY COMPUTED 

UNDER THE DIRECTION OF MRS. ELLEN H. RICHARDS. 

TESTS OF THE SLOW METHODS OF COOKING 

IN THE ALADDIN OVEN, 

BY MRS. MARY H. ABEL AND MISS MARIA DANIELL, ^ 

WITH INSTRUCTIONS AND RECIPES. 

NUTRITIVE VALUES OF FOOD MATERIALS, 

COLLATED FROM THE WRITINGS OF PROF. W. O. ATWATER. 



APPENDIX: 

LETTERS AND REPORTS. 

SIXTH THOUSAND, 
BOSTON: 

* tE^t ®Qi Comer %ooli0tore* 

1896 



Copyright, 1892, 
By Edward Atkinson. 



Prssswork by 
S. J. Parkhill & Co., Boston, U. S. A. 



PREFACE TO FOURTH EDITION. 



I am now conyinced that in the invention of the Aladdin Oven a principle has been 
disclosed by which the most arduous, time- was ting and exhaustive work of the household, 
may be very greatly alleviated with beneficial results of many kinds, especially in pro- 
moting health. 

The principle on which the Aladdin Oven is constructed is that heat may be boxed 
up. In other words, the heat generated from the combustion of a small quantity of 
liquid or gaseous fuel can be held and accumulated within a case, box or oven of which 
the outer walls are made of non-heat<;onducting material. If this principle is tenable, 
then all metallic ovens must be condemned, because there is no metal that is not a quick 
conductor of heat. Suitable materials for constructing heat-chambers or ovens may either 
be wood properly protected against ignition on the inside, wood pulp, compounds of mag- 
nesia, fossil meal or non-heatrconducting clays, or a recent form of asbestos paper crimped 
so as to hold entrapped air. 

I was not at first aware of the grave importance of this principle, and did not fuUy 
comprehend the fact that, if it should be established, it must work a complete revolution 
in the construction of cooking apparatus of almost every kind. 

The food problem is of paramount importance, both in the production of food ma- 
terial, and in the preparation and application of a measured degree of heat under control 
and regulation for the conversion of food material into nutritious food in the process of 
cooking. There is no other branch of work on which our material existence depends of 
such absolute importance — no other work to which science has been applied more ade- 
quately than to the preparation and distribution of food material — no other occupation 
now demanding such scientific treatment as that of agriculture and no process in which 
science has been so much wanting until a very recent period as that of cooking. For lack 
of science in the domestic kitchen a very large part of the science and energy exerted in 
all the preceding processes are now worse than wasted. 

In a broad and general way it may be stated that nearly one-half the whole number 
of those who are listed in the Census as occupied for gain are employed as farmers or 
farm laborers. Supt F. A. Walker of the Census of 1880 was of opinion that a large 
number of those who were listed under the general title of laborers were in fact mainly 
employed in agriculture : if these were added, the proportion would have been fully one* 



4 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

half. A veiy large proportion of those occupied under the head of manufactures were 
engaged in the conversion of the crude products of the farm into flour, meal, dressed, 
salted and canned meats, dairy products and other analogous occupations. It is a matter 
of observation that fully one-half of all who are occupied in trade are employed in the dis- 
tribution of food. Food products constitute one-half or more of the freight moved by 
railways. 

Finally, the cost of food material ranges from forty to sixty per cent of the family 
expenditures of ninety per cent, of the population, the proportion increasing as the income 
diminishes. 

I at first suspected myself of over-rating the importance of the problem which I had 
undertaken to solve. At the present time I am warranted by adequate and complete 
testimony in maintaining all the claims that have ever been made in justification of my 
proposed methods of constructing cooking apparatus and preparing wholesome food. They 
have proved in pr&ctice to be as simple, as sure and as easily applied as I have ever 
claimed that they were in any of my previous treatises upon the subject of cooking, by a 
sufficient number of competent witnesses to that effect 

Each reader must decide what proportion of the work of every household is devoted 
to the preparation of food. 

Even good cooking is almost wholly an empirical art, and in this country there has 
been little or no scientific selection of food material with a view to the right balance of the 
nutrients, even in large public institutions where great numbers are provided for. 

It happens to have fallen to myself to give a considerable impulse to this line of in- 
vestigation. 

I should long since have given up the attempt to overcome incredulity, habit, inertia 
and lack of appreciation of the importance of a reform in the wasteful habits of great 
masses of the people of this, country, had I not been sustained by my scientific friends 
without whose assistance but little could have been accomplished. Their names are given 
with the extracts from their own treatises which I have compiled in this little volume. 

In the progress of this effort to comprehend all the elements of the food problem 
within a reasonable number of pages and also to force the community — or at least, all 
persons who care for the common welfare — to give their attention to the matter, I have 
learned many things which I think are not commonly understood. 

1. It is apparent that there is a most earnest effort among people of very small 
means, especially among the wives of hard-working laboring men, to provide as well as 
they know how to, for the subsistence of their families at the least cost Much of this 
effort is wasted for want of any common knowledge of the mitritive value of different 
kinds of food. Their purchases are apt to be made under the supposed necessity of buy- 
ing expensive articles with the false idea that nutrition is in proportion to price. 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. . 5 

2. It is apparent that many poor students in technical schools and colleges, and 
many single women who are striving to sustain themselves upon meagre wages, spend 
enough to secure complete nutrition and are yet half-starved or suffer from dyspepsia 
through their ignorance of what to buy. 

3. It is apparent that there are a great many workmen, in fact, very large numbers 
and a large proportion of all occupied, whose wages are sufficient to provide their families 
with adequate shelter, ample clothing and complete nutrition; yet their families suffer 
want or live in total lack of comfort, because their wives cannot do all the other household 
work and at the same time cook in a suitable way over the hot stoves which they are 
obliged to use for want of other suitable appliances. 

4. It is manifest to every one that it is becoming more and more difficult for young 
people of moderate income to keep house in a simple and comfortable manner, mainly on 
account of the difficulty of providing food that is fit to eat under the present conditions of 
domestic service ; the care of a yomig family utterly forbidding the wife from undertaking 
the cooking herself. 

5. It is also manifest that the household difficulties of the rich and the well-to-do 
may as often be attributed to want of knowledge, want of tact, or to the unreasonableness 
of the mistress, as to any want of capacity to learn on the p^rt of the cook. 

Under such adverse conditions, the maintenance of the unit of the family and the 
separate home is becoming more and more difficult Anything conducive to the mainten- 
ance of this unit is of paramount importance. 

If I am wrong in my observation of these facts in our every-day life, then I doubtless 
overrate the importance of the subject with which I am dealing. In such case this effort 
will presently cease to be worth continuing, because the better way of making the work of 
life lighter and simpler will be found. If I am right in my observations, then this effort 
may be a beginning which others more capable than myself will carry to a conclusion. 

I do not believe that the problem of social life is to be solved by co-operative kitchens, 
by collective households, or by any other of the devices which give such scope to the 
imagination of the idealists who feel themselves competent to reorganize society in all its 
departments ; these fads have had little or no success whenever and wherever they have been 
undertaken. Most of these semi-socialistic proposals would require a complete change in 
the habits and customs of every-day people, even if they did not call for a change in human 
nature itself, before their alleged benefits could be realized. They are all inconsistent 
either with personal liberty or with the development of individual capacity. 

In this category I do not include undertakings like the New England Kitchen, where 
an intermediate problem has been solved^ namely, furnishing wholesome, hot food to per- 
sons who live under such conditions that housekeeping is now out of the question and who 
have heretofore depended upon restaurants of a cheap and usually unwholesome kind for 



D THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

their subsistence. Such undertakings require a moderate amount of capital to be put at 
their disposal in the inception of the enterprise, but if followed up with judgment and 
business sagacity they may become selfHsustaining and may ultimately become a source of 
profit. The '^ Etablissements Duval " in Paris are examples of another type of under- 
taking, by which wholesome and well-cooked food may be supplied at very moderate 
prices. 

The main point to which my efforts have been directed has been to enable separate 
families of moderate means, living in their own houses, to secure wholesome, nutritious 
food, well cooked, without its being necessary for any member of the family to devote so 
much time to the preparation of the food as might seriously hamper the effort of the 
family in maintaining itself. This has been practically accomplished by several different 
households who have used the Aladdin Oven ; in more than one instance preparing the 
breakfast by night work, placing the dinner in the oven after breakfast, then every mem- 
ber of the family going out to their respective occupations. 

I might have rightly organized the manufacture of Aladdin Ovens and their distribu- 
tion under my letters-patent, with a prospect of ultimate success as a mere matter of busi- 
ness and perhaps considerable personal profit in the end. This was not my purpose, and 
neither inclination nor other duties permitted me to adopt the usual method of introducing 
a newly-patented invention. I protected this invention by letters* patent, to the end that 
the whole subject might be fully developed without interference and not for the purpose of 
becoming a manufacturer of ovens. My main purpose has been accomplished, and I have 
lately declared and do now declare the principle of the Aladdin Oven which is covered by 
these letters-patent open to any one to practise. I retain my rights in the name of the 
Aladdin Oven itself, as now constructed. I hold the name '^ Aladdin Oven ** as my private 
trade-mark, and shall continue to have the ovens made by my agents upon orders as fast 
as they are wanted. I also hold the names " Atkinson Oven " and << Atkinson Cooker '* 
as my trade-marks, in order that these names may not be used as descriptive of apparatus 
which I might not approve. While I have thus put the principle at the disposal of any 
one who may choose to practice it, I am yet convinced that it will be cheaper in the end 
for any one to buy a true Aladdin Oven at the much reduced price at which they are now 
offered by the makers to whom I have assigned my trade-mark, than to undertake to make 
^ one for themselves. I had been much disappointed in the long delay in lessening the cost, 
but there were many details to be worked out. The air-cells in the asbestos paper lag- 
ging render it so effective a non-conductor as to make it possible to construct the Aladdm 
Oven wholly of sheet-iron, in which this new material is encased. Aladdin Ovens will 
hereafter be made by the Asbestos Paper Co., 71 Ktlby Street, Boston, to whom orders 
may be sent. Their advertisement will be found at the end of this treatise. 

It may happen that the makers of metal stoves will learn the lesson of protecting or 



THE 8CIENCB OP NUTRITION. 7 

jacketing their own Btoves on the outside with a non-heat-conducting material, to the end 
that the principle of the Aladdin Oven may be applied in many other ways. That princi- 
ple is substantially made plain in the rules that I have given for its practice. I may now 
repeat it. As I have stated, heat may be boxed up in an oven which is made of non-heat- 
conducting material. Vulcanized wood pulp, known as ^^ Indurated Fibre,*' I have found 
to be the best Heat may, however, be boxed up in a bucket, a barrel or a wooden box 
lined with tin, so as to do most effective work. These cheaper appliances are not as ser- 
viceable a9 the true Aladdin Oven, but will yet do a vast deal of good work and save a 
great deal of waste and of labor. They are fully described in subsequent pages. 

The waste of heat or its rapid diffusion being thus prevented it may be converted 
into work under easy control and at a regulated temperature. These conditions arc neces- 
sary to any true art of cooking. This is no longer a theory but a well demonstrated fact. 
Any one who is in possession of appliances which are made consistently with thb princi- 
ple and who possesses common intelligence, may learn how to make bread and how to 
roast, bake, simmer or broil any kind of food material ; in fact, any one may learn how 
to cook anything in a single lesson which may be taught from this book. There is no 
mystery about the matter. The work can be done in the simplest manner with the least 
expenditure of the time of the cook, with no waste, and with the certainty of securing 
the development of the finest specific flavor of every kind of food, either animal or vege- 
table, and whether cheap or high priced. , 

One of my most judicious critics to whom I am accustomed to submit my copy before 
printing has made the following comment upon the above statement, *' I wish you would 
not make this quite so sweeping ; your standard of common intelligence ia too high." 

In order to see who is rights I propose a new version of the game of ^Twenty Ques- 
tions.'* Any group of players can determine by their capacity to play this game whether 
or not I have credited them with more common intelligence than they possess. The game 

is in two parts. 

I. Getting Ready to Cook. 

Question No. 1. — Can you cut up one pound of shin of beef or some other kind of 
tough meat, or a pound of clear sirloin or tenderloin into small pieces of about the ^ze 
you cut it when you eat it? 

Question No. 2. — Can you put on a little more salt and pepper on this raw meat 
than you would if it had been cooked and a little had already been used in the cooking ? 

Question No. 3. — Can you cut two medium-sized sausages into pieces each an incli 
long and roll them in some flour ? 

Qubstion No. 4. — Can you put with the meat and the sausage one-third of a cup of 
oatmeal ? 

Question No. 5. — Can you put this compound into a crock or earthern-^overed jar ? 



■1 



8 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

Question No. 6. — Can you add one coffee-cupful or a measuring cupful (if you 
happen to have one) of canned tomato and one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce or 
walnut catsup ? 

Question No. 7. — Can you add gradually about a pint of cold water and stir the 
contents of the jar with a spoon ? ^ 

Question No. 8. — Can you light a lamp ten minutes before you want to use it, so 
as to be pretty sure that it will not smoke ? All those who have a Trench burner may 
say Yes, others will try. With a well-cared-for Bradley & Hubbard lamp it is easy and 
sure* 

Question No. 9. — Can you put the lamp under a hole in a table, of which the top is 
iron, and can you put a box over the jar when that has been put upon the table ? 

Question No. 10. — Can you convert the directions for making bread, roasting meat, 
cooking vegetables, etc., which are in this book into a set of questions like the foregoing? 

If all have answered. Yes, to these ten questions, then all are competent to prepare 
any kind of food material and to get it ready to be cooked, although some special com- 
pounds need to be beaten, stirred or rolled according to the instructions in the books, before 

being put in the oven. 

n. Making an Oven and Cooking. 

Question No. 11. — Can you get an Aladdin Oven and table, or if not can you get 
a strong wooden frame about three feet square and about eighteen inches high with two 
strips of iron across the top to support the iron top of the table ? 

Question No. 12. — Can you get a sheet of galvanized iron a little over three feet 
square, have the edges and comers turned down, a hole two and one-half inches in di- 
ameter made in the middle, and have it fastened upon the table-legs ? 

Question No. 13. — Can you have k slab of soapstone or a tile about six inches 
square and about one inch thick set on legs of tile or soapstone half an inch high, or a 
brick resting on four pebbles, placed over the hole on the table ? 

Question No. 14. — Can you get a five-gallon paper bucket, or what is better, can 
you have a box made of boards one inch thick, twelve inches each way inside, lined with 
tin, without any cover, to put over the tile or brick ? Can you reverse the half of a flour 
or beer barrel over such tile or brick on a metal table ? 

QuESTiOJf No. 15. -r Can you get a hand-lamp with a duplex Trench burner one 
and a half inches wide from Jones, McDuffee & Stratton, Boston, that will hold a quart of 
150** kerosene oil ? 

If all have said Yea^ than the oven may be made ready for use. 

Question No. 16. — Having lighted your lamp, can you now place it on some blocks 
under the table so that the top of the chimney will come close up to the hole without 
making the lamp smoke ? 



THE 8CIEKCE OP NUTRITION. " 9 

Question No. 17. — Can you now put the jar containing the food material upon the 
brick or tile and place the bucket or box inverted over it ? 

Question No. 18. — Have you now the moral courage, coupled with a sufficient 
amount of credulity, to go away for five hours and trust the lamp to do the cooking? 
How many will say Yes ? 

Question No. 19. — Can you come back after five hours, a little more or less, take 
off the box, remove the jar, and serve the contents to the guests whom you have invited to 
share, with any confidence that the cooked food will be appetizing and nutritious ? Who 
answers Yes ? Echo answers. Who ? 

Question No. 20. — Can you believe that if you have had a tin tube six inches high 
with a plate over the top placed over the hole instead of the tile on brick, you can putf 
four jars, each containing a pound to a pound and a half of vegetables, fish-chowder, pud- 
ding or oatmeal, around the tube on the table, and a piece of meat, a basted chicken, a 
thick steak or a meat stew in a pan on the top shelf of the tube, and can prepare a din- 
ner for five or six persons under your bucket or box ? Who says Yes ? Nobody I 

Those who possess enough common intelligence to win in the game of "Twenty 
Questions '' may be capable of understanding that at>out nine-tenths of the- instructions 
for cooking on an iron stove or range are directed toward overcoming the faults and the 
irregular or excessive heat which has to be generated from coal in order to cook at all 
without burning, spoiling or wasting good material in the process. Any one thus proved 
to be competent in answering the twenty questions may then make up a great many of 
the food combinations given in the recipes, put them under the box or into the oven, and 
without wasting time, temper or material and becoming roasted themselves while the pro- 
cess of cooking is going on, may get results equal to or better than the cookery-books 
call for. 

Having thus divested myself of any private interest in the principle, retaining only 
the manufacture of the Aladdin Oven itself, I now feel at liberty to give a digest of the 
testimony of many witnesses whose names and addresses I should otherwise have hardly 
been willing to print even with their full consent ; because I know that I shall subject 
them to many inquiries which may become burdensome, and I would not put them to 
that burden under any appearance of seeking a private profit. 

I have recovered the cost of my original experiments from the sale of the oven. 
This book is selling freely, and may ultimately reimburse me for the cost of preparing and 
printing. I am therefore satisfied that the kind of work which falls to myself will pay its 
cost, and will therefore be justified in its oontinmnce. 

A digest of the replies lately received to questions put to purchasers of the oven, and 
some new recipes wiU be found in the supplement to this edition at the end of the book* 



10 



THE SCIENCE OF KUTBITION. 



On reviewing the work of C!oant Rumford since the first edition of this book was 
written, I find that I have been an unconscious plagiarist. The title is a term which he 
used more than one hundred years ago, and led by the logic of the case I have repeated 
many of his demonstrations and have accomplished what he sought to attain and would 
have succeeded in had he been supplied with liquid or gaseous fuel and other materials 
than iron for the construction of ovens. 

£dwabd Atkinson. 

BrookUnej Mom., U. S. A., January, 1895. 




INTRODUCTION TO FIRST EDITION. 



It had been my intention to adopt a more modest name for this compenaium 
of my experiments, and I am warranted only by the approval and advice of my 
scientific friends and co-laborers in a field that has yet been only partially explored 
in adopting the form of my title. Without their aid and counsel I should have 
been able to give only a few crude hints for others to work out. 

Much delay has occurred in the publication of this book. It has grown upon 
my hands, and in its final shape it is not in as good a form as I could wish; but 
time is wanting for further correction. As the line of investigation has opened, it 
has become apparent that we were at the very beginning of what will be necessary 
in order to establish a true Science of Nutrition; yet more before the facts that have 
been developed by science may be converted into a simple art that any one may 
practice. Suffice it that by the aid of my friends I may have been able to put, in 
this unsatisfactory form, a considerable part of what may yet be called the alphabet 
of the Science of Nutrition. I venture to hope that others more competent may 
take up this work and perfect my crude inventions. 

In one of my earlier treatises upon the " Art of Cooking *' I ventured to bring 
out the importance of this subject in the following terms: 

[Popular Science Moisthly, November, 1889.] 

I will challenge attention and discussion by first submitting some very positive 
and dogmatic statements, subsequently sustaining them by such proofs as I have to 
offer: 

1. Special apparatus for broiling and frying has been adequately and suitably 
developed for the use of those who can afford these somewhat wasteful methods ot 
preparing food, yet exceUent when skillfully practiced. 

2. The ordinary methods of frying are utterly bad and wastefuL 

3. Bread may be baked suitably in a brick oven and also economically when 
the work is done upon a large scale. 



12 THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITIOK. 

4. It is very difficult to bake bread in a suitable way in the common iron stove 
or range; for this^ among other reasons, most of the bread consumed in this country 
is very bad, although we have the greatest abundance of the best material. 

5. Meats may be well roasted, in a costly manner, before an open fire. 

6. Aside from the exceptional apparatus or methods named, substantially all 
the modern cooking stoves and ranges are wasteful and more or less unsuitable for 
use. All the ordinary methods of quick baking, roasting and boiling are bad; and^ 
finally, almost the whole of the coal or oil used in cooking is wasted. 

7. The smell of cooking in the ordinary way gives evidence of waste of flavor 
as well as a waste of nutritious properties; in most cases the unpleasant smell also 
gives evidence that the food is being converted into an unwholesome condition, 
conducive to indigestion and dyspepsia. 

8. Kine-tenths of the time devoted to watching the process of cooking is 
wasted; the heat and discomfort of the room in which the cooking is done are 
evidence of worse than waste. 

9. The warming of the room or house with the apparatus used for cooking is 
inconsistent with the best method of cooking and might be compassed at much less 
cost if the process of cooking were separated from th^ process of warming the 
room or dwelling. 

10. Ko fuel which cannot be wholly consumed is really fit to use in the process 
of cooking. 

The true science of cooking consists in the regulated and controlled application 
of heat, by which flavors are developed and the work of converting raw and 
indigestible material into nutritious food is accomplished. 

For this purpose the quantity of fuel required is almost absurdly small com* 
pared to the quantity commonly used. 

In establishing the standard of heat for different processes or different kinds 
of food I have found it rather difficult to measure the temperature of the oven in 
its everyday work, and I have also broken a good many high-grade thermometers in 
experimenting. I have one very useful cooking thermometer, which is made by 
Joseph Davis & Co., Fitzroy Works, London, S. B., but I can find nothing corre- 
sponding to it in this country. 

A simple method in experimenting is to place a small vessel containing lard oil 
on the same shelf with the food which is in process. Take the heat, on the comple- 
tion of the work, by immersing the bulb of the thermometer in the hot fat. 

I have also procured a large numbiar of alloys or metals possessing different melt- 
ing points, of which I place small pieces alongside or inside the cooking vessels in 
small saucers, and in this way I can make a close approximation to the maximum 



THE 8CIBNGB OF KUTBITION. 13 

heat. Once fairly established, the matter becomes simple by gauging the size of 
the burner to the size of the oyen. 

I was led into my recent experiments in the art of cooking by dealing with the 
statistics of the cost of food to the multitude. It comes to one-half the cost of 
living or more/ to at least nine-tenths of the people of this country and of every 
other country. The less the income the greater the proportion spent for food. 

My immediate incentive in trying to solve the practical problem was my happen- 
ing to be present, on a cold day, when a number of workmen in a mill which they 
were building were about to take their dinner. When they opened their dinner 
pails a mess of cold victuals was disclosed, which seemed to me must require the 
digestive power of an ost'rich to dispose of. This led me to take up again a line of 
experiments upon which I had begun many years before, but had dropped. I had 
tried to make a cooking-pail which could be carried in the hand, and in which the 
workman could cook his dinner without any attention being required while he was 
at work. I have now accomplished this, but the way has been long, devious, waste- 
ful and costly and the device is not yet in a commercial form. 

It may be observed that the progress of almost all invention is from the simple, 
rude and laborious ways of the untaught, — through very complex and costly de- 
vices, ending at last in the simplest methods of the most effective and least arduous 
kinds. So it has been in the making of cooking utensils and in the art of cooking. 
So it has been with my own efforts upon these lines. 

The final conclusions in which I have summed up the results of my experience 
may be laid down in the following very simple propositions, which any one can 
apply who knows how or who is willing to be taught. It is of tener the will than 
the capacity that is lacking. 

1st. The simple rule for making a cooking apparatus is as follows : 

Take a paper box, then take some heat from a lamp, put it into the box and 
keep it there. When you have enough heat in the box, having first put the food 
which is to be cooked into suitable pots or pans, put them into the box with the 
heat ; keep them there until the heat and the food are combined ; keep up the 
supply of heat from the lamp. (Aladdin Oven Patent 524,949.) 

2nd. The simple rule for learning how to prepare and how to cook food, is as 
follows : 

Take one part of gumption and one part of food ; combine them together in a 
dish in which the food may be cooked ; put that dish, as directed by rule No. 1, 
into the box where the heat is ; keep it in there long enough to cook the food. 

There is no mystery and no difficulty about either of these matters. Any boy 
or girl can be taught in one lesson how to master certain simple principles so as to 



14 THE SOIEKCB OF KUTBITION. 

become a good plain cook, after safficient 'prtyctice—provided each already possesses 
the one part of gumption which mast be combined with the food. All the cookery 
books and all the recipe books that I have ever read wholly omit this necessary 
ingredient. Those who do not yet know how to apply these two rules, may read 
this pamphlet ; some may perhaps profit by it. 

I am told that it may be injudicious to claim so much, or to make so light of 
the difficulties in training a cook. That may be true; but, what can one do? I 
must either state the facts as they are, or suppress them. I have tested these two 
rules in practice, and I have not failed. The boys that I selected to experi- 
ment upon possessed the element of gumption, and they worked very well on the 
first trial. 

When correcting the proofs of this text, the rules which I have laid down for 
making an oven and educating a cook suddenly took on an appearance of grotesque 
absurdity. Then I bethought me that any reader might say to himself, '^ What 
does this man mean? Does he himself more than half believe what he says? " And 
to that question my answer might be, '' /doubt if he does.'' 

When we recall the fact that men of the highest scientific attainments have 
tried to solve this problem at various times, and have not found out the way, it 
really does seem rather absurd that my two rules should suffice. For instance, we 
may recall the work of the French inventor Papin, who, more than two hundred 
years ago, while engaged in the apparently more important work of laying the 
foundation for the modern steam-engine and while improving the air-pump, yet 
found time to invent the Papin soup-digester. That utensil remains in use under 
the inventor's name, down to the present day, a most durable monument. It is a 
most excellent utensil, but it is adapted only to the single purpose of utilizing soup 
stock, leaving nothing but the bones. It does not suffice for common use with us, 
because a great many of our working people declare that they do not want ^^ bone soup," 
and they stigmatize simmered food of the best kind under the name of ''pig wash." 

Passing down over a century, the next name which at once comes up is that of 
Benjamin Thompson — Oount 'Rumford. He devoted a lifetime to the study of 
heat, and he believed that by the invention of the Rumford oven he had solved the 
very problem on which we are still engaged. Tet the Rumford oven has gone 
almost wholly out of use, and Count Rumford did not accomplish his purpose, be- 
cause he had not a cheap fuel which could be regulated and completely consumed 
in the process of heating the oven. Mineral oil had not been discovered and even 
coal was not much in household use. In other words, the true science of cooking 
waited for the invention of methods of making gas, for the discovery of kerosene 
oil and for tl^ conversion of wood into wood pulp or ^' indurated fibre." 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 15 

Again, consider the constant effort of inventors in the improvement of the iron 
cooking range and the iron cooking stove. Witness their mis-directed efforts to 
ventilate ovens and draw off the vapor generated in the oven from the food ; which 
is precisely what ought not to be done when the heat is under proper regulation. 
Witness their efforts to enable every one to cook food quickly, which is ab- 
solutely the wrong way in nine times out of ten. Witness all the other devices 
which have been applied to the perfection of the iron stove ; yet the common iron 
stove remains an infernal machine, almost unfit to be used, even by the intelligent, 
in any true method of cooking, and incapable of being applied to any really scientific 
process of cooking.* 

When we recall all these instances and efforts, it really does seem absurd that 
any one should claim to have found out a way by which a boy or girl, in whose 
training a little gumption has been developed and who never cooked anything before, 
can be taught in one hour the simple principles, which after sufficient practice will 
enable them to take some heat from the top of a lamp, to put it into a box and then 
to subject all kinds of meat, game, poultry, fish, fruit, grain and vegetables to this 
heat in such a way, that the most skillful "Chef" or "Cordon Blen *' will fail by 
comparison in developing the finest natural flavor of each distinct variety of food. 
It may seem absurd ; nevertheless, it seems to be a fact. 

I can only explain this case by taking over to myself a story which is told 
about the invention of what is called the California pump ; one of the simplest 
devices for the rough work of draining. It consists of a slanting trough in which 
revolves a leather belt, across which belt strips of wood are nailed. When the man 
who first adapted this pump to draining a ditch showed it to one of his neighbors, 
never thinking that there was anything very wonderful about it» his neighbor's 
comment was this : " Why, Jim, that is so simple that nobody but a fool would 
ever have thought of it." That is about the aspect in which the Aladdin Oven and 
the Workman's Pail are presented to my alter ego. When my double takes himself 
a little way off, so as to be able to look back on what the other fellow is trying to 
do ; or in order to comprehend what his practical representative is occupied about 
in the material work of mundane existence; he sometimes puts the question to me, 

[From the Nation, No. 1861.] 
* '* If we consider that wonderfol work of human hands, tbe kitchen range, under the management of the 
regular cook, who knows how to put on all the draught at once and keep it on, what a devourer of fuel it is ! We 
need a cup of tea or a chop in summer, and a fire is kindled that would generate steam enough to drive an ocean 
racer a mile upon her course, the kitchen is turned into a Tophet, the miserable servants swelter in the apart- 
ments which thetr own stupidity and that of mankind have rendered uninhabitable, and their employers are 
rendered uncomfortable above. The extravagance of the Chinese, who, as related by Charles Lamb, at first 
thought it necessary to bum down a house whenever they wanted to roast a pig, is nothing to ours. In place of 
all these trials, heating gas is now supplied to those who have the wit to use it and the enterprise to supply them- 
selves with gas ranges, which can be lighted and extinguished in a moment" 



IC THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

or I put it to him, or we put it to both of us : *' Do you really suppose that you 
have accomplished the work which Count Bumford undertook, and did not bring 
into practical form?'' It remains for others aud not for me or my double to answer 
this question. 

It has taken me a long time to put myself in a position to have the question 
asked, but it has lately been answered by a cloud of witnesses. 

In dealing with the preparation of food I have been led to give some considera- 
tion to the possible increase in the variety and in the quantity of our food supply. 

I will treat only one or two points in this connection — it opens a broad field. 

To the uninstructed mind it hardly seems as if our scientists had given suffi- 
cient attention to the nutrition either of the animal or the plant in the utilization 
of the leguminous plants classed as pulse, i.e., pease and beans in great variety. In 
a recent investigation (in 1888) of the wheat supply of the world, I was much 
struck with the statement made by Dr. George Watts, Eeporter on Economic Prod- 
ucts to the Government of India, that the limit of exports of wheat from India 
had probably been reached, because no more land *within easy reach of railways or 
waterways could be spared from the cultivation of rice and pulse. Rice alone, con- 
sisting too much of starch, would not give vigor; the pulse furnishes the necessary 
nitrogen. The farmers of the Southern states, who cannot produce ripened corn 
for milling in competition with the West, can yet produce corn stalks for the silo in 
excessive abundance. In their cottonseed meal they have a fat-producing food also 
full of phosphates, and in the cow-pea vine they have a plant of almost unequalled 
power in renovating the soil when plowed under; also of the utmost value when 
mixed with corn stalks in the silo, making a complete food, even for working cattle 
and mules. 

I also infer from this report of Dr. Watts that we yet know but little in this 
country about many varieties of rice and of pulse. Prof. Church states that *' rice is 
more largely grown and consumed as food than any other cereal. Alone, however, it 
is not a perfect food, being deficient in albuminoids and in mineral matters.'^ In 
speaking, however, of the food of the Japanese, he remarks that '^ both swamp rice 
and mountain rice, when grown in Japan, contain a higher percentage of albumin- 
oids than is usual with this grain.'' What is mountain rice? 

In respect to one variety of pulse, the Soy or Soja bean. Prof. Church remark&. 
''The Soy bean is entitled to the highest place, even amongst the pulses, as a food 
capable of supplementing the deficiencies of rice or other starchy grains. Very 
few vegetable products are so rich as this bean, at once in albuminoids and in fat 
and oil, the former constituent averaging 35 per cent, and the latter 18 or 19." 

At the time of the Cotton Exposition, in Atlanta, 1881, I imported from China 



THB SOIBNCE OF NUTRITION. 17 

two or three bushels of Soy beans, which were distributed from there. I have lately 
seen several references to their cultivation in Southern agricultural journals. Tho 
sugar planters of Tjouisiana have only within very recent years discovered the fer- 
tilizing properties of cottonseed meal; the Chinese have used bean meal as a fertilizer 
for centuries. 

Dr. Watts remarks in the report to which I have referred: " There are rices 
that can be cultivated on comparatively dry soils, rices that occupy the ground more 
than half the year, rices thai grow in cold, temperate climates^ and rices that can 
thrive only in tropical swamps." 

Speaking of pulse, he says: ** The pulses alone occupy more ground than either 
wheat or rice.'* He also gives a list of the principal varieties, as follows: *^ Gram 
or Chicken pea, Dal or Thur, Mung, Urad, Moth, Shim, Poput, Kulthi." "The 
Dal is a large woody shrub sown around tlie margins of the fields, or in rows through 
wheat and cotton. It does not, therefore, interfere with wheat cultivation. All 
the other pulses or leguminous crops are procumbent herbs." 

If another great crop of cotton should so reduce the price as to force a variation 
in Southern farming with a little more rapidity, it might prove to be a blessing in 
disguise. Would it not be judicious to procure the seed of mountain rice from 
Japan, of upland rice from India, and might it not be judicious to add to the Soja 
of China the Dal, Poput and Gram from the northwestern or temperate sections of 
India? 

The last time I was at Columbia, S. C, I was told that the Pea Ridge farmers, 
were thriving, who had learned to nourish the poor soil of the ridges, from which 
the original fertility of the land had been washed down into the bottom lands, by 
turning under the Cow-pea vines, while the planters on the bottoms, whose life in 
old times used to be so easy, were no longer prospering. Would it not be judicious 
for Governor Tillman to send to India for some *' Dal," and would it not be pru- 
dent for the Southern Farmers' Alliance to let our silver go to India in exchange 
for some "Poput" and "Gram," instead of keeping it here to debase our credit? 

Prof. Atwater tells us that nitrogen is the most important and most costly 
element in the nutrition of man, as it also is in the nutrition of the soil. 

Here is a great class of nitrogenous pulses waiting to be imported. Perhaps 
they are no better than our native cow-pea vines, but who knows? What do we 
know about English horse-beans or Indian pulse? Why should Englishmen enjoy 
" Stachys Tubifera " from Japan while we have it not? A new tuber might give 
as pleasant a sensation as a new lily. 

The science of nutrition leads one very far afield, and unless I stop here on this 
subject the introduction may become longer than the main treatise. 



18 THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITION. 

CONCLUSION. 

I have not hesitated to take the somewhat nnasaal methods which I havt*. 
adopted in preparing and publishing this pamphlet, in order to assure the wide 
circulation of the theories, the facts and the figures which are printed herein. A 
true economy in the use of food and the attention which is demanded by the art of 
nutrition have failed until very lately to receive the attention that is due to their 
importance. 

Unless one is prepared to spend a small fortune in the ordinary modes of 
3uivertisement, or unless one invents some new method of securing public attention 
by exciting curiosity, as I have attempted to do in this pamphlet, the spread of 
information on any given subject is about as slow and difficult as it is to accomplish 
the object aimed at in the processes about which the information is sought to bo 
given. I have known most useful and valuable inventions to be delayed for many 
years for want of the means, the capacity or push necessary to force them into 
public notice ; some have been delayed so long that the inventors have died poor ; 
one known to me even committed suicide in despair. I doubt not many valuable 
devices have been wholly lost for the time being, both to the inventor and to the 
public, on this account. 

How to avoid the ways of the vendors of quack medicines, and at the same 

time to secure public attention, is a difficult problem ; yet more difficult when the 

subject of notice is one of which the vendor desires to promote the sale for other 

purposes than personal profit, or to which he cannot give the time or attention 

which would be necessary in order to make a sufficient profit corresponding to his 

effort. It is not my purpose to go into an extensive manufacture of ovens on my 

own account, unless I am obliged to do it lest the possible benefit of my work should 

be lost. If my ovens are justified in use, they may soon be taken up by those who are 

more conversant with the business than I am ; then my own profit or royalty on the 

patent, if any, may be devoted to the further development of the science of 

nutrition. 

Edwabd Atkinson. 

June, 1895. Having recovered the cost of all experiments from the sale of ovens, 
the patents thereon are free to public use, the name Aladdin Oven being retained for my 
private use as a trade-mark. E. a. 



PART I. 

TBBATISB UFON 

THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



Substance of a Leotube Delivered in the Law Lbotube Room of Oolum- 
BiA College^ New York, at the Instance of Prof. Thomas Egleston 
— Subsequently Amended and Completed. 

Ladies and Oentlemen: 

Before presenting my subject^ permit me to say that what I have written is not 
intended for publication as a conclasive statement. It is wholly tentative and is 
incomplete. 

If this treatise shonld be printed in its present form I must append to it the 
caveat to which I was accustomed when I earned my living as an accountant : 
"E. & 0. E.''— "Errors and Omissions Excepted.*' 

You may be learning the alphabet while I hare got as far as words of three 
letters in the study of the subject which is to be dealt with to-day. 

What I shall exhibit to you in the product of these ovens and cooking pails 
will speak for itself, and may be fully reported according to the facts. 

I understand these meetings to have been arranged by Prof. Egleston in order 
that I might bring before you some evidences of the progress that I have made in 
Applying scientific methods to practice in the most necessary of all the arts, this art 
of nutrition. Yet I am not a scientist, therefore all my own work is empirical, 
tentative and crude. It merely opens the way into a field where true science needs 
to be applied, but which is as yet almost unoccupied. 

oince I have ventured almost alone to* work in this field upon an entirely new 
method, you will pardon me if I am obliged to speak in the first person singular. 

At first I found it very difficult to overcome the sense of its being quite unfit 
for me to speak to women about the art of cooking, or to physicians upon the 
science of nutrition. I have, however, put aside that feeling since I have dis- 
covered what my mission ii the world is. I suppose every one has a mission, 
whether conscious or unconscious of it. My own mission appears to be to overcome 
the inertia of woman ; a very hard piece of work. 

Five or six years since the namPB of proteids, aHuminaids and carbo-hydrates 
conveyed no meaning to my mind except as having something to do with raising f»^ 
oattle and feeding pigs. 



20 THE SCIBNCE OF NUTRITION. 

I have, however, a propensity for statistics, although no one values figures less 
or distrusts them more than I do, unless I can wrest from them their true meaning. 
In some of my social p^^udies the figures disclosed to me the rather appalling fact, 
namely, — that the price of life to about nine- tenths of the people of this land of 
abundance comes to one-half or more of their incomes ; the supply of food being 
the source of material life. In other words, half the cost of living or more is spent 
for food material by the vast majority of the people of this and every other land. 
When I fully comprehended what these figures meant, my interest in the victualling 
department became aroused. 

At about the time, some five years since, when these figures had interested me, 
after a long rest from any practical work in the food question, I happened to be 
passing over a new factory then in process of construction, which was to be insured 
in the Factory Mutual Insurance Company, of which I am president. It was the 
noon hour and the workmen .were opening their dinner pails. When I saw what 
was in them my interest in the victualling department took on a practical direction. 
I made up my mind that I would invent a cooking pall in which a workman might 
carry his food to the place of his work, cook it after he got there, and have a hot 
and nutritious dinner at 12 o'clock. Incomplete and somewhat clumsy as these 
pails which are before you may be, I am very far on toward the accomplishment of 
my purpose. All inventions help each other. I shall soon be in possession of a new 
burner, which is already invented for a kerosene lamp, by means of which such per- 
fect combustion of kerosene oil may be assured as perhaps to require no glass 
chimney. It will need only a perforated plate for a wind guard. I shall then 
be able to attach a platform to the bottom of my pail on which I may place a small 
lamp which will do the cooking in the two cooking boxes, which can be put inside 
the pail, each containing one pound of food ; one day a meat stew in one of the 
boxes, oatmeal in the other ; another day, a fish chowder in one, and an ^ple 
dumpling in the other. 

In the use of these pails the question is no longer with me, " What can I do ? " 
but *' What can I not do?*' The work is almost incredible that mav be done in 
this simple device. When the lamp and pail are all in one piece, that can be carried 
in one hand, less cumbrous than even this one, my mission to the workman will 
have been accomplished. He may find a suitable place, either in doors or out of 
doors, to hang up the pail, where it will be out of the way of sharp winds ; light the 
lamp, and at noon have his hot, nutritious and perfectly digestible meal ready for 
him to partake of. 

In my progress toward this objective point I have, according to the common 
custom, worked by devious ways. I have wasted a good deal of money and a good 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 21 

deal of time^ mainly becanse I am not a master of any science and because my prac- 
tice is wholly empirical. In my profession I am, however, obliged to take note of 
the progress of almost all the sciences, and the rule is about the same ; through 
devious and complex methods to ultimate simplicity. Yet more : I am very often 
called upon to take note of the many things which science has not yet accomplished, 
or has only partly accomplished. In the little lamp in which the complete com- 
bustion of a small quantity of liquid fuel may be accomplished without a chimney, 
I may find evidence that I have not been far wrong in a remark that I have often 
made about the combustion of fuel under boilers for the purpose of making steam, 
to wit : that even when we have applied al> the knowledge that science has yet im- 
parted to us, our ignorance of the true method of converting coal into power may 
be measured by the height of our chimneys and by the strength of the draught or 
blast that we must apply in order to keep up the combustion of the coal. I think 
gaseous fuel must soon come into almost universal use, for smelting, generating 
steam, and for cooking also. 

If that remark has any approach to being true in respect to the combustion of 
fuel under the modern boiler, how much greater our ignorance must be in the 
application of coal to the processes of cooking. If a small part of the paper upon 
which tbis treatise is written were compressed and made use of in the way that coal 
is now consumed in the modern marine boiler to drive the engine of the steamship, 
this paper would serve to generate force enough to drive much more than a ton of 
food and its proportion of a freight steamer two miles upon the sea, and yet in tl^e 
best marine boilers and engines I believe less than twelve per cent, of the potential 
of the fuel consumed is converted into work. Yet such is our ignorance of the 
right methods of applying heat to the cooking of food in our common iron stoves 
or ranges, that we burn more pounds of coal than the number of pounds of food to 
which the heat is to be applied. If the common range or stove now in position in 
your dwellings were used only for heating the kitchen, boiling water, boiling 
potatoes and heating water for circulation through the house, the saying of the 
mere excess of coal which is now burned in order to force the oven to a heat suitable 
for quick cooking would weigh more than the food to which that heat is applied. 
I think, but I am not sure on this point, that one-half or more of the coal which is 
now used to do the cooking, as well as to warm the kitchen and heat water, may be 
saved by the adoption of my apparatus for the cooking, while only depending on the 
ordinary range or stove for the rest of the service. That is the testimony of my 
cook in my own winter house, where my kitchen is very large and is on the north 
side, on the top of a hill in the country. At my summer place by the sea-side I 
have not had a pound of coal on the premises for three years. We bum a little 



22 THE 8CIKNCE OF NUTRITION. 

wood in the cooking stove for special purposes, but the greater part of our woric is 
done in my ovens. 

Yet this saving of fuel is the matter of the very least relative importance, if I 
may safely accept the conclusions which others have reached on the testimony of 
now nearly two hundred witnesses. It almost required this great mass of testimony 
to convince myself of the facts in this case, and to give me the necessary confidence 
to appear before you and others. 

It is the waste of food and the conversion of good food into bad feeding that is 
the motive of my work and of this address. 

I may perhaps venture to name this treatise a ''Sermon upon the Potato 
Gospel/' borrowing that phrase from Garlyle. If it is a sermon of serious purport, 
as I think it may be entitled to be called, I may divide it into the customary three 
parts of a discourse : 

Ist. The Selection of Food. 

2nd. The Preparation of Food. 

3rd. The Application of Heat to its Chemical Conversion. 

As to the last title, one may perhaps ask. Why use three long words and five 
short ones? Why not say ''cooking'' at once, and have done with it? I will 
presently give you good reasons for my choice of this phrase. 

In regard to the selection of food. If it were a question of feeding horses, cows 
or pigs, all the necessary information could be found in almost innumerable pop- 
ular treatises, magazines and agricultural papers. Any one can learn in a day how 
much and what to give to a trotting horse ; how much and what to feed to a work- 
ing horse ; how much and what to put before a milch cow or a pair of oxen ; but if 
one of you had asked, only a little while since, how to select the right ingredients 
and proportions of food for the nutrition of men and women, you could only be 
referred to some abstruse and scientific treatises. Even yet the more popular 
treatises of Prof. Atwater, of Prof. Church, of Sir Henry Thompson, of Mro. Ellen 
H. Richar48 and others, are apparently but little known ; while Mrs. Abel's " Lomb 
prize essay " upon cooking is the only American cookery book known to me in which 
any exact instructions are given for working with a measured heat. If there are 
any cookery books except French, known to any one among my hearers, in which 
the heat that is to be applied is defined in anything but general terms, — such as a 
slow oven or a quick oven, — I should be glad to have the title of the work. 

Again, every one who has anything -to do with horses or cows knows the differ- 
ence between outs and corn ; between horse hay and rowen. He may even know 
that the proteids or nitrogenous elements of the oats are required to maintain the 
muscular energy of the horse. He may know that the fat in Indian corn, cracked. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 23 

can be assimilated by the working horse^ generating greater but slower force. He 
may know that the full proportion of starch (carbo-hydrates) must go either with 
the nitrogen or fat in due proportion. To how many has it ever occurred that 
there should be as definite instructions for feeding men and women as there now 
are for feeding horses and cows? The food of men must be suitable to the kind of 
work and to the intensity of the work — so that it may be assimilated. Each 
human being must have the true proportion of proieid, of fat and of starch, with 
lesser proportions of the mineral salts ; else, even with an abundance, he may not be 
well nourished. True, that through a process of natural selection, and by way of 
experience without scientific knowledge, each race and each nation has found out 
the kind of food or the combinations that will give the right proportions of nutri- 
ents at the least cost. But as a rule the food of men and women is served without 
the slightest attention to proportions or to waste, following only, under the pressure 
of necessity, a sort of blind instinct. I do not propose to bring each man or each 
woman to a measured quantity every day. That would be very foolish to undertake ; 
but may there not be certain broad and general rules, which, when once laid down, 
may serve to give direction to the purchase of food material, thereby assuring full 
nutrition with the saving of that vast waste which is almost a disgrace to this 
nation? 

The chemical standards of nutrition which have been established by Professor 
Voit and others in Germany, by Sir Lyon Playfair in England, by Dr. Pavey, and 
other competent authorities, vary in some measure from the American standard. 
What I name the American standard is that which has been elaborated mainly 
through the investigations of Professor William 0. Atwater, Mrs. Ellen H. Rich- 
ards, and others. It contains a somewhat larger proportion of fat than the Euro- 
pean dietaries ; perhaps thereby becoming more suitable to the colder and more 
changeable conditions of the climate of the northern section of the United States, 
and to the more energetic life of our people. 

When the chemical units of nutrition in all these various dietaries are computed in 
units of lieat or Calories they are all substantially uniform — through this conversion the 
computation of standard dietaries becomes very simple and can be varied according to tlie 
age, sex and the kind of work for which the food is to supply energy. 

If we may now adopt the Calorie as the unit of nutrition, it becomes a very 
simple matter to prepare rules and tables that shall be a true guide to intelligent 
I>erson8 in the purchase and in the consumption of food; not day by day, but by the 
adoption of standards corresponding in every way to the chemical elements and 
to the units of heat, say for thirty days. I think we may even put tiie whole 
art of nutrition by and by, into the common school arithmetics, in the form of 



24 THE 8CIBN0E OF KUTRITION. 

examples of addition^ multiplication and the like; it seems to me that they would 
be very much better lessons for children than many of the logical puzzles in figures 
which I have found in the school arithmetics that are wholly unfit to be there; per- 
plexing children instead of teaching them. 

I haye made some progress in this matter^ and I will hereafter submit some of 
the results in the form of tables. They have not yet been revised by competent 
authorities to the full extent^ but are in a broad and general way consistent with 
the true standards of nutrition. 

The Calorie or mechanical unit of heat may well be adopted as the unit of 
capacity for work either mental or manual— either with hand or brain. In its 
application to food material it works its conversion into nutritious food, and in the 
further conversion of the food by assimilation to the sustenance of the body it is 
the synonym for healthy existence, strength and activity. To the direction of this 
force, and to the end that it may make and not mar wholesome living, attention is 
now being given. 

The exaot standard of nutrition for a man at active but not excessive work is 
760 grams of actual nutritive and digestible material free of water; 450 of carbo- 
hydrates or starch; 150 of fats; 160 of protein; with such mineral ingredients as 
will be found in any miscellaneous dietary in sufiicient measure. These elements 
will yield 3,520 Calories or mechanical units of heat, the Calorie being the amount of 
heat necessary to raise one kilo or 1,000 grams of water one degree centigrade. Of 
course persons vary in the quantity of food which can be assimilated, according to 
many varying conditions of life. 

In order to make allowance for unavoidable waste we may safely adopt 4,000 
Calories as the average units of nutrition for a man at active but not excessive worL 
for one day. 

On this unit we may make variations by percentage in ratio to the kind of 
work done, the sex and the weight of the consumer. 

In about the ordinary proportions of grain, meat and vegetables in which food 
is purchased, I find that one pound containing the proportions of starch, fat and 
nitrogen required by the American standard yields about 1,200 Calories. 

A day's ration of 4,000 Calories therefore calls for three and one-third to threb 
and a half pounds of food material of the ordinary kinds. Tea, coffee and the 
sugar and cream used therein, water of other liquids consumed as beverages, not 
being included in this computation. Beverages, except cocoa, possess but little 
food value. 

Now, while it might be unreasonable to expect an exact measure or unit of 
nutrition to be adopted and put in practice day by day, it becomes a very simple 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 25 

matter to establish a rule for the purchase of 100 pounds of food per month, or 
thirty days' rations at three and one-third to three and a half pounds each. 

As a tentative measure yet to be more accurately computed^ I have made the 
following table consistently with those general rules. 

It is not a fancy table. In order to get a true basis for the retail prices of the 
cheaper kinds of food in Boston^ some of which, notably the prices of potatoes and 
of course hominy or samp, are very high, I employed a lady who is much interested 
in this matter to get prices in Boston at the South End, the superintendent of a 
branch of the New England Kitchen at the North End, the colored cook who is 
employed in my office kitchen at the West End, and my office boy, a bright lad, to 
get prices in the neighborhood of our largest market — Quincy Market. I averaged 
these four returns in making this table, and I have printed them all in one of my 
circulars. 

My first table is made on the basis of the cheaper kinds of meat and fish and 
the best kinds of flour, grain and vegetables, all bought at retail. There is a con- 
siderable margin for reduction if these articles were bought in large quantities. If 
bread is bought rather than baked at home on my methods, the price of bread 
taken at two and a half cents a pound must be doubled in Boston. In New York 
you can buy better bread at three cents a pound cash at Mr. Samuel Howe's National 
Bakeries than we can get in Boston at six cents. 

In reducing the pounds of food to nutrients and Calories I have assumed that 
the meat and vegetables will be purchased in variety and I have therefore taken 
«he average of each class of foods in my computation. 

Thirty days' rations, yielding substantially 1,200 Calories per pound, in the 
proportion of three elements of starch to one of protein and one of fat. 

Milk may be substituted for some of the meat fat or pork, but of course in much 
larger measure by weight. 

See subsequeipt tables given in Part II, which have been carefully corrected 
since this lecture was given. 

Table No. 1 is now given as an example. This is given in place of a less accu* 
rate dietary which was given in, the original lecture. 



26 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTKITION. 



Dietary No. 1, fob 30 Days. 

Suitable in nutrients (protein, starch and fats) and in Calories or mechanical 
equivalents of heat, to the full nutrition of an adult, occupied in work which gives 
moderate exercise. Price of flour by the sack or barrel — all other prices for small 
quantities at retail. 

CONSTANTS SUFFABLE TO DIKTARII8 1 TO 12, INCLUSIVE. 

22 lbs. Flour at 2>^ cts. . . . . .55 

.12 
.09 
.27 
.56 
.12 
.25 
.10 
.09 
.05 
.11 



8 




Oatmeal, at 4 ots. 


8 




Oommeal, at 8 ots. 


6 




Hominy, at 4)i cts. 


2 




Butter, at 28 ots. 


2 




Suet, at 6 cts. 


10 




Potatoes, at 2}i ots. 


2 




Sugar, at 5 cts. 


8 




Oabbage, at 8 ots. 


2 




Carrots, at 2}i cts. 


2 




Onions, at 5^ ots. 



57 



2.81 Calories, 79,770 



CONSTANTS IN QUANTTFT, VARIABLE IN PBIOE ACCORDING TO KIND AND QUALITY. 

Low priced. 
12 lbs. Beef, neck or shin, at 6 cts. 
'* Mutton, neck, at 6 cts. 



5 
4 
2 
1 *» 

1 »» 



** Bacon, at 12 ots. 
^' Beef liver, at 6 ots. 

Veal, at 8 ots. . 

Pork, at 8 cts. . 



.72 




.80 




.48 




.12 




.08 




.08 




1.78 


Calories, 24,256 


$4.09 


104,029 


.136 


8,46? 


.952 





25 

82 lbs. total, 80 days, . . • 

2 78-100 lbs. for one day, 

Cost per week, . • • • 

TPith less meat and fat and more vegetables and milk the weight wil| be f^eater. 

The exact standards of American nutrition are much higher than those of 
Enrope, as they may well be in order that the much higher rates of wages which 
our people earn may be fully justified and sustained by the greater amount of 
potential energy which our abundant product of food enables us to supply at low 
cost. They are as follows: 



THB SCIEKGB OF NUTRITION. 



27 





With Waste 


Exact. 


Added. 


4,060 


Calories, 4,600 


3,620 


' »* 4,000 


2,816 


3,200 


2,800 


»* 2,600 



No. 1. Man at hard work, .... 

" 2. Man at moderate work, .... 

** 8. Man at light exercise or woman at moderate work, 

*' 4. Woman at light exercise, 

On this basis, on the cost of the foregoing standard. Class 1 would require 
daily: 

3 7-8, say 4 lbs. food, about 1,200 Calories per lb., at 6 cents per lb., . . 20 cts. 
Class 2. 

3 3-8, say 8 1-2 lbs. food, about 1,200 Calories per lb., at 6 cents per lb., . 17 1-2 cts. 
Class 3. 

2 6-8, say 2 3-4 lbs. food, about 1,200 Calories per lb., at 6 cents per lb., 13 3-4 cts. 

Class 4. 

2 1-8, say 2*1-4 lbs. food, about 1,200 Calories per lb., at 6 cents per lb., . 12 1-2 cts. 

On a minimum basis, therefore, yet one which may be readily adopted, the 
nutritive material which is necessary for a man at hard work in Boston can be pur- 
chased in small quantities at retail prices at 20 i;ents a day or 11.40 per week. 

For a' man at moderate work, at 17^ cents a day or $1.22^ per week. 

For a man at light exercise or a woman at moderate work, at 13f cents a day 
or .96 J per week. 

For a woman at light exercise, at 1^ cents a day or .87^ per week. . 

As these purchases would be made in pounds, and as in every element a suitable 
addition has been made for what may be called reasonable waste, the common 
measure would be substantially as follows: 



PIR DAT 



Meats,. 

Suet or Fat, 

Salt Pork, 

Butter, 

Fish, . 

Bread, 

Hominy, Oat and Com Meal, 

Beans or Pease, 

Sugar, 

Roots and other Vegetables, 



about 


10 i 


oz. 






1 








1 








11-2 








3 








14 








6 








2 








3 








12 1-2 




54 ounces. 



That does not sound like a very meagre diet. 



28 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

If eggs are added at four per week at 8 cents each (city prices for fresh eggs), .12 cts. 

With fruit at per week* . .09 ** 

Tea and Coffee, . . . .07 ** 

Four cents per day, . . .28 cts. 

thto unit of nutrition at the low priced standard would be as follows: 









KKK DAT. 


t 




Class 1, 
- 2, 


Required 


Food, 20 
*' 17 1-2 


Add Eggs, Fruit and 

i( H U t( 


Beverage at 4 cts., 
at 4 *• 


.24 
.21 1-2 


u- 3^ 


n 


" 13 3-4 


(( ik (I a 


at 4 ** 


.17 3-4 


- 4, 


4 ( 


*» 12 1-2 


4( i( tl (( 

P£R WEEK. 


at 4 *» 


.16 1-2 


Class 1, 
- 2, 




$1.88 
1.50 1-2 


including £ggs, Fruit and Beverages. 

(t n a (( 




** 3, 




1.24 1-2 


(( (( n 


<( 





it 4^ 1.15 1-2 ** *' »* *» 

I am not yet prepared to say how much this ration No. 1 would weigh with the 
water added in the processes of cooking. 

The bread is computed with the water in it which the flour takes up at 40 per 
cent, on the weight of flour. 

Meats and fish may be combined with water in different portions. As the 
coarse or tough parts are better in soups^ stews and hashes^ the water added would 
be in large proportion. 

Hominy and meal take up several times their weight in water, while vegetalbles 
shrink both in the preparation and in cooking. I should think this unit of nutri- 
tion at threejind one-third pounds would weigh about five pounds after cooking. 
I am too much of a sedentary man, and I find that my average ration of cooked 
food with water taken up in the process, aside from beverages, is about three and a 
half pounds, and on the basis of the dietary submitted I could live well at II per 
week . 

In anticipation of this meeting I devoted Fast Day, April 2d, to some experi- 
ments. I caused one of my ovens to be substantially filled with food, in eight 
combinations. This experiment is repeated in one of these ovens to-night, which 
we will presently open. 



THE SCIENCE OF KUTRITIOK. 



29 



The food purchased was as follows, at Brookline prices: 

MEAT AND FISH. 

2 lbs. Shin Beef, without bone, 7 cents, 

2 ** Veal, •* *« 5 cents, 

2 *' Beef Liver, 

1-2 " Bacon, 

2 *' Mutton flank, 

1 ** Saet, 

2 '* Halibut Nape, 
1-2 *» Salt Pork, 



12 lbs. Meat Fat and Fish, 

1 lb. Hominy, 

8-4 '' Oatmeal, 

1 ** Com Meal, 

1-4 " Rice, 



3Ib3. 



4 lbs. Potatoes, 

1 ^* Turnips, onions, etc., 

.5 lbs. 

4 lbs., 2 quarts, Skimmed milk, 

Salt, Spice, etc., say 



GRAIN. 



TEOBTABLBS. 



.14 

.10 
.16 
.07 
.10 
.05 
.10 
.06 



.04 
.08 
.08 
.02 



.10 
.05 



.78 



.12 



.15 
.16 
.04 

$1.25 



20 lbs. solid, .... 

4 *' liquid, 
12 ** water, 

86 lbs. Put into the oven at 9.30 a. m. 
Removed from oven at 2 p. m. 
Weight of cooked food, 82 lbs. 
Loss by evaporation of water, 4 lbs. 

I have not computed the Calories or nutrients in this quantity. It is intended 
to show what can be done in one oven at one time. It took somewhat less than one 
hour to prepare the eight combinations, namely one dish each: Beef and hominy 
hash; veal, hominy and tomato; mutton stew; liver and bacon with com meal; 
halibut nape and potato, baked; oatmeal, plain; poor man^s pudding; baked Indian 
pudding. 



30 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

You may presently test the quality of these combinations. We have put in 
forty pounds this time and may take out thirty-five to thirty-six. 

With such a lot of food, strong in fat and nitrogen, there should be at least 
twelve pounds of bread and twelve pounds of vegetables, say twenty-four pounds 
at two and a half cents»».60. 

24 lbs. added, . . . .60 

86 lbs. cooked as recited, . . 1.25 

Add for dried apple sauce ^r some cbeap kind of fruit, . .15 

Total, 60 lbs., at a cost of $2.00 

You don't half believe it. Nor did I until I had proved it more than once. 
Presently you shall have an object lesson when this oven is opened. 

Now, if my methods of combining nutrition and arithmetic by the standard of 
Calories and nutrients has no other result, it may lead to as much attention being 
given to the nutrition of the human beings in city institutions as is given to feeding 
the horses in the city stables. From some communications that have been made to 
me I am inclined to think that right at this point is a place for scientific charity. 

I gave a seven-course dinner party at my house a few days since to my whist 
club and friends, including oranges and coffee, which cost thirteen cents each for 
food material. Each cigar consumed after dinner cost more than the dinner. 

I lately gave a dinner of four courses, soup, fish, meat and vegetables, and 
mush with molasses for dessert, to nine of the poorer students at Harvard who 
want to economize, and there were three others. Each had a pound and a half of 
strong food. The cost for the twelve was sixty-one cents. * 

The quaatity of oil of 150 degree flash test that will be consumed on this forty 
pounds of food will be one and a half pints at one and a half cents per pint, two and 
a quarter cents. 

There may be some variations to be made on the American standard. 

In the judgment of Sir Henry Thompson, with whom I consulted personally, 
we concentrate our food a great deal too much in this country; we fine down our 
flour and lose in nutrition as well as in bulk; we also eat too much meat and fat. 
Moreover, the ration of meat and fat which may serve us well in winter may serve 
us ill in summer. 

In order to meet these variations we may change the thirty day dietary. 
When we substitute more grain and vegetable food, we reduce the Calories per 
pound, and we therefore require more pounds a day. 

We may also change the nntrients from 3 starch to 1 protein and 1 fat to four 
starch, 1.1 protein and 1 fat. 



THE SCEENCB OF NUTRITION. 31 

In Part II tables one to twelve, inclnsivey will serve as a trne guide in this 
matter, bat the proportions mnst be subject to variation by personal experience, 
for all. (See revisions in subsequent tables.) There is no hard and fast rule. 

It will be observed that in these low-priced dietaries we have not included eggs. 
In our factory boarding-houses in Massachusetts, the consumption of eggs per adult 
is one every other day. One egg every other day, at 16j^ cents a dozen, comes to $3 a 
year per adult. We may compute our present population as being equal to 50,000,- 
000 adults; 50,000,000 adults, at $3 each, would spend $150,000,000 a year for eggs. 

The factory boarding-house standard cannot be declared a very extravagant 
one, as ^* the Mealers, " who come from a distance to their work, are supplied and 
served with twenty-one meals per week, at 11.60 to $1.75 for women ; $2.00 to $2.25 
for men. 

I know of no other place where such fairly well-eooked meals are furnished at 
so small a charge. Of course there is no rent charged to this account. 

This is a sketch of the elements of the science or art of nutrition which may 
perhaps be perfected and may possibly be taught in the common school arithmetics. 

I have thus presented a theory of nutrition at a minimum cost. But it could 
only be attained in practice under our existing conditions by people of more than 
common intelligence. It would be almost impossible to attain with the use of the 
cooking apparatus now in common use; yet at this standard, witness to what incom- 
prehensible figures we are led when dealing with the whole mass of our population. 

Whoever is right as to the enumeration of the census year, we now number about 
65,000,000 in 1891. If we make the utmost reduction for children of ten or under, 
keeping in consideration the larger need of growing children from ten to seventeen; 
also bearing in mind the great proportion of all who get their living by '^the sweat 
of their brow^^ and who must have ample nutrition, we cannot estimate the con- 
sumption of food at less than what would be required by 50,000,000 adult men at 
active or moderate work or women at active work, corresponding in their require- 
ments to a standard of nutrition somewhat under Glass 2 and little over Class 3, 
or 14J cents a day, which comes to one dollar a week for food; to which we may 
add a quarter of a dollar a week for eggs or milk^ tea, coffee and fruit. 

At $52 per year the food necessary to sustain 60,000,000 adults comes to $^,600,000,000 

At $13 per year, the eggs or milk, tea, coffee and fruit come to . 650,000,000 

Food and wholesome beverages, ...... $3,250,000,000 

The most conservative estimate of the cost of beer, wine and spirits to 

the oonsumers is ' ....... 750,000,000 

Total (in 1895 total at least $5,000,000,000) . . . $4,000,000,000 



82 THB SGIEKCE OF NUTBITIOK. 

The problem with which we are dealing to-night in the mere alphabet^ we Hare 
at the mere beginning of an attempt to apply the same science to the nutrition of 
man, that we have so long been attempting to apply to the nutrition of the soil, 
the plant and the beast of the field; our problem is how to cook not less than 

Three Billion Dollars' Worth of Meat^ Fish, Grain akd Vegetables 

A Yp:ar (in 1895, say Foi:r Billion). 

I think you will admit, ladies and gentlemen, that it was quite time to apply 
science in the kitchen and to develop a true and simple art of cooking. 

At what price will you measure the waste of labor, the waste of fuel, the waste 
of heat, the waste of comfort, the waste of temper, the waste of health, the waste 
of morality and sobriety due to the waste upon whisky which is again due to lack 
of well-cooked food? Is this waste a billion dollars^ worth of potential energy a 
year? Is it not a great deal more? 

Perhaps you will come to the conclusion that the potato gospel will bear a great 
deal of preaching. 

Ought there not to be a cooking laboratory attached to every agricultural 
experiment station? Would one be out of place even in Columbia College? 

But, ladies and gentlemen, there is another aspect of this case. True economy 
does not consist in living on shin of beef or halibut nape. Very few people^ can 
afford to waste the time that would be required to live at a cost of a dollar a week, 
or at fourteen cents a day, unless obliged to do so. There is a certain horse-sense in 
the reply of the workman to some of these suggestions when he says, ^' We don't 
want your bone-soup" and ''We won't have your pig-wash. Give us something 
better than what we are used to, or better cooked than we now get it.*' 

Suppose we double the price, put up the prices of the animal food to rates 
which would be paid for good solid meat free of bone and of good quality; add a 
pint of milk, an excess of butter and one egg every day. I think this ration cor- 
responds closely to the average consumption and expenditure in the families of 
well-to-do people; if we add to this food ten cents a day for tea, coffee, condiments 
and fruit, we make the total equal to fifty cents a day for each inmate of the 
household. 

It is probable that much more than half a pound of clear meat free of bone is 
brought into the kitchen of well-to-do people who are not extravagant, for each 
adult every day. I have made a few inquiries at some of the very best hotels — and 
am satisfied that there are many in which the price paid for food per day is one 
dollar per inmate or two dollars per guest, counting one person in the service of 
the house to each guest. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTEITION. 



33 



Table 2, Computed at Fifty Cents per head Including Extras. 

Four pounds food at about 1,200 Calories per pound = 4,800 Calories, one 
pound milk added, 310 Calories, making five pounds =« 6,110 Calories. 

1-2 lb. Clear Meat, at an average of 20 cts. per lb., . .10 



1-4 
1-4 

1 
1 

1-4 
1 1-4 

1-2 



ii 



ii 



(( 



n 



(I 



n 



(( 



(t 



ii 



it 



i( 



ii 



it 



16 
86 
86 



M 



Ci 



i( 



Fish, 
Batter, 

1 Sgg) 

1 Pint Milk, 

Bread, .... 

Oatmeal, rice, hominy or com meal, 

Vegetables, 

Sugar, 



t( 



ii 



perdoz., 



.04 
.00 
.08 
.04 
.03 
.01 
.08 
.08 



5 lbs. .40 cts. 

Tea, Coffee, Fruit and Spices extra. .10 ** 

This would be an excessive allowance for a man at very hard work, if it were all 
cooked in such a way that it could be assimilated; with water added it would weigh 
as much as seven pounds. 

You will find that fifty cents' worth a day per inmate comes into your houses, 
even if you think you live rather simply. It cannot be consumed. How much is 
wasted? 

I myself eat about three and a half pounds a day, including soup, but not 
including fruit or beverages. 

At my standard about three-fifths of that ration, at forty cents, or twenty-four 
cents' worth, suffices. 

If proper methods of cooking were adopted and right methods of utilizing 
what is now wasted in the ordinary method of buying and preparing this food 
material, all the potential energy in this dietary could be enjoyed by the average 
adult, at twenty-eight cents a day or in round figures at two dollars per week. 

At two dollars a week the food bill of 60,000,000 adults comes to $5,200,000,000 
a year. 

By statistical analysis of our crops and food products, projected from the gross 
valuations and wholesale data to their points of ultimate consumption, I am fully 
satisfied that the food bill of this country is in fact as much as five billions of dol- 
lars and is probably more. 

I am also satisfied that one-fifth part of this huge volume of good material is 
converted t7ito bad feeding. In other words, for lack of science in the economy 
of the kitchen $1,000,000,000 worth a year of potential energy is wasted. How 
shall we save it? 



34 THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 

. Life is but a conversion of force which takes the form of clothing, food and 
shelter. That is all that any of us get out of the material products by which we 
are sustained, sheltered and clothed. 

If this misdirection of force of one billion dollars' worth were converted by the 
saving of that part of the potential energy in the food consumed which is now 
wasted — or if this force were given a new direction into the work that would be 
required to provide house-room — nearly twice the shelter now enjoyed would ensue. 
The worst problem with which we are called to deal would then be solved — the 
housing of the masses. 

The family now in one room could have two; the destruction of the poor is 
their poverty, and the wgrst waste of food is among them. The family now in 
three rooms, if once taught the art of nutrition, might have five, and those who 
now have as many rooms as are required could direct the force now wasted to greater 
comfort and to the higher plane which only in the long run makes life worth living.. 

Have my figures led you away into visionary conceptions, such as any one may 
find in the dry columns of statistical science if only he has the eye to see what is 
written between the lines or is inscribed behind the columns? 

Let us then get back at once to ovens and to the practical problem of food and 
feeding. I have expended as much money as I can afford in my own empirical but 
somewhat practical methods of developing this oven. My good friends, Mr. Andrew 
Carnegie, his partner Mr. Phipps, and several of my Boston friends have furnished 
a part of the means by which Mrs. Richards has been enabled to work out the 
scientific application of right methods of applying heat to some of the processes of 
cooking. A very benevolent lady, whose life is full of good works, has furnished 
the capital for establishing the New England Kitchen, through which the products 
of my process as well as of other processes of plain, wholesome cooking are being 
distributed on a commercial basis, in the shape of wholesome, nutritious and well- 
cooked food at moderate prices which yield a reasonable profit. 

I have now engaged a competent teacher of cooking, who, under the general 
direction of Mrs. Richards, will work out the beginning of the problem of a cook- 
ing laboratory. As I have stated, it is in this matter that I may move faster the 
better J am sustained. I shall devote my own profits in the oven business to the 
oven development as far as they may go. I do not desire any assistance from any 
one in that part of my undertaking, but the development of a cooking laboratory 
opens a much wider field and it is beyond me.* 



* Subsequently to this lecture Mr. Theodore A. Havemeyer placed $1,000 at my disposal for further researob 
and $6,000 at the disposal of Prof essor Egleston for the establishment In New York of a kitchen correspond 
\ng to the New England Kitchen of Boston. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. , 35 

We will now come to the second part of my discourse — the preparation of food. 
After having filled a shelf in my library full of cookery books, to which I have given 
careful attention, adding treatises on nutrition and physiological essays on alimen- 
tation, I have come to a very simple conclusion covering the whole ground. The 
two simple rules for qualifying any one after a little practice to become a good plain 
cook and first-rate bread maker may be repeated. 

Take a little heat off the top of a small lamp; put it into a wooden box with a 
little water in order to raise your bread; take some heat off the top of a large lamp, 
put it into a wood-pulp or paper box, and keep it there to bake your bread or to 
cook your food. That is the first rule. 

In the preparation of food the single rule is this : Take one part of gumption 
and one part of food; mix them together in a dish or pan, then put the compound 
into the oven and keep it there long enough for the heat to do the work. Practice 
will soon tell each one how long. 

It is not a very difficult matter, for instance, to make bread. I thought it had 
been until I tried. Then I found that bread-making in the common way, kneading 
by hand, took a good deal of muscle and not much mind; but I do not fancy paws 
and perspiration in my bread; the idea is unpleasant even to speak of. After my 
first lesson I therefore taught my cook how to mix the dough with a stout wooden 
spoon. There is nothing new in the method. I now find that a few people had 
learned this secret before, but not many. The work can be done just as well and 
more quickly. My objection to the ordinary method was well expressed in a story 
lately told me by an old gentleman who took his little grandson to the bakery. The 
next day the boy wanted to go again, and gave this reason: "I want to see that 
fat man who was washing his hands in the brown bread. He gave me a cooky." 
We now use the Stanyan bread-kneader, which is a sort of mechanical spoon and 
knife combined; it is much easier to work than the wooden spoon. 

I then found that there was apt to be a good deal of trouble, delay and uncer- 
tainty in raising the dough. I therefore bought a Case Bread- Raiser, which assures 
the exact measure of fermentation in three and a half to four hours. With these 
three bits of apparatus, the kneader, the raiser and the oven, any one yrho can read 
can learn to make good bread in half an hour so as never to miss it. Baking takes 
two hours in the Aladdin Oven already heated, or a longer period if you like a 
thick, tender crust and tawny color, with nutty fiavor all through the loaf, due to 
the partial change of the starch into dextrine or grape sugar. Here are examples 
of bread which no human hand has touched even from the time the wheat was 
planted until it was taken from the pan in which the loaf was baked. 

But suppose we lay out a dinner. (See subsequent instructions.) 



36 , THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITION. 

I told my office boy one day to prepare just a dinner of five coarses for ten 
people. He had never cooked anything before. He went and did it. Every one 
said it was a good dinner, and I thought so myself. That kind of a dinner is in 
one of these ovens. 

If the trne object in cooking is to develop and retain all the fine natural flavor 
of meat, fish, vegetable, fruit and grain; if the right method is one that will pre- 
vent the more volatile portions of the fats and juices being carried off in bad smells; 
if you desire that the food after it is cooked shall be in a perfectly nutritious and 
digestible condition, the oven indicates the way to attain all these objects. There 
is no constant watching, no stirring the materials over a hot stove to prevent scorch- 
ing or burning. If you desire sauces or gravy they can be prepared over another 
lamp or in a chafing dish. There are no heavy hods of coal to be lifted. There is 
no dust. There are no ashes to be removed. One quart of oil burning eight hours 
in one of these lamps gives off heat enough from the top of the chimney to cook 
fifty or sixty pounds of bread, meat and vegetables, in three separate charges. In 
one of these ovens now before you there are forty pounds of eight different kinds 
of food, which, when served, will have had expended upon them one pint and a half 
of oil valued at about two cents. 

I have observed that in nearly all the cookery books or recipe books the chief 
part of the rules laid down are for making combinations of food material; rules for 
the proportions of each; the quantity of meat and other material; the pounds of 
flour; the dozens of eggs; the ounces of sugar and spice and the way to mix them. 

Of course, any person of common intelligence can follow these printed rules for 
such combinations. 

I next observe that almost all the other instructions in the books are mainly 
directed to overcoming the defects in the common stoves and ranges. You are told 
how to stir the compounds in order to prevent scorching or burning; how the pan 
must first be placed at a given point and just brought to a simmer without being 
allowed to boil, and then moved to another part of the stove where the material 
will only simmer. You are told that for some things you must have a hot oven or 
a quick ovens for others a slow oven; but no accurate definition is given as to what 
** quick ^* or ''slow '^ may happen to be. 

All these variations in the directions and in the processes may be attributed to 
the irregularity and to the constant high heat which is due to the continuous blast 
and to the method of combustion that is necessary to keep up any roasting or 
baking heat in the oven of the iron range or stove. You are told that you must 
not accumulate vapors in the oven, because they may be noxious. This is all non- 
sense. If the oven is subjected to the right method of heat the vapor of the ^ood 



THE SCIBNCE OF NUTRITION. 37 

itself is the best surrounding that you can give it. But when you crack or disso- 
ciate fats^ then it is necessary to remove the vapor in order to avoid the unpleasant 
flavor which burnt fat may give to what is being cooked. I can place and have 
often placed meat^ fish^ cauliflower, onions, tomatoes and custard pudding in the 
same oven at the same time. Neither imparts any flavor to the other, because I 
only evaporate a little water from either kind, without distilling or dissociating the 
juices or the fats. How many times I have heard ladies exclaim, " How I wish I 
could teach my cook how to simmer anything. Why will they always keep such a 
roaring fire?^' 

My first invention was what might have been called a hot- water oven; an 
apparatus in which one could only simmer and stew. I tried to introduce it first 
among those who need instruction most, but I have come to the conclusion that the 
only way to help the ignorant poor is first to ameliorate the condition of the rich. 

To speak seriously, the true method of developing this subject is to deal 
neither with rich nor poor, but with those who possess intelligence and who desire 
to avoid waste. I have lent out twelve or more cooking-pails; some of them to 
ladies who are teachers, who have been in the habit of getting their own breakfast 
and dining at restaurants; ^ome of them to students in Harvard University who 
are under the necessity of working through at the least co3t; some of them to 
ladies of my acquaintance who are eager to try experiments for the benefit of others^ 
and so on. 

The next question which I propose to solve in my present series of experiments 
and in my cooking laboratory, under the direction of an experienced teacher of cook- 
ing, will be the making of sauces and fiavors that may correspond to or bring out yet 
more fully the natural fiavors of the solid food with which they are served. I think that 
the greater part of the complexity of the customary rules and methods for working 
in this department may be done away with. I think that where one has a sure and 
certain contiol over the source of heat, the making of fine sauces, which is one of 
the secrets of the professed cooks, may become as simple as the cooking of the food 
itself. This is not fancy work. It is a true part of the science of nutrition. In 
spite of the gross waste of the multitude there is reason to believe that many per- 
sons, especially among the more cultivated classes of the community, are not suf- 
ficiently nourished because they try to live too simply, or do not choose the right 
kinds of food. We may also find women, especially those who serve in shops, who 
live on very poor food and drink any quantity of tea because they do not know hoTt 
to prepare good food or how to tempt the palate by making it appetizing. I thinl 
it is an important element in the science of nutrition to overcome these depraved 
tastes by tempting the palate with appetizing sauces that can induce these classes of 



38 THE SOIBNOE OF NUTRITIOK. 

people to eat more nutritious food. These are merely impressions which I have 
gained from my empiricaj studies. Probably many of you among my hearers are 
more competent to pass upon this point than I am myself. 

If, thcn^ the absolute control of the source and the measure of heat is so 
important, are we not led directly to the question, " In what does good cooking 
consist?'' And that question brings me to the third part of my discourse. It con- 
sists in the application of heat to the chemical conversion of food material into 
nutritious and appetizing food. It is a somewh(it difficult scientific problem to 
bring into the form of rules, but I am convinced that when these rules are estab- 
lished the art may be made very simple, and may be readily taught to any one of 
ordinary comprehjension and aptitude. 

What is the function of heat in its application to food? My scientific friends 
must give the chemical statement of the work. In its practical result is it not to 
convert the hard grain into nutritious bread? — the raw, sapid, tough and tasteless 
fibers of meat into tender and appetizing dishes? — to render it possible to get the 
infusion of coffee from the roasted berry? 

Now, when you bear in mind the messes that are so often put before you — the 
bad bread, the hard, indigestible and offensive products of the American frying-pan 
and** all the other abominations that come out of the kitchen — you may begin to 
appreciate the importance of holding complete control over the source of the heat 
so that it can be regulated. 

What intelligent control can any one exert over the heat derived from anthra- 
cite coal in an iron stove or range? What does the average cook know about what 
is going on in the oven? 

Is not by far the greater part of the heat derived from the fuel which is either 
forced by the strong draft up the chimney or else radiated into the room? I 
wonder what part of the potential of the coal is converted into actual work in our 
common processes of cooking? 

When we put instruments which are scarcely fit to be used by the most skillful 
cooks into the hands of untrained and uninstructed persons and demand of them a 
fine process of chemical conversion, what right have we to expect any better results 
than what we get? 

Itsecmstomemoststrangethatit should have remained for myself to devise an 
oven made of non-metallic and non-heat conducting material in which heat may be en- 
cased at any established degree. Why have not ovens always been made in this way? 

I have kept heat for a long time at over 400° F., in a small oven of which the 
paper or wood-pulp wall was only five-eighths of an inch thick, yet I could bear my 
hand anywhere upon the outer case. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 39 

May I not then claim the following results in my processeB of conversion? 

Ist. Digestibility. The long application of a very moderate degree of heat 
makes all tongh meats tender. 

•2nd. Although I add nothing to the nutrients which are in the food, I avoid 
much evaporation of the contained water. Is not the food more digestible as well 
as more appetizing in consequence of this retention of all its natural juices and 
nearly all the water that is in it when in the uncooked condition? 

3rd, By keeping the heat below the dissociating or " cracking " point of the 
animal fats, do I not keep the fat in a condition to be assimilated in the process of 
digestion? Whereas, is it not true that a high heat which drives off the volatile 
portion of the fat leaves the remainder in an indigestible condition? 

4th. That my processes do most fully preserve and develop the fine, natural 
flavors of grain, fruit, meat, fish and vegetables is now so fully proved by the testi- 
mony of very many witnesses that this point may no longer be put in the form 
of a question. 

For a long time I suspected my own imagination of misleading me: but one 
lady has written me that last summer she tasted for the first time many vegetables 
which she had been eating all her life. 

Neither is it any longer necessary for me to put questions about the relief from 
care, attention and discomfort, or from dust and ashes; here is the testimony, not 
yet of a thousand, but of more than a hundred witnesses on these points. 

There is one aspect of this question which gives me great satisfaction. 

It opens the way to the re-establishment of the unit of the family as the unit 
of society and of civilization. 

Our success in adopting the collective method in our great factories and work- 
shops, in which after all only about ten per cent, of our working population are oc- 
cupied: our success in solving the problem of moving a year's supply of meat and 
bread a thousand miles at a cost to the common laborer of a. day^s wages: our suc- 
cess in diminishing the margin of profit on the railway service to so low a point that 
if the New York Central could get the present value of the empty barrel at the end 
of the haul of a barrel of fiour a thousand miles it would pay ten per cent, in place 
of five, has put a glamour over a great many otherwise sensible people. 

Even some who claim to be economists want to adopt the collective method or 
to extend it over all the conditions of society. Hence the rush to the legislature 
and to Congress to remedy all the ills of life by legislation. One man would abolish 
poverty by piling all the taxes on land; another by nationalizing industry, whatever 
that may mean; another by stopping importations and making more work with less 
product; another by destroying all the tenement houses, as if no house at all were 



40 THB 8CIBHCB OP NOTBITION. 

better than some kind of a houee vhen it is oTercrowded and dirty, and so on 
throughoat the gamut. 

It seems to me that we shall never elevate humanity until we teach men and 
women how to live. We shall never make homes happy eicept we work on the 
unit of the family. 

If I can show how a family of five can be nourished as well and as cheaply as 
a phalanstery of five hundred then I may claim that in developing the simple art of 
nutrition and in doing away with what one of my correspondents calls " the slavery 
of stove " I may deserve a pleasant remembrance in the homes of the future. 

I am now prepared to present my object lessons and to answer any questions if 
they are not too scientific. 

(Subsequently to the delivery of the lecture, the conteats of the five ovens and 
four pails were served to about two hundred people.) 



THE ALADDIN OVEN. 

WHAT IT IS. 

It occurred to me one day that heat could be put into a box^ kept there^ and 
converted into work — the work of cooking. 

What sort of a box? — an iron box?— no, iron will not hold the heat, it wastes it, 
and seems to cook the cook and not the victuals. The ovens of stoves and ranges, 
are iron boxes and are therefore not fit to be used. 

Why should the iron boxes which make the ovens of iron stoves and ranges 
be ventilated? Because in order to cook food in them at all, such an excess of heat 
must be applied that they become fat boilers, or fat-rendering machines ; the foul 
smells generated in this process are not wanted in any house. 

What is the effect of this process on the food ? This boiling or rendering is a 
process of partial distillation or dissociation; the fats are ^^ cracked^' as the 
chemists term it — the finer volatile parts and flavors are thrown off, generating un- 
pleasant smells in the process, while the residue of the fat is left in a gross and in- 
digestible condition with the other tissues which are deprived of their fine flavor. 

That is the reason why it does not much matter what one calls for at many 
hotels and restaurants, all the meat tastes alike or is tasteless alike. 

Why not, then, apply heat directly to the food in an oven like the common kero- 
sene stove oven ? 

For many reasons : If the lamp smokes or smells the food is tainted ; the direct 
heat scorches or burns without the slow penetration which is needed in fine cooking; 
the direct heat also dessicates the food and drives off the fine volatile flavors. 

Conclusion.^— All metal ovens, — all ventilated ovens — and all ovens in which 
excessive heat is applied to food, are more or less unsuitable to fine cooking. To 
that radical conclusion my observations have led me. 

Having cleared away the obstructions by condemning almost every kind of ap- 
paratus now in use except,^ of course, a well-devised broiler to be used over char- 
coal — or an old-fashioned brick oven — or a tin kitchen before an open fire — the next 
question was : 

What can be done about it ? 

}S.en have no right to scold their wives, or use swear words about the cook, and 
find fault with their meals in a constant and promiscuous way, if they only supply 



44 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

the Oven by placing it underneath and resting it upon a block of wood or on a 
plate or saucer reversed, of such height as to carry the top of the chimney even 
with the under side of the outer oven. With this adjustment the maximum of 
heat will be conducted into the Oven and there will be no tendency to smoke from 
too close a contact of the top of the chimney with the metal. The lamp should not 
be put at the full height at which it may be expected to burn, for ten or fifteen 
minutes after it is lighted, lest it should smoke. 

The oven will not become fully seasoned and will not do its work with full 
effect until about two weeks after it is first put into use. Usually the iron movable 
shelf which rests upon the bottom of the inner oven, Ji^eeping pans and dishes about 
half an inch away from absolute contact with the bottom of the oven, should be 
kept there in all processes of roasting, baking or simmering. When it is desired to 
broil, this shelf should be taken out. In a process corresponding to broiling, the 
large pan with the wire drainer in it should be put in. The slices of meat, chops 
or chicken should be laid upon this wire drainer, where they will be cooked in a 
manner closely corresponding to broiling. 

For saut^ing the pan should be put, with a little butter in it, directly upon the 
bottom of the oven. The cold Indian pudding, the fish, or whatever subject may 
be in process of sautding, should then be laid in the pan and watched until 
it is done. 

In order to toast bread, remove both the shelf and the pan ; place the wire 
frame directly upon the bottom of the oven, lay the slices of toast upon the wire. 

When many'kinds of food are to be cooked at one time in the same oven, some 
of which may give off a good deal of water by evaporation, it will be expedient 
to have a dish or pan for the roast with feet to it about half an inch high, so as to 
keep the bottom of the pan from direct contact with the bottom of the oven. In this 
pan place the meat that is to be roasted, or any other kind of food to which it is desira- 
ble to give a brown or crusted appearance, then remove the close sheet of iron from 
the bottom and place these pans on the actual bottom of the oven itself ; then put 
the close sheet of iron which has no holes in it on the middle bearings above the 
roast, and put the watery dishes on the upper spaces and if necessary open the ven- 
lator a little so that the vapor can escape through the orifice. 

By this arrangement a comparatively dry and browning heat will be attained in 
the lower space, while the moisture from the watery dishes will be wholly in the 
upper spaces. 

. Under these conditions, give about a third to a half as much more time as would 
be required in a common stove ; with some kinds of food, twice as long. A little 
experience will be needed with each oven. Each oven will require a few days' 



THE SOIENOB OF N^UTRITION. 45 

seasoning in order to bring it to its normal condition and to overcome a little odor 
which is given off by the material with which the wood pulp is prepared. 

If it id desirable to boil anything in a pot or jar, all the shelves may be removed 
and the vessel may be placed directly on the bottom of the oven, over the lamp ; in 
this case the ventilator should be opened to let off the steam, but for ordinary work 
it is not necessary to open the ventilator. 

The heat of this oven may be raised to about 300 to 400 degrees with the lamps 
described ; it will be a little hotter at the bottom than at the top ; but under this 
arrangement and at this degree of heat, fish^ meat, custard^ cauliflower and onion 
tnay all be cooked together without any flavor being imparted from one to the other; 
because there will be no distillation of the fats or juices of the food, only a little 
evaporation of water. At a much higher degree of heat there would be danger of 
the flavors passing over, and also danger that the smell of cooking might pervade the 
room, hence if a lamp of larger capacity ^nd power is used it must be used with care. 

A great deal of cooking may be done very slowly by night, by substituting a 
common flat-wicked lamp, of moderate power, for the kind previously named — 
wick one and a quarter inches to two inches wide — or a duplex burner. This 
lamp, if placed in position, will not raise the heat of the oven above 200° Fahr., 
at which degree of heat grain, meat and fish may be very slowly and tenderly 
isooked if left to take care of themselves throughout the night. 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR HEATING THE ALADDIN OVEN WITH GAS. 

There are many persons to whom the use of kerosene oil and the care of lamps 
is objectionable. 

The oven can be worked with gas burned in a Bunsen burner as well as with 
the lamp, but it will require a little experience in order not to overheat, or to scorch 
or burn the food. One of my correspondents in Pittsburgh applies the natural gas 
with entire success and at a merely nominal cost. (See Appendix.) With the in- 
troduction of low priced gas for heating purposes, the economy of fuel applied to 
cooking may become as great as when oil is used. 

If the common illuminating gas is used, apply the Bunsen burner, capable of 
consuming not over five feet an hour at the highest pressure to which the gas con- 
sumed on the premises can be subjected at night when the pressure is greatest. 
This will assure safety when the oven is worked by night. 

The measure of gas required for ordinary work by day will be readily ascer- 
tained after a little practice. 

BUNSEN GAS BURNER. 

The beat form of Bunsen burner is one which has a circular top with small per- 
forations around the edges, each yielding a little tip of flame. 



46 THE SCIENCE OF NTJTEITION. 

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS. 

WARMING WATEE. 

Bemove the tin tube in which the ventilator is, place a pan or kettle of water 
over the orifice and the heat from the oven will warm it sufficiently for many pur- 
poses ; notably for washing cooking vessels^ plates and dishes. 

For this purpose it is not necessary or expedient to use hot water and soap. 
Put into a pan of tepid water a teaspoonf ul of kerosene oil. This oil has a great 
affinity for grease with which it combines in an emulsion. This process takes the 
grease from the pan or crockery ware without leaving any taint of either grease or oilf 

Any one who is prejudiced against such use of kerosene oil may first try this 
process on greasy dishtowels : Put a little kerosene oil into a pan of tepid water; 
soak the towels in that emulsion;, then pour it off and rinse out in clear cold water. 
No scouring required. 

GENEEAL DIEECTI0N8. 

Bread. — In baking bread which has been kneaded in the usual way, it is better 
to make the loaves so as to weigh from one and one-quarter to one and one-half 
pounds each ; bake them two hours or longer according to taste, but change the 
position of the loaves when about half baked, placing those on the top shelf below, 
and those below on the top shelf. If it is desired to give the nutty flavor of crust 
to the whole loaf, the baking may be continued for a much longer period. 

The Case bread-raiser is a most useful appliance ; it consists of a wooden box 
with an opening in the bottom, into which slides a tin pan, which may contain 
water half an inch deep ; the box has a glass front ; about two inches above the pan 
is a perforated wooden shelf on which the pan of dough is placed to be raised ; a 
little more than half way above is another similar shelf ; a very small kerosene lamp 
with a flame about as big as a thumb-nail or a little larger, is placed under the 
bottom of the tin pan ; this develops a moist heat by which the dough is raised ready 
for the baking pans in three and one-half to four hours, without regard to any outside 
conditions ; it may then be removed from the raising pan to the baking pans, put 
back again into the bread-raiser for thirty minutes, and it is then ready for the 
oven. The advantage in the use of this bread-raiser is that the time can be estab- 
lished with certainty at which the loaves will be ready for the oven. The bread 
being made in the morning can be baked in the afternoon, or after the dinner has 
been removed from the Aladdin Oven. Orders for this bread-raiser may be sent to 
Mr. Daniel Dudley, 91 Carver street, Boston. 

In order to make most excellent bread with the least work, knead with a spoon 
in proportion of one quart white flour, or whole wheat flour, or rye meal^ with one 



THE 8CIBU0B OP KUTEITION. 47 

pint or a little less warm water^ salt to taste, and one-third of a cake of Fleisch- 
mann's compressed yeast (fresh) dissolved in half a teacup of warm water ; stir 
ten minutes or more so as to mix the yeast thoroughly into a very thick batter like 
common dough, put in the pans and raise in bread-raiser about three hours, then 
move to the oven already heated and bake two, three or four hours, according to 
taste. (See subsequent reference to a bread-kneader.) 

Roasting. — Place the joint or poultry in a pan, baste with butter and bread 
crumbs when put in, and place for the quickest work upon the tight shelf which 
rests upon the bottom of the oven, but not directly upon the bottom ; for slower 
work, upon the next shelf. 

Baking or Cooking Fish. — Baste with a little butter and crumbs of bread or 
cracker ; place in a pan or crockery dish, and cook slowly upon the top shelf, or 
else cook slowly in a white sauce. 

Imitation Broiling. — Have a broiling pan made containing a grill or perforated 
plate about half an inch from the bottom — such as is furnished with the oven when 
the order is given for a (nil equipment ; put the meat upon this, and if you desire 
to work in the quickest way put the pan directly upon the bottom of the oven ; if 
more slowly, upon the tight shelf. Cut the steak two inches thick if you want to 
have the most satisfactory results. Cook sausages in this way. 

Braising. — Place the nlaterials in a covered vessel ; put on the cover, and put 
the dish as near the top of the oven as possible. 

Simmering. — ^TJse a flat- wick lamp of low power, and take all the time required. 

Vegetables. — Nearly all vegetables, especially roots, require a higher degree of 
heat than meat or grain. Potatoes may be baked on the bottom of the oven, with 
the shelf interposed to keep them from scorching. Squash, cauliflower, onion, and 
cabbage, may be cooked in a satisfactory way, but it takes time, which each one 
must determine by experience. Asparagus, pease and beans may be cooked in the 
dishes in which they are served ; in fact, all the work of the oven can be done in 
crockery or stoneware dishes, but for meats and large poultry it may be better to 
use ordinary baking pans. A separate table and separate lamp are recommended 
for boiling potatoes and for boiling water for service, when the cooking stove is not 
heated for warming the kitchen. 

Soup Stock. — Put the materials in a cheese-pot and simmer all day or all night 
over a flat-wick lamp with wick one inch or one and a quarter to two inches wide. 

Pastry and Cake. — If the tight bottom shelf will not hold all that is desired 
to bake, put a part there and a part above, and change ahout midway in the baking. 
Apple pies require two hours. Lemon pies, which are especially good, bake one 
hour and a half. 



48 THE SGIEKGE OF KUTHITION. 

Oame, — Venison may be treated like any other meat. Dacks, grouse^ and the 
larger birds, may be basted with batter and bread crambs, and roasted slowly and 
uniformly according to taste. Partridge and quail need no basting, but may be 
cooked in bread sauce, smothered in apples, or in any other way, at a moderate slow 
heat. Wild duck, grouse, partridge, and quail, placed in porcelain pots, with a 
white sauce and some French mushrooms added and cooked slowly, may give a new 
sensation even to a gourmand. 

Tough meat and poultry may be rendered very tender, without being dried or 
scorched, by slow simmering for a long time ; when tender, baste and roast for half 
an hour with the full lamp power. 

Brown Bread, Pan Dowdy, and Beans, may be slowly cooked for a long time, 
and will be found to possess the flavors which are familiar only to those who can 
recall these New England dainties as they tasted when baked in the old-fashioned 
brick ovens, before anthracite coal and iron stoves had perverted all the old ways of 
preparing food. 

I beg to add one more recipe for making bread whicji has been given me by a 
baker of very great experience : 

'* In answer to your questions as to the best yeast of domestic make for house- 
hold use, I would say that the Vienna Compressed Yeast is most reliable. 

'' Suppose you try it thus : Take one ounce of yeast ; dissolve in three quarts of 
water, warm as new milk ; mix in flour until as stiff as thick batter ; cover over top 
with sifted flour ; allow it to rise and fall flat once. Then add two quarts of water, 
cool as drawn from a well ; dissolve in it five ounces of salt ; add flour to make 
suitable dough ; allow it to remain only long enough to become fairly light. 
Sponge requires about four hours ; dough requires about two hours. Make up into 
loaves and put into pans, giving them about thirty minutes, more or less, as you see 
they require, before putting them into the oven. 

'^ I think that if this method is followed and close attention given to it for a 
few times, it will be adopted hereafter. Of course, I assume that the yeast used 
shall be fresh.'' 

INSTBUOTIONS OF A GENERAL KIKD. 

Dinner, — Place the sheet of iron that has no holes in it on the bottom of the 
oven so as to keep the dishes from absolutely touching the hot bottom itself ; 
removp the next shelf, leaving the middle and upper shelves in their places. The 
dinner is to consist of four courses : First, soup ; second, fish ; third, roast ; 
fourth, pudding. White or yellow ware dishes, common stoneware, or crockery 
vegetable dishes may be nsed. Two dishes or pans Jhay be put on the lower shelf 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITIOK. 49 

of the oven ; two or three on the middle shelf ; two or four on the npper shelf. 
Oet dishes which fit well under these conditions. 

The following dinner will call for a yellow or white ware dish, about two to 
two and one-half inches deep, for the meat ; an oblong one with round corners is 
best. A tin pan can be used but it is not so easy to keep clean. The soup may 
be re-heated in a vegetable dish not too high to be set in upon the middle or upper 
shelf. Better heat it over another lamp on an iron table. A shallow dish will be 
required for the fish — one-half to two inches deep ; two vegetable dishes for beans 
and pease^ or for squash, tomatoes or onions, either two of which may be chosen. 
Lastly a pudding dish. 

All the articles having been properly prepared, place either a sirloin of beef 
weighing six or seven pounds, a leg of mutton or lamb weighing six or seven pounds^ 
or a pair of chickens of good size, in the meat pan. If chickens are chosen, stuff 
with soaked bread crumbs, seasoned with sweet marjoram, pepper and salt ; baste 
the chickens with a little softened butter, and sprinkle with bread crumbs. If veal, 
is selected, be sure to cook it long enough ; give a little more time to white meat 
than to brown. Put three or four pounds of fish in the shallower dish, score it 
crossway, lay a few strips of pork on the scores, or else omit the pork and use a little 
soft butter and sprinkle with bread crumbs. 

Put the soup made the day before, according to directions given elsewhere, into 
the soup dish, and season it to taste. A little catsup or celery seed in addition to 
the pepper and salt already in it, may suffice. 

Place the potatoes ready to be baked in the tin pan. Put the string beans in 
one dish, pease in another, with a little water, just sufficient to cover them ; add a 
little salt. If squash is selected, put it in a dish without any water. If tomatoes 
are selected, scald them and remove the outer skin ; put them in a dish, add butter^ 
salt and pepper, and sprinkle with cracker crumbs. If onions are chosen, put them 
in a dish with a little milk, salt and pepper. Be sure to give onions a long time. 

Pudding. — Break up some stale bread into a soft mush with milk ; add a little 
salt ; grate in one-half a nutmeg, perhaps a little lemon juice, three or four great 
spoonfuls of sugar, one teacupful of seedless raisins or dried currants — raisins are 
the best ; a little orange marmalade may be added. If you choose, omit the sugar 
and make a cold sauce of sugar, butter and a little spice mashed together. Do not 
be afraid of cooking the onions alongside the pudding. Old onions should be put in 
at the time the meat is put in. Young and tender onions require one and a 
quarter hours. 

Suppose the dinner is to be served at 2.30 p. m. Put the meat or poultry in on 
the lower shelf at 12.30, so that it may cook two hours. Potatoes at same time if 



50 THB SCIBNCB OF NUTBITION. 

large ; if very large^ even earlier. All the rest may go in at 1.15 p. m.; then each 
dish will be taken out at aboat the right time. 

Put the fish on the middle shelf^ the tomatoes on the upper shelf, and cook 
them an hour to an hour and a quarter. The fish will be served first. Put the po- 
tatoes, if small, on the lower shelf, at 1.15 p. m., or much earlier if they are of 
large size ; beans, pease, or squash on the middle or upper shelf at 1.15 p. m.; the 
pudding on the upper shelf at 1.15 p. m.; the soup anywhere to be reheated. 
Better heat it outside over another lamp. If heated in the oven it may be put in 
when the other articles are put in, or later. A little time will be taken up in placing 
the dishes, and they will come out in about the right order, the pudding being left 
in the oven while the rest of the dinner is being served. 

It will be observed that the meat and potatoes take longer than the rest of the 
dinner, therefore they may be prepared first and put in as above. After the meat is 
in the oven, the rest of the dishes can be prepared and put in according to the above 
rules. When everything is in the oven, shut it up, see that your lamp is burning 
brightly and not smoking ; set the dinner table, take off your apron and get ready 
to enjoy your dinner. If you do not want to be bothered, place the oven in the 
dining-room, serve from the oven to the table, and change the plates as may be re- 
quired, placing the dishes and plates on a side-tuble behind a screen until they can 
be removed to the kitchen to be washed. Keep a very little fire in the kitchen 
stove to warm water if you do not use a kerosene stove of the common type for that 
purpose. In washing dishes use warm (not hot) water and a teaspoonful of kerosene 
oil to one pan of water. 

If you want to make fine sauces learn how to make them from the books, in a 
blazer or chafing-dish, on the table. If you do not care to light the stove in summer, 
buy a common kerosene stove-lamp, and an iron table with a hole in it, upon which 
you may heat water, boil potatoes, and do other work of that kind. 

This is the first lesson in plain cooking, and is in fact the only one required. 
In subsequent practice read some of the recipes in cookery books and reject nearly 
all the very complex ones ; then apply common sense to those that you choose to 
try. It is not consistent with good cooking to disguise the fine natural flavors of 
meat, fish and fruit, with strong spices or other condiments ; very strong flavors 
may be useful in order to disguise the poor quality of the food itself. 

One of the great merits of this process of cooking slowly by moderate heat 
which does not distill the juice or dissociate the fats is, that the food when reheated 
or served the second time has no unpleasant flavor or greasy tang to it. In fact 
some kinds of food, such as veal or other white meats, seem to develop more flavor 
in the second process than in the first. It Is a useful practice to cook such material 



THE 8CIBNCB OF NUTRITION. 51 

for a second time in a blazer or chafing-dish^ at the same time adding moderate 
quantities of Nepaul pepper, cayenne pepper, black pepper, tobasco or some other 
kind of sauce, curry powder, caramel, onion juice, bay leaves, sherry wine, etc., in 
order to comprehend the art of giving variety to the customary fare. 

Very Slow Cooking. — Place oatmeal or commeal in porcelain jars, with sufficient 
salt, and somewhat less milk or water than would be commonly used. 

Place meat scraps, bones, carcasses of chicken or turkey, corned beef, or smoked 
ham in earthen pots of sufficient size, with a very moderate amount of water ac- 
cording to what is wanted — ^whether stewed meat or soup. Salt and season accord- 
ing to taste ; place in the oven at nine or ten o'clock p. m. Make use of a common 
lamp with a flat wick one and a quarter to two inches, or a low gas flame. In the 
morning the food will be found thoroughly cooked and the evaporation will have 
been very small. I have prepared twenty-four pounds of fresh meat, flsh, oatmeal 
and cornmeal, with water and milk, in this way, and have found twenty-three and 
one-fourth pounds in the vessels the next morning. Ham, cooked in this way, 
should be afterward baked with a basting of bread crumbs, of may be cooked wholly 
by baking. 

The method adopted in the New England Kitchen for making beef broth, for 
the sick or for the well, is as follows : (Samples may be found at 142 Pleasant 
street, where many useful ideas may be gathered.) A large tin vessel has been pre- 
pared which fills the inside of the oven. Into this twenty pounds of coarse beef 
bones broken up and twenty pounds of neck or shin cut in moderate-sized pieces 
are placed ; to this material is added fifteen quarts of water, sufficient to cover welL 
This is placed in the oven at four o^clock p. m., and the lamp is then lighted. At 
seven o'clock p. m., the lamp is refilled, lighted, and left to burn itself out during 
the night, oi^ in about eight hours. At six a. m., the broth will be found still 
nearly at the boiling point, about 204® F. The soup is then strained and cooled, 
and is ready to be put into jars for sale or seasoned for use. This broth is a nutritious 
and easily-digested food, differing from the ordinary beef tea which is mainly a stimu- 
lant rather than a food. The meat in very tender condition still contains much 
nourishment ; it is chopped and seasoned so as to be eaten after or with the soup. 

Each oven should be heated for about an hour before it is used, and each one 
may require a little experience in order to determine the time to which the various 
kinds of food must be subjected in it. 

I have been asked how this apparatus might be applied in the best way to cook- 
ing or baking on a large scale. In my own judgment a Standard oven of the size 
described in this pamphlet, which can be worked with one lamp of the Bochester 
type and of the size in common use, may be adopted as the unit. 



ADDENDA, FOURTH EDITION. 



Since the first edition of this work was printed some slight improvements have been 
made in the construction of the Aladdin Oven, making it more convenient and certain in 
its use. Many more experiments have been conducted in order to determine whether or 
not it would be safe under certain conditions to make use of wood, which is the cheapest and 
best non-heat conductor available for the construction of substitutes for the somewhat ex- 
pensive Aladdin Oven. Success has been fully attained in these efforts. The following 
diagrams and description will give the latest type of this cooking apparatus. These plans 
are submitted, subject to the caution that while such ovens are not likely to carbonize even 
in a long period under judicious control and can liardly be ignited even by gross careless- 
ness, yet being made of wood they should be used only under such conditions as to be free 
from danger even if the wood should carbonize slowly or ignite. 

All patents taken out in my name on the apparatus have been and are now again 
dedicated to public use free of royalty. 

I retain the names " Aladdin Oven *' and '^ Atkinson Cooker '' as trade-marks limited 
to my own exclusive use and control. This is for convenience and safety in the sale of 
the apparatus when ordered from myself or my assigns. 

(A) A box made of pine or of whitewood, or any otlier wood of close texture least 
liable to warp or shrink. This box may be made of board or plank either one or two 
inches thick. The thicker the less radiation or loss of heat there will be. It should be 
lined with tin and the tin should be carried around the bottom edges and turned up outside, 
so that the wooden surfaces of the edges may not come in direct contact with the metallic 
top of the table on which the oven is to be placed. If the outside of this box is also 
covered with tin or sheet metal of any kind, it will become absolutely safe to make use of 
it night or day, without any other precautions than due care of the lamp by which it is 
heated. But the outer covering of metal will make the box more expensive and is not re- 
quired for day service under supervision. 

(B) A metallic table, or a table with a metal top, on which the box is to be placed 
and to which it may be hinged. Hole in the middle two and one-half inches in diameter. 

(C) Hinge. 

(D) A double tube open at the bottom over the lamp chimney and over the hole in 
the metallic table ; both tubes may be open at the sides by openings to match each other, 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 53 

say half an inch in width by two inches in length on each quarter. The upper tube sup- 
porting a plate may be turned on the lower tube so as to open the way for direct heat to 
pass into the box through the openings for very quick work, or the upper tube may be 
turned upon the lower one so as to close these openings which are marked *^ E." For the 
ordinary processes of cooking they should be closed. 

A handle is shown by which this box may be turned backward or end up. A con- 
venient size would be to make the space indicated by the four letters ^^ a, a, a, a," fourteen 
inches each way. In addition to that space will be the space within the box under the 
slant at the front The object in adding this part under the slant is that the box may 
clear any cooking vessel which ia placed on the tube over the lamp when it is turned upon 
end. Otherwise it is necessary to lift the box, which is an inconvenient method. In this 
space under the slant, vessels may be placed for cooking the materials which require a 
lesser degree of heat The hottest place will be immediately over the lamp on the upper 
tube. The next hottest place will be around the tube " D." The lesser de^ee of heat 
will be in front under the slant I prefer earthern jars and dishes to metal, except for 
roasting pans, broiling or saut^ing. 

A second diagram of the oven is given in perspective upon a table wide enough on 
every side to hold the fragments of the wooden box, in the remote contingency that through 
carelessness it should be ignited by an excess of heat. The ordinary heat required for 
cooking appears to have no effect in scorching the wood. The heat may shrink even the 
best-seasoned wood, so that after a few weeks' use it will become expedient to drive a strip 
into the cracks which may have opened at the joints. The oven might also possibly be 
scorched and even ignited if the lamp were placed under the hole in the table without thi^ 
tube or any other obstruction between it and the top of the box. 

For the reason that this cooking apparatus is made of wood* which may in a very 
long period be carbonized or may possibly be ignited by careless use, I do not recommend 
it for night work unless it is placed upon a table on which the fragments may bum with- 
out risk ; or unless the table b placed upon a brick or concrete floor where fragments of 
the cooking-box might bum without hazard. There is no other non-heat-conducting ma- 
terial so effective and so cheap as the compact kinds of wood, like whitewood or pine, and 
with common prudence they may be safely used. 

Anybody can cook with this apparatus. Nobody can cook properly on an iron stove 
or range without wasting heat, time, temper and even skill ; it takes long practice to over- 
come the faults of the iron stove and of the fuel used in it, and then the results are often 
bad. The chief fault in cooking is cooking quickly at a high and varying temperature. 
One of the principal causes of indigestion is the chemical change which is wrought 
by a high heat upon the fats of meat Dr. Pavey, one of the earliest investigators, 
uses the following language in his *' Treatise on Food and Dietetics ** : '^ Fat under a pro- 




THE LATEST TYPE OF THE ATKINSON OOOKER. 

SBOTION. 



NOT PATENTED. 




THE LATEST TYPE OF THE ATKINSON COOKER. 

IN PBBSPBOTIVB. 



NOT PATENTED. 



56 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

longed exposure to a strong heat undergoes decomposition attended with a production of 
fatty acids and an acrid volatile product known as acroline, which may cause derangement 
of a weak stomach." 

This evU can be avoided by my methods of cooking. I have on record many instances 
of the cure of dyspepsia and indigestion by the substitution of food cooked slowly at a 
moderate heat by the methods which I have promoted, proving conclusively what Dr. 
Pavey says. I have also two records of very puny children who needed meat and would 
not eat it when cooked in a cooking stove. Since my oven was adopted they have become 
stout and strong. I have become satisfied that about half the prevalent dyspepsia is due 
to semi-starvation because the victims cannot digest badly-cooked food. I am well satis- 
fied that if any shrewd saloon-keeper who. wantd to make more money will make 
strong beef soup from the heads, palates and well-cleaned hoofs of beef cattle, or 
lentil broth from lentils, it will cost him less than his whiskey and beer now cost ; and if 
put on tap alongside either, each will sell freely in place of the liquor or in addition, 
because more than half the craving for stimulants is due to want of well-cooked food. 
Who will try this ? The " saloon " will have a better reputation if this suggestion should 
I)rove to be profitable in practice. 

I have lately made these ovens of glass for purposes of observation. The dimensions 
are, plan, 14 inches by 10 inches, section, 10 inches by 10 inches. One is of eighth-inch 
single glass, one of quarter-inch plate-glass. There does not seem to be much difference be- 
tween them. The glass is set in channels in a tin frame, packed in asbestos-paper, to keep 
the joints tight and the glass free to expand and contract. The heat can be raised to 
over 300® F. with a duplex Trench burner, l^inch wicks. The third oven is of eighth- 
inch glass, double glazed, with half-inch air-space. In this oven I have raised the heat 
400** F. 

The ovens rest upon metallic tables, with two and-a-half-inch hole in centre, the top 
of the lamp-chimney being placed very close to the level of the metal. With care there is 
little danger of cracking the glass. I have cracked one top plate by attempting to bum 
loose cotton in the oven, in which, after it has been heated some time, there is not enough 
oxygen to maintain combustion. I cracked the glass by want of care in supplying more 
air. I think such ovens may be very useful in scientific work on the effect of heat upon 
different kinds of food. 

January, 1895. 



GLASS OVENS. 



This page has been left until the date of going to press in order to add the latest facts. 
The use of glass ovens simply confirmed all my previous observations. Their use also en- 
abled me to lay out the work for the establishment of a science of glazing factory and 
workshop windows, which perhaps may be extended to the glazing of school-houses, hospi- 
tals and art-galleries. Having induced the adoption of ribbed glass of twenty-one ribs to 
the inch in several textile factories, by which the light is diffused without heavy shadows, 
it soon appeared that there was a great difference in the transmission of heat. It has 
therefore become necessary for me to enter upon a thorough investigation of the properties 
of glass in respect to the diffusion of light and the transmission of heat, in order to deter- 
mine the form of the ribs or corrugations, the shade or color, and all other facts in the 
case. 

In the matter of ovens, I have given up the cylinder and pail ovens in the expectation 
that, as soon as the manufacture of Standard Aladdin Ovens has been established on a 
commercial basis by the Asbestos Paper Co., we may use their very light material for 
making small portable ovens in square forms, which will serve a better purpose than cylin- 
drical forms, even for workmen to carry to their work. 

It is still necessary to heat water for circulation throughout a house from the water- 
back of the stove or range, or by a heater connected with the customary copper boiler. I 
have jacketed this copper boiler in my own kitchen with the asbestos air-cells lagging sup- 
plied by the Asbestos Paper Co., Boston. This has reduced the amount of fuel, greatly 
increased tlie efficiency of the boiler and wholly prevented the radiation of heat, to the 
comfort of the inmates in summer weather. 

Junk, 1895. 



THE ALADDIN OVEN. 

HOW IT DOES IT. 

Since my first general instructions were given, I have been asked many times 
" When my cookery book would be published?" 

Even now I can only give the results of obserration and of partial study with 
the recipes which have been prepared at my own suggestion, coupled with others 
that have been sent me. 

Since the first edition of these instructions was issued, much experience has 
been gained and the work which can be done in the Aladdin Oven has been very 
much extended. I have made arrangements to heat the kitchen in my winter house 
mainly from the furnace. Since it is no longer necessary to get up a fire in the 
early morning, my cook finds that the breakfast can be prepared more quickly and 
with less work in the Aladdin Oven than upon the range. Even if the range or 
stove must be lighted for other purposes, the Aladdin Oven is ready for the work 
before the oven in the range is in suitable condition for cooking. Moreover, since 
it is no longer necessary to force the range, a great waste of fuel is saved, espe- 
cially if a little coke is used either by itself or in starting the hard coal fire. 

I can hardly doubt, however, on the basis of my own experience and that of 
many others, that the use of the iron stove or range will almost wholly give place 
to the oven. There is no question that the fine fiavors of meat, fruit, grain and 
vegetables are developed by the application of heat at the right temperature. These 
flavors are very ^subtle and very volatile and are doubtless due to chemical changes. 
A high heat dissipates these fine fiavors about as fast as they are formed, especially 
when the cooking is done in open vessels, while a moderate heat which only evap- 
orates some of the water in the material develops the fiavor without sending it off 
in vapor, especially when the work is done in closed vessels. A high heat converts 
fat into a fatty acid which is noxious — a low heat prepares the fat for ready assimi- 
lation in the process of nutrition in due proportion. 

True food is not prepared by merely making a cook's mixture commonly 
called a recipe — it is a fine process of the chemical conversion of crude food material 
under the controlled and regulated application of heat. 

In preparation for breakfast, prepare 

CoFFBB, Southern Method. — Grind the roasted coffee very fine ; put it into a pitcher at 
night, pour oold water upon it equal to the quantity of coffee expected to be made ; let it 



THE 8CIBNCB 07 NTJTSITION. 59 

steep all night. In the morning strain it, and, if desired, clear it with the white of an egg ; 
then heat to the desirable point for serving. It can be heated in the oven, or over another 
lamp, or on the stove. 

Having lighted the lamp at once on coming down in the morning, so as to heat 
the bottom of the oven while the food is being prepared, a process corresponding 
to the work of frying in a spider by the use of a little fat or batter, without the 
complete immersion of the food in the hot fat, may be applied to a great many 
kinds of food. The method is as follows, scientifically called 

Sauteino. — Place a tin or metal dish immediately apon the actual bottom of the oven, 
directly over the lamp. Put a little butter or lard into it. HaviDg some cold mush made of 
oornmeal or of oatmeal already very thoroughly cooked, cut in thin slices, put them into 
the pan, leave until brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other side ; serve very 
hot. Pan fish may be cooked in the same way. Try almost anything in this way. Orisp 
soda biscuit may be salted and cooked in butter in this way; they make a delicious side dish. 

Gems. — Mix Graham, rye, or whole wheat flour with water and salt into a thick batter, 
using neither yeast nor baking powder. Having placed a metal biscuit pan in the oven so 
that it is already well heated, put in a little butter, merely enough to keep the gems from 
adhering to the metal ; bake quickly on the bottom of the oven. 

The term ''whole " or "entire wheat " has been misapplied to the flour which 
is called by that name. This flour is made from grains of wheat from which the 
outer cuticle has been removed. Graham flour is made from the whole grain, 
including the outer covering. Preference is given by many persons.to the Graham 
flour. Care should be taken to secure a special brand of Graham flour made from 
sound wheat, as the common grades bear the ill repute of being a compound of the 
rubbish of the flour mill with the poor wheat. These common grades may, there- 
fore, contain more bran than anything else. 

(See Appendix — Letter from Mr. Louis H. Hyde.) 

I will first give a few of our own recipes, mainly for dishes suitable for 
breakfast. 

BROILED CmCKENS OR BIRDS. 

Place in a tin pan slices of cold toasted bread, place upon them a little butter, put over 
the toast a drainer, that is, a wire frame or a tin plate pierced like a colander, half to three 
quarters of an inch high. Upon this drainer place the chicken quartered or the birds split 
for broiling. Very thin slices of pork may be laid over them, or else smear with a little soft 
butter and sprinkle with bread crumbs. 

BEEF STEAK AND MUTTON CHOPS. 

Place the drainer, the one made of wire being the best, in a tin pan. Put a little butter 
into the pan, place the meat upon the frame, thick slices preferred ; cook according to the 
thickness of the meat. 



60 THB SCIEKGE OF KUTBrnON. 

SAUSAQKS. 

Proceed in the same way, omitting the batter. Put the lard oil which is drained ont of 
the sausages into the grease pot, then eat the sausages. 

FISEL 

Proceed in the same manner, adding pepper and salt according to taste. Pat a little 
batter apon the fish and sprinkle with bread crnmbs, or cat the fish cross- way and lay in thin 
strips of salt pork, then sprinkle with bread crambs. 

HAH OB BACON AND EGGS. 

Cover the wire or tin drainer all over with thin slices of ham or bacon, place in the oven 
and cook fifteen to twenty minates, the oven having been already heated. Then break the 
eggs apon the meat, retarn to the oven and cook five to ten minates according to taste. 

When very quick work is necessary, all the dishes above named may be put 
directly upon the bottom of the oven over the lamp. They must however be 
watched, as it is possible to scorch food which is cooked under these conditions 
without the intervening shelf that keeps the bottom of the pans from the direct 
contact with the bottom of the oven. 

When very quick work is not required^ leave the close iron shelf which has no 
holes in it upon the bottom of the oven^ and place all the dishes upon that, ;except 
the imitation fry. Saut^ing and grilling must be done on the actual bottom of the 
oven. Slow work is the safest. The longer meats are subjected to a moderate heat 
without burning or drying up the juices, the more tender and digestible they will 
become. 

BISCUITS. 

Biscuits made of any kind of meal may be baked in biscuit pans upon the shelf next above 
the bottom of the oven. They may be baked while meats and fish are being cooked below. 
Heat the biscuit pans first. 

GBIDDLE CAKES. 

Take out the close iron shelf, place the griddle in the oven on the bottom as soon as the 
lamp is lighted, so as to heat it with the oven ; put the lamp, well trimmed at full power and 
proceed in the usaal manner to cook griddle cakes, pan-cakes or flap- jacks. 

MUSH OB POBBIDGE. 

Made of cornmeal, oatmeal, cracked wheat or hominy; place either in porcelain vessels ; 
add salt, moisten safficiently, but not quite as much as if the work were to be done on the 
top of the stove where the water would greatly evaporate; cover the pot and pat it into the 
oven for many hours ; all night if you please. 

This slow cooking at moderate heat will not injure but will develop the line 
flavor of the grain. This mush or porridge may be eaten in the usual way or 
may be allowed to become cold; then cut in thin slices and cook in the pan in 
imitation of frying, according to the instructions previously given. 



THE BCIBNOB OF NUTBITIOK. 61 

BOASTKD WHEAT CAKES. 

If grains of wheat are roasted as coffee berries are roasted, they can be gronnd in 
a French coffee mill which should not be nsed for any other purpose. This brown flour can 
then be made into biscuits or into griddle cakes that possess a peculiar flavor which many 
people like. It must be very digestible. Coffee berries or wheat grains may be roasted in 
the Aladdin Oven. It takes a long time, but requires very little attention. 

It therefore appears that almost all the customary breakfast dishes^ except those 
which require frying by immersion in hot fat, can be prepared in the Aladdin Oven. 
The ovens stop short at the doughnut stage. 

PAN-CAKES. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, a little salt, two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour. Beat the 
eggs and stir the milk and flour together. Heat the pan on the bottom of the oven ten 
minutes ; then butter the pan, pour the pan-cakes in, cook for twenty minutes, turning once 
midway. 

OMELET. 

Heat a tin pan upon the actual bottom of the oven, put a small piece of butter therein ; 
beat up the eggs and stir into the pan, place it upon the bottom of the oven for about four 
minutes, closing the door ; then turn over and serve at once. 

The next directions apply to the preparation of the more substantial dishes. 

BOASTING. 

Give more time than in the common oven and do not be tempted to try to roast quickly. 

BBOWNINO MEAT AND POULTET. 

Some complaints have becB made and exceptions have been taken for the lack of an 
SBsthetic appearance in the roasts. Bread crumbs and butter are turned brown by heat at a 
much lower degree than the fats of the meat itself. Therefore smear the joint or sirloin 
with soft sweet butter ; sprinkle with bread crambs when the dish is put into the oven. This 
will give an aesthetic appearance that will be wholly satisfactory. 

BBOWNINO HALIBUT AND CUSK A LA CBEME. 

Having prepared the flsh in the usual way, well seasoned, with sauce, wholly omitting 
the customary boiling by which the flue flavor of the flsh is commonly destroyed, cook the 
fish a sufficient time according to the quantity ; about half an hour before serving beat the 
white of an egg into a froth and spread it over the fish. The result will please the critical 
eye and it will not hurt the fish. 

TOASTING BBEAD. 

Take out the lower shelf, place a wire grid directly upon the bottom of the oven ; then 
lay the slices of bread theropn. 

BAKED BEANS, BBOWN BREAD, INDIAN PUDDING. 

Many of the younger generation never really tasted either of these pre-historic 
dishes. The following recipes are therefore given: 



62 THB 8CIBKCE OF IHJTBITION. 

BAKED BKANB. 

Soak one quart of beans in water all night ; turn off that water if you don't want too 
much of the bean flavor and add fresh water. If you are a true bean eater, do not turn off 
the water, but put the pot in a heated oven and leave it there one hour ; then draw off the 
loose water. Place half a pound of salt pork on the top ; add a teaspoonful of salt ; put 
back into the oven and cook the beans all day and all night if you want to. Add a little 
molasses if you want a little sweetening. Beans can hardly be overcooked. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of Indian, that is, maize meal ; two cups of rye meal ; one and one-half tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. One-half teaspoonfal of salt ; one small cup of molasses 
(treacle). A little over a pint of skim-milk. When baked in the Aladdin Oven, the dish 
should be put on the shelf next above the bottom of the oven, where it should bake three 
hours with the lamp at its full capacity. 

INDIAN PUDDINQ. 

Two quarts of milk ; one-half cup of molasses, one cup of Indian meal. One-half tea- 
spoonful of salt ; piece of butter. Bake in the Aladdin Oven four hours on the top shelf 
with the lamp low, in rather a flat dish. 

NoTB.— Commeal, '^ooantry ground." so-called, that is, oommeal which has been ground by slow processes, 

and which has not been subjected to drying in kilns, is much better and possesses a much higher flavor than the 

common cornmeal, such as we find in the shops. I attribute this difference to the fact that the meal has not been 

heated ; therefore its fine flavor has not been driven away. Meal of this description, both of the Rhode Island 

* white variety and the common yellow meal can be purchased of Messrs. John B. Chaoe A Son, 42 South Main 

street, Providence, K. L 

FISH AND CLAMS, SEASIDE FASHION. 

Take out the shelves from the oven ; make use of a tin box of sufficient size and depth ; 
in the bottom put some wet rock-weed or sea-weed ; put in the clams ; add another layer of 
rock- weed ; put in the fish ; cover with rock- weed ; put the cover on the liox, if you have a 
cover ; put into the oven and subject to heat for a sufficient time. This method corresponds 
to a clam-bake. 

SAM WELLEB HASH. 

Chop into pieces of a rather large size, one pound of ham and two pounds of veal ; add 
cold water and seasoning ; and, if you like it, tbiciien with a little bread-crumb or flour ; 
simmer slowly a very long time. After being sufficiently simmered, this compound may be 
put into a baking-pan, covered with a light crust, and converted into a '* weal and ham '* pie. 

FISH CHOWDEB. 

This dish can be made in perfection in the following way : Out the pork in thin slices, 
place in the dish which is fitted with a drainer, put this upon the bottom of the oven, try 
out the fat, and then make use of pork in the usual way in making the chowder, combined 
with fish, milk, potatoes, crackers, onions, etc., according to the customary method. Simmer 
slowly with moderate heat. 

It will be observed with respect to chowder and many other kinds of food which 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 63 

when cooked at a high heat are not appetizing if heated over again, that when 
cooked at a moderate degree of heat they may be warmed over the next day and 
will prove to be quite as appetizing, and in some cases more so than when first 
prepared. 

SALT FISH. 

Any one fond of this dish may prepare it in the best way by moderate cooking in a dish 
with a little water added, preparing the pork scraps in the same way that is directed for try- 
ing out the fat of the pork for making chowder. Cook the beets thoroughly. 

COOKING WHOLE HAMS. 

 

Soak the ham first. Use a lamp of moderate power ; put the ham in a cheese-pot, add 
half a bottle of cider or red wine; fill up the interstices with sweet meadow hay ; very little 
water to be used ; put on the cover and cook very slowly for a long time according to the size 
of the ham. Remove from the pot, take off the skin, baste with bread crumbs ; do not use 
cloves unless you like them ; place a high-power lamp under the oven and roast on the lower 
shelf half an hour. 

CHEESE. 

Reference may be made to the chapter in Dr. Mattieu Williams* Ohemistry of Cookery on 
the nutritive value of cheese provided it is thoroughly cooked. An excellent pudding may 
be made in the following way : Two parts stale bread ; two parts skim milk ; one part skim- 
milk cheese broken up into fragments ; season as for a Welsh rarebit ; add a very little 
bi-carbonate of soda, according to the instructions given in Dr. Williams* book. Cook for a 
long time at a moderate heat. To those who are fond of cheese this dish will prove' to be 
appetizing and digestible. The proper cooking of cheese converts it from an indigestible 
substance into a very nutritious one. 

Persons who have preferred very rare meat or game may find the flavors more 
fully developed if the process of cooking is continued so that the color is more 
brown than that of the rare part of the joint cooked in the ordinary method, while 
at the same time the outside will not be dried or scorched. 

A NEW METHOD OF PREPARING ** HOG AND HOMINY." 

It is well known that the favorite dish of the Southern black man is '* hog and hominy." 
The combination appears to be readily digested. It is said that bacon and wheat meal may 
not be easily digested, or beef and coinmeal. The ** hog and bomlny " is a very strong food. 
There is probably no body of workmen sabsisted at so low a cost, regard being given to the 
force generated in the food, as the black men who work on a ration of bacon and corn meal. 
The customary allowance in the South is, I believe, three and one-half pounds of baeon and 
one peck of com meal for each week's supply. A very delicious compound may be made by 
placing in a pot one cupful of meal previously moistened with water sufficient to swell- it 
without softening it too much. Upon the top lay a few sausages ; put in the oven and 
cook at a low heat for five hours. Bacon may be cooked in the same way, but the meal 
requires more water. This is one of the dishes that I propose to put into the workman*s 



64 THB 8CIBNCB OF KUTBITION. 

pail, with a Tiew to the lamp being lighted when the work begins ; the dinner to be readj 
five hours later at noon. 

SALT CODFISH AND CREAM. 

Break the fish into slivers ; put it into a porcelain or earthem pot with cream, if you have 
it— or with milk or a little butter added ; cover the vessel and cook at a moderate heat for 
one hour or more ; the longer the more tender. 

PASTRY. 

Pies may be baked in the most perfect manner in the Aladdin Oven. The use of tin 
rings with separate circular plates pierced with many small holes for the bottom, is recom- 
mended in place of the common tin plates. The bottom crust will then be as absolutely and 
as thoroughly baked as the top crust. * ^ Pale pie^'*^ may thus be banished from the customary 
bill of fare. 

By permission of Mr. James F. Case, I give a recipe for what is named 

** case's health bread." 

For five loaves of one and one-half pounds each, two pints of oatmeal gruel pre- 
viously cookod very thoroughly; three and one-half pounds of ** whole or entire wheat 
flour'*; one-half pint of milk; one tablespoonful of sugar or two teaspoonfuls of New 
Orleans molasses ; one teaspoon ful of salt ; one cake of fresh Fleischmaun's Yeast. Use the 
oatmeal gruel and milk for wetting the flour. Enead thoroughly. Keep in the bread-raiser 
until the batch has about doubled itself in bulk ; then form into loaves ; put back into the 
bread-raiser for thirty to forty minutes. Then bake in the Aladdin Oven, previously heated, 
for about one hour and a half. 

In my own household and office practice we have made use of even a larger 
portion of oatmeal^ and have also mixed Graham flour with it in place of the whole 
wheat flour. A very delicious kind of bread may also be made in the Case Bread- 
Eaiser and the Aladdin Oven almost wholly of rye meal ; only enough wheat flour 
being dusted upon the hands, if people will persist in kneading bread by hand, or 
upon the spoon, to overcome the stickiness of the rye. Even hand kneading with 
a spoon may be displaced by a very simple mechanical spoon or Bread-Kneader sold 
by Edwin Prescott, 21 Hamilton street, Boston, 

Any one who never cooked anything before may begin in the following way : 
first, by making some bread, which is commonly considered a great mystery but is 
really a very simple matter. Let it be assumed that the oven has been brought into 
a seasoned condition by bemg heated a few hours each day for a week. 

A beginner may well learn how to make bread as a first lesson, I therefore give 
the following definite instructions : 

BREAD. 

Mix in a bowl one quart of flour, either white, whole wheat or rye meal, with a little less 
than a pint of water at blood heat— 90^ F. Add one-half a (level) teaspoonf ul of salt ; mix one- 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 65 

third of a cake of Fleischmann's compressed yeast in one-half teacnpful of warm water ; be 
sure that the yeast is fresh. Add this dissolved yeast to the flour and salt ; stir with a spoon 
into homogenous dough. The whole object of kneading with the hand, the spoon or the 
mechanical kneader is to diffuse the yeast evenly in the dough. I have found it a very simple 
matter— easily mastered after one or two trials. Butter the bread pans and put in the 
dough to rise. If you have a Case Bread-Raiser, use it for the raising of the bread accord- 
iug to the instructions given with it, for about three hours. 

Time the work so that the pans may be transferred to the oven when it is well heated, 
perhaps after the dinner has been removed from' it. Then bake two hours ; a little less or 
a good deal more, according to the taste. If you have no bread-raiser place a pan of warm 
water on the lower shelf of the oven ; place the dough in the bread pans on the middle and 
upper shelves. Light the lamp, and keep the flame as low as possible, yet burning. Close 
the oven, and in about three hours the dough will be raised. The important point is to 
keep the dough in a hnmid atmosphere at 90^ F. for a certain time — about three hours. 
Open the oven, quickly remove the pan of water, place the bread pan upon shelf which rests 
upon the bottom of the oven, turn the lamp up to its full height, and bake about three 
hours. It may be safer to knead the bread in the usual way. Ask the cook how to do it ; 
then raise it and bake it according to the foregoing rules. 

By the kindness of Sir Henry Thompson, M. D., I may add two recipes which 
he prepared for London bakers many years ago, for bread which he recommends in 
his little work on " Food and Feeding 



9> 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING WHOLE- MEAL BREAD. (IN FLAT CAKES.) 

With Baking Powder. — ^Take two pounds of coarsely-ground whole wheat meal, and 
half a pound of flne floar, or, better still, the same weight of fine Scotch oatmeal. Mix 
thoroughly with a sufficient quantity of bakiug powder and a little salt ; then rub in two 
ounces of butter and make into dough — using a wooden spoon — with cold skimmed milk or 
milk and water, soft in consistence, so that it can almost be poured into the tin ring, which 
gives it form when baked. In this manner it is to be quickly made into flat cakes (like tea 
cakes), and baked on a tin, the rings used being about an inch high and seven or eight inches 
in diameter, each inclosing a cake. Put them without delay into a quick oven at the outset, 
letting them be finished thoroughly, at a lower temperature. 

With Yeast.— When good German or other yeast can be obtained, add the necessary 
quantity to the dough, made as above directed with the two meals, butter, salt, and warm milk 
and water ; make the cakes and put them on the tin with their rings, and set near the fire to 
rise, which they will do in an hour or little under. Then bake in a medium oven in the same 
way as for any other fermented bread. When yeast is used and not baking powder, a 
medium coarse oatmeal may be added to the wheat meal. 

The object of making this bread in flat cakes or in scones, is to insure a light 
and well-cooked product. It is difficult to insure these two qualities in the form of 



«6 THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITION. 

loaves except of the smallest size. A larger proportion of oatmeal, if preferred, 
can be adopted by either method. H. T. 

Sir Henry Thompson adds in his note to myself the following : 

'* One reason for using oatmeal also, is, that not only is a more nutritious combination 
made, but a less soft and spongy mass when baked, i. e., in the interior of the bread ; but 
the mixture is much better when cooked in flat cakes one and one- fourth inches to one and 
one-half inches thick ; about seven or eight inches in diameter. The flavor, too, is excellent. 
On my own table I use one-third oat and two-thirds wheat meal." 

PORK CHOPS SMOTHERED IN APPLES. 

Place sliced apples in a dish ; lay the chops upon them ; sprinkle with a little salt ; cover 
again with sliced apple ; put a cover upon the dish, and cook thoroughly, more or less time 
. according to the quantity. 

Chicken, quail and some other kinds of meat, mainly white meat, may be 
cooked in the same way with very appetizing results. 

CHICKEN, QUAIL AND PARTRmGE, FRENCH MUSHROOM OR CELERY SAUCE. 

Out up the chickens, halve the partridges, cook the quail whole. Place in dishes which 
may be covered ; make a white sauce of bread crumbs ; season it to taste, but mainly d^ 
pending for flavor either upon French mushrooms and the liquor which comes with them, or 
upon the root or hock of celery previously simmered so long that it can be reduced to a pur^e; 
make a sufficient quantity of sauce, to fairly fill the dish when the birds are put in, and sim- 
mer slowly with the cover on, for such a length of time as may correspond to the quantity. 

MINCED GANDER ON TOAST. 

Order the toughest old gander that can be found in the market ; prepare him in the 
usual way ; stuff with onion stuffing, or if preferred, in European fashion with prunes and 
chestnuts. Place in a large vessel with a moderate amount of water, the vessel being covered ; 
place in the oven ; light the lamp at about half power, and simmer slowly all night ; test with 
a fork in the morning, and if not tender, add a little more water if more is needed, and, 
simmer all day. In about eighteen hours the work will be done. The meat will then be so 
tender that it cannot be carved ; mince and serve on toast with plenty of gravy, of whieh 
there will be an abundance. 

FOWLS. 

Select a pan about an inch and a half deep that will hold two or three fowls. Put the 
fowls in the pan, stuffing them if you like. Lay thin slices of pork over the fowls. Fill the 
pan up to the lip with water. Put in the middle of the oven and simmer four or Ave hours 
according to the age and size of the fowls. 

The fowls may then be removed from the first pan ; may be 1}asted with bread crumbs 
and butter, and served as a roast ; or may be served as boiled fowl, to which they are far 
superior, with a butter and egg sauce. The water in the pan should be saved, allowed to 
cool ; remove the grease, aikd use it the next day with the carcasses to make broth or soup. 



THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 67 

MACARONI. 

Macaroni may be cooked without being previously boiled, with any kind of sauce that 
may be preferred. The dish which is very popular with my own friends, consists of mac- 
aroni moistened with liquor from the can of French mushrooms, the mushrooms being also 
cooked with the macaroni ; no cheese. For appearance add a little butter and bread crumbs, 
sprinkled over the top. 

DUCK AND GROUSE. 

When a distinguished purveyor was asked what to do with the carcass of the duck after 
the breast bad been removed, he replied, *' Better give it to the poor." This is not wholly 
true. The leg of the duck when tender is very good, but there may be a better use for the 
legs and wings either of duck or grouse, which are apt to be wasted when cooked on the bird. 

Remove them before cooking, place them in a pan with a little water and seasoning. 
Simmer them a long time until all the flesh can be taken from the bone, then the lean part 
may be forced through a colander, or else mince very fine and use with the giblets in a gravy 
or sauce. Roast the rest of the duck, more or less according to taste, in the usual manner 
The abundance of sauce made in this way will be appreciated. 

A Washington method is to cook coarse hominy and place it with the duck so as to absorb 
the juices. Hominy should first be cooked separately ; it would probably be better to simmer 
it very slowly and for a long time ; then use it Cooking hominy is claimed to be a fine art, 
but it is done in perfection in the Aladdin Oven. 

WASHINGTON DUCK. (WITH ADDENDA.) 

Place in a granite-ware or crockery dish, heating it first in the oven, a layer of very 
coarse hominy, rice or macaroni, with as little water as will serve to soften it in the process 
of cooking ; place upon the bottom shelf and cook until it is about half done. 

Make a thin batter by beating a little butter, bread crumb and egg together ; split 
chicken, grouse or partridge as if for broiling (legs and wings may be left on or may be re- 
moved to be simmered separately), small birds whole— roll in the batter, add a little butter 
and salt to the hominy, rice or macaroni, place the birds thereon ; return to the oven on one 
of the middle or upper shelves and leave until done. 

For variation, add to the hominy, rice or macaroni, a few fresh mushrooms, or canned 
mushrooms and liquor — with chicken add some curry — with duck a suspicion of cayenne and 
onion — a little jelly sauce — or chop some celery and cook it from the start with the other 
base. With chicken a couple of sausages may be added. 

The gravy and fat will be absorbed either on the hominy, rice or macaroni, and the dish 
will be most appetizing. 

Another way is to put the hominy, rice or macaroni and the bird into a dish which has a 
close cover, cook thoroughly before removing the cover ; then beat up a little bread crumb 
and butter with the white of an egg, spread this over the surface, remove the cover and put 
the dish upon the upper shelf where it will be well browned. If the birds are preferred rare, 
keep them out until half or three-quarters of an hour before serving. Use gumption. 

If the legs and wings with the giblets are to be simmered, start cold so as to draw all the 



68 THE SCIENCE OF NUTKITIOK. 

juices, in order to make gravy— the meat may be very finely-chopped and added — or if sim 
mered long enough, converted into pulp or purde. 

CRISPY CAKS. 

Most of the labor which is expended in rolling thin gingerbread and other kinds 
of cake, is wasted. The common idea that the crisp quality of thin cake depends 
upon a very hot oven, is a blunder. The proper method for cooking thin and crisp 
kinds of cake is as follows : 

Use either a large tin baking pan wrong side up ; or, what is better, a sheet of Russia 
iron which it is better to have prepared with the edges turned over all around so that it may 
not spring in service. Spread what may be called the dough or mixture that is to be cooked, 
very thin, smoothing and spreading it with a knife without previously rolliDg It. Leave the 
tight shelf upon the bottom of the oven, and place the pan wrong side up on the sheet with 
the cake spread upon the bottom, on this lower shelf. Bake, as a rule, about forty- five 
minutes. But every om^ will want some more. Enough of such cake is always a little more. 
The area of the bottom shelf of the oven is limited. I have had some large sheets of iron 
prepared ; four to lay flat directly upon each shelf ; four others with the edges turned down 
about an inch and a half, so that I can get eight sheets into the oven. These may be put in, 
and the bake may begin while they are all in the original positions, one above another, but 
they must be changed in succession so as to get each sheet upon the bottom for a little while, 
if it is thought expedient to give all a uniform brown color. If the whole number of sheets 
is made use of, the product will be about twelve square feet, which may possibly be enough, 
although a little more will soon be called for. 

The recipes are as follows : 

THIN SUGAR 6IN6ERBRIAD. 

One cup of flour, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
one egg, three tablespoonf nls of milk. Beat the eggs and milk together ; add the other in- 
gredients. This is the unit for a small quantity. 

THIN MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of flour, half a cup of butter, half a cup of sugar, half a cup t>f molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, one egg. Beat the eggs and milk together and proceed as in the pre- 
vious recipe. 

BROWN PUDDING. 

One cup of flour, one-half cup raisins, a little nutmeg, a little cinnamon, a little all- 
spice, one teaspoonful baking powder, one teaspoonful butter, three tablespoonfuls molasses, 
a little salt. Bake four hours. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One quart skimmed milk, one egg, butter the size of an egg, flour sufScient to make a 
smooth dough, one-half cake of yeast. Raise five hours. Bake three-quarters of an hour 
at full heat of oven. 



THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 69 

OMELET. 

Three eggs, one-half cup of milk, two teaspoonf als of cracker crumbs, a little salt, small 
piece of butter. Beat the whites to a froth, and beat the yolks up with a fork. Heat a pan 
in tn a oven and then butter it. Put the csielet in the pan and cover it. Cook fifteen minutes. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Cut the veal in round pieces, dip them into fine bread crumbs and sauter them a light 
brown in a little pork. Then put them into a saucepan with a piece of raw veal at the 
bottom, one-half pint of water, the rind of one lemon, half a carrot, one half a turnip, one- 
half an onion cut very fine. A teaspoonful of walnut catsup, a little salt, a shake of cayenne 
and one teaspoonful of capers. Simmer slowly three and one-half hours or more. When 
dished chop the yolk of a hard-boiled egg very fine, and sprinkle over with capers. Strain 
the gravy and pour over. 

In the Aladdin oven in order to "sauter" remove the lower tight shelf, place a 
metal pan on the bottom; lay in the pork and veal, add a little lard, butter or olive 
oil; when browned on one side turn over. A little practice will fix the time. When 
first practicing, the oven doors may be kept open. This process when done in a 
spider on a stove is commonly called frying and is, when done at a high heat, as bad 
a method as could be devised. When well done at a suitable heat the product is 
most appetizing. 

In this connection I will again point out that in very many recipes which are 
to be found in the cookery books, directions are given, first to fry some onions or 
something else to a light-brown, and then to go on using this material in combina- 
tion with others in the final process of cooking. 

In many cases the writers do not mean frying by immersion in very hot fat, but 
what they really mean is saut^ing or frying in a spider, in a thin film of fat, olive 
oil or butter. Therefore, if any one wishes to try such recipes taken from the 
books, proceed in the manner laid down above. 

Cook onions, meat, apples, sippets of toast for soup, etc., etc., in a pan on the 
bottom of the oven with a little fat of any suitable kind — butter, oil, beef dripping; 
and if you must you may use lard. I wouldn't. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

One cup of fiour, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, two eggs, a little mace. 
Beat together and spread as before directed for thin cake. 

BOX PUDDINGS. 

Slow cooking in vessels which are fitted rather closely with covers so as not to 
permit evaporation, yields the finest flavor, especially in respect to fruit. A recipe 
which proved to be very delicious when cooked in the Workman's Pail in one box, 
was made in the following proportions: 



70 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

Half a pint of milk, two tablespoonfnls of sugar, one egg, a little pineapple syrup 
flavoring, two apples pared with the core taken out. Other flavors may be used if preferred. 

Hardly any combination of fruit, marmalade, jam with other ingredients 
cooked in this way ever fails to yield very delicious results. 

^ ANOTHER BOX FUDDINO. 

Half a cup of crumbs of stale bread, one cup of milk, two spoonfuls of sugar, half a 
cup of stoneless raisins, one egg, pineapple or lemon flavoring. Cook three or four hours in 
a pail in tight boxes. Serve with or without cold sauce. 

BREAD AND RAISIN CAKE. 

Mix in a bowl one quart of white flour with a little less than one pint of water ; one- 
half level spoonful of salt ; one-half teacupful of sugar or more according to taste ; one-half 
teacupf ul of butter softened a little by heat so that it will mix well, but not melted ; grate in 
half a nutmeg, or add a little cinnamon or allspice ; add a full teacupful of stoneless raisins 
or of dried currants, or of chopped dried apples. Mix one-third of a cake of Fleischmann's 
yeast with warm water, add that, stir the whole thoroughly together into a stiff batter. Be 
, careful not to make the batter too thin by using too much water. Raise about three hours, 
and bake about three hours. In order to get the most thorough bake, and to make the cake 
as tender as it can be, after it is thoroughly baked and well browned set it on the upper shelf 
of the oven, place a pan of warm water underneath, lower the flame of the lamp to the 
loTTCst point, and keep the cake in the oven for several hours. 

The foregoing specific directions may suflBce by analogy to enable any one who 
possesses the required one part of gumption to apply the simple principles which 
have been laid down, to other specific recipes. 

In dealing with the materials of which our food consists, it may be remarked 
. that they may be divided in a broad and general way into certain classes : First, 
meats ; second, fish ; third, grains ; and fourth, vegetables. 

Beversing the order, roots and tubers may preferably be boiled. They are not 
injured by it ; the expansion of the steam in the cells renders the potato mealy and 
more palatable, while boiling does not injure beets, carrots or parsnips, because 
there is enough flavor and to spare, in either. Green vegetables, like asparagus, 
pease and beans, to which squash may be added, are better and of finer flavor when 
simmered, either in their own juice or with a little water added, than if they are 
boiled. 

All the grains whether converted into the form of bread, or whether cooked in 
the form of oatmeal, mush, cracked wheat, etc., retain their flavor and are much 
better, if cooked long at a very moderate degree of heat. Those which are to be 
eaten in the form of porridge or mush, are much better when cooked for a long time 
at less than the boiling point, than when cooked in any other way. 



THE SCIKNCB OF NUTRITION. 71 

In respect to meats, it may be remarked that to boil meat is to spoil meat. 
While "meat may be boiled to rags/' as it is sometimes put, the boiling toughens 
each separate fibre, while the process takes all the flavor and juice of the meat into 
the water. All other methods, roasting, imitating a broil, etc., applied to meat, 
should be done at such a moderate degree of heat as will not distil or dissociate ^he 
fats, and not at the high heat of the common stove. 

The chafing dish or blazer is a valuable auxiliary to the oven in making 
sauces or preparing cold meat upon a table. A very excellent recipe for serving 
cold mutton or venison in a delicious hot form is as follows : 

Put the gravy into a chafing dish or blazer, add a saltspoonful of Nepaul pepper, a 
suspicion of cayenne pepper, a wine glass of sherry or white wine, a dessertspoonful of 
walnut catsup, two teaspoonfuls or a little more according to taste, of currant jelly. Stir 
while the ingredients are mixing. Put in the cold meat and warm it, or oook it a Uttla if it is 
very rare. In dealing with cold beef omit the jelly. 

ALL SORTS OF THINGS. 

Take any receipt out of any book. Bear in mind that beating up materials or 
mixing them together, is a different matter from stirring them when they are upon 
the stove. The stirring process over the fire, which leads to so much discomfort, is 
merely a corrective of the bad methods of hot iron-stove cooking. It simply keeps 
the mixture in the pan from scorching or burning under the excessive heat. Stir- 
ring upon a stove is in fact a process of cooling which may be wholly dispensed with 
when the same materials are subjected to a moderate heat in the Aladdin Oven. 
Acting upon this hint, almost every recipe that is given in any of the books, can 
be worked out successfully with the Aladdin Oven or in the chafing dish, much 
better than it can be upon the hot iron stove or range. 

FRYING. 

I have not attempted true frying in the Aladdin Oven, although I doubt not 
that if a powerful lamp were used and the frying pan were placed on the bottom of 
the oven it could be done, but it were better done on an open stove. 

The abominable process commonly called frying as practiced in this country, 
consists in a very bad method of saut^ing and is not frying at all. What true 
frying is is most fully explained by Sir Henry Thompson, M. D., in his most 
valuable treatise on Pood and Feeding, pp. 86, 87, 88, 89, which I venture 
to copy : 



72 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

"The process of frying is rarely nnderstood, and is generally very imperfectly 
practised by the ordinary English cook. The products of our frying pan are often 
greasy, and, therefore, for many persons indigestible, the shallow form of the pan 
being unsuited for the process of cooking at a high temperature in oil, that is, at a 
heat of about 360 degrees to 390 degrees Pahr., that of boiling water being 212 
degrees. This high temperature produces results, which are equivalent, indeed, to 
quick roasting, when the article to be cooked is immersed in -the nearly boiling fat. 
Frying, as generally conducted, is rather a combination of broiling and toasting or 
scorching ; and the use of the deep pan of heated oil or dripping, which is essential to 
the right performance of the process, and especially in order to prevent greasiness, is a 
rare exception, and not the rule in ordinary kitchens. A few words of explanation 
are necessary in relation to the tempemture of the fat which forms the frying: bath, 
a matter of importance to ensure satisfactory results. When a bath of melting fat 
is placed on the fire and the temperature has risen to 212 degrees, some bubbles 
come to the surface with a hissing sound ; these are due to a small portion of water, 
which being converted into steam, rise until all is got rid of. This is not the 
boiling of the fat, which is now tranquil, and when the temperature has advanced 
much higher, to something like 340 degrees, a slight vapour is given off. If the 
fat is permitted to become much hotter, smoke appears, indicating a degree of heat 
to be avoided, and that the fat has reached what is called the boiling point; when it 
decomposes iind spoils. Before this is reached, the heat should be tested by putting 
in a slip of bread, which if browned in a few seconds, a sufficient temperature has 
been attained, and the bath is ready for use. The above remarks apply equally to 
the temperature of any oil used for the same purpose. The principle on which 
success depends is, that at the moment of contact with the almost boiling fat or 
oil, a thin film of every part of the surface of the fish or other object to be fried is 
coagulated, so that the juices with their flavors, etc., are at once locked up within, 
and nothing can escape. The bath should, therefore, contain quantity sufficient, 
and also be hot enough, to effect this result in an instant, after which, and during 
the few seconds or minutes requisite to cook the interior, the heat is often slightly 
lowered with advantage. The fish or other material employed emerges, when done, 
with a surface to which a little oil adheres, but this will drain off, owing to its 
extreme fluidity when hot, if left on a napkin slanting a minute or two before the 
fire ; better still on white blotting paper ; and thus it may be served absolutely free 
from grease. The film of egg often applied to the surface of an object to be fried, 
is in the same manner instantly coagulated and forms an impermeable case; while 
the fine bread crumbs adhering to it take a fine yellow color, being slightly charred 
or toasted by the high temperature they are exposed to. In order to be free from 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 78 

grease the bread or bidt^uit crumbs should be very fine^ adhering by means of a thin 
layer of egg previously applied by the brush. If they are coarse and too abundantly 
used, grease will adhere to the surface or be absorbed by it. 

'^Excellent and fresh olive oil, which need not be so perfect in tint and flavor 
as the choicest kinds'reserved for the salad bowl, is the best available form of fat for 
frying, and is sold at a moderate price by the gallon for this purpose at the best 
Italian warehouses. Nothing, perhaps, is better than well-clarified beef dripping, 
such as is produced, often abundantly, in every English kitchen ; but the time- 
honored traditions of our perquisite system enable any English cook to sell this 
for herself, at small price, to a little trader round the corner, while she buys, at her 
employer's cost, a quantity of pork lard for frying material, at double the price 
obtained for the dripping. Unfortunately, however, lard is the worst menstruum 
for the purpose, the most difficult to work in so as to free the matters fried in it 
from grease ; and we might be glad to buy back our own dripping from the 
aforesaid little trader, at a profit to him of cent, per cent., if only the purchase 
could be diplomatically negotiated. But so sweet is acquisition by way of per- 
quisite, that none of the present race of cooks appear disposed to part with this 
particular one for any consideration which can be offered. They are, doubtless, 
aft>er their fashion, true to their order, and regard in the light of sacrilege any 
interference with these principles and traditions. '' 

The following rules and specific recipes give the results of an experience of about 
three years in my own family averaging eight to ten in number, the oven in use being 
the standard oven under the control of an intelligent cook who has greatly aided me 
in the development of this system. 

I think it better to give the rules and recipes which have been established in 
household practice in this place, to be followed subsequently by others derived from 
the practice of Miss Daniell and Mrs. Abel, which will be more accurate. Our own 
practice has been of the experimental sort, and the record will only give some gen- 
eral ideas of what we have done. 

sonp& 

For soups take any bones or scraps of meat and vegetables that are in a sound condition, 
cover with water and cook over night, with the lamp low. Set aside to cool, remove the fat, 
and treat the stock according to taste. After a very little experience the be^t results will be 
secured. 

smN-OF-BEEF som>. 

Four pounds shin of beef, one carrot, one onion, a few whole cloves stuck in the onion. 
Oook over night with water to cover. Lamp low. 



74 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

• MUTTON CHOPS. 

Set chops in a tin or on a drainer on the bottom shelf of the oven. . Sprinkle with pepper 
and salt Cook half an hour. Fall lamp power. 

BEEFSTEAK — TWO POUNDS. 

Set in tin on either shelf— the bottom best. Sprinkle with pepper and salt. Oook half 
an hour. Fall lamp power. 

ROAST BEEF AND POTATOES. 

The oven being already heated, pat the sirloin in, timed according to size. One and a 
half hoars before the beef is to be served, having peeled potatoes of moderate size, put them 
into the pan around the beef ; if of large size, divide lengthwise. 

VEAL. 

Four pounds of veal, two slices of salt pork. Put pork on top of veaL Baste with a 
little flour and salt. Oook two hours on lower shelf. Full lamp power. 
Oook beef, mutton and lamb the same way, omitting the pork. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Put six pounds of corned beef in a porcelain kettle. Oover with water. Put cover on 
and cook five hours on lower shelf. Lamp low. 

CHICKEN. 

Cut chicken to broil. Take off skin and lay in a dish. Oover with bread crumbs and 
small pieces of butter. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt. Oook two hours on bottom shelf. 
Full lamp power. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

Out chicken in pieces and skin it. Put in a baking dish and cover with cream sauce ; 
cover with bread crumbs and a little piece of butter. Season with pepper and salt. Oook 
two chickens two and one-half hours. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One tablespoonf ul of flour and one of butter ; one pint of milk. 

PORK BMOTHEBED IN APPLES. 

Out all the fat off the pork chops and lay in a braising dish ; take one and one-half cups 
meat stock and thicken with a tablespoonful browned flour and a small piece of butter. 
Cover and cook one and one-half hours. 

GROUSE. 

Two grouse roast half to one hour, lower shelf. 

Gravt — One-half pint of milk put in a saucepan over teakettle, two tablespoons bread 
crumbs, a little onion juice, and pepper and salt to season. Pour over grouse when done. 

BEEF. 

Oook one hour. Take three pounds solid beef and pour the following gravy over it : 
Gravy — One tablespoonfal of browned flour, one and one-half cups French canned 
mushrooms, one-half cup boiling water. 



THE SCIENCE OF KUTRITION. 7^ 

QUAIL. 

Cook one and one-half hours. Make sauce the same as for the g^use and pour over the 
quail when they are done. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Put into a large crock a strong pickle^ — two-thirds table salt, one-third saltpetre— add 
two great spoonfuls of brown sugar, one flat tablespoonful of allspice, one flat teaspoonful 
of cloves and one of mace, a dozen pickled onions, half a teacupful of juniper berries, 
pepper to taste. In this liquor put ten to fifteen pounds, without bone, of the bottom of the 
round of beef ; leave it in five or six days ; draw off the liquor, put in a little hot water, place 
in the oven with cover on, and cook five or six hours. 

The. spices can be varied, juniper berries omitted, tarragon vinegar added, or any other 
variation. To be eaten cold. Keep the beef wholly in the pickle, with a clean paving stone 
on the top. 

HALIBUT A LA CBEME. 

Three pounds of halibut. 

Sauce— One pint of milk, one teaspoonful of onion juice, butter half the size of an egg. 
Season with pepper and salt. Break the fish into small pieces, put a layer of fish in the dish* 
then pour some sauce over it ; then put another layer of fish, and so on till the dish is full. 
Sprinkle the top with bread crumbs. Cook one and one-quarter hours. High wick, 
either shelf. 

Baked macaroni, one and one-quarter hours, either shelf, high wick. Scalloped tomato, 
one and one-quarter hours, either shelf, high wick. Baked potatoes, two hours. 

STEWED celery 

Take two heads of celery and cover with a sauce ; cook on the bottom shelf from one to 
two hours. Full lamp power. 

Sauce — One pint of milk, thickened with flour, small piece of butter.* Pour this over the 
celery and sprinkle with bread crumbs. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

Take two oyster plants and cook in the same way as the celery. 

' ASPARAGUS. 

Two bunches of asparagus ; wash and cut off the roots ; toast some bread, and butter the 
slices ; put the toast in a dish and the asparagus on the toast ; put little piece of butter on the 
asparagus and sprinkle with salt. Oover and cook two houro on either shelf. Full lamp 
power. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Crust — Almost one pint of flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, butter 
one-half the size of an egg, one cup of milk. Boll thin like pie crust. 

Slice five apples and season with a little grated nutmeg and two tablespoonf nls of sugar; 
put in a dish and cover with crust. Bake one and one-half hours, lower shelf is best 
Full lamp power. 



76 THB SGIENCB OF NUTRITION. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Take a qnart dish and pat in it a layer of common crackers. On the crackers pat a 
layer of raisins, and so on till the dish is full. Take three eggs and beat them up ; add one- 
half pint of milk and vanilla to flavor. Poar over the pudding. Cook one hour, either shelf. 
May add sugar or serve with sauce. 

POP OVERS. 

Five eggs, one cup of flour, one quart of milk, a little salt ; beat eggs very light, mix 
other ingredients with egg. Put in little tins or cups and bake one hour, lower shelf. 
Full lamp power. 

COTTAOE PUDDINO. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one cup of milk, two eggs, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat up eggs with sugar and butter, add the 
other things and bake one hour on either shelf. 

BROWN PUDDING. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of raisins, one-half cup of suet, one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one cup of molasses, one and one-half cups of milk, little salt, one-half 
teaspoonf ul grated nutmeg, one-half toaspoonful allspice, one-half teaspoonful cloves. Mix 
and bake three hours. 

INDUN PUDDING. 

Two quarts of milk, one cup of Indian meal, one cup of molasses, small piece of butter. 
Mix and bake four hours with a low wick— either shelf, bottom best. 

BIRD'S-NEST PUDDING. 

Eight apples pared and cored, one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, little salt, grated peel of one lemon. Put the apple in dish, mix 
the other ingredients and pour over the apples. Bake one hour. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Five eggs, one quart of milk, a little salt ; beat up eggs ; dissolve five tablespoonfuls of 
flour in the milk, mix and add one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake three-quarters of an 
hour on either shelf. 

GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, heated ; stir in one-half cup ground rice ; cook on range fifteen 
minutes ; let it cool ; beat three eggs very light, mix with the rice and milk ; add a small 
tabiespoonful of butter and the juice of half a lemon. Bake one hour. 

POOR man's PUDDING. 

Two quarts of milk, one tabiespoonful of sugar, one-half cup of rice, a little salt Bake 
four hours with a low wick. 

HASTY PUDDING. 

One and one- half cups of yellow corn-meal, two quarts of water ; cover. Cook four 
hours on second shelf with the wick high, or all night with the wick low. 



THE SCIBNOB OF NUTRITION. 77 

To Frt. — Put a pan on the lower shelf of the oven and put batter in it. Cat the 
padding in thin slices and fry in the pan. 

SPONQB CAKE. 

Six eggs, one-half cup of boiling water, two cups of flour ; beat whites of egi^ stiff ; 
beat up yolks with two cups of sugar. Mix other ingredients in and bake three-quarters of 
an hoar on lower shelf. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, four eggs, four caps of flour, one- 
half teaspoonf ul ground nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful cloves, one-half teaspoonful allspice, 
less than one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one cup of raisins ; beat up eggs. Mix and bake 
one hour on bottom shelf. 

0IN6ERBBEAD. 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of boiling water, one teaspoonful of butter, one and 
one half cups of flour, one egg, a little salt ; beat up egg; add other ingredients, the flour 
last. Bake one and one-quarter hours. 

RYE Biscurrs. 

One and one-half cups rye meal, one and one-half cups of white flour, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one pint of milk, one egg ; beat 
np egg and mix in other things. Bake one and one-quarter hoars, either shelf, full lamp 
power. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of rye meal, two cups of Indian meal, one cup of molasses, one teaspoonfal of 
salt, one and one- half teaspoonf uls of baking powder, about one quart of milk, enough to 
make a stiff batter. Bake three and one-half hours. 

WHITE BREAD. 

Four quarts of flour; take an equal quantity of milk and water, enough to make a 
batter ; take a little sugar, salt and butter, stir with a bread-mixer or a spoon for ten 
minutes. Rai^e five hours in a bread-raiser. Bake two hours with a high wick, or four 
hours with the lamp low. 

Bake white biscuits one hour and a quarter. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Two quarts of Graham flour, one quart of white flour ; one-half milk and one-half water 
to make a batter ; one-half cup of molasses, a lit tie salt ; stir the same as the white bread. 
Raise five hoars in bread-raiser and bake two hours, wick high. Biscuits one hoar. 

CORN BREAD. 

One cup of white meal, one cup of flour, one and one-half cups of milk, two table- 
apoonf uls of sugar, one tablespoonf ul of melted butter, a little salt. Mix and pour in a pan, 
having the mixture about one inch thick. Bake one hoar. 



78 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

THIN INDIAN CAKE. 

One cnp of Indian meal ; hot water to make it stiff enough to spread ; one teaspoonfol 
of sngar and a little batter and salt. Spread very thin on tins and bake one hour. 

HOMINT. 

One cnp of the coarsest hominy, two quarts of water ; put the hominy in a pot, pour the 
water in and season with a little salt. Cover and cook five hours. Low wick. 

OOFFEE. 

Soak a cup of coffee over night in a quart of water. In the morning set in the oven on 
the bottom shelf and heat it twenty minutes. Strain or clear with white of an egg before 
heating. 

POULTRY AND BIRDS. ALADDIN FASHION. CHICKENS. 

Out up the chickens as if for fricassee. Lay slices of cold toasted bread in the bottom 
of the baking pan. Place the chicken upon that, fill up the interstices with sausages, sliced 
apples and potatoes cut into halves lengthwise, then sprinkle with bread crumbs. Put some 
pats of butter with the bread crumbs. Bake about three hours. 

In place of the cold toast use coarse hominy samp, which has been cooked all night 
slowly, with canned tomato or tomato sauce; or put rice upon the bottom of a pan pre- 
viously soaked so as to have become soft, and use any seasoning you like, either curry powder, 
or celery salt, or canned mushrooms, or tomato catsup. Fowls may be dealt with in the same 
way, but should have been previously cooked so as to have become tender; time, according to 
their size. Cook in tight boxes and use juices to soften the hominy or the rice, making a gravy. 

Another way: Cut chickeps into small pieces, making cream sauce of one pint of milk, a 
piece of butter the size of a small egg, a tablespoonful of flour and a little salt. Put together 
into a crockery jar with cover and bake three hours; fowls, cook five hours. Vary by adding 
celery seed, celery salt, mushrooms, or other flavoring. 

POTTED CHICKEN, GROUSE, OR OTHER BIRDS. 

Cut up into small pieces if the birds are large, otherwise cook birds whole, in a brown 
sauce made with a little onion, salt and pepper and a little brown flour and some water. Put 
all into a jar and cook slowly until very tender. When preparing the chicken it is better to 
saut^ or fry it in a pan to a light brown before putting into the jar. Another way is to 
cut off the wings and legs, make sauce, and cook in a jar; then roast the rest of the bird, 
rare or well done at will; serve together. The wings and legs of ducks and grouse which 
are apt to be wasted when the birds have been roasted whole, may be potted with the 
remainder of the carcass. When the meat used in potting has been previously cooked, the 
preparation should be cooked in the jar from two hours to two and one-half hours; when 
cooked raw, four hours. 

Many persons will be surprised with the results that can be attained with almost 
any kind of meat in dealing with it by methods corresponding to the above. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 79 

PIE CRUST FOR FOUR TEN-INCH PIES. 

Take one qaart of flour, one cup and a half either of batter, — or half butter and half 
lard,— or three-quarters butter and one-quarter lard; combine the dry flour with this material 
as thoroughly as possible ; then moisten with a very little water; then spread in a sheet about 
one inch thick, ten to twelve inches wide. 

Upon the surface of this sheet spread a half cup of the butter, or of the butter and lard; 
on the surface dust flour from a dredging box, and roll into a roll of about four inches diam- 
eter; then cut this roll erossway into eight pieces — four tops and four bottoms; turn these 
pieces upon tlieir sideSy and then roll^each out to the size and shape of the plate. 

The whole secret of making flaky pie crust consists in turning these sections of the roll 
^pon their sides so that the rolling will be across the section. An examination of the condi- 
tion of the dough when thus rolled, will show why the crust bakes in a flaky condition. 



BOILED DISH. 



Cabbage and Sausage. — Complete success has been attained in cooking 
corned beef, salt pork, turnips, beets, and cabbage, and also in cooking cabbage and 
sausage, a very popular French dish under the name of saucisse auz choux, in 
tight tin vessels, subjected to moderate heat for flye hours. No perceptible smell 
was given off in the room, and the cabbage was cooked in a most tender and 
appeliizing manner. 

Liver, Bacon and Cabbage may be cooked in the same way, practically 
without any smell to which objection could be taken. 

A very excellent preparation of liver, the cheaper parts of veal, and other 
somewhat tasteless kinds of meat, is to put them for a day in a hot summer, or 
longer in winter, in ar strong pickle, made with salt, saltpetre and brown sugar, 
seasoned to taste, either with spice, peppersauce, onions or any other seasoning, 
then cook with cabbage as above, either with or without bacon or pork. This 
makes about as strong a food for the least proportionate amount of money that can 
be devised. Not suitable for people in very sedentary occupations. 

PRESERVING FRUIT WITH AND WITHOUT SUGAR. 

During the present summer (1891) I have tried some experiments in saving 
summer fruits, the results of which may not be fully decided before the first edition 
of this treatise is issued. 

I have dealt with Cherries, Strawberries, Gooseberries, Currants, Blueberries 
and Pineapple. 



80 XHE SCIENCE OF NDTEITION. 

Method. — I have two square tinned copper vessels^ each of half the size of the 
oven^ with handles at the front and sides for easy handling. 

One is placed npon the close bottom shelf — not directly upon the bottom of the 
oven. The other is placed upon the middle shelf. 

Into each pour cold water about one inch deep. 

In glass jars of any suitable kind place the fruit — cherries or currants stummed, 
gooseberries, strawberries and blueberries carefully picked. To the gooseberries I 
added a large quantity of sugar^ to the strawberries and cherries a very little, to the 
currants and blueberries none. I filled up even with cold water; placed in the 
tinned copper vessels, with covers on loosely ; placed them in the oven, cooked all 
night with a duplex burner, each wick one and one-half inches wide. The heat did 
not reach the boiling point, but was at about 200° F. in the morning, with the lamp 
stiH burning. Gooseberries overcooked and shrivelled, but the syrup very fine. 
The fruit had all shrunk a little. I filled each >r even full with water just off the 
boiling point and closed at once, placing the jars ajain in the hot water in the pans 
and cooling off gradually without cracking a single jlass jar. 

The pineapple was peeled and cut into small pieces, which I forced into open 
jars of tumbler shape with a marble pestle, without sugar. The .:k:ns and buttc; 
were placed in a tureen with some water. The fruit in the jars cooked r.*^'. ni^ht in 
one oven in the manner previously described. The juice extracted from the skins 
and butts having been strained was reheated to the boiling point, and the jars filled 
even with this liquid and then closed. 

In each case the specific flavor of the fruit seems to be developed to the very 
highest point. At this date the cherries have been consumed, f'.nd all the other 
varieties seem to be in sound condition and likely to keep indefinitely. 

The same ; recesses applied to meats and soup stock did not prove a success. I 
succeeded, however, perfectly in cooking tough meat and converting i!; into a most 
tender condition in the glass jars, but it did not keep after scaling. 

If this method of saving summer fruit without sugar should prove a success it 
may be applied in the tropics to some kinds of fruit that are very perishable and 
cannot be transported in their natural condition. 

The surest course seems to be to ripen the fruit and develop the fiavor by 
subjecting it to a low heat, 140° to 150° during the night, forcing it in the 
morning to about 200°, and then sealing while at that temperature. 



TH£ SCIENCE OF KUTBITION. 81 

FAT POEK COOKED. 

A SUBSTITUTE FOR CODHVER OIL. 

A physician, who has been making experiments in the use of the Aladdin oven 
with a view to nutrition as a method to cure in disease, has called my attention to 
certain paragraphs in Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet's treatise upon gynaecology, page 
97. This paragraph is as follows : 

''An excellent substitute for Cod Liver Oil, and one of ten better tolerated, is fat 
pork properly prepared. I direct a thick portion of a rib piece, free from lean, to 
be selected and allowed to remain in soak for thirty-six hours before being boiled, 
the water being frequently changed to get rid of the salt. It should be boiled 
slowly and thoroughly cooked, and while boiling the water must be changed several 
times by pouring it off and fresh water, nearly boiling, substituted. It is to be eaten 
cold in the form of a sandwich from stale bread, and both should be cut as thin as 
possible. It is very nutritious, but it should be given in small quantities until a 
taste for it has been acquired. It may be made palatable by the addition of a little 
table salt. May be rubbed up in a mortar. 

"I some years ago saved the lives of two of my children, who, on different 
occasions, were suffering from cholera infantum, by feeding them entirely on the fat 
of pork prepared in this way, and while nothing else would be retained on their 
stomachs, not only was it retained but it also had a beneficial effect on the 
diarrhoea." 

I have treated fat pork by washing out the salt according to the instructions, 
then cooking it very long and very slowly in a tight box, the pork resting upon a 
drainer. It is reduced to the condition in which jt seems to be exactly adapted to 
the purpose named by Dr. Emmet, and when re-salted and made into a sandwich 
with two slices of dry toast it is indeed very appetizing. 

This substitute for codliver oil may serve a useful purpose in dealing with 
patients who cannot overcome their repugnance to the oil. 



SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



EEPOETS. 



Miss Maria Daniell, an experiedced teacher of cookings of Boston, has been es- 
pecially charged with the work of developing methods of five-hour cooking, with a 
view to practice by those who can give no attention to the process while absent or 
occupied in other work. Miss Daniell has also computed t}¥elve dietaries for thirty 
days, in due proportion, which have been verified by Mrs. Richards, and are 
given elsewhere. 

REPORT OF MISS MARIA DANIELL. 

When I was first asked to undertake the work of experimenting with the work- 
man's dinner pail, and to make up dishes that might be cooked five hours without 
detriment, I felt that my field would be a very small one, especially as I must use 
only the very cheapest kinds of food. I accordingly began with shin and shoulder of 
beef, and neck and flank of mutton, and by making for the former a nice brown 
sauce, using the marrow in place of butter, and such seasoning as Worcestershire 
sauce and tomato catsup, I succeeded in making a very nice dish, which I placed 
before the members of my family for breakfast, and which they pronounced deli- 
cious. For the mutton I made a white sauce, this time using butter and only 
pepper and salt as seasoning, with a small piece of onion. This, also, was very much 
liked. But now came the question, would not the people who would be most likely 
to use the pail oven, think it too much work to make the sauces, and would they, 
many of them, have the time? It was evident to my mind that I must try putting 
the meat, flour and seasoning, all into the little crock together, cover it with boil- 
ing water, and let the sauce take care of itself. This was so contrary to all estab- 
lished rules of cookery that I did it with some doubt, but I must confess I was 
surprised at the result. The butter or dripping came to the top, as is always the 
case in long cooking, but when that was removed with a spoon, a most appetizing 
dish was presented. In the pail oven having the four triangular dishes and one 
round one, a whole dinner was cooked, with the most gratifying result. In one of 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 83 

the small dishes was placed some split pease, which had been soaked over night, 
with just enough water to make a pease pudding ; in a second, some coarse hominy, 
also soaked over night ; in a third, some tomato, bread crumbs and seasoning, (scal- 
loped tomato), and in a fourth, some oatmeal for dessert. In the round dish was 
placed some fiank of mutton, with onion, tomato, and a spoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, salt and pepper, and a little butter and flour mixed together and mixed 
with boiling water ; then over the whole was poured boiling water, enough to about 
half fill the tin. The pail oven had been heated for about an hour. The small 
tins were placed at the bottom, and the one with the stew on top, and left for about 
three hours. Then the dishes were changed, the stew put on the bottom, and the 
little dishes on top, and it was left two hours longer, at the end of which time the 
dinner was dished. The grains were well cooked, and the stew exceedingly, nice, 
and pronounced by a rather fastidious young man, "good enough for anyone." 
After this I tried every kind of meat and fish that could be bought at a low price, 
and was surprised to find how many things were within my reach. Besides shin 
and shoulder of beef, neck and flank of mutton, there are such things as calf's 
heart, lamb's heart and liver, calf's head, pig's head and feet, tripe, beef skirt, beet 
flank, beef liver, beef heart, salt fish, fresh haddock, halibut nape, and all the dif- 
ferent kinds of grains, bacon sausage, kidneys, skim milk and cheese; nearly, if not 
all, of which have been considered in my thirty days' dietaries, and recipes for the 
cooking of which I will now proceed to give. With regard to the size of pail oven, 
I think the size of the one that I have at my house, in which the dinner I have 
mentioned was cooked, works to better advantage than the larger ones. 

I have always cooked in it with the same lamp that I use with the workman's 
dinner pail ; and the dishes ought always to be changed, when they have been cook- 
ing about half the time required for the completion of the work ; then everything 
will come out perfect. 

Nora.— These cylindrical ovens have since been somewhat changed in form, and are now for sale. 

B.A. 

In my work with the '' Aladdin Oven," I have not confined myself to cheap 
food, as the work done in the pail ovens could any of it be as well-cooked in 
the Aladdin. So I have proved the oven with the more expensive foods, such 
as fillet of beef, roast and braised chicken, soups and stews of all kinds, puddings 
and cake, and in every case the result has been simply perfect. I have never before 
been able to bake cake or bread in such perfection as I do now in the Aladdin Oven, 
and with such perfect confidence as to the result ; indeed, I feel that I cannot say 
enough in its praise, and I would not part with the one I have, if I could help it, 
for more than twice its cost. 



1 



84 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

The tough pieces of meat are rendered tender and delicious by the slow cookings 
and soup made in the oven is superior to any I have ever tasted. 

I also value, very highly, the Stanyan Bread Eneader, and the Case Bread Raiser. 
I think they should be included in the furnishings of every kitchen. 

I prefer heavy tin dishes for box cooking of meats and soups in the Aladdin 
Oven, as the stoneware is apt to become crackled and absorbs the fat, and, after a 
time, becomes rancid. 

For the pail oven I like the agate ware best, though the heavy yellow stoneware, 
being cheaper, does very well, is much better than the brown ware, which I found 
too thin and apt to burn on the bottom. 

Bread, kneaded fifteen minutes in the Stanyan Bread Eneader, raised three 
hours in the Case Bread Raiser, then just handled enough to make into loaves, and 
put back in the Raiser for half an hour, will be found in the most perfect condition 
to bake, having taken less than' four hours to prepare. One of the best of bread 
makers has said: ''The ideal bread-pan should be made four inches wide and four 
inches deep, and any length you wish — ten inches makes a very good-sized loaf/' 

Miss Parloa says: 

GOOD TESTS OF OVEN HEAT WHEN BAKING. 

For sponge cake and pound cake, have heat that will in five minutes torn a piece of white 
paper light yellow. 

For all other kinds of cup cake, use an oven that will in five minutes turn a piece of white 
paper dark yellow. 

For bread and pastry, have an oven that will in five minutes turn a piece of paper dark 
brown. 

I think there should be an oil stove, with at least two covers, for heating water 
and doing such things as cannot well be done in the oven. Such a stove can be 
procured at the Central Oil Stove Company, 78 Washington street, Boston, for about 
six dollars. 

For the work of a large family, I would prefer a large oil stove made by the 
Smith & Anthony Stove Company, on Union street, Boston. 

With regard to time of cooking in the Aladdin Oven, I allow about one-third 
longer than in the oven of the coal stove. 

It requires fully two weeks of constant use to get the oven seasoned; then this 
list can be relied upon, we think, as to time: 

I find the time given in Mrs. Sterling's letter agrees so well with my own ex- 
periments for the cooking of the various dishes that I have had it copied and added 
to these papers. 



THE BCIBNCB OF NUTRITION. 



85 



RoaRt Beef (oyer 8 lbs.), 

** ** (under 8 lbs.), 
Hindquarter Spring Lamb, 
Smothered Chicken, 

Roast Chicken, . . ... 

Chicken Pot-Pie, 
Irish Stew (breast and shoulder). 
Cauliflower (put in boiling water), 
Asparagus, .... 

Sliced raw Potai ns stewed in Milk, 

(Seasoned, when put in, with salt, pepper 
Baked Apples, . 

Stewed Prunes, .... 
Graham Bread (8 in. z Z}4 in.), 
White Bread, 

Layer Cake, .... 
Corn Meal Muffins, 



and butter, very nice.) 



25 minutes to lb. 


20 


ii ii 


2)4 hours. 


8 


i< 


8>^ 


«t 


8 


u 

* 


8 


<f 


1^ 


M 


IX 


(( 


8>i 


M 


) 




2 


it 


2 


«k 


4>^ 


t( 


8>i 


M 


1 


Ii 


l>i 


M 



MISS DANIELL'S RECIPES. 

BEEF, OATMEAL AND TOMATO. 

1. Cut one pound of shin of beef into small pieces. Season with pepper and salt. Cut 
up two sausagcjp into inch pieces, roll in flour and put into an earthen dish. Add one cupful 
of canned tomato, one-third cupful of oatmeal and one teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, 
and cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. Cost, 1 1 cents. Weight, with water added, two and 
one-fourth pounds.* 

pigs' FEET A LA VINAIGRETTE. 

2. Cut up one pound of pickled pigs* feet in small pieces. Put into an earthen dish. Pour 
over them one and one-half cupfuls of boiling water. Mix one tablespoonful of butter with 
one large tablespoonful of flour and add to the water. Salt and pepper to taste, and add 
one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Cook two hours in Aladdin Pail. 

TRIPE A LA VINAIGRETTE. 

8. Take one pound of pickled tripe, cut into small pieces. Put it into earthen dish. Mix 
one tablespoonful of butter with one tablespoonful of flour and add one cupful of boiling 
water, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and ^alt and pepper to taste. Pour this 
over the tripe and cook two hours in the Aiaddin Pail. 

TRIPE A LA CREME. 

4. Cue pound of fresh tripe cut into small pieces. Sprinkle over it pepper and salt 
Mix one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of butter, a small slice of onion and one 

* All these preparatioDS may be cooked in oovered boxes or dishes la the standard Aladdin Oyen, as well as 
in the pail or cylinder ov«n. £. A. 



86 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

cupf al of milk. Pour this over the tripe. Taste to see if salt enough, and eook two hours 
in Aladdin Pail. 

BEEF 8T1W. * 

5. Out one pound of shin of beef into small pieces. Pepper, salt and dredge thickly 
with flour. Add one small onion cut into slices, three or four slices of carrot, and the same 
of turnip. One teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of tomato catsup. 
Oover with boiling water and cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. 

BEEF ROLL. 

6. Take ten ounces of lean beef from shoulder or shin. Take two ounces of sausage meat 
and mix with an equal quantity of stale bread crumbs. Out the meat into 43lices one half inch 
thick and spread with the sausage. Boll up and tie firmly. Salt, pepper and dredge thickly 
with flour. Put into an earthen dish with one small slice of onion, one-half teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce and two teaspoonf uls of tomato catsup. Oover with boiling water and 
cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. Oost, 10 cents. Weight, one and one-fourth pounds. 

BEEF ROLL, NO. 2. 

Take ten ounces of lean beef from shoulder or shin. Take two ounces of sausage meat 
with an equal amount of stale bread crumbs. Out meat into slices one-half inch thick. Mix 
crumbs and sausage meat and spread on the beef. Roll up and tie firmly. Try out two 
ounces of fat salt pork and brown the meat in it. Take from the fat and place in earthen dish. 
Add to the fat one tablespoonful of flour, and brown ; then add one-half pint of boiling water. 
Boil five minutes. Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce and two teaspoonf uls of tomato catsup. Pour over the meat and cook five hours 
in Aladdin Pail. Oost, 10 cents. Weight, one pound and six ounces. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

7. Take one pound of the shoulder of beef and two slices of bacon. Salt, pepper and flour 
the meat. Put in earthen dish and add three whole cloves, one-half dozen whole allspice, 
one slice of onion, one teaspoonful of powdered thyme, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 
one-half pint of hot water. If liked turnips and carrots may be added. Oook five hours in 
Aladdin Pail. 

BEEF SKIRT STEAK. 

8. Take one pound of beef skirt. Pepper, salt and dredge with flour. Put in earthen 
dish, and add just enough water to partly cover. Mix one teaspoonful of butter with one 
teaspoonful of flour and add to water. Oook two hours in Aladdin Pail. 

STEWED SAUSAGE WITH POTATO. 

9. Put into earthen, dish one-half pound of sausage cut in pieces, with one pound of pota- 
toes cut in thick pieces, peppered and salted, one slice of onion, one teaspoonful of flour 
mixed with a little 'water. -Cover with one-half pint of hot water and cook two hours in 
Aladdin Pail. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 87 

STEAK PUDDING. 

10. One onpfal of flour, one-fourth pound of suet chopped fine, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, and cold water to make stiff as for pie crust. Roll out one-half inch thick. Have one 
pound of beef or mutton from shin or neck, well seasoned with pepper and salt. Put in 
earthen dish with one cupful of water. Cover with paste and cook five hours in Aladdin PaiL 

A SHEEP OR calf's HEART. 

11. Stuff with sausage and bread crumbs. Season with salt and pepper and dredge with 
flour. Put it into earthen dish and add one tablespoon ful of tomato catsup and one small 
slice of onion. Cover with boiling water and cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. Cost, 16 cents. 
Weight, one and one-half pounds. 

FRESH HADDOCK IN TOMATO. 

12. Take one pound of Haddock, salt, pepper and flour it well. Put it into earthen dish, 
and add one small slice of onion. Cover with strained tomato and cook two hours in 
Aladdin Pail. 

SALT CODFISH IN MILK. 

18. Take one-half pound of salt fish, after soaking over night in water, put it into earthen 
dish and cover with milk. . Add two tablespoonfuls of wheat germ meal and cook five hours 
in Aladdin Pail. Cost, 6 cents. Weight, three-fourths pound. 

MUTTON AND TOMATO. 

14. Cut up one pound of neck of mutton into small pieces. Salt and pepper and dredge 
thickly with flour. Put this into earthen dish and cover with strained tomato. Add one 
tablespoonf ul of butter, one teaspoonf ul of Worcestershire sauce and a small piece of onion, 
and cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. Cost, 17 cents. Weight, two pounds. 

MUTTON STEW. 

15. Cut up one pound of flank of mutton into small pieces. Season with pepper and salt 
and put into earthen dish. Add one small onion cut into slices, three or four slices of carrot 
and the same of turnip. Mix one tablespoonf ul of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Mix with warm water and pour over meat. Cover with boiling water, add salt to taste, and 
cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. Cost, 14 cents. Weight, two pounds. 

STEWED BEANS WrTH CORNED SHOULDER OF PORK. 

10. Soak, over night, two- thirds of a cupful of small white beans. Put one-half pound of. 
corned shoulder into earthen dish, add the soaked beans, one small slice of onion and 
a pinch of pepper. Cover with water and cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. 

PEASE PUDDING. 

17. Soak one-half pint of split pease over night. Put into earthen dish. Cover with hot 
water. Add one teaspoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and cook five hours in 
Aladdin Pall. 



88 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

18. Scald one pint of skimmed milk and stir into it, while hot, one-half cupful of Indian 
meal. Add one-half cupful of molasses, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one-half teaspoonf ul 
of ginger or cinnamon. Put in earthen dish and add one-half cupful of cold milk, but do 
not stir. Cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. Butter the dish before turning in the pudding. 

PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

19. Batter earthen dish. Take one-fourth cupful of bread crumbs, one-half cupful of 
flour, one- fourth cupful of suet (chopped fine), one- fourth cupful of raisins, one- fourth cupful 
of molasses, one-fourth cupful of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of cloves and one-fourth teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF BEEF. 

20. Cut one pound shin of beef into small pieces. Dredge with flour, season with salt and 
pepper, and brown in two ounces of fat salt pork. Remove and add to the fat two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and brown. Add one pint of boiling water, one tablespoonful of Worces> 
tershire sauce, one tablespoonful of tomato catsup and one small slice of onion. Pour over 
the meat which has been placed in an earthen dish, and cook five hours in Aladdin Pail. Cost^ 
11 cents. Weight, two pounds two ounces, when ready to cook. 

HADDOCK *IN TOMATO SAUCE. 

21. Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan. Brown in it one tablespoonful of 
flour. Add, gradually, one-half pint of cooked strained tomato. Cook five minutes. Add 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper and one small slice of onion. Add 
one pound of haddock and cook two hours in Aladdin Pail. Cost, 15 cents. Weight, one and 
one-half pounds. 

THANKSGIVING PLUM PUDDING. 

22. Boil one pound of raisins in two quarts of milk. Take out the raisins and add to the 
boiled milk ten eggs well beaten, considerable sugar, and a little salt. Season with spices 
or vanilla. Cut a stale brick-loaf of baker's bread into thin slices, butter and soak them 
in the custard. Butter a deep pudding pan and put in alternate layers of the soaked bread 
and the raisins till the pan is full. Let this stand over night and in the morning fill up with 
milk. Bake two and one-half hours in a slow oven. Eat with cold sauce. 

OATMEAL PUDDING. 

28. One and one-half cupfuls of cold-boiled oatmeal. Add one cupful of sliced apples, 
or one-half cupful of seedless raisins, and one-half teaapoonful of salt. Cook five hours 
in Aladdin Pail i»nd eat with sugar and milk, or butter, for sauce. 

In cooking the grains I used a little less water than is needed when they are 
cooked at a higher degree of heat, as the evaporation is less in the pail oven. To 
all grains, except hominy, I allow three times their bulk of water. To hominy, fine 
or coarse, twice its bulk of water. 



THU SCIENOB OF NUTRITION. 89 

BSEAD. 

One pint of milk and one pint of water (Inkewarm), with two tablespoonfnls of butter or 
dripping melted in it. One yeast cake dissolved in part of this wetting, and flour to make a 
soft dough, with one tablespoonful of salt sifted into it before adding it to the wetting. 

It will take about two and one-half quarts of the best flour. Knead the dough half an 
hour by hand, or fifteen minutes with Stanyan Eneader, and raise three hours in Case Bread 
Raiser. Make into loares, let rise again about one-half hour, and bake in Aladdin Oven one 
and one-half hours. The time given is for loaves baked in pans four inches wide, four inches 
deep and ten inches long. 

TO MAKE STOCK. 

Six pounds of lean beef from the leg, or a knuckle of veal and beef to make six pounds. 
Out this in pieces two inches square or less ; do the same with half a pound of learn ham, free 
from rind or smoky outside, and which has been scalded five minutes. 

Put the meat into a two-gallon pot with three medium-sized onions, with two cloves in 
each, a turnip, a carrot and a small head of celery. Pour over them five quarts of cold 
water, let it come slowly to the boiling point, when skim, and draw to a spot where it will 
gently simmer for six hours. This stock as it is will be an excellent foundation for all kinds 
of clear soups or gravies, with the addition of salt, which must on no account be added 
for glaze. — (From Catherine Owen's Choice Cookery.) 

GLAZE. 

To reduce this stock to glaze do as follows : Strain the stock first through a colander, 
and return meat and vegetables to the pot ; put to them four quarts of hot water and let it 
boil four hours longer. 

The importance of this second boiling, which may at first sight appear useless economy, 
will be seen if you let the two stocks get cold ; the first- will be of delightful flavor, but prob- 
ably quite liquid ; the last will be flavorless, but if the boiling process has been slow enough 
it will be a jelly, the second boiling having been necessary to extract the gelatine from the 
bones, which is indispensable for the formation of glaze. 

Strain both these stocks through a scalded cloth. (If they have been allowed to get cool, 
beat them in order to strain.) Put both stocks together into one large pot, and let it boil as 
fast as possible, with the cover off, leaving a large spoon in it to prevent it boiling over, also 
to stir occasionally ; when it is reduced to three pints put it into a small saucepan, and let it 
boil more slowly. Stir frequently with a wooden spoon until it begins to thicken and has a 
fine yellowish brown color, which will be when it is reduced to a quart or rather less. At 
this point watch closely, as it quickly burns, ^hen there is only a pint and a half it will be 
fit to pour into small cups or jars. It must not be covered until all moisture has evaporated 
and the glaze shrinks from the sides of the jar. This may take a month. 

Of course any strong meat and bone soup can be boiled down in the same way, and where 
there is meat on hand in danger of spoiling, from sudden change of weather, it can be turned 
into glaze, and kept indefinitely. I have found glaze five years old as good as the first week 
—(From Catherine Owen's Choice Cookery.) 



90 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

BEEF A LA MODE 

Take three pounds of fresh beef, trim off the fat ; cut half a pound of bacon into long, 
slender strips, and lard the beef with it. Mix a few cloves, mace, allspice, peppers, cayenne, 
a tablespoonf ul of powdered thyme and two cloves of garlic, with hpilf a pint of malt vinegar. 
Put the meat into an earthen crock, with a thin slice of bacon under it, add the seasoning 
and a pint of soup stock, cover the crock, and simmer six hours. When preferred, vegeta- 
bles may be added, but it is more satisfactory to cook them separately. — (From Thomas J. 
Murrey's Book of Entries.) 

CONSOMME OF FRESH VEGETABLE BOOTS. 

Gut in slices two and one-fourth pounds of carrots and the same weight of onions ; put 
them in a stewpan with some parsley, thyme, shalot and celery, and also one pound two 
ounces of butter. Try gently to a red color, add eight and three-fourths pints of water, let 
it boil and skim it ; next put into it a pint and three-quarters of pease and a couple of let- 
tuces ; then add one and one-fourth ounces of salt, one-third ounce of whole pepper, one 
pinch of nutmeg, three cloves, one and three-fourths pints of dried pease, one and three-fourths 
pints of white haricots. Let it simmer for three hours in the Aladdin Oven, skim off the 
grease and strain through a cloth ; then put aside for use. —(Extract from Sir Henry Thomp- 
son's Food and Feeding.) 



BOX OR PAIL COOKING, OR COOKING IK JARS. 

In the course of my experiments in perfecting the workman's pail, it has become necessary to 
adjust the materials and methods to a process of treatment that may be completed in less than five 
hours, but which may also cover five hours or more without injury to the food. It is assumed that 
a workman may charge bis pail when he leaves- home, reach his work at 7 a. m., when he lights 
the lamp, at 12 m. he is to find his dinner ready; or a woman leaves her room at 8 a. m., return- 
ing at 12 m. to find her dinner ready. 

Nearly all the foregoing recipes have been dealt with in this way in my office dining- 
room, with most acceptable and appetizing results. Many of the members of the Office 
Lunch Club give a great preference to the box or pail cooking in closed vessels, as com- 
pared to the same food cooked in open vessels in the oven. 

In place of the pail or bucket, the Asbestos Paper Co. will soon put a small portable 
oven on the market. E. A. 



THE SCIENCE. OF NUTRITION. 91 



REPORT BY MRS. MARY HINMAN ABEL, 

Author of the Treatise on Cooking, for which the Lomb prize of $500 was awarded 
by the American Public Health Aspociation in 1888. Published by the association. 

THE ALADDIN OVEN FOR FAMILT COOKING. 

The writer has for six months made use of an Aladdin Oven as an adjunct to a gas 
stove in her kitchen ; has done with it all the baking and at least three-quarters of the other 
cooking for the family, the gas stove being used chiefly for roasting, broiling and frying, and 
where speedy boiling of water was necessary, as for tea and coffee. 

.M the result of this experience, the following directions and suggestions are offered for 
the use of those who wish to make trial of the oven. 

If we are interested in the advance of this neglected art of cookery, we shall welcome 
an invention constructed on scientific principles and calling attention to methods of applying 
hiiAt or the conversion of food materials into food for the stomach. We cannot agree with 
the inventor of the oven that any method of applying heat will ever make cookery '* auto- 
matic,^' but we must own that this part of the process has received far too little attention, 
the art of cookery having been held to be too nearly synonymous with the art of mixing. 

The real acceptability of the oven in the average kitchen is only to be settled by trial. 
It seems to have some drawbacks, as the smallness of the space on which actual boiling and 
roasting can be done (that is the oven bottom), as this requires some planning for the suc- 
cessful cooking of an entire dinner without help from another stove. But all that is neces- 
sary is for the person that buys an oven to take it as the inventor now offers it, as an auxiliary 
to the range, and then let it make its own way on its merits.* According to the view of 
those interested in improvements in cooking, this invention ranks high, as it is a distinct 
advance in the requirement that heat should be fully controllable in amount, and that we 
should be able to direct it where it is wanted, and prevent it from going where it is not 
wanted. This latter requirement we may say is met by the non-conducting covering of the 
stove, and to a degree the controllability of the heat is attained; we could say fully so if the 
cooking temperature for an oven full of food or for any given dish could be more quickly 
reached. This the inventor promises us by the use of a more powerful lamp. 

Slow Cooking. — It is for this that the oven is of the greatest value, and we have by its 
use an opportunity to prove or disprove what has so long been asserted, that a long application 
of heat at a temperature lower than has been in general use is neccessary to develop the full 
digestibility and best flavor of many kinds of food, as the coarsely ground grains, the 
tougher cuts of meat, fruits, dried ^ease and beans, and also of many dishes like Indian pud- 
ding, famous in the days of the old brick oven, but almost unknown in their best estate to 
this generation. This slow cooking has little chance of trial in the ordinary stove, although 

* The inventor Is now making experiments on larfirei' sized and more powerful lamps, but he Is at present of 
opinion that two of the present standard ovens will be more convenient and useful than one large one. E. A. 



92 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

the oven of a gas or gasolene stove has been used successfully by the writer in this way, a low 
degree of heat being possible and steadily applied from the sides as well as the bottom. 

OONSTRUCTION OF THE OVEN. 

Every housekeeper knows that a gas or kerosene stove has enough points of difference 
from the ordinary coal range so that she must give it a little study before she can be uniformly 
successful in cooking with it. In the same way, the Aladdin Oven has some points peculiar 
to itself which should be carefully noted to begin with. Notice its construction: 

It is a simple i^on box, closed in front by a door, and having an opening in the top that 
communicates with a tube to let off any superfluous steam. This box is surrounded by 
another whose top and sides are made of non-conducting material for the purpose of holding 
the heat. A standard, on which this box is set, and a lamp underneath completes the 
apparatus. 

Now it is quite evident that this oven is to cook by heat that is slowly accumulated and 
then held to its work by the non-conducting character of the oven walls, and it will be of 
first importance, therefore, to keep it closed as far as possible. 

Second, we shall expect the cooking to be done more slowly than in the ordinary stove, 
at least in the beginning of the process and that more time must be allowed for any given dish. 

Third, we shall doubtless find the bottom of the oven hotter than the top, and the different 
dishes of which the meal is composed must be arranged in the oven accordingly. These 
limitations must be kept in mind that we may know just what we can reasonably expect of a 
cooking apparatus constructed as is the Aladdin Oven. 

The Lamp. — It should be also noted that the condition of the lamp is of great import- 
ance. It must burn evenly and to its full height, unless purposely turned down for slow 
cooking. When the lamp is new it seems to take care of itself, and these conditions are met 
without trouble, but with use the air passages, of course, become clogged and the wick may 
not push up and down easily. If then taken apart and the working parts boiled in soda 
it will again be satisfactory. 

Although the lamp will burn for eight hours after filling, the flame will decrease in 
height after the first few hours, and this, if not noticed, will lead to disappointment We 
have simply to refill the lamp. 

Again, do not continue to use a chimney that has been broken at the top, though the 
break may not seem to interfere with the draft. The heat of the oven will be best econ- 
omized if it is 60 placed that it is not exposed to strong drafts, which must also be avoided as 
making the lamp smoke. 

temperature of oven. 

The empty oven after being heated for two hours has been found on the average at 300° 
F. This in the spring, in a kitchen not otherwise heated and the oven placed in a somewhat 
drafty position between two doors. Under more favorable circumstances the heat was found 
to be 10° to 20° greater. This point is of importance, since it shows the maximum heat of 
the oven and the degree that can be communicated in time to the contents. 

To learn at what rate the heat of the oven was lost to the surrounding air the lamp was 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 93 

extinguished after the oven was fally heated, and after an honr the reading on the ther- 
mometer again taken. It was 150^. How much heat was still held in the walls of the oven 
was shown by again lighting the lamp and testing at intervals. After fifteen minutes the 
oven was found to have again reached its average of 860^. 

Other records with the thermometer show how the temperature is affected by what is 
put in the oven to be cooked. Into the oven as heated above were put four cookers, contain- 
ing six quarts of water and vegetables, at a temperature of 70^. This brought the ther- 
mometer down to 150^. In one and one-half hours after it registered 270^, and in another 
half-hour it bad risen to 325°. 

A two-pound roast of beef was then put in, causing another fall in the reading, and it 
was not till one and one-half hours later that 310° was reached. The cookers in this case 
were covered, allowing very little escape of steam. These and similar observations lead ns 
to a few gf'neral rules as to the use of the oven : 

1. Since it does not reach its full heat for an hour or somewhat more, that time must 
be allowed before it is attempted to bake or roast or to cook in any way requiring a high heat 
at the beginning. Dishes that do not requii'e this high degree of heat may be put in at 
convenience. 

2. The time necessary for cooking any given dish will depend on the size of the dish, 
where it is placed in the oven (whether top or bottom), and on how much other cooking the 
oven is expected to do at the same time. The greater the quantity of food to be raised to a 
certain temperature, the longer it will take. 

3. The boiling or the baking temperature once reached, it is evenly held (unless the 
oven is temporarily cooled by other additions), and the time for cooking a dish may be 
accurately reckoned from that point, according to rules familiar to us in using other stoves. 

Food to be cooked in the Aladdin Oven may, of course, be prepared according to any 
recipe preferred, only slight changes being necessary to adapt to the oven. The main thing 
to be remembered is that evaporation is but slight, and little allowance is to be made for 
"boiling away." 

In general it may be concluded from what has been said of the character of the oven 
that the only dishes that require special attention are those that require a high degree of 
heat at the beginning, as roast beef, or those that should have a continuous application of 
heat at the boiling point, as grains and vegetables containing a large proportion of starch. 
Rice, for instance, may be thoroughly softened at a temperature considerably below the boil- 
ing point, but the raw taste reveals the fact that the starch grains have not been fully rup- 
tured. But the oven cooks easily, on both top and bottom shelves, all kinds of meats on any 
but the roasting principle, eggs in their many combinations, fruits, and most grains and 
vegetables. 

BREAD BAKING. 

It will be found most convenient to so time the making of the bread that it will be ready 
to go into the oven when the dinner comes out. Otherwise, heat the oven for an hour before- 
hand. Use the oblong or brick loaf pans, the loaves baked in which will weigh about one 
and one-quarter pounds ; the oven will accommodate six of these at once. Do not allow thi 



94 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

bread to become quite as light as if to be baked in the ordinary OTen, where its rising is so 
soon checked. Place half of the bread on the lower shelf and half on the middle, and 
exchange them midway in the time of baking. See that the lamp is bumiog perfectly, as its 
full heat is required. 

Time. — Bake rolls, rusks, etc., on the lower shelf, with one grate below, and allow three- 
quarters of an hour, or, if very thin, one-half hour. Bake four loaves of size above 
described, one and one-half hours. For six loaves allow one-quarter to one-half hour more, 
decreasing the heat a little at the last. 

Stirred bread, which can lose more water without becoming dried, may be baked three 
hours or longer, and this time is necessary for bread in which other grains are used, as corn 
and rye. 

Unless this baking time is much exceeded, hardness or dryness in the bread is not to be 
charged to the baking, but rather to an undue proportion of flour in the mixing*. The writer 
has carefully compared bread baked in the Aladdin Oven and bread baked in a gas oven, 
weighing the loaves before and after baking. The result showed almost exactly the same loss 
in weight, whether the loaves were baked in the Aladdin Oven one and one-half hours at a 
temperature that started at 860° F., or in the gas oven three-quarters of an hour at 400° F. 

This six months^ use of the oven for bread baking may be considered a fair test. It is 
greatly liked in the writer^s family, and the ordinary quickly baked bread is no longer 
satisfactory. 

SODA BISGUrrS, GEMS, ETC. 

Doughs of this character bake on the bottom with one shelf under in one-half to three- 
quarters of an hour. Short cakes are baked in the same length of time and afterward split 
ana filled. The thinner or drop mixtures made of wheat, rye, or corn, are baked in three- 
quarters to one hour in gem pans, which it is better to heat in the oven while the dough is 
being made. All breads mixed with water have been found to require a somewhat longer 
application of heat than those mixed with milk. 

GRAINS. 

In cooking mushes made from the coarsely ground grains, the oven will be found very 
valuable. The long, slow cooking needed for oatmeal, cracked wheat and corn in all its 
grades, from flour to hulled corn, is here easily performed without watching, or such an outlay 
for fuel as amounto to more than the food material is worth. 

Mix any of these grains with the same proportion of water, cold or hot, that would be 
used in the double boiler. Put into a covered cooker and keep on the oven bottom until the 
boiling point is reached, when it may be removed to the upper shelf to flnish cooking. For 
the ^' granulated " varieties an hour will be enough, for other kinds two hours or longer. 

Various trials have failed to show any difference in the taste of these mushes, whether 
they are put into hot or cold water. The only requisite seems to be that they be cooked long 
enough, and at some time in the process be brought to the boiling point. 

Rice. — A number of experiments in the cooking of rice in the Aladdin Oven has led to 
the conclusion that rice in order to be perfectly cooked must be put into boilinfr water, cnree 



THB 8CIBK0B OF HTUTKITIOK. 95 

parts of water to one of rice, and placed in the already heated oven to remain half an hour, 
or, if the quantity is large, somewhat longer. 

SOUP STOCK, 

The cook-books unite in prescribing a '' gentle simmer" as the proper thing in making 
soup stock, but the question how to maintain it for a number of hours on an open range 
has puzzled many a housekeeper. The water in the pot will too often be found either at a 
mad boil or entirely still, and the much peeping into the pot to see how matters are progress- 
ing dissipates the fine aroma that should be kept in the soup. Even an adjustable flame 
beneath the pot does not solve the difficulty, as the air is constantly cooling the sides and 
the top. Only in a steam bath or by the OTcn heat before referred to can the ideal result be 
obtained, and only small quantities can be conveniently so made. But the Aladdin Oven 
seems to meet all the requirements for soup making, and may be considered a great success in 
this line. It has been used in the New England Kitchen for a year and a half in making 
daily many gallons of beef broth of the best quality, and it is no less successful in making 
stock for the family soup. 

The meat and bones are put into cold water as usual, and the flavors may be added at 
the same time, as they will not be dissipated with this method of cooking. It is more con- 
venient to make soup when no other cooking is going on, as over night. If the quantity is 
large, the flame of the lamp should be kept at full height ; if small, turn the flame partly 
down, or use a smaller lamp. Time, six, eight or ten hours. When the stock has cooled 
and the fat been removed, it is an easy matter to season and re-heat the needed quantity each 
day in the oven. 

VEGETABLE AND FISH SOUPS. 

Requiring less tinfe, and having no fat to be removed, these do not need to be cooked 
the day beforehand, unless in the case of pease, and beans, that require five hours' cooking, 
and are improved by still more. The various chowders are all well cooked in the oven. They 
may be mixed according to any recipe, very little allowance being needed for boiling away. 

FISH. 

Sir Henry Thompson, in his lectures before the British Fish Commission some years ago, 
recommended baking as the best method for cooking all varieties of fish, and, since the heat 
in this case should be moderate, the Aladdin Oven has been found well adapted to this kind 
of cookery. 

The fish may be stuffed or not, but in any case should be well seasoned. Thin slices of 
pork should be laid over the fish to baste it, or it may be baked in a sauce. It has been 
found best to bake fish on the platter from which it is to be served, to retain all the juices, 
and it is better to bake on the middle shelf than on the oven bottom. In an already heated 
oven one hour will be sufficient unless the fish are very large. 

SCOLLOPED, OBEAHED AMD CUBBIED FISH. 

These various dishes, made of fish already cooked, are to be mixed in the dishes from 
which they are to be served, and placed in the oven until thoroughly hot. 



90 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



MEATS. 

Roasting. — So far the writer has not succeeded in producing a roast of beef that is satis- 
factory to those who demand the rare and juicy interior ; for this a very high degree of heat 
at the beginning of the process seems to be necessary. But a tolerable roast may be obtained 
by placing the piece of meat in a pan already heated and containing a little fat, and putting 
this directly on the oven bottom.* The upper surface must be spread with butter or fat to 
keep it from drying, and the meat must be turned over midway in the time. One hour and 
a half has been found sufficient for a small roast of two to three pounds ; two hours or more 
must be allowed for a large one. It is best to devote the entire heat of the oven to it and to 
first heat the pan before putting in the meat, using only enough fat to prevent the meat 
from sticking. * 

In roasting veal or pork, where the rare interior is not desired, the result is very satis- 
factory. Chickens and small birds are apt to become dried by the longer application of heat 
and less opportunity to baste. To avoid this they may be larded, and if the flavor of pork 
is disliked, it is the better way to steam them closely covered in a very little water, or to cook 
them in a well-flavored sauce, t 

BRAISING, STEWING, POT ROAST, 

are all well adapted to the oven, as also the cooking of corned and smoked meats, requiring, 
as they all do, a long application of heat somewhat under the boiling point. Reckoning 
from the time this is reached, it is only necessary to allow the number of hours required in 
the ordinary stove, but it is well to remember that none of these meats are easily over-cooked. 
In all cases the cooker should be tightly closed. 

RE-COOKED MEATS. 

There are a great number of dishes whose basis is meat already cooked, to which other 
ingredients and flavors are added in a sauce. The success of the dish depends on the slow 
heating that shall mingle the flavors without really raising the meat to the boiling point 
(which is also the toughening point for many kinds that have been once cooked), and for 
such work the heat of the ordinary stove is often too great. These dishes can be cooked on 
the bottom of the oven, with the tight shelf underneath, in three-quarters of an hour, or 
better above, allowing twice as much time. 

EGGS. 

It is now very generally understood that eggs should be cooked considerably below the 
boiling point to keep the white from becomiug horny and indigestible. This temperature is 
170° to 180° F. As a little more or less time in the process is of no consequence if this tem- 
perature is not passed, a little practice will make the Aladdin Oven of great use in this 
branch of cookery. 

Boiled Eggs.— Put the eggs in cold water and place in the oven until the water reaches 
180° F. Or, if inconvenient to test this, let the water flrst come to the boiling point, a half 

* Some slight changes made in the oven since these tests were applied have enabled simple rules to be zaade 
which have been given by the writer elsewhere, which may give a preference to this oven for roasting over any 
other appliance. Such has been the experience of very many persons in practice. 

* See instructions given elsewhere for box cooking. S. A. 



THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. iU 

pint for each egg, put in the eggd and remove the cooker from the oven, letting it stand for- 
five minutes. Or the proportion of water may be less and the cooker be left in the oven five 
or ten minutes, anyway to communicate the desired degree of heat to the interior of the eggs. 

Baked £QOS.—Break each egg into a buttered cup acd set the cups into a pan of water, 
which place in the oven till the whites become slightly opaque. These can be served on thin 
slices of ham that have meanwhile been frying in a pan on the oven bottom. Or the eggs 
may be baked on a stoneware platter previously covered with a layer of heated hash, rice, 
macaroni, asparagus, or whatever else may be desired. Make dents in this mound with the 
bowl of a spoon for the reception of each egg. 

Omelet. — Prepare as usual and cook for about five minutes in a pan on the bottom of 
the oven. Fold and serve. 

CHEESE DISHES. 

The various mixtures of milk, eggs, bread, etc., with grated cheese, as fondue, fondamin, 
and ramokins, are easily baked in the Aladdin Oven. The time must be suited to the size of 
each dish. 

VEGETABLES. 

Toung and tender vegetables, spinach, asparagus, pease and beans, com, tomatoes, 
summer squash, and half -grown beets should be steamed in a very little water rather than 
boiled. If the water in the cooker is first heated to the boiling point they will require, on 
the oven bottom, but little more time than ordinarily allowed. Or they can be put at once 
into the water to avoid again opening the oven. When they have once reached the boiling 
point they will finish cooking on the upper shelf in a somewhat longer time. 

Winter squash should be baked in its rind until tender, when the inside can be scraped 
out and seasoned. 

Beets, if full grown, will require two to four hours. 

Potatoes and macaroni, in which the starch constituent is large, should be kept for some 
time at the full boiling heat ; but it seems to make no difference with the result whether they 
are put into cold or hot water, or how long they are in coming to the boiling point. It is 
important, however, that they be taken out and drained when tender. They may then be 
kept hot in the oven for a considerable time without injury. If put into boiling water and 
kept on the lower shelf, the time is one-half to three-quarters of an hour, as on the ordinary 
stove. If then transferred to the upper shelf, more time must be given. 

It is important to know how to treat a vegetable so much used as is the potato ; by this 
method the result has always been good, and by no other way of cooking known to the 
writer will macaroni be so tender and increase so in size while remaining entirely unbroken. 
Potatoes may also be baked on the oven bottom in one to two and one-half hours, but the 
writer has not found this method always satisfactory in producing mealy potatoes. If placed 
directly on the bottom, they must be turned in order that they may bake evenly. 

CAKE. 

Oake has been snooeflsfoUy baked only on the lower part of the oven, with two shelves, 
interposed between it and the bottom. Patty pans and layer oakes bake in one-half to three- 



98 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITIOK. 

qnarters of an hour, cookies in less time, loaves require one and one-half to two hours. If small 
forms are used for baking the ordinary cake mixtures, and with the full heat of the oven, 
the result is satisfactory, but loaves are so long in rising that the cake has been found to be 
coarse-grained as compared with the same mixture baked in a gas oven a shorter time. For 
fruit cake and others requiring long, slow baking, the oven has been found to be well adapted. 

PUDDINGS. 

With puddings of all kinds the work of the oven has been very satisfactory; many kinds 
have been tried and without anything like failure. Especially good have been those puddings 
having a custard foundation, because the delicate curdling point is not so easily passed as in 
the ordinary oven; excellent also are all fruit and suet puddings and Indian puddings ; for 
these four to six hours must be allowed on the middle or top shelf. A custard pudding of 
medium size bakes in an hour. 

PIES. 

With pie crust, especially puff paste, the results have not been as good, as it seems to 
require high heat to make it light and reasonably wholesome. Not many experiments, how- 
ever, were made in this line, a baking powder crust baked as a short cake or rolled as in roly 
poly pudding being found so much more satisfactory to use with fruit or even with the ordi- 
nary lemon pie filling. 

FRUIT. 

« 
Any fruit, fresh or dried, may be cooked slowly in the oven, the longer the better, it 
would almost seem, from the surprisingly fine fiavor gained by some kinds, as apples and 
pears when cooked till they turn red. In all cases cook the sugar with the fruit. This effect 
has suggested that perhaps fruit is ordinarily not cooked enough. A longer application of 
heat may have a ripening effect, so to speak, that improves digestibility as well as fiavor. It 
is also an advantage that fruit can be thus thoroughly cooked and yet keep its form perfectly. 
Cranberries, two parts of water and one part sugar to four parts of fruit, cooked for two 
hours in a covered vessel, are very attractive in appearance and perfect in fiavor. 

Entire dinners cooked in the oven have required some planning, and a few specimen 
dinners will show how they may be managed. Oblong cooking vessels will best economize 
the oven space, but two of the ordinary round cookers, holding enough for a family of six 
or eight, can be placed on the bottom of the oven and two on the middle shelf for slower 
cooking, while the spaces between may be used for quart or pint cups, in which frait, etc., 
can be cooked, or for patty pans filled with cake, tarts or puddings. The estimated time for 
cooking is for <K>vered vessels. 

Dinner No. 1. 

Tomato Soup. Beef Stew, with Potatoes and Dumplings. 
Macaroni Gingerbread. Stewed Fruit. 

The lamp was lighted at nine o*clock for a dinner to be served at one, and at the same 
tdme on the middle shelf were placed materials for a tomato soup and the fruit to be stewed, 



THB SOIENCB OF NUTBITION. 99 

while on the lower shelf was pat a cooker, half filled with water, for the macaroni and 
another containing the beef stew. This dish was prepared as usual, little water t)eiDg 
allowed for boiling away, and each piece of meat was floured to give the right consistency to 
the gravy. The potatoes, being old, were first scalded to remove the strong taste, and they 
were then laid upon the meat. This stew was put in an iron pot with a close-fitting cover. 
The oven was then closed until twelve o'clock. When the macaroni was put into the cooker 
on the lower shelf, in which the water was found to be boiling, and the spaces between the 
cookers were filled with patty pans of ginger cake. A little before one o'clock the oven was 
opened to remove the soup, to drain and season the macaroni, which was then returned to 
the upper shelf to keep warm, and also to drop, in spoonfuls, on the stew the dumplings (a 
simple baking powder mixture); this was allowed to steam close covered for twelve minutes. 
This dinner required, besides the putting together of materials, which is the same in any 
case, only slight attention once between lighting the lamp and beginning to serve the dinner. 
This dinner was varied by using different meats for the stew, and by substituting for the 
macaroni any tender vegetables that were in season. Soup stock made the day before was 
heated on the upper shelf. 

DiNNXB No. 2. 

Pea Sonp. Boiled Tongue. 

Boiled Beets. Winter Squash. 

Baked Apples. Snet Pudding. 

As all these dishes required long cooking, they were prepared as far as possible the night 
before and put all together into the oven at seven or half-pa^t, when the lamp was lighted. 
The tongue and the pease (already soaked over night) were placed on the bottom with no 
shelf intervening, the other dishes above. The beets are supposed to be reasonably tender 
to begin with, not the withered variety of the late winter, which no amount of cooking will 
make really edible. 

This dinner was found very convenient when the entire forenoon was wanted for other 
work than cooking. It was varied by other dishes requiring the same long cooking, a half 
hour more or less making no difference in the result. Such dishes were: Boiled ham, hulled 
com, hominy and other coarse cereals, pork and beans, bean soup, etc. 

It may here be added that this preparation of the dinner as far as possible the night 
before, though the housekeeper may consider it a great innovation, often changes a hurried 
morning into a leisurely one and rescues the dinner from failure. 

Dinner No. 8. 

In dinners one and two the food was cooked at the temperature of boiling water or that 
slight degree above it due to the presence of various soluble constituents of food ; some of 
the food was even cooked below the boiling point. But if too much cooking is not attempted 
at once, the temperature of the oven may be brought to considerably over 800^, and even 800^ 



100 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

has been found to give to roast beef mnch of its characteristic flavor. Tho lamp was lighted 
at nine o'clock for a one o'clock dinner to consist of 

Tapioca Soap. Boast Beef (31b. to Sib.), with Yorkshire Pndding. 

Baked Potatoes. Stewed Parsnips. 

Cranberries. Bread Padding. 

The oven was allowed to heat for an hour and then the pudding and cranberries were 
put in on the oven bottom. At eleven o'clock the potatoes were put in also on the oven 
bottom, but with a tin under to keep from burning, and the cranberries and pudding were 
transferred to the upper shelf to finish. At the same time a pan containing some fat was 
put in to heat for the beef. The beef was put in at 11.30 below, as also the Yorkshire pud- 
ding above, in patty pans. The potatoes were turned, and the parsnips in a very little water 
were put on the lower shelf. The stock was set on the upper shelf to heat, and the tapioca 
put to cook in a cup. In three-quarters of an hour the meat was turned, the cranberries 
taken out, the parsnips put on the upper shelf in their place to finish cooking, thus making 
room below for the Yorkshire puddings, which need some of the bottom heat to make them 
brown. At one o'clock all was found cooked and ready. 

OTHER USES FOR THE OVEN. 

As A Water Heater.— In a family where the Aladdin Oven is used for cooking, the 
necessary heating of water for dish-washing, etc., can be done by filling the oven with pots 
of water as soon as the dinner is removed. It is better, however, to have a copper-bottomed 
tin boiler made to fit the entire oven space. Such a one will hold about eight gallons, and 
will be made by a tinsmith for $1.50. It should have a ring on the front side and one at 
each end to assist when it is drawn in or out. Have made, also, a wooden bench of the 
exact height of the oven bottom, and this placed in front of the opened door will make the 
removal of the boiler full of hot water, safe and easy even for one person. If properly man- 
aged, this boiler will heat enough water to do the washing for a small family. It can be 
heated over night for use early in the morning, and will be found nearly at the boiling point, 
though the lamp may have gone out some time before. Another boiler ful can be heated and 
removed in time to cook the dinner. 

This quantity of hot water will also bring the bath water for one person to the required 
temperature, and this method is certainly to be preferred in summer to heating the whole 
house with the kitchen range when the heat is not otherwise needed. 

It may be mentioned that it has been found to be an excellent plan in houses heated by 
a furnace to run a pipe from the water tank through the furnace, obtaining in this way an 
unlimited supply of hot water, day and night, during the winter. In summer a judicious 
use of the Aladdin Oven during the hours when it is not needed for cooking will go far 
toward supplying this want. 

As A Fruit Oanner. — ^The boiler above described is to be put to a use that will make it 
welcomed by any housekeeper in summer. Pat a layer of straw in the bottom to prevent 






THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITION. 101 

** bumping " and pack it full of glass f rait jars previonsly filled with fruit and hot syrup. It 
will hold eight of the quart size. Partly fill the boiler with water and let it remain in the 
oven till its contents have reached the boiling point, when the jars are removed and sealed in 
the usual manner.'*' 

In the case of com, pease and other vegetables requiring long cooking or re-cooking at 
intervals, the advantage is obvious, as the long-continued heat necessary for killing fermenta- 
tive germs and their spores can here be well maintained. 

Housekeepers often have opportunity to buy toward night perishable fruit very cheap, 
and would of tener do so djd it not necessitate sitting up half the night to can the fruit. 
It would seem that this method could easily be used ; it would only be necessary to refill the 
lamp in the morning and bring the fruit again to the full boiling point before sealing. 

The oven may be used in fruit canning without this boiler, the fruit and sugar being put 
into a porcelain kettle and kept there until thoroughly cooked. As there is no danger of 
burning, no water need be added. All fruit tried by the writer was perfectly cooked without 
being broken, only in the case of black raspberries the juice seemed to be too much drawn 
out of the berries, leaving them somewhat dry. 

Following the suggestion found in an old cook-book for preserving chemeb . '* Put them 
with the sugar into dose-covered crocks in an * afternoon ' oven (that is a gradually cooling 
oven), and keep them there for several hours, ^* a fine result was reached as to fiavor and* ten- 
derness, though the syrup required still further evaporation to reduce it to the jellying point 

Fob Drying Fruit. — If the tube in the top be raised to allow the free escape of steam 
the oven can be turned into a fruit dryer, the shelves being filled with plates of sliced fruit. 

Various other uses as a warming oven will be suggested to any housekeeper. It is better 
than a bain marie for keeping food warm after it is cooked, and the top of the oven gives 
exactly the right temperature for raising bread, a tin pot lid being placed beneath to prevent 
direct contact. Mary Hinman Abbl. 

Ann Arbor, Mich., September, 1891. 



* The writer has two tinned copper vesselB whfSh fiU the oven, one above another. In each of these, eight glatm 
jars, of the type known as butter- Jar, may be ponced— making sixteen at one charge. This method of saving 
tomatoes without subjecting them to a beat aboye 2O0P F. is especially recommended. ' B. A. 




ECONOMY IN FOOD MATERIAL. 



It is essential to gaining attention to methods by which great economy in food ma- 
terial can be secured to take cognizance of the demand of the community for a varied and 
appetizing diet. Few persons have strong enough will to limit themselves to a cheap 
diet of a monotonous kind which soon palls upon the palate. This branch of the science of 
nutrition has been dealt with in many cookery books in which instructions are given for 
preparing food at low cost on the ordinary stove or range. The methods of preparing 
such compounds vary more when the Aladdin Oven or a cooking box or bucket may be 
used than they do when the instructions apply to the highly-heated stove. 

There is one class of food materials to which no sufficient attention has ever yet 
been given in the northern section of this country, namely, the various grades of hominy, 
especially that coarse variety of hulled corn, cracked, which is known as hominy samp. 
Tliis is one of the most nutritious forms of grain and it is also one which can be made a 
medium for imparting or carrying flavors of various kinds into the compounds of which it 
may form a part. 

Almost any one who has paid any attention to the subject of nutrition knows that maca- 
roni may be eooked or combined in a great variety of ways forming a sort of base for a variety 
of flavors. Coarse hominy samp may be dealt with in the same way with very excellent 
results, using it as a base for conveying flavors to different compounds. Hominy may also be 
used as a base for absorbing nutritious fat so that there will be nothing gross or greasy in 
the compound. ^ 

But this coarse hominy samp needs to be cooked in the very reverse of macaroni. It 
must be soaked over night and even after being soaked it must be cooked at a moderate 
degree of heat for a very long time. It therefore lends itself to the processes of what I 
have called five-hour cooking, — a most convenient method for those who may leave their 
homes in the morning and may be glad to return five hours later finding a good, nutritious 
and appetizing dinner ready to be served without any attention in the interval. 

There are very many compounds of coarse hominy samp which may be cooked in 
this way. I submit the following recipes as well as some others which are dealt with in 
less time. 

No. 1. Soak half a pound of hominy samp all night Take one pound of breast of lamb; 
cut Into small pieces. Cut up one small onion. Season with salt, pepper, one flat teaspoonful of 
celery salt and a little Worcestershire sauce. Add one pint of water. Put into a crockery ves- 
sel, jar or bean-pot and cook five hours. 



THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 103 

No. 2. Take one-half pound of hominy samp; soak all night. Add one-half pound of 
prunes and a little spice, and sugar to the taste. Add one pint of water. Cook fire hours. 

No. 3. One-half pound of hominy samp soaked all night; one pound of cheap beef cut into 
cubes ; one small onion. Season to taste. Add one pint of water. Cook five hours. 

No. 4. One-half pound of hominy samp soaked all night ; one pound of any low-priced 
meat; one onion and any other vegetables — a quarter of a pound each — cut into small pieces 
Add one pint of water. Season to taste and cook five hours. 

No. 5. One-half pound of hominy samp soaked all night ; one pound of cheap veal ; half a can 
of tomato ; half a cup of grated cheese ; pepper and salt and, if a little more fat is desired, a little 
butter or chopped suet. No water required. Cook five hours. This b a very appetizing com- 
pound at very low cost. 

No. 6. One-half pound of hominy samp soaked all night ; one pound of tripe cut in strips ; 
one onion ; pepper and salt, tomato catsup or some canned tomato. Add a pint or less of water 
according to the amount of tomato used. Cook five hours: 

No. 7. One-half-pound of hominy samp soaked all night; one pound of veal or half of a fowl 
cut into small pieces ; one onion. Add one pint of water ; season with curry to taste. This is a most 
excellent and appetizing dish. Cook five hours. 

Pickled lambs' tongues may be substituted for the veal or the fowl. Breast of lamb 
cooked with the compound as before and then seasoned with curry is also very delicious. 

I will now give some compounds which may be cooked in less time as to a part of the 
materials. 

No. 8. One-half pound of hominy samp soaked all night, to be cooked five hours, seasoned 
with salt. At the end of three hours, place upon the samp half a pound of sausages. No water re- 
quired. Then cook two hours more. 

No. 9. One-half pound of hominy samp soaked all night ; to be cooked five hours with 
slivers of bacon. Add one pint or less of water. At the end of three hours add a half pound of 
liver. 

A half pound of hominy seasoned to taste, with vegetables of various kinds makes a 
good dish without any meat A similar compound with some salt codfish added is ex- 
cellent. Pigs* feet may be combined with any of these compounds. 

No. 10. One-half pound of hominy samp soaked all night; to be cooked five hours. At the 
end of three hours add apples quartered and sugar. This makes an excellent pudding. 

In fact the combinations of hominy — coarse hominy samp being preferred — maybe 
varied to any extent subject to the general rule that when combined with beef, meats or 
poultry the whole compound is to be cooked five hours, more or less, and when combined 
with articles like liver or sausage or apples, these elements may be added about two hoars 



104 THE 8CIENGB OF NUTRITION. 

before serving. The hominy will be softer if boiling water is put on for soaking — if a 
grainy condition is liked better, use cold water. 

I will now give a few recipes of the cheap kind which have proved to be excellent. 

Tlie cheaper parts of lamb, like the breast of lamb, the brisket of beef, some parts of veal or 
a tender chicken may be cooked two hours with celery, chopped, and a little pepper and salt 
added. When ready to serve add a little milk. 

Codfish, haddock or halibut prepared as for a chowder, with a little onion, very little salt 
pork, pepper and salt. Then add a pint of oysters without any water — the juice of the oysters 
and the fish will make a most excellent sauce. This requires about two hours or less according to 
the quantity. 

Cheap beef which requires long cooking may be put into a ja^ with a small quantity of 
oysters and oyster liquor, to be cooked four or five hours. About an hour l>efore serving add more 
oysters with proper seasoning. The flavor of the oyster is absorbed by the beef and the dish is a 
very appetizing one. 

P^ROM CORRESPONDENTS. 

GItEEN PEAS. 

Throw the peas into boiling salted water for three minutes to preserve the color. Dip out 
with a strainer and fill glass jars. Then pour cold water into the jars to expel every air bubble. 
Put in the Aladdin Oven, also a pitcher of water. Light the lamp and leave two hours. Then 
fill each jar with the hot water and seal. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Put the grapes into deep pitchers and place in oven at night with the lamp turned low. In 
the morning pour the clear juice into pint bottles. Do not press the grapes. Add a little sugar to 
each bottle. ' One teaspoonful to a cup of juice is enough. Put the bottles in the oven. Raise 
the wick and leave for two hours. Then fill up the bottles with hot juice and cork. When nearly 
cold drive in the corks tight with a hammer. This makes a refreshing and nourishing drink for 
an invalid or any one who is fatigued. As 'the juice is not fermented or mixed with alcohol the 
strictest total abstainer cannot object to it. After a bottle is uncorked it will keep several days 
in the refrigerator. This is very nice mixed half and half with Appolinaris. 

GREEN CORN 

A little too old to be boiled, can be made tender in the Aladdin Oven. Leave the inner husk 
on the ear and place in a hot oven on the upper shelf for twenty-five minutes. 

PEACHES, WHOLE OR HALVES. 

Pare the peaches and put in glass preserve jars, adding one tablespoonf ul of sugar to every 
two peaches. Pack the jar full — blanch two peach kernels and place on top. Put oq the cover, 
but do not screw down. Place in the oven, light the Rochester lamp- wick one and one-half inches 
in diameter, and leave for two hours with an easy conscience sure that it will not scorch. At the 



THE SCIENCB OF NUTRITION. 



105 



end of this time take out the jars in which the fruit will have 8et(4e.l, leaving room for about two 
more peaches and juice. It is well to fill a pitcher with peaches and the same proportion of sugar, 
and put in the oven with the jars, as it is easier to fill up the hot jars quickly from a pitcher. Fill 
to overflowing and screw covers on tight. Keep in a cool place. There will be a little undissolved 
sugar in the bottom of each jar. If the jar is laid on its side for a few days this will dissolve, or 
may be obviated by putting a tablespoonful of water in each jar before filling with fruit. 

It is well to place one of the perforated shelves on the bottom of the oven, and then place a 
large meat pan on that, to hold the jars, because, if one is prevented in any way from taking out 
the jars at the end of two hours the juice may run over, but the fruit will not be injured if it cooks 
four hours. 

Any fruit can be cooked in the same way. 

Add a little vinegar and a little muslin bag of spices to each jar and you have a nice sweet 
pickle. 

DAUB, A CREOLE DISH. 

Eight pounds of beef, make incisions into it, put in strips of pork, a small piece of onion 
and garlic if you like it, sak and pepper. Put it away for several hours, then pour over it a pint of 
vinegar ; let it remain over night, then cook four or five hours in the oven in a sauce-pan nearly 
full of water. When cooked, remove ; dissolve an ounce of gelatin in a little cold water, pour over 
the meat and put all in a mould. 

Lentils. 

T liave lately investigated the use of lentils — a food material which is of the great- 
est value where meats are expensive or in hot climates where they are not commonly 
used. As a source of nitrogen the lentil is almost unequalled among vegetable foods ; 
and at the prices prevailing in Egypt, Southern Europe, and even in Boston, Mass., it is 
sometimes claimed to yield the greatest amount of food value for the price that can be 
found. 

The composition of the lentil, is as follows (Church's '* Food Plants of India " ) : 





In 100 parts 


Water ..... 


11.8 


Albuminoids .... 


25.1 


Starch . . ... 


58.4 


Oil 


1.3 


Fibre 


1.2 


Ash ...... 


2.2 



100.0 



German lentils are deemed the best, and may be purchased of Park & Tilford, New 
York ; or of Cobb, Bates & Yerxa, Boston. Italian and Sicilian lentils are sold by P. 
Pastene & Co., Fulton Street, Boston. I have imported from Egypt the small red lentil* 
of , which Esau's mess of pottage purports to have been made. 



106 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 



Professor Church recommends soaking a short time in cold water with a little com- 
mon soda, as they are sometimes said to contain a little bitter principle which is removed 
by the soda. I have not found any trouble from this cause. 

We use them habitually in my own family and in my office kitchen as a stock for a 
vegetable soup, as a puree corresponding to black beau soup and sometimes baked with 
pork. 

I recommend as seasoning, the use of Nepaul pepper and a dash of sherry wine. 

LENTIL VEGETABLE 80UP. 

Half a cup of lentils soaked over night, one carrot, one parsnip, one turnip, one small onion 
or other vegetables. Cut up small. Cook three hours. Season with salt and black pepper and a 
little butter, or with salt, Nepaul or Paprika pepper and sherry wine. 

T lately made a contract with an incredulous lady that I would ^ve a perfectly satis- 
fying, ample and nutritious lunch to six persons, adults, in four courses, at a cost of not 
exceeding thirty cents, or ^ve cents per lunch, at the ordinary retail prices of the provi- 
sions. In the test it proved that in three of the four courses there was enough for eight 
I relied to some extent upon lentils in this experiment The lunch was served in the fol- 
lowing order : 

Soup, made from one quarter pound of Sicilian lentils costing . $.01 

Three-quarters of a pound of mixed vegetables, chopped fine . . . .02 

I'ne lish course consisted of one pound of the nape of halibut . . .06 

Potatoes, a little skimmed milk and salt ...... .01 

The entrde consisted of breast of lamb, one pound .... .05 

Rice, one-eighth pound ........ .01 

Curry powder ......... .01 

The desert, bread-and-butter pudding, made of stale bread, a handful uf stoneless 

raisins, sugar and a very little milk •••... .05 
The bread served, brown bread made of rye, Indian and whole wheat — and white bread 

made by the continuous process. I computed the quantity of bread consumed at .02 

One cup of tea or coffee to each person, computed at . . . . .06 

Total, ..... S.30 

The continuous process of bread making is experimental. I think it will become a 
perfectly simple art It consists of mixing the sponge either with the bread kneader or in 
the usual way. It is then placed in the pan in which it is to be baked, which in this case 
was a thin aluminum pan. On a metallic table over the two and one-half inch hole I 
placed a slab of soapstone with legs half an inch high — the slab being one inch in tliick- 
ness. Upon that I placed the pan. I then put over it a box made of non-heat-conduct- 
ing material quarter of an inch thick, known as salamander, in which I had two windows, 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 107 

one on each side, with a thermometer so adjusted as to read the heat outside while the bulb 
was within. Under the hole in the table I placed a lamp with a very small flame like tlie 
smallest type of night lamp. The heat within rose to 100® F. The bread appeared to 
be raised in five hours. I then withdrew the small lamp and placed underneath the hole a 
lamp of considerable power. In three hours the bread was thoroughly baked. It was of 
close texture, of tawny yellow color and had a very sweet, nutty flavor. Had I used a 
lamp of higher power for the baking, the work would have been done in an hour and a half 
or two hours, and the bread would have been ordinary white bread. 

AN EXCELLENT FLOUR. 

For making good bread, flour made by the " Cyclone Process," so-called, has re- 
ceived the highest commendation in £ngland. The wheat is ground by the attrition of 
one grain against the other. It is not heated and the full flavor is retained. Although 
the mechanism by which this work is accomplished was invented in the United States for 
the reduction of ores, it has only been applied to the preparation of wheat in England. 
This flour is therefore not readily available in this country. A flour of corresponding 
merit, rich in flavor, of full nutrition and of most excellent and uniform quality, is made 
by Mr. L. H. Hyde, of Joliet, 111. One variety, rich in the germ gluten and phosphates 
of the wheat, may be commended for its fine flavor and its extremely nutritious properties. 

There are many errors prevailing in regard to bread as well as to flour. The re- 
moval of the germ in very fine flour takes away a most valuable element, both in flavor 
and in nutrition. The coarser ground flour of the ordinary kind which will not make 
absolutely white bread, is nevertheless much better than the very fine flour. The different 
varieties which are made by Mr. Hyde can be used in illustration of these facts. Doubt- 
less similar qualities are made by other millers, but from him I have obtained the most 
complete information, and for that reason I name his products. Baking bread at a high 
heat sends off a pleasant smell and impairs the flavor in proportion as the heat is exces- 
sive. 



ADDENDA. 



-♦♦- 



Since I first tried to put the Aladdin Oven into the market in a tentative 
manner, after having spent two or three years and a good deal of money in convincing 
myself that it represented a fact and not a fad, I have had a very interesting 
experience in partially overcoming inertia, especially the inertia of woman. If I 
were anything bat a man of facts and figures, I might write a very amusing article 
upon '' Great Expectations/' as illustrated by the demands of those who are not 
satisfied when I propose to roast in perfection a twenty-eight-pound sirloin of beef 
or a thirty-pound saddle of venison,* over a single Pittsburgh lamp of the 
common type. 

In addition to what I promise I have been asked if I could not warm the 
kitchen, heat all the bath water, and run an incubator so as to hatch the broilers as 
well as cook them, and do a great deal of other work with the lamp ! In fact, when 
I have declined to undertake anything more than to do pretty much all the cooking 
for a family of eight or ten people with one lamp, some of my correspondents have 
responded as if they thought I had raised false expectations by naming the Oven 
" Aladdin/' 

About 400 people have risked twenty-five dollars each on the experiment in the 
purchase of an Aladdin Oven. I have yet to hear of the first real failure, although 
there have 'been some difficulties in overcoming the prejudices of the cooks. About 
every other cook takes to the oven at once, and finds in it great satisfaction and 
saving of labor. The others object more or less to its adoption in the family and 
fail in making any satisfactory use of it except upon compulsion. 

One very cultivated woman who prefers to do the work of her small family 
herself, has written to me that "it adds much to the enjoyment of her life to be able 
to give little dinners or suppers to her few chosen friends, without being obliged to 
serve roasted mistress as the first course." 

From the sale of ovens thus far made, I might have already recovered the cost of 
my experiments, had it not been for the contribution of a number of ovens for 

*NoTB.— One of my friends in Bng^land who dwells In a great ancestral hall, In which the roasting for many 
generations has been done before an open wood fire, in an open tin kitchen in which a historic tnmspit keeps the 
roast turning round and round all the time until it is done, now roasts his own pheasants, venison and four- 
year*old grass-fed mutton, in the Aladdin Oven in preference to the old method. 



THE SCIEifCE OF K0TRITION. 109 

 

charitable purposes. One of the priyileges which I find to be connected with such 
a common-place invention as this^ is that one is expected to give an oven to all the 
charity hospitals and the like. Yet I have made a profit corresponding to the lesser 
half, if I may use the expression, of what I have spent, and I am now expending 
this profit in experiments on the Workman's Cooking Pail or Shop GirFs Oven. I 
beg pardon, I mean an oven for the use of Sales Ladies. 

I feel now assured that I shall be able to perfect the Workman's Cooking Pail 
with a lamp attached, all in one piece. This pail may be charged with about two 
pounds of food of two kinds at one time, and is so constructed that it may be easily 
carried by the bail in the hands of the workman to the place of his work. The 
little lamp may then be lighted so that a hot'dinne'r will be ready at noon with a hot 
pot of coffee. 

I have already succeeded in making a cylinder oven to be placed upon a tin table, 
which can be charged with three to five varieties of food, amounting to about eight 
to ten pounds at one time. In this I have also succeeded in baking good bread. 
In this pail a breakfast for several people can be cooked during the night. A mid-day 
meal can be in process of cooking while the sewing women or sales ladies are absent 
at their work. The supper can be warmed over, and the water boiled for the pot of 
tea in the evening. Bread can also be baked in the evening. 

HEATING WATER FOB HOUSEHOLD USE, ETC. 

The oven is intended to be used /or coohhig, but directions have been given for 
warming water on the top. An apparatus for heating water with a second lamp, or 
for making tea and coffee, or for washing dishes, can be purchased at a low price at 
any of the shops where common kerosene oil stoves are kept for sale. Water for 
circulation throughout a house, must be heated from the water-back of the 
cooking stove, range, or furnace. If I were to build another house, I should attach 
the apparatus for heating water to my furnace for winter use, and I should place a 
small water-heater alongside for summer use, as before stated. The kitchen stove 
which might then be required for warming the kitchen, would be a very small affair, 
of which the top could be fitted for frying, for boiling water in the tea-kettle 
and for some other purposes. 

The merit of the Aladdin Oven — if any it possesses — as a substitute for about 
nine- tenths or more of the work of the range or stove, is: 

1st. In the saving of food rather than of fuel. 

2nd. In saving excess of heat and half the work. 

3d. In savinc: the fine, natural flavors : food cooked a second or even a third 



110 THB 8CIBN0B OF KUTBITION. 

time being generally as appetizing as when first served^ and in some instances even 
more so. 

The Oven may be offered as a very complete substitute for a cooking stove in 
summer houses when hot water for circulation through the house may not be re- 
quired. 

The best measure of the expenditure of oil which I have been able to make, was 
during the summer of 1889, at my summer place on Buz.zard's Bay. We have used no 
coal for two or three years. A little wood from my wood-lot was burned a part of the 
day in the cooking stove for laundry purposes and the like. The cooking and the 
lighting of the household for one hundred days were both doiie in 1889 with seven 
dollars' worth of kerosene oil, boQght in parcels of five gallons each, at fifteen cents 
a gallon. I computed the average number of persons, ten ; number of meals, 3,000 ; 
cost of fuel per meal, about a quarter of a cent or less. I do not, however, consider 
the economy of fuel as of any importance compared to the economy in the use of 
the food- material, and the quality of the result of the application of heat under abso- 
lute control, in yielding appetizing, nutritious and wholesome conditions. 

OAEB OF LAMPS. 

The great trouble with many of the kerosene lamps is, that in the effort to 
make them at a low cost, they are slightly or badly made ; therefore they are apt to 
get out of order. If the demand for these Ovens should increase, special lamps may 
be made to meet the special conditions of their use. 

Lamps should be kept clean — the burners and wick-holder especially — ^^else they 
will not develop their full power and the food will not be sufficiently cooked in the 
allotted time. I may name the Pittsburgh lamp as one which can be easily kept 
clean and in good order. 

There is a new burner and also a new wick about to be put into the market 
which will probably obviate almost all the trouble and difficulty in the use of 
the lamp. 

A stove lamp or heater to be used as an auxiliary may now be found on sale at 
the stores of the Central Oil Stove Company in New York, Chicago, and in Boston, 
at 78 and 80 Washington street, which is made like the lamps for illumination, 
having a central duct, with a circular wick, assuring a practically perfect com- 
bustioa The smallest lamp of this type has a wick about eight inches in circum- 
ference ; it is fitted with an iron chimney, upon the top of which a considerable 
quantity of water can be kept hot or made to boil ; frying by immersion in hot fat 
can be done upon it, and other work which it is not expedient to put into the Oven. 



THE 8CIEKCB OF NUTRITION. Ill 

• 

The Central Oil Stove Company now represents a combination of nearly all the 
makers of the common kerosene oil and gas stoves. These stoves may be very useful 
aaxiliaries where the main dependence is put upon the Aladdin Oven. They may 
do their kind of work in their way extremely well. They are, however, subject to 
the passage of the heat and the products of combustion of the lamps directly into 
the receptacles where the food is placed, which receptacles are ventilated. They 
may, therefore, taint, scorch or dry the food, in the same way that it may be 
affected in the ordinary iron stove, unless the work is closely watched. 

The point of distinction in the Aladdin Oven as compared to all others, is that 
the heat may not be raised by the common lamp which is used with the oven of the 
Standard size, to any point which will be likely to scorch the food, if ordinary care 
and common sense are applied in putting the food into the oven. The heat will 
not then be sufficient to distill the fine flavors and send them off in bad smells, while 
the oven is not ventilated, except when it is used for boiling, because the humidity 
derived from the food itself make the very best atmosphere in which it can be 
suitably cooked. 

Much larger stove lamps of the type named may enable me to make Aladdin 
Ovens of larger sizes, on which experiment I am now engaged. The Standard size 
is, however, quite large enough for the average family. 

Any intelligent women who can put into this oven the requisite one part of 
gumption and one part of food, may nourish themselves adequately, changing the 
bill of fare every day, at not over one dollar a week for the cost of the food and fuel, 
including the tea and coffee. 

With the aid of Mrs. E. H. Sichards, bills of fare for seven days, twenty-one 
meals, have been computed which contain all the requisite elements of nutrition in 
due proportion, to cost from one dollar to one dollar and a half per week. These 
dietaries have been given elsewhere. 

In Part II will be found a report made by Mrs. Mary H. Abel, the successful com- 
petitor for the Lomb prize of $500, offered by the American Public Health Associa- 
tion, whose treatise may be ordered from N. D. C. Hodges, No. 874 Broadway, 
New York. 

A '.so f report made by Miss Maria Daniell, an experienced teacher of cooking, 
whose woi'k was more specifically directed to the invention of recipes and methods 
of seasoning for box cooking in the oven or pail, which may be adjusted to the 
period of five hours without requiring any attention in the interval ; that being the 
customary period of a morning's work between the hour of beginning and the 
dinner hour. 



112 THE SCIBNOB OF NUTBITIOMT. 



THE ALADDIN KITCHEN. 



The ideal cooking laboratory which I contemplate adding to my house on the 
north side^ next the present kitchen^ will perhaps be built in the following manner : 
Excavate for basement six feet below surface, lay drains inside and outside the wall, 
fill up one foot with broken stone covered with asphalt concrete. Lay stone wall 
to surface in cement, and four feet above with brick laid in cement, inside course of 
fire brick. On this wall lay hard pine timbers (vulcanized) five feet on centers, which 
may be painted at once without danger of dry-rot. Lay floor of three-inch spruce, 
grooved and splined. Finish ceiling between the timbers with plaster board with skin 
coat of King's Winslow cement. In this basement place a water furnace for heating 
the house in winter, a water heater to heat water for circulation in summer and for 
laundry purposes, and fit up for laundry. One window to be fitted for the escape 
of flies. 

THE KITCHEN OR LABORATORY. 

Upon the cellar or basement wall as described build a superstructure of three- 
inch vulcanized spruce plank, grooved and splined. Cover in with roof of the same, 
resting on vulcanized timbers five feet on centers, covered outside with shingles laid 
over mortar. Inside finish : Between the roof timbers lay plaster board one inch 
thick finished with cement plaster ; on the inside of the plank lay on porcelain 
tiles or lay up vitrified brick ; lay floor of tiles laid in cement very slightly pitched 
toward one corner where there will be a scupper for the escape of water. All 
corners rounded so that there may be no right angles in the room. 

This structure will be constructed on the principle of slow burning construction 
of heavy timber aud solid wooden walls and roof, in the study of which the first 
conception of the Aladdin Oven arose. Solid wood or thick slabs of incombustible 
wood pulp are the best available non-heat conductors for use in building cook- 
ing laboratories or ovens. By avoiding the ordinary cellular construction which 
is set up by the masters of the art of combustible architecture we avoid the hidden 
spaces in which rats, mice, cockroaches and fire have free way, and by using thick 
wood and shingles laid over mortar we are free from the dampness and chill which 
are generated by walls of brick or stone. In the thick solid plank roof we avoid the 
customary attic, which serves as an oven in summer and a refrigerator in winter. 
We also keep our pepper and mustard pots on the sideboard instead of using them 
as models for the decoration of a crazy roof in the " Qneen Anne Style. ^' 

The advantage of this method of construction and finishing is that the cleaning 
may be done with warm water containing a little kerosene oil forced through a hand 
pump to every part of the room, then wash down with cold water. 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTBITIOIT. 113 

Windows : AJl of customary type save one. The window on the east to be a 
fly escape. 

THE FLY ESCAPE. 

This window consists of two sashes placed in reverse of the customary method, 
the top sash inside, the inner sash so made of wood nearly flush with the glass and 
bevelled to an even point so that the flies which always walk upward on a vertical wall 
or window may walk out without obstruction. In order to promote the escape of 
flies especially in the early morning when the rising sun attracts them, lower the 
upper sash to nearly the middle of the glass in the lower sash ; which should be a 
single plate — of course there would then be an open space between the two plates ; 
draw down and fasten a dark green curtain to the same point, held so close that the 
flies cannot get behind the curtain ; close the blinds at all the other windows. Flies 
are early risers and always desire to pay their libations to the morning sun ; it is 
a work of charity to give them an opportunity. They are also very intelligent; 
they will go to the lighted window pane, walk upwards to the open way between 
the two sashes and then depart. A few perverse ones may remain, and for them a 
breakfast of fly paper may be laid in front of the window. 

LABOBATOBT FITTINGS. 

On the north side, next th*e outer door opening into a porch, place a Ghase 
Refrigerator, so arranged that the ice can be washed on a platform outside and put 
into the ice receptacle from without. The refrigerator will be in the northeast 
comer, next the fly-escape window. In the southeast corner will be the door 
opening into the pantry, which is now connected with the present kitchen. In fly 
time the pantry door will be left open at night so as to open the way for flies to go 
to the fly escape. At the left of the outer door on the north side will be a large 
marble table or wide shelf with one marble shelf above. On this table all food will 
be prepared. It will be very slightly pitched to the rear and toward one end, and 
will be protected at the back by a concave strip of marble attached with cement. 
At one end will be a water-tap, at the other a scupper hole of large size, through 
which all refuse may be washed into an open removable bucket. 

At the westerly end will be open shelves of vulcanized hard wood for dishes 
and other apparatus, beneath and a little above the floor level a platform for metal 
ware protected with sheet copper. No doors and no cupboards will be placed against 
the inside or south wall. A small iron heater with four holes for cooking vessels on 
the top and a place for a hooded grill ventilated into the chimney, to be heated with 
charcoal or coke if gas is not available. Next, a tin-lined copper boiler with hooded 



I 



114 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION, 

escape for steam above it^ to be heated by gas. Next^ a Case Bread Baiser. Next, 
a suitable gas or kerosene stove. Finally as many Aladdin Ovens and Cooking Pails 
as may be required for use in Laboratory practice. One for roasting meats. One 
for cooking vegetables^ stewing or simmering. One for baking bread. 

At this point ends the first lesson in the Science of Nutrition which has been 
developed in a purely empirical manner by the undersigned, 

EDWARD ATKINSON. 
Brookline, Massachusetts, U. S. A., August 1891. 

June, 1895. 

In the last foui: years I have continued my desultory and empirical practice, and have 
come to the conclusion that the scientific cooks (and, may I venture to whisper it, some of 
the teachers of cooking as well), are governed by the same conditions that affect other 
branches of science, moving from simple ways and crude methods to complex ways worked 
out with troublesome apparatus and great waste of time and attention. The end is not 
reached until we get rid of the complex apparatus and return to simple rules, with the 
same and often better results. I have taken many complex recipes from various standard 
cookery-books, of which the materials seemed appetizing, then disregarding all the instruc- 
tions for separate treatment, I have put these materials all together into a jar or pan — 
sometimes closed, sometimes open — then, placing the compound in the oven, I have 
trusted the lamp to do the rest. The results have almost always justified my confidence, 
often very much to the surprise of very skilful cooks. I cordially reconunend many of the 
recipes for such experiment, which will be found in the " Creole Cookery Book," edited by 
the Christian Woman's Exchange, New Orleans, T. H. Thompson, printer, 36 Natchez 
Street 

I will give the details of but one experiment out of many. Returning home one day, 
at the time when I was testing a glass oven, I found on the table the cold remnants of the 
family lunch. Two bones of sirloin steak with some of the tough flank attached ; some 
cold baked potatoes ; a little cold meat soup ; green remnants of celery ; two or three slices 
of cold toasted bread, very dry ; a little cold macaroni. I called upon the cook to slice two 
small onions and one turnip. I then went to the sideboard, mixed some Paprika (Hunga- 
rian) pepper, salt and ohve oil, with a little sherry. I went to the closet, where I found a 
large vegetable dish in which Smyrna raisins had been kept, of which there was perhaps 
a greatspoonful left — these I left in the dish. I then put these materials together (nearly 
all of which would have been wasted), added hot water enough to cover, dredged in a little 
flour, and stirred up the compound. The whole process took ten minutes. I then placed 
the covered dish under the glass oven, and left the lamp to do the rest in five hours. The 
result was a potage of which every scrap except the bone was consumed with hearty ap- 
proval. 



ADDITIONAL SUGGESTIONS. 



H • II 



I now desire to make a few additional suggestions for overcoming the partial failures. 
This undertaking must now be made to pay those who make the ovens in a commercial 
sense if it has come to stay. Otherwise it must be left to the same fate that befell Count 
Rumford*s efforts. Upon Litely reviewing his works more fully than I had before, I find 
that I have been led by the logic of the case to become an unconscious plagiarist even in 
my statements, while I have only applied in practice the rules which he laid down more 
than a century ago ; we now possess advantages in materials for the construction of ovens 
and in liquid and gaseous fuel which he did not possess. I can claim no scientific knowl- 
edge of my own, but may perhaps possess a fairly scientific method in putting into practice 
the ideas and rules which my scientific friends have so freely imparted to me. 

Suggestion No. 1. — I may attribute some partial failures to raicQ the heat in the 
oven to a point that will crisp and brown the fat of beef and give an jcsthetic appearance 
to the basting of fowls, to the possibility that in some of the earlier ovens the packing of 
loose material which is interposed between the plate of indurated fibre and the metal lining 
of the outer oven may be shaken down in the course of transportation, so that the non- 
heat-conduction of the upper half of the oven has been insufficient — this danger has since 
been guarded against. In such cases, cover the top and sides of the oven half way down 
with a *'cosey " made from an old blanket or felt tablecloth. 

This liiflliculty can be overcome by the use of a more powerful lamp. Unfortunately 
there is no lamp between the common lamp carrying a wick one and a half inches in 
diameter and one fitted with a wick three inches in diameter, which I call the " Jumbo " 
lamp. One of the very best types of this latter kind (as well as other most excellent 
varieties) is made by the Pittsburgh Brass Co., and is sold under the name of *' Mammoth." 
With this lamp the work of the oven can be done as quickly and as effectually as in the 
highly heated oven of the iron cooking stove, but it calls fcr judgment and discreti'^rj in 
its application else the same injurious effects of high heat will result. It may be worked i 
at full power at the beginning and then lowered for the continuance of the work of cook- 
ing at a less temperature. 



116 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

r 

Suggestion No. 2. — The heating and cooking power of the common lamp can be 
increased by diminishing the size of the opening in the bottom of the outer oven thiough 
which the heat passes, from four inches to two and a half inches, so as to leave only a 
space of about one-quarter of an inch around the top of the lamp chimney, which must be 
placed as close to the opening as is consistent with the clear burning of the lamp, free 
from smoke. 

This can be done by placing the plate of sheet iron now sent in each oven against the 
back of the outer oven when slipped under the inner oven, so as to bring the two-and-a 
half-inch opening in the middle of the four inch hole. 

The objection to this smaller opening is that when the door of the outer oven is sud- 
denly or quickly closed it forces all the air down the chimney and puts the lamp out For 
that reason I adopted the larger opening in making the ovens, which is so large as not to 
be liable to this annoyance, but it also admits more cool air. A very small space around 
the chimney top suffices for the escape of the products of combustion, and the smaller the 
space the more effectual the retention of the heat in the oven. 

Suggestion No. 3. — Place the oven out of the way of currents of air. Their ill 
effect is not so much in cooling the surface of the oven as it is in forcing too much cool 
air into it through the four-inch opening over the lamp. 

Suggestion No. 4. — Those who have not the Case Bread Raiser will find that 
yeast bread may be raised by placing the dough in a covered pan upon the top of the 
oven when it is in use for other purposes. Under ordinary conditions, the sponge will 
bo ready for baking in three to four hours. 

Suggestion No. 5. — Those who are content to wash dishes in tepid water im- 
pregnated with a very little kerosene oil, may warm all the water required in a vessel made 
of tin fitted on the bottom with a tube closed at the end that will pass down into the inner 
oven about half way, through the ventilating orifice from which the cap has been re- 
moved. I do not find this ventilator necessary in the processes of cooking, but it is con- 
tinued for this purpose and for the convenience of those who desire to make use of ther- 
mometers in experimental work. Suitable thermometers can now be supplied at a cost of 
three dollars. 

This ventilator also serves to render the browning of meats more certain if it is 
opened half an hour before the food is served. 

I recommend washing silver or plated ware, especially knives with ivory, bone, or 
composition handles, in cold water with a dash of kerosene oil in it. .Injury to knife 
handles may, I believe, be mainly attributed to washing them in hot water with soap. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 117 

Suggestion No. 6. — Very slow night cooking can be done with the greatest as- 
surance of safety, and total freedom from liability to smoke, by procuring a suitable hand' 
lamp fitted with a Trench burner, from Jones, McDuffee & Stratton, Boston and Chicago. 
This truly scientific burner gives absolute assurance that the oil in the font will not be heated 
sufficiently to make it more volatile wliile it is burning. The lamp may be suddenly ex- 
tinguished when burning at full height, the chimney removed, and the lamp lifted by taking 
hold of the metal wick holder between the thumb and finger. This invention will soon be 
applied to the central due* or round-wick lamps by which the power and steadiness of the 
flame will be much increased. 

The fiat-wick lamps are now for sale with wick ranging from half an inch to one and 
a half inches in width. More heat is generated by the duplex- wick holder. 

The wick for slow work in the Standard Oven should be the one-and-a-half-inch size, 
which fits the B and D Collars — D wick. A duplex burner of one-and-a-half-inch wicks 
is also made, which gives nearly as much heat as the central duct lamp. 

HEATING THE KITCHEN OR OTHER PARTS OF THE HOUSE. 

The main objections which have been made to the introduction of the Aladdin Oven 
into the kitchen of the average household is that since a stove must be made use of to heat 
the room and to warm water for washing dishes and for circulation for bathing purposes, 
that same stove may as well be applied to the processes of cooking. This reasoning is 
bad if I am justified in saying that no iron stove can be made suitable for scientific cook- 
ing, and to this radical proposition I adhere. 

My reply to the other objection is as follows : Hot water is not necessary to washing 
dishes. I have given instructions for the use of tepid water with kerosene oil for the re- 
moval of grease from dishes — a more effective and better process-cleaner in every respect 
than washing with hot water and soap. 

If hot water is wanted in moderate quantities it can be readily supplied by plachig an 
auxiliary kero ene-oil stove of the ordinary type, that can be bought for a very small sum, 
alongside the Aladdin Oven. The apparatus for circulating hot water through the house 
can be as well attached to the furnace in the cellar as to the range, and if hot water is re- 
quired during the summer it will be found to be an advantage to have it heated in the 
cellar by a small heater alongside the furnace, which will tend to keep the cellar dry and 
to promote a circulation of air in it. But I should not impart all the information that I 
ought to in this treatise if I did not name a new method of heating any room in any part 
of the house by what is now known as the St. Louis Heater, invented by one of my neighbors 
in the town of Brookline, Mr. William S. Stuyvesant, to whom missives may be sent ask- 
ing for circulars, diagram and description, or to Box 3170, Boston. 

This heater consists of two or three central-duct kerosene oil lamps combined in an 



118 THE SCIENCE OF. NUTRITION. 

apparatus by which the products of the combustion of the lamps are carried outwardly 
while the outer air is heated on the way into the room. It can be placed in any window 
anywhere, and the heater of two lamp power will warm a room of ordinary size. A heater 
of tliree-lamp power will warm a large room. I have no interest in this heater. When I 
first heard of it I thought Mr. Stuyvesant must claim more than he could substantiate, but 
I have adopted the heater in my own library in preference to every other method. 

The furnace heat is shut off in winter in the middle of the afternoon, the room is aired 
and the lamps are lighted pending my return. The room is heated during the evening 
with sufficient warm outer air. The preference of the family for that room is marked 
over any other in the house. 



PART II. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



The scientific part of this work will now be presented. In the first part mj 
own experience has been given. I first recognized the profound relation of the 
food qaestion to all the processes of industry as the most important element in 
social science when dealing with it many years since in a yery practical way. It 
became incumbent on me to make life easier for a very large number of factory 
operatives who were employed in a large but isolated factory which was under my 
charge, on whom a population of about 2500 depended at a time when we were 
forced by the high and variable prices of cotton, and by the fluctuations of 
depreciated paper money to run only four days a week. In this way I was gradually 
led from theoretic and mainly statistical observations to attempt to give a practical 
direction to this work. 

It may have been observed that at the beginning of my study of cooking it was 
somewhat difficult to overcome a certain grotesque aspect which was presented by 
the gray-haired manager of factory and insurance company when converted into 
a cook, fully equipped with an apron and white cap presented by the children, to 
whom also it was in some senses grotesque; but when the chuck-end of beef that hadn't 
been cooked long enough to become tender and appetizing, was served for dinner, it 
did not seem so funny. The same grotesque aspect became more apparent when my 
friends whom I invited to dinners or suppers, somewhat unconsciously exposed their 
incredulity, effusively remarking that they had either eaten very heartily and had 
spoiled their appetites during the day, or else had wholly omitted to lunch so as to be 
in possession of such a good appetite as would enable them to devour the victuals. 

Yet more amusing and sometimes very grotesque have been the interviews with 
many most excellent and utterly incredulous ladies, who have come to my office in 
the apparent expectation of meeting some one who would be a sort of combination of 
Quack Doctor and Head Steward of a hotel. In such interviews it has sometimes 
been very difficult to maintain a demeanor of dignified courtesy and attention at 
the risk of very undue hilarity. I have often been reminded of a remark of 



120 THE SCIENCB OF NUTRITION. 

Artemns Ward, or one of his type, that ^^ there is a great deal of human nature in 
men, likewise in some women. '^ 

The time of semi-apology on the part of a man who had thus rashly iniraded 
the domain of woman has passed and i'j gives me the greatest satisfaction to 
introduce the truly scientific work of the women who have come to my support. 

If any one can name another important line of investigation in which any 
elderly gentleman of an inquisitive disposition, whose early education in 
** Amusement considered as a force in Christian Training," (See Four Discourses 
by Rev. Marvin B. Vincent; Troy, William H. Young, 9 First street, 1867,) had been 
very much neglected, may get as much actual fun afi I have in the development of 
this oven and in the correspondence and interviews connected with it, it may be 
an aid to digestion to indicate the line on which some one else may work. I have 
not yet found the other end of this line on which I am working. 

In order that those who will take the pains may have the means to carry on this 
undertaking, certain tables are subsequently given which may be considered 
approximately correct, but the student will find them suggestive only until a well« 
equipped 

COOKING LABOBATOBT 

ehall be established, in which the positive rules of the Science of Nutrition may be 
more fully established. 

The reports of Mrs. Abel, Miss Daniell and Mrs, Bichards are based on most 
valuable tables, prepared by themselves or by Prof. William 0. Atwater to whose 
courtesy I am indebted for permission to reprint his work. The reader may be referred 
to the articles in the Century Magazine for a most valuable and complete treatment 
of matters which lie at the very foundation of this science. 



FOOD POWER. 



We maj regard food as the element of life upon which the power of man to 
Bustain himself wholly depends. Anything else can be spared^ food cannot be. 
Again^ if the measure or quantity of food is not saj£cient and is not rightly adjusted 
to the conditions of complete nutrition^ both the manual and mental efficiency of 
man will be impaired. If the force which is generated by the assimilation of food 
is not adequate to the complete support of the workman^ he will become incapable 
of making the product out of which his wages are paid in sufficient measure to re- 
supply himself for the subsequent efforts necessary for the maintenance of his 
productive power. Life is a conversion of f orce, and if the force or food power 
supplied to the man is inadequate or incomplete, the right conversion of force can- 
not go on. 

It will be found that the rates of wages in different countries vary as the supply 
of food is abundant or scanty. As a matter of fact we find that the rate of wages 
is highest, or in other words the effective earning or productive power of man is 
greatest in the United States, where the supply of food is most abundant. Austra- 
lia and New Zealand may also be named as places where a small population is able 
to produce for itself the most abundant supply of food and where the wages or 
earnings are very high. 

Next in the abundance of the food supply comes Oreat Britain, and in Oreat 
Britain again we find the highest rate of wages outside of the United States and the 
British Colonies already named. 

Next in order follow Holland, France, Oermany, Belgium, Italy, Austria, and 
Russia in Europe. In each of these countries, in the order named, the supply of 
food lessens as compared to the other; either because the land is poor or is cultivated 
without the best mechanism, or because a very large share of the product is 
diverted for the support of great armies so that the remainder becomes insufficient. 

Finally, when we pass into Asia we find the supply of food only equal to a 
bare subsistence and correspondingly very low rates of wages prevail. How far one 
factor may be taken as an antecedent or consequent of the other will not be discussed 
in this treatise. 

This reference to the very far-reaching nature of the food question with which 
we are dealing, is made only as an introduction to the following tables and statements 



122 THE SCIEKGB OF NUTRITION. 

which have been prepared and selected by Mrs. Ellen H. Bichards in order to show: 
First, why food is reqnired; Second, how much is needed; Third, of what it shoald 
consist; Fourth, at what cost it can be procured; and Fifth, how to tell when 
enough food of the right varieties has been consumed. 

Mrs. Richards deals with the subject in the following terms, incorporating tables 
from different sources: 

The animal body is a living machine, capable of doing work, — raising weights, 
pulling loads, and the like. The work of this kind which it does can be measured 
by the same standa^rd as the work of any machine, i. e. by the mechanical unit of 
energy — the foot-ton. The power to do mechanical work comes from the consump- 
tion of fuel, the burning of wood, coal or gas; and this potential energy of fuel is 
often expressed in units of heat or Calories,* a Calorie being nearly the amount of heat 
required to raise two quarts of water one degree Fahrenheit. The animal body 
also requires its fuel, namely food, in order to do its work or its thinking or even 
its worrying. 

But the animal body is more than a machine, it requires not only fuel to enable 
it to work, but to live even without working. About one-third of the food eaten 
goes to maintain its life, for while the inanimate machine is sent periodically to the 
repair-shop, the living machine must do its own repairing day by day and minute 
by minute. Uence it is that the estimations of the fuel and repair-material needed 
to keep the living animal body in good working and thinking condition are, in the 
present state of our knowledge somewhat empirical, but it is believed that within 
certain wide limits useful calculations can be made by any one willing to give a little 
time and thought to the subject. Our knowledge may be rapidly increased if such 
study is made in many localities and under many varying circumstances. 

To afford a stimulus to such study the following tables are given as illustrations 
only of what may bo found in the various works on the chemistry of food and 
nutrition. The student is especially referred to the articles by Professor W. 0. At- 
water in the Century Magazine for May, June, July and September, 1887, and 
January and May, 1888. By the courtesy of the publishers with the consent of the 
author several of the subsequent tables have been copied from these articles. 

*A Calorie la equiTalent to aboat 1.68 foot-tooa. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 123 

QUANTITY OF FOOD NEEDED DAILY IN ORDER THAT THE HUMAN 
BODY MAY KEEP ITSELF IN GOOD WORKING CONDITION. 

PAges 123-144 and 147-149 are mostly qunte<1, with Plight alterationn, from articles by Professor Atvater, In Vol. I 
of *' The National Medical Dictionary " aud •• The Ceuiury ** magazine, 1887 and 1888. 



WAYS IN WHICH MATERIALS ARE USED IN THE BODY. 



Protein forms tissue (muscle, tendon, etc., and fat) and serres as fuel, 
Fats form fatty tissue (not muscle, etc.) and serve as fuel. 
Carbohydrates are transformed into fat and serve as fuel, 



Yield energy in 
form of heat 
and muscular 
strength. 



Alcohol does not form tissue, but does serve as fuel, 1 Have various ao- 

Tea and coffee (thein, caffein) do not form tissue, do not serve as fuel, I tions upon 

Extractives (meat-extract, beef-tea) do not form tissue, do not serve j brain and 

fuel, I nerves. 



In being themselves burned to yield energy the nutrients protect each other 
from being consumed. The protein and fats of body-tissue are used like those of 
food. An important use of carbohydrates and fats is to protect protein (muscle, 
etc.) from consumption. 

STANDARDS FOR DAILY DIETARIES FOR PEOPLE OF DIFFERENT CLASSES. 

The demands of different people for nutrients in the daily food vary with age, 
sex, occupation, and other conditions, including especially the widely-differing 
characteristics of individuals. The standards in table IV., herewith, are intended 
to represent, roughly, the needs of average individuals of the classes named. Nos. 
1, 3, 4, 5, and 6 are as proposed by Voit and his followers of the Munich school of 
physiologists, and are based upon observations of quantities actually consumed in a 
considerable number of cases. Nos. 7 and 8 are by Voit, and based both upon 
quantities consumed by individuals under experiment and upon observed dietaries 
of a much larger number of persons in Germany. Nos. 9, 10, and 11 are by Play- 
fair, and are based mainly upon observations of actual dietaries in England. No. 
2 is calculated by the writer from the data and results used in Nos. 1 and 3. In 
Nos. 12, 13, 14, and 15, by the writer, the data of Voit, Playfair, and other European 
observers are taken into account, but the conclusions are modified by the results of 
studies of a considerable number of dietaries in the United States, where people, 
wage-workers especially, are better fed, do more work, and receive higher wages. 



124 



THE 8CIENCB OF ITUTBITION. 



Table IV.* 



STANDARDS FOB DAILY DIBTABIBS FOB PEOPUB OF DIFFKBENT GLASSES. 



1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

U 

12 

18 

14 

15 



Children to li years 

Children 2 to 6 years 

Children 6 to 15 years 

Aged woman 

Aged man 

Woman at moderate work, German . 
Man at moderate work, German . . 
Man at hard work, German .... 
Man with moderate exercise, English 

Active laborer, English 

Hard-worked laborer, English . . . 
Women with light exercise, American. 
Man with light exercise,! American . 
Man at moderate work, American . . 
Man at hard work, American . . . 



KUTBIKKTS. 




Potentlai 










energj. 


Protein. 


FatB. 


Carbohydrates. 


Total, 
grains. 




grams. 


grams. 


grams. 


calories. 


28 (20 to 36) 


87 (30 to 45) 


75 (60 to 90) 


140 


765 


55 (36 to 70) 


40 (85 to 48) 


200 (100to250) 


295 


1420 


75 (70 to 80) 


43 (37 to 50) 


325 (250 to 400) 


443 


2040 


80 


50 


260 


390 


1860 


100 


68 


350 


518 


2475 


92 


44 


400 


536 


2425 


118 


156 


500 


674 


3055 


145 


100 


450 


695 


8370 


119 


51 


531 


701 


3140 


156 


71 


668 


795 


3630 


185 


71 


568 


824 


3750 


80 


80 


300 


460 


2300 


100 


100 


360 


560 


2815 


125 


125 


450 


700 


8520 


150 


150 


500 


800 


4060 



One pound aTolrdnpoiB— 458.6 grami. One ounoe— 88.8 grams. 



Table V. 



OOMPABISOir OF DISTABIB8 FOB OOBPULBNCB WITH OBDIKABT DIETASnCS. 



DlBTARias. 



Banting system 

Ebstein system 

Playf air's Ftandard for *' subsistence diet " 

Play fair's standard for ad alts with moderate exercise . . . 

Volt's standard for laboring- man Rt moderate work 

Writer's standard for man with light exercise 

Writer's standard for laboring-man at moderate work . . . 
Poor sewing-girl, London ; diet barely sofficient for subsistence. 

University professor, Germany, yery little exercise 

Well to do ramlly. Conn.; food actually eaten 

Mechanics and factory operatives, Mass.; food purchased . . 
College students, from northern and eastern U. S.; food jL 
actually eaten 1 1I. 





NUTBIKXTS. 




Protein. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Total. 


grams. 


grains. 


Ktams. 


m 

grams. 


171 


8 


75 


854 


l(hi 


86 


47 


884 


67 


14 


841 


412 


119 


61 


631 


701 


118 


56 


600 


674 


100 


100 


860 


560 


1S5 


125 


450 


700 


58 


88 


816 


402 


100 


100 


940 


440 


1S8 


177 


466 


771 


187 


186 


581 


844 


138 


164 


62S 


9H 


104 


186 


421 


661 



Potential 
energy In 
nutrients. 



calories. 
10r5 
1400 
1760 
8140 
80M) 
2816 
8520 
1820 
2836 
4060 
4480 
4885 
8415 



* Several of the Century tables are omitted, but the same numbers are retained, 
t Or woman with moderate work. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



125 



ACTUAL DIETARIES OP DIFFERENT CLASSES OF PEOPLE. 

Tabic VL gives the quantities of nutrients and potential energy in a number 
of observed dietaries. The figures for European dietaries are mostly by Voit and his 
followers in Germany^ and by Playfair in England. The American figures are by 
the writer; those for the army and navy rations are based upon the United States 
Regulations, the rest upon observations of actual dietaries.* 

Table VL 

NUTBIENTS AND POTEITriAI. BKBBGY IN DIETABIBS OF DIFFEBENT PEOPLE. 



Mtnpean and Japanese dietaries: * ' 

1. Sewinfr-girl, London— waives 08 ots. (Ss Od.) per week .... 

2. Kactory-girl, Lelpsio, Germany— wages $1 21 per week .... 

8. Weaver, England— time of. scarcity 

4. Under-fed laborers, Lombardy, Italy— diet mostly vegetables . 
5 Trappist monk inoluister; very little exercise— vegetable diet . 

6. Students Japan 

7. University professor* Munich, Germany; very little exercise . . 

8. Lawyer. Munich 

9. Pbyslcians. llunich 

10. Painter. Leipsio. Germany 

11. Cabinetmaker, Leipsic. Germany 

12. " FuUv-fed " tailors, England 

IS. ** Well-paid " mechanic, Munich, Germany 

14. Carpenter. Munich, Germany 

15. " [lard-worked " weaver, England ... * 

16. Blacksmith, England 

17. Miners at very severe work, Germany 

18. Brickmakers (Italians at contract-work), Mudioh 

19. Brewery laborer. Munich; very severe work— exceptional diet . 

SO. German sol iiers, peace-footing 

21. German soldiers, war-footing 

22 German soldiers, Franco-German War; extraordinary ration . , 

U/Utid States and Canadian dietaries: 

28. French Canadians, working people, in Canada 

French Cinadlans, factory operatives mechanic!, etc., in Mass. . 

other factory operatives, mechanics, etc., Mass. 

Glassblowere. East Cambridge 

Factory operatives, dressmakers, clerks, etc.. b*rd*g-house. Mass, 



24. 
25. 
26. 
27 

28a 

28&. 

29a. 

296. 

80a. 

80&. 

81. 

82. 

88. 

84 

15. 

86. 

87. 



WelUo^o private family f f SSd Sfi^n"^ 



I 
r 



Food purchased 
Food eaten . . 
Food purchased 
Food eaten . . 



College students from northern and 
eastern States; boardinK-club. two 
distaries of the same club . . . 

College foot-ball team, food eaten . . . 

Machinist. Boston. Mass 

Brickmakers, Middletown. Conn 

Te}imst«>r8. marble-workers, etc., with hard work; Boston, Mass. 

Brickmakers. Mass 

U. S. army ration 

U S. navy ration 



NUTBIBNTS. 



Protein. 



109 
118 

m 

96 
114 
199 
128 
161 
188 
116 
104 
181 
182 
222 
254 
180 
120 
148 



Fats. 



grams. 


grams 


53 


88 


52 


68 


60 


28 


82 


40 


68 


11 


97 


16 


100 


100 


80 


125 


181 


96 


87 


69 


77 


67 


181 


89 


151 


64 


181 


68 


151 


48 


176 


71 


188 


118 


187 


117 


2S8 


118 


114 


89 


184 


68 


167 


285 



109 
204 
186 
182 
160 
188 
177 
204 
184 
168 
186 
292 
254 
263 
868 
866 
161 
184 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



grams. 
816 
801 
898 



469 
488 
240 



827 
866 
466 
626 
479 
494 
622 
667 
684 
676 
909 
480 
489 
881 

627 
649 
681 
481 
628 
467 
466 
680 
622 
460 
421 
667 
617 
758 
8S6 
1150 
454 
520 



Total. 



gnuDS' 
40^ 
406 

.486 
484 
548 
551 
440 
427 
558 

sss 

600 
686 
684 



816 
914 
880 
969 
1245 
688 
681 
778 

745 

871 

844 

706 

786 

779 

771 

1045 

944 

788 

601 

lOSO 

1058 

1248 

1448 

1695 

785 

847 



Potential 
energy of 
nntnents. 



calories. 
1820 
1940 
2188 
2192 
2804 
2848 
2844 
2401 
2762 
2600 
2757 
8068 
8066 
8104 



4117 
4195 
46il 
6692 
2798 
8006 
4662 

8622 
4682 
4428 
8590 
4002 
4146 
4088 
6846 
4327 
8874 
8417 
6742 
56.% 
6464 
7804 
8848 
8851 
4996 



^Comparison of the data of tables lY, V., and YL Implies that the food of people in this country is apt to be 
considerably in excess of the demands for nourishment. The excess is made up largely of meats, especially of 
the fatter kinds, and of sweatmeats, inolnding sugar. 



standards for Daily Dietaries and Actual Dietaries of People of Different Classes. 

WEIGHTS OF NUTRIENTS AND CALORIES OK ENERGY IN NUTRIENTS IN FOOD PER DAY. 



PKOTBIN. 

Lean oi meat, cavein of 

milk, white of eifg, 

Ifluten of wheat, etc. 



KATS. 

Fatty and Oily 
Matters. 



CARBOHYDRATES. 
Sugar, Starch, etc. 



POTENTIAL BNSRCY 
Fuel Value. 



Nutrients, Grams. 



Potential Emergv Calories. 



DIETARY STANDARDS. 

Subsistence diet (Play fair) 



Man at moderate work (Voit) 

Man at hard work (Voit) 

Man with moderate exercise (Playfair). 

Man with light exercise (Atwater) 

Man at moderate work (Atwater) 

Man at hard work (Atwater) 



ACTUAL DIETARIES. 

Under-fed laborers, Lombardy, Italy 

Students, Japan 



Lawyer, Munich, Germany 



Physician, Munich, Germany 

Well-paid Mechanic, Munich, Germany 



Carpenter, Munich, Germany. . 
Well-fed Blacksmith, England. 



German soldiers, peace footing. 
German soldiers, war footing . . 



French-Canadian families, Canada. 



Mechanics and factory operatives. Mass. 



Well-to-do family, Conn. 



College students, Northern and Eastern States. 



Machinist. Boston, Mass. 



Hard worked teamsters, etc., Boston, Mass. 



U. S. Army Ration, 
U. S. Navy Ratio i . 



W. O. Atwater. 



ISo" 



m 



00 6|00 800 lOlOO ISiOO 14|00 16|00 

00 



l O i OQ 20 (00 80}00 40|00 fiOlOO GOfOO 70 




i I I 




KTW-'^'-- ^-1 




'^■^ - »- I  - - -—  I  » » « J 



) - 



i 



 - HJ ^ ■■■■-■■ , -■'■. . . I  I .  »  . . I 

 I I  M" i y .'.''..     .■ .  . .  ■— -t^.^ 

y— »■  . . I . . . . ^  ! - .-^'^=*' 

I ■.■■.,... J  J . . « . . . , v « kM 



^ 



I T 



r   I -'- ' -  



 ^*  ^^^■^»  ^^w 



^ 



T-y-_ — , — ^,*-^ -r- 



l*!5!S* 



tl 



i^gg^i 



•"^ - ^* ^ - ^ ^ S ^ ^ y ^ 



"•'T- r T 



I " ^ y ^ j a 

33 



00 80 



1 . » , 1 A ^AJJ- ' ^ * ? 



S=* 



j_. — 1-., ,-. — ;_ — -_J 



--r~rv — ^T- 






53 






,  I ..r 






I 

J 



National Medical Dictionary* 
Reprinted by consent. 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF SOME COMMON FOODS. 



*-'- « 



Nitrogenous. 



Proteids. 




Water. 



Ash, etc. 



attHyfiiiiit.' iim 



Carbohydrates. 

«— ■» 



Starch. 



Sugar. 







Fats. 




Butter 

Cabbace • 

Potatoes 

Bacon 

AtilK ••••••••••••• 

Bread (rye) 

Bread (white) 

Rice •••••« •••••••• 

ClaxDS* ••.•*.•••••• 

Crackers (Boston) 
vvneat •.....*••••* 

jSfK firs •■■••«••••■••* 

Indian Meal 

Beef, Average — 

Oatmeal 

Mutton • •  

Ham 

Mackerel 

Bluefish. 

X ripe ..••■■•••■■• 

Fowl 

Beans. . . . 

Peas 

Cheese . . 



!••■•■•••• 



«•••■••• 



Proteids 40 lbs. 

Starch, etc... x.oo " 
Fats 40 '* 



Salts. 



.xo 



It 




ToUl 1.90 lbs. 



Computed and Drawn by Mrs. Ellbn H. Richards. 



128 THB SGIBKGE OF IsTUTKITIOK. 

COMPOSITION OP SOME POOD MATERIALS PEOM WHICH THIS 

SUPPLY IS DERIVED. 

Bt Pbofessob W. 0. Atwatbb. 

COMPOSITION, DIGBSTIBILITY, AND POTENTIAL ENEBGY (PUEIi-VALUE) OF FOOD- 
MATEBIALS, FUNCTIONS OF NUTBIENTS, DIETABT 8TANDABD AND ACTUAL 
DIETARIES. 

The following tables and explanatory statements are an attempt to epitomize 
some resnlts of late research, a considerable portion of which have not yet become 
current in treatises in English.* Those regarding digestibility, potential energy, 
and functions in nutrients are based upon experimental inquiry in Europe, espe- 
cially in Germany. The data employed for the Tables of dietary standards and 
actual dietaries are mainly European, but include a considerable number of results 
of obseryations in the United States. The figures for the composition of food- 
materials are taken from American analyses. The larger number of the latter were 
executed in connection with investigations in behalf of the Smithsonian Institution 
and the United States Pish Commission, but still await detailed publication. 

INGBEDIENTS OF FOOD-MATEBIALS — NUTBIENTB AND NON-NUTBIBNTS. 

Our ordinary food-materials such as meat, fish, eggs, potatoes, wheat, etc. 
consists of — 

Refuse, as the bones of meat and fish, shells of eggs, skins of potatoes, and 
bran of wheat. 

Edible portion, as the fiesh of meat and fish, white and yolk of eggs, wheat 
fiour. 

The edible substance consists of — 
Water, 
Nutritive inqrediente or nutrients. 

The principal kinds of nutrient 

1. Protein; 

2. Fats; 

3. Carbohydrates; 

4. Mineral matters. 



•See uticlM on th« ChemistiT of Foods md Nntritloii in the OuUurf MoffoHne tot imFTnA IBSB. 



THB 80IBNCB OF NUTBITION. 



129 



Water, refase, and the salt of salted meat and fish are called non-nutrients. 
The water contained in foods and beyerages has the same composition and prop- 
erties as other water; it is, of course, indispensable for nourishment, but is not a 
nutrient in the sense in which the term is here used. In comparing the values of 
different food-materials for nourishment, the refuse and water are left out of account. 



CLASSES OF NUTBIENTS. 



The following are familiar examples of compounds of each of the four prin- 
cipal classes of nutrients: 



Protein. 



a. 



b. 



Fats. . . 

Carbo- 
hydrates. 

Mineral 

matters. 



\ 



Albuminoids: e. g. albumen (white of eggs); casein (curd) of 
milk; myosin, the basis of muscle (lean meat); gluten of 
wheat, etc. 
Oelatinoids: e. g. collagen of tendons; ossein of bones, which 
yield gelatin or glue. 

(Meats and fish contain very small quantities of so-called 
'^ extractives.^' They include kreatin and allied compounds, 
and are the chief ingredients of beef-tea and meat-extract. 
They contain nitrogen, and hence are commonly classed with 
protein. 
.0. g. fat of meffikt; fat (butter) of milk; olive oil; oil of corn, wheat, 
etc. 

< e. g. sugar, starch, cellulose (woody fiber). 

J e. g. calcium phosphate or phosphate of lime; sodium chloride (com- 
( mon salt). 

It is to be especially noted that the protein compounds contain nitrogen, while 
the fat and carbohydrates have none. The albuminoids and gelatinoids are fre- 
quently classed together as proteids. The term ''proteids'' is also used to include 
all the nitrogenous ingredients — i. e. synonymous with protein. The average com- 
position of these compounds is about as follows: 



Oarbon, 
Hydrogen, 
Oxygen, 
Nitrogen, 



Proteixi. 


Fftts. 


CarbohydratM. 


58 per cent 


76.5 percent 


44 per cent 


7 •* 


12.0 " 


6 ** 


24 ** 


11.5 «* 


50 " 


16 *• 


None. 


None. 


100 per oeiit. 


100.?p«veent 


100 per cent 



230 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



POTBNTIAIi ENERGY OF FOOD. 



In being consumed in the body as fuel to famish heat and mnscnlar energy the 
nutrients appear to replace one another in proportion to their potential energy, 
which is accordingly taken as a measure of their fuel-value. The energy is esti- 
mated in Calories. The Calorie is the heat which would raise a kilogram of water 
one degree centigrade (or one pound of water about four degrees Fahrenheit). A 
foot-ton is the energy (power) which would lift one ton one foot. One Calorie cor- 
responds to 1.53 foot-tons. A gram of protein or a gram of carbohydrates is 
assumed to yield 4c.l, and a gram of fats 9.3 Calories. A given weight of fats is 
thus taken to be equivalent in fuel-value, on the average, to a little over twice the 
same weight of protein or carbohydrates. The figures for potential energy in Table 
I. are calculated for each food-material by multiplying the number of grains of 
protein and of carbohydrates in one pound (1 lb. equals 453.6 grams) by 4.1, and 
the number of grams of fat by 9.3, and taking the sum of these three products as 
the number of Calories of potential energy in a pound of the material. 

In the preparation of the fifth edition of several thousand copies of this book which 
is to be placed in a large portion of the Public Libraries of the United States, mainly 
through the liberality of Mr. Andrew Carnegie, it has become expedient to substitute the 
latest tables of the potential energy which may be derived from all common varieties of 
food material. These tables have been prepared by Professor William O. Atwater and 
are printed in the Year Book of the Department of Agriculture for 1894. They are sub- 
stituted for tables of the same kind which were given in the previous editions, pages 131 
and 132. To these tables are added Professor Atwater's latest diagram of the relative 
values of various food materials and a new diagram of the purchasing power of ten cents. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



131 



HUMAN FOODS. 

THE FUEL VALUE OF FOOD, 

Heat and muscular power are forms of force or energy. 

The energy is developed as the food is consumed in the body. The unit commonly 
Qsed in this measurement is the calorie, the amount of heat which would raise the temper- 
ature of a pound of water 4? F. 

The following general estimate has been made for the average amount of potential 
energy in 1 pound of each of the classes of nutrients : 

Calories. 

In 1 pound of protein 1 ,860 

In 1 pound of fats 4,220 

In 1 pound of carbohydrates 1,860 

In other words, when we compare the nutrients in respect to their fuel values, their 
capacities for yielding heat and mechanical power, a pound of protein of lean meat or albu- 
men of egg is just about equivalent to a pound of sugar or starch, and a little over two 
pounds of either would be required to equal a pound of the fat of meat or butter or the 
body fat. 

Table A. 

COMPOSITION OF BIFFERBNT FOOD MATERIALS — REFUSE, WATER, NUTRIENTS — AND FUEL VALUE 

PER POUND. 



Food Materials. 



Animal foods as purchased. 
Beef: 

Neck 

Chuck 

Slioalder 

Shoulder clod with bone 

Whole rib 

Loin 

Sirloin 

Porter-hooBe 

Rump i 

Round 

Flajik 

Hind Shank 

Liver 

Heart 

Tongue 

Drlt^dbeef 

Corned rump 

Corned flank 

Corned and canned 

Tongue, canned 

Tripe, pickled 



Num- 
ber of 
speci- 
mens 
ana- 
lyzed. 



14 

19 

8 

2 

17 

11 

10 

4 

IS 

17 

11 

12 

3 

2 

1 

6 

8 

2 

7 

2 

2 



Refuse 

(bones, 

skin, 

shell, 

etc.) 



Pound. 
0.27 
.15 
.17 
.13 
.21 
.15 
.10 
.12 
.20 
.00 
.04 
.55 



.06 
.12 



.04 



Edible Portion. 



Water. 



Pound. 
0.47 
JS3 
.55 
.57 
.44 
.62 
.54 
.53 
.45 
.62 
.54 
.31 
.70 
.63 
.64 
.51 
.60 
.44 
.54 
.46 
.88 



Nutrients. 



Total. 



Pound. 
0.26 
.32 
.28 
.30 
.35 
.34 
.36 
.35 
.35 
.30 
.42 
.14 
.30 
.37 
.87 
.49 
.34 
.44 
.46 
.00 
.13 



Pro- 
tein. 



Pound. 
0.14 
.16 
.16 
.17 
.13 
.15 
.17 
.15 
.14 
.18 
.17 
.09 
.22 
.16 
.17 
.32 
.16 
.12 
.27 
.20 
.10 



Fat. 



Pound. 
0.11 
.15 
.11 
.12 
.21 
.18 
.19 
.19 
.21 
.11 
.24 
.04 
.06 
.20 
.18 
.07 
.16 
.29 
.16 
.26 
.01 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates. 



Pound. 



ao2 



.01 



.01 



Miner- 
al mat- 
ters. 



Pound, 
0.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.004 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.10 
.03 
.03 
.04 
.04 
.002 



Fuel 

yalue 

of 

one 

pound. 



Cal'res. 
730 
940 
760 
830 
1,140 
1,030 
1.100 
1,075 
1 130 
780 
1,335 
355 
665 
1,160 
1,085 
886 
035 
1.460 
1,170 
1,475 
260 



132 



THE SCIBNCB OF NUTRITION. 



Table A. — Continued. 



Food Matrriaui. 



Animal foods cu pvrchated.— Continued, 
Veal: 

Shoulder 

Gbnok 

Flank 

Loin (chops) 

Leg (outlet) 

Liver 

Mutton : 

Neck 

Loin (chops) 

Shoulder 

Hind leg 

Pork: 

Chuck 

Sparerib (chops) 

Smoked i^oulder 

Smoked ham 

Bacon 

Salt pork 

Pork sausage 

Bologna sausage 

Frankfurt lausage 

Poultry : 

Chicken 

Fowl (old hen) 

Turkey 

Fish. etc. : 

Fresh cod, dressed 

Fresh mackerel, dressed 

Blueflsh 

Shad, whole 

Smelts, whole 

Lake trout, drc^ssed 

Bed snapper 

Halibut, sections 

Fresh salmon, dressed 

Salt cod a 

Salt cod, boned b 

Salt mackerel, dressed c 

Canned salmon d ,. 

Oysters, solids 

Long clams, solids 

Round clams, solids 

Rggs with shell 

.Lard and cottolene 

Oleomargarine 

Dairy products : 

Milk 

Skim milk 

Butter 

Cheese, whole milk 

(?heese, skim milk 



AnimaXfoodty edible portion. 
Beef: 

Neck 

(ybuck 



Num- 
ber of 
sped- 
mens 
ana- 
lysed. 



2 
6 
6 
10 
7 
1 

10 

16 

9 

16 

2 

10 
4 

14 
8 
7 
6 
6 
6 

1 
1 
1 

3 
1 
1 

7 
2 
1 
2 
8 
1 
2 
1 
1 
3 
4 
4 
1 
4 



SO 
8 



Refuse 

(bones, 

skin, 

shell, 

etc.) 



Pound. 
.17 
.19 



.18 

.61 



Ediblb Portion. 



.26 
.14 
.22 
.18 

.18 
.16 
.14 
.13 
.09 
.08 



.38 
.43 
.32 

.30 
.41 
.49 
.50 
.42 
.35 
.49 
.18 
.24 
.25 



.33 



.12 



Water. 



Nutrients. 



Total. 



Pound. Pound. 
JUl .26 



.60 
.67 
M 
.29 
.74 

.42 
.41 
.45 
.52 

.42 
.46 
.37 
.38 
.20 
.14 
.44 
.60 
.58 

.46 
.38 
.46 

.50 
.44 
.40 
.36 
.46 
.45 
.40 
.62 
.51 
.40 
M 
.28 
.62 
.87 
.86 
.86 
.63 



.11 

.87 
.90 
.11 
.,34 
.46 



.64 
U0 



.22 
.33 
.26 
.10 
.26 

.83 
.46 
.32 
.31 

.40 
.39 
.49 
.49 
.72 
.78 
.56 
.40 
.42 

.17 
.19 
.23 

.12 
.16 
.11 
.15 
.12 
.20 
.11 
.20 
.26 
.18 
.24 
.32 
.37 
.13 
.14 
.14 
.25 



Pro- 
tein. 



.89 

.13 
.10 
4K) 
.67 
.66 



•36 
.37 



Pound. 
.17 
.16 
.19 
.16 
.08 
.21 

.12 
.13 
.13 
.16 

.14 
.14 
.13 
.07 
.11 
.04 
.12 
.19 
.21 

.15 
.11 
.16 

.11 
.11 
.10 
.09 
.10 
.12 
.10 
.16 
.15 
.16 
.22 
.15 
.20 
.06 
.09 
.07 
.13 



.Ql 

.04 
.04 
M 
.26 
.31 



.20 
.18 



Fat. 



Pound, 
.09 
.06 
.13 
.09 
.02 
.04 

.20 
.31 
.19 
.16 

.26 
.26 
.33 
.38 
.57 
.69 
.40 
.17 
.17 

.01 
.07 
M 

.002 
.Oi 
.01 
.06 
.01 
.07 
.01 
.04 
.10 
.004 
.003 
.16 
.16 
.C>2 
.01 
.004 
.12 
1.00 
.85 

.04 
.01 
.85 
.36 
.17 



.16 
.18 



Car^ 

bohy- 

drates. 



Pound. 



Miner- 
al mat- 
ters. 



Fuel 

value 

of 

one 

pound. 



Pound. Cal'res. 



.01 

.001 

.004 



.06 
.02 
.04 



.004 



.01 

.01 

.01 

.«1 

.004 

.01 

.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 

.01 
.01 
.03 
.04 
.04 
.1*4 
.02 
.04 
.04 

.01 
.01 
.01 

.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 

.•t 

.01 
.01 
.02 
.02 
.01 
.01 
.H3 
.03 
.01 



.03 



.05 


.01 


.06 


.01 


.01 


.03 


.02 


.04 


.02 


.04 



.01 
.01 



675 
610 
896 
670 
236 
660 

1,060 

1,660 

1,026 

910 

1,336 
1,300 
1,626 
1,726 
2,610 
2,995 
1,946 
1,080 
1,110 

330 

610 
560 

206 
300 
206 
375 
280 
610 
206 
466 
676 
316 
425 
910 
1,036 
2f« 
240 
215 
720 
4,221) 
3,606 

326 

180 

3,615 

2,0ri5 

1,315 



1,006 
1,105 



a Salt, 17.2 per oent. b Salt, 21.6 per cent. e Salt, 7.1 per cent. d Salt, 1 per cent. 



THS SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



132a 



Table A. — Continued. 



Food Matbrialb. 



Num- 
ber of 
Bpeei- 
mens 

lyzed. 



Animal foods, edible portion.^ CkmVd, 
Beef — ContinttecL 

Shoulder 

Shoulder ckNi 

Whole rib 

Loiu 

Sirloin 

Porter-houM 

Rump , 

Round 

Flank 

Hind shank 

Liver 

Heart 

Tongue 

Dried beef 

Corned rump 

Corned flank 

Corned and canned 

Tongue, canned 

Tripe, pickled 

Veal: 

Shoulder 

Chuck 

Flank 

Loin (chops) 

liCg (cutlet) 

Liver 

Mutton : 

Neck 

Loin (chops) 

Shoulder 

Hind leg 

Pork: 

Chuck 

Sparerib (chops) 

Smoked suoulder 

Smoked ham 

Bacon . .'. 

Salt pork 

Pork sausage 

Bologna sausage 

Frankfurt sausage 

Poultrv : 

Chicken 

Fowl. 

Turkey 

FislKCtc. : 

Fresh cod 

Fresh mackerel 

Bl ui'flsh 

Shad 

Smelts 

Lake trout 

Red snapper 

Halibut, sections 

Fresh salmon 

Salt cod a 



Pound. 



Refuse 

(bones, 

skin, 

shell, 

etc.) 



Pound. 



Ediblb Portion. 



Water. 



Nutrients. 



Pound, 
.66 
.66 
M 
.61 
.6" 
.61 
.06 
.68 
.56 
.69 
.70 
.63 
.64 
.61 
.58 
.50 
.54 
.47 
.88 

.68 
.73 
.67 
.60 
.71 
.74 

.56 
.48 
.60 
.63 

.51 
.53 
.43 
.43 
.22 
.16 
.44 
.60 
.58 

.72 
.67 
.66 

.83 
.74 

•I 

.A9 

.79 
.75 
.67 
.64 



Total. 



Pound. 
.34 
.35 
.45 
.39 
.40 
.40 
.44 
.32 
.44 
.31 
.30 
.37 
.37 
.49 
.42 
JSO 
.46 
.53 
.13 

.32 
.27 
.33 
.31 
.29 
.26 

.44 

.42 
.37 

.40 
.47 
.57 
.57 

.78 
.84 

.40 
.42 

.28 
.33 
.34 

.17 
.26 
.22 
.29 
.21 
.31 
•22 
.25 
.33 
.23 



Pro- 
tein. 



Fat. 



Pound 
.20 
.20 
.17 
.18 
.18 
.17 
.17 
.20 
.17 
.20 
.22 
.16 
.17 
.32 
.15 
.14 
.27 
.21 
.10 

.20 
.19 
.19 
.20 
.20 
.21 

.17 
.15 
.17 
.18 

.17 
.17 
.16 
.16 
.12 
.05 
.12 
.19 
.21 

.25 
.20 
.21 

.16 
.19 
.19 
.19 
.17 
.18 
.19 
.18 
.19 
.21 



Pound. 
.14 
.14 
.27 
.21 
.21 
.21 
.26 
.11 
.26 
.10 
.06 
.20 
.18 
.07 
.23 
.33 
.16 
.28 
.01 

.11 
.07 
.13 
.11 
.06 
.04 

.26 
.36 
.24 
.18 

.31 
.29 
.38 
.36 
.62 
.76 
.40 
.17 
.17 

.02 
.13 
.09 

.004 

.06 

.01 

.10 

.02 

.11 

.01 

.05 

.13 

.001 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates. 



Miner, 
al mat- 
ters. 



Pound. 



.02 



.01 



.01 



.01 

.001 

.004 



Pound. 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.03 
.03 
.04 
.06 
.002 

.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 

.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 

.01 
.01 
.0( 
.06 
.04 

.02 
.04 
.04 

.01 
.01 
.01 

.01 
.01 
.01 
.1)1 
.02 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.02 



Fuel 

value 

of 

one 
pound. 



Cal'res. 

930 

950 
1,450 
1,210 
1,216 
1.220 
1,430 

846 
1,420 

780 

666 
1,160 
1,085 

886 
1,270 
1,676 
1,170 
1,640 

260 

820 
630 
896 
820 
706 
660 

1,410 
1.800 
1.310 
1,095 

1,625 
1,646 
1.890 
1,800 
2,865 
3,2a5 
1,920 
1,080 
1,110 

636 
890 
810 

310 
605 
406 
746 
400 
820 
400 
f60 
885 
410 



a Salt, 17.2 per cent. 



\32b 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



Table A. — Ccntinued. 





Num- 
ber of 
speci- 
luens 
ana- 
lyzed. 


Refuse 

(bones, 

skin, 

shell, 

etc.) 




Edibt.r Pobtio> 






Fuel 

value 

of 

one 

pound. 


Food Materials. 


Water. 




Nutrients 


. 




Total. 


Pro- 
tein. 


Fat. 


Car- 
bohy- 
drates. 


Miner- 
al mat- 
ters. 


Animal foods, edible portion.— Cont*d. 
Fish, etc.. — Continued. 

Salt cod, boned b 


Pound. 


Pound. 


Pound. 
.54 
.42 
.62 
.87 
.86 
.86 
.74 


Pound. 
.24 
.47 
.37 
.13 
.14 
.14 
.26 
1.00 
.89 

J3 
.10 
.90 
.67 
.66 

.88 
.87 
.87 
.87 
.85 
.8H 
.87 
.92 
.92 
.88 
.88 
.87 
.63 
.94 

.68 
.66 
.95 
.92 
.93 
.96 
.89 

.89 

1.00 

.76 

.18 
.21 
.26 
.29 
.09 
.12 
.07 
.11 
.11 
.12 
.06 
.12 


Pound. 
.22 
.22 
.20 
.06 
.09 
i)7 
.16 

"".oi" 

.04 
.04 
.01 
.26 
.31 

.11 

.14 

.12 

.07 

.06 

.09 

.08 

.15 

.16- 

.08 

.07 

.22 

.13 

.20 

.10 

.10 
.10 

.11 

.09 
.11 
.12 


Pound. 
.(KB 
.23 
.16 
.02 
.01 
.004 
.10 
1.0<» 
.86 

.04 
.01 
.«> 
.36 
.17 

.01 
.02 
.02 
.01 
.01 
.04 
.004 

-T 

.wo 

m 

.004 
.02 
.22 
.32 

.01 
.01 
.14 
.10 
.13 
.06 
.02 


Pound. 

•  • •   • 

.04 
.02 
.04 


Pound. 
.02 

.a* 

.01 
.01 
.03 
.03 

.01 


Cal'res. 
425 


Salt mackerel c 






1,366 


Canned salmon d 






1,U35 


Oysters, solids 






260 


hotfg clams, solids 






24i' 


Round clams, solids 






215 


Eges 






720 


Lai'd and cottolene 






4 220 


Oleomargarine 






.11 

.87 
.90 
.11 
.34 
.46 

.13 
.13 
.13 
.13 
.16 
.15 
.14 
.08 
.08 
.12 
.12 
.13 
.04 
.06 

.32 
.34 
.06 
.08 
.07 
.04 
.11 
.02 
.11 


.004 

.05 
.06 
.01 
.02 
.02 

.76 
.70 
.72 
.79 
.77 
.71 
.77 

.67 
.78 
.79 
.60 
.27 
.40 

.55 
.63 
.70 
.69 
.69 
.78 
.73 
.98 
.88 
1.00 
.73 

.16 
.18 
.23 
.26 
.07 
.09 
.06 
.08 
.09 
.10 
.06 
.10 


.03 

.01 
.01 
.03 
.04 
.04 

.01 

.01 

.02 

.01 

.02 

.01 

.004 

.02 

.02 

.01 

.004 

.03 

.01 

.02 

.01 
.02 
.02 
.02 
.01 
.03 
.03 

'.W"3 

"".02* 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.0<>3 

.01 


3,605 


Dairy products : 

Milk 






325 


Skim milk 






ISO 


Butter 






3,(;i5 


Clieese, whole milk 




' 


2,005 


CbfiASA, skim milk 






1,496 


Vegetable foods : 
Flour and meal 

Wheat flour 


22 
2 
3 
4 
9 
104 
2 

10 
4 
1 

10 
6 
1 
1 

13 
1 

1 
1 
1 
1 
23 


" " .33' 


1,645 


Wheat flour (" entire wheat ") 

GrHhaiii flour 


1,&10 
1.625 


Rye flour 


1,626 


Buckwheat flour 


1,685 


Corn or maize meal 


i.a'yi 


White hominy 


1.620 


Oatmeal 


l,8oO 


Rolled oats 


1.855 


Pearl barley 


1,635 


Bice 


1.6.'iO 


Beans, dry 


1,606 


Peanuts In shells 


1,G(iO 


Peanuts. *' meats *' 


2,476 


Bread, crackers, etc. : 

Wheat bread 


1,266 


Oraham bread 


1,2.5 


Graham crackers 


2.:50 


Boston crackers 


1,8:»5 


Milk or cream crackers 


2,010 


Ovster crackers 


1,865 




1,640 


Starch 


1,H20 


Taoioca. nearl 


1 


 «■•••■ 


.003 


.002 


1,655 


Suirar. granulated 


1,860 


Molasiies 






.25 

.67 
.79 
.62 
.71 
.71 
.88 
.68 
.89 
.79 
.88 
.44 
.88 






1,300 


Vegetables : 

PotatoM 




.15 

• • « > 

.13 
' " " .26" 
'""'.36* 

« • • • •   

.10 
"',G0 


.02 

.02 

.01 

.02 

.01 

.02 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.004 

.01 


.001 
.001 
.003 
.004 
.001 
.001 
.001 
.002 
.003 
.003 
.001 
.002 


820 


Potatoes, edible portion 


12 


375 




4*0 


Sweet potatoes, edible portion 

Beets 


6 


631) 
100 


Beets, edible oortlon 


12 


200 


Turnips 


1:10 


Turnips, edible portion. 

Onions 


7 


185 
2a5 


Onions, edible Dortion 


6 


225 


Sanash 


105 


Sauash edible nortion 


3 


215 







b Salt, 21.5 per cent. c Salt, 7.6 per cent. d Salt, 1 per cent. 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 



182c 



Table A. — Concluded. 



Food Materials. 



Nnm- 
ber of 
speci- 
mens 
ana- 
lyzed. 



Vegetable foods.— Contintied. 
Vegetables — Coutinned. 

Cucambers 

Cucumbers, edible portion 

Cabbage 

Cabbage, edible portion 

Cauliflower 

Eggpjaut 

Lititcuce 

Spinach 

Asparagus 

Green peas 

String beans 

Liiual>eans, green 

Green sweet corn 

Tomatoes 

Watermelon, flesh or pojp 

Fruits, etc. : 

Apples 

A pples, edible portion 

Bananas, with skin 

Bananas, with pulp.rrr. 

Cherries, flesh 

Strawberries 

Blackberries 

Whortleberries 

Cranberries 

Grapes 

Grapes, edible portion 

Lemons, flesh 

.Oranges, flesh 

Canned : 

Baked beans, canned 

Peas, canned 

String beans, canned 

Lima beans, canned 

Squash, canned 

Tomatoes, canned 

Com, canned 

Succotash, canned 



Pound, 



4 
1 
1 
3 
1 
3 
1 
2 
1 
1 

14 
1 



7 
1 
2 
1 
19 
1 
1 
1 



1 

2 

13 

12 
82 
18 
IJJ 

2 
11 
44 

1 



Refuse 
(bones, 

skin, 
shell, 

etc.) 



Pound. 
.16 

""Ah 



Edible Pobtion. 



Water. 



Nutrients. 



I Total. 



is' 



.26 



Pound. 
.82 
.96 
.78 
.92 
.92 
.93 
.93 
.92 
M 
.78 
.87 
.69 
.81 
.94 
.92 

.62 

.f*2 
.46 
.70 
.86 
.91 
.89 
.82 
.88 
.66 
.76 
.89 
.88 

.67 
.86 
.94 
.80 
.87 

.76 
.76 



Pound. 
.03 
.04 
.07 
.08 
.06 
.07 
.07 
.08 
.06 
.22 
.13 
.32 
.19 
.06 
.08 

.13 
.18 
.16 
3) 
.14 
.09 
.11 
.18 
.12 
.19 
.26 
.11 
.12 

.33 
.16 
.06 
.20 
.13 
.06 
.26 
.24 



Pro- 
tein. 



Poxmd. 
.01 
.01 
.02 
.02 
.02 
.01 
.02 
.02 
.02 
.04 
.02 
.07 
.08 
.01 
.01 

.004 

.01 

.01 

.02 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.004 

.01 

.02 

.01 

.01 

.07 
.04 
.01 
.04 
.01 
.01 
.03 
.04 



Fat. 



Pound. 
.002 
.002 
.003 
. .003 
.01 
.003 
.01 
.01 
.002 
.01 
.004 
.01 
.01 
.004 
.01 

.01 

.01 

.002 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.02 

.03 

.01 

.01 

.02 

.01 

.01 

.03 

.002 

.001 

.003 

.003 

.002 

.01 

.01 



Car- 
bohy- 
drates. 



Pound. 
.02 
.03 
.(H 
.06 
.06 
M 
.04 
.03 
.03 
.16 
.10 
.22 
.14 
.06 
.06 

.12 
' .16 
.16 
.27 
.11 
.07 
.08 
.14 
.11 
.16 
.21 
.06 
.09 

.20 
.10 
.04 
.14 
.12 
.04 
.20 
.19 



Miner- 
al mat- 
ters. 



Pound. 
.004 
.Gl 
.01 
.01 
,.01 
.01 
.01 
.02 
.01 
.01 
.01 
.02 
.01 
.01 
.003 

.004 

.01 

.01 

.61- 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.0(4 

.002 

.004 

.01 

.01 

.01 

.02 

.01 

.01 

.02 

.004 

.01 

.01 

.01 



Fuel 

value 

of 

one 

pound. 



Cal'ree. 
60 
70 
120 
140 
IS.*) 
130 
120 
120 
106 
400 
236 
670 
360 
116 
160 

260 
336 
296 
— 665. 

26» 
175 
246 
390 
360 
376 
6fK) 
210 
230 

646 
265 
86 
8R6 
260 
110 
470 
445 



lS2d 



THE 8CIENCB OP NUTRITION. 



Table B. 
nutrients obtained for 10 cents in different foods at ordinary prices. 



Food BIatxriai^ ab purchaskd. 



PrioM 

per 
pound. 



Ten cents will buy — 



Total 
food mate- 
rial. 



Nutrients. 



Protein. 



Fat. 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



Fuel 
value. 



Annual Foods. 
Beef: 

Neck 

Do 

Do 

Chuck 

Do 

Do 

Shoulder 

Do 

Do 

Rib 

Do 

Do 

Sirloin 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Round 

Do 

Do 

Liver 

Do 

Dried and smoked 

Do 

Do 

Canned corned 

Do 

Do 

Teal: 

Shoulder. 

Do 

Do 

Loin (chops) 

Do 

LeK(outiet) 

Mutton : 

Shoulder. 

Do 

Do 

Iioin (chops) 

Do 

Do^. 

Leg 

Do 

Do 

Pork: 

Sparerib 

Do 

Do 

Smoked ham. 

Do 

Do 

Smoked shoulder 

Do 

Do 

Salt pork , f at 



Cents. 



8 

8 

10 

14 

6 

9 

12 

10 

12 

16 

12 

16 

18 

20 

10 

12 

15 

6 

8 

15 

20 

26 

10 

12 

16 

8 
10 
14 
16 
20 
16 
20 

6 

7 
10 

8 
12 
16 

8 
12 
16 

10 
12 
14 
12 
16 
20 
8 
10 
14 
10 



Pounds. 

2.50 

1.67 

l.'>6 

1.26 

1.00 

.71 

1.67 

1.11 

.h3 

1.00 

.83 

.63 

.83 

.67 

.65 

.60 

1.00 

.83 

.67 

2.00 

1.26 

.67 

.60 

.40 

1.00 

.83 

.63 

1.26 
1.00 
.71 
.07 
.60 
.67 
.60 

2.00 

1.43 

1.00 

1.26 

.83 

.63 

1.26 

.83 

.63 

1.00 
.83 
.71 
.83 
.63 
.60 
1.26 
1.00 

.n 

1.00 



Pounds. 
0.36 
.24 
.18 
.19 
.16 
.11 
.27 
.18 
.14 
.13 
.11 
.08 
.14 
.11 
.00 
.08 
.18 
.16 
.12 
.43 
.27 
.21 
.16 
.13 
.27 
.22 
.17 

.21 
.17 
.12 
.11 
.08 
.06 
.04 

.26 
.19 
.13 
.16 
.11 
.08 
.19 
.12 
.09 

.14 
.12 
.10 
.06 
.04 
.04 
.16 
.13 
.09 



Pounds. 
0.28 
.19 
.14 
.19 
.16 
.11 
A6 
.12 
.09 
.21 
.18 
.13 
.16 
.13 

.to 

.09 
.11 
.00 
.07 
.11 
.07 
.06 
.03 
.03 
.16 
.13 
.10 

.11 
.09 
.06 
.06 
.04 
.02 
.01 

.37 
.26 
.19 
.30 
.26 
.19 
.19 
.12 
.09 

.26 
.20 
.17 
.31 
.24 
.19 
.41 
.33 
.23 
.69 



Pounds. 



0.04 
.02 



Calories. 

1.825 

1.220 
910 

1.176 
940 
66 

1,270 
846 
630 

1,140 
, W6 
720 
916 
736 
606 
660 
780 
645 
625 

1,330 
830 
695 
446 
355 

1,170 
970 
735 

846 
676 
480 
446 
336 
166 
120 

2,n60 
1.466 
1,026 

1,!»36 

1,286 

976 

1,140 

756 

575 

1,300 
1.080 

925 
1.430 
1,090 

860 
2,030 
1,626 
1.160 
2,996 



THE SCIKNC£ OF NUTRITION. 



Id2tf 



Tablk B — Continued, 



Food Matskiala as pubchabed. 



PricoB 

per 
pound. 



Animal Foods, — Oontimued, 



Pork —Con tinned. 

Salt Pork, fat ^ 

Pork lansage 

Do 

Do 

Bologna sansage 

Plih: 

Fresh cod, dreeiied 

Do 

Do 

Fresh mackerel, dressed. 

Do 

Do 

Blueflsh, dressed 

Do 

Do 

Halibut steaks 

Do 

Salmon 

Do 

Salt Mackerel 

Do 

Salt cod, dry 

Do 

Boned salt cod 

Do... 

Oysters : 

30 cents a quart 

40 cents a quart 

50 cents a quart 

Eggs: 

15 cents a dozen 

20 cents a dozen 

25 cents a dozen 

30 cents a dozen 

Milk: 

Sweet — 

4 cents a quart 

6 cents a quart 

8 cents a quart 

Skim, 3 cents a quart — 
Butter 

Do 

Do 

Cheese: 

Whole milk 

Do 

Skim milk 



Vegetable Foods. 



Wheat flour 
Do.... 
Do.... 

Cknmmeal... 
l>o.... 

Oatmeal .... 



Cents. 
14 

8 
10 
12 

8 
10 

6 

8 

12 

12 

15 

18 

8 

12 

16 

15 

18 

25 

50 

8 

12 

6 

8 

9 

.10 

16 
20 
26 



10 
20 



12 
16 
10 



2 

2i 

3 

2 

3 

3 



Ten cents will buy — 



Total 
food mate- 
rials. 



Nutrients. 



Protein. 



Fat. 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



Fuel 
value. 



Pounds. 
.71 
1.26 
1.00 
83 
1.26 
1.00 

1.67 

1.22 

.83 

.83 

.67 

.66 

1.25 

.83 

.63 

.67 

J66 

.40 

.20 

1.25 

.83 

1.67 

1.26 

l.U 

1.00 

.67 
.60 
.40 

1.00 
.76 
.60 
.60 



2 


6.00 


3 


333 


4 


2.60 


u 


6.67 


16 


.63 


'iA 


.42 


32 


.31 



.83 

.63 

1.00 



6.00 
4.00 
3.88 
5.00 
8.83 
8.33 



Pounds. 
.03 
.16 
.12 
.10 
.24 
.19 

.18 
.13 
.00 
.00 
.08 
.06 
.12 
.08 
.06 
.10 
.06 
.06 
.03 
.18 
.12 
.28 
.20 
.25 
.22 

.04 

. 03 

.03 

.13 
.09 
.08 
.07 

.18 
.12 
.09 
.23 


Pounds. 
.49 
.50 
.40 
.33 
.22 
.17 


Pounds. 


.02 
.01 
.01 














.03 
.02 
.02 
.01 
.01 














.03 
.02 
.04 
.02 
.19 
.13 
.01 
.01 






















.01 
.01 
.01 

.12 
.09 
.07 
.06 

20 
.13 
.10 
.03 
.54 
.36 
.26 

.30 
.23 
.17 

.06 
.04 
.03 
.18 
.12 
.24 


.03 
.02 
.01 








.24 

.16 
.12 
.34 






.01 
.01 
.16 

3.74 
2.99 
2.49 

2.27 


.28 
.16 
.81 

.66 
.44 

J» 
.46 
.31 
.60 



Calories. 
2,125 
2,430 
1,946 
1.615 
1,360 
1,060 

340 

266 
170 

300 
240 
200 
265 
170 
130 
310 
256 
270 
135 
1,135 
766 
625 
895 
470 
425 

176 

130 
106 

720 
540 
430 
360 



1,625 
1,080 

815 
1.200 
2,276 
1.520 

940 

1,665 
1.265 
1.345 



8,226 
6.680 
6,480 
8,260 
5.495 
6,160 



132/ 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



Table B. — Concluded, 



Food Materials as purcuasbd.— Con. 



Prices 

per 
pound. 



Ten cents will buy — 



Total 
food mate- 
rials. 



Nutrients. 



Protein. 



Fat. 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



Fuel 
value. 



Vegetable foods. — Concluded. 

Oatmeal 

Do 

Rice 

Do 

Wbeat bread 

Do 

Do 

Do 

Boston craokers 

Do 

Milk crackers 

Do 

Oyster crackers 

Do 

Corn starch and tapioca 

Do 

Sugar, granulated 

Do 

Do 

Potatoes: 

45 cents a bushel 

60 cents a bushel 

75 cents a bushel 

90 cents a bushel 

Sweet potatoes : 

90 cents a bushel 

•I2i) a bushel 

91.60a bushel 

Turnips 

Beans 

Do 

Do 



Pounds. 
%50 

" 2.00 
2.(10 
1.43 
2.50 
2.00 
1.67 
1.25 
2.00 
1.67 
1.67 
1 11 
1.67 
1.11 
1.25 
1.00 
2.50 
2.00 
1.67 

13.33 

10.00 

8.00 

6.67 

6.67 
5.00 
4.00 
8.00 
3.33 
2.m 
2.00 



Pounds. 
.38 
.30 
.15 
.11 
.26 
.22 
.17 
.13 
.21 
.18 
.16 
.10 
.19 
.13 



.24 
.18 
.14 
.12 

.09 
.06 
.05 
.07 
.74 
.56 
.45 



Pounds. 
.18 
.14 
.t)l 
.01 
.03 
.02 
.02 
.01 
.20 
.17 
.22 
.16 
.08 
.06 



.01 
.01 
.01 
.01 

.02 
.02 
.01 
.01 
.06 
.06 
.04 



Pounds. 
1.71 
1.36 
1.69 
1.14 
1.38 
1.11 

.92 

.69 
1.37 
1.15 
1.16 

.77 
1.29 

.86 
1.23 

.98 
2.50 
2.00 
1.67 

2.03 
1.52 
1.22 
1.01 

152 
1 14 
.91 
.46 
1.98 
1.49 
1.19 



Calories. 
4.625 
3,700 
3.260 
2,330 
3,160 
2,530 
2.110 
1,6X0 
3.790 
3,160 
3.365 
2.230 
3,005 
2,060 
2,276 
1,820 
4,(i50 
3.720 
3,106 

4.266 
3,200 
2,56'i 
2,135 

3,070 
2,300 
1,840 
1,040 
5,346 
4,01» 
3,210 



—COMPOSITION OP FOOD MATERIALS. 
Nuirijtive ingredienU, refuw, and fuel value, 
Vubrlemi*. Non-natrients. 



ProtiBin. iTaU. Carbo- Mineral 

hydrates, matters. 



E3Sa 

Water. BeAue. 




Prottin oompoonds, «. g., lean of meat, white of egg, casein (enrd) of milk, and gluten of wheat, 
make mnacle, olood, bone, etc 

cSL'kJSffX'l rM »^"4"£: }•«'••. ft«d f y«d h«» •»«» r-^^""^ Pow«. 



Uutrients, etc., p. otT 
Fnel value of 1 lb. 




* Without bone. 



PECUNIARY.BCONOMY OF FOOD. 
Amounts ofaotually nuiritivtingredienU obtained in difforont food mat^rialt for 10 cents. 



Prorcin. 



Fsto. 



CarbohydraCfee. - Fuel valae.) 



Protein oomponixls. e. g.. lean of meat, white of egg, caaein (ourd) of milk, aod gluten of wheat. 
makemiiacle««ulood« bone. eto. 



Beet round. 



Beef, airloln. 



Beef. rib. 



Motton, leg. 



Pork, spare rib. 



Pork. Ball, fat. 



Ham, smoked. 



Codflah, fresh. 



Codilah,salt. 



Oysters, 40 cents quart. 



Milk. cents quart. 



Batter 



Cheese. 



Egga. 25 cents dozen. 



Wheat bread. 



Wheat flour. 



Cora meal. 



Oat meal. 



Beana, white, dried. 



Rice. 



Potatoes, 60 cents bushel. 



Sugar 



Price 

per 

pound. 



CftlU. 



- -12 



18 



16 
12 



12 



14 



16 



8 



6 



20 
3 



24 



16 



_IC5 

4 



3 

2 



4 
4 

5 



I 
5 



Ten 

cents 

will 

buy— 



Ll>i. 



Pounds of nutrients and calories of fuel value m 10 cents 

worth. 



ILh. 



2 Lbs. 



3 Lbs.. 4Lba. 



ZOOOCal. 4000Cal. eOOOCal. SOOOCal 




.60 



2.50 



4.00 
5.00 




2.50 



2.50 



2.00 



10.00 



2.00 






mmmmmi 



^^m^^^ 






THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



133 



DIGESTIBILITY OF FOODS. 



Table II. epitomizes the results of some sixty experiments, mostly with men^ 
bat a few with children, in which the proportions of the ingredients of food- 
materials actually digested have have been found by comparison of amounts and 
composition of the food eaten with those of the undigested excreta. 



Table II. 



DiGSSTIBILITT OF NUTBrBNTB OF FOOI>-MATBBIAL8. 



In tbb Food-Matsbxalb Bslow. 



Meats and fish 
Eggs . 
Milk . 
Butter . 
Oleomargarine 
Wheat bread 
Com (maize) meal 
Bice 
Pease . 
Potatoes 
Beets . 



of the total amonnti of protaln, fats, and 
oarbohYdrates, tfae following percentages 
were dlgeated. 



Protein. 



Practically aU. 
88 to 100 



81 to 100 
89 
84 
86 
74 
72 



Fata. 



79 to 92 

96 

93 to 98 

98 

96 

? 

? 

? 

? 

? 

? 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



? 



99 
97 
99 
96 
92 
82 



184 



THB SCIENCE OF KUTBITIOIT. 



Table III. 

FBOPOBTION8 OF HUTKLBlTrS DIOB8TBD AlTD KOT DIOB8TBD FBOM FOOD-liATEBIALS BY 

HBALTHY MBB. 







Psonni 


. 


Fati* 


Cabbobtdeatu. 








1 


1 




l. 


• 




1 


• 

1 








1 


f 


j 


1 


t 


j 


I 


t 


d 

* 


1 




5 


► 


^ 


5 


P 


S 


5 


perot. 






1 




perot. 


perct 


perct 


perct. pi 


srot. 


perot. 


p«ret 


perot. 


perct. 


perct. 


Beef, round 


28.0 


0.0 


23.0 


8.1 


0.9 


9.0 


0.0 


0.0 


0.0 


1.8 


66.7 


Beef, sirloin . . . 




20.0 


0.0 


20.0 


17.1 


1.9 


19.0 


0.0 


0.0 


0.0 


1.0 


60.0 


Pork, very fat . . . 
Haddock . . . • , 




3.0 


0.0 


3.0 


74.5 


6.0 


80.5 


 • 


. . 


. . 


6.5 


10.0 




17.1 


0.0 


17.1 


0.3 


» . 


0.3 


0.0 


0.0 


0.0 


1.2 


81.4 


Mackerel .... 




18.8 


0.0 


18.8 


7.4 


0.8 


8.2 


0.0 


0.0 


0.0 


1.4 


71.6 


Hens* egf^s .... 




13.4 


0.0 


13.4 


9.4 


2.4 


11.8 


0.7 


0.0 


0.7 


1.0 


73.1 


Cows* milk .... 




8.4 


0.0 


3.4 


3.6 


0.1 


3.7 


4.8 


0.0 


4.8 


0.7 


87.4 


Cheese, whole milk . 




27.1 


0.0 


27.1 


84.6 


0.9 


35.5 


2.3 


0.0 


2.3 


8.9 


31.2 


Butter 




1.0 


a . 


1.0 


85.8 


1.7 


87.5 


0.5 


. . 


0.5 


2.0 


9.0 


Oleomargarine • . . 




0.4 


. • 


0.4 


83.9 


3.8 


87.2 


0.0 


. • 


0.0 


2.1 


10.3 


Sugar 




0.3 


• . 


0.3 


• •# i 


t • 


• . 


96.7 


0.0 


96.7 


0.8 


2.2 


Wheat j-1iS^« : ; 




7.6 


1.3 


8.9 


1.0 . 


1 a 


1.0 


74.4 


0.8 


75.2 


0.8 


14.^ 




9.5 


2.1 


11.6 


0.8 


1 . 


0.8 


70.4 


1.8 


72.2 


0.4 


15.0 


°°^ (coarse, whole wh. 


. 8.2 


2.7 


10.9 


1.8 


1 • 


1.8 


66.4 


5.3 


71.7 


1.2 


14.4 


Wheat, bread average . 


7.7 


1.2 


8.9 


1.9 


» • 


1.9 


54.9 


0.6 


55.5 


1.0 


32.7 


Black bread 


4.5 


1.6 


6.1 


• . ) 


» . 


. . 


43.3 


5.3 


48.6 


1.5 


43. & 


Pease 


• 


19.7 


3.2 


22.9 


1.8 


1 • 


1.8 


55.7 


2.1 


57.8 


2.5 


15.0 


Com (maize) meal . . 


• 


7.9 


1.2 


9.1 


3.8 


1 • 


3.8 


68.7 


2.3 


71.0 


1.6 


14.& 


Bice 




6.2 


1.2 


7.4 


0.4 


• . 


0.4 


78.7 


0.7 


79.4 


0.4 


12.4 


Potatoes 




1.5 


0.5 


2.0 


0.2 


• 


0.2 


19.7 


1.6 


21.3 


1.0 


75.5 


Turnips 




0.7 


0.3 


1.0 


0.2 


t . 


0.2 


5.6 


1.3 


6.9 


0.7 


91.^ 



USES OF FOOD IN THE BODY. 



Food supplies the wants of the body in several ways. It either — 

1. Is used to form the tissues and fluids of the body; 

2. Is used to repair the wastes of tissue; 

3. Is stored in the body for future consumption; 

4. Is consumed as fuel^ its potential energy being transformed into heat or 
muscular energy or other forms of energy required by the body; or 

5. In being consumed protects tissue or other food from consumption. 

One can hardly present the elements of this case in too many aspects and as the 
purpose of this treatise is to promote further work on the same line, various tables 



THE BOIBNOB OF NUTEITIOK. 135 

will be gfven at the risk of repetition, each one dealing with the matter under a 
different aspect. 

In dealing with the Pecuniary Economy o£ food in No. V of the Century Arti- 
cles, Prof. Atwater makes the following quotation and then proceeds to show what 
true economy may be: 



No one can say that I do not give my family the best of flour, the finest sugar, the very, best quality of meat 



ti 



The above is the boast of a coal laborer earning seven dollars a week. It illus- 
trates a phenomenon which I would commend to the consideration of either psychol- 
ogists or students of social science, or both. I refer to the conceit, let us call it, 
that there is some mysterious virtue in those kinds of foods that have the most 
delicate appearance and flavor and the highest price; that whatever else one has or 
does not have he must, if possible, have this sort of food; and that to economize by 
using anything inferior would be a sacrifice of both dignity and principle. 

The quotation, from a description of the life of factory operatives in New Eng- 
land, in an article by Mr. Lee Meriwether, in '^ Harper's Magazine '' for April, 
1887, illustrates what I mean. 

The cheapest food is that which supplies the most nutriment for the least 
money. The most economical food is that which is cheapest and best adapted to 
the wants of the user. But the maxim that 'Hhe best is the cheapest does not 
apply to food. The best food, in the sense of that which has the finest appearance 
and flavor and is sold at the highest price, is not generally the cheapest nor the 
most economical, nor is it always the most healthful. The coal laborer who made 
it so much an article of faith to give his family *' the best of flour, the finest sugar, 
the very best quality of meat; " who, as Mr. Meriwether tells us, at a time when 
excellent butter was selling at 25 cents a pound paid 29 cents for an extra quality; 
who spent $156 a year for the nicest cuts of meat, which his wife had to cook before 
six in the morning or after half-past six at night because she worked all day in the 
factory; who spent only $108 for clothing for his family of nine, and only $72 a 
year for rent in a crowded tenement-house where they slept in rooms without win- 
dows or closets; who indulged in this extravagance in food when much cheaper 
meat and in all probability much less of it, cheaper butter, cheaper flour, and other 
less costly materials such as come regularly upon the table of many a man of wealth 
would have been just as wholesome, just as nutritious, and in every way just as 
good save in its gratification to pride and palate, — this man was iiinocently commit- 
ting an immense economical and hygienic blunder. He was doing this because, like 
the very large class of people of whom he is a type, he was laboring under this con- 
ceit of which I speak. 



136 THB 8CIEKCB OF KUTBITION. 

One great difficulty here is the lack of information. Even those who^wish and 
try to economize in the purchase and use of food very often do not understand how. 
They consult carefully the prices they pay, but have in general very vague ideas 
about the nutritive values. It is an interesting fact that although the cost of food 
is the principal item of the living expenses of the large majority of people^ — of all, 
indeed, but a few of the especially well-to-do,* — and although the health and 
strength of all are so intimately dependent upon their diet, yet even the most intel- 
ligent know less of the actual uses and value of their food for fulfilling its purposes 
than of those of almost any other of the staple necessities of life. 

PEBCENTAGE OF INCOME EXPENDED FOR SUBSISTENCE. 



FaoolllM of 
GERMANY. 

Workingmen, 

Intermediate class, ** MUtdstand,^^ 


Annual Income. 

$225 to $800 
460 to 600 


Per cent, exneoded 
for food. 

62 
56 


In easy circumstaDces, '* WoTUstand^^^ 


750 to 1100 


50 


6BBAT BRrrAIN. 






Workingmen, 


500 


51 


MA8SACUU8KTTB. 






Workingmen, 

it 


850 to 400 
450 to 600 


64 

68 


it 


600 to 750 


60 


«c 


760 to 1200 


56 


<( 


above 1200 


51 



RATIOS OP NUTRITIVE VALUES TO COST. 

The large majority of the families in this country have, I understand, not over 
1500 a year to live upon. More than half of this goes, and must go, for food. 
Rent, clothing, the cost of preparing the food for the table, and all other expenses 
must be provided from the rest. Perhaps these statements apply less accurately to 
farmers, but of wage- workers in towns statisticians tell me they are correct. 

To the man with an income of $5,000 a year, it may seem to make little differ- 

*In his Report of the Bnreaa of Statistics of Labor of Massachnsetts for 1884, Mr. Carroll D. Wright smnroa- 
rlzes the results of investigations into the cost of living of people with different Incomes, especially of working- 
men's families, in Massachusetts and in Great Britain, and quotes similar results obtained by Dr. Engel in Germany. 
Dividing expenses into those for subsistence (food), clothing, rent, fuel, and sundries, the percentage of the 
whole Income expended for subsistence averages as in the tabular statement herewith. As incomes Increase the 
relative percentage of outlay for food becomes less and that for '* sundries " greater. In the Massachusetts and 
Great Britain figures (I do not know how it is with the German, but presume that the case is the same,) no outlay 
for Intoxicating liquors is included in the allowance for subsistence. 



THE SCIBNCB OF NUTBITION. 137 

ence whether he pays 20 cents or 12 a ponnd for the protein of his food; bat to the 
one who can earn only $500 or less a year for the support of his family, the differ- 
ence is an important one. His wife goes to the dry goods store to buy a dress for 
her daughter, and hesitates between a piece of cloth at 40 cents a yard that would 
please her better and one at 35 that is not so pretty but just as durable, and is very 
apt to take the cheaper one because she feels that she must. She does not fall into 
the error of getting more cloth than is needed and using part of the excess for 
lining and throwing the rest away, nor, if she is wise, does she try to economize by 
getting poor trimmings and cheap thread. Bat when she goes to the grocer or to 
the butcher or to the fish market for food to bnild up her children's bodies and give 
her husband and herself strength to work, she often pays one or two dollars a pound 
for protein to make muscle when she might obtain it in forms equally wholesome 
and nutritious for from 15 to 50 cents. The food she buys is apt to supply some of 
the nutrients in excessive amount as well as at needlessly high cost, while it fur- 
nishes others in insufficient quantity or in unfiitting forms and in uneconomical 
ways; and only too often a part of it finds its way into the drain or the garbage 
barrel instead of being utilized for nourishment. 

Of conrse the good wife and mother does not understand about protein and po- 
tential energy and the connection between the nutritive value of food and the price 
she pays for it, and doubtless she never will. But if the knowledge is obtained and 
put in print, and diffused among those who have the time and training to get hold 
of it, the main facts will gradually work their way to the masses, who most need its 
benefit. 

A subi«ict that has received but little attention in this country, though it is one 
of the many special problems that are being carefully considered by students of 
social economy in Europe, is the relation of the nutritive value of food to its cost. 
We purchase our food by gross weight or measure. Part of it consists of nutritive 
substances, the rest is made up of water and various materials which serve only as 
ballast. In comparing different food-materials with respect to their cheapness or 
dearness we are apt to judge them by the prices per pound, quart, or bushel, with- 
out much regard to the amounts or kinds of actual nutrients which they contain. 
Of the different food-materials which the market affords and which are palatable, 
nutritious, and otherwise fit for nourishment, what ones are pecuniarily the most 
economical? 

In a series of studies, undertaken at the instance of the Smithsonian Institution, 
I have had occasion to examine into some of these problems. A few of the results 
of the inquiry are summarized in Diagrams VI. and VII. 

There are various ways of comparing food-materials with respect to the relative 



138 THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITIOK. 

cheapness or deamess of their nntritive ingredients. The best, perhaps, consists in 
simply comparing the quantities of nutrients obtained for a given sum, 25 cents for 
instance, in the food when purchased at market prices. Diagram VI- gives a series 
of such comparisons. They are based upon the analyses of materials, obtained 
mostly in markets in New York City and in M'ddletown, Conn., and upon the 
retail prices paid for them. Along with the quantities of nutrients which 25 cents 
will buy are shown the quantities estimated to be appropriate for a day^s diet for an 
ordinary man doing a moderate amount of muscular labor. Two such standards 
are given — one proposed by Professor Yoit in Germany, and based mainly upon ex- 
periments and observations in that country; the other proposed by myself. The 
diagram shows the quantities of different food-materials which one would get for a 
quarter of a dollar; the quantities of protein and fats and carbohydrates contained 
in them; and how these amounts of nutrients compare with what an average man, 
engaged in moderately hard muscular work, might be expected to need to maintain 
his body in vigorous condition and supply strength for the work he has to do. 
Another way of comparing the nutritive value of the food-materials with the cost 
is by the quantities of potential energy they contain. Diagram VII. shows the 
estimated quantities of energy in the nutritive ingredients of the materials in Dia- 
gram VI., — ^that is, the amount which 25 cents would pay for. Still another method 
of comparing the actual expensiveness of different foods at the prices at which people 
buy them consists in comparing the cost of the same nutrient in different food- 
materials. Of the different nutrients, protein is physiologically the most impor- 
tant, as it is pecuniarily the most expensive. For these reasons the cost of protein 
in different food-materials may be used as a means of comparing their relative 
cheapness or deamess, as is done in Diagram VII. The figures represent the ordi- 
nary prices per pound and the corresponding costs of protein, due allowance being 
made for the carbohydrates and fats, the estimated costs of which are, for the sake 
of brevity, omitted from the table.* 

* As explained in previous articles, the aotaally nutritlTe ingredients of food may be divided into four classes- 
Protein, Fats, Carbohydrates, and Mineral MatterH. Leaving? water out of aooonnt, lean meat, white of eg!^ 
casein (card) of milk, and gluten of wheat consist mainly of protein compounds. Butter and lard are mostly fats. 
Sugar and starch are carbohydrates. The nutrients of meat, fish, and other animal foods consist mainly of pro- 
tein and fats; those of the vegetable foods are largely carbohydrates. 

In serving as nutriment, the protein compounds which contain nitrogen form the basis of blood, muscle, 
tendon, etc., and are transformed into fat, and also serve as fuel to supply the body with heat and muscular 
strength. The fats of the food are stored as fat in the body and serve as fuel. The carbohydrates are trans- 
formed Into fats and serve as fuel. The potential enery in Calories (calorie is the equivalent of heat which would 
warm about four pounds of water one degree Fahrenheit) la taken as the measure of the fuel- value of the food. 
One part by weight of fat Is equivalent, in this respect, to about two parts of either protein or carbohydrates. 
The demands of different people for nourishment vary with age. sex, occupation, and other conditions of life. 
Health and pecuniary economy alike reqnhre that the diet should contain nutrients proportionate to the wants of 
the uaer. Of oouise the difference in the composition of different specimens of the same kind of food-material, and 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITION. 139 



EXPENSIVE VS. ECONOMICAL FOODS. 

Taking the diagrams and tabular Btatements together^ the first thing that strikes 
one is the cheapness of the vegetable as compared with the animal foods. Note> for 
instance, Diagram VI. and the accompanying figures, which show how much 
actually nutritive material one may have for 25 cents in different foods at ordinary 
prices. The quarter of a dollar invested in flour, meal, or potatoes brings several 
times the quantity of nutrients that it does if spent for meats, fish, or milk. But 
it is to be remembered that the animal foods contain more of the protein and fats, 
which are the most valuable food constituents, while the excess of material obtained 
in the vegetable foods consists mainly or entirely of sugar, starch, and other car- 
bohydrates, which, though very important for nourishment, are far less valuable, 
weight for weight, than the protein and fats. Furthermore, the protein of the an- 
imal foods is more easily and completely digestible than that of the vegetable foods. 

The greater expensiveness of animal foods is brought out with even greater 
clearness in Diagram VII. and in the accompanying figures. The quantities of po 
tential energy in the nutritive material obtained for 25 cents range, in the animal 
foods, from 160 Calories, in the salmon at a dollar a pound, to 6,800, in salt pork at 
13 cents a pound ; while in the vegetable foods in the tables the range is from about 
500, in rice at 8 cents a pound, to 1,200, in corn meal at 2 cents a pound. The 
standards for the diets of an ordinary workingman call for from 3,000 to 3,600 
Calories in one day^s food. 

Estimating the expensiveness by the cost of the protein, we find this to range 
from 8 to 34 cents a pound in the vegetable, and from 18 cents to a little over one 
dollar in ordinary animal foods — meats, fish, milk, eggs, etc. — while in some it is 
much higher, thus showing the greater expensiveness of animal foods in another 
way. The reason for this higher cost is, of course, simple enough. Animal foods 
are made from vegetable, and by a more or less expensive process. The manufacture 
of beef or milk from grass and grain involves considerable outlay for labor and in- 
cidental expenses, and the product is, of course, much less in quantity than the 
raw material. 

If the reader is interested in such statistics he will find considerable food for 
reflection in the diagrams and figures. He will observe that among animal foods 

In the nutritive effect of the same substance with different persons, is snch that these calculations are not oorreot 
for every case. Furthermore, there are other things besides the proportions of nutrients that affect the nutritiv* 
action of food. This topic I hope to discuss later. Meanwhile it will suffice to say that for the staple food-mate- 
rials these calculations are probably dose approximations to the real nutritive values as compared with the costs 
The methods by which they are made are too complex to be explained here, but may be found In an artioto on 
**Food Consumption " in the Report of the Massachusetts Bureau of Statistics of Labor for 1866, p. S51. 



Diagram VI.— COMPARATIVE EXPENSIVENESS OF FOODS. 

Amounts of Actual Nutrients ^Nutritive Ingredients) Obtained for Twenty-five Cents in Different 
Food-Materials at Ordinary Pricesi with Amounts Appropriate for a Day's Ration, 



Food-MattriaU. 



Beef, sirloin 

Beef, sirloin, at lower price 

Beef, round 

Beef, neck 

M utton, \t% 

Smoked Ham 

Salt Pork, very fat 

Salmon, early in season. 

Salmon, at lower price 

Mackerel 

Codfish 

Salt Mackerel 

Salt Codfish 

Oysters, at 40 cents per quart 

Hens* eggs, at 30 cents per doxen. 

Milk, at 7 cents per quart 

Cheese, whole milk 

Cheese, skimmed milk 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 

Sugar 



Wheat flour 

Wheat bread 

Corn (maixe) meal 



Oatmeal 



Rice 

Beans 

Potatoes, at 75 cents per bushel 






Cts. 

•as 
.ao 

.16 

.08 

.23 

•'4 

.12 

I .00 

.30 

.xo 

.08 

.07 
.20 

•«5 
.08 

•30 
•X5 
.07^ 

.03 

.03 

•05 

.08 
.05 
.01^ 



Quantities obtained for 25 cents. 



^ i Nutrients in the Food-Materials. 

, tl Quantiries in pounds and hundredths of « pound faidicated bjr shaded bands . 
**** PROTEIN. FATS. CARBOHYDRATBS. 

' * Lean''* of meat^ Fatty and oily Sugar ^ starch , 
giutoH o/wheat^ etc. swtttances. etc. 



55 



■S5 



IJO 2 lbs. 

I 




2.S0 3 lbs. 8.90 4 lbs. 
I I I . i 



5*00 

3«3 
5.00 

ao.oo 






3^ 



--.--a_ 






L. 1 



HILJ 







*» ^p i4 < ^ < n 



•vA^^^^ 



x;:;; 



I 



■JZi 



jz::z 



Standards for daily diet for ( Voit*s, German 

laboring man at moderate < 

work ( Writer^s, American 



1^: 







■"•• t 



•^ I 



.^ 



\V. O. flTWATSB. 



Century Magamine. 

Reprinted by consent. 



Diagram VII.— COMPARATIVE EXPENSIVENESS OF FOODS. 



Cofts of a Pound of Protein and Amounts of Potential Energy Obtained for Twenty-five Cent* 

in Different Food-Materials at Current Marlcet Prioes. 



Kinds o/ Fcod'MaUrials 



Bepf , sirloin 

Beef, sirloin, at lower price 

Beef, round 

Beef, neck 

Mutton, \t!g 

Smoked Ham 

Salt Pork, very fat 

Salmon, early in season 

Salmon, at lower price 

Mackerel 

Codfish 

Salt mackerel 

Salt codfish 

Oysters, at 40 cenU per quart 

Hens^ eggs, at 30 cents per doxen. . 

Milk, at 7 cents per quart 

Cheese, whole milk 

Cheese, skimmed milk 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 

Sugar 

Wheat flour 

Wheat bread 

Corn (maize) meal 

Oatmeal 

Rice 

Beans 

-Potatoes, at 75 cents per bushel.. . 

W. O. Atwatkh. 



Assumed 
pricss 0/ 
pood-ma- 
teriaUPfr 
pcunain 
csnts. 



•as 
.90 

.16 

.08 

.33 

•«4 

.13 

x.oo 

•30 

.xo 

.08 

.laH 

.07 

.ao 

.axj 

•03H 

•»s 

.08 

•30 
•«s 
.07 J 
.03 
.07K 

•03 
•05 
.08 
.05 

•oxM 



The estimated cost (in cents) of one pound of protein in each 
Food-material, when the latter is bought at the market prices as- 
sumed, is expressed by the lengths of the light parallel lines, 
thus: =^=r--s:z^--—~ —A 

The estimated number of calories of potential energy in the 
nutrients (actually nutritive ingredients) contained in the quantity 
of each Food-material which 35 cents would pay for if the ma- 
terial were boug ht at the market p rices assumed, is expressed by 
dark lines, thus : 



{ 



S' 



106 cents... 
870 c&loriet 

C 85 cents... 

\ XX 14 calories 

5 63 cents... 

} XX4S calories 

( 33 cents... 

\ 1793 calones 

5 91 cents... 

\ X076 calories 

V 4D cents... 

\ 3060 caloriies 

•S cents... 

68as calories 

SIX cents... 

X58 calories 

x5) cents... 

5x9 calories 

79 cents... 

999 calories 

'5 cents... 

' calories 

5a cents... 

X807 calories 

43 cents... 

X103 calories 

368 cents... 

3a6 calories 

xsx cents... 

768 calories 
( S3 cents... 
\ 9x78 calories 

^x cents... 
3403 calories 

x8 cents .. 
3643 calories 

no protein. 
3089 calories 
no protein. 
6164 calories 
no protein. 
619a calories 

XX cents... 
1378a calories 

35 cents. . . 
4955 calories 

xa cents... 
13488 calories 

IS cents... 
9x89 calories 

34 cents... 
5068 calories 

X4 cents... 
7630 calorics 

oa cents... 
7689 calories 



{ 



{ 




Century Magazine. 

Reprinted by consent. 



142 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

those which rank as delicacies are the costliest. If he uses the protein of oysters 
to make blood, muscle, and brain, it will cost him from two to three dollars a pound. 
In salmon, if he is enough of a gormand to buy it at the beginning of the season 
at $1 a pound, he will pay at the rate of $5 a pound for his protein. In beef, 
mutton and pork the cost of the protein ranges from a little over a dollar to about 
40 cents a pound. (Salt pork, in which its cost is estimated at 25 cents, contains 
extremely little protein.) In such fish as shad, bluefish, and halibut (which are not 
mentioned in the diagrams), when they are cheap, say from 8 to 12 cents a pound, 
the protein costs about the same as in beef and mutton ; but when the price is 
from 15 to 25 cents, the cost of the protein is from one to two dollars a pound. In 
cod and mackerel, fresh and salted, the protein varies from 30 to 80 cents a pound. 
Salt cod and salt mackerel are generally, fresh cod and fresh mackerel often, and 
even the choice fish, as bluefish and shad, when abundant, cheaper sources of pro- 
tein that any but the cheapest kinds of meat. Among meats, pork is the cheapest ; 
but salt pork or bacon has but very little protein and consists mostly of fat, which, 
though rich in potential energy, and very useful for people who have had hard work 
to do or are exposed to severe cold, is not so appropriate in warm weather or for 
those whose time is spent within doors and whose muscular labor is light. The 
comparative cheapness of cheese is well worth notiL^, and the great economy of 
oleomargarine as compared with butter deserves of more than a passing remark. 

The comparison between wheat flour and potatoes is especially interesting. 
The protein in the wheat flour, at $6 a barrel or 3 cents a pound comes to 11 cents, 
while in potatoes at 50 cents a bushel it costs 15 cents a pound. Estimated in terms 
of potential energy, 25 cents pays for about 14,000 Calories in wheat flour at $6 
a barrel, and 12,000 in potatoes at 50 cents a bushel. The potatoes would have to 
be reduced to 40 cents a bushel to make their nutrients as cheap as those of wheat 
flour at $6 per barrel. Adding to this the fact that the protein of whea.t is the more 
valuable, weight for weight, because that in the potatoes is apparently less digestible 
and certainly of inferior chemical constitution, the showing against potatoes, even 
at this price, is very decided. But in the eastern portion of the United States, at 
any rate, people are very apt to pay 75 cents or $1 a bushel for their potatoes, while 
the flnest wheat flour now sells at 16 a barrel ; and if they are contented with flour 
of the coarser grades, they can have it for less.* 



* At flnt thought this cheapness of wheat floor as compared with potatoes is a little surprising. The natural 
law of supply and demand of such staple materials, in the long run, shapes the price more or less closely to the act- 
ual value for use, and we should expect that the price of potatoes and flour would naturally gravitate to points 
which would make them more nearly equal in actual cheapness. At $10 a harrel, the price of wheat flour a few 
years ago, its protein would cost not far from 18 cents a pound, which would correspond to potatoes at about 60 
cents a bushel. If the price of flour should remain where it now is, we may, perhaps, expect that of potatoes to 



THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 143 

In the United States the tendency to extravagance^ combined with the mistaken 
notion as to the nutritive value of costly food^ causes exception to the rule. Taking 
the world through, however, the poorer communities and classes of people almost 
universally select those foods which chemical analysis shows to supply the actual 
nutrients at the lowest cost. But, unfortunately, the proper proportions of the nu- 
trients in their dietaries are often very defective. Thus in portions of India and 
China rice, in northern Italy maize-meal, in certain districts of Germany and in 
some regions and seasons in Ireland potatoes, and among the poor whites of tlje 
southern United States maize-meal and bacon, make a large part of the sustenance 
of the people. These foods supply the nutrients in the cheapest forms, but they 
are all deficient in protein. The people who live upon them are ill-nourished, and 
suffer physically, intellectually, and morally thereby. 

Finally Prof. Atwater remarks that the Scotchman, as shrewd in his diet 
as in his dealings, finds a most economical supply of protein in oatmeal, had- 
dock, and herring; and the thrifty inhabitants of New England supplement 
the fat of their pork with the protein of beans and the carbohydrates of potatoes^ 
and supplement maize and wheat flour with the protein of codfish and mack- 
erel; and while subsisting largely upon such frugal but rational diets, are well 
nourished, physically strong, and distinguished for their intellectual and moral 
force. 

Mrs. Eichards gives another way of stating the relative cost of some foods which 
is as follows : 

Children and delicate women require food per day sufficient to furnish heat or 
equivalent energy equal to 2,500 to 3,000 Calories. 

Sedentary men and more vigorous women require food per day sufficient to fur- 
nish heat or equivalent energy equal to 3,000 to 3,500 Calories. 

oome down gradually to a point wh«?e the actual expensivenesB of the two will be more nearly the same. Of 
oonrse this Is a matter outside of chemistry, but the little study I have given it leaves me with the decided Im- 
pression that the prices of puch staple food-materials tend to adjust themselves to the nutritive values. 

This statement is apparently In direct contradiction with a fact which these computations brin? out most 
forcibly, to wit. the wide difference between the prices of foods and tiieir values. But these differences have, 
really, a very simple explanation. The prices we pay for many of our food materials are regulated rather by 
their a^ri^eableness to our palates than their values for nourishing our bodies. The sirloin of beef which we 
buy for 25 or 80 cents a pound is really no more nourishing than the shoulder which we get for 10 cents, or the 
neck at 8 cents a pound. In general, only a part, and often a small part, of what we spend for meats and sweet- 
meats goes for the nutriment they contain. The rest, is the price of flavor, tenderness, and other things that 
make them toothsome. Nor does the disparity between animal and vegetable foods conflict with the principle I 
have ventured to lay down. Meats, fish, and the like gratify the palate in ways which most vegetable foods do 
not, and, what is perhaps of still greater weight in regulating the actual usage of communities by whose de- 
mand the prices are regulated, they satisfy a real need by supplying protein and fats, which vegetable foods ladL 
People who can afford it, the world over, will have animal foods and will compete Aith one another in the prices 
they give for them. These facts put the choicer animal foods outside the action of the law, if it be a law, that 
price and nutritive value tend to run parallel. 



Diagram IV.— POTENTIAL ENERGY OF FOOD. 



CALORIES IN THE NUTRIENTS IN ONE POUND OF EACH FOOD-MATERIAL. 



Beef, round, rather lean. 807 

Beef, neck 1108 

Beef, sirloin, rather fat 1x73 

Beef, flank, very fat 3750 

Beef, side, well fattened 1463 

Mutton, leg 1x43 

Matton, shoulder zaBx 

Mutton, loin (chops) 1755 

Mutton, side, well fattened ^9°^ 

Smoked ham 1960 

Pork, very fat 3452 , 

Flounder a86 

Cod 3»o 

Haddock 331 

Bluefish 404 

Mackerel, rather lean 430 

Mackerel, very fat ioa6 

Mackerel, average 696 

Shad 750 

Salmon 967 

Salt cod 4x6 

Salt mackerel 1364 

Smoked herring 1343 

Canned salmon 1036 

Oysters aag 

Mens* eggs 760 

Cows* milk 308 

Cows* milk, sldmmed 176 

Cheese, whole milk 9044 

Cheese, skimmed milk iz66 

Butter 3691 

Oleomargarine 3679 

Wheat flour 1655 

Wheat bread 1278 

Rye flour 1614 

Beans X5X9 

Pease .• . . X476 

Oatmeal 1830 

Corn (maize) meal 16x6 

Rice 1637 

Sugar X798 

Potatoes 437 

Sweet Potatoes 416 

Turnips 139 




The potential energy represents simply the fuel value of the food, and hence is only an 
incomplete measure of its whole nutritive value. Besides serving as fuel, our food has other 
uses, one of which isj if possible, still more important, namely, that of forming and repairing the 
tissues of the body, the parts of the machine. 



W. O. ATWAxaa. 



Century Mtigaztn*. 

Reprinted by consent. 



THE 80IE:ffOB OF NUTRITiaN. 



145 



Hard-working robust men require food per day sufficient to furnish heat or 
equiyalent energy eqtial to 3,500 to 4,000 Oalories. 

The average family, per person, probably requires food per day sufficient to fur- 
nish heat or equivalent energy equal to 3,000 Calories. 

But foods differ not only in their power of furnishing heat or equivalent energy, 
but also in their cost, and since in general half the average earnings of the working 
man are spent for food it is extremely desirable to know what foods furnish the 
most heat or equivalent energy for the least money. The following table shows the 
cost of an amount of different food material sufficient to furnish heat or equivalent 
energy enough for the average member of a family per day. The amount of food 
required is assumed to be sufficient to furnish 3,000 Calories of heat or equiva- 
lent energy per day. Of course if the prices change the cost per day wiU change 
proportionately : 

TABLE ir. 
Bhowino the Oo0T of 8,000 Oalobiis obtainxd fbom DnrrBBENT Food Materials. 



FOOD MATDUALS. 

Suet at 6 cents a pound, 

Potatoes at 80 cents a bushel, }i cent a ponnd, 

Ooru Meal at 8 cents a pouhd, 

Flour at 4 cents a pound, or $7.50 a barrel. 

Flour at 5 cents a pound, or $1. 50 a bag. 

Potatoes at 50 cents a bushel or 1 ei^nt a pound, 

Su^ar at 6 cents a pound, 

Beef, from shin and flank, 4 cents a pound, 

Sausage, Bacon and Ham, at 12 or 12 >{ cents a pound, 

Beans and Pease at 8 to 10 cents a quart, 

Sui?ar at 8 cents a pound, 

Rice at 8 cents a pound, 

Skimmed Milk at 2 cents a quart. 

Parts of Beef, Mutton or Pork, pretty fat, 8 to 10 cents a pound. 

Potatoes at 11.25 a bushel, 

Skimmed Milk at 8 cents a quart. 

Apples at 45 cents a peck. 

Batter at 35 cents a pound, 

Milk at 7 cents a quart, 

Cheese at 14 cents a pound, 

^reen Vegetables at 6 cents a pound, 

Beef, medium fat, with 15 per cent, bone, at 16|^ cents a pound. 

Eggs at 18 cents a dosen. 



COST IN 0ENT& 

4.40 

6.00 

5.48 

7.26 

0.09 
10.00 
10.41 
12.00 
12.78 
18.86 
18.92 
16.69 
17.81 
20.00 
20.60 
25.62 
27.80 
80.74 
84.74 
86.88 
61.60 
100.00 
106.60 



146 THE 8GIEN0E OF NUTRITION. 

From the above table it is clearly evident that suet, corn meal and flour, are at 
present prices, the cheapest kinds of food, but it must not be supposed that the 
above table teaches that we could live on single articles of food, suet alone for ex- 
ample, notwithstanding it would furnish the necessary energy and is cheap. With 
the exception of wheat, milk, eggs, and possibly one or two other articles, no single 
food contains all the elements in the right proportion. We need what are called 
nitrogenous foods, among which may be mentioned wheat, lean meats, pease and 
beans. We also need energy-producing foods, among which may be mentioned suet, 
butter, flour, corn meal, potatoes, sugar, etc. We also need mineral matter which 
is usually obtained in proper amount from the meats and vegetables. We also need 
water and air as well as flavors which make things taste good. The flavors are com- 
monly developed during the cooking of the food, but we also often add flavors, such 
as vanilla, lemon, banana, etc. The air and water are from the common supply. 

Lists or statements showing the proper combinations of different articles of 
food are called Bills of Fare, or more properly Dietaries, and much study is now 
being put on this subject. 

For the most exhaustive study of nutrition in relation to cost and quantity 
and working power produced, see the pamphlet " Die Ernahrung der Uandweber 
im Zittau/' von Dr. Carl von Rechenberg, Leipzig, 1890. 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 147 

In the following table the scientific standard of adequate nutrition for a person in 
good health is given. In other parts of this work, the foreign standards of Voit, Playfair 
and others have been submitted — each varying somewhat in the proportions of protein^ 
starch and fat, but all substantially agreeing in the Calories, or mechanical units of heat; 
which are the measure of the fuel value of the food. 

Professor Atwater makes his standard larger than the European ones, partly because 
we waste more, but chiefly because we live and ought to live on a higher nutritive plane. 
We work harder than people do in Europe and accomplish more and need more food ta 
do it. 

In fitting diet to the demands of people of different occupations, sex, and age, the 
main point is to supply enough protein to build up the bodily machine and keep it in 
repair, and enough fuel to run it well. Fat, starch and sugar are the chief fuel materials. 
It is not necessary to follow the exact amounts of fats and carbohydrates of the standards 
so long as there is enough of the two together for fuel. Either may be increased and the 
other diminished in corresponding amount. One part by weight of fats corresponds in fuel 
value to two and a quarter parts of sugar and starch. 

These standards and the foregoing table are based on the customary supply of food- 
material by purchase, and not upon the exact amounts digested and assimilated. That is 
to say, if persons desire to adjust their consumption of food to true average conditions, 
they may purchase the quantities of food in the several varieties necessary to yield the true 
proportions of protein, and fuel value called for by the standard according to occupation 
and sex. If tliese quantities are combined, cooked and served with fair intelligence on 
ordinary present methods, they will yield the right proportions to the digestive organs, a 
margin being allowed both in the tables and in the dietaries which are based upon them 
for the considerable element of waste which is now customary in the cooking and in the 
serving of the food. If nutrition could be governed by exact and scientific rules under 
uniform conditions, all these standards could be much reduced ; but such conditions are not 
to be expected. The standards may, therefore, be said to be loaded with a margin for the 
waste, particularly of people who are inteUigent and purely economical. 

Again, these standards must be raised to meet the gross waste of ignorant people, and 
for the very bad cooking which prevails. Such tables can only serve as a general guide 
in Individual cases, but may govern the selection of food-material in institutions in which 
large numbers of persons can be supplied with food by rule. 



148 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 



AMOUNTS OF NUTRIENTS FURNISHED FOR TWENTY-FIVE CENTS IN FOOD-MATERIALS 

AT ORDINARY PRICES. 





Prices per 
pound. 


25 CENTS WTI.T. PAY FOB — 


KOOD-MATEBI A LH. 
AS PUBCHAHF.I). 


Total food 
materials. 


• 

NUTRIENTS. 


uel 
lue. 




Total. 


Protein. 


Fats. 


Carbohy- 
draiea. 





Beef, sirloin 

Beef, sirloin 

Beef, sirloin 

Beef, sirloin 

Beef, round 

Beef, round 

Beef, round 

Beef, neck 

Beef, neck 

Beef, neck 

Mutton, leg 

Mutton, leg 

Mutton, leg 

Uain, smoked .... 
Ham, smoked .... 

Salt piirk 

Salt pork 

Salt pork 

Cod, fresh 

Cod, fresh 

Cod, dried, salt .... 
Cod, dried, salt .... 
Mackerel, salt .... 
Mackerel, bait .... 
Oysters, 25 cents a quart 
Oysters, 36 cents a quart 
Oysters, 50 cents a quart 
Eggs, 15 cents per dozen 
Eggs, 25 cents per dozen 
Eggs, 35 cents per dozen 
Milk, 3 cents per quart . 
Milk, cents per quart . 
Milk, 8 cents per quart . 
Cheese, vrhole milk . . 
Cheese, whole milk . . 
Cheese, whole milk . . 
Cheese, pkim milk . . 
Cheese, skim milk . . 
Cheese, skim milk . . 

Butter 

Butter 

Butter 



Cents. 

10 
15 
20 
25 

8 
12 
16 

4 

6 

8 

8 
14 
20 
10 
16 
10 
14 
18 

6 
10 

6 

8 
10 
15 
12.5 
17.5 
25 

8.8 
14.7 
20.0 

1.5 

3 

4 
12 
15 
18 

6 

8 
10 
15 
25 
35 



Pounds. 

2.50 
1.67 
1.25 
1.00 
3.13 
2.08 
1.56 
6.25 
4.17 
3.13 
3.13 
1.79 
1.25 
2.50 
1.56 
2.50 
1.79 
1.39 
4.17 
2.50 
4.17 
3.13 
2.50 
1.67 
2.00 
1.43 
1.00 
2.84 
1.70 
1.21 
16.67 
SM 
6.26 
2.08 
1.67 
1.39 
4.17 
3.13 
2.50 
1.67 
1.00 
.71 



Pounds. 

.79 

.52 

.39 

.31 

.95 

.63 

.47 

1.85 

1.23 

.93 

.96 

.55 

.38 

1.23 

.77 

2.09 

1.50 

1.16 

.45 

.27 

.68 

.51 

.74 

.49 

.24 

.17 

.12 

.63 

.38 

.27 

2.05 

1.02 

.77 

hm 

1.09 

.91 
2.25 
1.69 
1.35 
1.45 

.86 

.61 



Pounds. 

.38 

.25 

.19 

.15 

.56 

.37 

.28 

.98 

.65 

.49 

.47 

.27 

.19 

.37 

.23 

.02 

.02 

.01 

.44 

.27 

.67 

.50 

.37 

.24 

.13 

.09 

.06 

.21 

.15 

.60 

.30 

-23 

-59 

.47 

.39 
1.60 
1.20 

.96 

.02 

.01 

.01 



Pounds. 

.41 

.27 

.20 

.16 

.39 

.26 

.19 

.87 

.58 

.44 

.49 

.28 

.19 

.80 

.54 
2.07 
1.48 
1.15 

.01 

.01 
.01 
.37 
.25 
.03 
.02 
.02 
.29 
.17 
.12 
.67 
.23 
.25 
.74 
.59 
.49 
.28 
.21 
.17 
1.42 
.85 
.60 



Pounds. 



.08 
.06 
.04 



.78 
.39 
.29 
.03 
.03 
.03 
.37 
.28 
.22 
.01 



Calories. 

2425 
1620 
1215 
970 
2675 
1780 
1336 
5500 

;^70 

2755 
2925 
1675 
1170 
4340 
2705 
8776 
6286 
4880 

855 

510 
1315 

986 
2276 
1620 

620 

370 

260 
1860 
1116 

790 
5420 
2706 
20:^ 
4:305 
3155 
2876 
4860 
3646 
2910 
6035 
3615 
2566 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 



149 



AMOUNTS OF NUTEIENT8 FURNISHED FOR TWENTY-FIVE CENTS IN FOOD-MATERIALS 

AT ORDINARY PRICES. — Continued, 



FOOIX-MATKBIALS. 
AS PURCHASED. 




25 CENTS WILL PAY FOB— 



"^4 

O c3 



NUTRIENTS. 



Total. 



Protein. 



Fats. 



Carbohy- 
drates. 






Sugar 

Sugar 

Wheat flour 

Wheat flour 

Wheat flour 

Wheat bread 

Wheat bread 

Wheat bread , 

Corn meal 

Corn meal 

Oat meal 

Oat meal 

Rice ... 

Rice 

Beans 

Potatoes, 46 cents per bushel .... 
Potatoes, 60 cents per bushel .... 
Potatoes, 90 cents per bushel .... 



Cents. 


Poands. 


6 


6.00 


7 


3.67 


2 


12.60 


2.6 


10.00 


3 


8.:« 


3 


8.33 


6 


6.00 


8 


3.13 


2 


12.60 


3 


8.3:^ 


3 


8.33 


6 


6.00 


6 


4.17 


8 


3.13 


6 


6.00 


0.76 


33.a3 


1 


26.00 


1.5 


16.67 



Pounds. 

4.89 
3.50 

10.87 
8.70 
7.24 
6.56 
3.34 
2.09 

10.45 
6.97 
7.61 
4.62 
3.64 
2.73 
4.22 
6.70 
4.27 
2.86 



Pounds. 



1.37 

1.10 
.91 
.73 
.44 
.28 

1.16 
.77 

1.22 
.74 
.31 
.23 

1.16 
.60 
.46 
.30 



Poands. 


Pounds. 


_ 


4.89 


•^ 


3.60 


.14 


9.36 


.11 


7.49 


.09 


6.24 


.14 


4.69 


.08 


2.82 


.06 


1.76 


.47 


8.83 


.32 


6.88 


.69 


6.70 


.36 


3.42 


.02 


3.31 


.01 


2.49 


.10 


2.96 


.03 


6.07 


.02 


8.80 


.02 


2.53 

1 



Calories. 

9100 

6496 

20666 

16460 

13706 

10660 

6400 

4006 

20666 

13706 

16370 

9226 

6796 

6100 

8076 

10666 

8000 

6336 



DIETARY STANDARDS. 

Man with light exercise 

Man with moderate muscular work . 
Man at active muscular work . . . 



Pounds. 


Pounds. 


Poands. 


Poands. 


1.82 


.22 


.22 


.88 


1.66 


.28 


.28 


.99 


1.76 


.33 


.83 


1.10 



Calories. 

2980 
3620 
4060 



1 



150 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



Ill tlie compilation of the twelve dietaries for thirty days which have been pre- 
Tiously given with directions for their preparation, the following food values were 
the basis of the computation. ^ 

In this table the value is kept under rather than over the limit, and is intended 
to be available for any part of the country. 



Article of Food. 



Apples .... 
Bacoii .... 

Beaiid 

Beef, shin and sh'ld'r 

Beeta , 

Butter . . . . , 

Bread 

CHbbHge 

Cheese . . . . , 
Corn Meal .... 
CoilflMh, salt . . . 
Corne<i Reef, lean . 
Corn«»d Beef, fat . . 
Crushed Wheat . . 
Fresh Fish .... 

Eggs 

Flour, white . . . 
Flour, -whole . . . 



Per 

cent. 

ProteJd. 



10.00 

24.40 

20.00 

1.26 

1.00 

7.nO 

2.00 

30 00 

9.60 

22.08 

2!. 40 

2.00 

11.04 

12.00 

12.60 

11.00 

12.U0 



Per 
cent. 
Fat. 



TO-JiO 
160 
4.00 

86.60 
0.50 
0.60 

3100 
4.00 
2.20 

18.00 

77.80 
1.26 
0.3'» 

12 00 
1.30 
2.'0 



Per cent. 
Carbohydrate. 


Calories 

per 
Pound. 


Starch. 


Sugar. 


13. 


85 




51.60 


29G0 
1650 


0.10 


8.00 


620 

100 


52.60 


4.00 


3616 
1160 



6. 



60 



69.00 



69.00 
0.66 



190 
1780 
1650 
1-188 
1106 
V9G0 
1650 
2.10 
705 
1660 
1650 



Article of Food. 



Ham . . . 
Hominy . . 
Liver . . . 
Maccaroni . 
Milk, whole 
Milk, skim . 
Mutton, neck 
Oatmeal 
Pork . 
Potatoes 
Pease . 
Klce . 
Sausage 
Squash 
.Huet . 
Sugar . 
Turnips 
Veal . 



Per 

oent. 
Proteld. 



24 00 
950 

20 00 
8.50 
3.20 
4.00 

15.50 

1400 
2.60 
200 

28.00 
7.40 

18.00 
089 



1.60 
19.00 



Per 
oent. 
Fat 



90.60 
4.00 
5.00 
0.8 
8.90 
0.90 
850 
700 

77.80 

2.00 
0.40 

40.00 
006 

89.00 

0.14 
800 



Per cent. 
Carbohydrate. ' Calories 

Pound. 



.Starch. 



69. 
75. 

68. 

21. 
58. 

79. 

4. 
1.M 



Sugar. 



00 



00 



4.80 
4.70 



60 

00 
00 
00 

00 

96.60 
8.00 



1666 

1660 

600 

1660 

296 

201 

619 

1660 

8160 

480 

1650 

1870 

,1834 

160 

8600 

1800 

100 

462 



Illustrative of this study of diet is given below the actual amount and variety 
of food eaten by a man and a woman on a certain day, with calculations of the 
amount of energy (expressed in Calories) contained in the food, together with the 
relative amounts of the different nutrients: 

Sunday, February 22, 1890. 



MAN. 

Ounces. 
4 

}< 

H 

% 
8 

10 

yi 

4 



BREAKFAST. 

Milk, 

Flour Griddle Oakes, 

Syrup, 

Butter, 

Cheese, 

Cream, 

Coffee, 

Sugar, 

Oatmealy 

Water, 



WOBIAN. 
Ounces. 
6 
4 

8 

taste 
5 




36^ 



U^ 



THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



151 




7H 



5 -|- 1 oz. sugar 
I -|~ ^ oz. sugar 

1 


6 



99f 
5 



Calculation of the above : 



DINNER. 

Cold Corned Beef, 

Fat Beef, 

Veeetables, Parsnip, Beet, Turnip, 

Baked Potato, 

Bread, 

Butter, 

Fruit, 

Nuts, 

Raisins, 

Water, - 



B UPPER. 

Pear Sauce, 

Bread, 

Cookie, 

Butter, 

Crackers a«. bedtime, 

Water, 

Milk, 



WOMAN. 
Oqhow. 

5 

9| -|- 2^ oz. waste. 



H 

Orange 4 -}- ^ oz. waste. 



12 

A -f ^ oz* sugar* 



12 




Less Waste, 



1 

66| 



^ 




MAN. 






Grms. Albamen. 


Fatt. 


Sngar. 8Uuroh. 


Orms. Total. 




4.5 


8.9 


4.5 


112. 


Milk. 


2.5 


10.1 


2.5 


84. 


Cream. 


0.4 


32.9 




38. 


Butter. 


2.1 


2.2 




7. 


Cheese. 


6.4 


0.5 


51.4 


91. 


Bread. 


28.6 


6.3 




84. 


Beef. 


S9. 




54. 


56. 


Sugar. 


2. 




41.2 


196. 


Potato. 






15.4 


154. 


Vegetables. 




14. 




14. 


Fat in Beef. 


10.5 




85.0 


70. 


Griddle Cakes. 


11.2 


5.6 


50.8 


822. (80 dry) 
18. 


OatmeaL 
Cookies. 


4.5 


15. 


9.7 


28. 


Kuts. 


1.4 
2.0 


1.5 
0.1 


17. 


196. 


Fruit {Appje. 




92.1 


15.8 


28. 
1,498. 


Crackers. 


80.0 


297.8 


Calories 2,884. 



152 THE SOIBNGE OF NUTRITION. 



Grms. Albumen. 


Fatfl. 


13.4 


11.8 


0.4 


1.7 


O.b 


48.4 


2.1 


2.2 


3.4 


OS 


14.3 


3.2 


3.9 




1.8 




16.8 




4.9 


2.5 


1.1 


3.7 



WOMAN. 
Sugar. Staroh. QrniB. Total. 

18.4 836. Milk. 

0.4 14. Cream. 

56. Butter. 

7. Cheese. 

27.7 49. Bread. 

42. Beef. 

83.8 35. Sugar. 

41.2 196. Pototo. 

14. 140. Vegetables. 

0. Fat Beef. 

56.0 112. Griddle Cakea 

22.2 140. (35 dry) Oatmeal. 

7. Nuts. 



18.3 210. 



Fruit IJ!**"- 

( Orauges. 



62.7 73.8 227.0 1,344. Calories 1,859. 

Since our American Standard dietary calls for 125 grams Albumen, 125 grams 
Fats^ 450 grams Sugar and Starch, it will be seen that the amount was insufficient 
although the ratio of the weights 186 to 145 was about right: 1 pound of food 
for each 35 pounds of body weight. 

The raison d'etre of all this modern talk on cooking is that we may have better 
health ; our civilization is being the death of us. 

THE EVIDENCES OF GOOD HEALTH. 

How shall we know if we are in our best condition ? 

First, we shall not be thinking about it at all. We shall not mind about the 
quality of our food very much. Life will hold other pleasures for us. 

Mere motion, action, work, that is, use of muscular power, brings a delightful 
sense of life and force. The healthy workman goes to his day's work with vigor in 
his step, the schoolboy to his desk with eagerness. 

If we find ourselves sluggish and tired in the morning it is because something 
is wrong. The standard of good health is for all alike the consciousness of power. 
We ask, How* much power of work is there in the food we eat? — how much food do 
we need for a day's work? We call ihiB power^ ENEROT, and we reckon the force 
in Calories, that is in the mechanical equivalent of heat. This is the starting point 
of all our modern work in dietetics. 

The modern standard, then, of good health is energy, power to do work; and by 
work we mean thinkings inventing, painting, writing, just as much as swinging a 
sledge hammer. 



THE SOIEKOE OF KUTBITIOK. lo3 

It is no longer a sin to be well and strong as it was in the days of the monas- 
teries and hermits ; man's ambition is no longer to be dyspeptic enough to see visions 
and dream dreams. 

THE ESSENTIALS OF GOOD HEACTH. 

What then is necessary to maintain this standard of physical strength ? Oood 
digestion waits on appetite. Exercise is the best sauce. 

A sound firm has credit at the bank. A little pinch for money does not seriously 
disturb it ; if one customer does not pay another does. 

When a business house has to call on all it possesses day by day it is on the verge 

of bankruptcy. A sound man has a store of health, as it were, to fall back upon. 

He can bear cold and wet and hunger for a day or two, readily. When a little 

change in diet, a change in temperature o&' Lnmidity seriously disturbs a man's 

health he is nearly or quite bankrupt. 

E. H. R. 



THE RUMFORD KITCHEN LEAFLETS. 

No. 7. 



THE FOOD OF SCHOOL CHILDREN AND YOUNG STUDENTS. 

Writteu for the Bumford Kitchen by Ellen H. Richards. 

The accompanying diagram, showing approximately the amounts of the three chief 
chksses of food-stuffs which are required for human nutrition at the different ages, points 
most clearly to the great importance of care during the school age. Wlien children are 
free to roam they forage for themselves to a great extent, and although they may eat un- 
wisely, yet such is their power of assimilation, that comparatively little harm comes of it. 
They satisfy their hunger and grow strong through incessant activity. 

But children in school are more or less like animals in captivity, and the question of 
their food should be as carefully studied. For our town and city schools particularly, 
there are inevitable difficulties to be overcome only through a wise adjustment of facts to 
the conditions. 

The long distance to be travelled by some necessitates leaving home early ; therefore 
the breakfast is often hurried for fear of being late to school. Owing to a lack of fresh 
air in the sleeping-rooms the morning appetite of many children is capricious, and there- 
fore the breakfast taken is insufficient in quantity, or inadequate in quality, even when 
time enough is allowed. 

The thoughtful mother puts up a luncheon, usually of the things her child likes best : 
cake, pies, and cookies. The careless mother may or may not fill the luncheon basket. 

The child is a young animal as well as a young scholar, and at an age when all other 
young animals eat almost constantly while awake, and sleep half the time in periods alter- 
nating with those of eating ; this young creature goes in haste to school, sits in a fixed 
position, if not in a cramped one, breathes more or less vitiated air for four or five hours 
a day, with comparatively short intervals of exercise, and very little of that out of doors. 

Comparatively few mothers really know how much, children eat, for, as was said al)ove, 
they forage for themselves to a great extent, and if a luncheon is put up for the child it 
often happens that it is eaten up hours before it was supposed to be required, and then 
there is nothing left for the regular luncheon time, and the child goes hungry for too long 



Copyright, 1S03, by Ellen H. Richabds. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 155 

a time. Four meals a day are recommended as best for children, and the school lunch 
should serve as one of these. 

The need of spme better provision for the food of young children, who are kept so 
far away from the base of supplies for so many hours of the day, is imperative ; for insuf- 
ficient nutrition (a very different thing from insufficient food) has quite as much to do 
with the frequent breaking down of the child as over-stimulation in study ; in fact, over-stimu- 
lation in study is probably possible only in the case of an insufficiently nourished scholar. 
The healthy, rosy-cheeked child is too much of an animal, contented with life, to be driven 
to over-exertion in study. 

An examination of the diagram will show that the actual weight of food which a 
child two to four years old needs is already about one-fourth that of the active working 
age. The rapid rise in tissue-forming albuminoids, and in the activity-giving carbohy- 
drates from the tenth year after a slight equilibrium from the fourth to the tenth is most 
instructive. At the age of nine or ten, then, just when the child is in the grammar school, 
begins a period of great activity which seems to exert a marked influence in perfecting 
the development belonging to the next stage. A child of twelve to fifteen requires as 
much food in actual weight as a person in the prime of life at fifty to sixty, and only a 
little less than a hard-working man. Insufficient food at these ages causes more serious 
consequences than at a later period. 

The confinement of the child in the school-room for long at a time should not be 
tolerated during these years ; and not only a recess but a suitable luncheon should be in- 
sisted on when children leave home by or before eight o'clock, and do not reach home 
until half-past twelve or one or even two o'clock. 

It is^ time that a vigorous protest was made against the claim that over-Study in 
school is the cause of all the evils of school life. Let a careful examination be made of 
the facts as to food and exercise before a tmiversal condemnation of our intellectual meth- 
ods of education is allowed. 

It has for a long time been considered desirable that a good nutritious hot luncheon, 
or some bread and milk, should be served in the middle of the morning ; but the way to 
the practical attainment of this has not seemed open. The chocolate and cakes sold at 
many of the school-houses help slightly ; but there is need for something more systemati- 
cally planned. 

Tliis question of ways and means has come up in reference to the -plan which is grow- 
ing in favor, in New England at least, of bringing the children to a central graded school, 
instead of having a number of ungraded schools in widely separated sections of the town. 

The penny dinners of the English schools are out of the question in America, not on 
account of the cost of material, but on account of our standard of living, and conse- 
quently the increased cost of serving food in an acceptable manner. 



156 THE SCIENCE OF MUTBITION. 

Sufficient and nutritious luncheon can be furnished to the pupils of a large school for 
from three to five cents each, but from our present knowledge, it would require about a 
ten-cent luncheon to satisfy the taste of the American scholar. 

In order to help solve this question, among others, luncheons were served daily for 
the winter of 1892-93 to the pupils of the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics. This 
was done at the request of Miss A. M. Homans, the director, whose long connection with 
the School Kitchens, as well as her present interest in physical training, led-her to a just 
appreciation of the value of this factor in education ; and to her enthusiasm and efficient 
management the success of the plan is due. 

Although these students were young women, and not grammar-school children, yet a 
general method of procedure has been outlined, and a suggestion, at least, obtained of 
some possible methods of obtaining the desired results. 

The composition and food value of these luncheons may be studied from the follow* 
ing table, showing one month's supply. 

The practical results of suiting the taste of the pupils within the stipulated price of 
fifteen cents per luncheon delivered at the school-house were obtained before the theoreti- 
cal calculation of the actual values was made. The figures show that it b possible, with 
such a knowledge of the composition of food-stuffs as the manager of the New England 
Kitchen, Miss S. £. Wentworth, possesses, to approximate very closely to required con- 
ditions without an elaborate series of analyses or computations. 

The luncheon is designed to furnish one-fourth of the total food value for the day. 

For comparison is given one-fourth of the two standard rations. 

Voit ration 

American ration . . • • • 



Proteld. 


Fats. 


Garbohydratat. 


Caloric 


24.6 grams. 


14 grams. 


125 grams. 


742 


81.2 " 


81.2 " 


114 « 


882 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



157 



STATBMEirr ov Ovx Mouth's Lukchbons Sbbyed to Stdobnts (Woxbb) Five Days in the Wbek, bb- 

OIKiriNO FbBBUABT 1, BVDIKO Febbuaby 28, 1883. 



Feb. 1. 

Beef Broth 

2 Rolls . . . 

Gingerbread . 

Batter . . . 
Feb. 2. 

Baked Beans . 

Brown Bread . 

IRoll . . . 

Butter . . . 

1 Orange . . 
Feb. 3. 

Escalloped Meat 

Rolls .... 

Batter . . . 

Apple Sauoe . 
Feb. e. 

Vegetable Soap 

Roils .... 

Butter . . . 

Aprloot Saaoe 
Feb. 7. 

Potato Soap . 

Rolls .... 

Butter . . . 

2 Baked Apples 
Feb. 8. 

Pea Soup . . 

Rolls .... 

Batter . . . 

Apple Cake . 
Feb. 9. 

Beef Hash . . 

Rolls .... 

Butter . . . 

Apple Sauoe . 
Feb. 10. 

Oyster Soup . 

Rolls .... 

Batter . . . 

Prone Sauce . 
Feb. 13. 

Beef Croquetts 

Potato Croquetts 

Rolls .... 

Batter . . . 

Baked Apples 
Feb. 14. 

Fish Chowder 

Rolls .... 

Butter . . . 

1 Orange . . 



• 


Food Yalub in 
Gbams. 


 

1 


• 

1 


• 

2 


Carbohy- 
drates. 



9.4^ 
4.0 
4.0 
0.7 



10.01 
4.0 1 

0.7 f 
6.5 J 



26.3 



26.3 



32.2 



20.0 



16.0 



23.6 



33.1 



20.9 



16.8 



22.2 



20.4 



86.6 



26.8 



20.9 



24.9 



35.4 



24.0 



25.9 



22.7 



30.0 



128.4 



131.4 



138.8 



92.1 



131.5 



126.1 



136.5 



106.0 



111.4 



101.2 



817.5 



979.3 



942.6 



648.2 



826.1 



935.3 



911.8 



762 J( 



738.8 



778.1 







Food Yalub in 






• 

! 

a 


Grams. 






• 

•o 

1 


^ 


II 


 

1 




B 


£ 


£ 


S^ 


3 



Feb. 15. 

Tomato Soup . 

BoUs 

Butter .... 

Doughnuts • . 
Feb. 16. 

Escalloped Fish 

Rolls . . . 

Batter . . . 

Baked Apples 
Feb. 17. 

Baked Beans 

Brown Bread 

IRoU . . . 

Batter . . . 

1 Orange . . 
Feb. 20. 

Com Soup . 

Bolls . . . 

Butter . . . 

Apple Sauce 
Feb. 21. 

Beef Broth . 

Rolls . . . 

Batter . . . 

Gingerbread 
Feb.S. 

Bake<l Beans 

Brown Bread 

IRoll . . . 

Batter . . . 

1 Orange . . 
Feb. 23. 

Escalloped Oysters 

Rolls 

Batter 

Buns 

Feb. 24. 

Tomato Soup . . 

Rolls 

Butter 

Baked Apples . . 
Feb. 27. 

Potato Soap . . . 

Rolls 

Batter 

Lemon Jelly . . 
Feb. 28. 

Pea Soup .... 

Rolls 

Butter 

Apple Cake . . . 



97 
4.0 
0.7 
3.5 

4.01 
40 
0.7 
8.0 

8.4 
4.2 
2.0 
0.7 
5.3 



1.0 I 



9. 
4. 

•.T 

8.0 J 



9.61 
4.01 

0.7 r 

6.0 j 



9.81 
40 
0.7 
4.0 



19.1 



26.8 



26.3 



13.6 



26.8 



26.3 



24.0 



16.0 



19.1 



23.6 



26.3 



24.0 



35.6 

« 



23.1 



20.4 



35.6 



34.0 



19.5 



24.9 



36.4 



109.0 



109.8 



131.4 



107.0 



128.4 



131.4 



115.2 



108.4 



139.7 



126.1 



738i) 



777.2 



979.3 



704.2 



817.6 



979.3 



880.3 



681.8 



875.9 



935.3 



ATerage 



22.8 



27.1 



120.2 



827.4 



158 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

This table illustrates the combinations which proved successful in the case of this set 
of individuals. A still more instructive table would be that showing the combinations 
theoretically far better which failed to please the taste ; but until a wider range of experi- 
ence has shown how far local prejudice may be overcome by a little patience and educa- 
tion, it is not worth while to emphasize the failures. All that is here intended is to show 
that it is possible to serve nutritious and palatable luncheons to large numbers of people, 
with a sufficient variety to keep up the appetite. In the spring, a change was made to 
some lighter dbhes, and a further study of possible variations is in progress. No other 
accessory — such as tea or coffee — was served in this case. With a few slight changes in 
the way of substituting less costly stews for the oysters, these luncheons could be served 
in quantity for a large school for ten cents each. 

Those interested in this question will find two most valuable papers on the growth of 
school children, by Dr. Henry P. Bowditch, one in the eighth annual report (1877, page 
275), the other in the twenty-second annual report (1891, page 479), of the State Board 
of Health of. Massachusetts. 

The curves here given, showing the increase in height and weight of Boston school- 
children, coincide in a very marked degree with those on the accompanying diagram. 

It is, however, characteristic of the hitherto prevailing feeling in regard to food, that, 
in this exhaustive paper, no mention is made of the influence on the physical develop- 
ment of children which food exerts ; and yet no question is of more importance both for 
the school committee and for the teacher to consider. 

It may be argued that the school has no right to interfere with the home life and 
habits ; but surely the director of physical training has a right to refuse to allow girls to 
exercise in corsets, and has not the teacher as much right to refuse to urge on in study a 
starved boy ? The schools are potent factors in developing the general ideas of the peo- 
ple, as well as in teaching arithmetic to the children ; and with the increasing sociological 
tendencies of the times an ever-widening field of influence is here offered. 

THE FOOD OF STUDENTS. 

Second only in importance to the food of the child is that of the youth in the second- 
ary school and the college. 

A glance at the accompanying diagram will show that during the years of student 
life the normal development of the body requires an excess of food, and that, if the brain 
is not to be developed at the expense of the hody^ a jealous watch must be kept over the 
food of the young brain-worker. 

This care must take into consideration two points — sufficient quantity and availa- 
hility ; for it is not what is eaten, but what is digested^ which nourishes, and the young 



SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 159 

student cannot well afford two hours of rest after each meal to allow the hard work of the 
stomach to be finished before that of the brain begins. 

If double work is required of a horse, he is given double feed. All work is one ; 
work means expenditure of energy, whether in thinking or in lifting weights ; the only 
source of human energy is the food which is assimilated and made a part of the body tis- 
sues (a very different thing from the food eaten). 

This fact is now perfectly well established, and it should be recognized by all educa- 
tors, that good thinking^ like good ronring, requires proper feeding, 

THE DIETARY OP THE COLLEGE STUDENT 

Should be a subject of careful study by every college faculty, and as great care should be 
exercised in selecting the steward, who is in fact to determine the mental standard of all 
the students, as in selecting the professor of Greek or History. When the academic world 
becomes convinced of the importance of this factor we shall see a race of American stu- 
dents far outstripping all others. 

It would be* of great advantage to have a friendly rivalry in regard to this side of 
college life. 

WHAT SHOULD BE THE QUANTITY AND CHARACTER OP THE FOOD OP THE 

AMERICAN COLLEGE STUDENT? 

It depends upon many circumstances, chiefly upon whether there is a necessity of 
economy in time, in money, or in mental power. 

It is because of the remarkable adaptability of the Anglo-Saxon race to climate and 
to food that it has been able to girdle the globe. Hence it has come to be a belief that 
man could eat anything and everything, and that his food was of less consequence than 
anything else. Certain unmistakable signs, however, point to the fact that there is a 
limit to this adaptability, or at least to the speed with which it may be safely accom- 
plished. The latter is the more probable reason. A family is now able to entirely change 
its surroundings in a few days to a degree which formerly required years to accomplish. 

In order to gain even a little light on this question, another experiment was tried 
during the same year (1892), in order to determine the amount and character of food 
taken by students at hard work (mostly young men of eighteen to twenty-two), when 
they had a certain range of choice. A lunch-room patronized by between three and four 
hundred was furnished with the same soups, bread, rolls and baked beans as those sent to 
the young women. In addition, pies, cakes, cold meats and salads were furnished ; also 
coffee, milk, and chocolate. Instead of a definite luncheon for a fixed price, each portion 
was served separately and the student made up his own list, thus giving a wide range of 
selection. For a term or half-year, beginning September 26, 1892, and ending January 9, 
1893, a careful account was kept of the food used. 






160 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

Althbogh the figures must be accepted as only approximate, owing to the fact that 
the composition of the pies, cakes, etc., made outside the New England Kitchen can only 
be estimated and not accurately calculated, yet they are sufficiently correct to furnish a 
basis for further work. The average amount spent for lunches was 21 cents — ranging 
from 15 to 30 cents. 

The average food-value per person was : 

Proteld. Fat. . Carbohydrates. Calories. 

29 grams. 87.8 grams. 106.6 grams. 894.8 grams. 

The proportion of the proteid to fats is very suggestive, and confirms Prof. Atwater's 
views that far more fat is eaten in America than Germany. This is well shown by a com- 
parison of these figures with those given on the diagram for the same ages. Americans 
seem to eat far more fat and sugar, and consequently less starch, than the average Ger- 
man. How far this is due to climate and to habit, or to the fact that it is not necessary in 
this country to live so largely on bread, remains to be studied. It should however, be 
considered in providing for American students. * 

The experiment has continued now for three years on the same lines, and may be con- 
sidered to prove that a limited variety of uniformly well-prepared food will be taken even 
by that capricious animal, a young student. 

In connection with the marked increase of the sugar and fat there arises another vital 
question in physiological chemistry. The old adage, '* After breakfast walk a mile, after 
dinner sleep awhile," was founded on experience in the time when starch in the form of 
more or less heavy bread, and of potatoes and fat in the form of pork, was the chief 
source of the carbohydrates and fat taken. Does the same hold true at this date, when 
the more readily assimilated butter replaces pork, and when the already partly-digested 
sugar replaces a part of the starch, and when the light, fine wheat-bread taxes much less 
the power of digestion ? In other words, how far is it physiologically correct to encour- 
age brain workers to omit the after-dinner rest by furnishing them, with a noon meal 
which will not so tax all their bodily powers as to leave nothing available for mental 
work? For my own part, I believe that whatever may be the case for the morning and 
evening meal, the character of the food taken during the working hours of students 
should be such as to sustain the supply of force-producing material in the blood, without 
requiring a large per cent of the force already at hand to convert the food eaten into new 
force-producing material. 

Herein lies a new problem in the conservation of energy, and of that most productive 
of all forms of energy, that of human thought 

Until this law is apprehended and applied, we do not know of how much the American 
student may be capable. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



161 



? ? f F I 1 ^ f ? 



iA/U- 




-8 



i § 



% • I I t I • 

S I f s S ( s 



This diagram is only an approximate statement of observed facts. The value of such 
generalizations lies in the number of observations upon which they are based, and in this 
case they are too few for a final decision. Further, the facts are from Greiman sources al- 



162 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

most exclusively, because no others gave the whole series ; and it seemed better to adhere 
to a uniform standard of calculation in view of the great gaps in our knowledge. It is 
given in this imperfect state in order to induce a fuller study of the question. 

From what we do know of the American standards, it seems probable that the curve 
of carbohydrates would be less marked, and that the curve of fats would be nearfy coinci- 
dent with that of the proteids except in that part showing the amount from the tenth to 
the twentieth year if drawn to represent American practice. 

The steepness of the curve of carbohydrates shows the need of a full supply of the 
material which serves as the source of power for the very great activity of youth. The 
child naturally runs all day long ; the activity, the amount of work done, is enormously 
in excess of that done in after life, aimless though it may seem. It is none the less work 
because it is work of heart and lungs, and muscular exercise in play. It is useful work, 
in that it builds up a structure for the grown man to use ; it is the building time, and the 
building cannot be well made, strongly put together, without it. This intense activity is 
required for the metabolism of the tissue, which is also rapid, as will be seen by the curve 
of proteid. If the weight of the individual at different ages were taken into account, this 
would be even more marked. 



THE RUMFORD KITCHEN LEAFLETS. 

No. 14. 



PROPHYLACTIC AND THERAPEUTIC VALUE OF FOOD. 

Bead at the meeting of the American Pnblle Health Assoeiation, Ghieago. 

Oct. 19, 1893,by£i«LEKU.RiCHABl>8. 

The views now held concemiDg the causation and prevention of disease lead us to 
hope that a new era is dawning for the study of food in its relation to health and sickness. 

Mrs. Abel has chosen for the motto of the series of Rumford Kitchen Leaflets the 
following saying of Donders, which was first quoted by Voit : *^ He who works with all 
his strength on the development of our knowledge of food and nutrition, and who also 
persistently strives to apply the results of investigation, is working on a broad basis for 
the development of mankind." 

No body of men can be more interested in the application of scientific knowledge to 
daily life than the members of the Public Health Association, or more keenly alive to the 
liability to mistake on the part of enthusiasts, and certainly no body of men can so 
warmly sympathize with those who are striving to bring well known facts into general cir- 
culation in the face of difficulty and discouragement As Count Rumford so well stated 
it : '^ The slowness with which improvements of all kinds make their way into common 
use, and especially such improvements as are the most calculated to be of general utility, 
is very remarkable, and forms a striking contrast to the extreme avidity with which those 
unmeaning changes are adopted, which folly and caprice are continually bringing forth 
and sending into the world under the auspices of fashion." 

But Count Rumford worked almost alone and far in advance of his time, while we 
can count on the sympathy and support of scores of able men, and it is for that reason 
that we appeal to you for codperation, suggestion, and criticism. The world at present 
needs most of all what I have elsewhere called a standard of health, a normal ^' well* 
being." 

Given a well-built, smoothly-working bodily machine placed under good conditions in 
a wholesome environment, and it is chiefly a question of good food as to how nearly the 
standard can be kept up. 

Gopyright, 18d3, by Ellkn H. Richabds. 



164 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

As a good workman can do better work with a poor tool than a poor workman can 
do with a good tool, so a man with skill derived from knowledge can often make better 
use of a body crippled by accident or inheritance than his neighbor can of a perfect equip- 
ment. Many a structure is strengthened by a brace here and a bolt there mi til it long 
outlasts a better-built one : so the right kind and quantity of food, with rigid abstinence 
from irritating or clogging substances, may so strengthen a weak heart or a feeble consti- 
tution that the natural term of life may be reached in comparative comfort On the 
other hand, the delicately adjusted machine may be thrown into disorder by a very slight 
indiscretion which may not matter for once, but which, repeated, wears a groove which 
deepens more and more until it is in danger of stopping the machinery. 

A great need of the present time is a better standard of health, a test measure of the 
duty (used in the engineeriug sense) of the human body. The engineer knows how much 
his engine is intended to do, and he chooses that fuel and that lubricant which will enable 
the task to be accomplished. Each human machine has a certain capacity of work, a cer- 
tain load under which it works best ; each individual can, generally speaking, if he will, 
control this load or strain so as to get the full duty of the machine. Here also it is fuel 
and lubricant, that is, food and enjoyment of work. 

To be well means to have good spirits, good temper, and a certain elasticity or capac- 
ity to do more than the normal without passing the limit of recovery. In this " well-be- 
ing," this " feeling like a fighting cock," in homely phrase, lies, in the main, as we believe, 
the secret of resistance to disease. Therefore to keep the body in good working condi- 
tion seems to be also to render it most resistant to the inroads of disease. The power 
of accommodation is such in this delicate machine that the most diverse substances can 
be utilized, and the range of substances found useful for human nutrition is very wide, so 
wide that man has jumped to the conclusion that it made no difference what he ate ; and 
while to a certain extent this may be true in a state of robust health and active exercise, 
it is far from it when once the balance has been disturbed and the machinery is working 
badly, so that in the case of inherited weakness or of accidental disability food becomes of . 
more importance, and the cause of public health would gain much and public temper still 
more if this fact could be generally recognized. 

It is the day of "small things" — quantities formerly considered insignificant are 
now held responsible for great disorders. 

An excess of food over the supply of chemical agents in the alimentary canal causes 
imperfect decomposition, and leads to irritability, if it does not leave poisonous products 
to be more or less absorbed into the blood ; a danger the greater because often quite un- 
suspected. 

This intimate connection of good food and good temper might be emphasized to 
advantage both in school and in society. 



THE SCIENCE OB' NUTKITION. 165 

The prophyktctic value of food is then to keep the human body in a high condition of 
health. For this there seems to be no general rule, since individual idiosyncrasies and 
mental conditions exercise a marked influence on capacity for utilization of nourishment. 
The main object to be gained is to establish a higher standard of health in the community, 
to make as widely known as possible the fact that much of the ill-health now prevalent is 
needless, that a little self-denial, a little more attention to the rules of hygiene, a little 
more living in the open air, would cause a large part of the disturbances of health now 
60 common to disappear. 

Self-indulgence and a deep-seated superstition that medicine can take away all evil 
consequences lead men to swallow the pill and throw away the sound advice which usu- 
ally accompanies it. 

A man will attribute a headache in the morning to anything rather than to the dinner 
of the night before. 

Drugs, however useful in emergencies, can never take the place of the daily food ; 
if that is clean, wholesome, and right in kind and quantity, there is little chance for 
disease to find a foothold ; but once let the normal life be disturbed, and the importance of 
tlie food taken rises rapidly. 

The therapeutic value of food it is hardly possible to estimate. It is often the one 
determining factor in the question of recovery — more often than one likes to think in 
view of the ionaorauce and carelessness so often seen in feedincr the sick. 

Still more in sickness than in health food should be such that it furnishes sufRcient- 
nourishment, but not more than can be assimilated by a system weakened by disease. 

A knowledge of the right proportions of the essential food substances, and of the 
absolute quantity or food value of the food given to the very sick, is necessary to the phy- 
sician, if not to the nurse. How many a life has been lost because of a lack of this 
knowledge the world will never know. 

Therefore, we believe that when medical schools teach so thoroughly the principles 
of physiological chemistry, and of the science of nutrition, already well known, that the 
physician becomes perfectly conversant with the food values of the different articles of 
food which he prescribes, and with the appearance they present when they are properly 
prepared, then the percentage of recovery will be largely increased. 

At present there are comparatively few persons who are called upon to feed the sick 
to whom a glass of milk or a pound of beef represent any definite amount of food mate- 
rials. Still fewer who can tell how much food-value a glass of lemon jelly or wine whey 
represents, and yet the adult patient is dependent upon the attendant even more than the 
week-old infant for the requisite nutrition. 

The time is surely ripe for some definite experiments in this line, and as it is so often 
the first step that costs, the first plunge that gives the cold chill of disenchantment or dis- 



166 THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITIOM. 

appointment, I venture to make the next step, that of criticism, easier, and have given in 
the following tables some suggestive combinations, in the hope that some one favorably 
situated and philosophically inclined may* carry on the investigation. 

From the experiments made by the best* investigators, it seems probable that only 
about one-ihird of the daily ration is available for kinetic force ; that ^, that only about 
one-third of the total energy contained in the daily food can be utilized in digging trenches, 
carrying bricks, climbing mountains, designing bridges, or writing poems and essays. 

The other two-thirds is used up in the internal work of the body, the action of the 
heart, lungs, and the production of the large amount of heat necessary to life. 

If this is the case, then we may make out a life ration, or that amount of food which 
is necessary in order to keep the human machine in existence without any sj^cial accom- 
plishment of either body or mind, and a work ration which includes the amount of food 
required by the human machine in order to produce results either physical or mental. 

For this climate, and for the habits of our people, I have estimated this life ration as 
approximately : 

ProtelcL Fat. Carbohydrate. Calories. 

75 grams. 40 grams. 825 grams. 2,000 

And the maximum and minimum work ration as : 

Proteid. Fat. Carbohydrate. Calories. 

125 grams. 125 grams. 450 grams. 8,500 

110 « 90 «» 420 " 8,000 

An examination of the actual dietaries of some of the very poor who eat just 
enough to live, without doing any work, shows that in twelve cases the average was : 

Protetd. Fat. Carbohydrate. Calories. 

81 grams. 88 grams. 272 grams. 2,257 

The forty-eight grams of fat would thus seem .to be the chief source of the little 
energy these people showed. However far out we may be in this calculation, it will serve 
its purpose as a working hypothesis to enable us to determine the true standard. Taking 
this as a basis, I have made out the following tables of some dietaries for the sick, that is, 
for the generality of cases where no very wide departure from normal diet is required, 
only where a lessened quantity and a liquid form is indicated. 

These tables show how difficult it is to secure sufficient food in a liquid form, and 
how important it is to turn some of our scientific study in this direction. 

The full allowance of three quarts in twenty-four hours must be taken of nearly any 
sort of liquid food, and no one kind is sufficient in itself, so that a variety is required. 

For instance, three quarts of milk would give 

Proteid. Fat. Carbohydrate. Calories. 

102 grams. 108 grams. 182 grams. 1,958 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. l67 

which is about the right amount of calories, but far too much fat and too little carbohy- 
drate according to most authorities. 

It would be necessary to use skimmed milk, and the danger of partial decomposition 
or deterioration of the milk while waiting for the cream to rise is a serious objection to 
general use unless milk from the centrifugal separator can be had. On the other hand, if 
three quarts of beef broth or consomme were given, the patient would have only — 

Proteld. Fat. Carbohydrate. Calories. 

123 grams. 8 grams. ... 532 

This would furnish too little fat and no carbohydrates, and only about one-fourth of 
the total amount of heat necessary. The soup as made at the Munich Hospital is much 
better, as it contains — 

Proteid. Fat. Carbohydrate. Calories. 

21. G grams. 21.6 grams. 108 grams. 730 

One pound of lean steak and three-quarters of a pound of rice (weighed uncooked) 
yield the full life ration. 

To illustrate how little these points are appreciated we have only to turn to one of 
the best of invalid cookery books just published, and find that the rations which are given 
as guides to nurses, when the physician has left the food to their judgment, prove far too 
low. For instance : 



Proteid. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrate. 


Calories. 


24.5 grams. 


28. 5 <*ram8. 


03.6 grams. 


631 


CC.5 " 


23.5 " 


83.5 " 


831 



These are only one-half, or even one-third enough, according to theory, and the 
amount of liquid is also below the standard. 

I was pleased to find in an article by Dr. W. Prausnitz, on the food of German hos- 
pitals, calculations giving results not very different from those arrived at by myself.* He 
gives as the standard : 

Proteid. Fat. Cnrbohydrate. Calories. 

For a man, 110 grams. 50 grams. SoO to 400 grams. 2,350 

For a woman, 100 ** 50 " 300 to 350 " 2,100 

The following tables will serve as a summary of the points which I have attempted 
to illustrate. It is to be remarked that food prepared for the very sick should be nearly 
all digestible, while that for the well person contains at least 10 per cent, and more fre- 
quently 15 per cent, of indigestible material. 



1 U«fher(IieKastin Krankeiiliiinserit iiiit btfsonderer DMrUckaii-htiisunK der Miinchener VerliaituiMe. Von 
Dr. W. Pratt«niiz, iieutsohe VierielJaUrsclinli fur dffeuUiche U«»uiidiieitepllege, 189J. Baud 25. SeiM 063. 



168 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 



ESTIMATED LIFE RATION. 





Proteid, 
grams. 


Fat, 
grams. 


• 

Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Calories. 


For one day 


76 


40 


826 


2,000 



ESTIMATED WORK RATION, MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM. 



For one day 




A COMMON INVALID RATION, TOO LOW IN CARBOHYDRATES. 



1 pint beef juice, containing 7 per cent 

1 nint whole milk 


31.6 

17 

18.2 


18 
18.2 


22 

38 


129.0 
326.5 


1 quart flour gruel made with whole milk 


397.9 


2 quarts of liquid. Total, 


66.7 


36i2 


60 


862.4 



A COMMON INVALID RATION, TOO LOW IN PROTEID. 



1 nint beef broth or consomm^ 


20.5 
6.8 


0.6 

21.5 
0.4 


60 
79 
64 


88.7 


1 pint dried fruit soup 

1 pint lemon whey 

1 pint Imperial Granum, containing 3 ounces .... 


206.0 
621.7 
294.0 


2 quarts of liquid. Total, 


27.3 


22.4 


193 


1,109.4 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



169 



AN IDEAL RATION WITH SOLID FOOD. 



Material. 



Amount. 


Protbid. 


Fat. 


Carbohy- 
drates. 


• 

B 


• 
CO 

8 


• 
CO 

B 


 
«D 

o 


• 
OD 


 

0) 

o 


• 

B 


 
00 


u 




§ 







c 

o 


g 


§ 


O 


o 


O 


O 


o 


O 


O 


o 



OB 
0) 

Ii 

o 

o 



Bread .... 
Meat .... 
Oysters. . . . 
Breakfast Cocoa 

Milk 

Broth .... 
Sugar . . . . 
Butter . . . . 

Total . . . 



463.6 

226.8 

226.8 

28.3 

113.4 

463.6 

28.3 

14.17 



16 


31.75 


1.12 


2.26 


0.08 


267.28 


9.04 


8 


34.02 


1.20 


11.34 


0.40 




— 


8 


12.52 


0.44 


2.04 


0.07 




— . 


1 


6.60 


0.23 


7.50 


0.26 


9.60 


0.34 


4 


3.63 


0.13 


4.42 


0.16 


4.88 


0.17 


16 


18.14 


0.64 


18.14 


0.64 


90.72 


3.20 


1 


-» 


_- 


— 


>-.- 


27.36 


0.96 


}i 


0.14 


-^ 


12.27 


— 




— 



1,206.82 
243.72 

70.01 
135.42 

76.66 
613.21 
112.17 
118.62 



106.80 



67.97 



389.84 



2,676.62 



AN IDEAL RATION OF LIQUID FOOD. 



Material. 



Beef broth or consomm^ 

To which has been added one large egg, minu8 

shell 

Dried fruit soup 

Lemon jelly 

Whole milk 

Rice or arrowroot 

Grape sugar, or some one. of the prepared foods 

(dS^) 



Total 



Amount. 



1 pint 



2 oz. 
1 quart 
H pint 
1 quart 

3 oz. (dry) 

4 oz. (dry) 



Proteid, 
grams. 


Fat, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


20.06 

7.1 

6.6 

34.0 

6.3 

2.6 


0.6 
6.8 

36.0 
0.3 


100. 
12.6 
44.0 
67.2 

100.0 


76.9 


43.6 


823.7 



Calories. 



88.70 

91.67 
410.00 

77.90 
651.00 
304.11 

420.25 



2,043.63 



2.6 quarts 

to 
3.0 quarts, according to how the rice is given. 



170 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



A RATION RICH IN PROTEID — AFTER ACUTE DISEASE. 



Matebial 



Bread 

Meat 

Milk without cream 

Coffee or tea >vith cream . 

Butter 

Sugar 

Less 10 per cent, for indigestibility . . . 
Total 



Am't 
grams. 


Am't 
ounces. 


Proteid, 
grams. 


Fat, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


45.3.0 
45:10 
45:].0 
453.0 
14.17 
50.7 


10 
10 
10 
10 

2^ 


31.75 

04.04 

29.02 

4.00 

0.14 


2.20 
22.08 
18.00 

3.25 
12.27 


257.28 

39.00 
1.14 

64.72 


— 


— 


129.55 
12.95 


58 40 
5.84 


352.14 
35.21 


— 


1 


110.00 


62 02 


310.93 



Calories. 



1,205.81 
487.02 
444.48 
5:'i.43 
118.02 
224.36 



2,534.31 
253.43 



2,280.88 



A WORK RATION FOR A PROFESSIONAL OR LITERARY MAN. 



Material. 


Ounces. 


Proteid, 
grams. 


Fat, 
grams. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
grams. 


Calories. 


Bread 


10 


32. 


3. 


258. 


1,210.0 


Moat 








10 


50. 


30. 


~— 


4810 


Butter .... 






•  • •  




1 


— 


25. 


— 


2:i0.0 


Su^ar 








» • •  • 1 




4 


^— 


^— 


110. 


451.0 


Milk . 












8 


18. 


18. 


22. 


320.0 


Oysters 








• • - • • 




4 


7 


1. 


— 


37 8 


Soup 








1 • • • •  




4 


4. 


3. 




44 


Potatoes 








• > •   







3. 


~- 


38. 


l(i8.1 


Eggs . 












3 


10. 


9. 


^^ 


12:^8 


Oatmeal 








•  * 




2 


1. 


0.5 


4. 


25.1 


Cream . 








* •  




1 


1.5 


0.5 


1. 


70.1 


Fruit . 






* • • . * • 




8 


0.5 




50. 


2071 


Additional 


liquid, tea, cofifec or water 




30 










Total 




— 


127.0 


90.0 


483. 


3,384.2 





DIETARIES FOR THIRTY DAYS. 



Ml • 11 



In order that the greatest economy which is consistent with sufficient nutrition may 
he secured without spending more time in saving a few cents a day than the money is 
worth, the following tables have been prepared on the basis of the retail prices of food 
purchased in the Boston market, in small quantities, in the spring of 1891. In conse- 
quence of the very short crop of domestic potatoes and the heavy duty or tax imposed 
upon Canadian potatoes, the price of that most important vegetable was excessive at the 
date of that compilation. The retail prices of the tougher portions of meat and the best 
kinds of grain and vegetables in Boston in the spring of 1891 will be found on the next 
page. Vegetables then rated at a higher price than usual, on account of the great scarcity 
of potatoes. 

The following table gives the prices of small quantities of food in fifteen varieties at 
the present time, May, 1895, in the Boston market. This table has not been made in any 
due proportion, but is consistent with about the right proportions of grain, meat and vege- 
table food. If this quantity were cooked at one time, there would ^e not less than fifteen 
pounds of water added in the process of cooking. That would make one hundred pounds 
of cooked food ready for consumption. If we take the average of adult men or women, it 
is not probable that any average number would consume more than three pounds a day each 
from this dietary. That would give a cost of nine cents per day, to which might be added 
butter, if desired, tea, coffee and fruit. Any one may substitute the better cuts of meat 
for the cheap cuts listed in this dietary, and on that compute daily rations at a higher cost 

1. € pounds Beef, shin, at 3 cents per pound ..*.... 18 cents. 

2. 4 *< Mutton, flank, at 4 cents per pound 16 " 

8. 2 ** Salt Pork, at 8 cents per pound 16 *< 

4. 2 <* Suet, at 4 cents per pound 8 *< 

5. 2 " Oleo., at 15 cents per pound . 80 ** 

6. 6 *< Fish, at 5 cents per pound 30 " 

7. 3 <* Skim-Milk, at 2 cents per pound 6 '< 

8. 10 ^ Potatoes, at 1 1 cents per pound . . . 13 «* 

9. 10 " Vegetables, at 2^ cents per pound 25 " 

10. 2 *< Cheese, at 14 cents per pound 28 " 

11. 24 " Flour 55 " 

12. 3 ** Oatmeal, at 4 cents per pound 12 " 

13. 3 *' Cornmeal, at 2} cents per pound 8 *' 

14. 6 ^ Hominy, at 4 cents per pound •. . . . 24 ** 

15. 2 " Sugar, at 5 cents per pound > 10 *• 

85 pounds (-{- 15 of water used in cooking = 100) .... S2.99 



172 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 





Per lb. 








Per lb. 


Beef — average of neck. 




Halibut Nape, 


• 




5 cents. 


shin, flank, and some 




Whole milk, . 


• • 




8 




of the better portionsy 




Skimmed milk, 


• • 




4 




omitting expensive 




A good quality of cheese. 




16 




cuts, .... 


6 cents. 


A fair quality of butter, 


28 to 82 




Beef suet, selected, 


6 to 6 ** 


Corn meal, 


• • 


2Kto 


8 




Beef, corned. 


6 *' 


Oatmeal, 


• • 


4to 


5 




Beef liver, 


6 ** 


Cracked wheat. 


 • 




5 




The cheaper parts of 




Split pease and 


dried 








mntton, 


6 " 


whole pease. 


• « 


7 to 


9 




Oomed pork, 


8 " 


White beans, . 


• 


7 to 


8 




Salt pork, varying in 




Rice, 


• • 


6 to 10 




different years, now, . 


8 ** 


Hominy, 


  




4 




Smoked ham, 


12 " 


Potatoes, very scarce, . 




2^ 




Bacon, .... 


12 ** 


Turnips, 






8^ 




Sausage of good quality, 


16 «* 


Onions, scarce. 






5 




Veal, the cheaper parts. 


8 " 


Dceis, 






6 




The cheaper l^inda of 




Carrots, . 




2j< toS 




fresh fish, 


6 to 8 " 


Squash, . 






3 




Salt cod. 


8 " 


Cabbage, 






2^ 





What can be bought in Brookline^ Mass., at retail prices for half a dollar iit 
July, 1891. 

1 pound of flour, 2^ cents. 

1 pound shin of beef or mutton flank, 5 ji *' 

X pound suet, l^i *• 

yi pound salt codfish, 4 " 

yi pound oatmeal, ' . . . • 2 ^' 

}i pound hominy, 2 ** 

yi pound corn meal, 1^ *' 

1 pound potatoes, 2yi '* 

% pound onions, l>i ** 

yi pound beets, 2yi " 

yi pound carrots, 2 ** 

yi pound split pease, .4 ^* 

yi pouDd butter (fair,) 14 *' 

yi pound dried currants, • . . 4>i *' 

8 pounds, 50 ^ 



THE 8CIBNCE OF NUTRITION. 



173 



What can be bought for 


a quarter of a 


dollar 


12 oz. flour, i( 


lb. 


2 c. 


per lb., 


t • 




12 '' neck beef, ^ 




5 


i( 






2 *' beefsnet, H 




6 


it 






8 *< saltocd, ^ 




8 


n 






8 *' oatmeal, yi 




4 


(i 






8 •• hominy, )i 




4 


It 







10 '* potatoes,! ^ 




2J< 


(i 






2 •' onions, 




5 


it 


. 


4 " sugar, X 




6 


i( 




• i 


2 *' butter, j4 




82 


(t 




• 1 


1 pint milk, 1 




8 c. 


quart, 




• 



1^ cents. 
H 

2 
2 
2 



It 

n 



5 ** 
Tea or coffee 2 cups, or one cup each, 

Enough for two women at moderate work. 



4 

4 

28 
2 

25 



4t 

it 

i( 
i« 
(I 

t( 

(C 

t« 



In making up the subsequent tables^ Flour Grain^ Boots and other vegetables, 
sugar and a moderate quantity of butter or suet are considered Constants in each 
table. It is assumed that these will inyariably be purchased of sound and good 
quality. 

A sufficient quantity of these constants is assigned to each dietary, containing 
the right proportions of protein, starch and fat, and a sufficient number of Calories 
to sustain the life of an adult without the addition of the Variables which yield 
working power. 

The term *' Constants " is used in a two-fold significance. This part of the dietary 
may be constant in the relative quantity of each.element named, but these elements 
will also be substantially constant in price in any given year, varying a little in 
one year as compared to another mainly in ratio to the abundance or scarcity of 
wheat or potatoes in each respective year. 

On this basis of a sufficient quantity of cereals, fat and vegetable food to 
sustain the life of an adult is dealt with, to which meat, fish, eggs, other vegetables 
and flavorings may be added to the end that working power may be developed in 
proportion to the effort which is required in each pursuit. These elements may be 
added in variable quantities and prices according to their kind. 

The following dietaries have been made up to meet the requirements of persons 
who are occupied in work requiring a moderate amount of physical exertion or of 
persons who are engaged in sedentary pursuits who take moderate exercise. 

Each dietary consists of the two divisions named Gonstants and Variables. 



174 



THB SCIENCE OP NUTBITIOK. 



In No. 1, Meat only is added to the Constants. 

No. 2, Meat and substitutes, eggs^ beans, pease and milk. 

No. 3, Fish and cheese. 

No. 4, More grain is added, giving an excess of starch at a lower cost, but 
higher in Calories, because grains are loss digestible. 

Nos. 5, 6 and 7 are a little richer and more yaried. 

No. 8 gives a purely vegetarian diet, higher in Calories because less digestible; 
and higher in cost because animal food is cheaper in cost than vegetables when 
consumed at a given standard of nutrition. 

Nos. 9, 10 and 11 are rich and varied, but are so assorted that they may be 
adopted by any family at a very moderate cost. 



-•••- 



DIETARIES. 

Table showing the computation of the elements of Dietary No. 1. The same 
method has been applied to all. 

Constants whioh enter into the Subsequent Dietaries, Nos. 1 to 12 inclusive. 



COST AT BOBTOlf 



ARTIOT.E. POUNDS. 


PROTEID. 


FAT. 


OARBOHTDRATE. 


CALORIES. 


PRICES, 1 


Flour, 


22 


2.64 


.44 


15.18 


86,620 


$0.55 


Grain, 


12 


1.68 


.84 


7.60 


19,800 


.48 


Butter, 


2 


.02 


1.78 




7,280 


.56 


Suet, 


2 




1.78 




7,200 


.12 


Sugar, 


2 






1.98 


8,600 


.10 


Potatoes, 


10 


.20 




2.10 


4,800 


.25 


Beets, 














Carrots, 














Onions, 














r 

Squash, 


• 7 


.IS 


.08 


.60 


1,180 


.25 


Cabbage, 














Parsnips, 


57 


4.67 


4.82 


27.81 






For 80 days, 


79,770 


12.81 


For 1 day, 


1.90 


.165 


.160 


.910 


2,659 


.077 



THB SGIE'KOB OF ISITTBITIOK. 



175 



▼ARIABLBS IN TABLE NO. 1. SHOWING METHOD OF ANALTBIB AFFUXD TO BAOH TABIA 



Beef, neck 
















or shin, 


12 


riacladli4f\ 


2.00 


.40 




5,200 


.72 


Mutton, neck, 5 




.62 


.84 




2,476 


.80 


Bacon, 


4 




.40 


2.80 




11,840 


.48 


Beef liver, 


2 




.40 


.10 




1,120 


.12 


Veal, 


1 




.10 


.08 




460 


.08 


Salt Pork, 


1 

25 

'82 




.08 
8.64 
8.81 


.78 
4.4S 
0.27 


27.81 


8,160 


.08 


For 80 days, 


24,256 


1.78 


Total, 


104,026 


•4.00 


For 1 day. 


2.78 




.277 


.800 


.010 


8,467.5 


.186 



The food material contained in the following table of Constants would suffice 
to sustain the life of an adult without the addition of the Variables which are given 
in this and in each subsequent dietary. The Constants may be named The Life 
Ration. The Variables added may be named The Work Ration. The price of 
flour is given at what it would have cost by the sack or barrel in the spring of 
1891. All other prices are for small quantities bought at retail. At the time 
of correcting proofs (September)^ the price of flour is somewhat higher, and of 
potatoes considerably lower — ^the average of all the elements of the dietary about 
the same. 







DiBTABT, NC 


L 1. 






CONSTANTS. 








22 pounds Flour, 


at 


$0.02^ 


$0.66 


8 * 


* Oatmeal, 


at 


.04 


.12 


8 • 


' Oornmeal, 


At 


.08 


.00 


6 • 


* Hominy, 


at 


.04^ 


.27 


2 * 


' Batter, 


at 


.28 


.56 


2 ' 


' Snet, 


at 


.06 


.12 


10 * 


* Potatoes, 


at 


.02^ 


.25 


Jl • 


* Cabbages, 


at 


.08 


.00 


2 ' 


* Carrots, 


at 


.02)6 


.05 


2 * 


* Onions, 


at 


.05>i 


.11 


2 * 


* Sugar, 


at 


.06 


.10 



n^jraamsk 



$2.81 70,770 



1 



176 



IHB 8CIBNCB OF ITUTBmOK. 



▼ABIABLn. 

12 ponnds Beef, neck or shin, 



6 




Neck of Mattoiiy 


4 




Bacon, 


8 




Beef liver, 


1 




Veal, 


1 




Pork, 



85 



82 pounds, for 80 days, 
2.78 pounds for 1 day, 

Oo3t per week, 95^ oents. 



at 


.06 


.72 




at 


.06 


.80 




at 


.12 


.48 




at 


.06 


.12 




at 


.08 


.08 




at 


.08 


.08 








fl.78 

$4.09 


24,856 




104,026 






.186 


8,467.5 



Ddbtaby, No. 2. 



00N8TANTB. 

22 pounds Flour, 



8 
8 
6 
2 
2 

10 
8 
2 
2 
2 



(I 

4( 
14 

ti 
it 
il 
it 
ii 

ti 
tl 



Oatmeal, 

Gommeal, 

Hominy, 

Butter, 

Suet, 

Potatoes, 

Cabbages, 

Carrots, 

Onions, 

Sugar, 



57 



VARIABLES. 

10 pounds Beef or Mutton, 



2 

8 

15 

2 



it 



IC 



it 



tt 



87 



l}i doz. E;gg8, 
Beans and Pease, 
Skimmed lOlked, 
Suet, 



at 
at 
at 
at 
at 
at 
at 
at 
at 
at 
at 



90.02^ 
.04 
.08 
M}i 
.28 
.06 
.02^ 
.08 
.02^ 
.05>i 
.05 



$0.55 
.13 
.09 
.27 
.56 
.12 
.25 
.09 
.05 
.11 
.10 



OALOBOES. 



nM 



at 60.06 60.60 

at .18 per doz. .27 

at .07 .66 

at .02 .80 

at .06 .12 



7»,770 



$1.86 29,925 



94 pounds, total for 80 days, 
8.1 " " '' Iday, 

Cost per week, 97^ oenta. 



$4.16 109,695 
.139 8,656.5 



THl SOISKOB OF KUTSITIOK. 



1/ 4 







DUTABT, No. 8. 




00NBTAMT8. 








Cttaosna 


22 ponnds Floar, 




at 


•0.02^ 


to. 55 


8 •• 


Oatmeal, 




at 


.04 


.12 


8 " 


Oornmeal, 




at 


.08 


.00 


6 " 


Hominy, 




at 


.04>i 


.27 


2 " 


Batter, 




at 


.28 


.56 


2 " 


Snet, 




as 


.06 


.12 


10 « 


Potatoes, 




at 


.02>i 


.25 


3 " 


Cabbages, 




at 


.08 


.09 


2 " 


Carrots, 




at 


.02>i 


.05 


2 " 


Onions, 




at 


.05X 


.11 


2 " 


Sugar, 




at 


.05 


.10 


57 










$2.81 79,770 


TA&IARI.1C8. 










10 poQudfl Beef or Mutton^ 




at 


90.06 


$0.60 


2 " 


Salt Codfish, 




at 


.08 


.16 


e " 


Fresh Fish, 


1 


at 


.05 


.80 


2 " 


Cheese, 




at 


.16 


.82 


2 «« 


SaltPoric, 




at 


.08 


.16 


2 *• 


Bnet, 




at 


.Ob 


.12 


24 










11.66 27,448 


81 


pounds, total for 80 days. 






$3.97 107,218 


2.7 " ** '* 


Iday, 






.182 8,574.0 



Cost per week, 98^ cents. 







DlKTABT, No. 4. 




OONBTANTS. 








22 pounds Flour, 


at 


$0 02>^ 


$0.55 


8 *« 


Oatmeal, 


at 


.04 


.12 


8 ** 


Commeal, 


at 


.08 


.09 


6 «* 


Hominy, 


at 


M)i 


.27 


2 " 


Butter, 


at 


.28 


.56 


2 " 


Suet, 


at 


.06 


.12 


10 " 


Potatoes, 


at 


.02^ 


.25 


8 ** 


Cabbages, 


at 


.08 


.09 


2 " 


Carrots, 


at 


.02}i 


.05 


2 " 


Onions, 


at 


.05>i 


.11 


2 ** 


Sugar, 


at 


.05 


.10 



f^A f<»^Tieft. 



67 



$2.81 79,770 



178 



XHB 8GIBNGB OF NUTBITIOK. 



YARIABLE8. 


pooncU Lenn Beef, 


8 " 


Bacon, 


1 " 


Salt Pork, 


6 " 


Flour, 


2 " 


Bioe, 


1 " 


Barley, 


% •♦ 


Rye, 


1 " 


Lentils, 


8 •« 


Whole Wheat, 


1 •• 


Batter, 



80 ponnds, total for 80 days, 
2.7 " •' " Iday, 

Oo0t per week, 88 cents. 



at 


10.06 


60.80 




at 


.12 


.24 




at 


.08 


.08 




at 


.02^ 


.18 




at 


.06 


.12 




at 


.06 


.06 




at 


.08 


.06 




at 


.10 


.10 




at. 


(U 


.12 




at 


18 


.28 








61.48 


88,886 






68.79 


118,666 






.186 


8,066 







DOBTABY, No. 6. 




i 


DONSTAMTB. 








22 pounds Flour, 


at 


60.02>i 


90.66 


8 *• 


Oatmeal, 


at 


.04 


.12 


8 •* 


Oommeal, 


at 


.08 


.09 


6 «* 


Hominy, 


at 


M^ 


.27 


2 '• 


Batter, 


at 


.28 


.66 


2 •* 


Suet, 


at 


.06 


.12 


10 " 


Potatoes, 


at 


.02>< 


.26 


3 ** 


Cabbages, 


at 


.08 


.09 


2 " 


Carrots, 


at 


.02}i 


.06 


2 •* 


Onions, 


at 


.06^ 


.11 


2 " 


Sa^ar, 


at 


.06 


.10 


67 

1 


V^ABIABLEB. 


* 






6 pounds shin of Beef, 


at 


60.06 


tO.86 


2 ** 


round of Beef, 


at 


.18 


.86 


6 *» 


neck of Mutton, 


at 


.06 


.86 


2 " 


Eggc», 


at 


. 18 doz. 


.27 


1 *• 




at 


.16 


.16 


80 •• 


Skimmed Milk, 


at 


.02 


.60 


1 •* 


White Beans, 


at 


.07 


.07 


1 " 


Pease, 


at 


.07 


.07 


4 •• 


Halibut, nape, 


at 


.06 


.20 


2 " 


Haddock, 


at 


.08 


.16 



•4L0RI1S. 



62.81 79,770 



THE SOIB^CB OP NUTBITIOlf. 



179 



8 ponnds Salt Cod, 



1 • 


' Oleomargarinei 


2 * 


' Macaroni, 


1 * 


' Oatmeal, 


2 • 


' Cornmeal, 


1 ' 


• Rice, 


1 • 


' Hominy, 



66 



123 pounds, total for 30 days, 
4.1 •* '* " Iday, 

Oost per week, $1.85. 



at 


.08 


.24 




at 


.16 


.16 




at 


.16 


.80 




at' 


.04 


.04 




at 


.08 


.06 




at 


.06 


.06 




at 


.04 


.04 








$3.51 

$5.82 


41,051 




120,821 






.104 


4,027. 







DnSTABT, No. 6. 






CONSTANTS. 








22 pounds Flour, 


at 


$0.02>i 


$0.55 


8 * 


' Oaimeal, 


at 


.04 


.12 


8 ' 


' Oornmeal, 


at 


.08 


.00 


6 « 


* Hominy, 


at 


M}i 


.27 

• 


2 « 


' Butter, 


at 


.28 


.56 


2 ' 


* Saet, 


at 


.06 


.12 


10 • 


* Potatoes, 


at 


.02^ 


.25 


8 * 


' Cabbages, 


at 


.08 


.00 


2 * 


* Carrots, 


at 


.02>i 


.05 


2 * 


' Onions, 


at 


.05>i 


.11 


2 « 


* Sugar, 


at 


.05 


.10 


6' 


r 

VARIABLES. 








2poii 


inds Beef, shin, 


at 


$0.06 


$0.12 


8 • 


* Beef, round, 


at 


.18 


.54 


1 • 


* Beef/ tripe, 


at 


.10 


.10 


8 * 


' Calves' hearts, 


at 


.06 


.18 


2 * 


* Pigs' feet. 


at 


.05 


.10 


2 * 


* Ej5g8, 


at 


.18 doz. 


.27 


1 * 


* Cheese, 


at 


.16 


.16 


15 * 


' Skimmed Milk, 


at 


.02 


.30 


IH ' 


' Beans, 


at 


.07 


.11 


tyi ' 


* Pease, 


at 


.07 


.11 


4 ' 


* Fresh Fish, 


at 


.08 


.82 


2 * 


• Salt Cod, 


at 


.08 


.16 


2 * 


* Bacon, 


at 


.12 


.24 


1 • 


Butter, 


at 


.28 


.28 



nAjraaw^ 



$2.81 79,770. 



180 



THE SOIENOB OF NUTRITION. 



2 poands Macaroni, 


at 


.16 


.80 




2 <' Oatmeal, 


at 


.04 


.08 




)i " Rice, 


at 


.06 


.08 




^ *' Hominy, 


at 


.04 


.02 




1 " Sugar, 


at 


.06 


.05 




— 47 






$3.47 


84,74$ 


104 poanos, total for 80 days. 






$6.78 


114.616 


3.5 «• *» " iday, 






.198 


8,817.0 



Oost per week, $1.28. 





DOTART, No. 7. 








CONSTANTS. 






( 


OALQBEBS. 


22ponnd 


s Flour, 


at 


$0.02^ 


$0.66 




8 " 


Oatmeal, 


at 


.04 


.12 




8 *« 


Oornmeal, 


at 


.08 


.09 




6 " 


Hominy, 


at 


.04K 


.27 




2 " 


Butter, 


at 


.28 


.66 




2 ** 


Suet, 


at 


.06 


.12 




10 ** 


Potatoes, 


at 


.02>i 


.26 




8 •* 


Cabbages, 


at 


.03 


.09 




2 " 


Carrots, 


at 


.02 >i 


.05 




2 " 


Onions, 


at 


.05>i 


.11 




2 «' 


Sugar, 


at 


.06 


.10 




57 


YARIABLIS. 






$2.81 


79,770 


6 pounds Beef, shin, 


at 


$0.06 


$0.80 




4 *« 


Beef, round, 


at 


.15 


.60 




2 " 


Mutton, foreqoarter. 


at 


.10 


.20 




2 " , 


Mutton, neck, 


at 


.06 


.12 




2 " 


Calves' hearts. 


at 


.06 


.10 




2 •• 


Eggs, 


at 


•18 doa. 


.27 




1 " 


Cheese, 


at 


.16 


.16 




15 «« 


Skimmed Milk, 


at 


.02 


.80' 




1 " 


Beans, 


at 


.07 


.07 




X " 


Pease, 


at 


.07 


.04 




2 " 


Halibut, nape, 


at 


.05 


.10 




8 " 


Haddock, 


at 


.08 


.24 




2 " 


Salt Pork, 


at 


.08 


.16 




2 " 


Bacon, 


at 


.12 


.24 




1 " 


Macaroni, 


at 


.16 


.15 





THE SOIENGE OF NUTRITION. 181 



2 pounds Commoal, 

8 " Hominy, 

8 " Sugar, 
-50.6 



107.5 pounds, total for 80 days, 
8.6 *• ** ** Iday, 

Cost per week, $1.80. 



at 


.04 


.08 




at 


.04 


.08 




at 


.06 


.10 


1 






$8.81 


48,812 






$6.62 


122,088 






.187 


4,069.4 



DiETABT, No. a (VKOITABLB DIBT.) 





CONSTANTS. 








82 pounds Flour, 


at 


$0.02^ 


$0.56 


8 ** 


Oatmeal, 


at 


.04 


.12 


8 ** 


Oommeal, 


at 


.08 


.09 


6 " 


Hominy, 


at 


M}i 


.27 


2 •« 


Butter, 


at 


.28 


.66 


2 ** 


Suet, 


at 


.06 


.12 


10 " 


Potatoes, 


at 


•02)i 


.26 


8 " 


Cabbages, 


at 


.08 


.09 


2 '• 


Oarrots, 


at 


.02 >i 


.06 


2 «• 


Onions, 


at 


.o^H 


.11 


2 " 


Sugar, 


at 


.06 


.10 


67 








$2.81 



nAI/TWIML 



With butter in plaoe of suet, adding 44 cents to cost, 44 

$2.76 










VABIABLEa 


4 pounds Pease, 


4 




Beans, 


2 




Eggs, 


80 




Whole Milk, 


2 




Lentils, 


8 




Oatmeal, 


1 




Cheese, 


1 




Barley, 


1 




Buckwheat, 


2 




Macaroni, 


8 




Oommeal, 


2 




Hominy, 


1 




Rye Meal, 


1 




Hulled Oom, 



at 


$0.07 


$0.28 


at 


.07 


.28 


at 


.Iddoz. 


.27 


at 


.08 


.90 


at 


.10 


.20 


at 


.04 


.12 


at 


.16 


.16 


at 


.06 


.05 


at 


.06 


.06 


at 


.15 


.80 


at 


.08 


.09 


at 


.04 


.08 


at 


.08 


.08 


at 


.07 


-07 



79^770 



THB SCIENOB OF NUTBITION. 



4 ponndB Oabbai^, at 

2 " DriodA[)plesorotherfrtiit,at 



120 poands, total f< 



' 80 days, 
I day. 
Cost por week, (1.40. 



$5.99 138,080 
3.00 4,489.8 



OONSTANTB. 



B the 3 lbs. of Saet, bIdoc tbie meat will Kire fat enough. 



2S pounds Flour, 


at $0.02X to 


66 




8 " 


Oa meal, 


at 


04 


18 






Coromeal, 


at 


08 


00 




6 " 


Hominy, 


at 


04 Ji 


97 






Butter, 


at 


88 


60 






Suet, 


at 


00 


13 




10 " 


Potatoes, 


at 


02H 


30 






CHbbagea, 


at 


08 


09 






Oarrota, 


at 


l>2}i 


05 






Ooiona, 


at 


05 J4 


11 






Sugar, 


at 


05 


10 




67 




—  


—12.81— 13— 13 1ft 


79,770 














SpOUDf 


s Be^rf. shin. 


at tO.O< 10 


12 






Beef, rump. 


at 


18 


90 






Mutton leg and chops, 


at 


20 1 


00 




8 " 


Fowl, 


at 


18 


64 






Bacon, 


at 


13 


13 






Salt Pork, 


at 


08 


oa 




2 " 


Erea, 


at 




80 




18 " 


Wnole Milk, 


at 


03 


45 




2 " 


Hncaroni, 


at 


IS 


80 




1 " 


Chee.-e. 


at 


18 


18 




10 " 


Potatoes, 


at 


os^i 


35 






Tomatoes, 


at 


OS 


10 






Turnips, 


at 


03 


06 






Sugar. 


at 


OS 


15 






Butter, 


at 


98 


38 




-— 55 








— «4.81 


88 430 


113 


poands, total for 80 days, 






♦7.00 


138,109 


8.7 


- - " Iday, 






.233 


4,606.0 




Ooflt per week, «1.08. 







> i 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITIOlir. 



183 







Dietary, Ng 


>. 10. 








CONSTANTS. 










CALORIES. 


22 pounds Flour, 




at 


|0.02j{ 


$0.55 




8 " 


Oatmeal, 




at 


.04 


.12 




8 " 


Oorumeal, 




at 


.08 


.00 




6 " 


Hominy, 




at 


.04 ji 


.27 




2 " 


Butter, 




at 


.28 


.66 




2 •* 


Suet, 




at 


.06 


.12 




10 " 


Potatoes, 




at 


.02^ 


.25 


• 


8 •' 


Oabbages, 




at 


.08 


.09 




2 " 


Carrots, 




at 


.02>i 


.05 




2 ** 


Onions, 




at 


.05^ 


.11 




2 *' 


. Sugar, 




at 


.05 


.10 




57 


VARIABLES. 








92.81 


79,770 


8 ponnds^ef, rump, 




at 


$0.22 


$0.66 




1 ** 


Beef liver. 




at 


.10 


.10 




2 " 


Calves* hearts, 




at 


.05 


.10 


 


4 •* 


Mutton,loinor 


forequarter.at 


.20 


.80 




2 " 


Tripe, 




at 


.10 


.20 




2 " 


Pork Chops, 




at 


.12>i 


.26 




1 " 


Salt Pork, 




at 


.08 


.08 




2 " 


Eggs, 




at 


.18 doz. 


.27 




2 " 


Pease, 




at 


.07 


.14 




2 " 


Beans, 




at 


.07 


.14 




16 " 


Whole Millr 




at 


.08 


.49 




6 " 


Fresh Fislv 




at 


.12ji 


.70 




1 " 


Bice, 




at 


.06 


.06 




1 " 


Tapioca, 




at 


.09 


.09 




}i " 


Farina, 




at 


.06 


.08 




1 ** 


Butter, 




at 


.88 


.28 




8 ** 


Sugar, 




at 


.06 


.15 




— 48^ 


pounds, total for 80 daya 


t 




$4.56 

$6.86 


89,088 


106 j< 


118,858 


8.C 


; u ii 


•* 1 day, 






.228 


8,961.9 






Cost per' 


v^eek, $1.60 










Diitabt, Na 11. 








CONSTANTS. 










nATX)BIlR. 


22 pounds Flour, 




at 


•0.03^ 


$0.66 




8 " 


Oatmeal, 




at 


.04 


.12 




8 •* 


Commeal, 




at 


.08 


.09 





1 



184 



THE 60IEXGE OF NUTBITIOir. 



6 pounds Hominy, 



2 * 


Butter, 


2 * 


' Suet, 


10 * 


* Potatoes, 


8 * 


* Cabbages, 


2 « 


* Carrots, 


2 * 


* Onions, 


2 * 


* Sugar, 


5' 


r 




YARIABLRS. 


2 pounds Beef, sirloin, 


3 * 


* Beef, rump. 


8 * 


* Corned Beef, 


2 ' 


* Ham, 


8 * 


* Fowl, 


2}i * 


' Eggs, 


80 * 


* Whole Milk, 


2 * 


* Salt Cod, 


8 * 


< Cracked Wheat, 


2 * 


* Commeal, 


1 * 


' Macaroni, 


1 * 


* Butter, 


3 < 


* Sugar, 



57.5 

1 14. 5 pounds, total for 80 days, 
8.8 *• " " Iday, 

Cost per week, $1.56. 



at 


•04>i 


.27 




at 


.28 


• .58 




at 


.06 


.12 




at 


.02}i 


.25 




at 


.08 


.09 




at 


.02|i 


.05 




at 


.05>4 


.11 




at 


.05 


.10 








$2.81 


79,770 


at 


$0.25 


$0.50 




at 


.18 


.54 




at 


.12|i 


.88 




at 


.12 


.24 




at 


.18 


.54 




at 


.18 doz. 


.80 




at 


.03 


.90 




at 


.08 


.16 




at 


.05 


.15 




at 


.03 


.06 




at 


.15 


.15 




at 


.28 


.28 




at 


.05 


.15 








$4.85 


43,480.5 






$6.60 


128,250.5 






.222 


4,108.0 







DiBTABT, No. 


. 12. 








00NSTANT8. 








CAIOBIXS. 


22 pounf'j Flour, 


at 


$0.02;^ 


$0.55 




8 ** 


Oatmeal, 


at 


.04 


.12 




8 •• 


Cornmeal, 


at 


.03 


.09 




6 «• 


Hominy, 


at 


.04^ 


.27 




2 *• 


Butter, 


at 


.*^» 


.56 




2 " 


Suet, 


at 


.06 


.12 




10 " 


Potatoes, 


at 


.02|i 


.25 




8 •• 


Cabbages, 


at 


.08 


.09 




2 " 


Carrots, 


at 


.02>i 


.05 




2 " 


Onions, 


at 


.05>i 


.11 




2 " 


Sugar, 


at 


.05 


.10 




— 57 








$ 


2.81 79,770 



THB 80IEN0E OF NUTBITIOK. 



185 



VARIABLES. 

6 pounds Beef, sirloin, 



4 * 
4 * 


' Leg Mutton, 
* Lamb or Veal, 


6 * 


• Fresh Fish, 


8 * 

2 • 

16 * 

2 * 


* Eggs, 2X doa., 

* Batter, 

* Whole Milk, 

* Boans, 


2 * 


* Pease, 


2 * 


* Rice, 


1 * 
8 • 


' Tapioca, 
* Farina, 


6 * 


* Sugar, 



at 


$0.26 


$1.50 




at 


.20 


.80 




at 


.15 


.60 




at 


.15 


.90 




at 


.24 doz. 


.64 




at 


.80 


.60 




at 


.08 


.45 




at 


.07 


.14 




at 


.07 


.14 




at 


.06 


.12 




at 


.09 


.09 




at 


.08 


.09 




at 


.05 


.80 




• 




$6.27 

$8.58 


60,820 




180,090 






.286 


4,886.8 



118 pounds, total for 80 days, 
8.70 ** «' ** Iday, 

Oost per week, $2.00. 

This Dietary contains a customary but unwholesome quantity of sugar. 



RECAPITULATION. 



POITNDS AND TENTHS PEB DAT. 



DiETABT 





PBOTEID. 


FAT. 


CABB0HYDBATE8. 


CAIiOBISS. 


ooer. 


1, 


.277 


.809 


0.91 


8,467 


$0,186 


3, 


.811 


.250 


1.07 


8,656 


.138 


8, 


.279 


.809 


0.91 


8,544 


.188 


4, 


.248 


.276 


1.29 


8,955 


.126 


6, 


.871 


.250 


1.16 


4,027 


.194 


6, 


.807 


.811 


1.20 


8,817 


.192 


7, 


.837 


.818 


1.11 


4,069 


.187 


8, 


.830 


.248 


1.50 


4,439 


.200 


», 


.811 


.294 


1.16 


8,940 


.288 


10, 


.828 


.278 


1.17 


8,962 


.228 


11. 


.828 


.291 


1.14 


4,108 


.222 


12. 


.819 


.824 


1.86 


4,886 


.286 



1 



8, 


1.40 


9, 


1.68 


10, 


l.«0 


11, 


1.56 


12, 


2.00 



186 THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

COST PER WSIK. 

Omitting f raotions of a cent 

No. 1, $0.95 No. 7, 11.80 
*• 2, .97 " 

" 8, .98 " 

•* 4, .88 •* 

" 5, 1.85 " 

** 6, 1.28 ** 

Non.— Nearly aU the meat inoluded in these dietaries, oonsists of the tougher portions, which require a lon^ 
time for their suitable preparation, whether subjected to a roasting, baking, simmering or stewing process. 

It will be obserred that the quantities given in the foregoing tables are at the 
weight of the food-material in the condition in which it is bought and sold — the 
water added in the process of preparation and cooking would vary with each com- 
bination. The cost of salt, spice and other accessories will vary with the taste aad 
condition of each consumer. These computations are intended to cover only the 
necessary elements of customary nutrition. 

NoTB.— Copies of these dietaries have been sent by the writer to members of the International Statlstloal 
Society and of the Hygienic Association in Europe, and to many correspondents in this country, with blank cards 
to be filled out and returned. The purpose is to get the prices of the same or corresponding kinds of food in 
dliferent places, and then to be able to compute the relative cost of complete nutrition in this and other countries. 

The results of this investigation may be given in subsequent editions of this treatise.— £. A. 



The following ration is computed by Prof. A. W. Church (Vide Food, South 
Kensington Museum Science Handbook^ 2d Edition, London, Chapman & Hall, 
1889), as being sufficient for an adult man of customary height, nve feet eight 
inches, weighing 154 pounds, who is engaged in work which provides sufficient 
exercise : 



1. 


Bread, 


18 ouDces. 


2. 


Butter, 


1 «« 


8. 


Milk, 


4 " 


4. 


Bacon, 


2 " 


5. 


Potatoes, 


8 •* 


6. 


Cabbage, 


6 " 


7. 


Cheese, 


ZH " 


8. 


Sugar, 


1 «* 


9. 


Salt, 


H " 


10. 


Water alone, or 






in tea, ooffee or beer. 


66X " 



2 pounds lOjK ounces. 
4 " 2X 



(i 



Totals, 6 " 12 }i 



THB SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 187 

If the bread be made at home in the Aladdin Oven, it will cost two and one- 
half cents a pound. If other articles are purchased at Boston prices in Jnly^ 1891. 
the price of this ration will be as follows : 



1. 


Bread, 


18 


ounces 


@ 2}i cents per pound, 2.88 


2. 


Butter, 


1 




@ 82 




it 


*' 2.00 


8. 


MUk, 


4 




@ 8 




(C 


quart, 1.00 


4. 


Bacon, 


2 




@ 12 




IC 


pound, 1.50 


6. 


Potatoes, 


8 




® 2}i 




i( 


** 1 26 


6. 


Oabbage, 


6 




@ 2X 




ii 


" .95 


7. 


Oheese, 


8^ 




@ 16 




4C 


" 8.50 


8. 


Sugar, 


1 




@ 6 




« 


" .87 


9. 


Salt, 


H 




® say 





.05 




2 lbs. 10>^ oz. 


Bnts, 18.50 



If the bread were bought at London prices, where home-made bread is almost 
unknown^ but where bakers' bread is much cheaper than it is in Boston, the cost of 
this ration, which is wiihout meat except the small quantum of bacon, would come 
to what fifteen cents would buy here. It would be interesting to price this ration 
in London and in other cities of Europe and also in other cities of this country. 

In order that the unlearned may know what the chemistry of the oven and of 
the digestive organs do with this material^ reference may be made to Prof. Church's 
most interesting and scientific, and, at the same time, very practical treatise. 

The subsequent recipes have been tested in a cooking pail which is not yet 
perfected but may soon be made for sale. The same results may, however^ be at- 
tained by placing the materials in porcelain or earthen pots or jars with covers — 
placing them in the Aladdin Oven over a moderate lamp for the time prescribed, 
or if the cook can be trusted place the cooking boxes on the back of the stove in 
such a place that the contents cannot be subjected to a high heat. 

It will be observed that the time named in most of these recipes is five hours. 
According to my own experience a great many compounds which are cooked in two 
or three hours may remain in the oven in closed vessels for five hours or even more 
without the least injury. 

£. A. 



188 



THB SOIENGE OF NUlBITIOK. 



TABLE SHOWING THE COMPUTATION OP DIETARY No. 1, 

on the basis of which the comparisons previously given were made. It is one of 
a series of twelve dietaries of varying cost which are given in the test of ^'The 
Science of Nutrition.'' 



Constants which enter into the Subsequent Dietariss, Nos. 1 to 12 inclusive. 



ABTICfLX. POUKDB. 


PROTBID. 


»AT. 


Flour, 


22 


2.64 


.44 


Grain, 


12 


1.68 


.84 


Butter, 


2 


.02 


1.78 


Suet, 


2 




1.78 


Sugar, 
Potatoes, 


2 

10 


.20 




Beets, 








Carrots, 








OnioDS, 
Squash, 
Cabbage, 
Parsnips, 


' 7 


.18 


.08 


For 80 days, 
For 1 day, 


67 
1.90 


4.67 
.156 


4.82 
.160 



OABBO-BTDBATX. 
15.18 

7.60 



1.98 
2.10 



.50 



27.81 
.910 



0AIX>BIX8. 

86,520 
19,800 
7,280 
7,200 
8,600 
4,800 



1,120 



79,770 
2,659 



008T AT BOVrOB 
FBICE8 1891. 

ftO.55 

.48 
.56 
.12 
.10 
.25 



.25 



$2.81 
.077 



Variables in Table No. 1, showing Method of Analysis applied to each Table. 

Beef neck 

or shin, 12 (»«j;i;j|i»») 2.00 

Mutton, neck, 5 

Bacon, 4 

Beef liver, 2 

Veal, 1 

Salt pork, 1 



2.00 


.40 


.62 


.84 


.40 


2.80 


.40 


.10 


.19 


.03 


.03 


.78 


8.64 


• 

4.45 


8.81 


9.27 


.277 


.809 



For 30 days, 25 

Total, 82 

Fori day, 2.73 

The prices on which these computations are made were the retail prices in 
Boston, Mass., IT. S. A., in the first six months of the year 1891. 



- 


5,200 


.72 




2,476 


.80 




11,840 


.48 




1,120 


.12 




460 


.08 




8,160 


.08 




24 256 


1.78 


27.81 


10 ,026 


04.09 


.910 


8,467.05 


.186 



COMPARATIVE NUTRITION. 



*»» 



While this book upon ''The Science of Nutrition '^ was going through the 
press, a beginning has been made in treating the subject of comparative nutrition. 

When the twelve dietaries which have been given in the previous treatise had 
been prepared, it seemed probable that some use might be made of them in deter- 
mining the relative cost of nutrition at the American standard in different states and 
countries. I could not of course expect to make anything but a crude beginning 
in this matter, because the habit of nutrition, if one may use this expression, varies 
greatly according to soil, climatCi conditions and wages. 

In countries where meat is scarce, the chief source of nitrogen is found in a 
large relative consumption of cheese or of beans or other legumes. How, for the 
price of a suitable day^s ration may be equalized by the purchase of cheese or legumes 
in place of meat, remains to be dealt with. For the moment a few comparisons may 
be interesting. 

It will be observed that in the twelve dietaries given, the Ooustants consisting 
of grain, vegetables and a modicum of butter or fat are uniform; they are computed 
in sufficient quantities to support life and are named 

THE LIFE BATION. 

The Variables, consisting mainly of n^eat, are given of different quantities, at 

different prices, and are named 

« 

THE WORK BATIOK. 

All prices are given at retail for small quantities, except flour, which is assumed 
to be purchased by the sack or barrel. 

Bations corresponding to Dietaries Nos. 1 to 4, have been computed in various 
places, with the following results: 

Cost of 57 lbs. gruin, vegetables i^nd fat and 25 lbs. of the cheap cuts of meat, 
82 pounds in all; sufficient for rations for 30 days, at 3467 Calories per day, the 
standard of a German soldier on a war footing being 3093 Calories. 



190 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 



Datx. 

1891. 
April' 

Kovember. 

December. 

September. 

September. 

November. 

October. 

September. 

October. 

December. 

October. 

October. 

1892. 

February. 

January. 

March. 



LiFB Ration. Work Ration. 

80 days. 30 days. 



Boston, Mass., U. S. A. (short crop of 

vegetables, 1890), . . . . 

Boston, Mass., U. S. A. (vegetables 
abundant), 

Bismarck, K Dakota, U. S. A., 

Paris, France, 

London, £ngland (in workman's section), 

London, England (in West End shops), 

Madison, Wisconsin, U. S. A., . 

Beyrouth and Nuremburg, Germany, 

Topeka, Kansas, U. S. A., 

New Orleans, La., U. S. A., . 

Lincoln, Nebraska, U. S. A., . 

Ann Arbor, Michigan, U. S. A., 



brussels, Belgium, 
Dresden, Germany, 
Munich, Bavaria, 



$2.31 

2.08 
1.43 
2.00 
2.16 
2.42 
1.70 
2.52 
1.54 
2.40 
1.38 
1.87 

2.63 
8.14 
3.30 



$1.78 

1.77 
2.42 
2.81 
2.52 
3.60 
1.77 
3.76 
1.53 
1.92 
1.78 
1.86 

8.93 
8.30 
3.63 



Total. 

30 days. 

$4.09 

3.85 
3.85 
4.81 
4.08 
6.02 
8.47 
6.29 
3.07 
4.31^ 
3.16 
3.73 

6.46 
6.44 
6.93 



Boston, Mass., 
Boston, Mass., 
Bismarck, N. Dakota, 
Paris, France, 
London, England, 
London, England, 
Madison, Wis., 
Beyreuth and Nuremburg, 
Topeka, Kansas, 
New Orleans, La., 
Lincoln, Neb., 
Ann Arbor, Mich., 
Brussels, Belgium, 
Dresden, Germany, 
Munich, Bavaria, 



Germany 



Ldv Ratioh, 
Cbntb pnb Dat. 

7.70 

6.93 

4.77 

6.66 

7.20 

8.06 

5.66 

8.40 

5.18 

8.00 

4.60 

6.23 

8.43 
10.05 
11.00 



WOBK RaTIOV, 

Cnm PBB Dat. 

5.93 

5.90 

8.07 

9.37 

8.40 
12.00 

5.90 
12.53 

5.10 

6.40 

5.93 

6.20 
13.10 
11.00 
12.10 



Total 
CBvn FIB Dat. 

18.63 

12.83 

12.84 

16.03 

15.60 

20.06 

11.56 

20.93 

10.23 

14.40 

10.53 

12.43 

21.53 

21.05 

23.10 



The two returns from Dresden and Munich show the effect of the short crop of grain 
in 1891 upon prices. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 191 

I can of course claim only approximate accuracy for these comparisons. The 
personal equation will have a varying influence in obtaining prices. The habits 
of the people must be taken into view. In Boston, for instance, the tougher and 
coarser parts of beeves are sold for food; in Bismarck, North Dakota, they are 
probably put into the fat-rendering vats, not even being prepared for sale. 

I have also been disappointed in the small number of returns received in reply 
to my circular, but yet hope to extend this inquiry, as there are now several associa- 
tions in this ccnctry and in Europe which have taken up this matter in different ways. 

Suffice it that e\en this beginning is very suggestive. It proves that where the 
nitrogenous element in food is abundant and cheap, labor is effective and wages are 
high. Where the nitrogenous element is scarce and dear, labor is not effective and 
wages are low. 

Which is the antecedent and which is the consequent ? 

It will be observed that there is a much greater uniformity in the price of the 
Life Ration than of the Work Ration. May not this indicate a deficiency of nitrogen 
as the cause of low rates of wages? 

Again, if one may venture upon a somewhat visionary hypothesis, another com- 
parison may be made and another question may be asked. 

Where the burden of Armies and Navies is heavy — nitrogenous food is scarce 
among the people — the army must be sustained even if the poor workmen starve. 
Witness Russia at the present time. Why must armies be sustained ? 

The army and the naval forces of the United States number only about 30,000 
men and are all that we require. At the ratio to population of European armies 
and navies, making comparison only with the force in camp or barracks and paying 
no regard to reserves, our army and naval forces would number from 600,000 to 
800,000 men; and since it takes the product of at least one man to support one 
worse than idle soldier, such a burden would be equivalent to setting apart ten per 
cent, or more of all the men of arms-bearing age from the productive and con- 
structive work in which they are now occupied, to waste the most valuable and 
effective portion of their lives in the destructive work of preparation for war. 

The mere money cost of this system of militarism which is eating away the 
vital force of most of the European States is about $1,000,000,000 a year. I am 
aware that army drill and discipline is justified as a mode of education. What does 
it cost? In Germany women do the scavenger work — sweep the streets — mix the 
mortar for the builders and perform the hardest work of the field, while the 
men, at the most productive period of efficiency, are obtaining the education 
thus claimed to be justified. France is a little better off, but many parts of Italy 
are worse. 



192 THE SCIENCB OF NUTRITION. 

Ifc will be observed that the Science of Nutrition is not confined to the domestic 
kitchen or to the recipe book. 

As the supply of food comes to half the cost of life or more^ in many parts of 
tbis prosperous country^ so the barbaric folly may be conceived of taxing the masses 
for the support of the classes by whom the military system is sustained and the 
military caste is supported in Europe. 

In a recent prominent English review there appeared an article upon *^ The 
causes and effects of cruelty in conscript armies/^ which is significant^ perhaps pro- 
phetic. When conscript soldiers who are kept under drill by cruelty are ordered to 
fire upon their own hungry brethren who are yet more oppressed^ the guns may be 
turned upon the oppressors. It is claimed that European countries are prospering, 
but the national debts for war purposes are constantly increasing, and there is an 
increasing dependence upon other continents for the supply of food. These are bad 
signs, the classes may prosper more but how is it with the masses? 

The foregoing statements of the relative cost of nutrition must indicate that the 
proportionate cost of food to other elements in the cost of living is less in the west- 
ern states and cities than in the East or in Europe. In fact, the relation of food 
supply to the rate of earnings is even a more important factor than now appears. 
One can even predicate a rule on what is now known. It may be put in this form: 
To him that hath food in abundance shall be given the power to gain more; from 
hin^ that bath not shall be taken even that which he hath. 

These considerations bring into view the importance of the problem of securing 
a supply of nitrogen at less cost. Our Agricultural Chemists and Physiologists tell 
us that nitrogen is the most important, and at the same time the least abundant and 
most costly element in the nutrition of the plant, the beast and the man. The 
atmosphere is four- fifths nitrogen and we can't yet catch it: the iron smelting fur- 
naces of this country are giving off ammonia enough to supply nitrogen to our fields, 
in large measure and we waste it. We have begun to save the phosphatic slag of the 
furnaces for use as a fertilizer, and thus to convert iron ore into corn and wheat — 
the next man will save the ammonia. In the meantime. Prof. Atwater and his associ- 
ates are summoning the myriads of bacteria and microbes to our aid, who, living in 
their little dwelling places attached to the roots of clover, cow pea vines and 
other renovating plants, draw nitrogen from the air supplying the plant which, 
when turned under, renovates the soil. 

In winding up this somewhat desultory series of treatises in which all the science 
has been contributed by my friends, I am reminded of my investigations in other 
lines and directions which have been previously published. I have been led by all 
my work to the conclusion that it is Production which is Unlimited; Consumption 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 193 

which is Limited. (See Introduction to the laduBtrial Progress of tbe Nation. 
6. P. Putnam^s Sons.) 

The hypotheses of Malthns in respect to population and of Ricardo and others 
in regard to diminishing returns from land, have as yet no apparent foundation m 
science or experience^ and may be wholly discarded. 

The present need in this country is not so much of instruction how to earn but 
how to spend ^an income, especially a small one. If tbe energy which corresponds 
to the present waste of food material could be spent for more adequate shelter, the 
eyils of the slums would be abated and the bad tenements in the slums would be 
renovated. One may be warranted in estimating the present waste of food and fuel 
at five cents a day for each person, which is approximately twenty per cent, of the 
expenditure. To this we may add two cents a day, or less than half what is annu- 
ally spent for liquors and tobacco— say seven cents a day in all. There are about 
65,000,000 of us now, divided into 13,000,000 average families of five each. 

At seven cents a day the measure of our waste of energy in converting good food 
into bad feeding, and upon liquor and tobacco at less than half their cost, amounts 
in each year to $1,660,750,000. If this waste of misdirected energy were converted 
into better methods of providing shelter, it would enable each family of five persons 
to spend $127^^ a year more for their dwelling places than they do now. 

Suppose the waste only four cents a day, two cents on food and two on liquor 
and tobacco, even that comes to nearly $1,000,000,000 — worth of misdirected 
energy — and the waste is greatest among those who can spare it least. The Imagi- 
nation is the most potent force or factor in Religion, in Education, in Business 
and also in Economic Science and Statistics: its place in Literature is acknowledged. 

How far I have succeeded in bringing Imagination, as well as a little Fancy into 
a Cookery Book, I must now leave to my readers to determine. 

Ilow much of this book may be attributed to a true Imagination, forecasting 
the near future when a good subsistence, comfortable shelter and adequate clothing 
will be so well assured to him or her who possesses health, aptitude and intelligence 
that it won't pay to be rich, and how much of it is mere fancy, the writer himself 
may not be able to tell. Suffice it that the following statements are of fact, and 
not of fancy or imagination . 

Any intelligent boy can be taught in one lesson of one hour how to get up a 
five-course dinner for ten persons, consisting of Soup, Pish, Roast, Entr^e^ Vegeta- 
bles and Pudding. I state this because I have done it. 

Any intelligent girl can be taught to make and bake the best of bread by the 
use of the implements named in this treatise, without touching flour or dough with 
her hands. I state this because I have done it. 



194 THE SCIENCE OF NUTBITION. 

The fuel oil required for the cooking for a family of ten persons for one hundred 
days at the seaside in summer^ can be bought at retail at less than one cent a day for 
each person. I state this because I have practiced it. 

Any five intelligent women who can combine to live together in Boston in com- 
fortable rooms in the new part of the city, can hire such rooms heated, with the 
service of a janitor added, at ^62^*^ per year each; they can purchase an adequate 
and comfortable supply of clothing at $62^^ each; they can purchase the food and 
fuel necessary to complete nutrition, with tea and coffee added, for ^^2-^ each, and 
within the limit of an income of 1250 each one can apply t&2^f^ to sundries. I 
make this statement because I have personally verified every point. 

I may not recommend this plan because those who possess the intelligence which 
would enable them to live in this way cannot perhaps afford to spend the time which 
would be necessary to such a plan, but will be able to earn more so as to spend more* 

On the other hand, a great many of those who live dirty and ill-nourished lives 
in the slums could live comfortably and well upon their incomes, which in very 
many cases are ample, if they could only be taught how to spend them. My obser- 
vations are limited mainly to the conditions of towns and cities. How far they can 
be applied in the rural districts and in strictly agricultural communities, I am 
unable to say. 

In College Cities or towns in which the Corporation of the College supplies the 
land without rent. College Buildings can be constructed in suites of ten rooms, 
• eight for dormitory and study, two for kitchen and dining-room, — ^as safe, as strong, 
as slow burning, as well lighted, as well heated and as well ventilated as the modern 
cotton factory is, which must possess all these attributes in order that the cotton 
may be spun, at a cost of not exceeding $800 per student — probably less. On this 
sum a rent of t62^f^ per student would pay five per cent, interest, insurance, 
repairs and depreciation. I state this because I ha^ve made plans corresponding to 
the factories about which I know all the facts and have had estimates made upon 
them by competent mill constructors. 

I have said that the education most needed now is how to spend, more than how 
to earn. I find as much evidence of this in the present expenditures upon Hospitals, 
College Buildings and Schoolhouses as I do in the conversion of good food into 
bad feeding. In the ordinary practice of combustible architecture, of which this 
class of buildings are apt to be typical examples, I find hospitals in which the 
inmates are exposed to cremation before they are dead, covered in with crazy roofs 
which do not keep out the weather; College Buildings which give the minimum of 
space and comfort at the maximum of cost, in which poor students can only be 
admitted by accepting charity; and finally Schoolhouses in which about two in 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 195 

three are bad types of separate invention on different plans^ each more or less 
unsuitable to its purpose and costing from fifty to five hundred per cent, more than 
the sum for which a true typical schoolhouse can be constructed if the motive of 
the work be light, air and ventilation rather than outside appearances. 

A typical schoolhouse can be planned and specified in interchangeable parts, so 
that orders could be given for four, six, eight and ten-room buildings of good 
exterior design and exactly adapted to their purpose within, with the same absolute 
assurance of minimum cost that has been secured in the construction of the textile 
factory, the paper mill and the machine shop of New England. 

In the light basement of this schoolhouse nearly or wholly above ground, as a 
schoolhouse ought never to have a cellar under it, provision may be made for the 
service of the building, for manual instruction and for a Cooking Laboratory, in 
which instruction may be given in the simple principles of the Science of Nutrition 
and in the Art of Applying Heat under due control and regulation to the conver- 
sion of food material into nutritious food. This can be done without incumbering 
the premises with costly stoves or ranges, but by making very simple provision for 
cooking the food whatever it may be, in such a manner as to enable the boy or girl 
to carry back to the household such an example of the right method as to make 
the common practice distasteful. If the true kind of cooking apparatus, such as 
is used in the New England Kitchen, were set up, any kind of food coald be dealt 
with, and in this way right methods might soon be brought into common practice. 

With these dogmatic statements, which are neither the product of fancy or 

imagination, I will rest my case. 

EDWARD ATKINSON. 
Boston, March 1, 1892. 



THE WHOLESALE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



■t*^ 



So much has been done within a few years in the way of canning food that it 
wonld seem superfluous to oonsider any other method of preparation in the laxgd 
way, but certain disadvantages inhere in these methods which render the question 
still an open one. 

I. At present, canned food has been subjected^ in order to kill ail the agents of 
decomposition (the microscopic plants and their spores) to a temperature far too 
high or for too long a time, if the best flavor of the food is to be retained. Henoe 
one tires of canned food. 

II. The contact with metal injures the flavor of some things; glass may be 
too expensive. 

III. The presence of solder in the can is a source of danger. 

IV. The can once opened^ the contents should be eaten at once, since such food 
is more liable to decay than that which is fresh. 

V. The above requirements place most canned goods beyond the reach of per- 
sons of small means, and small packages have all the above mentioned evils inten- 
sified, beside the inevitable waste of material clinging to the dish. 

In every city and town there is a mass of good food material practically going 
to waste because it costs too much time or too much knowledge to make it into 
wholesome or palatable dishes. To utilize it, some central station or kitchen should 
be established in which it can be prepared on well-proved principles and distributed 
by sale — daily, as bread, meat and milk are distributed. 

In several foreign countries, notably Germni^v, "Peoples' Kitchens" (Volkes- 
kueche) have been established. In 1890 there were fourteen Volkeskueche in Berlin, 
in which were served 2,187,804 meals at noon, an average of 6,000 per day for 365 
days, or 428 in each kitchen. Eighty per cent, of the meals cost 6^ cents each and 
14 per cent, cost 1} cents; the remaining 6 per cent, cost 3} cents each. The 
cost of running each kitchen was about $6,500 a year, but the oversight is done by 
volunteers. 

The 6^ cents portion contains the proper nutrition in the right proportions, and 
consists of a pint and a half of soup and three pieces of meat or fish weghing 6} 
ounces. 



THE 8CIBNCB OF NUTRITION. * 197 

The dishes prepared are chiefly beans^ pease and cabbage, with meats of differ- 
ent kinds. 

The aim and results of these establishments are ably set forth in the accoant of 
the twenty-fifth anniversary of the starting of those in Berlin, just published. The 
following extracts are taken from Frau Morgenstern's paper: 

" The greatest task before the civilized world of our time is the solution of the 
social question. The secret lies in the equalization of the different conditions of 
life by every possible elevation of the destitute and poorer classes, especially that of 
the diiy laborer. Advancing their material well-being improves the possibilities of 
their social and spiritual development. , 

" Before one can attempt to develop higher ideals for the advancement and 
happiness of the people, the food problem must be solved, then that of shelter. 
Only when the animal is satisfied can the spiritual man be reached. The hungry, 
the homeless man is unhappier among his fellow-beings than the wild animal of the 
woods who finds his home and food anywhere. Is it not a natural consequence when 
the hungry and the homeless become like wild animals, break through the laws of 
society and possess themselves through crime of what they want? 

''Jacob Moleschott, the famous physiologist, in speaking of the moral effect of 
'enough to eat' says 'Courage, good-will, and love of work depend in the highest 
degree on healthful, sufficient food — hunger lays waste the head and the heart.' 

" For the working man only the best and most concentrated food is good enough.'' 

But, as in many other things, while we may learn much from other lands, we 
should modify and adapt to suit our American conditions and to suit the spirit of 
our people and ways. Home and family life are our strongholds, the cafe living of 
Paris and the Volkeskueche of Berlin are alike foreign to our best ideas. We have even 
clung to the home manufacture of bread as no other nation on earth has done. We 
are slow to adopt any principle of cooperative living. The free American likes to 
be free in his selection of food, and preserves his individuality at the expense of his 
stomach as well as of his purse. This is the real reason why cooperative kitchens 
have hitherto failed; no two families like the same food or the same flavors. The 
problem, then, with us is a somewhat difficult one. The food must go to the families 
and not the people to the food, and only such dishes must be attempted as can have 
a somewhat ^cosmopolitan flavor, and such as can be easily prepared and will not 
suffer by being kept two or three hours, or will bear reheating. 

The attempt to test the feasibility of such wholesale preparation of food was 
made in Boston, beginning in January, 1890, under the direction of Mrs. Mary 
Ilinman Abel, and was made possible only by the generous financial support of Mrs. 
Quincy A. Shaw, to whom the scientific side of the question, as well as the far- 



198 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

reaching philanthropy, appealed most strongly. ** The Story of the Kitchen " has been 
most ably and entertainingly told by Mrs. Abel in her reports to ^Irs. Shaw. Under the 
skilful management of Miss S. E. Wentworth, the work has been constantly enlarging and 
running in new channels. 

Of the various branches which have been started, some have failed because of loca- 
tion and insufficient patronage; not, however, without each teaching its own lesson in this 
stmly of the food problem. The kitchen in New York, 841 Hudson Street, was fortunate 
in having Mr. Theodore A. Ilavemeyer as its financial sponsor, and Dr. Thomas Egleston, 
the eminent professor of metallurgy at the Columbia School of I^Iines, as its director. This 
is the model kitchen as yet, being fitted up after experience in three others, and it is at 
present the Mecca of all those who desire to study such plants. 

The kitchen at Hull House, the Chicago Settlement of Chicago at 336 South Halsted 
Street, combines the American idea with the foreign practice, and not only sells soup by 
the quart to take away, but has an attractive restaurant in connection with it. This bids 
fair to be the most successful plan. 

An exhibition was made of portions of the work at the World's Columbian Exposi- 
tion at Chicago, under the able management of Miss Maria Daniell. It was called the 
Rumford Kitchen, and in a measure celebrated the 100th anniversary of Count Rumford's 
work in Bavaria and Italyj which was the birth of the Science of Nutrition, as he him- 
self called it. 

Tlie scientific aspect of the question of nutrition has been studied in connection with 
the daily work of the kitchen, for it is in such connection that the full value and signifi- 
cance of the results of scientific research can be best appreciated. For this research, a 
grant was received from the Elizabeth Thompson Science Fund, and also generous aid 
from Mr. Andrew Carnegie, his partner Mr. Henry Phipps, Jr., and from Mr. Henry L. 
Pierce and others. 

Much of the scientific thought embodied in this treatise, imperfect though it is, is the 
direct outcome of this work. Much material is still in hand. 

In no way can money be better made to serve the people than by securing to them 
good food and by teaching them to like it, so that they will be willing to learn to prepare it. 

E. H. R« 

In using the Aladdin Oven for cooking on a large scale, cookers are made of tin-lined 
copper or of stout tin without solder on the inside, or of Russia iron, which fill the whole 
inside space. They have handles which fold down, and tight covers. Those for the 
Standard Oven hold about thirty quarts. The contents of this size are cooked by a single 
lamp^ which burns one quart of oil in eight or nine hours. 



the science op nutrition. 199 

Beef Broth. 

This is made from the most nutritious parts, neck and shin, trimmed, skinned and 
wiped so that no particle is left which can give an unpleasant flavor. The meat is cut 
from the bone in strips, and the bone cracked. Twenty pounds of meat and twenty pounds 
of bone are packed in the cooker, fifteen quarts of cold water added, and the whole placed 
in the cold Aladdin Oven. At four o'clock the lamp is lighted and the work of extraction 
of the juices begins. At the end of four and one-half hours the temperature of the water 
is oi\Jy IGO** F. ; in seven and one-half hours it is 200° F. ; in nine hours it reaches 
212° F., for a short time just as the lamp goes out. 

When the kitchen is closed for the night, about half-past six o'clock, a freshly filled 
lamp, containing one quart of oil, replaces the one which has been burning since four 
o'clock. This lamp goes out about four o'clock in the morning, and the broth is still 
about 180° F. at six o'clock, when it is strained through a colander, made up to twenty- 
five quarts with boiling water which is used to rinse the bones, and set away to cool in 
order that the fat may be completely removed. This cooling must take place quickly 
after the fat has risen to the top — best in a stream of cold water. When properly cooled 
and kept cold, there will be no change under a week, but it is sold for invalid broth only 
on the day it is prepared. 

The broth should be a decided jelly when cold, and should, contain four and one-half 
per cent, of solid matters, and should equal milk in nitrogenous value. 

This standard beef broth or stock is not only the invalid broth, but is also the basis 
of other soups which may be varied to suit the tastes of the customers ; only it is never 

clarified or robbed of the precious flakes of albumen. 

» 

Tomato Soup. 

The tomato soup which has proved so popular is made as follows : 

Eight quarts canned tomatoes, first quality, six quarts water, eight bay leaves, thirty-two 
grains allspice, twenty-four cloves, thirty-two pepper-corns. All brought to the boiling point and 
boiled twenty minutes and strained. There is added : Eight quarts of stock, three ounces sugar, 
three ounces salt, one teaspoonful white pepper, one teaspoonful soda. While this is heating stir 
thirty ounces of flour into two and one-half quarts water, heat to boiling, add three ounces clarified 
drippings, and stir into the hot soup. This should measure twenty-four quarts, 

 

Vegetable Soup. 

To make twenty-four quarts use : Twelve quarts stock, six quarts water, nine quarts cooked 
vegetables, and barley according to the season. These can be so varied as to make a dozen dif- 
ferent kinds. 



200 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



Beef Stew. 

Several kinds may be made after the general plan. The following rule (for twenty 
quarts), modified from the Pennsylvania Pepper Pot, has proved most popular, being 
exceedingly nutritious and tasty, and of low cost. 

Eight quarts stock, four quarts water, three quarts potatoes (cut in dice), one teaspoonful 
white pepper, two teaspoonfuls salt, ten ounces flour, six ounces dripping, twelve cloves, twelve 
allspice, twelve pepper-corns, one teaspoonful celery seed, two bay leaves, two quarts meat dice, 
one quart dry dumpling or noodles.* « 

Stock, water, salt and pepper heated to boiling. Spices bruised and cooked ten minutes in 
a little water, then strained into the soup. Fat and flour cooked together, wet with cold broth 
and strained into soup. Add dumplings, cook until soft, and then add meat and potato dice. 

Another of the standard soups of high nutritive value and low cost is the 

^ Pea Soup. 

For thirty-six quarts use : Twelve pounds dried peas, four pounds lean pork or a ham bone, 
jne pound onions, four teaspoonfuls savory, one teaspoonful marjoram, one teaspoonful thyme, 
one teaspoonful white pepper, one-half teaspoonful red pepper, ten ounces salt, twenty quarts 
cold water. 

Place the cooker in the cold Aladdin Oven about four o'clock and change the lamp for a 
fresh one at half-pa^t six, as in the case of the standard broth. In the morning strain, add water 
to make up thirty-six quarts. Stir ten ounces of flour into water and add with constant stirring. 
Bring the whole to the boiling point. 

Beans and lentils may be made into soup in the same manner, and either milk ^r 
water may be used to reduce the soup if it is too hearty. 

The food value of these standard dishes has been calculated as follows, in grammes : 







PBOTEID. 


FAT. 


CABBOHTDBATKS. 


OAI/>Bn 


1. 


One quart beef broth, 


41.0 


1.0 


• • 


174.4 


2. 


One quart tomato soup, 


24.9 


6.8 


80.4 


283.8 


3. 


One quart barley soup. 


25.4 


8.6 


48.5 


380.4 


4. 


One quart beef stew. 


52.2 


14.1 


52.6 


555.9 


5. 


One quart pea soap, 


36.8 


26.7 


85.7 


743.2 



Fish Balls. 

To make five dozen use : Two pounds one ounce boneless codfish, six pounds four ounces 
pared raw potatoes. Boil in water until soft. After draining, add three ounces dripping, and 
beat until perfectly light and very smooth. When cooled somewhat add four well beaten eggs and 
salt to taste. Brown in dee^^r fat. 

* One-third teaspoonfnl salt, one-third pint stock, two-thirds tableepoonfnl dripping. Flour to stiffen, makes 
atx>ut one quart noodles. 



the science of nutrition. 201 

Corn Bread. 

This may be made in cakes or sheets. For five dozen cakes use : Three pints flour, two 
pints Indian meal, three pints milk, three eggs, seven ounces sugar, six ounces dripping, three 
ounces baking powder, one teaspoonful salt. Bake slowly and thoroughly. 

Indian Pudding. 

One quart milk, seven and one-half ounces com meal, three gills molasses, two ounces 
butter, two teaspoonfuls salt, one tablespoonful sugar, one-quarter teaspoonful nutmeg, one-half 
teaspoonful cinnamon, three-quarters teaspoonful ginger. Steam two and one-half hours, then add 
one quart cold milk, and bake two hours in Aladdin, which is heated to begin with. This makes 
two and one-half quarts. 

Rice Pudding. • 

Two tablespoonfuls rice, one tablespoonful sugar, one-half teaspoonful 'salt, one quart milk. 
Makes one quart, or two puddings. Bake three and one-half hoars in Aladdin, which is hot be- 
fore the puddings are put in. 



TESTIMONIALS. 



I may be permitted to present some of the replies which have been given to my 
qnestions. It will be apparent that I have taken all reasonable precautions so as 
not to mislead any one. It is my own opinion that this apparatus^ or a better one 
corresponding to it, will ultimately work a complete revolution in the processes of 
cooking. Whether I am mistaken or not, will presently appear from the following 
letters which have been written by those who have made use of the ovens. They 
have been sent to me in response to the single request that those who have used the 
ovens would state to me their results and give the facts as they are. E. A. 

In a report to the trustees of the Elizabeth Thompson Fund, Mrs. Ellen II. 
Bichards gives her conclusions as to the requirements of an ideal cooking apparatus, 
as follows : 

ESSENTIALS FOR GOOD COOKING. 

APPARATUS. 

For ordinary Oooking apparatus the following are essential points : 

1. The degree of heat should be under perfect control ; increased, diminished 
or withdrawn at will, and without loss of time« This can only be attained with 
liquid or gaseous fuel. Solid fuel demands constant and equable running and gives 
the best results when used in large masses. The small fire-box of a cook stove, and 
the urging of the fire for a short time three times a day are fatal objections to the 
use of anthracite. 

2. A tightly closed vessel heated by steam, or hot water, or hot air, offers 
many advantages over the top of a red-hot stove or the inside of a nearly red-hot 
cast-iron oven for cooking, except for the broiling and the roasting of meat and for 
some other methods of cookery which require the quick application of heat. 

3. For all purposes of slow cooking the oven should have a non-conducting 
covering which retains the heat where it is wanted, and also allows of tight closing 
and of security from the constant watching required by the fitful heat of a stove. 



THE 8CIBNCB OF NUTRITIOK. 203 

This use of a close oven with a non^eyaporative atmosphere^ seems to be the 
secret of the retention of the delicate and yolatile flavors which usually flavor the 
house and street^ and not the food as it is brought to the table. 

The Aladdin Oven or Covered Stove. This is a square or oblong box of sheet 
iron of any desired size^ with a non-conducting covering of magnesian cement or 
wood pulp^ and is heated with a kerosene lamp or gas burner. The size in use for • 
these experiments is 18 by 12 by 14 inches^ and gives a cooking space at least equal 
to that of a No. 8 Crawford cook stove^ and when empty can be heated to about 
300^ F. in an hour^ and maintain that temperature for eight hours by a single 
kerosene lamp of the Bochester burner type^ with the consumption of one quart of 
kerosene. When well filled with food materials in small portions the heat is 
sufficient to heat them in about twice the time allowed by an ordinary cook stove. 
When the space is completely filled with a vessel containing, for instance, forty 
pounds of meat and bone and fifteen quarts of water, the whole is raised from a 
temperature of 70'' to 180** F. in seven hours, and to 212° in twelve hours. If the 
lamp is then taken away or allowed to go out, the temperature does not fall below 
190° for four hours. • 

For this twelve hours, one and one-half quarts of kerosene are needed, or a gas 
burner can be used. For simplicity, effective use of heat, economy of fuel and 
development of flavor in the food cooked, combined with increase of its digestibility, 
the Aladdin Oven is an apparatus far exceediug in merit any other now in market. 
It will not meet all the demands that the modem cook now makes of the kitchen 
stove, and it may be in several respects improved, but in the application of well- 
known and long-tried scientific principles to the cookery of food, it is a distinct 
advance and a most valuable invention. 



Port Arthur, Ontario, Canada, May 11, 1890. 
Edward Atkinson, Esq., Brookline, Mass. 

I gladly furnish my testimony in favor of your Aladdin Oven, for I feel that I 
can hardly say too much in praise of its numerous merits : 

Its economy of fuel, not only in the limited amount actually consumed, and the 
low price thereof, but in the amount saved from waste whilst no cooking is going 
on, or during the slow simmering processes. 

Its economy of time and labor, as the amount of requisite attention paid to the 
food duriug the process of cooking is so small ; and there is no building of fire, and 
watching and regulating the same. 



204 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

Its economy of food itself, for none of it need be wasted or spoiled, even by 
heedless people. 

Its cleanliness ; no ashes ; no dust ; ho soot ; no smoke from chimney or lamp. 

Its contribution to comfort, not only as shown in above items, but also in pre- 
serving an even temperature in the kitchen or the house, and more especially 
during the summer, in escaping all extra heat ; and also in the avoidance of steam, 
and the absolute freedom from the odors given ofE from the food in cooking, often 
very offensive, as from some vegetables, from corned meats, and the like ; no smell 
from any scorched or burned food ; no smell of kerosene smoke, nor of coal gas. 

Its convenience in the instantaneotis starting and extinguishing of the heat, 
and the increasing or modifying , of the same, without the trouble of attending to 
the fires, etc., etc. 

Its convenience also in having everything handy at meal times, as the oven, 
whilst in actual use, can be kept within arm's length of the dinner table, without 
the least offense of any sort to the family or guests. 

Its convenience also in lighting up the apartment, if desired, at the same 
moment that it is doing its proper work of cookery. 

Its most notable convenience to early risers, laborers and others, or to nursers or 
watchers, in doing its work automatically through the night, and furnishing a hot 
breakfast at any desirable hour, all ready to hand ; or in the same way serving 
bachelors, who must be absent during the day, to find a hot meal awaiting their 
return. 

Its ministering to the pleasures of the gastronomer or to the delicate palate of 
the invalid, by giving such marked improvement to the fiavors and the tenderness 
of fish, fiesh and fowl — of breads, cakes and other viands. Many old dishes acquire 
a new charm in this oven. 

Its conducing to the health of those who use it (and this should be the highest 
consideration of all) through the superior quality of the cookery, which is un- 
deniably rendered more wholesome and nutritious under this slower, gradual and 
thorough process. It must tend largely to obviate or to mitigate the horrors of 
dyspepsia. 

Its compactness and portability, making it available for travel, and just the 
thing to carry with one to summer resorts, or for permament use in camps, and 
frontier cabins (where my own is now, and of invaluable service). 

Such a combination of advantages over any cook stoves or ranges, over kerosene 
stoves, or even gas stoves, ought to give the Aladdin Oven a preference over all, 
and bring it into general use among all classes ; but even more universally among 
the poor than the rich. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 205 

The inventor disclaims the ability or desire to frt^ anything in this oven. For 
my part, I confess to being fond of a fry. And by some management one can get 
lip a pretty good substitute for it, in the oven. 

In its present form there is no special arrangement of utensils for hot water. 
But some water can readily be heated on the top of the oven, whilst cooking is 
going on inside, by setting a vessel, properly fitted, over the vent-pipe. 

Very truly youre, 
(Signed) Edward A. Wild, M. D. 

Late Brig. Gen. U. S. Vols. 

The Storrs School Agricultural Experiment Station. 

W. O. Atwatbb, Director. C. S. Phelps, Yice-Director. C. D. Woods, Chemist. 

MiDDLETOWN, Ct., June, 1890. 
To whom it may concern : 

The Aladdin Oven has been in constant use in my family for the past five 
months, and in that time, with all the cooking that has been done in it, there has 
been no such thing as complete failure with any of the dishes prepared and cooked 
ill it, although these were largely experimental in their proportions and especially in 
time of cooking. At first some miscalculation as to the amount of heat given 
by different lamps gave rise to some uncertainty in time required for cooking. 

Bread baked in this oven acquires a peculiarly agreeable nutty fiavor, such as I 
have never found in bread otherwise baked. Cereals of all kinds, cooked for a long 
time at a low temperature, are much superior in taste to those cooked in the ordinary 
way. Cheaper, and consequently tougher cuts of meat can, by the application of 
low heat for a long time, be cooked so as to become as tender and juicy as the better 
cuts are as ordinarily cooked. Boasts of meat, especially lamb, veal, pork, poultry, 
etc., have their flavor greatly improved by this method of cooking. 

(Signed) Charles D. Woods. 



James C. Botce, 

Attomey-at-Law and Solicitor of Patents, and Counselor in Patent Causes, 91 

Water street, Pittsburgh, Pa. (With Oil Well Supply Co., Limited.) 

Pittsburgh, Pa., May 5, 1890. 
Edward Atkinson, Esq., Boston, Mass. 

Dear Sir : — Replying to your letter of April 22, I would say that we have been 

using your Aladdin Oven for several months. Too much cannot be said in its praise. 

It does its work to perfection, and everything cooked in it is tenderer and more finely 



206 THE SCIENCE OF NUTEITION. 

flavored than anything I ever tasted before. We nse it with natural gas. The con- 
sumption of gas is yery trivial. At the rates charged for natural gas, the closest 
calculation that I can make shows that it does not cost over Ave cents per month for 
cooking for a family of five persons. It uses about three feet an hour, or about ten 
feet a day, say three hundred feet a month. 

Much as we have liked it heretofore, it will be still more valuable during the 
summer months, as the heat is concentrated around the oven, and is not radiated 
through the room. It will, therefore, avoid all the discomforts of cooking in the 
summer time. 

I shall be happy at any time to have you refer to me, and will cheerfully show 

the operation of the oven to any one who will visit my house at the comer of Fifth 

avenue and Halket street. 

Yours truly, 
(Signed) James C. Boycb. 



New England Kitchen, 142 Pleasant street, 

Boston, July 16, 1890. 
Mr. Edward Atkinson. 

Dear Sir : — For the past six months we have had in constant use in the New 
England Kitchen, three Aladdin Ovens of the largest size. In them we have made 
daily from fifty to seventy-five quarts of beef broth aud twenty quarts of pea soup. 
We did not settle on your oven for this purpose until we had thoroughly tested it 
and all other utensils that seemed likely to meet our requirements, which were that 
the broth should be invariable in quality from day to day, and that as large a 
quantity as possible of a fine fiavor should be yielded by a given weight of meat, 
and that also with a small outlay for labor and fuel. Your oven meets these re- 
quirements exactly. The cost of fuel for making twenty-five quarts is five cents, 
and no care is needed between preparing the meat and straining the broth when done. 

We recommend this method most heartily to hospitals, hotels and all institu- 
tions that cook in large quantities. 

Mart Hinman Abel. 



Herbert Hall, Worcester, Mass., Sept. 26, 1889. 
To whom it may concern : 

This is to certify that I have had the Atkinson Oven or Baker in use at my 
house and have quite fully tested its merits. 

Vegetables and meats were cooked in the oven in my dining-room without 
giving off any perceptible odor. 



THE 80IENCB OP NUTRITION. 207 

The cooking was exceedingly well done, without scorching or drying. The 
meats were tender, juicy, and of unusually good flavor. 

Puddings and pies were not only well cooked, but were ripened, so to speak, as, 
it seems to me, they could be by no other process with which I am acquainted. 

The work is accomplished without care or concern and at a merely nominal 
expense. 

Food is not only much more cheaply cooked by this process, its value is greatly 
enhanced. It is more nutritious, and it is more digestible, thus promoting health 
and longevity. 

It is not easy to estimate the full benefit which might be derived from the 
adoption of this cheap, wise and healthy mode of preparing food. 

(Signed) Merrick Behis, M. D. 



23 Arlington street. West Mbdford, Mass., July 23, 1890. 
Edward Atkinson, Esq. 

Dear Sir : — My knowledge of the merits of the Aladdin Oven leaves little doubt 
in my mind that you must have already received such favorable opinions of it from 
high places as to put my lame excuses into the shade. It has occurred to me, how- 
ever, that my evidence as a working mto might have a peculiar value on that ac- 
count. My oven measures ten inches each way inside. With the assistance of a 
little single-wick oil stove for boiling, it does the entire cooking for my family of 
three. Our breakfast, consisting usually of oatmeal porridge, stewed fruit, and 
perhaps fish, or some simple meat stew, is invariably put into the oven before we 
retire for the night, and is always perfectly cooked in the morning. The coffee on 
the top shelf has a fine flavor when treated in this way. The oatmeal, etc., is put 
on the lower shelf and the lamp turned down until the flame is about half size. 
Early on the morning of July 4, we left home on a visit, having first placed the 
usual breakfast in the oven, and put under it a small lamp turned low enough to 
make the oil last. We arrived home at eight o^clock the next morning to find every- 
thing cooked as nicely as usual. And what was more important just then (we being 
hungry after traveling) the food wa§ at just the right temperature to commence 
operations immediately. I could add, if it were necessary, many other occasions 
when we made extraordinary demands upon the oven, never to be* disappointed. 

It is, in my opinion, the only cooking arrangement which has yet been invented 

which does its work with absolute certainty and exactness. 

Very truly vours, 

Wm. p. Perrt. 



208 the science of nutrition. 

Dear Mr. Atkinson : 

I am thoroughly convinced of the jastice of all your claims for the Aladdin 
Oyen^ and yon may use my name with the greatest pleasure on my part. I am 
sorry that I cannot be set down as one who has discarded all other means of cooking 
save this ; but the fact is that the oven remains only an adjunct to the range in my 
household. This is only because I have not yet done sufficient battle with my cook, 
who is conservative by temperament^ illogical by sez^ and unable to see her true 
interests by race. But I felt last summer that I was tastings for the first time, cer- 
tain vegetables long familiar by name. , 

Very truly yours, 

Elizabeth Fairghild. 



66 Marlboro St., Boston, Jan. 12, 1891. 
Mr. Edward Atkinson. 

My Dear Sir : — I had your Aladdin Oven in use in a farmhouse in the White 
Mountains during last summer^ as an annex to the customary wood cooking stove. 

I found the Aladdin Oven an ideal one for — First, economy in fuel ; second, 
for dispensing with the intenfie heat of a cooking stove ; third, for the saving of 
labor in watching the process of cooking, — thus, beans and oatmeal may be cooked 
all right with no attention from the cook ; fourth, and to me most striking and 
important of all, for producing by its slow process of cooking a better flavor. This 
remark is applicable to soups, fish, corn and other meals, rice and bread puddings 
and fruits. 

I shall be glad another summer to make further experiments; not only a pliant 
and receptive disposition, but time is needed to evolve the full capabilities of the 
Aladdin Oven. 

Tou are at liberty to use my name as one interested in any experiment which 

may contribute to the simplicity, economy and nutritive value of the home-table to 

the family. I am sincerely, 

Emm^y Talbot. 

106 Eammond St., Chicago, Jan. 12, 1891. 

Dear Mr. Atkinson : — It affords me great pleasure to answer your letter of the 
5th, because I aii» able to bear testimony to the value of the Aladdin Oven, and 
especially because Mrs. Trumbull desires me to add her testimony to mine, and 
indeed hers is the most important. 

She thinks that you will be classed among the great abolitionists in the domain 
of domestic economy ; that, as the abolitionist of cook-stove slavery, you will be 
famous as Elias Howe, the abolitionist of needle slavery ; and in due time, she 



THB SCIEKCE OF NUTRITION. 209 

hopes that there will arise in Boston or thereabouts an abolitionist of wash-tab 
slavery to complete the triumvirate. 

It is only fair to say that Mrs. Trumbull was for a long time sceptical as to the 
value of the oven ; for the reason^ I suppose, that it was so easy, sinl^le and cheap. 
For several weeks it was neglected under the pretext that we had no proper lamp 
for it, and that some day, when down in the city, she would buy the exact lamp 
required, and give the oven a fair trial. Your.address to the doctors excited her 
curiosity, and she determined to test the oven by the use of an old " Daylight " 
lamp, which we found among the rubbish In the cellar. The result was a great 
triumph for Aladdin. The cooking was perfect, and the fuel cost scarcely 
anything, while the ease and comfort of the cook gave a calm, benign, religious 
tone to the temper, unattainable under the cook-stove reign. 

You are at perfect liberty to use my name and testimony in any way you please, 
and my wife says, '* Tell Mr. Atkinson he may use my name also ; " therefore, I 
will sign this letter with both our names. 

Most truly yours, 

M. M. Trumbull and Frances Trumbull. 
To Hon. Edward Atkinson, Boston, Mass. 



ToPEKA, Kan., Feb. 4, 1891. 
Mr. Edward Atkinson, Boston, Mass. 

Dear Sir : — Your favor of the 16th ult. duly at hand. We can say that we are 

well pleased with your oven and consider it the best thing we know of for our use. 

We keep it in our sampling-room attached to the office, whe^je we can bake a batch 

of bread at any time. We made one change, viz., getting a larger lamp so that we 

bake the bread in the time of an ordinary stove. The writer has experimented with 

making bread as you suggest, raising three hours, and baking three hours with the 

small lamp, taking it home where we like it better than the other way of making 

bread ; although it is not so fine-grained, perhaps the fault of the baker. Have 

also tried a beef roast with the small lamp, and a better cooked or jucier and 

tenderer roast never came on our table. We intend having one of the ovens in our 

kitchen before hot weather comes. 

Yours truly, 

Crosby Milling Co. 

T. R. E. Kidder. 

You can use this for publication if you wish, as we state only facts. 



210 THE 3CIEKGB OF NUTRITION. 

Columbus, Georgia, June 19, 1891. 
Mr. Edward Atkinson. 

Dear Sir : — The Aladdin Oven has been in daily use in my family for about two 
months, and ^1 the various kinds of meats and vegetables in the market have been 
cooked. The results have been so highly satisfactory that every member of my 
family joins in insisting on everything heinc cooked in it. The improved flavor 
given to food by this slow process is very manifest. 

For meats of all kinds, it is unequaled. That verdict has -been unanimous by 
every one of the numerous persons who have tested it; meats, which from an ordinary 
oven would be tough and undesirable, from the Aladdin are always tender. Southern 
mutton, usually as tough as dried beef, becomes tender as veal. In one instance, to 
test this feature, my wife bought a cut of neck beef, which the butcher said could 
not be eaten, and protested against the purchase; but after cooking, it was tender 
as chicken, and would have been pronounced first-class roast beef elsewhere. I 
believe that any kind of meat, not allied to gristle or leather to start with, will 
come out of this oven tender. Have never yet found any portion of any meat 
cooked, not thoroughly tender and of good flavor. No one will believe what a 
change it makes until convinced by actual trial. Another feature is, that while in 
an ordinary oven there is considerable loss of weight in meat in cooking, in this one 
there is very little loss, and almost as much weight comes out as went in. With the 
various kinds of vegetables cooked, my family agree that all, except Irish potatoes, 
are better from the Aladdin, and some are very much better. A great variety have 
been repeatedly tried, as every day the oven has been filled with meat and vegetables 
for nine persons. Cooked in closed vessels the loss in weight or natural flavor is 
small, and vegetables come from the oven with natural taste remaining and in the 
most desirable conditjipn. 

Cost of oil for heat is very small and much less than fuel for a stove. We like 

the oven so well, I am building a special small room especially for it, and would not 

dispense with its use under any consideration. Any one who will try will have a 

like experience. No previous instruction in use is necessary — simply prepare the 

food, put it in the oven over the lighted lamp, and the oven itself will do the rest — 

requiring almost no attention. Time will demonstrate the very great value of this 

system of cooking. It has passed the theoretical stage. Trial demonstrates to any 

one the results. 

Yours truly, 

John Hill. 



 THE SCIBKCE OF NUTRITION. 211 

FROM A WESTERN LADY. 

Deab Mb. Atkinson : 

I doubt not you are frequently met with the objection^ that servants are not 
willing to use the Aladdin Oven, and my own experience has been that any attempt 
to reduce labor or waste is met by an amount of prejudice and obstinacy which is 
extremely annoying, and which is submitted to by intelligent housekeepers who 
would not show a similar subserviency Under any other circumstances ; but a 
moderate amount of superintendence and explanation combined with the successful 
results which never fail, will soon convince the most obdurate. A Canadian French 
woman, who had followed the business of cooking for more than thirty years and 
who was thoroughly steeped in the platitude that *^old ways were good enough for 
her/* affords an illustration of what can be done by the argument of facts. More 
than the ordinary amount of insistance was necessary on my part to compel the use 
of the oven. But she yielded sooner then give up her place, which was made the 
alternative. Before the end of a week, she would not willingly have gone back to 
the range. Before the month was out, a friend having lost her codk and having 
a case of sickness in her family, I desired Marie to go to her, promising her a good 
place and where she would meet with every consideration she ought to expect — 
especially as my family was leaving for the summer home and I could not keep her 
much longer and she could remain with Mrs. S. indefinitely. The transfer was 
made and all went well for forty-eight hours, when my friend was surprised to learn 
that Marie wished to leave — her only explanation being — '^I have decided not to 
cook any longer over a hot range.'* Expostulation was in vain — her only reply was — 
*' People must get them kind of ovens if they want to keep cooks — These ranges 
they can't stand in summer*^ — ^and so she left. 

With regard to the incident of the cook, I am only too glad to furnish any proof 
that no obstacle need exist among servants, against using the oven, if mistresses are 
willing to once set them on the right track — to look after the business of their 
households, as a man looks after the business of his ofSce. 



Beookline, June 16, 1891. 
Edward Atkinson, Esq. 

Dear Sir : — I am very glad to be able to testify in favor of the Aladdin Oven. 
The cook likes it, as it simplifies work in the kitchen and the kitchen itself is kept 
comparatively cool in this hot weather. The family likes it on account of the 



212 THE 80IBNCB OF NUTRITION. ' 

great excellence of the food. We never think of having our meat or bread cooked 
in any other way. 

^ Both of my children formerly ate meat, beef and mutton with reluctance, had 
to be urged, and only a little could be given them. Since using the oven they have 
taken a great fancy to meat and seem disposed to make the entire meal of it. This 
alone is sufficient justification for the oven. 

So far as we have tried it I am able to endorse all your own encomiums. In 
fact, we have frequently put an old fowl into the oven and turned him into a spring 
chicken. 

You are very welcome to make use of my name if you wish. 

Very truly yours, 

TucKBR Daland. 



Mrs. Edward Atkinson sends us her verdict in the following terms: 

Edward Atkinson. 

You ask for my opinion of the Aladdin Oven. I think too much cannot be 
said in its praise. It has been an immense comfort and convenience ever since its 
introduction into our kitchen more than three years ago, and it has lightened the ' 
burden of housekeeping to an almost incredible extent. It really is as if a magician 
waved his wand, when a Thanksgiving dinner for twenty-four persons can be cooked 
with but a feather's weight of the care and trouble necessary in the use of the 
range or cooking stove. 

Yet the idea of quickness associated with the feats of a magician must be dis- 
carded in the use of the Aladdin Oven. For although frying may be imitated in 
this oven with comparative speed, slowness in cooking is the grand desideratum — 

and also the great merit of the oven. 

Mary C. Atkinson. 
Brookline, Jan, 13, 1891. 

Finally, the question may be asked, What do the cooks say about this appara- 
tus ? Those who are intelligent and not opinionated are glad to adopt this oven for 
many reasons : it saves a large part of the work and renders it wholly unnecessary 
to stand over a hot stove while attending to the preparation of food. The better 
way will be for the stenographer to whom this statement is being dictated to get 
from the cook, who for over two years has prepared a mid-day meal for the employees, 
numbering over twenty, in an office in Boston, at an average cost of not exceeding 
twenty cents a day for a substantial and excellent meal, a statement of her experi- 



THE SCIENCE 01 NUTRITION. 213 

ence in her own words without any change or variation by the writer. I gave her 
a few verbal instractions only. Her statement is as follows : 

"When I first undertook to cook in this way I knew nothing about the method, 
and had never even used a kerosene stove of any kind whatever. But I thought if 
any one could succeed, I xjould, so I was not afraid to try. I have liked the ovens 
from the beginning, finding my work easier after the first preparation, nearly one- 
half the time of the work being saved by not having to watch and tend it ; and I 
also find the saving of heat and the necessary work connected with a common stove 
is very great. I have never had the slightest failure or waste in the cooking of the 
food from the time I first undertook it. I can do everything except fry, and I can 
imitate a fry or a broil very nicely. With several ovens, an outside supply of hot 
water, and a three-holed i^on table for the making of sauces, gravies, tea and coffee, 
etc., with one assistant I could do the cooking for one hundred people. I use one 
of the smaller ovens at my home, where I do the cooking for my own family of 
three, at night after I return home from my day's work.'* 

It should be observed that the room in which this woman does her work is on 
the middle floor of a large oflSce building. It was intended to be let for an office ; 
it has no chimney-flue in it. It is ventilated by the outer windows and by a transom 
window over the door into the hallway. The adjoining room is used us a dining- 
room. The landlord permitted the use of this office for a kitchen on condition that 
the work should be stopped at a day's notice if there were any serious complaint. 
There has been none of any moment, although in the first experiments the fact 
could be detected that cooking was going on somewhere in the building, by a little 
odor. For the last year or more there has been no ^suspicion attached to the room; 
and a new tenant who occupied the room next to the dining-room, neit but one to 
this kitchen, did not find out for three weeks that there was any cooking going 
on near him. 



AFFAIRS OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 

[Evening Post, New York, September 21, 1891.] 

An intelligent woman who has given the Aladdin Oven a thorough trial, says 
of it : ■* I confess it is almost a disadvantage that those who know this oven by 
actual use are able to claim so much for it, for it sounds like magic, as the night 
cookii::g of soup^ etc., and makes persons unacquainted with it incredulous of every- 
thing said concerning it, but I think I shall not claim too much if I give a list of the 
advantages which I have found in six months' use of it, beginning with the lesser 
benefits and going on to the greater: 



214 THB 80IBNCB OF NUTRITION. 

"(1.) Economy of fuel, saying seven ty-fiye per cent. 

"(2.) Economy of cooking utensils, saving ninety-five per cent. 

'^(3.) Economy of dish and glass towels, as they cannot be scorched and burned 
np handling red-hot vessels. 

'^(4.) Economy in annoyance and mortification in finding the house full of 
odors, and subsequent waste of flavor in dishes on the table. 

'^(5.) Economy in labor, saviog fifty per cent, to the cook. 

''(6. ) Economy in time, saving fifty per cent, to the cook. No attention required. 

^'(7.) Economy in force, saving exhaustion from overheating, as there is no 
radiation of heat as from a range. 

'^(8.) Economy of skill, since a poor cook is not obliged to use skill in regu- 
lating the heat. 

'^ (9) Economy of food spoiled by cooking, saving 100 per cent., and dishes 
wholly unlike may be cooked at the same time, and no flavor is imparted from one 
to the other. 

^'(10.) Economy in marketing, as inferior pieces of meat are rendered palatable 
and attractive by this method. 

'^(11.) Economy in conserving the nutritive qualities of food material in the 
highest degree known." 

In the face of such evidence as this, it is wonderful that any housewife should 
hesitate about adopting an invention more necessary to a well-conducted household 
than a clothes- wringer, a carpet-sweeper, or a sewing machine. 



THE ALADDIN OVEN 

AT THE TUSKEGEE, ALA., NORMAL AND INDUSTRIAL INSTITUTE. 



Several months since Principal Booker T. Washington of the Tuskegee (colored) 
Institute called to consult me upon the right method of improving the nutrition of the six 
hundred or more students in that Institute, referring to tlie tough and rather poor con- 
dition of the ordinary heei and mutton of the South, and the strong tendency to depend 
mainly upon bacon and hominy. His idea had been to set up a battery of Aladdin Ovens, 
which I should have been very glad to sell him but which I could not afford to give and 
which I told him he could not afford to buy. I advised him to construct one or more 
ovens of pine plank, thickly plastered with ordinary lime mortar on the inside ; to place 
them either on a stone, earth or brick floor, so that in the very remote contingency of tlie 
wood being slowly carbonized, or being set on fire by accident, no harm could come and 
no injury would be done except to the oven. He acted upon this suggestion ; and it is 
with great satisfaction that I am enabled to give the account of his success, which has been 
sent me by the Rev. R. C Bedford, of Rockton, 111., one of the trustees, together with 
the reports of one of the instructors and his assistant It may be remembered that whilr 
some of the trustees, Mr. B. included, are white men, the whole corps of instructors and 
all the pupils are of the colored race. In this application of economic principles to the 
subsistence of a large number of mainly adult persons congregated together, the colored 
man is in advance of the white man. 



Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute, 
Mr. Edward Atkinson. Tuskegee, Ala., March 7, 1895. 

Dear Sir : — At Mr. Washington's request I send you the enclosed article on the 
*^ Aladdin Oven." I have taken pains with this, and it has been a great pleasure to me. 
The oven is certainly a wonder. Pork baked in it seems like a different meat. The 
fat is like marrow. We had some for dinner to-day. I hope you can make some use of 
this. We have tried to meet your wants ; but if we have failed, if you will indicate it, 
we will try again. Yours, (Signed) R. C. Bedford. 



U. 



mo 
iiZ 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 217 



REPORT ON THE ALADDIN OVEN. 

About a year and a half ago, while Mr. Washington was in Boston, making inquiries in 
regard to the best and most economical way of cooking, especially for large numbers of peo- 
ple, a friend suggested that he call on Mr. Edward Atkinson. Mr. Atkinson became inter- 
ested, and advised a trial of his " Aladdin Oven." He freely gave the school the privilege of 
making it, and furnished plans for a trial oven. The matter was placed in charge of 
Prof. R. H. Hamilton ; and he had a small oven made for one lamp, as shown in Figures 
1 and la. This oven is twenty-six inches long by seventeen inches wide, and sixteen 
inches high. It is made of well-seasoned hard-pine, one and three-fourths inches thick, 
covered inside with wire lathing, on furring strips of iron, one-fourth inch in diameter, on 
which is a coat of lime mortar, one-half inch thick. The table A is made of iron, one- 
fourth inch by one inch, and covered at a and b with galvanized iron. A layer of mortar 
(c), one-half inch thick, all around the bottom of the oven, serves to protect the wood from 
the heat 

Mr. Hamilton took this oven into his kitchen^ and there put it to a practical test for 
more than a year. He says : ^^ My experience with the oven is satisfactory in every way. 
I cook in it all my meats. I find it especially adapted to fish, baked beans, our Southern 
peas, possum and sweet potatoes, and rice pudding. It is a great labor-saver. Articles 
require no attention from the time they are put in till ready to take out, unless it is some- 
thing that you wish to brown, when, a little while before taking out, the cover is removed 
from the vessel and a beautiful brown is given to whatever may be in it There is no 
perceptible heat or odor. It is small, and can stand in a comer out of the way. The 
toughest meat is made tender, juicy and palatable. Anything cooked on an ordinary stove 
can be cooked in this oven. A one- lamp oven can be run twelve hours on a quart of 
kerosene oil." Mrs. Hamilton says : " I have baked bread, biscuit and pies in it 1 
frequently make tea in it, heat dish-water, and, at night, find it a quick way to warm the 
baby's milk or heat a little water." 

Encouraged by Mr. Hamilton's experience, an oven with two lamps, as shown in Figs. 
2, 2a and 2b, was made for the teachers' kitchen. This has been in use for six months. 
It is made the same as Fig. 1, except that the frame is made of wood instead of iron. The 
chain (d) is used to support the door (e) as a shelf ; (z) represents the bar for closing the 
door. The oven is three feet and three inches long, one foot and five inches wide, and 
one foot and five inches deep. 

Mr. Charles Diggs, steward in charge of the Teachers' Home, says : " I have 
given the oven a thorough trial with most excellent results. I can cook one hundred 
pounds of meat at a time with the use of two quarts of oil. With this oven I have no 






218 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



odor or heat, no burning of the hands by handling of the vessels, or bending oyer a hot 
stove for basting purposes. Both teachers and guests are delighted with all the food 
cooked in the Aladdin Oven." 

Mrs. J. L. Kaine, of Milwaukee, Wis., a lady of long experience in cooking, and who 
has given much attention to the dietary of this school and of many public institutions, says 
of it : '^ I very heartily endorse all that can be said in favor of the Aladdin Oven, planned 
by Mr. Atkinson for the Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute. The two in use have 
been under my observation for four months. In the students* kitchen a large supply of 



Ti 



ris 2 5 



ri5 2 b 






beef is cooked daily, and comes from the oven as deliciously tender as spring chicken, and 
with all its flavor preserved. I consider it indispensable where meats are to be cooked in 
large bulk and cannot be selected. The toughest parts, cooked long enough, are invariably 
tender. The oven once tried will not be abandoned. It recommends itself." 

But the greatest and most marked experience is with the five-lamp oven, shown in 
Figs. 3, 3a, 3b, and 3c. It is ^ye feet and six inches by one foot and six inches, by one 
foot and eight inches. The accompanying sectional drawings, Figs. 3a and 3b, explain 
its construction. It is made of hard pine as described in Fig. 1. C)n the wood are one- 
fourth inch furring iron rods (f) about three inches apart. Wire lathing (q) is nailed on 
these, and a coat of mortar (h) one-half inch thick placed on the lath. The platform (m) 






8CIBNGB OP NDTRITION. 



on which the lamps rest, and the top of the table (d) are made of galvanized-iron, 
strengthened by wooden stripg (g), one inch by three inches. The Tessels in which the 
food is cooked rest on a grate (k) of galvanized-iron, rtused one inch from the top of the 




table. This grate is pnnched with half-Inch holes, about four inches apart. Over each 
lamp is a hole (p) two inches in diameter. 

The piece (r) on Fig. S is dovetailed into the door, to prevent warping. Drawing 
(a) of Fig, 3 shows method of rebating side-piece for door j (w) of Fig. 3 ia a piece six 
inches wide between the two doors. The doors are hung on the side for convenience. 
I'his is used in the studentfi' kitchen. It has a capacity of two hundred and fifty pounds 



THE SCIKNCE OF NUTRITION. 



of meat at a baking, or eDOUgh for one thonsand people. This can be cooked with about 
five quarts of oil. 

Dock Mitchell, cook in the stndenta' kitchen, an old-time negro, and deeply prejudiced 
against new methods, bu become thoronghly converted to the Aladdin Oven. He has 
used the oven six months, and this morning gave me the following statement: " Last night 
I weigbed out one bundred and fifty pounds of beef for the students' breakfast, about sii 
bundred and fifty of them. I put it into three veasels, seasoned properly, and added about 



. sa 



■■'3 Jc 




one and one-half gallons of water to each. I covered the vessels tightly, and about eight 
o'clock put them in the oven. I started the fire. No. 2 Rochester lamps, turning them up 
to a moderate height; and I then went home. This morning at four o'clock the meat was 
perfectly cooked. In the dishes were nearly six gallons of very strong liquid, almost equal 
to beef-tea. To this I added fivegallons of water, a little flour with a dust of burned 
sugar, and I bnd eleven gallons of most beautiful French gravy. This, with the meat, 
coru-bread and coffee, furnished a breakfast that was greatly enjoyed by the students, and 
not a scrap of it was wasted. When I came this morning the outside of the oven was 
scarcely warm, and there was no odor from the meat in the room. The five lamps had 



t 



222 THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 

used a little oyer one gallon of oil." The contrast between this and the amount of wood, 
heat, smell and labor bj the old method, is most striking. 

We are contemplating a still larger oven with side doors, as shown in -Fig. 3, instead 
of in the end, or a shorter oven with two rows of lamps and door in the end. Instead of 
supplying each family on the school-grounds, it is thought that a large central oven, in 
which all could cook their food on a co-operative plan, might be of advantage. 

Beans, peas, sweet potatoes, onions and rice are the only vegetables thus far cooked 
in the oven. They are all greatly improved in flavor. 

The oven can be made exceedingly plain and inexpensive, or the frame and oven can 
be ornamented to any degree at a corresponding increase of expense. As made here, very 
plain, the one-lamp < oven costs about $5.00 ; the two-lamp, $8.00 ; and the five-lamp, 
$18.00. This is aside from the lamps. We have thus far used the No. 2 Rochester 
lamp, costing about $1.50 each at wholesale. 

The drawings and descriptions illustrating this article were prepared by Prof. Robert 
R« Taylor, Instructor in Architectural and Mechanical Drawing in the Tuskegee, Ala., 
Normal and Industrial Institute. 



REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING REPORT. 

At the time when I sent this report to the printer, together with the plans and meth- 
ods of making an oven of wood plastered inside, subject tO tll6 positive warn- 
ing: tliat such an oven must never be used except on a floor and 
in a place where in the remote contingency of the wood becom- 
ingr slowly carbonized and then igrniting^ no harm can come ex** 

cept to the OVen^ I did not anticipate the possibility of preparing an oven in any 
other way at so low a cost or of so effective kind ; it is probably true that there may not 
be any other method which can be adopted at so very low a cost. But a recent invention 
to which my attention has been called within the last three months is now being applied 
to the construction of ovens on the Aladdin principle which may make it possible to con- 
struct large ovens at a very low cost, and to put the Standard Aladdin Oven on sale at a 
much lower price than any yet offered. How long this will take and when this can be ac- 
complished is uncertain, but the matter has been taken up on a commercial scale by strong 
parties. 

In the mean time I think it judicious to call the attention of all persons who are in- 
terested in providing food of a wholesome and nutritious kind for the inmates of asylums, 
reformatories and the like, to the progress which has been made at Tuskegee on these lines. 



THE SCIENCE OP KUTRITION, 221 

The cost of such an oven is trifling, and it is in the power of the managers of siicli estab- 
lishmenU to put such ovens upon brick floors under conditions which will give absolute 
assurance of safety. It may therefore happen that experimental work of this kind will be 
undertaken, ending perhaps in the establishment of large ovens made on the methoils which 
are now being applied under my direction. 

There are very many places far distant from centres of population where ovens of the 
kind described in the Tuskegee Institute would be of great service — notably in lumber 
camps and in places where large numbers of workmen are gathered in the construction of 
heavy works where they may not long remain, and where such ovens could be built upon 
the ground protected only by a shed, for the preparation of wholesome food of different 
kinds for laborers who need it most 

It may be suggested that while the better kind of oil lamps corresponding to the 
Bradley & Hubbard type are more easily cared for and less liable to smoke, yet in many 
places the common kerosene stove lamps fitted with metallic chimneys will serve the pur- 
pose, and for carriage to distant places would be safer. They may be adjusted by experi- 
ence in the number of lamps according to the size of the oven. 

Edwakd Atkinson. 
Boston, April 26, 1895. 



ADDITIONAL TESTIMONIALS. 



.J 



[From a yery yoIuminouB correspondence I am permitted to make the following selections hy the 
leronsent of the writers, most of whose names are subsequently given.] 

Brookline, Mass. 

After a year's trial of my Aladdin I would not give it up for any other mode of cook- 
ing, especially for the slow, long cooking of meats, fowls and grains. It is superior in 
canning fruit, and saves half the labor — particularly in making jams ; it does all the work 
without the constant stirring over a hot stove which was so laborious. 

Bedford, N. Y. 

I recommend to all housekeepers who have a range or stove which they must continue 
U) use, to get an Aladdin Oven, simply for cooking soups and preserving fruit. It wil? 
pay for itself a dozen times in those two things alone. Tlie saving of time and trouble 
in watching a soup-kettle on the stove and standing over and stirring preserves is tremen- 
dous ; and the certainty of the result, with no danger of scorching or over-fast boiling, 
will make both mistress and cook bless the Aladdin Oven. 

Add to this the possibility of using tough meats and of cooking old-fashioned dishes 
which used to be done in brick ovens, and the Aladdin Oven becomes invaluable merely as 
a supplement to the ordinary stove. 

Woodstock, Conn. 

As a labor saving and time-saving invention, the Aladdin Oven is the greatest success. 
The reason for failures should be sought in the cook, not in the oven. The more intelli* 
gfut tlie cook the more ready she is to use the oven. I knew one uneducated Swedish 
cook whose prejudice against it was so strong that she insisted even after the oven had 
been removed to a rear piazza that the heat of the lamp made her head ache. Her 
French successor was pleased to have the oven restored to its place in the kitchen. 

The reason the ovens do not establish themselves more rapidly is because the range, 
which will in time be replaced by other contrivances, is still needed for heating and laun- 
dry purposes. 

If the good work done with and by the Aladdin Oven " must be left to the same fate 
that befell Count Rumford's efforts," it means that we shall take many steps backward, 
and the emancipation of the American woman will be unfortunately and unnecessarily 
postponed. 



thk science of nutrition. 225 

Charlestown, West Va. 

The Aladdin Oven is a Grod-fiend to me. I am a delicate woman, and the cooking 
stove was killing me. Good servants are hard to get, and I don't want a bad one. My 
bread and meats brown delightfully. My husband lights the lamp when he first goes out 
in the morning, and I can have breakfast as soon as I could in the cooking -stove. We 
have oatmeal, coffee, hot bread, some meat, omelet (which is exceedingly delicate), potatoes 
or tomatoes ; some of these nearly every morning, with the first three mentioned every 
morning. 

Brookline, Mass. 

I am glad to say anything that I can in favor of the oven. My cook wants it at all 
times, and we always bring it to the sea-shore with us. She thinks cooks are so short- 
sighted who will not take the trouble to learn how to use it. She says they might save so 
much labor. We use a range also, and have not done nearly all we can with the oven ; 
but we would not be without it for anything. There ought to be an Aladdin Oven in 
every house in the country. It is so nice to keep things hot in at a dinner when several 
courses have to be served. 

New York City. 

I have only to remark that I consider it beyond all question the most perfect cook- 
ing oven that man has yet conceived. 

FROM A PHYSICIAN OF DUBUQUE, lA. 

We have banished our cooking-stove from the kitchen — warm it by a steam radiator, 
and have a gas-stove on which a small part of the cooking is done and the flat-irons heated. 

The stove (Aladdin) is apparently as good as when purchased, no repairs having been 
needed. Fully two-thirds of all our cooking is done with it, at a cost of about ten cents 
per week. 

An old stove-cover with an opening in its centre is supported on two iron brackets 
screwed to the end of our ice-box, on which a kettle for heating water is used for making 
soup, etc., by a common lamp set beneath it. It is kept burning all night, set low as to 
merely simmer the water when making soups. A wooden tobacco-bucket is inverted over 
the pot to prevent radiation of heat. 

By these means the saving of fuel is very great, keeping the kitchen free from smoke 
and dust, and making the work easy for the cook. 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

I cannot permit another day to pass without expressing to you my gratitude for the 
valuable service which the Aladdin Oven rendered me this summer. Having experimented 



226 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRlXlON. 

in a most satisfactory manner with the oven for some time, I thought I had become fully 
acquainted with its merits, but until I was left alone this summer to do very unexpected 
work I had no real idea of what a relief the oven could be. It was only then that the 
whole value of your work was realized. I knew then what a blessing all your efforts had 
been. I really felt then the completeness of the oven, for without it I should have been 
lost indeed iij an overwhelming sea of troubles. If the ^omen of the South could only 
be made to understand the relief that the oven could bring to them, I would be so glad. 
I wish there was some way to show them the road to better things through the aid of your 
incomparable invention. 

London, England. 

We are gorry our verdict upon your stove is not more favorable. We tried it in our 
factory without success ; we then sent it to the house of the manager of our works for 
domestic test, but with no better result. 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

We find the Aladdin Oven the most efficient device that we have ever used for the 
roasting of meats of any sort ; for the cooking of bread or cake and for the perfect cook- 
ing of all kinds of fruit, particularly apples ; for the baking of beans and brown bread 
equal to the old-fashioned New England brick oven. We are utterly surprised tliat any 
family should be without an Aladdin Oven, as our experience has demonstrated that the 
saving alone in the shrinkage of food in a year is several times the cost of the oven ; that 
the saving in fuel is probably more than the cost of the oven (at any rate a very large per- 
centage on the investment) ; that the saving in doctors' bills can only be imagined and not 
estimated ; that the tickling of the palate is beyond description. 

Dade County, Fla. 

I have often felt that I should like to express my gratitude to yon for the invention 
of the Aladdin Oven. For about ten years we had read all the reports of your progress 
towards its completion, realizing that it was just what we wanted, and determined to get 
one as soon as they were perfected. It has quite filled our expectations. One great use I 
make of it is in entertaining. I can prepare a dinner before time, arranging the food 
(from a tall jug of soup to the pot of black coffee) on the shelves inside, with the plates, 
platters, etc., warming on the table around the lamp. Then I can make a toilet and re- 
ceive my guests with the cheering thought that the dinner will be there when we are ready 
for it without any further thought I kept hot on its shelves toast and chocolate for sev- 
enty-five guests during the serving of an afternoon " tea," the tea being made over a small 
blaze in the midst of the guests, and the other refreshments cold. 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 227 

We have our dinner at night ; and I prepare all the food just after a late breakfast, 
and start the lamp at a low blaze, putting in the foods needing longest cooking early, add- 
ing the others later. I can then devote the day to other occupations. This to " the lady 
who does her own work " is a great desideratum, 

Mattapoisett, Mass. 

I thought the bread baked in it most delicious, reminding me exactly of that bread 
baked in an old-fashioned brick oven when I was a child. 

Gloucester City, N. J. 

I would have an Aladdin Oven in my house if it never could be used for any other 
purpose than for cooking apples or other fruit. I would have one if it never could be 
used for any other purpose than for cooking brown bread. I would have one if it could not 
be used for any other purpose than for cooking beans. I would have one even if it could 
not be used for aiiy other purpose than for cooking meat, if I couldn't eat the meat and 
could only use the gravy. And I have come to the conclusion that your oven would sell 
better if it was made more ornamental and sold only to the rich for $75 each. 

Bedford, N. Y. 

Boston brown bread baked in the old-fashioned Rhode Island baking iron bowls is in 
the Aladdin done to perfection, better than in any way except the heated brick oven of old 
times. 

GUNTERSVILLE, AlA. 

My verdict is this : the Aladdin Oven is a perfect success, and is a sure cure for 
dyspepsia. I wish I could tell all dyspeptics that. 

Oakland, Cal. 

We got the Aladdin Oven for purposes of convenience and to save labor, rather than 
for e<-onoraical reasons. We have found it perfectly satisfactory in these respects. The 
economical side we have not considered in detail, though it is evident that it is a cheap 
method of cooking. 

Dalton, Ga. 

My Aladdin Oven is a great comfort to me, and I am always glad to tell my friends 
about it A large, meat-eating family would make it pay for itself better than I do ; but 
I find it invaluable, especially in hot weather, when it would be impossible for me to cook 
over a range. 



228 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

The following from a Harvard graduate now beginning life in another city, is of in- 
terest He has a Weaver's Pail Oven, and in a letter (not to myself) he makes the fol- 
lowing report He says he cannot live in a cheap boarding-hoase, and he therefore cooks 
for himself over a gas-jet 

*^ My food for the past week has cost $1.50. Monday I bought a piece of neck with 
two small bones for twelve cents. I tied the meat into a compact lump, poured scalding 
water over it, put it into the cooker, and let it simmer all night just covered with water. 
Tn the morning it was tender, even the gristle, but the color inside was still red. There 
was a bowl full of broth that jellied beautifully when cold. I ate some of the meat 
sliced for dinner Friday, and last night I made a stew. (I forgot to say that I boiled the 
bones all night, and got a cupful of jelly from them.) For a stew I pared and sliced 
three white potatoes and one sweet potato and put them into boiling water, with salt and half a 
cupful of bone jelly and one sliced tomato. When the potatoes were almost done I put in 
a cup of beef jelly and a slice of beef cut fine. It was as good a stew as I ever ate, and 
made two dinners. There is meat enough for at least three dinners more, or six in aH.** 

Orlando, Fla. 

We often make coffee by putting it in a jar with cold water. In an hour it is strotig^ 
dear and of good flavor. 

For meat pies, cook the meat, seasoned, in an earthen dish, covered, until tender, then 
thicken the gravy, cover with a biscuit crust, and cook an hour. 

Wc roast beef perfectly, outside brown and inside rare. Also cook pies well, with 
the under-crust well done. Use perforated plates. 

Elhira, N. Y. 

I consider it invaluable in my family for summer use, and during the hot weather 
have no fire in the house, except on Monday morning for laundry use. In the winter we 
need our cook-stove for heating the house, but then I often use the Aladdin when I want 
to go out in the forenoon. When I come home the dinner is all ready to put on the table, 
and on Sundays I put the meat and vegetables in the oven, and find them ready when I 
come home three hours afterwards. 

The quality of the cooking 13 excellent and is produced with machine-like uniformity. 
From tough round steaks I have made the most delicious stews and hashes that I have 
ever eaten. Everything is improved in flavor, and the effect upon digestion is marked, 
especially with respect to ducks, sausages and other foods which are rich in fat They are 
more digestible and less greasy than when cooked on a range. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 229 

ToPEKA, Kan. 

I consider the Aladdin Oven one of the greatest aids to relieve weary housewives 
from the drudgery of cooking that has heen invented. It is much safer than gasoline,' 
and, if intelligently used, saves time ; the house is not filled with unpleasant odors ; the 
food is much finer flavored and no doubt more healthful. Bread baked in it Ls more like 
that baked in the old " out oven " or " clay ovens " used in Pennsylvania by so many of 
the farmers. I have failed in baking biscuit, and once in cake, but know now my lamp 
was not powerful enough. One Sabbath morning I had the dinner prepared and put in 
the oven to cook before starting to church. My girl came to me and said, ^' What am I 
to do ? My table is arranged and I have nothing to do.*' I told her to watch that the 
lamp did not *^.run up " and to sit down and improve her mind by reading. I have found 
the Aladdin Oven cdl you claim for it. 

Baltimore, Md. 

My servant can go to eleven o'clock church every Sunday if she chooses. She can 
(and does) leave the dinner in the oven and come home to have it ready to serve. This 
makes her envied of all the others and makes our fiat considered a very desirable one to 
live in, and much easier to get servants, which is as much of a question in Baltimore as it 
Ib at the North. 

A correspondent in Colorado after stating that no difiiculties had been met in two 
years' use of the Aladdin Oven, adds that the quality of the cooking has been perfectly 
satisfactory, thoroughly equable and always reliable, not a single failure in the two 
years. 

'^ We have made use of tough meats to a considerable extent, though Colorado beef 
is generally tender. The cheap cuts cooked through the night come out from the oven a 
most savory dish, enriched by all the natural juices and leaving a quantity of appetizing 
gravy in the pan. The preservation of fiavor and juices is very noticeable and has been 
remarked by guests who were not aware that it was Aladdin's work. This effect is 
especially marked in the cooking of ham, fowls and game. We have not remarked any 
special effect upon digestion, as the members of the family have always been blessed with 
digestive organs ample to cope with the food-supply even if cooked in the most primitive 
manner. We suggest as an improvement in bread-making, turning bread over in the 
pans a short time before taking from the oven, thus securing a rich brown crust on the 
entire surface." 



> From my ezperlanee as an underwriter, I regard gasoline or naphtha wholly unfit and dangerous In any 
process of cooking. I should regard gunpowder safer if it coald be used. ■. a. 



230 THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 

FROM A SKILFUL COTTON MANUFACTURER. 

I find that we do well with a variety of lamps — a Mammoth Pittsburgh for quick 
work, the Bradley & Hubbard lamp furnished with the oven for all-day work, and a Trench 
burner with one inch, or even half-inch wick for all-night work, but the oven should be 
hot before putting in the food and putting under the half-inch wick for all-night work. 
Take a common block-tin coffee-pot, a small bag made of cheese-cloth that will hold twice 
as much coffee as it is desired to use ; grind the coffee fine, tie it up in the bag, pour in 
the required amount of cold water, put in the oven. Place sausages on a grill or a meat 
stew in a jar; oatmeal or farina in a double boiler on the bottom of the oven — oven 
previously hot — put the half-inch-wick lamp underneath, and go to bed. In the morning 
get up and find a good breakfast ready. 

We find our food is better — we have not tried to see on how little we could live, but 
how well we could live economically. Our food is better, our roasts lose less in weight, 
our brea<l is always good, and it is a pleasure to cook. 

Among other recognitions from various sources the Aladdin Oven has received an 
award from the Board of Judges of the World's Columbiaur Commission who passed upon 
the exhibits of the late Exposition in Chicago. The award is in the following terms : 

Award : For a cooking apparatus which economizes heat and controls its variations 
to a flegree not hitherto possible in cooking, thus greatly reducing the cost of fuel for do- 
mestic requirements. 

For the application of scientific principles to the preparation of food, especially in the 
direction of utilizing the tougher and cheaper portions of meat and converting them into 
tender, appetizing and nutritious food, thereby materially reducing the cost of nutrition. 

For the practical demonstration of the effect of moderate heat, applied during a con- 
siderable time, upon certain articles of food, in baking or roasting, giving tenderness, and 
preserving or developing the specific flavors, and avoiding disiccation. 

R. Hitchcock, Judge of Awards. 

South Framingham, Mass. 

If it were possible to construct a double oven in which a compartment could be used 
for bread or cake at the same time vegetables or other moist substances were being cooked 
it would be an advantage. 

On the whole we find the oven a source of great comfort, and would not exchange it 
for the best range in use. For getting an unlimited supply of hot water we use a little 
invention now supplied by the gas company, a small coil of copper pipe enclosed in an iron 
case over a cottage burner, the whole placed over the sink and connected with the water 
service. The water is heated continuously as it runs, and the expense is hardly anything. 
In the bath-room we use an " Acme " instantaneous water-heater with good results. 

We trust that the day is not far distant when your most excellent methods of cook- 
ing will become better appreciated by the public at large. 



THE SCIENCE OF NUTRITION. 



231 



In addition to the names given m the oody of the text, I am now permitted to refer 
to the following persons, whose experience in the use of the Oven has in part been sub- 
mitted in the foregoing extracts, many other names being added to those from whose 
reports I have taken the extracts. 



Mrs. Lilla A. Harknie, 
Asa IIorr, M.D., 
Mrs. H. Luptox, 
Mr. Norman Astlet, 
Miss Julia L. Doubleday, 
Mrs. Mart P. Kay, 
Mrs. J. A. Price, 
Mrs. James W. Riely, 
Mr. George S. Spencer, 
Mrs. Alice Davis Armsby, 
Miss Anne C. Wyman, 
Mrs. Annette Pope Edge, 
Mrs. James E. Thacher, 
Mrs. W. T. Wilson, 
Mrs. Charles H. Stearns, 
Mr. Lowndes Taylor, 
Mrs. Delia W. Marble, 
Mrs. M. M. Trumbull, 
Mrs. a. W. Street, 
Mr. William D. Philbrick, 
Mrs. Abbie B. Bastin, 
Mrs. Clara EiRCHHOFFERf 
Mr. George W. Weeks, 
Mr. J. A. Henderson, 
Mr. W. E. Barrows, 
Mrs. Albert L. Butler, 
Mr. F. C. Briggs, 
Mrs. Hattie J. Manley. 
Dr. George II. Clark, 
Mr. Albert B. Williams, 
Mrs. W. M. Cantreel, 
^Ir. Edward Booth, 
Mrs. F. W. Price, 
Mrs. Louisa C. Bacoi^ 
Mr. Andrew WalkeH, 
Mrs. Ida Howard, 
Miss Anna Frazier, 



Brookings, South Dakota. 

1811 Main Street, Dubuque, Iowa. 

Victoria Park, Shipley, Yorkshire, England. 

212 West 183d Street, New York. 

908 T Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. 

Gardner Road, Brookline, Mass. 

Hi^iland, Cal. (Messina P. O.) 

Charlestown, Jefferson Co., West Ya. 

St. Cloud, Minn. 

Millbury, Mass. 

98 Pinckney Street, Boston. 

288 W. Lanvale Street, Baltimore, Md. 

Santa Barbara, Cal. 

Little Bock, Ark. 

Harvard Street, Brookline, Mass. 

West Chester, Pa. 

Bedford, Westchester Co., N. Y. 

614 Lasalle Avenue, Chicago, IlL 

Ormond, Volusia Co., Fla. 

Newton Centre, Mass. 

Auburn Park, Chicago, IlL 

Brandon, Manitoba, Can. 

Clinton, Mass. 

Lemont, Centre Co., Pa. 

1417 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, P^ 

22 Prospect Street, Hartford, Conn. 

Hampton Institute, Hampton, Va. 

8216 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 

W. Walnut Lane, Grermantown, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Jenkintown, Pa. 

Guntersville, Ala. 

1214 Harrison Street, Oakland, Cal. 

Orlando, Fla. 

Mattapoisett, Mass. ' 

30 Farrington Street, London, £. C, England. 

81 Milk Street, Boston, Mass. 

Aurora, III. 



232 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTKITION. 



Mrs. James T. Fields, 

Mrs. Ole Bull, 

Mrs. Harriett £. Hikchliff, 

Mrs. N. W. Lton, 

Miss Eadith DeC. Heath, 

Mr. George £. Price, 

Mrs. B. J. Handy, 

Miss E. Otis Williams, 

Mr. Mark S. W. Jefferson, 

Mrs. E. E. Kellogg, 

Mr. F. B. Knapp, 

Mrs. S. N. Castle, 

Mr. William Stone, 

Mrs. J. Anson Guild, 

Mrs. Charles P. Shaw, 

Mrs. Julia W. Buck, 

Mrs. T. W. Wilmarth, 

Mr. J. S. Wood, 

Dr. Charles P. Worcester, 

Dr. F. W. Patch, 

Mrs. Lucia Fuller, 

Miss Julia. P. Marshall, 

{Svpt. N. r. Ir^rmary), 

Rev. Booker T. AVashington, 

Dr.* Alice Hall Chapman, 

Mrs. a. T. Cole (care Rot. Mr. Cole), 



Boston, Mass. 

Cambridge, Mass. 

Rockford, HI 

Topeka, Kan. 

Jamaica Plain, Mass. 

Charlestown, W. Ya. 

Fall River, Mass. 

Park Avenue, Baltimore, Md. 

Lexington, Mass. 

Battle Creek, MIcIl 

Duxbnry, Mass. 

Honolulu, Sandwich Islands. 

Boston, Mass. 

Brookline, Mass. 

Esmont P. O., Albermarle Co., Ya. 

2822 Arapahoe Street, Denver CoL 

Box 75, Sanders ville, Mass. 

Collin wood, Ohio. 

Waltham, Mass. 

South Framingham, Mass. 

Deerfield, Mass. 

5 Livingstone Place, New York. 

Tuskegee, Ala. 
Eugene, Oregon. 
Saugerties, N. Y. 



1 



CONCLUSION. 



It is impossible for any one who is occupied in the conduct of a large business to give 
that consecutive attention and study to the development even of his own inventions that is 
necessary to their rapid and consistent completion. Neither can one working under sucli 
conditions even do the work of starting the problem and its solution or compiling the data 
of science bearing upon it, in a concise and satisfactory manner. There are many points 
of interest which can only be suggested. 

The writer has been unable to determine the average consumption of coal consumed 
in the stove or range in ratio to the quantity of food cooked. It will, of course, vary 
greatly, and in the common household practice it would be almost impossible to separate 
the fuel consumed in cooking from that consumed in warming the kitchen and in heating 
water for circulation. 

The only approximate data which I have secured have been supplied by Prof. R. A. 
Fessenden, of Allegheny, Pa., who made some comparisons in tlie amount of coal required 
to generate electricity for cooking as compared to the ordinary process. 

The result of his computation gave two and seven-tenths pounds of coal consumed in 
the ordinary process of cooking to each pound of food cooked. My own very rough and 
ready computation in my own household, had led me to estimate the consumption of coal 
for cooking only on an ordinary range at over two pounds of coal to each pound of cooked 
food. 

In the Standard Aladdin Oven forty to sixty pounds of bread, meat and vegetables, 
can be cooked in three charges in the period of eight hours, with two to two and one- half 
pounds of kerosene oil (150®) of the best quality. 

According to the most complete data now attainable in respect to the cost of living in 
the families of working men, the average expenditures, varying by sections, by cities and by 
other qualifying conditions, are within the following range : food material, 45 to 55 ; cloth- 
ing, 15 to 20 ; rent or shelter, 15 to 20. 

In the ordinary processes of cooking at a high heat on the common iron stove or range, 
the waste of food-material and fuel is at least equal to the average amount paid for rent or 
shelter. Aside from this actual waste, a large part of the food consumed is either rendered 
unwholesome or is deprived of a part of its nutritive properties in the common practice of 
cooking. 



234 THK SCIBMCK Olf NIITKITION. 

I have claimed, and I herewith submit the proofs, that by the adoption of the methods 
advocated in this treatise, and by the use of apparatus made consistently with the instruo- 
tions given, at least one-third of the average expenditure fur food can be saved, and this 
lesser quantity will yield more appetizing and better nutrition. I altio claim tliat any 
persons who possess the intelligence to do this may then double the sum now paid for rent 
or shelter, and thereby solve the most difficult eociul problem now pending without any 
aggregate increase in their annual expenditures. 

Had I not devoted all my leisure time for many years to the study of what is known 
as political economy, but which should be called 

Social Science, 

I migtit not have been led to take up this practical application of scientific principle to the 
problem of nutrition. 

Although often contested, the dogma of MalthuB, tliat population tends to gain on the 
means of subsistence, and the theory of rent presented by Richardo, with a statement of 
an alleged law of diminishing returns from laud in ratio to the work put upon it, have ex- 
erted a profound influence upon English thought and upon legislation. 

To my own mind all these pustulates seem te lie wliolly inconsistent with the order of 
nature. In searching for evidence either to sustain or refute them, it became manifest 
that since these theories were presented th<Te has bet-n a constant, gain in the means of 
subsistence in the ratio to population ; no one has yet discovered the potential in produc- 
tion of a single acre of land anywhere and no one has yet been able to measure with any 
accuracy the return from land in ratio to the energy imparted to it by man. 

It has seemed to me that these three propositions rest ujion the error of considering 
laud as of the nature of a mine subject to exhaustion. Modem science has proved that 
laud is a mere instrument for the conversion of certain elements of nutrition from one 
form into another. The supply of energy which can thus be converted is immeasurable. 
The chief elements in the nutrition of the soil are lime, potash and phosphoric acid. The 
developed sources of these elements are practically nnlimite<l. The principal element 
aside from these, of which the supply seemed more doubtful, is nitrojzen. Tlie recent dis- 
covery of tiie source of nitrogen developing in what have loiij; been known as soil- 
renovating plants of the leguminous order, renders it practically certain that tlie bacteria 
which live upon tlicse plants may draw from the atmosphere and convert to the nutrition 
of the plant and then of the soil, a practically unlimited supply of nitrogen disassociated 
by them from the air. 

It follows that if such are the faet* the somewhat baleful concepts of English 
political economy, which have given it the name of a dismal science, are wholly disproved. 



THE SCIENCE OP NUTRITION. 



235 



and all the postulates of this science must be recast upon the conception that while the 
consumption of food is limited ihh sources of supply are unlimited. 

With this series of propositions in view, the solution of the problem of the conversion 
of food material into nutritious food in the process of cooking, has assumed a place in my 
own mind oi which very few persons have as yet any conception. It becomes an integral 
and essential link in the conservation of energy by which mankind lives and moves and 
has its being. 

Lack of time and the heavy cost of resetting type have forbidden the complete re- 
compo5«ition of this somewhat ill-digested treatise. 

Edward Atkinson. 
BrooJdine, Mass.f 1895. 



• • 






• « 



GENERAL INDEX. 



[Beeipefl will be found in a Bpeoiftl index following the general index.] 



PAGB 

Abel, Mn. Maiy Hinman, 73, 120 

director New England Kitchen, 107 

Lomb prize essay winner, 22, 91 

report on Aladdin Oven for family 

cooking, 91-101 

Acroline, how produced, how aroided, 56 

Actual dietary for one day (Mrs. Rich- 



ards), 
Addenda, fourth edition, 
first edition, 



160-152 

52 

108 

116 

112-114 



Additional suggestions, 

Aladdin Kitchen, 

Aladdin Oven, advantages of, 96, 89, 58, 109 

additional suggestions, 115-117 

construction of, 92 

description of, 52-56 

develops flavors, 58 

— ^- economy of, ^ 68, 109 
for family cooking (Mrs. Abel's 



report), 
future manufacture of, 
general directions for use, 
glass, 

how it does its work, 
improvements on, 
latest types, 
maximum heat of. 
Miss Danieirs work with, 
patents on, 
principle of, 
quick work in, 
rules for use (Mrs. Abel), 



91-101 

6 

48-45 

66,57 

68 

62-56 

62-56 

92 

82 

6, 13, 18, 52 

8, 7, 85, 42 

60 

91 



PAGE 

Aladdin Oven, special instructions for use, 40 

standard, 42, 57 

substitute for cook-stove, 110 

time for cooking in, 84 

timetable (Mrs. Sterling), 85 

what it does, 43 

what it is, 41-43 

what is demanded of it, 108 

Alcohol, as fuel in body, 123 

American standard of nutrition, 23, 26 

by classes, 27 

too concentrated (Sir Henry 

Thompson), 30 

Animal food expensive, 139 

Art of cooking (Popular Science Monthly), 11 

57 

6,57 

6 

22, 23, 120, 122 

124 

33 

85,46 

93 

47 

16,17 

51 

32 

60 

46 

47,96 

86, 46, 93, 94 

36 



Asbestos Paper Company, 

paper lagging, 

Atkinson Cooker, 
Atwater, Prof. William O., 

quoted from. 

Bad feeding, cost of. 
Baking bread, 

in Aladdin Oven, 

fish in Aladdin Oven, 

Bean, soy or soja. 

Beef broth (New England Kitchen), 
Billions spent for food, 
Biscuits, to bake. 
Boiling in Aladdin Oven, 
Braising in Aladdin Oven, 
Bread baking, 
kneader. 



* • 






••.« 






2d8 



GENER4L INDKX. 



Bread making, 

prices of, 

raiser, 

with Vienna compressed yeast, 

Broiling in Aladdin Oven, 
Brownina in Aladdin Oyen, 

failures and remedies, 

meat and fish in Aladdin Oyen, 

Cake in Aladdin Oven, 
California pump, storj of. 
Calorie, defined, 

unit of nutrition, 

unit of working capacity, 

Calories needed daily^ 

to the pound (diagram). 

Canning fruit in Aladdin Oren, 

some objections to. 

Carbo-hydrates, 
— use in body, 
compounds. 



PAGE 

36,46 

25 

85, 46, 114 

48 

47 

44 

115, 116 

61 

47,97 

15 

24, 122, 130 

24,122 

24 

ISQ, 148, 145 

144 

100, 101 

106 

28 

123 

129 

84,196 

85, 46, 114 



Carnegie, Andrew, contribution of. 

Case bread-raiser. 

Century Magazine (Atwater's articles), 

120,122 

Chafing dish cooking, 51 

Cheap dinners, 80 

dishes, 104 

Cheapest food, 135 

Cheese, digestible when cooked, 63 

dishes in Aladdin Oven, 97 

Cliurch, Prof. A. W., 22 

man's ration, 186 

Claims of author for oyen, 89 

Classes of nutrients, 129 

Coal, waste of, 21 

Cod liyer oil, fat pork a substitute, 81 

Coffee, use in system, 123 

Columbia College, lecture at, 19-41 

Comparatiye nutrition, 189-195 

Comparatiye expensiyeness of foods, 139*146 

(Ubles), 140, 141 

Comparison of nutrient yalues, 138 

of wheat fiour and potatoes, 142 

Composition of common foods, 128 
of food materials, 128 



PA OK 



Composition of food materials (tables), 131, l^i2 



Complexity in cooking. 

Constants in dietaries. 

Conclusions, 

Cookery books, merits and demerits, 

Cooking, art of, 

good, defined, 

in fiye hours. 

Cooking laboratories, 

pail, workman's, 

plain lessons in, 

taught in one lesson, 

thermometer. 



114 

173 

233 

36,37 

11 

38 

82-90 

32 

13, 20, 82, 96, 109 

48-60 

7,13 

12 

Co-operatiye kitchens, 5, 197 

Corn-meal, different sorts, 62 

Cost of food, in Boston, May, 1895, 171 

of food, 13, 20, 31, 32 

of liquors consumed, 31 

of Uying, 13, 20, 31, 32, 186 

ratio to nntritiye yalues, 136 

three thousand calories various foods, 145 



Count Rumf ord. 

Cow-pea, 

Creole cookery-book, 

Dal and other pulse, 

Daniell, Miss Maria, 

report on pail-cooking, 

recipes by. 

Diagrams, Aladdin Ovens, 
Dietaries, actual, by classes. 



10, 14, 163 

16,17 

114 

17 

73, 120, 198 

82-90 

85-90 

10, 54, 55 

125 



actual and standard, presented graph- 



ically, 
—^ actual for one day, 

American, by classes, 

for corpulence, 

of college students, 

standard, by classes, 

thirty days. 

Digestibility of foods. 
Dinner, Aladdin Oven menus for (M. H. A.)* 

96-100 

for twelve, costing sixty-one cents, 30 

in Aladdin Oven, 48-50 

seven courses, at thirteen cents per 

head, 30 



126 

150-162 

27 

124 

159-162 

124 

26, 171-188 

133 



• •, 



... ... . 

. " t * * 



« . 



GENERAL INDEX. 



239 





PAGE 


Dinner very cheap, 


80 


Dishes used in Aladdin Oreii, 


48,49 


Drying fruit in Aladdin Oven, 


101 


Economic food, 


135 


Economy in food materials, 


102-104 


in fuel, 


36,109 


true and false, 


135 


Eggs, American consumption of, 


31 


in Aladdin Oven, 


96 


Egleston, Prof. Thos., 


34, 196 


Emmet, Dr. M. Addis, on fat pork, 


81 


Energy, power of work, 


152 


potential wasted, 


34,166 


Etablissements Duval, 


6 


Experiment on a potage, E. A., 


114 


Extmotives, use in system, 


123 


Factory boarding-house food. 


31 


Family life, unit of civilization, 


39,40 


Fat compounds, 


129 


pork, 8u\)8titute for cod liver oil. 


81 


Fats, how affected by high heat. 


56 


use in body, 


123 


Fish in Aladdin Oven, 


95 


Flavors developed by Aladdin Oven, 


58,109 


Flour, cyclone process. 


107 


excellent sort. 


107 


Graham, 


59 


wheat, compared with potatoes. 


142 


Fly escape for kitchen. 


113 


Food, as related to wages. 


121 


animal, expensive. 


139 


average com*position of. 


127 


bill, national. 


31 


comparative expensiveness of (table). 




140, 141 


cost of. 


13, 31, 32 


daily needs. 


123 


defined, 


58 


digestibility of (table), 


133 


expensive vs, economical. 


139 


half cost of living, 


136 


how much required, 


122,123 


how used in human body. 


123,124 


materials, composition of, 128 


1, 131, 132 


nutritive value of (tables). 


131. 132 



PAOR 

Food of school children and students, 154-162 

potential energy in various kinds, 

131, 132, 144 
•^— preparation of, 34 

problem, importance of, 3-5 

proportions, 23, 146 

question related to industry, 119, 121 

selection of, 22 

source of power, 121, 122 

— — supply of different countries, 121 

true, 58 

values (table), 150 

vegetable, cheap, 139 

wholesale preparation of, 196-201 

why needed, 122 

Fruit, Aladdin Oven, 98 

canned in Aladdin Oven, 100, 101 

dried in Aladdin Oven, 101 

Frying in Aladdin Oven, 71 

true method. Sir Henry Thompson, 72, 73 

Fuel value of foods, 130, 132, 144 

Game in Aladdin Oven, 48 

of twenty questions, 7 

Gas used with Aladdin Oven, 45 
Glass ovens, 56, 57 
Grood cooking defined, 38 
health, evidences and essentials of, 

152, 153 
Graham flour, 59 

Grains in Aladdin Oven, ^ 94 

Griddlecakes, to cook, 60 

Grilling in Aladdin Oven, 60 

Gumption, proportion needed, 13, 14 

Havemeyer, Theodore A., contribution of, 34 

164 

152, 15.^ 
45 
38 

in 

109, ii: 
102,108 

117 
198 
169 



Health, better standard needed, 

good, defined. 

Heat of Aladdin Oven, 

wasted. 

Heater, St. Louis, kitchen, etc.. 
Heating water for household. 
Hominy, varied uses of, 
-~— see also under recipes. 
Hot water not needed for dishes, 
Hull House, 
Ideal ration, 



240 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PAGE 
Illustration " Aladdin Oven dinner," 40 
Importance of food problem, ^-6, 32 
Income, per cent, expended on Bubaistence, 136 
Infernal machine, kitchen stove, 16, 42 
Instructions for using Aladdin Oven (gen- 
eral), 43-48,116-117 
Instructions for Aladdin Oven dinner^ 48-60 
needed for spending not earning, 103, 104 



Invalid rations. 


168 


Jacketing for boilers, etc., 


6,57 


Kerosene oil for dishes. 


117 


Kitchen, Aladdin, described. 


112, 113 


New England, 


6,34 


range an infernal machine. 


16,42 




110 


Peoples', 


196 


Laboratory or Aladdin Kitchen, 


112 


fittings. 


113 


Lagging, Asbestos paper for boilers. 


6,67 


Lamps, 


42 


care of 


110 


(Mrs. Abel), 


02 


sto^^e or heater. 


110 


Lentils, food value and cooking. 


106, 106 


Lesson in plain cooking. 


48-60 


Life ration, 166, 168, 


175, 189 


Liquors, cost of, 


31 


Living, cost of, 20, 28, 81, 82 


on f260 a year. 


194 


well at §1 per week. 


28 



Lomb prize essay (Mrs. Abel), 
Meal, com. 
Meats, cheap cuts, 

in Aladdin Oven, 

recooked, 

Menus for dinners (Aladdin Oven), 
for lunch. 



22 

62 
104 
96 
96 
98 



105 

Mineral matters in food, 129 

Model kitchen described, 112, 113 

National food expenditures, 31 

New England Kitchen, 6, 34, 195 

in New York and Chicago, 198 

Night cooking, 117 
Nitrogen in pulse, 16 
must be secured at less cost, 192 



Nutrients, classes of, 

digested, proportion of. 



PAOE 

129 
134 

for 26 cents, tables, 140, 148, 149 

principal kinds, 128 

percentages of, in various foods, 131, 132 



Nutrition, comparative. 


189 


in different dieduies (graphic), 


126 


science of. 


19, 119 


standards of. 


23 


Objections to canning, 


196 


Office boy prepares dinner, 


36 


Oil, kerosene for dishes. 


117 


heater (St. Louis), 


117, 118 


stoves. 


84, 111 


Oven, Aladdin (see Aladdin), 




compared with oil stove. 


111 


cylinder. 


109 


hot water. 


87 


ordinary, defects of, 


38.41 


pail. Miss Danieirs report on, 


82,00 


portable. 


90 


Rumford, 


14 


tests (Miss Parloa), 


84 


Pail-oven, 


13, 20, 90 


— eooking time of. 


90 


Miss Danieirs report on. 


82,90 


Papin soup-digester, 


14 


Pastry in A laddin Oren, 


47,64 


Pavey, Dr., 


23,53 


People's kitchens. 


196 



Percentage of income spent for subsistence 



136 



Phipps, Mr. Henry, Jr., contribution of, 

34,198 

Pierce, Mr. Henry L., contribution of, 198 

Pies in Aladdin Oven, 98 

Playfair, Sir Lyon, 23 

Portable oven, 90 

Potatoes compared with wheat, 142 

Potential energy in various dietaries, 126 

obtained for 26 cents (tables) 141 

of food, 130 

of yariouB foods (tables), 131, 132 

wasted, 34 

Preface to fourth edition, 3 



GENERAL INDEX. 



241 





PAOB 


Preparation of food. 


85 


'■ — wholesale. 


191 


Principle of Aladdin Oren, 


S 


Professional man's ration. 


170 


Prophylactic yalue of food. 


168,171 


Proportion of nutrients digested. 


184 


of nutrients defectirei 


148 


Proteids in oats. 


22 


Protein compounds. 


120 


cost per pound (table), 


141, 142 


— *- in animal and vegetable foods. 


189 


in use in body, 


128 


Puddings in Aladdin Oren, 


96 


Pulse, nitrogen in, , 


16 


varieties of, 


17 


Purchasing power of 60 cents. 


172 


of 25 cents. 


173 


Purpose of author's work. 


6 


Quantity of food needed daily. 


128 


bought for 26 cents (table), 140 


Ratio of nutritire yalue to cost of food, 136 


Rations, common, invalids', 


168 


compared. 


190 


for a man (Church's), 


186 


for thirty days. 


26^26-30 


ideal with solid food. 


169 


 ideal with liquid food. 


169 


life. 


166^189 


life, compared. 


190 


rich in proteids. 


170 


work, 


168, 189 


for professional man. 


170 


Recipes (see Special Index). 




for cooking wholesale. 


199-201 


Relation of food to wages. 


121, 191 


Rice in Aladdin Oven, 


94 


not a perfect food. 


16,148 


varieties of, 


16,17 


Richards, Mrs. 'Rllen H. 22, 


28^84,120 


on science of nutrition. 


122 


Rumf ord Leaflet, No. 7, by. 


164 


No. 14, by. 


168 


Roasting in Aladdin Oven, 


47, 61, 96 


Rumford, Count, 


10, 14, 168 


oven. 


14 



Romford Kitchen Leaflet^ No. 7, 

No. 14, 

Saloon for sale of soup. 
Sauces, importance of, 
Satit^ing in Aladdin Oven, 
School buildings on new plans. 
Science of cooking, 

of nutrition, treatise on, 

Scotch bill of fare. 

Selection of food, 

Shaw, Mrs. Quincy A., 

Shop-girls' oven. 

Simmering, 

Slow cooking, merits of. 

Soy or soja bean, 

Soup stock, Aladdin Oven, 

Soup " saloon," 

Standard Aladdin Oven, 

Standards of nutrition, 

(American), 

(scientific). 



PAOE 

154, 161 

168, 171 

66 

87 

44, 59, 60, 69 

195 

12,37 

19 

143 

22 

197 

109 

37,47 

60, 60, 63, 91 

16 

47,96 

66 

67 

23 

24, 26, 27 

147 

191 

96 

56 

110 

198 

164-161 



Standing armies and food question. 
Stewing, Aladdin Oven, 
Stimulants, why craved. 
Stove lamp or heater. 
Story of the kitchen. 
Students' luncheons. 
Subsistence, per cent, of income spent for, i:^ 
Tea, use in system, 123 

Testimonials, 202-232 

Therapeutic value of food, 163 

Thermometer, cooking, 12 

Thirty days' rations, 25, 26-30 

Thompson, Benjamin (Count Rumford), 10, 14 

198 

22, 30, 96 

44 

86 

44,61 

6, 18, 52 

58 

7 

173 

139 

47,97 



Elizabeth, 

Sir Henry, 

Time for cooking in Aladdin Oven, 
Time table (Mrs. Sterling's), 
Toasting in Aladdin Oven, 
Trade-mark "Aladdin Oven," 
True food defined, 
Twenty questions, new game of. 
Variables in dietaries, 
Vegetable food cheap. 
Vegetables in Aladdin Oven* 



242 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Voit, Professor, 

Wages as related to food supply. 
Warming water, Aladdin Oven, 
Waste in cooking, 

of coal, 

of potential energy. 



PAOS 

28 

121 

46,100 

82,38 

21 

84,103 



Watts, Dr. George, on food products of 

India, 16 

Wheat flour compared with potatoes, 142 



PAGK 



Wholesale preparation of food (Mrs. 

Richards), 106-201 
Williams, Dr. M., Chemistry of Cookery, 6:^ 
Work ration, 16Q, 175, 189 
Workingman's dinner pail, 13, 20 
Miss Darnell's report, 82-90 

— — soon perfected, 109 

— earnings, half for food, 144 
food standard, 188 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



[Those marked •• E. A." have heen deyeloped under the dlraotlon of the Author ; those marked " M. D.** are 
famished by Miss Maria Daniell ; those marked " M. H. A." are given by Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel.] 



All sorts of things, £. A., 
Apple pudding, E. A., 
Apples with pork chops, E. A., 
Asparagus on toast, E. A., 
Bacon with eggs, E. A., 

with hominy, E. A., 

Baked chicken, E. A., 
Baking bread, 
Batter pudding, E. A., 
Beans baked, E. A., 

stewed with corned shoulder, M. 

Beef & la mode, M.D., 

(Murrey), 

broth (New England Kitchen), 

brown fricassee, M. D., 

corned, E. A., 

oatmeal and tomato, M. D., 

roast with potatoes, E. A., 

roll, M. D., 

No. 2, M. D., 

shin of, soup, E. A., 

skirt steak, M. D., 

spiced, E. A., 

steak, E. A., 

steak pudding, M. D., 

stew, M. D., 

(New England Kitchen), 



D 



with gravy, E. A., 

with mushroom gravy, E. A., 

with oysters, E. A., 

Birds, Aladdin fashion, E. A., 
 broiled, E. A., 
— potted, E. A., 



PAOB 

71 

76 

66,74 

76 

60 

63 

74 

d8 

76 

62 

. 87 

86 

90 

51, 190 

88 

74 

85 

74 

86 

86 

73 

86 

75 

74 

87 

86 

200 
74 
74 

104 
78 
59 
78 



PA.OE 

Bird's-nest pudding, E. A., 7« 

Biscuits to bake, £. A., 60 

rye,'E. A., 77 

soda, M. H. A, 94 

Box pudding, E. A., 69, 70 

Boiled dish, E A., 79 

fowls, E. A., 66 

Bread, E. A., 64 

M. D., 89 

New England Kitchen, 201 

and raisin cake, E. A., 70 

baking, M. II. A., 98 

brown, E. A., 62, 77 

Case's health, 64 

corn, E. A., 77 

gems, E. A., 59 

general directions, 46 

Graham, E. A ., 77 

making, E. A., 106 

rolls, Parker House, E. A., 08 

rye, 64 

Sir Henry Thompson's, M. 1)., 65 

thin Indian, E. A., 78 

toasted, E. A., 61 

white, E. A., 77 

whole meal, in flat cakes, from " Food 

and Feeding," . 66 
whole meal, with yeast, from " Food 

and Feeding," 66 
Breakfast dishes, E. A., 69-61 
Broiled chicken, E. A., ' 69, 74 
Broth, beef. New England Kitchen, 61, 199 
from fowls, E. A., (U> 



244 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 





PAGE 




PAGK 


Brown bread, E. A., 


62,77 


Cottage pudding, E. A., 


7(J 


fricassee of beef, M. D., 


88 


Cracker pudding, E. A., 


70 


pudding, E. A., 


08 


Cranberries, M. H. A., 


08 


Browning fish, E. A., 


01 


Cream sauce, E. A. 


74 


meats, etc., E. A., 


61 


Crispy cakes, E. A., 


08 


Cabbage and sausage, £. A., 


79 


Crust for four pies, E. A., 


70 


Cake, Aladdin Oven, 


97 


Cusk k la crSme, E. A., 


61 


bread and raisin, E. A., 


70 


Cutlets, veal, E. A., 


69 


crispy, E. A., 


68 


Daub, Creole dish, 


105 


gingerbread, E. A^ 


77 


Duck, E. A., 


87 


^^Shrewsbury, E. A., 


89 


Washington style, with addenda, E 


.A. 67 


spice, E. A., 


77 


Dinner menus, Aladdin Oven, 


98, 100 


sponge, E. A., 


77 


Eggs, baked, M. H. A., 


97 


thin molasses gingerbread, E. A. 


68 


boiled, M. H. A., 


07 


tliin sugar gingerbread, E. A., * 


68 


in Aladdin Oven, 


96 


Calfs heart, M. D., 


87 


with ham or bacon, E. A., 


60 


Case's health bread. 


64 


Fish, It la cr^me, 


61 


Celery sauce, E. A., 


66 


balls. New England Kitchen. 


200 


stewed, E. A., 


76 


chowder, E. A., 


62 


with cheap meats, E. A., 


104 


: clams, seaside fashion, E. A., 


62 


Cheese dishes in Aladdin Oven, M. H. 


A., 97 


for breakfast, E. A., 


60 


pudding, E. A., 


63 


halibut, E. A., 


75 


Cherries preserved in Aladdin Oven, 


101 


k la cr^me, E. A., 


61 


Chicken, Aladdin fashion, E. A., 


78 


in Aladdin Oven, M. H. A., 


95 


baked, E. A., 


74 


with oysters, E. A., 


104 


broiled, E. A., 


69,74 


Fowls roasted or boiled, 


m 


potted, E. A., 


78 


Fricassee, brown of beef, M. D., 


88 


roast, E. A., 


49 


Fruit, drying in Aladdin Oven, M. 11. A 


., 101 


with mushroom or celery sauce. 


E. A. 66 


how to preserve, E. A., 


79,80 


Chops, mutton, E. A., 


69,94 


to cook, Aladdin Oven, M. H. A., 


98 


pork with apple, E. A., 


66 


to preserve, 


104 


Chowder, fish, E. A., 


62 


Gander minced on toast, E. A., 


66 


Clams, seaside fashion, E. A., 


62 


Gingerbread, E. A., 


77 


Codfish and cream, E. A., 


64* 


thin molasses, E. A., 


68 


 in milk, M. D., 


87 


thin sugar, E. A., 


68 


with oysters, E. A., 


104 


Glaze, M. D., 


80 


Coffee, E. A., 


78 


Grape juice. 


104 


— Southern method. 


68 


Graham bread, E. A., 


77 


Consomm^ of fresh vegetables. Sir Henry 


Grains in Aladdin Oven, 


94 


Thompson, 


90 


to cook, 


70 


Corn-bread, E. A., 


77 


Griddlecakes, E. A., 


60 


— ^ New England Kitchen, 


201 


Ground rice pudding, E. A., 


76 


green. 


104 


Grouse potted, E. A., 


78 


Corned beef, E. A., 


74 


roast, E. A., 


67 


shoulder, with stewed beans, M. 


I)., 87 


with bread sauce. 


67 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



245 







PAGE 


• 


PAOB 




Haddock, fresh, in tomato, M. D., 


87 


Pastry in Aladdin Oven, E. A., 


64 




in tomato sauce, M. D., 


• 88 


Pease, green. 


104 




Halibut It la cr€me, E. A., 


61 


Pease pudding, M. D., 


87 




Ham cooked whole, £. A., 


63 


soup. New England Kitchen, 


200 




— ; — or bacon with eggs, E. A., 


60 


Pickled pig's feet, M. D. 


85 




Hash, Sara Weller, B. A., 


62 


— — tripe, M. D , 


85 




Hasty pudding, E. A., 


76 


Pig's feet k la vinaigre, M. D., 


85 




fried, E. A., 


77 


Pie-crust, E. A., 


79 




" Hog and hominy," E. A., 


63 


Pies in Aladdin Oven, M. H. A., 


98 




Hominy plain, £. A., 


78 


Plum pudding, Thanksgiving, M. D., 


88 




with duck or grouse, E. A., 


67 


without eggs, M. D., 


88 




with duck, Washington style, E. 


A., 67 


Poor man's pudding, E. A., 


70 




with pork, E. A., 


63 


Pop overs, E. A., 


76 




ten recipes for using, E. A., 


102,103 


Pork chops smothered in apples, E. A., 


eQ 




Indian cake, thin, E. A., 


78 


cortfed shoulder of, with stewed beans, 




pudding, E. A., 


62,76 


M. D., 


87 




pudding, M. D., 


88 


Porridge, E. A., 


60 




pudding. New England Kitchen, 


201 


Potage ii la Atkinson, 


114 




Lentils, E. A., 


106 


Potatoes roasted with beef, E. A., 


74 




vegetable soup, 


105 


stewed with sausage, M. D., 


86 




Macaroni, E. A., 


67 


Pottedbirds, E. A., 


78 




Meats, Aladdin Oven, M. H. A., 


06 


chicken, E. A., 


78 




Menus, Aladdin Oven dinners, M. H. A 


.,98-100 


grouse, E. A., 


78 




lunch. 


105 


Poultry, Aladdin fashion, E. A., 


78 




dinner for 12, costing 61 cents, E. 


A., 80 


browned, E. A., 


61 




seven-course dinner at 13 cents a 


Preserving fruit with or without sugar. 






head, E. A., 


30 


E. A., 


79,80 




Molasses gingerbread, £. A., 


68 


Pudding, apple, £. A., 


75 




Mush, general rule, E. A., 


60 


batter, E. A., 


76 


« 


Mushroom gravy for beef, E. A., 


74 


bird's-nest, E. A., 


76 




sauce, E. A., 


66 


box, E. A., 


69,70 




Mutton chops, E. A., 


50,04 


bread, E. A., 


49 




stew, M. D., 


87 


brown, E. A., 


68,76 




warmed over, E. A., 


71 


cottage, E. A., 


76 




with tomato, M. D., 


87 


cracker, E. A., 


76 




Oatmeal in bread. 


66 


ground rice, E. A., 


76 




mush, E. A., 


60 


hasty, E. A,, 


76 




pudding, M. D., 


88 


Indian, E. A., 


62.76 




with beef and tomato, M. D., 


85 


M. D., 


88 




Omelet, E. A., 


61,60 


New England Kitchen^ 


201 




M. H. A., 


97 


oatmeal, M. D., 


88 




Oyster plant, E. A., 


75 


pease, M. D., 


87 




Pancakes, £. A., 


61 


poor man's, E. A., 


76 




Parker House rolls, E. A., 


68 


plum, without eggs, M. D., 


88 




Partridge with sauce, £. A.j 


66 


steak, M. D., 


87 



246 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 



Pudding, Thanksgiying, M. D., 

rice. New England "Kitchen, 

Quail with bread sauce, E. A., 

with sauce, E. A., 

Rice, ground, pudding, £. A., 

pudding, New England Kitchen, 

Roast beef, E. A., 

chicken, E. A., 

veal, E. A., 

Roasted wheat cakes, E. A., 
Roots and tubers, to cook, 
Rolls, Parker House, E. A., 
Rye biscuits, E. A., 

bread, E. A., 

Salt codfish in milk, M. D., 

with cream, E. A., 

Sam Weller hash, E. A., 
Sauce, bread, for grouse, £. A., 

celery, E. A., 

cream, E. A., 

mushroom, E. A., 

Sausages, £. A., 

stewed with potato, M. I)., 

with cabbage, E. A., 

with hominy, E. A., 

Scones, whole meal, Thompson, 
Sheep's heart, M. D., 
Shrewsbury cake, E. A., 
Skirt steak, M. D., 
Sponge cake, R. A., 
Spice cake, E. A., 



PAQB 

88 
201 
75 
66 
76 
201 
74 
49 
74 
61 
70 
68 
77 
64 
87 
64 
62 
74 
66 
66 
66 
60 
86 
79 
63 
66 
87 



Spiced beef, E. A., 

Soup, Aladdin Oven excellent for, M. II. 

E. A., 

shin of beef, E. A., 

stock, to make, M. D., 

Stewed beans with corned pork, M. D., 

celery, E. A., 

mutton, M. D., 

sausage, M. D., 

Stock, to make, M. D., 

Sugar gingerbread, £. A., 

Thanksgiving plum pudding, M. I)., 

Toasting bread, £. A., 

Tomato and beef with oatmeal, M. !>., 

sauce for haddock, M. D., 

soup, New England Kitchen, 

with haddock, M. D., 

with mutton, M. D., 

Tripe ii la crdme, M. D., 

k la vinaigre, M. D., 

Veal cutlets, E. A., 

roast, E. A., 

Vegetables, M. II. A., 

soup, M. H. A., 

New England Kitchen. 

to cook. 



86 

77 
77 



Venison warmed over, E. A., 
White bread, E. A., 
Wheat cakes, roasted, E. A., 
Whole-meal bread in flat cakes, 
with yeast. 



PA«K 

75 
A., 96 

7a 

73 
89 

87 

75 

87 

86 

89 

68 

88 

61 

85 

88 

199 
87 
87 
85 
85 
69 
79 
97 
97 

199 
70 
71 
77 
61 
65 
65 




; ^- OE tT - *"» POYAT065 /^ . ■/. 



z: 



A ^ 






