
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




J'itf-^C 



RADCUFFE COLLEGE UBRARYI 



SSt 



WOMEN'S ARCHIVES 

Transferred from 

HARVARD COLLEGE UBRARY 

1960 







P?aibarti College i^ihrar|) 

RHCEIVED BY BEQUEST 
^ SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 Jt 



o 

COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 



BY 

YSAGUIRRE AND LA MARCA 




NEW YORK 

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 

1896 






HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST OF 

MRS. CHESTER N. 6REEII0U6H 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 






Copyright, 1896^ hy Harper & Brotber& 

AH right* reatrvtd. 



PEEFACE 

When the hot midsummer months come, 
who is it that does not feel a repugnance for 
hot food, and whose palate does not demand 
something delicate yet cold ? For them, and 
for the housekeeper who is so unfortunate as 
to have to attend to the culinary department 
of her establishment, is this book intended. 
All the receipts given are for dishes to be 
eaten cold ; many of them require no cook- 
ing, as canned and preserved goods may be 
used in their preparation, although fresh 
meats and vegetables are always preferable ; 
and all can be prepared in the cool morning 
Ijours, before the sun's rays make life hardly 
bearable. 



iv PREFACE 

The authors hope that this collection of 

receipts will be welcome, taking, as it does, 

the one unfilled place in the long list of 

culinary works. 

The Authobs. 
April, 18»6. 



CONTENTS 

PAOB 
COHSOMMB 1 

Fish 5 

Meats 16 

Poultry 26 

Game 31 

Vegetables 35 

bouchees 37 

Pies and Patties 42 

Fish Patties 49 

Cold Sauces and Dressings 51 

Salads . . • 58 

Creams 75 

Charlottes 79 

Jellies 84 

Ice-Creams and Water-Ices 88 

Cakes and Biscuits 101 

Tarts and Pies 110 

puddinqs 113 

Jams and Jellies 118 

Sandwiches and Savory Morsels 120 



INTRODUCTION 

We read in physiology that " many aro- 
matic substances" and "various kinds of 
flesh when well cooked, especially when 
highly spiced or flavored with sauce, un- 
doubtedly excite the stomach, and stimu- 
late the appetite by their odor, and it is 
this that makes the artifices of cookery so 
valuable Avhen the appetite is not naturally 
strong"; so that by going into the higher 
sciences — for cookery is a science in itself — 
we find the methods which should be fol- 
lowed by all cooks, and which the French 
long ago discovered and put to practical use, 
by which means a dish is made appetizing 
by giving it a flavor that shall not alone 
tickle our nostrils, but also excite our appe- 
tite by its fragrance. 



viii INTRODUCTION 

As the appetite is excited by the sense of 
smell, so is it also by that of sight. A dish 
may be very fragrant, and also agreeable to 
the palate, but if the general appearance is 
not such as to please the organs of sight it 
will so counterbalance the sense of smell 
that, if the appetite of the person be not 
highly developed, the dish will be repug- 
nant, and the diner unable to bring himself 
to eat it. 

It naturally follows that the cook must be 
also an artist, both as to the aroma of his 
or her preparations and as to the artistic 
arrangement of the different dishes with 
which he or she would please the palate of 
the gourmet. 

The authors believe that the receipts given 
will be — for their fragrance and taste — wel- 
come, but they leave to the artistic ability of 
the cook to so garnish the different dishes as 
to make them pleasing to the sight. 

All greens, such as cresses, parsley, lettuce, 
etc., and vegetables, such as beets, carrots, 



INTRODUCTION ix 

radishes, also eggs, and, in fact, one thousand 
and one things, will suggest themselves to 
the cook of artistic taste, which can be used 
to garnish the dishes with. 

For desserts, fancily cut colored papers, 
Chinese paper napkins, narrow ribbons of 
bright colors, mottoes, etc., can be used to 
give an attractive appearance to the differ- 
ent dishes. 



Consomme 

Consomme should be strained very clear, 
and so served, or colored with a little burnt 
sugar or a piece of bread toasted. It may 
be taken as a liquid, or, as some people pre- 
fer, a jelly. 

Very good soups and consomm6 may be 
bought in tins and jars at any of the princi- 
pal grocers', but these, like all canned or pre- 
served goods, lack that delicate flavor which 
can only be obtained from fresh goods. 
calf's-foot consomme 

Boil 2 calf's feet, 2 ounces veal, a little nut- 
meg, a few blades of mace, and salt to taste, 
in 3 quarts of water, till it is reduced to 
3 pints ; strain, take off the fat, and place 
on the ice to cool. 



2 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

CHICKEN CONSOMME 

Boil a fowl, including the head and feet, 
nicely scalded and cleaned ; add to the liquor 
a blade of mace and an onion ; boil brisk- 
ly till the meat separates from the bones; 
strain off and place on the ice to cool. 

CONSOMME OF MUTTON 

Place 12 mutton shanks, 1 pound of lean 
beef, and an onion, with 4 quarts of water, 
in a saucepan, and allow to simmer for four 
hours. Strain off. When cold, place on the 
ice to harden, or it may be taken liquid. 

CONSOMME ROYAL 

Boil briskly for an hour the head and 
feet of four fowls, 1 pound of lean beef cut 
into small pieces, in 2 quarts of water, and 
add an onion, turnip, and salt to taste. Ee- 
move the scum. Strain off and place on the 
ice to cool. 

CONSOMME OF VEAL 

Take a knuckle of veal, a fowl, 4 shank 
bones, 3 blades of mace, a few pepper-corns, 
an onion, and boil in 3 quarts of water. 



G0NS0MM£ 3 

When it boils skim it till the scum ceases to 
rise, cover the vessel, and allow to simmer 
for four hours. Place on the ice to cool. 

IMPEBIAL CONSOMME 

Cut 2 pounds of lean veal into small 
pieces, adding half a pound of lean ham 
and a small chicken. Place in a stewpan 
with 1 ounce of butter, 3 onions, 2 carrots, 8 
mushrooms, 1 celery stalk, 1 parsnip, a blade 
of mace, and a quarter of a pint of water ; 
let it stow in the pan till it catches at the 
bottom and is quite brown, but not burnt, 
then add 4 quarts of water ; let it boil gently 
for three hours, then strain off and place on 
the ice to cool. 

WINDSOR CONSOMME 

Cut 4 pounds of beef into small slices; 
place a slice of lean undressed bacon on the 
bottom of the stewpan ; lay the meat over it, 
with a few bits of butter or a cupful of fresh 
gravy. Slice over this a carrot, 2 onions, a 
little shallot, a stalk of celery, 2 bay-leaves, 
and some sweet herbs. Use a deep pot. 



4 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

Place over the fire, and shake occasionally 
to prevent the meat from sticking. When 
the meat is browned on both sides, and the 
juice partly drawn, add the necessary amount 
of water, allowing for waste. Skim well, 
check the boil with cold water, and skim it 
again and again. Let it simmer for three 
hours ; strain and place in a cool, dry place. 



jffBb 

BAKED HEBBINGS 

Scale, wash, and dry the herrings ; mix 
some pepper, a few cloves, and salt ; rub over 
the fish. Lay the herrings in a pot ; cover 
them with vinegar ; add a few bay-leaves ; 
cover tightly. Bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve cold. 

BAKED SALM0I4 

(1.) Place the fish in a deep pan ; put bits 
of butter over it. Season with allspice, mace, 
salt, and paprika ; rub a little of the season- 
ing on the inside. Baste occasionally with 
the gravy that collects in the baking-pan. 
Serve cold ; garnish with parsley. 

(2.) Scale and dry a fresh salmon; take 
out the bone by splitting down the back ; salt 



6 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

it well, and allow to stand till the brine is 
drained off ; then season with mace, cloves, 
and a little red pepper, pounded fine ; place 
the salmon in a covered pan, with bay-leaves, 
and cover it with butter ; place in the oven, 
and when done drain it from the gravy. Al- 
low to cool, and pour over clarified butter. 

CAVEACH MACKEREL 

Clean and divide 6 mackerel ; cut each half 
into 3 pieces. Powder and mix 1 ounce of 
pepper, 2 nutmegs, a little mace, 4 cloves, and 
salt ; make a hole in each piece of fish, into 
which force the seasoning. Fry in oil, allow 
to become perfectly cold, put in a stone jar, 
and cover with vinegar. 

COLD CRABS 

(1.) Pick the meat out from the shells and 
claws of boiled crabs ; add some bread crumbs, 
paprika, essence of anchovy, 2 spoonfuls of 
vinegar, some clarified butter, and a spoon- 
ful of cider vinegar ; mix thoroughly. Clean 
the shells and fill them with the mixture. 
Pound the spawn in a mortar, pass it through 



FISH 7 

a sieve, and lay it over the crabs in fancy 
shapes. Garnish with parsley and the claws. 
The meat of two crabs will fill but one shell. 
(2.) Pick out the meat ; mix it well with a 
teaspoonful of salad-oil, red pepper, and salt. 
Serve in the shells. 

COLLARED EEL 

Bone a large eel, whole ; lay it out flat, 
and season with pepper and salt, a table- 
spoonful of pounded mace, allspice, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, a small onion 
chopped fine, thyme, and marjoram. EoU 
up the eel, beginning at the tail; tie in a 
cloth, and place in a stewpan, together with 
a gill of vinegar, a pint of water, an onion, 
and 2 bay -leaves; boil for an hour. When 
cold take oflf the cloth and keep it in the 
liquor in which it was boiled, adding to it a 
little salt. 

COLLABED EELS 

Mix together parsley, shallot, thyme, mar- 
joram, pepper, mace, cloves, nutmeg, allspice, 
powdered mushrooms, lemon-peel, and salt. 



8 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

Clean and bone the eels ; lay them flat, with 
the inside upward ; rub the above mixture 
well into them. EoU them up and tie in a 
cloth ; boil in salt and water, with lemon-peel, 
a few bay- leaves, and pepper; add some 
vinegar. When done take the collars out, 
skim oflf the fat, and boil down to a jelly, 
which is to be poured over the eels when 
cold. 

COLLAEED MACKEREL 

Bone the mackerel, and sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, a tablespoonful of allspice, chopped 
onion, and parsley ; roll them up and place 
in a pan ; pour over them enough water and 
vinegar, mixed, to cover them ; let them boil 
gently for an hour ; keep them in the pickle, 
and serve cold. They may be baked instead 
of boiled. 

COLLABED SALMON 

Split, scale, and bone the salmon ; season 
with mace, cloves, pepper, and salt ; roll up 
in a cloth ; bake it with butter and vinegar. 
Serve cold. 



FISH 9 

oi&TEVA SALMON 

Tie up a piece of salmon, and place in a 
kettle with sliced onions, carrots, salt, spices, 
and a pint of claret or port ; when done take 
from the liquor and serve cold with tartar 
sauce. 

MOCK CAVIARE 

Bone and pound some anchovies together 
with a little dried parsley, a clove of garlic, 
a little red pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and a 
little oil. Serve on toasted bread. 

PICKLED OYSTERS 

(1.) Wash the oysters ; strain the liquor, 
and add to every pint a glass of white wine, 
mace, nutmeg, white pepper-corns, and salt ; 
simmer the oysters for five minutes, but do 
not allow to boil, as they will become hard. 
Place them in glass jars. Add to the liquor 
a glass of vinegar, and boil ; skim the pickle, 
and pour over the oysters. When cold cover 
very tightly. 

(2.) Place the oysters in astewpan; sprin- 
kle with fine Lisbon sugar; add their liquor, 



10 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

well strained, and set on the fire for five 
minutes, but do not allow to boil. Draw off 
the liquor, and add to it double the amount 
of vinegar, together with some catsup, pa- 
prika, lemon-peel, and salt ; boil a quarter of 
an hour. Sprinkle the oysters with sugar 
and salt, and place them in a stone jar. 
When cold strain the pickle over them and 
cover very tightly. 

(3.) Put the oysters in a saucepan with 
their own liquor, and allow to simmer gently 
for ten minutes; then lay in a jar. When 
cold pour over them the following pickle: 
boil the liquor of the oysters with a bit of 
mace, lemon-peel, black pepper, and vinegar. 
Keep in small jar well covered. 

PICKLED SMELTS 

Wash and clean the smelts. Pound to- 
gether half an ounce of pepper, half an ounce 
of mace, half an ounce of saltpetre, and the 
same quantity of nutmeg ; lay the smelts in 
layers, placing the seasoning between each 
layer ; add a few bay-leaves ; boil some red 



FISH 11 

wine, and pour over the fish enough to cover 
it. When cold cover well. 

PICKLED STURGEON 

Cut the sturgeon into small pieces ; wash 
it well, and tie in a cloth. To 3 quarts of 
water add 1 quart of strong beer, salt, 1 
ounce of ginger, 2 ounces of pepper, 1 ounce 
of cloves, and 1 ounce of Jamaica pepper ; 
when the liquor boils put in the sturgeon ; 
when done take it from the fire and allow to 
stand overnight ; add a quart of strong vine- 
gar and salt. Cover closely. 

POTTED EEL 

Skin and clean a large eel ; dry and cut 
into small pieces about four inches in length ; 
season with mace, pepper, and salt ; lay in a 
pan and cover with melted butter ; bake for 
half an hour in a quick oven. When done 
take it out and place on a cloth to drain. 
Pack closely in a pot; melt the butter it 
was baked in, and pour it over the eel. 

POTTED HERRINGS 

Cut the heads off the herrings and lay in 



12 COLD DISHES FOR fiOT WEATHER 

an earthen pot ; sprinkle a little salt between 
each layer; add cloves, mace, pepper, and 
sliced nutmeg ; fill up the vessel with vine- 
gar, water, and white wine; cover it and 
place in the oven. When cold take out the 
herrings and put into well-covered vessels. 

POTTED LOBSTER 

(1.) Parboil the lobster ; cut it into small 
pieces, and season with mace, white pepper, 
nutmeg, and salt ; press into a pot and cover 
it with buttef ; bake for half an hour ; put 
in the spawn. When cold take out the lob- 
ster and put it into covered vessels with a 
little of the butter ; beat the rest of the but- 
ter with some of the spawn, and cover the 
lobster with it. 

(2.) Take out the meat from the lobster 
without breaking; season with mace, nut- 
meg, white pepper, salt, and cloves. Put a 
little butter at the bottom of a pan, and lay 
the lobster over it, placing between the 
layers a few bay-leaves ; cover with butter, 
and bake in a slow oven ; when done strain, 



FISH 13 

lay in potting-pans, and add the seasoning. 
When cold pour clarified butter over it. 

POTTED MACKEREL 

Clean, season, and bake the mackerel in a 
pan, with plenty of spices, bay-leaves, salt, 
and butter. When cold put them into a pot 
and cover with butter. 

P01*rED SALMON 

Split, scale, and clean the salmon, but do 
not wash ; rub with salt, and drain off the 
moisture ; season with pounded mace, cloves, 
black pepper, and cayenne pepper. Cut the 
salmon into small pieces, lay them in a pan, 
and cover with melted butter. Bake, drain 
from the fat, put the pieces into pots and 
cover with clarified butter. 

SALMAGUNDI 

Wash and open 2 pickled herrings; re- 
move the meat from the bones, being care- 
ful not to break the skin, and keeping the 
head, tail, and fins on it ; mince the fish 
with the breast of a chicken, the yolks of 
2 hard-boiled eggs, an onion, a boned an- 



14 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

chovy, a little grated ham or tongue; sea- 
son with oil, vinegar, red pepper, and salt ; 
fill up the herring-skins so that they may 
look plump, and shape carefully. Garnish 
with parsley, and serve with mustard. 

SALMON JELLY 

Break the salmon into flakes ; season with 
allspice, nutmeg, salt, and pepper; fill a 
mould with alternate layers of the salmon 
and aspic jelly. Turn out on a flat dish, and 
garnish with lettuce - leaves and hard-boiled 
eggs. 

OEBICHE DE CAMAEONES (cRAWFISH) 

Boil the crawfish and remove the shells. 
Cut 3 onions into rounds; pour boiling 
water over them, let stand for five minutes, 
and repeat two or three times. Strain the 
juice of bitter oranges or lemons; mix in 
salt and paprika; put the fish into a deep 
dish together with the onions, and pour over 
them enough of the lemon -juice to com- 
pletely cover them. 



FISH 16 

OEBICHE DE PESOADO (fISH) 

Cut the fish into half -inch cubes. Pre- 
pare the onions as in the preceding receipt ; 
also the lemon-juice, with the paprika and 
salt. Put the fish into a deep dish, with 
lemon- juice suflicient to cover it; allow to 
stand for three or four hours; stir well 
every ten minutes until the fish looks white 
and cooked. Bear in mind that the fish 
does not go near the fire. The best fish to 
use is halibut. 



Aeat0 

BEEF A LA MODE 

(1.) Take 4 pounds of bottom round, and 
rub well with powdered spices and salt. Lay- 
skewers on the bottom of the stewpan, and 
spread over them thin slices of bacon ; place 
the beef on the bacon, and lay over it a few 
more slices ; add a little vinegar ; cover close- 
ly and stew for two hours. Add to the 
gravy a seasoning of cloves, pepper, bay- 
leaves, mushrooms, a little catsup, and a few 
button onions ; simmer till the meat is quite 
tender ; serve the meat dry ; strain the gravy 
and boil it slowly for an hour, when it will 
jelly ; glaze the meat with the jelly. 

(2.) Slice and fry to a nice brown 2 onions ; 
cut a quarter of a pound of bacon into small 



MEATS 17 

pieces; dip them into 3 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar ; make deep holes in a nice piece of 
beef weighing about *4 pounds, into which 
put the badon ; rub the beef well with all- 
spice, cloves, 2 blades of mace, salt, pepper, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, all finely minced ; 
place the beef in a saucepan ; pour over it 
the vinegar, a small glass of currant jelly, 
the juice of a lemon ; add a carrot, turnip, a 
bead of celery, and the spices ; allow to sim- 
mer gently for four or five hours. Take up 
and set on a dish to cool. 

BEEF BODILLI 

Cut cold beef into slices about half an inch 
thick and ^ about two inches wide ; make a 
dressing of finely chopped shallots, parsley, 
pepper, salt, mustard, egg, oil, and vinegar ; 
pour the mixture over the beef ; serve gar- 
nished with water-cress. 

COLLARED BEEF 

Lard a piece of corned beef ; make holes 
in it, and fill with a dressing of bread 
crumbs, suet, parsley, grated lemon -peel, 



18 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the 
yolk of an egg mixed well together ; bake 
with a little water, whole peppers, and an 
onion. Serve cold. 

DATIBE GLACE 

Take a piece of lean beef ; make holes in 
it, and fill them with strips of fat which have 
previously been rolled in powdered sage, 
pepper, allspice, salt, and a little minced 
shallot. Boil 2 calf's feet to a jelly ; strain 
and set aside to cool. Place the meat in a 
pan with the jelly ; add to it some cloves ; 
cover very tightly and cook for four hours. 
Place in a deep dish ; pour the jelly over it ; 
cool and put on the ice. 

FORCED BEEF 

Lard a piece of fresh corned beef ; make 
holes in it, and fill them with bread crumbs, 
suet, parsley, grated lemon-peel, sweet herbs, 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg, 
mixed so as to make a stuffing ; bake in a 
pan with a little water and wine, whole pep- 
per, 2 bay-leaves, and an onion. When done 



MEATS 19 

skim off the fat; put the meat in a dish 
and pour the liquor over it; set aside to 
cool. 

GALANTINE OF BEEF 

Mix together half a pound of bread 
crumbs, 1 pound of sausage meat, some 
chopped parsley, thyme, marjoram, season- 
ing, 6 eggs, and spice. Cut a piece of corned 
beef, weighing about 5 or 6 pounds, into a 
large thin sheet ; season with pepper and 
salt ; spread the force-meat over it ; sprinkle 
some mushrooms over the meat, and roll it 
up very tightly ; tie in a cloth, and boil on a 
slow fire for five hours ; when done take it 
up and place between two dishes with a 
weight on top ; when cold trim the ends and 
glaze. 

JELLIED MEAT 

Soak and clean 4 calf's feet; boil until 
done ; strain and separate the meat from the 
bones, and set aside to cool ; pour the liquor 
into a jar, and when cold remove the grease. 
Take a shank of beef and boil it until the 



20 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

meat falls in pieces; remove it from the 
liquor. Cut the meat from the calf s feet 
and the beef into small pieces ; put the jelly 
into a pan ; add to it the meat ; mix well to- 
gether, and heat to the boiling-point. Sea- 
son with red pepper and salt to taste ; pour 
into a mould to set. 

POTTED BEEF 

Take 4 pounds of corned beef ; place in a 
pan with a little suet and water ; cook in an 
oven ; when done pound in a mortar till it is 
perfectly smooth ; season with cayenne, salt, . 
pepper, a little mace, some of the gravy, and 
half a pound of melted butter. When thor- 
oughly mixed put into pots and cover with 
melted butter. 

POTTED MEAT 

Chop any kind of cold meat ; season with 
salt, pepper, cloves, and cinnamon ; moisten 
with a little wine, vinegar, and Worcester- 
shire sauce. Pack the meat in a jar, and 
cover it with about half an inch of melted 
butter. This meat will keep for some time. 



\ 



MEATS 21 

POTTED OX-TONGITE 

Boil a fresh tongue ; skin, clean, and re- 
move the bones ; when cold mince very fine, 
and add 4 ounces of butter to each pound of 
tongue, some mace, nutmeg, cloves, paprika, 
salt, and a little black pepper; mix well; 
place in jars and pour melted butter over. 

RED BEEF 

Take a piece of corned beef and season it 
with pounded mace, cloves, pepper, a little 
allspice, salt, chopped parsley, and shallot. 
Boil it till tender; cut into thin slices; serve 
cold. 

EIBS OF BEEF A LA PORCUPINE 

Bone the flat ribs and beat them flat ; rub 
over with the yolks of eggs ; sprinkle on 
bread crumbs, parsley, leeks, marjoram, 
lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little 
paprika ; roll it up very tightly ; lard it with 
bacon ; then a row of cold tongue, another 
of pickled cucumbers, a fourth row of lemon- 
peel ; do it over in rows as above till it has 
been larded all over ; then place in a deep 



22 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

pot with a little water ; cook in a slow oven. 
Serve cold. 

SPICED BEEF 

Place 2 pounds of beef in a saucepan, to- 
gether with one cupful of wine, the same 
quantity of water, 3 tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar, cinnamoD, pepper, salt, and onions; 
cover the saucepan very tightly ; place over 
a slow fire for two hours ; take the meat 
from the gravy and set aside to cool. 

VINAIGRETTE 

(1 .) Eub 1 teaspoonf ul of sugar, 1 tablespoon- 
f ul of mustard, salt and pepper to taste, into 
the yolks of 2 eggs ; add 3 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, set in a bain-marie, and cook until 
it is of the consistency of cream ; allow to 
cool. Boil 4 pounds of beef brisket until 
quite tender ; when cold, dish on a flat plate 
and mask with the dressing ; sprinkle over 
it chopped parsley, pickles, and a little shal- 
lot. 

(2.) Place a piece of beef in a pan, and stew 
with a little water, a glass of wine, sweet 



MEATS 23 

herbs, an onion, bay-leaves, cloves, salt, and 
pepper; when done, strain the liquor, re- 
move the fat carefully, and add a little vine- 
gar ; serve cold with the sauce. 

COLLARED BBEAST OF LAMB 

Bone the lamb, rub it over with the yolk 
of an egg, grate over it a little lemon-peel, 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; chop up 2 table- 
spoonfuls of capers, 2 anchovies, some pars- 
ley, and a few sweet herbs ; mix with bread 
crumbs, and spread over the lamb; roll it 
up, and boil two hours ; take it up and put 
it into a pickle. 

COLLARED NECK OF PORK 

Bone the neck, and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, chopped sage, a little allspice, some 
pepper and salt, mixed together. EoU it up 
close, and bind very tightly ; roast for an 
hour and a half in a slow oven. 

COLLARED SUCKING PIG 

Bone the pig, rub it well with pepper, salt, 
a few sage leaves and sweet herbs chopped 
fine ; roll up very tightly. Fill a pot with 



24 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

water, and add to it a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a few pepper-corns, a blade of mace, some 
cloves, salt to taste, and a pint of vinegar ; 
when it comes to a boil put in the pig and 
allow it to boil till tender. When done take 
it up and cool ; then place in a vessel and 
pour the liquor over it. 

FORCED pig's EARS 

Parboil 2 pairs of pig's ears; make a force- 
meat of an anchovy, sage, parsley, a quarter 
of a pound of chopped suet, bread crumbs, 
pepper, and a little salt ; mix with the yolks 
of 2 eggs. Eaise the skin of the upper part 
of the ears and stuff them with the force- 
meat. Fry the ears in butter, and drain 
them ; make a rich gravy as follows : a glass 
of sherry, 3 teaspoonf uls of made mustard, 
a little butter, a small onion, a little pepper, 
and some paprika. Put the ears in a stew- 
pan with the gravy, and cover very closely ; 
stew gently for half an hour. When done, 
strain the gravy and reduce to a jelly; 
place the ears on a dish and pour the jelly 



MEATS 25 

over them. When set, garnish with pars- 
ley. 

SUCKING PIG ATT PEEE DUILLET 

Cut off the head, quarter the body, lard it 
with bacon, and season with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, cloves, and mace. Lay some fat 
bacon on the bottom of a pan, place the 
head in the centre, and arrange the quarters 
around it ; add a bay-leaf, a chopped onion, 
a lemon, some carrots, parsley, and the liver ; 
cover all with bacon ; stew for an hour in a 
quart of stock, take it up, put in a stewpan, 
and pour over it a bottle of wine ; simmer 
gently for an hour. Skim the fat off the first 
gravy; strain it; add to it a sweetbread cut 
into slices, some truffles, and mushrooms ; stew 
the whole until it jellies; put the wine in 
which the pig was stewed into the jelly, 
pour it over the pig, and garnish with pars- 
ley. 



poultry 

BRAISED FOWL 

Bone the fowl and stuff with force-meat. 
Fry a few slices of onions in a stewpan; 
add the bones and trimmings of the chicken, 
a bunch of herbs, a few blades of mace, and 
a pint of broth. Cover the chicken with 
slices of bacon, cover the pan very tight- 
ly, and stew for half an hour. Strain the 
braise gravy, and boil it up quickly to a 
jeDy. Glaze the chicken with it, and serve 
cold. 

CHICKEN CHEESE 

Boil two chickens in a quart of water. 
When done take them out of the water and 
remove the bones. Mince the meat very 
fine together with 2 or 3 truflSies, return to 



POULTRY 27 

the water, and cook until almost dry. Pour 
into a deep dish, cover, and place a weight 
on the cover. Put in a cool place. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

Pound half a raw chicken with the bones 
and meat, cover it with cold water, and al- 
low to simmer till the meat is reduced to 
rags and the liquor to about half. Strain, 
and pass through a very fine sieve. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Keturn to the fire and 
simmer for five minutes. Skim, and keep 
in a cool place. 

BRAISED DUCKS 

Dress, singe, and lard with bacon a couple 
of ducks. Season with parsley, mace, cloves, 
pepper, and salt. Lay some slices of fat 
bacon on the bottom of a stewpan ; put in 
the ducks with the breast downward ; cover 
them with slices of bacon; cut a carrot, 
turnip, onion, and celery stalks ; mix with 
mace, four or five cloves, and pepper. Cover 
well, and simmer over a slow fire till the 
breasts of the ducks are of a light brown ; 



28 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

then put in some water, and cook till done. 
Chop very fine parsley, shallot, gherkins, 
capers, and 2 anchovies. Place in a stewpan 
with some of the liquor of the ducks, a little 
aspic jelly, and the juice of a small lemon. 
Boil it. Lay the ducks on a dish, pour over 
them the sauce, and serve cold. The sauce 
will form a glaze over the ducks. 

GOOSE MARINADED 

Bone and stuff with the following mixt- 
ure: 12 sage -leaves, 2 large onions, 2 ap- 
ples ; chop fine and mix with bread crumbs, 
4 ounces of beef suet, a glass of port, half a 
grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, grated lemon- 
peel, and the yolks of 4 eggs. Stuff the 
goose, sew it up, and fry till it is light 
brown. Put into a stewpan with 2 quarts 
of broth, cover closely, and stew for two 
hours. Take out the goose, and allow to 
cool. Take the fat from the gravy and add 
a tablespoonful of lemon pickle, port, an 
anchovy, mace, pepper, and salt. Allow to 
boil till reduced to a jelly, pour over the 



POULTRY 29 

goose, and allow to cool. Garnish with 
beets cut into fancy shapes and sprigs of 
parsley. 

PIGEON CUTLETS 

Cut off the breasts and wings of six 
pigeons ; flatten them out and trim in the 
shape of cutlets. Fry in butter, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, an onion, and 
2 or 3 button mushrooms, and pour over the 
pigeons. Season them with salt and pepper, 
dip in egg and roll in bread crumbs ; fry in 
butter, and serve cold with tartar sauce. 

PIGEONS IN JELLY 

(1.) Boil a calf's foot. Put the broth in a 
pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, pepper, salt, lemon-peel, a slice of lean 
bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them. When 
done, take them out and allow to cool. 
Clarify the jelly with the whites of 2 eggs, 
and strain it through a thick cloth. Put 
the jelly over the pigeons, and garnish. 

(2.) Pick and roast two pigeons. Make a 
jelly as in the preceding receipt, and with it 



30 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

half fill a deep bowl. When the jelly and the 
birds are cold, lay the birds breast down in 
the jelly, and pour the rest of it over them, 
so as to completely cover them. When 
hard, turn out on a flat plate or dish, and 
garnish with parsley. 

PUPTON PIGEONS 

Make some force-meat; roll it out like 
paste, put it in a buttered dish, and lay over 
it thin slices of bacon, squabs, sliced sweet- 
breads, asparagus tips, mushrooms, and hard- 
boiled eggs. Put another layer of force- 
meat over the whole. Bake it, and when 
done turn it out into a dish. Serve cold. 

TURKEY IN JELLY 

Bone a turkey and stuff it with force- 
meat, to which add 6 truffles and 12 mush- 
rooms. Lard it with fat bacon ; tie it up ; 
put in a pan just large enough to hold it. 
Add 2 quarts of strong stock, and stew for 
three hours. Allow it to cool ; take the fat 
off the gravy. Dish the turkey, and pour 
the jelly over it. 



Game 

FLORENTINE HARE 

Bone a hare, except the head ; make a 
stuffing of bread crumbs, the chopped liver, 
half a pound of bacon, a glass of red wine, 
an anchovy, 2 eggs, a little sweet-marjoram, 
thyme, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; fill the 
hare with the stuffing, being careful to force 
it up to the head ; sew the opening, tie in a 
cloth, and boil for an hour and a half in two 
quarts of water ; when reduced to half add 
a pint of port, a tablespoonful of lemon- 
juice, and one of catsup. When done, take 
out the hare and allow to cool ; fill the eyes 
with a little piece of beet, and place sprigs 
of parsley in the mouth. Keduce the liquor 
to half a pint, or until it jellies ; pour over 



32 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

the hare ; garnish with rounds of hard-boiled 
eggs, beets, and sprigs of parsley. 

LARDED HARE 

Bone a hare, lay it flat on a board, and 
season Avith pepper, spices, chopped mush- 
rooms, parsley, thyme, and shallots ; spread 
force-meat over it, roll it up very tightly, and 
lard it with bacon. Put the bones and some 
ham into a stewpan with a few bay-leaves, 
onions, thyme, parsley, a few blades of mace, 
and half a pint of port ; cover the bones with 
fat bacon, put in the hare, and cover it also with 
bacon ; set on a slow fire to simmer for two 
hours ; take out the hare, and allow to cool ; 
glaze with aspic jelly ; garnish with parsley. 

PARTRIDGES A LA FRANgAISE 

Truss the partridges and skewer them; 
cover the breasts with slices of lemon, and 
over them lay some fat bacon ; wrap them 
in paper and tie tightly. Koast for three- 
quarters of an hour ; when done take off the 
paper and serve cold with the juice of Sev- 
ille oranges. 



GAME 33 

POTTED PABTRIDGES 

(1.) Truss the partridges; season inside 
with salt and pepper; place in a stewpan 
lined with slices of lean ham ; add a bunch 
of thyme, some whole pepper, and allspice ; 
cover with slices of ham; add a pint of 
water; cover tightly and stew for two 
hours ; keep in the pot till cold, then put 
into pots with a few whole pepper-corns ; 
pour clarified butter over them and cover 
tightly till used. 

(2.) Clean the partridges, and season with 
mace, allspice, pepper, and salt; lay them 
breast downwards on a pan ; pack the birds 
as close as possible ; add plenty of butter ; 
cover the pan very well and bake. When 
cold put the birds in pots and cover with 
butter. 

POTTED IIABBITS 

Cut up 2 young rabbits, and take the leg 
bones out at the thigh ; pack in a small pan 
and season with finely chopped pepper, 
mace, cayenne, and allspice; add plenty of 

8 



34 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

butter, and bake gently. Keep in the pan 
for two days; then place in the pots and 
cover with clarified butter. 

RABBITS EN GALANTINE 

Bone and flatten out 2 young rabbits ; lay 
force-meat upon them, slices of ham, and egg 
omelets ; roll up tight and fasten them ; lard 
with fat bacon ; cook in a slow oven, and 
serve cold; glaze with aspic jelly colored 
with beet juice; garnish with parsley. 

RABBITS A LA PORTUGUESE 

Bone 2 rabbits, and spread force-meat over 
them. Put the bones in a stewpan with 
some onions, a few sweet herbs, a little mace, 
and a few bay-leaves ; lay the rabbits over 
this and cover them with bacon ; pour over 
a pint of stock and set the pan on the fire ; 
simmer very slowly for an hour ; strain off 
the liquor, remove the fat, and boil the sauce 
to a jelly ; add to it a few truffles chopped 
fine. Serve the rabbits, and when cold glaze 
them with the jelly. 



\DCQCtablCB 

Almost every variety of vegetables can be 
eaten cold ; and as the manner of preparing 
them is not unlike that of salads, but few 
receipts are given. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS 

Boil 6 artichoke bottoms in salt and water ; 
when done take them out and remove the 
chokes ; boil till tender, and allow to cooh 
Spread some anchovy paste over each, and 
mask with a mayonnaise dressing ; garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs and capers. 

ASPARAGUS 

Drain a can of asparagus tips and wash in 
cold water. Fresh asparagus may be used if 
preferred. Place the asparagus on ice, and 
serve with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. 



36 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

BEETS 

Cook and peel the beets ; when cold cut 
into rounds, place in a deep dish, and cover 
with vinegar ; add a little salt. 

OUCUMBEES 

Cut large cucumbers into rounds ; place on 
ice ; serve with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. 
Tomatoes may be prepared in the same man- 
ner. 

omoNs 

Cut the onions into rounds, and pour boil- 
ing water over them ; allow to stand for five 
minutes ; then throw off the water. This 
will do away with the strong odor and bring 
out the delicate flavor. Place the onions in 
a deep dish and cover with vinegar ; season 
with red peppers cut into strips and salt. 



Soucbees 

ANCHOVY BUTTEB 

"Wash, l)one, and pound 6 anchovies, add- 
ing suflBcient butter to make a paste ; scald 
some parsley and rub it through a sieve; 
mix the ingredients well ; spread the butter 
on toast, and garnish with parsley. 

ANCHOVY CANAPES 

Scale and wipe dry some oil-preserved an- 
chovies; cut them into long strips; wrap 
each strip in a piece of pastry, being care- 
ful to close the ends ; fry in very hot lard. 
Dish, and sprinkle a little grated Parmesan 
cheese over them while hot; let cool, and 
garnish Avith lettuce-leaves. 

ANCHOVY CREAM 

Wash, bone, and pound 9 anchovies to- 
gether with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg^ 1 



38 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

tablespoonful of oil, a little cayenne, and a 
few drops of carmine ; when quite smooth 
mix in two tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic, 
and rub through a sieve; add two table- 
spoonfuls of whipped cream, and set aside 
till needed. 

ANCHOVY CROUTONS 

Pound the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 
1 ounce of butter, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy 
essence, and paprika to taste ; pass through 
a very fine sieve, and add 2 boned anchovies 
pounded to a paste ; mix well and spread on 
thin rounds of brown bread or toast. Gar- 
nish with strips of green and red peppers. 

ANCHOVY FINGERS 

Kub two ounces of butter and 6 of flour 
till quite smooth ; add 1 teaspoonful of an- 
chovy essence, cayenne, a well-beaten egg, 
and enough cold water to make a nice light 
paste ; roll out very thin, prick it with a 
fork, cut it in strips, and bake in a moderate 
oven. When cold make sandwiches of the 
fingers, placing anchovy butter between 



BOUCHfiES 39 

them. Brush the top over with a little aspic 
jelly ; before it becomes hard, sprinkle some 
of the fingers with finely minced parsley, 
others with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg 
passed through a sieve, and the remainder 
with the white of the egg finely chopped. 
When the jelly has become quite firm, gar- 
nish with lettuce-leaves and serve. 

CAVIARE BOUOHEES 

Cut small circles of bread and brown them 
in butter. Chop together to a paste some 
cress, nicely picked and dried, and the same 
quantity of butter ; mix well and spread a 
little on each toast ; spread some caviare on 
top of this and garnish with parsley. 

DUCHESS BOUCHEES 

Mix equal parts of curry-powder, powdered 
truffles, bread crumbs, and browned flour; 
add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, grated 
rind of half a lemon, 1 tablespoonful of Chili 
sauce, a little butter, and 1 teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice. Season with salt, red pepper, 
and nutmeg to taste ; stir this over a slow 



40 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

fire until quite brown and thick ; cool, and 
serve on small toasts or crackers. 

DEVILED EGGS 

Boil until hard 6 eggs ; when cool shell and 
divide in half; remove the yolks and mix 
them with the same quantity of deviled ham ; 
refill the whites. Dish in a nest of lettuce- 
leaves, and garnish with beet cut into fancy 
shapes. 

EGGS A LA INFANTA 

Boil until hard 6 eggs ; shell and cut in 
half lengthwise ; remove the yolks, being 
careful not to break the whites. Pound the 
yolks smooth, and mix with half a pint of 
mayonnaise dressing. Make a nest of lettuce- 
leaves, and place the whites on it ; fill them 
with the yolks and mayonnaise. Garnish 
with capers and a beet cut into fancy 
shapes. 

PARISIAN CANAPES 

Out small oblongs of stale bread, and fry 
in butter to a light brown ; place on a piece 
of paper to cool — the paper will also absorb 



BOUCH^ES 41 

all the butter. Spread each piece with an- 
chovy butter, and place on each a boned an- 
chovy; sprinkle over them finely chopped 
olives mixed with a little chopped chives. 



IDies and iDattfes 

The cost and trouble of making patty- 
cases is such that it is far preferable to buy 
them at the caterers' ; especially is it desira- 
ble, as then the cook will not run the risk of 
spoiling the paste. 

Pie pastry is not so easily spoiled as patty 
or puff paste, and as this is not obtainable, 
the cook will have to tempt fate and try her 
own skill at making it herself. 

CHICKEN PATTIES 

Cut the white meat of a chicken into small 
pieces. Place in a saucepan half a pint of 
stock and 2 ounces of lean ham chopped fine ; 
let simmer. Mix a spoonful of butter and 
one of flour. Boil the broth to about half 
the original quantity ; strain into a half-pint 



PIES AND PATTIES 43 

measure and fill up witK cream; stir this 
into the flour and butter; when thick add 
the chicken. Keep at the boiling-point for 
five or six minutes ; set aside to cool ; when 
cold fill the patty-cases ; garnish with sprigs 
of parsley. 

CHESHIRE POKK PIE 

Skin a loin of pork ; cut into small steaks ; 
season with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. Make 
a pie-crust, and fill with a layer of pork, 
then one of apples, pared and cored, and 
sugar enough to sweeten it, then another 
layer of pork ; pour over half a pint of white 
wine, and cover all with a little butter before 
covering the pie. Serve cold. 

HAM-AND-VEAL PATTIES 

Chop 6 ounces of lean veal, 3 ounces of ham ; 
put into a stewpan w^ith 1 ounce of butter 
rolled in flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 
tablespoonf uls of veal stock, nutmeg, a little 
lemon -peel, paprika, salt, and lemon -juice. 
Stir over fire, and when cold fill the patty- 
cases. 



44 CJOLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

MINCE PATTIES 

Chop a cold veal kidney and some fat ; add 
an apple, orange, candied lemon-peel, fresh 
currants, a little wine, cloves, brandy, and 
sugar. Fill the patty-cases, bake, and serve 
cold. 

OX-CHEEK PIE 

Line a deep dish with puff-paste. Boil 
the ox-cheek with seasoning ; cut into small 
pieces ; lay in the dish, and throw over them 
1 ounce truffles, the yolks of 3 hard-boiled 
eggs, a cup of mushroom pickles, half a cup 
of asparagus tips, and several force-meat 
balls. Season with pepper and salt, and fill 
up the pie with the gravy in which the cheek 
was boiled. Cover it with the crust, and 
place in the oven ; when done allow to cool. 

PRINCESS PATTIES 

Fill the patty-cases with the following 
mixture: place 1 pint stock broth, half a 
pint of milk, seasoning, a little grated nut- 
meg, and thyme in a saucepan ; boil for five 
minutes, then add a little roux and the liquor 



PIES AND PATTIES 45 

from 1 tin of mushrooms ; boil until it be- 
comes thick. Chop the meat of a fowl, half 
a pound of lean ham, and mushrooms finely, 
then add to the sauce ; simmer a little while ; 
then cool. 

SAVOEY E0LL8 

Place in a saucepan 1 ounce of butter, a lit- 
tie shallot, sweet herbs, and parsley chopped 
fine ; fry slowly for five minutes ; then add 
1 pint broth, some seasoning, the liquor from 
1 tin mushrooms, and 2 pounds of rump 
steak ; simmer for an hour, then take out the 
steak, and thicken the gravy with a little 
roux ; boil three minutes. Chop the mush- 
rooms, steak, and 4 hard-boiled eggs finely ; 
stir gently into the sauce; allow to cool. 
EoU out some puff-paste very thin and cut 
into four-inch squares ; place a little of the 
mixture in the centre of each, touch the 
edges with egg, fold over, and pinch the 
edges together; place on a baking-tin ai;id 
bake a light brown. Serve cold. 



46 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

SAUSAGE ROLLS 

Cut three-quarters of a pound of pork and 
3 ounces of fat into small pieces and mince, 
adding salt, pepper, mace, and allspice ; spread 
on a board, and add 3 ounces of bread crumbs 
and seasoning; mix well. EoU puff-paste 
out to about a quarter of an inch, cut into 
squares, put some of the mixture on each 
square, wet the edges, fold over the meat, 
press the edges together, brush over with the 
yolk of an eggy and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

sheep' S-HEAD PIE 

Lay a sheep's head in salt and water over- 
night ; wash it thoroughly with warm water ; 
take out the soft bones from the nostrils ; 
boil it till it is tender; chop the meat, to- 
gether with half a pound of bacon and 1 
hard-boiled egg ; then add salt, pepper, some 
finely minced parsley, with half a pint of the 
liquor in which the head was boiled ; put in 
a pie-dish, and cover with a short crust ; bake 
in a moderate oven. 



PIES AND PATTIES 47 

SWEETBREAD PIE 

Lay a puff-paste at the bottom of a dish. 
Cut the sweetbreads into small pieces, and 
place them in the dish, then add some arti- 
choke bottoms, truflles, asparagus tips, fresh 
mushrooms, and the yolks of hard-boiled 
eggs. Season with salt and pepper. Pour 
in some rich veal gravy ; thicken with cream 
and flour. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve 
cold. 

SHROPSHIRE PIE 

Cover a dish with a good puff-paste. Chop 
together a rabbit and 1 pound of fat pork ; 
season with salt and pepper ; lay the rabbit 
and pork in the dish. Parboil the liver of 
the rabbit, and beat in a mortar together 
with the same quantity of bacon and a few 
sweet herbs ; season with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg; mix it with the yolk of an egg; 
make into balls and throw into the pie, add- 
ing to it a pint of white wine and some nut- 
meg. Bake in a quick oven for an hour. 
Serve cold. 



48 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

SWEET PATTIES 

Chop the meat of a calf s foot, boiled, to- 
gether with 2 apples, an ounce of candied 
orange and lemon-peel, some fresh peel, and 
lemon-juice; mix with grated nutmeg, the 
yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and 4 
ounces of currants. Fill the patty-cases, 
bake, and serve cold. 

TURKEY PATTIES 

Mince some of the white meat of a turkey, 
and season with lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, 
pepper, cream, and a little butter ; place over 
the fire, and thicken with a little flour. 
When cold, fill the patty-cases and serve. 

VEAL PIE 

Chop a little ham, some cold veal, and 
beef suet together with an onion, some pars- 
ley, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, mace, paprika, 
and bread crumbs. Bind with an egg or 
two. Fill the patty-cases ; place in a quick 
oven. Serve cold. 



fiBb patties 

OYSTER PATTIES 

Boil 2 dozen oysters, strain, bread, and 
cut them into small pieces ; place in a stew- 
pan with 1 ounce of butter rolled in flour, 
half a gill of cream, grated lemon-peel, and 
half the oyster liquor ; season with paprika, 
salt, and lemon-juice. Stir over the fire for 
five minutes, and fill the patty-cases. 

LOBSTER PATIIES 

Boil a lobster, pick out the meat from 
the tail and claws, chop it fine, place in a 
stewpan with a little of the spawn pound- 
ed in a mortar till perfectly smooth. Add 
1 ounce of fresh butter, half a gill of cream, 
paprika, salt, a teaspoonf ul of anchovy es- 
sence, a little flour and water. Stew for 

4 



50 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

five minutes. Fill the patty-cases, and al- 
low to cool. 

PRAWN PATTIE8 

To 1 pint of broth add a tablespoonf ul of 
anchovy sauce, pepper, salt, and some grated 
nutmeg ; boil for ten minutes, then add a 
little roux ; boil and thicken. Add a pint of 
prawns ; let come to a boil ; when cold fill 
the patty -cases. Garnish with parsley. 

SALMON PATTIES 

Take half a can of salmon ; flake and mix 
with half a pint of cream thickened with 
a spoonful of butter rolled in corn -starch; 
season with salt, pepper, anchovy sauce, and 
a few olives chopped fine. Allow to cool, 
and fill the patty-cases. 



Cold Sauces an& Dressinds 

There is nothing more disagreeable to the 
palate than the taste of cold grease or fat ; 
bearing this in mind, the cook will always 
remove the fat from the sauces. 

In making dressing for salads it is always 
necessary that all the ingredients should be 
thoroughly incorporated before the dress- 
ing is added to the salad. To obtain this 
result satisfactorily it is necessary to mix 
the dressing in a cool room, and to have all 
the ingredients as cold as possible. When 
the dressing has assumed the proper consist- 
ency it should be placed on the ice until the 
very moment of sending to the table. 

ALBERT DRESSING 

Mix well 4 tablespoonfuls of olive -oil. 



62 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

1 tablespoonful of wine, 1 tablespoonful of 
cider vinegar, a little paprika, and salt to 
taste. Place on the ice till wanted. 

ASPIC SAUCE 

Eub smooth the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs ; add 1 ounce of salt, a quarter of a 
pint of oil — by degrees — till it becomes 
thick; then add 1 teaspoonful of anchovy 
essence and 2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar. Mix well and set on the ice. 

CREAM DRESSING 

To the juice of 1 lemon add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of drawn butter, 1 teaspoonful of French 
mustard, the beaten yolks of three raw eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream, and salt to taste; 
beat smooth and set in a bain-marie until it 
becomes a thick cream. 

CUCUMBER DRESSING 

Kemove the seeds from two large cucum- 
bers ; grate and drain ; add to them 1 table- 
spoonful of finely chopped fresh red pepper, 
and mix with half a pint of mayonnaise 
dressing. 



COLD SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 53 

DUTCH SAUCE 

Grate a cupful of horseradish; boil in a 
quarter of a pint of water ; strain the water 
into 3 ounces of butter rubbed smooth with 
3 ounces of flour; add to the horseradish, 
and stir to a smooth paste; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and the yolks of 6 eggs 
well beaten, with 3 tablespoonf uls of cider 
vinegar ; salt to taste. 

GBEEN SAUCE 

Take equal quantities of tarragon, chervil, 
and cress ; wash well ; add the yolks of 4 
hard-boiled eggs and 2 anchovies ; pound all 
the ingredients well in a mortar; strain 
through a very fine sieve, and add olive-oil 
and lemon-juice as in making mayonnaise ; 
season with pepper, salt, and mustard. 

HOESERADISH SAUCE 

Wash and scrape clean a large root of 
horseradish ; grate fine. Put in a dish, and 
add 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
and salt ; mix well together until the sugar 



64 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

is dissolved. This sauce will keep good for 
two or three weeks. 

MINT SAUCE 

Wash, pick, and mince the mint ; place in 
a sauce-bowl with some sugar and vinegar ; 
stir until the sugar is dissolved. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Chill the yolk of a raw egg on ice ; then 
put the yolk on a very cold plate, and add 
a little salt and a gill of olive-oil, drop by 
drop, stirring constantly in the same direc- 
tion ; when it forms a cream, add a teaspoon- 
ful of French mustard and a tablespoonf ul 
of cider vinegar; stir all the time to keep 
from curdling. Lemon -juice or tarragon 
vinegar may be used instead of the cider 
vinegar. 

MINT AND PARSLEY SAUCE 

Take equal quantities of mint and parsley ; 
mince, and add melted butter, a little lemon- 
juice, and salt to taste. 

NETHERLAND SAUCE 

Put 6 tablespoonf uls of cider vinegar in a 



COLD SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 55 

saucepan ; allow to boil until reduced to half 
the quantity ; when cold, add the yolks of 3 
eggs, well beaten, a little nutmeg, and 5 
ounces of butter. Place on a slow fire until 
thick, stirring constantly; then put in a 
bain-marie, add 3 ounces of butter, and beat 
to a froth. Cool on ice. 

PLAIN OR FRENCH DRESSING 

Mix well together 3 tablespoonfuls of 
olive -oil, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, salt, 
and a little pepper. Keep cool until wanted. 

RAVIGOTE SAUCE 

Mince together cresses, chervil, tarragon, 
a few celery stalks, and 2 bay-leaves ; add a 
tablespoonful of capers, 2 anchovies, salt, 
and pepper ; pound all the ingredients in a 
mortar, and add the yolk of a raw egg, a lit- 
tle oil, and vinegar; beat to a cream, and 
add a little mustard. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Take the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, a 
teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 
teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, mustard. 



66 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

and a teaspoonf ul of catsup ; mix well, and 
add 4 tablespoonf uls of oil, and 1 tablespoon- 
f ul of cider vinegar ; beat the whole to a cream. 

SAUCE FOB COLD MEATS 

Grate a cupful of horseradish ; add a ta- 
blespoonful of sugar, and cover with vine- 
gar ; add salt and a tablespoonf ul of French 
mustard. 

SATJCE FOR FISH 

Pound a tablespoonful of grated horserad- 
ish, 4 shallots, a clove of garlic, a salt-spoon- 
ful of mustard, and one of celery salt ; add a 
little paprika. Pound well, and mix with 
half a pint of cucumber vinegar and a quar- 
ter of a pint each of shallot and horseradish 
vinegar. Let stand for three or four days ; 
strain, and bottle the liquor. 

TARTAR SAUCE 

(1.) Mince 2 shallots, a little chervil, and tar- 
ragon ; put in a vessel with mustard, a glass- 
ful of vinegar, salt, pepper, and a little oil ; 
stir constantly. If too thick, add a little 
vinegar. 



COLD SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 67 

(2.) Chop fine, and add 4 or 5 olives, a 
gherkin, and a tablespoonful of capers to 
half a pint of mayonnaise dressing; mix 
well and serve. 

VINAIGEETTE SAUCE 

Mix together thoroughly 2 tablespoonfuls 
of olive-oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, 
salt, and a little paprika ; add a tablespoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley, and 2 finely 
chopped olives. 



Salads 

Lettuce, cresses, parsley, etc., are always 
used in salads ; if not in their composition, 
they are used to garnish the dish, and, of 
course, should be as crisp as possible. Salad 
greens should be kept on ice, so that they 
will retain their freshness. 

Before making the salad the greens should 
be picked and placed in cold water until 
ready to use, when they should be thorough- 
ly dried and placed in the dish. 

AMERICAN SALAD 

Wash and pick 1 quart mixed salad; let 
drain ; dry with a cloth. Cut very fine, and 
place in a dish, making a hollow in the cen- 
tre. To 2 eggs add 1 teaspoonf ul of made 
mustard and salt ; beat well, and add half a 



SALADS 59 

cup of oil and the same quantity of vinegar. 
Stir in half a cup of cream ; pour the sauce 
over the salad. Cut two apples in thin 
slices, lay them around the salad, and gar- 
nish with beet. Bone 6 sardines and cut 
them lengthwise ; take each half and roll up 
in a strip of lettuce, and stand them in the 
centre of the salad. 

ANCHOVY SALAD 

Eemove the bones, heads, and tails of 6 
anchovies. Wash two heads of lettuce, cut 
them small, and place on a dish. Add 6 
button onions chopped finely, parsley, sliced 
lemon, and anchovies. Pour over the juice 
of a lemon mixed with a tablespoonf ul of 
oil. 

CSAB SALAD 

Boil 25 hard-shell crabs for about twenty 
or twenty-five minutes. When cool remove 
the top shell and tail ; quarter the remain- 
der, and pick out the meat carefully with a 
fork. The large claws should not be over- 
looked, nor the fat which adheres to the 



60 COLD DISHES FOB HOT WEATHER 

shell. Cut up an amount of celery equal in 
bulk to the crab meat ; mix both together 
with a plain salad dressing. Put in a salad- 
bowl, and mask with a mayonnaise dressing ; 
garnish with crab claws, shrimps, and hard- 
boiled eggs. 

COD SALAD 

Soak the cod overnight. Boil separately 
potatoes, carrots, and onions ; chop fine, and 
add to the cod, which has been previously 
cooked and shredded. Make a dressing of 1 
beaten egg, chopped parsley, fresh marjoram, 
oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper to taste. Pour 
the dressing over the salad and garnish with 
rounds of hard-boiled egg. 

SALMON SALAD 

(1.) Out up a pint of cold boiled potatoes. 
Take equal quantities of cabbage, cucum- 
ber pickles, and canned salmon sufficient to 
make, after chopping, a pint in all. Chop 
the cabbage and pickles together, very fine. 
Remove all bits of bone and skin from the 
salmon, and pick into pieces. Mix together 



SALADS 61 

with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, salt, and 
half a teaspoonful of dry mustard, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of oil, and 4 of vinegar; when 
smooth stir into the cabbage and cucumber, 
then stir in the potatoes and fish, and serve. 

(2.) Chop 3 cold boiled potatoes and mix 
with 1 can of salmon; rub smooth the 
yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs ; season to tOfSte 
with mustard, pepper, and salt ; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream and 4 of vinegar. Pour 
over the fish and potatoes. 

(3.) Place in a salad-bowl 6 stalks of cel- 
ery, sliced, and 1 pound of canned salmon ; 
arrange neatly; add mayonnaise dressing, 
and garnish with parsley and rounds of 
hard-boiled eggs. 

(4.) Take cold salmon cut into squares; 
dress in a dome in the centra of the dish, 
mask with a mayonnaise dressing, sprinkle 
whole capers over it, and encircle the base 
with rounds of hard-boiled eggs, and around 
this wreathe lettuce-leaves. 



62 COLD DISQES FOR HOT WEATHER 

SARDINE SALAD 

(1.) Take 3 heads of lettuce, 1 box sar- 
dines, 1 egg, half a cup of milk, half a tea- 
spoonful of mustard, seasoning, a little roux, 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of 
anchovy paste, a pinch of sugar, and a boiled 
potato. Put the milk and seasoning in a 
pan with enough roux to make a thick 
sauce ; let cool, and add to it the vinegar, 
mustard, anchovy paste, and half the oil of 
the sardines ; mix well, and keep in a very 
cold place. Wash and dry the lettuce, place 
on a dish, and press together with the hands, 
and add the potato, cut small; pour the 
sauce over it ; lay the sardines on this, and 
ornament with the yolks of hard-boiled eggs 
passed through a sieve, and the whites 
chopped fine; finish with rings and dia- 
monds of beets. 

(2.) Take 6 sardines, remove the skin and 
bone, and pour lemon -juice over them. 
Place in a salad-bowl with a crisp head of 
lettuce; chop up 2 hard-boiled eggs, add 



SALADS 63 

to the fish, and serve with a plain dress- 
ing. 

BEEF SALAD 

Cut into pieces an inch in length half a 
pound of cold meat ; take 2 heads of lettuce, 
and wipe on a smooth cloth ; place them in 
a salad-bowl ; add the beef. Chop up a 
sweet Spanish pepper and add to the salad. 
Prepare a plain dressing, pour it over the 
salad, and mix gently. 

ITALIAN CHICKEN SALAD 

Make a dressing of the yolks of 3 hard- 
boiled eggs pounded fine, equal quantities of 
mustard and paprika, a pinch of powdered 
sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Simmer over the fire, but 
do not allow to boil. Take the white meat 
of two chickens, and separate into flakes; 
pile it in the middle of a dish, and pour the 
dressing over it. Cut up two heads of let- 
tuce, and arrange around the chicken. On 
top of the lettuce place the whites of the eggs, 
cut into rings, and lay so as to form a chain. 



64 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

BABBIT SALAD 

Cut up the meat of 2 roast rabbits ; place 
in a bowl and cover with a plain dress- 
ing; add a teaspoonful of minced salad 
herbs, and let stand for four hours. Put in 
a salad-bowl 3 heads of lettuce ; drain the 
meat and add to the lettuce. Put into a 
plate 1 teaspoonful of French mustard ; thin 
with 1 tablespoonful of the dressing taken 
from the meat, and add slowly to this 1 pint 
of mayonnaise dressing, and pour over the 
salad. 

RUSSIAN SALAD 

Chop and mix carefully together 2 ounces 
of roast chicken, and the same quantity of 
ham, beef-tongue, beef, and mutton, 4 truf- 
fles, 12 anchovies, 3 stalks of celery, 2 heads 
of lettuce. Mix with 8 tablespoonfuls of 
sauce tartare, and serve. 

8ALADE DE VEAU 

Take some cold veal, mince, and soak in 
oil and vinegar for two hours. Put into a 
bowl with 1 teaspoonful of mustard and 2 



SALADS 65 

teaspoonfuls of pounded anchovies; add 
some oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, chopped 
pickles, and whole capers, pour over the veal 
and serve. 

SALPIOON DE CARNE 

(1.) Cut equal portions of cold meat and 
cold boiled potatoes into half-inch cubes; 
mix well, and dress with plain salad dress- 
ing, adding chopped parsley and fresh mar- 
joram. Over this place rounds of onions 
which have been previously soaked in vine- 
gar for two hours. 

(2.) Cut cold meat into half-inch cubes; 
boil and chop an onion and add to it the meat. 
To this add olives, fresh marjoram, and pars- 
ley. Dress with a plain salad dressing and 
serve. 

SALPIOON DE GUATirAS 

This is made in the same manner as the 
preceding receipt, using tripe instead of the 
meat. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Drain 1 can of asparagus tips ; throw into 



66 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

cold water; drain again immediately, and 
wipe dry. Put into a salad-bowl, and pour 
over it French dressing. 

BEET SALAD 

(1.) Choose 6 large beets ; bake them in a 
slow oven ; peel and cut into small squares. 
Peel and cut into rounds 6 button onions, 
pour boiling water over them, and allow to 
stand for ten minutes. Throw off the water 
and repeat. Mix in a salad-bowl with the 
beets and chopped parsley. Pour French 
dressing over it and serve. 

(2.) Cut into thin slices 4 small beets ; boil 
2 white onions, cut fine ; add to the beets, 
and serve with a mayonnaise dressing. 

BREAD SALAD 

Cut into pieces about half an inch square 
a stale loaf of bread; chop equal parts of 
cold boiled potatoes, tomatoes, and cucum- 
bers ; season with a little grated onion, 1 ta- 
blespoonful of oil, the juice of 2 lemons, pep- 
per and salt, and chopped parsley ; mix with 



SALADS 67 

the bread; let stand for a quarter of an 
hour before serving. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

(1.) Out a small cabbage as if for cold 
slaw. Make a dressing of the following in- 
gredients : 3 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream, 

3 of melted butter, half a teaspoonf ul of pep- 
per, salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of made 
mustard, 1 cup of cider vinegar ; stir well to- 
gether, all but the cream, and cook over the 
fire until they come to a boil. Set the dress- 
ing aside to cool; when cold add the cream, 
and pour over the cabbage. 

(2.) Take a small cabbage and shred ; add 

4 stalks of celery chopped fine. Place in a 
salad-bowl and pour over it a pint of may- 
onnaise dressing. Garnish with parsley. 

(3.) Chop up the cabbage quite fine ; place 
in a saucepan and pour boiling water over it, 
and add a little salt. Let stand for half an 
hour ; wash in cold water and dry thorough- 
ly; when dry place in a salad-bowl and add 
hard-boiled eggs and parsley chopped fine. 



68 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHEB 

Serve with plain salad dressing and add 
some olives. 

Carrot salad is made in the same manner 
as described in the preceding receipt. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

(1.) Boil the cauliflower; when cold tear 
apart, dry on a soft cloth, and put in a salad- 
bowl. Pour over it half a pint of mayon- 
naise dressing. Garnish with lettuce-leaves 
and rings of hard-boiled eggs. 

(2.) Boil the cauliflower until cooked, be- 
ing careful not to overdo it. Chop it fine, 
and add chopped hard-boiled eggs and pars- 
ley. Garnish with olives and beets cut in 
fancy shapes. Pour French dressing over all. 

CRESS SALAD 

Take equal parts of cresses and celery 
stalks; cut up, place in a salad-bowl, and 
sprinkle with sweet herbs ; pour over this a 
mayonnaise or plain dressing and serve very 
cold. 

EGG-PLANT SALAD 

Boil the egg-plant until cooked ; peel and 



SALADS 69 

cut into small pieces ; add the juice of a lem- 
on, 1 tablespoonful of oil. Mix well and 
serve. 

GERMAN SALAD 

Boil a cauliflower in well-salted water un- 
til quite tender. When sufficiently cooked 
place in a sieve to drain. When cold divide 
the cauliflower into small pieces. Mask with 
mayonnaise dressing and garnish with beets 
cut into fancy shapes. 

GEAPE-FEUIT EN MAYONNAISE 

Wash and dry 2 heads of lettuce, and make 
a nest in the salad-bowl ; sprinkle over a lit- 
tle oil and vinegar, and season with salt and 
pepper. Peel the grape-fruit and separate 
into sections; split the membrane so that 
the pulp of the fruit can be extracted ; sep- 
arate into small bits and toss into the pre- 
pared nest. Mask with mayonnaise dressing 
and set in a cool place. 

JARDINIEEE SALAD 

Take equal quantities of cold cooked pota- 
toes, turnips, string-beans, beets, celery, and 



70 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

tomatoes. Put in a salad-bowl, and add 
chopped pickle, hard-boiled eggs, olives, ca- 
pers, and shred lettuce; pour over a may- 
onnaise dressing, and garnish with lettuce- 
leaves. 

KALE SALAD 

Strip the inside leaves from the kale, place 
in a salad-bowl, and pour over the whole a 
French dressing. Garnish with cresses. 

LENTIL SALAD 

Cook the lentils in salted water, and drain. 
Put the lentils in a bowl, and add 1 chopped 
onion; stir in 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley; add some chopped egg and shred 
lettuce; season with salt, pepper, oil, and 
vinegar, and decorate with parsley. 

LIMA-BEAN SALAD 

Boil the Lima beans in water with a little 
salt, a bunch of parsley, and an onion until 
quite tender ; drain. Mix with 2 tablespoon- 
f uls of oil, 4 tablespoonf uls of vinegar, a lit- 
tle chopped thyme and mint. Serve quite 
cold. 



SALADS 11 

LETTUOE SALAD 

Wash the lettuce thoroughly in cold water 
and dry with a soft cloth. Separate the 
leaves with the hand ; otherwise they will 
become flabby. Place in a salad-bowl and 
dress with French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

PEA SALAD 

Cook the pease in salted water; when done 
put aside to cool. Add to them a hard-boiled 
egg and a boiled white onion, chopped fine. 
Pour over them a dressing made of oil, 
lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. 

PERSIAN SALAD 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices a quar- 
ter of an inch thick. Arrange in a salad- 
bowl and place on the ice. Chop 2 hard- 
boiled eggs; add 1 teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, a little chervil, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
pepper, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 8 
tablespoonfuls of oil. Mix thoroughly and 
pour over the potatoes; stir together, and 
serve. 



72 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

PRINCE SALAD 

Cut a pint of cold boiled potatoes into 
small squares; add the same quantity of 
pickled cauliflower, minced fine. Mix 4 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 
of celery salt, 1 teaspoonf ul of made mustard, 
and 1 ounce of butter. Heat to the boil- 
ing-point; pour hot over the potatoes and 
cauliflower, stir lightly, and serve very cold. 

8ALADE ANDAL0U8E 

Chop fine 1 Spanish onion and a large cu- 
cumber; peel 3 tomatoes, cut into small 
pieces, take out the seeds, and strain the 
juice from them. Dress in a salad-bowl with 
salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and let stand 
for an hour. Make a mound of grated bread 
crumbs, all white, and arrange the salad 
above it, following the shape. Garnish with 
laurel-leaves and olives. 

SALADE DE ORESSON 

Take fresh tomatoes of a bright red, re- 
move the seeds, pass the pulp which comes 
from the seeds through a sieve. Blend with 



SALADS 73 

this liquor the yolks of 2 boiled eggs mixed 
with the yolk of a raw egg, and add salt, 
pepper, and mustard. Take the water- 
cresses, carefully cleaned and picked ; dress 
and season each separately ; then blend the 
two well. Do not mix until just before 
serving. Surround the tomatoes and cresses 
with lettuce -leaves. Pour a mayonnaise' 
dressing in the centre. 

SALADE DES HAEICOTS BLANCS 

Cook and strain white beans, and season 
with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, a tablespoon- 
ful of cream, a tablespoonful of French 
mustard. 

SPINACH SALAD 

Place a quart of spinach leaves in a salad- 
bowl with a Spanish onion cut up fine and a 
little mint. Pour over half a pint of plain 
salad dressing, and garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs. 

STBING-BEAN SALAD 

(1.) String a pint of beans ; boil in salt 
water with an onion and a sprig of parsley. 



74 COLD DISHES TOR HOT WEATHER 

Place the beans in a salad-bowl, sprinkle 
with minced salad herbs, pour over a plain 
dressing, and serve very cold. 

(2.) Cut the beans in four; place in a 
saucepan with cold water, and put on the 
fire; when the water comes to a boil the 
beans will be cooked ; let cool. Dress with 
a plain salad dressing. A little boiled onion 
may be added. 

SWEET-POTATO SALAD 

Boil 3 large sweet - potatoes ; cut into 
squares ; add 2 stalks of celery, cut small. . 
Pour over the following dressing ; 3 table- 
spoonfuls of oil, 2 of vinegar, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Garnish with olives and 
parsley. 



Creams 

APRICOT CREAM 

Put 10 apricots in a pan with a gill of 
water and 5 ounces of sugar; cook; when 
done allow to cool ; beat half a pint of cream 
very stiflf, add the apricots passed through 
a very fine sieve, and 4 ounces of sugar ; dis- 
solve half an ounce of isinglass in a little hot 
water, mix with the cream, stir well, and 
pour into a mould. 

BANANA CREAM 

Take 5 bananas, skin and pound them to 
a pulp together with 5 ounces of sugar; 
beat half a pint of cream to a stiff froth ; 
add the bananas, half a glass of brandy, and 
the juice of two lemons ; mix well ; add half 
an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little hot 



76 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

water, beat for a few minutes, fill the mould, 
and set in a cool place. 

CAVALIER CREAM 

Melt 2 ounces of chocolate in half a gill 
of milk; beat three-quarters of a pint of 
cream to a stiflf froth, add 8 ounces of sugar, 
half a glass of maraschino, the chocolate, the 
juice of 2 lemons, and a box of gelatine dis- 
solved in half a gill of boiling water ; mix 
well ; pour into a mould, and stand on the 
ice to set. 

CREAM A LA CARDINAL 

Pick and clean a quart of raspberries ; put 
them in a basin, add half a pound of sugar, 
bruise with a wooden spoon, and pass through 
a fine sieve ; mix the pulp with a pint of 
cream, a few drops of carmine, and a box 
of gelatine dissolved in a small quantity of 
boiling water; stir well, pour into a wet 
mould, and stand on the ice till quite firm ; 
serve with a custard poured over it. 

EBONY CREAM 

Stew 2 pounds of French prunes in a little 



CREAMS 77 

water ; pass them through a sieve ; add half 
an ounce of gelatine melted in a little water; 
a quarter of a pound of sugar ; allow to boil ; 
pour into a mould; when cold turn it out 
and serve with whipped cream. 

HUNGARIAN CREAM 

Put 1 pint of milk, half a pound of sugar, 
and 8 eggs into a pan ; stir over the fire a 
few minutes; add half announce of isin- 
glass ; take from the fire and stand in a pan 
of cold water; add a glass of maraschino, 
4 ounces of candied cherries, and half a cup 
of cream; stir till nearly set; pour into a 
mould, and stand on ice. 

NORMANDY CREAM 

Put half a pint of cream into a pan to- 
gether with half a pint of milk, 1 box of 
gelatine, sugar to the taste, and a little va- 
nilla ; stir well ; do not allow to boil ; wet a 
mould, and arrange candied fruits in the 
bottom ; pour in some of the cream, and set 
aside to cool ; when firm lay in some more 
candied fruits and add more cream ; repeat 



78 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

till the mould is quite full ; place on the ice 
to set. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

Pour a little melted raspberry jelly in the 
bottom of a mould and allow it to set ; soak 
a quarter of an ounce of gelatine in a gill of 
milk; stir it over the fire till thoroughly 
melted; beat a pint of cream to a froth; 
add a quarter of a pound of sugar and half 
a pound of chopped preserved pineapple; 
stir in the gelatine ; when the raspberry jelly 
is set, pour in the cream. 

PRUSSIAN CREAM 

Beat half a pint of cream to a froth ; add 
sugar to taste, and the juice of 2 lemons ; 
beat 4 eggs ; add to them a glass of maras- 
chino; mix with the cream, and beat; stir 
in a little isinglass melted in water ; have a 
mould standing in ice-water, pour a little of 
the jelly around it ; sprinkle with blanched 
pistachios and candied cherries; when set 
pour in the cream, allow to set, and turn 
out on a dish. 



Cbarlottes 

APRIOOT CHARLOTTES 

Butter a mould. Cut a stale loaf into fin- 
gers, and a round the size at the bottom of 
the mould ; fry them in butter and arrange 
them in the mould. Pare and stone a pound 
and a half of apricots ; boil them with one 
pound of sugar for half an hour. Pour into 
the mould, cover with slices of bread dipped 
in butter, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Turn out on a dish and sift powdered sugar 
over it. 

CHARLOTTE - RUSSE 

Dip a mould in water ; line it with small 
sponge-cakes; put glace cherries on the 
bottom ; mix a tablespoonf ul of sugar with 
a little lemon -juice and brandy. Add 2 



80 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

tablespoonfuls of cream, and whisk to a 
stiff froth ; stir in a little gelatine dissolved 
in milk. Fill the mould, cover with cake, 
and stand in a cool place to set. 

CORNUCOPIAS 

Mix well together 3 eggs, half a pound of 
sugar, half a pound of flour, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of water, 1 teaspoonf ul of baking-powder. 
Drop in tablespoonfuls on a pan, and bake 
in a moderate oven ; when done, take out, 
and while still hot roll in the form of a cor- 
nucopia, and hold in shape till cold ; fill the 
cornucopias with whipped cream. 

GOOSEBERRY CHARLOTTE 

Pick 2 pounds of gooseberries. Wash them 
well, and boil with half a pound of sugar un- 
til reduced to a pulp. Dissolve a little gela- 
tine in half a cupful of hot water; mix it 
with the gooseberries, and pass them through 
a fine sieve. Line a mould with small sponge- 
cakes and pour in the gooseberries. Stand 
aside to set. Turn out on a dish, and serve 
with cream. 



CHARLOTTES 81 

ORANGE CHARTREUSE 

Make a quart of calf's-foot jelly, flavor it 
with orange, and keep in a liquid state; peel 
4 oranges, and divide into small sections, be- 
ing careful not to break the inner skin ; place 
the oranges in a flat dish and sprinkle pow- 
dered sugar over them, and set aside for two 
hours. Pour about a teacupful of the jelly 
into a plain mould ; let set, and arrange upon 
it a layer of oranges ; pour over these some 
jelly ; allow it to set ; then some more oranges, 
and so on till the mould is quite full. When 
quite firm turn out on a dish, and surround 
the base with a border of whipped cream, and 
sprinkle the latter with chopped pistachios. 

PINEAPPLE TRIFLE 

Make small holes in a stale sponge-cake, 
and pour over it as much of the syrup of a 
pineapple as it will absorb; chop a few slices 
of the pineapple, put them around the bottom 
of the cake, and pour cream over the whole ; 
sprinkle with blanched almonds and pista- 
chios cut very small, and candied cherries. 

6 



82 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

PORCUPINE 

Put a pound of raspberries into a pan with 
a pound and a half of apples, pared, cored, 
and sliced ; add enough powdered sugar to 
sweeten it, and boil on a slow fire till the 
apples are soft and pulpy ; then pass through 
a sieve ; stir in 2 ounces of dissolved gela- 
tine, and pour into an oval mould; when 
firm turn out on a dish ; stick it over with 
thinly cut almonds, to imitate the quills of 
a porcupine ; pour over whipped cream and 
serve. 

RASPBERRY GATEAU 

Cut a sponge-cake into slices half an inch 
thick ; place them in a dish ; pour over them 
a pound and a half of raspberries and cur- 
rants stewed with half a pound of sugar ; 
allow to stand for half an hour; pile the 
cake in the centre of a dish; whip some 
cream to a froth ; sweeten with sugar and 
flavor with wine ; pour it over the cake, and 
send to the table. 



CHARLOTTES 83 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE 

Line a mould with lady's -fingers; cover 
the bottom with a layer of jelly of some 
bright color. Make a filling as follows : put 
a pint of thick cream into a pan together 
with an ounce of. dissolved gelatine and a 
pound of picked strawberries ; mix thorough- 
ly and pour into the mould ; cover the top 
with some more fingers, place on the ice to 
set ; serve with whipped cream. 



bellies 

APRICOT JELLY 

Place a tin of apricots in a pan with half 
a pound of sugar and allow them to boil; 
strain oflP the syrup ; take out the kernels and 
remove the skin from the apricots ; allow to 
cool ; add to a pint of the syrup half a box 
of gelatine dissolved in a little water ; boil, 
and clarify with the whites of eggs ; pour a 
little jelly into the bottom of a mould, and 
when it is beginning to set place over it 
some of the apricots ; add more jelly and 
apricots till the mould is full ; set in a cool 
place, and serve with whipped cream. 

CLARET JELLY 

Mix together half a pound of powdered 
sugar, 1 bottle of claret, the juice and rind 



JELLIES 85 

of a lemon, a small pot of currant jelly, and 
half a box of gelatine ; boil for ten minutes; 
add a little brandy; strain, and allow to 
cool. 

CHERRY JELLY 

Soak a box of gelatine in a pint and a 
half of water; add the juice of 4 lemons, 
half a pound of sugar, and the whites of 2 
eggs beaten in a little water ; stir over the 
fire till it boils ; pass through a jelly-bag un- 
til clear, then add half a glass of noyau, a 
few drops of essence of almonds, and color 
with a few drops of cochineal ; pour into a 
mould. 

MUSCAT JELLY 

Soak 1 box of gelatine in water, add the 
juice of 2 lemons, half a pound of sugar, 
and the whites of 2 eggs beaten in a little 
water; place the pan on the fire and stir 
gently till it boils; take it up, and pass 
through a sieve till quite clear; stand in 
cold water, and when nearly set stir in a 
little elder-flower water and half a pound of 



86 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

muscatel grapes ; pour into the mould, and 
stand aside to set. 

ORANGE JELLY 

Make a jelly the same as the claret jelly ; 
free the oranges from the pith, and cut into 
small pieces with a sharp knife ; when the 
jelly begins to set, stir in the oranges ; place 
on the ice to set. 

SANDRINGHAM JELLY 

Soak 1 box of gelatine in cold water for 
an hour ; add the juice of 3 lemons, half a 
pound of sugar, and the whites of eggs 
beaten in a little water; stir over the fire 
till it boils ; let it settle, and pass through a 
jelly -bag till quite clear; add a glass of 
brandy, an ounce of pistachios, and a table- 
spoonful of boiled rice; stir the jelly till 
nearly set, then pour into the mould. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY 

Pour a little jelly into a mould, place a 
layer of strawberries over it, pour over 
some more jelly, and when set place over 
it another layer of strawberries ; repeat till 



JELLIES 87 

the mould is full, the last layer being of 

jelly- 

TUTTI-FKUTTI JELLY 

Put half a box of gelatine to soak in half 
a pint of cold water ; dissolve in a pint of 
boiling water; add the juice of 3 lemons; 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; strain ; 
when it begins to set, put a layer of jelly 
on the bottom of a mould, then a layer of 
sliced bananas, then a layer of jelly, next 
a layer of sliced oranges, another layer of 
jelly, a layer of peaches; the last layer 
should be of jelly. 

WINE JELLY 

Soak half a box of gelatine in half a pint 
of cold water, then add a pint of boiling 
water, and stir till dissolved ; add the juice 
of 3 lemons ; strain ; add some sherry, and 
when nearly set stir in a quarter of a pound 
of grapes, skinned and stoned; pour into 
the mould and set on the ice to harden. 



Tce^-creams and MateMces 

ALMOND CREAM 

(1.) Blanch a half-pound of sweet almonds 
and a half-dozen bitter almonds. Pound to a 
paste in a mortar with a little water or milk 
to prevent oiling. Boil a quart of milk, pour 
it over the almonds and allow to stand until 
cold, when it must be strained through a 
cloth, squeezing it very hard to extract all 
the taste of the almonds. To this milk of 
almonds add a pint of cream and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, and freeze. 

(2.) Blanch 1 pound of sweet almonds and 
roast them, being careful not to burn them. 
Pound them to a paste in a mortar with a 
little rose-water. Pour a quart of boiling 
milk over them, and allow to stand until 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 89 

cold, when they must be strained as in the 
preceding receipt. Now make a caramel of 
a half-pound of sugar, with which the cream 
is to be sweetened. To make the caramel 
put the sugar in a porcelain-lined saucepan 
with just enough water to moisten it, and 
place over a quick fire, being careful not to 
burn it. When the sugar is melted and of 
a delicate brown mix with a cup of boil- 
ing milk, stirring constantly until dissolved. 
Add this and a pint of cream to the milk of 
almonds. Freeze. 

APRICOT CREAM 

Mash 18 ripe apricots with a half-pound of 
sugar ; add a quart of cream, and rub through 
a sieve. Add a few of the bruised kernels, 
and freeze. 

BLACKBERRY CREAM 

Make a custard of the yolks of 4 eggs and 
a quart of milk. Set aside to cool. Take a 
quart of picked blackberries and mash them 
with a half-pound of powdered sugar. Let 
it stand half an hour. Then strain, and add 



90 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

this juice to the custard, mixing it well. 
Add sugar to taste. Freeze. 

BISCUIT CREAM 

Take half a dozen sponge biscuits and soak 
in a quart of cream ; add the yolks of 3 eggs, 
well beaten, and a half-pound of sugar. Put 
it over the fire to thicken, but do not allow 
it to boil. Take from the fire and whisk 
until cold; add a spoonful of maraschino, 
and freeze. 

BROWN-BREAD CREAM 

Grate as fine as possible stale brown 
bread ; take 2 tablespoonf uls and soak in a 
quart of cream for two or three hours, and 
sweeten to taste. Freeze. 

BURNT CREAM 

Take a cup of sifted sugar ; moisten and 
stir over the fire to a fine brown ; add a pint 
and a half of cream ; mix in the yolks of 4 
eggs, well beaten, and 3 ounces of sugar. 
Place over the fire to thicken ; do not allow 
to boil. Take from the fire, whisk until cold, 
and freeze. 



ICECREAMS AND WATER-ICES 91 

CHOCOLATE CREAM 

Take half a pound of chocolate and break 
in small pieces ; melt it over the fire in a cup 
of water ; add three ounces of sugar and a 
pinch of salt. When it is dissolved and well 
cooked add a quart of cream and a teaspoon- 
f ul of essence of vanilla. Withdraw from 
the fire, whisk until cold, and freeze. 

CINNAMON CREAM 

Take an ounce and a half of the best pow- 
dered cinnamon and pour a quart of boiling 
milk over it. Let it stand for an hour, and 
strain through a thick cloth. Add 1 ounce 
of gum-arabic, dissolved in hot water, and 
sweeten with half a pound of sugar. Freeze. 

COFFEE CREAM 

(1.) To a quart of boiling milk add the 
yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten, and a half- 
pound of sugar. Place over the fire to 
thicken, but do not allow it to boil. With- 
draw from the fire and mix with it a cupful 
of very strong coffee. When cold, freeze. 

(2.) Take 4 ounces of freshly roasted coffee- 



92 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

beans and pour a quart of boiling milk over 
them. Allow to stand until cold ; then strain 
through a napkin ; add a half -pint of whipped 
cream and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. 
Freeze. 

OOCOANUT CREAM 

Take a fresh cocoanut and grate it. Pour 
over it a quart of boiling milk. When cold, 
strain through a cloth, squeezing it very hard 
to get all the milk from the cocoanut. Add 
to this milk a half-pint of whipped cream, 
and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. 
Freeze. 

LEMON CREAM 

(1.) Make a syrup of three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and a cup of water ; to this 
add the strained juice of 2 lemons and the 
grated rind of 1. Beat 4 yolks lightly and 
add to the syrup, stirring over the fire until 
it thickens. Withdraw from the fire, and 
when cold mix with a quart of cream. If 
not sweet enough, add more sugar. Freeze. 

(2.) Beat well the yolks of 6 eggs; mix 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 93 

gradually with this a quart of boiling water 
and the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons. 
Sweeten to taste, and stir this one way over 
the fire till it thickens, but do not let it boil. 
Add half a wineglass of sherry and a spoon- 
ful of brandy. Stir till cold, and freeze. 

MELON CREAM 

Take 2 good -sized muskmelons and cut 
the meat into small pieces. Cover with a 
pound of powdered sugar and stand in a cool 
place for an hour. Place over the fire, and 
cook for five minutes, taking care it does not 
bum. Pass through a sieve, and when cold 
mix with a quart of cream, and freeze. 

MILLE FRXHTS 

Take a spoonful each of preserved straw- 
berries, raspberries, apricots, currants, green- 
gages, ginger, gooseberries, plums, and or- 
ange-peel cut into small pieces. Sweeten a 
quart of cream with half a pound of sugar ; 
add to it a glass of noyau and the fruit. 
Freeze. 



94 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 
ORANGE CREAM 

Scrape lightly, with a pound of lump- 
sugar, the rinds of 6 oranges. To this sugar 
add 3 cups of water and the strained juice 
of the oranges. Place over the fire, and boil 
for five minutes. Beat lightly the yolks of 
6 eggs, and mix with the syrup. Return to 
the fire, and whisk lightly until it thickens ; 
take from the fire, and add a glass of orange- 
flower water. When cold, freeze. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

Grate a fresh pineapple, and mix with a 
pint of syrup made from one pound of sugar. 
Add to this a quart of cream, and rub 
through a sieve. Before grating the pine 
take from it two or three slices, which must 
be cut into small dice and added to the 
strained cream before freezing. 

PISTACHE CREAM 

Beat to a paste in a mortar a half-pound 
of pistache nuts with a spoonful of brandy. 
Mix with a quart of cream and the yolks of 
4 well-beaten eggs. Sweeten with half a 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 95 

pound of sugar, and place the mixture over 
the fire, stirring gently until it thickens. 
When cold, freeze. If you wish to color this 
cream, put to it a spoonful of spinach- juice. 

BASPBEBBY CBEAM 

Eub a quart of the fruit through a hair 
sieve to extract the seeds ; then mix with a 
quart of cream, sweeten with half a pound 
of sugar, and freeze. 

BATAFIA CBEAM 

Take 4 ounces of ratafia biscuits; pour 
over them 2 spoonfuls of noyau, the same 
quantity of sweet wine, the strained juice 
of a lemon and an orange. Sweeten with 
half a pound of powdered sugar, and beat 
the mixture with a quart of cream. Freeze. 

TEA CBEAM 

Pour a quart of boiling milk over an ounce 
of tea -leaves and cover for five minutes. 
Strain in a bowl over a caramel made of 2 
ounces of sugar. Beat the yolks of 8 eggs 
with half a pound of powdered sugar and a 
pinch of salt. Mix with the milk and place 



96 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

the whole over the fire, stirring gently until 
it thickens. When cold, freeze. 

GINGEB CBEAH 

Take 4 ounces of preserved ginger cut 
into small slices, 2 spoonfuls of the ginger 
syrup, 4 yolks of eggs, and a quart of cream. 
Place over the fire till it thickens, but do not 
boil. Sweeten with half a pound of sugar; 
whisk until cold, and freeze. 

SPANISH CREAM 

Boil 2 quarts of milk with a pound of 
sugar, the grated rind of a lemon and of an 
orange. Withdraw from the fire, and when 
cold add to it half a wineglass of orange- 
flower water. Freeze. 

APPLE ICE 

Pare and core 18 juicy apples ; cut them 
into small pieces and cook in 3 pints of 
water with 2 slices of lemon -peel. When 
soft, pass the pulp through a hair sieve and 
sweeten with a pound of sugar; add the 
strained juice of a lemon. Set aside to cool, 
and freeze. 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 97 

AURORA ICE 

Beat in a mortar a half-pound of sweet 
and half an ounce of bitter almonds ; mix 
the same with a quart of water and strain 
through a cloth. Make a syrup of a pound 
of sugar and boil pretty high; mix with 
almond water and boil until clear. Add the 
yolks of 4 well-beaten eggs, and stir gently 
until thoroughly mixed. When cold, freeze. 

CHERRY ICE 

Wash, pick, and stone two quarts of cher- 
ries ; bruise them well ; cover with a pound 
of powdered sugar and set aside for an hour. 
Then pour a quart of boiling water over 
them and strain through a cloth. Just before 
freezing add a glass of kirsch, if liquor is not 
objectionable, and a quarter of a pound of 
candied cherries cut in halves. 

MUSKMELON ICE 

Take the pulp of three good -sized melons 
and bruise well with a fork. Add to this a 
half-pound of sugar and set aside for half an 
hour. Then mix well with a quart of water 



98 C50LD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

and pass through a cloth. Before freezing 
take the pulp of another melon, cut into 
small squares, and add to the mixture, with 
a very little grated nutmeg. 

LEMON ICE 

Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and a 
pint of water; boil in it 2 or 3 slices of lemon- 
peel. Take from the fire and add the strained 
juice of 6 lemons, a quart of water, and an 
ounce of gum-arabic dissolved in water. 
Before freezing take out the lemon-peel and 
add the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a froth. 

ORANGE ICE 

Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and a 
pint of water. Add to this the strained 
juice of 12 oranges, a wineglass of orange- 
flower water, and fresh water to make 2 
quarts in all. Take 2 oranges, peel and sep- 
arate in sections, from which take all skin 
and seeds, cut into small pieces, and add just 
before freezing. 

PEACH ICE 

Take a quart of ripe peaches, and pour 



ICECREAMS AND WATER-ICES 99 

over them a quart of boiling water ; allow 
them to stand only long enough to loosen 
the skins. Throw off the water and rub off 
the skins ; cut into small pieces ; cover them 
with half a pound of powdered sugar, and set 
aside in a cool place for half an hour. Pass 
through a hair sieve, adding a quart of water. 
If not sweet enough, add more sugar; if too 
sweet, a little lemon-juice. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

Grate 1 good-sized pineapple or 2 small 
ones; add to the grated pine 3 pints of 
water, half a pound of sugar, and if the pine 
is very sweet the strained juice of 1 or 2 
lemons. Strain through a cloth, and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 

Pick 3 pints of ripe berries ; crush them 
with a silver fork, and cover with a pound of 
powdered sugar. Set aside in a cool place 
for half an hour, then add to the fruit 3 pints 
of water. Pass through a fine hair sieve or 
cloth, and just before freezing add a pint of 
picked berries. 



100 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 
WATERMELON ICE 

Take the meat of a large ripe melon and 
mash it with a fork. Add to it a pint of 
water, a half-pound of sugar, the strained 
juice of a lemon, and half a teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon. Pass through a cloth, 
and freeze. If not sweet enough, add more 
sugar. 






Cafies and fifscuits 

ALMOND CAKE 

Beat to a cream half a pound of butter; 
add half a pound of powdered sugar, half a 
pound of currants, 4 well-beaten Qggs, and 
sift in 4 ounces of powdered rice and 6 
ounces of flour; butter a tin and fill with 
alternate layers of the paste and of the fol- 
lowing icing : Pound to a paste one-quarter 
ounce of bitter and half a pound of sweet 
almonds; mix with the whites of 2 eggs 
and a little powdered sugar. The last layer 
should be of cake mixture ; bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

CHERRY CAKE 

Beat 4 eggs, and add 4 ounces of sugar 
and 6 ounces of flour ; melt 4 ounces of but- 



102 C50LD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

ter over the fire, taking care that it is not 
too hot; add it to the mixture, stir in 4 
ounces of preserved cherries cut in halves, 
and 1 teaspoon ful of baking-powder; pour 
into a buttered tin and bake for about an 
hour. 

DATE CAKE 

Take 2 cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 cupful of 
molasses, 1 cupful of butter, half a cupful of 
sweet wine, half a cupful of milk, 3 eggs, 1 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of 
cloves, a little nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 
1 pound of dates stoned and chopped, and 
enough flour to mix to a paste. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

NIJT CAKE 

Take 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 cups 
of sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups 
of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 
pint of mixed nuts, blanched and chopped ; 
flavor with vanilla. Put in a buttered tin 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS 103 

PRINCESS CAKE 

Take 6 eggs, half a pound of sugar, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded almonds, 6 
ounces beaten butter, 6 ounces of flour, 2 
tablespoonf uls of cream, and 1 tablespoonf ul 
of liqueur. Beat up the eggs with the sugar 
in a porcelain pot, set over a moderate fire, 
and continue beating ; add the other ingre- 
dients one by one ; stir in a cupful of stoned 
cherries. Take up from the fire, beat a little 
while, and bake in a well-buttered mould in 
a moderate oven. 

EICE CAKE 

Mix half a pound of sifted rice flour with 
half a pound of powdered sugar; add 6 well- 
beaten eggs; season with a little orange- 
flower water and a drop or two of essence of 
lemon. Beat the whole for twenty minutes, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

SAVOY CAKE 

Take 10 eggs, 1 pound of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of flour, the grated rind 
of a lemon, and a drop or two of essence of 



104 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

lemon. Beat the whites and the yolks sep- 
arately ; add to the yolks the sugar, and mix 
with the whites ; stir in the flour, and put in 
the mould. Bake in a moderate oven for 
about an hour and a quarter. 

SPONGE-CAKE 

Beat the whites of 5 eggs to a stiff froth ; 
beat the yolks well, and mix them with the 
whites ; stir in half a pound of sugar and a 
third of a pound of flour ; do not beat, as the 
cake will become heavy. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

Take half a pound of flour, half a pound 
of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a 
pound of blanched almonds, one and one- 
half pounds of citron, half a grated cocoa- 
nut, the whites of 8 eggs, and 1 teaspoonful 
of baking-powder. Mix very carefully ; put 
into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a 
slow oven for about two and a half or three 
hours. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS 105 

ALMOND CAKES 

Take 1 pound of flour, 1 pound of pow- 
dered sugar, 3 ounces of sweet almonds, and 
2 ounces of bitter almonds, blanched and 
beaten; mix the ingredients well, together 
with the yolks of 3 eggs and the white of 1 ; 
butter the tin and place them in rough lumps. 

BATH CAKES 

Take 1 pound of flour, into which rub half 
a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, 1 
ounce of caraway seeds, 4 tablespoonfuls of 
brandy, 4 tablespoonfuls of sweet wine, and 
enough rose-water to make it into a paste ; 
make it up into thin cakes, wash them over 
with rose-water, sift powdered sugar over 
them, and bake on a tin. 

BRISTOL CAKES 

Mix half a pound of flour with a quarter 
of a pound each of powdered sugar and 
butter, and 4 yolks and the whites of 2 eggs ; 
when thoroughly mixed add half a pound of 
dried currants, and stir them well into the 
mixture. Butter a tin, drop the mixture 



106 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

from a tablespoon to form the cakes, and 
place in a brisk oven. 

CINNAMON CAKES 

Beat 6 eggs with a glass of rose-water; 
add a pound of powdered sugar, a quarter of 
an ounce of cinnamon, and enough flour to 
make a paste. EoU out and cut into small 
cakes ; bake them on paper. 

CRACKNEL 

Mix 8 ounces of flour and 8 ounces of 
sugar ; melt 4 ounces of butter in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of wine; make a paste with 4 
beaten eggs ; roll out as thin as paper, cut 
with a glass, moisten with the white of an 
eggj and dust with powdered sugar. 

KENT DROP-CAKES 

Take a pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter, half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
currants. Make into a paste with 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water, a glass 
of brandy, and one of sweet wine. Mix 
quickly, and drop the mixture through a fun- 
nel on the tins ; bake for five or six minutes. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS 107 

NUT CAKES 

Beat 1 pound of walnuts with the whites 
of 3 eggs, add one and one-half pounds of 
sugar, mix well, and add the Avhites of 3 
eggs ; lay them out about the size of a nut, 
and cook in a slow oven. 

QUEEN CAKES 

Take 1 pound of sugar, 1 pound of flour, 
1 pound of butter, 1 pound of currants, the 
yolks of 10 eggs, and 4 tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. Work it with the hand for half an 
hour, put into buttered pans, and sift pow- 
dered sugar over them. Place in the 
oven. 

BOLL GINGEBBBEAD 

Rub together half a pound of flour, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, a teaspoonful of ginger, a 
teaspoonf ul of allspice, a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cinqamon, the grated rind of a lemon, 
and as much syrup as will make it into a 
paste. Spread very thin on the tins and 
bake in a slow oven. When done cut in 



108 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

squares, and while still warm roll it over a 
stick till cold. Remove and keep in a dry 
place. 

SHORT CAKES 

Eub into a pound of flour 4 ounces of but- 
ter, 4: ounces of powdered sugar, 1 egg, and 
a tablespoonful or two of cream, so as to 
make it into a paste. When mixed add cur- 
rants to half and caraway seeds to the rest ; 
roll it thin, cut, and bake on tins. 

BlSCim DROPS 

Take three eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of rose- 
water, a few caraway seeds ; whip Avell to- 
gether till it becomes a light froth ; add half 
a pound of flour ; mix well and drop them 
small ; ice them with a little sugar, and bake. 

CHOCOLATE BISCUITS 

Add to 4 well-beaten yolks 2 ounces of 
chocolate, scraped very fine, and 6 ounces 
of sugar ; mix well, and add the whites of 6 
eggs beaten to a froth ; when well mixed stir 
in little by little 6 ounces of flour ; put the 
biscuit on white paper or in small paper 



CAKES AND BISCUITS 109 

moulds; sprinkle a little powdered sugar 
over them, and bake in a moderate oven. 

PALAIS-BOYAL BISCUITS 

Take 1 pound of eggs, 1 pound of sugar, 
half a pound of flour ; beat the whites and 
the yolks separately ; stir the yolks into the 
whites; add the sugar, the grated rind of a 
lemon, and the flour ; drop in square tins, 
sift powdered sugar over them, and bake in 
a quick oven. 



XTarte an& iPfes 

ALMOND CAKE 

Blanch and pound smooth 1 pound of sweet 
almonds with a little rose-water; stir in 3 
weU-beaten eggs, 2 ounces of warm butter, a 
little grated lemon -peel, a tablespoonful of 
lemon-juice, and 3 ounces of sugar; mix well. 
Line some patty-pans with puflf-paste, put in 
the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. 

ALMOND CUPS 

Blanch and pound 1 pound of sweet al- 
monds, adding a little rose-water ; mix with 
three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar ; 
stir the paste over a gentle fire; make cups 
of the almond paste; bake them in a cool 
oven ; when done, fill them with custard, and 
serve. 



TARTS AND PIES HI 

ANGELICA PIE 

Take an equal quantity of peeled and cored 
apples and of angelica stalks, also peeled and 
cut into small pieces ; boil the apples in water 
enough to cover them, to Avhich add lemon- 
peel and sugar; boil some sugar till reduced 
to a syrup, and strain ; place the sj^rup on 
the fire together with the angelica and boil 
for ten minutes; line a plate with puff-paste, 
over which put a layer of apples, then one of 
angelica, till the plate is full ; pour in some 
syrup, put on the cover, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

LEMON TABTS 

Mix together half a pound of powered 
sugar, 2 eggs, the crumbs of a sponge-cake, 
the juice and grated rinds of 2 lemons ; beat 
smooth and place in tins lined with puff- 
paste ; bake a light brown. 

PEACH COBBLER 

Line a dish with plain pastry, and pour 
into it freshly stewed peaches. Cover the 
dish with pastry, and bake a nice brown. 



112 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 
PRESERVED FKUTT PUFFS 

Cut into squares a good puff-paste, and lay 
a small quantity of jam on each ; double them 
over and pinch the edges ; lay them on sheets 
of paper, ice them, and bake for about twenty 
minutes. 

SANDWICH PASTRY 

EoU out two pieces of paste very thin; 
spread apricot or raspberry jam over one of 
them ; cover with the other, and bake ; cut 
it into squares and glaze. 

SMALL PASTRY 

EoU out a piece of puff-paste ; brush it over 
with egg; sprinkle over it some chopped 
almonds and granulated sugar; cut into 
shapes, and bake in a moderate oven. 

SWEETMEAT ROLL 

EoU a strip of puff-paste to an eighth of an 
inch in thickness ; spread with jam ; roll, and 
pinch the ends to keep the sweetmeats from 
coming out. Glaze with egg, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 



ALMOND PUDDING 

Blanch and pound very fine half a pound 
of sweet almonds. Beat up 8 eggs ; mix 1 
pound of sugar and three-quarters of a pound 
of butter to a cream; stir in the almonds, 
then the eggs ; add a little rose-water and a 
pint of cream ; place in a pudding-dish with 
a ring of puff-paste, and bake for three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 

AMBEB PUDDING 

Beat together three-quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar and 1 pound of butter till 
reduced to a cream; add the well-beaten 
yolks of 15 eggs, and enough candied orange 
to give it a color and to flavor it ; line a dish 
with a crust the same as for pie, pour in the 

8 



114' COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

mixture, cover it with crust, and bake it in a 
slow oven. 

APRICOT PUDDING 

Pass 6 ripe apricots through a sieve, and 
add 1 pint of cream, 4 ounces of sugar, 2 
eggs, 4: yolks, and 1 ounce of melted butter ; 
mix well, and bake in a dish lined with puff- 
paste, and glaze the top. 

CARROT PUDDING 

Grate half a pound of raw carrots and 1 
pound of sponge-cake ; mix the well-beaten 
yolks of 8 eggs and the whites of 4, together 
with half a pint of cream, half a pound of 
melted butter, half a pint of wine, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of orange-flower water, a grated 
nutmeg, and sugar; stir well, and if too 
thick add a little more cream. Lay a puff- 
paste over the dish, and bake it an hour. 

DUTCH PUDDING 

Mix 2 pounds of flour with 1 pound of 
butter melted in half a pint of milk ; add the 
whites and yolks of 8 eggs beaten separate- 
ly, half a pound of powdered sugar, a pound 



^PUDDINGS 115 

of currants, a few chopped almonds, and a 
little candied orange-peel; add 1 cake of 
compressed yeast; cover it, and allow to 
stand for an hour or two ; bake in a wide 
flat dish for an hour. 

GINGER PUDDING 

Soak 12 sponge biscuits in a pint of cream, 
add the yolks of 10 eggs, 2 ounces of pre- 
served wet ginger, cut in pieces, a spoonful 
of the syrup, and 2 ounces of melted butter ; 
bake in a dish lined with tart paste, or cook 
in a bain-marie. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING 

Stew green gooseberries till they become 
a pulp, pass them through a sieve, and when 
cold add to them 6 ounces of butter, 4 ounces 
of sponge biscuit, powdered sugar to taste, 4 
well -beaten eggs, and a glass of brandy; 
bake in a dish with a paste border. 

JAM PUDDING 

Mix together equal quantities of creamed 
butter, sugar, and raspberry jam, with 3 weU- 
beaten eggs ; nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves 
to taste ; bake in a paste-lined dish. 



116 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 
MACAROON PUDDING 

Fill the bottom of a dish with macaroons, 
soak them in wine, and pour over them a 
custard made of 6 eggs, a pint and a half of 
cream, and a little milk ; add to it candied 
fruits to taste ; bake in a slow oven. 

NORTHUMBERLAND PUDDINGS 

Make a thick batter of flour and sweetened 
milk ; when cold and firm beat it and add to 
it 4: ounces of melted butter, 4 ounces of cur- 
rants, 2 ounces each of candied lemon and 
orange-peel, and a little brandy. Butter tea- 
cups, and bake the puddings in them; when 
done, turn out and allow to cool. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING 

Beat up 8 eggs, place them over the fire 
in a bain-marie, and add half a pound of 
powdered sugar, half a pound of butter, and 
some grated nutmeg; keep stirring tQl it 
thickens; set in a basin to cool; place a 
puff-paste around the edges of a dish, pour 
in the mixture, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



PUDDINGS 117 

WELSH PUDDING 

KC • Melt half a pound of butter in a bain- 

ee marie, and gradually add to it the beaten 

III yolks of 8 eggs and the whites of 4 ; sweeten 

^ Avith powdered sugar, and season with lemon 

and nutmeg ; bake in a dish bordered with 

paste. ^^ 



^ama and Jellies 

APPLE MABMALADE 

Pabe and cut the apples into small pieces ; 
weigh and put them into a pan, adding half 
a pound of sugar to each pound of apples ; 
add a stick of cinnamon and the juice of a 
lemon ; place on a brisk fire ; when the ap- 
ples are reduced to a pulp, stir the mixture 
till of a proper consistence, and set aside to 
cool. 

APRICOT CHEESE 

Pare and stone the apricots, and place in a 
bain-marie ; when soft pass them through a 
sieve ; weigh the pulp, and allow three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar to each pound of 
pulp; place in a pan and stew for three- 
quarters of an hour. 



JAMS AND JELLIES 119 

APRICOT JAM 

Pare and stone the apricots ; sprinkle pow- 
dered sugar over them, in the proportion of 
a pound of sugar to each pound and a half of 
apricots, and allow them to stand for twelve 
hours. Blanch the stones, and put them 
with the fruit atd sugar in a pan; allow 
them to simmer for an hour ; take out the 
apricots; boil the syrup a little longer; re- 
move the scum; put the apricots into the 
jars, and pour the syrup over them. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

Pick 6 pounds of raspberries ; place them 
in a pan with a pint and a half of currant- 
juice; boil for twenty minutes; skim, and 
add 4 pounds of sugar ; boil for an hour, be- 
ing careful to remove the scum as it rises ; 
put into jars, and cover. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY 

Allow 1 pound of sugar to every pint of 
strawberry juice. The juice should be boiled 
about twenty minutes before the sugar is 
added, and about fifteen minutes after it is 
added. 



SanOwfcbes anO Sardr? fl>ot6ete 

Sandwiches should be very small and 
dainty, searcely more than a mouthful, and 
always tastefully arranged on the dish. 
When sandwiches are rolled they should be 
tied with fancy ribbons and piled on the 
plate in log-cabin style ; otliers may be cut 
into fancy shapes with cutters, such as stars, 
crescents, circles, etc. 

ANCHOVY SANDWIOHES 

One sandwich loaf, 3 anchovies, 4 ounces 
of butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, seasoning, and a 
little nutmeg. Cut the loaf very thin ; bone 
the anchovies, and pound them with the 
butter, egg, seasoning, and nutmeg; spread 
a little on each slice of bread, roll them, dish 
in a pyramid, and garnish with parsley. 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORY MORSELS 121 
ANCHOVY CREAM-TOAST SANDWICHES 

Fry some slices 9f bread in boiling lard, 
dry and spread with anchovy paste; make a 
thick mayonnaise sauce, add to it some 
chopped capers, chervil, queen olives, and 
a bit of shallot. Spread on the fried bread, 
form into sandwiches, and serve with cresses. 

AMERICAN SANDWICHES 

Chop half a pound of ham very fine, to- 
gether with 2 chopped pickles, mustard, salt 
and pepper to taste. Beat 6 ounces of but- 
ter to a cream, add the chopped ham, and 
mix well. Cut thin slices of bread, spread 
with the mixture, press together, cut into dia- 
monds, and garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN CREAM SANDWICHES 

Mix a cupful of white chicken meat and 
celery, chopped very fine, with a cup of 
milk. Add a boiled onion mashed, and 
thicken with 2 tablespoonf uls of corn-starch. 
It must be quite thick. When cooked and 
boiling, stir carefully into it the whites of 2 
eggs beaten very stiff ; add salt to taste. Place 



122 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

in a bain-marie ; do not allow to boil. Stir 
in the juice of half a lemon and a tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Mould the day before; cut 
into slices and place between thin slices of 
buttered bread. 

^LTTE SANDWICHES 

Take cold beef, boiled tongue, ham, and 
cold roast turkey in equal proportions ; chop 
very fine, and stir well together in a bowl. 
Chop up pickled gherkins and stuffed olives. 
Make a salad dressing and pour over the 
whole ; mix well, and place between thin but- 
tered slices of bread. 

FRENCH SANDWICHES 

Chop 1 cup of white meat of a chicken, 
3 olives, 1 gherkin, and a tablespoonful of 
capers ; add half a pint of mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and thin with a tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. Spread on thin slices of bread, roll, 
and tie with ribbons. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES 

Mince hard-boiled eggs very fine, spread 
evenly upon neatly cut pieces of buttered 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORY MORSELS 123 

bread; grate over the egg a little prime 
cheese, add salt and paprika to taste. 

SPANISH SANDWICHES 

Bone 12 oil-preserved anchovies, and cut 
into strips about an inch long. Make into 
a paste with 1 ounce of capers and a sprig 
of parsley, adding a dash of paprika, half a 
teaspoonf ul of mixed mustard, 1 tablespoon- 
f ul of tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoonf ul of 
oil, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, and salt. 
Mix smooth; chop the whites of the eggs. 
Butter thin slices of bread, spread with the 
paste and sprinkle over them the chopped 
whites. Trim and tie with narrow colored 
ribbons. 

SALMON SANDWICHES 

One can of salmon, half a pint of mayon- 
naise dressing, 1 tablespoonf ul of capers, and 
a little chives. Chop the salmon, chives, and 
capers together very fine. Mix in the dress- 
ing, and spread on thin slices of bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Chop together boned sardines, 2 hard- 



124 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

boiled eggs, 5 olives. Mix well, adding some 
of the oil of the sardines, lemon-juice, French 
mustard, and salt. Spread on thin slices of 
bread, and roll. 

PARISIAN SANDWICHES 

A quarter of a pound of cooked beef 
tongue, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, 2 
ounces of butter, 3 truffles, seasoning, and 
water-cress. Pound the ham and tongue in 
a mortar; when quite smooth add the season- 
ing, nutmeg, and butter; mix well together. 
Chop the truffles very fine, and add them to 
the mixture. Spread on thin slices of bread, 
sprinkle a few cresses over the paste, and pair. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES 

Half a pound of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of mixed mustard, 3 tablespoonfuls of oil, a 
little paprika, salt, the yolk of 1 egg. Mix 
together very smooth and set on the ice. 
Chop some ham and tongue in equal propor- 
tions, and blend all well together. Cut the 
bread very thin, spread with the mixture, 
and roll. 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORY MORSELS 126 
TOOTHSOME SANDWICHES 

One pound cooked chicken, 4 ounces of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of ground mace, half a nutmeg, and a 
slice of ham. Chop the chicken and the 
ham with the butter, add the spices, and 
pound to a paste. Spread on thin slices 
of bread, pile on a dish, and garnish with 
parsley. 

VEAL SANDWICHES 

To 1 cup of chopped veal and 1 hard- 
boiled egg add 2 ounces of butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of catsup, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix well, and spread on thin slices of bread. 

VALENTINE SANDWICHES 

Chop together 1 cup of chicken meat, 6 
button mushrooms, add salt and pepper, and 
half a pint of mayonnaise dressing. Spread 
on thin slices of bread, cut into the shape of 
hearts, and garnish with parsley. 

ZEPHYRETTE SANDWICHES 

Eub to a paste 1 small Neuf chdtel cheese, 
1 ounce of butter, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 



126 COLD DISHES FOR HOT W£ATH£B 

eggs, and half a teaspoonful of paprika. 
Mix with the whites of the eggs, and spread 
on zephyrette biscuits or on thin slices of* 
bread. 



THE END 



REFERENCE-BOOKS FOR WOMEN 



THE EXPERT WAITRESS. By Amnb T. Spbikostkkd. lCmo» 
Cloth, $1 00. 

OUR HOME PETS: How to Keep Them Well and Happy. By 
Oliyb TiioiiMB MiLLKB. IllaBtratecL 16mo, doth, $1 25. 

THE TECHNIQUE OF REST. By Auna C. Bbaokktt. 16mo, 
Cloth,. 75 cents. 

WHAT TO EAT : HOW TO SERVE IT. By Cubibtink Tkbhunb 
Hkbbiok. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASY. By Cubistimb Tbbuunr Hkb- 
biok. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

CRADLE AND NURSERY. By Cubibtinb Tbbuumk Hxbbiok. 
16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

FAMILY LIVING ON $500 A YEAR. By Juliet Cobbon. 16mo, 
Cloth, $1 25. 

THE HOUSE COMFORTABLE. By Aonrb Bailry Obmbkxb. 
16IU0, Cloth, $1 00. 

CHOICE COOKERY. By Cathabinr Owxn. ICmo, Cloth, $1 00. 

MANNERS AND SOCIAL USAGES IN AMERICA. By Mrs. 
JouN Subbw^ood. 16nio, Cloth, $1 25. 

PRACTICAL COOKING AND DINNER-GIVING. By Maut F. 
Hbnvkkbon. lUastrated. 12nio, Water-proof Cov^r, $1 60. 

DIET FOR THE SICK. By Mabt F. Hkndbbson. Illastrated. 
12mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

MOTHERS IN COUNCIL. 16mo, Cloth, 90 cents. 

MONEY-MAKING FOR LADIES. By Ella Ropman Chubou. 
16mo, Cloth, 90 cents. 

PuBLiSHRD BY HARPER & BROTHERS, New York. 

For sale by all bookseUers, or will be tent by the publishers, postpaid, on 

receipt of price. 



A 



IMcfffc-/^/^. 




I^IN^S ^N Iv^H^ 



^ 




75' 



I*%>lllr« 



i^^ 



t <i 




Pllilli 




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

®jprp* ©opgrfajjjft $0—- 'I— . 

Shelf. 13. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 



/ 



YSAGUIRRE AND LA MARCA 




I M AY IV- 1896 






mz£ %J^\M 



' h 



NEW YORK 

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 

1896 



4* 



^ 



Copyright, 1896, by Harper & Brothers. 



All rights reserved. 



PKEFACE 

When the hot midsummer months come, 
who is it that does not feel a repugnance for 
hot food, and whose palate does not demand 
something delicate yet cold ? For them, and 
for the housekeeper who is so unfortunate as 
to have to attend to the culinary department 
of her establishment, is this book intended. 
All the receipts given are for dishes to be 
eaten cold ; many of them require no cook- 
ing, as canned and preserved goods may be 
used in their preparation, although fresh 
meats and vegetables are always preferable ; 
and all can be prepared in the cool morning 
hours, before the sun's rays make life hardly 
bearable. 



iv PREFACE 

The authors hope that this collection of 

receipts will be welcome, taking, as it does, 

the one unfilled place in the long list of 

culinary works. 

The Authors. 
April, 1896. 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Consomme 1 

Fish 5 

Meats 16 

Poultry 26 

Game 31 

Vegetables 35 

Bouciiees 37 

Pies and Patties 42 

Fisn Patties 49 

Cold Sauces and Dressings 51 

Salads 58 

Creams 75 

Charlottes 79 

Jellies 84 

Ice-Creams and Water-Ices 88 

Cakes and Biscuits 101 

Tarts and Pies 110 

Puddings 113 

Jams and Jellies 118 

Sandwiches and Savory Morsels 120 



INTRODUCTION 

We read in physiology that " many aro- 
matic substances" and "various kinds of 
flesh when well cooked, especially when 
highly 7 - spiced or flavored with sauce, un- 
doubtedly excite the stomach, and stimu- 
late the appetite by their odor, and it is 
this that makes the artifices of cookery so 
valuable when the appetite is not naturally 
strong " ; so that by going into the higher 
sciences — for cookery is a science in itself — 
we find the methods which should be fol- 
lowed by all cooks, and which the French 
long ago discovered and put to practical use, 
by which means a dish is made appetizing 
by giving it a flavor that shall not alone 
tickle our nostrils, but also excite our appe- 
tite by its fragrance. 



viii INTRODUCTION 

As the appetite is excited by the sense of 
smell, so is it also by that of sight. A dish 
may be very fragrant, and also agreeable to 
the palate, but if the general appearance is 
not such as to please the organs of sight it 
will so counterbalance the sense of smell 
that, if the appetite of the person be not 
highly developed, the dish will be repug- 
nant, and the diner unable to bring himself 
to eat it. 

It naturally follows that the cook must be 
also an artist, both as to the aroma of his 
or her preparations and as to the artistic 
arrangement of the different dishes with 
which he or she would please the palate of 
the gourmet. 

The authors believe that the receipts given 
will be — for their fragrance and taste — wel- 
come, but they leave to the artistic ability of 
the cook to so garnish the different dishes as 
to make them pleasing to the sight. 

All greens, such as cresses, parsley, lettuce, 
etc., and vegetables, such as beets, carrots, 



INTRODUCTION ix 

radishes, also eggs, and, in fact, one thousand 
and one things, will suggest themselves to 
the cook of artistic taste, which can be used 
to garnish the dishes with. 

For desserts, fancily cut colored papers, 
Chinese paper napkins, narrow ribbons of 
bright colors, mottoes, etc., can be used to 
give an attractive appearance to the differ- 
ent dishes. 



Consomme 

Consomme should be strained very clear, 
and so served, or colored with a little burnt 
sugar or a piece of bread toasted. It may 
be taken as a liquid, or, as some people pre- 
fer, a jelly. 

Yery good soups and consomme may be 
bought in tins and jars at any of the princi- 
pal grocers', but these, like all canned or pre- 
served goods, lack that delicate flavor which 
can only be obtained from fresh goods. 
calf's-foot consomme 

Boil 2 calf's feet, 2 ounces veal, a little nut- 
meg, a few blades of mace, and salt to taste, 
in 3 quarts of water, till it is reduced to 
3 pints ; strain, take off the fat, and place 

on the ice to cool. 

i 



2 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

» 

CHICKEN CONSOMME 

Boil a fowl, including the head and feet, 
nicely scalded and cleaned ; add to the liquor 
a blade of mace and an onion ; boil brisk- 
ly till the meat separates from the bones ; 
strain off and place on the ice to cool. 

CONSOMME OF MUTTON 

Place 12 mutton shanks, 1 pound of lean 
beef, and an onion, with 4 quarts of water, 
in a saucepan, and allow to simmer for four 
hours. Strain off. When cold, place on the 
ice to harden, or it may be taken liquid. 

CONSOMME ROYAL 

Boil briskly for an hour the head and 
feet of four fowls, 1 pound of lean beef cut 
into small pieces, in 2 quarts of water, and 
add an onion, turnip, and salt to taste. Re- 
move the scum. Strain off and place on the 
ice to cool. 

CONSOMME OF VEAL 

Take a knuckle of veal, a fowl, 4 shank 
bones, 3 blades of mace, a few pepper-corns, 
an onion, and boil in 3 quarts of water. 



CONSOMME 3 

When it boils skim it till the scum ceases to 
rise, cover the vessel, and allow to simmer 
for four hours. Place on the ice to cool. 

IMPERIAL CONSOMME 

Cut 2 pounds of lean veal into small 
pieces, adding half a pound of lean ham 
and a small chicken. Place in a stew pan 
with 1 ounce of butter, 3 onions, 2 carrots, 8 
mushrooms, 1 celery stalk, 1 parsnip, a blade 
of mace, and a quarter of a pint of water ; 
let it stew in the pan till it catches at the 
bottom and is quite brown, but not burnt, 
then add 4 quarts of water ; let it boil gently 
for three hours, then strain off and place on 
the ice to cool. 

WINDSOR CONSOMME 

Cut 4 pounds of beef into small slices ; 
place a slice of lean undressed bacon on the 
bottom of the stewpan ; lay the meat over it, 
with a few bits of butter or a cupful of fresh 
gravy. Slice over this a carrot, 2 onions, a 
little shallot, a stalk of celery, 2 bay-leaves, 
and some sweet herbs. Use a deep pot. 



4 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

Place over the fire, and shake occasionally 
to prevent the meat from sticking. When 
the meat is browned on both sides, and the 
juice partly drawn, add the necessary amount 
of water, allowing for waste. Skim well, 
check the boil with cold water, and skim it 
again and again. Let it simmer for three 
hours ; strain and place in a cool, dry place. 



ffxsb 

BAKED HERKINGS 

Scale, wash, and dry the herrings ; mix 
some pepper, a few cloves, and salt ; rub over 
the fish. Lay the herrings in a pot ; cover 
them with vinegar ; add a few bay-leaves ; 
cover tightly. Bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve cold. 

BAKED SALMON 

(1.) Place the fish in a deep pan ; put bits 
of butter over it. Season with allspice, mace, 
salt, and paprika ; rub a little of the season- 
ing on the inside. Baste occasionally with 
the gravy that collects in the baking-pan. 
Serve cold ; garnish with parsley. 

(2.) Scale and dry a fresh salmon; take 
out the bone by splitting down the back ; salt 



6 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

it well, and allow to stand till the brine is 
drained off ; then season with mace, cloves, 
and a little red pepper, pounded fine ; place 
the salmon in a covered pan, with bay -leaves, 
and cover it with butter ; place in the oven, 
and when done drain it from the gravy. Al- 
low to cool, and pour over clarified butter. 

CAVEACH MACKEREL 

Clean and divide 6 mackerel ; cut each half 
into 3 pieces. Powder and mix 1 ounce of 
pepper, 2 nutmegs, a little mace, 4 cloves, and 
salt ; make a hole in each piece of fish, into 
w T hich force the seasoning. Fry in oil, allow 
to become perfectly cold, put in a stone jar, 
and cover with vinegar. 

COLD CRABS 

(1.) Pick the meat out from the shells and 
claws of boiled crabs ; add some bread crumbs, 
paprika, essence of anchovy, 2 spoonfuls of 
vinegar, some clarified butter, and a spoon- 
ful of cider vinegar ; mix thoroughly. Clean 
the shells and fill them with the mixture. 
Pound the spawn in a mortar, pass it through 



FISH 7 

a sieve, and lay it over the crabs in fancy 
shapes. Garnish with parsley and the claws. 
The meat of two crabs will fill but" one shell. 
(2.) Pick out the meat ; mix it well with a 
teaspoonf ul of salad-oil, red pepper, and salt. 
Serve in the shells. 

COLLARED EEL 

Bone a large eel, whole ; lay it out flat, 
and season with pepper and salt, a table- 
spoonful of pounded mace, allspice, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, a small onion 
chopped fine, thyme, and marjoram. Roll 
up the eel, beginning at the tail; tie in a 
cloth, and place in a stewpan, together with 
a gill of vinegar, a pint of water, an onion, 
and 2 bay -leaves; boil for an hour. When 
cold take off the cloth and keep it in the 
liquor in which it was boiled, adding to it a 
little salt. 

COLLARED EELS 

Mix together parsley, shallot, thyme, mar- 
joram, pepper, mace, cloves, nutmeg, allspice, 
powdered mushrooms, lemon-peel, and salt. 



8 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

Clean and bone the eels ; lay them flat, with 
the inside upward ; rub the above mixture 
well into them. Koll them up and tie in a 
cloth ; boil in salt and water, with lemon-peel, 
a few bay- leaves, and pepper; add some 
vinegar. When clone take the collars out, 
skim off the fat, and boil down to a jelly, 
which is to be poured over the eels when 
cold. 

COLLARED MACKEREL 

Bone the mackerel, and sprinkle with salt, 
pepper, a tablespoonful of allspice, chopped 
onion, and parsley ; roll them up and place 
in a pan ; pour over them enough water and 
vinegar, mixed, to cover them ; let them boil 
gently for an hour ; keep them in the pickle, 
and serve cold. They may be baked instead 
of boiled. 

COLLARED SALMON 

Split, scale, and bone the salmon ; season 
with mace, cloves, pepper, and salt ; roll up 
in a cloth ; bake it with butter and vinegar. 
Serve cold. 



FISH 9 

GENEVA SALMON 

Tie up a piece of salmon, and place in a 
kettle with sliced onions, carrots, salt, spices, 
and a pint of claret or port ; when done take 
from the liquor and serve cold with tartar 
sauce. 

MOCK CAVIAEE 

Bone and pound some anchovies together 
with a little dried parsley, a clove of garlic, 
a little red pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and a 
little oil. Serve on toasted bread. 

PICKLED OYSTERS 

(1.) Wash the oysters ; strain the liquor, 
and add to every pint a glass of white wine, 
mace, nutmeg, white pepper-corns, and salt ; 
simmer the oysters for five minutes, but do 
not allow to boil, as they will become hard. 
Place them in glass jars. Add to the liquor 
a glass of vinegar, and boil ; skim the pickle, 
and pour over the oysters. When cold cover 
very tightly. 

(2.) Place the oysters in a stewpan ; sprin- 
kle with fine Lisbon sugar ; add their liquor, 



10 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

well strained, and set on the fire for five 
minutes, but do not allow to boil. Draw off 
the liquor, and add to it double the amount 
of vinegar, together with some catsup, pa- 
prika, lemon-peel, and salt ; boil a quarter of 
an hour. Sprinkle the oysters with sugar 
and salt, and place them in a stone jar. 
When cold strain the pickle over them and 
cover very tightly. 

(3.) Put the oysters in a saucepan with 
their own liquor, and allow to simmer gently 
for ten minutes ; then lay in a jar. When 
cold pour over them the following pickle : 
boil the liquor of the oysters with a bit of 
mace, lemon-peel, black pepper, and vinegar. 
Keep in small jar well covered. 

PICKLED SMELTS 

Wash and clean the smelts. Pound to- 
gether half an ounce of pepper, half an ounce 
of mace, half an ounce of saltpetre, and the 
same quantity of nutmeg ; lay the smelts in 
layers, placing the seasoning between each 
layer ; add a few bay-leaves ; boil some red 



FISH 1 1 

wine, and pour over the fish enough to cover 
it. When cold cover well. 

PICKLED STUEGEON 

Cut the sturgeon into small pieces ; wash 
it well, and tie in a cloth. To 3 quarts of 
water add 1 quart of strong beer, salt, 1 
ounce of ginger, 2 ounces of pepper, 1 ounce 
of cloves, and 1 ounce of Jamaica pepper ; 
when the liquor boils put in the sturgeon ; 
when clone take it from the fire and allow to 
stand overnight ; add a quart of strong vine- 
gar and salt. Cover closely. 

POTTED EEL 

Skin and clean a large eel ; dry and cut 
into small pieces about four inches in length ; 
season with mace, pepper, and salt ; lay in a 
pan and cover with melted butter ; bake for 
half an hour in a quick oven. When done 
take it out and place on a cloth to drain. 
Pack closely in a pot ; melt the butter it 
was baked in, and pour it over the eel. 

POTTED HERRINGS 

Cut the heads off the herrings and lay in 



12 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

an earthen pot ; sprinkle a little salt between 
each layer; acid cloves, mace, pepper, and 
sliced nutmeg ; fill up the vessel with vine- 
gar, water, and white wine ; cover it and 
place in the oven. When cold take out the 
herrings and put into well-covered vessels. 

POTTED LOBSTER 

(1.) Parboil the lobster ; cut it into small 
pieces, and season with mace, white pepper, 
nutmeg, and salt ; press into a pot and cover 
it with butter ; bake for half an hour ; put 
in the spawn. When cold take out the lob- 
ster and put it into covered vessels with a 
little of the butter ; beat the rest of the but- 
ter with some of the spawn, and cover the 
lobster with it. 

(2.) Take out the meat from the lobster 
without breaking; season with mace, nut- 
meg, white pepper, salt, and cloves. Put a 
little butter at the bottom of a pan, and lay 
the lobster over it, placing between the 
layers a few bay -leaves ; cover with butter, 
and bake in a slow oven ; when done strain, 



FISH 13 

lay in potting-pans, and add the seasoning. 
When cold pour clarified butter over it. 

POTTED MACKEKEL 

Clean, season, and bake the mackerel in a 
pan, with plenty of spices, bay-leaves, salt, 
and butter. When cold put them into a pot 
and cover with butter. 

POTTED SALMON 

Split, scale, and clean the salmon, but do 
not wash ; rub with salt, and drain off the 
moisture ; season with pounded mace, cloves, 
black pepper, and cayenne pepper. Cut the 
salmon into small pieces, lay them in a pan, 
and cover with melted butter. Bake, drain 
from the fat, put the pieces into pots and 
cover with clarified butter. 

SALMAGUNDI 

Wash and open 2 pickled herrings; re- 
move the meat from the bones, being care- 
ful not to break the skin, and keeping the 
head, tail, and fins on it ; mince the fish 
with the breast of a chicken, the yolks of 
2 hard-boiled eggs, an onion, a boned an- 



14 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

chovy, a little grated ham or tongue; sea- 
son with oil, vinegar, red pepper, and salt ; 
fill up the herring-skins so that they may 
look plump, and shape carefully. Garnish 
with parsley, and serve with mustard. 

SALMON JELLY 

Break the salmon into flakes ; season with 
allspice, nutmeg, salt, and pepper; fill a 
mould with alternate layers of the salmon 
and aspic jelly. Turn out on a flat dish, and 
garnish with lettuce - leaves and hard-boiled 
eggs. 

CEBICHE DE CAMAEONES (CEAWFISH) 

Boil the crawfish and remove the shells. 
Cut 3 onions into rounds; pour boiling 
water over them, let stand for five minutes, 
and repeat two or three times. Strain the 
juice of bitter oranges or lemons; mix in 
salt and paprika; put the fish into a deep 
dish together with the onions, and pour over 
them enough of the lemon -juice to com- 
pletely cover them. 



FISH 15 

CEBICHE DE PESCADO (FISH) 

Cut the fish into half -inch cubes. Pre- 
pare the onions as in the preceding receipt ; 
also the lemon -juice, with the paprika and 
salt. Put the fish into a deep dish, with 
lemon- juice sufficient to cover it; allow to 
stand for three or four hours ; stir well 
every ten minutes until the fish looks white 
and cooked. Bear in mind that the fish 
does not go near the fire. The best fish to 
use is halibut. 



/n>eats 

BEEF A LA MODE 

(1.) Take 4 pounds of bottom round, and 
rub well with powdered spices and salt. Lay 
skewers on the bottom of the stewpan, and 
spread over them thin slices of bacon ; place 
the beef on the bacon, and lay over it a few 
more slices ; add a little vinegar ; cover close- 
ly and stew for two hours. Add to the 
gravy a seasoning of cloves, pepper, bay- 
leaves, mushrooms, a little catsup, and a few 
button onions ; simmer till the meat is quite 
tender ; serve the meat dry ; strain the gravy 
and boil it slowly for an hour, when it will 
jelly ; glaze the meat with the jelly. 

(2.) Slice and fry to a nice brown 2 onions ; 
cut a quarter of a pound of bacon into small 



MEATS 17 

pieces; dip them into 3 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar ; make deep holes in a nice piece of 
beef weighing about 4 pounds, into which 
put the bacon ; rub the beef well with all- 
spice, cloves, 2 blades of mace, salt, pepper, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, all finely minced ; 
place the beef in a saucepan ; pour over it 
the vinegar, a small glass of currant jelly, 
the juice of a lemon ; add a carrot, turnip, a 
head of celery, and the spices ; allow to sim- 
mer gently for four or five hours. Take up 
and set on a dish to cool. 

BEEF BOUILLI 

Cut cold beef into slices about half an inch 
thick and about two inches wide ; make a 
dressing of finely chopped shallots, parsley, 
pepper, salt, mustard, egg, oil, and vinegar ; 
pour the mixture over the beef ; serve gar- 
nished with water-cress. 

COLLARED BEEF 

Lard a piece of corned beef ; make holes 
in it, and fill with a dressing of bread 
crumbs, suet, parsley, grated lemon -peel, 



18 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the 
yolk of an egg mixed well together; bake 
with a little water, whole peppers, and an 
onion. Serve cold. 

DAUBE GLACE 

Take a piece of lean beef ; make holes in 
it, and fill them with strips of fat which have 
previously been rolled in powdered sage, 
pepper, allspice, salt, and a little minced 
shallot. Boil 2 calf's feet to a jelly; strain 
and set aside to cool. Place the meat in a 
pan with the jelly ; add to it some cloves ; 
cover very tightly and cook for four hours. 
Place in a deep dish ; pour the jelly over it ; 
cool and put on the ice. 

FORCED BEEF 

Lard a piece of fresh corned beef ; make 
holes in it, and fill them with bread crumbs, 
suet, parsley, grated lemon-peel, sweet herbs, 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg, 
mixed so as to make a stuffing ; bake in a 
pan with a little water and wine, whole pep- 
per, 2 bay-leaves, and an onion. When done 



MEATS 19 

skim off the fat ; put the meat in a dish 
and pour the liquor over it ; set aside to 
cool. 

GALANTINE OF BEEF 

Mix together half a pound of bread 
crumbs, 1 pound of sausage meat, some 
chopped parsley, thyme, marjoram, season- 
ing, 6 eggs, and spice. Cut a piece of corned 
beef, weighing about 5 or 6 pounds, into a 
large thin sheet; season with pepper and 
salt ; spread the force-meat over it ; sprinkle 
some mushrooms over the meat, and roll it 
up very tightly ; tie in a cloth, and boil on a 
slow fire for five hours ; when done take it 
up and place between two dishes with a 
weight on top ; when cold trim the ends and 
glaze. 

JELLIED MEAT 

Soak and clean 4 calf's feet ; boil until 
done ; strain and separate the meat from the 
bones, and set aside to cool ; pour the liquor 
into a jar, and when cold remove the grease. 
Take a shank of beef and boil it until the 



20 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

meat falls in pieces; remove it from the 
liquor. Cut the meat from the calf's feet 
and the beef into small pieces ; put the jelly 
into a pan ; add to it the meat ; mix well to- 
gether, and heat to the boiling-point. Sea- 
son with red pepper and salt to taste ; pour 
into a mould to set. 

POTTED BEEF 

Take 4 pounds of corned beef ; place in a 
pan with a little suet and water ; cook in an 
oven ; when done pound in a mortar till it is 
perfectly smooth ; season with, cayenne, salt, 
pepper, a little mace, some of the gravy, and 
half a pound of melted butter. When thor- 
oughly mixed put into pots and cover with 
melted butter. 

POTTED MEAT 

Chop any kind of cold meat ; season with 
salt, pepper, cloves, and cinnamon ; moisten 
with a little wine, vinegar, and Worcester- 
shire sauce. Pack the meat in a jar, and 
cover it with about half an inch of melted 
butter. This meat will keep for some time. 



MEATS 21 

POTTED OX-TONGUE 

Boil a fresh tongue ; skin, clean, and re- 
move the bones ; when cold mince very fine, 
and add 4 ounces of butter to each pound of 
tongue, some mace, nutmeg, cloves, paprika, 
salt, and a little black pepper; mix well; 
place in jars and pour melted butter over. 

RED BEEF 

Take a piece of corned beef and season it 
with pounded mace, cloves, pepper, a little 
allspice, salt, chopped parsley, and shallot. 
Boil it till tender; cut into thin slices; serve 
cold. 

RIBS OF BEEF A LA PORCUPINE 

Bone the flat ribs and beat them flat ; rub 
over with the yolks of eggs ; sprinkle on 
bread crumbs, parsley, leeks, marjoram, 
lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little 
paprika ; roll it up very tightly ; lard it with 
bacon; then a row of cold tongue, another 
of pickled cucumbers, a fourth row of lemon- 
peel ; do it over in rows as above till it has 
been larded all over ; then place in a deep 



22 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

pot with a little water ; cook in a slow oven. 
Serve cold. 

SPICED BEEF 

Place 2 pounds of beef in a saucepan, to- 
gether with one cupful of wine, the same 
quantity of water, 3 tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar, cinnamon, pepper, salt, and onions; 
cover the saucepan very tightly ; place over 
a slow fire for two hours ; take the meat 
from the gravy and set aside to cool. 

VINAIGRETTE 

(1 .) Rub 1 teaspoonf ul of sugar, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of mustard, salt and pepper to taste, into 
the yolks of 2 eggs ; add 3 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, set in a bain-marie, and cook until 
it is of the consistency of cream ; allow to 
cool. Boil 4 pounds of beef brisket until 
quite tender ; when cold, dish on a flat plate 
and mask with the dressing ; sprinkle over 
it chopped parsley, pickles, and a little shal- 
lot, 

(2.) Place a piece of beef in a pan, and stew 
with a little water, a glass of wine, sweet 



MEATS 23 

herbs, an onion, bay-leaves, cloves, salt, and 
pepper; when done, strain the liquor, re- 
move the fat carefully, and add a little vine- 
gar ; serve cold with the sauce. 

COLLARED BREAST OF LAMB 

♦ Bone the ]amb, rub it over with the yolk 
of an egg, grate over it a little lemon-peel, 
nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; chop up 2 table- 
spoonfuls of capers, 2 anchovies, some pars- 
ley, and a few sweet herbs ; mix with bread 
crumbs, and spread over the lamb; roll it 
up, and boil two hours ; take it up and put 
it into a pickle. 

COLLARED NECK OF PORK 

Bone the neck, and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, chopped sage, a little allspice, some 
pepper and salt, mixed together. Boll it up 
close, and bind very tightly; roast for an 
hour and a half in a slow oven. 

COLLARED SUCKING PIG 

Bone the pig, rub it well with pepper, salt, 
a few sage leaves and sweet herbs chopped 
fine ; roll up very tightly. Fill a pot with 



24 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

water, and add to it a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a few pepper-eorns, a blade of mace, some 
cloves, salt to taste, and a pint of vinegar ; 
when it comes to a boil put in the pig and 
allow it to boil till tender. When done take 
it up and cool; then place in a vessel and 
pour the liquor over it. 

FORCED PIG'S EARS 

Parboil 2 pairs of pig's ears ; make a force- 
meat of an anchovy, sage, parsley, a quarter 
of a pound of chopped suet, bread crumbs, 
pepper, and a little salt ; mix with the yolks 
of 2 eggs. Eaise the skin of the upper part 
of the ears and stuff them with the force- 
meat. Fry the ears in butter, and drain 
them ; make a rich gravy as follows : a glass 
of sherry, 3 teaspoonfuls of made mustard 
a little butter, a small onion, a little pepper 
and some paprika. Put the ears in a stew 
pan with the gravy, and cover very closely 
stew gently for half an hour. When done 
strain the gravy and reduce to a jelly 
place the ears on a dish and pour the jelly 



MEATS 25 

over them. When set, garnish with pars- 
ley. 

SUCKING PIG AU PERE DUILLET 

Cut off the head, quarter the body, lard it 
with bacon, and season with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, cloves, and mace. Lay some fat 
bacon on the bottom of a pan, place the 
head in the centre, and arrange the quarters 
around it ; add a bay-leaf, a chopped onion, 
a lemon, some carrots, parsley, and the liver ; 
cover all with bacon ; stew for an hour in a 
quart of stock, take it up, put in a stewpan, 
and pour over it a bottle of wine ; simmer 
gently for an hour. Skim the fat off the first 
gravy ; strain it ; add to it a sweetbread cut 
into slices, some trufljes, and mushrooms ; stew 
the whole until it jellies ; put the wine in 
which the pig was stewed into the jelly, 
pour it over the pig, and garnish with pars- 
ley. 



Ipoultrs 

BRAISED FOWL 

Bone the fowl and stuff with force-meat. 
Fry a few slices of onions in a stewpan; 
add the bones and trimmings of the chicken, 
a bunch of herbs, a few blades of mace, and 
a pint of broth. Cover the chicken with 
slices of bacon, cover the pan very tight- 
ly, and stew for half an hour. Strain the 
braise gravy, and boil it up quickly to a 
jelly. Glaze the chicken with it, and serve 
cold. 

CHICKEN CHEESE 

Boil two chickens in a quart of water. 
When done take them out of the water and 
remove the bones. Mince the meat very 
fine together with 2 or 3 truffles, return to 



POULTRY 27 

the water, and cook until almost dry. Pour 
into a deep dish, cover, and place a weight 
on the cover. Put in a cool place. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

Pound half a raw chicken with the bones 
and meat, cover it with cold water, and al- 
low to simmer till the meat is reduced to 
rags and the liquor to about half. Strain, 
and pass through a very fine sieve. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Return to the fire and 
simmer for five minutes. Skim, and keep 
in a cool place. 

BRAISED DUCKS 

Dress, singe, and lard with bacon a couple 
of ducks. Season with parsley, mace, cloves, 
pepper, and salt. Lay some slices of fat 
bacon on the bottom of a stewpan ; put in 
the ducks with the breast downward ; cover 
them with slices of bacon ; cut a carrot, 
turnip, onion, and celery stalks ; mix with 
mace, four or five cloves, and pepper. Cover 
well, and simmer over a slow fire till the 
breasts of the ducks are of a light brown ; 



28 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

then put in some water, and cook till done. 
Chop very line parsley, shallot, gherkins, 
capers, and 2 anchovies. Place in a stewpan 
with some of the liquor of the ducks, a little 
aspic jelly, and the juice of a small lemon. 
Boil it. Lay the ducks on a dish, pour over 
them the sauce, and serve cold. The sauce 
will form a glaze over the ducks. 

GOOSE MARINADED 

Bone and stuff with the -following mixt- 
ure : 12 sage -leaves, 2 large onions, 2 ap- 
ples ; chop fine and mix with bread crumbs, 
4 ounces of beef suet, a glass of port, half a 
grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, grated lemon- 
peel, and the yolks of 4 eggs. Stuff the 
goose, sew it up, and fry till it is light 
brown. Put into a stewpan with 2 quarts 
of broth, cover closely, and stew for two 
hours. Take out the goose, and allow to 
cool. Take the fat from the gravy and acid 
a tablespoonful of lemon pickle, port, an 
anchovy, mace, pepper, and salt. Allow to 
boil till reduced to a jelly, pour over the 



POULTRY 29 

goose, and allow to cool. Garnish with 
beets cut into fancy shapes and sprigs of 
parsley. 

PIGEON CUTLETS 

Cut off the breasts and wings of six 
pigeons ; flatten them out and trim in the 
shape of cutlets. Fry in butter, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, an onion, and 
2 or 3 button mushrooms, and pour over the 
pigeons. Season them with salt and pepper, 
dip in egg and roll in bread crumbs ; fry in 
butter, and serve cold with tartar sauce. 

PIGEONS IN JELLY 

(1.) Boil a calf's foot. Put the broth in a 
pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, pepper, salt, lemon-peel, a slice of lean 
bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them. When 
done, take them out and allow to cool. 
Clarify the jelly with the whites of 2 eggs, 
and strain it through a thick cloth. Put 
the jelly over the pigeons, and garnish. 

(2.) Pick and roast two pigeons. Make a 
jelly as in the preceding receipt, and with it 



30 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

half fill a deep bowl. When the jelly and the 
birds are cold, lay the birds breast down in 
the jelly, and pour the rest of it over them, 
so as to completely cover them. When 
hard, turn oat on a flat plate or dish, and 
garnish with parsley. 

PUPTON PIGEONS 

Make some force-meat ; roll it out like 
paste, put it in a buttered dish, and lay over 
it thin slices of bacon, squabs, sliced sweet- 
breads, asparagus tips, mushrooms, and hard- 
boiled eggs. Put another layer of force- 
meat over the whole. Bake it, and when 
done turn it out into a dish. Serve cold. 

TURKEY IN JELLY 

Bone a turkey and stuff it with force- 
meat, to which add 6 truffles and 12 mush- 
rooms. Lard it with fat bacon ; tie it up ; 
put in a pan just large enough to hold it. 
Add 2 quarts of strong stock, and stew for 
three hours. Allow it to cool ; take the fat 
off the gravy. Dish the turkey, and pour 
the jelly over it. 



6ame 

FLORENTINE HAKE 

Bone a hare, except the head ; make a 
stuffing of bread crumbs, the chopped liver, 
half a pound of bacon, a glass of red wine, 
an anchovy, 2 eggs, a little sweet-marjoram, 
thyme, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; fill the 
hare with the stuffing, being careful to force 
it up to the head ; sew the opening, tie in a 
cloth, and boil for an hour and a half in two 
quarts of water ; when reduced to half add 
a pint of port, a tablespoonful of lemon- 
juice, and one of catsup. When done, take 
out the hare and allow to cool ; fill the eyes 
with a little piece of beet, and place sprigs 
of parsley in the mouth. Reduce the liquor 
to half a pint, or until it jellies ; pour over 



32 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

the hare ; garnish with rounds of hard-boiled 
eggs, beets, and sprigs of parsley. 

LARDED HARE 

Bone a hare, lay it flat on a board, and 
season with pepper, spices, chopped mush- 
rooms, parsley, thyme, and shallots ; spread 
force-meat over it, roll it up very tightly, and 
lard it with bacon. Put the bones and some 
ham into a stewpan with a few bay-leaves, 
onions, thyme, parsley, a few blades of mace, 
and half a pint of port ; cover the bones with 
fat bacon, put in the hare, and cover it also with 
bacon ; set on a slow fire to simmer for two 
hours ; take out the hare, and allow to cool ; 
glaze with aspic jelly ; garnish with parsley. 

PARTRIDGES A LA FRANQAISE 

Truss the partridges and skewer them ; 
cover the breasts with slices of lemon, and 
over them lay some fat bacon ; wrap them 
in paper and tie tightly. Roast for three- 
quarters of an hour ; when done take off the 
paper and serve cold with the juice of Sev- 
ille oranges. 



GAME 33 

POTTED PARTRIDGES 

(1.) Truss the partridges; season inside 
with salt and pepper; place in a stewpan 
lined with slices of lean ham ; add a bunch 
of thyme, some whole pepper, and allspice ; 
cover with slices of ham ; add a pint of 
water; cover tightly and stew for two 
hours ; keep in the pot till cold, then put 
into pots with a few whole pepper-corns ; 
pour clarified butter over them and cover 
tightly till used. 

(2.) Clean the partridges, and season with 
mace, allspice, pepper, and salt; lay them 
breast downwards on a pan ; pack the birds 
as close as possible ; add plenty of butter ; 
cover the pan very well and bake. When 
cold put the birds in pots and cover with 
butter. 

POTTED RABBITS 

Cut up 2 young rabbits, and take the leg 
bones out at the thigh ; pack in a small pan 
and season with finely chopped pepper, 
mace, cayenne, and allspice; add plenty of 

3 



34 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

butter, and bake gently. Keep in the pan 
for two days; then place in the pots and 
cover with clarified butter. 

RABBITS EN GALANTINE 

Bone and flatten out 2 young rabbits ; lay 
force-meat upon them, slices of ham, and egg 
omelets ; roll up tight and fasten them ; lard 
with fat bacon ; cook in a slow oven, and 
serve cold ; glaze with aspic jelly colored 
with beet juice; garnish with parsley. 

RABBITS A LA PORTUGUESE 

Bone 2 rabbits, and spread force-meat over 
them. Put the bones in a stewpan with 
some onions, a few sweet herbs, a little mace, 
and a few bay-leaves ; lay the rabbits over 
this and cover them with bacon ; pour over 
a pint of stock and set the pan on the fire ; 
simmer very slowly for an hour ; strain off 
the liquor, remove the fat, and boil the sauce 
to a jelly ; add to it a few truffles chopped 
fine. Serve the rabbits, and when cold glaze 
them with the jelly. 



Degetables 

Almost every variety of vegetables can be 
eaten cold ; and as the manner of preparing 
them is not unlike that of salads, but few 
receipts are given. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS 

Boil 6 artichoke bottoms in salt and water ; 
when done take them out and remove the 
chokes; boil till tender, and allow to cool. 
Spread some anchovy paste over each, and 
mask with a mayonnaise dressing ; garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs and capers. 

ASPARAGUS 

Drain a can of asparagus tips and wash in 
cold water. Fresh asparagus may be used if 
preferred. Place the asparagus on ice, and 
serve with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. 



36 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATI1ER 

BEETS 

Cook and peel the beets ; when cold cut 
into rounds, place in a deep dish, and cover 
with vinegar ; add a little salt. 

CUCUMBERS 

Cut large cucumbers into rounds ; place on 
ice ; serve with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. 
Tomatoes may be prepared in the same man- 
ner. 

ONIONS 

Cut the onions into rounds, and pour boil- 
ing water over them ; allow to stand for five 
minutes; then throw off the water. This 
will do away with the strong odor and bring 
out the delicate flavor. Place the onions in 
a deep dish and cover with vinegar ; season 
with red peppers cut into strips and salt. 



Vouchees 

ANCHOVY BUTTEK 

Wash, bone, and pound 6 anchovies, add- 
ing sufficient butter to make a paste ; scald 
some parsley and rub it through a sieve; 
mix the ingredients well ; spread the butter 
on toast, and garnish with parsley. 

ANCHOVY CANAPES 

Scale and wipe dry some oil-preserved an- 
chovies; cut them into long strips; wrap 
each strip in a piece of pastry, being care- 
ful to close the ends ; fry in very hot lard. 
Dish, and sprinkle a little grated Parmesan 
cheese over them while hot ; let cool, and 
garnish with lettuce-leaves. 

ANCHOVY CREAM 

Wash, bone, and pound 9 anchovies to- 
gether with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, 1 



38 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

tablespoonful of oil, a little cayenne, and a 
few drops of carmine ; when quite smooth 
mix in two tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic, 
and rub through a sieve; add two table- 
spoonfuls of whipped cream, and set aside 
till needed. 

ANCHOVY CROUTONS 

Pound the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 
1 ounce of butter, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy 
essence, and paprika to taste ; pass through 
a very fine sieve, and add 2 boned anchovies 
pounded to a paste ; mix well and spread on 
thin rounds of brown bread or toast. Gar- 
nish with strips of green and red peppers. 

ANCHOVY FINGERS 

Rub two ounces of butter and G of flour 
till quite smooth ; add 1 teaspoonful of an- 
chovy essence, cayenne, a well-beaten egg, 
and enough cold water to make a nice light 
paste; roll out very thin, prick it with a 
fork, cut it in strips, and bake in a moderate 
oven. When cold make sandwiches of the 
fingers, placing anchovy butter between 



BOUCHEES 39 

them. Brush the top over with a little aspic 
jelly ; before it becomes hard, sprinkle some 
of the fingers with finely minced parsley, 
others with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg 
passed through a sieve, and the remainder 
with the white of the egg finely chopped. 
When the jelly has become quite firm, gar- 
nish with lettuce-leaves and serve. 

CAVIARE BOUCHEES 

Cut small circles of bread and brown them 
in butter. Chop together to a paste some 
cress, nicely picked and dried, and the same 
quantity of butter; mix well and spread a 
little on each toast ; spread some caviare on 
top of this and garnish with parsley. 

DUCHESS BOUCHEES 

Mix equal parts of curry-powder, powdered 
truffles, bread crumbs, and browned flour; 
add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, grated 
rind of half a lemon, 1 tablespoonful of Chili 
sauce, a little butter, and 1 teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice. Season with salt, red pepper, 
and nutmeg to taste ; stir this over a slow 



40 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

fire until quite brown and thick ; cool, and 
serve on small toasts or crackers. 

DEVILED EGGS 

Boil until hard 6 eggs ; when cool shell and 
divide in half; remove the yolks and mix 
them with the same quantity of deviled ham ; 
refill the whites. Dish in a nest of lettuce- 
leaves, and garnish with beet cut into fancy 
shapes. 

EGGS A LA INFANTA 

Boil until hard 6 eggs ; shell and cut in 
half lengthwise ; remove the yolks, being 
careful not to break the whites. Pound the 
yolks smooth, and mix with half a pint of 
mayonnaise dressing. Make a nest of lettuce- 
leaves, and place the whites on it ; fill them 
with the yolks and mayonnaise. Garnish 
with capers and a beet cut into fancy 
shapes. 

PARISIAN CANAPES 

Cut small oblongs of stale bread, and fry 
in butter to a light brown ; place on a piece 
of paper to cool — the paper will also absorb 



BOUCHEES 41 

all the butter. Spread each piece with an- 
chovy butter, and place on each a boned an- 
chovy; sprinkle over them finely chopped 
olives mixed with a little chopped chives. 



DMes anfc patties 

The cost and trouble of making patty- 
cases is such that it is far preferable to buy 
them at the caterers' ; especially is it desira- 
ble, as then the cook will not run the risk of 
spoiling the paste. 

Pie pastry is not so easily spoiled as patty 
or puff paste, and as this is not obtainable, 
the cook will have to tempt fate and try her 
own skill at making it herself. 

CHICKEN PATTIES 

Cut the white meat of a chicken into small 
pieces. Place in a saucepan half a pint of 
stock and 2 ounces of lean ham chopped fine ; 
let simmer. Mix a spoonful of butter and 
one of flour. Boil' the broth to about half 
the original quantity ; strain into a half-pint 



PIES AND PATTIES 43 

measure and fill up ^with cream ; stir this 
into the flour and butter; when thick add 
the chicken. Keep at the boiling-point for 
five or six minutes ; set aside to cool ; when 
cold fill the patty-cases ; garnish with sprigs 
of parsley. 

CHESIIIKE POKK PIE 

Skin a loin of pork ; cut into small steaks ; 
season with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. Make 
a pie-crust, and fill with a layer of pork, 
then one of apples, pared and cored, and 
sugar enough to sweeten it, then another 
layer of pork ; pour over half a pint of white 
wine, and cover all with a little butter before 
covering the pie. Serve cold. 

HAM-AND-VEAL PATTIES 

Chop 6 ounces of lean veal, 3 ounces of ham ; 
put into a stewpan with 1 ounce of butter 
rolled in flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 
tablespoonf uls of veal stock, nutmeg, a little 
lemon -peel, paprika, salt, and lemon -juice. 
Stir over fire, and when cold fill the patty- 
cases. 



44 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

MINCE PATTIES 

Chop a cold veal kidney and some fat ; add 
an apple, orange, candied lemon-peel, fresh 
currants, a little wine, cloves, brandy, and 
sugar. Fill the patty -cases, bake, and serve 
cold. 

OX-CHEEK PIE 

Line a deep dish with puff-paste. Boil 
the ox-cheek with seasoning ; cut into small 
pieces ; lay in the dish, and throw over them 
1 ounce truffles, the yolks of 3 hard-boiled 
eggs, a cup of mushroom pickles, half a cup 
of asparagus tips, and several force-meat 
balls. Season with pepper and salt, and fill 
up the pie with the gravy in which the cheek 
was boiled. Cover it with the crust, and 
place in the oven ; when done allow to cool. 

PRINCESS PATTIES 

Fill the patty-cases with the following 
mixture: place 1 pint stock broth, half a 
pint of milk, seasoning, a little grated nut- 
meg, and thyme in a saucepan ; boil for five 
minutes, then add a little roux and the liquor 



TIES AND PATTIES 45 

from 1 till of mushrooms ; boil until it be- 
comes thick. Chop the meat of a fowl, half 
a pound of lean ham, and mushrooms finely, 
then add to the sauce ; simmer a little while ; 
then cool. 

SAVORY ROLLS 

Place in a saucepan 1 ounce of butter, a lit- 
tle shallot, sweet herbs, and parsley chopped 
fine ; fry slowly for five minutes ; then add 
1 pint broth, some seasoning, the liquor from 
1 tin mushrooms, and 2 pounds of rump 
steak ; simmer for an hour, then take out the 
steak, and thicken the gravy with a little 
roux ; boil three minutes. Chop the mush- 
rooms, steak, and 4 hard-boiled eggs finely ; 
stir gently into the sauce; allow to cool. 
Eoll out some puff-paste very thin and cut 
into four-inch squares ; place a little of the 
mixture in the centre of each, touch the 
edges with egg, fold over, and pinch the 
edges together; place on a baking-tin and 
bake a light brown. Serve cold. 



46 COLD DISHES FOR DOT WEATHER 

SAUSAGE ROLLS 

Cut three-quarters of a pound of pork and 
3 ounces of fat into small pieces and mince, 
adding salt, pepper, mace, and allspice ; spread 
on a board, and add 3 ounces of bread crumbs 
and seasoning; mix well. Eoll puff-paste 
out to about a quarter of an inch, cut into 
squares, put some of the mixture on each 
square, wet the edges, fold over the meat, 
press the edges together, brush over with the 
yolk of an egg, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

sheep's-head pie 

Lay a sheep's head in salt and water over- 
night ; wash it thoroughly with warm water ; 
take out the soft bones from the nostrils ; 
boil it till it is tender; chop the meat, to- 
gether with half a pound of bacon and 1 
hard-boiled egg ; then add salt, pepper, some 
finely minced parsley, with half a pint of the 
liquor in which the head w T as boiled ; put in 
a pie-dish, and cover with a short crust ; bake 
in a moderate oven. 



PIES AND PATTIES 47 

SWEETBREAD PIE 

Lay a puff-paste at the bottom of a dish. 
Cut the sweetbreads into small pieces, and 
place them in the dish, then add some arti- 
choke bottoms, truffles, asparagus tips, fresh 
mushrooms, and the yolks of hard-boiled 
eggs. Season with salt and pepper. Pour 
in some rich veal gravy ; thicken with cream 
and flour. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve 
cold. 

SHROPSHIRE PIE 

Cover a dish with a good puff-paste. Chop 
together a rabbit and 1 pound of fat pork ; 
season with salt and pepper ; lay the rabbit 
and pork in the dish. Parboil the liver of 
the rabbit, and beat in a mortar together 
with the same quantity of bacon and a few 
sweet herbs; season with salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg; mix it with the yolk of an egg; 
make into balls and throw into the pie, add- 
ing to it a pint of white wine and some nut- 
meg. Bake in a quick oven for an hour. 
Serve cold. 



48 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

SWEET PATTIES 

Chop the meat of a calf's foot, boiled, to- 
gether with 2 apples, an ounce of candied 
orange and lemon-peel, some fresh peel, and 
lemon-juice; mix with grated nutmeg, the 
yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and 4 
ounces of currants. Fill the patty-cases, 
bake, and serve cold. 

TURKEY PATTIES 

Mince some of the white meat of a turkey, 
and season with lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, 
pepper, cream, and a little butter ; place over 
the fire, and thicken with a little flour. 
When cold, fill the patty-cases and serve. 

VEAL PIE 

Chop a little ham, some cold veal, and 
beef suet together with an onion, some pars- 
ley, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, mace, paprika, 
and bread crumbs. Bind with an egg or 
two. Fill the patty-cases ; place in a quick 
oven. Serve cold. 



ffisb patties 

OYSTER PATTIES 

Boil 2 dozen oysters, strain, bread, and 
cut them into small pieces ; place in a stew- 
pan with 1 ounce of butter rolled in flour, 
half a gill of cream, grated lemon-peel, and 
half the oyster liquor ; season with paprika, 
salt, and lemon-juice. Stir over the fire for 
five minutes, and fill the patty-cases. 

LOBSTER PATTIES 

Boil a lobster, pick out the meat from 
the tail and claws, chop it fine, place in a 
stewpan with a little of the spawn pound- 
ed in a mortar till perfectly smooth. Add 
1 ounce of fresh butter, half a gill of cream, 
paprika, salt, a teaspoonful of anchovy es- 
sence, a little flour and water. Stew for 

4 



50 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

live minutes. Fill the patty-cases, and al- 
low to cool. 

PRAWN PATTIES 

To 1 pint of broth add a tablespoonful of 
anchovy sauce, pepper, salt, and some grated 
nutmeg ; boil for ten minutes, then add a 
little roux ; boil and thicken. Add a pint of 
prawns ; let come to a boil ; when cold fill 
the patty-cases. Garnish with parsley. 

SALMON PATTIES 

Take half a can of salmon ; flake and mix 
with half a pint of cream thickened with 
a spoonful of butter rolled in corn-starch; 
season with salt, pepper, anchovy sauce, and 
a few olives chopped fine. Allow to cool, 
and fill the patty-cases. 



Goto Sauces anfc Dressings 

There is nothing more disagreeable to the 
palate than the taste of cold grease or fat ; 
bearing this in mind, the cook will always 
remove the fat from the sauces. 

In making dressing for salads it is always 
necessary that all the ingredients should be 
thoroughly incorporated before the dress- 
ing is added to the salad. To obtain this 
result satisfactorily it is necessary to mix 
the dressing in a cool room, and to have all 
the ingredients as cold as possible. When 
the dressing has assumed the proper consist- 
ency it should be placed on the ice until the 
very moment of sending to the table. 

ALBERT DRESSING 

Mix well 4 tablespoonfuls of olive - oil, 



52 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

1 tablespoonful of wine, 1 tablespoonful of 
cider vinegar, a little paprika, and salt to 
taste. Place on the ice till wanted. 

ASPIC SAUCE 

Bub smooth the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs ; add 1 ounce of salt, a quarter of a 
pint of oil — by degrees — till it becomes 
thick ; then add 1 teaspoonful of anchovy 
essence and 2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar. Mix well and set on the ice. 

CREAM DRESSING 

To the juice of 1 lemon add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of drawn butter, 1 teaspoonful of French 
mustard, the beaten yolks of three raw eggs, 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream, and salt to taste; 
beat smooth and set in a bain-marie until it 
becomes a thick cream. 

CUCUMBER DRESSING 

Remove the seeds from two large cucum- 
bers ; grate and drain ; add to them 1 table- 
spoonful of finely chopped fresh red pepper, 
and mix with half a pint of mayonnaise 
dressing. 



COLD SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 53 

DUTCH SAUCE 

Grate a cupful of horseradish; boil in a 
quarter of a pint of water ; strain the water 
into 3 ounces of butter rubbed smooth with 
3 ounces of flour; add to the horseradish, 
and stir to a smooth paste; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and the yolks of 6 eggs 
well beaten, with 3 tablespoonfuls of cider 
vinegar ; salt to taste. 

GREEN SAUCE 

Take equal quantities of tarragon, chervil, 
and cress ; wash well ; acid the yolks of 4 
hard-boiled eggs and 2 anchovies ; pound all 
the ingredients well in a mortar; strain 
through a very fine sieve, and add olive-oil 
and lemon-juice as in making mayonnaise ; 
season with pepper, salt, and mustard. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

Wash and scrape clean a large root of 
horseradish; grate fine. Put in a dish, and 
add 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
and salt ; mix well together until the sugar 



54 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

is dissolved. This sauce will keep good for 
two or three weeks. 

MINT SAUCE 

Wash, pick, and mince the mint ; place in 
a sauce-bowl with some sugar and vinegar; 
stir until the sugar is dissolved. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Chill the yolk of a raw egg on ice ; then 
put the yolk on a very cold plate, and add 
a little salt and a gill of olive-oil, drop by 
drop, stirring constantly in the same direc- 
tion ; when it forms a cream, add a teaspoon- 
ful of French mustard and a tablespoonful 
of cider vinegar; stir all the time to keep 
from curdling. Lemon -juice or tarragon 
vinegar may be used instead of the cider 
vinegar. 

MINT AND PARSLEY SAUCE 

Take equal quantities of mint and parsley ; 
mince, and add melted butter, a little lemon- 
juice, and salt to taste. 

NETHERLAND SAUCE 

Put 6 tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar in a 



4 

COLD SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 55 

saucepan ; allow to boil until reduced to half 
the quantity ; when cold, add the yolks of 3 
eggs, well beaten, a little nutmeg, and 5 
ounces of butter. Place on a slow fire until 
thick, stirring constantly ; then put in a 
bain-marie, add 3 ounces of butter, and beat 
to a froth. Cool on ice. 

PLAIN OR FRENCH DRESSING 

Mix well together 3 tablespoonfuls of 
olive- oil, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, salt, 
and a little pepper. Keep cool until wanted. 

RAVIGOTE SAUCE 

Mince together cresses, chervil, tarragon, 
a few celery stalks, and 2 bay-leaves ; add a 
tablespoonful of capers, 2 anchovies, salt, 
and pepper ; pound all the ingredients in a 
mortar, and add the yolk of a raw egg, a lit- 
tle oil, and vinegar; beat to a cream, and 
add a little mustard. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Take the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, a 
teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 
teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, mustard, 



56 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

and a teaspoonf ul of catsup ; mix well, and 
add 4 tablespoonf uls of oil, and 1 tablespoon- 
ful of cider vinegar ; beat the whole to a cream. 

SAUCE FOR COLD MEATS 

Grate a cupful of horseradish ; add a ta- 
blespoonful of sugar, and cover with vine- 
gar ; add salt and a tablespoonf ul of French 
mustard. 

SAUCE FOR FISH 

Pound a tablespoonf ul of grated horserad- 
ish, 4 shallots, a clove of garlic, a salt-spoon- 
ful of mustard, and one of celery salt ; add a 
little paprika. Pound well, and mix with 
half a pint of cucumber vinegar and a quar- 
ter of a pint each of shallot and horseradish 
vinegar. Let stand for three or four days ; 
strain, and bottle the liquor. 

TARTAR SAUCE 

(1.) Mince 2 shallots, a little chervil, and tar- 
ragon ; put in a vessel with mustard, a glass- 
ful of vinegar, salt, pepper, and a little oil ; 
stir constantly. If too thick, add a little 



COLD SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 57 

(2.) Chop fine, and add 4 or 5 olives, a 
gherkin, and a tablespoonful of capers to 
half a pint of mayonnaise dressing; mix 
well and serve. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE 

Mix together thoroughly 2 tablespoonfuls 
of olive-oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, 
salt, and a little paprika ; add a tablespoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley, and 2 finely 
chopped olives. 



Salafcs 

Lettuce, cresses, parsley, etc., are always 
used in salads ; if not in their composition, 
they are used to garnish the dish, and, of 
course, should be as crisp as possible. Salad 
greens should be kept on ice, so that they 
will retain their freshness. 

Before making the salad the greens should 
be picked and placed in cold water until 
read} T to use, when they should be thorough- 
ly dried and placed in the dish. 

AMERICAN SALAD 

Wash and pick 1 quart mixed salad; let 
drain ; dry with a cloth. Cut very fine, and 
place in a dish, making a hollow in the cen- 
tre. To 2 eggs add 1 teaspoonful of made 
mustard and salt ; beat well, and add half a 



SALADS 59 

cup of oil and the same quantity of vinegar. 
Stir in half a cup of cream ; pour the sauce 
over the salad. Cut two apples in thin 
slices, lay them around the salad, and gar- 
nish with beet. Bone 6 sardines and cut 
them lengthwise ; take each half and roll up 
in a strip of lettuce, and stand them in the 
centre of the salad. 

ANCHOVY SALAD 

Kemove the bones, heads, and tails of 6 
anchovies. Wash two heads of lettuce, cut 
them small, and place on a dish. Add 6 
button onions chopped finely, parsley, sliced 
lemon, and anchovies. Pour over the juice 
of a lemon mixed with a tablespoonful of 
oil. 

CEAB SALAD 

Boil 25 hard-shell crabs for about twenty 
or twenty -five minutes. When cool remove 
the top shell and tail ; quarter the remain- 
der, and pick out the meat carefully with a 
fork. The large claws should not be over- 
looked, nor the fat which adheres to the 



60 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

shell. Cut up an amount of celery equal in 
bulk to the crab meat ; mix both together 
with a plain salad dressing. Put in a salad- 
bowl, and mask with a mayonnaise dressing ; 
garnish with crab claws, shrimps, and hard- 
boiled eggs. 

COD SALAD 

Soak the cod overnight. Boil separately 
potatoes, carrots, and onions ; chop fine, and 
add to the cod, whifch has been previously 
cooked and shredded. Make a dressing of 1 
beaten egg, chopped parsley, fresh marjoram, 
oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper to taste. Pour 
the dressing over the salad and garnish with 
rounds of hard-boiled egg. 

SALMON SALAD 

(1.) Cut up a pint of cold boiled potatoes. 
Take equal quantities of cabbage, cucum- 
ber pickles, and canned salmon sufficient to 
make, after chopping, a pint in all. Chop 
the cabbage and pickles together, very fine. 
Remove all bits of bone and skin from the 
salmon, and pick into pieces. Mix together 



SALADS 61 



with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, salt, and 
half a teaspoonful of dry mustard, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of oil, and 4 of vinegar; when 
smooth stir into the cabbage and cucumber, 
then stir in the potatoes and fish, and serve. 

(2.) Chop 3 cold boiled potatoes and mix 
with 1 can of salmon; rub smooth the 
yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs ; season to taste 
with mustard, pepper, and salt ; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream and 4 of vinegar. Pour 
over the fish and potatoes. 

(3.) Place in a salad-bowl G stalks of cel- 
ery, sliced, and 1 pound of canned salmon ; 
arrange neatly; add mayonnaise dressing, 
and garnish with parsley and rounds of 
hard-boiled eggs. 

(4.) Take cold salmon cut into squares; 
dress in a dome in the centre of the dish, 
mask with a mayonnaise dressing, sprinkle 
whole capers over it, and encircle the base 
with rounds of hard-boiled eggs, and around 
this wreathe lettuce-leaves. 



62 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

SARDINE SALAD 

(1.) Take 3 heads of lettuce, 1 box sar- 
dines, 1 egg, half a cup of milk, half a tea- 
spoonful of mustard, seasoning, a little roux, 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of 
anchovy paste, a pinch of sugar, and a boiled 
potato. Put the milk and seasoning in a 
pan with enough roux to make a thick 
sauce ; let cool, and add to it the vinegar, 
mustard, anchovy paste, and half the oil of 
the sardines ; mix well, and keep in a very 
cold place. Wash and. dry the lettuce, place 
on a dish, and press together with the hands, 
and. add the potato, cut small ; pour the 
sauce over it ; lay the sardines on this, and 
ornament with the yolks of hard-boiled eggs 
passed through a sieve, and the whites 
chopped line; finish with rings and dia- 
monds of beets. 

(2.) Take 6 sardines, remove the skin and 
bone, and pour lemon -juice over them. 
Place in a salad-bowl with a crisp head of 
lettuce; chop up 2 hard-boiled eggs, add 



SALADS 63 

to the fish, and serve with a plain dress- 
ing. 

BEEF . SALAD 

Cut into pieces an inch in length half a 
pound of cold meat ; take 2 heads of lettuce, 
and wipe on a smooth cloth ; place them in 
a salad-bowl; add the beef. Chop up a 
sweet Spanish pepper and add to the salad. 
Prepare a plain dressing, pour it over the 
salad, and mix gently. 

ITALIAN CHICKEN SALAD 

Make a dressing of the yolks of 3 hard- 
boiled eggs pounded fine, equal quantities of 
mustard and paprika, a pinch of powdered 
sugar, 4 tablespoon fuls of oil, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar. Simmer over the fire, but 
do not allow to boil. Take the white meat 
of two chickens, and separate into flakes; 
pile it in the middle of a dish, and pour the 
dressing over it. Cut up two heads of let- 
tuce, and arrange around the chicken. On 
top of the lettuce place the whites of the eggs, 
cut into rings, and lay so as to form a chain. 



64 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

RABBIT SALAD 

Cut up the meat of 2 roast rabbits ; place 
in a bowl and cover with a plain dress- 
ing ; add a teaspoonf ul of minced salad 
herbs, and let stand for four hours. Put in 
a salad-bowl 3 heads of lettuce ; drain the 
meat and add to the lettuce. Put into a 
plate 1 teaspoonf ul of French mustard ; thin 
with 1 tablespoonful of the dressing taken 
from the meat, and add slowly to this 1 pint 
of mayonnaise dressing, and pour over the 
salad. 

RUSSIAN SALAD 

Chop and mix carefully together 2 ounces 
of roast chicken, and the same quantity of 
ham, beef-tongue, beef, and mutton, 4 truf- 
fles, 12 anchovies, 3 stalks of celery, 2 heads 
of lettuce. Mix with 8 tablespoonfuls of 
sauce tartare, and serve. 

SALADE DE VEAU 

Take some cold veal, mince, and soak in 
oil and vinegar for two hours. Put into a 
bowl with 1 teaspoonful of mustard and 2 



SALADS 65 

teaspoonf uls of pounded anchovies ; add 
some oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, chopped 
pickles, and whole capers, pour over the veal 
and serve. 

SALPICON DE CARNE 

(1.) Cut equal portions of cold meat and 
cold boiled potatoes into half-inch cubes; 
mix well, and dress with plain salad dress- 
ing, adding chopped parsley and fresh mar- 
joram. Over this place rounds of onions 
which have been previously soaked in vine- 
gar for two hours. 

(2.) Cut cold meat into half-inch cubes; 
boil and chop an onion and add to it the meat. 
To this add olives, fresh marjoram, and pars- 
ley. Dress with a plain salad dressing and 
serve. 

SALPICON DE GUATITAS 

This is made in the same manner as the 
preceding receipt, using tripe instead of the 
meat. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Drain 1 can of asparagus tips ; throw into 



66 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

cold water ; drain again immediately, and 
wipe dry. Put into a salad-bowl, and pour 
over it French dressing. 

BEET SALAD 

(1.) Choose 6 large beets ; bake them in a 
slow oven ; peel and cut into small squares. 
Peel and cut into rounds 6 button onions, 
pour boiling water over them, and allow to 
stand for ten minutes. Throw off the water 
and repeat. Mix in a salad-bowl with the 
beets and chopped parsley. Pour French 
dressing over it and serve. 

(2.) Cut into thin slices 4 small beets ; boil 
2 white onions, cut fine ; add to the beets, 
and serve with a mayonnaise dressing. 

BREAD SALAD 

Cut into pieces about half an inch square 
a stale loaf of bread ; chop equal parts of 
cold boiled potatoes, tomatoes, and cucum- 
bers ; season with a little grated onion, 1 ta- 
blespoonful of oil, the juice of 2 lemons, pep- 
per and salt, and chopped parsley ; mix with 



SALADS 61 

the bread; let stand for a quarter of an 
hour before serving. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

(1.) Cut a small cabbage as if for cold 
slaw. Make a dressing of the following in- 
gredients : 3 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream, 

3 of melted butter, half a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of made 
mustard, 1 cup of cider vinegar ; stir well to- 
gether, all but the cream, and cook over the 
fire until they come to a boil. Set the dress- 
ing aside to cool; when cold add the cream, 
and pour over the cabbage. 

(2.) Take a small cabbage and shred ; add 

4 stalks of celery chopped fine. Place in a 
salad-bowl and pour over it a pint of may- 
onnaise dressing. Garnish with parsley. 

(3.) Chop up the cabbage quite fine ; place 
in a saucepan and pour boiling water over it, 
and acid a little salt. Let stand for half an 
hour; wash in cold water and dry thorough- 
ly; when dry place in a salad-bowl and add 
hard-boiled eggs and parsley chopped fine. 



G8 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

Serve with plain salad dressing and add 
some olives. 

Carrot salad is made in the same manner 
as described in the preceding receipt. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

(1.) Boil the cauliflower ; when cold tear 
apart, dry on a soft cloth, and put in a salad- 
bowl. Pour over it half a pint of mayon- 
naise dressing. Garnish with lettuce-leaves 
and rings of hard-boiled eggs. 

(2.) Boil the cauliflower until cooked, be- 
ing careful not to overdo it. Chop it fine, 
and add chopped hard-boiled eggs and pars- 
ley. Garnish with olives and beets cut in 
fancy shapes. Pour French dressing over all. 

CRESS SALAD 

Take equal parts of cresses and celery 
stalks ; cut up, place in a salad-bowl, and 
sprinkle with sweet herbs ; pour over this a 
mayonnaise or plain dressing and serve very 
cold. 

EGO-PLANT SALAD 

Boil the egg-plant until cooked ; peel and 



SALADS 69 

cut into small pieces ; add the juice of a lem- 
on, 1 tablespoonful of oil. Mix well and 
serve. 

GERMAN SALAD 

Boil a cauliflower in well-salted water un- 
til quite tender. When sufficiently cooked 
place in a sieve to drain. When cold divide 
the cauliflower into small pieces. Mask with 
mayonnaise dressing and garnish with beets 
cut into fancy shapes. 

GRAPE-FRUIT EN MAYONNAISE 

Wash and dry 2 heads of lettuce, and make 
a nest in the salad-bowl ; sprinkle over a lit- 
tle oil and vinegar, and season with salt and 
pepper. Peel the grape-fruit and separate 
into sections ; split the membrane so that 
the pulp of the fruit can be extracted ; sep- 
arate into small bits and toss into the pre- 
pared nest. Mask with mayonnaise dressing 
and set in a cool place. 

JARDINIERE SALAD 

Take equal quantities of cold cooked pota- 
toes, turnips, string-beans, beets, celery, and 



70 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

tomatoes. Put in a salad- bowl, and add 
chopped pickle, hard-boiled eggs, olives, ca- 
pers, and shred lettuce; pour over a may- 
onnaise dressing, and garnish with lettuce- 
leaves. 

KALE SALAD 

Strip the inside leaves from the kale, place 
in a salad-bowl, and pour over the whole a 
French dressing. Garnish with cresses. 

LENTIL SALAD 

Cook the lentils in salted water, and drain. 
Put the lentils in a bowl, and add 1 chopped 
onion ; stir in 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley ; add some chopped egg and shred 
lettuce; season w T ith salt, pepper, oil, and 
vinegar, and decorate with parsley. 

LIMA-BEAN SALAD 

Boil the Lima beans in water with a little 
salt, a bunch of parsley, and an onion until 
quite tender ; drain. Mix with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a lit- 
tle chopped thyme and mint. Serve quite 
cold. 



SALADS 71 

LETTUCE SALAD 

Wash the lettuce thoroughly in cold water 
and dry with a soft cloth. Separate the 
leaves with the hand ; otherwise they will 
become flabby. Place in a salad-bowl and 
dress with French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

PEA SALAD 

Cook the pease in salted water ; when done 
put aside to cool. Add to them a hard-boiled 
egg and a boiled white onion, chopped fine. 
Pour over them a dressing made of oil, 
lemon- juice, and salt and pepper to taste. 

PERSIAN SALAD 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices a quar- 
ter of an inch thick. Arrange in a salad- 
bowl and place on the ice. Chop 2 hard- 
boiled eggs; add 1 teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, a little chervil, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
pepper, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 8 
tablespoonfuls of oil. Mix thoroughly and 
pour over the potatoes; stir together, and 
serve. 



72 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

PRINCE SALAD 

Cut a pint of cold boiled potatoes into 
small squares ; add the same quantity of 
pickled cauliflower, minced fine. Mix 4 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 
of celery salt, 1 teaspoonf ul of made mustard, 
and 1 ounce of butter. Heat to the boil- 
ing-point; pour hot over the potatoes and 
cauliflower, stir lightly, and serve very cold. 

SALADE ANDALOUSE 

Chop fine 1 Spanish onion and a large cu- 
cumber; peel 3 tomatoes, cut into small 
pieces, take out the seeds, and strain the 
juice from them. Dress in a salad-bowl with 
salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and let stand 
for an hour. Make a mound of grated bread 
crumbs, all white, and arrange the salad 
above it, following the shape. Garnish with 
laurel-leaves and olives. 

SALADE DE CRESSON 

Take fresh tomatoes of a bright red, re- 
move the seeds, pass the pulp which comes 
from the seeds through a sieve. Blend with 



SALADS 73 

this liquor the yolks of 2 boiled eggs mixed 
with the yolk of a raw egg, and add salt, 
pepper, and mustard. Take the water- 
cresses, carefully cleaned and picked ; dress 
and season each separately ; then blend the 
two well. Do not mix until just before 
serving. Surround the tomatoes and cresses 
with lettuce - leaves. Pour a mayonnaise 
dressing in the centre. 

SALADE DES HARICOTS BLANCS 

Cook and strain white beans, and season 
with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, a tablespoon- 
ful of cream, a tablespoonful of French 
mustard. 

SPINACH SALAD 

Place a quart of spinach leaves in a salad- 
bowl with a Spanish onion cut up fine and a 
little mint. Pour over half a pint of plain 
salad dressing, and garnish with hard-boiled 

eggs. 

STRING -BEAN SALAD 

(1.) String a pint of beans; boil in salt 
water with an onion and a sprig of parsley. 



74 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

Place the beans in a salad-bowl, sprinkle 
with minced salad herbs, pour over a plain 
dressing, and serve very cold. 

(2.) Cut the beans in four; place in a 
saucepan with cold water, and put on the 
lire; when the water comes to a boil the 
beans will be cooked ; let cool. Dress with 
a plain salad dressing. A little boiled onion 
may be added. 

SWEET -POTATO SALAD 

Boil 3 large sweet - potatoes ; cut into 
squares ; add 2 stalks of celery, cut small. 
Pour over the following dressing ; 3 table- 
spoonfuls of oil, 2 of vinegar, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Garnish with olives and 
parsley. 



Creams 

APRICOT CREAM 

Put 10 apricots in a pan with a gill of 
water and 5 ounces of sugar; cook; when 
done allow to cool ; beat half a pint of cream 
very stiff, add the apricots passed through 
a very fine sieve, and 4 ounces of sugar ; dis- 
solve half an ounce of isinglass in a little hot 
water, mix with the cream, stir well, and 
pour into a mould. 

BANANA CREAM 

Take 5 bananas, skin and pound them to 
a pulp together with 5 ounces of sugar ; 
beat half a pint of cream to a stiff froth ; 
add the bananas, half a glass of brandy, and 
the juice of two lemons ; mix well ; add half 
an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little hot 



76 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

water, beat for a few minutes, fill the mould, 
and set in a cool place. 

CAVALIER CREAM 

Melt 2 ounces of chocolate in half a gill 
of milk; beat three-quarters of a pint of 
cream to a stiff froth, add 8 ounces of sugar, 
half a glass of maraschino, the chocolate, the 
juice of 2 lemons, and a box of gelatine dis- 
solved in half a gill of boiling water ; mix 
well ; pour into a mould, and stand on the 
ice to set. 

CREAM A LA CARDINAL 

Pick and clean a quart of raspberries ; put 
them in a basin, add half a pound of sugar, 
bruise with a wooden spoon, and pass through 
a fine sieve; mix the pulp with a pint of 
cream, a few drops of carmine, and a box 
of gelatine dissolved in a small quantity of 
boiling water ; stir well, pour into a wet 
mould, and stand on the ice till quite firm ; 
serve with a custard poured over it. 

EBONY CREAM 

Stew 2 pounds of French prunes in a little 



CREAMS 77 

water ; pass them through a sieve ; add half 
an ounce of gelatine melted in a little water; 
a quarter of a pound of sugar ; allow to boil ; 
pour into a mould; when cold turn it out 
and serve with whipped cream. 

HUNGARIAN CREAM 

Put 1 pint of milk, half a pound of sugar, 
and 8 eggs into a pan ; stir over the fire a 
few minutes; add half an ounce of isin- 
glass ; take from the fire and stand in a pan 
of cold water; add a glass of maraschino, 
4 ounces of candied cherries, and half a cup 
of cream ; stir till nearly set ; pour into a 
mould, and stand on ice. 

NORMANDY CREAM 

Put half a pint of cream into a pan to- 
gether with half a pint of milk, 1 box of 
gelatine, sugar to the taste, and a little va- 
nilla ; stir well ; do not allow to boil ; wet a 
mould, and arrange candied fruits in the 
bottom ; pour in some of the cream, and set 
aside to cool ; when firm lay in some more 
candied fruits and add more cream ; repeat 



78 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

till the mould is quite full ; place on the ice 
to set. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

Pour a little melted raspberry jelly in the 
bottom of a mould and allow it to set ; soak 
a quarter of an ounce of gelatine in a gill of 
milk; stir it over the fire till thoroughly 
melted ; beat a pint of cream to a froth ; 
add a quarter of a pound of sugar and half 
a pound of chopped preserved pineapple ; 
stir in the gelatine ; when the raspberry jelly 
is set, pour in the cream. 

PRUSSIAN CREAM 

Beat half a pint of cream to a froth ; add 
sugar to taste, and the juice of 2 lemons ; 
beat 4 eggs ; add to them a glass of maras- 
chino ; mix with the cream, and beat ; stir 
in a little isinglass melted in water; have a 
mould standing in ice- water, pour a little of 
the jelly around it ; sprinkle with blanched 
pistachios and candied cherries ; when set 
pour in the cream, allow to set, and turn 
out on a dish. 



Cbarlottes 

APRICOT CHARLOTTES 

Butter a mould. Cut a stale loaf into fin- 
gers, and a round the size of the bottom of 
the mould ; fry them in butter and arrange 
them in the mould. Pare and stone a pound 
and a half of apricots ; boil them with one 
pound of sugar for half an hour. Pour into 
the mould, cover with slices of bread dipped 
in butter, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Turn out on a dish and sift powdered sugar 
over it. 

CHARLOTTE - RTTSSE 

Dip a mould in water ; line it with small 
sponge - cakes ; put glace cherries on the 
bottom ; mix a tablespoonful of sugar with 
a little lemon -juice and brandy. Add 2 



80 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

tablespoonfuls of cream, and whisk to a 
stiff froth ; stir in a little gelatine dissolved 
in milk. Fill the mould, cover with cake, 
and stand in a cool place to set. 

CORNUCOPIAS 

Mix well together 3 eggs, half a pound of 
sugar, half a pound of flour, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of water, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
Drop in tablespoonfuls on a pan, and bake 
in a moderate oven ; when done, take out, 
and while still hot roll in the form of a cor- 
nucopia, and hold in shape till cold ; fill the 
cornucopias with whipped cream. 

GOOSEBERRY CHARLOTTE 

Pick 2 pounds of gooseberries. Wash them 
well, and boil with half a pound of sugar un- 
til reduced to a pulp. Dissolve a little gela- 
tine in half a cupful of hot water; mix it 
with the gooseberries, and pass them through 
a fine sieve. Line a mould with small sponge- 
cakes and pour in the gooseberries. Stand 
aside to set. Turn out on a dish, and serve 
with cream. 



CHARLOTTES 81 

ORANGE CHARTREUSE 

Make a quart of calfs-foot jelly, flavor it 
with oYange, and keep in a liquid state ; peel 
4 oranges, and divide into small sections, be- 
ing careful not to break the inner skin ; place 
the oranges in a flat dish and sprinkle pow- 
dered sugar over them, and set aside for two 
hours. Pour about a teacupful of the jelly 
into a plain mould ; let set, and arrange upon 
it a layer of oranges ; pour over these some 
jelly ; allow it to set ; then some more oranges, 
and so on till the mould is quite full. When 
quite firm turn out on a dish, and surround 
the base with a border of whipped cream, and 
sprinkle the latter with chopped pistachios. 

PINEAPPLE TRIFLE 

Make small holes in a stale sponge-cake, 
and pour over it as much of the syrup of a 
pineapple as it will absorb ; chop a few slices 
of the pineapple, put them around the bottom 
of the cake, and pour cream over the whole ; 
sprinkle with blanched almonds and pista- 
chios cut very small, and candied cherries. 



82 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

PORCUPINE 

Pat a pound of raspberries into a pan with 
a pound and a half of apples, pared, cored, 
and sliced ; acid enough powdered sugar to 
sweeten it, and boil on a slow fire till the 
apples are soft and pulpy ; then pass through 
a sieve ; stir in 2 ounces of dissolved gela- 
tine, and pour into an oval mould; when 
firm turn out on a dish ; stick it over with 
thinly cut almonds, to imitate the quills of 
a porcupine ; pour over whipped cream and 
serve. 

RASPBERRY GATEAU 

Cut a sponge-cake into slices half an inch 
thick ; place them in a dish ; pour over them 
a pound and a half of raspberries and cur- 
rants stewed with half a pound of sugar; 
allow to stand for half an hour; pile the 
cake in the centre of a dish ; whip some 
cream to a froth ; sweeten with sugar and 
flavor with wine ; pour it over the cake, and 
send to the table. 



CHARLOTTES 83 

STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE 

Line a mould with lady's -fingers; cover 
the bottom with a layer of jelly of some 
bright color. Make a filling as follows : put 
a pint of thick cream into a pan together 
with an ounce of dissolved gelatine and a 
pound of picked strawberries ; mix thorough- 
ly and pour into the mould ; cover the top 
with some more fingers, place on the ice to 
set ; serve with whipped cream. 



3ellies 

APRICOT JELLY 

Place a tin of apricots in a pan with half 
a pound of sugar and allow them to boil; 
strain off the syrup ; take out the kernels and 
remove the skin from the apricots ; allow to 
cool ; add to a pint of the syrup half a box 
of gelatine dissolved in a little water ; boil, 
and clarify with the whites of eggs ; pour a 
little jelly into the bottom of a mould, and 
when it is beginning to set place over it 
some of the apricots ; add more jelly and 
apricots till the mould is full ; set in a cool 
place, and serve with whipped cream. 

CLARET JELLY 

Mix together half a pound of powdered 
sugar, 1 bottle of claret, the juice and rind 



JELLIES 85 

of a lemon, a small pot of currant jelly, and 
half a box of gelatine ; boil for ten minutes ; 
acid a little brandy; strain, and allow to 
cool. 

CHEEKY JELLY 

Soak a box of gelatine in a pint and a 
half of water; add the juice of 4 lemons, 
half a pound of sugar, and the whites of 2 
eggs beaten in a little water ; stir over the 
fire till it boils ; pass through a jelly-bag un- 
til clear, then add half a glass of noyau, a 
few drops of essence of almonds, and color 
with a few drops of cochineal ; pour into a 
mould. 

MUSCAT JELLY 

Soak 1 box of gelatine in water, add the 
juice of 2 lemons, half a pound of sugar, 
and the whites of 2 eggs beaten in a little 
water; place the pan on the fire and stir 
gently till it boils; take it up, and pass 
through a sieve till quite clear; stand in 
cold water, and when nearly set stir in a 
little elder-flower water and half a pound of 



86 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

muscatel grapes ; pour into the mould, and 
stand aside to set. 

OEANGE JELLY 

Make a jelly the same as the claret jelly ; 
free the oranges from the pith, and cut into 
small pieces with a sharp knife ; when the 
jelly begins to set, stir in the oranges ; place 
on the ice to set. 

SANDRINOHAM JELLY 

Soak 1 box of gelatine in cold water for 
an hour ; add the juice of 3 lemons, half a 
pound of sugar, and the whites of eggs 
beaten in a little water; stir over the fire 
till it boils ; let it settle, and pass through a 
jelly -bag till quite clear; add a glass of 
brandy, an ounce of pistachios, and a table- 
spoonful of boiled rice; stir the jelly till 
nearly set, then pour into the mould. 

STEAWBEEEY JELLY 

Pour a little jelly into a mould, place a 
layer of strawberries over it, pour over 
some more jelly, and when set place over 
it another layer of strawberries ; repeat till 



JELLIES 87 

the mould is full, the last layer being of 

jelly. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI JELLY 

Put half a box of gelatine to soak in half 
a pint of cold water ; dissolve in a pint of 
boiling water ; add the juice of 3 lemons ; 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; strain ; 
when it begins to set, put a layer of jelly 
on the bottom of a mould, then a layer of 
sliced bananas, then a layer of jelly, next 
a layer of sliced oranges, another layer of 
jelly, a layer of peaches; the last layer 
should be of jelly. 

WINE JELLY 

Soak half a box of gelatine in half a pint 
of cold water, then add a pint of boiling 
water, and stir till dissolved ; add the juice 
of 3 lemons ; strain ; add some sherry, and 
when nearly set stir in a quarter of a pound 
of grapes, skinned and stoned; pour into 
the mould and set on the ice to harden. 



Uce<reams an& WLatcteccs 

ALMOND CREAM 

(1.) Blanch a half-pound of sweet almonds 
and a half-dozen bitter almonds. Pound to a 
paste in a mortar with a little water or milk 
to prevent oiling. Boil a quart of milk, pour 
it over the almonds and allow to stand until 
cold, when it must be strained through a 
cloth, squeezing it very hard to extract all 
the taste of the almonds. To this milk of 
almonds add a pint of cream and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, and freeze. 

(2.) Blanch 1 pound of sweet almonds and 
roast them, being careful not to burn them. 
Pound them to a paste in a mortar with a 
little rose-water. Pour a quart of boiling 
milk over them, and allow to stand until 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 89 

cold, when they must be strained as in the 
preceding receipt. Now make a caramel of 
a half-pound of sugar, with which the cream 
is to be sweetened. To make the caramel 
put the sugar in a porcelain-lined saucepan 
with just enough water to moisten it, and 
place over a quick fire, being careful not to 
burn it. When the sugar is melted and of 
a delicate brown mix with a cup of boil- 
ing milk, stirring constantly until dissolved. 
Add this and a pint of cream to the milk of 
almonds. Freeze. 

APRICOT CREAM 

Mash 18 ripe apricots with a half-pound of 
sugar ; add a quart of cream, and rub through 
a sieve. Add a few of the bruised kernels, 
and freeze. 

BLACKBERRY CREAM 

Make a custard of the yolks of 4 eggs and 
a quart of milk. Set aside to cool. Take a 
quart of picked blackberries and mash them 
with a half-pound of powdered sugar. Let 
it stand half an hour. Then strain, and add 



90 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

this juice to the custard, mixing it well. 
Add sugar to taste. Freeze. 

BISCUIT CREAM 

Take half a dozen sponge biscuits and soak 
in a quart of cream ; add the yolks of 3 eggs, 
well beaten, and a half-pound of sugar. Put 
it over the fire to thicken, but do not allow 
it to boil. Take from the fire and whisk 
until cold ; add a spoonful of maraschino, 
and freeze. 

BROWN-BREAD CREAM 

Grate as fine as possible stale brown 
bread ; take 2 tablespoonf uls and soak in a 
quart of cream for two or three hours, and 
sweeten to taste. Freeze. 

BURNT CREAM 

Take a cup of sifted sugar ; moisten and 
stir over the fire to a fine brown ; add a pint 
and a half of cream ; mix in the yolks of 4 
eggs, well beaten, and 3 ounces of sugar. 
Place over the fire to thicken ; do not allow 
to boil. Take from the fire, whisk until cold, 
and freeze. 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 91 

CHOCOLATE CREAM 

Take half a pound of chocolate and break 
in small pieces ; melt it over the fire in a cup 
of water ; add three ounces of sugar and a 
pinch of salt. When it is dissolved and well 
cooked add a quart of cream and a teaspoon- 
ful of essence of vanilla. Withdraw from 
the fire, whisk until cold, and freeze. 

CINNAMON CREAM 

Take an ounce and a half of the best pow- 
dered cinnamon and pour a quart of boiling 
milk over it. Let it stand for an hour, and 
strain through a thick cloth. Add 1 ounce 
of gum-arabic, dissolved in hot water, and 
sweeten with half a pound of sugar. Freeze. 

COFFEE CREAM 

(1.) To a quart of boiling milk add the 
yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten, and a half- 
pound of sugar. Place over the fire to 
thicken, but do not allow it to boil. With- 
draw from the fire and mix with it a cupful 
of very strong coffee. When cold, freeze. 

(2.) Take 4 ounces of freshly roasted coffee- 



92 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

beans and pour a quart of boiling milk over 
them. Allow to stand until cold ; then strain 
through a napkin ; add a half-pint of whipped 
cream and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. 
Freeze. 

COCOANUT CEEAM 

Take a fresh cocoanut and grate it. Pour 
over it a quart of boiling milk. When cold, 
strain through a cloth, squeezing it very hard 
to get all the milk from the cocoanut. Add 
to this milk a half-pint of whipped cream 
and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. 
Freeze. 

LEMON CEEAM 

(1.) Make a syrup of three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and a cup of water ; to this 
add the strained juice of 2 lemons and the 
grated rind of 1. Beat 4 yolks lightly and 
add to the syrup, stirring over the fire until 
it thickens. "Withdraw from the lire, and 
when cold mix with a quart of cream. If 
not sweet enough, add more sugar. Freeze. 

(2.) Beat well the yolks of 6 eggs; mix 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 93 

gradually with this a quart of boiling water 
and the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons. 
Sweeten to taste, and stir this one way over 
the fire till it thickens, but do not let it boil. 
Add half a wineglass of sherry and a spoon- 
ful of brandy. Stir till cold, and freeze. 

MELON CREAM 

Take 2 good -sized rauskmelons and cut 
the meat into small pieces. Cover with a 
pound of powdered sugar and stand in a cool 
place for an hour. Place over the fire, and 
cook for five minutes, taking care it does not 
burn. Pass through a sieve, and when cold 
mix with a quart of cream, and freeze. 

MILLE FRUITS 

Take a spoonful each of preserved straw- 
berries, raspberries, apricots, currants, green- 
gages, ginger, gooseberries, plums, and or- 
ange-peel cut into small pieces. Sweeten a 
quart of cream with half a pound of sugar ; 
add to it a glass of noyau and the fruit. 
Freeze. 



94 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

ORANGE CREAM 

Scrape lightly, with a pound of lump- 
sugar, the rinds of 6 oranges. To this sugar 
add 3 cups of water and the strained juice 
of the oranges. Place over the fire, and boil 
for five minutes. Beat lightly the yolks of 
6 eggs, and mix with the syrup. Keturn to 
the fire, and whisk lightly until it thickens ; 
take from the fire, and add a glass of orange- 
flower water. When cold, freeze. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

Grate a fresh pineapple, and mix with a 
pint of syrup made from one pound of sugar. 
Add to this a quart of cream, and rub 
through a sieve. Before grating the pine 
take from it two or three slices, which must 
be cut into small dice and added to the 
strained cream before freezing. 

PISTACHE CREAM 

Beat to a paste in a mortar a half-pound 
of pistache nuts with a spoonful of brandy. 
Mix with a quart of cream and the yolks of 
4 well-beaten eggs. Sweeten with half a 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 95 

pound of sugar, and place the mixture over 
the fire, stirring gently until it thickens. 
When cold, freeze. If you wish to color this 
cream, put to it a spoonful of spinach-juice. 

RASPBERRY CREAM 

Bub a quart of the fruit through a hair 
sieve to extract the seeds; then mix with a 
quart of cream, sweeten with half a pound 
of sugar, and freeze. 

RATAFIA CREAK 

Take 4 ounces of ratafia biscuits ; pour 
over them 2 spoonfuls of noyau, the same 
quantity of sweet wine, the strained juice 
of a lemon and an orange. Sweeten with 
half a pound of powdered sugar, and beat 
the mixture with a quart of cream. Freeze. 

TEA CREAM 

Pour a quart of boiling milk over an ounce 
of tea -leaves and cover for Hive minutes. 
Strain in a bowl over a caramel made of 2 
ounces of sugar. Beat the yolks of 8 eggs 
with half a pound of powdered sugar and a 
pinch of salt. Mix with the milk and place 



96 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

the whole over the fire, stirring gently until 
it thickens. When cold, freeze. 

GINGER CREAM 

Take 4 ounces of preserved ginger cut 
into small slices, 2 spoonfuls of the ginger 
syrup, 4 yolks of eggs, and a quart of cream. 
Place over the fire till it thickens, but do not 
boil. Sweeten with half a pound of sugar; 
whisk until cold, and freeze. 

SPANISH CREAM 

Boil 2 quarts of milk with a pound of 
sugar, the grated rind of a lemon and of an 
orange. "Withdraw from the fire, and when 
cold add to it half a wineglass of orange- 
flower water. Freeze. 

APPLE ICE 

Pare and core 18 juicy apples ; cut them 
into small pieces and cook in 3 pints of 
water with 2 slices of lemon -peel. When 
soft, pass the pulp through a hair sieve and 
sweeten with a pound of sugar; add the 
strained juice of a lemon. Set aside to cool, 
and freeze. 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 97 

AURORA ICE 

Beat in a mortar a half-pound of sweet 
and half an ounce of bitter almonds ; mix 
the same with a quart of water and strain 
through a cloth. Make a syrup of a pound 
of sugar and boil pretty high; mix with 
almond water and boil until clear. Add the 
yolks of 4 well-beaten eggs, and stir gently 
until thoroughly mixed. When cold, freeze. 

CHERRY ICE 

Wash, pick, and stone two quarts of cher- 
ries ; bruise them well ; cover with a pound 
of powdered sugar and set aside for an hour. 
Then pour a quart of boiling water over 
them and strain through a cloth. Just before 
freezing add a glass of kirsch, if liquor is not 
objectionable, and a quarter of a pound of 
candied cherries cut in halves. 

MUSKMELON ICE 

Take the pulp of three good -sized melons 
and bruise well with a fork. Add to this a 
half-pound of sugar and set aside for half an 
hour. Then mix well with a quart of water 



98 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

and pass through a cloth. Before freezing 
take the pulp of another melon, cut into 
small squares, and add to the mixture, with 
a very little grated nutmeg. 

LEMON ICE 

Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and a 
pint of water; boil in it 2 or 3 slices of lemon- 
peel. Take from the fire and add the strained 
juice of 6 lemons, a quart of water, and an 
ounce of gum-arabic dissolved in water. 
Before freezing take out the lemon-peel and 
add the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a froth. 

ORANGE ICE 

Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and a 
pint of water. Add to this the strained 
juice of 12 oranges, a wineglass of orange- 
flower water, and fresh water to make 2 
quarts in all. Take 2 oranges, peel and sep- 
arate in sections, from which take all skin 
and seeds, cut into small pieces, and add just 
before freezing. 

PEACH ICE 

Take a quart of ripe peaches, and pour 



ICE-CREAMS AND WATER-ICES 99 

over them a quart of boiling water ; allow 
them to stand only long enough to loosen 
the skins. Throw off the water and rub off 
the skins ; cut into small pieces ; cover them 
with half a pound of powdered sugar, and set 
aside in a cool place for half an hour. Pass 
through a hair sieve, adding a quart of water. 
If not sweet enough, add more sugar; if too 
sweet, a little lemon-juice. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

Grate 1 good -sized pineapple or 2 small 
ones; add to the grated pine 3 pints of 
water, half a pound of sugar, and if the pine 
is very sweet the strained juice of 1 or 2 
lemons. Strain through a cloth, and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 

Pick 3 pints of ripe berries ; crush them 
with a silver fork, and cover with a pound of 
powdered sugar. Set aside in a cool place 
for half an hour, then add to the fruit 3 pints 
of water. Pass through a fine hair sieve or 
cloth, and just before freezing add a pint of 
picked berries. 



100 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 
WATEKMELON ICE 

Take the meat of a large ripe melon and 
mash it with a fork. Add to it a pint of 
water, a half-pound of sugar, the strained 
juice of a lemon, and half a teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon. Pass through a cloth, 
and freeze. If not sweet enough, add more 
sugar. 



Cafees an& Biscuits 

ALMOND CAKE 

Beat to a cream half a pound of butter; 
add half a pound of powdered sugar, half a 
pound of currants, 4 well-beaten eggs, and 
sift in 4 ounces of powdered rice and 6 
ounces of flour; butter a tin and fill Avith 
alternate layers of the paste and of the fol- 
lowing icing : Pound to a paste one-quarter 
ounce of bitter and half a pound of sweet 
almonds ; mix with the whites of 2 eggs 
and a little powdered sugar. The last layer 
should be of cake mixture; bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

CHERRY CAKE 

Beat 4 eggs, and add 4 ounces of sugar 
and 6 ounces of flour ; melt 4 ounces of but- 



102 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

ter over the fire, taking care that it is not 
too hot ; acid it to the mixture, stir in 4 
ounces of preserved cherries cut in halves, 
and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder; pour 
into a buttered tin and bake for about an 
hour. 

DATE CAKE 

Take 2 cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 cupful of 
molasses, 1 cupful of butter, half a cupful of 
sweet wine, half a cupful of milk, 3 eggs, 1 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of 
cloves, a little nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 
1 pound of dates stoned and chopped, and 
enough flour to mix to a paste. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

NUT CAKE 

Take 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 cups 
of sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups 
of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 
pint of mixed nuts, blanched and chopped ; 
flavor with vanilla. Put in a buttered tin 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS 103 

PRINCESS CAKE 

Take 6 eggs, half a pound of sugar, a 
quarter of a pound of pounded almonds, 6 
ounces beaten butter, 6 ounces of flour, 2 
tablespoonfuls of cream, and 1 tablespoonful 
of liqueur. Beat up the eggs with the sugar 
in a porcelain pot, set over a moderate fire, 
and continue beating; add the other ingre- 
dients one by one ; stir in a cupful of stoned 
cherries. Take up from the fire, beat a little 
while, and bake in a well-buttered mould in 
a moderate oven. 

RICE CAKE 

Mix half a pound. of sifted rice flour with 
half a pound of powdered sugar; add 6 well- 
beaten eggs ; season with a little orange- 
flower water and a drop or two of essence of 
lemon. Beat the whole for twenty minutes, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

SAVOY CAKE 

Take 10 eggs, 1 pound of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of flour, the grated rind 
of a lemon, and a drop or two of essence of 



104 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

lemon. Beat the whites and the yolks sep- 
arately ; add to the yolks the sugar, and mix 
with the whites ; stir in the flour, and put in 
the mould. Bake in a moderate oven for 
about an hour and a quarter. 

SPONGE-CAKE 

Beat the whites of 5 eggs to a stiff froth ; 
beat the yolks well, and mix them with the 
whites ; stir in half a pound of sugar and a 
third of a pound of flour ; do not beat, as the 
cake will become heavy. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

Take half a pound of flour, half a pound 
of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a 
pound of blanched almonds, one and one- 
half pounds of citron, half a grated cocoa- 
nut, the whites of 8 eggs, and 1 teaspoon ful 
of baking-powder. Mix very carefully ; put 
into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a 
slow oven for about two and a half or three 
hours. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS 105 

ALMOND CAKES 

Take 1 pound of flour, 1 pound of pow- 
dered sugar, 3 ounces of sweet almonds, and 
2 ounces of bitter almonds, blanched and 
beaten; mix the ingredients well, together 
with the yolks of 3 eggs and the white of 1 ; 
butter the tin and place them in rough lumps. 

BATH CAKES 

Take 1 pound of flour, into which rub half 
a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, 1 
ounce of caraway seeds, 4 tablespoonfuls of 
brandy, 4 tablespoonfuls of sweet wine, and 
enough rose-water to make it into a paste ; 
make it up into thin cakes, wash them over 
with rose-water, sift powdered sugar over 
them, and bake on a tin. 

BRISTOL CAKES 

Mix half a pound of flour with a quarter 
of a pound each of powdered sugar and 
butter, and 4 yolks and the whites of 2 eggs ; 
when thoroughly mixed acid half a pound of 
dried currants, and stir them well into the 
mixture. Butter a tin, drop the mixture 



106 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

from a tablespoon to form the cakes, and 
place in a brisk oven. 

CINNAMON CAKES 

Beat 6 eggs with a glass of rose-water; 
add a pound of powdered sugar, a quarter of 
an ounce of cinnamon, and enough flour to 
make a paste. Koll out and cut into small 
cakes ; bake them on paper. 

CRACKNEL 

Mix 8 ounces of flour and 8 ounces of 
sugar; melt 4 ounces of butter in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of wine; make a paste with 4 
beaten eggs ; roll out as thin as paper, cut 
with a glass, moisten with the white of an 
egg, and dust with powdered sugar. 

KENT DROP-CAKES 

Take a pound of flour, half a pound of 
butter, half a pound of powdered sugar, and 
currants. Make into a paste with 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water, a glass 
of brandy, and one of sweet wine. Mix 
quickly, and drop the mixture through a fun- 
nel on the tins ; bake for five or six minutes. 



CAKES AND BISCUITS 107 

NUT CAKES 

Beat 1 pound of walnuts with the whites 
of 3 eggs, add one and one-half pounds of 
sugar, mix well, and add the whites of 3 
eggs ; lay them out about the size of a nut, 
and cook in a slow oven. 

QUEEN CAKES 

Take 1 pound of sugar, 1 pound of flour, 
1 pound of butter, 1 pound of currants, the 
yolks of 10 eggs, and 4 tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. \York it with the hand for half an 
hour, put into buttered pans, and sift pow- 
dered sugar over them. Place in the 
oven. 

BOLL GINGERBREAD 

Hub together half a pound of flour, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, a teaspoonful of ginger, a 
teaspoonful of allspice, a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cinnamon, the grated rind of a lemon, 
and as much syrup as will make it into a 
paste. Spread very thin on the tins and 
bake in a slow oven. \Yhen done cut in 



108 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

squares, and while still warm roll it over a 
stick till cold. Remove and keep in a dry 
place. 

SHORT CAKES 

Eub into a pound of flour 4 ounces of but- 
ter, 4 ounces of powdered sugar, 1 egg, and 
a tablespoonful or two of cream, so as to 
make it into a paste. When mixed add cur- 
rants to half and caraway seeds to the rest ; 
roll it thin, cut, and bake on tins. 

BISCUIT DROPS 

Take three eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of rose- 
water, a few caraway seeds ; whip well to- 
gether till it becomes a light froth ; add half 
a pound of flour ; mix well and drop them 
small ; ice them with a little sugar, and bake. 

CHOCOLATE BISCUITS 

Add to 4 well-beaten yolks 2 ounces of 
chocolate, scraped very fine, and 6 ounces 
of sugar ; mix well, and add the w T hites of 6 
eggs beaten to a froth ; when well mixed stir 
in little by little 6 ounces of flour ; put the 
biscuit on white paper or in small paper 



CAKES AND BKCl J 09 

« 
moulds; sprinkle a little powdered s 

thorn, and bake in a moderate oven. 

PALA19-B0YAL Bl 

Take 1 pound 
half a pound of flour; 

the yolks separately; stir the yolks into the 
whites; add the sugar, the grated rind of a 
lemon, and the flour; drop in tins, 

sift pov. igar over them, and baki 

a quick oven. 



ZTarts an& flMes 

ALMOND CAKE 

Blanch and pound smooth 1 pound of sweet 
almonds with a little rose-water; stir in 3 
well-beaten eggs, 2 ounces of warm butter, a 
little grated lemon -peel, a tablespoonful of 
lemon- juice, and 3 ounces of sugar; mix well. 
Line some patty-pans with puff-paste, put in 
the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. 

ALMOND CUPS 

Blanch and pound 1 pound of sweet al- 
monds, adding a little rose-water ; mix with 
three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar ; 
stir the paste over a gentle fire; make cups 
of the almond paste; bake them in a cool 
oven ; when done, fill them with custard, and 
serve. 



TARTS AND PIES 111 

ANGELICA PIE 

Take an equal quantity of peeled and cored 
apples and of angelica stalks, also peeled and 
cut into small pieces ; boil the apples in water 
enough to cover them, to which add lemon- 
peel and sugar ; boil some sugar till reduced 
to a syrup, and strain ; place the syrup on 
the fire together with the angelica and boil 
for ten minutes; line a plate with puff-paste, 
over which put a layer of apples, then one of 
angelica, till the plate is full ; pour in some 
syrup, put on the cover, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

LEMON TARTS 

Mix together half a pound of powered 
sugar, 2 eggs, the crumbs of a sponge-cake, 
the juice and grated rinds of 2 lemons ; beat 
smooth and place in tins lined with puff- 
paste ; bake a light brown. 

PEACH COBBLER 

Line a dish with plain pastry, and pour 
into it freshly stewed peaches. Cover the 
dish with pastry, and bake a nice brown. 



112 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 
PRESERVED FRUIT PUFFS 

Cut into squares a good puff-paste, and lay 
a small quantity of jam on each ; double them 
over and pinch the edges ; lay them on sheets 
of paper, ice them, and bake for about twenty 
minutes. 

SANDWICH PASTRY 

Koll out two pieces of paste very thin; 
spread apricot or raspberry jam over one of 
them ; cover with the other, and bake ; cut 
it into squares and glaze. 

SMALL PASTRY 

Koll out a piece of puff-paste ; brush it over 
with egg', sprinkle over it some chopped 
almonds and granulated sugar; cut into 
shapes, and bake in a moderate oven. 

SWEETMEAT ROLL 

Koll a strip of puff-paste to an eighth of an 
inch in thickness ; spread with jam ; roll, and 
pinch the ends to keep the sweetmeats from 
coming out. Glaze with egg, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 



ALMOND PUDDING 

Blanch and pound very fine half a pound 
of sweet almonds. Beat up 8 eggs ; mix 1 
pound of sugar and three-quarters of a pound 
of butter to a cream ; stir in the almonds, 
then the eggs ; add a little rose-water and a 
pint of cream ; place in a pudding-dish with 
a ring of puff-paste, and bake for three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 

AMBER PUDDING 

Beat together three-quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar and 1 pound of butter till 
reduced to a cream; add the well-beaten 
yolks of 15 eggs, and enough candied orange 
to give it a color and to flavor it ; line a dish 
with a crust the same as for pie, pour in the 



114 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

mixture, cover it with crust, and bake it in a 
slow oven. 

APRICOT PUDDING 

Pass 6 ripe apricots through a sieve, and 
add 1 pint of cream, 4 ounces of sugar, 2 
eggs, 4 yolks, and 1 ounce of melted butter ; 
mix well, and bake in a dish lined with puff- 
paste, and glaze the top. 

CARROT PUDDING 

Grate half a pound of raw carrots and 1 
pound of sponge-cake; mix the well-beaten 
yolks of 8 eggs and the whites of 4, together 
with half a pint of cream, half a pound of 
melted butter, half a pint of wine, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of orange-flower water, a grated 
nutmeg, and sugar; stir well, and if too 
thick add a little more cream. Lay a puff- 
paste over the dish, and bake it an hour. 

DUTCH PUDDING 

Mix 2 pounds of flour with 1 pound of 
butter melted in half a pint of milk ; add the 
whites and yolks of 8 eggs beaten separate- 
ly, half a pound of powdered sugar, a pound 



PUDDINGS 1 1 5 

of currants, a few chopped almonds, and a 
little candied orange-peel; add 1 cake of 
compressed yeast; cover it, and allow to 
stand for an hour or two ; bake in a wide 
flat dish for an hour. 

GINGER PUDDING 

Soak 12 sponge biscuits in a pint of cream, 
add the yolks of 10 eggs, 2 ounces of pre- 
served wet ginger, cut in pieces, a spoonful 
of the syrup, and 2 ounces of melted butter ; 
bake in a dish lined with tart paste, or cook 
in a bain-marie. 

GOOSEBERRY PUDDING 

Stew green gooseberries till they become 
a pulp, pass them through a sieve, and when 
cold add to them 6 ounces of butter, 4 ounces 
of sponge biscuit, powdered sugar to taste, 4 
well - beaten eggs, and a glass of brandy ; 
bake in a dish with a paste border. 

JAM PUDDING 

Mix together equal quantities of creamed 
butter, sugar, and raspberry jam, with 3 well- 
beaten eggs ; nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves 
to taste ; bake in a paste-lined dish. 



116 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 
MACAROON PUDDING 

Fill the bottom of a dish, with macaroons, 
soak them in wine, and pour over them a 
custard made of 6 eggs, a pint and a half of 
cream, and a little milk ; add to it candied 
fruits to taste ; bake in a slow oven. 

NORTHUMBERLAND PUDDINGS 

Make a thick batter of flour and sweetened 
milk ; when cold and firm beat it and add to 
it 4 ounces of melted butter, 4 ounces of cur- 
rants, 2 ounces each of candied lemon and 
orange-peel, and a little brandy. Butter tea- 
cups, and bake the puddings in them ; when 
done, turn out and allow to cool. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING 

Beat up 8 eggs, place them over the fire 
in a bain-marie, and add half a pound of 
powdered sugar, half a pound of butter, and 
some grated nutmeg; keep stirring till it 
thickens ; set in a basin to cool ; place a 
puff-paste around the edges of a dish, pour 
in the mixture, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



PUDDINGS 117 

WELSH PUDDING 

Melt half a pound of butter in a bain- 
marie, and gradually add to it the beaten 
yolks of 8 eggs and the whites of 4 ; sweeten 
with powdered sugar, and season with lemon 
and nutmeg ; bake in a dish bordered with 
paste. 



Sams an& fellies 

APPLE MARMALADE 

Pare and cut the apples into small pieces ; 
weigh and put them into a pan, adding half 
a pound of sugar to each pound of apples ; 
add a stick of cinnamon and the juice of a 
lemon ; place on a brisk fire ; when the ap- 
ples are reduced to a pulp, stir the mixture 
till of a proper consistence, and set aside to 
cool. 

APRICOT CHEESE 

Pare and stone the apricots, and place in a 
bain-marie ; when soft pass them through a 
sieve ; weigh the pulp, and allow three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar to each pound of 
pulp; place in a pan and stew for three- 
quarters of an hour. 



JAMS AND JELLIES HQ 

APRICOT JAM 

Pare and stone the apricots ; sprinkle pow- 
dered sugar over them, in the proportion of 
a pound of sugar to each pound and a half of 
apricots, and allow them to stand for twelve 
hours. Blanch the stones, and put them 
with the fruit and sugar in a pan ; allow 
them to simmer for an hour; take out the 
apricots; boil the syrup a little longer; re- 
move the scum; put the apricots into the 
jars, and pour the syrup over them. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

Pick C) pounds of raspberries; place them 
in a pan with a pint and a half of currant- 
juice; boil for twenty minutes; skim, and 
add 4 pounds of sugar ; boil for an hour, be- 
ing careful to remove the scum as it rises; 
put into jars, and cover. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY 

Allow 1 pound of sugar to every pint of 
strawberry juice. The juice should be boiled 
about twenty minutes before the sugar is 
added, and about fifteen minutes after it is 
added. 



Sanfcwicbes anfc Savory /IDorsels 

Sandwiches should be very small and 
dainty, scarcely more than a mouthful, and 
always tastefully arranged on the dish. 
When sandwiches are rolled they should be 
tied with fancy ribbons and piled on the 
plate in log-cabin style ; others may be cut 
into fancy shapes with cutters, such as stars, 
crescents, circles, etc. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICHES 

One sandwich loaf, 3 anchovies, 4 ounces 
of butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, seasoning, and a 
little nutmeg. Cut the loaf very thin ; bone 
the anchovies, and pound them with the 
butter, egg, seasoning, and nutmeg; spread 
a little on each slice of bread, roll them, dish 
in a pyramid, and garnish with parsley. 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORY MORSELS 121 
ANCHOVY CREAM-TOAST SANDWICHES 

Fry some slices of bread in boiling lard, 
dry and spread with anchovy paste ; make a 
thick mayonnaise sauce, add to it some 
chopped capers, chervil, queen olives, and 
a bit of shallot. Spread on the fried bread, 
form into sandwiches, and serve with cresses. 

AMERICAN SANDWICHES 

Chop half a pound of ham very fine, to- 
gether with 2 chopped pickles, mustard, salt 
and pepper to taste. Beat 6 ounces of but- 
ter to a cream, add the chopped ham, and 
mix well. Cut thin slices of bread, spread 
with the mixture, press together, cut into dia- 
monds, and garnish with parsley. 

CHICKEN CREAM SANDWICHES 

Mix a cupful of white chicken meat and 
celery, chopped very fine, with a cup of 
milk. Add a boiled onion mashed, and 
thicken with 2 tablespoonf uls of corn-starch. 
It must be quite thick. When cooked and 
boiling, stir carefully into it the whites of 2 
eggs beaten very stiff ; add salt to taste. Place 



122 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

in a bain-marie ; do not allow to boil. Stir 
in the jnice of half a lemon and a tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Mould the day before; cut 
into slices and place between thin slices of 
buttered bread. 

ELITE SANDWICHES 

Take cold beef, boiled tongue, ham, and 
cold roast turkey in equal proportions ; chop 
Yevy fine, and stir well together in a bowl. 
Chop up pickled gherkins and stuffed olives. 
Make a salad dressing and pour over the 
whole ; mix well, and place between thin but- 
tered slices of bread. 

FRENCH SANDWICHES 

Chop 1 cup of white meat of a chicken, 
3 olives, 1 gherkin, and a tablespoonful of 
capers ; add half a pint of mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and thin with a tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. Spread on thin slices of bread, roll, 
and tie with ribbons. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES 

Mince hard-boiled eggs very fine, spread 
evenly upon neatly cut pieces of buttered 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORY MORSELS 123 

bread ; grate over the egg a little prime 
cheese, add salt and paprika to taste. 

SPANISH SANDWICHES 

Bone 12 oil-preserved anchovies, and cut 
into strips about an inch long. Make into 
a paste with 1 ounce of capers and a sprig 
of parsley, adding a dash of paprika, half a 
teaspoonful of mixed mustard, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoon ful of 
oil, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, and salt. 
Mix smooth ; chop the whites of the eggs. 
Butter thin slices of bread, spread with the 
paste and sprinkle over them the chopped 
whites. Trim and tie with narrow colored 
ribbons. 

SALMON SANDWICHES 

One can of salmon, half a pint of mayon- 
naise dressing, 1 tablespoonful of capers, and 
a little chives. Chop the salmon, chives, and 
capers together very fine. Mix in the dress- 
ing, and spread on thin slices of bread. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Chop together boned sardines, 2 hard- 



124 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

boiled eggs, 5 olives. Mix well, adding some 
of the oil of the sardines, lemon-juice, French 
mustard, and salt. Spread on thin slices of 
bread, and roll. 

PARISIAN SANDWICHES 

A quarter of a pound of cooked beef 
tongue, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, 2 
ounces of butter, 3 truffles, seasoning, and 
water-cress. Pound the ham and tongue in 
a mortar; when quite smooth add the season- 
ing, nutmeg, and butter; mix well together. 
Chop the truffles very fine, and add them to 
the mixture. Spread on thin slices of bread, 
sprinkle a few cresses over the paste, and pair. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES 

Half a pound of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of mixed mustard, 3 tablespoonfuls of oil, a 
little paprika, salt, the yolk of 1 egg. Mix 
together very smooth and set on the ice. 
Chop some ham and tongue in equal propor- 
tions, and blend all well together. Cut the 
bread very thin, spread with the mixture, 
and roll. 



SANDWICHES AND SAVORY MORSELS 125 
TOOTHSOME SANDWICHES . 

One pound cooked chicken, 4 ounces of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoon- 
f ul of ground mace, half a nutmeg, and a 
slice of ham. Chop the chicken and the 
ham with the butter, add the spices, and 
pound to a paste. Spread on thin slices 
of bread, pile on a dish, and garnish with 
parsley. 

VEAL SANDWICHES 

To 1 cup of chopped veal and 1 hard- 
boiled egg add 2 ounces of butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of catsup, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix well, and spread on thin slices of bread. 

VALENTINE SANDWICHES 

Chop together 1 cup of chicken meat, 6 
button mushrooms, add salt and pepper, and 
half a pint of mayonnaise dressing. Spread 
on thin slices of bread, cut into the shape of 
hearts, and garnish with parsley. 

ZEPHYKETTE SANDWICHES 

Kub to a paste 1 small Neufchatel cheese, 
1 ounce of butter, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 



126 COLD DISHES FOR HOT WEATHER 

eggs, and half a teaspoonful of paprika. 
Mix with the whites of the eggs, and spread 
on zephyrette biscuits or on thin slices of 
bread. 



THE END 



REFERENCE-BOOKS FOR WOMEN 



THE EXPERT WAITRESS. By Anne T. Springsteen. lGmo, 

Cloth, $1 00. 

OUR HOME PETS: How to Keep Thera Well and Happy. By 
Olive Thorn e Millke. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

THE TECHNIQUE OF REST. By Anna C Braokett. 16mo, 
Cloth, To cents. 

WHAT TO EAT : HOW TO SERVE IT. By Christine Terhune 
Heruiok. lGmo, Cloth, $1 00. 

HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASY. By Christine Teriidne IIhr- 
riok. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

CRADLE AND NURSERY. By Christine Teruune IIerriok. 
16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

FAMILY LIVING ON $500 A YEAR. By Juliet Corson. lGmo, 
Cloth, $1 25. 

THE HOUSE COMFORTABLE. By Agnes Bailey Ormsbee. 
16mo, Cloth, $1 00. 

CHOICE COOKERY. By Catharine Owen. lGmo, Cloth, $1 00. 

MANNERS AND SOCIAL USAGES IN AMERICA. By Mrs. 
John Sherwood. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25. 

PRACTICAL COOKING AND DINNER-GIVING. By Mary F. 
Hendeuson. Illustrated. 12mo, Water-proof Cover, $1 50. 

DIET FOR THE SICK. By Mary F. Henderson. Illustrated. 
12mo, Cloth, $1 50. 

MOTHERS IN COUNCIL. 16mo, Cloth, 90 cents. 

MONEY-MAKING FOR LADIES. By Ella Rodman Ciidrou. 
16mo, Cloth, 90 cents. 

Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, New York. 

For sale by all booksellers, or will be sent by the publishers, postpaid, on 
receipt of price. 




wmmmmmmmfmMm^w* 




