TX 

115 

J?652 





t 1 f jIh l^!nnljJvi*'j 

Slnli 1 ill) I'll nPi- >li ii'l 




J ||| 



,i 


will iSr nil hMHiil^MiHii^PHK^niU^Ul jf J?<w!^ ?• iU; 
'iilliniillilnhl in fill' jliMpli' vis ttntHfflfuRunillttil 








x ^. 



I 



























* ^ 

' 









OQ 



'■ 






- **u, 






% 




o5 "^ 


















i? 






^ 




























■'■■*. A* "^ 









V* 







^ 









o. * 









v V , 






%* 









■ 






. \ 



© o 












'-^ 






^> s s 






>% 



- 

•V s r » 















» , X N % = 





































\ 






























v^ 



-V 

^ .A ^ 









" 

a. 



-^ 



a 

•^ 







THE ECONOMIST. 

A PRACTICAL COMMON SENSE 

. . COOK BOOK . . 

PUBLISHED FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE 

NEW UNIVERSALIST CHURCH, 

CANTON, NEW YORK. 



COMPILED BY 



Sara T. Robertson. Sarah S. Caldwell. 



1896. 






VVUO-^A 



4^ 






Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1896, by 

Sara T. Robertson, Sarah S. Caldwell, 

In the Office of The Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



PLAINDEALER PRESSES, 
CANTON, N. Y. 



PREFACE. 

"With apron neat, and face so sweet 
It pays all eyes for looking, 
The Yankee wife, as sure as life, 
Can beat the world in cooking." 

This little volume does not claim to be an elaborate 
treatise on cooking, and may fall far short of the con- 
ventional standard of professional work. But for the 
recipes contained in it we have no apology. The 
names attached are a guarantee of their excellence. 
The aim has been to get simple rules, which could be 
easily followed, and would give best results, with least 
expenditure of time and money. A few came in too 
late to be placed in regular order and will be found 
under head of Additional Recipes. 

When you consider how much depends on good 
cooking, its value cannot be over-estimated. Napoleon 
was said to have lost the battle of Waterloo through a 
ht of indigestion, (due doubtless to poor cooking and 
the need of such simple, healthful formulae as this book 
contains). It may be further illustrated by the follow- 
ing incident: Some years ago the Trustees of St. 
Lawrence University met— just before dinner— and 



4 

voted that the condition of the College was so critical 
that its doors must be closed, but after an adjournment, 
and a dinner served by the ladies of Canton, they met 
and rescinded that action. 

The skill in cooking which did such good service on 
that occasion still characterizes our ladies, and has 
again been given to a good cause, and will be found 
embodied in the recipes contained in this little book. 
We desire to make our grateful acknowledgment to 
the ladies of Canton and our friends in various locali- 
ties, who have placed at our disposal their choicest 
recipes, and to the business men for their courteous 
treatment and quick recognition of the benefits to be 
derived from mutual assistance and co-operation in the 
way of all worthy enterprises. 

We hope their advertisements will not be overlooked, 
and that they may reap such benefits as could not have 
entered into their calculations in assisting this work. 



SOUPS. 

CHEESE SOUP. 

One cup milk, one tablespoonful flour, one table- 
spoonful butter, one tablespoonful grated cheese, a 
tiny speck of cayenne pepper, a little salt; lastly, add 
one beaten egg, which will make it the consistency 
of custard. If a thinner soup is desired add more 
milk or the flour may be omitted. Serve immediately. 

Margaret Forbes. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Four large potatoes, three large onions, six or eight 

stocks of celery. Chop all the vegetables very fine and 

place in an earthen kettle and cover with boiling water; 

stir often until cooked, then add one quart of milk and 

let boil; add butter, pepper and salt to taste. This 

receipt will serve six persons. 

Mrs. Myron Nickerson. 

CELERY SOUP. 

One head celery, one pint water, one pint milk, one 
tablespoonful chopped onion, one tablespoonful butter, 
one tablespoonful flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
half saltspoonful pepper. Wash and scrape the celery, 
cut into half-inch pieces, put it into one pint of boiling- 
salted water and cook until very soft; mash in the 
water in which it was boiled; cook the onion with the 
milk in a double boiler ten minutes, and add it to the 
celery ; rub all through a strainer and put it on to boil 



again ; cook the butter and flour together in a small 
saucepan until smooth, but not brown, and stir it into 
the boiling soup; add the salt and pepper; boil five 
minutes and strain into the tureen. 

Mrs. J. Barber. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Boil three pounds of veal in three quarts water with 
a few slices of carrot, onion and turnip, about three 
hours; add salt and pepper ; strain; add a teaspoon 
of vermicelli and boil one-half hour. There should be 
two quarts of soup. s> c> 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 
One quart black beans, soak over night in water 
enough to cover, add next morning ten quarts water, 
one pound salt pork cut in squares, two pounds fresh 
lean beef, six middle sized onions, one large carrot, 
one turnip; chop all vegetables. One-half hour be- 
fore dinner strain, adding salt, pepper and ground 
cloves (to taste distinctly), one-half lemon sliced thin, 
three or four hard boiled eggs cut in squares, one cup 
port or sherry if you like. Half of this quantity is 
sufficient for two ordinary dinners. 

Mrs. H. D. Ellsworth. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

One can tomatoes ; cook and strain ; a pinch of soda, 
one stick of cinnamon and four cloves; boil with a ham 
bone; strain through a wire sieve; add one quart 
boiling milk; thicken with one tablespoon cornstarch; 
add a small piece of butter, pepper and salt. Serve 
at once - Miss Sullivan. 



7 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

One quart black beans, boiled until tender, put 

through a sieve ; add a little stock, two lemons cut 

fine with rind, four hard boiled eggs cut fine. 

L. W. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Four medium-sized potatoes, three stalks of celery 
cooked with potatoes and one onion cut fine; when 
tender put through a sieve, add one quart of boiling 
milk, half a cup of boiled rice, pepper and salt to taste. 
Add stock if you like. S. S. Caldwell. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One quart tomatoes, one quart of water or stock, 
one-half cup butter, one-half cup flour, cooked together, 
salt and pepper; one-half cup cream or one cup milk 
added last thing. Mrs. H. D. Ellsworth. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Take two onions, cut and brown in a hot buttered 
pan, add one quart of tomatoes; cook well; pepper 
and salt, strain, having one quart of hot milk ready ; 
add tomatoes, adding rolled crackers just before serv- 
ing. s - c - 

TOMATO SOUP, WITH STOCK. 

One quart stock, one quart tomatoes, one teaspoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt, one saltspoon pepper. Stew 
tomatoes until soft enough to strain; rub all but the 
seeds through the strainer; add sugar, salt and pep- 
per; add all to the boiling stock. 

— Mrs. Lincoln 's Cook Book. 



WHITE SOUP. 

One quart of stock from boiled chicken, one small 
onion grated, saltspoon salt, one-half spoon black pep- 
per, one-half cup boiled rice. Heat and serve, s. c. 

TAPIOCA CREAM SOUP. 

One quart white stock (chicken or veal), one pint 
cream or milk, one onion, two stalks of celery, one- 
third cup of tapioca, one cup cold water, one table- 
spoon of butter. Wash tapioca and soak over night 
in the cold water; cook it in the stock gently for about 
one hour; cut the onion and celery into small pieces 
and put on to cook for 20 minutes with the milk and 
a little mace; strain on the stock and tapioca; season 
with salt and pepper. Serve in cups with a little 
whipped cream added the last thine 

o 

Mrs. Hannah Gale. 



FISH, OYSTERS AND GAME. 

CREAM SALMON. 

Drain the oil from a can oi salmon and chop fine; 
rub two tablespoonfuls of flour into two of butter and 
stir into a pint ol boiling milk until smooth; season 
with salt and pepper; butter a pudding dish; put in a 
laver of salmon, then one of bread crumbs and pour 
over some ol the dressing; continue this until all is 
used, having bread crumbs on top; sprinkle a few bits 
ol butter on top and bake until brown. 

Mrs J. Stanley Ellsworth. 

FISH OR SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon broken and free from bones, white 
of one egg, beaten stiff, two tablespoons sweet cream, 
a pinch ol salt; stir and bake fifteen minutes in a pan 
ot boiling water. Eat with drawn butter sauce. 

Mrs. Ada Dies. 

TURBOT A LA CREME. 

Any kind of cold baked or boiled fish minced very 
hue; make a sauce with two cups milk, one table- 
spoonful ot Hour mixed with one tablespoonful melted 
butter; add the flour and butter to the boiling milk; 
cook until thick; season with salt, pepper and a very 
little chopped onion. Put a layer of the fish in a shal- 
low dish, then a layer of the sauce until the dish is 
full. Cover the top with cracker crumbs and bits of 
butter; bake twenty minutes. s. T. R. 



IO 





^rlOCS Family 



vy expense. It's worth 
very pair, and it's worth 
ry pair wear a few weeks 
Now we can make the 
family a good deal light- 
ed every pair we sell you 
faction. If they don't, 
eep store, and you can 
ck without any red tape 

J. H. MCINTOSH. 



A Good Cook 

Planning a cake, pays 
Special Attention to 
the FOUNDATION. 

The Foundation 

Of a Good Dress is a 
Perfect-Fittina; Corset 



Roy 



a l Worcester 
«* CORSETS 




Take the best for rit 
and style. $1 a pair. 



H. S. Whitmarsh's Cash Discount Store, 



OpP os i te Par-li, Canton, INI. "V' . 



1 1 

CREAM FISH. 

Boil a fish weighing tour pounds about twenty 
minutes in salted water: when cooked remove skin 
and flake it, taking out the hones. Boil one quart 
milk; mix butter size ot an egg with three tablespoons 
flour, stirring the hot milk gradually with it; add two 
or three sprigs oi parsley, one-halt chopped onion, a 
little salt and vt-d pepper ; stir on stove until it thickens; 
butter a deep dish, put in a layer of fish, then dressing, 
until your fish is used, having the dressing' on top; 
sprinkle top with bread crumbs and a very little but- 
ter. Bake one-half hour or until a nice brown. 

M. E. Ellsworth. 

FISH A LA CREME. 

One cup scalded milk, stir in one-half cup flour; 

cook; add one cup sweet cream; salt; pick fine any 

kind of fresh fish and put in a pudding dish, first a 

layer of fish, then a layer of dressing, having lastly the 

dressing; bake till a light brown. 

Miss Sullivan. 

• TOMATO SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. 

One can tomatoes, one-half onion, one tablespoon 
flour, one tablespoon sugar, salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook this and strain like any tomato sauce; then take 
a three pound piece of halibut, pour boiling water over 
it and take off the skin; butter the pan in which you 
are to bake the fish and butter three strips of cotton 
cloth; put fish on the strips in the pan and fold the 
strips over on the fish ; pour half of the sauce over it 
and bake three-quarters of an hour in a hot oven: take 
up and pour over the remainder of the hot sauce when 
vou serve it. B. B. 11. 



12 

CREAMED OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

One quart milk, two tablespoons flour, three table- 
spoons butter, pepper and salt. Put milk in double 
boiler, mix butter and flour thoroughly, adding a little 
eold milk; before stirring- into hot milk, cook. One 
pint of oysters ;let simmer in their liquor for about five 
minutes, then skim out, drop into the cream sauce. 
Prepare thin slices of crisp toast, lav on heated platter; 
pour over creamed oysters. Serve at once. 

(Delicious.) Fannie M. Hodskin. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Put one quart oysters on the fire in their own liquor; 
when it begins to boil turn it into hot dish through a 
colander, leaving the oysters in the colander; put 
butter the size of an egg into a sauce pan, sprinkle in 
a tablespoon of flour; let it cook a lew minutes, stir- 
ring well; add, mixing well, one cup of oyster liquor: 
take from fire ; stir in the yolks of two eggs, salt, pep- 
per, lemon juice, nutmeg; beat, return to fire to set 
the eggs; do not boil; put in the oysters. Serve on 
toast. Mrs. Nye. 

OYSTER SHORTCAKE. 

Use any good recipe for the shortcake. Prepare 
the dressing as follows : Take the juice of one quart 
of oysters and let come to a boil with one teacup 
of milk or cream ; make thickening of one-half cup of 
flour and stir into the juice; when it boils put in oys- 
ters and let them curl; before dishing, pepper, salt 
and butter size of an egg; split and butter the short 
cake and put ovsters between and on top. Serve at 
once. Mrs. D. S. Rice. 



13 

BAKED CODFISH. 

Pick very fine one cup <>t codfish ; soak several 
hours in cold water; have ready two cups mashed po- 
tatoes and mix well with one egg, a cup of milk, one- 
half cup of butter, little salt and pepper; put this in a 
baking dish and cover the top with bread crumbs; 
moisten with milk; bake one-hall hour. MRS. N. E. F. 

MOCK BONED TURKEY. 

Take a leg of veal, extract the bone; fill the cavity 
with pieces of fresh pork, beef, tongue and sausage; 
put in a cloth and boil till tender; cool and serve with 
currant jelly. MlSS SULLIVAN, 

CHICKEN CONSERVE. 

The broth of two chickens, one tablespoon cornstarch; 
season with wdiite pepper and salt; three hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced. Mrs. Fobare. 

CHICKEN JELLY. 

Boil a chicken in enough cold water to cover it. 
When tender remove the meat from the bones; chop 
the white and dark separately; season with salt, pep- 
per, and a little chopped onion, celery and herbs, if 
you like, or any kind of spice you prefer, such as mace 
or nutmeg; boil two or three eggs hard, slice them; 
put a layer of dark meat, then eggs, then white meat, 
and so on, in a dish or mold; boil down the liquor in 
which the chicken lias been boiled; season with pep- 
per, salt, and piece of lemon; add one-half box of 
gelatin; pour over the meat till the mold is full. To 
be turned out on a platter, garnished with parsley and 
slices of lemon. Miss. WHITESIDE. 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Boil chickens until tender; when cold, pick not very 
fine. For two chickens use one pint of nice cream; 
just before serving put the chicken and some of the 
stock in which they were boiled, over the fire; heal 
thoroughly; add the cream last, thickened with a lit- 
tle flour or cornstarch. Mrs. George Robinson. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

For a dish holding six quarts, take eight pounds ol 
chicken — cut up chicken, and put in cold water with 
one tablespoon of salt ; put over fire, when it comes to 
a boil lift out with a fork, rinse the kettle, put back in 
cold water and another tablespoonful salt, cook until 
done, then put in earthen dish to cool, when cold re- 
move all large bones, and the neck, slice the breast, 
and divide second joints. For crust, sift three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder with three pints of pastry 
flour, work in one-half pound of butter, mix as soft as 
you can handle, with one cup of sweet milk, and the 
whites of two eggs beaten light. Put around the top 
of the dish a strip of crust about two inches wide. 
Place chicken in dish, arranging in layers: putting- 
pieces of butter and white pepper on each layer and 
more salt il required. Take one quart ol chicken 
broth, when cool and free from grease, put on fire, 
when boiling stir in one-half cup ol flour wet with a 
little milk, strain and beat in one-half cup of butter 
and one cup of sweet cream, pour on the chicken. 
Take the remainder of crust, roll out just large enough 
for top of pie, before putting on pie mark off crust in 
squares cutting nearly through, wet crust on pie with 
cold water, put on top crust and press the edges tight; 
bake one hour. Mrs. Edward Haley. 



15 

CHICKEN PATTIES. 

One pint of cream, one pint of milk. Put on to fire 
cold; when scalding hot add two tablespoons flour 
and two of butter stirred to a cream; then put in the 
hot milk; salt and pepper to taste. One quart ot boil- 
ed chicken cut fine; make a puff paste and line the 
patty tins and bake; then fill them with the mixture 
and serve hot. Mabel Bui. lis. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

One quart of oysters, drained of their liquor; butter 
a pudding dish; put a layer of rolled crackers or fine 
bread crumbs, then a layer of oysters, with salt and 
pepper and plenty of butter cut in small pieces; con- 
tinue alternate layers until the dish is nearly full, hav- 
ing crackers on top ; beat one egg in a cup of milk and 
pour over the top; bake one hour. MRS. C. A. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Put solid oysters into a pan with a generous bit ol 
butter, with some salt and pepper; cover tightly and 
shake the pan occasionally. Have ready some dry 
toasted bread, and when the oysters are steamed plump 
turn on the toast and serve immediately. A. E. B. 

BALTIMORE BROILED OYSTERS. 

Procure selects; rinse and drain them well through 
a colander. Put on top ot the stove a large dripping 
pan with lard to the depth of about an inch. When 
the lard is very hot put in the oysters, stirring them 
about till they are cooked without being shriveled. 
Care must be taken to prevent the oysters from stick- 
ing to the pan. Season with salt. C. P. Gaines. 



i6 

PHILADELPHIA SCRAPPLE. 

Take bits of cold fowl, or any kind of cold meat, or 
two or three kinds together; cut up small; put in fry- 
ing pan with water to cover; season well; when it 
boils thicken with corn meal stirred in carefully, like 
mush and about as thick; cook a short time; pour in- 
to a dish to mould : slice off and fry for breakfast, s.c. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large sized oysters; drain and dry; dip in 
beaten egg; roll in fine cracker crumbs; fry quickly 
in hot butter and lard. MRS. C. A. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

One quart bowl of raw potato, cut in small pieces, 
one-half bowl of picked codfish; boil together until 
potatoes are done, then drain ; mash ; add one egg, 
small piece of butter; beat as you would a cake fifteen 
minutes, dropping into smoking hot lard from the 
spoon, the size desired; turn with wire spoon; when 
nicely browned take out into dish with brown paper 
in bottom before putting in dish to be served in. No 
salt is needed. S. S. Caldwell. 



MEATS. 



VEAL CUTLET. 

The nicest cutlets are from the round, about half an 
inch thick; season with pepper and salt, dip into beaten 
egg, then into flour. Having ready a skillet with salt 
pork gravy, lay in veal carefully and cook slow until 
a nice brown. Be careful in turning to prevent the 
crust from dropping off. It is well to use a cake 
turner. When done take out and make a gravy with 
the addition of a little water and flour if desired. 

Mrs. Mary Simmons. 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a rump steak an inch thick, making a stuffing 
of bread, herbs, etc., and spread it over the steak; 
roll it up, and with a needle and course thread sew it 
together; lay it in an iron pot on one or two wooden 
skewers, and put in water just sufficient to cover it; 
let it stew slowly lor two hours, longer if the beef is 
tough ; serve it in a dish with the gravy turned over 
it. To be carved crosswise, in slices through beef 
and stuffing. Mrs. FANNIE HODSKIN. 

DEVILED BEEF OR FORK. 

Take slices ol cold roast beet or pork, lav them on 
hot coals and broil; season with pepper and salt; serve 
while hot with a small lump of butter on each piece. 

Mrs. Mary Simmons. 



I«p 



♦ YECETABI 
STREET. 



KIR SEA. 



4TC 



V 



D. W. SHERWIN 






.Has a Fine Line of. 



Flour, Feed and Groceries! 

CHOICE TEA AND COFFEE A SPECIALTY. 

The Best Patent Bread and Pastry Flour! 

CHOICE CIGARS AND TOBACCO, &c. 
Our goods are all fresh, and will be sold at small profit. 

Opposite Haven House Park, Main St., Canton. 



Biskits, Bred, Pize, Kakes & Doknuts 

ARE FINE THINGS TO HAVE AROUND, 

S y w°a u „ t PHOTOS! ri" £" WELL5! 

There is nothing in the Photographic 
line which he is not able to supply. 

Not "A.s^ Good", but The Be^t ! 



19 
CROQUETTES. 

Raw pork chopped fine two cups, one medium 
sized onion chopped fine, teaspoonful powered sage, 
one cup bread soaked until soft, salt and pepper to 
taste, two eggs beaten light; mix thoroughly into 
small flat cakes; roll in flour or crumbs, and fry in 
hot lard. MRS. F ANNIE HODSKIN. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS. 

Soak an hour in salted water; drain; parboil; then 
rub well in butter and broil; turn often, and each time 
they are turned roll them in a plate of hot melted but- 
ter, so they need not become hard and dried. 

Mrs. Oliver. 

BROILED CALF'S LIVER WITH BACON. 

Procure a nice calf's liver; cut in thin slices and 
pour boiling water over it; boil over a clean fire, with 
thin slices of breakfast bacon ; season with butter, salt 
and pepper. MRS. T. S. C. 

MEAT LOAF. 

One pound of veal or beef steak chopped fine; three 
eggs, six crackers rolled fine, one tablespoon of salt, 
one of sage, one of butter, four of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon of pepper; mix all together well and bake in a 
round tin; baste well with butter and water when be- 
ginning to brown; bake one- half hour in a moderatelv 
hot oven. Mrs. G. E. Forbes. 

. DUMPLINGS FOR POTPIE. 

Two cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoon- 
tuls baking powder. Stir and drop from spoon ; cover 
and cook twenty minutes. MRS. J. J. MATTESON. 



20 

PRESSED VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds chopped veal, six crackers or bread 
crumbs, one pound fat pork, two eggs, sage, salt, pep- 
per, two-thirds cup milk, one-half cup butter; mix 
well, bake two hours in moderate heat; shape in a 
loaf, bake in earthen dish. Mrs. James Rowland. 

MEAT CROQUETTES. 

One pint cooked meat, chopped fine, one pint of 
milk, three heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, three 
tablespoonfuls butter, one and one-half teaspoonful 
salt, three-fourths teaspoonful celery salt, one saltspoon 
mace, a piece of onion or one-half teaspoonful of onion 
juice, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a dash 
cayenne pepper, two eggs, one pint of dried bread 
crumbs; scald the milk; cook butter and flour to- 
gether till smooth and frothy ; add milk gradually, 
making a stiff white sauce; mix with meat making 
mixture a little thinner than can be handled ; add sea- 
soning and mix thoroughly; spread on plate and set 
away to cool. (This can be made the day before 
using.) Beat eggs until smooth, sprinkle sifted crumbs 
on the bread-board. Take a heaping tablespoonful of 
mixture, roll in crumbs and flatten ends in crumbs, dip 
croquettes in the beaten egg, taking care to cover 
every part with the egg\ remove croquette from egg 
with a wide knife; roll croquette in crumbs again, 
flattening ends with knife. (These can be prepared 
some hours before frying. ) Fry in hot lard ; dry on 
brown paper; have tat hot enough to brown a piece 
of bread in forty seconds; should take one minute to 
cook the croquettes, and send to table immediately. 
(This is very nice.) Nora ATWOOD. 



2 I 

PLAIN CROQUETTES 

That require but a few moments to make out of "left 
overs" and make a nice breakfast dish. One cup of 
cold mashed potatoes, three or four tablespoonfuls of 
finely chopped cooked meat, one beaten egg, one tea- 
spoonful of butter; season with salt and pepper, add 
other seasonings it desired ; mix all together, mold 
either round or oblong in shape, and roll in flour; fry 
in hot lard; when browned they are cooked; dry on 
brown paper. Mrs. I. M. Atwooi>. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

One solid pint of finely chopped cooked chicken, one 
tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, one 
cupful of cream or chicken stock, one tablespoonful oi 
flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful ot onion juice, one 
tablespoonful ot lemon juice, one pint of breadcrumbs, 
three tablespoonfuls of butter. Put the cream or stock 
on to boil; mix the flour and butter together and stir 
into the boiling cream, then add the chicken and sea- 
soning; boil for two minutes and add two of the eggs 
well beaten ; take from the fire immediately and set 
away to cool; when cold shape and try. 

Miss Parloa. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

( )ne large cupful of cooked rice, half a cupful of 
milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one of but- 
ter, half a teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg. Put 
milk on to boil and add rice and seasoning; when it 
boils up add the egg well beaten; stir one minute, 
then take off and cool; when cold shape and roll in 
egg and crumbs; fry in boiling fat. Miss PARLOA. 



22 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Mash boiled potatoes fine, stir into them the yolk of 
one egg with salt, pepper and make them into cro- 
quettes, dip them into a beaten egg, roll in cracker 
crumbs and brown in a quick oven or fry in lard. 

Mrs. Davis. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Break one-quarter of a pound of macaroni in three- 
inch pieces and put into three pints o( boiling salted 
water; boil twenty minutes or until soft; drain and 
pour cold water through it to cleanse and keep it from 
sticking; cut into inch pieces; put in a shallow baking 
dish and cover with a white sauce, made with a cup 
and a half of hot milk, one tablespoonful of butter and 
one tablespoonful of flour, cooking according to direc- 
tions for white sauce; add half a teaspoon of salt; 
mix two-thirds of a cup of fine cracker crumbs with a 
third of a cup of melted butter, and sprinkle over the 
top; bake until the crumbs are brown. If cheese be 
liked, one-half a cup of grated cheese, put part of it 
with the macaroni, remainder with crumbs. 

Boston Cook /look. 

ESCALLOPED VEAL. 

Boil until tender four or five pounds of veal cutlet, 
when cold, cut or chop into small pieces ; butter a 
baking dish ; cover the bottom with a layer of the 
chopped veal; add a layer of cracker crumbs; season 
with salt, pepper and butter; continue this until all is 
used; have the last a layer of crumbs ; fill the dish 
with milk and bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Mrs. C. J. Perkins. 



23 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Pare, boil and mash six good sized potatoes; add 
one tablespoonful of butter, two-thirds of a cupful of 
hot cream or milk, the whites of two eggs well beaten, 
salt and pepper to taste. Let the mixture cool slight- 
ly, then shape; roll in egg and crumbs and fry. 

Miss Parloa. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Grind on a sausage grinder three pounds of lean 
beef, and one-fourth of a pound of salt pork ; add to it 
one teacupful of cracker crumbs, three eggs well 
beaten, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful of 
pepper; mix well, and pack tightly in a small bread- 
pan which has been well greased; sprinkle crumbs 
over the top ; bake two and one-half hours ; baste 
while baking with one tablespoonful of butter dissolved 
in one teacupful of boiling water ; slice when cold. 

Mrs. Alvin Ames. 



T he People's Furniture House 

Carries the MOST COMPLETE LINE OF 
FURNITURE,— all modern styles and best 
finish, — at the LOWEST prices ever quoted 
in this county. REPAIRING neatly done 
and satisfaction guaranteed. 

Matthews Block, Canton. M. M. Matlaw, Proprietor. 

•••• •••• 

•••• •••• 

J MOTHERS J 

J BUY THEIR k 

j Children's Clothing ; 

* AT f 

t ^ 

t Remington's Corner Clothing House f 

J MINER BLOCK, CANTON. \ 

•••• •••• 

•••• •••• 



JAMIESON BROS. 

Are Headquarters for 

HARDWARE! TINWARE 

— Plumbing and Heating Work. — 

Agents for- the eel e t>r-eitecA Magee F?.-^i i~i gr« 
Einci Qtiiolimeal Gasoline SSto-ve:-*. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 



APPLE AND CELERY SALAD. 

One day at the house of a charming friend 

From dishes of dainty blue, 
1 ate something- good, which puzzled me much; 

The secret I'll tell to von. 

"This looks like salad, my dear," said I, 
"'Tis celery surely I see; 

And mayonnaise, yellow and thick and rich — 
What may this rare flavor be?" 

"A firm spicy apple," she said with a smile, 
"Cut into pieces, like dice. 
1 used equal parts, with celery white, 
And my salad was made in a trice." 

Harriet L. Russell. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE, FOR BAKED OK 
BOILED FISH. 

One-halt cup butter, yolks oi two eggs, juice ot one- 
half lemon, one saltspoontul salt, one-fourth saltspoon- 
ful cayenne pepper, one-hall cup boiling water; rub 
the butter to a cream in a small bowl with a wooden 
or silver spoon; add the yolks, one at a lime, and beat 
well; then add the lemon juice, salt and pepper ; about 
five minutes before serving, add the boiling water, 
plaee the bowl in a saucepan oi boiling water and stii 
rapidly until it thickens like boiled custard ; pour the 
sauce around the meat or fish. Mrs. Lincoln". 



26 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

One large head of lettuce ; wash each leaf separate- 
ly ; shake free from water; cut or tear them in large 
pieces; mix the French dressing with them when 
ready to serve. M. s. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Boil fifty oysters in their own liquor until they are 
plump ; skim them out, and stir into them three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar well seasoned with pepper and 
salt; prepare a pint of cut celery, and when ready to 
serve, mix the oysters with celery, and add any good 
cooked salad dressing, made without sugar; garnish 
with celery leaves. Mrs. T. M. Wells. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR VEGETABLES, CHICKEN, 
EGGS, ETC. 

One pint milk or half milk and half white stock, two 
tablespoonfnls of butter, two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half saltspoonful 
pepper. Heat the milk over hot water; put the but- 
ter in a granite saucepan and stir till it melts and bub- 
bles, be careful not to brown it; add the dry flour and 
stir quickly till well mixed; pour on one-third of the 
milk; let it boil and stir well as it thickens, tip the 
saucepan slightly to keep the sauce from sticking; add 
another third of the milk, let it boil up and thicken 
and stir vigorously till perfectly smooth ; be sure that 
all the lumps are rubbed out while it is in this thick 
state, then add the remainder of the milk; let it boil, 
and when smooth add the salt and pepper, using more 
if high seasoning be desired. Boston Cook Book. 



27 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cook until tender one chicken ; remove all bones 
while warm ; when cold cut in small pieces, adding 
half as much celery as you have chicken; mix with 
one recipe of French dressing given; do not mix until 
just before serving; keep on ice until ready to serve; 
garnish to suit taste with whipped cream in center of 
dish. S. C. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One layer of cold boiled potato, a sprinkling of 
onion, one hard boiled egg cut in slices, pepper and 
salt. One-third of the dressing given below, then re- 
peat until you have three layers, using any kind of 
tender meat, chicken or fish in each layer if desired. 
Dressing — Yolk of one egg, beaten; add one-halt tea- 
spoon dry mustard, three tablespoons of cream — sweet 
or sour — added slowly, beating constantly; add one 
tablespoon vinegar, white of egg, beaten; set in cool 
place until time to serve. S. c. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING FOR 
VEGETABLES. 

One cupful sour cream, one teaspoonful of salt, a 
dust of cayenne, one tablespoonful ol lemon juice, 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful of 
sugar. David. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Three eggs, one teaspoon black pepper, one table- 
spoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, coffee cup vinegar. 
Beat eofofs, add other ingredients; when smooth cook 
until it thickens; when ready to serve add one-half 
cup whipped cream, or more if you have it. MRS. T. C. 



2 8 

LETTUCE DRESSING. 

One cup vinegar, one tablespoon, or more if desired, 
of olive oil, two tablespoons granulated sugar, pepper 
and salt to laste. Serve lettuce with hard boiled e^s, 
using dressing same as plain vinegar. David. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-half saltspoonful of pepper: put 
the salt and pepper in a cup, and add one tablespoon- 
ful ol the oil; when thoroughly mixed add the re- 
mainder of the oil, and the vinegar. This is dressing 
enough for six persons. Add a little onion juice to 
the dressing if you like. New Look Hook. 

MADE MUSTARD. 

Four tablespoonfuls of best mustard, two teaspoon- 
fuls celery salt, two teaspoonfuls sugar, two teaspoon- 
fuls salad oil, one teaspoonlul pepper, vinegar to make 
a smooth paste. Mrs. A. Z. Squires. 

FRENCH MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

For 20 to 25 persons. Four hard boiled eggs (twen- 
ty minutes is the right time to boil them), pulverize 
the yolks when perfectly cold; add two raw yolks and 
stir until smooth ; pour in it, drop by drop, one pint 
of olive oil stirring all the time in the same direction 
and very slowly and regularly and with a wooden spoon. 
Dissolve in a separate bowl one teaspoon of English 
mustard in a little cold water; add to that about one 
teaspoon of salt, some black and red pepper and one 
teacup of vinegar; pour it slowly into the mayonnaise 
stirring it in, and stopping or adding to that seasoning 
according to taste. Mrs. Liotard. 



2 9 

GERMAN MAYONNAISE SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat two ounces <>l butter to a cream ; boil four 
eggs twenty-five minutes, take the yolks, rub them 
fine with a silver fork or spoon, and mix with the but- 
ter; add the yolks of three eggs raw, salt to taste, 
lour tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, (a few drops at a 
time); one tablespoonful of vinegar and one of lemon 
juice; put on the ice to harden and add one gill of 
cream, whipped, just before using. 

Mrs. A. Z. Squires. 



T A ' I YOUR ATTENTION is called to the artistic 

L^/£tCllCS manner in which SHIRTWAISTS, LADIES' 
* COLLARS and CHEMISETTES are laundered 
at the CANTON STEAM LAUNDRY. Also, we will launder your 
LACE CURTAINS to look as good as new and GUARANTEE no injury 
to the finest fabric. We become responsible for all injury to goods while 
being laundered. We respectfully solicit a share of your patronage 

CANTON STEAM LAUNDRY, ?£%££%££& 



<^E. E. STEVENS^ 

lBool\ and Stationery <§)tore 

MAIN STREET, = = CANTON, N. Y. 

A Fine Line of Stationery and Blank Books 

Constantly on Hand 

Wall Paper and Window Shades a Specialty 

PICTURES FRAMED ON SHORT NOTICE 

Hammocks, Croquet Sets, Baby Carriages, Wagons, Sleds, Skates, Base 
Ball Goods, — and, in fact, all kinds of Sporting Goods, — con- 
stantly on hand. You will find my prices right. 

ive me a call. E. E. STEVENS. 



E. L. H E ATO N batches and 
„^ w Diamonds! 



LATEST NOVELTIES IN 
JEWELRY AND SILVERWARE- 

Fine Wa,c„ "jg^ Mai]1 $U Q^^ N . y. 



VEGETABLES. 



HERB OR ONION OMELET. 

Six eggs, one teacup milk, one tablespoon flour, one 
tablespoon melted butter, few sweet herbs or onion 
tops chopped fine, salt and pepper ; separate whites 
and yolks of eggs; beat yolks, to which add milk, but- 
ter, flour wet to paste; add herbs and salt; beat 
whites of eggs, add last; pour into hot, well buttered 
frying pan and stir gently with flat knife until thickens, 
taking care not to strike knife through to pan ; double 
over one-half and serve at once. 

Mrs. Dr. Hawley. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Cut cabbage half as fine as for salad ; put in porce- 
lain dish, season with pepper and salt, adding milk 
until cabbage is nearly covered ; bake one hour. Corn 
can be cooked the same way. Miss Edna Hurd. 

PEAS WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Put one quart of peas in a kettle of salted boiling 
water and cook fifteen minutes; drain, put a table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan ; add a tablespoonful 
of flour, mix ; add a cup of milk; stir constantly until 
boiling; add salt, pepper and then the peas; stand 
over boiling water about five minutes and serve as gar- 
nish to baked, broiled or fried sweetbreads. 

Mrs. S. T. Rorers Cook Book. 



32 

POTATO PUFFS. 

One quart, mashed potato, one cup (small) butter, 
one cup sweet milk, teaspoon salt; have potato fresh 
boiled ; mash ; add butter, milk and salt ; beat four 
eggs separately and add last ; bake twenty minutes. 
Mrs. J. Stanley Ellsworth. 

CREAM POTATOES. 

Cream two tablespoons of flour with a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg. Put one-half pint ot milk on 
stove; when it is just warm stirin two eggs well beaten 
and flour and butter; then stir in chopped potatoes 
(salted), and let come to a boil. Mrs. D. S. Rick. 

POTATOES DUCHESSE. 

Boil and press through a sieve half a dozen fine po- 
tatoes, there must be no lumps; add a gill of thick 
sweet cream, the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt and 
a pinch of nutmeg ; the mixture must be thoroughly 
smooth. Take a tablespoonful at a time and form in- 
to a ball; brush the top well with beaten tgg; set in 
the oven until a light brown. Mrs. L. R. Curtis. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Choose large, smooth tomatoes, slice off the stem 
ends and with the finger scoop out the seeds ; put a 
cup of stale bread crumbs in a bowl ; add a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped onion, halt teaspoonful of salt, dash of 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of melted butter; fill the 
tomatoes with this stuffing, heaping it in the centre; 
place them in a bakingpan, and bake in a quick oven 
thirty minutes; lift them carefully with a cake turner, 
place on a hot dish and serve. H. A. W. COWEN. 



33 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Cut into very thin slices, put them into water over 
night, rinse in cold water, and dry with towel; fry 
light brown in smoking hot lard and dust salt over 
them. s. T. R. 

FRIED SQUASH. 

Pare and cut into slices a quarter of an inch thick; 
dust with pepper and salt; dip in egg, then in bread 
crumbs; put lard into pan ; when hot put in squash; 
brown on one side, then on other, adding more lard 
when needed; drain on brown paper; serve hot. 

Irene Lewis. 

ESCALOPED APPLES. 

Slice apples thick; a layer of apples in baking dish, 
with a sprinkling of flour, butter and brown sugar to 
taste; another layer of apples and proceed in like man- 
ner until dish is full ; bake two hours, covered. S. C. 

RECIPE FOR CANNING CORN. 

Take nice tender green corn, cut from the cob and 
with the back of the knife scrape the cob to get all the 
sweetness possible. Use perfect jars, sweet and clean. 
Put in the corn, pack tightly with the small end of 
your potato masher ; when the jar is full put on the 
coyer and screw as tightly as you can with the hand ; 
put a cloth in the bottom of your wash boiler, lay in 
the jars, putting cloths between to prevent them break- 
ing when the water boils; cover with cold water, put 
on the stove and boil three hours without ceasing; 
then remove them and tighten as tight as possible with 
the can wrench ; keep in a dark, cool place; it is well 
to pack them in sand. Mrs. M. R. FOLSOM. 



34 

ESCALOPED ONIONS. 

Boil till tender, six large onions, afterwards separate 
them with a large spoon, then [.lace a layer of onions 
and a layer of bread crumbs, alternately, in a pudding 
dish; season with pepper and salt to taste ; moisten 
with milk; add small hits ol butter; put in oven to 
brown. s ( . 

RICE FRITTERS. 

One and one-half cups boiled rice, two eggs beaten 
together, flour enough to hold ingredients together, 
pepper and salt, fry in hot lard. s . C. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

To one pint of grated green corn add one vgg 
beaten, one small cup flour, one-half cup butter, (cream 
is better) salt and pepper, mix well, fry in hot lard till 
light brown. s ( . 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

For three people. Pare and cut lengthwise into six 
equal parts lour medium sized potatoes. Let stand in 
cold water an hour or more; drain and wipe dry ; 
cook about ten minutes in a kettle of hot fat, being 
careful not to let them get too brown; sprinkle with 
salt and serve immediately. Mrs. II. LlOTARD. 



PIES, PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



PIEPLANT PIE. 

One cup sugar, well beaten with yolks oi two eggs; 
add one pint of pieplant; bake with one crust, then 
spread beaten whites, with tablespoon sugar over top; 
return to oven a lew moments. Mrs. Richards. 

PIEPLANT I'll-;. 

Cover plate with crust, leaving crust two inches 
larger than plate; fill with pieplant ; add two cups <>l 
sugar, with one tablespoon of flour mixed with it; add 
upper crust, turning lower crusl over top one, pressing 
it firmly so juice will not run out; bake slowly. 

MRS. s. c. 

MAPLE SUGAR PIE. 

Line a pie plate and place in it one large cup of ma- 
ple sugar broken in small pieces, one-half cup of butter; 
beat one-hall cup sweet cream and one egg lightly, 
and add to pie; bake with an upper crust. 

MRS. I I ENRY I [OSLEY. 

APPLE PATTIES. 

Line patty pans with pie crust ; stew apples ; sweeten 
to taste; till patties; sprinkle cinnamon over top; 
bake twenty minutes. Sauce — One cup sugar, butter 
size of egg, cup boiling water; boil five minutes; 
serve patty hot in side dish, with two tablespoons ol 
sauce over each patt v. S. C. 



36 

RAISIN PIE. 

One cup chopped raisins, four tablespoons vinegar, 
one tablespoon corn starch, one cup boiling; water, one 
cup sugar, salt ; mix together, cook on stove, s. c. 

APPLE PIE. 

Stew apples day before using; chop very fine in 
earthen dish ; sweeten to taste; add beaten yolk of one 
egg, butter half size of walnut; season with grated 
lemon rind ; bake with one crust ; add beaten white, 
and brown. s c 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One-half cup stewed and sifted pumpkin, one egg, 
one cup sugar, pinch salt, one-fourth teaspoon each gin- 
ger and cinnamon, one pint milk; grate a little nutmeg 
on to P- Mrs. II. Johnson. 

PICNIC PIES. 

One cup raisins seeded, piece of citron four inches 
square chopped together; put in a bowl and add juice 
and grated peel of one lemon ; one egg beaten light 
with one cup sugar. This makes filling enough for eight 
turnover pies. Mrs. Geo' W . Seymour. 

LEMON TARTS. 
Bake pie crust in patty pans; make filling with one 
cup boiling water, one tablespoon flour; cook in 
double boiler until it thickens; add one cup sugar, 
with juice and grated rind of one lemon; stir together; 
set aside to cool, then fill crusts ; add beaten whites 
with tablespoon sugar over top, and brown in oven; 
this will make ten tarts. s c 



37 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Line a plate with puff paste, cover the bottom with 
fresh, ripe blackberries, and pour over them a custard 
prepared the same as for custard pie. 

Mrs. J. A. Clark. 

LEMON PIE. 

Yolks of two eggs, one cup sugar, grated rind and 
]uice of one lemon, two tablespoons corn starch, mixed 
with a little cold water, and cooked in one cup of 
boiling water. The whites of two eggs with a table- 
spoon of sugar for frosting. 

Mrs. Thomas Miller. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of sour cream, 
one-half cup ol chopped raisins, one-half teaspoonful 
of cloves, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon. Mix in- 
gredients well together and bake in two crusts. 

Mrs. X. Lewis. 

LEMON PIE. 

Take one large lemon, juice and grated rind, one 
cup sugar, and butter size of an egg, in a bowl, stir 
a tablespoon of cornstarch into just enough cold water 
to make it smooth, then add a cup of boiling water; 
set on stove; when it begins to boil, pour it over the 
butter and sugar; stir in the lemon; when cooler stir 
in the beaten yolks of two eggs; pour this into the 
crust, which should be ready ; bake as custard pie; 
beat whites of eggs to stiff froth ; add one tablespoon 
of pulverized sugar; put over pie when taken out ol 
oven; set back and blown slightly. 

Mrs. John \Y. Simmons. 



3« 
DATE PIE. 

Si one one pound dates, stew them in a little water, 
then put through a sieve. For one pie use a cup and 
a half of the dates, two eggs, salt, and a little milk; 
season with cinnamon an 1 a very little snne-er 

Mrs. J. C. Keeler. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Four tablespoons of grated chocolate, one cup sugar, 
yolks of two eggs, butter size of walnut, one cup milk, 
two tablespoons cornstarch ; stir sugar and eggs to- 
gether; add chocolate, butter, milk and cornstarch; 
place on the stove; stir until it boils ; bake the crust, 
I hen add the filling; cover with a frosting made as fol- 
lows; beat whites of two eggs with four tablespoons 
of sugar; set in oven to brown. 

Zona Nickerson. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one agg, 
one-half cup sugar, scant, teaspoon of flour, one-half 
cup raisins; beat cream, sugar and flour together ; lay 
the raisins round on the top; bake with two crusts. 

Mrs. Jas. Rowland. 

TOMATO FILLING FOR PIES. 

One peck green tomatoes, peeled and chopped, five 
pounds brown sugar, two pounds raisins, two lemons, 
two tablespoonfuls each of cinnamon, cloves and all- 
spice, one tablespoonful salt; chop tomatoes; add 
sugar and boil three hours; add raisins, stoned and 
chopped and lemons twenty minutes before done. Can 
for winter use. Cora McIntosh. 



39 
CREAM PIE. 

One cup sour cream, one scant cnj) sugar, one cup 
raisins, stoned and chopped, one tablespoon flour, 
yolks of two eggs, reserving whites for top; bake with 
one crust. Mrs. J. A. Clark. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

One-half box gelatine dissolved in one cup cold 
water, add one cup boiling water, rind of one and 
juice of four oranges and juice ot two lemons, two 
cups sugar; when partly cooled, slice three oranges 
and add, mould, and serve with boiled custard, made 
of one pint milk and yolks of three eggs, one-hall 
cup sugar and one-half tablespoon cornstarch; flavor 
with orange. E. M. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Take five oranges, peel, seed and cut into small 
pieces, sweeten with one coffeecup sugar; have a 
pint of milk boiling hot; add the yolks of three eggs, 
well beaten, one tablespoon ol cornstarch, madesmooth 
with a little cold milk; stir all the time, and as soon 
as thickened pour over the fruit; beat whites to froth, 
adding a tablespoon of sugar, and spread over the top 
for frosting; set in oven a few minutes to harden; 
serve cold or hot (better cold) for dinner or supper; 
berries or peaches can be substituted for oranges. 

Mrs. Kate Hitchcock. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One enp butter, one egg, one cup sugar, four table- 
spoons boiling water. Cook fifteen minutes; when 
cold beat with egg beater ten minutes. 

Mrs. J. W. Simmons. 





4 o 

A Golden Recipe 

^fe. When wishing PHOTOS which are in every 

■?A^* way the Best, — being Artistic in each and 

every particular, call at RUNIONS' Photo 

£«^; Parlors, opposite the park, Canton, N. Y., 

" and you will surely never regret it. 



COAL! 



A - J- Lake. Opera House Bldg. 

Bullis Fancy Store, 

Headquarters for Embroideries 
And Embroidery Materials . . . 

A r^r>;F3 I^INE: OF 

Ladies' Underwear, Hosiery, Gloves, 

VEILINGS AND NOTIONS. 

"V^ill fc» e kept ora Seile. 
Mail Orders will Receive Careful Attention. 



4i 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One pint bread crumbs, one cup molasses, one egg 
well beaten, one cup cold water, one cup flour, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cloves, one teaspoon allspice, salt. Steam three hours. 

MRS. J. W. s. 

MINCE-MEAT. 

Six pounds of round of beet, boiled until tender, 
when cold chop fine, two pounds beef suet chopped, 
one-half peck nice apples, three pounds raisins, stoned, 
three pounds currants, one pound citron, one and one- 
half pounds sugar, one pint molasses, three grated 
nutmegs, four tablespoons of cinnamon, two lemons, 
two oranges, juice and rind, one pint boiled cider, 
and add more when making pies if not moist enough. 

Mrs. George Robinson. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one cup 
raisins, two cups graham flour, one teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful butter, one egg. Steam three hours. 

Mrs. Alvin Aldrich. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons 
maple sugar, one heaping tablespoon cornstarch, flavor 
with almond; cook milk, sugar and cornstarch in 
double boiler, adding yolks of eggs when boiling ; pour 
into pudding dish; cover with meringue made with 
whites of the eggs, and browned in oven ; to be served 
cold. A nice dessert on a holiday. 

M. A. ATWOOD. 



42 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, two cups 
graham flour, one tablespoonful melted butter, one 
teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cinnamon, one-half a 
nutmeg-, raisins and currants to suit. Steam three 
hours. To be eaten with brandy sauce or sweet cream. 

E. A. Sherman. 

RASPBERRY CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Boil one pint of milk and stir into it two tablespoon- 
fuls of cornstarch wet with a little cold water; then 
add two eggs beaten with half a cup of sugar ; put 
one cup of fresh raspberries or raspberry jam in the 
bottom of a dish and pour the custard over it ; eat 
warm, but not hot, with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. D. S. Rice. 

STRAWBERRY COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One-half cup butter, three-fourths cup sugar, one 
egg, two cups flour, one cup milk, two teaspoons 
baking powder; cream butter, add sugar gradually, 
add beaten egg, add flour with baking powder, alter- 
nately with milk; beat well together; pour into but- 
tered pan ; bake about thirty minutes in a moderate 
oven ; cut in squares and serve with stewed and sweet- 
ened strawberries and cream. 

Mrs. Chas. B. Hawley. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

One cup black molasses, one egg, three-fourths cup 
warm water, one teaspoon soda, two full cups of flour. 
Sauce — Two eggs, one cup sugar, one tablespoon but- 
ter; beat all together. Zona Nickerson. 



43 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Three-tourths pound < >f prunes stewed and sweetened; 
remove pits, cutting prunes somewhat; beat the 
whites ot tour eggs, adding prunes gradually, heating 
constantly; turn into a pudding dish; bake twenty 
minutes; serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Robert H. Sackrider. 

BAKED INDIAN MEAL PUDDING. 

One pint sweet milk, butter size of egg, one-half cup 
meal, two eggs, one-half cup raisins, one-half cup 
brown sugar; scald part of the milk, stirring in the 
meal while boiling, then add remaining milk; pinch ot 
salt and other ingredients; turn into a buttered dish; 
bake slowly from one to one and a half hours; stirring 
once in a while the first half hour; serve with whipped 
cream. Mrs. Ernest Sims. 

EGG SOUFFLE. 

One cup scalded milk, two tablespoonfuls flour, one 
tables'poonful sugar, thicken, then cool, and add the 
whites and yolks ot tour eggs beaten separately, a pinch 
ol salt; bake about twenty-five minutes. To eat with 
sauce made of one egg, one cup sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, flour and nutmeg. 

Mrs. Ada Diks. 

BOILED CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

To one quart of boiling milk, stir in one pint and a 
hall of Indian meal well sifted, teaspoon salt, cup ol 
molasses, half cup chopped suet, and one teaspoon of 
soda, dissolved in a little water; tie tight in a cloth, 
allowing room to swell, and boil tour hours; serve with 
sweet sauce, or whipped cream. s. C, 



44 
RICE PUDDING. 

One pint milk, one pint water, four large table- 
spoons of rice, two large tablespoons sugar, one-hali 
cup raisins, one" tablespoon of butter; salt and flavor 
with nutmeg; bake one hour or until the rice is well 
cooked; beware not to let it bake dry, or overdone, 
as it should be milky when taken from the oven, and 
as it cools become creamy. M. A. Atwood. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Add to one quart boiling milk, two well beaten eggs, 
three tablespoons of Indian meal, one tablespoon flour, 
a little salt; beat with an egg-beater; bake three- 
quarters of an hour; serve with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. George L. Gay. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One ounce gelatine, whites of three eggs, one cup 
sugar, juice of three lemons; put gelatine in a pint of 
cold water and let it stand for ten minutes, then put 
it over hot water and let it melt up, then beat it to a 
stiff froth with an egg beater, and add sugar, lemon 
juice, and whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; make 
the yolks up into a soft custard, and serve on the pud- 
din §"- Mrs. D. S. Lynde. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak one cup of tapioca two hours in water, then 
add one quart of water, one teaspoon butter, teaspoon 
lemon extract, pinch salt, enough apples to fill the 
dish, pared and halved; cut out the core and fill the 
hollow left with sugar; bake until the apples are soft; 
serve with shaved maple sugar and cream. 

Mrs. 1. M. Atwood. 



45 
SUET PUDDING. 

One cup suet, chopped, one-half cup sugar, one-half 
cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one cup currants, 
three cups flour, two eggs, one teaspoon of soda; 
season with cloves and cinnamon; steam three hours 
and serve with hot sauce. M. C. ATWOOd. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Stew one pound of nice prunes till very soft and the 
juice very thick; take out the stones, and cut the 
prunes in small pieces; beat to a froth the whites of 
lour eggs; mix with prunes, and bake till there is a 
nice brown crust on top; to be eaten when cold, with 
cream whipped, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla. 

Mrs. H. Liotard. 

FRUIT PUFFS. 

One pint flour, two teaspoon! ids baking powder, a 
little salt, about one pint milk, to make a thin batter; 
grease teacups, and put a spoonful of batter, then one 
of fruit, fresh or canned, another of battel", till about 
half full; steam about twenty minutes; eat with rich 
milk or cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla, or 
the following sauce: Two eggs, one cup sugar, one- 
third cup butter, beaten to a cream, one cup hot milk. 
(Very nice.) Mrs. Wm. Ives. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one and 
one-hali teaspoons soda, two teaspoons cinnamon, one- 
hall teaspoon nutmeg, cup raisins, two and one-half 
cups flour; mix in the order given; steam (wo and 
one-hali hours; serve with whipped cream, adding 
sugar to taste. s. c. 



4 6 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

One-half cup Hour, one-half cup sugar, one pint 
sweet milk, one-fourth cup butter, four eggs, salt; 
stir sugar and flour with milk, taking care that no 
lumps are left in; cook in double boiler until like pan- 
cake batter, then add one-fourth cup butter; salt ; cool; 
add eggs beaten separately; set dish in pan of hot 
water; bake one hour; serve hot with any good pud- 
ding sauce. s _ c 

STEAM BATTER PUDDING. 

One cup milk, one egg, three tablespoons melted but- 
ter, one pint flour, three teaspoons baking powder; 
beat egg; add milk, then butter; flour with baking 
powder; salt ; put in dish half of your batter, then a 
layer of apples or any fruit, then batter; steam one 
hour; serve with sauce or cream ; drain most any kind 
of canned fruit, using fruit in pudding, and juice for 
sauce, stirring in a little flour to thicken, then add a 
small piece of butter; cook; serve hot. s. S. C. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Yolks of two eggs beaten very light, one cup of 
sugar, one tablespoon of flour, add these to the beaten 
yolks, then one-half cup boiling milk in which one 
tablespoon of butter has been melted; flavor, and add 
the well beaten whites of the two eggs; serve im- 
mediately. H. B. Hinckley. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One egg beaten very light, with one cup of sugar; 
flavor, and add a little hot water; serve immediately.' 

H. B. H INKLE V. 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 



LEMON SHERBERT. 

One quart of milk, one pint, of sugar, juice of three 
lemons; mix lemon juice and sugar, then put in the 
milk, slowly; freeze. LENA A. CORBY. 

ICE CREAM. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, sugar and flavoring 
to taste; put milk on to boil over kettle of water; 
when at boiling point stir in sugar and a little salt; 
have the yolks well beaten, and when sugar is dis- 
solved, pour over the eggs, beating- briskly ; pour back 
into pail, Stirling constantly until it begins to thicken; 
take out and add the beaten whites; when ready to 
freeze add one quart of cream, whipped. 

Mrs. Cleland Austin. 

PRUNE JELLY. 

Wash one quart prunes; soak over night in water 
enough to more than cover; soak two ounces of gela- 
tine in cold water enough to cover; in the morning 
boil the prunes in same water; when tender remove 
stones; lav prunes in a mould, then add gelatine to 
prune water; juice and grated rind ol two lemons; 
sweeten to taste; boil five minutes slowly; strain 
through flannel into prunes; when cold eat with sugar 
and cream. Mrs. H. L. MATTESON. 



4 8 

ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream whipped stiff; thin with one 
pint oi milk; one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of 
vanilla; freeze. Sue M. Heatox. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One-half box gelatine put in one pint cold milk; set 
dish in hot water till dissolved ; sweeten to taste, and 
add the beaten yolks of three eggs; flavor with vanilla; 
beat whites to a stiff froth and add to custard while 
hot; beat with egg beater ten minutes; eat with sugar 
and cream. Mrs. Ada Dies. 

STRAWBERRY MOOSE. 

One-half box gelatine, one pint strawberry juice, 
one pint sweet cream; mould; serve with whipped 
cream. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One can grated or one pint fresh fruit, one pint 
sugar, one pint water, one tablespoon gelatine; in 
using fresh pineapple be careful to remove all the eyes. 

Mrs. Lincoln's Cook Book. 

ICE CREAM. 

One quart milk, two cups (small) sugar, one table- 
spoon flour, two eggs; set milk on stove in double 
boiler; add sugar and flour: cook until flour is well 
done; add beaten yolks, with a little cold milk stirred 
into them; stir thoroughly ; take from stove ; salt; 
strain; set in cold place; when ready to freeze add 
one tablespoon vanilla, one quart whipped cream and 
beaten whites; this makes one gallon when frozen. 

Mrs. Parloas Cook Book. 



49 
LEMON SHERBET. 

One tablespoon gelatine, two cups sugar, one quart 
water, juice of six lemons ; when partly frozen add 
beaten whites ol four eggs. s. C. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

One-half box gelatine, one pint coffee, two cups 
sugar, fruit; soak the gelatine in water until soft; 
pour coffee hot, over sugar; add gelatine; strain into 
mould, adding any fruit suitable if desired ; serve with 
whipped cream. s. c. 

CIDER JELLY. 

Two pounds sugar, one pint cider, one pint cold 
water, one package Coxe's gelatine, juice of two 
lemons and grated rind of one, one quart of boiling 
water, one good pinch cinnamon ; soak the gelatine in 
the cold water for one hour; add to this the sugar, 
lemons and cinnamon; pour over all a quart of boiling 
water and stir till the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved; 
put in the cider; strain through a double flannel bag- 
without squeezing; wet your moulds with cold water 
and set the jelly away in them to cool and harden. 

Mrs. Liotard. 



5Q 



Perhaps You 
Didn't Know 



that we sell the finest 



Flavoring Extracts 

in any quantity, and guarantee 
their strength and purity 

Vanilla, Lemon, Orange, Pineapple, 
Almond, Strawberry, 

Raspberry, Banana. 



Of Course You 
Do Know_^^ 

CREAM OF TARTAR, 
° ur SODA, GINGER, &c 

are the best that money can buy 
or care and experience can select. 



*~;r Your Money Back if You Want It. ~©a 

....GEO. S. CONKEY.... 



CAKES AND CAKE FILLINGS. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

One cup of butter Judges v, 25 

Four cups of flour I Kings iv, 22 

Three cups of sugar Jeremiah vi, 20 

Two cups of raisins I Samuel xxx, 12 

Two cups of figs I Samuel xxx, 12 

One cup of water Genesis xxiv, 17 

One cup of almonds Jeremiah i, 1 1 

Six eggs Isaiah x, 14 

One tablespoonful honey Exodus xvi, 21 

One teaspoonful cream Exodus xii, 19 

(Baking powder.) 

A pinch of salt Job vi, 6 

Spices to taste 1 Kings x, 10 

Follow Solomon's advice for mak- 
ing good boys and yon will have 

a good cake Proverbs xxiii, 1 3 

Mrs. Ada Fry. 

NEW ENGLAND FRUIT CAKE. 

One package mince-meat, three tablespoonfuls New 
Orleans molasses; mix thoroughly; add two-thirds 
cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, dissolved in one cup cold coffee; add two 
and two-thirds cups flour, one teaspoonful vanilla; 
stir all the ingredients together briskly and bake slow- 
ly. (A little dried citron if one likes). 

Mrs. Chas. Twombley. 



52 

OCEAN CAKE. 

One cup of milk, two cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, whites of five eggs, two and one-half cups of 
flour, two even teaspoons of baking powder; this 
makes a very nice loaf or layer cake. 

Mrs. Geo. Robinson. 

CREAM CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, three eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, two tablespoons cold water, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda; bake 
in two round tins; filling for cake, one pint cream 
whipped, two tablespoons powdered sugar, one tea- 
spoon vanilla. E . A. Sherman. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one table- 
spoon melted butter, yolk of one egg, one cup sour 
milk, in which dissolve one teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon each cloves and cinnamon, one and one-half cups 
sifted flour, a little salt; bake in two layers, using 
white for frosting; try this, it is good. 

Mrs. Thos. Miller. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Nine eggs, four pounds currants, four pounds raisins, 
one-half pound citron, one pound dates, one-half pound 
figs, one-halt cake chocolate, one pound black sugar 
one pound flour, three gills brandy, one and one-eighth 
pounds butter, one-half pound walnuts, one-half pound 
almonds, one teaspoonful each of mace, cloves, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg. This will keep until the youngest 
daughter is married. Mrs. D. S. Lvnde. 



53 
SPICE LAYER CAKE. 

Three eggs (yolks), one-half cup sugar, one-halt cup 
molasses, one-half cup sour milk, butter size of egg, 
one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cloves, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, little nutmeg, one and one-half 
cups flour. Mrs. Cyrus Bassett. 

CIRCLE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup 
milk, whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two 
coffeecups of flour, two teaspoons baking powder; 
bake in three layers, and use between either cocoanut, 
chocolate or fig paste. Fig filling — One-half pound 
figs, one cup water, one-half cup sugar; cook until 
thickens; when cool spread between. 

Mrs. J. S. Lee. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE WITH LEMON SAUCE. 

One pint flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one and one- 
half teaspoons baking powder, butter size of an egg; 
sift flour, salt and baking powder together, then rub 
in the butter thoroughly ; beat one egg light with two- 
thirds of a cup of milk and stir into the dry mixture; 
spread one-half inch thick on a bakingpan ; pare and 
core and cut in eight pieces four apples and stick them 
into the dough in rows and sprinkle over them two 
tablespoons sugar, and bake quickly ; serve with sauce 
as follows: Two cups cold water, two cups sugar; 
when it boils add three teaspoons of cornstarch dis- 
solved in a little cold water ; take from fire soon as it 
thickens and add one tablespoon of butter and the rind 
and juice of one lemon, or one teaspoon lemon extract; 
serve hot. Mrs. H. E. Forbes. 



54 

ONE EGG CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, one tablespoon butter, 
one egg, two cups flour with two teaspoons baking 
powder. GENA SQUIRES. 

FRUIT CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one and one- 
half cups buttermilk, one and one-half teaspoons soda, 
two cups flour, one teaspoon of cloves, one teaspoon 
of cinnamon, one cup chopped raisins, nutmeg, small 
piece citron. Mrs. B. Ellis. 

FIG LOAF CAKE. 

One and one-half cups white sugar, two-thirds cup 
butter, two-thirds cup sweet milk, whites of six eggs,. 
two and one-half cups flour, two-thirds teaspoon soda, 
one and one-half teaspoons cream tartar, one pound 
figs cut in small pieces and dredged in the flour. 

Mrs. Ernest Sims. 

MOLASSES CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

One cup molasses, two cups flour, one-hall cup 
water, one-fourth cup butter, one teaspoon soda, one- 
half teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cinnamon. 

M. C. Atwood. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, three eggs, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one cup sou] - milk, one tea- 
spoon soda, three cups flour, one teaspoon cloves; 
soak one cup apple over night; chop and stew in one 
cup molasses; add apple to cake before all the flour is 
in ; one cup of raisins and currants if you like. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Seymour. 



55 

PATTY-PAN CAKES. 

One-half cup (large) butter, two-thirds cup milk, 
one cup (heaping) sugar, two eggs, two and one-halt 
cups flour with two teaspoons baking powder, one- 
half cup of raisins, one-half cup nuts. 

Mrs. V. P. Kipp. 

SPICED CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup brown sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup sour milk, two 
cups flour, one cup raisins, one teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves. 

Mrs. E. E. Stevens. 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

One cup sugar, one cup thick sour milk, one cup 
chopped raisins, one-half cup butter, two cups flour, 
one teaspoon soda; spice to taste. 

Mrs. E. Martin. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Yolk of one egg, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
molasses, one spoon melted butter, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, one teaspoon cloves, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, one and one-half cups flour ; bake in 
three layers; use white of egg for frosting. 

Mrs. H. Tilly. 

OCEAN CAKE. 

One cup of milk, two cups sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, whites of five eggs, two and one-half cups flour, 
two even teaspoons baking powder; this makes a very 
nice loaf or layer cake. Mrs. Geokge Robinson. 



56 

Man^a^Hopeless Battle 

Has Been Won by a Bright Thought. 

Many a Hasty Dinner. . 

Made a Victory by using Good Coffee. 

Poor Coffee will spoil a Good Dinner as 
quick as Rancid Butter will Good Bread. 

Our SPURR'S REVERE . . . 

. . . JAVA AND MOCHA 

Is pure, delicate, aromatic, delicious. It 
is ever a Good Cook's Strong Reliance. 

It's always fresh, because we can't keep it long enough 
for it to get old. With it you are always safe. Try it. 

Then, There's BUTTER! 
There's Bad, Indifferent, Good and Choice Butter. 

Any but the best is rank poison to a good liver. We 
keep CHOICE Butter. You can send in your orders, and 
if, when delivered, it is not "Choice", we will take it away 
without costing you a cent. 

All our GROCERIES are like our Coffee and Butter,— 
the best to be had. 

Cor. Main and Court Sts. W. J. DONALDSON. 



57 

POUND CAKE. 

One cup of egos, one cup of butter, one and one- 
hall cups of sugar, one and one-half cups of flour; stir 
butter and flour together; stir sugar and eggs to- 
gether, then stir these four together; add strips oi 
citron and grated lemon peel ; use any kind of a cup; 
bake in patty tins. Mrs. J. B. HITCHCOCK. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Two large spoons gelatine; put six large spoons ol 
boiling water on the gelatine; put on stove until dis- 
solved, then strain ; flavor; stir in this twenty-eight 
tablespoons of pulverized sugar; beat with a spoon 
half an hour; butter a tin same size as cake tin; pour 
in and let stand until hard ; use any nice white cake 
receipt, putting cream for middle layer; frost on 
either side of cream and on top of cake. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Seymour. 

DARK LAYER CAKE. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, two 
tablespoons melted butter, one-half cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, one and one-half cups flour, yolk of one 
egg, using white for frosting; flavor frosting with one 
teaspoon cinnamon. Mrs. Imogen Ralph. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

One-half cup of molasses, one-half cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of sour cream, one- half cup of milk, one and 
one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonful of ginger. Put 
all in the mixing dish in just the order given; beat 
thoroughly two minutes and bake in long tin in hot 
oven. Mrs. Myra Briggs. 



58 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Take three fresh eggs, one heaped cup of pulverized 
sugar, one heaped cup flour, one heaped teaspoon of 
baking powder, four tablespoons of cold water; beat 
the eggs till the yolks and whites are well mixed, then 
add the sugar and beat fifteen or twenty minutes till 
the mixture is thick and light; stir the baking powder 
into the flour, then add the flour and water, little by 
little, stirring lightly ; bake in quick oven, either in 
sponge tins or a shallow pan. 

Mrs. A. G.Gaines, 

{In The Success Cook Book). 

WHITE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, whites of two 
eggs, one cup of milk or water, two cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder; cream the butter- stir in 
sugar, then add beaten whites, milk or water and 
flour; little at a time. Mrs. D. M. Spencer. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Two eggs, three tablespoons of sugar, three table- 
spoons flour, two tablespoons cold water, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder; beat together a long time. 

Zona M. Nickerson. 

ERUIT CAKE WITHOUT SPICES. 

Seven eggs; the exact weight of eggs in butter, sug- 
ar and flour; one heaping teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, sifted with the flour; two pounds each of raisins 
and currants; one pound citron. Beat butter and 
sugar to a cream ; add eggs ; beat thoroughly ; then 
add flour; last the fruit ; mix all thoroughly"; steam 
ten hours, then set in a warm oven two hours. M. c. A. 



59 

SPANISH BUNS. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one 
tablespoon cinnamon, one-half cup milk, one cup flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder, salt ; rub the butter to a 
cream; add sugar; beat together; add beaten yolks; 
add milk and Hour with baking powder mixed ; cin- 
namon and salt; lastly add beaten whites; bake in 
shallow tin; frost; cut in squares. 

Mrs. Vanilla Remington. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one and one-halt cups flour, one cup 
but tei", one and one-half teaspoons baking powder, one- 
hal! teaspoon vanilla, one pound English walnuts, four 
eggs; chop or pound nuts very tine. 

Mrs. J. C. Keeler. 

POUND CAKE. 

One cup of eggs, one pup of butter, one and one- 
hall cups sugar, one and one-half cups flour. Stir 
butter and flour, then sugar and eggs together, then 
stir the four together; add strips of citron and grated 
lemon peel; bake in patty tins. 

Mrs. J. B. Hitchcock. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

The whites of eleven eggs beaten to a stiff troth, 
one jelly tumbler ol flour with one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar stirred in and silted six times, one and one-half 
tumblers of granulated sugar, a little pinch of salt, one 
tablespoon vanilla, before putting in the oven; stir 
whites and sugar together first, then flour, lastly 
vanilla ; bake forty minutes, in moderate oven in tin 
that has a tube, and has never been greased. M. C. 



6o 



CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

One cup coffee, one cup molasses, one cup sugar, 
one cup raisins, two-thirds cup butter, three and one- 
hall cups flour, one teaspoon soda, spice to taste; salt. 

Mrs. E. Martin. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Eight tablespoons of grated chocolate, eight table- 
spoons of sugar, four tablespoons of cream, vanilla. 
Mix well; cook in double boiler; when done stir until 
cool and flavor. Miss May Kip. 

SOUR CREAM LAYER CAKE. 

One egg, sour cream, one cup of sugar, one and 
one-hall cups of flour, pinch of salt, small teaspoon ful 
of soda, teaspoonful of vanilla. Break the eggs in a 
cup and fill the cup with cream; add the sugar; beat 
until light; mix salt and soda with flour; stir in light- 
ly and flavor. Mrs. X. Lewis. 

HELENS CAKE FILLING. 

One cup milk, one cup nut meats, one tablespoon 
flour, one egg, one-half cup sugar, salt. Heat milk, 
sugar and nuts; add egg and flour stirred together ; 
cook until thick. Helen Cleaveland. 

FILLING FOR CUSTARD CAKE. 

One cup milk, one-half cup sugar, three tablespoons 
corn starch, one egg. Heat milk; stir sugar, flour 
and egg together; thin with cold milk from the meas- 
ure given ; add to hot milk; cook well ; add to cake 
just before serving. Mrs. Leah Rushton. 



6i 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

One-half cup molasses, one-half cup sour cream, one 
egg, one cup flour, one (even) teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon ginger. Mrs. X. Lewis. 

BELL'S CAKE DRESSING. 

Boiled frosting with the white of one egg, two table- 
spoons thick sour cream, one teaspoon cloves, one cup 
chopped raisins. Mrs. Dr. Rutherford. 

FIG CAKE FILLING. 

One pound figs, one-half cup sugar, two-thirds cup 
of water. Boil figs after being chopped fine with sug- 
ar and water until thick. Mrs. D. S. RlCE. 



62 
OO TO THE 



Vienna Bakery & Restaurant 

COURT STREET, CANTON, N. Y. 



BREAD, PASTRY OF ALL KINDS, 

ICE CREAM AND ICES, ALL FLAVORS. 
ESPECIALLY FRUIT FLAVORS IN SEASON. 

Church Socials, Festivals, etc., supplied at unusually 
low prices. 

Parties wishing to furnish their own material, for an 
order of ten quarts or more, can have it frozen for five 
cents per quart, salt and ice included. 

Our capacity is one thousand quarts per day. 
Give us a trial. HOWELL & ROE. 



Wise People 



_GO TO_ 



Miss Pai 



f WHERE THEY CAN GET THE BEST l&) 
GOODS FOR THE LEAST MONEY, ftr 

The Best Fitting Corsets, 

The Most Stylish Shirt Waists, 

PERFECTION WRAPPERS, . . 
^HOSIE^YTulsiDEr^W^AR7&^ ° 

Butterick's, the only reliable Patterns, kept in stock. 



COOKIES, SMALL CAKES, AND 
DOUGHNUTS. 

GINGER COOKIES WITHOUT SHORTNING. 

One eg-g, one cup New Orleans molasses, one cup 
sugar, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one tablespoon gin- 
ger, one tablespoonful soda, two tablespoonfuls vine- 
gar, a little salt; put the ginger and soda in the vine- 
gar; stir and add all together ; mix soft; bake quickly. 

Mrs. P. L. Cooke. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Two cups New Orleans molasses, one cup sugar, 
one cup butter or drippings, one egg, three teaspoon- 
fuls soda, one teaspoonful pulverized alum, two-thirds 
cup hot water, one teaspoonful ginger, one teaspoon- 
ful salt ; mix all except water ; dissolve the alum in 
half the water; balance of water in the soda ; mix soft; 
bake in quick oven. Mrs. Chas. MATTESON. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One pint of water, one-halt pint lard, three-fourths 
pint flour, one-fourth ounce ammonia, eleven eggs; 
heat water and lard on a quick fire until it boils, then 
put in flour and stir a little, while boiling; then put in 
another dish and stir until cold, then add eggs and 
ammonia; drop on floured pans, and bake in a quick 
oven; fill with custard or whipped cream; flavored. 

Mabel Bullis. 



6 4 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Three cups of oatmeal flake, two cups of flour, one 
cup of sugar, one level teaspoon soda, and mix dry; 
one-half cup butter; fill the cup with hot water and 
pour over and mix together; roll thin and cut in strips 
and then in diamonds and bake in a quick oven. 

Miss Ellen Page. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups brown sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one teaspoon soda dissolved in five 
tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, one cup chopped raisins, 
one-half teaspoonful each cloves, cinnamon and nut- 
meg ; mix soft and bake. Mrs. P. L. Cooke. 

NUT WAFERS. 

One-fourth cupful of butter, creamed with one cup- 
ful of sugar, add one egg well beaten, one cupful of 
flour, one cupful of nut meats, chopped; use walnuts 
or cream nuts; drop on buttered tins and bake quick- 
v- Miss Josie Page. 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one- 
half cup of butter, one egg, one-half teaspoon of soda, 
nutmeg; mould with white flour. Lillie L Gay. 

JUMBLES. 

One-half cup butter, two eggs, one and one-half 
cups flour, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in table- 
spoonful milk ; stir butter and sugar to a cream ; add ■ 
the well beaten eggs, and a little nutmeg; cut in rings. 

Mrs. H. Johnson. 



6 5 . 

CURRANT COOKIES. 

Two eggs, one-hall teaspoon soda, one and one-half 
cups sugar, two teaspoons baking- powder, one cup 
b.utter, nutmeg" to taste, one cup sour milk and cream 
mixed, three-fourths cup currants: use as little flour 
as necessary; after rolling, powder the top with 
granulated sugar. MRS. ERNEST Sl.MS. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

One teacupful sour cream, one teacupful sugar, one 
egg, one teaspoonful soda, pinch of salt; flavor with 
nutmeg ; mix soft ; roll one-half inch thick. 

Mrs. J. S. Gale. 

CHEESE CRACKERS. 

Spread crackers with butter, cover thickly with 
grated cheese, and bake a few minutes. 

Lydia Fleetham. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Melt one-half cup butter in one cup of boiling water, 
while boiling stir in one cup of dry flour; take off and 
cool; when cool stir in, one at a time, three eggs; 
when smooth drop on tins quickly and bake in a 
moderate oven twenty-five minutes; when cold open 
the side of each puff and fill in with cream made as 
follows: One pint of milk, one-half cup ol flour, one 
cup of sugar and two eggs ; beat sugar, eggs and flour 
together, and stir in the milk, which should be boiling- 
hot. Another filling — Three-fourths of a cup ol sugar, 
one egg, one cup ol milk, one tablespoon of cornstarch; 
flavor and boil until done ; when cool fill puffs. 

Mrs. Dr. Conkey. 



Manufacturer of 
and Dealer in. . . 



66 

I\ M. PEGGS, 

Marble and Granite 

Monuments! 



Best of Work and Stock Guaranteed 

Correspondence solicited with all requiring 
the highest grade of work at lowest prices. 

Hodskin Street, Near the Farmers' Sheds, 

CANTON, TNT. Y. 

KIDS REPAIRED! 

And also All Kinds of Boots and Shoes! 

A LARGE LINE OF 

MEN'S, WOHEN'S & CHILDREN'S SHOES 

Of Finest Quality, Constantly on Hand. 
Main Street, Canton. B. H. BUSH. 

Doll t Cry TOT mrGrab a Stool and 

Spilled Milk^—. start ' orAnotherCow 

When you want Bargains don't go elsewhere to be cheated, come 
right into SHERWIN'S DOWN CELLAR GROCERY and get the 
Underground Prices. Remember, I am a whole head and a long, chunk 
of the neck beyond all competitors, both in size of stock and low prices, 
and am always glad to see you, — especially if you have the cash. 
Canton, P<. Y, W". IS. S H 13 JF« XN.^ J IX . 



6 7 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Two cups molasses, two cups sugar, two cups but- 
ter or drippings, two eggs, two tablespoons vinegar, 
two teaspoonfuls soda, one teaspoonful ginger, one 
teaspoonful cloves ; mix hard ; roll thin; bakequicklv. 

Mrs. Dona Sheetz. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, three-fourths cup 
melted lard, three-fourths cup warm water, two tea- 
spoonfuls soda, one teaspoonful ginger; mix stiff with 
flour, and roll very thin; bake quickly. 

Mrs. George Gav. 

LEMON COOKIES. 

One pint melted lard, one pint sweet milk, two and 
one-half cups white sugar, one ounce baker's ammonia, 
five cents worth oil of lemon or grated rind of two 
lemons, whites of two eggs beaten stiff; salt; flour to 
make stiff enough to handle easily ; roll ammonia fine 
and soak in the milk over night. 

MATTIE A. SOUTHWORTII. 

HELEN'S GINGER COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups 
molasses, one cup (large) shortening, one-half cup cold 
water, two-thirds lard, one-third butter; stir to a 
cream ; one large spoon of vinegar in cold water, three 
teaspoons soda in one-half cup boiling water, three 
teaspoons ginger in flour; after some of the flour is in 
add one egg, using flour enough to roll soft; bake in 
hot oven ; bake one to see if necessary flour is used. 

Miss Helen Cleaveland. 



68 

HERMIT COOKIES. 
Two eggs, one cup chopped raisins, one and one- 
halt" cups sugar, one teaspoon cloves, one-half cup but- 
ter, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon soda, one 
teaspoon allspice, two tablespoons sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon nutmeg; cream butter; add sugar, then eggs 
beaten; milk with soda ; spices and fruit ; mix stiff 
and roll thin. Mrs. Henry Rushton. 

MAGGIE'S WHITE COOKIES. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
lard, three eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, with 
enough flour to roll thin; season as you like. s. c. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 
One cup sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, two tablespoons water, one 
cup cocoanut; flour to thicken, 

Mrs. J. J. Matteson. 

SPONGE DROPS. 

Beat to a froth three eggs, and one teacup of sugar; 
stir into this one heaping coffeecup of flour, in which 
one teaspoonful of baking powder has been mixed; 
flavor with vanilla; drop in teaspoonfuls, about two 
inches apart, and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. D. C. Pease. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
One quart of flour, mix a scant tablespoon of short- 
ening, two eggs, cinnamon or nutmeg, one teaspoonful 
of soda in sour milk enough to make a soft dough. 

Mrs. Edwin Thacher. 



6 9 

FRITTERS. 

One egg, one and one-half cups sweet milk, one 
tablespoon melted butter, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, salt; stir thick with flour; add bit of bread or 
apple, covering with batter; fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. Chas. Matteson. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, six tablespoonfuls lard, 
two cups sweet milk, one teaspoonfnl soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar, flour enough to make a soft 
dough, little salt; dissolve soda in milk; put cream 
tartar in flour and stir well ; beat sugar and egg to- 
p-ether. Mrs. S. L. Barns. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, one cup scalded milk, 
one cup water, two-thirds cup yeast, one scant cup 
melted lard ; prepare pan as for rolls using pastry- 
flour ; beat eggs and sugar well together; add milk 
and water as warm as can be without scalding the 
sponge, then yeast and a good pinch of salt, and last 
melted lard; stir all well together; prepare sponge at 
noon and if kept warm will be ready to mix at night; 
at that time one-third teaspoonfnl of soda and what- 
ever spice desired ; make as stiff as for rolls and let 
them rise until morning; if very light roll out about 
an inch thick and cut with a very small cutter without 
a hole in the centre; sprinkle bread board with flour 
and place cakes upon it fully an inch apart, turning 
often; use a knife when turning so not to break the 
crust that will form as they rise; when very light fry 
in lard that has not been used for other cakes; it is 
quite necessary they should be kept warm. 

Mrs. C. C. Caldwell. 



7° 
Rich., . . FRESH AND EARLY 



Juicy . 



VEGETABLES 



Honest Weight, Honest Prices, 
Prompt Delivery. 

M / '"' Economy in buying Meats saves 

GcE^C^ . good hard dollars 

EDWIN HOSLEY. 



I . . R. A. MCGEE. . 

g Boots, Shoes, Rubbers, 

A Trunks, Baqs, Valises, gj 

£ You will always find a large assortment of high ff* 

|/ grade goods which will be sold at ^ 

f The Very Lowest Living Profits! 1 

// REPAIRING NEATDY DONE. ((( 



Don't Swear at SHE ' S ALL RIGHT - The f au it is 

VOl IP f OOk" W ' th thS mate " aI she uses ' Groceries 

YUUK V^UUIV . . g et stale, Coffee loses its aroma, But- 
ter gets off flavor, Fruit spoils. IT'S THE OLD STORY. We can 
help her, because everything is FRESH and the FINEST. We sell 
O. V. Tracey's celebrated BOQUET COFFEE, choice and fresh 
Groceries, fresh gilt-edged Butter. Full line of Fruits in season. 
Hodskin Street, Canton. C. E. BROEFFLE. 



7i 
DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, two tablespoons melted 
butter, one cup sweet milk with one teaspoonful soda 
dissolved, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar in the flour, 
a little nutmeg or cinnamon; stir with a spoon and 
handle as little as possible when on the board. 

Mrs. Ada Dies. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

A piece of butter size of an egg, three-fourths cup 
sugar, one egg, one pint of water, three-fourths cup 
of yeast; Hour to make into a soft loaf; let it rise 
over night, then in the morning roll out and cut out, 
and let stand an hour, and fry in hot lard. 

Mattie S. 
CHEESE FAGOTS. 

Mix lour ounces flour, two ounces butter, four ounces 
grated cheese, small pinch cayenne pepper, one-half 
teaspoonful salt and one egg; roll out very thin; cut 
into little strips an inch and a half long; put about a 
dozen in a bundle and twist one around them ; finish 
as if tied in a knot; bake in a hot oven to a golden 
brown; dish them in a heap on a napkin and serve 
with salad. Mrs. Edward Haley. 

GATEAUX DE MILAN. 

One heaping breakfast cup of butter, or one-half 
pound ; one heaping breakfast cup of sugar, or one- 
half pound; one and one-halt cups of flour, or one-half 
pound; two eggs; rind of one lemon. Beat sugar, 
butter, eggs and grated lemon to a cream ; add enough 
flour to make a soft dough, and use the remainder to 
roll it out; cut and bake like other cookies. Brushing 
them on the top with a mixture of egg and a little milk 
before baking makes them nicer. Mrs. H. Liotard. 



/- 



DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, two cups thick sour 
cream, two cups sour milk, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
soda, salt and nutmeg to taste; Roll one-half inch 
,llick - Mrs. Charles Wallace. 

GOOD SANDWICHES. 

Boil and chop fine, lean fresh meat; chop mixed 
nuts; add celery salt; mix with cream salad dressing, 
and spread on thin slices of bread, buttered. 

Mrs. H. L. Matteson. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

To one ego- thoroughly beaten, put one cup sweet 
milk, a little salt, slice bread and dip into the mixture, 
allowing each slice to absorb some of the milk, then 
brown on a hot buttered griddle; spread with butter; 
serve hot - Mrs. Hattie Forbes. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Stir the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, three table- 
spoons of prepared mustard, half pound butter to a 
cream; spread bread with this; remove all fat from 
ham; chop line ; sprinkle over bread to taste. 

Mary Stevens. 
SALTED ALMONDS OR PEANUTS. 
Blanch by pouring boiling water over them, rubbing 
the skin off with a rough cloth ; when they are quite 
dry measure them and over each cupful of nuts pour 
a tablespoonful of olive oil; let them stand foranhour 
then sprinkle a tablespoon of salt over each cupful, 
mixing it thoroughly; spread them out on a flat tin 
Pan and put in a not too hot oven until they have be- 
come a delicate brown. Mrs. LlOTARD. 



73 
FRUIT SANDWICHES. 

Bread cut very thin and lightly buttered ; spread 
with dates or candied cherries chopped fine and moist- 
ened with orange juice ; roll and tie with baby ribbon; 

lemonade is served with this. 

Mrs. H. L. Matteson. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 
One-half cup puff paste, roll thin, sprinkle with 
grated cheese, repeat three or four times, then cut in 
long strips one-fourth inch wide and sprinkle with 
grated cheese ; put in a pan and bake till a light brown; 
serve witli soup or salad. Mrs. Fobare. 

SOUFFLE AU CHOCOLAT. 

Take one and one-half cups of sweet milk, heat with 
about two squares Baker's chocolate, grated; when 
quite hot add one large tablespoon of cornstarch dis- 
solved in a little cold milk and put on stove till it 
thickens; sweeten to taste and add a little vanilla. 
Let this cool. About twenty minutes before time to 
serve beat the yolks of four eggs with the chocolate 
mixture and add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake immediately in a hot oven. M. C. Liotard. 

CklEME FRITE (Fried Cream). 
Mix eighteen heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, one 
and one-half pints of milk, four eggs, a little pinch of 
salt and a tablespoonful of liquor. Grease a dripping 
pan, pour the mixture in about an inch thick; put it in 
a very slow oven to thicken without browning or rising; 
when it is cold cut it in lozenges and fry in very hot 
lard; when of a bright yellow and very light take (nit 
with a skimmer; sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
serve hot. Mrs. H. Liotard. 



74 



i 
I 



..^K 



F. F. WILLIAMS, M. D. 



General Practitioner and Surgeon, } 



CANTON, N. Y. 
Office Hours, l to 3 and 7 to 8 p. m. 



! 

! 






gr^^ Heated throughout by Steam. 

i Nearest Hotel to Post Office 
and Opera House. 

Free 'Bus to All Trains. 

The best accommodations for 
Commercial Travelers. 

Large Sample Rooms. 
^> 

J. M. HAVEN, 

Proprietor. 




Harness, Whips, Robes, Blankets, &c. 

FINE REPAIRING A SPECIALTY. 
Water Street, Canton, N. "Y". 



PICKLES, MARMALADE, ETC. 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes, nine good sized onions; 
slice; throw on a teacup of salt ; cover with water 
and let stand over night; drain it off in morning; boil 
a few minutes in weak vinegar; drain off again and 
add two quarts of vinegar, two pounds of brown sugar, 
one-fourth pound white mustard seed, two tablespoons 
ground allspice, cloves, cinnamon and ginger, one- 
fourth teaspoon of red pepper; boil fifteen minutes or 

ore ; put in stone jar. MRS. G. S. Gale. 



in 



TOMATO BUTTER. 

Eleven pounds ripe tomatoes, after they are peeled 
cover with vinegar and let them stand over night ; in 
morning make syrup of one quart of vinegar, three 
pounds of sugar, one tablespoon of cloves, mace, cin- 
namon, salt, small one-half teaspoon of red pepper; 
when hot put in tomatoes and boil slowly four hours 
or until thick. Mrs. G. S. Gale. 

FRENCH PICKLES. 

Slice two dozen medium sized cucumbers about one 
inch thich ; put in weak brine twenty-four hours, then 
prepare one quart strong vinegar, one-half cup mus- 
tard seed, one cup of celery seed, one cup of salad oil; 
mix together and pour over them. MRS. <;. R. 



/6 

INDIA PICKLES. 

Six quarts best vinegar, one pound salt, one-fourth 
pound root ginger, one ounce whole mace, two dozen 
small onions, one handful brown sugar; mix these well; 
bring to a boil; when cold place in a stone jar; one 
dessertspoon (two drachms) currie powder, one table- 
spoon pulverized cayenne pepper, two ounces white 
pepper, two ounces mustard, two ounces turmeric ; mix 
well together in a little vinegar; stir until no lumps 
remain, then add to what is in the jar without putting 
on the stove; stir every morning for three weeks, ad- 
ding small cucumbers, onions, cauliflower or anything 
that is good pickled. Mrs. Robert H. Sackrider. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One large cauliflower, one quart small onions, two 
quarts small cucumbers, two quarts large cucumbers 
cut up, one-half pint French mustard, six tablespoons 
dry mustard, four tablespoons of flour, one-half table- 
spoon red pepper, two tablespoons salt, one cup sugar, 
two and one-half pints of best vinegar; cook cauli- 
flower in weak vinegar until tender; cook onions in 
weak brine until clear, but not soft; heat vinegar and 
thicken with flour and mustard; add other ingredients; 
cook one-half hour; stir so not to burn; bottle. 

Mrs. Lillian Farmer. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Twenty-nine tomatoes, cut, boil until soft, put thro' 
a flour sieve; add one and one-half tablespoons salt ; 
same of black pepper; four pods of red pepper; two 
tablespoons ground mustard. Cook three hours in 
two cups vinegar until one quart of catsup. s. c. 



77 
CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Three gallons rain water, two gallons vinegar, three 
pints salt, one-half pound alum ; put in cucumbers as 
picked ; cover with cloth and keep under brine. 

Mrs. X. Lewis. 

PEACH PICKLES. 

Rub the peaches with a cloth, to one peck of peaches 
take seven pounds sugar, two quarts vinegar; put four 
cloves in each peach; let the vinegar boil; put in 
sugar; boil; put in a few peaches at a time; let them 
get soft ; when all done skim the syrup and pour over 
peaches; to be served in side dish with some of the 
syrup. Mrs. Geo. Robinson. 

BUCKEYE PICKLES. 

Peal and chop three dozen large green cucumbers, 
don't have them turned yellow at all, taking out all 
large seeds; add two small cups of salt; stir and let 
stand over night; in morning press dry in jelly bag; 
add one-half cup white mustard seed and vinegar 
enough to make like any chopped pickles; mix 
thoroughly, and it is ready tor use. 

Miss Eva Bates. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

Seven pounds ripe tomatoes peeled and strained, 
three pounds brown sugar, one pint cider vinegar, 
three lemons cut in small pieces — take out all seeds, 
two tablespoons cinnamon, one tablespoon ginger, salt 
to taste. Add sugar and spices about one-half hour 
before it is done; boil three hours and can. 

Mrs. D. V. Kir. 



7* 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

To one quart vinegar add a scant one-half pint salt; 
fill glass jar with small cucumbers; turn vinegar and 
salt over them ; seal; can be put into sweetened and 
spiced vinegar later if preferred. Mrs. Dr. Hawlev. 

TOMATO SOY. 

Two gallons green tomatoes, twelve good sized on- 
ions, two quarts vinegar, one quart brown sugar, two 
tablespoons mustard, one tablespoon cloves, one table- 
spoon allspice, one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon 
black pepper. Fannie M. Hodskin. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Thirty ripe tomatoes, two green peppers, four large 
onions, eight cups vinegar, five tablespoons sugar, 
three tablespoons salt. Cut tomatoes; chop peppers 
and onions; cook all together two and one-half hours ; 
can - Mrs. L. Havens. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five pounds currants, three pounds brown sugar, 
two tablespoons cloves, two tablespoons cinnamon, 
two cups vinegar. Boil all together until currants are 
soft ; then skim out pulp ; cook juice until rather thick ; 
add pulp; turn into glasses and seal. s. c. 

CURRANT JAM. 

Five pounds currants, four pounds brown sugar, 
one pint vinegar, two tablespoons cinnamon, two table- 
spoons cloves. Dissolve sugar with vinegar and add 
currants and spices; boil one hour steadilv. 

Mrs. Chas. Wallace. 



79 
ORANGE MARMALADE. 

One dozen oranges, one-half dozen lemons, twelve 
pounds sugar, twelve pints of water. Peel the oranges 
and lemons, carefully removing all the white skin that 
adheres to the fruit, take out the seeds, and cut the 
fruit in small pieces ; cut the peel in narrow strips, 
cover the fruit with a part of the water, cover the 
peel with what remains, let stand thirty-six hours; 
then boil fruit and peel separately, as the peel needs 
more cooking (three hours) ; add sugar to fruit and peel 
put together; cook twenty minutes ; can and it is ready 
for use; better when several months old. 

Bell Maxwell. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Mash the grapes in a kettle, put them over the fire 
and cook until thoroughly done ; drain through a sieve, 
do not press them ; to each pint of juice allow one 
pound of sugar. Boil rapidly for five minutes ; add 
the sugar and boil rapidly three minutes more. S. W. 



So 

Canton Marble and Granite Works 

L. W. ELDREDGE, Manager. 

American and Scotch Qkanite a Specialty. 

Work Erected in any part of New York State. 
Office and Works, - No. 8 Court Street, - Canton, N. Y. 



The Laurel 
Receipt for 



BREAD! 

Use LAUREL Flour! 



o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
() 
o 
o 
o 
o 



o It is THE BEST BREAD FLOUR SOLD, 
o Over Thirteen Car Loads sold in Canton last 

o year. Yon see QUALITY tells. It is sold by 

o A. M. ALDRICH only. We also keep the 

BEST PASTRY FLOUR that can be made 
from wheat. You see, to help make a success 
of this Receipt Book the BEST OF EVERY- 
THING should be used, and you will always 
find it at ALDRICH'S. Our motto is good 
goods and square dealing, at a fair living profit. 

A. M. Aldrich, Grocer, op. Town Hall 

Fred Hosfey, Dentist, 

Main Street, Oemtoira, INf. Y. 

ALL KINDS OF DENTISTRY 
IN A SKILLFUL HANNER. . . 

Fillings of all Kinds, Crowns, Crown and Brid»e Work, 

Artificial Teeth, etc. Nitrous Oxide Gas and 

Local Anaesthetics Administered. 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 



BREAD MADE IN FIVE HOURS. 

Id the morning dissolve a compressed yeast cake in 
a cup of cold water, then take half a pint of milk and 
hall a pint of water and tablespoon salt; mix stiff until 
it will not stick to your fingers, and put in a greased 
pan to rise; grease the top slightly so it will not crust 
over; put in a warm place to rise (about 75% let rise 
three hours; then knead about fifteen minutes and put 
in tins and let it rise about one hour; then bake, the 
oven must be hot, and increase the heat for fifteen 
minutes, then cool it for the remainder of the hour. 
'This is a small recipe. When you increase, double 
everything. Too little yeast compels the dough to 
turn yeast maker. This is much better than setting 
bread at night. SUE M. H Eaton. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One quart warm water, or part milk, sweeten well 
with molasses, small piece of butter or lard, salt, half 
cake compressed yeast; stir in graham flour, making 
a stiff batter; pour into tins, and let rise; do not let 
it get too light; bake. Mrs. J. A. Clark. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups meal, one cup flour, two cups of sweet 
milk, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon soda ; steam two hours and set in oven to dry. 

E. A. Sherman. 



cS2 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, sift through it two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, and rub in a piece of butter or lard the 
size of an egg, a little salt ; add sufficient sweet milk 
or cold water to make a soft dough ; mix with a spoon ; 
knead as little as possible ; cut into biscuit and bake 
immediately in a hot oven. Those who have never 
used baking powder in their pie crust will find it nicer 
and lighter to use one-half teaspoon for each pie. 

Mrs. J. A. Clark. 

BREAD. 

Scald a pint of milk and stir in flour to make a thick 
batter; when cool add yeast; beat up well, cover, 
throwing something thick over it in winter; set back 
on the table, never on or near the fire, to rise ; when 
light take one quart of milk and water, equal parts, 
quite warm, add spoonful sugar (a small piece of but- 
ter if no milk is used), a little salt; into this pour your 
sponge and stir in flour until it is quite stiff; then 
knead with the fists, adding flour; when light put in 
tins using as little flour as possible ; when baked grease 
the top of the loaves with butter, with brush or feather. 

Mrs. J. A. Clark. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

One and one-half cups oatflake. one-half teaspoon 
soda, two cups boiling water, salt, one-half cup molas- 
ses, flour, yeast; pour boiling water over oatflake; let 
stand until lukewarm, then add molasses, soda, salt 
and yeast; stir thoroughly; add flour until very stiff; 
let rise; cut down well; let rise again, then put in tin; 
when light, bake. Mrs. Clements. 



INDIAN BREAD. 

One quart Indian meal scalded with boiling water, 
one and one-hall pints flour stirred in when cold, one 
cup yeast, one cup molasses, salt; stir thorougly with 
a spoon; put in pan and let rise; bake two hours. 

Mrs. H. Johnson. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups sour milk, one-half cup molasses, two 
small teaspoons soda, one cup cornmeal, two cups 
graham flour, a little salt; have water cold when you 
put it over to steam; let steam two hours, then bake 
half an hour. Mrs. Alvin Aldrich. 

SPOON BREAD. 

One pint of Indian meal (scant measure), three pints 
sweet milk; scald and pour over the meal; let this 
mixture stand three or four hours or over night; then 
add two beaten eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, 
butter size of an egg and a little sugar if you like; 
bake like a custard in a deep dish ; serve hot in the 
dish it is baked in ; good for breakfast or tea. 

B. B. Hinckley. 

SWEDISH BREAD. 

When yeast bread has risen and is ready for the 
pans, take about one pint of the dough; roll very thin; 
spread the sheet of bread with butter, then sprinkle 
with one-half cup of sugar in which one spoonful of 
cinnamon has been mixed; roll very tight and cut in 
slices ; place the slices in well greased tins ; let rise 
one and one-fourth hours; bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. W. B. Gunnison. 



8 4 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Two cups sour milk, one-half cup wheat flour, two 
teaspoons soda, one egg, one cup molasses, salt, three 
cups graham flour; bake one and one-half or two 
hours - Mrs. Dr. Hawley. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One quart each, cornmeal, graham, and buttermilk, 
one cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, and salt; steam 
two and one-half to three hours, and then set in a hot 
oven a few minutes to brown over. 

Mary C. Ladd. 

QUAKER BISCUIT. 

Scald one cupful Quaker rolled oats with one pint 
boiling water and let stand one hour; add one-half 
tablespoonful shortening, a scant one-hall cupful mo- 
lasses, one-half tablespoonful salt, one-half yeast cake 
dissolved in one-third cupful hike warm water and one 
quart flour; let rise ; shape; rise again and bake in a 
hot oven twenty minutes. This will make two loaves. 

B. B. H. 

SHORTCAKE. 

One pint flour, one cup sour cream, one small tea- 
spoon soda, three eggs. Mrs. J. C. Keeler. 



ROLLS, GRIDDLE CAKES, ETC. 



FRENCH ROLLS. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one quart of milk, one cup 
of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half yeast 
cake. Scald the milk, add butter and sugar and when 
cool add yeast cake and stir to a stiff batter and set 
over night ; in the morning add egg well beaten and 
mold down not too stiff; let rise and mold again ; 
when ready to bake, roll out about an inch thick, 
spread with butter, roll up and cut in slices an inch 
thick; let these rise and bake. Mrs. X. Lewis. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

Two eggs, two cups flour, two tablespoons sugar, 
two large tablespoons cornmeal, one tablespoon butter, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, one cup milk, one tea- 
spoon soda, or use baking powder if preferred, and a 
pinch of salt. Mrs. John W. Simmons. 

LEMON CRACKERS. 

One pint melted lard, one pint sweet milk, two and 
one-half cups white sugar, one ounce baker's ammonia, 
five cents worth of oil of lemon or the grated rind of 
two lemons, whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
and a pinch of salt; the ammonia should be rolled fine 
and put in the milk over night; flour enough to handle 
easily; should not be mixed too hard. 

Mrs. Abbie Martin. 



86 

SQUASH MUFFINS. 

One pint of squash, two tablespoons sugar, two 
tablespoons milk, one teaspoon soda, one pint flour, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, butter size of egg, salt; 
if squash very dry use little more milk, more flour if 
necessary to make stiff batter. Helen Clements. 

POTPIE CRUST. 

Four cups flour, butter size of an egg;, three tea- 
spoons cream tartar, one egg, one and one-half tea- 
spoons of soda, salt; mix cream tartar and soda with 
flour; egg with sour milk, using enough milk to 
moisten ; enough more soda to sweeten milk besides 
what is in the flour; roll with your hands into balls, 
having as soft as you can manage ; boil twenty minutes. 
This crust never fails to be light and good. 

Mrs. H. Tilly. 

BOILED POTATO YEAST. 

Boil three large potatoes until broken in small pieces; 
one-half cup of loose hops boiled in one quart of water; 
mash the potatoes; add the hop water, and enough 
more hot water to make two quarts, three-fourths cup 
of flour, three-fourths cup sugar; boil five minutes, 
stirring well; let it cool; add three-fourths cup yeast; 
when well raised, add one-fourth cup of salt. Keep in 
a jar, in a cool place. Mrs. J. H. Clark. 

RAISED GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Stir into one pint of warm water one-half teaspoon 
ot salt, graham flour to make a medium batter, one- 
fourth cake ot yeast foam. An egg beaten in the 
morning improves them. Miss Sarah Hoslev. 



87 
PLAIN CRUMPETS. 

Mix while dry one quart sifted flour with two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls baking powder and a little salt ; add 
two tablespoons melted butter and sweet milk enough 
to make a thin dough ; bake quickly in well greased 
muffin pans. Good for breakfast. 

Mrs. Fred Hosley. 

DUMPLINGS FOR POTPIE. 

One cup flour, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, a little salt; stir and drop from spoon; 
coyer and cook steadily twenty minutes. 

Sara T. Robertson. 



<S8 



ThprpQ n ^VpWnn In Almost Every 
nicies a oncmuu Family Cupboard 

Ask the housewife. She can tell you. It's the Skeleton of once lovely 
Dinner and Tea Sets. Different pieces have been broken, until now 
nothing but a mere outline remains of their former beauty. Did you 
know that almost any piece can be replaced? It can, and at little cost. 
Of course, sometimes it can't be done, but then you can purchase really 
fine sets from $5.83 up for Dinner, and $3. 50 up for Tea Sets. 

Then, there's the question of poor GROCERIES. It's the good cook's 
Nightmare. 

It Can be Driven Away 

By buying your Provisions, Fruits, Extracts, etc , of reliable firms. 
Ours are right. Any one who has used them will say so. 



Main St., Canton. 



W. E. DUNN & SON. 



.A. Good F^anrailv F^ec^ioe: 

Get the Family or Farm Horse 




WI 



SHOD RIGHT! 

Poor shoeing ruins good horses. 
We shoe for the Racing Stables 
That's good enough recommenda- 
tion for us. 

CORNELL & CORNELL, 

Blacksmiths, Water Street. 



IAMS BROS. 



American House Livery and Boarding Stables! 

OUR RIGS ARE ALWAYS THE BEST 
AND OUR PRICES ARE REASONABLE 

Come and see us and we will please you if you are in 
need of anything in our line. 



EGGS. 



DROPPED OR POACHED EGGS ON TOAST. 

Toast a slice of bread for each egg, and trim neatly, 
or cut with a round cutter before toasting; have a very 
clean shallow pan nearly full of salted and boiling water; 
break each egg carefully into a cup and slip it gently 
into the water; dip the water over them with a spoon, 
and when a film has formed on the yolk and the white 
is firm, take each up with a skimmer; drain; trim the 
edges and place on the toast; put a bit of butter and 
a little salt and pepper on each egg, or poach the eggs 
in muffin-rings to give them a better shape. 

Cammie P. Gaines. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil one dozen eggs twenty minutes, then immerse 
them in cold water two minutes to prevent their turn- 
ing black; take off the shells and cut them through the 
middle lengthwise; remove the yolks very carefully 
so as not to break the whites; put the yolks in an 
earthen dish and mash very thoroughly with a silver 
spoon, taking out any hard parts there may be; add 
two tablespoonfuls butter, two of sweet cream, one of 
mustard mixed with a little vinegar, pepper and salt 
to taste; mix all the ingredients well, and if it seems 
too dry add a little more cream ; fill the whites with 
the mixture, putting the two halves together with 
wooden toothpicks. Mrs. H. D. Ellsworth. 



9 o 

BAKED EGGS. 

Break six or seven eggs onto a buttered plate or 
platter, sprinkle with pepper and salt and put a bit of 
butter upon each ; set in the oven to bake until the 
whites are well set; serve on the dish in which they 
are baked. If you are fond of cheese you can also 
sprinkle some grated cheese and a little mustard over 
them, which will make them very nice for a change. 

Mrs. A. Z. Squires. 

ESCALOPED EGGS. 

Make a force meat of chopped ham, fine bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt and some melted butter ; moisten 
with milk to a soft paste, and half fill some patty tins 
with the mixture; break an egg carefully upon the 
top of each ; dust with pepper and salt and sift very 
fine cracker crumbs over all; set in oven and bake un- 
til the eggs are well set, about eight minutes. 

Mrs. A. Z. Squires. 

POND LILY TOAST. 

Toast a slice of bread a light brown, butter, and 
moisten with cream or milk; beat the white of one 
egg stiff, salt while beating; shape it round; slip on 
to the toast; make a hole in the center, placing the 
yolk therein ; salt and pour a little melted butter over 
yolk; place in the oven until cooked, but not browned- 
serve at once. 1rexe Lewis 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Make the same as plain omelet, and as soon as it be- 
gins to thicken sprinkle in three tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese. Mrs. R. M. Stocking 



9 1 

PLAIN OMELET. 

Four eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk, one tablespoonful of butter. Beat the 
eggs with an egg-beater and add the salt and milk; 
have the pan very hot; put in the spoonful of butter, 
and pour in the mixture; shake constantly on the hot- 
est part of the stove until the egg begins to thicken, 
then let it stand a few minutes to brown; run the 
knife between the sides of the omelet and the pan, fold 
and turn on a hot dish. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. R. M. Stocking. 



9 2 

mm 5. W. LA5ELL, asent, mm 



.DEALER IN. 



ploUr, "peed, lV]eal, ©nan, ^Ijortj 

MIDDLINGS, Sec 
Lowest Possible Prices. Miner Street, Canton. 

Choice Fresh Groceries 

The finest to be found in the city markets, and 
they are SOLD CHEAP. I sell for cash, dis- 
count my bills, make quick sales. Stock always 
fresh. You don't pay for any goods but your own. 

Perfect Butter, 2-lb. Packages 

Put up in Thatcher's Parafine Cans. Slice the 
Butter off, can and all, like cutting bread. Gives 
a perfect moulded piece for table use, and butter 
left in can is not mutilated. Costs no more than 
any good Butter. A complete line of Rods and 
Fishing Tackle, Combs, Brushes, etc. 

Alvin Wallace, op. Haven House, Canton 



IK YOTU W^ANT 



Your Horse and Buggy in a Cool Place 

on a Hot Day, or Under Cover 

on a Stormy Day, 

JUST DRIVE INTO THE 

Covered Sheds, on Water Street, Canton. 

MCELROY & BELL, - - Proprietors. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



BOILED TROUT OR MUSCALLONGE. 

(Four or five pounds cut from a large fish preferred 
to a small whole fish;) wash and wrap in clean cloth 
and place in boiling water in which a handful of salt 
has been dissolved; boil hard ten minutes; drain and 
replace in boiling water; cook gently until tender, 
then remove skin and bones, being careful to keep 
shape of fish intact. 

HOLLANDAISE Sauce FOR Same. — One-half cup but- 
ter, yolks two eggs, one-half cup boiling water, pinch 
cayenne pepper, one-half teaspoon salt; stir butter until 
creamy; add other ingredients ; cook until it thickens; 
when done pour over fish and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley or add thin slices of lemon. (Very nice sauce 
lor asparagus on toast ) Fannie Shaw Fisher. 

CHEESE RAMEOU1NS. 

Put two ounces of bread, without crust, and one- 
half pint milk to boil; stir until smooth, then add four 
tablespoons grated cheese and two tablespoons butter; 
stir one minute ; remove from fire and add yolks of 
two eggs, salt and pinch cayenne; beat whites of three 
eggs to the stiffest possible froth and stir lightly into 
the mixture; turn into buttered ramequin pansor pud- 
ding dish and bake in quick oven fifteen or twenty 
minutes; serve at once. A nice luncheon or supper 
dish. Fannie Shaw Fisher. 



94 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Haddock preferred; white fish, trout, fresh cod, in 
fact almost any fish can be used; clean, wash and cut 
in small pieces, removing as far as possible both skin 
and bones; blown some slices of salt fat pork in the 
bottom of porcelain lined kettle; put in a layer of 
sliced onions, then one of potatoes and fish ; repeat 
until you have quantity desired ; pour on one cup boil- 
ing water and cook gently until fish and potatoes are 
tender, about twenty minutes probably; add sufficient 
sweet milk to cover, and salt if necessary; let come to 
boiling point, but do not boil; lay a platter with split 
Boston biscuit; pour on the chowder; sprinkle with 
pepper; a bit of chopped parsley or a few slices of 
lemon; serve verv hot. Fannie Shaw Fisher. 

SLICED CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

To one dozen sour cucumber pickles, sliced, add 
two large onions, sliced; to one pint of vinegar add 
one-half cup sugar, one teaspoonful of turmeric, one 
teaspoonful mustard seed, one of celery seed, three 
teaspoonfuls of grated horseradish ; let this all come 
to a boil, then pour over the pickles and onions. 

Mrs. G. H. Gilmore. 

DANDELION WINE. 

One gallon dandelion blossoms, one gallon boiling 
water turned onto blossoms; this must stand two days, 
then strain water off, and add to it three pounds 
granulated sugar, one lemon, one orange, one cup 
yeast, one pound raisins, then put in jar for two or 
three weeks, then strain through flannel cloth and 
bottle. Charles Matteson. 



95 

A DAINTY SOUP. 

Boil gently until the meat falls from the bones, a 
leg or shank of veal; remove meat from stock, and set 
overnight; scrape every particle of fat from stock, 
which should be a firm jelly ; set on back of stove, ad- 
ding; one eo-£ and shell, (a dozen shells alone will 
clarify it), one pepper corn to one quart of stock and 
sufficient salt to taste; let simmer some hours until 
perfectly clear and amber colored; strain through 
cheese cloth; this may be served just as it is with 
crutons, saltines or finger rolls, or a delicious pottage 
may be made from the stock by adding one cup sweet 
cream with one tablespoon of flour; in this serve 
tapioca. Fannie Shaw Fisher. 

SALTED FINGER ROLLS. 

Take any nice biscuit dough; to a pound of dough 
knead in one beaten egg and one teaspoon butter; let 
rise; mold in finger lengths, not much larger than 
lead pencil; let rise; bake one-half hour in rather slow 
oven ; (much depends on having these just light enough 
and correct baking); when done, glaze with white of 
egir and sprinkle with salt ; set in oven five minutes. 
Nice with afternoon tea. Fannie Shaw Fisher. 

CREAM FROSTING. 

Take the white of one t^, and add to it an equal 
measure of cold water or the juice of one lemon; stir 
into this powdered or confectioner's sugar, until the 
right consistency to spread upon the cake; flavor with 
vanilla or almond. This will keep moist longer than 
boiled hosting and is less trouble. 

Mrs. H. L. Matteson. 



9 6 

RUSSIAN CREAM. 

Put into one-half pint of warm water, one-half box 
of gelatine and place where it will keep warm until 
needed ; into one quart of heated milk put one coffee- 
cup of sugar and the yolks of four eggs beaten thorough- 
ly ; cook in double boiler uni.il smooth and slightly 
thick like cream ; add a tablespoonful of butter, and 
while hot turn onto the beaten whites of four eggs, 
stirring constantly ; strain the gelatine and mix with 
the whole, stirring very thoroughly ; flavor to taste. 
Better made the day before serving. Keep in a cool 
place. Mrs. J. F. Post. 

COLD WATER ICE. 

Turn one quart of boiling water over one pint of 
sugar, and boil five minutes; cool; flavor with straw- 
berry juice; freeze slowly ; turning, then leaving a few 
minutes; turning again and so on until frozen. 

Mrs. A. B. VanDyke. 

PIEPLANT PIE. 

One pint chopped pieplant, one coffeecuplnl sugar, 
one egg, one teaspoonful flour; stir all together ; a lit- 
tle grated orange peel improves it; bake with (me 
crust; add meringue of beaten white of one egg and 
tablespoonful ol sugar if desired. 

Mrs. Charlotte Barlow. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour milk, 
one-half teaspoonful soda, a little nutmeg; mix soft; 
roll thin and bake in very quick oven. 

Mrs. Charlotte Barlow. 






97 
LOBSTER SALAD. 

To one can of lobster cut up one large head of let- 
tuce and place on a dish, over which lay the lobster. 
For dressing, take the yolks of three eggs, beat well, 
add four tablespoons of salad oil, dropping it in very 
slowly, beating all the time, then add a little salt, cay- 
enne pepper, one-half teaspoonful mixed mustard, two 
tablespoonfnls of vinegar ; pour over lobster just be- 
fore sending to table. Mrs. G. H. Gilmore. 

CELERY TOAST. 

Cut the tender white portions of celery into inch 
pieces; simmer until tender in a little water slightly 
salted ; season with butter and pepper to taste, and 
place on slices of toasted bread. Mrs. T. M. Wells. 

SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

One cupful of sour cream, one teaspoon of salt, a 
speck of cayenne, one tablespoon of lemon juice, three 
of vinegar, one teaspoonful of sugar. Mix all together 
thoroughly. This is best for vegetables, string beans, 
asparagus, beets, or celery. Mrs. J. G. Kimball. 

ESCALOPED CHEESE. 

Cut the crust from three slices of bread; butter 
them well and place in layers in a buttered baking dish; 
sprinkle over with grated cheese — one-quarter of a 
pound of good cheese to three slices of bread — salt and 
pepper to taste; mix four well beaten eggs with three 
cups of milk and pour over the bread and cheese ; bake 
in a hot oven as you would a bread pudding. This 
makes an ample dish for four people. Mrs. J. F. Post. 



9 8 

HAM TOAST. 

Take fragments of cold boiled or fried ham; chop 
these until very fine, removing any hard bits; add one 
or two eggs, and serve hot on lightly buttered toast. 

Mrs. T. M. Wells. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Use a new tin pan; cover the berries with vinegar 
and let stand overnight; squeeze out the juice ; put 
one pound of sugar to one pint of juice; boil one 
minute; bottle as soon as possible. 

Mrs. G. W. Seymour. 



CANDIES. 

The vagaries of granulated sugar are past counting, 
and one who deals with it much will find that it often 
rises superior to all rules and tests and refuses to sub- 
mit to new conditions. Failure, therefore, does not 
necessarily mean lack of experience or fault in the 
recipe. 

In general the coarse crystals are better because less 
likely to be adulterated. And a clear, cool day is most 
favorable because the fondant is very sensitive to the 
state of the atmosphere, moisture affecting unfavorably. 

Another element o.f success is to have everything 
ready at hand so that the tests can be applied prompt- 
ly and the sugar can be taken care of the very instant 
it responds to the test. The delay of a few seconds 
may prove fatal to success. 

To prepare fondant, to a pound of sugar add a coffee 
cup almost full of cold water. Put on the stove and 
stir till the sugar is dissolved ; carefully wipe the sides 
of the pan free from all crystals which may have ad- 
hered to it, with a cloth wet in cold water. Cover, 
and when it begins to boil add a small pinch of cream 
tartar; keep it covered and let it boil, not too vigor- 
ously, till it hairs off and makes a soft ball in ice water, 
then remove instantly from the fire. Have an earthen 
dish readv in a cool place; carry the boiling syrup and 
pour into it. Be careful that it is not shaken or dis- 
turbed in the least. Even the winds of heaven must 
not visit it roughly, for the danger is that it may crys- 



IOO 



talize and sometimes a slight jar will bring about this 
disastrous result. For the same reason it is poor econ- 
omy to drain the last drop of the liquid from the cook- 
ing dish, for these last drops falling into the syrup are 
often enough to start the crystalization and the liquid 
will quickly become solid. 

When the syrup is cool enough to hold a ringer in 
it, it is ready to stir. Use a wooden or silver spoon 
till it stiffens, then knead with the hand. The cooler 
the syrup is the longer it must be stirred but the 
creamier it will be. 

Hence, if it seems a little under-done, stir while 
quite hot; if the reverse, let it get about cold. After 
the fondant is prepared it is comparatively simple to 
make the bonbons. Almost any variety may be made 
which the materials will allow or individual fancy sug- 
gests. There are two ways of using the fondant; 
either cold, working the coloring and flavoring into it 
with a knife, or, what is much more desirable, meltina- 
it. 

To melt, put into a cup in a basin of hot water and 
stir to prevent its returning to syrup. Flavor and 
color to taste and drop into it the nuts, fruits, or 
prepared fillings; remove with a silver fork on waxed 
paper. Mrs. C. K. Gaines. 

COCOANUT BALLS. 

Melt half a cup of fondant and stir into it shredded 
cocoanut till stiff; form into balls about the size of a 
hickory nut and put on waxed paper in a cool place; 
melt more fondant; color and flavor to taste; dip the 
balls in the melted fondant, and roll in cocoanut. 

Mrs. C. K. Gaines. 






IO 



LANGTRV BONBONS. 

Cut fresh marshmallows mice in two; put some fon- 
dant in a small bowl, which set in a saucepan of boiling 
water; stir it over the fire gently and carefully to pre- 
vent the water splashing into it, as one drop may spoil 
the whole ; dip each piece of marshmallow, dropping 
it into the cream ; turn it quickly with a fork and lilt 
it out; strike the fork gently on the edge of the bowl 
to get rid of hanging drops, and as you lay it on the 
waxed paper, give a turn to the fork, so that the part 
that was under comes uppermost. A variety may be 
obtained by coloring part of the fondant pink and 
flavoring with rose; some chocolate; some orange, 
etc . Mrs. L. F. Hale. 

MAPLE SUGAR CANDY. 

Two cups of maple sugar, one cup of cream, salt 
and nuts; dissolve the sugar in a little water over the 
nre; add the cream and boil until it hairs when 
dropped from the spoon; add butternut or walnut 
meats broken into bits ; place kettle in a can of cold 
water and stir the mixture until it sugars; pour then 
into buttered pans to the depth of an inch ; when cool 
mark in squares and set away to harden. 

Alice Matteson. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Two cups sugar, one cup syrup. Let come to a 
boil; add one-fourth cup milk or cream, butter size of 
a butternut; warm two squares of chocolate; let all 
cook until it will harden in cold water; flavor with 
vanilla; pour in buttered tins ; mark in squares and 
coo l. Helen E. Cleaveland. 



102 



THE CANTON COOK BOOK! 

^ In this book you look for the best formulas ^. 
••^ '^■» 

f for palatable dishes. To get the best results ] 

^\ : fc. 

~y, just try Mead's Flavoring Extracts. Sold at s^. 

IVTE^Al}'^ idruo store 

Main Sti-eet, C ca trx t c^> n » I*< . Y. 

AMERICAN HOUSE 

CANTON, IV. Y. 

Longest Established of any Hotel in Canton 

HEADQUARTERS FOR BOARD OF TRADE. 

FIRST -CLA5.5 ^OAAERCIAL MOUSE 

Heated by steam. Lighted by Electricity. 
All stages call daily. Livery in connection. 

Rates, $2 per Day. E. A. GREEN, Manager. 



American House, I St. Lawrence Inn, I Getman House, 

CANTON. GOUVERNEUR. THERESA. 

' f All First-Class Hotels in Every Way. -^V 
CirrMAN BKOTHKRS, - I^r-op.r-ietor-s. 

Tw/Tfc a WJ i\ trfc " (i) Choice Staple and Fancy 

mmmm __ _ __«^__ _____ Groceries and (2) Low Prices 

WE CATER TO THESE WANTS. 

= Kggle^ton &c JVleii-^Tneill = 

PEOPLE'S DOWN=CELLAR GROCERY, 

Matthews Block, Main Street, Canton, N. Y. 



io3 

GRILLED ALMONDS. 

Blanch a cup of almonds and dry thoroughly ; boil 
one cup of sugar and a quarter of a cup of water till 
it hairs, then throw in the almonds; let them try in 
this syrup, stirring- them occasionally; they will turn 
a faint yellow brown before the sugar changes color; 
do not wait an instant, once this change begins, or 
they will lose flavor; remove them from the fire and 
stir them till the syrup has changed back to sugar and 
clings irregularly to the nuts. 

Ettie B. Hale. 

PEANUT CANDY. 
Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup water, one-halt 
teaspoonful of cream tartar dissolved in a little cold 
water. Cook until when dropped in cold water it be- 
comes brittle ; then add a piece of butter size ot an 
English walnut; cook a few minutes longer', then pour 
over the shelled nuts; spread on a tin well buttered 
and set away to cool. Nettie Jeffers. 

SUGARED DATES. 

Remove the stones from a pound of dates; take the 
meats from a half pound of English walnuts and enclose 
a quarter of a meat in each date ; press closely together 
and roll well, in pulverized sugar. Bessie Dies. 

ORANGE GLACE. 

Peel and divide oranges in sections, being careful 
not to break the skins; lay on a platter and keep in a 
warm place several hours; then dip each piece in a 
thick syrup, made of granulated sugar, and lay on 
oiled paper to harden. Jessie Robertson. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



TO CLEAN ZINC. 

The zinc may be kept bright by occasionally rubbing 
it with flannel cloth and a little kerosene oil. 

TO REMOVE FRUIT STAINS FROM LINEN. 

Dip the linen into boiling water, and let stand a 
while before washing. 

TO RAISE THE PILE OF VELVET. 

Invert hot iron in small pail; cover with wet cloth, 
holding velvet firmly over it; the vapor rising will 
raise the pile with assistance of a light whisk broom. 

TO CLEAN STRAW MATTING. 

Wash with a cloth dipped in clean salt and water; 
take care to wipe dry, as this prevents its turning 
yellow. 

TO CLEAN CUT GLASS. 

Wash glass and dry, then rub with prepared chalk 
and a soft brush, carefully going into all the cavities. 

CLEANING MIXTURE. 

Two ounces soap tree bark, one bar ivory soap, two 
ounces aqua ammonia, three gallons water, four ounces 
pulverized borax ; boil soap tree bark twenty minutes 
in one gallon water; boil ivory soap and borax in one 
gallon water, stirring constantly, then add the other 
gallon of water. Mrs. Geo. W. Seymour. 



105 

The use of a little vinegar in boiling poultry or meat 
will render them more tender; tainted meats will lose 
their bad taste. 

Wash oilcloth with milk and water. 

To remove ink spots, apply lemon juice and salt and 
lav in the sun. 

To remove grass stains, rub fresh lard on the stains; 
before washing let them lie long enough for the lard 
to penetrate the cloth. 

Grease spots; common wheat flour made into paste 
with cold water, will take out grease without injuring 
the most delicate fabric. 

You can take oil out of carpets, or any woolen stuffs 
bv applying buckwheat flour plentifully 

To beat the white of an egg quickly add a pinch of 
salt. 

Rub your griddle with fine salt before greasing it, 
and your cakes will not stick. 

To make an excellent furniture polish, take turpen- 
tine, linseed oil and vinegar, in equal proportions; ap- 
ply and rub with flannel. 

Iron rust may be removed by salt mixed with a lit- 
tle lemon juice; put in the sun; if necessary use two 
applications. 



^Jk 



HALVES 
25 CTS. 




POWDER 



POUNDS 
50 CTS. 

r ~ ^Re- 



conquers the Combined Skill of Ail Nations. 

TEN PER CENT. THE BEST ON EARTH. 




MEDAL AND DIPLOMA FROM THE 

GREAT COLUMBIAN COMMISSION. 

Copy of Diploma with Official Signatures. 

'THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 

BY ACT OF T EIB CONGRESS I'AVE AUTHORIZED 

The World's Columbian Commission 

AT THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION HELD IN THE CITY OF CHICAGO, STATE OF ILLINOIS 
IN THE YEAR S»t. TO LF.CREE A IVU fL FCR SPECIFIC IV-ERIT, WHICH IS SET FORTH ' 
BELOW OVER THENAR OF AN IN IVIDUAL JU GE, ACTING AS EXAMINER UPON 
THE FUl l-JG CF A BOARD OF INTERNATIONAL JUDGES TO 

H. D. THATCHER & CO , Potsdam, IM Y 

Exhibit: THATCHER'S SUGAR OF MILK BAKING POWDET. 

AWARD: FOR EXCELLENCE OP QUALITY OP 

A Cream of Tartar Baking Powder with a Milk Sugar Filling 

Samples exhibited and submitted for Analysis were found to contain 

14.38 per cent I- vailable and 15.64 per cent. Total 

CARBON DIOXIDE (Carbonic Acid.) 

W. O. AIWATER, H w WILEY 

President Departmental Committee. Individual Judge. 

GEO. R. DAVIS, JOHN BOYD THACHER 

Director General. Chairman Executive Committee of A wards. 

T W.PAL.EK, JVO T DICKINSON, 

President World's Columbian Exposition. Secretary World's Columbian Exposition » 

World's Fair Judge reported the Leavening Power of 

Sugar of Milk Baking Powder 15.64 

Without a Grain of Impurity. 
Ckeam Tabtab Powuku 

Next Highest was 14.22; Third Highest was 18.44; 






INDEX. 



SOUPS. 



Cheese Soup 5 

Celery Soup 5 

Celery Soup 5 

Mock Turtle Soup 6 

Mock Turtle Soup 7 

Potato Soup 7 

Tomato Soup 7 



Tomato Soup 7 

Tomato Soup with Stock 7 

Tapioca Cream Soup 8 

Tomato Bisque 6 

Vermicelli Soup 6 

White Soup 8 



FISH, OYSTERS AND GAME. 



Baked Codfish 13 

Baltimore Broiled Oysters 15 

Cream Salmon 9 

Cream Fish 1 1 

Cream Oysters on Toast 12 

Chicken Conserve 13 

Chicken Jelly 1 3 

Creamed Chicken 14 

Chicken Pie M 

Chicken Patties 15 

Codfish Balls 16 



Escaloped Oysters 15 

Fish or Salmon Loaf 9 

Fish a la Creme n 

Fricasseed Oysters 12 

Fried Oysters 16 

Mock Boned Turkey 13 

Oyster Shortcake 12 

Philadelphia Scrapple 16 

Steamed Oysters 15 

Turbot a la Creme 9 

Tomato Sauce for Boiled Fish. 11 



MEATS. 



Broiled Sweetbreads 19 

Beef Loaf 23 

Broiled Calf's Liver with Bacon 19 

Croquettes 19 

Chicken Croquettes 21 

Deviled Beef or Pork 17 

Dumplings for Potpie 19 

Escaloped Veal 22 

Meat Loaf 19 



Meat Croquettes 20 

Macaroni with Cheese 22 

Pressed Veal Loaf 20 

Plain Croquettes 21 

Potato Croquettes 22 

Potato Croquettes 23 

Rice Croquettes 21 

Stuffed Beefsteak 17 

Veal Cutlet 17 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 



Apple and Celery Salad 25 

Chicken Salad 27 

French Salad Dressing 27 

French Salad Dressing 28 

French Mayonnaise Dressing. . 28 
German Mayonnaise Salad 

Dressing 29 

Hollandaise Sauce for Baked or 

Boiled Fish 25 



Lettuce Salad 26 

Lettuce Dressing 28 

Made Mustard 28 

Oyster Salad 26 

Potato Salad 27 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing for 

Vegetables 27 

White Sauce for Vegetables, 

Chickens, Eggs, etc 26 



io8 



VEGETABLES. 



Baked Cabbage 31 

Cream Potatoes 32 

Corn Fritters 34 

Escaloped Onions 34 

Escaloped Apples 33 

Fried Squash 33 

French Fried Potatoes 34 

Herb or Onion Omelet 31 



PAGE. 

Peas with Cream Sauce 31 

Potato Puffs 32 

Potatoes Duchesse 32 

Recipe for Canning Corn 33 



Rice Fritters. 



34 

Stuffed Tomatoes 32 

Saratoga Chips 33 



PIES. PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



Apple Patties 35 

Apple Pie 36 

Almond Pudding 41 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 44 

Blackberry Pie 37 

Black Pudding 42 

Baked Indian Meal Pudding. .. 43 

Boiled Corn Meal Pudding. ... 43 

Cream Pie 39 

Chocolate Pie 38 

Date Pie 38 

Egg Souffle ' 43 

Fruit Puffs 



45 

Graham Pudding 4I 

Graham Pudding 42 

Lemon Tarts 36 

Lemon Pie 37 

Lemon Pie 37 

Maple Sugar Pie 35 



Mince Pie. 



4i 



Orange Pudding ^g 

Orange Pudding 39 



Pieplant Pie 35 

Pieplant Pie 35 

Pumpkin Pie 36 

Picnic Pie 36 

Pudding Sauce 39 

Pudding Sauce 46 

Pudding S mce 46 

Prune Pudding 43 

Prune Pudding 45 

Raisin Pie 36 

Raspberry Custard Pudding. . . 42 

Rice Pudding 44 

Sour Cream Pie 37 

Sour Cream Pie 38 

Steamed Pudding 41 

Strawberry Cottage Pudding. . . 42 

Snow Pudding 44 

Suet Pudding 45 

Steamed Graham Pudding 45 

Sponge Pudding 46 

Steamed Batter Pudding 46 

Tomato Fillings for Pies 38 



CREAMS AND JELLIES. 



Coffee Jelly 49 

Cider Jelly 49 

Ice Cream 47 

Ice Cream 48 

Ice Cream 48 

Lemon Sherbet 47 



Lemon Sherbet 49 

Prune Jelly 47 

Pineapple Sherbet 48 

Spanish Cream 48 

Strawberry Moose 48 



CAKES AND CAKE FILLINGS. 



Angel Cake 5 g 

Bell's Cake Dressing 61 

Cream Cake c 2 

Circle Cake 53 

Cake Without Eggs 55 



Chocolate Filling for Cake. ... 60 
Dutch Apple Cake with Lemon 



Sauce 



53 



Dried Apple Cake 54 

Dark Layer Cake 57 



109 



PAGE. 

English Walnut Cake 59 

Fruit Cake 5 2 

Fruit Cake Without Eggs 54 

Fig Loaf Cake 54 

Fruit Cake Without Spices. . . . 58 

Filling for Custard Cake 60 

Fig Cake Filling 61 

Helen's Cake Filling 60 

Ice Cream Cake 57 

Molasses Cake Without Eggs. . 54. 

New England Fruit Cake 51 

One Egg Cake 54 

Cream Cake 55 

Patty-Pan Cakes 55 



PAGE. 

Pound Cake 57 

Roll Jelly Cake 5§ 

Scripture Cake 5 1 

Spice Layer Cake 53 

Spiced Cake 55 

Soft Ginger Cake 57 

Sponge Cake 5^ 

Spanish Buns 59 

Sour Cream Layer Cake 60 

Soft Ginger Cake 61 

Washington Cake 55 

White Cake 5§ 

Washington Cake 5 2 



COOKIES, SMALL CAKES AND DOUGHNUTS 



Cream Puffs 63 

Currant Cookies 65 

Cream Cookies 65 

Cheese Crackers 65 

Cream Puffs 65 

Cocoanut Cookies 68 

Cheese Fagots 7 1 

Cheese Straws 73 

Crieme Frite (Fried Cream). . . 73 

Doughnuts 68 

Doughnuts 69 

Doughnuts 7 r 

Doughnuts 7 2 

Fruit Cookies 64 

Fritters 69 

French Toast 7 2 

Fruit Sandwiches 73 

Ginger Cookies Without Short- 
ening 63 



Graham Cookies 64 

Ginger Cookies 67 

Ginger Snaps 67 

Good Sandwiches 72 

Gateaux de Milan 7 1 

Helen's Ginger Cookies 67 

Hermit Cookies 68 

Ham Sandwiches 72 

Jumbles 64 

Lemon Cookies 67 

Molasses Cookies 63 

Maggie's White Cookies 68 

Nut Wafers 64 

Oatmeal Cookies 64 

Raised Doughnuts 69 

Raised Doughnuts 71 

Sponge Drops 68 

Salted Almonds or Peanuts. .. . 72 
Souffle au Chocolat 73 



PICKLES, MARMALADE, ETC. 



Buckeye Pickles 77 

Cucumber Pickles 78 

Cucumber Pickles 77 

Chili Sauce 7 8 

Currant Jam 7 s 

French Pickles 75 

Green Tomato Pickles 75 

Grape Jelly 79 



India Pickles 7 6 

Orange Marmalade 79 

Peach Pickles 77 

Spiced Currants 78 

Tomato Butter 75 

Tomato Butter 77 

Tomato Catsup 7 6 

Tomato Soy 7& 



BREAD AND BISCUIT 



Bread Made in Five Hours. ... 81 

Baking Powder Biscuit 82 

Bread 82 



Brown Bread 83 

Brown Bread 84 

Boston Brown Bread 81 



[0 



I'Al .!•' 



r VCiK 



Graham Bread s, Quakei Biscuit s, 

Grah ini Bread s., Swedish Bread ' ' s 

Indian Bread 83 Shortcake 84 

Oatmeal Bread 82 Spoon Bread ........'...'.'..'.'. 83 

R01 is, GR1 DD1 ,E C \KES, ETC 

Boiled Potato Yeasl 06 Potpie Crust 86 

Corn Muffins 85 Plain Crumpets 87 

Dumplings for Potpie 87 Raised Graham Griddle Cakes 86 

French Rolls 85 Squash Muffins 86 

l emon Crackers 85 

EGGS 

Bak «d Eggs go Escaloped Eggs „., 

( heese Omelet g Pond I 1I3 roast , u . 

Dropped 01 Poached Eggs on Plain Omelet '" „, 

r ' MSI So Stuffed Eggs So 

AP1M riONAL RECIPES 

v Dainty Soup 95 Fish Chowder . ()1 

Boiled rrout or Muscallonge. , 93 Ham roast ' q« 

Cheese Ramequins 93 Lobster Salad ' '„'- 

( ream Frosting os Pieplant Pie ' l)( , 

1 old NN ate > [ ce 00 Russian Cream q 6 

ofi Raspberry Shrub ' q8 



96 



^ ,' , N , 1> W ° : Sliced Cucumber Pickles. . . o, 

Dandelion Wine ., Sour Cream S ,U1 Dressing ' 97 

1 sealoped ( heese 97 Salted Finger Rolls. '...[ 95 

CANDIES 

^o Prepare Fondant 99 Langtry Bonbons.. 

Cocoanut Balis too Maple Sugar Candj .. "" 101 

Cocoanut Caramels 101 Orange Glace ' IO , 

Grilled Umonds 103 Peanut Candy '.'.'.'.'.'.['. 103 

MISCEI 1 VNEOUS 

Cleaning Mixture 104 To Raise the Pile of Velvet 104 

1° £ lean ■ uv 104. To Clean Straw Matting 104 

ro Clean Cut Glass ' ' 104 



Linen ( 



°4 



I I I 



^ L. H. WHITNEY ^ 
Coal, Cements, Fertilizers 

Prompt Attention Given all Orders. GantOfl, N. Y. 



MEMORANDA. 



R 72 







' 6 * 



4 -. 
















% 







^ 



0©. 



A \ 









.0 o. 






i * 



V 



"' ^ 



:<f 









u * 

> 



'A , ->. 






^' 



^ ^ 






Ct- - O V 







■ .A , * .o ^ A ,') 



"^ ' '<> -JO 

o 








