MM 




iinimii ■ i.i 



wm 




ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^--=^:i>- :^--- ~ \. 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 





CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 OSa 618 361 




The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924089618361 



THE WAY WE DID 



AT COOKING SCHOOL, 



BY 

VIRGINIA HEED, 
Editor of "I^aily Vheer for All the Tear. 



NEW YORK 
AMERICAN PUBLISHERS CORPORATION 

310-318 Sixth Avenue 



Copyright, 1896, 

BY 

VIRGINIA REEI> 



TmS BOOK IS DEDICATED 

TO 

th:e SI3: 

WHO, TOGETHER WITH VIRGINIA REED, COMPRISED 

THE NORMAL CLASS 

AT 

THE PHILADELPHIA COOKING SCHOOL 

FOR THE 

SCHOOL YEAR OF 1894-6. 



" Not to know at large of things remote 
rrom use, obscure and subtle, but to know 
That which before us lies in daily life, 
Is the prime wisdom." 

—Milton. 



PREFACE. 



Believing that the information acquired by some 
persons at the cost of considerable time and money 
would be interesting to others, and also be apprecia- 
ted and enjoyed by many who have not the time or 
money to spend in thus gaining knowledge, this vol- 
ume has been most carefully prepared, with the hope 
of gratifying those less fortunate in this respect than 
the writer. 

June, 1896. 



CONTENTS. 



LETTER I PAGS 

Description of tlie Sclioolrooms — Questions in regard to Stoves 

and Fuel 1 

LETTER IL 
Report of Lecture on Fuel — Questions in regard to Cooliing 
Utensils and Water — Soup Stock — Vegetable Soup — Rib 
Roast in the Oven '. 9 

LETTER III. 
Report of Lecture on Ventilation — Questions in regard to Boil- 
ing and Baking — To Broil Steak — Veal Cutlets — Tomato 
Sauce — Beef Stew with Dumplings — Boiled Leg of Mutton 
— Caper Sauce — Pressed Meat 19 

LETTER IV. 
Report of Lecture on Ventilation, continued — Questions in re- 
gard to Frying, Broiling and Roasting — Quick Biscuits — 
To Corn Beef — Breakfast Bacon — Plain Hasb — Browned 
Flour — Corn Gems — Yeast Bread — Maslied Potatoes — Boiled 
Onions — Cream Sauce— Soft Gingerbread — Stuffed Potatoes 
— Corned Beef Hash — Stewed Turnips — Stewed Prunes 38 

LETTER V. 
Diagrams of Animals and Questions as to Cooking tbe Various 
Pieces — Report of Lecture on Microbes — Stewed Cranberries 
—Rusk— Grafton Cake 39 

LETTER' VI. 
Turkey Salad in Aspic — Mayonnaise Dressing — Swedish Salad 
— French Dressing — Russian Salad — Puff Paste — Shells for 
Patties — Lady Locks — Vol-au-Vent — To Cream Oysters 51 



X OOnTeHTS. 

LETTER VII. PAoa 

Whole Wheat Bread — Beef Tea — Beef Juice — Albumin and 
Milk — Eggnog — Egg Flip — Barley Water — Egg Soup — 
Mulled Wine — Indian Gruel — Oatmeal Gruel — Plum Por- 
ridge — Plain Arrowroot Gruel — Arrowroot with Egg — Farina 
Gruel — Sago Gruel — German Gruel — Rice Flour Gruel — 
Carrageen Gruel — Apple Gruel — Peach Juice — Cocoa — Cocoa 
from the Nibs — Racahout Powder — Raoahout — Racahout 
Blanc Mange — Oatmeal for Breakfast — Wheat Granules — 
Farina — Rye Mush — Cracked Wheat 59 

LETTER VIII. 
Report of the Doctor's Lectures on the Workings of the Digestive 
Organs and Diseases connected Therewith — Gluten Bread — 
Gluten Gems 68 

LETTER IX. 
Diseases, continued — Rheumatism — Diabetes — Bright's Disease 
— Typhoid Fever — Lemon Jelly — Wine Jelly — Calf's-Foot 
Jelly — Dry Toast — Milk Toast — Cream Toast — Panada — 
Poached Eggs — Boiled Eggs — Apple Water — Toast Water — 
Cinnamon Tea 78 

LETTER X. 
Diseases, continued — Phthisis — Cholera Infantum — Asthma — 
Cold — Paralysis — Scrofula — Bowel Trouble — Scarlet Fever 
— Wine Whey — Cup Custards — Apple Snow — Velvet Cream 
— Carrageen — Crystallized Eggs — Separated or Frothed Egg 
— Lentil Gruel — Suet in Milk — Leban 86 

Letter xi. 

Report of Lecture on Plants and Starch — Questions on Classifica- 
tion and Composition of Vegetables — Tomato Soup with 
Stock — Croutons — Tomato Soup without Stock — Turkish 
Soup— Clear Vegetable Soup— Black Bean Soup— Cream of 
Potato Soup 93 

LETTER XII. 
Report of Lecture on Digestion of Starch — Questions in re- 
gard to Vegetables, Oils and Wheat — Baked Rib of Beef 
with Yorkshire Pudding— Pot Roast of Beet — Brown Sauce 
— Boiled Fish IO3 



GONTSlNTB. xi 

LETTER XIII. PAGB 

Report of Lecture on Starches and Ferments — Questions in re- 
gard to White Yeast Bread and Salt Rising Bread, and their 
Proper Baking — Trussing and Baking Poultry — Qiblet 
Sauce — Stewed Chicken , . 110 

LETTER XIV. 

Report of Lecture on Sugars and Starches — Questions concern- 
ing Rye, Corn, Oats, Barley and Bucli;wheat, and making 
Bread from Rye, Corn and Buckwheat — To Boil Tripe — 
Stewed Tripe — Saute Fish — Kidney SautI 119 

LETTER XV. 

Report of Lecture on Fermentation — Questions in regard to 
Fruits and Milk, Butter and Cheese — Cecils — Bechamel 
Sauce — Codfish Balls — French Fried Potatoes — Beef Cro- 
quettes — Fried Oysters — Care of Oil after Frying 128 

LETTER XVI. 

Syrian Bread — Cabbage Bolls — Syrian Hash — Syrian Sweets — 
Fondant — English Walnut Creams — Cream Dates — Cream 
Cherries — Neapolitan Cream Blocks — Orange Glaces- Grape 
and Cherry Glaces — Cream Chocolates — Report of Lecture on 
OilsandFats 139 

LETTER XVII. 

Report of Lecture on Oleomargarine — Questions in regard to 
Eggs and Fish — English MufiBns — I'op Overs — Plain Waf- 
fles — Chicken in Jelly — Mince-Meat 148 

LETTER XVIII. 

Report of Lecture on Testing Butter — Questions in regard to 
Lobsters, Shrimps, Scallops, Mussels and Clams — Plain 
Paste — Pumpkin Pie — Apple Pie— Cranberry Pie — To Serve 
Boiled Lobster — Stewed Oysters — Fricassee of Oysters 158 

LETTER XIX. 
Report of Lecture on Milk — Questions in regard to Terrapin, 
Poultry, Game and Nuts — Spinach — Drawn Butter — Boiled 
Cauliflower — Stewed Cabbage— Boiled Asparagus 167 



Xii dONTENTS. 

LETTER XX. paoe 

Report of Lecture on Milk, continued— Questions in regard to 
Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Tapioca, Arrowroot, Sago and Irish Moss 
— Baked Macaroni— Cream Macaroni — Cheese Ramakins — 
Welsh, Rarebit 177 

LETTER XXI. 
Report of l^ecture on Proteids — Questions in regard to Sugar 
andVarious Spices — Plain Omelet — Spanish Omelet — Deviled 
Eggs — Beauregard Eggs — Omelet Souffle 186 

LETTER XXII. 
Report of Another Lecture on Proteids — Questions in regard to 
Cinnamon, Pepper, Ginger, Mustard and Vanilla — New Cen- 
tury Pudding — Hard Sauce — Batter Pudding with Cherries — 
Fairy or Nun's Butter — Wafer Pudding — Foamy Sauce — 
Apple Sponge — Vanilla Sauce — Peacli Sponge — Coifee Bava- 
rian Cream — Caramel Bavarian Cream — Snow Pudding 195 

LETTER XXIII. 
Report of Lecture on Disinfectants — Questions in regard to Lard- 
ing and Cake Baking — Layer Cake — Spice Cake — Chocolate 
Cake — Angel Food — Sand Tarts — Cream Puils — Calcutta 
Curry Powder — Curry Powder , 204 

LETTER XXIV. 
Lesson on Scouring — Miscellaneous Questions — Bouillon — Cara- 
mel — Consomme — Mock Bisque Soup — Oxtail Soup — Mock 
Turtle Soup — Egg Ball — Soup a la Reine — Pepper Pot 213 

LETTER XXV. 
Table Serving — Miscellaneous Questions — Canning Apples — 

Apple Jelly 223 

LETTER XXVI. 
Coffee Cake — German Cake — Eggs jt la Newburg — Egg Cutlets 
— Cocoanut Milk — East India Curry of Chicken — Chicken 
Timbale — Swedish Timbale — Rice a I'Imperatrice — Tomato 
Aspic Moulded — Hygienic Fig Biscuits — Brioche — Jelly 
Roll — Mrs. Beeton's English Muffins — Mrs. Marshall's 
Cocoanut Cake — Mrs. Marshall's Ham Salad — Mrs. Mar- 
shall's Puff Balls — Cinnamon Buns — Quick Cinnamon Buns — 



CONTENTS. xiii 

PAGE 

Jumbles, No. 1 — Potato Biscuit — Compote of Apples — 
GS.teau St. Houore — Vienna Rolls — Miss N.'s Ginger Pud- 
ding — Breakfast Gems — Griddle Cakes — Sweet Milk Biscuits 
— Quick or Peptik Bread — Suet Pudding — Detecting Adul- 
terated Milk and Mustard Floiir 333 

LETTER XXVII. 
"Left Overs" — Larded Fillet witli Mushroom Sauce — Fish 
Larded and Baked — Sauce Hollandaise — Stewed Beef's Heart 
— Stewed Kidney — Braised Calf's Liver — Beef a la Mode — 
Chicken Cutlets — Lobster Chops — Sauce Tartaie — French 
Crullers — German Crullers — Doughnuts — Mince Pie — 
Lemon Custard — Baked Chicken Pie — Philadelphia Stewed 
Terrapin — Sweetbreads a la Bechamel — Baked Sweetbreads 
and Peas — Boned Chicken 346 

LETTER XXVIII. 
Fruit Cake — Plunkets — Cream Sponge Cake — Orange Icing — 
Meringues — Chocolate Eclairs — Chocolate Icing — English 
Plum Pudding — Cream Chocolate Pudding — Newport Pud- 
ding — Vanilla Ice Cream — Baked Ice Cream — Iced Rice Pud- 
ding with a Compote of Oranges — Montrose Pudding — 
Strawberry Waterlce — Montrose Sauce — Caramel Ice Cream 
— Orange Souffle— Lemon Water-Ice — Frozen Apricots — 
Frozen Strawberries — Charlotte Eusse — Orange Sherbet 263 



THE WAY WE DID AT 

COOKING SCHOOL. 



LETTER L 



" Going to cooking school ? What put that idea in 
your head ?" 

"When I was at the Columbian Exposition I heard 
one of the Scientific Cooking Teachers say that the 
women are responsible for the greater part of the dys- 
pepsia and drunkenness in the world, because they do 
not cook the food properly, even when they do select 
the proper articles for cooking. Now, if that is true 
I would like to understand cooking from a scientific 
standpoint." 

"And so would L I am sure I would do all I could 
to prevent my baby boy from ever suffering from 
either cause. Are you not afraid to go so far away 
among strangers ?" 

" One thousand miles is a long way from home, I 
know, but the school officials have promised to meet 
me, so I feel easy about going." 

"How will they know you?" 

" I sent them a piece of my traveling dress and told 
them what train I would be on ; so that is all right. 
Grandma approves of my going. She said only this 
afternoon : ' I think it is a very, sensible idea. If more 
of the girls took an interest in such work they would 
benefit themselves as well as their home folks, and be 
happier and more contented.' " 

" I wish I too were to have the advantages of at- 



'Z THE WAY WE DIB AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

tending such a school. I feel my incompetency so 
often." 

"Oh, never mind, Cousin Alethea ; I shall write and 
tell you every little thing," 

" Thank you. You are very kind, Indeed. I never 
would have dared to ask such a great favor of you. 
Eeally, I fear that with all your other duties you will 
not have time for so much writing." 

" Writing down everything will help to impress it 
on my own mind. So do not be uneasy ; I shall re- 
ceive as much benefit as any one." 

'* When do you leave for the East ?" 

" Day after to-morrow. Look out soon for letter 
number one." 

"I am glad you have one more day here. I shall 
see you again before your departure." 

October 15, 189-. 

Mt Dear Cousin Alethea : The long journey is over 
without an incident worth telling. They met me as 
they promised and accompanied me to a boarding 
place where three other of the cooking school pupils 
are boarding. It seems to be a very pleasant place 
and is near the school. 

The main schoolroom is longer than wide, with three 
windows on the west. In this room there are two 
long, narrow tables ; these tables are placed parallel 
with an aisle between them. At the south end of the 
aisle is the stool upon which the teacher sits in front 
of a small table. The long tables have drawers in 
them opening on the sides next the wall. Each one 
of us has a special drawer assigned her ; so her place 
is always by that drawer. 

Each drawer contains a salt dredge and pepper 
dredge ; two measuring cups, holding a half-pint each ; 
one cup is divided into thirds and the other into 
fourths ; two teaspoons ; one tablespoon ; one spatula* 
one common knife and fork ; one narrow, sharp-pointed 
knife for paring and boning ; a small sieve ; a flour 
dredge ; a rolling pin ; a glass lemon squeezer ; and a 



rna way we did at cooking school. 3 

wooden spoon. A bread board slips in above each 
drawer. 

Under each table is a shelf on which are placed 
wooden and granite-ware bowls used in mixing, and 
the different dishes and pajis used in baking, and also 
whip-churns of various sizes. 

Against the wall, opposite the windows, stand the 
refrigerator and a dresser ; on the dresser and mantel 
are placed the molds and cutters of various fancy 
forms, and a few plates and other dishes. 

At the south tnere is a closet where we put our 
wraps. This closet also contains two cupboards, in 
which part of the provisions used in cooking are kept. 

On the north wall are two cabinets, where the food 
substances that have been analyzed are kept in bottles. 
Between these cabinets is a large arch, which opens 
into a small room containing a coal stove, of the variety 
which some people call a portable range. This stove 
has a gauze door. 

In this small room the flour bins are fastened to the 
wall. The saucepans, kettles, farina boilers, chopping 
tray and cutter, quart measure, funnel, meat grinder, 
and a tray containing trussing and larding needles are 
kept on shelves. Under the shelves are hung the 
frying pans, omelet pans, broilers, and gem pans. On 
the one long table this room contains stand boxes of 
sugar and spices. The other table in this room is a 
round marble-topped one. 

Still further to the north is a smaller room provided 
with hot and cold water and furnished with one table, 
upon which all the soiled utensils are washed by a 
colored girl. v 

You perceive everything is conveniently arranged? 
for us, and we are seven — six girls and one married* 
woman. 

Each day so far we have prepared a lesson from a 
small Question Book published by the principal of the 
school. We find the answers to these questions bv 
consulting various books of reference. We were told 
to provide ourselves with a copy of " The Handbook 



4 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

of Household Science," bv Edward L. Youmans, M.D., 
and " A Treatise on Food and Dietetics," by F. W. 
Paw, M.D., F.R.S.,iin<l "Tlie Chemistry of Cookery," 
W. Mattieu Williams, althougii there are other works 
which it is very nice to have for occasional reference, 
such as "The'Chemistry of Common Life," by James 
F. W. Johnston, revised by Arthur Herbert Church, 
and " Food," by A. H. Church. 

I will write out now the questions and answers we 
have had. 

What is a ran^e ? A range is an iron box used for 
cooking. The flues are built in a wall of brick and 
mortar to which this iron box is attached. The range 
is divided into different chambers. The coal chamber 
should be large enough to hold coal suliicient to keep 
a, fire hot for a long time. There is a draft at the top 
of the coal chamber ; below this there is a place for 
ashes with a draft on the lowest level. The oven oc- 
cupies the remaining space, with two flues above and 
below. The heat circulates over the top of the oven, 
then down the back and tiirough the lower flues 
finally rising to the top of the oven at the further back 
corner. 

What is a stove? A stove used for the same pur- 
pose is made on the same plnn with this exception : it 
contains its flues within itself, and therefore can be 
moved from place to place. 

What is the difference between a range and a stove? 
The difference between a range and a stove is in the 
arrangement of the flues. The range has been built 
in the brick and mortar wall, while the stove has them 
built within itself. 

Describe the draught of a chimney ? The hot gases 
and the surrounding heated air expand because rarer 
and lighter, and since the atmospheric particles move 
among each other with the most perfect freedom, the 
colder and heavier air takes the lower position, and by 
so doing pushes the warm air upward. The cold air 
becomes heated and asciMuis, and other takes its place 
so a continuous current is established. 



THE WAT WK DID AT VOOKING SCHOOL. 5 

Why do new cliimneys smoke? New chimneys 
smoke because the brick and mortar being damp form 
good conductors of heat, and take it from the rising 
current of warm air. This then condenses and ob- 
structs the ascent. When the chimney becomes dry 
and is covered with non-conducting soot this source of 
trouble is removed. 

WlHit is the difference between a flue and a chim- 
ney ? The flue is the passage for heat, while tlie 
chimney is the passage for waste. 

What is fuel? Fuel is anything that gives out heat 
during the process of combining with the oxygen of 
the air. 

What is necessary to kindle a fire ? Friction or per- 
cussion is necessary to generate heat sufficient to start 
combustion. 

For kindling coal, which is the better, hard or soft 
wood ? Soft wood in the form of charcoal. 

Explain the difference between hard and soft wood. 
The harder and lieavier woods have their fibers more 
densely packed together, than the soft and lighter 
woods, and even when of the same species those grow- 
ing in dr}' soil or exposed in open fields are more con- 
solidated than those growing in wet ground or in 
forests. 

What takes place after the combustive process has 
commenced? The fuel disappears and the air is 
changed. 

Is the substance of the fuel destroyed ? No. 

What becomes of it? It has merely changed its 
form to that of smoke, gas and ashes 

Why do soft woods burn more readily than liard 
woods ? Chiefly on account of the difference in chemi- 
cal composition. Soft woods, being loose and spong}', 
admit the air more freely. 

What is coal? Coal is organic matter that has un- 
dergone heat and pressure. It contains carbon, 
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and a little sulphur. 

Describe the different kinds. Hard coal has been 
subjected to great pressure, which has expelled the 



6 THE WAT WE DID AT COORINO SCHOOL. 

gases through the porous covering. The greater the 
pressure the harder tlio coal. Wliere the gases could 
not escape bituminous coal was formed. Anthracite 
is the hardest of all, and lignite the softest. Lignite 
still retains the woody structure and is the least 
charred. There are many degrees of density between 
the two. 

Which would you use for cooking purposes ? Hard 
coal. 

Which is best for cooking, large or small coal? 
A coal about the size of an English walnut called 
chestnut. 

Why must we use wood to kindle coal? The great 
density of the coal makes it slow to burn, so that we 
have to use wood in the form of charcoal in order to 
raise the heat of the whole mass to the point of igni- 
tion before it can burn. 

How should a lire be " fixed " to keep over night ? 
Close the lower draught so that the fire cannot burn 
so rapidly, and open the upper draught so as to keep 
the top of the coal cool, and the fire will stay fixed 
over night. 

Why does a coal fire remain stationary after it is 
" fixed ?" The tire remains stationary' because the coal 
does not have a chance to become heated so as to burn 
rapidly, and yet has heat enough to keep it from goino- 
out. 

Why must you have an excess of air to kindle a coal 
fire? You must not. An excess of air would reduce 
the temperature below the point of ignition and the 
coal could not burn. - 

Is it necessary to use lighter material for kindling 
wood? It depends somewhat on the wood j'ou are 
using. Soft wood, like pine, in the form of shavings 
or tine splinters will start a tire if touched by a 
lighted match. 

Describe coke— charcoal. Coke is the residue left 
after charring bituminous coal. Charcoal is the 
residue left after wood has been slowly burned in an 
enclosed place with but a limited supply of air. 



TEE WAT Wm DID AT COOKING SGEOOL. 7 

What fuel produces the largest amount of heat? 
Wood charcoal. 

What is gasoline? Gasoline is the lightest, most 
volatile liquid produced by the distillation of petro- 
leum. 

Desciibe a gasoline stove, and tell how to use it. 
A gasoline stove is an iron tabie with rows of burners. 
The tank for gasoline is placed above and at the back 
and is connected with each burner by a tube. Turn a 
stop cock and the gasoline falls on a metal plate at 
the burner a drop at a time and when ignited generates 
the gas that burns. Place the vessel containing the 
article to be cooked over the lighted burner and let it 
Qook as on any other kind of a stove. 

What is coal oil? Coal oil is a fluid taken from 
coal beds or deposits, and is a product of distillation 
from bituminous coal. 

Describe a coal-oil stove and tell how to use it. A 
coal-oil stove consists of a standard which supports a. 
tank holding the oil. To this tank is fitted a burner 
wiiich holds the wick, one end of which is immersed 
in the oil. A piece of gauze is fitted around the 
burner which makes the current of air, from below, 
more uniform. A metal frame surrounds the burner 
upon which the cooking utensils rest. The wick is 
saturated with oil which when ignited heats whatever 
is placed above it. You raise or lower the wick as 
you wish to increase or decrease the amount of heat. 

What is gas? Gas is chiefly produced from bitu- 
minous coal which is placed in tight cast-iron vessels 
called retorts. These retorts are fixed in furnaces and 
heated to redness by an external fire. The high heat 
decomposes the coal, producing gaseous and liquid 
compounds. The gaseous products are separated from 
the liquid and tli«n purified. 

Describe gas stoves and tell how to use them. A 
gas stove consists of an iron box divided into com- 
partments with the broiler at the bottom, the oven in 
the r-iddlo and with rows of burners on top. A tube 
connects the burners with the gas supply. You tura 



8 THE WAT WE BID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

a stop cock and the gas flows along to the top of the 
burner, where you set it on fire by applying a lighted 
match. The openings in the burners are made in 
various ways. On the variety of the burner and the 
amount of pressure under which the gas flows dejiend 
the quality of the gas flame. You place tlie article to 
be cooked in a vessel on tiie iron framework above 
the lighted gas. 

"Which is best and why ? That having an Argand 
burner because the air coming up in the center as well 
as around the outside mingles with the gas and so 
supplies enough oxygen to consume ail the gas in 
burning and yet does not supply more than is needed. 

Do coke and charcoal require difl'erent drafts from 
other fuel? Coke burns more readily than anthracite 
but requires about the same draft as coal. Charcoal 
ignites more readily than wood and burns easily in a 
coal or wood stove or when cxjiosed in the open air. 

Describe the process of building fires. Examine the 
grate to be sure it is properly turned, then place some 
light material on it, and then some wood, and lastly 
some coal. Open the lower draft and apply a lighted 
match to the light material first put in place. 

A professor lectures to us each week on chemistry 
and we have to write a report of the lecture and pass 
it in for correction. This week the lecture was on 
fuel. When my report has been returned to me, I 
will copy it for you. 

The weather here is truly beautiful, but being among 
strangers I have not seen enough of the city to tell 
you anything about it. 

With love to the home folks, 1 remain, 
Your affectionate cousin. 

ViEGiNiA Eeed. 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKtNG SCHOOL. 



LETTEE II. 

October 26, 189- 

My Deae Cousin Alethea : I will now copy my re- 
port of the lecture on Fuel. 

Our fuels consist mainly of carbon and hydrogen. 
Combustion, in general, is a rapid union of a substance 
with oxygen, and is accompanied by heat and light. 
In fermentation, decay, putrefaction and fire the 
process is identical in regard to the chemical change. 

Charcoal, coke and anthracite possess the most 
carbon of our common fuels, and therefore give forth 
the most heat in burning. 

Alcohol, oil and wood contain more hydrogen than 
the other fuels, and consequently have greater illu- 
minating power. 

In a flame there are three divisions. The blue or 
innermost part being the carbon and hydrogen which 
is not ignited and therefore will not burn you. In 
the next division the hydrogen has united with the 
oxvgen and gives a bright light by heating the carbon 
to white heat before burning the carbon. The tliird 
division is a fringe surrounding the bright part, but 
we do not see it until something like dust, table salt, 
or soda is thrown into the flame. 

The carbon that is heated is afterward consumed 
and goes off as a gas, unless there is a good deal of it, 
when it may appear as smoke. When the carbon 
comes in contact with a colder surface, it will deposit 

600t. 

Alcohol contains so little carbon that it burns mostly 
at once, while turpentine contains so much that it 
makes a smoke. Turpentine to burn with a clear 
light requires an extra amount of oxygen. Turpentine 



10 THE WAT WE DID AT GOOKINQ SCHOOL. 

and alooUol mixed together ia due proportion correct 
each other and burn with a pleasant light. This com- 
bination is called camphene or burning fluid, and is a 
dangerous explosive. 

Gas can be made to burn with a non-luminous flame 
bv admitting more air to it before it is ignited. 
When gas burns with a noisy flame and is green within 
it is in a dangerous condition and should be turned off 
unless you can diminish Ihe quantity of the air or in- 
crease the flow of tiie gas. 

The professor stated again that hydrogen having 
such an aSinity for. oxygen combines with it, and in 
burning heats the carbon to a white heat before burn- 
ing the carbon, and when a fuel does not possess 
enough hydrogen to generate gas sufficient to heat all 
the carbon to that point, the carbon would not be 
entirely consumed, but would go off as smoke. It is 
the carbon heated to a white heat that gives the 
brightness to a flame. 

The professor performed the experiment of making 
charcoal in a test tube and in so doing generated 
wood-gas and burned the gas at the mouth of the 
tube. In this gas there are from fifteen to twenty 
different ingredients. One is acetic acid, from which 
a great deal of the so-called white wine vinegar of 
commerce is made by adding water. Another in- 
gredient is wood alcohol and another tar ; beechwood 
tar yields the most creosote. It is the creosote that 
is so irritating in smoke. In burning wood in free air ' 
these gases are burned as soon as formed ; at least 
there is a very small amount that escapes. 

The Davy lamp and Bunsen burner were explained. 
They are a variation of the same principle. In the 
Davy lamp a wire gauze is used, being composed of 
tubes about one-twentieth of an inch in length and 
very narrow in diameter, yet you can burn ga^s either 
side of the gauze and the flame will not pass throuo-h. 
In the Bunsen burner a long tube is used and the Sas 
is burned at the top of the tube. The tube, of course 
is wider than t!je other in order to correspond with its 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. H 

length, and since the air is admitted below and mingles 
with the gas before it is ignited the heat will be 
intense and there will be no smoke or soot. 

Tlie Davy lamp is used in mines to avoid explosions 
from tire damp. When tlie flame grows pale and en- 
larges it shows the presence of fire damp. 'Indeed 
this gas will burn within tlie gauze but there is no 
danger of an explosion so long, as the gauze remains 
perfect and cool. 

Bunsen's burner is used particularly in laboratories. 

Hydrogen burns entirely,'^but carbon has such an 
affinity for oxygen that it cannot ^ilways obtain a 
supply. To entirely consume the carbon every twelve 
grains of carbon require thirty -two of oxygen, j'et 
twelve grains of carbon will ignite with sixteen of 
oxygen. In the latter case it gives off a deadly gas, 
and we cannot tell by observation which is being 
formed, because both gases are colorless' and odorless. 
Both may, indeed, be formed in a stove at the same 
time. The poisonous gas may be changed into the 
other by a free adniission ofair. We have noticed it 
burning with a blue flame when we have opened a. 
door to a coal stove. It is considered a fruitful source 
of disease. A little at a time is absorbed into the 
s\'stem, and by and by the system cannot perform its 
functions on account of this poison, and the person 
dies. 

We have been cooking some each day since I wrote 
you so we have bad only thirty questions, whicli were 
those I shall now give. 

Describe the different kinds of cooking utensils. 
Some are made for holding considerable liquid and 
are used for boiling or stewing ; others are shallow 
and are used for baking or sauteing while others are 
merely wires and are used for broiling and toasting. 

What vessels are best to keep their contents warm? 
Vessels of polished metal having metallic covers, as in 
double boilers. 

Write a list of all necessary utensils in a well-fur- 
nished kitchen. One good stove or range. Of granite 



12 TBE WAT WE DTD AT COOKINa SCHOOL. 

or agate ware there should be one six-quart covered 
kettle, two teakettles, one of thein flal-bottomed, one 
ten-quart covered soup kettle, two pint sauce pans, 
two one-quart sauce pans, one deep frying pan for 
croquettes, one Turk's-head, two two-quart covered 
kettles, one batter bucket, two pitchers, one wash 
basin, one mixing bowl, one set of gem pans, two 
round baking pans, one two-quart farina boiler, one 
teapot, one ten-quart oval soup kettle for boiling ham, 
two large dishpans. 

Of wooden ware there should be one large bread 
board, one meat board, one fish board, one oval chop- 
ping tray, one potato masher, one salt box, one spice 
box, one butter paddle, six wooden spoons assorted 
sizes, one pastry brush, one small paint brush for 
greasing pans, two stove brushes, one scrubbing brush 
for tables, one scrubbing brush for vegetables, one 
scrubbing brush for glass and china, two wooden forks, 
one hardwood rolling-pin, two wooden spatulas, one 
knife scouring-box, one refrigerator, one floor mop 
and two dish mops. 

Of tinware there should be one tea canister, one 
coffee canister, one cake box, one cracker box, one oil 
can, one large funnel, one small funnel, one steamer 
with lid, one vegetable press, one common colander, 
one flat colander, two small dishpans, one fine wire 
soup strainer, one wire frying- basket, one nutmeg 
grater, two large graters, one long-handled skimmer, 
one long-handled dipper, six moulds assorted, one 
quart graduated measure, six dredging-boxes for 
various contents, six round basins assorted, one bread 
box, two one-quart milk cans, two two-quart milk 
cans, two gravy strainers, one coffee biggin, two half- 
pint cups divided in thirds and fourths. 

Of steel and iron ware there should be one wire 
dish cloth, one pair of scissors, two dripping pans, one 
waffle iron, one wire broiler for fish, one fine wire 
broiler for toast, one wire broiler for steaks, one set of 
scales, six bread pans, four by eight being a good size, 
two large spoons, one large meat fork, one butcher- 



TEE WA 7 WIS DID A T COOEINO SCHOOL. 13 

knife, two boning knives, one sharp-pointed paring- 
knife, one cliopping-knife, one can opener, one cork- 
screw, one hammer, one galvanized garbage bucket 
with lid, one roaster, one porcelain-lined preserve 
kettle, one wire kettle lifter, one freezer, six kitchen 
forks, six kitchen knives, one griddle spade, Lhree 
baking sheets, tacks and screw-hooks. 

Of earthen and. stone ware there should be two jugs, 
two butter pots, six jars assorted, twelve baking cups, 
one bean-pot, six half-pint kitchen cups, six bowls 
assorted, four small bowls, six large soup plates for 
meats. 

Of miscellaneous articles there should be one 
graduated glass measure, one jelly bag, two pastry 
bags, two floor cloths, two dish cloths, twelve dish 
towels, twelve hand towels, pudding cloths, dust 
cloths, cheese cloth for various purposes, twine, six 
holders, Harkinson kitchen table, one chair and one 
footstool. 

Name the different kinds of materials used in cook- 
ing utensils. Iron, tinned- iron plate or tin ware, 
copper, brass which is an alloy of zinc and copper, 
enameled iron ware, earthen ware, porcelain ware 
and aluminum ware. 

Which is best and. why? Enameled iron ware is 
the -best because it resists the action of acids and is 
light to handle and is easily kept clean. 

Describe a double boiler and give its uses. A 
double boiler is a covered saucepan or pail fitting into 
a larger one so there is space for water below and 
around it. It is used to oook delicate substances and 
for long and slow cooking. 

What is the chief objection to iron for kitchen 
utensils ? The chief objection springs from its power- 
ful attraction for oxygen. It imparts a,n irony or 
styptic taste to many articles cooked in it. It is 
better in pans for baking than in pots or kettles. 

What are the objections to copper? Copper is 
easily acted ujion by aliments which are in our food 
and which with the copper form poisons. Vinegar, 



14 TEE WAT WE DID Al COOKING SCHOOL. 

salt, fats and sugar are some of these aliments. "With 
vinegar it forms copper acetate and with salt copper 
chloride. 

How can you protect copper utensils — and iron ? 
By giving them a coat of tin. 

Is zinc ever used for cooking purposes ; if so, why ? 
Zinc is unfit for cooking utensils though it is some- 
times used for making moulds for freezing dishes and 
for milk pans. Some claim that milk will keep sweet 
longer in it so that more cream would arise. Even if 
that were true it would be because the poisonous 
lactate of zinc had formed in the milk. Heat causes 
the zinc to form a poison. 

What might be called perfect cooking utensils? 
Granite, opal or agate ware. 

What is the composition of these utensils ? Iron 
glazed with a composition of feldspar, silica and rosin, 
with some other ingredient added to give the par- 
ticular color. 

What may be said of the glazing on earthen vessels? 
Vessels covered with salt glazing are good if the 
glazing is smooth, but the most of the glazes have lead 
in them and are unhealthful. 

Describe the method of cleaning these various 
utensils. Copper utensils are cleaned with salt and 
vinegar. Iron utensils are cleaned with salt and suet 
and paper, w^hile for tin use sand or sapolio. For 
granite or porcelain ware use sa[)olio or soap and hot 
water. 

How are alimentary principles divided ? Into 
simple aliments and compound aliments. Simple 
aliments are divided into nitrogenous, carbonaceous 
and inorganic. 

What are simple aliments ? Simple aliments are 
those which are capable of being separated from each 
other and examined independently, such as starch, 
sugar and glutin. 

What are compound aliments ? Compound aliments 
are made up of various simple aliments, such as grain, 
roots and meats. 



TEE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SGIIOOL. 35 

"What are the non-nitrogenous — and what tlie 
nitrogenous? Non-nitrogenous aliments are those 
containing no nitrogen, such as starch, sugar, gum, 
<nl arid vegetable acids. Nitrogenous aliments are 
those which do contain nitrogen, such as albumin, 
fibrin, glutin and casein. 

What other element have we which belongs to 
neither? Water. 

What is one of the most important properties of 
water ? The power to dissolve substances placed in it. 

What is this combination called ? A solution. 

What is a saturated solution ? Water that has dis- 
solved so much of a solid substance that it will dis- 
solve no more is said to be saturated. 

Has water the power to dissolve all substances? 
No. 

Does it act alike on all substances ? No. It acts 
more quickly on a powdered substance than on a 
solid one. One pound of water dissolves two pounds of 
sugar but only six ounces of salt. 

Which dissolves a solid substance more readily, 
hot or cold water ? Hot water generally, though 
lime is an exception which requires cold water. 

How must you proceed to dissolve* salt and sugar 
quickly ? Why ? Make a powder of them and 
stir the water in which they are placed, or else sus- 
pend them just below the surface of tbe water so 
the water will have access to each portion. The 
saturated water being heavier tliiin the clear water 
falls to the bottom and so makes room for the other 
to absorb what it will. 

Is there any perfect]}^ pure natural water? No. 

Which of the natural waters is the least con- 
taminated? Kain water falling far away from houses 
and at the close of a protracted storm. 

Why is boiled water flat to the taste ? Boiled 
water tastes flat because its natural gases, or those 
derived from the atmosphere, have been driven off 
by the heat. 

How can you tell the difference between hard and 



16 TEE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

soft water? Test it with soap. If soft it will make 
a nice lather, but if it is hai'd it will give a curdled 
appearance. 

When we actually began to cook the first thing 
we did was to make sonp stock. We have lesson 
cards on wliich are printed various recipes. They 
are compiled from Mrs. llorer's Cook Book. The 
principle employed in preparing different dishes, if 
scientific, should be the same, no matter whether the 
" rule of proportion " is taken from the Wliite House, 
the Phdadelphia, the Buckeye, or the Boston Cook 
Book. 

Soup Stock. — For the soup stock we used juicy, 
lean uncooked beef, because cooked or stale meat 
would not give a clear stock. We wiped the meat 
with a dampened towel and cut the meat from the 
bone (it was a shin bone). The meat was cut into 
pieces about an inch square, so the water would have 
a chance to act on ' every part. We placed the bones 
on tile bottom of a granite kettle (a porcelain kettle 
would do as well),' and put the meat on top of the 
bones. We then added live quarts of cold, soft 
water and stood the kettle on the back part of the 
range for an liour, so that the cold water might 
draw out all the substance it could from the meat 
and soften tiie texture. At the end of the hour we 
pli'.ced the kettle over a good fire. When the water 
began to steam and the scum had risen, we placed 
the kettle on a more moderate part of the fire and 
added a cup of cold water and skimmed off the 
scum. We covered the kettle and left it where its 
contents woukl simmer gently for four hours ; at 
the end of which time we added one onion, one car- 
rot, one turnip and one stalli of celery cut in slices, 
and also added two bay leaves, one spVig of parsley 
and twelve whole cloves, and let it simmer one hour 
longer. We then strained the stock througii a line 
sieve and added to it one tablespoon level full of salt. 
We placed the stock where it would cool quickly, 
because if kept in a warm place for a few hour? it 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 17 

would not form a nice jelly. When it was cold we 
removed all the fat from the top and it was ready 
to use. 

Vegetable Soup without Meat. — The same day 
we made soup stock we also made a vegetable soup 
without meat. First we washed the vegetables 
with a brush about four inches long, something like 
a scrubbing brush. "We then peeled the vegetables 
and cut them in slices about three-sixteenths of an 
inch thick. You can cut them into dice-shaped 
pieces or else use fancy cutters and cut each vege- 
table into different shaped pieces. For this soup 
we used one carrot, one sweet potato, one turnip, one 
parsnip and one onion. We put one ounce Of butter 
into a frying pan and when hot we added the 
vegetables and fried them a light brown. Then we 
turned all into a soup kettle and added two quarts 
of cold water, one bay leaf, one sprig of parsley, one 
root of celery, one level teaspoonful of salt and two 
tablespoonfuls of rice. After it had boiled slowly 
for one hour and a quarter we added one white 
potato which had also been cut into fancy shaped 
pieces. We allowed it to boil lifteen minutes 
longer; then we mixed one-fourth of a teaspoonful 
of pepper with a level teaspoonful of salt and 
added it to the soup, and the soup was ready to be 
served. 

A Rib Eoast. — The next thing we did was to roast 
a rib of beef in the oven. First we looked after the 
oven to see that it was very hot. We wiped the 
meat carefully and then dredged it lightly with 
pepper and placed it rib-side down in a granite 
baking pan ; then we added one level teaspoonful 
of salt to a half-pint of boiling water and poured it 
in the pan. We placed it in the oven, which was 
ver}' hot, and basted it every ten minutes. As 
every oven has one part a little hotter than the 
other we turned the pan two or three times during 
the roasting, so that the meat would have a chance 
to roast evenly. It was roasted fifteen minutes to 



18 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

every pound. After placing the meat on a heated 
plate we poured all but two tablespoonfuls of the 
drippings from the pan. We then added two 
rounding tablespoonfuls of flour, which browned in 
the baking pan on the top of the stove while we 
rubbed it smooth. To this we added a pint of water, 
stirring continuously until it boiled. "We seasoned 
it with one level teaspoonful of salt and six dashes 
of pepper, and when we had strained it through a 
small sieve into a boat it was ready to serve. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

YiEGiNiA Keed. 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 19 



LETTEE III. 

November 6, 189-. 

My Deae Cousin Alethea: "We are now soraewliat 
accustomed to our studies and can accomplish, in the 
same length of time, much more than we did at first, 
and it seems more interesting. I hope you will have 
time to try the most of the different dislies we shall 
have, and if I do not explain everything satisfactorily, 
ask until I do. If I should not be able to answer your 
questions I shall try to find out, for I am here to learn. 

Ventilation was the topic for our last lecture, and in 
order that all might thoroughly understand the mean- 
ing of the symbols used, the professor explained that 
the atomic weight of the different ones were hydro- 
gen one, carbon twelve^ oxygen sixteen, nitrogen 
fourteen, sulphur thirty-two, and phosphorus thirty- 
one. In the example CO there are twelve parts of 
carbon and sixteen of oxygen, one part by weight of 
each, hence it is called a monoxid, and in CO2 there 
are two by weight of oxygen to the one of carbon, 
hence it is called a dioxid. Everv particle is arranged 
in connection with other particles. Now, the property 
gf heat is to expand these particles, which it does by 
pushing them away from each other. In a liquid the 
particles have been pushed so far apart that they can- 
not retain their position when removed from the 
vessel, they have so little attraction for each other. 
A cubic inch of water makes a cubic foot of steam. 
The particles in steam are so far apart that they have 
lost all attraction for each other, though each particle 
is as solid as ever and does not change. The particles 
of air always seek an equilibrium and the cold air be- 
ing heavier than the warm falls to the earth, and in so 
doing pushes the warm air up. 



20 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Our systems must get rid of all effete particles of 
waste. Our lungs always give out carbon dioxide and 
watery vapor. Our temperature, in a normal state, 
varies from ninety -eight to one hundred. To continue 
in this condition the air must be freed from carbon 
dioxide and a new supply of oxygen given us, but the 
way most buildings are constructed this is a difficult 
task, because the carbon dioxide being warm is lighter 
than the other part of the air, rises and in coming in 
contact with the cold walls or windows becomes 
chilled, and unless there is a force supplied to push 
it out of the window or up a shaft, it will fall 
and mingle with the air for us to take again into our 
lungs. 

Carbon dioxid when really cold is heavier than air, 
and if it were pure, or nearly so, it would not support 
life. A person after having been overcome by carbon 
dioxide can be brought back to life; indeed, the case 
would be very much like drowning. 

Carbon monoxid, however, works more slowly, and 
when a person has taken in such a quantity of it as to 
be overcome by it he cannot be restored to health, be- 
cause carbon monoxide is a poison and kills. No 
remedy is known that can remove it from the system. 
Carbon monoxide has nearly the same weight as air. 

The most perfect ventilation in a building is where 
one building is built within another. Houses now 
should be built with a forced draught, either supplied 
by a fan or ventilators extending above the roof. 

In an old-style house a pane of glass could be re- 
placed by a nickel or brass gauze and so improve the 
air in a room without the air blowing upon any one. 

We still have a few questions to answer each day. 
This is the list since I last wrote you : 

For cooking green vegetables would you use hard 
or soft water? For dry vegetables? For green 
vegetables use hard water, and for dry vegetables use 
soft water. 

If hard water was not at hand, how would you pro- 
ceed to make it — and soft ? To make water hard add 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. %\ 

salt in the proportion of one teaspoonful to every 
gallon of water. To make water soft add one-half 
■teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda to each gallon of 
water. 

For cooking meats would you use hard or soft 
water? Soft water. 

Can meat always be cooked in water? Yes, but it 
is not ahvays palatable. 

Is the temperature of boiling water ahvays the 
same ? If not, why ? No, because difference in alti- 
tude affects the temperature. 

What occurs in boiling ? "Water in boiling parts witl: 
the air which is found to be diffused through all 
natural waters. The air leaves the water in the burst- 
ing of the bubbles. 

Of what do these bubbles consist? Vaporized water 
or steam. 

Where are tiie bubbles formed ? Over the hottest 
part of the vessel. 

Do they rise to the top of the water ? Not at first. 

What becomes of them ? They are crushed and dis- 
appear in the water. 

What happens after the heat continues long enough 
for these bubbles to rise to the surface and escape into 
the air? The escaping of the bubbles into the air 
causes the agitation of the liquid called boihng or 
ebullition. 

What influence has the air pressure upon boiling? 
Why ? Difference in the pressure of the air makes a 
difference in the temperature at which water boils, be- 
cause, when the pressure is partially removed, as in 
ascending a high mountain, the water finds less resist- 
ance to rising into vapor, so it boils at a lower tem- 
perature. 

Does the weight of the liquid itself affect its boiling? 
Yes. 

Does salt water boil at a higher or lower tempera- 
ture? Salt water requires a higher temperature to 
bring it to boiling point because it is heavier than clear 
water. 



22 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKTNO SCHOOL. 

Is water boiling violently hotter than water which 
boils moderately ? No. 

Does water boil if dropped on a highly heated 
metallic surface ? Why? Give an example. Water 
in contact with highly heated metallic surfaces does 
not boil or vaporize. The reason why a globule darts 
about on a hot stove and does not evaporate is, that a 
stratum of steam is formed under it, which props it 
up, so that it is not really in contact with the iron ; 
and steam, being a non-conductor, cuts off the heat. 
Water enters upon the spheroidal state between 288° 
and 340° of the hot surface ; but when the temperature 
falls the steam no longer sustains the drop : it is brought 
in contact with the iron and i^ at once exploded into 
vapor. This principle is used in testing ilatirons in 
laundry work. 

Does milk or water boil (bubble) in a double boiler ? 
Youman says it can attain the boiling point. The 
inner vessel must be very thin or it cannot transmit 
heat enough to reach that point unless the water in the 
outer vessel is made dense by the addition of salt. As 
double boilers are usually made and used, neither milk 
nor water boils in them. 

What is the difference between boiling and baking? 
Boiling is cooking in moist heat, the article being sur- 
rounded by water, which softens certain parts and 
extracts others. Baking is cooking the outer portion 
by dry heat while the inner portion is cooked by moist 
heat.. 

Are things more wholesome boiled or baked ? 
Boiled, because boiling softens the texture. 

How is starch affected by boiling ? Boiling causes 
the starch grains to swell to many times their original 
size and burst the membrane which encloses them. 
The starch then forms a gelatinous paste which appears 
clear. 

What would you do with tough meat ? Boil or stew 
it, if a large piece. If steak, brush it over with oil and 
vinegar in the proportion of two of oil to one of 
vinegar and let it stand some time before cooking it. 



TEE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCnOOL. 23 

Give the chemical composition of meat. Water, 
albumin, fibrin, gelatin, salts, fats and osmazone. 

How is it affected by boiling? The fibrin is hard- 
ened, the albumin is coagulated, the gelatin is dissolved, 
most of the mineral matter is drawn out and falls to 
the bottom of the vessel, part of the fat is melted and 
some of it changed to fatty acid. Osmazone is part of 
the mineral matter and is that which gives odor and 
flavor to meats and gravies. 

What is the difference between boiling and simmer- 
ing ? Water in boiling reaches the temperature of 
212° while in simmering it only reaches 180°. 

Can meat be thoroughly cooked at a temperature 
below the boiling-point? Yes. 

Give the proper method for cooking meat in water. 
Pour boiling water over the meat and stand it where 
it will simmer forty -five minutes for each pound. Add 
the salt when the meat is half done. 

What is the simmering point. One hundred and 
eighty degrees. 

What is the difference between baking and roasting? 
Baking is done in an enclosed air while roasting is doiie 
in a current of air. 

Give the best method of baking meat. Place the 
meat in a baking pan, dredge lightly with pepper. 
Add one teaspoonful of salt to one cupful of boiling 
water and pour it into the pan. Place in an oven 
heated to about 400° and baste every ten minutes, 
baking it fifteen minutes to the pound. _ 

Describe the oven dampers and their proper positions 
while baking. The oven dampers are closed because 
the heat should go around the oven before ascending 
the chimney. 

W hich is more highly flavored, roasted or baked 
meat ? Why ? Koasted meat, because the oxygen of 
the air imparts an additional flavor. 

With what should meat be basted ? Its own fat. 

To Beoil Steak.— In preparing to broil steak on a 
range see that the direct draft is open and that the 



24 THE WAT WE! DID AT COOEiNQ SCHOOL. 

fire is clear and free from gas. Put a good meat plate 
on the warming shelf and also a granite plate. Having 
greased the broiler, put it to heat. Free the steak 
from suet and place it in the warm broiler and put the 
broiler over the fire. Count twenty and turn the 
other side to the fire, and continue to count and turn. 
It will take eight minutes to broil a thick steak if 
wished well done, or five minutes if rare. When done, 
turn the top of the broiler back underneath the lower 
side. Place the granite plate over the meat and turn 
the broiler, steak and plate over at the same time. In 
this wa3' the steak will be placed on the plate without 
losing any of the juices. Season with salt and pepper; 
turn, the steak and season the other side. Place the 
steak now exactly v.-here wanted on the good meat 
plate and serve at once. 

Veal Cutlets. — In preparing veal cutlets we first 
covered them with boiling water, and after letting 
them stand about a minute we took them out of the 
water and wiped them dr\'. We cut them into pieces 
about two inches square. We broke an egg in a soup 
plate and added one tablespoonful of hot water to it. 
The water keeps the egg from becoming too light 
while thoroughly mixing the white with the yolk by 
beating, and it also makes the crust more tender. 
After placing the veal in the egg we, with a spoon, 
poured the egg over every part not already covered 
by the egg. We carefully drained the veal and laid it 
on a bed of grated bread crumbs and piled crumbs all 
over it. After pressing the crumbs down hard, we 
took up the veal, shook it lightly and placed it on 
a granite plate. We put two tablespoon fuls of drip- 
pings into a frying pan, an^ when it was hot we put in 
the breaded veal cutlets ; when one side was a nice 
brown we turned it over, and when that side was 
browned it was ready to be dished and served with 
tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. — For the tomato sauce we put a pint 
of stewed tomatoes into a small stewpan and added 
one onion cut in slices, one bay leaf, a blade of mace, 



TBB WAT WE DID AT COOKIJVG SCHOOL, 25 

and a sprig of parsley, and let it simmer for ten min- 
utes. We melted one ounce of butter in another 
saucepan and mixed with it one rounding tablespoonful 
of flour. We mixed the butter iuid fiour together 
until smooth. "We pressed the tomatoes tlirougli a 
sieve and added them to the butter and flour, stirring 
continuously until it boiled. "We then added salt and 
pepper to taste, and it was ready to serve. 

Beef Stew with Dumplings. — In making a stew 
from beef we used two pounds of lean beef, which we 
cut into pieces about one inch square and dredged it 
thickly with flour. Having put two tablespoonfuls of 
butter or drippings into a frying pan over a gocd Are, 
as soon as it was very hot we added the meat. 
"We kept turning the meat, and as soon as it was nicely 
browned we turned it into a saucepan. "We added one 
tablespoonful of flour to the butter remaining in the 
frying pan, and when well mixed we added one quart 
of boiling water. "We stirred until it boiled ; tiien we 
poured it through a sieve into the saucepan containing 
the meat. We added one sprig of parsley and a small 
onion, and having placed a lid on the saucepan, we let 
its contents simmer for two hours. When the meat 
bad cooked one hour we added one teaspoonful of salt 
and three dashes of pepper. In making the dumplings 
we sifted one pint of flour and add«d to it one heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder and sifted it again. We 
added one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt and about 
one-fourth of a pint of sweet milk, only enough to 
make a soft dough. We stirred the dough with a 
wooden spoon and dipped the dough by small spoon- 
fuls, placing it over the meat. We covered the sauce- 
pan and left it to simrner for about twenty minutes. 
"We were very careful not to uncover the pan while the 
dumplings were cooking, for fear ihey would fall ; and 
as there is danger of the stew scorching after the 
dumplings are added, we moved the pan to a moderate 
part of the fire. As soon as the dumplings were done 
they were served with the meat on a warmed platter. 



26 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. — First we wiped the mut- 
ton with a dampened towel, and then dredged it 
thickly with flour and wrapped it carefully with a 
piece of cheese cloth. We placed the leg of mutton 
in a kettle and covered it with boiling water, and after 
it had boiled five minutes we placed it wiiere it would 
simmer gently fifteen minutes for each pound. When 
the mutton was half done we added a teaspoonful of 
salt. We carefully removed the clolh wiien the mut- 
ton was done, and trimmed the bone with a quill and 
garnished the dish with parsley. You can make the 
quill or buy it. We made the one used. ,Tiike half a 
sheet of note or letter paper and fold it through tlie 
middle lengthwise. Cut across the fold half way 
through the paper. It will look something like a 
fringe. Unfold the paper and fold the other side out, 
and the cut part will puff out. Wind the smooth, un- 
cut part around the bone and the cut part will stand 

out like a flower and con- r . 

ceal the end of the bone. /////;//,,,,,,,,,,J 
The liquid in which tiie ^U.U.lRUim 
mutton was boiled can be used for stock. 

Caper Sauce. — We made caper sauce to serve with 
the leg of mutton, and the way in which we did it was 
to melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan and mix 
with it two. rounding tablespoonfuls of flour. When 
mixed smooth we added. one pint of boiling water, stir- 
ring all the time. We took it from the fire after it had 
boiled a minute and added a half teaspoonful of salt, 
and a dash of white pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of 
capers. We poured it into a boat and it was ready to 
be served. 

Pressed Meat. — We ground one quart of pieces of 
cold cooked meat in a Perfection cutter, and then 
added to the meat one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful of allspice, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of mace, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, and one-fourth teaspoonful of black pepper. 
All the spicos were m powdered form. Havmg dis- 
solved one tabiespoonful of gelatin in a fourth of a 



TBE WAT WB DID AT COOKINQ SCBOOL. %^ 

cup of cold water, we added to it one-half pint of boil- 
ing stock and mixed all the ingredients together and 
pressed it into a square mould. We stood the mould 
in a cold place to cool. When wanted for use we 
turned it from the mould and cut it in slices. It 
looked very appetizing garnished with parsley or 
cress. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

Virginia Eeed. 



28" TEE WAT WE PlD .1 T COOKINQ SCHOOL. 



LETTER IV. 

November 16, 189-. 
My Deak Cousin Alethea : Our last lecture was a 
continuation of the one on Ventilation. The professor 
explained the workings of an S sewer pipe, showing 
that the way in which they are often used the water 
held in the bend is very little protection against the 
admission of sewer air into our dwellings, because the 
water in rushing through the pipe often leaves so 
small an amount of water in the seal or bend that the 
air from the sewer can easily force its way through it, 
and if the pipes were allowed to stand for a few weeks 
in that condition the water would evaporate so there 
would be nothing to hinder the sewer air from enter- 
ing the room. Indeed all S sewer pipes should have a 
ventilating tube connected with a chimney. A better 
plan still is to have the tubing arranged with a 
Jj; bail that would act as a valve and close the 
L°J tube whenever the air would try to force its 
way up the tube. 
In correct plumbing there should be an overflow 
pipe to carry the extra water from the reservoir to tlie 
roof or down to the sink, in either case warning you 
of the quantity of water held. Under no consideration 
should the overflow pipe be allowed to connect with 
the ventilator of the sewer, or with the sewer pipe 
itself, for in either case the water would become 
polluted. 

People seem to be too much afraid of sewer air. 
There really is no such thing as sewer gas. Sewer air 
consists of carbon dioxid and common air, with a little 
less oxygen and a small amount of gas arising from 
decomposing substances, which gives it its disagreeable 



THE WA T Wm DID A T COOKISQ SCHOOL. 29 

odor. Illuminating jras often creeps into the sewer 
and increases the disagreeableness of the odor. It is 
the igniting of the illuminating gas which causes tlie 
explosions we read about and wliich are always at- 
tributed'to sewer gas. 

Of course sewer air is not wholesome, but it is prob- 
bable that it does not carry a large amount of gctins. 
It, however, sickens and weakens those who inhale it 
and in tliat way makes them less able to resist disease 
when exposed to it. It is probable that ventilated 
sewers do not have air so contaminated with bacteria 
as the air in our living rooms. The air about the 
storm openings of sewers may contain more germs in 
it than the other. 

Emanations from lamps and persons, as usually 
mingled with good air, are not causes of harm unless 
one of the persons is diseased. 

In consumption the coughing does not hurt the air 
for others unless the expectoration contains lung 
particles, which must dry and be inhaled by others 
before they could be injured by it. Air that has been 
exhaled," though not wholesome, does not convey 
actual disease germs. Cats and dogs may be more 
likely to be the convej'ers of disease germs than the 
air we breathe. 

We have had a few more new questions. 

Give the proper method of roasting and broiling 
meats, and the difference. Broiling is tlie term applied 
-to cooking a thin piece with one side to the fire and 
the other in a current of air. Eoasting is the term 
applied to cooking a large thick piece of meat before 
an open fire, with the fire on one side and a current of 
air on the otiier. In either case the meat is turned 
from time to time. Sometimes, however, roasting is 
applied to meat tiiat is baked or cooked in an oven 
with a gauze door. Fish, birds and chickens are 
broiled with the bone side next to the fire, and are not 
turned until done, when the skin side is turned to the 
fire long enough for the skin to brown nicely. It 
takes from one half to three-quarters of an hour for a 



so TBB WAT WS nit) AT COOKtNa SCHOOL. 

chicken to broil. Roasting requires from fifteen to 
twenty minutes to the pountl, wliile white meats re- 
quire nearly thirty minutes to the pound. 

Give the proper method of roasting and baking 
poultry and game. After drawing and trussing the 
fowl, place it in a baking pan and add half a cup of 
' Welter and a teaspoonful of salt. If you did not lard 
tlie fowl place two thin slices of bacon on its breast 
and place it in the oven, basting it every ten minutes, 
first with butter and then with its own drippings. 
Dark meat requires a quick oven and white meat a 
slow oven. Young and white meats require to be 
well cooked. 

What is the proper temperature for roasting or 
baking ? Four hundred degrees Fahrenheit to start on, 
and then lowered to about two hundred and sixty. 

Should the temperature be stationary throughout 
the entire cooking ; if so, wliy ? No ; it should not be 
the same, because if continued at 400° the outside 
would be charred before the center would have time 
to be sufficiently cooked. 

What is braising ? Describe the proper method. 
Braising is cooking meat in a closed vessel, the meat 
being placed on or over a bed of vegetables. 

What kinds of meats are better braised ? Inferior 
or tough portions. 

What is frying? Frying is cooking by immersion 
in heated oil. 

What is the proper temperature for frying? When' 
the oil gives off a vapor not a smoke, test by a piece of 
bread ; if it brownn quickly it is right. It should be 
from 300'' to 320° for doughnuts, crullers and fritters, 
and about 385° for fish, potatoes, croquettes and 
rissoles. 

Are fried articles wholesome? Why not? The in- 
side is wholesome but the outside is not, because the fat 
in being heated so hot partly decomposes, forming an 
irritating acid. 

What material is best and most wholesome for fry- 
ing purposes ? A vegetable oil, the oil from the olive 
being the best of all. 



TEE WAY WK DIB AT COOKING SCHOOL. 31 

Which heats more quickly, vegetable or animal oil ? 
Vegetable oil, after we liave excepted butter. Butter 
heats most quickly of all known fats. 

Give the method for frying in vegetable oil. In 
animal oil. The method is the same. See that the oil 
is at the proper temperature. Place the article to be 
fried in a frying basket and place the basket on a 
granite plate to carry or hold. Place the basket and 
contents in the heated oil and let it remain there until 
the article is the desired shade of brown. Lift tlie 
basket out and place it on the granite plate, and then 
remove the article, placing it on a brown paper on 
another plate. 

Do you fry in boiling fat? No ; fat boils at a tem- 
perature of 500°. 

What do fats contain when bubbles appear on the 
surface during the heating process ? Water. 

What causes the spattering and boiling as articles 
are immersed ? Moisture in the articles themselves. 

Must we have separate supplies of fat to fry fish, 
croquettes, etc.? No. Fat does not absorb the odor 
from an article being fried unless the fat was not hot 
enough when the article was put in it, then the article 
would absorb some of the fat and the remainder of the 
fat would absorb odor from the article being fried. 

What utensils are necessary for frying? A deep 
vessel to contain the oil to be heated, a wire basket or 
fork to lift out articles, a granite plate to put under 
them, and a paper on another plate upon which to 
place the articles when removed from the basket or 
fork. 

What is cooking in a small quantity of fat called? 
Sauteing. 

Which is more palatable or wholesome, this or fry- 
ing ? Frying is more wholesome but not always more 
palatable. 

How do you clarify fat? Place the pieces of fat in 
a granite saucepan and keep it over a moderate fire 
until the fat is all melted, then pour it through a sieve 
into a clean pan and add a pint of boiling water to 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

1 three pounds of fat, and also add one-fourth of a 
poonful of baking soda. Boil until the fat is clear 
the water has evaporated. Skim and strain, and 
ready for use. 

/^hat precautions should be taken while frying in 
Not to spill or splash the fat upon the stove and 
have the fat deep enough to cover the article well. 
\ a small quantity of fat is spilled and takes fire, 
it is the best way of removing it? Smother the 
with salt, ashes or flour, then lift- it off with a 
'e or shovel. 

^'hat sort of fat is best for frying doughnuts and 
;ers? Why? Vegetable oil "to which some mut- 
suet has been added. The animal oil heats and 
■s more slowly than the vegetable oil, therefore, it 
lid form a crust more quickly and allow less oil to 
ibsorbed by the dough. 
/ hat is the most economical way of cooking meat ? 

y which process is the greatest loss in weight? 
y ? By roasting. In roasting, the meat loses a 
: of its natural water by evaporation, and a part of 
'at by melting. 

[ow great is that loss? One pound and five ounces 
, four-pound roast of beef, and one pound six ounces 
, four-pound roast of mutton. The same amount 
aeef would lose one pound and three ounces by 
ing or one pound by boiling, while the same 
)unt of mutton would lose one pound and four 
ces by baking or fourteen ounces by boiling. 

dare say you are familiar with many of these 
pes, but if 1 should leave out some, thinking you 
w them, I might happen to leave out the very ones 

would like to know about, so I shall write out 
I'y one. 

juicK Biscuits. — In making biscuits we measured 

quart of flour that had been sifted and added to it 

1 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 

3d them together with • one level teaspoonf ul of 



THE WAT WE DID AT OOOEINQ SCHOOL. 33 

salt. "We then rubbed in one ounce of butter. Hav- 
ing seen that the oven was hot enough (at about 400° 
Fahr.) we brushed the pan with oil and then added a 
half pint of milk to the flour and kneaded it up 
quickly. We rolled the dough an inch in thickness, 
and with a cutter about the size of a silver half dollar 
we cut them out and put them in the pan and the pan 
in the oven. Always work as rapidly as possible when 
using.baking powder so as not to lose any of its good 
effects. We could have used one level teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar and one-half teaspoonful of soda if we 
had wished. In either case sweet milk must be used. 
We baked the biscuits twenty minutes. 

To Corn Beef. — In corning beef we heated a pan- 
ful of salt, and having wiped the meat carefully we 
rubbed in all the hot salt we could, and when it would 
imbibe no more we placed the meat in a deep crock or 
jar and took it down cellar wheVe it would keep cool. 
We turned the meat over every day for a week. This 
rule is for corning a small quantitj^, such as would be 
used soon. 

Breakfast Bacon. — In preparing breakfast bacon 
we cut the bacon almost as thin as possible and put 
the slices in a frj'ing pan that had not been heated, so 
that the bacon might heat gradually. We fried it 
until brown and crisp. It should be served as a gar- 
nish to a dish of fried potatoes. 

Plain Hash. — In making plain hash we run one 
pint of pieces of cold cooked meat through the Per- 
fection cutter. We blanched the kernels of eight al- 
monds by pouring boiling water on them and letting 
them stand until the skin slipped off easil}', and then 
we chopped them very fine. We placed two ounces 
of butter in a frying pan and sliced into it one-half of a 
small onion and fried it a nice brown. We then added 
two ounces of bread and one cup of milk. We took 
it from the fire, and when it had stood ten minutes we 
added the almonds, meat, one teaspoonful of curry 
powder, one teaspoonful of salt, and the beaten yolks 



34 TEE WAT WE DID AT COOETNO SCHOOL. 

of three eggs, and mixed all well together in the 

A frying pan on the stove. After it was well 
heated through, it was served garnished with 
triangles of toasted bread. 
Browned Flour. We browned some flour so we 
could have it to use in gravies or sauces. We put the 
sifted flour in a baking pan and placed the pan in tlie 
oven. We stirred the flour occasionally with a wooden 
spoon and took it out while it was. a golden brown ; 
that is, before it was as dark asciunamon brown. Wo 
had stirred it often enough to keep it an even color. 

CoEN Gems. — In making corn gems we put two cup- 
fuls of ^.ellow corn meal in a mixing bowl, and in the 
center we placed two ounces of butter, and over both 
we poured one cup of boiling milk. We stirred it 
well and then added one cup of cold milk and one- 
fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, three eggs well beaten, 
and one cup of flour. After mixing well we sifted 
over all two rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
beat the mixture thoroughly, and then poured it 
into well-oiled gem pans, and put them at once into 
the oven, which was hot. They were allowed to bake 
about thirty minutes. 

Yeast Beead. — In making bread we began as soon 
as school opened, by putting a pint of milk on to scald. 
When scalded we poured tlie milk into a mixing bowl 
and added one teaspoonful of salt. Salt is always 
measured by the level spoonful. We also added one 
rounding teaspoonful of butter and two teaspoonfuls 
of sugar. When the milk was lukewarm we added 
two cakes of compressed yeast, which we had dissolved 
in one-fourth of a cup of lukewarm water, and added 
flour enough to make a thick batter. We beat the 
batter till it was full of air bubbles. We filled the 
breadraiser one-third full of water as warm as we could 
keep our hands in, and then put the bowl of sponge in 
it, and put the cover on, and placed it where it would 
not cool quickly. The warmth and moisture makes the 
yeast grow, but if the water were too warm it would 
kill the yeast. If you do not have a bread raiser you 



THE WAT Wt! HID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 35 

can put the water in the dishpan and use the bread- 
board for a cover, if you have not a lid large enough. 
When the sponge had doubled its bulk we added flour 
enough to make a dough, and when stiff enough to 
take out on the breadboard we kneaded it quickly and 
gently until the dough would not stick to the board or 
our hands. It had become smooth and elastic, and 
seemed to form blisters on its surface as we kneaded 
it. AVe put it back into the bowl and the bowl into 
the bread raiser. When it had again doubled irs bulk 
we turned it out on the breadboard and divided it into 
loaves, and without adding any flour we gently 
moulded them into shape, put them into well- 
greased pans and placed them where they would keep 
warm until light. We baked small single loaves three- 
quarters of an hour. The bread should be in the oven 
ten minutes before it begins to brown. The oven was 
at about 360" when we put the bread in. When 
baked the whole outside of the loaf was brown. We 
at once removed it from the pan and stood it across the 
top of the pan, where the air could circulate around 
it. When cold, the bread was kept in a tin box with- 
out a wrapping of any kind. We had the bread baked 
in less than four hours from the time we started it. 
If you cannot get Fleischman's compressed yeast, use 
one-half cup of home-made jug yeast. Less yeast 
would have required more time. 

Mashed Potatoes. — In preparing potatoes to mash 
we peeled six good-sized potatoes and left them in 
cold water for one hour. We then put them into a 
kettle of soft boiling water and placed the kettle wiiere 
they would boil slowly. As soon as soft enough tOL 
admit a fork we poured the water off and dredgei'^ 
them with salt and shook them so that all would be'' 
exposed to the cold air. If we had wished to serve 
them boiled we would have covered them with a 
napkin and let them stand on the back part of the 
stove for live minutes, when they would have been 
readv, but as we wanted them mashed, wo mashed 
ihcui with a wire masher or fork until free from 



36 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 

lumps ; then we added a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, one-fourth of a cup of boiling cream, a dash 
of pepper, and if in dredging with salt we did not use 
a whole teaspoonful, we added the remainderof it and 
beat all of it with a fork until very light. They were 
served on a heated dish uncovered. 

Boiled Onions — In preparing onions for boiling we 
selected one dozen as near the same size as possible, 
and put them into cold water until we had removed 
the skins, then we dropped them into a saucepan of 
boiling water and added one teaspoonful of salt. 
Never forget to add the salt or the onions will be in- 
sipid. It takes about forty minutes for them to 
become tender. Of course it depends somewhat on 
the size of the onions. When we could pierce them 
easily with a fork, we drained them carefully, 
placed them on a heated dish, and poured cream sauce 
over them. 

Ceeam Sauce. — In making cream sauce we put one 
ounce of butter in a saucepan, and when it had melt- 
ed we added one rounding tablespoon ful of flour and 
mixed it smooth, then added one-half pint of milk, 
stirring all the time until it boiled. We then added 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, mixed with one fourth of 
a teaspoonful of pepper, an(i it was ready to be served. 
Cream sauce is always made in this proportion, and in 
taking half of a spoonful of anything we always 
divide it lengthwise of the spoon. 

Soft Gingeebeead — In making soft gingerbread we 
beat the yolks of tw^o eggs with four ounces of butter 
and then added one-half cup of milk. We put one 
teaspoonful of soda in one and one-half cups of New 
Orleans molasses and stirred it well, then poured it 
into the mixing bowl with the other ingredients and 
added one tablespoonful of ginger, and little by little 
we added three cups of flour, stirring it all thoroughly. 
We beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth 
and added them carefully, and, having brushed a 
granite baking pan with oil, we poured in the ginger 



THE WA 7 WE DID A T COOKINO SVEOOL. 37 

batter. We baked it three-quarters of an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — In preparing potatoes for stuff- 
ing we first washed and brusiied the potatoes with a 
small brush and tiien baked tliem in a quick oven for 
about thirty minutes, until they were soft when 
pinched. We took them out and with a sharp knife 
cut them through the middle lengthwise. We scooped 
them out with a spoon into a heated bowl, and after 
mashing them fine we added one ounce of butter, one- 
fourth of a cup of hot milk, one teaspoon ful of salt, 
and about one-eighth of a teaspoonful of pepper. 
After beating'the potatoes until very light, we stirred 
in very gently the well-beaten whites of two eggs 
and filled the skins with the mixture. We brushed 
the top with the yolk of the eggs and then browned 
them in the oven. For this dish we used six good*- 
sized potatoes. 

Corned Beef PIash. — In boiling beef that had been 
corned we first washed it well and then put it on in 
cold water, bringing it slowly to the simmering point. 
We allowed it to simmer thirty minutes to the pound. 
Had we wished to serve it hot with vegetables, we 
would have allowed one hour and a half for cabbage 
to cook, one hour for turnips, and twenty minutes for 
potatoes. We, however, wanted it for hash, so we al- 
lowed it to cool in the liquor in which it had boiled. 
When cold we put a pint of pieces through the meat 
chopper and mixed a pint of cold boiled potatoes, 
which had been chopped fine, with it, and turned them 
into a frying pan and added one cup of stock (water 
could have been used), and then added one ounce of 
butter, one teaspoonful of onion juice and three dashes 
of pepper. We stirred continuously until it boiled. 
It was served on buttered toast. 

In all of our cooking we use a wooden spoon or 
spatula for stirring. 

Stewed Tttknips. — In preparing turnips for stewing 
we scrubbed and pared six small turnips, cut them 
into dice, and then put them into a saucepan of boil- 



38 THE WA Y WE DID A T COOKING SCHOOL. 

ing water. We let tliem boil tln'rt}'^ minutes, and 
when they were almost clone we made a cream sauce, 
which we kept warin by standing it over the tea- 
kettle while ue di-ained the turnips in a colander and 
tjien put them in a iieated disli. We poured the cream 
sauce over them and tliey were ready to be served. 

Stewed Pkunks.— In preparin,<r prunes for stevvinq; 
we washed them through several col-J waters and then 
turned them into a granite or pcMcelain-lined ketlie, 
and covering them witii cold water let tiieni soak 
until next morning, when we placed t.iie kettle con- 
taining the prunes, and the water in which they had 
soaked, on the stove where they would simmer gently 
until tender. We sweetened them to taste when we 
flrst put them on the stove. When tender we care- 
fully lifted out the prunes and left the syrup to 
boil rapidly for ten minutes. We poured the syrup 
over the prunes and stood them away to cool. 

We stew dried peaciies in the same way. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViEGiNiA Eeed. 



TEE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 



39 



LETTER V. 

ISTovember 20, 189- 

Mt Dear Cousin Alethea: Upon the walls of our 
schoolroom hang four charts which we have been hav- 
ing to study. They are marked the way in which the 
butchers here cut up these animals. We have had to 
learn the name and location of all the different pieces, 
and also to tell the best way of preparing or using the 
different pieces. You will find by studying the out- 
lines I enclose that it was no easy task. 

Our questions have also been on the same subjects, 
as you will perceive. 

What is beef ? Mutton 2 Veal ? Pork ? Beef is the 
flesh of animals of the genus Bos. Mutton is the 
flesh of the sheep, a small ruminant quadruped of the 
genus Ovis. Veal is the flesh of young animals of the 
genus Bos. Pork is the flesh of the hog, a domesti-' 
cated animal of the genus Sus. 

Tell how beef is divided. Beef is divided into fore 
and hind quarters. The fore quarter is divided into 
ribs, shoulder, bolar, plate, brisket, shin, neck and 
sticking piece. The hind quarter is dividetl into leg, 
loin, flank, pin bone, rump, round and veiny piece. 

What constitutes good beef ? The meat should be 
fine grained, in color a clear red, with a yellowish- 
white firm fat. 

What pieces are best for roasting or baking ? Broil- 
ing? Stewing? Frying? Pin bone, ribs and sirloin are 
the best for roasting. For broiling the fillet, sirloin 
and rump steaks are best. Shoulder, round, brisket, 
neck and all inferior pieces are best stewed. For fry- 
ing, which here means sauleing, any of the steaks may 
be used. 



40 



THE WAT WE DID AT VOOEINQ SCHOOL. 



^■^ \\ \ ^^ ^ • \ / \ N 



M 



1. Head used for mincemeat. 

2. Sticking piece used in mincemeat, stews or for tea. 

3. Neck used for stews. 

4. Second and third chuclc used for baking or roasting. 

5. First cliuclc used for second quality of steaks and roasts. 

6. First cut standing ribs used for roasting. 

7. Middle cut of standing ribs used for roasting. 

8. Back ribs used for roasting. 

9. Plate used for stews or corning. 

10. Brisket used for stews, pot roast or corning. 

11. Butt end of brisket used for cor,ping. 

13. Bolar used for pot roast, stews, mincemeat and liasbes. 

13. Bony end of shoulder used for stock, mincemeat and sausages. 

14. Shin used for soups and stewing. 

15. Loin used for roasting, boiling. 

16. Flank skirt used for stews, braising. 

17. Rump used for l)oiling, steaks. 

18. Veiny piece used for corning and drying. 

19. Round prime boiling piece though also used for steak, pot 
roast and stews and beef tea. 

20. Leg used for soup and stewing. 

21. Tail used for soup. 

22. Pin bone, prime roast. 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING 80H00L. 41 




1. Head used for liaggis. 

2. Neck used in broth and stews. 

3. Shoulder used for boiling or roasting. 

4. Rack used for French chops for broiling. . 

5. Breast u.sed for stews and roasting with stuflBng. 

6. Loin, best end used for roasts and chops. 

7. Loin, bone end used for roasts and chops. 

8. Leg used for roasts or boiling. 

9. Flank used for stews. 

10. Feet sometimes called trotters. 



43 



THE WAT WE DID AT GOOKING SCHOOL. 




10 
11 



Head. Head with skin on used in mock-turtle soup. 

Neck used in stews. 

Sticklng-piece end of breast used in stews and potpies. 

Shoulder used for roasts. 

Back used for cutlets or choice stews. 

Breast used for roasting and stuffing. 

Loin, best end used in roasts or as broiled in cbops. 

Loin, bone used for chops and roasts. 

Flank used in stews. 

(lutlets and fillet good in a roast or broiled. 

Knuckle used for soup or stews. 



12, 13. Feet used for jelly. 



TEE WAT WB DID AT UOOKIJ^G SUHOOL. 43 



1. Head used in head cheese. 

2. Neck used for mince-meat, stews or sausage. 

3. Shoulder used for roasts and smolced for broiling. 

4. Loin, rib-end used for roasting or chops. 

5. Ijoin, best end used for roasts, chops or baited dishe.« 

6. Breast used for piclfling in salt and smoked bacon. 

7. Flank used for larding or bacon. 

8. Ham used for boiling or panning. 

9. Ham, butt end. 

10. Ham, hock end. 

11, 13. Feet used for souse and jelly. 

4, 5, 6 and 7 form together a flitch of bacon. 

Trimmings of fat are made into lard while those of lean are made 
into sausage. 



44 TEE WAT WE DTD AT COOK/NO SGBOOL. 

What piece would you select for mince-meat? Soup ? 
Beef tea? For mince-meat use sticking piece. For 
soup use shin and leg. For beef tea use sticiiing piece 
or under part of the round. 

Tell how mutton and lamb are divided. Head, 
neck, shoulder, rack, breast, loin best end, loin bone 
end, leg, flank, and feet or trotters. The two pieces 
left together of the bone end of the loin make the 
saddle. 

What constitutes good mutton or lamb ? The flesh 
should be a bright red color, the fat firm and white. 

What pieces are best for roasting or baking ? Broil- 
ing ? Stewing ? Frying ? For roasting use the leg, 
shoulder, and loin or saddle. For broiling use loin or 
rack and ribs or French chops. For stewing use the 
breast, neck, and flank. We do not fry any part, but 
we saute loin chops. 

What piece would you use for mutton broth ? Tlie 
neck. 

Tell how veal is divided and what constitutes good 
veal. Veal is divided into fore and hind quarters. 
The fore quarter is divided into loin, breast, shoulder 
and neck, The hind quarter is divided into leg and 
loin. Thei flesh should be firm and pinkish-tinged and 
the bones hard. 

What pieces are best for roasting or baking? Stew- 
ing ? Frying? Loin, shoulder, fillet, and breast are 
best for roasting. Knuckle and neck are best lor 
stewing. Chops cut from the loin and cutlets cut from 
the leg are best for frying— saut6ing we should sav, to 
be exact. 

Tel! how pork is divided and what constitutes good 
pork. Pork is divided into leg, loin, chine, spareribs, 
middlings, heail and feet. The lean meat must be tine- 
grained and of a pale-red color, the fat white, and the 
skin smooth and clear. 

What pieces are best for roasting or baking ? Fry- 
ing? Loin, leg and chine are best for roasting. The 
shoulder, ham and flitch are best for panning. We 
do not fry or saut6 any of it. 



THE WAT -WE DID AT COOKTNQ SCHOOL. 45 

What parts would be used for sausage ? Lard ? 
Bacon? Larding pork? Flitch? Scrapple or pud- 
dings ? For sausage use all scraps of loan. For lard 
use the fat from around the kidney and trimmings of 
fat taken from any of the other parts. Bacon is made 
from the loin, breast and flank. Larding pork is 
taken from the flank. Flitch is the whole side of 
bacon — the loin, breast and flank. Scrapple or pudding 
is made from the head, heart, liver and feet, .chopped 
fine and thickened with coriv meal. 

What is souse? Souse is meat steeped in pickle. It 
is usually made from the feet of pigs. 

What internal organs of animals are used for food ? 
Heart, liver, kidneys, sweatbreads, or thymus gland, 
and pancreas, brains and stomach. 

Describe each and tell from what part of the animal 
it is taken. The heart is amodilied ovoid in form and 
is located between the shoulders. The liver is lobed- 
shaped, and is in hind quarters near the kidneys. The 
kidneys are nearly elliptical in form and are located 
in the loins just back of the ribs. The thymus gland 
is a long, narrow gland lying parallel with the wind- 
pipe. The pancreas is a gland nearly square in form 
and is located near the thymus gland and heart. Tiie 
brains are in the upper part of the head. The stomach 
is in the hind quarters near the liver. 

Give the proper raetliods of cooking each. The 
heart can be baked, stewed, or spiced. The liver can 
be braised, broiled or stewed. The kidneys can be 
sautM or stewed. The sweetbreads can be baked, 
made into croquettes, or broiled. Brains are fried. 
The prepared stomach or tripe can be stewed, broiled, 
fried or soused. Liver and kidneys are not considered 
wholesome. 

What is tripe ? What is said of its digestibility ? 
Tripe is the first of the four stomachs of ruminating 
animals. It is easily digested and very nutritious. 
' Which is more easily digested, beef or mutton ? 
Why ? Mutton, because its texture is not so compact 
as in beef, and there is less fat among its libers. 



46 THE WA 7 WE DID A T COOKING SCHOOL. 

Which is the more nutritious? Why? Beef, be- 
cause its fibers are denser and the juices are more 
stimulating. 

What is said of the digestibility of pork and veal ? 
They are difficult to digest. 

What is fibrin ? Fibrin is that property in animal 
blood and the juices of plants whicli spontaneously co- 
agulates when they are kept still a short time. Fibrin 
is composed of the same elements as albumin, but con- 
tains a larger amount of sulphur and phosphates, and 
a still larger quantity of oxygen. 

What is the difference between the juices and blood 
of meat ? The 'uices of flesh are acid, but the blood 
is alkali. 

What is the difference between suet and fat? Suet' 
is the name given to that part of fat which is found 
inside the loin around the kidneys, and contains more 
stearin than is found in the fat taken from other parts 
of the animal. 

What is the thickening principle of soup? Gelatin. 

What is gelatin ? Gelatin is a nitrogenous principle 
obtained from bones, ligaments, tendons, skin and 
membranes of animals, and contains carbon, hydro- 
gen, oxygen, nitrogen, and a small amount of sulphur. 
It is not nutritive, and when taken in excess clogs the 
system. 

Why does veal or lamb broth coagulate sooner in 
cooling than that of beef or mutton ? On account of 
the greater quantity of gelatin which they contain. 

Would you use hot or cold water in making soup ? 
Why ? Cold water, because it draws out all the nour- 
ishing properties from the meat. 

When should salt be added to meat in cooking? 
Why ? When the meat is half done, because by that 
time the surface of the meat has had the pores sealed 
and there is no danger of drawing out t.lie juices or 
toughening the fiber. 

What gives odor and flavor to meats ? Osmazome. 

To what class of foods do meats belong ? All belong 
to the nitrogenous class, excepting pork, bear and 
opossum, which belong to the carbonaceous class. 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SGIIOOL. 47 

Wliat is said of the digestibility of warmed-over 
meats? Tliej are not so digestible as freshly cooked 
meats. 

AVhicii is the most wholesome way of serving them ? 
Sliced cold and served with a warm sauce. 

Are the heads of animals ever used for food ? Yes ; 
the heads of all animals except the deer are used. 
Sheep's head is considered a delicacy in Scotland. 

What is haggis? Haggis is made from the hend 
and internal organs of sbeep chopped fine and highly 
seasoned, then mixed with oatmeal and put in a 
bladder or maw and boiled. 

What is corn beef ? What is dried beef ? Give the 
best methods of cooking. Corn beef is beef that has 
been salted and laid in a brine. Dried beef is beef 
that has been salted, dried in the air and subjected to 
smoke. Corn beef is best boiled or pressed. Dried 
beef is best in a fricassee or frizzled. 

The professor's last lecture was about microbes and 
to me was very interesting. 

Something has been known about microbes for more 
than two hundred years, because in 1680 a Dutchman 
named Leuwenhoeck figured some that developed in 
the mouth. 

Pasteur has done a great deal to increase this 
knowledge. He ])ointed out the direct connection in 
the formation of yeast. Liebig, another great student 
of this subject, was opposed to the theories of Pasteur 
and has since been proved t(j be wrong. Tioch is 
another modern thinker 'who has added to our knowl- 
edge. 

It has-been usual to divide microbes into four 
divisions based upon the form, as follows: The 

0t^ ___ V^ %o 

Bacteria, the Bacilli, the Spirilla and the Micrococci. 
Thev are considered to belong to the vegetable king- 
dom', though many will doubtless prove to be on the 



48 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

border-line between that and the animal kingdom. 
They seem allied to the fungi and are analagous to 
the toadstools. They do not form green coloring 
matter in tlieir own bodies, and the most of them are 
colorless, therefore when put into aniline dyes they 
become so stained that you can see them more plainly 
under the microscope. The French incline to culti- 
vating them in broths, while the Germans use the 
solid culture media. 

Abbe aided the increase of knowledge in this 
dii'ection especially by the perfecting of the micro- 
scope. 

The professor explained one of the best ways of 
cultivating microbes. You form a composition of 
beef extract, glucose, peptone ami gelatin, having it 
the consistency of jelly. The composition is then 
sterilized by the fractional process, which is steaming 
it for twenty minutes on three successive days. When 
you wish to inoculate this substance with microbes 
you heat an iron wire red-hot, let it cool a little and 
lift out the microbe from wherever found and insert it 
into the above sterilized composition. Seal the vessel 
with cotton. 

Professor showed us some microbes of a red color 
on potato, that had been so kept for three months. 
He also showed us several other kinds and that which 
causes anthrax (the same malignant kind that makes 
carbuncles) under the microscope. They looked like 
hair. Most microbes require air to grow and are 
therefore called aerobic. Sofne grow away from the 
air, hence are called anaerobic, while some are so ac- 
commodating as to grow either way and are-said to be 
facultative. Symbiosis means joint life, as the mi- 
crobes on the pea roots. 

The microbes increase either by division 
or by spores. You can kill the C?*~-^q^ 

full-grown ^ (^ microbe by heat, 
but the %g'g ' or seed is very tenacious of 

life, and to kill them you must sterilize by the frac- 
tional process, Jn disinfecting we g,iiji tP kill the 
spores, 



THB WAY WJi DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 49 

Microbes are found in the air, water and soil, and 
are the cause of all rotting, for by this decomposition 
they complete the circle of nature. 

Milk may contain the germs of consumption, 
obtained either from the air or the earth, hence it 
should be Pasteurized at 165" Fahrenheit. Dogs are 
not susceptible to consumption, but cats and birds 
are. Cats have diphtheria and various sliin 
diseases. h'z'z. 

The microbes of typhoid grow by division, C \ <. 
with or without air, and are colorless. 
.y » I The spirilla of cholera are mostly aerobic 
' and are delicate. 

To ascertain whether there are any of the microbes 
of consumption present, one of the methods is to sub- 
ject them to dilute nitric acid after they have been 
stained with aniline dye. The microbe of con- 
sumption retains the aniline color while all others , 
lose it. The germ is a bacillus tuberculosis. ^^ 

Diphtheria looks like '^. -' or oo (^ 

I^ow, Cousin Alethea, 1 will write out a few recipes, 
as you Avili doubtless have time to try some before 
hearing from me again. 

Stewed Ceanbeeeies. — In preparing cranberries for 
stewing we looked them over and washed them well. 
"We put one quart of cranberries into a granite kettle 
and added one pint of water, and having covered the 
kettle, stewed them ten minutes. We then added one 
pound of sugar and put the kettle on the back of the 
stove where they could not boil. After fifteen min- 
utes we turned them into a dish and left them to cool 
before being served. 

Ettsks. — Tn making rusks we scalded one pint of 
milk in a farina boiler and added two ounces of butter 
and two eggs well beaten without being separated. 
Wben lukewarm we poured it into a large bowl and 



50 THE WAT WE DID AT COO KINO SCHOOL. 

added one cup of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt 
and one-half cup of yis. yeast, or two cakes of corn- 
pressed yeast, dissolved in one-fourth cup of lukewarm 
water, and flour enough to make a thin batter, which 
we beat continuously for five minutes. "We then 
placed the bowl in the bread raiser filled one-third full 
of warm -water, and having put on the cover left it to 
grow light, just as we did our bread sponge. When 
light we added flour enough to make a soft dough and 
kneaded it lightly on the bread-board for about ten 
minutes before putting in the bowl and placing tlio 
bowl back in the bread raiser to rise again. When 
light, we pinched off pieces of the dough about as 
large as a tablespoon rounding full, and formed it into 
balls, which we placed in a greased granite baking pan 
and set them where they would keep warm until 
light. We brushed the tops with milk, when light, 
and baked them in a.quick oven for twenty minutes. 
We might have brushed the tops with the white of 
egg, as it also causes the crust to brown nicely. 

Geafton Cake. — In making a loaf of Grafton cake 
■we beat the yolks of two eggs, one and one-half cup- 
fuls of sugar and two ounces of butter, until light. We 
tidded one cup of water and one and one- half cupfuls 
of flour, and beat it until smooth; after which we 
added the well-beaten whites of two eggs and one and 
one-half cupfuls of flour. When smooth we sifted over 
all one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder and 
one-fourth of a nutmeg grated. After mixing all well 
together we turned the mixture into a pan which was 
lined with well-oiled paper, and baked it for three- 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. The flour 
had been well sifted before measuring the three 
cupfuls. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

YiKGiNiA Eebd, 



THE WAY WM DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 51 



LETTER YI. 

November 24, 189- 
Mt Dear Cousim Alethba : They have been having 
a Food Exposition here in the city for the past week. 
We were presented with season tickets by our teacher, 
and requested to attend every afternoon. This Food 
Exposition reminds me very much of the second story 
part of the Agricultural feuilding at the Columbian 
Exposition. There are many compartments tastily 
arranged, each one making a display of some one cer- 
tain article which they either wisli you to taste or take 
a sample home with you ; or, at least, take a picture 
card on which are set forth the special merits of the 
article. If a person were to eat each article of food 
offered one would have a very fair meal. 

We of the Cooking School are becoming better ac- 
quainted with each other, and are having a very enjoy- 
able time together. We go around the exhibition hall 
once or twice a week, and attend every afternoon the 
lecture given on " Food " in the lecture hall. The topic 
for each lecture is different. 

Eemembering your fondness for Salads, I took notes 
on that lecture, which I will now write out. 

Turkey Salad in Aspic was the first salad prepared, 
in making the aspic, cover one tablespoonf ul of gelatin 
with, one-fourth of a cup of cold water. While the 
gelatin is dissolving put one slice of onion, one bay 
leaf, a piece of celery, together with one pint of cold 
water, in a saucepan and place it on the stove to boil. 
Add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, and while 
boiling-add one fourth of a teaspoonful of beef extract 
and ten drops of vegetable coloring, which must be 
stirred in carefully. Add one-half teaspoonful of salt. 



52 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Kemove from the stove and add the gelatin, most of 
whicli lias by this time dissolved ; stirgentl}' and then 
strain the liquid through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth into a mould. Stand it away to cool, but not to 
become hard or solid. Take the breast of a turkey 
that has been cooked and cut it into strips, cutting 
with the grain of the meat. Reject all gristle, fat and 
skin, and cut the strips into blocks about one-third of 
an inch square. To each quart of the meat allow two-, 
thirds of a quart of celery cut into pieces the same 
size as the meat. If the breast of the turkey is cooked 
expressly for this salad, season it with one teaspoonful 
of salt and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper. The 
turkey and the celery must be very cold before being 
added to the aspic. Put tire turkey in the mould 
while the aspic is 3'et a little wawu, and work the 
celery over the top. In the very center place the 
celery, covered with mayonnaise dressing. Stand 
away to harden. When wanted, turn the jelly out of 
the mould and garnish the edge of the dish with let- 
tuce leaves. 

Mayonnaise Deessing. — In making mayonnaise 
dressing it is best to have everything very cold. Place 
the yolks of two uncooked eggs in a soup plate and mix 
them well for a short time, then add one-fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of salt and stir well with a wooden fork, or 
if a wooden one is not at hand use a silver one. Add 
olive oil a drop at a time^ stirring all the time. As 
much as one pint of oil can be added to the yolks of 
two eggs. If the dressing seems too tliick add vine- 
gar, a few drops at a time. Two tablespoonfuls of 
tarragon vinegar would be the correct amount for one 
])int of oil. After one-half cup of oil has been added 
to the egg yolks, alternate the oil with the vinegar. 
This dressing to be right should not be so stiEf as jelly. 
It is a good plan to have the plate resting on a pan of 
ice during the making of the dressing. 

If the dressing should happen to curdle or separate, 
commence over with the yolk of one egg, and after it 
is well started witii some oil, add the above mixture a 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCUOOL. 53 

little at a time until it is all used, then add oil gradu- 
ally until the amount desired is obtained. A grain of 
red pepper is added. If the taste of the oil is dis- 
agreeable, it can be modified by adding whipped 
cream in the proportion of one-half pint of whipped 
cream to one pint of oil. Many persons use lemon 
juice instead of vinegar in making salad dressmgs. 

Swedish Salad. — In making Swedish salad, quarter 
four sardines and remove the slcin, bone, head and 
tail. Talie two good-sized boiled potatoes, and cut 
thein in slices three-sixteenths of an inch thick, then 
cut the slices into diamonds or fancy shapes, and also 
cut one small boiled beet into fancy shapes. Put dark 
lettuce leaves around the bowl, "with lighter leaves 
within. For the center use one-half cup of cold roast 
beef, veal, chicken, mutton, duck or sardines ; whicli- 
ever you choose cut into small blocks. The meat and 
potatoes are mixed together before putting them into 
the center, and over all sprinkle thirty drops of onion 
juice. Arrange the quarters of sardines among the 
lettuce leaves and decorate it all with the pieces of 
beet. Serve this salad with French dressing and then 
sprinkle over all one tablespoonful of finely chopped 
parsley. 

Feench Dressing. — The easiest way to make French 
dressing is to put six tablespoonfuls of olive oil and 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, into a 
jar and sliake it violently until the contents form an 
emulsion. Then pour it over the salad. 

Edssian Salad. — In making Russian salad form a 
bed of lettuce leaves and interline the edge with cress. 
Chop one boiled carrot, one raw onion and one fresh 
raw tomato, and place them in the center of the bed. 
Pour over it a French dressing made as for- Swedish 
salad. 

The rule is to serve mayonnaise dressing with 
chicken and fish, and French dressing with all vege- 
table salads. Chicken should always be cut, because 
chopping spoils its flavor. 



54 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKINQt SCHOOL. 

The best hospitals in the land give now, every day, 
a vegetable salad with oil dressing. The opium in the 
lettuce soothes, and the nitre acts on the kidneys. 
Green vegetables are far better than potatoes for 
waste. 

Rub the bowl and spoon with garlic for all salads in 
which you do not have onion, as it imparts a zest tliat 
nothing else will. All things containing sulphurizeil 
oil are healthful. 

Beets, turnips and onions can be cut in strips and 
crisped in cold water for garnishing. Preserved stalks 
of angelica also form a pretty garnish. 

It lias been most convenient for our teachers to iiave 
Invalid Cookery at school during the time of this Food 
Exposition, so we have not been given any questions 
to Ipok up. We, however, have had our lecture from 
the professor of chemistry, and for fear we did not re- 
member our ph3'siology, they have had a doctor bring 
charts and give us three lectures, wliich we will have 
to write up soon. We have also been making puif. 
paste. One of the exhibitors of flour at this Food 
Exposition wanted some puff paste for his display, and 
asked our teachers to have it made in the school, so 
each one of us has made some. 

Puff Paste.— The way we did was to scald a large 
bowl and turn that water ^ out and fill it with cold 
water. When the bowl was cold we turned that 
water out and refilleil it with ice water, with' a few 
small pieces of ice in it. We washed our hands in hot 
soapsuds, rinsed them with cokl water, and Without 
drying them we took one-half pound of butter and 
held it beneath the surface of the ice water while we 
washed and worked it until it was soft and elastic. 
We then patted it into a thin cake and put it on the 
ice in the refrigerator. We weighed out one-half 

Eound of pastry flour, which is obtained from the first 
olting of winter wheat. We put this flour on a large 
meat plate and made in the center a well, in which we 
placeii one half teaspoonfSl of salt, one-half teaspoon- 



TEE WAY WE BID At QOOKIN& SGBOOL. 55 

f ul of sugar, one-half of the white of one egg unbeaten, 
and a lump of the washed butter as large as a small 
egg. We worked these ingredients together, using 
the thumb and first two fingers of the right hand, 
adding a little ice water as we gradually worked in the 
flour. We used altogether about one-fourth of a pint 
of ice water. 

Having it well worked together we kneaded it as we 
would bread for five minutes, then divided it ipto two 
equal parts and rolled each piece into a sheet. We 
took the cake of butter we had washed, and after re- 
moving all moisture from it with a napkin, we broke' 
the butter into small pieces and put them on one of 
the sheets. We then dredged it thickly with the 
pastry flour and placed the other sheet on top. We 
pounded it lightly with the rolling-pin, and then rolled 
it from us into one long sheet, being careful afterward 
never to touch it with the fingers. We folded in the 
sides with a spatula, then folded each end over to the 
middle, and then folded it together again. We turned 
the paste around, so the fold went to and from us, and 
rolled it again from us into a long sheet. We folded 
the ends into the middle, so they would touch each 
other, and then folded it through the middle. That 
really makes four layers of paste while in that posi- 
tion. We placed it on a tin pie dish and stood it on 
the ice for fifteen minutes or more, when we placed it 
again with the fold to and from us, and rolled it from 
us into a long thin strip or sheet. The French say 
that this quantity of paste should form a strip eighteen 
inches long. We folded it as before, turned'and rolled 
it, and folded, it the same ; returning it to the pie tin 
we put it again on the ice for fifteen minutes. We 
continued to do this until we had rolled it eight times. 
We then placed it in the refrigerator until the next 
day. The best paste is made when the room and all 
the utensils used are very cold. 

Shells foe Patties. — The next morning we rolled 
our puff paste into a sheet about an eighth of an inch 
in thickness, and with a round cutter we cut out a 



56 TEB WAT Wm DtD AT COOKIN& SCHOOL. 

number of circles, and then took a cutter two sizes 
smaller and cut out the centers from two-thirds of the 
circular pieces. We dipped a small brush into the un- 
beaten white of an egg and lightly touchetl a solid 
circular piece about one-iiaif incli from the edge; wo 
then lifted, with a spatula, one of the rings and placed 
it on the solid piece. We lightly touched the ring, 
about midway from each edge, with the white of 
egg and placed another ring on top. We brushed the 
top of the second ring with the beaten yolk of egg, 
being careful to put it only on the top and that lightly, 
because if any should touch the edges it would prevent 
them from puffing up evenly. As many shells as we 
wanted we prepared in tliis way, then brushed with 
.the yolk of egg the circular pieces taken from the 
center of the rings of a corresponding number to be 
used as lids. We phiced them on a granite pan and 
cut pieces of stale bread to fit within the rings, uoing 
the same cutter, and having the pieces one ana one- 
half inches' high, which we placed within the rings 
and put the pan in the refrigerator for thirty minutes. 
All night would not hurt them, for they must be 
thoroughly cold. 

When the oven was very hot we put them in and 
baked them about thirty minutes. We removed the 
pieces of stale bread, and the paste that was unbaked, 
and returned them to the oven for the centers to dry. 

Lady Locks. — In making lady locks we cut the putf 
paste into strips about one inch wide. It had been 
rolled out the same as for patty shells. We carefully 
wound the strips of paste around the sticks and placed 
them in a baking pan at least two inches from each 
other. After they had been thoroughly chilled in the 
refrigerator we baked them in a quick oven for thirty 
minutes. When done we removed the sticks, anti 
when cold filled the space with a meringue which we 
made by beating the whites of two eggs until stiff and 
dry, then adding carefully three tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and one-half of a teaspoonful of va- 
nilla sugar. 



TBE WAT Wm DID AT COoRm& SOSOOL. 57 

Yol-au-Yent. — Some of the puff paste was wrapped 
in a napkin and kept in a cold, dry place for one week, 
then it was rolled out one inch intliickness. A basin 
the shape of the plate on which it was to be served was 
placed on the paste, and with a sharp knife the paste 
was cnt the shape of the basin. The basin was removed 
and another of the same shape. taken, which would 
leave a one and one-half inch margin of paste around 
this basin, and witli a knife the paste was cut halfway 
through. This basin was removed and the whole top 
brushed with a beaten egg. This was to form the 
shell of a vol-au-vent, which was then placed on a 
baking pan and put in the refrigerator. From other 
puff paste a lid was made by cutting a piece the size 
of the smaller basin and brushing the top of it with 
the beaten egg. It was placed in the pan with tlie 
shell and not baked until the next day, so as to be sure 
to have it ice cold. After baking, the center was 
taken out, as in the patties, and returned to the oven 
to dry. In baking puff paste it is necessary to watch 
the oven carefully, because the paste scorches quickly, 
and it really ought to puff up before it browns. It 
requires thirty-five minutes in a very hot oven to bake 
a vol-au-vent. Should an oven prove to be too 
hot for the paste, open the draughts of the stove and 
place a small vessel of ice water in the oven. 

The principal of the school was very much pleased 
with this vol-au-vent. She said she had never had 
finer made in the sciiool. The shell was two and 
three-eighths inches in height and the lid was one and 
five-sixteenths inch. 

To Cream Oysters. — To cream the oysters for the 
vol au-vent, we took twenty-five oysters drained free 
from liquor, and having put them in a saucepan, 
placed it on the back of the stove for them to heat. 
Having put one pint of milk on in a farina boiler, 
when it was scalded we added one tablespoonful of 
flour that had been worked together with one ounce 
of butter, and stirred until it was free from lumps. 
We added one teaspooirful of salt and one-half tea- 



58 THE WAT WK DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

spoonful of pepper, poured it over tlie oysters and 
stirred theiu until it boiled. We turned them into the 
vol-au-vent, which should then be served immediately. 
If for any reason it were necessary to make puff 
paste when ice is not at hand, bake the paste at once, 
because moist air will make it become tlamp ancl 
limp. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViEGiNiA Reed. 



TEE WAY Win DID Al UOOKlAG SCHOOL. 59 



LETTER VI T. 

November 30, 189-. 
My Dear Cousin Aletpiea : There were three pre- 
nnums offered for the three best loaves of whole wheat 
bread to be sent to the Food Exposition on a certain 
(lay, and as we had made such bread at school, two of 
the girls decided to compete for the prizes. One re- 
ceived the first prize, fifteen dollars, and we rejoiced. 

Whole Wheat Bread. — Tlie way we made whole 
wheat bread was to scald one pint of milk by pouring 
into it one pint of boiling water. We added one tea- 
spoonful of salt and also one of butter. We dissolved 
one cake of compressed yeast in two tablespoon fuls of 
lukewarm water, and stirred it into the liquid when 
the liquid was lukewarm, and added flour sufficient to 
make up but no more than was actually necessary, as 
too much flour makes bread hard and dry. We 
kneaded it until the dough was soft find elastic, and 
did not stick to the hands or board, and then placed it 
in a bowl, put the bowl in a bread raiser, and poured 
warm water in the raiser until the water came up 
over half the height of the bowl. We put the lid on 
the bread raiser and let it stand where it would keep 
warm until the bread was light, about two and one- 
lialf hours. We moulded it without adding any flour 
and placed it in a well-greased square pan, which we 
placed. VYhere it would keep warm for about one hour. 
It must be light and spongy before baking, and if 
slightly indented by a finger it should rebound at 
once when the pressure is removed. We baked it one 
hour. 

In moulding bread it should be handled as little as 



GO 1'nlS WAT wn DID AT COoKlyO SCSOOL. 

possible. In baking bread it should be in the oven ten 
minutes before browning. 

The above quantity of dough might -have been 
moulded into three of the long, narrow loaves such as 
are baked in opened-ended pans. There would tiien 
have been more crust, which is considered tlie most 
ileal thful part of yeast bread, because the heat has 
killed the yeast in the crust and partly converted the 
starch into dextrin. Whole wheat bread is much more 
u'liolesome than other wheat bread, because it con- 
tains more of the gluten and mineral portion of the 
grain. 

We used Bond's gluten-germ whole wheat flour, 
milled at Fort Wayne, Indiana, in making this bread. 

People who are inclined to fermentation, or gas in 
the intestines, should not eat any kind of yeast bread, 
because it aggravates their troubles. 

I will tell you now how we prepared some food for 
invalids. 

Beef Tea. — In makingbeef tea we ground very fine 
one pound of lean beef, taken from the under part of 
the round, and putting it in a granite kettle poured one 
pint of cold soft water over it, and stirred it well with 
a wooden spoon. We let it stand in a cool place for 
two hours, so the water would have a chance to draw 
as much of the substraice out of the meat as possible. 
We then placed it on the back part of the stove, so 
that it could come slowly to the steaming point — 150' 
Fahr. Wlien it had steamed well, we strained it 
through a colander into another kettle, added the 
crushed shell and white of one egg, beaten well with 
two tablespoon f'uls of cold water, and placed the kettle 
on the sto.ve. When the tea had again reached the 
steaming point — under no consideratjon should it be 
allowed to boil, or it will be spoiled — we wrung a piece 
of cheesecloth out of cold water, placed it double over a 
clean colander or sieve and carefully and gently strained 
the tea through. We added one half teaspoonful of 
salt. If desired, a piece of celery, a bay leaf or a clove 
could have been added to the meat while soakinjr. 



THK WA r wjn mn a t cnnRiNa sunool. ei 

Beef tea is used because it is a stimulant, and not 
for its food value, which is so low tliat we are taug-lit 
it has not any. When a patient will not take any 
other stimulant, and yet needs it, or is very low, gi\'e 
the beef teu double strength. Tlie crysttOiized whites 
of from three to six eggs can be added to one pint of 
the tea. The albumin would nourish. In giving 'dcoT 
tea with white of egg in it, warm tiie tea by standing 
the cup in hot water. When the patient is very low, 
give on*? tablesp(jonful each hour. 

Never give beef tea or egg to a scarlet fever patient. 
Give nothing that works on tiie skin or kidneys. They 
could have starches. Whey would be good. 

In pneumonia give beef tea and milk. When ill 
with OF recovering from pneumonia, do not use starches 
or carbonaceous food, because they are excreted by the 
lungs and bowels. 

Beef Juice. — In preparing beef juice we broiled a 
piece of beef over a quick lire for a minute, and then 
out several deep gashes across the grain of the meat 
and put it in a lemon squeezer, or a vegetable press 
would do if a squeezer is not at hand. We pressed the 
juice into a cup and added a wee pinch of salt. We 
warmed t!ie juice by standing the cup in hot water. 
It must be used at once. If the beef is juicy, one gill 
of juice can be obtained from one pound of meat. 

Albumin and Milk. — In pre|)aring albumin and 
milk we poured one-half pint of milk into a pint fruit 
jar and added to it the unbeaten udiite of one egg. 
We screwed on the top and shook the jar until the milk 
and egg appeared light and smooth. It was ready 
then to be used. 

Eggnog. — In making eggnog we separated one egg 
and beat the white to a stilt' froth. We then mixed in 
carefully the slightly beaten yolk of the egg. We let 
two tablespoon fulsof granulated sugar dissolve in one 
cup of cold milk and then gradually added the milk to 
the egg. We poured it into a glass and dusted a little 
grated nutmeg over the top, and it was then ready to 
be served, unless the doctor ordered one tablespoonful 
of brandy to be atkled. 



62 THE WAY WB BID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Eggnog, as it contains the yolk of ' egg, is heavy, 
and is not usually given until after convalescence has 
begun. 

Egg Flip is made by preparing the egg as for eggnog, 
and leaving 5ut the milk altogether add the brandy or 
wine, which cooks the egg. 
' Baelet Watee. — In preparing barley water we put 
two ounces of pearl barley in a granite saucepan and 
added one quart of boiling water, which we allowed to 
boil five minutes. We poured off this water and threw 
it away, as it was used merely to cleanse the barley. 
We added two quarts of boiling water to the barley 
and placed it where it would simmer for about two 
hours and the water be reduced to one quart. We 
skimmed it often, and kept it covered the rest of the 
time until done, when we strained it through a fine 
sieve. Barley water is added to milk in the proportion 
of one part of barley water to two parts of milk. It 
is added to milk to make the milk more easy of diges- 
tion. The water being absorbed by the stomach leaves 
the milk curd in smaller pieces than it would otherwise 
be in, and therefore in a condition to be more easily 
acted upon by the digestive fluids. 

Egg Sotjp. — In preparing egg soup we put one-half 
pint of milk in a double boiler and added one ounce of 
sago, which we cooked twenty minutes, and then 
strained. We added to it an equal quantity of beef 
tea, and while still hot we gradually poured it on the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs, stirring while doing so. 
This makes a very nourishing soup. Farina can be 
used instead of sago and is nearly as good. 

Mulled Wine. — In preparing mulled wine we added 
one tablespoonful of finely broken stick cinnamon and 
five whole cloves to one-half pint of boiling water in 
a granite saucepan. We- covered it, let it steep 
ten minutes and then strained it. We had beaten two 
eggs without separating them, and added to them two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar ;' then we gradually added the 
spiced water and one gill of hot sweet wine and poured 
the mixture into a pitcher. We poured the mixture 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 63 

from one vessel to the other for ten times, and it was 
then ready to be used. ^ 

Indian Gruel. — In preparing Indian gruel we put 
two tablespoonfuls of the 3'ellow granulated corn meal 
into one pint of cold water and stirred it around well. 
We then drained the water off carefully, poured one 
pint of boiling water over tlie meal, put the cover 
on the saucepan and left it to simmer for thirty 
minutes. We placed one lump of loaf sugar, one table- 
spoonful of cream, and a piece of butter as large as a 
iiiclvorj'^nut in a bowl and poured the gruel over them, 
and it was ready to be served. Indian gruel is carbona- 
ceous. 

Oatmeal Geuel. — In preparing oatmeal gruel we 
put two even tablespoonfuls of oatmeal in a saucepan 
and poured on it one pint of boiling water. We added 
a grain of salt and left it to simmer for thirty mmutes. 
We strained it through a sieve and added one lump of 
loaf sugar and the well-beaten white of ohe egg. One 
tablespoonfulof whipped cream could have been added 
instead of the egg. Oatmeal gruel belongs to the 
nitrogenous class of food. 

Both Indian and oatmeal have a laxative effect, so 
should not be used where there is a tendency to diar- 
rhoea, unless made from boiled milk or else boiled, a 
long time. If used when the stomach is unduly acid, 
one tablespoonful of limewater should be added. 

Plum Poeeidge. — In making plum porridge we put 
one pint of milk in a double boiler and added twelve 
good-sized raisins from which we had removed the 
seeds. We covered the boiler and left them to cook 
for twenty minutes. We moistened one level tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch with a little cold milk and 
added it to the hot milk, stirring while it cooked two 
minutes. We strained it through a sieve and added 
one lump of loaf sugar. It should |be served while 
warm. Grape seed contain tannic acid ; therefore 
they should always be left out of food. 

Plain Aeeoweoot Geuel. — - In preparing plain 
ari'owroot gruel we moistened two level tablespoon- 



64 THE WAT WE DID AT (JOOKIN& SCHOOL. 

fuls of arrowroot with a little cold water and then 
added one-half pint of boiling water. "We cooked it 
until 'clear, then added one tablespoonful of sugar and 
two tablespoonfuls of sherry and it was ready to be 
used. This gruel belongs to the carbonaceous class of 
food. 

Aeeoweoot with Egg. — In preparing arrowroot 
with egg we separated one egg, and after beating the 
white and the yolk until light we mixed them together 
carefully. "We then added slowly one pint of plain 
arrowroot gruel, and it was ready to be served with 
toasted crackers. 

Faeina Geuel. — In making farina gruel we sprin- 
kled two level tablespoonfuls of Ilecker's farina into 
one pint of milk in a double boiler. "We stirred it 
and left it to cook for ten minutes, and then added one 
lump of loaf sugar and a grain of salt. It can also be 
made with water and served the same as Indian gruel, 
with butter, sugar and cream. 

Sago Geuel. — In preparing gruel from sago we took 
two tablespoonfuls of sago and one pint of cold water, 
and after bringing them slowly to the boiling point 
we allowed them to boil for five minutes. "We then 
took the gruel from the fire and added one lump of 
loaf sugar and two tablespoonfuls of sherry. It was 
served with strips of toasted bread. 

Geeman Geuel. — In preparing German gruel we 
put one pint of wheat flour into a small bag of strong 
muslin, tied it tightly with twine, placed it in a 
kettle of boiling water, and left it there to boil for 
five hours. "We then took it out, removed the cloth 
and peeled off the portion that was moist. "We 
grated the ball, and having' put it in a baking pan, 
dried it in a moderate oven for two hours, not allow- 
ing it to brown. "When wanted for use we moistened 
two tablespoonfuls of the grated flour with a little cold 
water, stirred in one-half pint of boiling water and 
let it simmer for five minutes for common use. It 
should be simmered eight minutes for a patient trou- 
bled with diarrhoea, or three minutes for one troubled 



THE WAT WE BID AT GOOKINO 8GH00L. 65 

with constipation. We added a grain of salt, one 
tablespoonfui of sugar, and also one gill of milk to the 
gruel before serving. This gruel is considered good 
for children during the summer. 

Rice Flo0e Gruel. — In making gruel from rice 
flour we mixed two even teaspoonfuls of the rice flour 
with four tablespoonfuls of cold milk and then added 
one-half pint of milk scalding hot. We put it in a 
double boiler and cooked it Ave minutes, stirring it all 
the time. We added a grain of salt, one lump of loaf 
sugar, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 
and one teaspoo'nful of brandy. This gruel is consid- 
ered beneficial in cases of diarrhoea. 

Caeeageen Gecel. — In making carrageen gruel we 
washed one-half ounce of Irish moss most thoroughly 
and put it in a double boiler with one pint of boihng 
water and kept it hot for two hours. We then strained 
it and added one-half cupful of granulated sugar and 
the juice of half a lemon. This gruel is soothing to 
the mucous membrane. 

Apple Geuel is made by cooking one apple in a 
double boiler with half pint of water and thickening 
it with one teaspoonful of arrowroot moistened with 
a little cold water. The gruel can be worked through 
a sieve to ensure its freedom from lumps. This gruel 
is good in cases of chronic diarrhoea. 

Peach Juice. — One teaspoonful of peach juice has 
been known to cure cholera infantum. 

Cocoa. — In preparing cocoa we put one quart of 
milk in a double boiler on the stove. We moistened 
four tablespoonfuls of cocoa with a little cold milk 
and added it to the steaming hot milk, stirring all the 
time We stirred it well, then covered the double 
boiler and let it steam for five minutes. It was served 
with whipped cream. 

Broma and aikathrepta were made in the same way. 

Cocoa from the Nibs. — In preparing cocoa from the 
nibs we put one-half cupful of the broken cocoa with 
two quarts ot boiling water on the stove. When the 
water was reduced to one quart, in about two hours, 



66 THE WAT WbJ DID AT COO KINO SCHOOL. 

we added one pint of boiling cream and it was ready 
to be used. 

Racahout Powdee. — We made racahout powder by 
mixing and tliorougtily rubbing together one pound 
of rice flour, one pound of confectioner's XXX sugar, 
one ounce of powdered salep, one pound of cocoa, two 
ounces of arrowroot, two ounces of sugar of milk 
and one vanilla bean. We put tlie powder in glass 
jars and screwed tlie tops on tightly. 

Salep IS an orchid an;l soothes, and when it cannot 
be obtained powdered slippery elm can be used in its 
place. 

Racahodt. — In making racahout we put one pint of 
milk over the fire in a double boiler. We moistened 
one heaping- tablespoon ful of racahout powder with a 
little cold milk, and then added it to the hot milk and 
stirred it until it thickened. We added one table- 
spoonful of sugar and served it with a tablespoon ful 
of whipped cream on the top. 

Racahodt Blanc Mange. — In making racahout 
blanc mange we put one pint of milk in a double 
boiler, and having moistened four tablespoonfuls of 
racahout powder and one of rice flour with a little 
cold milk, we added it to the hot milk and stirred it 
until it thickened. We then added one-half cupful of 
sujjjar, and after stirring' it, turned it into small moulds 
to harden. It was served with un whipped cream. 

Oatmeal foe Breakfast. — In preparing oatmeal we 
used one-half cuptul of Akron, Irish or steel-cut oat- 
meal and one teaspoonful of salt to one and one-half 
pints of boiling, water. We boiled it two hours and 
then kept it steaming hot until next morning. It 
should not be stirred while cooking, as that spoils its 
appearance. It was served while hot with sugar antl 
cream. 

Wheat Geanules. — In preparing wheat granules wei 
added one teaspoonful of salt to one quart of boil- 
ing water and slowly sifted in one-half pint of wheat 
granules, stirring while so doing. We cooked thera 
twenty minutes over a moderate fire. They are 



THK WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. G7 

served while warm with sugar and cream. Wheat 
granules are nitrogenous, being mostly gluten and salts, 
therefore they are not so heating asoatmeal and are 
better for summer breakfasts. They can be moulded 
for next day. 

Farina. — In preparing farina we added one tea- 
spoonful of salt to one quart of boiling water or miijc 
and slowly sifted in enough farina' to make a gruel. 
We stirred it well and allowed it to boil thirty 
minutes. It was served with sugar and cream. 

Eye Mush. — In making rye musii we slowly sifted 
five heaping tablespoonfuls of rye ineal into one quart 
of boiling water, siirring all tiie time. We added one 
teaspoonful of salt and stirred until it boiled, then we 
put on the cover and left it to cook slowly for one 
hour. It was served with sugar and cream. 

Cracked Wheat. — In preparing cracked wheat we 
mixed six tablespoonfuls of the cracked wheat witii 
one teaspoonful of salt and one quart of water. We 
put it in a double boiler and left it to steam or cook 
for four hours. It was served warm, with sugar and 
cream. It is very nice if steamed all night, the same 
as the oatmeal. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

Virginia Reed. 



68 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 



LETTER VIII. 

December 5, 189-. 

My Dear Cousin Alethea : The doctor lias de- 
livered liis last lecture before our class and I ^YiIl now 
write out what I can of three lectures. 

Good teeth are essential to good digestion antl good 
organism. The mother who would have her child 
possess good, teeth should herself use good bone and 
tooth-forming food ; that is, such as are rich in lime, 
potash and soda. When the child arrives it should 
use something similar. Cow's milk is better than 
that of an anjemic mother. When the child is old 
enough let it use cereals, as they contain the necessary 
ingredients. When }'ou would make an organ strong, 
give it work to do. 

A food substance can go through an animal, but food 
to be assimilated must be properly masticated. While 
food is being masticated the parotid glands throw out 
a clear, viscid fluid ; the sublingual and submaxillary 
glands also throw out I'uids. The fluid from all three 
is alkaline and has ptyalin in it. Ptyalin is the 
ferment in the mouth and acts on starch. Wheat 
chewed and mixed with saliva has a part of its starch 
grains broken, which when acted upon by the ptyalin 
is converted into dextrin and is soluble — the gluten 
would not become soluble in an alkaline solution. 
There is no absorption in the mouth cavity. W-hen 
the wheat has become so mingled with the saliva as 
to be easily swallowed, it is carried down the oesopha- 
gus into tiie stomach. A normal stomach holds about 
three pints. 

The churning, peristaltic motion of the stomach is 
caused by the three sets of muscular fibres — longi- 



THE WAY WIS DID AT COOEINO SCHOOL. 69 

tudinal, circular, and oblique — which compose the 
muscular coat of the stomach. This churning motion 
of the stomach is called trituration. 

The mucous .ining of the stomach secretes the 
gastric fluid. Special glands secrete the hydrochloric 
acid and the pepsin. These secretions act on the 
nitrogenous part of oar food, whicii is converted into 
peptone, in which condition it enters the circulation. 

In a mixed diet the saccharine in solution, or liquid 
portion, is absorbed by the stomach ; the rest remains 
four or five hours until chj'mefied. It is tlien passed 
through the pylorus into that division of the small 
intestine called the duodenum. When the heart is 
weak, the digestion feeble from age or disease, f )od 
substances sometimes stay in the stomach so long that 
they become putrid and are thrown up. 

At the head of the colon is found an appendix from 
two to seven and one-half inches in length. It lias 
been found to point to the various points of the com- 
pass. Its use is not known. The colon is from two 
to five times tlie diameter of the small intestine, and a 
sluggish condition might give rise to over-distension, 
which would cause food to collect in the appendix. 
There being no w ay to expel the substance, it putrefies 
and becomes inoculated with germs, causing inflamma- 
tion and ulceration, which diseased condition is called 
appendicitis. 

Dress -certainly has some efl'ect on digestion and the 
internal organs. Lacing causes intestinal troubles 
and induces paralysis. It also, by diminishing the 
lung space, diminishes the supply of oxygen. 

The liver is the largest gland in the body, and in a 
healtliV subject sometimes weighs four pounds. Bile, 
a secretion of the liver, is used for the emulsifying of 
fats. The pancreas is another gland and secretes a 
fluid containing three ferments : tiie trypsin which 
acts on nitrogenous food substances, amylopsin which 
acts on raw starches, and steapsin which acts on fats. 
The duct that conveys the bile from the liver, and the 
one that conveys the pancreatic secretion froni the 



70 THE WAT WE BID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Pancreas, unite and enter the duodenum about two 
inches from tiie pylorus. Biliousness is the result of 
food rotting for the want of the proper action of 
digestion. Fermentation is caused by the presence of 
germs, and their poison, known as ptomains, going 
through the S3'stem and causing severe trouble. 

The doctor defined the physiology of the digestive 
tract as being the science which teaches the workmgs 
of the organs in healtii. 

Our food has been classified by scientists as carbon- 
aceous and nitrogenous. The carbonaceous has been 
divided into saccharine, oleaginous, and starchy. 
From our carbonaceous food we obtain force and 
heat, and our surplus fat is that much stored-up 
energy. Fats are two to four times more valuable 
than starches. We ought to consider the amount any 
one should use. We must consider the amount of 
force expended and vary tiie amount according to the 
work to he done and the time of the year. 

IE the digestion is good we obtain certain results, 
therefore we ought to vary the food according to age, 
condition and occupation. In the summer the food 
should be more cooling than in winter. One pound 
of meat to two and one-half of starchy food is the 
amount for a normal person, subjected, of course, to 
the above conditions. 

Nitrogenous food is never pure; it is always 
mingled more or less with the carbonaceous. Albumins 
are the parts of the nitrogenous food which are called 
tissue builders and repairers of bone, nerve and 
muscle. 

Every action has a reaction, and those who eat 
starch in excess store up fat ; but they must have meat 
to. build up tissue, and really the nitrogenous food is 
more easily digested and assimilated than starchy 
food. We must have both to keep the body in gooH 
condition. 

Ordinary animals have no mental strain and 
therefore would be able to vary with less disturbance 
than we could. We have found that we can vary an 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING 8GE00L. 71 

animal's diet very little without causing trouble. 
Nature goes slowly. Indeed, no sudden action is 
good in nature. Vary, and though the mischief is re- 
mote, it is certain. The proportions required by most 
people have been found to be 3.70 fats or oils", 64.95 
ciirbonaceous, and 7.83 albumins. The most of our 
nitrogen comes from the animal kingdom. Our 
nation requires more of it than other nations because 
more active. We prefer to take it from the albumins 
on account of the quick returns. Sulphur is most 
abundant in nitrogenous food. 

Auxiliary food such as tea and coffee, and condiments 
such as salt and spices, aid in assimilating other food 
and in making it more palatable. Water being liquid 
-has the power to dissolve and carry out the waste 
matter from the system, and must be used clear to in- 
crease the blood supply, and not all saturated merely 
as a dilutant for food. 

The skin is important and gives off one-fourth as 
much as the kidneys and one-third as much as the 
lungs. We should drink one and one-half pints of 
water per day, taking it three or four hours after our 
meals. Taking this quantity of water lessens the 
desire for tea or coffee, or such an abundance of them 
at meal time. Milk taken with a solid meal is a 
surplus, and when taken often causes biliousness. 
Water taken plentifully makes plenty of secretions, 
which are necessary for the regular action of the 
system. 

Wherie the food is too concentrated add something 
indigestible, such as vegetables containing a large 
amount of waste, indigestible material, to keep up the 
action, because daily excreta is necessary to perfect 
health. Sugar when not stored up in the liver is 
passed on and made into fats. 

Food taken in must be sent on. The carbonaceous 
is burned up, forming heat units and carbon dioxid. 
The lungs act as the smokestack and throw off the 
carbon dioxide. Some of the waste is expelled by the 
skin, but most of the waste or ashes is sent out by the 
rectum. 



72 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 

When the lungs are diseased give them rest by cut- 
ting off the carbons. When only weak they will gain 
strength by having, work to do, so you should increase 
gradually the amount of carbons. You relieve diseased 
lungs by increasing the action of the bowels and skin. 

The waste froih nitrogenous matter is uiofitly ex- 
pelled by the kidneys, though the skin with its two 
million pores helps consideral)ly. It-expels about two 
pounds per day, most of which is nitrogenous, though 
there is a little carbonaceous. 

Sugar and starclies are eventually converted into 
carbon dioxid and hciit units, so if for any reason 
you cannot use them, increase.the consumption of oils 
or fats and so keep up the system. 

The doctor gave us the titles of several books which 
he thought would be of service to us. "Food in 
Health and Disease," by Yeo, lie considered the best. 
Fathergill and Chambers on " Diet and Indigestion," 
he considered valuable. "Food," by Edward Smith; 
" Food and Dietary," by B. W. Burnett ; " Digestion 
and Diet," by Boberts ; " Domestic Hygiene," by 
Uffmann, translated by Mary Putnam Jacobi, were 
good. 

Doctor spoke next of the diseases of the digestive 
tract, and is of the opinion that what diseases we get 
directly and positively we get by swallowing them in 
our food. We do not get typhoid fever by impure 
atmosphere ' and excreta, although we might get 
typhus in that way. Diphtheria you get by swallow- 
ing, hence do not put anything in your mouth that 
has not been properly disinfected after having been 
contaminated. lie was not so certain about scarlet 
fever, but thinks it also is swallowed, otherwise we 
could quarantine against it. We breathe in the scales 
the scarlet fever patient throws off and then swallow 
them, because - if they reached the lungs we would 
cough them up as we do dust. 

We should be very particular about our food. 
Look to the mouth first ; see that there are no decayed 
spots in the teeth and that the tartar is cleaned off, 



THE WA Y WW DID AT GooKINO- SCHOOL. 73 

because particles of food find lodgment there, decom- 
pose and are carried on into the stomach with the next 
food, and cause disturbance of the digestion and 
disease. Therefore the mouth must be kept clean. 
The tonsils sometimes become inflamed and instead of 
throwing out their secretion retain it until it becomes 
cheesy and drops with the food, causing disease. 

Catarrhal trouble is a fruitful cause of indigestion. 
Smokers frequently have what is calied aphthous 
patches in their mouths. These patches give forth a 
milky fluid which is anotlier cause of indigestion. 

There is one rule of primary importance in chronic 
disease of an organ : gradually give the organ exercise 
until it gets back to a normal condition. It needs, 
however, very careful management, as too much ex- 
ercise is worse than not enough. The organ should 
have help in performing its work, and be aided ia 
every way to regain its normal function. 

In an acute trouble give tiie organ rest until it has 
recovered its usual strength. Many diseases can be 
cured by diet alone. 

Gastric trouble cannot be relieved while the person 
eats the wrong thing or eats irregularly. 

In acute indigestion food should be withheld from 
one tofive days. If the indigestion arises from over- 
loading the stomach, relief may be obtained by taking 
an enaetio or a mild laxative. If an emetic is taken it 
should be such as warm water with mustard in it, 
never ipecac. Then tiie organ will be so inflamed that 
it should be given rest. Of course, the patients can 
have what water they want at from 48° to 50° 
Fahreniieit, or hot water. After the fever is gone 
there will be an intense craving for food several times 
in twenty-four hours. You must distinguish between 
notion and craving, and remember that the mind is 
weak as well as the body, so you must use your own 
judgment regardless , of whims. Tiie fever will be 
gone and the tongue will become clear in from twent}'- 
four to seventy-two hours. Then give semi-liquid 
food, such as milk with toast, or mutton broth with 



74 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SOHOOL, 

barley in it, two hours apart. JSTever make a sudden 
change. 

In chronic dj'spepsia give the same food as in acute. 
They will improve more rapidly if they take exercise 
in the open air, because the exercise increases the 
circulation and makes them take in more oxygen, 
which gives them more pure blootl to invigorate the 
organ. Gradually get the diet back to meat, eggs, and 
fruits properly ^prepared, re,:;ardless of what they want. 
They have to pay the penalty for having eaten wrong 
things. 

Many diseases, such as skin diseases, are caused by 
faulty digestion. 

The doctor spoke of one of his patients troubled with 
eczema caused by excessive use of nitrogenous food. 
He allowed the patient but two quarts of milk per day 
and all the water he wanted. After three weeks' 
treatment he was very much improved. All the 
medicine given was a little laxative and corrective for 
the digestion. 

Very rich milk or fatty matter will cause this skin 
trouble in children. He knew of one case where 
changing from a Jersey to a common cow effected a 
cure. The object is to cure, and Avhere that result is 
not obtained science is at fault. 

Intestinal indigestion comes on one hour after eat- 
ing. There is rumbling and flatulency, and after a 
time the dilation becomes chronic. It can be cured by 
reducing the quantity of food, and using massage and 
sometimes electricity. 

Nine-tenths of the cases of typhoid fever can be 
cured without medicine if the patient is ])ut at rest, 
and given proper care, with proper liquid food and 
proper stimulants. Medicine would be necessary in 
scarlet fever if the fever were complicated with kidney 
trouble. If the temperature rises above one hundred 
you make up for the burning up by furnishing more of 
the fuel required, unless the trouble is acute; then you 
let the patient burn up the fuel he has stored in his 
body and make up the amount to him during conva- 



TBE WAT WB BID AT COOKING SCHOOL. % 

lescence. Use milk and barley water, partly malted 
food like Mellin's, and maltine — not thin malts, because 
they are too much like porter. They are not good for 
gouty or rheumatic patients, though of the utmost ad- 
vantage for other patients when boiled with milk or 
broths. Be careful about using chicken broth, because 
it is laxative. 

If ulcer should occur in typhoid fever great care will 
be necessary, as the ulcer does not heal until the fever 
has left; and the return to solid food must also be at- 
tended with care. It is best to wait seven days, then 
give milk toast with the crust cut off. When you first 
let them have meat, let them only chew it, rejecting 
every particle of fibre. 

Local troubles, such as appendicitis, bilious colic and 
peritonitis cannot be cured by diet. 

In chronic troubles, cut down the amount till you 
know what the organs can do, then gradually build 
up. People seldom have acute inflammation of the kid- 
neys unless they use too much niti'ogenous food. To 
cure, increase the activity of the skin and the amount 
of the carbons, and decrease the amount of nitrogenous 
food. 

Pneumonia being an acute inflammation due to a 
cold, or resulting from a severe cold, it is better to call 
for heat on the stored-up fats and cut off the carbon-, 
aceous foods. Give broths. 

The nitrogenous principle from vegetables are harder 
to digest than those of animal origin. If you cut off 
all food and decrease the circulation by giving dilutants, 
the fever will subside more rapidly, sometimes in 
twenty-four hours. 

Animal food, egg, meat and green vegetables are 
preferable to starchy foods. Use alcoholic stimulants 
very sparingly, unless the heart demands it. Increase 
the action of the skin, 

In consumption, many of the patients can be cured. 
As in other chronic diseases you find out how mucii 
the patient can digest and gradually increase the action 



76 THE Wat we did a t cooking sohool. 

of the organs. Oil and cream are very good, and all 
foods that agree with the patient. 

In cases of acute stomach indigestion give mostly 
starchy foods. To relieve an acute condition of the, 
mucous membrane, decrease the work of the lungs by 
increasing that of the skin in giving a sweat. Give 
all the, water they wish to drink. Keep the patient 
quiet and warm. The patient should drink one quart 
of cold, soft water before going to bed and soak his feet 
in hot water, then cover up warm. Very little food 
should be taken. 

If a person is continually taking cold, he should take 
a cold bath, or one just warm enough to keep from 
chilling, and then rub down well. A continual taking 
cold produces an enlargement of the part affected. A 
very hot bath paralyzes the vasomotor nerves, the 
capillaries dilate, and the blood comes to the surface, 
making one red. 

The doctor thought that in very many cases the 
recovery depended more upon having proper articles 
of food, properly prepared, than upon the medicine. 

I will now write out the way in which we made 
gluten bread. It can be used by the diabetic, though 
we liked the taste of it ourselves. The gluten flour is 
so much more expensive than common flour that people 
in good health do not make much use of it. 

Gluten Bread. — We scalded one pint of sweet milk 
by pouring into it one pint of boiling water. We then 
beat two eggs, without separating them, until light, 
and added them to the milk and water. When the 
milk was lukewarm we added one-half cake of com- 
pressed yeast that had been dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls of lukewarm water; also added one ounce of 
butter and enough gluten flour to make a soft dough. 
It must be much softer than for white bread. We 
beat it well for about fifteen minutes, then poured it 
into greased pans, and covered it until very light, 
when we put it into a hot oven and baked it forty-five 
minutes. 



TRE WAT WR DID AT GOOKINQ SCHOOL. 77 

Gluten Gems. — For gluten gems we beat one egg 
without separating, added to it one-half pint of water 
and then stirred in one-lialf pint of gluten flour. We 
beat it well and poured it into gem pans that had 
been heated and well greased. We baked them in a 
quick oven for twenty-five or thirty minutes. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViEGiNiA Reed. 



78 THE WAT WE DID AT COOETNO SCHOOL. 



LETTER IX. 

December 8, 189-. 

My Deae Cousin Alethea : Our teachers often an- 
swer questions, and talk about the various diseases, 
and give us hints as to feeding the patients. In all 
cases, however, it is best to consult the physician in 
charge, because there might be such complications as 
would render it unwise to give certain articles. I 
know from experience that it is hard sometimes to 
think of any food suitable for the occasion, so I tried 
net to lose a single suggestion. 

In Eheumatism it is the serum, not the corpuscles of 
the blood, that is treated. It is usually caused by ex- 
cess of nitrogenous matter or port wine, though it 
may be brought on by exposure after meals. In 
rheumatism and gout, take away from the patients all 
albumins. They can have no beef and very little veal. 
No sugar, as it turns to acid, nor oatmeal, nor pota- 
toes, for the same reason. Lettuce contains nitre, 
therefore can be used freely, because the waste of 
nitrogenous matter is thrown off by the skin and kid- 
neys. Candies are converted into acids where there 
is a predisposition to rheumatism ; therefore such per- 
sons should avoid them and supply force by fats of 
meat and olive oil. The skin should be kept very clean 
b}' batiiing. In some cases they give alcoholicsweats 
and rub well with a flesh brush. Chalk deposits are 
caused by uric acid in the blood. Use all green veg- 
etables growing above tiie ground. In gout the acid 
of fruits helps to neutralize the acid of the blood. 
Fish can be used in some cases, because they contain 
less acid than otiier meat. 

In Diabetes take away from the patients all sugar 



THE WAT Wa DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 79 

and starch, bul increase the amount of albumin. Give 
all vegetables growing above the ground, but not old 
or dry beans or peas. They can have onions and tur- 
nips and gluten bread, but it would be better if they 
would do without any bread. They can use all nuts 
except chestnuts. They can have bouillon, consomme, 
and all meats except pork and veal. Milk, with the 
white of one egg to the cup, may be taken comfortably 
cold, but no ice water for them or for any one else. 
For dessert use Japanese gelatin made from seaweed. 
Having carefully washed one fourth of an ounce of 
seaweed, put it into one quart of boiling water and 
boil it one hour. When less water is used and some 
milli_is added to finish cooking it, it looks like blanc 
mange. Different liavorings can be used with gelatin, 
but do not use pineapple with animal gelatin, because 
bromelin, which is tlie active principle of the pineapple, 
has the power of digesting albuminoids, on account of 
which the gelatin could not long retain a moulded 
form ; and for the same reason eggs should not be 
used with pineapple. When a pineapple dessert is de- 
sired for a diabetic, use the Japanese gelatin with the 
pineapple, though the pineapple may be combined with 
some starchy material for other people. 

Brain trouble, such as prolonged mental anxiety and 
dietetic errors, are predisposing causes of diabetes, 
though it may be due to degeneration of the pancreas 
and liver. Patients should batlie twice a week in hot, 
salted water, and afterward rub well with sweet oil 
and glycerin. The other days they shpuld take a 
sponge bath, using ammonia in the water. They 
should wear silk or flannel next to the skin and spend 
two-thirds of the time in the open air. 

Diabetics may use one-quarter of a pound of butter 
a day. They also can use wafers made from almond 
meal and eggs, and rolls made of the almond meal 
with the unbeaten whites of eggs. Great care must 
be exercised in coming back to common diet. , Give 
but half a slice of gluten bread, and that toasted, and 
at the end of five weeks allow one-third as mucl) bread 
PS meat, 



80 THE WAT WB DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Diflferent doctors var^' tlie treatment according to 
the patient. Some use nothing but milk, gradually 
increasing the quantity from two tablespoonfuls to one 
cupful at a time, using two quarts daily and taking it 
unheated. Others think a meat diet is best, so they 
make a pulp from the meat by scraping it, so as to 
avoid all fibre, cartilage and fat. They season this 
meat pulp with salt, a little pepper, and Wcfrcestershire 
sauce or ehetney. The}' allow celery with every meal, 
and use hot water for a drink. Others allow cranber- 
ries, sour cherries, limes, lemons, red currants, and also 
olives, watercress, green vegetables — but no turnips — 
oysters or liver; and let them drink buttermilk, skim- 
niiik, sour wines (Rhine wines), carbonated waters, 
coffee and tea without sugar. 

In preparing cranberries for a diabetic, to one pint 
of well-washed cranberries add one-half pint of water 
and boil them until the berries burst, then press them 
through a colander and add six grains of saccharine. 

In making saccharine jelly, dissolve one half box of 
gelatin in one-half pint of cold water. Add the juice 
of one large lemon and one-half pint of boiling water, 
and after adding six grains of saccharine turn it into 
a mould to harden. 

In Bright's Disease tlie urine is scanty and the kid- 
neys excrete albumin. To test, boil the urine and add 
vinegar ; if it separates and appears like tlie white of 
a boiled egg, there is albumin present. Too much 
nitrogenous food has broken down the kidneys ; so 
now live on starchy food. For acute attacks, one-half 
milk and one-half barley water is considered a great 
cure, or gruels strained and made light by adding 
whipped cream. Cut off all meats and give all the 
milk they want. Cream and leban are also good for 
them. Be very careful about chilling the surface, as 
that might bring on an attack of Brfght's disease or 
instantly kill those having it. 

Hard water or too much bakinjj soda mav brina: on 
gravel. 

Spinach contains nitre and is said to purify tb© 



THK WAY WE DID AT GOUKINO SCHOOL. 81 

blood. Lettuce contains nitre as well as opium, and 
therefore acts on the kidneys. Poke shoots and dan- 
delion act on the liver and kidneys. Asparagin works 
on the kidneys and is found in asparagus and in a 
small quantity in the white potato. 

Typhoid Fevee is caused by microbes fastening 
themselves in Peyer's patches in the duodenum. The 
fever makes its appearance as a rash, generally over 
the abdomen, though sometimes it comes under the 
shoulder blades or arms. Typhoid fever sometimes 
affects the heart, so be very careful about moving a 
patient. After the heart becomes weak, the blood 
does not circulate properly, and sometimes a clot of 
blood v?ill form in a vein and the limb should be put 
into splints and kept still for three weeks. It is wise 
to wear a bandage for a year or more, because if 
these verrucose veins burst they never heal. To touch 
the part affected in flevitus causes pain. In typhoid, 
sometimes the lungs are affected, in which case the 
patient should lie^on his back, but if the heart is 
affected he should lie on the right side. Sometimes 
the blood becomes so impoverished that it causes 
various glands over the body to open as running sores. 
The brain and heart are w'eak, so must not be over- 
taxed. 

Give the food cold unless ordered otherwise by the 
physician, because anything warm draws the blood to 
the stomach, and so is more liable to cause a hemor- 
rhage. All food should be liquid, and when milk 
disagrees, or they want a change, give a broth flavored 
with a clove, a bay leaf, mace or celery. Matzoon is 
excellent. Dishes" prepared from Irisli moss are good 
in fever, because the moss has a soothing effect on the 
intestinal tract. Give a teaspoonful or a tablespoon- 
f ul as they desire. All vegetables are to be cut off in 
typhoid fever as well as in cholera. Sometimes, 
Instead of beef tea, give chicken tea made from the 
thigh and leg, seasoned with a little salt and pepper. 
In some cases every other feeding should be two 
tablespoonfuls of beef tea (a stimulant) and the other 



82 TEE WA\ WE LID AT COOKING SVIIOOL. 

should be milk and baiicy water (a food). The patient 
will sink as soon as tiiere is a perforation. Always 
move the patient with the greatest care. 

Not wishing to tire you out with diseases in tliis 
letter, I will now give you a few recipes for preparing 
eatables. 

Lemon Jelly. — In making lemon jelly we covered 
one box of gelatin with one pint of cold water and 
let it soak one hour. We then added one quart of 
boiling water, one pound of sugar and the juice of 
three large lemons. Having stirred until the sugar 
was dissolved, we strained it through a sieve into a 
mould and stood it in a cold place to harden. 

AViNE Jelly. — In making wine jelly we poured one- 
half pint of cold water on one box of gelatin and left 
it to soak for one hour. We then added one pint of 
boiling water and two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
stirred until the sugar was dissolved. We then added 
one pint of sherry and strained it through a flannel 
into moulds, which we stood away to harden. 

Calf's Foot Jelly. — In making jelly from a calf's 
feet we washed and scrubbed well four feet in cold 
water. We put them in a soup kettle, added four 
quarts of cold water and placed it where it would 
simmer slovvky for several ifours, until the liquid was 
reduced to two quarts, and then strained it into an 
earthen bowl, which we placed where it would keep 
cool until next dav. In the morning we took off all 
the fat from the top of the jelly and removed all the 
sediment from the bottom. We then put the jelly in 
a kettle on the stove and added two inches of stick 
cinnamon, one pound of white sugar, the juice of two 
oranges, and also of two lemons, the whites of two 
eggs slightly beaten, and the crushed shells of eight 
eggs. We mixed all the , ingredients well together 
nnd left it where it would boil hard for twenty 
minutes without being stirred. We then threw in one 
gill of cold water, and when it had come to the boiling 
point, we drew it to a cooler part of the range and 



THE WAT WB BIB AT GOOKINQ SCHOOL. 83 

left it closely covered for one-half hour. We dipped 
a flannel jelly bag into boiling water and hung it up 
over a bowl. We tiien carefully poured the jelly into 
the bag and left it to drip slowly. We were very 
particular not to touch or squeeze the bag, as that 
would cloud the jelly. We then turned the jelly into' 
moulds and put it in a cold place to harden. When 
wine is to be added it should be put in before the jelly 
is turned into the moulds. One-half pint of sherry 
would be the correct amount to add. 

Dey Toast. — In preparing dry toast we cut stale 
bread into slices and slightly moistened each slice by 
dipping it quickly into hot water. We put it in the 
toaster atld held it over a clear fire, turning first one 
side and then the other, until both sides were dry, and 
then toasted a golden brown. Each piece of toast we 
spread quickly with butter, and piling them on a 
heated plate, we covered them with a napkin and the 
toast was ready to be served. 

Milk Toast. — In making milk toast we dipped 
very quickly four small slices of stale bread into hot 
water, and after drying them on both sides we toasted 
them a golden brown and spread each slice while hot 
with butter. We put one pint of milk in a double boiler, 
and having moistened one tablespoonful of cornstarch 
with a little cold milk, we added it to the hot milk in 
the boiler and stirred until it thickened. We added 
one-fourth of a [teaspoonful of salt, and then poured 
the milk over 'the toast, which should be served 
immediately. 

Ceeam Toast. — In preparing cream toast we toasted 
the bread as for milk toast, but did not butter it. We 
heated one pint of cream and added one-fourth of a 
teaspoonful of salt and poured it over the toast, which 
should be served at once. 

Panada. — In makmg -panada we cut six stale rusks 
into halves and put them into the oven until they 
were a golden brown and thoroughly dried. When 
cool we placed two pieces in a bowl and added one 
tablespoonful of butter, ono-half pint of boiling water 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 



84 TEE WAT WE DID AT VOOKINQ SCHOOL. 

Poached Eggs. — In poaching eggs we selected those 
that wo were sure were fresh, because the shell looked 
dull and porous, and when held up before a strong 
light the yolk appeared round and the white sur- 
rounding it clear, and when put in a bucket of water 
the fresh ones sank at once. We had a stewpan 
more than half-full of freshly boiling water, and after 
removing it from the fire we gently slipped an egg 
into the water from a saucer upon which we had 
broken it. "We added as many eggs as desired, or 
until the bottom of the pan was covered. . We re- 
turned the stewpan to the stove, and when the water 
boiled again the eggs were done. The white had 
hardened enough to look like a veil, through which 
you could see the yolk- We took up each egg on a 
kind of skimmer, and having trimmed off the ragged 
edge, placed it on a slice of buttered toast, which 
should then be served at once. 

Boiled Eggs. — In boiling eggs, especially in cold 
weather, the eggs should be kept one hour in the room 
before putting them on to boil, because the sudden ex- 
pansion of the contents of the shell when immersed in 
the boiling water will cause the shell to crack. Stale 
eggs do not crack so easily as fresh ones, because part 
of their liquid has evaporated and been replaced by 
air. We placed a large stewer filled two-thirds full of 
water on the range, and when the water boiled we 
dropped the eggs into the boiling water. We covered 
the vessel closely and placed it on the part of the 
range where it could not boil. When the eggs had 
been five minutes in the water we took them out, be- 
cause the white, though liquid, was cooked, and being 
soft-boiled they were pronounced easy to digest. 

At»PLE Watee. — In preparing apple water we roasted 
p, good'Sized. apple until tender. Carefully placing thQ 
ppplg with all of its juice in a bowl, we poured one> 
pint of boiling water over it, and covering it up closely 
let it stand until cold. When wanted we drained the 
water from the apple and added a little sugar for those 
patigijti§ ^b9 are permittied to use sugar. 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 85 

Toast "Water. — In preparing toast water we cut a 
slice one-half inch thick from a five-cent loaf and 
toasted it over a slow fire until it was a dark brown 
and dried through. We were very particular not to 
let it scorch, as that would spoil the flavor. Having 
placed the toast in a bowl we poured over it one pine 
of boiling water. After having stood until cold we 
strained it and it was ready to be used. Toast water 
quenches thirst more quickly than plain water and 
contains a very little nutrition. 

Cinnamon Tea. — In making cinnamon tea we broke 
one-half ounce of stick cinnamon into small pieces, 
and having put them into a granite teapot we poui'ed 
on them one pint of boiling water. We let it steep 
on the stove for ten minutes and it was ready to use. 
This tea is good to warm up a patient having diar- 
rhoea. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViBGINIA EeEd. 



TEE WAT WE DID AT OOOKINO SCHOOL. 



LETTER X. 

December 12, 189-. 

My Deae Cousin Alethea : Phthisis, cholera infan- 
tum, mirasmus and consumption of the bowels are 
forms of non-assimilation. . The primary cause is fer- 
mentation in the stomach. If a person dislikes fats, 
then the lungs are the part to break down first; 
therefore such persons ought to build up their muscles 
and tissues. Children should not have the fat cut off 
from their meat. Old folks should be particular to 
eat some fruit and drink plenty of water. 

Consumptives should use an extra amount of nitro- 

fen and fats, and decrease the starches and sugars, 
'ats create more heat than the starches and sugars. 
Never insist on any one using the fat of beef, because 
it is muscular and when cooked is changed. Mutton 
fat is much better. Some doctors recommend beef 
tea, meat and salad oil. One teaspoonful of oil daily 
is enough, and is best when taken with other food. 
Two-inch squares of whole wheat bread toasted and 
eaten with as much butter is good ; so, also, is rice 
with rich cream. Olive oil being a fruit oil is the best 
for consumptives. JNever give them seed oils, because 
they are drying. Give ,the oil on green salads. To 
one pint of beef tea add two ounces of dry albumin, 
and have the patient use one pint each day. A 
patient must have plenty of fresh air. If confined to 
the house, move the patient to another room and air 
his room three times a day, so he need not breathe 
the poisonous carbon monoxid. Be sure the temper- 
ature is right before the patient returns to the room. 
Many tbiak the air of pines, suoU as those of New 



TES WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 87 

Jersey, is as good as that of Colorado, and the pine 
odor is healing. 

Never force a patient to take anything he does not 
want, but make everything agreeable, tasty and 
sightly. Never give candies, because they affect the 
liver. Be careful not to upset the stomach, and give 
food five times a day. Give liot milk before he gets 
up in the morning, and again before going to bed, as 
tiiat tends to draw the blood from the head and 
enables him to sleep well. Ahvays sip milk, and do not 
give it to a consumptive cold, unless as milk ])unch 
with raw egg in it. Give beef at least once a da3' — 
tenderloin broiled or chopped fine and baked, game 
occasionally, oysters and tripe with cream sauce is ex^ 
cellent. Never give fish, as it might upset the stom- 
ach. Keep the patient very warm. If he dislikes 
fats, rub him well with warm water till you get up a 
glow, then rub in about three tablespoonfuls of cod- 
liver oil, though almond oil would do. To the bath 
you can add alcoiiol, whisky, vinegar or cologne. 
Bathe with powdered alum dissolved in alcohol to pre- 
vent bed sores. 

The patient could have a slice of Brazilian nuts oc- 
casionally. Rice would be the best form of starch. 
Leban and koumiss are good ; so are green vegetables ; 
but give no potatoes or oatmeal. Egg, whipped, taken 
raw or cooked, is excellent; or, whip the white and 
yolk of an e^g separately and add sugar and sherry. 
You can add brandy to the whipped egg. To arrow- 
root gruel you can add lemon or brandy. Barthelow's 
food, with a little celery salt added, is an admirable 
food ; and Irish moss is also good. Let tiie stomach 
have a little rest between each feeding. 

Some doctors claim that the first stage is caused by 
the fermentation of sugars and acids. The stomach 
has become a yeast garden, producing sour yeast and 
alcohol; and if this condition is continued it passes 
into the blood and the blood becomes thinner, then 
ropy and sticky. There is a tendency to tire and get 
out of breath, and a marked tendency to have cold' 



88 THE WAT WE DTD AT COOEINa SCHOOL. 

feet. This condition sometimes lasts two years. 
Sometimes the heart does not throw the blood to the 
head, so the patient becomes dizzy. After yeasty fer- 
mentation has continued for some time the pylorus be- 
comes so paralyzed that it cannot stay closed, so the 
blood becomes impaired, and after it is loaded with 
bile, the pulse will be slow, and in the last stage the 
feet swell. Before the last stage the heart becomes 
fatty, the liver and spleen amyloid, and though the 
yeasty products drop into the small intestine, there is 
still a chance of recovery. In the third stage many 
patients are troubled with a chronic diarrhoea. 

In all stages, diet, exercise and surrounding condi- 
tions are to he carefully attended to. Keep the bowels 
clear from yeasty fermentation. Sour yeasty spores, 
after they have entered the blood, multiply and can- 
not pass through in oxidization. At first consumption 
i^ confined exclusively to the digestive organs, but if 
continued long the mucous lining becomes paralyzed. 
In many cases Virginia claret is better than fruits 
arid sugar. Avoid tannin, because it causes constipa- 
tion. If a patient sinks quickly, give liquor to tide 
over. In miner's consumption the air cells are filled 
with coal. 

When the lungs are weak, protect the back across 
the shoulders with an extra flannel. 

In Asthma the local manifestation is in the eyes, 
laryrix, and bronchial tubes. The paroxj'sms are 
nervous in origin. The primary^cause is unhealthy 
feeding and overeating. Keep the stomach clean and 
the improvement will bejmore rapid. Fruit and meat 
are the best cure. The stomach is the hub where all 
revolve. Asthmatic people are very apt to take cold, 
so they must- l^eep the extremities warm and avoid 
taking cold, because all colds travel downward, and a 
very heavy cold travels quickly ; so look out for the 
lungs. A person having indigestion with flatulency is 
apt to have a cold settle in the air passages. In asth- 
ma cut off all sugars and starclies for the time beino-. 
If taken off too long the kidneys would break down. 



TeM Wat We Dtn aT cOoKixg SciiOoL go 

Give grapes three times a (ky. Ctikes made from 
corn are more easily digested than those made from 
wheat. In acute paroxysms use strong coffee. Strong 
coffee sometimes produces tremblings 

Cold .causes indigestion. Clear the system by drink- 
ing hot water and do not overeat. Use meats, but 
never any of the cereals. 

Clergymen's Sore Throat is caused by improper use 
of the vocal cords, irritated by the impure air from 
the audience beating against the wall and then down 
on the speaker. 

Paralysis. — Remember that in paralj'sis fruit helps 
to keep the blood in a liquid condition. 

Scrofula. — The Indians do not allow those having 
a tendency to scrofula to use salt, sugar, spice, or con- 
diments. Take plenty of outdoor exercise, living in 
the open air as much as possible. Take little starchy 
food and no sweets. Use plenty of fats, but no shell- 
fish or anything that :s a scavenger. Do not touch a 
scrofulous swelling, but take oil to keep them down. 

Bowel Trouble. — Irish moss made into the form of 
blanc mange is good in bowel trouble, because it has a 
soothing effect on the mucous membrane. Leafy 
products having a full green color possess more or less 
purgative properties, while herbaceous articles have 
high antiscorbutic virtue. Apples, on account of con- 
taining salts and phosphorus, strengthen the lower 
bowel, and are good in diarrl)cea or constipation. 
Apple gruel and plum porridge are especially good for 
using in chronic diarrboea. Succulent, food, either 
fruits or vegetables, moves the bowels, \yhile farina- 
ceous seeds do not stimulate to action. Eggs are con- 
stipating. Those troubled with constipation should 
walk from five to ten miles a day and avoid sittmg. 
Fibre of meat sometimes causes diarrhoea. In diar- 
rhoea keep the patient still, even if you have to put 
him in splints. 

Too much sugar makes one bilious and the skin 
rough. Predigested food is given only when a person 
has not. strength to digest it. Leban will stay on the 



90 TUB WA 7 WE DID A f COOKING SCHOOL, 

stomach when nothing else will. Those who cannot 
digest oil should rub it in over the abdomen. 

In ScAELET Fevee do not give egg or beef tea. Give 
starches. Whey would be [good. Give nothing that 
works on the skin or kidneys. 

Wine Whet. — In making wine whey we put one 
cup of milk in a double boiler, and when steaming hot 
we added one-fourtli of a cup, or four tablespoonfuls, of 
sherry wine quickly, and tlieii removed it at once from 
the fire and strained it through two thiciinesses of 
cheesecloth. This is lo ba used by weak persons 
needing stimulants, and can be served with or without 
sugar. We were very particular to see that every 
particle of curd was removed. 

Cup Costaeds. — In preparing cup custards we beat 
four eggs all together until light. (Four is the least 
number that will thicken one quart.) We added one- 
half cupful of sugar, one-fourth of a grated nutmeg, 
and one quart of sweet milk. Having stirred until the 
sug^r was dissolved, we poured it into custard cups. 
We placed these cups in a pan of boiling water and 
put it into the oven. We left them to bake until firm 
in the center. We tested thera by putting the handle 
of a spoon in the center ; when the custard did not stick 
to the handle it was pronounced done, and we removed 
the cups from the water and stood them away to cool. 
They are served in the same cups in which they were 
baked. 

Apple Snow. — In preparing apple snow we pared, 
cored and steamed six good-sized apples. When 
tender we pressed them through a sieve and left them 
to cool. When cold we added one cup of sugar and 
the juice of one lemon. We beat the whites of six 
eggs until very stiff and then added the apples, one 
spoonful at a time, and kept on beating till all the 
apples had been worked in. It was dipped into glasses 
and served at once. 

Velvet Ceeam. — In preparing velvet cream we put 
otle-fourtb of a box of granulated gelatin to soak ia 



TBi: Wat wb did at ooOkinci- school. 91 

one-fourth of a cup of cold water. "When it bad 
soaked one half hour we added one cup of cream, and 
standing the saucepan over the teakettle of boiling 
water, having first removed the teakettle lid (a double 
boiler would do as well), we stirred until all the 
gelatin was dissolved. We added one-half cup of 
sugar and continued to stir until we had added another 
cup of cream and one gill of sherry wine. We strained 
it into a mould and put it in a cold place to harden. 

Caeeageen. — In preparing carrageen we washed one- 
fourth of a cupful of Irish moss through several waters 
and then added one pint of milk. When it was soft 
and white, in about thirty minutes, we turned it into 
a double boiler and stirred it until the milk was steam- 
ing hot. We added one-fourth of a cup of sugar and 
strained it into small moulds. It was to be served 
very cold with cream, sweetened and flavored with 
wine. 

Ceystallized Eggs.— In crystallizing eggs we 
separated them and spread the unbeaten white out on 
apiate and placed it where it would evaporate quickly. 
We bottled the thoroughly dried flakes. The whites 
of from three to six eggs can be added to one pint of 
clarified beef tea and used in fevers. By dissolving 
the crystallized eggs in cold water as we would gelatin 
they can be beaten stifif and used in cakes. 

Sepaeated Egg. — In preparing a separated egg the 
white was beaten until light, but not stiff. We then 
turned the white into a small bowl or cup and placed 
the unbroken yolk in a slight depression in the center. 
We placed the cup in a pan of hot water in the oven 
and covered" it over with another pan and baked it 
from one and a half to two minutes. When done we 
added a trifle of butter, a little salt, but no pepper. 

Lentil Geuel. — In preparing lentil gruel we soaked 
one-half pint of lentils over night, having previously 
looked them over and washed them. We drained off 
that water, and added fresh soft water and cooked 
them until tender, and after pouring off the water we 
pressed them through a sieve. It looked like a thick 



9^ The WAT WM btb AT C00KIN& sdnooL. 

apple sauce. "We added butter and salt. Serve two 
tablespoonfuls in one cup of hot milk. This gruel is 
good sometimes for lying-in patients. So, also, is 
Indian gruel. 

SuKT IN Milk.— In preparing suet in milk, which is 
good lor those suifering from lung trouble, we chop- 
ped one ounce of suet fine and simmered it thirtj' 
minutes, in a double boiler, with one quart of milk. 
We strained it carefully through two thicknesses of 
cheesecloth. It should then be salted to taste. 

Leban. — In making, leban we boiled milk, and when 
it was cool enough for us to be able to hold a finger 
in it, we added one tablespoon ful of leban to each half 
pint of the boiled sweet mdk. "We covered it and al- 
lowed it to stand in a warm place foi" about four hours, 
until it was in a solid condition. "When cold we beat 
it up, bottled it and kept it in a cold place. Leban 
when beaten up as for bottling is called matzoon. 
Leban is ver}'' nutritive and tije stomach will take it 
when it can retain nothing else. Leban must be pre- 
pared each week, as it will not keep longer. 

1 thought perhaps you would like to try this 
matzoon, so I inquired about it and found you could 
buy a bottle by sending to 272 and 274 Forty-second 
Street, near Cottage Grove Avenue, Chicago. The 
Armenians grow very enthusiastic in speaking of 
leban. They declare that if men had leban and coffee 
served to them in a comfortable room, tiiey would not 
care for drink. They would liave a nourishing food 
and so would not crave a stimulant. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

Virginia Reed. 



THE WA T Win DIT) AT OOoKlNG SOSOOL. 93 



LETTER XL 

December lY, 189-. 

My Dear Cousin Alethea : It is now about three 
weeks since the Food Exposition closed, and about two 
weeks since we finished the course of Invalid Cooker}'', 
so now we have one lecture from the professor of 
chemistry each week, and a few questions each day, 
and also cook some. It seems most delightful to liave 
the quiet and regular work of the schoolroom after 
the crowded rooms and excitement of the Exposition. 
Of a truth, too much even of a good thing grows 
wearisome. There were several otiiers who joined the 
school just for the health notes and invalid cookery. 
Now, again, we are only seven. 

I believe the last lecture from the professor, that T 
wrote off for you, was about " Microbes." The next 
lecture was about " Plants and Starch." 

Plants both feed and have a respiration. They 
help to complete the circle of nature, for, wherever 
there is decomposition or putrefaction, tlie microbes 
feed on the proteids. The nitrogen is sometimes set 
free, but generall}' it goes througii changes by which 
it is converted into ammonium compounds and then 
into nitrates. These nitrates are lodged in the soil, 
from which they are drawn by plants in feeding. The 
plant does not take in nitrogen as we do air. The 
green coloring matter of plants corresponds to the 
red corpuscles of our blood. This green coloring 
matter, or clilorophyll, receives carbon and water 
from the air, and its force comes from the sun. Plants 
which do not receive liglit are devoid of chlorophyll. 

All plants do not draw their sustenance from the 
ground, because some fasten themselves upon other 



54 THE WAT M'a DID AT COOEtNG SCHOOL. 



plants and assimilate the food they have prepared. 
Such i)lants do not possess chlorophyll, because they 
have no need for it. There are many beautiful vari- 
eties of these parasites. Some plants are sa-id to be 
epiph^'tic, because while growing upon others they 
partly support themselves. To tbis class belong the 
mistletoe and orchids, and such, of course, have a little 
of the green color. 

To keep plants in a bedroom is not now considered 
especially advantageous, because it is known that they 
give off carbon dioxid in breathing and absorb some 



oxygen, as we do. 



even though we 



give off heat and 



they take it in. 

The professor explained for us the starch grains, 
and showed us that they are encased in cells, the walls 
of which are composed of a somewhat woody fibre 
called cellulose. The spot from which the granule 
grows is called the hilum. A granule grows in the 
sense that it increases in size, but it is not living like 
a microbe, because it has neither ancestry nor progeny'. 
The professor showed under the microscope several dif- 
ferent starch grains. 




ARROWROOT. 




TAPIOCA. 



CCRNSTAKCH 




Give the classification of vegetables. Give examples. 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 95 

Roots, tuDers, bulbs, shoots, stalks, leaves, flowers, 
fruits, seeds, and fung The carrot is a root ; the 
potato is a tuber ; the onion is a bulb ; asparagus is 
a shoot ; celery is a stalk ; lettuce is a leaf ; cauliflower 
is a flower ; tomato is a fruit ; beans are seeds, and 
mushrooms are fungi. 

To what family does the potato belong? What 
condiment belongs to the same familj^? The 
SolanaceoB or Nightshade family. Capsicum, or cayenne 
pepper, is a condiment belonging to the same family. 

Give the chemical composition of potatoes. Water 
composes about seventy-live per cent, of a potato, the 
remainder being starch, albumin, fat, sugar, cellulose 
and saline matter, or silicates of lime, magnesia, potash 
and soda — citrates, phosphates and pectates, solanine 
and asparagin. 

How are they affected by heat? Heat causes the 
starch grains to absorb tiaeir own moisture and in 
swelling burst their cell walls. 

Which is the more liealthful, baked or boiled 
potatoes? Baked potatoes are more wholesome, be- 
cause they are drier, as the starch has absorbed its 
own moisture, and even a part of that has been lost 
by evaporation, and they have parted with none of 
the potash salts, which are soluble in water. 

Why do old potatoes wilt after sprouting? Old 
potatoes wilt because they have parted with a portion 
of their starch and water, which has been used in the 
growth of the sprout. 

Which are the more nutritious, old or new potatoes ? 
Why ? Old potatoes, because they are fully developed. 

What is the nutritious principle of potatoes ? 
Starch. 

Why are potatoes heavy and sodden if not properly 
boiled? When the water is not hot enough to cause 
the starch grains to burst their cell walls by absorbing 
their own moisture in swelling, they are heavy, and 
sometimes potatoes after being boiled are allowed to 
stand and absorb the water in which they were boiled, 
which makes them sodden. 



96 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Is the juice of potatoes acid or alkaline? Acid. 

Give the proper methods for cooking potatoes. 
Baking, steaming, and boiling. 

In boiling potatoes should you use hard or soft 
water ? Soft water. Why ? Because it softens the 
cellulose. 

Why are fried potatoes indigestible ? Because tiie 
heat is so great as to toughen the outside cellulose, so 
the heat cannot properly cook the inside starcli, and 
the fat has been partly changed into an irritating aci<l. 

What are Jerusalem artichokes ? Tubercles of 
Helianthus tuierosus — one pf the sunflower family. 
They contain nitrogenous matter, cellulose, 
water, some sugar, fatty matter, pectic acid, pectine, 
mineral matter and inulin instead of starch. 

Describe the methods of cooking them. Boiled arid 
served with cream sauce. Parboiled and fried. Made 
into soup or hashes or pickled. Artichokes liave no 
particular nutrition, but are eaten for waste, or to 
dulute more concentrated food. 

Describe the chemical composition of beets ; turnips ; 
carrots; parsnips; salsity ; horseradish. They are 
watery vegetables, good for waste, and all contain 
water, nitrogenous matter, starch, sugar, and salts or 
mineral matter. Carrots contain some iron. Horse- 
radish contains a volatile sulphurized oil. Turnips 
contain iron acd potash, while tlie beet is characterized 
by the large amount of alkali in combination with an 
organic acid. Parsnips and carrots contain sonje fat. 

Give the proper methods of cooking each. Beets 
are boiled and sei'ved with cream sauce or pickled. 
Turnips are boiled and served with cream sauce or 
mashed. Carrots are stewed and served with cream 
sauce, pickled or used in soups. Parsnips are boiled, 
stewed, fried or made into fritters. Salsify is boiled, 
made into fritters or soup. Horseradish is used in 
sauces or as a salad, 

Do vegetables contain albumin and casein ? Yes, 

What is tho difference between vegetable and ani- 
mal ftljurajti m^ casein? They are obemically the 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKINa SGHOOL. 97 

same, but the vegetable casein is harder to digest than 
the animal casein. 

Give the names of all vegetables containing casein. 
Peas, beans, lentils and chickpeas. 

Give the chemical composition of the'onion. Water, 
uncrjstallizable sugar, gum, vegetable albumin, pectio 
and phosphoric acids, phosphate and carbonate of 
lime, iron, and a volatile oil containing sulphur. 

Give the different varieties of onions, and the best 
methods of cooking each. Silver skins, red or brown 
skins, and yellow skins. They can be boiled, stewed 
or baked. 

W hat are leeks ? chives ? garlic ? They are different 
members of the Allmm or Lily family. 

Give the diiference between a Spanish and an 
American onion. A real Spanish onion has' a dark- 
brown skin and is large and mild flavored. Though 
as large onions are raised iiere we usually speak of 
the American onion as being of medium size and of a 
decided flavor. 

How do you get onion juice ? To get the juice from 
an onion, cut the onion across the layers into two 
equal parts and give the freshly cut surface a twisting 
movement while pressing it against a grater. 

Of what vegetables clo we eat the leaves? Cab- 
bage, cress, lettuce, kale, endive, spinach, beets, tur- 
nips, chervil, mustard, chicory, dandelion, dock, sorrel, 
mint, chives, parsley, daisy, borage and peppergrass. 

Give the chemical composition of each and the best 
methods of preparing them. Cabbage, mustard, kale, 
turnip tops, chives and peppergrass contain a sulphur- 
ized oil. Spinach contains nitre. Lettuce contains 
nitre and a principle that acts on the system like 
opium. Sorrel contains tartaric acid and superoxalate 
of potash. Cress contains an essential oil, but no sul- 
phur combined with it. The sulphur is in another 
form. All contain water, albuminoids,- starch, gum, 
leaf green, fat, cellulose, and mineral matter. Lettuce, 
cress, chervil, mustard, borage, peppergrass, turnip 
topa, eadive, cliives, and sorrel are used ia salads, 



98 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

while parsley and mint are used to flavor various 
dishes. Cabbage, Icale, chicory, beet-tops, dandelion, 
spinach, daisy and dock leaves are boiled. 

What is the difference between watercress and 
peppergrass? In appearance and manner of growth 
tliey are very different. They both contain an essen- 
tial oil. In peppergrass sulphur is combined with the 
oil, but in tiie cress the sulphur is not so combined. 

Of what vegetables do we eat tlui stalks? liliu- 
barb, celery, angelica. Artichoke and beet stalks are 
called chard. 

Give the chemical composition of each and the best 
methods of preparing them. They contain water, 
cellulose, mineral matter, albumin, sugar, mucilage or 
gum. Stewing is the best method of preparing, though 
the stalks of angelica are often preserv^ed and used as 
a garnish. 

What is asparagus ? Edible shoots of a sea plant, 
Asparagus ojjicinalis, of the lily family. • 

Give its cljemical composition and the best methods 
of preparing it. Water, cellulose, malic acid, aspar- 
agine and mineral matter. It is usually boiled or 
stewed and served with cream sauce. 

Of wiiat vegetables do we eat the flowers? Cauli- 
flower, broccoli, French artichokes, hops and capers. 

Give the best method of preparing each. Cauli- 
flower, broccoli, French artichokes and hop buds are 
boiled and served with cream sauce. Capers are 
pickled. 

Tomato Soup with Stock. — In preparing tomato 
soup with stock we put one quart of stewed tomatoes 
with one pint of stock in a saucepan and added one bay 
leaf, one sprig of parsley, and one small onion cut in 
slices. When it had stewed fifteen minutes we pressed 
it through a sieve that was fine enough to keep out all 
the seeds. We put the tomato liquid in a clean sauce- 
pan and allowed it to boil. We rubbed one table- 
spoonful of butter with three level tablespoon fu Is of 
cornstarch or flour, and when smooth added it to tho 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 99 

boiling soup and did not stop stirring until it was all 
smooth. We added one teaspoonful of sugar, and 
after mixing one teaspoonful of salt with one-fourth of 
a teaspoonful of pepper also added it to the soup. 
"VVe then added one-fourth of a teaspoonful of baking 
soda and the soup was ready to be served at once with 
croutons. 

Oeoutons. — We made the croutons by cutting stale 
bread into thin slices and spreading them lightly 
with butter, which we rubbed in. After removing 
the crusts we cut the slices into dice-shaped blocks 
and toasted them a golden brown by placing them in 
a moderate 6ven. Croutons are good served with any 
thick soup. 

Tomato Sottp without Stock. — In, making tomato 
soup without stock we took one quart can of tomatoes 
— one quart of freshly stewed tomatoes would do as 
well. The very first thing we did was to cut one- 
fourth of a pound of ham into dice and to pan it with 
one onion cut into slices. When brown we put the 
ham and onion in a large saucepan, or small soup 
kettle, and added one quart of water, one bay leaf, one 
stalk of celery and one carrot, peeled and cut in slices. 
We allowed it to simmer for one hour and then added 
the tomatoes and let it simmer forty-live minutes 
longer. At the end of that time we pressed the toma- 
toes through a sieve and returned the soup to the fire. 
We rubbed two ounces of butter with four rounding 
tablespoonfuls of flour until smooth and added it to 
the boiling soup, stirring until smooth and the soup 
boiled again. We added one teaspoonful of salt, mixed 
with one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper, and tlior 
soup was ready to be served with croutons. 5 

TuEKisH Soup. — In preparing Turkish soup we added 
one-fourth of a cup of rice that had been looked over, 
and well rubbed in a dry cloth, to one quart of stock 
and allowed them to boil together for twenty minutes, 
then we pressed them through a sieve and put it on 
again to heat. We beat the yolks of two eggs to- 
gether and added one tablespoon ful of cream. We 



100 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 

added the eggs and cream to the rice and stirred it for 
about two minutes, but were very particular not to 
allow it to boil. We added one-half teaspoonful of 
salt and one-eighth of a teaspoonful of pepper and the 
soup was ready to be served. This soup is considered 
very good for lunch. 

A Cleak Yegetable Soup.— In preparing a clear 
vegetable soup we put one quart of boiling water in 
tlie soup kettle and added one small carrot and one 
turnip. We had peeled and cut all the vegetables 
with fiincy shaped tin cutters so the pieces would be 
of one size and there would be no small pieces to dis- 
solve and cloud the soup. When the carrot and turnip 
had boiled one hour, we added one sweet potato and 
one white potato cut in fancy shape, one cupful of 
peas, one cupful of beans, one tomato, one ear of corn 
and one tablespoonful of rice or barley. When all had 
boiled until tender we added two quarts of stock and 
salt and pepper to taste. We let it boil up once and it 
■was ready to be served . 

Black Bean Soup.^ — In preparing black bean soup 
we washed one pint of turtle beans in cold water and 
left them to soak until morning. We poured off the 
Avaterin which they had soaked and covered them with 
one quart of boiling water. When they had boiled 
until tender (about two hours), we added one quart of 
stock and one pint of boiling water. We pressed all 
through a sieve and put it in a clean kettle, and when 
it boiled we added salt and pepper to taste, and thick- 
ened it with one ounce of butter and one tablespoonful 
of flour rubbed together. We sliced two hard-boiled 
eggs and one lemon, which we placed in a tureen and 
poured the boiling soup over them. It was then served 
immediately. 

When wine is used, one gill of sherry is put in 
tlie tureen with the eggs and lemon before the soup is 
added. 

Ceeam of Potato Soup. — In making a cream of 
potato soup, after peeling four good sized potatoes we 
put them on to boil in one-quart of cold water. When 



THK WAT WE DID AT GOOEINa SCnOOL. 101 

half-done — in about fifteen minutes— we poured ofif that 
water, and covered tlieni with one pint of fresh boiling 
water, and added one bay leaf, one piece of onion as 
large as a silver quarter, one sprifj- of parsley and one 
stalk of celery, and boiled them until tiie potatoes were 
done; then we run them through a vegetable press or 
sieve. We had put one quart of milk on in a farina 
boiler and had rubbed two tablespoon fuls of flour with 
one of butter until smooth. When the milk was 
steaming hot we added the butter and flour and stirred 
until it thickened. We poured the thickened milk over 
the potatoes, added salt and pepper to taste and 
stirred until all was smooth. 

This soup was served at once, as it is not nice warmed 
over. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

YiEGiNiA Reed. 



I'll 



103 THE WAY Win BID AT COOKING SVEOOL. 



LETTER XII. 

December 20, 189-. 

My Dkae Cousin Alethea : The title of the next 
lecture was " Digestion of Starch." 

In connection with starch we begin the study of 
digestion. Starch is in plants in a granular form, and 
this form is different in eacli ]ilant, so far as the dif- 
ferent plants have been exauiined. Our commoa 
grains require very careful work to find the difference. 

Starch grains do not change their form if left in 
cold water, but wiil rot if tliey are in it long enough. 
If we boil the starch it becomes clear, and in its finer 
forms we have food. In this form it will digest. 
Starch never dissolves. Starch in itself is not taken 
up by the blood. It has to be prepared and changed 
by the alkaline secretions before it can be assimilated. 
Starch isj-eally the food supply of plants. Potato plants 
would not be so plentiful if they were not valuable as 
food. There is an agricultural ant in Texas that cul- 
tivates grain. 

The reason for cooking starch is that by so doing 
the granule is broken up and is more easily used by 
our system. Raw meat, however, is more readily di- 
gested than cooked. Whether the cell wall of starch 
is a woody fibre or only of material like the starch con- 
densed, it must be broken down before our systems can 
use the starch. 

All bacteria have forms, and are recognizable and 
capable of being described ; their walls are of woody 
fibre, but their contents are living and they beget their 
kind. The cells of starch do not possess life. Ferments 
are of two classes, organized and non-organized. Bac- 
teria belong to the organized class, and though living, 



TEE WAY WE DID AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 103' 

having infancy, maturity and old age, we do not know 
that they sre conscious. In the lowest orders of life 
it is hard to tell w here consciousness ceases. The non- 
organized class of ferments are without body and have 
no history like the bacteria. We can grow bacteria, 
but we cannot grow the non-organized ferments. Non- 
organized ferments are called enzymes or zymoses. 
Ase is the termination used to designate this class of 
ferments. Enzymes are found in both vegetables and 
animals. 

Diastase is the ferment found in malt. Synaptase 
is that found in the almond, wild cherry, apple, pear, 
peach and prune, in the Rose family. 

Pepsin is the ferment found in the stomach, while 
ptyalin is the one found in the. mouth. Invertase is 
the ferment of yeast. Amylopsin is one of the three 
ferments found in the secretion of the pancreas, and 
acts upon starch. All of them change certain sub- 
stances, and this change depends very much upon the 
taking up of water. Sullivan found that one part of 
invertase would act upon one hundred thousand grains 
of cane sugar and still be active. This dilutes, hence 
if we could remove the particles from the solution as 
formed it would probably go on forever. This in- 
volves the use of water. The ferment brings the sub- 
stance acted upon and the'water into such close con- 
tact that they unite or fuse together. 

The professor performed the experiment of convert- 
ing starch, that had been cooked, into sugar by the aid 
of pancreatic extract. The ferment, after causing 
certain portions of starch to unite so intimately with 
the water that the starch breaks down and forms 
sugar, leaves these portions and treats others in the 
same way tijl the whole mass is converted into sugar. 
This same process goes on in us, and when this sugar 
is formed the system is ready to absorb it. The sugar 
of milk seems to be the only sugar that enters the 
stomach that is ready at once to be assimilated. Ose 
is the termination used to indicate sugar. Maltose is 
a sugar, formed from starch by a ferment, while 
dextrose is a sugar formed by an acid. 



104 TEE WAT WE BID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

The test for boiled starch is iodine. The same test 
applied to maltose gives a momentary purplish tinge, 
on account of the dextrin present, and then shows a 
rich red wine color, which soon fades out, while the 
purple tint, or color rather, of the iodine on the starch 
does not fade out. Starcl) with sulplinric acid makes 
a different kind of sugar from that made with a 
ferment. 

Microbes, by secretion, produce ferments foreign to 
our bodies, and doubtless are the cause of many 
diseases, because our systems have not the power to 
expel these poisons. 

Of what veget<ables do we eat the fruit? Tomato, 
melon, okra, egg plant, raartynia, cucumber, pumpkin, 
vegetable marrow, and squash. 

Give their chemical composition and the best 
methods of prej)aring each. Tiiey are mostly made 
up of water and cellulose, with some sugar, mucilage, 
or gum, albumin and mineral matter. Tomatoes con- 
tain malic and citric acids and calomel, and also some 
solanine. The egg plant contains solanine. Tomatoes, 
pumpkins, vegetable marrow .and squash are stewed 
or baked. Okra is made into soup, stewed or pickled., 
Egg plant is fried and baked. Marty nias and cucum- 
bers are pickled. Melons are usually eaten uncooked, 
but are sometimes made into preserves or spiced 
piokles. 

What is sauerkraut? Cabbage that has been cut 
up and placed in laj'ers with salt between them and 
kept under pressure until it has fermented. It is 
cooked in its own liquor. 

What are chick peas? Chick peas are seeds of the 
Cicer arietinum, which are used mostly in Asia and 
Southern Europe. They are the smallest peas that 
grow and are cooked pods and all. 

What are lentils? Lentils are the seeds of the 
Ervum lens, and were known to the Hebrews in early 
times. The^' are between a pea and a bean in ap- 
pearance. 

What are Brussels sprouts ? Little caboages grow- 



THE WAT WE nil). AT COOKING BCEOOL. 105 

ing from tbe axils of the leaves on a variety of the 
cabbage family or JBrassica. 

What is kohl-rabi ? Turnip-rooted cabbage. 

"Whirt are mushrooms? Truffles? Morels? How 
can you distinguish the poisonous from the edible 
ones? Mushrooms are fungi. Truffles are under- 
ground fungi. Morels are an umbrella-shaped fungi. 
The poisonous mushrooms have an acrid taste, and if 
there should exude juice or milk when the mushroom 
is cut it is poisonous. 

What vegetable is more capable of sustaining life, 
weight for weight, than any other kind of food? 
Chick peas. 

Of what vegetables do we eat the seeds? Peas, 
beans and lentils. 

Give the chemical composition of each and the best 
methods of preparing them. They are composed of 
water, vegetable casein, fat, mineral matter, cellulose, 
starc-h mingled with legumen. They are best boiled 
and are also made into soup. 

From what is oil produced ? Oil is produced from 
vegetables and animals. 

Is there any ditference between vegetable and 
animal oil? If so, what is it? Animal and vegetable 
oils are chemically the same. Butter is the most easily 
digested of all known fats or oils. After butter the 
vegetable oils are more easily digested than any of 
the animal oils excepting cod-liver oil. 

What is the difference between oil and fat? Fat 
contains stearin, palmitin and olein, while oil contains 
only palmitin and olein. The stearin causes fat to 
.solidify more easily than oil. 

What is the difference between a fixed and a volatile 
oil ? A volatile oil evaporates, but a fixed oil remains 
wherever placed. 

What vegetables produce the most oil ? Palm nut, 
olives, Brazil nuts, almonds^ and peanuts. Of vegeta- 
bles proper, lentils, peas and beans contain the most, 
though fresh Scotch oatmeal find maize or corn contain 
more than the vegetables and less tiian the nuts, 



106 TUB WA Y WE DID A T COOKINO SCBOOL. 

"VVbab animals produce the most oil ? Hog, bear 
and opossum. 

How do oils dififer from other alimentary principles? 
They contain less oxygen and more carbon. 

Do oils produce muscle or heat ? Heat. 

What is said of the digestibility of oil ? It is hard 
to digest. 

What vegetables contain volatile oils? Onions, cel- 
ery, turnii)s, radishes, horseradish, watercress, and all 
the cabbage family. 

Describe the wheat grain. Give its chemical com- 
position and tlie processes of making it into flour. 
The grain of winter wheat is long and pointed, while 
the grain of spring wheat is plump and round at the 
ends. The wheat grain is composed of water, albu- 
minoids, chiefly flbrin and ^lutin, starch with a trace 
of dextrin, fat, cellulose, lignose, and mineral matter, 
Ther« are several modes of milling or grinding wheat, 
differing mainly.in the preponderance of one or other 
of the two actions of squeezing and cracking. By 
alternations in th.e distance between the stones or steel 
rollers, and by differences in the modes of scoring 
them, as well as in their direction and rate of motion, 
mill-products of different qualities are obtainable. 
Grain in " high-milling " is submitted to many re- 
grindings and boltings. 

How may the quality of flour be determined ? By 
making a paste of the flour with water. If the paste 
is very elastic and snaps with a noise the flour is good, 
because it contains a great deal of gluten. 

What is the indigestible portion of the wheat grain ? 
Why ? The outer covering, or bran, because it con- 
tains silica in such a flinty form that we cannot di- 
gest it. 

What articles of food are made from the glutinous 

Kart of wheat ? Macaroni, spighetti, vermicelli, and 
read. 

How does heat affect the starch cells of wheat? 
Heat causes the starch grains to swell and burst their 
cell walls, thereby making them more easy of digestion. 



TEM WAT WE DID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 107 

What causes the variations in flour? The differ- 
ence in tile growing of the wheat, the different pro- 
cesses of milling, and the length of time the fiour has 
been kept. 

Why is fine flour wliite and wlioie flour dark ? Fine 
flour is mostly starch, which is white, while whole 
flour contains all the elements of the grain excepting. 
the outer husk/ The gluten and cerealin, a principle 
which resembles diastase in being endowed with the 
power of converting starch into sugar, contribute very 
much to making the color darker. 

How does age affect flour? Flour becomes whiter 
with age, and the more glu'en it contains thf) sooner 
it spoils. The spoiling is caused by the cerealin in the 
gluten changing the starch into sugar, and if the heat 
is sufficient the sugar is changed into alcohol and then 
into vinegar. Flour should be kept cool and dry. 

Baked Rib of Beef with Yoekshiee Pudding ■ — In 
baking a rib of beef wo removed the ribs, roiled the 
meal,- fastened it securely with a string, and placed it 
in a baking pan. We dredged it lightly with pepper, 
and adding one feaspoonful of salt to one-third of a cup 
of boiling water, poured it into the pan. We basted 
it every ten minutes and baked it fifteen minutes to 
the pound. One hour before the meat was done we 
poured off nearly all the drippings from the meat into 
another paniand poured into it the pudding, made by 
beating three eggs, unseparated, until light and adding 
to them one pint of milk. We put six large table- 
spoonfuls of flour in a bowl and added gradually the 
milk and eggs, beating until smooth. We poured this 
pudding through a fine sieve into the pan of drippings, 
added one-half teaspoonful of salt and two dashes of 
pepper, then baked the padding one hour and cut it 
into squares and served it around the meat. 

Pot Roast of Beef. — In making a pot roast of 
beef wc trimmed and fastened securely into sha[)e 
a brisket of bepf and placed it in a heated kettle 
over th3 fii'e. V/licn one side browned we turned it 



108 TEE WAY WM DID AT COOKlNQ SCHOOL. 

and browned another. When the surface had been 
browned, we added one pint of boiling water, and 
putting a cover on the kettle left the meat to cook 
slowly fifteen minutes to every pound. We added 
one teaspoonful of salt when the meat was half done. 
We did not add any more water, because when that 
pint had evaporated there was enough fat rendered 
out to keep tha meat from burning while it finished 
cooking. We made a brov^n sauce to serve with the 
meat. 

Beown Sauce. — In making the brown sauce we re- 
moved all the drippings from the, kettle excepting two 
tablespoonfuls. We added two tablespoon fu Is of flour 
to the drippings in the kettle and mixed the two 
together until smooth and a dark-brown color. We 
then added one pint of stock, though hot water would 
do, and stirred until it boiled ; we seasoned this sauce 
with one teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. We strained the sauce through a tine 
sieve, and it was ready to-be served. 

Meat drippings should always be saved and clarified, 
and then they can be used in frying. 

Boiled Fish. — In preparing to boil a fish we first 
washed it well in cold water, and having wiped it dry 
we rubbed in a little salt. We then took a piece of 
cheesecloth large enough to cover the fish, and having 
put it around the fish, sewed the edges together so 
there would be but one thickness over the fish. We 
then put it in a fish kettle, covered it with boiling 
water, added one tablespoonful of salt and left it to 
simmer gently ten minutes to every pound. We took 
the fish from the water as soon as done, and having 
drained it, removed the cloth very carefully and 
turned it on to the platter. We garnished it with 
parsley and slices of lemon, and made a cream sauce 
to serve with it. 

This is the rule for boiling all kinds of fresh fish. 
When a fish kettle is not at hand tie the fish to a 
platter to keep it from being broken during the cook- 
ing, and place it in a large saucepan or other kettle. 



TSE WAY irs DID AT COOKING SGSOOL. 109 

CuUl boiled fisli can be used in making salads, 
croquettes or a la crimes. 

Ceeam Sauce. — The cream sauce for fish is made in 
the same proportion as for boile<l onions, and can he 
kept for a short time, if the saucepan containing' it is 
placed in a vessel of hot water. It must be stirred 
occasionally to keep a crust from forming on the top. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViEGiNiA Keed. 



110 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 



LETTEK XIII. 

December 22, 189-. 

My Deae Cousin Alethea : The next lecture in the 
order in which the}' were delivered had for its title 
" Starches and Ferments. " 

Freezing interferes with the action of ferments, but 
boiling kills them outright. Ferments do not have 
life like microbes. By chemicals we can produce 
changes analagous to those caused by ferments. One 
hundred degrees Fahrenheit has been found to be the 
best temperature for the actions of ferments. Liquids, 
by being either acid or alkaline, can control the ac- 
tion of ferments. For instance, pepsin acts in an acid, 
while the pancreatic secretion acts in an alkaline 
medium. We could control ferments by many other 
substances, only they are unfit for food, being poisons. 
Many, however, in single action have no recognizable 
influence. 

Those substances which when put in food have no 
immediate ill effects on our systems and yet have a 
restraming influence on the actions of ferments, are 
called antiseptic or antizymotic, because they act 
against the ferments. The two words, to be exact, 
liave a slight difference in meaning. Cold is an agent 
often employed to preserve the flavor of an article for 
a long time and, on account of keeping the flavor, is 
preferred to heat. Heat changes the flavor though it 
prevents the action of ferments. 

Modern discovery has taught us that creosote de- 
stroys microbes. Smoke has been used from early 
times as a preservative. It is tiie creosote in the 
smoke that gives it its antiseptic property. 

Drying is also resorted to, to prevent microbes from 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. m 

making their ferments, because a microbe to flourish 
must have moisture. 

Salt is fairly active as a microbe killer. Saltpeter 
is also used. Sulphuric acid is an excellent killer of 
microbes, but being so poisonous we cannot use it on 
food or it would kill us too. Salicylic acid is another 
])o\verful antiseptic. It does not kill the microbe, but 
it holds it in check. Borax and boric acid also act as 
restraining agents. 

Sulphur fumes, oxide of sulphur, kills microbes. 
Certain compounds are used, but being fixed solids, 
sulphites, they are not so active as the fumes. To re- 
view, sulphite of lime, sulphite of soda and smoke are 
antiseptic. 

Cold, salicylic acid, borax, boric acid, sulphites and 
drying are restraining agents. 

By being subjected to long-continued action of 
cold they might die, but boiling water is the best killer 
of the microbe and its action, and is the most rapid 
way to destroy them, except by poisons. 

By certain strong acids, sulphuric for instance, 
starch is made into glucose, a sugar not the same as 
that made by the stomach, for that is maltose. The 
ose or sugar and starch group are characterized by 
strong likeness, and are essential in their nature to 
alcohol. They are complex, yet none contain nitro- 
gen, so cannot form tissue, and by themselves cannot 
sustain life. They are, however, very susceptible to 
the action of microbes. 

It Is generally the palate and not our systems that 
call for the sweets. They contain the three elements, 
carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The hydrogen and 
oxygen are in the same proportion to each other as in 
water — two of hydrogen to one of oxygen. It is not 
water in sugar, but in the amount to form water. 

The starches when converted into sugars form three 
groups — the Amyloses, the Sucroses and the Glucoses. 
To the first grou]> belong starch and dextrin, having 
the same composition but different arrangement. - To 
the second group belong cane sugar or sucrose, lactose, 



112 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 

maltose and tuoBkose. To the third group belong 
dextrose and levulose. The first and second groups 
can be changed to the third, but the third cannot be 
changed to either the lirst or the second. 

We tasted saccharine, a substitute for sugar made 
from coal tar. One grain of it is said to produce as 
much sweetness as three hundred grains of cane 
sugar. I did not like it. It was too sweet. 

What is farina ? Farina is a granulated form of the 
inner portion of the finest wheat grain. 

Give the best method of making white bread. 
Scald one pint of sweet milk and pour it into a mixing 
bowl containing two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of salt. When 
the milk is lukewarm, add one cake of compressed 
yeast dissolved in two tablespoon fuls of lukewarm 
water, or one-half cup of liquid yeast, and sufficient 
flour to make a thick batter. Beat thoroughly, stand 
the bowl in a bread raiser partly filled with warm 
water, put on the cover, let it stand until the batter is 
liglit, and then add flour enough to enable you to 
knead the dough until it is smooth and elastic, and 
does not sticli to the hands or board. Be careful not 
to use too much flour, as that would make the bread 
hard and dry. Put it back in the bowl and that in 
tlie bread raiser until it becomes light and doubles its 
bulk. Turn the dough out on the pastry board, and 
having divided the dough, mould it lightly into loaves 
and place the loaves in well-greased pans. Having 
stood the pans in a warm pkce until the loaves are 
light, bake them in a moderately quick oven for three- 
quarters of an liour. The length of time required for 
the baking depends somewhat on the size of the loaf. 
A Vienna loaf requires thirty minutes while a square 
loiif requires one liour. 

Wliat constitutes the perfect loaf? A loaf to be 
perfect must be elastic and have no odor of the yeast. 
It must be raised uniformlv without nny large cavi- 
ties, and while the shape of the loaf is symmetrical, it 
must be completely baked without overbaking the 
outside, and it must have a sweet taste.- 



THE WA T WE DID AT aOOEINO SCHOOL. 113 

Besides good flour and water, or milk, what other 
element is necessary for bread ? Yeast or salt. 

"What is yeast? Yeast is a plant of the fungus 
family. It partakes of the nature of an animal in 
that it changes the elements before feeding on them. 

Give the best method of making yeast, and keeping 
it. Pare four good-sized potatoes, grate them, and 
put them as soon as grated into one quart of boiling 
water, and stir over the fire for live minutes. Ee- 
move from the stove and add one-half cupful of sugar 
and two tablespoonfuls of salt. When lukewarm add 
one cupful of good yeast. Cover and let it ferment 
for three or four hours. After stirring it down, cover 
closely, or bottle it and keep it in a cold place, but 
not where it could freeze. 

Why do you use potatoes for yeast ? Because the 
potatoes are peculiarly adapted to aid the growth of 
the yeast plant. 

To increase the growth of j'east, must you scald or 
freeze it ? If so, why ? Do neither, or you will kill 
the yeast plant. 

Can any other ferments be used in making bread ? 
If so, describe them. Leaven, which is dough that 
has soured, and salt added to a batter of flour and 
water and kept warm until decomposition begins. 

Give a recipe for salt-rising bread. To one pint of 
scalding water and one-half teaspoonful of salt add 
enough flour to make a thick batter, which must be 
beaten until smooth and full of air-bubbles. Cover 
closely after placing the bowl in the bread raiser 
partly filled with warm water. Keep in a warm place 
several hours, or over night. When tlie batter is very 
light scald one pint of milk, and when it is lukewarm 
add one teaspoonful of salt and enough flour to make 
a batter that will drop, not pour. Into this batter 
pour the one that has grown so light. Beat thoroughly 
for three minutes and stand it again in the closely 
covered bread raiser until light, which will be in about 
two hours. When liglit add flour enough to make a 
dough, which must be kneaded until smooth and 



114 THE WAT WE DID AT GOOEINa SCHOOL. 

elastic. Divide it into loaves, and having moulded 
them, place them in. well-greased pans. Cover closely, 
and when light bake them one hour in a moderate 
oven (360" Fahr.). 

What is leaven ? Dough which has been allowed 
to ferment and turn sour when used to start fermenta- 
tion in other dough is called leaven. 

Why does bread made with leaven have an acid 
flavor? The acid flavor is partly caused by the acid 
of the leaven itself and partly by the sour or lactic 
fermentation which it induces in the dough. 

Which is the best and most healthy ferment for 
daily bread ? High yeast ; that is, yeast of quick 
growth. 

In what temperature should the sponge be kept? 
From 68° to T2° Fahr. 

Why must it be thoroughly beaten ? To make the 
gluten elastic and the dough. white. 

About what amount of liquid will moisten four quarts 
of. flour? About two quarts for whole wheat flour, 
and about three pints for spring wheat flour as now 
milled. About one quart for winter wheat flour and 
about two and two-thirds quarts for gluten flour. 

What may be added to make it hold more water ? 
Boiled rice, potatoes and salt. 

Why is dough elastic ? The elasticity of dough is 
caused by the tenacity of the gluten. 

Why do we knead bread ? Describe the whole pro- 
cess. The purpose of kneading is to intermingle the 
water with the flour so as to combine with and 
hydrate the starch, to dissolve the sugar and albumin, 
and to moisten the minute particles of dry gluten, so 
as to cause tliem to cement together and thus bind the 
whole into a coherent mass. 

Why are the hands the best instruments for this 
purpose ? The hands are best because by them you 
can tell when all the lumps have been removed. 

ilow do you know when to cease kneading ? When 
you can knead it on an unfloured dry board without 
its sticking, and it feels perfectly smooth. 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 115 

What makes the dough rise ? The liberation of a 
gas throughout the glutenous dough. 

What is moulding? Moulding is the shaping of the 
dough iato forms for baking. 

How can you tell when bread is ready for baking? 
Bread is ready to be baked when it has doubled its 
bulk and feels light. 

At what temperature should the oven be ? At about 
360° Fahr. when the breau goes in. It is the moderate 
heat before browning tliat gives a soft crnst. 

How can an oven be tested without a thermometer? 
The baker's method is to throw flour on the floor of 
the oven — if it browns quiclcly without burning the 
heat is right. 

How long should bread be baked ? A Vienna loaf 
requires thirty minutes and a square loaf requires one 
hour. 

What is the difference between the crust and the 
crumb, and what causes the difference ? The crumb is 
cooked by aqueous vapor, the temperature not rising 
above 212°. The crust is baked by the heat of the 
oven falling upon the surface of the loaf, causing first 
the rapid evaporation of its water and then producing 
a disorganization of the dough. The starch grains 
are ruptured and some of them are converted into 
dextrin and sugar, and if the heat is too intense the 
sugar is changed into caramel, which is bitter. 

How do you determine when the bread is done ? 
Bread properly baked when rapped on the bottom 
should sound hollow, should not tick loudly, and should 
feel light. - 

Why should bread be exposed to the air after it is 
removed from the baking pans? So that it would cool 
oflf quickly. The brown products of the roasting 
process attract moisture, so that the crust becomes 
softer. 

How should bread be cared for after it becomes 
cold? It should bo placed in a dry tin box, free from 
crumbs and stale bread. It should not be covered 
with a cloth or ]);iper, bat should have the box closed 
by its own tin I'nh 



116 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. I 

Why does fermentation take place more quickly in 
brown bread than in white ? It is on account of the 
presence of the cerealin, or the natural ferment of the 
wheat, being present. 

Trussing and Baking Poultry. — The poultry sold 
in the market here has been bled to death and has had 
the feathers removed. In trussing and baking poultry 
the first thing we did was to singe the fowl by holding 
and turning it over a small alcohol lamp, then we 
placed it on a tiiick board, and with one stroke of a 
cleaver cut off the head. We placed the fowl on its 
back, witli the feet toward us, carefully cut the skin 
at the lirst joint, and with a skewer pulled out the 
tendons found above the joint, and then separated the 
bones by pressing the feet down and back. By so 
tloing a sheath containing several tendons is exposed 
to view. This sheath we carefully cut through and 
drew out the tendons. In drawing the tendons, hold 
t!ie leg with the left hand, pressing it back toward the 
boily, and having slipped the skewer under the tendon 
pull it out with the right hand. When done we had 
ten shining white tendons dangling from each foot. 
We then grasped the fowl firmTy by the skin of the 
neck with the left hand, and with the right cut the 
skin down, lengthwise, the back of the neck. We sep- 
arated the skin from the ■neck, drew it down over the 
breast, and took out the crop without breaking it. 
We placed the fowl again on the thick block and cut 
the neck off close to the bod}'. We did not cut off 
any more of the skin, because we wanted the skin to 
cover the place where the neck had been, and so keep 
the dressing in. We cut a vent under the rump large 
enough to draw out all the entrails. We slipped one 
finger in at the neck opening and at the vent just 
made, carefully detached the entrails from the boay 
framework, and, taking hold of the gizzard with th« 
thumb and two fingers, \ve drew out all the internal 
organs without breaking any of them. We cut around 
the outer opening of the intestine, removed the oil 



THE WAT WB DID AT COOEINQ SCHOOL. \Xt 

sack from the top of the rump, and the drawing was 
complete. We wiped the fowl inside and out with a 
dampened towel, and it was ready to use. 

We were going to stuff the chfcken,,so we took one 
cupful of stale breadcrumbs, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
and salt and pepper to taste. We filled the space from 
which the crop was taken, folded the skin over, and 
fastened it to the back of tlie chicken with a trussing 
needle, and having put the remainder of the stuffing 
in the body of the chicken, we sewed up the vent. 
We placed the chicken on its back with the neck away 
from us; pushed the legs up under the skin, crossed 
them and fastened them with a stitch to the bone of 
the rump; turned the wings back, run the trussing 
needle through them and the body of the chicken and 
tied the cord, and then through the legs at the second 
joint and tied it tiglitly in order to keep the legs close 
to the body. We put two slices of bacon in the bot- 
tom of a baking pan, placed the chicken on them, and 
poured into the pan one-half cup of water containing 
one teaspoonful of salt. We baked it in a quick oven 
fiften minutes to every pound, basting it every ten 
minutes, at first with the water and then with its own 
drippings. Fifteen minutes before it was done -we 
basted the breast. with buttei and dredged it witli 
flour. When done we removed the strings, placed 
the chicken on a heated platter' and garnished it with 
parsley. 

GiBLET Sauce. — We made a sauce from the giblets 
to serve with the chicken. The giblets consist of the 
neck, heart, liver, and gizzard. We cut the heart open 
in order to remove the clotted blood, cut off tiie 
outer coat of the gizzard and left'the inner lining con- 
taining the sand unbroken to be thrown away, and cut 
the liver away from the gall-bag. We put the giblets, 
covered with cold water, over a raodera,te fire and left 
tiiem to simmer while the chicken was being roasted. 
We added one tablespoonful of flour to tJje drippings 
in the pan in which the cliicken v.'as roasted, and 



118 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

stirred it until brown, then added one cup of the liquid 
in which the giblets were boiled, stirring continuousl}' 
until it boiled. We added the giblets chopped fine, 
and one-half teaspoonf ul of salt and one-eighth teaspoon- 
fal of pepper, and it was ready to be poured into a 
boat and served. 

Stewed Chicken. — In preparing a chicken for stew- 
ing we drew it as for baking and then cut it into 
eleven pieces. We took the legs from the body, 
separated them at the second joint, and then removed 
the wings. We cut through the ribs on each side, un- 
jointed the back from the breast, and cut the breast 
in two pieces lengthwise; unjointed the back and cut 
the lower back into two pieces ; put the chicken in a 
stewpan, partly covered it witli boiling water and 
left it to simmer until tender — from two to two and 
one-half hours if old, or about one hour and a quarter 
if young. When about half done we added one tea- 
spoonful of salt. When done we removed it to a 
heated dish, placing the neck piece, heart, liver and 
gizzard with the pieces of the back in the center of 
the dish, and the two pieces of the breast on top of 
them. We placed the second joints on one side of the 
plate, and the legs crossed on the other, with a wing 
at each end of the platter. We poured over all a 
sauce made by moistening two tablespoonfuls of flour 
with a little cold water and then stirring it into the 
liquid in which the chicken had been boiled. We 
stirred constantly until it boiled and then added one- 
fourth of a pint of cream and salt and pepper to taste. 
We removed it from the fire, added the beaten 
yolk of one egg and poured the sauce over the 
chicken, which was ready to be served at once. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

YiEGiNiA Eeed. 



TEE WAT WE DID AT OOOKING SCHOOL. 119 



LETTEE XIV. 

December 27, 189-. 

My Deae Cousin Alethea: 1 returned yesterday 
frcm a pleasant visit with the married member of our 
class. Some weelvs ago she invited me to visit her as 
soon as school was out and stay until after Christmas. 
I had been dreading vacation and wondering what to 
do during the two whole weeks, so you may know the 
invitation was gladly accepted, ller home is about 
twenty minutes' ride by steam from the city. She 
lives in a large, quaint-looking house built of stone. 
The view is fine, and to the west the ground slopes 
down to a thickly wooded ravine. I had the pleasure 
of helping decorate the Christmas-tree for tlie chil- 
dren. She has four — two boys and two girls — very 
lovable children. Her mother and others also were 
there. Seeing so many around, and the colored 
servants moving about so quietly, made me think of 
the many changes that have come to us since the days 
when we were little children. 

In coming back I could not help feeling thankful 
that I had more notes to write out for you, because it 
is so decidedly lonesome staying in a large city witli- 
out having something special that you can do. 

The professor spoke next about the nature of 
sugars, and their relation to each other, and also 
about tiie relation between starch and sugar. 
Sugars and starches are divided into three sub-groups: 
Amyloses, Glucoses and Saccharoses. 

Starcii is readily converted into sugar, either by a 
ferment or by a dilute acid, but the sugar formed by 
a ferment acting on tlje starch is called mnltoso, while 
that formed by the dilute aci<i \j, called glucose. The 
two beiong to dili'crent groups. 



120 THE WAT WB DID A T COOKlNa SCHOOL. 

By heat, starch is converted into dextrin. This is 
the variety of gum used on postage stamps and 
envelopes. 

The change of cane sugar to glucose is accompanied 
by the taking up of water, which is caused by the 
ferment acting as an intermediate body between the 
two. Maltose is formed by two particles of starch 
taking up one of water. Glueose is formed by starcli 
(CjHioOs) taking up one of water (H2O). 

Maltose and cane sugar have antiseptic properties, 
because they make such a thick syrup microbes cannot 
get in it, as has been tested by the preserving of 
fruits. A dilute syrup after a while gives off gas, and 
has alcohol in it, and by adding yeast vou could in- 
crease their formation. We usually call the forma- 
tion of gas and alcohol, fermentation ; there are, how- 
ever, several steps in the change. When yeast is 
added to cane sugar, the cane sugar- does not directly 
furnish the alcohol and gas. 

In mead, root beer and spruce beer there is from 
one-half to two per cent, of alcohol. That made at 
home is usually made just to have a sparkling drink — 
the gas gives that effect. 

Yeast is not a microbe, but 
belongs to the fungus family of 
vegetable life. Yeast requires 
air, moisture and a warm tempera- 
ture to increase rapidly. Yeast secretes a ferment, 
analagousto the ptyalin of the mouth, called invertase. 

One grain of invertase has the power to change one 
hundred thousand grains of cane sugar into two kinds 
of glucose Avhich are in equal parts. When ninety-five 
pounds of cane sugar take up five pounds of water 
there would be fifty pounds dextrose and fifty pounds 
of levulose in the one hundred pounds of glucose. 

"When a solution of sugar is seen tlirough tourmaline 
lens it sometimes requires the lens to be twisted to 
the right and sometimes to the left in order to see 
plainly. Those tiiat require the Ions to rotate to the 




TUM WAir WM DID AT COOKtNQ SCHOOL. Ui 

right are called right-handed sugars, and are marked 
+, while those which cause the rotation to bo made 
in the opposite direction are ctiiled left-handed sugars 
and are marked — . 

In glucose formed from cane sugar there is a rigiit- 
handed and a left-handed sugar, as the names dextrose 
and levulose indicate. Levulose is sweeter than dex- 
trose. The left-lianded sugar has greater power to 
twister rotate the rays of the polarized liglit than the 
right-handed sugar, taking ounce for ounce, so, instead 
of the + neutralizing the effect of the — , the rays of 
light are rotated somewhat to the left, and the sugar 
is called an inverted sugar. It is from this fact that 
the ferment which causes this is called invertase. 

We derive no levulose from starch, and cane sugar 
must be decomposed before it is formed from it. Cane 
sugar and starch both have to be digested before t-hey 
can be assimilated either by us or by animals. The 
professor could not say that glucose is wholesome, but 
thought it stood in the same relation to sugar that 
slate does to coal. 

Commercial glucose made from starch by a dilute 
acid contains as much dextrin as dextrose, and also 
some water, but no levulose. 

As soon as dextrose and levulose are made by yeast, 
it begins to feed upon them, and produces alcohol and 
carbon dioxid. The action is similar to that m our 
systems. We throw them out through our lungs. 

When cane sugar is changed by dilute acid into 
dextrose and levulose its action stops. 

When yeast has converted cane sugar into dextrose 
and levulose, it proceeds to feed upon them, unless 
stopped by a mild antiseptic, such as ihymol. There 
is no known ferment that acts upon lactose or sugar 
of milk. It can be absorbed at once and is the only 
thing that should be added to condensed milk. Con- 
densing milk changes all the elements in the milk. 

One of our teachers said she had found Howell's 
condensed milk to be the best of all she had tried. 
She also said that, a doctor told imt more stomachs 
had been ruined by glucose than by rum. 



123 tBE WAT We did Af COOEtm SCHOOL. 

What is rye? Describe tiie f^ruin, and give its 
cheruioal composition. Rye is Seoale cereale, one of 
the Oramineos or grass family. The grain is smaller 
and thinner than wlieat. Rye is composed of water, 
fibrin, gluten, albumin, starch, gum, fatty matter, 
sugar, cellulose and mineral matter. 

How may its quality be compared with tliat of 
wheat? Rye ranks next to wheat. It contains more 
mineral matter than wheat, and its gluten is more 
nearly like that of wheat than any of tlie other 
grains. 

Give the proper method of making rye bread. Set 
a, sponge with one pint of scalded milk, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of butter, one cake of com- 
pressed yeast, or one-half cup of liquid yeast, and 
wheat flour enough to make a thick batter. When 
the sponge is liglit add rye flour to make a soft dough. 
Knead gently and mould into two loaves; put them 
into greased pans, and when light bake one hour in a 
moderate oven. Rye does not require the dough to 
be made up so stiff as for white bread, neither does it 
require so much kneading. 

Why is the method so entirely different from that 
of wheat bread? Because the nitrogenous principle 
of rye is not so tenacious as the gluten of wheat. 

What is corn ? Name the different kinds, and give 
their chemical composition. Corn is Zea Mays of the 
family of grasses. The different kinds are white, 
yellow, Egyptian or Mexican, red and popcorn. The 
yellow grows in the North, and contains more oil and 
nitrogenous matter than the white, which grows in 
the South. All contain water, starch, dextrin, fatty 
matter, cellulose, nitrogenous and mineral matter. 

Give best methods of preparing green corn. After 
removing the husks and silk place in boiling water, 
and after the water boils again, boil rapidly for five 
minutes. Serve immediately ; or, after removing the 
outer green husks, place in boiling water, and alter it 
begins to boil, boil rapidly for ten minutes. Drain, 



2'H£! WAT WE DID A 'i' COCKING SCHOOL. 123 

and after pulling the silk from the end of the cob, 
serve in the husks. 

Why ,wiU corn meal not make loaf bread ? Because 
it lacks the tenacious principle of the gluten. 

What is samp? Hominy? Hominy is the ^'yhole 
graim of corn divested of its skin and germinal eye. 
Samp is hominy that has been broken up. 

Hovv are they prepared ? The grain is deprived of 
its hull and germinal eye by being soaked in an alkali 
and then washed thoroughly to remove all taste of the 
alkali. 

Why does corn meal spoil quickly ? Because the ex- 
cessive amount of oily matter which it contains has 
such an attraction for the oxygen of the air. 

What is the difiference between white and yellow 
corn meal ? The yellow meal contains more oily and 
nitrogenous matter than the white. 

Give recipe and example for a good corn bread. 
Louisiana corn bread is excellent. It is made of one 
and one-half cups of corn meal, one and one-half cups 
of corn flour, one-half cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two 
eggs, one tablespoon ful of butter, and enough sweet 
milk to make a thin batter. It is baked in a shallow 
pan for thirty minutes. 

What is mush ? Give recipe for making it. Mush 
is a porridge made from maize meal. It is made by 
stirring meal into boiling salted water until the meal 
floats. Stir it well and remove the vessel to that part 
of the stove where its contents will simmer for two 
hours. Do not stir again or it will stick. 

Describe the oats grain, and give its chemical com- 
position. The oat grain is the longest and slimmest of 
any of the cereals. It contains water, starch, gum, 
oil, cellulose and mineral matter, and also a nitrogenous 
principle allied to casein, called avenin. 

How does it compare in point of nutritive value 
with other grains. It is highly nutritive. Some re- 
gard it as more nutritive than wheat; others place it 
next to wheat, because the wiieat is so much more 
easily digested. 



o 



tU TEM WAt wn Dtn A T CnOEtNG SCBOOL. 

Give recipe for oatmeal musli. To boiling salted 
water add one-sixth as miicli oatmeal as there is water 
and let it boil for two hours, though simmering in a 
farina boiler for twenty-four hours improves it. 

What is groats ? When the oat grain is deprived of 
its outer husk and cuticle it is called groats. When 
these are crushed or broken they are called Embden 
groats. 

Describe the rice grain and give its chemical com- 
position. It is not so long and slim as oats nor so short 
and plump as wheat. It contains starch, sugar, gum, 
fatty matter, nitrogenous and mineral matter, lignin, 
cellulose and water. 

What is said of its digestibility ? It is easy to digest 
because it contains such a small amount of cellulose. 
Plain boiled rice digests in one hour. 

What is the proper method of boiling it ? Sprinkle 
the rice into rapidly boiling soft water. Keep the 
water boiling rapidly for twenty minutes. Drain 
the rice in a colander and stand it in the oven to dry. 

What is barley ? Pearl barley ? Barley is Hordeum 
vulgare of the family of grasses.' The grain is shorter 
and broader than wheat. Pearl barley is the grain 
deprived of the husk and rounded and polished by 
attrition. 

For what is pearl barley generally used ? In gruels 
and soups and in making barley water for the sick. It 
is particularly valuable on account of its diastase in 
preparing predigested food, in malt, or as an aid to our 
digestion. 

Describe the buckwheat grain, and give its chemical 
composition. Each grain has three faces, and each 
face is triangular. It belongs to the PolygonacecB, 
or buckwheat family, and its name means beech wheat. 
It contains starch, gum, sugar, fatty matter, cellulose, 
mineral and nitrogenous matter and water. 

Give the proper method for making buckwheat 
cakes. Add one teaspoonful of salt and three and 
three-quarters cups ot buckwheat to one quart of cold 
water in a stone jar ; beat until smooth ; then add one- 



THE WA T WB DID A T COOKING 8GEO0L. 125 

half cake of compressed 3'east dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls of lukewarm water. Mix well and cover the 
jar closely and stand it where it will keep moderately 
warm until morning. In the morning improve the 
flavor by adding one-half teaspo,onful of soda or saler- 
atus dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 
Beat thoroughly and bake on a hot griddle. One cup- 
ful of this batter may be used to start or Jigiiten the 
cakes for the next day, instead of yeast, and so continue 
all the winter. 

Quick cakes may be made by using one and three- 
fourths cups of buckwheat flour, one-half teaspoonCul 
of salt, one pint of water, one tablespoonful of New 
Orleans molassesand one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 

Perhaps you would like to compare the composition 
of the various cereal grains* in a dry state, so I will 
copy the table as given by Payen : 



Composition. 



Nitrogenou- matter. 

Starch 

Dextrin, etc 

Cellulose 

Fatty matter 

Mineral matter 

Totals 



Hard 


Hard 


Hard 


Semi- hard 


Wheat. 


Wheat. 


Wheat. 


Wheat. 


Venezuela 


Africa. 


Taganrog. 


Brie. 


22!75 


19.50 


20.00 


15.25 


58.62 


65.07 


63.80 


70.05 


9.50 


7.60 


8.00 


7.00 


3.50 


3.00 


3.10 


S.OO 


2.61 


S.12 


2.25 


1.95 


3.02 


2.71 


2.85 


i75 


100.00 


100.00 


100.00 


100.00 



White or 

Soft 
Wheat. 
Tuzelle. 



12.65 
76.51 
6.05 
2.80 
1.87 
2.12 

lOO.OOt 



Composition. 



Nitrogenous matter. 

Starch 

Dextrin, etc 

Cellulose 

Fatty matter 

Mineral matter 

Totals 



Rye. 


Barley. 


Oats. 


Maize. 


12.50 


12.96 


14.39 


12.50 


64.65 


66.43 


60. .W 


67.55 


14.90 


10.00 


9.25 


400 


3.10 


4.75 


7 06 


5.90 


2.25 


2.76 


5.60 


8.80 


2.60 


3.10 


3.25 


1.25- 


100.00 


100.00 


100. oot 


100.00 



Rice. 



7..M 
88.65 
1.00 
1.10 
0.80 
0.90 



100.00 



•In an ordinary State grain contains from \\% to 18/Sof water. 

+ Deviation from correct total; possibly an error in the amount of starch, 

% Deviation from the correct total of -f 0.04. 



126 SE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

To Peepaee and Boil Tjkipe.— In preparins tripe to 
boil we scraped it until it was white and clean. It 
had been scalded with boilinof water until the inside 
coating had been loosened and scraped off and washed 
through several boiling waters, and then soaked in 
cold water over night. "We covered it with cold water 
and added one onion sliced, one sprig of parsley, 
twelve whole cloves, and twelve peppercorns. We 
placed it where it would simmer for six hours, and at 
the end of that time it was read^' to be used in any 
way preferred. 

Stewed Teipe. — In preparing stewed tripe we cut 
one pound of the honeycomb and one pound of the 
plain into pieces half an inch wide and one and 
one-half inches long. We cut two ounces of ham 
into small cubes, and having put it in a saucepan we 
added one slice of onion, one bay leaf and one sprig 
of parsley, and stirred it over the lire until a nice 
brown, and then mixed through it one tablespoonful 
of flour and added one pint of milk, stirring conlinu- 
ousl}' until it boiled. We added the tripe, and salt 
and pepper to taste, and let it simmer gently for five 
minutes. We took out tiie onion, parsley and bay 
leaf, and it was ready to be dished and served. 

Saute Fish — In preparing fish for sauteing we 
washed the tisli and removed the scales, trimmed the 
tins, took out the gills, and then wiped it dry. We 
put four tablespoonfuls of drippings into a sautepan, 
and when hot put in the fish, which we had dredged 
with flour, salt and pepper. When one side had 
browned we turned it and browned the other. When 
done we removed it carefully to a heated platter and 
garnished it with parsley. 

Bass, bluefish, porgies, flounders, weak fisli and 
herring are good prepared in this way. Fish are usu- 
ally drawn before we receive them. 

Kidney Saute. — In preparing kidneys for sauteing 
we split the kidneys lengthwise into two equal parts, 
removed the fat and sinews from the inside, and then 
cut the kidney into small pieces. We put two table- 



TEE WAY WE DID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 137 

spoonfuls of butter in a fning-pan, and when melted 
we added one small onion cut into slices and the kid- 
ney. We stirred it for three minutes over a brisk fire, 
then stirred in one tablespoonful of f]our, tiien added 
one-half cup of water or stock, and one gill of sherr}', 
and also salt and pepper to taste. "We stirred it about 
one minute after adding the salt and pepper. It should 
be served immediately. 

In all our stirring we use a wooden spoon. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

Virginia Eeed. 



128 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 



LETTER XV. 

December 29, 189- 
Mt Dear Cousin Alethea : The professor's next 
lecture had for its title " Fermentation." 

Starch can be converted by a ferment into maltose 
and by a dilute acid into glucose. Both are sugars, 
but in the glucose the starch undergoing the change 
has taken up one particle of water, while in the forma- 
tion of maltose two particles of starch have taken up 
one particle of water. Cane sugar when acted upon 
by yeast makes equal quantities of dextrose and levu- 
lose. Unless the activity of the yeast is checked it 
will proceed to feed upon the dextrose and levulose. 
This true feeding is called fermentation. The stage 
of converting the cane sugar into dextrose and levulose 
is a purely chemical action, and is simply called fer- 
ment action. The yeast lives on the nitrogenous prin- 
ciples found in its food. The j'east plant in feeding is 
like any other living organism — it expels excreta, 
which in this case is in the form of alcohol and carbon 
dioxid. Since the growing of the plant depends on 
nitrogen and phosphorus, we can deprive it of th^m, 
and if we stop its growing we would prevent the 
formation of alcohol. If we were to permit the forma- 
tion of alcohol the yeast would in time be killed by it, 
because the excreta of any organism acts as a poison 
to that organism. Of course the ferment of yeast is 
like other organisms in respect to the fact that if it 
exhausts all the food where it is, it will live on the 
matter stored within itself, and then if allowed to 
stand longer will die of starvation. 

After alcohol has been formed, if the percentage is 
high it will act as a preservative; but a duute 



THE WAT WS BID AT COUElNa SCHOOL. 139 

alcoholic liquid will turn sour if exposed to the air. 
This fourth stage is the production of acetic acid or 
vinegar from alcohol. Pure alcoliol and water will 
not sour, and nothing can live in it. The Hebrews 
and Egyptians long ages ago knew that gas escaped 
in alcoholic fermentation and thought that it was a 
spontaneous change, but they did not know all about 
it. Now it is known that the only intervention of 
living organism in the process is in the ferinent, knock- 
ing the glucose so to pieces that (GjHeO) alcohol 
and (CO2) carbon dioxid are formed, and tliis with 
tiie first two steps take place without direct action of 
air. Air is, however, necessary to the formation of 
acetic acid. Oxygen of the air removes two of the 
hydrogen to form water and one of oxygen slips in to 
till its place. All sparkling liquids are bottled before 
this action is complete. 

OeH,A=2 (C2H.O+CO2), 02H6O-H2+0=CjT-IA or 
acetic acid. 

The professor showed us some yeast cells under the 
microscope? Yeast cells are of different varieties in 
the same yeast. Hansen was the first to pick out cer- 
tain forms and thus grow special crops. Certain kinds 
produce alcohol, others glycerin, and others gum, all 
from the same sugar. These different kinds made brew- 
ing very uncertain. They now grow some that thrive 
best at the top of the liquid, and others which do best 
at the bottom of the vat, so now they can control the 
action in brewing. The one that thrives best of all is 
the alcoholic yeast plant. 

The culture of the pure yeast plant is, indeed, a 
great advancement in science. 

There are other ferments which produce an effect 
very similar to that of yeast. There is a bacillus 
which acts on milk sugar, producing lactic acid. 
Common yeast cannot ordinarily act on milk, but 
under certain conditions it can produce an alcoholic 
conditionj as in koumiss. Yeast being a mixture of 
plants at certain temperatures, we grow certain 
ferments, and so have different actions produced. 
Koumiss is an intoxicating^ beverage. 



130 THE WAY WB DID AT COOKING SVBOOL. 

Yinegar is the acetic acid produced from alcoholic 
fermentation when diluted with water. When there 
is five per cent, of the acetic acid present, tlie liquid 
has a sour taste, without irritating properties. Com- 
mercial acetic acid is made by evaporating the acid 
until its strength has increased to sometimes as liigh 
as one hunch'ed per cent. When the _ ercentage of 
the acetic acid present is so higli, it solidifies in the 
cold. 

In making vinegar in large quantities they use a 
tank with a false top and bottom, and fill the inter- 
vening space with beech wood shavings. A dilute 
form of alcohol, made from an infusion of malt, 
trickles down through the false top over the shavings. 
Air is admitted from above and below. The tank is 
somewhat like a chimney in regard to the heat within 
it. The beech wood serves best for the living or- 
ganisms, which flourish in these shavings. The air 
is necessary to bring out the sour liquid, and some- 
times two vats are used, so that the whole is con- 
verted. 

The burning of a blue flame at the mouth of a test 
tube containing a heated liquid is a sure proof of the 
presence of alcohol. As low as one per cent, has been 
detected in this way. Of course, vinegar may contain 
a very little alcohol. 

The laws are very particular about the making of 
vinegar. Barley infused in water with a ferment, and 
the addition of hops, would make beer, but witliout 
the hops it would make alcohol and water. It must 
be very dilute if it is turned into vinegar. It should 
never run higher than about twenty per cent, and be 
changed into vinegar as fast as produced, in the same 
establishment, if they would avoid a heavy tax. This 
is a colorless liquid. Many demand a malt vinegar, 
so they color it with caramel. Some States forbid 
the coloring of vinegar, so they use a scorched malt. 

A cheap vinegar is sometimes made from a little 
sulphuric acid and clear water. 

In making charcoal from wood, tar and gas and a 



THE WAT WE BID AT GOOKINO SCHOOL, 131 

notable quantity of acetic acid is also made. T-his 
acid lias a tarry odor and is called pyroligneous acid, 
but by careful treatment the pure acetic acid can be 
obtained from it. It is colorless and is called vinegar 
extract, and wliea diluted makes what is called white 
wine vinegar, though, of course, it is not the pure 
white wine vinegar. Though these may be bogus, the 
acetic acid is real acetic acid. The malt infusion is 
made bj' spreading out the malt on the floor and 
heating it to kill the ferment. Though the malt is 
started with barley, they often add rice to it. 

What are fruits ? Fruits are the edible, succulent 
portions surrounding the seeds, and are used as des- 
serts. 

What fruits are most commonly used as articles of 
diet? Apples, grapes, oranges, peaches, pears, plums, 
quinces, apricots, cherries, currants, olives, dates, 
lemons, limes, pomegranates, pineapples, figs, bananas, 
nectarines, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, 
gooseberries, cranberries, mulberries, bilberries, shad- 
dock, citrons and melons. 

What is said of the nutrition of fruits ? They con- 
tain very little nutrition and are eaten chiefly for 
their salts and acids. Some fruits are ninety-five per 
cent, water. 

Why are fruits useful as foods? Fruits are useful 
on account of the salts and acids they contain, and 
for their tonic action on the system. Their acids tend 
to liquefy the blood. 

Which is the most important of our native fruits? 
Apples were formerly the most important ; now grapes 
and oranges are in as great demand. *. 

Are apples important as regular diet? Yes; they^ 
are regarded as brain clearers on account of the salts'' 
they contain. The skin should be removed before 
eating. 

Are fruits usually cooked or eaten raw ? About as 
many are eaten one way as the other. They are 
wiioiesome when raw, but are more easily digested 
when cooked, 



132 THE WA Y WE DID A T VOOKINQ SCHOOL. 

What are compotes? Compotes are composed of 
fruits |)repared ia a syrup, the pieces of fruit being 
kept whole. 

Give recipe for makino; apple sauce from fresh 
apples ; from dried apples. Pare, core and slice six 
tart apples, and put them in a porcelain or granite 
kettle with one-half cup of water. Cook until tender, 
run them through a vegetable press, add sugar and 
nutmeg to taste, and a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut. Dried apple sauce is prepared in the same 
way after they have been soaked several hours, or 
over night, in water. 

What is the best method of stewing prunes ? Dried 
peaches? Wash the prunes tlioroughly ia cold water, 
co\'er with water, and let them stand several hours, or 
over niujht. Add suo-ar and simmer until tender. 
Kemove the prunes carefully before they burst, and 
boil the syrup for ten minutes and pour over the 
prunes. Dried peaclies are stewed in precisely the 
same way. 

How do you bake apples? Wipe and core the 
apples, and bake them till tender. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 

Give method for fruit dumplings. Make a biscuit 
dough. Eoll out enough dough to cover the fruit 
and seasoning, which you put in the center, and cover 
witii the dough. Bake or steam the dumplings. 

What is vegetable jelly 'or pectin? Pectin is a 
somewhat gummy substance found in fruits, and 
corresponds to gelatin in meat and isinglass in fish. 
It, coagulates when the heat is right, though it generally 
requires the addition of sugar. 

What is fruit jam ? It is fruit that has been cooked 
with sugar until it is so condensed that the fruit has 
lost all of its natural form. 

Why do fruit jellies, if boiled too long, lose their 
gelatinous properties? Evaporation has destroyed 
the properties of the pectin. 

VVliat is tiie dilference between evaporated and 
dried fruits? Evaporated fruit is thiit dried by steam 



THE WAT WK DID AT OOOKING SCHOOL. 133 

heat, and is often blanched by sulphur, while dried 
fruit is that dried in the open air or in an oven. 

With what are fruit jellies usually adulterated? 
Tapioca. Grass seeds are used in the so-called straw- 
berry jam. Coal-tar products are used to impart 
various colors. 

Give the chemical composition of milk. Oil, casein, 
albumin, globulin, sugar, salts and water. 

"What is said of its nutrition and digestibility? It 
lacks iron from being a perfect food for an adult., and 
when taken properly it digests in about two hours. 

What IS the fatty matter of milk? Cream, which 
consists of minute globules of oil diffused through the 
liquid. 

Which" is the most nutritious, skimmed or whole 
milk? Whole milk. 

At what temperature does milk boil? 213° Fah- 
renheit. 

What' is the acid of milk ? Lactic acid. 

What is sugar of milk? Lactose, a true sugar, and 
the only sugar our system assimilates without 
digesting. 

What is the difference between raw and boiled 
milk ? Boiled milk is much harder to digest than raw 
milk, because the nitrogenous parts are toughened by 
heating. 

What is casein ? The cheesy principle of milk. 

What forms the thin skin covering boiled milk? 
Kapid evaporation of water from some of the particles 
of casein causes the casein to form a thin covering 
over the top of boiled milk. 

Is it necessary for milk to boil for cooking purposes ? 
No. 

'Which is more healthful, sweet or sour milk ? 
Sweet milk for the child, and sour for the adult. In 
sour milk lactic acid has already acted on the curd 
and divided it into small particles. 

Wliat is koumiss and how is it rnade? Koumiss is 
a spirituous liquor prepared from milk by scalding one 
quart of sweet railk and adding one tablespoonful of 



134 TEE WAT WIS Din AT COOKING SOHOOL. 

sugar that lias been boiled with one tablespoonful of 
water. When at blood iieat add one-sixth of a cake 
of compressed yeast. Stand in a warm place twelve 
hours, and then in a cold place as long, in a bottle 
turned on its side. 

What is said of its digestil)ility ? It is ver^ easy to" 
digest. 

Give full directions for making butter. Warm the 
cream to a temperature of 56'^ or 5S° Fahr., and it 
will not take long to churn it. After churning collect 
the butter, remove it to a bowl and stantl it where 
it will be very cold for a short time. Work it thor- 
oughly for five minutes, then add two even teaspoon- 
f uls of fine salt to each pound of butter, and then work 
until all the buttermilk is out. Make into Tolls oif 
prints and stand in a cold phice. 

Why does it become rancid ? Because of the pres- 
ence of nitrogenous principles which are used as food 
by microbes. 

How do you clarify butter? Melt the butter in a 
farina boiler and pour off the upper part which is 
clear. The French always clarify their butter for 
cakes, because they think it creams and keeps better. 

What is oleomargarine ? Butterine ? Animal olein 
and palmitin churned with sweet milk, to which has 
been added coloring matter. 

How ma}' you determine the difference between false 
and true butter ? By heating it. True butter melts 
quietly, foams and retains the foam, and browns 
quickly, while the false butter makes more noise in 
melting and does not foam, though a few large bubbles 
form, which soon disappear, leaving an orange-colored 
liquid that smells like lard ; or, if caustic soda is added 
to true butter when melted, it will give an odor like 
pineapple. 

. What is bonny clabber? Whole milk that has 
soured and in which the curd has not separated from 
the whey. 

What is schraierkase? Cottage cheese, or the curd 
or qlabber from sour milk. 



THE WAT WD DID AT COOKING SGHOOL. 135 

How is it prepared ? Schmierkase is prepared by- 
heating sour inilli or clabber until all the whey is sep- 
arated thoroughly from the curd by draining, and 
pepper, salt and cream then added to'the curd; after 
mixing well it is ready to be used. 

What is cheese? Cheese is the curd of milk con- 
densed under pressure. 

What may be said of its nutrition and digestibility ? 
Cheese is very nutritious for those who can digest it. 
It is so concentrated that it is very hard to digest. 

When should uncooked cheese bo eaten ? " At the 
close of a meal. 

Which is more easily digested, cooked or uncooked 
cheese ? Cooked. 

Give four popular methods of cooking cheese. Welsh 
rarebit, cheese ramakins, cheese and macaroni, toasted 
cheese or Scotch rarebit. 

Cecils. — In preparing cecils we run two cupfuls of 
cold cooked beef through the meat cutter and put it 
in a frying-pan together with two tablespoon fuls of 
bread crumbs, one ounce of butter, one teaspoon ful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of onion juice, one- Fourth of a 
grated nutmeg, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and two 
dashes of pepper, and stirred it over tlie fire until 
thoroughly hot. We turned it out on a large platter 
and spread it out so as to make it cool more quickly. 
When cold we formed it into balls about as large as 
walnuts, and dipped the balls first into a beaten egg to 
which had been added one tablespoonful of boiling 
water, and tlien covered it witii bread crumbs. When 
all of it had been formed into balls and dipped in 
crumbs we placed a few of the balls in a wire frying- 
basket and placed the basket in oil which was steam- 
ing hot, it having been on the stove heating slowly for 
some time, A good way to test the heat of the oil is 
to drop into it a small piece of stale bread ; if it 
browns quickly the heat is right. When the balls 
were brown enough we drained the basket, placed it 
on a piate, lifted out the bulls and put them on apiecQ 



136 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

of brown paper on a plate, and fried the rest. These 
cecils were served on a heated plate with Bechamel 
sauce. 

Bechamel Sauce. — We made the Be'chamel sauce by 
melting, without browning, one tablespoonful of butter 
in a saucepan and then mixing with it one tablespoon- 
ful of flour; when smooth we added one-half cup of 
stock and one-half cup of cream, stirring constantly 
until it boiled. We removed it from the fire and 
added one-half teaspoonful of salt, two dashes of pepper, 
and the well-beaten yolk of one egg. One dasii of 
pepper means three shakes of a pepper-box whose top 
is about as largo as a silver quarter. Bechamel sauce 
is considered very nice with baked or boiled fish, cut- 
lets, sweetbreads, or chicken. 

Codfish Balls. — In preparing codfish balls we. 
picked enough salt codfish into small pieces to fill 
two cups ; we soaked the codfish for half an hour in 
cold water, and after draining it well, covered it with 
boiling water and let it stand on the back part of the 
stove for fifteen minutes. We drained and pressed 
out all the water and mixed with the fish two cupfuls 
of well-beaten maShed potatoes, one ounce of butter, 
one-fourth of a cup of cream and one-fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and beat it well together. We 
formed it into balls, dipped them in beaten egg, 
rolled them in crumbs and fried them the same as the 
cecils. 

French Fried Potatoes. — In preparing French fried 
potatoes we pared the potatoes and let them stand in 
cold water for an hoar. We cut the potatoes in thick 
slices or blocks lengthwise, dried them quickly with a 
towel and dropped them into the heated oil. When 
done we put tliem in a colander and placed the colan- 
der on a tin pan and slipped it into the oven, leaving 
the door open so they would keep warm until all were 
fried. When all were done we sprinkled them with 
salt and turned them into a heated dish. They should 
be served at once. When cut with a vegetable spoon 
thev are used as a garnish for either baked or boiled 
fish". 



TBB WAT WE T)ID AT COOKING BGUOOL. 137 

Beef Croquettes.-— In preparing beef croquettes we 
put one-hiilf pint of cream or milk on in a farina boiler, 
and when scalding liot we stirred into it one ounce ol 
butter rubbed smooth with two large tablespoon fuls of 
flour, and stirred until it was very thick. We removed 
it from the fire and added one pint of finely chopped 
cooked beef, one large tables])oonful of chopped parsley, 
one teaspoonful of onion juice, one teaspoon ful of salt, 
one-fourth of a nutmeg grated, and cayenne and pep- 
per to taste. Mix well together and pour out on a 
large platter to cool. When cold and hard we formed 
itinto cone-shaped croquettes. We tried moulds, which 
are made for the purpose of shaping them, but decided 
we could shape them about as well with our hands. 
We dipped the croquettes in the beaten egg and then 
in the bread crumbs and fried them the same as the 
cecils. Before serving, we stuck a small sprig of 
parsle}' in the apex of each cone. If all the fried crO' 
quettes are not eaten they can be warmed over by 
putting them on soft paper and standing them in the 
oven a few minutes. 

Feied Oystees. — In preparing oysters for frying we 
drained them in a colander and wiped eacli one dry 
with soft linen or an old napkin, handling them care- 
fully with our fingers, never with a fork, and seasoned 
them on both sides with salt and cayenne. We beat 
an egg and added one tables})oonful of boiling water 
to it. (The egg had not been separated.) We dipped 
each oyster in bread crumbs, then in the egg, and laid 
it again on the bed of bread crumbs; after covering it 
completely with the crunibs we pressed it lightly with 
our hand, and then taking the oyster up in our lingers 
shook.it very gently so as to remove the loose crumbs. 
We spread them in a cool place, where they did not 
touch each other. They can bo prei)arcd an hodr or 
two before frying them. When the oil was hot, or at 
about 365° Fahr., v.-e put six oysters in the frying- 
basket and placed it in the oil, and when they were a 
golden brown we lifted them out of the oil, placed 
them on a soft piece of brown paper and then renioved 



138 THE WAT WE DID AT GOOKING SCHOOL. 

them to a heated dish. They must be served at once, 
as they are not so good when kept warm. Pickles of 
some kind should always be served with oysters, 
though, of course, in another dish. 

Care OF Oil AFTER Fkying. — When through frying 
for that meal tiie oil should be drawn to the coolest 
part of tlie stove, and when it has cooled somewhat it 
should be drained through a very line sieve into a 
clean vessel. Jt is in that way deprived of all sediment 
and kept in a lit condition for further use. When 
cold cover it closely. ' 

Your affectionate cousin, 

Virginia Reed. 



TH£J WAT WM DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. ]39 



LETTER XVI. 

December 31, 189-. 
My Dear Cousin Aletiiea : The lust few days be- 
fore school was out tne usual routine was decidedlv 
broken up. For two luornings a young woman froiii 
Syria came in and pre|):ired some Syrian dishe-s. Tlie 
first thing she did was to inake and bake Thread. Jt 
was very interesting to watcii iier. She was not more 
than five feet tall, if that, and very plump. She was 
well dressed and had several bracelets on each arm ; 
the bracelets were fastened on, so could not be re- 
moved. We would have thought them very annoying 
when making bread. SJie, however, did not seem to 
mind their falling about her hands. Slie said she had 
worn them many years, so, of course, was accustomed 
to them. 

Syrian Bjiead. — The young woman put one pound 
of flour in a bowl and added one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of salt. With one-half of a cake of compressed 
yeast she made a biscuit of leaven by dissolving the 
3'east in one tablespoonful of lulvewarm water and 
adding about two tablespoonfuls of flour — eno'igh to 
make a very soft biscuit. This little biscuit was put 
in a quart jar of warm water, and when it came to the 
surface, in about five minutes, it was added to the flour 
and salt in the bowl, and- a little more water was added 
so she could knead it, but it was verystiS. She placed 
the bowl on the floor, knelt down by it, and 
kneaded away until the dough was smooth. The bowl 
containing the dough was placed in the bread raiser to 
grow light. When liglit she took a small portion and 
pressed it flat on the breadboard, pressing it with the 



140 THE WAT WE DTD A I' COOKING SCHOOL. 

fingers, but leaving it thickest in the center. "When 
she had pressed it out as large as a plate she tossed it 
from hand to hand. When it had stretched out so as 
to become translucent, she put it on a pad or pillow 
and stretched out the edges. Then she grasped the 
pad firmly underneath and inverted it over the stove, 
leaving the bread dough in a thin sheet on the top of 
the stove. They prefer the bread un browned, so she 
began at once to loosen it and it was done. It tasted 
good and was so translucent that it made me think of 
rice paper. 

Other small portions of the dough she allowed to 
grow somewhat lighter, and then baked them in a 
quick oven, so that thev puflfed up and were hollow 
like an empty box. These they fill with olives, dates, 
figs or cheese when taking a journey. 

Cabbage Rolls (Malisliey Malfouf). — She prepared 
cabbage rolls, though the name she gave them soum led 
like Mahshey Malfouf. She used one and one-half 
pounds of lean mutton and one-half pound of fat cut 
into small blocks, one cup of uncooked rice, one tea- 
spoonful of powdered cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt, and one-half teaspoonful of pepper. All these in- 
gredients she mixed well together, and then took a 
tablespoonful of the mixture, rolled it up in a cabbage 
leaf and tied it with a string. The cabUage leaves, 
had been separated from the head, parboiled, Mud 
the coarse part of the mainribs cut out. The bones 
from the mutton and the ribs from the leaves weie 
put on the bottom of the kettle and the cabbage rolls 
placed on them. One root of garlic was cut up and 
scattered over, and the juice of one lemon, though she 
said two would be better, was poured over the whole, 
and a dinner-plate turned upside down was placed on 
the cabbajje, and all was nearly covered with boiling 
water and left to simmer for about two hours. The 
strings were removed before serving. 

They do not like beef and think mutton is more 
heathful. They never serve meat in a large piece, but 
use two knives to cut it fine or else beat it, 



THE wAy wji did at gookwq school. i41 

Syrian Hash {Kabab). — She prepared a hash which 
she called Kabab, using three-quarters of a pound of 
mutton cut fine, one heaping tabiespoonful of chopped 
parsley, one onion chopped fine, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, one tabiespoonful of flour, one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoon Tiil 
of pepper, and about one-fourth of a cupful of finely 
chopped almonds were added. All the ingredients 
were mixed well togetlier and formed into cakes, 
which were placed in a baking pan, and one-third of a 
quart can of tomato juice poured over thera, and the 
pan put in the oven for thirty mmutes, or until done. 
Of course the length of time would depend somewhat 
on the tenderness of the meat. 

Sometimes they chop pine nuts or almonds very 
fine and place them in the center of each cake, or tlie 
pine nuts are very good with chicken, prepared as 
above, with the tomato sauce. 

Sweets {Mddmoul). — The young woman from Syria 
also prepared some of their sweets. For the one slie 
called Maamoul she used one pound of sheep's butter 
(if cow's butter were used it would have to be clari- 
fied), two pounds of farina and a little flour so it 
could be worked, one-half teaspoonful of soda and 
three tablespaonfuls of Avater. She worked it well to- 
gether, then took a piece as large as a hen's egg and 
holding it in one hand she made a hole- in it with a 
finger of her other hand, and by turning and pressing 
she made the hollow space grow larger until the out- 
side of the piece was almost as large as a goose egg. 
The hollow space is to contain a filling rriade of one 
cupful of finely chopped almonds and one-half cupful 
of sugar, flavored with extract of rose. She poured 
orange-fl.ower water over all and mixed it together, 
and after tilling the cavities she pressed the edges to- 
gether, shaped it with her hands, and then ornamented 
it with various designs. The quantity given made 
six cakes. She baked them in a quick oven and left 
them in the pan until cold. She sprinkled them with 
sugar as soon as she took them out of the oven, and 



142 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKm'J SCHOOL. 



when slie served them she drenched them with orange- 
flower water. 

Sweets {Orayhee). — The other sweet she prepared 
she called Gray bee. For it she used four and one half 
ounces of sheep's , butter, four and one-half ounces 
of flour, as much sugar as you like, and one half 



teaspoonfnl of soda. The butter and 
creamed together and 



orange-flower water was 



were 
use'd 



for flavoring. When all was mixed together, she 
moulded it in various shapes, using almonds to rep- 




resent scales and peppercorns for eyes. She baked 
them in a quick oven. 

Fondant. — We spent a few days in making candies. 
We put one pound of the best granulated sugar in a 
granite saucepan and added three-fourths of a cup of 
boiling water and stirred it with a wooden spoon until 
the sugar dissolved, but not any longer We have to 
be verv particular in making fondant or the syrup 
will granulate. We dipped a sponge or cloth in ice 
water and wiped off the crystals that had formed on 
the sides of the pan, because if they should fall into 
the liquid they would cause granulation. We were 
careful not to jar the pan for the same reason. We 
wiped the crystals off several times in the six minutes. 
When the syrup had boiled about six minutes, we 
tested it by putting two fingers in ice water until very 
cold and then pluriging them quickly into the boiling 
syrup and back at once into the ice water. When the 
syrup adhering to the fingers forms a soft ball, we 
poured the syrup out on a lightly greased marble- 
topped table, and did not scrape the saucepan, as that 
might cause it to granulate. If we had not had such 
a table we would have used a large meat platter. We 
had to test the syrup several times before it was ready 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 143 

to take off, but we were very careful not to stir the 
svrup. In testing the syrup we worked rapidly, be- 
cause the. syrup passes quickly from one stage to 
another. When tiie syrup on the tabic had cooled so 
we could stick a linger in it, we stirred it rapidly 
with a wooden paddle till it formed a creiimy tiiick 
mass, and when it began to crumble we kneaded it 
with our hands exactly as we would bread dough, and 
then put it m a bowl and covered it with a damp 
cloth. 

When kneaded it should soon become smooth and 
soft ; if it remains lumpy it has boiled too long. If it 
seems too soft — liquid — it has not boiled long enough, 
but will do to use for, dipping purposes. 

To ensure success inmaking candy, never boil but 
one pound at a time, and never attempt that on a 
rainy or damp day. 

The next morning we made a variety of candies 
from this fondant by taking off small pieces from tlie 
mass of fondant and kneading a different flavoring 
into each piece. 

English Walnut Ceeams. — In making English 
walnut creams we took pieces of vanilla flavored fon- 
diint about as large as a common marble and pressed 
the half of a walnut on opposite sides of each piece, 
and then patted down tiie edges of the fondant so 
that they would look finished. We placed them on a 
plate to harden. 

Ckeam Dates. — We made cream dates by taking 
the seed out of the date at one side, putting in its 
]>lace a little roll of the vanilla fondant, and pressing 
the edges so only a line of the candy could be seen, we 
rolled the dates in gianulated sugar. 

Cream Cherries. — Cream cherries we made in the 
same manner as cream dates. For them we used 
candied cherries and vanilla fondant. 

Neapolitan Cream Blocks. — We made some 
Neapolitan cream blocks by using three pieces of 
fondant. One was white with vanilla flavoring, 
unolher had the grated rind of an orange added, and 



144 THE WAT WE DID AT COO KINO SCHOOL. 

tlie other had enough cocoa added to give it a brown 
color. We rolled each piece untd lialf an inch thick, 
and placed the chocolate on tiie vanilla, and the 
orange on top of the chocolate, and rolled . them two 
or three times with a roiling pin. When inclined to 
stick we used confectioners' A.XX sugar to dust witli. 
We trimmed the edges of the three layers and cut all 
of it into diamond-shaped pieces. 

Oranges Glaces. — In making oranges glaces we 
first peeled the oranges very carefully, taking off 
ever}' particle of the white skin, and separated the 
car])els and put them on tin plates, which we placed 
where the skin of the carpels would soon dry. Wo 
then put one pound of sugar in a saucepan with 
h;ilf a pint of water and stirred until the sugar was 
dissolved. We wrung the sponge out of cold water, and 
wipeil the steam and crystals from the inside of sauce- 
pan. When tiie bubbles that formed on the syrup 
began to look tough, we added two tablespbonfuls of 
vinegar to keep the syrup from granulating. AVe 
tested this syrup by holding^two fingers in a basin of 
ice water until very cold, and then plunging them 
quickly into tiie boiling syrup, and then back again 
into the ice water. When the sugar- was stiff and 
brittle, and came off from the lingers easily, we 
watched carefully, and the moment it began to turn 
we took it from the fire and placed the saucepan in a 
basin of hot water on the table, and began to dip the 
orange carpels one at a time into the syrup and then 
placed tiiein on oiled paper. 

Geape and Cherry Glaces. — We dipped grapes 
into the syrup prepared for the oranges. We had 
first cut each grape from the bunch, leaving as long a 
stem as possible. The same syrup is used for cherries 
glaces. Cherries nre very easily dipped, because 
their stems are so long. 

If the syrup becomes too cold it can be reheated 
twice. 

Never attempt to glace on a damp day. 

Cbeam Cnocoi..\iE§. — In making cream chocolates 



THE WAY WE DID AI COOKING SVIIOOL. 145 

we first worked one teaspoonful of vanilla sugar into 
one-half pound of fondant and formed it into balls the 
size of a marble, or into small pyramids, and stood 
them on oiled paper in a cool, dry place to harden for 
three or four hours. We melted one-half pound of 
unsweetened chocolate or cocoa in a small double 
boiler, and when melted we added an equal quantity 
of melted fondant. If the two together are too thick 
for a smooth covering, add one teaspoonful of vanilla 
and a little hot water one drop at a time until it is the 
proper thickness. In melting fondant we placed it in 
a small saucepan, which we placed in a vessel contain- 
ing boiling water and stirred constantly until it was 
the consistency of thick cream. We added this melted 
fondant to the chocolate in the double boiler and left 
it in the double boiler, which we placed on the table. 
We brushed the candy dipper with butter and with 
the left hand dropped the pyramids of fondant into 
the chocolate fondant and took them out quickly with 
the dipper, scraping it against the side of the boiler so 
as to remove any extra amount of covering, and 
placed it on the oiled paper, giving it the little twist 
or curl on top like those you buy. 

If, however, a darker, glossy covering was desired, 
we melted bakers' chocolate and added sugar to 
sweeten, and vanilla extract to flavor, and dipped the 
balls or pyramids in it. 

If the fondant cools before the dipping is completed, 
it can be reheated, but must be stirred all the time. 
When it was first placed on the table it might have 
had a lighted alcohol lamp placed under it, and in_that 
way have been kept at the same temperature until the 
dipping was completed. 

The professor's last lecture was on " Oils and Fats." 
In the first place there are several classes of bodies 
called oils and fats. The volatile oils are those which 
give the peculiarity to perfumes and flavors. A 
volatile oil which gives an agreeable perfume or flavor 
jnay be chemically the same, as ouq which gives a dig- 



146 THE WA Y WE DID A T COOKING SCHOOL. 

agreeable odor. Indeed tlie volatile oil of some articles 
of the vegetable kingdom is at lirst offensive, but after 
a time we become so accustomed to it that we dnaily 
grow fond of the things containing it. Volatile oil 
leaves no permanent greasy stain. Such oils are also 
called essential oils, because they are the part for 
which we use the plants. These oils are divided into 
two divisions, one containing sulfur and the other con- 
taining no sulfur. These oils are a compound of car- 
bon and hydrogen, with or without sulfur. People 
have to become accustomed to sulfureted oils. 

The essential oil of the rose, orange, etc, contain 
carbon and hydrogen only, and have no food value, so 
little of them is taken, and when taken in large or 
concentrated doses they prove to be poisonous. 

Fats and oils are different from the volatile oils and 
are very abundant in both the animal and the 
vegetable kingdoms. Fats are oils that become solid 
at common temperature. Waxes are not exactly 
identical with oils and fats. They are indigestible, so 
we do not eat them. Fats and oils are fixed oils be- 
cause they leave a permanent stain which gathers dust 
and dirt; Fixed oils and fats are food products. 

About 1810 a Frenchman named Chevreul published 
a paper which brought up our chemical knowledge of 
this subject almost to its present slate. Oils and fats 
are mixtures of several things which are nearly, but 
not exactly, alike. Suet contains three, and, indeed, 
each of the oils as we know them has two or more in 
it. All become solid when kept on ice, and all become 
liquid when the heat is increased. Olein becomes 
liquid at a low temperature ; pnlmitin is obtained from 
the palm and is ordinarily solid ; stearin is solid in 
animal fat; butyrin is liquid in butter; caproin and 
caprylin have an odor like animals. Margarin is a 
solid of a pearly luster, and is an artificial product 
made in the laboratory. So when we combine two or 
three of these oils we obtain an article whose consist- 
ency depends on the quantity of the different oils used. 
Suet when solid contains olein, palmitin and stearin. 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 147 

Heat the suet by steam to a certain temperature, draw 
off the liquid and cool to a certain degree, and we have 
oleo-oil, and after churning it with miik it is called 
oleomargarine. Tlie stearin left is made into candles. 
At first the olein and stearin were dechicted by them- 
selves, but instead of obtaining the paJraitin pure, it 
had some of the stearin in it, and tliey named it 
margarine. That is tiie way imitation butter received 
its name oleomargarine. Nov,' margarine means some- 
thing else. 

Oleomargarine is not a good substitute for butter; 
indeed, butter is a peculiar fat and no other fat can 
take its place. Butter is secreted for food for the 
young animal just as the oil in tlie cotton seed or olive 
is stored up for the young plant. Fat of butter has 
tlie function of supplying food for tlie yountj animal 
and is eminently successful in tliat work. When the 
animal secreting the milk is treated or fed with the 
purpose of increasing the quantity of fat globules, the 
linings of the miik ducts, or epithelium pavement, 
undergoes a transformation. Tlie cells of this lining 
are composed of nitrogenous matter, and as these cells 
are ivorn out their places are iilled by others. In 
producing such unusual quantities of fat globules the 
lining undergoes a fatly degeneration similar to that 
of a fatty heart. The fat of butter is decidedly dif- 
ferent from all other fats and has no odor. Butter 
contains olein, palmitin, stearin, butyrin, caproin and 
caprylin. It is believed that the fats in butter are 
more closely associated than in any other one article. 

Butter is the most highly nutritive of all fatty foods, 
and also one of the most dangerous, on account of the 
disease germs it may contain. Milk is the only animal 
food we take in a rau' state. Butter made from 
scalded cream taken from pasture-fed cows is the most 
healthful. 

The professor expressed the belief that tuberculosis 
and other disease germs will in lime be under as good 
control us smallpox is at the present time. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

Virginia REEn. 



148 THE WAT WE DID AT UOOKINQ SCHOOL. 



LETTER XVII. 

January 11, 189- 

My Dear Cousin Alethea.: " Oleomargarin " was 
tlie title of the professor's lecture List week. 

Congress lias made a law by wliicli any substitute 
for butter, though it contain but one per cent, of 
oleomargarin, shall be called oleomargarin and be 
taxed as such. The name oleo-palmitin would have 
been more accurate, taking into consideration its com- 
position. 

"When it was first made lard was the fat used in 
couipounding it, now other fats are used in various 
ways. The professor thinks it is as much of a fraud 
as a counterfeit bill and should be dealt with as such, 
Pennsylvania and Iowa prohibit the sale of it, even 
though tlie United States laws require each package 
to be plainly marked. The ])rofessor tliinks it unsuit- 
able for food since it does not satisfy the appetite. 
Indeed, no fat has the same effect on the system as 
butter. It is not of advantage to the poor because it 
sells at the same price as true butter. 

Heat is t!ie usual test applied by the ordinary 
housekeeper to detect the genuineness of the article 
purcliased. True butter heats and foams and keeps 
t!ie foam. Oleomargarine makes more noise, does not 
foam, though it forms a few largo bubbles, which soon 
disappear. The stilt shows on top of an orange- tinged 
yellow oil which smells like lard. 

Clarified butter, or that whicli has been filtered, 
acts more like ol-^omargarinci, but tiie difference is 
easily detected by the following method : Boil butter 
with a solution of concentrated lye (made by dissolv- 
ing a piece the size of a cherry stone in alcohol). 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 149 

When you pour the solution into water the butter 
gives off the otlor of pineapple, while from the 
oleomargarin you only have the odor of alcohol. Of 
course there is a decided chemical difference between 
the two. 

The method of analvsis is to take about a thinil)lcful 
of the pure fat obtained by melting the sample and 
straining, or putting it in a filter which you stand in 
the oven till it all runs through, leaving the salt and 
residue in the Klter. Add a mixture of alcohol and 
soda to the fat and boil until it turns into soap. You 
have to go on boiling till all the alcohol has evaporated 
and the soap is dry. This required so much time that 
they devised another way in which, in five minutes, 
they could accomplish as much as they formerly did 
in two hours. In this way glycerol and soda are 
added to the pure fat, the mixture foams on account 
of the water present, and when it has boiled and the 
soap is done, they add cold water, drop by drop, till a 
certain amount has been added and it is all chilled; 
then they add a definite quantity of sulphuric acid 
and a piece of pumice stone the size of a common 
marble. The sulfuric acid decomposes the soap, 
which resolves it into oleic; palmitic, stearic, butyric 
and caproic acids. The presence of the butyric acid 
gives a strong odor of rancid butter. If the first three 
acids only are present the article was unquestionably 
oleoraargarin, but to detect the presence of butyric 
and caproic acids you subject the whole five to a pro- 
cess of distillation. If what distils into the glass is a 
decided acid it shows that it was butter, but if the acid 
is very faint it shows that oleomargarin was present, 
with a little butter. 

What is the chemical composition of eggs? The 
white contains water, albumin, mineral matter and a 
trace of sulphur. The yolk contains water, oil, a 
modified albumin cal!e<i vitelline, sulphur, phosphorus 
and mineral matter. The mineral matter of eggs is 
composed of phosphates of lime, potash, soda, 
magnesia and iron. 'The shell is chiefly composed of 
carbonate of lime. 



150 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKTNa SCHOOL. 

"What may be said of their nutrition and digestibil- 
ity ? They are very nutritious and easy of digestion 
when properly prepared. 

At what temperature does the albumin coagulate? 
One hundred and thirty degrees Fahrenheit. 

Give the proper method for soft-boiling an egg. 
Drop an egg that has been -standing in a warm room 
for some time into a vessel of boiling water, and draw 
the vessel to the coolest part of the stove and let it 
stand five minutes. Allow one pint of water to each 

egg- 

Which cooks more quicklv, the volk or the white? 
The yolk. 

How may you determine fresh eggs without break- 
ing them ? By putting the eggs in a vessel of water. 
The fresh ones sink to the bottom. 

Why does a good egg sometimes "rattle?" On 
.account of the presence of air within the shell. The 
quantity of air increases to take the place of the 
liquid of the egg which evaporates. 

Which is tile most nutritious, the yolk or the white? 
The yolk in hard-boiled eggs, because it is made mealy 
by the oil. In sofi-boiled eggs tlie white is the most 
nutritious. 

How is tlie nutrition of eggs compared to tliat of 
beef? Weight for weight eggs are much more nutri- 
tious than beef. 

What kind of eggs are usually employed for cooking 
purposes ? Eggs from domestic fowls. 

Why do eggs become lighter as they grow older? 
Because water is evaporated from the albumin and 
air enters and fills the space left within the siiell. 

How may eggs be preserv^ed during the winter sea- 
son ? By excluding the light and air, as by packing 
in salt, sawdust, bran or grain, in lime water, or by 
greasing or varnishing. 

Give the most wholesome ways of cooking eggs. 
Poached and soft-boiled. 

What is the proper method of poacliiiig an egg? 
Have ft stewpan two-thirds full of freshly boiling 



TUK WAY Wb! DID AT COOKING 8GH00L. 151 

water ; draw the pan to the edge of the stove and slip 
the egg, which you have broken on a saucer, into the 
water and continue to break the eggs in the saucer 
and slip them into the water until the bottom of the 
vessel is covered. Put the stewpan over a moderate 
tire, and when the water boils again the eggs will be 
done, with the yolk thinly veiled by the white. Take 
them up, trim off the ragged edges and serve. 

Give the names of lish in common use. Anchovy, 
bass, blue, cod, carp, cat, chub, halibut, haddock, her- 
ring, brill, perch, pike, pickerel, plaice, mackerel, 
muscalonge, shad, sole, smelt, sturgeon, salmon, 
sardines, sunfish, slieepshead, rock, ronch, turbot, trout, 
tarpon, white, whiting, flounder, weak, lamprey, eels, 
butter fish, porgies and tailor fisii. 

Give the chemical composition of fish. Water; 
nitrogenous matter, including albumin, creatin and 
fibrin ; fat, common salt, phosphates, potash salts and 
otiier mineral matter. 

What is said of its nutrition ? Tb.e flesh of fish 
does not possess the satisfying and stimulating prop- 
erties that belong to the flesh of quadrupeds or birds, 
still it is an important article of nourishment. 

At what season are fish best for food? During the 
summer. White fish are better in the winter and 
dark in the summer. 

How may you determine a fresh fish ? If the eyes 
are bright and the flesh is firm, and there is riot too 
slrong an odor, the fish is fresh. 

Wliat fish are best for boiling ? Broiling? Frying? 
Baking? Planking? For boiling use salmon, cod, had- 
<lock, rock and bass. For broiling use trout, blue, 
shad, halibut and mackerel. For frying use smelts, 
perch, cat, trout, halibut steaks and small fish gener- 
ally. For baking use shad, blue, white and rock fish. 
For planking use shad. 

Give the proper method for boiling, frying, baking 
and broiling fish. For boiling fish, clean, wipe and 
wrap in cloth, put iij boiling water containing a little 
salt and simmer ten minutes to the pound. For frying, 



152 THE WAT WE DID AT OOOKINO SGHOQZ. 

clean and wipe the fish, dip in egfj, then in bread 
crumbs and immerse in heated oil. For bakinjr, clean 
and wipe the fish, stuff with a dressing made of bread 
crumbs, butter, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. 
Dredge the outside of the fish with flour, salt and 
pepper, and bake it fifteen minutes to the pound, 
basting every ten minutes. For broiling, clean and 
wipe dry, place on an oiled broiler and broil with the 
skin side up until done, then turn and brown the skin. 

Do fish contain albumin? Yes. 

IIow is the nutrition of fish compared to that of 
beef? It is not so nutritive and its fibre is harder to 
digest. 

What causes the flesh of some fish to be white and 
that of others colored ? In the white fish the oil is 
stored in the liver and in the colored fish the oil is dis- 
tributed through the flesh, and the white have little 
blood with only a few red corpuscles. 

Give the proper method of washing fish. Wash 
quickly in cold water and keep tbera under the water 
while removing the scales. 

What effect does the moon have upon fish ? Why ? 
The moonlight causes the fish to spoil on account, of 
the attraction it has for the phosphorus in the fisli. 

What fish are best to salt ? Cod, mackerel, haddock, 
salmon, shad and herring. 

What is the best method of freshening salt fish ? 
Soak in cold water over night, or if you do not wish 
to wait so long, change the water several times, letting 
it come to boiling point and pour it off, then put on 
more cold water. The water gradually becoming 
warm draws out the salt more quickly than cold 
water. 

Give the best method of cooking. Simmer until 
done. Never boil a salted fish, but keep the water at 
scalding point. 

Give three methods of cooking salt cod. Codfish 
balls. Stewed and served with cream sauce. Boiled 
and served with egg sauce. 

What are eels? ilow should they be cleaned and 



THE WA r WE DID A T COOKING SCHOOL. 153 

cooked ? Eels belong to the Apoda order of fish and 
possess a snake-like form, though they have very 
minute scales, which may be seen when the skin is 
dried and the semi-transparent outer skin is removed 
from the inner skin. Eels should be skinned before 
cooking. They are best saut6d. 

What fish have no scales? Sturgeon, pike, haddock, 
halibut, cat, mackerel, eels and lam.preys. All fish 
without visible scales are scavengers. 

What is the edible part of frogs ? The hindquar- 
ters, though some people use all but the head. 

Give the best methods of preparing frogs. Slcin 
them and throw them in boiling water for five 
minutes. Remove from the boiling water and put in 
cold water until cold. Wipe dry, season with salt and 
pepper, and dredge with flour and saute in butter, or 
prepare as for sauteing ; make a sauce with stock and 
simmer the frogs in it for ten minutes. 

What fish have the oil distributed throughout the 
body ? Salmon, mackerel, eel, herring, sprat, bass, 
blue, sardines, sturgeon and shad. 

What are sardines ? Give the best method of cook- 
ing them. Sardines are small fish of the herring family 
found in the Mediterranean Sea. They are best 
broiled. 

Name the shellfish in common use. In the division 
of MoUusks are found oysters, clams, cockles, scallops, 
mussels and periwinkles, w^hile in the division of 
Crustaceae are the lobsters, crabs, shrimps and prawns. 

Are shellfish as nutritious and digestible as fish ? 
Taken as a class, no. 

Which is the most easily digested of the shellfish ? 
Oysters. 

'What part of the oyster should be rejected as in- 
digestible? The muscle. 

Describe the stomach and liver of the oyster. The 
dark of the soft part is the liver and the sac in its 
center is the stomach. 

What proportion of the oyster is liver? One-third. 

At what season of ttie year are oysters not eatable? 



154 TIIR WAT WE nin AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 

Why ? Tliev are not eatablo from May to September, 
because that is their season foi- spawning. 

Give the popular metliods of preparing oysters. 
Stewed, scalloped, fried and broiled. 

English Muffins. — In making English muffins we 
scalded one pint of milk and added one ounce of but- 
ter and one teaspoonful of salt; when lukewarm we 
added one-half cake of compressed yeast dissolved in 
two tablespoon fuls of lukewarm water, and then stir- 
red in about three cups of flour, and beat continuously 
for live minutes, then stood it iu the bread raiser for 
about two hours. When liglit we added more flour, 
so as to form a soft dough, and after working it lightly 
we divided it into small biscuits or balls and placed 
each one in a well-greased muffln ring. We covered 
them, and when they had grown light we baked them 
on a griddle on top of the stove until i\^ej were a nice 
brown. If we had not had the muffin rings we would 
have used gem pans, and then of course we would 
have baked them in a hot oven. Muffins are always 
pulled bpen, because cutting them with a cold knife 
makes them heavy. One-half cup of liquid yeast 
could have been used instead of the compressed 
yeast. 

Pop-ovEES. — In making pop-overs we beat three 
eggs, unseparated, until light, and added them to one 
pint of milk, with one-half teaspoonful of salt. We 
made a well in two cups of flour and gradually poured 
the milk and eggs into it, stirring all the time, then 
beat it as smooth as possible and strained it through 
a sieve, so as to be sure there were no lumps remain- 
ing. We had heated the well-greased gem pans until 
very hot, so we filled them half-full with the pop- 
over mixture and baked them in a quick oven for 
about twenty-live minutes. 

Plain Waffles. — In making plain waffles we rubbed 
two ounces of butter in one quart of sifted flour, 
added one teaspoonful of salt, then three cups of milk 
which had been scalded and cooled, and then one-half 



TEE WAY WE DID Al COOKING SCHOOL. 155 

cake of compressed yeast dissolved in two tablespoon- 
fuls of lukewarm water. We beat it thoroughly for 
at least three minutes, and put the bowl in the bread 
raiser, which, of course, was partly filled with warm 
water, and left it there for about two hours, until it 
was very light. We beat three eggs until light, added 
the yolks to the batter, and tiien tlio whites, and let it 
stand fifteen minutes. The wnffle-iron had been heat- 
ing gradually and was very hot. We brushed" the 
iron thoroughly with melted suet and poured the bat- 
ter on the iron until the elevations were covered, and 
then closed the iron and turned it over. The waffie 
will be baked a nice brown in about two minutes. It 
should be removed to a heated plate and served at 
once. The best wa^' to fill the iron is to have the 
batter in a pitcher, then it can be poured quickly into 
the iron. 

Chicken in Jelly. — In preparing a chicken in jelly 
we cleaned the chicken and cut it up as we did for 
stewing. We put the chicken in a kettle and added one 
bay leaf, one small onion sliced, three whole cloves, 
one blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste, and covered 
it with boiling water and left it to simmer slowly until 
tender. When done we cut the chicken from the 
bones and removed all the skin, and when cold stood 
the meat away until the next day. The bones and 
skin were returned to the kettle and simmered for 
another hour. While the bones and skin were sim- 
mering we had one-fourth of a box of gelatin st-aking 
in a little cold water. When the liquor was reduced 
to about three cups, we added the gelatin to it, 
stirred it for a moment, and then strained it into a 
granite vessel. The next morning we removed all the 
fat from the top of the jelly and melted the jelly by 
standing tiie vessel on the stove; and when melted we 
poured about one third of the jell}'' in a mould and 
placed it on the ice to harden. When it had become 
hard we placed a layer of chicken on the jelly, and 
slices of three hard-boiled eggs on it, and dusted 
lightly with salt and pepper;, then we placed another 



156 THE WAY WE T)1D AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

layer of chicken and egg, and when all of the chicken 
and eggs had been arranged we poured the remainder 
of the jelly over them. The jelly was liquid though 
cold. We placed the mould where it would keep 
cold, and when it was wanted we turned tiie jelly 
carefully from the mould and garnished it with 
parsley, though the light-colored celery tops make a 
very pretty garnish. 

Mince-meat. — In making mince-meat we covered a 
sticking piece of beef weighing two pounds with boil- 
ing water, let it simmer until tender, and then let 
it stand in the liquid in which it was cooked until 
cold. When cold we ground or chopped the meat 
fine, and also shredded and chopped fine two pounds 
of beef-suet. We shredded one pound of citron, 
pared, cored and chopped four pounds of apples, and 
added two pounds of sultana raisins, two pounds of 
sugar, one-fourth ounce of mace, one-fourth ounce of 
cloves, one-half ounce of cinnamon, two nutmegs grated, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-half pound of candied 
lemon peel cut fine, two pounds of layer raisins which 
had been seeded, and two pounds of currants which 
we had first cleaned by rolling and rubbing them in a 
cup of flour. We washed off the flour, stems and dirt 
b3' pouring cold water several timesover the currants, 
which we had placed in a colander. We then poured 
scalding water over them, and then cold v-ater. When 
they had drained, we spread them on a granite pan to 
dry, and placed the pan in a cool oven, leaving the 
door open. We mixed all these ingredients well to- 
getlier, added the juice and grated rind of two 
oranges and the juice and grated rind of two lemons, 
and after mixing thoroughly we packed it in a stone 
jar and poured over it one quart of sherry, or liome- 
made currant wine, and one quart of good brandy, 
covered it closely and stood it in a cool place. They, 
said this mince-meat would keep all winter, and that 
some people prefer to use the heart, or fresh beefs 
tongue, instead of tiie sticking piece. 

I dare say you think anything with so much liquor 



TBE WAT WJH-DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 15? 

iu it would " keep forever," if you had the using of it. 
Do not imagine, because I send you such recipes as 
were used at school that I have forgotten our 
determination never to offer liquor in any guise to 
any one, for we know not what tastes might be there- 
by awakened. 1 think I shall never forget the 
impression made on us by our fathers' friend when he 
told us what a struggle it was for him to pass by a 
door if he caught the odor of liquor, and how his 
dark eyes glowed when he spoke of his brother who 
had not been able to resist, for this longing for liquor 
had come down to them from one generation to 
another for ages. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViBGiNiA Eeed. 



158 TUB WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 



LETTER XVIII. 

January 20, 189- 
My Dear Cousin Alethea : The professor of 
chemistry performed the experiment of "Testing 
Butter," so we would be sure to understand the sub- 
ject. 

The first thing to do in testing butter or oleomar- 
garin is to get the pure fat separated from the salt, 
curd and water, which is done by melting and filter- 
ing. The professor took a small tablespoonful of the 
butter, heated it until it melted, and then held it still 
until the water settled to the bottom, when he turned 
the fat into a paper filter in a glass funnel, which was 
placed in a tumbler and the whole put into the oven 
to keep the fat heated. The pure, clear fat runs 
through the filter. If the fat is not clear it has to be 
filtered again. The professor used a definite volume 
in the analysis, so that the work done at oi)e time 
would compare with that done at another. He put 
one-half thimblerful of the pure butter-fat into a flask 
and converted it into soap by the alkali and glycerol 
method, which ia the quickest method yet devised. 
One ounce of caustic soda is made into a solution 
with one ounce of water. To ten volumes of this 
solution ninet}"^ volumes of the best commercial 
glycerol is added. A certain amount of this prepared 
glycerol is added to the butter-fat and the whole is 
heated till the soap is made. When the soap ceases 
to foam all the water has been driven off. The liquid 
has a clear anriber color. A definite amount of water 
slowly added makes soapsuds. 

Each fat found in the butter makes its own soap, 
and when these soaps are decomposed by the addition 



THE WAY Win DID AT COOK I NO SCHOOL. 159 

of five centimeters of strong sulfuric acid, from each 
fat we obtain its own acid. The whole quantity 
looked curdled, and the butyric acid gave the decided 
odor of rancid butter. Had" the substance tested been 
oleomargarine there would have only been a sJiglit 
fatty odor, because it contains only a very little 
stearin, and some olein and palmitm, whicli do not 
distil in an open vessel. Butter contains in tiildition 
to those some butyrin and caproin, which, when boiled 
and distilled as in this test, give butyric and caproic 
acids. When these solutions of acids are heated the 
acids float on top. 

When butter has been thoroughly worked the but- 
termilk is all worked out. Eutter has been tested 
which contained forty per cent, of .water, though 
analysts think that over fourteen per cent, of water 
makes the butter more liable to spoil. Butter can be 
incorporated with milk by heating the milk and stir- 
ring in the butter. True butter varies, so that it is 
hard to say how much water it should be allowed to 
contain. 

The decomposition of the butter is caused by the 
microbes of the air and milk feeding on the curd or 
cheesy part of the milk in tlie butter. They could 
not live on the pure butter-fat, but when taken with 
the cheese they live on it and change the butter into 
acids, which are set free. It is the butyric acid wliicli 
gives the peculiar odor to rancid butter. To keep the 
microbes from working you must keep the butter cold 
or render it. Oleomargarin does not become rancid. 

Give the proper method for boiling and opening a 
lobster. Plunge the lobster head downward into a 
vessel of warm — not boiling — water to which has been 
added one tablespoonful of salt. Cover the vessel 
closely and boil from thirty to forty-five minutes, ac- 
cording to the size of the lobster. When done and 
cold twist the tail from the body, and also twist otf 
the claws. Shake out the liver and coral. Remove 
the stomach from under the bead and tho vem from 



160 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKI.YG SCHOOL. 

tlie tail and throw them away, together with the 
spongy fingers found between the body and shell. 
The body should be drawn from the shell, split 
through the center, and the meat picked from the 
cells. The meat of the tail should be taken from the 
shell in one piece, and so, also, should that of thp claws 
after the claws luive been cracked. 

Should lobster be dead or alive before boiling? 
Alive. 

When would you use male and when female 
lobsters? Use a male lobster for eating in definite 
pieces, as in salads or cutlets. The female is used in 
soups and sauces. 

In buying boiled lobsters how may you determine 
whether or not they were alive immediately before 
boiling? If alive when put in to boil the tail will be 
stiff and elastic, and if bent it will spring back im- 
mediately. 

What isthe coral of lobster? The ova. 

When are lobsters in season? From May to Sejv 
tember. 

What is a " tomalley ?" The liver of the lobster, 
and it is known by its greenisii color. 

What is the " lady " of the lobster ? The stomach. 

Give recipes for common methods of preparing 
lobsters. For lobster salad arrange the meat of a 
boiled lobster, when' cut in dice-shaped pieces, upon 
lettuce leaves, garnish wnth rings of the white of hard- 
boiled eggs, and serve with a gill of raa\'onnaise dress- 
ing. For lobster cutlets or chops use two cupfuls of 
boiled lobster, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
one-fourth of a nutmeg grated, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Put one cup of cream or milk to heat, and 
when boiling add one ounce of butter rubbed together 
with three tablespoonfuls of flour; stir and add the 
beaten j'olks of two eggs and cook it two minutes. 
Remove from tlie fire and dd. the seasoned lobster. 
Mix well antl sprea<l out on a platter to cool. When 
cold form in the desired shape and dip ia beaten egg, 
then in bread crumbs, and fry by immersing in heated 



THB WA T WE DID A T COOEINO SCHOOL. 161 

oil. In about two minutes they will become a nice 
brown. Drain and serve on a heated dish, putting 
the end of a small claw to represent the bone in a 
chop, and garnish with parsley. Cream or tartare 
sauce should be served in a boat with them. In pre- 
paring lobster a la Newburg, cut the flesh of one 
boiled lobster into blocks, mash fine the jj^olks of 
three hard-boiled eggs and add to them two or three 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Melt two ounces of butter 
and add two tablespoonfuls of flour, mixing it smootl) ; 
then add the remainder of a half-pint of cream and 
cook it over the fire till thick ; then add the mashed 
yolks and stir in two more ounces of butter, but do 
not let it boil. Add one-half teaspoonful of salt, a 
little cayenne, and then the lobster. Stir until the 
lobster is heated, then add two tablespoonfuls or one- 
fourth of a cup of sherry. Many persons prefer lemon 
juice instead of the sherry. Cream is not so apt to 
curdle as milk in preparing this dish. 

What are crabs ? Give methods of boiling and 
opening. Crabs are one variety of the Decapod 
division of Crustacese and differ from lobsters chiefly in 
being formed for creeping at the bottom of the sea 
instead of swimming. To boil them, they should be 
plunged head first into warm salted water and boiled 
forty-five minutes. When done and cold twist off tlie 
claws and take off the upper shells. Remove the 
spongy substance and see that the under part is free 
from sand. 

Give recipes for the most common ways of preparing 
them. Boil as directed above and arrange the meat 
on a flat dish and garnish with parsley. Each person 
dresses it with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper to suit him- 
self. In preparing deviled crabs, pick out the meat 
from one dozen heavy crabs that have been boiled. 
While one-half pint of cream is heating, rub one ounce 
of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flour and add to 
the cream when it boils, letting it cook for two 
minutes, stirring all the time. Eemove from the fire 
and add the cjab-meat, one tablespoonful of chopped 



163 THE WAY WK BID AT COOKING /SCHOOL. 

parsley, one-fourth of a nutineg grated, the finely 
mashed yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and salt and 
cayenne to ta^te. Mix well, and having cleaned the 
upper shells, put the mixture on the shells, brush with 
beaten egg, covisr with bread crumbs and fry in heated 
oil, or else brown in a quick oven. 

What are soft-s!ieiied crabs and how are they 
cooked ? Soft-sbelied crabs are hard shelled crabs that 
have recently cast their shells. They are sauted in 
butter. 

What is the " apron ?" The apron is a small loose 
shell running to a point in the middle of the under 
shell. The " apron" of the male is long and narrow, 
while that of the female is much broader and rounder. 

What are crayfish ? A fresh water species of 
Crustacese resembling the lobster. 

What are prawns? Prawns are small Crustacese, 
and are the larger of the two varieties of shrimps or 
Gulf shrimjis. 

Wiiat is the usual manner of preparing them? 
Boiled and then used in a salad or sauce. 

V\''hat are shrimps? What two kinds are usually 
sold in our markets? Shrimps are of the genus 
Crangon, the smallest of the dancer tribe, and belong 
to the Decapod division of Crustacese. Gulf ami 
California shrimps are the varieties sold in our 
markets. 

What may be said of canned shrimps? They are 
very nice, being put in bags so they cannot touch the 
tin. 

Give the method of boiling and opening shrimps. 
Plunge them head downward in warm water and boil 
ten minutes. When cold twist the shells of the body 
and tail apart, leaving the meat in one piece. 

Give the best methods of preparing shrimps. Boiled 
and made in salad, or sauce, or deviled. 

What are scallops? How are they sold? What 
part is used for food ? Scallops are marine shell-fisli 
or bivalve moUiisk of the genus Peoten, and are found 
in beds beneath deep water. They are sold b^ the 
quart and only the muscle is used. ' 



THE WAY WE DTD AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 163 

Give the best methods of cooking. They are par- 
boiled, dipped in beaten e<j^g, tlien "in bread 
crumbs and fried by immersion in heated oil. Tliey 
are also stewed for five minutes in one pint of boiling 
milk to which had been added one ounce of batter 
rubbed together with one tablespoonful of flour and 
seasoned with salt and pepper. They can also be 
roasted or baked and pickled. 

What are mussels or soft clams ? Mussels are marine 
bivalve shelUish. 

At what season are they used ? Give the proper 
methods of opening and cooking. Mussels are in 
season during the winter. Kemove the shells care- 
fully; wash and soak them in cold water for ten or 
fifteen minutes and then drain them. They ai-e fried 
and stewed the same as oysters. 

What ai'e clams ? Clams are salt-water bivalves of 
tiie MoUuscae division of shellfish. 

What three varieties are in common use ? The little 
neck or sand clams, the quaiiaugs or mud clams, and 
the cherry-stone clams. 

When are they in season ? Almost the whole year. 
The cherry-stone clams come in as oysters go out. 

What may be said of their digestibility? They are 
hard to digest. 

Which variety is best ? Little necks. 

Give the proper method of opening and the best 
methods of cooking them. Break a nick in the edge 
of the shells, pry them open and remove the clam. 
They are best roasted in their shells, though they can 
be fried, stewed or pickled the same as oysters. The 
most common ways are chowder and soup. Littlu 
necks are served instead of fresh oysters. Cherry- 
stones are served raw on the half-shell. Quahaugs 
are used in chowder and soup. 

Plain Paste. — In making plain paste we had every 
tiling as cold as possible. We sifted and tiien meas- 
ured out three cups of flour, put it in a large mixing- 
bowl and added to it one teaspoonful of salt and one 
teaspoon ful of sugar. We placed one-half pound of 



104 THE WA T WE DID A T COOKINO SCHOOL. 

butter in the center and with a sharp knife cut it into 
small pieces, and, of course, in so doing mixed it with 
the flour. We added ice water very gradually, mixing 
with the knife, and when one portion was moistened 
we pushed it to one side of the bowl. We were very 
particular not to moisten any of the flour a second 
time, but always to stir in a new place. We used 
nearly one cup of ice water in moistening the whole 
quantity, and when it had all been moistened we cut 
and mixed it until it so clung together that we could 
lift it from the bowl with the knife. We dredged the 
board lightly with flour, and having place the paste 
on it, we dredged it with the flour, and then rolled it 
lightly from us into a long, thin sheet, as we did the 
puff paste. We folded the sides in, and then the ends, 
and turned the paste around so the fold ran to and 
from us and rolled it again ; then we folded, turned and 
rolled it once more; tlien folded and placed it on a 
granite pan on the ice till wanted. When it cannot 
be placed in a refrigerator it should be used at once, 
as it will not puff up so nicely if it stands in warm or 
moist air. 

Pumpkin Pie. — In making pumpkin pie we pared 
and cut a pumpkin into pieces about one inch square 
and put the pieces in a stewpan with a little water, to 
keep it from burning. When it had stewed until 
tender we put it througli a vegetable press^ and to 
each cup of pumpkin we added a piece of butter as 
large as a walnut and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of 
salt; after mixing it we let it stand until cold. When 
cold we put one pint of pumpkin in a bowl and added 
one pint of milk, one teaspoonful of ground ginger, 
one-half teaspoonful of ground mace, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon and sugar to taste, and mixed 
it well together; after beating four eggs until light 
we added them to the mixture. When liquor is used 
a gill of brand}' is added. W^e lined deep pie plates 
with the plain paste, filled them with this mixture and 
baked them in a quick oven about thirty minutes. 
This amount filled four pie plates the size we used. 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 165 

Apple Piii. — In making apple pie we pared and 
sliced three large greenings. We lined a tin pie dish 
with plain paste and filled it with the sliced apples ; 
then sprinkled over them one-fourth of a cup of sugar 
and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 
and then added one ounce of butter cut in small pieces 
and two tablespoonfuls of water. We rolled a piece 
of paste until it was larger than the top of the pie, 
and made an opening in the center. We brushed the 
lower rim back from the edge with cold water, put on 
the upper crust, and then pressed the two crusts to- 
gether around next the filling, because if we press the 
outer edges they will not puff up so nicely. We baked 
the pie in a quick oven for thirty minutes. 

Ceanbeeey Pie. — In making a cranberry pie we lined 
a pie dish with plain paste and filled it with uncooked 
cranberries which had been carefully looked over and 
washed. We added one-half cup of molasses and four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and whfen we had put on the 
upper crust we baked it half an hour in a quick oven. 

To Seeve Boiled Lobstee. — In serving boiled 
lobster, after having boiled it according to the method 
given in the questions and answers, we arranged the 
meat in the center of an unheateddish and garnished 
it with the claws placed among sprigs of parsley, 
hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, and fancy shapes cut 
from pickled beets. Each person was at liberty to 
add what seasoning he desired. 

Stet/ed Oystees. — In stewing oysters we put fifty 
oysters in a colander to drain ; then put their 
liquor on to boil and skimmed off all the scum that 
came to the surface in boiling. We added one pint of 
milk to the boiled liquor, and having rubbed together 
one large tablespoon! ul of butter with one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, we added it to the boiling milk and stirred 
until it began to thicken ; then added six whole all- 
spice, one blade of mace and the oysters, which we 
had washed by pouring cold water over tliem \Vhile in 
the colander. We stirred continuously until the 
oysters curled, then added salt and pepper to taste, 



166 TnE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

and stirred until we were sure all tlie oysters were 
heated througb. 

Fricassee of Oystees. — In preparing a fricassee of 
03'sters we boiled twenty-five oysters in their own 
liquor and then drained them in a colander. "We 
melted one ounce o^ butter in a frying pan and added 
one tablespoonful of flour, mixing it smooth, and 
tiien added one-half pint of milk and stirred until 
it boiled. When tlie milk had boiled we added the 
oysters and one-half cupful of the liquor in which 
they had been boiled, one teaspoonful of salt 
and one-eighth of a teaspoonful of cayenne, and 
continued to stir until it boiled again. We re- 
moved them from the fire and stirred in the lightly 
beaten yolks of two eggs and one tablespoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. It was served at once. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViKGiNiA Keed. 



THE WAT WE DID A 2 COQKINO SCHOOL. 167 



LETTER XIX. 

January 30, 189-. 

Mt Dear Cousin Aiethea: The title of the profes- 
sor's last lecture was " Milk." 

Milk is not a perfect food because it lacks iron. 
Milk is a secretion from the milk glands with the fat 
made from the changes of the lining of the glands. In 
fine cattle the butter-fat is more like tallow than in 
the lower grade of cattle. The milk of different 
animals is different. 

The general idea of all forms of milk, and some in 
particular, may be briefly stated by saying that milk 
is water containing fat in suspension and certain other 
substances in solution, but that would not be exact 
because some are in a jelly-like condition — though an 
ingredient in such a condition in milk is said to bcin 
a colloid condition. 

The globules in milk are the particles of butter fat 
•held in suspension. In standard milk there is eighty- 
seven per cent, of water and about thirteen per cent, 
of solid matter. When the per cent, of solid matter 
falls below twelve, the milk is considered poor; but 
wiien the per cent, rises above fourteen the milk is 
called rich. When the average is thirteen, about four 
per cent, would be fat, four per cent, sugar, four per 
cent, proteidsand the remaining one per cent, mineral 
matter. In human milk the fat varies from one and 
one-half ^to six or seven per cent., but is usually from 
two and one-half to three and one-half ; sugar six and 
one-half, the proteids two, and the mineral matter 
about three-tenths, while the remainder is water. 

The great difference between cow's milk and human 
milk is in the curd. The curd of cow's milk is hard 



168 TSE WAY WB DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

and firm, while in human milk it is thin and scant ; 
therefore cow's milk should be diluted before being 
,^iven to young children. Fat exists in milk in an 
emulsified condition; each globule is separate and 
stays so unless churned, when they unite and form a 
solid mass. It is not known yet whether there is a 
fihu on the outside of each globule or whether the 
outside is simply hardened as in starch cells. 

The sugar of milk (lactose) is in a state of solution 
and has nutritive value as food. The proteids are the 
tissue-forming part of milk. Albumin and globulin 
are the two proteids which exist in a state of solution, 
casein is the remaining one and the most abundant, 
and exists in a colloidal state. The mineral matter is 
in a state of solution and is the bone-forming part. 
Colostrum is a milk rich in albumin, but it is a peculiar 
milk with which we shall have nothing to do. 

Milk is a food eminently suitable for microbes. 
Indeed, it is a good medium for cultivating them. 
Milk is rich in the ordinary water and air microbes, 
and it may contain the specific ones of cholera, 
typhoid fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria and scarlet 
fever. Ordinary water is rich in microbes ; so, also, 
are meats and fruits, and our systems are fitted to deal 
with them; but in milk they work on the casein and 
so develop a virulent poison, such as in ice-cream or. 
in cream puffs. Common water microbes acting on 
milk for a few hours make it very bad, so that when 
taken by an infant it would cause fatal results. In 
summer-time these microbes multiply rapidly, so it is 
best to keep the milk chilled. The professor uses 
Arnold's Steam Sterilizer. All milk vessels should be 
scalded or steamed and dried. 

There is rarely a case of true cholera infantum ; 
what is usually so called is inflammation of the intes- 
tines caused by the microbes acting in the milk before 
it was swallowed. 

Adulteration is not right, but often the adulteration 
is the best part. A separator is the best kind of a 
skimmer for taking out the impurities from milk. 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKINQ SCUOOL. 169 

Separator milk looks like rich milk, although only two 
per cent, of the fat is left. Centrifugal force is used 
in skimming. Dair3nnen are now combining to keep 
milk clean and to exclude all milk from farms where 
there is sickness of the help. 

What are terrapins ? Terrapins are reptiles of the 
genus Chelonia and live in water. 

How are they sold and when are they in season ? 
They are sold alive, by the inch, seven inches being 
full size. They are in season from November to 
March. 

What is the difference between diamond-backs and 
other varieties % Diamond-backs have diamond -shaped 
markings on the scales of their backs and have black 
legs. Ked-legs have red-colored skin on their legs, 
while the Juniata have striped legs and are the 
largest of the three varieties. 

What are red-legs? Fresh- water terrapin. The 
females of the red-legs furnish the best eggs for 
sauces. 

Give the method of boiling and opening a terrapin, 
and the methods of cooking. Put the terrapin into 
boiling water and boil ten or fifteen minutes, or until 
you can take off the skin and claws. When skinned 
put into fresh, boiling water and add one tablespoon 
level full of salt. Simmer for about one and a half 
hours, until you can separate the shells easily and the 
flesh on the legs is tender. After separating from the 
shells, turn it on its stomach and take off the sand 
bags from the back, then turn it over and separate it. 
The saddle goes with the tail. Pull off the skin from 
over the eggs and pinch off the bladder carefully down 
in. Take out the eggs and egg-bag. Pull the egg-- 
bag into small pieces, and also the small intestine. 
The intestines are called pipes. Pull out the head, 
throwing the skin away. Throw away the gall bag, 
which is in the right side of the liver, and also throw 
away the stomach and large intestine. The flesh and 
liver must be broken into snuiU pieces. The Mary- 



170 TBE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

land and the Philadelphia are the best methods of 
cooking. 

In preparing terrapin according to the Maryland 
method, if wine is used, the meat is covered with 
sherry or Madeira and let stand two or three hours, 
or over night. Brealc up the shells and add one pint 
of the liquor in wliich the terrapin was last boiled, 
and let it simmer for stock, adding to it one bay leaf, 
one stalk of celery or one small onion, and two pepper- 
corns. Brown two ounces of butter and add two 
tablespoonfuls of browned flour; mix smooth and add 
the pint of stock after it has been strained, stirring 
constantly. When smooth add the terrapin, season 
to taste and cut in two more ounces of butter. When 
the terrapin is heated through it is ready to be served. 
One terrapin is enough for four persons. 

How would you select a chicken ? Turkey ? Duck ? 
By examining the breast bone, skin and feet. 

How can you tell the difference between a young 
and an old turkey ? Duck ? Chicken ? A young 
turkey has a short neck, a broad, fat breast and black 
legs, while an old turkey has a long neck and reddish, 
rough legs. A j'oung duck has a plump, fat breast, 
the webbing and lower part of the legs are soft, and 
the under part of the bill breaks easily, while in an 
old duck the opposite is the case. In a young chicken 
the end of the breast bone is cartilaginous, the legs are 
soft and the skin tender and smooth, while old 
cliickens have spurs and scales on the feet and the end 
of the breast bone will not bend easily. 

Give tlie proper method of cleaning and trussing 
poultry and game. Singe, cut off the head, and cut 
o(f the feet after removing the tendons. Split the 
sldn on the back of the neck, separate the skin from 
the neck, removing the crop and windpipe, and then 
cut off a part of the neck for the giblets. Make a vent 
under the rump and separate the internal organs from 
the back, using one finger in doing so, and then take 
out all tlie internal organs by taking hold of the 
gizzard. Cai ofuily cut around the end of the intestine 



THE WAT WM DID A'l COOKING SGBOOL. 171 

and remove it all together. Cut out the oil sack. 
Wash and dry the skin, wiping the inside with a 
dampened cloth to remove any clots of blood which 
may have been left. Fold the skin over the neck, 
place the wings, take a stitch and tie. Push the legs 
up and stitch through the knee or second joint and tie. 
Stitch through the end of the legs and the rump and 
tie. Game has the legs trussed so they stand up when 
the fowl is placed on its back. Eemove the strings 
before serving. 

What are the giblets ? How are they cleaned ? The 
giblets consist of the liver, heart, gizzard and neck. 
The liver is cut away from the gall bag, the heart is 
cut open to remove the clothed blood, and the outer 
coat of the gizzard is cut and drawn off, leaving the 
sand bag unbroken. They are washed well. 

Give recipe for roasting and boiling a chicken. 
After a chicken has been cleaned and trussed, place it 
on two slices of bacon in the bottom of a baking pan, 
cover the bottom of the pan with water to which has 
been added one teaspoonful of salt. Bake it fifteen 
minutes to the pound, basting it ever^"^ ten minutes. 
Serve on a heated dish and garnish with sprigs of 
parsley. For boiling, the chicken should be drawn, 
cleaned and trussed the same as for roasting. Dredge 
with flour, and place in a pot and cover the chicken 
with boiling water. Put a cover on the pot and let it 
simmer until tender, which will be two hours if the 
chicken is not yoiing. Egg or oyster sauce should be 
served with the chicken. 

What is a brown fricassee? White fricassee? A 
brown fricassee of chicken is made by cutting a chicken 
into eleven pieces after it has been properly cleaned. 
Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and when a 
nice brown put in the chicken ; when it has browned 
nicely cm both sides add two tabiespoonfuls of flour, 
and when stirred well add one pint of boiling water 
or stock and stir until it boils. Add one teaspoonful 
of salt, cover and let it simmer until the chicken is 
tender, and then add one teaspoonful of onion juice 



172 TEE WAT WE BID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 

and a little pepper. In dishing a chicken cut in eleven 
pieces ; the giblets and pieces of the bade are placed 
in the center of the platter, with the two pieces of the 
breast on top ; the second joints are placed on one 
side, the legs are crossed on the other and one wing 
at each end of the platter. The sauce is poured over 
the chicken and chopped parsley sprinkled ovev all. 
In a white fricassee, the chicken is cut up as for the 
brown fricassee, put in a stew kettle, partly covered 
with boiling water, and covered closely and left to 
simmer until tender, which will be about one hour if 
the chicken is young. All the water should be 
evaporated during the cooking. Make a sauce by 
meltmg one large tablespoon ful of butter m a frying 
pan and adding to it two tablespoonfuls of flour; 
.when mixed well add one pint of milk and then turn 
it into the stew kettle in which the chicken was 
cooked and stir until it boils, then add salt and pepper 
to taste. Remove from the Are and stir in the beaten 
yolk of two etrgs and pour it over the chicken, which 
has been dished the same as a brown fricassee. 
Sprinkle with finel}' chopped parsley. 

Give recipe for broiling a chicken. Draw and clean 
the chicken, then split it down the back. Salt and 
pepper the chicken and put it in a broiler. Place the 
bone side down over a slow fire and broil for forty- 
live minutes. Keep it covered with a plate during 
the broiling and turn and brown the skin side before 
serving, liaste with butter after it is dished. 

What are capons? Male birds of our common 
fowls which have been deprived of the faculty of pro- 
creation. 

"What is the best method of cooking them ? Roast- 
ing. 

What is a galantine of turkey? A galantine of 
turkey consists of a boned turkey filled with a boned 
chicken, which was stuifed with bread ci'umbs- and 
sausage or finely minced lean ham, then boiled until 
tender and ihen browned in the oven. It is served 
cold with as[)i(; jelly. 



THB WA 7 WE DID AT COOKINQ SOEOOL. 1?3 

What is a salmi of duck? A salmi is a highly- 
seasoned stew or hash served with a sauce to which 
has been added olives. 

How can you distinguish a young from an old 
goose? Young geese have down on their legs and 
the legs are soft and yellow. The yellow changes to 
a reddish color as they grow old. 

What are guinea "fowls, and how are they best 
cooked ? Guinea fowls are fowls of the genus 
Numida meleagris, and are closely allied to turkeys. 
They have a gamy flavor and are easily digested. 
They are best in a fricassee. 

What is venison ? Venison is the flesh of deer. 

What is said of its nutrition and digestibility ? It 
is easy of digestion. It must be used at once or else 
it must be hung for some time to become tender. 

Give three common methods of preparing it. 
Broiled, roasted and stewed. 

Give the proper method of cleaning rabbits, or 
hares, and the best methods of cooking them. Cut 
off the head, skin, remove the entrails, wipe them, 
divide down the back and cut each half mto four 
pieces. They are stewed, broiled, or made in pies. 

How may the fishy taste be removed from a wild 
duck? By rubbing its breast with onion and putting- 
four uncoolced cranberries inside. 

What varieties are considered best, and how may 
they be distinguished ? Canvas-baclis aud red-heads 
are considered best. Canvas-backs have a greenish- 
black bill, which is longer than thtJ Lead, and the back 
and sides are whitish, waved with black, but the 
white predominates and the black lines are faint and 
niuch broken up; while the red-heads have dull-blue 
bills with a black belt across the end, and the bill is 
shorter than thehead; the back and sides are whitish, 
waved with black, and the dark waved lines are un- 
broken. 

Name the birds in common use for cooking. Can- 
vas-backs, red-heads, b!ue-winged teal, black duck, 
widgeon, wild goose, pigeon, partridge, pheasant, 



174 THE WAT WE DID AT GOO KING SOEOOL. 

quail, grouse, prairie fowls, reedbirds, blackbirds, 
woodcock, snipe and plover. 

Describe each and give the best methods of cooking. 
In birds which use their legs in swimming, or scratch- 
ing the breast is better developed than the legs, which 
are small, while those flj'ing have the hindquarters 
better developed. Koast or broil all excepting the 
pigeon and blackbird, which are best in pies. Wood- 
cock, snipe and plover are roasted undrawn. 

Name the nuts in common use. Tell how and 
where they grow. Hickory nuts, pecans, walnuts, 
butternuts, chestnuts, almonds, brazil nuts, cocoanuts, 
pine nuts, pistachio, hazelnuts and peanuts. The 
hickory nuts, pecans, walnuts, butternuts and chest- 
nuts grow on trees in this country and Europe. 
Pistachio nuts grow on trees native of Persia and 
Syria. Almonds grow on small trees native of Syria. 
Brazil nuts grow on trees native of Brazil. Cocoanuts 

froiv on a variety of palm, originally a native of the 
ndian coast and South Sea islands. Hazelnuts grow 
on bushes native of this country and of all the temper- 
ate parts of Europe and Asia. Peanuts grow on a 
leguminous plant, and originally came froni South 
America. 

What is said of their nutrition and digestibility ? 
They are very nutritious, but are hard to digest. 
What nuts are used for cooking purposes ? All. 

Spinach. — In preparing spinach we looked over and 
cut off the roots from half a peck of spinach, then 
washed it through several cold waters to free it from 
grit, and then drained and pressed it so as to remove 
as much of the water as possible. We put the 
spinach in a granite kettle, added one cup of cold 
water, and allowed it to steam for twenty minutes 
over a moderate fire. We purposely left the kettle 
uncovered so that the spinach ^ would not become a 
dingy color. When it had steamed sufficiently we 
drained all the water off, turned the spinach into a 
chopping tray and chopped it very £ne. We then put 



TEE WAT WE DID AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 175 

it in a saucepan and added one ounce of butter, salt 
and pepper to taste, and stirred it until heated through. 
It can then be served on a heated vegetable dish with 
slices of hard-boiled eggs arranged on top ; but we 
placed small squares of buttered toast on a heated disli, 
placed a mound of spinach on each square, and one- 
half of a hard-boiled egg on the top of each mound ; 
then poured drawn butter around the toast. The 
mound of spinach had been shaped by packing it 
tightly in a cup. 

Deawk Buttee. — In preparing drawn butter we 
mixed two ounces of butter with one tablespoonful of 
flour, put it in a double boiler and added gradually one- 
half pint of boiling water, stirring constantly until it 
thickened. We removed it from the fire as scon as it 
thickened, added one half-teaspoonful of salt, and it 
was ready to be used. 

Boiled Cauliflowee. — In preparing boiled cauli- 
flower we trimmed off the outer leaves, cut the stem 
off close to the flowerets, and after washing well let it 
stand and soak head downward in clear cold water for 
one hour. We wrapped the head of cauliflower in 
cheesecloth to keep it from discoloring or breaking, 
and placed it stem downward in boiling water. We 
added one teaspoonful of salt and covered the kettle 
and left it to boil until the cauliflower was tender, 
about thirty minutes. We took it carefully from the 
water, and after removing the cloth placed the cauli- 
flower stem downward on a round, platter, poured 
cream sauce over it, and it was readj^ to be served. 

Stewed Cabbage. — In preparing stewed cabbage we 
cut a small head of cabbage into two equal parts and 
soaked it in clear cold water for one hour. After re- 
moving the stalk or hard part we chopped the 
remainder very fine, put it in a stewpan, covered it 
with boiling water, and let it simmer uncovered for 
twenty minutes. After draining it in a colander we 
turned it into a heated dish and poured cream sauce 
over it. 



176 THE WA T WE DID A T COOKING SCHOOL. 

Boiled Asparagus. — In preparing boiled asparagus 
we washed it in cold water, cut off all the tough 
portion, and let it stand in cold water for thirty 
minutes. We then tied it in small bundles and drop- 
ped them in a iiettle of boiling water; after they had 
boiled for twenty minutes we added one teaspoonful 
of salt and left it to boil for ten minutes longer, while 
we toasted squares of bread from which we had re- 
moved tlie crust. We buttered the toast whde hot 
and placed it on a heated plate. We drained the 
asparagus, and after removing the strings hea^ied it 
up on the toast. We were careful to place the heads 
all one way. We melted one ounce of butter in a 
saucepan and added one tablcspoonful of flour, and 
when mixed smooth we added one cup of the liquid in 
which the asparagus was boiled, stirring constantly, 
and when it boiled we seasoned it v.'iih salt and black 
pepper and poured it over the asparagus, which was 
then served. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViEGINIA KeBD. 



THE WAY WK DID AT COOKINU SOMOOL. 177 



LETTEE XX. 

February 17, 189-. 

My Dear Cousin Alethea : The professor's last 
lecture was a continuation of the one on " Milk." 

Changes take place in milk when it stands. The 
fat rises, not as batter, because there are other ingre- 
dients in the cream, and only about twenty per cent. 
o£ butter-fat. Watered milk throws up the cream 
better even tlian the pure milk. 

Various creamometers have been devised, but all 
have been unsatisfactory, because the milk depends 
on too many different things to be the same at all 
times. When milk is agitated as in churning, the fat 
globules break up, and being collected together inake 
butter. In the centrifugal machines called separator 
skimmers, the cream can be collected with ease and 
rapidity. Almost. as rapid and as close a separation 
can be made i,n the tall cans when kept at a low 
temperature. Therefore creameries have sprung up, 
which has done away with butter making on the 
farm, and has also led to cheapening the cost. This 
is not, however, free from objections, because it makes 
it so much easier to adulterate with oleo-oil, as recent 
cases liave proved. 

There is another objection which is serious. A 
polluted material added to one free from pollution, 
but capable of supporting the microbes, would develop 
them very rapidly, as often results when a small 
amount of sewerage gets into pure water. It is the 
same when tuberculosis is in the milk of one out of 
fifty farms, wiiich when mixed with the other milk 
would spread the disease through the whole. JSTow 
all uho partake of that (;rcam are exposed, while here- 
tofore only those supplied by that one farm would 



178 THE WAT iVE DID AT COOKTNa SCHOOL. 

have been endangered. In milk the disease germs 
may not all come from the cattle. The infection may 
come from the hands and from other animals. Cats 
and dogs do not usually have tuberculosis, but they 
convey skin affections and diphtheria. 

Milk may have, from the air and water, microbes 
which, when they get in the milk, become virulent or 
act on and decompose the milk, making it poisonous. 
Adults may resist its action, but children cannot 
always, so sometimes the inflammation of the bowels 
results in deatl). Milk is now collected in some places 
with a great deal of care. The cattle are inspected 
from month to month, so also are those who take 
charge of them and the milk, all of which tends to 
keep the milk pure. 

The professor thinks that the announcement by 
Koch of tuberculin before its time was due to political 
pressure, and that tuberculin as a detector of germs of 
tuberculosis in cattle is very good. It is the only sure 
method of finding out which cattle are diseased and 
breaking down all tiiat are susceptible. Many whose 
temperature does not rise succumb later, so by killing 
all such a stronger race will eventually arise. It will 
cost a great deal, but it is the best way to protect 
ourselves. 

Cattle have been made weak by cultivating for a 
great yield of milkand butter-fat,andasinallnatureyou 
sacrifice one part in order to gain in another. Though 
those that are diseased are limited in number, it is 
safest to depend on heating the milk to kill the germs. 
In that way the large microbes are killed, and as the 
others do not grow large for several days, the milk 
can be kept a few days even in hot weather. 

The way to heat it is to put it in a glass vessel and 
stop the mouth of the vessel with a cotton plug. Sub- 
ject the vessel to heat at the temperature of from one 
hundred and sixty to one hundred and sixtj'-seven 
degrees for fifteen or twenty minutes and cool quickly. 
Such heat does not change the milk and only kills the 
large microbes. By a higher heat or boiling the sugar 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOEINO SCHOOL. 179 

in the milk is modified, the albumin, though only one- 
third of one per cent, present, and that nearly like 
blood albumin, coagulates ; the casein is not changed 
by heating, stiil it dries out and floats as scum, and 
steadily becomes less digestible; the globules of fat 
become larger by running together, which also makes 
it harder to digest. Tiiis is the condition which exists 
in condensed milk and evaporated cream. It is not 
reall)' cream — only unsweetened milk condensed. 

Pasteurizing is better because it kills- the microbes 
that are our foes and leaves tlie friendly ones to iielp 
us digest the milk. Pasteurized milk is in some places 
called modified milk, because it is not heated so much 
as in sterilizing. 

What IS tea? Give its chemical composition and 
active principle. Tea is the dried leaves of a plant of 
the genus Thea, which belongs to tiie family Camellia. 
Tea contains volatile oil, water, tannin, theine, glutin, 
fibrin, gum, mineral matter and coloring matter. Its 
active principle is tlieine. 

Describe its growth. Name and describe each of 
the different species. It is a shrub growing from three 
to six feet high. Under cultivation it looks like rows 
of gooseberry bushes. Thea viridis has leaves longer 
than wide, while the T/iea lo/iea has smaller leaves, 
wiiich are broader in proportion. All are only slightly 
different varieties of the same shrub, altered in habit 
and appearance by cultivation, cliumte and soil. The 
difference in the teas, as we know them, is due to the 
way in which they have been handle;! and dried. The 
A\i Japan teas are rolled long and thin -. ^ 

V\ while the China and Indhi teas are >) (k [^ 
'* rolledtoberounderandraorebroken. 

Which is more healthful, green or black tea? Why ? 
Black teas are moi-e healthlul, because they have been 
fermented and so lost some of certain properties. 
Orange Pekoe is the best we find in this country. Of 
the green teas gunpowder is the best imported into 
this country. 

Give recipe for making tea. Pour boiling watei" 



180 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

into an earthen pot and stand it on the back part of 
the stove for ten minutes and then pour out the water. 
Put the tea in the pot, allowing one teaspoonf ul of tea 
for each cup of water, and pour on one-half of the 
water, which should be soft and freshly boiled. Let it 
draw for live minutes on the back of the stove. Add 
tJie remainder of the water and serve at once. 

Why should tea always be made in an earthen 
vessel ? So that the acid of the tea might not act 
upon the metal of the pot, thereby making unhealthful 
combinations. 

Why should it not be boiled ? Boiling extracts 
more of the tannic acid, which we do not want, and 
the characteristic flavor of tea being volatile is driven 
off in the steam. 

Name the different kinds of coffee, and describe 
each species. Mocha, Java and Rio. Mocha has 
small round grains of a dark greenish yellow. Java 
has lai'ge flat grains of a pale yellow color, while Rio 
is between the two in size. 

Tell where and how it grows. Coffee grows in 
Arabia, Abyssinia, Egypt, West Indies, Peru, Brazil, 
Java, Ceylon, and other warm countries. It is the 
seed of a berry which grows on a small tree, Coffea 
arahioa, of the Ruhiaceoe family. 

Give its chemical composition and' active principle. 
Coffee contains caffeine, legumin, gum and sugar, 
catfeo-tannic and caffeic acids, essential oil and volatile 
oil, woody fibre, mineral matter and water. Its active 
principle is caffeine. 

Give the best method of making coffee. Use soft 
water when it first boils. Stand the pot on the back 
of the stove and have the finely ground coffee in the 
biggin in the pot, allowing one tablespoonful of the 
coffee to each cup of water. Pour on the boiling 
water and when it ha.s drained through add more, 
until you have obtained the desired quantitj', then 
serve at once. 

AVhy should it not be boiled ? Are coffee and tea 
inf usious or decoctions \ W hy ? Coffee should not be 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 181 

boiled, because that brings out the astringent principle 
and drives off the iiroma in the volatile oil. Tea and 
coffee are infusions, because boiling is required to 
make a decoction. 

Which is the more healthful, tea or coffee? Most 
authorities say coffee is the more healthful. 

What is chicory anil its uses? How do chicory and 
coffee differ in chemical composition? Chicory is a 
plant of the genus ClcJiorkom Intyius, of the composite 
family, and its long root is sliced, dried and roasted 
and used as a substitute for coffee. A little chicory 
gives the color and bitter taste to boiling water, the 
same as a large amount of coffee, and it contains a 
volatile oil, but in all other respects they are different. 

What is cocoa? Tell where and how it grows. 
Cocoa is a preparation made from the seeds of the 
Theobroma cacao. The seeds are arranged in rows in 
fruit having somewhat the outline of a pointed 
ellipse. The tree on which they grow is a native of 
tropical America. 

What is chocolate? Broma? Eacahout? Alka- 
threpta ?' Chocolate is the cacao bean or seed roasted, 
ground with cinnamon, sugar and vanilla and made 
into cakes'. Broma is chocolate deprived of the fixed 
oil and left in a powder. Alkathrepta is cocoa that 
has been deprived of the oil and had some sugar added. 
Eacahout is a food made from cocoa to which has 
been added sugar, salep, vanilla, arrowroot and rice 
fiour. 

Give their chemical composition. Water, starch, 
gum, tannin, glutin, oil, coloring matter, mineral 
matter, fibre and theobromine. 

What is the active principle of cocoa ? Theobro- 
mine. 

What is the best method of preparing each ? 
Boiled with water for a drink or with milk for a food. 

What is tapioca? Arrowroot? Sago? Tapioca 
and cassava are made from the tuberous roots of 
Manihot utilissima of the order Eupliorbiacew. The 
best arrowroot is from the West Indies and is made 



183 '"HE WAY WE BID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

from the roots of Marromta arundinacea. Sago is made 
from the pith of the sago palm. All are nutritive 
starches used for food. 

To what class of food do they belong ? Carbon- 
aceous. 

Name the dififerent kinds of arrowroots. Which is 
best? Brazilian arrowroot is made from tapioca 
meal or cassava. East Indian arrowroot is made from 
Curcuma augustifolia, a species of turmeric plant. 
English arrowroot is made" from the potato. Tous- 
les-mois is made from the tuberous roots of the Canna 
edulis. Portland arrowroot is made from Arxim 
maculatum. Tahitan arrowroot or Taoca starch, also 
sometimes called Otaheite salep, is made from the 
root of the Tacoa oceanica. The best arrowroot of all 
is the Bermuda, which is a West Indian, arrowroot 
obtained from the tuberous roots of the Maranta 
a/rundinacecB. 

Why called arrowroot? Because the Indians used 
the root of a variety of the Maranta plant as an 
antidote to the poison on their enemies' arrows, 

What is cornstarch ? What are its uses ? Corn- 
starch is the starch derived from maize. It is used to 
thicken puddings and sauces. 

How many tablespoon fuls of pure cornstarch will 
thicken a pint of milk for puddings? Four level 
tablespoonfuls. 

Give recipe for blinc mange. Chocolate pudding. 
Put" one quart of milk in a farina boiler on the stove. - 
Moisten eight level tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with 
a little cold milk, add it to the steaming hot milk and 
stir until it thickens. Add one-half cup of sugar and 
one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt. When it has 
thickened pour inio custard cups and stand away to 
cool and harden. Serve with cream. In making 
chocolate pudding, melt two ounces of chocolate, stir- 
ring it until smooth. Put one pint of milk on in a 
farina boiler, and wlien steaming add four level table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch, Virhich have been moistened 
with one-fourth of a cup of cold water, and stir until 



THE WAY WE DID AT GOO KING SCHOOL. 183 

thick and smooth, then add the stiffly beaten whites of 
four eggs and one-half cup of yugar. Beat well to- 
gether and add one teaspoonful of vanilla. To one- 
third of this mixture add the chocolate and stir well. 
Put one-half of the white mixture into a plain mould 
that has been rinsed in ice water, then pour in all 
containing the ciiocolate and then the remainder of 
the white. Stand it on ice until it stiffens, which will 
be in about three hours. Turn from the mould and 
serve with vanilla sauce poured around it. 

What is Irish moss? Iceland moss? Irish moss or 
carrageen is a seaweeil of the genus C/iromhis crispus. 
Iceland moss is a liciien of the genus Cetraria is- 
landlca. 

Give the chemical composition and their uses. Irish 
moss contains water, nitrogenous matter, mucilage, 
cellulose, mineral matter, iodine and sulphur, while 
the Iceland moss contains water, nitrogenous matter, 
lichenin which resembles starch, lichen acids, cellulose 
and mineral matter. They are used as foojl, Irish 
moss-being especially good on account of its soothing 
effect on the muc(;us membrane. 

Baked Macaboni. — In preparing macaroni for 
baking we broke one-fourth of a pound of Italian or- 
brownish-colored macaroni into convenient lengths 
and put it in a two-quart kettle containing three pints 
of boiling water ; after adding one teaspoonful of salt 
we allowed it to boil rapidly, so the macaroni wouki 
be kept from sticking together. When it had boiled 
twenty-five minutes we drained it, poured cold water 
on it, and let it stand ten minutes, so as to blanch it. 
We drained it in a colander while we grated one- 
fourth of a pound of cheese. We spread a layer of 
macaroni over the bottom of a taking dish, then a 
layer of grated cheese, and sprinkled it lightly with 
sale and pepper ; then another layer of macaroni and 
cheese, and so on until all the cheese and macaroni had 
been used, being particular to have the last layer 
macaroni. We cut into small pieces one ounce of 
butter and scattered it over the top; then poured on 



184 THE WAY WE DTD AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

one-half cup of cream and baked it till a golden brown, 
which would require about twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. It was served in the dish in which it 
was baked. 

Cream Macaeoni. — In preparing cream macaroni 
we took one-half pound of spaghetti, whicli is a delicate 
form of macaroni, and without breaking the sticks 
put one end of them down in a kettle well-filled witii 
boiling salted water ; as the spaghetti softened we 
pushed them further in the water, and at the same 
time gave it a round and round motion, so it would 
not all be in one bunch. We allowed it to boil 
rapidly for twenty minutes, then turned it into a 
colander to drain, poured cold water on it to 
blanch it, and then arranged it in a three-pint baking 
disli. In making the cream gravy to pour over the 
macaroni, we put three cupfuls of milk on in a double 
boiler. We mixed three tablespoonfuls of flour with 
three tablespoonfuls of butter ami stirred it into the 
steaming milk, and continued to stir until it thickened, 
and then stirred in three tablespoonfuls of strong 
ciieese (Parmesan is the best). We poured tiie gravy 
over the macaroni in the baking dish, sprinkled over 
the top more of the grated cheese, and put it in the 
oven to brown. If for any reason the macaroni could 
not be served as soon as browned, do not add the 
cheese to the gravy, but keep the gravy in good condi- 
tion by standing it in a covered vessel in a pan of hot 
water, and put. them together just before putting in 
tlie oven, because the gravy will curdle when kept 
long on the macaroni. 

Cheese Ramakins. — In preparing cheese ramakins 
we put one-half cupful of milk and two ounces of 
bread on to boil, and when we had stirred it smooth 
and it had boiled, we added two ounces of butter and 
four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. We stirred 
until all was well blended and then removed it from 
the fire and stirred into it one-third of a teaspoonful 
of ground mustard, salt and cayenne to taste, and the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. We then added very care- 



TBE WAT WK DID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 185 

fully the whites of tliree eggs, which had been beaten 
until very stiff, and then poured it into a well-greased 
baking dish and baked it in a quick oven for fifteen 
minutes. 

Welsh Kaeebit. — In preparing a Welsh rarebit we 
first toasted squares of bread from which the crust 
'had been cut, and buttered them while hot; then 
dipped them quickly into hot water and put tiiem on 
a heated dish in the oven, so they would keep warm 
until wanted. We put one-half cupful of milk in a 
granite saucepan, and when boiling we stirred in two 
cupfuls of grated cheese and stirred constantly until 
the cheese melted ; we then added salt and cayenne to 
taste and the beaten yolks of two eggs, and when well 
blended we poured it over the toasted bread. Old 
English dairy cheese is the best for this dish, because 
when cheese is not rich enougli.to melt, the rarebit 
will be tough and stringy. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViEGiNiA Keed. 



180 -i'ilJi WAY WE DID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 



LETTER XXI. 

February 28, 189-. 

Mt Dear Cousin Alethea : Still the order of lecture, 
questions and cooking continues, but we have counted 
the weeks and are beginning to realize that it will not 
be long until we siiall finish the course prescribed. 
The professor's last lecture was on " Proteids." 

Much has been written about proteids, but, in fact, 
we know little about them. AH forms of proteids 
contain nitrogen. Modern science looks on all life 
action as chemical effect. Nitrogen is in the tissues, 
so now they are trying to find out if we can use that 
from the atmosphere, because four-fifths of the atmos- 
piiere is nitrogen, and if it could be so utilized it would 
lessen the cost of living. The primary means of 
supply has been obtained from the land, so that 
agriculture was the first form of labor, or it was 
obtained from animals and thus indirectly from the 
land. It is only a limited period since we have 
learned the relation between plants and animal life. 

Proteids are very complex in their elements, and 
contain carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur 
and pliosphorus, and are capable of existing in soluble 
and in insoluble conditions. The condition under 
which the different proteids become insoluble differs 
with the different ones; for instance, the albumin of 
egg, one of the most common of the proteids, is 
rendered insoluble by heat. Albumin though coagu- 
lated by heat is also coagulated by many acids, but 
not by all acids. Nitric, picric or strong acetic acids 
renders the albumin insoluble, so these acids would 
also be destructive to all life or bodies containing 
albumin ; hence they are employed as antiseptics. 
Corrosive sublimate and zinc chloride are also very 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 187 



I 



strong and coagulate albumin and fibrin. Tliey ai'e 
pumped through bodies which are to be kept for weeks, 
and preserve them, so that when a person dissects 
them they will not be poisoned. 

It has been found that albumin does not coagulate 
when an alkali is present. The coagulation of casein 
is different from that of albumin. In milk the casein 
evaporates from the surface — drys up and forms the 
scum when the milk has been heated sufficiently. 
This is not true coagulation. Any strong acid will 
make milk coagulate. There is one-third of one per 
cent, of albumin in milk and four per cent, of casein. 

The souring of milk is caused by the sugar being 
changed to lactic acid by a ferment. Tliis ferment is 
secreted by a mierobe and causes the sugar (CiaHjaOu) to 
be brought into closer union with water (IIjO) than any 
^other means is capable of doing, and this compound is 
equal to four particles of lactic acid (CatljOa). This 
change is really a digestion, though a strong acid can 
also coagulate the milk. Eennet is different and acts 
on the casein itself, and when added to the casein, 
calcium phosphates and acid dissolves out the calcium 
phosphate, which falls as a precipitate. Casein is in 
milk in a jelly form. It is possible that casein is by 
itself insoluble in water. Fat is in suspension in milk. 

All proteids have a preliminary stage to pass 
through before we can get it. out, and the producer of 
the casein is called caseinogen, and the one that brings 
out the Kbrin, the fibrinogen. Vfhen albumin, fibrin 
and casein are placed in contact with pepsin and 
livdrochloric acid they are rendered soluble — tiie\' 
will disappear and the liquid will become clear. The 
pepsin iias transformed or digested the albumin, fibrin 
and casein, and after they have become soluble they 
wdl not return to their original forms. All this takes 
place b}' the taking up of water and is called hydrolysis. 
The intermediate stages through wliicii the albumin 
passes to became a peptone are called albumoses or 
proteoses. Starch under the influence of diastase be- 
comes converted into maltose, but between the time 



18S THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

of its being starcii and becoming maltose it is changed 
into an imperfect dextrin and glucose. It is known 
that the action of pepsin is very limited, so stomach 
digestion is incomplete. The pancreatic digestion is 
much more active, and unless checited it will cause 
putrefaction. Digestion is influenced by the action 
of liquids. Pepsin requires an acid and pancreatin 
requires an alkali ; diastase requires neither. There 
are ferments more active than those in our bodies. 
Bromelin in the pineapple is one of these. We are 
yet ignorant of the exact arrangement y^jK 
of these particles. Carbon atoms are y p f 
arranged in strings or chains. Coal oil 'Nv/\/« 
is in an open chain. Coal tar is in a closed e e 

chaiA. 

Carbolic acid is a constant production from pro- 
teids. Irregular putrefaction can be told by the 
carbolic acid sent forth by the kidneys. It is an 
excretion from a microbe, and since a microbe cannot 
live in its own excretion it kills that microbe and is 
used as an antiseptic to kill other microbes. 

What is sugar ? Give adulterations. Sugar is the 
sweetening principle found in the vegetable kingdom. 
It is called lactose when from the animal kingdom. 
The two main varieties are cane sugar and grape 
sugar. Cane sugar is sometimes adulterated with 
beet sugar and glucose. 

How can you tell grape from cane sugar ? Cane 
sugar is much the sweeter, and water will dissolve 
three times as much cane sugar as it will grape sugar. 
Chemically grape sugar is composed of CJIiaOe while 
CijIIj^Oji represents the elements in cane sugar. 

What is maple sugar? Sugar made from the sap of 
the sugar or hard maple tree, Acer saccharinuin of 
the Sapidacem order. 

What is caramel? Caramel is sugar that has been 
subjected to such a high heat that it has browned 
until it has lost its sweet principle and become bitter. 

Name the different kinds of sugar and tell their 
uses. Cane sugar, maple sugar, milk sugar or lactose, 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 189 

beet sugar, Mexican sugar made from Indian corn, 
sugar made from the sugar cane of the North or 
Sorghum saccharatum,, a'nd jaggery made from the 
sap of various trees of the palm tribe. All are used 
in preparing food. 

How do you clarify sugar ? Boil the sugar and 
water and add a little cold water, with the crushed 
shell and slightly beaten white of egg, and when it 
boils again skim and then strain carefully through a 
woolen bag. 

"What is honey? Syru,p? Molasses? Honey is 
the nectar gathered by bees from flowers, and partly 
digested by the bee and deposited in combs. Manu- 
facturers also make it from glucose and glycerol. 
Syrup is the liquid that has drained from refined 
sugar and then been reboiled and filtered. Molasses 
is the drainings from raw sugar. 

What kinds of molasses are best for cooking pur- 
poses? Porto Rico or West India and New Orleans 
are the best. Porto Rico is the darkest and contains 
the most acid of all the kinds of molasses. It has a 
slight flavor of liquorice. New Orleans is lighter 
colored though still dark. 

Is sugar a preserver ? In large quantities it is, 
because when made dense the microbes cannot enter' 
it. 

What is the best method of determining the density 
of sugar? By using an instrument called a saccha- 
rometer, though the common way is to test the boiling 
liquid as in making candy. 

Can candy be made from uncooked sugar ? Yes, 
by using powdered sugar and the whites of eggs. 

What is salt ? What is its chemical composition ? 
Salt is a mineral, and being sodium chloride it contains 
both sodium and chlorine. 

What are condiments? Condiments are various 
articles used to make food more palatable or whole- 
some. Salt, pepper, spices and herbs are the most 
common condiments. Condiments are used as pre- 
servatives of food in hot countries. 



190 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

How many kinds of pepper are used ? Two true 
peppers, tbe black and the long and the capsicums. 

What is white pepper? Black? Cayenne? Bird? 
White pepper is the black pepper deprived of its outer 
covering. Black pepper is the dried berries of a 
climbing plant, Piper nigrum, native of the East 
Indies. Cayenne is a capsicum of tlie order Solanaceoe. 
Bird pepper is of another genus called Capsicum iao- 
catum. 

What are peppercorns ? Peppercorns are the whole 
berries of the pepper plant dried and kept unground. 

To what family does cayenne belong? Solanacece 
or Nightshade family. The best comes from the West 
Indies.' 

Which nutmegs are best ? Those which contain the 
most oil. 

What are nutmegs? Tell where and how they 
grow. Nutmegs are seeds of a variety of Myristica, 
an evergreen tree native of the Spice Islands. There 
are thirty-six varieties of the wild nutmegs. 

Why are nutmegs limed before exporting? Nut- 
megs are limed in order to keep away insects and to 
destroy the power of vegetating. 

What is mace ? Mace is the aril of the nutmeg, that 
is a membranous covering which surrounds the nut- 
meg. 

What is curry powder ? Curry powder is a condi- 
ment composed of various strong spices, of which 
turmeric and fenugreek predominate. 

What are coriander seeds? Cumin seeds? Fennel 
seeds? Anise seeds? Coriander seeds are spherical 
iij^ht brown seeds of the genus Coriwndrum sativum 
of the Parsley family. Fennel seeds are dark-colored, 
about one-fourth of an inch long, and slender, of the 
genus FmniGulum vulgwre, and are also of the Parsley 
family or Umbelliferce. Cumin seeds are seeds from a 
dwarf umbelliferous plant somewhat resembling 
fennel, and have a bitterish, warm taste. Anise seeds 
are oblong swelling seeds having a pleasant, warm 
taste, and are of the genus Pimpinella anisum,, which 
is also an umbelliferous plant. 



THE WAT WE I)IV AT COOKING SCHOOL. 191 

What is turmeric ? Turmeric is the root or rno't- 
stock of an East India plant of the genus Curcuma 
longa. The root is grayish on the outside, but 
internally it is. a deep yellow or saffron color, and has 
a slight aromatic smell, and a bitterish, slightly acrid 
taste. 

It is the turmeric in the curry powder that works 
on the liver. 

What are cloves? Describe the structure of the 
clove. Cloves are the dried calyx and unexpanded 
flower buds of the genus Caryophyllus, an evergreen 
tree belonging to the Myrtle order. It is native of 
the Spice Islands. 

What is allspice ? By what other name is it known ? 
Allspice is a small dry berry, the fruit of the genus 
Pimetita, an evergreen tree of the Myrtle order. It 
is sometimes called pimento. The best comes from 
Jamaica. 

What gives the grains their shriveled appearance ? 
The shriveled appearance is caused by drying. The 
best are picked so green that they do not shrivel. 

Plain OMELET.--In making a plain omelet we 
selected a sheet-iron pan having a diameter of about 
eight inches, and to make sure the bottom was as 
smooth as it could be, we scoured it with a piece of 
paper and common salt and then wiped it out, but did 
not wash it. We broke four or six eggs in one bowl 
and gave the eggs from twelve to fifteen good beats, 
using a fork so the eggs were mixed together, but not 
frothy or light. We then added one tablespoonful of 
boiling water to each egg and gave them a few more 
strokes to mix the water through them, and then 
added a piece of butter about as large as a hickory 
nut. We put the remainder of an ounce of butter in 
the fryins' pan, and when it had melted, but not 
browned, we poured in the eggs, and shook the pan 
constantly with the left hand, and with a spatula in 
llie right hand we lifted the edge of the omelet as tlio 
eggs began to solidify, and let the liquid portion run 



193 TEE WAT WE DID AT GOOKINO SCHOOL. 

under. We continued to lift first one part of the 
edge and then another until all the omelet was set. 
We dusted it quickly with salt and pepper and then 
rolled the omelet over from the handle of the pan to 
the opposite side, making the omelet semicircuhir in 
outline, and while holding the omelet in plaoe with 
the spatula we with the left hand inverted the pan 
over a heated dish; after removing the spatula the 
omelet was ready to be served immediately. 

We were told never to use milk in an omelet, as 
milk would cause it to be tough ; neither should we 
allow it to become darker than a golden brown, as that 
spoiled the flavor of the eggs. 

Spanish Omelet. — In making a Spanish omelet we 
cut one-fourth of a pound of bacon into very small 
pieces and fried them ; that is, panned them until 
brown, and then added one medium-sized tomato, one 
small onion and five mushrooms chopped fine, and 
stirred and allowed all to cook for fifteen minutes. 
We broke six eggs in a bovv'l, gave them twelve 
beats to mix them, and added three tablespoonfuls of 
water. Having melted a piece of butter as large as a 
walnut in a frying pan we tilted the pan one way and 
another so the bottom and sides of the pan w.ere well 
greased ; then poured in the six eggs and shook the 
pan and lifted the edge of the omelet the same as in 
making the plain omelet. When the omelet was set, 
we poured the tomato and other ingredients from the 
other frying pan over the omelet, folded it the 
same as we did the plain omelet, and turned it at once 
on to a heated platter. Omelets must be served im- 
mediately, as they are not so nice if they stand even 
but a few minutes. 

Deviled Eggs. — In preparing deviled eggs vre 
covered twelve eggs with vi^arm water and boiled'them 
fifteen minutes, after which v*'e placed them in cold 
water for thirty 'minutes in order to prevent them 
from becoming discolored. After removing the shells 
we cut the eggs lengthwise into two equal parts and 
removed the yolks without breaking the whites. We 



THM WA 7 WTS BID A T COOKING SCHOOL. ■ 193 

rubbed the yolks smooth and mixed with them one 
large teaspoonful of French mustard, one tablespoon- 
ful of olive oil, and then added two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of cold boiled ham or tongue finely chopped, 
and salt and cayenne to taste. We filled the whiles 
with this mixture and pressed the corresponding' 
halves -together. We fringed the opposite ends of six- 
inch squares of white tissue paper and rolled one ej^g- 
in each square and twisted the fringed ends the same 
as in candied secrets. They are very attractive at a 
picnic or garden party, served on a napkin in a dainty 
basket garnished' with smilax or myrtle. We might 
have arranged the halves when filled on a bed of cress 
or salad and so served them. 

Beauregard Eggs. — In preparing Beauregard eggs 
we covered five eggs with boiling water, and after 
boiling them twenty minutes we removed the shells, 
chopped the whites fine, and run the yolks through 
the vegetable press, being careful not to mix the 
whites with the yolks. We put one-half pint of milk 
on to heat and rubbed one tablespoonful of cornstarch 
with a piece of butter as large as a walnut and added 
to the steaming milk, and tuen added the whites of 
the eggs and salt and pepper to taste. We toasted 
five squares of bread, which we placed on a heated 
dish and covered each piece with a layer of the white 
sauce, then a layer of the yolks, and then the rest of 
the white sauce, and on that the remainder of the 
yolks. We sprinkled the top lightly with salt and 
pepper and heated it in the oven a minute or two be- 
fore serving. 

Omelet Souffle. — The very first thing we did in 
preparing an omelet souffl6 was to brush a quait 
baking dish withbutter and then to examine the oven 
to be sure it was hot. We then beat the whites of six 
eggs to a very stiff froth, and after beating the yolks 
of three eggs we added the yolks to the whites, and 
then added three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 
and the juice of one-half of a lemon ; after stirring 
carefully we quickly turned it into the baking dish 



194 THE WA Y WE DID A T COOKING SVIIOOL. 

and dredged it with powdered sugar. We allowed it 
to bake until a golden brown — about fifteen minutes. 
It must be served at once in the dish or paper cases in 
which it was baked, as the least draught of cold air 
will cause it to fall. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

V^iEGiNiA Eeed. 



THE WAT WE DID Al VOOKING SCHOOL, 195 



LETTEE XXII. 

March 22, 189-. 

My Dear Codsin Alethea: The professor gave us 
another lecture on " Proteids." 

Dr. Chittenden is the American authority on Pro- 
teids. 

Proteids are the nitrogenous food that goes to the 
building up of tissues in animals. Plants take their 
food in the form of nitrates. For plant crops 3'ou 
stimulate by top-dressing, which acts like apredigested 
food would on us — gives quick returns. The work of 
making nitrates for plants is done by the microbes. 
Between the dead animal and living plant comes the 
microbes which feed directly on nitrogen. 

Nitrogenous food makes tissue. The proteids com- 
prise globulin, coagulated albumin, coloring matter 
of the blood, mucin, a tough substance in mucus. The 
nucleins contain phosphorus. There is also a nuclein 
in yeast. There is another group of proteids called 
collogins or glue formers. Tliey are similar to the 
albumins, but are not nourishing, and are not subject 
to the same laws as blood, though they are interesting 
on account of their chemical composition. 

The proteids comprise albumin, found in blood, milk, 
eggs and plants ; vitellin, found in yolk of egg and 
squash; myosin, in muscles ; zein, in corn; nuclein, 
found in brain corpuscles and yeast ; also casein or 
calcium phosphate in milk, and elastin from tlie neck 
band of the ox. 

The proteids are transformed under the influence 
of ferments by the taking up of water. A proteid 
having taken up water splits. In the solution of a 
proteid in water tlie particles are not so close as when 
a ferment acts on theni and brings them together; 



196 THE WA T WE DID J 3' COOKING SCHOOL. 

tlien they split and become new substances. This 
taking up of water is called hj'drol^'sis, and the split- 
ting is called cleavage. Whenever a ferment has 
produced cleavage it slips away from that part and is 
ready to attack another. 

Stomach indigestion is not the same as intestinal. 
Starch is acted on by the ferment, ptyalin, in tiie 
saliva. The digestive fluid of the stomach is acid, but 
not decidedly so until after digestion has commenced 
— sometimes not for thirty minutes, so starch has a 
chance to become digested. 

Lactic acid not resulting from the food, but as 
secreted by the stomach, is an indication of cancer of 
the stomach. The Ewald " trial-meal," for detecting 
lactic acid in the stomach, consists of a Vienna roll 
and weak tea. This would cause lactic acid, so is no 
test of cancer. 

The stomach digestion is preparatory, while the 
intestinal is thorough. After starch is converted into 
maltose and passes througli the wall of the digestive 
tract, it goes back to dextrose, not the same as it was, 
but another. There are six forms of dextrose. There 
are ten forms of glucose and thirty forms of sugar 
known. 

After proteids are converted into peptones, and are 
absorbed by the lacteais, the same as the sugar, they 
are changeil into albumin. 

The liver is a filter to cleanse the blood, but cannot 
take out everything. 

Hydrochloric is the acid of the stomach, and when 
it is deficient, substances rot and cause headache and 
eructation. 

Acetic, lactic and butyric acids are only formed 
from food during digestion. These acids are some- 
times formed there by microbes, but in other cases 
they are not so formed. 

What is cinnamon ? How is it prepared ? Cinnamon 
is the dried inner or true bark of a small evergreen 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SOHQOL. 197 

tree of the Laurel family, native of Ceylon. The bark 
is stripped from two-year-old shoots and slightlj"- 
fermented and then dried. Cassia buds are the unex- 
panded flower buds of the cinnamon laurel, and are 
thought to retain the flavor better than cinnamon 
when heated. There is also another variety of the 
laurel whose bark, when treated as cinnamon, retains 
the strength of the cinnamon flavor longer than the 
true cinnamon, and is called cassia. 

Where is it principally cultivated? In the East 
Indies and China. 

What other spice is usually mixed with cinnamon 
before exportation ? Black pepper. 

What is ginger! Where and how does it grow,? 
Ginger is the rhizome of Zinsiber offiehialis, a reedlike 
plant now grown in the East and West Indies and 
Africa. Fresh or green ginger consists of the young 
shoots of the rhizome, which are scraped and boiled 
in a syrup. 

What is Jamaica ginger? Jamaica ginger is ginger 
from Jamaica, and is considered the best. When 
prepared for medicine, an extract is made from the 
whole root which makes it dark colored, and alcohol is 
added. The best ground ginger is made from the 
center of the root or rhizome, after the outside has 
been scraped off; it is then washed and dried, which 
causes the ground ginger to be light-colored. 

What are its principal uses? Ginger is used prin- 
cipally in medicine and as a flavorer in cooking. 

What are mustard seeds? Seeds obtained from 
Brojssica dlha and Brassica nigra, members of the 
Mustard family, which are found growing wild in 
many parts of this country and Europe. 

What is the difference between brown and white mus- 
tard ? Brown mustard is the seed of the Brassica 
nigra, wiiich have a more pungent taste and are much 
Siiialler than the seeds of the white mustard or Bras- 
sica alha. 

What is mustard flour, and what are its principal 
uses? Mustard flour is obtained by grinding the 



198 TEE WAY WE DID AT OOOEINO SCHOOL. 

black and whfte mustard seeds. It is used as a condi- 
ment, and also as a medicine. 

What are hops ? For what are they used ? Hops 
are the strobiles ot ihe Humulus lupulus, a. gen\xs oi 
the Nettle family. Plops abound in a bitter principle, 
and also contain an astringent principle, and are used 
in brewing. Young shoots or buds of hops are used 
like asparagus. 

What is the difference between isinglass and gelatin ? 
Isinglass is made from the swimming bladder of fish, 
usually of the sturgeon. Gelatin is made from the 
bones, skin and tendons of animals. 

What is glycerin ? Glycerin is an alcohol, a color- 
less, viscid liquid, whose solvent power ranges next to 
water. It has a sweet taste and absorbs water from 
the air, but does not exist in fats, though it is obtained 
from their decomposition. 

What is potato starch ? Flour ? Potato flour or 
starch is the starch obtained from the potato. 

What is oat-flour ? Oat-flour is obtained by grind- 
ing the seeds of the Avena sativa after they have been 
deprived of their husk or outer skin. It is not so 
white as whoaten flour and tastes at first sweet and 
then rough and somewhat bitter. 

How many tablespoonfuls of wheaten flour will 
thicken a pint of milk for sauce ? Two. 

liow do you make French salad dressing? French 
salad dressing is made by shaking in a jar until prop- 
erly emulsified three tablespoonfuls of olive oil with 
one tablespoonful of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt and one- fourth teaspoonful of black pepper. 

What is mayonnaise ? Mayonnaise is a dressing 
for salads. The general rule is to serve mayonnaise 
dressing with cliicken and fish salads and French 
dressing with vegetable salads. 

How do you pull candy ? After the candy has 
been boiled and cooled somewhat by being poured on 
a marble slab or platter, take the candy in the hands 
and throw it over a hook and pull, continuing so to do 
until the candy appears creamy. The hand§ must be 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 199 

well oiled before beginning or they will blister in 
holding on to the candy while pulling. 

How do you thaw meat or poultry ? Place the 
meat or poultry in a moderate temperature, say 40° 
or 50°. After being thawed it must be cooked soon, 
as it is liable to spoil easily. 

How do you use a salamander? A salamander 
looks like a lid with a long handle. Heat the round 
or lid part until red-hot, then hold it over whatever 
you are preparing until it is browned the shade 
desired. 

What is gumbo fillet powder ? It is a powder made 
from the finely pulverized leaves of Sassafras offiieinale 
of the Laurel family, which have been gathered and 
dried while very young and tender. 

What is vanilla, and for what used? Vanilla is a 
preparation made from the seeds of an orchid called 
FaTC«7to^Z<mifoZm, indigenous to tropical America. It 
is used to impart flavor. 

How do you make vanilla sugar? Pulverize one 
ounce of vanilla beans with one pound of granulated 
sugar. Sift through a hair sieve and keep in a closely 
fastened glass jar. 

How do you make a jelly bag ? Fold a square of 
flannel diagonally through the center and sew firmly, 
felling it from one acute angle to the right-angled 
corner — that is, where the two square corners come 
together. The top should be bound or hemmed, and 
two or three loops attached to it, so it can be hung 
up. 

What is a pastry bag ? What are its uses ? A 
pastry bag is made of a piece of strong muslin twelve 
inches square, having the same shape as a jelly bag. 
The point of the bag is c,ut off so a pastry tube will 
fit in it. The bag is used to hold paste so it can be 
forced out in whatever shape desired. 

How do you whip cream? Chill the cream and 
turn it into a thoroughly chilled small crank churn; 
turn the crank, and in a very few minutes tlie cream 
will be perfectly whipped. If no churn is at hand, 



200 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

stand the vessel containing the chilled cream in a 
vessel of ice water and whip the cream with two forks, 
placing one fork on each side of the middle finger of 
the right hand, using the same motion as in whipping 
the whites of eggs. 

JS^Ew Century Pudding. — In preparing a New Cen- 
tury pudding we shredded and chopped fine one cup 
of suet, stoned one cup of raisins, and looked over 
one cup of Purity washed currants. We beat the 
yolks of two eggs, the cup of suet and one cup of sugar 
until light, and then added one cup of milk and three 
cupfuls of flour, and beat all until smooth ; then we 
added one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt and the well-beaten whites of two eggs. 
We added one teaspoonful of baking powder, and 
after mixing well we added the cup of currants and 
the cup of raisins, which had been well floured, and 
when the fruit was stirred through we turned the 
batter into a well-oiled mould, and put its lid on and 
boiled it constantly for three hours. In boiling pud- 
dings, if the water boils away — evaporates — add more 
boiling water. The pudding was turned from the 
mould and served hot with hard sauce. 

Haed Sauce. — In making hard sauce we beat two 
ounces of butter to a cream and gradually added one 
cup of powdered sugar, and after beating until very 
light we added the white of one eg^; when we had 
beaten all until light we added the white of another 
•egg and beat again until all was -very light and frothy, 
then we added one teaspoonful of vanilla, or gradually 
added one tablespoonful of brandy. After beating 
again we heaped the sauce on a small dish, sprinkled 
grated nutmeg over it and put on the ice to harden. 
When hard it was ready to be used. 

Batter Pudding with Cherries. — In making batter 
pudding with cherries we beat three eggs, without 
separating, until light ; then added one pint of milk 
and three and one-half cupfuls of flour, and beat until 
smooth. After whicli we added one tablespoonful of 



THE WAT WE PTl) AT COOKINO 8VU0OL. 201 

melted butter, one half teaspoonful of salt and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. We drained the juice 
from one pint of stoned cherries, and after dredging 
them with flour stirred them into the batter, which 
was then ready to be turned into a well-oiled pudding 
mould. After putting on the cover, the mould was 
placed in a pot of boiling water and boiled steadily 
for three hours. This pudding was served with 
Fairy butter. 

Faiey or Nun's Buttee. — Fairy or Nun's butter is 
made the same as hard sauce, only instead of using 
one tablespoonful of brandy for flavoring, one table- 
spoonful, of sherry is used. 

Wafer Pudding. — In making Wafer pudding we put 
one pint of milk on in a double boiler, and when 
steaming hot we added one-half pound of butter and 
stirred until it was dissolved, and then added at once 
one-half pint of flour, and stirred it well for five 
minutes. We removed it from the fire, and when cool 
added to it the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of 
four eggs which had been beaten together until very 
light, and then beat the mixture ten minutes longer. 
We covered it and kept it in a warm place one hour. 
We then put one tablespoonful of the mixture into 
each of the well-oiled gem pans or muffin rings and 
baked them in a quick oven forty minutes. They 
were served hot with Foamy sauce. 

Foamy Sauce. — In making Foamy sauce we beat 
two ounces of butter to a cream and gradually added 
one cup of powdered sugar and continued to beat it 
until white, when we added the unbeaten white of 
one egg ; after beating well we added the unbeaten 
white of another egg and beat again until all was 
very light. Immediately before serving- we added 
one gill of sherry or one teaspoonful of vanilla for 
flavoring; then added one. gill of boiling water and 
placed the vessel containing the sauce in another con- 
taining boiling water over the fire and stirred the 
sauce until frothy, but no longer. The sauce was 
served at once,, as it soon loses its lightness. 



202 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Apple Sponge.— In preparing Apple Sponge we 
covered one-half of a box of gelatin with cold water 
and left it to soak while we pared, cored and sliced 
one pound of apples. We poured one half pint of 
boiling water on one pound of sugar, and when they 
liad boiled until clear (we had removed all the scum 
as it came to the top) we added the apples. When 
the apples had cooked until tender we added the 
gelatin to them and pressed them through, a sieve, 
added the grated rind of one lemon and the juice of 
two lemons, and stirred until cold and slightly 
thickened. We beat the whites of three eggs until 
very stiff, stirred them into tiie thickened apples and 
continued to beat until the sponge had thickened so it 
retained the impression of the beater; then we turned 
it into a moultl which had been thoroughly chilled by 
holding ice water and stood it in a cold place to stiffen. 
Apple sponge was served in a dessert-dish with vanilla 
sauce poured around it. 

Vanilla Sauce. — In making Vanilla sauoe we put 
one pint of milk on in a double boiler, and when 
steaming hot we added the yolks of four eggs which 
had been bealen very light with two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, and then slirred it two minutes. We re- 
moved it from the fire and added one teaspdonful of 
vanilla, and when cold it was ready to be used. 

Peach Sponge. — Peach Sponge also is very good. 
It is made the same as the Apple Sponge, only one 
|)i)und of peaches is used instead of the one pound of 
nppios. 

Coffee Bavarian Ckeam. — In preparing Coffee 
i].iv:irian Cream we covered one-half box of gelatin 
»itli cold water, and after it had soaked one-half hour 
we poured over it one cup of strong boiling coffee, 
whicii had been ma<ie from three tablespoonfuls of 
ground coffee and three-fourths of a pint of boiling 
water. We added one cupful of sugar and stirred 
until it was dissolved, and then pojured it through a 
sieve into a tin vessel. While it was cooling we 
whipped one pint of cream. When cool we added 



TntS WAY WE nlD AT (JOOKINO SCHOOL 203 

one-half pint of milk, one teaspoonful of vanilla and 
the whipped cream, and stirred carefully until 
thoroughly mixed ; then turned it into a mould to 
harden. It should be stirred until it will retain the 
outline of the beater, or the gelatin may be found to 
have settled to the bottom before hardening. In 
making gelatin desserts, if the tm vessel containing 
the mixture is placed in a pan of ice water it will not 
require so much stirring to thoroughly chill the mix- 
ture so it will retain any impression made upon it. 
The mould containing a gelatin dessert should be kept 
in a cold place. 

Caramel Bavaeian Ceeam. — Caramel Bavarian 
Cream is made in the Fame way as the Coffee Bavarian, 
only using two tablespoon fuls of caramel and one gill 
of sherry instead of the coffee, and one pint of milk 
instead of one-.half pint. 

Snow Pudding.^ — In making a Snow puddmg we 
covered one-half box of gelatin with cold water, and 
after it had soaked one-half hour we poured over it 
one pint of boiling water and added two cupfuls of 
sugar; after stirring until the sugar was dissolved \ye 
added the juice of three lemons and strained all into 
a tin basin, which we stood in ice water. When cold 
we beat it with an egg-beater until white as snow, 
then stirred in the whites of four eggs which had 
been beaten to a stiff froth. The mould had been 
thoroughly chilled by holding in cold water. We 
poured out the water, turned the pudding into the 
mould, and put it in a cold place to harden, which will, 
require about four hours. Two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry improves this pudding for some people. Snow 
pudding is served with a vanilla sauce poured around 
it. The sauce is composed of the yolks of four eggs, 
one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla and 
one quart of milk. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

TiROiNiA Eebd, 



204 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKlNO SGUOOL. 



LETTER XXIII. 

March 28, 189-. 

My Deae Cousin Alethea : The professor has de- 
livered his last lecture before our class, and I have 
copied my report oi all of them for you excepting the 
one on "JDisinfectants," which I will now copy. 

Steam and boiling water are the best disinfectants, 
but cannot always be used. 

Sulphur fumes is the oldest way for disinfecting a 
room, and is sure, if it touches the microbes. Put the 
sulphur in a pot and put the pot on briclcs, which are 
placed in a tub containing water enough to more than 
cover the bricks. Four pounds of sulphur will disin- 
fect one tliousand cubic feet of space. Use the brim- 
stone in lumps and moisten it with one-half cupful of 
alcohol, though two tablespoonfuls would do. Cover 
the pot with a coal sieve to prevent any from popping 
out and setting fire to the room. Of course tiie doors 
and windows must be closed before applying a lighted 
tiiper to the alcohol and sulphur. 

Water boiled one or two minutes is safe for drink- 
ing purposes. In boiling linen be sure that it ail boils ; 
punch down well and boil some time. Dry heat is 
■•\\<o good, but it must be far above 212°, the same as 
i 1 any other baking. Delicate fabrics could not stand 
this, so subject them to formalin, which is volatile and 
not free from poisonous action. 

A person may acquire typhoid fever by using in- 
fected water or milk. 

It is best to put the disinfectant in the vessel before 
the patient uses it, and also cover at once with lime, 
air-slacked, adding the lime freely. Corrosive subli- 
mate is also good, but it is very dangerous, being a 
deadly poison. 



THE WA r WM DID A T COOKING SCHOOL. 305 

Superior to the above is chlorid of liine, which 
comes in paper cases. It deteriorates if exposed to 
the air. Sometimes it is pasty and has a strong odor. 
It is then of an inferior quality. Drjer and less odor- 
ous is better, but is good any way on discharges. Be 
careful with it on cloth. Put one or two quarts of 
water in a bucket, then add one pound of chlorated 
lime. Mash and stir with a stick till cream\', then add 
more water. This has great power as a deodorizer and 
disinfectant, or we can pour ofif the liquid, which is the 
best part. If to two gallons of it you add two pounds 
of washing soda it would keep longer and not spoil 
the clothes so much as lime. It is sometimes called 
Labarraque's solution. 

Copperas is a deodorizer, but not a disinfectant. 

Disinfectants should be employed singly, so as not 
to destroy each other's power. For the same reason 
soaps should not be used with ammonia. 
Hydrogen dioxid, .three percent., is strong enough, 
but it must be a good article. If it goes off with a 
bang when being opened it is bad, because it is decom- 
posing. If of a good quality it can be kept for months 
if it is kept quiet. This must not be mixed with other 
disinfectants, such as chlorid of lime. 

Alcohol is also useful as a disinfectant. Iodoform 
is sometimes used to disinfect wounds. 

The naphthols are used to prevent germs from grow- 
ing, and so serve as disinfectants in some cases. 

The questions we are having now are decidedly mis- 
cellaneous, but we will soon be through them. 

How do you glace fruits? Boil one-half pound of 
sugar with one-fourth of a cup of water without stir- 
ring after the sugar has all dissolved. Test the con- 
sistency occasionally, and whenever it can be broken 
quickly upon being plunged in cold water, and be 
brittle' without being at all sticky, it should bo removed 
from the fire and have two teaspoonfuis of lemon juice 
added to keep the syrup from granulating. The vessel 
containing the syrup should be placed in a vessel of 



206 TEE WAT WE DID AT GOOEINO SCHOOL. 

hot water, so as to keep it in a liquid condition wbile 
the fruit is being dipped. The fruit must be thor- 
oughly dry before dipping, and after dipping it should 
be placed on oiled paper and be kept in a warm, dry 
place to dry. Never attempt to glace on a damp day 
if you wish to meet Avith success. 

What is the- best method for cleaning currants? 
Rub well one quart of currants in one cup of flour and 
then sift them in a colander until all the stems have 
been removed. Wash them well in several cold waters, 
and when thoroughly drained put them to dry on flat 
dishes in a warm place. 

Why does boiling water poured over dry gelatin 
-toughen it? The chemical effect of heat upon iibrin 
is to harden the fibrin, and as gelatin is obtained from 
the fibrous tissue found in bones, ligaments, tendons, 
skin and various membranes of animals, of course tiie 
effect of the heat would be the same. 

What are orange baskets, and how are they made? 
Orange baskets are made from the rind of oranges by 
cutting the rind in the form of a basket. The pulp is 
all removed and the basket filled with cubes of jelly. 

How do you blanch and salt almonds? Pour boil 
ing water on almonds that have been shelled and let 
tiiem stand five minutes. Remove the skins. Add a 
little oil and put them in the oven and stir until brown. 
Remove from the oven and dredge with salt and turn 
tliem out to cool. 

What is larding? How is it done? What meats 
are best krded ? Larding is inserting fine strips of fat 
pork into other meat. It is done by cuttmg the pork 
fat lengthwise into strips and inserting one end of a 
strip into a larding needle, which is drawn through 
the meat to be larded, leaving each end of the fat pro- 
jecting from the meat. Meats deficient in fat are best 
larded. 

What are lardoons? Lardoons are the fine strips of 
fat, taken from next the skin along the fiank of the 
hos:. that are used in lard in ji:. 

Describe a larding needle and trussing needle ? A 



THE WAY W/i DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. a07 

lardinf!^ needle is a long, slender funnel, s|)lit at tlie 
large end, into wliich the lardoon is slijtped, and the 
splitf strips being compressed around the lardoon, hold 
it until the needle is pushed tlirough the meat. A 
trussing needle is a long needle with a three-sided 
point. A truffle needle is made on the principle of a 
fine syringe. 

Why is lard better for greasing cake pans than but- 
ter? Because lard does not burn so quickly as butter. 

Should you measure flour before or after sifting? 
After sifting, unless the recipe says to do otlierwise. 

What is baking powder ? Baking powder is a prepa- 
ration for imparting lightness to the ingredients with 
which it is mixed. It is composed of an acid and an 
alkali and a filler to keep them from acting on each 
other. 

Give a formula for baking powder made from tartaric 
acid. Another from cream tartar. Three-fourths of 
a pound of tartaric acid, one pound of soda and one 
pound of starch. One pound cream tartar, one-half 
pound of soda and one pound of filling, either flour or 
starch. 

If you put a cold article in an oven while a cake is 
baking what will happen to the cake ? The cake will 
chill and fall, though if the cake is nearly done the 
chilling will cause it to shrink from the sides of the 
pan. 

How should you look at a cake while it is baking? 
Look quickly, closmg the door without jarring. 

How can "you tell when a cake is done ? By testing 
with a splint, or by seeing if it responds to the touch, 
or when it does not tick loudly it is done. 

Do cakes containing butter require a moderate or a 
hot oven? Cakes without butter? Cakes containing 
butter require a moderate oven. ' Cakes without tautter 
require a quick oven. 

How should you turn a cake from the pan when 
done, and where should you place it to cool ? Upside 
down on a towel or sieve in a place where a draft will 
not strike it. A delicate cake si)ould be turned upside 
<Jown on fi rest and Jeft to cool in the pan, 



208 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Give recipe for cake without eggs. Make a cream 
of two ounces of butter and one and one-half cups of 
sugar, and add one cup of milk and two cups of flour, 
and beat well. Add one-fourth of a teaspoon ful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of flavoring and one teaspoonful 
of baking powder. Beat thoroughly and bake about 
half an hour in a moderate oven. 

What are cookies? Apees? Cookies are small, 
flat, hard, sweetened cakes. Apees are Ann Page's 
cakes, and are small cakes somewhat riclier than 
cookies. 

AVhat are buns? Eusks ? Both are light, soft, 
sweetened cakes or biscuits, and are made from yeast 
dough to which has been added butter and eggs, and 
have the top glazed with sugar and milk. The buns 
have spice and fruit added. Hot, cross buns contain 
spice and have a cross cut on the top. 

llow do eggs produce lightness? The albumin is 
elastic and entangles the air during the beating, which 
it holds till the heat of the oven hardens the mixture 
and drives the air from the bubbles. 

What produces the lightness in pastry ? The light- 
ness in pastry is caused by the expansion of the air 
between the layers made in rolling and folding the 
dough. 

Why must starch be cooked? Starch is cooked to 
soften the cellulose or membrane surrounding the 
starch grains, so that it will burst, and then when 
eaten we will have a chance to digest it. 

What changes are produced in fat by heat? The 
fat melts and its natural water evaporates, and then 
if heated too long it is partly changed to a fatty acid 
which is irritating; therefore food for the sick should 
be very carefully prepared. 

What may be said of the digestibility of pastry and 
puddings? They are very hard to digest, part indee<l 
being indigestible. The fat or oil encases the starch 
and prevents the cells from bursting. The fat is not 
digested until it reaches the intestine, and the starch- 
cells being unbroken cannot bo digested. 



THE W'A Y WIC DID A T COOKING SCHOOL. 209 

What is apotpie? A potpie is composed of meat 
and pastry boiled together. 

Layer Cake. — In making a layer cake we oiled 
three deep jelly-tins and lined them with paper, and 
then measured out the mgredients very carefully before 
we beat one half-pound of butter to a cream and 
gradually beat in one-half pound of sugar — powdereii 
sugar being preferred, as it makes a lio;hter cake than 
granulated sugar. We continued beating while we 
added the beaten yolks of five eggs and then the well- 
beaten whites of the live egjfs. We had sifted tu'o 
ounces of cornstarch with six ounces of flour and one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, so we added them to 
the butter, sugar and eggs, beat them well, and then 
measured and added one teaspoonful of vanilla and 
two tablespoon fu Is of sherry ; when well mixed we 
turned the batter into the jelly-tins and baked them 
fifteen minutes in a moderately quick oven. When 
done we turned the layers out on a cloth, and after 
removing the papers we left them to cool. We never 
handle a cake while hot. We made the IHling by 
boiling one-half pound of powdered sugar with one 
-gill of water. We beat the whites of two eggs until 
very stiff, and when the S3'rup formed a heavy thread 
as it dropped from a spoon, we poured the syrup over 
the beaten whites of the eggs, beating all the time, 
and continued to beat them until cold and thick. Wo 
added one teaspoonful of vanilla, and as the layers 
were cold we poured the filling over one layer, having 
it to extend to within one-half inch of the edge, and 
placed another Idyer on top, spread the remainder of 
che filling on it, and put on the other layer of the 
cake, and sprinkled the top with powdered sugar. 

Spice Cake. — In making spice cake we seeded and 
chopped one pound of raisins. We dissolved one 
level teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in one table- 
spoon fnl of boiling water and stirred it into one-half 
capful of inolasses, which we turned foaming into a 
granite or Japanese mixing-bowl, and at once added 



210 THE WA Y WE DID A T COOKING SVIIOOL. 

one cupful of thich sour cream ; after stirring we added 
one cupful of brown suo;ar, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt and three and one-half cupfuis of pastry flour, and 
beat it thoroughly. We then added one tablespoon ful 
of ground cinnamon, one tablespoonful of ground 
allspice and the pound of raisins, whicli had been 
well floured. After stirring we turned it into an 
oiled tin and baked it one hour in a moderate oven. 
We always use a wooden spoon in beating or stirring 
a cake. 

Chocolate Cake, — In making a chocolate cake we 
dissolved two ounces of chocolate in five tablespoon 
fuls of boiling water. We beat four ounces of butter 
to a cream and gradually added one and one-half 
cupfuis of sugar, and continued to beat while we added 
the beaten yolks of four eggs and then one-half cup of 
milk. We also added the melted chocolate and two 
cupfuis of pastry flour, and after giving it a vigorous 
beating we added the whites of four eggs, which had 
had one-fourth of a level teaspoonful of salt sprinkled 
over them, and tlien been beaten to a stiff froth. 
After stirring the mixture carefully we added one 
teaspoonful of vanilla and one heapmg teaspoonful of 
bakmg powder, and when well blended we turned it 
into a paper-lined greased cake pan and baked it forty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven. Whenever pastry 
fiour could not be obtained for use m making cakes 
we used a light winter wheat flour. 

Angel Food, — In making Angel Food, as in the 
making of ever^^thing else, we measured all the in- 
gredients very carefully before beginning to unite 
them. We sifted one and one-half cupfuis of granulated 
sugar four times and sifted one cupful of sifted pastry 
flour five times. After putting the whites of eleven 
eggs on a large platter we sprinkled over tliera one- 
half of a level teaspoonful of cream of tartar and beat 
them until they were so stiff that they would not 
move when the platter was turned upside down. We 
then mixed the sugar carefully with the eggs and 
gradually added the flour and stirred only enough to 



THU WAY WE DID AT GGOKTNU SCHOOL. 211 

mix all together; after mixing tlirougli it one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla we turned it into an ungreased pan 
and baked it forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 
When done we inverted the pan on a rest and let it so 
remain until the cake fell out. 

Sand Takts. — In making Sand Tarts we beat one- 
half pounti of butter with one pound of granuhiteil 
sugar until creamy ; tlicn aiUled the vf>lUs of threi; 
eggs that" liad been beaten vei'y light, and afterward 
added the well-beaten whites of two eggs. When <ili 
was well blended we stirred in enough pastry Hour to 
make a stiff paste. We rolled the paste out on a 
pastry board, and after cutting the tarts out witli a 
round cutter we placed them in a baking pan so they 
would not touch each other, and baked them in a 
moderate oven until a light brown. 

Cream PuI'Ts. — In making Cream Puffs we put two 
ounces of butter in one-liiilf pint of water, and' when 
it boiled we a<lded four ounces of flour; leaving it 
over the fire, we stirred steadily until it stuck so to- 
gether that it formed a ball whicii left the pan and 
stuck to the wooden spoon. We removed it from tlie 
stove, and when cool added one wiiole unbeaten egg 
and beat until it was all well blended ; then we iidded 
another unbeaten egg and again beat until all was 
well blended, and so continued to do until four eggs 
had been added. Alter the la,st or fourth egg had 
been beaten in we beat the mixture vigorously for five 
minutes. We kept the mixture in a warm place, stir- 
ring it occasionally, and at the end of thirty minutes 
we put it by the tabiespoonful on well-oiled tins, plac 
ing them so they would not tQuch each other by two 
inches. They were baked in rather a quick oven 
from twenty to forty-five minutes. When done they 
will feel perfectly light when they are picked up. 
They must be watched closely, as they burn quickly. 
When the puffs were cold we made an incision at one 
side, so as to insert the pastry tube, and filled each 
puff with the filling. 

The FiLLiNG.^ln making the filling we put one- 



tj 



212 THE WA Y WE DID Al' aOOKINQ SCHOOL. 

half pint of milk on in a double boiler, and while it 
lieated we beat four eggs, yolks and whites together, 
with four tablespoonfuls of sugar; after adding to 
them one tablespoon ful of cornstarch we stirred all 
into the steaming milk and continued to stir until 
rather thick, when we removed it from the stove and 
added to it one teaspoonful of vanilla, and stood it 
away to cool. When cold we put the filling in a 
pastry bag and filled the puffs. 

As you may wish some time to try a genuine East 
India curry powder, 1 will copy now two recipes 
wiiich 1 have received recently through friends from 
India. 

Calcutta CnuEY Powder. — One teaspoonful of 
turmeric, one tablespoonful of coriander seed, one 
tablespoon ful of poppy seed, one-half teasi)Oonful of 
ginger, one-fourth teaspoonful of red chillis, one-half 
teaspoonful of cumin seeil. Tiie seeds should be of 
the iinest quality and well dried. Pound them fine, 
sift and mix, and then bottle. 

CoERY Powder. — Pound, sift and mix twenty ounces 
of coriander, four ounces turmeric, one ounce cumin 
seed, one ounce fenugreek, one ounce mustard, two 
ounces dried ginger, one ounce dried chillis, two 
ounces poppy seed, two ounces cardamoms, two ounces 
cinnamon and two ounces garlic. When thoroughly 
mixed together, bottle and keep the bottle well 
corked. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

YiEGiNiA Heed. 



THE WA T WE DID A T COOKING SCHOOL. ^13 



LETTER XXIV. 

\pril 3, 189-. 

My Dear Cousin Alethea: We have had a lesson 
in " Scouring." Tiie married member of the class said 
it was one of the most beautiful lessons we have had. 
She realized the fact that it seems to be a satisfaction 
to a woman to make that which is dingy and ugly into 
something beautiful or as good as new. 

For scouring brass we used warm vinegar and salt, 
rubbing with a woolen cloth. Then we used birdsand 
and dissolved soap, which we washed off in hot water. 
"We polished it next with whiting and oil, still rubbing 
it with a woolen cloth, and then used a soft brush to 
remove any of the polish that had adhered to the 
ornamentation. For copper we used the same as for 
brass. The dissolved soap was merely cake or hard 
soap shaved down and made into the consistency of 
jelly by the addition of a little boiling water. 

To remove a grass stain we washed the spot in 
alcohol. 

For removing fruit stains we used dilute oxalic acid 
or chloride of lime, and afterward washed the acid or 
lime out in water, because, if left on any length of 
time, either one would eat a hole in the goods. 

For removing iron rust, salt and lemon juice are 
best. Cover the spot with the mixture and place in 
the sunshme. 

For scouring silver we used whiting and oil. Silver 
should be washed once a wee_k in hot suds and tlien 
dried with a cloth and polisiied with a chamois skin. 
To keep silver which is only used occasionally, wrap 
each piece in tissue paper and then place them in a 
cotton-flannel bag. 



214 THE WA T WE lUD A T COOKINO SCHOOL. 

To keep steel knives, dust each one thickly with 
starch, wrap with tissue paper, and place in cotton- 
flannel bags. 

Ivory handles should never be dipped in water, be- 
cause it not only discolors the ivory but is apt to loosen 
the handles. 

In cleaning cut glass we washed it well in hot suds 
with a brush. "We rinsed it in warm water and then 
covered it up in sawdust. We wiped it with a linuii 
towel and polished it with a soft-haired brush. 

For polishing windows we used alcohol, or alcoliol 
and whiting, and finished by rubbing with a chamois 
skin. 

For scouring tin we used bird or pewter sand and 
soft or dissolved soap and a flannel cloth ; then dipped 
it in a warm solution of salsoda water and rinsed it 
immediately in clear water. "We polished it, with 
whiting and a flannel cloth, and after washing and 
wiping we put it on the back part of the stove to dry 
thoroughly. 

For removing grease stains we added as much sal- 
soda to hot water as the water would dissolve. To 
cleanse graniteware we stood it in the hot salsoda 
solution until the stains disappeared, when rubbed 
with an old brush. "We then washed it in clear hot 
water and wiped it with a cloth. 

In removing grease stains from wood we took the 
salsoda solution when cold and covered the stains, 
leaving them to soalc a while. We then scrubbed 
them with a brush, making the strokes of the brush 
with the grain of the wood. 

Describe a perfect kitchen. The room is as small as 
will contain everything needed. The walls and ceil- 
ing are painted and the floor is made of tile or hard 
wood. The windows are made to raise and lower 
easily, and so accessible that they may be cleaned 
readily. Rugs are placed where needed, and there is 
a table with zinc-covered top, maile light, so as to be 
easily moved wherever wanted; and everything is 
most conveniently arranged for the cook. 



THR WA Y WK DID AT COOKINQ SCHOOL. 215 

What food should be kept in a refrigerator? A cel- 
lar? A dry closet? A dark closet? A light closet? 
Perishable things should be kept in a refrigerator, and 
the odorous things should be placed on the top shelf. 
Bulky articles and vegetables should be kept in the 
cellar. Canned goods should be kept in a dark closet. 
There is nothing that should necessarily be kept in a 
light closet. 

Why do foods spoil? Foods spoil because the natu- 
ral water they contain aids the microbes in their work. 

Wlsat kind of refrigerator is best? One lined with 
wood and luiving dry air around it. Keep the venti- 
lation good. Wash ont witii water and nitre in the 
})roportion of one teaspoon fu! of the spirits of nitre to 
one gallon of water. Salt will kill snails and slugs. 

What kind of diet is best for brain-workers? Easily 
digested foods, rich in nitrogen and pi)os[)horus or 
phosphates. 

What would be the consequence of an exclusive 
meat diet? It would make a person nervous, the same 
as a stimulant, and would bring on gout and rheuma- 
tism. Meat aids in the building up of muscles and 
nerves, but if taken raw it is apt to breed tapeworms. 

Why does it take a polished surface longer to heat 
than a rough one? A polished surface refracts heat, 
but when heated it retains the heat longer than a 
rough surface. 

Name all the ve<jetable acids and tell in what they 
may be found. Malic, citric, oxalic, tartaric, tannic, 
])russic and gallic. Malic acid is found in pears, plums, 
peaches, quinces, apples, blackberries, strawberries, 
raspberries, elderberries, pineapples, cherries, currants, 
gooseberries, potatoes and tomatoes. Citric acid is 
found in the lemon, orange, citron, lime, shaddock, 
tamarind, pineapple, cranberries, and mixed with malic 
acid in gooseberries and tomatoes, red currants, straw- 
berries, raspberries and cherries. Oxalic acid is found 
in sorrel, rhubarb and gooseberries. Tartaric acid is 
found in grapes. Prussic acid is found in the kernels 
of cherries, plums, peaches and almonds. Tannic acid 



216 THE WAY WE DTD AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

is found in grape seeds and some apples. Gallic acid is 
found with tannic acid in some apples. Sulphuric and 
phosphoric acids are found in small quantities in apples. 
Acetic acid is found in the juice of some plants and in 
overripe fruit. 

What flesh contains most fibrin ? Beef. 

What is glue? Glue is a gelatinous principle found 
in the hoofs, horns, skin, cartilages and sinews of old 
animals. 

What are leguminous seeds ? Seeds growing in pods 
which contain legumin, a substance somewhat different 
from vegetable casein. Beans, peas and lentils are 
leguminous seeds. 

Why cannot you make bread from bean meal ? 
Bread cannot be made from bean meal because such 
meal is deficient in gluten. 

Why does a steel knife blacken in cutting apples? 
On account of the acids the apple contains, especially 
malic acid. 

Why do fruits decay quick!}'? Fruits spoil because 
the large amount of natural water or juice they con- 
tain enables the microbes to live on it and the oxygen 
of the airj and in so doing the microbes destroy the 
fruit. 

How do ripe and unripe fruits differ in chemical 
composition ? The unripe fruit contains starch, a large 
amount of water and acids, a small amount of sugar 
and some pectose; as the fruit ripens the starch is 
transformed into sugar, the pectose becomes pectin, or 
something similar, and the acids partly disappear. 

What so-called " weeds" are edible? Dock, sorrel, 
dandelion, plantain, poke, kale, mustard, lamb's quar- 
ter, cowslip and watercress. 

What is asparagin i What vegetables contain it ] 
Asparagin is a white crystaliizable principle, and is the 
active principle found in asparagus. It is also found 
in potatoes, 

What gives flesh its red color? Iron in the hemo- 
globin. 

What causes dough to sour? Can this sourness be 



THE WA T Wn Din A T COOKING 8UH00L. 211 

removed? The fermentation in the dough has gone 
beyond the alcoholic stage into the acetic stage. Tlie 
sourness may be partly corrected by adding a little 
carbonate of soda or carbonate of ammonia. 

Why cannot you use yeast with molasses? Yeast 
refuses to grow in the presence of an acid. 

What is dextrin ? Dextrin is a gum obtained by 
heating'starch to a temperature of three hundred and 
twenty degrees. It is soluble in water but insoluble 
in alcohol. It was discovered by a tire in a starch 
factory. 

What is rennet? How does it thicken milk? Rennet 
is the fourth stomach of the calf. Its acid coagulates 
the casein of the milk. 

What is whey? Whey is the liquid part of milk 
left from the separation of the curd. It contains the 
sugar and the salts of the milk, and also a little casein 
and fatty matter. 

What is clotted cream ? Clotted cream differs from 
ordinary cream in being of a solid consistence, and 
though still sweet it has been raised by heat. When 
you can see the shape of the bottom of the pan it is 
clotted sufficiently. 

Bouillon. — la making bouillon we removed all the 
fat and gristle from two pounds of lean beef, then run 
the beef through a Perfection culter and put the finely 
ground meat in a granite soup kettle with one quart 
of cold water, and after covering the kettle closely we 
placed it on the back part of the range. At the end 
of two hours we placed the kettle over a good lire 
and skimmed as soon as it boiled. After skiuiiniiig 
we moved it back a little and left it to simmer gently 
for three hours. We then added one small onion 
sliced, one bay leaf, one sprig of parsley and one stalk 
of celery, or one-half teaspoonful of celery seed when 
the celery cannot be obtained, and left it to simmer 
one hour longer. We washed the shell of one egg and 
then broke it carefully, so <as to have only the white 
in a bowl, to which we added the crushed shell and 



318 THE WA Y WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

one-hiilf cupful of cold water, and beat it until 
tlioroiigldy mixed; then added tliein to tlie contents 
of the souj) kettle and let it boil hard for ten minutes. 
We then added one gill of cokl water, and when it 
had boiled live minutes longer we removed the kettle 
from the fire and strained its contents through a 
flannel bag. We added salt to taste and colored it 
with caramel in about the proportion of one-half tea- 
spoonful of caramel to one quart of bouillon, and it 
was ready to be servetl. 

. Caramel. — In making caramel, which is used for 
coloring soups, sauces and puddings, we put one cupful 
of granulated sugar in a granite pan and stirred the 
sugar until it melted and browned. When it boiled 
and began to smoke we added one cupful of boiling- 
water. We stirred it, and when it had boiled a minute 
we poured it into a bottle, which must be kept well 
corked. 

Consomme. — In making consomme we selected two 
pounds of lean beef from the under part of the round 
and two pounds of veal from the knuckle, and cut the 
meat into pieces about one inch square. We put two 
ounces of butter in a soup kettle, and -when it had 
browned we added the meat, which we stirred over 
the lire until it also was a nice brown ; we then put a 
cover on the kettle and left it to simmer on the back 
of the range. At the end of thirty minutes we added 
two quarts of cold water and left it to simmer four 
hours longer. We then added one bav leaf, one stalk 
of celery, one sprig of parsley, one small carrot and 
one onion. The onion and carrot had, of course, been 
peeled before being sliced. We allowed it to simmer 
one hour longer, then strained it through two thick- 
nesses of clieesecloth which had been wrung out of 
cold water and spread over a colander or sieve. We 
stood it in a cold place, to cool: When cold we re- 
moved all the fiit from the surface, first by using a 
spoon and afterward by pieces of soft paper which we 
spread on the top of the liquid. The consomme was 
then ready to be reheiited ai.d served, or it can be 
clarified and coloretl the same as bouillon 



TBB WAt WB DID AT OOOSING SOmoi. 219 

In serving Consomme a la Royal, a custard is made 
from two eggs beaten together with two tablespoon- 
fuls of the consomm6, and a dash of salt and red 
pepper added. The Hat p;\n containing the custard is 
placed in another pan containing water and then 
baked. When done the custard is cut in some fancy 
sliiipe and put iu the soup tureen with the heated con- 
soraraS just before it is served. 

Mock Bisque Soup. — In making mock bisque soup 
we put one pint can of tomatoes on to stew and added 
one bay leaf, one sprig of parsley and one blade of 
mace, and left thoin to stew fifteen minutes, while we 
put one quart of milk on in a double boiler, and, rub- 
bing one large tiiblespoonful of butter witli two 
tablespoon fu is of flour, added them to the heated 
milk, stirring continuously until it tliickened. We 
pressed tlie tomatoes through a sieve, and just before 
serving the soup we added one teaspoon ful of sugar 
and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of baking soda to the 
tomatoes, and tiien the hot milk, and after stirring it 
was serv^ed at once. It must not be heated after the 
milk has been added to the tomatoes or it will 
separate. 

Oxtail Soup. — In preparing oxtail soup we first 
peeled one onion, one carrot, and one turnip. After 
washing .and wiping two oxtails we cut them into 
pieces, one inch long; We put two ounces of butter in 
a saut§ing-pan, and when hot we put in the oxtails 
and turned them until brown ; then removed tliem to 
a soup kettle and added the onion, carrot and turnip, 
and f<jur wiioie cloves, one bay leaf and two quarts of 
cold water or stock, and left it to simmer until the 
oxtails were tender — about two hours. We then re- 
moved the vegetables, added salt and pepper to the 
SOU]), and it was ready to be served, though wiien 
wine is used one glass of sherry would have been 
added. 

Oxtails also make a good brown stew. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — In preparing mock turtle soup 
we used one calf's head of which the butcher had un- 



2-iO TIIR WA r WE DID A T VOOKINO SCHOOL. 

jointed the jaws and taken out the brains. We waslied 
it thoroughly in cold water, then poured boiling water 
through the throat and nasal passages,, after which we 
washed it again in cold water. We put the head in 
tlie soup kettle with the calf's heart and liver, wliicli 
had been well washed, covered it with three quarts of 
cold water and put it over a moderate fire. We skim- 
med it as soon as it boiled, and again in fifteen minutes. 
We left it to simmer until the meat was tender — 
about two hours. We lifted out the head and reraov^ed 
the meat and tongue ; then put them to cool and re- 
turned the bones to the soup kettle, adding one carrot, 
one onion and one turnip, which had been peeled and 
sliced, and also added one bay leaf, twelve whole 
cloves and a bunch of pot-herbs, and left them to 
simmer two hours longer. We then strained it and 
put it away to cool. The heart and liver were added 
to the rest of the meat in the refrigerator. In the 
morning we removed all the fat from the surface of 
the soup and cut the meat from the head and half the 
liver into cubes. We put two ounces of butter in a 
large stewpan and stirred it until a nice brown ; we 
then added four tablespoon fuls of flour, and when 
mixed well we added the soup; after stirring and 
boiling it five minutes we added the meat we had cut' 
into cubes, and when it boiled again we removed it 
from the fire. We then added one tablespoon ful of 
Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of mushroom 
catsup, salt and pepper to taste, and if wine is used, a 
glass of sherry. We sliced two hard-boiled eggs and 
one lemon, casting away the seeds, put the eggs and 
lemon in the tureen and over them poured the boiling 
soup ; then it was ready to be served. 

Egg Ball. — In making egg balls we boiled three 
eggs for fifteen minutes, then removed the yolks and 
mashed them fine, and added one-half teaspoonful of 
suit and a dtisii of cayenne and worked them togetlier 
with the uncooked, unbeaten white of one small eo-o'^ 
or the half of a large (^.gg. We formed the mixture 
into small balls and dropped them into boiling water. 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 231 

When they rise they are cooked sufficiently, and are 
then drained and put in the soup tureen. Tliey are 
serve(i with mock turtle soup and with clear soups. 

Soup 1 la. Eeine. — In preparing soup a la Reine we 
cleaned a fowl weighing five pounds and put it in the 
soup kettle with three quarts of cold water and one- 
half cupful of rice, covered it and left it to simmer 
gently for two hours. We pared one Carrot and one 
onion and cut them into squares. We put three ounces 
of butter in a frying pan, and when hot added 'the 
onion and carrot and stirred them until a nice brown. 
We then skimmed them out and put them in the soup 
kettle, and added one h&y leaf, three cloves, one blade 
of mace and a piece of cinnamon one inch long, and 
covered it and left it to simmer another hour. At the 
end of that time we added two tablespoonfuls of flour 
to the butter left in the frying pan, and when mixed 
we stirred it into the-soup and skimmed it as soon 
afterward as it boiled. We next took out the chicken, 
chopped the white meat very fine and put it back into 
the soup kettle. We took out the carrot and spices 
and pressed the rest through a sieve ; then washed the 
kettle and put the soup back in it, and added one pint 
of good cream and salt and pepper to taste ; when it 
boiled again it was ready to be served. When wine 
is used a gill is added at serving time. 

Peppee Pot. — In preparing pepper pot we washed 
well, in cold water, one pound of ])lain tripe and one 
pound of honeycomb tripe, and iuiving put it in tlie 
soup kettle, covered it with cold water and boiled it 
eight hours. The next day we wiped a knuckle of 
veal with a damp towel, covered with three quarts of 
cold water, put it over the fire and brought it slowly 
to the simmering point, and having removed the scum 
as it came to the surface, we left it to simmer three 
hours. We then strained the soup and returned it to 
the kettle, and waslied one bunch of pot-herbs, chop- 
ped the parsley, rubbed the leaves off the thyme, cut 
up one half of the red pepper, cut two medium-sized 
white potatoes, that had been pared, into cubes, and 



2:32 THE VfAY WIS DID AT COOKING S(MOUl. 

added all tliese ingredients, Avith one bay leaf, to tlie 
soup. We cut tiie tripe into one-inch squares, and all 
tlie meat from the knuckle into small pieces, then 
added the meat to the soup, which we brought forward 
over the fire, and when it boiled we seas(jned it to 
taste with salt and ca3'enne ; after rubbing together 
two ounces of butter with two tablespoonfuls of Houi', 
we added them to the soup, with fifty small dumplings 
made according to the following proportions : 

We chopped fine one-fourth pound of suet, and 
having measured it carefully, took twice the quantity 
of flour, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt and mixed 
them well together, using ice water to moisten — about 
a fourth of a cupful. We made the dumplings about 
the size of a common marble, and added them to the 
soup. They, with the soup, were ready to be served 
after they had simmered about fifteen minutes. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

Virginia Reed. 



THE WAT WE DID JT COOKING SCHOOL. 223 



LETTER XXV. 

April 10, 189-. 

My Deae Cousin Alethea : We have had a most 
delightful change in our work. A special teacher has 
given us lessons in " Table Serving." We prepared a 
luncheon one day and part of us played we were the 
guests, while the rest of the class were the servants 
who served the luncheon. Another day we prepared 
a dinner which the others served. I will write out all 
I can remember of her directions. 

Tlie four things essential in the perfect serving of 
meals are promptness, quiet, order and self-control. 

The table should be covered with cotton-flannel, or 
else with flannel, before the tablecloth is put on. 
Table linen should never be starched, but while wet it 
should be ironed until perfectly dry. Never shake a 
tablecloth, but use a crumb tray and scraper or nap- 
kin. 

Tiie center piece should be laid, and the table mirror 
and flov/ers, or fruit in a dainty receptacle, placed in 
the center of the centerpiece. 

The host and hostess are to be seated at the ends of 
the table, so if carving cloths are to be used they 
should be placed accordingly, and then the dishes 
containing olives, salted almonds and bonbons, should 
be placed so as to give the table a symriietrical appear- 
ance. 

The chairs should next be placed at the table, so as 
not to be knocked about the room, and also to keep 
the tablecloth from becoming mussed. 

The knives, forks and soup spoon are next placed on 
the tal)!e, and the napkin is placed at the right with 
the hem next the edge of the table, and to the right 



'Z2i THE WAV WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

with the embroidered lettering on the top ; but if the 
napkin is marked with indelible ink, the marking is 
folded inside. This is the way each cover is arranged. 



AND 

BUTTER 
PL Alt 



AppoLl/VABIS pj f-\ 






WaTeo g 

'-' Pepdeh 
, , Salt ^^ 

Wine 



EDGE Of TABLt 

The knives are one-fourth of an inch apart. A 
Vienna loaf of bread is cut into slices one inch and a 
half thick and one piece is placed upon each napkin. 
Salt and pepper shakers are placed between each two 
persons. 

The ice should be cracked and kept in the refrig- 
erator until tlie last minute, being put into the glasses 
for Appolinaris just before the guests come to the 
table. 

The sideboard must also be carefully arranged. 
There must be a finger bowl iwo-lhirds full of water 
for each person. Each finger bowl should stand on a 
doily on a dessert plate. There should also be a 
holder or plate of cheese, a plate of wafers, and a tray 
holding the oil and vinegar cruets and spoon and fork 
for the making of salad dressing. The third fork, in- 
stead of being placed on the table, is placed on the 
sideboard, one on the pile of plates to be used for the 
salad and the rest of the required number by the pile. 

Never use any tray for serving but brass or Jap- 
anese, unless it is covered with a napkin or a tray 
cloth. 

Tiiere should also be a plate of butter balls- on the 
sideboard and tlie crumb tray and scraper. If jelly is 
to be served with the meat it should stand on the side- 
board till needed. 



THE WAY WIS DID AT OOOKING SCHOOL. 5i25 

The glasses are tilled with water the very last thing 
and a bouillon cup is placed on a doily on each plate; 
when everything is ready the servant enters the parlor, 
and when the hostess looks at her the servant says 
" Luncheon is served." 

When the guests are seated the waitress removes 
tlie lids from the bouillon cups and the guests take it 
while hot with a spoon, but when cooler they take it 
directly from the cup. Butter balls are passed after 
the soup is served, so that it can be eaten on tiie bread 
with the soup. The plate, doily and bouillon cup are 
removed, all at one time, from the left side with the 
left hand, while a fresh plato is put by the right hand 
in the vacated place. 

The host carves and serves the meat and the vege- 
table is passed by the waitress. Women carve when 
servants are not plenty and when no men are present. 
Poultry siiould be cut up in the kitchen while the fish 
is being served. 

The hostess serves or dishes out the sou[), fish, salad 
and dessert. 

When removing the plates immediately before 
serving the salad, the plate of the hostess sliould be 
taken first instead of last. This is done in oi-der that 
she may be making the dressing while the other plates 
are being changed ; therefore a dish is ])laced before 
her, the tray of cruets at her left and the salad in 
front of her. The other plates should then be removed, 
always putting down a fresh plate as the soiled one is 
removed. The salad can be passed by the waitress 
and each one serves herself, or the hostess may prefer 
to help the plates. Crackers or wafers and cheese are 
serveci with the salad before the guests commence to 
eat it. The cheese and salad are eaten with a fork, 
though it is not wrong to assist cutting with a knife. 

JNever serve a mayonnaise dressing on "a salad after 
meat has been served in a fancy shape. 

After the salad remove everything except glasses 
and carafe, bonbons, almonds and olives; then use the 
crumb tray and scraper or napkin. 



^:i(i THE WAT WE DID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 

Serve the dessert. If the dessert is served on a 
plate put on a spoon or fork before passing. Ice cream 
may be served witii a fork and spoon. 

The English naay use a fork alone for their dessert, 
but never a spoon witliout a fork to assist. 

Renaove tlie dessert plates and serve the finijer 
bowls. The finger bowls can be pushed to the left, or 
lifted from the plate and put to the left, and rein;iiti 
on the table. Bonbons are served next and then the 
coffee. Coffee is lifted from the tray by the guest 
after she has added to it the cream and sugar desiretl. 
If no tongs are on the tray, pick up the sugar with the 
fingers. 

If forks or extra spoons are needed they should be 
placed on the table at tiie right of the person. 

Americans leave the napkin in a bunch on the right- 
hand side of the place. The English leave the napkin 
on the chair. 

For a dinner or formal luncheon lady fingers or 
bread sticks are tied in bundles of three by a ribbon 
and placed on the napkin. 

In laying the table where croquettes are to be 
served three forks are j)laced for each cover. 



WATER 




CLflBET 

MD STICKS 
(VApkiN 



EDCE Of TABLE 

AURANGED FOR A DINNER. 



The soup plates are also placed for each person be- 
fore the waitress announces that "Dinner is served." 

Wlien the guests are seated the soup tureen is 
brought in and placed before tlie hostess, who serves 



TUE WAY ir.'V .' /;; at uookixg school. %-ii 

the soup. As each soup plate is removed it, is replaced 
by a fish dish or plate. The soup tureen is removed 
after the soup plates have been taken awa}'. 

Butter is never served at dinner. 

As fish plates are removed the meat plates are 
l)laced. The meat ina.y be carved by the iiost or on 
the sideboard by the servant. Tl)e vegetables iire 
placed on the sideboard and are passed by the waitress 
and each person helps herself. The starchy vegetable 
is passed first and then the green vegetable. 

The carving cloth and meat plate are removed from 
before the hostess and. the salad placed before her, and 
also the plate in which to make the tiressing; the tray 
holding the cruets of oil and vinegar, with salt and 
peppgr, is placed at her left. While the hostess is 
making the dressing, the other meat plates are removed 
and salad plates are put in their places. After the 
dressing is made and put on the salad, the iiork, spoon 
and dish, and also the trav and its contents, are re- 
moved. The salad is passed and each one helps her- 
self ; then the wafers and cheese are passed. Next 
are removed the salad plates, salt and pepper shakers, 
wine glasses, but no other glasses, antl the table is 
brushed. 

The dessert and one dessert plate is placed before 
the hostess. Put down a fresh dessert plate before 
the hostess and place the dessert that has been served 
before the guest of honor. Take another fresh dessert 
plate from the sideboard and place it before thj 
hostess, and place the dessert that has been served be- 
fore another guest, and so continue to do until all 
have been served. Or the dessert may be already 
upon dessert plates on the sideboard and be served 
from the sideboard. 

Extra forks or spoons are always placed by the 
waitress at the right side of the guest. 

Kemove all the dessert plates, serve the finger 
bowls, then the bonbons, and then the coffee. The 
finger bowls can be used as soon as brought on and 
after the cofiFee. 



328 THE WAT WE VID AT COOKIXG SCHOOL. 

Salted almonds are passed at all times ; so also are 
olives, gherkins and celery. 

The waitress must see that each guest is supplied 
with bread and water. A guest must never be com- 
])elled to ask for either. Water and wineglasses are 
tilled whenever the waitress has nothing else to do. 
When a guest wishes no more wine he places his linger 
(icross the glass. Of course tiie water glasses were 
filled before the guests w'ere invited out, and so also 
was the ice put in the Appolinaris glasses. 

This new teacher was a graceful lady, of most 
charming manners, and we enjoyed her instructions 
so much that all of us were sorry when the lessons 
were ended. The first day she came siie brought a 
dish-mop — a buncii of wiiite cord fastened to one end 
of a wooden handle. She said she did not know 
whether we used such an article or not, but'' in her 
own house the servants always used such a mop in 
washing the dishes. She would not think of allowing 
line china to be piled one piece upon another as in the 
patented dishwashers. Such dishwashers might be 
labor-saving machines in large hotels, but certainly 
would be hard on the enamel and decoration of china. 

The colored girl wiio washes the dishes for our 
school uses a dish-mop similar to the one she brought. 

I have thought upon the subject and regretted that 
soon the cord forming tiio mop part would become 
stained and a person would want a new one, so I have 
devised a way of quickly renewing the mop part, 
which I should prefer having made of linen fringe in- 
stead of cotton. Now, Cousin Alethea, when I have 
taken out a patent on " my adjustable dish-mop," and 
have some manufactured, I shall be delighted to send 
you one for trial. 

How does salt act in preserving meat? Salt draws 
out the natural wafer from meat, and by deprivino- 
the microbes o fit keeps them from growing; it also 
draws out organic and mineral constituents. 

What effect does it have upon the fibrin? Salt 
toughens fibrin and makes it harder to digest. 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 3^9 

What happens to vegetables soaked in salt water? 
Salt toughens their cellulose and makes them harder 
to digest. 

What flesh contains phosphorus? All flesh con- 
tains some, but fish, oysters and sweetbreads contain- 
the most. 

What kind of soup is most strengthening? Thick. 

Why are cakes less digestible than bread ? Cakes 
are less digestible than bread on account of the butter 
they contain, especially that in the crust of the cake 
which has been changed to butyric acid. 

What is vinegar, and from what is it produced? 
Yinegar is dilute acetic acid, made by the aid of mi- 
crobes from malt, cider, white wine and various 
fruits. 

What is starvation ? Starvation is the non-assimila- 
tion of food material. 

Wh\Ms ice water injurious? Because it lowers the 
temperature of the stomach below the normal degree. 

What are supposed to be brain nutriments? Foods 
rich in nitrogen and phosphates. 

Why should breakfast be eaten soon after rising? 
The system has used the food that has been taken in 
and other must be taken to replace the force expended 
in work. The craving for food is nature's call for 
sucli material, and unless answered the system will be 
compelled to use the stored-up material. 

Why are 'late suppers injurious? Late suppers are 
injurious because the stomach, as well as the rest of 
tlie system, requires a certain amount of rest, and 
food taken late, especially indigestible food, shortens 
that time. 

What are liquid foods? Solid foods? Semi-solid 
foods? Liquid food is such food as does not require 
to be masticated, and can be digested in one' organ, 
except milif, which requires two organs. Solid foocl 
requires mastication and may be digested in one or 
more organs. Semi-solid food does not require mas- 
tication and yet requires two organs for its digestion. 

Of what use are acids as aliments? Acids aid in 
keeping tiic blood in a liquid condition, 



230 THE WAY WK DID AT COOIilNG SCHOOL. 

Why do you use an acid in mayonnaise? An acid 
is used to neutralize the oil and to give flavor to the 
dressing. 

What is the "mother" in vinegar? Mother of 
vinegar is a thick, slimy substance which accumulates 
in vinegar, and is really a collection of microbes, 
though it is on the borderland between microbes an(l 
fungi. 

What is cacao butter? Cacao butter is the firm fat 
obtained from the bean of the Cacao Theobromine. It 
does not become rancid. 

Why does cream come to the surface of milk? The 
fat globules are lighter than milk, therefore their 
tendency when not agitated is to rise to the top. 

What is the greatest quantity of oil that can be 
worked into the yolk of one egg? One quart. 

How can mayonnaise be " brought back ?" By 
beginning again with the 3'olk of one egg and adding 
oil drop by drop, and then when well started gradually 
adding what had separated. 

How do albumin- and oil difl'er in composition ? 
Albumin belongs to the nitrogenous division of food, 
and contains nitrogen, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and 
sulphur, while oil contains carbon, oxygen and 
hydrogen, and belongs to the Carbonaceous division. 

How do you wash meat and jelly bags? Dissolve 
soap or borax in hot water and wash the bags in it ; 
rinse in water the same temperature and dry quickly. 
Never put soap on the bags or boil them. 

What is the general principle of cleansing? The 
supplying of one substance with another which is 
its affinity. 

What is the diflferenee in texture between woolen, 
cotton and linen fabrics? The filaments of cotton 
and linen are straight and smooth, while those of 
woolen are toothed and jagged, which causes the sur- 
face of woolen goods to appear matted. Linen is 
harder twisted than cotton, and does not stain so 
quickly. 

How do you remove oil stains from wood ? With 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING HOIIOOL. ^31 

an acid or an alkali, scrubbing with the grain of the 
wood. Do not use hot water on the wood. 

What is cookery ? Cookerj is tlie science of making 
food palatable and easy of assimilation, while at the 
same time giving it an attractive appearance. 

Canning Apples. — In selecting apples for canning 
we took only those that were perfect and fresh ; as we 
pared them we dropped them into cold water, so they 
would not discolor while w-e prepared the rest of the 
four pounds. When we had pared enough for a jar 
or two we put them in a granite kettle, covered them 
with boiling water and lett them to simmer until so 
tender that they were easily pierced by a straw. We 
put one pound of sugar in a granite kettle with one 
quart of water and stiixed until the sugar was dis- 
solved ; then added the grated yellow rind of one 
lemon, and after it had boiled three minutes we liftfed 
the apples carefully with a strainer and put tiiera in 
the syrup. When the syrup boiled up again we put 
the apples into wide-raouthed glass jars that had been 
heated and were standing on a folded damp towel. 
When the jar was filled to overflowing we screwed on 
the top, which had also been heated. Before putting 
the top on we passed a silver spoon around in the jar 
so as to break up any air bul)bles that might have 
formed. We left the jars in a warm place, wliere the 
cold air could not strike tliem, and in tiie morning 
tightened all tlie tops we could. In a week or two we 
saw no air bubbles at the top, so we were sure they 
.would keep all right. 

This is the general plan for canning all fruit. Small 
fruits, however, are best sugared an hour or two be- 
fore canning. The quantity of sugar to be used 
depends on the variety of the fruit, though, of course, 
it could be canned very well without any sugar. 

Apple Jelly. — In selecting apples for jelly, if a red 
jelly is wanted, use Ladyblusli apples ; or if an almost 
white jelly is desired, use fall pippins. We wiped the 
apples, and without coring or paring them, we cut 



332 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKINa SCHOOL 

them in pieces, and after putting tiiem in a granite 
kettle covered them with cold water, and having put 
a cover on the kettle left them to boil. When the 
apples were very tender we drained them through a 
flannel jelly bag. We were careful not to squeeze 
tlie bag, as that would take away the clear look fi-om 
the jelly. We put the juice in a clean granite kettle 
and brought it quickly to a boil ; to every pint of 
juice we added one pound of granulated sugar, and 
then stirred until the sugar was dissolved. We then 
allowed it to boil rapidly, removing the scum that came 
to the surface, and at the end of fifteen minutes we 
began to test it. It usually takes about twenty minutes 
for fruit juice to jell. In testing it we put a tea- 
spoonful in a small dish, and after cooling a moment, 
if the top when pushed back with a spoon seemed 
partly solid, it was pronounced done, and we at once 
rolled the tumblers in boiling water and then filled 
them with the boiling liquid. After standing until 
morning the jelly was firm and cold, so we put the 
lids on the glasses that had lids, covered the tops of 
the others with two thicknesses of tissue paper,"the 
edges of which we pasted to the glasses, and then 
brushed the top of the paper with a sponge dampened 
with cold water. The paper when dried formed a 
smooth, tight covering. We put the jelly in a cool, 
dark place to remain until wanted for use. 



Your afifectionate cousin 



ViEomiA jReed. 



TIIK WA Y we did at cooking SCHOOL. 333 



LETTER XXVI. 

April 17, 189-. 
My Deae Cousin Alethsa: One morning the prin- 
cipal of the school came in and gave us the following 
outline as a guide to help us in making out a menu : 
1st. — Oysters. 
2d. — Koup. 

3d. — Olives, celerv, gherkins, or cut cabbage. 
4th.— Fish. 

5th. — Croquettes, patties, or small made dishes. 
6th. — Main meat dish. 
7th.— Punch. 
8th. — Game. 
9th.— Salad. 
10th.— Sweets. 
11th.— Fruit. 
12th.— Coffee. 

She also dictated to each of us the amount of various 
ingredients to be used in preparing a certain dish we 
had never made. Eacli of us was to combine the in- 
gredients as we thought they ought to be. The idea 
was to find if we had paid good attention to what we 
had seen and heard. 

I will now write out the recipes for those dishes and 
others which we have made or had given us that were 
not on our cards. 

CoffeeCake.-— Put one pound of flour — winter wheat 
being preferred to the spring variety — in a bowl and 
make a well in the canter. Into tliis well put five 
ounces of butter, four well-beaten unseparated eggs, 
four tablespoonfuls of milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt anil a biscuit of leaven. 



234 TUE WAY WE. DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

The leaven is made by breakino^ up a cake of compres- 
sed yeast in two tablespoonfuls of warm -water, and 
when the yeast has dissolved, work into it two or three 
tablespoonfuls of flour to make a soft biscuit. Into a 
deep two-quart utensil filled nearly full of warm water 
drop the biscuit, which has been patted and marked 
with a cross. The biscuit of leaven should grow light 
and rise to the top of the water in five minutes. 
During those five minutes work together the ingredi- 
ents in the bowl, with the hand, and add the leaven 
when it has come to the top of the water. When the 
mixing is over fold the dough carefully and take it out 
on the board as soon as possible; next put itin agreased 
pan and stand it aside in a warm place. At the end 
of three hours tui'n it out on the board and roll tlie 
dough into long strips, which should be twisted and 
wound, one length at a time, upon a buttered pan, 
forming a spiral curve. Put in a warm place for 
one hour and brush with beaten egg and dust with 
granulated sugar before baking thirty minutes in a 
quick oven. 

German Cake. — Scald one-half pint of milk and add 
two ounces of butter cut into small pieces. Into a 
bowl put one-half pound of flour; make a well in the 
center and into it put the milk and "butter when the 
mixture has cooled, and also add four well-beaten 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and a biscuit of leaven made as for the coflfee 
cake. Stir all together with a wooden paddle and 
add one and one-half cupfuls of flour; then tip the 
bowl on one side and beat thoroughly. The dough 
must be very soft and mixed in la3fers as nearly as 
possible. Stand it in a warm place. As soon as the 
dough has been allowed to grow light for three hours, 
.spread it out over a buttered pan in a thin sheet. 
Next take one-half capful of granulated sugar and 
one-half cupful of butter beaten together, and havino- 
made slight indentations over the cake with the finger^ 
fill the places witli the butter and sugar and sprinkle 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon Over the top, and also 



THE WAY WM DID AT aoOKtNG 80B00L. 235 

sprinkle over it one-half cupful of chopped citron and 
one-half cupful of mixed nuts, chopped ^almonds and 
English walnuts being preferred.- Put it in a warm 
place for half an hour and bake it in a quick oven. 
This cake should remain in the pan until perfectly 
cold. It is served cut in squares. 

Eggs a la Newbdeg. — Hard boil six eggs and cut 
tiiem in half crosswise. Take out the yolks, mash 
them fine, and season with salt and pepper, one table- 
spoonful of melted butter and one tablespoonful of 
parsley chopped fine. Cut the tip off from the end of 
the whites so they will stand level.- Make a ball of 
the yolk mixture and put in each white and arrange 
them in a dish. Make a sauce of one ounce of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-half pint of milk, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and add the beaten yolks of two eggs and also 
one tablespoonful of sherry. Pour it over the eggs 
and serve. 

Egg Cutlets. — From one ounce of butter, two table 
spoonfuls of flour and one-half pint of milk make a 
thick sauce ; season it with one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of onion juice and one-half teaspoonful 
of pepper, and add the whites of six hard-boiled eggs 
that have been pressed through the vegetable press. 
Spread the mixture out to cool. Cut the yolks into 
halves and put one-half in the center of each cutlet, 
covering the yolk with the cold-creara mixture, Pat 
it into the desired shape, and dip each cutlet in beaten 
egg, then in crumbs, and fry in heated oil till a golden 
brown. 

CocoANUT Milk. — Pour one \)'mt of boiling water 
over a freshly grated cocoanut and let it stand until 
cool. Squeeze out tlic cocoanut, strain the milk through 
cheesecloth and use this milk for salads. Pour over 
the cocoanut another ])int of boiling water. When 
cool and strained save this milk for curry. Pour on 
the cocoanut the third pint of boiling water, and when 
cooled and drained use this milk for cooking. The 
cocoanut is then thrown away. The cream coming to 



236 THE WAT WS DID AT COOKtNO SGllOOL. 

the top of the first milk is made into the butter which 
is so good for the skin. 

East India Cuery of Chicken.— Prepare a chicken 
as for a fricassee. Peel and slice one dozen onions 
which are about one inch in diameter. Slowly brown 
the onions, a light or golden brown, in two ounces of 
butter. Then brown the chicken in the same butter 
and simmer both onions and chicken in the third pint 
of cocoanut milk. If one pint is not enough add a 
part of the second draining. The first draining would 
make it too ricii. Add one teaspoonful of green gin- 
ger, one teaspoonful of curry powder and one tea- 
spoonf ulof turmeric powder. Simmer until the chicken 
is tender. Add one teaspoonful of lemon juice and 
one teaspoonful of salt, and serve. 

In the East they never use the skin or giblets. 

Chicken Timbale. — Kun one-half pound of the un- 
cooked white meat of a chicken through the meat 
chopper, and if desired extra nice press it also through 
a sieve. Take one cupful of crumbs from bread at 
least one day old, dry enough to be rubbed in the 
hands ; add one gill of milk, and cook tlie two together' 
until it boils. Remove from the fire and add one tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper, and stir in 
the whit^ meat of the cliicken which has been made 
tine. While the mixture is warm, but not hot, stir in 
the well-beaten whites of five small or four large eggs. 
Cut pieces of paper to exactly fit the bottom of the 
timbale cups and brush them with butter. In filling 
the cups, a fancy shaped piece of truffle may be placed 
first, and then the cup filled with the chicken mixture ; 
or the cups may be lined with the mixture, leaving a 
space in the center, which can be filled with mush- 
rooms or sweetbreads in cream sailce and then covered 
with the mixture. Stand the cups or moulds in a pan 
containing hot water. Cover with a thick sheet of 
paper and place in the oven for twenty minutes. 

The sauce served with tliese is made from one ounce 
of butter, one tablespoonful of Hour and one-half pint 
of milk; to which, when it boils, is added one-half can 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 23'J' 

of mushrooms, one-half teaspoon ful of salt and one- 
fourth teaspoonful of white pepper. 

Swedish Timbale. — Make a batter of one cupful of 
flour, one-half cupful of cold water, one half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one tablespoonful of olive oil and the yolks 
of two eggs. Beat well and let it stand one-half liour, 
and then add the beaten whites of the two small eggs. 
Dip the heated mould into the hot oil, then drain it 
well ; dip it twice into the batter, and fry it in the 
heated oil until a very light brown. Kemove from 
the moulding iron and stand upside' down to drain. 
These cases are called Bouchees. Fill the cases with 
creamed chicken, fish, sweetbreads, or lobsters and 
cream sauce. 

This is also a good batter for fruit fritters. 

EiGE A l'Impeeateice. — Boil one cupful of rice until 
it will mash between the thumb and finger. Drain 
and pour over it cold water to separate the grains. 
Dry carefully by tossing. Whip one pint of cream. 
Dissolve one-half box of gelatin in three tablespoonfuls 
of milk. Add one-half cupful of powdered sugar and 
one teaspoonful of vanilla sugar. Sprinkle the rice 
gently over the cream and then add the gelatin mix- 
ture. Beat all together and continue to stir or beat 
until it retains the outline of the beater. Turn it into 
a cold mould and stand in a cold place to stiffen. 
When wanted remove from the mould and serve with 
fruit placed around the base. Or a lemon jelly can be 
made and its center filled with the rice. 

Tomato Aspic Moulded. — Moisten one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of gelatin with three tablespoonfuls of 
cold v.'ater. Boil one pint of tomato juice to which 
has been added one small onion sliced, one bay leaf, 
four whole cloves, one teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth 
teaspoon ful of pepper and a small b'ade of mace. Re- 
move from the fire, add the gelatin to the tomato juice 
and stir till dissolved; then pout: it through a small 
sieve into small cold, moulds. When stiffened turn 
each one on a lettuce leaf, sprinkle chopped parsley or 
cress over their tops, and serve with one-lialf pint of 
mayonnaise mixed w-ithone-htilf pint of whipped cream. 



338 TEE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

The flavoring can be varied in whatever way pre- 
ferred. 

Hygiknic Fig Biscuits. — Make a dough of one pint 
of flour, one ounce of butter, one egg, one tablespoon- 
fu-1 of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
milk enough to malce a dough — nearly two cupfuls — 
with whole wheat flour. Roll" thin and spread with 
pulp of figs. Bring over the dough, making it like 
long narrow turnovers about two inches wide. Bake 
and then cut them into pieces about three and one-half 
inches long. After being baked put a light weight on 
them to make them flat. 

Beioche. — To one pint, or one-half pound of flour 
add four unbeaten eggs and five ounces of butter ; beat 
well with the hand and. also beat in one biscuit of 
leaven, made from one cake of compressed yeast as in 
coffee cake. "When thoroughly blended stand aside in 
a warm place for three hours. Work it down and let 
it stand another hour. Bake in a well-oiled cake pan 
in a moderate oven from thirty to forty-five minutes. 
It makes it very nice to work it down a second time, 
and then let it stand in the refrigerator one hour before 
baking. 

Jelly Roll. — Beat the yolks of four eggs and grad- 
ually add one cupful of sugar ; then add the well-beaten 
whites of the four eggs. Add one cupful of flour, beat 
and add two tablespoon fuls of boiling water. Stir in 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, and then spread 
thin in an oblong baking pan which has been lined 
with greased paper, and bake from ten to fifteen 
minutes. Spread with jelly and roll before it is 
cold. 

Mrs. Beeton's English Muffins. — To one quart of 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one and one-half 
ouncfs of German yeast, add flour enough to make a 
soft dough, which put in a warm place. When light, 
make into balls, which place in muffin rings on a 
floured board until they have grown into the shape of 
a hemisphere. Invert thein upon a greased griddle, 
and when that side is bakeil turn it over and bake the 
other side, all upon the top of the stove, 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKINO SCHOOL. 239 

MuflBns should always be pulled apart, as cutting 
makes them seem heavy. 

Mes. Maeshall's Cocoanut Cake. — This cake mix- 
ture was put together the same as any other cake, and 
was made of one-fourtli pound of dried cocoanut 
browned, in the oven, one-half pound of butter, one- 
half pound of sugar, one teaspoonf ul of vanilla, the peel 
of one lemon chopped fine, three ounces of rice flour, 
five eggs, one teaspoonfnl of coffee essence, one-half 
teaspoonf ul of brown coloring, two teaspoon fuls of 
cocoa and four ounces of flour. This cake mixture was 
baked in gem pans, and is good served as a pudding 
with a sauce. 

Mes. Maeshall's Ham Salad. — Cover one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of gelatin with three tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water. Put over the fire one pint of boil- 
ing water, or ham stock freed from fat, and add for 
flavoring two whole cloves, one sprig of parsley, one 
bay leaf, one small onion, one teaspoonful of beef ex- 
tract and salt and pepper to taste. Whip one cupful 
of cream. Add the stock to the gelatin and then strain 
the stock and gelatin through a small sieve. Beat it, 
and when cool add the whipped cream and continue 
to beat until the mixture will retain the outline of the 
beater, then add one cupful of ham that has been 
cooked and chopped fine. When well blended turn 
into small moulds. To use turn each one on a lettuce 
leaf and serve ^yith mayonnaise dressing. 

Mes. Maeshall's Poff Balls. — Thicken one pint of 
milk with one-third of a box of gelatin and flavor it 
witii one-fourth teaspoonful of almond extract. Turn 
it into a granite baking pan to stiffen. When solid 
cut it into stars. Whip one pint of cream, add one- 
half cupful of sugar and stiffen- it with one-third of a 
box of gelatin. Put it in ball or small moulds. When 
firm, turn each mould on the center of a star and sur- 
round the base of the mould with finely chopped 
almonds. 

This Mrs. Marshall is the manager of a school of 
cookery on Mortimer Street, W. London, England, and 



240 TUE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

publishes a magazine called " The Table." The recipes 
are as we made them, and therefore not in her exact 
words. 

YIe seldom had an opportunity of examining a num- 
ber of Mrs. Marshall's magazine, or of examining " The 
American Kitchen Magazine," published in Boston, 
though we enjoyed both. 

Cinnamon Buns. — We beat two small eggs until 
light and added one cupful of milk' that had been 
scalded, one ounce of butter, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, and when lukewarm we added one cake of yeast 
that had been dissolved in two tablespoon fuls of luke- 
warm water and flour enough to make a thin batter. 
"We beat it thoroughly for at least live minutes and 
then kept it in a warm place until light. When light 
we stirred in more flour, so as to make a soft dough, 
and put it on the breadboard and kneaded it lightly 
for ten minutes. We returned it to the bowl and kept 
it in a warm place until very light. We then rolled 
the dough out in one large thin sheet and spread it 
lightly with butter which had been softened by heat 
but not melted. We then covered it thickly with 
sugar and sprinkled it with powdered cinnamon and 
dried currants. We rolled the dough tightly in one 
long roll and cut it into two-inch lengths, which we 
stood on end closely together in a well-oiled pan. We 
stood the pan where thev would keep warm until very 
light, and then baked them in a moderately quick 
oven for about thirty minutes. They must be removed 
from the pan while warm, because the bottom of the 
whole panful should be covered with the candied sugar 
or caramel. 

Quick Cinnamon Buns. — In making the Quick Cin- 
namon buns we made the dough of one pint of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, one egg well beaten, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, one-half cupful of milk 
and one-half ounce of butter. We rolled the dough 
into a thin sheet and rpread it with butter, cinnamon, 
sugar and currants, and then rolled and cut it the 
same as in making the other buns, Having cut and 



THE WAY WIS nil) iT COOKING SCHOOL. 241 

put them in an oiled pan we baked tbem about half 
an hour. 

Jumbles, No. 1. — We beat six ounces of butter to a 
cream and gradually added six ounces of powdered 
sugar ; when beaten light we atided two well-beaten 
eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla, two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry and six ounces of flour. When beaten thor- 
oughly we put it in a pastry bag and pressed it out in 
small round cakes upon a well-oiled pan. and baked 
them in a moderate oven from five to eight minutes, 
until the edges were a dolicate brown. 

. Potato Biscuit, No. 2. — We pared and boiled one 
large potato ; put one-half cupful of flour in a bowl and 
scalded it with one cupful of the water in which tiie 
potato was boiled. After beating thoroughly we 
added the potato, which had been mashed and had 
one tablespoonful of salt added, and beat it again well. 
When lukewarm we stirred in one cake of yeast dis- 
solved in one-half cupful of lukewarm water, and after 
covering we kept it in a warm place until light — about 
four liours. When light we added two ounces of 
butter to one pint of milk which had been scalded, and 
when it was lukewarm we added flour enougii to make 
a dougli tiiat could be kneaded, and also added to it 
the light mixture containing the yeast and kneaded it 
as we would bread for about fifteen minutes. We 
kept it in a warm place for two hours. When light 
we formed it into small biscuits and put them in an 
oiled pan, not touching each other, and let them stand 
anotlser hour. We baked them in a quick oven for 
twenty minutes. 

Compote of Apples. — We made a syrup of one-half 
cupful of sugar and one pint, of water, cooked tiie 
quartered apples in it, and then placed the apples 
around on the edge of slices of phxin bread toast, witli 
shredded pineapple in tlie center and chopped candied 
cherries on top. It was served with a sauce made of 
one level tablespoonful of arrowroot, one-fourth cupful 
of sugar ami one pint of water, flavored to taste either 
with lemon juice or vanilla, and colored with Dr, 
Price's rose coloring extract, 



242 THE WAY WE DID Ai' COOEINQ SCHOOL. 

This being a sweet entree it was served warm, not 
hot, before tlie game, though it is nicer for a lunch 
than for a dinner. 

Gateau St. Honoee. — In preparing this dessert, as 
we had no puff paste prepared, we baked a thin layer 
of Grafton cake for the base, and also baked some 
choax paste (which is the same as cream puff batter), 
which had been dropped from the pastry bag in small 
balls, about as large in diameter as a five-cent piece. 
We glaced tiie carpels of two oranges. When the 
cake was cold we fastened the balls of choux paste 
close to the edge — tliat is, touching the edge of the 
caUe by first dipping the bottom of the pyramids or 
balls in me'ited gelatin and then pressing them firmly 
upon the cake. We placed the straight edge of the 
glaced orange carpels upon the balls, a candied cherry 
upon the highest part of each carpel, and upon the end 
of two carpels wliere they touched each other. The 
center was then filled with a charlotte, and a few 
candied cherries scattered over the top. 

This dessert presented a very attractive appearance. 

Any kind of a Bavarian cream could have been used 
instead of the charlotte. 

Vienna Rolls. — In making Vienna rolls we scalded 
one pint of sweet milk and poured it over two ounces 
of butter and one level teaspoon ful of salt. We dis- 
solved one ounce, or three cakes, of Fleischraan's 
compressed yeast in one-third of a cupful of lukewarm 
water. Wh6n the milk had become lukewarm we added 
the yeast and flour sufEcient to make a batter stiff 
enough to drop, not pour, and then beat it well until 
smooth. We kept it in a warm place until light — 
about one hour. Wiien light we added flour enough 
to knead, and when well kneaded we divided the 
dough into small portions and put them to rise be- 
tween folds of cloth. When light we formed it into 
rolls for baking. When light, and just before putting 
in to bake, we brushed the top with equal parts of 
butter and white of egg. We allowed them to bake 
J!i a quick oven from twenty to thirty minutes. We, 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 243 

handled them very lightly and did not use any flour 
in forming the dough into rolls. 

Miss K's Gingisr Pudding. — One-half cupful of 
molasses, one cupful of whole wheat flour, one-half 
cupful of suet, shredded and chopped fine, one-half 
tablespoonful each of ginger and cinnamon mixed to- 
gether, one egg, one-fourlh of a teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water and put in the molasses. When 
all are thoroughly blended together put in an oiled 
mould and boil five hours. 

Beeakfast Gems. — In making these gems we sepa- 
rated two eggs and to the beaten yolks added one cup- 
ful of milk, one tablespoonful of" melted butter and 
one-half teaspoonful of salt. We stirred in one cupful 
of Bond's whole wheat flour, the well-beaten whites of 
the two eggs and one rounding teaspoonful of baking 
powder, and after mixing thoroughly we put the mix- 
ture in gem ])ans and baked them about twenty-five 
minutes in a quick oven. ^ 

Geiddle Cakes. — In making griddle cakes with 
wiiole wheat flour we beat twoeggs without separating 
them ; added one pint of milk and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt ; then stirred in one and one-half cupfuls of 
the flour and added one and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. After beating well we baked them on 
a hot griddle. 

Sweet Milk Biscuits. — In making biscuits with 
whole wheat flour we added two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and one level teaspoonful of salt to one 
quart of the flour, and then sifted it. We rubbed in 
one ounce of butter for shortening and added enough 
sweet milk to make a soft dough. We rolled the 
dough into a sheet about one inch thick and cut out 
the biscuits with a small round cutter. We placed 
them in a pan so they did not touch each other, 
brushed the tops of them with milk, and allowed them 
to bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Quick oe Peptik Beead. — In making this bread we 
added one teaspoonful of salt and two and one-half 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder \q one guart of tb§ 



244 THE WAY WE BID AT GUOKINQ SCHOOL. 

whole wheat flour; after sifting twice we made a well 
in the center and poured in it one pint of water and 
one tablespoonful of New Orleans molasses. We then 
gradually stirred in the flour. The dough must be 
soft, even if a little more water has to be added. 
After stirring thoroughly we turned it into a well-oiled 
square pan, and after smoothing over the top we 
brushed it with melted butter and allowed it to bake 
one hour and ton minutes in a moderately quick oven. 
The bread browned at least fifteen minutes ; it is con- 
sidered mucli more wholesome than yeast bread. 

If you should wish to try Bond's Gluten-Germ 
Wliole Wheat Flour, have your grocer order it from 
Bond's Mills, Fort Wayne, Indiana. They will send 
you a book containing a number of recipes if you will 
send tiiem'your address. 

Suet Pudding.— In making this pudding we first 
shredded enough suet to make one cupful; after chop- 
ping it fine we stirred into it one-half cupful of sugar 
and four well-beaten eggs. We tiien atlded one tea,- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one-half of a grated nutmeg, 
one cupful of currants and enough of Bond's Gluten- 
Germ Whole Wheat Flour, with which one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder iiad been sifted, to make a very 
stiff batter. We turned the batter into a well-grea,sed 
mould, placed the mould in a vessel containing water 
to the depth of about two inches, and boiled it con- 
tinuously for two hours. This pudding is served hot 
with a sauce. 

All tlie books of which I gave you the titles in my 
first letter have various topics of interest in them be- 
sides the ones we have studied. Another book which 
has proved to be very interesting is Dr. Hassall's 
" Adulterations of Food." 

I have already written you about detecting some 
adulterations, though I. have not yet copied for you 
the ways to detect the adulteration of milk and 
mustard flour. 

Pr. Lefftnana said in one article : " To detect an* 



THE WAT WR DID AT OOOKTNQ SCHOOL. 2ib 

natto color in milk, mix a little baking soda in milk 
and immerse a piece of unsized paper in it ; let it 
stand for a few hours. The immersed i)art becomes 
oranf^e. To detect methyl, orange, or coal-tar colors 
in milk, clean undyed wool should be used, the sample 
being previously mixed with a little ammonia." 

Milk tliat has been diluted with water will run and 
drop oil' quickly from a knitting needle which has 
been thrust into it, while the drops will be larger and 
fall more slowly when the mdk is pure. 

Starch and turmeric being the two things with 
which mustard flour is usually adulterated, the purity 
of the flour may be ascertained by testing with iodine, 
which turns starch blue, and by ammonia, which turns 
turmeric brown. 

Alas! we are seven no longer. One of the girls 
has left the class, and we are bemoaning the loss of 
her company, though we understand that in a short 
time she will practice what she has learned in a home 
of iier own. It seems to be the fashion here for the 
wealthy young ladies, upon becoming engaged to be 
married, to take a course in cookery. It certainly 
is a sensible way of getting readv to direct a house- 
hold. 

Explicit obedience in following directions, and the 
most exact measurement of materials, are some of the 
lessons we are learning here for Use in after years. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

ViKGiNiA Eeed. 



246 THE WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 



LETTEE XXVII. 

April 23, 189-. 

My Dear Cousin Alethea : One tnorning the prin- 
cipal of the school came in and asked us what we 
could do with various ingredients if we found, some 
morning, that the refrigerator contained a certain 
amount left over, so each of us made out the bills of 
fare for one day and used the various ingredients as 
well as we could. 

She said the skill to make palatable and attractive 
dishes from " left overs" was one of the marks of ex- 
cellence of the good cook. Since then, whenever I 
have thought of or they have spoken of a dish that 
could be made from " left overs," I have made a note 
of it, and as my list may be of service to you I will 
copy it. 

Stale Bread can be used in croutons or sippets and 
in puddings and scalloped dishes; or for stuffing 
peppers and otlier vegetables, and meats; or when 
dried and ground tine ttiey can be used for covering 
croquettes. 

( Stale Cake can be heated in a steamer and served 
with a custard, stewed fruit or whipped cream ; or it 
can be made into Cabinet or General Satisfaction 
pudding, croquettes or cake souffle. 

Potatoes.— Sweet or white — if whole can be cut 
into blocks and served as creamed potatoes, or potatoes 
au Gratin, or Lyonnaise potatoes, or the white ones 
while hot can be made into potato salad. If mashed 
they can be made into croquettes, or used to line 
timbale moulds, or used in a casserole filled with 
hash, or a fricassee of chicken, or else used in cro- 
(juettes, or boi^lettes, or in potato puff, 



THE WAT WIS DID AT COOKING /SCHOOL. 347 

Hominy grits can be made into croquettes. 

Rice can be used in croquettes or gems. 

Farina can be used in gems. 

Boiled Spinach can be pressed in small moulds and 
served as a salad. 

Boiled Caeeots can be sliced and pickled, or chop- 
l)ed and served witb mayonnaise in a salad. 

Boiled Beets can be put in vinegar and used when 
wanted in a salad. 

Tomatoes can be used in soup, or scalloped, or made 
into tomato aspic. 

Carrots, turnips, celery, onions and potatoes can be 
chopped and made into vegetable liash. 

All cold vegetables make excellent salads with a 
French dressing, except tomatoes and celery; which 
require mayonnaise dressing. 

Celeet in small or green pieces can be made into 
cream of celery soup. 

The shell of pineapple cheese can have macaroni 
baked and served in it, while scraps of cheese can 
be made into cheese souffle for dinner, or into cheese 
lingers. 

The water in which asparagus was boiled can be 
saved and used in cream oif asparagus soup. 

All uncooked vegetables should be soaked in cold 
unsalted water to freshen them. 

Stock made without vegetables vfWi keep longer in 
warm weather than it will if vegetables are used. 

Stock for soup can be made from the various bones 
as follows: 

Duck bones can be used for farina soup, puree of 
carrots, spinach and bisque of turnip. 

Chicken bones can be used for apple or almond 
soup, cream of rice soup, or cream of grits soup, while 
the tips of the wings, neck and back are added for rice 
soup or chicken gumbo. 

TuEKEY bones can be used for puree of rice and 
celery, or with milk in salsify soup. 

Goose bones can be used for red cabbage soup or 
sweet potato soup. 



248 THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING 8GE00L. 

Lamb bones can be used for onion soup or cream of 
lima beans. 

Veal bones can be used for corn soup. 

Beep bones can be used for tiie Scotch soup whicii 
has oatmeal in it, or for vermicelli soup, or Julienne 
soup. 

Mutton bones can be used for sago soup, rice soup, 
or with barley for Scotch broth, while the water in 
which mutton was boiled can be used for rice, cream 
of turnip or onion soup. 

Meats "Lefi' Over." — Pieces of duck can be sorved 
in terrapin style, or a la Bordelaise, or in a salmi. 

Pieces of tongue can be potted or made into cro- 
quettes. 

Pieces of chicken can be cut up and served with 
cream sauce on toast, or in timbales, or made into a 
soufH6, or cecils, or croquettes, or deviled, or in boudins 
a la Eeine, or a pilaff, or used in a salad. 

The rougher pieces from chicken or fricassee of 
guinea can be used in a giblet stew. 

Pieces of turkey can be used in a curry or salad. 

Pieces of mutton can be used in a curry, cecils, 
shepherd's pie, pilatf, klopps, or in a Chinese ragout. 

Pieces af lamb can be used in boudins. 

Pieces of uncooked beef can be made into Hamburg 
steaks, brown stew with dumplings, or in a cannelon. 
If cooked it can be used in a ragout, boudins, cecils, 
croquettes, bobotee, meat rissoles, or in a salad. 

Pieces of veal can be scalloped or made into a 
ragout. 

Pieces of fish can be served as Cusk a la Cr^me, or 
cut into small blocks and served with cream sauce in 
timbales, or made into croquettes, or in salad. 

Pieces of ham can be barbecued, or chopped and 
used in ham balls, or omelets, or salad. 

Fruit syrups and juices can be used to flavor des- 
serts or pudding sauces. 

Jelly in small portions can be used in Queen of all 
Puddings, or in an omelet, or \yater-ice, or sherbet. 

Preserves can be used in Newport pudding. 



Tim wa y Wis did a t cooking school. 349 

I will now write out a few more of the recipes for 
the dishes we have prepared according to our cards. 

Lakded Fillet with Mushroom Sauce. — In prepar- 
ing a larded fillet we first removed all the muscular 
covering by stripping it back and then cutting it off, 
with a very sharp knife, from the fillet, which is in 
reality the tenderloin. We cut larding pork into fine 
strips for lardoons and tossed them into ice water to 
harden until wanted. We took one lardoon and in- 
serted one end of it in a larding needle anti took a 
stitch about one inch deep across the center of the 
fillet, and holding lightly to the exposed end of the 
lardoon drew the needle through the fillet, in that 
way leaving about one-fourth of an inci) of the lardoon 
exposed on each side. We made a row of lardoons 
about one inch apart along the middle of the fillet. 
We put four cloves, two bay leaves, one stalk of celery 
cut in pieces, one small onion peeled and sliced, and 
one small carrot pared and sliced on the bottom of a 
baking pan, and placed the larded fillet on top of 
them. 'We dredged the fillet with pepper and spread 
butter thickly over it, and having atided one teaspoon- 
ful of salt to one-fourth cupful of boiling water, poured 
it in the bottom of the pan and put the pan in a quick 
oven. We basted it four or five times while it was 
baking thirty minutes, which is the time a fillet in- 
variably require for proper baking. We removed the 
fillet to a heated platter and added one ounce of butter 
to the pan and two tablespoon fuls of flour. Wiien 
well mixed we added one pint of stock or boiling 
water and stirred' constantly until it boiled ; then 
strained it into a saucepaij and added one pint of 
freshly stewed or canned mushrooms. When they 
liad cooked five minutes we added one teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, one tablespoonful of sherry, salt 
and pepper to taste, and poured it in a bowl to be 
served with the fillet. 

Fish, Larded and Baked.— In preparing a fish for 
larding and baking v>e first scraped off all the scales, 
then made an opening down the belly, removed the 



S50 THE M'AT WE Din AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

insicles, washed it well inside and out, and at once 
wiped it drv witli a clean, dry cloth, and then rubbed 
it well with salt. We stulTed the fish with a dressing 
made of one cupful of stale broad crumbs, one table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
a little black pepper and one tablespoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley, all well mixed together ; then we 
sewed the fish up with soft yarn. We scored one 
side of the fish with a sharp knife, making the scores 
parallel about one inch apart, and in each score we 
placed a strip of salt pork. We greased a tin sheet 
and put it in the bottom of a baking pan, and having 
dredged the fish thickly with salt, pepper and flour, 
placed the fish on the tin, and covering the bottom of 
the pan with boiling water put it in the oven. We 
basted it every ten minutes with the gravy in the pan 
and baked it fifteen minutes to the pound. If all the 
water should evaporate from the pan, add more. 
When done we removed the tin sheet and slid the fish ■ 
carefully from it to the platter on which it was to be 
served. We garnished it with slices of lemon, fried 
potato balls and parsley, and served sauce Plolland- 
aise with it, though roe sauce would have been as 
nice. 

Sauce Hollandaise. — In preparing sauce HoUand- 
aise we rubbed two ounces of butter with one table- 
spoonful of flour until smooth, put it in a double boiler 
and added gradually one-half pint of boiling water, 
stirring constantly until it thickened. We removed it 
at once from the fire, added one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, and gradually stirred in the beaten yolks of two 
eggs, then the juice of one-half lemon, one teaspoonful 
of onion juice and one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. This sauce is also served with boiled fish 
and fish croquettes. It must be made of good butter 
and used at once. 

Stewed Beef's IIeaet. — In preparing a heart for 
stewing we soaked it three hours in cold water, re- 
moved the muscles and blood from the inside, and 
then stuffed it with a forcemeat made of one cupful of 



TEB WAY We did AT COOKING SG'HOOL. Jj-51 

bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
one-half teaspoonful of marjorjun, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt and two 
dashes of black pepper mixed together. We wrapped 
the heart securely with a cloth and sewed the ends 
together so the stuffing could not escape. We placed 
the heart point downward in a stewpan, nearly 
covered it with boiling water and left' it to simmer 
until tender, about three hours. When done there 
should still be about one pint of water in the stewpan. 
We removed the cloth and dished the heart. We 
put one ounce of butter in a frying pan, and when 
brown added two tablespoon fuls of flour, mixing them 
well; then added the pint of water in which the heart 
was boiled, stirring continuously until it boiled ; then 
added salt and pepper to taste. We removed it from 
the fire, added four tablespoonfuls of sherry and 
poured the sauce over the heart, which must be served 
while it is very hot. Currant jelly ought also- to be 
served with beef's heart. 

Stewed Kidney. — In preparing kidneys for stewing 
we split thein in two equal parts and with a sharp- 
pointed knife cut out all the sinews and fat ; then cut 
the kidneys into small pieces, which vv,e put in a stew- 
pan and covered with cold water ; then placed it over 
a moderate fire until it came to the steaming point ; 
then drained off that water and put on fresh cold 
water and heated it again.' We did this three times, 
being careful not to allow the water to boil, as that 
would cause the kidney to become hard and tough. 
We put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and when 
it was a nice brown \m.q added one tablespoonful of 
flour and then one cupful of stock or boiling water, 
stirring continhously until it boiled. \¥e then added 
one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one table- 
spoonful of mushroom catsup, salt and pepper to taste, 
and the kidney. We stirred until the kidney was 
heated, and then removed it from the fire, added four 
tablespoonfuls of sherry, and served it at once. 

Bbaised Calf's Livee. — In braising a calf's liver we 



252 THE WA y WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

first washed it well and then larded it, with lardoons 
made from one-fourth pound of larding pork, in the 
same way as we did the fillet of beef. We pared and 
cut into slices one carrot, one onion and one turnip, 
put them on the bottom of a braising-pan, and added 
one stalk of celery cut in pieces, two sprigs of parsley 
and one bay leaf. We put the liver on the bed of 
vegetables and added one pint of stock or water, and 
having put the cover on the pan we put it in a moder- 
ate oven for two hours. We placed the liver on a 
heated dish. We stirred one ounce of butter in a 
saucepan till a nice brown, and then added one table- 
spoonful of flour ; when well mixed we strained in the 
liquid from the braising-pan — about one-half pint. We 
stirred constantly until it boiled, and then added 
one tablespoonfui of Worcestershire sauce and one 
tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, poured the sauce 
around the liver, and it was ready to be served. 

Beef a la Mode. — We prepared beef a la mode from 
a four-inoh slice of the round weighing about seven 
pounds. We took out the bone and then sewed a new 
strip of muslin around the beef to keep it in good 
shape. We cut deep gashes in the meat about one 
inch apart, being careful not to- cut all the way 
through. We mixed one teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of black pepper, one-half teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoonful of ground 
mace and one-fourth teaspoonful of ground cloves, and 
rubbed the mixture into the meat on both sides and 
put a little in each gash. We cut fat salt pork into 
pieces the size of tlie gashes and put one in each gash. 
We chopped one Rmall onion very fine, added it to one 
cupful of stale bread crumbs and one tablespoonful of 
finely chopped parsley, and moistened all with vinegar. 
Wo pressed a little of this forcemeat into each gash 
with the salt pork. We then mixed three tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar with three tablespoon fuls of olive oil 
and moistened well both sides of the meat. We next 
put two large tablespoon fuls of butter in a braisino-- 
pan, and when melted and hot we added one onion, 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 353 

one carrot and one turnip, which had been pared and 
cut in slices. We stirred until they were lightly 
browned, and added two tablespoon fuls of vinegar, 
two bay leaves, one sprig of parsley, two quarts of 
boiling stock or water, and let it boil two minutes ; we 
then put in the round of beef and one knuckle of veal 
well cracked. We put the cover on the braising-pan 
and baked it for six hours in an oven at about 220° 
Fahr. When done we removed the meat and put it to 
cool. We strained the liquor from the braising-pan 
into an oblong granite pan, and having added salt and 
pepper to taste, left it to harden. The meat was 
served cold, with squares of the jelly, which should be 
amber-colored, around it, and garnished with parsley 
and small radishes cut to represent tulips. If put in 
a cold, dry refrigerator, this meat will keep two weeks. 
Chicken Cutlets. — In preparing chicken cutlets we 
removed the skin from the breast of a young chicken 
that had been singed and drawn. We cut off the 
wings at the middle joint ; that is, the second from 
the body, then run the knife along the breast bone, 
taking off one-half the breasu with the first joint of 
the wing as a handle. We removed the other side for 
a cutlet in the same way. The dark meat when 
cooked is used for other dishes. We put the dark 
meat in a stewpan, nearly covered it with boiling 
water, and added one small onion peeled and sliced, 
one bay leaf, four whole cloves and one sprig of 
parsley. We placed the cutlets in good shape on the 
top, and having covered the pan, left them to simmer 
until tender, which is told by piercing them with a 
fork. When done we removed the cutlets, dusted 
them with salt and pepper, and basted them with one 
tablespoonful of melted butter. When ready to use 
them we dipped them first in beaten egg and then in 
bread crumbs and fried them in steaming oil until a 
golden brown. We trimmed the bones with a frill of 
paper, placed them near the edge of the meat dish, 
poured cream sauce in the center of the dish, and they 
were ready to be served. 



334 THE WAY WE DID AT COO KING SCHOOL. ' 

Lobster Chops. — In preparing lobster chops we 
julJed one tablespoonful of chopped parsle}^ one- 
fourtl- of a grated nutmeg and salt and cayenne to 
tajte to two cupfuls of boiled lobster. We put one 
c.ipful of cream or milk on to heat, and rubbed one 
ounoe of butter with three tablespoon fuls of flour and 
added them to the steaming cream, stirring constantly, 
and then added the beaten yolks of two eggs. When 
it had cooked about two minutes it liad thickened suf- 
ficiently, so we removed it from the fire and stirred in 
the seasoned lobster, and when well mixed we turned 
it out on a platter to cool. When cold we formed it 
into chops and dipped them in beaten e^g and then in 
bread crumbs. We put them in the frying basket and 
immersed them in heated oil, and in about two 
minutes they were a nice brown. After draining 
them we arranged them on a heated dish, using a 
small claw to represent the bone, and garnished them 
with parsley. They can be served with either cream 
or tartare sauce. 

Sauce Tartaee. — in preparing sauce tartare we 
chopped three olives, one gherkin and one tablespoon- 
ful of capers very fine, and added them to one cupful 
of mayonnaise dressing. We could also have added 
one-half teaspoonful of powdered coriander seed or 
one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. 

French CRU^.LEEs. — In making French crullers we 
cut up two ounces of butter and put it with one cupful 
of cold water in a stewpan over the fire ; as soon as it 
boiled we added four ounces of flour quickly and stir- 
red until the flour all left the pan and adhered to the 
wooden spoon in a bail. We removed it from the fire, 
and after giving it a thorough beating, stood it in a 
warm place for thirty minutes. We then added one 
unbeaten egg, beat the mixture smooth, and then 
added another unbeaten egg and beat again until 
smooth, and so continued to do until we had added 
four small eggs, or three large ones. We beat the 
mixture for five minutes and then covered and kept it 
in a warm place for another thirty minutes. We 



THE WAT WE DTD AT GOOKING SCHOOL. 255 

mixed one cupful of powdered sugar with one tea- 
spoonful of powdered cinnamon. We floured the 
baking board, put one tablespoonful of the cruller 
mixture on it and rolled the mixture until it was one- 

■fourtii of au inch thick ; we cut it with a round cutter 
and then removed the center with a smaller cutter. 
We lifted carefully with the cake turner and slid it 
into steaming hot oil. When one side had fried uni,il 

■ brown we turned it and let the other brown. After 
draining we rolled it in the cinnamon and sugar. 
This mixture seemed exceedingly soft, but before we 
had made it all into crullers we got so that we could 
manage it without adding much flour. The less flour 
added the nicer — more delicate — they are. 

Gekman Ckullers. — In making German crullers we 
beat two eggs until light and continued to beat while 
we added one cupful of sugar; then added one cupful 
of thick sour cream, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and 
one teaspoonful of vanilla ; when well mixed we added 
gradually three cupfuls of sifted flour which- had been 
sifted with one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. 
When well mixed we rolled it out on the board, cut it 
with a large round cutter and removed the centers 
with a smaller cutter. We dropped them into the steam- 
ing hot oil and fried them brown, first on one side and 
then on tiie otiier. When done and drained we dusted 
them with powdered sugar. This dough also was ex- 
ceedingly soft, but we soon learned to manage it with 
the spatula, and so did not touch the cut dough with 
our hands. 

Doughnuts. — In making doughnuts we scalded one 
pint of milk and added to it two ounces of butter; 
when it had cooled we added one-half cupful of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-half cake of compressed 
yeast dissolved in lukewarm water, and flour enough 
to make a soft dough. We beat it thoroughly and 
kept it in the covered bread-raiser until light ; we then 
stirred in three well-beaten eggs and added flour 
enough to make a soft dough, which after kneading 
lightly we covered and kept in a warm place until 



25ti THE WA T WE BID A T COOKINQ SCHOOL, 

light. We then took out part of the dough, which we 
rolled and cut into doughnuts with holes in the center. 
We spread a clean cloth on the table, and having placed 
the doughnuts on it, covered thera up and let them be 
for thirty minutes, in which time we rolled out the 
remainder of the dough. We were careful to put the 
doughnuts upside down into the steaming hot oil, be- 
cause a crust formed over the surface while standing 
which if left uppermost would prevent the doughnuts 
from puffing up properl}'. When browned on both 
sides and drained we dusted them with powdered sugar. 

When oil is kept expressly for frying mixtures of 
dough, mutton suet can be added, as many think it 
makes a nicer crust. We used the " butter oil" alone 
and everything fried was very nice. 

Mince Pie. — In making mince pie we lined a deep 
pie dish with puff paste, made as 1 told you in my 
sixth letter, and filled it with the mince-meat I told 
about in my seventeenth letter. The mince-meat was 
thinned a little with cider or wine. We covered the 
pie with an upper crust of the paste and brushed the 
center of the top of the pie lightly with the beaten 
yolk of eg(r. We lifted the edges of the paste from 
the disii with a knife, being careful not to press the 
paste along the outer edge of the riin of the dish, as 
that would prevent it from puffing up properly. In- 
deed, we never touch puff paste when it can be 
avoided. The pie was baked one-half hour in a quick 
oven. 

Lemon Citstaed. — In making a lemon custard we 
lined a deep pie plate with puff paste and placed it in 
the refrigerator while we made the custard. We beat 
the yolks of three eggs with one cupful of sugar and 
added'the juice and grated yellow rind of one lemon. 
We put one tablespoonful of flour in a bowl and added 
gradually one cupful of milk, stirring all the time, and 
when well mixed we poured it through a small sieve 
into the eggs and sugar. We stirred and then poured 
this mixture into the paste lined plate, and baked it 
lialf an hour in a quick oven. We beat the whites of 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 257 

three eggs until stiff, tlien gradually beat in three 
tablespoonfuis of powdered sugar and continued to 
beat until it was stiff and glossy. When the pie was 
done we placed this meringue by spoonfuls over the pie 
and returned it to the oven to brown. 

. Baked Chicken Pie. — In baking a chicken pie we 
used one chicken, weighing about four pounds, that 
had been drawn, singed and cut into eleven pieces as 
for a fricassee. We put the chicken in a stewpan, 
covered it with boiling water and left it to simmer 
until the meat was tender when pierced by a fork. 
We cut one-half pound of ham into small squares, 
pared four medium-sized potatoes, cut them into cubes, 
parboiled them fifteen minutes and drained them, and 
chopped one tablespoonful .of parsley. We lined a 
two-quart tin pan or basin with puff paste and cut the 
pieces that came from trimming the edge into squares. 
We put potato blocks over the bottom of the pan and 
then a layer of chicken, a sprinkling of ham, tlie 
squares of paste, a sprinkling of chopped parsley, salt 
and pepper and bits of butter. We repeated these 
layers until all the ingredients were used. We used for 
the filling one ounce of butter. We rolled out a crust 
for the top, cut a, hole in the center, moistened the 
edge of the pie with cold water, put on the top crust, 
pressed the edges together and baked it in a quick 
oten until tiie crust was done— about one-half hour. 
While the pie was baking we made a sauce from one 
ounce of batter, with which we rubbed two level 
tablespoonfuis of flour without letting it brown. We 
added one cupful of the liquor in which the chicken 
was cooked and one cupful of milk, stirring contin- 
uously until it boiled ; then added salt and pepper to 
taste, removed it from the fire and added the beaten 
yolk of one egg and one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. When the pie was done we poured this 
sauce into the pie through a funnel placed in the hole 
in the top crust. The pie was served in the dish in 
which it was baked. 

Eabbitj veal and squirrel pies are made ia the samj 



258 TEE WA T WE DID A T COOEINQ SCHOOL. 

way, using two rabbits or four squirrels in the place of 
one chicken. 

Philadelphia Stewed Teeeapin. — In stewing terra- 
pin the Philadelphia way we put two terrapins, alive, 
into a large kettle of boiling water and^ boiled them 
until we could pull off the outer skin and toe nails — 
about fifteen minutes. Having removed the skin and 
toe nails we put the terrapins into fresh boiling water, 
added one heaping teaspoon ful of salt and left them 
to boil slowly until the shells parted easily and the 
flesh on tlie legs was tender. When done we took 
them from the water, removed the under shell and let 
tliem stand until cold enough to handle. When cold 
we took them from the upper shells and carefully re- 
moved the sand bags, bladders, the thick, heavy part 
of the intestines, and also the gall bag, which was 
found imbedded in one lobe of the liver, and threw 
them away. We were exceedingly careful about re- 
moving tlie gall bags, because if they should get 
broken the gall would spoil tlie whole terrapin. We 
broke the terrapins into small pieces and out the small 
intestines, or pipes, as they are called, into short 
pieces, and also broke up the liver and added it, with 
the eggs found in the terrapins, to the meat! We put 
all into the stewpan and added the juice or liquor they 
had given out while being cut. We rolled eight 
ounces of butter in flour and added it to the terrapin, 
which we placed over a very moderate fire until 
heated through. We removed the yolks from six eggs 
which we had boiled fifteen minutes, and made a 
smooth paste with the yolks and two tablespoonfuls of 
wine, and added to the terrapin, together with one 
cupful of thick cream, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
powdered mace, and salt and pepper to taste. We re- 
moved it from the fire and added one gill of sherry or 
Madeira. More wine can be added if desired, biit it 
mast not boil after the wine is added. 

Sweetbreads ALA Bechamel. — In preparing sweet- 
breads la Beclmrael we put them in cold water as 
soon as they cainQ from market. After soaking one 



TUK WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 259 

hour we removed all the fat, put them in boiling water 
in a porcelain kettle, added one teaspoon ful of salt, 
and let them parboil over a moderate fire for fifteen 
minutes. We then put tliem in cold water for five 
minutes, after which we removed all the fibrous skin 
and fat and picked them into small pieces. We put 
one ounce of butter in a saucepan, and when molted 
but not brojvned we added one tablespoonful of flour, 
mixed it smooth and added ond gill of white stock and 
one gill of cream, stirring constantly until it boiled. 
We then added one-half can of mushrooms chopped 
fine and the sweetbreads. We removed it from the 
fire and added the beaten yolks of two eggs, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, two dashes of white pepper and 
one tablespoonful of sherry. It was served in a small 
heated dish, though it could have been served in in- 
dividual cases. A calf's brains could have been par- 
boiled, mashed and added to the sauce, as many persons 
consider them a great improvement. 

Baked Sweetbeeads and Peas. — In preparing the 
sweetbreads we put five lardoons in each of them after 
soaking them one hour in cold watery then par- 
boiled them fifteen minutes. We placed them in a 
small baking pan, dredged them with salt, pepper and 
flour, and covered the bottom of the i)an with stock 
or water, and baked them forty-five minutes in a 
moderate oven, basting them every ten minutes. 
When they were almost done we put one ounce of 
butter in a saucepan, and when it had melted but not 
browned we added one tablespoonful of flour; when 
we had mixed it smooth we added one cupful of milk 
•and stirred constantly until it boiled. We then added 
one can of French peas drained free from liquor, and 
stirred until they boiled. We placed the sweetbreads 
in the center of the dish and poured the peas around 
them. 

Boned Chicken. — In boning chickens we used two 
one year-old chickens. After singeing them we cut 
off the heads, and after rem&ving the tendons at the 
third joint from the body- we cut off the feet. Wq 



2C0 THE WAY WIS DID AT CVOKING SCHOOL. 

placed a chicken witli its breast on the table, and 
taking a firm hold of the skin under the neck we cut 
the skin down the whole length of the neck and back 
to the rump, and then carefully slipped the knife be- 
tween the bones and flesh toward one of the wings.^ 
We unjointed the thin bone and joint heaiest the 
body, and- running the knife between the flesh and 
bone, tooJc out each bone as we came to the joint. 
The small bones at the tip of the wings cannot be 
taken out, so they are left, tiiough sometimes they are 
cutoff. We then kept the knife close to the bones 
until we came to tiie joint of the leg next the body. 
This joint required the leg to be turned and twisted 
considerably before we found just where the tendons 
were that held it. The bones of the leg were removed 
in the same way as the wing, only much easier, be- 
cause there is more flesh on them and so less likelihood 
of cutting the skin. The second joint can be turned 
wrong side out and the bone stripped down. We re- 
moved the flesh from the bones till we came to the 
breast bone. We then boned the other side of the 
chicken and, after pulling out the crop, we removed 
the flesh from the breast bone with the finger till we 
came to the edge of the bone ; then having started to 
se]>arate the gristle from the bone with a knife we 
took the neck in one hand, iind the skin and flesh in 
the other, and gently pulled them apart. After re- 
moving the carcass we cut off the rump, leaving it 
attached to the flesh and skin. We wiped the skin 
with a dampened towel, to be sure it was clean ; then 
spread the chicken out flesh side up and dredged it 
with salt and pepper. We chopped the meat of the 
other chicken fine and mixed with it one-half pound 
of sausage meat, one lablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
one cupful of stale bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of onion juice and one- fourth 
teaspoonful of pepper. We put a small portion of 
this forcemeat in the cavity made in the wings and 
legs by the removal of the bones. The remainder of 
the forcemeat we made into the shape of the carcass 



THE WA 7 WE DID AT COOKING SGHOOL. 261 

and placed it in the boned chicken ; then drew the 
skin together and sewed it with an over and then an 
under stitch. We tucked the wings back and drew 
the legs down to the side of the body, and pressed it 
with our hands into the shape of a chicken before 
being boned. We wrapped the chicken in a piece of 
cheesecloth and then wrapped it securel\'^ with twine 
and tied it so the forcemeat conld not get out. We 
put the bones of both chickens, and the skin of the 
one, into a kettle and added cold water enough to 
little more than cover them. We added a knuckle of 
veal, one bay leaf, one onion, four whole cloves, one 
sprig of parsley, twelve peppercorns, one small-sized 
carrot that had been pared and sliced. We put the 
kettle over a moderate fire, skimmed as soon as it 
boiled, and then added salt. We placed the boned 
chicken on top of the bones and left it to simmer four 
hours. When done we removed the cloth, placed the 
chicken in a baking pan, and having dusted it with 
salt and pepper, browned it half an hour in a quick 
oven. It was garnished with parsle}'^ and served with 
sauce tartare. This is the best way for hot weather. 
White celery tops also make a pretty garnish. After 
the chicken had sijnmered four hours and been removed, 
we simmered the bones two hours longer, and then 
strained the liquor and put it to cool. There should 
be two quarts of liquor for the jelly ; if there was not 
so much, water would have been added to make the 
quantit}'. When a knuckle of veal has not been added 
a box of gelatin can be dissolved in one pint of cold 
water and used. After the fat was removed from the 
jelljr, the jelly should be melted, and if gelatin was to 
be used it should have been added and stirred until 
thoroughly dissolved, and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. The jelly should then be poured into a pan 
until it was one-half inch deep; when cold and firm it 
should be chopped and scattered over the chicken till 
it was one-half inch thick — the chicken having pre- 
viously been placed on a flat dish on which it was to 
be served. The remainder of the jelly should be cut 



2e-Z 27/ff WAr WE BID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

into one-inch blocks, or some fancy shape, and used to 
ornament the edge of the dish or platter. Or, the 
jell}' might have been placed in a mould and when 
set, the chicken, which was cold, could have been 
"placed on it, the rest of the jelly poured over and 
around it, and then placed where it would soon harden. 
When wanted, the mould could have been wiped 
quickly with a cloth wrung out of warm water, and 
the chicken in jelly turned out carefully, garnished 
with parsley, and served with sauce tartare. Chicken 
served in or with this jelly must be served as soon as 
arranged, as this jelly will not remain firm long in 
warm weather. 

If jelly had not been made from the liquor in which 
the chicken was boiled, it could have been used for 
soup. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

YiEGiNiA Eeed. 



THE WAT WtJ DID AT VO&KINO SCHOOL. 263 



LETTER XXVIII. 

April 30, 189-. 
My Dear Consm Alethea : I will now write out the 
remainder of the recipes we have had. 

Feuit Cake. — In making fruit cake we seeded two 
pounds of raisins, looked over two pounds of " Purity " 
currants and cut line three-fourths of a pound of can- 
died citron. We mixed the raisins, currants and citron 
together, floured them well, and then beat ten eggs 
together until very light. We beat one pound of 
butter to a cream, added one pound of sugar and beat 
again, continuing to beat wliile we added the ten eggs 
and then one pound of flour, one grated nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful of powdered allspice, one-half teaspoonful 
of powdered cloves, one-half teaspoonful of powdered 
mace and one teaspoonful of [)0wdered cinnamon ; we 
gave the whole a thorough beating and then added 
the floured fruit. We also added the juice and rind 
of one orange and one lemon, mixed all well together, 
and then poured the mixture into two round cake-pans 
which we had lined with paper and oiled well. They 
require to be baked four hours in a very moderate 
oven. When liquor is used one gill of brandy is added 
before the frnit. 

Plunicets. — In making' plunkets we selected four 
eggs, weighed out their weight in powdered sugar, 
their weight in butter and their weight in rice flour ; 
but when rice flour cannot be obtained one-fourth of 
their weight could be cornstarch and three-fourths 
pastry flour. We tlien beat the butter to a cream and 
continued to beat wiiile we gradnall}' added the pow- 
dered sugar, then tiie beaten yolks of the four eggs, 



364 THE WAT WE DID AT GOOEIN& SCHOOL. 

then the stiffly beaten whites, after which we added 
the flour a little at a time. We added one teaspoonful 
of vanilla, though we might have used the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon instead. After everything 
had been added we continued to beat until the mixture 
was very fine and light, then we poured it into small, 
well-oiled tins and baked them about twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. Fluted oval tins are the correctly 
shaped tins for plunkets. 

Oeeam Sponge Cake. — In makingcream sponge cake 
we made the filling first. "We put one cupful of milk 
on to heat. We beat the yolks of three eggs until 
light, together with two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
one and one-half tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, and 
poured over them the steaming milk and stirred' until 
it thickened. We removed it from the fire and added 
two tablespoonfuls of orange juice and the grated rind 
of one-half orange. We put the filling away to cool 
while we made the cake. 

We selected six eggs and weighed out their weight 
in sugar and one-half their weight in flour. We broke 
and separated the six eggs very carefully, beat the 
yolks until light, added the sugar and beat until very 
light, then added the stiffly beaten whites, and after 
mixing carefully we slowly sifted in the flour. We 
stirred one-fourth teaspoonful of baking soda into one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, and when it was dissolved 
we stirred it quickly into the cake ; after mixing thor- 
oughly we turned the mixture into a well-oiled shallow 
pan and baked it fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 
When the cake was done we turned it upside down 
and while warm spread it with the filling. We cut 
the cake into two equal portions and folded the bottoms 
together, thereby having a two layer cake with a thick 
layer of filling between. We then iced the cake with 
orange icing. 

Oeangb Icing. — Orange icing was made by putting 
one-half pound of powdered sugar in a bowl and adding 
the grated rind of ono orange, one tablespoonful of 
boiling water, and orange juice enough to moisten. The 
icing was very stiff and was spread on at once. 



THK WA T Wn DTD A T COOKING SCHOOL. 365 

Meeingues. — In malcing meringues we beat the 
whites of four eggs until very stiff and dry, and tlien 
added carefully one-fourth pound of powdered sugar 
whicii had been sifted and one teaspoonful of vanilla 
sugar. We mixed them thoroughly but ver}'' liglitly. 
We heaped the meringue by tiie tablespoonful upon 
greased paper and placed the paper upon a board one 
inch thick. We dusted them lightly with sugar, then 
fanned off what sugar we could and put them in a 
moderate oven until a lig!it-fawn color. We opened 
wide the oven door, but left the meringues in the 
oven one hour longer to dry. When done we removed 
them from the paper with a spatula, and then using a 
teaspoon we scooped out the bottom and center, whicli 
were still soft. They were inverted and returned to 
the oven to dr}' the interior, for when thoroughly dried 
and put in a box they will keep a long time. When 
wanted for use they can be liiled with whipped cream 
or ice cream and two pressed together. 

Chocolate Eclairs. — In making chocolate eclairs we 
made a batter the same as for cream puffs, which I 
wrote about in my twenty-third letter. We put the 
batter in a pastry bag and made the eclairs about five 
inches long by pressing firmly, all the time squeezing 
the bag while drawing it toward us. We left a space 
at least two inches wide between them. We used a 
well-oiled baking pan and baked them about twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. When done they felt light 
when lifted, for in fact thoy were hollow. When cold 
we filled them with the cream puff filling and then 
iced the bottom of them with chocolate icing. 

Chocolate Igin®. — We melted two ounces of choco- 
late, added four tablespoon fuls of powdered sugar and 
stirred until it formed a paste. We had the icing in a 
broad, shallow vessel, which we placed in another con- 
taining hot water while we dipped the bottom of each 
eclair flat down in the icing and then stood it away to 
dry. 

'Eclairs are also nice if filled with whipped cream or 
preserved fruits and iced v>-ilh orange icing. 



266 27/£? WAT WE BID AT COOKING SCIIOOL. 

English Plum Pudding. — In making English plum 
pudding we first seeded one pound of raisins, looked 
over one pound of "Purity" currants, chopped line 
one pound of suet, and minced one-half pound of can- 
died orange peel. We mixed well together the one 
pound of seeded raisins, the one pound of currants, 
one pound of chopped suet and one-half pound of can- 
died orange peel linely cut, with the one-fourth pound, 
of brown sugar, one pound of flour, three-fourths of 
one pound of stale bread crumbs, one-half of a grated 
nutmeg and the grated rind of one lemon. We then 
beat Ave eggs together until very light, added to the 
eggs one-half pint of brandy, poured it over the dry 
ingredients and mixed them together thoroughly. We 
packed the mixture to within one inch of the top of 
small tin pails which had been well-greased, and having 
put on their lids, boiled them six hours after making 
and another six iiours just before using. They could 
have been boiled longer at the making and so would 
only have required to be thoroughly reheated. When 
removed from the boiling water we took off the lids 
to let the steam escape. They can be served with 
hard sauce, flavored with brandy, or with Our Cooking 
School sauce. 

Our Cooking School Sauce. — In making this sauco 
we beat six ounces of butter to a cream, then beat in 
one-fourth of a pound of sugar and added the j'olks of 
three eggs. When we had beaten until it was very 
light and frothy we added one-half pint of wine, one 
gill of boiling water and grated nutmeg to taste. We 
placed the bowl containing all the ingredients in a pan 
of boiling water over the fire and stirred constantly 
for five minutes. It was served hot. 

Cream Chocolate Pudding. — In preparing a cream 
chocolate pudding we put two ounces of chocolate in 
a double boiler and stirred it until perfectly smooth. 
We put one pint of milk on in another double boiler 
and moistened four level tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch with about four tablespoonfuls of cold water 
und added it to the steaming milk, stirring it until 



TBM WA r WB DID AT COOtCWQ /SGMOOL. 26? 

thick and smooth. We added one-half cupful of sugar 
to" the milk, then the stiffly beaten whites of four eggs, 
and beat well together before removing the mixture 
from the fire. After removing from the fire we added 
one teaspoonful of vanilla. We took out one-third of 
the mixture and added it to the chocolate, mixing it 
well. We chilled a plain pudding mould by dipping it 
in cold water; we poured one half of the white mix-, 
ture into the mould, then all the chocolate mixture, 
and after that the remainder of the white mixture. 
Wo put it in a cold place or on the ice to harden. 
When served it had been turned from the mould and 
had had vanilla sauce poured around it. 

The vanilla sauce was made from the yolks of the 
four eggs, with one pint of milk, two tablespoonfulsof 
sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla, in the same way 
I wrote you in my twenty-second letter. 

Newport Pudding. — For the Newport pudding we 
pared and cored six medium-sized apples and steamed 
them until tender. While tliey were steaming we 
boiled the fourth of a cupful of water with one-half 
capful of sugar and the juice of one orange for five 
minutes. When the apples were tender we placed 
them in the bottom of a two-quart baidng-dish, poured 
the boiling syrup over them and let them stand to cool 
while we put one pint of milk on to heat. We beat 
the yolks of three eggs with one-half cupful of sugar, 
stirred them into the heated milk, and after removing 
it from the fire we added six macaroons, pounded fine, 
and one teaspoonful of vanilla. We filled the space 
left by the removal of the cores with preserves, then 
poured the custard over the apples and baked them 
fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. We beat the 
w^hites of three eggs with three tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar until very stiff, and tiien heaped them over 
the top of the pudding and returned it to the oven to 
brown. This pudding was served very cold in the dish 
in which it was baked. 

Vanilla Ice Ceeam. — In making vanilla ice cream 
we put one pint of cream in a double boiler over the 



268 I'HE WAY WM DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

fire, and added one-half pound of granulated sugar and 
one vanilla bean split into halves, and stirred continu- 
ously for ten minutes. We removed it from the fire 
and took out the bean, which we scraped with a blunt 
knife, and put the seeds and soft part from the inside 
of the bean into the heated cream ; after mixing thor- 
oughly we stood it away to cool. When cold we added 
another pint of cream, and having seen that the can 
and dasher were in tlie proper position, we poured the 
cream into the freezing-can, put on the cover, fastened 
the crank, and gave it a turn to be sure that it was all 
right. We used a "Crown" ice chipper in chipping 
the ice. We put a three-inch layer of fine ice around 
the can, then a one-inch layer of coarse oi" rock salt, 
and continued to alternate the ice and salt till we 
reached the top of the can. We turned the crank 
slowly and steadily. It took about twenty-five min- 
utes to freeze. When frozen we removed the crank, 
and after wiping the lid took it off carefully, so that 
no salt.could get into tlie can. We took out the dasher 
and scraped it off, and then with the wooden spatula 
scraped the cream from the side of the can, and beat 
and worked the cream steadily for ten minutes to make 
it smooth. We then put the lid back on the can and 
put a cork in the hole from which the dasher was 
taken. We drained the water from the tub and re- 
packed with salt and ice and covered the tub with a 
piece of carpet and stood it away in a cold place for 
one or two hours to ripen. When ready to be served 
the can was dipped quickly into cold water, and after 
being wiped off the cream was turned out on a dish. 

It takes about ten pounds of ice and two quarts of 
salt to properly freeze a four-quart freezer of cream. 

Baked Ice Cream— One of the class asked about 
baked ice cream ; so they told us that after ice cream 
had been made, moulded and left to ripen, we should 
see that the oven was very hot, and then make a 
meringue by beating the whites of eggs until very 
stiff. When tlie ice cream had been turned from the 
mould upon the dish on which it was to be served, it 



T3E WAY WE DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 269 

should be quickly covered witli a tliiclc meringue and 
the dish placed on a thick board and put into a very 
hot oven and left there until tlie meringue becomes a 
light brown. It is also sometimes called an Alaska 
bake. 

Iced Eice Pudding with a Compote of O ranges. — 
III preparing this pudding we rubbed one-half cupful 
of rice in a clean towel and put it on to boil in one 
pint of cold water ; after it had boiled thirty minutes 
we drained off that water,.poured one pint of milk over 
the rice and left it to boi! thirty minutes longer. We 
whipped one quart of cream, which we kept in a cold 
place till wanted, and added the small portion tliat 
would not whip to tlie rice and milk. When the rice 
was done we pressed it through a sieve and put it back 
in the double boiler. We beat the yolks of six eggs 
with one and one-half cupfuls of sugar until light, and 
poured over the boiling rice, and after stirring well 
we placed it over the tire until it began .to thicken — 
about two minutes. We removed it from the fire and 
added one tablespoonful of vanilla, or one-half as much 
vanilla sugar, and turned it out to cool. When cold 
we put it in the freezer and froze it the same as the 
vanilla ice cream. When frozen we stirred in the 
whipped cream, and after removing the dasher we 
smoothed it down and let it stand two hours, packed 
in the salt and ice, to ripen. 

For the Compote. — We put one pound of sugar on 
with one gill of water, and as it boiled we skimmed it. 
When it had boiled ten minutes we added the juice of 
one-fourth of a lemon to keep the sugar from granu- 
lating. We had peeled one dozen sweet oranges and 
cut them in halves crosswise, removing the cores with 
a sharp knife. We put a few pieces of the oranges at 
a time into the hot syrup, and then placed them singly 
on a flat dish, and when all had been po treated we 
poured over them the remainder of the syrup and 
stood them on the ice to cool. 

In dishing the pudding we removed the can from 
the ice, wiped it carefully with a dry cloth, then wiped 



'Z70 rim WAT WE inn at cooking school. 

the bottom of the- can with a towel dipped in boiling 
water, and having removed the lid and placed a round 
dish over the can, we inverted the can and left the 
frozen rice upon the dish. "We arranged the oranges 
around the base and over the top of the pudding, 
poured the syrup over them, and it was served at once. 

MoNTEosE Pudding. — In making Montrose pudding 
we heated one pint of cream in a double boiler. We 
beat together the yolks of six eggs and one cupful of 
granulated sugar until light, then stirred them into 
the steaming cream and stirred until it thickened — 
about one minute. We removed it from the fire and 
added another pint of good cream and one tablespoon- 
ful of vanilla, and when it had cooled we put it in tlie 
freezer and froze it. When frozen, instead of smooth- 
ing it down and letting it ripen in the can, we packed 
it in a round mould, leaving a well in the center, which 
we filled with strawberry water-ice, and then covered 
the water-ice with pudding taken from the center, 
being careful to entirely fill the mould. We then 
bound the edge of the mould with letter paper, put on 
the lid, covered the joint with a strip of muslin dipped 
in melted butter, and then packed it in salt and ice 
and left it to ripen until wanted, at least two hours. 

This pudding was served with Montrose sauce 
poured around it. 

Steawbeeey Watee-Ice. — The strawberry water-ice 
was made by adding one pound of sugar and the juice 
of two lemons to one quart of strawberries, and after 
they had stood one hour, one quart of water was 
added, and they were strained through a cloth and 
frozen slowly ; when the dasher can no longer be 
turned it is removed, the sides of the can scraped 
down and the water-ice thoroughly beaten. It was 
then put in the well left in the pudding in the center 
of the mould. 

MoNTEosE Sauce. — In making Montrose sauce we 
covered one heaping tablespoonful of gelatin with two 
tablespoon fuls of cold water and let it soak thirty 
minutes. We put one pint of cream to heat in a 



TEE WAY WK DID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 271 

double boiler, while we beat the yolks of three eggs 
with one-fourth cupful of powdered sugar until light. 
We stirred the eggs into the steaming cream and stir- 
red until it thickened — about a minute — and then 
added the gelatin and continued to stir until it dis- 
solved. We removed it from the fire and added one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Wiien liquor is used two 
tablespoonfuls of brandy and four tablespoonfuls of 
sherry would be added. When well mixed we stood 
it away to cool. 

Caramel. — In making caramel, which is a N'eapolitan 
ice cream, and differs only from the Philadelphia ice 
cream in having eggs added to the cream, we beat the 
yolks of six eggs until creamy, added one-half pound 
of granulated sugar, beat until very light, and then 
stirred in the stiffly beaten whites of the six eggs. 
We put one quart of cream on to heat in a double 
boiler, and when steaming we added the beaten eggs 
and sugar and three tablespoonfuls of caramel, made 
as I told you in my twenty-fourth letter. We stirred 
constantly until the mixture began to thicken, then 
removed it from the fire, strained it through a fine 
sieve and let it stand until cold; then added one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, poured it into the freezer and froze 
it the same as any Philadelphia ice cream. 

Orange Souffle.— In making orange souffl6, we let 
one-half box of gelatin soak with one-half cupful of 
cold water for one hour, then added one-half cupful 
of boiling water and stirred until it dissolved. We 
mixed one pint of orange juice with one pound of 
sugar, and the next thing we did was to whip one 
quart of cream. We beat the yolks of six eggs to a 
cream and then mixed the orange juice and sugar witii 
the yolks of eggs in a tin or thin granite vessel, whici) 
we placed in a pan of ice water. We strained tiie 
gelatin into the granite vessel arid stirred until it 
began to thicken, then we quickly stirred in th6 whip- 
ped cream and turned it into an ice cream mould, 
which we packed in salt and ice and let it freeze for 
two hours. It should not be frozen as hard as ice 



272 THE yVAY WE DID AT COOKING SGHOOL. 

cream. It is served vritli Montrose sauce poured 
around it. The above quantity will serve ten. 

An endless variety of souffles can be made from this 
rule by changing the tiavoring and adding sugar to 
correspond. 

Lemon Watek-Ice. — In making lemon water-ice wo 
put one and one-fourtli pounds of sugar on to boil witli 
one quart of water. Wlien it boiled we skimmed off 
the scum and added the chipped yellow rind from 
three lemons and one orange to tiie syrup, let it boil 
five minutes and put it aside to cool. We squeezed 
out the juice from four lemons and one orange, being 
careful to reject all the seeds, and mixed this juice 
with the syrup, wliich we strained through a fine 
cloih. We turned it into a freezer which we packed 
as for ice cream. We turned the crank slowl}-^ for a 
few minutes, then rested for about five minutes, 
tlien turned again for a short time and stopped for 
five minutes, and continued so to do until the water- 
ice was frozen pretty hard. It took much longer to 
freeze a water-ice than it did an ice-cream. When we 
could turn no longer we removed the dasher, scraped 
down the sides of the can, and gave the waterice a 
thorough beating with a wooden spatula or paddle. 
V/e put the cork in the lid of the can, drew the water 
from the tub and repacked it, then covered with 
carpet and left it two or three hours to ripen — to 
become mellow and smooth. This quantity will serve 
six. 

When fruit jolly is used instead of fresh fruit, one 
pint of jelly and one half pound of sugar are used to 
each quart of water. 

Fkozen Apricots. — In preparing apricots for freez- 
ing we drained one quart can free from juice, and 
with a silver spoon removed the stones and cut up the 
apricots. We added one cupful of sugar to the syrup 
and enough water to make one and one-half pints. 
We covered two tablespoon fuls of gelatin with' cokl 
water and let it soak thirty minutes. We boiled tiie 
sugar, syrup and water for live minutes, skimmed 



THE WAY WE DID AT COOKIMQ SCHOOL. 273 

carefully, added the gelatin, stirred until it dissolved, 
and then strained all throuo;h a sieve to be sure no 
gelatin was undissolved. We then added the apricots 
and stood the mixture aside to cool. When cold we 
turned it into the freezer and froze it. When frozen 
we added one pint of cream wliich we had whipped, 
and after blending the two we removed the dasher 
and linislied in the same way as a water-ice, leaving 
it two hours to ripen. This quantity was sufficient 
for ten persons. 

Frozen Steawbeeries. — In preparing frozen straw- 
berries we addfcd one pound of granulated sugar to 
one quart of strawberries and tlie juice of two lemons, 
iind let it stand one hour. We then mashed the 
berri3sand added one quart of water and stirred until 
the sugar was dissolved. We then turned the mixture 
into a freezer and froze it slowly, having packed the 
freezer as for ice cream. 

Fresh fruits require twice as much sugar as canned. 

Charlotte KnssE. — In preparing charlotte russe we 
first put one-half box of gelatin to soak with about 
one fourth cupful of cold water for thirty minutes. 
We wliipped one quart of good cream, which we put 
on a sieve to drain. We lined two plain two-quart 
moulds with one-fourth pound of lady fingers. We 
made tliem stay in place by touching them lightly to 
dissolved gelatin and then pressing them against the 
mould. We turned the whipped cream into a thin 
granite vessel, which we placed in a pan of ice water 
or on ice. We next added a little boiling water to 
the gelatin — just enough to dissolve it. We added 
three-fourths of a cupful of powdered sugar to tiie 
cream, and also one teaspoonful of vanilla and one- 
half gill or four tablespoonfuls of sherry, and then 
strained in the gelatin. We commenced at once to 
stir, and stirred from tlie sides and bottom of the 
vessel until it began to thiciien and would retain the 
outline of the beater, tlien we poured it into the 
mould* and placed them on the ice to harden. 



n 



■J74 THE WAY WE BID AT COOKING SCHOOL. 

Oeange Sherbet. — In making orange sherbet we 
covered two tablespoonfuls of gelatin with cold water, 
and when it had soaked thirty minutes we added one 
quart of boiling water and one pound of sugar, whicli 
we stirred over the fire until it boiled and was skimmed, 
and then put it aside to cool. When cold we.added 
the juice of twelve oranges and strained it through a 
line sieve. When cold we turned it into a freezer, 
packed it as for ice cream, and turned the crank rap- 
idly and steadily until the mixture was frozen rather 
hard. We then took out the dasher and added the 
meringue made by beating the white of one egg to a 
froth and adding to it one tablespoonful of powdered 
suijar and beatino; again until it stood alone. After 
stirring the mermgue into the sherbet we beat it well, 
tiien covered and repacked the freezer and let it stand 
to ripen. 

If we had wanted the sherbet served in a form we 
would have chilled the mould by dipping it in cold 
water, and tiien have tilled the mould with the frozen 
mixture, packing it well into the designs. We would 
have put white letter paper over the open end, put the 
lid on, pressed it down tightly, and then have packed 
it in ice and salt. When wanted we would have 
washed the mould in cold water, and, after removing 
the lid, turned the sherbet out on a plate. If it had 
happened to stick we would have waited a short time 
or have washed it again in cold water., Under no 
consideration would we have dipped the mould con- 
taining sherbet into hot water, as that would certainly 
have spoiled the shape of the form, no matter how 
quickly it was done. 

The instruction is ended and examination has begun. 
We have had written examination for several morn- 
ings, and among other things have had to make out 
the menus for three meals for four days for an editor, 
and those for a student for three days, as well as those 
for an over-fat man and for a consumptive for two 
days. We have had certain marketing to do, and 



THE WAT WE DID AT COOKING SGBOOL Z% 

have had such dishes to prepare as they haye assigned 
us; that, in fact, means the preparing of an entire 
meal ; and to show our knowledge of table serving we 
have also had to serve a meal prepared by another 
member of the class. 

In a few more days we will have received our 
diplomas and be ready to begin instructing others in 
the science of preparing attractive and palatable 
viands. It seems to me that the main worlc now to do 
is to educate people to know what is the suitable food 
for them. Cooks and housekeepers would then not re- 
ceive so much undeserved blame, for the health of tiie 
household depends greatly upon the individuaVs selec- 
tion of the food placed before him. Wliat good or 
help to a person can all tlie delectable concoctions 
amount to when he will not touch them, and, for 
instance, persists in eating nothing in the vegetable 
line but boiled greens and potatoes, as I recentl}'' 
heard the lady of a house state was the case with her 
husband. 

I certainly think a housekeeper ought to know that 
she has the proper articles properly prepared for her 
family, and that the young are instructed as to what 
is best under the various conditions of iiealth and en- 
vironment; but beyond that I think each person 
should be held accountable for the use or abuse of 
nnture's provisions. 

I am expecting to make two short visits on the way 
home, but hope to see you within two weeks at the 
furthest. 

Your affectionate cousin, 

YiEGiNiA Reed. 



INDEX. 



FAOB 

ioetio Acid 10 

How Made 129, 130 

Acids, Vegetable 815 

j^ip 29 

Albumins ..'..'..'.'. ..'..70, 187 

Albumin in Vegetables 96, 97 

Difters from Oil 230 

Albumin and Milk 61 

Aliments 14 

Simple 14 

Compound , 14 

Nitrogenous. 15 

Atkattirepta 65, 181 

Allspice 101 

Almonds, To Blanch 206 

Amylopsin 69 

Angelica 54, 93 

Anise 190 

Anthracite 6, 9 

Apees 208 

Appendix 69 

Apples 131 

To Bake 138 

To Can 231 

Apple Jelly 231 

Pie 165 

Sauce 132 

Snow 90 

Water 84 

Arrowroot 181 

Varietie o£ 182 

WithEgg....' 64 

Artichokes, Jerusalem .98 

Methods of Cooking 96^ 

French 98 

How Used 98 

Asparagus 98 

Composition of 98 

To Boil 176 

Asparagin 81, 216 

Asthma 88 

Barley 134 

Water 62 

Baking Powder 807 

Formula for 207 

Baking 22, 23 

Proper Temperature 30 

Poultry and Game .30 

Beans, Composition of 105 

Beef, To Tell and Divide 39 

ForWhatUsed 40, 44 

Digestibility of 45 

Corned 47 

Dried 47 



PAGR 

Beef Croquettes 187 

Heart, Stewed 260 

Juice 61 

a La Mode 252 

Pot Roast 107 

Rib Roast 17 

Rib Baked with Yorkshire Pud- 
ding 107 

Stew with Dumplings 25 

To Corn 33 

Beef Tea, ToMake 60 

When to Use 61 

Beets 54, 96 

Method of Cooking 96 

Bile .' 69 

Birds in Common Use 173 

Methods of Cooking 174 

Biscuits, Hygienic Fig 38 

Potato 241 

Quick !i8 

Sweet Milk 243 

Boiling 22, 23 

Temperature of 23 

Boiler, Double 13 

Books of Reference 4 

Borage 97 

Bouillon 217 

Braising 30 

Brass, To Scour 213 

Bread, Gluten 76 

Quick or Peptik 243 

Eye 122 

Salt Rising ; 113 

White, To Make 118 

Whole Wheat 59 

Yeast 34 

How it Should be Kept 115 

Breakfast Bacon 8;i 

Breakfast Gems 243 

Bright's Disease 80 

Brioche 238 

Broccoli 98 

Broiling, Proper Method of 89 

Krussels Sprouts 104 

Buckwheat 124 

Cakes 124 

Cakes, Quick Way 185 

Bunsen's Burner 10, 11 

Buns 208 

Cinnamon '. 840 

Quick Way 840 

Butter, Making 134 

Rancid .' 134 

To Clarify 134, 148 



378 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Butter, Testing ..; 134, 168 

As Food 147 

Spoiling of 159 

Cabbage 97 

COQiposition of 97 

Stewed 175 

Cacao Butter 230 

Cake, To Bake 207 

Angel Food 210 

Chocolate 210 

Chocolate Eclairs and Chocolate 

Icing 2G5 

CoBfee 803 

Cream Puffs and Filling 811 

Cream Sponge witli Orange Icing 264 

Fruit 2G3 

German 234 

Grafton 50 

Layer 209 

Mrs. Marshairs Cocoauut 239 

Plunkets 263 

Without Eggs 208 

Spice 209 

Cakes, Griddle 243 

Candy 198 

Cream Cherries 143 

Cream Dates 143 

Chocolate Creams 144, 14S 

English Walnut Creams 143 

Neapolitan Cream Blocks 143 

Cherry Glac6s 144 

Grape Glacis 144 

Orange GlacSs 144 

Capers 98 

Capons 172 

Caramel 138, 8)8 

Carbolic Acid 188 

Carbon 9, 19,20, 188 

Carrageen 91 

Carrots 90 

Cauliflower 98 

To Boil 175 

Cecils 135 

Cinnamon 196 

Charcoal 6, 8, 9 

Cheese 135 

Digestibility of 135 

Ramakins 184 

Chervil 97 

Chicory 97, 181 

Chicken, To Select 170 

To Boil and Roast 171 

To Broil 172 

Boned 259 

Brown Fricassee 171 

White Fricassee 172 

In Jelly 155 

East India Curry of 236 

Cutlets... 253 

Stewed 118 

Timbale 8.% 

Chickpeas 104 

Composition of 105 

Chimney, New 5 

Chives 97 

Chocolate 181 

Clabber, Bonny 134 , 



PASS 

Clams 153, 163 

To Prepare 163 

Cleansing, Principle of 230 

Cloves 191 

Coal 5 

To Kindle 5 

Varieties of 5 

For Cooking Purposes 6 

Coal Oil 7 

Coal-Oil Stove 7 

Cockles 153 

Cocoa 181 

Composiiion of 181 

Active Principle 181 

Cocoa 65 

From the Nibs 65 

Cocoanut Milk 235 

Codfish Balls ' 1.36 

Coffee 180 

Composition of 180 

To Make 180 

Coke 6, 8, 9 

Compotes 132 

Compote of Apples 241 

Condiments 189 

Consomm6 218 

Consumption — 75 

Primary Cause 86 

Treatment for 86, 87 

Cookies 808 

Copper 13, 14 

To Scour 213 

Coriander Seeds 180 

Corn 128 

To Prepare 122 

Corn Gems 34 

Corn Meal 123 

Why it Spoils 183 

Cornstarch 188 

Crabs 153 

To Boil and Open 161 

To Prepare 161 

Soft-shelled 162 

Cranberries, Stewed 49 

Crayfish 168 

Cream, To Whip 199 

.Caramel Bavarian 803 

Coffee Bavarian 202 

Clotted 817 

Creosote lO 

Cress 97, 98 

Croutons 99 

Crullers, French '. . 254 

German : 255 

Cumin Seed 190 

Currants, To Clean 806 

Curry Powder 190 

Calcutta 218 

Daisy 97, 98 

Dampers, Position of 4, 83 

Dandelion 98 

Desserts: 

Apple Snow 90 

Blanc Mange 188 

Caramel Bavarian Cream 203 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 803 

Charlotte Eusse 873 



manx. 



m 



„ PAGE 

Desserts: 

Cup Custards 90 

Sponge Apple 808 

Sponge Peach 808 

Velvet Cream 90 

Frozen Apricots 372 

Frozen Strawberries 873 

Baked Ice Cream 868 

Caramel Ice Cream 871 

Ijemon Water-ice 278 

Montrose Pudding 870 

Orange Sherbet 874 

Orange Soufflfi 271 

Strawberry Water-ice 270 

Vanilla Ice Cream 267 

Dextrin 217 

Diabetes 78, 79, 80 

Digestion of Starch 108, 103 

Digestibility of Cake and Bread. . . 229 

Pastry and Puddings 208 

Dish Mop 228 

Disinfectants 20J, 205 

Dock 98 

Dougii,' Why'l't Rises! '.!!!!'..!!!!'.'. 115 

When Ready to Bake 115 

When Properly Baked 115 

Why Sour 21 6 

Doughnuts 255 

Draught of Chimney 4 

Duck, To Select 170 

Varieties / 173 

Salmi of 173 

Dumplings, Fruit 132 

Dyspepsia 74 

Eczema 74 

Eels 152, 153 

Eggs, To Boil 84 

To Crystallize 91 

To Poach 84, 150 

Composition of 149 

Compared with Beef 150 

Digestibility of 150 

Why Become Lighter 150 

Why Produce Lightness 808 

Eggs d. la Newburg : 835 

Egg Ball 220 

Eggs Beauregard 193 

Deviled 193 

Egg, Cutlets 235 

Flip 68 

Seoarated 91 

Soup 63 

Eggnog 01 

Endive 97 

Fabrics, Difference in Texture 3:30 

Farina 67, 113 

Fat 46 

To Clarify 31 

Changed by Heat 308 

fennel Seeds 190 

Fermentation 70, 87, 128 

Ferment for Daily Bread ,. 114 

Fibrin 46, 310, 828 

Fillet, Larded 249 

Fish 151 

Composition of 151 

Nutrition 151 



PAGB 

Pish, Compared with Beef. 15S 

To Determine Freshness of 15] 

Without Scales 16S 

Salt, to Freshen and Cook 153 

To Boil 10^ 

To Lard and Bake 249 

Fish Saut6 186 

Fire, To Fix 6 

To Kindle 5, 8 

Flame 9 

Flour, Browned 34 

Flour 106, 107 

Why White or Dark 107 

Affected by Age 107 

To Measure 207 

Flue 3 

Fondant. 148 

Pood Classified 70 

Liquid, Semi-solid, Solid 229 

Proportions of 71 

Frogs 158 

Fruits 131 

Decay 216 

Difference Between Ripe and 

Unripe 316 

How Prepared 131 

Fruit of Vegetables 104 

Composition of 104 

Fruit, Canned 381 

Dried 138 

Evaporated 132 

Glae6 20S 

Jam 138 

Fruit Stains, To Remove 213 

Frying. 30 

Best Material for 30, 31 

Fuel 5, 7 

Report of Lecture on P 

Garlic 54 

Family of 9? 

Gas 7, S 

Gas Stove 7 

Gasoline 7 

Gasoline Stove 7 

GS.teau St. Honor6 245 

Gelatin 46 

Why Toughened 206 

Japanese 7S 

Giblets 171 

Ginger 197 

Gingerbread, SoCt 36 

Glass, to Clean 214 

Glucose 121 

Glutin loe 

Gluten Gems 77 

Glycerin 198 

Grains, Table of 126 

Gravel 80 

Groats 124 

Gruel,' Apple 65 

Arrowroot, Plain 68 

Carrageen 63 

Farina 64 

German 64 

Indian 63 

Lentil 91 

Oatmeal 68 



S80 



MDWl. 



PAGE 

Gruel, Rice Flour 65 

Sago 64 

Guinea Fowl 173 

To Cook 173 

Gumbo Fillet Po-trder 199 

Haggis 47 

Hash, Plain 33 

Corned Beef 37 

Syrian 141 

Heads of Animals 47 

Hominy 183 

Honey : 189 

Hop Buds 98 

Hops 198 

Hydrogen 9, 10, 11, 145 

Iceland Moss 183 

Ice Water 289 

Indigestion 73 

Intestinal 74 

Stomach 76 

Caused by Cold 89 

Irish Moss 183 

Composition of 183 

Iron 13 

Isinglass 198 

Jelly Bag 199 

To Wash 230 

Jelly, Calf's Foot 82 

■Fruit 132 

Adulterations of 133 

Vegetable or Pectin 138 

Lemon 83 

Wine.. 88 

Jelly Roll 838 

Jumbles, No. 1 241 

Kale 97 

Kidney Sautfe 186 

Stewed 851 

Kneading, How and Why 114 

Knives, to Keep 214 

Of Steel, Why Blacken .. 216 

Kohl-rabi 105 

Koumiss 87, 134 

Digestibility of •. . 134 

Lactic Acid 133 

Lactose 133 

Lady Locks 56 

Lamp, Davy's 10, 11 

Larding 206 

Larding Needle 206 

Lai-doon 206 

Leaven 114 

Leban 87 

To Make 92 

'■ Left Overs " 846, 247, 248 

Lentils 104 

Lettuce 78, 81 

Composition of 97 

Lignite 6 

Liver. 69 

Braised 251 

Loaf, Perfect 112 

Lobster, To Boil and Open 159 

When to Use.. 160 

Coral 160 

" Tomalley " 100 

"Lady" 160 



PASS 

Lobster, To Prepare 160 

TiObster Chops 254 

Macaroni, Baked 183 

Cream 184 

Mace .' 190 

Mayonnaise 1P8, 830 

Meat, Chemical Composition of . . . 23 

Classed as 43 

Tough 22 

Basted with 23 

To Warm Over 47 

Pressed 26 

Meringues ,..< 265 

Microbes 47 

To Cultivate 48 

To Kill Ill 

Milk 49 

Composition of 133 

Nutrition and Digestibility of. . . 133 

Boiled 133 

As Food 168 

Changed by Heat 177 

Microbes in 178 

To Pasteurize 178, 179 

Adulterations of 245 

Mince-Meat 156 

Molasses 189 

Morels 105 

Muffins, English 154 

Mrs. Beeton 's English 238 

Mush 123 

Oatmeal 124 

Mushrooms 105 

Mussels .,..,,... 153 

In Season 163 

To Prepare •. '. 163 

Mustard..., 97 

Mustard Flour 197 

Adulterations of 245 

Mustard Seeds 197 

Mutton 39 

To Divide and Cook 41, 44 

Digestibility of 46 

Nitrogen 71, 75 

Nitrogenous Matter 69, 70, 72 

Nutmegs 190 

Nuts, Brazilian 87 

■ Nuts in Use 174 

How They Grow 174 

DigestibiUty of 174 

Oat Flour 198 

Oatmeal Mush 124 

Oats 183 

Nutritive Vahie 123 

Oil 105 

Digestibility of 106 

Fixed and Volatile 105 

In Fish 153 

In Vegetables 106 

Oil, Care of 138 

Oils and Fats 145, 146 

Oleomargarin 134 147 

To Test 148 

Omelet, Plain 191 

Spanish 193 

Omelet SoufBfi 193 

Onions 38 



INDEX. 



281 



PAGE 

Onions, Varietiesof 97 

For Garnishing 54 

To Obtain Juice from 97 

Orange Baslcets 206 

Osmazone <& 

Oysters 153 

Wlien to Use 154 

To Cream 57 

To Fry 137 

Fricassee of 166 

To Stew 165 

Panada 83 

Pancreas 69 

Paralysis 89 

Parsnips 96 

Paste, Plain 163 

Puff 54 

Pastry Bag 199 

Pastry, Lightness Caused by 808 

Patties, Shells tor 55 

Peachtluice » 65 

Peaches to Stew 38, 132 

Pepper 190 

varieties of 190 

Peppercorns 190 

Periwinkles 1 j3 

Phosphorus -. 229 

Phthisis 86 

Pie, Chicken, Rabbit, Veal, Squirrel, 

Baked 857 

Plants 93 

To Keep 94 

Plum Porridge 63 

Plumbing, Correct 28 

Pneumonia 61, 75 

Poke Shoots 81 

Pop Overs 154 

Pork 39 

To Divide and Cook 43, 44, 45 

Digestibility of 46 

Potatoes 95 

Composition of 95 

Why Heavy or Sodden 95 

To Boil 96 

To Fry 96 

French Fried 136 

Mashed 34 

Stuffed 37 

Potato Starch 198 

Potpie 209 

Poultry, To Truss and Bake. . .116, 170 

To Thaw 199 

Prawns 153, 162 

To Prepare 162 

Proteids ; .186, lf.7, 195 

Prunes, To Stew 38, 132 

Ptyalin 68 

Puddings and Pies; 

Apple 165 

Cranberrj' 165 

Mince 256 

Pumpkin 164 

Batter Pudding with Cherries. . . 200 

Chocolate 182 

Cream Chocolate 866 

Ginger, Miss N.'ft "843 

Lemon Custard. , , S5S 



Puddings and Pies; page 

Iced Rice Pudding with Compote 

of Oranges 269 

New Century 200 

Newport 267 

Plum Pudding, English 866 

Puff Balls, Mrs. Marshall's 839 

Snow 203 

Suet 844 

Wafer SOI 

Quill, To Make 20 

Rabbits 173 

Baked in Pie 25? 

Racahout 66, 181 

Blanc Mange 66 

Powder 65 

Range 4 

Refrigerator gjs 

Rennet ,, 817 

Rheumatism 78 

Rice 124 

To Boil 184 

Rice k 1 Imperatrice 2.37 

Rolls, Vienna 248 

Roastii^, Proper Method 29 

Roast, Rib 17 

Rusks 49, 308 

Kye 188 

Rye Bread 188 

Rye Mush 67 

Saccharine 112 

Sago 181 

Salads; 

Ham, Mrs. Marshall's 839 

Russian S3 

Swedish 53 

Tomato Aspic. 837 

Turkey in Aspic 51 

Salad Dressings; 

French 53, 198 

Mayonnaise 58, 198 

Salamander 199 

Salep 66 

Salsify 96 

Salt 189, 828 

■ When to Add 46 

Samp 123 

Sand Tarts 211 

Sauces; Meat and Fish. 

Bfichamel 136 

Brown 108 

Caper 2 i 

Cream 36 

Drawn Butter 175 

Giblet 117 

HoUandaise 2,50 

Mushroom 249 

Tartare 254 

Tomato 24 

Sauces: Pudding. 

Fairy or Nun's Butter 801 

Foamy 201 

Hard 200 

Montrose : 870 

Our Cooking School 266 

Vanilla 202 

Sauerkraut 104 

Saut^ing , 31 



283 



INDEX. 



PAOE 

Scallops 162 

To Prepare 163 

Scarlet Fever 90 

Schmierk&se 184 

To Make 135 

Scrofula 89 

Seeds, Leguminous 216 

Shrimps 133, 168 

To Boil and Open 162 

To Prepare 162 

Silver, To Scour 213 

Simmering Point 23 

Skin 71, 72 

Sorrel 97 

Souse 45 

Soup: 

Black Bean 101 

Bouillon 217 

Consommg 218 

Cream of Potato 101 

Mock Bisque 219 

Mock Turtle 219 

Oxtail 219 

Pepper Pot 221 

A fa Reine 221 

Tomato with Stock 98 

Tomato without Stock 99 

Turkish 99 

Vegetable, Clear 100 

Vegetable without Meat 17 

Soup Stock 16 

Spinach 80 

Composition of 97 

To Cook 174 

Stains, To Remove: 

Fruit 213 

Grass 213 

Grease 214 

Oil on Wood 230 

Starch 93, 208 

Forms of 94 

Affected by Heat 1C6 

Starches and Ferments 110, 111 

Starvation: 229 

St(!ak, to Broil 83 

Steapsin 69 

Stomach 69 

Indigestion 169 

Stove 4 

Suet 46 

Suet in Milk 92 

Sugar 15, 119, 120 

Various Kinds 188 

How Adulterated 188 

To Clarify 189 

To Dissolve 15 

To Tell Cane Sugar from Glucose 188 

Sweetbreads 45 

A la Bfichamel 258 

Baked, Served with Peas 259 

Syrian Bread 139 

Syrian Cabbage Rolls 140 

Syrian Hash 141 

Syrian Sweets 141, 142 

Syrup 189 

Table Serving..823, 884, 225, 826,227, 228 
Tannin 88 



PAOE 

Tapioca 181 

Tea.... 179 

To Make 180 

Tea, Cinnamon RT 

' Terrapin 169 

Varieties of 169 

To Boil and Open 169 

Philadelphia Stewed 258 

Maryland Method 170 

Test for Starch 104 

Timbale, Chicken 236 

Swedish 237 

Tin, To Scour 214 

Toast, Cream 83 

Toast, Dry 83 

Milk 83 

Tripe 45 

To Pi-epare and Boil 126 

To Stew 126 

Trituration 69 

Truffles 105 

Truffle Needle 206 

Trussing Needle 206 

Turkey, To Select 170 ' 

Galantine of 172 

Turmeric 191 

Turnips, Composition 96 

For Garnishmg 54 

Stewed , 37 

Trypsin 69 

Typhoid Fever 74, 75, 81 

Utensils, Best , 13 

Cleaning 14 

Necessary 12, 13 

Vanilla 199 

To Make Sugar 199 

Veal 39 

To Divide and Cook 42 

Digestibility of 46 

Veal Cutlets 24 

Vegetables, to Cook 20 

Venison 173 

To Prepare 173 

Ventilation 19,20, 88, 29 

Vinegar '. . . .130, 229 

Mother of. 230 

Vol-auVent 57 

WafiBes, Plain 154 

Water.... 1,5 

To Make Hard 20 

To Make Soft 21 

Bubbles Caused. 21, 22 

Apple , „ 84 

Tbast 85 

Weeds, Edible 216 

Welsh Rarebit 185 

Wheat Cracked 67 

Wheat Grain lofl 

Wheat Granules 66 

Whey 317 

Windows, To Clean 214 

Wine, Mulled 62 

Wine Whey 90 

Yeast J j3 

Yeast Plant, to Grow 120, 121, 189 

Yeast with Molasses 217 

Zinc 14 



