







V* .» 







•i" fiO"' 



I-*-" . 



V^ ' • • • J^y 




^<^> ,' *"" 



«-i°X» 



?^~ . V • 







>''* Ay "o. • 




'^6 



oV 




















^ * » ( 1 



"■«., ./..>;,^->o ./.-^i-.^v ./.•>;^->o. w** ■ 
























'^o. 
























.^^ ''^. 



% 







• * " f 










^oV 











.^^ "^^ 













.^^ 





'^o^ 



'^/''•'•'*' .■^ 




. « o ^ -O- 






RECIPE FOR SMOOTH TRAVELING 



TAKE ANY OF THE TRANSCONTINENTAL LINES 
VIA ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS OR DULUTH 
THEN ADD 



SUPERB 
PULLMAN 
BUFFET 
SLEEPERS 
ARE RUN 
BETWEEN 
MINNEAPOLIS. 
ST. PAUL. 
SIOUX CITY. 
OMAHA AND 
KANSAS CITY 
EVERY NIGHT 
IN THE YEAR 
ON THROUGH 
EXPRESS TRAINS 
NOS. 1 AND 2 



IHE 

NORTHWESTERN 

UNE 

[C. ST. P. M. &. O. RY] 



THIS 

IS THE 

LINE 

THAT 

RUNS 

THE 

PRIVATE 

COMPARTMENT 

CARS 

SO 

MUCH 

ADMIRED 

BY 

THE 

LADIES 



3 



Three First- Class Trains Leave Minneapolis 
and St. Paul for Cliicag-o on Arrival of 
Trains From, the West 



3 



THE NEW EQUIPMENT OF THE NORTHWESTERN 

LINE WHICH HAS RECENTLY BEEN ADDED 

TO THEIR THREE ST. PAUL AND CHICAGO 

TRAINS HAS WITHOUT DOUBT MADE 

THIS THE FINEST IN AMERICA. 

T. W. TEASDALE, 

General Passenger Agent, 

ST. PAUL, MINN. 

W. H. MEAD, F. W. PARKER, 

General Agent, Puget Sound Agent. 

248 Washington Street, 601 First Avenue, 

Portland, Oregon. Seattle, Wash. 



MR5. RORER'S 
Philadelphia Cook Book 

A MANUAL OF 

. . . HOME ECONOMIES . . . 

BY 

HRS. 5. T. RORER 

Author of Hot Weather Dishes, Canning and Preserving, etc. ; Editor of 

" Household News"; Principal of Philadelphia Cooking School; 

Lecturer before the Univer.^ity of Pensylvania. 



PUBLISHED BY ARNOLD AND COMPANY 
PHILADELPHIA 



HOUSEHOLD NEWS 

Mrs. Rorer's Month'y Magazine 

Contains New Menus foi- evei-y day in the month, 
with instructions how to prepare the dishes : : : : : 
Answers to Inquirers on all houseliold affairs: 
Simple Menus for those of limited means : : : : : 

rirs. Rorer Writes Exclusively for This flagazine 

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, ONE DOLLAR A YEAR 



HOUSEHOLD NEWS COMPANY, LIMITED 

420 Liberty Street, Philadelphia 

Patronize Our Advertisers. 



^ ::::^GROGERIES 

HEMPHILL, LOVE & CO., 

TELEPHONE PIKE 34 417 PIKE ST. 

We carry a full line of choice Groceries and would call your attention to our 
best goods rather than a cheap line which is always dear at any price. We 
have everything nice to fill the recipies in this book for making cakes, etc. 
Our Butter and Eggs are fresh. Give us a trial order and we will fulfill our 
promises. Goods delivered promptly. 

HEMPHILL, LOVE &. CO., 

TELEPHONE PIKE 34 417 PIKE STREET 

SEHTTLiE, - - UJHSHiriGTON- 



jewelry clocks 

watches —spectacles, etc.— silverware 

Diamonds umbrellas 



W. W. HOUGHTON 

FINE WmXH AND JCWCLRN' RCPaiRING AND CNGRAVINd. 

704 FIRST AVENUE, - SEATTLE, WASH. 

The King of Coffees 

Grown on the Island of Borneo surpasses the best Mocha and 
Java Blend, as cream is better than skim milk to use with coffee. 
We are Sule agent for this coffee in Washington. Roasted daily 
and ground to order. A trial will convince you that you never had 
such a rich cup of coffee. 

J. ^W. HUGHES 

TEA AND COFPKE IMPORTER 

821 SECONC AYE. - - SEATTLE, WASH. 

(ttiobci Steam Haunbrv) ^ 

''•^■^ CARPET CLEANING WORKS. 

LACE CURTAINS AND FAMILY WORK A 
SPECIALTY. 



rWE GUARANTEE ALL WORK= 



W. R. ]V[cGUTGHlN, Proprietor. 



TELEPHONE UNION 36. 



RAUTMAN BROS. 

Plumbing and Hot Water Heating 

ESTINIATES FURNISHED ON APPLICATION. ALL 
JOBBING PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. 

IIOI THIRD AVENUE, - - - SEATTLE, WASH. 

TELEPHONE BUFF 471. 



E DONT COOK 

BUT WE DO SELL 

GL_iOTH:iN'a 

FOR MEN AND BOYS CHEAP. 

J. REDELSHEIMER & CO. 



.'^ucce.swors to Hyams, Pauson & Co. 



THE 

PROGRESSIVyE 
HOUSEWIFE 



Can appreciate the value of an article wheltier it be a piece of 
kitchen utility or parlor decoration. We reach for the intelligent 
buyer, one wlio can appreciate a vast variety and extensiveness 
of selection. If it's something you need for the house see us about 
it. A metropolitan stock and small prices always should win 
your trade. 

STANDARD FURNITURE CO. (Inc.) 
NEW YORK BLOCK. 
CfllRPETS, Df^APEHlES, I^UGS, MATTHMOS 

"What we say we do. we do do." 

H HOME PRODUCT 

pflTE|4T E XGEIiLiEHT 

AND 

j^ OVELiTY "A" p iiOUt^ 

MANUFACTURED BY NOVELTY M I LL CO. 

SEflTTbE, WASH. 



We Carry^ 

ROGER & QALLIET'S 
and PINAUD'S 

PERFUHES, TOILET WATERS AND TOILET POWDERS 

SMITH & KENNEDY 

Prescription Druggists. 
Second Ave. and James St., Butler Bik. 

FREE DELIVERY TELEPHONE MAIN 49 



IMPORTER OF DIAMONDS RICH CUT GLASS 

ALBERT HANSEN 

WATCHES, JEWELRY, SILVERWARE, ETC. 

Fine Watch and Jewelry Repairing 
706 FIRST AVE. SEATTLE 

TITn^ make clcaulincse tbe eesential 
^^^^i tbiuG in our ^atri?. Mc t3uarantcc 
clean, pure milk anb wbippino cream, 
2)elivere^ at popular prices, patronise 
tbe private H)air^ of 

F. O. HOWI^AND 

F*. O. Box 1263, City 

$2.00 A TON NOW 
OILMAN NUT COAL 



This is the Coal that helps in successful cooking. Makes an 
even heat and always burns freely. Try it. Economical and 
satisfactory. 



When ordering Soap fronn 
your dealer insist on either 



EMERALD SOAP 



(.:>H 



BLANCHO SOAP 

Don't let him put you off by saying he has some 
other brand "just as good." These brands are 
made in Seattle by The Seattle Soap Company 
and are guaranteed to be better than any soap on 
the market. 



WE ASK BUT A TRIAL 



GOOD GOAL 

C. J. SMITH, Receiver 

OREGON IMPROVEMENT CO. 

Miners and dealers in the celebrated 

NEW CASTLE, GENUINE FRANKLIN AND MAY CREEK 

C O A L S 

importers of 

ANTHRACITE AND CUMBERLAND COALS. 



OFFICE FOOT OF FIRST AVE. SOUTH 

TELEPHONE MAIN 92 SCattle, WdSH. 



He who eats what's cooked oui* way 
Will live to eat some other clay 





PUBLISHED BY THE 

Women's Guild of St. Mark's Church, 
seattle, washington. 



IJUM 13 189b 






COMMITTEE : 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS, 
Mrs. henry C. COLVER, 

Mrs. HORACE C. HENRY, 

Mrs. JAMES D. LOWMAN, 

Mrs. EDWIN A. STROUT, 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD, 

Mrs. winpield r. smith 



SEATTLE, WASH. 

METROPOLITAN PRINTING & BINDING CO. 

1896 



00 



Copyright, 1890 by 

GAIL R. STEVENS AND SUSIE W. SMITH 

Seattle. 



n PREFACE usually both disappoints and aggra- 
/* vates— it says nothing, with a deal of words; and 
it holds the hungry reader from the feast before his 
eyes. But a cook-book's should more kindly speed on 
rather than hinder from that crowning banquet of liter- 
ature. Yes, crowning: for is it not the essence of all 
things good ? And does it not contain the very proven- 
der which goes to the making of all other books, and with- 
out which even our brains would evaporate? Epitome it 
is, too, of man's deep excogitations and indeed of life 
itself. Here you have mathematics, science, the philos- 
opher's "cause and effect," the "high seriousness " of 
all great poetry— are not our cream-puffs soulful poems 
—the wit's spice and tartness, the artist's daintiest de- 
vice, the arguments of state which make and unmake 
crowns. Nay, only look deeper, and find in that 
microcosm the kitchen, besides the object lessons 
which it fabricates, other most nutricious lessons of the 
Greek's golden moderation and other moralities. But 
of all to be learned there or to issue thence the preface 
cannot give you a first course or even a taste. That is 
not its part. It can only ask you to partake. It is Uke 
a lady who at evening welcomes her guests. Much 
agony hath gone to the morning's work ; and sundry 
costly viands too— else had not her art triumphed. Yet 
of all this not a hint in her voice or mien as she 
smilingly: 

"Madam, the dinnei- is served." 
"Ah, well then, ladies and gentlemen — 
'Now, good digestion wait on appetite 
And health on both.' " 



" To be a good cook means the knotvledge of all fruits, 
herbs, balms and spices, and of all that is healing and meet in 
fields and grove, savory in meat. It means carefilness, in- 
ventiveness, watchfulness, willingness and readiness of appli- 
ance. It means the econorny of your great-gj^andmother and 
the science of modern chemists; it means much iastijig and no 
wasting; it means English thoroughness, French art and 
Arabian hospitality; it means in fine that yo2i are to be per- 
fectly a7id always ladies, and you are to see that everybody has 
something nice to eat.''' — RUSKIN. 



xii) 



AGKNOWLEDGMEMT. 



It would be a pleasure to thank by name each one 
who has assisted this book, but that is impossible. 
Primarily are we indebted to our advertisers. We have 
an added kindly feeling for them because from personal 
experience we know their trustworthiness and the 
merits of the articles they advertise. 

In the compilation we have received especial courte- 
sies from Mrs. Lincoln. Mrs. Rorer, and The Hotisehold 
Nezt's; and also from many a notable housekeeper out- 
side the Parish of St. Mark's. 



(xiii) 



Patronize Our Advertisers. 



TABLE OF 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

2 teaspoonfuls of dry ingredients = 1 tablespoonful 

4 teaspoonfuls of liquid = 1 tablespoonful 

4 tablespoonfuls of liquid — i gill, i cup or 1 

wineglassful 

1 tablespoonful of liquid — i ounce 

1 pint of liquid = 1 pound 

2 gills of liquids = 1 cup or i pint 

1 kitchen cup = i pint 

1 heaping quart of sifted Hour =1 pound 

4 cups of flour = 1 quart or 1 pound 

1 rounded tablespoonful of flour = i ounce 

3 cups of cornmeal =1 pound 

1 i pints of cornmeal = 1 pound 

1 cup of butter — i pound 

1 pint of butter = 1 pound 

1 tablespoonful of butter =1 ounce 

Butter the size of an egg =2 ounces 

Butter the size of a walnut = 1 ounce 

1 solid pint of chopped meat = 1 pound 

10 eggs = 1 pound 

A dash of pepper = i teaspoonful, or 

3 good shakes 

2 cups of granulated sugar = 1 pound 

1 pint of gi-anulatcd sugar = 1 pound 

1 pint of brown sugar = 13 ounces 

2i cups of powdered sugar =1 pound 

An ordinary tumbler = i pint 

2 tablespoonfuls = 1 fluid ounce 



Patronize Our Advertisers. 



Patronize Our Advertisers. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Page 

Preface xi 

Soups 1 

Fish 15 

Meats 29 

Meat and Fish Sauces 41 

A Little Dinner 41) 

Entrees 55 

Cheese Dishes "5 

Chafing Dish '9 

Salads 89 

A Cold Lunch for a Hot Day 101 

Vegetables 103 

Breakfast and Luncheon in 

Eggs 124 

Bread 131 

Household Economy 145 

Pastry 151 

Desserts 159 

Ice Cream and Ices 199 

A French Dinner 212 

Cakes 215 

Eleanor Makes Macaroons (Poem) 243 

How to Keep House Successfully with One Servant. . .245 

Sandwiches 247 

Suggestions for a Christmas Dinner 252 

Preserves, Pickles, Etc •• 253 

Confectionery 255 

The Sick Room 273 

Beverages 281 

Miscellaneous 285 

Unclassified 296 



Patronize Our Advertisers. 

(XV) 



[For ■•Clever Cooking."'] 



L'ENUOI-TABLE TALK 



For a Dinner Party of Thirteen. 



(When making put in a thirteenth line according to taste.) 

For soup, of books well have a rich extract. 

Fish, sallies caug-ht from fancy's sparkling stream: 
And oysters, our young folk in love, with tact 

For sauce to both. In fitting time 'twill seem 
Mete we partake of dish of sage discourse. 

A salad of crisp shoots of gossip-vine 
With char"ty's oil and just a dash (no worse) 

Of malice. But each guest must bring the wine 
Of his own wit. Judgments of frozen sense 

On things of church and state shall be dessert. 
While sweets the gracious hostess must dispense. 

Alas, too soon from feast to crusts we shall revert ! 
M. Treize Inconnu. 



(xvi) 



ERRATA 



Page 11. Tomato Soup No. 3— Read 1 tahlespoonful of cornstarch. 

Page 38. Venison Steak— Read 1 tablespoonful butter instead of water. 

Page 57. Chicken Terrapin— Line .5, read sauce inst^jad of same. 

Page 67. Lobster Baskets— Line 7, read Aea^ instead of beat. 

Page 92. Lactiola Dressing— Line 8, read mustard instead of nutmeg. 

Page 135. Omelette— Line 11, read over instead of once. 

Page 192. Coffee Jelly — Line 1, insert gelatine after box. 

Page 219. Scripture Cake— Line 3, read 22 instead of 24. 

Page 219. Scriptui'e Cake— Line 6, read xliii instead of iii. 

Page 219. Scripture Cake— Line 11, read teaspoonful baking powder. 

Page 225. Nut Cake No. 1— Line 1, read \M cups sugar and !4 cup butter. 

Page 228. Spice Cake No. 2— Line 11, rea.d, floured instead of flavored. 

Page 232. Chocolate Filling No. 2— Line b. read boil instead of cool. 

Page 240. Oatmeal Cookies— Line 1. read II4 cups Quaker Oats. 

Page 355. Jelly— Line 8, read skimming instead of simmering. 

Page 255. Jelly— Line 16, insert not after for. 

Page 268. Maple Creams — Line 3. read hairs instead of is hard. 

Page 270. Molasses Taffy— Line 2, read Pi instead of ;,{. 

Page 279. Soda Mint- Line 3, read cork instead of cook. 



We are indebted to Dr. Sabah J. Dean for a large portion of our Sick Room 
recipes. 



SOUPS 



"F'or Soup is but the first of those delights which go to make 
the coming bill of fare." 



Bouillon 

IVz'll Serve Five Persons. 

1 tablespoonf ul of butter ^ of an onion, sliced 
14^ pounds of finely chop- 1 stalk of celery 
ped beef (from the 3 or 4 cloves 
round) 2 slices of carrot 

1 bay leaf 2 sprigs of parsley 

Shell and white of 1 egg 

Melt the butter in a granite saucepan, add the onion 
and cook until thoroughly brown, when add the beef, 
celery, cloves, carrot, bay leaf and parsley and one 
quart of cold water. Cover the saucepan and stand on 
the back of the stove where it will heat slowly. Let it 
simmer gently for three hours ; strain, return to the 
kettle and bring, to a boil. Beat the white of an q%^ 
with one-half cup of cold water until thoroughly mixed. 
Crush the shell and add it to the q^^\ add this to the 
boiling bouillon. Boil four minutes, stand on the back 
of the stove one minute to settle, and strain through 
cheese cloth. Be sure to wring out the cloth from cold 
water before straining. 

Mrs. C. E. SHEPARD (from Table Talk). 



HORSESHOE Soap will not shrink your flannels 

(1) 



CLEVEB COOKING 



Brown Soup Stock 

Will Serve Eight or Ten Persons. 

4 pounds hind shin of beef 4 quarts cold water 
8 whole cloves 8 whole peppercorns 

4 teaspoonf uls mixed sweet 1 tablespoonf iil salt 

herbs 3 large onions 

1 small carrot 2 stalks celery 

2 sprigs parsley 

Wipe and cut the meat and bones in small pieces. 
Put the marrow, bones, half of the meat and the cold 
water into the kettle. Soak half an hour before heating. 
Add spices and herbs. Brown the onions and the re- 
mainder of the meat and add them to stock. Add the 
vegetables cut fine, simmer eight or ten hours and 
strain. When cold, take off the grease; it may be nec- 
essary to wring a cloth out of hot water and wipe off 
the stock — not a pinhead must be left. To clear it, 
allow the white and shell of one <^%^ to every quart of 
soup, adding the o^^^ when the soup is perfectly cold. 
Beat them well together, then set on the stove, stirring 
until hot. Let it boil ten minutes without stirring. 
Draw it back on the stove and add half a cup of cold 
water. Let it stand ten minutes. Wring a napkin out 
of hot water and lay it on the colander. Put the finest 
wire strainer on the napkin and pour the soup through, 
letting it take its own time to drain. When ready to 
serve, heat to the boiling point. You may serve with 
it in the tureen, thin slices of lemon, glass of sherry, 
or yolks of hard-boiled eggs, sliced. 

Mrs. C. E. SHEPARD. 

Spice Soup 

Good for Dinner Party. 

Boil a large bone all day, and see that your stock 
measures when strained four quarts. Add 2 cups 
tomatoes, 1 teaspoonf ul cloves, i teaspoonf ul each of 
mace, cinnamon and allspice, pepper and salt to taste, 
grated peel and juice of 1 lemon, 1 teacup browned 

WEBB'S Ground spices are perfectly pure. 



SOUPS 3 



flour moistened in water and stirred in while your soup 
is boiling, i dozen hard-boiled eggs, the whites chopped 
fine and yolks added just before serving. 



Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 

(From Webfoot Cook Book.) 



Veal Soup (Excellent) 

Put a knuckle of veal into three quarts of cold 
water, with a small quantity of salt, and one small 
tablespoonful of uncooked rice. Boil slowly, hardly 
above simmering, four hours, when the liquor should 
be reduced to half the quantity; remove from the fire. 
Into the tureen put the beaten egg and stir well into it 
a teacupf ul of cream or, in hot weather, new milk ; add 
a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut; on this 
strain the soup, boiling hot. stirring all the time. Just 
at the last, beat it well for a minute. 

Mrs. albert T. TIMMERMAN. 

(From White House Cook Book.) 

Cream of Mutton Soup 

2^ pounds of mutton 1 cup of tomatoes 

i cup of rice 1| quart of water 

1 tablespoonful of flour 1 quart of milk 

(scant) 1 small onion 

i carrot 1 tablespoonful of butter 

1 tablespoonful of salt Black pepper and cayenne 

1 teaspoonf ul of catsup Sma// bouquet of herbs 

(mushroom, wain at or Tiny bit of mace 

tomato) 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

Put the mutton (neck will do) with the vegetables, 
rice and cold water into the soup-pot. The meat should 
be free from fat and cut in small pieces. When it be- 
gins to boil, skim carefully, and let it simmer for three 
or four hours. (At the end of two hours add the herbs 
and mace.) Then cream the butter and flour together, 
add this, the seasoning and the catsup, and cook for five 
minutes longer. Put the milk into the double boiler. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not draw your hands. 



GLEVEB COOKING 



Put the soup into a colander, rubbing through as much 
as possible. Rinse out the kettle, return the soup to 
it, add the boiling milk, taste for seasoning, add sherry, 
more or less, as you like it, and serve immediately. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Cheese Soup 

1 pint stock, heated 1 pint milk, boiling hot 

1 tablespoonf ul corn starch Yolks 2 or 3 eggs 

1 cup grated cheese 

Put the corn starch into the hot milk, pour into the 
stock, then gradually pour over the beaten yolks, beat- 
ing all the time. Have the cheese in the tureen and 
pour the above mixture over it. 

Mrs. J. W. CLISE. 

Mock Chicken Soup 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

2 tablespoonf uls of flour 2 tablespoonfuls of cream 
li pints of beef stock 1 o.^^ 

Butter size of an <d^^ 

Put the butter and flour in a saucepan, stir until 
smooth; add stock little by little. Just before taking 
from the fire add the cream and q^^ well beaten to- 
gether; salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. T. M. DAULTON. 

Green Turtle Soup 

Take the meat from a can of green turtle, add a 
quart of stock and put in a stew pan, add a bouquet of 
sweet herbs (in a muslin), a dozen peppercorns and a 
half dozen cloves. Put a piece of butter the size of an 
Q^^ into the frying pan and add a small onion, a stalk 
of celery, a small slice of turnip and two slices of car- 
rot, all minced fine. Pry until nicely browned, about 
ten mhiutes, and skim out into the soup. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of flour into the butter and stir into the 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



SOUPS 5 

soup; sbnvier for an hour; skim carefully, strain and 
return the soup to the kettle. Separate the meat as 
much as possible from the vegetables, cut in dice and 
return to the soup with mucilage and green fat (diced), 
which was laid aside in the beginning. Season with 
salt and pepper; boil up; add two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped tine, three tablespoonfuls sherry and serve 
with thin slices of lemon cut in points. Do not boil 
after adding the eggs. Water may be used instead of 
stock. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Ci-ab Soup 

Will Serve Four Persons. 

1 large or 2 small crabs 1 quart new milk 
3 square crackers 1 teaspoonful salt 

Dash of cayenne 2 tablespoonfuls sherry 

1 piece butter size of an q^^ 

Put the meat from the body of the crabs into a 
chopping bowl and chop coarsel}'; add the crackers, 
rolled fine, the salt, pepper and butter. Put the milk 
in a double boiler, and when just at the boiling point 
add the crab meat, etc., and the meat from the claws 
cut in nice bits. Taste for seasoning. Cover for one 
minute, stir well, add the sherry and serve ivimediately . 
The sherry may be omitted (it is not so nice though), 
or you may use more or less, according to your liking. 
A little whipped cream is an improvement. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Oyster Soup 

100 oysters 1 large tablespoonful flour 

\ pound butter 1 pint cream. 

Rub the flour and butter till perfectly smooth. Take 
the liquor from the oysters and let it come to a boil, 
skim well and pour it into a dish. Rinse out the kettle 
carefully. Pour back the liquor and into it put the 

HORSESHOE Soap, Big Cake, sc. 



CLEVER COOKING 



cream, oysters, butter and flour, salt, red pepper and a 
little whole mace. Boil, stirring constantly, until the 
gills of the oysters begin to curl. Serve immediately. 

MRS. W. A. PETERS. 

Claret Soup 

Pour 1 pint of boiling water into a pint of claret ; add 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and i cup of sugar; 
moisten one tablespoonful of arrowroot with a little cold 
water, add it to the hot soup, cook in double boiler just 
a moment and stand aside to cool. May be served 
either hot or cold. By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS CO. 

Split Pea Soup 

Soak ^ cup of split peas for several hours, then boil 
them two or three hours. Have about a pint of water 
on them when done. Rub through a strainer. Add 3 
or 4 cups of milk, a little salt and pepper and 1 tea- 
spoonful of butter. Usually it is thick enough, but if 
not, thicken with a large teaspoonf ul of flour, mixed to 
a smooth paste in a little milk. Serve with croutons. 

Mrs. WINPIELD R. SMITH. 

Split Pea Soup No. 2 

4 cups split peas 2 onions 

1 head celery 1 turnip 

1 carrot Salt and pepper 

2 quarts stock or 2 quarts water and some fresh 

meat bones 

Soak the peas twelve hours, drain and put into a 

kettle with the stock, or 2 quarts of water and some 

fresh meat bones; add the vegetables and seasoning 

and boil about three hours, or until the peas are very 

tender, stirring occasionally. Take out the bones and 

rub the soup through a fine sieve. Serve with dried 

mint and croutons. 

Mrs. bone. 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



SOUPS 7 

Green Pea Soup 

1 quart canned peas 1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 quart of milk i teaspoonful of pepper 

1 tablespoonf ul of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
3 slices of dry bread 

Put the peas, flour, salt and pepper in a saucepan, 
and cook till the peas are soft, then rub through a col- 
ander. Have the milk heated to boiling point in a sep- 
arate saucepan, add to the strained peas with the butter 
and flour rubbed together, taste for seasoning and 
serve immediately with croutons made of the three 
slices of bread. 

Mrs. NINA C. SPENCER. 

Vert Pre Soup 

Take 1 pound of spinach, well washed, put into 
saucepan with enough water to cover, a tiny bit of soda 
and a little salt. Let it just come to the boil, then drain 
and press out the water. Put the spinach into a sauce- 
pan with 

2 ounces of butter ^ pint shelled peas 

2 onions sliced fine A spray of green mint 
A small bunch of herbs 

Simmer fifteen or twenty minutes, then add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, or rice flour, and 3 pints of water. 
Cook all together one and a half hours. Rub the puree 
through a fine hair sieve and to each quart of the puree 
add i pint of cream or milk and yolks of 3 eggs. Stir 
in a double boiler till it thickens, strain into tureen and 
serve with small round croutons. 

Mrs. SILLITOE. 

Spinach Soup 

Boil 1 quart of spinach for ten minutes in salted 
water, drain and rinse in cold water, chop fine and rub 
through a strainer into three pints of boiling milk. 
Thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour. 

Mrs. ANDREWS. 



HORSESHOE Soap for economy and quality. 



CLEVER COOKING 



Puree Priiitanier Maigre 

Vegetable Soup. 



2 large carrots 


2 large onions 


2 potatoes (peeled) 

2 leeks 

2 bay leaves 


2 turnips 

1 pound of asparagus (if in 
season) 


1 good handful of lettuce 
1 tablespoonf ul of flour 
3 ounces butter 


1 sprig of thyme and pars- 
ley 
3 pints of milk 


Yolks of 3 eggs 



Cut up the vegetables and fry well in 2 ounces of the 
butter, add the flour and milk, and simmer three-quar- 
ters of an hour, or until tender; rub through a puree 
sieve. Let it heat again in the bain Marie, or a double 
boiler, and to each quart of puree add \ pint of warm 
cream, to which has been added the remaining ounce of 
butter and the eggs. Stir all well till it thickens. This 
soup may be prepared with stock or water instead of 
milk. 

Mrs. SILLITOE. 

Asparag-us Soup 

2 bunches of asparagus 3 cups of milk 
1 teaspoonful of salt A dash of pepper 

Butter, size of a walnut 1 tablespoonful of flour ■ 
i cup of whipped cream 

Cut off the tender portion of the stalks and lay aside 
to serve as a vegetable. Cut the remainder of the stalks 
into small pieces and boil until tender (it will take about 
three-quarters of an hour), and have a pint of water on 
them when done. Have the milk hot in the double 
boiler, mash the asparagus in the water and strain into 
the hot milk. Rub the butter and flour together, and 
add to the hot mixture ; also add the seasoning. Put 
the whipped cream in the tureen and pour the soup 
over it, and serve hiimediately . 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



SOUPS 9 

Turtle Beau Soup 

1 pint black turtle, or pink 1 onion 
Spanish beaas 1 carrot 

1 beef bone 1 turnip 

5 quarts water 1 teaspoonful whole cloves 

Salt and pepper 

Soak the beans over night ; in the morning drain, 
add the water and bone and boil two hours, when add 
the vegetables and seasoning and boil two or three 
hours longer. Rub through a sieve and pour into 
tureen into which has been put 4 glass wine, 1 lemon 
and 1 hard boiled egg sliced. 

Miss HOPKINS. 

Black Beau Soup 

1 pint black beans, soak over night; in the morning 
drain and put over to boil with enough water to cover, 
and cook until tender; mash and press through colan- 
der; put over the fire again, and add about 1 quart of 
water, 1 tablespoonful of flour. 1 tablespoon ful butter. 
Rub flour and butter together, with 1 saltspoonful of 
mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a small pinch of red 
pepper. When soup is ready to serve add 1 sliced 
lemon and 2 cold boiled eggs sliced. Serve with soup 
dice. Wine may be added if desired. 

Mrs. CHARLES STIMSON. 

Potato Soup 

1 quart potatoes 4 quarts water 

2 medium-sized onions minced Salt, pepper and butter 

fine, or 1 head celery minced 

Boil the potatoes in the water till tender, drain (sav- 
ing the w^ater), mash fine, add the seasoning and the 
onion or celery. Cook in the same water one-quarter 
of an hour longer. Stand on the back of the stove and 
stir in two eggs well beaten with a cup of cream or 
milk. Let the soup get /lo^ again, but not boiling. 

Mrs. ISA AC H. JENNINGS. 

HORSESHOE Soap for Luck. 



10 CLEVER COOKING 



Celery Soup 

1 bunch of celery 1 pint of boiling water 

1 pint of milk 1 large slice of onion 

1 large tablespoon ful flour 1 cup of whipped cream 

Pepper and salt A small bit of mace 

Boil the celery (cut up line) in the water forty-five 

minutes. Let the milk, with the onion and mace, come 

to a boil, then skim these out and strain the celery into 

the milk; thicken with the flour, wet with a little cold 

milk, and cook eight minutes. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Pour into the tureen, and just before serving stir in the 

whipped cream. An egg may be substituted for the 

cream. 

Mrs. C. J. SMITH. 

Vegetable Oyster Soup 

1 pint of vegetable oysters 3 cups of milk 

cut fine 1 teaspoonful salt 

Butter size of a walnut i cup rolled crackers 

Have the milk hot in the double boiler. Cook the 
vegetable oysters until very soft, and have about a pint 
of water on them when done. Rub the vegetable oys- 
ters through a strainer, using the water in which they 
were cooked, and add to the hot milk. Add the salt 
and butter. Just before serving add the rolled 

crackers. 

Mrs. W infield R. smith. 

Laura's Soup 

1 pound can tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls chopped 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped carrots 

celery 4 tablespoonfuls chopped 

2 cloves onions 

Piece cinnamon 1 inch long 1 bay leaf 
2 teaspoonsfuls salt i teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 teaspoonful sugar 
2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Fry (slowly) the vegetables in the butter for half an 
hour, add the other ingredients to the tomatoes, also 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



SOUPS 11 

one quart of water and boil slowly for half an hour; 

then put all together and boil half an hour longer; 

thicken with the flour; strain and serve. This is enough 

for six or eight persons. 

Mrs. L. G. BANNARD. 

Tomato Soup No. 1 

1 small onion chopped fine Butter size of an e^g 
1 can tomatoes 1 pint boiling water 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 tablespoonful Worcester- 

TV teaspoonful cloves shire sauce 

Salt, pepper and a dash of 1 tablespoonful corn starch 
cayenne 

Strain through a colander. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 

Tomato Soup No. 3 

1 can of tomatoes 1 quart of boiling water 

i of an onion 

Boil these twenty minutes and thicken with : 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 1 tablespoonful of butter 

Rubbed well together and melted with a few spoon- 
fuls of hot tomato juice. Let come to a boil, strain and 
serve with fried bread dice. 

Mrs. CALVIN E. VILAS. 

Tomato Soup No. 3 

Wz7l Serve Five or Six Persons. 

1 can of tomatoes 1 quart of milk 

1 teaspoonful of salt Soda sufficient to cover end 

1 scant teaspoonful of corn of a teaspoon 

starch 

Boil the tomatoes and boil the quart of milk each 
separately. Strain the tomatoes and throw into them 
while hot the pinch of soda. Make thickening of the 
tablespoonful of corn starch in same quantity of cold 
milk. Add this to boiling milk and let the mixture boil 

HORSESHOE Soap will not ruin your clothes. 



12 CLEVER COOKING 

five minutes; then throw the tomato juice into the hot 
milk, stirring gently as you do so. Add teaspoonful of 
salt and serve immediately. 

Mrs. D. C. GARRETT. 



Tomato Soup No. 4 

IVi// serve Six or Eight Persons. 

1 quart tomatoes 3 soda crackers 

1 quart sweet milk \ teaspoonful soda 
1 tablespoonful butter Pepper and salt 

Roll the crackers very fine; boil the tomatoes until 
thoroughly done (in using fresh tomatoes it is well to 
put on a little more than a quart, as they boil down), 
put through a strainer and return to the kettle to come 
to a boil again. Bring the milk to a boil, being careful 
not to burn it. Add to the tomatoes the crackers and 
soda, stir well to make smooth; then pour into the boil- 
ing milk, boil up once as quickly as possible, stirring 
constantly; put on a cooler part of the stove and add 
the seasoning. Pour into the tureen in which you 
have put the piece of butter. Be sure the tomatoes and 
milk a7r both boiling when you mix them. This may be 
made in the morning and reheated for dinner in a double 

boiler. 

Mrs. J. McB. SMITH,' Victoria. 



Noodles 

Two eggs Pinch of salt 

Two tablespoonfuls of water 

Mix well and add flour until very stiff. Roll out as 
thin as possible and cut with sharp knife in narrow 
strips. Have ready a kettle with plenty of boiling 
water, drop the noodles in and allow them to boil five 
minutes. Then drain and serve with butter as a veg- 
etable. Or without butter in soup. 

Mrs. a. W. ENGLE. 



WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



sours 13 

Croutons for Soup 

Cut slices of bread into squares, lay in a pan, drip 
good melted butter over them, place in the oven and 
toast until a light brown color. Use as desired for gar- 
nishing or for serving v^ith soup. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 



14 CLEVEB COOKING 



FINE TABLE DAMASKS 

We make a specialty of fine liousekeeping linens, 
of which we cari*^^ a large stock 

DAMASKS, NAPKINS, DOYLIES AND CRASHES 



Bleached Table Damasks at 50c, 60c, 75c, 85c, 95c. 

72-inch Table Damasks at $1.00, $1.15, $1.25, $1.50. 

2A yards wide Table Damasks at $1.75, $1.85, $1.95 
and $2.25 a yard. 

Unbleached Table Damasks at 25c, 374c, 45c, 50, 60c. 

72-inch Unbleached Table Damasks at 75c. 

Turkey Red Damasks at 25c, 35c, 50c, 60c. 

Damask Dinner Napkins at $1.50, $2.00, $2.50, 
$3.50 and $4.50 per dozen. 

Damask Dinner Napkins, 7-8 sizes, at $3.50, $4.50, 
$5.00, $6.50 and $7.00 per dozen. 

Square Doylies, white, all sizes. 

Circular Doylies, white, all sizes — Tray Cloths. 

•White Damask Cloths, all Linen, 8-4, 10-4,12-4, 14-4. 



PERFECT LIGHT TO SELECT WITH. 





ftLL k CO. 



COR. SECOND AYE. AND MADISON ST. 

SEATTLE. 



FIS/i 



"An oyster may be crossed in love." — IShcndan. 



The following general rules for fish will hold good 
for all kinds. 



Selection of Fisli 

Great care should be taken to preserve the freshness 
of fish, as no other food deteriorates so rapidly in 
flavor. Fresh fish should be firm and the skin and scales 
bright. When it does not look so, do not buy it, as it 
will only be a disappointment. Do not ivash the fish 
until J2ist before rising. An old fish-dealer is our author- 
ity for the statement that slimy coating always found 
on fish is a great factor in preserving its freshness, 
therefore if the fish is to be kept some hours before 
using, scale, clean and scrape it w^ell, sprinkle a little 
salt on the inside, and just before using wash once 
quickly in cold water. Do not let the fish stand in the 
water or the best flavor will be lost. 

Boiled Fish 

There are three ways of boiling fish. The length of 
time required for a fish weighing four or five pounds is 
thirty minutes. A fish weighing more than six pounds 

HORSESHOE Soap will not shrink your flannels. 

(15) 



16 CLEVER COOKING 

should cook five minutes longer for every two pounds 
additional. 

Firs/ Method — Pin the fish in a strong white cotton 
cloth, then plunge in kettle of boiling water and sim- 
mer gently for thirty minutes. Hard boiliyig breaks the 
fish. 

Second Method — Lay the fish on a cloth or plate and 
place in steamer and simply steam until done, about the 
same length of time as for boiling. 

Third Method — Put in a double boiler, or if one has 
not a double boiler large enough, put the fish in a lard 
pail and set in the large kettle of boiling water. The 
flavor of the fish is preserved best in the two latter 
methods. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 

Baked Fish 

1 fish weighing about 5 lbs 1 pint of bread crumbs 
Butter size of walnut \ teaspoonful of pepper 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

Scrape and w^ash the fish clean if not already pre- 
pared, then rub into it a tablespoonful of salt. Mix 
together the bread crumbs, butter and seasoning for the 
stuffing and moisten with cold water. Put this into the 
body of the fish and fasten with skener. Cut gashes 
across the fish about two inches apart, one-half inch 
deep and two or more inches long and into each put a 
strip of salt pork, dust over pepper and salt and 
sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs or flour, according 
to taste. Put into the roasting pan and bake one hour, 
basting frequently; the bottom of the pan should be 
covered with hot water when the fish is first put in. 
Serve with drawn butter sauce, or any of the fancy 
sauces suitable for fish. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



VISU 17 



Fried Fish 

The best method for frying lish is to first prepare your 
fat by frying slices of salt pork a crisp brown, remove 
and place around the edge of your platter. Have your 
fish 'well covered or rolled in flour and Indian meal 
mixed and salted ; then lay it in the frying pan and fi'y 
in the salt pork fat. Pry brown on one side, then turn 
and fry on the other. Be sure to have the fat smoking 
hot w^ien the fish is put in and fry quickly. Serve 
very hot, garnished with the salt pork and parsley or 
lemon sliced. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 

Broiled Fisli 

Always use a double broiler to facilitate turning the 
fish. Before using rub the broiler with butter or a 
piece of salt pork to prevent the fish from sticking. 
The size of the fish will have to be the guide to the 
length of time required in cooking; a fish weighing four 
pounds requiring twenty minutes to half an hour. In 
broiling, the inside of the fish should be put over the 
coals first. Great care is required not to burn the skin. 
Mackerel will cook in from twelve to twenty minutes. 
After the fish is removed to the platter it should be 
spread generously with lumps of butter. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 

Smelts 

Split the smelts down the back, take out the intes- 
tines and backbone; most of the side bones will come 
with it; wipe clean and salt the inside lightly. Roll in 
salted corn meal and fry quickly in very hot deep fat, or 
in butter. The fat must be very hot to brown quickly 
or the fish will become hard. Serve with tartare sauce. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not ruin your clothes. 

c. c— 2 



18 CLEVEB COOKING 



Fish Tuibot 

Steam until tender awhite-meated fish. When done, 
remove the bcnes, pick up very fine, and season witli 
pepper and salt. 

Dressing 
1 pint of milk 1 tablespoonful of ilouV 

A large lump of butter 1 or 2 eggs 
Onion and parsley 

Heat the milk, salt to taste, and thicken with the flour. 
When cool, add the butter (melted), eggs well beaten, 
and season with onion or parsley. Put in the baking 
dish a layer of fish, then a layer of sauce, until full; 
cover the top with bread crumbs, and bake half or 
three-quarters of an hour. Canned salmon, any cold 
boiled fish, or salt codfish freshened, can be prepared in 
the same way, and is very Dice. 

Fish Cream Cutlets 

Chop, with a silver knife, 1 pound of uncooked hali- 
but rather fine, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of minced almonds, a drop or two of onion 
juice, a dash of cayenne and the unbeaten white of 1 
eg^. Mix well, and stir in I- pint of whipped cream. 
This cream must be stiff and fine. Put this mixture 
into small cutlet shaped moulds; stand them in a steam- 
er and cook about ten minutes. Turn carefully from the 
moulds. Cover the bottom of the serving dish with 
cream sauce, arrange the cutlets, put a pretty sprig of 
double parsley in the "bone" end of each and serve 
very hot. Sightly and very good ; quite new. By per- 
mission of 

Mrs. S. T. ROREU and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS CO. 

Flaked Fish Steamed 

1 cup of cold fish 2 cups of mashed potatoes 
^ cup of cream or milk 2 tablespoonfuis of melted 

2 hard boiled eggs butter 

1 raw egg 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

1 teaspoonful of salt h sallspoonful of pepper 

A dash of cayenne 
1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley 



FISH 19 

Flake the fish carefully. To the hot mashed potato 
add the cream and melted butter, stir in the fish, then 
the hard boiled eggs chopped fine, followed b^^ beaten 
egg and seasoning. Steam for one-half hour in but- 
tered pudding mould. Serve with either cream or to- 
mato sauce poured over it. 

Mrs. GEORGE H. HEILBRON. 

Creamed Fish 

Take any nice, firm fleshed fish. Boil and remove 

the bones. Chop 1 small onion and a little parsley 

very fine and mix in with the fish, adding salt and pepper. 

Put it in a deep dish and cover with bread crumbs about 

two inches deep. Put small lumps of butter over it and 

add a little nutmeg (if you like it), and pour sweet cream 

over it until it. is all wet. Bake in a quick oven till 

nicely browned. 

Miss MALTBY. 

Baked Salmon 

For Fish Weighing Four or Five Poiaids. 
Leave fish whole and fill with dressing made as 
follows : 

2 cups of bread crumbs 

1 tablespoonful of butter 

1 scant teaspoonful of salt 

1 teaspoonful of thyme or summer savory 

Sew up fish and bake one hour; place slices of salt 
pork over fish ; baste often; enough water should be 
put in pan to keep it from burning. Serve with cream 
sauce made as follows : 

Cream sauce (have ready in saucepan) 

\ cup of hot water 

^ teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce 

1 cup cream or rich milk 

2 tablespoon fuls of butter 

1 tablespoonful of flour or corn starch 

Add drippings from pan in which fish was baked; 
flavor with parsley chopped fine. 

Mrs. JAMES FIELDS. 

HORSESHOE Soap for Luck. 



20 CLEVER COOKING 

Salmon in Mould 

1 can salmon or 1 pound 4 tablepsoonfuls of butter 

of cold boiled salmon 1 cup of bread crumbs 
3 eggs Milk, pepper and salt 

Chop the fish and rub it in a bowl with a silver 
spoon with 4 tablespoonfuls of butter until it is a paste. 
Beat the bread crumbs with the well-beaten eggs and 
season with salt and pepper; adding this mixture to the 
salmon and working all together with a little milk or 
cream. Put in a covered buttered mould and boil one 
hour and a quarter. Turn out and serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce: 

1 cup of milk 1 tablespoonful corn starch 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 1 teaspoonful of catsup 
Pinch of mace Pepper 

1 teaspoonful of chopped 1 egg 

parsley 

Boil the milk and thicken with the corn starch and 
butter. Add the seasoning, pour all carefully over the 
beaten egg, cook one minute and pour over the form of 
salmon. Serve hot. 

Mrs. S. W. R. dally. 

Escalopecl Halibut 

[f^/7/ Serve Six Perso/is. 

2 teacups halibut Ij teacups milk 

I teacup fine bread crumbs 1 heaping tablespoonful 
1 teaspoonful onion juice flour 

1 tablespoonful finely chop- 1 tablespoonful butter 

ped parsley Salt, cayenne 

Take 2 cups of cold boiled halibut, pick into small 
pieces, removing all bone and skin. If a white or egg 
sauce was served with the fish and there is any left mix 
with tlie fish. As there is rarely enough left make a 
small quantity of white sauce. Mix one half of the 
sauce with the fish, the parsley, onion juice, salt if 
needed, and another speck of cayenne if needed. Butter a 
shallow pudding dish, put the fish in, smooth the top, 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. U.se them. 



FISH 21 

cover with the remainder of the sauce (and also a 
sprinkle of parsley, so allow a little more than the 
tablespoonful), then the bread crumbs and i tablespoon- 
ful of butter scattered in bits over the bread crumbs. 

Put the dish in a pan of boiling water and put in a 
rather quick oven for twenty minutes. Should brown 
nicely in that time. 

Mrs. EDMUND BOWDEN. 

Halibut V la Poulette 

Sprinkle three slices of halibut with the juice of 1 
lemon and salt and pepper. Put a slice of onion on 
each and set away for thirty minutes. Dip each piece 
in melted butter, roll up and fasten with a toothpick. 
Put in a pan and dredge with flour and bake twenty 
minutes. Remove picks, sprinkle with the yolks of 3 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped very fine. Pour over the 
sauce and garnish with the whites of the eggs cut into 
rings. 

Sauce. 

Boil i tablespoonful of onion and 2 teaspoonf uls of 
butter and 2 tablespoonf uls of flour together until done. 
Stir in slowly 1 cup of soup stock, 1 cup of cream, 1 
teaspoonful salt, ^ teaspoonful of pepper, boil up once 
and strain and add 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Mrs. E. W. ANDREWS. 

Fish Croquettes 

Any fish ma}^ be used for croquettes, but the white 
meat is the best; for instance, halibut. After boiling, 
pick the fish into sf/ia/l pieces, taking out all the bones. 
Mix with a white sauce, season with salt and pepper, 
and a little chopped parsley, if desired. Shape into 
cylindrical balls, roll in crumbs, then egg, then crumbs 
again, and fry in deep lard. A nice way to use up cold 
fish. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. smith. 

HORSESHOE Soap for economy and quality. 



22 CLEVER COOKING 



Steamed Clams 

Wash the clams thoroughly with a stiff brush. Fit a 
steamer with a soup plate, or better a jellycake tin. so that 
there is a margin all around to allow the steam to come 
up freely. Pile the clams on the tin. put in the steamer 
and cover closely. The kettle should be boiling hard 
and there should be plenty of water when the clams are 
put in. It will take fifteen minutes, or longer, for the 
clams to open, according to size, and they should be as 
nearly one size as possible. Have prepared some nice 
rounds of toast, /loi; quickly take out the clams and lay 
on the toast, squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the 
tin with the clam liquor, add a dash or two of cayenne 
and pour over the clams; then bathe in melted butter, 
so that each clam is moistened. If you are gja'ck 
you can cut off the black heads with scissors, which will 
improve them, but you nu/si 7wt let them cool. Serve 
immediately. The clams should be in the steamer only 
jiist long enon^h to open. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Devilled Clams No. 1 

Serve Eight Persons. 

4 qt. xmil of clams (with 1 cup of cream or milk 

shells on) 1 tablespoonful of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 tablespoonfuls of dry 
Yolks of 2 raw eggs bread crumbs 

1 tablespoonful of chopped Salt and i')epi3er to taste 
parsley 

Remove clams from their shells. Drain and rinse 
them. Chop very fine. Scald the cream (or milk). 
Rub the butter and fiour together until smooth, add to 
the scalded cream and stir until it thickens. Then add 
bread crumbs, eggs and parsley. Take from the fire, 
mix well together, stir in the clams, add salt and i^epper. 
Do not add salt until the clams are stirred in for they 
may flavor the mixture sufticiently. Fill clam, scollop 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



FISH 23 

or silver shells, brush over with the beaten yolk of an 
egg. sprinkle with bread crumbs and brown in a hot 
oven. 

Mrs. Wm. H. De wolf. 

Devilled Clams No. 2 

25 good sized clams 1 small onion 

3 crackers rolled fine 1 small piece of bacon 

1 tablespoonful of butter 

Chop together the clams, onion and bacon and dredge 
with the crackers. Wash some large shells, fill with the 
mixture which should be well seasoned with salt and 
pepper. On each shell put a small piece of butter and a 
sprig of parsley. Roast about fifteen minutes and serve 
hot. 

Mrs. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 

Waldorf Clam Broth 

1 quart "• shucked " clams, boiled until perfectly ten- 
der, then squeezed until entirely dry. Season the juice 
thus obtained nicely with butter, pepper, salt and a hint 
of onion juice; thicken a little with flour. Serve in 
bouillon cups vcrj' hot. Just before sending to table 
put 1 tablespoonful of whipped cream on top of each cup 
(do not stir it in). If you cannot obtain fresh clams, you 
can get an excellent substitute in bottled clam juice. 
Very nice for luncheons and card parties. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Clam Pot Pie. 

1 quart clams 

1 dozen crackers pounded fine 

Place a narrow rim of paste round the upper part of 
the baking dish. Then sprinkle a thin layer of the 
cracker over the bottom of the dish, then a layer of 
clams; over them plaee small pieces of butter, salt and 

HORSESHOE Soap, Btg- Cake, 5c. 



24 CLEVER COOKING 



pepper. Repeat until the last two layers, when use 
soda crackers in place of the powdered. Moisten the 
whole witli a little milk, cover with a nice paste and 
bake like a pie. 

Mrs. V. A. RITON. 

Clam Chowder 

75 to 100 clams Onions, chopped 

4 slices of salt pork Crackers 

Clean the clams thorc^ughly, and if large, cut into 
small pieces. Fry the pork crisp, and chop. Sprinkle 
some of this in the bottom of the granite or porcelain 
kettle, lay upon them a stratum of clams, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, and scatter bits of butter profusely 
over all. Next have a layer of chopped onions, then one 
of small crackers split and moistened with milk. On 
this pour a little of the fat in which the pork was fried. 
Repeat, beginning with the chopped pork. Proceed in 
this manner until all the clams are used. (The clams 
may be divided into two equal parts, making two com- 
plete layers.) Pour over all the liquid from the clams, 
and add enough water to cover all. Stew slowly, with 
the stew pan closely covered, three-quarters of an hour. 
If the chowder thickens too much while cooking, add 
more water. 

Oyster Bouillon 

Chop oysters finely, put into a double boiler and heat 
very slowly to draw out the juices. Put into a cheese 
cloth and press out the liquor. Return to the fire, clarify 
and strain as for beef bouillon, add an equal quantity of 
hoi milk; season and serve. A little whipped cream im- 
proves it. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Oyster Cocktail 

Served in punch or champagne glasses or bouillon 
cups. To every glass allow: 



o 



FISH 25 

1 tablespoonful of lemon juice 

1 tablespoonful of strained tomato 
tablespo(^nfuls of tomato catsup 

i teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce 

2 tablesi^oonfuls of Sound oysters 

1 drop tobasco sauce A little salt 

If the tomato catsup is very mild, put in no strained 
tomato and proportionately more catsup. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Oyster Fricassee 

Dry the oysters. Have some butter in a sancepan, 
and when it is brown add the oysters. Keep stirring 
them all the time in the hot butter, until they swell up; 
then add 1 pint of boiling cream, in which you have 
stirred 2 tablespoonfuls of Hour; salt and pepper to 
taste. Have some large crackers warmed and on your 
meat platter, and pour your oysters over them. 

Creamed Oysters 

Put a bit of onion as large as a bean, and \ of a blade 
of mace, with a pint of cream, into a double boiler. Put 
1 quart (or can) of Eastern oysters into a saucepan and 
let cook in their own liquor until they are plump and the 
edges begin to curl. Skim and set aside where they 
will keep hot but not cook. When the cream comes to 
a boil, thicken with a tablespoonful of flour mixed in a 
little cold cream or milk; let boil up. season with salt 
and cayenne, skim out the onion and mace. Drain the 
oysters and add to the cream. A dessert spoonful of 
sherry may be added if liked. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Frizzled Oysters 

Have ready on a platter sufficient toast, which has 
been dipped quickly into hot, slightly salted w^ater, and 

HORSESHOE Soap will not draw your hands. 



26 CLEVEB COOKING 

buttered. Turn the oysters, with only their own liquor, 
into a very hot frying -\)i\,n\ season with salt and pepper. 
Soon as their edges begin to curl, stir in a large spoon- 
ful of butter, and turn immediately over the toast. 
Nice for breakfast. 

Oysters eii Beiire Noir 

1 pint of oysters 2 tablesx^oonfuls of butter 

l^tablespoonfuls of vinegar Salt, and a dash of cayenne 

Drain and rinse the oysters, let stand a half hour and 
cook in the liquor formed until plump, sprinkle with 
salt. Brown the butter, but be careful not to burn: add 
the pepper and vinegar, then the oysters. Fill Dresden 
fritters and serve hot. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 

Oysters Served in Shells 

Drain six large oysters and wash the shells. Mari- 
nate the oysters with melted butter, salt and pepper 
and minced parsley. Fill the shells and cover with 
rolled bread crumbs. Put bits of butter on top and 
brown in a very hot oven. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 
(Mrs. Hinckley's Portland cooking class.) 

To Fry Small Oysters 

1 quart of oysters 3 eggs, well beaten 

1 cup of corn meal 

Drain the liquor from the oysters and wipe them 
dry. Take three or four at a time and dip into the egg, 
then in the meal, and again in the egg, keeping the oys- 
ters together. Put them on a platter until all are 
treated in this way. and then fry a few at a time in equal 
parts of hot butter and drippings. Olive oil may be 
used instead of butter and makes them very rich. Sea- 
son with red pepper and salt to taste. Cook until 
brown, turning carefully to keep them in shape, and be 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



FISH 27 

sure they are well done. Serve very hot with slices of 
lemon. 

Mrs. CHARLES .T. RILEY. 

Toasted Oy.ster.s 

Wrap one large or two or three small oysters in very 
thin slices of bacon, having put a little cayenne and 
lemon juice on the oysters. Stick toothpicks through 
to hold in place, and broil or fry till bacon is crisp. Do 
not take out toothpicks. Serve ho/. 

Miss HOPKINS. 

Olympia Oy.sters on Toast 

1 quart of oysters 1 cup of cream or rich milk 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 table sx^oonfuls of Hour 
1 leaspoonful of lemon Salt and cayenne pepper 

juice 

Drain the oysters and throw them into a hot pan and 
stir carefully until they look plump. Heat the butter, 
into which stir the flour, rubbing until smooth, and add 
gradually the cream. When thoroughly cooked x)our 
over the oysters in the pan, heat through, put in the 
salt and pepx^er and lastly the lemon juice. Pour over 
crackers or nicely toasted bread. 

Mrs. a. W. ENGLE. 

WEBB'S Extracts are trix^le strength. Use them. 



28 CLEVER COOKING 



mmmmvf!!f!!rmMrwmi?fvn!fmnrmmmvfvr 



THE FULTON MftRKET, 

Is acknowledged to be the leading tlrst- class 
Market of the city. Our supply of Meats, 
Poultry and everything in the general market 
line are selected from the choicest that the 
market atTords, and our service is tlrst-class. 
We handle the F.-B. Co. brand of Hams, Bacon 
and Lard, which have no superior, a home pro- 
duct and very mild cure. 



MF 





HINCKLEY BLOCK, 



iiuuiuiiuuiiuumiuiuiuiuiuiuiuiiuuiuiuiuiu 



MEATS 



"O I the roast beef of Old England."— i'^ieMtny. 



" Venison's a Caesar in the fiercest fray, 
Turtle an Alexander in the way : 
And in quarrels of a slighter nature, 
Mutton's a most successful mediator." — Pindar. 



Roast Beef 

Buy a prime roast (first, second or third ribs). 
Have the butcher cut off the ends of the ribs, making a 
standing roast. Wipe clean with a damp cloth; do not 
wash. Put a heavy steel frying pan onto the range and 
let it get very hot. then put the roast in and sear over all 
the cut surfaces. This keeps the juices in. and if thor- 
oughly done, a small roast can be made almost as juicy 
as a large one. Salt and pepper the meat, run a steel 
skewer through the fleshy part to keep it from bulging; 
put the meat rack in the pan, place the roast on it, cut 
side up. and dredge well with flour, not forgetting the 
pan. Put in the oven, and when the flour in the pan has 
browned, add enough hot water to just cover the bot- 
tom. The oven should be very hot at flrst. and should 
be diminished a little after ' the roast has browned. 
From this time baste every five minutes, keeping only 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



30 CLt:VER COOKING 

enough water in the pan to prevent burning; any more 

makes too much steam and draws out the juices. An 

8-pound roast will be well done on the outside and rare 

in middle in one hour. Save the ribs cut off, for braised 

short ribs. 

Mrs RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Braised Short Kibs 

2 or 3 short ribs 1 onion 

5 slices salt pork 

Put the salt pork on the stove in a braising or drip- 
ping pan and slice the onion in it. fry till a golden 
brown, dredge the ribs well with flour and brown also: 
then cover with a i:)int of liot water, set in the oven and 
cook for three hours, having the braising pan closely 
covered. Baste often and add more water if necessary. 
This is a very satisfactory M^ay to treat any of the 
tougher cuts of meat. Sprinkle quite thickly with pep- 
per and salt; it is imx)ossible to give exact quantity as it 
would vary with weight of meat. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 

Leg- of Lamb With Dressing:. 

Buy a hind quarter of spring lamb, have the leg cut 
oft' and boned the same as a fillet of veal. The remain- 
der of the quarter may be cut into chops. Make dress- 
ing, using about 1^ cups of grated bread, 1 tablespoonful 
of minced mint, salt and pepper, soft butter sufficient 
to moisten slightly, and about half as many chopped 
pecans as bread crumbs. Rub the meat with salt and 
pepper inside and out. put in the dressing, taking care 
to fill the cavity so as to give shape to the leg. but do 
not press too tight or the dressing will be heavy. 
Roast about fifteen minutes to the pound; baste very 
often, or it will be dry. Put a bouquet of herbs, or a few 
sprigs of mint in the pan. and serve with a nice brown 
or mint sauce, or with a mint sorbet. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



MEATS 31 



Leg of Mutton 

Peel back the outside skin and with a sharp pointed 
knife make shts or gashes, into which force thin shces 
of salt pork which have been rolled in equal parts of 
ground cloves and allspices. Replace the sldn and 
roast, basting frequently. 

Mrs. HELEN M. HUNT. 

Boiled Dinner 

If one will only take the trouble, it pays to corn the 
beef and thus avoid the use of saltpeter. To corn: Put 
a pint of rock salt to 1 gallon of cold water, let it come 
to a boil, skimming carefully. Cool before putting in the 
beef. A six pound piece of the flank is a good piece. 
Leave in brine four or five days. Cook in a kettle large 
enough to hold both meat and vegetables. Put the meat 
on in hot water and boil three hours before adding the 
vegetables. These can be used according to taste. The 
usual ones are potatoes, cabbage, turnips and beets; 
some, however, add carrots and parsnips. Put the first 
three into a wire basket on top of meat, keeping all 
covered with water and boil one hour, making four 
hours the entire time for boiling meat. The beets, on 
account of discoloring the other vegetables, should be 
boiled in a sejjarate kettle, and unless very young will 
require two hours boiling. 

A boiled dinner may be served in two ways. The 
meat on a large platter, with the vegetables placed 
around it. or the potatoes and turnips mashed sepa- 
rately or together, and beets and cabbage each in a 
vegetable dish. 

Mrs. SARAH CONANT. 

Veal Cutlets 

Dip the cutlets in Qgg. then in bread crumbs, and 
cook on top of the stove until brown on both sides. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not shrink your flannels. 



CLEVER COOKING 



Then cover and cook in the oven about three-quarters 
of an hour. Make a brown thickened gravy, of the fat 
in the pan after the cutlets are removed, a good lump 
of butter, some Hour and heated milk. Pour over the 
cutlets on the platter. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 

To Fry Chicken 

Joint the chicken as for frying; put into a dish and 
set into a steamer, which should be ready with the water 
boiling, and steam until tender. Take up and fry 
quickly in voy hot fat. half butter and half beef suet, 
until lightly browned. Serve with a cream gravy. An 
onion and a stalk of celery cut up finely and put into the 
steamer with the chicken gives a good flavor. This 
method is for a chicken a year old. 

Mrs. IIINCHLIFPE. 

Koast Turkey or Chiokeii 

Having prepared the fowls for roasting, make a thick 
dough of Graham flour and water and roll out one inch 
thick. Have it large enough to cover the fowl com- 
pletely. Butter the fowl thoroughly, then place the 
. rolled dough over, being careful to press down around 
the neck and legs. Pour boiling water into the pan 
about one inch deep. Have the oven very hot. keep just 
enough water in the bottom of pan to prevent burning. 
One-half hour before serving time remove the imn from 
the oven and lift off the dough blanket. The turkey 
will be tender, but white. Cool the oven and brown the 
turkey. There is no basting or opening of the oven 
door except to see that the water in the pan has not 

boiled out. 

Mrs. HINCHLIFFE. 

Toiijfue With Sweet Gravy 

Boil a fresh beef tongue in salt water until very ten- 
der, having about 1 quart of water when done. Roast 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



MEATS 33 

as brown as possible without burning (in a large skillet), 
a large teacupful of flour, in half butter and half lard. 
Thin it out slowly with the liquid, stir till smooth, ad- 
ding a few cloves. ^ teacupful of sugar and h^ teacupful 
of strong vinegar; also a teacup of raisins and a little 
more salt if necessary. SMn the tongue while hot. cut 
in slices and place w^hile warm on a large meat dish, 
pouring the gravy over it and garnish with a few slices 
of lemon and blanched almonds. 

L. M. THEDINGA. 

Curried Mutton 

1 cup of cold mutton cut 1 small onion 

in dice li cups of new milk 

1 heaping teaspoonful of curry 

Fry the mutton and onion together with a good lump 
of butter. When brown add the milk and thicken with 
flour, into which the curry has been stirred. Boil in a 
double boiler at least an hour. Serve with boiled rice, 
putting curry in the center of platter, arranging the 
boiled rice around it. When the curry is done it should 
be the consistency of thick cream. 

Mrs. T. M. DAULTON. 

Jellied Tongue 

One cup of the liquor in which the tongue was 
cooked. 

2 cups good stock of any ^ box of gelatine 

meat except mutton 1 gill of cold water 

1 cup of boiling water 2 tablespoonf uls of vinegar 

1 glass of sherry 1 cold boiled tongue, sliced 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two hours. 
pour over it the boiling water, the stock and the tongue 
liquor, heated. Unless the stock is highly seasoned, 
boil a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, slice of onion and a 
few sweet herbs in a cup of water and then strain 
this and pour it over the gelatine instead of using the 

HORSESHOE Soap will not draw your kands, 

c. c— 8 



34 CLEVER COOKING 

]Dlain boiling water. Flavor the jelly with the vinegar 
and sherry, pepper and salt, strain through a cloth. 
When the jelly begins to harden pour a little of it in a 
mould, first wetting the mould in a little cold water. 
Arrange slices of tongue on this, jiour in more jelly, 
then another layer of tongue and so on until the mate- 
rials are all used, having jelly on top. Set the mould on 
ice until hard, then turn it out and slice. 

Mrs. albert T. TIMMERMAN. 

FreiK'h Mutton Stew 

Cut the mutton in pieces one-half the size of the 
hand. Place in a stew pan with 1 tablespoonful of hot 
fat and brown on both sides. Now add 1 tablespoonful 
of tiour. mix well and add just enough stock or water 
to cover the meat. Slrim while boiling one-quarter of 
an hour. Add two small onions sliced. Cook steady 
one hour more. 

Mrs. L. H. GRAY. 

Spiced Beef 

Boil a three or four-pound pot roast slowly for three 
or four hours. Chop very fine. Add ^ teaspoonful of 
cloves, cinnamon and a pinch of nutmeg. Salt and 
pepper to taste and turn into a mould. 

Mrs. bone. 

Egg' Diinipling'S 

1 egg 1 cup of milk 

1 heaping teaspoonful of Flour to make quite a thick 
baking powder batter 

Drop into hot gravy, cover over and cook about ten 

minutes. These are nice with stewed chicken or with 

lamb or mutton stew. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 



WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



MEATS 35 

Sausages 

H pounds of pork 1^ pounds of beef or veal 

7 wineglass sage, rubbed 1^ tablespoonfuls of salt 
fine 1 tablespoonful of pepper 

Use a patent meat chopper; mince thoroughly. 

Mrs. HELEN M. HUNT. 

Veal Loaf No. 1 

2 pounds veal \ pound salt pork 
Six crackers, rolled 2 eggs 

1 teaspoonful salt h teaspoonf ul pepper 

i nutmeg grated Butter size of an egg 

i cujj cream 

Mince the meat together, add seasoning, eggs well 
beaten, butter and cream. Form into a long loaf, cover 
well with the cracker crumbs, and bake. Baste fre- 
quently with sweet milk. 

Mrs. CORWIN S. shank. 

Veal Loaf No. 2 

3 pounds veal ^ cup bread crumbs 
i pound salt pork 3 eggs 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoonfuls salt 

1 teaspoonful pepper 

Mix well and put in tin. put cracker crumbs on top. 
and dot with butter. Bake three-quarters of an hour, 
basting with butter and water. 

Mrs. BENTON. 

Jellied Veal 

2 pounds breast of veal 1 teaspoonful of thyme 

1 teaspoonful of savory ^ teaspoonful of marjoram 

Salt Pepper 

Nutmeg 2 bay leaves 

4 tablespoonfuls of parsley \ lemon 

chopped 3 eggs hard-boiled 

Cut the veal into small pieces and put with the bones 
into boiling water. Simmer one hour. Remove the 



HORSESHOE Soap for economy and qualit5^ 



36 CLEVER COOKING 

meat and add to the bones and water, the herbs and sea- 
soning. Simmer two hours, strain and pour over the 
other ingredients which have been arranged in a deep 
buttered dish as foUows: A layer of smah pieces of 
veal, over these sprinkle salt, pepper, a little lemon 
juice and grated rind; also a suspicion of nutmeg. Then 
a layer of hard-boiled eggs cut in thin slices, chopped 
parsley sprinkled between, another layer of veal, with 
seasoning as before ; so on until all the veal and q^^ are 
used. Pour the hot soup over this; when cold turn out 
and cut in thin slices. Serve very cold. 

Mrs. S. W. R. dally. 

Beef Loaf 

4 pounds round of beef, chopped fine 
4 soda crackers, rolled 
6 eggs, well beaten 
\ cup butter, melted 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Make in loaf and bake one hour. 

Mrs. H. C. henry. 

Pressed Meat 

Four pounds of beef (the part that is called the 
"thick flank") boiled until it is very tender, then remove 
from kettle and chop very fine, season with salt and 
pepper, then add the broth in which the meat was 
cooked until quite soft. Set away to cool and slice like 
beef or veal loaf. This is very nice for lunch. 

Mrs. albert T. TIMMERMAN. 

French Rag-out 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

3 fbs lean beef 4 medium sized onions 

1 tablespoonful of French coloring flour 

Cut the meat in about two-inch squares, season and 
roll aW/ in flour. Slash onions in quarters (do not cut 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



MEATS 37 

apart), and stick a whole clove in each quarter. 
Sprinkle flour plentifully in bottom of baking pan or 
sauce i^an. put in onions, then the floured meat and 
tablespoonf ul of caramel or French coloring, cover with 
water and simmer in oven four hours, putting on more 
water as it is needed. 

Mrs. EUGENE RICKS ECKER. 



Brains 

. To Serve Six Persons. 

1 quart of brains i! eggs 

6 soda crackers 

Beat the eggs well and roll the crackers very fine. 
Cover the brains with cold water, to which add a table- 
spoonful of salt, and let stand over night. In the morn- 
ing put them into warm water for a few minutes, after 
which carefully remove all particles of the tissue which 
surround the soHd part. Next put them into boihng 
water and let them simmer for ten minutes to make them 
firm. Take them up, drain and wipe, and dip, one at a 
time, first in the q^^, then in the cracker, and lastly in 
the Q^^. Take equal parts of butter and drippings 
(lard or cottolene if preferred), and when very hot fry 
the brains. Turn them often and be careful that they 
are thoroughly cooked. When done they should be a 
rich brown color. Season with pepper and serve very 
hot. 

Mrs. CHARLES J. RILEY. 

Creamed Frogs 

Parboil the frogs, then make a rich cream sauce of 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour. 1 
cup of cream and a tiny bit of mace, salt and cayenne. 
Add the frogs, cover closely for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, adding more cream if it becomes too thick. Skim 
out the mace and serve very hot on toast. 

HORSESHOE Soap, Big Cake, 5c. 



38 CLEVER COOKING 

Venison Steak 

Venison steak \h inches 1 tablespoonful water 

thick 1 saltspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice - tablespoonfuls quince jelly 
\ pint claret or Madeira A bit of mace 

A pinch of cayenne 

Melt the butter in a frying pan, put in steak, cover 
and cook three minutes; turn and cook three minutes 
longer. Add the other ingredients and simmer all to- 
gether six minutes. Serve on hot plates. 

Stewed Pigeons 

Pick, draw and clean, then lay in cold salted water 

for one hour. Put to cook in a pot with cold water to 

cover them. Stew until quite tender, then add milk, 

butter, pepper and salt to taste. Thicken with flour 

and milk and serve. Doves may be treated in the same 

manner. 

Mrs. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 

Native Wild Duclis 

First in excellence is the mallard, then thfe teal, and 
the widgeon, during the winter months. 

Dry pick the duck, singe, clean thoroughly and wipe 
dry with a clean towel. If badly shot wash in cold salt 
water or even soak half an hour in salt and water, wip- 
ing well before stufting. The stufting : 

2 teacupfuls stale bread 1 tablespoonful of butter 

crumbs \ (scant) teaspoonful dried 

Pepper and salt thyme 

Crumb the bread very fine, add the seasoning and 
the butter broken in bits. This quantity will stuff one 
mallard or two teal or other small ducks. Tie secure- 
ly, rub the outside with pepper and salt and a little but- 
ter, very little if the duck is very fat. put in pan. breast 
side up in a moderate oven with just enough water to 
keep from burning. Cover with another pan and cook 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



MEATS 39 

one hour or a ^nyfe more for a mallard or large duck. 

Do not baste as it makes the dressing wet. If not 

brown enough remove the cover ten minutes before 

serving. Skim the gravy in the pan. add more water 

if necessary and thicken with flour. Season and serve 

/lof, with currant jelly. 

Mrs. J. W. EDWARDS. 

Broiled Game Birds 

Take any small birds, draw, clean and wipe quickly 
with a damp cloth, split down the back, rub with salt 
and pepper, and broil over hot coals. Put each bird on 
a triangle of toast and pour over a sauce made as fol- 
lows: 

Bread Sauce for Game 

1 cup of bread crumbs 1 slice of onion 

1 cup of stock Salt and pepper 

Put in the double boiler, cook half an hour, strain 
and add 1 large tablespoonful of butter. Serve at once 
on a hot platter. Garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 

Quail au Delire 

i ft) of bacon \ lb veal liver 

1 bay leaf 1 shallot 

\ carrot, chopped A little chopped onion 

Salt and pepper 

Pry the bacon, add the liver cut in small pieces, the 
vegetables and seasoning and stew^ until cooked. 
Pound together with a few mushrooms, and rub 
through a sieve. This force meat will stuff two birds. 
Put a piece of butter on the breast of each and roast 
half an hour, if liked rare, longer if to be well done, 
baste every ten minutes. For the sauce, add 1 cup of 
stock to the baking pan, thicken, add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of currant jelly, season and serve vety hot. Pigeon, reed 
birds or any small tender birds cooked after this man- 
ner are delicious. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 

HORSESHOE Soap for Luck. 



40 



CLEVER COOKING 



MEAT AND FISH SAUGES 



Epicurean coolcs sharpen with cloyless sauce liis appetite. 

— Shakesjifye. 



Drawn Bxitter 

1 tablespoonful flour 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 cup of boiling- water i teaspoonful of salt 

Dash of pepper 

Melt the butter and stir in the flour; add carefully 
the water, then season. 

Many other sauces are made with drawn butter as 
a foundation : 

Caper Sauce — Add 3 tablespoonf uls of capers. (Boiled 
mutton. ) 

Egg Saiice — Add 1 egg, hard-boiled and chopped fine. 
(Fish.) 

Satice Piquant — Add 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, 
2 teaspoonfuls each of chopped olives, pickles, parsley 
and capers. 

Brown Sauce 

1 tablespoonful of butter Salt 
1 tablespoonful of flour Pepper 

1 tablespoonful of (mion 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice 
1 cup of stock 

Chop the onion and fry in butter; then add flour; 
then the stock and seasoning; strain. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not shrink your flannels. 

(41> 



42 CLEVER COOKING 

The following sauces can be made by using brown 
sauce as a foundation: 

Mushroom Sauce — Add ^ cup mushrooms. 

Olive Sauce — Add 8 olives chopped. (Game.) 

Wi7ie Sauce — Add ^ cup wine and 1 tablespoonf ul of 
currant jelly. Thicken a little with flour. (Venison.) 

S. W. S. 

Mint Sauce 

For Lamb 

1 cup fresh chopped mint \ cup sugar 

^ cup vinegar 

Use only leaves and tender part of mint. Let it 

stand an hour before serving. Use more sugar if the 

vinegar is strong. 

Mrs. LINCOLN'S COOK BOOK. 

Aiicliovy Saiice 

For any kind of Fish 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
1 tablespoonful of lemon parsley 

juice i teaspoonful of salt 

3 tablespoonfuls of anchovy paste 

Mix all the ingredients and knead well in a bowl. 
Should be perfectly smooth. By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 

<'elery Sauce 

For Boiled Fowl or Turkey 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour ^ cup of butter 

1 pint of milk 3 heads of celery 

Mix the flour and butter, add the milk hot. Cut the 
celery into small bits and boil a few minutes in water, 
which strain oft'. Put the celery into the butter and 
milk, and stir over the tire for five or ten minutes. 

(The Home Cook Book.) 

WEBB'S Ground spices are perfectly pure. 



MEAT ANB FISH SAUCES 48 

Parsley Butter 

for Oyslers, Fish and Vegetables. 
Cream 1 heaping tablespoonf ul of butter, add i tea- 
spoonful salt. \ saltspoonful pepper and 1 tablespoon ful 
chopped parsley. 

Mrs. LINCOLN (in the American Kitchen Magazine). 

Bearnai.se Sauce 

Crab Chops, S/eak or Fried Fish — French. 
Beat the yolks of 4 eggs, add \ cup of best olive oil. 
and when well mixed add \ cup of hot water. Set the 
bowl over the tea kettle, or in a pan of boiling water, 
and cook till thick, stirring constantly. Take from the 
tire, beat well and add salt, a dash of cayenne, and a 
tables poonful of vinegar; Yarr agon is best; let cool. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

For Fish. 
Make a drawn butter sauce, remove from fire and 
add yolks of :2 raw eggs, juice of half a lemon. 1 table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and 1 teaspoonful of onion 
juice. By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 

Horse Kadish Sauce 

Potato Balls or Fish. 
Chill 1 cup of thick cream and beat it until thick 
enough to hold in shape. Add \ teaspoonful of salt, 
7 saltspoonful of pepper, and 3 tables poonfuls of pre- 
pared horse radish. If fresh grated horse radish is 
used, add 2 tables poonfuls of vinegar and 1 teaspoonful 
of sugar to the radish. Keep this in a cold place, as it 
should be stiff and thick when used. If served on the 
dish with hot meat, put it in a shallow sauce dish, and 
cover the dish with a garnish of water cress. 

Mrs. LINCOLN (in The Amei-ican Kitchen Magazine). 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



44 CLEVEE COOKING 



White Sauce 

1 pint of milk 2 tablespoonf uls of butter 

1 tablespoonful of flour 4 teaspoonfuJ of salt 
\ saltspoonful of pepper 

Heat the milk over hot water. Put the butter in a 
granite sauce pan and stir until it melts and bubbles. 
Be careful not to brown it. Add the flour dry and stir 
quickly till well mixed. Pour on one-third of the milk. 
Let it boil and stir well as it thickens; tip the sauce pan 
slightly to keep the sauce from sticking. Add another 
third of the milk, lei it boil and thicken and stir until 
perfectly smooth. Be sure that all the lumps are 
rubbed out while it is in this thick state. Add the re- 
mainder of the milk; let it boil and when smooth put in 
the salt and pepper. 

A richer sauce is made as follows: 

Cream Sauce. 

1 cup hot cream 1 heaping tablespoonful of 

1 heaping tablespoonful butter 

of flour ^ teaspoonful of salt 

7 saltspoonful of pepper 

Make in the same manner as the White Sauce. 

Mrs. LINCOLN'S Boston Cook Book. 

Use the White Sauce for turnips or carrots cut in 
dice and for cauliflower. Use the Cream Sauce for 
fish, oysters, crabs and sweetbreads prepared in shells. 
Mix with the Cream Sauce, put in the shells, cover 
with bread crumbs and bits of butter and brown. 

Sauce AUeiuaucle 

French — For Fish. 

2 ounces butter 2 ounces flour 

1 pint clear soup stock Salt and pepper 

Yolks of 3 eggs 

Melt the butter and mix thoroughly with it the flour; 
add immediately the stock and seasoning, boil fifteen min- 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



MEAT AND FISH 8AUCE:S 45 

utes, remove from fire and carefully skim off the grease. 
When it has ceased boiling add the yolks mixed in a 
little water and stew in quickly with an egg beater so as 
to make the sauce light. 

Mrs. ICRASTUS BRAINERD. 

Sauce 

for Onions, Turnips, Carrots and Spinach. 

1 ounce butter 1 ounce flour 

1 pint milk 1 onion 

^ ounce lean raw ham Salt and pepper 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the onion 
sliced, the ham and seasoning. When beginning lo 
color slightly moisten with the milk; stir well and boil 
ten minutes. Strain and serve. 

Mrs. ERASTUS brain ERD. 

r 

Lemon Sauce 

For Boiled Chicken. 

1 ounce butter 1 ounce flour 

Salt, pepper A little nutmeg 

1 glass water Juce of 1 lemon 

Rub flour and butter together; season; add the 
water, stirring until it boils; then add another ounce of 
butter and the lemon. Strain and serve. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

Bread Sauce 

For Game. 

1 onion 4 ounces of bread crumbs 

Salt and pepper 1 glass of milk 

1 glass of cream 

Chop the onion fine, put in the saucepan with the 
bread crumbs which have been put through a sieve: 
add seasoning, and milk. Boil ten minutes, add cream 
and serve. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not ruin your clothes. 



46 CLEVEB COOKING 

Sauce Borrtelaise 

Peel and chop line 4 cloves of garlic and put in 
saucepan with 3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil. When 
slightly colored add 1 tablespoonful of chopped par- 
sley. This should not be made until just ready to 

serve. 

Mrs. erastus brainerd. 



Tomato Sauce 

J^or Beef. 

Put into saucepan 1 ounce of raw ham, 1 carrot, 1 

onion, a little thyme, 1 bay leaf. 2 cloves, 1 clove of 

garlic, T ounce of butter; simmer for ten minutes; add 1 

ounce of flour well mixed in ^V pint of tomatoes, and 1 

glass of consomme. Boil for one-half hour; season 

with salt, pepper and a mite of nutmeg. Strain and 

serve. 

Mrs. erastus brainerd. 



Sauce Tartare 

Fish. 

Make a mayonnaise, but use double the quantity of 
mustard. Chop 1 pickle and 1 tablespoonful of capers 
and dry in a napkin. Chop some parsley, 1 green onion 
and a few Yarragon leaves. Mix all with the dressing. 

Mrs. erastus brainerd. 



Meat Sauce 

4 ripe tomatoes 1 large onion 

1 tablespoonful of butter 

Chop the onion, add the tomato and butter, season 
with salt, pepper, a little cayenne and stew gently for 
fifteen minutes. Serve hot with any meats. 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 47 

Bechamel Sauce 

For Vegetables, Eggs and Chiche?i. 

1 tablespoonful of butter ^ cup of stock 
1 tablespoonful of flour Yolk of 1 egg 
i cup of milk Salt and pepper 

Melt the butter in a sauce pan, but do not brown, 
add the flour and stir till smooth. Add the stock and 
milk and stir constantly till it boils. Take from the 
fire, add the salt and pepper and egg well beaten. 

Mrs. NEUFELDER. 

Chestnut Sauce 

Roast Turkey. 

Blanche the chestnuts. Cook in stock until soft. 
Mash fine in the stock. Thicken with flour and butter 
rubbed together. Salt and pepper. One-half cup of 
cream may be added. 



48 CLEVER COOKING 



A LITTLE DINNER 



"•Without good company, all dainties 

Lose their true relish, and like painted grapes 

Are only seen, not tasted." 



The giving of a small dinner in a household where 
several trained servants are kept is a matter of little 
moment to the hostess, who has simply to notify her 
cook of the number of guests expected, give her orders 
as to menu, etc., and then dismiss from her mind all 
feeling of responsibility, and await with composure the 
arrival of her guests. In the ordinary home, however, 
where as a rule one, or at most, two maids are kept, 
the addition of several guests to the dinner table re- 
quires much thought and preparation which necessarily 
must devolve upon the mistress. Successful dinner- 
giving, like genius, implies an infinite capacity for tak- 
ing pains. In giving a small dinner of. say, six guests 
in addition to the family, it is necessary to first con- 
sider the resources of the household in the way of 
dishes, silver, etc., as upon these will depend the num- 
ber of courses in the menu. This inspection completed, 
the next step is the preparation of the menu, not for- 
getting in the consideration of each dish the possibil- 
ities of the cook in the way of losing her head at the 
prospect of guests. It is a good plan to select only 
those dishes which the cook has tried before, as even 

HORSESHOE Soap for Luck. 

C. C— 4 (49) 



50 CLEVER COOKING 



the best of cooks frequently fails to succeed in the first 
trial of a new receipt. As far as possible it is advisable 
to select dishes which may be prepared the preceding 
day. thus lessening the work and confusion on the day 
of the dinner. Salted almonds, cheese sticks, pateshells 
and all kinds of blanc mange and jellies should be pre- 
pared the day before. The question of menu settled, 
all orders should be given the day before, so that no 
harrowing non-arrival of some essential article shall 
mar the composure of the hostess. On the morning of 
the day for the dinner the mistress should exj)lain to 
the waitress which plates and other dishes are to be 
used for each course; it is a good plan to write on slips 
of paper the words. "Fish." "Roast." "Salad." 
"Entree," etc.. and put the paper on top of 
the pile of plates to be used for that pur- 
pose. A menu should be prepared very plainly 
and distinctly written, giving the exact order in 
which the courses are to be served, stating what dishes 
are to be passed with each course and when to use the 
crumb knife. The menu may be "written thus : 







MENU. 


1. 


Raw Oysters 




2. 


Soup. 


Pass crackers. 


3. 


Fish. 


Pass potatoes, then bread. 


4. 


Roast. 


Pass vegetables and celery, 


5. 


Entree. 


Pass jelly. 


6. 


Sorbet. 




7. 


Game. 


Pass olives. 


8. 


Salad. 


Pass cheese sticks. 


9. 


Use crumb knife. 


10. 


Pudding. 




11. 


Ice Cream. 






Fi-uit. 


Cake. Nuts. 
Cheese. 



12. Coffee. 



The menu should be pinned in a conspicuous place 
where the maids may refer to it readily. After the 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



A LITTLE DINNER 51 

table is set the mistress should make a thorough in- 
spection of the dining room, to see that the necessary- 
extra silver and china is laid out upon the sideboard, 
that the arrangement of decorations and of lights is sat- 
isfactory and that the temperature is neither too high 
nor too low, as none but a thoroughly competent 
waitress could be trusted to attend to these details. It 
is better to err on the side of too low a temperature for 
the dining room than too high, as with the lights, the 
warm food and the number of people, the room is like- 
ly to become uncomfortably warm. With final ad- 
monitions to the maids in regard to the different viands, 
the warmth of the soup, the coolness of the water and 
other details, the mistress should try to slip up to her 
room in time to insure at least a few moments quiet and 
rest before dressing to receive her guests. At the ap- 
pointed time the maid should throw open the doors of 
the dining room, and upon the signal "Dinner is 
served," the host should lead to the dining room, escort- 
ing the lady in whose honor the dinner is given, the 
other guests following, and the hostess last of all with 
the gentleman to be most honored. Confusion is 
avoided by having name cards at each place, the guests 
of honor of course being seated at the right of the host 
and hostess. If the first course consists of oys- 
ters these are upon the table when the guests 
enter the dining room, and as either a cube of 
bread or a roll has previously been placed in a 
fold of the napkin for each guest, no dishes are to be 
passed during this course. The maid stations herself 
back of the chair of the host and after the oysters are 
eaten, at a look from the mistress she removes the 
plates. The dishes should always be served at the left 
side and removed from the right side. Taking care not 
to pile too many dishes upon her tray at once, the maid 
swiftly and no-iselessly transfers the oyster plates to a 
table in the kitchen assigned to that purpose. After 
the oysters follow soup, with which crackers are usu- 



52 CLEVEB COOKING 



ally passed; then fish with its accompanying cucumbers 
or other relish; then roast entrees, sorbet, game and 
salad, each in turn served with its accompanying dishes 
in strict accordance with the written menu. When the 
salad is finished, all side dishes, and salts and peppers, 
should be taken away and all crumbs removed neatly 
with a crumb knife or napkin and the maid should see 
that the necessary dessert forks and spoons are at each 
cover. If preferred the dessert may be placed before 
either the host or hostess, who will serve her guests, 
the maid standing ready to pass each plate as it is 
served. After the pudding course has been removed 
comes either the pastry or ice. When this course is 
finished finger bowls may be placed at each plate, and 
at the same time come fruits, nuts, and raisins. Last 
of all the coffee in small cups, which should be served 
fresh and very hot. When dinner is over, the hostess 
gives the signal to arise and the host leads to the draw- 
ing room, after which the gentlemen, if they wish, may 
retire to smoke. 



CLEYEK COOKING 53 



54 CLEVEB COOKING 



MENU 



▼TTTTTTTT 

Oysters on a Block of Ice 

Potage a la Reine 

Celery Salted Almonds Olives 

Smelts a la Tartare 

Parisienne Potatoes 

Roast Chicken, Chestnut Stuffing and Sauce 

Green Peas Potato Timbale 

Criistades of Asparagus 

Tomato Salad 

Water Crackers Neufchatel Cheese 

Custard Souffle Cream Sauce 

Strawberry Tee Cream Cake 

Fruit Nuts 

Coffee 



WE CAN FURNISH THE MATERIALS 
FOR ALL. OF THE RECIPES IN THIS 
MENU, CONTAINING 

MEATS, FiSN, VEGETABLES, FRUITS OR NUTS 

IN FACT EVERYTHING- IN SEASON WHICH 
IS USUALLY FOUND IN A FIRST-CLASS 
CITY MARKET. 



PACIFIC MARKET COMPANY, 

TELEPHONE MAIN 126. 803 FIRST AVE. 



ENTREES. 



A genial savour 

Of cei'tain stews and roast meats and pilaus, 

Things which in hungry mortal's eyes find favor. — liyron. 



When art and nature join th' effect will be 
Some nice ragout oi* charming fricassee. 



Curry Hawaiian 

Wi// Serve About Eight People. 

1 small cocoanut, or 1 cup 1 quart of milk 

dessicated cocoanut \ teaspoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of curry 1 teaspoonful of butter 

powder A few shreds of onion 

Put on the stove and stew^ for half an hour or 
longer. Thicken with a tablespoonful of corn starch 
mixed in a little milk. For shrimp curry add the 
shrimps, heat through and serve. For oyster curry 
put them into the mixture and boil up once. For 
chicken, mutton, beef or veal curry, cut the meat in 
small pieces, place in a sauce pan with a tables])Oonf ul 
of butter and fry a nice brown, add to the curry mixture 
and set back to cook slowiy an hour if uncooked meat 
is used. Serve with rice. 

Mrs. NINA C. SPENCER. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not draw your hands. 

(66) 



56 GLEVEB COOKING 

Kussiaii Entree 

Boil fresh tongue. When nearly done pour off the 
water and add fresh water in which put 1 pound of 
prunes, previously soaked ten hours, and 1 lemon 
sliced very thin. Shmiier until prunes are done. When 
ready to serve throw in 2 wine glasses of Madeira. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

Veal Olives 

6 large slices veal 3 slices salt pork 

2 cups bread crumbs 

Trim uniformly the veal, spread with chopped pork 
and bread crumbs well seasoned with salt, pepper and but- 
ter; roll up and bind with small skewers — small wooden 
toothpicks do very well. Lay in pan; add 1 cup boiling 
water and roast, basting often with melted butter. 
When done remove the skewers carefully and make a 
brown gravy to pour over the olives. Serve with tart 

jelly. 

Mrs. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 

Macaroni Stufato 

Italiayi. 

\ pound macaroni 1 pound lean beef, chopped 

i pint cooking sherry line 

\ pound cheese, grated Spices 

Cook macaroni until tender in boiling water. Put 
the chopped beef in water enough to cover it, with 2 
cloves of garlic, 3 cloves. 2 alspice. 2 tablespoonfuls 
tomato catsup, 1 tablespoonful walnut catsup, 1 table- 
spoonful Worcestershire sauce, salt to taste, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of jelly or sugar. Cook slowly; when done add 
sherry. Put in a baking dish first a layer of the cooked 
macaroni, then a layer of the stew, then one of grated 
cheese, alternating until the dish is filled. Put pieces 
of butter on the top and brown in oven. Any stew left 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



ENTREES 57 



when the dish is tilled may be served as a dressing for 
the dish. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

Macaroni 

Ttirkish Way. 
Break macaroni into pieces, throw it into boihng 
water; boil rapidly for thirty minutes; drain and throw 
into cold water; strain \ pint stewed tomatoes, put it 
over the fire while macaroni is boiling, let it stew until 
reduced one-half. Add 1 tablespoonful of butter and \ 
cup of chopped almonds; let it remain fifteen minutes 
longer. Add 1 teaspoonful of beef extract. Drain 
macaroni, throw it into the tomato, pull it to the back 
of the fire, where it may simmer for ten minutes. Add 
1 teaspoonful of salt, \ teaspoonful of paprica and turn 
into a dish. Pass with a dish of grated Parmesau. By 
permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS. 

Veal and Macaroni 

1^ pounds veal \\ pounds macaroni 

Cook the veal and chop fine, mixing thoroughly with 
macaroni, also cooked and chopped fine. Season well 
with salt, pepper and butter; add the eggs, well beaten. 
Put in a baking dish, and pour over this the broth in 
which the veal was cooked. It must be very moist. 
Bake one-half hour. 

Cold Weather Dish 

Take the largest size bologna sausage (four or five 
inches in diameter), cut in thin slices without skinning. 
Put a piece of butter the size of a large walnut in the 
frying pan. When melted drop in a few slices of the 
sausage and let them crisp as bacon does. They will 
curl into a cup about like half an orange. In a stewpan 



HORSESHOE Soap, Big Cake, je. 



58 GLEVEB COOKING 

put three or four muffin rings and boiling water 
enough to cover nearly to the top of the rings. Into 
each ring break a fresh egg; season with pepper and 
salt. When cooked take out of the ring and lay on the 
slice of prepared sausage. Serve hot on hot plates. 
The sausage "cup" with the egg may be laid on lettuce 
leaves if desired. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Veal or Chicken, as Terrai>m 

1 chicken, or same quantity of veal 

4 eggs yolks, hard-boiled 

\ teaspoonful of mixed mustard, salt, pepper 

^ teaspoonful of cloves, ground 

1 teaspoonful of browned flour 

1 wineglass of wine 

Piece of biitter 

Cut meat in small pieces; make gravy of other in- 
gredients stirred into enough of the water in which the 
meat was cooked; add meat; stir well together and 
serve hot with a little more wine. 

MISS HOPKINS. 

Mock Terrapin 

1 quart of cold diced veal 3 hard boiled eggs 
i pint of stock h pint of cream 

2 tablespoonfulsof butter Ismail slice of onion, 
1 tablespoonful of Hour minced fine 

\ blade of mace Juice of half a small lemon 

1 clove i cup of chopped mush- 
Small bit of cinnamon rooms 

1 tablespoonful of mush- 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato 

room or walnut cat- catsup 

sup 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
Salt, pepper and cayenne 

Put the butter and onion into a sauce pan and cook 
till light brown, add the veal, cut in dice, (raw meat 
may be used, but is not as nice as cold roast), put the 
pan where it is quite hot and let the meat brown, care- 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



ENTBEES 59 



fully stirring, then add the Hour and stir well for a 
moment or two. Pour in the stock, or water will do, (a 
little gravy left from the roast may be added to the 
water). Add to this all ihe seasoning except the lemon 
and wine. Tie the spices in a muslin bag and let sim- 
mer for two hours, covered tightly. At the end of the 
time take out the spices, add the cream, eggs and 
mushrooms chopped fine. Taste for seasoning, let boil 
up hard for a minute, then add the lemon and sherry 
and serve immediately in a very hot dish. Nice for a 
luncheon dish, an entree or patties, and tastes very 
much like terrapin. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Chicken Terrapin 

1 cold roast chicken 1 parboiled sweet bread 

Sauce. 

1 cup rich, hot cream i cup of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Chop the cliicken and sweet bread moderately fine; 
add to the same and heat over hot water fifteen minutes. 
Just before serving add the j'-olks of 2 eggs, well beaten 
and 1 wineglass of sherry. 

Mrs. STROUT, from Mrs. Lincoln. 

Chicken Jelly 

Joint a chicken, put it into a saucepan, with 2 slices 
of onion, a stalk of celery, a couple of slices of carrot, 
a couple of cloves and i bay leaf; cover with hot water 
and cook slozvly till the meat will come from the bones. 
When about half cooked, add salt, pepper and a light 
dash of cayenne. When thoroughly cooked take out 
the meat and set both meat and liquor away to cool. 
Soak 2 tablespoonfuls of gelatine in a little cold water. 
Take every bit of fat off the liquor, and put it into a 
saucepan. Add a sprig of parsley, and if you have no 
celery, a little celery salt. Taste for seasoning and 

HORSESHOE Soap will not shrink your flannels. 



60 CLEVEIi COOKING 

5/«^;/^^r about tifteen or twenty minutes, then add the 
gelatine, and when it is dissolved, a tablespoonful of 
sherry or more to your taste. There should be about 
li pints of the liquor. Take the skin and bones from 
the chicken and pull apart lengthwise in small pieces. 
Put a little of the liquor in a mould; a narrow bread 
tin is good; then a layer of hard-boiled eggs sliced; then 
the chicken laid lengthwise of the tin; then more of the 
liquor and another layer of eggs, and cover all with 
the liquor. If you like, a layer of chopped mushrooms 
may be put through the center of the chicken, making 
two layers of chicken. Set aside to harden. Turn out 
of the mould and cut in thin slices. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Cream Chicken 

1 chicken, 4^ pounds 4 sweetbreads 

1 can of mushrooms 1 quart of cream 

5 spoonfuls of flour or 4 tablespoonfuls of butter 
cracker 

Boil the chicken and sweetbreads, and when cold 
cut up as for salad. Put the cream in a saucepan with 
the butter; add the flour or cracker crumbs; stir until 
well melted, and put the hot cream over, stirring all the 
time until it thickens; season highly with black and red 
pepper. Put all in the baking dish and cover with 
bread crumbs and pieces of butter. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

Blanqiiette ot Chicken 

Will Serve Six or Eight Persons. 

1 quart cooked chicken cut 1 large cup white stock 

in small pieces 1 cup cream 

3 tablesi^oonfuls butter 2 heaping, tablespoonfuls 
Yolks of 4 eggs flour 

1 saltspoonf ul salt \ saltspoonf ul pepper 

Beat the butter in a saucepan; add flour, stirring un- 
til smooth, but not brown; add stock and cook two min- 
utes, then seasoning and cream. As soon as this boils 



ENTHEES r.1 



add chicken and cook ten minutes. Beat the yolks of 
eggs with 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, add to other in- 
gredients and cook about one-half minute. Serve on 
hot dish with rice or potato border, or on toast. 

Mrs. WEBSTER BROWN. 

Cold Venison 

A good way to utilize bits of cold venison is to chop 
them fine, then heat with some of the gravy left from 
dinner or some water and a generous lump of butter, 
season with pepper and salt, then fill some patty pans 
with the venison and cover the top with crust; bake un- 
til the crust is "done brown." 

Mrs. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 

Bread Croquettes 

1 pint bread crumbs, rubbed fine; add to them 1 tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, grated rind of 1 lemon, whites of 
2 eggs, unbeaten; add \ cup chopped English walnuts, 
mix and form into croquettes; dip in Qgg, then in 
crumbs, and fry. Serve with a liquid pudding sauce. 
By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS. 

Turkey Croquettes 

Chop very fine the remnants, freed from fat or bone, 
of a roast or boiled turkey. Heat a piece of butter the 
size of an Qgg\ chop together a little onion and a sprig 
of parsley and add to the butter with a large table- 
spoonful of flour. When well cooked put in a cupful of 
strong stock and seasoning of pepper, salt, a little 
lemon juice and sherry, and the turkey. Set away to 
cool, and when cold mould into small rolls, dip into a 
beaten Qgg, then into cracker crumbs and fry in hot 
lard. Serve heaped around a pile of peas, made very 
hot and seasoned with butter. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 



62 CLEVER COOKING 



Veal Croquettes With String Beans 

Chop 2 pounds of cold roast veal, and 2 sweet- 
breads. Moisten them with a little clear stock and 
bind together with the yolks of 2 eggs. Season with 
salt and pepper and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Roll into cones, dip in beaten egg. then in fine crumbs, 
then in egg and again in crumbs and fry in smoking hot 
lard. Arrange neatly on a dish with small end upright, 
and put around them a border of string beans, wiiich 
have been boiled very tender and nicely seasoned. 

Mrs. HATFIELD. 



Cliestmit Croquettes 

Shell and blanch 1 quart of chestnuts, cover with 
boiling water, boil until tender, drain and sprinkle over 
a teaspoonful of salt. When dry, mash, add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of butter, a saltspoonful of salt and beat until light 
and smooth. Form into croquettes, dip in beaten egg, 
then in crumbs and fry in smoking fat. By permis- 
sion of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS. 



Kidneys 

1 tablespoonful of butter 1 onion 
1 dozen lamb kidneys ^ cup of stock 

1 lemon Salt and pepper 

Mushrooms Sherry 

Worcestershire sauce 

Put the butter in a saucepan and add the onion 

slices, and when brown add the kidneys sliced thin and 

cook five minutes. Dredge with flour, add stock, boil 

up, then mushrooms, sherry, salt, pepper and sauce, 

and serve on toast. 

Mrs. NEUFELDER. 

WEBB'S Ground Apices are perfectly pure. 



ENTBEE8 63 



Steak and Kidney Pudding 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

1 heaping cup chopped suet 1^ cups of flour 

1 level teaspoonful of 2 pounds round steak 

baking powder 2 veal kidneys 

Pepper and salt 1 large onion 

Chop the suet very fine, put in the flour, salt and 
baking powder; then mix to a stiff dough with cold 
water. Roll out, not too thin, line a basin holding 
about two quarts with part of it. Cut the steak into 
pieces about an inch square, rejecting all bones, gristle 
and fat ; have salt and pepper mixed, in the proportion 
of 1 small teaspoonful of pepper to 2 large ones of salt, 
in a small dish. Now dip your pieces of steak and kid- 
ney on one side in the mixed salt and pepper, lay evenly 
on the crust in the bottom of the basin. When the bot- 
tom is covered put a layer of the onion very thinly 
sliced and finish with the seasoned meat, making three 
layers. Wet the edges of the crust, put on the top 
crust, press the edges closely together and leave no 
holes in the top. Wring a cloth out of hot water, flour 
well and tie very tightly over the basin, put in a kettle 
of boiling water and boil for three hours. Serve in the 
dish in which it is cooked. 

The kidneys may be omitted and more steak used in 
place of them. 

In using the kidneys cut out the centers well. 

Mrs. EDMUND BOWDEN. 

Sweetbreads 

In wdiatever manner sw^eetbreads are to be served 
they must first be parboiled and blancheil. The follow- 
ing is a good way to do this: 

As soon as received they should be put into cold 
water, and this should be changed two or thi-ee times, 
if they are bloody, until they are quite white; then put 

HORSESHOE Soap for economy and quality. 



64 CLEVER COOKING 



them in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, add \ tea- 
spoonful of salt, and let them simmer on the back of the 
range for twenty minutes. If to this water you add \ a 
blade of mace, a couple of cloves, a bit of stick cinna- 
mon, ^ a bay leaf and a very slight grating of onion 
they will be much finer flavored in whatever way they 
are prepared. After simmering, drain and throw them 
into icewater and let them stand for an hour. Drain, 
free from fat and membrane, and they are ready to be 
cooked by any of the various methods. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Will Serve Four Persons. 

2 sweetbreads \ cup cream 

6 slices bread 1 tablespoonful butter 

Small teaspoonful flour Pepper and salt 

If milk must be used instead of cream add: 

\ cup milk 1 heaping teaspoonful flour 

1 teaspoonful butter 

Cut the sweetbreads into small pieces, j)ut in a small 
saucepan, pour over them the cream, and when boiling, 
add the flour (previously mixed with a little of the 
cream) ; boil three minutes, being careful not to burn, 
and add the pepper and salt. Have the six slices of 
bread nicely toasted, cut into rounds with a large- sized 
biscuit cutter, butter, dip the lower side in hot salted 
water, arrange on a small platter and heap the sweet- 
breads on them. 

Mrs. EDMUND BOWDEN. 

Sweetbread Patties 

Cut the swet^-tbreads in small dice and mix with an 
equal amount of boiled mushrooms. Make dressing of: 

1 cup sweet cream 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

3 teaspoonfuls of flour 

Boil until it thickens, add sweetbreads and mush- 
rooms and put in patty shells. 

Mrs. JAMES FIELDS. 



ENTREES (io 



Sweetbread Fritters 

Cut some previously parboiled sweetbreads into thin 
slices, scatter over these slices a little lemon juice, 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt and nutmeg-. Dip them 
into batter and fry in hot lard. Drain all grease from 
them, arrange them t)n a napkin on a platter and serve 
garnished with parsley. 

Mrs. HATFIELD. 

Breaded Sweetbreads. 

For Five Per S071S. 

After boiling six sweetbreads, split them, dip in 
beaten q^%. season with salt, roll in cracker crumbs, 
dip in ^^s^ again, fry in hot butter, being careful not to 
scorch. Serve with sliced lemon. 

Mrs. JAMES FIELDS. 

Mock Sweetbreads 

1 pound of uncooked lean veal, cut into half- inch 
cubes, and cooked with 1 slice of onion in boiling salted 
water till tender, then put into cold water to whiten. 
Make 1 cup of white sauce, and season with 1 saltspoon- 
ful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of celery salt and \ saltspoon- 
ful of pepper. Put the veal and \ a cup of mushrooms 
cut into quarters into the sauce; heat over hot water five 
minutes, or till hot: remove from fire, add quickly 1 tea- 
spoonful lemon juice and 1 well beaten Q^^. Serve in- 
side a potato border, or on toast garnished with toast 

points. 

Mrs. LINCOLN'S Boston Cook Book. 

Potato Patties 

Rub cold potatoes through a sieve, add a little clari- 
fied butter and 1 <&^^\ mould them into balls with a little 
flour to keep them smooth; take them in your hands, and 
with your thumbs in the middle, work it round to form 

HORSESHOE Soap for Good Luck. 



CLEVER COOKING 



the shell. Fry them in hot fat and fill with any kind of 
minced meat or fish. Mackerel with parsley sauce is 
very good. 

Mrs. BEATRICE GREEN. 

Baked Mushrooms 

Peel the mushrooms, then cut the tops and upper 

portion of the stems into pieces of uniform size. Place 

in a buttered pan, with salt, pepper and bits of butter. 

and bake until the mushrooms seem tender, or about 

fifteen to twenty minutes. When almost ready to serve 

pour over them enough sweet cream to cover them; let 

all heat up together and serve very hot. In the absence 

of cream, milk may be used, but more butter must then 

be added. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 

Mushroom Entree 

1 cup of mushrooms 

1 cup of chicken, or sweetbreads 

Cut the chicken into dice, or if you use sweetbreads, 
which are even more delicate than chicken, boil and cut 
into small pieces. Cut the mushrooms in halves and 
mix with the meat. Make a white sauce, and season 
with salt, pepper, a dash of onion juice and a hint of 
bayleaf. Stir the mixture into this sauce, and serve 
very hot in small entree dishes. Just before sending to 
the table put a tablespoonf ul of whipped cream on each 
dish. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Croustacles of Asparagrus 

Cup off the tops of rolls or biscuits, scrape out the 
inside and set, with the tops in the oven to crisp. Make 
a white sauce, add the tips of 2 bunches of cooked 
asparagus; fill the rolls with this, put on the tops and 
serve very hot. 

Mrs. FRANK MITCHELL. 
{Mrs. Hinckley's Portland Cooking Class. 



ENTBEES 67 



Fruit Entree 

Take equal quantities of white grapes skinned, small 
pieces of oranges picked with a fork, small pieces of 
bananas; use the juice also. Sweeten to taste. Keep 
several hours in icebox. Serve in glass lemonade 
cups, or bouillon cups, and just before serving add fine 
sherry to taste and 2 or 3 candied cherries to each 
glass. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Lobster Baskets. 

Get fresh lobsters if possible, if not canned will do. 
Cut fresh bread into slices a full inch thick, then cut 
with a large biscuit cutter into round pieces (without 
crust), scoop out of the center of the bread circle, a 
hole half way down to the bottom, drop them into boil- 
ing lard and fry a delicate golden brown. Meanwhile 
prepare a white sauce, beat it and stir in while hot small 
pieces of lobster. Pill the holes in the bread circles 
with this creamed lobster preparation, grate a little of 
the coral over the top and put smaU claws in like 
handles to the baskets, tied at the top with red baby 
ribbon, if you can get fresh lobsters, if not, lay each 
filled basket on a lettuce leaf and serve on an individual 
plate. The baskets and "filling" must be served very 
hot. Add a little sherry to the lobster if desired. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Celeried Oysters 

For 1 dozen large oysters, put 1 teaspoonful of but- 
ter in a stewpan, add 1 tablespoonful of minced celery 
and the oysters; cover and cook till the oysters are 
plump and the edges begin to curl; add the seasoning 
and the sherry; let it boil once, and ^QYYevety hot on 
toast. 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



CLEVER COOKING 



Oyster Kabobs 

Put 1 large tablespoonful of butter in a stewpan, add 
a small onion, chopped very fiyie, a dessert sjjoonful of 
parsley and a dozen mushrooms chopped; let these fry 
one minute; add 1 dessert spoonful (scant) of Hour, stir 
well together; then drop in as many oysters as required, 
which have previously been blanched and bearded. 
Stir and add the beaten yolks of three eggs, one at a 
time, taking care they do not curdle but get just thick 
enough to adhere to the oysters. Take skewers and 
string 6 oysters onto each one, basting with the sauce 
wherever it does not adhere. Let these cool, then roll 
in beaten q^^ and abundant cracker meal, so that it 
looks like a sausage with a skewer run through length- 
wise. Fry. in deep fat, two minutes. Great care must 
be taken to have the fat hot enough, about 380 to 400 de- 
grees, so that the oysters will become a pale brown in 
that time, as they would become hard and tough if 
cooked kmger. Serve on a napkin, allowing oi\e skewer 
tc each person. 

ADELAIDE M. BLACKEELL. 

Oysters a la Poulette. 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a hot saucepan, 
melt and add 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion and 1 of 
parsley, 1 bay leaf and a sprig of thyme. Simmer for 
ten minutes, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Have 
1 cup of stock hot and pour gradually over the ingredi- 
ents in the saucepan; strain into a double boiler; season; 
add 1 cup of hot cream, and stir well until thick. 

Drain 1 pint of oysters, pour cold water over them 
and drain again, then squeeze lemon juice over them 
and cook till plump, and add to the sauce. 

Have ready shells prepared as follows: Cut slices of 
bread an inch and a quarter thick, and with a biscuit 
cutter cut rounds from each slice. With a smaller cut- 
ter cut nearly through the round and remove the cen- 
ter, leaving a cup. Roll thes^e in beaten q^^. then in 

HORSESHOE Soap will not ruin your clothes. 



ENTBEES 69 



bread crumbs and fry in deep fat, to a delicate brown. 
Fill with the prej^ared oysters and serve hot, garnished 
with a sprig of parsley. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 

Olynipia Oysters and Fi-esh Miishroonis 

2 cups of mushrooms (a 1 pint of oysters 

few more or less will 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
not matter) 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

i cup of sherry 

Peel and break into small pieces the mushrooms and 
put them in a stewpan with a little water; cook until 
tender, stirring frequently. Heat the butter and stir 
into it the flour, rubbing smooth, add the cream gradu- 
ally and let it boil up once. Add to this the mushrooms 
and oysters, season with salt and cayenne pepper and 
add the wine. Serve on toast. 

Mrs. a. W. ENGLE. 

Oyster Patties No. 1 

1 can oysters 3 ounces butter 

Yolks of 2 eggs Salt, pepper and celery tops 

Bake some tarts made of Puff Paste; keep warm; 
drain the oysters, put in a stewpan with only enough of 
their own liquor to keep them from burning; add the 
butter laid in pieces among the oysters. To enrich the 
gravy stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and ^ cup of 
sweet cream. Season with pepper, salt and tops of 
celery finely minced. Let stand about five minutes to 
heat thoroughly, then fill the tarts with the oysters, 
and pour gravy over and serve at once. 

L. M. THEDINGA. 

Oyster Patties No. 2 

1 pint solid native oysters 1 large tablespoonful butter 

1 saltsfjoonful salt 1 saltspoonful pepper 

2 small tables^ioonfuls flour 2 small cups milk 

Yolks of 2 eggs 



WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



70 CLEVER COOKING 

Stir your flour, pepper and salt in a little cold milk, 
then stir this into your boiling milk and add butter. 
When this is the consistency of cream, have a quart of 
boiling water and pour your oysters into it, and give 
them a shake or a stir with a spoon; then turn imme- 
diately into a colander, drain well, and stir them into 
your cream. Set over a slow fire for five minutes for 
oysters to finish cooking. Beat the yolks of the 2 eggs 
in a little milk and stir into your cream, then fill your 
shell. This will serve eight persons. 

CHARLES MULCAHEY (Chef Rainier-Grand). 

Chicken Patties 

1 chicken, 4 pounds 

A little parsley, celery, and onion (if you like) 

Cut chicken into dice- shaped pieces, and stir into 
cream sauce as for oyster patties. Use lamb or sweet- 
breads in the same w^ay. 

CHARLES MULCAHEY (Chef Rainier-Grand). 

Devilled Crabs 

Make 1 pint of cream sauce and add: 

i teaspoonful cayenne 1 teaspoonful made mustard 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice 1 tablespoonful wine 
1 pint crab meat 

Make the sauce thick, as the crabs liquify it. 

Mrs. CHARLES SHEPARD. 

Crab Chops No. 1. 

Take the meat from two good-sized crabs. Put in 
sauce pan 1 teacupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of grated 
onion, 1 teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. When 
mixture comes to a boil stir into it 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour rubbed smooth in a little milk. Put in crab, sea- 
son with pepper, salt, a little cayenne pepper, a table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, take from the fire, 
slightly cool, then stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs; add 

HORSESHOE Soap will not draw your hands. 



ENTREES 71 



a small glass of sherry wine; replace on stove and cook 

long enough to set the egg. Turn the mixture on a 

platter to cool. When cold form into shape of chops, 

pointed at one end; roll in egg and bread crumbs; fry in 

boiling fat; stick a claw into the pointed end of each chop, 

after they are cooked. Garnish with parsley and serve 

with tar tare sauce. 

Mrs J. C. HAINES. 



Crab Chops No. 2 

1 quart of crab meat f cup of cream 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 1 teaspoonful of grated 
1 tablespoouf ul of Worces- onion 

tershire sauce 1 teaspoonful of chopped 
1 glass of sherry (small) parsley 

A dash of mace Yolks of 2 eggs 

Salt and pepper A dash of cayenne 

Mix flour and part of the cream, add the onion and 

parsley and cook until tliick, then add the remainder of 

the cream, eggs and other ingredients, the sherry last. 

When cold shape into chops, dip in eggs and bread 

crumbs, fry in /lo^ deep lard, and serve with tartare 

sauce. 

Mrs. NEUFELDER. 



Crab Cutlets 

1 pint milk 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of 

2 tablespoonfuls butter corn starch 

■^ teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful celery salt 

Little bit of cayenne pepper 

Heat the milk; put the butter in a pan. and w^hen it 
commences to bubble, stir in cornstarch slowly and cook 
till f/i/cJt, then stir in the crab meat; pour on a large flat 
dish. When cool, form into cutlets; dip in crumbs, then 
egg, then crumbs, and cook like griddle cakes. Serve 
on a lettuce leaf, with a claw stuck on one side. 

Mrs. TAYLOR (from Mrs. Harrington). 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



72 CLEVER COOKING 

8alinoii Cutlets 

1 pound canned salmon ^ pound crackers, rolled fine 

1 ovmce butter 1 teaspoonful salt 

^ teaspoonful pepper 1 egg 

Pour the oil off the salmon, pick out the bones and 
the skin, beat it; add a few tables poonfuls of crackers, 
then the butter, salt and pepper and mix it all together. 
Form it into cutlet shape; dip into the beaten e.^^ and 
then into the rolled crackers. Fry in very hot lard un- 
til brown, and garnish the dish with parsley. 

L. M. THEDINGA. 

Crab ji la I?oi 

1 can of tomatoes 1 slice of onion 

2 cups of crab meat 1 cup of cream 
1 pinch of salt 1 red pepper 

1 lump of butter size of an Qg,g 

Cook the tomatoes with a pinch of salt, red pepper 
and slice of onion at least two hours. Then strain 
through a colander. Shred the crabs very fine, add the 
cream, then mix the crab with the tomatoes and just let 
it come to a boil; put in the butter but do not cook. 
Serve on small pieces of buttered toast on a warm dish. 

This will serve six people for a luncheon course. 

Mrs. homer F. MORTON. 

Crab Pates a la Creole 

Thh Will Make Nine Pates 

1 large Dungeness crab 1 cup rice 
"1 eggs I cup milk 

4 tablespoonfuls of melted 1 small pinch of cayenne 
butter pepper 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Crack the shells of the crab, remove all of the white 
meat from the claws and body, also the yellow "fat" 
next the back shell, as this fat is the richest portion of 
the crab. Mince fine and set aside until the rice is 



HORSESHOE Soap, Big Cake, 5c, 



ENTREES 



ready. Wash the rice in several waters, then boil in 
double boiler, covering the rice with 1 quart of boiling- 
water. Do not stir at all. but let boil until dry and ten- 
der. Stir the hot rice into the minced crab, add the 
butter, milk and seasoning, then last of all the beaten 
eggs. Drop into well buttered granite or iron gem 
pans, heap up as full as possible, brush over the toj^ 
with beaten egg and bake in a hot oven until of a rich 
golden brown color, or it may be baked in an earthen 

baking dish. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 



Banana or Apricot Fritters 

Will Serve Four Perso7is. 

4 bananas 1 tables poonf ul of flour 

2 eggs 1 teaspoonful of sugar 

4 teaspoonful of melted butter 

Remove the skins from 4 bananas, split them and cut 
in two. Beat the yolks of the eggs well, add 1 large 
teaspoonful of sugar. Mix the flour with 3 large table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and put in the eggs, then add 
the melted butter. Pour the mixture into the stiffly 
beaten w^hites, stirring constantly. Dip the bananas 
separately into the batter, drop them into hot fat and 
fry to a line golden color. Serve at once. Canned 
apricots are even better than fresh ones if well drained. 

Sauce. 

1 small tablespoonful of corn starch 

1 tablespoonful of butter 

il tablespoonfuls of sugar 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract or nutmeg grated 

1^ cups of boiling water 

Mix the corn starch with 2 tablespoonfuls of cold 
water, add the boiling water, the sugar and boil three or 
four minutes, then put in the butter and flavoring, 

Mrs. BOWDEN. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not ruin your clothes. 



CLEVEB COOKING 



Salted Almonds 

Blanch the almonds; put them, with 1 tablespoonful 
of meUed butter aad 1 teaspoonfulof salt to each cup of 
almonds, into a bowl and let stand an hoar or more; 
then put them in a moderate oven in a large pan. and 
stir frequently till a light brow^i. More salt may be 
added as they come from the oven if not salted enough. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



G/iEESE DIS/iES 



Welsh Karebit No. 1 

1.^ pounds of rich American cheese, grated or cut up 

in fine pieces; season with mixed mustard and cayenne 

pepper; melt this together, then add ale or beer to make 

the mixture the consistency of drawn butter. Serve on 

squares of toast. An egg broken into the mixture and 

well stirred through just before serving makes rarebit 

more creamy. 

Mrs. J. C. HAINES. 

Welsh Itarehit No. 2 

I pound rich cream cheese. \ cup lager beer (or milk) 

broken in very small 2 teaspoonfuls mustard 

pieces 1 teaspoonful salt 

A little cayenne 8 slices toast 

Pat cheese and beer together in kettle and melt; 

mix mustard, salt and cayenne together dry, and add; 

cook till it thickens, but does not curdle; pour over 

toast, serve at once. 

Mrs. baker. 



CHEESE DISHES 75 



Genoa Kamaqiiins 

Fit the bottom of a buttered pudding dish, with 
bread, sHced one-half inch thick. Beat 2 eggs, add ^ 
pint of milk and a saltspoonful of salt and pour over the 
bread and let it soak one hour. Then pour off any cus- 
tard which may not be absorbed, and cover with the 
cheese mixture. There should be as much grated 
cheese as would cover the bread an inch thick. Put 
this in a double boiler, add i cup of cream and stir over 
the fire until dissolved; add salt and pepper, pour over 
the bread and bake half an hour or until brown. 

ADELAIDE M. BLACKWELL, Bi-ookmead. 

Cheese Crackers 

Take ordinary square crackers, butter them; cut a 
square piece of the common dairy cheese (fresh) the 
size of the cracker, and place on it. Spread the cheese 
with a httle prepared mustard. Lay them in a dripping 
pan, put in the oven until the butter and cheese melt 
together. Serve ve?y hot with salad. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Cheese Sticks No. 1 

1 pound cheese, grated 1 cup of flour 
1 tablespoonful of butter 1 full saltspoonful of salt 
5 drops of tobasco sauce or pinch of cayenne pepper 

Mix as pie crust with cold water, roll thin, cut in 
strips and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 

Cheese Straws No. 2 

3 heaping tables poonfuls 3 heaping tablespoonfuls of 

sifted flour grated cheese 

1 tablespoonful butter Yolk of 1 egg 

^ saltspoonful salt ^V saltspoonful pepper 

1 tablespoonful milk and a little nutmeg 

Stir cheese and butter in a bowl; add yolks, salt and 
HORSESHOE Soap will not shrink your flannels. 



76 CLEVER COOKING 

pepper; stir well. Pour in milk, then add flour; roll out 

thin and cut in narrow strips and bake in buttered pan 

fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. M. .T. carter. 

Cheese Foiulu No. 1 

IV/// Sei'vc Five Persons. 

\ pound good rich cheese, i teaspoonf ul salt 

grated 2 tablespoonfuls of melted 

1 pinch cayenne pepper butter 

6 eggs 

Place the grated cheese in a bowl, add the salt, 

cayenne, melted butter and beaten yolks, stirring in last 

of all the whites of eggs, which have been beaten to a 

stiff froth. Pour into a buttered dish or into individual 

moulds, bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes and 

serve at once in the dish in which it has been cooked. 

This makes a good entree for dinner or an appetizing 

supper dish. 

Mrs C. p. dam. 



Cheese Fonrtu No. 2 

1 cup bread crumbs 2 small cups fresh milk 
\ pound grated cheese o well beaten eggs 

i small tablespoonful of A pinch of soda dissolved in 
melted butter hot water and stirred 

Pepper and salt into the milk 

Soak the crumbs in the milk and beat into these the 
eggs, the butter, the seasoning, lastly the cheese. Pour 
the mixture into a buttered baking dish, strew dry 
breadcrumbs on top, bake in a quick oven and serve im- 
mediately. 

Mrs. S. W. R. dally. 

Cheese Souttle 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 1 heaping tablespoonful of 
^ cupful of milk flour 

1 cupful of grated cheese 3 eggs 

T teaspoonf ul of salt A speck of cayenne pepper 

Put the butter in a saucepan and when hot add flour 



CUEEtiE DISHES 



and stir until smooth, but not browned; add milk and 

seasoning. Cook two minutes, then add the yolks of 

the eggs well beaten and the cheese. Set away to cool. 

When cold add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Turn 

into a buttered dish and bake from twenty to twenty - 

five minutes. Serve the moment it comes from the 

oven. 

Mrs. H. R. CLISE 



CLEVER COOKING 



''The Lace House" 



''The Foster'' 



Ai-e two makes of KID GLOVES 
that are not surpassed tor looks, 
fit or durability by any Glove 
at any price. We show them in 
all shades, and fit every pair. 



rnn ^i nn^ pair we sen a GLOVE that will 
lIlK Hiil IflBl S^'^^ better general satisfaction 
I Wll wlHygy than any you'll buy elsewhere in 
the Northwest at the same price. Any shade. Each 
pair fitted. 



WE SHOW LARGE ASSORT- 
MENTS AND THE LATEST 

For Street Wear 
For Evening Wear 
For Bicycle Wear 



ALWAYS PAY HEED TO OUR GLOVE SPECIALS, 
IT'S A MONEY- SAVING CHANCE EACH TIME. 



J. A. 
BAILLARGEONScGO. 

SECOND AVE. AND JAMES ST. 



GMAFING DISH 



A true epicure can dine well on one dish, provided it is ex 
cellent of its kind. 



While the use of the chafing dish is said to date from 
the days of Homer, its present popularity is due to a 
revival of the past few years, and although the posses- 
sion of one is a thing to be desired by the "gude wife" 
in her housekeeping, it is equally popular in the bache- 
lor apartments, the artists" quarters in modern Bohe- 
mia, the light housekeeping of flats, the summer outing 
in a houseboat or to put in one's canoe, for a dainty tid- 
bit on shore, after an evening's paddle. The modern 
chafing dish when complete consists of the stand and 
lamp, dish proper, cutlet dish, and hot water pan, and 
while preferable in sterling silver, just as good results 
have been made with a granite iron one, especially if 
to the delights of the palate there is added "A con- 
genial group who make possible the feast of 
reason and flow of soul." Some objection has been 
made on account of the expense of fuel. In the Gorham 
Manufacturing Company's Chafing Dish book they 
claim ten of the recipes were prepared in one of their 
dishes and less than a pint of alcohol used. Wood alco- 
hol we recommend as cheaper and just as good as grain 
alcohol. Except for coffee and tea. which can be made 
over another spirit lamp, almost any light breakfast or 
luncheon can be prepared on a chafing dish, and for late 
suppers for a few\ no other way is as practicable. It 

HORSESHOE Soap for Good Luck. 

(79) 



80 CLEVER (X)OKING 

is also an attractive way of serving an entree at 
dinner. 

Always use a wooden spoon to avoid scratching the 
dish. Most of these recipes are improved by serving 
on fresh toasted bread or crackers. 

Any ordinary cooking done in a saucepan on the 
range can be done in a chafing disli. Ciiops and steals: 
can be daintiI.Y done by using a scant amount of butter. 
Chicken, trout, frogs legs, crab chops, liver and bacon" 
can all be done equally well. The limits of the chafing 
dish include most breakfast and luncheon dishes and 
the majority of entrees. For a quick meal on a chafing 
dish nothing equals one of the many preparations of 
eggs, boiled, poached, fried with bacon, scrambled or in 
one of the many omelettes. 

Scramble 

Put a walnut of butter in chafing dish and drop eggs 
in whole. When they begin to set. stir lightly so when 
cooked the mixture is even white and yellow in appear- 
ance. Some add a tables poonful or two of cream or 
milk. 

Omelette 

Some go so far as to make a fine omelette the test of 
a good cook, but once the knack is learned it is so sim- 
ple and there are so many happy combinations it is 
quite worth the effort to do it well. 

l*laiii Omelette 

Is the foundation for all. The number of eggs de- 
pends on size of the chafing dish as well as the number 
toservo. Five eggs makes agoodomelette. Beatwhites 
and yolks separately, the former very stiff. Give the 
yolks about twelve good beats; add a large tables poon- 
f uls of milk to every two yolks, or if you find after mak- 
ing once, you prefer it more moist, take a small table- 

WEBB'S Ground spices are perfectly pure. 



CHAFING DISH 81 



spoonful of milk to eack egg, add pepper and salt to 
yolks, then put yolks and beaten whites together, mix- 
ing quickly. Have ready the hot chafing dish with a 
walnut of butter sizzling hot and pour in your mixture. 
Do nof stir. This is perhaps the only chafing dish prep- 
aration that requires the use of a knife, but for the 
success of an omelette a broad-bladed knife must be 
slipped about the edges and under the omelette to lift it 
just a little all the time, to keep from burning. When 
it is set. run the knife under one edge and slip on a 
hot platter, deftly folding over one-half of the omelette 
on the other. 

Cheese Omelette 

Is made as above mth the addition of grated cheese 
according to taste. 

Oyster Omelette 

When a plain omelette is prepared to serve, have 
ready a small oyster stew, and before folding the ome- 
lette lift several spoonfuls of oysters into the center of 
the omelette and fold over. 

Peas Omelette 

Peas left from dinner may be heated over and folded 
in plain omelette. Asparagus heads, corn, tomatoes, 
minced ham and other combinations will suggest them- 
selves, and a little ingenuity can develop original ome- 
lettes. 

Sweetbreads 

There are many excellent ways of cooking sweet- 
breads in a chafing dish, but whether cooked at table or 
on the kitchen range, they must first stand in cold water 
an hour or two. then they should be parboiled, cooled, 
and all rough edges, membranes and sinews removed. 
They should then be put in cold water and kept on ice 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



82 CLEVER COOKING 

until wanted for the chafing dish. Calf's brains are 
prepared in the same way and may be cooked in any 
style sweetbreads are. 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Put into the chafing dish a walnut of butter; when it 
melts put in slices of sweetbread or brains, cut not too 
thin nor yet too thick, or if preferred, cut in dice, and 
saute in butter. Open a can of French mushrooms, 
rinse in cold water, cut half of them into quarters, add 
them to sweetbread with 1 pint of cream; season with 
salt and pepper. Dissolve 1 heaping tablespoonf ul of 
fiour. add it and simmer until the sauce is thick and 
smooth. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

Sweetbreads With Peas 

Put into the hot water dish a teaspoonful of butter; 
toss about in the dish the three small sweetbreads which 
have been prepared as in the foregoing recipe. They 
may be larded also. When they have absorbed the butter 
and are in danger of burning, add \ pint of strong 
beef or veal broth or gravy, 1 celery leaf chopped fine, 
salt, pepper and \ teaspoonful of browned fiour. Turn 
the sweetbreads, and when the sauce is reduced one- 
half the dish is ready. 

Open a can of best green peas, or cooked fresh ones 
are better; put them into cutlet dish with 1 tables poon- 
ful of butter, salt and pepper. When the peas are 
warmed through they are done. Serve both together. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

Lobster or Crab a la Newbiirg- 

Take 1 large cup of meat, cut into pieces about one 
inch long. Put an ounce of butter in the pan and add 
meat, tossing it about. Season with salt and pepper to 
suit and add 1 cup of heavy cream sauce. When well 

HORSESHOE Soap will not draw your hands. 



CHAFING DISH 83 



heated add the yolk of 1 raw egg and 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sherry. Serve on small pieces of dry toast. 

RECTOR, Chicago. 

Corned Beef Hash a la Murrey 

The first important step is to select the proper cut 
of corned beef ; the second 15 to be positive that raw 
potatoes only are used, cold boiled potatoes will spoil 
the dish. 

Select a very fine piece of navel corned beef, weigh- 
ing about 3 pounds; boil it half an hour in hot water, 
then take it out, throw the water away and cover the 
meat with tepid water. Simmer on back of the range 
two and a half hours; remove the pot from the range 
and allow the meat to cool in the water. Skim off the 
fat and remove the meat, placing it in ice box until 
next day. Cut into small pieces 2 pounds of the beef ; 
peel, slice and cut into dice enough raw potatoes, which 
when cut up will equal in quantity the cut meat. Peel 
and cut up fine 1 large sour apple; chop these ingredi- 
ents together in a chopping bowl. Cut uj) fine 2 
medium sized onions; also a large sweet Spanish pep- 
per, not the hot variety; now put into a large frying 
pan a scant tables poonful of beef drippings — butter 
will not do. When hot add the onion and fry a delicate 
brown. Next add the pepper, toss about for a few 
moments, then add a gill of strong beef stock, after 
which the other chopped ingredients, with a pint of 
beef stock, or strong broth; mix well, cover and sitnmer 
thirty minutes. Should the moisture evaporate too 
quickly add more of the broth; stir to prevent sticking 
to the pan and also to assist in evaporating the moisture 
finally. Taste for seasoning and put away until next 
day, w^hen it should be warmed in the chafing dish with 
the hot water dish underneath it. 

(Gorham Chafing- Dish Recipes.) 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



84 CLEVER COOKING 



Welsh Rarebit No. 1 

Grate 1 iiound of full-cream mild American cheese, 
no other will give satisfaction. Melt a walnut of butter 
in the cutlet dish; when the butter is melted add the 
cheese, and as it melts, stir with a wooden spoon; add 1 
tablespoon ful of ale every few minutes until four or five 
are used. Cook six minutes; serve on toast. Do not 
make the mistake of putting large pieces of cheese into 
the dish or the rarebit will be lumpy. 

Welsh Karebit No. 2 

1 egg beaten together 5 ounces domestic cheese 

1 level tablespoonf ul butter -k teaspoonful salt 

Pinch of cayenne Level teaspoonful of dry 

5 tables poonfuls milk mustard 

To make a Golden Buck drop a poached egg on each 
piece of toast, covered with rarebit. 

Frieas.see of Oysters 

Butter size of an egg Sherry, wineglassf ul 

Oyster juice, 1 cup Cream. ^ cup 

Good pinch cayenne Yolks of 4 eggs 

Puget Sound oysters, 1 pint Lemon juice 

Put into chafing dish butter the size of an egg: when 

hot add 1 wineglassful of sherry, reduce, add 1 cup of 

oyster juice, h cup of cream, a pinch of cayenne, yolks 

of 4 eggs. When like custard put in 1 pint of strained 

Puget Sound oysters which have been seasoned, and the 

juice of i of a lemon squeezed over them. Cook until 

plump. 

Mrs. HINCKLEY. 

Oysters a la Creiiie 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 1 pint of cream 
Saltspoonful of salt Saltspoonful of pepper 
Grating of nutmeg Bay leaf 

2 tablespoonfuls of bread 1 pint of Cahfornia oysters 
crumbs 

Put the butter in the chafing dish, when hot add 



HORSESHOE Soap, Big Cake, 5c. 



CHAFING DISH 85 



cream, pepper, salt, a grating of nutmeg, and a bay 

leaf. Stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of very stale fine bread 

crumbs. Blanch a pint of Puget Sound oysters by 

pouring boiling water over them, drain, and add to the 

sauce. Cook two minutes. 

Mrs. HINCKLEY. 



Curried Oysters or Clams 

1 small onion 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

1 teaspoonf ul of curry 2 teaspoonfuls of flour 
powder 1 pint of milk 

1 pint of California oysters or 1 dozen of Eastern 

Chop the onion fine. Put butter in the chafing dish 
when hot. add the onion; fry. Mix the curry powder 
with flour and stir into the butter: add 1 pint of hot milk 
gradually, strain the oysters and add, cooking them 
onlj^ until the leaves curl. 

Mrs. HINCKLEY. 

Oyster Toast. 

1 dozen Eastern oysters or 1 teaspoonful of butter 
1 pint of Puget Sound Yolks of 2 eggs 
oysters Gill of cream 

Salt, pepper and nutmeg 

Chop the oysters moderately fine, season with salt. 
pepper, and a trace of nutmeg. Put into the chafing- 
dish a teaspoonful of butter; add the oyster mince. 
Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream, stir it int(^ 
the dish, when the egg is firm. Serve on buttered 

toast. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes. ) 

Oysters Maitre d' Hotel 

^ dozen large oysters 1 teaspoonful of butter 

7 lemon Chopped parsley 

Season with salt and pepper 

Dry the oysters in a napkin. Put butter in chafing 
dish. When it is very hot add the oysters, saute them 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



CLEVEB COOKING 



on one side, then on the other, season with salt and 
pepper; put out light under dish, then squeeze the juice 
of i lemon over the oysters, strew over them a little 
chopped parsley and serve with or without toast. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes. ) 

Shrimps a la Poiilette 

Squeeze over a cup of shrimps a little lemon juice, 
put into chafing- dish 1 tablespoonful of butter; when 
hot, add 1 tablespoonful of flour; pour gradually over 1 
cup of hot cream, season, stir in the yolks of 2 eggs; 
add the shrimps. When hot serve. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

Shrimps a la Creole 

Take a pint of shelled shrimps, fresh or canned, and 
place them in a chafing dish in which you have 2 ounces 
of butter, ^ of a very small onion grated. Braise the 
shrimps in this preparation; add \ a pint of canned to- 
matoes; season very highly with salt and Chili pepper: 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of French peas. Cook for about 
ten minutes and serve. 

CHARLES E. RECTOR, Chicago. 

Cheese Fondu 

1 tablespoonful of butter 1 cup of milk 
1 cup stale bread crumbs \ teaspoonful dry mustard 
Speck of cayenne pepper 1 cup grated Enghsh dairy 

cheese 

Put the butter in the chafing dish; when melted add 
cup of milk, then cup of stale bread crumbs which have 
been seasoned with a + teaspoonful of dry mustard, a 
spec of cayenne, the beaten yolks and the cup of cheese. 
Stir all the time. Just before serving add the well 
beaten whites. Serve on toast. Twice as much cheese 
can be used if preferred without changing the other 
proportions. 

Mrs. HINCKLEY (recommended by Mrs. M. F. Backus). 

HORSESHOE Soap for economy and quality. 



CHAFING DISH 87 



Fresh Mushrooms 

Peel 1 dozen medium-sized mushrooms, remove the 
stems, melt \ a teaspoonful of butter in the cutlet dish, 
and before it gets hot lift the dish off and put it on a 
plate; cover the bottom of the dish with mushrooms; on 
top of each mushroom put a bit of butter the size of a 
marble; season each with a little salt and pepper. Re- 
turn the dish to the flame, and cook from two to three 
minutes according to the size of the mushrooms. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes ) 



S8 



CLEVER COOKING 



PURE [flLK AND CREAlf 

ARE ESSENTIAL TO GOOD HEALTH. 
YOU GET BOTH, HEALTHFUL MILK 
AND CREAM, COMBINED IN 



HIGHLAND BRAND 
EVAPDRATED CREAM 




FIRST AND FOREMOST, 



AWARDED 

Gold Medal by Universal Expo- 
sition, Paris, in 1889. Medal and 
Diploma by World's Columbian 
p]xposition, Chicago, in 1893. Gold 
Medal and Diploma by California 
Midwinter International Expo- 
sition, San Francisco, in 1894. 
Medal and Diploma by Mechanics' 
Institute, San Francisco, in 1887. 
1889, 1893 and 1895. 



HIGHLAND EVAPORATED CREAM is pure, un- 
sweetened milk reduced to cream by evapora- 
tion and sterilized. Undiluted, or slightly diluted 
with water, it is delicious for coffee, tea, cocoa, 
fruits, cereals, etc. 

Diluted with crude milk in proportion of from 
two to four parts of milk to one part of Highland 
Evaporated Cream, an excellent cream is obtained 
for ice cream and other purposes. 

Three parts of water added to two parts of High- 
land Evaporated Cream reduce it to the consis- 
tence of very rich milk. This solution is a healthful 
drink and answers every purpose for which fluid 
milk may be used. 

Leading physicians recommend Highland 
Evaporated Cream as the Ideal Food for Infants. 

FOR SALE BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE. 



SALADS 



We may pick a thousand salads, ei'e we light on such an herb. 



Mayonnaise Xo. 1 

2 eggs (yolks only) 1 teaspoonful dry mustard 

1 teaspoonful sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

- tablespoonfuls vinegar Juice of 1 lemon 

1 pint best olive oil A dash of cayenne 

Rub the inside of a bowl with a slice of onion; beat 
the yolks of the eggs with the dry ingredients and with 
a silver fork beat in the oil, pouring in only a drop or 
two at a time. Always stir one way. and always be sure 
that the last drops of oil are stirred in thorouglily be- 
fore adding more. After the mixture becomes thick 
and ropy the oil may be added in a little larger quan- 
tities, but it is better to be too careful rather than not 
enough so. If the mixture separates it is probably be- 
cause it is not chilled enough or because the oil has been 
added too rapidly. Set the bowl on the ice in the re- 
frigerator for fifteen or twenty minutes, then try again; 
if it still will not mix. add the yolk (very cold) of another 
egg, and perhaps a second one may be added. If it is 
still obstinate, and it is necessary to finish the dressing 
at once, it will be best to set this away and begin over 
again, taking great care that all the materials and uten- 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 

(89) 



00 CLEVEn COOKING 

sils are well chilled, and in warm weather, or a warm 
room, set the bowl in a dish of cracked ice while beating. 
Sometimes two or three hours" chilling will bring the 
old dressing out all right; sometimes a few drops of 
lemon juice or a little unbeaten white of Qgg; will re- 
store consistency. 

After the dressing becomes quite stiff and hard to 
stir, a few drops of lemon or vinegar may be added, 
then more oil and so on till all of the oil has been used. 
It is impossible to give exact quantities of vinegar and 
seasoning for a salad dressing, so much depends upon 
the strength of the materials; so that much must be left 
to the taste. But lemon juice is better than all vinegar, 
and tarragon vinegar is a great improvement upon cider 
vinegar. 

To keep, this dressing should be thick enough to cut 
with a knife, put into a fruit jar and kept in the ice 
chest. The quantity needed may be thinned to the 
proper consistency by adding whipped cream, thick 
sweet cream, or sour cream. The white of an Q^g 
beaten to a stiff froth and added at the last makes it very 
light and delicate. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Mayonnaise No. 2 

3 eggs Saltspoonf ul of ground mus- 
Saltspoonful of salt tard 

\ teaspoonful of Worces- Pinch of caj^enne pepper 
ter shire sauce 

Beat the eggs and slowly drop in pure olive oil until 
it becomes a stiff paste: add the condiments and slowly 
thin with vinegar or lemon juice until the consistency of 
thick cream. 

Mrs. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 



HORSESHOE Soap for Luck. 



SALADS 91 

Cream Salad Dressing 

Mixture for Seasoning. 

8 teaspoonfuls of salt 4 teaspoonfuls of mustard 

1 even teaspoonful of red pepper 

Mix well together and place in a tin or glass can for 
future use. 

Dressing. 

To 5 tablespoonfuls of boiling vinegar add the well 
beaten yolks of 5 eggs, piece of butter size of an Q^^. 
and boil until it thickens, then remove from the stove 
and beat until cool; add 1 teaspoonful of the mixture to 
this and the juice of 1 lemon. Beat \ pint of cream stiff 
and stir into the paste when ready to serve. 

Mrs. CHARLES STIMSON. 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing 

5 tablespoonfuls of vinegar Yolks of 5 eggs 

\ cup of butter or salad oil 1 teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of pepper 1 tablespoonful of sugar 

1 teaspoonful of prepared 1 cup of sour cream 
mustard 

Heat vinegar to boiling point and pour gradualh' 
into beaten yolks, stir until thick, then add butter 
gradually until all is dissolved, and lastly other ingre- 
dients. 

C. HOWELL KIRBY. 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

4 eggs \ teaspoonfulof red pepper 

1 teaspoonful of drj?- mus- 1 cup of best salad oil 

tard \\ teaspoonfuls of sugar 

f cup of vinegar 1^ teaspoonfuls of salt 

Beat the yolks and add the dry ingredients, then 
veiy slowly add the oil. This if rightly done will become 
waxey and thick. Add the vinegar a little at a time; 
then the beaten whites of the eggs. Put into the double 
boiler and stir from the edges and bottom carefully till 
it thickens. 



HORSESHOE Soap will not shrink your flannels. 



92 CLEVEB COOKING 

Lemon juice is much nicer than vinegar, or more 
lemon juice than vinegar. Put in a glass jar, keep in a 
cool place and use as required. 

Mrs. GEO. OSGOOD, Tacoma. 

Lactiola Dressing 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter 1 tablespoonful of flour 

1 tablespoonful of salt 1 ounce of sugar 

1 large teaspoonful of mus- 1 cup of milk 

tard T cup of vinegar 

3 eggs A pinch of cayenne 

Heat the butter in custard kettle; add flour, stirring 
until smooth, being careful not to brown. Add the milk 
and boil up. Beat the eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg and 
sugar together, and add vinegar. Mix with the boiling- 
mixture and stir until it thickens like soft custard. Let 
cool and bottle, and it will keep in a cool place for 
weeks. Yolks of eggs may be used, requiring six yolks 

for this quantitv. 

Mrs. cor win s. shank. 

Salad Dressing- 

2 medium-sized boiled potatoes. While hot pass 

through a sieve; add well beaten yolks of 2 raw eggs, 

mixed mustard and salt to taste, and when well mixed 

and cold, beat in gradually and thoroughly as much oil 

as it will bear until stiff enough to bear up a fork. Put 

in vinegar, using your judgment as to quantity, and a 

dash of red pepper. If the oil does not mix readily, add 

a drop or two of vinegar or cold water. It needs a deal 

of beating and should be quite thick and creamy when 

done. 

Mrs. B. W. baker. 

Salatl Dressing- 
Yolks of 3 eggs 6 tablespoonfuls of oil 
3 tablespoonfuls vinegar Pepper and salt 

Put into a bottle and shake till like cream. 

Mrs. ISAAC H. JENNINGS. 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



SALADS 93 

Fruit Salad Dressing- 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar 7 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 gill sherry 2 tablespoonfuls Madeira 

Mix sugar and cinnamon together, add the wine and 
stir constantly until sugar is dissolved. 
By Permission of 

Mrs. S. T. KORER and ARNOLD & CO. 

Kgg Salad 

1 tablespoonful of butter 3 raw eggs 
1 cup of cream 'i cup of vinegar 

1 teaspoonful of pepper 1 teaspoonful of salt 

2 teaspoonfuls of dry mustard 

Beat the eggs separately, then mix and to them add 
pepper, vinegar, salt and mustard and stir all in a 
saucepan in which is the tablespoonful of butter melted. 
Let it come to a boil, then cool before adding the cream. 
Cut the celery as for chicken salad and cut hard-boiled 
eggs in quarters or slices, having equal quantities of 
celery and eggs. Mix all together and stir in dressing. 

Mrs. R. C. WASHBURN. 

Veal Salad With Nuts 

Two pounds of cold veal, cut small ; 1 head of celery. 

1 pound of nuts (almonds, filberts and English walnuts), 
blanched and halved ; marinate with French dressing, 
and at serving time place on tender lettuce leaves and 
add mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Lobster Salad 

2 raw eggs well beaten 1 teaspoonful of mustard 
1 teaspoonful of salt -k teaspoonful of pepper 

1 tablespoonful of sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 

Remove the coral for the dressing, then chop the 
lobster with 1 bunch of celery. Heat the vinegar, add 
the seasoning except the oil and stir constantly until of 

HORSESHOE Soap for economy and quality. 



94 CLEVER COOKING 



the consistency of thick cream. Add the oil and work 
in gradually the coral which has been rubbed to a paste. 
Pour over the hot mixture and set aside to cool. 

Mrs. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 



Salmon Salad No. 1 

1 quart cooked salmon 2 heads of lettuce 

2 tablespoonf als of lemon 1 tablespoonful of vinegar 

juice 1 teaspoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of capers 1 cup mayonnaise dressing 

Break up the salmon with a fork, add to it the salt, 
pepper, vinegar, lemon juice and capers. Place on ice 
for tw^o hours, and just before serving add the dressing, 
tossing the fish lightly with a silver fork and spoon. 

Mrs. J. S. LOWMAN. 

Salmon Salad No. 2 

J^or Five Persofis. 

1 pound boiled salmon 1 head celery 

^ teaspoonful white pepper h teaspoonful salt 

Break salmon into small pieces, chop celery and 
mix with a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish the dish 
with white leaves of celery and serve. 

Mrs. NINA C. SPENCER. 

Herring Salad 

H herrings Cold roast veal 

Raw apples Pickled red beets 

Cucumber pickles 2 onions 

6 hard boiled eggs 

Soak the 8 herrings for twelve hours, pick out bones 
and skin, cut in small pieces: add the same quantity of 
finely cut cokl roast veal, almost as much of apples and 
red beets, and 1 saucerful of chopped pickles and 2 
chopped onions. Shortly before using cut the whites 
of 6 hard boiled eggs into it. and stir the yolks into the 
milt of the herrings, which has been previously beaten 



WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure; 



SALADS 95 

with vinegar; then add thereto pepper, salt, a little 
mustard and more vinegar. Pour over the rest, and 
when ready to use. ornament with beets, pickles, hard 
boiled eggs (each chopped separately) and some capers. 
Enough olive oil and vinegar to moisten. 

L. M. THEDINGA. 

Asparagus antl Chicken Salad 

Marinate cold boiled asparagus tips in French dress- 
ing and place on top of chicken or veal mayonnaise. 
Garnish with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Macedoiiie Salad 

Vegetables which are ordinarily cooked before serv- 
ing should be cooked before using for salad. Mayon- 
naise should be added 7^5/ before serving, as it liquifies 
as soon as mixed with vegetables. 

1 head celery 1 tablespoonful green peas 

i cauliflower 1 tablespoonful string beans 

1 small beet 

Cut into small pieces, cover with mayonnaise and 

serve at once. Any combination of vegetables may be 

used. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Potato Salad 

Boil 4 good sized potatoes in their jackets, peel, cut 
in dice, put into a colander and marinate with French 
dressing in which has been grated a fewdrops of onion. 
When cold moisten slightly with mayonnaise which has 
had 1 teaspoonful of minced cucumber pickles and one 
of minced capers mixed with it. Put a layer in the 
salad bowl, a thin layer of sliced and salted cucumbers. 
a spoonful or two of mayonnaise on this, then more 
potatoes, etc.. until all are used, putting potatoes last. 
and mayonnaise liberally on top. Garnish with pitted 
olives, cold boiled beets cut in any shape desired, hard- 

. HOESESHOE Soap will not shrink your ;flannels. 



96 CLEVER COOKING 

boiled eggs or capers. It is hardly possible to put too 
many good things into potato salad. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Potato Salad With Apple 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

6 potatoes boiled with skins 2 apples 

on I teaspoonful of celery seed 

4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 

"When the potatoes are thoroughly cold cut in small 
cubes; prepare apples in the same way. Mix with them 
the celery seed and pour over all the vinegar. Let 
stand two or three hours, stirring occasionally. Serve 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 

Apple and Celery Salad 

Select several ripe mealy apples and about half as 
much celery. Make a mayonnaise dressing, using 
lemon juice instead of vinegar. Add to this the well 
beaten white of 1 egg. Peel and slice the apples thin. 
Cut the celery fine. Stir these into the dressing. Gar- 
nish with celery tips and serve. 

Mrs. PETERS. 

Apple Salad No. 1 

1 cup of apples "1 cups of celery 

"1 tablespoonfuls of chopped walnuts 

Cut the apples and celery into one-half inch pieces. 
Chop the nuts very fine. Mix with mayonnaise just be- 
fore serving, and garnish with halves of walnuts. 

Serve very cold. 

Mrs. E. a. stout. 

Apple Salad No. 2 

A good salad for the spring months is made by com- 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



SALADS 97 

billing tart, juicy apples with celery. Cut the celery 
as for chicken salad, peel the apples, cut them as fine as 
the celery and cover with lemon juice to keep from 
turning dark. Cover with a French dressing and serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. WM. H. DE wolf. 

Tomato Jelly Salad 

1 can tomatoes ^ box gelatine 

Pepper and salt 

Put the tomatoes in a saucepan and let them come to 
a boil; season high with pepper and salt, particularly 
the latter. Strain through a fine sieve, add the gela- 
tine (dissolved) and fill a mould. Set in icebox until 
cold. Cut in thin slices and serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise. Cucumbers sliced very thin may be added 
if desired. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Tomato Salad 

1. Select fine large tomatoes that have been in the 
ice-chest and are very cold; remove the skins without 
the use of hot water, arrange on a dish garnished with 
lettuce or parsley, and put a generous spoonful of may- 
onnaise on each tomato. 

Beet Salad 

2. Cut cold boiled beets into dice and mix with an 
equal quantity of celery cut into pieces not too small. 
French or mayonnaise dressing. 

Asparagus Salad 

3. Serve a spoonful of mayonnaise on the plate with 
boiled asparagus. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



HORSESHOE Soap will not draw your hands. 

C. C— 7 



98 CLEVER COOKING 

Cucumber and Sweetbi-eacl Salad 

Sliced cucumbers on sweetbreads with French dress- 
ing. 

Mrs. H. C. henry. 

Fruit Macedoine 

2 bananas, cut in quarters lengthwise and then in 
inch long pieces; 2 oranges, having the pulp separated 
as nearly whole as possible; a small pineapple, shreded; 
a bunch of grapes, seeded, and f cupful of nuts (pecans 
are best, but almonds or w^alnuts may be used, or a 
mixture). Have the fruit thoroughly chilled; moisten 
lightly with French dressing. Serve at once on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise on top. A great many com- 
binations of fruits can be prepared in this way. Or- 
anges alone, or oranges with nuts are good. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Golden Chestnut Salad 

Shell, blanch and boil until tender 1 pint of chest- 
nuts; drain, dust with salt and stand aside to cool; 
hard-boil 2 eggs. At serving time arrange the lettuce 
in a salad bowl, put the chestnuts over, and moisten 
with a nice French dressing, using lemon juice instead 
of vinegar. Hold a small sieve over the bowl, and rub 
the yolks through it. with wiiich cover the salad lightly. 
By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS. 

Celery as a Garnisli Salad 

Take a large cork, as from a wide-mouthed bottle, 
drive in needles head first quite close and regularly. 
Have nice white celery cut about two inches long, draw 
over the needles from the center (nearly) to one end, 
then turn and draw to the other end. making the celery 
into fringes, held together in the center. Throw into 
ice water for a half hour, and it will curl and crisp 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



SALADS 99 

beautifully. This is also a pretty way to prepare celery 

for a salad. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Truffle Salad 

Russian. 

4 dozen truffles 1 wineglass of sherry 

1 tablespoonf ul of oil 1 teaspoonful of chopped 
1 teaspoonful of chopped tarragon 

parsley Salt and pepper 

Chop the truffles and put over the tire with the sherry 
for five minutes. When cold put in a bowl with the other 
ingredients. Mix well and cover with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



Cauliflower Salad 

Boil a cauliflower until tender. Cool. Pick into 
small i^ieces, or serve whole. Cover with mayonnaise. 
Garnish with lettuce and hard-boiled eggs, sliced. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

Orange Salad 

For Roast Game. 

Slice oranges thin; free from seeds; and mix with a 
dressing made of 3 tablespoonf uls of oil, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, salt, cayenne. Delicious. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



A Dainty Way to Serve Chicken Salad 

Cut out the stem end of tomatoes and remove the 
pulp, moisten the inside slightly with French dressing 
and chill thoroughly. At serving time fill with chicken 
mayonnaise (chicken salad, without the celery), put a 
spoonful of mayonnaise on top, garnish with capers or 
chopped pickles and serve on lettuce leaves. 

HORSESHOE Soap, Big Cake, 5c. 



100 CLEVER COOKING 

Tomato Baskets 

Select fine large tomatoes, carefully peel and put on 
ice. Leave a strip of the tomato in the middle to serve 
as the handle of basket. Prepare celery by splitting 
lengthwise the thickness of a straw and cut in half 
inch pieces. Mix with mayonnaise and fill the baskets. 
Mayonnaise of sweetbreads is very nice in these bas- 
kets. 

Oyster Salad 

Drain the liquor from a pint of Sound oysters, pour 
boiling water over them and let them stand until they 
plump. Set away until perfectly cold, then mix with i 
cup of mayonnaise, and serve on crisp lettuce. 

Pecan Salad 

1 cup pecans, shelled | cup celery, cut fine 

Marinate with French dressing; chill well, and ar- 
range on lettuce leaves, and garnish with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



A COLD LUNCH FOR A HOT DAY 



Iced Bouillon 

Halibut (cold boiled) with Mayonnaise Cucumbers 

Olives Radishes Small onions 

Salted Almonds 

Boned Capon, stuffed with Truffled Sausage 

Cold Asparagus Cold Cauliflower 

Served with French Dressing 

Roman Punch 

Whole Tomatoes, filled with Sweetbreads and Celery, 

Served with Cream Dressing 
Peach Ice Cream Cake 

Fruit in Season 
Iced Coffee Maraschino 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



(101) 



102 CLEVER COOKING 



WEGETABLES 



" Nor lacked our table small parade of garden fruits. 

" What, and how great the virtue and the art 
To live on little with a cheerful heart." 



New Potatoes a la Creiue. 

Select new potatoes about the size of apricots. Boil 
in salted water till tender, drain them and when dry 
pour over a little drawn butter sauce. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 

Potato au Gratin 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, stew in milk, season with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle with grated cheese and bread 
crumbs mixed, and brown in oven. 

Mrs. V. A. RITON. 

Potato Puff 

To li cups of seasoned mashed potatoes allow 1 egg 
and beat well. Yolks should be added first, then the 
whites, previously beaten stiff with a pinch of salt in 
them. Place the mixture in a well buttered dish and 
bake until light brown on top. A little minced parsley 
may be added, or a little finely chopped cooked meat of 
any kind or white fish minced fine. Serve hnmediafely 
in the dish in which it is baked. 

ANNA BEACH. 

HORSESHOE Soap for Good Luck. 

(103) 



104 CLEVER COOKING 

Duchesse Potatoes 

5 cold boiled potatoes 5 heaping dessert spoon- 

1 teaspoonf ul of baking fuls of flour 

powder 2 eggs 

A little salt 

Grate potatoes; add, lightly stirring with a fork, the 
other ingredients. Drop with a spoon into boiling 
lard, and fry until balls are a rich brown. 

Mrs. BURNSIDE. 

Potatoes on the Half Shell 

Wash, scrub and bake 3 smooth potatoes. Cut in 
halves lengthwise, and without breaking the skin scoop 
out the potato into a hot bowl. Mash and add 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of hot cream, 1 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to 
taste. Beat the whites of 2 eggs stiff and mix with the 
potato. Fill the skins with the potato mixture, heap- 
ing it lightly on the top. Brown slightly. One table- 
spoonful of grated cheese may be used instead of the 

parsley. 

Mrs. CHARLES SHEPARD. 

Potato Croquettes 

Boil 6 large potatoes, mash fine, season with pep- 
per and salt and 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
Beat separately the yolks of 2 eggs and the white of 1; 
first beat the yolks thoroughly into the potato, then add 
the white, beating all very light. Form into balls and 
roll, first in beaten egg, then into cracker crumbs, and 

fry in hot lard. 

Mrs. J. C. HAINES. 

Scalloped Potatoes No. 1 

Slice raw potatoes fine, put a layer in a baking dish; 
put over them a dust of flour, small pieces of butter, 
salt and pepper and celery salt, and a little milk (cream 

WEBB'S Ground spices are perfectly pure. 



VEGETABLES 105 



is better if you have it) ; fill the dish in this way. Roll 

3 crackers fine, sprinkle over the top, and bake one 

hour in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. J. C. HAINES. 

Scalloped Potatoes No. 3 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice and alternate them 
in a baking dish with layers of cream sauce, to which 
may have been added a little onion juice or parsley. 
Strew bread crumbs and bits of butter on top and bake 
about thirty minutes. 

Mrs. CALVIN VILAS. 

French Fried Potatoes 

Pare the potatoes and cut into three-cornered pieces. 
Fry as doughnuts in boiling lard; when brown add pep- 
per and salt. 

H. VAUGHAN HOWELL. 

Potatoes and Eggs 

Eight or 10 potatoes, 6 hard-boiled eggs. Boil and 
mash potatoes, season with cream, butter and salt. 
Put a layer of this in buttered baking dish. Separate 
yolks from whites; mash the yolks, adding teaspoonful 
of mustard, verjf little cayenne, tablespoonf ul of butter, 
dessert spoonful of vinegar, cream sufficient to soften. 
Mix this with the chopped whites; add a layer of this, 
then the potatoes till the dish is filled, putting bits of 
butter on top. Put in the oven and brown twenty min- 
utes or a half hour. 

Mrs. LOUISE A. THOMPSON. 

Potato Tinibale. 

Pare 8 good sized potatoes, cover them with boiling 
water, let them cook until soft, drain water from them, 
and mash smooth and light. Add 3 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, two of finely chopped parsley; season with pep- 

HORSESHOE Soap will not ruin your clothes. 



106 CLEVEE COOKING 

per, salt and celery salt, and then gradually beat in 1 
teacupful of hot milk, stirring hard; beat the yolks of 3 
eggs and stir into mixture; butter baking dish and 
cover it thickly with fine crumbs; lastly beat the 
whites of the 3 eggs very stiff ; beat well into prepared 
potato; turn all into dish and bake in a moderate oven 
for half an hour. Let the dish stand a few minutes 
after it comes from the oven; then place a heated plat- 
ter over the top and turn them over together. If the 
timbale does not readily come from the dish, loosen 
with a thin bladed knife. 

Mrs. J. C. HAINES. 

Moulded Potato 

Boil until mealy half a dozen large potatoes; mash 
smooth and light; stir into them 2 generous tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, and 2 
tablespoonfiils of finely chopped parsley; season with 
pepper and salt. Beat very light the whites of 3 eggs, 
stir into potato, beating all well together. Have a 
quart tin jelly mould well buttered, pour the mixture 
into it, pressing down well into form; let stand a few 
minutes, then reverse mould on a buttered baking tin. 
Brush the moulded potato over with the beaten yolks 
of the 3 eggs, place in oven and brown lightly. This 
makes a sightly dish placed in the center of hot platter 
and French mutton chops piled around it. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley. 

Mrs. J. C. HAINES. 

Creamed Potatoes au Gratin 

Put in saucepan 1 cup of thin cream, 1 small table- 
spoonful of butter, season with salt and pepper; cut into 
rather fine dice half a dozen cold boiled potatoes. When 
the cream mixture comes to a boil add the potatoes, let 
them boil up once and remove from fire. Place a layer 
of potatoes in a buttered baking dish and scatter over 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



VEGETABLES 107 



them some grated cheese, and then layers of potatoes 
and cheese until the dish is filled. Sprinkle over the 
top a layer of crumbs and bits of butter over all. Put 
dish in oven and bake until crumbs are brown, which 
will be in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Mrs. J. C. HAINES. 

Sweet Potatoes With Sugar 

Boil the potatoes, then slice them. Put them in a 
baking dish, make a syrup by adding water and a little 
butter to the sugar; do not cook the syrup, but pour it 
over the potatoes and bake them in the oven. A very 
little while will suffice for the syrup to permeate the 
potatoes. A crust of sugar will form on the top pota- 
toes. 

Mrs. THOMAS GREEN. 

Spinach With Cream 

Boil spinach and chop fine. In a saucepan over the 

fire put 4 ounces butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, salt, 

nutmeg and ^ pint of cream. Stir well until it boils; 

add spinach, and when hot serve with bread fried in 

butter. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

Boiled Cabbage 

Prepare the cabbage by cutting as for cold slaw and 
allow it to he in cold water at least half an hour before 
cooking. Cover with cold water and cook slowly until 
tender, changing the water three times during the pro- 
cess in order to remove the strong cabbage taste and 
odor. When tender, drain ofl" all water and add \ cup 
of milk (this amount for about half a head of cabbage), 
butter, pepper and salt. Heat the milk through and 
serve at once. Cabbage cooked in this way is as deli- 
cate as cauliflower. 

Mrs. J. D. LOWMAN. 

HORSESHOE Soap for Good Luck. 



108 CLEVEB COOKING 

Frencli Cabbage 

Wash cabbage in salt water, cut in quarters and boil 
twenty minutes. Drain the water from it, but do not 
squeeze. Brown i pound of butter in pan, put in cab- 
bage and a teacup of cream and let siinmer another 
twenty minutes. Good, 

Mrs. charlotte B. CHURCH. 

Winter Succotash 

Boil \ pint of dry lima beans until tender; add 1 can 
of corn, season with butter, salt and pepper and add 1 

cup of cream or milk. 

Mrs. frank beach. 

Creamed Carrots 

Will Serve Five Persons. 
Scrape and wash 6 medium-sized carrots, quarter 
them and boil in salt water until soft. Drain and mash, 
season with salt, pepper, and butter the size of a wal- 
nut; add a cup of rich milk and serve. 

Mrs. JAMES FIELDS. 

Mushrooms on Toast 

For Six Persons. 

Peel and rinse 1 dozen mushrooms, cut in pieces and 
stew in 1 cupful of water until tender; add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls cream or a little butter; season with salt and pep- 
per. Serve on slices of buttered toast. 

Mrs. JAMES FIELDS. 

Salsify or Oyster Plant Patties 

Will Serve Six Pei'sons. 

12 medium-sized salsify 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

roots 1 egg 

4 rolled soda crackers Pepper and salt 

Scrape the salsify and cut crosswise in half inch 
pieces, throwing at once into cold water to keep from 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



VEGETABLES 109 



turning dark; a good deal more than cover with boiling 
water; add 1 teaspoonful salt and boil until tender, 
which will be an hour or longer; mash very fine, put 
in i tablespoonful butter, pepper and a little salt if 
needed, and let cool. In the meantime beat 1 egg lightly, 
put in a /if//e salt and pepper, roll the crackers very 
fine, season with a //^f/e salt and pepper. Take a dessert 
spoon and mould the salsify into little cakes, dip them 
into the egg, handling carefully so as not to break them; 
roll them in the cracker crumbs. Pry a light brown in 
good hot beef diipping, or butter. The patties may be 
prepared some hours before frying. 

Mrs. EDMUND BOWDEN. 



Fricassee of Rice 

2 onions, chopped fine 1 cup rice 

1 teaspoonful butter 1^ cups boiling water 

4 tomatoes 5 green sweet peppers, 

Salt chopped fine 

Boil rice, water and peppers an hour, stirring well; 
put onions, butter and tomatoes in frying pan and fry 
fifteen minutes; add to the cooked mixture, stirring 
well, without breaking the rice. 

Mrs. B. W. baker. 



Rice and Cheese 

Put 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of rice into a saucepan of 
boiling salt and water (use a good deal of water) and 
keep it boiling /mfd twenty minutes. Strain. Butter a 
baking dish, and put in a layer of rice, then bits of but- 
ter, salt and pepper; then a layer of grated cheese. 
Repeat to the top, cover with a layer of bread crumbs 
and pour in milk until you can see it at the top. Bake 
a half hour. This is much more delicate than macaroni 

and cheese. 

Mrs. GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not draw your hands. 



110 CLEVER COOKING 



Baked Onions 

Boil until well done and put whole into a baking 
dish. Pour over a small dishful ^ cup of cream or 
milk, add 3 tablespoonfuls of butter (less if cream is 
used), pepper and salt. Sprinkle bread crumbs over 
the top and bake half an hour. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



Fried Onions 

Will Serve Five Posons. 

Peel 6 large onions, slice, place in pan containing hot 

fat and fry until brown; leaving them uncovered and 

stirring often to prevent burning. Season with salt 

and pepper, 

Mrs. JAMES FIELDS. 



Onion Tart 

This is a very appetizing dish to all onion lovers. 
Place sliced onions in a dish lined with paste, seasoning 
with butter, pepper and salt and baking until the onions 
are tender. 

If Spanish onions are used and a little cream is 

added, dredging each layer with a little flour, it makes 

a delightful accompaniment to baked meats. It must 

be eaten piping hot. 

Mrs. L. H. gray. 



Celery 

Cut tlio tender stalks into inch pieces and boil in 

water and a little salt three-quarters of an hour. The 

white root may be boiled with it. Pour over it a white 

sauce. 

Mrs. M a. KELLOGG. 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



VEGETABLES 111 



Creamed Celery 

2 cups of cut celery 1^ cups of milk 

1 teaspoonful of butter 1 teasj^oonful of flour 
Bread crumbs Salt, cayenne pepper 

Boil the celery not quite tender; add milk, flour, but- 
ter and seasoning; put in layers in a baking dish with 
alternate layers of soft bread crumbs; sprinkle fine, dry 
crumbs on top, with bits of butter. 

Mrs. CALVIN VILAS. 

Catachis 

2 rather small crooked neck 4 medium-sized ripe toma- 

squashes toes 

1 bell-pepper (from which 1 large onion 
seeds have been extracted) 

Chop fine; melt 1 tablespoonful of butter in hot fry- 
ing pan, put in vegetables, season, cover and cook one 
hour, stirring often. Good warmed over. 

Papas Rellenas 

Spani's/i. 

Boil some potatoes, mash smooth, put in salt and 
butter and line your dish with them; cut fine some cold 
roast beef, add some chopped onion, red peppers, thyme 
and parsley. Put in a pan with some lard and fry a 
little; add some soaked bread, and if too dry a little 
water. When nicely fried put in your potato dish. 
Slice some hard boiled eggs over it, cover with mashed 
potato and brown in oven. 

Fried Cucumbers 

Slice cucumbers lengthwise in thin slices after par- 
ing carefully, salt well and place on tilted board to drain 
thirty minutes to an hour; dry on towel, dredge with 
flour seasoned with pepper and fry on hot griddle. 

Mrs. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not shrink your flannels. 



112 CLEVEB COOKmG 

Boiled Ciiciinibers 

6 cucumbers 6 slices of toast 

1 cup of milk 1 tablespoonful of butter 

Pepper and salt 

Pare the cucumbers and slice lengthwise of the 
vegetable into long strips about the size of asparagus. 
Boil about twenty minutes until tender, drain and serve 
on toast. Cover with milk heated to boiling point; sea- 
soned with butter, pepper and salt; if preferred the milk 
may be thickened with a little flour. This tastes very 
much like asparagus on toast and is an excellent substi- 
tute. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 

Stiitted Egg Plant 

Will Serve Four Persons. 

1 Q^^ plant 1 teacup of chopped cold 

1 teacup of bread crumbs roast beef or steak, or 

1^ tablespoonfuls of butter \ pound round steak 

1 teaspoonf ul of cracker cooked and chopped 

dust Pepper and salt 

Buy a good shaped q^^ plant weighing about a 
pound; cut the blossom end so that it will stand up- 
right. Cut the stem end off about two inches from the 
top and peel the piece cut off. Now carefully remove 
the inside of the o,^^ plant leaving the shell about a 
quarter of an inch thick. Stew the q^^ plant in just 
enough water to keep from burning until tender, 
about an hour, stirring often; mash, season with salt 
and pepper and 1 tablespoonful of butter and beat well. 
It will be dark in color. Mix the o.^^ plant, bread 
crumbs and meat thoroughly, put back in the shell, dust 
the cracker crumbs on the top and dot it with the \ 
tablespoonful of butter. Put it in a pan, without water, 
but slightly greased, in a hot oven and bake until the 
top is brown — about twenty minutes. 

Mrs. BOWDEN. 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



VEGETABLES lie 



Corn Doclgrers 

IVzll Serve Five or Six Persons. 

6 ears green corn (grated) 1 pint of milk 

2 eggs Salt 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
powder 

Flour sufficient to make a stiff batter. Drop in hot 
lard and fry as you do doughnuts. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Stew the tomatoes a few minutes, sweeten them; then 
add crumbled crackers, biscuit or light bread. Set the 
dish inside the oven until a crust forms. 

Mrs THOMAS GREEN. 

Stiittecl Tomatoes 

Select firm, large and ripe tomatoes; with a sharp 
knife cut a deep piece from the stem end of each; press 
them between the palms to extract as many of the seeds 
as possible without injury to the shape of the fruit; stuff 
them with any kind of chopped meat- — ham. sausage or 
beef. Place them side b}^ side in a dish well buttered. 
Sift bread crumbs thickly over the top. dot it with bits 
of butter, a teaspoonful in each. Bake in hot oven 
thirty minutes. They should be a light brown when 
properly cooked. 

EMMA r. McLOGAN. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Cut tomatoes in half, sprinkle with flour and a little 
salt. Fry in butter with cut side down. When fried 
brown put into a dish. Put a piece of butter and some 
milk in the frying pan. When it boils pour over the 
tomatoes. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. V. A. RITOxNT. 



HORSESHOE Soap for economy and quality. 

C. C.-8 



114 CLEVEB COOKING 



Creamed Tomatoes 

\ can of tomatoes 

1 tablespoonful of butter 

1 tablespoonful of onion, chopped 

1 teaspoonf ul of parsley, chopped 

1 teaspoonf ul of corn starch 

5 eggs 

Stew tomatoes, butter, onions and parsley together, 
adding corn starch after mixing it with a little of the 
tomato juice. Beat the eggs until very light and add 
to other ingredients, stirring all until thick and creamy. 
Serve on buttered toast. Nice with anchovies. 

Mrs. S. W. R. dally, 

Eseallopped Tomatoes 

Put a layer of sliced tomatoes in the bottom of an 
earthen pudding dish; then a layer of fine bread or 
cracker crumbs. Season each layer with salt, pepper, 
sugar and bits of butter. Make three layers of each, 
having the top one crumbs with plenty of butter. Cover 
and bake one-half hour in a moderate oven or until 
nicely browned. 

Pilaf 

All Egypt ia7i Dish. 

i cupful of rice 1| cupfuls of water 

1 cupful of boiled tomatoes 2 tables poonfuls of butter 

Boil the rice and water until soft, then add 1 cup of 
boiled tomatoes and season with salt, pepper and 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter; mix thoroughly and serve hot. 
This is an especially nice dish for lunch. 

Cauliflower With Cream Dressing 

Pick over a good firm head of cauliflower, soak in 
cold salt water f » r at least half an hour before cooking. 
Cook until tender, then lift into the vegetable dish and 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



VEGETABLES 115 



pour over the following sauce: Rub 1 tables poonful of 

butter and one of flour together. Into this beat the yolk 

of an egg. Dip up some of the cauliflower liquor into 

this until quite thin. Then pour all into the saucepan 

and boil up once and pour over the cauliflower. Some 

add a little lemon juice. 

Mrs. T. M. DAULTON. 

Cauliflower au Gratiii 

Boil a cauliflower until tender. Put in a baking dish 
and pour over it a rich cream dressing. Grate cheese 
on top and bake. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. H. F. WHITNEY. 

Corn Fritters 

1 cup of cold sweet corn 1 beaten egg 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour Pepper and salt 

Chop the corn, stir in the egg and seasoning and flour, 
and, if necessary, add a little milk to make consistency 
of batter. Fry by spoonfuls in butter. When brown, 
turn and brown on the other side. 



116 CLEVER COOKING 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 



I like breakfast time better than any other moment in the day. 
No dust settles on one's mind then, and it presents a clear mirror 
to the rays of things. — Georye Elliott. 



Escalloped Mutton. 

IVit'l Serve Four Persons. 

1 cup of cooked mutton, 1 tablespoonful of butter 

chopped 1 cup of bread crumbs 

1 cup of tomatoes Pepper and salt 

Butter a shallow pudding dish, sprinkle it with a 
part of the crumbs, then the meat, then add the stewed 
seasoned tomatoes, and put the remainder of the crumbs 
on top, using the pepper and salt sparingly on the 
crumbs and tomato. Put a heaping teaspoonful of 
butter, broken in bits on the top and bake twenty min- 
utes or half an hour. 

The mutton should be chopped fine and all stringy 

and very fatty parts picked out. A nice breakfast or 

luncheon dish. 

Mrs. E. a. BOWDEN. 

Hegeree for Breakfast 

One large cupful of rice, boiled till tender and 
drained. The remains of cold fish from dinner picked 
up and freed from bones and skin; 2 hard-boiled eggs 
cut up; a good lump of butter, salt and pepper. Heat 

Daulton-Carle Co., Pioneer Carpet House of Northwest. 

(n7) 



118 CLEVER COOKING 



all together very hot. Heap on a platter and serve 

very hot. 

Mrs. BEATRICE GREEN. 

Ham Patties 

Two cups of cold boiled ham chopped rather fine, 1 
cup of bread crumbs moistened with 1 tablespoonful of 
milk. Mix together with 1 beaten egg, form into oval 
shapes and fry in hot frying pan. 

Mrs. L. H. GRAY. 

English Pasty 

i pound of suet i pound of lard 

1 qual't of flour 

Make a stiff paste, roll thin, and cut into as many 

pieces as you wish. Take one piece and slice potatoes 

small to cover one-half of it; on this put a layer of 

chopped meat, or steak cut in small pieces sliced; on 

this put a layer of onions. Parsley or turnip may be 

used in place of onions. Season to suit taste. Close 

the other half of the paste over these ingredients and 

pinch into a roll. Make small hole in the top and pour 

in a little water; close again with small pieces of paste. 

Bake for one hour. Pork or chicken can be used in 

place of steak. 

Mrs. S. CARKEEK. 



Tomato Toast With Fish 

Cut cold buttered toast in squares or rounds, lay a 

ring of tomatoes on this and some flakes of cold cooked 

codfish on the top. Cover with a plentiful supply of 

parsley sauce, put it in the oven to warm and serve hot. 

The dish is very economical and serves to use up any 

stale bread or bits of fish or sauce. Garnish with 

parsley. 

Mrs. V. A. RITON. 

GERMEA— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



BREAKFAST A ND L UNCHEON 1 1 9 

Hash 

Use equal quantities of chopped meat and fresh 
grated bread; moisten well with milk, stock or gravy; 
season well with salt, pepper, and a little tomato, wal- 
nut or mushroom catsup. Let cook slowly about fifteen 
minutes; add a good lump of butter and serve very hot. 
Half potatoes may be used instead of all bread if de- 
sired. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Equal quantities of cold corned beef, chopped, and 
cold boiled potatoes, chopped (mashed potatoes may be 
used but are not so nice); put into a stew pan, and 
moisten with stock, water or milk; a little left-over 
gravy is a nice addition. Let simmer, season with salt, 
cayenne and butter, and any sauce or catsup that is 
liked. Have an omelette pan very hot, put in a bit of 
butter sufficient to moisten the bottom thoroughly, put 
the hash in and spread evenly. Draw onto the back of 
the stove and let brown without stirring. Fold like an 
omelette, toss onto a hot platter and serve with tartare 
sauce. A few tablespoonfuls of chopped beets make a 
pleasant change. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Minced Ham 

1 slice of bread and 1 pint of milk boiled together; 1 
cup of fried or boiled ham chopped very fine, 1 egg. 
Pour the bread and milk over the ham and egg and beat 
all together. Bake a light brown. 

ANNA BEACH. 

Mock Minced Calf's Head 

Original. 
2 pounds lean veal 1 pound liver 

Boil tender, chop fine, mix and make very moist with 

Daul ton-Carle Co., Pioneer Cai'pet House of Northwest 



120 CLEVER COOKING 



rich drawn butter sauce; season highly with sage, salt 
and pepper. Serve with baked potatoes. 

Mrs. M. H. young. 

Laiicasliire Pie 

Take cold beef, veal or mutton, chop and season as 
for hash; have ready hot mashed potatoes, seasoned as 
if for table. Put in a shallow^ baking dish alternate 
layers of meat and potatoes till the dish is heaping full; 
smooth over top of potatoes and drop bits of butter over 
it; bake until a nice brown. 

Mrs. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 

Chicken Tiiubale.s 

Chop uncooked lean chicken, freed from skin and 
bones, very fine; pound with a potato masher and rub 
through a sieve. There should be a half pint of meat. 
Cook 1 cup of cream, ^ cup of grated bread, and a tiny 
bit of mace for fifteen minutes. Take out the mace, 
and beat and mash the mixture till it is a smooth paste; 
add 3 ounces of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and the 
chopped meat; beat well, and add the stiffly beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Set away to cool. When cold butter 
the timbale moulds and line with the paste. This must 
be done very evenly and great care must be taken that 
there are no thin places. When this is done fill with 
creamed chicken made as follows: 

1 cup of cold diced chicken 

3 tablespoonfuls of mushrooms (chopped), or 

2 tablespoonfuls of mushrooms and 1 of hard- 

boiled eggs (chopped) 
1 dessert spoonful of flour 
I cup of cream 

Mix the flour with a little of the cream, put the re- 
mainder on to cook in the double boiler. When this 
boils add the flour and cook for a minute to thicken the 
flour; add the chicken and the mushrooms, salt and 
pepper to taste. Mix thoroughly and cook about live 

GERMEA— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



BREAKEAST AND LUNCHEON 121 

minutes; take from the fire, grate in a hint of onion, 

and if you use it, a tablespoonful of sherry, in which 

case omit a tablespoonful of cream. Fill the lined 

moulds with this mixture, putting in a little at a time 

that there may be no air bubbles. Fill almost to the 

top and cover with paste, being careful to cover every 

part of the filling and not to heap it, but to have the top 

perfectly level with the edges of the mould. Put the 

moulds into a bain marie, or a deep pan, fill nearly to 

the top of the mould with warm water and bake a half 

hour. The oven should be about right for custards, so 

that the mixture will never bubble. Cover the moulds 

with buttered paper. They may be served on a napkin 

or on a hot dish with cream mushroom, Supreme or 

Bechamel sauce. Nice for luncheons, card parties or 

entrees. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Sweetbread Tiinbales 

These are prepared almost the same as chicken tim- 
bales. substituting sweetbreads for chicken in the fill- 
ing, or part sweetbreads and part breast of chicken. 
Use the same paste for lining the moulds. If you wish 
them very elaborate, after buttering the moulds stick 
slices of mushrooms around the sides and bottom of the 
moulds; then line with the paste very carefully, so as 
not to displace them; hard-boiled eggs chopped, or 
almonds blanched, browned a little and chopped, may 
be used in the same manner. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Scrapple 

8 pounds of fresh pork 4 gallons of water 

1 quart of corn meal Cayenne, black pepper 

Mustard, summer savory Sage, sweet marjoram 

Buckwheat or entire wheat Thyme, salt 

Boil the pork in the water till very tender, then re- 
move and chop fine. Return to the kettle and add sea- 

Daulton-Carle Co., First in styles, First in qualities. 



122 CLEVER COOKING 

soning to taste. When boiling add the cornmeal and let 
it simmer a few minutes, then thicken with the buck- 
wheat or entire wheat. Let it stand on the back of the 
stove for a half hour, taking care that it does not burn, 
then pour into dishes and set away to cool. To serve, 
turn out of dishes, slice thin and fry in hot butter. 

Serve with baked potatoes. 

Mrs. TAYLOR. 



Savory Pyramids 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

f pounds finely chopped meat (previously cooked meat 

may be used) 
3 eggs 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls fine bread crumbs 
3 ounces butter, melted 
1 tablespoonful finely chopped parsley 
1 pinch cayenne, and salt 
1 teaspoonful grated lemon peel (this may be omitted) 

Mix the ingredients, then moisten the whole with 

gravy, cream or milk; stir together, form into small 

pyramids, dip in beaten o^^^. roll in bread crumbs and 

bake on a greased baking tin in a hot oven for about 

half an hour. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 



Codfish 

Pick very fine a small bowl of codfish, put into a 
saucepan and cover with cold water. Let it come to a 
boil and drain. Rub together a tablespoonful of sifted 
flour and one of butter. Return the fish to the pan. 
and add a half pint of cream. When this comes to the 
boiling point, stir in the creamed butter and flour and 
let boil a few minutes. Serve on slices of toast. 

Mrs. JOS. SHIPPEN. 



GERMEA— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 123 



Coclfisli Balls 

1 pint of fish, picked very 2 well beaten eggs 

fine 1 quart of raw potatoes 

1 large tablespoonf ul of A little pepper 
butter 

Put the potatoes and fish into the kettle with cold 
water and cook till potatoes are done. Drain off the 
water; mash till very smooth, add butter, eggs and 
pepper, and beat well. Dro^) by spoonfuls into deep 
fat, boiling hot and cook till brown. 

Mrs. JOS. S IPPEN. 



Mackerel Balls 

Soak a mackerel over night. In the morning pour 
cold water over it and let it come just to the boiling 
point. Shred it carefully, carefully rejecting all bones 
and skin. Add an equal quantity of cold mashed pota- 
toes, 2 well beaten eggs, season with pepper and a few 
drops of lemon juice. Make into small balls, and fry in 
very hot deep fat. Serve very hot on a napkin. 



Aiicliovy Toast 

2 eggs 1 tablespoonful of cream 

Anchovies Minced tongue 

Beat the eggs, add the milk and put into a saucepan. 
Add the anchovies and some minced tongue. Let boil 
up, spread on hot toast and serve immediately. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 



Prune Toast 

Boil prunes until you can remove the pits, sweeten, 
and if desired add a little sherry. Pour over toasted 
bread and serve with cream. 

Daulton-Carle Co., First in styles, First in qualities. 



124 CLEVER COOKING 

Ci'eani Toast 

1 quart milk 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

Whites of 3 eggs 2 even tablespoonfuls flour 

Salt to taste or cornstarch 

Dip the toast into boiling water into which 1 table- 
spoonful of the butter has been dissolved; scald the 
milk, thicken with the flour, and let it simmer until 
cooked. Put in the rest of the butter, salt, and the 
beaten whites of eggs. Boil up once, pour over the 
toast, and set in the oven, closely covered, two or three 
minutes. Serve at once. 

Mrs. CHARLES SHEPARD. 

Wheat Flakes 

For Six People. 

1 pint wheat flakes 1^ pints boiling water 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Put the wheat into the double boiler, add the boiling 
water and salt; stir well; let cook for fifteen minutes. 
Longer cooking will not hurt it. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



EGGS 



Plain Omelette 

The fire should be quite hot. Put a saute pan or 
smooth iron spider on the stove, break the eggs into a 
basin, sprinkle over them pepper and salt, and give them 
twelve vigorous beats with a spoon. Put butter the 
size of an Qgg (this is enough fov Jive eggs) in the heated 

Daulton-Carle Co., Pioneer Carpet House of Northwest. 



EGGS 125 

pan, turn it around so that it will moisten all the bottom 
of the pan. When it is well melted and begins to do/'l. 
pour in the eggs. Holding the handle of the omelette 
pan in the left hand, carefully and lightly with a spoon 
draw up the whitened egg from the bottom, so that all 
the eggs may be equally cooked to a soft creamy sub- 
stance. Now still with the left hand shake the pan for- 
ward and backward, which will disengage the eggs from 
the bottom ; turn with a knife half of one side over the 
other, and allowing it to remain a moment to harden at 
the bottom, gently shaking it all the time, toss it once 
on to a warm platter held in the right hand. If unsuc- 
cessful in the tossing operation, one can lift the omelette 
to the platter with a pancake turner. It should be 
creamy and light in the center and firmer on the out- 
side. A variety of omelettes may be made in the same 
way by adding boiled tongue cut into dice, sliced 
truffles, cooked and sliced kidneys with the gravy 

poured around. 

Mrs. D. C. GARRETT. 



Omelette With Tomatoes 

Just before folding the omelette place in the center 
three or four whole tomatoes boiled and seasoned. 
When the omelette is turned of course the tomatoes 
will be enveloped. Serve with tomato sauce. 

■ Mrs. D. C. GARRETT. 



Omelette 

Crumb 1 slice of bread and soak in hot milk. Beat 

the whites of 4 eggs to a high froth. Beat the bread. 

with all the milk it will adsord, no moie, add beaten yolks 

and a little salt. Put one ounce of butter in frying pan. 

When hot pour in omelette; when set put in the oven 

for five minutes. This will never fall. 

S. E. W. 

JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 



126 CLEVER COOKING 

Quaking- Omelette 

Pour eggs. Y cup of milk, a rounded tablespoonful of 
flour and a teaspoonf ul of salt. Beat together the yolks 
of eggs, flour and salt; add them to milk. Then whip 
whites to a froth and stir into mixture. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of butter into a hot frying pan; turn mixture 
in. In about one minute put the pan into the oven; re- 
main six minutes. Have a hot platter ready and a cup 
of cream sauce well seasoned. Turn the omelette on 
the platter, but do not try to fold it. Pour sauce around 
it. Serve at once; will fall if let stand. 

Mrs. L. H. gray. 

Savory Omelette 

4 eggs 1 tablespoonful of butter 

1 teaspoonf ul of grated 1 teaspoonf ul of chopped 

onion parsley 

1 tablespoonfulof chopped Salt and pepper 

ham 

Melt the butter in /lof omelette pan. Beat the eggs 
lightly, just enough to mix. stir in the other ingredi- 
ents, and pour in the hot pan. As soon as the edges 
begin to set. fold over half, cook one minute longer, turn 
on a hot dish and serve immediately. 

These same ingredients, omitting the eggs, cooked 
with the butter until very hot, and spread on buttered 
toast, make a breakfast or luncheon dish which is ex- 
cellent. 

Mrs. bone. 

Oyster Omelette 

6 eggs, beaten separately 6 tablespoonfuls of flour 
6 tablespoonfuls of cream Oysters 

Chop the oysters fine and sprinkle with flour. Place 
where tliey will keep warm. Beat yolks of eggs, flour 
and cream together, then add well beaten whites of 
eggs. Fry oa a griddle in butter. When omelette is 
firmly set put in some chopped oyster, and double the 
omelette over it. Serve at once. 

Daulton-Carle Co., First in styles, First in qualities. 



EGGS 127 

Fricasseed Eggs 

Boil 6 eggs hard. Remove the shells and slice them. 
Cook 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion, 1 
teaspoonful or more of chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt to taste. Pour this over the eggs and serve hot. 

Mrs. M. H. young. 



Eg-g- Patties 

For four people take four pieces of bread, three 
inches in diameter, three also in height. Make in the 
middle of each a hole two inches deep and one or two 
inches across; fry these toasts in butter. Put them on 
a buttered dish, break a fresh egg in every hole, 
sprinkle over salt and pepper, and about a teaspoonful 
of butter in each egg. Bake five minutes. 

Another way: Butter the gem pan, drop an egg in 
each, salt; take from oven when the whites set. 

Mrs. L. H. gray. 



Golden Rod Pie 

Boil 12 eggs hard, make a w^hite sauce; line a deep 

dish with toast, put a layer of white sauce, then a layer 

of white rings of eggs sliced thin, then some of the 

grated or lightly mashed yolks, repeating until the dish 

is full, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste; a few 

bread crumbs on top. Bake about fifteen minutes, but 

do not let it get brown. 

Mrs. MAURICE McMICKEN. 



Stufted Eggs 

Boil good fresh eggs twenty minutes; when cold re- 
move shells and carefully cut through the middle, re- 
moving the yolks into a dish by themselves. Mash the 
yolks well and add sutticient soft butter, vinegar, pep- 

GERMEA— The Delightf al Breakfast Dish. 



128 CLEVER COOKING 

per and salt to taste quite sharp. Refill the whites 
evenly. For picnics wrap in tissue paper to keep moist. 

Mrs. corwin s. shank. 

Deviled Kggs 

Boil half a dozen eggs hard, remove the shell and cut 

in half lengthwise; take out the yolks and mash them 

fine; add some finely minced tongue, season well with 

salt, pepper and mustard. Mould in balls about the 

size of egg yolks and put one in each half of the whites. 

Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 

Carried Kg^.s 

Boil 3 eggs 20 minutes, then remove shells and cut 
in slices; fry a bit of onion in a little butter and add 1 
teaspoonful of cornstarch mixed with a saltspoonful of 
curry powder; add slowly f cup of milk, season with 
salt and butter to taste, and simmer until the onion is 
soft. Add the eggs and serve when they are thoroughly 

heated. 

Mrs. HATFIELD 

"Egg Nests oil Toast" 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

6 eggs \ teaspoonful salt 

1^ tablespoonfuls butter 6 slices toast 

Separate the eggs and keep the yolks whole by let- 
ting them remain in the half -shell until ready for use; 
beat the whites with the salt to a stiff froth; toast the 
bread and dip the edges in hot water, then butter, and 
heap the whites high on the toast. Make a depression 
in the center of each mound, add a little butter and the 
whole yolk of the egg. Place the nests on a pan in a 
moderate oven and cook for three minutes, or until the 
whites are a light brown. Serve on a warm dish. 

Mrs. MOORE. 

Daulton-Carle Co., leaders in carpet & drapery business 



EGGS 129 

Baked Eg-gs 

Butter small patty pans, line them with fine crumbs, 
drop an egg into each, cover lightly with crumbs which 
have been peppered, salted and moistened with melted 
butter. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



130 



CLEVER COOKING 




WILL COOK IN FIVE MINUTES. 



This delightful and wholesome 
Breakfast Mush is preemi- 
nently endorsed by the prin- 



inDep.olRollgrMllIfx:-, 



Seattle Washington | ^^P^^ "Health Clubs" of the 
United States and Canada, 



and can be prepared in an endless variety of ways. 



THE 'IMPERIAL BRANDS 



OF 



FLOUR 
CEREALS 

Are registered and guaranteed 
absolutely pure. 




BL.E1NIDEI> 

'Amy PATEm 



FOR SALE BY ALL FIRST-CLASS GROCERS 

JOHNSTONE & SPEER, 

SEATTLE, TAGOMA AND PORTLAND. 



BREAD 



■'Here is bread which strengthens men"s hearts. 
And therefore is called The Staff of Life." 

" Tlae bread of life is love: the salt of life is woi-k ; the water 
of life is faith." 



Irish Potato Yeast 

6 medium sized potatoes ^ cup of sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls of salt 1 '"magic yeast" cake 

Boil potatoes in 3 pints of water. When done mash 
in the remaining water, and add sufficient cold water 
to make the consistency of thick cream. When luke- 
warm add sugar, salt and yeast cake. Press out care- 
fully all of the lumps, using the hands in doing so. Set 
in a moderately warm place to rise, then remove to a 
cold place and the yeast will keep sweet until consumed. 
One small teacupful is sufficient for a quart of flour. 

Mrs. W. H. H. green. 

Mary's Bread aiul Kolls 

Put 8 quarts of flour in a pan and make a hollow in 
the middle of it, into which pour a pint of lukewarm 
water in which half a yeast cake has been dissolved. 
Let this stand over night where it will not become 
chilled. In the morning, to i pint of lukewarm water 
and the same of milk add a tablespoonful each of salt, 
sugar and shortening, and stir this into the sponge. 

HORSESHOE Soap, Big Cake, 5c. 

(131) 



132 CLEVER COOKING 

Let it rise for about an hour and a half, then add flour 

until stiff, kneading well. Let it stand again from one 

and a half to two hours or until light; then make into 

loaves. 

For rolls — Save out 1 quart of the bread dough and 

add to it 1 tablespoonful each of sugar, lard and butter. 

Mix well and let it rise again, then make it into rolls. 

This quantity makes three loaves of bread and about 

three dozen rolls. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 

Bread 

3 quarts of sifted flour 1 handful of salt 

1 handful of sugar 2 small potatoes 

1 cake of compressed yeast 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Mash the potatoes in 1 
quart of potato water (taken after boiling potatoes for 
a meal). Dissolve the yeast in a little cold water. 
Pour warm potato water into the flour mixture; add 
yeast: mix stiff and knead thoroughly; cover and let 
rise over night. In the morning knead thoroughly 
again and form into loaves. Place in well greased pans, 
and butter the top of loaves also to make the crust 
moist. Let rise, and bake in an even oven about forty- 
five minutes. When done remove from pans, rub over 
the crust with butter, cover carefully with towels or 
napkins, then wrap well in woolen goods — for instance, 
an old clean small blanket. 

Mrs. CORWIN S. SHANK. 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Two or Three Loaves. 
Take of the sponge set the night before for white 
bread 1 quart. 2 tables poonfuls of molasses and enough 
of the whole wheat flour to make a stiff dough. Let it 
rise, knead down and let rise again. Shape into loaves, 
and when light bake one hour. 

Mrs. lewis H. SULLIVAN. 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



BREAD V6c 



Parker House Rolls 



1 quart of flour 1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 heaped tablespoonful of 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
sugar 1 pint of boiling milk 

i ounce of compressed yeast 

Measure flour in bread bowl, make a well in the mid- 
dle, into which put salt, sugar, butter and hot milk. 
Let stand without stirring until lukewarm, when add the 
yeast dissolved in \ cup of warm water, stir all together 
to make a soft batter, still leaving a little flour around 
the edges, cover closely and set to rise. Wlien very 
light mix in the rest of the flour in the bowl, together 
with enough more to make a soft dough; knead well and 
set to rise again. If there is time after the second 
rising to cut down with a knife a few times the rolls will 
be much more delicate. About an hour before tea. roll 
out with as little flour as possible, to one-half inch 
thickness, cut out with large biscuit cutter, and spread 
with melted butter, fold over and place close together 
in pan. Let them rise until twice their original size. 

Bake in a hot oven. 

Mrs. GEO. NEWLANDS. 

Rolls 

\ cup of yeast 1 tablespoonful of sugar 

\\ cups of scalded sweet 2 eggs 

milk li cups of water 

Salt Flour 

1^ cups of melted butter 

Mix with enough flour to make soft bread dough. 
Let rise three times. Bake in moderately quick oven 
about thirty minutes. 

Mrs. H. R. CLISE. 

Boston Brown Bread 

"The Bostonians, you know, are most cultured 'tis said. 
And it's greatly on account of their Boston brownbread. 
The secret of making, I'm privileged to tell. 
So one cup of corn meal, dear sister, sift well. 

HORSESHOE Soap will not ruin your clothes. 



i;u 



CLEVER COOKING 



Then add to the same one cup of *graham, 

And a cup and a half of white flour. 

Of molasses a cup, and an egg beaten up. 

And one cup of milk that is sour. 

One teaspoon and a half of soda to raise it, 

And one of salt, or none would praise it. 

Stir it up well, and four hours steam it. 

And rest assured, all will deem it 

A greater treat than finest cake 

That one could eat, or cook could bake." 



* A cup of rye tlour in place of the graham makes a darker and 
more moist bread. A half cup of seeded raisins is a great addi- 
tion. 

Mrs. E. a. BOWDEN. 



Brown Bread No. 1 



"2 cups sour milk 
2 cu])S flour 
A- cup corn meal 
Pinch of salt 

Steam four hours. 



I cup New Orleans molasses 
1 cup Graham flour 
^ cup rye flour 
Even teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in boiling water 

Mrs. morgan CARKEEK. 



Brown Breatl No. ti 

2i cups sour milk i cup molasses 

1 heaping teaspoonful soda 2 cups corn meal 

in tablespoonful of boil- 1 cup whole wheat flour 

ing water 1 teaspoonful salt 

Steam three hours and afterwards brown in the oven. 
Mrs. lewis H. SULLIVAN. 



Brown Breatl No. '3 



2 cups corn meal 

1 cup flour 

2 cups sweet milk 
1 teaspoonful soda 

Steam three hours. 



1 cup rye meal 
^ cup molasses 
1 cup sour milk 
1 teaspoonful salt 



Mrs. F. a. buck. 



WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



BEE AD 135 



Mrs. Manning's Recipe for Brown Bread 

f cup corn meal 3 cups Graham tiour 

1 cup molasses 1 cup sour milk 

2 cups sweet milk 2 even teaspoonfuls soda 

A little salt 

Steam three hours. 

Mrs. MARY M. MILLER. 



Graham Bread 

1 cup New Orleans molasses 3 cups sour milk 
t cup butter and lard 1 teaspoonful soda 

Graham flour to make moderately stiff 

Bake in bread tin in moderate oven. 

Mrs. C. H. FAIRBANKS. 

Tea Biscuits 

To 1 quart of flour and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, salted, add 4 tablespoonfuls of lard; thoroughly 
mix, then moisten with sweet milk (using knife and not 
hand or spoon) sufficiently to roll out, but as soft as 
possible. Handle very little. Roll out about one-third 
inch in thickness, cut out, then place a small x:)iece of 
butter on each biscuit, fold over and press down. Bake 

in quick oven. 

Mrs. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 



Virginia Beaten Biscuits 

1 quart of flour 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 heaping tablespoonful of lard 

Sift flour, add salt, and rub in the lard thoroughly 
with the hand; mix with milk or w^ater, or half and half, 
into a ve7y stiff dough. Lay on breadboard and beat 
with rolling-pin until it is thoroughly smooth and pliant. 
When it is beaten sufficiently it will blister. Divide 
into equal parts the size of a small q^^\ wdth the hands 

HORSESHOE Soap for Luck. 



136 CLEVER COOKING 

mould into biscuits, stick through with a fork three 
times, aud bake in an even, hot oven. 

Mrs. W. H. H. green. 

Maryland Biscuit 

1 quart flour 2 scant teaspoonfuls bak- 

2 scant tablespoonfuls cot- ing powder 

tolene Pinch of salt 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder together; rub 

through this the cottolene; add enough sweet milk to 

make a stiff dough, knead until the dough is perfectly 

smooth. Roll out. cut. and prick with fork, and bake a 

light brown. 

Mrs. T. M. DAULTON. 

Kag'iniiflins 

Make a dough as for biscuit, roll one-half inch thick; 
spread with butter, cinnamon and sugar, roll up and cut 
off from the end the size of biscuit. Bake quickly. 

Mrs. HATFIELD. 
Sally Liiiiii 

1^ pounds flour 2 ounces butter 

1 pint new milk 1 teaspoouful salt 

3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls yeast 

1 dessert spoonful sugar 

Warm the milk and butter together over water until 
the latter is melted; beat eggs and pour over the luke- 
warm milk; stir in the flour and add salt and yeast. 
After mixing well put the whole into a well-greased tin 
pan and set to rise all night. Bake an almond brown in 
a quick oven. A delicious southern breakfast dish, 

Mrs. W. H. H. green. 

Jenny Liud Bread 

1 quart flour 2 cups milk 

\ cup sugar 2 eggs 

1 tablespoonful butter 1 teaspoonful soda 

Salt 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar 

Sift the salt. soda, cream tartar and sugar with the 
WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



BREAD 137 

flour twice; add the eggs, well beaten, and the milk, also 

the butter which has been melted. Bake in a buttered 

dripping pan until golden brown; cut in squares and 

serve hot. 

Mrs. S. W. R. dally. 

Blueberry Cake 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

2 large spoonfuls melted 1 cup sweet milk 

butter 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

3 cups of flour der 

2 cups blueberries 

Cut this in squares, serve hot with butter. A fine 
breakfast cake. 

Mrs. M. H. young. 

Blueberry Muffins 

1 cup blueberries | cup butter 

2 eggs 3 cups flour 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1 cup sugar der 

Some prefer less sugar. 

Martha Washington Corn Bread 

Authentic 

1 pint Indian meal 1 gill wheat flour 

1 cup boiled rice 1 q^^ 

1 tablespoonful butter \ teaspoonful salt 

1y pints of milk, or more, until it is a thin batter 

Bake in tin pan greased; serve hot. 

Mount Vernon, Va. 

Southern Corn Bread 

1 cup corn meal (white) 1 cup cold cooked rice or 

2 eggs hominy 

1 cup milk 1 even tablespoonful butter 

Sift a teaspoonful of salt into the meal, then pour 
boiling water over it, scalding it thoroughly. Soften 
the rice or hominy with boiling water and then beat into 

HORSESHOE Soap will not ruin your clothes. 



138 CLE V Eli COOKING 



the meal; add the butter, then half of the milk, next the 

eggs beaten light and the remainder of the milk. The 

mixture should be as thin as for batter cakes. Pour into 

a well buttered pan and place at once in the oven. Bake 

for half an hour. 

Mrs W. a. peters. 

Spoon Corn Bread 

1 cup white corn meal 1 quart milk 

3 eggs well beaten 2 tablespoonf uls of flour, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar rounded 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Heat the milk and gradually stir in the corn meal; 
boil about ten minutes. Take from the fire and let cool 
a little before stirring in the rest of the ingredients. 
Bake thirty-five minutes in a w^ell buttered baking dish. 

Mrs. HELEN M. HUNT. 



Johnny Cake 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup white flour 

1 cup sour cream 2 cups sugar 

2 cups corn meal 2 eggs 

1 teaspoonful soda 

If you have no sour cream use 2 cups sour milk and 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, and a little less meal 

and flour. 

Mrs. GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 



Ijenten Graham Gems 

1 Qgg 2 cups of cold water 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

butter 1 tablespoonful of baking 

1 cup of white flour powder (scant) 

Graham flour enough to make batter. Beat the egg- 
thoroughly, add water, sugar, white flour with baking 
powder mixed in it, the melted butter and graham 

HORSESHOE Soap for economy and quality. 



BREAD ]89 

enough to make like ordinary cake. Drop in buttered 
gem pans and bake in brisk oven. Will make 112 gems. 

NELLIE BEACH. 

Graham Gems 

1 egg 1 teaspoonful of baking 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar powder 

1 cup of milk 1 cup of graham flour 

Pinch of salt 

Stir thoroughl3^ Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 
This amount makes eight gems. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 

Graham Muttius 

1 cup of graham flour 1 cup of wheat flour 

1 Qgg, beaten very light o tablespoonfuls of melted 

2 small teaspoonfuls of butter 

baking powder f cup of milk 

A pinch of salt 

Stir the milk in flour and then the egg and butter. 
Beat hard before putting in pans. 

Mrs. W. F. BROOKES (by Mrs. H. C. Henry). 

Muffins 

2 cups of sour milk 1 egg 

3 tablespoonfuls of melted 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

butter 1 teaspoonful of soda 

Flour enough to make as stiff as soft cake. 

Mrs. R. B. LANGDON (by Mrs. H. C. Henry). 

World's Fair 3Iufflus 

Wi/l A fake About Fifteen. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls Scant ^ cup of butter 

of sugar 1 cup of milk 

\\ cups of flour 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 
2 eggs powder 

Cream the sugar and butter, add the beaten yolks, 
WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



140 CLEVEli COOKING 

and then the milk and flour (sifted with the baking 
powder). Beat well and stir in the beaten whites last 
of all. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 

Kaised Muffins 

2 cups of potato water | cup of yeast 

2 tablesjjoonfuls of lard Flour to make stiff batter 

2 eggs i cup of sugar 

Stir the lard into the potato water while hot. When 
cool add the eggs, sugar, yeast and flour. When light 
bake in gem pans, or muffin rings. 

Mrs. H. R. CLISE. 

English Muffins 

Take a quart of flour (if California flour is used a 
little more will be needed); add a tablespoonful of salt 
and make a dough with 1 pint of lukewarm water, in 
which has been dissolved ^ cake of compressed yeast, 
or i cup of liquid yeast, in which case omit ^ cup of the 
water. Mix and beat very thoroughly for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Let rise till very light, then with 
well floured hands make into balls about as great in 
diameter as ordinary muffin rings. Put these onto the 
bread board and roll down to about one-half inch in 
thickness. Have the cake griddle greased slightly (the 
muffins should be pretty well floured), place the muffins 
on this and put on the back of the range. In a half 
hour they should be very light and spongy. Draw the 
griddle forward and bake; turning over whenever the 
tops begin to round up, so as to keep the cakes flat. It 
will take fifteen or twenty minutes to bake. The muf- 
fins should be about two inches thick and as large as a 
saucer. Tear apart, toast and serve very hot with but- 
ter or syrup. They may be kept a week, toasting 
whenever wanted for use. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



BREAD 141 

Breakfast Gems 

IViVl Make Ofie Dozen. 

'i cup of milk 1 tablespoonful sugar 

Butter size of an egg- 1 cup flour 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 2 eggs 

der Pinch of salt 

Drop into heated and well greased pans and bake 
about fifteen minutes in quick oven. Serve hot. 

Mrs. LATIMER. 

Chocolate Gems 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, adding carefully 1 cup sugar; 
stir in i cup water, H cups flour; beat thoroughly; add 

2 teaspoonfuls of cocoa, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and 2 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Before adding eggs add 

1 teaspoonful baking pow^der. Pour this into greased 
gem pans and bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. 
By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS CO. 

Pop-Overs 

2 eggs 1 cup milk 

1 cup flour i teaspoonful salt 

Beat eggs well, stir in a little of the milk, then a lit- 
tle of the flour, alternating until all is used; add the salt. 
Beat thoroughly just before baking. Bake in a quick 
oven about twenty minutes. The secret of good pop- 
overs is the vigorous beating. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Cream Waffles 

Take 1 pint of thick cream, stir in 1 teaspoonful of 

soda and flour, suflicient to make a thin batter; beat 2 

eggs and stir in. Bake, and butter before sending to 

table. 

Mrs. HATFIELD. 

WEBB'S Extracts are triple strength. Use them. 



142 CLEVER COOKING 



Waffles 

1 pint flour 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
4 teaspoonful salt cler 

3 eggs 1 teaspoonful of butter, 
H cups milk melted 

Mix in order given. Add the beaten yolks of eggs 
to milk, then the melted butter, and whites of eggs last. 

H. VAUGHAN HOWELL. 



Ifice Cakes 

1 cup cold boiled rice 1 pint hot milk 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

3 eggs der 

Stir rice and milk together till smooth, then add salt 

and eggs, well beaten; stir slowly into this enough flour 

to make a thin batter, and fry as you would griddle 

cakes. 

H. VAUGHAN HOWELL. 



]>rar,v'!«i Pancakes 

1 pint sour milk 1 pint {scajit) flour 

1 saltspoonful salt \ teaspoonful soda 

Mix the milk, flor.r and salt the night before using. 
In the morning beat well, and just before cooking, add 
the soda dissolved in a little boiling water. Beat well 
again. An Qgg may be added if desired. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Protile House Griddle Cakes 

(i eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately 

1 (iLiart sour milk 

i! teaspoonfuls soda 

Piece of butter size of an Qgg 

Flour to make a thin batter like rich cream. 



WEBB'S Ground Spices are perfectly pure. 



BBEAD 143 



Buckwheat Cakes 



1 pint of buckwheat 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn meal 

2 tablespoonfuls of wheat flour 
2 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast 

Mix in a stiff batter about 9 o'clock at night; set in a 
warm place to rise; mix with lukewarm water. Next 
morning add^ teaspoonful of soda in a cup of milk; stir 
into the batter thinning it sufficiently to use; salt to taste. 
This will serve four persons. 

Mrs. F. a. buck. 



144 CLEVER COOKING 



.yf6\ rr/zr/ ^arj. .j^ ^ flr^z'ri// S^/Zer^fc 
f/f/f/f- //Of/ ffi re ///'e:ie//f 
rf/ //// ///rz/'r/f/r/r 0/ f//r//' //r////////e/' 

ro 

.Z/f/eir/n//^ </f'/t////7, /////r j/.r/// 

f'//////re// /////////■'('// ////// ///j/r///-j/x 

f/f//// n r/orK 

Wr Syf/:f///r 
jea/rre 



■on' 



a 



FOR FINE WEDDING INVITATIONS ORDER FROM 

METROPOLITAN PRINTING & BINDING CO. 

TOP FLOOR DEXTER MORTON BANK BUILDING, SEATTLE 



U'^. M 'd6. '^M/rAh 



7' rr//tru/irt/ 






. /'ffftf/fl 




CARDS AT THE METROPOLITAN PRINTING AND BINDING COMPANY, DEXTER NORTON BANK BUILDING 



hOUSEHOLD ECONOMY 



"For nothing lovelier can be found in woman than to study 
household good.'' 



No one can entirely solve for someone else, if they 
ever do for themselves, the difficult problem of house- 
hold economy, but when it has passed into a proverb, 
that "A French family can live on what an American 
family throws away," it is time for us to give the subject 
more attention. The economical management of the 
household is not accomplished without "eternal vigi- 
lance" on the part of the mistress, and the woman who 
delegates to a servant duties that belong to the mistress 
only, and who does not personally supervise every de- 
partment of her household, can never hope to be a good 
manager. 

Hoping that they may be found useful, we give the 
following suggestions, for the care of food and a few 
ways of utilizing the "left-overs": 

Muffins left from breakfast may be split into halves 
and toasted for lunch. 

Cold mashed potatoes may be saved for croquettes 
or potato puff. One cupful makes six croquettes. 

Small pieces of plain or puff paste trimmed from 
pies or patties may be used for cheese sticks. 

Fat from stock, suet from chops and steaks should 
be saved, tried out, clarified and strained into the drip- 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatin. 

C. C— 10 (145) 



146 CLEVER COOKING 

ping pail for use in frying. It is preferable to lard. 

Save every scrap of bread for crumbs to use for 
breading croquettes, chops, scollop dishes, etc. 

It is well to have two kinds of crumbs, using the 
white ones for the outside of fried articles, as they give 
a better colpr. To prepare the crumbs dry them slowly 
on the shelf of the range. When dry, I'oll, sift and 
place them in glass preserve jars until wanted. 

When an egg, is opened for the white alone, drop the 
yolk carefully into a cup. cover the cup with a wet cloth. 
and keep it in the ice box until wanted. When whites 
are left over make a small angel cake, or cover any des- 
sert with meringue. 

Oatmeal, hominy, cracked wheat and other cereals 
which are left over can be added next day to the fresh 
supply, for they are improved by long boiling. 

Any of the cereals make good pancakes, or a small 
amount added to the ordinary pancake batter improves 
it. It can also be moulded and used for fried mush. 

Sour milk can be used for cottage cheese, and makes 
good biscuits or pancakes. 

When fruits show signs of deterioration stew them 
at once instead of letting them decay. 

Grate cheese which becomes dry, and use for pies 
or soup; or it can be served with crackers, or bottled 
and kept for future use. 

Lard is hot when a blue smoke rises fiom it. 

To freshen stale crackers put them into a hot oven 
for a few minutes. 

To prevent flour from lumping, add a little salt be- 
fore mixing with milk or water. 

Chop the tough ends of steak very fine, season and 
form them into balls or cakes. 

Everything good too small to utilize in other ways 
should be put into the soup kettle — the French woman's 
stronghold — and should be boiled up. in winter, twice a 
week, and in summer every day. A sx)Oonful of gravy 
or rice, any kind of vegetables, the bones from roasts, 

TRY Sioux Corn Starch for puddings. 



HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY 147 

steaks, chops or poultry, the tough end of a steak, the 
trimming's from roasts, steaks and chops, which will be 
sent with the meat if asked for. all should go into that 
invaluable soup kettle, and will give a stock far richer 
in flavor and more nutritious than if prepared in the 
usual manner. It will, of course, not do for clear soups, 
but for thick soups, or tomato, bean or vegetable soups, 
sauces, minces, scollops, meat pies and the like, it is 
most excellent. 

The coarse stalks and roots of celery make a gcod 
vegetable when cut in pieces and boiled, or they make a 
good cream of celery soup. 

The leaves are valuable in the soup kettle for flavor; 
also are useful for garnishing. 

To Clean Currant.s 

Add one cup of flour to every quart of currants and 
rub them well between the hands. This will free them 
from stems and stones. Then turn them into a colan- 
der and shake until the stems have passed through. 
Now put them in a pan of cold water, thoroughly drain 
and wash a number of times. Spread on boards or flat 
dishes and stand in a warm place to dry. 

To Make a Pa.stiy Bag 

Fold a piece of very strong muslin (one foot square) 
from two opposite corners; fell the edges tightly to- 
gether, thus forming a triangular bag. Cut off the point 
to make an opening large enough to insert a tin pastry 
tube. It is better to have two or three pastry bags, 
each fitting their respective tubes. 

To Use the Pastry Bag 

Put the tin tubes into the bag and tit it into the 
opening. Fill the bag with the mixture, close the top 
of the bag, give it a twist and hold it tightly with the 

GERM F. A— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



148 CLEVER COOKING 

right hand. Put the point of the tube close to the place 
where the mixture is to be spread; press with the left 
hand, and guide the mixture into any shape desired, 
eclaires. lady lingers, etc. 



CLEVER COOKING 149 



150 



CLEVER COOKING 



S THE BEST 
ELLI 
OAP 

MAD 




MANUFACTURED 
BY THE 



HORSESHOE SOAP CO. 

N.Y. 

THE LARGEST AND BEST CAKE 



GOOD SOAP 

ON THE MARKET FOR 5 CENTS 



FOR SALE BY ALL GROCERS 



PASTRY 



"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies. 



Puff Paste 

1 pound of flour 1 pound of butter 

1 teaspoonful of salt 1 yolk of egg 

1 cup of cold water 

Take flour and salt and | pound of butter; rub to- 
gether till real fine, then put the yolk of egg in a cup, 
beat it well and fill the cup with cold water, add to the 
flour and butter, and mix well. Take out on moulding 
board and work smooth. Roll out quite thin; take the 
other half of butter, cut in very thin slices, spread over 
the dough, dust with flour, then fold over from four 
sides, roll out again and fold; and repeat twice more. 
Cut in any shape, either strips or tarts, brush with egg, 

and bake in quick oven. 

L. M. THEDINGA. 



French Chopped Paste 

1 pint of flour 1 cup of butter 

1 teaspoonful of salt i cup of water (almost) 

1 teaspoonful of sugar Yolk of 1 egg 

Juice of 1 lemon (small) 

Put the flour, salt, sugar and butter into a chopping 



Daulton-Carle Co., the One Price Carpet House. 

(151) 



152 CLEVER COOKING 

bowl and chop until the butter is in bits the size of 

small peas. Put the egg into a cup, beat well, add 

lemon and water enough to make a small half cup. 

Continue chopping, adding the water gradually, until 

mixed. No more water than is absolutely necessary 

should be used, the quantity depending somewhat upon 

the flour. Turn out onto the board, roll into a thick 

sheet, roll up and put on the ice if possible, or stand in 

a cool place, for an hour or so; cut from the end and 

roll out as desired. This must either be handled as 

little as possible, or rolled and folded like pulf paste. 

No middle course is possible. Materials, utensils and 

room should be cold. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Mince Meat No. 1 

3 pounds meat after it is 2 pounds suet, chopped fine 

boiled 6 pounds apples, chopped 

4 pounds raisins fine 

3 pounds currants 1 pound citron 
2 pounds sugar 1 quart brandy 

1 quart cider 1 teaspoonf ul mace 

1 teaspoonful allspice 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 teaspoonful cloves 2 nutmegs grated 

Rind of 3 lemons | teacujjful salt 

Sweeten with molasses 

Mrs H C. henry. 

Eugrlisli Mince Meat No. 2 

1 large beef tongue, or 2 2 pounds of raisins, stoned 

small ones, cooked and 3 pounds of currants, 

chopped washed and dried 

4 pounds of apples, chopped 1 pound of suet, chopped 
1\ pounds of sugar fine 

1 pound of almonds, \ pound of candied citron 

blanched and chopped 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon 

1 teaspoonful of cloves 1 teaspoonful of mace 

2 teaspoonf uls of allspice 3 or more large tumblers 

3 or more large tumblers of brandy 

of sherry or Madeira 

Mix spices well with the meat and suet, then add 



JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 



PASTRY 153 

sugar, apples, fruit, etc., and brandy last. Mix all well 
together and put awav in jars for a week before using. 
It should be quite wet with brandy and wine. 

Mrs. a. M. brooks. 

Mince Meat No. 3 

2 pounds of beef from the neck chopped fine when cold 

1 pound of beef suet shredded and chopped fine 

7 pounds of apples, tart ones, pared, cored and chopped 

2 pounds of raisins, seeded and broken in two 
2 pounds of Sultana raisins well washed 

li pounds of currants carefully washed and picked over 

f pound of citron cut in small pieces 

i pound of lemon and orange peel cut fine 

2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon 

2 tablespoonfuls of mace 

1 tablespoonful of cloves 

1 tablespoonful of allspice 

1 tablespoonful of salt 

1 tablespoonful of nutmeg 

2^ pounds of brown sugar 

1 pint of New Orleans molasses 

1 quart of brown sherry 

1 quart of brandy 

Cook all but the liquors about an hour; add them the 
last thing before removing from the fire. Put in deep 
jar, tying over double covers. 

Mrs. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 

English Mince Meat No. 4 

10 apples 2 cups of currants 

2 cups of raisins H cups of sugar 

1 cup of mixed peel 1^ cups of chopped suet 

1^ teaspoouf uls of allspice 1^ teaspoonfuls of ground 
^ teaspoon ful of nutmeg cloves 

8 tablespoonfuls of brandy \ cup of chopped almonds 

Juice of 2 lemons 

Chop suet alone first; then chop all together very 
tine; add spices and brandy and lemon juice last. It is 
much nicer if kept a few weeks before using. Mix well. 

Mrs. M. p. ZINDORF. 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatin. 



154 CLEVER COOKING 



lieiiion Pie No. 1 

6 eggs 2 lemons 

6 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

Make a nice pie crust and bake in a spring-form pie 
plate, if you have one: if not, in a deep pie plate. 
While baking beat the yolks of 6 eggs with 6 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; gradually add the juice of 2 lemons 
and grated rind of one; beat all up together. Put in a 
double boiler and cook until begins to thicken. Re- 
move from the tire, add the beaten whites of 6 eggs, 
stir them in lightly, then pour into your shell. Put 
into the oven until a light brown. 

Mrs. F. a. buck. 

Lemon Pie No. 2 

4 eggs Grated rind and juice of 1 

2 tablespoonfuls of water lemon 

1 cup of sugar 

Bake with two crusts. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 

Lemon Pie No. 3 

1 large lemon 1 cup of milk 

■J cup of sugar 2 eggs 

1 lablespoonful of corn 1 teaspoonful of butter 

starch Pastry for under crust 

Bake under crust. Boil the milk; stir in corn starch 

and the well beaten yolks of the eggs; add the juice and 

grated rind of the lemon. Turn the mixture into the 

shell, and cover with the well beaten whites of the eggs, 

to which has been added a teaspoonful of sugar. 

Brown in the oven. 

Mrs. THOMAS W. PROSCH. 



Whipped Cream Pie 

Make a rich cream pie, and let get very cold. At 
serving time cover thickly with whipped cream, fia- 

Daulton-Carle Co., Pioneer Carpet House of Northwest. 



PASTRY 155 

vored. If you like you can dust the top lightly with 
sifted macaroon crumbs and it will look like a meringue 
browned in the oven. 

Mrs. frank MANLEY, Tacoma, Wash. 

Engiisli Apple Pie 

Very Nice. 

Line the side of a baking dish wdth pastry, leaving 
the bottom of it bare. Invert a small cup in the center of 
the dish and place around it the apple cut in little 
squares. Season with sugar to taste, a little allspice 
and a tablespoonful of sherry. Add a cup of cold water, 
and put on the top crust. Bake until a straw proves 
the apple quite tender. In serving, raise a piece of the 
top crust and slip a knife under the cup. All the juice 
will be under the cup. 

Mary's Apple CiLstard Pie 

1 cup of stewed apples 1 q^^, yolk and white sep- 
i cup of sugar arated 

Flavoring (lemon is good) 

Stew the apples without sugar. Press them through 
a sieve, add beaten yolk and beat the mixture thor- 
oughly; then add sugar and flavoring. Bake crust 
first, then fill with the mixture. Put whites on the top. 

Mrs. winfield r. smith. 

Pumpkin Pie 

2 cups of strained pump- 3 eggs 

kin 3 cups of milk 

1 cup of sugar 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon 

\ nutmeg Pinch of salt 

Steam the pumpkin after cutting it in pieces, then 
strain and while w^arm add the milk, sugar, eggs and 
spices in the order named, having the eggs well beaten. 
Put in pan with under crust only. This quantity will 
make two good deep pies in nine-inch pans. 

Mrs. BOWDEN. 

JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 



1-56 CLEVEE COOKING 



Cocoaniit Pie 

i cup of grated, cocoaiiut 1 pint of sweet milk 
Yolks of 3 eggs Whites of 2 eggs 

Butter size of hickory nut 1 tablespoonful of sugar 
i saltspoonful of salt 

Beat yolks, add sugar, cocoanut and salt, then stir 
in the milk, add butter and bake as custard pie. Put 
whites on the top. 

Mrs. winfield r. smith. 

Pineapple Pie 

1 can of grated pineapple or 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

1 pineapple grated 1 cup of sweet cream 

J cup of sugar Yolks of 3 eggs 

Put in pan lined with rich crust and bake. Beat 
whites with ^ cup of sugar for meringue. 

Mrs. charlotte b. church. 

Delicious Filling' for Pie 

1 cup of raisins, stoned 1 cup of boiling water 

and chopped 1 cup of sugar 

3 teaspoonfuls of corn Juice of 1 lemon 
starch 

Washing-ton Pie 

m// Make Tivo Pies. 
Cake. 

1 large cup of sugar 1 large cup of flour 
3 tablespoonfuls of milk 3 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking Vanilla flavoring 

powder 

FiUiny. 

1 pint of milk k cup of sugar 

1 egg 1 tablespoonful of corn 

^ l^ound of blanched al- starch 

monds Vanilla flavoring 

A dust of salt 

Mix sugar and yolks of eggs together, add milk, 
[JSE Knox's Sparkling Gelatin. 



PASTRY 157 

sifted flour, whites of eggs beaten stiff, vanilla, last of 
all baking powder. Bake in two large jelly tins in 
moderate oven. 

Filling. 

Mix milk, sugar and corn starch together; add egg 
well beaten. Cook in double cooker to the consistency 
of custard. When cool add vanilla and blanched 
almonds chopped line. 

Split open each cake with sharp heated knife and fill 
with the custard. Make a meringue flavored with 
almond. Spread over smoothly, then dot the top with 
small mounds of meringue with an almond in each 
mound. Brown in oven. 

Mrs. a. F. McEVVAN. 



Almond Tarts 

Yolks of 3 eggs i pound of sugar 

i pound of almonds (blanched) 

Beat to a cream the eggs and sugar, adding the 

almonds, which have been blanched and pounded to a 

paste. Bake in tart tins, which have been lined with 

puff paste, ten minutes. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 



Chess Cakes 

IVi// Make One Dozen. 

1 cup of sugar 

\ cup of butter 

1^ cups of raisins, seeded, chopped fine 

1 cup of English walnuts, chopped fine 

1 whole and yolk of 2 eggs 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then add the eggs, 
raisins and nuts. Mix all thoroughly together. Bake 
in patty tins in pie crust. 

Mrs. JOHN ROCKWELL McVAY. 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatin. 



158 CLEVER COOKING 



DESSERTS 



"If you could make a pudding- wi' thinking o' the batter, it "ud 
oe easy getting dinner."" — George Eliot. 



English Plum Pudding No. 1 

2 pounds of raisins 1 pound of currants 

i pound of citron i pound of lemon peel 

i pound of orange peel 1^ pounds of suet 

Ih pounds of sugar 10 eggs 

3 lemons i pint of brandy 

1 pound of almonds 1 pound of bread crumbs 

1 teas poonful of cloves 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon 

1 teaspoonful of mace 1 nutmeg 

^ pound of Hour 

This pudding must be boiled ten hours. 

AlRS. NUTT. 

Eng-lish Plum Pudding No. 2 

1 pound of suet 1 pound of stoned raisins 

1 pound of currants i pound of flour 

f pound of bread crumbs i pound of dark sugar 
8 eggs i pint of milk or water 

2 ounces candied peel i nutmeg 

Cloves and ginger 1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a wineglass of brandy 

Boil five hours or longer. Serve with brandy sauce. 

ADA E. MALTBY. 



JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 

(159) 



160 CLEVEB COOKING 



Plum Pudding No. 3 

1 egg 1 cup of black molasses 

1 cup of suet 1 cup of sweet milk 

2 cups of raisins, stoned 1 cup of currants 

1 teaspoonful of cloves 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon 

3 even cups of flour 1 teaspoonful of soda 

Steam four hours. 

Mrs. E. p. perry. 



Plum Pudding, With Ice Cream, No. 4 

Make the plum pudding as usual and turn out onto 
a flat dish. Pour over it a wineglass of brandy and send 
to the table burning. Have a brick of ice cream frozen 
very hard, and on each slice of the hot pudding lay a 
slice of the cream. Delicious. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 

Lowell Pudding' 

Will Serve Eio;ht Persons. 

4 cups of flour \\ cups of suet, minced 

1 cup of brown sugar fine 

\\ cups of sweet milk 2 heaping cups of fruits 

1 teaspoonful of salt (raisins, currants, figs 

1 teaspoonful of soda and citron minced) 

\ teaspoonful each of mace \ teaspoonful each of cin- 

and nutmeg namon and cloves 
Allspice and ginger 

Mix all well together before adding milk and spice. 
Boil in well buttered mould three hours. 

Mrs. WEBSTER BROWN. 

Christmas Pudding 

Very Nice. 

1 pint and B gills of flour \ pint of sweet milk 

I pint of suet, chopped \ pint of raisins 

\ pint of molasses f teaspoonful of soda 

Mix well together, adding the soda dissolved in a 
GERMEA— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



DESSERTS 161 



little of the milk before puttino^ in all the flour. Steam 
in a mould three hours. Serve with wine sauce. This 
pudding may be made richer by increasing the quantity 
of raisins and adding a little chopped citron. 

Mrs. CALVIN VILAS. 



Black Puclcliug- 

1 pint of flour 1 cup of warm water 

2 cups of molasses or syrup 1 teaspoonf ul of soda 

1 tablespoonful of allspice 1 tablespoonful of cinna- 

1 saltspoonful of cloves mon 

2 cups of currants 1 cup of raisins, slightly 
A small piece of citron. chopped 

chopped 
Steam foui* hours. 

Sauce. 

1 cup of butter ) i i ■, j. 

2 cups of sugar \ ^^^^^^ ^^ ^ ^^^^^ 
2 eggs well beaten 

Steam for half an hour, stirring often. Flavor with 
brandy, sherry or vanilla. Will serve twelve persons. 

Mrs. M. F. backus. 

Suet Pudding: No. 1 

Wt/l Serve Eight PersoJis. 

1 cup of suet 1 cup of molasses 

1 cup of milk 2 cups of flour 

1 cup of raisins 1 cup of bread crumbs 

1 teaspoonful of soda in 1 teaspoonful each of ciu- 

the molasses namon, cloves and all- 

1 teaspoonful of salt spice 

Steam three hours; chop suet fine; add molasses, 
milk, bread crumbs, salt and spices; add flour and the 
raisins; mix well. Put into greased mould and steam. 
Serve with creamy sauce. 

Mrs. lewis H. SULLIVAN. • 



TRY Sioux Corn Starch for puddings. 

c. i-.-u 



162 CLE FEB COOKING 



Suet Pudding No. 2 

3 cups of flour 1 cup of molasses 

1 cup of milk 1 cup of chopped suet 

1 teaspoonf ul of salt 1 teaspoonful of soda 

1 cup of raisins 
Place the sifted flour ia a bowl and add the other 
ingredients, stirring well; add the soda w^et in a little 
of the milk; then the fruit last. Pour all into a covered 
buttered pudding mould and boil two and one-half 
hours. Serve with plum pudding sauce. Candied 
orange and lemon peel, currants and citron may be 
mixed with the raisins. 

Mrs. S. W. R. DALLY. 

Steamed Graham Pudding 

Will Serve Twelve Persons. 

2 cups of Graham flour 1 cup of milk 

1 cup of molasses 1 cup of raisins 

1 Q^^ 1 teaspoonful of soda 

i teaspoonful of cloves \ teaspoonful of cinnamon 

A little nutmeg A pinch of salt 

Put the flour in a basin, then add the other ingredi- 
ents. Mix thoroughly. Flour the raisins. Steam 
three hours. 

Sauce. 

1 cup of sugar \ cup of butter 

1 glass of wine 

Stir well together and boil fifteen minutes in a 

farina kettle. 

Mrs. M. F. backus. 



Graham Pudding 

\ cup of molasses 3 eggs 

\ cup of melted butter i cup of sweet milk 

\ teaspoonful of cinnamon \ teaspoonful of allspice 

i teaspoonful of nutmeg 2 cups of graham flour 

1 teaspoonful of soda in A little salt 
molasses . 

TRY Sioux Corn Starch for puddings. 



DJESSEETS 163 



Steam two hours and a half. Serve with a liquid 
sauce. 

GERTRUDE B. CARPENTER, Cleveland, Ohio. 



Bachelor's Pucldiiig- 

4 ounces grated bread 4 ounces currants 

4 ounces apples 2 ounces sugar 

3 eggs i teaspoonf ul nutmeg 

i teaspoonful lemon essence 

Pare, core and mince the apples very finely, sufficient 
when minced to make four ounces; add to these the cur- 
rants, the grated bread and sugar; whisk the eggs, beat 
these up with the remaining ingredients, and when all 
is well mixed, put in a buttered dish, tie down with a 
cloth and boil for three hours. 

Mrs. O. T. O. NUTT. 



Baked Indian Pudding 

3 pints milk 3 gills molasses 

Butter size of an egg 10 heaping tablespoonf uls 

meal 

Scald the meal with the milk, then stir in the butter 
and molasses. Bake four to five hours. 

Mrs. S. W. CLARK. 



Kentucky Roll 

1 pint flour Butter size of a duck egg 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

der 

Milk enough to make a dough which can be rolled 

like biscuit; cover the sheet of dough with berries or 

any small fruit, and roll like jelly cake. Place in a pan, 

and pour over 1 cup of water and 1 cup of sugar. Bake 

in a moderate oven half an hour and serve with whipped 

cream. 

Mrs. bone. 

GERMEA— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



164 CLEVER COOKING 



Koly Poly PutUling 

1 cup jam 1 cup suet 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
Salt der 

Chop suet fine, mix with flour and baking powder; 
add enough water to make stifi" paste, roll very thin. 
Spread on the jam, roll paste, and tie in floured cloth, 
previously wrung out of very hot water. Tie ends 
securely, leaving room to swell; put in kettle of boiling 
water and boil fast for two hours. The same paste can 
be used with curi-ants or raisins and served with sweet 
sauce, but do not roll the paste. 

Mrs. bone. 



Peacli Cobbler 

Fill a shallow pudding dish with ripe peeled peaches, 
leaving in the pits to increase the flavor; half fill the 
dish with cold water, sweeten to taste and cover with a 
rich pie crust. Bake in a moderate oven and serve 
either hot or cold, with cream. 

Mrs. O. T. O. NUTT. 



Blackberry PiKldingr 

1 egg, well beaten . i cup milk 

1 cup flour 1 heaping teaspoonful bak- 

1 small tablespoonf ul sugar iog powder 
Stewed blackberries 

Fill a dish half full of hot stewed blackberries, 
sweetened: make a batter of the preceding ingredients 
and drop by spoonfuls on top of the berries. Steam for 
twenty minutes, putting a cloth under the lid of the 
steamer. Serve with cream. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 



Daulton-Carle Co., First in styles, First in qualities. 



DESSEBTS 165 



Fig- Pudding' No. 1 

1 cup of molasses 1 pint of figs chopped 

1 cup of suet chopped fine i nutmeg 
1 cup of milk 1 teasj)oonful of cinnamon 

3i cups of flour 1 teaspoonful of soda 

2 eggs 

Steam four hours. 

Mrs. GREGORY. 



Fig Pudding Xo. 2 

i pound of figs ^ pound of bread crumbs 

1 teacup of milk 2^ ounces of sugar 

3 ounces of butter 2 eggs 

Chop the figs fine. Beat the butter, sugar and eggs 

together ; add milk, crumbs and figs. Steam three 

hours. 

Mrs. HATFIELD. 



To Cook Italian Prunes 

There is as much in the preparation of the prunes 
(^<?/i7;r cooking as in the quality of the prunes. When- 
ever this is borne in mind, a nice dish of first class 
prunes is pleasing to the eye and delicious to the taste. 
Soak the prunes for twelve hours i*i water enough to 
cover them. Put them in tliis same water over a slow 
fire to cook, adding a little sugar if not sweet enough 
for 3'our taste. Let them simmer slowly until well 
cooked. This slow cooking will expand them more 
than the water has done, and does not destroy the 
flavor. 

Another way is equally as good. Wash your prunes 
nicely, as in the first process, put in a porcelain-lined 
stew pan or kettle, pour over them enough cold water 
to cover them. Set them on the back of the cooking 
range, which is supposed to have fire in it. and let them 
stay there, heating through slowly, until nearly ready 

JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 



166 CLEVER COOKING 

to serve. At the last moment bring them forward to 

the hot portion of the range and let them boil up 

quickly. Some prefer this method to the first. Slow 

heat and the soaking process, to make the fruit expand, 

brings out all the flavor, and is the secret of disfavor 

or popularity. 

PACIFIC TREE AND VINE. 

Prune Whip 

k cup of best prunes, after they are stewed, drained and 

put through a sieve 
Whites of 5 eggs 
3 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar and prunes 
and beat again. Bake half an hour in a moderately 
quick oven. Serve hot with whipped cream. 

Mrs. J. D. LOWMAN. 

Prune Float 

Boil prunes until they are so tender they will fall to 
pieces. Sweeten them and squeeze through a fine sieve. 
Whip cream until stiff, make a round mound of whipped 
cream about the size of a tart, put a tablespoonful of the 
prune substance in the center and serve cold. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Prune Jelly 

Stew prunes until perfectly tender, and squeeze out 
the juice; add gelatine (dissolved) in the proportion of 
half a box to 3 cups of juice. Sweeten to taste. Very 
nice for invalids and little children. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL -WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Stuffed Prunes 

Wash 2 pounds of nice prunes, cover with cold water 
and soak over night. Next morning drain, saving the 

USE Knox's Sparlking Gelatine. 



JjESSEBTS 167 



water. Remove the stones without spoiling the shape of 
the prunes. Put an almond in each place from which a 
stone was taken; the almonds must be blanched and 
slightly roasted. Add to the water 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla sugar, or a tiny bit of vanilla bean, and a half 
cup of sugar; bring to a boil and skim. Boil two min- 
utes, add prunes; when hot lift carefully and put aside 
to cool. A tablespoonful of soaked gelatine may be 
added when the prunes are hot. This will give a 
creamy, clear sauce. By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS CO. 



Prune Pudding No. 1 

Stew 1 pound of prunes without sugar; drain off the 
juice, remove the pits and chop fine. Beat the whites 
of 4 eggs very stiff, adding gradually 1 cup of sugar, 
beating all the time; stir into the chopped prunes; bake 
twenty minutes. Serve cold with whipped cream, which 
may be flavored with wine. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Prune Pudding No. 2 

i cup full stewed and stoned 1 pint of milk 

prunes f cup sugar 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch 3 eggs 

1 tablespoonful butter 

Let the milk come to a boil, then add cornstarch, 
sugar, eggs, and butter, mixed with a little cold milk; 
chop prunes, put in a buttered dish and pour the mix- 
ture over. Bake twenty minutes and serve wiih whipped 

cream. 

Mrs. C. E. BURNSIDE. 



TRY Sioux Corn Starch for puddings. 



168 CLEVER COOKING 



Date Pudding 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

1 coffee cup brown sugar 1 coffee cup suet, minced 

1 coffee cup fine bread tine 

crumbs I pounds dates, stoned and 

3 eggs chopped 

\ teaspoonful salt ^ glass brandy, good measure 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 

Steam in buttered mould two hours. This needs no 
wetting but the eggs and brandy. 

Mrs. WEBSTER BROWN. 

Batter Fruit Pudding- 

1 cup fruit 1 cup sugar 

1 Q.^^ 2 tablespoonf uls melted but- 

1 cup sweet milk ter 

2 cups flour ?> teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
A little grated nutmeg der 

Stir the butter, sugar and q^^ together, add the 
milk, baking powder in the flour, and lastly the fruit 
dredged with flour. Any sort of acid fruit, fresh or 
preserved, may be used, as plnms or peaches. Bake 
about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven and serve 
with 

1 cup sugar 

\ cup butter, rubbed to a cream 

White of 1 Q^%, beaten light 

Just before serving beat in 1 cup of the fruit juice, 

heated. 

Mrs. a. W. ENGLE 

Chocolate Pudding 

Scald 1 quart milk Grate 4 tablespoonf uls of 

Beat the yolks of 6 eggs chocolate 

5 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful cornstarch 

Add to milk, bake half an hour, cool and frost with 
chocolate. Frosting made as follows: 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar 4 tablespoonfuls chocolate 

White of 1 egg 



GERMEA— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



DUSSEBTS 169 



Dutcli Pie 

1 pint of flour 1 egg 

1 cup of milk 1 teaspoonful of cream of 
■J teaspoonful of soda tartar 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted A little salt 

butter 

Mix like a batter, pour into a pudding dish and stick 

quartered apples thickly through it. Sprinkle with 

sugar and bake in a moderate oven about half an hour. 

Serve with hot sauce. 

MISS MALTBY. 



Baked Apples 

Pare, core and cut in thin slices the apples, sprinkle 
sugar betw^een each layer and bake. They will be can- 
died and excellent. 

Mrs. a. J. FISKEN. 

Apple Scallop 

Pare and core four good-sized tart apples and cut 
them into slices. Put a layer of bread crumbs into the 
bottom of a pudding dish, then a layer of apples, then a 
layer of chopped English walnuts, then a sprinkling of 
sugar, then crumbs again, and so continue until the 
dish is filled, having the last layer crumbs. Pour over 
half a cup of water, or, if you have it, sweet cider, and 
bake half an hour. Serve /lof, plain or with sugar. 
By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS CO. 

Apple Float 

3 apples, very tart 1 egg 

1 cup of granulated sugar 

Bake the apples with skin on and without water. 
When done scrape out the pulp, mix well with the 
sugar and let get cold. Beat to stitf froth the white of 
1 egg, add to apples and beat for nearly half an hour. 

JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 



170 CLEVEB COOKING 

Serve with soft custard. Looks like a mound of snow, 
and tastes fine. 

Mrs. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 

Apple Dessert 

Wash and core 8 red tart apples and put them in a 
kettle of boiling water. Boil till you can put a straw 
through them. Take off and let stand a few moments, 
then peel off the skin. Make a syrup of 1 cup of sugar, 
a little water, juice of 2 oranges and boil till thick. 
Pour over the apples and let stand till cold before serv- 
ing. 

GERTRUDE CARPENTER, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Apple PiiclcUng 

W?// Serve Four Persons. 

Take four apples, pare and quarter ; put in a small 
pudding dish; sprinkle sugar and nutmeg to taste; 
then pour over the whole the yolks of 2 eggs well 
beaten with 3 tablespoonfuls of water and bake until 
tender. Beat the whites of the 2 eggs to a stiff' froth 
and cover the pudding just before serving, which may 
be either hot or cold. 

Mrs. J. K. BROWN. 



Apple Trifle 

3 pints apples (pared, cored \ pint water 
and quartered) 1 cup sugar 

Grating of nutmeg 3 pints whipped cream 

Place the water and apples in stewpan and boil until 
tender; then add sugar and nutmeg and cook for ten 
minutes. Set away to cool. At serving time put aji- 
ples in deep glass dish and heap the wiiipped cream on 
top. Very delicate and good. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 



TRY Sioux Corn Starch for puddings. 



DESSERTS 171 



Koxbury Puddiug 

Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with strained 
apple sauce, sweeten and season with vanilla. Make a 
custard of the yolks of 5 eggs, 1 pint of milk, and grated 
rind of 1 lemon, and a small pinch of salt. Cook in 
double boiler until smooth, pour over the apple, set in 
a warm oven till the custard hardens slightly, beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add almost a 
pound of powdered sugar. Pour this over the custard 
already baked, and set in the ovea long enough to 
harden. Serve cold. 

Mrs. LOUISE A. THOMPSON. 

Baked Pears 

Put no water into the pan in which the pears are 
baked, unless the oven is very hot. Make a syrup of 
sugar and water and pour over the pears while they are 
hot. Serve with cream. 

Mrs. C. E. SHEPARD. 

Walled Peaches 

Cut off the top of a loaf of stale sponge cake, scoop 
out the inside, leaving enough for a substantial wall; 
fill with canned peaches, sprinkle with pulverized sugar, 
and heap with whipped cream. 

Mrs. L. H. gray. 

Orange Pudding No. 1 

2 cups bread crumbs soaked in ^ pint milk 

2 oranges, juice and grated rind 

2 eggs, the yolks beaten into the crumbs, the whites 

beaten and put in last 
1 cup of sugar 
A little citron cut in fine strips, and a pinch of salt 

Stir all the ingredients together with 1 pint of milk; 
bake in moderate oven until done, but not watery. 
Serve cold with sweetened whipped cream. 

Mrs. J. C. HAINES. 

TRY Sioux Corn Starch for puddings. 



172 GLEVEB COOKING 



Orauge PiKltling No. 2 

1 cup of stale bread crumbs l\ cups of milk 

2 e^^s, yolks and whites Grated rind of 1 and juice 
i cuj) of sugar of 2 small oranges 

Soak the crumbs in the milk until soft and beat to a 
pulp. Mix with this the orange rind and juice, the 
beaten yolks and sugar, and lastly the whites whipped 
very stiff. Bake in a pudding dish, or in custard cups 
set in a pan of hot w^ater, in a moderate oven, about fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. Serve with 

Golden Sauce. 

1 cup of powdered sugar i cup of cream 
4 tablespoonfuls of wine i cup of butter 
Yolks of 2 eo-gs 

Cream the butter and sugar and add. one at a time, 
the unbeaten yolks; beat until very light; then add the 
wine and cream, a little at a time and alternating them, 
beating constantly. When all are mixed, place the bowi 
in a pan of hot water over the fire and stir just three 
minutes; it will curdle if left too long. Use cold. Va- 
nilla, lemon or orauge juice may be used instead of the 

wine. 

Mrs. HELEN M. HUNT. 



Raisin Puffs 

2 eggs ^ cup of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 1 cup of sweet milk 

1 cup of seeded raisins, 2 cups of Hour 

chopped fine and 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 

floured powder 

Steam in cups one hour, and serve with lemon sauce. 

ANNA BEACH. 



Snow Balls 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs light, then add gradually 1 
cup of sugar, beating all the time. When very light 

JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 



DESSERTS 173 



add 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, 1 cup of flour and beat 
again. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 
quickly to the batter with 1 rounded teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Fill buttered cups tw^o- thirds full and 
steam twenty minutes. Roll in powdered sugar and 
serve at once with hard sauce. By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 



Sponge PiuUling' No. 1 

i cup of sugar 1 tablespoonful of butter 

2 eggs, beaten se^jarately i cup of milk 

1 teaspoonful of baking 1 cup of flour 
powder 

Steam in mould three-fourths of an hour. 

Sauce. 

i; cup of brown sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of syrup 

1 small cup of water 1 tablespoonful of butter 

Cinnamon, nutmeg and lemon 

Boil till thick. 

MISS HOPKINS. 



Spoug-e Puclcling- No. 3 

i cup of sugar i cup of butter 

i (generous) cup of flour Yolks of 5 eggs 
1 pint of boiled milk Whites of 5 eggs 

Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little cold milk 
and stir into the boiling milk. Cook until it thickens 
and is smooth; add the butter, and when well mixed, 
siir it into the well-beaten yolks of the eggs; thea add 
the whites beaten stiff. Bake in cups or a shallow dish, 
in a hot oven. Place the dish in a pan of hot water 
while in the oven. Serve with wine sauce. 

Mrs. C. E. SHEPARD (from Mrs. Lincoln). 



TRY Sioux Corn Starch for puddings. 



174 CLEVER COOKING 

Banana Puffs 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

1 cup of sugar i cup of water 

1 cup of flour 3 eggs 

1 teaspoonful of baking 3 bananas, sliced 
powder 

Stir the bananas into the batter, half fill buttered 
cups aad steam one hour. Serve with liquid sauce or 
clear cream. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Swiss Pudding 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

1 cup fine bread crumbs 2 cups milk 

3 eggs 1 tablespoonful melted but- 

i teaspoonful salt ter 

i saltspoonful pepper \ pound cheese, grated 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, add other ingredients, 

cover with dry crumbs, and bake in quick oven till 

browned. 

Mrs. WEBSTER BROWN. 

(From Mrs. Lincoln's Peerless Cook Book.) 

Tapioca Cream 

Will Serve Six Pet sorts. 

3 tables poonfuls pearl tapi- 1 quart rich milk 

oca 3 eggs 

f cup sugar 1 pinch salt 

Any flavor desired 

Cover the tapioca with cold water and let stand three 

hours, or over night. Place the milk in a rice boiler, 

and when it has reached the boiling point, stir in the 

tapioca. As soon as the latter becomes clear, add the 

yolks, beaten to a cream with the sugar and thinned 

with a little cold milk. Stir this in carefully and keep 

stirring until a thin custard is formed; then pour into a 

buttered dish, cover with a meringue made of the beaten 

whites, and brown in the oven. Serve cold with cream 

and sugar. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 



GERMEA— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



DESSEBTS 175 



Tapioca Cream No. 2 

2 tablespoonfuls tapioca Yolks of 12 eg^s 
1 pint rich milk 

Put the milk on the stove to heat, beat the yolks of 
the eggs, sweeten and flavor to taste; add the tapioca, 
which has been previously soaked; add this mixture to 
the boiling milk and cook till it thickens (must not boil), 
stirring constantly. Pour into a custard dish; make a 
meringue, spread over the top and brown lightly. Serve 
cold. A good way to use the yolks of eggs after mak- 
ing angel cake. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 



Rice Dessert 

i pound rice boiled in 1 quart 1 teaspoonful butter 

fresh milk 1 tablespoonful vanilla 

1 tablespoonful gelatine Sugar 

1 cup almonds 1 quart whipped cream 

Boil the rice until very tender, but preserve the 
grain. Before it is cold add the gelatine (dissolved) and 
butter. When very cold add the almonds blanched and 
chopped very fine; then add vanilla and whipped cream. 
Pour in dish and serve ver}' cold. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 

Kaw Rice Puclfling' 

2 quarts rich sweet milk | cup rice 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoonful salt 

I nutmeg, grated 

Wash the rice, drain off the water and add the milk 
and other ingredients. Bake about tw^o hours in a slow 
oven, stirring two or three times the first hour. Serve 
cold. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 



JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 



176 CLEVER COOKING 



Rice Pudding- 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls of raw rice and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and 1 quart of nnc milk into an earthenware 
dish and set on the back of the range, where it will keep 
/lo^. but no^ do/7, for two or three hours, stirring from the 
bottom as often as every fifteen minutes. Add salt and 
a little nutmeg, vanilla or seeded raisins. Put into a 
buttered pudding dish and bake till it is creamy and 
browned over the top. Stir two or three times after 
putting in the oven. If the oven is too hot and the pud- 
ding thickens too much stir in a little fresh milk. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVEXS. 

stuffed Banaua.s 

Turn back a section of skin from 6 bananas, scoop 
out the inside and press through fruit press. Pour 1 
tablespoonful of cold water onto 1 tablespoonful of gel- 
atine, and wlien well softened add 1 tablespoonful of hot 
water. Whip 1 cup of cream, add the banana pulp, the 
gelatine and a little powdered sugar. Fill the banana 
skins, replace the section of skin and place on ice for 
several hours. 

ADELAIDE M. BLACKWELL. 

Snow Pudding- 

i box gelatine i cup cold water 

1 cup boiling water 1 cup sugar 

i cup lemon juice Whites of 3 eggs 

Ci(f<t<(rd 

Yolks of 3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

h saltspoonful salt 1 pint hot milk 

^ teaspoonful vanilla 

Pour the cold water over the gelatine; after a few 

minutes pour on the hot water; add the sugar and lemon 

juice and allow it to boil. Put in wet moulds. When 

serving put the custard around it, and over this the 

beaten whites, sweetened. 

H. ALICE HOWELL. 



JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 



DESSERTS 177 



Lemon Honey 

1 pound sugar i pound butter 

6 eggs Juice and rind of 3 lemons 

Beat the eggs well, cream the butter and add the 
other ingredients. Cook like custard in a double boiler. 
This will keep several weeks and can be used for cheese 
cakes or pies. If it is to be used at once, a couple of 
the whites of the eggs may be left out for frosting. 

Miss MALTBY. 



Floating Island 

Wzl^ Serve Eight People. 

1 quart milk 5 eggs 

1 tablespoonful sugar Flavoring 

Put the milk on in the double boiler and when it boils 
add the yolks of the eggs well beaten, and the sugar. 
Stir well until the mixture thickens and then add the 
flavoi'ing. Pour into a mould and remove to a cool place. 
When cool pour it into the dish in which it is to be 
served and beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
and drop on the top with bits of jelly. This also makes 
a very nice and wholesome dish for the sick. 

Mrs. N. H. LATIMER. 



Lemon Sponge 

1 box gelatine 1 pint cold water 

\ pint boiling water 2 cups sugar 

Juice of 3 lemons Whites of 3 eggs 

Soak gelatine in the cold water for fifteen minutes; 
add boiling water, sugar and lemon juice. When this is 
cool before it sets add the beaten whites and beat well 
fifteen minutes, or until the mixture thickens, then turn 
into mould. Serve with cream. 

Mrs. J. R. ANDERSON. 



JOHNSON'S Columbian Brand Pine Apples. 

C. C.-13 



178 CLEVER COOKING 

Lemon Foam 

4 eggs 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Juice of 2 and grated rind of i lemon 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together, 
put in a double boiler and cook until thick; remove from 
the lire, add lemon and the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Serve in glasses. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 
(Mrs. Hinckley's Portland Cooking Class.) 

Chocolate Bread PutUliiig^ 

10 tablespoonfuls of bread 6 tablespoonfuls of grated 

crumbs chocolate 

1 pint of sweet milk 4 eggs 

1 cup of sugar 

Put crumbs, milk, sugar and chocolate together on 
stove. When boiling, add yolks of eggs and let thicken 
like custard and pour into a pudding dish. Beat whites 
stiff with sugar, put in oven on a sheet of manilla paper 
and brown; then slip carefully off on the pudding. 

MISS NANCY BREWER. 

Chocolate Custard 

Will Serve Six Persons. 

Stir into 1 quart of milk, 3 bars of chocolate grated, 

sweeten and flavor with vanilla. Let it boil up once or 

twice, take from fire and cool, beat yolks of 4 eggs and 

stir in, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth, pour 

in pudding dish and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. To 

be eaten warm. 

Mrs. WEBSTER BROWN. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange. 

Will Serve Six Persojis. 

1 quart of milk i box of gelatine 

3 tablespoonf als of grated 1 pint of cream whipped 
chocolate 

Dissolve the gelatine in a little of the milk, heat tlie 



QBE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



BESSEBTS 179 



rest, stir in dissolved gelatine, 1 teaspoonfiil of vanilla, 
and sugar to make quite sweet; pour out, and when se^ 
but not hard stir in the whipped cream; put in moulds 
and set on ice or in very cold place. This is delicious. 

Mrs. WEBSTER BROWN. 

Chocolate Cream 

Will Serve Six. 

i box of gelatine 1 pint of milk 

1 cup of white sugar + pint of cream 

i cup of grated chocolate 1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

Soak the gelatine in the warm water one hour; add 

to this the grated chocolate, sugar and milk. Stir all 

together and cook five minutes in a double boiler. Then 

add the cream and boil one minute. Flavor with vanilla 

and pour into a mould to cool. Serve with whipped 

cream. 

Mrs. G. W. BOARDMAN. 

Oraiig'e Cream 

1 pint of cream Juice of 3 oranges 

A little of the grated rind 1 cup of sugar 
Yolks of 3 eggs 1 ounce of gelatine 

Soak the gelatine in half a cup of cold water. Grate 

the rind and squeeze the juice of the oranges. Take 

half the cream and put in a double boiler. Add the 

beaten yolks and sugar; stir, and when it begins to 

thicken add the gelatine. When it has cooled a little 

add the orange juice and rind, beat and add remainder 

of cream. Put in moulds and serve with whipped 

cream. 

Mrs. S. L. CRAWFORD. 

Corn Starch Pudding 

Will Serve Six People. 
1 pint of sweet milk Whites of 3 eggs 

3 tablespoonf als of corn 3 tablespoonf uls of sugar 
starch A little salt 

Put milk in a pan and set in a kettle of hot water. 
USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



180 CLEVER COOKING 

When the milk boils add the sugar, then the corn starch 
dissolved in a little cold milk, and the whites of the eggs 
whii:)ped to a stiff froth. Beat the mixture and let it 
cook a few minutes, then flavor with lemon, pour in a 
mould and set on the ice. This can be made with water 
instead of milk, in which case add another tablespoonful 
of corn starch, a walnut of butter and flavor with the 
juice of a large lemon. 

Sauce. 
One pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, the 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs thinned by adding 1 tablespoon- 
ful of milk. Boil, and stir till it thickens, flavor with 2 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla, and set to cool. In serving, put 
the moulded pudding in a deep dish and pour the cus- 
tard over it, or it can be served with whipped cream. 

ANNA BEACH. 

Lemon Pudding- 
Mix 3 large tablespoonfuls of corn starch in cold 
water to dissolve it. Pour on 3 cups of boiling water, 
stirring all the time over the fire. Add 2 cups of sugar, 
2 eggs beaten separately, rind and juice of 2 lemons. 
Bake about five minutes. Serve cold with clear cream. 

Mrs. prank beach. 

Spongre Whips 

2 eggs, beaten separately 1 cup sugar 
^ cup milk 3 dessert spoonfuls butter 

i^^ cups flour 1 teaspoonf ul cream tartar 

^ teaspoonful soda ^teaspoonful salt 

Flavor with lemon 

Bake in small round tins. Take otf center of tops 
and take out enough of the cake to fill in 1 tablespoon- 
ful of whipped cream; put back covers and frost them. 

Fruit Jelly 

This is a nice way to use up fruit juice of any kind 
that is left, or orange juice may be used. Always add 

GERMEA— The Delightful Breakfast Dish. 



BESSIIBTS 181 



the juice of one or two lemons, according to size. Use 
i box of gelatine to 1 quart. The amount of sugar re- 
quired depends upon the juice and fruit used. 

Sweeten the juice if necessary and add the dissolved 
gelatine. Let it stand until it begins to thicken; stir in 
raisins, grapes, small pieces of bananas, thin slices of 
orange, preserved fruit of any kind, candied fruit, and 
halves of English walnuts. Any combination may be 
chosen. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Fruit Salad No. 1 

Equal quantities of canned pineapple, oranges and 

bananas, cut in small dice-shaped pieces. To be served 

with a spoonful of powdered sugar on the side of each 

plate. 

Miss HOPKINS. 

Fruit Salad No. 2 

f box gelatine 2 lemons 

6 figs 2 oranges 

9 dates 10 nuts of any kind 

^ pint boiling water 2 cups sugar 

i pint cold water 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for one hour; 
then add the boiling water, the juice of the lemons and 
the sugar. Strain and let stand till it begins to thicken. 
Stir in all of the fruit cut into small pieces and let it 
harden. Pour into a mould. 

Mrs. FRED RICE ROWELL. 

Orange Charlotte 

i box gelatine ^ cup cold water 

■k cup boiling water 1 cup sugar 

Juice of li lemons 1 cup orange juice and pulp 

Whites of 3 eggs 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft. Pour in 
the boiling water, add the sugar and lemon juice, also 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



182 CLEVER COOKING 

orange juice and pulp with a little of the grated rind; 
strain and cool in a pan of ice water. Beat white of 
eggs stiff, and when the jelly begins to harden beat 
until light, then add the whites and beat together until 
stiff enough to drop. Pour into a mould and let stand 
for a couple of hours. Serve with soft custard made 
from the yolks of the eggs. 

Mrs. B. p. bush. 

Charlotte Itusse 

1 quart of good cream ^ pound of lady fingers 

f cup of powdered sugar \ box of gelatine 

\ gill of sherry (if you use 1 teasjooonful of vanilla 
wine) 

Cover the gelatine with cold water, and let it soak 
for a half- hour. Whip the cream and lay it on a sieve 
to drain. Line two plain two-quart moulds with the 
lady fingers. Now turn the cream into a large basin 
and place it in a pan of cracked ice; add to the soaked 
gelatine just enough boiling w^ater to dissolve it. Now 
add the sugar carefully to the cream, then the vanilla 
and wine, and last, strain in the gelatine. Commence to 
stir immediately; stir from the sides and bottom of the 
basin until it begins to thicken, then pour into the 
moulds and set aw^ay on the ice to harden. 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 



Parisian Charlotte 

\ box of gelatine 1 quart of cream 

1 cup of grated cocoanut \ pound of stale lady fin- 

i pound of macaroons gers 

4 eggs 2 tablespoonf uls of sugar 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it soak a 
half hour. Whip one-half the cream, and stand it away 
until wanted. Put the remaining half to boil in a farina 
boiler. Beat the eggs and sugar together until light 
(do not separate the eggs), stir into the boiling milk, 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



DESSDBTS 183 



and stir one minute until it thickens; add the gelatine, 
take from the fire, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and the 
lady fingers, macaroons and cocoanut, and turn into a 
basin. Now place the basin in a pan of cracked ice, and 
stir co7iii7iually until it just begins to thicken; then add 
the whipped cream, and stir very carefully until thor- 
oughly mixed. Wet a fancy mould with cold water, 
turn in the mixture and stand on the ice to harden. 

Or, cut the center oat of a one-pound, stale sponge 
cake, leaving a bottom and sides about a half inch thick, 
and pour the mixture into this instead of the mould. 
Serve with Montrose sauce. 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 



Cocoanut Charlotte 

Grate 1 cocoanut, pour over it 1 pint of boiling 
water. Stir well. When cool, wring it in a cheese 
cloth and set this water, or milk away until cold. Cover 
\ box of gelatine, with ^ cup of cold water. Whip 1 pint 
of cream, skim the cocoanut cream, from the top of the 
milk and add it to the gelatine; add i cup of the water 
also, and stir over the fire a moment till the gelatine is 
dissolved. Add to the whipped cream f cup of pow- 
dered sugar; then the gelatine and cocoanut cream; stir 
it at once and stir continually until it begins to thicken. 
Turn in a mould and stand away to harden. When 
ready to serve, turn out and garnish with preserved 
chestnuts. Pour over the chestnut syrup as a sauce. 
This is both good and sightly. By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS CO. 

Banana Cream 

Take 5 large bananas, skin and mash them to a pulp, 
together with 5 ounces of sugar. Beat i pint of cream 
to a stiff froth, add the bananas, ^ wineglass of brandy, 
and the juice of 2 lemons, and the thhi yellow grated 
rind of 1 lemon; then \ ounce of gelatine (which has 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



184 CLEVER COOKING 



stood for an hour in a little cold water) dissolved in 
little hot water; stir into the mixture; beat for a few 
minutes, fill a mould and set on ice for four or five 
hours. 

Mrs. J. C. HAINES. 

Dorchester Club Pucldmg 

1 cup of hot milk 1 teaspoonful of salt 
^ cup of stale sponge cake 1 cup of grated apple 

crumbs 2 eggs 

i cup of whipped cream 1 lemon (juice) 

2 teaspoonfuls of powdered 4 cup of sugar 

sugar 

Soak the cake in the hot milk until soft. Beat the 
yolks, add sugar, salt, grated rind and juice of half the 
lemon, and stir this into the milk. Whip the cream. 
Grate the apple quickly into the mixture, add the 
cream and turn into a buttered pudding dish and bake 
about half an hour or until it puffs all over. When 
slightly cooled cover with a meringue, made of the 
whites of the eggs, powdered sugar and lemon, and 
brown in the oven. 

Mrs. LINCOLN (in the American Kitclien Magazine). 

Peach SnowbalLs 

^ box Knox's gelatine Whites of 3 eggs 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon Small pinch salt 
Flavor with vanilla 

Cover the gelatine with cold water; when soft add 
boiling water to make a full pint or a little more; strain 
it on a platter; when cool break into it the whites of the 
eggs and beat until it begins to stiffen. Add a little 
sugar, lemon juice and grated rind, salt and vanilla, also 
about half a pint of canned peaches, pineapple or other 
fruit, reduced to a smooth pulp through the colander. 
Have the fruit very sweet. Beat all together until stiff 
and foamy, then mould in cafe or egg cups. Set them 
aside to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



DESSERTS 185 



Ruby Cream 

I pint tapioca li pints water 

Rind and juice of 1 lemon 4 ounces sugar 
-k pint currant jelly 

Soak tapioca in i pint cold water over night; simmer 
the soaked tapioca and lemon rind cut in pieces in 1 pint 
water until clear; skim out rind and stir in the sugar 
and jelly and lemon juice; simmer a few minutes and 
pour into dish for serving. Just before serving make 
a snow of sweetened whipped cream or a meringue 
made with the whites of 4 eggs and powdered sugar, 
and pour over the tapioca cream. 

Mrs. CORWIN S. SHANK. 



Lemon Snow 

1 box Knox's granulated \\ quarts cold water 

gelatine 4 lemons (rind and juice) 

1 pound sugar Whites of 4 eggs 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, then dissolve over 
fire together with the lemons and sugar. Boil two or 
three minutes; strain and let stand until it begins to 
set. Then whip in the well -beaten whites of eggs until 
all is about the consistency of sponge. Serve with 
whipped cream or a thin custard. 

Mrs. CORWIN S. SHANK. 



Fruit Glace' 

Pour over 1 teacupful granulated sugar \ pint hot 
water, let it boil without stirring a few moments; cut 
oranges into eighths and dip each piece into the syrup; 
lay on a dish to cool. Take English walnuts and treat 
the same way. When cool pile the nuts in the center of 
a pretty dish and lay the oranges around them. 

Mrs. LOUISE A. THOMPSON. 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



186 CLEVEB COOKING 



Vanity Pudding 

IViil Scrz'e Eight Persojis. 

Whites of 6 eg.^s 6 tablespoon fuls powdered 

Jelly or fruit sugar 

Beat eggs to a very stiff froth; add gradually the 

sugar, beating not less than thirty minutes. Put in 2 

tablespoonfuls of preserved peaches or small fruits and 

beat ten minutes longer; set on ice or in a cool place. 

Serve with rich cream. 

Mus. EDWARD WHEELER. 

An gels Pudding 

4 ounces sugar 2 ounces butter 

4 ounces sifted flour 4 eggs (whites only) 

1 pint thick sweet cream 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream; add flour, then 

cream, and last the whites of eggs beaten very light. 

Flavor with vanilla. Bake in tartpans and cover with a 

stiff meringue. 

Mrs. J. D. LOWMAN. 



Spanish Cream No. 1 

1 pint milk \ box gelatine 

2 eggs (yolks and whites) ^ cup sugar 

Vanilla 

Pour the milk over the gelatine and let stand an 
hour; strain, put on the stove and let come to a boil; 
stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and the sugar; cook 
one minute. Take from the stove and add the whites 
whipped stiff ; flavor, pour into moulds. Serve with 

whipped cream. 

Mrs. HELEN M. HUNT. 



Spanish tl'reani No. 2 

4 eggs i box gelatine 

1 pint milk 1 cup sugar 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Soak gelatine in the milk, then put on stove and heat 



niJSSEBTS 187 



boiling hot; add beaten yolks of egg; then pour through 

roth. 
Mrs. H. R. CLISE. 



the whites of eggs beaten to stiff froth 



Omelette Souffle 

PVz7l Se7've Six or Eight Persons. 

Whites of 9 eggs Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered 6 macaroons crumbled fine 
sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Beat the yolks very Hght; add the sugar, stirring 
them together very thoroughly; then add vanilla. Beat 
the whites very light, and very carefully and lightly add 
the beaten yolks and sugar, a little at a time. Have 
ready a cold plate, onto which pile the mixture, a little 
at a time, but quickly, sprinkling each spoonful with the 
macaroons. Make the pile high and dome-shaped. 
Bake in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. J. D LUWMAN. 



White and Gold Custard 

5 eggs 1 quart new milk 

Sugar, salt, flavoring 

Take 1 pint of the milk, the whites of the eggs 
slightly beaten, about 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, salt 
and vanilla; mix and strain into a buttered pudding 
mould, and bake very carefully. Set the mould into a 
deep pan of hot water, which should never boil. Test 
by cutting into the center with a silver knife, as for any 
custard. Set aside to cool, and it is better made the day 
before using. Make a soft custard with the yolks of 
the eggs and the remaining pint of milk, and when thor- 
oughly cold, flavor with vanilla or sherry. Turn the 
baked custard into a glass dish and pour the soft cust- 
ard around it. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



188 CLEVER COOKING 

Virginia Caramel Custard 

1 quart milk i pound sugar 

5 eggs Pinch of salt 

Flavor rosewater or almond, 1 dessert spoonful 

Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs; 

beat sugar and yolks together, add the well-beaten 

whites and mix with the milk, flavor and pour into a 

buttered mould or tin; set immediately into a pan of 

boiling water in a moderately hot oven. About half an 

hour will be required to set it firmly. When nicely 

browned and puffed up touch the middle with a knife 

blade; if it cuts as smooth there as around the sides, it 

is done. Be careful not to overdo. Let the custard 

stand until perfectly cold, turn out gently on a plate, 

dust thickly with sugar, place in upper part of hot oven. 

The sugar melts at once and browns without heating 

the custard. 

Mrs. GEORGE HEILBRON. 



Pineapple Pudding 

IF/// Serve Six Pe7'sons. 

Pour off the syrup from 1 can of sliced pineapple, 

add to it 1 cup of sugar; cook without stirring until it 

ropes. While this is cooking cut the slices of pineapple 

into small dice, arrange in the serving dish and pour 

over it the syrup. When cold put a layer of lady fingers 

over the pineapple and heap whipped cream on the lady 

fingers. 

Mrs. HINCHLIPPE, 



Strawberry Cream 

\ box Cox's gelatine 

1 pint strained strawberry juice made very sweet 

Soak the gelatine in 1 cup of boiling water for one 
hour. Put the gelatine on the stove and allow it to boil 
until all is dissolved. Add strawberry juice and 1 pint 
of stiff whipped cream, beating all well together with 



DESSERTS 189 



an egg-beater. Stand on ice over night. Turn out the 
mould on a platter and pour over it stiffty whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored with the strawberry 
juice, and strew the whole thickly with ripe straw- 
berries. 



Mrs. noble. 



Strawberry Gelatine 

1 box of gelatine 1 quart of strawberries 

2 lemons H cups of sugar 

1 pint of boiling water 

Soak the gelatine one hour in h cup of cold water. 
Mash half the berries with | cup of the sugar, add the 
gelatine, the lemon juice and the remainder of the 
sugar, and pour boiling water over all. Stir till the 
gelatine is dissolved and strain into a mould, which 
should be not more than half full. When co/d and begin- 
ning to stiffen add the remainder of the berries whole. 
Put on ice for twelve hours or more and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Peaches, raspberries or blackberries can be pre- 
pared in the same manner, varying amount of sugar 
according to acid in the fruit. 

Mrs. M. p. BENTON. 



Kaspberry Cream 

i box of gelatine i cup of cold water 

i cup of boiling water 1 cup of sugar 

i pint of cream (wliipped) 1 pint of raspberry juice 

Soak the gelatine one hour in the cold water, then 
put it with the sugar and boiling water in the double 
boiler over the fire and stir until thoroughly dissolved. 
Add the raspberry juice, strain and set in a cool place. 
When it has begun to form stir in the whipped cream. 
Turn into the mould and set on ice to harden. 

Mrs. W. H. DE WOLP. 



USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



190 CLEVER COOKING 



Croqiiante of Peaches 

lVz7/ Serve Eight Persons. 

18 nice ripe peaches 1 pound of sugar 

1 pintof small strawberries \ pint of water 
The recipe for Charlotte Russe 

Boil the sugar and water together until it is brittle 
when dropped in cold water; that is, when it begins to 
boil up in large bubbles, take a little of it on a spoon 
and drop it into cold water; if it snaps in breaking, it is 
sufficiently boiled. Take it from the fire immediately. 
Rub a plain two-quart mould with melted butter or oil. 
Have ready the peaches pared, cut into halves and 
stoned, the strawberries stemmed. Put a piece of peach 
on a wooden skewer, dip it in the syrup, then dip a 
berry in the syrup, and place in the center of the peach 
where the stone was taken out, then press it against 
the side of the mould, and so continue until the mould 
is lined, then stand away in a cold place to harden. 
When hard, fill with Charlotte Russe, and stand in a 
cold place for an hour or two. When ready to serve, 
put a plate over the mould, turn it upside down, wipe 
the outside of the mould with a warm cloth, then care- 
fully lift it off. This dish is both beautiful and good. 
By permission of 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 

Croquantes of raspberries, strawberries or oranges 
may be prepared in the same manner. 

Little Creams of Chestnuts 

Drain the syrup from one bottle of German pre- 
served chestnuts; whip 1 pint of cream; put it in a pan; 
stand this in another of cracked ice; add the syrup, a 
teaspoonful of vanilla and \ box of gelatine that has 
been soaked in \ cup of water, for half an hour; then 
dissolve over hot water. Begin at once to stir, and stir 
till it thickens. Turn into individual moulds, and stand 

USE Knox's Sparkling Gelatine. 



DUSSERTS 191 



aside to harden, and get very cold. Bake a sheet of 
sponge cake and when ready to serve the dessert cut 
into stars or rounds about two inches larger than the 
moulds; place them on the serving dishes, cover with 
currant jelly and stand a mould in the center of each. 
Press the chestnuts through a colander; and cover the 
creams closely with these pressings. If done carefully 
they look like long pieces of boiled spaghetti neatly 
twined around. The remaining quantity may be 
softened with a little cream, and flavored with vanilla 
or sherry and poured in the dish as a sauce. 
By permission of 
Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS. 

Cream Glace 

IVzll Serve Five Persons. 

Whites of 3 eggs 

6 level tablespoonfuls granulated sugar 

Beat whites to stiff froth; add the sugar gradually. 
Drop on greased brown paper, and bake in slow oven, 
to brown in about ten minutes and left in oven to cool 
off for three-quarters of an hour. Can be served in two 
ways: First, puncture the top and fill with whipped 
cream. Second, crush in bottom, Jill with ice-cream 
and put two together, concealing the ice cream. 

Mrs ROBERT PALMER. 

Cream Puffs 

This Makes Fifteen Puffs. 
1 cup hot water \ cup butter 

Boil the water and butter together and stir in 1 cup 
of dry flour while boiling. When cool add 3 eggs not 
beaten; mix well. Drop by tablespoonfuls on buttered 
tins. Bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

Filling. 

1 cup milk \ cup sugar 

1 Q^^ 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

Beat eggs and sugar together, add the flour and stir 



192 CLEVER COOKING 

into the milk while boiling. Flavor when cool. 

Mrs. a. W. ENGLE. 



Coffee Jelly 

Soak I box in a little cold water; pour over it 1 pint 
of boiling coffee; sweeten to taste. Stir till all is dis- 
solved; strain and mould. Serve very cold with whipped 

cream. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 



Wine Jelly 

Uncooked. 

i box gelatine i cup cold water 

1 pint boiling water Juice of 1 lemon 

1 cup sugar 1 cup sherry wine 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water about fifteen min- 
utes or until soft; add the boiling water, lemon juice, 
sugar and wine. Stir well, strain through a napkin into 
a shallow dish; keep in a cool place or in ice water until 
hard. When ready to serve break up lightly with a 
fork. If you wish to mould it add only f of a pint of 
boiling water. 

If you wish to mould fruit into it (candied cherries 
are especially nice), pour a layer of the jelly into the 
mould, let it harden, then put in a layer of fruit, then 
another layer of jelly, and so on until the mould is full. 
During the process keep the unused jelly where it will 
remain in a liquid state. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



Kisses 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. Stir into this pow- 
dered sugar all it will contain. Blanch some almonds, 
and chop them fine. Mix with the above. Drop on a 
buttered pan and bake a light brown. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 



DESSEBTS 193 



Tipsy Cake 

Will Serve Ten or Twelve Perso7is. 

1 dozen lady fingers 1 pint of milk 

1 dozen macaroons 3 eggs 

\\ dozen blanched almonds 1 teaspoonful of corn 
i cup of brandy starch 

^ cup of sherry 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

\ pintof firm raspberry jam 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla 

\ pint of thick cream to 2 tablespoonfuls of pow- 
whip dered sugar 

Mix the sherry and brandy, split the lady fingers, 
dip 12 halves one by one quickly in the liquor and 
spread them on the bottom of a deep glass dish, com- 
pletely covering the bottom, in each piece stick half of a 
blanched almond. Then treat the macaroons in the 
same way and place a layer of them on the lady fingers 
and finish with another layer of lady fingers, using 
almonds in each layer. Make the upper layer of lady 
fingers very even and spread the raspberry jam 
smoothly over them. 

Make a soft boiled custard thus : Bring the milk to 
a boil (reserving 2 tablespoonfuls to mix with the corn 
starch); add the sugar; let boil up again. Stir the 
corn starch into the 2 tablespoonfuls of milk; stir this 
into the well beaten eggs and add slowly to the boiling 
milk. Let it come j^ist to a boil, stirring constantly. 
Remove from the fire and when cool add 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla. When cold put it spoonful by spoonful on 
the jam, making the top smooth. Set in a cold place for 
an hour. Have the cream very cold, whip very stiif, 
put in the powdered sugar and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla 
and heap on the custard, making a trifle higher in the 
center. Serve very cold. 

Mrs. J. McB. SMITH, Victoria. 

To Make a Trifle 

For the Whip. 

1 pint of cream 3 ounces of pounded sugar 

A small glass of cherry or Whites of 2 eggs 
raisia wine 

C. C— 13 



194 CLEVER COOKING 

For the Trifle. 
A custard made with 8 eg-gs to a pint of milk 
6 small spoDge cakes or 6 slices of sponge cake 
12 macaroons 
2 dozen ratafias 
2 ounces of sweet almonds 
Grated rind of 1 lemon 
A layer of raspberry or strawberry jam 
^ pint of sherry or sweet wine 
6 tablespoonfuls of brandy 

The whip to lay over the top of the trifle should be 
made the day before it is required, as the flavor is bet- 
ter, and it is much more solid than when prepared the 
same day. 

Put into a large bowl the pounded sugar, the whites 
of the eggs which should be beaten to a stiff froth, the 
wine and the cream. Whisk these ingredients well in a 
cool place, and take off the froth with a skimmer as fast 
as it rises and put it on a sieve to drain; continue the 
whisking until there is sufficient of the whip, which 
must be put away in a cool place to drain. 

The next day place the sponge cake, macaroons and 
ratafias in layers in the trifle dish; pour over them the 
wine mixed with the brandy, and should the proportion 
of wine not be found suflicient add a little more, as the 
cakes should be well soaked. Over the cake put grated 
lemon rind and sweet almonds, blanched and cut into 
strips, and a layer of jam. 

Make the custard with the eggs and milk; let this 
cool a little, then pour it over the cake, etc. Heap the 
whip lightly in a mound over the top and garnish if de- 
sired with strips of currant jelly or crystallized sweet 
meats. 
Mrs. a. F. McEWAN (from Mrs. Beetau's English Cook Book). 

Superior Short Cake 

1 egg i cup of milk 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar 1 tablespoonful of butter 
1^ teaspoonfuls of baking 2 cups of flour 

powder A little salt 

Nice with warm apple sauce and cream. 

Mrs. JAMES CURTIS. 



UESSEBTS 195 



PUDDING SAUCES 



Kich Cream Sauce 

1 pint of water 3 table spoonfuls of flour 
i cup of butter 2 cupfuls of sugar 

2 eggs ^ nutmeg 

^ pint of sherry or brandy 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, 
well beaten, then the nutmeg. Heat the brandy as hot 
as possible without boiling; bring the water to a boil in 
another vessel, and stir in the flour (rubbed smooth with 
a little cold water), and cook it well for about two min- 
utes. Mix well the ingredients off the fire. 

Mrs. lewis H. SULLIVAN. 

Cream Sauce 

i cup of powdered sugar 4 tablespoonf uls of cream 
2 tablespoonf uls of sherry 

Beat butter and sugar until very light and creamy, 
then add the wine and cream gradually. Beat very 
thoroughly. At serving time place the bowl over the 
teakettle and stir from the bottom, until it begins to 
look smooth, then take from the fire and beat till all is 
very smooth and creamy. The heat of the bowl is sufli- 
cient after the mixture begins to get smooth. This 
sauce must not stand after heating. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Ice Creaui Sauce 

1 cup of butter 2 cups of powdered sugar 

Yolk of 1 Q^^ 2 tablespoonf uls of sheriy 

Beat the butter to a cream, then add gradually the 
powdered sugar and the yolk of Q^%, with the sherry 



196 CLEVER COOKING 

last. Serve on a glass dish and cover with the following 
when prepared : 

Whites of 2 eggs Sugar to thicken 

^ teaspoonful of lemon ex- 1 teaspoonful of vanilla 
tract 

Whip the whites to a stiff froth and add enough sugar 
to thicken, flavor with the lemon and vanilla and cover 
the first part of sauce with it. Set away in a cool place 
until it stiffens. 

Mrs. frank C. sharp, Tacoma. 

Foam Sauce 

i cup of butter 1 cup of powdered sugar 

White of 1 K^gg i cup of boiling water 

3 tablespoonfuls of brandy or lemon juice 

Beat the butter to a cream, gradually add sugar, 
then white of egg unbeaten, and water a little at a time. 
Cook about two minutes until smooth. 

Mrs. GEORGE NEWLANDS. 

Pudding Sauce 

1 cup of sugar 1 egg 

4 tablespoonfuls of boiling 1 wineglass of wine 
milk 

Beat the sugar and eggs together until white, stir in 
the milk and add the wine. 

Mrs. C. E. SHEPARD. 



Maple Sugar Sauce 

^ pound of maple sugar i cup of water 

1 lemon Whites of 2 eggs 

1 cup of cream 

Grate the sugar, add the water and boil until it 
hairs. Add the juice of the lemon. Beat whites of eggs 
stiff, and gradually add the syrup. 

Mrs. WINFIELD r. smith. 



BESSEBTS 197 



Hard Sauce 



i cup of butter 1 cup of powdered sugar 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla or Whites of 2 eggs 
1 tablespoonful of brandy 

Beat the butter to a cream, add gradually the sugar, 
and beat till very light; add the whites one at a time, 
and beat all till very light and frothy, then add gradu- 
ally the flavoring and beat again. Heap on a small 
dish, sprinkle lightlv with grated nutmeg and stand on 
the ice to harden. Fairy or Nuns Butter is made by 
substituting sherry for the brandy. By permission of 
Mrs. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO., Pub. 



Fruit Sauce 

Put 1 cup of boiling water into a saucepan, add i cup 
of any tart marmalade, and the juice of a lemon. Bring 
to a boil, thicken with arrowroot, about a tablespoonful, 
and sweeten to taste. Let it cook until clear, about five 
minutes, and pour it over the white of an egg, beaten 
to a stiff froth. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Laura's Pudding Sauce 

1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

Vanilla 

Beat the white and yolk of the egg separately, add 
sugar to yolk and thoroughly beat, then add vanilla and 
then the white. Beat all together thoroughly and serve 

ai once. 

Mrs. L. G. BANNARD. 



Sauce for Suet Pudding 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs and 1 cup of sugar very 
light. Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff, add to the 
yolks and sugar and beat again. 

^ Mrs. GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 



198 CLEVER COOKING 



French Pii deling Sauce 

4 ounces of butter i ounce of brown sugar 

Yolk of 1 egg 1 gill of wine 

Nutmeg 

Beat butter to a cream, stir in sugar, add yolk and 
wine. Place on stove, stirring until it simmers. Grate 
nutmeg over it before sending to the table. 

THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Sauce 

1 cup of sugar 1 q^^ 

\ cup of butter 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling 
1 lemon, juice and grated water 

rind 

Cook in double boiler till thick. 

Mrs. ISAAC H. .JENNINGS. 



Sauce for a Plain Puthling 

Cover 1 teacupful of sugar with \ cup of water and 
boil to a syrup; add butter size of a walnut, and 2 eggs 
beaten light, whites and yolks together. Stir very 
quickly until it is the consistency of cream, flavor with 
brandy or sherry, and use immediately. 



GE GREAM AND IGES 



"I always thought cold victuals nice — 
My choice would be vanilla ice." 

— Holmes 



Foundations for Ice Cream 

The two principal foundations for ice creams are 
Philadelphia and Neapolitan, and nearly all the princi- 
pal creams may be made from these by varying the 
flavoring, v^ith the addition of fruits (fresh, candied or 
preserved), nuts, small cakes, wines, etc., and by various 
methods of moulding and combining a bewildering vari- 
ety of delicious ice creams may be made. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream is made with pure cream. 
To a quart of cream, scalded not boiled, add 
a cup of sugar; stir till dissolved, add the 
flavoring, strain and freeze. Or, whip the cream, 
let stand a few minutes, skim off the whipped 
part, put sugar and flavoring with the unwhipped part, 
which has been scalded, and when partly frozen add the 
whipped cream and finish freezing. This will give a 
larger quantity when frozen, and it will be very light 
and delicate. If fruits are to be used it is better to scald 
the cream, as that will prevent curdling. A quicker 
w^ay is to use the cream without either scalding or whip- 
ping, but the ice cream will not be so rich or delicate. 

Neapolitan Ice Cream is made by adding eggs, in the 
proportion of four to a quart of cream. The cream 
should be scalded, the eggs thoroughly beaten, sepa- 

(199) 



200 CLEVER COOKING 

rately, the sugar added, then the hot cream and the 
mixture cooked like soft custard. Or the custard may 
be made with the yolks alone, and the stiffly beaten 
whites added when the cream is partly frozen. Flavor- 
ings should be added when the custard has cooled. 

Vanilla, Lemon, Fruit Creams and Bi.sque 

For vanilla ice cream, add about 2 tablespoonfuls of 
vanilla extract, according to strength to either of the 
above foundations. 

For lemon ice cream, mix about 2 tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice with a half cup of the sugar, stir into the 
mixture, strain and freeze. 

¥ or fruit creams, add about a pint of strained fruit 
juice, mash a quart of fresh fruit to a pulp, press 
through a sieve and add to the prepared cream. More 
or less sugar must be added according to the acidity of 
the fruit, and in almost all instances the juice of a lemon 
is an improvement. 

For bisque ice cream, add about a cupful of any kind 
of fine dried sweet crumbs, preferably macaroons, lady 
fingers or fancy wafers. Flavor the cream with al- 
mond, vanilla or caramel, not too strong, and after ad- 
ding the crumbs a slight flavoring of sherry may be 

added to advantage. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Peach, Chocolate, and Baked Apple 

For Peach Ice Oram — To a quart of plain ice cream 
add about a dozen peaches. Mash half of them to a 
pulp, and cut half of them in quite small pieces. 
Sweeten to taste and add to the cream. 

For Chocolate Ice Cream — To a quart of ice cream use 
two bars of sweetened chocolate. Melt the chocolate 
in a little milk or water and add to the cream. Vanilla 
is the best flavoring with chocolate. 

For Baked Apple Ice Cream — To a quart of cream use 

from 4 to 8 apples, according to size. Bake well and 

mash through a sieve. Sweeten to taste and add to the 

cream. This is delicious. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



ICE CUE AM AND ICES 201 



Oai'ainel Cream No. 1 

To 1 quart of boiling milk add a very small piece of 
butter and 1 cup of burnt sugar, into which 1 good 
lablespoonful of flour has been mixed smoothly. Boil a 
moment to thicken and remove from the fire. When 
perfectly cold, add 3 pints cream, and vanilla to taste, 
and freeze; if not sweet enough, add plain sugar (too 
much of the burnt sugar will make it bitter). 

Mrs. H C. henry. 

Caramel Ice Cream No. U 

1 gallon cream 4 teacups powdered sugar 

5 tablespoonfuls caramel 

For the caramel, put in a saucepan 1 teacup brown 

sugar and ^ cup of water; stew over a hot fire until it 

burns. When cold put into the mixture of cream, and 

freeze. 

Mrs. a. J. FISKEN. 

Banana Ice Cream 

Make a custard with 14- pints milk and 4 eggs; 
sweeten to taste and flavor with vanilla; set away to 
cool. When the custard is partly frozen, add 1 pint of 
cream which has been whipped stiff, and 4 bananas 
mashed fine. When all is frozen sufticiently, remove 
dasher and pack until needed. 

Mrs. MAURICE McMICKEN. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

lVz7/ Serve Six Persons. 

1 pint cream 1 quart berries 

Sugar 

Mash the berries and add sugar to make quite sweet; 
then add the cream and freeze. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Lemon Cream 

2 quarts cream 4 lemons 

1 pound powdered sugar 

Add the sugar to 1 pint of the cream, then the grated 



202 CLEVER COOKING 

rind and juice of the lemons; beat well and add to the 
remainder of the cream; strain and freeze. 

Mrs. RIPLEY. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

3 pints cream 1 cup black coffee, very 

2 cups sugar strong and clear 

2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot wet up with cold milk 

Heat half the cream nearly to boiling, stir in the 
sugar, and when this is melted, the coffee, then the 
arrowroot. Boil all together five minutes, stining con- 
stantly. When cool, beat up very light, whipping in 
the rest of the cream by degrees; then freeze. 

Mrs. C. J. SMITH. 

Bisque 

1 pint cream, whipped 

1 cup sugar beaten with yolks of 3 eggs 

Beat whites separatelj^; flavor, and beat all together. 

Put in mould and cover with ice and salt; pack and let 

stand until frozen. 

ISABEL JONES. 

Chocolate Mousse 

Whip 1 quart of cream to a stiff froth and place in a 
bowl in a basin of ice. Grate 1 ounce of chocolate, add 

3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and 1 tablespoonful 
of boiling water. Stir over a hot fire till perfectly 
smooth, then add 6 tablespoonfuls of the whipped cream 
and set aside to cool. When cold add dish of whipped 
cream, taking care not to get any of the liquid cream at 
the bottom, if there is any. Stir in gently 1 cup of pow- 
dered sugar, pack in a mousse tin and put a strip of 
buttered muslin a,round the edge. In packing a mousse 
put a layer cf fine ice, then a thick one of salt, till the 
mould is covered, and freeze from four to six hours. 
Serve on very cold plates. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 203 



Strawberry Mousse 

Wash 1 quart of strawberries, press through a sieve, 

add powdered sugar to taste and set on ice till very cold. 

Add 1 pint of whipped cream, turn into a mould and 

freeze as above. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 
(From Mrs. Hinckley's Portland Cooking Class.) 



Foimdation For All lees 

lVi7/ Serve Ten People. 

1 quart water 1 pint or 1 pound sugar 

Juice of 4 lemons Whites of 2 eggs 

Dissolve sugar in 1 quart of boiling water, add lemon 

juice, let cool, then freeze; when half frozen add the 

whites, beaten stiff. To make raspberry, strawberry, 

pineapple or plum ice add to the above 1 pint of either 

juice before freezing. While fresh fruit is preferable, 

a very good substitute for use in winter is the juice 

from choice canned goods, or jelly dissolved in hot 

water. 

Mrs. S. L. CRAWFORD. 

Cherry Ice 

1 pint of granulated sugar 1 quart of hot water 

1 pint of rich cherry juice 5 lemons 

2 tablespoonf uls of pulver- Whites of 2 eggs 

ized sugar 

Dissolve sugar in the hot water, add cherry juice, 
lemon juice and grated yellow rind of 2 lemons, and set 
away to cool. 

While the mixture is cooling whip the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth and gradually beat the pulverized 
sugar with it. Freeze the cooled mixture until it be- 
gins to adhere to the sides of the freezer ; then add 
whites of eggs and freeze until stilf. Pack in the 
freezer and let stand half an hour before serving. 

Mrs. ALEXANDER F. McEWAN. 



204 CLEVEB COOKING 



Ljemoii Ginger Sherbet 

Will Serve Eight Persons Boiintifidly. 

4 lemons 1 large pint of granulated 
14^ pints of boiling water sugar 

1 dessert spoonful of gela- \ pint of cold water 
tine 

Soak the gelatine in cold water; shave off the peel 
of 2 lemons, being careful to take none of the rind be- 
neath the oil cells; put the parings into a bowl; add 
boiling water; let stand ten or fifteen minutes; cut the 
lemons in half, remove the seeds, squeeze out the juice 
and add with the gelatine and sugar to the boiling 
water; strain into freezer. Just after putting into 
freezer add ginger extract to taste. It should be pretty 
strong. When frozen, pack to ripen. 

Mrs. EDWIN HINCHLIFFE. 

Pomegranate Sherbet 

f tablespoonful of gelatine \ cup of cold water 
\ cup of boiling water l^ cups of sugar 

1 lemon 6 blood-red oranges or 1 

pint of juice 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water ten minutes, add 

the boiling water and when dissolved add the sugar and 

orange juice. Strain when the sugar is dissolved and 

freeze. 

Mrs. E. a. STROUT. 



Ging-er Sherbet 

To 1 pint of lemon ice add 3 ounces of preserved 

ginger cut into small pieces, and a little of the ginger 

syrup. Stir the ginger into the frozen ice and pack for 

an hour or so. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Tntti Friitti Ice 

Make an ice after the rule for lemon ice, using 
peach (or raspberry) juice in place of lemon, and then 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 20-5 

add the juice of 1 lemon. When frozen add the beaten 
white of 1 egg, and 1 cup of peaches, candied cherries 
and nuts cut in small pieces. Any preferred combina- 
tion of fruits may be used, such as the French candied 
fruits or the candied fruits and nuts, angelica, citron 
and fresh oranes; or dates, figs, currants, raisins and 
citron. Canned fruits may also be used in various 
combinations and the canned tutti frutti. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Sherbet "Three of a Kind" 

3 oranges 3 lemons 

3 bananas 3 cups of water 

3 cups of sugar Whites of 3 eggs 

Beat whites of eggs and put in freezer when the rest 

is partly frozen. (Pineapple or other fruits may be 

substituted.) 

Mrs. H. C. henry (from Miss Hubbard). 

Milk Sherbet 

IVt// Serve Six Persons. 

3 pints of milk | pint of cream 

2 cups of sugar i box of gelatine 

3 lemons 

Scald the milk, adding cream and the gelatine dis- 
solved in a little milk. Pour it over the sugar and 
strain. When half frozen add juice and a little of the 

rind of the lemons. 

Mrs. THOMAS GREEN. 

Water Ice 

Enotigh for Six Persoris. 

To 1 pint of cold water add the chopped peel of 4 

lemons; boil. While this is boiling take 1 quart of cold 

water and add the juice of the 4 lemons and 1 pint of 

sugar. When the first mixture is cold add to the last 

and strain. When ready to freeze add the whites of 3 

eggs beaten to a froth. 

Mrs. DE WOLFE. 



206 CLEVER COOKING 

Tomato Water Ice 

(From Table Talk.) 

Pat in a saucepan \ can of tomatoes, 1 pint of water, 
the juice of 1 lemon, 3 sliced apples, f cup of f^ranulated 
sugar and a pinch of ground ginger. Heat slowly to 
the boiling point, take from the fire and rub through 
a sieve. Color with a little fruit red and mandarin yel- 
low color pastes; add 4 tablespoonf uls of noyau and 2 
ounces of finely chopped candied ginger and freeze. A 
well known r//(f/"also adds 4 tablespoonf uls of rum. 

Claret Ice 

1 quart of claret 4 oranges 

4 lemons 

Sweeten to taste and freeze. Excellent 

Mrs. H. K. L. WHITNEY. 

Pineapple Ice No. 1 

1 cup of grated pineapple 1 pint of sugar 
1 quirt of water (scant) 1 lemon 

1 orange 

Freeze a little, then add the whites of 2 eggs, beaten 

to a stiff froth. 

Mrs. GREGORY. 

Pineapple Ice No. 2 

Will Serve Twenty-Jive Persons. 

1 quart can of grated pine- 14^ pounds of sugar 
apple Whites of 4 eggs 

Boil the pineapple about fifteen minutes in 1 pint of 
water. When it commences to boil add the sugar. 
After removing from the stove add 1 quart of water. 
When cold add the eggs and freeze. 

Mrs. M. F. backus. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

1 can grated pineapple 2 lemons, juice and pulp 

1 cup sugar 1 tables poonful gelatine 

1 large cup water White of 1 eg^ 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 207 

Boil sugar in a little of the water; dissolve gelatine; 
mix ingredients together; cool and freeze. Add well- 
beaten white of egg when about half frozen. 

Mrs. CORWIN S. SHANK. 

Turkish Sherbet 

Make a very thick syrup of 2 cups of sugar and | 
cup of water. While hot add the juice from a jar of pre- 
served peaches (or any preferred fruit); add a little 
lemon or orange juice. When ready to serve, till the 
glass half full of shaved ice and till with the sherbet, 
which pours thickly. 

Orange Sherbet 

IViV/ Serve Ten People. 
Take 1 pint of sugar, pour over it 1 x^int of boiling 
water and let it boil just twenty minutes (no longer); 
then take it off. pour into an earthen dish and add the 
juice of 4 oranges and 2 lemons. Set away to cool, and 
when ready for freezer add 1 pint cold water and the 
whites of 2 eggs well beaten. 

Mrs. J. B. BROWN. 

Leiiiou Sherbet 

(From Table Talk.) 

1 quart milk 1 pint sugar 

Juice of 4 lemons 

Stir together and freeze as ice cream; L pint of cream 
is an improvement. 

Mint Sorbet 

2 lemons 1 pint boiling water 
1 cup sugar White of 1 egg 

Mint 

Pare the yellow rind from the lemons, taking care 
to get none of the white; put this into a bowl with a 
good handful of mint which has been well bruised with 



208 CLEVER COOKING 

the sugar, add the boiling water and let staad several 
hours covered close. Taste to see that the flavor of mint 
is strong enough, as the stalks vary in size and strength. 
Add the lemon juice and strain into the freezer and 
fre.eze slightly; it should almost pour. Just before serv- 
ing add the stiffly beaten white of ^^^ and beat in well. 
The glasses in which it is to be served should be well 
chilled. Very nice as a substitute for mint sauce with 
spring lamb. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Cranberry Sorbet 

1 pint of cranberry juice 1 pound of sugar 
1 pint of boiling water Juice of 1 lemon 

Boil the sugar and water together forfive minutes, when 

cool add the juice of the cranberries and lemon, strain 

and freeze ten minutes. If more sugar is required, add 

it before straining and stir till dissolved. At serving 

time add the white of an q^^ beaten stiff, and beat until 

it is all light and frothy and will almost pour. Serve 

in glasses, with roast turkey, instead of cranberry jelly 

or sauce. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Punch 

Enough fo) Seventy -Jive People. 

1 dozen bottles of Hock 2 dozen oranges 

2 dozen lemons 1 pint of Santa Cruz rum 

3 cans of pineapple 

To every bowlful of punch add 1 bottle of cham- 
pagne, if wanted extra fine. Good zvithout champagne. 

Mrs. E. a. STROUT. 

Punch 

Pare very thin the yellow rind of 12 large lemons. 
Put 2 pounds of sugar in a large bowl; squeeze over it 
the juice of the lemons and add 1 quart of best rum and 
I pint of brandy; cover this mixture and let stand two 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 209 

or three hours; add ^ pint of wine (sherry or Madeira). 
Half an hour before the punch is to be served, boil the 
yellow rind of the lemons in 1 quart of water, throwing 
in 6 teaspoonfuls of the best green tea, just before tak- 
ing from the fire. Strain this liquor into the punch and 

add 2 quarts of boiling water. 

Mrs. H. C. henry. 

" Ne Plus Ultra " Punch 

For Small Punch Bowl. 
Enough for Ten People. 

1 quart of uncolored Japan 1 pint of Reisling wine 
tea (cold) 3 wineglassfuls of brandy 

H wineglassfuls of Jamaica \ wineglassf ul of Mares- 
rum chino 

^ wineglassf ul of Grenadine 1 lemon (juice only) 
1 small cup of sugar 

Let stand not less than six hours before using. 
When ready to serve add : 

1 sliced oransre i sliced pineapple 

1 pint of champagne 

Serve with large lump of ice in bowl. If too strong 

add cold tea. 

Mr. homer F. NORTON. 

Koiuaiue 

Boil together 1 quart of water and 1 pint of sugar for 
half an hour; add the juice of 6 lemons and 1 orange, 
strain and set away to cool. Then prepare the follow- 
ing: Boil 1 gill of water and 1 of sugar eighteen min- 
utes. While the syrup is cooking, beat the whites of 4 
eggs very stiff and into these pour the hot syrup very 
slowly, beating all the time, and continue to beat a few 
minutes after it is all in. Set this away to cool. Place 
the first mixture in the freezer and freeze by turning it 
all the time for twenty minutes. Then take off the 
cover, remove the beater and add 1 gill of sherry, 2 
tablespoonfuls Jamaica rum and the meringue, mixing 
this well with a spoon into the frozen mixture. Cover 

C. C.-14 



210 CLEVER COOKING 

and set away until time to serve. Serve in punch 
glasses as a course between roast and entrees. 

Mrs. potter palmer. 
(In the Columbian Exposition Cook Bpok.) 

Christmas Pimcli 

Boil 1 pound of sugar and 1 quart of water together 
for live minutes; add the grated rind of 2 lemons and 4 
oranges; boil ten minutes; strain and add 1 quart of cold 
water and some cracked ice. Strain in the juice of the 
lemons and oranges and add 1 gill of candied cherries 
cut in halves, 24 w^hite grapes split, a few pieces of pine- 
apple and 1 large banana, sliced. Add 1 quart of claret. 

Mrs. C. E. SHEPARD. 

Christmas Egg-Nog 

12 eggs 1 glass brandy 

1 glass whiskey 3 pints cream 

Beat the eggs in the punch bowl till very light; stir 
in as much white sugar as they will dissolve, and pour in 
the brandy very gradually to cook the eggs; then add the 
whiskey, the cream, which may be whipped slightly, and 
1 nutmeg grated. The nutmeg may be omitted if not 

liked. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Bonanza Punch 

Will Serve Seventy-Five Persons. 

5 quarts water 4^ pounds sugar 

Juice of 12 lemons 3 oranges 

1 can pineapple \ pint gin 

1 pint white wine 

Grate the rinds of 3 lemons and 2 oranges into a 
bowl with the juice of all; put 2 quarts water, 2 pounds 
sugar and juice of the pineapple on the lire and make a 
hot syrup of it; then pour this on the grated rinds and 
juices to draw the flavor. Chop the pineapple, add to 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 211 

the mixture and strain all into the freezer; add remain- 
der of sugar, water and the liquors and freeze. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Koiiiau Punch 

1 quart lemon ice \ pint brandy 

\ pint Jamaica rum 1 gill sherry 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Have the ice frozen hard. Just before wanted for 
serving, stir in the liquors and beat hard. Add the 
stiffly beaten eggs last. The addition of \ pint of cham- 
pagne is an improvement. This must be frothy and 
not frozen very hard; should almost pour. 



212 CLMVJBR COOKINO 



A FRENCH DINNER 



The bill of fare for dinner parties as ordinarily 
served in England and the United States is not at all in 
the French style. It is the French say "alaRusse. " 
though it is common to speak of the course dinner in 
this country as in the French style. 

A true French bill of fare for a family, or for inti- 
mate friends is arranged as follows: 

ARRANGEMENT OF A DINNER FOR EIGHT PERSONS. 

First Service or Course. 
Soup. Releve. Entrees, and Hors d'Oeuvres. 

Soup, in the middle of the table. As soon as it is 
served, the soup tureen is to be removed and replaced 
by the releve, which is generally the garnished soup 
meat, or other piece of boiled meat. 

Two or four eatees, four cold hors d'oeuvres. The 
hors d'oeuvres are put on the table when the cloth is 
laid. 

Second Service or Course. 
Roasts. Entremets. 

The first course having been removed, the roast is 
placed in the center, flanked by the entremets. 

Third Service or Course. 
Dessort, Fruits or Lig-ht Pasti-ies. 

Entrees are detiued as dishes of meat, game, fowl or 
tish ordinarily served with sauces. 

Hors d'oeuvres are such as anchovies, sardines, 
olives, pickles, etc. 

Entx'emets are composed of warm or cold dishes, 



A FBENCH DINNER 213 

vegetables, fish, creams, cold pastry, eggs in any style, 
beignets, puddings, or other sugared dishes. 

Dessert includes cheese, compotes, fancy cakes, con- 
fectionery. 

MENU. 

SOUP 
Au Gourmet 
HORS D'OEUVRES ENTREES 

Bouilli avec garniture de raifort Ris au Blanc 

Filets de Concoml/re Escargots a la Bourguignonne 

Canape d'Ancliois Sales Filet de Sole a la Horly 

Olives Radis Roses Ragout a la Financiere 

ROT 
Canards au Pere Douillet 

ENTREMETS 

Truffes a la Calonne Croquettes de Riz 

Macedoine de Legumes Tot fait Suisse 

Beignets de Pommes a la Bourgeoise 

DESSERT 

Fromage a la Creme Darioles 

Tal mouses a la Fa^on de Saint Denis Marrons au Cai'omels 

Wines. 

The service of wines for such a dinner as the fore- 
going is about as follows: Before dinner a glass of 
vermouth or absinthe is offered sometimes. 

With the oysters, or other hors d'oeuvres Chablis, 
Sauterne or Barsac. After the soup Madeira or dry 
sherry, which is also offered after the first or second 
courses. 

With the entrees red Bordeaux, a St. Estephe or the 
like. 

With the second course is served the finer grades of 
Burgundy or Bordeaux like Beaune, Chateau Giscourt, 
Clos Vongeot, Chamber tin. Chateau Laflte, Margant, 
Hermitage. 

With the dessert, champagne. 

Mrs. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



214 



CLEVER COOKING 





PURITY 

ACCURACY 
-— RELIABILITY 

STEWART & HOLMES DRUG CO. 

SEATTLE 

(Associate Houses at Tacoma and Walla Walla,) 

We'Never Sleep. 

We Are Open All Night. 

We Have a Seat for You When Down Town. 

If You Are From Out-of-Town We WiirBe Glad 

to Care for Your Wraps and Parcels. 
We Can Supply You With a Postage Stamp 
We Would Like to Prepare Your Prescriptions. 

IN ALL THINGS WE WILL 
SERVE YOU FAITHFULLY. 

Goods Oelivered Anfwiiere in llie Ciff, Phone Main 35 



GAKES 



"Aye, to the leavening, but here's yet in the word hereafter 
the kneading, the making of the cake, the heating of the oven, and 
the baking. Nay, you must stay the cooling, too, or you may 
chance to burn your mouth." 



Delicate Cake No. 1 

^ cup butter and 2 cups sugar worked together; add 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 to 2^ cups flour, 1^ teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder, whites of 4 eggs. This recipe can be used 
for either loaf or layer cake. 

LILY GUION. 

Delicate Cake No. 2 

Delicious. 

2 cups powdered sugar ^ cup butter 
5 eggs (whites) 1 cup milk 

3 cups flour 1 teaspoonful cream tartar 

i teaspoonful soda 

Filling. 

1 cup sweet cream whipped stiff 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar 

i cup grated cocoanut stirred in lightly at the last 

1 teaspoonful rose water 

A very nice cake, but must be eaten soon after it is 

made. 

Mrs. F. a. buck. 

(215) 



216 CLEVER COOKING 



Delicate Cake No. 3 

1 cup cornstarch 1 cup butter 

2 cups sugar 1 cup sweet milk 

2 cui:)s flour (unsifted when 7 eggs (whites only) 

measured) 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1 teaspoonf ul lemon extract der 

Rub butter and sugar to a cream, add milk, then 
flour and cornstarch, into which you have sifted the bak- 
ing powder; then the whites of eggs, then flavoring. 

Mrs. M. T. summers (White House Cook Book). 

White Cake No. 1 

2 cups flour f cup butter 

li cups pulverized sugar 1 teaspoonful yeast powder 
Whites of 6 eggs 

Mix butter and flour together to a smooth paste; 

beat eggs and sugar together, then mix and bake. 

Almond flavoring. 

Mrs. a. M. brooks. 

White Cake No. 2 

H cupfuls of sugar 2| cupfuls of sifted flour 

t cupful of butter Whites of 5 eggs 

i cupful of corn starch 2 teaspoonfuls of Cretata 

t (scant) cup of milk baking jDowder 

1 teaspoonful of extract 

Work the sugar and butter to a cream; add the eggs 
beaten stiff ; stir and beat until light as foam, then add 
^ cup of corn starch dissolved in a little sweet milk. 
Stir in not quite f cup of sweet milk. Put 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of Cretata baking powder into 2^ cups of sifted 
flour, sift twice and add to the above. One teaspoonful 
of extract completes a delicious cake, which is im- 
proved by being kept three or four days. 

Mrs. G. W. BOARDMAN. 

Gold Cake 

Yolks of 8 eggs ^ cup of milk 

2 cups of sugar 34^ cups of flour 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking ^ cup of butter (scant) 
powder 

Mrs. BENTON. 



CAKES 217 



Gold Cake 



1| cups of sugar i cup of milk 

f cup of butter 2i cups of flour 

1 small teaspoonf ul of soda 2 small teaspooafuls of 

Yolks of 8 eggs cream of tartar 

May be flavored with vanilla or lemon; or | cup of 

nuts and ^ cup of raisins may be used. A good spice 

cake is made by adding 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, 

1 tablespoonful of mixed spices and a cup of seeded 

raisins. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Silver Cake 

Whites of 8 eggs 1 cup of milk 

2 level cups of sugar 3j cups of flour 

^ cup of butter 1 tablespoonful of baking 

Flavoring powder 

Mrs. BENTON. 
Silver Cake No. 2 



1 cup of butter 


2 cups of sugar 


3i cups of flour 


1 cup of milk 


i teaspoonful of soda 


1 teaspoonful of cream of 


Whites of 8 eggs 


tartar 



Bitter almonds 

Bake in sheets or layers. Also makes a loaf cake by 
adding candied cherries, citron, figs, angelica and a few 
blanched and chopped almonds. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Lady Cake 

Delicious. 

1 cup of butter 2 cups of powdered sugar 

3 cups of flour I cup of thin sweet cream 

Whites of 10 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of 
1 teaspoonful of soda tartar in flour 

In mixing put the butter and sugar together; beat 
until light; then add cream and about two-thirds of the 
whites; mix well; then add flour and beat until very 



218 CLEVER COOKING 

light; then soda which Las been dissolved in part of 
the cream; flavor with bitter almond; add the remainder 
of whites. In baking, after it has raised sufiiciently, 
make the stove a trifle hotter so as to stiffen it quickly. 

Mrs. F. a. buck. 

Bride Cake 

1 pound of white sugar Whites of 16 eggs beaten to 

^ pound butter a stiff froth 

i pound of flour 1 teaspoonf ul of essence 

1 teaspoonful of baking of rose 
powder 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream; add eggs and beat 
five minutes; then add flour in which is the baking 
powder; then add essence. Bake in buttered tins in a 
moderate oven. This is a most dainty cake. 

Mrs. spencer. 

Whipped Cream Cake 

Make sponge cake; bake half an inch thick in jelly 

pans and let them get perfectly cool. Take ^ pint of 

thickest cream, beat until it looks like ice cream, make 

very sweet and flavor with vanilla. Blanch and chop 1 

pound of almonds, stir into cream, and put very thick 

between each layer; the top may be iced. It is a queen 

of cakes. 

Mrs. S. L. CRAWFORD. 

Spoiigre Cake No. 1 

12 eggs Weight of 9 in sugar 

Weight of 6 in flour Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

After weighing the sugar and flour, separate the 
eggs; beat the yolks and sugar together until verylight; 
now add the juice and rind of the lemon. Beat the 
wiiites very stiff, then add to the sugar and yolks. 
Beat very hard; add the flour, a very little at a time; 
stir slowly and pour into a greased cakepan. 

Mrs. H. C. henry. 



CAKES 219 

Sponge Cake No. 2 

6 eggs 2 teacups sugar 

2 teacups tiour 1 large spoonful water 

1 large spoonful flavoring 

Beat yolks light; add sugar, water and flavoring, and 
beat again; then add beaten whites and beat well to- 
gether; then stir in flour. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven in long pan; frost and mark into squares. 

Mrs. W. H. DE WOLP. 

Sponge Cake No. 3 

1 pint sugar | tumbler cold water (small 

1 pint of flour tumbler) 

6 eggs 

Beat yolks, sugar and half the water, then add re- 
mainder of water and beat again. Beat the whites stiff 
and add them with the flour gradually, being careful not 
to stir more than enough to mix thoroughly and quickly. 
Put in flavoring and a pinch of salt before the whites 
and flour. 

Cream for lliis Cake if Baled in Layers. 

Scald 1 tumbler of milk in double boiler, stir in 1 
tablespoonful sugar and a pinch of salt. Wet 1 table- 
spoonful cornstarch with a little cold milk; add to the 
milk and stir till it thickens; then pour onto the beaten 
whites of two eggs, flavor, put between two layers. 
Mrs. GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 

Scripture Cake 

1 cup of dtd/er — Judges, v, 25 

3 cups of sugar — Jeremiah, vi, 20 

4 cups ol flour — I Kings, iv, 24 

2 cups of raisins — I Samuel, xxx, 12 

1 cup of thinly sliced vielo7i (citron) — Numbers, xi, 5 

1 cup of almonds — Genesis, iii, 11 

1 cup of milk — Judges, v, 21 

6 eggs — Isaiah, x, 14 

A pinch of salt — Leviticus, ii, 13 

Spices to taste — I Kings, x, 10 

Mix with the flour 2 tablespoonfuls of the modern 
ingredient called bakitig powder. 

Mrs. J. N. GILMER. 



220 CLEVER COOKING 



Episcopal Cake 

^ pound of flour ^ pound of powdered sugar 

4 eggs 

Beat eggs for ten minutes, add sugar and beat ten 
minutes more; then add flour and beat ten minutes 
longer. Butter a mould and bake an hour or longer. 

Mrs. HENDERSON. 

Madeira Calie 

1 cup of sugar 1| cups of flour 

^ cup of butter ^ cup of sweet milk 

^ teaspoonful of soda 1 teaspoonful of cream of 

2 eggs tartar 

Mrs. HENDERSON. 



Blacli Chocolate Cake 

2 cups of sugar t cup of butter 

Yolks of 5 eggs Whites of 2 eggs 

^ cake of chocolate (i^) 1 cup of sour milk 

1 teaspoonful of soda 2^ cups of flour 

Cream the butter and sugar; mix the soda with the 
flour; melt the chocolate over the top of the teakettle; 
add whites of eggs last. 

FUling. 

1 pound of sugar 1 cup of water 

Whites of 3 eggs i cake of chocolate (i ttj) 

1 cocoanut grated 

Boil sugar, water and chocolate until quite thick. 
Pour over the beaten whites, and add the cocoanut. 

Mrs. SHEPARD. 



"Maud S." Cake 

1| cups of coffee sugar ^ (scant) cup of butter 

^ cup of milk i cup of flour 

3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream; add milk and 
flour, and then the eggs. Into this mixture stir a choco- 
late custard made as follows: 



CAKES 221 

8 tablespoonfuls of Baker's chocolate, grated 
5 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar 
i cup of milk 

Cook until it thickens a little and beat until cool. 
Stir the custard thoroughly into the cake mixture and 
add : 

li cups of flour 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

li teaspoonfuls of vanilla powder 

Bake in a moderately hot oven in three layers. Put 
boiled icing between the layers. 

Mrs. J. D. LOWMAN. 

Devil Cake 

1 cup brown sugar j cup milk 

1 cup granulated chocolate 

Put together in small saucepan, set over the tea- 
kettle and stir until perfectly dissolved; then set aside 
to cool. When cool stir into the cake. 

Cake. 

1 cup brown sugar i cup butter (small) 

^ cup milk 2 cups flour 

Yolks of 3 eggs 1 teaspoonful soda, sifted 
Vanilla with the flour 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs whole 
and beat till A^ery light and creamy; add the milk gradu- 
ally, and the flour; beat thoroughly and quickly; add the 
chocolate and flavoring, and bake in layers or sheet. 
Frost with chocolate frosting. Difficult, but very good. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Pork Cake 

1 pound salt pork i pint water 

1 cup molasses 2 cups sugar 

3 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls soda 

1 pound raisins 44^ cups flour 

The pork must be chopped fine and boiled two min- 
utes in k pint water. Flavor with cloves, cinnamon and 

nutmeg to suit the taste. 

BESSIE CARKEEK. 



222 CLEVER COOKING 

Orange Cake 

Yolks of 5 eggs, whites of ^ cup water 

3, beaten separately 1 orange 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

3 cups flour der 

Mix the yolks of eggs and sugar, and add the water; 
then the whites, with the orange juice and half the rind, 
grated; lastly the flour and baking powder. 

Filling. 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs (whites only) 

1 orange \ cup water 

Boil the water and sugar a little longer than for or- 
dinary icing; pour slowly over the beaten whites, beat- 
ing constantly. When nearly cold, add the juice of the 
orange and half the grated peel. 

Mrs. HELEN M. HUNT. 

Orange Cake No 2 

2 cups brown sugar 1 cup butter 

1 cup milk 4 cups flour 

4 eggs beaten separately 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla der 

Cream butter and sugar; add yolks; then 2 cups of 
flour and the milk; mix well; then add balance of flour 
with baking powder, and last the vanilla and whites of 
eggs beaten to a stifl" froth. 

Fillii^g. 
Grate rinds of 3 oranges and 1 lemon, and to that add 
the juice of the fruit and 3 cups of pulverized sugar. 

Mrs. R. C. WASHBURN. 

Puff Cake 

3 eggs 2 cups sugar 
3 cui^s flour It cups milk 

Batter size of an egg 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar 

Flavor with lemon 

Rub butter and sugar well together; add eggs well 
beaten, 1 cup of milk and 2 cups of flour. Beat light; 
now add the last cup of flour with the cream of tartar 



CAKES 223 

and lastly i cup of milk with soda; flavor. Bake in 

two tins in a quick oven. This will seem very thin, but 

do not add any more flour, or it will not puff as it 

should. 

Mrs. F. a. buck. 

Aliiioncl Cake 

i cup of butter (scant) li cups of pulverized sugar 

i cup of milk li cups of flour 

14^ teaspoon fuls of baking ^ cupof corn starch (scant) 

powder Whites of 8 eggs 

Fillhig. 

1 cup of cream, whipped stiff 

1 tablespoonf ul of pulverized sugar 

1 pound of almonds, blanched and chopped 

Mrs. CHARLES STIMSON. 

French Alinoucl Cake 

6 ounces of sweet almonds 14 eggs 

3 ounces of bitter almonds 1 pound of powdered sugar 

3 ounces of sifted and dried 12 drops of lemon extract 
flour 

Blanch and dry the almonds and pound in a mortar 

both bitter and sweet ones, adding a little rose water 

occasionally. This should be done the day before 

making cake. Beat the yolks of eggs till thick, add 

sugar gradually, beating hard, and the whites of the 

eggs, beaten till stiff, slowly and carefully; stir in flour 

as lightly as possible. Bake in a quick, even, oven and 

cool on a sieve. 

Mrs. gilbert S. MEEM. 



Cream Cake 

li teacups of sugar i cup of butter 

5 eggs, beaten separately t cream 

1 teaspoonful of baking 2 cups of flour 
powder 



Bake in a moderate oven. 



Mrs. O. T. NUTT. 



224 CLEVER COOKING 



Imperial Cake 

1 pound of sugar 1 pound of flour 

^ jwund of butter 10 eggs 

1 pound of almonds, 4 pound of citron 

blanched and cut tine ^ pound of raisins 

Rind and juice of 1 lemon 1 nutmeg 

This is very delicious and will keep for months. 

Mrs. S. .J. HOWELL. 



Very Kicli Fruit Cake No. 1 

li pounds brown sugar 1 pound butter 

8 eggs well beaten 1 pound flour 

Juice and rind 2 lemons 1 teaspoonf ul soda 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar 1 nutmeg, grated 

1 tablespoonf ul of ground 1 tablespoonful cinnamon 

cloves 1 cup jelly or preserve syrup 

2 pounds raisins, stoned 1 pound currants 

and chopped f pound citron, sliced 

Roll fruit in flour; mix with the hands. Makes three 
loaves. Bake two and one-half hours in a moderate 
oven; paper the pans with thick paper. 

Mrs. M. H. young. 

This is an old Massachusetts recipe, and better than 
wedding cake, we think. 



Fruit Cake No. 2 

English. 

1 pound flour 1 pound sugar 

1 pound butter 4 pounds raisins (stoned) 

2 pounds currants | pint brandy 
L pound citron 12 eggs 

1 ounce nutmeg 1 teaspoonful cloves 

1 cup molasses 

Abuond Paste for Top. 

^ ounce gelatine 3 pounds powdered almonds 

3 wineglasses brandy 1 pound sugar 

Dissolve gelatine in | pint of water; add almonds 
and sugar, then brandy; spread on cake. 

Mrs. W. VAUGHAN. 



CAKES 225 



Tenuesse Fruit Cake 



2 teacupfuls of soft, well 4 level teacupsfuls sifted 

packed butter flour 

2i cups brown sugar 12 eggs 

2 pounds raisins 1 pound citron 

1 pound currants 4^ pound almonds 

1 pound tigs 1 grated cocoanut 

i pound pecans 1 wineglassful brandy 

1 pint whiskey 1 tablespoonful allspice 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon 1 teaspoonful cloves 

1 tablespoonful nutmeg 1 teaspoonful ginger 

Soak spices in the brandy and raisins in the wiiiskey 
all night. Cream butter and yolks of eggs, then add 
sugar, then flour, then fruit and almonds and pecans, 
then well-beaten whites of eggs, and last the cocoanut. 
Bake four hours. 

Mrs. L. g. BANNARD. 

WJiite Fruit Cake 

1 cup of butter 2 cups of sugar 

1| cups of flour 1 pound of raisins 

1 pound of figs 1 pound of dates 

1 pound of blanched al- \ pound of chopped citron 

monds Whites of 8 eggs 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 

Cream the butter and sugar, then add the whites of 
the eggs and then the flour; add the fruit the last thing 
mixed with part of the flour. The fruit should be 
chopped very fine. This makes a very large cake and 
requires a long time to bake — about one and three- 
fourths or two hours. Bake slowly and cover with 
paper if it seems to brown too fast. 

Mrs. albert T. TIMMERMAN. 

Nut Cake No. 1 

Cream together \ cup of sugar and 2 cups of butter; 
add t cup of sweet milk, whites of 4 eggs well beaten. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 1 teaspoonful of va- 
nilla, 3 cups of flour and 1 cup of walnuts chopped very 
fine. Mix thoroughly together, and bake in loaf. This 

will keep well several da3''s. 

Mrs. D. B. lewis. 



226 CLEVER COOKING 



Nut Cake No. 2 

1 cup of sugar | cup of chopped walnuts 

1 heaping cup of flour 1 small teaspoonful of 
3 tablespoon tills of butter cream of tartar 

^ teaspoonful of soda 2 tablespoonfuls of milk 



3 eggs 



Caramel Cake 



Mrs. GREGORY. 



i cup of butter Whites of 4 eggs 

1| cups of sugar 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

1 cup of milk powder 

2 cups of flour 

Bake in layers, and bake with caramel frosting. 

Mrs. M. J. CARTER. 



My Motlier'.s Cup Cake 

f cup of butter 2^ cups of jDowdered sugar 

3 cups of flour (well sifted) 4 eggs 

1 cup of sweet milk 1 small teaspoonful of soda 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Bake slowly, as the quality of this cake depends 
greatly upon careful baking. 

Mrs. MARY M. MILLER. 



Jelly Roll 

Will Afake Tzuo Cakes. 

12 eggs 1 pound powdered sugar 

I pound flour 

Beat the yolks, stir in the sugar, then the flour, and 
lastly the beaten whites. Spread to the thickness of 
half an inch in papered ungreased pans, and bake. 
When done remove from oven, turn out, moisted with 
hot water to remove jiaper, spread with jelly and roll 
up in a napkin or towel. Roll as quickly as possible 
after the cake leaves the oven. 

Mrs C. p. DAM. 



CAKES 227 



Cheap Cake 

1 cup white sugar Scant i cup butter 
i cup milk 1^ cups flour 

2 eggs 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

^ teaspoonful flavoring extract 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add milk, then 
eggs well beaten, then flour and baking powder mixed 
together, and last flavoring extract. Bake in ordinary 
cake tins in hot oven. 

iMRS LATIMER. 



Carraway Seed Cake 

i cup butter 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 2 level cups flour 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- Pinch salt 

der 2 tablespoonfuls carraway 

seeds 

Stir butter and sugar together, add the 2 beaten 
eggs; then add flour, with baking powder sifted through 
it; salt and carraway seeds. Bake in moderate oven 
fifty minutes. 

Mrs. M. p. ZINDORF. 

Show Drop.s 

1 cup butter 2 cups sugar 

1 small cup milk 3 full cups prepared flour 

Whites of 5 eggs 

Flavor with vanilla and nutmeg. Bake in small 
round tins. 

Mrs. HATFIELD. 

Good Spice Cake No. 1 

^ cup sugar i cup butter 

2 eggs i cup sour cream 

2 cups sifted flour h cup New Orleans molasses 

1 scant teaspoonful soda i teaspoonful ginger 

^ teaspoonful cinnamon Grated rind of 1 lemon 

and nutmeg 1 cupful seeded raisins 

Mrs. J. D. CURTIS. 



228 CLEVER COOKING 



Spice Cake No. 2 

1 egg f cup each sugar, molasses 

1 cujD milk and butter 

2^ cups flour (generous) 1 teaspoonf ul soda 
1 tablespoonf ul lemon juice 1 teaspoonf ul cream tartar 
or vinegar 1 cup seeded raisins 

2 tablespoonfuls mixed spices 

Beat the egg thoroughly, add sugar and beat again; 
then add the molasses, the butter melted, but not hot; 
spices and milk. Sift flour, soda and cream tartar to- 
gether, and mix in well; then lemon juice and the raisins 
well flavored. This makes two loaves in small bread 
tins. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Clove Cake 

3 cups sugar * 4 eggs 

^ cup butter 1 teaspoonful soda 

4 cups flour 1 teaspoonful cloves 

1 cup milk 

Mrs. S. W. CLARK. 

Blackberry Cake 

1 cup of sugar 4 tablespoonfuls of sour, 

f cup of butter milk 

li cups of flour 4 eggs 

1 cup of stewed blackber- 1 teaspoonful of soda 
ries (wild berries preferred) 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well 

beaten, the milk and soda, then the berries and lastly 

the flour. Bake in a loaf forty minutes, in a moderate 

oven, and ice with boiled icing, or bake in two layers 

with icing between. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 

Apple Cake 

1 cup of butter 3 cups of dried apples soaked 

2 cups of sugar over night, chopped fine 

1 cup of milk and stewed two hours 

2 eggs in 2 cups of molasses ; 
2 toaspoonfuls of soda cooled before putting 

5 cups of flour into cake 
2 cups of raisins Spices 



CAKES 229 

Beat butter and sugar to cream and add milk, in 

which dissolve the soda. Lastly add raisins and apples 

and spices of all kinds. 

Mrs. C. J. SMITH. 

Pound Cake 

I cups of butter 1 cup of flour 

1 cup of sugar 5 eggs 

Stir butter, sugar, yolks of 5 and whites of 2 eggs 

together, then the 3 whites beaten stiff; add the flour 

last and beat till light and spongy. No flavoring. Bake 

very carefully. 

Mrs. GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 

Poi'tsmoutli Pound Cake 

1 pound of butter 1 pound of sugar 

1 pound of Hour, weighed 10 eggs 

after sifting 1 teaspoonful of lemon 
i teaspoonful of mace juice 

Beat the butter to a smooth cream; add the sugar 
gradually; beat very light for about twenty minutes. 
Break in 1 q^^ at a time, beating five minutes between 
each one, until all are used. This is the best pound 
cake receipt, but it can be spoiled by not beating suffi- 
ciently. Bake in loaf pans lined with greased paper, in 
a moderate oven for fifty minutes. 

Mrs. GEORGE H. HEILBRON. 

Our Improved Sunshine Cake 

Whites of 7 small fresh eggs Yolks of 5 eggs 

1 cup of granulated sugar | cup of flour 

^ teaspoonful of cream of A pinch of salt 
tartar 

Sift, measure and set aside flour and sugar. Beat 
yolks of eggs thoroughly. Beat whites about half, add 
cream of tartar and beat until very, ^-^r;' stiff; stir in 
sugar lightly, then beaten yolks thoroughly, then add 
flour. Put in tube pan and in the oven at once. Will 
bake in thirty-five to fifty minutes. 

Mrs. ROBERT PALMER. 



230 CLEVER COOKING 

Simsliine ('ake No. 1 

Whites of 11 egf^s Yolks of 6 eggs 

14- cups of fine granulated 1 cup of flour, measured 

sugar ■ after sifting once 

1 teaspoonful of cream of Flavoring 

tartar 

Sift sugar and flour as in angel cake; whip the 

whites to a stiff froth and gradually sift in the sugar; 

add the well beaten yolks and the flour and cream of 

tartar, and flavoring. Mix quickly and thoroughly and 

bake fifty minutes in a slow oven. In making angel 

cake or sunshine cake use a wire egg beater. Do not 

stir the sugar or flour in the beaten whites, but whip 

them in lightly with the egg beater and the cake will 

never be tough. 

Mrs. .1. D. CURTIS. 

Sunshine (Jake No. 2 

Whites of 11 eggs 12 ounces granulated sugar 

Yolks of 6 eggs Peel of 14 oranges (grated) 

3 teaspoonfuls orange juice 6 ounces flour (sifted three 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar times) 

Add the sugar to the beaten whites; beat yolks and 
orange peel and juice; add this to the whites, then stir 
in gradually the flour, into which the cream tartar has 
been put. Bake fifty minutes. 

Mrs. H. R. CLISE. 

Boiletl Icing 

1 c,\x\) powdered sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls boiling water 

Boil sugar and water (without stirring) till it hairs, 
and pour in a thin stream onto beaten eggs, stirring all 
the time. Beat till it creams; add flavoring. 

Mrs. BENTON. 

Soft Icing: 

Dissolve 1 tablespoonful of gelatine in \ cup of boil- 
ing water, flavored with rind of lemon. Beat in 10 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and juice of 1 lemon, 

Mrs. ISAAC H. JENNINGS. 



CAKES 231 



Maple Sugar Frosting 

^ pound maple sugar 1 cup granulated sugar 

Enough water to melt 

Boil sugar till it strings from spoon, then pour over 
the whites of 2 eggs and beat with Dover beater. Do 
not stir the sugar while cooking. 

Frosting 

White of 1 egg (not beaten) 2 tables poonfuls ice water 
Juice of w lemon 

Stir in powdered sugar until stiff enough to spread 
on cake; add \ teaspoonful of vanilla the last thing. 
This receipe will do for two cakes. 

Mrs. H. C. henry. 

Caramel Icing- 

3 cups brown sugar 1 cup milk 

^ cup butter 1 tablespoonful vanilla and 

caramel 
Boil slowly until quite thick. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 

Caramel Frosting 

1 cup of powdered sugar 1 cup of cream 

I cup of butter 1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

Boil sugar, cream and butter together until it hairs, 

stirring only as much as will keep it from sticking; take 

from the fire and beat till it is thick and creamy, and 

will spread without running; add vanilla and spread on 

the cake. 

Mrs. KICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Caramel Filling 

1 cup of cream i cup of butter 

1 cup of brown or maple Flavor with vanilla 
sugar 

Boil until thick. Set on ice and stir until cold. 

Mrs B. W. baker. 



CLEVER COOKIAO 



Chocolate Filling- No. 1 

8 tables poonfuls of choco- ^ cup of milk 
late 14 cups of sugar 

Melt chocolate and stir sugar and milk well together. 
Boil ten minutes, and put on large platter and stir until 
cold enough to put on cake. 

Mrs. w. v. rinehart, .ir. 

I'liocolate Filling No. 2 

5 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, with enough 

cream or milk to wet it 
1 cup of sugar 
1 egg, well beaten 

Stir the ingredients over the tire; let them cool a few 
minutes, 'and flavor with vanilla. Spread on cake when 
cool. 

Mrs. lewis H. SULLIVAN. 

Chocolate Frosting 

1 cup of sugar 1 bar of chocolate 

2 tablespoonfuls of boiling 1 egg (white only) 

water Vanilla 

Grate the chocolate; put in a saucepan with one- third 
of the sugar; add the remainder of the sugar to the 
white of egg and stir, not beat, until mixed; add the 
boiling water to the chocolate and sugar and boil till 
smooth and glossy. Pour this gradually upon the egg 
and stir till a little cool. Flavor well with vanilla and 
spread on the cake. It will seem thin, but will harden. 
A half cup of nuts; almonds, walnuts or pecans chopped 
rather coarse, added, makes a change and is delicious. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Fruit Fondant Filling- 
Make one rule of corked fondant as for candy. (See 
rule for candy.) Place half the fondant in a kettle and 
heat over steam until melted, then add 14^ cups of 
chopped tigs, dates, seeded raisins and citron. Spread 



CAKES 233 

between layers. Ice the cake with the other cup of 

fondant melted as above. 

S. E. W. 

Almond. Iciug 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs until foamy; then sift in 
gradually 1 cupful of powdered sugar, beating until 
glossy and so firm that it can be cut with a knife. Take 
\ pound of almond paste and work into it 1 or 2 whites 
of eggs, unbeaten, until soft enough to be mixed with 
the icing. Beat well together and it is ready for use. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

(From Table Talk.) 

Aliiioucl Filling- 

1 cup sour cream 1 cup sugar 

1 cup blanched almonds chopped fine. 

Marsliinallow Filling- No. 1 

Make a boiled icing, spread on cake when warm; then 
cut mar shmal lows in halves and stick on the frosting; 
cover this with blanched almonds, chopped, and cover 
again with frosting. Ice top layer of cake. 

Mrs. M. J. CARTER. 

Marshmallow Filling No. 2 

1 pint cream, whipped stiff \ pound marshmallows 

Cut the marshmallows into small pieces and sprinkle 
on ihe cream, which is spread between the layers. 

Marshmallow Filling No. 3 

Make boiled frosting, and when nearly boiled, drop 
the marshmallows into the syrup and let them melt. 
Then beat into the whites of 2 eggs (which have first 
been beaten to a froth), and continue beating the mix- 
ture until cold; then spread between layers. 

Mrs. R. W. EMMONS. 
(From Miss Emma Libby, Port Townsend.) 



234 CLEVER COOKING 



Lemon Filling 

1 cup sugar Grated rind and juice of 1 

3 teaspoonfuls cornstarch lemon 

Juice of 1 orange 

Grate rind of lemon, add to this the juice of lemon 
and orange; stir with this the cornstarch, pour in the 
sugar; lastly add the cup of boiling water. Boil till 
thick enough to spread; stir constantly to prevent burn- 
ing. When cold spread between the layers of cake and 
sift sugar over the top. 

Mrs. AURELIUS K. shay. 



Fig Filling- 
Chop 8 figs into small pieces; cover them with water 
and 2 tablespoonf uls of sugar; let simmer slowly on back 
of stove until thick like jelly. Frost the cake and 
spread the figs over the frosting. 

LAURA K YOTT. 

Ginger Cake 

1 cup of molasses \ cup of brown sugar 

\ CU15 of butter 2 teaspoonfuls of soda in 1 
24^ cups of sifted flour cup of boiling water 

1 teaspoonful each of cin- 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger 
namon, cloves, allspice 

Add 2 well beaten eggs the last thing before baking. 
Put molasses, sugar, butter and spices into the mixing 
bowl; put soda in a cup and fill up with boiling water; 
pour this over first mixture; add flour; then the eggs. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. lewis H. SULLIVAN. 

Ginger Bread 

Excellent. 

1 cup of molasses \ cup of sugar 

\ cup of butter 1 cup of hot water 

2 eggs 3 cups of flour after it is 
2 teaspoonfuls of soda sifted 

Ginger and spices as preferred 



CAKES 235 

Mix sugar and butter together; then molasses; add 

eggs beaten light; then flour and water and spice. This 

makes enough to be baked in a good sized jDan, but not 

too hot an oi'e?i. 

Mrs. p. a. buck. 



Spouge Ginger Cake 

1 cup of shortening, butter 2 cups of molasses 
or lard 4 cups of flour 

1 cup of sour milk or coffee 2 eggs 

1 tablespoonful of ginger 1 teaspoonful of cloves and 

1 teaspoonful of soda dis- salt 

solved in the milk 

Mrs. EDWARD WHEELER. 



Hard Giiig^er Bread 

1 cup of butter 2 cups of sugar 

1 cup of milk 4 cups of flour 

^ teaspoonful of soda 1 tablespoonful of ginger 

Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar gradually, 
and when very light the ginger, the milk in which the 
soda has been dissolved, and Anally the flour. Sj^read 
with a knife very thin on tin sheets. Bake and cut in 
squares while warm. 

Mrs. LOUISE A. THOMPSON. 



Chocolate Macaroons 

Whites of 5 eggs, if very large ouly 4 
1 pound of powdered sugar 

1 pound of chopped almonds 

2 sticks of chocolate 

1 teaspoonful of allspice 
1 teaspoonful of cinnamon 

Beat the whites of eggs very light, add sugar and 
beat stiff, then the almonds blanched and chopped line 
and last of all the chocolate, allspice and cinnamon 
Mix all together, and bake on buttered tins. 

Mrs. L. H. PONTIUS. 



236 CLEVER COOKING 

Cocoamit Macaroons 

This Will Make Eighteen Macaroons. 

f cup of sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

1 tablespoonful of corn \ package of grated cocoa- 

starch nut 

Place the beaten whites in a bowl, add salt and beat 

to a stiff froth, and stir in the sugar. Place the bowl in 

a pan of hot water, and when the mixture is lukewarm, 

stir in the corn starch. Stiffen with cocoanut, drop in 

small bits on buttered tins and bake in slow oven until 

a delicate brown. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 

Hickory Nut Macarooni.s 

Will Make Seventy- Five. 

Whites of 3 eggs \ pound powdered sugar 

\ pound hickory nut meats, 1 tablespoonful flour 
chopped 

Beat the whites and sugar together, adding the sugar 
gradually and beating well on a platter. Add meats 
and flour, mixing w^ell, and stand in a cool place about 
one hour to thicken; then drop oh greased pan about a 
half teaspoonful of the mixture at a time and bake in a 
slow oven. 

Mrs. frank C. sharp, Tacoraa. 

Fruit Pin Wheels 

(From H;irper"s Bazaar.) 

1 pint flour 1 tablespoonful sugar 

i teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- (generous) 

dow .V pint milk 

1 cup sugar i cup currants 

Put flour, salt, baking powder and the tablespoonful 
of sugar into a sieve and sift into a bowl; add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of the butter, wet with the milk, and roll out 
like biscuit, as nearly square as possible, three-quarters 
of an inch thick. Spread with the remaining table- 
spoonful of butter, which should be softened; sprinkle 



CAKES 237 

with the sugar and currants and roll like jelly cake. 
Cut in slices three-quarters of an inch thick, lay in a 
pan without touching, and bake twelve minutes. 

Mrs. T. a. MARSHALL. 

Lemon Cakes 

1 pound flour ^ pound butter 
i pound sugar 4 egg'S 

2 lemons 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

der 

Cream butter and sugar, and add the flour. Beat 
whites and yolks of eggs separately, then mix and add 
the grated rind and juice of the lemons. Beat thor- 
oughly, and add to the flour, etc. Put in tin in small 
rough pieces and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. HENDERSON. 

Slirewesbury Cakes 

i pound flour i pound butter 

^ pound sifted sugar 1 egg 

Rub sugar, butter and flour together; beat well and 

add the yolk of the egg. Roll out very thin; cut into 

squares and bake. 

Mrs. HENDERSON. 

Sand Tarts 

li pounds butter 2 pounds brown sugar 

2 pounds flour 3 eggs 

Cream the butter and stir in the well-beaten eggs; 
add the sugar and then the flour; mix tJiorozighly. Roll 
very thin and cut in diamond shape. Place in buttered 
pans; moisten each one with well-beaien egg, and 
dust over each tart granulated sugar made very brown 
with cinnamon. Then place two halves of blanched 
almonds on each tart. Bake quickly in a very hot oven. 
Let them cool on platters before putting them in the tin 

box. 

Mrs. MONTGOMERY RUSSELL. 



238 CLEVER COOKING 



Cream Cookies 

1 cup butter 2 cups sugar 

4 eggs 

Flour to make stiff enough to roll very thin. Flavor 
to taste. Bake io a quick oven. 

Mrs. frank MITCHELL. 

Excellent Cookies 

2 cups of sugar | cup of lard 

i cup of butter i cup of sweet milk 

2 teaspoonf uls of baking \ teaspoonful of soda 
powder ^ teaspoonful of vanilla 

Make your dough as soft as possible to roll out. 

Mrs. W. V. RINEHART, Jr. 

Sweet Cookies 

3 eggs 1 cup of butter 

H cups of sugar h cup of sweet milk 

1 teaspoonful of saleratus Flour to roll 

Mrs. garden. 



Lemon Cookies 

4 cups of sifted flour 1 cup of butter 

2 cups of sugar 3 eggs w^hipped light 

1 lemon, the juice and grated rind 

Beat thoroughly each ingredient, adding after all 
mixed \ teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoon- 
f ul of milk. Use no other wetting. Roll and cut thin. 

Mrs. THOMAS GREEN. 

Small Sugar Cookies 

IVill A fake About Forty Cookies. 

1 heaping teacup of sugar ^ cup of butter 

\ cup of milk 2 eggs (beaten separately) 

2 teispoonfuls of baking 1 saltspoonful of salt 

powder \ grated nutmeg 

A little more flour may be required, but care must be 



CAKES 239 

taken lest the dough be too stiff. Roll thin, cut in 

shape, sprinkle with granulated sugar and bake in a 

moderate oven. 

Mrs. C. p. dam. 

Drop Ginger Cake 

1 cup of sugar 1 cup of molasses 
i cup of lard or butter 1 cup of sour milk 

2 teaspoonfuls of soda 2 eggs 

1 tablespoonful of ginger Flour to stiffen 

ISABEL JONES. 

Tina's Gingei* Cookies 

1 cup of brown sugar 1 cup of New Orleans 

1 cup of butter and lard molasses 

(equal proportions) 1 tablespoonful of ginger 

Boil about ten minutes, then add 1 teaspoonful of 
soda. When cool add 2 eggs and flour to stiffen. Roll 
thin and bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. B. F. bush. 

Ging-er Snaps 

1 cup of butter and lard 1 tablespoonful of ginger 
1 coffee cup of sugar 1 tablespoonful of cinna- 

1 cup of molasses mon 

1 teaspoonful of cloves | cup of hot water 

1 teaspoonful of soda 

Dissolve the soda in the hot water. Flour enough 
to make soft dough. Roll and bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. F. W. PARKER. 

Ginger Wafers 

1 cup of brown sugar 1 cup of cooking molasses 

1 cup of butter 1 cup of flour 

1 tablespoonful of ginger 

Mix thoroughly. Drop from spoon into buttered 
pan. Bake in moderate oven until they appear full of 
bubbles. Then take out on board and roll, while warm, 
into a hollow tube. If edges are too hard for rolliu',"" 
trim them off. 

Mrs. DAVID KELLOGG. 



240 CLEVER COOKING 

Nut Cookies 

IV!7/' Make Three Dozen. 

\ cup butter 1 cup sugar 

1 egg, well beaten 1 cup flour 

h pound English walnuts, weighed in the shells 

Cream the butter and sugar; add eggs; then flour. 

Chop the nuts very fine and add them to the mixture. 

Roll out as thin as possible, aud after putting in the 

buttered pans, flatten with a wet stamp. The bottom of 

a glass will answer. 

Mrs. DAVID BAXTER. 

Walnut \> aleis 

1 cup walnuts, chopped 1 cup brown sugar 

2 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

Do not chop the nuts too fine; put into pan in small 
teaspoonfuls, for it spreads. Watch carefully in bak- 
ing. 

Mrs. MAURICE McMICKEN. 

Chocolale Waters 

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup granulated sugar 

1 cup butter 1 cup grated chocolate 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 2 tables]30onfuls milk 

Enough Hour to make stiff 

Roll very thin; bake very short time. Sometimes 
add a little baking powder. 

Mrs. B. W. BAKER. 

Oatmeal Cookies 

1^ cups quaker oats \ cup sugar 

\ cup butter, melted 1 scant cup flour 

1 teaspoonful milk 1 even teaspoonful soda 

1 Q,^'^ 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

Stir the sugar into the oatmeal, pour in the melted 
butter; add the beaten Q^g,, the milk, the vanilla and 
lastly the Hour, to which the soda and cream tartar 
must have been added, dry. Roll out, sprinkly lightly 
with the oats, and bake in a mc derate oven. 

Mrs. DONWORTH. 



CAKES 241 



Cocoauiit Drops 

i pound grated cocoanut ^ pound loaf sugar 
Whites of 3 eggs 

Beat whites of the eggs stiff, gradually add the 
sugar, then the cocoanut. Drop on buttered papers and 
bake. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 



Oougluiuts in Kliyiiie 

(Ladies' Home Journal.) 

One cup sugar, one cup of milk. 

Two eggs beaten line as silk; 
Salt and nutmeg (lemon '11 do), 

Of baking powder, teaspoonf uls two. 
Lightly stir the Hour in. 

Roll on pie board not too thin ; 
Cut in diamonds, twists or rings. 

Drop with care the doughy things 
Into fat that swells 

Evenly the spongy cells; 
Watch with care the time for turning. 

Pry them brown just short of burning; 
Roll in sugar, serve when cool. 

Price — a quarter for this rule. 

Mrs. M. p. ZINDORF. 

Anna's Doiigliniits 

1 egg f cup sugar 

Y cup milk 1 teaspoonful melted lard 

i nutmeg 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 

der 

Plour enough to admit of its being rolled out. Cut 
into rings and fry in boiling lard. 

Mrs. J. D. LOWMAN. 

Yeast Doug-hnuts 

Scald 1 quart of sweet milk and pour over ^ cup of 
lard and same of butter and 1^ cups of sugar. When 

c. c— 16 



242 CLEVER COOKING 

ineltod stir in enough flonr (about 1 quart) to make a 
sponge; then add 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast and set away 
for the night. In the morning work it down, adding 2 
eggs. Let rise second time. Be careful not to use 
too much flour. After cutting them out, let rise again. 
When fried roll in powdered sugar. 

Mrs. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 



Douglinuts 

Delicious. 

1 small teacup sugar 1 cup sweet milk 

2 eggs 3 generous teaspoonfuls 

3 cups flour (about) melted butter 
3 teaspoonfuls baking Salt 

powder \ teaspoonf ul nutmeg grated 

Drop from spoon into boiling lard. 

Mrs. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 

Fried Cakes 

About Three Dozen. 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 piece butter size of anegg 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- ^ nutmeg 

der 2 eggs 

1 cup milk 3i cups flour (generous) 

\ teaspoonful salt 

Beat butter, sugar and eggs together fi.f teen minutes; 

add the milk; then the flour, with the baking powder 

and salt. Mix very soft, roll out one-half inch thick, 

cut with cutter with hole in the middle, and fry quickly. 

Roll them in powdered sugar as needed. This will keep 

them fresh much longer than if all are rolled at one 

time. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



ELEANOR MAKES MACAROONS 



Light of triumph in her eyes. 

Eleanor her apron ties; 

As she pushes back her sleeves. 

High resolve her bosom heaves. 

Hasten, cook! impel the fire 

To the pace of her desire; 

As you hope to save your soul, 

Bring a virgin casserole, 

Brightest bring of silver spoons, — 

Eleanor mal<:es macroons! 

Almond -blossoms, now advance 
In the smile of Southern France; 
Leave your sport with sun and breeze. 
Think of duty, not of ease; 
Fashion, "neath their jerkins browm. 
Kernels white as thistle-down, 
Tiny cheeses made with cream 
From the Galaxy's mid- stream, 
Blanched in light of honeymoons; — 
Eleanor makes macaroons ! 

Now for sugar, — nay, our plan 
Tolerates no work of man. 
Hurry, then, ye golden bees; 
Fetch your clearest honey, please, 
Garnered on a Yorkshire moor. 
While the last larks sing and soar, 
From the heather-blossoms sweet 
Where sea-breeze and sunshine meet. 
And the Augusts mask as Junes, — 
Eleanor makes macaroons I 

Next the pestle and mortar find. 
Pure rock-crystal. — these to grind 
Into paste more smooth than silk. 
Whiter than the milkweed's milk; 
Spread it on a rose-leaf thus. 
Gate to please Theocritus; 
Then the fire with spices sw^ell. 
While for her completer spell. 
Mystic canticles she croons, — 
Eleanor makes macroons I 

JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL. 
(343) 



244 



CLEVER COOKING 




t; 



^HE BEST PRE - 
pared food may 
be spoiled by stove 
or ran^^e that will 
not work right. If 
you will inquire of 
any of the following 
ladies they can tell 
you about the 



Monitor Steel Range 



Mrs. 


Abrams 


Mrs. 


Fuhman 


Mrs. 


Sackman 


Mrs. 


Adair 


Mrs. 


Gottstein 


Mrs. 


Sander 


Mrs. 


Armstrong- 


Mrs 


Gund 


Mrs 


Wallingford 


Mrs. 


Austin 


Mrs. 


Hazelline 


Mrs. 


Garrett 


Mrs. 


Alkinson 


.Mrs. 


Heilbron 


Mrs. 


Cowley 


Mrs. 


Ainsworth 


Mrs 


Haines 


Mrs 


C. J. Smith 


Mrs. 


Andrews 


Mrs. 


Gregory 


Mrs. 


Wm. Stewart 


Mrs. 


Benton 


Mrs. 


E. C. Hughes 


Mrs. 


B. F. Bush 


Mrs. 


Burnside 


Mrs. 


Hanna 


Mrs. 


Relfe 


Mrs. 


A. S. Burwell 


Mrs. 


John Kinnear 


Mrs. 


Robe rtson 


Mrs. 


Carr 


Mrs. 


George 


Mrs. 


W. F. Boyd 


Mrs. 


Clise 


Mrs. 


Ranke 


Mrs. 


Battle 


Mrs. 


Colver 


Mrs. 


McNaught 


Mrs. 


Claussen 


Mrs. 


Conover 


Mrt. 


Conant 


Mrs. 


P. B. M. Miller 


Mrs. 


Crawford 


Mrs. 


McGinn is 


Mrs. 


Pumphrey 


Mrs. 


Cole 


Mrs. 


Plummer 


Mrs. 


Wing 


Mrs. 


O. O. Denny 


Mrs. 


Melhorn 


Mrs. 


Sanborn 




Space does 


not pe 


rmit to mentior 


I man^ 


Y others. 



THE JOHN SCHRAM CO, 

Rialto Building, vSeattle, Wash. 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE SUCCESSFULLY 
WITH ONE SERVANT 



The problem of how to get on with one servant at 
times confronts most housekeepers, and particularly- 
young housekeepers. 

To be successful, one must be systematic and must 
require that the work be done, as near as practicable, 
at the designated time. However, too much must not 
be demanded, and, although requiring the table to be 
always carefully served and the house kept in order, 
the housekeeper may, by a little attention to details, 
arrange her work so that on days when it falls heaviest 
her menus will consist of dishes most easily prepared 
and served. On such days she may assist materially 
by dusting and attending to minor matters, which, while 
not laborious, require considerable time. 

In the first place it is essential to provide good uten- 
sils, of which by far the most important is a reliable 
stove or range. The servant should rise at least one 
and one-half hours before the breakfast, when much of 
the routine work of the house, such as building the 
fires, airing the rooms, taking up ashes, etc., can be 
done. 

After the breakfast is cleared away the house should 
first be put in order and all of the rougher work at- 
tended to; after luncheon the lighter and neater work, 
such as baking, ironing, etc., can be done. This will 
enable the servant to be more neatly dressed to answer 
the door when most likely to be summoned; although at 
all times a fresh white apron must be kept in a conven- 
ient place so that it can be easily put on when she is 
called from the kitchen for any purpose. 

Dinner being over, the kitchen should be put in order 
and arrangements made for the morning's breakfast. 
After this the servant, as far as practicable when the 

(845) 



246 CLEVER COOKING 

mistress is at home, should be free to occapy her time 
as she pleases. The answering of the door may then 
be done by some member of the family. 

The manner of preparing and serving should be as 
follows: The table should be carefully laid in ample 
time and always furnished with fresh linen. Require 
the same care and attention when the family is alone as 
when guests are present, by doing which, confusion 
will be avoided if strangers come unexpectedly. Have 
everything for the proper serving of the meal in readi- 
ness and arrange conveniently the dishes required for 
the various courses. The first course should be placed 
upon the table and the water glasses filled before the 
dinner is announced. After serving this, the next 
course should be prepared for the table and kept warm, 
if necessary, until the first course has been removed, 
and each course in its turn in the same manner. 

The maid should stand at the left of the host or 
hostess, who is serving, and take the i:)late on her tray, 
placing it from the left, directly in front of each person, 
Anything, such as bread, vegetables, celery, etc., should 
be offered from the left in such a position that it may be 
easily taken. 

In removing a course take first the dish from which 
the host or hostess has been serving and then the 
plates, removing them from the right, one or two only 
at a time. Have the crumb knife used as often as re- 
quired. In serving be careful to avoid unnecessary 
noise and haste. As the various dishes are removed 
they should be carefully placed on a table in the 
kitchen, set aside for that purpose. 

Servants will not find it difficult, after a little expe- 
rience, to do the work of an ordinary household in a 
systematic manner, having a time for everything as 
well as a place for everything. 

A simple menu, carefully cooked and served, will be 
found much more appetizing and attractive than an 
elaborate one poorly cooked and carelessly served. 



SANDWIG/iES 



'A crust of bread and liberty." — Horace. 



The secret of a sandwich is entirely in the manipu- 
lation. Given good bread and good butter, and the rest 
is largely a matter of patience. The bread must be 
delicately thin and crustless, the butter must be soft 
and evenly spread, cheese must be finely grated, and 
meat or fish chopped or pounded to a paste. The best 
bread is bakers' water bread a day old, though the loaf 
must not be cut before using. Brown bread being much 
more moist, may be used on the day of baking. Sand- 
wiches should never be made long before serving. If, 
however, they must stand any length of time, their 
freshness is insured by w^rapping them in a thick brown 
paper, over which a doubled napkin wrung out in cold 
water is folded, and setting them in a cold place. — //ar- 
per's Bazaar. 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Mix cheese (Deilcatesse or Club House) with mayon- 
naise or prepared mustard, and with some hard-boiled 
eggs chopped exceedingly fine. Put this mixture into 
a mortar and rub together into a paste. Spread on but- 
tered squares of bread, or thin crackers, or best of all, 
thin slices of buttered toast. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Walnut Sandwiches 

1 pound English walnuts, cut kernels in small pieces ; 
cover with a nice mayonnaise dressing. Cut bread in 

(847) 



248 CLEVER COOKING 

fancy shapes, round, square or triangular, and spread 

with mixture. Set in cool place till nearly ready to 

serve. 

Mrs. V. A. RITON. 

Sardine Sandwiches 

Chop the sardines very fine, and mix with Worces- 
tershire sauce, or with mayonnaise dressing. Spread 
on small squares of thin bread and butter. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Peanut Sandwiches 

Mash peanuts in a mortar to a paste, or chop as fine 
as possible. Thoroughly mix with Worcestershire 
sauce; spread on thin slices of bread and butter cut 
small. A good "appetizer" and nice to serve at "5 
o'clock tea." 

Mrs. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Oyster Sandwiches 

IVi// Make Sixty. 
Chop 1 quart of oysters very fine; season with pep- 
per, salt, and a little nutmeg. Mix with \ cupful melted 
butter, the same of rich cream, whites of 3 eggs, beaten, 
and 8 ordinary round crackers, powdered. Heat in 
double boiler until a smooth paste; set away until cold; 
spread between slices of buttered bread. 

Koast Beef Sandwiches 

Chop rare roast beef very finely; season with salt. 
pepper, a very little mustard and a dash of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Use plenty salt. 

Mixed Sandwiches 

Chop fine cold ham, tongue and chicken. Mix with 
1 pint of meat, ^ cup of melted butter, 1 tables poonful 
of salad oil, 1 tablespoonful of mustard, yolk of 1 egg, 



SANDWICHES 24<J 



beaten, a little pepper. Spread on lettuce leaf between 
slices of bread and butter. 



Lobster Sandwielies 

Chop the meat of a fresh or canned lobster very fine; 

add a few drops lemon juice, a dash of cayenne, and mix 

quite soft with mayonnaise. A tablespoonful of finely 

cho^Dped capers, cucumber pickles or olives improves it 

greatly. Spread between thin buttered slices of brown 

or Graham bread. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Salmon Saii<lwiclie.s 

Free cold canned salmon from all skin and bone, 
shred finely with a silver fork; add a squeeze of lemon 
juice, a little paprika and tomato catsup; mix to a paste 
with melted butter. 

Baked Beau Sandwiches 

Rub cold baked beans through a sieve; add salt and 
pepper to taste, and mix with mayonnaise to a smooth 
paste. Add finely chopped celery leaves or a little cel- 
ery salt and spread between buttered brown bread. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Cottage Cheese Sandwiches 

Rub cottage cheese to a paste; add olives or capers, 
yine/y minced, and a little Worcestershire. Should be 
well salted. Spread between buttered white or brown 
bread. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop hard-boiled eggs; season with salt, cayenne 
and a little vinegar; mix to a paste with soft butter. 
Add pickles chopped fine, and a little devilled meat of 
any kind, or a little minced ham, tongue or chicken. 
Spread between slices of white bread or finger rolls. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



250 CLEVER COOKING 

Anchovy Sandwiches 

3 anchovies 4 ounces butter 

1 hard-boiled egg Salt and pepper 

A little nutmeg 

Bone the anchovies, and pound them with the butter, 
egg, salt, pepper and nutme.LC. Slice bread very thin; 
spread with the paste and roll. — Harper s Bazaar. 

Chicken Jelly Sandwiches 

Make chicken jelly the day before wanting the sand- 
wiches; cut in thin slices and lay between thin slices of 
buttered bread. The bread should be spread with soft- 
ened butter before cutting. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

American Sandwiches 

Chop \ pound of ham very fine, together with 2 
chopped pickles; mustard, salt and pepper to taste. 
Beat 6 ounces of butter to a cream, add the chopped 
ham and mix well. Cut thin slices of bread, spread 
with the mixture, press together, cut into diamonds and 
garnish with parsley. — Harper s Bazaar. 

Valentine Sandwiches 

Chop together 1 cup of chicken meat, 6 button mush- 
rooms; add salt and pepper, and \ pint of mayonnaise 
dressing. Spread on thin slices of buttered bread, cut 
into hearts and garnish with parsley. — Harper s Bazaar. 

All Sorts 

Thin slices of fruit or pound cake between brown 
bread. 

Lettuce leaves with mayonnaise between thin slices 
white bread and butter. 

Tender nasturtium leaves, or cresses, in same man- 
ner. 

Chestnuts, boiled, rubbed to a paste with mayon- 
naise. 



SAND WICHES 251 



Any nut meats, chopped, pounded and mixed with 
mayonnaise. 

Chestnuts boiled, sprinkled with sugar and seasoned 
with vanilla. 

Graham bread spread with crabapple jelly and pre- 
served ginger chopped. 

Raisins, figs, dates and nuts, chopped, in equal 
parts, or in any combination. 

Veal, ham and hard-boiled eggs; equal parts chopped 
and seasoned with salt, cayenne and lemon; mixed with 
soft butter. 

Salted almonds chopped and pounded. 

Any jelly or jam. If tart mixed with a little finely 
chopped, preserved ginger, or ginger syrup. 

Chicken and ham, chopped and pounded; season 
with salt, pepper and a little mace. 

Cold roast turkey, beef, boiled tongue and ham, 
equal quantities,chopped and pounded; add finely minced 
pickles, olives and capers; mix with mayonnaise. 

Cold veal and bard-boiled eggs chopped, season with 
salt, pepper and catsup; mix with creamed butter. 

Anchovy paste. 

Thin slices of rare roast beef, salted freely. 

Promage de Brie, or cream cheese, spread thinly on 
bread; add a little paprika. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR A CHRISTMAS 
DINNER 



"And care — well may she come at most like Christmas — once a 
year." 







Oyster Cocktail 


Celery 




Spinach Soup 

Radishes 
Lobster Baskets 


Roast Tur 


key 
Moi 


Cranberry Jelly 
aided Potato Asparagus 
Tomato Jelly Salad 


Olives 




Cheese Crackers 
Plum Pudding 


Ice Cream 




Mince Pie 

Cake 


Bon-bons 




Coffee 



If spinach cannot be obtained, a green soup can be 
made from canned peas; and canned lobster, asparagus 
and tomatoes could be used for the other courses. Have 
red bon-bons in the dishes, and cut the cranberry jelly 
with a small heart-shaped cutter and serve individually. 
Frost the small cakes with red frosting (colored with 
beet juice), and have strawberry and pistachio ice cream. 
Use a center-piece embroidered in holly, or lay small 
twigs of holly with the berries on, to simmulate a cen- 
terpiece. In the center of the table place a mock 
Christmas tree about a foot high. It is convenient to 
I3ut it in a flower-pot of earth. Put the smallest-size 
toy red candles and tiny red glass balls on the tree. 
Around the pot put cotton patting, pulled out fleecy and 
soft; tie it on with red ribbon, and sprinkle with diamond 
powder until it glistens lil^e frost. Tie bows of red rib- 
bon wherever possible in the room — for instance, around 
potted plants. If one has electric light, wind the chan- 
delier with cotton batting, sprinkle with diamond pow- 
der, and decorate with the bows and holly twigs or green 
vines trailing down to the table. With gas it might be 
dangerous to use the cotton batting, but the ribbon and 
vines are a pretty combination. If one has silver can- 
dleabra use red candles in them and tie with red ribbon. 
For name cards have Christmas cards, and if desired, 
small souvenirs of the dinner may be hung on the dwarf 
tree. (sss) 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC 



"Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppertf 



Caimiug 

Have the jars and tops in hot water, and the rubbers 
in cold water. Cook only enough syrup at one time for 
one can, and by using two kettles no time is lost by 
having the syrup for the second can, cooking in one 
kettle, while the fj-uit for the first can cooks in the 
other. 

For small fucits make a thin syrup of 1 cup of sugar 
to 1 cup of water to each can; put in enough fruit for 
the one can, allow it Jusf to come to a boil, pour into the 
can and seal at once. Be sure the can is brimming full. 
If the syru]3 was a little short fill the can with boiling 
water. 

For large f7'iuts make a syrup of 1^ cups of sugar to 1 
cup of water. When it boils put in the fruit and let it 
cook until tiearly tender. Seal quickly. 

In the evening screw the tops as tight as possible 
and again in the morning; then set in a cool dark place. 

If large cans are used proportionately more syrup 
must be made. 

Canned Peaches 

Make a syrup of 1 pint of sugar and i pint of water 

to a quart of fruit. Boil syrup till clear, skimming 

carefully; put in the fruit, cook till tender and seal at 

once. 

Mrs. F. 

(253) 



254 CLEVER COOKING 

Tiitti Friitti 

Put in a two -gallon jar, 1 quart of brandy and 3 
pounds of granulated sguar. As various kinds of fruit 
are obtained, add 1 pound of sugar for each pound of 
fruit. Begin with strawberries, cherries stoned, 
bananas, pineapple cut in pieces, etc. Keep in a cool 
place and stir every few days until the last of the fruit 
has been added. The quantity of brandy and sugar 
mentioned at first will bear seven or eight pounds each 
of fruit and extra sugar. Put in small cans or jars, or 
cover with a paper wet in brandy and tie a second 
paper over the first. This is an easy way to preserve 
fruit so that it will retain its natural flavor, and is deli- 
cious for tutti frutti ice cream, or for jellies or sauces. 

Preserves 

Pears, quinces and clingstone peaches should be first 
cooked in clear water until almost tender. Drain and 
add f pound of sugar and ^ pint of water (in which fruit 
was cooked) to each pound of fruit. After skimming 
add fr.uit a little at a time to avoid crushing, and cook 
till clear. When all is cooked boil the syrup down and 
seal. If the fruit is not to be sealed use a pound in- 
stead of f of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. 
Care should be taken to sldm the syrup frequently, to 
keep clear. 

Mrs. F. W. PARKER. 

Strawberry Preserves 

f pound of sugar and i pint of water to each pound 
of fruit. Put part of the sugar over the berries at night; 
in the morning drain, add the remainder of the sugar 
and boil until quite thick; add the fruit and cook until 
clear. Seal when hot. Or make the syrup with the 
water; add the fruit and cook. 

Mrs. F. W. PARKER. 

<:;iirraiit Jelly 

Pick over, but do not stem, the currants. Mash them 
a little; add a cup of water if necessary to keep them 



PBESEBVES, PICKLES, ETC. 255 



from burning, and cook gently (do not let them boil) 
until they look ragged. Put in a bag made of two thick- 
nesses of cheesecloth and let them drip over night. 
Next morning strain the juice thus obtained, measure it 
and weigh the sugar — a pound of sugar for every pint 
of juice. While the juice is heating put the sugar in 
shallow dishes and set in the oven, stirring occasion- 
ally. Boil the juice just ten minutes, simmering until 
clear; then put in gradually the hot sugar and stir con- 
stantly until it is dissolved. As soon as it comes to a 
boil again remove from the fire and pour into glasses. 
When cold lay neatly-fitted rounds of white paper, 
dipped in brandy, next the jelly, taking care to exclude 
the air bubbles and to entirely cover it. Then paste 
paper covers over the tops of the cups. The currants 
are better for being very ripe. A clear day is preferable 
for jelly-making. Many people like a little raspberry 
juice mixed with the currant juice. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 

Crabapple Jelly 

A sprig of rose geranium dipped in the crabapple 

jelly just before putting into glasses gives a pleasant 

flavor. 

Mrs. T. M. DAULTON. 

Oraug^e Marmalade No. 1 

12 oranges (medium size) 2 quarts water 
2 lemons 9 pounds sugar 

Wash the oranges clean, wipe dry and cut in thin 
slices (just as you would slice potatoes for frying), 
using peel and pulp but rejecting the seeds. Pour 
over them 2 quarts of cold watpr and boil until very 
tender (about an hour and half); add 9 pounds of sugar 
and boil an hour or a little longer. 

MTSS MALTBY. 

Oraiig^e Marmalade No. ii 

Take the juice and pulp of 12 oranges; add the 
grated rind of 6; put equal weight of sugar and oranges 



256 CLEVER COOKING 



together and boil slowly to the consistency of a 

thick syrup. If the bitter taste is preferred, the rind 

of 6 oranges may be sliced in extremely thin strips and 

boiled until tender, changing the water several times, 

and then added to the boiling fruit about ten minutes 

before it is taken from the stove. Bottle while very 

hot. 

Mrs. bangs. 

Crystalizetl Orange Peel 

Alice as a Confection for Teas, Receptions, Etc. 
Cut oranges lengthwise, take out pulp and most of 
the white part. Put into a strong solution of salt and 
water for six days; then boil them in a quantity of 
water till tender and drain. Make a thin syrup of sugar 
and water (a pound of sugar to a quart of water); put 
in the peel and boil one-half hour, or until it looks clear. 
Have ready a thick syrup of sugar and just water 
enough to dissolve it; put in the rinds and boil slowly 
until you see the syrup candy about them. Take them 
out and roll one by one in granulated sugar. 

Mrs. GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 

Pickled Peaches or Pears 

Prepare a syrup in proportion of: 
B pounds sugar 1 pint vinegar 

1 tablespoonful each of 4 tablespoonfuls cinnamon 
whole and ground cloves 

to each gallon of fruit. Boil sugar, vinegar and 
spices live minutes. Pare the fruit, cut in halves and 
core. Put part at a time into the syrup and cook till a 
silver fork will pierce it easily. Skim out the fruit and 
put in a stone jar. When all the fruit is cooked, boil 
the syrup ten minutes longer and pour over all. In the 
morning drain off the syrup and cook fifteen minutes 
and pour over the fruit again. Repeat three mornings. 
The third morning thoroughly heat the fruit and boil 
the syrup till like maple syrup; pour over the fruit; tie 
the covers down with cloth; not necessary to seal. 

Mrs. F. W. PARKER. 



PRESEBVES. PICKLES, ETC. 257 



Spiced Pliiins or Primes 

7 pounds plums 1 pint sour vinegar 

4 pounds sugar 1 tablespoonful mace 

2 tablespoonf uls each of cloves and cinnamon 

Put sugar and vinegar on to boil; add spices, in a 
thin muslin bag, and boil tifteen minutes. Put in the 
plums and just heat through; skim them out into jars. 
Let the syrup boil down a few minutes longer; then 
pour over the plums and seal the jars. 

Mrs. F. W. PARKER. 



Currant Catsup No. 1 

Take 2 quarts of ripe red currants, stem and put 
them in a stewpan with i pint of boiling water; let them 
boil ten minutes, strain through a colander. Then add 
^ pint of best vinegar, 1 pound of brown sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful each of mace, ground cloves and cinnamon, 1 
teaspoonful of allspice. Boil quickly for half an hour; 
bottle and seal for use. This is delicious and improves 

with age. 

Mrs. a. W. ENGLE. 

Currant Catsup No. 2 

5 pints ripe currants after stripping from the stem 

3 pints sugar 

1 pint vinegar 

1 tablespoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice and 

black pepper 
i tablespoonful salt 

Boil all together until sufticiently thick. 

Mrs. H. C. henry. 

Gooseberry Catsup 

H pounds berries 4 pounds sugar 

1 pint vinegar 2 ounces whole cloves 

2 ounces cinnamon 

Boil four hours, and seal carefully. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



258 CLEVER COOKING 



Api'icot Catsup 

1 gallon sliced ripe apri- 2 tablespoonfuls salt 

cots 1 tablespoonf ul black pep- 

1 tablespoonful allspice per 

1 pint best cider vinegar ^ teaspoonful cloves 
6 red peppers 2 teaspoonf uls dry mustard 

1 small onion or a tablespoonful of onion juice 

Cook 2^ hours, then cool and run through a colan- 
der. Put in kettle and boil (careful not to burn), then 
add 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch dissolved in a little 
vinegar. After it comes from the stove add the cloves, 
or same amount of mace. Bottle. 

Cucumber Catsup 

3 dozen cucumbers 12 onions 

^ pint salt 1 teacup mustard seed 

i teacup ground black pepper 

Pare and chop cucumbers and onions very fine, 
sprinkle over them the salt; put the whole in a sieve or 
bag and let drain over night. Mix will with the mus- 
tard seed and pepper; place in jars and cover with vin- 
egar. This is delicious with oysters. It is better if 
kept from the light. 

Mrs. EDWARD WHEELER. 

Tomato Catsup 

1 gallon tomato juice 1 quart vinegar 

2 tablespoonfuls cloves 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon 

1 tablespoonful allspice 1 tablespoonful black pep- 

1 tablespoonful red pepper per 

2 tablespoonfuls salt 2 tablespoonfuls white mus- 
\ cup brown sugar tard seed 

Boil four hours; seal and bottle while hot. 

Mrs. S. W. CLARK. 

Tomato Catsup No. ti 

1 gallon tomatoes 1 teaspoonful cayenne 

1 tablespoonful mustard \ tablespoonfulwholecloves 

seed i tablespoonful w^hole all- 
Small stick cinnamon spice 



PBESERVES, PICKLES. ETC. 259 

Stew and strain the tomatoes, then cook again till 
thick. When about half thick enough add spices tied 
loosely in a thin muslin bag; also 1 tables poonful of 
sugar, 1 cup of strong vinegar, and salt to taste. If 
onions are liked they should be put in while stewing. 
This will not be discolored hy spices, but as bright as 
stewed tomatoes; if liked more highly colored, like the 
prepared catsups, a little fruit red and mandarin yellow 
fruit paste may be used. 

Mrs. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Spieert Toiiiatoe.>j 

5 pounds green tomatoes 2 pounds brown sugar 
1 pint best cider vinegar ^ ounce whole cloves 
1 ounce stick cinnamon \ ounce mace 

Cut the tomatoes into small pieces and boil them 
with the sugar, vinegar and spices (in a muslin bag) un- 
til cooked through; then remove the fruit, leaving the 
spices and syr,up to be boiled together until the syrup 
is sufficiently spiced. This is then poured over the 
fruit, the spices being left in the syrup to further flavor 

it. 

Mrs. S. W. R. dally. 

Bordeaux Sauce 

1 gallon green tomatoes 1 large head cabbage 

1 dozen onions 4 green peppers 

Chop all together; add ^ pint salt and let it stand half 

an hour. Then drain through a colander, placing a 

weight on top to press out all the juice. Put in porce- 

tain kettle with 1 gallon of strong vinegar, \ ounce of 

tumeric, \ ounce of celery seed, \ ounce of Coriander 

seed, \ pound of white mustard seed, + pound of brown 

sugar. Boil one hour. Will keep the year round if 

kept in a cool dark ploce. 

Mrs. frank beach. 

Euglisli Mustard Pickle 

24 medium-sized cucumbers 1 quart small onions 

2 cauliflowers 6 green peppers 

Cut all into small pieces, put in salt and water over 



260 CLEVEB COOKING 

night; scald in the same water. Drain them and j)ut 
into 3 quarts of boiUng vinegar with 2 cups of sugar, 

4 teaspoonfuls of celery seed, ^ pound of ground mus- 
tard, f cup of flour, i ounce of tumeric. Boil all to- 
gether fifteen minutes; then cool and bottle. 

Mrs. frank beach. 

Sauce for the Goose 

i peck ripe tomatoes 1 cup chopped celery 

1 cup chopped onions 1 cup brown sugar 

^ cup salt 1 nutmeg grated 

1 teaspoonf al grouiid cloves 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 teasf)Oonf ul white pepper 3 green peppers chopped 

1 quart good vinegar 

Peel and chop the tomatoes; then drain two hours. 

Mix all well together; add the vinegar and seal. No 

cooking required. 

Mrs. L. LUDLOW MOORE. 

Chili Sauce No. 1 

12 large ripe tomatoes 4 peppers 

2 onions 2 tablespoonfuls salt 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 tablespoonful cinnamon 

3 cupfuls vinegar 

Peel the tomatoes, and chop fine; then add the 
onions and peppers chopped very fine. Boil one and one- 
half hours. One quart can of tomatoes may be used 
with the other ingredients instead of the ripe tomatoes. 
Mrs. albert t. timmerman. 

Chili Sauce No. ii 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 6 onions, medium size 

5 large red peppers li cups sugar 

\ cup salt 1 even teaspoonful each of 

1 pint vinegar ground allspice, cloves 

and cinnamon 

After the tomatoes are cooked and strained add 
spices and other ingredients. Boil gently until thick. 

Mrs. a. F. McEWAN. 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 261 



Sweet Tomato Pickles 

1 peck green tomatoes 1 teaspoonf ul black pepper 

4 large onions 2 tablespoonfuls whole 

1 cup salt cloves 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon 2 quarts cider vinegar 
2 tablespoonfuls allspice 2 pounds sugar 

1 tablespoonful ginger 

Slice the tomatoes and onions, add the salt and let 

stand over night. In the morning cover with cold water 

and drain well. Put the spices in a muslin bag and soak 

in tne vinegar over night. In the morning add the sugar, 

and simmer two hours. Then add the tomatoes and onions 

and boil forty minutes. 

Mrs. GREGORY. 



Spiced Green Tomatoes 

1 peck green tomatoes, sliced 
12 large onions, sliced 

Leave in salt and water twentj'-four hours; then 
drain; and add : 

i pound mustard seed 1 ounce cloves 

1 ounce cinnamon 1 ounce allspice 

1 ounce whole black pepper H pound sugar 

Cover with vinegar and boil till transparent. Using 
whole spices makes the pickle look better. 

Mrs. a. M. brooks. 

Frencli Pickles 

1 peck green tomatoes, 6 large onions, sHced 

sliced 1 teacup salt 

3 quarts vinegar 2 pounds brown sugar 

^ pound white mustard 2 tablespoonfuls ground all- 
seed spice 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon 2 tablespoonfuls cloves 
2 tablespoonfuls ginger 2 tablespoonfuls ground 

mustard 

Put tomatoes and onions in alternate layers, well 
sprinkled with salt; let stand over night. Next day 
drain thoroughly and boil in 1 quart of vinegar and 2 
quarts of water for fifteen or twenty minutes; drain 



262 CLEVER COOKING 



add sugar, mustard seed and spices to the remaining 2 
quarts of vinegar; tlirow all together, boil fifteen min- 
utes and put in jars. 

Mrs. EDWARD WHEELER. 

Piccalilli 

1 peck green tomatoes, chopped fine 

2 dozen cucumbers, peeled and chopped fine 
1 small head of cabbage, chopped fine 

Sprinkle salt over each and let stand over night. In 
the morning drain perfectly dry; mix all together and 
heat enough vinegar to cover the mixture; pour over it 
and let stand over night. After draining oif the vin- 
egar in the morning add 6 or 8 chilli pepper, chopped 
fine; 1 pound of white mustard seed, 1 cup of sugar, 1 
tablespoonful of cloves. 1 ounce of allspice, salt to taste. 
Cover with vinegar and cook several hours until ten- 
der. Put in airtight jars. 

Mrs. WARBASS. 

Watermelon Pickle 

3 pounds brown sugar 1 scant quart vinegar 

Cut w^atermelon rinds in squares, soak in alum 
water over night; in the morning drain. Put vinegar 
and sugar on the stove, and when boiling add water- 
melon, and boil until syrup is as thick as honey and the 

rinds are clear. 

Miss NANCY BREWER. 

Ciicuniber Pickle 

1^ dozen old cucumbers ^ dozen onions (small) 
1 ounce white mustard seed 

Pare and slice cucumbers, leaving out the seeds; 

chop, sprinkle well with salt and let stand over night; 

onions the same way, sejDarately. Next morning rinse 

thoroughly in cold water, mix cucumbers, onions and 

mustard seed, pouring over all enough vinegar to cover. 

When in jars, cover to about the depth of one inch with 

olive oil and seal. 

Mrs. STROUT. 



PBESEBVES, PICKLES, ETC. 263 



Dressing- for Choppecl Pickles 

In 3 pints of vinegar boil 1^ cups brown sugar and 
all sorts of spices to taste. Make a smooth paste of i 
pound of mustard, \ cup (scant) of Hour, L ounce of 
tumeric, 1 gill of olive oil, and 1 pint (scant) of cold 
vinegar. Stir the mixture into the boiling vinegar till 
smooth and pour hot over the pickle, which should be 
previously salted and scalded in 1 pint of vinegar, and 

1 pint of water, and thoroughly drained. This quantity 
dressing is sufticient for two gallons of pickles. 

Chow Chow 

2 quarts beans ■ 4 dozen cucumbers 

2 quarts onions 2 dozen green peppers 

2 quarts green tomatoes i dozen ears corn 
1 head cabbage 2 pounds cauliflower 

\ pound mustard seed ^ pound mustard 

\ pound celery seed 4 ounces tumeric 

i bottle olive oil 

Cut the vegetables into small pieces, sprinkle thickly 
with salt and let stand over night. In the morning 
rinse with cold water and drain. Add the whole 
spices and enough vinegar to make of it a good consist- 
ency. Mix mustard and tumeric with cold vinegar and 
stir in while boiling. Cook thirty or forty minutes, or 

until vegetables are tender. 

Mrs. S. W. CLARK. 



264 



CLEVER COOKING 




Is better than any soap ; handier, finer, more effec- 
tive, more of it, more for the money, and in the 
form of a powder for your convenience. Takes, as 
it were, the fabric in one hand, the dirt in the other, 
and lays them apart — comparatively speaking, wash 
ing with little work. 

As it saves the worst of the work, so it saves trie 
worst of the wear. It ^isn't the use of clothes that 
makes them old before their time ; it is rubbing ar.'l 
straining, getting the dirt out by main strength. 

For scrubbing, house-cleaning, washing dishet;, 
windows and glassware, Pearline has no equal. 

Beware of 'mitations, prize packages and ped- 

^^^'^^- TAMES PYLE. New YcrJr 



"R. 5. V. P." 



BRAND 



Fine Table Salt 



Does Not Stick in the Shaker 



SPENCER-CLARKE CO. agents, 

WASHINGTON AND OREGON 



GONFEGTIONERY 



'A wilderness of sweets."" 



Fondant 

1 pint granulated sugar 7 pint (scant) cold water 

Mix well together, and put on to boil, being careful 
not to disturb until done. {Never stir it.) After ten 
minutes of boiling, gently try it with a fork and if it 
hairs, keep close watch of it, trying it in cold water 
until it forms a soft ball. Remove quickly from the 
stove, pour into an earthen bowl and set away to cool. 
At blood heat, a thin icing will have formed on the top, 
w^hich should be gently lifted off with a wide-tined fork, 
in order that not a bit remain, and none of the syrup be 
wasted. When this is done beat hard with a fork until 
stiff ; then take in the hands and work until smooth and 
creamy, not a grain should remain. This will keep for 
weeks in a cool place. If a quantity of fondant be made 
the skimmings may all be boiled over with the addition 
of a little water. 

To insure success in making, close watch must be 
kept during the boiling, and quick judgment used as to 
the time for removing from the fire. Boiling sugar is 
full of whims, and is better than any barometer in fore- 
casting the weather. Therefore watch it! On a windy 
day the syrup is likely to grain ; on a damp dry it may 
take much longer to boil, and may even refuse to stiffen, 
and will need a second boiling. 

These minute directions may discourage some from 

(265) 



266 CLEVEB C00K1:NG 



attempting- fondant, but with a little practice one soon 
learns to avoid "breakers," and becomes fascinated with 
the infinite possibilities for variety. Individual ingenu- 
ity will devise new kinds, so we give but a few which 
have alreadj'^ been tested. 

Peppermints or Wintergreeiis 

Take a portion of the fondant and melt again by 
putting it into a small bowl set in boiling water. When 
melted flavor with 1 or 2 drops of oil of peppermint and 
drop on paraftine paper. For wintergreens use oil of 
wintergreen and color a delicate pink. 

Orange Creams 

Grated rind of 1 orange 1 tablespoonful juice 
Confectioners' sugar to stiffen 

Roll into small balls and dip into fondant melted as 
for peppermints. If the fondant stiffen again with the 
continued heat, add a drop or two of boiling water. Use 
a wide-tined fork for dipping in order that the surplus 
fondant may fall back into the bowl. It will harden 
almost at once on the paraftine paper. Variety of form 
and color is desirable, so we suggest that these creams 
be made round and small, giving the coating a tint of 
orange. 

Lemon Creams are made the same way, using lemon 
in place of orange. These may be moulded into oblong 
pieces. 

Cocoanut Creaiu 

Mix shredded cocoanut into some fondant and flavor 
with vanilla. Form into cones, dip in fondant and 
sprinkle with cocoanut. 

For Fig Creams use chopped figs in place of cocoanut. 

A^uf Oeams are made by using chopped nuts in place 

of cocoanut; flavor w^ith almond, color green. Chopped 

citron, raisins, dates, raspberry jam or chocolate may 

be used instead. 

Mrs. CALVIN E. VILAS. 



CONFECTIONERY 2«7 



French Fondant 

White of 1 egg and. equal amount of cold water 
beaten briskly, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla (or any pre- 
ferred flavoring) and sufticient confectioners' sugar to 
make it stiff enough to form into balls. Before it is 
quite stiff it can be divided and the various portions 
flavored and colored according to fancy. Those balls 
to be covered with chocolate should stand several hours 
before covering. We have found vanilla or pineapple 
better for walnut creams; vanilla with tigs or dates. A 
mixture of flavorings is very nice, such as lemon and 
cinnamon. 

Flavorings and coloring can be varied according to 
taste. Candied fruits cut in small pieces may be en- 
cased in the fondaut or used on top of ball. 

The fruit colorings are preferable and can be ob- 
tained at a grocers. 

French fondant is the simplest way of making candy, 
but we much prefor the cooked fondant, made as above. 

Chocolate Fondant for Dipping- 
Add 2 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate to about 1 
pound of fondant; melt the chocolate and stir the fon- 
dant into it. Nut balls and fig balls dipped in this are 
delicious. 

Walnut Cream.s 

Cook some fondant, flavor with pineapple or vanilla, 
make into balls and put half a walnut on the top. 

Date Creams 

Remove the stones and fill with fondant. 

Staffed Dates 

Remove the stones; have ready blanched walnuts. 
If you leave the nuts in halves use two dates to one piece, 
place one date on each side of the nut and pinch to- 
gether, completely covering the nut, or use one-quarter 
of a walnut and but one date. Roll in granulated sugar. 

Mrs. winfield r. smith. 



268 CLEVEB COOKING 

Maple Ci'eanis 

1 cup water 2 cups maple sugar 

Butter size of a hickory nut 

Boil water and sugar until it is hard: add butter. 

Place candy pan in a pan of cold water and stir until it 

becomes a waxen substance. Make into balls and put a 

walnut on one side. 

Mrs. VVINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Butter Scotch 

2 cups sugar 2 tablespoonfuls water 

Butter size of an egg 

Brown the sugar a little first, then boil without stir- 
ring until it will be crisp wiien dropped in cold water. 
Pour on buttered plates to cool. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R SMITH. 

Peanut Candy 

2 cups confectioners' sugar 1 cup peanut meats 

Put the sugar in a shallow pan to melt; wiien it is 
melted add the peanut meats, which have previously 
been partly broken. Pour into a buttered pan and press 
down quickly with a broad knife, as the mixture har- 
dens very rapidly. 

Mrs. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Peanut Caramel 

1\ cups granulated sugar 1 cup chopped peanuts 

Have the pan hot; pour on the sugar, stirring con- 
stantly until it is caramel, when add quickly the nuts; 
stir once and pour into buttered tins: mark into squares. 
This candy hardens very quickly, so it must be marked 

very soon after it is poured out. 

Mrs. HINCHLIFFE. 

Vassar Fiidg'ies 

2 cups white sugar \ cup hot water 

1 cup sweet milk 2 squares unsweetened 

Butter size of small egg chocolate 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 



CONFECTIONEBY 269 



Put sugar and water in a kettle on the back of the 
stove until the sugar is dissolved; then set the kettle 
over the fire and add the milk and the chocolate. Cook 
until you cap make a soft ball in water. It will need to 
^t;// about fifteen minutes. Add the butter a few min 
utes before it is done, and the last thing add the vanilla. 
Pour into a buttered pan to cool. When cool but not cold 
beat vigorously with a fork until it is stiff enough to cut 
into squares. If this is cooked too much it will be 
sugary and hard. 



Mrs. winfi?:ld r. smith. 



Pinochee 



3 cups finest light brown 1 cup of cream 

sugar Butter size of walnut 

1 tablespoonful vanilla 1 cup walnuts, broken a little 

Boil sugar, cream and butter about twenty minutes 

until when it is dropped in a cup of cold water it can be 

gathered into a ball, soft but not sticky, then remove 

from fire and add vanilla. Put the kettle of candy into 

a pan of cold water and stir until it begins to grain; stir 

in the nuts and pour quickly into buttered pans. Cut 

into squares when cold. If it is stirred too long it will 

be too hard to mould in the pans; if on the other hand, 

it has been poured into the paus too soon, before it is 

sugared, if a fork is run through it in the pans for a 

few moments, it will helj) it grain. Milk can be used by 

adding more butter, but it is not as good, as the candy 

will not be as creamy. When the candy is on the stove 

do not stir at first, and only enough at the last to keep 

from burning. 

MISS BOYER, Walla Walla, Wash. 

Maple sugar may be used in place of brown sugar, 
by melting it first in a very little water, then use a little 
less butter, as it is rather rich, but is delicious. 

Nut Candy 

"1 cups granulated sugar \ cup water 
i teaspoonf 111 cream tartar 1 pound nuts 

Boil sugar and water without stirring until it forms 



270 CLEVER COOKING 

soft ball. When cool stir until it creams, flavor and 
add nuts. Drop on waxed paper. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 

Molasses Nut Candy 

1 cup granulated sugar 4 tablespoonfuls molasses 
4 tablespoonfuls water 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar 
Batter size of an Qgg 1 pound nuts 

Boil all together, except nuts, until it makes a soft 
ball in water. Take from fire and add nuts. Pour on 
buttered plates. Score before it hardens. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 

Molasses Taffy 

2 cups brown sugar 1 cup molasses 

1 tablespoonful vinegar f cup water 

Boil until it makes a crisp ball in cold water. Stir 
in h teaspoonful of soda. Pour on buttered plates to 
cool, then pull. 

Pulled Sugar Can<ly 

4 cups sugar i cup vinegar 

\ cup water 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

Boil without stirring over a quick lire; when it be- 
gins to rope from the spoon drop a small quantity into 
a cup of cold water; if it hardens it is ready to be poured 
upon a buttered dish. Flavor with vanilla. Begin to 
pull as soon as it can be handled, using only the fingers. 

Mrs. THOMAS GREEN. 

Chocolate Caramels 

2 pints brown sugar 1^ squares bakers' choco- 
1 cup new milk late 

Butter size of a walnut 

Boil quickly, stirring all the time. Just before re- 
moving from the fire add vaniUa. Try in cold water; if 
brittle, it is done. Pour in buttered tins to cool. When 
nearly cold mark in squares. 

M. E. BLUM. 



CONFECTIONERY 271 

Butter Scotch 

1 cup molasses 1 cup sugar 

^ cup butter 

Boil until it hardens in water. 

Mrs. V. A. LilTON. 

Hickory Nut Candy 

2 cups sugar flavor \ cup water 

Boil without stirring until thick enough to spin m 
thread. Set the dish into cold water; stir quickly lintil 
white. Stir in 1 cup hickory nuts, turn into a Hat tin. 
When cool cut into squares. 

Mrs. V. A. RITON. 

Popcorn Candy 

2 cups shelled corn 2 tablespoonfuls lai'd 

2 cups molasses 

Pop the corn in the lard when it is smoking hot in a 
deep kettle. Boil molasses until it threads; add 1 table- 
spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour 
over corn, stirring constantly. Pack tightly the corn in 
a deep narrow bread tin. When cold it will slice nicely. 

MISS N. BREWER. 



272 CLEVER COOKING 



TME SIGK ROOM 



A few strong- instincts and a few plain rules. 



Recipes for Invalid Cooking 

Beef Tea — Free a pound of lean beef from fat, tendon, 
cartilage, bone and vessels; chop up fine; put into a 
pint of cold water to digest two hours. Simmer on 
range or stove three hours, but do not boil. Make up 
for water lost by adding cold water, so that a pint of 
beef tea represents one pound of beef. Press beef 
carefully and strain. 

Beef Juice — Cut a thin, juicy steak into pieces one and 
one-half inches square; brown separately one and one- 
half minutes on each side before a hot fire; squeeze, in 
a hot lemon-squeezer; flavor with salt and pepper. 
May add to milk or pour on toast. 

Mutton Broth — Lean loin of mutton, 1^ pounds, in- 
cluding bone; water 3 pints. Boil gently till tender, 
throwing in a little salt and onion according to taste. 
Pour out broth into basin; when cold skim off fat. 
Warm up as wanted. 

Chicken Broth — Skin and chop up small a small 
chicken or half of a large fowl. Boil it, bones and all. 
with a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of rice, and a crust of bread, in a quart of water, for 
an hour, skimming it from time to time. Strain through 
a coarse colander. 

See page inside back cover. 

C. p.— IS (273) 



274 CLEVEE COOKING 

Clam Broth— l^^k^h. thoroughly 6 large clams in shell; 
put in kettle with 1 cup of water; bring to boil and keep 
there one minute; the shells open, the water takes up 
the proper quantity of juice, and the broth is ready to 
pour off and serve hot. 

Cream Soup — Take 1 quart of good stock (mutton or 
veal), cut 1 onion into quarters, slice 3 potatoes very 
thin, and put them into the stock with a small piece of 
mace; boil gently for an hour; then strain out the onion 
and mace; the potatoes should by this time have dis- 
solved in the stock. Add 1 pint of millr, mixed with a 
very little corn flour to make it about as thick as cream. 
A little butter improves it. This soup may be made 
with milk instead of stock, if a little cream is used. 

Apple Soup — Two cups of apple, 2 cups of water, 2 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch, 1 j tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
1 saltspoonful of cinnamon and a bit of salt. Stew the 
apple into the water until it is very soft, then mix to- 
gether into a smooth paste the corn starch, sugar, salt 
and cinnamon with a little cold water; pour this into 
the apple and boil for five minutes; strain it and keep 
it hot until ready to serve. 

Raiv Meat Diet — Scrape pulp from a good steak, sea- 
son to taste, smear on thin slices of bread; sear bread 
slightly and serve as sandwich. 

Nutritious Coffee — Dissolve a little gelatine in water, 
put i ounce of freshly-ground coffee into saucepan with 
1 pint of new milk, which should be nearly boiling be- 
fore the coffee is added; boil both together for three 
minutes; clear it by pouring some of it into a cup and 
dashing it back again; add the gelatine, and leave it to 
settle for a few minutes. Beat up an q^^ in a breakfast 
cup and pour the coffee upon it; if preferred, drink 
without the q^^. 

Rum Punch — White sugar 2 teaspoonfuls, 1 o,^^ 
stirred and beaten up; warm milk, large wineglassful; 
Jamaica rum, 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls; nutmeg. 

HILL'S Maple Syrup. "Genuine." 



THE SICK ROOM 275 



Champagne Whey — Boil \ pint of milk, strain through 
cheese cloth; add 1 wineglass of champagne. 

Toast Water — Toast 3 slices stale bread to dark 
brown, but do not burn. Put into pitcher, pour over 
them 1 quart of boiling water; cover closely and let 
stand on ice until cold; strain. May add wine and 
sugar. 

Rice Water — Pick over and wash 2 tablespoonfuls of 
rice. Put into granite saucepan with 1 quart of boiling 
water; simmer two hours, when rice should be softened 
and partially dissolved; strain, add 1 saltspoonf ul of salt; 
serve warm or cold. May add sherry or port, 2 table- 
spoonfuls. 

Barley Water — Wash 2 ounces (wineglassful) of jjearl 
barley with cold water; boil five minutes in fresh water; 
throw both waters away. Pour on 2 quarts of boiling 
water; boil down to 1 quart. Flavor with thinly-cut 
lemon rind, add sugar to taste. Do not strain unless at 
patient's request. 

Koumiss— 1^-AkG ordinary beer bottle with shifting 
cork; put in 1 pint of milk 1-6 cake of Fleischmann's 
yeast, or 1 tablespoonful of fresh lager beer yeast 
(brewer's), i tablespoonful of white sugar reduced to 
syrup; shake well and allow to stand in refrigerator 
two or three days, when it may be used. It will keep 
there indefinitely if laid on its side. Much waste can 
be saved by preparing the bottles with ordinary corks 
wired in position and drawing off the koumiss with a 
champagne tap. 

Wine Whey — Put 2 pints of new milk in a saucepan 
and stir over a clear fire until nearly boiling; then add 
1 gill (2 wineglassfuls) of sherry and simmer a quarter 
of an hour, skimming off curd as it rises. Add 1 table- 
spoonful more sherry, and skim again, for a few min- 
utes; strain through coarse muslin. May use 2 table- 
spoonfuls lemon juice instead of wine. 
Jtinket — Take \ pint of fresh milk, heated lukewarm. 



See page inside back cover, 



276 CLEVER COOKING 

and 1 teaspoonful essence of pepsin and stir just enough 
to mix. Pour into custard cups, let stand until firmly 
curded; serve plain or with sugar and grated nutmeg. 
May add sherry. 

Baked Flour Porridge — Take 1 pint of flour and pack 
tightly in a small muslin bag; throw into boiling water 
and boil five or six hours; cut off the outer sodden por- 
tion, grate the hard core fine; blend thoroughly with a 
little milk and stir into boiling milk to the desired thick- 
ness. 

Rice Jelly — Mix 1 heaping tables poonful of rice with 
cold water until it is in a smooth paste; add 1 scant pint 
of boiling water, sweeten with loaf sugar; boil until 
quite clear. Flavor with lemon juice. 

Egg- Nog — 1 Qgg. 1 tablespoonful of brandy, 1 table- 
spoonful of sugar, scant i glass of milk. Beat the white 
and yolk of the egg separately; put brandy, sugar and 
milk in a glass and stir thoroughly, then add the beaten 
eggs and serve. 

Rye Coffee 

When one is not allowed coffee or tea a good substi- 
tute can be made by browning rye as cotfee is browned; 
then to 1 cup of rye add 1 cup of cold water. Let it boil 
slowly for ten minutes, then add 2 cups of boiling water 
water and serve with sugar and cream. 

Egg- Broth 

Beat an egg up high in a broth basin; when quite 
frothy stir into it h pint of good mutton or veal broth, 
quite hot, a little salt and serve with toast. 

Tapioca 

Cook over night 2 tablespoonfuls of tapioca in 2 cups 
of water. In the morning add 1 pint of milk, sugar to 
taste and a pinch of salt; simmer until soft, stirring fre- 
quently. When dished add 1 tablespoonful of wine and 

grate over a little nutmeg. 

Mrs. a. J. FISKEN. 

HILL'S Maple Sugar for Frostings. 



THE SICK ROOM 277 



Blanc Mang-e 

Mix 1 tablespooEful of corn starch in a little cold 

water, add ^ pint of boiling water and boil for a few 

moments. Take from the tire and when cold add the 

well beaten white of an Q^g, sugar and flavoring (lemon, 

wine or brandy) and pour into a mould to set. Serve 

with a custard made with k cup of milk, the yolk of the 

Qgg, sugar and flavoring. 

Mrs. SILLITOE. 

Crackers and Cream 

A nicely toasted cracker, with sweet cream poured 
over it, is delicate and nourishing for an invalid. 

Mrs. a. J. FISKEN. 

Iced Egg- 
Beat very light the yolk of 1 egg, with a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar; stir in tumblerful of very finely crushed 
ice; add a tablespoonf ul of brandy and a little grated 
nutmeg. Beat together and drink immediately. 

Mrs. a. J. FISKEN. 

Beef Tea 

Take 2 pounds of lean beef and cut up in pieces half 

an inch long. Put in a double boiler and cover with 

cold water for half an hour; then press with potato 

masher; add a pinch of salt and cook for two hours in 

the double boiler. 

MISS MURRAY. 

Chicken Jelly 

Clean and disjoint a chicken, removing all the fat 
and cut the meat into small pieces; break the bones; 
lay the feet in boiling water; then remove the skin and 
nails. Put the meat, bones and feet into a granite 
saucepan, cover with cold water, heat gradually and 
shnmer till the meat is tender; strain and when cold re- 
move the fat; add salt, pepper, lemon juice and the 
shell and white of an egg. Put it on the stove, stirring 

See page inside back cover. 



278 CLEVER COOKING 

well till hot. Boil five minutes, skim and pour it 

through a fine cloth. Set aside in a mould. Turn out 

and garnish and serve with thin slices of bread and 

butter. 

Mrs. peters. 

Panada for a Nevv-Born Infant 

Take \ a soda cracker or 2 tiny oyster crackers, roll 
them as finely as possible; add a bit of butter the size of 
a pea, sweeten to taste; add a bit of nutmeg. Set this 
upon the stove and add i pint of boiling water and stir 
until it forms a complete jelly. After a babe is two 
months old the butter may be omitted and 2 spoonfuls 
of thick cream added w^hile it is warm. This is the 
recipe of a celebrated physician of Albany, N. Y. , and 
is much better than cows' milk for a young infant. 

Mrs. RIPLEY. 

Panada 

Boil 1 tablespoonful of cracker crumbs five minutes 
in 1 cup of boiling water, slightly sweetened, salted and 
flavored Avith lemon. 

Food for Infants 

Dissolve a pinch of Cox's gelatine in enough cold 
water to cover it, then pour over it i pint of boiling 
w^ater; mix to a paste with a little milk, 1 teaspoonful 
of arrowroot, 1 teaspoonful of granulated sugar and a 
little salt. Add this to the water and gelatine; then add 
sufficient milk to make a pint in all. Put it over the fire 
and let it come to a good boil, stirring often. It is then 
ready for use. To improve this add 1 teaspoonful of 
cream. The proportion of milk may be increased, also 
the cream to 2 tablespoonfuls as the child grows older. 
This food is very easily digested and is particularly 
good for a baby whose digestive organs are weak. 

Mrs. peters. 

HILL'S Maple Syrup. "Genuine." 



THE SICK BOOM 279 



Mustard Plaster 

Mix with boiling water, vinegar or white of an egg 
to the same consistency as when prepared for table use. 
If too strong, add a little flour. Spread one half of a 
thin muslin cloth with the prepared mustard and cover 
the mustard with the other half of the cloth, or put 
mustard on cloth and put over it a thin piece of gauze. 
Apply, and when removed wash the skin w^th a soft 
sponge and apply a little sweet cream or oil to the skin. 

Mustard Poultice 

Take 8 teaspoonfuls of flaxseed meal, flour or corn 
meal, 1 teaspoonful of mustard; pour on boiling water 
until it is of the consistency of mush; spread on cloth 
the same as in mustard plaster recipe, and moisten tlie 
side of the cloth next to the skin and apply wai"m. 

Soda Miut 

In 2 quarts of warm w^ater dissolve \ pound of bicar- 
bonate of soda. When cold, add \ large tablespoonful 
of essence of peppermint. Cook tightly. Good for 
indigestion. 

Cough Mixture No. 1 

An English physician's prescription for a cough or 
weak lungs: 

2 ounces honey 2 ounces cod liver oil 

Juice of 2 lemons 

Put altogether in a bottle and shake until thoroughly 
mixed. Take 1 tablespoonful directly after meals. It 
is an excellent remedy if persevered with. 

Mrs. M. p. ZINDORF. 

Cough ]>Iixture No. 2 

2 ounces juniper berries 2 sticks licorice 

3 grains opium 1 pint New^ Orleans mo- 
1 pint water lasses 

Put all but the opium in a granite vessel and let it 
See page inside back cover. 



280 CLEVEE COOKING 

simmer h^lf the day on the back of the stove. Strain off 
the hquor, add the opium, boil up once and bottle. The 
opium is to scoth the irritation of the throat. 

Mrs. DOUGLAS YOUNG (from an old sea captain). 

For insomnia, a glass of very hot milk has a most 
soothing effect. 

For burns, use a cream made of lime water and olive 
oil. Place the oil in a bowl and add the lime water 
gradually, beating with a silver fork all the time. This 
will make a cream which is very cooling. 

Stings of insects may be relieved by the application 
of ammonia or common table salt, well rubbed in. 

For Cold in the Head — When you first feel the cold 
coming on, put a teaspoonful of sugar in a glass, pour 
upon it six drojjs of camphor, stir and fill the glass half 
full of warm w^ater. Stir this until the sugar is dis- 
solved, then take a dessert spoonful every twenty min- 
utes until relieved. This remedy is good if carefully 
followed. 



HILL'S Maple Sugar for Frostings. 



BEWERAGES 



" Pay re ladye drink. 
But leave a kiss on ye brim." 



Palace Hotel (San Francisco) Coflfee Blend 

40 per cent best Old Government Java 
40 per cent best Costa Rica 
20 per cent Mocha 

Mr. homer F. NORTON. 

Coffee 

Allow 1 large tablespoonf ul of coffee to 1 cup. Put 
the coffee in the pot and first cover with cold water; 
stand over the fire until it comes to a boil, then move 
back on the stove where it will just keep below the boil- 
ing point. Add to it, a little at a time, sufficient boiling 
water to make the required amount. Do not boil. It 

needs no clearing. 

Mrs. WINPIELD R. SMITH. 

Cliocolate 

Allow for each large cup (coffee cup) of chocolate 1 
tablespoonful of Ghirardelli's or Halliard's chocolate, 
scraped; 1 coffee cup of milk, heated; 1 teaspoonful 
of brandy or 1 tablespoonful of sherry; sugar to taste if 
the unsweetened chocolate is used. Add enough water 
to the chocolate to dissolve it; add the sugar, if needed, 
and let come to a boil; add the hot milk, a nd when it 

See page inside back cover. 

(281) 



282 CLEVER COOKING 



boils up again, pour into the chocolate pot onto the 
brandy or sherry, and if the chocolate is unflavored, a 
little vanilla. Serve at once. 

Mrs CALVIN VILAS. 

Cocoa 

Cocoa Milk Vanilla 

For each cupful wanted take 1 teaspoonful (good) 
of cocoa; dissolve it in enough boiling water to make it 
about the consistency of cream. For each spoonful of 
cocoa used take 1 cupful of good rich milk (one-third 
water may be used if preferred) and let it come to the 
boiling point; add the cocoa, stirring carefully, and let 
it boil two minutes. Sweeten to taste, usually about 1 
teaspoonful of sugar to a cup of cocoa, just before re- 
moving, and when it is taken off the fire flavor with a 
little vanilla. This is improved by serving with 

whipped cream. 

Mrs. CHARLES I. RILEY. 

Raspberry Shrub 

4 quarts raspberries 1 quart cider vinegar 

Put berries and vinegar together and let stand for- 
ty-eight hours. Strain and add 1 pound of sugar to 
each pint of juice. Boil about ten minutes. Bottle and 

cork tight. 

Mrs. homer F. NORTON. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

3 gallons ripe red raspberries 
1 gallon cider vinegar 

Crush the raspberries thoroughly to a pulp. Pour 

the vinegar over the crushed fruit and allow it to stand 

two days. Strain as for jelly; add 1 pound of sugar to 

each pint of juice. Allow it to come to a boil, and bottle 

while scalding hot. Seal the corks, and set away in a 

cool dark place. 

Mrs. J. D. LOWMAN. 

HILL'S Maple Syrup. "Genuine." 



BEVERAGES 283 



Blackberry Cordial 

Squeeze blackberries enough to make a quart of 
juice, add to it a pound of loaf sugar and let it dissolve, 
heating slowly. Add to it 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg. Boil all together twenty min- 
utes. On removing from the fire add a wineglassful of 
brandy. Put in bottles while hot and seal. Use a tea- 
spoonful for a glass of iced water. 

Mrs. WM. H. DE wolf. 



Blackberry Wine 

Wash the berries and pour on 1 quart of boiling 
water to each gallon of berries. Let the mixture stand 
twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally; then strain and 
add 2 pounds of sugar and 1 pint best rye whiskey, or 
\ pint alcohol, to each gallon of juice. Cork tightly and 
let stand until October, when rack off and bottle. 



Scotch Ginger Beer 

2 gallows water 2 pounds white sugar 

2 ounces ginger root 4 lemons 

h yeast cake Whites of 2 eggs 

Cut the lemons and bruise the ginger root, mixing 

them with the sugar and water; boil, strain and set to 

cool; then add the yeast. Let it stand thirty -six hours; 

then add the well beaten whites of the eggs. Bottle, 

tightly cork, and in two days it will evervesce and be 

ready for use. 

Mrs. THOMAS W. PROSCH. 



See page inside back cover. 



284 CLEVEB COOKING 



MISCELLANEOUS 



"There's lots of religion in a beefsteak, if you give it to the 
right man at the right time."'— Jerry McAidey. 



Good Kitchen and Laundry Soap 

1 bar of good laundry soap shaved thin, 3 pints of 
water, 2 large tablespoonfuls of salsoda and 1 of borax. 
Let this boil until all dissolved, then take from the stove 
and add 1 tablespoonful of turpentine and H of am- 
monia. 

Mrs. R. C. WASHBURN. 

Soft Soap 

1 can Babbit's lye 3 pounds fat 

2i gallons boiling water 

Dissolve the lye in the water, put in fat and cook ten 

hours. One hour before taking off the lire add 2 gallons 

more water, and after it is taken off add as much more 

water as you have of this mixture, which will make 

about nine gallons of soap. 

Mrs. NEUFELDER. 

Meat Pickle 

6 gallons water pounds salt 

1 quart molasses 3 ounces saltpeter 

1 ounce soda 3 pounds coarse brown 

sugar 

Boil and skim until clear and add to the meat cold. 
The meat should be closely packed and a weight placed 
on top before the pickle is added. This rule is sufficient 

See page inside back cover. 

(S85) 



286 CLEVER COOKING 

for a barrel of meat and half the quantity is enough for 
a quarter of beef. 

Mrs. a. T. TIM merman. 

Corned Beef 

Get a piece of round beef from below the hip (with 
the bone attached), weighing thirteen or fourteen 
pounds. Rub over it a mixture of 1 teaspoonful of salt- 
petre and 1 tablespoonful of sugar; then rub 1 large 
handful of salt very thoroughly into each side of it, get- 
ting into all the creases. Set away in a cool place and 
baste it w^ell every day for eight days in its own liquor, 
being careful to turn it over each day. Boil it about six 
hours or until tender. Better when eaten cold, thinly 

sliced. 

MTSS COLLINS. 

Caramel 

1 teacup sugar 4 tablespoonf uls water 

Put in a skillet over hot fire, stirring constantly un- 
til thoroughly burnt, when add enough water to make a 
thin syrup. Bottle. This will keep any length of time 
and is used for coloring soups and gi^avies. 

Mrs. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 

Spinach Green 

Pound a quantity of spinach in a mortar; put the pulp 
in a muslin bag and twist and squeeze out the juice; add 
a quarter of its weight in sugar, heat it till reduced one- 
half and bottle. This is used to color soups, ices and 
candies. 

Mrs. M. a. KELLOGG. 

Koux 

Not quite twice as much flour as butter; melt butter; 

stir in flour; stir until smooth, then add boiling water 

until it is as thick as boiled starch; will keep a long 

time and is very nice for soups. For croquettes add 

milk. 

ISABEL JONES. 

HILL'S Maple Syrup. "Genuine." 



MISCELLANEOUS 287 



Celery Viiieg-ar 

Soak 1 ounce of celery seed in ^ pint of vinegar; bot- 
tle it and use to flavor soups and gravies. 

THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Pure Baking Powder 

9 ounces cream of tartar 4^ ounces bicarbonate soda 
2^ ounces flour or corn starch 

Sift thoroughly several times and keep in a dry 

place. 

C. HOWELL KIRBY. 

Cleansing Fluid 

I ounce chloroform w ounce ether 

^ ounce oil of wintergreen 1 ounce alcohol 

Shake well and add h gallon of deodorized benzine. 

One-half this quantity makes a large bottle full. This 

mixture is highly inflammable and should not be used 

at night or near a fire. Is especially nice for cleaning 

gloves. 

Mrs. M. F. backus. 

How to Wash Blankets 

Use warm (not hot) water and add to each gallon a 
tablespoonful of ammonia and the same quantity of 
powdered borax. Put the blankets in and rub through 
the hands and rinse up and down. Wring by hand. 
Prepare another tub of water of the same temperature 
in the same way, using a little less ammonia and borax; 
the last tub (and three are usually required) need not 
contain any and ought to look entirely clean when the 
blankets come out. Choose a bright day. 

Mrs. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 

To Wash Flannels 

Two bars of Ivory soap, 4^ gallons of soft water, 2 
ounces of borax, ammonia enough to give a strong odor. 
Use a cupful of the preparation in tepid water when 

See page inside back cover. 



288 CLEVER COOKING 

washing flannels; it will remove all dirt and the flannels 

will not shrink. 

Mrs. H. C. henry. 

To Remove Stains 

Take an ounce of hartshorn and one of salts of tartar; 
mix them well; add a pint of soft water and bottle for 
use. Keej) very tightly corked always. To use, pour 
a little of the liquid in a saucer and wash in it white 
articles which are stained with ink. mildew, fruit or 
wine. Rinse carefully in cold water, after the stains 
are removed; then wash in the usual manner. 

Mrs. RIPLEY. 

Library Paste 

This will not sour and will keep indeflnitely. One 
tablespoonful of flour mixed dry with i teaspoonful of 
powdered alum. Mix smoothly with a teas^DOonful of 
cold water; then set on the stove and pour in about 2 
teaspoonfuls of boiling water. Cook until very thick, 
taking care not to let it burn. A few drops of perfume 
may be added. Put in a wide-mouthed bottle. 

Furniture Polisli 

i pint raw linseed oil 1 gill alcohol 

1 gill strong coffee 

Shake well and add 1 gill of soft water. 

Mrs. a. W. ENGLE. 

Chilblaines 

Rub thoroughly and frequently with oil of lavender; 
or with coarse common salt. 

Coloring lor Finger Nails 

1 part tincture benzoine 2 parts alcohol 
Eosine to color a deep red 

Apply with camel's hair brush, and polish. 



HILL'S Maple Sugar for Frostings. 



MISCELLANEOUS 280 

Tooth Powder 

Powdered pumice with a drop or two of oil of gera- 
nium in it. 

Lotion for tbe Skin 

1 part glycerine (3 parts rose water 

^ part tincture benzoine 

This is good for sun-burn, wind-burn, or chaps. It 
makes a milky mixture. Keej) tightly corked. 

Hair Wash 

1 ounce borax i ounce camphor 

Powder these ingredients fine; dissolve them in 1 
quart of boiling water. When cool, the solution is ready 
for use. Dampen the hair frequently. The camphor 
will form into lumps after being dissolved, but the water 
will be sufficiently impregnated. 

Mrs. ISAAC H. JENNINGS. 

Cold Cream 

1| drachms white wax li drachms spermaceti 

i ounce oil of sweet almonds 

Melt the spermaceti and wax together, add the oil; 

then beat up into this mixture 30 minims tincture of 

benzoine, 2 tablespoonfuls rose water: attar of roses or 

any perfume desired. Beat with a Dover egg beater 

until the cream thickens. 

Mrs. CURTIS. 

w box of gelatine will make 1 quart of jelly. The 
quart, however, must include the water used in soaking 
and dissolving the gelatine. Always soak gelatine in 
cold water until perfectly soft, then pour boiling water 
upon it to dissolve it. Granulated gelatine dissolves 
very rapidly and needs but a few moments to soften it. 
On \ box of gelatine put h cup cold water to soften it. 
and from i cup to 1 cup of boiling water to dissolve it. 

To take the taste of onion from knives, etc., slice up 
a raw potato. 

See page inside back covex'. 

C. C— 19 



290 CLEVER COOKING 



Mix a mustard plaster with the white of an egg to 
prevent blistering. 

To keep silver bright rinse in hot water with house- 
hold ammonia; 1 teaspoonful to 1 quart . 

To take fish odor from pans, wash with strong soda 
water. 

''A Sweet Disposition— ThreQ grains common sense, 
1 large heart, 1 good liver, plenty of fresh air and sun- 
light 1 bushel contentment and 1 good husband. Do 
not bring to a boil." 

Cornstarch is a good substitute for eggs in cookies 
and doughnuts. One tablespoonful is equal to an egg. 

A very good substitute for cream in coffee may be 
made by pouring 1 cup of scalded milk onto a beaten egg 
and adding a bit of butter size of a pea. 

To Take Grease From C/t*///— Make a paste of Fuller's 
earth and turpentine. Rub on fabric until turpentine 
evaporates and a white powder remains. The latter 
can be brushed off, and the grease will have disap- 
peared. 

To keep glass jars from breaking when pouring in 
boiling fruit, wrap a cold wet cloth around the jar. 

To remove tar or pitch, rub well with clean lard, 
afterwards wash with soap and warm water. For either 
hands or clothing. 

In making corn bread always have the bowl you mix 
it in hot. 

To keep fruit from raising to the top of the jar, cook 
in a thick syrup and lay the can on its side. 

If a clove of garlic is kept in salad oil. it will give 
the hint of garlic desirable in salad, and keep the oil 
from getting rancid. — Mrs. T. M. Daidton. 



HILL'S Maple Syrup. "Genuine." 



MISCELLANEOUS 291 



Lime water is an important factor in the nursery, 
and no mother Avould neglect its use, if she realized its 
effect on the bones and teeth of growing children. — Mrs. 
L. L. Moore. 

Strew the store room shelves with a few cloves, to 
drive away ants. 

Ink spots, when fresh, may be removed by washing 
in sweet milk. 

A little salt rubbed on a discolored eggspoon will 
remove the stains. 

To take out fruit stains, stretch the stained part 
over a bowl and pour on boiling water. 

Clean white ivory knife handles or white marble 
with damp salt. 

Clean the outside of windows in cold weather with 
kerosene. 

For new windows use alcohol; it cuts the putty 
and oil. 

Put a few drops of ammonia on a moist cloth to 
clean windows. Vinegar is also good for the same 
purpose. 

One lemon is usually equal to two tablespoonfuls of 
juice. 

Meats ami Their Accoinpaninieiit.s 

With roast beef : Tomato sauce, grated horse-radish, 
mustard, cranberry sauce, pickles. 

With roast port : Apple sauce, cranberry sauce. 

With roast veal : Tomato sauce, mushroom sauce, 
onion sauce and cranberry sauce. Horse-radish and 
lemons are good. 

With roast mutton: Currant jelly, caper sauce. 

With boiled mutton : Onion sauce, caper sauce. 

With boiled fowls : Bread sauce, onion sauce, lemon 
sauce, cranberry sauce, jellies, also cream sauce. 

See page inside back cover. 



292 CLEVER COOKING 

With roast lamb : Mint sauce. 

With roast turkey : Cranberry sauce, currant jelly. 

With boiled turkey: Oyster sauce. 

With venison or wild ducks : Cranberry sauce, cur- 
rant jelly or currant jelly warmed with port wine. 

With roast goose: Apple sauce, cranberry sauce, 
grape or currant jelly. 

With boiled fresh mackerel: Stewed gooseberries. 

With boiled blnefish : White cream sauce, lemon 
sauce. 

With boiled shad : Mushroom sauce, parsley or ag,^ 
sauce. 

With fresh salmon : Green peas, cream sauce. 

Pickels are good with all roast meats. 

Spinach is the proper accompaniment to veal. 

Lemon juice makes a very grateful addition to nearly 
all the insipid members of the fish kingdom. Slices of 
lemon cat into very small dice and stirred into drawn 
butter and allowd to come to the boiling point, forms a 
very nice sauce to serve with fowls. 

Serve cranberry sherbet with roast turkey. 

Who Shall Be First 

There are different opinions regarding the propriety 
of serving first the most distinguished guest — the lady at 
the right of the host or the hostess herself. The cus- 
tom of serving the hostess first which obtains so largely 
has its origin far back in the olden times when po/so/n'ng- 
was much in vogue and it was deemed wiser and safer 
to observe whether the hostess partook of a dish before 

one tasted it oneself. 

Mrs. D. C. GARRETT. 

The Expert J Vcu'tress s-dys: There are good reasons 
for serving the lady of the house first, although this 
rule is often waived to do honor to the distinguished 
guest for whom luncheon or dinner is given. In a 
country house several distinguished guests or dear 
friends are entertained at one time; to serve the hostess 

HILL'S Maple Sugar for Frostings. 



MISCELLANEOUS 293 



first and follow a rog-ular order along the table makes 
no distinction. Novelties are often inti'oduced, both in 
food and in service. Dishes are served before which a 
guest hesitates as to which fork or which spoon to use 
until he glances at his hostess to see which one she 
takes up. * * vv ^ hostess who takes pride in 
having her forks made to suit sjoecial courses, like 
asjDaragus, and who has several forks laid by each plate 
before dinner is served, finds it necessary to take up 
the right one before her guests make a choice. I have 
in mind a dinner where the hostess delayed the tasting 
of a course, the absent-minded host took the wrong fork, 
some guests took one and some another. The butler 
did his best to replace the right ones; but after all his 
eiforts, somebody had a wrong fork to the end of the 
dinner. 



See page inside back cover. 



294 CLEVER COOKING 

MENUS. 

W/n'c/i May Be Prepared for $2.00. 

Cream of Celery 
Boiled Salmon, Sauce Hollandaise 
Cucumbers 
Roast Beef Yorkshire Pudding- 

Stuffed Tomatoes 
Pecan Salad 
Fruit Jelly Coffee 



Clear Soup 
Sweetbreads in Cream 
Roasted Duck, Walnut Stuffing- 
Rice Balls Aspai-agus 
Fruit Salad 
Queen Pudding 
Coffee 



Tomato Soup 

Halibut a la Creme 

Panned Chicken, Cream Sauce 

Peas Chestnut Croquetlse 

Mayonnaise of Celery 

Pineapple Ice Cake 

Coffee 



Consomme Julienne 

Fish Cream Cutlets, Lemon Sauce 

Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce 

Peas Potato Balls 

Salad of Asparagus Tips 

Prune Float 

Coffee 

HILL'S Maple Syrup. "Genuine." 



MISCELLANEOUS 



295 



MENUS 

W/iic/i Maj Be Prepared for $i.oo. 





Oyster Bisque 






Baked Salmon, Stuffed 




String Beans 


Tomato Baskets 


Potatoes 


Crackers 


Coffee 


Cheese 



Tomato Soup with Stock 

Broiled Steak Potatoes on Half Shell 

]\Iacaroni with Cheese 

Apple Salad 

BaJiana Puff's 

Coffee 



Broiled Chops 



Steamed Clams 

Potato Chips 

Lett u CO Sulad 

Orcin.L,e Pudding 

Coffee 



Peas 



Barley Soup 
Veal Cutlets, Tomato Sauce 
Escalloped Potatoes 

Beet Salad 

Apple Scallop 

Coffee 



See page inside back cover. 



Spinach 



UNGLASSIFIED 



■'Table talk to be perfect should be sincere without bigotrj^ 
differing without discord, sometimes grave, always agi'eeable, 
touching on deep points, d welling most on reasonable ones, and 
letting everybody speak and be heard." — Leigh Hunt. 



5 eggs 1 quart flour 

1\ pints new milk 3 tablespoonfuls yeast 

2 teaspoonfuLs salt 

Beat the eggs very light, add the flour and the milk 

and yeast: set to rise over night. In the morning stir 

them down with a spoon just as you are ready to bake 

them. They are better baked in the oven than in waffle 

irons. 

Mrs. gilbert S. MEEM. 

Louisiana Okra Gumbo 

1 pint okra, fresh or 1 can Eastern oysters 

canned 1 spring chicken 

1 tablespoonful lard Onion to taste 

1 teaspoonful flour 

Fry the chicken, cut in joints, in the hot lard until a 

nice brown; add flour, brown; then onion and okra; fr^' 

a nice brown; add the drained oysters, fry all about ten 

minutes; then add 3 quarts boiling water, including 

oyster liquor. Cook until chicken is tender; season 

highly, not forgetting a dasli of cayenne pepper. Serve 

as soup, but accompanied by rice cooked a la Cn'ole, 

that is every grain separate. 

Mrs. a. B. ALLAIN. 

HILL'S Maple Sugar for Frostings. 

(296) 



UNCLASSIFIED 297 



Crab Bisque 

Take 1 good pint of crabs, 1 light pint of tine bread 
crumbs or crackers; mix thorouglily, adding 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, onion to taste; season highly. Fry 
this mixture in hot lard ten minutes, then add 2 quarts 
boiling water, let boil twenty minutes and serve. De- 
licious soup. 

Mrs. a. B. ALLAIN. 

French Oy.ster Soup 

1 can Eastern oysters 1 tablespoonful lard 

1 tablespoonful butter Onion to taste 

1 teaspoonful flour 1 cup milk 

Make a roux by browning Hour in hot lard in soup 
kettle; then fry the onion; then the oysters previously 
drained; add 2 quarts boiling water, including the oys- 
ter liquid; then the butter, season to taste and boil 
twenty minutes. At the last add small teacup of milk 

to color the soup. 

Mrs. a. B. ALLAIN. 

Jambalaya 

Take any cold meat, fowl preferred, chop rather 
fine, add same quantity of cooked rice, a little onion, 1 
tablespoonful of butter, season highly with cayenne, 
and fry in hot lard or butter. 

Mrs. a. B. ALLAIN. 

Nut Jelly Salad 

In a saucepan put 3 cupfuls of English walnut meats, 

2 slices of onion, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 blades of mace, 
2 bay leaves. Cover with boiling water, and boil ten 
minutes, drain and drop into ice water until needed. 
Then dry thoroughly in a towel and with a sharp knife 
cut (not chop) each nut into several pieces and add 
enough mayonnaise to mix well together. 

In a clean saucepan put 1 quart of boiling water, 4 
cloves, 2 blades of mace, i teaspoonful of celery seed, 1 
slice of onion, 1 bay leaf, 4 slices of carrot, 2 slices of 

See page inside back cover. 



298 CLEVER COOKING 

turnip, 2 teaspoonfiils of beef extract and simmer gently 
for thirty minutes. Season to taste, add f box of gela- 
tine, which has been soaked in water, and stir till dis- 
solved. Strain very carefully and add 4 tablespoonfuls 
of tarragon vinegar. Have ready a dozen medium sized 
timbale moulds dipped in cold water. Pour into them 
the aspic and put away until set. Then scoop out the 
center of each and fill with the nut mixture. Put the 
fragments of jelly where they will melt without heat- 
ing, and when liquid put a little over the top of each 
mould. Keep on ice until ready to use, then turn out 
and serve on lettuce leaves, garnishing with mayonnaise 
and paprika. — From Tabic Talk. 

Walnut Salatl 

Shell \ pound of English walnuts, throw them into 
boiling water and remove the skin, then put them into 
stock, add 1 slice of onion. 1 bay leaf and cook for twenty 
minutes; a few almond nuts may be added and a hand- 
ful of pine nuts. Mix these with 2 chopped apples and 
mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. Bits 
of cold boiled chicken may also be mixed with the may- 
onnaise and apples. Pare and core the aj^ples and cut 
them into dice. 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS. 

Chestnut and Knglisli Walnut Salad 

Prepare the walnuts as for walnut salad. Have the 
chestnuts shelled and blanched; boil till they are soft 
and tender. Mix the walnuts and chestnuts together, 
pour over a French dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 
Celery may be cut into small pieces and mixed with 
them. Apples may be used instead of the celery; gar- 
nish with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. S. T. RORER and THE HOUSEHOLD NEWS CO. 

New England Sausage 

To each pound of pork (from the ham, little more 
lean than fat) add 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 teaspoonful 

HILL'S Maple Syrup. "Genuine." 



UNCLASSIFIED 299 



sage, ^ teaspoonfui black pepper and i teaspoonful red 
pepper. Mix all together thoroughly. Cut cloth for 
bags eight inches wide and two or three feet long; press 
the meat in as solidly as possible. 

Mrs. STROUT. 

(J reamed Chicken 

1 chicken, about 3 pounds 14^ pounds sweetbreads 
1 can mushrooms 1 pint cream 

1 tablespoonful flour 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Salt and pepper 

Cut the chicken, which has been previously cooked, 
into dice, cut the mushrooms into quarters, parboil the 
sweetbreads and cut like the chicken. Let the cream 
come to boiling point in double boiler; cream half the 
butter and the flour and stir into the cream; cook till it 
thickens and seas(m. Butter an escallop dish, and put 
in chicken, sweetbreads, mushrooms and sauce in lay- 
ers with sauce on top. Cover with crumbs, dot with the 
remaining tablespoonful of butter and bake one hour. 

Mrs. W. I. ADAMS. 

Yellow Soup 

1 quart stock ^ cup small sago (scant) 

1 quart milk 4 eggs (yolks only) 

Cook the sago in the stock till clear; scald the milk 
and add to the cooked sago and stock: season. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs in the tureen and carefully pour the 
boiling soup over them. Beat thoroughly and serve 
immediately. Any stock may be used, but half veal and 
half chicken makes a very delicate soup. 

Mrs. W. I. ADAMS. 

Raspberry Meringue 

Line a pie plate with good light pastry and bake in 
a quick oven. While still warm, spread thickly with 
red raspberries. Make a meringue of the whites of 4 
eggs beaten stiff with i cup of powdered sugar and 
when it is a froth stir lightly through it \ pint of 

See page inside back cover. 



300 CLEVEB COOKING 

raspberries. Heap the meringue on top of the berries 
in the pie plate and brown very dehcately in the oven. 

Mrs. W. H. DE wolf. 

Potted Herrings 

IVi'/l Serve Foicr Persons. 

1 dozen herrings i teacup vinegar and water 

Flour, pepper and salt 

Clean thoroughly, remove roe; remove head and tail 
and slip out bone, sprinkle with flour, pepper and salt; 
roll up neatly and pack in deep dish, sprinkle over with 
flour, pepper and salt; pour over vinegar and water 
and bake thoroughly; they should show a nice brown; 
to be eaten cold. Use Crosse & Blackweli's malt vine- 
gar if possible. 

Mrs. WEBSTER BROWN. 

Potted Salmon 

Take some cold boiled salmon and pound in a mor- 
tar; add pepper, salt and ground herbs, a liberal quan- 
tity of butter; mix thoroughly and pack lightly into 
small jars; cover with melted butter. 

Mrs. STILLITOE. 



" Some hae meat and canna eat, 
And some would eat that want it, 
But we hae meat, and we can eat, 
Sae let the Lord be thankit." 

— Burns. 



CLEVER COOKING 301 



REASONS WHY 

BABY Should eat S. C. Co. Fancy Rolled Oats: It makes 
muscle and bone. 

CHILDREN Should eat S. C. Co. Fancy Rolled Oats: It 
supplies the forces necessary to lusty g-rowth. 

MIDDLE -AG ED should eat S. C. Co. Fancy 
Rolled Oats: It is the g'reat regulator and tissue 
builder. 

THE AGED should eat S. €. Co. Fancy Rolled Oats: 
Nutritious, easily digested. 

A HOME PRODUCT, MANUFACTURED BY 

SEATTLE CREAL CO., 

SEATTLE 

I^Ask for the Diamond Brand 



A. M. TODHUNTER TEL. MAIN 59 

DELICATESSEN 

EPICUREANS' RESORT FOR TABLE DELICACIES 

Sliced Boiled Ham and Picnic Outfits a Speciality 

Our Eggs are from the Largest Ranch in this State. The only agents in town 
for Cudahy Bros. XXX Hams and Bacon 

808 SECOND AVENUE, SEATTLE 



ICE ICE ICE 

Oh ! yes, I-Ce, something very cold — Nice 
to have about on a warm day — No dinner 
complete without it. If you want a pure 
article tele])hone to the : : : : 

MERCHANTS' DELIVERY CO. 

TEL. PIKE 159 

Sole Agents Diamond, National and Union Ice Companies 

AVe are exclusive agents for at,i. the puke ice sold or made on Puget 
Sound, and warn our customers against the danger of using ice made in 
slaughter houses that is offered for sale in this city. 



NDEX 



SOUPS- Page 

Asparagus Soup 8 

Black Bean Soup 9 

Bouillon 1 

Brown Soup Stock a 

Celery Soup 10 

Cheese Soup 4 

Claret Soup ti 

Crab Bisque, see Unclassified. 

Crab Soup 5 

Cream of Mutton Soup 3 

Croutons for Soup 13 

French Oyster Soup, see Unclassitied 

Green Pea Soup 7 

Green Turtle Soup 4 

Laura's Soup (Tomato) 10 

Louisiana Okea Gumbo, see Unclas- 
sified. 

Mock Chicken Soup 4 

Noodles v> 

Oyster Soup 5 

Potato Soup 9 

Puree Printanler Maigre _ 8 

Spice Soup 3 

Spinach Soup 7 

Split Pea Soup No. 1 6 

Split Pea Soup No. 8 (5 

Tomato Soup No. 1 11 

Tomato Soup No. 2 11 

Tomato Soup No. 3.. li 

Tomato Soup No. 4 12 

Turtle Bean Soup 9 

Veal Soup 3 

Vegetable Oyster Soup lo 

Vert Pre Soup 7 

Yellow Soup, see Unclassified. 

FISH— 

Baked Fish 16 

Baked Salmon . i<) 

Boiled Fish 15 

Broiled Fish 17 

Clam Chowder 24 

Clam Pot Pie 23 

Creamed Fish 19 



Yl^a— Continued Page 

Devilled Clams No. 1 88 

Devilled Clams No. 2 33 

Escaloped Halibut 20 

Fish Cream Cutlets 18 

Fish Croquettes 81 

Fish (How to Buy) 15 

Fish Turbot 18 

Flaked Fish Steamed 18 

Fried Fish 17 

Halibut a la Poulette 31 

Salmon in Mould 20 

Smelts 17 

Steamed Clams 82 

Waldorf Clam Broth 23 

OYSTERS— 

Bouillon 24 

Cocktail 24 

Beure Noir 26 

Creamed 25 

Fricassee 25 

Frizzled 25 

Olympia on Toast 27 

Served in Shells 26 

Small Fry 26 

Toasted Oysters 27 

MEATS— 

Beef Loaf 36 

Brains 37 

Braised Short Ribs 30 

Corned Beef (Boiled Dinner) 31 

Creamed Frogs 37 

Curried Mutton 33 

Ducks, Native Wild 38 

Egg Dumplings 34 

French Mutton Stew 34 

French Ragout 36 

Game Birds, broiled 39 

Jellied Tongue 33 

Jellied Veal 35 

Leg of Lamb with Dressing 30 

Legof Mutton 31 

Pressed Meat 36 

Quail au Delire 39 



HILL'S Maple Syrup. 

(302) 



"Genuine." 



INDEX 



803 



M^ATSi— Continued Page 

Roast Beef 29 

Sausages 35 

Spiced Beef 34 

Stewed Pigeons 38 

Tongue with Sweet Gravy 3a 

Veal Cutlets 31 

Veal Loaf No. 1 35 

Veal Loaf No. 2 35 

Venison Steak 38 

MEAT AND FISH SAUCES— 

Anchovy Sauce 43 

Bearnaise Sauce 43 

Becbamel Sauce 47 

Bread Sauce 45 

Brown Sauce 41 

Caper Sauce 41 

Celery Sauce 42 

Chestnut Sauce 47 

Cream Sauce 44 

Drawn Butter 41 

Egg Sauce 41 

HoUandaise Sauce 43 

Horse Radish Sauce.. 43 

Lemon Sauce _ 45 

Meat Sauce 46 

Mint Sauce 42 

Mushroom Sauce 42 

Olive Sauce 43 

Parsley Butter 43 

Sauce Allemande 44 

Sauce Bordelaise 46 

Sauce Piquante 41 

Sauce for Vegetables 45 

Sauce Tartare 46 

Tomato Sauce 46 

White Sauce 44 

Wine Sauce 43 

A LITTLE DINNER 49 

ENTREES— 

Baked Mushrooms 66 

Banana Fritters 73 

Blanquette of Chicken eo 

Bread Croquettes 61 

Breaded Sweetbreads 64 

Celeried Oysters 67 

Chestnut Croquettes 63 

Chicken Jelly 59 

Chicken Patties 70 

Chicken Terrapin 59 

Chicken Timbales, see Breakfast 
an.'l Luncheon. 

Cold Venison 61 

Cold Weather Dish 57 

Crab a la Roi 7i; 



'E'^T'KF.F.S— Continued Page 

Crab Chops No. 1 70 

Crab Chops No. 2 71 

Crab Cutlets 71 

Crab Pates a la Creole 72 

Cream Chicken 60 

Creamed Chicken, see Unclassified. 

Creamed Sweetbreads 64 

Croustades of Asparagus 66 

Curry Hawaiian 55 

Devilled Crabs 70 

Fruit Entree 67 

Kidneys 63 

Lobster Baskets 67 

Macaroni Slufato 56 

Macaroni, Turkish way 57 

Mock Sweetbreads 65 

Mock Terrapin 58 

Mushroom Entree 66 

Olympia Oysters and Fresh Mush- 
rooms 69 

Oysteis a la Poulette 68 

Oyster Kabobs 68 

Oyster Patties No. 1 69 

Oyster Patties No. 2 69 

Potato Patties 65 

Russian Entree 56 

Salmon Cutlets 73 

Salted Almonds 74 

Steak and Kidney Pudding 63 

Sweetbread Fritters 65 

Sweetbread Patties 64 

Sweetbreads .• 63 

Turkey Croquettes 61 

Veal and Macaroni ,57 

Veal Croquettes with String Beans 62 

Veal Olives 56 

Veal or Chicken as Terrapin 58 

CHEESE— 

Cheese Crackers 75 

Cheese Fondu No. 1 76 

Cheese Fondu No. 3 76 

Cheese Souffle 75 

Cheese Straws No. 1 75 

Cheese Straws No. 2 75 

Genoa Ramaquius 75 

Welsh Rarebit No. 1 74 

Welsh Rarebit No. 2 74 

CHAFING DISH— 

Cheese Fondu 86 

Cheese Omelet e 81 

Co ned Beef Hash a la Murrey 83 

Creamed Sweeibread^ 8; 

Curried Oysters or Clams 85 

Fresh Mushrooms 87 

F icassee of Oysters §4 



See page inside back cover. 



304 



INDEX 



CHAFING D\Sn~Continned Page 

Lobster or Crab a la Newburg _ 82 

Oysters a la Creme 84 

Oyster Maitre d'Hot 1 85 

Oyster Omelett 81 

Oyster Toast 85 

Peas Omelette 81 

Plain Omelette 80 

Scrambled Eggs 80 

Shrimps a la Creole 86 

Shrimps a la Poule te 88 

Sweetbreads 81 

Sweetbreads With Peas Kil 

Welsh Rarebit No. 1 and No. ',' 81 

SALADS— 

A Dainty "Way to Serve Chicken 

Salad i»9 

Apple and Celery Salad S»0 

Apple Salad No. 1 90 

Apple Salad No. 2 96 

Asparagus and Chicken Salad 95 

Asparagus Salad 97 

Beet Salad 97 

Cauliflower 99 

Celery as a Garnish 98 

Chestnut and English Walnut 
Salad, see Unclassified . 

Cooked Salad Dressing 91 

Cream Salad Dressing 91 

Cucumber and Sweetbread 98 

Egg Salad 93 

Fruit Macedoine 98 

Fruit Salad * 93 

Golden Chestnut 98 

Herring Salad 91 

Lactiola Dressing 93 

Lobster Salad 93 

Macedoine 95 

Mayonnaise No. 1 89 

Mayonnaise No. 3 90 

Nut Jelly Salad, see Unclassified . 

Orange 99 

Oyster 100 

Pecan Salad 100 

Potato 95 

Polato Salad with Apples 96 

Salad Dressing i Potato) 92 

Salad Dressing 9S 

Salmon Salad No. 1 94 

SHlmon Salad No. •.> 94 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing 91 

Tomato Baskets 100 

Tomato Jelly Salad 97 

Tomato Salad 97 

Tuffle Salad 99 

Veal Salad with Nuts 93 

Walnut Salad, see Unclassified. 



Page 
A COLD LUNCH FOR A HOT DAY 101 

VEGETABLES— 

Baked Onions 110 

Boiled Cabbage 107 

Boiled Cucumbers 113 

Catachis Ill 

Cauliflower au Gratin 115 

Cauliflower With Cream Dressing. 114 

Celery 110 

Corn Dodgers r,3 

Corn Fritters 115 

Creamed Carrots 108 

Creamed Celery Ill 

Creamed Tomato 114 

Escalloped Tomatoes 114 

French Cabbage 108 

Fricassee of Rice 109 

Fried Cucumbers ill 

Fried Onions 110 

Fried Tomatoes 113 

Mushrooms on Toast 108 

■ Onion Tart 110 

Oyster Plant Patties 108 

Papas Rellenas (Spanish) Ill 

Pilaf 114 

Potatoes au Gratin 103 

Creamed, au Gratin 106 

Croquettes 104 

Duchesse 104 

French Fried 105 

Moulded 100 

New a la Creme 103 

On the Half Shell 104 

Puff 103 

Scalloped 104 

Scalloped No. i 105 

Sweet Potatoes with Sugar 107 

Timbale 105 

With Eggs 105 

Rice and Chesse 109 

Spinach with Cream 107 

Stewed Tomatoes 113 

Stuffed Egg Plant '. 112 

Stuffed Tomatoes 113 

Winter Succotash 108 

BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON— 

Anc ovy Toast l-'3 

Chicken Timbales 120 

Codfish 132 

Codfish Balls 123 

Corned Beef Hash 119 

Cream Toast Ii4 

Egg Nests on Toast 128 



See inside page back cover. 



INDEX 



305 



EGGS— Page 

Baked 129 

Curried 128 

Devilled 128 

Egg Patties 137 

Fricassed 127 

Golden Rod Pie 127 

Omelette 1S5 

Omelette with Tomatoes 125 

Oyster Omelette 126 

Plain Omelette 124 

Quaking Omelette 126 

Savory Omelette 126 

Stuffed Eggs 127 

English Pasty... 118 

Escalloped Mutton 117 

Ham Patties 118 

Hash 119 

Hegeree for Breakfast 117 

Jambalage, see unclassified. 

Lancashire Pie 120 

Mackerel Balls 123 

tt.lnced Ham 119 

Moi^^k Minced Calf's Head 119 

Prune Toast 123 

Savory Pyramids 122 

Scrapple 121 

Sweetbread Timbales 121 

Tomato Toast with Fish 118 

Wheat Flakes 124 

BREAD— 

Blueberry Cake 137 

Blueberry Mufllns 137 

Boston Brown Bread 133 

Bread 132 

Breakfast Gems 141 

Brown Bread No. 1 134 

Brown Bread No. 2 134 

Brown Bread No. 3 134 

Buckwheat Cakes 143 

Chocolate Gems 141 

Cream Waffles 141 

English Muffins 140 

Graham Bread 135 

Graham Gems 139 

Graham Muffins 139 

Irish Potato Yeast 131 

Jenny Lind Bread 136 

Johnny Calie 138 

Lenten Graham Gems 13S 

Martha Washington's Corn Bread. 137 

Maryland Biscuits 136 

Mary's Bread and Rolls 131 

Mary's Pancakes 142 

Mrs. Manning's Brown Bread 135 

Muffins 139 



BUEAD—Connmied Page 

Parker House Rolls 133 

Pop Overs 141 

Profile House Griddle Cakes 142 

Ragamuffins 136 

Raised Muffins 140 

Rice Cakes 148 

Rolls 133 

Sally Lunn 136 

Spoon Corn Bread 138 

Southern Corn Bread 137 

Tea Biscuits 135 

Virginia Beaten Biscuits...! 135 

Waffles No. 1 143 

Waffles No. 2, see Unclassified. 

Whole Wheat Bread 133 

World's Fair Muffins 139 

HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY 145 

PASTRY— 

Almond Tarts 157 

Apple Custard Pie 155 

Chess Cakes 157 

Cocoanut Pie 156 

Delicious Filling for Pie 156 

English Apple Pie 155 

French Chopped Paste 151 

Lemon Pie No. 1 154 

Lemon Pie No. 2 154 

Lemon Pie No. 3 154 

Mince Meat No. 1 152 

Mince Meat No. 2 153 

Mince Meat No. 3 153 

Mince Meat No. 4 153 

Pineapple Pie 156 

Puff Paste 151 

Pumpkin Pie 155 

Raspberry Meringue see Unclass- 
ified. 

Washington Pie 156 

Whipped Cream Pie 154 

DESSERTS— 

Angels Pudding 186 

Apple Dessert 170 

Apple Float 169 

Apple Pudding 170 

Apple Scallop 169 

Apple Trifle 170 

Bachelor's Pudding 163 

Baked Apples 169 

Baked Indian Pudding 163 

Baked Pears 171 

Banana Cream 183 

Banana Puffs 174 

Batter Fruit Pudding 168 

Black Pudding 161 

Blackberry Pudding 164 



HILL'S Maple Sugar for Frostings. 

c. c.—'lO 



306 



INDEX 



DESSERTS— Coft^^■?!!^«rf Page 

Charlotte Russe 183 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 178 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 178 

Chocolate Cream 179 

Chocolate Custard 178 

Chocolate Pudding 168 

Christmas Pudding 160 

Cocoanut Charlotte 183 

Coffee Jelly 192 

Corn Starch Pudding 179 

Cream Glace 191 

Cream -Puffs 191 

Croquante of Peaches 190 

Date Pudding 168 

Dorchester Club Pudding 181 

Dutch Pie 169 

Fig Pudding No. 1 165 

Fig Pudding No. 3 165 

Floating Island 177 

Fruit Glace 185 

Fruit Jelly 180 

Fruit Salad No. 1 , 181 

Fruit Salad No. 2 181 

Graham Pudding No. 1 162 

Graham Pudding No. 2 162 

Kentucky Roll 163 

Kisses 192 

Lemon Foam 178 

Lemon Honey 177 

Lemon Pudding 180 

Lemon Snow \?j 

Lemon Sponge 177 

Little Creams of Chestnuts 190 

Lowell Pudding 160 

Omelette Souffle 187 

Orange Charlotte 181 

Orange Cream 179 

Orange Pudding No. 1 171 

Orange Pudding No. 2 173 

Parisian Chai-lulte 182 

Peach Cobbler 164 

Peach Snowballs 184 

Pineapple Pudding 188 

Plum Pudding No. 1 1.59 

Pium Pudding No. 3 159 

Plum Pudding No. 3 160 

Plum Pudding with Ice Cream 160 

Prune Float 166 

Prune Jelly 166 

Prune Pudding No. 1 167 

Prune Pudding No. 2 167 

Prunes, Stuffed 166 

Prunes, to cook 165 

Prune Whip 166 

Raisin Puffs 172 

Raspberry Cream 189 



DESSERTS— Con.«n«e(^ Page 

Raw Rice Pudding 175 

Rice Dessert 175 

Rice Pudding 176 

Roly Poly Pudding 161 

Roxbury Pudding 171 

Ruby Cream 185 

Snow Balls 173 

Snow Pudding 176 

Spanish Cream No. 1 186 

Spanish Cream No. 3 186 

Sponge Pudding No. 1 173 

Sponge Pudding No. 3 173 

Sponge Whips 180 

Strawberry Cream 188 

Strawberry Gelatine 189 

Stuffed Bananas 176 

Suet Pudding No. 1 161 

Suet Pudding No. 3 163 

Superior Short Cake 194 

Swiss Pudding 174 

Tapioca Cream 174 

Tapioca Cream No. 2 175 

Tapioca Pudding 174 

Tipsy Cake ... 193 

To Make a Trifle 193 

Vanity Pudding 186 

Virginia Caramel Custard 188 

Wahed Peaches 171 

White and Gold Custard 187 

Wine Jelly 193 

PUDDING SAUCES— 

Cream Sauce 195 

Foam Saucc! 196 

French Sauce 198 

Fruit Sauce 197 

Hard Sauce 197 

Ice Cream Sauce 195 

Laura's Pudding Sauce 197 

Lemon Sauce ' 198 

Maple Sugar Sauce '.96 

Pudding Sauce 196 

Rich Cream Sauce 195 

Sauce for a Plain Pudding 198 

Sauce for Suet Pudding 197 

ICE CREAM, ICES, ETC.— 

Baked Apple 203 

Banana ... 201 

Bisque 202 

Carame No. 1 201 

Caramel No. 2 201 

Chocolate 200 

Chocolate Mousse 203 

Coffee 203 

Fruit Ice Cream 200 

Lemon Lream 301 



HILL'S Maple Sugar for Frostings. 



INDEX 



307 



ICE CREAM. 1CF.S— Continued Page 

Lemon Ice Cream 200 

Neapolitan Ice Cream 1S9 

Peach 200 

Philadelph alee Cream 199 

Strawberry 301 

Strawberry Mousse 203 

Vanilla Ice Cream 2f)0 

ICES— 

Bonanza Punch 210 

Christmas Egg Nog "JiO 

Christmas Punch 210 

Cherry Ice 203 

Claret Ice 206 

Cranberry Sorbet 208 

Ginger Sherbet 204 

Ices. Foundation for .. 203 

Lemon Ginger Sherbet 204 

Lemon riherbet 207 

Milk Sherbe 205 

Mint Sorbet 207 

"Ne Plus Ultra" Punch 209 

Orange Sherbet 207 

Pineapple Ice No. 1 206 

Pineapple Ice No. 3 206 

Pineapple Sherbet 206 

Pomegranate Sherbet 204 

Punch No. 1 208 

Punch No.2 208 

Romaine 209 

Roman Punch . 211 

Sherbet Three of a Kind 205 

Tomato Water Ice 206 

Tutti Frutti Ice 204 

Turkisti Sherbet 207 

Water Ice 305 

A FRENCH DINNER 212 

CAKES— 

Almond Cake 223 

Apple Cake 228 

Blackberry Cake 228 

Black Chocolate Cake 220 

Bride Cake 218 

Caramel Cake 226 

Carraway Seed Cake 227 

Cheap Cake 227 

Clove Cake 228 

Cream Cake 223 

Delicate Cake No. 1 215 

Delicate Cake No. 2 215 

Delicate Cake No. 3 216 

Devil Cake 221 

Episcopal Cake 220 

French Almond Cake 223 

Fruitcake No. 1 324 



CAKES— Continued Page 

Fruit Cake No. 2 284 

Gold Cake No. 1 216 

Gold Cake No. 2 217 

Imperial Cake 224 

Jelly Roll 326 

Lady Cake 217 

Madeira Cake 820 

Maud S. Cake 280 

My Mother's Cup Cake 226 

Nut Cake No. 1 235 

Nut Cake No. 8 226 

Orange Cake No. 1 222 

Orange Cake No. 2 222 

Pork Cake 281 

Portsmouth Pound Cake 229 

Pound Cake 329 

Puff Cake 222 

Scripture Cake 219 

Silver Cake 217 

Silver Cake No. 2 217 

Snow Drops 287 

Spice Cake „ 227 

Spice Cake No. 8 238 

Sponge Cake No. 1 218 

Sponge Cake No. 2 219 

Sponge Cake No. 3 219 

Sunshine Cake No. 1 230 

Sunshine Cake No. 2 230 

Tennessee Fruit Cake 225 

Whipped Cream Cake 218 

AVbiteCake No. 1 216 

White Cake No.2 216 

White Fruit Cake 225 

ICES AND FILLINGS FOR CAKES— 

Almond Filling 233 

Almond Icing 233 

Boiled Icing 230 

Caramel Filling 231 

Caramel Frosting 831 

Caramel Icing 831 

Chocolate Filling No. 1 238 

Chocolate Filing No. 3 233 

Chocolate Frosting 238 

Fig Filling 234 

Frosting 231 

Fruit Fondant Filling 232 

Lemon Filling 234 

Maple Sugar Frosting 231 

Marshmallow Filling No. 1 233 

Marshmallow Filling No. 2 233 

Marshmallow Filling No. 3 233 

Soft Icing 230 

PLAIN CAKES, COOKIES, ETC, 

Anna's Doughnuts 241 

Chocolate Macaroons 235 



See inside page back cover. 



308 



INDEX 



PLAIN CAKES, ETC.— Continued Page 

Chocolate Wafers 240 

Cocoanut Drops. 241 

Cocoanut Macaroons 236 

Cookies ...'. 238 

Cream Cookies 238 

Doughnuts 342 

Doughnuts in Rhyme 241 

Drop Ginger Cake 239 

Fried Cakes 242 

Fruit Pin Wheels 236 

Ginger Cake 234 

Ginger Bread 234 

Ginger Snaps 239 

Ginger Wafers 239 

Hard Gingerbread 235 

Hickory Nut Macaroons 236 

Lemon Cakes 237 

Lemon Cookies 238 

Nut Cookies 240 

Oatmeal Cookies 340 

Sand Tarts 237 

Shrewesbury Cake 237 

Small Sugar Cookies 238 

Sponge Ginger Cake 235 

Sweet Cookies 238 

Tina's Ginger Cookies 339 

Walnut Wafers 240 

Yeast Doughnuts 241 

HOW TO KEEP HOUSE SUCCESS- 
FULLY WITH ONE SERVANT 245 

SANDWICHES— 

All Sorts 250 

American _ 250 

Anchovy 250 

Baked Beans 249 

Cheese 247 

Chicken Jelly 250 

Cottage Cheese 249 

Egg 249 

Lobster 249 

Mixed 248 

Oyster 248 

Peanut 248 

Roast Beef 248 

Salmon ..._ 249 

Sardine 248 

Valentine 250 

Walnut 247 

SUGGESTIONS FOR A CHRISTMAS 
DINNER 252 

PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC.— 

Apricot Catsup 258 

Bordeaux Sauce 259 

Canned Peaches 253 



PRESERVES, 'ETC.— Continued Page 

Canning 253 

Chili Sauce No. 1 260 

Chili Sauce No. 2 260 

Chow Chow 263 

Crab Apple Jelly 255 

Crystalized Orange Peel 256 

Cucumber Catsup 258 

Cucumber Pickles 262 

Currant Catsup 257 

Currant Catsup No. 2 257 

Currant Jelly 254 

Dressing for Chopped Pickles 263 

Euglish Mustard Pickle 259 

French Pickles 261 

Gooseberry Catsup 257 

Orange Marmalade No. 1 255 

Orange Marmalade No. 3 255 

Piccalilli 262 

Pickled Peaches or Pears 256 

Preserves , 2.54 

Sauce for the Goose 260 

Spiced Green Tomatoes 261 

Spiced Plums or Prunes 257 

Spiced Tomatoes 259 

Strawberry Preserves 254 

Sweet Tomato Pickles 261 

Tomato Catsup No. 1 258 

Tomato Catsup No. 3 258 

Tutti Frutti 254 

Watermelon Pickles 262 

CONFECTIONERY— 

Butter Scotch 268 

Butter Scotch. 271 

Chocolate Caramels 270 

Chocolate Fondant for Dipping 267 

Cocoanut Creams 266 

Date Creams 267 

Fig Creams '. 266 

Fondant . 235 

French Fondant 267 

Hickory Nut Candy 271 

Lemon Creams 266 

Maple Creams 268 

Molasses Nut Candy 270 

Molasses Taffy 270 

Nut Candy 269 

Nut Creams.. ». 266 

Orange Creams 266 

Peanut Candy 268 

Peanut Caramel 268 

Peppermints or Wintergreens 266 

Pinochee 269 

Popcorn Candy 271 

Pulled Sugar Candy 270 

Stuffed Dates 267 



HILL'S Maple Syrup. "Genuine." 



INDEX 



309 



CONFECTIONERY— Cowimwerf Page 

Vassar Fudgies S68 

Walnut Creams 267 

THE SICK ROOM— 

Apple Soup 274 

Baked Flour Porridge 276 

Barley Water 275 

Beef Juice 273 

Beef Tea 273 

Beef Tea 277 

Blanc Mange 277 

Champagne Whey 275 

Chicken Broth 273 

Chicken Jelly 277 

Clam Broth 274 

Cold in the Head 280 

Cough Mixture No. 1 279 

Cough Mixture No. 2 279 

Crackers and Cream 277 

Cream Soup 274 

Kgg Broth 276 

Egg Nog 276 

Food for Infants 278 

Iced Egg 277 

Junket 275 

Koumiss 275 

Mustard Plaster 279 

Mustard Poultice 279 

Mutton Broth 273 

Nutritious Coffee 274 

Panada 278 

Panada for a New Born Infant 278 

Raw Meat Diet 274 

Rice Jelly 276 

Rice Water 275 

Rum Punch 274 

Rye Coffee 276 

Soda Mint 279 

Tapioca 276 

Toast Water 275 

Wine Whey 275 

BEVERAGES— 

Blackberry Cordial 283 

Blackberry Wine 2a3 

Chocolate 281 



BEVERAGES— Cow^wweci Page 

Cocoa 288 

Coffee 281 

Coffee Blend 281 

Raspberry Shrub 282 

Raspberry Vinegar... 282 

Scotch Ginger Beer 283 

MISCELLANEOUS— 

Baking Powder 287 

Caramel 286 

Celery Vinegar 287 

Chilblains 288 

Cleansing Fluid 287 

Cold Cream 289 

Coloring for Finger Nails 288 

Corned Beef 286 

Furniture Polish 288 

Hair Wash 289 

How to Wash Blankets 287 

Kitchen and Laundry Soap 285 

Library Paste 288 

Lotion for Skin 289 

Meat Pickle 285 

Meats and their Accompaniments. 291 

Roux 286 

Spinach Green 286 

Soft Soap 285 

To Remove Stains 288 

To Wash Flannels 287 

MENUS 294 

UNCLASSIFIED 296 

Chestnut and English Salad 298 

Crab Bisque 297 

Creamed Chicken 299 

French Oyster Soup 297 

Jambalaya 297 

Louisiana Okra Gumbo.. 296 

New England Sausage 298 

Nut Jelly Salad 297 

Potted Herrings 300 

Potted Salmon 300 

Raspberry Merringue 299 

Waffles 296 

Walnut Salad 298 

Yellow Soup 299 



See inside page back cover. 



310 



^be Hmcrican 
Ikitcbcn /nbagasine 

A Domestic 
Science . . . 
Monthly . . . 

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE ONE DOLLAR A YEAR 



MRS. MARY J. LINCOLN, EDITOR. 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE HOME SCIENCE PUBLISHING COMPANY 

485 Tremont St., Boston, Mass. 



Mrs. Lincoln's 

Boston Cook Book 



What to Do and What 
Not to do in Cooking 

BY 

Mrs. D. A. Lincoln 

Of the Boston Cooking School 



BOSTON 

ROBERTS BROTHERS 



311 



MRS. WHITEMAN 

RIALTO BUILDING, 
Adjoining Public Library. 

Embroideries ; Stamping Silks. 
Lessons given. 

LEE & BOWDEN 

REAL ESTATE LOANS 
AND FIRE INSURANCE 

Rooms 1, 3, 3 Dexter Horton Bank 

Building, 

Seattle, - - Washington. 

J. & W. HOPKINS 

FLORISTS. 

Dealers in Fruit Trees, Plants and 
Seeds; designs a specialty; ten 
greenhouses. Telephone red 1015. 

618 Second Avenue, 
Seattle, - - - Washington. 

MRS. J. W. GLASSCOCK 

FASHIONABLE DRESSMAKING. 

Cutting and littlng. Guarantees 
satisfaction. The patronage of the 
lady readers of this book especially 
solicited. 307 Seneca Street. 

MISS C. MACLEAN 

FASHIONABLE DRESSMAKING. 

Rooms 15 and 16 Holyoke Building, 

Cor. First Ave. and Spring St., 

Seattle, Washington. 

GEORGE N. MOORE 

PHOTOGRAPHER, 

Boston Block, Second Avenue and 
Columbia Street, 

Seattle, Washington. 
Established 1870. 



JAMES EGGAN 

« — PHOTOGRAPHER — » 

307 Pike Street, Seattle, Washington. 

Ground Floor Studio. 
High Grade Work. 

MRS. C. P. WILSON 

MRS. R. B. SEXTON 

DRESSMAKING. 

Rooms 9 and 10 Starr-Boyd Block, 

Seattle, Washington. 

MISS N. M. GHEASTY 

Importer of 
FINE MILLINERY. 

Colonial Block, Second Avenue and 
Columbia Street, 

Seattle, Washington. 

IXL DAIRY 

CHOICE BUTTER, 

CREAM AND MILK. 

Pure Ice Cream. 

Delivered free to any part o fthe city. 

1405 Second Avenue, Seattle. 

Telephone Pike 48. 

V. R. PEIRSON 

CONTRACTOR 



-AND- 



BUILDER. 



Send a postal to 221 Cherry St., 
and I will call on you. 

EUGENE RICKSECKER 

CIVIL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL 
ENGINEER. 

Surveys, Plans, Inspection, Exam- 
ations and Reports. 

533 Burke Building, Seattle, Wash. 
P. O. Box 289. 



Patronize Our Advertisers. 



3]2 



DON'T FORGET 

That it requii'es 
no preparation or 
coaxing- to make 




.... WORK 

They are always 
I'eady and witli 
them 

II 18 mm mm\m 



e^HbddsJS^ todopoorbakin-;-. 



You will not be able to find theii' equal. 

SOL E AGENTS . WOODHOUSE & LONGUET 
210 Pike Street 

Tel Pile 44. TIM WORK AND. PLUMBING 



I. F. BICKFORD 

2550 and 2552 East Madison Street 

GROCERIES, FLOUR AND FEED 
SEATTLE, WASH. 



Dealer in 



R. B. LEITHEAD 

APOTHECARY 

^ Pure Drugs, Flavoring Extracts 



Spices, Etc., Etc. 

Corner First Ave. and Harion St. 



Seattle, Wash. 




LEHMANN BROS. 



PROPR'S 



MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS 
IN ALL KINDS OF 



FLOUR, FEED, GRAIN 

CHOICE WHOLE WHEAT FLOUR 

CHOICE GRAHAM CHOICE BUCKWHEAT 

CHOICE RYE FLOUR CHOICE CORN MEAL 

. . Sold hv T-eadin^ OrocervS . 



313 



PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS. 




eum^ 



?/8 Burke Bld6. Cor. S^ And MARION Srs. 



TICIAN 



A U. S. GOLD BOND 

....IS NO BETTER THAN.... 

CROA^N FLOUR 



Schwabacher Bros. & Co. '"c 



SOLE AGENTS 



FINE DAINTY 

MILLINERY GLOVES 

. . . IMPORTED ... . .IMPORTED DIRECT... 

PATTERN TREFOUSSE 

BONNETS GLOVES 

The MacDougall & Southwick Co. 

717-719-721 First Av., Seattle, Wash. 



314 



SAINT HARK'S EXCHANGE 

714 Second Avenue 

OPEN EVERY SATURDAY 



Home Cooking, Fancy Work 



Orders taken for Cakes, Ices, Ice Creams, 
Rolls, etc., and for all kinds of Fancy Work. 
"CLEVER COOKING" for Sale, Price 50c. 



SAINT MARK'S GUILD 



OFFICERS 



Mrs. WINPIELD R. smith, President. 

Mrs. homer F. NORTON, Vice-Pi-esident. 

Mrs. EUGENE RICKSECKER, Secretary. 

Mrs. MARY C. CALHOUN, Treasurer. 

Meets the first Friday in each month, 
in the Guild Room, at 2 P. M. 

Send all orders to the Secretary, 8^2 
Albert Street- 

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS. 



315 



Domestic and 

-^^^Imported Delicacies 

Also Every Article Grocers Are Expected 
to Keep, Can Be Bought of 

LOUCH, AUGUSTINE & CO. 

815 and 817 Front St., Seattle 

W. p. BOYD & CO. 

621--FIRST AVENUE--62^ 

The Best Appointed Dry Goods Store in Seattle. Every Newness of 

the Season, and No End of Charming; Novelties from 

the Fashion Centres of the World. 

QUALITY IS OUR STANDARD BEARER 

A. A. Denny, President W. M. Ladd, Vice-President 

N. H. Latimer, Manager F. R. Van Tuyl, Cashier 

FOUNDED 1870— incorporated 1878 

DEXTER NORTON & COMPANY 

. . . BANKERS . . . 

The Oldest Banking Institution in the State 

Capital Stock $200,000 • Surplus ^200,000 

seattle, washington 

LEE'S pharmacy" 

The Reliable Druggist 

SECOND AVE. AND COLUMBIA ST. TEL. MAIN 193 

TRY US ON FLAVORING EXTRACTS 



316 



SEHTTLE mwm COMPftNy 

819, 821 and 823 Front St. 

SEATTLE, WASH. 

TTVERYTHING in this Cook Book will be a Great 
^ Success if Cooked in Utensils and Eaten with 
Knives, Forks and Spoons purchased of the above 
Reliable Firm. 

IT'S THE BE5T 



Duwamish Dairy Ice Cream 



MADE FROn PURE CREAH ONLY 



TELEPHONE - - - MAIN 157 



A.T. LUNDBERG 

Book: and Ne\?s?'sdealer 

203 Pike St., Cor. Second Ave. 



STATIONERY of all grades, New Books as published, Juven- 
ile Books, Blank Books, Legal Blanks, Memorandums, 
Inks, Drawing and Detail Paper, Tracing Paper, Tracing 
Cloth, Carbon Paper, French Tissue and Crepe Paper, Blotting 
Sheets and Board, Gold and Silver Paper, Purses, Shipping 
Books, Receipts, Notes. Checks, Statements, Magazines, East- 
ern Daily and Sunday Papers. 



317 



PATRONIZP OUR ADVERTISERS. 

ICE CREAH^-^^^ 

Milk, Cream, Whipped Cream, the 
Best Creamery Butter, our own make 

CAN BE HAD OF 

THE KLGIN DAIRY CO. 

Rear Abbott Hotel, Pike St. Phone Pike 99 
Neapolitan Ice Cream our Specialty. Prices Low Considering Quality 



USE only the Choicest and Best Quality of Roasts, Steaks, 
Corn Beef, Lard, Hams, Bacon and Sausag'es for your 
table, which can always be procured at the CASH MAR- 
KET, No. 321 Pike street. Home Made Hams and Bacon and 
Kettle Rendered Lard a specialty. Free delivery to any part 
of the city. Telephone Pike 97. 

CASH MARKET 

O. H. SMITH, Proprietor 



SNOW : DRIFT : FLOUR 

Makes the flost Bread 
.^^The Whitest Bread 

The Best Bread in the World 

TRY A SACK OF SNOW DRIFT-GUARANTEED 

All First-Class Grocers Have It 

SEATTLE PRODUCE CO. 



PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS. 



318 



ANDREW F. BURLEIGH, Receiver. 

Noftliefii Pacific R, II 



RUNS 

Pullman Sleeping Cars 

Elegant Dining Cars 

Tourist Sleeping Cars 

TO 

ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS, DULUTH, FARGO, GRAND 

FORKS, CROOKSTON, WINNIPEG, HELENA 

AND BUTTE 

THROUGH TICKETS TO 

CHICAGO, WASHINGTON, PHILADELPHIA, NEW 
YORK, BOSTON, and all Points EAST and SOUTH 



The Only Line Running Two Overland Trains 
Dailv From Seattle 



Railroad and Steamship Tickets to All Points 
in the World 

Through tickets to Japan and China via Northern 
Pacific Steamship Co. — An American Line. 

For rates, routes, and other information, call on 
or address 

I. A. NADEAU 

General Agent, Seattle, Washington 
City Ticket Office, corner First Avenue and 
Yesler Way. 

Depot Ticket Office, corner Western Avenue 
and Columbia Street. 

A. D. CHARLTON, Asst. Gen. Pass. Agent 
255 Morrison Street, - - Portland, Oregon 



\i 




%^^^^ 



" VO _4 V ♦ 



^^■&' 











c" ♦ 









%^^^ 



^-^<i^'^ 






















^^-n^.. V 






<* ^ % ' 







X" As^%"-- y^-^;;X .^^^>fc^ / 









.- ^^-^K V 











■^^^ 




'^<=>' 



. * * A 







v*^^ 



'^«b- 




'o /\.Js^';V ./y;.^.>_, _,/..^;:X '°' * 




♦* <L^ o^ *v^ 







%.«' 
















^"•^^.^ ; 



















5^^ % -y^^^.* >^ -^^ 









^•- '^bv^ :« 






"^..^^ .^^fflli^V -'^oc,^' 







• .♦' 




.' >"'^^.. V 







I • 1 * ** 



*^ **^ 













. "O. 



A^' .... '^'^^ 



^•^^/ ■■' 






iOv\ 






