
w^^m 



€W 



l(D 




y\)X A)30UT )T 



Handle with 

EXTREME CARE 

This volume is damaged or brittle 
and CANNOT be repaired! 



• photocopy only if necessary 

• return to staff 

• do nof put in bookdroo 



Gerstein Science Information Centre 



$^y^ 



^^x\ 



\\^^\l 




^jUc^^ 



e 






^ 





COCOA 



ALL ABOUT LI" 



PORTION OF AN ODE TO THE CHOCOLATE TREE. 
Dedicated to Cardinal Francis Maria, 

BY 

Alonsius Ferronius, a Jesuit — 1664 



O nata terris Arbor in ultimis, 
Et Mexicani gloria littoris, 

Fcccunda succo, quo superbit 
Aethereum Chocolata nectar. 

Tibi omne lignum cedat, et omnium, 
Propago floruni ; Laurus adoreas 

Nectens triumphis, Quercus, Alnus, 
Et Libani pretiosa Cedrus. 



TRANSL.\TED. 

O tree, upraised in far off Mexicos, 

The glor>- of their golden strands ; 
As heavenly nectar from a chalice flows 

Its Chocolate for other lands. 

To thee, the palm of ever}- tree is given, 

And ever>' flower yields thee homage sweet ; 

The Laurel crowns thy head ; the Oak, the Alder tree 
And precious Cedar triumph at thy feet. 






iIfIHI' 









V'¥\\'' 



mm\ 



m\ Hi! 



i 



'\\ 



' 



- .AV 



(.m 



/ i 



ml 






m 


m\ 




111 

fl 
li 


m \ 1 




lill 


111 




N' /;^^'V^" 



> > ; ."^ 






S3 






Q.ocoa : 

PU jH6out II 



By - I/ISTORICUS: 



Xc>^^o^ : 

SAMPSON LOW, MARSrON and CONirANV, MMiriHI 
sr. DU.S'ST.iXS HOUSE. 

Kbtter Lane, Fi.kkt Street, E.G. 
1896. 



4,6 







INTRODUCTION. 

Three years ago the writer ventured to place before the public some 
details respecting; the cultivation and use of Cocoa, and he hxs 
since been enabled to collect much new, and as he believes, valuable 
information. Few early books treat accurately or exhaustively of 
the subject, but nearly all the earlier travellers and settlers refer to 
Cocoa as an important article of consumption in South America and 
Mexico, long before it was known in Europe. A number of extracts 
have been made from publications and manuscripts in the British 
Museum and elsewhere, and exact copies of some very rare plates have 
been produced by the photo-zinco process, which it is hoped will prove 
of general interest. 

We owe much to adventurous navigators and explorers for luxuries 
that have now become a necessity of civilisation, and to capitalists who 
have made use of their wealth to develop and improve the cultivation 
of now familiar products. 

Vast tracts of rich alluvial soil still remain uncultivated, and are 
likely, if properly utilized for generations to come, to be at once means 
of employment and sources of supply ; and it is generally admitted 
that Cocoa claims probably more attention than any other food product 
throughout the tropical zone in which it flourishes. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

I'Af.K 

History and Cultivation ok thk Cocoa Tlant i 



CHAPTHK II. 
History ok the Use ok Cocoa - . 28 

CHAI'TKR HI. 
Manufacture- ....... ^2 

CHAPTHR IV. 
Value ok Cocoa as Food, and its Adult i <>9 

Vanilla Arom.\tica - 85 

APPENDIX :— Preparing the Ground for Planting V'aniila— Shade- 
Planting — Training, or Artificial Support — Watering — Manuring 
and Surface Dressing — Fertilization — Duration of the Perio<l 
of Ripening Har\'esting the Pods — Drvin;: .md Preparing; the 
Pods— Prc|>aring the Pods for Market 



( ) 



I.I.rSTRA'nONS. 



FULL \'.\Gi: ILLLSTkATlONS:- 

FronlispiiTc : C'.iskcl of ("htxrolatc l>eing hnndcd to Ncptunr. 
Natives carrying C"ocoa, Fniit, &c.. Jis 'I"ril>ute 
Cocoa Howcrs and Pods, anci Pods on Kr.tnci) (coloured) 
Fniit of the Cacao 'I"hcol)ron»a 
Gang mustering or Work. Trinidad 
Row of Drying Hoiisos. Tiinidad . 
ScfKimiing Cocoa Heans from I'ods, Trinidad 
Dancmg Cocoa. Trinidad 
Drying Cocoa. Trinidad . 

Copy of old riatffrom Dufour's"Trc;itiic>onCofTtx'. Tea and ChocoUlc 
Copy of an F.nijraving of Native, from a rare work by Dufour 
Nati%-e> : md Ccmking Cocoa. Ogelliy's '■America" 

Indians ^ a Colunin. IX- Hry .... 

Portrait "t M.'tiii /uiua in his youth. attirt*<i in War Dress 
Ancu-ni l-lnf;r.uinjjs of Montezuma and l^Uiiuhtimoc 
Mexican lioskets and Measures. Plate L (coloured) 
Plate IL (colourrd) 
Wontcn grinding Chncolatc. from ."vjuiers" " Nicaragxia " 
OiK'-ton St»-am Kiwsti-r at Cadbury's Works . 
Grinding Mills, at Cadbury's Works 
Melangeur. at Cadbury's Works . . 
Induns eating Fktiled Grains of Nfaizc ... 
Vanilla Aromaiiot, showing Flowers, Fruit, and Seeds 



rAiiNb rAoK 



«4 



34 
37 
38 
40 
4a 
44 
56 
61 
6a 
64 
70 
85 



MISCELLANKOUS - 
Thatched Store House for Cocoa 

Open Cocoa Po<l, I^eaves.^and Flowers . . . 

Curing Mouv, (jrenada ......... 

Copy of old Lngnjving showing how the Cocoa Tree is shaded by others 
Implements for sevrrii»g Fruit from Tree, and opening Pod 
Presents of Cocoa, brought to lienzoniiu ... 

Copy of Engraving, Coctxt Dnnking, from Dufour's book 
Xicara. Mexican Dnnkini; Vessel ..... 

M. ., old Work 

Ai s . . 

(in: V |ll<gtlV. I ' 

Mu r . . ' 

Ml ■ ..!• ! u''i «iui .\rrowTOO( 



I 



16 



41 



COCOA : 



t 



\LL AiK)i; T n 



CHAl'TFR I. 

:o: 

HISTORY AND lUiriVA HON OI- THK TI-ANT 




{ 



\» 



i V dv- . ■»> -^:^'^.. 



I 



r was one of the 
dreams of our 
childhood to sail 
on the bosom of that 
mighty river whose 
watershed drains the 
greater part of the 
northern portion of the 
continent of South 
America, and to ex- 
plore the secrets of its 
thousand tributaries 
that penetrate forests 
untro<lden by the foot of man : forests teeming 
with innumer.ible brilliantly-coloured birds and 
insects, luxuriating in their own Paradise of tropical plants 
and flowers. Far into the dark recesses of these forests the 



- Cocoa and Oihrr 

rj »iih T><.. I 

i raacbc* of falm-likc Trrr 

( ro«i Dk Buy* " Hi*roii\ 
Ambsica." iAoo A.D. 



-iJi' 



2 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

tributary streams of the Amazon flow, shadowed by trees 
throwing to the water's edge and festooned by gigantic creepers 
which hang in rich foliage and flower over them. 

We foHow these streams towards their sources among the 
snow fields and rocky defiles of the Andes, amidst the ruins of an 
ancient world and people, almost extinct as nations, but whose 
history brings thrilling memories of by-gone days of civilization 
and government. The country through which we pass was the 
original home of the Cocoa plant, and it is found at the present 
day growing there in all its pristine luxuriance. 

Its ancient history is embalmed in travellers' stories, com- 
bining the real and the legendary, that is to say, the instructive 
and entertaining. 

Mendoza^ in his " Collection and Interpretation of Hierogly- 
phics," is thus quoted in " Aglio's Antiquities of Mexico :" " The 
last king of the Tultecas, Ouetzalcohuatl, saw great prosperity 
among his people. This king having drunk a beverage given to 
him by a magician, Titlacahua, on the pretence that the king would 
thereby be transported to a distant city, which he desired to see, 
lost his self-possession, and began to weep bitterly, and was moved 
to leave his country, 

" With the resolution which he had now formed, in conse- 
quence of the art and incantations of the magicians, he caused 
whatsov^er he possessed, made of silver and of shells, to be burned, 
and buried, with other precious things, beneath mountains and 
beds of rivers ; and as he was a magician, he changed the Cocoa 
trees into others of a different kind called Mizquitl, and he 



IlISTClkY AND CL'LTIVATIoN • '! Till il.ANT. 3 

commaiult'd every species of bird wliich sol.iced and charmed 
that rej^ion to lly away to the country of Anahuac. wliich is more 
than a hinulriHl Iea<^iies ch'stant from Tula." 

I'urchas gives us the history of the Mexican nation in his 
"Travels in America," and informs us that the Mexicans first 
arrived at the site of the City of Mexico, a.d. 1324. "And 
because they liked well the greatness and situation of tht; place, 
after that iliey had travailed in their j(jurneys and wandered many 
years from country to country, * * * being come from far 
countries in f(jllowing their journies * ♦ * they came and settled 
down in the place of Mexico. " It is interesting to note that 
probably America was thus early colonised from Kuropc — as 
Montezuma confessed to Cortes that he and his nobles' ancestors 
had come from the same part of the globe as the Spaniards, a part 
situated towards tlu: rising sun. The civil polity also agrees in 
many respects with that of the Jewish nation, so that this and 
other facts point U) them as the parent race of the rulers of Mexico. 

He also tells us of the particular tributes which every town 
subdued paid to the.se I.ords of^Mexico, mainly consisting of 
baskets of Co coa, which will be treated of in the chajiter "History 
• >f the Use of Cocoa." 

A .MS. in the Manuscript Room of the British Museum, written 
in Old Knglish characters, and entitled "A X'oyage to the West 
Indies and New Spain (Yucatan), made by John Chilton in the year 
1560," says: "So wj- were provided of victualls till we came 
where Townes were in the province of Soconu.sco, where groweth 
Cacau, w!!* the Christianes carrye from thence unto Nova Hispaniola 
becaus y' will not growc in a cold countrye. • ♦ ♦ Tlv ir 



4 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

chiefest marchandize is Cacau." Further on, describing the 
principal town of the province of Guasaqualco (Merida), he adds, 
" Where there is a byshopp and ahnoste a hundred Spaniardes. 
The Indians of this province paye their tribute in mantellas of cotton 
woll and Cacau^ There is no porte in this province for a ship of a 
hundred tun to ryde in, save only in the river of Tabasco, by w^ 
this citye of Merida standeth." 

Bancroft, in his " Native Races of the Pacific States," speaks 
of some curious customs among the Maya races : " Before planting 
the seed they hold a festival in honor of their Gods, Ekchuah, 
Chac. and Hobnil, who were their patron deities. To solemnize it 
they all went to the plantation of one of their number, where they 
sacrificed a dog having a spot on its skin of the color of cacao. 
They burned incense to their idols, after which they gave to each of 
the officials a branch of the cacao pJ antT* Palacioalso tells us that 
" Pipiles before begining to plant gathered all seeds in small bowls, 
which after performing certain rites with them before the idol, 
among which was blood drawn freely from different parts of the 
body, with which to anoint the idol;" and as Ximinez states, "the 
blood of slain fowls was sprinkled over the land to be sown." 

The growth of Cocoa is now distributed over a great portion 
of the tropical world, and it will thrive within 23 parallels of latitude, 
but luxuriates within 15, and is cultivated at an altitude of 1,700 
feet above the level of the sea, but not successfully over 1,000 feet. 

The finest qualities are grown in Central America, Trinidad, 
and Ceylon ; in the latter the plant is of comparatively recent 
cultivation, but it is the most delicate in colour, flavour, and aroma. 




3 * 



5i 



< < 



- a 



IIISTOKV AM> CULTIVATION OK TIIK JI.AM. 5 

ami c()nsc(|uciilly coinin.mcls ihr. liij^lu-sl prices 011 ihc marktri.* 
One of ihr hiH-st growths, however, is that of Soconosco, on the 
coiust of Cfualemala. which w.is. at one lime, monoj)olised for the 
use of the Spanish Court, and still realises very high prices. 

Cocoa is also grown in Mauritius, Madagiuscar, Isle de 
HourlM)n, Australia. lli«r Philippine Islands, the Islantl of 
St. Thome, off the west co;ust of Afric.i. and some portions of 
the continent of Africa. 

Hy far the most im|)ortant sources of supply, however, are the 
districts of Central America, the northern portion of the South 
American Continent the Aniillrs md in recent years, the island 
of St. Thome. 

Florida, in that p.irt which borders the Gulf of Mexico and 
the southern j)art of Louisiana, marks the most northerly limit in 
which Cocoa naturally grows. 

.\ ir.iveller in Louisiana, in 1796, speaks of the Cocoa tree 
among others, "covering with delightful shade the shores of the 
Mississippi," and on "the banks of the Alatamaha, in I'lorida ; " 
but it is only toward the latitude of 22 ' that the climate is f.ivour- 
able to its cultivation, both north and south of the Equator. 



♦ KcrRuson, in "Ceylon in 1884," remarks :—" Cocoa can never be cultivated in 
Ceylon to the same extent as Coffee, Tc.i, or Cinchona, for it requires a jjootl d< ; ' \ 
^o<kI soil and shelter from the wind, and these arc only to l>e found in \crv Imiiicii 
I " •>• R. H. Tytler Ijclonjis til' njj this cr 

•• «».i vpo«^i!v rr.il!/r<| t the In- | 



planted, and it is expected that ten years hence an area e\' . x» acres under this 

plant will enable Crvlun ti. <.rn.! 1 ?ivooo to 150,000 hm - "( n- products to 

European markets. 



6 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

Cortes found C ocoa to be one of the principal s ources of 
jweaklL.^ and the Spaniards for a long time preserved the 
plantations, until the rich silver mines proved more attractive, if 
not more remunerative. 

Guatemala is a country of extreme fertility, and produces an 
abundance of the finest Cocoa ; indeed, the Cocoa of Soconosco 
has ever held the palm as the royal brand ; here, again, the 
Spaniards gathered more solid riches from its growth than from 
any other source, although they despised the land as containing no 
mines of gold or silver. Vast plantations were found on the 
plains about the volcano of Guatemala, which, more than once, 
covered them with its ashes. 

Honduras and Nicaragua both produce large harvests, but 
their early history is little known, owing to the action of those 
greedy conquerors whose war of extermination almost destroyed 
the people and burnt their hieroglyphics, in which lay the history 
of these peoples. Columbia, from the earliest times, produced 
large quantities of Cocoa, but as the iiihabitants were fess cryTtrsed 
than the Mexicans, it only served to feed the parrots and monkeys 
which swarrned in th e forests ; it is now, however, a great source 
of wealth and prosperity. 

The valleys of Guayaquil and Quito produce the largest 
quantities of any districts in the world. Guayaquil Cocoa has a 
speciality of its own, both in shape and aroma, and is easily 
distinguished from the Cocoa of other districts. The lower 
qualities are very strong and coarse in flavour, but the finer beans 
contain a large percentage of Theobroma, and are much valued on 
that account. 



HISTORY ASM) ( LF.TIVATION OF Till: IM.ANT. 7 

Tiirninjjj lo ilu- ICisumii hm»i, \'cnczucl;i pnnluccs the Caracas 
Cocoa, which is well known lo connoisseurs ;is one of the most 
delicate and delicious in existence. 

This country is traversed by a chain of mountains intersected 
by little valleys, where the Cocoa tree finds shelter, heat and 
irrigation, anil also equality of tenij^erature, all of which are 
essential to its perfect cultivation. This fertile land was discovered 
by Columbus, and <jccu[)ied by Ojeda and other adventurers, who 
only travelled over it in order to seize the gold with which the 
poor Indians adorned themselves, antl for re-peopling the islands 
for purposes of war. and for working in the mines. In 16^4 the 
Dutch took possession of the island of Cura<;oa, which they made an 
entrepot for American produce, and it was they who siimul.ited the 
Spaniards to the serious cultivation of Cocoa, which has since 
acc]uired so high a reputation in the markets of the world. 

rhe credit is. however, due more to the Jesuit missionaries 
than lo the sovereigns who owned the land, for it was they 
who engaged the natives to form small plantations on the borders 
of the Orinoco, and lo gather the wild Cocoa of which Father 
Gumilla. in his " History of Orinoco," says : " I have seen in these 
plains forests of wild Cocoa trees laden with bunches of j)ods, 
sup|)lying food to an infmite multitude of monkeys, squirrels, 
parrots, guacamayas, and other animals." 

In I'rcnch Guiana, Cocoa was scarcely cultivated until about 
1734, when a forest of Cocoa was discovered on a br.uich of the 
Yari, which Hows into the Amazon. I'Vom this f«»rist seeds wen* 
gathered, and planuitions l.iid out in Cayenne. 

The Cocoa of Para and Maranham differs from .ill tnher 
growths ; the bean is much smaller and more round and elongateti. 



8 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

but when well cured, is mild, has a very pleasant llavour, and 
is much valued by manufacturers on that account. 

Bahia produces large quantities of Cocoa which, formerly, 
was of a very inferior quality, principally owing to careless 
cultivation and indiscriminately mixing all that was brought from 
the interior, some of which was wild and uncured. Recent years 
have entirely altered this state of things, and the good quality of 
" fermented " Bahian Cocoa is fully recognised. 

A little Cocoa is grown in the low-lying parts of Rio Janeiro, 
but it is not to be met with beyond this latitude. 

At the present day, the smaller islands of the Antilles divide 
the glory of supply with the American Continent. The Great 
Antilles, including Cuba, San Domingo, and Jamaica, although of 
such large area, and in a favourable latitude, only produce inferior 
Cocoa ; while Guadaloupe, Dominica, Martinique, Grenada, and 
Trinidad not only produce large quantities, but some of the finest 
qualities grown. Dominica was the first of the Antilles on which 
the Spaniards cultivated Cocoa, the first Cocoa tree being planted 
by M. Dogeron in 1665. 

In Martinique the Cocoa tree is said to be indigenous. All 
the Cocoa trees were destroyed in 1727 by a terrific hurricane and 
inundation. A few years afterwards, a royal edict reduced the duty 
on imports from French Colonies, which encouraged the cultiva- 
tion so that in 1775 about one-and-a-half million trees were bearing 
fruit. St. Lucia formerly belonged to France, and, as early as 
1784, there were over two millions of Cocoa trees under cultivation. 
It is now a prosperous English Colony. Grenada also belonged 
to the French, who planted the first Cocoa tree about the year 



X .. . 



■_> : •» 



t 



4 ^ '., 




Cocoa Flowers and Pods. 



Pods on B&anch. 



HISTORY AND CULTIVATION OF TIIK PLANT. 9 

I 714 from sccils sui)i)li(il by ihc merchants of Marti 11 iciiic*. who 
also sent over slaves to cultivate the plantation. It is now one of 
the most prosperous of the Little Antilles, and, Jis an ICnj^lish 
possession, proviiles us with larije supplies of Cocoa. 

Trinitlail is, however, by far the most important of our I'^ni^lish 
jX)ssessions in the Little Antilles. The Spaniards established 
themselves there in 1525, and applied much can- to the cultivation 
of Cocoa, which attained so hij^h a value that it was preferred 
to the finest jjrowths of Caracas. These plantations were t<Jtally 
destroyed by a hurricane in 1727, and the island was almost 
abandoned. About 60 years later, a Catalan sailor was so much 
struck with the fertility of the soil that he took possession of the 
beautiful valley of VaL,aiaraparo, and was successful in attain 
establishing^ Cocoa plantations on the island. Soon after that time 
Trinidad was definitely cetled to Knjrland, and it has not only 
rej^ained its former reputation for some of the finest brands of 
Cocoa in the world, but has for many years been one of the chief 
sources of supi)ly to Britain. IVinidad, at the present time, 
produces over 22 million lbs. per annum. 

An interesting account of the ri.se and growth of the West 
India Islands, written by Dalby Thomas in 1690, appeared in 
the " Ilarleian Miscellany," and we extract the following amusing 
account of this early attempt and f.iilure by the I^nglish to cultivate 
Ct)coa:- "Cocoa is now a com modit y to be regard e d in our 
colonies, though at first it was the principal invitiUiuiI-LO-the. 
peopling of Jamaica, for those walks the Spaniards left behind 
them there, when we concjutrred it, i)roiluceil such prodigi(nis j>rofit 
with solitf'" "'Mbh' that .Sir T'^-'^ M.wi;r..rd and several oili.i-x >,! t 



lO COCOA : ALL AIJOUT IT. 

lip their rests to grow wealthy therein, and fell to planting much of 
it. which the Spanish slaves had always foretold would never 
thrive, and so it happened; for though it promised fair, and throve 
finely for five or six years, yet still, at that age when so long hopes 
and cares had been wasted upon it, withered and died away by 
some unaccountable cause, though they imputed it to a black 
worm, or grub, which they found clinging to its roots." The 
account continues : — "And did it not almost constantly die before, 
would come into perfection in 15 years' growth, and last till 30, 
thereby becoming the most profitable tree in the world, there 
having been ^200 sterling made in one year of an acre of it. But 
the old trees, being gone by age, and few new thriving, as the 
Spanish negroes foretold, little or none now is produced worthy 
the care and pains in planting and expecting it. Those slaves 
gave a superstitious reason for its not thriving, many religious 
rites being performed at its planting by the Spaniards which their 
slaves were not permitted to see. But it is probable that where 
a nation, as they, removed the art of making cochineal and curing 
vanilloes into their island provinces, which were the commodities 
of those islands in the Indians' time, and forbade the opening of 
any mines in them for fear some maritime nation might be invited 
to the conquering of them, so they might likewise in their 
transplanting Cocoa from the Caracas and Guatemala, conceal 
wilfully some secret in its planting from their slaves, lest it might 
teach them to set up for themselves, by being able to produce a 
commodity of such excellent use for the support of man's life, 
with which alone and water some persons have been necessitated 
to live ten weeks together without finding the least diminution 
of health or strength." 



inSTORV ANIt CULTIVATION OK Till: PLANT. II 

I'Voin llu- Colonial Scries of State Papt-Ts, I^'cl^ruary, i66S, 
\vc liMriL lliat. "Cocoa was tli(! chief protliice of the Island ol 
j.iniaica ; neither sugars nor indigo will turn to account nearly sn 
well; hut in 1671 there was a terrible heat and tlrought which 
blasted all the Cocoa trees, as well as in San Domingo and Cuba 
so that the Governor, Sir Thomas Lynch, had great difficulty in 
sending to ICngland some Cocoa and Vanillas fcjr the King." 

Joseph Acosta (1604). in his " Historic of the I*!ast and 
West Indies," says: " Tlie Cocoa is a fruiter little less than 
almonds, yet more fatle. the which being roasted hath ncj ill 
taste. It is so much esteemed among the Indians (yea, among 
the Spaniards), that it is oiu; of the richest and the greatest 
iraffickes of Xew Sjiain. " 

Cocoa Plantations in Mexico must have been of large extent 
in early times, if we can rely on what Ogelby tells us in his folio 
volume on America, 1671 : " Xot f.ir from St. lago is a place 
called Vzaleos. where there are orchards of cocoa, two leagues 
scjuare, each of them producing yearly as much as 50,000 men can 
carry." And in speaking of New Spain, he says: "The Knglish 
Commander, Thomas Candish, coming into the haven Guatalco, 
burnt 200,000 tun of Cacao ; it proved no small loss to Xew Spain ; 
ihe provinces of Guatemala antl Nicaragua not jiroducing so much 
in a whole year." 

This inestimable plant, nameil by Linnaus, Theobroma (from 
6eoy ami eifiu'fia, the food of gods), is an exergreen which grows 
to the height of from 15 to 30 feet, with drooping bright green 
leaves, in shape oblong, eight to twenty-five inches long, and pointed 
at the ends. The (lowers and fruit, which it bears at all seasons of 



12 



COCOA : ALL AIJOUT IT. 



the year; grow off the trunk and thickest parts of the boughs, 
with stalks only an inch long. Humboldt saw the flower bursting 
through the earth out of the root, and wondered at the prodigious 
vital force of the plant. The flowers, which grow in tufts or 
clusters, are very small, having five yellow petals on a rose- 
coloured calyx. The fruit is five celled, without valves, from seven 
to nine-and-a-half inches in length, and three to four inches in 
breadth, of an elliptic, oval-pointed shape, something like the 
vegetable marrow, only more elongated and pointed at the end, 
tough and quite smooth, the colour varying, according to the season, 
from bright yellow to red and purple. The rind of the fruit is very 




Pod, Leaves , 



-I'ud cut open shewing Seeds. 



thick and similar to a very hard, tough apple in substance, and has 
a slightly sweet taste ; if allowed to ripen this changes into a shell 
of a weak nature. The seeds contained in each pod vary in 




Frl'it of the "Cacao Thkobroma. 

I. Pod, fully develop«<l. 
3. Pod, first development. 
J. Flowtr». 



HISTORY AND CULTIVATION OF THE I'LANT. 1 3 

numl>cr from iwcniy lo forty, ami arc cmbccldcci in a soft jiinky- 
whilc aciil pulp. I'hc cocoa tree, while ^rowin^ in that porti<jn of 
the earth wherein the Ik.mI is gre.itesl, yet re(juires a sheltered 
situation for its perfection. 

A writer in Ihlgravia graphically describes the beauty of a 
Cocoa plantation with its luscious fruit : — 

" The branches do not grow low, so that in looking ihnvn a piece 
of ground the vista is like a miniature forest hung with thous.inds 
of goklen lamps — anything more knely cannot be imagined. 

" The Krythrina, or Cor.il-lree, or Cacao M.itlre. are first 
planted to protect the young Cocoa tree from the sun. The Coral 
tree grows to about the height of sixty feet and entirely drops 
its leaves about the end of March, and then becomes covered with 
flowers of a bright crimson, and shafted like a scimitar. .\l this 
season an extensive pl.iin covered with Cocoa plantations is a 
magnificent object when viewed from a height. The lops of the 
far-stretching Erythrina then present the appearance of being 
clothed with flames. As we rode along in admiration of the lavish 
profusion of nature, we, for the first time since we left the San 
Juan river. s;iw the Toucan, and one or two other varieties of new 
and brilliant birds. They were very tame, ioul evidently fell at 
home among the Cocoa groves. Connected with Senor 
Hurtados' establishment is a large and exceedingly well-kept 
Cocoa plantiition. The m;i7.y walks were wide and clean, and so 
effectually r(X)fed in by the broad tops of the cacao-madre that one 
might almost iniiigine oneself within the spacious aisles of some 
grand natural temple. 



14 cocoa: all about it. 

"As we approciched, we heard bursts of laughter, and the 
tinkling of musical instruments. We spurred forward and were 
soon in the midst of a scene as novel as it was inspiriting. There 
were broad avenues of huts, festooned with hammocks in front, in 
which the Senoritas were reclining in lively conversation with 
their red-sashed beaux, who idly thrummed their guitars, while 
the elders of both sexes, seated in the background, smoked their 
puros and cigaretos, pictures of indolence. Behind, the cattle were 
tethered to the trees, and here, too, were the fires for culinary 
purposes, around which the cocineras, chattering like parrots, 
were preparing the evening cup of Chocolate. Here we found 
most of our fair friends of the balconies, sipping Chocolate in a 
hurricane of spirits." 

There are several enemies to the Cocoa tree, among them 
being the monkey, squirrel, and deer, which are particularly fond 
of its tender fresh leaves. Parrots also are equally to be dreaded in 
a Cocoa plantation, but are more easily found out by the planter 
in consequence of their loud garrulity when they alight in flocks, 
but wherever they pick a pod with their bills, it rots, and falls to 
the ground. 

Of the \arieties and cultivation of Cocoa in Trinidad 
and Grenada, the following extracts are from the pen of 
D. Morris, M.A., F.G.S., Director of Public Gardens, etc., 
Jamaica (1882) : — 

Cacao : How to Grow and How to Cure it. 
" As in a large number of cultivated plants entirely propagated 
from seed, the Cacao plant is liable to considerable variation, even 
when seed is takenTrom the best kinds. It is important, therefore, 




Hi 




HISTORY AND CULTIVATION Ol- TIIK I'l.ANT. I 5 

that the Cacao planter sliould make himself acfiuainted with the 
chief varieties, and cultivate; only those specially suited for his soil 
and climate — carefully weeding out, or ' roguing,' all those which, 
from hahit of growth, yield, character of |)roduce, and other 
circumstances, are unsuitable for his purpose. 

"The following are some of the well marked varieties of Cacao 

as known in Trinidad : — 

Typical shape of 

Cocoa bean, 
viewed edgewise. 

1, Cacao Criollo( Red — lliin Skinned) — ] 

\'ar. a. Cundeainor verii^josa aniarillo (yellow) 1 

b. ., „ Colorado (red) J 

2. Cacao Forastero (Thick Skinned) — 

c. Liso amorillo (yellow)i 

d. „ Colorado ... (red) 

e. Amelonado aniariilo ... (yellow)J 

f. „ Colorado ... (red) 

g. Calabacilla amarillo 
h. „ Colorado 

• It will be noticed that the varitlies are divided into two great 
classes, Cacao Criollo and Cacao Forastero. Mr. J. llinchley 
Hart, F.L.S.. Superintendent of the Royal Botanical Gardens in 
Trinidad, divides them into three classes. 

"Of the Forastero varieties the best are the J'cruj^osa Amarillo 
(Yellow) and the V'crugosa Colorado (Red). Of these two the 
yellow kind is said to yield a larger proportion of seeds than the 
red, and they are said to re(|uire less time for fermentation. It 
appears that in Grenada also the yellow is preferreil to the red, 
both on account of its yield aiul its greater adaptability to the 
exigencies of cultivation. 




i6 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 



"The average mean temperature of the plains and valleys of 
Trinidad are naturally higher than similar localities in Jamaica, 
but if we would compare the temperature of Jamaica with that of 
the plains and valleys on the coasts of Guatemala and Mexico it 
would be found that our temperature is quite high enough for the 
successful cultivation of the Cacao plant. 

"As regards elevation, with the exception of some mountain 
ranges in the North, rising into sharp peaks of about 3>ooo feet, 
the surface of Trinidad is in general flat, or gently undulating. 

" The highest cultivated lands seldom exceed 200 feet or 300 
feet, and no parts are inhabited above 500 feet. In Arima and 




Curing House in (jrenada 







'»» "^ ^n 






T 



>^ 



i 



i^ 



IIISTOKV AM» «t LUNATION OK TIIK I'l-ANT. ly 

the Montserrat districts, the Cacao estates occupy ojx-n glades 
and moderately uiKliilating country, ranj^inj^^ from almost sea level 
to 150 feet or 200 feet. I'lic sub-soil in ihcse- districts is of a 
marlv character, overlaid, chielly in hollows, hy t^^avclly loam, 
moderately dee|) and remarkably free from rocks and stones. 

"In Grenada. Cacao is generally cultivated at a higher 
elevation than in Trinidad, some estates occupying hill sloj)es 
up to Scx) feet.* The best estates are, however, at the foot of the 
hills or in sheltered glades, on land formerly cultivated in sugar." 

As regards the planting. Cacao requires more care and 
thought than is generally imagined. 

I*\)r instance, it is not only necessary to be ready beforehand 
with Cacao seeds or plants, but the plants have to be shaded and 
protected by larger trees, which are put in either befori! the 
Cacao or at exactly the same time. The Cacao are planted at 
exactly the same distances apart, and in the centres of scjuares. 



♦ Mr. R. S. Ross gives us some interesting particulars of a Cocoa plantation, during 
a visit to the West Indies, .iboiii 1874 : — " It was in the mountains, several hundred feet 
above the level of the sea. The climate was quite Eurojxran, the thermometer seldom 
rising above 76". In the distance the deep blue sea, in the valley l>eIow the groves 
of Cocoa trees, interspersed with cokcr-nut trees and stately palms. Of the trees planted 
to shelter the Cocoa I will describe but a few. The Caracoli, as large as an elm, is 
planted in rows ; it is a splendid evergreen, bearing a sweet white blossom. Among other 
large trees are the bread-fruit, the shaddock, and the glorious mango, which is the si/e of 
a large horse-chestnut, and is thickly covered with leaves. The fruit is not unlike an egg- 
plum in shape, but three times as large and of a beautiful golden colour, strcakc<l 
with red.' 



iS 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 



Close to the Cacao plants are small shade plants to protect them 
for a few months : further off are the bananas and plantains, one 
between each Cacao plant, to last for about two or three years ; 




Copy of an old engraving (said to be the oldest in existence relating to Cocoa) showing the way in which the Cocoa 
Tree is shaded by other larger trees. {From Bontekoe's Wnrks.) 



and lastly there come the permanent shade trees, at distances of 
39 or 40 feet, which at the end of three or four years will be the 



HISTORV AM) CULTIVATK^N OI" TIIK ri.ANT. 1 9 

only occupants of ihc ground besides the Cacao.* The plant 
delights in a deep and moderately rich soil — that containing a 
certain proj)orlion of lime or marl being preferabl(;.t 

In planting, either of two systems may be adopt('d: — 
I — (a) Planting at stake (seeds), or (/^) planting from 
nurseries (plants). 

Plant iiii^ at Stake: — In this case the best and largest seeds 
in a pod are taken and two or three are planted at each stake, the 
soil being first softened and broken up by a hoe. 

After being sown, the seeds require both shade and protection 
till they h.ive germinated, which they generally do in a week or 
ten days. When the young plants are from four to six months 
old, the strongest only is retaint^tl, the others being carefully 
removed to give it full scope to grow. 

Planting by stake is only adopted in fresh good land, and 
where seeds are abundant. 

In addition to selecting the best and largest seeds (leaving 
out the end ones) it is advisable for this purpose to wash the pulp 
and cover thoroughly with wood-ashes, as a protection against 
ants and predatory vermin. 

♦ Dampier, in writing of the Island of Tobajjo, in the Hay of Panama, says : ".Among 
the CocAa trees grows the niammct, a straight tree without knot or branch, 70 feet 
in height, and with a tufted and interlaced head. This seems to serve as a parasol to the 
Cocoa tree, which is injured by the burning rays of the sun." Mr. Hart says . " For 
sh.tde in the lower lying lands in Trinidad, the tree generally used is the * Hocare ' 
or Krj-thrina velutin.i, which atTords a deep shade. For the higher lands, the '.\nauca' 
or Erythina umbrosa is used. The latter grows to a much greater height than the 
* Bocare,' and does not afford so dense a sh.ade." 

t Mr. Hart, F.l^.S., says : "The seed possesses but a short life if exposed to dr)- air ; 
if kept in a moist situation fermentation quickly sets in, and the seed becomes useless. 
It is thus very difficult to transport Car.10 seetl to distant c»)untries, unless placed under 
conditions favourable to germination, ("oro.i nny be sent in ripr pods for short iounicvs 
not exceeding 8 or 10 days." 



20 COCOA : ALL A150UT IT. 

Planting from Nurseries : — Where planting at stake is not 
practicable, it is advisable to establish, beforehand, nurseries raised 
from seed of the best varieties, so as to have plants ready for 
putting out with the first rains. If the number be small it would 
be better to raise the plants in bambu pots, as well for convenience 
of transport as for protection to the young plants in the process of 
transplanting. "^ 

Cacao trees in good situations begin to bear in about the 
third or fourth year. Individual trees will, however, sometimes 
show fruit when only two years old, but it is much better for the 
trees themselves that they should be stripped and not allowed to 
bear till at least the fourth or fifth year. A Cacao plantation 
should be in fair bearing from the sixth to the ninth years, and 
at its prime about the twelfth year. 

Gathering Crop : — Although Cacao is in bearing more or less 
all the year round, the chief crop seasons are in May and June, 
and again in October and November — these are known in 
Venezuela, where the famous Caracas Cacao is grown, as the 
St. John's and Christmas crops, respectively. 



* Mr. Hart says : "With those who prefer raising plants in boxes, the best method 
would be to procure well-rotted and sifted coco-nut refuse, and to sow seeds about 
^-inch below the surface, the boxes being about six inches in depth, and well-drained. 
A suitable substitute for Coco (Coker)-nut refuse may be found in well decomposed leaf- 
mould. Immediately the plants have developed their first pair of leaves, they may 
be potted or transferred to nursery beds, in both cases shading them until well 
established. If transferred to beds, especial care must be taken not to plant too 
low in the ground, * * * covered with about one inch of soil.' 



HISTORY AND CULTIVATION OF THE PLANT. 2 1 

Gathering crop is done as follows : — A number of men. each 
supplied with a long bambu rod surmounted by a Cacao hook and 
a cutlass, go carefully over the plantation and pick out all the 
ri|>e pods. 

These are known by their colour, or better still, by tapping 
them. If ripe they give a hollow sound, as the seeds are then 
loose and detached from the outer shell. In gathering 
|xxis the Cacao hook is used, but the lower ones are ta 
a cutlass. The Cacao hook is constructed so tha 
the pod either by a thrust or by a draw. 

I'ew operations upon a Cacao estate require gr 
gathering crop, and for the following reasons : — 

At the i-i.i^v where a pod is attached (formerly 
there is a soft cushion or "eye," from which all subsequeil 
and fruits arise. If this "eye" be damaged — as it inevitably would 
be if the pod were ruthlessly torn off instead of'being cut — the 
tree, as far as this point is concerned, becomes sterile. Hence, if 
a succession of these "eyes" are thus treated, the tree would 
sjKiedily become j)ractically valueless. 

When the pods have been gathered and left in small heaps 
near the trees, they are collected by women into larger heaps, and 
left till the next day. 

The l.irger heaps are generally placed near a cle.ir, ojK-n space, 
where the processes of " breaking" and "drawing" can be con 




cocoa: all about it. 



veniently carried out. , It is advisable, however, not to use the 
same spot too often, as the empty pods accumulate and prove an 
impediment to the cultivation. 




Implements used for severing the Fruit from the Tree, and cutting open the Pod. 

A party, consisting of a man with a cutlass and two or three 
women with wooden spoons or scalpels, are told off to a number 
of heaps, and by each one they spread plantain leaves on the 
ground to receive the seeds. Then, while the man breaks the 
pods with his cutlass, the women remove the beans with the 
wooden spoons, clean them of the fibrous tissue by which they are 
attached, and throw them in a large heap. 

All black, unripe, or damaged beans are placed on one side. 







u 



IlISTOKV AM) CULTIVATION OK TIIK I'LANT. 23 

When ihis process is comijlctcd, the fresh seeds are ready to 
be conveyed or "crooked " to the Cacao house, and placed in the 
" sweating " house. 

This process is one upon which, in a gre.a im isuk-, im- 
commercial value of Cocoa depends. The first impulse of a 
grower would be to remove the pulp between the seeds by washing, 
and dry the beans as quickly as possible. This, however, would 
not result in a good quality of Cocoa. The pulp must be removed, 
but washing is not the best process. 

The fresh bean will be found to be sonK^vhat bitter in taste, 
and of a i)ale crimson colour ; b(Hh t;iste and colour have to be 
altered before the bean is fit for the market. 

The best means for this pur[)ose is evidently the one now 
generally adopted in all good Cacao-growing countries, namely, 
** sweating," or fermenting the beans. This, for the most part, 
gets rid oi the pulp, softens the bitterness of the fresh beans, and 
gives them, when cured, that rich mahogany tint so much sought 
for by chocolate makers. 

The sweating process may briefly be described as follows : — 
The beans brought from the field are placed either in barrels, 
oblong bo.xes, or in a close room, where they are packed closely 
together, covered with i)lantain leaves, and left hermetically sealed 
for a jieriod extending from four to seven days. The exact numljcr 
of days will depend on the variety of the be.ui or (juality of Cacao 
desired. While thus shut up, a process of fermentation, set up by 
the saccharine matter in the pulp, takes place, which raises the 



24 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

temperature of the mass to about 140° Fah,* During fermentation 
carbonic acid is given off, and some water. In wet weather care 
is taken that the temperature of the mass does not rise too high, as 
if it should the beans would blacken. It is often necessary, under 
these circumstances, to open the Cacao, and carefully stir it before 
it is returned, to complete the fermenting process.! 

For a plantation, say, above 10 acres, it would be more con- 
venient and satisfactory to have a small building for the purpose 
attached to the Cacao house, called a "sweating house." ^ 

This house would be somewhat as follows : An oblong room 
on the basement story, or mounted on pillars, with boarded sides 
carefully fitted, so as to be perfectly air-tight. The only opening 
would be by a door, which should also fit as tightly as possible. 
For keeping crops gathered at different times distinct, it is 
advisable to have a division in the middle. The floor should be 
double, and constructed of rather close parallel bars, so as to allow 
water, but no beans, to fall through into a space below. 

When the formerly pale crimson colour has given place to a 
brownish tint, the Cocoa is turned out and spread on the " tray " 
or "barbecue." It is first of all carefully picked over by women, 
who separate the beans from "trash" or any foreign substances. 
This done, the beans are covered with red earth, and left 

* Dr. Chittenden, in his "Prize Essay," says: "115° to 120° is the requisite 
temperature." 

t Dr. Chittenden tells us that fermentation is "essentially alcoholic," and that, 
" acting on the bean, both through the pores of the pelicule and through the opening of 
the top, known as the ' Hile,' vaporises the aqueous elements, and develops the fatty 
substance which absorbs and retains the aroma ot the Cacao." J. Hinchley Hart adds : 
" The prime object, therefore, appears to be to change the inside portions of the bean by 
absorbing into it products obtained from the fermenting pulp. 



i y \ 

1 










K . 



IIISTOUV AM) CL-LTIVATION OF TIIK I'LANT. 2^ 

for another clay to coincide the pn^ccssof fcrinciUaiion. A miinljcr 
of women are then employed for one or two hours in rubbing 
them with their hands, and cleaning them as thoroughly as 
possible from all mucilaginous and gummy matters. 

The red earth, by its absorbent qualities, assists in ridding 
the beans of the mucilage, and gives them a deep red colour ; it 
is also supposed to give them better keeping qualities. A large 
proportion of Trinidad Cacao is cleaned without the use of red 
earth, but the process is much more tedious and the beans are not 
so good in colour and general appearance. In Jamaica, a large 
quantity of red earth for the purpose can be obtained from what 
are called the ** Red Hills," St. Andrews. When the cleaning 
and rubbing process has been completed, the lx:ans are spread 
out on a tray to dry. 

While drying they .uc v^.trefully turned, so as to expose them 
completely to the inllucnce of the sun ; but in case of rain they are 
immediately covered by the sliding roof of the Cacao house. 
During the hottest part of the day, when the thermometer stands 
over 90"* in the shade, it is considered undesirable to expose the 
beans too much to the sun, as thereby they become " parched " or 
shrivelled. The Cacao house is therefore generally shut on hot 
days for three or four hours, and the Cacao exposi-d only when 
the tem|)eniture is low. 

The process of turning and drying is continued from day to 
day until the Cacao is thoroughly cured.* 

thr .'. .,, .... - hot- 

» .irc .iiT.in;;c<l m .1 '»n box, i* travel 

$1. -.1 ..!i .1 1).in.l <<( n.' .»t ill. .1 $cne« 

of . move al cx.u t hc-.i required 

5 ; . and an c ■ • of each « ■• 



26 COCOA : ALL A150UT IT. 

The experience of the planter alone can tell whether the 
Cacao is thoroughly dry. 

If well cured it should have the outer skin hard, crisp, and 
separating easily from the bean below. The latter should be firm, 
bright, and breaking easily on pressure into the familiar Cacao 
nibs of commerce. 

It will be noticed that, so far, no washing of the Cacao beans 
has taken place. The process of cleaning is accomplished solely 
by the alternating operations of rubbing and drying with, as already 
mentioned in some instances, the aid of red "clay" or earth. 

A healthy Cacao tree in good soil yields from fifty to several 
hundred pods per annum. The average for well-cultivated trees, 
at seven years old, should be between eighty and one hundred pods 
per annum. As it generally takes about eleven pods to yield one 
pound of cured Cacao, the above would indicate that a good mature 
Cacao tree, under favourable circumstances, might yield, on an 
average, not less than seven pounds of cured Cacao. The average 
yield per tree (at all stages) on an estate of, say, 300 acres, would 
probably not exceed some two or three pounds p t tree, or (taking 
230 trees per acre) a return of 4 cwt. to 6 cwt. of cured Cacao 
per acre. 

Before closing this chapter it may be well clearly to distinguish 
the Theobroma Cacao, of which we are treating, from the Coker 
Nut Palm fCocos NitcifcraJ, which grows to the height of 100 
feet, and produces the large Coker Nut with its hard white lining 
and the sweet milky juice inside. 




i 



IIISTOKV AND 1 LI.TIVATION OF TIIi: I'l.ANT. 27 

Also from the Coca plant (Enftliroxi/lon coca), a small shrub 
growing aiul largely ciillivatcd in l*cru and Bolivia, and also in 
Jamaica and St. Lucia. I'Vom the leaves of the last is extracted 
the important product Cocaine, which has acquired a place in the 
first rank of alkaloids of metlicinal value. 

There are also several species of Cocoa all distinct from our 
cultivated Theobroma Cacao and its varieties, viz. : Thcobroma 
hiio/or, T. Guiancsis, T. Syhcs/ns, /. Ovatifolia, T. Au<rHstifolia. 
all natives of tropical regions, extending from Mexico t«> Hra/il. 

A fruit grows on the Seychelles Islands called " Coco de Mer." It is a double 
cocoa-nut, wei>jhinjj about % cwt. and j^jows on a tree which attains the height of 80 
or 100 feet. The leaves are proportionately larj^e, averaj^jinij ei^'ht to twenty feet in 
length, and ten to twelve in breadth. It is not known to be of any commercial value, 
although General Gordon held the strange belief that it was the " Forbidden Fruit " in 
the garden of Kden, and th.it the rivers of the Seychelles corresponded with those 
mentioned in Genesis. 











'V^Mk>^i--^M'^:'i 



■ ■"; *^<-ir'' 




>-■ 



mf^ - .f' 






CHAPTER II. 



HISTORY OF THE USE OF COCOA. 




OOKING at 
( the early- 



works on the 
use of Cocoa, we find 
them very quaint and 
speculative as to its 
medicinal value, and 
its effect upon the con- 
stitution. 

In an extract 

from the " Harleian 

Miscellany," Vol. 8 

(1673), we find, "The 

grand Concern of 

England explained, in 

several proposals offered for the consideration of 

Parliament by a Lover of his Country." No. 6 

reads: "The sixth thing proposed is the prohibition of brandy, 

rum, coffee, chocolate and tea, and the suppressing of coffee-houses ; 

these hinder greatly the consumption of barley, malt and wheat, the 



J'reesnts of Cocoa and Other Fruits 

Brought to Benzonius. 

De Bry's " History of America." 

Frankfort : 1600. 




Rt y r wim t iu Q of aa nib i'uu« \i<m») Iraw i/vrvva ■ '' 1 i«AT»«a vm Corrft* I kA, Aliv C<*u<v*^iK." 



msToKV oi Tin: r>i-: of cocoa. , 

prcxluct of our l.md " (wli.it a tlcliciuus bit for the I'rotcclionists of 
our il.iy). "There is so vitst .i quantity of brandy, rum, coffee, lc;i 
and Sp.mish Chocolate every year iniportetl into ICngland, that there 
is expended by the subjects yearly in these drinks alx)ve /^400,ooo. 
In short, brandy burns th«! hearts of His Majesty's subjects, and 
for coffee, tea and chocolate, I know no good they do." 

As early as 1624, Joan IVan Rauch wrote a treatise 
condemnatory of the u se of Coc oa as avi ^ e p^ inllamer^of 
s ^^and enl arged on the necessity of forbidd i i nr the monks 
to diiak It ; and adds, "that if such an niterdiction had existed 
that scandal with which that iioly order had been branded might 
li.i\c i»r()\('il groun(ll<'ss." 

■ i nis ' Dispulalio medico cli^Ltetita dc acre i.l r^culenlis, 
de necnon j)olu,' Vienna 1624, is i\ ram aiis among collectors. 
Its attack on the monks, as well as on Chocolate, Wiis said to 
be the cause of its scarcity."* 

We have a curious collection ot the opinions of theol«>gians 
upon the question of "Fasting from Chocolate in Lent," in a volume 
published in Italian by Daniel Concuna, Venice, 174S. He says : 
"Among the first Probabitist Theologi.ms who undertook to 
write entire Treatises, and to collect all the possible reasons 
as to whether the Indian beverage (Chocolate) could agree with 
European fasting, was l^'ather Tommiuso Hurtado. He employed 
the whole of the tenth Treatise of the 2nd Volume of the 
•Moral Resolutions,' printed in 1651. uul added thereto an 
appendix of more chapters. 



* D'Israeli's " Curiosities of Literature." 



30 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

" Father Diana found reason for acquitting the consciences 
of those who in time of fasting should drink Chocolate. Father 
Hurtado. more courageous withal, and more benign than Diana, 
does not speak of this Treatise in order to investigate the law ; 
the nature of fasting admits drinking without eating. ^^ * * 
Therefore consumers are, without the help of casuists, troubled 
themselves and afflicted when in Lent they empty Chocolate 
cups. * * =^ Excited on the one hand by the pungent 
cravings of the throat to moisten it, reproved on the other by 
breaking their fast, they experience grave remorse of conscience, 
and, with consciences agitated and torn with drinking the sweet 
beverage, they sin. * * * Under the guidance of these 
skilful Theologians, the remorse aroused by natural and Divine 
light being blunted, Christians drink joyfully." 

The Treatise closes by saying : " For all agree that he will 
break his fast who eats any portion of Chocolate, which dissolved 
and well mixed with warm water is not prejudicial to keeping a 
fast. 

" This is a sufficiently marvellous pre-supposition. He who 
eats four ounces of exquisite sturgeon roasted breaks his fast ; if 
he has it dissolved and prepared in an extract of thick broth he 
does not sin." 

When we realise how ignorance and prejudice go hand in 
hand, we need not be surprised to find the Spectator, April 29th, 
17 1 2, placing Chocolate in a list of dangerous things to be 
avoided : "I shall also advise my fair readers to be in a particular 
manner careful how they meddle with romances, Chocolates, 



LtLu:9l0 




C'Ufy Ol An r .^r.ixi-,:. It m a rjtr o r «. !.y iniii|.(«- >\i\THrr i>nl-ur. » 
rhnrnlatr po< arKl drinking cup, antl ibc " molincl," or Mirrcr, r 



HISTORY OK TIIK USE OF COCOA. 3 1 

novels. .iikI ilu' likt: inll.imcrs, which I Untk upon as Nx-ry 
dangerous to Ik- mluIc use of during lliis great carnival (the 
month of May). 

Dr. Dunc.ui. of ihe I-'aculty of M()iU[K.lier, Lonilon, six years 
earlier (1706). said : " Coffee, Chocolate and Tea were at the first 
used only as medicines while they continued unpleasant, but since 
they were made delicious with sui;ar. they are become poison. 
* * *■ If j)Kasure did not deserve it as a passport, that would 
be stopp'd at the gate of lh<- I louse where lh(! .Soul dwells." 

Almost contemporary with Rauch's treatise, was a book written 
by Anloino Colmenero tie Ledesma. Medicin ami Chirurgien. de 
la \ille de Hcija, de rAiulalouzie. 1631; which was translated 
from the Spanish into I'rench by Rene Moreau, in 167 1; into 
Latin by Marco Aurelio Severino, in 1644; and put into I-.nglish 
by Don Dieij^ode \'ades-forte. London, 1640. 

Willem Hcjntekoe, a Dutch author and traveller, wrote sundry 
short treatises on Cocoa and Chocolate about 1679. De Chclus. 
I 7 10. wrote a " Ilistoire Xaturelle du Cacoa et de Sucre." 

Another l* rench work. " On the Quality and Nature of 
Chocolate," by rhilijipe Sylvestre Dufour, in 168S. from which 
we copy some of the very interesting engravings, is translated 
into I*'nglish from the last edition of the French, by R. Brookes, 
M.D.. .'730. 

Larly travellers to the newly di.scovered world have left us 
a fund of curious and interesting information respecting the use of 
Cocoa among the native races. 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 



Josephus Acosta (1604). writing of its use in Mexico and 
Peru, says : " The chief use of this Cocoa is in a drincke which 



they call Chocholate, whereof they make great account, foolishly 
and without reason ; for it is loathsome to such as are not 
acquainted with it, having a skumme or frothe that is very 
unpleasant to taste, if they be not w^ell conceited thereof Yet it 
is a drincke vjsry: much esteemed among the Indians, whereof they 
feast noble men as they passe through their country. The 
Spaniards, both men and women, that are accustomed to the 
country are very greedy of this Chocholate. They say they make 
diverse sortes of it, some bote, some colde, and put therein much 
of that Chili ; yea, they make paste thereof, the which they say 
is good for the stomacke, and against the catarre." 

A quarto of 39 pages, of very early date, "printed at London 
for Christopher Wilkinson, at the Black Boy over against 
St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet Street, condemns Chocolate on 
account of the sugar with which it is mixed " : "As for the great 
quantity of sugar which is commonly put in (Chocolate), it may 
destroy the native and genuine temper of the Chocolate, sugar 
being such a corrosive salt, and such an hypocritical enemy of the^ 
body. Simeon Pauli (a learned Dane) thinks sugar to be one 
cause of our English consumption, and Dr. Willis blames it as 
one of our universal scurvies ; therefore when Chocolate produces 
any ill effect, they may be often imputed to the great superfluity 
of its sugar." 

On the other hand, the writer says: "All the American 
Travellers have written such panegyricks, that I should degrade 
this royal liquor if I should offer any ; yet several of these curious 



Ifl'^TOKV OF THE USE OF COCOA. ;, ; 

Travellers aiul ph) sici.ms do ap^rcc in this, iliai the cocoa-iuil h.is a 
woiuUrful faculty of quenching ihirsl, allaying heciick heats, of 
nourishing and Hitt ening th e body." Mr. Hughes informs us 
that he lived at seii for some months on noihin^^ hut Chocolate, 
.ind that he grew very fat in Jamaica by virtue of the cocoa-nut ; 
as he judges it most proper for lean, weak and consumptive 
complexions. 

According to Bancroft's "Native Races of the Pacific .States," 
the Aztecs " dug up the bones of giants at the foot of the moun- 
tains, and collected by their dwarfish successors, ground to powder, 
mixed with Cocoa, and drunk as a cure for diarrhoea and dysentery;" 
and the same author tells us that " Scalding hot Cocoa mixed with 
chile is the favorite stimulant, of which large quantities are imbibed, 
until the perspiration starts from every pore." 

In Gage's "New Survey of the West Indies," London, 1648. 
we have a curious account of the use of Cocoa in the Intlies, and 
the part taken by the Missions of the " Friars and Jesuiles " in 
introducing it into Kurope. He says : "The Indian Fryer being 
well sett out with high commendations, and fairly painted with 
flattering elogics, presents these his patents (with a little wedge of 
gold, a box of j>earls, some rubies or diamonds • ♦ • ^vith 
some boxes of curious Chocolate, &c.), to the Pope ; who. for his 
first reward, gives him his Toe and Panlolle to kiss^ # • ♦ .^^^^ 
judging him worthy of the best of the Indian wealth, and his soul, 
jxiradventure, fit for the title of a saint • • • Then would he 
acta Med.Lsand Crccsus, fancying th e trees to be hung with cluste rs 
of Nutmegs bigger than tKe clusters of the grapes of Can;ian, the 



34 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

fields to be plant ed with sugar canes, which should so sweeten the 
chocolate^ thnf it should fa4ice -exc&ed the milk and honey of the^ 
Land of Promise." 

High living was the order of the day in the city of Mexico, 
where, he says, " We found that two or three hours after a good 
meal of three or four dishes of mutton, veal, or beef, kid, turkeys, 
or other fowles, our stomackes w^ould bee ready to faint, and so wee 
were fain to support them with a cup of Chocolatte, &;c., which 
was allowed in great abundance." 

He speaks of Chiapa, southward from Mexico, as being "the 
most remarkable place in the way. -^ ^ ^ Here are also 
two c loisters of nun s which are talked of far andjiear, not for their 
religious prac tices, but for their skill in making drinkes which are 
used in those parts , the ,one_^alled Chocolatte, anoth er Atolle . 
Chocolatte is (also) made up in boxes and sent not only to 
Mexico, but much of it yearly transported into Spain." 

Gage made himself at home with these dignitaries of the 
Church, who, though they feasted right sumptuously at times, had 
their second meal in the day of bread and water : " The 
gentlemen of Chiapa are a by-word all about that country, of great 
birth, pharisticke pride, joyned with simplicity, ignorance, and 
penury. One hundred fighting soldiers would easily lay low these 
Chiapa Dons, and gain the whole city, which lyeth so open to the 
fields that the mules and asses come in and graze. -^ * =* 
The women of that city, it seems, pretend much weakness and 
squeamishness of stomack, which they say is so great, that they 
are not able to continue in church while the mass is briefly 
hurried over, much lesse while a solemn, high mass is sung and a 




« -s- 



; < 



.'4 



HISTORY OF TllE USK 35 

sermon prcachctl, unlcs they drink i» of hot Chocolutc. and 

eat .1 bit of sweetmeats to strenijthen their stomnck r this 

puqxDsc it was much usei! by the m to : brin^ 

them to church, in the middle of_mas5L-jjr_ auiiiiuii* .i cup of. 
C ' which could n«>t ' ' 

pi ^ -"^ '"Ji ^ivcn f.iire warning for the 

(vnittini^ of it, liut all without am»»nflm*'nt. lhouj[rht fit to fix in 

iH 
such ;is ^ ke 

i iii.s c\co:n;i)u;ucaUu:i \\a--> l.tkcn b\ .t.l, but 
<^j"«...ii.% i.^^ i.n: gcnilewomen. much to heart, \vhf^> . ,- . . . .. i \( 
they mij^ht not eate or drinke in the church t! not 

coniinur in it to hear what otherwise the;. ind unto. 

• Hut none of these re.Lsons would move the Bishop. 

• The women seeint; him so hard to be entreated, began 
to -sUgtu him with scornefull and reproachfuU words ; others 
sleii^hleil his excommunication, drinking in iniquity in the church, 
iis the fish doth w.iter, which causctl one day such an uprcKir in 
the CathedniU that many swords were drawne agiiinst the Priests, 
who attempted t<j take away from the maids the cups of Chocolatte 
which they brought unto their mistresses, who, at l.ist seeing thai 
neithtT fiire or foule means would prev.iil with the HIshop, 

resolved t<> f.>r>.ik'- l!i'- ( ' itlic Ir ill nid so frnrn that linv n »st of 

the city I .rchf<. !)y 

the Nuns and Fryers they were noijLroubled. 

"The liishop fell dangerously sick, Physicians 

were sent for far and nccre. who all with a joynt opinit)n agreed 
that the Bishop w;is |>oisoned. 



36 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

" A gentlewoman, with whom I was well acquainted, was 
commonly censured to have prescribed such a cup of Chocolatte to 
be ministered by the Page, which poisoned him who so rigorously 
had forbidden Chocolatte to be drunk in the Church. My self 
heard this gentlewoman say that the women had no reason to 
grieve for him, and that she judged, he being such an enemy to 
Chocolatte in the Church, that which he had drunk in his house 
had not agreed with his body. And it became afterwards a 
Proverbe in that country, 'Beware of the Chocolatte of Chiapa.' 

"The gentlewoman that was suspected of the death of the 
Bishop had often used to send me boxes of Chocolatte, which I 
willingly received of her, judging it to be a kind of gratuity for 
the paines I took in teaching her son Latin ; untill one day she 
sent unto mee a faire plantin, wrapped up in a handkerchief buried 
in sweet jassimines and roses; and looking further upon it, I found 
worked upon it with a knife the fashion of a heart with two blind 
Cupid's arrows sticking in it, discovering unto my heart the 
thoughts of the poisoner that sent it. I thought it a good warning 
to be wary of receiving such presents, or Chocolatte, from such 
hands, and so returned unto her again her plantin with this short 
rhyme cut out with a knife upon the skinne, ' Fruta tan fria, amor 
no cria,' as much as to say, ' Fruit so cold, takes no hold.' 

" I remembered the Bishop's Chocolatte and so was wary, and 
staid not long after in that poisoning and wicked city, which truly 
deserves no better relation than what I have given of the simple 
Dons and the Chocolatte-confectioning Dorenas." 

No doubt, the Priests were blameworthy in bartering 
the priestly powers of the Confessional for the earthly wealth 




o <• 






U3 'A 



HISTORY OV TIIK USK OK COCOA, 37 

and luxuries of the country, which would in some mciisure re-acl 
in making them disguise their office. 

Gage tells us, " ' I h.ii upo n s.iint d.i)s the ouiur ^/I^^ Uie s.iint 
makes a great feast, the IViest beiuLr presented for his mass 



and sermon, be sides a turkey and three <jr four fowls, with as 
much Coco. I as will serve him to make Chocolate for the who le 
octave. 1 nese feasts bring yet unto the Saints more profit 
Tlian mtherlo hath been spoken of; for the Indians have 
been taught that upon such days they ought to offer up somewhat 
unto the Saints, anil therefore they prepare either money. Cocoa or 
fruits, which they lay^ before the image of the saint whilst the 
m<iss is celebrating, so that iht.' Priest hath a plentiful harvest in 
Lent for his pains in hearing their confessions." 

According to tradition. Xinucuic invented nine drinks, the 
fourth of which was composed of ground maize and Cocoa, and was 
d< ^ e specially for public festivals. F"or the fifth the butter 

was rxiracted from Cocoa and mixed with maize. The si.xlh was 
prej^iired from raw maize, ground, the fermented licjuor of which, 
mixed with C(Koa, drunk by the Itzas. was called Zata. 

liernal Diaz del Caslilio. whose work on the Coiujuest of 
.Mexico was completed in 156S. also alluded to a fermented liquor 
made from Cocoa and used l)y Montezuma: "After the hot dishes 
(300 in number) had been removed from Montezuma's dinner-table, 
every now and then was handed to him a golden jiiicher filled with 
a kind of licjuor made from the Cocoa, which is of a very exciting 
nature. The beverage was also j)rcscntcd to the monarch by 
women, with the gp 't--f \«'neration. 



38 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 



" Montezuma took oreat delight in the entertainment, and 
ordered the broken victuals and pitchers of Cocoa liquor to be 
distributed among these performers" (jesters, &c.). 

Our knowledge of Cocoa as an article of diet dates from the 
discovery of the Western world in 1494, by Columbus, who, we 
are told, took home with him samples of the article ; and from the 
subjugation of Mexico by Cortes in 1521. History informs us that 
the Spaniards wer^^he^firs^jvvdio__tast^ which was part 

of their spoil in the conquest of Mexico. Bernardo de Castile, 
who accompanied Cortes, describing one of Montezuma's banquets, 
says: " They brought in among the dishes above fifty great jars 
made of ' Cacao,' with its froth, and drank it," similar jars being 
served to the guards and attendants " to the number of 2,000 
at least." 




Copy of an engraving from Dufour's book. 



Prescott, in his " History of the Conquest of Peru," says that 
"The emperor took no other beverage than the Chocolatl, a potation 
of Chocolate flavoured with vanilla and other spices, and so prepared 




M. N 1 1 /• ^• V. \ HIS %i>i III. «TTiiiri< i\ \v t* t«»r« 

rML.M A IIAUK A!<II<VtH .NrAM*M TlilST 




HISTORV OF Tin Is! i »i ( « n n.v. 39 

as to be reduced l<» .1 froth ot ihc cuiisislency of honey, which 
gradually dissolved in the mouth, and was taken cold. This 
heverage, if so it could be called, was served in golden goblets, 
with spoons of the same metal, or of tortoiseshell fuKrly wrought." 
Antonio de litrrcra, in his "History of th«; West ln<li<s,"' 
vol. ii.. page 425, writes ili.it " One of Montezuma's storehouses 
contained 40,000 loads of Cocoa * * The Cocoa was in 
wicker baskets, which six men could not grasp." This vast store 
of Cocoa was tribute i)aid to Montezuma by the j)r()vinc«'S which 
were subject to him. 

As ^lontczu ma was the greatest patro n of the cultivation of 
Cocoii,^ he merits more than a passing notice. The dazzling 
treiusures of gold, silver, and jewels, " from the ri\er of Kmeralds, " 
and vast stores of wealth, tempted the cupidity of Cortes ami his 
mercenaries to plunder and destroy the power of a prince who 
swayed the sceptre with such wisdom that he was held in greater 
reverence and awe than any other prince of his lineage, or, indeed, 
any that ever sat on a throne in the western world. " With him 
may be said to have terminated the royal line of the Aztecs, and 
the glory to have passed away from the empire, which under 
him had reached the zenith of its prosperity."* 

\\'«- cannot now fully estimate the extent and beauty of 
.Monie/uma's glorious capital, with its great causeway ext(!nding for 
miles thn)ugh the heart of the city, antl intersected by broatl canals 
and bounded on each side by temjiles, terraces, and gardens, so 
that a S|>ectator standing at <nie end of it might look into the 
deep vista which melted in the tr.msparcnt atmospht-re of the blue 
mounUiins in the distance. 



* Mist, de IlascaLi. I'racoii n 

1)2 



40 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

But it is more difficult to realise the brutality and treachery of 
Cortes in seizing and holding captive the generous and noble 
Emperor who had treated him with all the honours of a trusted 
guest. While still in captivity the people welcomed his brother 
Cuitlahua as the representative of their sovereign, and he led them 
on to victory against the Spaniards, expelling them after a desperate 
struggle from the city. It was after the death of Montezuma — • 
while in captivity — and of Cuitlahua, that Ouauhtimoc was crowned 
Emperor of the Aztecs. This last monarch of the royal line was 
nephew to Montezuma and married his beautiful daughterTecuichpo. 

He defended his capital with the utmost bravery, again and 
again defeating the Spaniards, and refusing to capitulate at the 
last, even at the greatest extremity. When captured, Cortes put 
him to the torture to discover his hidden treasure, but, as the 
historian relates, " The hero w4io had braved death in its most 
awful forms was not to be intimidated by bodily suffering," He 
thus put to shame his cruel conqueror, but so insatiable was the tyrant 
for venoreance that he soon afterwards had his victim executed 
on a false charge of conspiracy, although, according to the account 
given us by Bernal Diaz, who was present on the occasion, he 
declared his innocence, adding, "The execution was most unjust, 
and was thought wrong by all of us." Prescott pays him a 
splendid tribute in these words : " Such was the sad end of 
Guatemozin (Quauhtimoc), the last Emperor of the Aztecs * * 
Among all the names of barbarian princes there are few entitled 
to a higher place on the roll of fame than that of Guatemozin. 
He was young, and his public career was not long, but it was 
glorious. *, * * Xo one can refuse his admiration to the 
intrepid spirit which could prolong a defence of his city while one 
stone was left upon another, and our sympathies for the time are 



* " T k ' X ' m^.m. ' %^^L*M ' ^ ' .Vi!^.vy."iy ' ^'^ j^ ' ' j j t . v. r r^ 







^ fi 



:^ 2 



^1 



li 
4 2 






Si 

""8 



IIISTOKV OK TilK ISK OV ((XOA. 4 1 

iiutvilablv thrown more into the scale ot llu* rude chietuiiii, lluis 
battling for his country's freedom than into that of his (ivlli/«<l 
antai^onist. " 

Guatcmozin's beautiful wife, the Princess Tecuichpo, lh<! 
dautjhter of Montezuma, lived long enough after his death to give 
her hand to four Castilians, all of noble descent, and her husband 
Don Thoan Cano speaks of her as "most gracious and winning 
in her deportment," and as " having contributed greatly, by h(!r 
example, to the tranquillity of her conquered country." 

We find that the Cocoa seeds were extensively u sed lj[y_JLlie 
Mexicans for currency. Peter Martyr gave them on this account 
the name Aviygdahc p€cunia7-iu\ and exclaims: " Blessed money ! 
which exempts its [)ossessors_jVQrTL_uvarice^ sinrc it cmnot l>e. 
hoarded nor hidden under ground." 

Joseph Acosta. "the great Jesuit." in his " Historie of 
the East and West Indies." tnuislated and publisheil 1604, in 
London, says: " Thf Indians used no gold nor silver to trafticke 
or buy withall * * * -^^w^ unto this d.iy this custom continues 
amongst the Indians, as in the province of .Mexico in steede 
of money they use Cocoa (which is .1 small fruile), and therewith 
buy what they will." 

Thomas Candish. who was the sec(-Mul of the Circum- 
navigators, in an account of a voyage begun July ist, 15S6, 
relates that: " Here were laid up (/.c. at .\gatulco, two leagues 
from the river Copalita), four hundred bags of Cacaos, every l>ag 
being worth itm crowns. 

"These Cacaos serve amongst themboih Iim ' y. 

insteacTof ready money. 150 of ih-m .1 ig 

,r,.,w1 ,< . R,..l ..f rT>t,.'"r,TM)ut 6'd.). 



• « * 



42 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT, 

Sir Hans Sloane, in his "Voyages" (1725), tells us that " The 
Indians of the desolate province of Soconusco pay the King their 
tribute in Cacao, giving him 400 cargas, and every carga is 24,000 
almonds, which is worth 30 pieces of Real of Plate." 

The tribute paid to the Lords of Mexico was principally in 
Cocoa seeds, or prepared Chocolate, which men counted or 
weighed into baskets or chests. They were charged for tribute to 
repair the church called Huiznahuac, in the city of Tlatilulco 
(which is called by the Spaniards, St. James). 

The coloured prints are from the collection and interpretation 
of Mendoza's Hieroglyphics, and are nearly all tables of tribute to 
be paid to the Mexican King, comprising facsimiles of ancient 
Mexican paintings preserved in the Royal Libraries of Paris, 
Berlin, Dresden, Vienna, and in the Vatican, at Rome, and in 
the Bodleian, at Oxford."^^ 

is the sign of 20. The ear of corn inserted signifies 400. 



E 



The large basket contained half a fanega (a Spanish measure 
for dry goods, containing about 100 Spanish pounds) of Chocolate 
ground with the meal of maize, which they called Cacuhuapinol. 
Each basket was required to have 1,600 dried almonds of Cocoa. 

*" At the time of the arrival of the Spaniards great quantities of these manuscripts 
were treasured up in the country. Numerous persons were employed in painting, and the 
dexterity of their operations excited the astonishment of their conquerors. Unfortunately 
this was mingled with other and unworthy feelings. They were looked upon as magic 
scrolls ; and were regarded in the same light with the idols and temples, and as the 
symbols of a pestilent superstition." Prescott's " Mexico." 

Consequently the first Archbishop of Mexico had them all "piled up in a 'mountain- 
heap' in the market place of Tlatelolco, and reduced them all to ashes." A few Mexican 
manuscripts found their way to Europe. The most important is the one mentioned above, 
which, after a disappearance for more than a century, has at length found its way to the 
Bodleian Library. 







f 'SVj vii ^'z 
;..Mi 





Z2-, 




^^^ ^m^ 




V 



MJW 




c^iUjL 



<^^± yi.J)c 




0*\jt, ^J*-***^"*"*^ 



^2x»<^ 



I'n.in AriiisiiM \..ii.,v' • \ \ i k^h 1 1 ii^ >, ,,i M»\,. .- 



HISTORY (i| liiK I Nj. <»K COCOA. 43 

The Xicara. whicli llu,-y naiiu; Tccomatcs, arc made from the 
long or pcar-shaj)ccl calabash, arc ohv.n tasicfully carved, and are 
generally used for Coffee and Chocolate : hut as their Iwttoms are 
round, little carved stands are made to receive them. The 
Indians of Nicaragua make similar cups from a variety of Cocoa- 
nut peculiar lo that vicinity, which are celebrated throughout their 
country for their beauty of shape antl ornament. 




(P'rom Sqiiicr's " Nicaragua.") 

Bancroft, in his " Native Races of the Pacific States." says : 
" Although no regular coined money was used by the Aztecs, yet 
several more or less convenient substitutes furnished a medium of 
circulation. Chjef among these wer e nibs^f the Cacao, * * ♦ 
this money, known as patlachte, passed current anywhere, and 
payments were made of it by count up to eight thousand, which 
constituted a xifpiipilli. Another circulating medium was gold 
dust, k't.f 'n "inslucent ([uills, that the (jualiiy might be reatlily 
seen." 

In another pi. ice he tells us. *' Ch<>coJate_ancLjOtheii_4lriilkii_ 
prepared from Cocoa were uniyersaLf«iV-P"riies amc)ng the Maj^a 
Nations, and were prepared from the wild and cultivatetl 
varieties." Oviedo states that at Nicaragua " none but the rich 
and noble could afford to d rink it, as it was literally d rinking 
money." 



44 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

" Cocoa passed current as money a mong^ all natio ns ; thus a 
rabbit in Nicaragua sold for ten Cocoa nibs, and one hundred of 
these seeds would buy a tolerably good slave." Antonio de 
Herrera, in his " History of the West Indies," writes : " They 
were wont to reckon their Cocoa by coultes, xequipiles, and loads, 
a coulte being 400 nuts, a xequipile 20 coultes, that is 8,000 nuts, 
and a load three xequipiles, being 24,000 nuts," and speaks of 
some plunder being seized by Alonzo de Ojeda from Montezuma : 
"He went thither with fifty persons, who brought away loads of 
it. The Cocoa was in wicker baskets as big as wine fats, which 
six men could not grasp, being plaistered both within and without, 
these baskets being used like bins for Indian wheat and other 
grain. Six hundred loads were taken away that night, and only 
six baskets emptied." 

Torquemada has extracted the particulars of the yearly 
expenditure of the palace from the royal account book, which 
came into Prescott's possession. 

The following are some of the items. A fanega, it may be 
explained, is about 100 pounds : — 

4,900,300 fanegas of maize. 
2,744,000 „ „ Cocoa. 

Items of the tribute furnished by different cities — 

20 Chests of ground Chocolate. 

80 Loads of red Chocolate. 

800 Xicaras — (out of which they drink Chocolate). 
200 Loads of Chocolate. 

20 Bags Gold Dust. 

20 Lip Jewels of clear amber, ornamented with gold, &c., &c. 

It may be as well to explain here that the word " Chocolate" 
IS of Mexican origin, being derived from "chocolatl." Murray, in 



^'f ^f ^^ ^^ Y^ 

^K ^// ^^ ^V/ ^/ 



7. 



'<(n-4^\> 



/^ C^*'l.<xi\0^ 



T^^^X^V 



^^<x^:r 



TL^yl \% 








From AioisTiNF. Ar.i.ios* 'ANri' 



i Mhxit 



HISTORY OK THK USK OF COCOA. 45 

hib ■■ 1 )iction;iry of tlic luiglish I..in^uagc," s.i_> ^ i.i.i mi-, li;is 
no connexion whatever with the Mexican word " cac.iuall " (or 
"ciicavaquahuitl"), "cacao," or its niodern corruption "Cocoa," 
but is, so far as is known, a railical wortl of the lanj^uaj^e. 

Thomas ( i.i<;('.iM his " New Surxcy ol the West Intiies ^ i 046 j, 
informs us, " Tlie name is compoumled from atti\ as some say, or 
as others. atU\ which in th(! Mexican language signifieth 'water,' 
and from ilie sound which the water (wli(.'rein is put the Chocolate) 
makes, as c/ioco, choco, choco, when it is stirred in a cu[> l>v an 
instrument called a 'molinet' or ' moliniiio,' until it bubble and 
rise unto a froath." 



^(^^^ 



Lh->. jlale .Stirrer (M iliiict), cjpic 1 Ir jm .ui old t.jjlc imliluhcl lo the i;tti te:Uur>". 

The siuiie writer remarks: "Our I^nglisli and llollanders 
make little use of it when they take a prize at sea, as not knowing 
the secret virtue and (juality of it for the good of the stomach, 
of whom I h.ive heard the Spaniards say that when we h.ive taken 
a good prize, a ship laden with Cocoa, in anger antl wrath we have 
hurled overboard this good commodity, not regarding the wcjrth 
of it.' lor many years the culiiv.iiion of the Cocoa tree w.is 
confmed to the Spanish, who. in South America and some of the 
West Imlia Islands, carried on the cultivation to a large extent. 
From their first settlement in Trinidatl. we are told th.it " it seems 
probable the Spaniards cultiv.ited the tree, and thoroughly under- 
stotnl its value, the prepared article being always much esteemed 
in the then opulent mother country. " 



46 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

From Spain the monks introduced the use of Chocolate 
into France, in 1661. Our earliest record of the use of Chocolate 
in England is said to be furnished by an advertisement which 
appeared in the Public Advertiser, or Adviser, according to 
one authority, of Tuesday, June 16, to Tuesday, June 22, 1657, 
informing the public that "in Bishopsgate Street, in Queen's Head 
Alley, at a Frenchman's house, is an excellent West India drink 
called Chocolate to be sold, where you may have it ready at any 
time, and also unmade at reasonable rates." 

D' Israeli, in his " Curiosities of Literature," speaking of the 
introduction of tea, coffee and chocolate into Europe, says : 
" Chocolate the Spaniards brought from Mexico, where it was 
denominated chocolatl. It was a coarse mixture of ground Cacao 
and Indian corn with rocou ; but the Spaniards, liking its nourish- 
ment, improved it into a richer compound with sugar, vanilla and 
other aromatics. We had Chocolate houses in London long after 
coffee-houses ; they seemed to have associated something more 
elegant and refined in their new term when the other had become 
common." 

Silbermann, of Strasburg, printed a book on Chocolate, in 
which he tells his readers: "After the Restoration there were 
shops in London for the sale of Chocolate at los. or 15s. per lb. 
O.Zinda's Chocolate house was full of aristocratic customers. 
Comedies, satirical essays, the memoirs and private letters of that 
age frequently mention it. The habit of using Chocolate was 
deemed a token of elegant and fashionable taste, * * * 
while the charms of this beverage in the reigns of Queen Anne 



fflSTOKV OF THK USE OF COCOA. 47 

and George I. \st ic- so highly cstccnKHl by courlic^rs, by lonh 
and ladies and fine gentlemen in the polite world, the learned 
physicians extolled its medicinal virtues. " In the "Voyage of Don 
Gonzales to I'^nghuul and Scotland," in 1733. he says: "Others 
that are not members of either House (of Parliament) are found in 
the Chocolate-Houses near the Court, or in the Park. ' 

The celebrated Tory "Chocolate House " of Queen Anne's 
reign was converted into a club, probably before 1746, and became 
the head-quarters of the Jacobite part\ . It came to be as generally 
understood that Literature had fi.xed her social head-quarters here, 
as that politics reigned supreme at " The Cocoa Tree." This 
was one of the clubs to which Lord Byron belonged, and it was at 
(iarrick's funeral that it received the name of the Literary Club. 

Cocoa was much esteemed as a beverage in this country during 
the r(;ign of Charles II., and at that period Or. Siubbe {)ublished 
a book entitled "The Indian Nectar, or a Di.scourse concerning 
Chocolate, S:c.," in which the author gives a history of that article, 
with many curious notions respecting its "secret virtue, " and recom- 
mends his readers to buy it of one Mortimer, "an honest though 
poor man, " who lived in Last Smithfield. and sold the best kind 
at 6s. S(\. per lb., and commoner sorts at about half the price. It 
was not until the close of the si.xteenth century that Cocoa or 
Chocolate was generally used in this country, and when w<' take 
into account the indifferent means for preparation ami the 
ailulterated condition of the article, we can hardly be surprised that 
it did not come into gi-neral favour with the public. 



48 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 



Prior to 1S31, the home consumption of Cocoa amounted to 
less than 400,000 lbs. per annum, but sixty years has wrought a 
marvellous change, which may best be indicated by the following 
figures : — 

CLEARANCES OF RAW COCOA FOR CONSUMPTION IN GREAT BRITAIN 

AND IREL.AND. 

Home Consumption. 
283,599 lbs. 
319,941 „ 



1822... 


523,279 lbs. 


1825... 


723,141 „ 


1830... 


976,115 „ 


1835... 


•• 1,173,795 „ 


1840... 


.. 2,041,678 „ 


1850... 


.. 3,080,647 „ 


i860... 


•• 3,230,978 „ 


1865... 


.. 4,006,345 „ 


1370... 


•■ 6,943,109 „ 


1880... 


•■ 10,566,159 „ 


1885... 


.. 14,595,168 „ 


1890... 


• ■ 20,224,175 „ 


I89I... 


.. 21,601,825 „ 


1892... 


-• 20,795,798 „ 


1893.- 


.. 20,874,995 „ 


1894... 


.. 22,440,820 „ 



393,715 



Navy. 

239,680 lbs. 

403,200 „ 
582,400 „ 



It is difficult to obtain returns of the consumption of Cocoa 
in Great Britain and Ireland prior to 1822, and a curious feature 
of those returns up to 1830 is that the home consumption and 
that of His Majesty's Navy show that the proportion absorbed by 
the Navy was larger than that for home consumption. 

Guayaquil was the largest producing country in the world, as 
it is now, its exports averaging twelve million pounds per annum 
between 1834-6; Spain at this time was the principal consuming 
country in the world, taking by far the greater proportion of these 
exports, while England depended chiefly upon its own possessions 
in the British West Indies and British Guiana. These imports 
averaged between 1833-36 1,350,000 lbs., the chief proportion 
of which came from Trinidad. 



IIISTORV OV THK USE OF COCOA. 49 

( H ihc Cocoa now imported into Fnj^lancl, close on one-third 
is cleared by the house of Cadl)ury. IJournville, an acc<nint of 
whose factory we give in another chapter. 

The consinnplion of C'ocoa \\a>. (juii(; noniin.il in the earlier 
part of the century, is. 6d. per pound being levied for duty up to 
1820, and every pounil of Chocolate had to be wraj)ped in papers 
supplied by the revenue officer ; but when we look back to the 
duties levied and regulations for s.de of an earlier date, we may 
well wonder that it survived the difficulties with which it had to 
contend. The duty since June. 1S53, has been 2i\. per lb. <>n 
all "importations of Chocolate or Cocoa-paste, " while the duty 
on raw Cocoa has been id. per lb. 

In proceedings in r.irliament. July 9th. 17S4. Mr. (iilbert 
brought up the report <>f the Committee of Ways anil Means, 
relative to Coftec and Cocoa. The report was read, viz. : "That 6d. 
per lb. be charged on all Cocoa-nuts the growth of any of the British 
Colonies. That is. 6d. be charged on the growth of any other place." 

The following enactments are likewise of interest ; — 

10 George ill., c. lo. IbuiMs «i| inaiiui.n uinii^ .11. d 
- ■'•• are to be entered on pain of forfeiting /.200 and goods, ^c. 

19 George 111. The said houses shall be marked over 
the doors with the words ' dealer in Cocoa-nuts, Chocolate. &c.. 
on pain of /^200. Any dealer buying these commodities of any 
person not having his shop so marked shall f<»rfeil /^loo 



50 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

He shall also produce at the place and time of entry the 
Chocolate, which shall be tied up with thread in papers of i lb., 
yi lb., or y^ lb. each, and neither more nor less, which shall be 
stamped or marked by the officers. 

10 George I., c. lo. The counterfeiting of the stamp, or 
the knowingly selling of any Chocolate, or the fixing of any paper 
with a stamp on such Chocolate as has not been entered, and on 
which the duties have not been paid, means the penalty of ^500, 
and of commitment to the next county gaol for twelve months. 
Officers shall enter at all hours by day warehouses, shops, &c., the 
owner assisting to weigh, &c. 

11 George I., c. 30, sec. 9. Every person who shall keep a 
shop and have in his custody above 6 lb. Cocoa or Chocolate 
shall be deemed a dealer in the said commodity. 

II George I., c. 30. Notice shall be given by those who 
make Chocolate for private families, and not for sale, three days 
before it is begun to be made, specifying the quantity, &c., and 
within three days after it is finished, the person for whom it is 
made shall enter the whole quantity on oath, and have it duly 
stamped. 

20 George III., c. 35. No person shall trade in Chocolate 
without an annual license, for which he shall pay (by 
Geo. III., c. 69) 5s. 6d., under penalty of ^20 

43 George III., c. 69, Schedule A. The duty imposed for 
every pound weight of Cocoa, the growth or produce of any British 
colony or plantation, was is. lod., but if imported by the East 



HISTORY oi Tin: use of cocoa. 51 

India Company, 2s., antl (nr all other Cocoa-nuts imported into Orciit 
Britain, 3s. No Chocolate ready matlc. or Cocoa paste, shall Ixi 
imported on pain of forfeiting the same antl double value, and 
also the bags, casks and other package.* 

Till! history <»t iIk- use ot Cocna lias now been lrac(Ml from its 
first iliscovery by Columbus in 1494 to ih*,- present time. The 
gradual development of systematic means of planting, gnjwing and 
curing the Cocoa bean, the greater facilities for export, the vastly 
improved methods of preparation with powerful and scientifically 
arranged machinery, lower duties, and stricter laws against adultera- 
tion, are all aiding It) raise it in public estimation, so that 
notwithstanding all the [)rejudices, superstitions and difficulties 
that have had to be overcome, Cocoa is fast becoming a 
formidable rival to tea and coffee as a beverage. 

♦ R/\TES OF DUTY OX COCO.A. 

EXCISE. Cl'STOMS. 

llrilLsh Po<oes»ion». Foreign Countries. On Entrj- for Home Consumptioo. 

181S1 IS. lod. per lb. ... 3s. od. per lb. ... from 2 Sd. to 4 V fl- per lb. 

lg,,j IS. od. per lb. ... 2s. 6d. per lb. ... no Customs from 1S20. 
Excise duties were transferred to Customs from 5th .April, 1S25. 

Itrili*h Po»»c»Nion» within 
Drilikh Po«C3Aiont in America. the Limit of the F!..-l%i India Forcii;n Couniriev 

Comiwin>'> Charter. 

1826, to 4th July, 6d. per lb i^tl. per lb. is. 3d. per lb. 

iSy., from 5th \ .,1 p^r n, (;tl. per lb is. 3d. per lb. 

July to 183! ' 

i(riti>h P.>**e*viinN, Korri^jn. 

1832 2d. j)cr lb. r.d. fxr lb. 

1844 id. per lb. 4d. per lb. 

'^;|5 1 111. per lb. 2d. and 5 per cent, per lb. 

1853, liritish and P'oreign iil. jK;r lb., to the year 1894. 



CHAPTER III. 



MANUFACTURE. 

"The giddy motion of the whirHng mill 
In fumes of burning Chocolate shall glow 
And tremble at the sea that froths below." 

Pope 




I 



'F Pope was 
slightly misty 
in his ideas of 
themanufactureof Choco- 
late, there is less excuse 
for those who pretend to teach 
the present generation. For 
example, the lady who pre- 
pared "The Child's Guide to 
Knowledge" (1879), questions 
her pupils, thus : 
What is chocolate ? 
A kind of cake or hard paste 
which is made of the pulp of the Cocoa or Chocolate 
seed, gently roasted, and mixed with sugar, &c. 
" Q. How is it formed into paste and cakes ? 
"A. By the help of water, and whilst hot, is put 
into tin moulds." 



"Q. 
"A. 



MANUFACTURE. 53 

The tlcvclopniciU of «)iir ni.iiuifaclurcs is an iiUcrcslin;^ study, 
for \vc arc a|)t lo forj^cl, in this aj^t- of luxuries, the years of toil and 
thought that it has taken in lurfect them. 

We have to look hack to the ori^^inal home of the Cocoa plant 
for our first i^limpses of its j)rcj)ar.ition as food, and to thr time 
of our early travellers for its introduction into Hurope. 

Daniel Concuna writes <jn "The Orij^in of Chocolate in the 
Intlies. and its Introduction into Kurope," X'enice, 174S (translate-d 
from the Itali.ui) : " The .i^dory of so pleasant a discovery beloni^^s to 
the province of Chiapa ; its history, however, dtx^s not tell us the 
year of the invention, hut from what can be i^^athered from various 
authors, it took place about the middle of the i6th century. " 

The usual r«)U).,^h-and-ready plan of manufacture in those 
early days is described by Mr. Hui^^hes in the Afficrican Physician 
(1672) : " In Jamaica there is a sort of Chocolate made up of only 
the jxiste of the Cacao itself, in rowls or lumps of a |>>und or two, 
the better for keepint^ i^^ood. And it may be had here in Enj^land. 
neat and }.jood, of merchants and seamen that travel to those |xirts 
and brin;4 it over." 

The minle of {)reparation was as follows : — 

" I'or this purj)ose tlu-y have a broad, smooth stone, well 
|X)lished or j^lazed, very hard, and beinj^ made tit in all res|K'Cls 
for their use, they i^^rinde the Cacaos thereon very small, and when 
they have so done, they have another broad stone natly, nn.li r 
which they keep a j^entle fire. 

"A more speedy way for the makinv; uj) «>f the Cacao into 
Chocolate is this : They have a mill mad(.' in the form of some 
kinde of mault-mills, whose stones arc firm and hard, which w«>rk 



54 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 



by turning, and upon this mill are ground the Cacaos grossly, and 
then between other stones they work that which is ground yet 
smaller ; or else, by beating it up in a mortar, bring it into the 
usual form." 




Ancient Metlatl or Grinding Stone. (Squiei's " Nicaragua.'') 







Grecques with which ahove is ornamented. (Squier's " Nicaragua. ') 

We can form some idea of how Cocoa was prepared and 
ground on these stones by the old engravings here reproduced ; 
the first taken from Squier's "Nicaragua;" the second showing 
us practically the same process of grinding Cocoa as that 
adopted by the Portuguese on its first introduction into Europe. 



MANUKACTLRK 



55 



Tlu! iiu.-iIkhIs will sirikc llu- n-.uli ; ... .cry priinilix c aiul 
in»t very cK'.inly. hut thf natives no tloiiht made the lu-sl of ihtir 
means to prevent the ilclicate j)reparati<)n mini^linj^ with mother 
eirth. 

The followiiii; cnp^raxiiiL; is taken from an okl book eniilK (.1 

" Le Hon Usai^e Du The. I)u Caffe. et l)u Choctilat j;our la 

IVeservation et pour la Giierison des Maladies, par Monsieur de 

Hlei^iiy. Conseiller, Medeciii. Artiste ordinaire du Roy, a 

Lyon. 16S7 " : — 




K. HrouKes, M [)., 1730, in ins ■ Natural History of 
Chocolate," tells us: ''There iirc also imjK)rted from America 



i: 2 



56 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

Cocao- Kernel-Cakes of about a pound weight each. * * * 
The Indians, from whom we borrow it, are not very nice in doing 
it ; tliey roast the kernels in earthen pots, then free them from 
their skins, and afterwards crush and i^rind them between two 
stones, and so form cakes of it with their hands" ; and further on, in 
speaking of the Spaniards' mode of preparation, says : " They 
put them (the kernels) into a large mortar to reduce them to a 
gross powder, which they afterwards grind upon a stone. They 
make choice of a stone which naturally resists the fire * * # 
rom 16 to 18 inches broad, and about 27 or 30 long and 3 in 
thickness, and hollowed in the middle about i inch and a half 
deep. * * * Under they place a pan of coals to heat the 
stone so that the heat * * * makes it easy for the iron 
roller to make it so fine as to leave neither lump nor the least 
hardness."' 

Willoughby, in his "Travels in Spain" (1664), writes : " They 
first toast the berries to get off the husk, then pound the kernels 
to powder, and to every 2,/- lbs. of powder they add 2 lbs. sugar, 
1 2 Vanillos, a little Guiny pepper (which is used by the Spaniards 
only), and a little Acchiote to give a colour. They melt the sugar, 
iuid then mingle all together, and work it up either in rolls or 
leaves." Another writer says : " The usual proportion at Madrid to 
a hundred kernels of Cocoa, to add two grains of Chile pepper, 
a handful of anise, as many flowers — called by the natives 
vinacaxtlides or little ears — six white roses in powder, a pod of 
campeche, two drachms of cinnamon, a dozen almonds, and as 
many hazel-nuts, with achiotte enough to give it a reddish tincture ; 
the sugar and vanilla are mixed at discretion, as also the musk 
and ambergris. They frequently work this paste with orange 
water, which they think gives it a greater consistence and 
iirmness." 




2i 
— < 
z - 






MANUFACTURE. 57 

III a (juarlo published for Christopher Wilkinson at the Mlack 
Hoy, over against St. Dunstan's Church, in IK-ct Sir»:«l, 
on " tliir Xatural liisiory of Chocolate-," it is stated: "The 
iiiLjrcdicnts may be varied according to the constitutions ()( those 
th.it drink it ; in cold constitutions Jamaica pepper, cinnamon, 
nuimei^s. cloves, (!?s:c.. may be mixed with the cocoa-nut ; some add 
musk and odoriferous aromatick oils. In hot consumptive tem|K.Ts 
you ma\ mix almonds, pistachios, &c., sometimes china and 
arsa ; and sometimes steel and rhubarb may be added for young 
green ladies." 

Spain and Portugal were the first countries to introduce the 
native process of manufacture into Kuro[)e, which was naturally 
very rough, antl consequently produced very poor results, but to 
France belongs the credit of developing a better system of 
roasting, grinding, and mixing Cocoa for the manufacture of 
Chocolate. Under the improved method the Chocolate was 
moulded into hard cakes or tablets, which was the only form in 
which Cocoa was known for many years. Germany, at the 
present time. j)roduces machinery on the most approved and 
scientific principles, and I--nglish manufacturers have lost no time 
in ap|)lying them to satisfy the demand for the highest class of 
Cocoa and Chocolate. 

I'or the modern system of manufacture we cannot do belter 
than transi)ort our readers to Hournville, " the Worcestershire 
lulen " as it has l)een aptly termed, for the surroundings of the 
place have a charm of their own that banishes the thought of 
smoke and machinery, and gives quite a zest for the inspection of 
this hai)py and busy scene of lalx)ur. I^ournville is cerlaii 



58 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

model factory, both for its size and its completeness, and because 
it contains the most modern improvements in the application of 
machinery for the manufacture of Cocoa and Chocolate. 

Five tall chimneys, and some acres of warehouses and 
workshops, divided by streets connected by bridges, and 
intersected by railway lines, give some idea of the extent of the 
works, but for all this our first impression on being taken through 
the porter's lodge is that of entering into a garden with a 
welcome of the sweet breath of flowers and the song of birds. 
We have to pass by the girls garden and play-ground, which is well 
planted and bordered on three sides by trees and shrubs, while the 
plantations of Bournbrook Hall give the substantially country 
surroundings to which we have referred. One of the sights of 
Bournville is the girls in their white costumes, after dinner, sitting 
reading under the trees, or enjoying in other ways a breath of fresh 
air. 

The name " Bournville ' was susfaested bv the contio-uitv of 
the pretty streamlet known as the " Bourn." which meanders 
through the estate and forms the northern boundary of the factory. 
This rippling rivulet adds to the attractiveness of the locality, and 
is regarded with no little satisfaction by the disciples of Izaak 
Walton, who recognise in the pretty trout streani qualities 
which serve to gladden the heart of the angler. Among those 
engaged at the works are lovers of the enthralling pastime, and 
we were informed that recently trout of very respectable dimensions 
had been landed from the Bourn, 

On ground contiguous to the factory, and bordering on the 
road which runs on the southern side of the works, Messrs. 
Cadbury have built a number of semi-detached villa residences. 



MANUFACTl'RF. 59 

which arc inhabitctl hy tlicir niti-.i j-i. »ininciU hands — workmen 
who have shown by their gencr.il demeanour such dihgencc 
and assiduity in business as make them worthy the consideration 
their employers ha\e evinced for their interests. These villas 
are model residences, let at a comparatively small rental ; they 
are well built of brick, in two colours, fitted internally with 
taste, and e.ich would easily bring a rent of ^^40 per annum in the 
suburbs of the metropolis The occupants of these residences 
pay 5s. to 6s. per week To each house is apportioned a front 
and back garden, and the tenants are enabled to grow their 
own vegetables and fruit, and decorate the front parterres with 
flowers. 

Like many of our largest manufacturers, Messrs. Cadbury 
commenced business with a very small staff of workpeople 
c<jmpared with the number of hands at present employed 
by them. About thirty years ago under twenty employes 
comprised the working establishment, while now they employ 
about 2,000 men, boys and girls. 

Owing to the compar.itivcly isolated position of the works, 
ample provision has to be made for all requirements .is regards 
cooking. Spacious dining rooms have Ix'cn provided on the 
premises for both men and women. Gas stoves and cooking 
apparatus have been erecletl. and hot dinners can be procured 
in a ver)' few minutes. .So complete are the arranijements in 
this resj)cct that there is little delay in serving all from the 
kitchen, which is constructed between the men's and women's 
dining rooms, which are kept quite distinct. These surroundings 
have an importance beyond the comfort of the employes, for «n 



6o COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

the production of food it is impossible to devote too much 
attention to the health of those employed, and to every agent 
that promotes tidiness and cleanliness. 

The manufacture of Cocoa and Chocolate requires great 
experience, skill, and special knowledge. In detailing the pro- 
cesses it will be convenient to divide them into two branches, viz. : 
the production of Cocoa Essence and the manufacture of Sweet 
Chocolate. 

Cocoa Essence, which is the specialty of this firm, is unrivalled 
as a nutritive beverage, and therefore the most important for con- 
sideration. The best Cocoa contains about 50 per cent, of natural 
oil or butter, and this has been found to be far too large a pro- 
portion for ordinar)^ digestions. Dr. ?^Iuter remarks that "the 
only objection which can and does exist to its use in a state of 
purity is the excessive proportion of fat, which renders it too rich 
for most digestions, and gives, unfortunately, a colourable excuse 
for its adulteration." 

By means of elaborate machinery the removal of two-thirds 
of the butter is accomplished, the result being an impalpable 
powder easily miscible in boiling water. 

As the visitor leaves the office of the principals and enters the 
factory, the fragrance of the Cocoa-berry salutes the olfactories 
most agreeably. The hum of machinery denotes that the hands 
are busily engaged, and as we pass into the factory an earnestness 
of purpose is manifested by the work-people, who are intent upon 
their --arious pursuits. The utmost order and regularity are pre 



MANUFACTURE. Ol 

served in ail llic (.kp.irlinciUs, aiul every employe appears to 
dischari^c his or her duly with that ease and readiiurss whicli is 
the rcsiili of experience and training'. 

The Cocoa arrives in sacks weii^hinL;' from one lo ium cwt.. 
and as it varies considerably in kind and quality it has to be 
stacked in laru^(.' piles, ready to underu^o the first process of siftinj^ 
and picking', so that no unsound berry or any foreij^n material is 
passed into the roastinLj room. The sieves used for this process 
are lon:^ barrels on a slit^ht incline, which slowly revolve and sort 
the nuts into various sizes, whik: at the same time removini^j 
dust or smaller matter that may come wit i them. Hy an automatic 
process the nuts are carried into the hoppers of the roasters, 
which are each capable of roastini^ one ton at a lime. These 
rotate slowK. and the roasting is done by hiL;h-j)rcssure steam, 
which is much cleaner and more economical than the old-fashioned 
plan of roasting by coke or gas. 

So important is this process thai very careful attention is 
necessary, and e.xperienced workmen, whose judgment is almost 
un<'rring. are entrusted to superintend it. It is requisite for those 
who have charge of this de[)arlment to determine the precise 
periotl at which the nuts are sufficiently roasted, for the quality 
and rich aromatic flavour of the Cocoa depends greatly upon this. 
A miscalculation in time wouUl tend to spoil the Cocoa, but 
mishai)s rarely happen, and so jiraclised are the hands resp<Misible 
for the n)asting that the work is. as a rule, admirably done, and 
the flavour of tht: nut is invariably preserveil. After being passed 
through a cooling chamber, the fresh air s|X!edily reduces the 
temixrature, when the nuts are ready to be what is technically 



62 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

termed " broken down." The now crisp roasted nuts travel 
on to a hopper and are afterwards raised by an elevator, and 
passed through a machine which gently cracks them, dis- 
engaging the hard thin skin, which by this means can be 
separated from the nutritive portion of the nut, viz., the rich glossy 
kernel, known in the market as Cocoa-nibs. The separation is 
effected by a winnowing machine. From the outlet of the crack- 
ing machine the husk and nut are carried to a point over the 
winnower, and as the cracked nuts fall, the powerful blast of this 
machine blows away the husks, and the latter fall into 
a receptacle in the form of nibs, which are afterwards sorted by 
a diviseur. The husk or shell is sent off to Ireland and else- 
where to be used as a light, but by no means unpalatable, table 
decoction, under the designation of " miserables." In the year 
1770 a law was enacted that "Cocoa-nut shells or husks may 
be seized and destroyed ; and the officer who seizes them 
rewarded with any sum not exceeding 20s. per cwt." 

The mill room, into which we now pass, is a very spacious 
and well-arranged apartment, in which numerous machines are 
employed in the manufacture of Cocoa and Chocolate, the most 
approved modern mechanical appliances having been introduced. 
In this room three long lines of millstones are at work crushing 
the nibs, which are fed into a hopper, whence they pass 
between granite millstones. The nibs are hard and brittle before 
being crushed, but after a few minutes' grinding, the oil they 
contain is disengaged by the heat, and it flows from the stones 
as a creamy fluid, but when cold solidifies into a hard, brittle cake. 
From this fluid the Cocoa-butter is extracted by means of a 



MANUFACTLRK. 63 

certain process — a s|)ccialliy of the firm — and the suljsiancc is 
left |x:rfccily ilry. This is s|x,'edily reduced to an impalpabh: 
|X)\vder, and the well-known and absolutely pure Cocoii Essence, 
for which the firm is so celebrated, is complete. 

Many millions of mill-board Ixjxes, to contain the Cocoa 
Essence, h.ive to be made yearly, ami it may therefore Ix; reailily 
supjx)sed that the box-makinj^ dej);irtnunt is one of considerable 
imj)ortance. The demand Ix-'inj^ so enormous, the firm em{)loy 
elaborately-constructed machinery to meet their requirements. 
One machine cuts the board into the retjuired shape, while 
another i^lues the parts toj^ether and j)erfects the j)acket-shell, the 
output averai^ins^ about 5.ooodaily from each of the seven machines. 
They work with perfect rej^ularily. antl demonstrate the state of 
perfection to which labour-siivini( inventions have been brou<^ht. 
The boxes are removed by means of a hollow baiul. and forwarded 
to the packini^-room, where numbers of busy hands are fillinj^, 
wrappinl^^ ami labcllini^^ the jiackets. 

We now come to the second branch of manufacture, wiiun is 
of considerable commercial imi)ortance. and very extensive. 
Sweet Chocolate, fnr eatin;^ and drinkinj^s forms the most 
delicious of all confections or beveraj^es, and C(Koa pre|>;ired in 
this w.iy is another of the sjxrcialties of the firm. T ■ il.' 
manufacture of the numerous varieties this last secti<.»n of the 
factory is devoted. The pure Coccxi is. in the first place, incor|x>- 
nited with white su;;ar in what is called a " Melani^eur." This 
mixin;^ machine consists of a round, i^ranite, revolvinv; slab, form- 
in;^ a jxin, the sides beinjj of steel. Into this receptacle the C<Koa 
and su;^ar are poured, and two sets of heavy, stationar)*, j^^ninitc 



64 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

rollers bruise the thick mass, which is reduced to the consistency 
of douijh. A double knife, the action of which is similar to that of 
a screw-propeller, continually revolves just above the rotary stone 
slab, and distributes the Chocolate as it passes. There are 
several of these machines at work, and our attention is 
particularly directed to one of an improved design and great 
magnitude, which mixes and grinds the Chocolate, and then 
automatically passes it on to heavy, granite cylinders, which 
systematically and gradually reduce the Chocolate to a given 
degree of fineness, the operation being effected with remarkable 
exactitude. 

The "Mexican" Chocolate made by the firm has been 
compared to the famous Chocolate that Prescott describes as 
forming part of Montezuma's repast — " In golden goblets 
flavoured with vanilla, and so prepared as to be reduced to a froth 
of the consistency of honey, which gradually dissolved in the 
mouth." 

In this establishment the charm said to be inseparable from 
variety is not lacking. The creme moulding-room presents a 
scene that is unlike any previously witnessed. The work upon 
which the young women in this room are engaged is of 
a delicate and light description, particularly suitable for female 
hands. In this portion of the factory the delicious Chocolate 
creams, which we need not describe because they are so well known, 
are poured rapidly into moulds of various patterns and designs, 
into which the workers dexterously pour the liquid cream, 
each hole absorbing the allotted quantity. The young women 
engaged in this work are remarkably expert and skilful, as they 



MANUFArTl'RK. 65 

in.iiia;^^ to fill each inoulcl wiili jusi sufficient of the cream ami no 
more, thereby preventiii;^ waste of time, if not of material. The 
creams soon solidify, and when cool they are extracted from lh(! 
moulds, antl .ue taken to another department and coatetl with 
Chocolate. 

rile room wiiicii we next enl^r is Ncry extensive and 
commodious, beinjr 240 feet lon^,^ by 60 feet wide. ICvery 
business convenience is afforded in this noble workroom, and the 
younj^ women, with ample space at tlieir command, suffer under 
none of those disabilities which invariably arise when the area is 
insufficient and the apartment is " cribb'd, cabin'd, and confin'd." 
A larj^e number of youni; women are enj^^aj^ed in this and other 
rooms, of slightly less proporticMis, boxing;", labellin_l^^ and makini^ 
fancy boxes to contain Chocolate creams and numerous confections 
composed of the delicious preparations so well known and hit^^hly 
appreciated. 

Not only is it essential that the sense of taste should be 
•gratified by the manufacture of t<x)lhsome compoumls. but the eye 
must be pleased. Many varieties of fancy boxes matle in these 
rooms are admirable examples of art workmanship. The desii^ns 
and pictures on .some of the best packai^es are chaste and ele_i,^ant, 
while in the vast assortment of decorative embellishments every 
taste and fancy may Im; gratified. At Christmastide boxes and 
creams are in universal request. Passing around this department 
an interesting and diversified scene presents itself N'oung women 
are busy at work at their tables or counters, .some being engaged 
in cutting out and stamping the cardboard, and others in fitting 
the boxes together on blocks, wrapping the edges with gold or 



66 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

gelatine paper, and fixing on the top those pictorial, artistic gems 
which are so attractive. Many others are employed ornamenting 
and finishing, with exceedingly good taste and evident skill, the 
different sorts of boxes required for the various goods manufactured 
at the works. The hands have ample material at their disposal to 
render their work effective, and every novelty likely to please the 
public is promptly introduced. Some of the latest and most artistic 
ornamentations well deserve a frame. 

In other rooms numerous mechanical appliances are used for 
cutting cardboard, paper, etc., and the number of fancy boxes 
turned out weekly is enormous. In another part of this section 
young women are busy packing creams in boxes, and wrapping 
Chocolate cakes in tinfoil and papers of various colours. Many 
thousands of completely-finished boxes and packets of every descrip- 
tion containing Chocolate creams, plain Chocolates, and in fact, 
almost every variety of the firm's manufacture, including the 
specialties already mentioned, are ready for packing and transit 
to all parts of the world, to supply the home, foreign and colonial 
markets. 

The saw-mills and wood box-making department are distinct 
portions of the establishment, and the visitor, on entering these 
extensive workshops, would imagine that another industry, entirely 
removed from the manufacture of Cocoa and Chocolate, was being 
pursued. In this building there is a buzz and whirl, caused by the 
circular saws" by which spruce planks are reduced to the required 
length and thickness for box-making, and most efficient planing 
machines render the surface of the wood as smooth as o-lass. 
The boards are transferred by a lift across the road to larger 



MANUFACTURE. 67 

premises, where a number of hands art: emjjloyeil lo nail the pieces 
lt)i;ether by ingeniously-contrived machines, which punch in three 
nails by one process, and through the remarkable activity of the 
workers, a box is nailed toj^ether almost before you can see how it 
is done. 

The tinman's shoj) is ne.\t in rotation. Ingenious to(jls and 
appliances of modern desi<4n and construction have been intro- 
duced, and the tinwork, which is consider.djle in so vast an 
establishment, is executed with skill and despatch by first-class 
workmen. Many thousands of tin boxes for j)acking the Cocoa 
Essence are turned out every day, moulds for the Chocolates 
are made and stamped, with zinc linini^s for export cases, etc. ; also 
i^eneral repairs incidental to the works, which come within the 
province of the tin-worker, are done in this department, which is 
fitted with every requisite contrivance for economising labour and 
securini^ satisfactory results. 

We may state here that the most excellent system of payment 
is adopted, "by results." At this factory almost all the employes are 
enj^ai^ed in what is known as piece-work, which is satisfactory 
alike to the firm and to tlK.> hands. The system has, we under- 
stand, worketl well, .md the work-j)eoj)lr. both m.ile and temale, 
are well satisfied with the m.uiner in which they are treated, and 
wc were i^ratified to be assured more than once hc^w fortunate it 
was deemed to be employed at Hournville. This i^ood feeling 
between employers and employed is of almost inestimable value, 
both socially and commercially. 



68 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 



It would be foreign to our purpose to describe fully all the 
interesting details of such an establishment, but we may remark in 
closing, that if all manufacturers would make the interests and 
happiness of their employes a part of their business it would add 
to their prosperity, and do something to solve the important 
problem of labour by cementing the friendship of masters and 
work-people. 



CIlAPri'.R i\- 



\ALLi: Ol- COCOA AS TOOD, AND ITS ADUI/IKRAl IONS. 

"Tis not enough to help the feeble up, 
Hut to support him after." 

TiMON ()|- A I III- NX - l.f /. \. .«,• / 




I 



and 



X a passage from one 
of I'Voudc's charming 
" Short Studies," he 
says : "Observe the practical 
issueof reh'gious C( )rriiption. 
Show me a people whose 
trade is dishonest, and I will 
show you a people whose 
religion is a sham." " We 
ha\ e men that steal money," I>asmus 
exclaimed, writing doubtless with 
the remembrance of a stomach-ache. 
"These wretches steal our money 
and our lives too, and get off scot- 
free." 

Keen observers of the national 
progress cannot have failed to notice the 
growing interest taken in all cjuestions 
relating to the three essentials conducive to 
health and longevity, viz.. wholesome food, pure 
water, and fresh air. In these progressive times 
there is a spirit of inquiry and investigation manifested, 
the consumer is no longer content to take things as they 



70 COCOA : ALL AIJOUT IT. 

are, but, on the contrary, being of an " inquiring mind," is 
desirous to ascertain, for his own satisfaction and benefit, "What 
to eat, drink, and avoid." It is well known that adulteration 
was. in past days, carried on to a very considerable extent, 
and although very much has been done to mitigate the evil, 
" the sellinof of an inferior or debased substance under the 
name of a superior or genuine article" still continues, both as 
regards food and drink. In a Statute, lo George III., c lo, 
it is enacted that, "If any article made to resemble cocoa shall be 
found in the possession of any dealer, under the name of American 
Cocoa or English Cocoa, or any other name of Cocoa, it shall be 
forfeited and the dealer shall forfeit ;^ioo." 

So far back as 1640, in " A curious Treatise of the Nature and 
Quality of Chocolate," by Antonio Colmenero, which was 
translated from the Spanish into English, there are some 
remarkable statements as to the value of chocolate, but the writer 
recognises the mischief that adulteration had already done. He 
says: "Those who mix Maize in the Chocolate, do very ill; 
because these grains do beget a very melancholy humour ; and 
those which mix it in this confection, do it only for their profit ;" 
but over thirty years later (i67i)Ogelby tells us : "The Spaniards, 
to make Chocolate, mix Maize either whole or ground." Maize 
constituted the principal diet of the Indian races of South America, 
and the interesting engraving, taken from De Dry's History, 
intimates that they flourished upon it. 

The Analytical Sanitary Commission, published in the Lancet 
in 1 85 1, reports upon samples of 68 different kinds of Cocoa, 
bearing a variety of names. Although 56 of the samples were called 




Inimans Eatim; Ii<iii.Kii Grains of Maizk. 
Df. Hkv's "Amkkica." Frankfort: lioo 



COCOA AS lOuD. ITS AI tLLTKRATIONS. 7 I 

*• Cocoa," aiul not Chocolate, there were only eight samples free 
from adulteration. This adulteralinn aiiiounted to 65 percent, in 
some of the "Soluble Cocoas," and in one of the most extensive 
manufactures in I'ngland th(! (juaniity of I'otato .Starch came to 
50 per cent, of the article, without reckoning the dose of sugar. It 
was found by the Analytical Commission that the majority of the 
68 samples were coloured with mineral or earthy pigments. 
Specimens, indeed, of Cocoa thus treated with red lead are exposed 
in the Museum at South Kensington, under the authority of the 
British Government. 

It is refreshing to record that in the early days of Cocoa 
drinking in England, Churchman's Chocolate obtained a name 
and fame for being a pure preparation of Cocoa. Churchman 
obtained Letters Patent for his "new invention, which is now sold 
at 4s. 9d. per lb. X.H. — The curious may be supjilied with his 
superfine Chocolate, that exceeds the finest sold by other makers, 
plain at 6s., with vanillos at 7s. To be sold for ready money only 
at Mr. Churchman's Chocolate warehouse, at Mr. John Young's, in 
.St. Paul's Churchyard, London, a.d. 1732." 

•All foods are classified under two types (»r divisions — namely, 
the nitrogenous, or tissue-forming, and the calorificent, or heat- 
creating. By the term "nitrogenous" is meant all foods, whether 
derived from the animal orveget.ible kingtlom, which contain nitrogen 
as one of the elements of their composition, in adtliiion to carlxjn, 
hydrogen and oxygen. These Unxh are also called tissue-formers, 
and the measure of their llcsh-forming value is the quantity of 
nitrogen they contain. The rea.son of this is found in the fact 
that all the tissues of the body, fat excepted, contain nitrogen, and 
those wherein the nutritive changes are most active, such iis 
muscle and nerve, contain the largest amount of nitrogen. 

1 J 



72 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 



The following table of the Chemical constituents of Cocoa 
was given in a paper read before the Society of Arts, by John 
Holm, F.R.G.S., in 1S74, and contains all analyses of any im- 
portance made up to that time : — 



ANALYSES Of^ COCOA. 



Fat (Cocoa Butter) 

/"Albuminoid Substances 

I Albumin 

I Fibiin ... 

I Gluten ... 
E.xtractive Matter 
Sugar 
Starch 
Gum 

TLignine... 
-! Cellulose 

I. Woody Fibre . 
Colouring Matter 
Water 

Theobromine 
Salts 
Ash 

{Humic Acid 
Parts unaccounted for 



Total 



53' 10 
1870 



io"9i 

775 
o"90 



2 '01 

5-20 



I '43 



52-00 



traces 

io"oo 

2"oo 

4*oo 



51-00 



5-00 
2-00 



lOQ-OC ICO'OO lOO'OD 



50-C0 



7-00 
6-00 



4 -co 

2'00 
500 
2 'CO 
4-00 



56-00 
17-00 





j= 




























































S 




45 


CO 49 


00 


13 


00 18 


00 



r lu c 



;-22-co 



I '50 



3 "5° 



o'6o 
i4'oo 

6 -08 

3 "05 
5-06 
I -02 

3 "05 
9-14 



1 8 -co 



5-00 
6-30 



100-00 ioo"oo 100 00 



42-67 


50 'OO 




J-18-00 


12-21 




19-03 


10 -co 


6-40 


8 00 


5-95 




3 '96 


2-60 


5-98 


6 00 


090 


1-50 


2-90 


3 '60 




0-30 


100 -oo 


100 'OO 



The active principle of Cocoa is Theobromine, of which 
active principle we find, according to Drs. Playfair and Lankester — 



Tea contains 
Coffee „ 
Cocoa 



3 per cent. Theine. 
i^{ ,, Caftein. 
2 ,, Theobromine. 



COCOA AS FOOD. — ITS ADULTKUATIONS. 73 

Cocoa also contains a volatile oil, which gives its delicious 
an una, and, no doubt, essentially adds to its refreshing and 
<'.\h ilar.it iiiL]^ character as a beverage. 

Mr. I li)hn makes the following observations : — 

*' It is a table which is not very flattering to chemical science, 
the analyses being of the most contradictory character, and 
containing discrepancies which cannot be at all reconciled with 
each other. I should judge that the analysis prepared by I)rs. 
Play fair and Lankester is the most correct." We thus see that, 
taking the important constituents, Cocoa contains : — 

V.xns. 

Coco.! Huttcr ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 

.■\lbuminoiil substances ... ... ... ... ... 20 

.Starch, .Sugar, &c. ... ... ... ... ... ... 13 

Salts 4 

Theobromine ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 

Other constituents ... ... 11 

100 

Taking these in the order of their imjjortance, we first notice 
the fat, or Cocoa-butter, forms about half the substance of the nibs. 
It is a hard, fatty substance, and wlun clarified, is of a j)ale 
yellow colour. Its melting point is about 100" I*"ah., which being 
the heat of the body, rentiers it of great value for therapeutical 
purposes. The fat only becomes rancid when sul)jected to heat 
or light, and especially to ilu* direct ra\s of the sun. It is hardly 
necessary to point out how valuable this (juality renders this 
portion of the bean for surgical and other purposes. The 
albuminoid constituents form about 20 j)er cent, of the nib. 
Thc-se are classed amongst the nitrogenous principles of food, 
and their presence renders Cocoa one of the richest Hosh-formers 



74 COCOA : ALL Ar.OUT IT. 

we have. The starch, gum and sugar present, hke the Cocoa- 
butter, belong to non-azotised principles ; they form about 13 
per cent, of the whole. The alk;iloid of Cocoa, theobromine, is 
very similar in its physiological effects to its analogues, theme and 
codeine, from which it differs very slightly in chemical composition. 

ESSENTIAL ALKALOID PRINCIPLES. 



Yielded by 


Name. 


Composition. 


Proportion. 


Cocoa 

Coffee 

Tea 

* Guarana 


Theobromine 
Caffeine 
Th^ine 
Guaranine 


1 


Ct H8 X4 0,. 

All Identical 
Cb Hio N4 Oi 


2 per cent. 
\ I to 7 per cent. 
In less quantities 


t Mat6 









* Guarana. " An astringent species of Chocolate prepared from the fruit of the Paullinia Sorbilis." 
+ Mat^. " Mat^- or Paraguay tea, obtained from the Ilex Paraguayensis." — Miller's Chemistry. 

In regard to these alkaloids it is interesting to note that 
throughout the world the instinct of man has led him to seek 
some substance which contains one of these principles, which owe 
their value to the specific influence they exert on the nervous 
system, stimulating it and checking waste of tissue. Theobromine, 
when extracted, presents the form of a white crystalline powder, 
and differing from caffeine and thcine, which have a very beautiful 
crystalline appearance. 

Nearly nine-tenths of the Cocoa bean is composed of matter 
that is assimilated by the digestive organs ; while with Tea and 
Coffee more than one-half is thrown away as waste product. 
The proportions of woody fibre are as follows : — 

Tea ... ... ... ... ... ... 20 per cent. Woody Fibre. 

Cofifee 35 „ „ 

Cocoa... ... ... ... ... ... 4 ,, „ 



COCOA AS lOOD, ITS ADII.TI'.KATIOXS. 75 

Cocoa is saiil to yickl ihirlccii limes tin- mitriinriU ot lea 
for the siimc value, aiul four-aiul-a-half limes as much m*^ (',,((>-,■ 

Hrillat-Savarin. the author of the " I'hysioloj^ie ilii (*<»ui.' 
remarks: " The persons who hal>iluaily take Chocolate are those 
who enjoy the most equable and constant health, and are least 
liable to a mullilude of illnesses which spoil the enjoyment of life." 

Mr. (). L. Symonds. in his work on the Commercial Protlucts 
of the Vegetable Kingtlom, says : " Cocoa is of domestic drinks the 
most alimentary ; it is without any exception the cheapest fcvxl 
that we can conceive, as it may be literally termed meat and drink, 
and were our half-starved artizans and over-worked factory children 
induced to drink it, instead of ihe innutritions beverage called tea. 
its nutritive qualities would soon develop themselves in their 
improved looks and more robust condition." The heads of the 
Xaval and Military Departments in I'^ngland have been so 
impressed with the superior nutritive properties of Cocoa that it 
is served out twice or three times a week to regiments of the line, 
and daily to the seamen on board 1 Irr Majesty's ships. 

The importance of these facts in conneclion with the use 
of Cocoa will at once be api)arent when we compare the analysis 
of Cocoa nibs, which contain all the natural butter, with Cocoa 
essence, from which about two-thirds has been removed. It is 
also interesting to note th.ii Cocoa compares very favourably 
with pure, dried milk : — 



I)r. Johnson « AnnlvMi^ ,, . .in .» 1/^ . / 

' I I)tir«l Milk 35 I Out of 

Cocoa 1 v*V T - 

„ . . • >*^ I loo tuns. 

licit r n : ... ». I I J ' 



K\c\h Formrn. 

'cvcrj- 



76 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

Mr. Faussett, M.B., F.R.C.S. I., in a paper read before the 
Surgical Society of Ireland, May, 1877, draws the attention of 
the Faculty to this subject, in connection with the feeding of 
infants : — 

" Without presuming to pass any judgment on the many 
artificial substitutes which on alleged chemical and scientific 
principles have from time to time been pressed forward under the 
notice of the Profession and the public to take the place of mother's 
milk, I beg to call attention to a very cheap and simple article 
which is always easily procurable — viz., Cocoa, and which, when 
pure and deprived of an excess of fatty matter, may safely be relied 
on, as Cocoa in the natural state abounds in a number of valuable 
nutritious principles ; in fact, in every material necessary for the 
growth, the development, and sustenance of the body." After 
giving some remarkable cases of children being restored from " the 
last stage of extreme exhaustion'' by its use, and "continued 
through the whole period of infancy" with the effect of their 
becoming fine, healthy children, he concludes by saying : — " I beg, 
therefore, respectfully to commend Cocoa, as an article of infant's 
food, to the notice of my professional brethren, especially those 
who, holding office under the Poor-laws, have such large and 
extensive opportunities of testing its value. That it is as 
nutritious for old as well as young we have an interesting proof 
in the fact that "the first Englishman born in Jamaica, Colonel 
Montague Jamss, who lived to the age of 104, took scarcely any 
food but Cocoa or Chocolate for the last 30 years of his life." 

For athletes, and all who study the development of the 
muscular tissues of the body, its use is most beneficial. Professor 



COCOA AS FOOD — ITS ADL'LTKRATIOXS. 77 

Cavill, ill liis cclcLnilcd swim from Soiiih.imiJluii lo Porlsmoulli, 
and his nearly successful attcmiJt to swim across the Mnglish 
Chaiuicl, considered it to he the most conccnirated and sustaining 
food he could use for that trying test of his staying power. Several 
other instances could be given of the samt! character. 

1 )r. John .Muter, Th.))., l.C.S., in an .irticle on l*repar(!d 
Cocoa, says : — 

"The only objection which can and does exist to its use in a 
state of puril)- is the excessive proportion of fat, which renders it 
too rich for most digestions, and gives unfortunately a colourable 
excuse for its admixture with starch. There are two classes of 
prei)ared Cocoa : (i)'l'hat in whicii the reduction of the fat is 
secured by adding starch and sugar; and (2) That where the fat 
is partially removed and the remainder of the bean is .served to 
the public unmixed. 

"On looking at the composition of Cocoa, the great fallacy of 
countenancing the addition of starch is at once apparent. The 
only possible excuse is the tlilution of the fat, but then, at the 
same time, the nutritious gluten and stimulating theobromine are 
equally reduced in value. On the other hand, given the removal 
of a portion of the fat, the other constituents are not only ke|)t 
int.u t but j.. .sitivcly concentrated in a high degree." 

line Cocoa, carefully prepared and combined with sugar, is 
probably the most delicious and delicate of all confections, and if 
free from the husk or shell, which is often used in the lower 
qualities of chocolate, is certainly one of the most nutritious articles 
of food. 



78 



COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 




Puie decorticated Cocoa, with i-5th inch power, and A eye-piece. Starch cells — inner membrane- 
portions of embryo. 




Cocoa adulterated with common Arrowroot, containing Potato Starch, as seen by i-5th inch power 

and A eye-piece. 



COCOA AS rO(iI>. ITS Ahri.TI I;.\TI< >\S. "Jl) 

1 he iinporl. uu (jucslioii ol ;n.lull<jr.uiun in.iy be divitled uiulcr 
lw.» luMils — vi/., those addiiions that an; fraudulent hut not 
injurious, and those additions that are hoth friudiil m and 
injurious to health. 

Of this 1. liter class of adulteration. l)r. llassall's book on 
• Food and its Adulterations," written many years ago, disposed, 
as it resulteil in i)ublic o[jinion being awakened to such frauds, 
and in a searching investigation on the part of the Government. 
The Atlulteration Act of Parliament (1873) made it necessary 
for the manufacturer to state on every packet that the article 
is soltl as a mixture, and that all addiiions are in no way 
injurious to health. 

We are glad to believe that \'enetian-red, umber, pero.xide 
of iron, and even brick-dust, are adulterations of the past. 

We have, therefore, to deal with the more ditiicult defmitions 
of adulterations that arc not necessarily injurious to health, but 
that retluce the value of Cocoa as food. We have already shown 
that Cocoa is rich in nitrogenous elements, and therefore of 
such inestimable importance as a builder-up antl strengthener of 
the human frame that we need be very jealous of all devices used 
by manufacturers to reiluce its value. There are a certain class 
of additions to Cocoa that can only come imder the head of 
fraudulent adulterations when they are mixed in extravagant 
fjuantities ; we allude more particularly to farinaceous subst.mces. 
such as arrowroot, sago, potato-starch, 6v:c. 

I here can be no objection to such ailditions so long as they 
are stated, and the mixture not soli! as Cocoa. It is h.irdlv fair. 



8o COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

however, to term such articles Chocolate, or Chocolate powder 
(certainly not Cocoa) when the proportion of Cocoa does not 
amount to one-tenth part of the whole. 

We have samples of such articles before us that have been 
palmed on to the public as " Soluble Cocoa." We cannot admit 
under any circumstance that the addition of starch improves the 
quality. It may be that some prefer their Cocoa thick, but while 
the addition of farinaceous substances are made to absorb the 
excess of butter and to make it " soluble," it must not be 
forgotten that it takes the form of an emulsion, and therefore 
cannot be so wholesome as food. 

We now come to the still more difficult and subtle question 
of the addition of alkali in the preparation of pure Cocoa, partly 
deprived of its natural butter, such addition being altogether un 
necessary, as Cocoa can be obtained in three distinct forms, all 
absolutely free from any admixture. 

First, as Cocoa Nibs.— The natural broken segments of the 
roasted Cocoa bean after the shell has been removed. This is 
prepared for the table as an infusion — like tea or coffee — but 
requires some time to simmer before the full alkaline strength 
is extracted. In this case the albuminous portion of the nibs and 
the butter are wasted. 

Second, as Consolidated Nibs. — Cocoa nibs ground between 
heated stones, from which the Cocoa flows in the consistency of 
cream, and, when cool, hardens into a brittle cake of Cocoa ; this 
contains all the Cocoa Butter. It is specially recommended for 
some constitutions, but is too rich for most, and is not easily 
prepared for the table. 



COCOA AS roon. — w-^ \i»llti:kations. Si 

Third, as Cocoa Ivsscncc. — I his is the same article as the 

second, with al)out sixty per cent, of the natural lnitt«r in C«)cna 

removed, conse(iiiently the- proportion of albiiniinniis and stimu- 
lating elements are greatly increased. 

It is made instantly l>\- pouring boiling waiter u[jon it in the 
cup. and thus forms a light beverage, with all the strength and 
tlesh-forming constituents of Cocoa. 

The e.\cu.ses lor adding alkali are that " it makes the Coc«)a 
more soluble." This is — chemically — impossible, as can easily be 
l)n>ved 1)\- allowing the licpior to stand until cold, when it will be 
fountl that all the albuminous i)art of the Cocoa has sunk to the 
bottom of the cup, whik^ the fatl\- portion is lloatinL,^ on the 
surface. 

Also "that the adtlition ot alkali improves the cjualitv." The 
test lor this would be to ask a doctor which he would recommend 
for a child that had lost its natural supply of mothers milk — pure 
Cocoa or alkalized Cocoa .•* Cocoa with butter in its natural state 
or with the butter saponified in the form of an emulsion.-* 

The true re.ison for the adilition of alk.di is apparent to the 
initiate<l. It gives a deceptive value to the Cocoa by tlarkening 
its colour in tin* cuj). The addition of fixeil alkalies is easily 
tletecttrd by an.dysi.s, and when volatiU; alkalies are used, such as 
ammonia, their traces can be easily detected by the sajvinificaiion of 
the butter and the various sceni< "i'' fl '\ . .11.1.1..^, n.., .! 1., . ..v.-r the 
t)ffensive smell and taste. 



82 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

Dr. Paul Zipperer classifies the processes used for the pre- 
paration of Cocoa, deprived of a portion of its butter, as follows : — 

1. By steam pressure. 

2. By fixed alkalies. The Dutch method. 

3. By volatile alkalies, viz., carbonate of ammonia and caustic 
ammonia. The German method. Under this process, the Cocoa 
being roasted and pulverised, and the oil extracted by pressure, it is 
treated with a solution of carbonate of ammonia, and, finally, dried 
up to the complete volatilisation of the ammonia. 

It is contended as an excuse for the adulteration of Cocoa 
with alkali that Cocoa contains a small percentage of alkali in its 
natural state, and that, therefore, it may still be called "perfectly 
pure " after more alkali is added. Allowing that some alkalies, 
carefully treated and added in small quantities, may not 
materially injure Cocoa as food, it is still a dangerous experi- 
ment. The same reasoning would apply to coffee prepared 
with finings. Raw coffee actually loses a large proportion of its 
saccharine element by roasting. Mr. Allen, in his work on 
Organic Analysis, gives the amount of saccharine in raw East 
India coffee at 8 '90, while after roasting it only contains 0*41, so 
that a much stronger plea could be maintained for the manu- 
facturer to add saccharine to his coffee than for the Cocoa 
manufacturer to add alkali to his Cocoa and call it " perfectly 
pure." The strong reason for objecting to all such additions, 
without clearly stating the fact on each packet, is that the public 
should be protected, and when they ask for pure Coffee or pure 
Cocoa that they should know that they get what they ask for. 



COCOA AS FOOD. ITS ADULTERATIONS. 83 

I )r. ( rcspi, ill a n.-cc-iu .uiicle, siiys : — 

" Unfortunately \vc have of late years seen the country 
noodetl with foreign Cocoas, pure in great measure — that is, 
innocent of starch and sugar — but contaminated with an admixture 
of alkali. The exact percentage of these additions and the steps 
in the process are not, however, perfectly clear. The object of 
this adulteration is this : Cocoa does not give an infusion or 
decoction, but mixed with water is practically an emulsion ; it is 
suspended, not dissolved. Now the addition of an alkali gives 
rise to a soap, in plain English, much as when common soap — 
a compound of oil and alkalies — is mixed with water ; but this 
alkalised Cocoa has an appearance of strength which it does not 
possess, and the ignorant consumer hastily assumes that he is 
getting far more for his money and being supplied with a much 
better article, so that he cheerfully pays a higher price for his 
medicated beverage. Hut we are not so much concerned with 
the actual injury done by the adulteration of Cocoa with alkalies 
as with the principle. The recent great improvements in the 
preparation of Cocoa, as we have said above, by removing the 
superabundant oil, have so much increased the digestibility of 
this nutritious beverage that the last excuse for the addition of 
alkalies and starch is gone, and the presence of the former, besides 
being deleterious to some constitutions, cannot answer any purpose 
exce[)t giving an appearance of fictitious strength." 

it may be as well also to add the opinion of 1 >r. Sidney 
Ringer, Professor of Medicine at the University College, L«)ndon, 
aiul Physician to the College Hospital; jx.-rhaj)S the greatest 
luiglish authority on the action of drugs. 



84 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

He states, in his "Handbook of Therapeutics," that "the 
sustained administration of alkaHes and their carbonates renders 
the blood poorer in soHd and in red corpuscles and impairs the 
nutrition of the body." Of ammonia, carbonate of ammonia, and 
spirits of ammonia, he says : " These preparations have many 
properties in common with the alkaline potash and soda group. 
They possess a strong alkaline reaction, are freely soluble in water, 
have a high diffusion power, and dissolve the animal textures." 

One word with respect to the names "Cocoa" and "Choco- 
late." Cacao, or Cocoa, is the commercial name by which the 
plant and the fruit are known all over the world ; therefore it 
directly applies to pure preparation of the fruit. When mixed 
with sugar or any other substance it cannot logically retain its 
original name, and the public have accepted this reasoning by 
asking for " Cliocolate " when they require sweetened Cocoa. 
It v/ould save much confusion if this rule were accepted and acted 
upon by manufacturers, or even enforced by Act of Parliament. 

Much more might be written on the subject of adulteration, 
and we trust it will still claim the careful attention of those 
interested in the supply of pure and wholesome food. 




Vanilla Aromatica. 

r, Branch with flowers. 2, Branch with fruit. 3, Section of fruit showing the three placenta and indefinite seeds 



\'.\MLL.\ AKoMAlK A. 



^"^^ -^AXILLA is so iiuini;iu-l\ coniicctcil with the manufacture 
\ i)t Chocolatt*. that our treatise is hardly c<»mj)Iet<- without 

» some allusion to it in tlils place. 

The name is derived iiMm X'aynilla. which, in Spanish, 
sii^nifies a little knife, or scissors (•;is<- jukI In this cr uinciflt »n refers 
to the shape of the pod. 

Its natural h.ihiiat is the- mountainous parts of jira/il. It is 
now cultivated in lari^e quantities in other parts of the tropical 
world, the principal sources of supply heiniL,^ the I'Vench Colony 
of Reunion, Mauritius, and Seychelles, Mourhon. the West Indies, 
Java. Japan, and Madai^ascar, and within the jkisI few years 
Ceylon and India. Me.xico. whence the principal supj)ly used 
to llow. has almost ceastrd to i^row X'anilla. owini^^ to the 
comparatively low prices now obtained f«»r it. 

There are many species of this lovely and frai^ranl j)lant, 
which !)eloni;s to the j^^inera of Orchidaceous plants ; hut they 
differ in some resjK-cts from orchitis j^cnendly, as the stem will 
l^row to the heij^hl of from twenty to thirty feel. In climhinjj 
u|) the trees, the r(M)tlets which they juit forth as holdfasts arc 
cajxihle of absorbing nutriment for the plant wheii other mmh s ..f 
supply arc cut off. 



S6 COCOA : ALL AliOlT IT. 

The places chosen for a ])lantatl()n are shaded and warm 
ravines in high, damp forests, advantage l)eing taken of trees with a 
soft bark, into whicli the roots may easily penetrate. 

It is interesting, in connection with our subject, to hear from 
one who has cultivated the plant that he has seen it growing 
freely round the stem of the Cocoa tree like a hop. 

Vanilla ai'oiiatica and V. planifolia are the species from 
which the best kind of Vanilla is grown for commerce. The 
leaves are thick and lleshy, as are also the flowers, which are of 
a whitish-green colour. 

The sweet perfume of its fruit is perceptible at a great 
distance, and attracts numbers of brilliantly coloured birds, that 
dispute for the seeds when the fruit opens. 

The Chica Vanilla of Panama is yielded by another orchid, a 
species of sobralia. The expressed juice of V. claviculata, a 
native of mountainous woods in the West Indies, is applied to 
fresh wounds, and is hence called b\- the French in St. Domingo 
Liane a blessiires. There is a species known as zizpic in 
Yucatan, which is a great ornament of the ce?iotes, or subterranean 
water caverns of the country. These singular caverns are 
sometimes entirely subterranean, and are then, of course, without 
vegetation ; frequently, however, they are more or less open at 
the top, when they are often of surpassing beauty, on account of 
the luxuriant development of vegetable life which they contain. 
To these ce7iotes the few ferns of Yucatan are almost confined, 
and it is here that \^anilla attains perfection. The pods are 
occasionally taken to market at Valladolid, where they may be 
bought at an almost nominal price. 



V.WII I A AKkMATK A. 87 

\ anill.i was iioi known in l-umju! iiniil alirr llic tliscovtTy 
ol Anu-rica. aiul lillK" <>r noihini; was known of the plant that 
proilucfd it until 1703, wlu-n it was il<_-scril)cil by lMun)i<T, 

1' Mcnonviili'. \n ho iravcllt-cl to (juaxaca in 1777, thus 
describes his iliscoviry of \ anilla in that district. After various 
himlranccs and tlisappointnu-nis. he says: "Ai length an Indian, 
with a hoe in his hanil, made his api)earance. ' Broth<r,' said I, 
holihni^ out a doll.ir, 'show me some \ anilla and this is yours.' 
He co«»lly l>aile me follow him. and atlvancinj^ a few ste|)s through 
the underwood into a thicket, in which were a numhcr of trees, 
he immediately climbed up one, threw down to m<- two |>ods of 
N'aniila jK-rfectly ripe, and poinieil out lo me a branch on which 
several others were hanging yet green, together with two faded 
flowers. The form of the leaves, the fruit, ihc. peculi.ir smell of 
the plant — everything convinced me it was the real X'anilla, in 
everything corresp)nding with such ius I had seen at X'cr.i Cruz. 
All the trees of this little copse were covered with il. 1 saw a 
(|uantity of green fruit, but collected no more than six s|K*cimens 
of these, and four large pods which were ripe. I caused the 
Indian afterwards to j)art from the nH>t sonu- of the scions which 
had sprung up. These I tied well together, wraj)|)ing u|) the 
whole in the leaves of an arum, which at their base are 3 feet 
wide. After thus jiacking a fj»ggot, which weighed upwards of 
thirty |)«>unils, I placed it in my large sack, which I fastened on 
my horse. I was so well satisfied with my Indian that. In-sidcs 
what I promiseil him, I gave him two reals in adilition. I'or his 
[Kirt, unwilling to In; outdone in generosif' '^'- r-^ •" '^'- '^>>« '"-! 
brought me three other |xkIs of X'anilla." 

G 2 



SS COCOA : ALL AF.OUT IT. 

The Duke of Marlbt^rou^'h introcUiccd the plant into this 
c«>untry in iSoo, and i)resently it made its way to the Continent, 
where it is grown and made to bear abundance of fruit. 

At Liege it is grown on a small scale, and a plant cultivated 
at Paris in 1840 attained the height of three yards, and yielded 
117 pods, which ripened in twelve months. Fine examples may 
be seen in the tropical and economic houses at Kew. Mr. Ewing 
and Mr. E. Bennett grew the Vanilla with considerable success at 
Osberton ; the latter gathered no less than 300 ripe pods off a 
single plant in one season. He considers a temperature of from 
50 to 70 degrees to be most suitable for it. He found it necessary 
to effect fertilization by artificial means, the stigma being prevented 
from receiving the pollen of its own flower by the interposition of 
an organ called the retinaculuvi. 

This process, which in these climates is obliged to be 
performed artificially, is done naturally by insects in countries 
where the plants were originally found in their wild state. 

The fruit of the plant is a long bean or pod, growing from 
four to twelve inches in length, and containing an immense 
number of small black granules, surrounded by a thick balsamous 
substance, which contains a peculiar volatile oil, and a considerable 
quantity of benzoic acid. 

These give the delicious flavour and aroma, which prove so 
powerful and penetrating that a few ounces will flavour one 
hundred-weight of Chocolate. 



VANILLA AROMATICA. 89 

X'anllla acts as a sli;;ht stinuilaiu lu the system, and the- fact 
of its |)<>sscssing hcnzoic acid is oiu! that shoulil not Ik* lost sij^ht 
-t' It is siiid to Ix; used by the Spanish physicians in America as 
.III .iniidolc to poisons, and to the hilt: of venomous creatures. 

The harvest in Mauritius bej^ins in July, and ;is late .1^ 
December in South Aineric.i. the fruits beinjjj j'athered \vh«-n 
yellow. After slight fermentation they are l.iid in the sun to 
ilry, antl when about half-ilrieil. the pods are rubbed with mahoj^any- 
nut oil. and after aijain beiii^ expiised to the sun are oiled a 
sec«)iul time. 

In another mode of prej)aration. ihi- fruit for the market is 
allowed to dry until the |)ods have lost their yellowish j^reen 
colour. Straw mats. c«)ver<.d with woollen blank<ts, are then laid 
on the ground, and when these are warm, the fruits are spread on 
them antl e.\jK)sed to the sun. Alter a time they are wra|)|>ed in 
blankets, and placed in boxes covered with cloth, after which they 
are again exjxiseil. In al)oui twelve hours, the fruits should 
l)ecome a dark coffee-colour, but if they do not the j)rocess is 
rejK'ated. 

AI>out fifty jmkIs are then tied tii^htly t«»gethei in a bundle, at 
each end. and once rounil tht; centn*. with a s|>ccics of gniss, and 
jKicked in tins, which are hermetically sealetl for exp ' 

After some months, the jmkIs become encrusted with an 
eft1<»rcsccncc of while cr)'sials, which |)ossess projHriies similar to 
lh(»sc in benzoic acid ; they form very beautiful objects when seen 
through a microsco()e with {xilari/.ed light. 



90 COCOA : ALL ABOUT IT. 

There are various plans used for dryino^ and preparing 
the pods. All the care cUid success clurinL;' tlie carl)- cultivation 
may easily be lost through want of knowledoe or watchfulness in 
these matters. Wc therefore refer the reader to extracts from a 
paper addressed to the Colonial Secretary, by the Assistant 
Director of the Royal Botanical Gardens, Mauritius, which gives 
a most exhaustive account of the planting, watering, ripening, 
harvesting, curing, and preparation for the market. (See 
Appendix.) 

The South American wild \'anilla, or Yanillon, as it is 
generally called, is the variety V. sylvcstris, and is a much larger 
and coarser variety than those grown for commerce. In some 
parts of Brazil the women entwine this species of Vanilla bean in 
their hair — a weakness for fragrance that is common all the world 
over, although in this case it hardly fits in with our ideas of good 
taste. 

A great variety of spices are used for the flavouring of 
Chocolate, but Vanilla still holds the palm. In Brooke's trans- 
lation from the French, 1730, he tells us : — -"The Spaniards try'd 
to make it (Cocoa) more agreeable by the addition of sugar, some 
Oriental spices and things that grow there, which it will be 
needless to mention — there is none continued down to us but 
Vanilla ; in like manner that Cinnamon is the only spice which 
has had general approbation, and remains in the composition of 
Chocolate." 

The old French writer is very strong in his denunciation of 
Vanilla, as he goes on to say : — " Whereas Chocolate season'd 



VAMI.l.A AKOMATKA. 01 

with X'anilla, aiul other li<»t ami Miiii}^ iiii^TL'tlifius, cannot but l>c 
j)crnicious, especially in sinnnu-r, to young p*-. .«.''• "'■' •" «lry 
constitutions." 

riu" Ircnch still namt.' Chocolate prepared without X'anilla 
" Chocolat Santc." i)ut we have fortunately lived down this 
prejuilice, ami X'anilla reii^ns suprcMiie anionic all ini^redients used 
to flavour Chocolate. 

It has already been intimated, with respect to the j^rowth of 
\ anilla in Mexico, that prices have fallen so considerably that it 
barely pays to grow the croj) in that country. Many years ago 
prices ranged as high as 120/- per pound on the market; the 
highest price now does not realise one-fourth iliai sum. This is 
due to the introtluction of a beautiful crystalline substance called 
X'anilline. which coincides in almost every particular with the 
active principles contained in X'anilla. 

The distinctive aroma is so nearly ilu- same that when 
incorporated with Chocolate it is tlifticult to distinguish with which 
it has been flavouretl. li would, however, be going loo far to 
assert that It is ecjual in aromatic and fruity flavour to X'anilla, 

One ounce of X'anillimr crystals is about ecjual in flavouring 
power to one |K)und of good X'anilla beans; the market value is 
therefore aljout in the proportion of si. \ teen to one. 

X'anilline, of which the chemical formula is C, IL O^, is 
pre|Kireil from Conif*erin<', which is to be found in considerable 
cjuantities in the plants of the numerous family of the Conifers. 



92 COCOA : ALL AIJOUT IT. 

Coniferine was discovered by HartiL;" In t86i in the sap of 
the La7'ix Europca ; later on. its presence was recognised in all 
species of pines and firs. 

In 1874 Messrs. Haarnian and Tiemann sliowed that the 
Coniferine. under the inlluence of oxydizing agents properly 
chosen, could be made to produce Vanilline, which is no other 
than the aromatic principle of the Vanilla pod. This discovery 
has given a certain industrial importance to Coniferine, and it has 
alreadv been collected bv hundreds of kilogframmes in the forests 
of North German}". 

The first consignments of \^anilline were between 1874 and 
1878, and were prepared by a patent process — that is to say, by 
the oxidization of the Coniferine. This is only to be found in the 
descending sap of the pines, so in the spring incisions were made 
at the base of the trees, and the sap which flows from them was 
collected ; it was then filtered and exposed to the air, when it soon 
became solid. In this state it constitutes the Coniferine, which 
could be preserved indefinitely and made use of when required for 
its transformation into Vanilline. 

The more modern and advantageous plan is to fell the tree, 
cut off the branches, and strip them of their bark. The sap is 
then collected by scraping the trunk with a sharp instrument — an 
iron scraper or a knife — and the liquid, as it oozes out is absorbed 
by a coarse sponge, and then squeezed into a tin bucket. If too 
long a time elapses between these two processes the evaporation 
is rapid enough to solidify the juice and then it cannot be collected 



VAMI.l.A AKt )M.\ i n .\. 



93 



The saj) presents the aj)(x:ar.ince of a whiit-, milky, oi^ujue litjuitl, 
and in its normal slate contains a particular su^ar, albumen, and 
Coniferinc. In order to prevent fernu-ntalion it ouv^ht, after live or 
six hours at the most, to be boiled in a furnace from ten to fifteen 
minutes, so as to conj^eal the albumen it contains. The boilinj^ 
li(iuid is hllcreil through a coarse flannel or baize baj^, and the 
filtered product is then e\ aj)orateil to the (jne-fifth part of the orij^inal 
quantity. It is then allowed to cool gently in a shady place for 
one night, when it deposits very small white crystals of X'anilline. 
In order to collect them the li(iuiil is thrown u|>on a linen cloth, 
and when the crystals are sufficiently drained they are pressei! in 
order to squeeze out thi- brown syrup which colours them and 
prevents them from drying. 

The X'anilline obtained by this method is identical with the 
crystals already described as forming on the Vanilla jxkI, the 
chemical constitution of the one being identical with that of the 
others, as is also their physical jiroptrties. 






"T — T" 



i^ 



AI'l'IXDIX. 



I"'\IK.\» i> troin .1 j)aj)t'r .uklrt'ssccl to the Colonial >><h r«i.iry 

I))' Mr. \. Caiulcy. Assistant nircctor of the Royal Botanical 

(»arclens. Mauritius, and supplied by Messrs. Brookes and Cireen, 

Brokers, Mincing Lane, London : — 

Uily 23, iS74- 

Sir, 

I h.iw the honour to l.iy before you the following details respecting the 
cultivation of the N'anilla plant (I'. pUxnifolia) as practised by the princijial 
•jrow.rs in this Colonv, viz. : — 

PRKrARlNC. THK ('.ROUND FOR I'l.AM INC.. 

The plant will grow tolerably well in any porous soil, still it h.is Inren found by 
practical growers that a composition consisting of eijual jwrts of welUdecom|)oscd 
leaves, loam, s,\nd, and ( harcoal, is l)est suited to the wants of the plant, and when 
this can be obtained trenches should be made the entire length of the ground 
intended for the plantation, 18 inches wide, 1 feet deep, and 8 feel ajurt, and filled 
previous to planting with the com|X)sition just alluded to. Some growers put only 
a small ijuantity of the composition into the trenches the first season, or sutlicienl 
to give the plant a start, adding the remainder year by year, by way of surface 
dressing, but this is objectionable in countries subjected to heavy periodical rains, 
as the trenches often stand full of water during such niins, greatly to the injury of 
the plants: it is, therefore, sa fir t(» fill tin- tn-m lus the lirst \ car. or when the 
plants are planted. 

.SH.VDK. 

The Vanill.1, like the rest of the orchid-n cal, delight .<, a fact which at 

oncx* sujjgests that it ought to l)c planted among trees sufficiently brge to screen it 
from the direct rays of the sun, but where such trees are not avaibble jroung trees 



g6 APPENDIX. 

must be planted ; and now arises the question, what will grow quickest in order that 
the Vanilla may be planted as soon as possible ? The plants most commonly used 
for this purpose in Mauritius are the Li/ns de l Tude of the Creoles, Melia 
Azadanch, and Tecoma LeiiuKxy/o)!, and are planted 8 feet apart, as permanent 
plants, but when these are only a few inches high when planted it is evident that a 
period of at least three years must elapse before any considerable amount of shade 
can be expected from them, and this would delay the planting of the Vanilla an 
equal length of time had not the planters access to another plant, the Figfion de 
I Tude of the Creoles (Tatropha curcus), which is of extremely rapid growth, but 
of no permanent nature ; it is easily increased by cuttings of the branches, which 
are generally cut in lengths of 2 feet, and planted, 18 inches apart, in line with the 
Lila and Tecoma plants previously mentioned, and as they will very soon produce 
leaves, some growers plant the Vanilla at the same time, and train it under the 
shade of Pignon de fTude. 

It is better to wait until the Fig/ion de I'Tude be sufficiently strong to allow of 
the trellis work being erected. ^Vhere dead palm-leaves are plentiful some 
growers screen the whole plantation at the first outset, and plant the Vanilla at 
once, but it is not often that leaves are to be had in sufficient quantity to allow of 
this being done, and, again, it is ten to one if the first strong wind does not destroy 
the whole construction. 

PLANTING. 

The usual method of planting Vanilla is by cuttings of the stems of strong, 
healthy plants, and if cut in lengths of 3 feet, they will generally produce fruit 18 
months after planting. Plantations are generally made during the months of 
October and November, in Mauritius, or at the commencement of the hot season, 
when the sap, after a season of comparative rest, is being stimulated by the 
increasing heat into renewed action. As the rapidity of growth greatly depends on 
the number of roots, care must be taken that three joints (nodes) of the cutting be 
placed on the ground, in an oblique direction, and from these joints a plentiful 
supply of roots will be given out, which must be treated as hereafter stated. 

TRAINING, OR ARTIFICIAL SUPPORT. 
The rapidity with which the Vanilla plant grows when its routs have free 
action in a suitable soil is really amazing ; there is therefore no question that, if 



AITl-MMX. fi7 

some system of artifuial training Ik; not rtsorlcd to, it muht vcr)* %iton outgrow tlic 
plants whirh arc intendetl to shade it. IVw trees ran kix-p |»ace with the V • "• 
plant ; and even were it otherwise, it would not lie advivil»le to let the plant 
straij-ht up, because they would very soon get out of reach in this |)osition, so that 
n ladiliT would have to Ik* used in Ratherin^ the pods, fcrtili/ii ' 

other hand, the plants ought to be allowed to run straight up t 

al)out 6 feet in height, as it is well known that the more ix.T|)endicular the pLint 
the (iui<-ker it will grow. Hut to prevent this taking place, \hAvs of a^Kiut 7 t 

length arc driven into the ground, |>eq)endicularly, about 8 feet a|>art, and •■• 

well firmed, hori/ontal bars are attached to them, one fool a|)art. As soon as the 
\anilla has reached the top of this construction it is trained along the horizontal 
bars and thus prevented from getting too much sun. 

W.XTKRINt;. 

The <juantity of water re<juired is greatly modifietl ... >..- ^.... ... > , 

and kind of soil in which the plants are growing ; but if planted in the c. :i 
previously recommended, a good watering twice a week in the hot season, and once 

a week in the cold season, will Ik- generally found sufTicient, but •<' ' ' ' ■• 

given until the ground Ik* fountl thoroughly drv, ns nothini: will kill t; r 
than stagnant water at their roots. 

.M.\.\LRIN(; .\.M> SLRlALi: DRKS.SlNti. 
Of the various manures applied to the Vanilla, nothing has been found to suit 
the plants better than vegetable niould, es|>ecially when mixed with a little charcoal 
or wood ashes, and the plants will Ik* greatly Unefited by a surface «'- ' •' s 

manure in the second year of the plantation, at which date, should .1 - 

be found to have ixrnetrated the natural soil lying Ixrtween the trenches it should 
Ik* turned over with a digging fork, adding at the same ti 
manure, but should the r<K>ts Ik* found not to have rea< '' 

sufficient to remove the surface to a depth of alnnit 2 in< h< ■ et in width on 

each side of the Vanilla stems, and replace with manure. 

1 krui.i/.ation. 

.Self fertiliz-ation in the Vanilla, • \n /'.//..• , of rare occi:-- 

».. ,Mv .!M;ful extent, owing to the i:.; .^n of the !.......,.,.!, which in a j 



98 APPENDIX. 

of the inner face of the style, which makes artificial fertilization an indispensable 
process, and which simply consists. in removing the pollen from the anthers of the 
flower and applying it to the stigma with a small camel-hair brush ; this is best 
done about mid-day during bright sunny weather. 

A brush is used in England, but the anther itself may be applied. Some 
growers look after fertilization in the cool of the morning ; if this be preferred, a dry 
morning should be chosen. 

DURATION OF THE PERIOD OF RIPENING. 

The duration of the period of ripening from time of fertilization is generally 

about nine months, when the pods become of a yellowish-green colour, and the 

valves show a tendency to open (dehisce) at the lower extremity, which is a sure sign 

of ripeness. 

HARVESTING THE PODS. 

Most of the pods are harvested in Mauritius during the month of July ; but as 

the plants come into flower very irregularly, all the pods cannot be harvested at the 

same time, so that those found unripe at the first gathering must be waited for 

until they show the usual signs of ripeness ; for if gathered sooner they will shrivel 

during the process of drying, and fetch but a small price in the market. Should any 

of the pods, however, be left on the plant until the valves have opened (if more than 

half-an-inch they are useless), they should be at once removed, the opening part tied 

up, and plunged for a moment in boiling water, and afterwards put through the 

usual process of drying with the other pods. 

DRYING AND PREPARING THE PODS. 
The drying and preparing of the pods is undoubtedly a most difiicult item in 
Vanilla cultivation, and if not thoroughly understood, all previous labour with the 
plant will be lost. 

The different methods of preparation, as practised in Mauritius, are more or 
less as follows. A large oven (similar to that in which ordinary bread is baked), 
with two valves on the top, and a thermometer fixed in the ironwork in front, is 
heated by the application cf fire beneath until the thermometer indicates a heat of 
40 degrees Centigrade, or 104 degrees Fahrenheit. The fire is then withdrawn, and 
pods, in quantity of about 60 or 70 lbs. together, are well wrai)ped in banana leaves, 



AITKNIUX. 99 

which arc again covered witli a WDollcn ( loih, ami placed in the oven, where they 
are allowed to remain until the mercury of the thermometer (alls to atK)Ut 90 dc^reis 
Fahrenheit, after which they are n-moved and placed in a wootk-n !>' nd 

cooled gradually ; when nearly cold they are exptjscd to the sun oti • d 

with blankets, on which, when warmed by the sun, the pods are spread. 

Some growers, instead o( letting the pod be exposed to the direct rays of the 
sun, cover them with a black woollen cloth, which by absorbing a great amount ul 
heat from the sun, as well as moisture from the ptxl, modifies the process of drying, 
and imjiarts to the fruits a superior flavor and colour than they otherwise would 
have ; after iK-ing thus exposed for two or three days, they ought to be of a 
dark brown, or coffee colour ; they are next laid on jK-rforateil shelves in an airy 
room, where they are allowed to remain for one month, or until dry, when they will 
be found to have shrunk to one fourth of their natural si/e, and of a blackish hue 
with a somewhat silvery ap|K.'arance. 

1»RK1'ARIN'(; THL l'Ui»^ iuK MARKET. 
In preparing the pods for market those of a si/.e are carefully selected, and tied 
in bundles of fifties. Good marketable pods are about 8 inches long, and 50 of those 
will generally weigh three <iuarters of a pound ; the smaller pods half-a-pound. 
After l)eing thus arrangetl they are jxicked in tins, about 12 or 16 lbs. each, and 
sent to the London market. 



(^^'i^y^LiiJ'^'^f^ti 



^.y. 



COCOA : All About It, 

Bv "HISTORICUS." 



Opinions of t/w Press on the First Edition. 



" The history and cultivation of the cocoa plant, the uses of cocoa, the composition of cocoa, its 
manufacture, its value as food and its adulteration, are discussed by one evidently having practica 
acquaintance with the subject." — The Lancet. 

" The first comprehensive work, that has up to the present been published, concerning a staple 
commodity which is daily becoming more popular." — Public Opinion. 

" Those curious to learn more ' about it ' than they can obtain from an encyclopsedia could not 
do better than turn to this book." — Manchester Exainincr. 

" The subject-matter justifies the ' nom de plume,' for, although there is not a dry or tedious 
page in the work, research has been made into every record that could throw light upon the discovery 
and^early use of the plant. These records had in most cases to be diligently sought out, and the 
result is a monograph on the subject that is not less acceptable in the historical and scientific sense 
than it is in readableness and attractive form." — Leeds Mercury. 

" Of special value is the chapter on the Value of Cocoa as P'ood and its Adulterations." 

— Manchester Courier. 

" ' Historicus ' has done his work well ; the volume contains a great deal of information of special 
merest to members of the grocery trade." — The Grocer. 

" We commend it for its comprehensiveness." — Christian World. 

"A most interesting and entertaining book." — Court Journal. 

"A popular illustrated account of the natural history and methods of cultivation of the plant." 

— The Scotsman. 

" Besides cocoa, the volume deals at length with Vanilla aromatica, a plant intimately connected 
with the manufacture of chocolate." — Bailie. 

" Abundance of telling illustrations." — Scottish Leader, 

" The book is very opportune. It is somewhat remarkable that a commodity of such universal 
p)opularily as cocoa should not until now have been honoured with anything in the shape of a 
complete history. In the work before us we have an attempt to supply what h,as so long beerf 
wanting — a consecutive, concise, and thoroughly well-informed sketch of the history, cultivation, 
manufacture and uses of this delicate product." — Belfast Morning News. 



.1' 



/•■• 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SUPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



^ ■ •■Vni 



.5E!M BY 

P.. cRVATION 

^JRVICES 



DATE 



-r-.-, , rt .•»-■. TTi 




