


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
AT LOS ANGELES 




GIFT OF CAPT. AND MRS. 
PAUL MCBRIDE PERIGORD 



UNIVERSITY of UALlFUKNtf 

AT 

LOS ANGELES 

LIBRARY 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

Microsoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/foodsdietariesmaOOburniala 



FOODS AND DIETARIES: 



H fIDanual of Clinical Dietetics. 



BY 

R, W. BURNET, M.D., F.R.C.P., 

PHYSICIAN IN ORDINARY TO H.R.II. THE DUKE OF YORK; SENIOR PHYSICIAN' TO 
THE GREAT NORTHERN CENTRAL HOSPITAL,. 



Kfjtrti Litton. 



LONDON: 

CHARLES GRIFFIN & COMPANY, LIMITED; 

EXETER STREET, STRAND. 

189G. 
[All rights reserved.] 

1 3^Q3S 






PEEFACE. 



The form that this little book has taken was suggested by 
the habit, which for a number of years I have followed, of 
writing out in detail directions for patients. 

In carrying out this plan, I have endeavoured to state 
briefly at the beginning of each section the rationale of 
the special dietary recommended. To give definiteness to 
the directions, the hours of taking food and the quantities 
to be given at each time are stated, as well as the kinds 
of food most suitable. In many instances there is also 
added a list of foods and dishes that are unsuitable to the 
special case. 

Eeferences are given, where required, to the Recipes for 
Invalid Cookery, which form the Appendix, and which 
have all been very carefully selected. 

Repetition in the diets will be found to a considerable 
extent ; but this seems to me unavoidable, in view of the 
fact that, in many instances, what has to be sought for is a 
simple physiological dietary. 

The discussion of food and diet in health is treated 
exhaustively in several standard works, and I- have not 
touched upon that aspect of the subject, but havo confined 



vi PREFACE. 

myself wholly to Clinical Dietetics, with the hope that a 
small practical manual will be found useful in many cases 
of illness where a larger work is out of place. 

My grateful acknowledgments are due to several friends, 
and especially to Dr. James Anderson, for valuable sug- 
gestions. 

R W. BURNET. 



London, 6 Uppeb Wimpole Stbbkt, W. 
December 1890. 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 



As only fifteen months have elapsed since the first edition 
of this work was published, I have thought it best to make 
no material changes in this edition. 

Some additions, however, have been made. A short 
chapter on the dietetic treatment of Influenza has been 
inserted, and a number of useful Recipes have been added 
to the Appendix. 

R W. BURNET. 



London, 6 Uppeb Wtmpole Stbket, W. 
April 1892. 



CONTENTS. 



TAOE 

Introduction ... . i 



CHAPTER I. 



Diseases of the Stomach 



General Contents : — Chronic Gastric Catarrh (Chronic Gastritis : 
Irritative Dyspepsia : Inflammatory Dyspepsia) — Atonic Condi- 
tions of the Stomach (Atonic Dyspepsia) — Ulcer of the Stomach 
— Cancer of the Stomach — Hsematemesis — Inflammations of the 
Stomach (Acute and Subacute Gastritis : Acute Gastric Catarrh). 



CHAPTER II. 

Diseases op the Intestinal Tract 29 

General Contents : — Constipation — Diarrhoea — Acute Enteritis — 
Acute Gastro-intestinal Catarrh — Inflammation of the Colon — 
Dysentery — Acute Peritonitis — Typhlitis and Perityphlitis. 



CHAPTER III. 

Diseases of the Liver, &c. ...... 45 

General Contents : — Functional Derangements — Acute Congestion of 
the Liver — Inflammation of the Liver — Diet in Gravel and Uric 
Acid Calculus — Oxaluria. 



CHAPTER IY. 

Diabetes, &c .51 

General Contents : — Diabetes Mellitus — Simple Glycosuria — Polyuria 
(Diabetes Insipidus). 



viii CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER V. 

PAGE 

Diseases of the Kidneys 61 

General Contents : — Acute Blight's Disease — Chronic Bright's 
Disease. 

CHAPTER VI. 
Scurvy . . .69 

CHAPTER VII. 
Anaemia 72 

CHAPTER VIII. 
Scrofula 78 

CHAPTER IX. 

Gout (Chronic and Acute) 84 

CHAPTER X. 
Obesity > . 93 

CHAPTER XI. 

Diseases of the Lungs and Plkurs 97 

General Contents: — Pulmonary Phthisis — Asthma — Pulmonary Em- 
physema — Chronic Bronchitis — Pleurisy with Effusion. 

CHAPTER XII. 

Diseases of the Heart 114 

General Contents : — Chronic Valvular Hi-art Disease— Weak Heart — 
Fatty Heart — Aortic Aneurism. 



CONTENTS. ix 

CHAPTER XTII. 

PAQB 

Acute and Chronic Rheumatism 122 

General Contents : — Acute Rheumatism (Rheumatic Fever) — Chronic 
Rheumatism (Rheumatoid Arthritis). 

CHAPTER XIV. 
Alcoholism 126 

General Contents : — Chronic Alcoholism — Acute Alcoholism (Delirium 
Tremens). 

CHAPTER XV. 

Nervous Disorders 131 

General Contents :— Hysteria — Weir-Mitchell Treatment. 

CHAPTER XVI. 
Diathetic Diseases .137 

General Contents :— Fevers (except Typhoid Fever), Acute Pneu- 
monia, &c. — Typhoid Fever — Use of Alcohol in Fevers. 

CHAPTER XVII. 
Diseases of Children 148 

General Contents : — Indigestion in Infants and in Older Children — 
Chronic Diarrhoea — Rickets— Neurosal Affections of Children. 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

Alcohol 159 

General Contents : — Action of Alcohol — Effect of Alcohol in Diges- 
tion — Use and Abuse of Alcohol. 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Prepared and Predigested Foods 165 

General Contents : — Malted Farinaceous Foods— Predigested Foods 
— Nutrient Enemata. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER XX. 

PAOR 

Influenza 169* 



APPENDIX. 

Cookery for Invalids 173 

General Contents: — Beef Essences — Beef-Tea— Nutritious Beef-Tea — 
Beef -Tea with Oatmeal— Mutton Broths— Chicken-Tea— Calf 's- 
Foot Broth — Mutton Broth — Veal Broth— Egg and Brandy- 
Egg and Sherry — Caudle — Another Caudle — Milk and Isinglass 
— Arrowroot — Arrowroot Gruel — Oatmeal Gruel — Tamarind- 
Water — Arrowroot and Black-Currant Drink — Cream of Tartar 
(Potus Imperialis) — Rice- Water — Snow-Pudding — Lemonade — 
Milk Lemonade — Rice and Milk — Oatmeal Porridge — Milk Por- 
ridge — Whole-Meal Porridge — Irish Moss — Toast- Water — Barley- 
Water — Milk, Eggs, and Brandy — Port-Wine Jelly — Bread-Jelly 
— Wine-Jelly — Chicken Panadas — Game Panada — Nourishing 
Soup — Tapioca Soup with Cream — Puree of Potatoes — Cream of 
Barley — Maccaroni with Milk — Maccaroni (Stewed in Stock)— 
Lamb's Head — Cow-Heel Fried — Ox Palates — Sweetbread — 
Sweetbread with White Sauce — Calf's Head — Tripe — Breast of 
Lamb with Vegetables — Kidgeree — Fish Soup — Calf's-Foot Jelly 
— Blanc-Mange — Arrowroot-Puilding — Light Pudding — Custards 
— Rice-Pudding — Rice-Cream — Cornflour — Hominy-Pudding — 
Blanc-Mange Cream — A Ripe Fruit Cream — Chocolate Cream — 
Summer Fruit Pudding — Apple Charlotte — Charlotte Russe — 
Omelet — Souffle — Omelet (Savoury) — Peptonised Milk — Pepton- 
ised Gruel — Peptonised Milk-Gruel — Peptonised Soups, Jellies, 
and Blanc-Manges — Peptonised Beef-Tea — Peptonised Enemata 
— Whey — White-Wine Whey — "Tops and Bottoms in Milk" — 
Savoury Jelly — Barley-Gruel — Maccaroni Cheese — Buttered 
Eggs — Gum Water — Meat Lozenges — Raw-Meat Sandwiches — 
Chicken Soufflee — Beef or Mutton Tea — Tapioca Jelly — Savoury 
Custard — Nutritious Chicken-Broth — Lamb's Foot — Calf's Foot 
— Milk and Oatmeal. 



FOODS AND DIETAKIES: 

A MANUAL OF CLINICAL DIETETICS. 

INTRODUCTION. 

A knowledge of the physiology of digestion lies at the 
root of sound practical dietetics, and although it does not 
come within the scope of the present work to enter into a 
lengthy examination of different foods and their properties, 
or into a detailed account of the mechanism of digestion, it 
may be well to advert very briefly to a few points regarding 
foods and normal digestion. 

For the present purpose foods may be grouped as (i) 
nitrogenous elements (albuminoids, proteids) ; (2) carbo- 
hydrates (starches, sugars, &c); (3) hydro-carbons (fats); 
(4) salts and water. 

The proper apportioning of these different elements, with 
due regard to the age, circumstances, and surroundings of 
the individual, constitutes for healthy persons a well-balanced 
and economical diet. Probably, however, it very seldom 
happens, even in health, that an exact balance is struck 
between the wants of the system and the amount of food 
that is consumed. For example, when the dietary is full and 
the digestive organs are vigorous, the surplus food assimi- 
lated is stored up, and increase of body- weight takes place. 
Moreover, even in healthy persons some of the food taken 
is incompletely digested, and is thrown off in the excreta. 
Again, when the diet is scanty and insufficient for the needs 

A 



2 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

of the system at the time, the reserves have to be drawn 
upon, and loss of weight is the result. Fluctuations often 
occur in the same individual, according to the surroundings 
in which he is at the time placed as regards climate, activity, 
and other agencies influencing the processes of oxidation. 
Thus, a diet that is amply sufficient for a sedentary life 
would not meet the requirements of an active, open-air life. 
Conversely, the body when called upon to undertake great 
muscular activity may be able to utilise a diet that in times 
of less activity would burden it with waste matter and lead 
to disturbances of health. 

Albuminoids are recognised as the chief tissue-forming 
foods, and they are therefore needed to supply the body 
waste that is continually taking place to a greater or less 
extent. By increasing the activity of oxidation, albuminoids 
produce in the body increased rapidity of tissue change. 
In circumstances where oxidation is especially rapid, as in 
vigorous persons undergoing hard muscular exertion in the 
open air, larger supplies of food, with a greater proportion of 
nitrogenised elements in the diet, are required than in those 
who are less actively employed, or in the same persons when 
leading a more sedentary life. It may, however, very well 
be questioned whether albuminoids are ever necessary or 
desirable in the amounts consumed by many persons, and 
assuredly whenever we are brought face to face with defective 
elimination of nitrogenous waste, the albuminoid constituents 
of the dietary should be limited. 

In youth, during the period of growth and building-up of 
the body, when muscular and nutritive activity are greatest, 
larger supplies of alimeut, and especially of the tissue- 
formers, are digested and well assimilated than in later life 
when the period of growth has passed, and when bodily 
activity is not so great. 

On the other hand, old people are apt to make the mistake 
of adhering to a diet consisting more largely of albuminoids 
than the diminished wants of the system in advanced age 



INTRODUCTION. 3 

require. The result is a condition of discomfort or of 
distress induced by the inability of their organs to excrete 
the amount of nitrogenous waste matter that arises from 
the use of such a dietary. 

The nitrogenous principles in foods, although primarily 
necessary for the maintenance and repair of the tissues 
of the body, are known to assist also in the production 
of force and heat. In the latter properties, however, they 
are secondary to the carbo-hydrates and fats. 

Life is not sustained by a non-nitrogenous diet, but the 
carbo-hydrates and fats when combined with albuminoids 
are the great force and heat producers. They do not tend 
to increase tissue change, and any surplus of them left in 
the body may be stored up against future needs. Failure 
on the part of the system to assimilate and elaborate its 
supplies of the carbo-hydrates constitutes a grave defect in 
nutrition, notably exemplified in the case of diabetes. 

The importance of fresh vegetables and fresh meats as 
bearers of extractives and salines, apart from their actual 
nutritive value, has been fully established, but is frequently 
overlooked in ordinary dietaries. If proof of this were 
wanting, we have it in the fact that evil consequences 
speedily follow the withdrawal from the dietary of the 
important vegetable salts. Such consequences reach their 
climax in attacks of scurvy and allied disorders. 

Concerning the condition of the digestive organs them- 
selves, it will suffice here to mention these four essentials 
of vigorous digestion, namely, a healthy condition of the 
mucous membrane, a due supply of normal gastric juice, 
sufficient nervous stimulus and good muscular tone to ensure 
proper rhythmic movements. Each of these is important 
in its own place, as separate consideration of them will 
show ; and if one or all of these conditions be impaired or 
absent, difficulty of digestion will result, in a more or less 
pronounced form, according to the extent to which the 
defect exists. 



,| FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

As regards, iu the first place, the condition of the healthy 
gastric mucous membrane, our knowledge has been gained 
mainly by direct observation. Those rare instances in which 
it lias been possible to observe, through a fistulous opening 
iu the stomach-wall, the actual appearance of the healthy 
mucous membrane when it is at rest, and also the changes 
that occur during the process of digestion, have taught much 
that is of great practical importance in relation to diet, both 
in health and in the different degrees of disorder and disease. 
The well-known opportunity of this kind, that was fully 
taken advantage of by Dr. Beaumont some sixty years ago, 
occurred in the person of a healthy young Canadian, Alexis 
St. Martin, who was accidentally wounded by the discharge 
of a gun. The shot, entering the left side and perforating 
the stomach, carried away part of its anterior wall. The 
man passed through a severe and protracted illness, but 
ultimately regained his health. The opening, however, never 
clesed, and by means of it Dr. Beaumont made his valu- 
able observations, which have since been confirmed and, in 
some particulars, amplified and corrected by experiments 
on animals. 

The healthy stomach when empty is contracted, and its 
surface is pale ; its vessels small and tortuous. When, 
however, food passes down the oesophagus and is received 
into the stomach, the pink, velvety appearance of the 
mucous membrane is seen to give place to a brighter, 
slightly darker shade ; the vessels dilate and become more 
full of blood, and the secretion of gastric juice commences. 
Experiments have further shown that the same results 
follow upon the introduction of food through an external 
opening, or upon stimulation by means of a smooth body 
introduced from without, and gently rubbed against the 
inner surface of the stomach. In the latter case the effect 
soon passes off. If, however, the stimulus be carried to 
such an extent as to cause irritation, effects exactly the 
opposite of those described above are produced, namely, 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

contraction of the vessels, suppression of the gastric juice, 
and the secretion in its place of a quantity of mucus. The 
importance of this physiological fact will appear subse- 
quently on many occasions. 

Absorption is an important part of the process of diges- 
tion. If the stomach of a healthy animal be ligatured at 
the pylorus, and food be introduced by the oesophagus, it will 
be found that a considerable portion of the food is absorbed 
by the stomach. If the mucous membrane be not healthy 
and active the transudation goes on very slowly, or does 
not take place to any appreciable extent. 

Now as regards the second condition, namely, a due 
supply of normal gastric juice. Proteids that have under- 
gone coagulation are very insoluble, even under the action 
of strong acids ; but they are readily acted upon by the 
gastric juice. It is necessary that the alkalinity of the food 
as swallowed should be neutralised, and not only neutralised, 
but converted into an acid state, in order that digestion in 
the stomach may proceed satisfactorily. It is a well-known 
fact that if the products of digestion be removed as they 
are formed, and if the acidity be kept up to the normal 
standard, a very large amount of food will be digested by a 
given, and, relatively, very small, quantity of gastric juice. 
When the acidity of the gastric juice is neutralised its 
digestive action ceases, and in such circumstances fibrin 
may remain in it for a long time without being digested. 
If, however, the gastric juice that has been neutralised be 
again brought up to the standard acidity, it becomes as 
active as it was before. When a large quantity of fibrin is 
placed in a small quantity of gastric juice digestion soon 
ceases, but if sufficient hydrochloric acid be added, digestion 
speedily recommences. 

Given, then, a healthy mucous membrane, a sufficiency 
of normal gastric juice, and an absence of any abnormal 
nervous interference, the comparative digestibility of food 
is mainly determined by mechanical conditions, which pro- 



6 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

mote or retard the action of the gastric juice upon it. The 
greater the amount of surface that is presented to the 
action of the gastric juice, the more quickly will solution 
take place. Hence tough, doughy substances, that cling in 
masses, and firm, unbroken fibres, whether of animal or 
vegetable tissue, longer resist solution in the gastric juice 
than friable, minutely divided particles. It need hardly, 
therefore, be pointed out that thorough mastication of food 
is of the utmost importance, since by that means minute 
subdivision is secured, and consequently a vastly increased 
surface-area is presented for the action of the gastric juice. 
Moreover, in the case of carbo-hydrates, in addition to the 
mechanical effects of prolonged mastication, their digestion 
is begun in the mouth, by the action of the saliva converting 
them into dextrin. 

In speaking of the appearance of the healthy gastric 
mucous membrane, it was implied that the stomach when 
empty and contracted is at rest. On the introduction of 
food, however, or when the stomach is stimulated in other 
ways, certain movements are set up. On the first entrance 
of food into the stomach there are but feeble indications 
of movement ; hence it is evidently riot the fact of the 
stomach being filled that causes the movements. If that 
were the cause, they would be greatest at the beginning, 
whereas observations show that they increase and become 
more marked as digestion proceeds, till they attain a 
rhythmic, churning action. The movements, therefore, are 
clearly an essential part of digestion, and are not due to 
any mere mechanical cause. By these regular movements 
fresh portions of the food are brought under the action 
of the gastric juice. 

In health, as has been already pointed out, a dietary 
is suitable or well-balanced when it is properly adapted to 
the wants of the individual, and contains a due proportion 
of nitrogenous elements, of carbo-hydrates, of fats, and of 
salines, with water. Clinically, however, the definition does 



INTRODUCTION. 7 

not hold good, for here the dietary must be modified accord- 
ing to the diathesis of the patient, the condition of his 
different organs, and the disease from which he is suffering. 
For example, when the eliminative processes are hampered, 
albuminoids must be cut down ; and, on the other hand, 
when the system is unable to deal with the carbo-hydrates, 
they must be reduced to a minimum, and so on. Again, 
take, for instance, functional disorders of the digestive 
organs. In these cases the times of giving food and the 
intervals between the supplies, the amount given at a time 
and the mode of preparing the food, are details of almost 
equal importance with the consideration of the kind of 
food to be given. In health the regulation three meals a 
day are found, by the majority of people, to be the most 
convenient division, but the sick man cannot take a 
sufficient supply at a time to last for five or six hours, 
and consequently he must have his smaller supplies at 
shorter intervals. The length of the interval will depend 
on the quantity that can be taken at a time, the kind of 
food that is given, and the rapidity with which absorption 
is carried on. 

Plain, simple cooking should be the rule in health, and 
much more does this apply to invalid cookery. It cannot 
be too good, it cannot be too simple, nor for invalids can 
the food be too daintily served. The surroundings and 
circumstances under which food is taken have a great deal 
to do with the comfort of the patient. The fitful, fastidious 
appetite of the invalid is whetted by the appearance of a 
little meal daintily served, while the presentation of a large 
quantity turns him, for the time, against all food. Sick- 
room cookery is now much better understood than it used 
to be, but it is to be feared that many nurses and atten- 
dants on the sick, not to speak of medical men, hardly yet 
appreciate fully the help that attention to such details will 
bring to those under their care. 



CHAPTER I. 
DISEASES OP THE STOMACH. 

General Contents : Chronic Gastric Catarrh (Chronic Gastritis : Irritative 
Dyspepsia : Inflammatory Dyspepsia) — Atonic Conditions of the Stomach 
(Atonic Dyspepsia) — Ulcer of the Stomach — Cancer of the Stomach — 
Haematemesis — Inflammations of the Stomach (Acute and Subacute 
Gastritis : Acute Gastric Catarrh). 

Chronic Gastric Catarrh ( = Chronic Gastritis: 
Irritative Dvspepsia: Inflammatory Dyspepsia). 

These are all different names given to varying degrees of a 
condition, or to several closely allied conditions, that fre- 
quently come before us in patients who complain that they 
are suffering from indigestion. 

Symptoms. — On questioning such patients, they tell us 
that their appetite is variable and uncertain. They com- 
plain of acidity, heartburn, and pain after eating ; of pyrosis; 
of sickness at times, coming on soon after meals, and espe- 
cially after indulging in any rich or indigestible articles of 
diet ; of thirst, and a sense of gnawing, heat, and soreness 
at the epigastrium ; in some cases, also, there is slight 
epigastric tenderness on pressure. The tongue is red at the 
tip, furred at the base, or, in cases of long standing, it is 
bare, often scored and fissured. Sleep is broken and dis- 
turbed, and there is usually some loss of flesh and strength. 
The bowels are constipated, but constipation may, every 
now and again, give place to an attack of diarrhoea. 

Origin and Causes. — The condition indicated by the 
foregoing brief outline of symptoms may have its origin 



CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH. 9 

in gastric congestion and catarrh, resulting from disease 
of liver, heart, or kidneys. It may be induced by over- 
indulgence in alcoholic stimulants, and it is especially 
common in those who are in the habit of taking spirits on 
an empty stomach. In persons in whom the predisposition 
exists, frequently recurring or continued irregularities in 
diet, such as eating things of known ihdigestibility, hurry- 
ing over meals, working close up to and immediately after 
a full meal, are sufficient to induce an attack. Worry and 
anxiety are also common causes ; and we have not in- 
frequently seen this condition, which is undoubtedly often 
connected with the gouty state, alternating with outbursts 
of eczema. 

Irritability of the Mucous Membrane. — From what has 
been said of the symptoms, it is evident that the condition 
we are here called upon to deal with is one in which there 
is great irritability of the mucous membrane. In these 
circumstances, if the food be bulky, so as to distend the 
stomach ; if it be harsh, lumpy, and coarse,, so that it 
irritates this tender surface ; if it be highly seasoned with 
spices and condiments, the hyper-sensitive stomach will turn 
against it, the vessels will contract, the follicles will refuse 
their contents, mucus will be poured out ; and if that be 
not sufficient to protect its walls and to allay the increased 
irritation, vomiting will ensue, and the whole contents of 
the stomach will speedily be rejected. Even if the stomach 
does not thus summarily get rid of its burden, the food will 
remain for a long time undigested, giving rise to flatulence, 
weight at the epigastrium, and a sense of fatigue and 
depression in place of strength and refreshment will ensue. 

Small Quantities of Food at Short Intervals. — In such 
circumstances as these, food must be given in very bland, 
easily digestible forms, in smaller quantities at a time than 
in health, and at shorter intervals of time. Moreover, the 
food must be partaken of very slowly. If the symptoms 
be severe, the rules will be the same as for a case of gastric 



io FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

ulcer or gastric erosion (see p. 17), but in less" severe cases 
the following dietary will be suitable : — 

Dietary. — In all but comparatively slight cases it will be 
better for the patient, at first at least, to have his breakfast 
in bed, as he is sure to feel somewhat tired after the exertion 
of dressing. If he is sufficiently well to be up and about, 
let him take before rising a teacupful of milk, with enough 
hot water in it to take the chill off, and let breakfast follow 
very shortly after he is dressed. It may be here repeated 
that strict injunctions must be given the patient to take 
all food very slowly by teaspoonfuls, and at a temperature 
rather cool than hot, but not actually cold. A typical 
breakfast will consist of a breakfast-cupful of "tops and 
bottoms," or unsweetened rusks, made as for infants' food, 
or a cupful of any prepared farinaceous food. 

Some patients can go on taking the same things with 
relish for a considerable time, while others very soon get 
tired of one thing, and require a change. As much 
variety as possible should be introduced into the dietary, 
and, in addition to the alternatives already given, another 
change may be made by substituting for plain milk, weak 
cocoa nibs or peptonised cocoa, made with boiling water, 
with some milk added in the cup. 

10.30— 1 1. — A small glass of milk with the chill taken 
off, and a teaspoonful of malt extract added to it, or a 
teacupful of chicken tea with a plain biscuit or thickened 
with some farinaceous material. 

1 o'clock. — A breakfast-cupful of good beef-tea (" whole 
beef-tea," i.e., with some of the meat dried, pounded, and 
mixed with the liquid), or a breakfast-cupful of strong 
mutton broth with a finger of toast dipped in it. 

4 o'clock. — A cupful of milk flavoured with tea, or a cup- 
ful of cocoa nibs with a slice of thin bread and butter. 

6.30-7. — A meal like that at one o'clock; some variety 
of broth or beef-tea. 

9. 30-1 o. — A teacupful of water arrowroot with a dessert- 



CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH. II 

or a tablespoonful of brandy stirred into it, or a cupful of 
Mellin's food. 

Food at Night. — If the patient sleeps well throughout the 
night, there is no necessity for him to have food ; but if he 
wakes up, a glass of milk and water, or gruel, or farinaceous 
food made thin, and kept in a covered jug under a cosey, 
should be within reach ; or some meat-jelly, and a few spoon- 
fuls of the jelly, or a teacupful of the other food, will often 
help to procure sleep. 

Alcohol. — It will be observed that the only admission of 
alcohol into this dietary is the small quantity permitted at 
bedtime, and, as a rule, these patients are better without 
more. Some, however, either from age or from feebleness of 
constitution, are so weak that it is necessary to allow a small 
amount during the day as well, and it will usually then be 
found best to give it in the form of old spirit, in quantities 
varying from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful, either in the 
food at the midday and evening meals or in a claret-glassful 
of water, sipped just after the food. 

Treatment of Severe Cases. — Severe cases of the kind 
now under consideration will at first require the same treat- 
ment as cases of acute gastric catarrh, or of gastric ulcer, 
and there will be found many gradations between such 
cases and the slight ones. It will frequently be necessary 
to begin treatment on the strictest plan, and as the con- 
dition of the stomach improves, to advance gradually to a 
•dietary similar to the one just given. 

Food in the Convalescent Stages. — As convalescence pro- 
gresses, a further step will then be to substitute plain purees 
(see Appendix) of chicken or game, or panada of chicken, 
or boiled sole, or whiting, for the liquid at the midday and 
evening meals. Next, a lightly boiled egg, or a poached 
egg, with dry toast or stale bread and a little butter, and 
a cup of cocoa, may be given at breakfast. If that be 
well borne, go on to boiled white fish of the lighter kinds 
at breakfast, continuing the pounded meat for dinner. 



12 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Gradual Return to Ordinary Diet.— By degrees, allow the 
patient to return to ordinary but very simple food in the 
solid form. A slice of roast mutton, or the thick part of 
a mutton-chop, or the breast of a chicken, with bread, some 
well-boiled spinach, or other tender green vegetable, will 
come in first at the midday meal — giving boiled sole or 
whiting at the evening meal. It should be kept in mind 
that no cases are more liable to relapse than these, and 
that upon what may seem a very trifling irregularity of 
diet. The process of change, therefore, must be gradual, 
and it is well not to run the risk of a relapse for the sake 
of getting back to ordinary food a little sooner. If such 
patients are to keep well they must for a considerable 
time at least, and sometimes altogether, abstain from 
eating salted and cured meats, preserved or tinned fish, 
pastry, " made-dishes," raw vegetables, cheese, nuts, sweets, 
and especially from any form of stimulant upon an empty 
stomach. 

Constipation. — Constipation is often troublesome, espe- 
cially in earlier stages of treatment, and the irritability of 
the mucous membrane of the digestive tract prevents its 
being obviated by the use of brown bread, fruit, and vege- 
tables. Some simple aperient or an occasional enema will 
be required, but these should not be too soon resorted to nor 
too often repeated, lest the habit of depending upon artificial 
means become established. 

Atonic Conditions of Stomach: Atonic Dyspepsia. 

Symptoms. — Forming a marked contrast to the foregoing 
cases in many ways, yet not far removed from them, and 
in some features presenting a family resemblance, are those 
patients who come before us complaining of a sense of weight 
and fulness in the epigastrium with distension coming on a 
short time after eating. Occasionally there is slight pain, 
sometimes spasms, but as a rule discomfort and a sense of 



A TONIC DYSPEPSIA . 13 

sinking are complained of, rather than any acute pain, and 
there is no tenderness on pressure — in fact, moderate pres- 
sure, for the time being, affords relief. Acidity, pyrosis, and 
vomiting are usually absent, but there is a good deal of 
flatulence, and discomfort is temporarily relieved by eructa- 
tions. The flatulent distension usually extends to the bowels 
as well, and gives rise to colicky pains in the region of the 
hepatic or splenic flexure of the colon. These patients are 
depressed, inclined to take gloomy views of life and of their 
own affairs ; often irritable and wanting in resolution, and, 
as a rule, they sleep badly. The pulse is feeble, soft, and 
compressible. The tongue is large, flabby, and pale, slightly 
coated or clean, and usually indented at the edges by the teeth. 

General Want of Tone. — This condition of affairs, indi- 
cative of general as well as local want of tone, comes on 
for the most part gradually. It may follow upon some 
form of gastritis ; it may be brought on more rapidly by 
some great and sudden change in the habits, as from an 
active, open-air life to a sedentary one, or it may be here- 
ditary. No one who has given attention to digestive dis- 
orders can fail to have been struck by the frequency with 
which feebleness of digestion is handed down from parent 
to child, not necessarily in the same- form, but often in 
a greater degree. Whilst in private practice we find that 
this atonic dyspepsia comes on gradually in those who per- 
sistently disregard the ordinary laws of health, by neglect 
of proper exercise, by hurrying over meals, and by eating 
and drinking more than their bodily expenditure warrants, 
— in hospital practice, on the other hand, the most common 
causes are found to be deficiency of proper food and an 
undue indulgence in tea. 

Appearance of Stomach. — The appearances of the stomach 
are quite different from those in cases where irritability is 
the chief symptom. The stomach looks flabby and relaxed ; 
the surface is paler than usual, smoother, more moist, and 
covered with a layer of mucus. 



14 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

In the class of cases now under consideration the regula- 
tion of diet, as a means of cure, plays a not less important 
part than in those where, owing to the very sensitive condi- 
tion of the mucous membrane, its effects are at once more 
strikingly apparent. Moreover, since this atonic state of 
the stomach is associated with flabbiness and want of tone 
of the system, the general condition has to be improved 
by exercise and by every means that will help to brace 
up the patient. 

Not so much depends upon the kind of food that is taken, 
provided it is simple, as upon the way in which meals are 
arranged and the circumstances under which the patient 
takes his food. If he eats hurriedly, and especially if he 
sits down to meals hot and exhausted, the inevitable discom- 
fort follows. An alteration, and adaptation to circumstances 
of the food and hours of eating, will in many cases effect a 
cure without much change in the diet itself. 

Morbid Ideas and Introspection. — A considerable number 
of these patients are very much inclined to dwell upon their 
own feelings and symptoms, and to think too much about 
what food seems to agree with them and what does not. 
It is better that they should not take their meals alone, and 
it is of great consequence that their minds should be occu- 
pied with some healthy interest which will prevent them 
from turning in upon themselves. 

Bathing and Exercise. — The first direction to them will 
be to have a morning bath, tepid or cold, according to the 
age of the patient, the state of his circulation, and the season 
of the year. The rubbing which follows, and if necessary 
to produce a good reaction also precedes, the bath is not the 
least important part. These patients should not attempt 
to do much before breakfast, though there is no harm in 
their being in the open air for a short time before the 
morning meal. Any hard exercise, however, such as 
tennis or a long walk at that time, will only exhaust and 
depress. If exercise is to be taken in the morning, it 



A TONIC DYSPEPSIA . 1 5 

should be preceded by a light early breakfast, say a cup 
of cocoa and a slice of bread and butter, or a glass of milk 
and a biscuit. Many patients, especially the more delicate 
ones, with small reserve stores to draw upon, find that they 
cannot take early morning exercise without feeling tired, 
drowsy, headachy, and, as they often express it, " good for 
nothing " all the day. The reason is, that they go for too 
long a time without food. They have had nothing to eat 
for some twelve or fourteen hours, and they are surprised 
that if they take active exercise before breakfast they are 
exhausted for the rest of the day. Let such people try the 
plan of taking a light, early breakfast, after which they 
will enjoy and benefit by a morning walk, a ride, or a 
game of lawn-tennis. Here let it be remarked that one 
of the best, if not the very best, exercise for the "atonic" 
is a morning ride ; it promotes the activity of the liver 
and obviates the tendency to constipation. If the patient 
is not accustomed to this exercise, it should be commenced 
gently, and gradually extended from an hour to an hour 
and a half, or two hours if time permits ; being preceded, 
of course, by a small, light meal as already indicated, and 
followed by the bath and breakfast. 

Dietary. — Passing on to the details of the diet, the rules 
should be, simple food, plainly cooked, no large meals, and 
consequently no long intervals between the meals. 

Breakfast. — Boiled sole, whiting, or flounder; or a slice 
of fat fried bacon, or a lightly-boiled egg. A slice of dry 
toast with a little butter, or of brown bread (not new) and 
butter. 

Beverage. — One cup of cocoa, or of milk and water, sipped 
after eating. 

Luncheon. — Chicken or game, with bread, and a little 
tender well-boiled vegetable, such as spinach, vegetable 
marrow, or young French beans. 

Beverage. — Half a tumblerful of water, sipped after 
eating. 



1 6 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Afternoon Tea. — A cup of cocoa, or of weak tea with 
milk, and a slice of brown bread and butter. 

Dinner. — (Two courses only.) 

Fish of the kinds allowed for breakfast, with melted 
butter. 

A plain entree, or game, with a little mashed potato or 
potato chips. 

For sweets and dessert, a plain biscuit will suffice ; or, 

A slice of any tender meat, such as saddle or loin' of 
mutton, or the thick part of an underdone chop ; a little 
mashed or grated potato. 

A spoonful or two of any plain milk-pudding, to which 
may be added some stewed fruit. 

Beverage. — Half a tumblerful of water, with from one to 
two tablespoonfuls of spirit. 

It will be observed that the quantity of fluid entering 
into the above diet is very limited, and this restriction in 
liquids must be impressed upon the patient as an important 
element in the dietary. The reason for this is apparent 
when we recollect what the condition of the mucous mem- 
brane is, and how that condition interferes with rapid absorp- 
tion. If a quantity of fluid be taken at meals — for example, 
soup, or even plain water — digestion is much delayed, fer- 
meutative changes take place, and the results are flatulence 
and discomfort. If, however, these rules regarding liquids 
be made too strict, the tendency to constipation is favoured, 
the evacuations becoming scanty and difficult. This may be 
overcome by giving half a pint of hot water to be sipped at 
bedtime, and a like quantity of cold water the first thing in 
the morning. If these means do not suffice to obviate the 
constipation, and the dietary already contains a fair allowance 
of brown bread, fresh vegetables, and stewed fruit, massage 
to the abdomen should be regularly carried out. Failing 
all other means, a dinner-pill containing aloes, rhubarb, or 
cascara with aromatics must be given. 

Alcohol should be very much restricted, or not given at all. 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH. 17 

If used, the best form is old spirit (sss. — gi) in a little 
water, sipped after food, or in the hot water at night. 



Ulcer of the Stomach. 

While it is time that the symptoms of ulcer of the stomach 
vary greatly in intensity and urgency, the slighter cases, 
equally with the more severe ones, demand careful dietetic 
treatment. 

Rapidly Fatal Cases. — Cases that commence in an in- 
sidious way, with obscure symptoms, often go on rapidly to 
perforation and a fatal termination. It is difficult to say 
whether in the very speedily fatal cases any treatment could 
avail to stop the necrotic process and avert a fatal issue ; 
but in other cases we have the satisfaction of knowing that 
much may be done by regulation of the diet not only to 
prevent suffering, but in many instances to effect a cure. 

Rest Most Important. — Eest is the chief part of the treat- 
ment generally adopted in dealing with an ulcer in any 
other situation, and the same principle applies to the stomach 
no less than to other parts of the body. Not only must the 
patient be kept quiet, and warned against fatigue, over- 
exertion, and strain, but in severe cases absolute rest in bed 
must be enjoined, at least until the urgent symptoms have 
subsided. 

Physiological Rest. — Without such precautions physio- 
logical rest for the stomach will be of little avail. The two 
forms of rest must be united if the treatment is to be 
successful. Moreover, the patient's supplies of nourishment 
being somewhat limited, the saving of strength obtaiued by 
rest in bed is often very important, and by keeping the 
stomach itself at rest, as far as that is practicable and 
possible, the best chance is afforded for the healing of the 
ulcer. It is not always necessary, indeed it may not always 
be desirable, to forbid all food by the mouth ; but it must 
be remembered that the introduction of any food, even the 

fi 



t8 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

blandest, excites the circulation in the stomach and pro- 
duces an increased supply of blood, thus tending to irrita- 
tion of the ulcer, besides stimulating the secretion of gastric 
juice. 

Causes of Pain. — The acid, gastric juice, too, coming in 
contact with the tender surface of the ulcer, causes pain, 
and often sets up vomiting, which of all things is most 
to be avoided. Pain is also kept up and increased by 
anything that increases the peristaltic movements of the 
stomach ; hence the coarser the food and the greater the 
quantity, the more the movement and the greater the pain, 
which in such circumstances usually lasts until the offending 
mass is rejected. 

Coarse and Bulky Food to be Avoided. — All rough and 
bulky food must therefore be forbidden, and the patient 
must be restricted both in the kind of food that he takes 
and in the quantity taken at a time. The food must be 
of the mildest kind — pulp and pap, or fluid given in small 
amounts at short intervals, and the smaller the quantity that 
can be borne at a time, the shorter must necessarily be the 
intervals between the supplies. 

Necessity for Food being taken very Slowly and in Small 
Quantities: Alkalies. — Another important point is the way 
in which food is taken. The sensitive stomach is much better 
able to retain food with comfort if it be taken very slowly 
than if it be hurriedly gulped down. In writing out 
directions for such cases it is best to insist upon all food 
being taken by teaspoonfuls, and that, for example, instead 
of attempting to take a draught of even simple cold water, 
it should be slowly sipped, or small pieces of ice should be 
sucked. "When there is no dislike to milk it should form 
a main part of the dietary, as milk and soda water, or 
peptonised milk, or in the form of bread or rusks and 
milk. Where acidity is troublesome, lime water, prepared 
chalk, or magnesia is a good counteractive, and when added 
to the milk, prevents its curdling into hard masses, which 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH. 19 

so often set up vomiting. Beef-tea or broth thickened with 
some farinaceous substance, such as powdered biscuits, baked 
flour, or a prepared farinaceous food, may be given two or 
three times a day. Malt extracts are very valuable addi- 
tions to the dietary, and can be used either alone or in 
milk. Sometimes skimmed milk, though, of course, not so 
nutritious, or even butter milk, agrees best. 

Nutrient Enemata. — When, however, a sufficiency of 
nourishment, even with the greatest economy of bodily waste, 
cannot be taken by the mouth in the way indicated above, 
without too greatly curtailing the periods of rest, nutrient 
enemata must be resorted to in addition. In the severe 
forms, where the symptoms are urgent — for example, during 
the occurrence of haematemesis — all food by the mouth must 
be stopped and reliance placed for the support of life upon 
nutrient enemata alone. With due precautions as to warmth 
and rest, not only may life be sustained in this way, but even 
the weight of the body maintained for a considerable time. 
Treatment is rendered much more difficult in those cases 
where nutrient enemata are not well borne ; but seeing the 
importance there is for keeping up the patient's strength, 
they should not lightly be given up, and every means should 
be tried to secure their toleration. In some extreme cases 
inunction with oils has been found useful in tiding over an 
anxious time and aiding other means of support. 

Small Doses of Sedative before Food. — In connection with 
the dietetic treatment of gastric ulcer, it should be men- 
tioned that not infrequently where great irritability of the 
stomach exists and there is difficulty in getting food re- 
tained, a very few minims of laudanum or of liquor morphias 
in a teaspoonful of water, given shortly before the food, 
prevents vomiting. As has already been remarked, vomit- 
ing is of all things most to be avoided. It tries the patient 
sorely and greatly interferes with the healing of the 
ulcer. 

Treatment of Constipation. — The constipation that is so 



20 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

commonly present in cases of gastric ulcer cannot be treated 
dietetically, and is best met by simple enemata. 

Importance of an Accurate Record. — It is necessary in 
most cases of this kind to be precise in giving directions to 
the nurse in charge of the patient, and the physician will 
do well to have an accurate record kept of the measured 
amounts of food given and the exact times at which they 
are taken. By this means the total quantity taken in 
twenty-four hours can be at once seen, and the intervals 
can likewise be noted. 

(a.) Dietary in a Severe Case : Nutrient Enemata. — In a 
severe case the quantity of liquid food given at one time to 
be sipped by the patient should not exceed from two to 
three ouuces, and the intervals should not be greater than 
two hours. In this way about two pints of fluid will be 
taken in the day, and if it be mainly milk with some 
farinaceous material, such as baked flour, arrowroot, pow- 
dered biscuits, or a prepared food like Mellin's or Allen and 
Hanbury's, it conveys a fair quantity of nutriment, and 
may be for the time sufficient without nutrient enemata. 
If, however, the milk, before it will agree with the patient, 
has to be much diluted with soda-water or lime-water, the 
nutritive value being thereby so much reduced, nutrient 
enemata should be given twice in the day, say morning and 
evening. 

Predigested Foods, per Enema. — The best forms of 
nourishment to be given in this way are prepared and 
predigested substances, such as peptonised milk, peptonised 
gruel, beef peptones, malt extracts, and prepared farinaceous 
foods, with, if necessary, from two teaspoonfuls to one table- 
spoonful of brandy. It is hardly necessary to point out 
that, in order to be well retained, the enema must be small 
in bulk, the temperature lukewarm, and that it must pass 
gently and slowly into the bowel. A heaped tablespoonful 
of a prepared malted food, with a little milk and enough 
hot water to sufficiently raise the temperature, and to make 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH. 21 

the whole quantity up to one and a half ounces ; or two tea- 
spoonfuls of beef peptonoids in two or three tables poonfu Is 
of warm water, are typical examples. 

Addition of Opium to Enemata. — If less than from two to 
three ounces, perhaps only a couple of tablespoon fu Is, taken 
by the mouth, can be borne at a time without causing pain 
and sickness, then the amount that can be tolerated, even 
if only from one to two tablespoon fuls, should be given 
every hour. Three or four nutrient enemata should be given 
in the day to supplement. Sometimes tenderness and irrita- 
tion of the rectum and anus prove troublesome, and render 
this treatment difficult, but usually fifteen drops of laudanum 
added to the enema, or an occasional opium suppository, 
remove the difficulty. 

(b.) Dietary. — In less severe cases, and, in the absence of 
urgent symptoms, also during the convalescent stages of the 
more severe cases, it will suffice to l-estrict the patient to 
the blandest articles of diet, food being given in four small 
meals, with two little intermediate supplies, thus : — 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. — A breakfast-cupful of bread and milk, 
or of rusks and milk, or a cupful of cocoa made with milk, 
with toast thoroughly soaked in it. 

10.30. — A good teacupful of beef -tea or of broth, 
thickened with some farinaceous material. 

1 o'clock. — A cupful of plain puree, or later on, in con- 
valescence, a piece of boiled sole, with the inside of a slice of 
bread, neither new nor stale. 

4 o'clock. — A cup of milk or of peptonised cocoa. 

6 o'clock. — A meal like the midday one. 

9 o'clock. — A cupful of milk thickened, or of Mellin's 
food. 

Note. — All the food to be taken very slowly, and neither 
hot nor cold. 

A teaspoonful of malt extract added to the milk twice 
daily is most useful. 

During the night, if awake, the patient should have handy 



22 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

by his bedside some diluted milk or peptonised gruel, in a 
covered jug kept warm under a cosey, and of that a cupful 
may be sipped. 

Gradual Enlargement of Diet. — Gradually, as convales- 
cence goes on and the patient gets about a little, the dietary 
may be enlarged by the addition of sago, tapioca, or macca- 
roni puddings, custards, eggs beaten up in milk or very 
lightly boiled, white fish boiled, panada of chicken, and 
good broth ; but still the rule should be a small quantity at 
a time, and nothing hard, bulky, or difficult of digestion for 
a considerable time after all symptoms have subsided. 

Danger of Relapse. — When relapses occur, as they not 
infrequently do, they are almost always traceable to errors 
in diet. It is important to remember that in gastric ulcer 
the powers of digestion are but slowly regained, and haste 
in returning to ordinary diet is almost sure to retard con- 
valescence. 

We have post-mortem evidence in abundance to show that 
fresh mischief has often been lighted up either at the site 
of the original ulcer or in its immediate neighbourhood, and 
followed by fatal haemorrhage, simply by errors in diet. 



Cancer of the Stomach. 

Much that has been said in relation to diet in cases of 
gastric ulcer applies equally to cancer of the stomach, but in 
some important points, which have a bearing upon dietetic 
treatment, the two diseases present different symptoms. 

Dilatation of Stomach in Cancer. — Dilatation of the 
stomach, for example, although occurring in a certain pro- 
portion of cases of ulcer from thickening and contraction at 
the pylorus, is much more common in cancer, owing to the 
frequency with which the growth causes pyloric stricture. 
Again, until the pyloric obstruction becomes marked, there 
is often less acidity present than in ulcer. 



CANCER OF THE STOMACH. 23 

Character of Pain. — Pain, likewise, is more constant and 
continuous in cancer, and it does not bear the same relation 
to the taking of food as it does in gastric ulcer, being often 
present when the stomach is empty. It is more of a dull, 
aching character than in ulcer, but the taking of food may 
brin 2 on an exacerbation often referred to the back, and 
resembling a paroxysm of neuralgia. 

Loss of Appetite. — What with the loss of appetite, that 
is so constant a symptom, and the fear of increasing the 
pain, patients are often afraid to take much food. Others, 
again, find little difficulty so long as the food is simple and 
more or less fluid. In these cases, however, violent attacks 
of pain, lasting sometimes for hours, may occur at night 
quite independently of the taking of food. 

Loss of appetite is usually a marked and early symptom 
in cancer, but exceptional cases occur when the cardiac 
orifice is involved, where the trouble is not so much disin- 
clination for food as difficulty in swallowing. Up to a 
certain point in such cases there may not only not be much 
loss of appetite, but hunger may be distressing. The food 
does not reach the stomach, and speedily regurgitates 
unaltered. Eapid loss of flesh and strength are the result, 
unless the patient be supported by predigested nutrient 
enemata, as the only food that can pass into the stomach is 
a very small quantity of liquid at a time. 

Widespread Degeneration of Stomach. — Another im- 
portant point in regard to cancer of the stomach is, that 
the tissues of that organ, beyond the limits of the growth, 
are involved in widespread degenerative changes ; hence 
secretion and absorption are very seriously interfered with, 
and nutrition thereby so much the more hampered. Pro- 
gressive, usually rapid, emaciation is a characteristic of the 
disease, which no dieting can counteract ; but the patient 
may be helped and made more comfortable by the use of 
nutrient prepared enemata, and the extensive disorganisation 
of the stomach, already referred to, is an indication for the 



24 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

use of prepared foods and peptonised milk, &c., which will 
pass through the stomach easily, and be acted upon lower 
down the intestinal canal. This method of feeding in these 
cases often gives great relief to the urgent symptoms. 

Diet Similar to that in Gastric Ulcer. — For details of diet 
the reader is referred to p. 17, where, under the heading 
of Ulcer of the Stomach, the particulars are given. The 
order of things must, however, be reversed in so far that 
the diet recommended in the later or convalescent period of 
ulcer is the one suitable to the earliest periods of a case of 
carcinoma; and since cancer always runs an unfavourable 
course, the directions which apply to cases of severe ulcera- 
tion (p. 20) are those to be followed in the later stages 
of cancer. These are, in brief, liquids in small quantities, 
at frequent intervals, the length of which will be determined 
by the amount that can be well borne at one time, and 
predigested nutrient enemata, given in the manner stated 
on p. 20. 

HjEMATEMESIS. 

It is not necessary to give in detail a diet for cases of 
hasmatemesis, since in the great majority of cases serious 
haemorrhage from the stomach is due to either ulcer or 
cancer of that organ, and in speaking of these affections (pp. 
17, 22) the diet during the continuance of haematemesis has 
been mentioned. It is sufficient to repeat here, that during 
the occurrence of haemorrhage, and more particularly if it 
should persist, all food by the mouth should be stopped, and 
reliance placed upon nutrient prepared enemata to support 
the patient's strength. 

Inflammation of the Stomach (Acute and Subacute 
Gastritis : Acute Gastric Catarrh). 

The heading of this section will of itself indicate the some- 
what wide range of conditions that are intended to be in- 



ACUTE AND SUBACUTE GASTRITIS. 25 

eluded in it. It seems best to group these together, con« 
sidering them, for our present purpose, as different degrees 
■of the inflammatory process rather than as different affec- 
tions. 

Pathology. — The post-mortem appearances founl in the 
stomach are often indefinite and misleading, since no organ 
is more prone to undergo softening and other changes after 
death. Hence these morbid appearances are not all to Be 
accepted as evidence of pre-existing gastritis. On this 
account the observations of Dr. Beaumont on the living sub- 
ject in the person of the Canadian, St. Martin, are most 
valuable as evidences of at least the early inflammatory 
changes taking place in the gastric mucous membrane. The 
earliest noticeable alterations were reddening of the mucous 
membrane, which appeared irregularly congested, with dimin- 
ished secretion of gastric juice and the presence of a large 
quantity of viscid mucus. This state of matters increased ; 
the patches, besides being more numerous, were larger, and 
some of them became aphthous ; thick ropy mucus and a 
muco-purulent fluid tinged with blood took the place of the 
natural secretions. In the instance of St. Martin these ap- 
pearances gradually subsided under the influence of proper 
diet and medicine, but where such a favourable result does 
not take place, we can readily imagine that they are the 
precursors of more serious lesions, namely, hasmorrhages, 
superficial abrasions, and ulcerations. 

Gastritis from Irritants. — Cases of poisoning by corrosives 
and irritants, where the quantity taken and the intensity of 
the inflammation are not sufficient rapidly to destroy life, 
are naturally included in this group, as in their after-treat- 
ment they require dieting similar to that suitable for other 
forms of gastritis. It is likewise manifest that there will 
be considerable variety in the intensity of the symptoms in 
different cases falling under the above headings. 

Considering the complex structure of the stomach, its 
functional activity, and the manner in which it is frequently 



26 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

treated by its owner, acute gastritis, apart from the effect 
of direct irritants, is not of so common occurrence as we 
might expect. 

Predisposition. — Individual predisposition, either inherited 
or acquired, is often to be traced, and in such persons in- 
flammatory gastric attacks may be set up by causes that in 
others would have no effect. Repeated attacks undoubtedly 
render the subject of them more and more liable to a re- • 
currence of the disorder from slight causes, and any acute 
fever or debilitating illness is likewise a predisposing cause 
— probably partly because both the quantity and the quality 
of the gastric juice are then deficient. If in such con- 
ditions of general weakness care be not exercised as to the 
quantity and kind of the food taken, the gastric juice not 
having sufficient activity, fermentation and decomposition 
of food will result, and gastric catarrh will ensue. Thus, 
too large a quantity of even digestible food may on this 
account act in the same manner as a less amount of indi- 
gestible food does. Food, also, that in itself is not indi- 
gestible, may become so when imperfectly masticated, in 
which condition it is practically impervious to the action of 
the gastric juice. 

Effects of Alcohol: Chronic Diseases: Chill. — Undiluted 
alcohol, a large quantity of condiments and spices, food that 
has already begun to decompose before it is taken, and sub- 
stances that retard digestion, such as narcotics, may each 
and all be the exciting cause of acute gastritis or gastric 
catarrh. Again, in the later stages of some chronic diseases 
— for example, in heart disease and cirrhosis of liver, where 
a backtide of blood keeps up congestion of the stomach — 
gastritis may be readily induced. A sudden chill in those 
who are predisposed to the disorder may of itself bring on 
an attack. Over-care in regard to food is considered by 
some to be a predisposing cause ; but may we not rather 
believe that in these persons there is an inherent weakness 
of stomach, that experience prompts the carefulness, and 



ACUTE GASTRIC CATARRH. 27 

that in reality delicacy is the cause of the susceptibility to 
acute gastric troubles? 

Sthenic and Asthenic Cases. — Coming now to the question 
of treatment, we may, for practical purposes, divide the 
patients into two classes — (1) the robust or plethoric in- 
dividuals, in whom the acute gastric disorder is the result of 
some irregularity in eating and drinking ; (2) those who 
are weakly and in feeble health, perhaps the subjects of 
some one of the chronic diseases already alluded to. In 
the latter, acute or prolonged gastric disturbances are a 
serious complication. 

Fasting". — In the sthenic class abstinence is the first 
thing to be enforced, both as regards food and drink. Eest 
is what the stomach needs to regain its normal condition. 
Even the mildest forms of food cause a certain amount of 
"hypergemia in the stomach, and so tend to keep up the 
catarrhal condition. It is, therefore, best to advise the 
patient to fast for, say, twenty-four hours, more or less, 
according to circumstances, giving only small pieces of ice 
to be sucked or sips of iced water. Following upon this 
will come milk diluted with lime-water or with soda-water, 
in small quantities at short intervals. 

Nutrient Enemata. — If there be any cause for uneasiness 
as regards keeping up the strength of the patient owing 
to the fever that may be present, or the persistency of the 
attack, then nutrient prepared enemata should be given in 
place of risking more food by the mouth. The question of 
nutrient enemata is more fully entered into in the section 
on gastric ulcer (p. 20), to which the reader is referred 
for details. 

Prepared and Predigested Foods. — The same indications 
for the use of prepared foods hold good as strongly in cases 
of gastritis as in gastric ulcer, and their use should be con- 
tinued for some time, until the powers of digestion return 
more fully. The addition of brandy to the enemata or not 
will depend upon the symptoms in each individual case, but 



28 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

very frequently from ten to fifteen drops of laudanum are 
useful in allaying irritability, and securing the retention of 
the enema. 

The prominent point in the treatment, that of giving rest 
to the stomach, must not be lost sight of ; and in proportion 
as danger to the patient from asthenia becomes apparent, 
so sustaining measures are called for, and these will consist 
for the most part of nutrient enemata of the kinds already 
specified. 

Vomiting'. — When vomiting is continued and severe, caus- 
ing great exhaustion, it may sometimes be checked by giving, 
at frequent intervals, a few drops of brandy in a teaspoonful 
of iced water, or small quantities of champagne, also iced. 
In other cases nothing but sedatives, of which the best is 
morphia, given hypodermically, are of any .avail in allaying 
sickness. 

Care in Diet during Convalescence. — During convalescence 
the greatest caution is necessary in allowing the patient to 
return to ordinary diet. When fermentation with acidity- 
is troublesome, and cannot be controlled by giving the 
sulpho-carbolate of soda or glycerine of carbolic acid, it is 
well to limit the amount of farinaceous substances in the 
diet, and to give broths, good beef -tea, panadas, jellies, &c, 
in addition to milk with alkalies. Where acidity is not so 
troublesome, farinaceous materials may be given more freely, 
and may, indeed, often form the staple of the diet. For 
further details of quantities see diet (p. 21) for convales- 
cence from jrastric ulcer. 



CHAPTER II. 
DISEASES OP THE INTESTINAL TRACT. 

GENERA! Contents: Constipation — Diarrhoea —Acute Enteritis: Acute 
Gastrointestinal Catarrh — Inflammation of the Colon — Dysentery : 
Acute Peritonitis — Typhlitis and Perityphlitis. 

Constipation. 

While, undoubtedly, the recognised rule that the bowels 
should be evacuated once every day ordinarily holds good, 
there are certainly not a few persons found whose bowels 
act only once in two or three days, or even at much longer 
intervals, and whose health nevertheless is perfectly good. 

Habit. — It is well to bear this habit or idiosyncrasy in 
mind when such cases come before us, because where it 
has become fixed we shall do them little good, and perhaps 
make them very uncomfortable, by treatment directed towards 
altering the habit. Even if we succeed in establishing for 
a time more frequent defascation, reaction will sooner or 
later follow, and the bowels will relapse into a state more 
sluggish than before our interference. 

Effects of Diet. — Different habits of diet have a distinct 

bearing upon the fulness and frequency of the evacuations, 

and .any change in diet that may have occurred should be 

taken into account in dealing with a particular case. In 

those who are small eaters, and whose food consists mainly 

of such articles of diet as are concentrated and leave but 

little residue, there is, of course, very little waste material 

to be thrown out by the bowels ; hence constipation is apt to 

be induced. The indication clearly is to put the patient on 

29 



30 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

a diet more bulky and less nutritious ; but in the case of 
these patients care must be exercised to prevent such an 
alteration of diet disordering their digestion, especially at 
first, and the change should be gradually effected. 

Oily Matters. — In cases where the faeces are lumpy and the 
mucous membrane dry, an addition to the diet of some olea- 
ginous materials will of itself often suffice to put matters right. 
Cream, butter, salad-oil, &c, may be given with advantage. 

Neglect and Irregularity. — Where through carelessness 
and hurry the habit of regular defaecation has been neglected, 
the necessity of persistent regularity in this important 
matter must be impressed upon the patient, for without it 
all our care in arranging a diet will probably be thrown 
away. In young people this is a frequent cause of con- 
stipation. In girls and women, in addition to neglect in 
this respect, other factors often enter into the causation ; 
for example, the movements of the intestines are often 
hampered by want ef freedom in dress and by insufficient 
exercise. 

Sedentary Habits. — -Sedentary habits undoubtedly con- 
duce to inactivity of the bowels, and may lead to chronic 
constipation where the tendency already exists. A variety 
of exercise is requisite, and exercise that involves increased 
action of the abdominal muscles, such as riding, is much 
more efficacious than merely walking. On the other hand, 
an undue amount of exercise may induce temporary consti- 
pation, and excessive perspiration sometimes has the same 
effect ; but these conditions right themselves, as a rule, 
without requiring special dietetic or medicinal treatment. 

Catarrh. — Chronic intestinal catarrh and other conditions, 
followed by impaired muscular tone in the intestinal walls, 
must be recognised as causes of chronic constipation. Loss 
of general muscular power, and, in women, relaxed condi- 
tions of the abdomen following pregnancy, must also be 
taken into account. In many of these cases systematic 
massage of the abdomen is invaluable, when conjoined with 



CONSTIPATION. 31 

dietetic means, in relieving constipation and in bringing 
about a more active state of the bowels. Under its use the 
tone of the intestinal muscular coat and of the abdominal 
muscles is greatly improved, the secretions are increased, 
and regularity of action is gradually established. 

Care in Changing the Diet. — In regard to dietetic means 
in general, it may be said again, care must be exercised in 
arranging a diet so as not to disorder the digestive organs. 
Although a certain proportion of innutritious material in 
the diet is desirable if the patient has been accustomed to 
take concentrated food, leaving little residue, it will not do 
to change suddenly to a bulky T dietary. The introduction of 
fruit, green vegetables, porridge, brown bread, &c.,must 
be made by degrees, so that the digestive organs may get 
accustomed to the change. At the same time, regular and 
sufficient attention to the calls of nature must be inculcated 
as being a means of the utmost importance. Articles of 
diet that disagree and disturb digestion should not be per- 
severed with at first, although perhaps later on they may 
be gradually introduced and may come to be taken with 
advantage. In the early stages of treatment it may be 
necessary also to use some aperient ; for example, Cascara 
sagrada, in small and gradually diminishing doses to aid 
the diet. 

Fruit. — For some people raw ripe fruits do excellently, 
and can be taken early in the morning or at any time on 
an empty stomach, which adds to their efficacy ; but with 
others they disagree, and where dyspepsia is a prominent 
symptom they are contra-indicated. These persons, how- 
ever, can often digest cooked fruits, especially when pre- 
pared with an alkali, as thus the acidity is done away with. 
Amongst preserved fruits, stewed prunes and figs may be 
mentioned as decidedly laxative, and so also are raisins. 
Coffee and cocoa favour the action of the bowels more than 
tea, and some people find help from a glass of bitter ale 
or of cider. Many men regard a pipe or even a cigarette 



32 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

after breakfast as conducive to regularity in the action of 
the bowels, but probably this is at least partly accounted 
for by the fact that in such circumstances the morning 
duties are not hurried over, and the bowels get a better 
chance of being fully relieved. 

Hot or Cold Water. — A simple and frequently efficacious 
aid to regularity of the bowels is to sip slowly a half-pint 
of cold or of hot water early in the morning. If that does 
not suffice, the addition of a like quantity taken in the 
same way before going to bed at night will often produce 
the desired effects. 

In sketching out the details of diet more exactly, we may 
divide these patients into two classes, namely, those in whom 
dyspepsia is not a prominent symptom, and those in whom 
it is markedly present. 

Dietary in Simple Constipation. — For simple constipation 
without dyspepsia the following will be suitable : — 

Early in the morning some ripe fruit, such as an orange 
or an apple. 

Breakfast. — Well-boiled oatmeal porridge and milk, fresh 
fish or fat bacon, brown bread and butter, coffee with milk. 

Luncheon. — A slice of cold meat, bread, salad (dressed 
with oil). Ripe or cooked fruits. 

Dinner. — Soup or fish ; any variety of tender meat ; well- 
boiled green vegetables, and a little potato mashed with 
cream. Fig-pudding, apple charlotte, or plain stewed fruit 
with cream. A biscuit and butter. Dessert. — Ripe fruit, 
French plums, or dried figs. A cup of black coffee, 
without sugar. 

Before going to bed, a glass of plain or of aerated 
water. 

Exercise. — A sufficiency of exercise varied in form — 
walking exercise only often does not answer — should be 
enjoined in these cases ; and if for any reason this can- 
not be taken, massage of the abdomen should be prac- 
tised. 



CONSTIPA TION. 33 

Dietary in Constipation Complicated by Dyspepsia. — In 
the second class of cases, where dyspepsia complicates matters, 
we have to be very careful not to aggravate this by altera- 
tions and enlargements of the ordinaiy dietary. The early 
morning fruit sometimes disagrees, raw vegetables are 
difficult of digestion, and brown bread irritates the sensitive 
mucous membrane. 

A glass of water sipped the first thing in the morning, if 
taken slowly, will probably cause no discomfort, especially if 
it be hot instead of cold. If oatmeal is found difficult of 
digestion, porridge made of whole wheat-meal may be sub- 
stituted, and coarse brown bread had better be avoided. 
Salads and cabbage frequently cause flatulence in these 
patients, and so defeat the objects in view ; but young 
spinach, tender brussels sprouts, and cauliflower can be 
taken with impunity. 

It is obvious that in dealing with this class of cases, we 
must feel our way gradually, until we learn what the diges- 
tive organs in the particular instance before us can accom- 
plish, and we must regulate the diet accordingly. It is 
safer, and likely to lead to a more speedy cure in the long 
run, if we begin cautiously, and do not proceed more rapidly 
than the digestive powers can bear. 

Such a dietary would be in detail as follows :— 

7.30 a.m. — A half-pint of water sipped very slowly. 

Breakfast, 8.30. — A small plate of porridge with a little 
cream or new milk. 

9 o'clock. — Some bread, not new, and butter ; a small 
cup of coffee. A few strawberries, grapes, or other ripe 
fruits in their season. 

Or 9 o'clock. — If porridge is not taken, a slice of fat 
bacon or of ham, or a piece of fresh fish, or chicken, or game, 
should be taken along with the bread and butter and coffee, 
followed by fruit. 

1 o'clock, Luncheon. — A slice of any tender meat with 

C 



34 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

bread, and a little well-boiled green vegetable. Beverage, 
a glass of water. 

If meat is taken at breakfast, luncheon may consist of 
shape or pudding and stewed fruit, with bread or biscuit 
and butter, followed by ripe fruit. 

Tea, 4.30. — A cup of weak tea with milk, and a slice 
of thin bread and butter, or a cup of cocoa. 

7-7.30, Dinner (two courses). — Fish or meat and a plain 
pudding. Beverage, a glass of water. 

In the foregoing dietaries, alcohol has not been included, 
as it cannot be considered a necessary addition, although 
in a certain proportion of cases a glass of wine at luncheon 
and at dinner undoubtedly seems to favour regular action 
of the bowels. 

Melliris Food or Cream. — For invalids troubled with con- 
stipation, a breakfast-cupful of Mellin's food is often a 
sufficient laxative 

In young children a teaspoonful of cream added to one or 
two of their supplies of milk, or a teacupful of chicken- 
or mutton-broth, will often obviate a tendency to con- 
stipation. Mellin's food in barley-water or dissolved in the 
broth is likewise a most useful addition in these cases. 



DlARRHCEA. 

In all cases of continued relaxation of the bowels, treat- 
ment by diet occupies an important place, and the dieting 
of the patient is one of the first questions claiming attention. 
In fact, where diarrhoea is dependent on local causes, regu- 
lation of the diet alone will usually suffice to effect a cure, 
in the absence, of course, of actual organic lesions. 

For the present purpose it is not necessary to enter into 
a detailed classification of the different forms of diarrhoea 
and their causes, but one or two distinctions should be 
emphasised. 



DIARRHCEA. 35 

(a.) Diarrhoea of Bright's Disease, &e. — It need hardly be 
remarked that diarrhoeas dependent upon and occurring dur- 
ing the progress of such maladies as chronic Bright's disease, 
cirrhosis of the liver, tuberculosis, &c, must be looked 
upon as part of the disease, not as a separate condition, 
although palliative treatment may be required. These forms 
of diarrhoea hardly come under consideration by themselves, 
though some modification of diet, based upon the general 
principles of ti'eatment of diarrhoea, may be desirable. 

(b.) Nervous Diarrhoea. — Another form of diarrhoea is that 
set up by causes acting through the nervous system. Per- 
sons of unstable nervous system are most subject to this 
form, and in them such causes as sudden emotion or excite- 
ment may induce temporary relaxation of the bowels. If 
indigestion be present, as it often is in these individuals, 
the tendency to diarrhoea is much increased, and hence the 
main object to be kept in view in dieting them is to raise, 
if possible, the standard of their digestive powers, restrict- 
ing all such articles of diet as tend to worry a sensitive 
nervous system. A great deal may be done for the comfort 
of these patients by putting them upon a very simple diet, 
easily digestible, and not likely to irritate the mucous mem- 
brane of the bowels. This should be particularly attended 
to whenever they have to undergo any severe mental strain ; 
for example, in the case of students going up for an exa- 
mination, and in others of a like disposition when subjected 
to any similar strain. 

('•.) Mucous Diarrhoea. — In cases where much mucus is 
passed with the motions, we conclude that severe irritation 
or actual inflammation of the mucous membrane exists, and 
in these instances much benefit.accrues from careful dieting. 
Farinaceous substances, such as arrowroot, tapioca, or sago, 
with milk, form a suitable diet, and allay the irritation of 
the intestinal mucous membrane. 

(d.) Fatty Diarrhoea. — A rare form of diarrhoea is that 
associated with the passage of large quantities of fatty matter 



36 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

in the motions. The explanation at first sight would seem to 
be an inability on the part of the system to digest fats ; but 
in some cases, at least, the withdrawal of fatty articles of 
diet, and, as far as possible, the withholding of fat-formers, 
have not brought about a diminution in the amount of fat 
passed. On the contrary, instances of recovery from this 
form of diarrhoea are recorded wherein the giving of large 
quantities of olive-oil appear to have had a decidedly bene- 
ficial effect. 

(e.) Temporary Diarrhoea. — In a passing attack of diar- 
rhoea, due to temporary irritation caused by some indigestible 
article of food, the difficulty is usually at an end when the 
bowels have fully emptied themselves, and all that is re- 
quired is to keep the patient quiet and warm, restricting 
him for a few days to a very simple diet, with the avoidance 
of everything difficult of digestion or likely to set up fresh 
irritation. During such an attack the diet should consist of 
milk, with some farinaceous food, such as rice, arrowroot, 
sago, or tapioca, in small quantities at a time, and at short 
intervals. The food should be taken neither hot nor quite 
cold, and where there is much prostration, a tablespoonful 
of brandy should be given with at least every second supply 
of food. 

(/.) Chronic Diarrhoea. — In all cases of chronic diarrhoea 
our ultimate object must be to improve digestion and to raise 
the tone of the general health. It will commonly be found 
that at first, at least, milk and farinaceous foods answer 
best, but in some exceptional cases very tenderly dressed 
meat and eggs are more easily digested. The rule that 
each supply of food should be small, and the interval between 
meals shorter than usual, applies here equally as in acute 
cases. Broths and strong soups usually tend to relax the 
bowels, and are inadmissible for these patients. So also are 
vegetables, except perhaps a mealy potato, but ripe fruits in 
very small quantities often agree well, and form a pleasant 
addition to the dietary. Bael fruit is much used in India 



DIARRHCEA. 37 

in cases of diarrhoea, and on the Continent acorn coffee is 
found efficacious. 

Alcoholic Stimulants. — A limited amount of alcohol is very 
often required, owing to the debility that usually co-exists 
with diarrhoea. It may be given with food in the form 
either of brandy or of a wine containing tannin, such as 
claret, burgundy, or St. Raphael. 

Raw Meat Treatment. — An entirely opposite diet, namely, 
that advocated by Trousseau, consisting of pounded raw 
meat and meat-juice, has been found useful in a class 
of cases where farinaceous food is not well-borne. The 
diarrhoea associated with teething in young children some- 
times yields to this treatment after resisting all other means. 
The pounded meat may be given with a little salt or sugar, 
or in jelly, or it may be strained into beef -tea, and given 
slowly by teaspoonfuls. If this diet does not carry with it 
sufficient liquid, the quantity may be made up by giving 
water with some white of egg in it, and nothing else. 

Coming now to the details of the different diets. 

Dietaries. — (a.) Dietary in Simple Diarrhoea. — As has 
already been said, an attack of temporary diarrhoea, due to 
indigestion, will speedily yield, after the offending substances 
have been removed, to treatment by diet, aided by rest and 
warmth. 

A teacupful of milk with a little arrowroot or an arrow- 
root biscuit powdered in it, milk and lime- water, or milk 
and ground rice with a little cinnamon, may alternate at in- 
tervals of about three hours, with a like quantity of tapioca 
or sago and milk. All these should have the chill taken 
off, but should not be hot, and should be taken very slowly. 

(b.) Dietary in Chronic Diarrhoea. — In all forms of 
chronic diarrhoea, as previously remarked, the quantity of 
food given at a time should be small, and no full meals 
should be taken. 

In a severe case of long standing, directions should be 
given for all the food to be taken very slowly, by tea- 

6 o d 6 3 



38 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

spoonfuls, and at a very moderate temperature, that is, 
neither hot nor cold. 

8 A.M. — A break fast -cupful of rusks or "tops and bottoms" 
in boiled milk. 

10.30. — A teacupful of warm milk, with an arrowroot 
biscuit. 

1 p.m. — Any plain milk-pudding, such as sago, tapioca, 
with an egg in it, or a plain custard. 

4 P.M. — A cupful of peptonised cocoa and milk, or of 
warmed milk, with a biscuit or a rusk. 

6.30 p.m. — A meal similar to the midday one. 

9.30. — A cupful of arrowroot. 

Alternatives will be semolina-porridge, maccaroni-pud- 
ding, prepared farinaceous foods, peptonised milk, and beef 
peptonoids, where these are well-borne. 

With the 10.30 a.m. food give, if required, from a dessert- 
to a tablespoon ful of brandy, and from one to two table- 
spoonfuls at 6.30 or at 1.0 o'clock, and with the last supply 
of food. In other cases a glass of claret, burgundy, or 
St. Raphael at 1.0 and at 6.30 will be suitable. 

As improvement sets in, a cupful of beef-tea, with plenty 
of farinaceous material, such as arrowroot or vermicelli, in it, 
may be substituted for the milk at 10.30 a.m. ; next, plain 
panada of chicken, or a little boiled fish at 1.0 and at 6.30 
may be inh'oduced into the dietary. 

(c.) Dietary in a Mild Case. — For a mild case, or 
during the convalescence of a severe one, the diet should 
be somewhat dry, and breakfast had better be taken in 
bed. 

8 A.M. — An egg, lightly boiled or poached, dry toast with 
a little butter, a small breakfast-cup of cocoa-nibs. 

IO.30. — A cupful of milk and a biscuit. 

I.30. — Chicken or plain panada, bread, and a spoonful 
or two of milk-pudding. A tablespoonful of brandy in a 
half tumblerful of water, or a glass of claret or of bur- 
gundy. 



ACUTE ENTERITIS. 39 

5 o'clock. — A cupful of milk or of cocoa and a small 
biscuit. 

7.30. — A slice of roast or of boiled mutton, or a chop ; 
a very little grated potato and bread, or dry boiled rice ; a 
little of any plain milk-pudding or blanc-mange. The 
same allowance of stimulant as at the midday meal. 

10 P.M. — A cupful of arrowroot, with a tablespoonful of 
brandy stirred in it. 

Note. — To each of the preceding diets, if the meals be 
small, and the total quantity of food taken in the day be 
not sufficient, a cupful of milk (peptonised) or of prepared 
farinaceous food, kept warm under a cosey during the night, 
should be added. 



Acute Enteritis : Ulceration of the Small Bowel : 
Acute Gastro-Intestinal Catarrh. 

When the Stomach is not Implicated. — If inflammation of 
the intestines exists by itself, and the gastric mucous mem- 
brane is but slightly or not at all involved, the diet should 
be selected and arranged so as to throw the main work of 
digestion upon the stomach. The aim must be to give those 
things that will be readily absorbed by the stomach, leaving 
little residue, that thus the intestines may be kept at rest. 
The foods that most fully answer these requirements are 
infusions of meat, meat-jellies, and milk. These should all 
be given diluted, either iced, or at least quite cold, and in 
very small quantities at a time. 

G astro-Enteritis.- — In the great majority of these cases, 
however, the gastric mucous membrane is affected to a 
greater or less extent. "When this is so, the question of diet 
is made so much the more difficult. The essential condi- 
tions of healthy gastric digestion being then also interfered 
with, albuminoids are not well-borne, as they decompose, 
and, by setting up irritation and flatulence, cause additional 
suffering to the patient. On the other hand, however, care 



4 o FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

must be exercised iu the use of ordinary farinaceous sub- 
stances. They, too, are apt to remain iu the bowels un- 
digested, inasmuch as the normal secretions are deficient 
and inactive. It is in such circumstances that prepared 
foods and artificially digested foods come in so usefully. 

Prepared and Peptonised Foods: Ice. — What has been said 
regarding prepared foods in relation to gastric ulcer and 
gastric catarrh holds good in regard to the cases now under 
consideration with even greater force. When the secretions 
of the stomach and of the intestines are both at fault, it is 
of the greatest consequence that the food should be given 
in forms that are easily soluble and readily absorbed. Pep- 
tonised milk, peptonised gruel (with or without milk in it), 
peptonised beef-tea, and soups similarly treated, are all most 
valuable in these cases. As already said, small quantities 
only must be given at a time, and in most cases it is better 
to give the food quite cold, or even iced. Thirst is best 
allayed by giving small pieces of ice to be sucked. 

Nutrient Enemata. — When absolute rest for the stomach 
and bowels is necessary, then nutrient enemata must be 
resorted to. Beef-tea, peptonised, and with some prepared 
farinaceous food added to it, milk-gruel peptonised, meat 
peptones, and preparations of malt, with or without the 
addition of brandy, are typical forms of enemata, that convey 
a maximum of nutriment with a minimum of bulk. (For 
details see section on Gastric Ulcer and section on Prepared 
Foods.) 

Inflammations of the Colon: Typhlitis: Dysentery. 

As in inflammations of the small bowel, so here, in 
inflammatory conditions of the colon, it is of the greatest 
importance that the food should be of such kinds as are 
most readily absorbed, and that leave the least residue in 
the bowel. This helps to secure rest to the bowel, which is 
a step in the direction of cure. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE COLON. 41 

Abstinence from Food. — In recent cases of acute inflam- 
mation without previous weakness, it is well to hold back 
supplies of food altogether for twelve, or even for twenty- 
four hours. By this means time is given for the removal 
of retained irritating substances, and, moreover, rest is 
greatly favoured. If thirst be urgent, it is best allayed 
by giving small pieces of ice to be slowly sucked, or by 
allowing sips of iced water, but no large quantities should 
be permitted. Where it is undesirable to keep the patient 
so long without any food, milk diluted with iced soda- or 
seltzer-water may be given in small quantities at a time, or 
teaspoonfuls of meat-jelly. 

The stomach is less seriously implicated, as a rule, in 
these cases than in those of inflammation of the small 
bowel, and it is fortunate that it is so, since nutrient 
enemata are very much contra-indicated. 

Concentrated Foods. — During the acute stages the diet 
should consist entirely of meat-jellies, strong broths, beef- 
tea with sago, tapioca, or arrowroot ; and milk, with saccha- 
rated solution of lime, or other form of alkali, in it. It is 
hardly necessary to repeat that these must all be given in 
small quantities at a time, and that none of the food should 
be taken hot. 

Liberal Diet in Chronic Dysentery.— In chronic dysentery 
the diet must be very liberal, because these patients are 
generally weak and anasmic, but it must also be of the 
simplest kind, as easy of digestion as possible. Meat of 
the most tender kinds, such as chicken, game, or mutton, 
pounded meat, strong soups, strong beef-tea ; milk with 
alkalies, arrowroot, tapioca, and other farinaceous substances, 
also the prepared farinaceous foods ; peptonised beef-tea 
and peptonised milk-gruel ; eggs beaten up in milk, &c. 
If bread be given, it should be in the form of toast or rusk, 
well soaked in milk or cocoa. 

Alcohol. — Alcoholic stimulants are, as a rule, required, 
and the form will vary with the circumstances of the case, 



42 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

but first on the list will stand brandy, next dry sherry and 
good old port. Brandy or sherry may be combined with 
milk and egg beaten up in the form of egg-flip, or the 
spirit may be added to the prepared farinaceous foods. 

Acute Peritonitis. 

In almost every case of acute peritonitis, the question of 
how to maintain the patient's strength by sufficient nourish- 
ment enters largely into considerations of treatment. 

Necessity fop Rest to the Bowels. — It is absolutely neces- 
sary that the intestines be kept as much at rest as possible. 
The nourishment, therefore, must be in concentrated form, 
so as not to distend the digestive organs, and of such kind 
as to leave little or no residue, thus avoiding as far as 
possible any increase of peristaltic action. 

Avoidance of Vomiting — The difficulty most frequently is 
that food cannot be retained by the stomach, even when 
given in the simplest forms and in very small quantities 
at a time. Vomiting is by all means to be avoided, if it 
be possible, and therefore feeding by the mouth has often 
to be greatly restricted, or altogether abandoned. It has 
already been pointed out, as being most essential, that the 
bulk of the food should be the least possible, and so, where 
the stomach does not reject them, small quantities of strong 
beef-tea, or of beef-jelly iced, or of iced milk, may be given 
at frequent intervals — a spoonful at a time. 

Artificially Digested Foods. — Artificially digested foods 
are very valuable in such circumstances, and greatly help 
1o fulfil the indications of dietetic treatment in these cases. 
Peptonised milk is not palatable, but peptonised milk-gruel 
is much more readily taken, and is highly nutritious (Recipe 
76). Soups, beef-tea, jellies, and shapes can be pre- 
pared in the same way, and form useful varieties (Recipes 
77, 78). Two to three ounces given every two or three 
hours even, help very much to tide over the worst times, 



ACUTE PERITONITIS. 43 

and if the case proceeds favourably, the amount may be 
gradually increased. 

Alcohol. — Alcohol is frequently required in cases of peri- 
tonitis. The safest form is old brandy, but later on cham- 
pagne may be given with safety and benefit. Thirst is 
best relieved by small pieces of ice allowed to melt slowly 
in the mouth. 

Nutrient Enemata. — In cases where the stomach rejects 
all food, feeding by the mouth should not be persisted in, 
as it only increases the distress of vomiting, and adds to 
the danger of the patient. In such cases, small nutrient 
enemata must be relied upon to keep up the patient's 
strength, and the use of prepared and peptonised or pre- 
digested materials greatly increases their nutritive value. 

Prepared Nutrient Enemata. — Carbo-hydrates, in the 
form of prepared farinaceous foods, or plain baked flour, 
with malt extract, peptonised milk-gruel, peptonised beef- 
tea, &c, with or without brandy as may be necessary, 
answer admirably for these enemata {cf. p. 20). A table- 
spoonful of such a food as, for example, Mellin's in an 
ounce of warm water, or two ounces of prepared milk-gruel, 
or a teaspoonful of beef peptones in an ounce of warm 
water, thrown carefully into the bowel three or four times 
a day, does much to sustain life. 

(For fuller details regarding nutrient enemata, see chap. 
"Nutrient Enemata"; also Recipe 79.) 

Typhlitis and Perityphlitis. 

Rest to the Bowels and Small Residual. — It is of great 
consequence in cases of inrlammation in and around the 
caecum that the diet should be carefully arranged and 
selected, so that small quantities are given at short intervals, 
and that while the food contains sufficient nourishment, it is 
small in bulk, and leaves but little residue to be passed 
down the bowel. The importance of rest to the bowels has 



44 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

been pointed out in speaking of peritonitis, and it is of 
almost equal importance in the cases now under considera- 
tion. The food should leave no bulky or irritating resi- 
dual to worry the inflamed bowel. As in cases of peritonitis, 
the indications are best met by giving concentrated nourish- 
ment in small quantities at a time, and by the use of artificial 
digestive agents. 

Four ounces of peptonised milk, or of milk-gruel, beef-tea, 
soup or jelly similarly treated, may be given every two hours. 
If a somewhat larger quantity can be well-borne by the 
patient, six ounces may be given every three hours — the 
gruel, beef-tea, or soup being given once to three supplies 
of milk. (For the preparation of peptonised foods, see 
Recipes 74-79.) 

Alcohol. — In young and strong subjects alcohol is nut 
required, but in those of feeble and debilitated constitution, 
as in second attacks, a tablespoonful of brandy may be 
given with every second supply of food. 



CHAPTER III. 
DISEASES OF THE LIVER, &c. 

General Contents : Functional Derangements — Acute Congestion of the 
Liver — Inflammation of the Liver — Diet in Gravel and Uric Acid — Cal- 
culus — Oxaluria. 

Functional Derangements of the Liver. 

Symptoms Patients who complain of headache, disin- 
clination for any physical or mental exertion, sleeplessness, 
and depression of spirits, with dyspeptic symptoms, such as 
furred tongue, disagreeable taste in the mouth, loss of appe- 
tite, flatulent distension and constipation, attribute their 
troubles to the fact that their liver is out of order. In the 
main, the conclusion is a right one, and in confirmation of 
this view we find that the urine is dark, often loaded with 
lithates, and containing bile pigments, while the motions 
are scanty and of a pale straw-colour, or even clay- coloured 
and offensive. 

Our knowledge of the action and uses of bile leads us to 
expect that such a combination of symptoms would result 
in cases where its secretion is disordered, for we know that 
bile has antiseptic properties, preventing decomposition in 
the contents of the bowel ; that it gives colour to the stools ; 
that it promotes peristaltic action ; and that, in conjunction 
with the pancreatic juice, it has considerable power as an 
emulsifying agent and solvent of fats. 

Mode of Life. — AYhen not associated with organic disease 
of the liver itself, or of any other important organ, or with 
malaria, functional derangements of the liver can usually be 

45 



46 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

tracer! to an unhealthy and inactive mode of life. The 
patients are generally those whose primary digestion lias 
been good. They have been accustomed to eat and drink 
freely, and they have taken very insufficient exercise. Con- 
tinued indulgence in more food than the needs of the body 
require will of itself lead to derangement of the liver, and 
when associated with indolent habits or forced inactivity, 
the disorder much more speedily results, more especially if 
to these causes be added worry and mental depression. 

Association with Gout.— Persons of the gouty diathesis 
are very subject to liver disorders, which sometimes alternate 
with attacks of acute gout, and both may be traced to the 
same cause or combination of causes. The only hope that 
such people have of keeping well is by leading an active 
life, and being abstemious, both as regards meat and drink. 
When a quantity of nitrogenous matter in excess of the wants 
of the system and beyond the powers of the liver is con- 
sumed, part of the surplus is not converted into urea, but 
remains to be eliminated by the kidneys, as uric acid and 
urates, or laid up as gouty deposits. 

Biliary and Renal Calculi. — The formation of biliary cal- 
culi, too, is associated with or dependent upon derange- 
ments in the functions of the liver. Usually continued liver 
disorder precedes the appearance of these calculi, and the 
same, moreover, may be said regarding renal calculi, of the 
uric acid kind at least. Persons, then, who are subject to 
hepatic derangements should be extremely simple in their 
diet and active in their habits. They should walk or ride 
on horseback regularly, and should as far as possible avoid 
spending their lives in hot climates, or keeping their houses 
and offices over-heated. 

Dietaries. — Articles of Diet to be Avoided. — Coming to 
the details of the diet, it may be said that such persons 
should avoid all rich and highly-seasoned dishes, as curries, 
pies, and pastry of all sorts, strong soups, foods rich in fats ; 
salmon, herrings, eels, mackerel, and other fish of an oily 



DERANGEMENTS OF THE LIVER. 47 

nature ; elaborate entrees, and made dishes of all kinds ; also 
rich sweets and creams ; cheese, dried fruits and nuts, like- 
wise malt liquors, sweet and generous wines, such as sweet 
champagne, madeira, brown sherry, and port, must be pro- 
hibited. 

Articles to be Used Sparingly. — They must use sparingly 
red meats, eggs, butter, sugar, cakes, puddings, milk and 
cream. They must be very moderate in their use of even 
light wines. If alcohol is taken at all, the safest form for 
many such patients is weak brandy or whisky and water. 

The diet may be arranged as follows : — 

Breakfast. — A small plate of very well-boiled oatmeal or 
hominy porridge and milk, followed by a cup of weak tea 
and a slice of toast with very little butter. 

Or a bit of fresh white fish or a slice of bacon with the 
tea and toast as above. 

In summer fresh ripe fruits, such as strawberries or 
gooseberries, and other fruits or plain salads in their season 
may be added. 

Luncheon. — Some vegetable soup with bread ; or fish, with 
a little mashed potato or fresh green vegetable, bread and 
butter, with lettuce or watercress. 

Beverage. — A glass of claret in water, or one tablespoon- 
ful of spirit in a small tumblerful of water, or a glass of 
plain or of aerated water. 

They may be allowed a cup of tea in the afternoon, with 
a slice of thin bread and buttei', a rusk, or a plain biscuit. 

Dinner. — (Two courses only, soup or fish, and meat, or 
meat and pudding.) 

Plain soup, especially of the vegetable kinds, or fish, as 
sole, whiting, plaice, turbot. 

Chicken, game, or tender mutton ; mashed or grated 
potato and well-boiled green vegetables, such as spinach 
or stewed celery. 

Any sort of plain milk-pudding, or shape and stewed fruit. 

Beverage as at luncheon. 



48 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Nothing after dinner but a glass of cold or of hot water, 
to be sipped before going to bed. 



Acute Congestion of the Liver. 

Acute congestion of the liver has to be treated dieteti- 
cally, in a very different way from the congestions that 
result from long-standing heart or lung disease. When 
the liver is acutely congested, besides the symptoms of 
disturbance in the hepatic functions already alluded to in 
speaking of functional derangements of that organ, there 
is enlargement, and usually some tenderness on pressure 
in the right hypochondrium. There is often also trouble- 
some vomiting, owing to the irritable state of the stomach. 
So long as the symptoms are acute, the diet must be 
restricted, and the patient limited to the most simple forms 
of nourishment, such as milk diluted with an alkaline 
water, broths, beef-tea, weak tea, barley, or toast-water. If 
thirst be very troublesome, these latter may be sipped freely, 
or the patient may be allowed to suck small pieces of ice. 
The milk, broths, and beef-tea should be given in regulated 
quantities of a cupful every three hours, and to each supply 
should be added a teaspoonful of powdered biscuit or other 
farinaceous substance, such as arrowroot, sago, or tapioca. 

Avoidance of Alcohol. — Except in cases where weakness 
renders it an absolute necessity, alcohol in every form 
should be withheld. 

When, after rest in bed, with warm applications, and the 
use of cholagogues, and a diet as above sketched, the acute 
symptoms have passed off, the greatest care is still necessary 
in regard to what food the patient takes. The diet must 
be continued of the simplest kind, and for a long time the 
rules laid down in the section on functional disorders of the 
liver should be strictly adhered to. Most persons who have 
suffered from acute hepatic congestion do well to abstain 
thereafter from alcohol in any form. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. 49 

Inflammations of the Liver (Acute and Chronic Hepa- 
titis): Malignant Disease and Morbid Growths in 
the Liver. 

Acute Stage. — In the acute stages the diet should be 
limited to liquid foods in the simplest forms, as directed 
under the head of "Congestion of the liver" (p. 48). 

In the early stages of chronic inflammations and of 
malignant disease, the patient's condition will be amelio- 
rated by attention to the matter of diet. The directions 
already given for the dietetic treatment of functional dis- 
orders of the liver should be followed, with this caution, 
however, that the great need there is in such cases 
for maintaining the patient's strength should never be 
forgotten ; and hence, while diet cannot be too simple, it 
should be as nutritious and sustaining as the impaired 
functional activity of the digestive organs will permit. 

Alcohol. — In inflammations of the liver, the use of alcohol 
is contra-indicated unless the patient's strength be greatly 
reduced, as, for example, after the opening of an abscess. 
In malignant diseases, on the other hand, wine and other 
forms of alcohol may safely be given in such quantities as 
the circumstances of each case render necessary at the time. 

Diet in Gravel and Uric Acid Calculus. 

Uric Acid. — Excess of uric acid in the blood, and deposits 
of it in the urine, being very closely allied to the gouty 
state, it is not necessary to repeat all that is said regard- 
ing the dietetic treatment of that condition (see chap, on 
Gout), or of the treatment of disorders of the liver (p. 45), 
with which both are intimately associated. It may, how- 
ever, here again be remarked that the diet must be restricted 
in quantity as well as in certain articles. The nitrogenous 
elements, especially red meats, must be used in great 
moderation ; and all rich heavy dishes should be altogether 
excluded, among these being numbered pies, pastry, sweets, 

d 



50 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

sugar, and fruits containing much sugar. Alcohol, if per- 
mitted at all — and in some cases where it distinctly aids the 
digestive processes a small quantity is beneficial — should 
be given in diluted forms and free from admixture. There- 
fore, liqueurs, port, sherry, sweet champagne, and malt 
liquors are to be prohibited. Fish, white meats, with 
plenty of well-cooked green vegetables, and salads where they 
agree, should, along with a moderate amount of milk and 
of farinaceous substances, constitute the diet. Water is the 
best solvent and diuretic, but the quantity taken at meals 
should be restricted. Taken in moderation, between meals, 
and also the first thing in the morning and the last thing 
at night, it will not interfere with digestion. 

In Children. — In the case of children and young persons 
who inherit the diathesis, a great deal may be done to 
prevent its fuller development in later life, by attention 
to these dietetic rules, combined with a simple active life, 
exercise in the open air, and suitable clothing. 

OXALURIA. 

Oxaluria may occur during the course of some chronic 
diseases, as, for instance, in phthisis, or it may appear tem- 
porarily in some persons after they have eaten such things 
as rhubarb, tomatoes, or unripe fruits. If persistent, it 
is associated with or dependent upon impaired digestion 
and imperfect assimilation of food. 

No distinctive rules for diet, applicable to all cases of 
oxaluria, can be laid down, but in general it may be said 
that food should be moderate in quantity, and should not 
contain much nitrogenous material. The great point is 
to secure, as far as it is possible, in these persons complete 
assimilation, and thus prevent accumulation of waste matter. 
The diet that is most fully digested answers best, and the 
activity of the digestive organs should be promoted by fresh 
air and open-air exercise. 



CHAPTBE IV. 

General Contents : Diabetes Mellitus — Simple Glycosuria — Polyuria 
(Diabetes Insipidus). 

Diabetes Mellitus. 

In no other disease, probably, are the beneficial effects of 
a well-chosen dietary so marked as in cases of diabetes ; 
but in considering questions of diet in this connection, we 
require to keep clearly before our minds three very diffe- 
rent conditions, namely — (i) diabetes mellitus; (2) simple 
glycosuria ; (3) diabetes insipidus, so called, for which a 
better designation is polyuria. 

Distinctions. — These three affections, although they touch 
each other in one or more points, are in reality widely sepa- 
rated as regards pathology, prognosis, and treatment. 

Glycosuria not Diabetes. — The more or less continuous 
passing of traces of sugar in the urine, or the occasional 
and temporary passing of sugar in the urine in consider- 
able amount, does not constitute true diabetes ; and hence we 
must not diet all glycosurics as if they were diabetics, else, 
in some cases at least, we shall do more harm than good. 

Diabetes insipidus likewise is mentioned in this connec- 
tion only to be separated and made distinct from both the 
others, as, except the passing of a large quantity of ui'ine, 
it has nothing in common with either. 

Definition. — While there are many variations in the 
clinical history of cases of true diabetes, and all the symp- 
toms need not be present in the same case at one time, 

S 1 



52 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

besides the special symptoms referable to the urine, we 
shall always find at least some of those that constitute a 
well-marked group. The usually keen, or even voracious, 
appetite of the diabetic is, nevertheless, accompanied by pro- 
gressive loss of flesh, although a large quantity of food is 
consumed by the patient. There must then be some defect 
in assimilation. It is this — a loss of power on the part 
of the organism to deal with starches and other carbo- 
hydrates. Our knowledge of the transformations that the 
carbo-hydrates undergo in the body during the progress 
of digestion is by no means complete, but we know that 
they pass through certain stages which bring them into 
the circulation in the form of grape-sugar, and that as such 
they enter the liver, there to undergo further changes in 
the process of assimilation. It is when these latter changes 
do not take place that we have an excess of sugar in the 
general circulation, a condition of affairs associated with 
other symptoms of the group, namely, a tormenting thirst, 
a harsh dry skin, a red beefy tongue, and a sweetish odour 
of the breath. The thirst, which is often a most distressing 
symptom, leads to the consumption of large quantities of 
fluids, and thus a high blood-pressure is kept up, rather 
favouring the rapid flow of saccharine blood from the liver, 
and also the secretion of a large quantity of urine. Urine 
containing an increased amount of urea, as well as a con- 
siderable amount of sugar, is necessarily of a high density, 
and often possesses acid irritating characters. 

Pathology. — While it must be admitted that the patho- 
logy of diabetes mellitus is still very obscure, there are 
certain facts bearing on its dietetic treatment that should 
here be summarised, as they tend to clear our way in refer- 
ence to the diets to be prescribed in different cases. 

Mention has already been made of the fact that the power 
of assimilating starches and other members of the carbo- 
hydrate group is, in cases of diabetes, defective. The non- 
assimilation of these substances, so important to the nutri- 



DIABETES MELLITUS. 53 

tion of the body, results in wasting, often advancing to 
extreme emaciation, which is usually accompanied by a 
trying sense of weakness and weariness. There is, as 
already said, an excess of sugar in the blood, and it is 
passed off by the urine in place of being used or stored 
up for the needs of the body. 

Importance of Maintaining Nutrition. — The condition of 
the patient is serious in proportion as the body is starved 
by excessive loss of sugar, and we may, in fact, to a great 
extent gauge the progress of the disease and the success 
or failure of dietetic means by the gain or loss in body 
weight that the patient manifests during the treatment. 
So long as nutrition is well maintained there is good hope 
that the patient will weather the storm ; and, in observing 
the varieties in the clinical history of this disease in different 
subjects, we find that the cases that run the most favourable 
course are those in which, while the chief symptoms remain 
in abeyance, the weight of the body keeps up or increases. 
In young subjects who are passing a large quantity of 
sugar, and who speedily become very thin and weak, there 
is far less hope of benefit accruing from a carefully regu- 
lated diet than in stout elderly patients whose digestive 
powers remain fairly vigorous, although they may continue 
to pass a large quantity of highly saccharine urine. 

How far a Rigid Diet should be Enforced. — In cases, 
too, where the cutting off of all starchy and saccharine 
articles of diet is not, in a reasonable time, followed by 
distinct amelioration of the patient's condition, the outlook 
is not hopeful, and it becomes a serious question how far a 
strict diet should be rigidly enforced. If the adherence to a 
rigid dietary is followed by loss of appetite and disturbance 
of the digestive functions so great as seriously to interfere 
with nutrition, it will be necessary to try very carefully the 
effect of slight relaxations in the least important points, 
always, however, keeping up a strict watch on the effect 
of such changes in the dietary. The patient's reason must 



54 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

be convinced by a sufficient explanation of the necessity 
that exists for his self-denial, and thus his hearty and loyal 
co-operation will be secured. Even with the best resolu- 
tions on his part, there is danger of the diet becoming very 
tiresome, if not altogether unbearable, and he will require 
considerable force of will if he is to adhere strictly to 
rules. 

Combination and Preparation of Foods. — Success in treat- 
ment will depend very largely on the trouble taken on our 
part in the combination and preparation of the foods that 
are allowable, so as to introduce as much variety into the 
diet as the necessary limitations will allow. The dietary 
must be satisfactory, not only with respect to the allow- 
ability of its constituents, but it must also, as far as is 
possible, satisfy the likings and appetite of the patient, 
and it must be suitable to his digestive powers. The 
directions must be written with precision ; general instruc- 
tions will not do in these cases. The permissible articles 
of diet must be clearly stated, and likewise those that cannot 
be allowed. 

Rationale of Diet. — Starches and sugars must be excluded 
as far as it is possible to do so. By the exclusion of starches 
and saccharine articles of diet, the excess of sugar in the 
blood, on the one hand, is reduced, and thus the urgent 
symptoms are relieved ; while on the other hand, by supply- 
ing such foods as are highly nutritive, but yield the least 
amount of sugar, the body is supported. Thus, in view of 
the possibility of the cause which set up the diabetes being 
removable, both the negative and positive sides of the ques- 
tion are of the greatest importance. 

The statement as to the total exclusion of starches and 
sugar is qualified for several reasons. Very few patients 
are found able to go on for many months, or even for years, 
upon an absolutely rigid diet ; they cannot endure it, and 
we often find that by allowing them a little ordinary bread 
no serious harm is done. In fact, the strain is relieved, and 



DIABETES MELLITUS. 55 

they are able to carry out the treatment in other details 
with greater strictness. As said before, however, the effect 
of any deviation whatsoever from rules must be carefully 
watched. 

Preliminary Steps in Treatment. — Before commencing 
treatment, the general condition of the patient should be 
carefully recorded, in order that there may be a definite 
standard of comparison, and his exact weight should also 
be taken. The urine too should be examined several times 
before the special diet is commenced. Then gradually the 
forbidden articles must be cut out of the dietary, sugar being 
one of the first to go. The quantity of bread taken must 
by degrees be limited, and what is taken must be thor- 
oughly toasted, so as to prepare the way for bran or gluten 
bread. Potatoes are often greatly missed, but they too must 
go, and so must all foods containing much starch, such as 
sago, tapioca, maccaroni, &c, until we bring the patient on 
to the diet recognised as being most suitable for diabetics. 

Dietaries. — Before sketching out the different meals, it 
may be well to give here a general list of things that the 
diabetic may eat, of those that he may eat but very spar- 
ingly, and of those that are injurious to him. 

He may eat : — Beef, mutton, and all kinds of butcher's 
meat except liver. Bacon and other smoked, salted or pre- 
served meats. Game, poultry, and other birds. Broths 
and beef-tea, or soups not thickened with any farinaceous 
substance. Fresh fish of all kinds, also salted, kippered, 
or otherwise preserved fish. Eggs prepared in any form. 
Butter and cream. Cream-cheese. Cheese, especially the 
poorer sorts. Bran or gluten bread and almond biscuits. 
Spinach, Scotch kale, turnip-tops, lettuce, cucumber, water- 
cress, mustard and cress, and all kinds of green salad, en- 
dive, radishes, mushrooms. Pickles, vinegar, and oil. Un- 
sweetened jellies, unsweetened creams. Custards without 
sugar. Walnuts, almonds, filberts, brazil-nuts and cocoa- 
nuts, olives. 



56 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

He may drink : — Tea, coffee, and cocoa made from the 
nibs. Claret, burgundy, chablis, hock, dry sherry, whisky, 
soda-water, apollinaris, &c. 

He may eat, but very sparingly, of: — Turnips, cabbage, 
brussels sprouts, French beans, cauliflower, broccoli, aspa- 
ragus, seakale, vegetable marrow. 

In this list in the instances we have already given will 
come ordinary bread or biscuits. In the matter of drinks, 
milk, brandy, and bitter ale may be here included. 

He must not cat : — Any form of sugar, wheaten bread, or 
biscuits. Sago, arrowroot, barley, rice, tapioca, maccaroni, 
vermicelli. Potatoes, carrots, beet-roots, parsnips, peas, 
Spanish onions. Puddings and pastry of all kinds. Fresh 
and preserved fruits in every form. 

. He must not drink: — Sweet wines, effervescing wines, 
port wine, and sherry. Liqueurs, stout, porter, and all 
sweet ales, also cider. 

Dietary for a Diabetic. — Breakfast. — Bacon or cold 
meat, preserved meats or tongue ; eggs ; fresh fish with 
melted butter, or fish preserved in oil ; gluten bread and 
butter. Salad or watercress. Tea with cream, coffee or 
cocoa nibs with cream. 

Luncheon. — Soup (not thickened). Mutton chop, cold 
meat, chicken or game. Potted salmon or trout, lobster 
salad or plain salad. Bran or gluten bread. Cream-cheese 
or skim-milk cheese. A glass of claret or hock in effer- 
vescing water. 

Afternoon tea. — A cup of tea with cream. Almond 
biscuits. 

Dinner. — Soup or broth (not thickened). Fresh white 
fish with melted butter, or salmon with lobster-sauce. 
Brill with anchovy-sauce, or cod with shrimp-sauce, or trout 
with parsley-butter (without flour). Sweet-bread, pig's 
cheek boiled, salmon or lobster mayonnaise. Pigeons with 
stewed mushrooms, ox palate. A plain joint, or mutton 
chop, or steak. Spinach, stewed cucumber, or brus-els 



GLYCOSURIA. 57 

sprouts. Game of any sort. Gluten or bran bread and 
butter. Cream. Salad of any kind and cheese. Almond 
biscuit. Claret, hock, or whisky with any aerated water. 

N.B. — For those patients who find it difficult to adhere 
entirely to unsweetened foods, saccharin comes in as a ready 
and safe sweetening agent, and is described by Dr. Pavy 
as an acquisition in the dietary of the diabetic. Owing to 
its immense strength as compared with sugar (nearly 300 
times), a very small quantity only is required, and used 
with ordinary care in very moderate quantities, no harm 
results from its employment. 

Simple Glycosuria. 

The tei*m glycosuria is still not uncommonly used as a 
synonym for true diabetes, though its use as such is of 
more than doubtful propriety, seeing how different the two 
conditions really are, and how much confusion of thought 
exists in regard to their relations the one to the other. 

Distinction from Diabetes. — In speaking of diabetes melli- 
tus, the distinction between that disease and mere glyco- 
suria has been mentioned, and our object now is to endeavour 
to make that distinction more emphatic. 

The passing of a small quantity of sugar in the urine 
by persons who are apparently healthy is not uncommon, 
and it has even been asserted that a minute trace of sugar 
is a normal constituent of healthy urine. This matter, 
however, has been made a subject of careful inquiry by 
competent observers, and it seems now to have been con- 
clusively proved that no sugar is to be found in perfectly 
normal urine. It is certain, however, on the other hand, 
that small quantities of sugar may be passed for consider- 
able periods of time without being associated with any 
marked deterioration of health, and without the presence 
of any of the other symptoms that are found in true 
diabetes. 



58 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Temporary Glycosuria. — (a.) In a considerable number 
of cases glycosuria is a temporary condition, existing during 
some passing disorder of health, and disappearing when that 
derangement has passed away. Again, sugar may be found 
in the urine of otherwise healthy persons after a meal at 
which sugar and starches have been consumed in larger 
quantity than the digestive organs of such persons can at 
the time cope with. 

Gouty Glyeosuries. — (b.) The subjects of simple glycosuria 
are usually stoutish, middle-aged or elderly people, fre- 
quently with markedly gouty tendencies, and more or less 
dyspeptic. They indulge freely in sweets and all forms of 
saccharine foods, and, as Dr. George Johnson in one of 
his lectures graphically puts it, " these are cases in which 
the taste for such food has survived the power of digesting 
it." As has already been said, this is a condition entirely 
different from diabetes, and patients who are the subjects of 
it do not require to be dieted with the same strictness that 
is necessary for diabetics. 

In the majority of instances the patients are gouty, and 
besides the presence of sugar, there is often a trace of albumen 
in the urine. This fact should at once put us on our guard, 
for we must not forget the existence of such a thing as " gouty 
kidney," and the greatest care should be taken not to diet 
the patient in such a way as to help on this tendency. 

Danger of Kidney Disease. — If carbo-hydrates are to a 
great extent cut off and a large supply of nitrogenous food 
substituted, the extra strain thereby thrown on the kidneys 
may, in the circumstances, suffice for the production of that 
form of Eright's disease which we know is not uncommon 
in gouty subjects, namely, the contracted kidney. If we 
can, we must avoid the substitution of a greater evil for a 
lesser. In constructing a dietary, therefore, for glyeosuries, 
this must be borne in mind, and, while the amount of 
saccharine food is carefully limited, care must be taken 
also not to burden them with an excess of albuminoid 



GLYCOSURIA. 59 

material. Their excretory capabilities are not of the best, 
and are therefore liable to break down if too heavily taxed. 

The glycosuria must not cat : — Sugar, sweets in any form, 
chocolate, &c. ; pastry, rich puddings, tinned fruits, dried 
or preserved fruits and nuts. 

He must not drink : — Sweet wines, sweet ales, stout, 
porter, liqueurs, sweet cider. 

He may cat : — Poultry and game, fish of all sorts, but 
preferably the lighter kinds, such as sole, whiting, turbot, 
brill, cod, trout. Sweet-breads, pig's cheek, or calf's head. 
Brown or white bread toasted. All kinds of green vege- 
tables and potatoes. 

He may drink : — Claret, hock, chablis, dry sherry, brandy, 
or whisky in water (plain or aerated), cocoa nibs or cocoatina, 
coffee, and tea, except where dyspeptic conditions forbid it. 

The following articles of diet should be used in great 
moderation by all persons of a glycosuric tendency associated 
with a gouty diathesis : — 

Red meats, cured or salted meats, such as ham, tongue, 
&c. Preserved or kippered fish. Eggs. Fruits of all kinds, 
both raw and cooked. Cheese ; beetroot, tomatoes, and 
rhubarb ; pickles. Bitter ales, burgundy, port wine, brown 
sherry, madeira, and champagne. 

Dyspepsia. — As a rule, gouty dyspepsia is an outstanding 
symptom in these cases ; the patients complaining, some 
most of flatulent distension, and some most of acidity. 
The reader is referred for full details to the section on the 
diet for dyspeptics, and it need here only be remarked that 
each case must be specially investigated, and individual 
peculiarities or difficulties of digestion observed, so that the 
most appropriate diet for each may be arrived at. 

Polyuria (Diabetes Insipidus). 

When the diagnosis of simple polyuria has been arrived 
at, to the exclusion of true diabetes and diseases of the 



60 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

kidney, the dietetic treatment of the case, in the absence 
of any apparent definite cause, resolves itself into the ques- 
tion of how best to support the strength of the patient, 
and compensate for the loss the body sustains through the 
continuous drain upon it. 

Liquids not to be Limited. — Experience proves that limita- 
tion of the quantity of fluid consumed by the patient is not 
followed by beneficial results, but rather, in these cases, 
tends to increase the difficulty of keeping up nutrition. 
While, however, the total quantity of fluid taken in the 
twenty-four hours must not be restricted, great benefit to 
digestion will often be brought about by preventing the 
patient from taking much liquid with, or just after, meals; 
and allowing him to use freely at other times simple drinks, 
such as barley-water, toast-water, lemon-juice and water, 
apple-rice water, tamarind-water, &c. (Recipes 19, 20, 
21, 24.) 

If digestive disturbance is a prominent symptom, the 
diet must be regulated to suit the powers of the patient's 
digestion, and in all cases the aim must be to enable 
the patient to assimilate an abundance of plain substantial 
food, supplemented, if need be, by cod-liver oil and malt 
extracts. 



CHAPTEE V. 
DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 

Gene/sal Contents : Acute Bright's Disease — Chronic Bright's Disease. 

Acute Bright's Disease. 

Removal of Inflammatory Products from the Kidney. — 

In dieting a patient suffering from acute Bright's disease, one 
fact to be kept prominently in mind is the difficulty that 
the system has in getting rid of its waste material, and 
especially of its nitrogenous waste. Another important 
point is, that the diet should be such as to assist in carry- 
ing off those inflammatory products by which we know that 
the tubules of the kidney are to a greater or less extent 
blocked. 

In view of the hampered excretion of effete matter, the 
amount of nitrogenous elements in the food must be kept 
down, and in view of the second point, namely, to aid in 
washing out the products of inflammation from the urini- 
ferous tubules, diluents must be given freely. 

Water as a Diuretic — Water is the best diuretic. Hot 
water and hot diluent drinks are doubly useful, as they not 
only keep up diuresis without irritating the kidney, but also 
because they promote the action of the skin, and in this 
twofold manner increase the excretion of waste. 

Milk the Staple Food. — Diluted milk is the food that 
answers best, and skimmed milk has a high reputation as 
a diuretic. Butter-milk, whey, and koumiss are also useful. 
From two to three pints of milk, well diluted, given in the 
twenty-four hours, will in most cases be sufficient at first ; 

61 



62 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

but if the disease be protracted and tends to become 
chronic, a more liberal allowance of liquid food must be 
ordered, and broths may have to be added to the dietary. 
When milk alone is used, it should be given in divided 
quantities at stated intervals — half-a-pint every three or 
four hours, diluted with half as much hot water or effer- 
vescing water. 

Diluents. — In the intervals between the supplies of milk, 
the patient may sip freely of diluent drinks, such as barley- 
water, toast-water, or imperial (Recipe 21), but care should 
be exercised that they be not taken too hurriedly, or in 
such quantity at a time as to upset the stomach. 

Chronic Bright's Disease. 

Before considering the distinctions between different kinds 
of chronic Bright's disease, it is desirable to notice some 
points that, in relation to diet, are common to all forms of 
chronic renal disease or renal inadequacy. 

Excretion of Nitrogenous Waste. — If we bear in mind the 
fact that the kidneys are the great agents in the work of 
excreting nitrogenous waste, it need hardly be pointed out 
that if these organs are unable fully to perform their func- 
tions, an accumulation of nitrogenous waste products must 
necessarily take place in the blood. This is so to a greater 
or less degree in proportion to the extent to which struc- 
tural changes have advanced in the " large white," and in 
the " lardaceous," as well as in the "cirrhotic" kidney. 
As soon, therefore, as we have evidence sufficient to prove 
that the kidneys are labouring, and are burdened by their 
work, we must endeavour to remove the strain by regulating 
the diet ; and one clear indication is to limit the supplies 
of nitrogenous food. 

Influence of Alcohol. — Another important point is the 
influence of alcohol on these patients. In cases of chronic 
renal disease, alcohol is badly borne, and unless there is 



BRIGHT'S DISEASE. 63 

some urgent reason for its use, it should not be employed. 
While, therefore, such important hygienic measures as the 
wearing of warm clothing and other means of protection 
from cold, together with regular habits of living in every 
respect, are not to be forgotten, great importance attaches 
to the regulation of the patient's dietary, especially in regard 
to the use of animal food and of alcohol. 

Origin of Chronie Renal Disease — There may be a history 
of an attack of acute Bright's disease at some former time, 
which has left the kidneys permanently and progressively 
damaged, and has rendered them unable to stand the strain 
that, through ignorance of ordinary physiological laws, has 
been habitually imposed upon them. In many cases we 
can trace an habitual over-indulgence in food and drink. 
In some, chronic dyspepsia is prominent ; and if we go a 
step farther back, in other cases we shall find that the 
liver is primarily at fault. 

If the condition has not had its origin in an acute attack, 
it has probably crept upon the patient stealthily. The 
kidneys have for long been struggling to eliminate an excess 
of nitrogenised waste matter, and they have broken down in 
their efforts to rid the system of these products of imperfect 
digestion. 

The discovery of albuminuria is made, perhaps, quite un- 
expectedly, and it is to be feared that too often the treat- 
ment is based rather upon an endeavour to control the loss 
and to supply the place of the albumen lost, than to relieve 
the kidneys from the strain under which they are suffering. 

Danger of Over-Feeding. — In other words, the tendency 
is to over-feed the patients, and to forget that, though the 
loss of albumen in this way may be a serious matter, the 
real danger to the patient is the progressive degeneration 
of the kidneys, and the increasing retention in the blood of 
deleterious waste that necessarily ensues. 

We may very probably not be able to remove the worry 
and mental strain that play an important part in the clinical 



64 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

history of renal cases, but we can at least so select tbe diet 
as to make the work of the liver, and consequently also of 
the kidney, as light as possible. 

Necessity for Relieving the Kidneys from Over- Work. — 
Excesses in eating and drinking may or may not be trace- 
able as the cause of the renal disease in the particular case 
with which we are at the time dealing, but the consump- 
tion of a large amount of animal food and the free uso 
of alcohol undoubtedly must be stopped if the mischief in 
the kidney is to be arrested. As has been already said, 
the supplies of nitrogenous food must be cut down, and 
alcohol must in most cases be struck out of the dietary 
altogether. We say in most, not in all cases, because there 
probably is here and there an isolated example where the 
digestive processes do not go on so smoothly and perfectly 
without alcohol as when it is allowed, but the amount must 
be small, and the effect must be carefully watched. 

When to give Alcohol- — If we can assure ourselves that 
digestion is more completely carried out with the aid of 
a small quantity of alcohol, then it must not be withheld. 
We must, however, be very sure, and be ever on the watch 
both as to the quantity taken and the effect on the patient's 
general condition, as well as upon the amount of albumen 
passed. 

Fluids and Diuretics. — Another matter of importance is 
the question of the quantity and kind of the fluids taken. 
It may be said in general that simple drinks, such as plain 
water, toast-water, barley-water, or the good old-fashioned 
cream of tartar and lemon drinks, are all useful as diluents, 
and that they probably aid the action of diuretics. This 
caution, however, must be given — they should bo sipped 
slowly, and not gulped down in large quantities, and they 
should be taken in the main between, and not at meal- 
times, else they will frequently interfere with digestion, and 
do harm instead of good. In cases of granular kidney, 
especially where the changes in the vessels throughout the 



BRIGHT'S DISEASE. 65 

body are advanced, care is necessary in the amount of 
liquid taken, and in the manner in which it is taken, lest 
by over-pressure haemorrhages be induced or increased. 
In other forms of renal degeneration, too, where the heart 
is seriously implicated and there is much dropsy, if we find 
that liberal allowances of fluid have not a diuretic effect, 
and are not helping to free the system of retained poisonous 
matters, it is time to ask ourselves whether they are not 
doing actual harm. 

Milk. — Milk has a great reputation in cases where the 
kidneys are at fault, but it must be remembered that when 
it enters into a mixed dietary, milk does not always agree 
well, and hampers the digestion of other foods, in some 
cases even causing a copious deposit of uric acid to appear 
in the patient's urine. In bad cases the use of milk as 
the sole article of diet is often attended with the happiest 
results, and this is so more particularly in the case of 
children. A purely milk diet generally suits young sub- 
jects, and its employment for a time is followed by abate- 
ment of the symptoms, and by the disappearance of albumen 
from the urine. 

In a certain proportion of cases of chronic Bright's disease, 
persisting or recurring dyspepsia is a troublesome and diffi- 
cult symptom to deal with, more particularly where there is 
also marked anasmia. In such circumstances questions of 
diet become more complicated, and each individual case 
must be judged by itself, the dietetic treatment that seems 
best at the time being adopted. It may, however, be here 
remarked that these anaemic patients are not always benefited 
by a fuller dietary with an increased supply of animal food. 

Milk Diet Alone. — If the digestive organs are so enfeebled 
that they cannot utilise the supplies of food given, no good, 
but only harm, will result from relaxation of the rules 
already laid down, and such patients will often be found to 
do best upon a diet of milk alone. It is remarkable how 
long this diet exclusively of milk can be maintained in the 

£ 



66 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

case of those patients with whom it agrees. Instances are 
well known of patients who have adhered to it for years 
with marked benefit to health, and while leading fairly 
active lives. Sometimes skimmed -milk only can be borne, 
as the cream disagrees and causes dyspepsia, or the patients 
become too stout. On the other hand, the removal of the 
cream renders milk more constipating. Where, therefore, 
unskimmed-milk agrees, and the patients do not put on too 
much flesh, it forms an admirable diet, supplying all that is 
wanted for the bodily needs, without excess of nitrogenous 
elements, and affording sufficient fluid to wash away effete 
materials. 

Relapses. — In those cases where exacerbations of the 
symptoms occur from time to time, milk diet should be had 
recourse to, and the duration of that treatment will depend 
upon the circumstances of the case and the urgency of the 
symptoms. In the intervals a varied but carefully selected 
dietary should be employed. As a general rule, the milk 
will agree best if warmed, and taken in quantities of from 
half a pint to a pint at a time. The total amount consumed 
by an adult in the twenty-four hours should be from three 
to four quarts, if the strength is to be well maintained. 

Dietaries. — Putting aside for the present cases in which 
a milk diet only is required, and coming to details of the 
ordinary diets, it will be apparent, from what has already 
been insisted upon, that animal food, such as beef, mutton, 
veal, lamb, or pork, should hardly find a place in the dietary 
of the^e patients. 

Game and white meats, such as chicken, may be allowed 
in moderate quantities, say, once a day. 

Fish is not only allowable, but is a useful form of 
albuminoid. Fat bacon and ham need not be excluded if 
they can be well digested. Broths, with rice or barley and 
vegetables in them, fish-soups, and soups made with milk 
or cream, are all useful articles of diet. Well-cooked vege- 
tables and salads, where digestion is good, may be freely 



BRIGHTS DISEASE. 67 

allowed, with the exception of beans, peas, lentils, &c, which 
have too much nitrogenous matter. Fruits, cooked and raw, 
are admissible. Pastry had better be omitted, but bread 
and butter, cakes not too rich in eggs, puddings, to which 
the same remark applies, and biscuits are not objection- 
able. 

The dietaries, giving variations for different days, might 
be sketched as follows : — 

For the First Day. — Breakfast. — A plate of oatmeal, 
whole wheaten meal, or hominy porridge, with cream or good 
milk ; bread or toast and butter ; cocoa, tea, or coffee, with 
plenty of milk added. 

Luncheon. — A bit of fish, with a little melted butter, 
some mashed potato and green vegetable. Biscuit or bread 
and butter. 

In the afternoon. — A cup of tea with milk, a slice of thin 
bread and butter. 

Dinner. — Soup, pure'e of potato, chicken, or rabbit, 
mashed potato, green vegetables, plain or milk puddiug, 
with stewed fruit. Dessert. — Kipe fruit. 

Leverage. — A glass of aerated water. 

The last thing at night. — A glass of milk and soda- or 
Beltzer-water. 

Second Day. — Breakfast. — A slice of well-mixed bacon 
or fat ham may take the place of porridge, and be followed 
by toast, by bread and butter, tea, coffee, or cocoa, with 
plenty of milk. 

Luncheon. — A basin of vegetable soup, a bit of cheese, 
bread and butter, and salad. 

Afternoon tea. — Toast or rusk, tea filled up with milk. 

Dinner. — A piece of boiled fish, butter-sauce, a plain 
entre'e with vegetables, milk-pudding or shape, stewed fruit 
or blanc-mange, biscuit or bread and butter, a glass of plain 
or aerated water. 

At night. — Milk and soda-water. 

Third Day. — Breakfast. — A bit of fish, fried or grilled, 



6.S FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

toast or bread and butter, coffee, cocoa, or tea, with plenty 
of milk. 

Luncheon. — A milk-pudding with stewed fruit and cream, 
bread and butter. 

Afternoon tea. — Cocoa or milk or weak tea, a slice of 
bread and butter. 

Dinner. — Fish-soup, game or poultry, mashed potato, 
green vegetables, maccaroni-cheese. Dessert. — Eipe fruit. 

Beverage. — A glass of plain or aerated water. 

At night. — A glass of peptonised milk or of milk and 
soda-water. 



CHAPTER VI. 
SCURVY. 

Curative Effects of Diet. — Experience is not wanting to 
prove that cases of scurvy are, in the absence of complica- 
tions, rapidly cured by dietetic means, and that without 
a proper arrangement of the diet, medicinal and hygienic 
measures, although valuable aids, will not of themselves 
effect a cure. 

Scurvy is nowadays so much less frequently seen, that 
the possibility of its existence in a mild form, under the 
influence of a very restricted diet, coupled with bad hygienic 
surroundings, is apt to be forgotten, and it is very probable 
that cases in which the unhealthy blood-state exists to a 
partial extent, and without the marked symptoms of the 
disease, are sometimes overlooked. 

The exact nature of the changes in the blood has not 
yet been fully made out, but we know that scurvy never 
occurs except in circumstances where the diet is restricted, 
wanting in variety, and deficient in fresh fruits and green 
vegetables. When fresh vegetables and fruits cannot be 
obtained, lemon-juice is found to be the best preventive 
as well as a most efficient remedy. 

Usually the digestive powers are not much impaired, and 
the patient is able to take ordinary food freely when it is 
reduced to pulp, as the inflamed state of the gums prevents 
the mastication of solids. 

Danger of Syncope. — Bearing in mind the fact that in 

severe cases there is a great tendency to syncope, which 

6 9 



70 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

has often proved fatal, the diet should at first be so arranged 
that the patient may obtain an abundance of nourishment, 
and still retain the recumbent posture even when taking 
his food. 

Necessity of Soft Food. — Milk, broths, beef- tea, eggs 
beaten up in milk, potatoes mashed with milk, green vege- 
tables, such as spinach mashed, pounded meat, chicken 
panada, ripe fruits, will be suitable early in the treatment, 
and a pleasant beverage will consist of lemon -juice in water 
slightly sweetened. 

(a.) Dietary. — For a severe case, the following directions 
will be suitable : — 

7.30 a.m. — A cupful of milk, warmed. 

8.30. — An egg beaten up in milk, or a cup of cocoa, 
with thin bread and butter, or a plate of well-boiled por- 
ridge with cream. These may alternate on different days, 
and should be followed by some fresh ripe fruit. 

II.30. — A cupful of good broth, with plenty of fresh 
vegetables in it. 

2 P.M. — Panada of chicken pounded and warmed, with 
bread crumbs, mashed potatoes, well-boiled and mashed 
green vegetables. Ripe fruits or stewed fruits and 
cream. 

5 p.m. — A cup of cocoa with rusks or toast soaked 
in it. 

7.30. — A meal like the two o'clock one. 

10 P.M. — A cup of milk or prepared food. 

Lemon-juice and stimulants. — As a beverage, lemon-juice, 
as already mentioned, will be grateful in most cases. 

Malt liquors seem to have a decidedly favourable effect 
in most cases. In some, burgundy or brandy and water 
agrees best. 

(b.) In less severe cases, patients will be able to take larger 
meals at a time, and consequently the intervals between 
times will be longer. 

The general directions as to the selection of foods will 



SCURVY. 71 

apply equally in these cases as in the severe ones, and 
the divisions will be into four meals. A good breakfast, 
a midday meal, afternoon tea, and dinner. In the lesser 
degrees of the malady stimulants are not so necessary as 
in the severe cases. 



CHAPTER VII. 

ANEMIA. 

Though our knowledge of the life-history of the blood is by 
no means complete, we are conversant with conditions arising 
in connection with well-marked changes in its constitution, 
and that are associated with defects in the processes of its 
formation. 

Causes of Anaemia. — We know that the condition which 
we call anaemia, wherein the blood is deficient in its most 
important constituents, may arise under very different cir- 
cumstances. It may occur in the course of such diseases as 
syphilis or chronic Bright's disease, and it may be associated 
with lead- or mercury-poisoning, or with malaria. In all 
these cases the anaemic condition is the outcome of the 
continued action of the poison in the blood, and the aim 
of treatment must be to remove the primary evil before 
much good can be expected from dealing with the anaemia. 

Simple or idiopathic anaemia, however, is a totally 
different condition from any of the foregoing, and the diag- 
nosis can generally be clearly made out ; leukaemia also 
being excluded. 

The Anaemic Type. — Simple anaemia, of which alone we 
have now to speak, comes before us usually in the person of 
a young girl, about or just beyond the age of puberty, 
pale, puffy, and breathless, with impaired digestion, feeble 
circulation, and usually persistent constipation. For our 
present purpose, we must consider first the state of the 
digestive organs, and wp find that dyspepsia is more or less 

7= 



ANEMIA. 73 

prominent. Obviously the diet must be modified according 
to the patient's powers of digestion, the constipation, that, as 
already has been said, is an almost invariable symptom, 
being also dealt with before the good effects of dietetic 
treatment can be obtained. 

Simple Diet and Rest in Bed. — The more marked and 
long continued the anaemia, and the greater the consequent 
weakness, the more simple must the diet be at the com- 
mencement of the treatment. My experience of severe 
cases of anaemia has led me to the conclusion that the 
speediest way to a cure is to keep the patient in bed for a 
week or even for two or three weeks, if the symptoms are 
very pronounced and the constitutional disturbance great. 
These patients have gradually failed because their expenditure 
has been greater than could be met by lessened powers of 
assimilation, and the rest in bed, especially in the case of 
girls who for some time have been struggling with their 
work, does wonders in bringing back the power of the 
digestive organs and restoring the balance between the 
wants of the system and the assimilation of nutriment. 

Hygiene. — On the other hand, I believe that in many cases, 
in those, at least, in which the condition is of but recent 
origin, the patients would soon get well without any special 
treatment if we could place them in favourable hygienic cir- 
cumstances as regards good food and fresh air, securing also 
the full and regular action of the bowels. 

Use of Iron. — The known beneficial effects, however, of 
iron, combined with aperients in the treatment of anaemia, 
lead us to resort speedily to its use in most cases without 
waiting for the result of other means alone. Thus, perhaps, 
we are inclined to give to iron too large a place in the 
treatment of anaemia, to the neglect of such other valuable 
means as a regulated diet, the use of aperients, fresh air, 
and suitable exercise, by all of which better assimilation 
and improved nutrition are brought about and established. 

One point in this connection should be emphasised, 



74 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

and it is this, there is little or no good to be expected 
from the exhibition of iron when the digestive organs are 
seriously out of order and the bowels constipated. There- 
fore, it is often well to wait a short time before com- 
mencing to give iron in any form ; and should this dis- 
ordered state of things recur during the treatment, the iron 
had better be omitted for a short time, and then resumed 
gradually. 

Severe Cases. — In severe cases of anaemia, then, the 
patient should be kept in bed for a short time at the com- 
mencement of treatment in an airy room, with, if possible, 
a sunny exposure, and fed upon the simplest and most 
nutritious articles of diet in such forms as the weakened 
digestive organs can best utilise, and at the same time with 
as much variety in the diet as possible. At this stage, 
meat cooked in ordinary ways cannot be digested, but 
strong broths and soups with pounded meat in them, and 
thickened with some farinaceous substance, milk and soda- 
water, milk-pudding, and other dishes made with milk, 
well-boiled green vegetables, and cooked fruits, form the 
staple articles of diet. 

Prepared and Artificially Digested Foods. — In cases where 
there is extreme difficulty of digestion, it is necessary for a 
time to resort to the prepared farinaceous foods, or the 
milk, the soups, and other things may be peptonised by the 
addition of, say, liquor pancreaticus (Recipes 74-78). 

Alcohol and Cod-Liver Oil. — Two other things coming 
fairy under the head of foods, alcohol and cod-liver oil, 
should be here considered in their relations to these cases. 
Alcohol is seldom indicated or required in anaemia, but in 
cases of great feebleness it may be useful in the form of a 
glass of plain claret or light burgundy with luncheon or with 
dinner. In other cases, a glass of light brisk ale with these 
meals may be of service by stimulating the appetite and 
promoting digestion. Under any circumstances, however, 
if given at all in anaemia, the quantity of alcoholic stimulant 



ANMMIA. 75 

should be small, and it is hardly necessary to add that it 
should be given with food, not between meals or on an 
empty stomach. These patients are young persons, and it 
is highly important that they should not come to be depen- 
dent on the continuous use of alcohol. The stimulating 
effects are not what is wanted, and alcohol is useful in these 
cases only in so far as it promotes assimilation and im- 
proves nutrition. 

The other is cod-liver oil, and there are several points 
that should guide us in its use. If cod-liver oil at all 
upsets the digestion, it should not be persevered with, 
although it may be again giver a fair trial after the dis- 
turbance has subsided, and in many cases it is a useful 
addition to the food supply, while it increases rather than 
diminishes the appetite. It can be given along with iron, 
and in that combination is often of decided help in enrich- 
ing the blood. Where plain cod-liver oil cannot be taken, 
it is sometimes well borne in the form of an emulsion, with 
or without extract of malt, or the extract of malt may be 
given alone with the food. 

Coming now to the details of the diet, and bearing ever 
in mind the general principle already laid down, that the 
more digestive and constitutional disturbance there is, the 
simpler must be the food, we should, in a case of severe 
anamiia, diet the patient as follows : — 

Diet No. 1. — 8 a.m. — A breakfast-cupful of bread and 
milk or rusks and milk, or of some prepared farinaceous 
food, with a teaspoonful of malt extract. {Note. — The bread 
and milk may be peptonised.) 

1 i a.m. — A breakfast-cupful of soup or of beef-tea, with 
pounded meat and some baked flour or biscuit powder in it. 
Mutton or veal broth, chicken-tea or rabbit- soup, may be 
used for the sake of variety, and should all be thickened as 
above directed. 

2 p.m. — A milk-pudding with one egg in it. (Note. — 
The digestibility is considerably increased if the dry fari- 



76 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

naceous material be first exposed to heat in the oven, and 
some malt flour added to it before the hot milk is poured 
over it.) 

4.30. — A cupful of peptonised milk (Recipe 74), with 
a slice of thin bread and butter. 

7 P.M. — A breakfast-cupful of broth or soup as at 1 1 
o'clock. 

9.30. — A milk meal, as at 8 a.m. 

During the night one to two cupfuls of warm peptonised 
milk or of peptonised gruel may be taken. 

Gradual Enlargement of Dietary. — As the digestive powers 
improve and the strength of the patient returns, the dietary 
should be gradually enlarged, the prepared and peptonised 
foods being replaced by ordinary articles of diet. Broths, 
with plenty of vegetables in them, pounded meats, well- 
boiled porridge, boiled fish, chicken, &c, will gradually 
lead up to chops and joints, while well-cooked green vege- 
tables, stewed fruits, and plain puddings will by degrees 
be added. 

Diet No. 2. — In cases where it has been necessary on 
account of the feebleness of the digestive organs to put the 
pitient at first upon the simplest possible dietary, this 
second scheme of diet may be pursued when convalescence 
has fairly set in. In less serious cases it will be suitable 
from the first of the treatment. 

Breakfast. — A lightly boiled egg, or a bit of plain fresh 
fish ; brown bread and butter or toast ; cocoa and milk. 

I I o'clock. — A small glass of warm milk, or a cupful of 
soup or broth. 

Early dinner. — A chop or plain cutlet, or a slice of 
boiled mutton or any other light meat, such as game or 
poultry ; mashed potatoes ; well-cooked tender green vege- 
tables ; biscuits and butter. 

Beverage. — A glass of plain or of aerated water. 

Afternoon tea. — A cup of cocoatina or of warmed milk, 
a slice of thin brown bread and butter. 



AN A! MI A. 77 

Suppci'. — A breakfast-cupful of soup, with the meat 
pounded and put into it, together with some farinaceous 
material which has been exposed to heat. A small milk- 
pudding, made as directed in diet No. I. 

Beverage. — A glass of milk and soda-water. 

The last thing at night. — A glass of milk and hot water, 
or of gruel. (Note. — In early stages the gruel may be 
peptonised.) 



CHAPTER VIII. 

SCROFULA. 

While scrofula is undoubtedly very often inherited, it may, 
nevertheless, manifest itself in the children of parents who 
themselves could not be said to be actually scrofulous, though 
constitutionally delicate, or their health at the time their 
children were born may have been enfeebled by chronic 
disease or by age. 

Acquired Scrofula. — Among the causes of what may be 
called acquired scrofula comes first of all improper feeding, 
usually associated with want of fresh air, and with alto- 
gether bad hygienic surroundings. This combination of 
causes obtains largely amongst the children of the poor in 
towns. In the case of poor country children, it can hardly 
be said that fresh air is wanting to them during the day, 
but their food is often insufficient and wanting in nutritive 
value. 

Insufficient Food. — The poor in many parts of the country 
have, for instance, great difficulty in obtaining for their 
children a sufficiency of good milk, and unhappily oaten 
cakes and home-made bread, both of which contain im- 
portant elements of tissue formation, have been superseded 
in too many homes by ordinary baker's bread. The butter, 
too, that should be liberally supplied, is dear, and its place 
is too frequently taken by a scraping of jam or of treacle. 

Results of Improper Feeding. — Amongst the children of 

the well-to-do classes, excessive and improper feeding, by 

keeping up chronic indigestion, acts almost as prejudicially 

78 



SCROFULA. 79 

as an insufficient supply of food or a diet of low nutritive 
value, and a deterioration of health as surely follows. 

It is now many years since Sir James Clark, amongst 
others, pointed out the great importance of a properly 
arranged diet in reference to the health of children, and 
emphasised the fact, that even where the element of heredi- 
tariness cannot be traced, a disordered condition of system, 
induced and maintained by chronic digestive difficulties, 
often leads up to the manifestation of scrofula or of struma. 
It is apt to be forgotten that a condition of deficient nutri- 
tion may be kept up by an excessive and unsuitable dietary, 
as well as by one that is insufficient and innutritious. 
The lowered standard of health and strength that ensues 
is followed by scrofulous manifestations in those who, under 
more favourable circumstances, might have escaped them. 

Wet Nurse versus Unhealthy Mother. — In the case of the 
mother being pronouncedly strumous or phthisical, or even 
markedly delicate, the infant should not be brought up at 
her breast. A healthy wet-nurse, if possible, should be got, 
or failing that, the milk of good country-fed cows should be 
obtained. It will give such children the best chance of 
growing up strong and healthy if they are reared in the 
country under favourable hygienic surroundings. After the 
first few months some farinaceous material will be added to 
the dietary, and of prepared infants' foods suitable for use 
in this way there are many excellent varieties. 

Dietaries. — By degrees the quantities of food other than 
milk will be increased, until a diet such as the following 
will be suitable from about the age of twelve months : — 

7 A.M. — A teacupful of milk, with a good teaspoonful 
of Mellin's food dissolved in it. 

10 a.m. — A teaspoonful of fresh whey with a table- 
spoonful of cream in it. 

I P.M. — The yolk of an egg beaten up in a teacupful of 
milk, or a teacupful of chicken- or veal-broth, with a tea- 
spoonful of farinaceous food in it. 



80 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

4 p.m. — A teacupful of milk, or a teacupful of whey with 
cream in it. 

6.30. — A teacupful of beef-tea or mutton-broth with 
a powdered rusk or other farinaceous material stirred in 
it, or a teacupful of barley-water with the farinaceous 
material in it. 

During the night. — If the child wakes up, he may be 
given a little milk, and if he wakes early in the morning 
he should have a teacupful of milk then, and not be com- 
pelled to wait till breakfast-time. 

As the child grows older, even if the manifestation of 
the scrofulous tendency remain in abeyance, the care re- 
garding diet must not be relaxed. The child should be 
encouraged to take plenty of time over his meals, culti- 
vating the habit of eating slowly, and learning to masticate 
all foods very thoroughly. 

From the age of two or three years the diet might be as 
follows : — 

Breakfast, 8— 8. 30 a.m. — A basin of bread and milk, or 
a teaspoonful of cocoatina in a cupful of boiled milk with 
bread and butter. 

1 1 a.m. — A teacupful of new milk, with a rusk or a 
plain biscuit. 

1.30 p.m. — A small piece of tenderly cooked roast mutton, 
pounded ; a spoonful of mashed potato with gravy ; a table- 
spoonful of milk-pudding with stewed fruit, or stewed fruit, 
and cream in place of pudding. 

4.30. — Bread and milk, as at breakfast, or a cup of 
milk with a spoonful of farinaceous food in it, or milk and 
cocoa with bread and butter. 

Before going to bed, a cup of milk with a biscuit, and 
the same if he awakes early in the morning. 

Use of Cod-Liver Oil. — So much for the diet of young chil- 
dren. Then there comes the question of cod-liver oil, which, 
since its first introduction, now a good many years ago, has 
been very extensively used in the treatment of such cases as 



SCROFULA. 8 1 

those we are now considering, and in numberless instances 
with undoubted benefit. Although some children never 
overcome their first dislike to it, the majority take it readily, 
and many seem even to miss it when by chance it is 
omitted. 

Different Types — Cod-liver oil is a convenient form of 
giving fat, and the fatty constituents of food are much 
wanted, especially in odo type of scrofulous children — the 
slim and thin, with a strong dash of the nervous diathesis in 
their composition. In these cases there can be no doubt of 
the value of cod-liver oil and malt. Better results are ob- 
tained under its use than in the thick-set, flabby, and some- 
what heavy children, in whom the development of fat is not 
wanting, and whose nervous systems are by no means un- 
usually active. In these latter, the processes of nutrition 
are sluggish, and every means of promoting assimilative 
activity should be employed to induce more healthy growth, 
and to quicken their sluggish faculties. 

Alteratives and Courses of Waters. — It is on this ground, 
no doubt, that alteratives, such as mercury and iodine, are 
sometimes useful, as are also courses of iodine and other 
waters ; the active open-air life followed during a course of 
treatment at a watering-place is doubtless a most valuable 
adjunct. 

Inunction. — In cases of great feebleness, where cod-liver 
oil cannot be taken, benefit is often obtained by the inunc- 
tion of that or some other oil. Whilst cod-liver oil is the 
most efficacious, its unpleasant odour is a serious objection 
to its use, and olive-oil will often be found a preferable 
substitute. 

We have discussed the diet of young children who are 
strumous or have a tendency in that direction, and it 
remains only to be said that wherever throughout youth 
the proclivity exists, a nourishing diet should be maintained, 
and should be aided by plenty of fresh air and exercise in 
the open air, guarding only against violent games, lest 

F 



82 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

injury should be done to the bones or joints, that are so apt 
to give serious trouble in the case of scrofulous children. 

Uric Acid Diathesis. — Except in those cases where there 
is much deposit of uric acid, as sometimes happens, milk 
should be given freely, and indeed should form a staple 
article of diet. Well-boiled oatmeal porridge ; brown bread 
and butter ; milk-puddings ; cream in different forms ; fruit, 
especially cooked, are all useful and desirable. It has been 
suggested that where, on account of the uric acid tendency, 
fruit would seem to be contra-indicated, it may be given if 
potash be used in the cooking, as one would do in the case 
of the gouty. There has been a prejudice against bread and 
potatoes for these patients, and no doubt a diet composed 
largely of these, without more nourishing food to supplement, 
is most injurious to organisms requiring liberal supplies of 
more concentrated nutriment ; but mashed potatoes with 
cream or milk along with meat are excellent, and no 
objection can be taken to brown bread and butter occupy- 
ing a subordinate place in the dietary. For a growing 
youth of the type we are now considering, the diet may be 
arranged as follows : — 

Breakfast, 8.30. — Well-boiled porridge and new milk, 
or milk with a spoonful of cream in it. A slice of fat bacon 
or an egg with cocoa and brown bread and butter. 

Dinner, 1 o'clock. — Meat in any tenderly cooked form ; 
mashed potato with milk or cream ; well-boiled green 
vegetable ; suet-pudding or milk-pudding, or stewed fruit 
with cream, or a plain cream and dessert. 

Beverage. — A glass of water. 

Tea, 6. — Fish with melted butter ; or an egg, or a slice 
of fresh tongue ; bread and butter with cocoa. 

Supper. — A glass of milk, or a cup of malted farinaceous 
food. 

If it is relished, and does not spoil the appetite for 
breakfast, a glass of warm milk may be given at 7 or 7.30 

A.M. 



SCROFULA. 83 

Alcohol. — It will be observed that alcohol is not included 
in this dietary, and there is seldom any necessity for a 
breach of the general rule that young people are better 
without any form of alcoholic stimulant. If the necessity 
for it is clearly indicated, the form and quantity must be 
decided by the circumstances of the case. 



CHAPTER IX. 
GOUT. 

Chronic and Acute. 

A very great deal has been written about gout in general, 
and a great many theories have, at one time and another, 
been started regarding the pathology of the gouty state ; 
but with these different theories I do not propose here to 
deal, except in so far as they have a bearing on the dietetic 
treatment of the disease. 

Since gout is usually admitted to be the outcome and 
manifestation of an undue accumulation of nitrogenous 
waste in the system, the first questions respecting the 
dietary of gouty subjects that we have to ask ourselves are, 
what is the cause of this accumulation ? and what are the 
means by which it is brought about ? 

Excess of Uric Acid. — We know that the products arising 
from the oxidation of albuminoid foods in the body are 
uric acid and urea. In health, when the balance between 
the amount of albuminoid food taken and the waste, in the 
form of urea, got rid of, is well maintained, the quantity 
of uric acid in the blood is extremely small. In gout, 
however, not only can uric acid in considerable quantity 
be separated from the blood, but it may be found also 
under similar circumstances in the fluid of serous effusions. 
The balance is disturbed, and waste products that should be 
eliminated are retained in the system. 

There are good reasons for attributing to the liver the 
chief part in the formation of urea, and it seems that so 

8 4 



CHRONIC GOUT. 85 

long as the liver can cope with the supplies of nitrogenous 
food ingested, the surplus waste is carried off by the kidneys 
as soluble urea, and the system is not burdened by an excess 
of uric acid. 

Hereditariness and Predisposing Causes. — The hereditari- 
ness of gout is undeniable in many cases, but the cir- 
cumstances in which we find it most frequently developed 
de novo are where the individual continuously indulges in 
a diet composed largely of animal food, takes but little 
exercise, and is free in the use of wine or beer. In such a 
case there would seem to be two main factors at work — an 
excess of nitrogenous food with deficient metamorphosis 
and elimination. In other cases the amount of albuminoid 
foods consumed may not be excessive, but the metamorphoses 
are not carried out to completeness. This is a sufficient 
cause of gout in many persons, and especially in those who 
have a marked hereditary predisposition to the disease. 
The worst combination of circumstances is where the 
activity of the liver is deficient and elimination defective, 
and yet the individual, hereditarily predisposed to gout, dis- 
regards dietetic rules and leads a life of inactivity. 

Lead-Poisoning*. — To the above list might be added chronic 
lead-poisoning, the subjects of which are very liable to de- 
velop gout. Fortunately instances embodying such a com- 
bination as we have just enumerated are not very common, 
for though the gouty man may not deny himself good 
living, he is frequently a person of much energy and con- 
siderable activity. Gouty people have often very good 
appetites, and often, up to a certain point, good digestive 
powers. It must not, therefore, be forgotten that the mere 
cutting down of meat in the dietary is not sufficient, if 
they continue to indulge in rich and undigestible dishes, 
and take as a whole more food than is necessary for the 
proper supply of the wants of the system. Although it 
may be doubted whether continued dyspepsia, per se, be 
sufficient to originate the gouty diathesis, there is abundant 



86 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

experience to prove that dyspepsia, sedentary occupations, 
and everything that interferes with the functional activity 
of the different organs of the body, tends to set up the 
disease, and to keep it up in those in whom the predis- 
position to it exists. The continued use of acids, for 
instance, or the taking of foods that tend to the undue 
production of acids during digestion, has a distinctly retard- 
ing effect on the elimination of uric acid, probably owing 
to the diminution of the alkalinity of the blood. Sedentary 
habits have already been spoken of, and other causes of 
imperfect elimination of waste products, such as defective 
action of the kidneys, inaction of the skin, &c, should be 
mentioned, for they are all potent in increasing the gouty 
habit. 

Effect of Wines and Malt Liquors. — The free use of wines 
and malt liquors has undoubtedly a large share in the pro- 
duction of gout and in the keeping up of the gouty state. 
Port wine has been credited with the most powerful in- 
fluence in this direction, but champagne, sherry, madeira, 
burgundy, and all generous wines, have an almost equally 
marked effect. To most gouty subjects all malt liquors 
and ciders are almost as bad ; but in some cases, where a 
very small amount of meat is eaten, a little malt liquor 
seems to be taken with impunity. Many gouty people find 
the use of milk in any considerable quantity, if persevered 
in for a short time, almost as trying to them as wine or 
beer, but there are some with whom, in the absence of 
butcher's meat, it seems to agree. 

As to fruits, some would forbid them altogether to the 
gouty, but I cannot agree with that view. 

Use of Fruits. — Alkalies added to Fruit. — I believe that 
the use of fruits, and especially of cooked fruits, is often 
beneficial, when they are taken in moderation. Very sweet 
and indigestible fruits, however, are not allowed, and there are 
some gouty dyspeptics with whom fruits of all kinds seem 
to disagree. They produce acidity ; but even in the case of 



CHRONIC GOUT. 87 

these persons the difficulty may often be got over by adding 
some bicarbonate of potash to the fruit before it is cooked. 
About an eggspoonful to the pound of ripe fruit, rather more 
in the case of unripe fruits, is sufficient. 

Fats. — Neither do I believe that fats should be excluded 
from, or too much limited in, the dietary of the gouty, 
except in those comparatively rare cases in which they dis- 
agree and cause acidity. • Where fats can be taken without 
upsetting the stomach, they are useful as heat-producers, 
and they have probably less tendency to increase a deposi- 
tion of fat in the body than the carbo-hydrates have. Then, 
again, as to sugar, although uric acid formation cannot be 
traced back to it, gouty persons should be very careful in 
their use of sugar, aud they should altogether avoid ordinary 
sweets and sweet foods, on account of the tendency there 
exists for these materials in the gouty to turn acid. We 
have already seen that excess of acid is a most undesirable 
condition of affairs, and indirectly at least favours the pro- 
duction and continuance of gout in the system. 

Necessity fop Simplicity of Diet. — Limitation of Nitrogenous 
Elements. — In the matter of fruits, however, as in all other- 
details; each case must be studied by itself. No general 
rule can be laid down beyond this, that second only, if in- 
deed it should be put second, to the limitation of nitro- 
genous substances, simplicity of diet is of the first importance, 
and is important, moreover, in several respects. As has 
already been remarked, gouty people have often good appe- 
tites, and they should not be tempted by a variety of dishes ; 
in other words, their meals should be very simple. Dys- 
pepsia, too, is an enemy ever ready to attack the gouty, and 
is. frequently induced by indulgence in a too rich and com- 
plicated diet. While the dietary, then, must be a simple 
one, it must not be insufficient for nutrition, though the 
nitrogenous element should be small. Much animal food, 
therefore, is objectionable, and is so in proportion to its 
richness in nitrogenous material. White flesh, such as 



58 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

chicken and rabbit and fish, is preferable to beef, mutton, 
and lamb. Game, probably, stands midway between the 
strong red and the white meats. Sweetbreads, tripe, calf's 
head and pig's cheek are also admissible ; but veal, pork, 
and all cured meats, with the exception of fat bacon, have 
to be omitted from the dietary. Of fish, the sorts to be 
preferred are the whiting, cod, sole, plaice, trout, and turbot. 
Salmon, herring, eels, mackerel, and all the coarser fish, such 
as pike, hake, and bream, are less desirable. Soups, and 
especially vegetable broths, are not to be prohibited, nor are 
shell-fish to those who can digest them without difficulty. 
Green vegetables, with a few exceptions, such as asparagus 
and tomatoes, are to be freely admitted. 

Eggs, and dishes made with eggs, such as puddings, ome- 
lettes, and custards and cakes, have to be strictly limited. 
The same has to be said of cheese, and in the form of toasted 
cheese, souffles, or ramikins, should not appear in the dietary 
of the gouty. Nuts, dried fruits, and preserves had also 
better be omitted. 

Value of Simple Fluids. — Gouty persons require a con- 
siderable amount of fluid to carry off waste products from 
the system, and it is to this solvent and eliminative action 
that the benefit often obtained in these cases by a course of 
"water treatment," either at home or abroad, is to a great 
extent to be attributed. It is no doubt combined with, and 
aided by, change of air and scene, more or less active exer- 
cise in the open air, early hours, and simple living — all of 
which it is difficult for the patient to keep up at home. 
Under even his ordinary circumstances, however, the gouty 
man may obtain benefit from increasing the quantity of 
simple fluid that he consumes, provided he complies with 
this caution — not to take it at meal-times or directly after 
food. "What is taken with meals should be inconsiderable 
in amount, and should be taken towards the close of the 
meal. A large glass of hot or of cold water, sipped the last 
thing at night and the first thing in the morning, is often of 



CHRONIC GOUT. 89 

immense use by aiding the action of the bowels and liver, 
and helping to carry away excess of waste material. 

Water as a Diuretic. — In an article on the action and use 
of diuretics published some years ago by Dr. Lauder-Brunton, 
he extols the value of pure water as a diuretic and as a 
means of removing waste products. In the case of gouty 
people he is in the habit, he says, of advising that a large 
tumblerful of water, with or without some carbonate or 
nitrate of potash in it, be sipped night and morning. He 
mentions a case in which a friend of his own, who had been 
a martyr to gout, kept himself quite well so long as he 
adhered to a rigid diet of white fish, or of fowl, fat bacon, 
bread and butter, milk-puddings, green vegetables, and a 
little claret. If he omits one or two of the glasses of hot 
water, symptoms of gout speedily show themselves. 

My own experience has been that gouty people and 
persons of constipated habit, in whom also free action of the 
skin is not easily kept up, and who take little liquid beyond 
two or three small cups of tea or coffee in the day, are often 
greatly the better for a morning and evening glass of water 
taken in the manner already mentioned. 

Articles of Diet to be Avoided. — To sum up, then, the 
following articles of diet must be avoided by all those 
whose livers are inadequate, and who have a gouty tendency, 
and it holds good even more strongly in the case of those 
who are actually the subjects of gout in some of its many 
manifestations. 

Of Meats : Pork and veal ; duck and goose ; all dried, 
salted, potted, or preserved meats, with the exception of fat 
bacon. 

Of Fish : Mackerel, pilchard, and eels ; all smoked, salted, 
kippered, or potted fish. 

Eggs, sauces, and pickles, vinegar, lemons, and other acids. 
Tomatoes, asparagus, and rhubarb. Pies and pastry of all 
kinds, "made dishes," blanc-mange, and all preparations 
containing much gelatine ; rich puddings, omelettes, and 



9o FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

cakes containing eggs ; skim-milk cheese ; nuts, dried fruits, 
jams, sweets of all sorts. 

Beverages to be Avoided are : Malt liquor in every form, 
port, madeira, champagne, moselle, burgundy, and all other 
generous wines. 

Articles of Diet to be Used Sparingly. — They must be 
sparing in the use of mutton, lamb, and tender beef (any but 
the tenderest beef is out of the question) ; salmon, herring, 
and mullet, shell-fish ; game ; cheese, mushrooms, broad 
beans ; sugar ; sweet fruits, especially uncooked ; milk ; 
dry sherry and spirits. 

Dietaries — Details of Diet. — Having stated the negative 
side of the question, we give now the diet in detail. 

The first thing in the morning the patient should sip a 
large glass of hot or of cold water. 

Breakfast. — A small piece of white fish or a slice of fat 
bacon with little or no lean, a slice of bread and butter or 
of toast, not buttered hot, and a cup of weak tea with milk. 

Luncheon. — A basin of some vegetable broth or of fish- 
soup, with bread ; or a milk-pudding, such as rice and milk, 
sago and milk, or maccaroni, followed by bread and butter. 
A "lass of water. 

Afternoon Tea. — A cup of tea, or of cocoa nibs, with 
biscuits or toast. 

Dinner. — Fowl or rabbit, pigeon, or game, or calf's head. 
(Mutton or tenderly-dressed beef may be allowed occasion- 
ally.) A little mashed or grated potato. Some green 
vegetables. A little stewed fruit, with milk-pudding or 
shape. 

Beverage. — A couple of glasses of claret, or one to two 
tablespoon fuls of whisky in half a tumblerful of water. 

If it is found more desirable to have the most substantial 
meal in the middle of the day, the above dietary will answer 
if the dinner given be substituted for luncheon, which will 
then serve for supper. 

Half a pint of cold or hot water before going to bed. 



ACUTE GOUT. 91 

Acute Gout. 

All that has been said in the previous section regarding 
the diet in gout applies to the dietetic treatment of the 
gouty diathesis and of gouty patients, between the attacks. 

Restricted Diet during Acute Attacks. — During an acute 
attack the diet must be restricted, but the extent of the 
restriction will depend upon the age, habits, and condition 
of the patient. If the subject of the attack be old and of 
feeble constitution, he will not bear the lowering measures 
that are not only useful but necessary in the case of a young 
and full-blooded person. 

Meat and Alcohol as a Rule Excluded. — As a rule, it is best 
in all cases to exclude meat, more especially red meat, from 
the dietary, and, unless there be some special necessity for 
its use, to forbid also alcohol. In old people, however, 
with feeble circulation, accustomed to the regular and free 
use of alcohol, it will often be necessary to allow a small 
amount, but the quantity should be carefully regulated. 
Not more than from two to four tablespoonfuls of old 
brandy or whisky will in most of these cases be required 
in the twenty-four hours, and the spirit should be given with 
or just after food, well diluted in plain or in potash water. 
If the kidneys be seriously at fault, the use of even this 
small amount of alcohol is of doubtful benefit, and its effect 
must be carefully watched. 

Sthenic Cases. — In a young and strong subject the diet 
should consist mainly of farinaceous substances, and broths, 
made not too strong. In detail the diet may stand as 
follows : — 

8 a.m. — A cupful of bread and milk, or cup of weak tea 
with milk in it, and a slice of dry toast with a little butter. 

10.30 a.m. — A cup of weak vegetable broth, or two 
ounces of milk with Vichy water or potash-water. 

1 o'clock. — Rice, sago, semolina, or other farinaceous pud- 
ding, made without eggs. 



92 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

4 o'clock. — A cup of weak tea with milk and toast. 

7 o'clock. — Broth or some fariuacous pudding as at lunch. 

I o P.M. — A cupful of thin gruel or of arrowroot. 

Hot Watep and Diluents. — He should sip half a pint of 
hot water twice or thrice daily between meals, and barley- 
water or toast-water may also be allowed. After the 
acute symptoms have subsided, boiled fish or a little bit of 
chicken may be given once a day, and the amount of nour- 
ishment otherwise very carefully and gradually increased. 

Asthenic Cases. — In old or feeble and debilitated persons, 
the diets, as already pointed out, although kept on the same 
lines, must be more supporting, and therefore the broths, 
&c, given may be stronger, and beef-tea, chicken-tea, or an 
egg beaten up in milk may be added once a day to the list. 
Alcohol will also be necessary, under the restrictions already 
mentioned. 

Protracted Cases. — If the attack is a long one, the patient 
becoming reduced and the pulse feeble, it will be necessary 
to relax the rules still further, and to allow a somewhat more 
nutritious diet, including fish, soups, and white meats, as 
well as the allowance of brandy or whisky. 



CHAPTER X. 

OBESITY. 

Many persons who are decidedly very stout are yet appa- 
rently healthy, and it is a difficult matter to say at what 
point obesity becomes a morbid condition, though that it 
does so in a certain proportion of cases cannot be denied. 

Whilst a certain plumpness of body is desirable, yet 
an excess of fat, besides being unsightly, is a burden to 
its possessor, and many plans for reducing the superfluous 
fat have at different times been suggested. 

Causes. — (a.) Excess of Food. — Obesity may be due to 
excessive indulgence in food, but this alone is probably 
not a common cause, and, moreover, thin persons are often 
much larger eaters than those who are stout. 

(&.) Alcoholic Beverages, especially malt liquors and sweet 
wines, have a decidedly fattening effect in the case of many 
persons, and corpulent people are often large consumers of 
fluids. 

(c.) Sex and Heredity. — Women more commonly than 
men become very stout, and heredity is to be looked upon 
as an important element in the clinical history of a case. 
Stoutness is to be found prevailing in some families, while 
others are lean, and cannot be fattened by any means. 

(d.) Want of Exercise. — The want of sufficient exercise, 
by diminishing tissue change, favours obesity, and the 
stouter a person grows, the more difficult does the taking of 
exercise become. 

(e.) Goaty Diathesis. — Excessive fatness is also at times 

93 



94 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

associated with the gouty diathesis, and to be effectual in such 
cases, treatment must be directed against that state. 

(/.) Ancemia. — In anaemia, also, there is often a ten- 
dency to unnatural stoutness, which likewise yields to appro- 
priate treatment. 

It is rarely found that very stout people live to a good 
old age, but instances are on record of persons who having 
been very stout, have been able to reduce their corpulence, 
and have lived on. many years in the enjoyment of excellent 
health. If any plan or treatment for the reduction of 
corpulence be adopted, it should be commenced very gradu- 
ally and carried out with great caution. 

Sudden Change Hurtful. — Evil results have often followed 
sudden changes in diet, especially a great increase in the 
nitrogenous materials of the dietary, to the exclusion of the 
carbo-hydrates, by persons desirous of rapidly losing their 
superfluous fat. No sudden change in the mode of life 
should be rashly undertaken, and all extreme measures 
should be avoided. 

Fatty Degeneration. — It is not to be forgotten that the 
heart aud blood vessels in these patients frequently undergo 
fatty change, and also that the kidneys, if not actually dis- 
eased, are often quite inadequate to the strain thrown upon 
them by a diet from which sugar and starches are almost 
entirely excluded, and which, therefore, consists very largely 
of nitrogenous materials. Upon such a diet, however, Mr. 
Banting reduced his weight by over three stones in a year, 
and, moreover, a return to ordinary diet was not followed by 
an increase of weight. The chief objection to the plan called 
after Mr. Banting is that the diet consists too largely of 
nitrogenous substances, and for many stout people it is 
dangerous to throw so much extra work upon the liver, and 
more especially upon the kidneys. 

"Banting." — Mr. Banting, in advocating his plan, forbids 
sugar and starches ; milk and butter ; salmon, herrings, and 
eels ; veal and pork ; potatoes, parsnips, beetroot, turnip, 



OBESITY. . 95 

and carrot ; bread, except when toasted ; pastry and pud- 
dings; beer and stout, champagne and port. He limited 
the quantity of liquids as well as of solids, and in reality a 
comparison of diets will show that his is not more than 
sufficient to maintain life in a state of inactivity. 

His diet was as follows : — 

Breakfast. — Fish, bacon, beef, or mutton; one breakfast 
cupful of tea or coffee without milk or sugar, and one small 
hard biscuit, or one ounce of dry toast. 

Dinner. — Fresh white fish, beef, mutton, lamb, game or 
poultry ; green vegetables ; a slice of dry toast ; cooked 
fruit without sugar ; two to three glasses of claret or of 
sherry. 

Tea. — A cup of tea without milk or sugar ; a biscuit or a 
rusk ; two to three ounces of cooked fruit. 

Stopper. — Meat or fish, with toast, and a couple of glasses 
of claret or of sherry in water. 

The amount of meat allowed at breakfast was five to six 
ounces, a like quantity was permitted at dinner, and about 
half as much at supper. 

Liquids. Solids. 

Breakfast, 6 oz. 9 oz. 

Dinner, 12 „ 10 „ 

Tea, . . . . . . 4 „ 9 „ 

Supper, 4 „ 7 „ 

26 „ 35 „ 

Preponderance of Proteids. — A glance at this dietary 
shows the large preponderance of nitrogenous materials over 
the carbo-hydrates, and also the fact that the diet is a very 
spare one. 

Ebstein's Diet. — Another plan, and one which has the 
recommendation of more variety, while it is also free from 
some at least of the objections of that followed by Mr. 
Banting, has been proposed by Professor Ebstein of Got- 
tingen. He excludes carbo-hydrates, sugar, all sweets, and 
potatoes. Bread is limited to about three ounces a day. 



96 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Besides potatoes, he excludes carrots, turnips, parsnips, and 
beetroot; but allows asparagus, spinach, cabbage, and the 
leguminose vegetables freely. No sort of meat is prohibited, 
and he allows the fat as well as the lean to be eaten. 

Professor Ebstein does not set strict limits to the 
quantity of liquid consumed, and he believes that the rules 
are better kept in the main, and in the most important 
points, if some articles of diet which strictly would be 
forbidden — for example, potatoes — are allowed in very 
moderate quantities. The diet is thus kept from being so 
irksome, and the patient is able to persevere longer with 
it than he could otherwise do. It will be observed that in 
this plan, while the fats are not excluded, the rule against 
the carbo-hydrates is very strict. 

Gradual Change. — In most cases it will be well not to 
be too rigid, for the reasons already mentioned, and it can- 
not be too strongly insisted upon that the change of diet 
should be made gradually. Sugar, sweets, puddings, pastry, 
cakes, cream, sweet wines, stout and beer, should all be cut 
off. All farinaceous articles should be gradually reduced. 
Brown bread and toast in limited quantities should be sub- 
stituted for ordinary bread, or its place may be partially 
taken by gluten bread. Lean meats, including poultry and 
game, also eggs, should be taken in moderation. Fish may 
enter largely into the dietary, and all green vegetables, 
salads, and cooked fruits may also be allowed. As already 
said, all malt liquors and sweet wines must be excluded. 
Hock, claret, or other light wine may be allowed to the 
extent of three or four glasses a day, or a small quantity of 
spirits in water may be permitted ; but the total quantity 
of liquid taken in the twenty-four hours should not exceed 
two and a half or three pints. 

The corpulent should be encouraged to take exercise, and 
especially exercise in the open air ; but any violent exertion 
is most undesirable, from the strain it would put on the heart 
and blood vessels. 



CHAPTEE XI. 
DISEASES OF THE LUNGS AND PLEURA. 

General Contents : Pulmonary Phthisis — Asthma — Pulmonary Emphysema 
— Chronic Bronchitis — Pleurisy with Effusion. 

Pulmonary Phthisis. 

As in struma, digestive disturbances, with evidences of mal- 
assimilation and mal- nutrition, frequently precede the direct 
manifestations of the diathesis ; so in cases of pulmonary 
phthisis, we are accustomed to see the signs of lung-mischief 
preceded, often for some considerable time, by chronic dys- 
pepsia, with a disordered state of system and a lowered 
standard of health. 

Wasting 1 . — Phthisis is essentially a wasting disease, and 
the great object of all treatment, dietetic, therapeutic, and 
climatic, is to raise the standard of nutrition. 

Niemeyer puts it thus : " Prophylaxis against consumption 
requires, in the first place, that when an individual shows 
signs of defective nutrition and a feeble constitution, espe- 
cially if already he have given positive evidence of unusual 
delicacy, with a tendency to diseases which result in caseous 
products, he should be placed, if possible, under influences 
calculated to invigorate the constitution and to extinguish 
such morbid tendency." 

Insufficient Diet. — " Among the influences by which a liabi- 
lity to consumption is acquired, or by which a congenital 
predisposition to it is aggravated, that of an insufficient or 
improper diet stands first." 

Impaired Nutrition. — Where the difficulty of insufficient 

97 G 



9$ FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

food does not meet us, we have often to face a condition of 
chronic indigestion, aggravated, it may be, by improper diet- 
ing. The quantity of the food may be ample, but the quality 
may be such as cannot be assimilated by the weakened diges- 
tive organs. The food may be too rich, too bulky, or too 
coarse. The result is the same in each case, namely, im- 
paired nutrition. In a word, the diet must be adapted to 
the powers of the constitution at the time, and it must be 
of the highest nutritive value that can be digested. 

Small Meals. — In regulating the quantity and quality of 
the food, especially during exacerbations of the malady, the 
rule that a little thoroughly assimilated is better than a 
larger amount only half digested, must be kept prominently 
in view. In the majority of cases, it will be found that the 
quantity of food given at a time must be less than in health, 
and consequently the intervals between the supplies must 
likewise be shortened. Consumptives find that a large meal 
lies heavy on the stomach, and often gives rise to distressing 
flatulence with acid eructations. 

Distaste for Fat with Progressive Emaciation an Unfavour- 
able Prognosis. — An unconquerable dislike to fatty articles 
of diet is an almost constant accompaniment of this disease ; 
but fat bacon, butter, and cod-liver oil can often be taken 
without difficulty after the fat of fresh meat has become 
distasteful. The repugnance to fat seems to be associated 
with an inability on the part of the system to digest fatty 
foods, and coincident with this we usually find progressive 
emaciation taking place. Where the digestive functions are 
fairly vigorous, and fatty articles of diet are not rejected, 
the outlook is not nearly so bad as where the opposite 
conditions exist. In those cases, however, where dyspepsia 
is severe and intractable, and especially where there is a 
strong dislike to fats, with an almost entire inability on 
the part of the system to digest them, a hopeful prognosis 
cannot be given. In all stages of the disease it is necessary 
to keep as watchful an eye on the digestive functions as on 



PULMONARY PHTHISIS. 99 

the state of the chest, and quiescence of lung symptoms, 
without improvement in nutrition, should not satisfy us. 

Improved Nutrition the Object of all Treatment. — When 
we come to consider the details of dietaries for these patients, 
we shall see that they must vary from time to time accord- 
ing to the condition of the patients, but under all circum- 
stances improved nutrition is our aim and object. When 
the patient is confined to his room or to bed, the greatest 
care should be bestowed upon the sick-room cookery. 

Daintiness of Sick-Room Cookery. — Food must be served 
in the daintiest and most appetising ways, and not too much 
at a time. Usually it is well that the patient should not 
know what is coming ; a little pleasant surprise sometimes 
aids a doubtful appetite. Even when all these conditions 
are most favourable, appetite must not always be relied 
upon as a safe guide, for we not infrequently find that the 
system is able to digest and assimilate more food than the 
slender appetite would incline the patient to take. 

Temporary Restriction of Diet. — While insisting thus 
strongly on the necessity for as liberal a diet as possible, it 
is not to be forgotten that there are times when the diet 
must be temporarily restricted; as, for example, when the 
tongue becomes furred, and when such symptoms as nausea, 
feverishness, and hurried respiration show themselves. Then 
it is time to limit the amounts of red meat and of stimulant, 
and altogether to simplify the dietary. 

Milk Diet. — If gastric disturbance is severe, it will be 
controlled much more speedily by restricting the patient 
for the time being to a diet composed entirely of milk and 
prepared farinaceous foods, given in small quantities at 
frequent intervals. If we are very hard pressed, it may 
be necessary to give little or no food by the mouth, and to 
resort to the use of nutrient enemata, but the danger of 
diarrhoea being set up, or of its being increased if it has 
already appeared, renders feeding by enemata a difficult 
proceeding. 



ioo FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

In some cases nutrient suppositories are well retained 
and are less irritating. Kubbing the body with oil may in 
extreme circumstances help to sustain life, but the discom- 
fort is great, and in the case of cod-liver oil, at least, the 
smell is a great objection. Neat's-foot-oil and olive-oil are 
in respect of smell less objectionable, but they are not so 
effective. 

Pure Milk. — Milk, good unskimmed country milk, should 
enter largely into the dietary of the consumptive. Some 
patients can drink milk warm from the cow and digest it 
well. One advantage of taking milk in this way obviously 
is that it cannot be skimmed, and patients, therefore, get 
the full nutritive value of the milk. Many, however, can 
take milk only when diluted, for example, with hot water or 
with an aerated water, or when boiled and with some fari- 
naceous material in it. 

Diluted Milk and Whey. — When difficulty is experienced 
in digesting milk in the ordinary form, it should be diluted 
with an aerated water or with hot barley-water, or it may 
be peptonised. Other plans for taking milk have been 
recommended, such as, for example, the " whey-cure ; " but 
here the caseine being precipitated, and therefore lost to the 
patient, is a decided disadvantage ; and whey should be given 
only when milk in other forms absolutely disagrees. 

Koumiss. — Koumiss, the fermented milk of mares, was 
introduced into this country some years ago from Kussia, 
and has obtained reputation as a beverage of considerable 
nutritive value in phthisis. Koumiss can be made at home 
from cow's milk, skimmed or unskimmed, the former closely 
resembling that made from mare's milk ; the latter some- 
what richer than the Kussian koumiss, and therefore more 
nutritious where it can be digested. 

Cod-Liver Oil. — Cod-liver oil has come to be regarded as 
an invaluable adjunct to the treatment of phthisis, and 
undoubtedly in many cases it is of the utmost use. It does 
not, however, suit all patients. Some have a great repug- 



PULMONARY PHTHISIS. 101 

nance to it, and if this continues, with loss of appetite, the 
oil should not be persevered with. Although not the best 
form of fat, the readiness with which cod-liver oil is usually- 
digested is a very great point in its favour, and it need not, 
as a rule, interfere with the taking of a plentiful supply of 
milk. 

Times for taking Cod-Liver Oil. — The time at which cod- 
liver oil is taken is of importance. Some patients can take 
it easily at any time without its upsetting their digestion, 
but most find that to take it an hour or an hour and a half 
after meals is most agreeable. Theoretically, also, this is 
the best time, for digestion has so far advanced that the 
oil will not be long retained in the stomach, but will be 
passed on to be digested with the other fatty constituents 
of the food. Sometimes, for convenience' sake, the oil is 
taken immediately after meals, but where any difficulty in 
digesting it when taken soon after food occurs, the other 
plan should be tried. The quantity to be begun with should 
be small, as a rule not more than a teaspoonful twice a day, 
and this may gradually be increased to a dessert- or a table- 
spoonful twice daily. A few patients find that they can 
best take the oil in a single dose at bedtime. 

Vehicles for Cod-Liver Oil. — As already said, many 
patients can take cod-liver oil easily ; some seem to take it 
almost eagerly without admixture of any kind ; but others 
prefer it shaken up in hot milk, or in a little fresh lemon- 
juice. Orange- wine or brandy and vegetable bitters, such 
as gentian and calumba, are also pleasant vehicles to some ; 
and for children the syrup of the iodide of iron, or Parish's 
chemical food, answers well. From 10 to 20 minims of 
ether added to the dose of oil seem in some cases to increase 
its digestibility, and the same effect is produced by adding 
a small quantity of pancreatine powder or pancreatine wine, 
or by making it into an emulsion with liquor potassa, and 
disguising the taste by a drop or two of oil of cloves or 
of oil of cassia. Various combinations of cod-liver oil emul- 



io2 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

sified with malt extracts are sold, and form valuable pre- 
parations. It should also be remembered that in some 
exceptional cases the less refined forms of oil are better 
borne than the paler, purer oils. 

Substitutes for Cod-Liver Oil. — Where cod-liver oil cannot 
be taken, mutton-suet, finely minced and dissolved in warm 
milk, is a useful substitute, and other oils, though far in- 
ferior to cod-liver oil in nutritive value, should be given 
where cod-liver oil causes too great repugnance, or where it 
manifestly disagrees. 

Malt Extracts. — Next to cod-liver oil as additions to the 
ordinary dietary come malt extracts, which by their aid in 
the digestion of starches are oftentimes useful ; and they may 
be given either plain or in milk, in effervescing waters, or in 
milk-puddings. In this connection, also, should be men- 
tioned cream of malt, pancreatic emulsion, and similar pre- 
parations. As in other diseases where the digestive powers 
are feeble, prepared farinaceous foods are of great value, and 
the addition of liquor pancreaticus or of liquor pepticus 
helps greatly the complete assimilation of the food. In this 
way peptonised milk, peptonised gruel, peptonised beef-tea or 
soup (Iiecipes 74-78), and peptonised enemata (Recipe yg) 
are valuable resources. 

Alcohol. — Bearing in mind the all-important fact that 
imperfect nutrition is the great difficulty against which we 
have to contend, we shall be guided in our use of alcoholic 
beverages by the effect they have upon digestion in each 
particular case. In early stages of the disease, and where 
food is well taken, they are, as a rule, not required to any 
great extent, or, if given at all, they should be combined 
with food, and the result carefully watched. If they do not 
unduly flush and excite the patient, and if the digestion of 
food is manifestly increased by their use, if more exercise 
can be taken with comfort, and a sense of general well-being 
is produced, we may be satisfied that they are doing good. 
If they produce opposite effects, the quantity taken is too 



PULMONARY PHTHISIS. 103 

large, or else they are altogether contra-indicated. The form 
of alcoholic stimulant is another important point, and one 
that cannot be decided on general grounds. Some patients 
do best on a glass of bitter ale with luncheon and with 
dinner, or with a glass of stout at these times. For others, 
some light wine, such as claret, hock, or chablis, is more 
suitable ; others still can take only a small quantity of 
spirits, a tablespoonful of brandy in a beaten-up egg, or 
a like quantity of rum in milk, or of whisky in water ; 
and in our selection we must be guided by individual ex- 
perience. 

Diet of Delicate Children. — In regard to children, the 
greatest attention should be paid to the diet of those who 
have inherited, or who by untoward circumstances have 
acquired, a feeble constitution, with more or less tendency 
to strumous manifestations, lest these be the forerunners of 
the phthisis that will show itself later in life. A consump- 
tive mother should never nurse her own infant, and for such 
an one a good wet-nurse is far better than rearing by bottle. 
If, however, the bringing up of the child by bottle be un- 
avoidable, it should, if possible, be reared in the country, 
and, failing that, great pains should be taken to secure the 
milk of a healthy, country-fed cow. 

Value of Milk. — During the early months of its life, milk 
must be its sole food, and, later on, should still be the staple 
of its diet. Its place should never be taken by " pap," as it 
too often largely is, but some of the prepared farinaceous 
foods, mixed with the milk, may be used so long as the 
quantity of milk itself is not diminished. As soon as the 
child is old enough to masticate, it may be allowed biscuits 
and bread and butter, and taught to chew them weil, in 
order to aid the development of the salivary secretions and 
to encourage the drinking of milk. A little tenderly-dressed 
meat, some well-boiled, tender, green vegetables and stewed 
fruits, all of which carry with them useful salts, should early 
enter into the dietary of such children. 



104 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Hygienic Measures. — It need hardly be added that every 
means to improve the appetite and invigorate the constitution 
generally should be fully carried out. Plenty of fresh air in 
rooms, an open-air life as far as that can be secured, freedom 
from continuous study, and removal, when it is possible, 
to such a climate as will permit of many hours of the day 
in winter being spent out of doors, are most valuable acces- 
sories. All this applies equally, and even more strongly, if 
possible, to the period of growth succeeding childhood in 
girls and youths of delicate constitution. An open-air life, 
with plenty of every kind of healthful exercise, an abundant 
but simple diet, and limited hours of study, give such young 
people the best chance of escape, and often work wonders 
in building up the constitution. ' 

Dietary. — A diet such as the following will be suitable : — 

The first thing in the morning, a cupful of warm milk, or 
of milk warmed. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m. — Porridge (oatmeal, whole meal, or 
hominy) and good milk ; a slice of fat bacon or an egg, with 
brown bread and butter, and a cup of cocoa. 

1 1 a.m. — A cup of milk and a small biscuit. 

1.30. — Any plainly-cooked meat, mashed potato, and 
well-boiled green vegetables, simple pudding, and stewed 
fruit. 

4.30. — A cup of cocoa and a slice of brown bread and 
butter. 

7 o'clock. — A cupful of bread and milk, or of milk with 
bread and butter, and an egg if there has been plenty of air 
and exercise. 

In some cases it will be desirable to give from one to 
two teaspoonfuls of cod-liver oil an hour or so after break- 
fast, and again after the evening meal ; or to give a teaspoon- 
ful of malt extract with the midday and evening meals. 

The diet we should advise for an adult threatened with 
consumption is as follows : — 

Early in the morning a cup of milk with the chill taken 



PULMONARY PHTHISIS. 105 

off, or a cup of milk flavoured with tea, and a slice of thin 
bread and butter. 

Breakfast, 9 a.m. — Fat bacon, fish, or eggs, or eggs and 
bacon, with brown bread and butter, cafd au lait, or cocoa 
and milk. 

1 o'clock. — Chicken, game, or light meat, mashed potato, 
and green vegetables, such as spinach or tender cabbage. 
Milk-pudding, or shape or custard, with cooked fruit. A 
glass of light bitter ale, or a couple of glasses of light 
wine. 

4.30. — A cup of tea, half milk, bread and butter, or 
plain cake. 

7 o'clock. — A meal like the midday dinner. 

Before going to 'bed, a glass of milk, or of prepared 
farinaceous food with milk, with or without a tablespoonful 
of spirit, as the circumstances may indicate. 

Modification of Diet — This diet must be modified to suit 
each special case. For example, if the patient cannot take 
the early morning milk without losing his appetite fox- 
breakfast, let him have an early light breakfast, and at 1 1 
A.M. a cup of soup or of broth with toast or a biscuit. Again, 
if the evening meal is preferred early, let it be taken say 
at 6.30, and then give about 9.30 a cup of rusks and 
milk or of arrowroot, with a tablespoonful of spirit. 
Arrowroot and brandy will answer well when there is any 
tendency to diarrhoea ; and when such is the case, the green 
vegetables and fruit will have to be omitted for the time 
being. Moreover, if there be much dyspepsia, the diet may 
have to be still further simplified, and divided into smaller 
meals at shorter intervals. 

Where the disease has become established, but there is 
an absence of fever, the following will serve as a type on 
which to work out a dietary suitable for the special case : — 

7 a.m. — A cup of milk, with a tablespoonful of rum or 
other spirit in it, or a cup of milk with a little tea in it, and 
a slice of thin bread and butter. 



io6 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Breakfast, 8.30. — Eggs, or egg and bacon, or fish with a 
little melted butter, or porridge and cream, bread and butter, 
a cup of cafe au lait or of cocoa. 

1 1 A.M. — A small cup of soup or of beef-tea, thickened 
with some farinaceous material. 

Early Dinner, 1 clock. — Any tender well-cooked meat, 
especially mutton, chicken, game, with mashed potato, and 
green vegetables of the tenderer sorts ; any simple pudding 
or stewed fruit. 

Beverage. — Half a pint of light bitter ale or of stout, or 
a couple of glasses of claret or of chablis. 

4.30. — A cup of cocoatina, or of tea with plenty of milk, 
and a slice of bread and butter, or cake or plain biscuit. 

7 o'clock. — A light but good meal of fish or chicken, or 
sweatbread or tripe, with dry boiled rice or bread ; plain 
cream or jelly, a couple of glasses of light wine, or two 
tablespoonfuls of spirit in a little water. 

9.30-10. — A cupful of prepared farinaceous food, or of 
arrowroot with a tablespoonful of brandy in it. 

Hectic Stage. — During the continuance of fever, and in 
the later stages of consumption generally, the diet, as has 
already been pointed out, must be greatly simplified and 
limited mainly to liquid food. Moreover, since the quantity 
taken at a time will be small, the intervals between the 
supplies must be short — two hours, or even less. It is often 
well to adhere to the hours of ordinary meals, and to give the 
other supplies as intermediates. Although there may not be 
much difference in quantity or even in the kind of food, still 
it is less monotonous for the patient. Milk with an egg 
beaten up, or some malt extract or spirits in it, mutton or 
chicken broth, or beef-tea, thickened with some farinaceous 
food, lightly-boiled eggs, sweat-bread, chicken, game, and fish, 
with custard, jellies, and plain puddings, will give variety 
to the meals. It is often well to peptonise the milk, or to 
dilute it with barley-water, or even with an aerated water. 
Alcohol is most useful at this stage of the disease, and 



PULMONARY PHTHISIS. 107 

generally agrees best in the form of old spirit or of dry 
sherry, niarsala or of a light port. 

Thus, early in the morning (an hour and a half to two 
hours before breakfast), a glass of milk warm, with a table- 
spoonful of milk or of brandy in it. 

Breakfast, 8.30. — A cup of weak tea with milk, or of 
cafe au lait with an egg beaten up in it, with some thin 
bread and butter, or toast and butter, or rusk, or, if the 
patient prefers it, an egg lightly boiled or poached on toast, 
with a small cup of tea filled up with cream. 

10.30 a.m. — A cup of "whole" beef-tea, or of good soup 
or broth, with a finger of toast. 

Luncheon, 1 o'clock. — A bit of chicken or chicken panada, 
or sweetbread, or white fish with rice or bread, a spoonful 
of blanc-mange, or jelly, or plain cream. A glass of wine 
or a tablespoonful of spirit in a claret-glassful of water. 

4 o'clock. — A cup of tea as at breakfast, or of cocoa and 
milk (preferably peptonised), or of milk and Mellin's food. 

Dinner, 6.30. — A meal like luncheon, but of course 
varied as much as possible. Chicken, rabbit, sweetbread 
or bird, or fish, such as sole or whiting, with a little melted 
butter ; a spoonful of custard or of milk-pudding, a glass of 
wine or a tablespoonful of spirit as at luncheon. 

9.30-10. — A cupful of arrowroot, or of some prepared 
farinaceous food, with milk and a tablespoonful of brandy. 
Some peptonised milk or prepared food, kept warm under a 
cosey or heated by a spirit lamp, should be within reach 
during the night. 

Diarrhoea. — Diarrhoea, occurring in the course of phthisis, 
calls fur careful attention and demands strict dieting. It 
will often be sufficient to exclude from the dietary, for the 
time being, fruits, vegetables, brown bread, broths, and soups; 
to limit the amount of meat, and to give chiefly milk, pre- 
pared farinaceous foods, arrowroot, and brandy, taking care 
that the quantity given at a time is small, and that nothing 
is taken either hot or very cold. For further details of 



io8 • FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

treatment, the reader is referred to the section on Diarrhoea 

(P- 34). 

Constipation. — Constipation is sometimes troublesome in 
phthisis, and it should be dealt with as directed in a special 
section dealing with that subject (p. 33). It must, how- 
ever, be remembered that there almost invariably exists a 
great tendency to irritability and catarrh of the bowels, 
not to speak of ulceration, and that therefore the greatest 
care should be exercised, lest by treating constipation too 
vigorously, the opposite condition of diarrhoea be set up. 

Asthma. 

In most cases of asthma, apart from those that merit the 
distinctive title of " peptic," dietetic measures greatly aid 
medicinal treatment. 

Digestive Disorders. — Even if some error of diet be not 
the immediate exciting cause of the attack, a disordered 
condition of the digestive organs sooner or later ensues, and 
greatly aggravates the patient's state. Asthmatics are more 
or less dyspeptics, and they must be treated as such. Their 
diet should be carefully regulated. Bulky foods should be 
avoided, and not only the kind of food taken, but the times 
of eating must be specialiy arranged. Breakfast and mid- 
day dinner should be the chief meals, and no such thing 
as a regular late dinner or supper is to be permitted. 

Small Evening Meals. — A small early evening meal of 
the simplest sort only can with safety be allowed. As a 
general rule, bulky green vegetables, much fruit, and any 
large quantity of starchy foods, which might distend the 
stomach and bowels, are to be carefully excluded from the 
dietary of the asthmatic, and he should be warned against 
taking much liquid of any kind with meals. Tea, effer- 
vescing beverages, and soups are to be taken, if at all, in 
the strictest moderation, while of meats, mutton, chicken, 
game, and fish are to be preferred to the less digestible forms. 



ASTHMA. too 

Alcohol. — Alcoholic stimulants are necessary in cases 
where there is much depression and weakness, and where 
they seem to aid digestion, but their use is to be most 
carefully watched and limited. Strong coffee is so useful 
to many asthmatics at the time of a paroxysm, that its 
habitual use is not recommended, since this would tend to 
lessen the benefit derived from it at those times. 

What has just been said regarding the. diet of asthmatics 
generally applies with even greater force when they happen 
to be placed in circumstances that notably favour an attack. 

Dietary. — The following may be taken as the type of a 
diet embodying the important points suggested above : — 

Breakfast. — Fresh fish, or chicken, or game, or bacon, or 
egg and bacon, with toast or brown bread and butter, and 
one cup of cocoa nibs. 

Early Dinner (four to five hours after breakfast). — A plain 
substantial meal of two courses. Fish and meat, or meat and 
pudding; any tender well-cooked meat with a little green 
vegetable well boiled and mashed, plain pudding, or shape 
and stewed fruit. 

Beverage. — A glass of water, with or without a glass of 
some light wine, or a small glass of bitter ale. 

Evening Meal, 6 or 6.30. — An egg lightly boiled and a 
slice of bread and butter, or an egg beaten up in milk and 
a biscuit, or a cupful of prepared farinaceous food, such as 
Mellin's or Benger's. 

Modification of Diet. — It may be difficult at first for the 
patient to get accustomed to having no more substantial food 
in the latter part of the day, but the benefit usually derived 
from a plan such as the above will reconcile him to the 
change, and a sufficiency of nutriment being taken at the 
morning and midday meals, the light evening repast will 
prevent a feeling of exhaustion and sleeplessness. At first, 
however, it may be necessary with some patients to let them 
down easily by permitting a cup of cocoa or weak tea to be 
taken about five o'clock, and a small evening meal like the 



no FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

above given at seven, assuming that the patient does not go 
to bed till ten or later. The evening meal, however, should 
in any case be taken at least three hours before bedtime. 



Pulmonary Emphysema. 

"While the treatment of pulmonary emphysema resolves 
itself largely into the question of treating the complications 
and secondary conditions that sooner or later manifest them- 
selves, the diathesis of the patient should be kept prominently 
in view, and every means should be employed to improve 
the general health. In this way degenerative changes may 
be retarded or checked, even if past mischief cannot be 
repaired. 

Gout. — If the patient be gouty, he must be dieted accord- 
ingly, only it should be borne in mind that in permissible 
things he is not to be too greatly stinted. 

Cod-Liver Oil. — In addition to ordinary simple nourish- 
ing foods, cod-liver oil may often be given with advantage, 
especially in cold weather. 

State of the Lungs. — Attention to the state of the system 
generally is most important, and while the condition of the 
digestive organs, the action of the skin and bowels, the in- 
fluence of fresh air with gentle exercise, and the effects of 
climate, must each and all be kept in view, the state of the 
lungs themselves must not be forgotten or overlooked. With 
usually a considerable decrease in size, there is always dimi- 
nished activity of, and retarded circulation throughout, the 
lungs, and consequently a corresponding diminution in the 
processes of oxygenation. Add to this the fact that the 
patients are restricted in muscular activity, and it is evident 
that the diet must be adapted to the altered circumstances 
if the patient is to be saved unnecessary discomfort and 
increased dyspnoea. 

Diet as for Asthmatics, — In many respects the rules laid 
down for the diet of asthmatics will be found suitable in 



CHRONIC BRONCHITIS. in 

the cases now under consideration. In most points the 
diets will be similar, and more particularly in those in- 
stances, and they are not a few, where there exists a marked 
tendency to spasmodic dyspnoea. The diet should in all 
cases be nutritious, and it should be somewhat concentrated, 
although at the same time due regard must be had to variety 
and to promoting the action of the bowels. Care must be 
exercised that the stomach and bowels be not distended by 
bulky articles of diet, inasmuch as such distention is a 
fruitful source of dyspnoea. The meals must be small, and 
the main portion of the food should be taken early in the 
day, no late dinners or heavy suppers being permitted. 
(See Asthma, p. 108.) 

Chronic Bronchitis. 

As regards the diet in cases of chronic bronchitis, it may 
be said in a general way that lowering measures are not 
called for, and that the patient requires a liberal supply of 
light, nourishing food. 

Diathesis. — The question of the patient's diathesis must 
likewise be taken into account. A gouty tendency is fre- 
quently present, and must not be overlooked in arranging 
the dietary. Moreover, the condition of the liver and of the 
kidneys demands consideration ; and lastly, a very important 
point is the question of cardiac complications. In cases 
where the heart is weak, or where there is chronic valvular 
insufficiency, the directions given for the dietary of such 
patients (see chapter on Chronic Heart Disease) should be 
followed. 

Dietary. — Regarding uncomplicated cases of chronic bron- 
chitis, while the food should be simple, light, and easy of 
digestion, it should not be bulky, and the amount of liquid 
in the dietary should be small. 

Dry Diet. — A somewhat dry diet helps in many cases to 
diminish abnormal secretion, and for the details of such a 



112 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

diet the reader is again referred to the section on chronic 
cardiac diseases. 

This applies also to cases of bronchiectasis. 



Pleurisy with Effusion. 

Active measures for promoting the absorption of the fluid 
are usually resorted to, but it is frequently forgotten that 
great benefit may accrue from a reasonable limitation of 
the amount of fluid that the patient is allowed to consume. 
In dieting a case of this nature, the facts to be kept chiefly 
in view are the necessity that exists for maintaining the 
patient's strength, and for promoting the absorption of the 
fluid. Fiegarding the latter point, it is scarcely necessary to 
point out that free elimination by the kidneys, skin, and 
bowels is of comparatively little use if the amount of fluid 
taken into the system be not diminished. 

Dry Diet — This necessity for limiting the liquid part of 
the diet is not usually made prominent by writers on the 
treatment of pleurisy, and it has not received the attention 
it deserves. Patients find it difficult at first to limit the 
quantity of liquid taken in the twenty-four hours ; but if the 
plan be not pushed too much at first, and if the object of 
the restriction be pointed out, the necessary curtailment can 
usually be secured without difficulty, and, after the first day 
or two, without discomfort. 

Diaphoretics, Diuretics, and Purgatives. — It has been re- 
commended that this treatment by dry diet should be tried 
only after the use of diaphoretics, diuretics, and purgatives 
has failed, but there is no reason why in most cases it should 
not be tried first, or in combination with other means, and 
not as a last resouree before tapping the chest. Diuretics 
are uncertain in their action, and strong purgatives of the 
drastic class are trying to the patient, besides being in 
some cases absolutely contra-indicated ; but free diaphoresis, 



PLEURISY. 113 

as, for example, by jaborandi, is undoubtedly useful in many 
instances. 

It must not be understood that in advising a dry diet 
the total exclusion of liquids from the dietary is advocated. 
Such a diet is extremely irksome and trying to the patients. 
By some it cannot be borne ; in fact, they would rather have 
thoracentesis at once performed, and, under proper precau- 
tion, that operation may be considered perfectly safe. Even 
after withdrawal of the fluid, however, a moderately dry 
diet is useful, especially in cases where there is a tendency 
to re-accumulation. 

Dietary. — In detail the diet recommended is as follows : — 

8 a.m. — An egg or a piece of bacon with toast, and one 
small teacupful of cocoa, or a cupful of bread and milk (the 
milk being about a teacupful). 

1 0.30- 1 1. — Three or four little sandwiches of pounded 
chicken and bread, with a small glass of wine. 

1 -1. 30. — Fresh white fish, or panada of chicken or game, 
or a piece of boiled chicken with a spoonful of mashed 
potato and a little well-boiled green vegetable. Following 
this, if the appetite is good, a few spoonfuls of any light 
pudding. 

Beverage. — From one to two glasses of light wine, such as 
hock, chablis, or claret. 

4.30—5. — A small cup of milk or of cocoa, or of weak 
tea, with a slice of thin bread and butter. 

7—7.30. — A meal like the midday one. 

10.30. — A teacupful of arrowroot, with a dessert-spoon- 
ful of brandy in it, or a teacupful of Mellin's or of other 
farinaceous food. 

In long-continued cases, and in weakly persons, cod- 
liver oil is a valuable addition to the dietary. 



CHAPTEE XII. 
DISEASES OP THE HEART. 

General Contents : Chronic Valvular Heart Disease — Weak Heart— Fatty 
Heart — Aortic Aneurism. 

Chronic Valvular Heart Disease, Weak Heart, 
and Fatty Heart. 

In cases of valvular disease of the heart, so long as com- 
pensation is maintained, the patient does not suffer from the 
valvular insufficiency, and he may even be perfectly unaware 
that his heart is affected at all. So soon, however, as the 
compensation becomes disturbed, the balance of the circula- 
tion is destroyed, and the mechanical effects of such a con- 
dition manifest themselves. 

Symptoms. — The pressure in the systemic arteries becomes 
less, and that in the veins greater, causing in a very short 
time a back tide on the lungs, the liver, the stomach, and 
the whole portal circulation. 

Flatulence, with Inactive Liver and Bowels. — The patient 
complains of a feeling of fulness and weight in the stomach. 
The liver is inactive, and the bowels are very sluggish in 
their action. Flatulence is often very troublesome ; the 
urine, somewhat diminished in amount in the earlier stages, 
is loaded with urates; in the later ones it is scanty and 
contains also albumen. How can we in such a case help 
our patient by the regulation of his diet ? 

Selection of Food. — Two things are evident : the food must 
be easy of digestion, and it must not be bulky. If the food 

IT4 



CHRONIC HEART DISEASE. 115 

be slow in digesting or bulky in character, flatulence, which 
we .have already said is often a very troublesome symptom 
in such cases, will be increased, and as a direct result there 
will be impeded action of the heart, with all its distressing 
consequences. 

Directions. — Food, then, must be given in the most easily- 
digested forms, in comparatively small quantities, and at 
moderate intervals. 

(a.) Early Stage. — If the patient has sought advice early, 
before the pathological conditions above mentioned have 
become marked, it will suffice for his comfort and well- 
being that we direct him to divide his supplies of Food into 
four small meals a day, and to eat red meat only once a 
day, and that at the principal meal ; to make the evening 
meal a light one ; to limit the quantity of liquid taken at 
meals, as well as the whole amount taken in the twenty -four 
hours ; and to avoid everything difficult of digestion. Under 
this head we shall class cured meats, pork, salted or smoked 
fish, shell-fish, pastry, rich puddings, much or strong tea and 
coffee, and all effervescing beverages. 

Later Stages. — When the early stage has been passed 
before the patient comes under our care, we shall have to 
select carefully the most suitable articles of diet for his 
particular case, and we must with equal care regulate the 
times of eating, and the quantity of food taken at a time. 
Tiie meals must be small and the intervals short. Some 
food must be given before the patient undergoes the fatigue 
of dressing, and therefore we order a light breakfast in bed. 

8 a.m. — A lightly boiled egg or a small piece of fresh 
white fish, with two small slices of dry toast and a little 
butter ; one small cup of tea, not strong, and with plenty of 
milk in it. If the egg cannot easily be taken in any other 
form, it may be beaten up in the tea ; and should there be 
much exhaustion, it is well to add a teaspoonful of brandy. 

1 1 a.m. — A teacupful of strong soup with a finger of 
toast, or half a glass of port wine with a small biscuit, will 



n6 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

dispel the fatigue apt to follow upon the exertions of the 
morning toilette. 

I— 1.30 (this should be the chief meal of the day). — 
The lighter meats must be chosen, roast or boiled mutton, 
about four ounces, or a mutton chop or a plain cutlet, may 
be varied by the occasional introduction into the dietary of a 
like quantity of fresh minced meat, or the wing of a chicken, 
or calf's head or pig's cheek. Green vegetables are usually 
contra-indicated on account of the flatulence, which they 
increase, but a little mashed spinach, French beans, cauli- 
flower, or vegetable marrow will often be well borne. This 
same tendency to flatulence leads such patients to indulge 
rather freely in mustard, pepper, and other condiments ; but 
great care must be exercised in their use, owing to the risk 
of gastric catarrh. Briefly, then, dinner will consist of a 
slice of roast or of boiled mutton, or a mutton chop, or a 
slice of pig's cheek or of calf s head, with a spoonful of well- 
cooked vegetable. Following this may come a few spoonfuls 
of any plain milk-pudding, seasoned with cloves or cin- 
namon, or a baked apple with a spoonful of custard. 

Beverage. — From a dessert- to a table-spoonful of old spirit 
in a claret-glassful of water, sipped towards the close of 
the meal. 

5 o'clock. — The afternoon cup of tea will be looked forward 
to, and need not ordinarily be forbidden, but it must be one 
cup only, with a slice of toast and butter, or of stale bread 
and butter. 

7.30 p.m. — Dinner may consist of an egg lightly boiled 
or poached on toast, or a little bit of fresh white fish, such 
as sole, whiting, or plaice ; or tripe in white sauce with 
bread ; also sweetbread, simply cooked (not braised), makes 
a pleasant variety (Recipes 48-51). 

Beverage. — A tablespoonful of old spirit in a little water, 
as at the midday meal. 

A full evening meal always leads to trouble in these 
cases, causing discomfort, and even distress, with difficulty 



CHRONIC HEART DISEASE. 117 

of breathing in the night ; hence the necessity of the small 
and early supper. It will, however, often conduce to the 
patient's comfort, and aid his sleeping, if he takes a teacup- 
ful of cornflour, or of arrowroot, or of one of the prepared 
farinaceous foods, with a tablespoonful of brandy stirred 
into it, just before settling for the night, or a little milk 
warmed, and with the same amount of brandy in it, may be 
sipped at that time. 

Advanced Stage. — When cases of chronic heart disease 
come before us in an advanced stage, the question of their 
dietary is a serious one, but still great help and much relief 
may often be given even to such patients, by dieting only. 

Dropsy. — The difficulty of breathing may be distressing ; 
the loading of lung, liver, and other organs troublesome ; 
dropsy may have supervened ; and yet under a suitable diet- 
ary these symptoms may be greatly relieved. The patients 
will tell us how much difficulty they have in digesting any 
food, how great their discomfort from flatulence is, and that 
thirst continually troubles them. 

Gastric Catarrh. — It may be that gastric catarrh is mani- 
festly present, and this will add to the difficulty of our 
task. On questioning the patients as to the quantity of 
liquid taken within the twenty-four hours, we find, as a rule, 
that they are consuming much more than in health, and 
that at the same time a small quantity of urine is passed ; the 
skin is inactive, and the bowels sluggish. Little wonder, 
then, that the lungs and the abdominal organs are all con- 
gested, and that the anasarca is increasing. 

Purgatives and Diuretics. — Purgatives, producing watery 
evacuations, and diuretics, largely increasing the flow of urine, 
are most valuable in getting rid of a proportion of the fluid ; 
but if the quantity of liquid ingested be not lessened, the 
strain on the excretory organ is enormous. 

Value of a Dry Diet. — Hence the value of a dry diet in 
these cases. If the circumstances are explained, so far as 
possible, to the patient, and his co-operation secured, it is 



n8 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

wonderful how quickly be gets accustomed to the limitation 
put upon his supply of liquid. Thirst becomes gradually 
less tryiug, and the feeling of relief arising from the subsi- 
dence of the urgent symptoms gives him courage to persevere. 
Light, nourishing food in small quantities, and not too liquid 
forms, at frequent intervals, must here be the rule. There 
is great need for keeping up the patient's strength, but he 
cannot digest much at one time. A full meal, if retained 
by the catarrhal stomach, would only lie like a weight 
upon him, increasing flatulence, and embarrassing the heart's 
action. 

Dietary. — It will be difficult to dispense with the morning 
cup of tea, so refreshing to the patient after a night of some- 
what broken rest ; therefore at 

8 a.m. — Let the first meal consist of a small cup of tea 
with milk in it, and a slice of dry toast and butter. Here, 
again, the egg beaten up, with from one to two teaspoon- 
fuls of brandy in the tea, will be the most supporting and 
easiest-taken form of nourishment. Variations on this meal 
will be a cupful of bread and milk, or a cup of cocoa with 
toast soaked in it, and the directions for taking it slowly by 
teaspoonfuls hold good here equally as in the case of ordi- 
nary dyspeptics. 

10.30 a.m. — A teacupful of good soup or strong beef-tea, 
thickened with some farinaceous material, sago or vermicelli, 
or with fingers of toast dipped in it. The nutritive value 
and ease of assimilation will be increased by the addition of 
peptones of beef. In cases of great prostration, from one to 
two teaspoonfuls of brandy may have to be given with this 
supply of food. 

1.30 P.M. — A plain purde of meat or panada of chicken, 
or pounded meat, witli bread crumbs and rice (the cooked 
meat not to exceed three ounces in weight). From one to 
two tablespoonfuls of brandy will be allowed with this meal. 

4.30 p.m. — A teacupful of shortly-infused tea or of cocoa, 
with a slice of thin bread and butter, or toast, or rusks. 



AORTIC ANEURISM. 119 

6.30 P.M. — A lightly-cooked egg, a teacupful of beef jelly 
or of turtle-soup, flavoured with a dessert-spoonful of old 
madeira, or a slice of tripe, or an ox palate, with bread. 
Two tablespoonfuls of brandy must be repeated at this meal. 

9 o'clock. —An egg beaten up in a little milk and brandy, 
to the amount of one tablespoonful, or two teaspoonfuls of 
Brand's essence of meat, with the like quantity of brandy. 
This may be repeated during the night, or a little warm 
milk, with a dessert-spoonful of brandy, may be given. 

Aortic Aneurism. 

A sufficient number of cases of aortic aneurism in which 
improvement has followed treatment by rest and diet have 
been reported, to render it incumbent on every one placed in 
charge of such a patient to give this treatment a fair and 
exhaustive trial. 

We must not run away with the notion that it is simply a 
question of reducing the diet to the smallest amount of food 
upon which life can be supported. The patient must not 
be starved, or else, while the aneurism is being cured, he will 
be killed. What has been termed the " vita minima " plan 
has not succeeded, and has probably done more harm than 
good. If we consider for a moment the importance of not 
impoverishing the blood too greatly, we shall see that this 
must be so. Impoverished blood will lead only to anaemia 
and dropsy, and will thus defeat the very object we have in 
view, viz., the deposition of fibrin from the blood within the 
sac of the aneurism. 

Points of the Diet. — The chief points to be borne in mind 
are these : (1) the diet must be as dry a one as possible; 
(2) it must be largely nitrogenous ; and (3) it must be so 
distributed over the day as to minimise the risk- of even 
temporary plethora. To meet the first of these conditions, 
we reduce the quantity of liquid given in the twenty-four 
hours as far as can be borne by the patient. To make the 



120 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

diet supporting, and with a view of aiding the coagulation of 
the blood within the sac of the aneurism, we make the 
proportion of nitrogenous food greater than we should con- 
sider in other circumstances requisite to balance the dietary. 
Any approach to acceleration of the circulation being most 
undesirable, food will be given in small quantities at a time, 
and nothing like a full meal allowed. Except in cases 
where there is much prostration, alcohol should not enter 
into the dietary. In cases of great prostration we must, 
however, allow a very limited amount, and the safest form 
will be 2 oz. of claret or of a light burgundy with the food 
once or twice a day. 

The patient must assume a horizontal posture, and be 
willing to remain at perfect rest in that position for a period 
of from two to three months. The directions then would 
be the following : — 

Breakfast. — An egg or 2 oz. of fish ; 2 oz. of bread and 
butter ; 3 oz. of cocoa or of milk. 

Dinner. — Two oz. of meat ; 2 oz. of potato or bread, or dry 
boiled rice ; 3 oz. of water. 

Tea. — One oz. of bread and butter ; 2 oz. of cocoa or 
milk. 

Supper. — One egg ; 1 oz. of bread and butter ; 2 oz. of 
milk. Total, say 12 oz. of solids, 10 oz. of liquids. 

Mr. Tufnell's Plan. — The plan proposed by Mr. Tufnell, 
and which bears his name, directed that the patient should 
be kept in bed and at perfect rest in the horizontal posture 
for a period of from eight to thirteen weeks, according to 
the effect produced upon the aneurism, every care being 
taken to avoid movement in bed, special arrangements being 
made that the bowels and bladder might be relieved without 
altering the position of the body. The only medicines used 
were occasional opiates and laxatives. The following was 
the diet prescribed : — 

Breakfast. — Two oz. of white bread and butter ; 2 oz. of 
cocoa or milk. 



AORTIC ANEURISM. 12 r 

Dinner. — Three oz. of meat ; 3 oz. of potato or bread ; 
and 4 oz. of water or claret. 

Supper. — Two oz. of bread and butter, and 2 oz. of milk 
or tea ; giving a total quantity of solids 10 oz., and of liquids 
8 oz. 

This plan in Mr. Tufnell's hands resulted successfully iu 
ten cases, and although a rigid one, might be carried out 
with the co-operation of an intelligent patient and a reliable 
nurse. In many cases, however, it will be found necessary 
to modify it to the extent allowed in the former dietary. 



CHAPTER XIII. 
ACUTE AND CHRONIC RHEUMATISM. 

General Contents : Acute Rheumatism (Rheumatic Fever)— Chronic 
Rheumatism (Rheumatoid Arthritis). 

Acute Eheumatism {Rheumatic Fever). 

With some important modifications to be afterwards em- 
phasised, the diet in acute rheumatism is the same as 
in other acute febrile conditions, and the dieting of the 
patient is a very impo:tant part of the treatment. 

Early Stage. — In the early stages of the disease it is not, 
as a rule, difficult to restrict the patient to a suitable diet ; 
the difficulty rather may be to get enough nourishment 
taken ; but with the return of appetite during convales- 
cence, it is hard for him to believe that a good supply of 
butcher's meat will not make his progress towards recovery 
more rapid. 

Diet must be Non-Nitrogenous. — As a matter of fact, how- 
ever, we know that a return to solid food, and more especially 
the giving of meat too soon, is almost certain to be followed 
by a relapse. In acute rheumatism, more than in most 
other diseases, the system is loaded with waste products, 
the results of imperfect assimilation, and the powers of the 
digestive organs are very seriously impaired. 

Milk with an Alkali. — So long, therefore, as the symptoms 
are acute, small quantities of milk with an alkali, or with 
an alkaline water, such as potash, soda, vichy, or lime- 
water, should form the main part of the dietary, and 



ACUTE RHEUMATISM. 123 

besides these a little beef-tea, or chicken-tea, or mutton 
broth only may be allowed. The quantity to be given at 
a time is a very important matter, for it must not be 
forgotten that any considerable amount of even liquid 
nourishment may materially affect the heart's action, in 
the then usually embarrassed condition of that organ. Two 
to three ounces every hour, or every two hours, are better 
than double that quantity at longer intervals. 

Relief of Thirst. — Thirst may be relieved, by sips of an 
aerated water, and the addition of a little lemon-juice 
makes it more palatable, and does not seem to be contra- 
indicated. If there be diarrhoea, lime-water with the milk 
is useful. 

Farinaeeous Substances. — As the temperature falls and 
the acute symptoms subside, vegetable soups (Recipe 4 1 , 4 1 a), 
bread, and other farinaceous substances may be gradually 
added to the dietary ; also gruels, milk-puddings, malted 
foods, arrowroot, cornflour, rice, and the yolk of an egg 
beaten up with a little milk and a spoonful of brandy. 
As convalescence proceeds, next will come fresh white fish 
boiled, sweetbread, or chicken once a day, and the patient 
should be kept to these things until some days after all 
rheumatic symptoms have entirely disappeared. Eelapses 
can not uncommonly be traced to an unwise haste in 
returning to ordinary diet. It need hardly here be pointed 
out, that any chill, besides risking a return of the inflam- 
matory symptoms, is dangerous, inasmuch as it seriously 
interferes with the nutritive processes, and thus materially 
retards convalescence. 

Alcohol. — As regards alcohol, it may be said that it 
is required in most cases of acute rheumatism, indeed in 
all but those slight cases where the symptoms are neither 
severe nor long continued. Feebleness or inequality of the 
pulse, even without irregularity, is an early indication for 
ordering alcohol ; and if attended to, the more serious pros- 
tration and tremulousness of muscles that often follow mav 



124 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

be averted. The quantity, however, should be strictly 
regulated, and the effect upon the heart's action carefully 
observed. It is best to begin with a small allowance, say 
two ounces of brandy in the twenty-four hours, given in 
divided doses of a teaspoonful, a dessert-spoonful, or a table- 
spoonful, according to the age of the patient. In cases 
of marked cardiac failure, alcohol must be given liberally 
in larger doses, repeated as often as may seem necessary. 
The total amount ranges as high in some severe cases as 
twelve, eighteen, or even twenty ounces in the twenty- 
four hours. 

Chronic Rheumatism and Rheumatoid Arthritis. 

The diet must be liberal and most nutritious, but at the 
same time it must be light, and the digestive organs should 
not be burdened with any excess. Whilst, therefore, food 
must be adapted to the circumstances and digestive powers 
of each individual patient, the dietary should contain as 
much fat and fatty matters as possible. All rich and com- 
plicated dishes should be avoided, and also all cured meats, 
dried fish, pies, pastry, and sweets should be omitted from 
the patient's list. 

He may eat at breakfast fat bacon or fat ham, brown 
bread and butter, and have a cup of cocoa and milk. 

Luncheon. — Fresh fish with melted butter, or chicken, 
tripe, or calf's head, mashed potato, and well-boiled green 
vegetables. 

Afternoon Tea. — A cup of tea or of cocoa with milk, and a 
slice of thin bread and butter. 

Dinner. — If fish has been taken at luncheon, any plain 
meat, once cooked, may be taken at dinner with a little 
mashed or grated potato, and some well-boiled green vege- 
table. Any plain pudding or cream, or stewed fruit and 
cream. 

Alcohol. — A small allowance of alcohol is usually bene- 



CHRONIC RHEUMATISM. 125 

ficial, and the most suitable form for these patients is two 
tablespoonfuls of spirit in plain or in effervescing water. 

Cod-Liver Oil. — Cod-liver oil, malt extracts, or a combina- 
tion of the two, cream, or so-called cream-of-malt, are useful 
adjuncts to the dietary. 

When sufficient nourishment is not taken at the regular 
meal-times, the dietary may be usefully supplemented by 
giving a cupful of prepared farinaceous food at bedtime or 
during the night. Old people frequently require the latter. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
ALCOHOLISM. 

General Contents : Chronic Alcoholism — Acute Alcoholism 
(Delirium Tremens). 

Chronic Alcoholism. 

The furred tongue and ethery breath, the watery eye and 
shaky hand of the man who habitually indulges too freely 
in alcoholic stimulants, tell their own tale, and hardly need 
the history of disturbed sleep and other nervous distresses, 
or of morning sickness and different gastric disturbances, to 
confirm the diagnosis. 

In all cases of chronic alcoholism, the digestive powers 
are more or less weakened, the nervous and muscular 
systems enfeebled, and the nutritive functions impaired. 

Dietary. — (a.) In Severe Cases. — When severe cases of long 
standing come under our observation, marked alterations in 
the structure of the viscera have already taken place. Fatty 
degeneration and fibroid contraction are the characteristic 
changes met with in the different organs. In the stomach 
chronic gastric catarrh, with fibroid degeneration and atrophy 
of secretive glands, is prominent. Fatty degeneration of the 
heart and blood vessels results in feebleness of the circula- 
tion and a marked tendency to local congestions ; similar 
changes in the liver and kidneys, advancing to cirrhosis, 
seriously interfere with the functions of these important 
organs. Nor is the nervous system exempt from changes 
of a like kind. The tissues of the whole body are pale, 

flabby, and fatty or fibroid ; the functions of the different 

126 



CHRONIC ALCOHOLISM. 127 

organs are uot actively performed, and in these circumstances 
absorption and assimilation, on the one hand, are very im- 
perfect, while, on the other hand, the elimination of waste 
products is much hampered. Nutrition, therefore, is almost 
at a standstill. These patients require nourishment in con- 
siderable amount, but they have no appetite for food, and, as 
we have already seen, their digestive powers are but feeble. 
They consume only a small amount of food, and they are 
not able fully to digest what they do take. 

Conditions of Recovery. — The conditions necessary to 
their restoration to health are, first, to leave off alcoholic 
stimulants altogether ; and, second, to take as much simple 
nourishment in regulated quantities as we find they can 
digest. The diet, therefore, must be adapted, as far as it is 
possible to do so, to the degree of structural change that has 
taken place. The more advanced the condition, the more 
simple the diet. Food of the simplest kinds must be given 
in small quantities at short intervals. Remembering that 
the early morning is the worst time with such patients, that 
then they feel depressed and good for nothing, an early light 
breakfast should be given them in bed. 

Breakfast (say 8 o'clock). — A cup of weak tea with an egg 
beaten up in it, and a slice of toast, or a cupful of revalenta 
arabica (Du Barry's). 

Second Meal, 10.30. — A cupful of good meat soup, 
thickened, or a cup of peptonised milk, warmed (Recipe 74), 
with toast or rusk. 

Early Dinner, 1 o'clock. — A tablespoonful of pounded 
meat on toast, or a small teacupful of fresh meat juice, 
with fingers of toast. A couple of spoonfuls of sago, cus- 
tard, or tapioca pudding. Beverage — Half a tumblerful of 
milk and soda-water (equal parts). 

Afternoon Tea, 4.30. — A cup of weak tea or of cocoa nibs, 
with rusk or a plain biscuit. 

Evening Ileal, 7 o'clock. — A cup of soup or of mutton broth, 
as at the forenoon meal. 



128 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

9.30 or 10. — A cup of peptonised milk and a slice of 
thin bread and butter. 

Food During the Night. — In case of wakefulness there 
should be within reach, and arranged so as to be readily 
warmed, peptonised milk. The ordinary Etna or spirit lamp 
will be convenient for this purpose. 

(b.) Slighter Cases. — In slighter cases we may have only 
the characteristic mawkish breath and the muscular tremors, 
or other commencing nervous symptoms, indicating the 
patient's danger and the necessity for reforming his mode of 
life ; and in these milder degrees of the condition, if we suc- 
ceed in inducing him to leave off every form of alcoholic 
stimulant, and to take plenty of plain, simple food, rapid 
restoration to health may be anticipated. We should diet 
such a patient in the following manner : — 

Breakfast. — A lightly-boiled egg, or a little bit of white 
fish or of bacon, or a light savoury omelette ; toast, or bread 
and butter ; a cup of weak tea or of coffee and milk. 

Early Dinner, 1 o'clock. — A slice of roast mutton, or the 
wing of a chicken, or a plain cutlet, with a spoonful of 
mashed potato and some well-boiled green vegetable. A 
few spoonfuls of any plain milk or bread pudding, with 
occasionally some stewed fruit. Beverage — A glass of plain 
or aerated water, to be taken slowly towards the close of the 
meal. 

Afternoon. — A cup of tea with milk maybe allowed, with 
toast or rusk. 

Supper, 7.30. — A light meal of fresh fish, or of bird, or 
of calf's head, or of tripe, with dry-boiled rice or bread. 
Beverage — Small glass of milk and soda-water. 

Acute Alcoholism {Delirium Tremens). 

Anorexia is always a prominent symptom in cases of acute 
alcoholism, especially at the beginning of the attack. If the 
subject of acute alcoholism has been a chronic drinker, and 



ACUTE ALCOHOLISM. 129 

the pathological changes briefly enumerated under the head 
of Chronic Alcoholism have been established, his powers of 
digestion are so enfeebled that alimentation becomes a matter 
of extreme difficulty. The condition may, however, arise 
occasionally in more healthy subjects who have not been 
habitual drinkers, and whose constitutions, therefore, are not 
so far gone as in the case of those who are saturated with 
alcohol. In both classes the question of alimentation is 
of vital importance, but in the latter it will probably be 
managed far more easily and successfully than in the former. 
In the latter, moreover, there is no fear of evil results fol- 
lowing upon the omission of alcohol in every form from the 
dietary. As soon as the patient can be induced to take a 
good supply of nourishing food, the depths of his depression 
have probably been reached, and there is every hope of his 
soon obtaining refreshing sleep. In beginning the treatment, 
small quantities of food must be given at intervals of two 
hours, or oftener, if the quantity taken at a time be very 
small and the patient extremely restless. 

Dietary, — A cupful of good soup, mutton-broth, or chicken- 
tea, thickened, should alternate every two hours with a 
cupful of milk, plain or peptonised. 

An egg beaten up in weak tea with milk may take the 
place of one or two of the supplies of plain milk, say in the 
morning and evening. 

As natural sleep returns, and the patient's general con- 
dition improves, the stomach will become able to deal with 
larger supplies ; therefore increase the amount by one-half, 
and add to each supply some farinaceous material. Increase 
also the interval to three hours, not awaking the patient to 
take food, but getting in the supplies between his sleeps. 
As convalescence becomes established the following diet will 
be well borne : — 

Early Breakfast in Bed. — A cup of tea or of milk with 
an egg beaten up in it, a slice of toast or butter ; on alter- 
nate days a cup of cocoa with bread and butter. 

1 



*3o ' FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

In the Middle of the Forenoon. — A cup of good meat soup 
(Eecipes i-io, and 40), with toast, or a cup of warm milk 
and a biscuit. 

Early Dinner, 1.30. — A small basin of plain puree of 
meat, with bread, or a panada of chicken with a little 
mashed, potato, followed by a simple milk-pudding (Recipes 
5 7—64). Beverage — A small glass of home-made lemonade 
or of milk and soda-water. 

For Afternoon Tea. — A cup of cocoa or of tea, with plenty 
of milk, with a slice of bread and butter or a plain sponge-cake. 

Supper, 7.30. — Fish or sweetbread or tripe, or a few 
oysters with brown bread and butter. Bevirage — A glass of 
milk and soda-water. 

In the later stages of convalescence the same diet as 
directed for the slighter forms of chronic alcoholism will be 
found suitable (p. 120). 

Exclusion of Alcohol from the Dietary, — The advisability 
of excluding every form of alcohol from the dietary of patients 
suffering from delirium tremens is by some called in ques- 
tion, but it may safely be asserted that in the great majority 
of uncomplicated cases no harm follows the practice of cut- 
ting off alcoholic stimulants altogether. "Where, however, 
there is great feebleness of constitution, especially in old 
people, or where some complication such as pneumonia sets 
in, the case is altered, and it may then be absolutely neces- 
sary to give some form of alcohol to prevent the patient 
from sinking. Spirits should even then be avoided, and if 
the patient can take it, some form of malt liquor given with 
food. In cases, too, where prolonged sleeplessness has be- 
come a source of anxiety to the medical attendant, it may 
be found necessary to give stout or other malt liquor if 
sedatives by themselves have failed to produce sleep. 

Nutrient Enemata. — In all cases where sufficient nourish- 
ment cannot be taken by the mouth, or where the patients 
fight against their food, nutrient enemata should be freely 
given. 



CHAPTEE XV. 
NERVOUS DISORDERS. 

General Contents : Hysteria — Weir-Mitchell Treatment. 

Hysteria. 

The question of diet is one that should bulk very largely in 
the treatment of all hysterical patients. The food question 
is a constantly-recurring difficulty, and one that in some form 
or other meets the physician at every turn. Careful inquiry 
will usually prove that a sufficiency of food is not being 
taken, or that the diet is sadly deficient in some important 
particulars. Some hysterical patients like to pose as inter- 
esting invalids, who can eat next to nothing ; others have so 
many likes and dislikes — the dislikes greatly preponderating 
— that the least digestible, least nourishing, and altogether 
most unsuitable articles of diet are the only things taken. 
In both classes a state of semi-starvation is kept up. The 
nervous system, already disordered, and requiring to be well 
nourished, is alternately excited and depressed by the un- 
wholesome supplies of food and drink ; morbid ideas increase, 
and a vicious circle is established by these factors acting and 
re-acting on each other. The result is indigestion more or 
less constantly present. 

Gradual Increase of Food. — It is useless in such circum- 
stances to attempt to remedy this condition of affairs by 
putting the patient suddenly on to a full diet. We must 
begin by interdicting the improper foods. All stimulants 

131 



132 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

must, save iu exceptional cases, be absolutely forbidden ; also 
strong tea and coffee. A dietary consisting largely of meat, 
to the exclusion of farinaceous substances, green vegetables, 
and fruit, is often indulged in by such patients, although it 
is not well adapted to their actual wants. What they do 
require is food in such forms as will readily supply nourish- 
ment to their disordered nervous systems — not an unlimited 
supply of nitrogenous material, for that would further tax 
their already weakened digestive organs. Eggs, fish, fat 
meats, butter, cream, milk, puddings made with milk, fresh 
vegetables, and cooked fruit should enter largely into the 
dietary we prescribe. 

Small Meals. — Large quantities of food at a time are not 
well borne ; hence four or five small meals will be the order 
of the day. 

Breakfast. — A saucerful of porridge (well-boiled oatmeal, 
wheat-meal, or hominy) with cream, followed by a frizzle of 
fat bacon or an egg, and a slice of bread and butter, will 
form an excellent breakfast. In the middle of the forenoon 
a cup of milk with a biscuit. 

Luncheon, at 1.30 or 2 o'clock. — A plain meal — two 
courses — fish or meat, and pudding ; thus, a slice from the 
joint, a spoonful of mashed potato, and some well-boiled 
green vegetable. A milk-pudding or plain shape, with 
stewed fruit. 

Beverage. — Half a tumblerful of cold water. In the after- 
noon a cup of weak tea, with milk, or a cup of cocoa, and a 
slice of toast or of bread and butter. 

Supper, at 7 or 7.30. — A light supper, consisting of egg 
or fresh white fish, chicken, sweetbread, or the like, with 
bread and butter, and half a glass of water. Before going to 
bed a teacupful of milk (with the chill taken off), and a 
biscuit or slice of bread and butter. 

If the patient wakes early in the morning, she should 
have within reach some milk, easily- warmed by means of 
an Etna or other form of spirit-lamp, and in any case some 



HYSTERIA. 133 

light food, such as a cup of cocoa or of warm milk should 
be taken in the morning before dressing. Without this 
precaution the patient is too much exhausted after the 
bath and the fatigue of dressing, to have any appetite for 
breakfast. With returning strength and the ability to 
take larger quantities of food at regular meal-times, the 
intermediate supplies of the forenoon and evening may be 
gradually diminished and dispensed with. 

Alcohol. — Allusion has already been made to the impor- 
tance of excluding, in these cases, from the dietary alcohol 
in every form. It must be granted, however, that where 
the digestive functions have for a long time been seriously 
impaired, and there is much consequent weakness, a limited 
amount of alcohol will be necessary. 

Light Wine. — The form in which it is least objectionable 
is that of a light wine, and the patient may be allowed 
to take with the midday meal and with supper a glass of 
claret, of light burgundy, of hock, or of chablis. Expe- 
rience proves that patients of this class who are able to 
spend a considerable portion of time in the open air, and 
to take a reasonable amount of exercise, do better on an 
entirely non-alcoholic diet. 

Slighter Cases. — In cases where things have not gone to 
extremes, where friends and attendants have not altogether 
lost control of the patient, judicious management, together 
with properly regulated exercise and a diet such as that 
sketched above, will often work wonders in the treatment 
of hysterical patients. 

"Weir-Mitchell" Treatment. — When, however, there is 
great emaciation and serious depression of nerve power, it 
is to what is generally known as the Weir-Mitchell plan 
of treatment that we now turn in the hope of benefiting 
these patients. The combined nature of this treatment 
must not be forgotten — rest, isolation, massage, large quan- 
tities of food, and electricity. Without strict isolation and 
complete rest, little good will be obtained, and without 



i 3 4 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

massage properly carried out, the large quantities of food 
cannot be digested or assimilated. 

Isolation. — By separation from friends and ordinary sur- 
roundings, old and often hurtful associations are broken 
up, and the worried nervous system is put at complete 
rest. 

Massage. — The massage, with or without electricity, takes 
the place of exercise, and the amount can be regulated 
from time to time as the physician finds necessary to 
suit the requirements of the particular case. By means 
of systematic massage the elimination of waste products is 
greatly stimulated, and a steady building up of healthy 
tissue takes place, the ultimate result being a vast increase 
in both muscular and nerve power. 

Selection of a Nurse. — The first important conditions of 
success are the selection of a suitable and reliable nurse, 
and of a bright airy room with a good exposure. These 
are matters of the greatest importance, when it is con- 
sidered that the patient must remain in bed absolutely 
for at least three or four weeks from the beginning of the 
treatment, and that all communications with the outer 
world are practically cut off. Before commencing treat- 
ment, the patient's weight should be ascertained, and may 
be taken at intervals during the course. 

Milk Alone at First. — At first the food given should be 
milk alone, with the exception, perhaps, of a small cup of 
black coffee early in the morning, if required to obviate a 
tendency to constipation. The milk will generally agree 
best if it be slightly warmed, but unless there be diarrhoea 
it need not be boiled. For the first day or two, give every 
tsvo hours from three to four ounces of milk, which will 
bring the total quantity in the twenty-four hours to about 
two pints, allowing for the intervals of sleep. 

Amount of Milk. — The amount given at a time should be 
gradually increased, and the interval lengthened to three 
hours, the total being brought up to two quarts. The 



HYSTERIA. 135 

milk should be sipped very slowly, and if it be very dis 
tasteful to the patient, as is the case in rare instances, it 
will be necessary to add enough tea, coffee, or cocoa just to 
flavour it. In other cases where milk is at first badly 
borne, though happily these also are rare, the difficulty 
may be got over by giving milk with a lessened amount of 
ordinary food, and gradually increasing the quantity of milk 
until it becomes the sole diet. 

Alkalies with Milk. — Alkalies with milk will be needed 
only in those cases where it sets up much acidity. After 
two or three days alternate supplies of five and ten ounces 
every three hours will usually be well borne. Soon ten 
ounces every three hours can be taken with ease, and we 
shall next proceed to add for breakfast a cup of cocoa with 
bread and butter, and in the middle of the day a milk 
pudding. Fish or chicken will next be added, first either 
at the midday or evening meal and then at both. The diet 
will, therefore, stand thus : — 

Milk. — Sixty to eighty ounces. 

Breakfast. — Cocoa and bread and butter. 

Luncheon. — Fish, vegetable, and pudding. 

Dinner. — Chicken, vegetables, and bread. 

In most cases, after a few days of this diet further addi- 
tions may be made as follow, still keeping up the full 
quantity of milk. 

Breakfast. — Porridge and cream early in the morning. 

Second Breakfast. — Cocoa and egg, bread and butter. 

Luncheon. — Fish, bread, pudding and milk ; or chicken, 
vegetables, and pudding. 

Dinner. — Mutton or beef, two or three kinds of vegetables, 
milk-pudding, or stewed fruit with cream. 

Extract of Malt may be given with one or more supplies of 
milk during the day, and if strong soup and beef peptonoids are 
used, they will take the place of one of the supplies of milk. 

Cod-Liver-Oil and Lron are useful adjuncts in some cases, 
and other tonics, as acids, quinine, and strychnia, given 



136 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

towards the close of the treatment, may be usefully con- 
tinued for some time afterwards. 

Gradual Reduction of the Diet. — At the end of five or six 
weeks the slackening off of this excessive diet is commenced 
by reducing the quantity of milk, and as the patient comes 
to take more exercise, the massage also is lessened. 

Increase in weight and muscular power are the best tests 
of the efficiency of the massage. If the result be not satis- 
factory in these two important respects, it is high time to 
inquire closely into the way in which the massage is being 
carried out. 

After Treatment. — When the term of treatment is con- 
cluded, the patient should lead an active open-air life, but 
for some months longer a daily rest of two or three hours 
should be inculcated. The return to ordinary diet must be 
made gradually, by leaving off the intermediate supplies of 
food one by one. In this way the system by degrees adapts 
itself to the change. A sea-voyage or a prolonged tour in 
many cases confirms the cure. Eelapses happily are un- 
common, especially where this treatment is followed by a 
life of active usefulness. 



CHAPTER XVI. 
DIATHETIC DISEASES. 

General Contents : Fevers (except Typhoid Fever) — Acute Pneumonia, &c. 
— Typhoid Fever — Use of Alcohol in Fevers. 

Fevers (Except Typhoid Fever, see p. 142) — Acute 
Pneumonia, &c. 

The teaching of Graves marks a revolution in the dietetic 
treatment of fevers. A great reaction then set in against 
starving in acute diseases accompanied by fever, and since 
that time the danger has been more on the side of over- 
feeding than of under- feeding. 

Precise Directions. — Unless precise directions are given by 
the physician, anxious friends, and even nurses, who should 
know better, are apt to push the quantity of food too far, 
thereby oftentimes adding to the discomfort of the patient, 
if they do not actually endanger his life or retard his 
recovery. 

A very prevalent idea is that if the patient be restricted 
to beef-tea, broths, and milk, these foods may be given prac- 
tically without limitation, to make up for increased metabol- 
ism and loss of nitrogenous materials consequent on the 
feverish state. Undoubtedly the difficulty in not a few cases 
is to get the patient to take a sufficiency of nourishment ; 
but, on the other hand, the unlimited administration of food 
in cases where the patient will take it is as reprehensible as 
the plan of starvation. 

Several general points should here be noted in regard to 

137 



r 3 8 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

the febrile state and the feeding of patients during the 
course of acute febrile diseases. 

Impairment of Digestion. — In the first place, we find that 
the functional activity of the digestive organs is seriously 
impaired from an early period of the febrile attack. Sir 
William Roberts has stated forcibly (Dietetics and Dyspepsia, 
p. 67) the distinction between gastric and intestinal diges- 
tion, pointing out that in persons who are seriously ill the 
stomach is inactive, and the secretion of gastric juice so 
greatly diminished as hardly to be taken into accouut in 
fixing the diet. He believes that in severe cases the 
stomach loses its normal office, and becomes merely a con- 
tinuation, as it were, of the oesophagus to carry on the liquid 
food to the duodenum. He remarks that this loss of gastric 
activity accounts for the fact that many persons who in health 
cannot digest milk are able to do so with ease during illness. 
There is not enough gastric juice to curdle the milk, so 
it passes on into the bowel unchanged, and is there readily 
acted upon by the pancreatic secretion. 

Curds in the Stools. — The passage of undigested food and 
of hard masses of milk-curds in the motions is an indication 
of some error in the dietary that should never be overlooked. 
When this takes place, food is either being given of such a 
kind or in such quantity as the enfeebled digestive organs 
cannot cope with. If the quantity or quality be not at 
fault, then. we should suspect the mode of administration 
of the food or the circumstances under which it is given. 
Food that is not digested and assimilated, besides causing 
discomfort to the patient and producing an increase of fever, 
may also (as, for example, in typhoid fever) be actually an 
additional source of danger to life. 

Fluid Foods only to be Given. — It follows, therefore, that 
only the simplest kinds of fluid food should be given, as 
will be fully pointed out when discussing the articles of the 
diet. 

Secondly, throughout the course of a febrile attack there 



FEVER. 139 

is greatly increased waste of tissue, proportionate to the rise 
of temperature and the continuance of the fever. The nitro- 
genous tissues suffer most, but also secondarily fats, as shown 
by wasting of muscles and by general emaciation. 

Limitation of Albuminoids. — The rapid destruction of the 
nitrogenous tissues also leads to an accumulation of nitro- 
genous waste materials in the blood, and in all cases where 
the elimination is to any extent defective, as it is in most 
fevers, the quantity of albuminoid substances in the diet 
must be kept down to a small proportion. 

It is very doubtful to what extent albuminoid foods can 
be made use of by the organism during the continuance of 
fever in the formation of new tissue to replace that lost by 
increased metamorphosis, but the judicious selection and 
combination of foods in the dietary may prevent undue 
waste, and afford the patient sufficient material for organic 
combustion, or, as it is sometimes called, a sufficiency of 
" fuel food." 

Milk. — The staple food in febrile conditions is undoubtedly 
milk, but caution is necessary in the use of even milk, for 
if it be given without care and discrimination, untoward 
results may follow. As has been already noticed, milk may 
pass along the intestinal canal, remaining almost in its fluid 
condition during febrile states ; but, on the other hand, if 
milk be given without due precaution, firm curds will be left 
undigested, and these, especially in cases where the bowels 
are inflamed or ulcerated, may do serious mischief. 

Diluted Milk. — To prevent excessive curdling of milk, it 
must be given in small quantities at a time, say from two to 
six or eight ounces, diluted with lime-water, or with soda, 
seltzer, or other effervescent water — one part of such water 
to two of milk. Where it is desirable to limit the bulk, 
saccharated solution of lime, W[xx. to each feederful of milk, 
may be used, but generally a considerable quantity of fluid 
is needed to supply the loss of moisture that is taking place 
in the febrile state, and hence the other methods, namely, 



t40 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

by dilution, are to be preferred. If milk is well borne, from 
two to three pints should be given — four ounces every two 
hours or six ounces every three hours, which will come to 
about two and a half pints in the twenty-four hours. The 
quantities, the hours at which they are given, and the total 
amount, should be accurately put down by the nurse. 

Whey. — In cases where milk does not agree well, whey 
(Recipes 80, 81) may be given as a substitute for milk in part 
or in whole. Sometimes the milk is taken more easily and 
readily if we permit certain of the supplies to be flavoured 
with tea, coffee, or cocoa, and there is usually no serious 
objection to doing so. 

Beef-Tea and Broths. — Next to milk, the most important 
articles of diet in fevers are beef-tea, meat broths, and 
chicken-tea, and these are much more valuable as foods 
when they contain some farinaceous substance, such as 
baked flour or pounded biscuit. Farinaceous substances 
are required, and are useful by affording fuel food. Arrow- 
root made very thin, gruel also thin and carefully strained, 
are types of this form. 

Prepared Foods. — But there is here a large field for the 
use of prepared foods, of which Mellin's and Bender's may 
be taken as typical examples. These foods readily supply 
the grape-sugar that is more than ever needed to meet the 
loss occasioned by rapid oxidation during the continuance 
of high temperatures. Malt extracts are also valuable addi- 
tions to the dietary. 

Thirst. — Usually there is considerable thirst in fevers, and 
patients take readily of diluent drinks. Even if not asked 
for, simple drink should be given between the supplies 
of food, and they may not only be varied, but may have 
some nutritive value by the addition of sugar or of malt 
extracts. 

Pure cold water is often the most acceptable drink to the 
patient, but barley-water or rice-water, and beverages made 
with the juice of fresh fruits, such as currants (Recipe 20), 



FEVER. 141 

and lemonade (Recipes 24, 25), are useful alternatives; 
also the old-fashioned potus imperialis (Recipe 21), and 
toast-water. 

Alcohol in Fevers. — Alcohol is often, but by no means 
always, a necessary adjunct to the diet in fevers and acute 
diseases generally. It should not be prescribed in all cases 
as a matter of course and as a part of the recognised dietary. 
In acute diseases lasting but a limited time, in an ordinarily 
healthy person, alcohol is not required at all, or not at least 
until the convalescing stage, when a little wine may improve 
the appetite and aid digestion. 

Indications for the Use of Alcohol. — In all cases, however, 
when any sign of failure of circulation shows itself ; in those 
cases in which severe symptoms and high temperatures 
appear early in the course of the disease ; in persons who 
have been accustomed to the use of large quantities of 
stimulants ; in the aged, in very young children, and in 
all persons of feeble constitution, alcohol is required, and 
should be given freely, if necessary, even from the com- 
mencement of the attack. Whenever and wherever we have 
to face the signs of feeble circulation and of nervous pros- 
tration in acute disease, alcohol is necessary. The small 
compressible, rapid pulse, the feeble or scarcely audible first 
sound of the heart, with or without low muttering delirium, 
are sure indications for the use of alcoholic stimulants. 

To get the full good of alcohol, in whatever form it may 
be used, it should be given with or just after food, and thus 
too great borrowing of strength is prevented. 

Spirits. — (a.) During the course of febrile diseases, the 
best form of alcoholic stimulant is good old spirit, and, as 
a rule, brandy or whisky answers best. The quantity will 
vary with the age and condition of the patient. The mini- 
mum, however, may be put at two ounces, and the average 
at from three to six ounces. In exceptional cases, however, 
as much as twelve ounces or more may be required. 

Wines. — (6.) If there be any reason to prefer giving wine 



142 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

rather than spirit, then a good light port, or burgundy, or 
a champagne may be selected. It is during convalescence, 
however, as already noticed, that wines are mostly useful, 
and the rule as to quantity should be, that no more be 
given than that amount which increases appetite and im- 
proves digestion. 

Typhoid Fever. 

The regulation of the diet in typhoid (enteric) fever 
forms such an important part of the treatment, that it is 
desirable to consider it by itself, apart from other fevers, 
and at some length. 

Danger of Over-Feeding. — The risk of over-feeding has 
already been alluded to in speaking of the diet of fevers 
in general, and it need only here be remarked, that the 
tendency to over-feeding is perhaps greater in typhoid than 
in other fevers and febrile diseases, whilst the danger to the 
patient is likewise greater. 

Condition of the Stools. — The chief guide in the matter of 
food in typhoid fever must be found in the condition of the 
stools. The physician in charge of the case should himself 
see the motions daily, and should not take this important 
matter on the report of even an experienced nurse, since 
she may easily be misled by appearances. If any signs of 
undigested food show themselves, there is something re- 
garding the dietary needing to be inquired into, and, if 
possible, put right. 

Milk. — A very common idea is, that a typhoid fever 
patient cannot take too much milk. This is probably true, 
up to the point to which the milk is fully digested, but no 
further. It is undigested food, and especially undigested 
milk in hard curds, that causes the danger in the inflamed 
and ulcerated state of the bowels. If masses of hard curd 
appear in the motions, there is some fault in the dietary. 
Too much milk is being given in the twenty-four hours, or 



TYPHOID FEVER. 143 

it is being given in too large quantity at a. time, and these 
points must be looked into and carefully considered. 

Alkali vrith Milk. — (a.) It may be that the quantities are 
not wrong, and that dilution of the milk, or the addition of 
an alkali, or of some farinaceous material in powder, will 
answer the purpose, by preventing the formation of firm 
curds, which pass along undigested, and add so greatly to 
the risk of increased diarrhoea, of haemorrhage, or even of 
perforation. Eemembering the condition of the bowels, it 
cannot be wondered that the passage of hard masses of 
curdled milk should cause such discomfort to the patient 
in the way of flatulence, griping, and diarrhoea, if worse 
results even do not follow. 

If the total quantity of milk given be not too great, and 
yet it be not fully digested, careful inquiry must be made 
into the mode of administration of the milk. The quantity 
given at a time should be restricted, or if the fault do not 
lie there, an alkali such as lime-water or soda-water should 
be added to the milk. Where it is desirable not to in- 
crease the bulk too much, and not to give it quite cold, the 
chill may be taken off by adding a little hot water, while 
the addition of twenty drops of the saccharated solution of 
lime in each supply will secure alkalinity. 

Farinaceous Substances in Milk. — (b.) Another useful 
measure is to put some farinaceous substance, such as 
arrowroot or baked flour, into the milk, to aid the sub- 
division of the curds. Such a substance as baked flour, 
containing as it does a proportion of dextrine, forms a con- 
siderable addition to the nutritive value of the food. 

Precise Directions. — As has been already pointed out, 
definite directions should be laid down as to the quantity 
of food to be given at a time, the mode of its adminis- 
tration, the intervals between the supplies, and the total 
amount for the twenty-four hours. For example, it should 
not be left to the nurse to give, if she thinks fit, milk and 
water as an ordinary drink whenever the patient is thirsty. 



i 4 4 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

He may, however, be allowed in the intervals between the 
supplies of food to sip freely of plain cold water, or of 
toast and water, barley-water, lemon-juice in water, or other 
such simple drinks (Eecipes 19, 22, 24, 31, 32). 

If milk-sugar or grape-sugar in some form be added, it 
helps materially in sustaining the patient. 

Beef-Tea and Broths. — Hitherto mention has been made 
of milk only, but beef- tea, properly made (Eecipe 3), 
mutton-broth, chicken-tea thickened with farinaceous sub- 
stances, may be given in greater or less quantity, according 
to circumstances. One point that should regulate the 
amount of meat-broths given is the state of the bowels. 
If diarrhoea be at all an urgent symptom, then beef- tea 
and broths are contra-indicated, or should be given in very 
small quantities. In any case of typhoid fever, meat- 
broths, if given in large amount, tend to increase diarrhoea. 
In some cases meat-jelly iced or extracts of meat, may 
take the place of beef-tea and broth, a teaspoonful being 
given at a time. 

Dietaries. — Coming to the details of the diet, in an ordi- 
nary case two and a half pints of milk and a pint and a half 
of beef-tea or of mutton or chicken broth, will be a fair 
average supply, given in divided quantities, alternating as 
far as possible the milk and the broth. In this way, giving 
ten ounces at a time every three hours, the broth will come 
in after about every second supply of milk. "Where as much 
as ten ounces cannot be taken comfortably at one time and 
well digested, we may give from five to seven ounces every 
two hours. 

Sleep. — An important question is whether the patient 
should or should not be wakened to take nourishment. The 
judgment of a sensible, observant nurse may in this matter 
be trusted to a considerable extent, but the patient should 
certainly not be allowed to miss more than one supply of 
food ; and often less harm will be done by gently interrupt- 
ing a somewhat restless sleep to give food than by risking 



TYPHOID FEVER. 145 

the exhaustion consequent upon the patient going too long 
without nourishment. 

Nutrient Enemata. — Nutrient enemata are sometimes re- 
quired to maintain life and tide over dangerous periods in 
typhoid fever (for particulars see chap, on Nutrient Enemata). 
If they are not well retained, from fifteen to twenty-five 
drops of laudanum should be added to each enema. 

When serious haemorrhage occurs, it is necessary to sus- 
pend feeding by the mouth altogether for twelve or twenty- 
four hours, and to give small enemata of prepared and pre- 
digested materials, with or without stimulants according 
to the condition of the patient. If he is very weak and 
collapsed, a moderate amount of alcohol must be given, but 
not more than is absolutely necessary, lest by this means the 
tendency to haemorrhage be increased. 

Alcohol. — Next to the consideration of the food comes the 
question of alcoholic stimulants in cases of tyj hoid fever. 

A considerable number of cases can no doubt be treated 
successfully without the use of alcohol in any form, and it 
may almost be said that it is never required in the early 
stages of the disease. The exceptions to this rule are patients 
in a very debilitated state, and those who have previously 
been accustomed to imbibe freely ; also cases in which very 
high temperatures and other serious symptoms come on sud- 
denly at an early period. In such cases it is necessary to 
give alcohol without delay, perhaps even from the beginning ; 
but in ordinary cases it should never be ordered as a matter 
of course or without due consideration of the circumstances 
of the individual patient. 

Indications fop the Use of Alcohol. — Our chief guide to the 
use of -alcohol in typhoid fever lies in the condition of the 
heart. A small, frequent, easily- compressed pulse, especially 
if associated with feebleness of the first sound of the heart, 
is a clear indication that alcohol is required. If under its 
use the pulse becomes steady, fuller, less frequent, and less 
easily compressed, the alcohol is doing good. When along 

K 



146 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

with this improvement of circulation there is lowering of the 
temperature and less delirium, there remains no doubt as to 
its beneficial effect. 

Quantity of Alcohol to be Given. — The amount given at a 
time should be small — from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful 
of spirit, or an ounce of wine three or four times a day. The 
stimulant should be given in the food or just after it, and 
the effect must be carefully watched. 

If required, the quantity given in twenty-four hours may 
be increased up to eight or ten ounces, in divided doses of 
half an ounce or an ounce each. In cases of extreme weak- 
ness, an ounce of spirit every hour will not be too much ; and 
it is astonishing how well patients who in health are unac- 
customed to the use of stimulants bear so large a quantity 
of alcohol. Good old port or madeira answers well ; but, on 
the whole, preference is to be given to mature spirit in the 
form of old brandy or whisky. 

In cases where the cold bath or cold sponging has to be 
resorted to, it is desirable, as a rule, to give from two tea- 
spoonfuls to a tablespoonful of spirit in a little water just 
before commencing or during the process. 

Diet in Convalescence. — During convalescence the regula- 
tion of the diet is of the utmost importance. The condition 
of the bowel demands the greatest care on our part that the 
tender healing, or newly healed, surfaces be not injured by 
any hard or indigestible substance. The worst consequences 
have followed very slight negligence in this respect, and, 
therefore, for a considerable time the greatest caution is 
necessary. It is a safe rule to follow, that no solid food be 
given until the temperature has been normal for at least 
eight days, and in irregular and severe cases a longer period 
should elapse. Even then, it is not uncommon to have a 
slight rise of temperature with some constitutional disturb- 
ance on the first return to really solid food. 

The first step should be to increase the thickness of the 
beef-tea or soup with fine bread-crumb. Next, lightly-made 



TYPHOID FEVER. 147 

farinaceous puddings may be given, also custards and 
jellies. Later on, beaten-up eggs and slightly-boiled and 
poached eggs may be allowed, and also finely-pounded 
meat. As a further step, tiny sandwiches made of pounded 
chicken or pheasant, between thin squares of bread, will 
often be greatly relished by the patient. The way for red 
meats should be prepared by the giving of a slice from 
the breast of a chicken with a little bread-sauce. Oysters 
also form an agreeable change. White fish is useful and 
allowable early; but the danger of bones being left in it, 
even by the most painstaking cook, makes us chary of its 
use. 

Fruits. — Fruit is contra-indicated throughout the course 
of typhoid fever on account of the risk there always is that 
it will increase diarrhoea, but in the convalescent stages a 
few grapes may be allowed, provided that the skins and pips 
are removed and not swallowed. The pulp of a ripe orange 
may be admitted under similar stringent conditions. 

If the patient has been taking any considerable quantity 
of alcohol during the acute stages of the disease, the amount 
may be gradually lessened during convalescence, and the 
form of the stimulant changed to light wines given with the 
food. Green vegetables and fruits, other than those men- 
tioned above, must be avoided for a considerable time, and 
the return to ordinary habits of diet and of life must be 
made very carefully and very gradually. 

Note. — It is best to have separate feeding cups for food 
and medicines. If the same cup be used, or even one that 
is similar in appearance, the association of ideas is against 
the taking of food. 

Cleansing of the Mouth. — It is hardly necessary to remark 
here that frequent cleansing of the mouth tends to make 
the taking of food easier. When the mouth is allowed to 
become dry and foul, this condition is a serious obstacle to 
the taking of nourishment. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
DISEASES OP CHILDREN. 

General Contents : Indigestion in Infants and in Older Children — Chronic 
Diarrhoea — Rickets — Neurosal Affections of Children. 

Indigestion in Infants and in Older Children. 

(a.) Healthy Milk— In Infants. — If the child is being brought 
up by hand, great care must be taken, if symptoms of in- 
digestion appear, to see that the cow's milk is perfectly 
healthy. If no fault is to be found with the milk, all that 
may be needed is for a time to dilute the milk with a larger 
proportion of water than usual. The diet mentioned in the 
section on Diarrhoea will also often agree well in such cases, 
or cream diluted with four or five times as much water, or 
the following diet, recommended by Drs. Meigs and Pepper 
for weakly children, consisting of prepared gelatine or isin- 
glass, cow's milk, cream, and a very thin arrowroot-water 
with sugar (p. 153). They advise as an alternative to this 
diet, one composed of thin arrowroot-water, lime-water, 
cream, and milk in equal proportions ; the quantity given 
at first to be not more than four tablespoonfuls every two 
hours. After a day or two, if the food is well borne, six 
tablespoonfuls are to be given every two hours, and this 
again increased to eight tablespoonfuls. As the gastric 
disturbance subsides, the quantities of cream and lime- 
water are to be lessened, and the amount of milk increased, 
thus bringing the child gradually back to its ordinary diet. 

During acute attacks the child should be allowed to drink 

148 



CHRONIC DIARRHCEA. 149 

freely, in the intervals between the supplies of food, of fresh 
cold water. "When there is great prostration, the water 
should contain brandy, in the proportion of two teaspoonfuls 
to the pint. 

Indigestion without Diarrhoea. — When no diarrhoea is 
present, weak mutton- or chicken-broths will often suit when 
other things fail. Strict regularity in the times of giving 
the food, and careful regulation of the quantities given at 
one time, are of the utmost importance. 

(b.) In Older Children. — Restriction of the diet to bread 
and milk, milk-puddings, bread and butter, broths thickened 
with some farinaceous substance, such as baked flour, rice, 
or crumbled toast, pounded chicken, rabbit, or very tender 
mutton pounded, with little or no vegetable for the time 
being, and. the exclusion of all sweets, cakes, and fruits, 
will answer best, and that often without the aid of drugs. 

Dietary. — In detail such a diet will be : — 

Breakfast. — Very well-boiled whole meal or oatmeal por- 
ridge with milk, or bread and milk, or cocoa and bread and 
butter. 

Dinner. — Chicken or tender mutton (pounded, if necessary), 
with bread and a little dry boiled rice, or broth thickened, 
followed by a little milky pudding. 

Tea. — "Warmed milk, or milk and hot-water, or cocoa, 
with bread and butter. 

Supper. — A little milk and a plain biscuit. 

Children should be made to eat very slowly, and to masti- 
cate food very thoroughly. 

Chronic Diarrhcea. 

The food composed of arrowroot, cow's milk, and cream 
with gelatine is an exceedingly useful one. 

Dr. Eustace Smith recommends, for a child one year old, 
who can digest a certain quantity of milk, and in whom 
diarrhcea is not very severe, a teaspoonful of Liebig's food 



150 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

for infants, every three hours, dissolved alternately in equal 
parts of milk and water, and in equal parts of weak veal- 
broth and barley-water. 

If the child can digest no milk, he advises the following 
diet : — 

7 a.m. — One teaspoonful of Mellin's food dissolved in a 
teacupful of veal-broth and barley-water, equal parts. 

1 1 a.m. — One tablespoonful of cream in a teacupful of 
fresh whey. 

2 o'clock. — The unboiled yolk of one egg beaten up with 
fifteen drops of brandy, a tablespoonful of cinnamon-water 
and a little white sugar. 

5 P.M. — Six ounces of beef-tea ( I lb. to the pint). 

1 1 P.M. — A meal similar to the one at y A.M. 

As the child's condition improves, a little milk can be 
gradually added to the diet. 



Eickets. 

While different theories regarding the pathology of rickets 
may be maintained, authorities on the subject are agreed as 
to the causation of the disease. 

Causes. — Defective nutrition of children is without doubt 
the usual cause of rickets, and the dyspepsias and gastro- 
intestinal catarrhs due to improper feeding greatly favour 
the occurrence of the disease. Added to unsuitable diet, 
there are usually, though by no means invariably, to be 
found bad hygienic conditions — a low damp situation, bad 
ventilation, deficiency of exercise in the open air, and want 
of cleanliness. 

"Rickets, although one of the most preventible of chil- 
dren's diseases, is one of the most common. It begins in- 
sidiously, presenting at first merely the ordinary symptoms 
of defective assimilation, and attention is often not attracted 
to it until the characteristic changes occur in the bones 



RICKETS. 151 

which place the existence of the disease beyond a doubt. 
It is the result of mal-nutrition ; any disease, therefore, 
which seriously interferes with the assimilative power, and 
causes sufficient impairment of the general strength, may 
be followed directly by the disorder under consideration, 
without any intervening stage. Eeduce the strength to a 
given point, and rickets begins. Prolong this state of 
debility sufficiently, and the characteristic changes resulting 
from the disease manifest themselves. Any case, there- 
fore, which will reduce the strength to this point, lays the 
foundation of rickets." 

" Eickets is usually ranked amongst the diathetic diseases 
of childhood, but its claims to such a position are by no 
means indisputable. In rickets there is, strictly speaking, 
no constitutional predisposition; it is the result of certain 
known causes, without which the disease cannot be pro- 
duced. That the disease occurs amongst the children of 
the rich as well as amongst the poor, is no argument 
against this view; for wealth cannot buy judgment, and 
education is no guarantee against foolish indulgence. We 
know that a child may be in reality starving, although fed 
every day upon the richest food, for he is nourished, not 
in proportion to the nutritive properties of the food he 
swallows, but in proportion to his capability of digesting 
what is given to him. . . . Eickets does not produce mal- 
nutrition ; mal-nutrition produces rickets." 

" Eickets, then, is not a diathetic disease in the sense in 
which tuberculosis and syphilis are diathetic diseases. It is 
acquired under the influence of certain causes, lasts as long 
as these causes continue in operation, and, unless the struc- 
tural changes are so extensive, and the general strength so 
reduced as to forbid recovery, passes off when the causes 
are removed." — Eustace Smith. 

Allusion has already been made to the part that bad 
hygienic surroundings take in the causation of this disease, 
and acute diseases which rapidly exhaust the strength of 



152 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

the child and lower his powers of assimilation, should not 
be omitted from the list of common causes. 

Health of the Mother. — If the mother herself be in feeble 
health whilst she is suckling her child, her milk will not 
be sufficiently nourishing, and the sooner the child is trans- 
ferred to a wet-nurse or weaned, the better. Even if the 
mother be in good health and be well-fed, her milk becomes, 
after a certain time, thin, watery, and insufficient for the 
wants of the growing child ; hence the evil effects of pro- 
longing lactation beyond the recognised period of nine 
months. It is usually the case that the milk of a healthy 
mother entirely suffices for the wants of the child during 
the first six months ; and may be continued as its staple 
food for nine months, but during the latter portion of that 
time, a little carefully-selected and well-prepared farinaceous 
food should be added to the dietary. When, from any 
cause, the mother's milk proves insufficient for the needs 
of a young infant, a healthy wet-nurse should be obtained, 
or the child fed upon cow's milk or ass's milk, if that be 
procurable. If fed upon the mother's milk alone, the in- 
fant's nutrition will assuredly in such circumstances suffer, 
and it will begin to show signs of feeble health, which, if 
not arrested, may lead up to the development of rickets. 

Excess of Farinaceous Foods. — Too often the attempt is 
made to supply the deficiency in the milk by giving to 
young children farinaceous foods in quantities which they 
cannot digest, and which, therefore, since they produce indi- 
gestion and flatulence, only increase the mischief. 

Drs. Meigs and Pepper, in their work- on the diseases of 
children, while they deprecate most strongly the giving of a 
large amount of farinaceous food, yet consider that a small 
amount of starchy material given in the milk, by preventing 
its coagulation into hard masses, does sometimes make the 
food more digestible. For young infants they give the pre- 
ference to arrowroot. Where there is a tendency to diarrhcen, 
they recommend barley or wheat; and when the bowels are 



RICKETS. 153 

constipated, oatmeal. They have long used the following 
preparation, and believe it to be one of the best substitutes 
for the natural food: — "To make this food, a scruple by- 
weight of Eussian isinglass or prepared gelatine, or a portion 
of gelatine cake two inches square, is soaked for a short 
time in half a pint of cold water. The water is then boiled 
until the gelatine is fully dissolved — about fifteen minutes. 
A small teaspoonful of arrowroot mixed into a paste with a 
little water is then stirred into the boiling water, after which 
the milk is added and allowed to boil for a few minutes. 
At the end of the boiling the cream is added." 

Proportions of Milk. — The proportions of milk are — for 
the youngest children, one-third ; and for the older, one-half 
or two-thirds. Of cream, two tablespoonfuls are added to a 
pint of the food, so long as this is one-third milk. When 
the food is half milk, one tablespoonful and a half of cream 
to the pint is the proper quantity ; and when the food be- 
comes two-thirds milk, one tablespoonful is to be added. To 
dilutions of two-thirds water and one-third milk there should 
be added about six and a half drachms of the sugar of milk ; 
to dilutions of half-and-half, the quantity of sugar to be 
added is five and a half to the pint. If cane-sugar is used, 
only half the above quantities should be employed. They 
further recommend that in the case of very weakly chil- 
dren the food should be more diluted than the proportions 
given above. For older children the food may be somewhat 
strengthened. 

Dietary. — For a child sixteen or eighteen months old, 
suffering from rickets, Dr. Eustace Smith recommends the 
following diet : — 

7.30 a.m. — One or two teaspoonfuls of Liebig's food for 
infants (Mellin's) dissolved in a breakfast- cupful of milk. 

1 1 a.m. — A breakfast-cupful of milk, with fifteen drops 
of the saccharated solution of lime in it. 

2 r.M. — A good tablespoonful of well-pounded mutton 
chop, with gravy, and a little crumbled stale bread; or a 



1 54 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

good tablespoonful of the flower of broccoli, well stewed 
with gravy until quite tender ; a little dry bread. For drink, 
milk and water. 

6 p.m. — Same as the first meal, or, if no meat has been 
given, the lightly-boiled yolk of one egg ; a little thin bread 
and butter. Milk and water. 

Later on a considerable proportion of animal food is desir- 
able, and where complete mastication cannot be secured, the 
meat must be pounded. Tonics, with iron, are frequently 
useful, but most reliance should be placed on cod-liver oil 
in addition to a liberal dietary. If difficulty is experienced 
in getting the oil well taken, a useful formula is the following, 
given by Drs. Meigs and Pepper : — 



01. Jec. Aselli . 


. 


• f-3J. 


l'ulv. Acacise . 


. 


q.s. 


01. Cinnaniomi 


. 


gtt. vj. 


Sacch. Alb. 


. 


q.s. 


Aq. Cinnaniomi 


. 


q.s. ad f.giij 



Dose. — A dessertspoonful three times a day after eating. 

Neurosal Affections of Children. 

In these days of competition and competitive examina- 
tions, when to most people success in life seems to depend 
not so much on good bodily growth as on early mental 
attainments, there is serious danger that in the case of chil- 
dren physical development may be neglected. 

Over-Pressure. — The mischief is often to a great extent 
done before medical advice is sought. The doctor is con- 
sulted only when the child has become pale, thin, and rest- 
less ; has lost appetite, starts and talks in sleep, and above 
all, has lost interest in lessons. The other symptoms may, 
perhaps, go unheeded, but this one soon attracts attention. 
On inquiry, it will be found in the majority of such cases, 



NEUROSAL AFFECTIONS. 155 

that the child's diet is thoroughly unsuited to the wants of 
the system ; that its exercise and open-air life are limited, 
and its lessons heavy. No wonder, then, that nutrition flags 
and the child falls out of health. We are concerned here 
with the question of diet only ; we must point out wherein 
the error lies, and what is the remedy therefor. 

Unsuitable Diet. — To feed young, delicate children, of an 
excitable and unstable nervous system, on a stimulating 
dietary, consisting largely of animal food, and to give them 
tea and coffee, and any form of alcoholic stimulant, with a 
view to strengthening them, is to overlook altogether and 
disregard the relation of special foods to particular con- 
stitutions and states of system. A highly nitrogenous diet, 
especially in cases where the child does not take much 
active exercise in the open air, besides worrying the nervous 
system, with excess of waste products, throws a great strain 
on the excretory organs. The urine contains a deposit of 
lithates ; the bowels become constipated or irregular in 
action — constipation alternating with diarrhoea — and this 
condition of mal-assimilation and defective nutrition often 
lays the foundation for serious organic disease in after-life. 

Defective Nutrition. — This defective nutrition, in these 
cases from over-feeding of a kind, is just as marked and 
as serious to deal with as the same condition, produced by 
an insufficient amount of food, in the children of the poor. 
Another way in which impaired digestive power is pro- 
duced and kept up, is by the evil habit, so often contracted 
by children, of eating cake, buns, or sweets between meals. 
The appetite for plain substantial food is taken away, and 
the stomach is unable to do its work properly at regular 
meal -times. Hence the twofold evil — an insufficient 
quantity of good food, and imperfect digestion of the food 
that is taken. 

Plain Food. — Healthy children, who have plenty of open- 
air exercise, do not require tempting dishes to make them 
eat, and, on the other hand, provided the child has been 



156 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

trained to eat its food slowly, and to masticate it thoroughly, 
there is little fear of a healthy child eating too much plain 
food. 

" The nutritive functions are so predominantly active for 
the purpose of carrying on growth and repairing the rapid 
waste caused by youthful activity, that if the natural craving 
for exercise in the open air be freely indulged, and due atten- 
tion be given to the development of the bodily frame, the 
young may very safely be left to choose for themselves both 
the quality and quantity of their food. In such circumstances 
the natural taste inclines so essentially to the preference 
of plain substantial nourishment, that there is very little 
risk of excess being committed. But where the parents 
are intent only on the intellectual advancement of their 
children, and accustomed to subject them daily to many 
successive hours of confinement and study, with only an 
hour or so of relaxation in the open air, as is too commonly 
the case both with those educated at home and in boarding- 
schools, an artificial state of beiug is induced, which makes 
the rule no longer applicable, and renders necessary a more 
careful attention to dietetic regimen." 

Animal Food. — " Among the higher classes of society, the 
unrestricted use of the most exciting kinds and preparations 
of animal food, and the daily use of wine, are the means 
generally resorted to for the removal of the delicacy thus 
engendered ; but when we consider the real state of the 
case, no remedy can seem more preposterous. The evils 
to be corrected are, imperfect nutrition and want of strength. 
Now the imperfect nutrition is caused, not by deficient 
food, but by impaired powers of digestion and assimilation ; 
and these suffer because the lungs are denied the free air, 
the muscles their necessary exercise, the brain its cheerful 
recreation, and the circulation the healthy stimulus which 
these united conditions infallibly produce." — Combe. 

Neurotic Children. — The children of neurotic parents, in- 
heriting as they do, often in an increased degree, tiie parental 



N EUROS AL AFFECTIONS. 157 

tendencies, suffer most under bad dietetic arrangements, and 
frequently develop symptoms of definite nerve disorder. 
Keen at lessons, highly sensitive, disinclined for exercise 
and boisterous games, they are often to be found in a quiet 
corner with a book when other more robust children are 
romping and shouting in the open air. They eat poorly 
of simple food, and often have a craving for stimulating 
and unwholesome articles of diet. These are for the most 
part the children that come under our notice, presenting 
the symptoms we have briefly enumerated, and they require 
careful dieting. The notion that all children should be 
brought up alike is a too common one; and yet there is 
good reason for believing that much permanent good or 
harm does result from the continuance of a suitable or an 
unsuitable dietary in childhood and during the period of 
rapid growth. 

Delicate Children. — We have in passing alluded to the 
diet of healthy children, placed in favourable hygienic con- 
ditions, and have seen that no special care beyond the 
selection of plain wholesome food is required ; but it is 
different in regard to delicate and neurotic children, with 
whose case we are now more particularly concerned. Their 
food must be more carefully selected, must be more dainty, 
and must be given in smaller quantities at a time, until 
the digestive organs have regained vigour, when a return 
to ordinary diet will be permissible. Children of this type 
have little appetite in the morning. They should have 
no work to do before breakfast, and they should not be up 
and about so early as to be exhausted before the breakfast- 
hour arrives. 

Dietary. — Breakfast. — If a small plate of porridge and 
cream, followed by a slice of brown bread and butter, can 
be taken, it forms an excellent meal. Some children 
prefer bread and boiled-milk, or rusks and milk, now and 
then for the sake of variety, which is often a point of 
importance in these cases; a cup of cocoa with plenty of 



158 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

milk in it, brown bread and butter, with an egg or a slice of 
bacon, may be substituted. 

Lunch. — In the middle of the forenoon a teacupful of 
milk and a biscuit, or bread and butter. 

The Midday Dinner should be the chief meal of the day, 
and should consist of a small slice of tenderly cooked meat 
or chicken, or a piece of fish with a little mashed or grated 
potato and well-boiled green vegetables, and a milk-pudding 
with stewed fruit; a small glass of water may be given, 
but not till towards the close of the meal. 

Tea should be a small meal, if the dinner has been 
adequate — a cup of warmed milk or of cocoa, with brown 
bread and butter. If dinner has not been sufficiently 
hearty, an egg may be given at tea. 

Supper. — A cup of bread and milk, or a plain milk- 
pudding. 

Fruit. — Eipe fruit may be added at breakfast, and is 
especially useful where there is a tendency to constipation. 
In some cases of greater delicacy it may be advisable to 
give the egg beaten up in milk at breakfast or at tea. 

Fat. — It is most desirable to have a good proportion of 
fat in some form in the dietary. Where it cannot be 
taken in sufficient quantity, as fat of bacon or of beef, or 
as butter and cream, it should be given in the shape of 
cod-liver oil. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 
ALCOHOL. 

General Contents : Action of Alcohol — Effect of Alcohol in Digestion — 
Use and Abuse of Alcohol. 

Alcohol. 

A short consideration of the place and uses of alcohol can 
hardly be separated from questions of clinical dietetics. 

However strong the feeling may be that the regular daily 
use of alcoholic beverages is unnecessary, or even hurtful, to 
the majority of healthy people, it can hardly be denied by 
the most ardent advocates of total abstinence that in many 
cases of illness alcohol is not only a beneficial, but a neces- 
sary adjunct to the treatment. 

The action of alcohol upon the body may be divided into 
its local and its general effects, and the latter subdivided 
into immediate effects and those that are remote. 

Effects of Small Doses. — Suppose a person totally un- 
accustomed to the use of alcohol to sip for the first time 
a glass of, say, sherry or of port wine. He will describe 
the sensation in the mouth as one of some astringency, with 
slight burning or tingling, and with an increase in the flow 
of saliva. After the wine has reached the stomach, the 
circulation through the gastric mucous membrane becomes 
more active, and there is an increased secretion of gastric 
juice, with a feeling of warmth and a keener appetite for 
food. Next it will be noticed that the heart's action is 
stronger, and the pulse increased in force and in frequency. 

159 



160 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

The circulation through the different organs of the body 
is fuller, and dilatation of the capillaries of the skin is 
evidenced by flushing of the face. The subject of the expe- 
riment will declare that he feels warmer, but the actual 
temperature of the body is found to be slightly lowered, 
owing to increased perspiration, and the fact that the 
dilatation of the vessels of the skin brings more blood to 
the surface, thus in a cool atmosphere more rapidly reduc- 
ing the temperature of the blood. 

The effect upon the nervous system is one of stimulation, 
all the nervous centres taking on increased activity, and 
the higher centres being affected before the lower ones. The 
feelings and emotions are excited, the imagination is more 
lively, and there is, for the time being, a feeling of greater 
physical strength. Our friend, after his glass of wine, is at 
first slightly talkative, perhaps argumentative ; presently 
he becomes more affectionate, and, if the dose be powerful 
enough, there follows thickness of utterance, disinclination 
for mental effort, and a tendency to drowsiness. 

Effects of Large Doses. — As regards the digestive organs, 
large quantities of alcohol pass beyond the point of stimu- 
lation and act as irritants, thus retarding the circulation, 
and hampering the digestive processes (cf. p. 9). 

Large amounts of alcohol produce effects upon the circula- 
tion and nervous system similar to those induced by small 
quantities, and in the same order, but in greater degree. 
The stage of excitement is more marked, and is rapidly 
followed by reaction and depression of function. 

Eecurring to the example already taken, if such a man 
as we have supposed imbibes a somewhat larger quantity 
of alcohol, or if any one accustomed to its habitual use takes 
a much larger amount than ordinary, all the symptoms of 
excitement are markedly present, but he speedily becomes 
intellectually dull and ceases to talk, the senses and finer 
feelings are blunted, then the voluntary muscles are affected, 
and he walks with difficulty or cannot walk at all — cannot 



ALCOHOL. 161 

even stand. His breathing becomes slow and laboured ; 
beginning at the extremities, the whole body becomes cold, 
and death may result from paralysis of respiration, or from 
failure of the heart. 

These facts explain why deaths from exposure readily occur 
in persons under the influence of alcohol, and why alcoholic 
beverages are unsuitable for use by those who are continu- 
ously exposed in cold climates to very low temperatures. 

Alcohol a Food. — It has often been questioned whether 
in reality alcohol is a food, but the balance of evidence is 
undoubtedly on the affirmative side. Alcohol, properly 
used, is a food of considerable value ; and on the other 
hand, when improperly used, and when taken in excess, 
alcohol is a poison. 

In health, when plenty of food is available and food is 
well assimilated, alcohol is not required ; but when food is 
scanty and assimilation defective, alcohol given in small 
quantity with the food not only aids digestion and assimi- 
lation, but, by to some extent retarding oxidation, it makes 
the food go further than it would otherwise do. " Hammond 
found that when, on insufficient diet, he was losing weight, 
the addition of a little alcohol not only enabled him to 
reach his former weight, but to add to it" (Brunton). 

Experimental Evidence. — The recent very interesting and 
valuable experiments of Sir William Roberts show what 
effects are produced upon both salivary digestion by small 
and by large quantities of alcohol. He found that spirits, 
in not greater proportion than about five per cent, did not 
interfere with salivary digestion, but rather tended to aid 
it by increasing the flow of saliva. The action of wines 
he found decidedly inhibitory, due to their acidity ; for when 
the acid was neutralised, there was no retardation. The 
same statement applies to beer. 

As regards gastric digestion, different kinds of spirit 
were found very much alike in their action, which depended 
on the amount of alcohol they contained. Up to ten per 

L 



i62 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

cent, of alcohol, there was little or no difference; above 
that proportion, the retarding power was manifest, until, 
with fifty per cent, of alcohol,- digestion was seriously inter- 
rupted. 

" These experiments, therefore, indicate that ardent spirits, 
as usually employed dietetically by temperate persons, act 
as pure stimulants to gastric digestion, causing an increased 
flow of gastric juice, and stimulating the muscular contrac- 
tions of the viscus, and so accelerating the speed of the 
digestive processes." 

Wines. — Regarding the action of wines he says : — " If 
we consider the copious proportions in which hock and 
claret are used dietetically, it becomes evident that their 
retarding effect on peptic digestion is often brought into 
play. ... On the other hand, the more sparing use of 
these wines, a glass or two with dinner or luncheon, would 
evidently not produce any appreciable retardation of peptic 
action, but would, like corresponding doses of sherry, act 
as pure stimulants. In both these instances, as in some 
others, it seems to be indicated that by adjusting the quan- 
tities we may elicit diverse effects. With large quantities 
we may obtain retardation ; with small quantities we may 
obtain acceleration of gastric digestion " {Roberts). 

Experience, as well as experimental evidence, show that 
the amount of alcohol taken by persons in good health in 
the twenty-four hours should not exceed the equivalent of 
one or one and a half ounces of absolute alcohol, and this, 
too, whether the beverage be wine, beer, or spirits. 

Alcohol In Sickness. — During illness this amount will 
often have to be exceeded, but it is open to grave doubt 
whether the very large quantities sometimes employed are 
not useless, or even hurtful. The quality of the beverage 
selected, and the tolerance of the individual constitution, as 
well as the previous habits of the person with regard to the 
use of alcohol, have all to be taken into account in coming 
to a decision in particular cases. 



ALCOHOL. 163 

Effects of Excess. — The evil effects that follow the con- 
tinued use of alcoholic stimulants in excess are so well 
known as hardly to need mention. Digestion becomes 
seriously disordered ; there are all the symptoms of chronic 
gastric catarrh, with usually morning vomiting. The heart 
is weak aud the circulation feeble. Fatty degeneration 
and fibroid contraction of different organs are found in the 
later stages. The mental faculties are greatly impaired. 
The will is weak, aud the impulses are uncertain. All 
this may take place without the individual ever taking 
enough at a time to make him intoxicated, or being, in the 
ordinary sense of the term, a drunkard. Occasional excess 
in alcohol does not produce such marked effects, as the system 
has time to recover itself between the bouts. 

Alcohol with Food. — It has been already said that 
alcohol is not necessary to persons in perfect health, but 
to those who are of more feeble habit of body, with slow 
or imperfect digestive power, alcohol in limited amount is 
certainly often of use. It should, however, never be taken 
by such persons early in the day, or at any time as a 
stimulant to work upon, and it should be taken with or 
just after food, not upon an empty stomach. This is a 
good general rule ; but it must be admitted that the local 
action of a very small quantity of alcohol upon the nerves 
of taste and upon the stomach may occasionally be applied 
with advantage at the beginning of a meal by those persons 
who, after some unusual fatigue, feel too tired to eat. A 
sip of wine or of dilute spirits and water at the commence- 
ment of the meal sometimes makes all the difference to 
the food being enjoyed and digested. The habitual use of 
such appetisers as sherry-and-bitters before dinner cannot, 
however, even on this ground, be recommended. Persons 
of unstable nervous system should avoid alcohol altogether. 

The value of alcoholic beverages in acute disease has 
already been discussed (p. 141). Some other points may 
here be summarised. 



164 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Summary. — A small or moderate amount of alcohol is 
useful in all cases where the action of the heart is weak. 
This may occur either in the later years of life, or during con- 
valescence from some acute illness, as well as during the 
course of acute disease, when there are signs of heart failure. 
The stimulant will, in these circumstances, help to sustain life, 
and so tide over a time of danger ; and it is besides useful 
in so far as it increases appetite and aids the digestion of 
food. Alcohol without food is decidedly dangerous, and 
life cannot be continued for any length of time upon it 
alone. 



CHAPTER XIX. 
PREPARED AND PREDIGESTED FOODS. 

General Contents : Malted Farinaceous Foods — Predigested Foods — 
Nutrient Enemata. 

Prepared and Predigested Foods. 

Some patients have difficulty in digesting starch, and in 
those cases where this defect exists the addition of malt to 
the farinaceous substance is very useful, partly on account 
of the nutritive qualities of the malt itself, but mainly 
because of the diastase and the action which that principle 
has in converting starch into dextrine and sugar. 

Use of Malt. — Malt may be employed either in powder 
or in the form of an extract, and may be added to fari- 
naceous foods, such as milk-pudding, just before they come 
to the table, and after they have cooled down to the tem- 
perature at which they can comfortably be eaten. If the 
malt extract be added while the temperature of the food is 
still high, the effect is lost, as the activity of the diastase is 
stopped by the heat. The malt may also, if preferred, be 
taken along with the food or immediately after it, but is 
comparatively useless if taken some considerable time after 
the food. Of prepared foods containing malt in combina- 
tion with farinaceous substances, many varieties are now 
sold. 

Prepared Foods. — Many preparations usually named 
" foods for invalids and infants," and of which the basis 
is baked flour of some sort, with malt, and with or without 
dried milk, can be obtained. While these foods hold a 

165 



166 



FOODS AND DIETARIES. 



useful place in the dietaries of the two classes for whom 
they are intended, they are, it is to be feared, too often 
used as substitutes for, instead of adjuncts to, milk. Those 
foods that contain milk have, of course, the higher nutri- 
tive value, and those containing sugar and malt are most 
valuable as additions to milk. Without milk and sugar, 
they form by themselves a very insufficient food, but they 
may be added to broths or beef-tea, and given as useful 
alternatives to milk. 

The predigestion of starch by heat was recognised before 
the introduction of prepared farinaceous foods, as is seen in 
the use of " tops and bottoms " for infants' food. A further 
great advance was made by the addition of malt to these 
foods, and a typical one early introduced is " Liebig's food 
for infants and invalids," containing malt powder, milk, 
baked wheaten flour, and saline matter. Another is that 
prepared by Messrs. Allen, Hanburys, & Co., of which they 
give the following analysis. 

Analysis of Allen & Hanburys Food. — One pound of 
malted food contains : — 



Starch rendered soluble by diastase, together 
with dextrine, maltose, and other soluble 
substances 

Albuminoids . 

Water .... 

Fat .... 

Cellulose 

Undetermined substances 

Mineral matter = phosphates, &c. 



13 (./.. 


I30 gl-8 


I » 


420 „ 




'43 » 




60 , 




123 „ 




44 » 




72 „ 



For one part of flesh-formers there are six parts of heat- 
producers, reckoned as starch. 

Kepler's Extract of Malt. — A reliable form is the Kepler 
extract of malt. A small teaspoonful added to a farina- 
ceous pudding or a plate of oatmeal porridge so acts upon 
the starch that in a comparatively few minutes liquefaction 
takes place. When symptoms of inal-nutrition are present, 



PREPARED AND PREDIGESTED FOODS. 167 

and especially when there is reason to believe that the 
system has difficulty in dealing with amylaceous substances, 
the malt extract should be given a fair trial. 

Predigestion of Foods. — Predigestion of food is necessary 
in cases where the digestive powers are so enfeebled that 
suitable food in ordinary forms cannot be digested. In 
such circumstances predigested foods are undoubtedly useful. 
In functional disorders they are of doubtful value, and they 
should not be resorted to until ordinary means have been 
tried and have failed. 

In organic diseases of the stomach and bowels they are 
very valuable, but they are useless, if not injurious, where 
it is the secondary digestive processes that are at fault. So 
much for the digestion of starch. 

Pepsin and Pancreatic Ferments. — Next come pepsin 
and the pancreatic ferments. Pepsin being the active prin- 
ciple of the gastric juice, retains its activity only in the 
presence of an acid ; hence the addition of a little dilute 
hydrochloric acid frequently aids the action of pepsin. 
Pepsin should be given at or just after those meals at 
which animal food is taken, since it acts upon albuminoids, 
and not upon farinaceous substances, nor upon fats. Pepsin 
is useful in cases of weak digestion ; for example, in the aged, 
or in persons recovering from acute disease?. It may be 
used in the form of powders or tabloids, which are very con- 
venient, or in the liquid form. Of the last named, a useful 
combination is the acid glycerine of pepsin. 

Pepsin with dilute hydrochloric acid may be used to 
predigest proteid foods, but it is found more convenient in 
practice to employ liquor pancreaticus, and to Sir William 
Eoberts we are indebted for much valuable information of a 
practical sort as to its use. The pancreatic fluid extract acts 
in an alkaline medium only, and to meet this Sir William 
lioberts, in his experiments, combined an alkali with liquor 
pancreaticus, and gave the extracts some time after a meal, 
gastric acidity being then considerably reduced. 



i68 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus. — To predigest foods, an 
ordinary extract of the pancreas of the pig, made by maceration 
of that organ in dilute spirit, can be used, but it is trouble- 
some to prepare, and- Benger's liquor pancreaticus is a very 
convenient form. In the case of milk, it is necessary to dilute 
it first, so as to prevent firm curdling, and an alkali must 
be added to prevent coagulation in the final boiling. 

The full instructions are the following: — 

Peptonised Milk. — " A pint of milk is diluted with a 
quarter of a pint of water and heated to a temperature of 
about 140° Fahr. Should no thermometer be at hand, the 
diluted milk may be divided into two equal portions, one of 
which is heated to the boiling-point and added to the cold 
portion, when the mixture will be of the required tempera- 
ture. Two teaspoonfuls of the liquor pancreaticus and ten 
grains of bicarbonate of soda are then added to the warm 
milk. The mixture is poured into a covered jug, and the 
jug is placed in a warm situation under a * cosey,' in order 
to keep up the heat. At the end of. an hour or an hour 
and a half the product is boiled for two or three minutes. 
It can then be used like ordinary milk." 

Peptonised foods do not keep long without further change, 
and it is better, therefore, not to peptonise at one time more 
than is required for twelve hours' use. More or less liquor 
pancreaticus can be used, according to the extent to which 
it is wished to carry the peptonising process. If carried to 
the full extent, a disagreeable bitter taste is developed. 

Peptonised Gruel. — Any ordinary farinaceous substance, 
such as flour, oatmeal, or arrowroot, may be used. " The 
gruel should be well boiled, and made thick and strong. 
It is then poured into a covered jug, and allowed to cool 
until it becomes lukewarm. Liquor pancreaticus is then 
added in the proportion of a dessertspoonful to the pint of 
gruel, and the jug is kept warm under a ' cosey ' as before. 
At the end of a couple of hours the product is boiled and 
strained." 



PREPARED AND PREDIGESTED FOODS. r69 

Peptonised Milk Gruel. — "A strong gruel of any farina- 
ceous substance is made. To the boiling gruel add a like 
quantity of cold milk. The temperature of the united milk and 
gruel will be about 1 2 5 ° Fahr. Add about two teaspoonf uls 
of liquor pancreaticus and ten grains of bicarbonate of soda 
(a small quantity of light magnesia has been suggested as 
an alternative alkali). Place this in a covered jug under a 
' cosey ' for an hour and a half, then boil for two minutes, 
and strain." 

Peptonised Beef-Tea. — " A pound of finely-minced lean 
beef is mixed with a pint of water, and ten grains of bicar- 
bonate of soda are added. The mixture is then simmered 
for an hour and a half in a covered saucepan. The result- 
ing beef-tea is decanted off into a covered jug. The undis- 
solved beef residue is then beaten up with a spoon into a 
pulp, and added to the beef-tea in the covered jug. When 
the mixture has cooled down to about 140° Fahr. (or when 
it is cool enough to be tolerated in the mouth), a table- 
spoonful of the liquor pancreaticus is added, and the whole 
well stirred together. The covered jug is then kept warm 
under a ' cosey ' for two hours, and agitated occasionally. 
At the end of this time the contents of the jug are boiled 
briskly for two or three minutes, and finally strained. The 
product is then ready for use." 

Peptonised Soups, Jellies, and Blanc-Mange. — " Soups may 
be prepared in two ways. The first way is to add what 
cooks call ' stock ' to an equal quantity of peptonised gruel 
or peptonised milk-gruel. A second and better way is to 
use peptonised gruel, which is quite thin and watery, instead 
of simple water, for the purpose of extracting the soluble 
matters of shins of beef and other materials employed in 
the preparation of soups. Jellies may be prepared by 
simply adding the due quantity of gelatine or isinglass to 
hot peptonised gruel, and flavouring the mixture according 
to taste. Blanc-mange may be made by treating peptonised 
milk in a similar way, and then adding cream. In pre- 



170 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

paring all these dishes, it is absolutely necessary to complete 
the operation of peptonising the gruel or the milk, even to 
the final boiling, before adding the stiffening ingredient; 
for if pancreatic extracts be allowed to act on the gelatine, 
the gelatine itself undergoes a process of digestion, and its 
power of setting or cooling is therefore utterly abolished " 
(Sir William Roberts). 

Fairehild's Peptonising Powders (Zymine). — These are 
very useful for peptonising milk, and especially for use in 
the case of infants brought up by " bottle." 

"Into a clean quart bottle pour a pint of fresh milk, 
one quarter of a pint of cold water, and one peptonising 
powder. Set this in water as hot as the hand can bear for 
thirty minutes, shaking occasionally. It may now be used." 

When not for immediate use, it should be boiled for two 
or three minutes, or put on ice to prevent the milk from 
becoming bitter. Keep in a cool place. 

Half an hour is as long as the process should be allowed 
to proceed, or the product will be unpleasantly bitter. 
Boiling is necessary to prevent peptonisation being carried 
out to the full extent, and thus leaving nothing for the 
digestive organs to do. 

Beef-tea may also be peptonised by the use of these 
powders. 

Nutrient Enemata. 

Occasions for the Use of Nutrient Enemata. — However 

undesirable it may be to depend upon nutrient enemata 
alone for any long-continued support of the body, there 
can be no doubt that they are most valuable in certain 
circumstances, by enabling the patient to hold out and 
to maintain his strength until the crisis that called for 
their use has passed. Such crises arise sometimes in the 
course of acute gastric catarrh, in gastric ulcer, in ulceration 
of the small bowel, and in other circumstances when the 
stomach is intolerant of all food. Again, when very little 



PREPARED AND PREDIGESTED FOODS. 171 

food can be taken and retained by the stomach, the balance 
of nutrition may be kept up by the addition, twice a day, 
of a nutrient enema. 

That the large bowel possesses, to a certain extent, powers 
of absorption is not now questioned, but it must be remem- 
bered that, under ordinary circumstances, the substances 
upon which its absorptive capabilities are exercised have 
been very much altered and prepared for absorption, by the 
action of the gastric and intestinal juices in their passage 
down the bowel. In other words, the foods have been, to a 
great extent, digested before they reach the colon. 

Use of Prepared and Predigested Foods. — This fact points 
strongly to the use of prepared and predigested foods in 
nutrient enemata. It may very well be doubted to what 
extent the old-fashioned enema of beef-tea, with a beaten- 
up egg, and some milk and brandy, was really absorbed. 
So far as the use of prepared foods, however, is concerned, 
we have every reason to believe that their predigestion 
renders them, to a large extent, capable of absorption by the 
large bowel. Sir William Roberts strongly recommends 
the use of the liquor pancreaticus as an addition to nutrient 
enemata, being convinced by his experience that it is very 
valuable for that purpose. A dessertspoonful should be 
added to an enema of beef-tea or of milk-gruel shortly 
before it is injected into the bowel. The prepared fari- 
naceous foods may likewise be used in this way, and also 
beef peptones and malt extruets, with the addition, if neces- 
sary, of wine or spirit. 

Some practical points in regard to the administration of 
nutrient enemata must be noticed. 

Rules. — (a.) A nutrient enema must always be small in 
bulk. About two ounces is an average quantity for an 
adult ; but if a long flexible tube can be easily passed well 
up the bowel, twice or three times that quantity may some- 
times be comfortably retained. 

(b.) A nutrient enema must be injected very gently and 



172 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

slowly, else contractions of the bowel and the evacuation 
of its contents will certainly be set up. 

(c.) The temperature of the enema is important. It 
must be lukewarm, not hot, and certainly not cold. 

(d.) Great care must be exercised in the introduction of 
the syringe. It must be passed gently into the bowel, 
and not pressed upon the mucous membrane each time at 
the same spot. If this rule be neglected, there is great 
risk that abrasion and ulceration will be set up. This 
point is, of course, of special importance where the use of 
enemata has to be continued for a length of time. 

(e.) Vaseline or oil should be used to lubricate the tube, 
and, at the same time, the anus, to prevent irritation. If the 
rectum and anus become irritable, the nutrient enemata 
cannot be retained, and this method of feeding may thus 
fail us at a critical moment. 

(/.) A few drops of laudanum added to a nutrient 
enema aids its retention, and gentle pressure, by means of 
a soft pad over the anus, is also helpful in cases where an 
enema is retained with difficulty. 

(g.) Care must be taken to see that the rectum does not 
become loaded with fasces. Occasional washing out of the 
bowel witli tepid water is useful. 



CHAPTER XX. 
INFLUENZA. 

This is not the place to discuss the pathology of the disease 
to which the name of influenza has become attached, nor 
have we space to enter upon a consideration of the etiology 
of the affection, but the importance of dietetic treatment in 
all forms of the disease admits of no question. 

Some cases require a diet similar to that which we 
should advise for patients suffering from any specific fever, 
but in others special measures for the support of the 
strength are undoubtedly necessary. The tendency is 
towards asthenia, and this is more marked in some cases 
than in others, though weakness is always a more or less 
prominent symptom. The resulting muscular prostration 
and depression of the nervous system are in most cases out 
of all proportion to the apparent severity and duration of 
the attack. Many patients complain of inability to walk 
any distance with comfort, or without feeling exhausted, and 
this is usually most marked in those who have not been able, 
during the attack, to take nourishment well. In others the 
most notable persisting symptom is feeble action of the 
heart, with a tendency to fainting after exertion, or if they 
have gone long without food. 

Three different varieties, at least, may be distinguished, 
according as the brunt of the attack has fallen upon the 
lungs, upon the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, or upon 
the nervous system. 

In the first group there is bronchial catarrh, with eleva- 
tion of temperature and some prostration, but fortunately 

without, as a rule, great repugnance to food. In these cases 

169* 



170* FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

we should advise a diet like the following at the commence- 
ment : — 

Six to eight ounces of milk, with one or two ounces of 
barley water, or of soda water, may alternate at intervals of 
two-and-a-half to three hours with like quantities of mut- 
ton-broth or chicken-tea or beef-tea. The broth or beef- 
tea should be thickened with some farinaceous substance 
(see p. 140). After a few days, when in uncomplicated 
cases temperature will have fallen, a diet of four small 
meals a day, with intermediate supplies of light nourishment 
will be suitable, thus : — 

Early in the morning, a cup of milk flavoured with tea. 

8.30. A lightly boiled egg, or a piece of fresh white fish, 
with toast and butter and one cup of weak tea with milk, 
or coffee and milk or cocoa. 

11.30. A cupful of broth or beef- tea, with fingers of toast, 
or thickened with some biscuit (crumbled). 

1.30. Fresh white fish or chicken, or other bird, with a 
little mashed potato and well-boiled green vegetable : some 
simple pudding. 

4.30. A cup of weak tea with plenty of milk, toast and 
butter. 

7.30. A meal like the midday one. 

10.30— 1 1. A cupful of prepared farinaceous food, or of 
gruel or arrowroot. 

Stimulants. — The amount will vary in different cases, 
according to the state of the pulse and the general strength 
of the patient. Where there is no "special indication of 
weakness, a tablespoonful of spirit in water, with the mid- 
day and with the evening meal, will suffice. Others will 
require and will benefit by a larger allowance. A dessert- 
spoonful at 11.30 and another at 7.30 in water, or in effer- 
vescing water, and one in the food at bedtime, will not in 
these cases be too much. As convalescence progresses a 
couple of glasses of champagne at the midday and evening 
meals may take the place of the spirits. 



INFLUENZA. 171* 

In the group of cases, where gastro-intestiiial catarrh 
is a prominent symptom, careful dietary is very essential. 
Food must be bland, non-irritating, and easily digested, 
leaving little residue, and not such as is likely to set up 
fermentative changes. For details the reader is referred to 
pp. 39 and 40. 

In the third group of cases, where the nervous system 
is profoundly affected, patients can take and can bear large 
quantities of food. In some cases, indeed, of this type, 
feeding must be kept up regularly through the night, sleep 
being obtained only after food has been taken. 

A characteristic of many cases in this group is the 
absence of any rise of temperature, or other sign of febrile 
disturbance. The temperature, indeed, often falls below 
normal, and this is most noticeable when any considerable 
time has elapsed since the last supply of food has been 
taken. 

In the class of cases we are now considering, it is not 
necessary to restrict the patient entirely to liquid nourish- 
ment. Solids may be given almost, if not quite, from the 
commencement, though of course food must be very simple. 
There should be three good meals a day, with some inter- 
mediate supplies between them, and light food should be 
given several times during the night. 

Breakfast. — A couple of eggs, or egg and bacon, or 
white fish, with bread, or toast and butter ; a cup of cafe- 
au-lait or of cocoa. 

In the forenoon a small cup of soup or of good beef-tea 
thickened with some farinaceous material. 

Luncheon. — Any light tender meat — chicken, game, or 
mutton — with a little mashed potato ; any simple pudding. 

Beverage. — A couple of glasses of good claret or of 
champagne, or from one to two tablespoonfuls of whisky 
in a little effervescing water. 

Afternoon Tea. — Tea, with plenty of milk, or cocoa; 
bread and butter or toast and butter. 



172* FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Dinner. — A meal like luncheon. 

Beverage. — A pint of claret or of champagne. Before 
settling for the night a cupful of prepared farinaceous food 
or of gruel, with a tablespoonful of brandy or whisky in it. 

During the night milk or soda water, with a dessert* 
spoonful of brandy in it, or beef jelly or beef-tea, warmed 
by being kept under a cosey, should be given once or twice. 

Stimulants. — In the above directions the amount of 
stimulant mentioned is not more than would be required 
in an average case of the kind, but in many a considerably 
larger quantity may be given, not only without harm, but 
with great benefit. 



APPENDIX. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

General Contents — Cooking for Invalids : Beef Essences — Beef Tea — 
Nutritious Beef-Tea — Beef -Tea with Oatmeal — Mutton Broths — Chicken- 
Tea — Calf's-Foot Broth — Mutton Broth — Veal Broth — Egg and Brandy 
— Egg and Sherry — Caudle — Another Caudle — Milk and Isinglass — 
Arrowroot — A Gruel — Oatmeal Gruel — Tamarind Water — Arrowroot 
and Black-Currant Drink — Cream of Tartar (Potus Imperialis) — Rice 
Water — Snow Pudding — Lemonade — Milk Lemonade — Rice and Milk 
— Oatmeal Porridge — Milk Porridge — Whole Meal Porridge — Irish Moss 
— Toast Water — Barley Water — Milk, Eggs, and Brandy — Port- Wine 
Jelly — Bread Jelly — Wine Jelly — Chicken Panadas — Game Panada — 
Nourishing Soup — Tapioca Soup with Cream — Pure"e of Potatoes — Cream 
of Barley — Maccaroni with Milk — Maccaroni (Stewed in Stock) — Lamb's 
Head — Cow-Heel Fried — Ox Palates — Sweetbread — Sweetbread witli 
White Sauce — Calf's Head — Tripe — Breast of Lamb with Vegetables — 
Kedgeree — Fish Soup — Calf's-Foot Jelly — Blanc-Mange — Arrowroot 
Pudding — Custards — Rice Pudding — Rice Cream — Corn-Flour — Hominy 
Pudding — Blanc-Mange — Cream — A Ripe Fruit Cream — Chocolate 
Cream — Summer Fruit Pudding — Apple Charlotte— Charlotte Russe — 
Omelet Souffle" — Omelet Savoury — Peptonised Milk— Peptonised Gruel 
— Peptonised Milk Gruel— Peptonised Soups, Jellies, and Blanc-Manges 
— Peptonised Beef-Tea — Peptonised Enemata — Whey — White Wine 
Whey — "Tops and Bottoms in Milk." 

1. Beef Essence. 

Take one pound of gravy beef, free from fat and skin. Chop 
it up very fine ; add a little salt, and put it into an earthen 
jar with a lid; fasten up the edges with a thick paste, such 
as is used for roasting venison in, and place the jar in the 
oven for three or four hours. Strain through a coarse sieve, 
and give the patient two or three teaspoonfuls at a time. 

*73 m 



174 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 



2. Beef Essence. 



Cut up in small pieces one pound of lean beef from the sir- 
loin or rump, and place it in a covered saucepan, with half a 
pint of cold water, by the side of the fire for four or five hours 
then allow it to simmer gently for two hours. Skim it well, 
and serve. 

3. Beef -Tea. 

Cut up a pound of lean beef into pieces the size of dice ; put 
it into a covered jar with two pints of cold water and a pinch 
or two of salt. Let it warm gradually and simmer for a couple 
of hours, care being taken that it does not reach the boiling- 
point. 

4. Nutritious Beef-Tea. 

To a pint of beef-tea or mutton broth (not too strong) add 
two tablespoon fuls of powdered biscuits or bread-crumb ; boil 
for five minutes, stirring well all the time. 

5. Beef- Tea with Oatmeal. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, very smooth, with two 
spoonfuls of cold water ; then add a pint of strong boiling beef- 
tea. Boil together for five or six minutes, stirring it well all 
the time. Strain it through a sieve, and serve. 

6. Mutton Broth. 

Cut one pound of lean mutton into dice ; to this put one quart 
of cold water, then let it simmer on the hob for three hours; 
take off the scum as required, and add a pinch of salt. Strain 
off the fluid, let it stand till it is cold, then remove the fat, 
if any 

7. Mutton Broth. 

Two or three pounds of neck of mutton, two pints of water, 
pepper and salt, half a pound of potatoes, or some pearl barley. 

Put the mutton into a stewpan, pour the water over it, add 
pepper and salt. When it boils, skim carefully ; cover, the pan 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 175 

and let it simmer gently for an hour. Strain it, let it get cold, 
and then remove all the fat. When required for use, add some 
pearl barley or potatoes in the following manner : — Boil the 
potatoes, mash them very smoothly, so that no lumps remain. 
Put the potatoes into a pan, and gradually add the mutton 
broth, stirring it till it is well mixed and smooth ; let it simmer 
for five minutes, and serve with fried bread. 

8. Chicken-Tea. 

Cut up a fowl in small pieces. Put it into an earthen vessel 
with some salt and three pints of water ; let it boil three hours, 
set it to cool, then take off the fat. 

9. Calf's-Foot Broth. 

One calf's foot, three pints of water, one small lump of sugar, 
the yolk of one egg. 

Stew the foot in water, very gently, till the liquor is reduced 
to half ; remove the scum, set it in a basin till quite cold, then 
take off every particle of fat. Warm up about half a pint, 
adding the sugar ; take it off the fire for a minute or two, then 
add the beaten yolk of the egg. Keep stirring it over the fire 
till the mixture thickens, but do not let it boil, or it will be 
spoiled. 

10. Mutton Broth. 

Take a pound of mutton, cut it up into small pieces, take a 
thick slice of bread, toast one-half of it a rich brown colour, 
crumble the other half, and put it into two quarts of cold water 
with any flavouring preferred, or even without any ; boil gently 
to a pint and a half, and strain. Take off the fat when cold, if 
it be objected to. 

11. Veal Broth. 

A knuckle of veal, two cow-heels, twelve pepper-corns, a glass 
of sherry, and two quarts of water. 

Stew all the ingredients in an earthen jar six hours. Do not 
open it till cold. When wanted for use, skim off the fat and 
strain it. Heat as much as you require for use (Ringer). 



176 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 



12. Egg and Brandy. 

Beat up three eggs to a froth in four ounces of cold water, 
add two or three lumps of sugar, and pour in four ounces of 
brandy, stirring all the time. A portion of this to be given at 
a time. 

13. Egg and Sherry. 

Beat up with a fork an egg till it froths, add a lump of sugar 
and two tablespoonfuls of water ; mix well, pour in a wineglass- 
f ul of sherry, and serve before it gets flat. 

14. Caudle. 

Beat up an egg to a froth, add a wineglassful of sherry and 
half a pint of gruel ; flavour with lemon-peel and nutmeg, and 
sweeten to taste. 

Another Caudle. 

Mix well together one pint of cold gruel with a wineglassful of 
good cream ; add a wineglassful of sherry and a tablespoonful of 
noyeau, and sweeten with sugar-candy. 

15. Milk and Isinglass. 

Dissolve a little isinglass in water, mix it well with half a 
pint of milk, then boil the milk, and serve with or without 
sugar, as preferred. 

16. Arrowroot. 

Mix two teaspoonfuls of the best arrowroot with half a wine- 
glassful of cold water ; add a pint of boiling water ; put it into 
an enamelled saucepan, and stir over the fire for three minutes. 
Sweeten with three teaspoonfuls of sifted loaf-sugar. 

17. A Gruel. 

Beat up an egg to a froth ; add a wineglass of sherry ; 
flavour with a lump of sugar, a strip of lemon-peel, and a 
little grated nutmeg. Have ready some gruel, very smooth and 
hot ; stir in the wine and egg, and serve with sippets of crisp 
toast. Arrowroot may be made in the same way. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 177 



18. Oatmeal GrueL 

Put a pint of boiling water into a saucepan ; into this stir 
a couple of tablespoonf uls of oatmeal until quite smooth ; let 
this boil well for ten or fifteen minutes ; season with salt, then 
strain through a strainer. 

19. Tamarind "Water. 

Boil two ounces of tamarinds with a quarter of a pound of 
stoned raisins in three pints of water for an hour ; strain, and 
when cold it is fit for use. 

20. Arrowroot and Black-Currant Drink. 

Take two large spoonfuls of black-currant preserve ; boil it 
in a quart of water ; cover it, and stew gently for half an hour, 
then strain it, and set the liquor again on the fire ; then mix 
a teaspoonf ul of arrowroot in cold water, and pour the boiling 
liquor upon it, stirring meanwhile ; then let it cool. 

21. Cream of Tartar (Potus Imperialis). 

Put half an ounce of cream of tartar, the juice of one lemon, 
and two tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar into a jug, and pour over 
a quart of boiling water. Cover till cold. 

22. Rice-Water. 

Wash three ounces of rice in several waters, and then put 
it into a clean stewpan with a quart of water and one ounce 
of raisins ; boil gently for half an hour, and strain into a jug. 
When cold it is ready for use. 

23. Snow-Pudding. 

Put into half a pint of cold water half a package of gelatine. 
Let it stand one hour ; then add one pint of boiling water, half 
a pound of sugar, and the juice of two lemons. Stir and strain, 
and let it stand all night. Beat very stiff the whites of two 
eggs and beat well into the mixture. Pour into a mould. 



178 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 



24. Lemonade. 

Express the juice of a large-sized lemon and strain it. Put 
it into a jug, adding about a third of the rind cut thin, and 
four or five pieces of lump sugar. Pour over this one pint of 
boiling water, and cover it over for two hours. Strain, and 
when cool it is ready for use. 

25. Milk Lemonade. 

To a pint of boiling water add six ounces of loaf sugar, six 
ounces of lemon-juice, a like quantity of sherry, and sixteen 
ounces of cold milk. Stir thoroughly, and strain through a jelly- 
bag. 

26. Rice and Milk. 

To a quart of milk add a quarter of a pound of rice, which 
has been well washed ; simmer for an hour, stirring very fre- 
quently. Flavour with cinnamon or lemon-peel, and just before 
serving sweeten to taste. 

27. Oatmeal Porridge. 

Boil some water quickly in a saucepan, and add to it a pinch 
of salt. Into the water sprinkle some oatmeal, stirring briskly 
all the time. Let it simmer for at least half an hour. The 
porridge may be made thick or thin, according to taste. 

28. Milk Porridge. 

Into half a pint of water put two ounces of oatmeal. Let 
it soak for ten or twelve hours; then pass it through a sieve 
into a saucepan ; boil for half an hour, and before serving add 
five or six ounces of milk. 

29. Whole-Meal Porridge. 

Into a quart of boiling water sprinkle slowly half a pound 
of wheat-meal, and boil till thoroughly soft. It may be served 
like ordinary porridge with milk or sugar, or marmalade or 
treacle, or Kepler's extract of malt. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 179 



30. Irish Moss. 

Wash well an ounce of Irish moss, and then let it soak for 
four or five hours in a quarter of a pint of cold water. Add 
half a pint of milk and half a pint of water (or a pint of milk) ; 
boil from five to seven minutes, and strain through muslin. It 
may be flavoured with cinnamon or vanilla, or simply sweetened 
with sugar, and when cool will set firmly. 

31. Toast-Water. 

Boil a quart of water, and pour it upon a good-sized piece of 
crumb of bread, which has been well toasted before a clear fire, 
until it becomes very crisp and of a dark-brown colour (not 
black). Let it steep for half an hour, and then decant it into 

a j"g- 

32. Barley-Water. 

Put an ounce of barley-water into an enamelled saucepan with 
a quart of cold water, and boil for two hours. Stir it, and skim 
it occasionally. Strain through muslin, and sweeten with a little 
sugar-candy. The juice of a lemon, strained, may be added. 

33. Milk, Egg, and Brandy. 

Scald some new milk, but do not let it boil. It ought to be 
put into a jug, and the jug should stand in boiling water. 
When the surface looks filmy, it is sufficiently done, and should 
be put away in a cool place in the same vessel. When quite cold, 
beat up a fresh egg with a fork in a tumbler, with a lump of 
sugar; beat quite to a froth, add a dessert-spoonful of brandy, 
and fill up the tumbler with scalded milk. 

34. Port-Wine Jelly. 

Put into a jar one pint of port-wine, two ounces of gum- 
arabic, two ounces of isinglass, two ounces of powdered white 
sugar-candy, a quarter of a nutmeg grated fine, and a small 
piece of cinnamon. Let this stand closely covered all night. 
The next day put the jar into boiling water, and let it simmer 
till all is dissolved ; then strain it, let it stand till cold, and then 
cut it up into small pieces for use (Ringer). 



)8o FOODS AND DIETARIES. 



35. Bread- Jelly. 



Take three or four slices of bread, remove the crust, and toast 
them to a light brown colour. Put the bread into a pan with 
two pints of cold water, and simmer for an hour and a half or 
two hours ; strain through muslin, sweeten, and flavour with a 
little wine and lemon-juice. Pour into a mould, and turn out 
when required for use. 

36. Wine-Jelly. 

Into an enamelled saucepan put a pint of cold water; add 
an ounce and a quarter of Russian isinglass and three ounces 
of sugar. Let this boil gently till the isinglass is dissolved, 
removing the scum from time to time. Strain, and add the 
juice of one lemon or of two oranges, and a third of a pint of 
sherry. Pour into a mould, and turn out when required. 

37. Chicken Panada (i). 

Take the flesh from the breast of a fresh roasted cbicken ; 
soak the crumb of a French roll or a few rusks in hot milk, 
and put this in a clean stewpan, with the meat from the chicken 
previously reduced to a smooth pulp by chopping it and pounding 
it in a mortar ; add a little chicken-broth or plain water, and 
stir the panada over the fire for ten minutes. 

38. Chicken Panada (2). 

Half a chicken is required for one panada. Take the flesh off 
the bones, cut it into small pieces, and put them into a gallipot, 
sprinkling over them half a salt-spoonful of salt. Cover the top 
of the gallipot with paper, tied down, and stand it in a saucepan 
half-full of boiling water. Let it simmer for two hours. Take 
out the pieces of chicken with a spoon, put them in a mortar, 
and pound them to a pulp. Pass the pounded chicken through 
a sieve, adding a little of the liquor to make it pass more easily. 
Stir into the basin with the pulp one tablespoonful of cream. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 181 



39. Game Panada. 



Prepare in the same manner as the foregoing. The breast of 
a pheasant or partridge may be used in place of chicken. 

40. Nourishing Soup. 

Take a pound of good lean beef and a pound of mutton, and cut 
them into pieces the size of dice. Take also a calf's foot and 
split it. Put them into a jar with two quarts of cold water, and 
let them simmer in the oven for five or six hours, adding about 
the middle of that time another quart of water, and some simple 
seasoning. When the quantity is reduced to one and a half 
quarts, take it'out of the oven and strain. When cold, remove 
the fat. This soup may be taken cold, or may be warmed up 
with a little pepper and salt. 

41. Tapioca Soup with Cream. 

Take a pint of white stock and pour into a stewpan. When 
it comes to the boil, stir in gradually one ounce of prepared 
tapioca. Let it simmer slowly by the side of the fire until the 
tapioca is quite clear. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir with a wooden spoon, 
and pour through a strainer into another basin. When the stock 
has cooled, add it by degrees to the mixture, stirring well all the 
time, so that the eggs may not curdle. Pour it back into the 
stewpan, and warm before serving. Add pepper and salt to 
taste. 

41a. Puree of Potatoss. 

Take one pound of potatoes, peel them, and cut them in thin 
slices, also two leaves of celery well washed. Put an ounce of 
butter in a stewpan, add the potatoes and celery. Put the stew- 
pan on the fire, and let the vegetables sweat for five minutes, 
taking care they do not discolour. Pour into the stewpan one 
pint of good white stock ; stir frequently to prevent burning. Let 
it boil gently till the vegetables are quite cooked. Heat half a 
pint of the white stock in another stewpan. Pass the contents 
of the first stewpan through a sieve into a basin, adding by 



1 82 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

degrees the half-pint of hot white stock, which will enable it to 
pass through more easily. Pour the purde back into the stew- 
pan, and season according to taste, adding a quarter of a pint of 
cream. Stir smoothly till it boils. 

42. Cream of Barley. 

Take half a pound of veal cutlet ; pare off all the fat, and cut 
the lean into small pieces. Put this into a saucepan with one 
pint of cold water ; add half an ounce of well-washed barley that 
has soaked for an hour or two in cold water, and half a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Let it boil for two hours. Strain off the 
liquor, and put the meat and barley in a mortar. Pound them 
together, and then rub them through a sieve, pouring on the 
sieve a little of the liquor. Stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream. 

43. Maccaroni with Milk. 

Take half a pound of maccaroni ; wash it, and put it in a sauce- 
pan of cold water with a tablespoonful of salt. Let it boil for 
half an hour ; then pour out the water, and add to the maccaroni 
one quart of milk, and let it simmer gently for an hour. 

44. Maccaroni (Stewed in Stock). 

Take half a pound of maccaroni ; put it into a saucepan of cold 
water with a dessert-spoonful of salt. Let it boil for ten minutes, 
and then put the maccaroni into a cullender and run some cold 
water on it. After draining it, turn it on a board and cut it 
into small pieces. Put the maccaroni thus cut up into a sauce- 
pan with one pint of good white stock. Bring it to the boil, and 
let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Season with pepper and 
salt to taste, and serve on a hot dish. 

45. Lamb's Head. 

Take out the brains and cut them up fine, and stew them in 
a white sauce. Stew the head till quite tender. Take the meat 
off the bones ; lay it on the centre of a dish ; egg and bread- 
crumb it, and brown in an oven. Serve with brain-sauce poured 
round the dish. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 



46. Cow-Heel Fried. 



Stew the heel about eight hours until the meat leaves the bone 
easily ; press it between two plates till cold and set ; cut it into 
strips, roll them up ; egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them. 
Or- 

Simply stewed, and the meat, when taken from the bone, 
served with good stock sauce. 

47. Ox Palates. 

Boil the ox palates about eight hours ; then skin them, and 
serve with a good brown gravy. 

48. Sweetbread. 

Soak one sweetbread in water for an hour ; then change the 
water and soak for another hour ; then put them into boiling 
water and let them simmer for ten minutes, or rather more, till 
they become firm; drain, and when cool brush well over with 
beaten-up egg ; roll them in bread-crumbs, dip again in egg, and 
add some more bread-crumbs ; sprinkle over them a little oiled 
butter, and bake in an oven, basting them till they are sufiiciently 
done, and of a bright brown colour. Serve on toast, with a little 
brown gravy round the dish. 

49. Sweetbread with White Sauce. 

Soak one sweetbread for an hour. After boiling for ten 
minutes, put it into cold water for twenty minutes. Pour over 
it, while in a saucepan, half a pint of good white stock ; season 
according to taste. Simmer gently for half an hour ; take it out 
and keep it warm in the oven. Let the sauce boil, thickened 
with a little flour and butter, and when quite smooth stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Place the sweetbread on a dish ; add 
a teaspoonful of lemon- juice to the sauce, and pour it over. 

50. Calf's Head. 

Take half a calf's head; soak it well in- cold water. Parboil 
it in water, to which has been added a little salt, for nearly half 
an hour. Put it into a stewpan with seasoning ; add a little 



184 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

water, and let the whole boil gently for an hour and a half. 
Serve with parsley-sauce poured over it, and small pieces of fat 
bacon fried. The tongue and brains may be served on the same 
dish or separately. 

51. Tripe. 

Take half a pound of clean, fresh tripe, and wash it in cold 
water ; then cut into small squares, taking care to leave but little 
fat Put half a pint of milk into a stewpan, with a pinch of salt, 
and one of castor-sugar ; add a little mustard. Put the tripe 
into the stewpan, let it boil up, skimming carefully. It should 
now be allowed to simmer for three or three and a half hours, 
and should be stirred frequently during that time. Mix a tea- 
spoonful of cornflour with a little cold 'milk to a smooth paste, 
and stir it in. After simmering for five minutes more, it may 
be served on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over it. 

52. Breast of Lamb with Vegetables. 

Take the breast of tender lamb, cut away the skin and most of 
the fat. Divide it into small pieces, and sprinkle with flour. 
Brown them in a stewpan with a little butter; add as much 
warm water as will cover the meat. Flavour with vegetables to 
taste, and add pepper and salt. Remove the fat, and simmer for 
an hour and a half. Before simmering, a pint of young peas or 
tender broad beans may be added. If these are not in season, 
pearl-barley answers welL 

53. Kedgeree. 

Take some cold cooked fish, break it well down. Boil for half 
an hour a cupful of rice in white stock. Mix the fish with the 
rice, and when the whole is heated stir in an egg. 

54. Fish Soup. 

Take the liquor in which lish has been boiled. Take also the 
bones, skin, and other parts, and put them into two pints of the 
liquor, and let it simmer till reduced to two-thirds of its bulk. 
Strain, and season with vegetables, as well as salt and pepper and 
a few drops of anchovy. When about to be served, stir in a 
small cupful of boiling milk. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 185 



55. Calfs-Foot Jelly. 

Take two calf's feet, split them, boil them in one quart of 
water ; skim them thoroughly, and let them simmer for about 
four hours. Strain, and when cold remove the fat. Put into 
a stewpan with one pound of sugar the juice of six lemons, the 
rind of three, half a stick of cinnamon (bruised). Let this dis- 
solve over a slow fire, and then add the whites of three eggs, well 
whipped up with five ounces of water, and continue until it 
begins to boil. Add half a pint of sherry ; allow it to simmer 
gently for another quarter of an hour. Strain through a jelly- 
bag. Repeat the straining several times, and pour into moulds. 

56. Blanc-Mange. 

Put a quart of milk into a saucepan with three ounces of loaf- 
sugar, and one inch of cinnamon-stick, or a small piece of lemon- 
peel for flavouring. Let it boil. Put four tablespoonfuls of 
cornflour into a basin, and mix it smoothly with a little cold 
milk. When the milk in the saucepan is quite boiling, stir in 
the cornflour quickly, and let it boil for two minutes, stirring 
continually. Remove the flavouring, and pour into a mould. A 
little cream added to the milk is an improvement. 

57. Arrowroot Pudding. 

Take a dessert- spoonful of arrowroot, put it into a basin with 
the yolks of two eggs, a dessert-spoonful of milk and a teaspoon - 
ful of castor-sugar. Whip it smoothly into a paste. Take a 
saucepan, and put into it half a pint of cold milk. Watch the 
milk carefully till it boils. When quite boiling, pour it on to the 
arrowroot mixture, stirring all the time to get it quite smooth. 
Whip the whites of the two eggs, and add them to the mixture, 
stirring them lightly together. Pour the mixture into a buttered 
dish, and put it in a quick oven for ten minutes. 

58. Light Pudding. 

Make into a smooth paste a teaspoonful of flour, and pour 
over it six ounces of boiling milk, slightly flavoured, if desired. 



1 86 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

Stir well, while adding a teaspoonful of sugar and a pinch of 
salt ; when cold strain, and add it to a beaten-up egg. Pour the 
whole into a basin (buttered), and bake for twenty minutes in 
the oven. 

59. Custard (i). 

Boil a pint of new milk in an enamelled saucepan for two or 
three minutes, with three ounces of loaf-sugar, and the rind of 
half a lemon cut into thin slices. Allow it to cool for a few 
minutes. Beat up five eggs, and while stirring briskly add the 
milk to the eggs. Put the mixture again into the saucepan, and 
warm it over a gentle fire, constantly stirring till it begins to 
thicken. Strain through a fine sieve, and add two wine-glasses 
of good cream. The custard may be flavoured with brandy or 
with a liqueur. 

60. Custard (2). 

Take two eggs to a gill of milk, beat the eggs, and warm the 
milk before adding it to the eggs. Put it into a jug, and the 
jug into a pan of boiling water, and stir it till it thickens. It 
takes about a quarter of an hour. 



61. Rice-Pudding. 

Into half a pint of milk put two teaspoonfuls of rice well 
washed. Boil for two hours, stirring frequently, and sweeten 
with pounded sugar ; take it off the fire and allow it to cool for 
a quarter of an hour. Then stir in the yolks of two eggs well 
beaten up. Bring it again to the boiling point, and boil for 
about one minute, stirring the while. 



62. Rice-Cream. 

Boil three ounces of rice in a quart of milk till quite soft; 
when cold, whip into it a teacupful of good cream, and half an 
ounce of isinglass melted in milk ; when well whipped, pour into 
a mould with a hollow centre, and turn out when quite firm. 
Fill the centre with fresh stewed fruit or with any good preserve ; 
whip up a pint of thick cream and pour it over the shape. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 187 



63. Cornflour. 

Mix a dessert-spoonful of cornflour with four or five table- 
spoonfuls of milk. Boil half a pint of milk, and add this to the 
cornflour paste, stirring over the fire for four or five minutes ; 
sweeten to taste, and, if allowable, add a tablespoonful of cream. 

64. Hominy Pudding. 

Soak for ten or twelve hours half a pint of hominy in a pint 
and a quarter of boiling water (the vessel should have a well- 
fitting cover). When thoroughly soaked, put the hominy into 
a pudding dish with a pint of milk, and bake in the oven for 
twenty or thirty minutes. 

65. Blanc -Mange. 

Take one ounce of pure isinglass, and dissolve it in a saucepan 
over a slow fire in one pint of milk. To this add half the rind 
of a lemon and half a pint of cream. After boiling for ten or 
fifteen minutes, take out the lemon rind, sweeten and flavour to 
taste. Before pouring into a mould, a little wine or brandy may 
be stirred in. 

66. Cream. 

Whip a pint of good cream to a froth. When thoroughly 
whipped, add a liqueur glass of brandy, or of a liqueur, six ounces 
of castor-sugar, and two ounces of isinglass. Mix thoroughly, 
and pour into a mould. When cold it is ready for use, and may 
be turned out. 



67. A Ripe Fruit Cream (e.g., Strawberry). 

Take a basket of strawberries, bruise the fruit, with six ounces 
of castor-sugar. Then rub through a hair sieve, add a pint of 
whipped cream and two ounces of pure isinglass ; when thoroughly 
mixed, pour into a mould. Raspberries, &c, may be used in the 
same way. 



188 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 



68. Chocolate Cream. 

Take three ounces of grated chocolate, and put it into a stew- 
pan, with half a pint of boiled milk, three ounces of sugar, and 
the yolks of four eggs. Stir on the fire till it thickens : pass 
through a hair sieve, add one ounce of gelatine, and when thor- 
oughly mixed pour into a mould. 

69. Summer Fruit Pudding. 

Line a pudding-basin with bread and butter; have stewed 
fruit ready (red-currants and raspberries or strawberries are 
best because of their juice). Mix plain bread-crumbs with the 
fruit, and put into the basin. Turn it out and cover it with 
custard. The pudding must be made the day before it is used 
to fix it thoroughly, and to allow the bread to become saturated 
with the fruit. 

70. Apple Charlotte. 

Take two pounds of good cooking apples peeled, and cut into 
slices without the cores. Put the slices into a stewpan with 
sufficient sugar to sweeten them and quarter of a pint of water. 
Take the rind of a lemon and tie it together with a piece of string, 
and put it into the stewpan with the apples. Stir all on the 
fire till it boils, and the apples are reduced to about half their 
quantity. It will take from one to one and a half hours. Take 
out the lemon-peel ; cut a slice of the crumb of bread ; line the 
mould at the bottom and sides, having first dipped the slices 
into clarified butter. Pour the apples into the mould, and cover 
over with a round of bread like that lining the bottom of the 
mould. Bake in an oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

71. Charlotte Russe. 

Take a pint tin ; line it inside with finger-biscuits, fitting the 
biscuits close to each other, and cutting off any points that 
remain above the tin. Put half an ounce of the best gelatine 
with a quarter of a pint of cold milk, and let it soak well. Take 
half a pint of double cream and whip it in a basin to a stiff 
froth ; add a dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar, and flavour with 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 189 

vanilla, lemon, or orange. Put the stewpan on the fire and stir 
the gelatine till it is melted. Pour the melted gelatine through 
a sieve, and stir into the cream. 

72. Omelet Souffle\ 

Break two eggs ; put the whites in one basin, the yolks in 
another. Put one teaspoonful of orange-flower water and one 
tablespoonful of castor-sugar into a stewpan. Let them boil 
quickly for three minutes. Then pour it into a cup to cool, 
adding to it the yolks of the eggs, and beat them to a cream ; 
add a pinch of salt to the whites of egg and whip them to a 
stiff froth ; add the whites to the mixture in the basin, and mix 
them together very lightly. Put half an ounce of butter into 
a frying-pan, and when the butter is hot pour in the mixture. 
Let it remain on a slow fire for about two and a half minutes; 
then put the pan into a hot oven for three or four minutes. 
Melt a dessert-spoonful of jam. Take the soufflee out of the 
oven, turn it on to a hot dish ; spread the jam upon it and fold 
it over like a sandwich. Sprinkle it over with white sugar. 

73. Omelet (savoury). 

Made as above, omitting the jam, sugar, and orange-flower 
water, and adding salt and pepper, with parsley and other herbs. 

74. Peptonised Milk. 

" A pint of milk is diluted with a quarter of a pint of water, 
and heated to a temperature of about 140° Fahr. Should no 
thermometer be at hand, the diluted milk may be divided into 
two equal portions, one of which is heated to the boiling-point, 
and added to the cold portion, when the mixture will be of the 
required temperature. Two teaspoonfuls of the liquor pan- 
creaticus and ten grains of bicarbonate of soda are then added 
to the warm milk. The mixture is poured into a covered jug, 
and the jug is placed in a warm situation under a ' cosey ' in 
order to keep up the heat. At the end of an hour or an hour 
and a half the product is boiled for two or three minutes. It can 
then be used like ordinary milk" 



igo FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

" The object of diluting the milk is to prevent the curdling which 
would otherwise occur, and greatly delay the peptonising procesa 
The addition of bicarbonate of soda prevents coagulation during 
the final boiling, and also hastens the process. The purpose of 
the final boiling is to put a stop to the ferment action — when this 
has reached the desired degree — and thereby to prevent certain 
ulterior changes which would render the product less palatable. 
The degree to which the peptonising change has advanced is best 
judged of by the development of a peculiar bitter flavour, which 
is always associated with the artificial digestion of milk. The 
point aimed at is to carry the change so far that the bitter 
flavour is just perceived, but not unpleasantly pronounced." 

75. Peptonised Gruel. 

" Gruel may be prepared from any of the numerous farinaceous 
articles in common use, — wheaten flour, oatmeal, arrowroot, sago, 
pearl-barley, pea or lentil flour. The gruel should be well boiled, 
and made thick and strong. It is then poured into a covered jug, 
and allowed to cool until it becomes lukewarm. Liquor pan- 
creaticus is then added, in the proportion of a dessert-spoonful to 
the pint of gruel, and the jug is kept warm under a 'cosey ' as 
before. At the end of a couple of hours the product is boiled and 
strained." 

76. Peptonised Milk-GrueL 

" First, a thick gruel is made from any of the farinaceous articles 
above mentioned. The gruel, while still boiling hot, is added to an 
equal quantity of cold milk. The mixture will have a tempera- 
ture of about 125° Fahr. To each pint of this mixture two or three 
teaspoonfuls of liquor pancreaticus and ten grains of bicarbonate 
of soda are added. It is kept warm in a covered jug under a 
1 cosey ' for an hour or an hour and a half, and then boiled for 
two or three minutes and strained. If the product has too much 
1 litter flavour, a smaller quantity of the liquor pancreaticus must 
be used in the next operation. Invalids take this compound as 
a rule, if not with relish, at least without any objection. 

" As it is impossible to obtain pancreatic extract of absolutely 
constant strength, the directions as to the quantity to be added 
must be understood with a certain latitude." 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 191 

77. Peptonised Soups, Jellies, and Blanc-Manges. 

'• Soups may be prepared in two ways. The first way is to add 
what cooks call stock, and to an equal quantity of peptonised 
gruel or peptonised milk-gruel. A second and better way is to 
use peptonised gruel, which is quite thin and watery, instead of 
simple water, for the purpose of extracting the soluble matters 
of skins of beef and other materials employed in the preparation 
of soups. 

" Jellies may be prepared by simply adding the due quantity of 
gelatine or isinglass to hot peptonised gruel, and flavouring the 
mixture according to taste. 

" Blanc-manges may be made by treating peptonised milk in a 
similar way, and then adding cream. In preparing all these 
dishes, it is absolutely necessary to complete the operation of 
peptonising the gruel or the milk, even to the final boiling, before 
adding the stiffening ingredient. For if pancreatic extract be 
allowed to act on the gelatine, the gelatine itself undergoes a 
process of digestion, and its power of setting on cooling is 
therefore utterly abolished." 

78. Peptonised Beef-Tea. 

"A pound of thinly-minced lean beef is mixed with a pint of 
water, and ten grains of bicarbonate of soda are added thereto. 
The mixture is then simmered for an hour and a half in a covered 
saucepan. The' resulting beef-tea is decanted off into a covered 
jug. The undissolved beef residue is then beaten up with a 
spoon into a pulp, and added to the beef -tea in the covered jug. 
When the mixture has cooled down to about 140° Fahr. (or 
when it is cool enough to be tolerated in the mouth), a table- 
spoonful of the liquor pancreaticus is added, and the whole well 
stirred together. The covered jug is then kept under a ' cosey ' 
for two hours, and agitated occasionally. At the end of this 
time the contents of the jug are boiled briskly for two or three 
minutes and finally strained. The product is then ready for use." 

79. Peptonised Enemata. 

" Pancreatic extract is peculiarly adapted for administration 
with nutritive enemata. The enema may be prepared in the 



1 92 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

usual way "with a mixture of milk and gruel, or milk, gruel, 
and beef-tea. A dessert- spoonful of liquor pancreaticus is added 
to it just before administration " (Sir William Roberts). 

80. Whey. 

Into warm milk put a sufficient quantity of rennet to cause 
curdling, and strain off the liquid, which is then ready for use. 

81. White-Wine Whey. 

Boil a pint of milk, and while boiling add two wineglassfuls 
of sherry. Strain through a fine sieve, and sweeten with sifted 
sugar. 

82. "Tops and Bottoms" in Milk. 

Over the bread in a basin pour a sufficiency of boiling water 
to soak it. Let it stand for a minute or two, then strain off the 
water, sprinkle with a little sugar, and add hot milk. 

83. Savoury Jelly. 

Take half a chicken, one pound of neck of veal, one pound lean 
beef (from under the shoulder is the best part for beef -tea, &c), 
cut the meat off the chicken, separate the joints, then cut all the 
meat, veal, beef, and chicken up very small ; put the whole into an 
earthen mug, with two quarts of water, salt, pepper, a few herbs 
(whichever may be allowed) ; let them stew gently five or six hours 
in the oven ; take off all fat with blotting-paper ; strain through 
a hair-sieve into a mould. When hot, give the patient a few tea- 
spoonfuls at a time. This is a very nutritious jelly. 

84. Barley-Gruel. 

Take one ounce of pearl-barley, one ounce of rice, one ounce 
of sago. Wash them all, then put them into an earthen vessel 
with a quart of water and a pinch of salt ; let them stew gently 
for three hours, until the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. 
Strain through muslin, add a little sugar, and sherry or brandy. 



FOODS AND DIETARIES. 193 

85. Maccaroni Cheese. 

Take two ounces of rich new cheese, scrape it very fine, tie it 
up in muslin, put into cold water (half a pint), let it boil for half 
an hour, then take the cheese out ; put into the liquid half an 
ounce of best maccaroni with pepper, very little salt, and three or 
four small pieces of butter ; let it simmer gently for an hour and 
a quarter, then beat up the yolk of an egg with a tablespoonful 
of cream, stir them into the maccaroni, put into a slightly but- 
tered pie-dish. Place before the fire until it is nicely browned, 
then serve. 

86. Buttered Eggs. 

Take one egg, beat it up with one tablespoonful of fresh milk, 
a little pepper and salt ; put. a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
into a small lined saucepan ; when it is melted, beat the egg, &c , 
into it; put it on the fire, beating all the time with a fork, until 
it is just set ; then turn it on to a slice of hot buttered toast, 
which should be ready before cooking the egg, so that it can be 
served at once. 

87. Gum Water. 

Take an ounce of the best gum arabic, two ounces of sugar, put 
them into an earthen vessel with a pint of water. Let it stand in 
a saucepan of boiling water, stirring occasionally until dissolved ; 
add the juice of one lemon. This is a useful drink for stopping a 
tickling cough. It should be taken hot, very little at a time. 

88. Meat Lozenges. 

Soak an ounce of best isinglass in a pint of beef essence (see 
recipe No. 1 for beef essence) for one hour ; put it into a stewpan. 
when it boils, skim it continually until no more scum rises, then 
allow it to boil fast, uncovered, for a short time ; when it be- 
comes the consistency of strong gum, pour it on to a dish. When 
cold cut into lozenges. Put them away in a dry place in a tin 
box ; they will keep for a long time. 

89. Raw-meat Sandwiches. 

Three ounces of raw beef or mutton, one ounce of very fine 
bread-crumbs, one teaspoonful of castor- sugar; cut the meat very 



194 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

fine, rub it through a hair-sieve, then pound it in a mortar into 
a paste. Mix with it the bread-crumbs, sugar, a little salt and 
pepper ; spread it between thin slices of either brown or white 
bread and butter. These sandwiches will often create an appe- 
tite, if the patient is not allowed to know that the meat is raw. 

90. Chicken Souffle^. 

Take the flesh of one lightly-boiled chicken ; pound it in a 
mortar, rub it through a hair-sieve with wooden spoon ; mix it 
with three gills of good chicken or veal stock, a little pepper and 
salt, a little nutmeg (if liked) ; put it into a clean stewpan, stir 
it over the fire for ten minutes. Add the yolks of three eggs, one 
at a time (remove the pan off the fire whilst doing so), then add 
four stiffly beaten whites (it is best to beat the whites of eggs on 
a large dish or flat plate with a bread or carving knife — they 
become stiff sooner than any other way) ; beat lightly until 
thoroughly mixed, then pour into buttered soufflee case. Bake 
in a hot oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve at once. 

91. Beef or Mutton Tea for Anaemic Patients. 

One pound of lean beef, or one and a half pound of lean mutton, 
as freshly killed as possible. Chop the meat very fine, add to it 
one pint of cold water, ten drops of hydrochloric acid, and let it 
stand for six hours. Put it into a stewpan over a slow fire, allow 
it just to boil, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently 
for two hours ; strain it through a rather coarse sieve ; remove 
all fat with blotting-paper at once. Add a little pepper and salt. 
The patient should take about a port-wine glassful twice daily. 

92. Tapioca Jelly. 

Take a teacupful of best tapioca, soak it in one pint of cold 
water for six hours, then put it into a saucepan with a little salt, 
one tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and the rind and juice of one 
lemon ; add another pint of water ; stir until it boils. Let it boil 
for twenty minutes ; take the rind of the lemon out, add a claret 
glassful of either port or sherry, or a port-wine glassful of brandy. 
Whilst cooling turn into a mould. When cold it is ready for use. 



FOODS AND DIETARIES. 195 

93. Savoury Custard. 

One gill of hot chicken-broth (see recipe for chicken-broth, 
No. 8), a little pepper and salt (a little chopped parsley is a great 
improvement if allowed). Take two eggs, beat well ; add the hot 
broth, salt, pepper, &c, stirring carefully all the time. Pour it 
into a buttered mould, then place it in a saucepan of boiling 
water up to the same height the custard is in the mould (the 
mould must be covered with buttered paper). Steam it gently 
for thirty to forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, served 
with gravy poured round. 

94. Nutritious Chicken-Broth. 

One fine young chicken (not fat), two pounds of the scrag end 
of neck of veal, salt, pepper, celery, and any herbs which may be 
allowed (for a delicate digestion only a little salt and pepper). 
Cut both chicken and veal into small pieces, also putting the 
bones of the chicken with the meat in two quarts of water into 
an earthen vessel. Let it stew very gently in the oven for five 
hours. When cold take off all fat. 

Chicken-broth, as well as beef-tea, mutton-broth, or any soup, 
is more digestible for patients, thickened with either arrowroot 
or boiled flour. Barley or rice is sometimes ordered to thicken 
broth ; few patients like them. Bread-crumbs rubbed through a 
hair-sieve into the broth, and allowed to simmer for five minutes, 
thicken it nicely. 

95. Lamb's Foot. 

Soak one lamb's foot in boiling water for half an hour, then 
put it in half a pint of veal stock, salt and pepper to taste (any 
herbs if allowed), into a clean stewpan. Let it simmer gently for 
an hour and a half, then serve with white sauce as follows : — 
Half an ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, half a gill of the 
stock in which the foot was stewed, half a gill of cream, half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and a few drops of lemon-juice mixed. 
Mix the flour smoothly into a thin paste with the stock, add the 
butter and cream, stir gently over the fire for a few minutes, add 
the other ingredients gradually. Let all simmer gently together 
for five minutes, stirring all the time. 



iq6 FOODS AND DIETARIES. 

96. Calfs Foot. 

Soak one calf's foot in three pints of water all night, pour the 
water over it boiling, then let it remain until the next morning. 
Put it into a clean stewpan ; let it simmer for three hours in the 
water it has stood in, add salt and pepper. Remove all the large 
bones before serving. Serve with sauce as for lamb's foot, only 
of course made with double the quantity. 

97. Milk and Oatmeal. 

Put a breakfastcupful of milk into a clean saucepan; when it 
begins to simmer, sprinkle into it a small tablespoonful of fine 
oatmeal, stirring quickly all the time. Let it simmer for half an 
hour, add a little salt or sugar according to taste. 



INDEX. 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Absorption . 




Banting's Diet . 


94 


An important part of digestion 


5 


Biliary Calculi . . . . 


46 


Alcohol 


!59 


Bright's Disease . . . . 


61 


in acute peritonitis 


43 


Alcohol in . . 


32, 64 


in acute rheumatism . 


123 


Diarrhoea in . 


35 


in asthma . 


109 


Dietaries in . 


66 


in atonic dyspepsia 


16 


Diluents in . 


62 


in Bright's disease 


62 


Diuretics in . 


61 


in diarrhoea . 


37 


Milk diet in . 


61 


in dysentery 


4i 


Origin of ... . 


63 


Effects of excess . 


163 


Over-feeding in . 


63 


As a food 


161 


Rest to kidneys in 


64 


Effects of, in gastritis . 


26 


Use of milk in 


65 


Effects of large doses . 


160 


Bronchitis (Acute). See Fevers 


137 


Effects of small doses . 


159 


Bronchitis (Chronic) . 


in 


in fevers . . . . 


141 


Diathesis in . 


in 


in gastric catarrh . 


11 


Dietary in . 


in 


in gout (acute) 


9i 






in gout (chronic) . 


86 


Cancer of Stomach 


22 


in heart-disease . 


164 


Degeneration of stomach in 


23 


in hysteria . 


133 


Diet for 


24 


in inflammation of liver 


49 


Dilatation of stomach in 


22 


in liver derangements . 


48 


Pain in . 


23 


in perityphlitis 


44 


Carbo-Hydrates . 




in phthisis . 


102 


Heat and force producers 


3 


in scrofula . 


83 


Children, Diseases of . 


148 


in scurvy 


70 


Cod-Liver Oil — 




in typhlitis . 


41 


in anaemia 


74 


in typhoid fever . 


145 


in chronic rheumatism . 


125 


Alcoholism (Acute) 


128 


in emphysema 


no 


Dietary in 


128 


in phthisis . 


100 


Exclusion of alcohol 


130 


in scrofula . 


80 


Nutrient enemata in . 


130 


Constipation 


29 


Alcoholism (Chronic) . 


126 


Complicated by dyspepsia 


33 


Dietary in . 


126 


Dietary for (simple) 


32 


Ancemia .... 


72 


Effects of diet in . 


29 


Alcohol in . 


■ 74 


Exercise in cases of 


3 2 


Causes of 


72 


Fruit, effects of, in 


3 1 


Cod-liver oil in 


74 


in gastric catarrh . 


12 


Diet in .... 


75 


in heart-disease . 


114 


Hygiene in cases of 


73 


in phthisis 


108 


Iron in . 


• 73 


Sedentary habits . 


30 


Rest in bed in severe cases o 


f 73 


in ulcer of stomach 


. 19 


Aortic Aneurism 


. 119 






Diet in cases of . 


. 119 


Delirium Tremens 


128 


Mr. Tufnell's diet for . 


. 120 


Diabetes Mellitus 


• 5 1 


Asthma .... 


108 


Combination of foods in 


• 54 


Alcohol in . 


. 109 


Dietaries in . 


• 55 


Dietary in 


. 109 


Definition of . 


• 5 1 


Digestive disorders in . 


. 108 


Insipidus 


• 59 


Small evening meals in 


. 108 


Nutrition in . 


• 53 



1 98 



INDEX. 



Diabetes Mellitus — 

Pathology of ... 52 

Preliminary steps in treatment 55 
Rationale of diet in -54 

Rigid diet in 53 

Diarrhoea . . . . . 34 
Alcohol in . . . -37 

in Bright's disease, &c. . 35 

Chronic .... 36 

Chronic in children . . 149 
Fatty . . . . -35 

Mucous 35 

Nervous 35 

in phthisis .... 107 

Raw meat in 37 

Temporary .... 36 

Diathetic Diseases. See Fevers . 137 

Dietary in alcoholism (acute) . 128 

in alcoholism (chronic) . 127 

in anaemia 75 

in aortic aneurism IX 9 

in asthma .... 109 

in atonic dyspepsia . . 15 

in Bright's disease (chronic) . 66 

in bronchitis (chronic) . . 111 

in constipation with dyspepsia 33 

in constipation (simple) 32 

in derangements of liver 47 

in diabetes mellitus . 55 

in diarrhoea (chronic) . . 37 
in diarrhoea of childhood 

(chronic) .... 149 
in diarrhoea (mild) 38 
in diarrhoea (simple) 37 
in diseases of childhood . 149 
Dry diet in heart-disease . 117 
in emphysema, pulmonary . no 
in fevers . . • . 138 
in fever, typhoid . 144 
in gastric catarrh ... 10 
in glycosuria . . -59 
in gout (acute) ... 91 
in gout (chronic) ... 80 
in gravel and uric acid cal- 
culus 49 

in heart disease (chronic) 115-118 
in indigestion of childhood . 148 
in neurosal affections of chil- 
dren 155 

in obesity -95 

in phthisis . . .104 

in pleurisy with effusion . 1 13 

in pulmonary emphysema no 

in rickets .... 153 

in scrofula .... 79 

in scurvy .... 70 

in ulcer of stomach . 20 

in Weir Mitchell treatment . 133 

Digestion, conditions of healthy . 3 

impairment of, in fevers 138 

Diluents 62 



Diluents — 




in fevers .... 


140 


in gout (acute) 


92 


in gout (chronic) . 


88 


Diseases of Children . 


148 


Chronic diarrhoea . 


149 


Indigestion of childhood 


148 


Rickots .... 


150 


Diuretics in Bright's disease 




(chronic) .... 


64 


in gout ..... 


89 


in heart-disease (chronic) 


117 


in pleurisy .... 


112 


Dysentery 


40 


Alchohol in . 


4i 


Liberal diet in chronic . 


4 1 


Dyspepsia (Atonic) 


12 


Baths and exercise in . 


J 3 


Constipation with . 


33 


Dietary in 


15 


General want of tone in 


13 


in glycosuria 


59 


in gouty subjects . . 85, 87 


Emphysema (Pulmonary) . 


no 


Condition of lungs in . 


no 


Diet in . 


no 


in the gouty .... 


no 


Enteritis (Acute) 


39 


Gastro-enteritis . 


39 


Nutrient enemata in . 


40 


Prepared and peptonised 




foods in 


40 


Fairchild's Peptonising Powders 




(Zymine) .... 


170 


Fevers 


137 


Alcohol in ... . 


140 


Impairment of digestion in . 


138 


Limitation of albuminoids in 


139 


Liquid diet in 


138 


Milk diet in . 


138 


Necessity for precise direc- 




tions in ... 


137 


Prepared foods in 


140 


Thirst in ... . 


140 


Foods 


165 


Albuminoids 




Allen & Hanbury's 


166 


Carbo-hydrates 


2 


Groups of 


1 


Mellin's food . . 34, 


166 


Prepared foods 


165 


Use of malt .... 


165 


Predigested . . . 20 


167 


Allen k Hanbury's 


166 


in anaemia .... 


74 


Beef-tea in fevers 


140 


in diabetes .... 


54 


Dry diet in heart-disease 


117 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Predigested— 
in enteritis . . 27 40 

Excess of farinaceous food in 

diseases of children . 
Farinaceous foods in acute 

rheumatism 
Mellin's 
Peptonised foods 

Prepared foods in fevers 



15: 



Gastric Catarrh (chronic) . 

Acute .... 

Alcohol in . 

Causes of 

Constipation in 

Dietary in . 

Diet in convalescence from 

Effects of alcohol in 

in heart disease . 

Pathology of 

Predisposition to . 

Symptoms of 

Treatment of severe cases of 
Gastro-Intestinal Catarrh . 
Glycosuria .... 

Danger of kidney-disease in 

Dietaries in . 

Distinction from diabetes 

Gouty .... 

Temporary . 
Gout (Acute and Chronic) . 

Acute .... 

Alcohol in . . 

Diet in . 

Chronic 

Association with liver de 
rangements 

Dietaries in . 

Emphysema with . 

Excess of uric acid in . 

Gouty glycosuria . 

Lead-poisoning in 

Limitation of nitrogenous ele 
ments in . 

Predisposing causes of 

Use of fats in 

Use of fruits in 

Use of fruits with alkalies in 

Value of simple fluids in . 
Gravel 



123 
166 
168 
140 



10 

11 

26 

117 

25 

26 



46 

89 
no 

84 

58 
84 

87 
85 
87 
86 
86 
88 
49 



Hcematemesis .... 24 

Heart, Diseases of . . .114 

Alcohol in . . . 118, 164 

Chronic valvular . . .114 

Constipation in . 114 

Diet in (chronic) . . .114 

Dropsy in . . 117 

Flatulence in . . .114 

Gastric catarrh in . . 117 



Heart, Diseases of— 

Value of dry diet in 

Weak and fatty 
Hygiene in Phthisis 
Hygiene in Rickets 
Hysteria 

Alcohol in 

Liberal diet in 

Weir Mitchell treatment of 

Inflammation of bowels 

of colon 

of liver 

of stomach . 
Inflammatory Dyspepsia . 

Kidneys, Diseases of . 

Lead-Poisoning . 
Liver, Diseases of 

Acute congestion of 

Dietaries for 

Functional derangement of 

Inflammations of . 

Malignant disease of . 

Morbid growths in 

Symptoms of 

Use of alcohol in . 
Lungs, Diseases of 

Mastication, importance of 
Milk Diet in Bright's disease 

in diseases of childhood 

in fevers 

in phthisis . 

in rheumatic fever 

in typhoid fever . 

Nervous Disorders 

Neurosal Affections of Children 

Animal food in 

Defective nutrition in . 

Diet in . 

Over-pressure in . 

Plain food in 

Unsuitable diet in 
Nutrient Enemata 

in acute enteritis . 

in acute gastric catarrh 

in acute peritonitis 

Occasions for use of 

Eules for use of . 

in typhoid fever . 

in ulcer of stomach 

Use of prepared and pre 
digested foods in 

Obesity 

Banting's plan in 
Causes of 
Dietary for . 



199 

PAGE 

117 
114 
IO4 

;o, 151 
131 
i33 
131 
*33 

39 
40 

49 
24 



61 

85 
45 
48 
46 
45 
49 
49. 
49 
45 
48 
97 



61-65 
152 
138 
99-103 
122 
142 

131 

154 

156 

155 

157 

154 

155 

155 

170 

40 

27 

43 

170 

171 

r 45 

J 9 

171 

93 
94 
93 
95 



INDEX. 



Obesity — 

Ebstein's plan in . 
Fatty degeneration with 
Gradual change of diet in 

Oxaluria .... 

Pepsin .... 
Peptonising Powders (Fairchild's 
Peritonitis (acute) 

Alcohol in 

Artificially digested foods in 

Nutrient enemata in . 

Rest to the bowels in . 
Perityphlitis 
Phthisis .... 

Alcohol in 

Cod-liver oil in 

Constipation in 

Diarrhoea in . 

Diet in . 

Dietaries in . 

Diluted milk and whey in 

Distaste for fat in 

Hectic stage of 

Hygiene in . 

Improved nutrition in . 

Koumiss in . 

Malt extracts in . 

Milk diet in . 
Pleurisy with effusion . 

Dietary in 

Diuretics, &c, in . 

Dry diet in . 
Polyuria (Diabetes Insipidus) 

Diet in . 

Rheumatic Fever. See Acute 

Rheumatism 
Rheumatism (Acute) . 

Alcohol in 

Farinaceous foods in 

Milk with alkalies in . 

Non-nitrogenous diet in 
Rheumatism (Chronic) 

Cod-liver oil in 

Diet in . 

Malt extract in 
Rickets .... 

Scrofula .... 
Acquired 
Alcohol in . 
Alteratives and courses of 

waters in . 
Cod-liver oil in 
Diet in . 
Dietaries in . 
Different types of 
Results of improper feeding in 
Uric acid diathesis in . 



95 
94 
96 

50 

167 
170 
42 
43 
42 
43 
42 

43 
97 
102 
100 
108 
107 

103 
104 
100 
98 
106 
104 

99 
100 
102 

99 
112 

"3 
112 
112 

59 
60 



122 
122 
123 
123 
122 
122 
124 
124 
124 
124 
150 

78 
78 
83 

81 
80 

79 
82 
8r 
78 
82 



Scrofula — 

Wet nurse in 
Scurvy .... 

Diet in . 

Lemon-juice in 

Necessity for soft food in 

Stimulants in 

Syncope in . 
Stomach 

Appearance of healthy sto 
mach when empty 

Cancer of 

Diseases of . 

Effects of irritation on mu 
cous membrane of 

Effects of stimulants on mu 
cous membrane of 

Inflammation of . 

Ulcer of 

Typhlitis .... 

Alcohol in 

Concentrated foods in . 
Typhoid Fever 

Alcohol in 

Beef-tea and broths in. 

Condition of stools in . 

Convalescence from 

Danger of over-feeding in 

Dietaries in . 

Fruits in 

Milk diet in . 

Necessity for precise direc 
tions as to food in 

Nutrient enemata in . 

Ulceration 

Of small bowel 

Of stomach . 
Ulcer of Stomach 

Danger of relapse in 

Dietaries for 

Gradual enlargement of diet 
ary in 

Nutrient enemata in . 

Rest in. 

Sedatives, use of, in 

Use of alkalies in . 
Uric Acid Calculus 
Uric Acid Dialhciis in St7-tuna 

Vomiting in Acute Gastric Ca 
tarrh. 
in cancer of stomach 
in peritonitis 
in ulcer of stomach 

Weir-Mitchell Treatment 
Wet Nurse .... 
Whey in Fevers . 
Winrs .... 



79 
69 
69 
70 

70 
70 
69 



4 
24 
17 

40 

•I 1 

4i 

142 

145 
144 
142 
146 
142 
144 

147 
142 

J 43 
145 



39 
17 



19 



49 

82 



28 
23 
42 
18 

133 

79 

140 

162 



1T.INTED BY BALLANTYNK, HANSON AND CO. 
EDINBURGH AND LONDON. 



A Classified Catalogue of 
Books on Medicine and the 
Collateral Sciences, Phar- 
macy, Dentistry, Chemistry, 
Hygiene, Microscopy, Etc. 



l£ 



P. Blakiston's Son & Company, Pub- 
lishers of Medical and Scientific Books, 
1012 Walnut Street, Philadelphia 



No. 8. 6-3-01. 



SUBJECT INDEX. 



Special Catalogues of Books on Pharmacy, Dentistry, 
Chemistry, Hygiene, and Nursing will be sent free upon 
application. All inquiries regarding prices, dates of edition, 
terms, etc., will receive prompt attention. 



SUBJECT. PAGE 

Alimentary Canal (see Surgery) 19 

Anatomy 3 

Anesthetics 14 

Autopsies (see Pathology) 16 

Bacteriology (see Pathology).. 16 

Bandaging (see Surgery) 19 

Blood, Examination of 16 

Brain 4 

Chemistry. Physics 4 

Children, Diseases of 6 

Climatology 14 

Clinical Charts 6 

Compends 22, 23 

Consumption (see Lungs) 11 

Cyclopedia of Medicine 8 

Dentistry 7 

Diabetes (see Urin. Organs).. 21 

Diagnosis 17 

Diagrams (see Anatomy) 3 

Dictionaries, Cyclopedias 8 

Diet and Food 14 

Dissectors 3 

Ear 9 

Electricity 9 

Emergencies (see Surgery) 19 

Eye 9 

Fevers 9 

Food 14 

Gout 10 

Gynecology 21 

Hay Fever 20 

Heart 10 

Histology 10 

Hospitals (see Hygiene) xi 

Hydrotherapy 14 

Hygiene 11 

Hypnotism 14 

Insanity 4 

Intestines (see Miscellaneous) 14 
Latin, Medical (see Miscella- 
neous and Pharmacy) 14, 16 

Life Insurance 14 

Lungs 11 

Massage 12 

Materia Medica 12 

Mechanotherapy 12 

Medical Jurisprudence 13 



SUBJECT. PAGE 

Mental Therapeutics 4 

Microscopy 13 

M ilk Analysis (see Chemistry) 4 

Miscellaneous 14 

Nervous Diseases 14 

Nose 20 

Nursing 15 

Obstetrics 16 

Ophthalmology 9 

Organotherapy 14 

Osteology (see Anatomy) 3 

Pathology 16 

Pharmacy 16 

Physical Diagnosis 17 

Physical Training 12 

Physiology 17 

Pneumotherapy 14 

Poisons (see Toxicology) 13 

Practice of Medicine 18 

Prescription Books 18 

Refraction (see Eye) 9 

Rest 14 

Rheumatism 10 

Sanitary Science 11 

Skin 19 

Spectacles (see Eye) 9 

Spine (see Nervous Diseases) 14 
Stomach (see Miscellaneous)... 14 

Students' Compends 22, 23 

Surgery and Surgical Dis- 
eases 19 

Syphilis ai 

Technological Books 4 

Temperature Charts 6 

Therapeutics 12 

Throat ao 

Toxicology 13 

Tumors (see Surgery) 19 

U.S. Pharmacopoeia 17 

Urinary Organs ao 

Urine ao 

Venereal Diseases ai 

Veterinary Medicine ai 

Visiting Lists, Physicians'. 
(Send for Special Circular.) 

Water Analysis 11 

Women, Diseases of. ai 



Self-Examination for Medical Students. 3500 Questions on 
Medical Subjects, w >h References to Standard Mr oris in which the 
correct replies will be it und Together with Questiors from State 
Examining Boards. 3d Edition, fuit Ready. Paper Cover, 10 cts. 



SUBJECT CATALOGUE OK MEDICAL BOOKS. 3 

SPECIAL NOTE.— The prices given in this catalogue are 
net, no discount can be allowed retail purchasers under any considera- 
tion. This rule has been established in order that everyone will be 
treated alike, a general reduction in former prices having been made to 
meet previous retail discounts. Upon receipt of the advertised price any 
book will be forwarded by mail or express, all charges prepaid. 



ANATOMY. 

MORRIS. Text-Book of Anatomy. 2d Edition. Revised and 
Enlarged. 790 Illustrations, 214 of which are printed in colors. 
Thumb Index in Each Copy. Cloth, {6.00 ; Leather, {7.00 

" The ever-growing popularity of the book with teachers and students 

is an index of its value." — Medical Record, New York. 

BROOMELL. Anatomy and Histology of the Human Mouth 
and Teeth. 284 Illustrations. $4 50 

CAMPBELL. Dissection Outlines. Based on Morris' Anatomy. 
2d Edition. .50 

DEAVER. Surgical Anatomy. A Treatise on Anatomy in its 
Application to Medicine and Surgery. With 400 very Handsome full- 
page Illustrations Engraved from Original Drawings made by special 
Artists from dissections prepared for the purpose. Three Volumes. 
Cloth, $21 00; Half Morocco or Sheep, $24.00; Half Russia, #27 00 

GORDINIER. Anatomy of the Central Nervous System. 
With 271 Illustrations, many of which are original. Cloth, $6.00 

HEATH. Practical Anatomy. 8th Edition. 300 Illus. $4.25 

HOLDEN. Anatomy. A Manual of Dissections. Revised by A. 
Hbwson, m.d., Demonstrator of Anatomy, Jefferson Medical College, 
Philadelphia. Over 300 handsome Illustrations. 7th Edition. In 
two compact i2mo Volumes. Large New Type. Just Ready. 

Vol. I. Scalp — Face — Orbit — Neck — Thorax — Upper Extremity. 

81.50 

Vol. II. Abdomen — Perineum — Lower Extremity — Brain — Eye — 

Ear — Mammary Gland — Scrotum — Testes. { r -50 

HOLDEN. Human Osteology. Comprising a Description of the 
Bones, with Colored Delineations of the Attachments of the Muscles. 
The General and Microscopical Structure of Bone and its Develop- 
ment. With Lithographic Plates and numerous Illus. 8th Ed. $5.25 

HOLDEN. Landmarks. Medical and Surgical. 4th Ed. .75 

HUGHES AND KEITH. Dissections. In three Parts : I, Upper 
and Lower Extremity ; II, Abdomen, Pelvis; III, Perineum, 
Thorax. With Colored and other Illustrations. In Press. 

MACALISTER. Human Anatomy. Systematic and Topograph- 
ical. With Special Reference to the Requirements of Practical Surg- 
ery and Medicine. 816 Illustrations. Cloth, $5.00; Leather, $6.00 

MARSHALL. Physiological Diagrams. Life Size. Colored. 
Eleven Life-Size Diagrams (each seven feet by three feet seven 
inches). Designed for Demonstration before the Class. 

In Sheets, Unmounted, {40.00; Backed with Muslin and Mounted 
on Rollers, {60.00; Ditto, Spring Rollers, in Handsome Walnut Wall 
Map Case, {100.00; Single Plates — Sheets, {5.00; Mounted, {7.50. 
Explanatory Key, .50. Purchaser must pay freight charges. 

POTTER. Compend of Anatomy, Including Visceral Anatomy. 
6th Ed. 16 Lith. Plates and 117 other Illus. .80 ; Interleaved, {1.00 

WILSON. Anatomy, nth Edition. 429 Illus., 26 Plates. {5.00 

WINDLE. Surface Anatomy. Colored and other Illus. {1.00 



SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 



BRAIN AND INSANITY (see also 
Nervous Diseases). 

BLACKBURN. A Manual of Autopsies. Designed for the Use 
of Hospitals for the Insane and other Public Institutions. Ten full- 
page Plates and other Illustrations. $1.25 

DERCUM. Mental Therapeutics, Rest, etc. Nearly Ready- 

GORDINIER. The Gross and Minute Anatomy of the Central 
Nervous System. With full-page and other Illustrations. $6.00 

HORSLEY. The Brain and Spinal Cord. The Structure and 
Functions of. Numerous Illustrations. > 2 -5° 

IRELAND. The Mental Affections of Children. 2d Ed. $400 

LEWIS (BEVAN). Mental Diseases. A Text Book Having 
Special Reference to the Pathological Aspects of Insanity. 26 Litho- 
graphic Plates and other Illustrations. 2d Ed. Just Ready. $7.00 

MANN. Manual of Psychological Medicine and Allied 
Nervous Diseases. $3-oo 

PERSHING. Diagnosis of Nervous and Mental Disease. 
Illustrated. In Press. 

REGIS. Mental Medicine. Authorized Translation by H. M. 

SHUTTLEWORTH. Mentally Deficient Children. $i.<,° 

STEARNS. Mental Diseases. With a Digest of Laws Relating 
to Care of Insane. Illustrated. Cloth, $2.75 ; Sheep, $3.25 

TUKE. Dictionary of Psychological Medicine. Giving the 
Definition, Etymology, and Symptoms of the Terms used in Medical 
Psychology, with the Symptoms, Pathology, and Treatment of the 
Recognized Forms of Mental Disorders. Two volumes. $10.00 

WOOD, H. C. Brain and Overwork. .40 

CHEMISTRY AND TECHNOLOGY. 

Special Catalogue of Chemical Books sent free upon application. 

ALLEN. Commercial Organic Analysis. A Treatise on the 
Modes of Assaying the Various Organic Chemicals and Products 
Employed in the Arts, Manufactures, Medicine, etc., with concise 
methods for the Detection of Impurities, Adulterations, etc. 8vo. 
Vol. 1. Alcohols, Neutral Alcoholic Derivatives, etc., Ethers, Veg- 
etable Acids, Starch, Sugars, etc. 3d Edition, by Henry Lbfp- 

MANN, M. D. $4.50 

Vol. II, Part I. Fixed Oils and Fats, Glycerol, Explosives, etc. 
3d Edition, by Hbnry Leffmann, m. n. $3-5o 

Vol. II, Part II. Hydrocarbons, Mineral Oils. Lubricants, Bmzenes, 
Naphthalenes and Derivatives, Creosote, Phenols, etc. 3d Edition, 
by Henry Lhfpmann, m.i>. $3-50 

Vol. II, Part III. Terpenes, Essential Oils, Resins, Camphors, etc. 
3d Edition, by Hbnry Lbffmann, m.d. Preparing. 

Vol. Ill, Part I. Tannins, Dyes and Coloring Matters. 3d Edition. 
Enlarged and Rewritten by J. Mbrritt Matthbws, PH.D., of the 
Philadelphia Textile School. Illustrated. $4 1° 

Vol. Ill, Part II. The Amines, Hydrazines and Derivatives, 
Pyridine Bases. The Antipyretics, etc. Vegetable Alkaloids, Tea, 
Coffee, Cocoa, etc. 8vo. 2d Edition. <4 50 

Vol. Ill, Part III. Vegetable Alkaloids, Non-Basic Vegetable Bitter 
Principles. Animal Bases, Animal Acids, Cyanogen Compounds, 
etc. 2d Edition, 8vo. $4-5° 

Vol. IV. The Proteids and Albuminous Principles. 2d Ed. $4.50 
ALLEN. Albuminous and Diabetic Urine. Illustrated. (2.25 



MEDICAL BOOKS. 



BARTLEY. Medical and Pharmaceutical Chemistry. A 
Text-Book for Medical, Dental, and Pharmaceutical Students. With 
Illustrations, Glossary, and Complete Index. 5th Edition. #3.00 

BARTLEY. Clinical Chemistry. The Examination of Feces, 
Saliva, Gastric Juice, Milk, and Urine. $1.00 

BLOXAM. Chemistry, Inorganic and Organic. With Experi- 
ments. 8th Ed., Revised. 281 Engravings. Clo.,14.25; Lea., $5.35 

CALDWELL. Elements of Qualitative and Quantitative 
Chemical Analysis. 3d Edition, Revised. $1.00 

CAMERON. Oils and Varnishes. With Illustrations. $2.25 

CAMERON. Soap and Candles. 54 Illustrations. $2.00 

CLOWES AND COLEMAN. Quantitative Analysis. 5th 
Edition. 122 Illustrations. $3-5° 

COBLENT2. Volumetric Analysis. IlluUrated. In Press. 

CONGDON. Laboratory Instructions in Chemistry. With 
Numerous Tables and 56 Illustrations. Just Ready. $1.00 

GARDNER. The Brewer, Distiller, and Wine Manufac- 
turer. Illustrated. $1.50 

GRAY. Physics. Volume I. Dynamics and Properties of Matter. 
350 Illustrations. Just Ready. $4-5° 

GROVES AND THORP. Chemical Technology. The Appli- 
cation of Chemistry to the Arts and Manufactures. 
Vol. I. Fuel and Its Applications. 607 Illustrations and 4 Plates. 

Cloth, $5.00 ; }4 Mor., $6.50 
Vol.11. Lighting. Illustrated. Cloth, $4.00; J£ Mor., $5.50 

Vol. III. Gas Lighting. Cloth, $3.50 ; J£ Mor., £4.50 

Vol. IV. Electric Lighting. Photometry. In Press. 

HOLLAND. The Urine, the Gastric Contents, the Common 
Poisons, and the Milk. Memoranda, Chemical and Microscopi- 
cal, for Laboratory Use. 6th Ed. Illustrated and interleaved, $1.00 

LEFFMANN. Compend of Medical Chemistry, Inorganic 
and Organic. 4th Edition, Revised. .80; Interleaved, $1. 00 

LEFFMANN. Analysis of Milk and Milk Products. 2d 
Edition, Enlarged. Illustrated. $1.25 

LEFFMANN. Water Analysis. For Sanitary and Technic Pur- 
poses. Illustrated. 4th Edition. (1.25 

LEFFMANN. Structural Formulae. Including 180 Structural 
and Stereo-Chemical Formulae. i2mo. Interleaved. $1.00 

LEFFMANN AND BEAM. Select Methods in Food Analy- 
sis. Illustrated Just Ready. $2 50 

MUTER. Practical and Analytical Chemistry. 2d American 
from the Eighth English Edition. Revised to meet the requirements 
of American Students. 56 Illustrations. $1.25 

OETTEL. Exercises in Electro-Chemistry. Illustrated. .75 

OETTEL. Electro-Chemical Experiments. Illustrated. .75 

RICHTER. Inorganic Chemistry. 5th American from 10th Ger- 
man Edition. Authorized translation by Edgar F. Smith, m.a., 
ph.d. 89 Illustrations and a Colored Plate. t 1 -7S 

RICHTER. Organic Chemistry. 3d American Edition. Trans, 
from the 8th German by Edgar F. Smith. Illustrated. 2 Volumes. 
Vol. I. Aliphatic Series. 62^ Pages. fe.oo 

Vol. II. Carbocyclic Series. 671 Pages. $3-oo 

SMITH. Electro-Chemical Analysis. 2d Ed. 28 IUus. $1.25 

SMITH AND KELLER. Experiments. Arranged for Students 
in General Chemistry. 4th Edition. Illustrated. .60 



SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 



SUTTON. Volumetric Analysis. A Systematic Handbook for 
the Quantitative Estimation of Chemical Substances by Measure, 
Applied to Liquids, Solids, and Gases. 8th Edition, Revised. 112 
Illustrations. $5.00 

SYMONDS. Manual of Chemistry, for Medical Students, 
ad Edition. £2.00 

TRAUBE. Physico-Chemical Methods. Translated by Hardin. 
97 Illustrations. £1.50 

THRESH. Water and Water Supplies. 2d Edition. $2.00 

ULZER AND FRAENKEL. Chemical Technical Analysis. 
Translated by Fleck. Illustrated. $1.25 

WOODY. Essentials of Chemistry and Urinalysis. 4th 

Edition. Illustrated. $150 

\* Special Catalogue 0/ Books on Chemistry free upon application. 

CHILDREN. 

CAUTLEY. Feeding of Infants and Young Children by Nat- 
ural and Artificial Methods. I2.00 
HALE. On the Management of Children. .50 

HATFIELD. Compend of Diseases of Children. With a 
Colored Plate. 2d Edition. .80; Interleaved. £1.00 

IRELAND. The Mental Affections of Children. 2d Ed. $4.00 

MEIGS. Infant Feeding and Milk Analysis. The Examination 
of Human and Cow's Milk, Cream, Condensed Milk, etc., and 
Directions as to the Diet of Young Infants. .50 

POWER. Surgical Diseases of Children and their Treat- 
ment by Modern Methods. Illustrated. £2.50 

SHUTTLEWORTH. Mentally Deficient Children. New 
Edition. >'-5° 

STARR. The Digestive Organs in Childhood. The Diseases of 
the Digestive Organs in Infancy and Childhood. With Chapters on 
the Investigation of Disease and the Management of Children. 3d 
Edition, Rewritten and Enlarged. Illustrated by two Colored Plates 
and numerous Wood Engravings. In Preparation. 

STARR. Hygiene of the Nursery. Including the General Regi- 
men and Feeding of Infants and Children, and the Domestic Manage- 
ment of the Ordinary Emergencies of Early Life, Massage, etc. 6th 
Edition. 25 Illustrations. $1.00 

SMITH. Wasting Diseases of Children. 6th Edition. $2.00 

TAYLOR AND WELLS. The Diseases of Children. 2d Edi- 
tion, Revised and Enlarged. Illustrated. Svo. Just Ready. $4.50 

CLINICAL CHARTS. 

GRIFFITH. Graphic Clinical Chart for Recording Temper- 
ature, Respiration, Pulse, Day of Disease, Date, Age, Sex, 
Occupation, Name, etc. Printed in three colors. Sample copies 
free. Put up in loose packages of fifty, .50. Price to Hospitals, 500 
copies, I4.00 ; 1000 copies, $7.50. With name of Hospital printed 
on, .50 extra. 



MEDICAL BOOKS. 



KEEN'S CLINICAL CHARTS. Seven Outline Drawings of the 
Body, on which may be marked the Course of Disease, Fractures, 
Operations, etc. Pads of fifty, Ji.oo. Each Drawing may also be 
had separately, twenty-five to pad, 25 cents. 

SCH REINER. Diet Lists. Arranged in the form of a chart. 
With Pamphlets of Specimen Dietaries. Pads of 50. .75 



DENTISTRY. 

Special Catalogue of Dental Books sent free upon application. 

BARRETT. Dental Surgery for General Practitioners and 
Students of Medicine and Dentistry. Extraction of Teeth, 
etc. 3d Edition. Illustrated. Nearly Ready. 

BROOMELL. Anatomy and Histology of the Human Mouth 
and Teeth. 284 Handsome Illustrations. ?4-5° 

FILLEBROWN. A Text-Book of Operative Dentistry. 

Written by invitation of the National Association of Dental Facul- 
ties. Illustrated. $2.25 
QORGAS. Dental Medicine. A Manual of Materia Medica and 
Therapeutics. 7th Edition, Revised. Cloth, $4.00; Sheep, $5.00 

GORGAS. Questions and Answers for the Dental Student. 
Embracing all the subjects in the Curriculum of the Dental Student. 
Octavo. Just Ready. $6.00 

HARRIS. Principles and Practice of Dentistry. Including 
Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, Therapeutics, Dental Surgery, 
and Mechanism. 13th Edition. Revised by F. J. S. Gorgas, m.d., 
d.d.s. 1250 Illustrations. Cloth, J6.00; Leather, $7.00 

HARRIS. Dictionary of Dentistry. Including Definitions of Such 
Words and Phrases of the Collateral Sciences as Pertain to the Art and 
Practice of Dentistry. 6th Edition. Revised and Enlarged by Fer- 
dinand F. S. Gorgas, m.d., d.d.s. Cloth, J5.00; Leather, $6. 00 

HEATH. Injuries and Diseases of the Jaws. 4th Edition. 187 
Illustrations. $4.50 

RICHARDSON. Mechanical Dentistry. 7th Edition. Thor- 
oughly Revised and Enlarged by Dr. Geo. W. Warren. 691 Illus- 
trations. Cloth, $5.00; Leather, $6.oo 

SMITH. Dental Metallurgy. Illustrated. $1.75 

TAFT. Index of Dental Periodical Literature. £2. 00 

'TOMES. Dental Anatomy. Human and Comparative. 263 Illus- 
trations. 5th Edition. J4.00 
TOMES. Dental Surgery. 4th Edition. 289 Illustrations. $4.00 

WARREN. Compend of Dental Pathology and Dental Medi- 
cine. With a Chapter on Emergencies. 3d Edition. Illustrated. 

.80; Interleaved, $1.25 

WARREN. Dental Prosthesis and Metallurgy. 129 Ills. $1.25 
WHITE. The Mouth and Teeth. Illustrated. .40 



SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 



DICTIONARIES. 

GOULD. The Illustrated Dictionary of Medicine, Biology, 
and Allied Sciences. Being an Exhaustive Lexicon of Medicine 
and those Sciences Collateral to it: Biology (Zoology and Botany), 
Chemistry, Dentistry, Parmacology, Microscopy, etc., with many 
useful Tables and numerous fine Illustrations. 1633 pages. 5th Ed. 
Sheep or Half Dark Green Leather, $10.00; Thumb Index, $11.00 
Half Russia, Thumb Index, $12.00 

GOULD. The Medical Student's Dictionary, nth Edition. 
Illustrated. Including all the Words and Phrases Generally Used 
inMedicine, with their Proper Pronunciation and Definition, Based 
on Recent Medical Literature. With a new Table of Eponymic 
Terms and Tests and Tables of the Bacilli, Micrococci, Mineral 
Springs, etc., of the Arteries, Muscles, Nerves, Ganglia, Plexuses, etc. 
nth Edition. Enlarged by over 100 pages and illustrated with a 
large number of engravings. 840 pages. 

Half Green Morocco, $3.50; Thumb Index, $3 00 

GOULD. The Pocket Pronouncing Medical Lexicon. 4th Edi- 
tion. (30,000 Medical Words Pronounced and Defined.) Containing 
all the Words, their Definition and Pronunciation, that the Medical, 
Dental, or Pharmaceutical Student Generally Comes in Contact 
With ; also Elaborate Tables of Eponymic Terms. Arteries, Muscles, 
Nerves, Bacilli, etc., etc., a Dose List in both English and Metric 
Systems, etc. Arranged in a Most Convenient Form for Reference and 
Memorizing. A new (Fourth) Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 
838 pages. 

Full Limp Leather, Gilt Edges, $1.00; Thumb Index, $1.25 
i30,ooo Copies of Gould's Dictionaries Have Been Sold. 

GOULD AND PYLE. Cyclopedia of Practical Medicine and 
Surgery. Seventy-two Special Contributors. Illustrated. 
One Volume. A Concise Reference Handbook, Alphabetically 
Arranged, of Medicine, Surgery, Obstetrics, Materia Medica, 
Therapeutic s. and the Various Specialties, with Particular Reference 
to Diagnosis and Treatment. Compiled under the Editorial Super- 
vision of George M. Gould, m.d., Author of " An Illustrated 
Dictionary of Medicine " • Editor " Philadelphia Medical Journal," 
etc.; and Walter L. Pyle. m.d., Assistant Surgeon Wills Eye 
Hospital ; formerly Editor " International Medical Magazine," etc., 
and Seventy-two Special Contributors. With many Illustrations. 
Large Square 8vo, to correspond with Gould's " Illustrated Dic- 
tionary." Just Ready. Full Sheep or Half Dark-Green Leather, $10.00 
With Thumb Index, $11.00; Half Russia, Thumb Index, $13.00 net. 
*»* Sample Pages and Illustrations and Descriptive Circulars of 

Gould's Dictionaries and Cyclopedia sent free upon application. 

HARRIS. Dictionary of Dentistry. Including Definitions of Such 
Words and Phrases of the Collateral Sciences as Pertain to the Art 
and Practice of Dentistry. 6th Edition. Revised and Enlarged by 
Ferdinand J. S. Gorgas, m.d., d.d.s. Cloth, $5.00; Leather, $6 00 

LONGLEY. Pocket Medical Dictionary. With an Appendix, 
containing Poisons and their Antidotes, Abbreviations used in Pre- 
scriptions, etc. Cloth, .75; Tucks and Pocket, $1.00 

MAXWELL. Terminologia Medica Polyglotta. By Dr. 
Theodore Maxwell, Assisted by Others. $3-00 

The object of this work is to assist the medical men ot any nationality 

In reading medical literature written in a language not their own. 

Each term is usually given in seven languages, viz. : English, French, 

German, Italian, Spanish, Russian, and Latin. 

TREVES AND LANG. German-English Medical Dictionary . 

Half Russia, $3.23 



MEDICAL BOOKS. 



EAR (see also Throat and Nose). 

BURNETT. Hearing and How to Keep It. Illustrated. .40 

DALBY. Diseases and Injuries of the Ear. 4th Edition. 38 
Wood Engravings and 8 Colored Plates. $2.50 

HOVELL. Diseases of the Ear and Naso-Pharynx. Includ- 
ing Anatomy and Physiology of the Organ, together with the Treat- 
ment of the Affections of the Nose and Pharynx which Conduce to 
Aural-Disease. 128 Illustrations. 2d Edition. Just Ready. $5.50 

PRITCHARD. Diseases of the Ear. 3d Edition, Enlarged. 
Many Illustrations and Formula;. $1.50 

WOAKES. Deafness, Giddiness, and Noises in the Head. 
4th Edition. Illustrated. $2.00 

ELECTRICITY. 

BIGELOW. Plain Talks on Medical Electricity and Bat- 
teries. With a Therapeutic Index and a Glossary. 43 Illustra- 
tions. 2d Edition. $1.00 

HEDLEY. Therapeutic Electricity and Practical Muscle 
Testing. 99 Illustrations. $2.5° 

JACOBY. Electrotherapy. 2 Volumes. Illustrated. Including 
Special Articles by Special Authors. fust Ready. 

JONES. Medical Electricity. 3d Edition. 117 IUus. $3 00 

EYE. 

A Special Circular of Books on the Eye sent free upon application. 

DONDERS. The Nature and Consequences of Anomalies of 
Refraction. With Portrait and Illustrations. Half Morocco, $1. 25 

FICK. Diseases of the Eye and Ophthalmoscopy. Trans- 
lated by A. B. Hale, m. d. 157 Illustrations, many of which are in 
colors, and a glossary. Cloth, $4.50; Sheep, J5.50 

GOULD AND PYLE. Compend of Diseases of the Eye and 
Refraction. Including Treatment and Operations, and a Section 
on Local Therapeutics. With Formulae, Useful Tables, a Glossary, 
and in Illus., several of which are in colors. 2d Edition, Revised. 

Cloth, .80 ; Interleaved, J1.00 

GOWERS. Medical Ophthalmoscopy. A Manual and Atlas 
with Colored Autotype and Lithograpnic Plates and Wood-cuts, 
Comprising Original Illustrations of the Changes of the Eye in Dis- 
eases of the Brain, Kidney, etc. 3d Edition. $4.00 

HARLAN. Eyesight, and How to Care for It. Illus. .40 

HARTRIDGE. Refraction. 104 Illustrations and Test Types. 
10th Edition, Enlarged. Ji-S° 

HARTRIDGE. On the Ophthalmoscope. 3d Edition. With 
4 Colored Plates and 68 Wood-cuts. $1.50 

HANSELL AND REBER. Muscular Anomalies of the Eye. 
Illustrated. $1.50 

HANSELL AND BELL. Clinical Ophthalmology. Colored 
Plate of Normal Fundus and 120 Illustrations. t 1 ^ 

JESSOP. Manual of Ophthalmic Surgery and Medicine. Col- 
ored Plates and 108 other Illustrations. Cloth, J3.00 



10 SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 

MORTON. Refraction of the Eye. Its Diagnosis and the Cor- 
rection of its Errors. 6th Edition. £1.00 

OHLEMANN. Ocular Therapeutics. Authorized Translation, 
and Edited by Dr. Charles A. Oliver. $'75 

PHILLIPS. Spectacles and Eyeglasses. Their Prescription 
and Adjustment ad Edition. 49 Illustrations. $ 1.00 

SWANZY. Diseases of the Eye and Their Treatmeat. 7th 

Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 164 Illustrations, 1 Plain Plate, 
and a Zephyr Test Card. $2 .50 

THORINGTON. Retinoscopy. 4th Edition. Carefully Revised. 
Illustrated. Just Ready. $1.00 

THORINGTON. Refraction and How to Refract. 200 Illustra- 
tions, 13 of which are Colored. 2d Edition. $1.50 

WALKER. Students' Aid in Ophthalmology. Colored Plate 
and 40 other Illustrations and Glossary. $'-5° 

WRIGHT. Ophthalmology. 2d Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 
117 Illustrations and a Glossary. Just Ready. $300 



FEVERS. 

GOODALL AND WASHBOURN. Fevers and Their Treat- 
ment. Illustrated. $3-°° 

GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 

DUCKWORTH. A Treatise on Gout. With Chromo-lithographs 
and Engravings. Cloth, £6.00 

HAIG. Causation of Disease by Uric Acid. A Contribution to 
the Pathology of High Arterial Tension. Headache, Epilepsy, Gout, 
Rheumatism, Diabetes, etc. 5th Edition. Just Ready. $3 00 

HEART. 

THORNE. The Schott Methods of the Treatment of Chronic 
Heart Disease. Third Edition. Illustrated. $1 75 

HISTOLOGY. 

CUSHING. Compend of Histology. Illustrated. 

AFeariy Ready. .80; Interleaved, £i.co 

STIRLING. Outlines of Practical Histology. 368 Illustrations. 
2d Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With new Illustrations. J2.00 

STOHR. Histology and Microscopical Anatomy. Edited by 
A. Schapbr, M.D., University of Breslau, formerly Demonstrator ot 
Histolcgy, Harvard Medical School. Third American from 8th Ger- 
man Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 301 Ulus. Just Ready. $3.00 



MEDICAL BOOKS 



HYGIENE AND WATER ANALYSIS. 

Special Catalogue of Books on Hygiene sent free upon application. 

CANFIELD. Hygiene of the Sick-Room. A Book for Nurses 
and Others. Being a Brief Consideration of Asepsis, Antisepsis, Dis- 
infection, Bacteriology, Immunity, Heating, Ventilation, etc. $1.25 

COPLIN. Practical Hygiene. A Complete American Text- Book. 
138 Illustrations. New Edition. Preparing . 

ERNST AND ABRAMS. Prophylaxis and Personal Hygiene. 

In Press. 

HARTSHORNE. Our Homes. Illustrated. .40 

KENWOOD. Public Health Laboratory Work. 116 Illustra- 
tions and 3 Plates. $2.00 

LEFFMANN. Examination of Water for Sanitary and 
Technical Purposes. 4th Edition. Illustrated. $1.25 

LEFPMANN. Analysis of Milk and Milk Products. Illus- 
trated. Second Edition. ft .25 

LINCOLN. School and Industrial Hygiene. .40 

McNEILL. The Prevention of Epidemics and the Construc- 
tion and Management of Isolation Hospitals. Numerous Plans 
and Illustrations. $3. 50 

NOTTER. The Theory and Practice of Hygiene. 15 Plates 
and 138 other Illustrations. 8vo. 2d Edition. $7-oo 

PARKES. Hygiene and Public Health. By Louis C. Parkes, 
M.D. 6th Edition. Enlarged. Illustrated. Just Ready. $3.00 

PARKES. Popular Hygiene. The Elements of Health. A Book 
for Lay Readers. Illustrated. $1 .25 

STARR. The Hygiene of the Nursery. Including the General 
Regimen and Feeding of Infants and Children, and the Domestic 
Management of the Ordinary Emergencies of Early Life, Massage, 
etc. 6th Edition. 25 Illustrations. $1.00 

STEVENSON AND MURPHY. A Treatise on Hygiene. By 
Various Authors. In Three Octave Volumes. Illustrated. 

Vol. I, $6.00; Vol. II, $6.00; Vol. Ill, $5.00 
* # * Each Volume sold separately. Special Circular upon application. 

THRESH. Water and Water Supplies. 2d Edition. $2.00 

WILSON. Hand-Book of Hygiene and Sanitary Science. 
With Illustrations. 8th Edition. $300 

WEYL. Sanitary Relations of the Coal-Tar Colors. Author- 
ized Translation by Henry LEFPMANN, M.D. , PH.D. $1-25 



LUNGS AND PLEURiE. 

HARRIS AND BEALE. Treatment of Pulmonary Consump- 
tion. $2 .50 

KNOPF. Pulmonary Tuberculosis. Its Modern Prophylaxis 
and Treatment in Special Inst'tutions and at Home. Illus. $3 00 

STEEL. Physical Signs of Pulmonary Disease. Illus. $1.2$ 



12 SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 

MASSAGE— PHYSICAL EXERCISE. 

KLEEN. Hand-Book of Massage. Authorized translation by 
Mussky Hartwhli., m.d., ph.d. With an Introduction by Dr. S. 
Weir Mitchell. Illustrated by a series of Photographs Made 
Especially by Dr. Klbbn for the American Edition. $2.25 

OSTROM. Massage and the Original Swedish Move- 
ments. Their Application to Various Diseases of the Body. A 
Manual for Students, Nurses, and Physicians. Fourth Edition, En- 
larged. 105 Illustrations, many of which are original. $1.00 

MITCHELL AND GULICK. Mechanotherapy. Illus. In Press. 

TREVES. Physical Education. Methods, etc. .75 

WARD. Notes on Massage. Interleaved. Paper cover, $1 .00 

MATERIA MEDICA AND THERA- 
PEUTICS. 

BIDDLE. Materia Medica and Therapeutics. Including Dose 
List, Dietary for the Sick, Table of Parasites, and Memoranda ot 
New Remedies. 13th Edition, Revised. 64 Illustrations and a 
Clinical Index. Cloth, $4.00; Sheep, $5.00 

BRACKEN. Outlines of Materia Medica and Pharmacology. £2.75 

COBLENTZ. The Newer Remedies. Including their Synonyms, 
Sources, Methods of Preparation, Tests, Solubilities, Doses, etc. 
3d Edition, Enlarged and Revised. $ 1.00 

COHEN. Physiologic Therapeutics. Mechanotherapy, Mental 

Therapeutics, Electrotherapy. Climatology, Hydrotherapy, Pneu- 

matotherapy, Prophylaxis, Dietetics, etc. 11 Volumes, Octavo. 

Illustrated. Price for the set, $22.00 

Special Descriptive Circular will be sent upon application. 

DAVIS. Materia Medica and Prescription Writing. $1.50 

GOROAS. Dental Medicine. A Manual of Materia Medica and 
Therapeutics. 7th Edition, Revised. $4.00 

GROFF. Materia Medica for Nurses, with questions for Self Exam- 
ination and a complete Glossary. >i-»5 

HELLER. Essentials of Materia Medica, Pharmacy, and 
Prescription Writing. t'-5° 

MAYS. Theine in the Treatment of Neuralgia. % bound, .50 

POTTER. Hand-Book of Materia Medica, Pharmacy, and 
Therapeutics, including the Action of Medicines, Special Therapeu- 
tics, Pharmacology, etc., including over 600 Prescriptions and For- 
mula:. 8th Edition. Revised and Enlarged. With Thumb Index in 
each copy. Just Ready. Cloth, J5.00; Sheep, $6x0 

POTTER. Comnend of Materia Medica, Therapeutics, and 
Prescription Writing, with Special Reference to the Physiologi- 
cal Action of Drugs. 6th Edition. .80: Interleaved, $1.00 

MURRAY. Rough Notes on Remedies. 4th Edition. #125 



MEDICAL BOOKS. 13 



SAYRE. Organic Materia Medica and Pharmacognosy. An 
Introduction to the Study of the Vegetable Kingdom and the Vege- 
table and Animal Drugs. Comprising the Botanical and Physical 
Characteristics, Source, Constituents, and Pharmacopeial Prepara- 
tions, Insects Injurious to Drugs, and Pharmacal Botany. With 
sections on Histology and Microtechnique, by W. C. Stevens. 
374 Illustrations, many of which are original. 2d Edition. 

Cloth, $4.50 

WHITE AND WILCOX. Materia Medica, Pharmacy, Phar- 
macology, and Therapeutics. 4th American Edition, Revised by 
Reynold W. Wilcox, m.a., m.d., ll.d., Professor of Clinical 
Medicine and Therapeutics at the New York Post-Graduate Medical 
School. Cloth, $3.00; Leather, $3.50 

" The care with which Dr. Wilcox has performed his work is con- 
spicuous on every page, and it is evident that no recent drug possess- 
ing any merit has escaped his eye. We believe, on the whole, this is 
the best book on Materia Medica and Therapeutics to place in the 
hands of students, and the practitioner will find it a most satisfactory 
work for daily use." — The Cleveland Medical Gazette. 



MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND 
TOXICOLOGY. 

REESE. Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology. A Text-Book 
for Medical and Legal Practitioners and Students. 5th Edition. 
Revised by Hbnrt Leffmann, m.d. Clo.,$3.oo; Leather, I3.50 

" To the student of medical jurisprudence and toxicology it is in- 
valuable, as it is concise, clear, and thorough in every respect." — The 
American Journal of the Medical Sciences. 

MANN. Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. Illus. $6.50 

TANNER. Memoranda of Poisons. Their Antidotes and Tests. 
8th Edition, by Dr Henry Lbffmann. Just Ready. .75 



MICROSCOPY. 

CARPENTER. The Microscope and Its Revelations. 8th 
Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Over 800 Illustrations and many 
Lithographs. Just Ready. 

LEE. The Microtomist's Vade Mecum. A Hand-Book of 
Methods of Microscopical Anatomy. 887 Articles. 5th Edition, 
Enlarged. $4.00 

REEVES. Medical Microscopy, including Chapters on Bacteri- 
ology, Neoplasms, Urinary Examination, etc. Numerous Illus- 
trations, some oi which are printed in colors. £2.50 

WETHERED. Medical Microscopy. A Guide to the Use of the 
Microscope in Practical Medicine. 100 Illustrations. $2.00 



14 SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

BERRY. Diseases of Thyroid Gland. Illustrated. In Press. 
BURNETT. Poods and Dietaries. A Manual of Clinical Diet- 
etics, ad Edition. |i-5o 
BUXTON. Anesthetics. Illustrated. 3d Edition. $1.50 
COHEN. Organotherapy. In Press. 
DAVIS. Dietotherapy. Food in Health and Disease. In Press. 
FEN WICK. Ulcer of the Stomach. 42 Illustrations. $3.50 
GOULD. Borderland Studies. Miscellaneous Addresses and 
Essays, nmo. $2.00 
GREENE. Medical Examination for Life Insurance. Illus- 
trated. $4.00 
HAIG. Causation of Disease by Uric Acid. The Pathology of 
High Arterial Tension, Headache, Epilepsy, Gout, Rheumatism, 
Diabetes, Bnght's Disease, etc. 5th Edition. $3-Oo 
HAIG. Diet and Food. Considered in Relation to Strength and 
Power of Endurance. 3d Edition. Just Ready. $1.00 
HEMMETER. Diseases of the Stomach. Their Special Path- 
ology, Diagnosis, and Treatment. With Sections on Anatomy, Diet- 
etics, Surgery, etc. 2d Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Illustrated. 

Cloth, $6.00; Sheep, $7.00 
HEMMETER. Diseases of the Intestines. Illustrated. 2 Vol- 
umes. 8vo. Nearly Ready. 
HENRY. A Practical Treatise on Anemia. Hall Cloth, .50 
LEFFMANN. Food Analysis. Illustrated. Just Ready. $2.50 
NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY'S PUBLICATIONS. Circulars 
upon application. Per Annum, £8. 00 
OSGOOD. The Winter and Its Dangers. .40 
OSLER AND McCRAE. Cancer of the Stomach. $2.00 
PACKARD. Sea Air and Sea Bathing. .40 
RICHARDSON. Long Life and How to Reach It. .40 
ST. CLAIR. Medical Latin. $1.00 
TISSIER. Pneumatotherapy. In Press. 
TURNBULL. Artificial Anesthesia. 4 th Edition. Illus. $2.50 
WEBER AND HINSDALE. Climatology. Just Ready. 
WILSON. The Summer and Its Diseases. .40 
WINTERNITZ. Hydrotherapy. Illustrated. In Press. 



NERVOUS DISEASES. 

BEEVOR. Diseases of the Nervous System and their Treat- 
ment. $2.50 

DERCUM. Rest, Hypmotism, Mental Therapeutics. InPress. 

GORDINIER. The Gross and Minute Anatomy of the Cen- 
tral Nervous System. With 271 original Colored and other 
Illustrations. Cloth, $6 00; Sheep, $7.00 

GOWERS. Manual of Diseases of the Nervous System. A 
Complete Text-Book. Revised, Enlarged, and in many parts Re- 
written. With many new Illustrations. Two volumes. 
Vol. I. Diseases of the Nerves and Spinal Cord. 3d Edition, En- 
larged. Cloth, $4.00; Sheep, $5. 00 
Vol. II. Diseases of the Brain and Cranial Nerves; General and 
Functional Disease. 2d Edition. Cloth, $4.00; Sheep, $5.00 

GOWERS. Syphilis and the Nervous System. |i.oo 



MEDICAL BOOKS. 16 



GOWERS. Clinical Lectures. A New Volume of Essays on the 
Diagnosis, Treatment, etc., of Diseases of the Nervous System. $2.00 

GOWERS. Epilepsy and Other Chronic Convulsive Diseases. 
2d Edition. In Press. 

HORSLEY. The Brain and Spinal Cord. The Structure and 
Functions of. Numerous Illustrations. $2.50 

ORMEROD. Diseases oi the Nervous System. 66 Wood En- 
gravings. $1.00 

OSLER. Chorea and Choreiform Affections. $2.00 

PERSHING. Diagnosis of Nervous and Mental Diseases. 

Illustrated. In Press. 

PRESTON. Hysteria and Certain Allied Conditions. Their 

Nature and Treatment. Illustrated. $2.00 

WOOD. Brain Work and Overwork. .40 

NURSING (see also Massage). 

Special Catalogue of Books for Nurses sent free upon application. 

CANPIELD. Hygiene of the Sick-Room. A Book for Nurses and 
Others. Being a Briet Consideration oi Asepsis, Antisepsis, Disinfec- 
tion, Bacteriology, Immunity, Heating and Ventilation, and Kindred 
Subjects for the Use of Nurses and Other Intelligent Women. $1.25 

CUFP. Lectures to Nurses on Medicine. New Edition. $1.25 

DOMVILLE. Manual for Nurses and Others Engaged in At- 
tending the Sick. 8th Edition. With Recipes for Sick-room Cook- 
ery, etc. .75 
PULLERTON. Obstetric Nursing. 41 Ills. 5th Ed. J1.00 
FULLERTON. Surgical Nursing. 3d Ed. 69 Ills. $1.00 

GROFF. Materia Medica for Nurses. With Questions for Self-Ex- 

amination and a very complete Glossary. $1.25 

" It will undoubtedly prove a valuable aid to the nurse in securing a 

knowledge of drugs and their uses.'' — The Medical Record, New 

York. 

HUMPHREY. A Manual for Nurses. Including General 

Anatomy and Physiology, Management of the Sick Room, etc. 

17th Ed. Illustrated. $1.00 

" In the fullest sense, Dr. Humphrey's book is a distinct advance on 

all previous manuals. It is, in point of fact, a concise treatise on 

medicine and surgery for the beginner, incorporating with the text the 

management of childbed and the hygiene of the sick-room. Its value 

is greatly enhanced by copious wood-cuts and diagrams of the bones 

and internal organs." — British Medical Journal , London. 

STARR. The Hygiene of the Nursery. Including the General 
Regimen and Feeding of Infants and Children, and the Domestic Man- 
agement of the Ordinary Emergencies of Early Life, Massage, etc. 6th 
Edition. 25 Illustrations. J1.00 

TEMPERATURE AND CLINICAL CHARTS. See page 6. 

VOSWINKEL. Surgical Nursing. Second Edition, Enlarged. 
112 Illustrations. J1.00 



16 SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 

OBSTETRICS. 

CAZEAUX AND TARNIER. Midwifery. With Appendix by 
Mundb. The Theory and Practice of Obstetrics, including the Dis- 
eases oi Pregnancy and Parturition, Obstetrical Operations, etc. 
8th Edition. Illustrated by Colored and other full-page Plates, and 
numerous Wood Engravings. Cloth, $4.50 ; Full Leather, $5.50 

EDGAR. Text-Book of Obstetrics. Illustrated. Preparing. 

FULLERTON. Obstetric Nursing. 5th Ed. Illustrated. $1.00 

LANDIS. Compend of Obstetrics. 6th Edition, Revised by Wm. 
H. Wells, Assistant Demonstrator oi Clinical Obstetrics, Jefferson 
Medical College. With 47 Illustrations, .80; Interleaved, $1.00 

WINCKEL. Text-Book of Obstetrics, Including the Pathol- 
ogy and Therapeutics of the Puerperal State. Authorized 
Translation by J. Clifton Edgar, m.d. Illus. Cloth, $5.00 

PATHOLOGY. 

BARLOW. General Pathology. 795 pages. 8vo. fc.oo 

BLACK. Micro-Organisms. The Formation of Poisons. .75 

BLACKBURN. Autopsies. A Manual of Autopsies Designed for 
the Use of Hospitals for the Insane and other Public Institutions. 
Ten full-page Plates and other Illustrations. fi-*5 

CONN. Agricultural Bacteriology. Illustrated. Nearly Ready. 

COPLIN. Manual of Pathology. Including Bacteriology, Technic 
of Post-Mortems, Methods of Pathologic Research, etc. 330 Illus- 
trations, 7 Colored Plates. 3d Edition. $3-5° 

DA COSTA. Clinical Pathology of the Blood. Illus. In Press. 

HEWLETT. Manual of Bacteriology. 7s Illustrations. £3.00 

ROBERTS. Gynecological Pathology. Illus. Nearly Ready. 

THAYER. Compend of General Pathology. Illustrated. 
Nearly Ready. .80; Interleaved, ft. co 

THAYER. Compend of Special Pathology. Illustrated. 

Nearly Ready. .80; Interleaved, fi.oo 

VIRCHOW. Post-Mortem Examinations. 3d Edition. .75 

WHITACRE. Laboratory Text-Book of Pathology. With 
121 Illustrations. t l b° 

WILLIAMS. Bacteriology. A Manual for Students. 78 Illus- 
trations. 3d Edition, Revised. Just Ready. $ 1.50 

PHARMACY. 

Special Catalogue of Books on Pharmacy sent free upon application. 

COBLENTZ. Manual of Pharmacy. A Complete Text-Book 
by the Professor in the New York College of Pharmacy, ad Edition, 
Revised and Enlarged. 437 Illus. Cloth, $ 3. 50; Sheep, $4. 50 

COBLENTZ. Volumetric Analysis. Illustrated. I* Press. 

BEASLEY. Book of 3100 Prescriptions. Collected from the 
Practice of the Most Eminent Physicians and Surgeons — English, 
French, and American. A Compendious History oi the Materia 
Medica, Lists of the Doses of all the Officinal and Established Pre- 
parations, an Index of Diseases and their Remedies. 7th Ed. $ 2.00 



MEDICAL BOOKS. 



BEASLEY. Druggists' General Receipt Book. Comprising 
a Copious Veterinary Formulary, Recipes in Patent and Proprietary 
Medicines, Druggists' Nostrums, etc. ; Perfumery and Cosmetics, 
Beverages, Dietetic Articles and Condiments, Trade Chemicals, 
Scientific Processes, and many Useful Tables. 10th Ed. $2.00 

BEASLEY. Pharmaceutical Formulary. A Synopsis of the 
British, French, German, and United States Pharmacopoeias. Com- 
prising Standard and Approved Formula for the Preparations and 
Compounds Employed in Medicine. 12th Edition. $2.00 

PROCTOR. Practical Pharmacy. Lectures on Practical Phar- 
macy. 3d Edition, with Illustrations and Elaborate Tables of 
Chemical Solubilities, etc. $3 -00 

ROBINSON. Latin Grammar of Pharmacy and Medicine. 
3d Edition. With elaborate Vocabularies. J I -7S 

SAYRE. Organic Materia Medica and Pharmacognosy. An 
Introduction to the Study of the Vegetable Kingdom and the Vege- 
table and Animal Drugs. Comprising the Botanical and Physical 
Characteristics, Source, Constituents, and Pharmacopeial Prepar- 
ations, Insects Injurious to Drugs, and Parmacal Botany. With 
sections on Histology and Microtechnique, by W. C. Stbvens. 
374 Illustrations. Second Edition. Cloth, $4.50 

SCOVILLE. The Art of Compounding. Second Edition, Re- 
vised and Enlarged. Cloth, $2.50 

STEWART. Compend of Pharmacy. Based upon " Reming- 
ton's Text-Book of Pharmacy." 5th Edition, Revised in Accord- 
ance with the U. S. Pharmacopoeia, 1890. Complete Tables of 
Metric and English Weights and Measures. .80; Interleaved, $1.00 

UNITED STATES PHARMACOPOEIA. 7th Decennial Revision. 
Cloth, $2. 50 (postpaid, $2. 77) ; Sheep, $3.00 (postpaid, $3.27); Inter- 
leaved, £4.00 (postpaid. |>4.5o) ; Printed on one side of page only, 
unbound, $3.50 (postpaid, $3.90). 

Select Tables from the U. S. P. Being Nine of the Most Impor- 
tant and Useful Tables, Printed on Separate Sheets. Carefully 
put up in patent envelope. .25 

POTTER. Hand-Book of Materia Medica, Pharmacy, and 
Therapeutics. 600 Prescriptions. 8th Ed. Clo., $5.00 ; Sh., $6.00 

PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. 

BROWN. Medical Diagnosis. A Manual of Clinical Methods. 

4th Edition. 112 Illustrations. Cloth, $2.25 

DA COSTA. Clinical Examination of the Blood. Illustrated. 

In Press. 

FENWICK. Medical Diagnosis. 8th Edition. Rewritten and 

very much Enlarged. 135 Illustrations. Cloth, $2.50 

MEMMINGER. Diagnosis by the Urine. 2d Ed. 24 Illus. fti.oo 

STEEL. Physical Signs of Pulmonary Disease. $1.25 

TYSON. Hand-Book of Physical Diagnosis. For Students and 

Physicians. By the Professor of Clinical Medicine in the University 

of Pennsylvania. Illus. 3d Ed., Improved and Enlarged. With 

Colored and other Illustrations. $ 1 -5° 

PHYSIOLOGY. 

BIRCH. Practical Physiology. An Elementary Class Book. 

62 Illustrations. £i-75 

BRUBAKER. Compend of Physiology, xoth Edition, Revised 

and Enlarged. Illustrated. .80; Interleaved, $1. 00 

2 



SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 



KIRKES. Physiology. (16th Authorized Edition. Dark-Red Cloth.) 
A Hand-Book of Physiology. 16th Edition, Revised, Rearranged, 
and Enlarged. By Prof. W. D. Halliburton, of Kings College, 
London. 671 Illustrations, some of which are printed in colors. 

Cloth, $3.00; Leather, $3.75 

LANDOIS. A Text-Book of Human Physiology, Including 
Histology and Microscopical Anatomy, with Special Reference to 
the Requirements of Practical Medicine. 5th American, translated 
from the 9th German Edition, with Additions by Wk. Stirling, 
M.D..D.SC. 84s Illus., many of which are printed in colors. In Press. 

STARLING. Elements of Human Physiology. 100 Ills. $1.00 

STIRLING. Outlines of Practical Physiology. Including 
Chemical and Experimental Physiology, with Special Reference to 
Practical Medicine. 3d Edition. 289 Illustrations. $2.00 

TYSON. Cell Doctrine. Its History and Present State. $1.50 

PRACTICE. 

BEALE. On Slight Ailments; their Nature and Treatment. 
2d Edition, Enlarged and Illustrated. f, 1.25 

FAGGE. Practice of Medicine. 4th Edition, by P. H. Pyb- 
Smith, m.d. 2 Volumes. In Press. 

FOWLER. Dictionary of Practical Medicine. By various 
writers. An Encyclopaedia of Medicine. Clo.,^3.00; Half Mor. $4.00 
GOULD AND PYLE. Cyclopedia of Practical Medicine and 
Surgery. A Concise Reference Handbook, Alphabetically 
Arranged, with particular Reference to Diagnosis and Treatment. 
Edited by Drs. Gould and Pyle, Assisted by 72 Special Con- 
tributors. Illustrated, one volume. Large Square Octavo, Uniform 
with " Gould's Illustrated Dictionary." 

Sheep or Half Morocco, $10.00 : with Thumb Index, $1 1.00 
Half Russia, Thumb Index, $12 00 
49" Complete descriptive circular free upon application. 
HUGHES. Compend of the Practice of Medicine. 6th Edition, 
Revised and Enlarged. 

Part I. Continued, Eruptive, and Periodical Fevers, Diseases of the 
Stomach, Intestines, Peritoneum, Biliary Passages, Liver, Kid- 
neys, etc., and General Diseases, etc. 
Part II. Diseases of the Respiratory System, Circulatory System, 
and Nervous System; Diseases of the Blood, etc. 

Price of each part, .80; Interleaved, $1.00 
Physician's Edition. In one volume, including the above two 
parts, a Section on Skin Diseases, and an Index. 6th Revised 
Edition. 625 pp. Full Morocco, Gilt Edge, $2.25 

TAYLOR. Practice of Medicine. 5th Kdition. Cloth, $4.00 

TYSON. The Practice of Medicine. By James Tyson, m.d., 
Professor of Medicine in the University of Pennsylvania. A Com- 
plete Systematic Text-book with Special Reference to Diagnosis and 
Treatment. 2d Edition, Enlarged and Revised. Colored Plates and 
125 other Illustrations. 1222 Pages. Cloth, $5.50; Leather, $6 50 

PRESCRIPTION BOOKS. 

BEASLEY. Book of 3100 Prescriptions. Collected from the 
Practice of the Most Eminent Physicians and Surgeons — English, 
French, and American. A Compendious History of the Materia, 
Medica, Lists of the Doses of all Officinal and Established Prepara- 
tions, and an Index of Diseases and their Remedies. 7th Ed. $2.00 



MEDICAL BOOKS. 1» 



BEASLEY. Druggists' General Receipt Book. Comprising 
a Copious Veterinary Formulary, Recipes in Patent and Proprie- 
tary Medicines, Druggists' Nostrums, etc. ; Perfumery and Cos- 
metics, Beverages, Dietetic Articles and Condiments, Trade Chem- 
icals, Scientific Processes, and an Appendix of Useful Tables, 
ioth Edition, Revised. $3.00 

BEASLEY. Pocket Formulary. A Synopsis of the British, French, 
German, and United States Pharmacopoeias and the chief unofficial 
Formularies. 12th Edition. J2.00 

SKIN. 

BULKLEY. The Skin in Health and Disease. Illustrated. .40 
CROCKER. Diseases of the Skin. Their Description, Pathol- 
ogy, Diagnosis, and Treatment, with Special Reference to the Skin 
Eruptions of Children. 92 Illus. 3d Edition. Preparing. 

SCHAMBERG. Diseases of the Skin. 2d Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. 105 Illustrations. Being No. 16 ? Quiz-Compend ? Series. 

Cloth, .80; Interleaved, $1. 00 

VAN HARLINGEN. On Skin Diseases. A Practical Manual 
of Diagnosis and Treatment, with special reference to Differential 
Diagnosis. 3d Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With Formulae 
and 60 Illustrations, some of which are printed in colors. $2-75 

SURGERY AND SURGICAL DIS- 
EASES (see also Urinary Organs). 

BERRY. Diseases of the Thyroid Gland and Their Surgical 
Treatment. Illustrated. Just Ready. J4.00 

BUTLIN. Operative Surgery of Malignant Disease. 2d Edi- 
tion. Illustrated. Octavo. $4-50 

CRIPPS. Ovariotomy and Abdominal Surgery. Illus. $8.00 

DEAVER. Surgical Anatomy. A Treatise on Human Anatomy 
in its Application to Medicine and Surgery. With about 400 very 
Handsome full-page Illustrations Engraved from Original Drawings 
made by special Artists from Dissections prepared for the purpose. 
Three Volumes. Royal Square Octavo. 

Cloth, $21 .00 ; Half Morocco or Sheep, $24.00 ; Half Russia, $27.00 
Complete descriptive circular and special terms upon application. 

DEAVER. Appendicitis, Its Symptoms, Diagnosis, Pathol- 
ogy! Treatment, and Complications. Elaborately Illustrated 
with Colored Plates and other Illustrations. 2d Edition. $3. 50 

DULLES. What to Do First in Accidents and Poisoning. 
5th Edition. New Illustrations. $1.00 

FULLERTON. Surgical Nursing. 3d Edition. 69 Illus. $100 

HAMILTON. Lectures on Tumors. 3d Edition. $1-25 

HEATH. Minor Surgery and Bandaging, nth Ed., Revised 
and Enlarged. 176 Illustrations, Formulae, Diet List, etc. $1.25 

HEATH. Injuries and Diseases of the Jaws. 4th Ed. $4.50 
HORWITZ. Compend of Surgery and Bandaging, including 
Minor Surgery, Amputations, Fractures, Dislocations, Surgical Dis- 
eases, and the Latest Antiseptic Rules, etc., with Differential Diagno- 
sis and Treatment. 5th Edition, very much Enlarged and Rear- 
ranged. 167 Illustrations, 98 Formulae. Clo., .80 ; Interleaved, $1.00 



20 SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 

JACOBSON. Operations of Surgery. Over aoo Illustrations. 

Cloth, $3.00 ; Leather, $4.00 

KEHR. Gall-Stone Disease. Translated by William Wotkyns 
Seymour, m.d. Just Ready. #2.50 

LANE. Surgery of the Head and Neck, no Illus. $5-00 

MACREADY. A Treatise on Ruptures. 24 Full-page Litho- 
graphed Plates and Numerous Wood Engravings. Cloth, $6.00 

MAKINS. Surgical Experiences in South Africa. 1899-1900. 
Illustrated. Just Ready. $4.00 

MAYLARD. Surgery of the Alimentary Canal. 97 Illustrations. 
2d Edition, Revised. $300 

MOULLIN. Text-Book of Surgery. With Special Reference to 
Treatment. 3d American Edition. Revised and edited by John B. 
Hamilton, m.d., ll.d., Professor of the Principles of Surgery and 
Clinical Surgery, Rush Medical College, Chicago. 623 Illustrations, 
many of which are printed in colors. Cloth, $6.00; Leather, $7.00 

SMITH. Abdominal Surgery. Being a Systematic Description oi 
all the Principal Operations. 224 Illus. 6th Ed. 2 Vols. Clo., $10.00 

SWAIN. Surgical Emergencies. Fifth Edition. Cloth, $1.75 

VOSWINKEL. Surgical Nursing. Second Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged, in Illustrations. $1.00 

WALSHAM. Manual of Practical Surgery. 7th Ed., Re- 
vised and Enlarged. 483 Engravings. 950 pages. $350 



THROAT AND NOSE (see also Ear). 

COHEN. The Throat and Voice. Illustrated. .40 

HALL. Diseases of the Nose and Throat. 2d Edition, Enlarged. 
Two Colored Plates and 80 Illustrations. Just Ready. fa-lS 

HOLLOPETER. Hay Fever. Its Successful Treatment. $1.00 

KNIGHT. Diseases of the Throat. A Manual for Students. 
Illustrated. Nearly Ready. 

LAKE. Laryngeal Phthisis, or Consumption of the Throat. 
Colored Illustrations. Just Ready. $2 00 

MACKENZIE. Pharmacopoeia of the London Hospital for 
Dis. of the Throat. 5th Ed., Revised by Dr. F. G. Harvhy. Ji.oo 

McBRIDE. Diseases of the Throat, Nose, and Ear. With col- 
ored Illustrations from original drawings. 3d Edition. (7.00 

POTTER. Speech and its Defects. Considered Physiologically, 
Pathologically, and Remedially. $1.00 

SHEILD. Nasal Obstructions. Illustrated. Just Ready. $1.50 



URINE AND URINARY ORGANS. 

ACTON. The Functions and Disorders of the Reproductive 
Organs in Childhood, Youth, Adult Age, and Advanced Life, 
Considered in their Physiological, Social, and Moral Relations. 
8th Edition. Ji-75 



MEDICAL BOOKS 21 



BEALE. One Hundred Urinary Deposits. On eight sheets, 
for the Hospital, Laboratory, or Surgery. Paper, $2.00 

HOLLAND. The Urine, the Gastric Contents, the Common 
Poisons, and the Milk. Memoranda, Chemical and Microscopi- 
cal, for Laboratory Use. Illustrated and Interleaved. 6th Ed. $1.00 

KLEEN. Diabetes and Glycosuria. $2.50 

MEMMINGER. Diagnosis by the Urine. 2d Ed. 24 Illus. J1.00 

MORRIS. Renal Surgery, with Special Reterence to Stone in the 
Kidney and Ureter and to the Surgical Treatment of Calculous 
Anuria. Illustrated. $2.00. 

MOULLIN. Enlargement of the Prostate. Its Treatment and 
Radical Cure. 2d Edition. Illustrated. £i-75 

MOULLIN. Inflammation of the Bladder and Urinary Fever. 
Octavo. $i-5° 

SCOTT. The Urine. Its Clinical and Microscopical Examination. 
41 Lithographic Plates and other Illustrations. Quarto. Cloth, $5.00 

TYSON. Guide to Examination of the Urine. For the Use of 
Physicians and Students. With Colored Plate and Numerous Illus- 
trations engraved on wood. 9th Edition, Revised. $'-25 

VAN NUYS. Chemical Analysis of Urine. 39 Illus. $1.00 

VENEREAL DISEASES. 

COOPER. Syphilis. 2d Edition, Enlarged and Illustrated with 
20 full-page Plates. $$-°o 

GOWERS. Syphilis and the Nervous System. 1.00 

STURGIS AND CABOT. Student's Manual of Venereal 

Diseases. 7th Revised and Enlarged Ed. i2mo. Just Ready. $1.25 

VETERINARY. 

BALLOU. Veterinary Anatomy and Physiology. 29 Graphic 
Illustrations. .80; Interleaved, fx. 00 

TUSON. Veterinary Pharmacopoeia. Including the Outlines of 
Materia Medica and Therapeutics. 5th Edition. $2.25 

WOMEN, DISEASES OF. 

BISHOP. Uterine Fibromyomata. Their Pathology, Diagnosis, 
and Treatment. Illustrated. Just Ready. Cloth, $3 50 

BYFORD (H. T.). Manual of Gynecology. Second Edition, 
Revised and Enlarged by 100 pages. 341 Illustrations. #300 

DUHRSSEN. A Manual of Gynecological Practice. 105 
Illustrations. $'-50 

FULLERTON. Surgical Nursing. 3d Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. 69 Illustrations. £1.00 

LEWERS. Diseases of Women. 146 Illus. 5th Ed. $2.50 

MONTGOMERY. Practical Gynecology. A Complete Sys- 
tematic Text-Book. 527 Illustrations. Cloth, $5.00 ; Leather, $6.00 

ROBERTS. Gynecological Pathology. Illu-.trated. 

Nearly Ready. 

WELLS. Compend of Gynecology. Illustrated. 2d Edition. 

. 80 ; Interleaved, $ 1 .00 



22 SUBJECT CATALOGUE. 

COMPENDS. 



From The Southern. Clinic. 

" We know of no series of books issued by any house that so fully 
meets our approval as these T Quiz-Compends T. They are well ar- 
ranged, full, and concise, and are really the best line of text-books that 
could be found for either student or practitioner." 



BLAKISTON'S ? QUIZ-COMPENDS? 

The Best Series of Manuals for the Use of Students. 
Price of each, Cloth, .80. Interleaved, for taking Notes, $1.00. 

JUJf- These Compends are based on the most popular text-books 
and the lectures of prominent professors, and are kept constantly re- 
vised, so that they may thoroughly represent the present state of the 
subjects upon which they treat. 

4fS~ The authors have had large experience as Quiz-Masters and 
attaches of colleges, and are well acquainted with the wants of students. 

43" They are arranged in the most approved form, thorough and 
concise, containing over 6oo fine illustrations, inserted wherever they 
could be used to advantage. 

£g~ Can be used by students of any college. 

a-S" They contain information nowhere else collected in such a 
condensed, practical shape. Illustrated Circular free. 

No. x. POTTER. HUMAN ANATOMY. Sixth Revised and 
Enlarged Edition. Including Visceral Anatomy. Can be used 
with either Morris's or Gray's Anatomy. 117 Illustrations and 16 
Lithographic Plates of Nerves and Arteries, with Explanatory 
Tables, etc. By Samuel O. L. Potter, m.d., Professor of the 
Practice of Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons, San 
Francisco ; Brigade Surgeon, U. S. Vol. 

No. a. HUGHES. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Part I. Sixth 
Edition, Enlarged and Improved. By Daniel E. Hughes, m.d., 
Physician-in-Chief, Philadelphia Hospital, late Demonstrator of 
Clinical Medicine, Jefferson Medical College, Phila. 

No. 3. HUGHES. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Part II. 
Sixth Edition, Revised and Improved. Same author as No. a. 

No. 4. BRUBAKER. PHYSIOLOGY. Tenth Edition, with 
Illustrations and a table of Physiological Constants. Enlarged 
and Revised. By A P. Brubaker, m.d., Professor of Physiology 
and General Pathology in the Pennsylvania College of Dental 
Surgery ; Adjunct Professor of Physiology, Jefferson Medical 
College, Philadelphia, etc. 

No. 5. LANDIS. OBSTETRICS. Sixth Edition. By Henry G. 
Landis, m.d. Revised and Edited by Wm. H. Wells, m.d., 
Instructor of Obstetrics, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. 
Enlarged. 47 Illustrations. 

No. 6. POTTER. MATERIA MEDICA, THERAPEUTICS, 
AND PRESCRIPTION WRITING. Sixth Revised Edition 
(U. S. P. 1800). By Samuel O. L. Potter, m.d., Professor of 
Practice, College of Physicians and Surgeons, San Francisco; 
Brigade Surgeon, U. S. Vol. 



MEDICAL BOOKS. 23 



? QUIZ-COM PENDS ?— Continued. 

No. 7. WELLS. GYNECOLOGY. Second Edition. ByWM.H. 
Wells, m.d., Instructor of Obstetrics, Jefferson College, Philadel- 
phia. 140 Illustrations. 

No. 8. GOULD AND PYLE. DISEASES OF THE EYE 
AND REFRACTION. Second Edition. Including Treatment 
and Surgery, and a Section on Local Therapeutics. By George 
M. Gould, m.d., and W. L. Pylb, m.d. With Formulae, Glossary, 
Tables, and 109 Illustrations, several of which are Colored. 

No. 9. HORWITZ. SURGERY, Minor Surgery, and Bandag- 
ing. Fifth Edition, Enlarged and Improved.. By Orvillb 
Horwitz, b. s., m.d., Clinical Professor of Genito-Urinary Surgery 
and Venereal Diseases in Jefferson Medical College ; Surgeon to 
Philadelphia Hospital, etc. With 98 Formulae and 71 Illustrations. 

No. 10. LEFFMANN. MEDICAL CHEMISTRY. Fourth 

Edition. Including Urinalysis, Animal Chemistry, Chemistry of 
Milk, Blood, Tissues, the Secretions, etc. By Henry Lbffmann, 
m.d., Professor of Chemistry in the Woman's Medical College of 
Penna ; Pathological Chemist, Jefferson Medical College Hospital. 
No. 11. STEWART. PHARMACY. Fifth Edition. Based upon 
Prof. Remington's Text-Book of Pharmacy. By F. E. Stewart, 
m.d., ph. g., Tate Quiz-Master in Pharmacy and Chemistry, Phila- 
delphia College of Pharmacy ; Lecturer at Jefferson Medical 
College. Carefully revised in accordance with the new U. S. P. 

No. 12. BALLOU. VETERINARY ANATOMY AND PHY- 
SIOLOGY. Illustrated. By Wm.R. Ballou, m.d., Professor 
of Equine Anatomy at New York College of Veterinary Surgeons ; 
Physician to Bellevue Dispensary, etc. 29 graphic Illustrations 

No. 13. WARREN. DENTAL PATHOLOGY AND DEN- 
TAL MEDICINE. Third Edition, Illustrated. Containing 
a Section on Emergencies. By Gbo. W. Warren, d.d.s., Chief 
oi Clinical Staff, Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery. 

No. la. HATFIELD. DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Second 
Edition. Colored Plate. By Marcus P. Hatfield, Profes- 
sor of Diseases of Children, Chicago Medical College. 

No. 15. THAYER. GENERAL PATHOLOGY. By A. E. 
Thayer, m.d., Cornell University Medical College. Illustrated. 

No. 16. SCHAMBERG. DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Second 
Edition. By Jay F. Schambbrg, m.d., Professor of Diseases of 
the Skin, Philadelphia Polyclinic. Second Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged. 105 handsome Illustrations. 

No. 17. CUSHING. HISTOLOGY. By H. H. Cushing, m.d.. 
Demonstrator of Histology, Jefferson Medical College, Philadel- 
phia. Illustrated. 

No. 18. THAYER. SPECIAL PATHOLOGY. Illustrated. By 
same Author as No. 15. 

Price, each, Cloth, .80. Interleaved, for taking Notes, $1.00. 

Careful attention has been given to the construction of each sentence, 
and while the books will be found to contain an immense amount of 
knowledge in small space, they will likewise be found easy reading ; 
there is no stilted repetition of words ; the style is clear, lucid, and dis- 
tinct. The arrangement of subjects is systematic and thorough ; there 
It a reason for every word. They contain over 600 illustrations. 



Morris' 
Anatomy 

Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 

790 Illustrations, of which many 
are in Colors. 

Royal Octavo. Cloth, $6.00 ; Sheep, $7.00 ; 

Half Russia, $8.00. 

Special Thumb Index in Each Copy. 



From The Medical Record, New York. 

" The reproach that the English language can boast of no 
treatise on anatomy deserving to be ranked with the masterly 
works of Henle, Luschka, Hyrtl, and others, is fast losing 
its force. During the past few years several works of great 
merit have appeared, and among these Morris's "Anatomy " 
seems destined to take first place in disputing the palm in 
anatomical fields with the German classics. The nomencla- 
ture, arrangement, and entire general character resemble 
strongly those of the above-mentioned handbooks, while in 
the beauty and profuseness of its illustrations it surpasses 
them. . . . The ever-growing popularity of the book 
with teachers and students is an index of its value, and it 
may safely be recommended to all interested." 

From The Philadelphia Medical Journal. 

" Of all the text-books of moderate size on human anatomy 
in the English language, Morris is undoubtedly the most 
up-to-date and accurate." 



*»* Handsome Descriptive Circular, with Sample Pages and 
Colored Illustrations, will be sent free upon application. 



This book is DUE on the last date stamped below 


.JAY 18 1931 






WW'e 1936 






JAN 8 1941 




♦ 


m i 194.1 












MAR 2 7 1958 






7 






Form L-9-35m-8,'28 







216 Burnet - j'ood. 
95f — and din tn pies 




A 001 377 762 8 



UNIVEKm i i vi CALAFOHMlM 

AT 

LOS ANGELES 



T IUD A T» -IT 



5& 



:&::■ 







