LIBRARY OFi^ONGRESS. 

■ ^'ifiL'^ — 

Cliap.,„.-Lv Copyright No. 

Shelf.-. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



©Y^ftaf oQe can ilo >^ 

^ ©Y^itft a ©fiaflr\g-©i/i)ft 



A GUIDE FOR 
AMATEUR COOKS 

By H. L. S. 



N£IV REVISED AND ENLARGED EDITION 



NEW YORK 
JOHN IRELAND 

1 192 BROADWAY 







COPTRIQHT, 1SS9, 
BT 

H. L. SAWTELLE. 
Copyright, 1890, 

BY 

JOHN IRELAND. 

Copyright, 1896, 
JOHN IRELAND, 



/ 






Contents. 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Anchovy Toast, Creamed, 


148 


Calf's Liver Saut6, . 


82 


Articles convenient to have for 




Caviare, ..... 


149 


Chafing-dish, . . . . 


S 


Cheese Crouton, 


141 






Cheese Fondu, 


140 


Beans, Lima, 


114 


Cheese Souffle, 


142 


Beef, Cold Roast, Rechauffe of, . 


66 


Chicken d la Reine, 


95 


Beef, Chipped, . . . . 


63 


Chicken, Canned, . 


98 


Beef, Curry of Cold Roast, . 


65 


Chicken, Salpicon of. 


97 


Beef en Matelotte, .... 


62 


Chicken Terrapin, . 


96 


Beef with Jelly, . . . . 


69 


Chops with Mushrooms, 


72 


Beefsteak ^ la Mode, 


59 


Clams, ..... 


20 


Beefsteak Rechauffe, 


60 


Clams and Scallops, Creamed, 


22 


Beignets de Pommes, 


145 


Clams, Soft-shell, . 


21 


Bouches D'Hiiitres, 


44 


Collops, Minced au Naturel, . 


64 


Bouille-^-Baisse, . . . . 


31 


Crabs en Creme, 


53 


Bread Saute, 


146 


Crabs, Saute', .... 


52 


Bubble and Squeak, 


67 


Curry Sauce for Cold Meats, 


90 



CONTENTS. 



Dried Beef with Eggs, 
Duck, Canvas-back, 

Eggs a I'Espagnole, 
Eggs a la Jardiniere, 
Eggs h la Maitre D'Hotel, 
Eggs, Creamed, 
Eggs, Curried, 
Eggs, Fricasseed, 
Eggs, Scrambled, . 
Eggs en huile. Scrambled, 

Fish, Cod, Deviled, 
Fish, Cod, Scrambled, . 
Fish, Cod, Tongues, 
Fish, Curried, 
Fish— Halibut Saut(?, 
Fish— Herring k I'Anglaise, 
Fish, Rechauffe of, . 
Fish Roe, 

Fish Roe, Shad, Curried, 
Fish, Salpicon of, . 



PAGE 

94 

133 
128 

135 
134 
131 
132 
136 
137 



Fish, Salt Cod, Dessicated, 

Fish, Salt Cod, Hash, . 

Fish, Salt, Scorched, 

Fish, White, k la Frovenjale, 

Fricandeau de foie de veau, 

Fritadella, 

Frogs, 

Game, Salmi of, 
Game, Salpicon of, . 

Ham i I'Espagnole, 
Ham i la Fourchette, 
Ham and Eggs, 
Ham, Deviled, 
Ham, Piquant Sauce, 
Hamburg Steak, 
Huitres en Coquilles, 

Jambon k bon gout. 

Lamb's Liver, . 
Lobster, . 



33 

36 
32 
41 
83 
91 
58 

102 



87 
138 
86 
89 
61 
49 
109 

84 
25 



CONTENTS. 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Lobster a la Newberg, 


24 


Oysters, Kornlet, . . . 


. 48 


Lobster au Naturel, 


23 


Oysters, Sautes, 


• 45 


Lobster, Curried, . . . . 


26 


Oysters, Scolloped, 


. 46 


Macaroni 4 la Gruyere, . 


144 


Petit Pois, . . . - 


; IIO 


Macaroni au Gratin, 


125 










Pic-ca-dee, . . . . 


. lOI 


Mushrooms — Agaricus Campestris 


120 


Pie's Feet Saute, 


• 85 


Mushrooms a la Provengale, . 


124 


' 
Potatoes i la Lyonnaise, 


. U2 


Mushrooms— Cantharellus Ciba- 




Potatoes Rechauffe, 


• 113 


rius, ...... 


122 


Potato Souffle, 


. Ill 


Mushrooms — Fairy Ring Cham- 










Poulet au Champignons, 


. 100 


pignon, ...... 


121 


Preface, . . . . • 


. 7 


Mushrooms, Meadow, 


118 










Prune Toast, . . . . 


• 147 


Mushroom Puff Ball, 


119 






Mushrooms, Saute' of, . 


117 


Ragout of Cold Meat, . 


• 70 


Mushrooms with Bacon, 


123 


Reed Birds, . . . . 


. 107 


Mutton or Lamb Re'chauffe, . 


71 


Reed Birds in Blankets, 


. io8 


Mock Oyster Stew, . . . . 


5° 






Omelet, 


129 


Salmon a la Reine, 


• 29 


Omelet, Tomato, . . . . 


130 


Salmon Rechauffe, . 


• 39 


Oyster Crabs, Saute of, . 


51 


Salpicon Imperial . 


• 99 


Oysters a la Creme, 


47 


Sardine Toast, . ' . . 


. 56 



CONTENTS. 









PAGE 


Sardines with Hollandaise Sauce, . 57 


Scallops and Clams, Creamec 


. 22 


Scallops en huile, 


■ 43 


Scallops, Saute of, 






• 42 


Shrimps, . 






. 17 


Shrimps, Creamed, 






. 18 


Shrimps, Stewed, 






• 19 


Squabs, . 






. 106 


Stew, English, 






. 68 


Sweet-breads, . 






• 75 


Sweet-breads i la Milanaise, 


• 73 


Sweet-breads and Mushroom 


Ra- 


gout, .... 


■ 74 


Tomato Puree and Macaroni, 


. 126 


Tomatoes and Mush 


rooms . 


. 116 



Tomatoes, Fried, 

Tongue, Deviled Ox, 

Tripe, 

Tripe Saute, 

Turkey, Capilotade of 

Turkey, Salpicon of. 

Veal, Curried, . 
Veal Cutlets, . 
Veal Kidneys Saute, 
Venison, . 
Venison Steak, 

Welsh Rarebit, 

Welsh Rarebit, Paprica, 

Wheatena, 



IIS 

79 
92 

93 
104 
103 

77 
76 

78 
80 



139 
143 

150 



List of Articles convenient to have on hand 
FOR Chafing-dish use. 

Tomato Pur^e. (Italian grocer.) 

Johnston's Fluid Beef. (Any good grocer.) 

Anchovy paste. 

Paprica (Hungarian red pepper). 

Curry powder. 

Kornlet. 

Caviare. 

Garlic. 

Can of unsweetened condensed milk. 

Mushroom catsup. 

Tomato catsup. 

Petit Pois. 

Two or three small wooden spoons. 

A small grater. 

Wire-toaster for gas. 

5 



Preface. 

/^HAFING-DISHES are growing- daily more and more in favor, 
^ and to the dairitiness of tlie food to be prepared is added the 
charm of social intercourse and the informality of the environment. 
The excellence of the edibles so prepared lies greatly in the fact 
that they are served instantly, and that the hand of the cook is 
guided by brains. Many dainty dishes lose much of the piquancy 
of their flavor in the transfer from the kitchen range to the dining- 
room. 

Lalance & Grosjean have added to their outfit of agate utensils 
a small stove, heated by a remarkable fuel called Sestalit, which emits 
no smoke or odor, is cleanly and non-explosive, and creates no fiame. 



It will be found a most convenient addition to the usual alcohol lamp, 
and in many instances will take the place of it. The heat is mod- 
erate and uniform. It is often desirable to keep one dish hot while 
another is being prepared, and in cooking mushrooms a low tem- 
perature is essential, in order to preserve their delicate flavor. This 
mode of cooking is also ver)^ inexpensive, as two cents' worth of the 
fuel will keep the chafing-dish supplied for at least two hours. 

I also recommend a small wire arrangement for toasting bread 
b}' the heat of a gas-burner. The use of this recent invention (which 
can probably be found at any of the house-furnishing stores) enables 
one to have hot toast to be served with the contents of the chafing- 
dish. 



TT will be noticed that the recipe used almost invariably for 
■^ the chafing-dish source, is two tablespoonfuls of flour, mixed 
smoothly with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; the spoon- 
fuls of flour should be scant, even tablespoonfuls, and those of 
butter, heaping. Good stock can be made at a moment's notice 
by dissolving a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef in half a pint of 
boiling water, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and two or three 
drops of extract of celery, and a small teaspoonful of onion 
juice. 



T ESPECIALLY recommend the use of Johnston's Fluid Beef 
-^ for stock and sauces. It is an extract of the choicest beef, 
prepared (under letters patent) with scrupulous care, and is not 
only nutritive, but very palatable. It has a much more agree- 
able flavor than any of the other condensed preparations of 
beef, and for chafing-dish use it will be found to be almost 
indispensable, as many of the recipes depend for their excellence 
partly upon this invaluable preparation. 



'"HHE spirit of each dish, and zest of all, 
Is what ingenious cooks the relish call. 
For though the market sends in loads of food. 
They are all tasteless, till that, makes them good." 

— Kings Cookery. 



rPHIS foretaste of Epicurean delights I dedicate to an old 

friend in the Admiralty, the delicacy of whose gastronomic 

perceptions is the best authority I can offer, for the excellency 
of these recipes. 



TTE that can grasp the golden mean, 
And is content to hve between 

The little and the great — 
Knows not the wants that plague the poor, 
Nor the plagues that fret the rich man's door." 

— Horace. 



''TJE that will have a cake out of wheat, must needs 
tarry at the grinding." — Troilus and Cressida. 



TXTE may live without poetry, music and art, 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart ; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks ! 
He may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dinine?" 



TXTHAT does cookery mean? It means the knowledge of 
" " Medea, and of Circe, and of Calypso, and of Helen, and 
of Rebekah, and of the Queen of Sheba. It means knowledge 
of all herbs, and fruits, and balms, and spices, and of all that 
is healing and sweet in groves, and savory in meat. It means 
carefulness and inventiveness, watchfulness, willingness, and readi- 
ness of appliances. It means the economy of your great-grand- 
mother, and the science of modern chemistry, and French art, 
and Arabian hospitality. It means, in fine, that you are to see 
imperatively that every one has something nice to eat." — Ruskin. 

It means, also, that much may be done by taking pains with 
a chafine-dish. 



A N Agate Chafing-Dish, of extra size, is manufactured expressly 
-^ for the recipes contained in this book, and it is preferable 
to any other (except sterling silver), not only on account of the 
smooth, polished surface, but the much greater amount of heat 
to be obtained quickly. 



Shrimps. 

T)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, half an 
^ onion, grated or minced very fine. When hot, stir in half a cup 
of cold rice, carefully boiled ; add a gill of cream, and half a pint 
of canned or fresh shrimps ; add a tablespoonful of tomato sauce. 
Stir well until it comes to the boiling point, then let it simmer for 
about five minutes. 



Creamed Shrimps. 

ONE can of shrimps, half a puit of cream, a teaspoonful of 
paprica, a little salt, and a little nutmeg. Cut the shrimps 
in small pieces ; put all together in the chafing-dish, stir constantly, 
and when it comes to a boil (do not let it boil actively) stir in 
two well-beaten eggs and a glass of Moselle. 



Stewed Shrimps, 

PUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted, stir in a tablespoonful of fiour, a little salt and pepper. 
Add gradually nearly a pint of rich milk. Rinse in cold water a 
can of N. O. shrimps, dry them, cut in two, and add them to 
the sauce. Stir constantly for four or five minutes, and serve hot. 



Clams. 

TTAVE twenty-five clams chopped fine; put in the chafing-dish 
■^ -^ two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Add the clams, with half a pint of their 
juice ; season well with pepper and salt, and let them simmer 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Just before serving, add a gill of 
cream, and let it come to a boil; serve hot. 



Soft-shell Clams, 

HAVE all the hard part removed from fifty perfectly fresh soft- 
shell clams. Put in the chafing-dish a heaping tablespoonful 
of butter; when melted, add the clams, with a wineglass of 
Madeira. Let them cook slowly for about ten minutes. Add 
the well-beaten yolks of three eggs to a pint of cream, pour this 
over the clams, and stir constantly for about five minutes. 



Scallops and Clams Creamed. 

/^NE bunch of soft-shell clams from which the hard part has 
^-^ been carefully removed; one-half pint of scallops. Let the 
scallops stand in very hot water for five minutes, then dran. Put 
in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when melted, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, a little pepper and salt, and a few 
drops of onion-juice ; stir in a gill of cream. When very hot, 
add the clams and scallops, and cook from five to ten minutes. 



Lobster au Naturel. 

T^EAT the yolks of two eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of 
■^ butter, until smooth ; add a gill of cream ; season well with 
pepper and salt ; stir in the finely-chopped meat of a freshly- 
boiled lobster ; let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. 
Do not let it boil, as that would cook the egg too much. 



Lobster a la Newberg, 

mAKE the nicest part of two small or one large lobster, cut 
^ into small slice, put in the chafing-dish with a tablespoonful 
of butter; season well with pepper and salt, pour over it a 
gill of wine; cook ten minutes; add the beaten yolks of three 
eggs and half a pint of cream. Let all come to a boil, and 
serve immediately. 



Lobster, 

pHOP or shred the meat of a cold, boiled lobster, tail and 
^ claws; pour over it the juice of two lemons, add half a 
teaspoonful of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of salt. Put in the 
chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; when melted, 
add the lobster. Let it simmer for about ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. — Caterer. 



Curried Lobster. 

"pUT in the chafing-dish a lablespoonful of butter, and fry an 
onion and an apple, chopped very fine, until they are 
thoroughly cooked ; sprinkle with curry-powder, according to taste, 
from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful ; mix a tablespoonful of 
cornstarch with half a pint of cream ; pour into the chafing-dish, 
and when it is smooth and very hot add the lobster, cut in small 
pieces. 



Fish Roe, 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with a 
•^ tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Add a shad roe 
(which has been previously boiled about ten minutes in salted 
water). Break up lightly with a fork, add the yolks of two 
hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine, a small cup of grated bread 
crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Stir con- 
stantly until all is well mixed, and serve very hot. 



Rechauffe of Fish. 

/^UT fine, any cold-boiled fish; put in the chafing-dish with 
^ two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add a cupful of 
bread crumbs, two eggs beaten slightly, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a little pepper 
and cayenne. Mix all well together; let it simmer about five 
minutes, stirring constantly, and serve. 



Salmon a la Reine. 



T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
■*- meked, stir in gradually a tablespoonful of flour; stir until 
quite smooth ; add a gill of water^ the juice of a lemon, pepper, 
salt, a small onion, minced very fine or grated, and the yolks of 
three hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine. Add a can of salmon or a 
pound of fresh-boiled salmon ; let it simmer about five minutes 
and serve. 



Curried Fish. 

r^OOK one tablespoonful of onion, cut very fine, in one table- 
^ spoonful of butter, five minutes. Be careful not to burn. 
Mix one tablespoonful of curry powder with one tablespoonful 
of flour, and stir into the melted butter. Add, gradually, half 
a pint of milk or cream, stirring constantly. Then add a large 
cupful of any kind of cold-boiled fish; let it simmer a few 
minutes, and serve very hot. 



BOUILLE A BAISSE, 

JTIRY an onion chopped very fine in two tablespoonfuls of pure 
^ olive oil ; add a clove of garlic minced very fine, a dash of 
cayenne, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of flour; stir until 
smooth ; then add half a pint of white stock, a cupful of cold 
boiled cod or halibut, a cupful of lobster; let it simmer from ten 
to fifteen minutes, stirrina: often. 



Scorched Salt Fish. 

~r)ICK a small piece of the thickest part of a salt cod, which 
-^ has been soaked over night, into long flakes ; dry with a 
napkin ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; 
when very Jiot, put in the flakes of fish, brown a little on both 
sides ; serve very hot. It is a good appetizer. 



Salt Cod Fish, Desiccated, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ melted, add one tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly; 
add half a pint of desiccated codfish, which has been soaked 
for an hour in tepid water. Add a gill of cream and a little 
pepper, and, if you like, a suspicion of grated nutmeg. Let 
it all simmer for ten minutes, stirring constantly. — Caterer. 



Salpicon of Fish, 

r^UT cold toast into squares or rounds; lay on each a thick 
^ slice of raw tomato ; on top of each put some flakes of cold 
cooked codfish or halibut ; cover with a plentiful supply of 
Hollandaise sauce. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing- 
dish ; lay in the prepared pieces of toast ; cover for about five 
minutes, and serve. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

CREAM quarter of a pound of butter ; add yolks of three eggs ; 
beat well together ; add the juice of half a lemon and a 
small saltspoonful of cayenne ; stir until smooth and creamy. 



Scrambled Codfish, 

pUT half a pint of cream into the chafing-dish; when hot, stir 
in half a pint of shredded, well -freshened codfish; let it 
simmer about ten minutes, then add two well-beaten eggs; stir 
until they are cooked, add a little white pepper, and serve. 



Salt Codfish Hash, 

T)UT half a pint of cream into the chafing-dish ; add half a pint 
-^ of mashed potatoes, half a pint of shredded codfish, and a 
little pepper. Serve when thoroughly heated. 



Codfish Tongues. 

T^UT into the chafing-dish a heaping tablespoonful of butter, in 
-'^ which bruise a clove of garHc with a small wooden spoon ; 
take out the garlic ; stir in until smooth a tablespoonful of flour, 
pepper, and salt. Add a pint of Moselle or any white wine and 
when hot stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs; in this warm the 
codfish tongues, which have been previously cooked in salted water 
for about thirty minutes. 



Deviled Cod, 

1 yriX a pint of cold-cooked fresh cod, chopped fine, with four 
-^"•^ hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Put in the chafing-dish 
half a pint of cream and a tablespoonful of Anchov}^ paste; when 
well mixed and hot, stir in the above mixture and serve. 



Salmon Rechauffe, 

QEPARATE into flakes a pound of fresh or a can of salmon; 
^ pour over it a gill of French dressing made of equal parts 
of vinegar and oil, a few drops of onion-juice, pepper, and salt. 
Put in the chafing-dish two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter and 
a dessert-spoonful of flour ; add a gill of cream and a gill of 
sherry ; when well mixed, add the fish and heat thoroughly. 



Halibut Saute, 

TTAVE a pound of chicken halibut, cut in tliin slices about 
^ ^ two inches square, well dredged in flour, pepper, and salt. 
Put in the chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of butter. When 
very hot, put in the fish ; as soon as one side is well browned, 
turn and brown the other. Take out the fish and pour into the 
chafing-dish the contents of a can of tomato puree ; as soon as 
hot, pour over the fish, and serve. 



White Fish a la Provencale, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
■^ melted, add one tablespoonful of flour and a gill of milk 
or cream. Mash fine the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, which 
mix well with a teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste ; stir constantly 
until it boils. Add a pound of cold-boiled halibut, cod, or any 
white fish, cut in small slices, let it simmer a few minutes, and 
serve. 



Saute of Scollops, 

CUT in small pieces half a pint of scollops, which have been 
previously boiled about fifteen minutes ; squeeze the juice 
of two lemons over them ; add half a teaspoonful of cayenne, a 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuis of butter ; put all in the 
chafing-dish. Stir constantly for about ten minutes, and serve. 



Scallops en Huile. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil, 
-^ salt, a dash of cayenne, six drops of celery extract, and a 
dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put half a pint of scallops in 
water at the boiling point (do not let it boil) for five minutes; 
then drain dry, and dredge with flour by shaking in a napkin. 
When the oil is very hot, add the scallops, and fry quickly. 



BoucHES d'Huitres. 

ROLL large oysters in pepper and salt; have ready some very 
thin slices of salt fat pork; wrap each oyster in a slice, and 
fasten with a wooden toothpick. Put in the chafing-dish, and 
cook just long enough to crisp the pork. 



Oysters Sautes. 

O ELECT a dozen large, fine oysters, drain the juice thoroughly 
*^ from them, butter the chafing-dish well, and when very hot 
place the oysters in single layers. When brown on one side turn 
it upon the other, and brown that also. While cooking, keep 
adding a little butter; this, combining with the juice given out by 
the oyster, forms a brown skin in the chafing-dish, and is the very 
quintescence of oyster flavor. Season with pepper and salt ; when 
nicely browned, serve all, oysters and skin, very hot. — Caterer. 



Scolloped Oysters, 

PUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
gill of cream ; put in a layer of oysters, well drained, and 
sprinkle over it two tablespoonfuls of cerealine (Cerealine Flakes), 
another layer of oysters, more cerealine and some small bits of 
butter; season with pepper and salt. Put on the cover, and cook 
from five to ten minutes. 



46 



Oysters a la Creme. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a 
-^ pint of cream, a salt-spoonful of salt, same quantity of 
pepper, a little powdered mace, or grated nutmeg, and two bay 
leaves.. When it boils, sift in two dessert-spoonfuls of finely 
powdered cracker crumbs ; add twenty-five oysters, blanched and 
drained, cook two minutes, and serve on hot toast. 



KoRNLET Oysters, 

MIX with the contents of a can of Kornlet four eggs, well 
beaten, a little salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of thick 
cream. Put in the chafing-dish two tanlespoonfuls of butter, and 
when very hot fry the mixture in small portions, about the size 
of an oyster, 



HUITRES EN COQUILLES. 



PUT in the chafing-dish three tablespoon fuls of butter and a 
tablespoonful of flour ; when melted and smooth, add half a 
pint of thick cream, a tablespoonful of grated onion, eight drops 
of celery extract, and a little parsley chopped fine, a little salt, a 
dash of cayenne, and the yolks of three eggs. Do not let the 
sauce boil after the eggs are put in or it will curdle. Pour this 
sauce into a bowl. Put twenty-five large oysters into the 
chafing-dish and cook slowly until they are quite solid — thoroughly 
cooked without shrinking — now pour over them the sauce, and 
serve quite hot. 



Mock Oyster Stew, 

rpA-KE a small piece of salt cod, which has been soaked in 
i cold water over night, and cooked until soft (which should 
be done by simmering slowly, not boiling), shred it f^ne and 
mix well with it a tablespoonful of dry flour. Put it In the 
chafing-dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter, a dozen oyster 
crackers split; pour over the mixture two cups of hot milk or 
cream; season with pepper, and stir constantly five or ten 
minutes. 



Saute of Oyster Crabs, 

PUT one tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, season with 
salt and cayenne; when very hot, add half a pint of oyster 
crabs, cook one minute, and serve. 



Crabs Saute, 

T)UT into the chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of butter, a little 
^ salt, a salt-spoonful of cayenne, a tablespoon ful of lemon-juice, 
a dessert-spoonful of onion-juice. Now add a pint of crab-meat ; 
(it can be procured in Fulton Market fresh) ; stir constantly until 
well heated, and serve at once. 



Crabs en Creme. 

"QUT into the chafing-dish half a pint of thick cream ; add a 
-^ pint of crab-meat ; salt and pepper ; serve as soon as hot. 
It is an improvement to dredge over the meat a little flour 
while stirring it ; let it simmer about five minutes. 



Shad-Roe Curried, 

FRY in a tablespoonful of pure olive oil a small onion, minced 
fine; add a teaspoonful of curry, a dash of cayenne, and two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Cut in slices a shad- roe that has 
been previously boiled in salted water, and when very hot serve. 



Herring a l'Anglaise. 

/^HOOSE a fat Yarmouth bloater, with a fine soft roe; soak 
^ it in millc, skin, and bone carefully., and pound in a mortar 
with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Put in the chafing-dish 
a tablespoonful of pure olive oil, a teaspoonful of grated onion, 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a teaspoonful of 
paprica ; add the above paste and stir until well mixed and hot; 
serve on toast. 



Sardine Toast, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
■^ of flour; stir until smooth and a light brown. Add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of stock, the grated zest of half a lemon, 
two or three drops of essence of cloves, a wineglass of sherry. 
Remove the skin from six or eight boned sardines, chop fine, 
add a teaspoonful of grated onion ; stir until the ingredients are 
thoroughly mixed, and serve hot on toast. 



Sardines with Hollandaise Sauce. 

REMOVE the skins from a small box of boneless sardines; 

add four tablespoonfuls of Hollandaise sauce, and when 
thoroughly heated serve on toast. 



Frogs, 

T^ROGS can be purchased in the market prepared for cook- 
-^ ing ; cut them in halves, lengthwise ; separate the legs. Put 
three tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when melted, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, stir until smooth, then add a gill 
of cream, then the frogs, well seasoned with pepper, salt and a 
little grated nutmeg. Put on the cover and cook for twenty 
minutes. A little more cream or milk may be added while 
cookine. — Caterer. 



Beefsteak a la Mode, 

T)UT a pound of beefsteak, cut about an inch thick, in the 
-^ chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter has been 
melted, with two or three sHces of lemon. Let it cook slowly 
five or ten minutes ; then pour over it a gill of good stock, 
or the same quantity of hot water, in which a dessert-spoonful 
of fluid beef has been dissolved, also a gill of port wine. Allow 
the whole to simmer slowly ten minutes longer. When ready 
to serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the steak. — Caterer. 



Beefsteak Rechauffe, 

CUT in small dice the remains of a good tender steak. Put in 
the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, a tablespoonful of Johnston's Fluid Beef ; pepper 
and salt. When hot, add the beef, and serve as soon as hot ; 
do not let it boil. A tablespoonful of mushroom catsup is an 
improvement. 



Hamburg Steak, 

r^NE pound of beef from the tender part of the round, 
^ chopped very fine. Put into the chafing-dish three table- 
spoonfuls of butter. When melted, a layer of grated bread- 
crumbs, then a layer of chopped meat ; over that sprinkle 
pepper, salt, a little grated onion, and chopped parsley. Cover 
closely, and let it cook about ten minutes. Serve hot. 



Beef en Matelotte, 

r^HOP very fine six small onions and put in the chafing-dish 
^ with two tablespoonfuls of butter; when a light brown, 
shake in from a small dredging-box about a tablespoonful of 
flour, stirring all the while. Add a glass of claret, a table- 
spoonful of stock, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, salt, 
pepper, and two or three drops of extract of celery ; lay in 
the hot-water plate some slices of cold roast-beef, preferably 
the fillet, and strain over it from the chafing-dish the sauce, 
prepared as above. Place it over the lamp, closely covered, long 
enough to heat through. 



Chipped Beef, 

"r)UT into the chafing-dish three tablespoon fuls of butter; when 
^ melted, stir in a tablespoonful of flour; stir until smooth; 
add half a pound of chipped beef, which has been soaking for 
ten minutes in about a gill of water ; let it simmer for five 
minutes, then stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs ; serve very 
hot. 



63 



Minced Collops au Naturel. 

/^RDER from the butcher a pound of beef from the tender 
^^ part of the round, chopped very fine, quite free from fat, 
skin, etc.; season with pepper and salt; put in the chafing-dish 
before it is hot ; stir constantly until it becomes very hot, to 
prevent the meat forming in lumps. Saute it in its own juice 
for about ten minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of butter, a 
small onion minced veiy fine, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup 
and a tablespoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with a 
little butter. — Caterer. 



64 



Curry of Cold Roast Beef. 

CUT some slices of cold roast beef into rather small, square pieces, 
and dredge them with flour. Chop a small onion fine, and fry 
it in two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a gill of 
stock, and one tablespoonful of curry powder ; put in the pieces of 
beef, and let all simmer ten or fifteen minutes. 



Cold Roast Beef RechauffS. 

r^UT cold roast beef in small slices, about half an inch thick; put 
^ into the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter ; when melted, 
add three tablespoonfuls of currant-jelly, a dash of cayenne, a little 
salt, and a glass of sherry or Madeira. Add the beef, and serve 
when hot. 



Bubble and Squeak. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; slightly 
^ cook some thin slices of cold corned beef, well peppered ; 
add some cold boiled cabbage, chopped fine, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of pickled cucumber and onion, 
mixed, and a small teaspoonful of made mustard ; serve hot. 



67 



" English Stew. 

r^UT any kind of cold meat, as for hash, sprinkle it with pepper, salt 
^ and flour, and lay it in the chafing-dish, in which a tablespoonful 
of butter has been previously melted, with some pickled cabbage or 
onions. Pour over it a gill of hot water, in which a tablespoonful of 
fluid beef has been dissolved, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, 
and a dessert-spoonful of taragon vinegar. Let all simmer for ten 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 



Beef with Jelly, 

PUT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of 
currant jelly, a dash of cayenne, a little grated nutmeg ; stir 
until well blended, then add a gill of sherry. Put in slices of 
rare roast-beef and let them simmer (not boil) for about five 
minutes, turning often. 



6g 



Ragout of Cold Meat, 

r)UT into the chafing-dish a heaping tablespoonful of butter, an 






even tablespoonful of flour ; when melted and smoothly 
blended, stir in a tablespoonful of grated onion, a tablespoonful of 
cucumbers (also grated), a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a 
teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of paprica, two 
or three drops of celery extract. Stir until very hot, then lay in 
slices of either cold veal, lamb, mutton, or chicken. 



Mutton or Lamb Rechauffe. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ melted, add, stirring constantly, a tablespoonful of flour; 
add a gill of water; when it boils, stir in a heaping teaspoonful 
of fluid beef, and one or two teaspoonfuls of mushroom or 
walnut catsup. Add the cold mutton or lamb cut in small 
dice, or thin slices, let it simmer about five minutes and serve. 



Chops with Mushrooms. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
■^ of olive oil, six or eight drops of celery extract, a teaspoon- 
ful of onion-juice, pepper and salt ; when very hot, put in half a 
dozen lamb-chops; when brown on one side, turn and brown 
the other. They will take about five minutes to cook. When 
ready to serve, pour over them a mushroom sauce that has been 
very slowly cooking in a little butter and its own juice for half 
an hour. 



Sweet-Breads a la Milanaise, 

MINCE very fine two sweet-breads that have been carefully pre- 
pared and thoroughly parboiled ; add a tablespoonful of 
Parmesan cheese grated, a little salt and cayenne, and the beaten 
yolks of two eggs; mix thoroughly. Put into the chafing-dish two 
tablespoonfuls of butter ; when very hot pour in the above mixture ; 
let it brown slightly, and serve hot. 



Sweet-Bread and Mushroom Ragout. 

"JPUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when 
^ melted, two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly. 
Season with salt and pepper; add a gill of cream, a cold- 
dressed sweet-bread, and a dozen mushrooms, cut into small 
dice. Let all simmer for about ten minutes, stirring often. 



Sweet-Breads, ■ 

T^UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
■^ very hot put in the sweet-breads (which have been pre- 
viously boiled and prepared), cut in small pieces. Cook about 
five minutes ; take out the sweet-breads ; add gradually a table- 
spoonful of flour, pepper and salt, and a gill of cream. Stir 
constantly until you have a smooth sauce, return the sweet- 
breads to the chafing-dish, and serve hot. 



Veal Cutlets, 

/OUTLETS for the chafing-dish should be previously prepared by 
^ dipping- pieces cut thin, about two inches square, into eggs, 
beaten, and seasoned with pepper and salt. After they are egged, 
dip them lightly into a little grated Parmesan cheese, then into 
sifted cracker-crumbs. Fry three or four slices of fat salt pork in 
the chafing-dish. When it is crisp, take out the pork (keep hot) 
and cook the cutlets in the fat. Serve hot, a piece of pork with 
each. 



Curried Veal, 

CUT into small pieces, half an inch square, about a pound of 
cold roast veal ; put in the chafingrdish two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, an onion, a tart apple, and a clove of garlic, all 
minced fine ; then stir in a tablespoonful of curry powder, and 
half a tablespoonful of ffour; add the meat and pour in half a 
pint of stock, or the same quantity of hot water, in which a 
dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. Add a little 
lemon juice and salt, let it all simmer slowly a few minutes, 
and serve hot. 



Veal Kidneys Sautes. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; add a 
small onion, minced fine ; when very hot add a veal kidney 
cut in thin slices ; let them cook for about five minutes, turning 
often. As soon as they are nicely browned, add a tablespoonful 
of mushroom ketchup, and either a tablespoonful of stock or a 
dessert-spoonful of fluid beef, dissolved in a little cream. Season 
with pepper and salt, and, if you like, just before serving, add 
a glass of Madeira or Sherry. 



Ox Tongues, Deviled, 

r^UT into slices one of Libby, McNeill & Libby's ox tongues; 
^ put a layer of them on an ordinary dinner plate, sprinkle over 
with dry mustard, a little cayenne, and two teaspoonfuls of salad oil ; 
place over this another layer of tongue and season as before. Repeat 
this until a sufficient quantity of the tongue has been treated ; let it 
remain for three or four hours. Put a tablespoonful of butter in the 
chafing-dish, and when very hot add slices of tongue, and brown 
quickly. Add more butter as it is required. 



Venison, 

CUT a steak in pieces about two inches square ; shake them in 
a napkin with a handful of flour, to which a little pepper and 
salt has been added ; put three tablespoonfuls of butter in the 
chafing-dish, and when very hot put in the venison and cook 
quickly. When done, add half a tumbler of currant jelly ; let it 
melt, and pour over the meat. 



Venison Steak. 

TTAVE the steak cut about an inch and a half thick. Lay it in the 
''- -^ chafing-dish, in which two tablespoonfuls of butter have been 
melted. Season with pepper and salt. Add two gills of port wine, 
and a tablespoonful of pure red currant jelly. Cook until one side is 
done, then turn, and cook the other side. The degree of cooking 
must depend upon your own taste. — Caterer. 



Calf's Liver Saute, ■ ■ 

PUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
tablespoonful of onion, minced fine. When very hot, add 
half a pound of calf's liver, cut in slices, well seasoned with 
pepper and salt and dredged with iiour. Saute on both sides, 
and serve hot, with a sauce made by beating the yolk of an 
egg with a tablespoonful of butter, a little cayenne, and a dessert- 
spoonful of lemon-juice. 



Fricandeau de foie de Veau, 

CUT ill small dice a portion of calf's liver that has been pre- 
viously cooked. Put into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and a tablespoonful of flour. Stir until smooth ; add a 
tablespoonful of chopped onion and a teaspoonful of paprica ; 
pepper and salt; add a gill of cream and the liver; let it simmer 
for about ten minutes. When ready to serve on thin slices of 
toast, add a tablespoonful of sherry. 



Lamb's Liver. 

r^UT the liver in thin slices and the slices into narrow strips; 
^ put in a napkin a tablespoonful of flour and a little pepper 
and salt ; put in the liver and shake well until it is thoroughly 
dredged with flour. Put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, a teaspoonful of onion-juice, and six or eight drops of 
celery extract. When very hot, add the liver, and cook until a 
light brown from five to ten minutes. 



84 



Pig's-feet Saute, 

p ET from your grocer pig's-feet from the Deerfoot Farm (a set 
of pig's-feet that are already cooked); have them split in 
two and rolled in cracker-dust, seasoned with pepper and salt. 
Put into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, and fry a 
lig-ht brown. 



Deviled Ham, 

MIX a large teaspoonful of French mustard, a teaspoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, a little salt, and a salt-spoonful of 
paprica. When well mixed, spread over both sides of a slice of 
cold boiled ham ; put a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, 
and when very hot put in the ham, and brown quickly on both 
sides. 



Ham a la Fourchette. 

TN the hot-water plate melt a tablespoonful of butter; put in 
^ a cup and a half of cold boiled ham, minced fine, and half 
a dozen cold boiled potatoes, sliced thin ; put the ham and the 
potatoes in the plate in alternate layers, and set it aside. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour, then add slowly a pint of rich milk ; season 
with pepper and salt ; stir in two well-beaten eggs, let it simmer 
three or four minutes, then pour over the dish of ham and 
potatoes ; remove the chafing-dish, and put the plate over the 
lamp until it is thoroughly heated — about five minutes. 



Ham a l'Espagnole. 

PUT rather a thick slice of ham in the chafing-dish, in which 
you have melted a little butter, brown on both sides, take 
out the ham and mix with the fat in the chafing-dish two 
tablespoonfuls of very fine bread crumbs, and half a gill of 
good cider, not too hard; season with salt and pepper and a 
little chopped parsley. Mix all well together, put back the ham, 
and, when hot, serve. 



Ham, Piquant Sauce. 

l/fELT in the chafing-dish a tablcspoonful of butter, half a 
teaspoonful of mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a 
teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, half a dozen little pickles and 
a tablcspoonful of capers chopped fine, a teaspoonful of grated 
onion, and a few drops of celery extract. When hot, stir in the 
yolks of two eggs. When smooth and creamy, add a pound of 
finely chopped ham, and serve hot. 



Curry Sauce for any kind of Cold Meat. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish with one good- 
sized onion minced fine, eight or ten pepper-corns, a blade of 
mace, two or three bay leaves. Stir until the onion becomes nicely 
browned, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of 
curry powder, a desert-spoonful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, three gills 
of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been 
dissolved, or the same quantity of good stock. Let all simmer five 
or ten minutes, stirring constantly. Strain, and stir in any kind 
of cold meat cut in thin slices, or dice. 



Fritadella. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; cook for 
-^ about two minutes a tablespoonful of very finely minced onion ; 
add a cupful of bread crumbs, and a cupful of any kind of cold meat 
minced fine ; season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and the 
grated yellow rind of a fresh lemon ; add half a gill of hot water, in 
which a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved, or the 
same quantity of stock. Let all simmer for about five minutes, and 
just before serving, add two beaten eggs, well stirred in. 



91 



Tripe. 

TRIPE should be chosen thick, fat and white, and should be 
boiled perfectly tender. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the chafing-dish ; when melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a gill of cream or a gill of milk; add three or four young 
onions, chopped fine, pepper, salt and a little made mustard. 
When well mixed, add half a pound or more of tripe, cut in 
short strips ; let it all simmer about five minutes, and serve 
hot. A few oysters and a little grated nutmeg are an excellent 
addition. 



Tripe Saute. 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
-'- very hot put in half a pound of honey-comb tripe, well 
boiled, cut in strips about three inches long. When brown on 
both sides, take out the tripe and add a tablespoonful of flour, 
a small onion minced fine, and half a pint of cream. Season 
well with pepper and salt ; let it simmer a few minutes, then 
return the tripe to the chafing-dish, and serve when hot. 



Canvas-Back Duck, 

n~'AKE a cold canvas-back, or any wild duck, which has been pre- 
-^ viously roasted for ten minutes in the oven ; divide into suitable 
pieces ; put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with two 
gills of port wine and a little currant jelly ; season with pepper and 
salt, cover the chafing-dish, and cook from five to ten minutes. — 
Caterer. 



Chicken a la Reine. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter and a pint 
-^ of the water in wliich a chicken has been boiled ; season 
with salt and pepper. Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, 
and mix with half a cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs, 
soaked until soft in half a pint of cream or milk ; cut the 
white meat of the chicken very fine ; mix all together, and let 
it simmer for about five minutes, and serve. If not thick 
enough, add more bread crumbs. 



Chicken Terrapin. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish the dark meat of cold chicken, turkey 
-^ or grouse, cut in small slice, with half a pint of cream or 
stock, and when it comes to a boil stir in the following mix- 
ture : two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into a smooth paste 
with a tablespoonful of flour and the yolks of three eggs, a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cayenne pepper and salt, 
all mixed with a little cream or stock. Let it simmer a few 
minutes (not boil), and when ready to serve stir in a large 
wineglass of Madeira. 



96 



Salpicon of Chicken. 

/^NE cup of cold chicken, minced fine, one cup of boiled 
^ macaroni, one cup of tomatoes ; add one teaspoonful of 
paprica and a little salt. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in 
the chafing-dish. When hot, add a gill of cream, and then pour 
in the above mixture. Stir until well heated, and serve imme- 
diately. 



97 



Canned Chicken, 

RICHARDSON & ROBBINS' luncheon bread. Take care- 
fully from the can in solid shape; cut in slices, dip them in 
beaten egg, then in sifted cracker-crumbs. Put three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot lay in the 
slices of chicken ; cook until brown. 



q8 



Salpicon Imperial, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-'- melted, stir in a heaping tablespoonful of flour; pour over 
gradually half a pint of broth and half a pint of cream. Add 
a small onion, a small bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, and a blade 
of mace, all chopped fine ; let it simmer from ten to fifteen 
minutes, stirring often. Put in the hot-water plate the breast 
of a chicken (previously cooked), cut in small dice, and a sweet- 
bread, also cooked ; cut in dice ; pour over it all through the 
strainer the sauce, made as above. Put the plate over the lamp 
until well heated, and serve immediately with croutons of toast- 



PouLET.AUX Champignons. 

PUT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
tablespoonful of flour. Stir until smooth ; add six mushrooms, 
sliced, and cook slowly ten minutes ; now add half a pint of 
cream, pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of grated onion, and a 
very little grated nutmeg. Add a pint of cold chicken, chopped 
fine, and simmer about fifteen minutes longer, stirring often. 



PiC-CA-DEE. 

p\NE pint of chopped meat, any kind of white meat, fowls 
^ or game; one can of tomatoes after the juice has been 
drained off, one onion, chopped fine or grated ; one half pmt 
of cream, a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a few 
drops of celery extract. Put into the chafing-dish a large 1 able- 
spoonful of butter. When hot, add the above mixture ; cook 
ten minutes, stirring occasionally; then add two well-beaten eQos ; 
cook five minutes more, and serve with hot toast. 



Salmi of Game. 

T)UT the remains of a roast partridge in the chafing-dish, with 
^ a small piece of raw ham chopped fine, and a small onion 
chopped fine. Put in a little lace bag, containing a clove of 
aarlic (bruised), three bay leaves, three cloves and a blade of 
mace. Add half a pint of water, and let it all boil slowly half 
an hour. Remove the sac aux fines herbes, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, made into a smooth paste, with one table- 
spoonful of flour and a glass of white wine. Stir constantly a 
few minutes and serve. 



Salpicon of Turkey. 

/^NE pint of turkey meat, minced fine ; a large sweet-bread, 
^-^ minced fine ; a teaspoonful of grated onion, a teaspoonful of 
lemon ; salt and pepper to taste ; heat in the chafing-dish a large 
cup of cream and two tablespoonfuls of butter; when this is 
boiling stir in a tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little of the 
cream reserved for that purpose ; add the meat, and when that has 
cooked about two minutes stir in two beaten eggs ; cook four or 
five minutes longer, and serve hot with toast. 



Capilotade of Turkey, 

/^UT up the remains of cold roast turkey in small pieces. Put in 
^ the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when melted, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring constantly until smooth ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Add half 
a pint of stock or cream, put in the pieces of turkey, with five or six 
mushrooms ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes ; just before serv- 
ing, add a glass of wine. 



Salpicon of Game. 

'"PAKE remains of duck, grouse, or quail and cut in small pieces. 
-^ Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and a tablespoonful of fiour 
in the chafing-dish ; stir until brown ; add a teaspoonful of 
tomato catsup and a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, a tea- 
spoonful of grated onion, salt, pepper, and two or three drops of 
celery extract ; now add the meat, and serve when hot with 
croutons of toast. 



Squabs. 

TJAVE squabs prepared as for broiling. Put three tablespoon- 
-^ -^ fuls of butter in the chafing-dish, pepper and salt, and a few 
drops of celery extract. When very hot, pour into the dish three 
squabs and cook until a light brown on one side, and then turn 
and cook the other side. Serve immediately. 



Reed Birds, 



T)UT in the chafing-dish three tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil, 
^ six drops of celery extract, a little salt and pepper. When 
very hot, add the reed birds and cook from five to ten minutes. 



Reed Birds in Blankets, 

WRAP the birds in very thin slices of salt larding pork ; fasten 
with wooden tooth-picks ; fry them in the chafing-dish 
until the pork is crisp, turning constantly. 



JaMBON a BON GOUT. 

PjNE cup of finely-chopped cooked ham, one of grated bread- 
^ crumbs, two cups of hot mashed potatoes, one large table- 
spoonful of butter, three eggs, a pinch of cayenne; mix all well 
together; put a dessert-spoonful of butter into the chafing-dish. 
When hot, pour in the above mixture, cover, and let it remain 
about ten minutes. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 



log 



Petit Pois. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add a can of French peas ; season with pepper 
and salt. Let them cook for about ten minutes. — Caterer. 



Potato Soufflee, 

1\ /riX a pint of mashed pototoes with half a cup of thick cream 
^^-^ and the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot put in 
the potatoes in large tablespoonfuls. When brown on one side, 
turn, brown the other, and serve immediately. 



Potatoes a la Lyonnaise, 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter into the chafing-dish; when 
-^ mehed, add two or three onions, chopped fine ; cook two 
or three minutes ; then add half a dozen cold-boiled potatoes, 
sliced, well seasoned with pepper and salt ; saute a nice light 
brown. Just before serving, add a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley. 



Potatoes Rechauffe. 

/^UT half a dozen cold-boiled potatoes into slice; put in the 
^ chafing-dish with a tablespoonful of butter and half a pint 
of cream ; let it simmer about five minutes and then stir in a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, and the beaten yolk of two eggs ; let it simmer (not boil) 
and serve hot. 



Lima Beans. 

ADD to a pint of young Lima beans, previously boiled and 
seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, half a pint of freshly 

gathered mushrooms. Put a tablespoonful of butter in the 

chafing-dish; when melted, add beans and mushrooms with half 

a gill of cream ; let it all simmer for about ten minutes, and 
serve hot. — Caterer. 



Fried Tomatoes, ■ 

/^UT fine, ripe, solid tomatoes in halves; dredge them with 
^ pepper, salt, and sifted cracker dust. Put three tablespoon- 
jfuls of butter in the chafing-dish ; when very hot, cook the 
tomatoes on both sides and serve. A little onion juice is an 
improvement. 



Tomatoes and Mushrooms, 

A DD to a pint of tomatoes, previously cooked, half a pint 
-'- -^ of mushrooms, a heaping tablespoonful of bread crumbs, a 
tablespoonful of butter; season with pepper and salt, and simmer 
for a few minutes, long enough to cook the mushrooms, and 
serve on slices of buttered toast. — Caterer. 



Saute of Mushrooms. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly. 
When smooth, add salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, a little mushroom ketchup, and half a pint of boiling 
water, in which a tablespoonful of fluid beef has been dissolved. 
Add the mushrooms, and boil until tender. 



Meadow Mushroom. 

IN selecting this mushroom crisp and heavy ones should be 
chosen in preference to light and soft ones, as being less likely 
to become leathery in cooking. Cut the mushroom across and 
remove the stem ; put in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; put in the mushrooms, and cook them at the lowest possi- 
ble temperature from fifteen to twenty minutes, or even longer ; a 
great heat destroys the flavor. 



Puff Ball, 

rANE of the most valuable of the edible mushrooms. Remove 
^ the outer skin, cut in slices half an inch thick, season them 
with pepper and salt, dip the slices in the yolk of an egg and then 
in finely-sifted cracker-dust ; put three tablespoonfuls of butter in 
the chafing-dish, and when very hot fry slowly, and serve 
immediately. 



Agaricus Campestris. 

PUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and half a 
pound of the mushrooms, cut in thin sHces ; cook slowly for 
fifteen minutes, then add a gill of thick cream, pepper, and salt, 
and cook slowly ten minutes longer. Serve immediately. Prepare 
the mushrooms by peeling ; the stem can be scraped, cut in thin 
slices, and cooked with the rest. 



Fairy Ring Champignon. 

r)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of 
^ flour ; when smooth, add half a pint of thick cream ; when 
hot, add a pint of the mushrooms and stew slowly from fifteen to 
twenty minutes ; add pepper and salt, and serve hot on toast. 



Cantharellus Cibarius. 

Q ELECT this mushroom with care, avoiding a deleterious species 
'^ called cantharellus aurantiacus. Put in the chafing-dish three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, a pint of mushrooms, pepper, and salt. 
Cut the mushrooms across, remove the stems, and cook very 
slowly. 



■Mushrooms with Bacon. 



FRY five or six slices of bacon in the chafing-dish. When 
nearly done add a dozen good-sized mushrooms and fry them 
slowly until they are cooked. In this process they will absorb all the 
fat of the bacon, and, with the addition of a little salt and pepper, 
will be found most appetizing. 



Mushrooms a la Provencale, 

QTEEP for two hours in some salt and pepper a pint of mush- 
^ rooms. Put in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter, a 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a little finely -chopped parsley, and a 
teaspoonful of grated onion. When the mushrooms are ready cook 
them slowly five or ten minutes. 



Macaroni aij gratin, 

T)UT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and half a 
pint of grated cheese ; now add a pint of well-boiled, well- 
drained macaroni, and stir all together until the cheese is melted, 
when serve at once. 



Tomato Puree and Macaroni. 

"niRY a clove of garlic or a few slices of onion in two tablespoon- 
■*- fuls of butter ; when brown, remove the garlic and stir in a 
tablespoonful of flour; stir in a small can of tomato pur6e, and 
when thoroughly heated add a cupful of macaroni, which has been 
previously cooked, and half a pint of finely-minced cold veal. Stir 
constantly until it is thoroughly heated and well mixed. Season 
with salt and pepper. 



Dried Beef with Eggs, 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish, with 
two gills of cream or milk, and a quarter of a pound of 
dried beef, shaved very thin ; let it simmer for about ten 
minutes, then stir in rapidly three or four eggs; serve as soon 



Eggs a la Jardiniere, 

PUT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter; 
when melted, add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms 
or truffles. Season with pepper and salt ; add four or six eggs, 
beaten slightly. Stir constantly, until set, about two minutes, 
and serve hot, on toast. 



Omelet, 

BEAT three fresh eggs shghtly with two tablespoonfuls ot 
cream ; season with pepper and sak. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in the chafing-dish, and when very hot, pour in the 
egg, holding the dish by the handle in the left hand ; scrape 
up rapidly from all parts of the pan the cooked egg, letting the 
liquid portion follow the knife. The moment it is sufficiently 
cooked, which will be in forty to fifty seconds, slip the knife 
under the left edge and fold the omelet over rapidly, gently, 
and neatly to the side of the pan opposite the handle. Have 
ready a warm oval plate, reverse it on the pan, turn pan and 
plate over quickly together, and the omelet will rest on the 
plate. 



Tomato Omelet. 

1\ /TAKE the omelet according to directions on the preceding 
-^ -^ page. Just before pouring it into the pan, add very 
solid pieces of tomato, cut in small dice, over which a little 
onion has been grated. Season with a little cayenne. 



Curried Eggs, 

T)UT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; mince 
•^ two small onions very fine, and cook until they begin to 
brown ; stir in two dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, mix well, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring quickly all the 
time ; then add half a pint of veal or chicken stock, or the 
same quantity of boiling water, in which a tablespponful of 
fluid beef has been disolved. When the mixture has simmered 
gently for about ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of cream 
and six hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices. When well heated 
through, serve. 



Fricasseed Eggs. 

PUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add a tablespoonful of flour, stirring constantly, a 
sprig of parsley, cut fine, five or six minced mushrooms, half a 
pint of white stock, veal or chicken, or the same quantity of 
cream, in which a dessert-spoonful of fluid beef has been dis- 
solved. Simmer about five minutes, and add six hard-boiled 
eggs, cut in thick slices ; boil up once, and serve hot. 



132 



Eggs a l'Espagnole, 

T)UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of the best olive oil, 
-^ in which cook a clove of garlic, chopped very fine ; add 
three sliced tomatoes, half a dozen sliced mushrooms, two or 
three slices of smoked beef tongue, minced fine. When very 
hot, add three or four eggs, beaten slightly, stirring rapidly all 
the time. As soon as the eggs are set it is ready to serve. 



Creamed Eggs, 

CUT hard-boiled eggs in quarters, lengthwise ; make a rich, white 
sauce in the usual way — two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
of flour ; when smooth, add half a pint of cream and half a pint of 
milk or white stock, a little finely-chopped parsley, and a dash of 
nutmeg ; put in the eggs, and, when thoroughly heated, serve. 



Eggs a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

T^UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
-^ hot, stir in three or four onions, cut very fine, and cook 
until a Hght brown. Add a tablespoonful of l^our, stirring con- 
stantly, a small cupful of cream or milk, a little finely chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Add six hard-boiled eggs, cut in 
quarters. When hot, serve. 



Scrambled Eggs, 

T)UT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, pepper and 
-^ salt ; when hot, add a gill of cream and six eggs. Stir 
constantly for two or three minutes. Serve immediately on 
hot toast. 



136 



Scrambled Eggs en huile, 

PUT into the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil; 
add eight drops of celery extract, a dash of cayenne, a little 
salt, a tablespoonful of parsley, chopped fine, and a teaspoonful of 
onion-juice. Stir until well blended and hot, and then add six eggs, 
which have been already broken but not beaten. Stir constantly 
until they are well cooked, and serve at once. 



• Ham and Eggs, 

pUT two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish; when 
melted, add half a pound of lean, boiled ham, cut in 
small dice, a little pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped chives or 
onions, add six, eight or ten eggs. Stir constantly until the 
eggs are cooked. — Caterer. 



138 



Welsh Rarebit. 

PUT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
nearly melted, add a pound and a half of fresh cheese, 
cut in small dice, a teaspoonful of dry mustard, a little cay- 
enne; stir all the time; add a small amount of ale or cream 
to prevent burning. Keep adding ale or cream, about half a 
pint in all. Serve hot on toast. 



Cheese Fondu. 

PUT a tablespoonful of butter in the chafing-dish ; when 
melted, add a cup of fresh milk and a cup of fine bread 
crumbs, two cups of grated cheese, a salt-spoonful of dry 
mustard, a little cayenne. Stir constantly, and add, just before 
serving, two eggs, beaten light. 



Cheese Crouton, 



PUT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a 
tablespoonful of butter, half a pint of grated cheese, a salt- 
spoonful of paprica, and half a salt-spoonful of salt. Work these 
ingredients to a smooth paste and spread on toasted bread or 
crackers. 



Cheese Souffle. 

T)UT in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter and half 
a pint of grated cheese (any good cheese will do) ; add two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. When 
melted, stir in three well-beaten eggs. Stir continually until the 
eggs are cooked, and serve immediately. 



Paprica Welsh Rarebit, 

T}UT in the chafing-dish a tablespoonful of butter; when melted, 
-'- add a pound of grated cheese (American cream) ; as the cheese 
melts, stir in gradually about a gill and a half of ale, or, if preferred, 
rich milk ; add a dessert-spoonful of paprica. Mix well, and serve 
very hot on toast. 



Macaroni a la Gruyere, 

"QUT into the chafing-dish with two tablespoonfuls of butter half 
^ a pint of grated cheese (half Gruyere and half Parmesan), a 
salt-spoonful of white pepper, a gill of cream, and a very little nut- 
meg ; salt to taste; now add a pint of cold, well-boiled macaroni. 
Stir well, let simmer for five minutes, and serve hot. 



Beignets de Pommes. 

n~'AKE some soft, tart apples, peel and remove the pips ; cut 
-^ in round, thin slices ; plunge them in a mixture of brandy, 
lemon juice and sugar, until they have acquired the taste ; drain 
them, dust them with flour. Put in the chafing-dish three table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; when very hot, fry the slices on both sides, 
sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon, and serve very hot. 



Bread Saute. 

r^UT the crust from a thick shce of bread; put in the chafing- 
^ dish two tablespoonfuls of butter ; when very hot, brown 
the bread on both sides, take it out, and put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated ham, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and a 
gill of cream ; season with cayenne pepper. Mix all well 
together, and when very hot spread the mixture on the toast. 



146 



Warren's Prune Toast. 

/^UT the crust from rather a thick sHce of Vienna bread; put 
^ in the chafing-dish two tablespoonfuls of butter, and, when 
very hot, brown the bread on both sides. Pour over this half 
a pound of Warren's Prunes, which have been previously boiled 
long enough to enable you to remove the pits. Sweeten to 
taste. Add a glass of sherry, and serve with cream. 



Creamed Anchovy Toast. 

SPREAD six slices of toast from which the crust has been cut 
first with butter and then with ancho\T paste ; put in the 
chafing-dish half a pint of cream ; put in the toast, and baste con- 
stantly with the cream until very hot. 



148 



Caviare, 

PUT in the chafing-dish four tablespoonfuls of cream ; when hot, 
add the contents of a can or box of caviare; when thoroughly 
heated, serve very hot on nicely-browned slices of toast with quarters 
of lemon. 



Wheatena for Breakfast, 

"P)OUR, very slowly, one measure of Health Food Company's 
-^ Wheatena into six measures of slightly salted, actively 
boiling water. Boil one minute ; serve with cream and sugar. 
If to be served cold, use seven measures of water instead of 
six, and pour the mush into moistened moulds. Turn out 
when cold. It can also be cut in slices and fried in butter 
in the chafing-dish. I cannot praise too highly this delicious 
cereal. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

||i|l|!|in|iii|ii|'ii|i 





