LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



ChapL^.'7-/(^right No 

Slielf^l:^I5_,l5^ 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 




•»t^ 




• PRize 



©(DK 






x.'-l 



lniHWt— III IliT I 11 m wllili— IH~l^ 

BROOKLYN. ^^ 

The Alex. Campbell Milk Company, -^ 

(New Yorik Dairy Co.) 
802 Fulton St. Q 4-6 Bond St. 
63 Lafayette Ave. FX 9 Clinton St. 



Copyrighted 1896 by The Alex. Campbell Milk Company. 



^othingLike 'l*'^,'}!^^^ 
A Practical Test. 

^^W 4^^ 4^^ 

We know that the milk we supply is 

ABSOLUTELY 
PURE, 

and not to be surpassed for quality, but we 
want you to know it. We have therefore 
opened new and well-appointed 

OAII^y bUNCH ROO^S, 

centrally located, at 4-6 BOND STREET, 
where with a cup of delicious coffee, tea or 
chocolate, our milk and rich cream can be 
tested. 

Orders for daily service received at the 
desk, or may be sent to 

The Alex^ Campbell Milk Co^ 

(New Yofk Dairy Co.) 

802 Fulton Street, 9 Clinton Street, 

Working Model Dairy, Ice Cream Rooms and Soda Spa, 

63 Lafayette Avenue. 



AO 

M 



The 
Alex. Campbell Milk Company's 

PRIZE MILK COOK BOOK. 




INTRODUCTION. 

HE KNOWLEDGE of the importance of a pure milk 
supply has come to be so general that it seems 
superfluous to mention arguments for the same. 
Housekeepers, especially those who have young 
children or invalids dependent on a milk diet, no 
longer need to be warned against infection in milk 
carrying the germs of tuberculosis, typhoid fever, etc. 

State law has, to some extent, come to the protection of the 
public by requiring that milk shall not fall below a fair stand- 
ard, and by punishing flagrant violations of sanitary precau- 
tions. But in this, as in other matters connected with daily 
life, there is a vast difference between keeping within the limits 
of the law and conducting a business on principles which seek 
to utilize every fresh discovery of science tliat will improve the 
article and insure its purity. 

Further advantages follow where enterprise adopts the 
latest and most improved machinery, and capital is liberally, in- 
vested to secure the most complete facilities, and finally where 
the whole Is under the management, control and suprvision of 



those who have made the subject a matter of close and conscien- 
tious study for years. 

Of course it is something to "comply with the law," when it 
is so frequently and grossly violated, but it is certainly com- 
mendable to have been the means of teaching the community 
that such laAv was necessary, and by practice as well a,s teach- 
ing to have shown the urgent need of legislation which should 
comipel the ignorant or unscrupulous to take precautions which 
intelligence and science had discovered were of vital impor- 
tance. 

This is what the Alex, Campbell Milk Company has done, 
not only for Brooklyn ,but for the country. It was their efforts 
which first directed serious attention to the subject, and, long 
before the general public realized the necessity for a pure and 
rigidly supervised milk supply, they had secured it and were 
guarding against minor dangers of which, even now, the law 
takes no cognizance. 

The Alex, Campbell Milk Company, known at its inaugura- 
tion as the "New York Dairy Company," holds a place of im- 
portance in the sanitary and hygienic history of the State, 
Where popular domestic interests are suffering from abuse it is 
rare to find practical business men join forces with men of 
science and freely invest their capital to give the work of re- 
formation an impetus on purely commercial lines. Among the 
names composing the promoters of this company may be men- 
tioned Henry E. Pellew, Cornelius R. Agnew, M, D., John P, 
Haines (now president of the .Society for the Prevention of 
Cruelty to Animals), J, W, Drexel, Timothy F, Allen, M. D., 
and Mason C. AVeld, 

This notable list was a guarantee of the integrity and ear- 
nest purpose of the organization. Alexander Campbell, the 
president of the present company, was a director, as well as 
General Manager, 

In its first letter to the public, issued in 1888, attention was 
called to the serious dangers arising from the manner in which 
the vast bulk of the milk supplied to cities was received, trans- 
ported and delivered, declaring with truth that it was "not only 
unwholesome (the milk), but productive of diseases of a perma- 
nent character, as tuberculosis, etc.," and dealt strong, and well- 
merited blows at those who asisisted in the spread of disease by 
careless, poor, or unsanitary housing of cattle, who willingly 
endangered the public health by the use of inferior cattle-feed, 



and in many other ways, too often arising from an endeavor to 
make money at any hazard, menaced the well-being of the com- 
munity. 

The various members of the company, apart from the- firm 
belief they had in the financial feasibility of the enterprise, 
were enthusiasts. They knew that the movement must ulti- 
mately prove not only of local but of National importance. They 
were not mere theorists. Mr. Alex. Campbell had had years' of 
experience, and, indeed, to his efforts may be ascribed the foun- 
dation of the enterprise. 

The medical directors had known of the abuses, and had 
written and spoken of them in public. Mr. Mason C. AVeld had 
made a profound study of cattle and was an acknowledged au- 
thority on all subjects bearing on the supply of milk in the 
great centers. Later he was sent by the Hon, Hugh McCul- 
lough (Secretary of the Treasury), to the Channel Islands to 
study and report on the famous breeds of cattle there, and to 
purchase and import to this country choice specimens. So suc- 
cessful was he in the accomplishment of the commission that 
on subsequent occasions other prominent Americans engaged 
him for similar services. 

The public sadly needed education on the importance of a 
pure milk supply. They had tacitly accepted the situation from 
sheer ignorance of the daily risk run. Diseases prevalent at the 
time were traced to any source but the right one. No one sus- 
pected that danger could lurk in millv, which in its pure state 
was and is considered one of the most delicious and health- 
giving articles of food. 

Not only were large sums of money spent in educating the 
public, through advertising mediums but in establishing the re- 
quisite facilities. 

To this company is due the conception of receiving stations, 
the first one in tlie United States having been built by them 
at a cost of $10,000. It was centrally located in Orange County, 
N. Y., one of tlie richest dairy centers in the country ,and was 
equipped with eveiy convenience for the receiving, testing, cool- 
ing and transportation of milk in an absolutely pure condition. 

That initial "receiving station" proved entirely successful 
and no less than five others have since been established and are 
now in operation. 

The Alex. Campbell Milk Company was also the first to in- 
troduce the bottling of milk, w^hich has, perhaps, done as much 



as anything to lessen danger of contagion, as the milk is perfect- 
ly preserved from contamination during transit, and also from 
all atmospheric Influences. 

Too much stress cannot be placed on the fact that the milk 
is bottled in the country. Much of that used in our great cities 
is shipped in bulk, and the bottling is done in stables and sheds. 
This greatly increases the danger of contamination as will 
be readily seen. 

The company has at the present time five receiving sta- 
tions which contain all modern appliances and the most im- 
proved machinery These stations are so distributed that each 
is in the heart of a milk producing section, and so located that 
the freshly-drawn milk may be received with the last possible 
disturbance or loss of time. At these stations the milk is re- 
ceived, tested, cooled and bottled. Refrigerator cars, which in 
each instance run to the doors, transport the hermetically sealed 
jars by the Erie Railroad direct to .Jersey City, from whence 
they are brought in large, specially constructed vans to this 
city, and immediately distributed in the company's wagons. 

From first to last the milk is under the supervision of ex- 
perts, and care and attention can hardly go farther. 

From what has been said it will be seen that without the ut- 
most care the bottling of milk does not insure its purity. It 
must be pure /before it is bottled, the bottles must be clean, the 
bottling must be done in the country, far removed from con- 
taminating influence. Otherwise, if, as we have stated milk is 
shipped to the cities in bulk and there bottled amidst foul sur- 
roundings, and after hours of delay, a new element of danger 
is introduced. 

At the receiving stations the important operation of cleaning 
bottles is conducted. To be thoroughly etticient this calls for the 
use of elaborate and expensive machinery, and for constant 
care and personal supervision. 

To conclude, thirty years of patient study and work with 
the end in constant view of supplying nothing but absolutely 
pure milk have brought their reward, and it is with genuine sat- 
isfaction that the company returns thanks to its thousands of 
patrons not only for their generous support, but for their con- 
stantly expressed appreciation. 

The company will, in the future, as in the past, do all that 
lies in its power to perfect the system which is, even now, un- 
equaled by that of any other firm. 



THE PRIZE CONTEST AND THE BOOK. 



The recent Prize Contest, of which the present work is the 
outcome was a notable instance of that enterprise which has 
distinguished the Alex. Campbell Milli Company throughout its 
entire history. Thoroughly commercial in spirit, its members 
are keenly alive to the fact that — 

"Worth to be recognized must first be known," 
And therefore believe in legitimate methods of advertising. It 
is conceded by all that its efforts in this direction have been 
thoroughly original yet dignified. This latest and greatest, ef- 
fort will undoubtedly be appreciated by thousands of good 
housewives, to whom the Cook Book will prove a constant de- 
light owing to its remerkable merits, and by introducing delic- 
ious and inexpensive dishes into the household will do much to 
benefit the community, f or— 

"All nobleness of heart in man. 
All goodness that this life is rich in, 

From Beer-Sheba unto Dan, 
Draws inspiration from the kitchen." 

Cook books there were without end, but none, so far as is 
known, on the present plan, one devoted to the uses of milk and 
cream. 

The argument was that in every well-regulated household 
is to be found one notable dish. Here it is "Aunt Jane's Salad." 
there it is "Margery's Tea Cakes." Before "Aunt Jane" and 
"Margery" even Delmonico must retire when it comes to a 
question of salad and tea cakes. To collect these domestic cul- 
inary triumphs and crowd them between the two covers of a 
book suggested an increase of domestic comfort quite delightful 
to contemplate. Of course there may be a deftness in the pink 
fingers of Mistress Margery which ' cannot be ti*ansmitted 
through cold print, but "just how much of this and that goes in, 
and when and where" can be told, and then, if the cakes turn 
out heavy instead of light, that is not to be blamed to Margery 
for "the receipt was all right." 

To arouse sufficient interest a large sum of money was de- 
voted to the purpose and valuable prizes in gold were offered. 

The latitude allowed was very great, the only stipulation 
being that milk or cream should be called for in some manner in 
every receipt either in the making or serving. Recognizing the 
difficulty of discriminating accurately on the dainty difference 



between two receipts for the same confection the competition 
called for receipts in groups of three, and therefore none were 
judged alone. This was undoitbtedly the fairest and most satis- 
factory plan that could have been devised. 

No names or addresses were allowed to appear on the com- 
peting papers, and where anything of the kind occurred it was 
carefully obliterated before being handed to the committee, and 
not until after the final decisions were made were the names of 
the fortunate ones known. The committee was composed of 
three well-known ladies. Miss Conroe, who is at the head of the 
Domestic Science Department of the Pratt Institute, Mrs. Chris- 
tine Terhune Herrick, (a daughter of Marion Harland,) a writer 
and lecturer on chafing dish cookery, and', Mrs. Agnes Bailey 
Ormsbee, author of "The House Comfortable," and other essays 
on household subjects. 

The awards were published December 24, 1895 and the 
money immediately distributed. 

The mass of material received was overwhelming. Had all 
beed published the book would have attained the bulk of a 
Webster's Unabridged Dictionary. The work of selecting the 
best has taken months, and while in comparison to the whole 
number of receipts received thoise published is small, yet they 
represent the cream, and as such will be of immense value. 

The first edition, though large, will soon be exhausted. To 
guard against possible disappointment we therefore notify our 
friends and patrons that if copies are required orders should be 
sent as soon as possible. 

ITEMS ABOUT THE CONTEST. 

Najturally many receipts were duplicated. Thus, for in- 
stance, had all those for "Plain Rice Pudding" been printed 
they would have filled a book of nearly the size of the present 
volume. 

Plain rice pudding, while much esteemed by many, loses 
its charm if indulged in to the exclusion of all other forms of 
food. A book devoted solely to plain rice puddings would not in- 
duce the friendly critic to say: "This is a work of absorbing 
interest— not a dull line anywhere— the attention of the reader 
is held until the last word is reached." And to discriminate be- 
tween some hundreds of receipts for "Plain Rice Pudding" is 
no easy matter. Probably a few hundreds of those discarded 
are just as good as those published, but at least they are no bet- 

6 



ter. In short the selections made are, in the opinion of the 
committee and editor the best. This does not mean that many 
thousands for which we have no space are not good. 

Broolilyn is certainly a city of good cooks, and the majority 
of them, as will be seen, know how to impart their knowledge 
well and clearly. It was a matter of wonder to note the general 
neatness and taste displayed in the preparation of the receipts. 
Many of them were exceedingly clever from a literary point 
of view. One especially, ^hich from its length has unfortu- 
nately had to be omitted, gave an admirable and clear cooking 
receipt in dramatic form, without absolutely mentioning 
weights or quantities. It was charmingly and ludicrously told. 

Several contributors sent poems. The following is espec- 
ially good : 

Eight=hundred=and-two Fulton Street. 



When little Olive lay in bed, 
"I want some camel's milk!'' she said; 
"Some camel's milk, like Flossie had, 
It made her well when she was bad." 
But mamma sadly shook her head; 
"We can't buy camel's milk," she said . 

"Here's Flossie! Floss, tell mamma — quick! 

You did have camel's milk when sick!" 

And Flossie laughed, and shook her curls— 

"Of course! It's good for boys and girls. 

It's Campbell's milk, so fresh and sweet; 

The office is on Fulton Street." ZILL. 

Another which we commend to the attention of all mothers, 
emphasizes the importance of providing absolutely pure milk 
for children. It is now known by the medical fraternity that an 
alarming annual mortality among infants and young children 
is due to poor, stale or impure milk. It is a subject which should 
havo the serious consideration of parents, and we would urgent- 
ly advise the use of the Alex. Campbell Milk Company's milk, 
which is guaianteed to be absolutely pure. This is the poem: 

A Receipt to Cure a Sick Boy. 



Now mothers you have told me how 
To make good things to eat, 

I have a message for you all, 
And also a receipt. 



Don't feed your baby watered milk, 

Such as you've used before, 
But let them feast on "Campbell's" milk 

I-fft at your basement door. 

My little boy is four years old, 

His cheeks are rosy red. 
He drinks a quart of "Campt'ell's" milk 

Before he goes to bed. 

Maybe you'd like to know his name, 

We call him "Our Leand-^r/' 
It we had known about the milk. 

We'd named him "Alexander." 

My grateful heart is full to-night, 

I can't forget the past, 
I'll buy three bottles every day. 

So long as milk shall last. 

MARY PERRY. 



It would hardly be believed in how many receipts for bread, 
cakes and pies the writers had althogether omitted flour. One 
lady wrote that she could make "elegant bread and would like 
the $100 prize." A few gave no name or address and their con- 
tributions could not be entered for competition. 

We believe that but one opinion can be expressed concern- 
ing the book itself, and we hazard the opinion that in no work of 
its kind and size can be found such a wealth of valuable and re- 
liable information. 

It will be noticed that Campbell's milk is called for in every 
case. This was insisted on by the vast majority of contributors 
for the reason that it is to be relied on and is absolutely pure 
and sweet. Much of the success in cookery depends on the qual- 
ity of the milk. 

Orders for the daily service of milk and cream should be 
sent by postal card to 

The Alex, Campbell Milk Company, 

802 Fulton Street, 

Brooklyn. 
Telephone No, 44 Brooklyn, 



SOUPS. 



The advantage of milk soups is that they can be easily 
and quickly made either with or without stock. Almost any 
vegetable can be used, or combinations to suit individual tastes. 
Care must be taken to have perfectly fresh milk or the mixture 
will curdle. Less salt is required than for soups made with 
water. White pepper should always be used. Never put butter 
into the soup while cooking. Drop a lump into the tureen just 
before pouring the soup into it. By this means the butter be- 
comes thoroughly incorporated with the milk and does not 
spread itself immediately in an oily mass upon the surface. 

White stock is the only kind suitable for milk soups. It Is 
made from veal bones or from the trimmings of poultry, includr 
ing the feet. Celery should be the principal vegetable, though 
carrots may be used sparingly. Arrow root is better than 
corn starch for dainty soups. 

The proper consistency for white soups is that they shall 
adhere slightly to the spoon. 

Artichoke Soup. 

1/4 lb. lean salt pork or bacon. 1 pint of Campbell's milk, 

lightly smoked. Salt, cayenne pepper. 

2 stalks of celery. 2 teaspoonfuls of granulated 
1 white turnip. sugar. 

1 red onion. 2 quarts of water. 

3 ounces of butter. 1 coffee cupful of white stock. 
1/4 peck of artichokes. 

Cut the meat and vegetables into dice. Put a small lump of 
butter into a frying pan, heat it thoroughly, turn the meat and 
vegetables into it and let them color. Stir to prevent burning. 
Wash and peel the artichokes as you would potatoes, cut them 
into thin slices. Put them into the soup pot with half the stock 
and the contents of the frying pan. Let them stew gently until 
reduced to a pulp. Then add the remainder of the stock and let 
it simmer for five minutes, skimming well. Strain through a 
colander and set it back to keep warm. Have ready the milk, 
heated to boiling point and pour it and the soup together. Crou- 
tons, which are small pieces of bread fried in butter, should 
be placed in the tureen just before the soup is poured into it. 

9 



Asparagus Cream Soup. 

1 bunch of asparagus. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 pint of water. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. V2 saltapoonful of pepper. 

1 tablespoonful of chopped V2 cupful of Campbell's sweet 

onion. cream. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Wash and scrape asparagus, cut heads from stalks and set 
aside. Cut stalks in half -inch pieces and cook until very soft 
in a pint of boiling salted water. Mash thoroughly in the water 
in which it was boiled and strain, add asparagus liquor. Cook 
butter and flour together in small saucepan until smooth, but 
not brown, and stir into boiling soup. Season with salt and 
pepper; boil two minutes, add cream and strain into the tureen. 
Small squares of buttered toast are an acceptable addition. 
Serve very hot. 

The asparagus heads may be cooked in boiling salted water 
until tender, strained and served with melted butter, as a vege- 
table with roast or fish. 

Barley Soup. 

4 quarts of water in which 1 pinch of celery seed. 

mutton has been boiled. 1 tablespoonful of corn starch 

1 large white onion. 1 cup of Campbell's cream. 
V2 cup of pearl barley. 

Take the liquor from boiling a leg of mutton, which is econ- 
omy, as 5'ou have beside your meat a delicious cream soup 
with very little cost. To about four quarts of the liquor add one 
large white onion, sliced thin, one-half cup of barley and a good 
pinch of celery seed. Let this boil about one and one-half 
hours. Just about five minutes before serving mix one table- 
spoonful of corn starch in one cup of milk; stir in slowly and 
let it boil for five minutes. 

Bean Soup. 

1 large cup of beans. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

1 large tomato. % pint of Campbell's cream. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. Season to taste. 

Wash beans and let them stand in cold water over night. 
Boil four hours in one quart of water. Boil tomato in same 
water fifteen minutes; strain through a sieve or colander, after 
which add sugar, milk and cream; boil fifteen minutes. 

Black Bean Soup. 

1 pint of black beans. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

1 tablespoonful of salt. 4 eggs. 

1/^ teaspoonful of black pepper 

Soak one pint of black beans over night; in the morning 
drain and cover freely with cold water. Boil fifteen minutes 
and add one teaspoonful of soda. Change the water and boil 
again ten minutes; drain and add one quart of cold water and 

10 



boil until the beans al'e soft, adding more water as tbis boils 
away. Rub through a sieve. Cook together one tablespoonful 
of butter and one tablespoonful of flour; to this add the hot 
bean soup, one tablespoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of 
pepper and a pinch of cayenne. Simmer ten minutes. Then add 
one pint of hot milk and four hard-boiled eggs, chopped flne. 

When ready to serve the soup is a chocolate color. It Is 
delicious in flavor. 

Bean Puree. 

1 quart of white dried beans. 1 tablespoonful of tapioca. 

2 carrots. 1 gill of Campbell's cream. 

2 turnips. 3 quarts of cold water. 

3 onions. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Soak the beans over night in cold water or place them in 
water ratlier hotter than tepid for at least four hours. Drain 
them and put them on in three quarts of cold water, letting it 
come to a boil and boil three hours. Then add the vegetables 
cut in quarters and the tapioca, previously soaked, and boil for 
two hours. After this strain through a hair sieve, pick out the 
vegetables, and press the beans with a wooden spoon into a soft 
pulp. Return them to the soup and stir a few times until thor- 
oughly mixed. Have the cream heated to boiling point; add 
pepper and salt; pour the mixtures together and let them boil 
up once before serving. 

Carrot Soup. 

New carrots. Flour. 

Butter. Campbell's milk. 

Boil the carrots until very soft. Mash them through a sieve. 
Put a lump of btitter into an enamel saucepan, dredge in a 
tablespoonful of flour, stir in the carrots and dilute with hot 
milk until of the right consistency. 

Celery Cream Soup. 

2 heads of celery. Chicken broth. 

4 ounces of butter. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 
Salt, white pepper, nutmeg". 

Take two heads of celery; cut away all the green part. Cut 
the stalks into pieces not more than an inch long, and parboil in 
water, with a little salt, for ten minutes. Then take them out 
and drain them and put into a saucepan with four ounces of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a little nutmeg. Cover and 
boil slowly until the celery is quite soft, then rub throtigh a 
colander. Mix the strained substance with two quarts of clear 
chicken broth, thickened with four ounces of flour, cooked in 
a little butter. Boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly, 
skim, and press through a fine sieve. Place it on the Are again, 
adding to it a pint of boiling milk, and a small piece of butter. 
Pour into the soup tureen over small croutons. 

n 



Celery Cream Soup. No. 2. 

1^ bunch (or three roots) of 1 heaping tablespoonful of 

celery. flour. 

1 pint of water. A piece of butter the size of 
1 quart of Campbell's milk. a large egg. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Cut the celery in small pieces and put into a stew pan, pour 
the water over them and boil for two hours, oi' until tender. 
About twenty minutes before dinner time put the milk in an- 
other, stew pan and let it come to the boiling point, then crush 
the celery and water through the colander into 1he milk. Next 
mix the butter and flour together and stir into the hot milk and 
let it thicken. It should be about as thick as heavy cream. 
Salt and strain into the tureen. Serve very hot. 

Celery Cream 5oup. No. 3. 

1 quart of chicken broth. 2 heads of celery. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. Salt and pepper. 

1 cupful of oatmeal. 

Put the milk to boil, pour in the oatmeal, let simmer on back 
of the stove. Grate the roots and white part of the celery and 
add to the milk; cook an hour, adding more milk if necessary. 
When done rub through a sieve and add the stock, previously 
strained. Salt and pepper to taste. This is a good healthful 
soup. 

Celestine Soup. 

V2 pint of pearl barley. Bunch of sweet herbs (mar- 

6 carrots. joram, summer savory). 

4 onions. i/4 tablespoonful of salt. 

8 cloves. Teacupful of Campbell's milk. 

y2 white turnip. • 4 quarts of water. 

Blade of mace. 

Wash the barley, put it into a large saucepan with the 
water and salt; boil; then put in the carrots, onions, celery and 
turnip cut into quarters, and the herbs and mace. Simmer with 
the lid on for six hours, after which strain through a fine hair 
sieve and return it again to the saucepan. As the simmering 
will have reduced the stock and left it too thick, add milk till 
the stock is of the consistency of cream. Shortly before the soup 
is served whisk up the yolks of the eggs with one-quarter pint 
of milk at the bottom of a warmed tureen, and when the soup 
is served whisk up the yolks of the eggs with one-quarter pint 
slowly at first to prevent curdling and rapidly stirring all the 
time. 

Variations.— A few boiled green peas or asparagus heads 
may be used. Cream instead of milk makes a richer soup. 

Chestnut Soup. 

% lb. of Spanish chestnuts. Salt, cayenne pepper, mace. 

Yz pint of CampbeH's cream. 1 quart of white stock. 

12 



Take the outer rind from the chestnuts and put them into 
a large pan of water, which heat gradually. As soon 
as this becomes too hot for the fingers to remain in 
it, take out the chestnuts, peel them quickly and im- 
merse them in cold water, wipe and weigh them. 
Now cover them with good stock and stew them gently for 
rather more than three-quarters of an hour, or until they break 
when touched with a fork; then drain, pound, and rub them 
through a fine sieve, reversed; add suflacient stock, a blade of 
mace, cayenne and salt, and stir it often until it boils, and put 
in the cream. The stock in which the chestnuts are boiled can 
be used for the soup, when its sweetness is not objected to, or 
it may, in part, be added to it, and the rule is that three-quarters 
of a pound of chestnuts should be given to each quart of soup. 

Chicken Cream Soup. 

A fowl. 2 eg-gs (yolks). 

An onion. 1 teacupful of Campbell's 

4 quarts of water. milk. 

Take an old fowl, divide it as for fricassee and put it into 
four quarts of cold water. Set it over a slow fire and let it 
boil until the liquid is reduced to two quarts. Take out the 
meat, cut off the whole of the breast and chop it very finely. 
Mix with it the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and press the 
mass through a colander. Cool the broth, skim it and strain. 
Then return broth and chicken to the pot, simmer for ten min- 
utes and just before putting it into the tureen add a teacupful 
of boiling milk. 

Chicken Cream Soup. No. 2. 

A chicken. Bunch of parsley. 

2 quarts of strong veal broth. Juice of a lemon. 

2 onions. Salt, pepper. 

Tablespoonful of Indian Teacupful of Campbell's 
curry. cream. 

Take two quarts of strong veal broth and season it by put- 
ting into it two onions chopped fine, a bunch of parsley, salt, 
and pepper. Cook till the vegetables are done. Strain it and 
have ready a chicken jointed as for a fricassee and skinned. Put 
it into the broth and add a tablespoonful of curry powder, 
stirring it well. Boil until the meat is tender. Just before serv- 
ing add the juice of a lemon and a teacupful of boiling cream. 
Rice should be served with this soup. 

Chicken Gumbo. 

A fowl. y2 can of tomatoes. 

% dozen slices of salt pork. Parsley. 

1 onion. 1 cupful of rice. 

2 quarts of boiling water. 1 cupful of Campbell's cream. 
1 quart of okra. Flour. 

Cut a fowl into moderate-sized pieces roll in flour, and put 
them in a porcelain kettle with half a dozen slices of salt pork 
and one onion, sliced. Fry them to a delicate brown, pour over 

13 



them two quarts of boiling water, and let the mixture simmer 
one hour. Then add one quart of okra (canned, if fresh cannot 
be procured) cut fine, half a can of tomatoes and some chopped 
parsley. Season with salt and pepper and cook until everythmg 
is tender. Add a cup of boiled rice and the sgime quantity of 
cream. Let it boil up once and serve. 

Cocoanut Soup. 

6 ounces of freshly grated Salt and cayenne pepper. 

cocoanut. ^/4 pint of Campbell's cream. 

6 ounces of rice flour. 3 quarts of white stock. 
^ teaspoonful of ground mace 

Be careful in grating the cocoanut not to allow any of the 
dark rind to go in. Be sure that the grater is clean or the deli- 
cate flavor of the soup will be lost. Allow two ounces of cocoa- 
nut for each quart of stock. Simmer for on^ hour, and strain, 
and thicken with the rice fiouf: Heat the cream to boiling 
point and add to the stock g^tly. Let it s/tand one minute and 
serve. 

Corn Soup. 

1 dozen ears or 1 can of green 1 tablespoonful of flour, 
corn. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

Slit the grains of corn lengthwise with a silver knife and 
scrape the cobs as clean as possible. If canned corn be used 
drain the liquor from it and let the vegetable stand uncovered 
f oi^at least an hour in an earthen or enameled dish. With green 
corn, put the cobs into the pot with just enough water to cover 
them and let them boil ten minutes. Strain the water and re- 
tain one quart for the soup. Heat the milk to boiling point and 
add it gradually to the water. Then put in the corn and after 
it has cooked fifteen minutes thicken it with the flour, into 
which the butter has been well kneaded. 

Variations.— Cream may be used instead of milk, in which 
case but half the quantity is required, and a half -pint more 
water is added. 

Witli milk the well-beaten whites of two eggs may be stirred 
into the soup and allowed to cook just a moment before the 
soup is poured into the tureen. 

Cucumber Soup. 

2 or 3 fresh cucumbers. 1 gill of Campbell's cream. 
Small lump of butter. 1 quart of white stock. 

2 eggs (yolks). Bunch of pot herbs. 

Pare the cucumbers, quarter them and take out the seeds. 
Cut them into thin slices, sprinkle with salt and allow them to 
stand half an hour. Put tlie butter into an enameled saucepan 
and when it is hot, add the cucumbers. Let them warm but 
not brown and pour the stock over them. Add the herbs and 
seasoning and boil forty-five minutes. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs thoroughly, incorporate them with the cream, add to the 
soup just a moment before removing from the fire. 

14 



Egg Soup. 



Veal stock. 
Turnip. 
Onion. 
Carrots. 
5 eggs. 



Thyme. 

Lemon juice. 

Gill of Campbell's cream. 

Salt and pepper. 



Take good stock from a knuckle of veal or beef bones, add 
one turnip, one onion, two carrots, a little lemon juice, a very 
little thyme, and a little celeiy. Boil all together six hours; 
strain, set in a cool place until the next day, when all the grease 
has formed on top, and then take it all off carefully. When 
ready to prepare it for dinner, heat it, add a little thickening of 
rolled cracker or flour, and then to three quarts of this stock 
add the yolks of five eggs, one gill of cream, pepper and salt to 
suit the taste. Drop the yolks in whole. Let them cook a few 
minutes. Serve hot. 



Flemish Soup. 



1 turnip. 
1 carrot (small). 
3 stalks of celery. 
6 spring onions. 

1 head of asparagus. 
% pint of peas. 

2 ounces of butter. 



4 eggs (yolks). 

V2 pint of Campbell's cream 

or milk. 
Salt. 

1 lump of sugar. 

2 quarts of stock or water. 



Chop the vegetables very fine. Having melted the butter in 
an enameled saucepan, turn the vegetables into it and pour over 
them a teacupful of stock or water. Stew gently for one hour. 
Add the remainder of the stock or water and simmer for an- 
other hour. The cream having been heated to a boiling point 
and the well-beaten yolks of the eggs added to it, it should be 
strained through a hair sieve. Take the soup off the fire, turn 
the eggs and cream into it and stir continually until the mix- 
ture is nearly at boiling point. Season with salt and add the 
sugar. 

Milk Soup. 



2 quarts of Campbell's milk. 
1 teaspoonful of ground cin- 
namon. 
4 thin slices of stale bread. 



3 teaspoonfuls of granulated 

sugar. 
6 eggs (yolks). 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 



Put the milk into a double boiler or farina kettle Avith the 
salt, cinnamon and sugar. Lay the bread in a deep dish, cover 
it with cold milk and place it at the side or back of the stove 
where it will get warm but will not cook. Add the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs to the milk in the boiler and stir till it thickens. 
Then pour it over the bread and serve immediately. This is an 
excellent dish for an invalid. 

riushroom Soup. 



12 large mushrooms. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

1 onion, 

3 cloves. 



2 blades of mace. 

V2 teaspoonful of salt. 

V2 teaspoonful of arrowroot. 

Pepper and pounded mace. 



15 



Put the trimmings and stalks only of the mushrooms into a 
saucepan with the milk, onion (with cloves stuck in it), mace and 
salt. Simmer for two hours, strain it, and put back into the 
saucepan. When boiling stir in the arrowroot, which has been 
mixed with a tablespoonful of cold milk, add the pepper and 
pounded mace. A tablespoonful of cream is a great improve- 
ment. This quantity of soup is enough for three persons. 

Normandy Soup, 

1 knuckle of veal. 1 quart of Campbell's cream. 

1 quart of white button onions 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
4 quarts of cold water. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
y^ of small loaf of bread. Salt and pepper. 

Put veal in the soup kettle with onions and water, let sim- 
mer slowly for two hours; then add the bread, cut in slices. Let 
simmer slowly two hours more. Remove the knuckle and press 
ingredients through a sieve. Rub butter and flour together to a 
smooth paste, stir into the boiling soup, and constantly 
until it thickens. Add the cream, salt and pepper and serve. 
This soup is delicious. 

Onion Soup. 

4 to 6 onions, red white or Small bunch of parsley. 

yellow, as preferred. Span- 2 tablespoonfuls of corn 
ish onions are excellent. starch. 

2 quarts of water, or ly^ pints 3 ounces of butter. 

of water and one cupful of 1 quart of Campbell's Jinlk 
stock. 

Cut the onions into short, thin strips. Put a small lump of 
butter into a frying pan, heat it thoroughly and turn the onions 
into it, letting them remain until they have turned to a golden 
yellow. On no account must they be allowed to brown, much 
less blacken. Empty the contents of the pan into a large pot, 
pour in the water, or water and stock. Add the parsley, finely 
cut. Boil the onions till they are soft. With a moderate fire 
this will take about two hours. Half an hour before serving, 
place the milk over the fire. Dissolve the cornstarch in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, stir it into the milk and let it re- 
main till lit thickens. It should not take more than ten minutes, 
but must not be allowed to boil. Pour the two mixtures (the 
onions, stock and parsley and the milk) together, let them stand 
about three minutes over the fire, then pour them into the 
tureen. It may be strained through a colander if preferred. 
When no stock is used three ounces of butter should be placed 
in the tureen before the soup is poured into it. 

Variations.— Two stalks of celery may be substituted for the 
parsley. 

Cream may be used instead of milk, in which case no butter 
is required except for frying the onions. The proportions would 
be a coffeecupful of cream to two quarts of water. 

It is allowable to add a teaspoonful of granulated sugar to 
any kind of milk soup. 

IG 



Parsnip Soup. 

2 parsnips. Salt and cayenne pepper. 

2 ounces of butter. V2 cupful of Campbell's cream 

1 quart of white stock. or 1 cupful of milk. 

Slice the parsnips and having melted the butter in an enam- 
eled saucepan put the vegetable in and cook slowly until quite 
tender. Add a pint of stock and boil for one-half hour. Strain, 
add the remainder of the stock, then the milk or cream; let it 
boil, season it and serve immediately. An onion or tomato may 
be used, but no other vegetable. 

Onion and Green Pea Soup. 

A delicious soup is made with a pint of young white onions 
and green peas. Boil the onions, drain, put back in the sauce- 
pan, dredge with a tablespoonful of flour, add one quart of 
Campbell's milk, heated to boiling point, and a large cupful of 
cooked green peas. Pour over dice of fried or toasted bread 
placed in the tureen. 

Green Pea Soup. 

V2 peck of green peas. 1 teacupful of Campbell's 

3 quarts of water. cream or milk. 

2 ounces of butter. Salt and pepper. 
2 teaspoonfuls of flour. 

Shell the peas, wash the pods and put them into a pot with 
three quarts of cold water. Salt well and boil for twenty min- 
utes. Strain it and use the water for boiling the peas, which 
should be cooked till quite tender. Take out a teacupful of 
peas and keep hot. Then mash the remainder through a colan- 
der, put them back into the liquor to which add the cream or 
milk and thicken with the flour and add salt and pepper. Then 
pour the whole peas into it, stir several times and serve at 
once, A little chopped mint makes an excellent flavoring. 

Green Pea Soup. No. 2. 

1 quart of green peas. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

1 pint of water. 1 small onion. 

1 tablespoonful of beef ex- 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

tract. 1 cupful of Campbell's cream. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Cook the peas with sliced onion twenty minutes then put 
them through a sieve, return them to the kettle, add the water 
with the beef extract, cook the butter and flour together until 
smooth. Then add to the soup gradually the milk, cream, salt 
and pepper. 

White Pea Soup. 

1 quart of dried green peas. Carrot. 

2 quarts of white stock or Corn starch. 

water. Vz teacupful of Campbell's 

1 onion. cream. 

Stalk of celery. 

17 



Soak the peas over night in cold water, and boil them for 
two hours in two quarts of white stock or water. Add to these 
an onion, cut small, a stalk of celery, and a carrot. When the 
peas are tender, remove the carrot and pass the rest through a 
hair sieve. Return to the saucepan, thicken nicely with corn- 
starch and boil for five minutes. Season with pepper and salt, 
remove from the fire and stir in gradually to the puree half a 
teacupful, or more, if you have it, of cream. For an ordinary 
soup, milk may be substituted for the cream, and if water be 
used instead of stock one ounce of butter should be added to 
it whilst the peas are boiling. This soup should be served with 
fried bread. If the cream is added whilst the soup it still boil- 
ing it is very apt to turn it. 

Potato Soup. 

6 large potatoes. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 quarts water. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. 1 slice of bread. 
1 large onion. 

Pare the potatoes and cut in small pieces, put in a stew pan 
with salt, onion and water. Boil one hour or until the potatoes 
fall apart. Strain and mash through a strainer until entirely 
free from lumpSc Heat the milk to boiling point and add to 
tlie strained potato water. Now cut the bread (stale preferred) 
into very small dice and in a small frying pan fry a light brown 
in the tablespoonful of butter. Pour into the soup. Serve at once 
before the bread or croutons soften. 

Potato Soup. No. 2. 

1 cupful of mashed potatoes. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

2 hard-boiled eggs (yolks). 1 tablespoonful of flour. 
y2 cupful of butter. Salt and pepper. 

Season the potatoes well and be sure that there are no lumps 
in them. Cream the yolks of two eggs boiled as for salad, with 
one-half cup of butter. Have one quart of milk heated in a 
double boiler, thicken it with a tablespoonful of flour, stir the 
potato, eggs and butter intqf it, strain the mixture and serve 
hot. The soup plates should be well heated as much depends 
upon the Boup not being allowed to chill. 

Rice Soup. 

6 ounces of rice. 2 quarts of white stock. 

4 eggs (yolks). % pint of Campbell's cream. 

Boil the rice in the stock and strain half of it through a 
jelly bag. Put the stock into the saucepan, which should be 
enamel, add all the rice and simmer gently for five minutes. 
Have the cream heated, add to the well-beaten yolks of four 
eggs, strain it, take the soup off the fire and pour the two mix- 
tures together, stirring frequently. Heat again but do not allow 
it to boil or the eggs will curdle. 

18 



Rice Soup. No. 2. 

3 ounces of rice. 4 cloves. 

3 quarts of water. Blade of mace. 

3 onions. Teaspoonful of salt. 

1 stalk of celery. Teaspoonful of whole white 

Thyme, parsley and other pepper. 

savory herbs. 1 pint of Campbell's milk o^ 

Bay leaf. milk and cream. 

Cut the washed and prepared vegetables into halves, put 
them into a covered pan with the herbs and spices. Simmer by 
the side of the fire for four hours. Then strain the stock. Put 
it back with the rice and boil for an hour. By this time the 
stock will be thick. Reduce it with the milk and cream, which 
should have been heated to boiling point. Stir a few times and 
serve. Soups, savories and sweets. 

Variations.— Sago or tapioca may be substituted for the rice. 

Squash Soup. 

6 white squashes. 2 quarts of Whi-te stock. 

V^ pint of Campbell's cream. Salt and pepper. 

Pare the squash, cut it into small pieces and boil it in the 
stock. When very soft, mash it through a colander, add the 
cream, heated to boiling point. Season to taste. 

Tomato Bisque.* 

1 quart of stewed tomatoes 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

(fresh or canned). Butter the size of an egg. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. Pepper and salt to taste. 
1 tablespoonful of corn starch 

Put tomatoes in one saucepan, the milk in another let both 
come to a boil. Put soda in the tomatoes, then add butter, salt 
and pepper. Thin the cornstarch, blended with milk. When 
the tomatoes are cooked put them through a sieve, return to 
saucepan and add the hot milk. When it boils 'up again, pour 
into the tureen on a few cubes of buttered toast. Send to the 
table with milk crackers or buttered toast. 

Turnip Soup. 

9 turnips (white). 2 quarts of white stock. 

4 onions. i^ pint of Campbell's cream. 
3 ounces of butter. 

Slice the turnips and onions very thin. Put them into a 
saucepan in which the" butter has been melted, but not allowed 
to brown. Cover with the stock and cook till the vegetables 
are a soft mass. Mash them through a colander, being sure to 
remove all lumps. Add the cream, previously heated, set 
the mixture back on the fire for a few minutes. Serve very hot. 

* Bisque is a French term applied to a soup made from shell fish, generally lobster 
or crab. Tomatoes and milk produce a liquid closely resembling bisque in color 
and somewhat like it in taste, hence the name. 

19 



FISH SOUPS. 

Clam Chowder. 

1 pint of quahaugs. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

2 bunches of soft clams. 1 quart of boiling water. 

6 medium-sized potatoes. Piece of butter half the size 

1 larg-e onion. of an egg. 

3 slices salt pork. 6 crackers. 

Put the pork into the bottom of your soup kettle, until the 
fat is tried out. Add the boiling water, potatoes and onions, 
which have previously been sliced, and the clams, the hard 
parts of which ihave been chopped fine, and let all boil twenty- 
five minutes. Season with salt and pepper, add the milk 
(scalded) and the butter. Break the crackers* into halves, put 
them over the top, and when they are soft, the chowder is done. 

Clam Chowder. No. 2. 

25 hard clams; hard part ^ pound corned pork, sliced. 

chopped and soft cut into 3 half-pints of water. 

fine pieces. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 large onion, chopped fine. Salt and pepper. 

4 potatoes; chipped in short 1 quart of Campbell's milk, 
strips (about one pint). 3 pilot biscuits. 

Place slices of pork in kettle and allow to slowly fry, brown- 
ing only lightly, until slightly crisp, when remove from kettle 
and chop. In the fat fry the chopped onion, also a very light 
brown, then add potatoes and chopped pork, with the water 
(hot). Season well with pepper and salt, cover and boil until 
potatoes arq fairly cooked. Add clams and butter. Simmer for 
five or ten minutes. Then add milk, which should in the mean- 
time have been heating. Just before sending to table pour 
chowder over the broken pilot biscuit. Serve with same kind 
of biscuit, crisp from the oven and tiny mixed pickles. 

Clam Chowder. No. 3. 

Yz lb. lean veal. 1 pint clams. 

^ lb. salt pork. 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

3 onions. 6 small soda crackers. 

1 quart cold water. Pepper, salt, parsley and 

4 or 5 good-sized potatoes. thyme or sage. 

Cut the pork and veal into dice and boil gently with the onions 
and water for two hours; add the potatoes, cut into dice, and 
cook until done, but not too soft. In the meantime boil the 
clams, with the juice, about fifteen minutes, strain and chop the 
clams, and have the milk boiled. Add these when the potatoes 
are done, also the crackers, rolled, or broken into small pieces. 
Do not boil again or it will curdle. Flavor. 

If a strong clam flavor is undesirable do not use all the juice. 

The potatoes will not cook properly if the clam juice is added 
before they are done. 

* Crackers should not be put into chowder which has to be kept over night as they will 
sour. Break what are wanted and put them into the tureen just before serving. 

30 



Clam Soup. 

Hard-shell clams. Campbell's milk. 

Open hard-shell clams quickly with a knife without giving 
notice to the animal within, otherwise it is no easy matter to do 
it. Pour the liquor into a pan, set on the fire, put into another 
pan an equal quantity of milk, with a piece of butter the size of 
an egg. When both milk and clam juice have come to a boil 
add the milk to the clam juice and remove at once from the fire 
(if allowed to remain the mixture will curdle) ; pepper well and 
serve in a tureen that has been heated with hot water. If you 
wish you may add, just before serving, the clams themselves, 
chopped fine and with the little hard eye removed. 

Clam Soup. No. 2. 

25 hard-shell clams. 2 eggs (yolks). 

1 onion. 1 quart of water. 

Stalk of celery. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

Saltspoonful of g-round mace. 2 ounces of butter. 

Wash the clams and put them into a pot with half a coffee- 
cupful of boiling water. When they have opened and the liquor 
run out, take out the shells, remove the clams and chop them as 
fine as possible and press them through a colander. Chop the 
onion and the celery and add them together with the mace to the 
clams, which are to be returned to the liquor after it is strained 
and a quart of water added. Boil all together for fifteen min- 
utes. Heat the milk, pour the two together. If too thin a tea- 
spoonful of flour or cornstarch may be used for thickening. 
Much depends upon the size of the clams and the liquor they 
contain. Just before removing from the fire add the well-beaten 
yolks of two eggs; let them cook one minute. Serve with little 
pieces of toast. 

Eel Soup. 

3 pounds of eels. ^ ounce of whole pepper. 

1 onion. Salt. 

2 ounces of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

3 blades of mace, hi pint of Campbell's cream. 
Sweet herbs (marjoram, sum> 2 quarts of water. 

mer savory and mint). 

Wash the eels, cut them into thin slices and put them into 
the saucepan with the butter. Let them simmer for a few min- 
utes, then pour the cold water on them, add the onion, cut small, 
the herbs, mace and seasoning. Simmer till the eels are tender, 
but do not break them. Take them out carefully; mix the flour 
and cream to a smooth batter, pour it into the water, let it boil, 
then pour it over the eels and serve. 

Fish Chowder. 

2 pounds of fresh codfish, i/^ can of tomatoes. 

haddock or halibut. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1/4 pound of breakfast bacon. Dessertspoonful of flour. 

4 large potatoes. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 
1 small onion. 

21 



Pick fish to pieces daintily, removing all Skin and bones. Peel 
and cut into dice the potatoes. Out up tomatoes, chop each onion 
and the bacon. Rub butter and flour to smooth paste. Into a 
porcelain or graniteware kettle spread half the potatoes, then a 
layer of half the fish. Sprinkle in the onion and the bacon, then 
one-half the tomatoes. At this stage add salt and pepper (using 
your judgment, as tastes vary in seasoning), and then remainder 
of potatoes, fish and tomatoes. Cover with water and let sim- 
mer for half an hour over moderate fire. While milk is scalding 
put into chowder one-fourth teaspoonful of soda and stir for the 
first time. Mix a little of the hot liquor with the paste of butter 
and flour and cook with chowder for two minutes. Stir in milk, 
a dash of parsley, if liked, and serve hot, with heated crackers 
and small pickles. 

Lobster Bisque. 

2 pounds of fresh or canned % teacupful of WEuter. 

lobster. Cayenne pepper. 

2 ounces of butter. 1 quart of Campibell's milk. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 

Pick the lobster meat over carefully to remove all black par- 
ticles or pieces of shell. If canned lobster be used it should be 
well drained. Put the meat, butter, salt and pepper into a 
saucepan. Let this simmer on the side of the stove from fifteen 
to twenty minutes. While this is cooking put a quart of milk on 
in a double boiler and when it comes to a boil thicken it with 
from two to three teaspoonf uls of cornstarch dissolved in a little 
cold milk, pour this in gradually (stir all the time), and let cook 
about three minutes. Stir while it is cooking to prevent lump- 
ing. Now add your lobster and it is ready to serve. This is very 
easy and very good. You may need a little more salt or pepper 
according to your taste, but this amount suits the general run of 
people. 

Oyster Soup. 

V/2 solid quarts of oysters (at 3 tablespoonfuls of corn 
least 75). starch. 

2 quarts of Campbell's milk. 2 ounces of butter. 

Pour the liquor from the oysters through a fine gravy 
strainer. Put it into the milk which place in a double boiler 
and let it come almost to boiling point. Wash the oysters, let 
them drain and then place the colander over the saucepan con- 
taining the milk. Cover with a lid and let them steam till the 
edges of the oysters curl, when add to the soup. Dissolve three 
even tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in three of cold milk. 
Thicken the milk with it and stir continually for five minutes. 
If allowed to boil the oysters will toughen. Put the butter into 
the hot tureen and pour the soup upon it. 

Salmon Chowder. 

1 lb. of salmon. 1 slice of fat salt pork. 

3 medium-sized potatoes. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

1 large onion. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

22 



t*are and slice thin the potatoes, put them into a large agate- 
ware kettle with a quart of boiling water and cooli till tender, 
but not broken. Meanwhile mince a large onion and fry it in 
an iron pan till a light brown, with a heaping tablespoonful of 
fat salt pork, cut into bits; stir into the fat a heaping table- 
spoonful of dry flour, move to the back of the range and add, 
gradually, a generous pint of milk, boil up once and remove 
from the fire. Add to the potatoes in the kettle the contents of a 
pound can of salmon, carefully freed from skin and bones, 
a level tablespoonful of salt, one-fourth of a teaspooUf ul of cay- 
enne pepper, and a pint of boiling water, and let it come to a 
boil; stir in thoroughly the contents of the iron pan, let "-tie 
chowder simmer for a couple of minutes and it is ready to serve. 



FISH. 

The use of milk w^ith fish is principally in sauces, but of 
these there are half a dozen varieties, the simplest of which is 
drawn butter. The substitution of cream for milk in the prep- 
aration of sauces, rechauffes or rissoles makes a dainty dish 
of what would otherwise be ordinary. Salt fish soaked in skim 
milk or in milk and water has a more delicious flavor than 
where w^ater alone is used. 

Bluefish Baked. 

A fi-sh weig-hing not less than 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

4 pounds. Bread crumbs. 

3 slices of salt pork. 1 



Split the fish, remove the backbone and lay it flat in the pan 
for the oven. Have a dressing made of three small slices of salt 
pork, chopped fine, one pint of sweet milk, in which soak bread 
crumbs enough to spread, add to this a well-beaten egg. Bake 
the fish in a hot oven fifteen minutes, then draw out the pan 
and spread the dressing on the fish and bake until done. This 
receipt is for a fish w^eighing five pounds. 

Clams with Cream. 

50 small clams. Teaspoonful of flour. 

Butter size of an egg. Cupful of Campbell's cream. 

Chop the clams into pieces about half an inch square. P-jt 
the butter into a saucepan and stir into it the flour. Add the 
liquor from the clams, cook three minutes and then turn into it 
a cupful of cream brought to the boiling point. 

Devilled Clams. 

1 dozen soft-shell clams. Salt and pepper. 

3 slices of bread. Campbell's milk. 

Small slice of salt pork. 

23 



chop the raw clams very fine, with the raw pork and onion. 
Add the bread, which has been well soaked in hot milk, mix 
well. Fill the half shells quite full and on the top of each put a 
small piece of salt pork. Put the shells in a pan and bake in a 
moderate oven a nice brown, about an hour. Put in the pan 
a little water as it makes a steam and keeps the clams moist. 

Devilled Clams. No. 2. 

25 hard-shell clams. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. Dash of cayenne pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
y2 pint of Campbell's milk. parsley. 

Drain and chop twenty-five clams. Rub together in a sauce- 
pan, one tablespoonful of butter, two of flour, and mix thor- 
oughly with one-half pint of boiling milk. Stir over the fire until 
it begins to thicken, then add two tablespoonfuls of dried bread 
crumbs. Take from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, an 
eighth of a nutmeg, grated, a pinch of mace, one pinch of cay- 
enne pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the clams. 
Stir and mix well. Have ready some clean clam shells (or scal- 
lop shells), till them with this mixture, sprinkle some bread 
crumbs over them, put them in a baking pan, and brown them 
in a hot oven. This will till sixteen shells. 

Creamed Codfish. 

2 or 3 pounds of cod. Vi teaspoonful of powdered 

1 ounce of butter. sugiar. 

Shalot, parsley. Flour. 

Dash of cayenne. V4 pint of Campbell's cream. 

White stock. 

Having boiled a slice of cod and broken it, while hot, into 
flakes, put one ounce of butter, a chopped shalot and some 
finely chopped parsley with stock or water just enough to cover 
into a saucepan and let them boil five minutes. Stir in suflacient 
flour to thicken to the consistency of drawn butter. Have the 
cream heated, pour the two together, let them simmer for ten 
minutes, add cayenne and sugar and if liked a little lemon juice. 
Put the fish into the sauce to w^arm, but do not let it boil. Serve 
with croutons. 

Creamed Codfish. No. 2. 

1 pound of salt codfish. 1 egg. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Little lump of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

Shred the codfish and soak over night in about two quarts 
of cold water. In the morning put the milk in a saucepan and let 
it just come to a boil, then add the cornstarch that has pre- 
viously been moistened with a little cold milk; stir till it 
thickens; add the codfish (which has been thoroughly drained), 
stir well, but not to boil hard for it will toughen the fish. Just 
before taking up add the beaten egg and butter and serve on 
toast. 

24 



iPicked Up Codfish. 

Salt codfish. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Coffeecupful Campbell's milk. 2 eg-g-s. 

Pick the fish carefully into flakes and wash it in seven 
waters. This will remove all salt. Then put it into a pan with 
enoug-h boiling water to cover it. Let it come slowly to boiling 
point and then drain off the water. Melt a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, add a cup of milk to it, let it get very hot and pour it over 
the fish ana immediately afterwards two well-beaten eggs, yolks 
and wliites not separated. Stir the mixture thoroughly and in 
two minutes it will be ready to serve. 

Cod Roe. 

Cod roe. Drawn butter made with 

Salt, Campbell's cream. 

Vinegar, Bread crumbs. 

Wash the roe thoroughly and boil it for ten minutes in water 
- with a little salt and vingar. Cut it into dice and put into 
drawn butter that has been made with cream. It may be escal- 
loped by putting it with layers of bread crumbs and browning 
in the oven, or it may be served on hot buttered toast. Shad roe 
can also be served in the same manner. 

Curried Cod. 

Slices of cod, 1 small teaspoonful of curry 

3 ounces of butter. powder, 

1 onion. A little flour. 

1 teacupful of white stock! Salt and cayenne pepper. 

14 pint of Campbell's cream. Lemon juice. 

Flake the fish and fry it with the butter and onions. Put 
it into a saucepan, add the stock in which the curry has been 
slowly simmered for an hour. Thicken with the flour into 
which the butter has been well worked. Stir in the cream and 
the seasoning. I^et it boil up and serve. 

Halibut, haddock or any other cold fish may be prepared In 
the same way. 

Cod with Italian Sauce. 

3 slices of cod. Salt. 

1 shalot. A few drops of vinegar. 

1 slice of ham. Lemon juice. 

^2 pint of white S'tock. % teaspoonful of powdered 
Y2 teacupful of Campbell's sugar, 

cream. 

Cut deep gashes around the bone of the fish and lay it In 
water to which a teaspoonful of vinegar has been added. The 
soaking should be for at least two hours. This process is known 
as crimping and its object is to make the flesh of the fish firmer. 
Chop the shalot and the ham very fine, pour on the stock and let 
it simmer for fifteen minutes. Add the cream and strain all 
through a fine sieve. Season it and pour in the vinegar, lemon 
juice and sugar. Meanwhile the cod should have been boiled, 
and the middle bone taken out. Pour the sauce over the fish and 
serve. 

25 



Crab or Lobster, Potted. 



Crabs or lobster. 
3 eg-g-s (yolks). 
Mushrooms. 
Butter. 



1 teacupful of Campbell's 

cream. 
Parsley. 



Cook the fish in salt and water. Remove the meat from the 
shells, and put it into a pan with some chopped mushrooms and 
a little butter. Simmer slowly for ten minutes. When almost 
done add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, the cream and the 
chopped parsley. Stew all together till it becomes a thick paste. 
Pack it tightly in earthen jars and cover with clarified butter. 
It will keep almost indefinitely. 

Eels Stewed. 



3 tablespoonfuls Campbell's 

cream. 
Cayenne pepper and salt to 

taste. 
Flour. 



2 pounds of eels. 

1 pint of stock. 

1 onion stuck with cloves. 

Lemon peel and juice. 

1 pint of vineg'ar or ketchup. 

Wash, clean and skin the eels, cut off heads and tails, divide 
the fish into pieces about three to four inches in length and lay 
them in salt and water for at least an hour. Then put them into 
an earthen or enameled pan, cover with the stock, add the 
onion, lemon and ketchup or vinegar, or, if preferred, a glass of 
port wine or Madeira. Stew gently for half an hour. Lift the 
fish out and keep it hot. Add the cream and if liked a sprinkle 
of nutmeg to the stock, thicken slightly with flour, pour over 
the fish and serve. 

Note. — There are nmny receipts for the foregoing but tliey 
differ only in the fiavoring of the sauce. The principal ingre- 
dients and the method are identical in all. 



Baked Haddock. 



3 eg-gs (yolks). 

2 good-sized haddock. 

1 pint of oysters. 

Parsley. 

Onion. 

Bread crumbs. 



1 pint of Campbell's cream. 

1 pint of veal g-ravy. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Pepper, salt, mace, nutmeg 

and wine (sherry). 



Do not wash the fish but clean and dry them thoroughly. 
Strew salt over them and lay them on a board for several hours. 
Then wipe the salt from them, cut off the heads and fins, take 
the skin off by cutting it through down the back, being careful 
not to break the fish. Beat the yolks of three eggs, dip each fish 
in the egg and roll it in the bread crumbs which have been well 
seasoned with pepper and salt and in which the chopped par- 
sley has been mixed. Stuff' the heads and breasts with oysters 
chopped but not too fine and mixed with bread crumbs and egg. 
Lay the fish on a buttered dish, stick pieces of butter all over it 
and bake in a moderate oven. For sauce take a pint of veal 
broth and the same quantity of cream. Mix two tablespoonfuls 
of flour with the cream and boil until of the consistency of 
drawn butter. Add a blade of mace, a little nutmeg, a small 



26 



onion and a sprinkle of salt. When ready to serve take out the 
onion, add a wineglass of wine in which the yolk of an egg has 
been beaten. Lay the heads of the fish at each end of the plat- 
ter and garnish with lemon. The sauce is not to be poured over 
the fish except upon individual portions. 

Lobster Cutlet. 

1 ,pint of loibster meat. Bread crumbs. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. A pinch each of pepper and 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. salt. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. The tips of twelve small loib- 
1/^ pint of Campbell's cream. ster claws. 

4 eggs. 

Mix the chopped lobster meat with pepper and salt. Boil the 
cream, mix butter and flour and pour into boiling cream. Cook 
one minute, stirring all the time. Now put in tlie lobster meat 
and cook eight minutes. Next add two well-beaten eggs; stir 
quickly and take from stove at once; add the lemon juice and let 
cool. When cool sprinkle some of the crumbs on a board and 
keep a dish full. Beat the other two eggs well. Then form the 
cutlets. Dip first into crumbs, then into egg, then into crumbs. 
Stick a claw in the end of each cutlet and fry (in a deep kettle of 
lard) one and one-half minutes. Drain on browm paper. Serve 
on a napkin. 

Lobster a la Newberg. 

1 larg-e lobster. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

y2 pint of Campbell's cream. . 1 taJblespoonful of flour. 
1 gill oif sherry or Madeira. 

Boil the lobster forty-five minutes, remove from the fire and 
allow to cool. Then pick out the meat and cut into small pieces, 
do not chop it. Stir over the fire the butter and fiour until 
smooth, add the milk, and when it has boiled up, the cream and 
lobster. Allow to boil up again. Season. Pour the wine in just 
before removing from the fire. (Serve very hot in individual 
dishes. 

Variations. — The yolks of three hard-boiled eggs are some- 
times blended with the cream, being beaten with it to a smooth 
paste. Some prefer the well-beaten yolks of uncooked eggs 
mixed w' ith the cream. 

ScaHoped Lobster. 

1 lobster. 1 teaspoonful of flour. 

Bread crumbs. 1 gill of Campbell's milk. 

Parsley. Juice of i/^ lemon. 
1 ounce of butter. 

Mince the meat of one lobster into small dice, season with 
salt and pepper, and as much cayenne pepper as will rest on 
the point of a trussing needle. Pound some of the spawn with 
an ounce of butter, then pass throug'h a hair sieve. Melt another 
ounce of butter in a saucepan with one teaspoonful of flour; add 
a little milk, and the meat of the lobster. When the mixture is 
thoroughly hot, put in a pinch of finely minced parsley, the juice 

27 



of half a lemon, and the butter which was pounded with the 
spawn. Fill scallop shells, strew bread crumbs over, put them 
in the oven and bake fifteen minutes, then serve. 

Oyster a la Francaise. 

1 quart of oysters. 2 eggs (yolks). 

'Y2 pint of Campbell's cream. Sherry. 

V/2 teaspoonfuls of corn- Brandy, 
starch. 

Put the oysters with their liquor into a saucepan and let 
them heat on the side of the stove until the edges shrivel. While 
your oysters are heating put one-half pint of cream on in a 
double boiler and let it come to a boil, then strain the 
liquor off of your oysters through a very fine strainer into your 
boiling cream. Leave your oysters in the strainer as you will 
use them in a few minutes. Thicken your cream with from one 
to two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk. 
Stir all the time. Cook about three minutes, then add your oys- 
ters and set on one side of the stove. Take the yolks of two eggs, 
beat them up, and add to them enough sherry to till the cup half 
full. Then add one teaspoonful of brandy. Pour this mixture 
gradually into your creamed oysters and serve immediately. If 
you should not have cream and could not obtain it you can use 
good, rich milk and a little more cornstarch. It will be good, but 
not as fine as when cream is used. 

Creamed Oysters. 

One quart of sweet cream, fifty oysters in shell. 
Butter, pepper and salt to season them well; 
Let the oysters in just their own liquor get hot, 
But the cream you must heat in a separate pot; 
When sufficiently cooked, skim; then carefully fish 
Out each succulent oyster and lay in a dish 
To keep them hot; then the liquor and sweet cream com- 
bine. 
And thicken with cracker crumbs, powdered quite fine; 
Add the oysters and season, then taste and you'll feel, 
I am sure, that this recipe's worth a great deal. 

Creamed Oysters. No. 2, 

1 pint of 03'sters. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

% cup of Campbell's milk. Salt and pepper. 

% tablespoonful of butter. 

Take a pint of oysters, drain off the liquor and put on to 
boil. When boiling add the oysters, let them come to a boil, 
then drain again. Boil three-fourths of a cup of milk, rub to- 
gether one-half tablespoonful of butter and one of flour. Add 
this to the milk and let it boil. Pour over the oysters, season 
with salt and pepper and let it come nearly to the boiling point. 
Then serve. 

28 



Creamed Oysters Baked. 

1/4 bunch of parsley. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 solid quart of oysters. Juice of one lemon. 

Yz pint of Campbell's cream. Flour for thickening. 

Make a thick white sauce by rubbing the butter with an 
equal quantity of flour and adding to it the cream, previously 
brought to the boiling point. Stir over a moderate fire until it 
thickens. Season with the lemon juice, two teaspoonfuls of salt 
and half a teaspoonf ul of black pepper or of paprika. Chop the 
parsley fine and stir through the sauce. Pour the sauce into a 
baking dish (china), add the oysters, after carefully draining 
them, and bake in a very hot oven for twenty minutes or less. 
If baked too long the oysters will shrivel and the mixture will 
whey and the whole dish will be execrable. 

Devilled Oysters. 

25 frying oysters. 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 

Vz pint of Campbell's cream, 1 tablespoonful of parsley. 

1 ounce of butter. Salt and cayenne pepper. 

2 eggs (yolks). Bread crumbs. 

Have the oysters sent on the half shell. Take them out, 
drain and chop them, then drain a second time. Put the cream 
on in a double boiler, thicken with the cornstarch, add the yolks 
of the eggs, cook one moment, take from the fire, put in the but- 
ter, beating until it is thoroughly mixed, then add the parsley, 
then the oysters. Season with salt and a dash of cayenne. 
Have the oyster shells washed and the inside dried. Pill them 
with the mixture, sprinkle bread crumbs lightly on top and 
brown in a quick oven. 

Oyster Omelet. 

1 dozen oysters. 1 pint of Campbeil's milk, 

8 eggs. Pepper and salt. 

1 large cupful of flour. 

Beat the eggs and season to taste. Chop the oysters, make 
a batter of the flour and milk, mix the oysters well with the 
same and fry as an ordinary omelet. 

Oyster Patties. 

2 dozen oysters. Lemon juice. 

2 ounces of butter. 1 blade of mace. 

3 tablespoonfuls of Camp^ Cayenne pepper, 
bell's cream. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard them and cut 
each one into three pieces. Put the butter into a saucepan, 
dredge in sufiicient flour to dry it up; add the strained oyster 
liquor with the other ingredients; put in the oysters, and let 
them heat gradually, but not boil. Fill the patty shells and 
serve. 

Oyster Pie. 

Oysters. Lemon. 

Eggs. % cup of CampbeJl's cream. 

29 



Line a deep earthen dish with pie crust; fill dish nearly full 
of drained oysters, put on the top a layer of sliced hard-boiled 
eggs and four slices of lemon, cover with crust and bake one- 
half hour. Pour in one-half cup of cream ten minutes before 
taking from oven. 

Oyster Pie. No. 2. 

Oysters. Cracker crvimbs. 

Campbell's milk. 2 eggs. 

Make a pie crust, thicker than for a fruit pie. The top crust 
should be twice the thickness of the under. Line a deep dish 
with the paste, fold a towel and lay it in the dish, then cover 
with upper crust and bake. Wet or butter the edges of upper 
and lower crust before putting them together, so that the upper 
may be removed readily. Prepare oysters as for a stew. Oook 
but five minutes, thickening with the cracker crumbs or if pre- 
ferred, with cornstarch and just before removing from the fire 
add the eggs. Take the dish out of the oven, lift the upper crust, 
pour in the oysters, replace the crust and serve at once. 

Oyster Pudding. 

2 dozen large oysters. 1 egg. 

Rice. Salt and pepper. 

1 gill of Campbell's creHm. 

Drain two dozen large oysters entirely free of their own 
liquor. Spread a layer of rice, boiled very dry over the bottom 
of the pudding dish, then a layer of oysters, then another layer 
of rice. Cover that with another layer of oysters, and last the 
third layer of rice. Mix two ounces of butter, one gill of rich 
cream, with half a gill of the oyster liquor and one well4ieaten 
egg. Season with pepper and salt and pour over the pudding. 
Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. Be very careful in seasoning 
not to put in, at first, too much pepper or salt. Remember it is 
easier to add a little at a time, until it is just right, then to take 
out, if too highly seasoned. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

1 quart of stewing oysters. 1 pint of Campbells' milk. 

Bread or cracker crumbs. 1^/^ ounces of butter. 

1 egg. 

Put a layer of cracker crumbs in the bottom of a well- 
greased baking dish, then a layer of oysters. Season with salt, 
and pepper and cover with cracker crumbs and bits of butter. 
Continue this until the dish is full (using about three pints of 
oysters). Have the top layer cracker crumbs. Cover with bits 
of butter. Beat up an egg, stir into a pint of milk and pour 
over the oysters. Bake until a rich brown. Half an hour Is 
usually sufficient. 

Bondins of Salmon. 

Cold salmon (boiled). Campbell's milk. 

Bread crumbs. 2 eggs. 

Butter. Salt and pepper. 

30 



Take equal quantities of cold boiled salmon and bread crumbs. 
Put the salmon, finely flaked and picked free from bones and 
skin into a mortar; pound it and work into it half the bulk of 
butter, and the bread crumbs soaked in milk and squeezed dry. 
Season with pepper and salt. Then work in the yolks of two 
eggs, the white of one, to bind the mixture. Put into a buttered 
moulds and steam for half an hour in a saucepan full of boiling 
water. Serve with a Dutch sauce. 

Salmon Cakes. 

1 can of salmon. 1 egg. 

6 or 8 good-sized potatoes. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

Boil and mash the potatoes, adding milk and butter as if for 
the table. Drain the liquor off the salmon and take out the 
bones, then add together with the egg, to tlie potatoes and mix 
well. Make into cakes and fry in hot fat and serve with the 
following sauce: Take a pint of Campbell's milk, boil it and 
thicken with a scant tablespoonful of cornstarch, wet with a 
little milk, a good-sized lump of butter and two hard-boiled eggs 
that have been chopped fine. 

Creamed Salmon. 

1 can of salmon. 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. Salt and cayenne pepper. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 

Remove the fish from the can, pick to pieces with a fork and 
drain. Take one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful 
of flour; melt the butter and stir in the flour; when well mixed 
add a cup of milk; cook until this becomes a smooth sauce. To 
this add the salmon. Season with salt and a dash of red pepper. 
When all is thoroughly heated add the juice of half a lemon. 
Brown in the oven in a buttered dish. 

Scolloped Salmon. 

1 can of salmon steaks. Butter size of a small eg"g. 

4 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of corn- 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. starch. 

Take one flat can of salmon, four hard-boiled eggs. Boil one 
pint of milk with butter size of a small egg, salt and pepper 
to taste; thickened with one even tablespoonful of cornstarch 
wet in cold milk. Butter a baking dish. Put in a layer of salmon, 
the slices of the hard-boiled eggs, and continue in alternation 
until all the fish is used, with sauce on top. Sprinkle sifted 
bread or cracker crumbs over the top and bake half an hour. 

TImbale of Salmon. 

1 can of salmon. 4 tablespoonfuls of Camp- 

4 eggs. bell's cream. 

One pound can of salmon, four eggs, a little salt and pepper, 
four tablespoonfuls of Campbell's cream or rich milk. Remove 
the salmon from the can and reject all bone and skin. Wash 
the salmon fine, adding slowly the cream? then add the salt 

31 



and pepper and the yolks of the eggs, well-beaten. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir them carefully into the 
mixture. Fill buttered cups two-thirds full of this mixture, 
stand them in a pan of hot water, and bake about fifteen 
minutes. When done remove the timbales carefully from the 
cups, arrange them on a meat platter and serve. 

Creamed Shrimps. 

Chafing Dish Cookery. 

11/^ pints of shrimps. Juice of % lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and paprika. 

Vz pint of Campbell's cream. 

Use only the top pan of your chafing dish, as this mixture . 
does not need to be cooked over hot water, and much time is 
thus saved. Put into the pan two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
as it melts rub into it two tablespoonfuls of flour. Then pour 
in half a pint of cream, stirring fast all the time, season well 
with salt and paprika. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon 
and finally add a pint and a half of shrimps. Cook for fifteen 
minutes, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Remember 
that in using a chafing dish without the hot water pan one must 
work quickly and carefully as well, or the food will be spoiled. 

Devilled Shrimps. 

1 pint of shrimps (after being 3 eggs. 

shelled). 2 cupfuls of Campbell's 

1 tablespoonful of butter. cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and stir until smooth. Add the 
cream or milk and stir constantly until the mixture thickens. 
Add three hard-boiled eggs, pressed through a sieve and the 
shrimps chopped in small pieces. Season with one teaspoonful 
of salt, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, one saltspoonf ul 
of pepper and a dash of cayenne. Fill buttered shells with the 
mixture, cover the top with bread crumbs and bits of the butter 
and brown in a quick oven. Serve the shells on beds of parsley. 

Lake Trout. 

French Hethod in use at Lake Winnipiseogee. 

Trout. 1 pint or more of Campbell's 

Flour. milk. 

Salt. Thyme. 

After the fish has been properly cleaned and scaled, rinse it 
well in cold water and lay on a fish cloth to dry. Then roll well 
in sifted flour and place in a well-greased baking pan. Pour into 
the pan about a pint of milk and cook in a brisk, steady oven. 
Baste the fish frequently adding extra milk if the liquid 
dries off. Twenty minutes to half an hour will cook a medium- 
sized fish. Upon removing the fish from the pan, add salt, 
thyme and a small quantity of thickening, and the remaining 

32 



liquid and serve this as a sauce for the fish. In cooking the fish 
salt and pepper may be added to the taste. 

Terrapin. 

A Famous Philadelphia Receipt. 

4 terrapins. 4 or 5 tablespoonfuls of 

^4 pound of butter. Campbell's cream. 

Handful of flour. i/^ pint of Madeira. 

Put the terrapins alive in a pot of boiling water, where they 
must remain until quite dead. You then divest them of their 
outer skin and toenails, and, after washing them in warm water, 
boil them again until they become quite tender, adding a hand- 
ful of salt to the water. Having satisfied yourself of their being 
perfectly tender take off the shells and clean carefully without 
breaking the gall and sand bags. Then cut the meat and en- 
trails into small pieces, and put into a saucepan, adding the 
juice which has been given out in cutting them up, but no water, 
and season with salt, cayenne and black pepper to your taste, 
adding one-fourth of a pound of good butter to each terrapin and 
a handful of flour for thickening. After stirring a short time, 
add the cream and wine and serve hot in a deep dish. 



SAUCES. 
Fish, rieat and Vegetables. 

Fish Stock. 

The stock for fish sauces should be made from the water in 
which fish has been boiled. When fish is filleted the bones 
should be utilized in this way. The fins may also be used. The 
stock should be flavored with an onion and white pepper. It 
should then be strained and thickened with cream butter and 
flour. For delicate fish such as white bait, arrowroot may be 
used to better advantage than flour. 

A famous cook says that a w^ooden spoon and a saucepan 
with a rounded bottom are required for the making of a perfect 
sauce. 

Drawn or flelted Butter. 

The basis of Fish, Heat and Vegetable Sauces of many kinds. 

Flour. Campbell's milk. 

Butter. 

Mix the flour and butter together by working one into the 
other with a silver knife and on a flat surface, a moulding 
board or the sides of a chopping tray are good for the purpose. 
Only a little flour should be used, just enough to keep the butter 
from oiling when it is placed over the fire. When thoroughly 

as 



blended add a teaciipful of hot milk for about a tablespoonf ul 
of butter and a scant tea spoonful of flour. Put it into an enam- 
eled saucepan and stir one way constantly till it thickens. It 
should be thicker for fish than for vegetables, as various liquid 
sauces are added to it, either in preparation or at table. 

Note.— Butter may be melted for sauces or dressing by put- 
ting it into a cup and setting the same into boiling water. This 
prevents oiling. 

Bachamel Sauce. 

White stock. 1 pint of Campbell's cream. 

1 tablespoonful of arrowroot. 

Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the cream and allow it to 
simmer about five minutes. Then pour it into a pint of hot 
stock and let it simmer till it thickens. 

Bechamel Sauce. No. 2. 

2 ounces of butter. 1 egg (yolk). 

1 tablespoonful of flour. Teaspoonful of water. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Salt and white pepper. 

Mix well together while cold, two ounces of butter and a 
tablespoonful of flour, then add a pint of milk, and set on the 
fire, stir continually and when turning rather thick, take off. 
Beat the yolk of an egg in a cup with a teaspoonful of water, 
turn into the sauce and mix well again. Season with salt and 
white pepper. 

Bread Sauce. 

For Poultry and Game. 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. Salt and pepper. 

1 cupful of dried bread 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
crumbs. V4, onion. 

Dry the bread in rather a warm oven, and then roll into 
rather coarse crumbs. Now sift them through a sieve, and get 
one-third of a cupful. Put on to boil with the milk and onion. 
Boil ten minutes; then add one tablespoonful of the butter and 
seasoning. Skim out the onion. Pry the coarse crumbs a light, 
crisp brown in one tablespoonful of butter, which must be very 
hot before the crumbs are added. Stir over a hot fire for two 
minutes, being careful not to burn. Cover the breasts of the 
birds, after roasting and serve with it. . 

Celery Sauce, 

For Poultry and Game. 

Celery, 2 stalks. ' Nutmeg. 

% pint of Campbell's cream. 1 teaspoonful of butter. 

1 blade of mace. Flour. 

Wash clean and pare one large bunch of celery, cut it up 
very small, and boil gently until tender. Then add half a pint of 
cream, a little mace, nutmeg and a small piece of butter rolled 
in flour. Then let it boil slowly again for a few minutes. 

34 



Celery Sauce. No. 2. 

1 pint of white stock. 3 tablespoonfuls arrowroot or 

6 heads of celery. cornstarch. 

2 blades of mace. li/^ pints of Campbell's cream 
I small bunch of savory or milk. If milk add 1 table- 
herbs, spoonful of butter. 

Boil the celery in salt and water until tender. Cut it into 
small pieces. Put the stock into a stew pan with the mace and 
herbs and let simmer for half an hour, then strain add the celery 
with thickening of arrowroot. Just before serving put in the 
cream, boil it up and add a squeeze of lemon. , 

Cream Sauce. 

For Venison, Hare and Rabbits. 

1 cupful of Campbell's cream. Butter size of a walnut. 

2 egg's (yolks). Salt. 

1 teaspoonful of chopped Flour. , 

onion. 

When your venison, hare or rabbit is done pour a cupful of 
Campbell's cream over it and catch it in a dish. Beat the yolks 
of tu'O eggs thoroughly and mix with the cream. Add one tea- 
spoonful of chopped onion, a piece of butter the size of a large 
walnut, rolled in salt and flour. Boil one minute and serve. 

Cream Sauce. No. 2. 
For Vegetables, Fish, Sweetbreads, etc. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 1 teiaspoonful of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of flour. A little salt and pepper. 

Put the butter in a/ frying pan and when it gets hot, not 
brown, add the flour, stirring until perfectly smooth, then add, 
gradually the milk. Let it boil up at once, season to taste with 
the salt and pepper and serve. 

Note. — For creamed potatoes, chop the potatoes and heat 
through in this sauce. 

Egg Sauce. 

4 eggs. 14 pint of drawn butter. 

Boil the eggs hard as for salad, cut the whites and yolks 
separately, the latter into dice, but use only two whites. 
Mix them well and then stir them through the drawn butter, 
which should be boiling hot. 

Fresh Water Fish Sauce. 

2 large anchovies or 1 dessert- 4 teaapoonf uls of sherry. 

spoonful of anchovy sauce 4 teaspoonfuls of Campbell's 
y2 onion. cream. 

1 teaspoonful of vinegar. 

Boil the sherry, vinegar, onion and anchovy together. Strain 
the mixture and thicken it by adding the cream mixed to a thin 
paste with flour, or, if preferred, drawn butter can be used. 

35 



German Sauee. Sauce Allemande. 

For Hade Dishes of All Kinds. 

V2 pint of white sauce. 1 -saltspoonful of salt. 

Mushrooms. White pepper. 

3 eggs (yolks). 

Take a half-pint of white sauce, add to it half the liquor 
from a can of mushrooms and half a dozen of the mushrooms, 
chopped fine. Let them simmer, stirring all the time, five min- 
utes, then remove from the fire. Set the saucepan into another 
containing boiling water. Have the yolks of three eggs ready- 
beaten, put a little of the sauce to them, beat together, then add 
the eggs gradually to the rest of the sauce, which must be re- 
turned to the fire, and stirred until the eggs begin to thicken, 
then it must be quickly removed and stirred until slightly cool. 
Season with a saltspoonful of salt, a fourth of one of pepper and 
strain. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, or 
they will curdle. Just allow it to reach the boiling point. 

Lobster Sauce. 

i hen lobster. i^ pint of Campbell's cream. 

1/4 pint of drawn butter. 

Cut the lobster into small pieces. The hen is preferred, be- 
cause of the coral. Beat the cream throu,gh the drawn butter 
and add the lobster just before serving. 

Lobster Sauce. No. 2. 

1 medium-sized lobster. 1 ounce of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of anchovy Salt ajnd cayenne to taste, 
sauce. 1 pint of Campbell's cream. 

Choose a hen lobster, pick the meat from the shell and cut 
into small pieces put the spawn (which will be found under 
the tail of the lobster) into a mortar with the butter and pound 
it quite smooth. Make a sauce of two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
two ounces of butter, one pint of Campbell's cream. Mix to- 
gether smoothly. Let it boil a few minutes, add all the other in- 
gredients except the lobster meat. Mix the sauce well before 
the meat is added to it, as it should retain its form and not come 
to the table shredded. After putting in the meat let it get thor- 
oughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, as the color would be 
spoiled. It should have a bright red appearance. 

fleat Sauce. 

9 Spanish onions. 2 ounces of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 1 pint of Campbell's cream. 

Peel the onions and put them in a stew pan until tender, 
then drain them thoroughly, chop and rub them through a sieve. 
Make the sauce with the above ingredients. When it boils 
add the onions, stir it until it simmers, when it is ready to 
serve. 

36 



riushroom Sauce. 

1 pint of mushrooms. 1 teaspoonful of flour. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. 1 blade of mace. 

1 gill of butter. Salt and white pepper. 

One can of mushrooms, or one pint of young mushrooms, 
peeled. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, 
a very little mace, a pint of Campbell's rich sweet milk or 
cream, and a gill of butter, rubbed up with a teaspoonful of 
flour. Boil up once and serve in a gravy boat. 

Mustard Sauce. 

Excellent for Lobster or Crab. 

Stir two tablespoonf uls of made mustard into one-fourth of 
a pint of drawn butter. 

Onion Sauce. 

Boil white onions in two waters and until very soft. Mash 
them through a sieve and put the pulp into drawn butter. Stir 
a few times and serve. 

Oyster Sauce. 

For Boiled Turkey. 

1 dozen stewing oysters. % pint of drawn butter. 

Stew the oysters in their own liquor for two minutes or until 
the edges curl. Strain and add oysters and broth to the drawn 
butter, pouring in the liquor very gradually to prevent the flour 
from becoming lumpy. 

Parsley Sauce. 

[For Boiled Chicken or Salt Broiled Fish. 

1 large tablespoonful of chop- 4 tablespoonsful of CampbelFs 

ped parsley. milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. Dash of pepper. 

Chop fine enough parsley to fill one large tablespoon, then 
rub it with one tablespoonful of butter, add four tablespoonf uls 
of hot milk, a dash of pepper and pour it at once over the food 
for which it was prepared. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

1 pint of shrimps. V2 pint of drawn butter. 

1 teaspoonful of anchovy Dash of cayenne pepper, 
sauce. 

Take the shells from the shrimps and, having added the an- 
chovy and pepper to the drawn butter while hot, put the 
shrimps into the same and let them simmer until thoroughly 
heated. 

White Sauce. 

Good for Fish, Meats or Vegetables. 

1 pint of veal stock. 2 ounces of flour. 

2 ounce© of butter. 1 gill of Campbell's cream. 

37 



Put two ounces of butter into a thick saucepan with two 
ounces of flour (two heaping tablespoonfuls approximate the 
ounce in flour, but weight only should be relied on for fine cook- 
ing). Let these melt over the fire, stirring them so that the but- 
ter and fi,our become well mixed, then let them bubble together, 
stirring enough to prevent the flour from sticking or changing 
color. Three minutes will suffice to cook the flour. Add a 
pint of clear, hot white stock, that has been strained through 
a cloth. This stock must not be poured slowly or the sauce will 
thicken too fast. Hold the pint measure or other vessel in which 
stock may be in the left hand, stir the butter and flour quickly 
with the right, then turn the broth to it all at once. Let this 
simmer an hour until very thick, then add a gill of cream, stir, 
and the sauce Is ready. 

Salad Dressing. 

The secret of good salad dressing lies' in having the best in- 
gredients and in the manner of mixing. The proportions may be 
left largely to individual taste. The cream must be thick and 
perfectly sweet, the oil must have no hint of rancidness and the 
vinegar must be pure. Let these be blended by one who pos- 
sesses a steady hand and good judgment and success is certain. 

Boiled Salad Dressing. 

Without Oil. 

y2 pint of Campbell's milk. V2 cupful of vineg"ar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 1 teaspoonful of fine sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of mustard. % teasipoonful salt. 

Melt the butter and add the sugar, salt and mustard so a,s to 
make a smooth paste. Beat two eggs well; add them together 
with the vinegar and the milk to the mixture and pour all into 
a double boiler. Stir continually until it attains the consistency 
of boiled custard, then remove at once to prevent curdling. Put 
into a preserving jar or sealed bottle and it will keep for ten 
days or even longer. 

Boiled Salad Dressing. No. 2. 

3 talblesipoonsful of Camp- 14 teaspoonful of mustard. 

bell's cream. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

5 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 2 eggs. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat eggs well and add sugar, mustard and salt. Stir in 
cream and vinegar. Put all in a double boiler of boiling water 
and stir constantly till it cooks thick, which it will do in about 
five minutes. 

Dressing for Cabbage Salad. 

Take one-half cupful of vinegar with a piece of butter the 
size of an egg; heat in a double boiler to the boiling point. Mix 
together, dry, one teaspoonful of mustard, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and one-third cupful of sugar. Beat the yolks 

38 



or two eggs and add half a cupful of Campbell's milk, 
add this to the dry ingredients, then add all to the hot vinegar, 
stirring over the fire until thickened. Have your cabbage 
shaved fine and mix the dressing with it. 

Cream Cabbage Salad. 

5 potatoes. Salt and pepper. 

V2 head of White cabbage. % cup of Campbell's milk. 

1/2 cup of vinegar. 1 heaping teaspoonful of but- 
2 scant teaspoonfuls of mus- ter. 

tard. 1 egg. 
2 teaspoonfuls of white sugar. 

Pare and boil five medium-sized Irish potatoes. When done 
mash them and beat with a silver fork until feathery. While 
the potatoes are cooling chop very fine one-half of a small head 
of white cabbage, or enough to fill a quart measure when chop- 
ped. Beat the ma.shed potatoes and chopped cabbage thor- 
oughly together. Put over the fire in a saucepan one-half cup 
of vinegar in which has been dissolved two scant teaspoonfuls 
of ground mustard, two teaspoonfuls of white sugar, and pepper 
and salt to taste, usually three-fourths of a teaspoonful of salt 
and one-fourth teaspoonful of white pepper. When the mixture 
is iscalded stir into the potato and cabbage. Into two-thirds of 
a cup of milk put one heaping teaspoonful of butter and set on 
the stove and scald. Beat an egg light and pour the hot milk 
on it, then replace over the fire and stir constantly until it thick- 
ens, then beat into the salad with the fork until the mixture is 
light and creamy. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

With Sour Cream Dressing. 

1 small head of cauliflower. i/^ teaspoonful of salt. 

1 lemon. 14 teaspoonful of paprika. 

Boil one small head of caulifiower thirty minutes in salted 
water or until tender. Break it in pieces, reserving the flower- 
ets for the salad and throwing away the stump. Squeeze the 
juice of one lemon through a strainer over the flowerets, let it 
stand half an hour. Drain off the lemon juice and throw away. 
Season the cauliflower with half a teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth of a teaspoonful of paprika (a Hungarian pepper to be 
bought at any delicatessen store), half a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, one-eighth of a teaspoonful of white pepper and a dash of 
cayenne pepper, one thin slice of lemon, peeled and cut in small 
bits. Mix these seasonings thoroughly through the cauliflower. 
Add enough sour cream dressing to moisten well. Serve on a 
platter garnished with parsley and half a slice of lemon. 

Sour Cream Dressing. 

% teaspoonful of mustard. 2 tablespoonfuls of melted 
y2 teaspoonful of paprika. butter. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 5 tablespoonfuls of sou> 
5 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. cream. 



2 eggs. 



39 



Sift the seasonings into the vinegar, stir until smooth, add 
to the beaten eggs, stir well; add the butter, cook in a double 
boiler over hot water, until thick as soft custard. Remove from 
the fire. When cold beat the cream in slowly. 

Dressing for Egg Salad. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch. 
Liump of butter size of an egg. 

Boil the milk, stir in the cornstarch, wet up with a little cold 
milk, add the butter, then season to suit the taste with a little 
mustard wet with a little vinegar, a dash of cayenne pepper, 
pinch of salt. Take hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters, spread out 
on a platter and pour the dressing over them. Serve cold. 

Lettuce Salad flixture. 

1 tablespoonful of mustard. 5 tablespoonfuls of brown 
8 tablespoonfuls of Camp~ vinegar. 

bell's cream. i/^ teaspoonful of white pep- 

2 tablespoonfuls of soft sugar. per. 

Beat well together the mustard, cream, sugar and pepper. 
Add the vinegar and again stir well. This is sufficient for two 
heads of lettuce, of which every leaf must be washed separately 
then laid on one another and cut across in about one-half-inch 
widths, and a few times across again the other way. Lay the 
cut lettuce in a dish, pour all over it the above dressing and 
strew over the whole two hard-boiled eggs chopped into fine 
pieces. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

1 pint of best olive oil. Just a suspicion of cayenne 

Yolks of four eggs. pepper. 

1 tablespoonful of mustard. i/4 cup of vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. V^ cup of Campbell's cream 
Juice of a lemon. whipped very light. 

Beat the yolks and dry ingredients until very light and thick, 
add the oil a few drops at a time until very thick, then more at 
a time, then the vinegar and more oil and the lemon juice until 
all is used up. Add the whipped cream last. 

Salad Dressing. 

For Chicken or Salmon. 

2 eggs. Saltspoonful of salt. 

y^ teaspoonful of mustard. 1 teaspoonful of butter. 

% cup of vinegar. 1 cupful of Campbell's cream. 

y^ teaspoonful of sugar. 

Stir the yolks of eggs with salt, sugar, butter and the mus- 
tard, then gradually add the vinegar, stirring all the time. Then 
add the cream, gradually, and put on the fire (double boiler is 
best), stirring all the time to prevent it curdling. 

When the dressing is as thick as cream, take it from the fire 
and add the whites of eggs beaten stiff. This will last a week, 
if kept in a cool place. Double the quantity can be made and 

40 



kept as well. Pour dressing over cold salmon and garnish dish 
with lettuce leaves, it makes a pretty and good dish for lunch- 
eon or tea. 

Salad Dressing. No. 2. 

For Poultry, Celery, Tomatoes, Potatoes, Lobster, Shrimp, Veal, 
Sweetbreads Eggs, Apples, Etc. 

4 well-beaten eggs. 1 even teaspoonful of sugar. 

% cup of vinegar and water, A little pepper. 

mixed. 1 pinch of mustard. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. -^4 teacupful of Campbell's 

1 even teaspoonful of salt. cream. 

Cook in a little saucepan over the boiling teakettle, stirring 
all the time and removing it when it has thickened. Then add 
half a teacupful of rich cream and beat all together with an egg 
beater. 

Salad Dressing. No. 3. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

y2 teaspoonful of mustard. Butter half size of an egg. 

% teaspoonful of pepper. Campbell's milk. 

y2 teacup of vinegar. 

Put on the stove in a farina kettle and stir until it thickens. 
Set away to cool. Add milk to thin it to the consistency jou 
wish. This is good for chicken salad, cabbage and sliced toma- 
toes. 

Salad Dressing. No. 4. 

Easily prepared and not too rich. 

1 rounded teaspoonful of mus- 3 eggs. 

tard. 1 cupful of Campbell's cream 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. or milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 1 cupful of vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful of the best Cayenne pepper. 

olive oil. 

Ingredients should be mixed in the order named. Cook in 
a double boiler, stirring now and then, until as thick as desired, 
about one or one and one-half hours. It thickens more while 
cooling. When ready to use add a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
This sauce will keep nicely for some days in a cool place. At 
times it appears curdled in the cooking, but that does it no harm 
and it is all right when mixed with the other salad ingredients. 
Cream thickens quicker and is not so apt to curdle. 

Salad Dressing. No. 5. 

Without Oil. 

1 small cupful of vinegar. Salt. 

Butter size of an egg. V2 cup of sugar. 

3 eggs (yolks). 1 cupful of Campbell's cream. 
3 teapoonsfuls of mustard. Pinch of cayenne. 

Put a small cup of vinegar in a kettle with a piece of butter 
the size of an egg. Let this come to a boil. Take the yolks of 
three eggs, beaten, three teaspoonfuls of table mustard, salt to 

41 



taste, a pinch of cayenne, one-half cup of -su^gar, one cupful of 
cream; beaU all together. Takei the boilin,g vinegar, pour a 
small stream into it, stirring constantly, return to the kettle and 
thicken a little. This is nice for all kinds of vegetables, for 
salad. 

Virginia Salad Dressing. 

2 egg's. 1 teaspoonful of granulated 
1 gill of olive oil. sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. % pint of Campbell's cream. 

1/^ teaspoonful of mustard. 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

Take the yolks of one raw egg and one hard boiled, mash the 
boiled to a cream with di*ops of olive oil, until it will 
take no more, then add the raw yolk and beat again, adding oil 
in same way, about a gill. Now add a teaspoonful of salt, half 
a teaspoonful of mustard, a full teaspoonful of granulated 
sugar. Mix well until perfectly smooth, then half a pint of 
cream and stir until well mixed; then two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, stir again, put on ice, and it will thicken. This is 
delicious. 



CHAFING DISH COOKERY 
AND ENTREES. 

Creamed Ctiicken. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Yz teaspoonful of salt (scant). 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn- Lump of butcer size of a wal~ 
starch. nut. 

Remove from the bones all the meat and pick fine. Let the 
milk, salt and butter boil, then thicken with the cornstarch, 
dissolved in a little cold water or milk. Stir in the chicken and 
allow to boil a minute, stirring constantly. Just before serving 
drop in one beaten egg and whip quickly to prevent curdling. 
Serve on buttered toast. Either fresh of canned chicken may be 
used. 

Creamed Chicken. No. 2. 

6 pounds of chicken. 1 can of mushrooms. 

4 sweetbreads. 

Boil the chicken and sweetbreads with just enough water to 
cover them, and when cold remove the skin and bones and cut 
the chicken up in small pieces as for salad. In a saucepan put 
one quart of cream (Campbell's), in another pan put four large 
tablespoonfuls of butter, and five even tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Stir until melted and then pour in the hot cream, stirring until 
it thickens. Flavor with half of a small onion, grated and a 

42 



very little nutmeg, season highly with black and red peppei* 
(not too much red). Put the cream and chicken in a baking dish, 
add the mushrooms, cut in pieces, if large, cover with grated 
bread, put a number of pieces of butter on top and bake ten to 
twenty minutes. 

Creamed Chicken. No. 3. 

A plump chicken. 1 tablespoonful of corn- 
1 pint of Campbell's milk or starch. 

cream. Lump of butter. 
Salt and pepper. 

Wash, singe and disjoint. Lay the pieces to be stewed in a 
large saucepan, pour on just enough cold water to cover the 
chicken, cook slowly and carefully until tender, when done pour 
into the saucepan a pint of rich milk or cream; add to all one 
heaping tablespoonful of cornstarch dissolved in a small quan- 
tity of milk. Allow the chicken to remain on the fire until the 
cornstarch has thickened the gravy; now season to taste with 
salt, pepper and a lump of butter, serve on toast. 

Chopped Chicken. 

In a Chafing Dish. 

1 pint of chicken. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
y^ pint of Campbell's cream. Parsley (chopped). 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Make a white sauce of the flour, butter and cream in the top 
pan of the chafing dish, stir in the parslej^ and then the chicken, 
cook for five or ten minutes until boiling hot. Have some thin 
soda biscuit split and laid on a warm platter. Pour the creamed 
chicken over them and eat at once. Veal may be used in place of 
chicken, in which case add to the mixture the thin outer rind of 
a lemon (the yellow part only), chopped very fine. 

Chicken and Sweetbread Croquettes. 

1 pint of chicken (chopped). A pinch of mace (may be 
6 sweetbreads. used). 

V-/2. pints of bread crumbs. 1 egg. 

1 large coffeecupful of Camp- Parsley (chopped), 

bell's milk. Salt and pepper. 

Mix with two beaten eggs and a large coffeecupful of milk. 
It must be quite moist. Form the mixture in small rolls, or 
pyramid shapes, dip each one in beaten O:^^, roll in dry bread 
crumbs, and fry quickly in a hot pan with plenty of hot butter. 

Fricasseed Fowl. 

The remains of a cold roast Pepper and salt to taste. 

fowl. V2 pint of water. 

1 strip of lemon peel. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 blade of mace. 1 quart of Campbell's cream. 

1 bunch of savory herbs. 1 ^^^ (yolk). 
1 onion. 

Carve the fowl into neat joints, make gravj^ of the trim- 
mings and legs by stewing them with the lemon peel, mace, 

43 



onions and savory herbs, adding the water, stew, then strain. 
Put in the fowl and when thoroughly heated thiclien with flour, 
stir the yolli of egg to the cream, add these to the sauce and let 
it get thoroughly heated, but not boil, or it will curdle. 

Fowl and Rice Croquette. 

V2 pound of rice. A fowl. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 1 egg. 

2 ounces of butter. Bread crumbs. 

Put the rice into the above quantity of milli. Let it boil very 
gently for half an hour. Then add the butter, simmer till it is 
quite dry and soft. When cold make into balls, hollow out the 
inside and till with minced fowl (the mince should be rather 
thick), cover over with rice, dip the balls into egg, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs and fry a nice brown. 

Fried Chicken. 

1 young spring chicken. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
1 tablespoonful of salt. parsley. 

Vs teaspoonful of pepper. 

Cut the cliicken into joints, dry and season with a little salt 
and pepper, then roll in two tablespoonfuls of flour. Now put 
butter enough to cover the pieces and a little salt into a frying 
pan and put on the fire. When very hot put in the chicken, as 
much as will not be crowded. Brown one side, then turn and 
brown the other. When cooked place in a covered dish. Stir 
one tablespoonful of flour into the remaining melted butter on 
the pan and when smooth add the milk, stirring it all the time. 
Add the chopped parsley and then season with salt and pepper. 
Then put the chicken in the pan and let stand for five minutes. 
When ready to serve put in a dish and put sprays of parsley on. 

Chicken Pudding, 

A chicken. l^/^ teaspoonfuls of baking- 
1 quart of Campbell's milk. powder. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 4 eggs. 
3 cupfuls of flour. Salt. 

The chicken should be young and tender and divided at 
every joint. Season with pepper and salt and lump of butter 
the size of an egg to each chicken. Stew slowly until tender. 
Take out on a hot dish. Save the liquor for gravy. 

Make a batter of one quart of Campbell's milk, three table- 
spoons melted butter, three cups fiour, one and a half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, four well beaten eggs and a little salt. 
Put a layer of chicken in the bottom of a deep baking dish and 
pour some of the batter over it, then the rest of the chicken 
and the rest of the batter. Bake in a moderate oven thirty or 
forty minutes. Beat up an egg and stir in the gravy that was 
set aside and thicken with flour. 

44 



Scrambled Beef and Eggs. 

% pound of smoked beef. 5 eggs. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

Pick the beef in small pieces and put in a saucepan covered 
with cold water, put on the fire and as soon as the water boils 
pour it off, then pour the milk on the beef and as soon as that 
boils stir in the eggs that have been well beaten, stir with a fork 
till the eggs are "set," add a small lump of butter and remove 
from the stove at once and serve very hot. 

Stewed Heart. 

2 calves' hearts. 1 even tablespoonful of but^ 
% cup of Campbell's cream. ter. 

Flour. Salt and pepper. 

Put two calves' hearts into cold water and boil steadily until 
tender (from thirty minutes to an hour). Take them out when 
done, cut off all fat and slice into small, thin pieces; then take 
the water in which they have been cooking (there should be 
about one and one-half cups of it), add half a cup of cream, an 
even tablespoonful of butter, salt, pepper, thicken with flour 
until the consistency of sauce, then put the heart back for a mo- 
ment or two. Serve on slices of thin toast. 

Stuffed Tenderloins. 

3 pork tenderloins. 1 teaspoonful of thyme and 
2 cupfuls of bread crumbs. sage (mixed). 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Have the tenderloins washed, dried and split open. Put the 
bread and crumbs in a saucepan with the milk and butter. Place 
over the fire and when it bubbles add the meat, spice salt and 
pepper, stirring to prevent burning. Then spread the dressing 
on the split tenderloins, roll each one up and tie. Place in a 
baking pan with a cupful of boiling water and bake brown. 
A gravy maj^ be made by thickening and seasoning the drip- 
pings. Pour over the baked tenderloins. 

Stewed Tripe. 

1 pound of tripe. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

1 quart of water. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. Salt and pepper. 
1 cupful of celery leaves. 

Wash one pound of tripe and cut into inch squares. Put into 
an agate saucepan, with one quart of cold water, cover and boil 
gently for two hours. At the end of the first hour add one cupful 
of celery leaves, washed and cut fine. Mix one heaping table- 
spoonful of flour with enough of the milk to make it of the con- 
sistency of cream. At the end of the second hour stir it into the 
tripe. When it begins to boil stir in one tablespoonful of butter, 
pepper and salt to taste and add the rest of the quart of milk 
gradually. When it again begins to boil remove from the fire 
instantly, or, if it is desired to be kept hot, place the saucepan 

45 



in a pan of hot water on the stove to prevent burning. At the 
end of the two hours, the quart of water in which the tripe is 
boiling should be reduced to one pint or a little less. 

Stewed Tripe. No. 2. 

2 pounds of double tripe, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

1 pint of Camptbell's milk. 1 teaspoonful of pepper. 

Select two pounds of double tripe, well cleaned. Cut in 
pieces. Put in a isaucepan with a pint of milk and one of water, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, and eight small onions, 
cut in half. Set it on to boil and boil fast for almost ten min- 
utes, then simmer until done, which will be in half an hour. 
Put in a tureen and serve with the milk and onions. 

Tripe in Butter. 

iy2 pounds of honey-comb 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

tripe. 1 cupful of sifted flour. 

1 egg. 

Wipe one and one-half pounds of honey-combed tripe well; 
pint of milk (scant pint), one cup of sifted flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt. Have batter very stiff, if not flour enough add a little 
more to stiffen and one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baK- 
ing powder. Dip both sides of tripe into this and fry in hot fat. 

Curried Rabbit. 

1 rabbit. 3 ounces of butter. 

3 dessertspoonfuls of curry i^ lemon. 

powder. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

6 oniony. 14 teaspoonful ground cloves. 

5 cloves of garlic. 

Empty, skin and Avash the rabbit; cut up neatly, mince the 
garlic and cut the onion into thin slices, fry in butter until a nice 
brown color, but do not allow them to blacken; pour in the milk 
which should be boiling; mix the cuiTy powder and flour with a 
little cold milk, add to the other ingredients and simmer gently 
for half an hour or better. Serve with an edging- of boiled rice 
around. 



VEGETABLES. 

Baked Beans. 

Soak one pint of small beans in water over night. Let them 
be washed and boil in the morning to a scald. Then pour off the 
water. Add more boiling water and let boil till skins crack 
open. Then put in a dish to bake with one teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-fourth cupful butter and water 
enough to cover the beans. Let them bake five hours in a 
closely-covered dish. As the water cooks out add Campbell's 
milk to keep them moist. 

46 



Boiled Cabbage. 

Select a white, firm head, remove green outer leaves, cut into 
eight or more pieces and wash thoroughly. Place over tire in 
cold water. Boil ten minutes, pour oflt" water, adding fresh, re- 
peat this three times. When nearly done pour off water, add 
enough of Campbell's milk to just cover cabbage and salt to 
taste; boil ten minutes and serve. 

French Cabbage. 

Cut half a head of cabbage into coarse pieces; take the yolks 
of three eggs, half a pint of Campbell's milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Heat the butter, milk and eggs together and pour 
over the cabbage, when cold add the salt and the vinegar. 

Escalloped Carrots. 

Put into a baking dish a layer of j- oung carrots scraped and 
sliced thin, sprinkle with pepper, salt, a little flour, and bits of 
butter, then another layer seasoned as before, till the dish is 
nearly full. Cover with Campbell's milk and cream and bake 
until tender. 

Stewed Carrots. 

Wash and scrape the carrots in moderately thin slices, let 
them cook till quite tender, and then let them dry in saucepan. 
Pour a quart of Campbell's sweet milk over the carrots and boil 
for a few seconds. Pepper and salt and serve at once. 

Stewed Celery. 

Cut the celery into inch lengths, cover with cold water and 
stew until tender. Turn off the water and supply its place with 
enough of Campbell's milk to cover the celery. When this be- 
gins to boil stir in a good lump of butter, rolled in flour. Pepper 
and salt to taste and stew gently Ave minutes. 

Green Corn. 

Cut from the cob, splitting the grains and removing the re- 
mainder with the back of the knife so as to leave the hull; stew 
fifteen minutes in boiling water just enough to keep it from 
burning; then cover with Campbell's milk, previously heated 
and stew ten minutes longer, add a large lump of butter cut 
into bits and rolled in flour. Season to suit the taste with salt 
and pepper, and if the com is not sweet a trifle of sugar. Boil 
five minutes longer and serve. 

Egg Plant. 

Peel and cut in quarters or eighths (according to size) ; soak 
in salt water about one hour, boil until tender, in salted water, 
drain off water, mash and beat/ fine with a fork, add bread 

47 



crumbs in equal quantity, a little salt, pepper and one and one- 
half teaspoonf uls of Campbell's cream. Stir together well and 
bake in buttered dish. From ten to twenty minutes will be suffi- 
cient, until nicely brown. 

Calico or Vegetable Hash. 

Two quarts of finely sliced potato, one carrot, one blood red 
beet, two small white turnips. These should be cooked and 
chopped in small pieces; two raw onions chopped fine and a 
small piece of celery and parsley. Put them in a stew pan, 
cover tight and set in the oven. When hot pour over a gravy 
of drawn butter and Campbell's cream. Stir together and serve. 

Onions. 

Drop onions in briskly boiling water, boil for fifteen min- 
tes. Drain and cook (preferably in another saucepan), in Camp- 
bell's milk diluted with water, until very tender, add a lump of 
butter and serve. 

Escalloped Onions. 

Peel and parboil one quart of white onions. Cut up in small 
pieces when done. Put a layer of bread crumbs in the bottom of 
a deep dish, then a layer of onions, season with pepper and salt 
and lumps of butter; continue with alternate layers of crumbs 
and onions until the dish is nearly full. Cover bountifully with 
milk and bake for half an hour. 

French Peas. 

Pour the contents of two cans of French peas into a colander 
and wash with cold water for a minute. Turn them into a gran- 
ite saucepan, then add one cup of Campbell's milk, a little but- 
ter, pepper and salt; keep well back on stove as the peas simply 
want to be heated. 

Note.— The same method may be used for very small fresh 
peas. Cook in the ordinary way and cover with milk according 
to the foregoing receipt. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Cut six cold-boiled potatoes into small pieces and cover well 
with Campbell's milk. Dust a little flour over them, put in a 
good-sized lump of butter and season well with pepper and salt. 
Turn them into a saucepan and cook slowly for twenty minutes, 
as the milk is apt ot boil away, and the potatoes become dry and 
not "creamy" if allowed to cook too fast. 

Creamed Baked Potatoes. 

Slice boiled potatoes and hard-boiled eggs, place them in 
layers in a buttered pudding pan. Pour Campbell's cream over 
all and bake in a moderate oven until light brown. 

48 



Delmonico Potatoes. 

Cut up the potatoes, after peeling them, into small pieces. 
Put in a tin dish a layer of potatoes, then salt, pepper and small 
pieces of butter, here and there, also sprinkle some flour over 
them, then another layer of potatoes, salt, pepper, butter and 
flour as before, and so on until the basin is filled. Pour Camp- 
bell's milk over the whole until covered. Bake in a hot oven 
from a half to three quarters of an hour. 

Escalloped Potatoes. 

Cut one pint of cold boiled potatoes into thin slices and sea- 
son. Place in a dish a layer of sauce made of half a pint of 
Campbell's milk, salt, butter size of an egg, when the milk boils, 
mix a tablespoonf ul of flour with a little milk and stir in, alter- 
nate a layer of potatoes and sauce until all is used, cover the top 
with cracker crumbs and bake twenty minutes or until brown. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Pare the potatoes clean, keep in cold water until ready to 
boil, cook in boiling water until tender but not to pieces, sprinkle 
suflftciently with salt, after draining the water from them. 
Set the liettle back on the range, without the lid to let the steam 
pass off; shake the kettle and they should look white and mealy. 
Have ready Campbell's milk, hot, with a good lump of butter t6 
hold them together, but not enough to make them creamy. 
Beat and stir with a silver fork as it makes them lighter than to 
use a potato masher. Pile in a deep dish, do not cover, but pass 
immediately while plates are hot. Let each one add pepper ac- 
cording to taste, but do not use it for decoration. A well in the 
top in which is placed a lump of butter is better. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake some nice, medium-sized potatoes, and as soon as done 
cut in half and scrape out and mix Campbell's cream with them 
to moisten, piece of butter, salt and pepper to taste, one egg is 
plenty if there are not too many potatoes. Put the mixture back 
in the skins and stand on end. Beat the whites of eggs stiff and 
drop on top of each half put in a hot oven a moment to brown. 

*♦ Little Whack." 

A rianx Dish. 

Pell lightly and very clean, /sufiicient good, mealy potatoes 
for the number who are to sup. Cook in the usual way, taking 
care that the water boils when the potatoes are put in; cut any 
large ones so as to make uniformity of size; salt is added to 
the water before potatoes are put in. When done pour water 
off and mash the potatoes quite fine. Then pour on them Camp- 
bell's milk heated almost to boiling point, as new and creamy 
as possible, sufficient to make a thick doughlike paste, which is 
to be vigorously beaten or stirred, milk, as above, to be added 

49 



without cessation of beating at intervals until the desired con- 
sistency is attained, viz.: about thin enough to just flovr like very 
thick molasses. The stirring should continue w^ith as little in- 
terruption as possible for at least half an hour. 

Note. — In the Isle of Man, where this dish originated ages 
ago, the time-honored custom was to cook the potatoes in a large 
pot which was not more tlian half full when the potage was 
ready for the table. This huge caldron was set on the floor and 
each of the young people present— the occasion being usually 
like a candy spree — took turn about at plying the two-foot pot 
stick in stirring the mixture. The orthodox, indeed, only allow- 
able method of doing this was for the performer to describe the 
figure 8 with the stick, which perfectly stirred the contents of 
the pot and which movement produced the sound against the 
sides of the pot not unlike "tittle-whack"; hence the name of the 
dish which was long considered a delicacy in rural Manxland. 
The more vigorous and continuous the beating, kept up until the 
food was not too far cooled for table, the better the dish. 

Succotash. 

rirs. H. W, Beecher's Receipt. 

Boil lima or small white beans fifteen minutes, then pour off 
the water and again cover the beans with fresh boiling water 
and boil until tender. Cook the corn on the cob to secure all 
sweetness from the cob. Put the corn on to boil twenty minu- 
tes before the beans are done. When the corn is done, cut it 
from the cob with a thin, sharp knife (be careful not to cut too 
close to the cob), and scrape off all that adheres. Put to the 
beans, two-thirds more corn than beans, adding from the water 
in which they were boiled what liquor may be needed, after first 
putting in a cup and a half of Campbell's cream, and add butter, 
salt and pepper to suit the taste. 

Old = Fashioned Succotash. 

Put one pound of pork over the fire in cold water enough 
to cover it well, two hours and a half before dinner. Two hours 
before dinner add three pints of stringed beans, cut into small 
pieces. Let these cook an hour and a half, then add a piece of 
baking soda the size of a pea, or an eighth of a teaspoonf ul, and 
immediately afterward three pints of corn which has been 
removed from the cob by scraping after the kernels have been 
cut through the center by a sharp knife. Add salt to taste and 
half a pint of Campbell's milk. Drop a piece of butter half the 
size of an egg into the vegetable dish before pouring in the 
succotash. This is a dish for a cool day rather than a hot one 
and may be made in winter with canned corn, which is not 
nearly as good, however. 

Fried Tomatoes.' 

Take six large, solid tomatoes, slice them into slices half or 
three-quarters of an inch thick, without removing the skin. 

50 



Fry them in very hot butter until browned on both sides, lay 
them on a platter and pour into the butter and juice that remain 
in the frying pan one cupful of Campbell's milk, thickened with 
a tablespoonf ul of flour. Season with salt and pepper, cook five 
or six minutes and pour over the slices of tomato. This is an ex- 
cellent lunch dish, but care must be taken not to burn the toma- 
toes, and to have the butter very hot in the pan before adding 
the slices of tomato. 

Scrambled Tomatoes. 

Stew five or six good-sized tomatoes and let them cool. Take 
six eggs, beat whites and yolks separately. Into the yolks put 
a igood teacupf ul of Campbell's milk. Add pepper and salt and 
stir in the whites and tomatoes, put immediately into a hot pan, 
well buttered and stir it until the eggs are well cooked. Place 
on small squares of buttered toast and serve at once. 



FRITTERS, PANCAKES ETC. 

Plain Fritters. 

Flap- Jacks. 

3 eggs. ^ to % pint of Camp-bell'd 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. milk. 

Beat the eggs thoroughly and strain them through a fine 
sieve. Add the flour gradually and add the milk, beating the 
mixture till it attains the consistency of cream. The quantity 
of milk required varies with the flour, some taking up much 
more moisture than others. Drop small portions into lard that 
is smoking hot. When lightly colored, turn them and when 
cooked drain them on brown paper. Serve with syrup or with 
sugar and lemon or orange or with honey. 

Apple Fritters. 

2 eggs. 1 heaping teaspoonful of bale- 
1 pint of Campbell's milk. ing powder. 

1 pint of flour. 2 or 3 large apples. 

% teaspoonful of salt. Rind of i/^ lemon. 

The apples may be chopped and mixed with the batter or 
may be cored, cut into thin slices and dipped in the mixture. 
Lard is better than butter for all kinds of fritters. 

Bread Pancakes. 

1 large cupful of bread 2V2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 

crumbs. baking powder. 

1 pound of flour. 1% pints of Campbell's milk. 

3 eggs. 

Only the crumb of bread should be used. The crumbs and 
baking powder should be mixed thoroughly with the flour. Make 

51 



a well in the flour and drop into it the well-beaten eggs. Stir the 
milk in gradually. Bake on a hot griddle. 

Clam Fritters. 

25 hard-shell clams. % teaspoonful of baking pow- 

2 eg-gs. der. 

1 pint of flour. Salt and pepper. 

1 pint of CampbeH's milk. 

Chop the clams and remove any hard lumps which defy 
the knife. Beat the eggs without separating tlie whites from 
the yolks. Put milk and eggs together, whisking thoroughly and 
add them, gradually, to the sifted flour, wliich should not ex- 
ceed a scant pint and with which the baking powder has been 
mixed. Stir the clams into the batter. Have the lard smoking 
and drop the fritters from a tablespoon. They should be turned 
with a silver knife and removed with a perfoi-ated pancake 
turner. Never prick with a fork either while cooking or on re- 
moving from the pan. They should be drained on paper. If pre- 
ferred the fritters may be cooked on a griddle like pancakes, in 
which case the batter must be slightly thicker. 

Clam Fritters. No. 2. 

30 large clams, cut in two. 1 quart of CamiplDeirs milk. 

3 pints of flour. % pint of clam juice. 

2 eggs. 

Put the flour into basin, add eggs, well beaten, milk and 
clam juice, beat batter until free from lumps, then stir in clams. 
Put lard in frying pan, heat to boiling, drop in batter by spoon- 
fuls, fry brown on one side, then turn and fry brown on other. 

Corn Fritters. 

6 or 7 ears of corn, grated. 1 tablespoonful of melted but- 
1 tablespoonful of flour. ter. 

1 tablespoonful of Campbell's 1 egg, well-beaten, 

milk or cream. i/^ teas^poonful of salt. 

Mix together in the order named and beat well, then fry in 
hot lard. 

Cornlets. 

3 ears of green corn. 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. Flour enough for a stiff bat- 
% teaspoonful of pepper. ter. 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of baking pow> 
1 egg. der. 

With sharp knife cut the kernels of corn through the center 
from the top of the corn to the bottom. Then scrape the ears 
thoroughly and the soft inner part of the kernels only will come 
away. Add to this the milk and egg, beaten lightly, pepper, 
salt, sugar and last of all about one cup of flour, into which has 
been sifted one teaspoonful of baking powder. Have a kettle 
half full of smoking hot lard, fry the mixture by the spoonful, 
place the "cornlets" when a rich brown in a hot dish on a clean 
napkin. Good with cold meat ,for supper. 



Corn Patties. 

12 ears of corn. 4 eg^gs. 

1 teacupful Campbell's milk. 1 saltspoonful of salt. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of Pejpper to taste, 
flour. 

Cut lengthwise with a sharp knife through the center of each 
row of corn kernels. Scrape out the soft contents, leaving the 
thin skin of the kernels on the ear. This is the only proper way 
to prepare corn that is removed from the ear. Beat the egg» 
well, with yolks and whites together, add the corn, beating all 
the while, then the salt and milk, and finally the flour. Drop 
spoonfuls of the mixture upon a griddle and bake like griddle 
cakes. These patties require somewhat longer cooking than 
wheat or bread cakes, as they are thicker. If the corn is old and 
the ears very full more milk is required, but do not increase the 
quantitj^ of flour, as too much flour renders them .solid and de- 
stroys the tenderness which is their chief characteriistic. 

Cream Cakes. 

Beat with a pint of rich cream, flour enough to allow it to 
just drop from the spoon, give a few minutes vigorous light 
beating, add one-half teaspoonf ul of salt and bake on a hot grid- 
dle. Serve hot. Do not split with knife but tear open; do not 
bake in rings but drop from a spoon. 

Flannel Cakes. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 2 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of liquid 1 tablespoonful of salt. 

yeast. Flour enough to make a 

1 tablespoonful of butter. rather thick batter. 

Mix the flour, yeast, milk and salt over night. Add the but- 
ter melted, and the eggs, well beaten, just before cooking. 

Indian Pancakes. 

1 quart of yellow corn meal. 4 eggs. 

2 quarts of Campbell's milk. Salt. 

Beat the eggs and stir them into the milk, then add the meal 
to which the salt has been added. No baking powder, yeast or 
leaveniAg of any kind is required. 

No flatters. 

1 pint of flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of baking pow- 2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk, 
der. 5 eggs. 

Make a thin batter with the above ingredients. Have ready 
hot stewed apple made of greenings or fall pippins. Rub a 
scant spoonful of butter or beef drippings over the bottom of 
a hot flying pan, pour in large ladleful of batter and fry quickly. 
Lay on a dinner plate and spread on the hot apple sauce. 
Sprinkle with white sugar and a little grated nutmeg and keep 
warm. Put more batter in the frying pan and add several lay- 

53 



ers of the same, ending with the stewed apple. Serve hot, cut in 
quarters like a pie. Bits of butter on the apple of each layer 
adds to the flavor and richness. 

French Pancakes. 

1 level cupful of flour. i^ cupful of Caii^)beirs milk. 

2 egg-s, well beaten. 

Mix and brown on a hot buttered pan, then spread with jelly 
or fruit jam, form into little rolls and sift over the rolls a little 
powdered sugar. 

German Pancakes. 

To be served with Heat. 

1 egg-. Parsley or chives. 

1 large tablespoonful of flour. Campbell's milk. 
Pinch of salt. 

Mix as for ordinary pancakes, using milk enough to make a 
thin batter. Cook on a griddle or in a frying pan lightly greased. 

Hominy Griddle Cakes. 

1 large coffeecupful of hom« 1 teaspoonful of baking pow- 

iny. der. 

1 large coffeecupful of pre- l egg. 

pared flour. 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

1 saltspoonful of salt. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Boil the hominy and let it get quite cold. Mix it thoroughly 
with the flour, through which the baking powder should have 
been sifted, add the egg, well beaten, and then the milk, grad- 
ually. Put the butter, melted, in last. 

Pork Fritters. 

% pounf of fat salt pork. 2 teaspoontuls of baking pow- 

^ pint of Campbell's milk. der. 

1 pint of flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 egg. 

Cut the pork into two-inch square slices and fry crisp and 
brown. Sift the flour, add the baking powder and salt and sift 
again. Then stir in the milk, and last add the beaten egg. Put 
the slices of fried pork into the batter and heat the pork fat 
smoking hot and drop in a large spoonful of batter with one 
slice of pork for each fritter. Fry a delicate brown. Should be 
light and tender. Be sure to have the pork fat hot or the frit- 
ters will absorb the grease. 

Potato Pancake. 

Make the usual pancake dough of eggs, milk and flour; have 
the lard smoking hot, pour in dough enough for quite a thick 
cake, have finely minced raw potatoes, sprinkle over cake when 
in the pan; when done on one side, slide off onto a greased plat- 
tor, and turn it into the pan and brown on that side. When done 
sprinkle over, pepper, salt, finely cut parsley and a little of 
Campbell's cream. 

54 



Raw Potato Pancake. 

1 quart of potatoes. Flour to make a thin batter. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Baking powder (2 teaspoon- 
4 eggs. fuls for each cup of flour). 

Grate the potatoes into cold water; after they have settled, 
pour ofi the water and add a pint of the milk heated to boiling 
point, then the eggs well beaten, the salt and the flour Into 
which the baking powder has been sifted. Pry in lard, till they 
are a light brown. 

Rice Cakes. 

2 large cupfuls of boiled rice. V^. teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. Scant pint of Campbell's 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- milk. 

der. Scant cupful of flour. 

Mi5* all well together and fry on a griddle in very hot fat. 

Rice Fritters. 

1/^ pint of rice. 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

2 quarts of Campbell's milk. 

Boil rice soft in double boiler, when cold add four well- 
beaten eggs and one-half pint of flour. Fry slowly in butter. 

Sour riilk Pancakes. 

Sour milk or cream. Flour to make rather stiff 

Soda. bater. 

1 &^^ for every pint of liquid. 

The milk or cream may be saved from day to day until 
enough is secured. The quantity of soda required will depend 
upon'ihe sourness of the milk. Begin with half a teaspoonful 
and keep on adding soda until the milk froths and is sweet to the 
taste. Add the ^g% or eggs, well beaten, then the flour and bake 
on a hot griddle. 



BREAD, ROLLS, BISCUIT, ETC. 

Good home-made bread is not difficult to make. There is 
more in knowing what to avoid than in committing to memory 
the ingredients and proportions stated as necessary by good 
cooks, whose opinions differ widely. The exact quantity of 
flour can never be given as not only do brands vary with regard 
to the quantity of moisture that the flour will absorb, but the 
flour itself, in spite of patent processes, will differ according to 
the crop, whether it be winter of spring wheat and the grain of 
which it is composed. The matter must, therefore, be left to 
judgment. Dough should never be sticky, but soft enough to 
work easily when it is in process of being kneaded, 

.Some cooks mix potatoes with the flour. These are mashed 

55 



finely and used in the proportion of about half a pound to three 
quarts of flour. It is not advisable to use them in warm weather 
as they will sour readily. Lard, butter or shortening of some 
kind keeps the bread moist, but to preserve the bread flavor as 
distinct from biscuit, not more than a heaping tablespoonful 
should be put into three quarts of flour. The quantity (three 
quarts) is mentioned because that will make two ordinary 
loaves. 

Care must be taken in dissolving yeast that the water is not 
more than lukewarm. The same rule applies to the liquid with 
which the sponge is mixed. If too hot it will scald the flour and 
the bread will be heavy and pasty. If cold the sponge will not 
rise well. In summer the milk or water need not be heated. It 
is the universal opinion that milk makes better bread than, 
water. It is not only sweeter, but keeps moist longer. In using 
milk less salt is required than for water. 

With home-made yeast it was necessary to set a sponge, but 
with the yeast now sold( everywhere it is possible to set the 
dough to rise and be able to knead it in a few hours. Where 
bread is set over night it should be placed so that no draught 
will blow upon it and where it will be exposed to an even 
warmth, not warm on one side and cold on the other. 

In mixing, sift the flour, add the salt and then the shorten- 
ing. It is best to rub this through the dry flour, freeing it from 
lumps before adding the liquid. Then make a well into which 
pour first the yeast, a little more than half a cake is needed for 
the quantity of flour given. Stir it lightly with the flour but, 
before it thickens, add the milk (warmed in cold weather), a 
little at a time, pouring it directly upon the sponge and working 
the flour in by turning it over lightly with the hand. For the 
three quarts of flour a pint and a half of milk is needed. Of 
course the milk may be diluted, warmed, by mixing it with 
water, but pure milk makes the best bread. W^hen the sponge is 
a thick batter, work in more flour until it is smooth and ceases 
to be sticky. It may be tested by pressing the knuckles down 
into the center. If they leave a deep dent and the dough springs 
back it is of the right consistency. 

In the morning, or when the bread has cracked in several 
places, take it out and place it upon a board, li,ghtly floured. No 
more flour must be used than is necessary to prevent the sponge 
from sticking, for it would make the bread heavy. The process 
of kneading is too well known to require explanation. Much de- 
pends upon using the palm of the hand for the purpose. The 
more that bread is kneaded the closer and finer will be the tex- 
ture. After working the entire mass, cut it into loaves and 
knead each separately moulding it into well-shaped loaves 
which should be put into greased pans and allowed to stand 
until they become light and smooth. Some cooks reknead the 
loaves and set them to rise for the third time, but this is not 
necessary. 

Bread ordinarily requires an hour for baking. The pans 
should be turned at the half hour. The oven may be tested by 

56 



putting a sheet of white paper into it. If the paper turns a dark 
yello\Y the heat is right for bread or fruit cakes. To tell whether 
the bread is sutficiently baked or not, press it lightly on the side 
least crusted. If it spring back at once it is done. If it remains 
dented set it into the oven again. 

Those who do not like crustj' bread may prevent the crust 
from hardening by laying a cloth slightly dampened over the 
loaves while they are hot. Bread should always be removed 
from the pans and stood on end to cool. It should not be put 
into a box or jar until thoroughly cold. 

Mother's Home=Made Bread. 

N. w. F. c. 

(Sponge to be set over night. One quart of Campbell's milk 
with enough boiling water to make it warm, one small teacup- 
ful of hop yeast, two tablespoonfuls of lard and butter mixed. 
Two tablespoonfuls w^hite sugar, one of salt, and one even table- 
spoonful of soda added in the morning before mixing the bread, 
dissolved in hot water), and flour to make a stiff batter. If 
kept warm it should be light and foamy in the early morning. 
Now make a hole in the middle of a pan of sifted flour, pour in 
by degrees with one hand the foaming sponge, while with the 
other work in the flour, turning the imn as the left hand is re- 
leased until the flour is well kneaded in, so the mass is smooth 
and free from lumps, just stiff enough to be turned free from the 
pan, and to allow the right hand to make a deep, free dent in 
the middle. If the sponge is cold in the morning, enough warm 
milk or water should be added in mixing the bread to make it 
the right temperature. Keep the dough moderately warm until 
it has risen light and high, then mould it into loaves on a knead- 
ing board. If right it will not need much flour to do this. Put 
in oval pans, greased, not floured, let it rise again, and just be- 
fore putting in the oven, heated to the right temperature, prick 
with a fork to the bottom of the loaf to let out the gas and pre- 
vent holes. Bake one hour. The temperature of the oven can be 
gauged only by experience. 

Baking Powder Bread. 

4 quarts of flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

] ounce of butter or lard. 2 large cupfuls of Campbeirs 
4 teaspoonfuls of baking- pow- milk, 

der. 

Mix the salt and baking powder through the flour. Rub the 
shortening well in, add the milk, which does not need to be 
warmed. Mix into a smooth dough. The foregoing recipe will 
make two large loaves. 

Twist Bread. 

1 quart of flour. 1 cupful of Campbell's miJk. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 1 egg. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 1 teacupful of yeast. 
Salt to taste. 

57 



Make the yeast by dissolving a yeast calce in a cup of milk. 
Mix the dough as for ordinary bread. After it has risen, knead 
it well, let it rise again, knead a second time, cut it into three 
pieces, butter each strip, then braid, let it rise once more. Bake 
half an hour in a hot oven. When done glaze with the well- 
beaten yolk of an egg. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 1 cupful of Graham flour. 
1 cupful of sour milk. 1 



1 cupful of molasses. 1 teaspoonful of sail 

1 cupful of rye flour. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 cupful of Indian flour. 

Mix in the order given, dissolve the soda in a little milk and 
put in the last thing. Put in a tin mould or form and steam for 
three or four hours. Eat warm. 

Boston Brown Bread. No. 2. 

1 pint of corn meal. 1 rounding teaspoonful of 

1 pint of rye meal. soda. 

V2 cupful of molasses. 1 small teaspoonful of salt, 

1 pint of sour milk. 

Mix the meals, salt and soda (dry) together, then add molas- 
ses and milk. The milk must be quite sour and thick. Pour into 
pudding boiler and steam three or four hours, the water kept 
boiling hard. If the pint of milk does not make the mixture 
very soft, add sweet milk or water. 

It is sometimes baked half an hour after being boiled. 

Johnny Cake and Hoe Cake. 

The genuine Johnny cake and hoe cake are merely corn meal 
(yellow or white) mixed with salt and water and baked in front 
of a blazing fire or under the embers. In the South, as will be 
seen by the recipe given for Virginia corn bread, the preference 
is given to the white meal. In New lEngland, on the contrary, 
yellow meal is preferred and cooks in both sections have im- 
proved the original cake and added to it eggs, milk and butter in 
varying proportions. Sweet or sour milk may be used. When 
the latter is used saleratus takes the place of soda. Thus 
Johnny cake has become transformed into a luxury fit for the 
table of the millionaire, at other times than when that table is 
spread in the cabin of his ranch. 

Corn Bread. 

Little more than 1 pint of sour Butter the size of an egg. 

milk. 2 eggs. 

2 cupfuls of cornmeal. 2 small teaspoonfuls of soda. 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Mix the butter and sugar, then the milk, flour, beaten eggs 
and lastly the soda, dissolved in a little of the milk. 

58 



Virginia Corn Bread. 

1 pint of white cornmeal. 1 cup of boiled rice or hominy. 

1/^ pint of flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of lard and 

1 full teaspoonful of salt. butter, mixed. 

3 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow^ 

2 tablespoonfuls of granulated der. 

sugar. 1 pint of milk. 

Sift the flour and meal, with baking powder, into a bowl, 
then add the rice, mixed with the lard, and salt, beat eggs separ- 
ately, add yolks to milk and sugar, pour on the meal beating 
vigorously until smooth, now lastly add the whites; bake in a 
cake pan, well buttered, or in gem pans. A quick oven is re- 
quired. 

Southern Corn Bread. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

2 cupfuls of cornmeal. der. 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. Vs cupful of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Mix flour, cornmeal, salt, baking powder and sugar together. 
Melt the butter and stir in. Beat the eggs quite stiff. Pour one 
cup of milk on the eggs, stir them in, and then add the rest of 
the milk. Stir quickly a few times. Have pan well buttered 
and warm. Put in a hot oven and bake twenty minutes. 

Egg Bread. 

1 cupful of white meal. 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. 1 heaping teaspoonful of bak- 
Butter size of an egg. ing powder. 

2 cupfuls of boiling water. 

Sift into a bowl the meal, salt and sugar. Add one lump of 
nice butter, then scald with two cupfuls of boiling water, stir 
rapidly until the meal becomes a smooth batter, add the milk, 
then the eggs, beaten light. Dissolve one heaping teaspoonful 
of baking powder in a small quantity of milk and stir it briskly 
into the egg bread. Pour into well-buttered earthenware bak- 
ing dish and bake in quick oven thirty minutes. 

Graham Bread. 

1 quart of Graham flour. Butter the size of a walnut. 

1 teacupful of rye flour. 3 pint of milk. 

1 teacupful of wheat flour. Vs pint of water in which has 

V. teaspoonful of salt. been, dissolved one com- 

3 tablespoonfuls Porto Rico pressed yeast cake, 
molasses. 

Sift rye and wheat flour, sift Graham flour and save the 
bran, mix all the flour and bran together. Make a well in the 
center of it, have the milk and water luke warm, add butter, 
salt, molasses, milk, water and yeast, mix all thoroughly to- 
gether and set in a warm place to rise. When well risen mix 
or knead well but do not use any more flour, put in greased 

59 



pan,s to rise again, when light bake in a moderately quick oven 
about fortj'-five minutes. 

Rice Bread. 

Allow one pound of rice to four pounds of wheat flour. The 
rice must be boiled in Campbell's milk until tender enough to 
mash. Mix the rice into the flour just as you would rub lard 
into it. Dissolve a cake of yeast in a quart of warm milk and 
pour it into the rice and flour with two tablespoonfuls of salt 
and three of sugar. The dough should be quite soft to the touch. 
Knead well and set to rise over night. In the morning knead 
thoroughly and make into loaves. Put into buttered tins. Let 
them rise to twice their bulk and then bake one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. This receipt makes four loaves. 

Breakfast Rolls. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Piece of butter size of a small 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. egg. 

y^ cake of yeast. 

Scald the milk into which the sugar and butter have been 
stirred. Let, cool, and then add flour to make a soft sponge and 
the yeast dissolved in a quarter of a cup of lukewarm water. 
Stir all together with a spoon and set in a Avarm place to rise. 
When light, roll out without kneading, cut into rounds and fold 
each round so that one side laps half over the other. Put into 
a tin, stand again in warm place and when risen bake in a toler- 
ably hot oven three-quarters of an hour. 

Custard Rolls. 

For Tea or Dessert. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 1 teaspoonful of ground cin- 

4 eggs. namon. 

1 cupful of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 6 stale milk rolls. 

Mix milk, eggs, salt and half of the sugar together and beat 
two minutes. Divide each roll into two parts and grate off all 
the crust. Mix these crumbs with the remaining sugar and cin- 
namon. Lay the rolls in the custard and let them soak but not 
too soft to handle. Take them out carefully and dip into the 
crumbs covering each roll entirely. Heat the butter in a large 
frying pan and fry the rolls a rich brown. If for dessert they 
should be eaten with wine sauce. 

Parker House Rolls. 

2 quarts of flour. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 pint of Campbell's milk. Little salt. 

1 egg. . V2 cake of yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Boil the milk, put the butter in it, let it cool, then put it in 
the flour with the yeast, sugar, ^^^, etc. Mix thoroughly with 
your hands and knead twenty minutes. Put to rise till quite 

60 



light, then roll out until about half an inch thick, cut round, 
spread with butter and turn over, let rise again about two hours 
till very light and bake very quickly in a hot oven. 

White riountain Rolls. 

4 cupfuls of flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. ^4 cupful of butter. 

'^ of a yeast cake dissolved 1/2 teaspoonful of salt. 

in a little lukewarm water. White of 1 egg, beaten stiff. 

Have the milk w^arm. First place the tlour in the bowl, 
then add the melted butter, warm but not hot, then the salt, 
sugar, yeast and milk. Mix well, then add the white of the egg, 
mix in thoroughly with your hand. Let them rise over night. 
In the morning shape them and bake in a quick oven after thej' 
have stood in moderately warm place for half an hour. 

Raised Biscuit or Rolls. 

4 good-sized boiled potatoes. Piece of butter s-ze of a small 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. egg. 

Pinch of salt. Vi cake of yeast. 

Grate fine four good-sized boiled potatoes, and stir into one 
pint of scalded milk. Add a piece of butter the size of a small 
egg (melted), a pinch of salt, and when the mixture is lukewarm 
add one-quarter of a cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in a 
little warm water. iStir in flour to make a sponge the consis- 
tency of rather thin bread sponge. Let stand over night in a 
moderately warm room, covered with the moulding board and 
protected from draughts. In the morning add soda the size of 
a pea, and mix into biscuit, not rolling out the sponge, but 
shaping with the fingers on the moulding board as one would 
shape loaves of bread. When the biscuit are again light bake in 
a pretty hot oven three-quarters of an hour. This" recipe has 
never failed to produce wholesome and delicious hot-bread, 
superior in many respects to much shortened and sweetened hot 
rolls. 

Raised Biscuit. No 2. 

V-A pints of flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Pour on the above, boiling water sufficient to scald the flour, 
liet stand until lukewarm. Then stir in a small tablespoonful 
(even full) of "emptyings," or a quarter of a cake of compressed 
yeast dissolved in a little warm water. Let all stand until light, 
four of flve hours. Scald three pints of milk. When about blood 
warm add one tablespoonful of sugar. Stir into the sponge to- 
gether with a pint of grated potatoes. Stir in as much flour as 
you can with a spoon and let rise again. When light break off 
small pieces of the sponge and mould into biscuits or long rolls. 
Put in a pan and set in a warm place. When risen bake in a 
fairly hot oven three-quarters of an hour. 

61 



Morning Biscuit. 

1 quart of flour. 1 pint of sour milk. 
Vz teaspoonful of salt. ^ teaspoonful of soda. 

2 tatolespoonfuls of yeast. 

Put the soda into the milk at the moment you are ready to 
mix it, then work it Into a dough very thoroughly. Rub into 
dough, half a cupful of butter, knead thoroughly and then cut 
off small bits and shape them into biscuits. Lay them in the 
bake pan, cover closely with a bread cloth and let them stand 
over night in a warm place in winter and a cool place in sunJ- 
mer. Bake in the morning for breakfast. 

Democrats. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuLs of cream of 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. tartar. 

2 small cupfuls of sugar. Salt. 

1 tableapoonful of butter. 4 cupfuls (even) of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately. To the 
j^olks add the sugar, then the milk, melted butter, soda, etc., 
lastly the whites of the eggs and the flour. 

nuffins. 

1 quart of flour. Piece of buter the size of a 
1 pint of Campibell's milk. small %^s. 

3 eggs. 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 
y2. teacupful of sugiar. baking powder. 

Mix butter and sugar together, add the eggs, that have been 
well beaten. Mix the baking powder well in the flour and add 
some of it to the other ingredients, then some of the milk and 
Sio on till the full quantity of each has Ibeen used up. Beat all 
thoroughly and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in well-but- 
tered gem pans that have been heated very hot. 

Raised Muffins. 

3 pints of Campbell's milk. % cake of yeast. 

3 eggs. 2 quarts of flour (scant). 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Mix butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, then part of the 
flour and some of the milk and so on until all has been used up. 
Dissolve the yeast in about two tablespoonfuls of warm water 
and put in the last thing. Beat all hard and let stand over 
night. If, in the morning, it smells "yeasty," dissolve a scant 
half teaspoonful of soda in a little water and mix well in the 
batter. Then pour in hot, well-buttered gem pans and bake 
quickly. 

Raised Muffins. No. 2. 

3 pints of Campbell's milk. 1 large tablespoonful butter. 

1 ^^s. V2 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 yeast cake. Flour. 



1 tablespoonful of sugar. 



62 



Mix the sugar, salt, melted butter and yeast (dissolved in a 
little lukewarm water), in tlie milk, tlien add enough flour fo 
make a light, spongy dough. Set to raise over night, and in the 
morning beat light and bake on an evenly-heated griddle in 
well-greased muffin rings, a delicate brown. Turn once only. 

German Muffins. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. 1 cake of yeast. 

1 large tablespoonful of but- Flour, 
ter. Salt. 

Mix a dough of the milk, yeast, butter, salt and flour to make 
it like a bread dough. When risen add enough flour to roll out 
very lightly to one and one-half inches thick, with the hands, 
cut out with biscuit cutter and let rise like doughnuts. Into a 
deep, old-fashioned frying pan put a large cup of boiling water, 
one tablespoonful of salt, three of lard. When boiling put in as 
many as there is room for and cover closely until done. The 
steam raises them and the lard fries them brown on one side 
and the salt flavors them. 

Old English Crumpets. 

For Two Dozen. 

5 cupfuls of flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 scant cake of yeast. 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

21^ cupfuls of Campbell's 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
milk. 

Let them rise twice. Bake in muffin rings in a moderate 
oven. 

Graham Gems. 

Graham flour. 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

1 egg. 1 cupful of water. 

Essentials for these gems are pure, sweet milk, fresh eggs, 
best grade of flour and cast iron gem pans. 

Place the gem pan on the top of the stove in front. Break 
into a good-sized earthen mixing bowl an egg, beat well and add 
the milk and the water, both of which must be ice cold. Stir this 
lightly and sift in through the fingers of the left hand the Gra- 
ham flour, stirring with the right hand to prevent lumping, to 
the consistency of stiff pancake batter. Beat it well at the last 
to aerate it, as, having no baking powder or yeast, it depends on 
the air beaten into it, to help to make it light. Now, lightly and 
quickly, grease the pan, which should be smoking hot, and drop 
in the batter, nearly filling the cups. Be as quick as possible 
about it and place the gem pan immediately in the oven, closing 
the door without jarring the stove. Bake from eighteen to 
twentj^-five minutes according to the oven. They should be 
light and often crack open. 

These gems are very wholesome and form a hygienic break- 
fast with fruit sauce or baked apples. Physicians recommend 
them for thin, ill-nourished people and with milk they are excel- 
lent for children. They should be broken and never cut with a 
knife. Good hot or cold. 

63 



Graham Gems. No. 2. 

1 cupful of Graham flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. der. 

1 cupful of wheat flour. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. 

Beat the eggs and stir the milk in with them, then add the 
flour in which the baking powder has been mixed, salt, etc. 
Beat all very thoroughly and bake in hot gem pans in a quick 
oven. 

Indian Gems. 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk, 2 eggs. 

scant. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1 cupful of wheat flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

1 cupful of Indian flour. der. 

Mix both kinds of flour and baking powder together, add the 
sugar. Beat the eggs and stir in the milk, then put all together 
and beat well. Bake in hot gem pans about fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

Hominy Cakes. 

Mix with cold boiled hominy an equal quantity of wheat flour 
until thoroughly blended. Add a teaspoonful of salt and thin 
with buttermilk into a portion of which a teaspoonful of soda 
has been dissolved. When of the consistency of griddle cakes 
add a dessertspoonful of melted butter and bake on a hot 
griddle. 

Buns. 

2 pounds of flour. % pint of Campbell's milk. 
6 ounces of brown sugar. I/2 pound of butter. 

14 cake of yeast. 

Mix the isugar with the flour, make a well in the center, 
put in the yeast dissolved in a gill of water, add the milk, luke- 
warm, as for bread, and stir in flour enougli to make it of the 
consistency of cream. Cover with a cloth and set it in a warm 
place. It will be light in about one and one-half hours. Melt 
the butter, but do not allow it to oil. Stir it into the other in- 
gredients with enough warm milk to make it into a soft dough. 
Then mould it into buns, the size of an egg. Lay these in rows, 
at least three inches apart. Set to rise until they are double in 
size. Bake in a quick oven and when done touch the tops with 
a little milk. They should bake in twenty minutes. 

Hot Cross Buns. 

As Hade by a Famous London Baker. 

Take one pint of milk and the same quantity of hot water. 
Pour them together and keep them at a temperature of 90 de- 
grees. Take six ounces of white or light brown sugar and mix 
it with a taiblespoonful of flour and two ounces of compressed 
yeast and the milk and water. iSet this to rise in a warm, but 

64 



not a hot place. While it is fermenting rub ten ounces of butter 
and lard in the proportions of about six of lard and four of but- 
ter into six ounces of white or light brown sugar, such as pre- 
viously used, add half an ounce of best mixed spice and in 
twenty or thirty minutes after the ferment has fallen knead it 
and the mixture prepared into about four pounds of flour. The 
quantity of flour varies slightly according to the quality. The 
dough should be soft as for biscuits. This quantity will make 
twenty-four buns, six to the pound. Let it rise for an hour, 
knead it again, set to rise for twenty minutes and then put 
into the oven. 

Coffee Cake. 

A German Receipt. 

iy2 pounds of flour. 6 eggs. 

% cupful of butter. Cake of yeast. 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. % cupful of sugar. 

Mix flour, milk and yeast the night before; when risen in 
the morning add the other ingredients, beat all well, let rise, 
put into a hot tin, let it rise again a little. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Cinnamon Cake. 

2 pounds of flour. 2 eggs. 

V2 pound of butter. 2 cakes of yeast. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. Almonds. 

Mix three-fourths of the flour with nearly all the milk, in 
which the yeast has all been dissolved. When risen, add the 
butter and eggs and one scant tablespoonful of sugar and the 
rest of the milk and beat all the dough thoroughly. Put in a 
square, low pan and when risen again, strew over it almonds 
cut tine, sugar and cinnamon and bits of butter, and bake care- 
fully until done in a moderate oven. Should the flour be very 
dry a little more milk can be used. 

Hefen Torte. 

V4 pound of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls Campbell's 

6 eggs. cream. 

VA pounds of flour. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

1 large tablespoonful of sugar der. 

1% cakes of yeast dissolved in Nuts, apples, currants or 

2 tablespoonfuls of Camp- raspberries. 

bell's milk. 

Place one-half of this dough in a flat pan and strew on it 
cut nuts, sugar, grated bread crumbs, chopped apples, currants, 
raspberries, cherries or any boiled fruit. Lap over the other 
one-half of the dough and cover and close up ed,ges. Spread the 
top with melted butter, sugar and cinnamon and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Radan Kuchen. 

A German Receipt. 

1 pound of flour. 2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk, 

Vi pound of butter. 1 cake of yeast. 

6 eggs. Almonds and citron. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

65 , 



Mix flour, milk and yeast tlie eveniug before. In the morn- 
ing add the other ingredients, beat well, pour into a buttered 
mould, in the bottom of which strew cut almonds and citron, 
let it rise again, bake well in a moderate oven. 

Rusks. 

An English Receipt. 

1 pound of flour. 2 ounces of loaf sugar. 

2 ounces of butter. 3 eggs. 

1/4 pint of Campbell's milk. 1 tablespoonful of yeast. 

Put milk and butter into an enameled saucepan and keep 
shaking it over the fire till the butter is melted. Mix tlour and 
sugar well together, add the eggs, well beaten, drop in the yeast 
and then alternate the milk and butter with the sifted flour 
until all the liquid is used, when work the remainder of the 
flour into a smooth dough. Let it rise, knead it when light, 
divide it into a dozen pieces and bake in a quick oven. 

Sally Lunn. 

2 cupfuls of sifted flour. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of melted but- 2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk, 
ter. Vs cake of yeast. 

Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, the whites 
to be whipped to a stiff froth. INIix all the ingredients together, 
set it to rise in a warm place. Then place it in a shallow but- 
tered pan and bake in a quick oven. 

Waffles. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. IM pounds of flour. 

5 eggs. V2 pound of butter. 

Mix well. Have your waffle irons ready and hot, buttered 
on both sides, bake. As each is baked sift sugar and cinnamon 
over and serve hot. 

Wiggs. 

An English Tea Cake. 

1 pint of Campbell's cream. 2 dessertspoonfuls of good 

1 pound of flour. liquid yeast. 

Cover it up and set it before the fire one or two hours or 
until it is light. Then Avork into it four ounces each of sugar and 
butter and one dessertspoonful of caraway seed. Make them 
into little round cakes or wiggs and bake in a quick oven. 



TOAST. 

Cut the bread in slices half an inch thick. Place them on 
a toasting fork and hold them near the fire, preferably in front, 
shaking the fork continually to prevent the crust from catching 

§6 



or bending. The majority of cooks prefer to make toast from 
bread that is at least a day old, but with a good fire toast may 
be made from bread that is fresh. It should never be dried be- 
fore toasting. 

Cream Toast. 

Having toasted the bread lay the slices of toast 
in a deep dish, and make a sauce as follows: Cream 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter together until smooth. Heat half a pint of Camp- 
bell's cream and a pint of Campbell's milk to the boiling 
lK)int, stir in the butter and flour and stir until the mixture 
thickens, adding salt to taste. When it is of the consistency of 
very thick cream take from the fire and add two eggs, beaten 
light (yolks and whites together). Stir well and pour over the 
toast. Serve very hot. This milk toast is very different from 
the "dopy" article sometimes served under the same name. 

Milk Toast. 

Toast ten slices of bread (bakers' preferred) till a nice 
brown, butter them slightly and lay on a platter in a hot place 
while a scant quart of Campbell's milk is boiling, thickened a 
little with a good tablespoonful of cornstarch (wet with a little 
cold milk). Put some boiling water, with a little salt in it in a 
vegetable dish. Take the bread, a slice at a time, with a fork 
and just dip in the water and put back on the platter, then pour 
the boiling milk over and serve at once very hot. 

French Toast. 

Make a very thin batter of eggs, Campbell's milk and flour. 
Dip slices of stale bread into it and fry on hot griddle. Serve 
with powdered sugar. Or the bread may be cut into narrow 
strips and after being fried served as sandwiches Avith layers 
of currant or other slightly acid jam between. 



CAKE. 

Good cake requires a lavish expenditure of expensive ma- 
terials. Butter, eggs, fruit and flour must be of superior qual- 
ity. Care must be used in proportioning and in mixing the in- 
gredients and the oven must be regulated so as to secure the 
heat that will produce the effect contemplated by the receipt 
given. 

Flour must always be sifted. Butter and sugar are usually 
creamed. Opinions differ as to the sugar which it is best to use. 
Some receipts call for powdered, others for granulated, w^hile 
many cooks give the preference to light brown and work it to 
whiteness. Granulated and loaf sugar are freest from adulter- 

67 



ation, but they are hard to cream. With all sugars it is neces- 
sary to test the degree of sweetness, as different refineries make 
grades varying greatly, so that no exact rule can be given. Old 
cook books direct that all ingredients be warmed before mixing. 

Coffee Cake. 

1 pint of flour. 1 teaspoonfu] of baking pow- 

1 tablespoonful of butter. der. 

1 cupful of sugar, i/^ tfeaspoonful of salt. 

% cupful of Campbell's milk. 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, 

1 egg. cinnamon and allspice. 
V4 cupful of strong coffee. V2 cupful of sultana raisins. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking powder together into a bowl, 
cut into this, with a knife, the butter. Beat the e,gg, add it to 
three-fourths of the cupful of sugar, add this to the flour and 
butter and mix to a stiff dough with the coffee and milk. 
Dredge a bread board with flour, roll the dough into a long 
strip half an inch thick. Mix the remaining sugar, spices and 
raisins together, spread this on the dough. Roll up like a jelly 
roll, cutting off in pieces half an inch thick, place in a pan cut 
side down. Bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes or until 
light brown. 

Bread Cake. 

2 ounces of butter. 2 eggs. 

2 ounces of sugar. Nutmeg or other flavoring to 

8 ounces of currants. taste. 

1 teacupful of Campbell's Bread dough, 
cream. 

Take enough light bread dou,gh to make a small loaf of cake. 
Work the butter and sugar thoroughly into it, add the eggs well 
beaten, then the cream and last of all the fruit well flavored. 
Citron, sultanas or caraway seeds may be substituted for the 
currants. 

Cookies. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. Nutmeg. 

2 eggs. Flour to make a soft dough, 

1 cupful of sour cream or but- yet stiff enough to roll well, 

termilk. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 cupful of batter. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs, well beaten, nut- 
meg, buttermilk or cream and lastly the soda dissolved in hot 
water. Bake in a quick oven. 

Crullers. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 
1 cupful of Campbell's milk. baking powder. 

Butter size of an egg. Flour enough to make a 

Nutmeg. dough that will roll out. 

1 egg. 

The secret of good crullers is in having just the right quan- 
tity of butter. Too much shortening will cause them to soak 
fat, too little makes them tough. The dough should be of the 

68 



consistency required for biscuits. Fry in pure lard, which must 
be smoking almost to scorching point. Crullers can be cooked 
to perfection in a large skillet or frying pan deep enough to 
hold sufficient lard in which they can float. Turn them with a 
silver knife thrust through the ring, taking care not to break 
or puncture them. They are done if they dry instantly on being 
lifted out of the fat. 

Cup Cake. 

3 eggs. 1 heaping teaspoonful of bak- 
iy2 cupfuls of sugar. ing powder. 

1 cupful of milk, 1 teaspoonful of lemon or 
% cupful of butter. vanilla extract. 

Cream together the butter and sugar, beating with a spoon 
until it is a creamy white mass; add yolks of eggs and flavoring, 
now add the milk. Sift flour and mix baking powder in it, add 
flour and last the beaten whites of eggs. Add one thing at a 
time and beat until thoroughly mixed, grease a pan and line 
with paper, bake in a moderately hot oven and try with a broom 
straw, about flfty minutes; a cup of nut meats may be added 
and a veiy nice cake be the result. 

Doughnuts. 

3 eggs. 1 cake of yeast. 

1 small cupful of sugar. li^ pints of Campbell's milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. P'lour enough to make a stift 
1 tablespoonful of lard. dough. 

Heat the milk until it is lukewarm. Dissolve the yeast in it. 
Mix the flour and set it to rise over night. In the morning add 
the eggs, well beaten, and the sugar and butter and lard. Roll 
out and cut into very small pieces. Fry in lard which is smok- 
ing hot. 

Oly Koeks or Dutch Doughnuts. 

Pronounced 0-Iee=cook. 

1 cupful of sugar. 3 teaspoonf uls of baking pow- 

1 large spoonful of butter. der. 

2 eggs. Flour to make a soft dough. 
1 cupful of Campbell's milk. Raisins. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Do not roll but break off the dough and place in the middle 
of each piece three or four raisins; mould round with the hands 
and fry in hot lard, covering with fine sugar when cold. 

Ginger Bread. 

1 cupful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of baking pow- 
1 cupful of butter. der. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk 2 cupfuls of flour, measured 
(sweet or sour). before sifting. 

1 cupful of molasses. Spice to taste (ginger and an- 

2 eggs. spice are best. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix the butter and sugar together until creamy. Beat the 
soda into the molasses until very light and add to the butter and 

G9 



siij^ar. Beat the eggs very light and add next. Then put in the 
milk. Sift the baking powder and flour together into the mix- 
ture and beat thoroughly. Stir in the spice last. Bake in a 
moderately quick oven. Ginger bread is best hot. 

Layer Cake. 

1 cupful of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of baking pow- 
V2 cupful of butter. der. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 
y2 cupful of Campbell's milk. lemon, rosewater or i/^ tea- 
2 cupfula of flour. spoonful of almond. 

Mix according to general directions. Spread smoothly in 
well-buttered, shallow tins and bake in a very hot oven. 

Banana Cake. 

% cvipful of butter. 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 3 cupfuls of flour. 

3 eggs. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
V2 teaspoonful of salt. der. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs, well beaten, the 
salt and flavoring and blend thorouglily. Add the milk and the 
flour and baking powder sifted together, and beat thoroughly. 
Bake in four layers in a quick oven. 

Pilling. 

6 bananas. Juice of 14 lemon. 

^ teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 pint of Campbell's cream. 

grated. Scant 14 cupful of sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Peel the bananas, scrape the outer surface off and slice them 
on to .three layers of the cake. Sprinkle the same with the 
sugar and nutmeg, mixed, and the lemon juice. Whip the 
cream, sweetened and flavored, stiff, and spread lightly on the 
three layers already fixed. Put the layers together; place fourth 
laj'er on top and spread thickly with cream. 

Chocolate Filling. 

1 cupful of granulated sugar. I/2 cake of chocolate (unsweet- 
V4, teacupful of water. ened). 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Grate the chocolate with the syrup formed by the sugar and 
water. Beat it until thick and smooth and continue doing so 
until it is cold. This makes a very thick tilling which hardens 
into the consistency of candy when cold. 

Chocolate Filling. No. 2. 

^2 cupfuls Campbell's milk. 1 cupful of sugar. 

\i cake of Baker's chocolate, 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch. 

grated. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 
1 egg. 

Mix the chocolate, egg, sugar, cornstarch and stir into the 
milk as soon as it boils. Boil all until thick and flavor after it is 
taken from the stove. 

V 70 



Cream Cake. 

2 cupf uls of flour. % cupful of butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 3 eggs. 

der. % cupful of Campbell's milk. 

1 cupful of sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 

Cream Filling. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

2 eggs. % teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix one heaping teaspoonful of cornstarch with a little cold 
milk and add slowly. Boil two or three minutes in a rice pail, 
stirring constantly. When cool flavor with vanilla and spread 
between layers. 

Ice Cream Cake. 

1 cupful of butter. I/2 teaspoonful of soda and 1 

2 cupfuls of sugar. teaspoonful of cream of 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. tartar. 

2 cupfuls of flour. Or 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

1 cupful of cornstarch. powder. 
8 eggs (whites). 

Cream your butter and sugar. Mix starch, flour, soda and 
cream of tartar together, and add to the other ingredients; 
flavor with vanilla. Beat eggs stiff and add last. 

Icing. 

Boil two cupfuls of sugar, and one-half cupful of water 
seven minutes; don't stir. Beat the whites of three eggs stiff; 
pour the syrup on the beaten whites while boiling hot and beat 
all the time until quite cool. Then add a little vanilla and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Spread thick on 
layers and on top of the cake. 

Swiss Nut Cake Filling. 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. 3 eggs. 

1 cupful of sugar. 1 cupful of nuts (shelled). 

1 tablespoonful of cornstarch. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Put the sugar and milk together and set them on to boil. 
At boiling point stir in the cornstarch, previously dissolved in 
two tablespoonfuls of milk. When the mixture thickens add 
the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and then the nuts, rolled 
fine, last of all the vanilla. 

Soft Molasses Cake. 

2 cupfuls of sour cream. 2 cupfuls of molasses. 

y2 cupful of brown sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of sal- 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

eratus (not soda or baking Sifted flour to make a thick 

powder). batter. 

Mix well in the order in which the ingredients are given, ex- 
cept tliat the salerafus, wliich should be dissolved in a little hot 
water, should not be added until some of the flour has been 
beaten in. Eggs are not required and should not be used with 
this receipt. Bake in broad shallow pans, or in pate pans, in 
not too hot an oven. 



Nut Cake. 



1 pound of flour. 6 

1 pound of sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

1 cupful of butter. der. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat the eggs separately and add 
milk, then flour, etc. Have ready a quart of hickory nut meats, 
well floured and add the last thing before putting in the pan. 

Gem Shortcake. 

Make a batter, nearly as soft as for griddle cakeSj of 
wheat flour and Campbell's milk, a small teaspoonful of salt, 
one egg and two spoonfuls of melted butter, and bake quickly 
in well buttered and very hot gem pans. When done break, 
but do not cut them open. Lay them in a deep platter and pour 
over them strawberries, raspberries or any kind of fruit pre- 
ferred. Cover with sugar and serve with Campbell's cream. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

1 pint of flour. V2 teaspoonful of baking pow^ 

Pinch of salt. der. 

1/4 cupful of butter. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

Work the butter into the flour into which the salt and bak- 
ing powder should have been well sifted. Mix with a knife. 
Add milk onougii to make a dough as for biscuits. Flour board 
and roll out to one-half inch thickness. Short cake is a hard 
dessert to serve as when cutting it the berries will roll off, there- 
fore cut the dough with a tumbler and lay the rounds in a bak- 
ing pan two together with a little butter between, which makes 
them easy to split. Bake in hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 
In the meantime pick one quart of berries into a bowl and 
sprinkle with sugar. When the cake is done, split, lay straw- 
berries on under cake, then put one on top and more straw- 
berries, but butter the top cake slightly first. Then set in oven 
for a couple of minutes. Remove from oven, sift powdered 
sugar on top and serve with cream or whipped cream. 

Spanish Bun. 

Brooklyn Style. 

11^ cupfuls of brown sugar. 3 eggs (yolks). 

Va cupful of butter. V/2 teaspoonfuls each of bak- 

i% cupfuls of flour. Ing powder, cloves and cin- 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. namon. 

1/2 nutmeg. 

Bake in layers and put together with the following: Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add a medium-sized cup 
of brown sugar. Spread it thick between the layers. This cake 
is to be eaten the^same day it is baked. 

72 



Snow Balls. 



2 cupfuls of sugar. 
V2 cupful of butter. 

1 cvipful of Campbell's milk. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 



3 teaspoonfuls of baking pow« 

der. 
5 eggs (whites). 



Beat butter and sugar together; add milk, then flour with 
baking powder mixed thoroughly in it, then the beaten w^hites, 
and stir all well. Bake in deep square tins. The following day 
cut in two-inch squares, taking the outside crust off. Hold 
each piece on a fork and frost on all sides. Then roll in freshly- 
grated cocoanut. 

Peanut Wafers. 



2 quarts of rolled peanuts. 
% cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of sugar. 



2 cupfuls of sifted flour. 

% cupful of Campbell's milk. 

1^ teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 



Spread with a knife on buttered tins very thin, sprinkle with 
peanuts. Bake in quick oven, cut in squares and remove im- 
mediately. 

Wedding Cake. 

$100 Prize. 



12 eggs. 

1 pound of butter. 

1 pound of flour. 

iy2 pounds of brown sugar. 

3 pounds of raisins. 

3 pounds of currants. 

1 pound of citron. 

1 pint of New Orleans molas^ 

ses. 
% pint of Campbell's milk. 
^ pint of brandy. 



1 tablespoonful of bakers* 
yeast, or ^4 cake of com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in 
a tablespoonful of water. 

1 teaspoonful of saleratus. 

1 ounce of mace. 

1 ounce of cinnamon. 
14 ounce of cloves. 

^ ounce of allspice. 

2 nutmegs (grated). 



A little system makes the preparation of this elaborate cake 
much easier than it would otherwise be. The butter and sugar 
may be creamed the day before and set in the ice-cheSt and the 
fruit may be stoned and chopped and dredged with flour. This 
latter performance should always be gone through with in 
making cake containing fruit, else the fruit will settle at the 
bottom of the loaf. When the time comes for putting the cake 
together, the ingredients should first be placed on the kitchen 
table within easy reach. The butter and sugar should be 
creamed in an earthenware bowl with a wooden spoon. The re- 
sult will be more satisfactory if the sugar is added to the butter 
by slow degrees. When smooth and light add the brandy, and 
beat until the whole mass is creamy. Then add the fruit, which 
has been dredged with the flour and has had the spices stirred 
through it. In stoniug the raisins it is well to remember that if 
you pour hot water over them and let them stand in it while 
you are stoning the labor will be much lessened. The "steam- 
cleaned currants" require no preparation. The citron should be 
sliced into thin, transparent strips. After the fruit and spices 
are thoroughly blended with the butter and sugar, pour in the 
yeast, then the milk, then the soda, dissolved in a couple of tea- 



73 



spoonfuls of boiling water, then the molasses, then the beaten 
yolks of the eggs. ,Stir thoroughly for about ten minutes, then 
add the ^beaten whites of the eggs, which should be stiff. Cut 
these lightly through the mixture, stirring buc little. Pour the 
cake into two deep pans such as used to be popular for "bread 
tins" and preipare your mind for the baking. If you are very 
inexperienced you will do well to take your cake to a baker's 
and have it baked for five cents a pound instead of running the 
risk of spoiling your material. If, however, you understand 
your ovens, there is no reason for your failing. Your pans 
should be lined with buttered white paper, and when the mix- 
ture is poured into them you will think it very thin, but no 
harm will result from that. The pans should be put on the bot- 
tom shelf of oven just hot enough to turn a piece of white paper 
a very light yellow after it has been shut up in them for five 
minutes. The cake should bake for about four hours at a steady 
temperature, and should be carefully watched and turned. 
During the last hour a sheet of brown paper may be laid over 
the top of it to prevent the crust from growing too dry. If these 
directions are carefully carried out, this cake will be found 
equal to the very best wedding cake ever baked. The yeast, 
which is the point of variance from the ordinary receipts, gives 
a deliciously spongy texture. 

White Mountain Cake. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 1 pound of sugar. 

6 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

1/^ pound of butter. 2 heaping teaspoonfuls bak- 

1 pound of flour. ing powder. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, add the yolks of eggs, 
the milk and half the flour. Beat the whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth and stir into the mixture, then add the balance of 
flour. This can be used for a layer cake, drop cakes or a plaiu 
cake. It makes two layer cakes of three layers each. 



PUDDINGS. 

With puddings, whether baked or boiled, more depends upon 
the proper cookii\g than upon either ingredients or mixing. A 
simple and effectual way of preventing baked puddings of the 
custard variety from boiling, which will always make them 
watery, is to set them in a pan of water. This has the same 
effect as a double boiler. There is a very expensive contrivance 
called a "bain marie," but it is far beyond the reach of the 
average householder and the pan of water answers the purpose 
equally well. The water should come within an inch of the top 
of the dish in which the pudding is tO' be cooked. 

For boiled puddings an excellent substitute for a mould may 
be had in a china bowl which should be tied securely in a cloth, 
room being allowed for the pudding to swell. Puddings cooked 

74 



in bowls require considerably longer time than when placed in 
tin or merely in a cloth. 

No (Piidding containing suet can be boiled properly in less 
than two hours. Fruit should always be floured as for cakes 
and where fresh fruit has to be washed it should be made as 
dry as possible and allowance made for the additional moisture, 
where the receipt calls for fresh fruit. 

The rule for mixing batter is to use equal quantities of flour 
and liquid. For dough half as much liquid as flour. Batter 
should pour like molasses. Dough should hold a spoon. 

For many boiled puddings bread crumbs make a lighter mix- 
ture than flour, thou,gh some flour should always be used to 
hold it together. 

Almond Pudding. 

21^ ounces of bread crumbs. 6 eggs. 

1 pint of Campbell's cream. 3 ounces of sugar. 

y^ pint of sweet almonds 1 ounce of butter, 
(shelled). 

Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste by beating 
them in a mortar with a little water added to the nuts. Beat 
the yolks of the ^gg,^ and add the w^hites of three. Mix all the 
ingredients given together, put them in a double boiler over the 
fire and stir the mixture till it thickens. Allow it to cool and 
then bake it in a deep dish lined with puff paste. 

Apple Custard. 

Apples. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

6 eggs. Sugar and spice to taste. 

1 pint of Campbell's cream. 

Pare and core the apples. Stew them till about half done. 
Put them in the bottom of a dish and cover with the custard. 
See that the cream, milk and eggs are thoroughly mixed. This 
is a delicious pudding when cold. 

Baked Apple Pancake. 

3 eggs. Flour enough for a stiff pan- 
1 quart of Campbell's milk. cake batter. 

Apples. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
1 scant cupful of sugar. der. 

Slice the apples very thin. Butter a pudding dish, lay the 
apples in it and pour the batter over them. Bake in a slow oven 
imtil done. Serve in portions cut out with a spoon. Sprinkle 
sugar and cinnamon over each portion when served and if liked 
two tablespoonfuls of Campbell's whipped cream. 

Apple Pudding. 

Butter a deep baking dish and fill three-quarters full with 
sliced apples. Take one pint of Campbell's milk, two eggs, one 
tea spoonful of baking powder, a little salt and add flour to 
make a batter like cakes, pour over the apples and bake until 
they are done. Serve with sauce. 

75 



Batter Pudding. 

3 eggs. 1 pint of flour. 
1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

Whisk the yolks and whites separately. Bake in a hot oven 
one hour. 

Sauce. 

Cupful of boiling water, one cupful of sugar, let it boil. 
Tablespoonful of cornstarch, wet in milk, add one egg, beaten, 
and flavor with vanilla. 

Bread Pudding. 

An Old-Fashioned Receipt. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 1 teacupful of brown sugar. 

4 ounces of bread crumbs. Nutmeg, grated lemon peel or 
4 eggs. cinnamon to taste. 

Heat the milk to boiling point, pour it over the bread 
crumbs. Let it get cold, then add the eggs, well beaten, the 
sugar and the flavoring. Bake in a buttered dish. 

Note.— A few raisins may be added. This pudding may be 
made dainty while still retaining the genuine bread pudding 
flavor, which is wholly distinct from that of the bread and 
butter pudding, by mixing the yolks only of the eggs with the 
pudding itself and using the whites for a meringue. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 4 tablespoonfuls of brown 
4 eggs. sugar. 

Salt. Nutmeg or vanilla to taste. 

Cut the slices of stale bread about half an inch thick, butter 
them well but not too thickly. Lay them in a buttered dish, not 
too close together, pour the custard over them an-d bake in a 
moderate oven half an hour. 

Carrot Pudding. 

2 carrots. Sugar to taste. 
Bread crumbs. A little nutmeg. 

1 pint of Campbell's cream. 1 glass of brandy. 

4 ounces of butter. Puff paste. 

4 eggs, well beaten. 

Grate two raw, red carrots and mix with double the weight 
of bread crumbs to one and one-half pounds. Put one pint of 
cream, four ounces of butter, clarified, four eggs, well 
beaten, sugar to taste, a little nutmeg, grated and a glass of 
brandy. Line a dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, put 
slices of candied lemon or orange on the top and bake in a 
moderately hot oven one hour. 

76 



Lemon Sauce. 

1/^ cupful of butter. The grated rind and juice ot 
1 cupful of sugar. 1 lemon. 

1 eg-g. Salt to taste. 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Beat all together and add one-half pint of ^boiling water and 
let it thicken. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 4 tablespoonfuls of grated 

4 eggs. chocolate. 

% cupful of sugar. Vanilla to taste. 

Scald the milk; wet the chocolate and stir in. Boil two min- 
utes. Beat the yolks into the sugar and pour the hot mixture 
slowly upon them, stirring constantly, flavor and fill small 
cups which should be set ready in a dripping pan of boiling 
water. Do not have this pan too full or they will boil over the 
tops. Bake until firm. While they cool whip the whites to a 
stiff meringue with a little powdered sugar. When the custards 
are cold heap this upon the tops. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Make a nice custard with one quart of Campbell's milk, four 
eggs, well beaten, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one cupful of 
cocoanut, bake in a moderate oven until set and nicely browned. 

Corn Pudding. 

9 ears of corn. 1 scant teaspoonful of salt. 

3 eggs. A little pepper. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Butter the size of a small egg'. 

Cut lengthwise through each row of kernels with a sharp 
knife. Then scrape each iear to remove the soft part of the corn, 
leaving the thin skin of the kernels upon the ear, as this hard- 
ens in cooking and becomes indigestible. Butter an earthen- 
ware baking dish, turn into it the scraped corn, beat through it 
the three eggs, yolks and whites together, add milk, salt, and 
pepper. Melt the butter and stir in at the last. Bake three 
hours in a moderate oven. If it becomes brown too soon, cover 
the dish with an earthenware or granite pie-plate (one large 
enough not to touch the corn.) This has been a family receipt 
for many years and has always been served as a vegetable, not 
as a dessert. Its chief distinction lies in the omission of sugar 
and in the preparation of the corn which produces a very deli- 
cate result. The quantities given make enough for six persons. 

Cream Pudding. 

iy2 pints of flour. 1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 

1 saltspoonful of salt. 6 ounces of sugar. 

3 eggs. 1 pint of Campbell's cream. 

Do not add the cream until just before putting into the oven. 
Flavor it to taste. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

77 



Empress Pudding. 

1 pound of rice. 6 eg'g'S. 

4 ounces of butter. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

Boil the rice in the milk gradually until very soft, then 
add the butter, boil it for a few minutes after the latter ingred- 
ient is put in and set it by to cool. Whisk the eggs well, line a 
pie dish with puff paste, put over this a layer of rice, then a 
thin layer of any kind of jam, then another layer of rice; pro- 
ceed in this manner until the dish is full, bake in a moderate 
oven for one hour. Can be eaten hot or cold. Serve with 
cream. 

Fig Pudding. 

3 cupfuls of milk. 2 eggs. 

6 figs. 3 taiblespoonfuls of sugar. 

y2 cupful of grated "bread. Salt. 

Pour milk over bread crumbs and sugar, cook figs, after be- 
ing well chopped, in half a cupful of boiling water until all par- 
ticles are separated (a few minutes will be sufficient); stir into 
milk, etc., add the yolks of eggs, thoroughly whipped. Bake in 
moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour. 

Beat the whites of eggs to stiff froth and add two teaspoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar; when pudding is removed from oven 
spread this over top, return to oven and slightly brown. Serve 
with liquid sauce. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk 1 scant cupful of molasses, 

(saving out a cupful to add 1 teaspoonful of butter, 

cold). 1/4 teaspoonful of cinnamon. ' 

4 level tablespoonfuls of corn- 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

meal. 

Scald the milk and pour it on the meal; add other ingre- 
dients, and last of all, when dish has been placed in the oven, 
the cold milk, after which do not stir. Bake slowly for an 
hour or more. Raisins or sweet apples, cut in small pieces, im- 
prove this pudding. To be eaten cold with Campbell's cream. 

Lemon Pudding. 

10 ounces of bread crumbs. 4 eggs. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 1 tablespoonful of brandy. 

2 ounces of butter. 1 lemon. 
1/4 pound of sugar. 

Bring the milk to the boiling point, stir in the butter and 
pour these hot over the bread crumbs, add the sugar and very 
finely minced lemon peel. Beat the eggs and stir these in with 
the brandy to the other ingredients. Put a puff paste round the 
dish and bake one hour. Serve hot. 

flaccaroni Pudding. 

An English Receipt. 

14 pound of maccaroni. i^ pound of sultanas. 

1 pint of sherry. i/^ pound of sugar. 

2 lemons. V^ ounce of allspice. 
V2 pint of Campbell's milk. 

78 . . .^ 



Boil tlie maccaroni in the wine and lemon juice with the thin 
lemon rind until tender; add the milk and the eggs, well beaten, 
pour into a dish, and add the other ingredients. Cover with puff 
paste and bake twenty minutes. 

Manchester Pudding. 

6 ounces of bread crumbs. Sug-ar to taste. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. Puff paste. 

1 slice of lemon peel. Jam. 

6 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 

3 ounces of butter. 

Flavor the milk with lemon peel. Strain it on the bread 
crumbs and boil for two or three minutes, add the eggs, leaving 
out the whites of three, the butter, sugar and brandy. Stir all 
these ingredients well together, cover a pie dish Avith puff paste 
and at the bottom put a thick layer of any kind of jam. Pour 
the above mixture on it, cold, and bake for one hour. 

Ocean House Pudding. 

4 tablespoonfuls each of 6 eggs, 
sifted flour, sugar and Salt, 
melted butter. Vanilla. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

Put the flour and sugar in a mixing bowl, and when the milk 
is boiling pour it on the flour, etc., a little at a time to prevent 
lumping, then add the butter and let cool. Beat the yolks of 
eggs and stir in it; then the last thing before putting in the oven, 
add the beaten whites, flavoring and salt. ]Mix all thoroughly. 
Biitter an earthenware baking dish, pour in the mixture and set 
dish in a pan of water to bake. Bake from twenty to thirty 
minutes in a very hot oven. ,Serve vrith sauce, a hard sauce, 
stirred full either of strawberries or peaches preferred. 

Orange Pudding. 

12 ounces of stale sponge 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

cake. 1 pound of sugar. 

12 oranges. 10 eggs. 

Bruise the sponge cake into fine crumbs and pour upon them 
the milk, which should be boiling, rub four of the rinds of the 
oranges on sugar, add this with the juice of the remainder to 
the other ingredients, beat up the eggs, stir them in, sweeten to 
taste and put the mixture into a pie dish previously lined with 
puff paste. Bake about three-quarters of an hour. Turn it out 
of the dish and serve with sifted sugar. 

Peach Pudding. 

Peaches. Teaspoonful of baking pow- 

2 cupfuls of water. der. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 1 cupful of sugar. 

4 eggs. Tablespoonful of melted but- 

'W2 cupfuls of flour. ter. 

Fill the pudding dish with the peaches, peeled, but not cut. 
Pour the water over them and let them bake until tender. Drain 

79 ' 



off the water. When the peaches are oool add the batter made 
of the ingredients as directed. Bake until a rich brown. Serve 
with a custard made with one pint of milk and three eggs. 

Rice Pudding. 

2 teacupfuls of rice. i/4 pound of currants. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 1 nutmeg. 

6 eggs. V2 pound of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Lemon flavoring. 
4 ounces of fresh butter. 

Boil the rice in water until tender, with a pinch of salt. 
When done let it be thoroughly drained. Beat the eggs, stir 
to them the milk, the butter, currants and other ingredients. 
Add the rice and mix all well together. Line the edges of the 
dish with puff paste, put in the pudding and bake for one hour 
in a slow oven. Serve with cream. 

Scalded Flour Pudding. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Currants. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Sugar and flavoring to taste. 

2 eggs. 

Mix the flour smoothly into one gill of the milk. Put the 
rest on to boil. Add the currants, sugar and flavoring. Pour on 
the milk, hot. Stir well with a fork and let it stand until cold. 
Then add the eggs, well beaten. Pour the mixture into a but- 
tered dish and bake half an hour in a rather quick oven. 

Sponge Pudding. 

1/4 cupful of butter. i/4 cupful of sugar. 

1 tjint of Campbell's milk. 5 eggs. 

V2 cupful of flour. 

Mix sugar and flour with a little cold milk and stir into the 
boiling milk, let cook until it thickens and is smooth. Add the 
butter and when well mixed, stir it into the well-beaten yolks. 
Then add whites, beaten stiff. Bake in a hot oven. Place dish 
in pan of hot water while in oven. To be eaten with hard or 
liquid sauce as one prefers. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Vi cupful (small) of pearl tap- 6 tablespoonfuls of powdered 
ioca soaked over night in sugar. 

cold water enough to cover 3 of these to be beaten in with 
it well. the yolks and 3 with the 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. whites of the eggs. 

3 eggs. Pinch of salt. 

Scant teaspoonful of vanilla. * 

Put the milk on to scald in a double boiler, not boil. When 
scalded add the tapioca, well drained, stir it through the milk 
and set it back a little while preparing the eggs. Beat the eggs 
until thick and add gradually the three tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar. Then remove the milk from the fire and pour it 
gradually on the beaten eggs and sugar, stirring it quickly and 
well. Return to the fire in the double boiler and stir until it 

80 



thickens like soft custard. The froth will leave it and the 
wooden spoon become coated with the custard when ready to 
remove it from the fire. Stir constantly till this is accomplished 
that it may be smooth and not too thick. Remove from the nre 
and flavor with the vanilla. Set away to get cool. Beat the 
whites of the eggs until light and foamy and add gradually the 
sugar, a tablespoonful at a time. Beat until the meringue is 
stiff. Put on top of the pudding, return to the oven and brown 
the meringue to a delicate brown. Put an asbestos mat under 
the pudding whilst in the oven. 

Vermicelli Pudding. 

Parboil half a package of vermicelli and pour over it a cua- 
tard of one quart of milk, one-half pint of Campbell's cream, 
three eggs, one and one-half to two cupf uls of sugar, all beaten 
well. Flavor to taste and bake light brown. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

To be Cooked under Roast Beef. 

V2 pound of flour. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

2 eg-gs. Salt. 

Make these ingredients into a batter. When the meat Is 
nearly done, about half an hour before it is ready to serve, take 
it from the oven, drain as much fat as possible from the pan, 
but do not wash it. Put the stand back into the center, place the 
meat upon it, pour the batter into the pan under the meat, set 
it back into a hot oven and cook half an hour, by which time 
it should be nicely browned. Serve on a very hot dish. 



BOILED PUDDINGS. 

Blackberry Pudding. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. A pinch of salt. 

2 eggs, well beaten. Flour enough to make a stiff 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- batter. 

der. 

Sift baking powder and flour together and make a stiff bat- 
ter. Stir in one pint of blackberries. Steam one hour in but- 
tered mould. 

Note.— Strawberries, huckleberries, raspberries, currants or 
cherries may be cooked in the same manner. Cherries should not 
be stoned. This same receipt may be used for a pudding that is 
to be boiled and which may be cooked in an ordinary pudding 
bag. Serve with a liquid or hard sauce, whichever is preferred. 
An excellent sauce for these fruit puddings is made as follows: 

1 small cupful of sugar. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

Butter size of a walnut. 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water 

Beat all together and pour into half a pint of boiling water. 
Flavor with brandy, wine or lemon. 

81 



Cabinet Pudding. 

The receipts for this pudding vary so much that it may be 
one of the richest that could be devised or it may be little more 
than a bread and butter pudding with fruit added and boiled 
instead of baked. One receipt for making it with gelatine and 
without cooking will be found in the division "Miscellaneous 
Desserts." 

Sponge cake or lady fingers. 3 tablespoonfuls of sug-ar. 

V4, pound of macaroons. Nutmeg. 

^4. pound of raisins. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

14 pound of currants. 4 eggs. 

iy2 ounces of candied peel. 

Butter a mould and line it with the cake. Then put in layers 
of the cake and fruit alternately. Mix the eggs, sugar and milk 
as for a custard and pour it into the mould. Cover it closely 
and set in water. It may be cooked either on top of the stove 
or in the oven. It should be cooked in one hour. It may be 
served hot with a sweet sauce, or iced, when wihipped cream is 
the proper accompaniment. 

Farina Dumplings. 

For Soup. 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. 2 eggs. 

1 cupful of farina. V2 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Put the milk, farina and butter into a saucepan, set it over 
the fire and stir the mixture until it becomes a smooth paste. 
Turn it into a bowl, add the egi^a well beaten and the salt. Take 
out by small spoonfuls and drop into the boiling soup. Let them 
cook about ten minutes . 

Fig Pudding. 

1 pound of figs. 1 pound of flour. 

6 ounces of suet. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

Chop the suet fine. Mix with the flour and make into a 
smooth paste by adding the milk. Roll it about half an inch 
thick. Cut the tigs, strew^ over the paste, roll it up, making the 
ends secure. Tie in a pudding cloth and boil two hours. 

Boiled Indian Fruit Pudding. 

1 cupful of cornmeal. 1 cupful of cleaned currants. 

2 cupfuls of flour.. 1 cupful of sultana raisins. 
Yo cupful of sugar! V2 cupful of molasses. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 1 tablespoonful of Uutter 

1 teaspoonful of baking soda. (melted). 

IV2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk 

Sift cornmeal, flour, sugar, salt and soda together, add the 
currants and raisins and mix with the hands. For mixing in the 
liquids use a knife; stir in, lirst, the milk, then the molasses and 
last the melted butter. 

Put the mixture in a well-greased, three-pint pail or mould 

82 



and set in a pot of boiling water. Boil constantly tor three 
hours. Keep the pot always three-quarters full of boiling water 
and covered tight. Serve with sauce . 

Minute Pudding. 

Take any desirable quantity of milk, bring it to the boiling 
point, stir in wheat flour to make it stitf, add a little salt, and 
serve with cream and sugar or sweet sauce. 

Officer's Pudding. 

1/^ pound of suet. 4 tablespoonfuls of molasses. 

^2 pound of raisins. 1 quart of CamptbeH's milk. 

1/2 pound of currants. 1 cupful of flour. 
% pound of bread crumbs. 

Ohop the suet fine, mix it with the currants and raisins, 
which should be stoned, the flour, bread crumbs and molasses, 
moisten with the milk. Beat up the ingredients until all are 
thoroughly mixed. Put into a mould and boil for three and one- 
half hours. Serve with custard sauce made from one pint of 
milk and three eggs. 

Potato Dumplings. 

Grate three cold potatoes, add sutticient Campbell's milk, 
cold, to make quite soft, two eggs, salt and three heaping 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Have a pot of boiling water, wet the 
spoon in the water and form round dumplings, dropping them 
right into the boiling water. Boil about fifteen minutes. Very 
nice eaten with roast veal or pork. They may also be put into 
beef soup. 

Strawberry Dumplings. 

Put one pint of sifted flour into a bowl and rub into the 
flour two ounces of butter; add a teaspoonful of salt, a heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder and sutticient of Campbell's milk 
to moisten. Mix quickly, take out on a board and roll out into 
a sheet a quarter of an inch thick. Cut into cakes with a 
biscuit cutter, put about £our strawberries in each cake, fold 
them over neatly and steam about twenty minutes. 

Suet Pudding. 

1 cupful of suet. 2 eg-gs. 

1 cupful of sugar. % teaspoonful of salt. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 1 teaspoonful of baking pow- 

1 cupful of raisins. der. 

1 cupful of currants. 

Shred and chop the suet fine, stone the raisins, pick over, 
wash and dry the currants. Beat the suet, sugar and yolks of 
the eggs together, until light, then add the milk and flour, beat 
until smooth, add the spices, salt, and whites of the eggs well 
beaten, then add the baking powder, mix well and add the fruit 
well flavored, turn into a greased mould and boil continuously 
for three hours, serve hot with vinegar sauce. 

83 



Vinegar Sauce. 

One cup of sugiar and half cup of water, boiled together for 
three minutes, then add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 
pour out to oool. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

6 ounces of tapioca. 8 eggs. 

2 quarts of Campbell's milk. Vanilla or other flavoring to 

4 ounces of butter. taste. 

y2 pound of sugar. 

Wash the tapioca, let it stew gently in the milk occasion- 
ally stirring it, then let it oool a little, mix with it the butter, 
sugar and egg& which should be well beaten, put in a mould 
and boil one and a half hours. 

Troy Pudding. 

1 cupful of butter or chopped 1 cupful of raisins. 

suet. 3V2 cupfuls of flour. 

1 cupful of molasses. 1 egg. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Mix butter, molasses, the egg, milk with soda dissolved in 
it, then the flour and raisins (that have been dredged with 
flour), the last thing. Put in a pudding bag and boil or steam 
four hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Yankee Pudding. 

1 breakfast cupful of vermi- i/^ pound of raisins. 

celli. Sugar to taste. 

2 tablespoonfuls of marma- 2 eggs 

lade. 1 quart of Campbell's cream. 

Pour some boiling cream on the vermicelli and let it remain 
covered for ten minutes, then beat it with marmalade, stoned 
raisins, sugar and beaten eggs. Stir all well together. Put the 
mixture into a buttered mould, boil for one and one-half hours 
and serve with custard sauce. 

Cream Sauce. 

Mix one small cupful of raspberi-y or currant juice or jelly 
(dissolved) with half a pint of Campbell's cream and a table- 
spoonful of brandy. Beat until it froths. Milk will not answer 
for this receipt 

Foam Sauce. 

1 cupful of Campbell's milk. ^/^ cupful of sugar. 

1 egg. Vanilla flavoring. 

Beat the egg and sugar to a cream and stir into the boiling 
milk. Remove from the stove at once and put in a teaspoonful 
of vanilla. 

84 



PIES. 

Cream Pie Crust. 

1 pint of flour. ^ teaspoonful of baking pow- 

% pint of Campbell's cream. der. 

Scant V2 teaspoonful of salt. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

Mix flour, baking powder and sugar together and add the 
cream, mixing quickly and lightly. Roll out as ordinary pie 
crust. Sour cream may be used, in which case soda should be 
substituted for baking powder, one even teaspoonful is the 
average quantity required. 

Carrot Pie. 

1 good-sized carrot, grated. 4 eggs, well beaten. 

The juice and grated rind of Sugar and salt to taste. 
2 oranges. 

Stir all into a quart of Campbell's milk and bake as a cus- 
tard pie. 

English Cheese Cakes. 

Put a pint of Campbell's cream into a saucepan over the 
fire; when it is warm add five quarts of CampbeH's milk. Put 
in a little rennet, Sitir it and when it is turned put the curd into 
a linen bag. Let it drain but do not squeeze it too much. Now 
put it in a mortar and pound it as fine as butter. Add half a 
pound of sweet almonds, blanched, the yolks of nine well- 
beaten eggs, one grated nutmeg, a little rose or orange water 
and half a pound of sugar. Mix well together. It can be made 
in one large cake or several small ones. Put a few currants on 
the top of each. 

Note. — The word cake is misleading, as English cheese 
cakes are really tartlets with the filling as described above. 

Chocolate Pie. 

3 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. 1 tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

IY2 squares of unsweetened % cupful of sugar. 

chocolate. A little salt. 

3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Boil chocolate in milk till dissolved, add salt, the yolks of 
the eggs, well beaten, then cornstarch and sugar. Stir together 
well and bake in an under crust. On taking from the oven frost 
immediately with the beaten whites of eggs, to which has been 
added a tablespoonful of su^ar, and return to the oven till 
lightly browned. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

The food of the gods was ambrosia, they say, 
And angel cake shows on the menu to-day. 
But while these confections I will not decry, 
They cannot compare with a cocoanut pie. 

85 



Of eggs newly laid take a fourth of a score; 
Of sugar a cupful and half a cup more; 
Of cocoanut, shredded, same quantity try; 
And salt to your liking for cocoanut pie. 

Of crushed soda crackers two tablespoons full, 
Be right in the measure and not have a mull. 
And then comes the milk; lacking that I defy 
Even Soyer to make a good cocoanut pie. 

You need a quart bottle of Cajnpbell's famed bnand; 
So widely known now as the best in the land. 
For uniform richness and purity, I 
Use it and none other, for cocoanut pie. 

Now, when all these products are properly mixed, 
And spread on the pastry in three platters fixed. 
Place in a quick oven, on which keep an eye. 
They cry Hip! Hip! Hurrah! for cocoanut pie. 

Cream Pie. 

Break three eggs and mix with four tablespoonf uls of sugar 
and the same quantity of flour. Beat well and pour all into 
a pint of Oampbell'is milk, heated to boiling point. Keep stir- 
ring one way until it thickens, take it off and flavor to taste. 
Before making the cream have the paste for three pies ready to 
roll out. The crust should ibe rolled at least twice. When 
baked and while warm, separate the edges with a knife and 
lift the upper from the lower paste; till in the cream and put on 
the upper ciaist. 

Note. — Butter the edges of the upper and lower crusts, so 
that they may be separated easily. 

Lemon Pie. 

Take one large cupful of Campbell's milk, boil it and stir 
in one tablespoonful of cornstarch, wet with a little cold milk 
(Campbell's). When that has boiled up once remove from the 
fire. Beat the yolks of three eggs well, with one cupful of sugar 
and the juice and grated rind of two lemons. Mix this with 
the milk after it has cooled a little and bake in a bottom crust. 
Take the whites of three eggs and beat stiff and add two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Put over the pie when baked 
and set in the oven a few minutes to brown. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

2 cupfuls of pumpkin. 1 t.easpoonful of cinnamon. 

4 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. A little grated nutmeg. 

14 teaspoonful of salt. 5 esgs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of ginger. % cupful of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of mace. 

Stew the pumpkin until soft and ])ut through the colander. 
If the custard is not sweet enough add sugar to taste. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a «tiff froth and add just before baking. 
This receipt will make two medium-sized pies. 

86 



niSCELLANEOUS DESSERTS. 

Whipped Cream. 

This delicious addition to so many excellent desserts, in- 
cluding pastry, fresh fruit, jellies, etc., is easy to obtain if 
Campbell's cream be used for the puri)ose. Thin cream can- 
not be whipped. The cream sold by the Alex. Campbell Milk 
Company can be Avhipped witli a wire spoon, a Dover egg 
beater or a syllabub whip, whichever you prefer. Cream should 
be kept cool and in hot weather it is wise to set the bowl in 
which it is whipped into a dish containing cracked ice or ice 
water. 

Apple Trifle. 

20 g-ood-sized apples. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

1 pound of sugar. li/^ pints of Campbell's cream. 

Rind of lemon. 3 eggs. 

Peel, core and cut the apples into thin slices and put them 
into a saucepan with four tablespoonfuls of water, sugar and 
minced lemon rind. Boil all together until tender, pulp the ap- 
ples through a sieve. Put them at the bottom of a dish to form 
a layer, stir together milk and one pint of the cream and a little 
sugar over the fire. Let the mixture thicken, but do not allow 
it to reach the boiling point. When thick take it off the fire, let 
it cool la little and pour over the apples. Whip some cream 
with sugar, heap it high over custard and the dish is ready for 
the table. 

Snow Apples. 

6 large apples (pippins or 1 cupful of Campbell's cream, 

greenings are best). Nutmeg, cinnamon and salt 

1 cupful of powdered sugar. to taste. 

2 eggs (whites). 

Wipe and core the apples and place in a deep baking dish. 
In each apple put as much sugar as it will hold, a pinch of salt, 
nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake until tender. Beat the whites of 
the eggs with the remainder of the sugar to a stiff froth. Cover 
each apple with it and return to the oven until the whites are 
just set, but not browned. Send to table cold, with rich cream 
as an accompaniment. Nice for kmch or tea, with hot biscuits. 

Blanc Mange. 

This delicate and wholesome preparation of milk is espec- 
ially valuable in hot weather and as a food for invalids. It 
may be made with cornstarch, Irish moss or with gelatine. 
Those who cannot take starchy foods often find the gelatine 
soothing and although comparatively neutral it forms a safe 
vehicle for the nourishment contained in milk and cream which 
might not be fancied if served in other ways. 

Blanc Mange should always be served with cream. 

S7 



Cornstarch Blanc Hange. 

Take three and one-half ounces of cornstarch for one quart 
of Campbell's milk. Dissolve the cornstarch in a little of the 
cold milk and add it together with a pinch of salt and two 
ounces of white sugar to the rest of the milk, which should have 
been placed in a double boiler and heated to scalding. Cook 
eight minutes, stirring continually. Flavoring should not be 
added until the blanc mange is removed from the fire. Two or 
three drops of essence of lemon, half a teaspoonful of almond 
extract or a teaspoonful of vanilla may be used, or, if preferred, 
a stick of cinnamon may be boiled in the milk and removed 
just before the cornstarch is added. Wet the mould, pour in 
the blanc mange and set in a cool place. 

Irish floss Blanc Mange. 

Receipt given by a nurse, graduate of L. I. College Hospital. 

Pick over carefully one teacupful of Irish moss, wash it 
first in saleratus water, put it in a tin pail with one quart of 
Campbell's milk. Cover closely and set in a kettle of boiling 
water. Let it (Stand until it begins to thicken. Then strain 
through a fine sieve and sweeten with powdered sugar, flavor 
and pour into a mould and set in a cool place. When quite firm 
turn into a dish. Eat with sugar and cream. 

Blanc Mange. (Gelatine.) 

2 ounces of gelatine. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

5 ounces of granulated or loaf ^ teaspoonful of vanilla or 
sugar. other flavoring to taste. 

Soak the gelatine in one-half the milk for at least two hours. 
Add the sugar and fiavoring. Heat tlie remaining pint to boil- 
ing point, remove the film that forms. As soon as the milk is re- 
moved from the fire, pour it over the gelatine. Stir until all 
the ingredients are dissolved. Strain through a jelly cloth into 
a mould, previously moistened. 

Cherry Pudding. 

1 cupful of dried cherries. 1 quart of water. 

1 cupful of sugar. 

Boil until juice is rich and fruit is tender; strain out the 
cherries and thicken the juice with two scant tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch, when smooth return the fruit, stir well and pour 
into fancy moulds to cool. Serve very cold with Campbell's 
cream (whipped). 

Chocolate Pudding. 

3 tablespoonfuls of corn- 3 tablespoonfuls of grated 
starch. chocolate. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 3 eggs. 

Mix well and put into a double boiler and cook until the 
mixture thickens. Remove from the fire and stir in the whites 

88 



of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Mix well and pour into 
a mould. Beat the yolks of the eggs with half a cupful of 
sugar and stir the same into one pint of Cam,pbeirs milk, heated 
to boiling point. Cook until it forma a custard, which is to be 
poured over the pudding. Serve cold. 

Superior Charlotte Russe. 

One quart of Campbell's rich, thick cream. Sweeten to taste 
and flavor with vanilla or almond. Whip the cream stiff by 
means of a syllabub whip or a Dover egg beater, which latter 
has to be used continuously for fifteen minutes. When stiff 
place the cream on a hair sieve to drain. Take two ounces 
of gelatine, and after dissolving it in a pint of water, boil it 
down to a little less than a teacupf ul. Stir cream and gelatine 
together and set it away to cool. Prepare a mould or dish by 
lining it with sponge cake, either in thin s-heets or in lady fin- 
gers and before the cream is hard pour it into the mould. If a 
richer dish is needed it may easily be procured by putting a 
layer of fruit jelly over the cake before pouring on the cream. 
A variation may be made by placing two layers of macaroons 
saturated with Madeira wine in the bottom of the mould. 

Bavarian Cream. 

1 box of gelatine. i^ cupful of sugar, 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

3 eggs. 

Soak the gelatine one hour, then put on the stove, stirring 
until warm. Put the quart of milk on the fire until it comes 
to a boil, then add to the warm gelatine. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs and one cupful of sugar together and add to the 
gelatine and milk. Flavor' with the vanilla and pour into a 
mould. When ready to serve pour over it the whipped whites 
of the three eggs. 

Cocoanut Cream. 

1 cupful of grated cocoanut. 1 cupful of white sugar. 

2 cupfuls of Campbell's milk. 1 egg. 

Boil the milk and sugar for a few minutes, pour it over the 
grated cocoanut, and let cool. Strain it, pressing the cocoanut 
hard to extract all the flavor. Then beat the egg and add to it. 
Set over the fire and stir until it thickens. Serve in glass dishes 
over slices of sponge cake. 

Cream Dessert. 

One quart of Campbell's milk, three well-beaten eggs, seven 
tablespoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, small, three table^- 
spoonfuls cornstarch, wet with a little milk. Heat the milk, 
do not boiil it, and add the three eggs, well beaten, then the 
sugar and salt, stir well and add the cornstarch. Let this mix- 
ture boil two minutes. Pour into a mould and flavor. Serve 
cold and with fruit jelly. 

89 



Ginger Cream. 

8 eggs. 4 dessertspoonfuls of syrup, 

1 quart of Campbell's cream. Powdered sugar to taste. 
6 ounces of preserved ginger. 2 ounces of gelatine. 

Slice the ginger fine and put it in a basin witli the syrup, 
the well-beaten joYks of the eggs and the cream. Mix all the In- 
gredients together and stir over the fire for about ten minutes 
or until it thickens. Then take it off the fire, whisk until nearly 
cold, add the gelatine, which should be melted and strained, 
sweeten to taste and pour into a glass dish, garnish with pre- 
served ginger and serve. 

Italian Cream. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 10 tablespoonfuls of granu- 

le box of gelatine. lated sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Put the milk and gelatine in a farina kettle on the range 
to dissolve the gelatine. Beat the yolks of eggs and the sugar 
to a cream. When the milk and gelatine are nearly boiling stir 
in the sugar and eggs and keep stirring until you feel the cus- 
tard thicken, but not to boil. Beat the whites of eggs to a stilT 
froth and take the custard off the range and stir in the whites 
of the eggs and mix Avell. Turn into moulds and set on ice. 

Pistachio Cream. 

Beat half a pound of pistachio nut kernels in a mortar with 
a spoonful of brandy. Put them into a pan Avitli one pint of 
Campbeirs cream and the yolks of two eggs beaten fine. Stir 
it gently until it thickens then pour it into a china soup plate. 
When cold stick little pieces of the nuts all over and send it to 
the table 

Note. — English walnuts may be served in the same manner. 

Raspberry Cream. 

Rub one quart of raspberries through a hair sieve. Don't 
let one seed through. Mix with one quart of Campbell's cream; 
make it vei-y sweet. Now whip it and as the froth rises lay it 
on a hair sieve. When you have all the froth required put what 
cream remains in a deep china dish and pour your frothed 
cream over. 

Rocky riountain Cream. 

Sponge cake. Juice of a lemon. 

Jam. % glassful of sherry. 

3 pints of Campbell's cream. 2i/^ ounces of gelatine. 
Sugar to taste. 

Cut the cake into thin slices, place two together with jam 
between. Pour over the sherry, sweeten and flavor the cream 
with a little lemon. Add the gelatine, which snould be dis- 
solved in water and beat up the cream well. Place a little of it 
in a mould, arrange the pieces of cake in it. Then fill the mould 
with the remainder of the cream. Let it cool and turn out on a 
dish. 

90 



Roya! Cream. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 6 tablespoonfuls of white 
Vs box of gelatine. sugar. 

6 eggs. 

Put the gelatine into the milk and let it stand half an hour. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs well with the sugar, then stir it into 
the milk; place this on a slow fire and stir constantly until it 
begins to thicken like thick custard. Have ready the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and the moment the custard 
is taken from the tire the whites of the beaten eggs into the 
custard quickly. Mix well and pour into a mould. Set aside 
to cool. 

Snow Cream. 

Put to a quart of Campbell's cream the whites of three 
eggs, well beaten; four teaspoonfuls of orange juice, sugar to 
taste and a bit of orange peel. Whip it to a stiff froth. Remove 
the peel and serve in a glass dish. 

Solid Cream. 

8 tablespoonfuls of pounded 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
sugar. Juice of 1 lemon. 

2 quarts of Campbell's cream. 

Strain the lemon juice over the sugar, add the brandy, then 
stir in the cream. Put the mixture into a jug and continue 
pouring from one to another until it is quite thick, or it may be 
whisked until the desired consistency is obtained. It should be 
served in jelly glasses. 

Strawberry Cream. 

Mash one quart of strawberries with one cupful of pow- 
dered sugar and rub through a hair sieve. Dissolve one and 
one-half ounces of gelatine in one pint of Oampbell's milk, 
strain and add one pint of Campbell's whipped cream and the 
berry juice. Pour in a wet mould and set on ice to form. 

Boiled Custard. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. 3 ounces of loaf sugar. 

5 eggs. Rind of ^/^ lemon or a few 

1 tablespoonful of brandy drops of vanilla extract, 
(may be omitted if desired). 

Put the milk into an enameled saucepan, with the sugar 
and the flavoring and let it steep until well flavored. Bring 
it to the point of boiling, then strain it into a bowl. Beat the 
eggs well and stir them into the milk when it has cooled a 
little. Strain again, this time into a double boiler, and place 
it over the fire, and if brandy is used mix it well through the 
custard. Fill the glasses about three-fourths full, grate a little 
nutmeg on top and the dish is ready when cold. The French 
rule regarding the quantity to be prepared is to measure the 
milk by the number of glasses which have to be filled, putting 
in as many glasses, nearly full of milk as there are to be of 

91 



custard. Then allow somewhat less than half an ounce of 
granulated sugar for each portion and the yolk of one egg for 
the same. 

Cream Custard. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. Lemon peel and cinnamon. 

1 pint of Campbell's cream. Sugar to taste. 

8 eggs. 

Boil the milk with the lemon peel and cinnamon. Mix the 
cream with the yolks of the eggs (well beaten). When the milk 
tastes of the seasoning, strain it and sweeten it enough for the 
whole custard. Pour it into the cream and put both into a 
double boiler. Stir one way until it is of a proper consistency. 

Caramel Custard. 

Let one pint of Campbell's milk come to lioiling then pour 
it over two well-beaten eggs. Add a large tablespoonful 
browned sugar, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. To brown the 
sugar put one large tablespoonful of dark brown sugar in a hot 
spider, stir constantly until dissolved; then add a very little 
hot water and another spoonful of sugar. Mix all thoroughly, 
pour in cups and steam until set. 

Orange Custard. 

Boil very tender the rind of half a Seville orange, beat it in 
a mortar very fine, with a spoonful of brandy, the juice of the 
orange, four ounces of sugar and tlie yolks of four eggs. Beat 
this mixture for ten minutes and pour in gradually one pint of 
Campbell's cream (boiling). Pour into custard cups and place 
in a cool corner. Before serving stick a few pieces of preserved 
orange peel on each cup. 

Rice Custard. 

Sweeten one pint of Campbell's milk with granulated sugar. 
Steep it in a double boiler with a stick of cinnamon or other 
flavoring. Stir in ground rice until thick. Remove from the 
fire and add the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Put it back over the fire for two or three minutes. Have the 
custard cups set in cold water. Do not wipe them before pour- 
ing the custard into them. When cold turn out the rice, pour 
round them a custard made with the yolks of the eggs and a 
generous pint of Campbell's milk. Put a little currant or other 
bright-colored jelly on top of each custard. 

Floating Island. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

4 eg"g"s. y2 cupful of currant jelly. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Heat milk to scalding point, but not boiling, beat the yolks 
and whites separately, stir into them the sugar, pour upon the 
yolks gradually one cupful of the hot milk, return to saucepan 
and boil until It begins to thicken. When cool flavor and pour 

92 



into glass dish. Heap upon top a meringue of the whites, 
whipped stiff, into which you have beaten the jelly, a teaspoon- 
f ul at a time. 

Curds and Whey. 

Milk for curds and whey and for junkets must be fresh. 
Campbell's milk, if used on the day that it is delivered to cus- 
tomers, will solidify properly. If kept twenty-four hours it is 
not guaranteed for this purpose. Curds and whey and junket 
are wholesome and palatable dishes for warm weather and are 
especially valuable as invalid food. It is better to buy prepared 
rennet and to use the proportions of the liquid as prescribed 
by the manufacturers. The milk should be heated until it is 
of the temperature that it was when fresh from the cow; it 
must not be hot. 

A Killarney Dish. 

12 larg-e oranges. l^^ pints of Campbell's cream. 

1 pound of sugar (loaf). 2 tablespoonf uls of brandy. 

1/^ pint of water. Sugar to taste. 

Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and boil until the 
sugar becomes brittle, which may be ascertained by taking up 
a small quantity in a spoon and dipping it in cold water, if the 
sugar is sufficiently boiled it will snap easily. Peel the oranges, 
remove the white pith andj divide them into nice-sized slices 
without breaking the skin, which surrounds the pulp. Place 
the pieces of orange on small skewers, dip them into the hot 
sugar and arrange them in layers round a plain mould which 
should be well oiled with pure salad oil. The sides of the mould 
only should be lined with the oranges and the center left open 
for the cream. Let the sugar become firm by cooling. Turn the 
oranges very carefully out on a dish and fill the center with 
whipped cream, flavored with brandy and sweetened with 
pounded sugar. This is a very pretty supper dish. 

La Rouge. 

A Danish Dessert. 

1 quart of cranberries. 1 teaspoonful of extract of 
4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. vanilla. 

6 tablesjpoonfuls cornstarch. 3 pints of water. 

A few pieces of stick cinna- % pint of Campbell's cream, 
mon. 

To be eaten with powdered sugar sprinkled over the top and 
served with Campbell's cream. To be poured into moulds and 
set away to harden. 

Put the cranberries on to boil, covered with three pints of 
water and a few pieces of stick cinnamon broken up and stirred 
through them. Boil gently until soft. Press through a sieve, 
taking care to remove the thick cranberries from the under side 
of the sieve. Rinse out the vessel in which the cranberries were 
boiled to remove any seeds. Measure the juice— there should 
be exactly three pints. Pour it slowly from the dish in meas- 
uring the juice to leave the seeds behind. Return two pints to 

93 



the kettle, leaving one pint to dilute tlie cornstarch. If the 
three pints are lacking make it up with warm water. Add to 
the two pints the four tablespoonfuls of sugar, stir well and put 
it on the fire. Let it come to a boil. Set back till the boil leaves 
it, then stir in the other pint of juice having previously thor- 
oughly diluted the six tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in it. Stir 
into the juice on the tire, stirring it well and quickly all the time. 
It remains on the tire until it thickens; it will do so in a few 
minutes, but must be stirred; allow it, generally, to come to a 
boil once. Have ready bowls which have been previously wet 
with cold water. Remove the blanc mange from the fire, add 
the teaspoonful of vanilla and pour into the moulds and set it 
away to harden. Be careful not to get it too stiff with corn- 
starch. 

Peach Pot=Pie. 

Peel as many peaches as you desire for your family. Put 
them into a porcelain-lined kettle and add water enough to 
cover them well. Sweeten to taste. When they are cooked 
tender, skim them from the syrup and lay them on a platter to 
keep them warm. Make a light biscuit dough of one quart of 
flour, lard the size of an egg, two cupfuls of millv, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, and a pinch of salt and roll it into 
balls the size of the peaches. Drop them into the syrup and 
boil twenty minutes. Lay them carefully on the platter among 
the peaches and pour the syrup over the whole. 

So!id SyHabub. 

Take one quart of Campbell's cream, one quart of any 
white wine, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one and sweeten 
to taste. Whip it well and as the froth arises lay it on a hair 
sieve and let it stand in tlie refrigerator until next day. With 
wliat is left in tlie dish half fill your tumblers and let stand until 
next day. Before you serve pile the froth on each glass. The 
bottom of the glass will be clear and it will keep several days. 

Whipped Sylfabub. 

Rub a lump of loaf sugar in the outside of a lemon until 
all the oil is absorbed; put it into one pint lOf Campbell's cream 
and sweeten to taste. Squeeze into this the juice of the lemon, 
add a wineglass of Madeira or French brandy. Now whip it 
briskly and as the froth rises lay it on a hair sieve. Fill medium- 
sized tumblers with any red wine and piJe your froth on as 
high as possible. Take care your froth is well drained, other- 
wise it will mix with the wine and your syllabub be spoiled. 

Trifle. 

4 eggs. 1 cupful of flour. 

1 cupful of sugar. Little salt. 

Beat the yolks and sugar until creamy, then the beaten 
whites and the flour stirred in the last thing. Bake twenty or 
thirty minutes. 

94 



Make a boiled custard of a quart of Campbell's milk, boil, 
stir in a large tablespoonf ul of cornstarch, wet with a little cold 
milk. Beat the yolks of three eggs thoroughly and add three or 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar, then add both to the boiling ,milk 
and cook for two or three jninutes. Flavor. Cut the sponge 
cake in squares and when the custard is cold pour a bountiful 
supply over each piece. Then have the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff with a little sugar and add a good spoonful to the 
top of each cake. 

Whips. 

We take two cupfuls of Campbell's cream, one cupful of 
white wine, grate in the skin of a lemon, sweeten to taste, and 
the whites of three eggs. Then whip it briskly, take off the 
froth as it rises and place it in prettily-shaped glasses in which 
you have placed already a dessertspoonful of some colored 
jelly. 

Ice Cream. 

Frozen Custards, etc. 

Iced Apple Pudding: 

2 dozen apples (small). 1 ounce of citron. 

Jar of apricot jam. 2 ounces of almonds. 

Vo pound of sugar. 1 g-lassful of curacoa. 

1 Seville orange. 1 glassful of maraschino. 

V^ pint of preserved cherries. 1 quart of Campbell's cream. 
1/4 pound of raisins. 

Peel, core and cut the apples into quarters. Simmer over 
the fire until soft. Mix with them the jam and sugar on which 
the rind of the orange should be rubbed. AVork all these in- 
gredients through a sieve and put them into a freezing pot. 
Stone the raisins and simmer in a little syrup for a few min- 
utes. Add these with the sliced citron, the almonds, cut in 
dice and the cherries, drained from their syrup. Add to the 
ingredients in the freezer. Put in the curacoa, iuai\ascliino and 
freeze again. Add as much whipped cream as will be required 
and freeze again. Fill the mould, put the lid on and plunge into 
the icepot. Cover with a wet cloth, pounded ice and saltpetre, 
where it should remain until wanted for the table. 

Brown Bread Ice Cream. 

6 slices of brown bread. 4 sponge cakes. 

2 glasses of maraschino. 1 quart of Campbell's cream. 
1 pound of sugar. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

Crumble the bread and biscuit into a pitcher, add by de- 
grees the sugar, milk and cream. Place the pitcher in a sauce- 
pan of water and stir over a gentle fire like custard until it 
thickens. Let the mixture get quite cold, crumble the remain- 
ing slices, sift tliem as for bread crumbs, add them with the 
maraschino to the mixture and freeze. 

95 



Coffee Ice Cream. 

12 ounces of Turkey coffee 2 ounces of arrowroot. 

berries. 1 pound of sugar. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

Put the berries on a tin in the oven for five minutes. Boil 
the cream and milk together and put them into a can. Take the 
berries from the oven and throw them in the scalding cream; 
cover (till cold; strain, add the arrowroot and sugar, stir over 
the fire like custard. Freeze. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

% pound of chocolate. 1 quart of Campbell's milk. 

1 quart of Campbell's cream. 1 pound of sugar. 

iScrape the chocolate into the milk and blend thoroughly. 

Add the cream and sugar. Strain and freeze. 

Maccaroon Ice Cream. 

Put in double boiler two quarts of Campbell's milk. When 
boilin^g hot add the yolks of six eggs, beaten very light 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed with a little cold milk, 
one teaspoonf ul of salt. Set on back of the stove for nearly one 
hour, ',but do not iboil after adding eggs. Then turn the cus- 
tard into an open dish and when cold add one pint of Camp- 
bell's cream and one-half pint of thick, sour cream, tablespoon- 
ful of vanilla extract and three quarters of a pound of grated 
maccaroons (stale, as they grate better). Then freeze as ordin- 
ary ice cream. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

Take one quart of juicy peaches of fine flavor, cut up withr 
out peeling and put in a bowl with one cu^pf ul of sugar. When 
sugar is dissolved, put in cheese cloth and wring all the juice 
out, then add one pint of Campbell's cream, which iis best to 
have scalded as in receipt for vanilla and cooled, then put in 
freezer and freeze the same as for vanilla. 

Pistache Ice Cream. 

1 pint of Campbell's cream. 1 cupful of sugar. 

1 pint of Campbell's milk. 1 lemon. 

V2 pound of Pistachio nuts. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

14 pound of sweet almonds. 

Blanch the, nuts and pound them to a paste in a mortar. 
Bring the milk and cream to a boiling point, remove from the 
fire, stir in the nuts, flavoring and sugar, \30lor with extract of 
spinach. When cold freeze as usual. 

Raspberry Ice Cream. 

1 pound of raspberry jam. 1 pint of Campbell's milk. 

2 lemons. A few drops of cochineal, 
1 quart of Campbell's cream. 

Strain the lemon juice as usual over the jam, stir in a few 
drops/ of cochineal, add the milk and cream, beat well and 
freeze. 

96 



strawberry Ice Cream. 

Take two quarts of strawberries and after bulling them put 
them in a large bowl with two cupfuls of sugar over them and 
allow them to remain until berries have absorbed sugar. Then 
take a square of cheese cloth and spread over another bowl. 
Put berries and sugar in cloth and squeeze until juice is all 
out. Then put what remains in cloth in a bowl and add about 
a pint of Campbell's milk; stir them together; then put in cheese 
cloth and wring until nothing remains but a ball of seeds; then 
add a generous pint of Campbell's cream, which should be 
scalded and cooled, put in freezer and freeze. 

Note. — Raspberries may be prepared in the same manner. 
A few drops of cochineal improves the color, which is apt to be 
dull. 

Frozen Strawberry Froth. 

1 pint jar of strawberry pre- 1 tablespoonful of gelatine, 
"serves. Cold water. 

1/^ pint of Campbell's cream. 

Pour the strawberries into a large bowl and mix a pint of 
cold v/ater with them. Soak the gelatine in half a cupful of cold 
water for twenty or thirty minutes, when soft dissolve by pour- 
ing over it a cupful of boiling water. Now mix it with the 
strawberries, taste and if not sweet enough, add sugar. Put 
into the freezer and pack around it cracked ice and rock salt, as 
for ice cream. Let it stand while you whip the cream stiff with 
an egg; beater. When this is done the strawberries will be well 
chilled and ready to be beaten by turning the crank of the 
freezer very rapidly for five minutes. Now add the whipped 
cream and freeze, turning the crank fast. When well frozen 
take out the dasher and press the froth down with a wooden 
spoon, and let it stand until time to sen-e. It is better not 
frozen very hard. Beginning to make it an hour before dinner 
will allow ample time. In the season of fresh strawberries 
substitute one quart of these for the preserves and add two cup- 
fuls of sugar to the berries, after they shall have been capped 
and crushed. 

Frozen Custard. 

2 quarts of Campbell's milk. V2 cupful of powdered sugar. 
10 eg-g-s. :' 

Boil the milk in a double saucepan, add the sugar to the 
boiling milk, then pour it over the eggs, beating all the time. 
Put it over the fire again, and as soon as it thickens strain into 
the can, let it cool before freezing. 

Nesselrode Pudding. 

Shell four cupfuls of Italian chestnuts, remove the brown 
skin, simmer for thirty minutes until soft, drain, press through 
a colander. Cut one and one-quarter pounds of candied fruit 

97 



into small pieces and pour one glass of sherry over it. Boil one 
and one-half eupfuls of sugar with one cupful of water for 
fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs very Ught, add 
them to the boiling syrup, stir over the fire until boiling point, 
remove and beat while cooling. Add one quart of Campbell's 
cream, well whipped, the fruit, wine and one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Turn into a freezer. When frozen pack and it is then 
ready for use. 

Sherbet. 

Take the whites of fifteen eggs and beat to a stiff froth, then 
take one and one-half pounds of white sugar and put on the fire 
with enough water to moisten it well. Let it boil imtil it ropes 
and pour it over the whites of the beaten eggs, and beat hard 
until cold. Add to the above one gallon of Campbell's cream 
and one-half gallon of Campbell's milk, two pineapples, grated 
(taking out the bitter center), eight lemons, grated (taking out 
the seeds) ; put all of this into the freezer, mix thoiX)ughly and 
freeze hard. 

Chestnut Ice Cream. 

3 eggs. V2 teacupful of sugar. 

1/^ pint of Camptoell's milk. 1 saltspoonful of salt. 

1 pint of Campbell's cream. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat the yolks of the eggs, 
adding the sugar and salt. Pour the cream slowly into them, 
stirring well. Then add the hot milk, and M'hen well mixed 
pour all back into the double boiler and stir until it thickens 
to the consistency of molasses. It is not necessary to strain 
custard for ice cream as the freezing removes all signs of curd- 
ling. While the custard is cooling, shell one quart of large 
French chestnuts and blanch them by pouring boiling water 
over them and then rubbing off the thin brown skin, which has 
been loosened by the hot water. Place the chestnuts in a 
saucepan, cover them with boiling water and boil them half 
an hour. Drain them and pound them in a mortar. If one does 
not possess a mortar a perfectly clean chopping bowl and potato 
masher is a fair substitute. After the chestnuts are pounded 
to a paste rub them through a puree sieve (which is only a 
sitrainer with large holes). Turn them into a saucepan with 
half a cupful of water and place over the fire. Stir until 
smooth, then remove from the fire and add the juice of a sour 
orange, half the grated peel and three tablespoonf uls of maras- 
chino or of sherry, or of rum. Add the mixture to the custard 
and stir it welL The chestnuts will lump more or less, but 
the freezing restores smoothness. Whip half a pint of Camp- 
bell's cream and add to the foregoing mixture. Pour the whole 
into a freezer, surround with ice and rock salt in the proportion 
of one part of salt to three parts of ice. Have the ice cracked 
fine and put first a layer of Ice and then a layer of salt until 
the pail in which the freezer stands is full. Turn the handle 

98 



of the freezer slowly at first, then faster until you cannot turn 
any longer. The freezing takes about half an hour with a 
White Mountain freezer. When the cream is frozen, either re- 
move it to an ice cream mould or, if you have none, take out 
the beater, scrape off the cream and replace the cover of the 
freezer, corking it tightly. Before doing this stir a cupful of 
chopped dates through the cream. Replenish the ice and salt, 
cover the pail with a piece of old carpeting and leave in a cool 
place until time for serving the cream, which should be about 
an hour later. 



INFANTS' AND INVALIDS' FOOD. 

In the preparation of food for infants or invalids it is impor- 
tant that milk should not only be perfectly sweet, but fresh and 
as pure as the latest scientific supervision can secure it. Camp- 
bell's milk possesses these advantages. It is from well-selected, 
healthy stock, fed according to the best approved directions of 
those who have made the subject of the milk supply a study. 
It is put up in bottles which are chemically clean and the whole 
dairy system of the company in under the strictest supervision. 

Sugar for the use of invalids or infants should be either 
granulated or loaf, for these are the freest from adulteration. 
They are identical except in form, so either may be used with 
safety. 

Flour should be well sifted and dried. Opinions differ as 
to the correct proportion of whole wheat and users must be 
guided by their own or their physician's judgment. 

For an invalid the food should be in small quantities and 
daintily served. A little taken often will give the same amount 
of nourishment without offending the sight and appetite as 
the same quantity would if brought to the patient at one time. 
Sterilized milk was a great discovery, but it has been found 
that by the original process some of the valuable nutritive prop- 
erties of the milk are lost. In Pasteurized milk this Obstacle 
has been overcome, and, while perfectly sterilized, it retains 
the necessary chemical composition. 

Infants' Food. 

2 teaspoonfuls of prepared V2 pint of hot water. 

barley. V2 pint of Campbell's Pasteur- 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. ized milk. 

Blend the barley in a little cold water, add the hot water 
and boil three minutes, stirring constantly, remove from the 
fire, add the sugar, salt and milk. Put half the quantity in a 
nursing bottle, with a tablespoonful of lime water. The re- 
mainder keep on ice. Warm for second feeding. 

Note.— The contributor of the foregoing receipt adds a P. S. : 
"A delicate baby ,successfully raised on it." 

99 



Infants' Food. No. :i. 

1 quart of Campbell's milk. 3 teaspoonfuls of granulated 

8 teasipoonfuls of prepared sugar. 

barley. 
Mix your barley and sugar iu half a tumblerful of water. 
To this add one and one-half pints of boiling water. Pour this 
and the barley into a pan and boil for six minutes, stirring 
constantly. When it has cooled, add to your milk. No cream 
need be used for fattening a ba.by, the cream on Campbell's 
milk being of sufficient strength and purity for any infant or 
cliild a year old, or, as long as it may be necessary to use a 
bottle, 

P. /S.— I can recommend this to any mother. It saved my 
baby's life. The barley is only used to aid digestion. 

When I started using Cfljupbell's milk my baiby girl was in 
a very bad condition, having just recovered from a severe 
attack of cholera infantum. I came home from the country 
Avitli her on a pillow, not knowing which breath would be her 
last. She was ill from the use of skimmed milk and at eight 
weeks weighed five and one-half pounds. Immediately we 
started using Campbell'is milk we saw a steady improvement. 
She is now five months old and weighs twenty-two and one- 
half pounds. We owe all to Campbell's milk. I can recommend 
it for any baby, no matter how feeble or run down. 

Hot Milk. 

Hot milk at as high a temperature as it can be drank, is a 
most refresliing stimulant in cases of cold or over-fatigue. Its 
action is very quick and grateful. The effect of hot milk is far 
mare beneficial and lasting than that of alcohol. It gives 
real strength, as well as acting as a fillip. 

Barley Soup for the Sick. 

Into a pint of boiling water put one tablespoonful of barley, 
boil until soft enough to be strained, adding water if necessary. 
When done strain into a pint of Campbell's milk iheated to 
boiling point, let boil up once or twice and season to taste. 

Gelatine Milk. 

A Great Restorative. 

Boil a quarter of an ounce of gelatine j\ith a pint of Camp- 
bell's milk; to half, add a bit of sugar and for a change a bitter 
almond. Give this at bed time. Must not be too warm. 

Cream of Rice for the Sick. 

Boil one-half cupful of rice in one quart of water, to which 
has been added a half-teaspoonful of salt. When very soft, 
press through a coarse sieve and cool. Then add one cupful 
of Campbell's cream and beat lightly. This may be eaten with 
sugar, or, if preferred, seasoned with salt only. 

100 



Beef and 5a go. 
For the Sick. 

2 ounces of sago. V^ pint of Campbell's cream. 

4 eg-g-s (yolks). 1 pound of beef for beef tea. 
Wash sago well and put in one pint of water and cook until 

clear. Beat the eggs and add to sago and add the ere<am. To 
one pound of lean beef, chopped, add one quart of water, let 
simmer to a pint and strain, add slowly to the sago eggs and 
cream, and add a pinch of salt. Set on ice to cool. Portion: 
A wineglass full. 

Sweet, Sparkling Koumyss. 

1 yeast cake. 2 quarts of Campbell's milk. 

5 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 6 patent-stoppered lager beer 
4 tablespoonfuls of water. bottles. 

Dissolve the yeast cake in the water, stir the sugar intoi the 
milk and when it is thoroughly dissolved add the yeast cake 
mixture and mix it with the milk thorougldy. Put this mixture 
into the lx)ttles hut do not entirely till each one on account of 
the gas that will form. Set these bottles in a warm place, as 
warm as when you raise bread, for twelve or thirteen hours. 
Then st^nd ui>side down on the ice. Re<ady for use two days 
after. Use care in opening the bottles. 

Gruel Milk. 

1/^ pint of Campbell's milk. Grated nutmeg. 

1 small tablespoonful of oat- Butter size of a nutmeg, 
meal. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

Put the milk on the fire, stir dn the oatmeal till it boils. 
Cook three or four minutes and strain, add nutmeg, sugar and 
butter and serve very hot. 

Milk Punch. 

A Doctor's Receipt. 

Beat the yolk of an ^g^ very light. Put it into a glass and 
pour on it a large tablespoonful of brandy or whiskey, next a 
tablespoonful of sugar. Put cracked ice sufficient for about 
one-third of the tumbler and fill the glass with Campbell's milk. 
Shake it thoroughly, ix)uring it back and forth several times till 
verj^ well frothed. Strain it, sprinkle a little nutmeg on top and 
serve. 

Slierry Flip. 

Take tumbler one-third full of broken ice, break one ^^g into 
it, add ,one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, one ounce of 
siherry w^ine, a small quantity of Campbeirs milk. Shake well 
and serve with a. little nutmeg on top. 

Tonic for Consumptives. 

Contributed by a Trained Nurse- 
Half a pint of Campbell's milk, warmed and made very 

101 



sweet and two tablespoonfuls of the very beat rum. Take 
it the first thing in the morning and the last thing at night 

Old .persons who wish to take this to keep up their strength, 
must first boil the milk and let it get hike warm before drink- 
ing. When it lias once got cold, if not boiled, it will purge. 

Note.— The sender of the foregoing receipt says: '*It is in- 
valuable as by it we have prolonged the life of three, two years 
after they were given up by the medical fraternity." 

Soothing Draught for a Cough. 

Beat a fresh laid egg and ^mix it with a quarter of a pint of 
CampbeU's milk, warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire, the 
same of rose water and a little nutmeg, scraped. Do not warm 
it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. 



CHEESE. 

Cream Cheese. 

Take two quarts of Campbell's cream and put it into a clean 
wet cloth. Tie it iip and hang it in a cool place for ten days. 
Take it from the cloth and put it in another and then into a 
mould with a weight upon it for one week. Turn it twice a day. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Heat sour milk until the whey rises to the top or until the 
curd separates from the whey. Take it with a perforated 
skimmer into a colander to drain, while it is warm add to the 
curd butter and isweet cream and salt; work them in with the 
hands to the consistency of soft dough (not in the colander, but 
mix in an earthen bowl). Make into large snow balls and eat 
fresh. 

Pot Cheese. ( 

Scald sour milk until the whey rises to the top. Then skim 
out the curd and put it into a nice, clean cotton bag and hang • 
it up to drain for five or six hours. Do not squeeze it. After 
the whey has all dripped out put the curd in a bowl, salt to 
taste and work in thoroughly with your hand a large spoon- v 
f ul of butter and two spoonfuls of rich cream to every pint of ^ 
curd. Then mould it into balls or small flat cakes and keep in 
a cool place. 

Maccaroni with Cheese. 

Take half a package of ma<?caroni, break in small pieces 
and boil in salted water until tender. Butter a baking dish, 
put a layer of the maccaroni in the bottom of at, then cover with 

102 



grated cheese, continuing to do this until the dish is nearly full, 
having the top layer of cheese. Pour as much Campbell's milk 
over it as the dish will hold well and bake about twenty min- 
utes or until well browned. 

Cheese Fondu. 

One and one-half cupfuls of bread crumbs, one cupful of 
grated cheese, one cupful of Campbell's milk, two eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately and very light, butter the size of an 
egg, a pinch of salt and a suspicion of cayenne pepper. Heat 
milk in a double kettle, and just before it boils put in all the 
ingredients, first the butter, then bread crumbs, yolks of eggs, 
cheese, salt, pepper and whites of eggs and mix well. Bake 
in a very quick oven about fifteen minutes. Serve immediately. 



OMELETS. 

When one has learned the art of making salad dressings 
and omelets she may consider herself a proficient in cookery. 
Both require the patience, exactness and daintiness that come 
only with professional skill or housewifely intelligence. 

An omelet pan is a great convenience, but not an absolute 
necessity. The whites and yolks of the eggs may be beaten 
separately or together. Both methods will produce feathery 
omelets differing in taste, which will be a matter of individual 
preference. 

A syllabub whip, egg beater or a silver knife should be used 
for whisking. Good butter must be used for cooking omelets 
and scrambled eggs. An omelet should never be turned. Where 
objection is made to the slightly underdone flavor of the center 
of a thick omelet it may be remedied by the use of a salaman- 
der, which may be improvised by heating a shovel red hot and 
holding over the pan or by setting the omelet for just a moment 
into a hot oven. 

Plain Omelet. 

4 to 6 eggs. 2 ounces (scant) of butter. 

V2 to % cupful of Campbell's Salt and pepper, 
milk. 

AVhisk the eggs very light. Salt added to them will matep- 
ally assist the operation. Add the milk and mix thoroughly. 
Have the butter \evy hot, but be careful not to let it brown. 
Loosen the omelet at the edges of the pan and cut the bubbles 
with a silver knife, thus allowing the liquid to run into the 
vacuum formed. Cook over a slow but even fire. When set 
turn one-half the omelet over the other, slide it off upon a hot 
dish and serve immediately. 

• 103 



Bread Omelet. 

6 eg-gs Salt and pepper. 

Mj cupful of bread crurmbs. 2 ounces of butter. 

1/2 cuipful of Campbell's milk. 

Put the bread into an enameled saucepan, cover with the 
milk, set it on the fire and allow it to cook until it thickens by 
the bread having absorbed the milk. Remove from the fire and 
allow it to cool. Then add the eggs well beaten and cook as 
plain omelet. 

Savory Omelet. 
riain omelet with the addition of chopped parsley. Some 
add onion (spring onions finely minced are excellent for the 
purpose) and others a sprinkle of thyime. 

A little rich cheese, finely grated and beaten slightly with 
the eggs before cooking converts this into a cheese omelet. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

6 eggs 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1/2 pint of Campbell's cream. V2 teaspoonful of pepper. 

To six eggs, broken into a bowl, add half a pint of cream, a 
teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Beat 
with a fork just enough to break the yolks of the eggs and 
amalgamate them somewhat Avith the cream. -Have an iron 
or graniteware frying pan on the side of the stove where the 
heat is gentle. Pour the mixture of eggs and milk into the fry- 
ing- pan and stir constantly until the mixture growS' creamy. 
Remove from the fire before it is quite as thick as you want it, 
as it thickens somewhat in the interval between its removal 
from the fire and the eating of it, altliough this interA-al should 
be made as ibrief as possible. It takes longer to scramble eggs 
in this way than to scramble them without the cream, but the 
result is very delicate and particularly nice for invalids where 
nourishment must be made an object. 



104 



nf^-(^yT^^ ^ ^^»>»BB » ^T»^^"^•^l'»^g^^^»^»^»g^l^l»^n!g^yy^^^^^l^• 

A Novel Hxhibition. 

The First of its Kind in This Country. 

^v ip^ t^^ 

Wc have established at 63 LAFAYETTE AVENUE 
a permanent 

Working Model Dairy^ 
Ice Cream Rooms and Soda Spa* 

Daily exhibits of 

SEPARATING CREAM FROM MILK BY THE FAMOUS DE 
LAVAL SEPARATOR. 

THE ENTIRE PROCESS OF MAKING OUR CELEBRATED 
*• A. C." BRAND OF FINE CREAM BUTTER. 

THE MANUFACTURE OF FANCY CHEESES ("A. C," 
Brand) 

THE MAKING OF ALEX. CAMPBELL'S UNEQUALLED ICE 
CREAM. 

And all the details of a MODERN, WELL-APPOINTED DAIRY, 
equipped with the latest devices and improved machinery for obtaining 
the BEST RESULTS. 

One of the Sights of Brooklyn. Don't Miss It. 

^^w ^^* i^» 

Orders taken at the desk for our 

ABSOLUTELY PURE IVOLK, 
RICH CREAM, 

FRESH BUTTERMILK, 
FANCY CHEESES, 
ICE CREAA^ 

WHIPPED CREAM, ETC, 

Or may be sent by Postal Card to 

The Alex. Campbell Milk G)mpany, % 

(New York Dairy Co.,) 
802 Fulton Street, 9 Clinton Street, 4-6 Bond Street. 

Telephone " 44 Brooklyn." 



THE 



Quarantee of Exceflence. 



OUR "TRADE MARK. 



tt 



A.C.M.CO. 



I 




The Alex. Campbell Milk Company, 

(NEW YORK DAIRY CO^) 

Head Office^ 802 Fulton Street Branch Office, 9 Clinton Street. 

Dairy Lunch Rooms, 4-6 Bond Street, 
Working Dairy, Ice Cream Rooms and Soda Spa, 63 Lafayette Avenue. 

Creameries and Receiving Stations : 
Blooming Grove, Orange County, N. Y4 Summit, Broome County, 
N. Y.J Oxford, Orange County, N. Y4 Great Bend, Pa. 

The Herbert Booth King & Brother Publishing Company. Prs., 32 E. 23d St.. N. Y. 



^E&^tti&iss^.. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 487 680 5 



I 











