LIBRARY OFXONGRESS. 

^\ - \\^. 

Chai)..^.V.rCopyright No. 

Shelf...JA-? 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



)7 Edition. 



Price Fifty Cents. 




Philadelphia, Pa. U.S.A. 



THE ENTERPRISING 
HOUSEKEEPER 

Suggestions for 

BREAKFAST 
LUNCHEON 
AND SUPPER 



By 

HELEN LOUISE JOHNSON 



Cla^ 



xi^' 



m " 









Issued by 

The Enterprise Manufacturing Co* of Pa» 
Philadelphia, Pa. 






A^^s 



/.v?- 



Copyright, 1896, by Helen Louise Johnson 



PREFACE 

THE list of culinary literature is so large that it is 
almost the fashion to apologize for taxing a 
much-abused public with the burden of a new 
book on this subject. The ones most valued, however, 
do not appear among the names of those counted by 
the bookseller, for no heir-loom could be more fondly 
cherished than is the old family, pen-written cook book, 
made precious by years of service* Local cook books 
have a value not represented by a royaUy paid, for 
recipes which have stood the tests of time and experi- 
ence are of special worth. 

The aim of this little book is not only to aid the 
housekeeper in the use of such labor-saving utensils as 
are here represented, but to give her a compilation of 
practical, tested recipes written for simple every-day 
use. An embarrassment of riches has purposely been 
avoided, for there are usually two or three good modes 
of cooking certain materials, and one becomes discour- 
aged in trying to select from a bewildering number of 
recipes for the same thing. 



Of 



^^^^-fi^O^ you are a Progfressivc 
Housewife and will cer- 
tainly be interested in one or more of 
the time, labor, and money-savingf de- 
vices herein described. By their use 
many things may be utilized in the 
kitchen that heretofore you or your 
cook have been in the habit of wasting. 

We make a large line of Patented 
Specialties not described in these pages. 
Catalogue containing full description 
mailed free. 

All the goods of our manufacture 
are strictly first-class and can be 
procured in any Hardware or House- 
furnishing store in the universe. 
Should you be unable to procure any 
desired article from your dealer, we 
-will gladly forward same direct on 
receipt of price. 






The Enterprise Manufacturing Co. of Pa. 
Philadelphia, Pa. U. S. A. 



The Enterprise 
Family Outfit of 




Sad Irons 



A Handsome Wedding 
or Christmas Present 




No. 330 -Nickel-Plated, $3.75 
No. 335-PoIished, 3.50 

OUR object in supplying the outfit in a case, as illustrated, is to make 
it a convenient article for the tidy housekeeper. Each case contains 
a set of Mrs. Potts' Cold Handle Sad Irons, a Polishing Iron, and a 
Girl's Iron. The handles of all our Mrs. Potts' Irons have a Forged 
Iron Stretcher which will not break. 

It has been clearly demonstrated that a set of Sad Irons is useful only 
as long as the handles last, and if these are so cheaply made as to be easily 



broken, keeping the laundry well supplied ceases to be an inexpensive 
matter. With all kitchen utensils aad appointments nothing is as cheap as 
the best. 

We are the original manufacturers of the popular Mrs. Potts' Irons, 
and from the first have never spared pains nor expense to add to their 
utility and durability. These irons are so well and favorably known that 
we will refer but briefly to a few main points of superiority. They are 
ground by patented machinery which makes every iron true, and the face 
of the iron made slightly convex, thus making ironing easier than with the 
old-style flat irons. The detachable handles are of walnut, excepting 
the lower part, which is made of forged, not cast iron ; they do not become 
heated, require no holder or cloth, and fit naturally to the hand without 
straining the arm or wrist. 

When ordering from your hardware merchant, be sure to ask for and 
^^/ " The Enterprise." No irons but those made by the Enterprise 
Manufacturing Co. of Pa. have forged iron Stretchers on the handle. 



Introduction 



T 



^^ r I AlME is money." The man who has the ability to 
turn out as finished work as his neighbor in one- 
half the time consumed by him, has an earning 
capacity twice as great. The mechanical device which 
enables a manufacturer to double his output within a 
stated period increases his income by saving time. These 
truisms apply to the home as well as to the shop, and 
the principles concerning energy are as fixed in the device 
called man as they are in any machine. That labor-saving 
machine which enables a woman to accomplish in one hour 
the work generally done in two, doubles her working capacity 
as well. Division of labor makes the producing of a 
hundred machines a day a possibility. Such conditions are 
attainable to a limited extent only, in the ordinary house- 
hold, and the result of saving time and strength must be sought 
for in other ways. A man may argue that a woman's time 
represents no money value ; or a woman that she pays her 
cook the same whether she works all day or only half ; this is 
like looking at the moon when half of it is still in shadow. 
Saving a woman's time may not mean a return in actual dol- 
lars and cents, but saving her energy does. If your cook 
can accomplish her work in such time that she has a portion of 
each day for rest or recreation, that work will undoubtedly be 



better done. The better equipped the shop the better work 
it can turn out in a limited time, and the well-fitted kitchen 
represents the engine-room of the home, where energy, 
health and often happiness are manufactured. Men .often 
refuse the money for kitchen equipment, paying many times 
as much in doctors' bills without realizing why ; and the 
bills represent only a portion of the loss. The women who 
lack mechanical ability to see the saving use of certain 
devices are apt to decline to adopt them — the others only 
because, for some reason, they must. Simple explanations of 
the workings of the machines mentioned are given with the 
guarantee of the manufacturers to do all in their power toward 
remedying seeming or actual defects. It is more often the 
case than not, that when a Meat Chopper will not work, its 
Knife has been put in wrong side out, and the machine, not 
the worker, receives the blame for the worker's error. Read 
the directions carefully, and follow them. 



BREAKFAST 

American habits make the American breakfast a necessity. While 
some weary housekeeper may long for an ideal condition of a roll and a 
cup of coffee as a fast-breaker, the healthy appetites of man and child 
demand more substantial fare. Americans are not only an active but as a 
race a hard-working people. The ordinary French or English breakfast 
customs are out of place when the head of the house must be early and 
late at his desk, and physically fortified for continued mental or bodily 
strain. That the meal must be a hearty one is no reason why it cannot be 
a dainty one. 

The large number of delicious breakfast dishes which require only a 
limited amount of attention and interest to understand and cook, make the 
needless repetition of beefsteak and chops, chops and beefsteak, more than 
an extravagance. 

Where the market is limited, the variety, which is often an actual phy- 
sical necessity as the spice of life, is hard to obtain unless resource be had 
in the different modes of preparing the same materials. The morning 
meal should be refreshing, as well as nourishing, and this can only be 
accomplished by adapting it to the season's requirements. Fruits in their 
season are more appetizing at breakfast than at any other time of day. 
Oranges, shaddocks, melons, berries, tomatoes and cucumbers are all 
refreshing when properly served. The many good cereals are almost 
invaluable to growing children, and often scarcely less so to those of 
maturer years. A chapter might be written on " W'hat to do with the 
left-overs", but as these mainly consist of meat and potatoes, it can be 
written in few words : Serve them for breakfast, luncheon or tea, disguised 
and made over in a hundred different ways, many of which are given in 
the following recipes : 

BREAKFAST MENUS 
Spring 

Fruit 

Baked Hash 

Com Bread Coffee 

Quaker Oats 

Ham Omelet Creamed Potatoes 

Muffins Coffee 



JO THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Fruit 

Cracked Wheat 

Minced Hash on Toast Hashed Brov/n Potatoes 

Popovers Coffee 

Summer 

Fruit 

Frizzled Beef Baked Potatoes 

Rice Muffins Coffee 



Fruit 

Farinose 

Parsley Omelet Broiled Tomatoes 

Muffins Coffee 



Autumn 

Fruit 

Ham Patties Potato Cakes 

Rolls Coffee 

Oatmeal 

Corn Beef Hash 

Griddle Cakes Coffee 

Fruit 

Cracked Wheat 

Meat Sausages Potatoes Hashed in Cream 

Popovers Coffee 

"Winter 

Hominy 

Hamburg Steaks Stewed Potatoes 

Corn Dodgers Coffee 

Quaker Oats 

Sausp.ge Hashed Browned Potatoes 

Buckwheat Cakes Coffee 



Fruit 
Germea 
Hash on Toast Sauted Potatoes 
Waffles Coffee 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



11 



The Enterprise 

Coffee Mills 



All our Family Mills are 
"Pulverizers" and are especially 
adapted for making 
*' French ' ' Coffee . 




No* 0, $t.50 

Capacity of Hopper, 4 oz. Coffee. 



The Mills shown on this 
page will grind 6 oz. Coffee 
.per minute. 




No. 00, $J.25 

Capacity of Hopper, 
4 oz. Coffee. 




No. t, $2,25 

Capacity of Hopper, 4 oz. Coffee. 



12 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



The Enterprise 

Coffee Mills 




No. 2, $3.50 

Capacity of Iron Hopper, 

4 oz. Coffee. 

Will grind 6 oz. Coffee 

per minute. 



Highly ornamented 
and handsome 



in appearance. 



Grinders warranted 
equal to steel. 




No. 2^, $4.50 

Capacity of Nickel-plated 

Hopper, 7 oz. Coffee 

Will grind 6 oz. Coffee 

per minute. 




No. 3, $5.00 

Capacity of Iron Hopper, ^ lb. 

Coffee. Will grind >^ lb 

Coffee per minute. 



A Coffee Mill is a household necessity if one wishes good coffee. 
Ground coffee quickly loses its strength, and the amount required at any 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 13 



one time should be ground just before using. There is another reason for 
home grinding, too often overlooked by the consumer. You may purchase 
the best Java and Mocha, but the purchaser just before you selected an 
inferior grade of Rio ; his coffee was coarsely giound, yours is to be 
finer. The result appears in the next morning's cup of coffee, when the 
flavor of the rank Rio, grains of which have gone through the grinder with 
your better grade, is stronger than that of the other mixture. 

In seleciing a Coffee Mill it is better to take one that stands on a 
shelf or table, as Nos. i or 2, than those screwed upon the wall. The 
former are more apt to be cleaned often, require less time to operate, and 
save all the coffee and its strength. The Cotiee Mill should not be used 
for grinding spices, unless these flavorings are desired in the coftee. 

The fineness of the grinding is regulated by the thumb-screw at the 
end of the shaft. Put the measured coffee in the hopper, see that the 
receiving drawer or receptacle is clean, and turn the crank or wheel-to the 
right. If grinding for drip coffee, tighten the thumb-screw so that the 
coffee is pulverized ; if for boiled coffee loosen the screw accordingly. 

The grinders are strong and do their work evenly. If, after con- 
tinued use, their working power be impaired a new set can be put i^n at 
small cost, all the grinders being interchangeable, as well as all the other 
parts of any of the mills. 

Do not wash the mill, but keep it clean, wiping the hopper and drawer 
often ; wheels and working parts when necessary. 

COFFEE 

There seem to be as many variations in the making of coffee as there 
are grades of the raw material, and all supplied by the same person. The 
cook who can make a cup of delicious coffee always, provide good bread 
and broil a beefsteak as it should be, is a treasure whether she knows the 
boiling point of water or that yeast is a plant. Java ard Mocha are usu- 
ally considered the best varieties, and the proportion of two-thirds Java to 
one-third Mocha seems agreeable to most people. It must be remem- 
bered, however, that each variety of coffee has different grades, and the 
best assurance of good quality is the name of a reputable dealer on a cer- 
tain grade cr mixture of coffee of which he has made a specialty. The 
best quality of coff"ee can be spoiled in the making, and while that seems 
to be a very simple operation, to have it always right is one of the diffi- 



14 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

cullies of housekeeping. It is, ordinarily, better to purchase roasted 
coffee, for much of the flavor depends upon the evenness and degree of 
this process, and few homes have the faciHties for doing it properly. 
Keep it in air-tight cans and grind as needed for use, for ground coffee 
loses its strength even when kept most carefully. The Enterprise Coffee 
Mills have gauges with which to regulate the fineness or coarseness of the 
giinding, and this depends upon the method of making employed. For 
an infusion, the coffee should be pulverized; for a decoction, ground more 
coarsely. Too good care cannot be taken of the coffee pot, which should 
be of granite ware or porcelain, and kept scrupulously clean. 

The proportions remain the same, one heaping tablespoonful of coffee 
to one cup of boiling water, whether drip or boiled coffee is to be made; 
but something does depend upon the number of people. One-half cupful 
of ground coffee and one quart of water will make coffee for five people, 
but for one person one tablespoonful of ceffee and one cupful of water will 
not suffice, for the old idea of allowing so much for the pot has reason in 
its being. 

Drip Coffee 

Scald the coffee-pot and see that it is thoroughly heated. Grind the 
coffee to a fine powder. Have the water boiling, but use it at its first 
boil, before the gases have disseminated. Put the coffee in the percolator, 
and pour the water on the upper sieve. When there is much coffee to be 
made it takes some time for the percolation, and in order to have the 
coffee hot it is wise to stand the pot in hot water during the process. Drip 
coffee must be served at once. 

Boiled Coffee 

Scald out the coffee pot, and see that it is thoroughly heated. Grind 
the coffee, put it in the coffee pot, add the water boiling, cover the spout 
and let the water come to the boiling point. Stir in an egg-shell, crushed, 
and mixed with one tablespoonful of celd water. Let the coffee boil one 
minute. Let it stand where it will keep hot, but not boil, for ten minutes, 
and serve. 

To Make with Cold Water 

Mix the required amount of ground coffee with its proportion of water 
and let stand until ten minutes before breakfast is ready to serve. Let it 
come fully to the boiling point without the addition of hot water or egg 
and serve at once. 



THE ENTERPRISIN G HOUSEKEEP ER 15 

BREAKFAST BREADS AND CAKES 
Com Bread 

1 cupful of grains of gold i cupful of flour 

2 esss 'A cupful of sugar 

1 cupful of milk 2 teaspoonfuls of melted butter 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder >^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix the Indian meal and flour, and add the salt. Beat the eggs light 
without separating, add the sugar and beat until light. Add the milk and 
butter to the eggs and sugar, and the mixed meal and flour to this, beating 
all the while. When light and smooth and ready to bake, add the bakmg 
powder; turn into a greased shallow pan and bake twenty minutes in a 

quick oven. 

Corn Dodgers 

2 cupfuls of white cornmcal i lablespoonful of butter 
I teaspoonful of sugar i saltspoonful of salt 

3 tablespoonfuls of milk 2 eggs. 

Scald the meal, add the butter melted, the sugar, salt and milk. Mix 
well and cool. Beat' the yolks of the eggs until light, add to the batter 
and beat until smooth. Whip the whites to a stiff, dry froth, and mix 
gently and quickly with the batter. Tut by the tablespoonful into greased 
popover pans, and bake to a delicate brown in a very hot oven. 

Rice Muffins 
I cupful of boiled rice i cupful of flour 

I cupful of milk 2 teaspoonfuls of butter 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder 2 eggs. 

Melt the butter, add to the milk. Add the beaten yolks of the e-gs 
to the rice, and mix this with the flour. Add the milk gradually, beating 
until light and smooth. Whip the whites to a stiff, dry froth and add to the 
batter with the taking po'^der and a pinch of salt. Turn into hot, 
greased muffin pans, and bake twenty-five minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Graham Gems 

2 cupfuls of graham flour H cupful of white flour 
]4 cupful of sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

34: cupful of milk 2 teaspoonfuls of bakmg powder. 

Mix the flours, melt the butter. Add the sugar and butter to the 
milk, and this, gradually, to the flour, beating all the while. When light 
and smooth add the baking .powder, turn into hot, greased gem pans and 
bake thirty minutes in a moderately hot oven. 



26 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Enterprise Meat Chopper 




FEED-SCREW THUMB-SCREW 



When purchasing a Chopper, have the merchant from whom you buy 
explain the method of taking apart and putting it together. Many good 
articles are often condemned because of the ignorance of the user. The 
illustration represents the Chopper taken apart, each piece being named. 
The feed screw is first inserted in the cylinder with the knife in position, 
as shown. Next adjust the plate in the opening of the cylinder, with the 
flat side turned inwardly, care being taken that the notch in the plate fits 
into its corresponding place. Then screw on the ring, turning to the right, 
attach the crank, fastening same by means of the thumb-screw, and your 
Chopper is ready for use. 

Every Machine is fitted and tested before leaving the factory, and the 
parts can easily be put together. If they do not seem to fit, do not try to 
force them, but look for your mistake. A new Chopper should be cleansed 
before using, which can be done by passing through it partially stale 
bread. After being used for cutting meat, take the machine apart and 
wash each piece carefully with hot water, and after drying over a stove, or 
range, put together and away in a dry place. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 17 

To suit the different uses to which the Chopper may be put, plates 
are made with holes of various sizes, the one with y3_ jn. holes being 
standard and accompanies each machine. Plates with holes, either }{. in., 
^^ in., or y^ in., can be purchased separately. 

Among the numerous uses are those for making sausage, mincemeat, 
hash, scrapple, Hamburg steak, hog's head cheese, croquettes, chicken and 
lobster salads, also for chopping supt, tripe, codfish, clams, vanilla beans, 
peppers, cocoanuts, horseradish, meat for beef tea, scrap meat for 
poultry, corn for fritters, stale bread and crackers for crumbs, etc. 

It is preferable that the meat to be chopped should be first cut 
into strips. The small quantity of uncut meat remaining in the machine 
can be chopped by running through a second time some of the already 
cut meat. Our Choppers do not grind or tear the meat, but cut it as with 
a pair of scissors. It is impossible for any strings, sinews or gristle 
to pass through without being chopped clean and even. All parts are 
interchangeable, and can be replaced at small cost. The cutting parts 
being steel, they are vastly superior to the cast iron ones oi' other makes of 
Choppers. 

Observe the following instructions : 

First — Be sure the knife is in the Chopper with flat side against 
the plate. 

Second. — Do not attempt to sharpen the knife or plate. When 
dull, send them by mail to the factory for resharpening. 

Third. — Always use the same knife and plate together, or in 
pairs. 

Fourth. — Screw the ring up moderately tight, so as to be per- 
ceptible when turning the crank. 

Fifth. — Do not turn the crank backwards. 

Sixth. — See that the threads of the ring and on end of the 
cylinder are kept free from meat, etc. 

Seventh. — A plate with ^ in. boles is the most suitable for cut- 
ting hash. 

Eighth. — In cutting tallow or vanilla beans, first run through a 
coarse, then a fine, plate. 



18 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

The Enterprise 
NEW MEAT CHOPPER 

K| TINNED ik 





No. 2 — Chops I lb. per minute, $1,75 
No. 4 — Chops I ''2 lbs. per minutt% 2.25 
No. 6 — Chops 2 lbs, per minute, 2.75 

The Progressive Housewife will at once appreciate its worth for 
use in the kitchen every day in the year. 



These were designed with a view of making a Chopper so simple a^ 
not to require directions how to use, and therefore especially adapted for 
family use. They arc practically in two pieces, hence no small parts to 
lose. Can be taken apart in a second and easily cleaned. Leaves no meat 
in the machine, consequently no waste. Keep Chopper clean, and dry 
thoroughly after using. If Chopper is cleaned by passing through stale 
brt ad or crackers, washing is unnecessary ; simply wipe out, put together 
and away. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 19 

BREAKFAST MEATS 

Hash 

This distinguished dish has been much abused, for when well made 
there is no breakfast dish more appreciated or wholesome. There is a 
small summer resort in northern New York noted for its table, chiefly 
because of its delicious hash almost invariabl}'- served for breakfast. The 
making of this dish needs as strict attention to details as the making of 
any ; meat and potatoes chopped together and warmed through do not con- 
stitute hash or deserve the name. Nor will meat actually unfit for any 
other purpose make good hash, although much that cannot be otherwise 
utilized may be used here. A chopper should be selected which does not 
grind or tear the meat, but cuts it in even-sized pieces with the nicety of 
scissors. 

New York Hash 

To every cupful of cooked, chopped meat take 
2 cupfuls of chopped potatoes 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

y^ cupful of boiHng water or stock Seasonings to taste. 
For this, beef is most generally taken, although corned beef, chicken, 
turkey, veal or even mutton may be used. The cold meat should be 
chopped rather fine, and the potatoes not chopped until cold. Season the 
meat and potatoes; put the water and butter over the fire, and when the 
water boils again add the meat and potatoes. Nothing is better to cook 
hash in than an old-fashioned iron saucepan or spider. The difficulty of 
making good hash lies in the cooking, for it must be stirred, yet not too 
much or it will be pasty ; the water should boil away, yet the hash must 
not be dry, nor yet watery. Let it cook, stirring occasionally, until there 
is a coating on the bottom of the pan from which the hash can be freed 
without sticking. Serve at once. 

Corned Beef Hash 

may be made in the same way, or using equal proportions of chopped meat 
and potatoes. Many prefer a slight flavoring of onion, when it is advisable 
to use a few drops of onion juice or extract rather than the chopped onion 
itself. 

Minced Hash on Toast 
To lYz cupfuls of minced meat 
use I cupful of brown or white sauce. 
Chop the meat quite fine. If beef, mutton or lamb is to be used make 



20 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

a brown sauce as follows: Melt and, brown one tablespoonfui of butler; 
add one tablespoonfui of flour, stir until smooth and well browned. Add 
one cupful of stock or hot water (stock preferred) and one and one-half 
cupfuls of the minced meat. Season to taste with salt, pepper, two or 
three drops of onion juice or one teaspoonful of curry powder, if desired. 
Stir carefully until well mixed and thoroughly heated, and serve at once 
on toast. 

With chicken or turkey a white sauce should be made with one table- 
spoonful of butter, one tablespoonfui of flour and one cupful of milk, 
cream or white stock. Melt the butter without browning ; add the flour, 
stir until smooth but not browned, add the milk and minced meat. Sea- 
son, stir until well mixed and heated, and serve at once on toast. 

If eggs are to be served with the hash, cut the toast with a large round 
patty cutter. Put a thick layer of the minced meat on each piece and 
place a poached egg carefully on each. The eggs should be trimmed to 
fit the toast and must be poached while the hash is heating, so that all may 
be sent to the table piping hot. No matter how good the hash, it loses its 
flavor if served cold, and a cold poached egg is never acceptable. 

Baked Hash 

2 cupfuls of meat 2 cupfuls of potatoes 

I tablespoonfui of butter 2 cupfuls of stock 

Seasoning to taste. 

Melt the butter in the frying pan; add the stock and, when heated, 
the meat and potato well mixed. Season to taste and stir occasionally 
until well heated. Turn into a greased baking dish and bake thirty min- 
utes in a moderately quick oven. 

Meat Sausages 

2 cupfuls of meat % cupful of pork 

2 level teaspoonfuls of pepper A pinch of thyme or sweet marjoram 

3 drops of lemon juice Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Use cooked meat and chop very fine. The poik should be measured 
after chopping and should be less rather than more than the amount given. 
Mix the dry seasonings with the meat and pork, and add the yolks of the 
eggs beaten light. When thoroughly mixed, form into small, flat sausage 
cakes and saute in a frying pan. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 21 



Meat Cakes 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked meat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

5 tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs I small onion 

2 eggs Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the onion very line. Beat the eggs light without separating. 
Melt the butter, add to the cracker crumbs, mix with the eggs, meat and 
seasoning. Make into flat cakes and saute in butter or dripping. 

Mutton Cecils 

2 cupfuls of chopped, cooked mutton 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

I tablespoon ful of bread crumbs 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley- 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the bread crumbs, and when well mixed, the 
meat, seasoned. Add the beaten yolks of the eggs and stir in a saucepan 
over the fire until the mixture is heated through. Cool, form into snia'l 
round balls, cover with egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. 

RAGOUTS 

These are easily made after one has mastered the art of sauces, upon 
which their success depends. They may be varied either by the kind of 
sauce used or by the addition of mushrooms, tomatoes, currant jelly, etc. 

Mutton Ragout 

2 cupfuls of cold chopped meat I teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce 
I tablespoonful of butter l tablespoonful of flour 

I cupful of stock I tablespoonful of catsup 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Melt and brown the butter, add the flour, stir until smooth and brown. 
Add the stock ; cook until it thickens. Add the mutton, turn into a farina 
boiler and cook for twenty minutes. When ready to serve, add the Worces- 
tershire sauce and catsup ; season further, if necessary, and serve. 

Creamed Chicken 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked chicken 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I cupful of milk i cupful of cream 

Yolk of I egg I tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



22 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Melt the butter, add the flour and stir until smooth. Add the milk 
and cream ; stir until it begins to thicken, turn into a farina boiler and add 
the chicken. When thoroughly heated, add the yolk of the egg and 
parsley. Mix, season to taste, and serve on toast or in a potato border. 

Hamburg Steaks 

I pound of steak from the round 
I teaspoonful of salt I tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

)4 teaspoonful of pepper 2 or 3 drops of onion extract 

A very little thyme or sweet marjoram may be added if desired. 

Chop the meat fine, mix well with the seasonings. Form into small 
steaks with the hand. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the frying pan. 
When heated, put in the steaks ; let them cook slowly until done half way 
through ; turn over and cook on the other side. Serve with a brown or 
mushroom sauce. 

Ham Patties 

I cupful of finely chopped cooked ham 
y^ cupful of fine bread crumbs i tablespoonful of butter 

)4 cupful of milk I teaspoonful of salt 

^ teaspoonful of pepper. 
Mix the meat with the bread crumbs and seasonings; add the butter 
melted. Moisten with the milk, and half fill greased patty pans with the 
mixture. Break one egg carefully on the top of each, sprinkle with a little 
salt and pepper, and cover with fine bread or cracker crumbs. Bake eight 
minutes in a quick oven. Serve at once. 

Sausages 

2 pounds of /ean fresh pork 3 teaspoonfuls of sifted sage 

I pound of /at fresh pork 2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper 

3 teaspoonfuls of salt }{ teaspoonful of allspice. 

Chop the meat, fat and lean together, very fine, and mix thoroughly 
with the seasonings. Make cotton bags the desired shape and length ; dip 
them in a strong brine and dry. Attach the sausage stufifer to the meat 
chopper, and with it press the meat into the bags as closely as possible; 
tie the bags tightly and hang in a cool place. When using sausage from 
these the end should be turned back and after the desired amount has been 
•cut off", tie closely again. Cut the sausage in slices and saute until brown. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 23 



Scrapple 

Separate one small hog's head into halves. Take out the eyes and 
brains ; scrape and thoroughly clean the head. Put it into a large kettle, 
cover with four or five quarts of cold water, and simmer gently for two or 
three hours, or until the meat falls from the bones. Skim the grease care- 
fully from the surface, remove the meat, chop fine, and return it to the 
liquor. Season it with one teaspoonful of powdered sage, salt and pepper. 
Sift in granulated, yellow corn meal, stirring constantly until it is the con- 
sistency of soft mush. Cook slowly for one hour, watching carefully, as it 
scorches easily. When cooked, pour into a greased, oblong tin, and put 
in a cold place. Cut in thin slices, and fry crisp and brown. 

Codfish Balls 

1 cupful of salt fish 2 cupfuls of potatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream I tablespoonful of melted butter 
I egg Pepper to taste. 

Wash and pick over the fish, shredding it into small pieces. Peel the 
potatoes and cut in quarters. Put the fish and potatoes together in a sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, and cook twenty-five minutes, or until the 
potatoes are tender. Watch them that they may not cook until soggy. 
Drain thoroughly, mash and beat with a fork until light. Add the butter, 
mix, and cool slightly. Add the egg beaten without separating and the 
cream, unless the mixture be too soft, adding gradually, as the entire quan- 
tity given may not be required. Make into balls, cover with egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. If handled and fried carefully, these 
may be cooked if desired without the egg and bread crumb covering. 

Fish Hash 

Use the same proportions as given for codfish balls. The fish and 
potatoes may be cooked together the day before, drained, and left standing 
until ready to prepare for breakfast. Then heat and add the egg, butter 
and cream. Beat until very light and brown slightly in a frying-pan. 
Fold like an omelet, and serve on a heated dish. 



24 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



POTATOES 

There are many, many ways of cooking and serving potatoes ; the only 
trouble is to think of them and thus give the pleasurable variety which 
adds so much to simple things. 

RECIPES IN WHICH BOILED POTATOES ARE USED 

Hashed Browned Potatoes 

Cut three good-sized potatoes into very small dice ; season with salt 
and pepper. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a frying pan ; when 
melted and hot add the chopped potatoes. Stir until the potatoes are well 
mixed with the butter and have begun to be heated. Then push the pota- 
toes over to one side of the pan and keep over a moderate fire, without 
siirring, for fifteen or twenty minutes. The potatoes should form together 
and brown in the shape of an omelet. When ready to serve, loosen them 
from the pan by carefully slipping a knife under them; put a small platter 
over the pan and turn upside down so that the potatoes will come out in a 
roll upon it. Chopped parsley may be added just before turning, if desired. 

Creamed Potatoes 

The best result is obtained by using freshly-boiled potatoes, stewing or 
creaming them while warm. This, however, is rarely done, as for break- 
fast potatoes boiled the day before are usually to be warmed over. Chop 
the potatoes in small dice, and to every pint of potatoes make a pint of 
cream sauce as follows : Melt one tablespoonful of butter, add one table- 
spoonful of flour. Mix until smooth. Add two cupfuls of good milk, or, 
better, one cupful of milk and one of cream. Stir until the butter and 
flour are well mixed with the liquid, then add the potatoes. Put on the 
back part of the stove, and cook slowly, stirring only occasionally, and 
then with care, until the potatoes have nearly absorbed the milk. If 
stirred often or vigorously the potatoes will become mashed and pasty, yet 
care must be taken that the milk does not scorch. Season, just before 
serving with salt, pepper and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. If the 
salt be added to the potatoes before cooking in the milk it often curdles it. 

When using freshly-boiled potatoes, make an ordinary cream sauce in 
the proportion of a cupful of sauce to each cupful of chopped potatoes ; 
add the potatoes and cook until well mixed and heated. Serve at once. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 25 



Fried Potatoes 

Cut boiled potatoes into even thin slices. Season with salt and pepper 
and brown or saute on both sides in butter or bacon fat. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

2 cupfuls of cooked chopped potatoes 

1 even tablespoonful of finely-chopped onion 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley- 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Melt the butter, add the onion and fry until a delicate brown. Add 
the seasoned potatoes and stir carefully until they have absorbed all the 
butter. Add the parsley and serve at once. 

RECIPES IN WHICH MASHED POTATOES ARE USED 

Potato Cakes 

2 cupfuls of mashed potato 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk 

Yolk of I egg Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the yolk of the egg light and add to the mashed potato with the 
salt and pepper. Add the cream if necessary only, for if the mashed potato 
be sufficiently moist the cream will make it impossible to handle, ^^"hen 
well mixed form into small, flat, round cakes; saute in hot fat or dripping, 
browning first on one side and then on the other. 

Potato Puffs 

I cupful of mashed potato I egg 

I teaspoonful of butter Yz cupful of cream or milk 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Beat the egg light without separating, and melt the butter. Add to 
the mashed potato with the cream or milk. Season and beat until quite 
light. Fill greased popover pans half full of the mixture and brown in a 
quick oven. Take out carefully with a limber knife or spatula and serve 
at once on a heated dish. 

Potato Souffle 

I cupful of mashed potato i tablespoonful of cream 

I egg Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the yolk of the egg light and add to the mashed potato with the 

cream and seasoning. Beat until very smooth and light, add carefully 

the white of the egg whipped to a stiff, dry froth, turn into a greased 

baking dish and brown in a quick oven. 



26 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Baked Potatoes 

Select smooth potatoes of uniform size ; wash well. Bake until done 
in a hot oven, the length of time depending upon the size and age of the 
potato. New potatoes should be done in from twenty to thirty minutes, 
and for old potatoes the oven should be sufficiently hot to bake in from 
thirty to forty-five minutes. When testing, press them, but do not pierce 
with a fork. Potatoes should not only bake quickly, but should be served 
as soon as they are done, as standing makes them watery. 

French Fried Potatoes 

Pare and wash the potatoes and cut into the desired shape. Drain 
well. Fry in smoking hot fat until well browned and drain on brown 
paper. Season with salt and serve. 

Parisienne potatoes are cut in small balls with a vegetable cutter 
and fried as above. 

Julienne potatoes are cut in narrow strips, and cooked in the same 
manner. 

EGGS 

There is, perhaps, nothing more difficult than the simple process of 
boiling an egg to just the right degree. Eggs for poaching or boiling are 
best when thirty-six hours old. 

For Boiling 

Put the eggs in a saucepan of boiling water, and let them stand where 
they will keep hot, but the water will not boil, for ten minutes. This gives 
an evenly cooked, but soft-boiled egg, and the process simply has to be 
lengthened or shortened to produce a harder or softer degree. 

Poached Eggs 

Fill a shallow pan nearly full of salted, boiling water. As soon as 
the water simmers, not boils, slip in the eggs, one by one, from a cup or 
saucer into which they have previously been broken. Dip the water over 
Ihem with a spoon, that the yolk may be cooked. When the while is firm 
and a film has formed over the yolk, take out each egg with a skimmer. 
Drain well ; trim the edges, place on even rounds of toast, sprinkle with 
5alt, pepper and melted butter, and serve at once. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 27 

Omelets 

The first essential for a good omelet is an omelet pan, wliich should 
be an ordinary-sized, flat, sheet-iron frying pan. After using, it should not 
be washed, but scoured with salt and wiped clean with a cloth. It is 
better to make several small omelets, of three or four eggs each, rather 
than one largo one, for they are more easily handled and cook quicker, so 
are more apt to be tender. 

Break the eggs into a bowl ; beat until broken only. Add to four 
eggs three tablespoonfuls of cream or four teaspoonfuls of warm water and 
one teaspoonful of butter. Put the pan over the fire, and when it is hot 
put in one teaspoonful of butter, tipping the pan that the butter may melt 
and run over it quickly. As soon as the butter is melted turn the eggs into 
the pan, shaking it gently to keep the eggs from cooking too rapidly on the 
bottom. As the lower part cooks, lift with a spatula, allowing the uncooked 
upper portion to run on to the hot pan. When the omelet is of a soft, 
creamy consistency, season with salt and pepper, tip the pan, slip the knife 
under the omelet and carefully roll it to the center. Let it cook a moment 
longer to brown. Should it not brown quickly, add a little butter, letting it 
run under the omelet. Turn out on a hot dish and serve at once or not at all. 

Parsley Omelet. — Add one teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley 
just before the omelet is turned or at the same time the seasoning is added. 

Green Omelet. — Mix one teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley 
with the egg, and only slightly brown the surface of the omelet. 

Ham Omelet. — Add two tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped cooked 
ham well spread over the surface before turning the omelet 

Scrambled Eggs 

4 eggs I tablespoonful of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream Salt and pepper to taste. 

Break the eggs into a bowl, add the cream and beat only enough to 
blend the yolks and whites. Melt the butter in the frying pan, and when 
hot turn in the eggs. Do not stir until they begin to form, and then gently 
lifting them up and over that the flakes may be large and the eggs tender 
and well cooked. As soon as the eggs are sufficiently set, remove from 
the fire and stir until dry. Season and serve. 

Scrambled eggs may be varied in the same way as omelets, adding 
chopped ham, parsley, mushrooms, minced chicken, veal or sweetbreads. 



28 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



MEASURING 

There may be — in fact, evidence proves that there are — good cooks 
who seemingly never measure anything, but by " about so much of this," 
and " a pinch of that," bring about results so delicious that the would-be 
follower at once determines to throw rules to the winds and try the same 
way. Good cooks ahvays measure — one by the cup and spoon, because 
she must; another by the judgment and experience long years of doing the 
same thing over and over again have given her ; and the chances are that, 
unless you .have the rare gift of cooking straight from the gods, you had 
better cling to exact measures and weights if you wish the best result 
every time, instead of once in a while. 

Dry ingredients such as flour, sugar, spices and soda should be sifted 
before measuring, unless the recipe states to the contraty. Many carefully 
written and many-times-tried recipes fail from the lack of this little pre- 
caution, for a tablespoonful of unsifted flour will measure over twice as 
much after that process. The table-, dessert- and teaspoons used for 
measuring should be of the regulation sizes made in silver ; the cup, the 
regulation kitchen cup, holding two gills or one-half of a pint. In 
measuring dry materials, a spoonful means that whatever is measured 
should round as much above the spoon as the spoon rounds underneath. 
When a level or a heaping spoonful is desired, it is so stated in the recipe. 
A spoonful of liquid is the spoon full to the brim ; one-half of a spoonful 
should be measured lengthwise of the spoon, not across. 

A cupful is an even cup, leveled off — not shaken down — and accurate 
portions of the cupful may be found by using the measuring cups divided 
into thirds and fourths. These now come in glass, which makes accuracy 
easy. 

TABLE 

4 saltspoonfuls equal I teaspoonful 

4 teaspoonfuls " i tablespoonful 

2 teaspoon fuls " I dessertspoonful 

2 dessertspoonfuls "I tablespoonful 

8 tablespoonfuls of liquid ... '* I gill 
6 tablespoonfuls of dry material " I gill 

2 gills "I cupful 

2 cupfuls or 4 gills " I pint 

4 cupfuls of liquid "I quart 

4 cupfuls of flour ..... " i quart 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 29 



2 cupfuls of solid butter . . . equal I pound 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar . " I pound 

2^ cupfuls of powdered sugar " l pound 

2 cupfuls of milk or water . . " I pound 



1 tablespoonful of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
2 tablespoonfuls of coflee 

Butter the size of an egg means 2 

A tablespoonful of melted butter is measured after melting 

A tablespoonful of butter, melted, is measured before melting. 



. equals I ounce 
. equal I ounce 
'' I ounce 
tablesijoonfuls or 2 ounces 



TIME-TABLES FOR COOKING 

The ordinary recipe should, and generally does, state the time required 
for croking its ingredients, but an approximate table is occasionally of u>e 
as giving a general idea of the time required for certain things. In any 
case it is approximate only, for things should be cooked until done, and 
many things modify the time stated. The atmosphere, altitude, kind of 
oven or mode of heating employed and the age of certain things, such as 
vegetables, all have to be considered, so that hard and fast rules cannot be 
laid down. Cooking is like the German language — there are plenty of 
rules which must be learned and adhered to, but the exceptions and 
modifications are bewilderingly many, and experience and use are the best 
isachers. 

MEATS 
Roasting or Baking 



Beef, ribs or sirloin, rare per pound 

" " " " well done ... " 

" " '< « boned and rolled " 

Kound of Beef " 

Mutton, leg, rare " 

*' leg, well done " 

" loin, rare ■ • • " 

*' shoulder, stuffed " 

" saddle, rare " 

Lamb, well done " 

A^eal, " 

Pork, *« " 

Turkey " 





TIMK 


lo minutes 


12 


" 


12 


<' 


15 


<( 


lO 


<< 


15 


« 


lO 


(< 


15 


(( 


lO 


<' 


15 


" 


20 


« 


SO 


a 


15 


<( 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Fowls per pound 

Chicken " 

Goose " 

Venison " 

Fillet, hot oven " 

Ducks, tame entire lime 

Ducks, wild, very hot oven .... " 

Partridge " 

Grouse " 

Pigeons *' 

Braised Meats " 

Liver, whole " 

Boiling 

Mutton per pound 

Potted Beef 

Corned Beef " 

Ham " 

Turkey 

Chicken " 

Fowl " 

Tripe " 



i8 

. . . 15 

... 30 
45 to 60 
15 to 30 
30 to 40 
• • • 3 



20 mmutes 
15 " 



o 

30 " 
3 to 4 hours 
2 hours 



. . . 15 mmutes 
30 to 35 " 
30 



1 8 to 20 " 

• 15 " 
... 15 " 

20 to 30 " 

. . . 3 to 5 hours 



Broiling 

Steak, I inch thick 8 to 10 

Steak, I i^ inches thick 101015 

Mutton Chops, French .... 8 

Mutton Chops, English 10 

Spring Chicken 20 

Quail 8 to 10 

Grouse ^5 

Squabs 10 to 15 

Shad, Bluefish, Trout 151025 

Small Fish 5 to 10 



FISH 

Boil 

Halibut and Salmon per pound 

Bluefish and Bass " 

Cod and Haddock " 



I s mmutes 



Bake 

Halibut, salmon, bass, bluefish, shad, etc., for one hour. 
Trout, pickerel, white fish, etc., for one-half hour. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 31 



VEGETABLES 

Young peas, canned tomatoes, green corn, asparagus, spinach, Brus- 
sels sprouts — 15 to 20 minutes. 

Rice, potatoes, macaroni, summer squash, celery, cauliflower, young 
cabbage, peas — 20 to 30 minutes. 

Young turnips, young beets, young carrots, young parsnips, tomatoes, 
baked potatoes, sweet potatoes, onions, cabbage, cauliflower — 30 to 45 
minutes. 

String beans, shell beans, oyster plant, winter squash — 45 to 60 
minutes. 

Winter vegetables — I to 2 hours. Old beets, forever. 

'MISCELLANEOUS 

Bread, baked 45 minutes 

Bread, large loaves 60 " 

Biscuits and small cakes 15 to 20 minutes 

Ginger Bread 20 to 30 '* 

Brown Bread, steameJ 3 hours 

Sponge Cake 45 to 60 minutes 

Plain Cake 301040 '• 

Fruit Cake 2 to 3 hours 

Cookies 10 to 15 minutes 

Thin Cakes, usually 20 minutes 

Baked Puddings 

Such as bread, rice, tapioca, sago and cocoanut, one hour each. 

Boiled Puddings 

Such as Indian pudding, plum pudding and huckleberry pudding, two 
to three hours each. 

Batter Puddings 

Such as cottage, etc., about forty-five minutes. 

In roasting or baking meats, the time should be computed after the first 
twenty minutes ; or after counting so many minutes to each pound add 
twenty or thirty minutes according to size of the roast to allow time for 
the meat to become heated. Meat should be basted every ten minutes 
unless covered in the braising pan. 

In baking fish do not put water in the pan. Lard or lay the fish on 
pieces of salt pork or fat bacon, and lay strips of the same on top. Baste 
with the drippings. 



52 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



LUNCHEON 

The midday meal in the ordinary household is far too often an indif- 
ferent affair, where the cook unblushingly sets before the family dishes that 
try to sink into the oblivion of nothingness for very shame of their appear- 
ance. It is true that many things can be utilized for lunch which would 
be out of place for any other meal, or be actually thrown away as useless ; 
but this does not mean that the cold remains of last night's dinner can or 
should be served without disguise or embellishment. Luncheon is, in 
ma.ny places, peculiarly the woman's meal, and for this very reason suffi- 
cient care and thought should be expended upon it to tempt the delicate 
appetite and give the needed nourishment in an attractive form. 

Luncheon is an informal meal, but none the less should the table 
appointments be fresh and dainty, and everything well served. Relishes 
are nowhere more acceptable than upon the luncheon table, but that which 
deserves the highest consideration for this meal is the utilization of the 
culinary odds and ends. Croquettes, souffles, meats for sandwiches 
and all meat entrees become simplified by means of a Meat Chopper ; 
and the majority of dishes having poetical French names and coming under 
the name of entrees are but different forms of hash or preparing minced 
meat. For the luncheon and tea table, as well as chafing dish use, an 
emergency closet should be had, stored with a few cans of soup, extract 
of beef, canned salmon, shrimps and chicken; chicken and ham patties put 
up in glass, chipped beef, etc. With such materials at hand it takes but a 
short time to transpose a simple but well-cooked home luncheon into a 
more formal and pretentious affair. In the well-ordered household the 
unexpected guest does not often cause consternation, but there are occa- 
sions when the amount cooked is necessarily limited, and confusion 
would arrive with the guest were it not for that comforting store room. 

The use of the chafing dish is always proper at luncheon. Any 
recipes for meats, fish or vegetables rewarmed in the numerous sauces may 
be used with the chafing dish ; omelets, scrambled, poached and fried 
eggs, the various creamed and panned dishes. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 33 

LUNCHEON MENUS 

Spring 

Scalloped Fish Cold Slaw 

Brown Bread and Butter 

Pineapple Pie 

Turkey Soup 

Veal Loaf Lettuce Salad 

Bavarian Cream 

Chicken Croquettes, Bechamel Sauce 

Macedoine Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Cherry Pie 

Summer 

Stuffed Eggs, Cream Sauce 

Tomato Salad 

Fruit Jelly 

Corn Fritters 
Sandwiches 
Citron Preserves Cake 

Bouillon 

Deviled Clams Lettuce Sandwiches 

Chicken a la Terrapin 

Peach Sherbet 



Autumn 

Curry of Veal 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Fruit Wafers 

Tea 

Puree of Clams 

Ham Toast 
Rice Pudding 

Scalloped Fish Sliced Tomatoes 
Raisin Pie 



34 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

"Winter 

Lobster Cutlets, Cream vSauce 

Sandwiches 
Canned Cherries Cookies 

Fried Oysters Chili Sauce 

Deviled Chicken 

Rice Pudding 

Bisque of Oysters 

Molded Ham and Eggs Creamed Potatoes 

Suet Pudding 

SOUPS 

The soups which are served in cups are those commonly used for 
luncheon, although others may be with perfect propriety. Where there are 
school children, especially if the remainder of the lunch be naade up of 
cold dishes, a warm, nourishing soup is almost a necessity. Creamed 
soups, having white stock or milk as a basis, may often be used, utilizing 
the vegetables left over from yesterday's dinner for the flavoring and 
thickening. 

Bouillon 
I )A pounds of lean beef from the round 
I tablespoonful of butter ^ of an onion 

1 stalk of celery 3 cloves 

2 slices of carrot I bay leaf 

2 sprigs of parsley 4 cupfuls of cold water 

White and shell of one egg. 

Chop the beef fine. Slice the onion and carrot and chop the celery. 
Melt the butter, add the onion, and brown. Add the meat, celery, cloves, 
carrot, bay leaf and parsley, and cover with the cold water. • Cover the 
saucepan, and stand on the back part of the stove where the water will 
heat slowly. Simmer for two hours, strain, return to the kettle and 
bring to a boil. Beat the white of the egg with one-half cupful of cold 
water until thoroughly mixed, crush the shell, add to the egg and mix 
with the boiling bouillon. Let boil for one minute, remove the kettle to 
the back of the stove, wait until the bouillon settles, and strain through a 
cheese cloth. Color with caramel, season and serve. 

If a beef soup is desired, strain, but do not clear with the egg as 
directed for the bouillon. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 35 

Turkey Soup 

I tablespoonful of butter ^ I cupful of cream 

I slice of onion 3 tablespoon fuls of rice 

3 stalks of celery Salt and pepper to taste. 

Chop the onion, and brown in butter. Add the turkey carcase and any 
dressing left over, cover with one quart of cold water and simmer for two 
hours. Strain, return the broth to the kettle. Chop whatever meat can be 
taken from the turkey bones very fine, and add to the broth with the rice 
and celery also chopped fine. Cook for one-half of an hour or until the 
rice and celery are tender. Add the cream, season and serve. 

Puree of Clams 

25 clams I cupful of cold water 

I tablespoonful of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of Hour 

I pint of cream ^/^ of a cupful of bread crumbs 

Pepper to taste. 

Drain the clams with the water, saving all the liquor. Put the liquor 
in a saucepan over the fire, when it comes to a boil, skim. Chop the 
clams fine, add them to the liquor, let boil again and skim. Rub the but- 
ter and fiour together until smooth and add to the broth with the bread 
crumbs ; stir and cook until it thickens. Press through a sieve, return to 
the kettle and when heated add the cream previously scalded in a farina 
boiler. Season and serve at once. Do not let the soup stand on the stove 
after adding the cream, as it is apt to curdle, and be careful in seasoning as 
the clams are salty. 

Bisque of Oysters 

I pint of oysters i pint of milk 

I tablespoonful of butter I tablespoonful of flour 

Yolk of one egg Salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain the oysters free from their liquor, adding sufficient cold water 
to make one cup of liquid. Chop half the oysters fine. Bring the oyster 
liquor to a boil, skim, add the chopped oysters and simmer ten minutes. 

Scald the milk ; rub the butter and flour together until smooth, add to 
the milk and stir until it thickens. Add the whole oysters to the oyster 
liquor, and as soon as their edges curl remove all from the fire. Add the 
beaten yolk of the egg to the milk, take at once from the fire and mix with 
the. oysters and their liquor. Season and serve at once. 



30 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

FISH 

All kinds of shell fish at the times of year they are in season are used 
for luncheon. The remnants of baked, boiled and fried fish may be 
recooked in various appetizing ways, and fish salads are usually most 
acceptable. 

Fried Oysters 

vSelect the best large oysters and drain thoroughly. This is best done 
by pouring cold water over them, as the oyster liquor being thick will 
adhere. Carefully remove all bits of shell that may be clinging to the 
oysters and lay the oysters on a soft cloth to dry. Cover first with seasoned 
bread crumbs, allow them to dry, and recover, dipping in egg and then in 
bread crumbs. \Vhen ready, fry in deep, smoking hot fat. 

Oyster Croquettes 

25 oysters Yolk of i egg 

1 tablespoonful of butter I tablespoonfiil of chopped parsley 
^ teaspoonful of celery extract }( cupful of cream 

j^ cupful cf milk 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 
Put the oysters with their liquor in a saucepan over the fire. Cook 
for five minutes, take from the fire and drain thoroughly. Chop very fine. 
Strain one half cupful of the oyster liquor, add to it the cream and milk 
and put in a farina boiler. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 
add to the liquid in the farina boiler with the chopped oysters. Stir until 
it thickens, add the yolk of the egg and the parsley. Mix well, take from 
the fire, season and turn out to cool. When cold, form into cork-shaped 
croquettes, cover with egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. 

Deviled Clams 

25 clams Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. 
Drain the clams with one-half cupful of cold water, saving all the 
liquor. Add the clams to the liquor, put in a saucepan over the fire and 
let it come to a boil. Drain again and add two cupfuls of the juice. Chop 
the clams fine; rub the butter and flour together until smooth, add to the 
liquor and stir until it thickens. Take from the fire, add the beaten yolks 
of the eggs, the clams and the parsley. Mix well and season. Fill shells 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 37 

with the mixture, cover with bread crumbs greased in melted butter, and 

Ijrown in a hot oven. 

Clam Fritters 
2 dozen clams 2 eggs 

% cupful of clam liquor I cupful of flour 

I lablespoonful of lemon juice Salt and pepper to taste. 

Beat the eggs light without separating. Scald the clams in their own 
liquor, drain and chop fine. Skim the liquor, add the eggs, lemon juice 
and the flour gradually. Mix well, add the clams, season and fry by 
spoonfuls in hot fat. 

Lobster Cutlets 

2 cupfuls of boiled lobster meat chopped fine 

1 cupful of milk or cream Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Dash of paprica 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the milk. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, add 
to the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Add the yolks of the eggs 
beaten light, take from the fire and mix gently with lobster meat. Season 
with the salt, pepper and parsley. Onion and celery extract may be used 
if liked. Cool, form into cutlets, cover with egg and bread crumbs and 
fry in smoking-hot fat. 

Creamed Lobster 

2 cupfuls of chopped boiled lobster meat 
2 cupfuls of cream or milk 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter without browning, add the flour, stir until smooth. 
Add the cream and stir until it thickens. Take from the fire, add the 
lobster meat and season. Turn into the farina boiler and serve when hot. 

For cunied lobster, add one teaspoonful of curry powder to sauce 
given above. 

Deviled Crabs 

The chopped meat from 12 crabs 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I tablespoonful of butter I tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

I cupful of cream or milk I teaspoonful of salt 

Yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs Cayenne pepper to taste. 

Scald the cream. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, add 
to the scalded cream and stir until it thickens. Take from the fire, add 



38 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

the yolks of the eggs mashed fine, the parsley, salt and pepper. Mix 
well; add the crab meat carefully, for if stirred it makes the mixture 
stringy and pasty. Fill the cleaned crab shells, dip the whole thing, shell 
and all, in egg, roll in bread crumbs and fry, like croquettes, in smoking 
hot fat. 

Scalloped Fish 
2 cupfuls of cooked fish 2 cupfuls of cream sauce 

y^, cupful of mashed potato 2 hard-boiled eggs 

I tablespoonful of melted butter Salt and pepper to taste. 

Flake the fish, mix with the potato with a fork, season, and beat until 
light. Rub the yolks of the eggs smooth with the melted butter, add to 
the cream sauce, with the whites pressed through a sieve. Fill a greased 
baking-dish with alternate layers of fish and sauce. Cover the top with 
greased bread crumbs and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

For Fish Cutlets follow the recipe for lobster cutlets. 

Fish may be scalloped in shells, following the recipe for deviled crabs, 
but using scallop shells in the place of crab shells. 

Creamed Fish is fish rewarmed in a cream sauce. 

Curried Fish is fish rewarmed in a curry sauce. 



MEATS 

Croquettes 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked meat 
I cupful of milk 2 tablespoon fuls of chopped parsley 

I tablespoonful of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

Seasonings to taste. 

Scald the milk. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, add 
to the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Mix the parsley and other 
seasonings with the meat, add to the thickened milk and mix thoroughly. 
Cool, form into cone-shaped croquettes, cover with egg and bread crumbs, 
and fry in smoking hot fat. 

Cold beef, veal, mutton, chicken and turkey are all used for croquettes, 
the seasonings varying with the meats. Beef and mutton should be more 
highly seasoned, using onion extract, herbs, curry, paprica, etc., to taste. 
Veal, chicken and turkey may have celery extract, lemon juice, chopped 
mushrooms, truffles and sweetbreads mixed with them. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 39 



Lamb Croquettes 

2 cupfuls of finely chopped cooked lamb 2 tablespoonfids of flour 

I cupful of boiled ripe I cupful of cream 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley I tablespoonful of butter 

I tablespoonful of lemon juice Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the milk. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth, add 
to the scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Mix the meat, rice, parsley 
and seasoning well together. Mix with the thickened milk and cool. 
When cool form into cone-shaped croquettes, cover with egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

Souffles 

Veal, lamb, chicken and turkey are the meats usually preferred for 
souflles. Beef and mutton make better scallops. 
2 cupfuls of chopped, cooked meat 3 eggs 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I cupful of milk l cupful of cream 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Seasonings to taste. 

Melt the butter without browning, add the flour; stir until smooth. 
Add the cream and milk ; stir until it thickens. Add the chicken to the 
sauce and, when it is thoroughly heated, add the beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Take from the fire and cool. When ready to use, beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff, dry froth; mix them gently with the meat and sauce. Turn 
into a greased baking dish and bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED MEAT 

Beef 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked beef 
2 cupfuls of tomato sauce. 

Grease a baking dish. Fill with alternate layers of the beef, seasoned 
to taste, and the tomato sauce. Cover the top with greased bread crumbs 
and bake fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

Veal 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped, cooked veal 
2 cupfuls of brown mushroom sauce. 

Follow the directions given for scalloped beef. 



40 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Chicken or Turkey- 
Use in the same proportions as given above, with a white instead of a 
brown mushroom sauce. If desired, one-half cupful of bread crumbs 
may be added to any of the above recipes, using the crumbs alternately 
with the sauce and meat. Bechamel, curry, plain white or brown sauces, 
with the addition of catsup to the latter, may be used to vary the scallops. 

Boudins 

2 cupfuls of finely-chopped cooked meat 
I tablespoonful of butter I teaspoonful of salt 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley Whites of 3 eggs 

y^ cupful of cream ^ teaspoonful of pepper. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth. Melt the butter, add 
to the meat, with the parsley, salt and pepper. Add the cream by degrees, 
mashing the meat as fine as possible, and, when well mixed, add carefully 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Fill greased, individual souffle tins two- 
thirds full, place them in a baking pan half filled with boiling water, and 
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

CURRIES 

Beef and Mutton 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked beef or mutton 

1 very small onion I teaspoonful of curry powder 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 tablespoonfuis of butter 

2 cupfuls of stock I teaspoonful of lemon juice 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Chop the onion fine and brown in the butter with the curry powder. 
Add the flour, stir until smooth and brown. Add the stock and the meat, 
and when the sauce has sufficiently thickened, season and serve. One 
cupful of meat and one of vegetables may be used, lima beans or peas 
giving the best flavor. 

Curry of Lamb 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked lamb J2 teaspoonful of chopped mint 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 cupfuls of stock I teaspoonful of curry powder 

I tablespoonful of orange juice Salt and pepper to taste. 

Brown the butter, add the curry powder, meat and mint, and cook ten 
minutes, or until the meat is well heated and seasoned. Add the flour, 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 41 

Stir until brown. Add the stock and stir until the sauce has thickened. 
Season and serve in a rice border. In place of a rice border, one cupful 
of boiled rice and one of meat may be used, following the directions given 
above. 

Veal Of Chicken Curry 

2 cupfuls of chopped cooked chicken or veal 
2 cupfuls of wliite sauce j4 cupful of boiled rice 

I teaspoonful of curry powder Salt and pepper to taste. 

Put the curry in the butter when melting the latter for the sauce. Add 
the meat and rice when the liquid is added and serve when thickened, 
seasoned and well heated. 

Deviled Chicken 

2 cupfuls of finely chopped cooked chicken 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs 
Yi cupful of cream 2 hard-boiled eggs 

3 drops of onion extract 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the bread crumbs, chicken and cream ; stir until 
the mixture is heated. Add the egg, the yolks and whites pressed through 
a sieve, the parsley and seasoning. Mix well ; take from the fire, put in 
shells or individual souffle dishes, cover with greased bread crumbs, and 
brown in a quick oven. Curry powder, paprica, and other seasonings may 
be added at will. 

Chicken a la Terrapin 

I pint of finely-chopped cooked chicken 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter I tablespoonful of flour 

3 hard-boiled eggs I cupful of cream 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, stir until blended ; add the chicken 
and the cream. Stand over hot water or in the farina boiler, and when the 
mixture is thoroughly heated add the yolks of the eggs put through a press 
and rubbed smooth with a little of the cream. Add the whites chopped 
fine, and let the mixture come to boiling point. Season and serve. 

Molded Ham and Eggs 
Chop one cupful of cold boiled ham fine. Mix with it one-half 
cupful of cream sauce and the white of one egg beaten frothy only, not 



42 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

light and dry. Mix well; line greased individual timbale molds with the 
mixture, break a raw egg carefully in the centre of each one and bake for 
ten minutes in a moderately quick oven. If baked in tin molds it will be 
necessary to turn out before serving, but this is so difficult to do without 
breaking the eggs it is often wiser to use shirred egg or the china souffle 
dishes, in which they may be served. If turned out, serve with sauce. 

Ham Canapes 

1 cupful of chopped boiled ham ^/^ cupful of cream 

2 tablespoon fuls of Parmesan cheese Paprica to taste. 

Cut bread into slices one-fourth of an inch thick, and with a French 
cutter into circles. Fry to a delicate brown in smoking hot, deep fat. 

Pound the ham to a paste, adding the cream as needed. Season with 
the paprica or cayenne pepper if preferred. Spread the mixture on the 
fried bread, sprinkle the cheese over the top, and brown in a hot oven. 

Ham Relish 

1 cupful of cold boiled ham, chopped fine 

y^ cupful of cream 3 hard-boiled eggs 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the cream. Rub the yolks of two eggs smooth with a little of 
the cream ; add to the cream in the farina boiler with the ham. Press 
the whites of the two eggs through a sieve, add to the mixture, and when 
thoroughly heated put on a heated dish. Slice the remaining egg over the 
ham and serve. 

Ham Toast 

I cupful of cold boiled ham, chopped fine 
Yolk of I Qgg y^ cupful of cream 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the cream, add the beaten yolks, stir until it thickens. Add the 
ham, and when heated, season and serve on toast. 

Veal Loaf, 

3 pounds of veal y^ pound of ham 

3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls of cream 

]{. cupful of butter I teaspoonful of onion juice 

1 teaspoonful of black pepper ^ teaspoonful of allspice 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt 2 teaspoonfuls of summer savory 

y^ cupful of fine bread or cracker crumbs. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 43 

Chop the veal and ham very fine. Beat the eggs, without separating, 
itntil light, and melt the butter. Mix the veal, ham, crumbs and seasonings 
well together ; add the eggs, and when well mixed the cream and melted 
butter. Mix throroughly. Press into a mold previously wet with cold 
water, and turn out carefully on to a flat baking pan. Bake for two hours 
in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with melted butter. 

Scalloped Eggs 

6 hard-boiled eggs I cupful of cracker crumbs 

2 cupfuls of cream sauce ^ cupful of butter 

I cupful of finely-chopped chicken, veal or ham. 

Melt the butter, add the cracker crumbs and stir until heated. Mash 
the yolks of the eggs and chop the whites ; mix with a cream sauce. 
Put alternate layers of crumbs, meat and eggs in a greased baking dish 
until all are used, having the last layer of crumbs. Bake fifteen minutes 
in a moderately hot oven. 

Stuffed Eggs 
For 6 hard-boiled eggs take 

1 cupful of finely chopped cooked meat 
I tablespoonful of butter, melted 
)^ cupful of cream 
Seasoning to taste. 

Cut the eggs in halves Carefully take out the yolks, put them 
through a press and mix to a smooth paste with the melted butter. Add 
the meat and the seasoning; mix with the cream gradually, as it may not 
all be needed. When the mixture is of the proper consistency to stuff the 
eggs, season, fill each half carefully and make it even on top. Rub a 
little raw white of egg over the pieces and press them together. Roll in 
egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve with a cream 
sauce. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

6 tomatoes 

12 mushrooms 

I tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

1 tablespuonful of melted butter 

2 tablespoonfulsof bread-crumbs 

y^ cupful of finely-chopped cooked chicken 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

The tomatoes should be good-sized, fully ripe and solid. Remove a 



44 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

small circular piece from the top of each, and take out the seeds carefully 
so as nut to spoil the shape or firmness of the tomatoes. Cut the mush- 
rooms in pieces with a silver knife, mix with the chopped chicken, add the 
other ingredients, mix well and fill the tomatoes. Bake thirty minutes in 
a moderate oven, basting often with melted butter. 

Com Fritters 

I cupful of sweet corn Yolks of 2 eggs 

I cupful of milk ){ cupful of flour 

I teaspoonful of baking powder )4 teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light ; add to the corn with the milk, 
flour and salt. Beat until light and smooth ; add the whites, beaten to a 
siifi", dry froth, and the baking powder. Mix lightly and quickly; fry on 
a hot griddle or in the chafing-dish. 

SAUCES 

The majority of sauces are easily made and greatly improve the dishes 
they accompany. With made-over dishes they are sometimes indis- 
pensable, as some re-cooked meats might be tasteless without this palatable 
addition. 

The superiority of French sauces is due to the strong, finely-flavored, 
white stock used in their preparation. Many things take the place of this 
in the ordinary English sauces, but none fill it. The basis of mo?t sauces 
is a roux made of butter and flour cooked together; for white sauces 
without browning, for brown sauces browning both butter and flour before 
adding the liquid to be used. If certain simple directions be always 
adhered to, a delicious sauce may be served with little trouble, but 
nothing AN ill show lack of pains and following the rule quicker than a 
meat sauce. The proportions always remain the same, no matter what 
kind or amount cf sauce is to be made — a tablespoonful of butter and a 
tablespoonful of flour to every cup of liquid. For a white sauce the 
butter is melted without browning, the flour added and cooked until 
blended without browning. For a brown sauce the butter is melted and, 
browned, the flour added and thoroughly browned before the liquid is 
added. Never sprinkle in the flour; put it all in at once ; stir with the 
flat of a i^poon until blended and \\ithout lumps, and add the liquid at 
once — not by degrees. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 45 

"White Sauce 

I tablespoonful of butter I tablespoonful of flour 

1 cupful of milk or white stock Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter without browning ; add the flour, stir until it is 
blended and smooth. Add the liquid, stir until it thickens, season and 
serve. 

This is the basis for a large quantity of sauces which are used with 
r.sh, boiled fowl, roast turkey and chicken, veal and chicken croquettes, 
sweetbreads, many vegetables and eggs in various forms. 

"White Sauce for Fish 

I tablespoonful of butter I tablespoonful of flour 

I cupful of white stock Yolk of I egg 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and stir until smooth. Add the stock, 
stir until it thickens ; take from the fire and stir in the yolk of the egg. If 
added at once the heat of the sauce is sufficient to cook the egg, and 
if allowed to remain over the fire the sauce may separate. Season and 
serve at once. 

Egg Sauce. — To the above add two hard boiled eggs cut in slices 
and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Oyster Sauce 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 table spoonfuls of flour 
I cupful of milk I pint of oysters 

Yi teaspoonful of celery extract Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cook the oysters in their own liquor until the edges curl. Drain, 
saving one cupful of the oyster liquor. Add this to the milk and proceed 
OS directed for the white sauce, adding the oysters as soon as the sauce 
thickens. Season and serve at once. If the oysters cook too long they 
will be tough, and the sauce should not stand before serving. 

Bechamel Sauce 

1 tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

^ cupful of white stock y^ cupful of cream 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Proceed as directed for the white sauce. 



46 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Mushroom Sauce 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoon ful of flour 

^ cupful of cream Y^ cupful of mushroom liquor 

% can of mushrooms Salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the mushrooms in half with a silver knife. Proceed as directed 
for the white sauce, adding the mushrooms just as the sauce begins to 
thicken. They should cook only long enough to be heated through and 
the sauce be served at once. 

Brown Sauce 

I tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful flour 

I cupful of stock or water Salt and pepper to taste. 

Melt the butter and brown ; add the flour, stir until smooth and thor- 
oughly browned. Add the stock, stir until it thickens, season and serve. 

It takes much longer to make a brown than a white sauce, as brown- 
ing flour hardens the starch grains so they do not readily expand and 
thicken the sauce. 

From this sauce are made many, adding different flavorings, such as 
catsup, curry powder, Worcestershire sauce, etc. Brown sauce and its 
variations are served with dark-colored meats, game, ham, cutlets, etc. 

Mushroom Sauce. — To the quantity of brown sauce given above 
add one-half can of mushrooms cut in halves with a silver knife. Cook 
only long enough to heat through, as directed for the white mushroom sauce. 

Currant Jelly Sauce. — To the quantity of brown sauce given 
above, add one-half cupful of melted currant jelly. 

Curry Sauce. — To the quantity of brown sauce given above, add 
one teaspoonful of curry powder. 

SALADS 

Perhaps there is no dish which adds more to the luncheon or tea than 
a nicely prepared salad. Nearly all meats, vegetables and fruits may be 
served as salads, but the kinds of dressing are limited. Not only does the 
meat, vegetable or fruit to be used determine the mode of dressing, but the 
part the salad is to play in the meal has much to do with it. If the salad 
be the mainstay at luncheon served with cold meats and pastty only, it 
must be substantial and satisfying ; but if it be but an accessory it should be 
simple and refreshing. French dressing is usually served with green 
vegetables, and mayonnaise with meat and fish salads. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 47 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Before beginning the dressing, chill the plate, eggs and oil, even the 
fork. Put the yolks of two eggs, carefully freed from the whites, in a 
soup-plate ; add one-half of a teaspoonful of salt r.nd stir with a silver 
fork until the yolks are well broken and mixed; add the oil, drop by 
drop, at first, being careful to always stir in the same direction, adding a 
drop of vinegar when needed, that is, when the oil and eggs show globules 
of oil, or, to use the common expression, the emulsion looks oily. As the 
mixture becomes thick, the oil may be added faster, always stirring, not beat- 
ing, and adding only acid enough to keep the dressing from separating. 
Two eggs will easily take a pint of oil. Season with salt and red pepper^ 
and lemon juice, if desired or necessary. When finished, the dressing 
should be thick and smooth and a perfect mayonnaise should not be 
strongly acid, as that destroys the flavor of the oil. 

French Dressing 
Use two-thirds oil to one-third vinegar. For every tablespoonful of 
vinegar and three of oil take one-half of a teaspoonful of salt and one- 
fourth of a teaspoonful of black or white pepper. Mix the salt and pep- 
per with the oil and add the vinegar slowly, stirring all the while, until it 
becomes white and a little thickened. The dressing must be used or 
served at once or it will separate. 

To Marinate is to cover with French dressing and allow to stand two 
or three hours. When ready to serve, the dressing not absorbed should be 
drained from the meat or vegetable marinated, and the salad mixed with the 
dressing to be used. 

Boiled Dressing 
2 eggs I cupful of vinegar 

I teaspoonful of salt ^ teaspoonful of pepper 

^ cupful of butter ^ teaspoonful of sugar. 

Beat the eggs light without separating, add the vinegar, salt, pepper, 
sugar and butter melted. Mix well and put over hot water. Stir 
constantly until the dressing is thickened ; cool and serve. If too thick, 
thin with cream or olive oil, if desired. 

Chicken Salad 

Chop cold, cooked chicken meat into even sized pieces, not too small. 
Select the tender stalks of celery, as the outer tough pieces will spoil the 



48 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



salad. Wash, scrape and chop in small pieces. For every two cupfuls of 
chicken meat take one cupful of celery. Marinate the chicken and keep 
in a cool place until ready to serve. Mix with the celery. For every 
quart of salad take one cupful of thick mayonnaise dressing, mix gently 
with the salad, leaving sufficient to use as a garnish with lettuce leaves or 
celery tops. Serve as soon as possible after putting together. 

Lobster Salad 

Cut the boiled lobster meat into as even pieces as possible. Marinate 
and put in a cool place until wanted. When ready to serve, mix with 
shredded lettuce leaves and mayonnaise dressing in the proportion of 
one-half cupful of dressing to every pint of salad. Serve on curly 
lettuce leaves, garnished with the dressing and the powdered coral of the 
lobster if desired. Fish salads of any description should be served at 
once after mixing. 

Lettuce Salad 

Use only crisp, tender leaves; break them apart, as cutting toughens 
'the leaves, and wash each leaf separately. Drain and keep in a cool 
place until ready to use. Green salads of this description are better when 
dressed on the table, for, if left standing covered with the dressing they 
quickly wither. Make the French dressing, to which may be added at 
will finely-chopped parsley, tarragon, chives or olives. Pour the dressing 
over the leaves, toss lightly together and serve. If a flavor of onion is 
desired, a few drops of onion extract added to the dressing is better than 
garlic or rubbing the dish with onion. Tarragon vinegar has a more deli- 
cate flavor than the leaves, and is usually desirable to use in either French 
or mayonnaise dressing. When lettuce is to be mixed with other things 
it should be shredded or pulled apart, not cut or chopped. Lettuce for 
salad may be mixed with water cress, celery or sorrel. Water cress, 
endive, corn and chicory salad are prepared in the same manner as the 
lettuce. 

Macedoine Salad 

This is a mixed vegetable salad and while better if the vegetables are 
boiled especially for it, can be made of left-overs. Peas, string beans, 
cauliflower, beets, celery, asparagus tips, Carrots, turnips and potatoes, all, 
or as many as are convenient and desired, maybe used. The string beans 
and celery should be cut in small pieces ; the cauliflower separated into 



THE ENTERPRISIN G HOUSEKEEP ER 49 

flowerettes; the beets, carrots, turnips and potatoes cut with a fancy vege- 
table cutter. Mix lightly, being careful not to break the vegetables. Cover 
with a French dressing, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Cold Slaw- 
Select a firm cabbage and shred very fine. Mix with a boiled dress- 
ing while the latter is hot and put away to cool. Serve when cold. Or 
the cabbage may be shredded and mixed with French dressing. Cabbage 
and water-cress mixed make a very nice salad. 

SANDWICHES 

The name of sandwich brings to mind so many horrors of the rail- 
road restaurant that the use of them on the home table is by no means 
general. When well made and attractively served, however, they are not 
To be despised, and may often be the most acceptable part of a cold 

luncheon. 

They may be made of while, whole wheat, Graham or brown bread 
with any kind of meat, fish, salad, eggs, some vegetables, jams or chopped 
nuts, and spread with butter or mayonnaise dressing. The meat used in 
sandwiches should be chopped fine, not cut in slices, first for convenience 
in eating and serving, and secondly because in this form only is it possible 
to properly season the sandwich. Fish should be flaked very fine with a 
fork, and mixed to a paste with the seasonings. 

The bread should not be too fresh to cut well, nor will actually stale 
bread make good sandwiches. It is best when about a day old, should be 
of fine grain and be trimmed to good shape before the sandwiches are cut. 

The crusts should not be left on, but removed, dried and put through 
the chopper for crumbs. The butter must be absolutely fresh and good, 
for in softening, that the bread may be properly spread, any foreign flavor 
or odor will be brought out. For meat, fish, salad and egg sandwiches the 
bread should be cut in squares, oblongs or triangles; for jam and nut 
sandwiches it is usually cut round. 

Meat Sandwiches 
It is usually better to spread the bread with butter before cutting off 
each slice. This is not necessary when mayonnaise dressing is used. 



50 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Chop the meat fine, season to taste with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 
mustard if desired, onion or celery extract, or any of the various season- 
ings. Moisten, if necessary, with stock or cream or mix with a small 
quantity of mayonnaise dressing. Spread the sandwiches, put together 
and serve. 

The white meat of chicken or turkey, or veal, after being chopped, 
may be pounded to a paste and mixed with equal quantities of the yolks 
of hard-boiled eggs, mixed smooth with cream or melted butter. Season 
to taste. 

Deviled Ham Sandwiches 

I cupful of cold boiled ham Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs 

I teaspoonful of lemon juice ^ teaspoonful of mustard 

3 tablespoonsfuls of melted butter. 

Chop the ham fine. Rub the yolks of the eggs smooth with the but- 
ter, mix with the ham, mustard and lemon juice, and sea; on to taste. 
Spread on thin slices of bread. Fold together or roll. 

Fish Sandwiches 

Fresh fish should be flaked fine, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
chopped pickle, lemon juice, celery or onion extract, and mixed with 
mayonnaise dressing, or moistened with a sauce. 

Anchovies, sardines or salt fish are better pounded to a paste and 
moistened with lemon juice. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop the whites of the hard-boiled eggs very fine. Mix the yolks 
smooth with mayonnaise dressing, add the whites, and spread on the bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Grate the cheese fine. Rub it to a paste with melted butter, season 
with salt and pepper; and spread on the sandwiches. 

Sweet and Nut Sandwiches 

These may be made with marmalades, jams or jellies, anything which 
will spread without running. Boston brown bread is generally used for 
nut sandwiches. Chop the nuts very fine or pound them to a paste, and 
spread on thin slices of bread. Lemon juice or extract flavorings may be 
used if desired. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



51 



The Enterprise Cherry Stoner 




No. I, Japanned, . 65 cents 
No. 2, ^^-^Tinned-^^^g 75 cents 

We recommend our Cheny 
Stoner particularly to tho.e 
desiring rapid work. It can 
be adjusted by thumb screws 
to adapt it to the different 
sizes of cherry stones. 



The New 
Cherry Stoner 

J8^-Tinned°^©a 

No. 12, $i.oo 

Our new Stoner is in- 
tended for stoning Cherries 
with the least possible cutting 
or disfiguring. Every house- 
wife will appreciate this for 
preserving purposes. 

Directions sent with each machine 




52 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

DESSERTS 

PASTRY 

Puff Paste 

^ pound of butter ^ pound of flour 

J^ cupful of ice water l teaspoonful of salt 

^ of the white of I egg J^ teaspoonful of sugar. 

The flour should be weighed after sifting. Scald the bowl with hot 
soap-suds, rinse and then half fill with ice water. Bathe the hands in as 
hot soap-suds as possible, rinse in cold water, but do not dry. This is 
done to prevent the butter from sticking to either the bowl or the hands. 
Wash the butter thoroughly in the water in the bowl until you have washed 
out all the salt. This may be told by the elasticity of the butter. When 
you begin it will crumble, but gradually cling together more and more. 
When done, wrap the butter round a piece of ice and leave it in the water 
until you are ready to use it. Take a medium-sized platter, put about two- 
thirds of the flour on it, and make a well in the center of the flour, keep- 
ing the sides even and compact. In this well put a lump of the washed 
butter the size of an egg, the salt, sugar and the white of the egg. Pour 
on a little of the water and begin to work with the ends of the fingers from 
the center toward the edges, being careful not to break the sides of the 
well. Pour in the water gradually, not using the entire amount given if 
not necessary. This will depend greatly upon the kind of pastry flour used, 
the best taking the least water. When done it should be like soft bread 
dough. Knead first on the platter, then on the board until smooth and 
velvety ; then put aside to get thoroughly cold. Divide it into two equal 
portions and roll them out to the same size and shape ; flour one thickly 
with some of the remaining flour, dry the butter on a piece of cheese cloth, 
break it in pieces and put it on the floured paste. Sprinkle flour on the 
butter,. place the other side of the paste on top and gently pat with the 
roller to flatten down into shape. Now, the paste can be rolled only from 
you, never sidewise. This point should be carefully remembered, and no 
more flour should be used than you have weighed. Roll it out as thin as 
possible without the butter coming through ; then fold. First fold in the 
edges, then the ends, and turn the paste so that the fold runs to and from 
you ; roll and fold again, and put away to cool. Do this eight times, put- 
ting it away to cool whenever the paste is soft or the butter seems to be 
coming through. Stand it away over night and it is ready for use. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 53 

Plain Paste 

1% cupfuls of flour % cupful of butter 

% cupful of cottolene % cupful of water 

I teaspoonful of salt. 
Add the salt to the flour and sift. Have everything as cold as possi- 
ble. Cut the butter and the cottolene into the flour with a knife, trying not 
to chop it too fine. When the shortening is well mixed with the flour begin 
to add the water gradually, mixing the paste with a knife. Do not let it 
become too moist, as it should be turned out on the board to roll when it 
is scarcely sticking together. Turn out on the board, and roll lightly, roll- 
ing and folding as directed for the puff paste, until it is in shape to former 
roll in a sheet. The paste may be used at once, but will be more flaky if 
left until very cold before using for a pie. When ready to use, roll as thin 
as possible, and when put on the tin lift lightly to allow the air to escape 
from underneath. Cut the edges with a sharp knife, pointed away from 
the plate to allow for shrinkage. If the knife be dull, the cutting will fasten 
the edges together and the paste will not be so light. The quantities given 
above are the old-fashioned amounts of one-third shortening to two-thirds 
flour, and moisture enough to make the paste. The mixing may be done 
without the rolling and folding. 

Pineapple Pie 

I cupful of powdered sugar 2 eggs 

y^ cupful of butter i small pineapple. 

Grate the pineapple. Beat the butter and sugar together until creamy, 
add the beaten yolks of the eggs and the pineapple. When well mixed, 
add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff, dry froth, mix lightly and turn 
into the pie plate. Bake with an under crust only. 

Cocoanut Pie 

2 cupfuls of milk 2 e^gs 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch 

14: cupful of cream >^ of a cocoanut 

}4. teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Grate the cocoanut. Scald the milk ; beat the yolks of the eggs light 
with the sugar, add the corn starch and mix with the scalded milk. Cook 
and stir until it thickens, take from the fire, add the cream and the cocoa- 
nut and put away until cool. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff", dry 



54 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



froth, add to the custard with the vanilla. Bake the bottom crust, brush 
it over with the white of egg, put in the custard and brown in a quick oven. 
Let the pie cool before serving. 

Raisin Pie 
I lemon I egg 

I cupful of sugar I tablespoonful of flour 

^ cupful of raisins. 
Select large, soft raisins, and seed. Cover with one cupful of cold 
water and soak two hours. Beat the egg until light with the sugar, add 
the juice and grated rind of the lemon and mix with the flour. Add the 
raisins and water in which they have been soaking, and cook unfil the 
mixture thickens. Bake in two crusts. 

Cherry Pie 

I quart of cherries Ij4. cupfuls of sugar 

I tablespoonful of flour. 
Stone the cherries, saving all the juice. Add the sugar and the flour 
and stir until well mixed. Fill the pie plate, lined with pastry, cover wiih 
the upper crust and bake. When canned cherries r.re used, take only 
half the juice to the same amount of cherries, sugar and flour. 



MINCE-MEAT 

2 pounds of lean beef i pound of suet 

1 quart of apples, measured after chopping 

3 cupfuls of raisins I cupful of currants 

yi pound of citron y^ cupful of candied fruit 

ij( cupful of candied orange peel ]^ cupful of candied lemon peel 

y^ cupful of molasses I cupful of sugar 

Grated rind and juice of I lemon Grated rind and juice of I orange 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt I teaspoonful of cinnamon 
^2 teaspoonful of cloves j4, teaspooriful of allspice 
yi cupful of brandy j4. cupful of sherry 

I cupful of cider. 
Chop the beef and suet very fine, and mix. Add the chopped 
apples. Seed the raisins, chop the candied fruit, candied lemon and 
orange peel, and slice the citron. Add to the meat and suet with the 
currants, spices and salt. Mix and add the sugar, molasses, lemon and 
orange juice; when well mixed add the brandy, sherry and cider. It 
should stand several days before using to ripen or blend, and .'•hould keep 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



55 



all winter. Two cupfuls of hard cider may be used in place of the brandy 
and sherry, and the quantities of beef, suet and apples may be doubled to 
the amount of fruit given if desired. If this is done, be careful to add 
sufficient moistening, and remember that the liquor is added to keep the 
mince-meat, not especially for flavoring, as the quantity is so small that this 
is disseminated in cooking. 

The —^ and j^ Y 

Enterprise Kaisin Grape oecdet 



Removes 
every seed 
without 
waste. 

A child 
can 
operate it. 




Seeding 
raisins 
a pleasure 
since the 
introduction 
of this 
marvellous 
little device. 



J^-TINNED-®81 

No. 36 — Size for families, $t.00 

Will seed a pound in five minutes 

No. 38 — Size for bakers, hotels, etc., $2.50 

Will seed a pound in one minute 

Directions sent with each machine 



After fastening the Seeder to the table, set the rubber roller moderately 
tight against the toothed cylinder by means of the thumb screw (marked A). 
Be careful to see that the roller turns freely on its shaft. 



56 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Wet the raisins and feed into the hopper, turning the crank at the same 
time. Remember the hopper must not be filled, but the raisins sprinkled 
in only so fast as the roller will grasp them, which means only two or three 
at a time. 

If too much pulp comes with the seeds the rubber roller is not tight 
enough against the cylinder. 

The surface of the roller should be kept clean and free from sugar, 
in order that the seeds may be extracted wiihout wasting the pulp of the 
raisin. 

When the crank sticks or "turns hard" while in use, wash the 
machine by loosening the thumb screw and holding the Seeder under a 
stream of hot water. It is an accumulation of sugar from the raisins which 
causes this sticking and the hot water dissolves and washes it away. 

After using, clean in the same manner; loosen the thumbscrew a.nd 
hold the machine under a stream of hot water and turn the crank backward 
and forward. Wipe and d)-y thoroughly before putting away. Too much 
emphasis cannot be laid upon this point with all household utensils and 
machinery. After using and cleaning, utensils must be thoroughly 
dried. 

If, after not having used the Seeder for a few days, the crank turns 
hard or will not turn at all, wash as above, as the trouble is caused by the 
sugar from the raisins sticking to the working parts. 



PUDDINGS 

English Plum Podding 

I pound of flour l pound of raisins 

J pound of currants i pound suet, chopped very fine 

I pound sugar I teaspoonful of baking powder 

% pound candied lemon peel, chopped fine 

I nutmeg ; little cinnamon 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt, then add all together. Then 
mix well with your hands, dry. When mixed, take large spoon and mix 
with cold water or milk just thick enough to spoon into the mold. Leave 
enough room for it to raise. Put it in boiling water, and do not let it stop 
boiling. Time, four to six hours. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 57 



Suet Pudding 

I cupful of beef suet i cupful of raisins 

1 cupful of sugar 1 1^ cupfuls of milk 

3 cupfuls of flour I teaspoonful of salt 

Yi teaspoonful of cinnamon ^ teaspoonful of cloves 

yl teaspoonful of soda. 

Chop the suet fine and seed the raisins. Add the salt, sugar and milk 
to the suet, mix well, adding the flour gradually. Mix in the spices, beat 
until light and smooth. Just before turning into the mold, add the 
soda dissolved in a little warm water, turn into a greased mold and steam 
three hours. 

Cocoanut Pudding 

2 cupfuls of cracker crumbs 3 eggs 

I cupful grated cocoanut I quart of milk 

i^ teaspoonful of vanilla ^ teaspoonful of salt 

I cupful of sugar. 

Beat the eggs light with the sugar. Scald the milk, add the eggs and 
sugar, and mix with the cocoanut and crumbs. Stir until smooth, add the 
salt and vanilla, put in a greased pudding dish and bake for three-quarters 
of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Fig Pudding 

I cupful of suet 2 cupfuls of bread crumbs 

I pound of figs I cupful of sugar 

3 eggs 2 cupfuls of milk. 

Wash, pick over the figs and chop. Chop the suet. Beat the eggs 
light without separating. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, turn into a 
well-greased mold, cover and boil three hours. Serve hot. 

Cherry Pudding 

1 tablespoonful of butter ^ cupful of sugar 

2 cupfuls of sour milk I quart of cherries 

1 egg ^/2 teaspoonful of soda 

2 cupfuls of flour, or enough to make batter as thick as for cake. 

Stone the cherries. Beat the egg light without separating, add the 
sugar gradually, and when light, the butter melted. Dissolve the soda in 
a little warm water, add to the sour milk, and add this to the batter alter- 
nately with the flour. Beat until light and smooth, add the cherries, and 
bake for three-quarters of an hour. 



58 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Rice Pudding 
There is no more delicious rice pudding than that termed, "Poor 
Man's Rice Pudding," and perhaps none more difficult to make. It must 
be baked long enough to be creamy and be taken from the oven before it 
has become watery. 

I quart of milk 2 tablespoonfuls of rice 

I tablespoonful of butter ^2 cupful of raisins 

Sweeten to taste, and add a delicate flavoring of cinnamon or nutmeg. 
Seed the raisins. Mix all the ingredients and bake from an hour to an 
hour and a half, stirring frequently. Do not let the pudding brown until 
it has thickened sufficiently. Cool before serving. 

COLD DESSERTS 

Bavarian Creams 
When and where it is possible to obtain cream there are no more 
easily made desserts than the many coming under this head. They are 
wholesome and appetizing, and their variations may be as many as there 
are fruits and flavorings to be used. In their simplest form the proportions 
always remain as given below : 

y2 box of gelatine J^ cupful of cold water 

I pint of cream y^ cupful of powdered sugar 

I teaspoonful of vanilla A pinch of salt. 

Cover the gelatine with water and let stand for one-half hour ; dissolve 
over hot water. Whip the cream to a stiff" froth, turn into a chilled basin, 
add the sugar, salt, vanilla, and gelatine. Stir gently, lifting from the 
bottom toward the top until the cream begins to form or solidify. When 
in lifting a spoonful it keeps its shape, it is ready to turn into the mold. 

Wet the mold with cold water, turn in the cream, and put away in a 
cold place to harden. In putting creams, jellies, etc., near the ice to 
harden, remember the coldest place is directly under the ice, not above or 
on it. 

With creams, the moisture from the melted ice is apt to sweat the 
mold and the cream will not turn out as well. A properly made Bavarian 
cream should be sufficiently sohdified to use within a half hour after making, 
although it is better to let it stand longer and become thoroughly chilled. 
When fruit juices are used it takes a longer time, and much longer for 
jellies where there is water to solidify. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 59 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream. — To the above recipe add one and 
one-half ounces of chocolate or cocoa, melted over hot water and dissolved 
in a little milk ; add this to the mixture before the gelatine is added. 

Coffee Bavarian Cream. — To the above recipe add one-fourth of a 
cuj)ful of very clear, strong coffee, and one and one-half cupfuls of pul- 
verized sugar in the place of the quantity given. 

Fruit Bavarian Cream 

Put the fruit, v^^hether canned or fresh, through the fruit press, as this 
separates the juice and seeds without straining. In using canned or pre- 
served fruits, be careful as to the proportion of sugar, for if the fruit be rich 
enough no additional sweetness will be required. 

2 cupfuls of fruit juice ^ box of gelatine 

yi cupful of cold water i pint of cream 

I tablespoonful of sherry, or 
I teaspoonful of lemon juice mixed with one tablespoonful of orange juice 
Sweeten to taste. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it soak for a half-hour; 
dissolve over hot water. Add the gelatine, sugar and flavoring to the fruit 
juice, and stir until it begins to thicken. Add the cream, whipped to a stiff 
froth, and mix thoroughly, but without beating. Turn into a mold previ- 
ously wet with cold water, and put away to harden before serving. 

If the fruit juice be added to the cream before it has begun to thicken 
it is almost impossible to keep it from settling. Strawberries, raspberries, 
pineapple, peaches, apricots and oranges are the fruits generally used. 

To the plain Bavarian cream may be added candied fruits cut in 
pieces, various cordials, liquors, wines and fruit syrups to vary the kind and 
flavorings. 

Italian Creams 
y^ box of gelatine y^ cupful of cold water 

I pint of milk y^ cupful of sugar 

3 eggs. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let soak for half an hour ; dis- 
solve over hot water. Scald the milk. Beat the yolks of the eggs with 
the sugar and add to the milk. Stir until the custard thickens. Add the 
gelatine, take from the fire, and as soon as it begins to form, stir in the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff, dry froth. Stir until thoroughly mixed 
and turn into a mold, previously wet with cold water, to solidify. 



60 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



This recipe may be varied in exactly the same manner as the Bavarian 
creams. 

For Chocolate Italian Cream, add one ounce of chocolate or 
cocoa melted over hot water. 

P'or Coffee Italian Cream, add one-fourth of a cupful of clear 
coffee. Sweeten to taste. 

For Fruit Italian Cream, one and one-half cupfuls of fruit juice 
may be added. 

The Enterprise 

Fruit, Wine and Jelly Press 

J[^=" TINNED °^!8( 




No. 34, $3.00 



The illustration represents the Combination Fruit Press in operation. 
Its principle is very simple, it is easily operated and saves rehandling, as 
it extracts the juice and ejects the skins and seeds in one operation. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 61 

It may be used for many purposes, such as making wines, jellies and 
fruit butters from grapes, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, goose- 
berries, currants, quinces, pineapples, etc. 

The dryness of pulp or refuse may be regulated by means of the thumb 
screw at the outlet. 

When ready to use, loosen the brass adjusting screw (marked A), at 
the end of the cylinder, so that the opening is free. Begin to press the 
fruit by turning the crank and as the pulp reaches this opening, slowly 
turn or adjust the screw until the pulp is of the dryness desired. 

When using grapes or currants it is not necessary to stem them, and 
for the grapes it is advisable not to do so. 

After using the press, wash with clear hot water and a brush, wipe 
and dj-y thoroughly. 



JELLIES 



An almost endless variety of attractive desserts may be made with 
various flavors, colors and combinations of jellies. Certain points in the 
making being always observed, recipes may be varied at will with pleasing 
and artistic results. 

Jellies should be clear, brilliant and made with sufficient gelatine to 
keep their form only. No matter how well flavored, if a jelly be solid and 
stiff it is not good. Gelatine should always soak in cold water away from 
the heat, the proportion of water being easily remembered, as it is the 
same as the gelatine. To one-fourth of a box take one-fourth of a cup; 
to one-half of a box, one-half of a cup, and to one box, one cup. Let it 
soak fully one-half of an hour, and with large quantities one hour. In 
summer more gelatine will be required to solidify a given amount of liquid 
than in winter, and some fruit juices take more than others. Experience is 
the best recipe for perfect jellies. 

Lemon Jelly 

Yi box of gelatine ^ cup of cold water 

2 cupfuls of boiling water i cupful of sugar 

^ cupful of lemon juice I tablespoonful of sherry 

^ of a cupful of orange juice. 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it stand for half an hour. 
Pour over it the boiling water, add the sugar and stir until the gelatine and 



62 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

sugar are dissolved. Add the lemon and orange juice and the wine ; 
strain through a cloth, or filter paper if necessary. Turn into a mold 
previously wet with cold water and put away to harden. 

In making gelatine jellies a blending of flavors is usually more 
acceptable than to use a single one. A wine jelly should have orange and 
lemon juice in its composition, the flavor of the wine predominating. In 
orange jelly, the orange flavor should be strongest, and so on. 

Strawberry, raspberry, sherry, pineapple and quince jelly all can be 
made from the above recipe, modifying the amount of ingredients accord- 
ingly. Cherries and pineapple will take more gelatine and no lemon 
juice, or the jelly will be too acid. Strawberries need a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice only, while raspberries and quinces require two. Blend the 
flavors and sweeten to taste, using the proportions of liquid and gelatine 
given for lemon jelly. 

Coffee Jelly 

y^ box of gelatine yi cupful of cold water 

2 cupfuls of boiling water I cupful of sugar 

34^ cupful of clear, strong coff"ee. 

Cover the gelatine with the cold water and let it stand for half an 
hour; dissolve in the hot water; add the sugar and coffee. Stir until the 
sugar is dissolved, and strain. Turn into a mold previously wet with cold 
water, and when solidified serve with whipped cream. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



63 



The Enterprise | l^^^,^^ l^^ 

Ice Shredder I £°¥Se 




No* 33— B^^Tinned-^^a 
No* 34 — Nickel Plated, 



60 cents 
$1.25 



OUR ICE SHREDDER is operated by simply drawing the blade 
over a piece of ice, the pressure applied producing fine or coarse 
pieces, as desired. No necessity for taking the ice out of the 
refrigerator, as the cup can be filled from the side, end or top of a cake 
of ice without disturbing anything or wetting the hands Its use will 
be appreciated for Fruits, Drinks, Oysters and Clams on half-shell, Olives, 
Celery. Radishes, Iced Tea, Sliced Tomatoes, etc., and many purposes m 
the sick- room. 

FROZEN DESSERTS 



ICE CREAMS 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

I quart of cream i cupful of granulated sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Scald half the cream, add the sugar, and cook, stirring continually for 
ten minutes. Before taking from the fire the cream should look thin and 
blue. Take from the fire, add the remainder of the cream, and cool. 
When ready to freeze add the vanilla. 

All Philadelphia creams are begun in precisely this manner, the fruit 



64 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

or fruit flavoring being added to the cream after it is partly or wholly- 
frozen. Fruit juices extracted by means of a press are better to use than 
the crushed fruits, as the latter often form little frozen balls in the cream 
instead of blending properly. When the juices only are added, it should 
be done when the cream begins to thicken in the Freezer. When crushed 
or candied fruits are used they should be beaten in with a wooden spoon as 
soon as the freezing is finished. 

Neapolitan Cream 

1 quart of milk 2 eggs 

2 cupfuls of sugar I tablespoonful of corn-starch 
I pint of cream I tablespoonful of vanilla. 

Scald the milk. Beat the eggs light without separating, add the 
sugar and beat until creamy. Mix with the corn-starch, turn into the 
scalded milk and cook unil it is thick. The custard should not only be 
thick and smooth, but the corn-starch must be thoroughly cooked to avoid 
the ravVj unpleasant taste so often found in custard creams. Take from the 
fire and cool ; when ready to freeze, add the cream, whipped, and the 
flavoring. Freeze and pack. 

Fruit Ice Cream 

Put the berries through the Press and use in the propoition of one cup- 
ful of juice to every quart of cream or custard. Sweeten to taste. 
Either canned or fresh fruit may be used, such as peaches, strawberries, 
raspberries, pineapples, apricots, etc. 

All fruit creams or any frozen mixture in which a variety of flavors 
are u=;ed must stand to ripen and blend before serving. From two to four 
hours is the usual time required. 

Macaroon, almond, walnut, cocoanut or brown bread ice creams are 
made with the proi)ortions of two cups of any of the above to one quart 
of cream. 

The macaroons and brown bread should be stale and pulverized by 
putting through the Meat Chopper. The nuts may be chopped in the same 
manner. 

"Water Ices and Sherbets 

These are made with fruit juices, sugar and water, sherbets having 
more body than ices. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 65 

Strawberry "Water Ice 

I quart of water 2 cupfuls of sugar 

i^ cupfuls of strawberry juice. 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan over the fire and stir until the 
sugar is dissolved. Boil, without stirring, for ten minutes ; add the fruit 
juice ; take from the fire, strain and cool. Freeze when cold. 

Any fruit ice may be made in the same manner and with the same pro- 
portions. With the use cf the Fruit Press to extract the juice, all fruit ices 
become easy to make, and cherry ice, which is most delicious, becomes a 
possibility. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

2 cupfuls of water 2 cupfuls of sugar 

I tablespoonful of gelatine 

I pint of fresh, grated pineapple put through the Press. 

Cover the gelatine with one tablespoonful of cold water and let it stand 
for one-half hour ; dissolve over hot water. Boil the sugar and water 
together for ten minutes, add the fruit juice and gelatine, and strain. Cool 
and freeze 

The proportion of water to fruit juice is smaller in sherbets than in 
water ices, and the addition of the gelatine gives a light and smooth con- 
sistency not desired in an ice. Any fruit juice may be used in making a 
sherbet with the above proportions ; strawberry, raspberry, pineapple and 
orange juices being those most generally preferred. The addition of 
liquors, such as cura<;oa, maraschino, etc., give special flavors. 

Pineapple Souffle 

I cupful of sugar 2 eggs 

I cupful of water I pint of pineapple juice. 

Beat the eggs with the sugar until very light, add the water and stir 
over the fire in a farina boiler until it forms a custard. Take from the fire 
and beat until it cools, adding the pineapple juice gradually. Turn into 
a Freezer and freeze. Pack and let stand two hours or more before 
serving. 



g(J THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

FREEZING 

Freezing Cream 

In the first place get a good Freezer. The proportion of salt and ice 
should be two-thirds ice to one-third salt, a four-quart Freezer requiring 
about ten pounds of ice and two pounds of salt for freezing. The ice 
should be chopped or shaved fine and the salt should be the coarse rock 
salt. Mix the salt and ice and pack the Freezer. Do not turn in the 
cream until the Freezer is packed, for if put in the can and then packed it 
begins to freeze at the bottom before the top is chilled, making it harder 
to freeze and less apt to be smooth. As soon as the mixture is turned into 
the can, begin to turn the crank slowly. As it begins to thicken, turn more 
rapidly, but always steadily. The graining of ice-cream often comes from 
the crank being turned too rapidly at first or interruptions occurring in the 
freezing. Take pains to see that it is frozen slowly but steadily. When 
thick, beat hard for two minutes. Take off the crossbar, remove the lid and 
dasher, pack the ice cream, replace the lid, closing the hole with a cork. 
Draw the water from the pail and repack with salt and ice. The ice for 
packing should be coarsely chopped, and one-half less sa't should be used 
than for freezing. 

Freezing Sherbets and "Water Ices 

Follow the directions for freezing cream with sherbets, except that it 
is not necessary to turn the crank until the sherbet begins to freeze. Then 
turn steadily until it is frozen ; beat and pack as directed above. 

Water Ices after being turned into the Freezer may be left without 
turning until they begin to freeze — there is no use in turning water — then 
turn the crank every five or six minutes for one minute. When sufficiently 
frozen, pack and leave standing to ripen. When liquors of any kind are 
added to the water ices or sherbets it must be remembered that they do not 
freeze, so the ice will be much more liquid than when fruit juice alone is 
used. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 67 

BEVERAGES 

In their natural order these may be divided into Syrups, Cordials 
Shrubs and Wines. A simple syrup is the basis;of many things beside cor- 
dials, and consists simply of equal quantities of sugar and water boiled to 
a syrup. Put the sugar over the fire in cold water, for if the sugar be 
stirred after the water boils it will grain. When put in cold water it may 
be stirred until the sugar dissolves before the water has reached the boiling 
point. When making to use as a driaik, the syrup must be cleared. After 
it has come to a boil, for every three pounds of sugar used take the beaten 
white of one egg, mix with one-half cupful of cold water and add to the 
sugar and water. Let it come to a boil, put on the back part of ihe stove 
until the scum has risen, remove this carefully and boil about ten minutes 
or until a syrup is formed, 

SYRUPS 

Strawberry Syrup 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar 2 cupfuls of cold water 

2 cupfuls ot t-trawberry juice. 

Put the strawberries through the Press and strain the juice. Boil the 
sugar and water as directed, add the strawberry juice, simmer for twenty 
minutes, or until a thick syrup is formed. Seal when hot. Serve with 
shaved ice, thinning with cold water to taste. 

Raspberry, cherry, pineapple and blackberry syrup may be made in 
the same manner. 

CORDIALS 

These are syrups made of fruit juices, spiced and brandied. 
To one quart of fruit juice extracted by the fruit press take 
2 teaspoonfuls of ground cloves 4 teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon 
I teaspoonful of mace I teaspoonful of allspice 

I quart of syrup, made as directed. 

Add the fruit juice and spices to the syrup, and boil as directed in the 
recipe for raspberry syrup. When clear and of the proper consistency, 
take from the fire and cool. When cool, add one pint of brandy 
for every quart of fmit juice used ; strain through a muslin ha^, bottle 
and cork. 

Blackberries make one of the best of cordials. 



63 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

SHRUBS 

These are syrups made of fruit juice and vinegar, and while the most 
common is made of raspberries, cherries, currants or pineapples make 
delicious shrubs. 

Raspberry Shrub 

For every cupful of fruit juice take one-half cupful of cider vinegar 
and two cupfuls of sugar. Put the fruit juice, sugar and vinegar over the 
fire, stir until the sugar dissolves, and boil to a thick syrup. Skim, if 
necessiry, strain and bottle. 

All fruit juices are used in the same manner. When served, allow 
one-fourth cupful of syrup to three-fourths cupful of ice water. Should the 
syrup be too thin, do not adhere to this proportion of water. Taste is the 
best guide. 

WINES 

Wine is a cold syrup fermented. 

Currant "Wine 

2 quarts of currant juice I quart of water 

3)^ pounds of sugar. 

Extract the juice from the currants by means of the Fruit Press. Stir 
the juice, sugar and water together until the sugar is dissolved. Putin 
an open jar and let it stand in a cool place for three or four weeks, or until 
it stops fermenting. Draw off the wine carefully, bottle and cork. 

Blackberry Wine 

2 quarts of juice I pint of water 

2 pounds of sugar 

Press the juice from the fruit, strain, and let it stand thirty-six hours. 
Add the water and sugar ; stir until the latter is dissolved. Let this stand 
twenty-four hours; skim, strain and put in a cask. After eight months 
draw off and bottle. 

Grape "Wine 

Extract the juice from the grapes by means of the Fruit Press, strain, 
and let it stand until it begins to ferment. To every four quarts of juice 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



69 



take one quart of water and three pounds of sugar. Mix and let ferment 
seven days, skimming each day. Put in a cask ; leave open twenty-fuur 
hours. Bottle and seal after five months. 



Enterprise Spice Mifls 





No. 


00, $t.25 


Weight 
Height 


. . . 6 lbs. 
. . 9 inches 



No. 0, 


$t.50 


Weight . 


. . 6 lbs. 


Height . 


11)4 inches 



No. oo is a Side Mill, and is intended to be screwed to the vail, 
dresser or any other convenient place in the kitchen. 
No. o can be clamped to a table or bench. 



The saving housekeeper will use a Spice Mill for many reasons. 
Whole spices are not often found adulterated ; when ground spices are pur- 
chased, one takes her chances. Ground spices lose their strength, just as 
coffee does. Nos. o and oo are the proper sizes to select for the home, 
and the fine or coarse grinding may be regulated as in the Coffee Mill — 
by means of the thumb-screw. 



70 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



RELISHES 

Citron Preserve 
3 pounds of citron 3 pounds of sugar 

2 lemons j/s pound of ginger root. 

Pare and slice the citron. Extract the juice from the lemons and cut 
them in slices. Bruise the ginger root slightly, tie it in a muslin cloth 
and cover with three pints of water. Add the slices of lemon and boil 
until the water is highly flavored ; strain, saving all the water. Add to 
this the sugar and juice of the lemons, stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
boil and skim until clear. Add the citron and boil until the slices are 
transparent, but not too soft to keep their shape. Put them carefully in 
glass jars, pour the syrup over them, and seal while hot. 

Grape Catsup 

5 pounds of ripe grapes 2 cupfuls of vinegar 

2^ pounds of brown sugar 2 teaspoonfuls of salt 

I tablespoonful of pepper 2 blades of mace 

I tablespoonful each of whole cloves, cinnamon and allspice. 

Put the grapes through the Press, add the sugar, vinegar, salt and 
spices. Boil until thick as ordinary catsup, remove the whole spices, 
and bottle while hot. 

Apple Butter 

Pare and core the apples, cut in pieces and put through the press. 
To every pint of apple pulp take one quart of new sweet cider. Cider 
not more than two days old will make the best apple butter, used with 
tart apples. Boil the cider down one-half; then measure, using in the 
proportion given above. Add the apple pulp and cook very slowly, 
stirring often. When it begins to thicken, sweeten to taste with brown 
sugar. Stir until the sugar is entirely dissolved ; cook until the butter is 
the desired consistency — that of soft jam ; pack in jars or tumblers while 
hot, and keep in a cool place. 

If preferred spiced, allow the following quantities : To every five 
quarts of apple pulp, one teaspoonful each of ground cloves, allspice and 
cinnamon. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 7X 

Peach Butter 
To every pound of peaches, weighed after peeling and stoning, allow 
one-half pound of sugar. Pare and stone the peaches, which should be 
very ripe and mellow ; cut in pieces and put through the press. Put over 
the fire in a porcelain kettle; let the pulp heat slowly and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until it is of the consistency of marmalade. Add the sugar, 
siir until it is dissolved, and cook rapidly for fifteen minutes. Place the 
iNCttle on the back part of the stove, where the butter will not become 
cooled until it is quite solid. Pack in jars or tumblers while hot. 

Currant Jelly 

To make good jelly, currants must be picked when they are just ripe 
and just right. Wash the currants in clear cold water, removing leaves, 
twigs, etc., but do not stem. To ten pounds of currants take one pint of 
water, and put over the fire in a preserve kettle. Stir until they are 
heated through, breaking the skins and partially mashing them. Take 
from the fire, put through the press without stemming and strain the 
expressed juice through a jelly bag. For every pint of juice take a pound 
of the best granulated sugar ; add to the cold juice and put over the fire. 
Stir only until the sugar dissolves, for if stirred after it begins to boil it 
toughens the jelly. Boil twenty minutes, skimming carefully when neces- 
sary. Stand the tumblers on cloths wet in cold water, fill to the brim 
with the hot jelly, and let them stand from thirty-six to forty-eight hours 
before covering. 

Quince Jelly- 
Wipe the fruit and remove the stems. Cut out any unsound parts and 
cut the fruit in pieces. It is not necessary to core or peel when the Fruit 
Press is used, as this expels the coarse portion at the same time it extracts 
the juice. Both the seeds and skin contain a large amount of gelatinous 
matter which aids in making the jelly. Strain the juice, measure, and to 
every pint take a pound of the best granulated sugar. Boil the juice 
twenty minutes, skimming when necessary. Add the sugar, stir until it is 
dissolved, and boil until the juice jellies. 

Crab Apple Jelly 

Follow the recipe for Quince Jelly. 



72 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Grape Jelly 

Select the fruit when not fully ripe. Wash, drain and put in the pre- 
serving kettle without any water. Proceed and finish as directed lor Cur- 
rant Jelly. 

Blackberries and huckleberries make delicious meat jellies, following 
the directions given for Grape Jelly. 

CHOPPED PICKLES 

Yi peck of green tomatoes y^ peck of small onions 

1 cupful of salt 3 quarts of vinegar 

2 pounds of sugar ^ pound of white mustard 

2 tablespoonfuls each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, ginger and celery seed 
^ teaspoonful of red pepper. 

Slice and chop the onions and tomatoes, cover with the salt and let 
them stand over night. In the morning drain thoroughly, put in a sauce- 
pan, cover with one quart of the vinegar and boil fifteen minutes. Drain 
and put the sugar, mustard, pepper and spices in the remaining two quarts 
of vinegar over the fire. As soon as the vinegar boils add the chopped 
tomatoes and onions, and boil ten minutes. Take from the fire and put in 
glass jars while hot. The quantities given above will make six quarts. 



CHILI SAUCE 

8 quarts of ripe tomatoes i ^ quarts of vinegar 

I pound of brown sugar I quart of small onions 

I cupful of salt Y cupful of horse radish 

I ounce of cloves i ounce of celery seed 

I ounce of cinnamon i ounce of allspice 

I teaspoonful of ground mustard I teaspoonful of black pepper 
I red pepper. 

The tomatoes should be measured after being peeled and chopped. 
Put them in a saucepan over the fire and simmer one hour. Chop the 
onions, grate the horse radish and grind the spices. Mix all the ingredi- 
ents given with the tomatoes, simmer for one hour and seal while hot in 
large-necked bottles. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 73 



SUPPER 

The majority of daily menus which appear seem designed for break- 
fast, luncheon and dinner, to the utter neglect of the old-fashioned supper. 
Yet there are many homes where the evening dinner is undesirable or 
unknown, and for these are given the following suggestions : Most of the 
r'-cipes given in the menus will be found under the dishes for luncheon, 
for the two meals are practically interchangeable. Except in the heat of 
summer, a hot dish should always be served for supper, as at the 
close of the day of work, with a long night's fast before one, a cold meal 
does not offer sufficient nourishment. 

Soups are rarely served, the only exceptions being oyster stew, clam 
broth or chowder, etc. Shell fish served raw, or cooked in any form, make 
most acceptable supper dishes in their season. Small fish are served 
broiled or fried, but larger ones are only used in made-over dishes, such 
as scallops, farcies, cutlets, etc. Broiled steaks or chops are occasionally 
acceptable when a very hearty supper is required, but made-over meat 
dishes, hamburg steaks, cannelons, etc., are usually better and in many 
ways nicer. Potatoes, rice, hominy and tomatoes in special forms, such as 
croquettes, scallops, or with the last named broiled, may be used ; other 
vegetables rarely, if ever. 

Eggs, salads and sandwiches in any form ; hot breads, griddle cakes 
and waffles, all these belong to supper even if " digestion doth notwsAi on 
appetite," in the case of some of the aforementioned. Gelatine jellies, 
canned, preserved and fresh fruits have a special place. 

Different parts of the country have what might be termed localisms 'v\ 
suppers such as the New England supper of baked beans and brown bread ; 
the Rhode Island johnny cake, the southern hoe cakes, etc. Each section 
of the country has its own methods and markets ; each family its special 
requirements, and no writer or teacher can make bills of fare from which 
there will be no deviating; they can only " lend a hand." 

MENUS FOR SUPPER 

Spring 

Creamed Salmon Olives 

Parker House Rolls 

Baked Apples Cake 

Chocolate 



74 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



Stuffed Eggs Creamed Potatoes 

Finger Rolls 
Strawberries Sponge Drop Cakes 

Shrimp Salad Saratoga Potatoes 

Brown Bread and Butter Sandwiches Coffee 

Lemon Jelly Wafers 

Summer 

Chicken a la Terrapin Julienne Potatoes 

Tea Biscuit Raspberry Shrub 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 

Cake 

Steamed Clams, Butter Sauce 

Veal Loaf Spiced Currants 

Cake Iced Tea 

Orange Sherbet 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Cookies Iced Cocoa 

Autumn 

Corn Fritters 

Potato Salad Rolls 

Coffee 

Panned Oysters 

Boston Baked Beans Brown Bread 

Citron Preserves Cake 

Broiled Tomatoes Potato Croquettes 

Peach Shortcake 

Chocolate 

Winter 

Baked Hash Chili Sauce 
Waffles 
Coffee 

Lobster Cutlets, Cream Sauce 

Potato Puff Stuffed Olives 

Rhode Island Johnny Cake 

Chocolate 

Boudins, Mushroom Sauce 

Brown Bread and Butter Coffee 

Preserves Cake 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



75 



The Enterprise 

Meat Juice Extractor 



^es-TINNED-^®* 




No* 2i, $2.50 
Directions sent with each machine 

There is no one thing which, in cases of protracted illness or in imper- 
fect nutrition, has to be served more often than beef juice. Beef juice 
is not beef tea, for the latter is weakened by the admixture of water, while 
the former is the pure and simple juice of the beef — nourishment in one of 
its most concentrated forms. In many homes, when sickness comes, much 
material and time are wasted by the primitive methods of extracting the 
beef juice needed. In such cases the possession of a Meat Juice Extractor 
is an economy, even could it be used for the meat alone. It can be used 
however, in extracting fruit juices in small quantities, sufficient for invalid 
and convalescent dishes. 



76 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Beef Juice 

Take a thick (i^ inches) cut of steak from the round and free it 
fiom all fat and membrane. Broil it over hot coals from six to eight min- 
utes, long enough to heat it through and start the juices. Cut it in strips 
and pass it through the Meat Juice Extractor. Season the extracted juice 
with salt and serve at once. If required re-warmed at any time, heat in 
the farina boiler, allowing the water in the outer kettle to simmer only, as 
the beef juice is spoiled for the invalid if the albumen be coagulated. 

The dryness of the pulp is regulated by the thumb-screw (seen at the 
left end or outlet of the cylinder in the cut). The yield of juice should be 
about six ounces from one pound of round steak. 

When the juice has been extracted, take the machine apart, wash with 
a brush in clear, hot water, wipe and thorotighly dry over the range. Too 
much care cannot be exercised in the preparation of infants' and invalids' 
food, and this must begin and end with the care of the utensils employed 
in their preparation. 

Fruit Juices for Luncheon or the Invalid 

During the summer season, when to eat at all in the middle of the day 
seems a burden, nothing is more refreshing for a first course for lunch than 
iced fruit juices. By means of the Fruit Press the juices may be extracted 
easily and quickly and often will not need straining. The juices may be 
slightly thickened with arrow root or served sweetened and iced alone. If 
thickened, for ever)- quart of juice take two teaspoonfuls of arrow root, 
moisten the arrow root in a little cold water, and add to the fruit juice as 
soon as the latter is heated. Cook until clear, add sugar to taste — one-half 
cupful is the usual amount, except in the case of very acid fruits, 
and as soon as the sugar dissolves strain into a bowl. Thoroughly chill; 
serve in sherbet glasses or bouillon cups with shaved ice. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 77 

THE CARE OF UTENSILS 

Nothing more quickly defines the cook than the care taken of his 
or her utensils, for a good workman loves and cares for his tools. There 
are keepers of stables who abuse their horses, and there are people who 
even abuse their own children, as well as cooks who abuse the tools 
provided for them that their labors may be more easily performed. 

This, however, is a poor argument against a well outfitted kitchen, 
fur the inappreciative cook is usually the unskilled one, and the one 
who leaves a meat chopper uncleaned will generally do the same with a 
tin pan. 

Such utensils as turn wiih cranks and have oil in their gearings 
should not be left in water, as the oil is thus washed out and the utensil 
quickly spoiled. Clean well with clear, hot water and a brush immediately 
after using and dry thoroughly before putting away. 

Tins should be well dried before putting them away, or they will 
rust. 

Do not put pans and kettles partly filled with water on the stove to 
soak, as it only makes them more difficult to clean. Fill them with cold 
water and soak away from the heat. 

Ne-^'er place kitchen knives and forks in water. Wash them thor- 
oughly with the dish cloth in hot suds, then polish and rub them dry. 

Sieves should not be washed with soap, but cleaned with a brush and 
clear water, using soda if necessary. 

The outside of all pans, saucepans, in fact all utensils, should be 
cleaned with as much care as the inside. Keep things clean— do not get 
them so once a week. 

Use clean, hot, soapy water, changing as soon as it becomes greasy; 
wash and rinse the dish towels after each using ; use strong linen cloths 
for dish washing, and keep the drain pipe clean, flushing it often with 
hot suds and soda water. 

Certain instructions concerning the various machines mentioned in 
(he book will be found under the different headings and may prove 
of assistance to the housekeeper or cook who has not had opportunity to 
learn facts concerning their care. 

In any and all of the machines the various parts are interchange- 
able and may be replaced at small cost, i. e., if the crank of the Meat 



78 THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 

Chopper, the thumb or feed screw, or the knife is lost or injured the 
machine is not useless nor does an entire new one have to be purchased. 
Each machine has a number, and when a certain part is lost or broken 
write to the Enterprise Manufacturing Company of Pennsylvania, Third 
and Dauphin Streets, Philadelphia, and state the number of the machine 
and the part desired. 



SUGGESTIONS 

Cracker or bread cmmbs used in covering the tops of scallops, etc., 
should be weU greased in melted butter; this making a better covering 
than the dry crumbs dotted with butter aad using less of the latter 
ingredient. 

Egg used for covering croquettes may be the whole egg or the white 
only — never the yolk alone. Beat the egg until broken, not until light ; 
add one tablespoon ful of water for each white or two tablespoonfuls for a 
whole egg. Mix well and use. 

Melted butter used for basting is used in the proportion of one table- 
spoonful of butter, melted, to one cupful of hot water. Keep hot while 
using. 

Bread crumbs should always be used for covering articles for frying, 
as cracker crumbs absorb the grease. 

All pieces of stale bread may be dried and put through the Meat 
Chopper. This makes them much finer and more even than rolling and 
takes not one-fourth as much time. 

All croquettes, cecils and meat balls, which are covered with bread 
crumbs, may be made the day before and fried for breakfast. The egg 
makes an air as well as grease proof covering. 

Chop suet in a cool place, sprinkling with flour to prevent its sticking 
together. 

Add a few drops of rose water to almonds to prevent their oiling 
when chopped. 

Raisins should be soaked in cold water before stoning. 



THE ENTERPRISING HOUSEKEEPER 



79 



Enterprise New Slaw Cutter 



NO. 94 

/KT-TINNED-^H 



Directions for thin 
or ttiicli slicing 

accompany 
eacli macliine 




For slicing Potatoes, 

Onions, Cabbage, 

Cucumbers, Citron, 

etc. 

Price, $3.00 



Its mode of operation is very simple. The article to 
be sliced being placed on the platform and fed or pushed 
against the Revolving Cylinder, which contains three knives. 



Enterprise Grater 




No. 93 

«®=-TINNED-=^^ 

The illustration shown 
represents our new Grater, which 
is especially adapted for grating 
Horse Radish, Cocoanut, etc., 
and can be utilized for many 
purposes. Its mode of operation 
- is very simple. The article to 
be grated being placed on the 
platform and fed or pushed 
against the Revolving Cylinder. 

Price, $3.00 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Apple Butter 70 

Beef Juice 7H 

Beef, Scalloped 39 

Beverages ........ 67 

Bouillon 34 

Boudins 40 

Breads and Cakes .... Jo 

Butter, Peach 71 

Canapes, Ham 42 

('are of Utensils 77 

Catsup, Grape 70 

Cecils, Mutton 21 

Cherry Stoners 51 

Chicken, Creamed .... 21 

Deviled 41 

Scalloped . . .• . 40 
i la Terrapin ... 41 

Salad 47 

Choppers. Meat, . 16, 17, 18 
(Mams, Deviled .'.... 36 

Clam Fritters 37 

Codfish Balls 23 

Coffee 13, 14 

Cold Desserts 58 

Cold Slaw 49 

Cordials 67 

Corn Bread 15 

Dodders ]5 

Fritters 44 

Corned Beef Hash .... 19 

Crabs, Deviled 37 

Cream, Bavarian .... 58 

Italian 59 

Neapolitan .... 64 
Croquettes, Meat .... 38 

Lamb 3^* 

Oyster 36 

Curry of Beef 40 

Chicken 41 

Lamb 40 

Mutton 40 

Veal 41 

Desserts, Cold 5^ 

Frozen 63 

Deviled Clams 36 

Crabs ."7 

H.im Sandwiches . 50 

Egg*, Boiled "26 

Poached 26 

S alloped 43 

Scrambled 27 

Stuffed . . . . 43 

Extractor, Meat Juice . . 75 

Fish Sandwich ,50 

Scalloped 38 

Freezing 66 

Fritters, Clam 37 

Corn 44 

Fruit Juice 76 

Froz-n Desserts <3 

riraham Gems 15 

Grater 79 



PAGE I 

Ham Patties 22 

Relish 42 

Toast 42 

and Egg^, Molded . 41 ! 

Hambug Steak 22 

Hash 19 

Baked 20 

Corned Beef. . . .19 

Fish 23 

Minced, on Toast . ]9 

New York . . . 19 

Ice Cream, Philadelpliia . 63 

Fruit 61 

Ice Shredder 63 

Jelly, Coffee 6'.^ 

Crab Apple .... 71 

Currant 71 

Grape 72 

Lemon 61 

Quince 71 

Juice, Beef 76 

Fruit 76 

lioaf. Veal 42 

Lobster, Creamed .... 37 

Cutlets 37 

Measuring, Table fur . . 28 
Meats, Breakfast .... 19 

Meat, Scalloped 39 

Meat Cakes 21 

Choppers . . 16, 17, 18 
Sandwiches .... 49 

Sausages 20 

Juice Extractor . . 75 
Menus, Breakfast . , 9, 10 

Luncheon 33 

Mills, Coffee 11, 12 ! 

Spice 69 

Mince I\Ieat .54 

Muffins, Rice 15 i 

Mutton Cecils 21 

Ragout 21 

Omelet, Parsley 27 ' 

Plain 27 I 

(}reen 27 

Ham 27 ! 

Oysters, Fried 3t) 

Paste, Plain .53 

Puff 52 

Pastry .52 

Pickles, Chopped . , . .72 

Pie, Cherry 54 j 

Cocoanut 53 j 

Raisin 54 

Pineapple 53 ! 

Potatoes, Baked 26 

Creamed 24 

Fried 25 

French. Fried . . 26 
Hashed Brow.a . . 24 
Lynnnaise .... 25 

Potato (."akes 25 

Puffs 25 



PAGF 

Preserve, Citron 70 

Pre'^s, Fruit, Wine and 

Jelly 60 

Pudding, Cherry 57 

Cocoanut 57 

Fig ;;? 

English Plum ... 56 

Rice 58 

Suet 57 

Ragouts 21 

Raisin Seeder 55 

Relishes 70 

Sad Irons, Family Outfit of 5 

Salad, Chicken 47 

Lettuce 48 

Lobster 48 

Macedoine .... 48 
Salad Dressing, Boiled . . 47 

French 47 

Mayonnaise .... 47 

Sandwiches, Cheese . . .50 

Deviled Ham ... 50 

Egg 50 

Fish 50 

Meat 49 

Sweet and Nut . . 50 

Sauce, Bechamel 45 

Brown 46 

Chili 72 

Mushroom . . .46 

Oyster 45 

White 45 

White, for Fish . . 45 

Sausages 22 

Meat 20 

Scrapple 23 

Sherbets, Freezing .... 66 
Sherbet, Pineapple .... 65 
Shrub, Raspberry .... 68 

Shredder, Ice 63 

Slaw Cutter 79 

Soup, Bisque of Oyster . 35 

Bouillon 34 

Puree of Clam . . 35 

Turkey 35 

Souffles 39 

Souffle, Potato 25 

Pineapple 65 

Suggestions 78 

Supper 73, 74 

Syrups 67 

Table for Measuring . . 29 
Time Required for Cook- 
ing 29, 30, 31 

Tomatoes, Stuffed .... -43 
Turkey, .Scalloped .... 40 

Veal Loaf 42 

Scalloped 39 

Water Ices 64 

Wine, Blackberry .... 6;^ 

Currant 68 

Grape 68 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 



u 



011 021 382 7 



